w « » « * T- " * » J ' '
<§ alette oim States, «*> Philadelphia Daily Advertiseh
,'.4
fiVMBEX 187 I. j
BOSTON, Septembers. an<
rfeteHbl" cmm 'l*"/rom the Boston"Marine Society mc
P't'B'DKNT of the United States, at c j e
ArfQuiney, with tbe following r
ADDRESS. ot
f/f^P^ E siryEN-r o/* i<w Umrto States «/" an
America.] <*i
fie ADDRESS of the B'osto* be
Marine Society, in the Stale of V
Maflachuletts. P r
T
AT & time* when the existence of p'
our independence it ft ruck at; the fove- I
itigfl rights of onr country violated, by the p'
refvfal tr> receive our Ambassadors, specially ar
co n)itiffio»ed as the ministers of explanation ni
jnd wcord; and this haughty and hofttle th
jfpjft, accompanied with the most indifcri- P'
finite fpiota'iohsort our commerce, ground- 12
e don their falfe contemptuous opinion, that ai
vr«are-a mercenary, dtfencelefs, and divided
ptople ; it furily become' the duty of every
citizen, and of incorporated bodies in par- g
liVu'ar, publickly to express sentiments, d
Viiich may convince the world, as well as ; c '
(he French nation, that tbey ind'gnantly ©
fcil, ilare res-nt, and hope to avenge the a
icjared and in fulled character of our com f'
1 cion country. f (
Although it is not for nations to com- a
jand, they certainly 0135' deserve fucccfs. b
Ilifi-arms of onr country have too recently P
with effeft refufed the claims of the firlt
maritime power the earth ever knew, for b
Irr for.s now meanly to Crouch to the ir.fa- f'
liable cupidity and distant dominant 11 of an y
insolent and inferior foe '
When friendfhip h'C'mcs insult, or is h
permitted oidy on eiclufive term", dictated a
and imposed by a corrupted and corrupting 1
£t)ver~ment, it is time to (hake ess such a t
debasing yoke. Better at once to commence f
generous enemies, than maintain a deceptive '
and precarious connexion with such itifidi- l
ous fr end".
Had the French people confined their (
efforts to the annihilatioo-of their monarchy ]
and alt its collateral props, a> dto the erec- 1
tkm of any other system of rule, the business '
!ind its local consequences ought tohatfe been, 1
feft to themselves. But when we find this 1
nation, after having completely attained fhs
profeffed objeft of their warfare, with savage
hostility, in many inftasces, and ill others,
artfully aiming ac the utter subversion of the
political, reli-ious, and fecial inftitution3 of
all other governments, which time, experi
ence, and even freedom, have fanftioned,
Jtey become the enemas c>f all mankind,
and ought to be opposed by every count, y
thw has any prettnfigns to principle, spirit,
or pa^iotifm.
afluate, aiid glow 7
tr "j f neceffat y. will nerve the arm, of the
tmafsof the f ree cnlightei ed citi
that compose the American nation;
\f*T w fc o pud rejoice that their beloved
WASHi*G r ° N has been by a
u 0 reads with equal step the htneft,
road, so ftriftly flowed
C'that abl ■ ttatefman.
£xten* e 39 commerce of me United
states !v become under a popular govern
ment, yfely admiuiftered, and distant as our
/ho res from the Euiopean continent,
wo^d< l wa 'l* are, confeffedly, our best de
fence You, fir, appear early and justly to
haveappreciated this system of protection.
Ma/y of this society have been engaged in
maritime warfare ; and when their country
a«ain calls 1 hey trttft, that under your pilot
%re, they stall net be four.d wanting,
A life likj yours, so long fucctfsful y em
ployed in public energy, and patriotic effed,
has now become an important objeft of pre
ferv.-.tion. May heaven preserve it with in
vigorated health; and a kind Providence
enable you to augment your well founded
claims to national gratitude, by a faithful,
firm discharge of the numerous duties, and
rromentous services, committed to you by
the conftitntion and councils of rtir country,
and in which Europe and the world, may
be so much intercfted.
Bi order an J in behalf rf the Itcftm Marine Society.
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
. Wm. Furnf.ss, Secretary.
To the Boston MARINE SOCIETY.
gentlemen,
I THANK yon for th : s refpeftful ad
dress. The existence of the independence
of any nation cannot be more grossly at
tacked, the sovereign rights of a country
cannot be more offenfivdy violated, than
fcy a refufal to receive Ambalfadois sent as
Mirftfters of explanation and tfoncord ;
efpeciaily if fnch refufal is accompanied with
public and notorious circumftanees of dtli
-berate indignity, insult ind contempt. In
d'feriminate (!efpohations on our commerce,
grounded on the contemptuous opinion
that we are a divided, defeneelefs and mer
cenary people, are not so egregious and ag
grata ted a provocation offered o a face ot a
whole nation as the former. I rejoice that
you indignantly feel; that you dare resent ;
a'-d that you hope to vindicate, the injured
and insulted character of out common ooun
tr _ when friendfhip becomes insult, or
is permitted only on terms, di&3ted ar.dim
-pofed, it becomes an intolerable yoke, and
it is time to (hake it off—Better at once to
become g*n«rous enemies than maintain ade-
Jufrvc and precarious comedian with such
insidious friends. Whatever pretexts the
French people, or a French Prince of the
blood with his train, or a combination of
families of the firft quality. With officers of
the army, had for theii efforts, for the an
mhifotion «f the monarchy. We ccrta.nly
far from being ur.d.r any obligation, had
no right or cxcufs iaterfere f«rf iheir
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 14, 1798:
ance. If, by the collateral props of the
monarchy, you mean the nobility and the
clergy, which has followed the annihilation
of them : All their r> venues have been feezed
and appropriated by anoiher prop of the old T
monarchy, the army;—and the nation is ni
become, a* all other nations of EumfH are la
Vcoming, if Fiench andfyftems, k
prevail, a congregation of soldiers and cerfu. fc
The French revolution has tverbem inborn- fa
prehenfibie to mc ; the ftibftance of all that b
I can understand of it, is, that'one of the I
pillars of the ancfent monarchy, that is the ir
armv, has fallen upon the other two of the ft
nobility ind clergy,broken them both down ; d
the building has fallen of courses- aitd this si
pillar is now the whole Edifice. The mili- L
tary serpent has that of Aaron I
a»d all the reft.
If the example should be followed thro' v
Europe, when the officers of the armies be- h
. gin to quarrel vtfith one another—five feun- b
, dred years more of Baroni wars, may fuc- £
1 i ceed. If the French, therefore, will be- v
• come the enemies of all mankind, by forcing
; all nations to follow their example, in the c
fubveifion of all the political, religious and v
social institutions, which time, experience j
. and freedom have fauflioned, they ought to
. be opposed by every country, that has any
j to principle, spirit, or patriot ism. j
I Floati: g batteries and wooden walls have <
r been my favourite system of warfare and de- I
_ fence for this country, for three and twenty
1 years. I have had very little fuccelsin ina- 1
king proselytes. At tbe present momsnt, ]
s however, Americans in cultivators I
J as well as merchants and mariners, begin to 1
t look to that source ofTecurity and pvotee
a tion ; and your 2ffiftanice will have great in
e fluence and effe<S, in extending the opinion
e in theory and iu introducing and establishing
j. the pradtice.
Your kind wishes for my life and health
r demand my most retpe.£if«l and affefli'>nate
y gratitude ; ai d the return of my sincere
prayers for ,the health and happiness
f s of the Marine Society at Boston, as well as
n for the security and prosperity of the mili
•g tary and commercial marine of the United
lf States, in which yours, is included.
•e JOHN ADAMS.,
s, s«ini:y, Sept. 7, 1798.
,f HARTFORD, September to,
i- From the BEE-, printed at -New-London, by
Charges Holt.
J " THE Editor lamcsts the disagreeable
y necessity he is under of informing his pat
t, rons, that in conficquence of the existence
of a malignant difordtr in this city, and
re Dartieularly in the neighborhood of his of
* r,^ A unc v/t tua nßiiuj Ocnig a*tcdQy fvne&s»j
the publicatiou of this paper is suspended
,j. for a short time. It will be resumed when
, ; ever the malady disappears ; and if it Ihoald
: d unhappily continue for a number of weeks,
a the office will be removed, and the paper
ft, published as usual.
sd [lt seems by the above paragraph, that the
Yellotu Fever does s me good, among the hn
-d mense mischief it occasions, It can kill the
11. Bee, at l ast for a little -while. The probabi.
ur Sty is, that it never will rise again ; and
it, when it has been deadfor three days, the same
| e - may be said of it, as was said of Lazarus—
to "By this time it stinke(h."\
ID.
; n LONDON. July 15.
ry It appears by our Scotch letters of yef
jt. terday, "that the fqwadron supposed to be
Dutch frigates cruizing off Shetland, and
m . which had created much alarm, has proved
ft, to be the Ruffian fleet under admiral Mack
re. aroff, which failed from Copenhagen on
in- the 24th ult to cruize in the NoMh Sea.
ice Capt. Milne, of La Pique, which was
l e d» l°ft in the late affair off 'he Saintes, was
ul, second lieutenant of the Blanche, when La
nd Pique struck to her early in the year 1795,
by in the Weft Indies. During the a6\ion all
ry, the Blanche's boats were (hot away, but es
iay soon as the Frenchman hawieldown his co
lours, Mr. Milne plunged into the sea, fol
ty. lowed by a Newfoundland dog Hill with
him, and boarded the prize, into which, in
recompence for his valor, lie was poftcd.
La Pique was a very old and crazy ship,
'Y. and her loss is to be estimated as li;tle more
than the value of her old iron,
id- The St. Florenzo and Triton frig'ter on
nee Thursday arr ved at Plymouth from the
at- Coast of France. Captfin Gote, of the
try Triton, about a fortnight ago saw 16 fail
lan of the line (two of which were three deck
as ers,) fifteen frigates and corvetts, in Brest
I— Road, with their fails bent, and apparent
ith ly ready for sea.
eli- Port/mouth. July 13.
In- I. have this morning been on board La
■ce, Seine French frigate, brought in here by the
o« Jason. She is one of the fineft vessels of
ler- her class I ever saw, much fliat
ag- tered by the aftion. All her mails were
f a shot away, also her rudder. To tbe ftmnps
hat of the former jury-masts are fattened ; and
nt ; the English flag is suspended over the Re
red publican colours from an ensign 11 iff. The
un- face of the figure head of La Pique is nail
er edoverthe figure head (avtoman) of the
im- prize, and makes a strange appearance,
and La Seine had 15 guns a fide on her gun
rto deck. Her captain who behaved most gal
de- lantly, filicited and obtained leave to go on
jcli shore in Ftancr, and returned punfltul to
the the time of his parole. He Is said to have
the killed 20 of his men and wounded several
1 of others, who would not stand to their guns.
lof La Seine is reported to have treasure on
an- board to a very corfiderable amount. The
lly, asfo«i was fought so cf fe to the shore, that
lad several of the Frenchmen cfcaped to the
sft' coast, which was crouded with fpeftators.
By John Fenno, M° : tic, Cbejnui Street.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL:
BOSTON, September 10.
Capt. G. Ropes, arrived at Salem, on
rtiurfday from St. Doming, ha* commu
licated to us the follow ng marine partial-,
ars, viz. "On the 2 9th'lflt. in lat. £O,
*?ng. 6y, w3i chafed all 'day by a fm II
"cliooncr, and the next day by a sloop and
[aid schooner, which I have ho doubt were y
both French privateers ; this information I
[am in hopes will ke of service to the com- \
manders of our (hips of war in bringing
feme of the rascals to the punishment they n
deserve. On the 31ft in lat. 34, long, 67, si
fa w a fleet of /hipping of upwards of 30
fail which appeared to be Handing 10 the N. J
East. I
" We had accounts at St. Domingo by a
veffelfrom St. Thomas,that Vi&or Ungues il
had declared war against the United States, J
by beat of drum ! also that the United
States frigate and an American 20 gun jhip f
were cruizing among the windward iflatids. J
" The general at Cape Francois, by pro
clamation, grants prote&ion to all American, 1
veffelj trading tolhe French port of Hif
paniola."
*
Capt- Benjamin Rice has obligingly com- |
jnunicated the following from Bourdeaux, (
dated June 6, 1798. Armed iliip Elizs
beth, Skinßer, from Isle of France ; (hip '
Fricndi, Christie from New-York for Ham
burg ; (hip Echo, Gibfon from Philadel
phia ; (hip Abigail, Rhea, from Havre ;
(hip AiiV and Mary, Beller, bound to Phi
ladelphia ; (hip Peggy, Rafer, from Philad. 1
(hip Theresa, Boyle, from Baltimore J brig
Hope, Wheelwright, of Portsmouth, for
N. York 4 brig Argo, Barnes of Bolton,
from Brest, bag Trifena, Griffin, of Phi
ladelphia from Corone ; brig Verms, Graf
-1 ton of Salem from Savannah ; brig Hazard
Dtummond of Boftofi for N. York j Hero,
Clark of Bolton ; Pilgrim, Peircs, Corone;
Sally Bulhur, Chi(holm from Savannah,
bound to'Condon on trial 5 (hip Jersey of
New-York from Charleston to Amflerdam
on trial ; brig , Lunt from Newburv
port for ftnt in yesterday by
the brig Tartar privateer ; (hip Commerce,
Defhon, from Savannah for London, con
demned , brig Polly, from Charleston for
London belonging to Boston, condemned;
with several others condemned whose names
could not be recollected.
NEW YORK, Sept. 13.
ARRIVED.
Sloop Charlotte, White, Bermuda 10
Aurora, Charleston 11
1 lit uug marjfj OIUUCI) rrwi
to Gibealter, was taken the lo'.h of -July, by
a French privateer, and carried into Ajge
ziras in Spain.
The (hip William and Henry was spoke
the 13th July, 40 days out from N. York,
was at St. Domingo about the 15th Aug.
By the Romeo, from Charleston, we
learn that the crt;w of the United States
Cutter Unanimity, refufes to go to sea with
their present captain, alledging that he is
deficient in courage, and hid mistreated fev.
eral of the crew.
- " WASHINGTON, Ken. Apguft tB.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman at Fort
Majfac, dated July-It.
" A gentleman has just arrived here from
Natchaa, who informs, that there is a strong
party there in favour of the French and
Spanifli governments —that all the talks
held with the Indians are in the name of
the French—that the presents to them the
laftfew months have been great—and that
a large part of the Cho&aw nation are de
cidedly in favour of them, and art ready to
take up arms to oppose us. In consequence
! of which, the commandant at Natchez has
j required a reinforcement. The Indian na
tions to the southward are full of French
and Spanifli emissaries.
" Zachariah Cox is eighteon miles above
t us, with three or four hundred rifle men,
and is preparing to descend the river. The
conjedhires with refpedl to his ohjeft are
[ various; but all seem to agree that his in
tentions are inimical to our government.
1 Perhaps I (hall give ycu news on this head
. that will surprize you, by the next oppor-
I (Unity." _
1 G/rmantoivn, September jl, 179®'
Mr, Fenno.
I Please to publish the following tick' 1 ts
- forSeleft and Common Councils, at the ap
preaching eleflion, and oblige one of y«ur
fellow.citizens.
1 SELECT COUNCIT.
; Godfrey Haga Thomas Willing, jun,
f Daniel Sir.i h Joseph Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL.
: Lawrence Herbert
s . Henry Drinker, jun.
1 Gideon H. Wells
Casper W. Marris
; Thomas P. Cope
George Penndck
; 'I homaa Parker
Michael Kepple
1 Joseph Hopkinfon
Kearney Wharton
1 Conrad Gerhard
» George Fox
; John Rugan
1 Edward Randolph
Malcolm M'Donnald
1 Joseph Nosth (Union Ireet)
; Levi Hollingfworth
t George Willing
; Edward Pennirg'oil.
Jonathan-Jonts,
Xlje <Sa;ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
______ A
FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER t4 .
•. Jc
DIED, on Monday tdfc, hi the 20th J 1
year of her agfc after 9 days fHn:fs, Mr-- B
Elizabeth Rigal, daughter of col. Frederick
Weyfeufeils, of New-Yprk.
ness of two days, Mr. Peter Armbrtwfter, E
fenlor.
—■—, Sama'day, of the prevailing fever,
Mr . Margaret Hart, wife of Mr John ™
Hart, of this city. ,
illncfs, Mrs. Helena Du'cin, wife of Mr.
Matthew Duncan of this city.
sickness, at Nefliamfcty, in Bucks county,
Mr. Isaac Duncan, as this city
I r , Wedntfday afternoon., Mr. Thos.
I White. Printer.
We hive to contradiS the article in onr
paper a few days ago, announcing the death
of Mr. Anthony Taylor, of the house of
Taylor and Newbold. Mr. Taylor is rtco- v
vering from his late dlnefs. t
Married, at Virginia, on
Thursday the 30th »!t, Mr. Henry Penn {
Wharton, of Philadelphia, to Mrs. Mary j
Curle : relidl of the late^Colonel Curie. {
DONATIONS,
Received at the encampment at Matter's j
place, for the use of the poor.
Sept. 13. ,
£rom Gen. Jacob Morgan, a load of Straw.
Arfthony Morris, Esq. a waggon load
of vegetables, colle&id in his neigh
bourhood, in Montgomery county. | j
Thomas Prior, two pair men's (hoes. ! ,
Win. Grubber, a free African, one 1
load straw.
John Intleep, T
Jona. Robeson, > Committe.
Isaac IV. Morris, j
Bitter herbs, particularly Centaury will
be very acceptable.
KJ- THE Committee are happy in hav
ing It in their power to inform those citi
zens who are not in a fituafion to provida
for themselves and are desirous to remove
, from 4he city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
, - L - «'| Mailer's Pbce, in the
, Northern Liberties where luch persons will
be furni(hed with comfortable apartments
and neceflary provisions during the present
. calamity.
DONATIONS,
, Received at the Tent.', near Sihuyliill, for tht
j use of the Poor^
1 September 13.
s A load of rye ilraw from Mr. Nathaniel .
Reece, Tinicurr..
Thirty bulhels potatoes from Mr. Nathan
Shepherd, in the neck.
Sixteen bu(heli potatoes, from the widovvl
M.rthall, Glocefter PcFnt.
1 Sixty two hurdles straw, from Mr. Joseph
Joins, [A Black Man.) Kingfefling.
! By o derof the Ci-ramiitee.
? PETER MEIRCKEN,
Sept. 14. Chairman.
Tobias Lear, Esq. is appointed Secre
e tary to General Waftiington, with the rank
1 of C^lonel
-0 The poor Dutch are dellined to fuffer
e severely for their abject submission, or filly
s fraternization, with the haughty plundering
republicans of France. Another change of
diftators is effected—i new tell of attach
ment to invented,
e and a wide door opened for further coniil •
'' cations, oppreflion and venaliiy.
e It is thus, that *tl nations, placed within
e the vortex of the French government, are
'* expo fed to fucgeffive revolutions, which they
'• must wade through before they'can obtain a
couuter revolution in the true fer.fe of the
" word : namely a revolution which restores
'to them a permanent and regular govern
ment, ooder which they; may hope to enjoy
rcpofe from the endleiji alarms and disorders
ts produced by anarchy and innovation.
5 IN. r. d. jd*.~\
ir
" Bleffedbe God, fays a pious clergyman
in Savannah to his flock, America c.in nev
er despond, or fuppofc that flie is altogether
without th« proteftion of I'rovidence while
it pleases the I.ord of Hoftslo (hicld our
national rights and sovereignty by a Hack
ney, a Marfliall. and a Gerry, to cAnduft
our negotiations, acd support our interell
ai d honor abrond ,• by •> Wafhingtoti, the
father of his country, at the head of an ar
my of heroet, to defend its invaded rights ;
and an Adams to prelide over the united
wisdom and patriotifin of the Union, vq
(land at the helm, and wiicn the blast of
war blows in our ears, to gnid« the whirl
wind and direst the florm."
The Count de Vergennes, after the A
merican war, said " We have just cut off
one nrm from the Envli(h, we will now cut
ess the other"—the East Irdie*. Buona
parte seems desirous of this honor. But we
fear this young hero will in the attempt bu
ry his European laursli in the fandy_deferts
of Alia.
[Volume XIV.
city Hospital report;
foK ssrrsAtss* ij.
. admitted, •
Anne Bouchmau William Smith
J'.hn Cree.ttet Chril. Tomig
Philip Lawner Pa.ly H lledlea
John M'Laughlin ° FrMtci Qjrrctt .
John CoU' ~ !#.■*' MalcoimM'Oouald
Betsey Jenkins. r
Dl£D. .
Polly Smith Francis Garrett
Betsey Lnwden Martha Kinfingcr
Elizabeth Lan Jus Thomas French
Wm. Staunton Rebecca Peeten
D ISCH A R GED-CW.
Msry M'Pherfon—Win. Bigham—Ann
Holland.
Regaining in the Hospital ill, of whom
35 are on tbL- recovery.
Interred in the Ho pita! Ground,
From City "Holpiul 8
City and Lib.rtiea 25
| To»<i 33
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
By oidcr of the Bond cf M.wagers.
WILLIAM TONES, President.
Attcll—TihothV Pa'xson, Clerk.
N tNETY-TWO. new caftiof the pre
vailinpfrver, reported by 20 Phyficiaus, for
the last 24 huurs.
BURIALS in th<: City ai:d Hofp{-
tai bury ng for the 24 hours, end,
ingytlterday at noon—Adults, 50 —Cliil*
dren, 5.
Number of deaths in New York, for 14.
hours ending Tuesday evening— 25T
—Children, $. Tw nty th'rei of the f«v-»
cr, exclullve of Bellevue.
A meeting of the deluded citizens of
Kentucky, at Lexington, on the 13th Au
gust, to the number, as is said of J or
I 6coo, agreed to resolutions ayainfl the A
lien and Sedition laws, fta: ding armies, a
power in the President to raise armies with
out limitation as to namber, or to make
loans withou' limitation as to the >ateofiii.
lefeft, a *ar by sea, or a connexion witl*
' Great Britain. They rtqueft their rep re
fentative to lay their resolutions before the
national legislature and President.
It has been said,' that there are a irralti
! tude of divorces in France ; but if thepro
: fligacy of manners now prevalent become
' universal, there will be no divorcee—for
c there will be no marriages—and society,
t lo KvM Ky d£imi»lUc ties, v\ ill
be no more. Farewell tlun to all the charms
8 of life —welcome eternal flecp and the hau4
1 of I'uicide.
The King of Naplerf has required every
canvent in his dominions to fupyljr the Hate
e with a man, to be maintaiued at the ex
pence of the convent—one man sos every
five nun«. The poor nuns think it very
I! hard that thsy fbould be compelled to keep
them for the pi «*. service.
The French Diredtoty, with all their en«
v 1 ergr and cunning, appear evidently to be
labouring for the ruin of the Republic
|, The/ have not only afforded a ylaufible, and
indeed fair prefect, but even laid them un
der a degree of fieceflity to attack their pow
er, and seize what remains of their colonies
in the Weft Indies.—Thrfe will naturally
become a fubjeft of partition between Ame
• . riea asd Great Britain,— But this is not all-
In the natural p-ogrefs of the war, and
opening views of the assailants, the immeofe
d millions of Spain will fall under the pow
>r e- that predominates, not only on the
y but the great Continent of the New World
ly —For Portugal, if (he fhal' llill preferre, aa
,f she-ought, and r,s f mid and jnft policy re
1. quires that she fhouTd, her tranfirarine pef-
l t fefiions, asd political irdependence, it mult
f. be as the friendjind ally of the Britilh ar.d
American nations. But if the French ru
n lers be cut off from theirfrvn colonial wealth.
e and that of Spain, whith they now coofider
y as their own, pass into other hands, how
a are tfley to find, means of paying so vast an
ie army, and bribing a majority in the Senate ?.
;s —The wealth of Italy and the Netherlands
). is not inexhaullible ; and, it is to be hoped,
y that the Getmans, Swedes and Danes, ani
rs mated by the power and examp eof the
Britilh and American nations, will yet unite
for the preservation of order, fubordinatioiv
and property. £Lond. pap ]
C'tly-Hofpital, Sept. 6, 1 798.
;r A good Cook and faithful Nurses will
| c Gnd immediate employ and generous wages
lr by applying to
c . CHRISTOPHER DARRAH,
Steward of the City Hospital,
(I
ie S3* The Health Office is kept open night and
day, at the City HaJl, uhefe every neceflarr
convenience is procured for removing the Gc&
; and burying the dead
d WILLIAM ALLEN.
0" Those Ciiizens who have LINEN t*
fpjre will render a fervice by fending ic
to the City Hall, for the i.fe of the City HospitaL
- ! U. 1
c - A yo».ing Man in this city,
caphUof keepiirg bonks & accoums in difF-rentlan-
J giiagei, would engage tt> any r/ritiag t)»fincli, ei
a; ther by the day or week, duiiu-r the prevailing
' e fitkntls. Good recommendations can he produced,
tl- A line dirc&«d to N. G and left in Arch ftrect,
t! between Ninth and Tenth Oticia, at No 1 >4, will
imiucdi. telj be atfßc'ed to. Vft- X 4«
.., * -HEALTH-OFFICE,"
11 th September, 1798.
*En.ow-'irTisEl9s,
OUR address of tlie ift inft vras tn
teV)d J d t pr fci tto your viaw the
btf fl«te of our city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion tbe phi la thrftpy and benevo
lence so eminently charafteriftic of the citi !
tens o! Pennsylvania. The fame gen' rous ■■
fi"timtiitß which ynu have diTplay dhas in
fluenced the worthy ar.d benevolent citizens
of Bah more ; who always alive to the feel
ings of humanity, have, it app ars by the
public pipers, a. reid to a fubferip'ion for
ther lirf of our dittreffed fellow citizens.
We return thsm a'l the gratituoe and ref
pefl lo which dispositions so amiable are
entitled v—but it becomes our duty public
ly t« ttate that a fu''d has been providrd for
the purpose, upon the principal of a loan
in anticipation of the liberality a d jutlice
of our Leg:fla;ure, which precludes the
necessity of donations in money from the
humane citizens of our filter dates —C n-
s of prrvifions fro 1 our fellow-ci
tizens in the e untry, as well in New Ji'rfcy
th in our own Stats, have been forwarded
for the use rf the diftreiT-d, with a liberali
ty which does ho-or to the donors.
We fl ;t»er ourTelves that similar donations
will be c< ntit-ued by those generi us indivi
duals, who are contiguous to the ci'y, and
with co-venitnee-fpare a part of their
produce* for the relief of fuffer ng humanity.
By order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, Pnlident.
Attefl
Timoth* Pa?sok, Clerk.
New Encampment.
« The Committee who luperintend the en
essmpment. at Mailer's place near the Mill
Poud on the Gertjiattfown Hoad, about
two miles frem the city, relpeftfully inform
their country frienda that they (land in need
of 'Sb immediate supply of vegetables and
straw for th use of those diHrtfifed citizens
who are flying from the pref nt calamity.
T' e eommittee flatter thcmfelves that the
time liberality will be found in the farmer,
aVid others, to supply this Encampment, as
to hat on the Commons near Schuyl
kill. feo'.h having the fame laudable objcA
in. view.
John In&eep ~i i
'fori. Ralefon t COMMITTEE.
Jfaac W. Mirris. j
€amp, Malieis.' Place,
■ September 10, '9B,
Agreeable to notification in fcvecal of the
pewfpapers of th'e Ci'.y of PhiladtJp ia, fe
epiefti g a meeting of the mere a'tits, trad
er*, mechanics and ottier citizen , at the
On ion School House i t Germantown, o-' J
Wednefclay Auguft. at 4 o'clock P.
M. i i order to fix'on'a fuirable jo
be ffertd at the ensuing cletlion to repre
feiit the City of Philadelphia in Co vgrcfa,
is the v.'xa cy oceafioned by the dccc.afe of
John S van wick, Esq. and also in the next
CoAgvefs senator, to rtprefent in the 1
£eii at#, ih« city o( Pltjlndelphta aim '
County ci Delaware—and fix persons to re
present he city i:v the houljf of aflembly.—
A numero'.is and rcfpeftable body of the
freemeo of he city attenfcid. The bufi
liefs of the mee'rig being opened, a lett r
from captain J f ph Anthony, addressed to
tlie chairman ofthe meeting was read, ex
prefling a decided opinion on the necessity
of unitinii the interelt of the friends of the
e'enfti'ution and government in the
of 'heir reprefentative,tha conceivt dMr
Rob'rt Wain well gual-fied for a fat in
Congt'fsi and soliciting his fellow citizens
Ast his name may not be e ffcred in compe
tjtion with that gentleman, who has his lul
aoncurrence and approbation.
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unanimously carried as
the Candidate forCorg ess.
FRANCIS QURNEY,
a? ftite Senator for the dijlritft compoled of
tjie City and County of Philadelphia and
CoOnlyof P"elawar#{ and as members tore
prtfent the City in a(T mbly—
' Jacob Hi/lzheimer,
Lawttnce Seikel,
Audrtw Bayard,
William Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. Ftjher,
John Clement Stacler.
The question being put, will this meeting
ftipport the foregor g ticket ? it was unani-''
ijioufly agreed to, and it was a'fo re om-
Oiended to the freeme:i of the City of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their support, and to those < f the Coan-
Uy of Philadelphia and County of Delaware
in fuppcrt of the Sena'or.
Ordered, that the minutes ofthe meeting,
by t.he chairman a d fecretaiy, be
piiblifli d it) the newspapers of the City, for
the general information of the elettors.
LEVI HOLLIAGSWORTH,
Chairman.
•Datjiii; Smith, Secretary.
GermqntQwn, Augujl, 1798.
Pursuant lo the Aft of Congre/s, pas
ted on the ninth clay of Ju'y, 1798, entitled
<' At) Adl to provide for the valuation of lands
and, dwelling houlis av.d the enumeration of
ff»ves within the United Sta es," —NOTICE
is hVi tby given, that the "firft meeting of the
Gowovifhooers under the laid Ael, f»r the state
of Pennsylvania, wr!l be tiekt on Mi-ndav, the
twenty second diy of Oilnber nex», at the bo
rough of Reading, in the said lYate.
C. READ,
Comrriiflioner firii named.
trading, Sept S, 1798
To the Creditors of John Dickson,
ij Milton, in the Couty of N~brthumbc> land,
and State of Pennfyivnnia.
GENTtJKIeN,
1 TAKE NOTICE, Aat I have'applied to the
Court of Commen I'leas in and for the County of
Northumberland far the benefit of the (evcral
sews made for the relief of Inf. Iv.rt Debtors, and
that the court have appointed the lad Monday in
OSober next to hiiar me and tny creditors at <he
fcid Court in the town of Sunhury, at whi«ii time
and place you are (i'Tired to attei.d.
Mi.top, 4th Sept. JOHN D CKJON.
i*j«rssw?«£
For Sale.
THE intending to decline the
DRLCJ BUSINESS, offers For y the
whole Stock of
Drugs and MetUcines, Inftrumcnts, &C.
'lh-ftiop is Hcfjjnt. corivttioiiiniifc, ami fuflici
eiHy ktiown r or the bufinefs . one in the
wViol sale an retail line ; the situation equal to
a»y !• the city, feeing at the Col Qcr ot Walnut arid
OrcetK. The whole, or ahy par", of the
Stock, will hp lold, as will heit suit the purchaser.
Thaterms may belcno\yn, byapplying to
James moore, jum.
Who has For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trader^
The Peggy, atyout 3otonsburthen,
MulHerry and Red Ced. r fraqie, and remarkebly
(lout, ps an eify draught of water, rigging in :
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lu«ito;rbiifiael'9
Ail persons indebted to the iate firm of
GolJthiva/t iff Bald-win, Iff. I) GolJthzvait, Quia- \
tJfioait £s* Mr>ore y or the fu'ifrri er, are earnediy
rtqueftvid to make fpeecy payyieat to
JAM]&- MOORE, JUN.
august'% . <5
PLiER IiUGHi
HAS removed hi#Counting House to his Mouse !
tn the Northern Liberties near Nice Town, k.ter
mantoyn road.
! augu'ft z■. . . i, % tf
4 NOTI c E. *
Bank of North America,
Augujl zSth, 1798.
rHOSfc Persons who h. v'e ixiK'csoi Bills to pay
at this Bank are informed,
That rtgular Notice will be put under a sealed
cover to the refpeiHvi payer and lodged
j in the Post Office every Monday until the return
; oi tht ci.izens*
RICHARD WELLS, Cajhicr.
_aug. 19 drf
COLLECTOR'S OFFIGK,
PHILADELPHIA, Augu't 30, 1798,
THE business of the Custom Hoitfe wih Irom
tnis "day be trarrlavfterf iit Chcfcr, during the con
tinuancc of th£ fever which new prevails in this
city ; and in canfecju-nee thereof, the m rchants
are hereby notified, that payment of all bonds for
duties to the United St»sett, payable at this office,
may \ e made either at the Cuitoni li. use in Ches
ter, or at the Bank of the United State*.
Collector's Office, >
Philadelphia, Aug. 30. J
R i<: M oval. """"
THE Office of theSecretaty of the OommiQion
ers for carrying it to efo<st the twenty fir it Article
<>f .he Treaty of Friendship, l.imits arid Nayiea
-ion, between Hi* G*;chd!ic Mfieily a-d the Unit
ed States of America, k for the present removed
Irom No 54. South' rjocond tlreet, to a large two
Itory brick house on the righ hand going up the
G«rmantown road, jtiil a ove t-he Globe Mill, ufu
•x ly called Matters'** houf , beiiig a ve'fy a ry and
healthy situation ; t•> wi.ith perron* having claims
t.* exhibit, cr i<s to make, may come &r
fend with the greaua fafety. . l etter?, pott paid,
BilJs and Not~s, to be or protefled, and di
ruflior.b r jfpe>sUng any kind v f Notarial buiyaefs
.r.clofed nnd left at, the Pod Office, will be duly
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
Philadelphia, august 30
The Office of th« *
Appointed to fitperintend ik* building of the
FnVate to be laane'd cot^ e • v ~-
vecfto-No. 111 Spruce Mreet—of which those gen
tlenien wh<? have ,»H>t akeuly come forward with
their fu'afcripjtion6 will pleafc t<> uke notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, SccYy'.
aiiffrsf 7 '
To be soJd 9
An elegant and convenient House,
In Cbefnui Jireet y next door tot he Bank vf X«rt/j Ameir':Ci
THE L?t is thirty by one hundred and seventy
eight. The House. bj»s been thoroughly repaired
within a few months.-r—Apply to the Printer,
augusr 8 -S
DUTY on CARRiAUEb.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Coiigrefs of the
United States of America, pafled at Plsila
the alirh day ol May, 1796, laying du
ties 011 carriage* for the conveyance of pcrfens, and
repealing the former ails f»r that purpefe—That
fliall he levitd, colleded and paid, upon a!)
carri?ges for the conveyance of perfoßs, which
(hall be kept by or tor any person, for his 01 hci
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or lor til convey
mg of paffcugert, the ftveral duties and rates (mi
lowing, viz. doll 6.
For and upon every coach jj
upon every cliariot 13
upon r ve'ry post chariot 12
upon every chaise xt
upon with-or without top 9
upon every caachee 9
upon other carnages, having pannel }
work blinds, glaflcs, V 9
or curtains
upon four-wheel carriages, having")
frame polls and tops, with (teel C 6
springs 5
upon four-wh«el with ")
wooden or iron springs on jacks J
upon currieics with tops 3
upon chailet with tops ;
upon chairs with tops 3
Bpop sulkies with tep« j
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
■pon two wheel carriages wuh Heel">
or iron springs 1 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 1
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having fronted pods and tops, i 2
and reding upon woodtn spar? j
The Colledor oJ the revenue ol the firft fiivition
of the firft survey of the dillriift of Peqjifylvania,
will attend daily until the 30th day ol September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriages, at Germamown, <n the Main llreet, a
little above th« sign of the Kinjj ot Prulfia, W
which all persons pofieffed of fiich carriages are
deCred to take notice.
Notice is also given*, '
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled
fpirituoa- Injuor-, that licenles wi|| be granted to
them ; bse Kvence for pry ing bufinefs of
retailing of win s iln aWs quantity, or in Jess
uantitiet, than 30 galion-—and one licence fir
at l ying 011 the business of retailing spirituous li
quors in iefs quantifies than twenty g .lions, at the
fame time and th( fame place, by
JAMES ASH,
Collcflor of the id div*fion of the in
f?urvey of thedi(lri«sl c 1 Pe'rniyivania.
Office of lnlpe<slion at Gtrmantown, ">
■jid Augufl, t798. j
€3* Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at said office.
J S3* The Stamp Press is removed
to the Office of Infpedion in Germantown, on the
Maih Tcit, a little a(>ov« th ligii of the King ol
PruiJDa,--.where attendance will be given for the
accommodation of thole who wifcany inftrrnvjnt»
1 flamptd, on Th,urfdays and Satwdajs.
J
1
ANOTHER. STRONG PROOF
Of the Kreat and unparalleled eificay of i
Dr. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS, \
Ir tlic Cwe of
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas cil" Consumptions.
New-fork, July to, '798.
To Dr.. Church,
Sir,
Fot* upwards of Tiuelvr Years, I havejli
borcd under a feverr Cough, (Tiortuels of breath
fitting of nutter from my lungs and ofttn of
jotted olood. till at length I was !o teduced as
to be unable to walk acrol's ray room, and ow
ing to the vi knee ot my aad the (hori
nefs of breath could get no reft day or night.—
Hs arißi" of your excellent medicine, ( the Cough
Drops, I procured a buttle ; I took a dose as
lyon as I got it, f'r ;m which I t'ourd instantane
ous relief, ind by coiJuniiiug.it for thr<e days,
I bless GrtcT I ain rfflOred topcrfetfl health. As
Jt>eliev j vou to have been the iiillrmiu n.t in t")e
haritis of Providence, of laving rny lite, I mult
intreat yod to pbhlifh thus for tne bttiefit of any
who may be in mv [itnation, as I am co/ifidetit
it : s one of the nf ft niediiini.6 in tile world for
thoi'e complaint's.
I am, Sir, jow g:-aU-ful servant,
' NIClibL .-IS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and f ib! by tbelnirentnr and sole
proprietor, Or CHURCH, at his Diipenfavy,
Wafhington-flreet, New-York, and at his of
fice, No t, fjouth Third-flrct t, Philadelphia,
and fold by.appointment at Mr Weedrrui/s 11,1
William llreet, and Stilwell & Detoreft, 168
Peari street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, VV'il
fon, Wilmington, &c. &c,
O B S* E R V F,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been indultrioujly circulated through some
of the principal cities in the Urtited States, per
fans are requeued to them of such per
lons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, Poughkeepfie—
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond aiid Co. New
caftle-—rieiniifl), Lancafter—Blauvelt, Brunf
wick (N. J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
*„* Patterns letters (Toft paid) addrcfled to
Dr Church, New York, duly attended to.
august jo lasv^w
TO BE LET, /
Andimmciiale possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, No
ats High-ftreel, lately occupied by Doc
kor Wiftjr, with Coach house and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHFAFF,
A r o 168, Hig/'-Jlreet.
jU Jy "! t $
OX BEEF.
i6D Barrels £ of B ef of bsft quality, put
jn half Barrels Jup with carefor voyages,
ico Barrels of Conneflicut Pork.
50 Barrels of Connedicut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipe* of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half, calks of Sherry
30 Cifks of I.iflbon
300 Cases of trench Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
zo Boxes of bejl Durham Muftyrd.
For Sale, by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's IVharJ.
* eodtC
HAPPT DISCOVERT,. '
A <■/>•-#/■f*M f*i.v« J 10 " — " * **' " "
The Yellow Fever,
At will ms any other dutjcravs pa'rid fewer, fiver and
and other inveterate and complicated 4ty
th( vfe of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented in£itg4and,France,
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
| where the moll aftomfhing cure? have been effect
ed on persons judged incarable by ail fhyiiciant.
In a Treatise printed in Lon on, on the properties
of this powder, by T. Seymour* M. D- lateCfce
mifl to his Majefly there are stated two hundred
cases, where this moll valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in all kind of pleurify, hloidy flux,
1 ii'erate rhcumatifms, sciatica, apoplexy, patal\fte, yel-
Uiv jaundice, ringworm, worms in children and in grown
persons, whites chronical head and flomath aches, bepa
tick and ntphretutal or Jlone cholic, the kings civil, fevrvy
and the mpft inveterate and complicated venereal disease. it
i$ ikewire the heft preparative for *he fraall pox
and measles; ol the greatest utility for young as
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. Ihe efficacy of this po-wder sn lVveral of the
above diseases t«as been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has heen in the yellow fever lad year, by Mr.
Mahy, who currd frveral by administering only
/w« of the said p»%tidert, and loft not a Tingle pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and
attelled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori
ginal may be fcenat Andrew Hadftg t umbrella J&ep,
JVo. 13*, comer of Chef tut and Fourth Jlreets, the on
ly place whirr thef* pywderti are to be. had, with
proper dirc<slions for the use ot them>—Pricx two
dollars. v
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, ar.y
person wishing to be provided with those powdejs,
will pfeafc to apply wry soon, as the cjuantity at
hand is rot very large, and it is doubt iul il for a
long time, or if cvt*r any other genuine will be im
ported, the frcret remaining only in the hands o (
the inventor, in Europe, and ever ' commu
nicated to, or difcovrrcd by any orh«r person.
N B In thtf yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der x muft betaken the lecond, or at liaft the third
day
Wc the fubferibere, durirg the late ficVncf* in
this city, having taken thr yt-l'ow fever, applied to
Mr. Mahy for his mrdical afiiftance, we do here
by certi y, that by a certain powder, cal ed the
Poudre Unique, we were perfe&ly recovered from
the said fatil sickness, and from an experience of
the happy %ffe<sls of the above mod valuable medi
ci«e consider it our duty to make the fame known,
for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones,
My ius O'Connor,
Je f e I u-rer,
CKriften Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Ann Grovcr,
William JJills,
David Williams, carpeator,
William T Donation, maft-mal?er.
Mr. Mahy*s wtii known Plaiiier for a'l kind of
wounds and lores ro be hati at the above direc
tion, No Iv, Ciefnut
: 8 laws
Pennjylxania Population Company.
NO TICE is hereby given to the
Stockhol<h»», an alf ffment o
i-oliars i>. levied on each ihare,—paya le, one halt
in 30, and th~ remainjir in 60 from the 3d
inlt. w! ich they are requetted to pay to the Trea
surer o! the company at the Company** Office,
No. 53 North Fou th street, ajjreeab y to the time*
above mriitioned. ihe Froprirt »rs wil I pleal'e to
recoiled the necefiity of being puniluai, othcF
wife the forfeirure of th -ir (hares will be incurred,
agreeably to the conOjtutioq
Uy Order of tb * Board.
SOL. MAK/iCHE, Sec'iy.
7 tut&uw
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjimiii Mafter, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
q 4«- Fen egas ps Cocoa
4ops U;. of Flora Indigo .
aio Ba*V# of Cotton
4 Packag-esof Goat Skins
By W'tH'ingf iff Francis•
, • No. Eleventh llreet.
July 2: dtf >
Wot ice is hereby given,
THAT application will be nvaiie to the Trcafu- i
! ry of the States, for the rencwd of the -
following Certificatrfl of Six Per Cent Funded
! Stock, landing in the name of Jib i Carbonel!, of 1
| Lfrndoa, die laid Certificates h»v»ng <:e*n lolt on 1
board the Swallow Packet, Captain liidd. from
Falmouth ro > ew-York
. v No. 3072 I Cut, for 2000 ilolls. 1
2964. I Jo. 5000 J
-10,577 1 do 3000 J
IVilhngs £s* Ftandf.
Philadelphia, avguft JO. eofnv
~ Full SALE,
, |JY'THE SCSSe Rl BERS, NO. S L,*» F. N TH"ST« t IT,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves,
JVil/ings & Francis.
jwne iQ, dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Cornet- of Chefnut
and Twe)ftl|-ftrect«, on the Somroon?,
where he will leceivc ind execute the orderj of
his frisnds and wholelale caftoraers, with usual
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
the preferit Epidenuc, where it i.as not made its
appearance this fcafon, n«.r daring any of the
years pift.
Madras and Ventapaulem
handkerchiefs,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mod approved patterns,entitled
to tha drawback, just rectived,
AS« FOR SALE BY
Alex,. J. Miller & C».
, No. 6.4, Sotlth Front street.
n;ay 18. *
Do&or GOURDES,
No. 28, Pine-Street ;
Late SURGEON in the armies of St. Domingo,
OFFERS his fervicea to the inhabitants of Phi
ladelphia in \he line of lis proteffion. He
flatters himfelf that his lonjj fuccefsful experience
in the Weft-India fevers, wi.l procure feim ihe con
fidence oi the citizens of this city ; partifiu'.arly
those attacked by the present Epidemic.
anpuftisf eod^t
0" ihe Subscribers have remov
ed for the present from Penn ftrptt to Elcventh
ftrect, between Filbert and HSgh-ftreets.
IVilhngs & Francis.
9 4tw
Arrived in tKe 'Jhip Pennsylvania, Capt. Wi L
LIAMSON, from Hamburgh, now lyitfg at
Chejler.
\ Number of .GERMAN SERVANTS, men,
\ women, boys and gtrls, amongst whom are
Gunsmiths, Parpen;- rs, Tnfßfjtt, Taylors, Black
smiths. Gari'entrs, Mafpns, Coachmen, H-untfmen,
Ac. Sec whole i'ervituce ii to be
of on board the ShiD. hy
GURNET & SMITH.
Berigaf Goods,
15 .'IIJ ; V £> iff Kt
Chintz Ce'lTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas Tookefeys
Eliabad Bafrjia Wrought Mtißin*
Loijg Drawers
Coarie S»garbin bags, fit for the European markets
also,
Carolina indigo
Coffee in hog(head«
A few pipei of Very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on rcafoilabls terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock-Mreet.
juty 14 mw^tf
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHKSNUT imtn,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
jn ; T *9 $
Bank; of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removad toGcr
mantown, —where the business will be tranfa&ed
to-morrow, in the Union School House.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafiiier.
September 4 5
* NOTICE. """ *
Bank of the United States,
September 4. 179?.
THE Public are informed that after the 9th inft.
this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in the morn
ing, and so remain until i-oon.
G.SIMPSON, Cashier.
=eitem' er 4. dtf
- ■ ' i ■-.» l.t,Ji -iji»-- 11 M 11
NOTICE,
Back of the United States,-
Augtfl 18, 1798.
THOSE persons who have Notes or flilis to
pay at this Bank, are informed,
That legular Noticts will be put underafeal
,ed cover to the refpeflive payer and
lodged in the Poll Office every Monday until
the return of the Citizens.
G. SIMPSON, eajhier.
august 8 3>wtf
Pennsylvania HofpitaT,
9 mo. I, 1798.
NO p:rfon with an infctfious disease, caa be
admitted ii ti this house; it is therefore ear
ncflly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
or ring any such patient to the gate, who. is iil
«'ith the prevailing fyvcr. Several perfonsh iving
heen sent here improperly, is the-reafon of giving
this caution.
sLTMan4frU FRANCIS t:IC!GINS .
NOP LJNPIAG,
From on hoard *he Amiable Matilda, from
and for falc by the fubicribcr,
8S cafksCLARE 1'
71 do. ; da of a sup rior quality
a trunks green PARAb,OLS.
Thornns Mu*galroyd %
No. 11, YV uinui-llrcei.
WHO HAS 9N HAND,
V>hitc Wine in Calks
Sweet Oil of a Superior quality, in
I oxes and batkets
1 u 11clie , £Dtitl#d to
Sautcme / • Drawback.
Irith iviarket / WINES ip Cases
Mai arty an- 1
Ivtrd-c J
Rota Win( in htds.
Firnen o it.
may ay. eotf
avAj ay.
AL*fs-Hou««, Aiiguft 16, i k.
..DENTUMEN^
Pleafc to take niin'cr, tliat you 'J I
turned io fence as Guardians of th* B
fur the enfuinsr twel*e months, rot
therefore requested to attend at the
Hall on the twenty fifth of Septeafcer
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon.
By order of the Board, ,
JACOB g
Secretary^ r9
James M'Crej, r
Joseph R. Tatera, To fuccJd fe •
James Glentworth, f" Nalbro Fra*ier.
Samuel Pric« t
Willi im Preston, " I
Benjamin Ptic,p, To fucce«
Samuel Jerc r 1 bIo,. Hi
Iltac T. Hopper, | ' K
Bazel Wood, _
M nuel Eyres, " o B
Janes King, Standilh Tor|. 8
Keylef,' 1 T , , I B
Philip J. Dehaas, } ° L fu £«4 1
Solin Servofs, J ohn Ware - I
Charles Swift,
William Alexander, To fucceedß
Nicholas Pickel, Peter MierckM
Charles Baftios,
William Holdernef?,"J
Jam« Stokes, / To fucCeedl
Richard Bailey,- f Joseph Anthoil gt,
John Whitefides* J
John Hood, \
Jacob Gribble, ' To succeed 1 Pjjj
Joseph Huddle, jun. f Alexander Stel |g
Joseph Conrad, )
John Davis, } I M
Joseph Simthoas, f To fuccecd 1
Charles Plc.ifants, f Wiliram BcaveA S
David Seckel, )
Samuel GetlifF,
John Waddington, / To succeed I
William Read, f George PlumlleM
William Cramsad, )
Daniel Bcehro, \
Andrew Pettit, f To fuoceed I
J ft»}>h Walker, £ Jacob Lawerfw®
Jacob Ede. born, ) 1
PsNNsrLrJNiA, Jf.
In tie Name and by the Authority of theel
monwealth of Pennsylvania,
By T-H OMAS MIFFLIN, I
Coverner o£ the lard CnmnionwealtlM
A PROCLAMATION. 1
WHEREA?, it has been stated to mJ
the I'rclidem; and Direttors of the BS
of Pennsylvania, That on the night of Sal
day the firft- inQant, the llouTe now occupied!
the laid Bank, commonly called Csrpcnl
Hall, was burgiarioufly entered by some villi
or villains unknown, and therefrom a coniicß
.able number of Bank Not?a of various defcJ
tions and denomination', were stolen and carrl
away: to the intent that the perpetratl
or perpetrators of so great a crime, and ■
aepeiTanesthereto, juaybediftMTeredandbrov J
to condign puijifhraent, I have deemed it exj
client to ilTue this Proclamation, Ht-REBY off#
ing and promiGnga REWARDof ONE liiol
SAND DOLLARS to any person, or perloJ
who shall discover the perpetrator, <>r perpetll
tors of the fiid crime, or any of.them, <y aa
der,: AND | do hereby further offer iS*l
mife A FREE AND ENTIRE PARf&J
unto any one of the perpetrators, oraccefi'ariJ
aforefaid of the commiflion of tht kid cnn J
who (hall make a full and fatisfadtotr difclofijrJ
of all the aiitumflances relative :o tWcontrivin J
and acromplifhiitg she fume, aud h e nam /j
■ l *d,pia r es of abod- of big or her fa
that ftsch affiliates be appreh^ ec j ' .
convi.fled: AND alt the judges, Jus; e5)
riffs, Con Babies, and-other Public 4cu».,f
this Commonwealth (according to the n-es<-t
their rcfyedfivt stations) are hereby rcqu r d and
enjoined to u!e all lawful means fa cletCt and
bring to jtillice each and every perfcn coiurned
in contriving, or perpetrating tilt crime i,re
('aid.
GIVEN under my haqd ?nd the (Ural
of the State, at Germaotown, h(
(1.. S.) third day of September, in the years!
our l.ofd, one thoufandft»eshnndrn
and ninety-eight, and of the Common
wealth thj twenty-third.
Thomas mifilin.
By the Governor:
A.J Dallas.
Secrtiary nf tie Commwwinlth.
l andTng^
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the {hip Con.
nedliciit, from Bat»via—
About 300 tons of' Java GofFee,
of the gtowth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
PETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
150 hhds. choice [amaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy ill and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
City CQminiilioners' 'Office,
I August 30, 1798.
N ptrfoance of an ordinance of the ScieA and
Common Councils, passed the 22d da 7 of Msy»
I / 9s»
PropofaUin writing will be received by the City
Conn, iilioutrs for one montk Jrom th.' firll of Sep
tember next, for leering to rent On lcafc's for oif
y ar, toioo.mc-nw the hrft day of next fc
the folio* puolic property of the cit)~*
ihe wharf Unding on Viee iirect,
Also on oaffalraa,
aVlulb^rry,
And High ilrccta.
an 'WI mt Arrets, I>faw bridge, with I
.the Scale and FiOi houJes, Spruce, Pin< *nd Cedar
ftrects.
1 he Cellar ywoer the City Hall.
The J avern at the mj.idlc ferry on Schuylkill,
with the l.ots conf,«tiotts :liefet6 (c<ccp| so much
*h<rreoi av ihall he occupied by any building erec
ted for tl>e u'k. the Coiicclvr of the l olls, ocV
n-ecefu' y for the toll gates )
A Hated niei ifr.g of she City Comnuflioners v.'ill
i ar the City Halleve y TuefJay morning ■ t
ten c clo U, during the pieicnf epi<lemic roim
I'his Day is Published,
ANDFORftALtBYJ.FF.NNO. I tCf.C HE S N UT-S"» RUT
AN ADDiiESS
7 0 the People of Mary land
ON the origin, pjtogrefs and prel wt ftnte of
i rench aggr' wit)* a sketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the lhnte.dk
State*, and io(Tie relieolio- f. on the late procecdirga
in Congrri*; written the la(i of April in the prc«
letjt yea^ # by a Mender of ths Hcufe of
tativcs. § f