Nvmbf.Z 1664.]
Will be Sold,
On Tuesday the 9th day of January inft.
at 7 o'clock in the Evening at the Mer
chant's CoSfee House, the following des
cribed trafts of land—viz.
Seven contiguous trails of land, situate
•n the waters of little Equimrak creik, in
the county of Northampton, surveyed on
warrants dated refpe&ively the 9th day
of October, 1776, and patented in the year
1713.
ALSO,
Fifteen thousand acres, of land situate in
in JJnion, Springfield and Shirly townships
in Huntingdon county —Particnlarsof which
may he known by applying to Charles Ed
dy, No. 4, North Eighth Street.
Peter Ben/on, Auctioneer.
Jan. ?. dtioth.
T0" BE" LET, ~,
And pojTtfllou g»v«* the ift-fami»rf, v
The House No. 107, Arch-street,
N«r the corner of TbtrJ further
partitulars, enquire as above, or at No, 88, Vine
S'reet.'
December ij dif
Ran away the 25th of Decem
ber, i;? 7, a Negro Man. about 5 feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion; when fpofee to
and called by hit name he has a quick (harp look
Qut of his eyo. and (hews the white of them rery
«p«tch; has taken all his eloathes with him, which
are, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and clrvlc bodied coat, a striped vist, nankeen
breeches, silk (lockings and ruffled (hirts, and a
number of other cloaths. said Negro under
loads farming, and is a t ood Ihoemaker and ear*
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he imy forge a pafi. Whoever takes up
said negro and secures hi*i, so thatlget hira, fltall
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
Susannah Medford, Ijving in Still Pond, Mary
land, Kent coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 29 years old.
January z. fit
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fobferiber, on the 14th
of December, 1797, a Negro Man, about 11
years old, by the name of Cato.be is about 5 feet
7or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; he
has a very coa.-fe voice, his fore teeth ft and very
far apar: ; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
hjm, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a . pair of kersey trowfers, a
lralf wjojn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hpt; he topk ivitiihim four very good (hirts—l
•xpeit he has marie for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
Whosoever takes up said negro and secures him, so
that the owner may get Jiim again, {bail have the
above reward, paid by mc, JOHN M.OORE,
giving in Still Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
January i. *6tzaw
Lodgings Wanted,
Furni&ed or unhirniihed for a Gentleman, La
dy and servant—two or three genteel Rooms an<f
aOaricL , • .1 c-T.l w L'UIB. - r . n
quire of the Printer.
Dec. ap. *3t
All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are reqtiefted to
bring in tbeir accounts ptoperly attefled, on or
before the firft day of January orxt ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to mike immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Adminillratix.
Nov. 29 1797. 6
James C. csf Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THEIR STORE,
N«.at3, corner of Arch and Front streets,
'H/trt ion SALS,
£ Cetton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A fiew bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Putlicat (ilk ditto #
Ditto Poadicherrv and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffrties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
' Few cheftsbeft Hrfon T«
Atfo- IJOO boxes bed London Window Ghfs,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —a»d 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they wiildifpofe of cheaper
than any ig the city.
November an. yuvtf
' NOV/ LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
'I be Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Tliompfon, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been telefled)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caneflers and bags
>□ legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALS BJ
PETER BLIGHT.
l'/ho also offers For Sale,
Just landej from (hip Amity, from Janftica.
jo« hlids. Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
A pi son well acquainted with
thetheoryand book-keeping,
manyyearscngaged inbuflnefsforhimfeif and others,
would he glad to be employed, either as an agent
er fa&or ; or irf posting books ; ftatinjj unsettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or finglifli.
A note addrefled to J. A. and left at this office y
will be punctually attended to.
November 3-awtf
House and Lots, in Bordentaivn.
TO BE SOLD, a hindfome two story Honfe.
with the Lot on which it is eredted, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty two
feet front, an J in neat order. The lot contaius
one acre, ajid is one hsndred feet on the main
■flreet, and extends with the fame breadth to bask
street. Alfa, a large Lot, containing nearly feur
acres, Separated from the form rby back street.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, ind an indisputable title give a f
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, rdidiag in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, -co. 144, Market-street.
December 1. 3-w f
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY hVF.NING, 7ANUART 9, 1798.
For Savannah, ,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
t t_ The faft failing (hip
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gaiaarw, Master,
I yIOW lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—bas handfotne at
commodations f if pa(Ten«rer«—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Matter on board, or to
N. iff y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina ladigs, Molalfes in lthds, Teneriffe
wine, ice. Sec
December 27 jtawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
P—, A Britifb vefH, fifteen hundred
to two thousand fiv? hundred hir
burthen.
Peter Blight.
\ WHO HAS Ffiß. SALC,
Choice Port Wise in pises and hog (hoc
aftd OJ6 Londno Particular Madeira, fit tor imme
diate life, in pipes.
December 10 §lw
for Charleston,
j THE SHIP
V E N us,
I Lying at the ivharj of Mejfrs. Perotts
I QHE will 'nke Freight on rtrv
1 1 o low terms, and fail the firft
opening.—Apply to the matter on board, or to
, Jos. Anthony Ssf Co.
Detember >8 §
For Amsterdam,
»—a. The Ship
FARMER,
r.jjjjyjjjsffity' John M'CoiloiW, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, tha
greater part of her eargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Handing, out of the said Ship, from Boar
deanx, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter eaiks
Claret ia cafe*, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, }
Sauteruc, V Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
novtmher 24. f
For Londonderry,
7" * THE BRICANTINE
William Whitten, Master.
" A strong good veffal, about two
hundred tons, to fail with ali convenient speed, a
ttt«> Mrr nf her '■Trtrn enffag*d—nam lyi»cr at
Willing and FfanWs'iwtmtr rwr irwgnt ;
faee, apply to th« captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
LanJenbcrger's "wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
noy 18. 5
For Sale or Charter,
-< —1-. The Snow
GOOD HOPE '
Will carry about 1200 barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers Ess Co.
No. 151, South Secand-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and TenerifTe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of h«r
■ _£\. cirgo being ready to go rn
board, is ezpe<Rcd to fail on or about Sanday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain oh
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PH*LIP NIC KLIN Co.
- november 11. 5
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
xr'r«S.-> accommodations for paflengers—
Sjils on the loth of December. For Freight or
Passage, app'y to ROSS ts* SIMSON.
Wbt have /» difpafc of,
A small invoice of GLAUBSR SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
To be fold,
An KLEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story btick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trait lane, in the
tqwnftiip of Nioyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
tile Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
applicition for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated Julv it, 1797. the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. Mw
. ROSS £sf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cqflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
30ocaiks RICE, snd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
C-n.27. §
By John Fenno, N° il9 Chefnut Street.
NICKLIN y GRiFPIPH,
At rht r Store on Walnut StreetWhart —
HAVE FOR SALS,
5? hhris. r>f Jimatca Hum
.*ladeira Win: in pip« and hhds.
TenerilTe do. in pipes
Oifd Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Te» in qoai terj and efg%tbs of cliells
Sail Canvjfs, N«. I, to 8
Dimitiet, Ginghams, and Mufiuteti, in packa
ges fii'tihlc fur the Weft li/dta market
Nails assorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow •_hre dry in esfks ;
And at New-York, onboard the
Ihip Diana, fl-om Liverpool,exported ro«nd ]
as f<>on as the navigation is "pen,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coils
Spanifls Bro rn "] :
Vejnian (ted
Purple Brown n^rm-rc
Patent white *>UNTS
Whit* Vad
Red lead
Colebthar vitriol
z6O handles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw'ne
Ship Di ana, ...
0r a ' e ° r C^ arter -
ALSO,
N? B. " t he late tirm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN GRIFFITH.
January I. ecdtf
Insurance Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of the Company will b« held at
their office on the niuth day of January next (be
ing the second Tuesday in the month) for the Elec
tion of twenty-five Direitors for the eefsing year.
EB&N. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
. December 14. th&mtgthj
Pennfyivania Population Com
papy.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
h'eld at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
street, on Wedhefday, the 10th day of January
nelt, at-ll o'clock.
By order ol the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December i 6 eodtiothj
THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No, 17, south feeond-ftreet—containing
N elegant Frontispiece of the Marquia la Fay
with v» llluliraiion; being all account
pal events in the public lite of the Marquis, with a
(ketch of the fufferingj of himfelf and his unfortuaate
family. A complete Almanack —104 ruled pages
for memorandums, obfervjtion*, &c. arfo,for account
of monies paid and received for everyday in tbe year
—a marketing and other ufeful meet
ings of friends —1 ill of births, deaths, &c.—new
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798 —containing an Almanack; 104 ruled pages
for memorandums and cath account; Duties payable
on .goods imported into the United States. Cuftom
oufe fee!, &c. (lamp duties, to take place after tbe
3 ifH>cr mber;a lift of the post tovos and croCs-roads
in the United 2tat»; a variety of uleful tables, and
othrr interelling matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, constantly keepa tor sale, ageneral
alfortmcutof account Itooks, and other
llai onary goods, and makes to order books of any
size , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
Weft-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Englilh
and Ametican. Dec. *7 —* 3U
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BV
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street,
December 18. iw
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few chelU of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner of Second and pin« streets.
December 26. eotf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUG ALL presents his
moll r?fpe.flful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, aad re
turns his most gratefal thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemsuthe has expetienced for
tnefc twenty-five years pad, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walnut-ftreet9. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for yoHr.g
gentlemen.
Dec. lawtf.
The Suhlcriber,
Informs those to whoa he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion (ince December 1796 are,balanced to the 3 tft
ult. and will during the present month <iemain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further inveftigatioa and fciut ny.
JAMftS GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, J.m. 1111798.
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tbezoth
Inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Scon Dollars, at Wm. BLaCKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets iu. the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifler
ir.g and ejtauii iing in tliafe, the." City (A Walhing
ton, No. 11. and faterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorifad by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The.business of 3 BaaKta, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stoc!i and Securities,
difcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Iloufes, &c. fcc. will be duly attendciito,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November IJ, §
NOTICE. '
ALL perf >ns who have any demand* agamft
th««ft*»e of Will»m ¥LESwrooo, of
I Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, «5e
| cealed, are' requefled to exhibit their accounts,
1 properly-attelled ; and those who are indehtt J
[ to the fame, are desired to make immediate!
payuei.t, to
GEO. DOBSON, ) ......
No. 15, So. Tbird-ftrect. ) '
January 4. dtf
forJJLY,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fcf Co.
No. 8, Ch»lniit-ftreet,
One hunartd and eighty hales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amonglt which are,
Gurra'is Mwnoedies
Raitas . Saunas
Cuzz nails Tamla Coiiaes
Guaz/» Emertics
Bloe dotM Calteo-s
Palampoors Romali Handfcei chiefs
Amongli them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. $
JUST RECEIVED,
"(via .New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
- -No If, south Third ftrect,
An cxtenfive and general aiTortmcnt of
HA&ERDASHERY, viz.
Best London milt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. dp. Worsted Bindings, affor-
Makentie'sfuper,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Ntfns Thread no. 6tp Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Black nd coloured Chi
reguUrly assorted nefe Ribbands
Cohiured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Bi?ckVelvet, 1 -4 to lid
Colecred do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattin
Silk and cottrji Wires French Cambrick
■Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
ST.irt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brush Feathers Buttons
And a compleat aflbrtment of Goods, fu it able
to the prelent and approaching fcafon, at reduced
prices. Dec. 6. dtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX tor SPINNING,
To be given ont every fecosd, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 aad io—
back of no. 51, f'outh Fifth llreet, ahove Spmce
ftreet. ' eodiw
For Sale by th'e Subscribers,
Priipe Rice in <wbolc and balf tierces
Bouideaux Brandy
TentriJJe Wine
Melajjes
Georgia and Garolina Indigo -
Rayens Duck and tne bogjhead of paint
brtffbes. . . A
-a*. & y KW
ji, Svntb Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim
Jb'refh Raisins.
A Small cargo just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut street wharf, from the sloop Ya
ri.ee, capt. Haikell, confiding of Kegs, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, pnd sacks
of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Matter
on board, cr to
. Jos. Anthdny & Co.
December 19 §.tt
Imported (via New York) on the
ihip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
fala by the fubferiber, at No, 61, Chefsut firect,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
' ing articles . •
Maharagpnges Qhartonna Dorsns
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Romais Bandaanoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Cfiafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mall MulUiar.ktfchiefs Palempores
t Patna do. Banares Opium
Lesser Cardimum Semis. ,
. * Samuel Wilcox.
novemfcer tuth«4w
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality vnanufaflured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; Qielled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porteri Beer,
Ale and Cyeler ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
I'uitable for exportation or home consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Muftard-SeeJ.
Also forfale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale bv
JOHNHAWORTH,
No. SB, south Fiont-ftrcet.
nrrv. 17. rn.&th.t.xj.
STOLEN
Oat of the fubferibet's office a large Hue
clothcloai,half worn- The infideof theGollar
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a ftlver hook
and chain as a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid for reftoriog it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. 111 South 3d Street.
Dec. 16. diw
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at hit Store, No. 75, Sooth
Water-street,
A general affortmant of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattir.s
Do. do. l,«teHrißgs
Do. do. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing_Silks
Imperial and Hyfun Teal
I.ong and Ihort Nas.keens
Quick Silyer, in tubs .
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted G!afs Ware, in cases
White and I Javaciia Sagars, in hoxes
Molaffcs w hog(bead«
St. Croi* Rum and in do.
l.ondon particular Madeira Wiue
Shtrry and Malaga Wines, in rvcrt-r cflcs
Red, yeilowand pale Barks, in chclls
Logwood, &£.
m,v tuJcf4w JOSEPH smts.
War-Office of the United States,
Jcnvnry the \ft, 1798.
WHEREAS fraiias have been praeUfod,. in
Warrants far Bounty Lands, dne
ro the OfSccrs'and Holdi.-rsjif the late Contiuentaf
i'-rmy, by the projud.on o£ forged inflruments.
To check in future such impoGiions, it has been
thought auvifeable ; that all perfoss, haring claims
i>>r bounty tandi, whether in their own right, as
legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any inrtrumeut
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
rsfpe&ive claims to the War Office, on or before
rhe firil day 01 January 1799 in order ihst such
claim* may be 'duly examined, ?dj*!ked and deter
mined upon.
To substantiate such chinas, 2 (Iri * obf-rvance ot
the rule# herttofore iffuelfrora the War Office will
be indifpeniable ; and in aitdiricnjo what is requir
ed by thefaid rules, the certificate oJ the r.cknow
ledgement of a Dee Jor Power of Attorney, nmit
-all# set forth the place of refidenct and occupation
of the c.'aimant or person making such acknowledg
ment! ; and when the pjoct of [ rrloual knowledge
is by a witocf* or wituefles, thrir place or places of
residence rei.lt be set forth m like minrrer-
JAMES M-UEnRV, of
Jan. ?. <l6w
B A L L.
Mr. Franci<refpe.S fully informs hi»kbelar», and
the public in general, that hi« second praftiSng
Ball will ta on i harf'ay the 1 rth at the new Af
feraMv Ra»ra South Fourth Street,b«we;o Chefnut
and Waln»t Strrrt— Ladi-s Tickets to bthad by ap
plying t» the fchobrs of Mr. Francis, or at hi«
hof/e No. 70 North EighiU Street.—Gcrdenen's
tickets one dollar each, to be hae of Mr. Francis,
at the Academy, or at hi» Wmfe.
Mr. Francis likewise informs the Snbfcriber to the
Seled Balls, that the next wi'l be on I'ucfday the
16th—1 hose fubferibers wbo have not yet received
their tickets arc requested to apply for them as a
bove.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as nfual.
Jan. 7. d4t
Bank of North Amferica,
January I, 1798.
AT a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a divi
dend of fix per tent, was declared for the last
half year, which will be paid to the Stocknolders or
their reprefestative* at any time after ;he ictb inft.
By order of the board. '
JOHN NIXON, Present.
dtioth
Bank of the United States,
January ifl, 1798.
THE Directors have this day declared a dividend
of sixteen dollars on each (hare for the last fix
m«nths,—fi lfo an additional dividend of four dol
lars on each ihare, arising from surplus profits.!
Which dividends will be paid to the Stockhold
ers, or their legal reprcfentatives, after the 10th
nft. d6t
GEORGE SIMPSON, Cajbier.
0" The owner* of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uroo, nailer, captured by
a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
cember, may receive interfiling information ref
pe&ing her, by applying to the Department of
TTie Printers in the sea-port towns of
P»P*rs- Jan" C y
French Circvjating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No.ne Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the FAnch Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Lidrart, con
littin? of upwards of 1450 volumes, the best cal
culated to a.*jrd either ufefuiiniiruilion, or plea
fiire. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. Bv All translations from and into the French,
Engtilh and Spanish Languages, executec with ac
cural) and difpateh. coins nov. 15.
foiTsAle; -
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the coma- of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
I vy Itches. Alfa, a general afTortment ps Tools,
'Kites and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinion*
and f»r;{e work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glades, Putiice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
%* Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. ffrtiHf
Landing this day,
From on board tb« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawlev, Matter,
w pipw and j Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BV
George Latimer & Son.
uovemher 9. {
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No, si, Second P. reet, the corner of Chefnut dreet,
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprefeotatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, madein purl'uancc of a refblution of
the HoufVof Reprcfentatives, authorizing thefaid
Committee to fit during the recefc of Congress, and
inilrufiing c£cm "to enquire, and, by all lawfid
" means, todifcaver the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the (aid William Blount
" stands impeache.<, and who are the »arti« and
" aflociates therein."
Printed hj order of the House ofßeprefer.tatrues.
December ic j
NOTICE. ~
To holders of J AMES GREENLEAPs
and EDIVARD EOX*J Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent-'
ed, from iate unavoidable tircura(lances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
*rf ready to ifTue toe fame to those who may ap
ply ffstii-n Cxty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
aari thof© who do not, will be confident) as re
iiiKjwiOiing their claim on llie Aggregate Fund
provided tor their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MfLLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. diet
[Volume XI: i.. - r,~ *
yvr; t )i r i \ \ivy xy • . j
•Ofi. r tlla) 1 jt'/trt J*s/fiavftyt•
Continued from ycjltrd-.f, p.nrttc. 1
I informed him,' that on stl form.-rr occa- !
fiors a fi'patate articie hai! i*eeu agiecd to, j'
which appeased to me to a every pur-j
pole tbfy required, and which it was my '
•intention, ai the treaty advaucd, to hive '
pnpofed, as proper to jnak? part of this.
The article (tlie firft of the separate ones in ■
th<r treaty of 17$ l) was then reiii } but
they ol jested to it, as not fully meeting
their vieys. It the title itfelf, as
well 3i t< anv which might be suppos
ed to arise from it, that they objefted. I
could fcaiee allow,myfelf to ireat this mode
of reafc&ing fe.-royfly. I endeavoured to
. make tfiefti feel that it was at ,a
mere word that it was creating difficulties ,
where none tx 1 fled; andthat if all the French
monarch* in the courfr of three centuries had
a'lowed tlifs to stand m the preamble of all
treaties and tranfaAions between the two
-countries, I could not conceive, after its
having bejMl u£ed forfolonj; a period with
out any claim or pi"enCoi) being set forth
in c >nfrq<ienc*of it, how it could now af
ftd ei'.her the dignity, security or impor- '
tance of the republic—that in facl such ti
tles have ever been considered us in'defeafible
and as memorials and' records of former •
grcatnefs, and not as pretensions to pretent
power—and I quoted the titles of the kings
of Sardinia and Naples, 3cc. as examples
exactly in r oint. I argued however in vain, j
* They treated jt very gravely, and made so
ftmg a stand upon it, that I could not a
void taking it for reference, w'oich I tho't
it better to do, than, feeling as I did at the '
moment, to puth the conversation farther.
The second insulated point wis a verf ma- j
terial one indeed, and which, although it |
has been adverted to as a proposal tjjat might 1
poflihly be br»Ught forward, I confcfs came
upon me unexpectedly. It was to aik eithtr
a reftitutioi) of-tbe fliips taken and'deftroytd
at or, an equivalent for tljem.—
They grounded this clajnwfen the Prelimina- !
ry declaration made by lord H o °d on his
taking pofleflion of Toulon, and on the i
eighth article-os the declaration of the com
mittee of the fedious to,him. They said,
peace they hoped was about to be re-eftab
lilhed ; that his mdjelty, in acknowledging
the republic, admitteed that a sovereignty
existed in the French government; and of
course that the <hips held only as a deposit
by England, till thi3 legal authority was
admitted, ought itow to be reftorsd. I re
plied,that this claim "was so peffcfily unlook
ed for, that it wr,s impoflible for me to have
been prodded for it in any iolli tsftions, and
that I could only convey my owu private
fentimt-ntn on it, which were, that they;
could not have devised a flep more likely to
defeat the great end of our mission. One of
the French Plenipotentiaries said, that he sin
cerely hoped not ; that without a restitution
3T the (hips, an equivalent might be found
tojeffeft the pnrpofe desired, since their great
objed was, that something should appear to
prove that this just demand had not been o
verlooked by them, and was not left unfat
isfied by us. I told him fairly, I did.not
r I * • « -xr- • ' ~ I* '* !"'
or how it could be appreciated ; and that,
considering the great advantages France had
already obtained by the war,, and those (he
was likely to obtain from th# ad of coode*
fcenfion I had already intimated tis majesty
was disposed to make -in order to re (lore
peace, I was much surprised and deeply con
cerned at what I heard. I trusted, there
fore, that this very .inadmiflible fpropofal
would be withdrawn. They feid ft wasnoi
in their power; Snd one of them, from a
written \>aper before him, which he said
were his inft fusions, read tome words t? the
effeA I have already ilatod. ■ r,\ sijK;v
Their third quellion was as to* any mort
gage we might have upon !he low countries,
in confeqiieqce of money knt to the Empe
ror by Great-Britain. They wished to
know if any such existed, frnce, as they liad
taken the low coutitrits charged with all
their incunibrinccs, (hey vi;ere tp .declare'
that they (houtt not consider themlelves
bound t'oanfwer any mortgage . giver, for
money lent to the Emperor, fort^piirpofe
of catrying on the war agaiofl them.
I told them, that v.ithotit replying to
this que ft ion, fiipj.ofi'ng the" c..fe to ex'tft,
the exception they reqjirld should havs-bten
slated in their treaty with the Emperor, and
could not at all be mixed op in ours ; that
if they had taken the low countries as they
flood charged with all their incumbrances,
there co\ild be no doubt what these words
»eant ; and that if no exception was stated
in the firft inftajice, none could be made with
a retroaf'.vc
The French plenipotentiaries, however,
were as tenacious on this point as on the o
thcr two ; and as I found to every argument
I used that they constantly opposed their in
flrudlions, I had nothing to do but to de
sire that they vu>uld jjp've me a written pa
per, dating their three claims, in order that
I might immediately tranfiuit it to your
* lordship ; and on this being promised, our
, conference broke up.
Between four and five, P.M. 1
received the inclosed note (N0.16), and I
have 101 l no time since it is in my pofleflion,
in preparing to fend away a meflenger, as
independent of th: difagveeafiile fnbjetls
brought forward in tlrr, lait conference, and
which it is material should be communicated
without delifyV t dm an*ions his mr.jtfty
ihould be informed of whit has passed in
general up t<> this day, it may perhaps
f;.riu'(h fume idtas ; as to the poflible event of
the r.egoi iatioili; • 0') b.. -■ J
(No, I'. Tie fryc! '/the Brili'i v:\nijler
V pull: [led in Saturday't „ Gazette-)
No. 14. A nhte from lord Malmeflbury
to the l'rfrch pltitiptsTFKtiaries, proposing
to retain theSflaticJ of Trinidad in his raojef
ty's full pofuilioV'.' as ! a'crtmfefpiife to th<r
acquifitioh bj't'.c Fiir.ch the SpaViilh
part of St. IDoftiing') ; —and al/o that after
the word® " lefure the war," lu the
14th article of the proceed.ug the
following addition fUotild follow : " With j
the excfption of the to 4'«» tort, and.ellab- |
liilnnen: of the C-?e of G(n« Hopv, and of t ;
the poftrfiliiM belonging to toe Dutcii be- -j,
fore, the war, in the iiland of Ceylon, and |
; Of the town and fort ot Cochht, which (ha!j 1
| be Ceded to his Britaiuuc majesty, in ex- j
change for the town of Negapatnaiu and its ;
'•dependencies," j
No. iy. From the French plenipoteirti-'
, aries, Julv 9, in reply to the ffro- .
mifing a speedy and feridus confide ration of
P the puints fluted, as well as to thepiojet ot-t
, a treaty itfelf, and requetlmg a conference j
. at wie o'clock next iky.
[ No. 16.
From the French lHmipotentiaries to lord
j Malmejiary, dated l-'Jl'-
d The mmifters plenipotentiaries, of the
s French republic lose no time in complying
with -th-* with exprefled to them by the min
,j ifter plenipotentiary of his Britannic majesty
[[ by trar.fmitting to him a note on the three
0 points which were the fnbject of their confer
g ence this day.
1. They have positive orders to require
h the renunciation of the titleof king of France
r. ■ borne by his Britannic majesty. Lord Mai
; mefbury is requested to obfervethat the q«ef
|_ tion is not only a renunciation of the rights
e which might be pretended tobe derived from
r this title, hut further and formally of the
t title itfelf. The eftablifhmentof toe French
republic, and the acknowledgement of thrt»
, form of government by the king of, England
1: i not allow of bis retainig a title which |
q would imply the exigence in France of an or
der of things which is at an end.
t 2-.' The miniliers plenipotentiary of the
c republic are ordered to demand the reftituti-
I on of the veflels taken or destroyed at Tou.
j ion. 4'
t i Great Britain has publicly and formally
1 1 declared that thsfe veflels were taken in trust
e for the king of France. This trust is sacred.
r It inconteftibly belongs to the Republic,
j which exercises the rights and the sovereign
ty that Great Britain attributed to Louis
k j XVII, at the period of the capture ofTou
, lon. Mis Britannic majesty cannot, there -
e fore, in acknowledging the French republic
deny its right to the restitution required, or
to refofe either to make the restitution", or
to offer an equivalent for it.
_ 3. The minifter6 plenipotentiary have or
y ders to demand, and do demand the renun
f ciation, on the part ofhis Britannic majesty
t of the mortgage on Belgium.
s That countiy was mortgaged for the
loaus made by the Emperor in England. It
has become an integral part of the French
e republic, and cannot itmain burthened with
j 1 such a mortgage.
r Theminiftersplenipotnntiaryofthe French
republic request lord Malmefcury to accept
the aflurance of their high consideration.
f (Signed) LETOURNEUR
' PLEVILLE
HUGHES B. MARET
COLCHEN, Sec. Gen, of
t Legation.
Lisle, le 22 Meffidor, sth year of the
Repnblic, July 10, 1797.
No. 17. Adifpateh Lord Gfenville
. to Lcrd Malmefbury. Julst J,t. exoreffive
1 «t»v hum claims 01 the risnctl.
) It states, that any explanation on tKefub
j je£i of the Austrian loans cannot neeeflarily
„ be introduced into the pending negociati
_ on ; that the king neither forms nor has a
r ny intcntioaof forming any demand on the
. French government for the payment of atiy
_ part either of th» interest or capital of these
loans.* It is to the Emperor alane, to the
j Austrian government and its revenues, that
c his majesty and individuals concerned, look
, for the performance of the Imperial engage
j meats." It concludes without adding any
. thing on the two other claims of the Re
public. ... „ / ,
No. 18. Dispatch from Lord Malmefbu
ry to Lord Grenville, July 16, containing
_ an account of the special confarence which j
, he held with the French plenipotentiaries
j en the 10th inft. the obje£ of which was
j to resume the difcuflion of the article of the
. projet, to which the latter had obje&ed in
, their last conversation. One of the pleni
r potentjaries, who obftrved thil, then par
. ticularly mentioned the nth article, and
exprelfed their repugnance to the renewal of
j the treaties therein mentioned, from various
> reasons ; First, because most of therfi were
j irrelevant to the present negociation ; and
j tecolidly, because they were in contradicti
on to the- new order of things in France,
T by acknowledging the King of Great-B.i
tain as pofleflitd of a portion of the • regal
5 'authority of France.',' To this one of his
[ colleagues added, a protestation, that their
4 oply objeft in wishing not to reniw these
treaties, was to give permanency to that
> which they were aboitf forming: that by
. adopting such a number, en majfe, without
t examination, might hereafter oecafion dif
. ficultics. To whieb she Britith minister re
. plied, that the treaties alluded to were
. the-only acknowledgments of the tenure by
t Which the sovereigns of Europe, and paT
r trcularly the French Re-public held their
r dominions, and had become the law of nati-<
ons, it was unwise and unfafe not to renew
1 them in the present negotiation. A " con-
I ciliatory and even amicabJe ? ' conversation
ij tnfued : The French ministers being wil
ls ling to renew such of those treaties as were
1 cojjneftcd with the Condition of Europe,
c} and the Britilh detirous of adopting them
d in tola. They parted to meet again on the
y fame fnbjed. '
a No. i<jf. Frx«n the fame to the fame-, da:-
)8 ted at Lifte, July 16, mentioning the r£-
jf ccipt-ofa n t >te from the French plenipoten
tiaries, (which is Iketched in No. 20) to
■ r which he returned, No. 2t, to which No.
12 is a reply.—A conference was the con
■y tequende of these notes.—Lord Malmefbu
ig ryrjpentd the conv<rrfati«n by observing that
I- it he npderrtood the intention vfthe Direc
itf tbfy it required as afine qaa preliminary, that
(h his Britannick nmjeity (houW rtftot* toeach
er and ailio# 1 liis fueinie j every thing tltat had
lie been conquered during thi ww. If he was
correit in this idea, it would not anlv pre
r«nt the treaty from beginning, but would t
Jtprivc his majesty as njeans of treat- ( t
inj( ; for it could not be. cipecled a treaty, r.
of all cefiion and no compilation would e i
v?r be agreed to. One of the plenipoten- 1
ri:!r>L*s then afiVred his lordship tiut (o far
from wi'fliing to brealc up the negoeiation, 1
it wa» the fincerc wifliofthe DireC\ory that '
it (liou)d proceed haOily, and end fixers
fully ; artjl that jiny proposals which were
not with the'nfacred engage
ments, ftonkl be carefully liftcned to—
Lord Malmefbury after receiving aflfurances
that the DircdWy would listen to ftiptila
tions of mutual coiiceflion and compensati
on, departed from the conference to dif- '
patch the result to his court.
No. ao. The note from the French ple
nipotentiaries to lord Malmefbury, alluded
to above. It states that having just receiv
ed iultru£tions,and orders from the Directo
ry 01 the fubjeft of his.lordlhip's note, it
is necessary re make this declaration—
" There in the treatiesby wJbigh France
is allied to Spain and the Batavian repub
lic, articles by which the three powers ref
peftively guarantee to each the territories
poflefl'ed before the war." The Republic
therefore eftabjifhes as an indispensable pre
liminary of the negoeiation with England,
the consent of his ljritannic Majesty to.the
restitution of <*ll the pofleffions which he oc
cupies not only from the French republic,
but of those of Spain and Batavia. The
French plenipotentiaries in consequence of
this, defirelord Malmefbury to explain him
felf with regard to the fubje& of restitution
and if he is not fufficiently authorized to
consent to it, to fend a meflfenger to his
court to procure the necessary powers.—
The conference for this day was deferred on
account of this communication.
No. 21. From lord Malmefbury in answer
to the foregoing. He declares himfelf not
authorized to accede jto the proposition con
tained in their note ; but that in order to a
void the poflibility of mifunderflaadings on
so iiaportant an occasion, solicits an inter
view for to-morrow, after which he will
dispatch a mcflenger to hi' 3 court.
No. 22. From the French plenipotenti
aries agreeing to the proposed conference
for to-raorrow.
Ng. 23. Dispatch from Lord Grenville
to Lord Mainacfbury dated London, July
20, 1797. It begins with exprefling a con
cern at being obliged to observe that the
claim of the Freneh plenipotentiaries is so
extraordinary in itfelf, and so inconsistent
with their former profeffions, as to afford
but little hope of a hapjiy termination of the
present negoeiation. Althongh the most
natural step would be te terminate at ouce
a negoeiation which, on the footing propo
sed by the enemy, precludes the poflibility
of mutual concession and restitution ; yet
as the French pleaipotentiaries have intima
ted a willingness to listen to proposals of re
ciprocal restitution and compensation, and
in order to leave untried nothing that can
promote the return of peace, it is his ma
jesty's wifti that at the next conference your
lordship represent to the plenipotentiaries of
the French republic, thtt " France, treat
fng in liC * duress tiu«
ant* swtme cjvnnot, with any pretence of
jufticfe or fairnefs, oppafe her treaties with
| them as obstacles in the way of a reafona
] ble proposal of peace in whieh they are in
| eluded." "It never can be allowed, that
j France, Spain, and Holland, negociating
1 jointly for a peane with Great Britain, can
set up, as a bar to our just claims, the trea
ties between themselves."—" This princi
ple even if it wtre admitted,, to operate
could not extend to. private treaties, or to
secret articles."- —Then follows a number of I
obfervatiotis to prdve that' this pretence set
up by France is altogether frivolous and il
lusory ; that if ft)e were disposed to nego
ciate, the treaties of Holland and Spain
need be no impediment :—and concludes
with requcfting his lordship to demand of
the republic a contre-projet, explicitly dat
ing the whole of what they have to ask in
stead of bringing, ferward Csparate poists
one after another contrary to the avowed
principle of negoeiation propoKd by thttn
-1 selves. In complying with this demand, to
which they cannot reafohably objeil, the
direftory will placp the business on its real
issue, and bring diftisftly into question the
several joints on which the coQclufion of
peace or the prolongation of war, vrill real
ly depend.
No. 24. From the fame to the fame,
with the fame date. It conlifts of animad
verlions on the affsrtion refpccting the Por
tngueie fliips at Toulon, made by one of the
French plenipotentiaries, and on that ref
pefting the treaty of Pihjitz. Several ob
servations are made on these topics, whieh
having no connexion with the progress of
the negoeiation, but mad? to remove the
mifunderftandingß tif the parties,-we pmit.
No. 2j. Difpatcn frqm lord Malmefbu
ry, to lord Grenvijle, July 25, acquaint
ing his lordship, thit in the receipt of his
dispatches, Nos. lb and 20, he had ob
tained a Conference us the French republic,
and related to theip 'in the words of >hja in
ftruftions, that the .terms piopofed as a pre
liminary article, .inadmiflible hy'the
king his matter ; and that having already,
on our pact, freely stated in a detailed pro
jet our conditions, it was but reasonable
that We should expfcA a iontre-J» bjet from
them. On the inadmifiibility of their terms,
one oft the plenipotentiaries remarked, that
they could do 110 mere than " take them
for reference ; that such were the orders of
the dtreft«ry, and rtqitefted his lordship to
state in jvriting the several grounds on wnicli
hisrttfejefty rtjefted iheir proposition.—On
the feoond point, he conceived that the
bt-ft method for accelerating the bufincfs*
woura be fov the direitory to furnifh his
lordship with a plam of a contre-projet ; an 3
that till further ihffniftions from the direc
tory the negoeiation could not proceed—
Here his lordship remarked, that he under
stood at a former conference, that the French
plenipotentiaries were empowered to enter
into explanation? concerning mutual reftitu
tion and indemnity ; —if so, he (hould be ♦
happy to proceed to the of any
proposition agreeable to the balls laid down ,
in the projet delivered. After some hesita
tion, one of the French mini&eri replied, ,
that a? the prffent was an important junc
ture of the negoeiation, and perhaps would
be decifisc ps its fate, it would be bed to
i wait an answer on this subject from Pans.
A mutual declaration of w:(hes for a speedy
and happy termination of the negocidtion
followed, and the ministers parted, agreea-.
ing on the propriety there was of each ad
vancing a feparati project.
No, JO. Note from lord Malmefbury, to '
• the French plenipotentiaries. ,
The minitiet plenipotentiary *>f his Bri
tannic majesty his tranimitted to his court,
the;note which was dclivertjto him.tht ijtu
of this month, by the maimers pleoipoten
tiary of the French republic ; and having
received the orders of the king his trader,
on this fubje£t, he ha ft ens to repeat to tiiem,
in writing, conformably to the dclire which
tliey have expressed to him, the following
refleftioos, which he had already Hated to
them verbally, in consequence of his molt
positive inftru&ions.
Heobferves, in the firft place, that to re
quire, "as an indispensable preliminary of
negoeiation for peace with England, the
consent of his Britannic majesty to.the for
mal restitution of all the po(Teflion6 which
he occupies, as well these of the French
republic, as further and formally those of
Spain and the Batavian republic," is to
wi(h to establish a previous condition, which
excludes all reciprocity, refufesto the king
all compensation, and leaves-no object of
ulterior negoeiation.
That the French republic, formally au
thorised by its allies to negociate the articles
of peace in their name, cannot fairly set up
its partial treaties with them, in opposition
to reasonable proposals of peace, since it is
universally understood that the contracting
parties always preserve the power to modify,
by giutual consent, the conditions by which
they may be engaged to each other whenev
er their common interests may require it.;
consequently the proportion made to the
kiyg of a general and gratuitous refthution
as an indispensable preliminary, would ne
ccffarily impute to his catholic majeflyv and
to the Batavian republic, dispositions far less
pacifie than those which animate the French
republic.
Th J, moreover, in conffqupnce of what pafled id
the fir ft conferences, lord Malmefbury has always
thought himfclf entitled to expe& that the king, his
matter, would find a compensation for the facrifice
he was ready ta> make for peace, in"r«taining a part
of hifceortqueft*; and he was the lelsabie to forefee
any obstacle on account of the fee ret articles of the
treaties which bind the French republic, as the prin
ciple of compenCatioa was acknowledged by a for
mal and positive declarat ion made in the riattie of the
Executive Dire£lorv, and communicated in ao oflfc
cial Note, dated the 27th of November, a
declaration posterior to the e©nc ufioa of ihofetici
ties.
It was, therefore in order to remove, as much as
poflTible, every difficulty, that, in the projet of a
treaty which lord Maimefbury has delivered to the
ministers plenipotentiary of rite French republic, the
"alternative was left to France, to fettle thin corn pen
: fat ion on its own*pofieflions, or on those of in all en;
But the absolute refufal of this alternative appears Jo
' ■, Ml ■ r.. IT.I ■ tve
~ ifiuitTcU, and of arriving at an honoraole just and
permanent peace.
1 Lord Malmefbury, persuaded that such cannot t>e
the intention of the French government, hopes, that
in corifequeuce of the rcafons herein Hated, a Condi
tion will not be indited upon, to which his Britannic
m-jefty can by no means consent.
He again retjuefls the romifters plenipotentiary of
the French republic to accept the alTurance of his
high confederation. 1 7
Lisle, 24th Ju'.v. 1797
No. 87. Extiafl of a dispatch from Lord Malmes
burytoLuVd Grenville, dried Liile, Sunday, Aujuil
6. .
' Mv
1 fully when I received the incloTed
note on Fiiday,. the conference propofcd was to ac
quaint me with the in(fru£tions jthe French plenipo
tentiaries had received from the Direfcforv, on the
r.oti? 1 tad flivep in near a fortnight ago, as an aufwer
to that in which the feftitution «f the whole ol h s
mjjefty<» conqtiefts from each of his enemies is re.
quired as an indilperiljole preliminary to all ncjoci-
T was therefore rurprizrd atld difiippoiiited, when
I had takqn ijnjjjplace at .the conferrnce, ta h'-ar liom
the French plenipotentiaries, that the letters theyflad
received that mwrotng from Paris*did not bring any
fpecific iepiy ti*'my last note, butonly wen: to inform
tffcm tlwt the Ijncciorv had' taken the fubje& into
iheir mcift fei ions con fide ration, and would acquaint
them ss toon as pofiVole wi'tf the result.
fctSulf) nnt WbnTcxpreffing my concern and fur
prite thjt there exilled any heGtation whatever in the
mtnd 6f toe Direcioiy on a point, which, although
1 very imr.oitarii, wis certainly a .very litnole out;
That to uVf> remain in doubt, whether his
m»j<.(Ly was to coinpenfation or nnt, was in
other words to leavf it in doabt whether the Direc
loty
I was verv far from wifbTng for any imp oper haste,
or wot to move in a matter ol such magnitude with
bn em ing prudcucc aritl deliberation, yet I could not
fdtbeav lamcoiU-g that more than a month had now
clapled without our having advanced a (ingle Itep,
notwithOanditig liiajelty had, injhe very outlet of
jhe negoeiition, raanifcflefl a modcraiion andfotbear
ance unprecedented under Btnilar ctrcuaiflances :
That,.anxtrusai 1 was pot to prrjud(ce it by any re
preknwtions of mine, I mil ft fay 1h i* delav pUc-ed
uie in avtry-awkwird pofi ion, as I did ut»t perceive
how I could acccutit for it in a way at all fati,fa£>o
ry, at the fame time that it was quite irapofTtblc for
me id luftVr a lodger fp«e of time to pas» over with
out veiling to my court.
Orvc of theFienck plenipotentiariii exprefled his
caineli with that I would write immediaiely ; he
confident this d' would be ften in its true light ;
■ and add d' " S.i nous pas a pas de (eant,
. j efperc qui nousTOaichonsd'un pasfur " And ano
ihtt of thtm repeand tWs phrase.
I expuflvd my fmceie hope that this might be the
1 cale, but it would have much belter proved by
• the tor.imu.ideation of tfe cjunter-piojet they hail in
a manner pledged tWnfelvcs to procure, tlunbv anv
vague and indtcrnJuiate afftirances nf what might
1 poflibfy be the»<fuHof the preleitt lulpfnlion of ali
1 bufineft. They ob'etved to me, that the cru'ter.
pn.jet woit'd of coutfe be (virt.uallvj enmained in
j tbe-sc'nt inftruflions, audltbat their only irtctive for
P wifbingto nie was to convince me that <hts delav
hari nei h'r otigiuatcd withthcni. aor been oa afion-*
) ed, at Patis, by ihe wantof attention 1 » :his impoft
j ant bulicilfi. or from any cau!e nut immediately and
t clofvly cOnnedcd wi;h it.
a 1 desires'. ti'ltnov.' from tV'tm whrn they thought
.« it probable when they ftiouW recriv® p I-itir an J
explicit kiftsudtons, wliether in thres. four.or five
s days.' f'liry -aid, it wuuU be probably" e'ufbt or
ten. Ar.d one of them chfrrvetl, that as i.ur not
- meeting morcfrfquertly gave life to many idleru
_ mcurs md ialfc resorts, he wotrfd ptopofeto me,
if I had rvsjjhjftlioti, t6 rriftt rv;ry other day at
L I 1 o'clock : that it was
nut t*o or three, meetings we might havs r.oth
r ing taateriil to fay, but that we iliould get better
> 1 acquaii.ted w th each other, and In our coimtfa
tion* mutual}' f'Jfcgtft ideas which might be of afe
I readily c'onfented to this.
(To be continued,)
ivrwwr.-wwMM-iwii.i. VII i n» ——immmmm
Xftc Oajette.
PHILADELPHIA,
TDKSDAT EVENING, "JANUARY 9.
1 11 m ■
Ffr the Gazette oj thl United States.
Reflections on Monroe's " View."
No. V.
At mod of this tranfa&lon I am net astonish
ed, as it may have proceeded from violent pre
judice in tavfcr of France, from a diffegard of
the opinions of the executive,and a tUiire to ap
pear allrimpartant in the eyes ofhit favwifena
tion ; but lam aflonifhcd to find, that white
Mr. Monroe insists, and infills with great
pf reasoning, that a compliance with
the treaty w6uld be highly beneficial to France,
amj equatfy beneficial to t lie UhJtAl States, that
he drtl not demand a tomphance. Both ccrtjntri<»
being interested hi its execution,'it was inexcu
ftbk not tt> hive demanded it. But he attempts
to excuf'e hiinf'elf by faying he was if raid France
would 1 la've in turn demanded a compliance with
the guarantee flipulatiort. This was a vain fear :
France knew well that the cafus foederis had not
occurredy and in the Hate of the prffent war
and of pulalid aft'airs, that such a demand could
not be made justice or reason—Above all,
Mr. Monroe fliould Lave bony? in iniml that his
country ij always animated with the put-eft
feutimtnls of honcv and goodfaitb, and always
ready to meet the slaims of foreign nations, and
by these principles to try them. He should
have reflected that at the helm of American af
fairs was placed a man who well understood
the jnterefts of his country, as well the extent
ot the national engagements ; and he should not
have presumed to negleff or counteract the ob
vious intentions,of the executive. Fiom whence
did Mr. Monroe take up the nation that lie was
not to complain of the decree contravening the
treaty His predecessor temonltrated agaiuft
it: The injuries ariling from it had reached eve
ry part of the comment;. ft was neither the will .
of ihe President or of the people that thry
(hou'd be continued ; wherefore then did he en
courage France tt> continue the system of perfi
dy and depredation ? Why did lit debase his
country at the feet of France, by tellitig the re
public to trample on our commerce, and we
■vould 1 (mile under our indign.ties and JiiiTes ?
What offence had (lis country done him that
he should taketb's severe revenge? Why ftjould
its mieifter prostrate it in the dust by a declara
tion no kfs abjedt -tfian pernicious—by a polity
which, while it expbfed tb« United States to ut
ter contempt, Ivcame the, source ofprefent and
I fear of future ills.
These instances ®f mifcanduA, being fully
evident, let us next fie what the President did
when they became known to him. It is to be
lamented he had not then difpl ced him. He
only reprimanded him, as appears in his letter
dated 2d December, in following terms:
" lit your letter you fay that you have not been
inftruifted to desire a repeal of the decree which
violated the 23d and 34th articles of the treaty
of commerce: That you did not know but it
had been tolerated from thefoundeft motives
of political expedience, left the demand for the
rel'cindiog ; it might produce a call for tHe guar
antee. Inde'd you have gone further; having
declared in your memorial (hat you were under
no inftruitions to complain of or vequeft the re
peal of the decree authorising a departure from
those articles, and " that if upon re-confideraticn
after the experiment be made, the tommittee
of ftmoM .of
JMfesany solid benefit to tlk-French republic,
the American government, and yaur country
men in genera!, would riot only bear the depar
ture with patience, but with pleafute."
" The fourth head of injury stated in your
letter, (hews that you were poflclTed of cafe*
wV'ch turned eutireiy upon the impropriety of
p the decree K too was .certainly the faft.
; Now, Svitjioyi the abrogation of the decree so
fir as it rei'peflcd cife, ..the red re f» which
vou were ifl'/lruile.! to. demand could not be ob
tained. fri triith, there was 10 caule or pre-'
ter.ee for alkmg' relief but tipdli the ground of
that/decree hitlng'VioUkd thr treaty. Does riot
this view lead Jo the inevitable conclusion that
the d?;ree,ir operative jasftitu#* idlances,' woUld
' be no less difagrfiftibiej.-autl c.onkquently that
its operation iti future instances ought tobe pre
ventedi a circumftjrtcc wjiicll could bs accop;-
, pii(hed only by a totaf repeal ? /he papers of
the ship Laurens rained a reference to.eue or
more representations of Mr. Worrit, against fn«
decree ; so that the Imfiueik bad been atfttially
broken 10 the government. Neither
these reprefeniations, nor yet your application,
appeal» to have ftiggafted a requifitioa of th*
¥ Kilt, Tiiy pood ft , let tlicfe things be as
tjie.y .will, was it necefliry to intimate thatjtn in
,.lifereii,ce prevailed'in our government z» top
these articles, by a declaration that yov were
not mftruiSed tp complain
fefj I a?» unappr-f-d of the d.tta upon which
fnch ail opinion. couW be founded and un
dr.nbttijly the prtfjdcnt himfelf miuld not un
dertake that the people of the United States
vi.oukl bear with patience a departure from flip
uiations which are generally believed to be im
portant to u»."— (page 116). ,
It is true it foon after jhis, in Jaff
urv r79 -, ijiat tl;e French republic fawca.ufe to
ep'.-al the decree, and perl a;-s this oecafionfd
the President to tske na further rotife ot the
mifcoadtifl of the mihiftcr relative'to this ftib
jeiSt. • But surely, after reading th-- foregoing
documents, few will pretend that Mr. Monroe's
mrfrep: »r eoncefiions coatnbwtad to
produce that effevt. J kno whe has bad the as
. furance to ascribe to bimfeif the Bieriifc 4 is re
peal, wiich without any doi.bt, wastbt conie
quence of the then Rat* of aiTalts in France.—»
> On the other har.d, I rfi ribeiq hi= of .
1 implicit fubmiftiort to the will of a tore if: n pnw
-1 4r, which >the ' Fuoch have iieeii tn.id®
• to believe influences America' with retard
to them, their prefitut system towards ? lyf
. tem winch haviiig modified out treaty wt.b
France on t:.!» prii.riple, is so baneful to cur
i rommcJtte, and (<3' cliAonorable to our r.atu>uax
' that Mr. Monroe t Kprrfletl 'hiiafelf to the com
miitee " not only fiJukly'but libcrafly" a* be
" faV", when he agreed that France mi?frt dif
prufV with certain aitirjcv of the treaty, if it
, appeared to tlum advmtagcMUs so to do. To
_ what length the republic will carry this eoncef
fion, is beyond my power to prediift. It fliail
i 'be leftio the uiifaldi.ig hand of tir*e.
SO IPIO.
t To le Sjlu,
' The time of a Negro Man,
r Who has three years to i-rve ;heii a good troft
t. ler, or cnaclunan, and with lime attention ■woulii
make an excellent Co«k. lit is fold for i.o faults,,
but for want of < anil ant employ. The
t his time, to prevent n'ttaWfitnquirie», is £-3 P.
r Fnc,uire at Kb. Sfl Spruec ftiset.
l- A. t |;.M plate aiay bt-j few tons of dio.ee
r fir ft. crop Hay
t- I lit r.'.onth yth. 3^CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY JANUARY 8.
Mr. Morris presented the memorial of
John Stafford and others, praying to have
permission to fettle on a certain traft of land
in the North wefteru Territory, on paying
an aquitable price therefor.—Referred to a
feleft committee.
A mcfl'age wa-! received from the Presi
dent of the United States* inclosing a report
from the Secretary of .State, with a copy of
an aCt of the ftrtte of Kentucky, approving
of the amendment proposed to the Constitu
tion refpe&irtg the fuabilitybf States, and ,
flatitig that as tliree-fourths of the whole
States had now concurred in their approba
tion of this amendment, it mufl be consi
dered as a part of the Constitution-os the U
iiited States.
The bill authorizing tlie payment of cer
tain films of money to the daughters of the
late Count de Graffe, was read the third
time and pafftd 41 votes to 24.
Mr. Livinglton reported a bill in addition
to the a£t fur the relief and prote&ian of
American Seamen, which was twice read
and commuted for Wednesday.
Mr. withed to call" the atten
tion of the heme to a fnbje& which he
thought it wjb time thry rtjoivd take under .
conflagration - he meam the fubjeft of Wil
liam Blount's impeachment. A report had
been made several weeks ago, which had
laid upon the tahle, without any order be
ing taken uppn it. The conduct of Mr.
Blount, as well as of the British Minister,
and others implicated with him, had much
agitated the Public Mind. He had anxi
ously waiud in expectation of the commit
tee coming forward with articles of impeach- '
tnent which the bouse had pledged itfelf to \
exhibit to the Senate; but as they did not
seem disposed to enter upon the business, he
wished to call upon tliero by a resolution.
He proposed tie following:
" Resolved that the committe be appoin
ted to prepare articles of impeachment a
gainst William Blount, a Senator of the U
nited States, impeached of high crimes and
misdemeanors by this House, with author
ity to fit during the recess of Congrefi, be
direfted to report said articles."
Mr. Harper hoped this resolution would
lie upon the tabic. The chairman of this
committee (Mr. Sitgreaves) it was well
known, had obtained leave of ahfince for
ten days. When he returned, thrreport,
he believed, would shortly be made.
Mr.Dawfoneouldnotbutobje&tothisrefo
lution. No one was more anxious than he
to have tht bufiuefs brought forward. One
of the committee (Mr. Harper) had given
the true reason for the delay. Before the
chairman obtained leave of absence, he him
felf had frequently applied to him to call
the committee together; but, a variety of
other business had prevented him from do
ing so. At this time another member of
the committee (Mr. Bavard) wag ahfgnt—
only three members of the committee were
in the house- The house mull, therefore,
either add frefh members to the committee,
or wait the return of those who were ab
sent.
Mr. M'Dowell was aware of the absence
of the chairman of the committee, and had
waited till the period for which he had as
ked leave was expired, before he brought
forward his motion; but having been infor
med that he bad been frequently applied to
bring forward the report, as he had delayed
to do so, he thought it proper to take this
step in order to hasten the business.
Mr* N. Smith was surprised, that, after
the gentleman who moved this resolution
hud eonfented to the leave of absence for,
the chairman of this committee, he. should
have brought forward his motion. Tf he
had intended to bring forward this propofi
tien he ought to have refufed him leave of
abferrce.
Mr. M'Dowell said, he had no other
view in making his motion than of bringing
the fubjeft before the house ; but if the gen
tUman from Conne&icut would examine the
journals, he would find that five or fix days
had pa ft si nee the pf-riod was expired for
which leave had been obtained for the chair
man of this committee ; and if gentlemen
chose to abfeut themselves from their duty,
it was no reason why the public bufijiefs
should be delayed.
Mr. Thatcher called for the reading of
the jeurnal, by which it appeared that Mr.
Sitgreaves obtained leave of absence on the
26th ult. for ten days.
• The resolution was ordered to lie upon
the table.
Mr. Dwight Fofler, from the committee
of claims, made a report on the petition of
John Frank, a soldier, who was captured by
the Indians on his way home, afttr he was
discharged from the service of the United
States. The committee recommend that
the petitioner (honld be paid, during the
time of his captivity, the fame as if he had
continued in the service of the United States
-—Committed to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Coit moved the order of the day on
the bill for the relief of the legal repieftn
tatives of certain dcceafed officers and sol
diers ; whtcfi being agreed to, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
fubjeft, Mr. Dent in the chair, when the
bill was read as follows :
" Be it cnac'.fd, &c. That the representa
tives of such officers and soldiers of the ar
"myof the United States, as difcd after the
twenty-fourth day of March, in the year
one thonfand
and before the third day of November in the
fame year, (hall.be entitled to all the emolu
ments to which the said officers and soldiers
would reflectively have been entitled, if
they had lived to the end of the war be
tween tlv United States and Great-Britaiu ;
and that the accoitntiug officer? of the trea
sury, be, and they are hereby nuthorifed
anddiredted to allow the claims of such re
prefsritajrvej, on application and proof
■ m-ide within the term of years
from the pafSilg < ; f this aft."
Mr. B'ount- laid he never could fee any
reafor. why the rejjrefentatives of soldiers
who died in the service, ought not to have
the fame commutation of lands .is those who
Were slain by the enenW, finee the loss wa3
the fame to their surviving friends. He had
before attempted to introduce this principle
into our laws, & tho' he had been unfuccefs
ful, be wi!hed again to take the fenfeof the
committee of the whole upon it, and pro
■pofed an amendment to this effeift.
This motion was 6ppofed as being in it
felf of a queilionable nature, but more par
ticularly-a* being unconnefted with the pre
sent bill, which, it was said, went merely to
I determine the time at which the war ought
to be considered as at an end. The mo
tion was at length negatived; there being
only 7 votes for it, '•
Mr. Pinckney moved to ftvike out the
24th of March, and to insert in its placethe
11 til of April, the day on which hostilities
ceased, and whieh he considered as the pro
per termination of the war. He could not
fee with what reason the 3d of November :
had been fixed upon ; it was indeed the day
upon which congress discharged the army,'
but it could not be considered as the day on
which the war terminated.
Mr, Livingfton called for a division of the
question ; firit to agree to ftrifce o%t, and
" then to infest.
Mr. Dwight Foster seconded this motion.
He was not convinced thai it was necessary
to interfere in this business at all, as he was
not certain whether more injury would not
be done to the community, than would o
ver balance any benefit which might accrue
to individuals by the proposed measure.
This bill, he believed was intended to relieve :
two individuals w'nofe petitions had been be- |
fore them. He prefußned there might be!
several others in the situation. The cafe of
Mrs. Alexander, whose husband (Major-ge
neral Sterling) died in January 1783, had
lately been before the house. The provis
ional articles of peace were signed in Novem
ber preceding. The accounts of the offi
cers and soldiers of the army were fettled
up to the jd of Nov. 1783 ; but there
Were a number of cases of persons dying and
leaving widows and orphans, betwixt the :
period of signing the provisional articles
and that period, who had received, agreea
bly to the provision in such cases, feren years
hglf pay. But if this bill were adopted,
these widows and orphans might many of
them again come forward, and claim a com
mutation of land. He did not suppose it
was the intention of the house to invite all
these accounts for a'frefti settlement ; if it
were, he should wi(h an earlier period to be
fixed upon than that proposed.
Mr. Evans proposed to strike out all the
"bill after the enafting clause, which he con
sidered as being somewhat contradiftory, in
order to introduce words which went ex
pressly to declare the period of the termi
nation of the war.
Mr. Gallatin waseppofed to this motion.
He cbniideveel tire war as terminating cither
on the day on which the provisional articles
were signed, or the day on which the defi
nitive treaty was executed. The prelimi
nary articks were signed on the 20th of Ja
nuary, 1783 ; but if the committee insert
ed this day, it would not answer the pur
pose of the petitioners, who prayed for
commutation, as that was not provided un
til the 22d of March, 1783, and of course
officers dying before that time could not
be entitled to it, but to half pension. What
day, then, should be fixed ? It would be
improper to fix any time,he said, as the con
clusion of the war ; the committee might
agree upon any period for the comp<yifati
on of our citizens. But did nothing else
he asked, depend upon Congress fixing a
period at which the war ended ? SitcJiSde
termination would very materially affe£t the
. provifioas of the treaty of 1783. It was
not ourintereft to determine the war fended
at an earlier period than had been afted ti
poni He thought the 24th of March the
belt time which could be fixed upon, in re
lation to our own army, as it was the day on
which Congress received the firft intimation
that peace existed.
Mr. Allen moved that the committee rife
and a fit leave to fit again, in' order to obtain
farther information 011 this subject.
Mr. Varnum was opposed tothi* motion
he thought the quetlion might as well be
. decided now as hereafter. He did not
think it prudent, when Congress had deci
ded any . important question, to agitate it
anew, except there wJI some good reason
for it. Congress had determined the war
1 to close on the 3d of November. He tho't
the war could not be considered as closed
t until the definitive tfeaty was signed. He
f should, therefore, be against {he bill alto
gether, as he thought Cbngrefs might as
' well fix upon any other day for the termi
nation of the war as the 24th of March
; or I' 1? 11 tli of April. He did not know
but there would be as much justice to in
clude persons who died after the provision'
al aiticles were signed, or indeed all who
died in the feryice, as to include the per
-1 sons proposed to b* covered by this bill.
Mr. Macon seconded the motion ; be
' canfe, when leave was asked to fit again, the
sense of the house could be taken whether
! leave would be granted for a further Confide
| ration of the buliiu fs. The end of the.war
t had been determined, he said, by a competent
■ : authority, by that authority which had en
- »lifted the soldiers and commissioned the of
ficers. This day was the 3d of November.
■lf this bill puffed, it would prove an opening
, 1 wedge to all the old fetllemtnts, The pe
; tition upon which this business was brought
| forward, he allowed, war. a hatd cafe ; but
I after a decision had been acted upon for four
; teen years, he did not think it would be
proper for them to fay been
tr.iftakeri in this important matter.
After a fewobfervations from Messrs. Coit
! Dayton and Otis, against the motion(ri the
■ course of which it wis asserted that Con
*
greis never made any declaration as to the
terminatieh of the war but that the 3d of
\ November was merely the day on which the
army was dffbanded)and a few words from
Mr. Livingfton in favour of it, the qttsftion
for the committee's riling was carried, there
being 47 votes for it. And the motio-fl for
leave to fit again was carried 42 to 30 f
A report was received from the Secretary
of the Treasury, on the ful.je£t of excepting
certain claims from the operation of the limi
tation a&s in confeqtienceof a resolution of
>the house of the 14th lilt, which was refer
red to the committee of the vvhiile on the
fubjeft. 1
AnotheJ report was alio received from
the fame department, inclosing ilatements j ,
of goods, wares and marchandize imported
into the United States, for two years, from 1
the rft of October 1794, in purfuanc* of a
resolution of the houle of the 3d of March
lalh Ordered to be printed.
Mr. Livingston, from the committee of !
commerce and manufa&ures, made a report
on the petition of the wharf-bolders, See. of
! Charleston, stating that the committee'had
| found that the practice of wharf-owners em- '
; ploying persons to weigh goods, had been a 1
great inconvenience both to importing
merchant and revenue office rs ; that fntheir
opinion the.claim of the wharf-holders was
unreasonable in itfelf, and ftib»erfjve of regu
larity, but as fufficient means were taken to
prevent any future interruption ofbulinefs,
they ftippofeno interference of the legislature
was necessary.
Also, on the petition Natltaniel Cutter,
who had exported certain "goods from the
United States, buc which, from a variety of
untoward circumltances, were brought back
again to the United States, and were fub
jefted to another duty. The committee de
not think it a cafe in which relief can be
granted.
A'fr, on the-petitions of William Dixon,
and other*, praying tolie rsimburfed certain
forfeitures incurred by omiflions and infor
malities with refpeft to the registering of
veflels. The committee decline recommen
ding relief in these cases.
The consideration of the two former re
p«rts was postponed till to fnorrow ; upon
the latter no order was made.
Mr. Kittera alked and obtained lleava of
absence for eight days.
Mr. Dwight Foster moved that the Com
mittee of Claims have leave to report by
bill orotherwifc in the cases of claimants to
be placed on the Pension Lift—Agreed.
The fam£ gentleman also moved that the
petition of James Maury, Consul at Liver
pool, be referred to the committee who has
under consideration the fubjeft of ad
vances made by Consuls abroad—Agreed.
Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON* January 2. .
Extraft of a letter from Salem, dati;d yester
day.
" Oapt. Batchelder, rn tht SKfjj Rajah,
arrived here on Satarday evening in 49 days
from Bourdeaux
" Capt. Phillips, passenger in the Rajah,
saw a letter from Mr. Pinckney, to the
mailer of an American fhipat Botitdeaux,
desiring a passage for himfelf, and Wmily, as
he expefted to leave the Republic from ne
cessity in about 25 days. He affijjned no
reason for the expeftation; and as a similar
application does not appear to have been
made by the other gentlemen, perhaps he
thinks it will be expedient for him to come
home for frefh inftruftions. Mr. Deblois
writes from Paris, that it is his private o
pinion wai between France and America,
will probably take place in 3 months—cer
tainly in fix."
M
\-rrom French papers to Nov. 11, received by
tine ei r 'rval (it Salem, and politely
to kj.J
PARIS, Oiiober 27.
Bulletin of Paris. New? from Madrid induce
us to hop'.-that the queen of Portugal, after the
molt profound tefitvlions, will ratify the treaty
concluded With Frir.ce.
The number of persons iccufed of eonfpiracy
arretted in the department of Eure and Loire,
are forty twa —They arrived at Paris on the
15th of Vendemaitr, m nine carriages, and
have been conducted to the" prisons of the tem
ple.
Marmot, aid-de-camp to Buonaparte, iillill
at' Rome j he appears to be watching the cou
rt udt of the pope, to aftfertain the definite man
ner in which we ought to condutft with refpedl
to him.
ißih. We hear from Berliji, that the kimr
»s iu the greatefi danger, and that hii
death is.Uily e>.pcOled.
They write from Tufcany, that an English
fq\iadroo rrf ten ships of t e fine are failing to
wards Nauies, o effeft a re-union with the
Neapolitan fleet, in order to expel the Vene
tian fleet from the Adriatic Gulf.
The qoorf ot Naples continues its hostile pre
p»ra t'orts, and threatens to make a diverflou in
to the Sauth «f Italy, if peace is not concluded.
The qotthtil in the general committee of yes
terday, ratified the treaty of alliance offenfive
and defeiHtTe between the French rep»Mic and
his majefly the king of Sardinia, agreeable to
which the Utter power «ngages to fnrnilh
'to France in c ar:ry, 1000 cavalry,
and 40 pieces of c«nn»n, the whote at hu ex
penccj and under his pay, to hallen the con
(lufton of the continental peace, and to inl'ure
the fwtufc tranquillity of Italy —it is only a
9aind the emperor of Gerrrany that this alliance
is to be executeci—the king 6fSardi) ii is to re
main neutral with relpeift t<> F.ngland and the
other powers who may be (till at war with
French republic.
'Noveml er 4.
The secret articles of the treaty concluded
wjth the emperor, have already been pMt in ex
ecution, the Auftrians have already e\'*cuated J
Mayenre, which our troops have tikes pfflef
fiO* of.
Trouve, cidevant editor of the monittr at
prrjcr.t, secretary of legation at Naples, will ex
ercile thtre the fui ftions of" charge dtS affairs,"
of tl;e republic, while T1 eilhacd will be employ
ed in the at Riftiot
All the journals received from the depai t
ments are filied v. ith details of civic ffftivali of
j vrhitjt the pcaje with the emperor is the objefl
an even: which has be:n rele' rctcd- thr ughon'
the republic by illufr.inaticns and other ip'.cfitl d (
deincnfUatioiis of public joy. i
ROME, October 7 . i c
The new French minister, the brother of Bti ! ■
onaparte, had a very long tonferencc yeltcrtay 1
withe the Cardinal secretary ol ltate ; it is tho': r
the fubjeift . wss a new contribution ot 12 mil
lions and the ceflVtu not the dutchy of Urb-no {
and Ancona.
RATISBON, CXloher ij. !?
Agreeable topolitive advices, the thrp« so! a
lowing perfoni? have been added to the lujptrul £
embaify -to the Congreis Mr. Blruf, lerrct-u y
of the cabinet, who fir.ee the commerv ement qt J
the war lias dirtied the aft«ifs ot the empire ir. t
the iitil tiry (.irpartmenr it the head quarters Of
the commander in chief; Mr. Schrvn , ft*, ret v r
ry of the Imperial legation, and Mr- Blunt, i
COtji;cc{Jor of the hilhoprick of Strasbourg.
We learn tkat flnre rfte late.refolutiqn of the b
executive directory, the queen of Portugal has
ratified the treaty between Portugal and there- si
pubiic. v
ALBANY, Januarys.
OuSundiy evening last, upon an alarm of fire, Mr
Wattles, Member of 'he Legifl-c ure for Dciawarf
county, in Hepping out of a koufe, fell, and ttrutk
his head so violently the ftcps of the door, a» f ;
to rcm er him immediately iufenfible—in which ftatfc f"
he has continued ever fuice. On examination, no
ex e»nil injury can be found-. There is very little .
hope of tio recovery.
B\LTIMORE, Ja»uary 5 .
We learn by a gentleman who left Norfolk Hx days ]
ago, that the Fame, captain Brufenberg. from Bre- i
men for had arrived there-—fbe was fallen
»n with by a Fjeneh'pnvatctr. the commander of
which had au altercation with cap). B. and f
he refufed lo take fame prifonrrson board withou:
provificmp, wa» thrown'overboard, aiid but fwr the |
adllUncrof his own crew, liiuft have perilhed
• V- v >•»■»--' •' •,f T t -
■t-ux 1 ay-11 in 11 lii ■■ . . rnmtmmmm <
%\n <3sasttte«
PHILADELPHIA, •
TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 9.
_________________________ •
Yesterday afteriiootivthrer fellows who had broke '
open ahoufe over Schuylkill, and afterwards rob- ■
hep H'l i cruelly treated a man who was coming to
t»wn, were taken up a«d commuted to jail. The
man. though much bruised, was able to follow the
villains, and traced them to their rendezvous,
where by the help of a number of Conllables, after
some refinance they were taken. ,
APPOINTMENT Br AUTHORITY.
1 Joseph Pitcairn, of New-York, Consul
at Hamburgh—vice Samuel Williams, ap- -
pointed Consul at London.
Office of the Insurance Company of the
State of Pennsylvania, January 8, '9B.
At an Eleftion held this day for thirteen (
Diredtors for the preferit year, the sol- ]
lowing gentlemen were duly eleded : J
James S. Cox j I
John G. Wdchfmuth '
Abijah Dawes
Thomas Fitx/imont
Samuel IV. F'tjher
Merdecai Lewis . <
George Latimer ' t
Henry Pratt 1
John C. Stocler '
Joseph Sims ,
Daniel Smith
Jeff, Wain
William Smith
• . o
January 8, 1798.
At a meeting of the Stockholders of the 1
Philadelphia and Turnpike road, the fol
lowing gentlemen were "defied as officers
10 serve for th« present-year.
President.
Ellijlon Perot i
Managers.
Ed-ward Hand
Abraham Witmer
Richard Downing, jun.
Richafd Thomas
William Sanfom
Jacob Downing
Thumas M. Willing
James C. Ft/her
JoJiah Hemes
Godfrey Haga
John Cur it) en
George Aflon
Trcafurer.
Tench Francis
Secretary.
William (jo r Mt.
At an annual meeting of the Mutual As
sistant society of Hair-drefiers and Surgeon
Barbers, held on the 2d inft. at Mr. Ec
feldt's tavern; the following persons were
chosen officers of the institution—.
President John Murdock
Vice President John Uhl
Treasurer Vincent Ducomb
Secretaries John Philips, Gtorgt Abbot
Stewards George Vatiderflice
Michael Bowers.
After Supper thefollowing toasts were drank
1. The Gkizetiß of the United be
it their pride to boast, of being the freeft and
happiest people on the face of the Arth.
2. The President of the United States ;
may the sense of his ufefulnefs in the Cabinet
during our revolutionary war, never be eras
ed from the minds of his fellow citizens.
3. The Vice President of the United
States.
4. Our Commiffionersat Paris; maytheir
.united efforts speedily tend to an amicable
adjuftmentof the differences betweenthe two
governments.
j. Both houses of Cofigrefs; may they
continue to give proofs to the world, that
they represent a nation of freemen, who are
determine*! not tamely to furr«nder up their
rights to any power in the univcrfe.
6. The Governor and Conftitlited Au
thorities of the. State of P'unfylyania.
7.'Health atfd'happinefs to the belt of
citizens, George Washington.
8. The Army and Navy of the
States.
9. Agriculture and Commerce; may we
be fenfihle of their dependence uptrn each <Si>
ther, and how necelfary their unioa is to
the prosperity, happiness and independence
I of our Country.
r ■ * •
ic. The humane citizens cf Philadelphia
1 uho ftept forth in the late calamitous dif
eak- to alleviate *the afflictions and diiireflVs
. 6f their fdlo.v creatures.
11. The Hcadcof ail Seminaries of Learn
ing ; may their nfefulnefs command due
reipeft aT>d esteem.
t2. The best and most beautiful part of.
the creation, woman.
I?. May the arfogance of Arillocracy
and the turbulence of Democracy be over
awed by the firm and steady band of true re
publicanism.
14. May those who are just and generous
in profp'crity, never want friends in adverfi
-15. May the mast who has spirit to de
fpiie his ehemies, and gratitude to cherish
hisfriends, never want a good dinner, and a
bottle of wine to wash it down.
16. Our Institution; may it continue to
support the humane principles eh which it
was founded."
- • • • *• 1
£/" The Editor having received f4 .Tra 1 applica
tions per pott, ift co'fequfnce of Jtl: adveriif njent
lor a perf.jn to perform a jourarf f to the Ohio—ti>
fare trouble aQdt eipance inform* than the adverti
ser has been accommodated. jaa 9
GAZETTE- MARINE L IST\
Bourdtaux Nov. ix. Sailed the Rajah,
Batcheldur, of Salem : the Annah, 01 N.
York ; the Louisa, of Philadelphia.
The Cygnet of N. York ; Doljihin, Bo- •
fton ; and Caroline, failed, from Havre, Nov.
2. The Aurora, of Charkfton, failed
: from Bonrdeaux, Oft, 27.
The: Zenohia, from Providence, at Bour
-1 deanx. Nov. 2.
The William, Wells of Boltimore, was
at Havre, Oct, 20.
Ship Lucia Meek, 5 months fromCalcut-
arrived at Matb'thaad yeSerday.
One of,the much celebrated f.ift-failing
Salem Ketches, was lately fold at Bourdeaux
, and in a few days fitted out as a. privateer.
: NEW thS^tre.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
JANUARY 10,
Will be presented (by particular drlirc, and far
the lad time this season) theHiftorical Plcy of
• CQLUMBUS;
Or, a World Dtfcovered.
" To which will be added (for the ft cond time) a
Grand Anacreontic Pantomime Ballet, called,
THE ANIMATED STATUE ;
: Or, Triumph of Lcgee,
A Quarterly Meeting
' of the Society for the institution and support ®f
Eirft Day or Sunday School Ssciety, will be held at
John Ely's school rijom, in. Third, near Mulberry
] street (adjoining the Prefbyteiian meeting house)
at 6 o'clock to-ftiorrow evening, j'ft Month, loth.
GEORGE WILLIAMS, Sec'ry.
ill mo, 9th. tw
i At a Meeting of the Directors
, of the Inljrance Company of Norlh America, at
| their office this day, the dividend for the la.ft fix
months Was declared to be one dollar and fifty
1 cents on each flsare of the (lock, which will be
I paid to the Stockholders, or their lejal reprefenta
! ti'ves, on any day after the i&hinft.
EBEN. HAZARD, Su'ry.
January 2 . 9 —w«tiSth
W. Haydon,
Delineat»r of Drawing—from London,
Z (Where be has Itudied fevetal years under one of
the moll eminent matters in t' at feience)
FNfOR.N!3 his iriends, be has re-coramenc
' A. Ed his private tuition Terms, as usual, Six
1 Dol'ari per month, for attendance three times a
wcelc. Likewise, allkinds of Ornamental taint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on theiabove terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his tcrtns will be particu
larly advantageous to thofc tjiat employ hirn, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils In one family.
A lifie diredled to W. H. left at the office of thit
Gi zette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. §2w
FOR THE CURF OF
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders of the Brcajl and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CERT fFICATE.
" I hfcreby certify, that I have beeh cured of a
mod !evere Couyb, Cold, an t fsvere pain in my
bread, by taking only a few deles ot Dr. C»u«ca'»
Cough Drops. , CHARLES BEVAJ43,"
Sail Maker, Spruce llreet wharf, Philadelphia,
From a London Paper.
n To Dr. GHURCPf.
>■ : :
re Having been recently restored from the brink of
the grave, ;by your invaluable medicine, I think it
my eiuiy ;o mak' this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others affii&cd with a
similar complaint. I had ben .ifflided with a mofl
dreadful adthnia for about twenty-three years. I
Jt never for years got any reft, my cough was M
:r )üblefo''-e in the night; and used to.discharge an
almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
. from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
fh.ort that I could not walkacrofs my roon. Pro
>£ vi. en;ially hearing of your Cough Drops, 'I took
id them ; and, through taking them alone, lam now,
bleflfed be God! restored to perfedthealth My
. cafe is well known to the members of the Ebene
' zer Chapel, in Lihcoln's-Inn-Field, ps which lam
p . *lfo a member ; andanylof tlfem gladly fa»
1- tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth ot what I 1
fay. I am, bjr, yonr grateful fervaftt,
•d NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Greac Wiitimill
Huy r market.
lr Wirnefj,
lc N. Lingwohtht, jun.No 40, h
ro 1 u'tney street, Goldeftrfquwe. - ,
;y CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
at Are prepared and !o'd (only) by the inventor ard ,
re sole r ropiietor, Dr. Jtimes Church, at li'i M di
cine Store, No. 1 Scurh I'hird-ltreJT, r.iVt tkf M:r.
lr ket, Philadelphia-, and by apj/Mntfntffet, at New-
York, by Mcffrs btapl:s and Co. 169 Pearl-street,
U- aad Miss Wedman, 112 Wiiliara-ftreet.
Dr. Cnureh may he co: fulted every day, at '"is
office, South F.oit-ftreet, Phi'.aia'phia.
January 9. - tw*
ed ~ TO LEl\
A front Parlour, suitable for
jve an Oftkr ; a Room, urnilhelor unfurnilhed ; and
i large Cellar, which will serve ether for ftorsgs
! nr a ucttling cellar. Enquire at Jno 24, Scuti
to fifth-ftreet.
ce Boarding and Lording to leha 1- Enquire as a
bove. Jan 6.—*JtPROPOSAL S
FOR
CARRTING TilF. PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General I'd ft Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PKNNSYf.V A&IA, 'Jtc.
1. From Philadtlpl.ia by vl'ilmington, Newcaf
tlc, CaMwcll's bill !?e, Duck, m.'-'t, Dov;r, Fred
erics, Milford, Clooghs, Pagftnr; ugh, Trap,
Snowhill, H irnrtswn and Account court house to
Northern, >n court house three tinvs a week.
' Air p. i h x.vtniitr if. Leave Philadelphia ev
er* i'jel lay, ThutWay and Sa'nrday at a <* M.aid
arrrive at flr rthamptcs ennrt house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at 7J f « Retwrn'mg. Leave
Northampton ;ourt house every Friliy, Monday
a'tf -
J'Kh oa M+iida/, We'.lnefday and Friday by 7 l-J
p m.
Nrj- ticr 15 to April I, Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefl y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m,
«id arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wcdnefday by 7r m. Returning —
Leave Northampton court hottfi every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Fi iday and Monday I
by 7 pm.
VIRGINIA.
2. Prom Northampton court house to Norfolk
three timesawrek-
April I to Nm*irr tj. Northampton
Court house every Monday, Wcdnefday and Fri- ,
day at 8 pm, and arr ve at Norfolk in Z4 hours.
Jieturwn-—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
lo i court house in twenty four houn.
.NtvuiAer If to April I. Leave Northampton
court house everyTiiefday. Thursday and Saturday
at 3 a u, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. Re
taming — ! .eave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdiief- I
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA MART LAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port.Cbrifliana.Middletown,Warwick andGoergc- j
town croft roads to Chefterftonrnthreetimesa week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
Swday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m, andar- 1
rveat C heller town the next days by 8p m. Re- I
turning —Leave Cbeftertown every Monday, Wed
nesday and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by If*.
November I /• May I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheflertown on Tucfjay aud Saturday by 4 p m.
Jtcturning—Le»ve Cheflertown every Monday and
Friday kyg a m, an* arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuefcay and Saturday by 4 e m.
MASXLANt>.
4. From Cheflertown by Centervilie, Eaflon,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill andPrin
cef9 Ann ta Salisbury once a week-
Receive the mail at Cheflertown every Wednes
day it 7am, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave
E:i lion on Thursday by 6 A M, arrive as ShowhiH
on Friday by I r. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 P.
M. Returning—Leave Princtft Ann on Saturday by
10 a m, arrive at Eaflon the next day or Monday
by' 6pm Leave Eaflon on Tuesday by 8 a M,and
arrive at Cheflertown fame diy by 4m,
5. From Harford by BM-Air to the Black herfe
ona* a week.
Leave Harford every TVefday by 10 A M, and
arrive at Black korfrf by 6 f -M. Returning—Leave
Black horse on Wcdnefday by 6 a m, 3nd arrive at
Harford the next) Tuefijay by 9 a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GINIA.
6. Prom Baltimore by Blatkhorfe toYofktown
Pa.' once a week;
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Bl«eHio»fi: on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 rm. Returning—Leave York
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorittown by Hanover, Peterfbttrg,
Taneyton and Frcdtritktown to Leefburg once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m, arrive
at Fredcritktown on Tu;fday by 5 p m, andarrive
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 1P m. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, andarrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotltown, Gettilburg,
Fairßeld, Iliiabethtown, Willianslport, Martinf
burg;, Winchefer, StevenfbArg and Strafburg to
Woodllo'ck once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by II am. Leave
Martinfburg 011 Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
flock on Wednesday by 6P m. Returning—Leave
Woodflock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by II a m, andarrive at York
town on Sunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittfburg by Cannorifburg, Wafhmg
ton, Wsft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fifhirg creek once a week (contrail for one year
onlyi)
1 Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a si, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Sunday at 9a m Return
ing— creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a u.
10. From Washington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 a m, and arrive
at Washington by 6P M. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p M. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Frederick town, Eliza
hcthtown, Greencaftlc and Cbamberiburg to Ship
penfburg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, attli
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Mnnday by 7p m. Retorting-*-Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at 0 a m, arrive at Eliaabetbg
town at 8 t m, at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore ou Thnrfday by 5 * m.
MAHYI.AXU.
la. From Eliiaoethtown by Haneock and OM
town to Cumberland once a week .
LcaveCumbeiland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizabetlitown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive *t Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 t u.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Anrapolis by 5f m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 tm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolit, Queen Ann«,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobaeeo, Al-
Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at ICVa m, arrive
at Annapolit at $r x. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 m. & arrive at
Leonarduiv. n every Monday forenoon by yo'clock.
Returning— Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
r M, arrive at P.fcauway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wedacfday by
11 au, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p a. Leave
Aumpolis on Ihurfjay by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by3p *.
15. From AnnapoKs by I.owcr Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court huUfe to St. Leon
ards' itnoi a week.
Leave Aniiapoß' every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards mn Monday by 3r m. Re
turning—Leave St. Leonard' every Monday at 4
r m , and arrive at Aitup-.ii* the next Saturday by
6 am.
16. From Cla4cr.fir»rg by Uj>p<r Mar'.borough,
Not hi ;!\- v., ! atrcrM 1 1' or,ugh, Acq iafcc,"cn
11 diS ap-i OhirF trciul'. to Cliaptieo ok« »
Lttfe slllenfbar,; v' ry Saturday at 9 » m,ar
rive -:C 'Jnj)Or Marl j by noon and at Lo#cr
VI >ll taV by J P m, & at Chaptico
by C r m. Retn'-ti f —l.e(ivr< UapaieneveryThuif
dav at 6 m, and arrive at Biadcntburgon Satur
day at 6 a m.
17 Fro -i Georgem-vn by Montgomery court
house to Fr.derick-.owuoncea week.
Leave Gejrg;town every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Frc dericktuwn by 6 pm. BLr'uruing—
Fredericktown every Thursday Wy 5 A m,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 pm.
VIRGINIA.
IS, From Wco.lflock by Newmarket, Ro< k! n
hm court house, Staunton, Lexington and Ficc-if
tle to Big Lick once a week.
Leave Woodflock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Sta'.iman on Friday it Ir »■ Leave Staun
ton every Friday at 1 pm,'arrive at Big Lick on
Sunday by II a m Returning—Leave Big l-'
on c utiday by 1 * m, arrive at Staunton every
day by 11 am. Leave Staunroaa by 11 o elock
)nooo) and arrive at Woodflock on Wednesday by
5 ' M.
; 19. From Big Lick by Montgom-ry courtlioure
j and Wytlie court house to Abingdon once a week,
j Leave Big Lick every Sunday at IP m, arrive
at Wythe court house 011 Tuesday by a p m, and at
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm- Returning
. Leava Abmgdon every Tburfday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by % p m, aniar
| rive at Big Lick on Sunday by II a u,
TENNESSEE.
10. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville, Moffat's Uore and J efferfon court house
to Knoxvllie once a w>;ek.
Leave Abingdoa every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffau (lore on Saturday by 8 r> m. Leave
Moffiti by 9"a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by 1 r x, arrive at MofFats on Monday
by 3p m. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4 PM,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 p M «
VIRGINIA.
11. From Winchefler by Romney to Mooifields
once a week.
Leave every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Moorfield on Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
arrive at Winchefler on Sunday by 6 P M.
21. From Alexandria by Centervilie, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 am.
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
•3. From FrederickAburg by Port Royal, Lay
toos,Tappahannock, Urbinna and Gloucefler court
house to Yorktown oticc a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at f> a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
atJTappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at Frederickfkurg on Tuefda'y by 5 PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Weftmoreland couTt house, Kinlale, Far'n
ham church and Northumberland court house to
Lancaster court house once a week'
LeaVe Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive"at Lartcaller court house on Satui day by 11
a Returning—teaVeLaAcaftfer court house ev
ery Saturday by ( PM. anil arrive at Tappahan
nosk on' Monday by 11 a m.
Is. From Fre'derickihurg by Cwlpeper court
house &Orangec. h. to CharlotttfvilleonCe a week.
Leave Frederickfturg- eVety Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at' Fredferidtflwirg. on T*ef
day by 6 a m.
26. Fr»ra Richmond by Goochland court
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 r m, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by II A M,
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at
Staunton «n Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 p m, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A m.
27. Frum Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, aud
arrive at Greenbrier Court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
houfeevery Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
28. From Charlettefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Amherft court house,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thurfdiy at 1 p
m. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave LyneJiburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by lo A M,
29. From Richmond ,by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in itages as often a> they shall run.
Leave Richmond evwy Wednesday at 5 a m,
arrive at Todds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 p m.
30. From Richmond by Hcpkins's, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,.
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-London by 10 am. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by j r m, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 P M, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 p M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
t!e once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and airive at Fineattle o» Saturday by 6 r m .
Rtturning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tiiefday noon.
3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once.in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at MJrtinville on Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave M.rrtinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 r m.
33- From Princ<# Edward court house by
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince EdwaH court house every Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court honfe
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court huufe on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
rive at Prince Edward court honfe on Sat*rdiy
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA andNORTH.CAROI.INA.
3s. From Halifax court-house by Halifax old town,
Carteis, Martirtville, Patiick court-house, Upper Sau
ia, Gcrmantnwn and Bethania to Salem once in two
wicks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
», PM, and arrive at Sal(m ihe next Monday hv 6,
PM. Returning—LeaveSalem eve'y other Turfday
at 6, A M, and ajrive at Halifaxcowt-honfe on Fri
day by 10, A M.
Fiona Hairis's by Hickes'aford 10 Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
5, A M. and airive at Halifax by 6, P M. Rciurn
inj>—leave Halifax every Tliuifday and Sunday by 6,
A M, and arnve at Harris's by 7, P, M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Sinnhfield by Southampton ccart-lgufe
to Hickes's Kid once a week.
Lea*« Hicki'tfeni Tvry Mb r Tr: Uy by z, P v .f,
at» 1 vuiu.'v ld oJI Satcriay by 5, P M
Iletarniag—T.eaveS TiithKeTd eveiy other vinrlay by
5, a M, and arrive 4t oa Monday by
2. P M.
FrmnGoldfonsbyG'efbridge, St. Tammanv's
mnri<f* tl.fe ro Goidicwi's -ncr a week.
Lea v e GoldCon'»eveiv Wednesday allo, A. M» and
re'iru enext Saturday by PM, wailing at each
Pd(U<> ncc 2 h*ur» alter delivery ol the mat .
rtftGlXiA & NO iTH-CAHOLINA.
Q O .. From Suffolk by Edemon, Plymouth and Wa
every Monday at noon, arrive at on i'uef
davaM, P M, at P'Vmouth. on Wedn«.fday by 6,
A Kl, at Walhinj/ton by 6, P »pd at Newbernon
Thu»rdayby p W- Ret ami,—Lrave Newbem
every Friday l>v ft, A M, ariive at Waihingion by
5, P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, atJSdr-niou on Sunday by 9, A M, ai.datS>uf
foik. on Momlay bv 9 H M
NOR t U-CsiROLIXA.
39. From Edentoo by Hertford, Nixontoo, Eliza
beth city, «nd Jonelburg to Indian-town, once a
\v<*ek.
Leave Edcnton every Wednerday bv 1, P M, and
arnve at (nd4an-town on Thu fdayby 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiantownevery 5, A M,
and aiiive at Edtotou on Wedncfday at u, a M.
40. from Halifax by Northampton cc»urt-hou f e,
Pnncrton, Murfreefboroogh, Wintoti and Windsor
to Edeoton. oi.ee a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edentonon Weonefdav by 3» P M, leave Eden
ton on Wedncfday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Satur ay bv it, A M
41. From Hahfax by Seotland, Hogton, Wilhamf
tonand DailyVto Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 1», AM, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wedncfday by 10, A M. Returning—
Leave Plymouth on Wedncfday at 2, P M, and ar.
rive at Halifax on Friday at to, A M.
42. From Haiifax by Tarfwro* and Greenville to
Walhingtononee a week
Leave Halifax everyr Monday at 10, A M, and ar
rive at Walhington on Wednesday by to A M. Re
turning —Leave Washington every Wednesday at s,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warienton, WiUiamlborough,
Oxlord, Hillfborough, Martiqville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salisbury and StateTvtUe to Charlotte and trom
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
from tkencc by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every. Monday at 9* A M, arrive at
Warren;on by 7, PM, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Salisbury on Sa urday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
; Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
en Tuesday by 10, A M, arrive Wed
nefday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warrerftonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at
Halifax #ri Monday at 6, A M,
44 From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-hoyfe, Leafburg, Cafwell courunoufe and Roc
kingham cotirt-houfe to Germantown once in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, A
and arrive at Germantotvn on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrjye at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From SaTem by Beihania, Huptfville, Roch
fj>rd, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutheifordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C- once in two weeks.
Leave Salem cVe»y <Jtti«r Satufday.at jam, and ar
rjve at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 rm. Leave
Spartanburg - every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at th«next Monday at 6 p tfi.
Fropi to Tar
boroug>b once a week.
Leave Tar borough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifburg-by 6 pm. Returning—Leave Louis-
every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rbugh by 6 r m .
47» Froift Ralirigh by Smithfield, Waynefborough,
and Kingllon to Newberri, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every othsr Tudday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
fyturHfrg~— Leave Newbern.every other Friday by 2
pm, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to HilUborouglv,
and fiom Hillfborough by Chajjel hill and Chitham
| cpurt-ho u fe,to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
Hours at Chatham court-house.
Lpavc every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive ?t Hillfborough by 6 p m, Returning—Leave
HiNfborough every Wedncfday by 8 A m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. Fron} Fayetteville by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from
t«n by S. Washington, Sare&o and Sampson court
hoofe to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington Qn Tlnyfday at 10 a. m. Re
tuming—Leave every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. Frorji Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
conrt-houfe'to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-bouse, A,nfon ccurt-houfe and Rich
mond courl-houte to Fayetteville, once a week *
Leave Ftyetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Saiifbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa-
every Tuesday no»n and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday Dy 6 ? m. j
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmingtqu once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at to a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH NORTH CAROLINA.
sa. From Camden by court-houfe, Char
lotte and XiMicolnion to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave C >mden every o* her Monday at 6 a m, "ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6pm Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by a p m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
court-house, Pinckncyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
trom Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-officc on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive 3t
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 p m, arrive at Laurens
court-house ou Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Otangeburg to Charleflon,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a
rive at Charleston on Thurfdoy at to a m. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at z p m, and ar- j
rive at Columbia on Sunday at rieoo.
SSUTH-CAROLINA iff GEORGIA.
55. From Edtpnhrld court-house by Cambridge,
Abbcvilltcourt-houfe, Pendleton court-house, Hat-
Lonsford, Franklin court-house, E berton and Peters
burg to JVafhington, and from Washington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefteid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p m, at Paterfburg
on Tuesday by 10 a m, and at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb-idg* on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edge
held court-house by 7 f m.
56 From Augufla by Washington, Grecnfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a week.
Leave Augulla every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tncfday by 5 p m, and arrive at
j Georgetown, on Thursday by 7 p m. Returning—
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, audarnve
at Augtlfla bv noon on Monday.
57. Ffom Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at a r m, and arrive
a- Gaadcn* Comer by 8 r m. Returning—Leave Gar
dens every Thursday at 5 a m, and ariive at
Beaufort by to a. m.
Note I. The Pofl jVlafer General may alter the time*
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of the contract, be previoujiy flipvlatina an adequate com
pensation for any extra expenfethat may be occasioned there*
by.
Note 1. JHalf am h'jur Jhall be alloived Jor opening
and cle/iag the f.lailatall officer where no particular time
is spa iftd.
No'c 9. For euciy hour's deity 'f cccUe\M
e (crfttd, in ail r itg aj'er the tipcs prefcriM (I*ny cm
traft, the Cer.traflor JhallJorfeit one dollar, and if the de
It} continue until the departure t[ any dtptnJixg Maty
trherebt the Mailt dr/ited for such deptnjing Mail, bp
a trip, an adittianM forfeiture »f Jive dolors /hull be
incurred•
Note 4 Nexvfpapers at ivrf!as Lct'ers are to /* f- ni
in tie Mails ; and if any per/on rrciking pro[ofals dejires
to carry neiofjapers other than tdsofe conveyed in the nail»
for bis own em.dunent y be muji fate iff hit prbpofals sos
lohat fumhe tfi't ccrry it ivith that emolument and for
•what Jurn ivithv/t thai emolument.
Note 5. Should any• person mi king propofuls deft re an
alteration <rf the times of arrival and. departure above fpe
' cifiedy hemufl lat> »n £U prapojflt the alterations Mtred y
an ithe difference they ivitl rnahe in the terms of his con
tract.
Note 6. Persons mating prop'fals are deft red to fate
their prices in gross by the. ye ?r, and not by the mile.
Tbofe ivbo contract ttfill receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of "January, Aprils "July and 0 ?>!>er, in
drafts on the pofl offices on the route and in bank n A?s%
Note 7 The contrails are to be in operation on the firfl
day of April next, and eontinue for four years, until
the 3 \JI day of March incluftve, in the year 1802.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Post-Matter General.
Gkneral Post Officz, ")
Philadelphia, December 18,1797s j
tuthScsti 4thF
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797.
THE Managers particularly request the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
eußodi, which has hitherto obtained, of giviwg a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
They are a.:vare that gentlemen are unconfjious
of any wrong done to t ie interest of the inlttu
tion by this prailicc, from a general, though mif
tiken idea that Checks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in fact, tfiey were never intended as more
than tokiru by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to ascertain with the least trouble to the parties, th-tt
the-j them/elves have been before in the Theatre, or
paid for their adroiflion.
Independent of the injury the Managers fufiain,
such a practice encourages a croud of idle boys and j
other disorderly persons to surround the doors of |
the Theatre, to the sorruption of their morals and j
the great annoyance of the Audience.
It has also fieen thefource of two evils of no in
csnfiderablc magnitude; one is, that fumetimes
very improper company is by these means admit
ted ; and the that owia a to Checks palling
into dilhoneft hands, they have beun frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amor.iit far the purpofesof
Sale
This ftiTtenient will, it is refpe-Slfutly hoped, in
duce the public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Manages win, i/thus affifled,
easily p»ove adqquw to it? entire abolition.
WIGNELL fcf REINAGLE.
Dgcerabct 13 ' w
Muftcal Instrument ManufaElory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LO>TESS OF HARMONY.
H si R P R R,
T'NFORMS his friends atid t.\e public, that he has
A now r,eady for (ale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent fwell.fooaflahaht and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, Cmplicity and durability of conOrUdion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a tingle tni
al will convince the unprejudiced judg?—As they
are manufaifliired under his immediate infpe&ion,
of the very be< feafohed materials, he can fell 011
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrtimants repaired,
tuneji, &c. p; ir ~ , .i.„
change for new.
ntvember ig. MWlltlC.
Samuel & Miers Fiftier,
ARE NOW OFEHINU*
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frelh
assortment of Woolen and other goods, ftiitaMe to
the feafou, received by the lsrte arrivals from Eng
land.
Tlev ha ve alf'i fur Sale,
I.ifbnn
Sherry f' n lua1 uar t er caiks-
Port Wines, j t
Assorted tjueen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. dlw3taw3w.
City of Washington.
scheme
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City,
A magnificent dwelling-houl'e ao,ooo dollars,
& cath 30,000, ife SO,OOO
t ditto l£,ooo & ciflt ij,oo» 40,00«
t ditto 15,000 6c calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto ic.ooo Sc calh 10,000 so,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 .& cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
» dj. s,ooo«ich,ar«J « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - 10,00 c
jo do. 5»o * - 10,000
00 do. too - • «o,ouo
400 do. jo - • 10,000
400 do. »5 » 10,000
1,000 do. 30 • 10,000
15,000 do. IV " 15#, 000
Prit.es.
33,t6i JVUnki.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prixe ot 40,000 dt>H-»r
the Last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the i.ast
but on* :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpccimcn of
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City ol
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
lelefted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares ; from those drawifigsit ispropofed toerei 1 !
two centre *nd c our corset foona». pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey then*,
when completr, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner defcrihed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nert deduftior. of five per eeflt. will
be made to ifefray thenectffarv eipcnfes of print
ing,* See. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for »he National Univerffty, to
be ereSed within the City of Waihington.
The real fecuriticsgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are vilued at
more tUn htlf the amount of thelettery.
SAMUEL BIQVCF.T.
Tfekets may be had at the B»«3c of Col*m
hia ;cf James Well <;o Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston : of John Hepkirx, 'Richmond'
"and of f.irKar. J M'JU, e'nricr't mw
Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreety
HAVE received a supply of Seafonablc GOODS,
which they arc now •pening for sale, on
reasonable tcrm9. Oil 4vr
This Day Publiflied,
Ami to l>e fold br WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Pwcc $-%tbs of a Dsllar>
Obfcrtations on certain Documents
Contained i» No. V and VI of
'• The History of the United State! for
the year 1796,"
111 which 'he CH-.RCt of speculation agaiull
AimXANbER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Tliasury, is FULLY
REFUTED. >
wrrr rs n sr ulms s1 r.
Til's publication presents a eoncile statement
of the fcafe means prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
pgrfons who arc conlideredae hotiile to their disor
ganizing fchrmes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hanjilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, qc the fuh
je>st ef the documents aforefaid,'and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,"
that the connection between him and Reynold*,
was the result of a daring coafpiracy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
£jT A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholcfaie purchasers, for
casu. Orders to be adereffed to Mr. Yoitnc.
A.'.rrufl 2 t . ... .
Yellow >ever and Peltilential
Difsafes.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. otftavo.
By William Young, Boclfeller,
No. sa, Second street, the corner of CKcfbut ltreet,
(Price, ttt boards \ 1 CentsJ
Neatly printed on fine American wove medijua
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of. Life ;
On the principles established in ths elements
of Medicine, ot the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
\\ ith an attempt to correct fonie important er
rors of that work, ar.d cases in illuflration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br Williim 7~ateq izf Chas. Maclean*
To which is Subjoined, a Treatite on the
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diitafes ot indire<sl debility.
AndadifTertation on the Sources of iL-iideiHicanc!
Peftilentialdiftwfes; in whichisattempiedtnprovr
by a numerous induition of faiSs, th-at they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain dates, or certain vicillitudet, of
the atmofpliere, by CHARLts Maclban, of
r Calcutta.
nov - »'• jut
FOR SALE, b i
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
No. j, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brssdy, ift and 2d
proof, just landed
a SO bales of Bourbon cottpn of afuperior quality
9 do. , Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the fifft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits ,
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do ( qr. calks.
New England rum in hogflieaiis
-Genuine HoliandGin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Bofion beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in da do
Bed Bolton Mackerel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow IVnu 'l..' ... "
A few tons of £kuflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in :afki
Long whalc-bune
&o I, a, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firlt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An in>oice of Dutch hollow glals ware.
November 8. diw.
This day is Publiflied,
At the Qffice ot the Aurora, No. 11a, Market Stfeet,
| Price one dollar a&d a half,]
■ A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in t)»e
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Siatss, conneft
ed with the Mission to the French Republic during
the years, 1794, 5, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenipotentiary to the (aid Republic
Illutirsted by his 1 NSTRUCT!O.\'S and COR
RESPONDENCE and other autheiUK; documents.
A very libetf) allowance to those who bny to fell
agaiD.
December 83. «6t.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. t», Sec»nd-(lre£t, corner of Che'fnut-flreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment ot Englyi, FrcncL, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS, j11y», such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges'throughout tha United States.
I. ATE L V f.U BLISHED,
Bheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols. ' J
Ditto, large 12 mo prica j dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pallehoards,
(hcathißg and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, WSfers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in tke counting lioufe, or
public office.
Catalogues of a raifcellaneous colledtioo of
BOOKS, with the price of each alhxed, to be had
by inquiring as above. O<S. 24. — iiw6w
LAW BOOKS, "
Lfttxll London and Dublin* Editions.
Tf; tff P. kICE, Book/tilers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market ilreet,
HAVE jull received hy the hte arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their importa
tion, consisting as a variety of thj iatfftl and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, formsthe moftextenfive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efqre
beg leave to notice, thiit l-rom the nature of tfceir
connefiknsin Dublin, they are enabled to lelllrilH
editions (as they have hitherto don?) at the very
lowed prices. The following are am«ig the latcit
' publications.
Vefey, ju.i'rs Reports in Chancery, 3 **.;».
Peake's Cales ut Nift l'rius ; Riclgeway's Reports
in the time ofl.ord Hsrdwicki; Floyer's Procters
Prafiice in the Eetlefwliical Courts; Burtcn's
Tr<atife on a Suir in Equity; Tidd's Pra<Sice of
the Court of Kill's Bench'in l'erl'onal AiSions,»
parts co-nplete ; Wonl's I,aw of Nations ; Cruilit
on Uses ; modern Reports, 12 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rici crpeiS ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th Vol. complete of
Durnford aat! Ball's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
Wanted,' to Hire,
A I.nrge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
l\. the centre df the city—for which a generous
rent witi be given; to be taken lor a year, or op
more for a longer term. Inquire of th* Tjinter
OS. 17- cctf •