fcttfc of t»jc A!,!> Philadelphia
By John Wars Fenno, N" ii 9 Chefnut Street.
bolus** 1948.] PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENNG, DECEMBER 14. '798. " ~ []'6lvme "XIV.
CCj" The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers re/iding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclojing and directing;
and unless fomeperfon in this city will
become answerable for the fttbfcrip-
Hon, it mud be paid Six Months in
advance.
For Sale,
ST O N PACKET,
Hulings Cowpmithwait, Maft'er,
BURTHEN ab»ut barrels, 1 go#d strong
Ship has excelUnt accommodations for paffenirers,
may be Cent tQ sea with small expence. She is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf. For further'particular en
quire of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith k. Ridgway.
y Said (hip, if not lold or, er l:eforc the sth
of I> e.ruber, inlt. will on that day in the evening,
be offered for sale by public at the mer
chant's coffee hsufe.
Stn'tlh & Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
dec. 3. .
FOR SALE, ■
TBS SHIP
PERSEVERANCE,
James Ifll/iamfon, mtijlcr.
Juftari-ived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, "f live Oak and Cedar, copper fheath
cd in London, burthen 320 tons mounting 16 ,
gum and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF
ijl Hoglhead* and jo barrels Suear
160,000 Weight of prime Coffee in 'nhds. bbls
and bags C-j
31 Pwncheons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO,
R• Williamson, Majter.
FROM St. Doruingo, with her cargo, confuting of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
Aud 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
the brig
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOTIVING 11 Guns, burthen
Js2i£§S2 two two huudred barrels of
Vlour, a*d in j>k*at order—Apply to
Thomas John Ketlartd.
povemher 1 x $
For Sale.
THE Sußsemot*. inteflding to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
•whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &i.
The (hop is elegant, commodious., a«J fuflici
«ntly known for the.'eitenfiye business 1 one. in the
whelefale and ritiiflfhe ; the fitiiatmn «qual to
any in the city, being at the cjincr of Walnut and
Seeoind ftrCefs. i"he \\Fio!e, or any part of the
Stock, win be fold, as will be.* suit the purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, ju,v.
JVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the ri'tr trade—
ThePEGGY, about 3<?tonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order. f
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails'
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
gjr* All persons indebted to the late firm £.l
GolMtteuit f Baldwin, IV. JJ. Gotdlhivail, Gotu
tbimait & Muon, or the fulifcri'er, are earneflly
ta make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, j»M.
3 §
BOSTON BEEF,
JOO Barrels in Shipping Order.
»o« mt bv ••••••'*
JOHN SKTRM,
Ao. 96, Aortb Froni-Jtreet.
Who wants to Charter,
&§sk A GOOD STOUT VESSEL,
Of about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
"°v __J in 4 t
FOR WILMINGTON,
No ath - Carolina,
C 0 MME R G E,
X Captain Wood,
x^*JiY v on very mo
-delate terms, and fail about the
4{thinft*nt. Apply tq the Captain on board at
l.atimer's wharf, or
Willings & Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 §
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sailing atid ivell
fiiSgal accommodated Ship
"JSgaH SWIFT-PACKET,
Patrick Grtbbsn, majler.
A conl'.ant trader, will fail in a few days.—
I'or freight or piffage apply to the mafWr on
board, or N. & j. FRAZIEK,
No. jf, South Fiont-ftreet.
dec 4 dlw
OFFICE
HEMOVED to 157 South Seccrid street.
4 :w
is . FOR SALE,
' " < —3.-1 The fafl failing Schooner
\\ Jgjgj THREE SISTERS,
• is now ready to take a cargo on
y boaru, iuppofed will carry 600 or 650 barrels.
ALSO, A SMALL INVOICE
JAVA COFFEE,
' SubjeS to drawback,
Enquire of
_ JEIiU HOLLfNGSWORTH b* Co.
No. 47, Penn Street
december 11 dtf
For New York & Bojlon.
r JfciLkij The new aud faft failing Sloop
g PRESIDENT-PACKET,
'• Jambs Bkacxstt, majler.
WTLL fa.l with allconvenientfpeed—For freight
or paflage apply to the mailer on board, lying at,
Chefnut-ftreet Wharf.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
On board said Sloop,
10 do. of herring ard lhad
■' Few half do. mackrael
A small quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of winttr pears
scoo bunches of onions
4000 lbs. of ixcellent cheefc,
Ship Broker's Office, 51
And Commifion Store, P
6 No. 119, South sjokt Stsfft,
> Next ;!oor to she Csfloiia House.
'"I ''HE Subferihfi-, encouraged ny the advice of r
-1- his friends, . ffcrs iii> lervice to the public
as a fhifl an ; liifurancc He propof
es to buy and fell vefleis and every .tiling relatf
« ifig fb'ereto—aflift mafrerj of v'eflels and others
in enteyng and clearing at the Cultom-Huu/e,
procuriag and fiwi.»ht, fettling Im'ur
aptp and all uther mercantile and
have 00 hand tho necessary Blanks and Stamp's.
Papers in foreign hoguag.es;rti:flated, and in
formation given iu general mercanti e :■ Jtters
From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be use
s ful to those who please to favor hmr with their'
commands. SAMUEL £M£RT.
November 19 ■ $ I ■
— in Ii U ■
For SALE or CHAR rER,
V«r- THE SHIP
t molly,
/• Burthe - n . irajwo IIOWTTI
fitted, and may be ready
,0 receive a cargo in a few daye—(he is pierced,
s8 runp, and mounts 14 new fix pounders, with
.r~,«il arms in proportion.
j—<- IUE SHIP
DIANA,
Burthen 1,100 barrels of FJouf,
rhiladelphia built of live oak
c« t dar, it pierced - B
teen guns, ind mounts ten new four PP".U^ rs »:
with l'mall arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
' A M A Z.0.N,.
WBSMT Burtlien 1.300 barrels ef Fleur,
jvj ew .j7 n g; an d built,, has lately C
been completejy fitted, and tnay be ready for sea
in a few davs.
tor termMpply to
NICKLL\ teVjUFSSIH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundry vejfels at Marcus-Hooh,
11,000 bushels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bushels of coals
386 crates of queens ware assorted
7 tierces of bottletLporter
10 barrels of coleothard pakit
4 do. of purple bro-wn do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks \
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black ' do.
15 barrels Spanish brown do. o
35 boxes of pipes
3,5001b5. prime cochineal
3 barrelalS'ew CJrleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
ao hales of fail (wmvafs
379 sheets of copper, assarted from 48 by 14
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tuba raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guas4j feet, Bjcwt each
;14 do. 4 feet, icm and 4lbi eacii
jo barrels of j;un powder
6 cases Manrhefter cotton checks
3 trunks nvillins and shawls
14 t ales miiflirret3, dimities and g'mghams
»8 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets,&c.
It trunks printed calicoes |-p,
6 baits of whits and coloured cafiimeres
1 hale of course woollens
English nails afTortcd.
oaol»eri 7 . fri.&fat. tf.
s ■ 1 . 18
AUGUSTUS FRICKfi, \
i Woollen Draper & Men's Mercer J
No. 7, south T!?irdArret,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the lad arrival lrwii Europe, a large affort
rncnt of thciafhionable Goods in his line,
- And has conjlantly for f 9 U a general ajfort. 1
ment of A
First rate London luperfine Broad
Clotlis
Caffimeres
Veil Patterns of all kinds
And every other article in the gentlemau's line
by wholesale aiid retail.
(lecfmber 10 p
1 K. i au.or;
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
»<•. gfc, NOR T H St XTH-ITK E ST, 3
- O ESI-EC'f FULLY informs the Public that
IV he continues to teach ladies ih« Piano
Forte as usual.
Kov - tuthsa
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City
AND IS REMOVING FROM NO. 8, RSNUT,
To tbe I't vc Story BtiUJi/ig, u Dock'
near fbirj./lrcrt.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
COKSISTIKG Of
Caflaes ,
liaf't as
Mamoodies
Ilumhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
The remains of a Stork of
DRT GOODS, \
Con/fling if Wool ens n/y,
amcn'gst them «re, 1
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets.
Kendal Cottons
'Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Olj Ri*m,
Of a fine flavor, 3d .th proof.
' nov 10 $
REMOVAL.
Geohge Dobson,
JNFORMS his friends and thePUhic in general
that he hat removed from No. ijTSoutli i'hird
.street, te No 91, South fideof Markt-ftfeet, near
cKe corner o! Third Street, and is low opening
a very s(Tortour, tv s
DRY GOODS,
sun jbie Fok the present sf..:son,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEDED,
Per the Ihips William Penn, Amiablq and Jane, v.
from LontlOjii, uud per Ohefapeak »d Thomas j,
fr6hl Liverpool, and will b<- ijolu ]>w for cafli,
or approve*! notes at a short date, vz,
London 7-4 Superfine Clo:hs and
Cafliincres, fafhionable ccflours
Yorkshire 7 4 do. a»d do. -
Mixed aad plain coatings .
Welch flannels 1
Kerfty teay»r, for Spencers
Jeannets and Cabby cords
Velvets and vej«crteens
Yelvereta and thickfetts J
7. 8,.4 A and 11 8 cotton and lir.n checks
7-8 and 4 4 bed tics c
6-4an<i,7-4 bpd bunts
London, c-iintz and chn>tz furnitures p
j Furuitura cottons v
Do. dimities ~
' ! Purple and chintz fliawls n
Silk do. j
Camels hair do.
» j Silk, cotton, and worsted hole A
India and Britilh muslins of every defeription
Black and white orape
and paper fans
Umbrellas ™ r - —' ... . - , r~
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French camUtick 7
Cafiibrick muslins
Do threads
Pulifat and Madras Handkerchiefs, 1!
And an elegant ajfortment of - -
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting, a
novembcr 17 §
For sale by the fubfcrlbers,
A FEW BALES OF
WOOLEN S,
Containing Cloths & Blankets, ]
150 bales Bengal muffins si
»o do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat- J
terns
SOi pieces Russia Iheeting *
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 tens Peterfbarg clean hemp
IS pipes, 3 years old, fin«ft particular Ma
deira wine *
a quantity of ihemhin? copper _
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. 26 d2\v
" 1 ' 1 1 _. . . .
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS, 1
Superfine, fine and common cloths »
Swandowns
Baizes J
Velvet ts
Velvcrttts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities ,
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
BrulTels and Persia carpetts
Buttons .
For sale, for cash or credit, ly
SAMUEL MfcRRICK.. ,
no. i 43 Arch ftrcet. 1
nov. J6 §tjani 1
1 —— —— r
LANDING, 1
'From on board the Brig Amiable Mafilda, 1
Richard Stites, Matter, from Gape c
Nichala Mole.
13 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers "I p? SP !
j8- Do. Gaiters I 5" ft 1 o
a Do. Rugs 1
X Do. Harrfe Sacks f w X "
a Do. Flannel Trowfcrs i 3 ST 2
t Do. Tents, J •<; c
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chesapeake, Captain Webb, fr«m
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware, j
Assorted particularly to luit the Weft-India t
Market—For Sale by 1
Thomas is* John Ketland,
november 7 § |
Now Landing, i
From on board the ship Johri Bulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of JeiTe & Robert
; Wain,
35°,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the firll quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar, >i
in cannifiers.
, nOT - *) dtf
»
Bond 8c Brooks,
Corner of Market and Sixth streets,
HAVE RJiCRIVEp f
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool atid Hull,
A LARGE AND GENERAL AMORNTENT Of
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now openirg for l'alc, at the most
reduced prises, lor ca(h or the ulual credit,
nov 17 ' 5
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambrtr* caflis, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov- 3°. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM~
A Cargo now landing at South flrect wharf,
FOR SALE BY
PATER IiLTGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
BRANDY-, ill and 4th proas-
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. scc.
Nov. I. dtf |
■Jitft impirtcd inJhips William 1\ tin, A- '
jt-5 .J miable and Juan,from Londotl<,
A quantity of Cannon,lizes 4,6 & 9 lb.-> w>th balls i
Ca ronades, la lh». { suitable.
a! Mufqtiets, anJ~j ra
rd PiftoU, for (hips us», | "2
as Rifled barreledGuas, Fowling Pieces, 1 § n
ig and Horfi-nttf j Hftols, - j .^"*2
40c ,000 Flints;'Ct itlly !'or mufk'fetsj in j ' g
kejs. J to
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, wiih Iron Scab
*' bards, in cases of 50 «ach,
l ight Cavalry Swords in Cases
>abrcs, Sworii with plated mounting
!" Irui.mongcry ai,d Cutlery in caflcs, a general at
' fortmeni—For Sale by
j Thomas b* Jno, Ketland,
Philad. 0(5lolier 25.
just Arrived, .
In the Brig Eliza, from tht Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street whari',
Fourth prpof Brandy in Pipes.
iirimfti ne.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING Or
. Opitm, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
Eflences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweat oil in bottles and flalks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
Satins
n Crapes
Umbrellas
~ '•us.i'Gs'ig
Claret in cases
Old Madsira Wine of the firft qurlity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
Genteel Boarding cs 5 Lodging,
IN A HEALTHY 31 Tit ATl<f N .
MRS. M'CRKA informs hsr friends and the
Pub ic, that (he is prepared to acconimq
date fdveral Gentlemrsj, wi h geoieel Bt/arding
J. and Lodging, at No. i 7, Filbert ftri«t.
n0v..28 cti.
Evening School.
,S. L E WIS,
INFORMS the Public that his EVENING
SCHrtOt for Young Gentlern en will open j
for the Winter, 011 Monday, December 10, at
t- No. 2c T Arch-flrcct, near SixthiStreet.
dec d3t
WA iV T £ -
Convenient Lodgings, For ;m elderly
j. Lady, in a ref'pedlabie private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office.
dec 4 d:m
NOTICE.
ALL persons indrbtid to the effatn of Jamss
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
flreet dacfrafed. are defirtd to m«kc payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have any demands
again (I th* said efla*, are requested to fend in their
S accounts duly att-efled for fettlemcnt, to
MARGARET l HOMfSON,-* Adroiniflratrix.
JOHN THOMPSON, j Admini irator.
bov.j»3 d I ni
James Sff William Miller,
No. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch-street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for cafli, or the
ufuat credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry afid Green
~ r'-itto, White, Red,' and Yellow Irilh flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guazrties, and other
muslins, fancy audplain Cotton ho«, velvets,thick
sett» and fancy cords, sewing silk and twill of all
colours, ferreting, hs.ir ribbon, coloured threads,
a, India flag bandanoes, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiels, a variety of other cotton
Uo. Soute ronials, red Gilla' handkerchiefs, mo
leens, foan fpianuif. fullians, beav,rs, jeans; fa
= tmetts and royal ribbs, also muflincts and dimities,
3- ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
» °" T ' al _ d'ot
John Dobbin,
7 BOOT SHOEMAKER.
m T) ESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
IV the Public in general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South Second-Jlreel, nearly op
polite thtf Merchants Cofiee house wh»rc gen
iia tlemeil maybe ftipplied in the neatefl and liefl
manner—he allures ihofe who may pi cafe to fa
vor him with their commands that no awen.'ion
t>r exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Ordeic received wili lie punilually at
tended to.
r.ovember 5
rt NOTICE 7
ALL persons who have any deimn Is against
the ellate of tho late Wiuliam CtirTox,
5 j deceafed,and who hiV« not-ilrcaiK- produeed their
j their accounts, arc requeftwd to fen ' them to the
• fubicriber at no 171, north Second street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, bov. 19,1798 m&ih4'.v
NOTICE.
COPARTNERSHIP 01
HUDSON & YORK*,
is this day diiTolved by mutual content. All par*
funs iodclucdu r«ud £mi arc reciueited to mak<t
immediate who de
mands arc requeued to prefcue them for frttlesnefct
to WII.LfAM HUDSON, who is duly authorifwd
to adjilft the fame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YORKE.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
no. 54, North t'RONT-srmtr,
Has for fule on the uju:J terms, a vejjy
extenilve alignment of
DRY GOODS.
Dec. 10. 3/Jfv ]
FOR SALE.
By the Subscribers,
ON V£R Y LOW TKRMj
WAX CANDLES,
"F A SUPERIOR QIIALITV, .
Either by the (ingle box of or by the quan
tity. ''
Wtilings £s* Frunc'u.
Nov. 24
I »o<r I c Br
IA LL I>erl " or ' s indebted to th# Estate of.ioc
;-L a. ior Hugh Hod,g», iltce'aiea, arjp requ<-#ed
K> make uniueduts payment—and thole having
demands agamlt the Ellatc are'delired to authen
ticate and (ntlVrit them to.
MARI.I HODGE, adm\nijlrat)rix.
SAMUEL HpDGQEN, adminijirator.
nov ic - ' £
Notice is hereby Gjjydn,
THA I application will b- mads a J the Trea.
fury'-of tle Ur.ited Staies, foj- the renewal of
the foJowir.jscer-ificat,-s e/"Pu«ded Debt, (land
ing in the name of Robert of Cheilea,
1 union, the laid Cxuifiratis having been for wax ti
ed by the (bij> EJliee, Harvey, from London for
Ne w-Y ork,. captured, by< thfe Erenc h, arid fuppolad
to Jje lo.i.
No-11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, dated New-
Yoik, 18th A V rll, 1796, l.r Dollars. 1481,-17.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cei;.. dated New-Yoik,
iß;h -dprii. 1796, for dotlars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
Hovemher »8 c if )W
Notice is hereby Given,
That application wrll be made at the
Bank of the United States for tfic renewal ol
the following certificates of Bank fto.k, flandiug
in the name of Hodgfon Atkiriion of London,
which w re loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt Kidd, captured by the French', and all
concerned are desired to take rotice
No. 2474, ifTued in lieu of \ ~ 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640,' for 4 /hares.
No. 3020 ifluea ir rs |,m"i« *"
- " A.—..
Nov. ag il3m
J AlYlLb & RICHARD SIJ.II i H,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 14, South Front street,
whpre they hevc for fa !e, as ufuat, a large and ge
neral affoitcient of European and Eaft-ir.dia
D.RT GOODS,
mo(l ol whtlli have now arrived and are landing,
from the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and-Hull-
Their Cufloiflers by applying will find almost
every article, generally imported,-and at as Jaw
prices Fcr calh or credit,as they cau ba had else
where.
N. B. A Tew Cases of Nurtnltcrgh TOYS, a
confignmetit, to be fold by the c,if« only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1795. dtf
IV] ii.lt.nery Room,
Nc. 13$, Marlet Street.
THREE tfr fotlr young worrrsti who are weH ac
quainted with the Milleriery and
can bring good recommendations lu.lv be employ
ed.'. y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. 26 " : §
Englilh wrought. Nails.
Imported in the Jhipi Molly and Ditina, from
LIVERPOOL. ■>'
400 Casks os -Nails, *
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, 13d, and
2od, flat points Xuiuble for the fouthem
matiet— 6d, Bd, ipkl, ltd, and iod, finedrawn
(harps —also 1, 3, 4, and 6 clouts—fprigs—
tucks —feupper nails—fheathiug nails, l>c.
FOR SAX. £ BY,
Rcbert Denifoti, junr.
. 1:7 Market street.
For Sale,at the Stores ol'the Sub
scribers, 011 Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails allotted
40 bales ef fail canvass, from No. f to 8
53 talks yelhiw ochre
1 j tierces bottled potter, 6 to 14 flez. eacfc
TenerifFe do. in hogfheadsand ptp
OU Port do. in hhds.
Empty Cl»ret bottles
6 cafrs of Ginghams, See.
afiorted for the marktt
4, 10, andQ inch
Writing fiates, ii.lt stands aad presses
19 purcheons Jamaica rum 1
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles fbcatl inp paper
Nuklin (5* Griffith.
apr'l 7 tuth&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to>he lalt witi .hi tc-(l anier:t of
Mkhah C'*iTS,deceafed,a Viloable
Plantation & Tra£t of Land,
containing one hunifrej afd ftVenty three acres,
the Teflatoi's late -rcfuknca, iitua-td in North
Sufquehanna Hundred, C ocil counry, Maryland, ,
»Uoi!t three mile- from the. tidc-wntr
halmi,and at a convenient dittansc from fevcral
placet of worfliip of Friends ar d I'reibytereans.
On the premil'«t-*re a Tan-yard and convenicn
tc> belonging thereto, in good repair; m dwelling
hoafa, liable, orchard and oth. r imj rovementi l ,
with Itor Is aeres rfgood wattieJ mead w, and
a fuflicient propertion ofviluahlc timber.
For terms apply to the fut fori! er, in W«ft-No>
tingham, a •out 3 miles from the ) temifes.
THOMAS WARING, Executor
Utb mo. nth, 1798 §
«' Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
*THAT well known Estate, called
SHRF.W9BUKR FARM. formerly the rtriirience
of General J*hA Cadwaladarj fituata m Saflafrat
River, in Kent eeiiniy, Maryland—containing a
tout 1900 acres of prime LAND upwards of sco
of which are ill woojjs. The Buildings art all ei
ctl'.ent, and confiil of a handsome Dwelling House,
two la gc Barn* with Cow houfei. Stables for fifty
horses, a floor under coYer, a gra
nary, two )verfe:T*s houle*, two ranges oftwoftfi
ry buildings for Negroes (one of them new and of
brick )»Corn houses a Smoak house, 4tc. See —The
whole Eilate being nearly surrounded by v. ;iter, it
requires but Utile fencing, and has a goo-i bhad and
Herring filb'ry. It u conveniently lituated for
both the Phi adelphia and Baltimore markets.with
two landing'on 2 navigable river but a ftort fail
from Baltimore There is a brge Peach, and two
large Apple Orchards on the premises; also, a varie
ty of ex client fruits oft', ifferent kinds. The foil i»
BKftly a rich Ib'on..—The whole will he fold toge
ther r Icd intofmallcr fafms(forwhichthe buil
dings are conv.-nicntly fituared) as may suit tbe puri
ehaftr The .'fockonfuidFirtn,confiding of Hor
ses: Sheep, lie. will also be diipofed of.—
Fo furrier paricularsipply to Großot Fa stings
on to» premifv ortothefc fcriberyinPailalelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, Jpn.
Dcccoiber t». m. tf.
~TO M LET,
A NE AT, convenient twojlpry trnneHOl?£E
and B \Kli H®US>'.,Ctiiated in fouih Fourth
flreet.t'ftftKV
pleteVrc'er; having two roams on a with a
fpa.ior". giTret; the l6t is 19 I-X !«ct front en
Fourth #<re£t, arid ID I t feet deep.
Apply. to
CHRISTIAN BETZ,
Ho 1 *5. Mulberry-street
#'S —As the property belong; to orphan chil
dren, it is cxpe3cd that good fecuriiy will bo given
for the rent.
Philadelphia, decmber it, T798
iVU i ICE.
SAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle
men Sulifcribers, that the £ X C H A N G E
is opened for their recep.ion; and the C/ TX
T A V £ R N, for Gentlemen and Tr.iveHer,
Lafl Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers to -the fide building, which makes it
perfe<slly convenient.
November 6 taw
To the Creditors
Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Northumberland
County, in the State of Pcnnfylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
•"P'HaT I have applied to the Judges ofthe Court
JL of Cosr.rnon Pleas, in and for the Cofciity of
Northumberland,for the benefit of the several laws
«f • cnnfvlvania, passed sot the relief of Insolvent
fiebtors; and t! e Judges of the fsid Court have ap
pointed the Thirtieth day of November inft: it be
ing thu Friday of the court of Common Pleas for
tiie County of Northumberland, to heai me and
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunbury, at
which time and place my Creditors may attend if
they think proper.
Wm. MC. CALLEY.
Northumberland, November I, 1798.
novi-Viicr 7 wjw
N O T 1 C E,
ALf. Perfpjts haying claims upon the Estate
of James Thorburn, Stonecutter, deceaf-
ttli m;: desired to nrefent tbjm so.- payment—
lances m their rcfpeiilive bal
' aljTpersons,
HAVING claims Jtainft the Estate of
XUSANbAH LOCJCrER, deceased, are
d t present their refpe<ftive account! to
Nd THAN A. SMITH, 1 Jg .
JOHNDQRSET, J Exect "° rt -
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied bv Sufannab Lackirr, together
-with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be disposed of Time will be given foi
the latter on un-exceptionable feeurity.
nov '9 ;,aw6w
- I"he Creditors
Of William Sleedman and John Smith, of
the County of Northumberland, in the
State of Pennsylvania, lately trading un
der the Firm of
Stefdman Is? Smith,
WILL I'AKE NOTICE, that the Subfcribm
have made application to the Judges of the
Coun of Common Plea* for the County of Nor
thumberland aforefaid, for he benefit ofthe several
laws of the State of Pcnnfylvania' pafled for the
relief of infolvant Debtors, and that the said Court
hath appointed the Thirtieth d*y of November
next, being the Friday of the Court of Common
Pleas, to hear us and our Creditors at Snnbury, in
the County of Northumberland, at which time and
place you may attend if you think proper.
WILLIAM STEEDMAN. ■
; JOHN SMITH. '
Northumberland, November 1, 1798. '
november 7 Jawjw 1
To the Creditors of Nathan
Cobb, of the city of Philadelphia, Black
smith.
Gentlemen,
TAKE notice, that 11 ave applied to the Court
of Common Pleas,for the city and county of
Philadelphia, lor the ben«fit of the several laws
made for the relief of the infoiveßt debtors, and
that the court have appointed the 17th of Decem
ber, inflant, to hear mc and my creditors at the '
said court,in the fait! city, at which time and place '
you are defircd to attend.
NATHAN CSBB. 1
dec. * fr jt
Philadelphia, November 26, 1798.
ALL persons dtfirousof furniflting by contrail
rations of provjiions, ftrjw and fuel, for all
the troops, which now ar», or nereafter may be
at any or evrry station, poll, encampment, re
cruiting rerdejvoaa or clfewhere in th« state of
Vennfylvanii, frr and during the year 1799, ex- '
cept at Ptefqu' Hie, La Bocuff, Fort Franklin and
l'iitfburg—will be plcafed to fend in their propo- f
sals under staled covers, on or before the 10th of r
uext month. December, to c
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
THE RATION TO CONSIST ®T
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of ispound of pork
18 su'cesof bread or flour
j gill tf rum, brandy or whilkey.
I quarts of fait ") I
J l-llb. Candles ' * J
A* Csngrrfs may at their next feilion make al
lerations in the quantity of loiue of the compo
reiit parts of this ratiar—it is reqqefted of thiofc
who offer propolals to name the price of each
pirt, which will fetveto govern in cafe of dirai
cu.ion uraaercaf;.
i.ov. 16 eu,vr&tt> t;oD
1
Intercepted Letters from France
to Dr. Priestley.
yU>7 PUBLISHED,
*;:n to df. sold bt
[ JAMES HUMPHREYS,
No 59, S' Uth Thikd-Stekkt,
Opfofite the Bank of tbe United SiateJ.
[Priee, Three Five penny bus]
7 of Original Letters, recently writt n
VJ by PerfoTS in Pari*, to Dr. Prieftlcy in
' Amtfici.—Taken on board a Neutral Veflel, an .
1 exhibited as evidence againfl her, in the High
C'>urt of Admiralty of Great Britain.
j An Apprentice Wanted, by said
Humphrey*.
t lie: 11 wfa&tujt
George Davis's
J LAW-BOOK STORE,
5 ho. 319 HICH Street, _
Latest London & Irish Editions.
» EORGE DAVIS'i Fall importation 11 now
• VJT arranged of which a more capital collec
* tion he believes was never offered for sale either
* in this" City, London or Dublin It combines
almost every book in,with several valuable books
out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the
3 sale of Law-Bosks only, it will appear obvious
to profeflianal Gentlemen, the advantages they
have both in fele&ion and price by purchaiing
- from him.
Ilis Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
[ particularly oblige him by calling for them—
-1 and to tbofe residing at a dillance, by fovoring
• him with their actdrefs (poll-paid) they shall be
1 lent.
1 »ov 16 m&thim
Charles Campbell,
W ATCH-M A K ER.
HAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied
by Mr. "John tl'aod, No. 55, corner of
From and Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank
fully receive and execute orders with neatness
and dispatch
HE HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
A Neat and Large Assortment of
Clocks Sis Watches.
WANTED,
A JOURNEYMAN :
ALSO, one or two Apprentices of refpeila
ble parents.
FOR SALE,
A large Quantity of Watch Glafles
Whole/ale and Retail.
nov 24 3>wtf 1
LOST,
IN one of the rtreets between Union and Saf
fafras, on the sth instant, the outside Case
of an EMglilh Gold Watch, chafed on the back
with a lhield Any person who may find the
fame, and will bring it to this office, will receive
Four Dollars reward, and the thaok3 of the
owner.
dec. 7- ;
All Persons
Indebted to the Estate of HENRY HILL, deceased
are requeued to nuke payment to the fubferiber ;
and those having any demands on the fame to pto
duce their accounts for settlement.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no. t)9, Market street
Philadelphia, dec. 4. 1798 eotf
' '/ "* cr£T/»r o rr'r r a '
broker,
Emhratei this opportunity to prrjent his thanks
to his fellow-citizens for their pafl favors
and acquaints them that he it returnedfrom
Chefnut-Hill, to his former refdenee, the
House AO. 11 CUelnnt between Front
and Second-street,
WHERE he holds himfelf ready to execute
their commands in every branch of his
proteflion, fruiting that from a residence in this
city of years he has it in his power to render
them * Hernial fervicc, alSiring them that kis
commilfion shall be as low, asany in Town.
- Lotts, Lands, Houses, Yeflels, Certificates
of every description and Bills of Exchange,
bought and fold, the docketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the (horteft no
tice, by the public's humble fervsnt,
_ John Shields.
Cr Good negotiable Notes discounted
»t a low premium.
November 7 3 awtf
Bank of tbe United States.
November 14, 1798.
NOT ICR IS HERE BY GIVEN,
THAT application will be made at the Trea
sury of the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No. 15,548, for i?,7&i dollars, 33 cents, dated
Register's Office, January Bth, 1798, iflued in
the names of miliam Willink, fan Willink,
Nicholas & Jacob Fan Stapharfi & Hubbard,
Trustees for sundry mo»ey-lenders in Amster
dam; which was forwarded the nth of Janua
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Obbes. efq.
and loft by the capture of the fcip Columbus,
captain Skinner.from New-York forAmfterdam
C. Simp/on, cajh'r.
nav x * , iaw6w
Hats Hosiery,
WILLIAM M<DOUGALL, 1
AT HIS STORE,
No. 134, Market Street,
Has JUBT OPENED, in addition to his for
mer (lock, a very eitenfive assortment of
Men s, Women's, and Children's Hats, and all
kinds of Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the present fcafon i
»" v ' *3 eoim '
A capital Rand for BuCtnefs. J
TO BE RENTED,
AMD rOSSESSION GIVEN, t
On the itb aay of February.
r T'HE commodious Four Story Brick House on 1
A the South fide of Market, near Water- 1
street, at present occupied as a Tavern, by Tho- {
mas Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the office a
of this Gazette.
dcc S Mwt f
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality, £
Now landing from on board the (hip INDIA a
at Mr. Thos. Penrof-'t Wharf, and for sale by
John Ashmead,
No- South Front-Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on rea/onable terms,
C oflacs +
Sift**
Black Tafiaties, ice.
dtc 10 eodtf
r. Sur.uel & Micrs Fifner,
N'n. fj Dock-Strut.
Iltuve rtcuvtdper the M'> v ninG bTARj f/om
Teneriji,
Good Cargo Wine,
In Pips, Hogflieads ami Qinrtfr Calks.
Per the Pjlias, from Hamburgh,
Germar Oznabrigs 2tTicklenburgs.
And b tbe late arrivals fom London,
n Liven<x>l, Rriftol, Hull and l^iblin,
n kISERAL A-SdRTSIENT OF
W3GLEN GOODS,
h mNCir*lLr ON CONJIGHMtNT.
Whichthey are desirous «f Telling by the
Package,in which are separately made up
the followng articles on low terms:
Rot Blankets, 6 4, to 10-4
* » & .point blankets
Mottleciiid green Hugs 6-4 to 3-4
Mixtarl drab Forreft cloths, sorted
Fearnoijhts
Blue Puns
Blue, rixt and drab plains, sorted prices
" Mixt, trill'd. striped and blue coatings, do
Blue, nxt and brown kersey dufials, forte .
r coirs and prices
s Mill'd dab Broadcloths, sorted prices
:s Blue Bradcloths, do
e Low pried Hroadclotks, colors neatly lertei
» Swanfdovn, ftiiped and printed Kerfymeres
/ Mixed anl sorted colored Kerseymeres
K Neat fupe and luperfine e'.oths, Elaitics and
Beveetts
II White, yllow and red Flannels, sorted prices
Green anl white Baize
S Yarn Hoe and Caps
e Coarse an< tne Hats, in cases of 6 dozen each
ao pieces lijerfinc wide Black Uuflcls
Joans Spinrng Ind Camblets
With an Inviice of common and fine drawn
NAILS, flat and lharp points, well aflorted
Tbey have also for Sale,
J Britilh Oz»akrigs")
f Ravens Dick >IN BALES.
' Rufiia Shctinga J
' Saxwn and lobemia Dowlas —in Cliefts
Brown quaiuple Siiefias and w&lte Platillas, do
Irilh Linens in Boxes
Irilh Dow la,, white and brown
Irish Sheethgs, do
Iritti Sackiig
Shot, assort d. Red and White Lead and Span-,
ifl) Jrown
T CrawleyMillington Steel
Queens \vae, in Crates
Glass ware in Crates and hogsheads
Newcallle Jrindftones. Boxes tin plates
A few pipo London market Teneriffe Wise
i India Roimll Hdkfs.}
Long Clotis > IN BALES.
Humhums 3
" Woroans fioes, in barrels
Spermacet Candles, in boxes.
" 11 mo 17 > 3aw6w
Just Imported,
: Iron eanntn, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
; with thrfr carriages complete—3, 4> 6 and 9
• pounderi.
Carronadei, Woolwish proof, with carriages, &c.
complect— 11,18 aad 14 pounders.
Cannon powder in kegs of 15 lbs. each
Round, doible headed, and canniftsr (hot
I Patent (heuhing copper, bright, affortcd 18, »o,
• 14, (6 and 18 or per square foot, fteets 48
by 14 inches, suitable for vaffels from 100 to
iooq tore
Copper nails, bolts and spikes
t Boarding Pikes,
Conunon entUfl 1 * 1 ! —~ ' j
of »nxes
Patent (hot in caflcs of sc#t. each
London porter Mid 11 rown ftaut, in calks »f 7 doz.
' bottled.
Earthen ware it crates, afTorted
for Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near jth street.
Prober 19 ■ e»tf.
JuJl Imported\
A quantity of falt-petre, refined
Guo powder F and double sealed battle
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burton Beer
Mullard squares, 4 ounces
Bed Durham milliard
Ginghams, fubjed to drawback
All of whick will be fold on moderate terms by
HENRT DA riES, junr.
No. |3, south Second street, opposite the
city tavern.
BOT - 9 mw&f.ft
Canal Lottery, No. il.
W*U re-eommrnce drawing in the ceurft of
the prtfent month.
to be had Eight Dollars each,at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'i Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are kept for registering Lnd
examination of Tickets in the above, City of
Washington and Patterfoa Lotteiies, tat.
Stati or thi Wkiu,
One prize of 10,000 dollars I|o,qod
4.O0« 10,000
i, w0 4,000 4,000
i, w0 »,oco 1,000
J en . J,cos
Twenty, teven ao o 5,400
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is
more than two thirds drawn and above 15,000
dollars richer than at the commencement.
£5" Note, the business ef a Broker duly at
tended to in all its tranches. tu.fr.
Nov. 9>
Bank of the United States
November 19, 1778.
NOT I CE,
T"f STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the
Unit ed States are informed, that according to
the Statute of Incorporation, a GeneralEleaion for
twenty-five Direaors will be held at the Bank of
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, ou
Monday, the 7th of January next, a t 10 o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh feAionof the bve
-c 3t ° ckt ! o ' dc " of the laid Bank are also
notified to assemble in general meeting, at the
fame place on Taefday, the Bth of January next,
at 6 o clock in the evening.
G. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article.
N«t more than three fourths of the»ire«OK in
f® ,. 1 elclufi *e of the President, thai) be eligible !
& p Xt r? ' ? year ' but the Direaor who
ft be President at the time of an ele&ion, may '
always be re-defted.
"ovember 16 mtE ,
Pointing WORK,
Of Every Kind.
EXECUTED A T THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
At the Office of the Gazstte of the
Unitjd Statss,
° a - As .
Xt)t Csa3ette.
PHILADELPHIA ,
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 14.
>. 11' 11' <SS> »■
From the Columbian Mirkoj:.
NuMBElt VII.
e TO THE PEOPLE OF VIRGINIA.
Fellow Citizen,
IT was my intention to have confined my
remarks to the objections contained in the re
monllranee proposed in Albernntrlc. Though
I have noticed them all, yet as ftnne others
have been made in other parts of the lUte a
yainft the Alien Law, before I conclude, a
few observations lhallbe offered on them. In
4 the Hanover and Fredericfburgh relulutfons
the Alien Law is impeached of unconftitu
tionality, for uniting in the President, Le
giilative, Executive and Judicial power, and
for depriving persons within the protection
of government of a public and impartial trial
j by jury. That an alien friend, who has
committed a crime within the territory of
's the United States, is a person within the fe
vsnth article of the amendment of the a
mendments of the confkitution, and entitled
to a trial by jury, is not to be controverted.
But the alien law does, not apply to aliens
n who have committed offences, but to thole
1 who have not committed offences, but who
are fufpefted of intending to commit them.
It is. to prevent the eo rami Aon of crimes that
the Prelident is authorised to order them out
of our country, before the crimes are com
mitted. Every sovereign potver I'urelT may
take measures to prevent crimes from being
done it by aliens, and may admit them
into its territory, or for good cailfe order
them out after they come into it. Thus
then the law does not operate to deprive of
fenders of a trial by jury. . .
For the execution of this law, it was re
auilite to declare how, and by wliom, it
IhoUld be done ; and no where could it be
placed so fafe from abufs as in the lupreme
executive, appointed by the constitution. It
is a tranfa&ion in its nature executive, and
unmixed with legislative or judicial power.
Without any law it may be cjueflioned whe
ther it was not a proper function exe
cutive power to order out of the country so
- reigners who are pursuing projects dangerous
to the peace and welfare of the citizens, be
fore such projetts are carried into effect. By
9 l'ome department in government such acts
. ought to be done. The judges are po fie (Ted
] only of judicial power, and only declare
I what the law is, therefore removal of aliens is
an aft out of the power of them, and if done
3 J at all, must be (lone by the executive author
-0 *«y- •„
It is idle to fay that each state fhouldexer
cife the power*of removing aliens. A state
can only remove out of its own limits, there
ffate, alien was lent out of one
. o s** ■"* v •"wtntTj W 1
; permit him to remain there. An
1.1 dered out of Virginia might go to Conner,
j ticut—Lpon this fubjeft there must beanu
; nion of action of all the states, or it is use»
let's ; and therefore it ought to be done un
der the constitution of the United States,
which was formed to obtain an union of ac
tion upon certain subjects, and contains cer
tain powers far those ends, which, especial
ly, comprehends our concerns with foreign
nations, and requires " the United States to
protect each state from invasion and domes
tic violence." The intimate connexion be
tween a foreign ihvafion and therefider.ee of
aliens dnpofed to join the standard of the in
vaders whenever it (hall he eredled on our
land, has been fully explained as well as I
am able, and it need not be repeated.
lhe claui'e in the constitution which pro
rides " that the migration or importation of
f luch perlons as any et the states now existing
Uiall think proper to admit, (hall not be pro
hibited by congress prior to the year t8o8,"
has been altedged to be violated by the alien
, law * II 15 well known that this clause was
j meant to comprehend slaves though the
f terms are more general. The convention had
a dehcacy vfth refped to a word which
would, in their opinion, have diforaced the
» conftitutioß, and therefore this vague ex
-3 P rc ffi° n was used. That it does not allude
j to : a ir eemen is apparent, from the single
. consideration that the restraint is limited to
j a few years. Is there any good reason that
1 congress liquid be prohibited till the year
1 1808 from hindering the migration of free
> aliens, which would not have contimu-d the
prohibition beyond that period, and perhaps
always ? 1 he truth is, the migration of lkves
into a state is a thing left to the controul and
direction ol each state until the year 1808,
1 nO ,! 0 v nger 5 after whicb period that fub
jea will be under the excluiive' authority of
the federal government.
To con fide r this objeaion in another
point of view, if, after the year 1808, con
gress will have an undouhted power to pro
m*£ration of free aliens fnto the
territories of the United States, or of fend
uig them out, if dangerous to our peace,
what (olid reason ean be givin whv the like
power should not be at this day exerciibd ?
No such reason, 1 venture to fay, has ever yet
been given, either in speeches on the floor of
congress, or in remonstrances, or in resolu
tions, proposed in Virginia. If none such
can be found, I think it a firong argument
agamft the interpolation that has been f U R
gefted of this clause of the conftitutlon in
fit rogation of the power of the United States
over aliens.
The investigation which I proposed may
t»ow be concluded. I have fuffered no ob
jeftion to either of these laws to go unno
ticed upon which any reliance seems to be
plnced. I have endeavoured to answer all
of them, separately and diftinclly. In doing
this, I hare particularly aimed at perfpieuitv:
I am sure the laws have not been under
stood, and to make them intelligible, I con
udered tlje bell mode of juftifying them
thfm but be undcrftood as they really
'
' are, and I have perfnaded niyfelf to believ?
that you "will think them conftitntionaL,
and respecting their neceflity or expediency,
that you will confide in the wifdoni and pa
triotism of the national legislature, the fu.
premet councils of our countiy, to whom by
our free fuffra;;es are committed our political
existence and l'afety ; and with these, our
dearest interests of property, of liberty, and
of life.
Let us not listen to the agitators IcattereJ
through the country, busy in deceiving, busy
in alarming, busy in exciting the people a
gainst their own laws and their own law,
givers. Let us riot be misguided by men',
whose judgments and whose hearts are not
more to be trusted than our Own. Let us
not be arrayed in a body—The Common
wealth of Virginia, agairift the United States
ot America.—l fee no other point at which
the men mean to stop, who underfland and
I patronize the Hanover resolutions, the Fr
dericklburg reiolutions, or Albemarle re
monstrance. They breathe no other spirit
but that of infurredlion ; and to'give it con
liftencv and efficacy, our state legislature, at
the ensuing session in the next month, is to
be called upon to obtain the repeal of ti i
I alien and fcdition laws. A war of words s
- then to be commenced by our commonweal b
i against the United States. If words will
not prevail on congrels* to repeal the lav,
which every confide rate man mull expert to
be the result, what is Virginia next to do ?
She must either r.-treat with ignominy, or
■ more dishonorably rebel against the "Union.
Are we prepared for such an alternative ?
1 o you 1 submit the cjuefl'ion : your good
lenfe has detested the inMous a'nd wicked
i machinations of the faftious, and the ia-
I mentable errors of the rrtifmformed and de
luded—.your love of counwy will answer,
that such stall not be the deplorable 'aHe of
Virginia. VIRGINIENSIS.
m
j 3>omeftic
NORFOLK, December 6.
i Yesterday arrived here the schooner Swa!»
o W ' C i pt " L °S an > ( in distress) 18 days from
Cape Franco's In her came paflenger Mr.
Jacob Mayer, Consul of the United States
for that place, accompanied by a French
gentleman, who, we liavte reason to believe,
• is the bearer of important dispatches from
, General Touflaint to the Executive of this
country. We learn by this arrival that eve
: ; nr thing was tranquil throughout the island,
and that the crops bore a very promiling
appearance.
| 1 yesterday also arrived the American brig
; Elizabeth, from Malaga, via. Gibraltar*
53 days.
On Sunday last. 7 leagues to the south
ward of Cape Henry, spoke the United
[ States (loop of war Herald, having in cqm
j pany the Montezuma floopef war, the brig
Norfolk, and schooner Retaliation, ail cn a
, cruize, they were fleering to the south.
I ward.
1 By gentlemen, paflengers in the above
brig, we are informed, that there are up
. I wards of 100 French privateers cruidaa he.
; I yyc ae oat ansi Cape Spartel; they
mount from 8 to ,6 guns, are well manned,
and are fitted ,n the Spanilh ports, for the
purpo.e of capturing Americans. Six or
seven pr.vateers were expressly fitted eut to
capture the American Meditsrranean fleet
but their designs were fruflrated by the A*
merican vessels being well armed keeping
clofe together. . r *
At the time they left Gibraltar (the Bth
October) a secret expedition was preparine:
it was to confilt of a itrong.aa.al force, and
3000 seasoned troops ; the rumours refpefi
iog its destination were various, but general
ly supposed agai'nft Minorca.
They had received no account from ad
miral Nelson since the arrival of the Mutiae
brig ; but expefted the prize foip, there the
hrfl wmd. she Britifl, fleet, it was uader
itood, would put into Candia to refit.
Mr. Jacob Mayer, consul of the United
States for St. Domingo, arrived in tbe Swal
low, on hy way to tne feat of government,
accompanied by a French gentlemen.
Capt. Logan informs us, that the priva
teers had ce>fed to bring in American ves
sels, on account of new orders brought out
by an armed ship from France. There was
only one American vessel at the Cape (a brig
belonging to Philadelphia) when capt. L.
failed.—she had been captured fame time
: before, and it was generally fappofed, would
! be cleared.
There wag an embargo on all the French
j ports in the island : but a vessel having ar
rived with dispatches from France, it was
| expefted that it would be taken off in a few
! days, and all the privateers called in.
Capt. Logan failed during the continu
ance of the embargo, by the express perniif
fion of the government of the island, »btain •
cd at the inflance of Mr. M^er.
All was tranquil at 'he Cape.
Provisions were at follow: floor 26 dlf.
—Pork 24—Beef 16. Produce, Coffee ifc
foas—Sugir (admii.iilratiou) 7 do^U—Dit
to (private) 4 dolls.
His Excellency John Sevier, Governor of
the slate of Teaeffce, and Brigadier Genera
of the provisional army, has addrefled the
regiment of cavalry of the diftriil of Wafti
ington in that slate. He fays, " When in
jured innocenee and fiieudfhip have been
treated with haughty and unparalleled cob
tempf, how pleating and highly gratifying
muli it be to a provoked and greatly injured
country, when informed ef the gallant aad
soldiery preparations now making by the
volunteer and other companies of cavalry,
in the slate of Teneflee. The cavalry in
their answer observe, that " the citizens of
the weftem world are not divided in their
fetitiments; our confidence remains unabated
in government, and we are willing t*
step forth in defence of ovr countiy, ihouli
ncceflitv cempel the measure."
(Geiiuc »f Liberty / JALEXANDRIA, DectwWi S
TO rHK ALKX\NO*TV INDJU'ENDSXr
DRAGOONS,
eoMNtsstD ar
CAPT. JOHN" FITZGERALD.
Ct«Ul*tK|
PE RMT r me t» roquet your acceptance
of • Standard, whio'i I hi<t the honor la
prefcat to you. Tint my offering has been
delayed bv unavoidable circumftanots, is a
iilbjeCk of regtrt to me, a< I have long wifh
eJ. aed intended to pay this tribute of re
fpetk to the brave defender* of our beloved
country.
At a time when every friend to America
must feel the strongest sensations at the un
merited and repeats! iofults and injuries (he
has fuftaioed from that infolemt enemy, who
is bound by no laws, divine or human,
whose pretended fViendrtiip is meant but
to deceive, the determined fpirlt of my coui
trv.Teo. their united resolution never to fub
m*it t" foreign influence, and to forfeit ihe
refpea which ii due t.i them as an independ
ent nation, is highly gratifying to me
and particularly to, when I obferte the pa
triot ifra and military ardor whic • prevails in
America, as it induces me to-hops, that
ftirulJ invafio* impend, the Alexandria
dependent Dragoons will be among the firft
to affcrt and <icfc«<! our rights.
ELEANOR PARKE CUSTIS.
/ffcrWri*, Ditemkr 6, 1798.
»
■UMi
THE* ry eiejaat Standard of Colours
w%iek yoa kwe prdewted to rur Troop,
tc g-e bcr «r*3» ysw p"i*e wl animated ad
«Jre& «5»« »Sx .o«£«r, excited in >ur i
aj'nds all (Ut wW» necett«rily i
arise firew» proper s"jjtcS. i « » f the nature
aad arteat of Ac fcrowr, » we&l »» the im
portance <*• its
WSnei ttefi- r ÜBagjwTm <ct OJtambia fee
a necedEr? fw sa <ewKjwis«ns tSsf tuaailiilty
nitaral t» rite &v. is iffldSjMaady,,
the ami itnSiuanMis n iMiiihrf! rf tlte
■l. C reiki's oif Tusiubi.. utiil an> jjimjsi ana
t» an ate <«r.V -otoanaiaiwt if wftiidh cmbt litv
dijeniiaßS!-,, «mr Uvßiirurv, Brnf. 'die fagguadfi
«C aufciiky i'r-r ftv im,, w Ihwililiinltfl itt iruitfe
«auwiwilim line SfanKamty (fccusmK nut
fSe, nfta»ailtairiitik»!!Emi nmEikdft iyTitTalfcfhmjaU
•&&inEu citeiTdiwdtedlutingttcttevvsrniliii
fftmiilil rite (Graft fiittnr. -Ottmjpt tto jjnr tier
minuets iin tEsetuiurou, .Jjwtrrtoa,, unua in
cut™ 1® jprivwfflii ttr .viinitt Ji.lhrftilk fe
® n !hur Iftmr.-.. fEntiimmt:
note icmTibditi^yojdlaapiiraiai; gramr
-sis* itijflw
W« aamtjit. %uinim. \wttt numiiiiir gifeat-
'inTtlUnlilk rgft*,, ,unL .vnttairr- -ar
gwfmi& jcnui„ uu mcimv ttiac 'fhiuiii flutaw
cwsnsf -mnfiEir litt tt» lAHjlhg-ic at cflt
&M rf -wet, tok ffinili lhnik »x.aa j fe
ensfl jfkrtijr '..'.n'fiutr'L sv •turr '|aaariiso2tn: loi j
. enw
Ibtbi! bis, raer mmrtiwt ~<sf tbe.
M-jni which too hanc c!sofeti, we Hull ad
fcerc to its iajuadjca, ard, in drfcr«ee of ocr
Oniitry's rights—Conquer or Die.
In bet?llf~<sf" theTYucq*,
I Imre the honour to He
Your mod obedient arul
' Mod humble servant.
JOHN FITZGERALD,
Commandant,
Miss Eleanoi- Parke Curtis-,
Mount Wrnon.
I have been politely favored with a let
ter from Richmond. The Leg'flature ha 9
met T'i that City, and much warmth has
been displayed. Mr. J. Taylor, of Caro
line County, moved for leave to nbrig in a
bill for fecurirg the members of the legifla
tirre from profeeutions under the Sedition
BHI in cafe they fliould think proper, in
the course of their proceedings, te charge
Congress with an infraition of the I'onftitu
tion in the paflap;e of it, or should use any
language, of produce any resolution of cen.
sure for the adoption of the house, which
would bring them within the purview of
that aA. The motion was opposed upon
the ground of the inutility of such a precau
tion—but leave was granted far the intro
duction of such a bill, and a committee ap
pointed fonthe purpose.
NEW-PORT, December 4.
Ou Friday lafl arrived here the (hip O
cean, of New-York, capt. Moores, in 56
days from Hamburg, the Hon. Gouver
neur Morris, Esq. late Miniller Plenipo
tentiary to the Republic of France, came
pafTenger.
Capt. Moores, on the sth Od. spoke
the (hip Nancy, Capt. Childs of Botlon,
then within the Red Buoys, fix weeks from
Philadelphia, bearing up for Hamburg
Ji » Main-topmast carried away.
A Lift of American Veflels taken by the
privateers belonging to the Port of Nantz
and condemned, communicated to Capt.
Moores, by Capt. Wadfworth, of th«
brig Sally of Botlon, which was condem
ned at Isle of Rce.
Rainbow, SmitV, Charleston ; Charlotte,
Liudfcy, ditto ; Juno, Walker, Portsmouth
(N. H.) Catherine, Cogena, Norfolk ; He
be Lardeßucr, Savannah ; Oneida Sherry,
New York ; Brifiu; Brenth, do. Confedera
cy, .Jinks, do. American Hem, M-Dmigal,
do. Mary, Cheath, Botlon, Mary, Holmes,
do. Mercury, Roiven, Philadelphia ; Bach 11s
G-orge. do. Sally, Ruffct, Marblehead ;
Columbia, Lathiop, Norwich ; Cyrus, B'ake I
Cleared, only ene ; Unis, Seal, Salem.
Genreel Boarding I hf Lodgirg.
Qi.PAR\rE Init ready furniftipj Jrvirtmcniji
O «i.h ,„d dg rg for .hr aC
commwinon r.f tcur Gcmlcmtn (with their Ladiri
it requiicd) injy be l-.(t j- Xo 163, Jrch s reel. '
Dec. Ta6t
i;i)c vsasette»
PHiL.4 an lp mA t
FRIDAY SVoMKG, OKCSMBEt <4.
This day, at ti otlocl.-, the Houtc of Re
prdcntMives of the LTnitrd States, in a
body, preccttd bv their Sjieakcr, Clerk,
and the Serjeant at Arms, waited on the
l'lriufent, and pteientjd the following Ad
dress :
To JOHN ADAMS,
Pri mskxt of the Unitkd States,
sik,
THE Houle of RcprelVntatives unite
with you in dcplorSij the e(T; As of the defo-
malady by which the {est of govern
ment ami other parts of our country have
recently been vifitsd. In calling our atten
tion to the fatality of its repeated ravages,
and inviting us to cocCJer the expediency of
exercising our conftitutiona! powers in aid of
the liealth laws of thi refpefttve dates, your
recnniinendation is finftioned by the dictates
o£ humanity and liberal policy. On this in
terefling- fubjed, we feel the neceility of a
dopong evi'iy wife expedient for preventing
'< calamity l'o diftrefling to individual fuffer
i-rs and so prejudicial to our national com
merce.
That our finances are in a profperout fhte
notwithft inding the
refuking front this calamity and from ex
ternal embarraflYnpnt'i, is a latisfai\ory maiii
reftat;f>n of the great' extent and solidity of
1 t.ie refourcts. Conne'dlsd With' tEis
I situ atiofi of our filial concerns, the all'ur'- I
j ance, that the legal proviuoris for obtaining
j ivvenuc by direct taxation will fulfil the views
"f the legillature, is peculiarly acceptabl •.
D:Grous as we are that all causes of hos
tility may be remold by the amicable adjuft
•aent of national differences, we learn witli
» ■miAioii, that, in parftiance of 'our t'reA
ties with Spun and with Great-Britain, ad
vaaiMsliavrtjccn made for definitively fettling
t&r c«amtrwTeiHses relative to tlie southern and
rite awctßtafStTßi limits of the United States.
SVi^ASin.tar fcetinrrnts have we received vour.
tnfiwanatema; tfctt the proceedings under coin
ni®niiß» aartfjaria-dhy the fime treaties, af
tirefE tti a nftJEclalire jprtion of our citizens
dte erf" a Sao! cLciSoia on their claims
" jr irnun£LTmr ffimpries caainiitted by fubjedb.
as tdmlE- pnwirr.
Ik wauJii ijff tSwt dtetor of mutual feliciti
viinn, were aJTared 0f exiperieecißg fimi-
Hir tnndiirat: -1 aaJ pcMke from the French
Rfctpuiiliit. lie miMtsiii nrhich snJ the Dili ted
Sches (ffifentnoe* 6a-.r or*happily arifcrt.
3\itt uIL-tih < limited! ELfchr ultimate Ikilure of
ate una£i-ra whica fcswsr berm taken by tius
■rtmKTmsaßL tiwardiaa am'cable adiuliment
t ~ irflLuiJicc* and by the various inad
on the part of that nation.
TV c r.tlnoiffiw in force the decree of Ja-
EtMty kft, to wfsich yon" have more particu
lari)- at-rrrr'.~rx, migr*lt, or tUelf,
to be coniidenrd as demonftratK-e.of tile real
"itentions of the rrench government.—That
proclaims a predatory warfare against
t!ie uoqueftionablc rights of neutral com
merce ; which, with ouj* means jd£ defence,
our interest and our honor command .us to re
pel. It, therefore, now beconies the.United
states to be as determined Kirefidanoe as thtv
ha»e been patient in and coittlefcen
ding in negotiation.
\\ hile those who affairs of France
perlift in the enforcement of decrees lot hostile
to our etiential rights, their condudjt.forbids
us to confide in any of their profefEons of
amity.
As, therefore, the of France hither
to exhibits nothing which ought to change
or relax our nieafures of defence, the policy
of extending and invigorating those measures
demands our sedulous attention. The sud
den ajid remarkable advantages, which this
country has exijertenced from a small naval
armament, fmHciently prove the utility of
its eftablifinnent. As it the guarding
of ourcoaft, the protection of our trade, and
the facility of fafely transporting tlie means/
or territorial defence to every part of our
maritime frontier, an adequate naval, .force
mull be considered as an important objeft of
national policy. Nordo we hefitatp to adopt
tlie opinion, that, whether negotiations with
ranee are rcfumed or not, vigorous prepara
tions for war will be alike indispensable.
In this conjuncture of affair.?, while with
you we recognize our abundant cauie-of gra
ituds to the Supifine Dil'pofer of events for
.he ordinary bletfings of Providence, we re
<ard, as ot high national importance, the ma
mfeftation, in our country, of a maguani
nous fpirlt ol roli(lance to foreign domina
mn. This fpirk merits to be rfierllhed and
"ivi-rorated, by every branch of government,
•is the c(tunable pledge of national prosperity
ind glory. * 1
Disdaining a reliance on foreign protection ;
wanting no foreign guarantee of our liberties ;
relolving to maintain our natiaml indepen
tence again (I every attempt to <Wipoil us of
this inestimable trealure ; we confide, under
rovidence, in the patriotilin and enewies
of tlie people of these United States for de
bating the hollilc enterprizes of any
;>ower. ' ,J
To adopt with prudent forefight such sy
stematical ineafnrc#as may be expedient for
Cilhng forth thole energies wherever the na
tional exigencies may require, whether on the
ocean or on* L ,r own territory—and to re
concile wit.i tlie proper security of revenue
which so great a proportion of the public ra
in'n depenels-are obieiU of moment,
0 C f 1- regarded in the cottrfe of
our deliberations.
WC a " orcU ith you in the opiuicn,
that the United States ou.-l, t not to fob,nit
to the humiliation of fendmg another lh i,i.
.9 laucc without previou* (tffurartefs
1 .iihciently d-.-teaninate that he will be d u | v
ac redited—we luvc- heard, with cordial np.
probation, the drclaraticn of yf , ur purpole
(leaddy to cbknc thole maxims of humane
a <l pacific policy by which the Uniud Stan« 1
I' liair luthett J iK-on. i oterDeu. While it
left with France total* the rcqorr*ate ft.psj
fi»r it wngidhy the Chief<
Matrirtratc lit' a fire people to nrnli known
to the world, that jttfttoe on thejrart of Fr?.ace
will annihil ate even- oh'lacle to the r. ficra-'
tton of a fiVntllv intercoarlV, an,: -i ;;t
Execut'n e Authority of thr c.nmiry will re-j
(peil t' e l:icfcd rights of emb*Cy. At th.-:
lame tin-.-, the wiflom and d.xilion. which!
, have tbarAClcrifed yo-tr pall adminiftrttioti,
alVutr ai, th-.u no will f--j
i Jucc you intoiiiiy ahaWonment ofttie rijht<:|
which belong to th; Uu:trd States "7.s a fre;
and indejcndtMt lation.
To which tlv: Prcfident mad • the followiiig l
REPLY:
To the Howse of Represes-tatives of
the United States of America.
v * I
GENTLEMEN,
MY sincere acknowledgments are
due to the House of Representatives of tKe
United States, for this excellent address, so
confonaot to the charadler of representatives
of a great and free people. The judgment
and feelings of a nation I believe were ne
ver mare truly expressed by their reprcfesta
tivea, than those of our coßftituents, by
your decided dfclaration, that with our
means rf defence, our interest ai d honor
command us to repel a predatory warfare
againfl the unqoeftioutble rights of nrutral
; commerce—That it becomes tbc United
1 States to be as determined in refiltanee as
i they ha"e been patient in ludtring and con
dercendiog.innegociat.on—That whilethofe .
I who direfl'the affairs of France perfiil in. !
the enforcement of dectees, so hostile to our !
essential ights, their conduit forbids u<; to •
confide ifl arty of thtir profeffiops of amity, ■
that an adequate naval force muH beconfid- '
eredas an impcrtantobjeft ofna'ional policy,
and that whether negoci*iians with France ■
are resumed or not, vigorous preparatioos
for war, will be alike indispensable.
The generous disdain you so coolly and '
deliberately express, of a reliance on foreign
proteftion, wanting no foreign .guarantee j
of our liberties, revolving to maintain our
natioual independence againfl every attempt ,
to dispoil us of this ioeftimable tteafure, '
will meet the full approbation of every fouud (
understanding, and exulting appiaufea from
the heart of every faithful American.
I thank you, Gentlemen, for your can
did approbation of my sentiments on the
subject of negociation, and for the de
claration of your opinion, that the policy
of extending and iuv ; gnrating our mea
sures of defence, and the adoption with
prudent forefight, such fyftimatical mea
sures as may be expedient for calling
forth the energies of our country, wherever
the national exigencies may require, whe
ther*on the ocean, or on our own territory,
will demand your raolt sedulous attention.
At the fame time I take the liberty to as
sure you, it shall be my vigilant endeavour,
that no illusory profeffions (hall seduce me in
to an abandonment of the rights which be
long to the United States, as a free and in
dependent nation.
JOHN ADAMS.
United States, Dec. 14, 1798.
Dodor Logan, it is said, was so morti
fied with the reception which M. Talley
rand gave him, as to return home, with a
very indifferent opinion of that miniftertk
talents !—On being introduced to him,
Talleyrand observed that he had the pka
fure of knowing him in America, and asked
him, if he was'nt a distinguished farmer <jf
Pennfylv<nia ?—The doftor answered, that
" he was very fe-d of farming, and ha|d
made it the pleasure of hia life.Oh
then, replisd l-alleyrand, I will introduce
you to a citiren' near Paris, with whcife
fpeculationi on that fubjedt I am fur«, you
will be delighted"—and then left the doctor
snd Merlin, his favorite, to their own medi
tations. This 40.ecdote, related by the il
legitimate envoy himfelf, ia a proof that,
even among our enemies, the ignoran* pre
tenflons of this fellow, are dt fpifed by mep
of sense, and that Talleyrand, who is con
feffedly a scholar and an arch politician,
thought that the'd ftor had much better
employ his time in studying the vegetation
of potatoes, than in attempting to mediate
between two governments.
The French prifouers were removed from
New-Caftlc for Lancaller 011 Saturday last.
The picaroon which the United States
frigate came up with, after twelve hours
chafe, was the fleeteft vefTel in the Weft-
Indies, always out failing the British prui
zers.
The British naval officers in the Weft In
dies, wet,- highly pleased on the appearance
of the United States frigate, &c. in those
latitudes ; and the Commodore at Martinico,
regretted, that when the United States.
Commodore Barry pass d the Island, he did
not honor hith with a visit. Captain Barry
be ng in chafe of one of Hugue's picaroons,
called " Victor's Delight," could not pay
the visit wished, but fer.t a polite letter to
Sir Hyde Parktr, from St. Thomas's on
the fubjett.
The follow we are told, it an accu
rate calculation of the didribution of the
prize money refuliing from Admiral Nel
loti's vidtory Supposing that the nire
French ships taken fell for 30,000!. —of this
one eight ii goes to the Flag Officers, viz
one third of the eighth to the commauder
in chief, Earl St. Vincent, ard the remain
ing two thirds to Sir Horatio Neifon. The
other flag offici is, not being present, have
no ' ght to (hare, Thus of 170,0001. the
supposed gross amount of the value of the
prizes, including head and gun money, one
eighth will be 3J.7J01. of which Earl St.
Vincent gets 11,250!. —anH Sir Horatio
Neifon 21,500!. The eaptaini of the fleet,
fifteen in number, fharelwo eighths amongll
thrm, which will milks each ir,dividual
share of thii ratik, 4.50 c!.
FOR sale,
AI Tan- Y iH, wkh i'-.yct thirty »'
Lswl, a: Rock-Ran. or. it* ll.ad of ihr
si'« w.at of ia Hsrfcrd nwlt,
Mjrjl.2<*, * i ram is funis fcrcutj-Cv; Vus a
ito-c .".fill iij Fan Iloufr. with con*micu< r» of
V. ii«r ao.i other nttffaia for an tiimSw Yird,
jDwtliifj.Hoofs Kitchen and divtrt other lifrful
Wildings it trtSxi thsreoa, fosic of the U: J> m
lots well 1-nprored, a good Herring FtfWy on the
jhore. Ihe imp . orng Town of Hmc jc Gncc.
i» about fix miles di&uit jLfui *c(TeU fining .low.
tie River, pais dose ujr the prtnifci. A oy:vr
nsent S;ua?ioa to get Buk, a f.ock of which with
the utenlils for Tier.,nr. aiul all th« hides \n the
Vats mar he had with tht Yjt4. For terms apply
to John Wilioi, u?:r Harford Town, or the :-üb
fcribcr on the | rcmifr*
ISAAC WILSON,
I ith mo. 14th law :w
An Apprentice Wanted
. A TOUTH,
Of Reputable Cooneeti jns, <k fuSrient qiull&evi-ws,
is wanted as an App-cnuce lo the B.ifnels of» No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—Enquire 01 the Pi in
ter.
f ra.sw.
propose :.s
BY BENJAMIN- DA VIES,
For puUi/ling hy fubfeription ,a ftriotCral a ori
to be entitled Ibe Philadelphia Magazine
and Review ; or, Monthly Repertory of
Information and Amusement,
\ FTER the many fruitlefs attempt*, which
i have been m.vli» to eftabhfli a publication
of this kind-in Phil.yjrtph : i, the pmpolab
: fiibmitlert, wi'i, perhaps, itfirft r.-ht; .i , rfl r te
I bewothmg more than lblieittii* dujjpo'r.riner.t
: hen, however, we oMerve an rap r lcarch
. alter knowledge fpreadm* through aii parts of
our eoßutrj, an-1 when we eonfider, that, it»
i theie pursuits. AJagn-zitres and are t f
univc; ially-admitted utility, we are led to be
lieve, that lormer undertakings in this way have
; failed from some oth. r eaule than the want of
oilcerument or liberality in those, to whom the
I fcditors looked up for support.
From causes, which are too evident to need
' n '""7 ,ti . l, e here, America is, and long mull be
beholden in a very cooOderable degree, to the
: prelTss of Great Britain. The literature of the
i countries ij, indeed, a f.rt of common
I Hock ; but, for one publication of oun, vc re
cede, at lead five hundred in return While
! 'his is the cafe, it is extreme Jolly in the pub!.fli
er of a periodical work, to rejeil, from a lort of
fpunous patriotism, ail information, however
ulsful, and all amulement, heweverdelightlome,
merely because it i» not of native pmdn&ron.
Obvious, however, as the jullice of these re
marks niuft appear we have very little doubt in
our minds, that an ohftinate adherence to a con
trary notion has been the principal cause of the
want of luccefs, experienced by those who have
gone before us.
Reason and interest unite in dictating tout a
d fferent plan. The Mifcellanecus part, and
principal part, therefore, of the Philadelphia
Magazine, will confiftof choice feleflioni from
the newest publications of merit, that lhall ap
pear in Europe ; but, particularly from the va
rious periodical works published in Great-Bri
tain, of which we have taken care t» iafure the
very earliest supply. At the fame time, we trust
it is umneceflary to f,y, that we lhall always re
ceive with pleasure any original productions of
genius, in verfeor prole, of our, ow»eotmt»y ;
and we flattar «i*rfclvc* with tlfco hope of Kc,n£
oftea favoured with the agreeable talk of giving
'to such produAions merited praises and cxten
five publicity.
In fetching and arrangiup these materials, to
suit the various tastes of our readers, we are sen
sible how difficult a talk we have undertaken.
Topleale all, we do not expe& : it would be a
vaift preemption. But we are refolded to give
offem'e to none, so far as fonfllts with the fipe
rtVr rtfjietfl wc owe to the sacred cause of rHi
pfon, morality, and facial order. In thife are
involved the glory ami welfare of our'country,
and they will ilways he the PoUr-star, that lhall
guide our ltboi-s.
The Mifcellar.y will be followed by a month
ly Summny nf hewj and politics, foreign as
well as domcllici under wkich Head wij be
comprised i fuccinfl account of the ProcteJmgi
of th: General em,l Suite l.eg'Jtatves, and the
titles at lead, of all the law, they lhall eniA.
The next part of our undertaking, is a Re-
I'ieio, of the principal works of note pubt'fhrd
in flreat-Brifa n. Forthis we tnufl necelHtrily
havefecoutfs to the Kevicws of that country.
Though it will he impoffihle Cpr us to furnilh at
complete an analysis is that.fom wliich we. (hall
take our materials, we (hall not fail to give such
an account of e-uery publication reviewed in that
country, as will c nvey to otir rraders informa
tion fufilcient to enable them toavjilthemfe|ves
at a very eirly ((age, of e -rry valuable pi-rfnrm
ancs thit (lull appear. The advantages ariling
from futh information jr# evident. For want
of it otir profefliona! msn an 1 men of tafle are
always krtiT a yeur or two in th» rear of those
of Great-Britaiij. We do not hear of a work
tjll a long time after it is published, jnd many
very valuable ones we never heir of at all. All
•he Vartoti* fnjuries and privations we fuffer
from thjf fourcc will, wc flatter ourselves, t.c
entirely done away by z fltjdy adherence to our
plan.
To that of foreign, will b:: added a Review of
Dome/lie Publications ; and btrt, we miiftcon.
fels, that we feel fotne difli lence, beeaufe the
execution of the talk mull depend, in a great
mejftire,' upon the abilities of ourfrlves. Ho v
ever, with s firm resolution to he guided by de- I
cency, candour, jnd truth, and t® take genius
and viitue bv the hand, whenever, atid in what
evrr carb. we may find them ; with no wi(h to
wound tlie feelings of anv but the wicked, and
with thrrooft finceie desire of f*ei-g our coun
trymen shine in every department nf literature,
we doubt not, that wo lhall be able to acquit
ourselves to the fitisfaiflion of all those who
have the good : n.-.ture fairly to appreciate our
motives, and the jullice lo make allowance for
human tmperfeilions,
The work will clofr with a monthly record
of Marriage.', Hirthj, Deaths, Promotions, and
other rafual incidents.
As to what c ticerns the politics of this coun
try or of Eurape, at thit moirentoiis peiiod, we
(hall always view with jealoufv every meafiire
of the French Government, and it'a ever aifliv.' ,
emiflarirs j and if in thisrefpeift some men con- ,
fider us as partial or prejudiced, we (hall submit
| to their censure. For so full is our conviction
that the war, which now dtfolatrs Europe, »nd
menaces this country, is a war »>f ambition and
p'utuler, on the part of Frai ce, that nothing"
tan iiid'ice us to concesl our fentimcnts, or to
wilhh Itl the /mall afSflancc that we can
tribute to ojjpofe thrtn. For this reason wc in
tend to devote .i page or two of ewry number
to biftorical faCls. anecdi-tei, ii.d remarks t>ii'
the Politics of Prance, from the age of I.ouls
the Fourteenth to the present, more alarming c
p<v h, Pr.r mnr" titan a century pilt has that
refllefl and tmbitious peop e been like a volrsno
in the centre of Europe, difturhing the surround
ng State* hy its lntr' r j , and oh.-i ir ev>»y
- fijr*!! •» lr* JF!M »vctmln us n-o.t I. nil*
rou -A-i'h ami carnage.
Ind rdin more thin eighteen hundred f-iN
i finer tl e grvit Komin O l!> r* it hi»
I dutvto uirii hit countrymen aga : nt tlia* rotl*
, J at>d iliofr j rincip'r , fvit \» .uh the present
i r-vc- tf Ainftare as juitly ta he dreadnd »s-.their
i l*raec s>>c?ft9<s ; " Ca.:i<jUemtit* JMfkdextt
■ l-wius, f rjiiij, j„ ,# lirnt im
m -rta.'ri '
Br the proper MMmycaaent of this t«pic oar
■ .' >un rynun wi Ihc a 1 t <*< e the real chat of
thcna:ton, which tfce/formerly ef> fiJcrt.l tltheir
friends, hot now more justly execrate tttli irm-»ft
rt»»-rmi* enrnue»; aad they wdlbe better pttpkr
• ed to apprechtc any overtures, that may fee nu4e
herea'ter, for the retlorition of » rice and amity,
In the execution of thii part of our par
ti.niarl; '• we lo V with confidence tor the lupport
•ad alEflaoce o all pcrfuca who (hail coafider our
motive-as laudable, and therefore wilh to contri
hate to the fucecfs of our detign of all who
. think, with us, that the prefsha, been tea long an
engine of eftrii&an, an ! ttiat it ought, at length
to he rendered a at in of pr. fetvauoo, and an id.
ftrutr-ntof pet.iiiou."
* Cicsao.
" l.iteritmre, well or ill conduced, is the great
™ entire by which, I am fol'y peri'uided, all «i
---" rihfed States nuD ultimately he supported or
" overthrown." Pm uu tf Liitrvtu*.
Tie CONDITIONS.
This work will he public«J in Monthly Number*;
.and if a moaeratAen^ouri^eMtt t is givm the
firil number will appear oc «lio f: rlt day ot feb •
ruary neat, , v
! Ea. h DUWkr will iontain *t eail'Pilty pajjes of
i litter pitfs, in under • bin* It
> ill be pri .trd 011 ia r -u«l sj A paper ; and,
o» soon at our li t qt t<ti(Vr.bees will w.rrai.c
the cxpencs. every ru-nVr wjji be cftt >clli(kcd
Witfi an elegar: . rj-rar'ntf.
The price to ;»« SuVcvibcr, will be twrnte-five
c.u'.si'cr «Jt nuatbtr, to bq paid en Jet.vur at
b~mc one us tiie ptae< > 4pec«fi<t* heu»v, * ,tw
the luMeripti his li • b f u lecrived ;aul as fuetl
a- hr ir; i»t ro make a i|i». .tune \*<*
ium-, they wf Mtc botfid toreth r,t> i. h lub
fcri'Jvr»a h io!c t, il e/ [> y tue add t.anal
♦rperce.
Sah^;:io'.itn* will bereven-ed b* BeHimin Dnii.
at No, 6>t 1-f M-ret, whe c tliefiv. urs nf s'l C ■ *
tifpoivifnu o* whkhthe polls , n>s Hern pjia, will
i»e im u-rtj, a*.u uivatiei icd u, a> well b) -li vh«
principal 3 CiL-ieJ ers in ihr my i h ■ Get,ii>« lull,
Mookl.-ller in Kjltitn.ve ; and bv U-um
mond, Boos, teller in New.York.
FOR BREMEN,
'MIK BIIIG
i : »f SPECULATION,\
t A«nd Wiirud, Masth,
NOVV liying at Henry Pratt's wharf, the firft
hdow Rice fired—(he is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twenty ton» burthen ; will fail with
all poftlble dispatch—For freight or pjff.igc apply
. PRATT Car ICIMT2ING,
wo. 9J, north IVattrJircett
Who have for file, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ.—
Ticklenburghs Patterbornet
Ornibrigs Checks
Medians Stripes
Brown rolla Slippers
Coffee bags Cirakricks
—Plstillas Twine
Brittsnias GUI. tombler.
F.Jtopiilles p urt wine
siDelrticld linen Bnmftone,& .
Dor oils
-VWCeiabfr t 3 th.fa.m«,. lw
" —
the armed ship MOLI-Y,
wfesi&Li Burthen 140 Tons;
,d. * " out v «l'-f«und tresses. bhe it no«r
to ric ive her CiVgo, and will
"fr • Vgi.iil 01 the firft epeniofj of th« riwr.
I hrje-iciiirrlw of hrr I,oadiß|| already pta.
vj led—lor Freight for the remainder, or Vaffiure,
apply to , '... v b
NICKLIN &. GRIFFITH.
* fc - ni-l." f
NEJV AO r XLS, PLATS
MAG AZ WES, tfc. '
Chalk's Circulating Library.
Ao. 75, A%itb ThirtlJtrnt.
THR Proprietor, in ,•-nmpllanee with bis pro.
miles to render this Inftiumon a complete
Pource of rational anitifrmcn: ami inftruftion Dy
repeated ncqnifitinns of eatert.iirtuig and intereft
infr, puhlirstintis, his now
collcfllon Fouf Hundred V<#lu.mei of mifcclla
r.eimi works, rnmprifinj nrarly ill ,h e latefl
puM/.rA Novels end VnimnU froJuflions
rot»lr.V R es of which are ri-ai'y for delivery to
■ fubfcriliers. 7
j N B. Snhfcrihers, and ortter-s, who flill re
i V" 1 ta '' en fi"<>tn the I<il>iary previous to
| tbe sickness, are requested to retnm them imme-
I diately : the fines *UI lie charged from the i 4 tb.
| of November.
Englifli & American rtaying Cards,'
Sold IVholtfaU and Ritail. '
£>• Wholtfale dealers fupplie.l With BoSTo*
Cards at the fame prices a. at the manufaflory.
rr F ' ne " JVore<l Imperial, Yoorip' IlyfoD.llyfon,
Hyson Skin, atid Soiithong I JJA6.
dfC " tmßw
/ q) b
Forty Dollars Reward,
iOSToo 'J'hurtday I,»A th« (Sthlnftaiit.
... Markjt htrret,between S h Ik 7 th lltree..,
a R e«! Morocco pocket JJjA cophininp fix
JJ a p f °' F'ty D illar, r. ch, tnj ftrall
Notes for 9pc Il'indrid* and Ten Dollara
also tundry receipts and of no use
but to the owner—the *bout reward wfli be
Kcrfon. who JeJivera the hmc
w If ' ac and J.rwera,
t • ISAAC OAFFMAN.
dacemher 13, : f. fc<fcthjt
lnfurance Company of North America.
TIIE STOCK HOLDERS,
ar#.hereby jnfHXneb, that a stated , rfrt '; n£r
of the Compaoy.wtli their Office
fit) the Bth X)( jlnnmy n.Xt, (hewg ,h- t e
'<&* J, Uer ? a H n M Month) for The f ! tc .
tion of twenty five Direaori Ur the enfu.
ing year.
E. HAZARD, Sec'rr,
Dec. inh. 7' *ll' * '
bilOl- MAKER Sff BER RETT,
• 7
HAVF SIKfIT'D THFIR
INSURANCE OFFICE *
to No. 9, fodth' Front' street.
Their room at tfie Cuffee house will continue to
he attended from 12 till 2 o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Counting-house to the
lime place, where he has for sale a few pipes chiica
I.ondon Paatieular Madeira Wire ; French and
spanish Brandy ; Claret in casks ard c. f" 1, of su
perior quality, and a few Packages Glaf> and
Queen's-ware ; also, a quantity of Carolina Soal
leather, which will be fold very low to close the
files.
Philadelphia, 11 mo. 1;, §
THE CARGO] '
Of the Ship INDIA,
Captain Ashmf.ad, from BATAVIA,
Consisting of
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fii ft Quality—.to he Sold, by
MORDECAI LEWIS.
dec it daw
FOR SATE;
BY THE SUBSCRIIIERS,
14 four poitnd Cannon, different lengths,
5 Carronades.
JOHN NIXON & CO. |
December I. $
To "be soldT
Ji quantity of choice 1 imothy Is? Clover I
' H A Y.
Enquire of the Printer.
December 7 d6t
For sale by the Sitbfcribers,
The Cargo of the Schooner.
Sincerity, from I.AGUIRA, j ,
250 feroonsofcot vi j ;
40 do. of indigo ;
52a fanegas of cocoa ,
2056 hides ,
4 bundles of gum
Sbafrels } COFFEE
I bale of Deer Ikins j
Willings & Francis. \
December ie, 1798 tits
The Sublcribers J
received by the late European arrivals, the i
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on configßment, which c
they offer by package to Wholesale Store Keepers,
cr others, cn very advantageous terms, for ca(h,
approved notes, or bills of exchange on London.
Medford Willis,
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
shawls
Jluflins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
Balaloie, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and sundry haberdathery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Dttrants and calamancoes
Worlied, cotton and fancy liofiery C
I'clt, caitor and beaver hats
i o kfliire plains and broadcloths
Main and twilled coatings andduffills J
Caffiineres and lwanfdowtn si]
Snipe, point and role blankets
While colored and WeKh fhnnela _______
Kiupt Kendall cottons
Worjted and mohair plulhes
Pewter, alforted in small calks
Spades, shovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
ioc calks nails alTorted,
, Iri
nov 11 $
f tiE I'AR rNER SIIIf OF "
Alexr. J. Miller, Ss'Co.
BEING difn.lverl on the firtt -nftanr, by the ~
death of James Davis, allperfotis indebted
» t<J the fame art requested to fettle with the sub- H
Jeribtr, and thof. to whom th-y are indebted are -■
leifiefted to call On him for payment. °f
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
fei
Who has on hand, 7!'
7 di<
TO BE DISfOSfD OF ON LOW TERMS) l
By the Package or Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins n,
Guzzennas
Baftas n,
Couaes'*
Rabobj;'jngies
India Callicoes
Book Muslins _
Coloured ditto i
l<eal & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfs. (bo
Brown SileCias nai
Tickings', Isfc. iSc. n c
for
JUST ARRIVED, Co
ASASSORTMENTOr
Iriih Linens & Ruflia Sheetings. r F e n
nov 18 (5 Bai
" ■ | ... fllf
FRESH FRUITS.
This dty, will he landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from ou board the brig Eliza,
captain Vatighan, rr
MALAGA FRUITS, 1
Of the best qualify, conMing of Hai
Sun Raisins in kegs, ton
Muscatel and Bloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes, o)r d
Soft /helled Almonds in sacks, rat<
Jordan do. in boxes, but
Lemons in cheft6, hea
Anchovies in kegs,
Prtietts in boxes, j
A few jars Grapes, See. &a. mil ]
Also on hand, Nc
Holland Geneva in pipes, Fro
Sherry Wine in quarter caflcs,
French and Spaniih Brandy in pipes and
butts. I
' Bed Olive Oil in boxes of 12 bottles. f u "
Fur Sale by PETER KUHN, Jf"
No. 179, N. Market Stregt. j nc ]
6. diot Joh
coon WAGES JI
WTJ.L be glvm to a I'erVart Man, wh6
an l.ri'.r; a good recpminendation, and will
j1 .plv at Nr. 13* Walu'ut-ffnee:, U
dec. as. dtC JS
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front ilreet, rri . n
Ce;. 10. N
Dancing Sciiool.
* •>
TT/riXUM M'DOUGALL presents his r?f
---' v V » pe&£ul c ?rrplimcnts to th? public : ra-ses
the Hheity of info-mir>g them, that at the requell
of many of his former employer*, he will open
hi«> 'CHoot, at his 13ali. Room, in Fourtli, bet
to w* oll C'lefrnit and WuJnut Greets on the fir ft .Vion
'and Dwetfm'-er—For Young LaUies at ten
1 | o'clock in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
j fix in tV.e evenings of Mondays, WednefUays and
Fridays.
ncv. 23 eoim
Lv"
,c " Indebted to th» Eiiate of Mr. John FiNJio.ltte
rV'' of Hhiladelphia, deceal'ed.are dtlired to make piy
-1 mefit, aiW those having any demands, to prtfent
aa , them far fettler»er.f, to
BAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
: the or •
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
* to the administration.
Nov. 3o
Lancalter County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR S/ILE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
dec X $
WjOtißUkT ACADEMTT
HHHE Trufteesof the Woodbury Academy,
ths, X in the county of Gloucefler, New-Jersey,
1 have the to inform the numerous
i patrons of ih at infli tut ion, thar they have en-
I g<'ged tie Reverend Thomas PiSon, to be :hc
j principal, and to take upon himfelf tlia thirge
■ of the above seminary of learning, and that the
er ! i'chool wifl be opened on Monday the tenth in ft.
Among the exercifss taught here, will be the
English, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
i cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all
1 its branchesj Stenography, Geometry, Geogra*
phy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur
veying, &c.
This inflitution was formerly under the care
| and direflion of the Reverend Andrew Hunter,
and the fame attention to the education and mo
ra J s . '^ e y° ut h> which under him so highly
distinguished it, will be pursued with unremit
ting endeavors, by the prelent principal and du
ly attended to by thetruftees.
"I be town of Woodbury is situated on an high
aui elevated spot : It is airy, pleasant, and re
markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant
from the City of Philadelphia.
f Parent?, guardians and others, who arc dis
posed to fend their youth to this place, will find
exceeding good, decent and comfortable board
'-e ing and lodging, and upon reasonable terms.
Further applicatkin may be made to the prin
ich cipal, or
-i's, ~J Q hn Sparks
l " 1 » Thomas Hendry
Franklin Davenport
,joJ)juaL. Howell Trustees.
et ' John Blackwjod
John Lawrence
Thomas Hejlon j
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
Wosdbury, Dec 3 - diot
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK y WATCH MAKER,,
Corner of Front and Market ftrects, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials,
consisting or
Mills,larae aniifhiall Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbcnches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra
ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch brush-
Cf, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
small Hammers, Clock dials, cail brass Bells, for- '
ged w»>rk and pinions, Emery, Rotten«i»one, Pu- ,
mice stone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brau, Steel and (
Iron wire, Iheet Bras«, m?in springs anf glafles
gold, gilt, and ftfcl chains, seals and keys, &c. &c. J
Cj* Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
nov-,ii eodtf '
c i Notice is hereby *Jiven,
1- ' I 'H/VT application will be made at the Trea
e f" r y of the United States for she renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents, r
funded jiebt—Handing in the name of Robert
mi/oa of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of the honprable United Company of ''
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In- a
dies, which were loft from on board theSSwa- e '
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New- n
York. - Dolls. CtJ. t(
No x 0,444, Reg- office 14th Dec.
1793, one certificate for
No 10,478, Reg office 17th Dec. _
1793> one certificate for 1959 50
Ellijloti & 'John Perot.
nov 13 eod6w
Whereas the certificate of two 0
(bares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No. 3182,iffued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the British packet
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the faitt certificate loft ; and for the
• renewal ot which, application is made at laid "
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to "
take notice. .
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
j Phtla.-Oift. y6, 1798. eo6w
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fold for ealh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—-Jonathan "
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber- T
ton, Those who have used them give them the f"
preference to any other kind, as they require r
lefs team, break the ground better, are kept in
»rder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper ar
rate—the plan is much Amplified and confillsof 1",
but one piece of taft iron, with the handles and
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put 011 with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights for vending with inftru&ions for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 312 North of
Front-(lreet.
Who hat for Salei in 1
Or to l-eafe for a term of Tears,
j A number of valuable traa» of Land, well et >
! situated for Mills, Iron .Vorks or Farms, most
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun- No
lingdon ftatt of Pennsylvania. Those who may 1
incline to view them will please to apply to
Johs Canan esq. near Huntingdon. _J
Claries Ntwhold.
j' jl 7 '7 aawlf
Horses to Winter.
HORSES wiU.Ue taken in to wiurer at Pro
ject Hill,at the u Mil* Stone, on the Cal
j Eiilltilroid ; they will be weH fed with tlovcr
and tiinethy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will alfuhaVE a large field to exercise themfclves
in when the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr.
Williftm HcH, merchant, Watet llrcet, or on the
premises.
Noy. 7 wftf , 1
F J R SA L E,
No. 7. Sount Fou R tU-STR.ejb - L
r?f _ I 1503 pieces Nankeens,
'•ses A tifis of Silks
nef) 20 Boxes pewdered Sugar Cindy of T33WO
A parcel very iiae Callu.
>L ' ( ' c. H.ttCH'r.
on " (!<-r ? I'wiw
'at ' iO~R ■> I I'.. j
md By the Subscribers
, 200 Bolts Rudia Duck,
r p;iit nine pouf.d Cannon
' : te A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
*Y~ iioo bs Fine Flota Indigo
'ent 2 , u,i n - c ! s Beef.
Willings Francis.
Penn-ftreet, \
nt Novembtr 28 J §
Imported
~~ la the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
!t, AND FOR SALE,
AT REASONABLE PRICES AND ON A LIBERAL
CREDIT, BY
_ PRATT Isf kINTZTNG,
North Water street.
215 bales & boxes ficklenburghs,
V> hempen linens and oznabrigs from i/j to
■ ' 3/per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
he 40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
e 20 do. Tlrong do. do. for cotton do.
he 30 chests pUtillas 1 do. sealing-wax
r',. 3 do. dowlas 3 packages oii-cloth
L U 30 do. creas ala Morlaiz 4 do. fail-twine
12 do. eftopaillss I dd. watches
, rm 15 do. Bkilefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterbcines 92 cases claret
AS do Brittauias 130 do fine long corked
I do. Holland canvass claret
I do* Rulfia do. 1 bufiiels fine lalt
0 3 do. Ruflia ftieetings 40 cafksofroll brimflone
7 I do. ravens duck aoo calks of naval itores.
ir " 1 do. Rnilia driUens 50 logs prime mahogany
u * I do. brown holland 4 hhds. coffee mills
a do. Silesia rouans 6 bundles German steel
I dfi.Wahrendrop linen 10 chests oi slates and
c- 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
nt 1 do. FTcmifh linens A package of fkafces
I do. cambricks and \ do. woolen caps, &c.
f- lawns 4 chests of Nurenberg
id Ido diaper toys
12 do. llripcs 40 ke£s of yellow -6chre
18 do. checks 3 hhds. Glue
\i do. fiamois 8 barrehof Lentlllei
I do. Arabia stripe $ cherts of prime red
I do. bunting for color- crust Holland cheefc
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I do. Turkey yarn 460 fides of upper and
5. 6 bales empty bags foal leather
I chefl hair rihliand 300 boxes window glass
3 boxes rapes, ail'orted 800 Demijohns
z do. bobl>LTj afir>r(ed 50 boxes glass tumblers
I box threads 5c tapes assorted
1 do. fine blue liftados 2 hhds. pumice stone
5 cheiis men's flippGrs 1 box of mill saws
3 ticks I calk of cutlery
a calls hog's bridles A quantity of Hone jugs
6 che{!s writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills \ fww (hips anchors, &c.
i, novci nker 1 a tu&ftf
To be Sold,
J OR EXCHANGED,
1 tor property in the City, or within Thirty
milts of it,
1 A Valuable KattiwHon,
IN Tufcorora Valley, MilTlin county, containing
ab®ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing fire am', that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of a
a Country Mill. For further information apply at c
No. 68, Market flreet. t
november 20 < taw
FOR &ALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land\
Lying in Gloucester County,
State of Neip.Jerfty, I
TWENTY-FOUR acres of whichaie
Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This ,
land Jies about half a mile from Ticaber-Cretk, -*
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
eounty road parting thraugh it, and the great
road only two miles distant. For terms, apply n
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Sbippen,
bei ween Second and Third-flr^ets.
gc 4
advertisement. €
Todd & Tvlott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
assigned over their effefls, rial, personal, and
mixed, to the fubfcribcrs for the benefit of all
their Creditors.— M
Notice is hereby Given,
T'O all persons who are indebted to the said
estate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir relpedive accounts to
either of the aflignees, in failure whereoi, legal
mealures will be taken for the recovery of such
debts as are not difcbaiged without delay.
John Waddingtan ~l
John Rhodes L Aflignees. V e
Join Allen. J bo
nov ' 26 , tu.lh&fatFi in
ALL PERSONS, a
HAVING demands againlt the Eilate of {*}■
Henry SchaFfer, deceased, late ofthe L
City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeeper „
are requested to jurnilh their accounts properly
authenticated and all perfyns indebted to said
Eflate are desired to maice speedy payment to
CASPAR W. HAINES, } '
FREDRICK GAUL, j a'{>"'n'Jlnators
i.ith 7~°. 13
Notice is hereby given, T
THAT application will be made to the treasury
of the United States for the renewal of the follow- WC
lHg Certificate? of fix per cents, funded debts, fiand
in the name of Jane Gahiclte Rigaud, of Geneva
which were 101 l r rom on board the Swallow Pack- 1
et, Capt. Kiiiii, Irom f almouth to New-York.
KT r•% rr DulU.
No.3l9s.Reg.office 19thMay *95, icert. for loco A
13,181. Aj. 14th do. do. x do. for
Willings & Francis. as -
O.'l ober 14. eod6w. ucl
~forTsalk -
Rice, in whole and half Tierces
Carolina and Georgia Indigo. a
AN I) A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins. i' lc
Apply to 1
\N. J. Frazier, any
Ne. 95, So. front Street- vaij
november 13 3t> w 3 w <J
jktA .1 AVO 14 j:1 J LES.
UNJTfD STATts, ) _
Penul'ylvania Diliriil, 5 ' C "
we. T - N ". P' jrlulll « °l a writ to me direfled from
-I the hon. Richard Peters, Efqiire, Judge of
the Di'ii til Court of the United States, in, and
for tlie Peiinl'ylvania Diilricl, will be expcfed
to Public Sale, at the Morcliant's Coffee Hoof;:,
in the City of Philapelphh, on Saturday the
15th day i.l I'ecember inilaut, at 12 o'clock at
noon, the armed French vcilel tlia Jaloux, with
her apparel, guns, and apurlenanecs, captured
me by the public armed ship the Un ited S tates,
John Barry, Esquire, commander, in the said
Diftrifl Court condemned as forfeited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS Marihal.
Marshal's Office, Dec. 7, 1798.
Uuitbd States ")
> Pennsylvania Di.lriS. J
TN Purfuanee of a Writ to nu- directed from the
i honorable R. chard Feters, esquire, Judfreof the
Oil.nit Court ot the UniteJ States in and for the
""Pennf)lvania Dillria, will be exposed to public
sale at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe 111 the City of
Philadelphia, 011 Saturday the fifteenth day of
iL Dccembea instant, at I a o'cl ck at noon, the arm
cd French vessel, Le Sanfpareii, with herappar-I,
guns, and appurtenances, captured by the public
, et< armed Ihip, the United Status, J >hn Barry, efn
Commander ; and in the laid Dillria Court, con
' dcmn .:d aj iorfeited.
t0 WILLIAM NICHOLS, marflial.
Marlhals Office >
ns December 7, 1793 j
r THE SUBSCiuBEIU: 7
Of the City Dancing Assembly
ARE informed, that theKirll Assembly will be
0« /held 'an rhurfdr.ytf-e aotU isll. atCELLERs Hotil.
Thomas IV. Francis 'James Gib/on
Thomas Ketlaml Jonathan Williams
Ilathciu Pearee Step/: ell Kingston I
William Macpherfon Samuel Murgatroyd
December 11
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
ae miles ol the city, or toilet 011 ground-rent lorever
j S y ' Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
el Enquire of William M. Biddie. lie. 147, Chefnut
id llreet.
nnv iz $
c. t Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
2 THE tUBsCIiIBERS
INTENDING to decline rheir ptefent Bufnefs, J
offer for sale, at reduced prices, a handsome
aflortmcnt ol IroEmongery, Cutlery, &c. an lots
to suit the purchasers.
r G John Green Co. '
y No. i 6, Narth Second street. c
03* Ironmongers
Will find the above Goods wot unworty their 1
attention.
* nnv 22 d 1
— L- 1:
5 Dobbin & Roberts, 1
TAYLORS, li
RESPECTFULLY inform theirCuftomers, and
the Public in gernral, that they have remo- r
s ved from No. Ix 4, Ckefiut Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street; a
Where orders in their line will be thankfully re- £
ceived and diligently attended to.
November 13 m\v&f,«v fl
- t<
r French Language.
(>. DUFiEF, 7Z p
, 63» South Second Street, tl
WILt OHI n ; f,
; His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL, "
On Wednesday, the 14th Injt. al
N. B.- Private Tuition attended to as usual
and I ranflations irom either Language into the
other, performed with accuracy, fecrccy, and
dispatch. _
n->v - 10 rvvtf
John J. Parry, /
CLOCK fe* WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38, _
South Second street—where he has for
A VARIETY OF /
Excellent Gold Silver Watches, it
AND A FEW, rc<
Eight Day Cclocks, th
Which will be warranted to give fatisfaSion. p"
An alTortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chain), Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch <vjork done kvith
particular attention as heretofore. E
An Appren ice wanted.
November J2 r , '
LARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street. At
First quality London Particular / ~7,,.T ne tri'
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon 5 H4JNbS - bo<
Cognise Brandy, ill to 4th proof. wo
Sprits. ♦
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or
e£ 3 iaw&f2w " 1
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. " 1
DESERIEO tall night, a second time, from ' \
the Marine Camp, David Lupcr, a fifer.— ((
He had when he went away, a plain blue jacket and " !
veft,light blueoveralls, a round hat,which ' •
bouiid with yellow, and which he had ripped off "
in his niil deftrtion, and a pair of nrw shoes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, lardy fciir Ul "
fallow complexion and a nitch ia his upper lip "?*'
His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few f
days ago He may bo discovered by his fifeine, 0
as he plays extremely well. s *
W. W. BUKRO WS Major Com. of the *
O>stober 17. Marine Corps. M
The time of an Adive \\
BLACK BOY,
WHO is about sixteen years old, and has five vvl
years to serve, to be disposed of. He is r -.|
well acquainted with the buliuefs of a farm, and '
bandy at cooking or waiting in the heufe. En
quire at the office of thij Gazette.
Dev. 26 eojw
WANTi'.I),
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN.to take care T°
-L \. of children, Ihemuft be well recommended 1
is good temper, bonefty, sobriety and cleanli- ha ' l
r.efs.—Enquire at No 158 Maket St. chan
D«c. ir, Stat<
1- 0 a nu;
Ready Furnijhed Apartments.
table
TO LET, READV FURNISHED, ® h , a f
A FRONT Parlour and four chambers, wirh *f 1
the use of a Kitchen and Cellar, in a 7*!^'
I'lcafant f art of Arch ftreit ; enquir* at the olice '
of this Gazette. Unit
N. B.— As the furniture is all rcw, it pp c'udes c " 01
any apprehension ol contagion fro.Ti the late pte
vailing fever, Trent
dcceaibrr 13 eoijt
Bank of North' Ameriea.
Stockholders ar c hereby notified, that "*s
Eledion for twe ve DireAors, for the e-ifu n i
eTf V£J? he ' dat th: Ua,lk cn MomuV.dS
eof 14th of January next, at ten o'clock
,5 «. C 'R;
I'£ IMPORTED,
kat In the Ships Attive and. Liberty
from H/imburcu.
Ticklenburghs,
fc id Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
the Brown Russia Sheetings
the German Lindfeys,
kiic Bed Ticks, &c.
01 . For Sale by
ot GEORGE PENNOQK.
nl no. 103 Market-street.
r "'> nov 20
#lic : L.
NO T I C E.
ALL Persons indebted to tke Estate of Wil.
liam Beayclnmp, lately ifcceafed, are de
sired to make immediate payment and those who 7
have any claitrn against (aid Estate to produce
- thuir accounts properly attested to
,r Sam/.- Price, executor.
be "" V 10 dim
BITOT ~—
OK THE FIRST BIUI.ITV,
ms And fit for Irdia voyages F a v Sa'- By
WILLIAM SHEAFIC
No* 168, High Street.
_ nov - *3 dtf
• FOR SAL E,
•ty By the Subscriber,
er . Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, to 7,
S 3 On moderate terms i\v Cadi or a ftio-t credit,
lt . James Lyle,
South Seventh Jh-eety near Chef,tut.
nov 16 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
deserted,
fs, From a Detachment of Men under my com
ne mand, at Camp Weft Schuylkill; viz.
Otflo'ber 20.
/""•EORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
VX feet 6 inches in height, da*k hair and
, t . complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, speaks,
broken Englilh aiid very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
hoy ember 6. John Mtirplw, 17 v*ars of
a l, e ) 5 7"I iflehes in height, grey eyes, dark
- hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub sri, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob I den, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
'"gh, grey eyes, sandy hair, frelh complexion,
,d born in New-England, state of Conneflicut, a
j. repeated deserter, by trade a BUckfmitb.
Aovember 7. VV illiam Collins, 3oyeais of
a g e > 5 s ett 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
fome time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
- to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above delerters are very much addict
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
'btvr regifnental Wliofoever appre
hends laid deserters, lhali receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reafoti
able expences, by appiying to me as above,
1 EDIVARD MILLER, captain
e regiment of Infantry commanding.
j nov lo §
BALLAST.
AQUAN TITY to be dilpofsd of, if applied for
immediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lyiDg
W». HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard,
november 1 o. j
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
gLi:nft the estate of William I'i. Mas, ciecc led,
, late of tlu city of Philadelphia, Tavern keener, are
reqyelled to furnifii their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all peri'ons indebted to laid estate
pre r.-q jested to make payment to the lubfcriber m
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr,
OClobcr 3111, 1798.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT :
ME IT XEMEMBEJtED,
r /' THAT on the twelfth day
\ / of Augufl,ia the twenty-third year of
'■* the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef the laid dif
trid, hath deposited in this office the title of
book the right whcreol he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By "enjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D.Correfpoadent Member of the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Piulclaphical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy ot Arts and Sciences of
" Ballon, Cotrcfpor.didg Member of the Malfa
" ohufetts Hillorical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Mtdica, Natural Uillory and Botany
" in the University of Pcnnfylvauia."
In coi forintty to the act of the Cougreft of the
United States, iatitled " An ail for th«
ment of learning by securing the copies of majs»
charts, and books, to the authors and
of tuchcopies during the times thar.in mmtioned.'*
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cierk, Dill, of Penu'
November 2, 1798..
A Young Man,
WHO writes % good hand, under Hand*
accounts andean be well
wants it Situation as Clerk or Assistant jn a.
Vvholtfale Store, or Couuting-hcule. App!i«
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 §
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, »f Philadelphia, who ha*
for a few years pail been in the fouihern States,
has had the effrontery to draw feveralßill' of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, hfq. Secretary ol
: State, and mylelf.and by that means h-sdefraudtd
a number of petl'ons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public charadei 4 and repu
table merchants highly rcctimmaidatory of said
ShaeffkT; to one »1 th-fe papers I find iwy name
fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; tbele arc
villainous torgtries! To prevent further imposition,
1 have to rcquefl the j rinters of Ncwfpapers in the
United States topublilh this lor the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MERECII H,
Trcjfurer of lb: Unnai State*.
Trentcn, Nc-n-Jerfiy,l
OClljx Z4. '79>>- J