'K '
#afette UllttelS States, —Philadelphia
By John Ward Fenno, N O, 119 Cbefrut Street.
Dumber 1908.3
Subscribers to this Ga-,
zette at Germantown, to whom, [
(owing to r&cent disastrous events) t
their papers may not be
direded, will be turmfced with them
jon applic-ionst .«•«*» ££
Germantown, whither an extra
number, for thai purpose, will con
■ftantly be sent. B><J 8 >< J
£T Remote Subfcril?ers for this Ga- I
vette are requeued to forward pr. pott, I>(
the arrearages due from them refpe£W V
W Postmasters who may have receiv- ?
5 subscriptions are earnestly desired to . %
'remit the &me. At this mterfcft.ng and u.
'diftrefling crisis, attention to this notice 3f> .
Will peculiarly oblige the Editor. 33,
post-office! I:
Philadelphia, September 26. 8,
Tl If Mail Tor Nev -Caille, CaMwell bridge.
Duck creek, Dover, Frcdenca Mils >rrl,
Ceoipctou-n an ! Delaware ;
Trop aid SnowhilT, Marfan*, Horn Town,
Accomack court house, a«d Northampton court
licufe, Virjjitiia ; wHI be c'ofed at this oflic. ev
ery Moncav, Wednefnav and Friday at half part
eight o'clock, A. M. until id day of April,
* 799 ' ROBERT P ATTON.
September 06 <l ' l ' >t
Hank of the United States.
Philadelphia, S.ptumber 2r, 1798.
The public is hereby informed, that ifl
an Office of Profit and Discount will bt opened
on Monday us*Li£lh« houfl late, V """I"™ "f ably
• SAmdi c Ricuardet, near the Market Huufe in (
Gerijivi town —where the bufinrfs of thislniiitu -
tion wi'l be trailed during the continuance o. £
the maliijiun' fever now prevailingin Philadelphia.
HENRY KUHL, AJitlanl Cejbiar. (h ~
September 21 detei
Bank of Pennsylvania. whei
THE Bank nf Pennsylvania is removtd toGer- I
Tjiantown,—where the Vufi?ef« will he tranfailed cqua
to-morrcw, in the Union School House. cons
JONATHAN SMITH, Calhicr. tern
September 4 » mad
Wanted to purchase. thc "
APPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which Jr ? c
ca(h will he gi .en at the rate of thirty fe- willj
ven cents per Guilder* Apply to thc Lalhier or _ r j C(
the Bank of the United States. so t ,
September 2ld • -08. crec ]
for Sale.
THE Subscriber, intending to decline the (he
DRUG BUSINESS, off«rs For Sale, the (he
whole' Stock of thir<
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &w p U b
The {hop is elegant, commodious, and fulKci- any
ently known for the extensive bufineis cont in the fhjJ
vholefale and retail line ; the Gtuation squal to at t l
any in hcing »» the Cjnncr of Walnut
Second ftrcets. The wimlc, or any part o£ the ; fl t j
Stock, will bs fold, as will best suit the purchaser. pro
Ths terms may be known, by applying to j
JAMES MOORE, JON. I )(h
Who has For
for the ri*er trade— J
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
ilout, of an easy draught »f water, rigging in
good order. I
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forthelumber.buGnefs. j
gy All persons indebted to the late firm oi j
GtlMtmxit is" Baldwin, IV. B Goldtbwait, Gola
tfruait Moori, or the fubferiber, are earnestly
requeued t* make speedy payment to I
JAMES MOORE, jwn.
august 3 § I
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE fubferiber, encouraged by the advice I
of his friends, offers hit service to f..e pub
lic as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H« pro- |
poses to buy and fell vefiels thing re- |
lifiog thereto—afC|l ijillttra of vessels and others I
1* entering and clearing at the Cullom House, I
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inlui- I
ance ajul all other meroantile accounts, and have |
on hand the necessary Blanks and Stamps. I
Papers in foreign languages translated, and I
information given in general mercantile matters I
—From a knowledge gained by long experience j
of every branch of business lie hopes to be use- j
ful to those who please to favor him wi:h their I
commands. SAAIUEL EMERT. j
Philadelphia ang»ft 14th, 1798. $ 1
City Commillioners' Office,
Aogost 30, 1798. I
IN puifnance of an ordinance of the sele>st and I
Common Councils, passed the tsd day of May j
*"9B, , I
Propofalsin writing will be received by the City I -
Comti.iflioarrs for one month from th* firft of Sep I
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one j
year, to commence the firft day of Januajy next, I
ihe following public property of the city— I
The wharf and landing on Vine ftrcet, I c
Also on SaJTafras, 1 1
Mulbtrry, I 1
And High ftrcets. I t
Chefnulaftd Wilnut streets. Draw bridge, witl I
she Scale and Fifti houses, Spruce, Pinn and Cedar I
firee r s.
Thc Cellar under the City Hall. I
Tfhe Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, I
with tho lots contiguous thereto (except so much I
thereof as fcall be occupied by any buildings erec- I
ted for the ulie of the Collector of the Toils, or be |
necessary for the toll gates.) I
A Hated meeting of the City Commißioner» will I
tc held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning t 1
ten o'clo k, during the prelcnt epifle™<!. eotm
TO BS LET,
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, No
nj High-fireet, lately occupied by Doc
tor YYiftar, with C«Jch koule and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFs,
No 168, Higb-Jirtit.
jvJf 5*
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 29, <798. [VbLVME XIV.
" \ * ' ■ 1. 1 . ■ - m
Public Notict is hereby Given,
rHAT Proposals under fealedcovcrs, will be
reteived on the behalf of 'he United States
until the twentieth day of CMlober next, by Jo- At
natha.i Jackl'ot., Esq. at Boft-n, Maffachulftts, y,
Tench Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva- tic •
nia, and John Swann, Efq at Baltimore, Ma
ryland, for supplying the following articles of TTJ
cloa'hing* for the army of the United States, VY
viz. Z h "'
fOR INFANTRY. a °°
8,448 Hats, of thi
504 Seijeant Coats mill t
504 ditto -Veils cases,
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infalli
1,008 ditto do. linen ditto inverm
1,016 ditto shirts 10-wje
264 Musicians coat 3 ptrftn.
7,680 Privates coates tick at,
7,944 ditto vests an Jib
ij,BBB ditto woollen overal.a is like
15,888 ditto linen d.no andn
31,776 ditto (hirts Te
33,791 pairs of Socks ' e
-33,72a purs -f woes
8,448 Hocks of black l^atnsr
8,448 flock clasps ' ' 3
8,448 blanket,. t C
FOR CAVALRY. attefl
6 MuGcians coals fj, na '
26 Serjeant coats I *'
26 ditto veils y r( j'
104 ditto shirts P;P
348 Privates coats
354 ditto veils j f
X 416 ditto shirts
760 pair of Leather breeches w m
760 pair of ltockings hanc
760 pair of hoots long
380 Stocks of black leather port
380 Stock clafpa the i
l 380 Blankets. . nica
ill. Every article shall be made of materials, n
equally good, and in form, or fafhion, conform- der
r ably to patterns tor the faj»e, sealed with the day.
1 seal of the War-Office, and which will be de- V
posited with the several gentlemen, this
to receive the ptopolils, as above njenti*ed. Mr.
Tdl. Sworn Infpedlots fl.all be appointed on by c
the part of the United States, to examine and '»«<
- determiee upon the fevwal articles aforefaid, -be
when the fasne (ball be ready far delivery, with
-. full power to rejeil every article* which/hall not
d equal, in gooilnef* of materials, er to be made
conformably to, the falhioß of the standard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowance shall be
made, for any article whish (hill be reje«£led by
them, for the causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals muftfpecifv the number of
articles, and their kinds, which the party is
willing to furnift, together with, the lowest
prices for immediate payment in money, and al
so the prices, on theloßgeft term, or terms of
_ credit. 01
One third of each, and every of the several tioi
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on a
1C the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
the fifteenth day o£ January, and the remaining
third on the firft day of March next; and the
- public will not be considered as bound to receive
:i- any of the lforefaid articles ofcloathing, which
be (h-all not be ready for infpe&ion, and delivery,
t0 at the periods agreed uppn. ■ _ (
4th. The [ loathing aforeflid will be received
10 I iBTBe irrerai Ifates, at rtie me
*• proportions following, vi*. One third part of Sit
I the whole at Springfield, Maflachuletts, one
j other third at Philadelphia, ftateof Pennfylva- bo
{ nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jersey, and fpi
I on» third at Baltimore, Maryland. clc
Ik. ] ;th. No contrail will be made, for a less to
' | pnniber of each of the aforefaid articles of in;
— , c loathing, than is rctjuifite for a company, vii_ ne
FOR THE CAVALRY. S
j 4 Serjeant Coat* so
b |V j 4 ditto veils oi
I 16 ditto fhiri» » I
1 Mulician Coat I
US 1 58 Privato coats hi
ess 1 59 ditto veils in
10l I 236 ditto shirts w
of"-1 <>3 ftosks it
My 1 63 stock clasps tl
116 pair of leather breeches
I 126 pair of stockings
> I 126 pair of boots
6} blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY.
' ce I 70 Hats T
ll ' J ' I 4 Serjeant coats
,ro " I 4 ditto vests
re " 1 8 ditto woollen overalls
lcrs I 8 ditto linen ditto
jlc ' 1 16 ditto shirts
lur-1 2 Musicians coats ..
ave I 64 Private coats
66 ditto vests
a I 132 ditto woolen overalls
tei;s I 134 ditto linen ditto.
:n ? e I 164 ditto Shirts r
u I 280 pair of Socks
' lair | 280 pair of Shoes,
j. 1 70 Stocks, ,
$ I 70 Stock Clasps, (
70 Blankets.
3 • JAMES M'HENSY, 1
j nd Secretary ef W*.
I War Department, ?
21ft Sept. 1798. J
City I ~^^
Sc p I Weft-Indian from Madeira.
one I
Those Gentlemen wha have Wines
j on board the Weft-Indian are informed she is
1 now discharging at South-street Wharf, are fo
-1 licited to hallen down their permits, ths Veiiel
1 being immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
I Who wants te Purchase,
100 Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef
100 ditto Pork
'lkill. J 7of 800 ditto fine Flour
njuch I 4or 5000 bushels Indian Corn,
erec- I LANDING
or bc I From the IVtst-Imian,
... A choice parcel of Pbrlf's old particular
" J'. Wine in Pipes fit for immediate use.
ofm 'Y
0 ■ Wanted—Afituation in aPub
t ; lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
e N® by » peifon regulafly brought up to the Mer-
Doc- cantile and Insurance hufinefi in London, he has
5 lately been a voyage from hence to the Weil-In
dies a» Super-. argo, can be well recammtnocd,
—Please to enquire at the Printer s
august 1}
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Curt fur that aian/iing and dreadful Vifordcr (
The Yellow Fever, a l
As tveil as any other dangertus pu'r 'J fever, fever and . U
o~ut, and tjber invitrrat: and congested difeafa, by v ~ ' ' ' Tt
the use of tbe I :u!! - evc
POUDRE UNIQUE, dred .. ac ,
WELL known and patented uTltngland,France, 1 CX ",
Poland, ar.datl the capital cities in Europe, j
where tfcc mo 2 aftonilhicg euro have been effect- I j.
Ed on persons judged incurable by all phyficjans. I i
In a Treatise printed in London, on the propeniis j wat( .
of this powder, by T.Seymour, M.D lateCht- 1 | ant j C
mill to his Majesty, there are stated two hundred j eol , ,'j,.
cases, where this, moll valuable remedy has proved 1 , to
infallible, ib all kind of fevers, pUttrify, bltody f.u*, I j J
invermte rbcumalfrns, fiatica, apoplexy, paialvjic, yel~ I p a | e j'„
lowjaundice, ringiuorm, worms if children aid in grvu'm 1 a ](- Q
persons, white,, chronical bead and Jlornacb aches, bepa- I |beds a
tick and nepbretical or f-one cbtlic, tbe iings evil, f-urvy j q1
and tbe moji inveterate and complicated ventieal diftafe. 1* ! si
islikewife the best prepararive for !h« fraall pox 1 b»ildin
andmcafles; ol the greatcll utility lor young as j | ir „ e J
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their I , •
life. Thc efficacy of this powder in uvcral of thie 1 w^t j l a
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and I f (jl| tr£
foit has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr. treeJ
Mahy, who cured several by adnnnifleritn» only i » ;M -] cr
two of the laid powiers, an J loft not a single pa- I w r
tient which he undertook to curs, as proved arid ma ; a j,
attctled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- I w
ginal may be feeu at Andrew Hadfeg's umbrtlU fbop, j fp r i n „,
Ne. 13T, corner of Chef nut and Fuuvib jlreeis, the oil- | , nt; _ a
ly place where these powders are to bn had, with I u
proper iircifl ions for the use of them.—Price two j j,
dollars. I (j ate( j
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thi' remedy be- j borfes
ing so great for so many dangerous dil'orders, any c a £.
person wilhing to be provided with those powders, cc jj f:v
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at j t tw£
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if tor a j r j a
long time, or if ever any other genuine will be im- I ( [ )e
ported, the secret remaining onlf in thc hands of I f Totn
the inventor, in Europe, andoever kiingcommu- j j rom
nicated to, or discovered by auy othsr person. t j )c
, N. Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow- twe '
- der mult be taken th« lecond, or at laaft the third 1 rema j
« day. Ms
We the fubferibers, durirg the late sickness in I
d tiiis city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to I f )luat
Mr. Mahy f»r his medicalblTi(lance, wc do here- .
n by certi'y, that by a certain powdsr, cal.'ed' the 1
J foudrc Unique, we were perfeilly recovered from I yj,
[ the said fatal fickuefs, and from an experience of I g (
the happy cffeAs of the above mofl valuable medi- I
)t cine, coniider it our duty to make the Came known, 1
e for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, | t-r -
Mylus O'Connor, I \/y
* JelTt Turner, I ffi
y Chriflen Rebecca Dow, I mi £ c
Catherin Apple, I thcir
. Ann Grover, me nl
is William Bills, | jj,
ft David Williams, carpenter, j w j, o
1- William T Donaldfon, mast-maker. I u
jf Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of I
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc- 1 jj 0
al tion, No. 131, Chcfnut street. w ;|j
,n august 8 2awtf are t
!g ANOTHER S7RONG PROOF
3e Of the great and unparalleled efficay of I
Dr. CHURCH'* COUGH DROPS,
y, Ir the Cure of J a«
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas C3 1 Consumptions.
td New-Tort, July 10, '798.
tie — ~ "ToTnc. Chwkok, _ • r T'
of Sir, 1
ne For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la f ma
ra- bored under a severe Cough, shortness of breath and
nd spitting of matter from my lungs and often of furt
clotted olood, till at length I was so seduced as a:
ess to be unable to walk across my room, and ow
mf ing to- the vi ltnce of my cough and the (hort- rO
ix ntfs of breath could get no reft day or night.—
Hearing of yourtxcellent medicine,,the Cough j
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as 2
soon as I got it, fruui which I found inftantane- I
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days, ,
I bless God lam reflored to perfedlhealth. As j
I beliete you to have been the inllrument in the ]
hands of Providence, of laving my life, I mud
intreat you to publish th 16 for the benefit of any <
who may he in my situation, as lam confident ]
it is one of the best medicines in the world for
those complaints.
/ am, Sir, yow grateful servant' .
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street. .
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Arc prepared and fold by tbelnventor and sole 11
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Dilpsnlafy, j
Walhington-ftraet, New-York, and at his of- I
sice, No 1, South Third-street, Philadelphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 118
Williaßi-ftreet, and Stilwell Deforell, 162
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancias, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
son, Wilmington, &si. &c. r
0 B S E R r E,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been induftrioully circulated through some I
of the principal cities in the United States, per- |
sons are requested to purchase them of such per- I
sons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, k'oughkeepfie — A
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New
caftle—Heinitfh, Lancalter—Blauvelt, Brunf
t, wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
: * P.tients letters (Post paid) addressed to |
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
august 20 2aw3w j _
t i Public Notice is Hereby Given,
"PURSUANT to the aft of Congress, passed
Y on the I2ih day of June r798, entitled, I r
in^ s "an aa refpeAing Loan Office and final fettle
llle '' ment certificates,"indent-: »f interest, and the
re so " unfunded or registered debt credited in the £
' e^e ' books of the Treasury."
bt. ,ft That on the application of the creditors 0
refpeihively, or their legal attornies at any time
F after the last day of December it, the present
year, the prir.ci, al sums of the unfunded or re
gistered debt of the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or c - .nmiffioners of 1
Loans will be reimbursed at the treasury of the .
United States.
»d. That interest upon the unfunded or r«- »
icu,ar "iftered debts aforefaid will cease from and as- t
ter thc last day of December in the present year. 1
,ot id. That the creditors refpeaively will be ]
entitled cm requisition to receive from the pro-
Pub- per officers of the treasury, cettificates t,f fund
ed three per oent ttock, equal to the arrearages
Mer! of Interest due oa the debts aforefaid prior to
he has the firft day of January, one thonland fevoo hun- I
eft-ln- (lred and ninety one.
•«rtcd By order of tbe B»ard of ComMffvXlrs
' ' of tbe Sinking I tmd,
Edward Jones, see'ry. I
FOR SALE,'
S A L I S BUR r.
A LARGE and well improved farm, contain
upwards of hundred acres of le- To t
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to grats, The
j and every kind of grain; there are now or« illiar
I dred acres oi Timothy meadow on it, perhaps not Amiabl
I excsilcd, from which, 1 have cut this year between q*iefted
J one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tons of fible, t
I hay; upwards of three hundred aci'es raor« of this ordtr tl
I land may be converted into meadow, equal to that anc j rca
I already ir.ade, the greater pait of which may be jj ca
I water<xl at a fma!l exptnee. There are on this u
I land, a commodious two (lory dwell ing- house, convCn
I completely finifhed, with ten rooms UKI a paffagc,
I eight of thc rooms have fire places; a portico,in 0C( i:^ 01
I front, fifty icet in length, and eight wide; a large P
I paled garden, a well of tJtcellent water in the yard* 10
j also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with
j lheds fides and ends, fufficicnt to hold sixty t
j heap of black cattle, a well conilruded stable, fut
j ficicnt to hold twenty horses ; with every other anc ,
j building that may be convenient or ufeful for a tnake t
I larj*e family; upwards of three hundred apple trees bonds f
j (juib beginning to bear) ot diofen graited fruit,
: with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and daiue- j
I foil trees, upwards ot two thouUni bearing peach j
' trees. About one lomrth of th« land is cleared, a*d
j good fence ; pafture lands are well taken,! AI4D pc
J 1 with red clever other valuable g.afs. Ihe re
j maiuder is in woods and generally well timbered.
" | The whole is well watered, having several conflant
' I springs; and two ilreams running through ditfer- ON
j ent parts thereof, on one of them ia a fmallcoun- French
1 I tr T mili 9 and a saw mill. The purcjiafer can atternp
0 j have immediati pofTeflion, and auy be accoramo- States,
I dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with in Con
I horses, black cattle, sheep, hogs, an 4 every necef- sent ye
y J fary farming uteafil. ialiibury is in ex- j tativ*»
' V J cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy, I
c j twenty-fix miles by miafurement troin Alocan- j
a I dria, about twenty mikt* from Potomack bridge st 1
" the Little Falls, and not snore than twenty-five _
) I fro« the city of Wafnington, and on the post road
j irom Alexandria to Winchester. A small part ol
I the purchase money, will be required in band; owe, \
* I two, and three years credit will be given for the
d remainder. ; ...
1 Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give
° I any gentlemen who apply tOhim ah account q1 the
° I situation of thi* pUea. Forfiicther particulars ap- g| tt j n
"" I ply to the fubferiber on the prcmifes.
SAMUEL LOVE.
" I Virginia, Fairfax county -p\ 1
"! I September 24, 1708. law* IJ
ADVERTISEMENr. I priva'
I otatoi
I _ , inche
"tTTKEREAS James Cummino Us Co. late ol bonj
W the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have tQ th
I assigned ov»r all their effeAs, real, personal and re p l( ] t
I mixed, to the lubferibers, lor the benefit of all w ;[[,
j their creditors, who fltall fubferioe tbe fald afiign p r(^K
1 ment within fix months from the date hereof. ,
| NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all persons J hc :
I who are indebted to the said estate, that they are
1 required to make immediate payment of their ret»-
°' j peclive accounts, to the A Gignees, at their office,
;c " No. 62, Dock, street, in failure whereof aAiont
will inflituted for the recovery of such debts as -w-v
I are not discharged accordingly. U
John Travis, ~j
John IVaddmgton, I Assignees
James Taylor, I
I Cornelius Comegys J on
| a*gust 18 rawftlD ton
—— talo
TO BE SOLD, v
THE tißVe ofmloTiented D«teh Servant BOY Mr 1
Who has ten-years to serve. He has had thc Rsv
la small pox and mealies, is ailive, hearty and strong, o(ft
ith and fit for house work in town or country. For
of further information, enquire of the printed.
, as august 4 . *
;«* FoTSaie,at the Stores of the Sub- B
. fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, a .j r
l gh 195 caflts of nails afiorted Bwc
as 20 bales of fail canvass, from No. Ito 8 VI(J
ne- I 53 casks yellow ochre Oyi
iys, 1 tierces bottled porter* 6to 14 002 each
As London particular ) Mtd< . ira Wines B«<
l " e India market ) All
,lift Tenenffedo. in hogfheadsand pip in t
any Old Port do. in hhiie. and
ent Empty CUret bottles and
f° r I 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta see. ftal
aflbrted for the Weft-India market the
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage roi
Wrtting fiates, ii.k (lands and presses oth
t. to puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine J:
sole 160 bundles fceatiang paper J
ary, Nicklin tf Griffith.
of- aprily
>hia t * —— :
Bengal Goods, J wa
CONJISTIMtI or 1"
ivn'. BANOANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, thi
Qhintz Coffas I Mal-.«ra2gHDgy
Chintl Guzzi*as; Tookereys
>• Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
■ c Long Drawers I ..., >
° me Coarse Sugars in bags,/fit for the European markets 1
P er " I ALSO, *
P| r " I Carolina I»digo J
1 ' or I Coffee ill hog(heads w
fie— A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
Jew- rr WISIF. ""
runs- I For Sale, on teafonable terms, by
John Cltoig,
ed to | No. 12, Dock-ltreet. - - 1
july 14 mwstf y<
|W ■ __
NOTICE.
ren ' Bank of North America, 1
>afled August 28th, 1798.
'tied, I r-yiHoSK Persons who hiVe Notes 01 Bills to pay
"ettle- J[ at this Bank are informed,
1 the That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
1 thc caver direAed to the refpeSive payer and lodged
: n the Poll-Office every Monday until tht return
Jitors 0 f the citizens.
1 time 1 RICHARD WELLS, Caft.te ••
•efent aßg . _
:°d r on SOUTHWARK.
ers of 03ober8, 1798.
> f thc -PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
jT GIVEN, Tbat the CommifGoners of c
"d »£ the DiftriA of Sou'itwark have removed
t year, their Hall to the usual place, commonly
ill be known by the name of Janes Litle's School,
e pro- House, in consequence of the rapid decide
fund ' of the Epidemic Fever, especially i» the
vicinity thereof.
.T Biorder of t])c Board of Cemmtjponer
ohUD "! Wtn. LINNARD, Prefiwnt.
rj | Attest,
tmd, ; Willi AM Psnrqi*. Clerk, frt frm,
'ry. Oa .kr 9
■ —p
CUSTOM HOUSE,
Cbejlcr, »3</ 0^»
NOTICE
To the MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
, The owners and coiifiguees of goods by the
- William Pfnn, Philadelphia, Jane, KingHon,
t Amiable ami other vefieN lately arrived, are re
-1 q'tefled to forward to this Office as soon as po&
f fible, their refpedlivc entries and invoices, in
s order that permits for landing may be prepared,
1 and ready to band them, so soon as the retum
e ing health of the City will admit the vcflelj t<>
* go up. A due attention to this notice may be •(
' convenience to the merchants, who probably
' will He desirous to receive their goods very ex
e peditioufly. GEO. LATIMER,
■ lot ColltSor.
' THE Owners of Goods on board
1 the (hip William Pcnn, arc informed that tb«
Colkikor of the Customs will receive such invoice*
r and entries as may be forwarded to him, and will
* make, the necelfai) calculations and prepare the
8 bonds so tJat permits may be granted immediately
J" on the arrival Of the ship at Philadelphia.
Oilohcr ty § xw
A This Day is Pui)lilhed,
ll » AND FOR SALE SY J.FENNO, I if],CH£SNUT-|J **IT
AN ADDRESS
,i To the People of 'Maryland,
r- ON the origin, progrtds and prefest flat* of
n- French aggreilion. with a (ketch of the infamous
in attempts to degrade the Government of the United
o- States, and some refle&ions on the lite proceedings
th | in Congress; written the lali of April in the pre
j sent year, by u Member of the Hokl'c of Reprclcu
x-; tatives. J June It
y,
" t j Pennsylvania Hol'pital,
v C 9rno. i, 1798.
Jil AT® P"' r^0B w ' tb an infectious dif-ife, can be
0 j I IN admitted into this hovife; it is therefore ear
u I ueftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
jjj I or t ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
I with the prevailing fever. Several persons having
[ vc I been foot here improperly, is the reason of giving
l ie I this caution.
'P- SugManage",} FRANC ' S HIGGINS
I Ten Dollars Reward.
I T~\ESERTED from the Guard House in New
J Vj Cattle, this morning, Stephen Bowokn, 1
I private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
I Staus. He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
I inches high, fair complexion, light hair, blue eyes,
0 I born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prior
ive 1 to the jtb of June, the date of his enliltmcnt, fc»
ln . < . j resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
I will endeavour to go. Any pcrfon who will ap-
£ n I prehend the said deserter, and feeure him in any
I jail within the United States, ihall be entitled to
ons I the above reward.
I F. WHAITON, Capt. Marines.
I New Cafll-.0f1.5.
[ice, 1
ion ten dollars reward.
sas T-VE.SERTED from my Detachment at Borden
-1 1 3 town this day, a Marine, by name Gtorgf
I Mm, a Native of Ireland about 25 years of ago
J five feet eight or nine inches high, dark con-plec
eeß I tion,black hair tied; black eyes well mads and
1 quarrelsome, when ia liquor it food of singing—had
j on a blue fcaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
® 1 ton Stocklags, round Hat, end had under his Pao
~~ I talooiTk a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
j Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
lOY I ur to the Marine Camp, ihall receive die above
1 the I Reward.
ong, - - . HENRY A. WILLIAMS,
For Ofiober Lt. Marine*
\ PROCLAMATION.
I T)Y virtue of a precept Irom John D. Con,
LID- 1) Esquire, president of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks; and Henry Wynkoo* and Francis
Murray, judges of the fame court—A court of
, > Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
! will be held at Newtown, in the said county of
| Bucks, on Monday the jth day of November next.
All those who will prosecute agamft the prisoners
in the goal of said county, are required to be then
and there to prosecute ajjainft them as Ihall be just
I end all the justices of the peace, coroners and con
-3 &c. | (tables, within the said county, are required to be
then and there, in their proper persons, with their
rdage rolls, records, inquisitions and examinations and
j other their remembrances, to do those things which
to their oSices belong, in that behalf to be
done, «cc. DANIEL THOMAS, flieriff.
Oil. 4, 1798. Jtaw
h. FLOUR FOR SALE
I By the Subfcribert,
j Deliverable at any of tho ports on the Dela*
j ware—who have also on band at their (lores, a
| quantity of Barlron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
I the poll will be attended to.
Levi HoHingswerth & Son.
augufl *B. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
arkets SADLER fcf HARNESS MAKER.
I TT AS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
JljL and Twelfth-ftreets, on the Commons,
.. . where he will receive and execute the orders of
adeiraj tl f r | c^a and wholesale cuftoraers, with usual
j attention & expedition during the prevalence of
I the present Epidemic, where it has not made it*
reet l a PP e!lrance th " f "f on » nor daring any of th«
wltf 1 r"" ! ■' .
I aueuft ait
Y ~ FOR SALEi
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
98. L Benjamin Monttith Matter, from Lagaira,
to pay | coNsisriN-c or
I 945 Fenegas of Cocoa
sealed I 4 00 ® °f F' Brl 'ndtgo
lodged I HO Bales Of Cotton
return 4 Packagesof Goa, Ski;» .
Sy IVtilings CJ Francis,
ffil-, I No. Eleveath flreot.
dt) I july i'-
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
lEBY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of of the aewelt and awft approved patterns,entitled
I to the drawback, just received,
rmoved I AH> roa , By
imonly I Altx.J. Miller & C*.
School. 1 No. 64, Synth Front street.
decline I may 18.
i» the ~ * FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
i ent no. 8, CH*SNOY ITIIIT,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Ol high proof and fine favour
ft juty *9SAMUEI. PARKER,
BR4SS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. i * 7, Mulberry street,
OObTl I.N'UES to carry on the bra/,/aunJen
bufire/s as afual, w here his former ctfto
nirrs and th public may be supplied with cast. |
fur machines to any pattern, rudder braces, 1
*>< -ti, Ire for (hipi. ,
I' be proper to. add, that, a» it has been '
rfperted he l,a derlined the buTinefj, S. P. takes 1
■ t'ii« means sf infVirming the publie that he i« <
n>aki/ig arrangements to carry it on still more !
extenflvely, hoping thereby to comply prompt- |
ly witn such orders as he may have to execute. :
, 0" Reils, of i»ny fiae, cafl for churches and ;
oth.'r inftitui;ons j printers rules, itc.
Oftoher 16 eo t . 1
1 Whereas the certificate of two q
lhares of the Bank ps the United States in the ]
name 01 Samuel Amorj, of London, banker, t
No, 3ißi,ilTued h) lieu of 11(93, " c 94> were t
forwarded from London by-'the* British packet
Countef , ol Leicester, rapt. Dodd, bound for
New York, which packet was captured by the c
French, aun the said certificate loft j itd for the *
renewal of vb.ich, application is made at said g
Banle, and all perfsns concerned are desired to tl
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE. „
i a 6, eo6w
Notice is hereby given, r <
THAT application will be made to the treasury ai
of thf United states for the renewal of the follow- r
i»g certuitates of fix per cents, funded debts, ftaod- ,
ip the naai2 of *Jane Gabrieiie RigauJ t of Geneva,
which were loft from on boar 4 the Swallow Pock- th
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth toNcw-Yoik. th
Dollt.
W'°.3r9s'R £ t;-ofEce 19thMay '95, icert. for 1000
13,181. do. 14th di>. do. 1 do. for 3500
Willings 5s 5 Francis. t ."
_Odober J4. eod6w. th
Notice is hereby fa
THAT application will be made to the Treafn- r ■
ry of the United States, for thc renewal of the
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
Stock, ttanding in the name of jtb„ partuM, of te(
I.endon, the faiii Certificates having i-een loft on th<
boar.i the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from f„.
Falmouth to New-York.
ho. 3072 1 Cert, /or 2000 dolls.-)
2964 I do. 5000 i
10,577 1 do, 3000 J ' •
Willings & Francis. ! *°
PhUaddlphil, august 30. eo6w
/; REMOVAL ™
THE office »f th< ; ccrs:ary »( the Cbspmiffion
cr i .cr carrying into the. twenty-firft f
article of the treaty <»f r.-i-*nd(hip, limits and navi- ' ali '
gatiou, between His rtholie MajeUy and t'le U
nit 'i Statrs of America, is, for the present, remnv- Aid
ed l'rcr.'. Mo 54, l'outh Second ilrect, to a large i n ; c ..
two ftoiry brick hou'e on the right hand, e ®ing
un the Germantowuroad, ufu:iUy catled Matters' 8
house. Irifl
"l'hofe concerned are informed that, notwiti- 1
Handing the p. valence of the fever in Philadelphia, m if<
daily attendance im* hoen, and will continue to be
given at the said office, until the return of the citi- V .
zeri,; & that on ihu feventeemh dry of November
next, the terna of eigijtoen months will expire Gnce g ua
the aay on which the comm illioncrs affcmbled laws
after wh;cb period 113 complaints or applications weri
can poli'.jly be received by them r
Letter' andloclufures post-paid will beduly at- 3
tended tiby. tM ai
. PETER LOHRA, Secretary, pow
OAobei 18, 1798. § Jot f c h e
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn. j ea( j
Draws tzvicr a iu:ek, every Monday iff Tuesday r ■
!'S For Sale, Seyen Dollars each, at P'"
X WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery man
and Brokers office, No. 64 Scutii Second-Ar<ct, f c ' v «
where cheek books are kept for examination, und not
revering in this, City of Waftingtou No. thro
and Paterfun Lotteiies and information where meat
Tickets may be had in most of theLotteriesau- : n( j u
thorifed by law in any of the States of tbe
Union. ' °P en
State or th« Wmm the g
One prize of 10,000 dollars- 10,000 vindi
I've 4,00® »0,000 by F
J wo s.ooo 4,000 const
• 1.000 9,000 L
Nineteen 500 0,50 c
Forty-four 500 8,800 ClrC "
With a full proportion, of the one hundred P 1 " 0 "'
and of th? fifty dollar prizes—-the price of tick- ' n r
ets will soon rife, particularly on account of the roots
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel zens
Until the laftday of drawing. authr
Note, the business of a Broker duly at u
tended to in all its branches at the above office
ma y »4 w&stf ~c
- with
A French Classical & Mathematical t [ iem
SCHOOL.
WILL be opened on Monday the 13d. instant
at that large commodipus roon formerly J OU
eccupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's Alley, No. 15, from
nearly opposite thij City Tavern; under the direc- sough
tion ot MtfTrs. S nith and Chandler both of libe- But
education, and long experienced in their re<- those
fpeilivc profeffiona—As they intend under, the ..
patronage of a aifcerning public, permanently J- 0 "'"
to eftabliih themselves in this undertaking, their ®t,. or
whole study api attention will be d:voted to the And c
vnprcyemcnt of their pupils.—These willbeeon- of the
duflad upon the latest and most approved plans, con f u j
through a complete course of acajemical fludie»>
or those (. arts only that may be pointed out, as more P c3ce
iinmediately adapted to theirparticularviews in life whose
—Certain portions of their time will be afligned for /riendj
gcographj .history, extraifts, composition, and de- and ir
clamatious iu French and Englilh, in order-to form f r i cn J s
early habits of writing and speaking with propri- r -£ ,
fty —Visits from parents aid literary charaiters,
tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will be reprff(
gratefbily received. The hours of study are from and fei
9to A.M. and from »to 5 P.M. magna
They offer to tranflatethe Englifh,French,Spanifli t rue f
and PortugUese languages;. and to draw in their .'.
proper modes and stile, all kinds of writing, whe- to "
ther legal, commercial, ot epiftoiary. what, r
The firft Monday in November, they also pro- Thc
pose to open an evening school for French, book* you w
keeping, furveyiug and navigation, of which they y
have a pradlical as well as theoretical knowledge. ' . .
As a number of French gentlemen will attend, the or
iludenti of their langnage,'by continually converf- an " git
ing with them, as well as their teachers, will ac- heads—
quire, along with thc principles, a facility of ex- have p
preffiot). t'n
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS : ; nd da "
Meff'rs Chandler ct Smith ont deteftei
Fhonneur de pr.vcnir M.M. Its Frjncois, quilsfc the poi
propofciit d'etablir une Academic en Norris alley, c ;_| e .
15 ; p.efque vis-a-vis la Botirfe ; dans la- r"* j
quelle on enfe gnera lalangue Latine, Angloifc et
Frapcaife : l'Aritbmetique, la tenue dc 6 livrts, la commei
Geographic ft les Mathematiques. lawed I
O 1 fait arifi toutC3 fortes de trajuilions dans les • of her
ditcs lanfuc^: et d»nn'e lecons chez iesparticuUers. dcpstld
Qu'on f'addreffe a l'hotel de Mr. Vallettc au
coin cw 4cmr rue et Cherry alley. nour, v.
October 17. cod tf 88 a
~plTkr blight
HAS rtmoved bis Counting Honf_' to his House ft r w6t
in 'be Northern Liberties scar Nise Town, Gcrr ' !
sjantown road. juguft 11. * Sec
>er. &onifflmticatiottg»
founder, Citizens or the United States,
;r . YO.U are taught many important lef
"r"brae 1 l "°" 8 at e expence of others ; you have
r races, _ eard ; ntr ;g ue , t (, at
has been fcecn 8 1 * I '* forward in Britain and IVeland,
P. takes to level those power*,, and biing them un
at he i« der the French yoke; you have read that the ]
ill more Britirti government fufpe&ed that treafona
prompt- hie pradices were carried on among her sub- ;
' 7 ° U wilt also remember the unceaf- <
ing efforts they made ro discover it ; you '
eo 3t. have frequently, no doubt, heard the parti- «
zans of France in this conntrj, declaim a- «
or two eainft and ridicule the measures which the «
i in the British government pursued to discover <
banker, traitors, and the seditious. It was said, '
'"packet that B overnment gave out tbef? re' «
tind for P made enquiries, thereby to in- '<
Iby the " ease her Power ™d oppress her fubjefts. ..
j for the How ofpen hare you been told, that the <<
: at said good people in Ireland wanted nothing more »
fired to than the preservation of their conftitntional "
privileges ; that they intended no encroach- «'
eo6w me ? t on the P rero gative of the crown j that ««
their opposition confifllcd in petition and
remonftrarice ; that these were the only ar
'follow- ? rmS ° f defence and Proteaion which they yi
s.ftand-
Geneva, efforts with them, they would reft fatisfied, re
v P«ck- that they had dilcharged their duty to tu
xk. themselves, the present, and the rising ce- mi
EM. nerat ; on > - cf|
it 3500 . That they ever looked on their conftitu
neit. t . ,on as the fumrait of their happiness, and th
d6w. facftd tftlwark of their liberty, the most pn
lolemn declarations were made, and heaven C u
rreafu- t0 Wl . tne^s t ' le finceritjr of their p] (
of the *ricid!hip to their country. c [,.
Funded y°o UHder these, and many other pro for
of teftatioas, conceive that the /cret/pint of tor
:oflt o„ the Illunsinati, with perfidious fttides, had ke<
for uven years been uniting talents, ambi- tail
tion, a,fidelity and ferocity, to fusil un- be
[ bounded extent, that ico.ooo were provid
f .ed with arms, pikes, cannon and amuinni
c'u. t10 "' m l ' K * P rovinc<: °f Ulster, so long ago I
)6w
jS3t ie month of April 1797* ; thereby to *
overthrow the coattiturion of the kingdom, I S cn
at the expenee of the lives, liberty a>:d X°. u
y-firft P ro P ei ty of all who dared to defend the p*
navi- [ I -j
tie U- This perfidious band, to render the event I and
spv- | fuccefsfi.l, had laid a chain of direct co.nmu "tJ
elm I nication with the usurpers in France, whose ener
filer,' aid Wdc readily promised to the United |" nil
Irifhmeri. srcr5 rcr
with- This extensive and dark affectation of
Iph-a, miscreants intended to plunge their wea- | is, d
•citi- Po °. S of crUel war into the bowels of I July
"mber their mother country. The lives of the es . an
Gnce guardians of the "nation } the wealth, the I ! P'
hied laws, and the government of the country !eyra
tions were to form one immolutton to the demon m °x
f at- anarchy. They invite the tyrants of dains
t ranee, brethren in inequity, as the only f the j
r j, powers on earth who would promote the I hi* "
ot scheme of carnage and plunder. I*f M
Now, citisens of the United States, con- whic
fider who arc you—have not many Z\'
>Lv r ' g cllaraAcr3 of the now deteded con-
{, i f P lrac y a,T ' ved al «ong you >. Have not corfa
rtery
many emiflaries from France spread them- fions
rfct, felv « »i these United States ? Are there tb 'P>
ind not many suspicious charaClars psffing j rr l jl y
1. s. throughout the union, who have no visible of ."
here means of fubfnlance, either from fortune or
The ,ndultry ' ave you not often heard them I si
open their moiuhs against the measures of „f t h
the government of the United States ; and t h e <
,000 vindicate the fpoilations and insults offered j that
,000 by France ?—You have no doubt read the w k o l
000 constitution of the United Irifhrneni that P eric
To° h . ?-S b , €e " fecret 'y P' inted an(J perfidioufly fetter
800 Gircu^ among you—That Stamina which I f lons
Ired produced the deep coifpiracy and rebellion 0 1J)
ick- ln Ireland, is among you in full vigor ; its I [rents
the roots are fpcad in the affeftions of the citi- „ y
tiesl zens to alienate them from the counsel and cer ne
authority of those worthy men whom they nr :„
T.ce aVe eVCr ound faithful. _ I H
£ "V ou have seen these interlopers aflfrciate I s uc h
with disappointed office-hunters ; you find d om j r
zed t^lem * n the society of those who advocate j inflift
the cause of France, even after, the tributary pro ft;
ant demand hat been made known, who tell What
arly y° u that base injratiiude aloi e prevents you have 1
15, fr° m S mn g Pecuniary aid to France, who tribun
rec. fought your battles and won your freedom. vl ded
Ae. But you knaw that the monarch, whom De il >
th. tho f® butchers beheaded alona, in justice, P hc '
tly sof ou 'o 'equire your help } and did you grant j condei
, eir it,, or even participate in hit sorrows *— w h at
the And do you believe these men the frier.ds cattur
on- 0 f the people of the United States, who l
""fp-red against the lawfol government, contra
ore a " . ' ia PP in efß of their native country, : ron ar
life whose language in Britain and Ireland was thc eo
for frtendjhip to the conjTttut'ion and ancient rights,; j ft;|] c ! a
■m an . ' n this country declare themselves the prov J
; r i- i and at the fame time in- f or w
:rs, ult t j^ eir judgment by the abuse of their the vai
b e representatives 5 who denounce your alien this ful
)m and sedition bills, as the deftru&ion of your I t ; o n a!
iih magna eharta ? Consider, the reverse is voy " ;
sir rlf y .' ur 5 l "zenfhip,were transferred w h. c h 1
le . to aliens, and a leditious spirit encouraged, f o ., nd ,
what remains secure in the magna charta > ~, a n
o- These persons that endeavour to eharm I {Wikes
k- you, what have they done? have they fought ! but at
■I y° u f j 1 . 3 " 188 • dld they bear your hardens, own co
or vindicate your honour, when the black a H voa
f. and gloomy clouds were hanging over your chandi;
c- heads—when those tried men, whom you t ifh do:
, ave placed as guaidians of your conftitu- nai l t of
tion and liberty, put their live*b«tween you ! fVy a f e
and danger ? But these men Aould ever be 0 f VOUI
It detefttd by you. They who speak evil of robben
fc thc powers that be, who are infidel in prin y et
L' !e ' and Amoral in pradtice, sapping the pr ctend
■t lousdat 'onsot that confidence»which renders win re
b commerce secure, and f.ciety happy-out- gnvanCl
lawed i y their native country, aiid objeds are vet
:s °/ her v engeance/ oa whom you can never o bj e a
5 u depend with fafety, or associate with ho- i s J Bo t',
nour, whose you ought to dread ,j
as a burning volcano. If you listen, they ; t ; s Ic
will lead you, step by step, until unawares, der of v
you are brought to the brink of irretrievable w h o l c t
r dtftraa.on Let the fate, the deftruaion fair**
* S«c the report ot the fecrei tutamitttc. dfjiaaii
* (J u
_ °. f ali 'lie republics, wfco in Europe liHensJ, i '
5* f'"S ' ou d iu you* ears I Cou4d you loaic
into the hearts of the milled, what remorft!
yvu may fee it in their countenance, and hear
it in their dying groans. '
ant lei- Awdke ! ere it is too late , (hake off that
>u iave connexion whit;h watches only for your
)r years ruin—cherilh not that serpent which will
Ireland, sting you—avoid those harpies which af
lem un- f ume , ver)r f orm> that t]ley ma acqijire
hat the strength to destroy you.
•eafona- How often do we hear them' address
lertub- adopted citizens thus: " Will you fee this
unceal- « country seek your ruin ? this alien bill
; you « w ;n lanijh you an j y our f am ;|y. y OUr *
parti < trade mtift be wound up; your ancient
! a ' m " enemies the British, have gained ground
ich the « in our councils, and your ruin hafteneth.
ilcov?r <■ A stamp law may be endured in a full
s laid,' •• grown country, like Europe; but here,
re- in an infant (late of society, it is a yuke
to in- « which cannot be borne. The boalled pal- ]
i jeas. •< ladium, the liberty of the press, in this I '
.at the « country, is at an end : a (edition bill 1
r more « fhackle3 our hands, and farewell freedom j
littoral « an d liberty. This country is ruined 1 1
roach- « anc l we dare not f caJ . ; wr ; t£ , ;[i Qr
; that «♦ publilh it." |
ill and These are a specimen of the innumerable I
on y arts vvnieh are used to alienate your minds -*
1 they your constitution at,d government. ;
. their These men want a change (they fay) in y
le , reprelentation j but a change in the confti- if
ty to tution, is what they seek. You may re- E
g ge- member what tales of woe were printed and l
circulated among sou, about Mu ; r, Palmer, w
lftitu- uerald, Napper Tandy, H. Rowan. See. E
i, and their cause was represented as claiming your A
: molt proteaion : they were reported as 'perfe
eaven cuted, for supporting the rights of the peo
their pie. But where have some of those leading
charaaer* gone with their petitions for re. *
rpro form, but to the bloody, venal, infidel direc- r . ,
7/ of lory in France.—God forbid, that the t
had keeping of the rights of the people in Bri- - r
tmbi- tain, Ireland, or America, fliould ever Tj
i un- be deposited in, their hellilh vaults. |j
ov,d " OBSERVATOR. A '
nam- I &
ago I Citixcnt of Ameriea 1 I cafe,
yto "ALTHOUGH the avarice of the French re- to
iom, ! S tfi,s wptihl p.llajeyour commerce jind rifile llt w
treif " r y» 'heir ambition would robe you of well
the B T Th:s is a f " mmar y of 'he Lou
r ~, pohcy refpeamg the United States. rp _ t
I the T 'rand engines of this policy are, terror I
vent I ard deception, hi publifbing what he styled l e!i pe
irnu- " the resolution of a'government terrible to its e " d 1
hose I enemie.',-" Adet announced the fvftem of ntti- I defer
itedl"" 11 ' crror ' ,f »- Shice that had failed, the But]
I . r J f nc ' l regent"' tenacious of their original uro- | oentl
of Je T- h t? Varifd th ei r measure. for'the fame thou
lend. The engine no* employed against you '
C r I"' deception. For thi. purpose, on the „dos dem3
of July, that purveyor ofbril.es Talleyrand address- Com f
the «s another letter to Mr. Gerry. If Adet's letter bccn
the I dil'played the ferocity of the tiger, this of Tal- this c
itry ' eyra " d displays the mifchievoufnefs of the I cirdu
1 1 monkey. I
non 1 The versatile courtier, with a front that dif- l'°Tf
, [ d , 3 '". s a W'tfhcorfies forth to eulogize ano«entity, f T,
n'y the justice of the French regency. He fays, that 00
the his" govtrn merit had anticipated the wiflies" j ac< l us
I of Mr Ger.-y "as to the preliminary meafu. es } of 'a ll
on- w!lich hel,ad <Wfkl." What thofe .neafure. land I
any T'* " la > F , l ' e , lejrnt h/ recurring to Mr. Ger- | Finch
V ry . valuable letter of the ?o th of July. He Ith re
of the outrages of the French | brifkl
not corsairs, and proposes •« a recall of the Lommif- , r
rm- fion. of the privateers and reftrainte% thtm to
ere the proper übjn ls «/ capture?' Tallevramt-U. J r | h p I
,n S I r; \V , '! r "®""»
ble of are about to be redr. ffed" by the " orders I them
or to . tft r e lflands " Let us examine this 1 hiVlivs
| amrmation, before we credit it! 11l
C os ,^ e o d r e , eof the Executive Direaory, L" r ; v
i 1 the-Bth of August, undoubtedly contains I hia» in
'" d the « orders" to which he alluded. Read £
the u'i> W Wlth attent, '° n ! W hat is its f andn .
he whol. amount ? It annuls, after a certain L yen
■ period, the old commissions for privateers or {tU. .
y I letters of marque—.directs the new commif- f varc i.
h fioj,, (which may be given out inflcad of the chaise
on old) to be .ffued only by the particular a- J ceiv ';
, H gents of the Direaory. f,ich, for instance, L d
nd 35 f° r HugbSß forbids those con- L as '
J cerned m privateering to be judges of the , of \u
c y J prizes. ffid
Has then the infemous praaice of making f ' ,
'te such men judges, prevailed in the French £f" d
dominions? And what puniflimeht is to be u
infliaetl ct, those men for their nefarious Qo w
ry proftitut.on of the judicial charafler? None! T cb U
e What compensation is made to those who [bev c S
0, u ;° T bbed by lhe r ' UU " ces of f "ch was Di'
>° tribunals ? None I What facilities are pro- Tt P
" v,d^ d f or correfting those sentences by ap '
» -.!( N«! Wh„ alteration i, ?„
' 'he principles of the decrees for fazing and "
I condemning your property ? None lln fine, | fen . "
- what reftniftion is there as to the " oijeSs nf\ r>!
ls capture ?" None I J \ ° n '
.° I tbe decree repealed which condems as | "np-aj- .
' contraband every thing (except un wrought [Eh
. iron and fir plank) which serves tndireclly for
a » e ?^P ment ?Do not the French JA J
>[ ft ill c.aim- to condemn your vcffels (although t i l( . r'
< proved and acknowledged to be American) [ ward s '
I for want of a role (f equipage ? and do not I c har<rec
r I the various regulations and conftruaitms on I f t /p r
" this fubjea.expofe to inevitable condemna- I and'hac
r tion almolt every vessel employed in distant j tiff aho.
* voyaging ? Further, the attrocious decree attende.
j which dooms to deatheveryAmerican seaman I Chrillm
' . sou "d Irving on board an enemy's (hip, is left | teen „ u
hi all its force as is also the decree which ffan jL
strikes not only at your foreign commerce [• u„ e
but at your trade from port to port on yotir nol
» own coasts. Such is that which confifcates | UU roofe
: a |l your vessels having on board any mer whh 3 f
chandize coming from any part of the Bri- him nm
tifh dominions. If under this decree a few >vas „ c c
■ noils or iron hoops on your calks are fuffi'cient , xt n&e
1 for a sentence of condemnation, what part I tiff fir
P commerce is secure from legalized | present
Yet 1 alleyrand ha* the impudence to j for
: pretend that the orders above referred to, m' x
I will redress your « grievance.,'' if your |q Ucnt 'f B
■ gnvances were not the very decrees which melanch
■ are yet continued in force against you. Ihe i f
objea, then, of the French, in those orders, I naidTo"
is, not to do you justice but to delude you s um of '
with the insidious appearance of moderation ; J M-arns
it is, to exclude fareignsrs from the plun-i t rd
der of your commerce and appropriate the r_ J
whole to themselves. 'Thus they I
their otvn avarice, and infuhthe American u , I tv° not
iElenuJ, |
moSs- Sr - JOHNHONEriVOO.
nd hear ' Of WaAiington county,
Author of the excel!, nt Pofm on Prcfidenc \
off that ton'a ktfignatton,
r your I at the age of 36, of »n h?i
:h will fr " ut ' < " !ncrre 'y lamented by his worth v
•V r in<) numerous friends, and univerf;
C 1 mired liy all-who trad the privilege
icquire neffing his fupjerior tajents : He died
believer in cliriftianity—thereby ati^n
iddrefs -the catalogue of genius that have sub
?e this to ' :s 'ruth,
ten lill '
; vour" " ?" cb . qveY ' the nitei °" r macb Uv'dpoet
ncient " ' dfdib d bis tuneful to
'round ...} rnourn ' a ' n,u f- bis monument (hill
Uwh e ? °* l has charm'd us with his nwic lay;
fll n'; £ u " dc ' d ~ rhc '"'blcfs dirt
a full Of Death, feli tyrant! his traoSfi*-d a hear
here, wa^fc r cold world Wit, genius
V«kc tIC F? wcra » ? nd ""rfy
j'i thine, O Honevwood ! All could not
<1 pal- His matehlpls mriit from th' untimely grave
„ this' Hi. writfullirt U mute, hit harp unftruor,
n bill 'hi.aeferted manfton hung - "
•edom J j humbler facial virtues ai: were hi.,
• J , El-dean,tg cement, of domellie b ifs—
ined . Fiaii form ! with energy of foul combin'd,
ll > or pr mbiKi y. and a Hope in mind.
Oft n. a careless mood he ttrsck the lyre
•rab'e I w , ho h«en\l to admir
f Bus pubhfliM nought till Washington refien'
muds And imde a fubjetl worthy of his mind.
Who ha. not read our i'am'd Deliverer'! p ra!
vl l'n uri?" "oneywood's recording lays ? '
n- Who can peruse * line, without being fiIJM
onltl- With trembiirVguairfporJ, th j rJp f< , |lfcs [)u .
y re- E ' e " Walhmgtor appears b-ave, more sage,
land inthc Juft nnuorofhi.faithlulpage.
Im-r Nations 'K»bom Ihili crown our vir uous bar
1 W lib endicfe glory, as a rich reward;
See. E'en prattling intact. iearn to lisp his praise
your A ,ound great George', laurel, twine his b
peo- COURT OF KING'S BENCH
ding
G O UGH V. COFFIIf.
jfec- , M, ';. Pea i" from 'he pleadi
the °" W3S brou g ht b 7 the plai
to recover damages for an injury he hac
ever uT.tr / , bu " ft wh, ' ch the defen,
had discharged from a piltol. The de
I dant pleaded, that he was not guilty.'
Mr. Garrow this was a very' f er
cafe, which hc,repr»ftnting the plaintiff,
i re- t0 fubrntt to the consideration of the j'i
rifite It wan of great itrtporiance to his clien
uof well as to the public. He had receiv
the wounfffrom the defendant, which had
rror rfady pUt h?TO 3 S reat deal of misery
yled I ex P erlce '. ancJ Which would continue till
i its end of h,s da y s - He did not impute to
ati-' defendant that 'he meant to do a bad thi
the I But he supposed that Mr Colin, who w
pro- J gentleman of large fortune, should h
'me thought that the plaintiff had a pretty la
J°of demal)d on his jutiice by way of -jjecuni
cfs- compensation, The plaintiff, however, I
iter I b e f n obliged to have recourse tb a jury
-jl. this country to fay how much, under all
the cirdumftances of this cafe, he was entit
I ro recover against this gentleman.
f,v f Thoraas D ' ckf °n. the fir|t witness, cal
hat ° n tl! e-part of the plaintiff, said, he was
;3 „ I acquaintance of the plaintiff. On the i
res f°f la t November they were riding togeth
re. land flopped at the figi of ihe Star
er- | Finchly common. After tbey had'bt
k ' h - re . some ,1 " lf » perceived an an rid.
br,fk 'y on a small crop bay mare. A p
/o cha.fr came up very quick following him
ut i
ed ihe defendant and the post bov afl<
ers them in a great hurry if they had seen
hts highwayman pass. They toM him th
had. They also told the defendant th
y« 1 were well mounted, and would be up wi
" S and assist him to apprehe,
} him. They usftantly mounted their horft
•„ and "ever loft fight of the chaise. It w
or f/ cr { b » g htmo 0n light night, and aft
PJ- they had passed the chaise about thir
- yards, he heartl a report of a pistol from tl
| chaise. He thought the gentleman co
?- ceivmg bttnfelf out of danger had difchar
>l ed it. But the plaintiff called out that 1
: w and that hi, breeches was fu
w The ball struck him on th. o
tilde. He called cut to the boy that tl
g gentleman had Ihot his friend. He told t*
• defendant that no man in his senses coul
= have mistaken the highwayman for his frien
■' 17? m ° Unted 0,1 a S re Y horse, where,
•• the highwayman was on a bay horse. Whe
cheyometo Highgate, medical affiftanc
" procured, after which he vvas.b.ourrh
' Landon to one Bell inn, in the ftra ,o
which the w:tnefs said he kept. The plain
" tiff had never been will since. The woun;
was not healed. The dtfendant at fir I
'l sent a surgeon la attend him.
7 On cross examination, he said, when h
I. came up with the post chaise, they did no
I [peak to the defendant; they did not 1.1
J- him they were come ta assist him to tak- th,
highwayman, but immediately ga!! :)pper
[ pall it, and continued their pace for abou
I the space of thirty yards in their way to
I wards London, when the defendant dif
; charged his p.dol. The plaintiff is a ta.mer
I ? , f« e no , cr a,d > 116 was a surgeon.
• and had called in to attend the plaitr
I tiff about the beginning of November. He
- attended him every day from that time till
iChnftmas for which he had received four
teen guineas from the defendant. It was a
1 | gun.shot wound, and very deep. He h->d
■ Tuot been able to extract the ball, and it was
not extraaed now. He had used for that
t>urpofe a bullet forceps. I c was attended
with a fever for a few weeks. He attended
him novr He was iame. He thought it
extraafd HT, W " if the ba »
extraded. He had a demand on the plain-
I tiff f.r attending him from Chriilmas to the
present t.me- b.ll he thought might
come out. The plawtiff is obliged to pay
I AT" 3,K1 . , in 'own.
Mr. Erfkirie, in the com-fr of a very elo
J quent speech, lamented w.th his client this
melancholy accident, but juftified Mr . Qof
fin from any bia.ne— besides the bill IJk
I paid to Mr. Paternortcr, he had also pai/ a
1 to, lh „ £
~ I //? 3Ut /- Lord under r„le ~j,
Str^ri<*&
w . . | ''°t blame M, Coffin r " Id'
a ,r '°" I wit hour any mifcondua ofE f/dt^
reditary I " " font.) He has afted witl
widow % reat , desl °f humanity R„ t n,, 7
illy ad J e f 1 ? 8 the ground of ciJd a Jr !
of wit Plaintiff has a right to a c'," 1 . and th<
ste."* "• ■
■sun g , f ° r P ,ai ' ntl ' ff . 175l
mgtte.', I mrrm.
I railc, J Br OGRAPHY.
U The a P°My of the bijhop of Autun *nJ ,z
sense, pftinefs of TalUyrand 'hat at
f h i ° bferva . fm an at
,(»r, thnrcpartuula ofthe Rfe and
I of this man -will gratify curiffity, and extend
tnforytvn. Fr »m „
r c Ti lTr 7 London ' ° f a
ikllT 1 ' we derivt the «s ui 4
■d7 character of TALLEYRAND.
I The AbJ}? Perigord de TaJfevraml
ifc, I devant bilhop of Autun in R j
Ij r , , , -rvutun, in Dourirundv is
fa I ° nC ° f th " moJt ''"'iftriom
iu , d: families ,u France, a house coeval with mo
rchv and related, by the female
tint of Bourbon. A difafFedtcd priefl j„
» pam P h! ct a,amft innrwad n ' en
devoured to i,j„ rc , Ile b;/hnp) by
LZe/krl^P^
As th* bftbop of Autun was , by hM
and dignity, enabled to much Tu
thorny over the inferior clcr ,v i H ,K V
'"g«. bly, so he was endowed wilt,
'"t'ff talents, knowledge a 1 a *ivi
& h Y"r m Mse te 42K
f " C "'. t,es of e ""™g I"', fupcn'or leanSl
hls .reports and f peecbes H ; s
reports mude in the name of the con ft i ,
S3 ■no nal A- Omm ' tU 'V tbC fubita of P'Jolfc
u y on the ,oth f lit!', 2r ,d I2 P th «rf
it Is £ P 7 ' '? 9l u T Awards pnntel
■ 33 by a decree of the aflTetpblv.
a * , de p 9"gord, id his capacity as a revo
and ' Utlo . nar >' Patriarch, was appointed by the
the IvTn'X m °L PiriS 10 ° fficiatt P<>nt'fical
the f j f P lendld cremony of the national
contederation, held on the 1 <th of Tulv
'afa 'I 90 u 1 ham P dc Mars. He =>ppeir
lave e V rr atl °' f,lan two hundred
ZS 'd tl din Whhe with the w
rgc coloured ribbons. When about to officate
had a f orm " fw,nd f°ok place, followed by ,
of f, e!u^ } ° f / a,n ' Proceeded, he, ever,
the celebration c)f the ma f 5 with •« anj
tied re * a " A°i' 6 and afterwards pre
tied nounctd a bened.ftion on the royal fl a „l arc
lied°fI r re'T e ' ° nthe e ' ilht > r - thrce b an»eri
»^,trr™ ~whKh" "" d
sth i a - the civi, constitution of the clergy,
on ZT v f ! 'I aCC ° rdi,, S 10 the a
een S V °J tUc 0'
• n " bl "V° p3ll, 1 F u ran "' rhoulcf ' the future, be
il e and Other
bishops. Thu regulattoa was a fatal blow
L fi® v <- anJ ;t tbt
of mmd pecuTtar to M. Peri K ord te
an rr] 1 ' 0 "' Hewa,
an b ,<hop who offered to consecrate the Tew
irv K o "' I! ! t o{ VttfiriUeg. This
%^7'^ri fnm r
;nd complained loudly again ft the Wfhop of I u !
» tun, as| an imp.ous wretch, who facril sas
cr ma " W U P°" the intruded candidate i
■tv ,• A ;f: ke M - Pen > rd - -ho had re
y linquifheJ the prejudices of his rank and or
der, could not fail to create enemies. Lam-
P ooß3 > P am ph!eta, &c. flocked againll him
g" from every quarter. The chapter. :nd the
J® secular clergy of Auttu,, exhorted their
M chief to return to the faitk of his forefa
thei s : the canons of aiv>ther diocese V rote
a periodical work, entitled, La Seß e Acs
Id a a e'evgyman, who wa»
d l[?h ,f r poet, . termißat eu one of his ode*
ia with these two lines :
as -T v
:n U r n Gr W°ire a tete idroie,
;e El <-n Autun Antisretiem.
fof Stn Cl " mlgh ) haVe been the result
i, the hatred conccivctf by the highest ranks.
of society aga.nff M de P trifio rd, on ac!
d count of.hnpatriotifm. The truth, how-
f Vtf 'V '■ " ,curr<:d cenfures even
from the patriots. He wa, charged with
e bCln f. af " e "?}° the revolution, only be-
M tot ni'i f a " ,rre K ular life previously
II to it, and had a great many debts to dif
e charge And it was insinuated, that he had
d received immenfc sum. from the court, to.
t exert his authority over his colleagues, to
obtain for the. King the absolute "ctto
<r A m" j°^ ll ' rion of the couftitoent
, assembly, M. de Perigord was sent to En jr.
, land, in the capacity of a fee ret negotiator
. either to avert ate war, or conclude L alii!
: ancc between England and France. f cw
1 months afterwards he wa, compelled to leave
- Engl-d, by the p a fr, tlg ps the alien
I The increofing fyft em of terror in France
i and a report that some documents had W
' I:°'* . C Thuill rfeS ' af ter the xorh oF
g ' rclar 've to the biibes paid bv the
court, 00 account of- the prevented
1 Ar„?,: m,gtoFran^ a «'^cf« &i i^
oard V? 5, T f "°" 33 t,le convention ha<£
pafled a Jaw for recalling to France thofc
etnig-ants who had fled from has er ,£
Jcoid a „d thitd of September, M. de PeT
JbS fir, peut; ; , . ! ' to li,f committee o£
Lurn y ' r^ Uel,r "S their pcrmiffion '
return, and early i,. tUe next * he r( T
turned to France. .
He was appointed a member, artd soon, ~
afterwards, one of the f.crcaries of ,h<w
national .nftitutes in Paris. In one of the
pubhc fitting, of the la ft winter, he pre
t'.ted a memoir, p r ,;*o g -he i.ectffity of a
fzrzrs 1 • t,eat ' r w!th the A!"«icair
lates. The Paws papers stated that tb*
lon T Was the rduU of - his enquiries. '
11a.U f ?° r> dunn 5 ,wo y«r ß refidence fc
I d that lt contun«d a great o»ny mw ofcfervations relating to the futirfe prosperity of
th O^X W !irmifral of C. la Croix, in Jun, __
la(l, Talleyrand was apposed Mini It er for
foreign affairs, a station which he fitled with
difcevnn.eut, zeal, and aftivny. If we are „
t0 give credit to the French JournaL.ft a
very lanchaWf fcen. took place, in the hall
TfThe Diredory, soon after h.s appomtmcnt £
t0 « The Bilhop of Autun, (fays the ]\T ec
naliftl with his bhie national uniform, and vm
V "^fin
th« Envoy of the Pope, a nd the Ambaffa. J
dor of the Grand Signor." ______ j £
d)fs~3Dav's
NEW-YORK, Oftober 26.
It, the year .635. in the infancy of the
Englilh fett'emenU in America, the gene- et (
ral <Ui't of MjfTachufetts ordered that brass at ,
farthings (hotild rot be current, but that
musket balls should pass for farthings.
Winthrifs Journal p- 80. 1
It is recommended to our edverpment 'o iN
pay tribute to France in this old Ivlaffachu'
IcttS COtft* . LrfCtt
When-a printing prrfs was firft eflablifhetl
in fhat colony, the fir ft thing printed was
the Freeman's oath. A little fopsrflition
will fy, the descendants of such aneellors I
trill not bzjlavet ! "
The firft pre Is was set up at Camoricge,
Jn Maflacbofette, i« by one Day, at
the charge of a Mr. Gi f >'-er; this a 1 'lie 1 nine
year in which Harvard college was founded. a?r
The f;cind work printed was an almanack, the
by one Pierce, a mariner—and the third, intr
was the pfal-ms ncwl/turned into njeter.
!t is ter. ;rkab!e iaw Wig the firft settlers in c '"
America proceeded in their civil concerns with- Pa
out Hwvem. In 1687, almost 60 years from ° cn
the firftlettlement, there were hut two attar-
pies in MaißeWetts," The noied Randolph, ana
the Crown Artnt. wrote, a letter, to a .friend in
Vr. Ln.d in !i«u»rr *6*7. in which he has the
foHou in; paffapes, " I havs wrote V l'J> the
want wf have of tvjo or three honelt attornie-,
ifeurJvcb iking ia nature. We have but two ; »"<"
one is Mr. Weft's creature, came with him from diii
NeW-York, andidrives all before him, he takes a f e
extravagant fees, and for want of more, the w '>
country cannot avoid coming to him." lati
We ftifpetf this is tha last time, ihe people of
America have had occasion to complain of the
want of atonies. art
Ni
BOSTON, Oftober 22. on
Buonaparte is defeated ! >t
five-ry arrival brings frefh corrobsratives to
place the faft beyond the waverings of
conjefture, or the scrutiny of suspicion.
The only circumstance that " ere could
hang a doubt on't," was the concomitant f"
intelligence of the French buccanier's ar
rival at. Alexandria ;—the articles, how- Bi
erer, which we have had translated from Sc
the last Hamburgh paper, of the 24th
Anguft, reconciles the two accounts, and
completely eltablifhes the truth of BU
ONAPA RTE's DEFEAT.—To those a
of cur readers who are acquainteil with
themap of the Mediterranean, the intrinsic
teftimonr*..whtch_ the news
carries wiih it is incontriveriible ; and we
are most afliiredly convinced, that there S<
is not one Amsrican, jyho is worthy of
the name, that will not rejoice fn the au
thentication of this Important and Glori
' cits Intelligence In" thui annexing in- SI
plicit confidence to an unofficial account,
we would not wish to mislead the public fr
opinion, but it is impofiible to peruse the
confluent details of the battle from almost m
evety port adjacent to the scene of a£lion, h
each corroborating and explaining the o. ai
ther, without feeling the-mind impressed cl
with incfiftible cdrividlion. This, one
blow, (Irurk by the true '■ hearts of oak 1 '
of Old England has entire r y demoh'lhed
the navy of France, and paralized the
strong arm of the Directory. The vi
sionary projefts of their rapacious amhi
tion mult now be relinquished ; —Europe
and the world are rising with indignation
tb challife their infolcnce j and the day
of retributi in is coming with all the hor
rors denounced on the crimes of the rob
ber, the assassin and the ntheift.
A motig the immediate beneficial confe-
quenccs of Nelson's viftory ower the Gal
lic pirate,wecan alreadyannounce a complete
counter-revolution in Malta, in which ma- I
ny Frenchmen were destroyed.
The Empen i, the Porte, and Paul, I
have entered in'o a coalition against Fr.ince. ,
It ft-ems, the objeft of Buonaparte in re
embarkkig from Alexandretta, (or Scande- (
root)) was to take.the advantage of 'he river
Euphrates, whole head is near )ta
which place Alexandretta bc'ongs) where
it tirft begins to be navigable for hoais. The
liver aft< rwards visits the spot, where Baby
lon anciently flood, unites itfelf with the
Tigris, and empties into the Perflan Gulph,
from which totheEnglifh East India settle
ments is but a (hort passage. The other
division of the troeps, landed by the tfanf
ports left at Alexandria, was to march thro'
Grand Cairo to the Red Sea, where they
were to embark in'rafts and jffue into the
Indian Ocean. Had Buonaparte succeeded
iu.landing at Alexandretta, the reft of hit
rout would have been easily and rapidly com
pleted. Netfon's conquell is therefore the
moll important naval vidtory obtained by
the Englilh fkets duri:;g the. prefciit W3r.
The theatre, we ave alTutd 1 , will open on
29th Oftobtr in honor of the President's
Birth-Day ; and we are certain the manager
trill feel proud in preparing every arrange
ment and d coration suitable to the occasion
-rThe house will in confequer.ee be crow
ded in every department' from the Gods to
the Critics. ■
0- l'he Hcait 11'Unrce :» kej'l i'lj;hi sod
Ay, at the City Hall, "here rvery .iu-cr(Ta>y
••nvenience is procured for removing the £ck
411(1 buryini'-the dead
WILLIAM ALLEN.
-Health Office, September 1<).
II
COMMERCIAL. I c
HEALTH-OFFICE.
Oftober 26.
Application having been made to the Eft hi
Board of Managers of the Marine and City Jofef
Hofpitnls, to dispense with the quarantine
required by law, in the cafe of veflelt bound Jacol
to the portof Philadelphia, which may Have John
been within the Delaware more than ten R
days, without performing the regular quar- whoi
antine at the phce appointed : the Board
inform the mailers and fi'vnere of such ves
sels, that every instance in which any per
son has been landed on either fide of the bay
or river Delaware, previous to examination
by. the reiident physician at the Marine Hof
pitali and ceriificate by him granted, is a
direst violation of the health laws, and that Ed*
the persons so tranfgrefling, have rendered Will
themselves liable to prof■ cution.
The Board recommend to the raafters of Ben
vessels, bound to the port of Philadelphia, Jbfe
■ and liable to quarantine, to proceed imme- ' J am
distely to their ttation off the Marine Hof
, 1 pital, for regular examination- 1'
By order'of tb« boar! of Managers, 1 i
Wm. JONES, diffident,
Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
>
To be fold or Rented,
THE fuMcriber's hoafe, No 78, Walnut
ftreet,with a ciillat and rwo (tables—PoffeflSon or
> the honfe will be given early in {Jovumbe —tha j
r ' fUbfes and cellar iir.mcdiareiy.
p j GEORGE MEA.n
! Oaohrr 34, §tf Atl
[i ,
>; TENTS. J
:> j _ P h J
e The Committee <who fuperir.tend the Tents on ,
y.j the Banks of Schuylkill; p^ (
1 ! BEaleaye to acquaint theiramiable female c lty
" donors, that their prompt induilry and unpa- tha
'* raltlled liberality have been so abundantlybe- a f c
(lowed, as toenable themcorequeftno further wo ,
i marks of their benevolence in the article of 8 f ]
1,. | Infant and Small Childrens.Cloathing : any ««
I more Donatiws will be thankfully received,
ml{oas to provide for the ages of from four to W ,
16 1 twelve years.
3r j They camioi find language energetic '
" enough to thank them; bat when they
° are iafoimed that they have put it i:i the l><
power of the Committee to clothe the
a naked, save the (hivering child from perifh
itig, and to fend' the infant warm, and the
mother happy away, their own benevolent
and feeling htarts will afford them the belt. ' J
of gratifications.
By order of the committee, 5
) PETER MIERCKEH, Chmrmarn. ;
Tents, Oa. 24, 1798.
ys Relief of the Poor.
THE undermentioned persons are ap
pointed by concurrent refoljtions of the
ix. boards of managers of the Marine and City
le. Hospitals and guardians of the poor for the
el. : purpose of relieving such of their fellow ci
tizens whose situations render it improper
:a. for them to remove to the encampments,
ie. John Kehr, Peter Barker,
Peter Mierckcn, John Hutchinfon,
Alexander Steel, 'William XtMvnfim, T ~ ? ,
Thomas Allibont, John James,
Edward Garrigues, Thomas Saver j,
Ice Stephen Maxjield, Rhea King,
on Nathan A Smith, Pafcpal Holli'gfworth
do Daniel Doughty, John Teas
do By order lif the. board of Managers of
ilia the Marine and City Hofpiial. Ir
:r) Wm. JONES, Prdident.
in- Atfejl, c
ic- Timothy Paxfon, Clerk.
Id. £y order of the board of Guardians of (_■
is thepti r. R
ur- PETER. MIERCKEN, Pre/,dept. ?
w
THE committee appointed by the above
refolutiori f»r the relief of such peifoos, c
t j ic whose situations render it impia&ieable to t»
remove their families to the tents, being rea C
dy to enter upon the important duties of
their appointment 5 inform the public that ~
they will meet on the 2d, 4th and 6th days l
J t ' of each week, from 3to 6 o'clock, at the
11 -s ' Senate Chamber in the :itate house, wbe e ®
' ( " the indigent ef the above clafis will be re-
lieved, upon producing certificates from one
or more inhabitants who conti
rtite to tefi e in the city or suburbs, that -
ded t * le ' r am^'e3 are ' n a 'i tuat '° n as t0 ,
a render it improper to remove them to the
teiits.
£ The committee being sensible that no en- ,
' ° deavours will he lacki-g in the committees - 1
who superintend the encampments, to make
r the temporary residence of the poor a3 in- a
3 - habitants who removed to them as comforta
, ble as pnfilble ; and believing that the re
a" moval of them from the city, may, under -
, . Providence, be the mean 3of (topping the
' pievaffng disorder.; are defrous as rr.ucil as
- poflible 10 encourage it ; and therefore moil
1 . earnestly request their feilow citizens to re- -
PP CI commend none to them, but such families, J
"' am who from sickness or. other important con
fidera'.ions, are imptoper- obje&s to rec ive
I t h e publ c benevolence at the encampments.
Ml 1" Ed. GARRIGUES, Prelicknt.
, Peter Barker. Secretary•
,a Philadelphia, Qth mo. 19th, 98*
New Encampment. ■
n. THE Committee who sup rintend the ■ i
encampment at Maftrr's Hace near the Mill ' 1
n pond, on thCGeimantowr. road, about two I '
miles from the city, refpe&fidly inform their ]
,0 his country fn'rnds that they Hand in nerd of an
itstCT, immediate Supply of. vegetables and ttraw, .
jfEx- f or the life of th'-fe didreffrd citizens rho
y ,°, f are flying from the prefeni calamity. The
committee flatter themselves that the fame
th the liberality will be found in t\e farmer, and o- ;
repu- thers, to supply this encampment, as has ,
f said i^ e(l to t i !a t on the Commons near Schuy!-
name , ot j j )iav j ng t ], e f ame landable obje£l
; arc . j
fition, US Vie*.
in the John Ins keep 1
"their J ort ' Ro^rf* 1 r Committee.
'H, Isaac IV. Morris J
Sm "- Camp, Matter's Place,
.
■
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
From 27th to 28th O&ober.
* ADMITTED. XV
Eflher, a black', Robert M'Devit. .
Joseph Peters. . , f »
DIED. Bank
Jacob James, Captain Singleton, jr;,- p
John Peters. " - No 1
P.emainitig in the Hospital, 39, 18 of
whom are on the recovery.
Interred from city and fuberbs, 9
City Hcfpital, 3 1
> No 11
Total, 12 ii
• From 28th to 29th o£\ober. 11
ADMII TED. 1
Edward Vizon, Fanny Taylor- j
William Shuuno.i.
DIED. At
Bernard Smilh Margt. M'Donald, iylvi
Jofep''Leary, Joseph Iviinis, G
James Smith. each,
Dilcharged 7. '
Remaining in the Hofpiial 30, of whom j )r^
11 are on the recovery. e[ ( a
Interred from City, Hospital 5 ward
City and Liberties 5 herH
,uf tt
10
t PHILIP S. PHYSICK*
r Christopher Darrah, Sitward.
By order of the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Pirfi. ext.
Attefl, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
" T 4 ]
Eighteen new cases for 48 hours, by 16
phylicians.
" Departed this life on Sunday morning,
c city merchant. It may bt truly said of her iatisi
that (he wa' an affectionate and tender wife,
- a fond mother, a friend lo the poor, and a
r worti.y and efteemcd member of the tociety
i e,f Frier.ds.
y 1,1, ■
List of all the Burials in ltd feveril Grave M
l ards of the City and Liberties of Phi/a
c delphia, as taken from the look.' kept by ry 1,
y Clergymen, Sextons, &c.
. [Cplle£ted for the Gazette of the United tt
|C States, by ROBERT P/,XTON.~\ ne
1- a *•
ig Names of the BuriaPGrounds. 13 'c
It - sy
• Chrilt 'v,nureh - - - >-■ p; J J
St Peter's - tj 0 j
Sr. Pauls - - - - - 1 A<l
First Presbyterian - - o 1 (_
Second Prelbyterian - - -00 Mu
Third Prelbyferian - - - o x F
Scots Prcfbyterian - - - oj o R,£
Aflociate Church ... 00a
St. Mary's Church - - - 3: I 40c
p. Trinity Church ... o 1 1 !
he Friends' - - - - 3 0
tv Frae Quakers' - - - 1' o '
, ' o| 1 Lit
, c German Lutheran - 7 t '
:l " German Reformed Prelbyterian 1 1 r °
•er Moravians' - - - 0 o
Baptlfts'" - - - ' 00 :
Mcthodifts' - - - - 00
Univerfalifts' - - » - o o • ~
Jews' ..... ei_e
City HdlpTtat - - - - Hi o 1
Kenfmgton - - - - «l 1 X*
Coates'i. - - - - **! e i 0 r C r
rth Total for the last hours j-g 9
" - ————- i n j
of Just Imparted, \ ag*
Iron cannon; donble fortified, Woolwich proof, mi
t. with t,beir carriage# complete— 4, 6 jjid 9 mt
' I 1
Carronadcs, Wotlwiah proof, with carriages, &c. °(
complete—ft, 18 a»d 34 pour.iiers. i v i'
°f Cannon powder in k:g« of 35 lbs. eaiii • '
Reund, double h aJfd, and cauniil(,r (hot I t' l '
Patent (heaihing copper, bright. aiToi ted 18, 30,!
ix, 34, 16 sad »8 or per'fquars'foot, foeets 48
by 14 Inthff, faitaklc for v»ft«ls iroui 109 to
)ve T. ; v. •'
' 1000 tails
" s > Copper nails, bolts and spikes A
to Bojirding PjVes,
ea Common cu; »ITcs
0 j- Gunners {lores of all kindt ■ /
, Tin-plates l\o I —l-3 erofs b-xes £
i'atent foot in casks of each ln
ays London porter ami brown {l«ut, in cases cf 7 doa. cc
the botthi), _
ec Earthen ware is crates, afiorted ,
re For Sale iy
51MON WALKER,
on s Pine near street. U
ntl Oftober 19. e&.ff
"» ; to Be i.«, ;;
tlie For Six Months, fj cm the firjl of Novcm- in
her next,
en- COMMODIOUS three ftnry briik Koufe, ®J r
tees J-ji with exteiiTive back buildingi lituaied
.'-f No. 1.33, South Seco*d Street.—For terms
ill- »pp'y to
ria. JAMES* LYLE. f
South Seventh, neir Chefnut Street.
! c " Oclober 19 dtf a
ider v;V tt —'—' ci
the 10 Me Let, n
ii as And immediate pofftjjton Given,
nott A COMMOCIOU^'Hre-Story Brick'We" ft
, t -e- -iV with convcriiei t back buildings, fnuated d
i; es at the nonh «eft corner of I hird and
' ftreeis. —For term 1 ; to F
c ;" e * ,Di. THOMAS PARKE.
No. 30, South Fourth Stre-t.
nts * Odlober 29 dtf 1
" to~BE RENTPD, s
( /!nd imn. jiate poffjjion given, J
A LARGE tiir'. f, flb.-v tiRICK HOUSE,
fituait in Walnut-firee*—The rooms are
commodious, airy afld priv jte—tr'>m whic{i,and
i the i its central fitiia* onj.ir 's thought to be an eligi-
JyJill 1 ble situation f»r a Public Offi t. For terms, en
two i quire rf. B'i-.J. ir..MOR:U S.
p„j, i jllfo A commodioi.s Ware IJeule, in Tay
, lor's Alley.
:>f an tJiflober 39.
raw, j
r.ho TEN DOLLARS REWARD. .
The T~vESER. s'ED last eight, a fcc;>na time, from
fame XV the Marine Ourtp, DjvlJ Ljprr, a fife-. t
,1 n _ He bad when
veil,light blu overa ! , » round lias whith ! idliecn .
1133 bouud with yello-v, ar4 which-1 e had ripped off
uyl- in his firlt deLrtioii. and a of new fiioes. he is
jjeft a Carpenui by trade bas grey e)cs, fj: d hair I
f jfl«vT coniplexton and H niteh in hisunp. r lip. (
His back is ftlH fore from a flogging be g.rt a few
days ago. He may bp iWcovcred liy hi> fifcing, j
ttfe " as he plays extremely well.
W. W. OUSA9VTS Major Com. of the
Mvuie Ccrps. 1
' Ofiobsr 17, '
•;» \ "V .V
• .♦ *
1
Batik of Eennfyfaarr.l; ■
S^pi'. MbiT jt : , r
WHEKBAS the Home at piefer.t -4
bv the Bank of Pcttnfjlvauii v.-» si ,-
ed oil the n-jhf of thefirfl inHant, by h r ; <- v;S.
• lams, who robl>ed the inftitiitioh of fuoiirf
Bank Notes, amniiyft which were O.e fol.nw*
■ in;,' pod cotes of tV.» Hank of Ncv-York, vt«
Nit jooa, (fated l.ld of Atipj!), 1798. ii Ut
issued in favor oi Seabrir.g <k
Van Wyck, for 3( y »6 %%
No dated 25th of Aoguft, 179?,
issued in favor of Montgom
cry and Ne wbold for 1150
No ico6, »?th do. do. do. icOo
1007, do. do. do. do. aooo
iocß, d». do. clo. do. 2000
1009, do. do. do. do. acoo
1010, • 28th do. do. do. loco
1011, do. do. do. do. 2000
JOl2, 30th da. do. do\ >SOO
101,3, do. do. do do. 1000
Also sundry port note? of the B.trtk of Penn
, fylvinia, dairt! 23d July 1797. ili'ucd in favor
, os-George Hughes, for one thhufand dollar*
each, and fu'.dry post notes of fjld Bank, da
ted 1 jth cvf July, 1797, iflfaed in favor of Geo.
Hughe6, for live hundred dollars each and in
1 dorfed by hira. 't'lie public are hereby caution
ed again!! receiving the laid no:es, a re
ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLL MS i»
hereby offered for th- difet*;rjr and ccnv!(3ion
,of the villains who perpetrated or are c«nc 11
ed in the fahl robbery, in.addition ti. the r- v-ir J
oftered-by tie Governor of the Commdnv. ealth
in his Proclamation of thii day.
By order of the ISojrd,
JONATHAN SMI I'll, cafoier.
bhip Brokers..
g This EUahlifhucnt, commenced fcy the late Mr,
Stmuei Smith, will he tontijipetf by
Row & SI?>iMONS,
WHO acquaint the Merchants,
Trader l ., and Mnft-.rt of velfrln; that 110
1S ? paira or exertions anting to give general,
r iatisft&ibu . This tnjfintf* will be conc*u&ed at thuir
- Stare, No. i oj y Soulh Water Street, near to the
Cifftorn Hou(V\
OAobcr 2 7 dtf
y a
For Sale, or Charter,
m ttKtSIK THE'OA NISH BRIG
Louisa,
I NOW lying at Burlington, r% ve"
!'V ry tail lailer.—For teims afpyto
JACOB SH6EMAKER.
WHO HAS FOR SALF
D Her cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
~ St. Martin's Salt.
1(5 mo. J4th, '9B diot.
3
~9 ' J'ift imported fop s William Penn, A
-0 tniabic and Jean,from London,
1 A quantity as Cani.on,fixes 4,6 & 9 V l; balls
1 Ca" ronaces, 11 lbs j fuitaLU.
0 Mufqucts, Mi)fquetuens,Cutlafles and"|
1 Pi ois, ier Ih.i «!e, I g,
I o Rifiad barreled Uur<s, Fowling Pieces, S
0 and Horitnun's Viflols, 1 s u
1 '4ocrf3oo Flints, cl.iefly'or miufeets, in ; g*
£ J
0 R.- ulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scaj-
I 0 Vards, in calcs of 50 .ach, > ,
j Light Cavalry Swor<ls 1b Cases
t Sabres, Swor. s and CutiaiT. s, with plated mounting
j J Ironmongery a!;id*C m ca&s, a general at
fortmcut —For by
° Thomas is* Jno. Keildnd,
j o Philad. Oitohar 25.
i a Eight Dollars Re-ward.
0 A ROBBERY wa3 cemmitted on
" 1 i tiae 17th iutHnt, at tlio house of the iub
-3j 0 fcriher in the town&ip of Soiehury by two negro
men,—they carried off a quantity of ca!h j a pnk«-
' 9 et book, coirtaining'fo w valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, &c.—Oat «f the negroe. i» a nui'hr
i aged m<in, knows of the name of (ohn White, for
tiof ' merly a resident of l'hilade p.'ua, has an impedi
{j ' rarat in his fpeecli—the other supposed to be
j a runaway, r.beut eighteen years el age, of
6f r \of mitidle ftatvre. Whoever secures the aforefaid
j V(llains,fo that they may be brought to juflice, fha'.l
, eigne dollars reward, 01 four for either of
1 the (a tak n separately.
IO 1 IS.MAH TtICKEMONEY.
54S £1 lfbiiry, 10 Mo. 19th, T798.
t0 Dr. Ye at man's
Anti-peflilential and
anti-bilious Pills,
ARE earndftly recommended at this Btai'on,
against the Fevers that prevail. .Prepared
and fold only by rhe Suhfenl.er, who fee! • t ne
doi. cc [f ar y to eEiurace this opportunity of acquaint
ing the Public, that he received 1 regiii 11 edu
cation in the different Branches of
Physick, Surgery, £s? Midwifery,
tl Under his Father ; a»<t other eminent men in
t f the cities of Lw,don and Bristol, and (in tie
courfs of twenty-eight yeirfi)'has fe£n thr ma
ny good effei\s of this itteowparabje medicine,
•em- is Bilious, Jaundice, of f Jepatic caf's, Dropsy,
Rheumatifai, I.ues-Vcncfea. Scsrvy, Worm ca
jfes, Maligoaut and other Difeifcs, proceeding
:mfe, f ronl a crl munv-nd ob!lrn:1ion.
THE PILLS
Are prepared according totr.ue rutScj! prin
r cipl :s, and may he fifth' taken by l"he mofl de
lirate In boies f a quarter and half
I£ " a dollar, with direflion*, and fca.cd with hit
creft, cyphet, and motto. None else are Ge-^
nuiue.
N. B. The anti-pestilential pre
;oufe fervative, was used svith great success *! Lon
lated don, a arfeilles, Bristol, and other Cities,
j'nu* when they were rifpe£l!vely vilited with the
* ' PLAGUE.
7 In bottles of a quarter dollar and half 1 dol
"J* t Ur, with Dire<£lions, and rhe Corks sealed as
it s above.
Charleton Yeatmajt.
South Eaftcornerof Lombard and Second streets,
New Market.
JSE, oftober 2 _ law. fu
a a uj Palnting Work,
■'e P r! F vcr y Kind,
'is' EXECUTED A; ViE SHUUTE3T
ray. NOTICE,
Jt the Office «/the Gazstth of the
UsiTtnSTAT€S,
- And forwarded agreeably to direc
■fro!r tion, any where in the vicinity of
the city.
tai.d OA, ijv dtf
■ .■ ■ - ■ ■
:d off f/jg Subscribers to this Gazetle
hair residing in, and near Germanto-zvn,
r !'P- are respectfidly informed, that their
papers will be forwarded (daily J to
Mr. Samuel Richardet, in Cerman
' l ! town ; inhere a list of their names
will be Uft.
\PROPOSALSj
BY THE
Infir ance Company of North America.
For Insurance against Fn*, on Dwelling-
Hnufes, Ware Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant frofn
Philadelphia, in the United States.
L Common lufurancet, on haZanls of the firft
elals, will he undertaken at a premium of ahout
hali per c nt. per annum. For extra hazardous '
rifqaes a larger preirMm will be required, which .
will vai y according to feidom ex
teeding one per cent, per annum ; bat ifl some in- i
Handei, where the property insured ianot only in
itfclf ex'ra hazardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to Arcumftances.
Houses and Ware-Houses", the wail»-and parti
tions of whioh are wholly of stone or brick, well
eonftnnfted, so as to be guarded as well as may be
agaihft fires irom within, andlrte from extra ha
larddut buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, wiH be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured te their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, de
l»°fitcd in flich buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; bat if more than thwfum
«s required to be insured in one tenement, an addi*
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
•trcuinftances.
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
goods , xtra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tljit risque. But it is Mot easy to arrange these
•mier particular heads or clafTes, so as to describe
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each cafr mull
therefore be dccidcdupon according to the circum
ftanccji tending it; and these circumfiances will,
in general, appear from the description accompa
nying the application.
Buildings partly conftru&ed of brick or (lone,
ah: preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are csaQderations to
be taken into view. And with refpeit t« goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to comnfence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in firch (late to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal,- or t» be ito
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir- I >
eumftances of weight; and the premiums mufl be
proportioned accordingly.
IH» The fallowing copditiont are to be ander
ftood by the parties.
rft. The Insurance is not binding- till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; bat it {hall be deemed ef
feclual ivtitn the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
«H. Insurances may he renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense« than the payment of th« premium of the re
newed term, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they were understood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is efTential to such renewal; and *
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after 1
the Expiration of the former insurance, before he
, pays a prem iuirt for the renewal, he is not insured *
during futh time ; nor can the insurance be renew- c
ed an the former policy bnt by computing the 1
commencement of the renewal fr»m the expiration c
of the former insurance. The fubjeCl of in fur- F
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
jnfurance. v
3d. If any other insurance be madeon the fame "]
property ; it mud be made known at the time of 1
application, ntherwifc the policy made on such ap
plication will be void. ,!
4th Goods held in trull, or on confignmant, n
rway be iitfured as such in a separate policy; bnt '•
they arc no; t« be considered as infuied atherwtife. P
,?th. This comp.,t.y will not be liable or accoun- C
tahle for any loss or damage occafiom-d by any lor- n
tlgn invafmn, orbysmy military or usurped force
or by Fesifon of any civil commotion ; or occasion, ''
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of t!»- 0
like kind kept m the building, or amongst the pro
perty iufured. U
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title D#jds, Money, Bank and other pro- 8
miliary Notes, are not included in any insurance ; f u
nor ue paintings, Tedals, jewels, gems, antique
aUrioißties, or mirrorS exceeding the vulae of t\rta- _
ty-five dollarseach, to be con£dercd as insured une j
less particularly mentioned aid by fpecialagiee- i
mcnt.
7th. No insurance will be made for* (better ( ]_
term than one year, nor for a longer terra than fe- 1 OI
vev, years. Persons choosing to mfare for seven j T
years lhall b eallowed one year's premium by way |
of difeount; One third of a yeartpremium shall I ns
be abated in like manner on an insurance for > cs
three years. j a
Bth Losses fuflained by fire aa property insured, n<
shall be paid in thirty days after due pcouf and li- ft,
quidation thereof, without deduction. c [
A defciiption of the property to be infirrod will ,
be expedle'd with each application, to be made by f a
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as w
by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in- a
jurance, and attested before a Notary or principal ft
Magiflt.itc, who will certify his knowledge of the p,
parties and their credibility. 1S
With refpeiSl to Houses and other Buildings. e)
ifl. The site and polition; describing the ft
street or toad on or near which the building a
ttands : its contiguity to water, and other cir- ft
r.uui Halites relative to the extinguifhmciit of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether e<
any and what fire companies are eftablilhad, and h
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. Pi
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls at inside or
partition walls, and their refpedlive height and
thlcknels ; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the A
house and to the chimniea j whether any and
-what eleflrie rods ; the mngnher and kind of Jj
Kie places ; and the kind of deposit for alhet.
3d. ihe dinienfions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
to enable indifferent perfans to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition us the bidding,
jtnd how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, an4.for what pur
pol'e , also an estimate of the value of the house
or buildmg independent of the ground. *'
4th. Tie fituatian with refpefl to other build
ings or back buildiwgs, whether adjoining or
got, comprehendiDg at least one hundred sett _
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diflance, how built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwcl- 1
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any »nd what trade or manufactory it car- "
ricd on, and particularly whether there be any u
extra hazardous articles ufcd, or usually depo
sited in the h<)ufe, or within the diltance afore- n
ibid, and of what kind. c<
{lsfpedlinggqodj in Houses, Warehouses, &c. t<
1. A reneial description of the building in h
which they aieUpt will beexpetSed, similar in «
all refpefls, as to the danger from fere, with that "
tequ'wed for Insurance on the Uuildings them-
le 'a!*A description of the kinds and nature of 11
thi iroods, whether in caSts or other packages, "
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole £
piece, or in th« ul'u.4 iorw for W»Ui»g. Aud
I ! if the puo", vv materially in kind, a general
eliimaie i.f tW value as each kind propafed to
t« inlurrd j tuit in the lait particular minute
» ness of description is not expeiled.
I 3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
*• j ed extra hazardous, though iu various degrees,
5" | in whatever baifdie;'they may be placed, viz,
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol'n, wax, tallow, oil,
m inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp,flax, cotton,
dry geods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Gijfs, 'china ware or porcelain, especially un
ut parked; Looking glalles, jeweler* j and all o-
U3 . ther articles morJ than commonly inflammable,
or trore than cemmonly liable to injury by fud-
I den removal or by moiflures, or particularly
n _ ' obnoxious to theft on >n alarm of fire.
; n ■ Letters pofl p."id, direifted to the Secretary of
so the Bpafd of Dlreilors, will be duly attended
id to. An order far Insurance accompanied by the
ed raaans of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
:i- the application contairt an ertqiiirji only, it will
=ll be»anfwered.
Br order of the Board,
a- ESENITZETt HAZARD, Sic'ry.
Qffise of the Insurance Company o/"fJortls )
America; Pbilad. Feb. r, 1798. )
Feb. 14- • lamtf
e - Mills, Portage, &c.
n TO BE LEASiD FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
»* \
:o ' I Obe lervfed, for a term not less than three,
I nor more than seven years, a V ALU ABLE
id PROPFRTJP at the Seneca-Pall*" in the county of
:d Ononuago, Ind state of New-Yqrk, on the Banks
fe of the Seneca-river, two tnile.s weft of the Cayuga
>e ferry, and eleven miles eafl oi Gancva.
ft This ertAlilhment confiils of an excellent grift
>- mill, saw mill, dwelling houie, barn, and a port
i, age or carrying place, with between thirty and
i- forty acres of land, under good improvement, and j
as much more hi the vicinity, as maybe required
c, for future improvement.
n The grill mill h a. handsome, newand Well fin
iflied building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 (lories high
g and lurnifhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
0 and another of Efopas' stones, as the bell quality
s, —and tile most appraved bemits, &c. calculated to
,r make all the different qualities of flour for expur
■r tation or for home consumption : Itisacceffible by
d water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Se
y neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from its situation, commands a veryextenfive and
•_ encrealing dllom : The ltream on which it (lands,
ie being the outlet of the Scneca-lake, the mill cau
never htm want of water ; and as it has been kept
•„ working during the fesfcreJl feafot: of the lall win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by freft :
The saw mill is also new, situated on the fame
dream, now furniflied with an ample flock of
t- logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
y cured by land or water, of the bed quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for the use
. of the miUer, is new, and fufßciently lat ge : The
barn i» about 40 feet fifuare, and entirely new :
The portate is 3-4thsof a ruilr in length, along
e the Seneca-falls—over which were pa/fed in the
e 'aft year, nearly two hundred boats with their
t contents ; this. objeA is already produ&ive of a
d handsome income, which must.be incrcafing and
r permanent:
e Among the many advantages of thisfituation,
1 must be numbered the fertility of thefurrounding
. country—being the baft improved part of the coun
e ty of Onondaga—the concentration cf inter
, coarse by land and water, the Geneffee (lateroad
. palling through it, as well as all water carriage co
, Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a most eligible llaad for a Store or
. Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fifh and
f lowl, and the country with deer and other game*.
Besides the mills already ereiScd ai this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
, maybe found necessary—Fulling mill, balk mill
t tannery, forges, &c. may be erected at a f.-nall ex
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats irom the
. Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the
. neighborhood.
The Hock on hand w : ll be fold to the Icffee, and
, the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, See. may befold
or let tbepremifes.
If apurchafe (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
Far terms of sale or lease, apply ta mr. Wll
- Mvndcrse, at the Seneca fails, ortothe
fubfenber, at ScheneAady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
jure 15 lawam
Federal rviiils,
| A DJOINING Georgetowp, and the City of
i jTx. Waihington, will be offered at Public Sale,
1 on the 10th day ot September next, as the Union
J Tavcra, if not previoully fold at Private sale '
1 Those millsin point of fituationfor bufinefsand
I na ural advantages are generally admitted to be
j equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
| a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
new, in which are eredjed four pair of Burr mill
stones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting •
cloths, completely finifhed and conftrudlcd in such 1
a manner that the whqle of the mills may manu
facture flour at the fame time. The countrv mill
which is crested near the other, js entirely new,
a strong stone building, containing one pair of '
stones, and built in such a manner that the second
pair may be put up wkh little expehce. This mill
is conveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry on 1
extensively, country worjf, of which it gets a con- 1
ftant supply. There ii belonging to the said mills
acras of land, thi whole of which will be
fold with the mills.
One third of the purchafr money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and fir the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further
particulars veillbe on the day ef sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES ts* Co.
Georgetown, july 13. »3_ 3 awts
LANDING,
At Sauth Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
necticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In eannifters—-for fa'e-by
PETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO aFFIRS fOR SAL I,
150 hhds. choice .|amaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds v
Brandy tft and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
: ju'y * ' 5
John Haines £jt Wm. Jones,
BF.G leave toinform their'friends and the public,
thßt they have commenced a Co-pattnerfhip
in the SADDLING BUSINESS, which will m
future be carried on aader the firm of
HAINES (gr JONES,
■ n Market (trcet, N®. t3», one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at least
to hape) that their attention to, and knowledge in i
bufinefj, thrir deternaination to serve on the bed ;
terms, and their known attachment as Native A
mericansto the Government and £anftitation of
their Countty, will entitle thent to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Althoagh they can-j
- not boast of having icquired their experience in
any, part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging ihemfclvrs that iheir manufacture lhal
be inferior to none in this city,
junc ii. mtbtf
lf DUTY on CARRIAGES.
0 t
Notice is hereby given, ,
1- HPHAT agreeably to an a& oi CoAjfrcl* of the
9, -I Unit d States of America, pjffrd un PUita- St
<4elphia the atfch day of May, 1796, l»vi"g du t
|? ties oncarpage* lor the conveyance of perftft*, and I a
1 repealing the former a<5U for that pi>rpelf—-That j
thrre fhal! he kvied, calleSed p «ij, upon al! j,
carriage* for the conveyance of which
fliall be kept by or for any person, for his or her
own use, or to let out to hire, or for thr convey- q
* ing of passengers, the fevexal duties and rates M-
j 1 " lowing, viz. dolls,
y For and upon every coach 15
upon every chariot 11 ~
upon every pod chariot u
upon every j.oft dhiiie 12
ie upon every phxton, with or without top 9 ' r
&" upon every coachee 9 n
It upor» other carriages, having pannel
11 work above, with blinds, gluflTes, > 9 0
t»r curtains 3
upon four-wheel carriage®, hwrving S °t
frame poits and tops, with heel C 6 p'
springs j ' r
upon four-wheel top carriage, with "> F
wqriden or iron springs on jacks J fc
- upon curricles with tops 3 w
upon chaill-t with tops ( \ pi
upon chairs with tops 3 f e
upon iulkies with top« 3
upon other two wherl top carriages 3
e » wpon two wheel carriages withlleel"> j n
E or iron springs 3 or
;) f For and upon all other two wheel carriages a e(
upon every four wheeled j n
l " having framed posts aad tops, V % .
and retting upon wooden spars j
■ L The Collector of the revenue oi the firft division P. 1
- of the firft survey of the diftriS of Pennfylvanra,
d will attend daily until the 3QtI» of September £ c
d next, ior the purpose of receiving the dutie« on
d carriages, at German town, cn the Mtin street, a
little above the sign of the King of Pruflia, of di
1 which all persons poiTeffed of such carriages arc yi
t desired to take notice. f©
'* Notice is also given, °j
ro all retail dealers m win'n an J foreign diftiUe* 1
spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business oi ? r
retailing of wifl;s t in a less quantity JJor in' less cn
uantitiet, than 30 gallon > —and one licence for
arrying on the business of retailing spirituous li- di
, *|uors in quantities than twenty gallons, at the °/
fame time and at the fame place, by tic
t JAMES ASH, or
ColJe&or of tfcc ifl division of frhe ift
Survey of tbediAritS of Pennsylvania. »h
„ Office of Infpe&ion at Germantown, "> th
j. , 22d Al.guft, 1798. S th
C/* Every denomination of Stamps to be had foi
at laid cfiice,
; gr The Stamp Press is removed th
- t0 tj l6 Office cf Infpe&ion in Germantsiwn, on the an
Mai* Atict, a little above the flg'i of the King of ***'
\ Prussia, where attendance will be given for the °f
accommodation ot thole who wish any cl<
(lamped, on 1 uefdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, rei
1 ugu*--ta 22 co
1 For Sale at Public Audion,
ON THE PREMISES, ai)
FOUR LOTS on Harpe'rmd Keith's wharf, in on
Alexandria, on the a6th day of o<2ober as
. next, if not fold at.priva'e fate before that time. tic
[ One oT these loti i» near the end of the wharf,
1 twenty feet beyond which the water is two fathsms , rf '
; deep, a! out forty feet rut three fathoms, fifty feet U !
■ out the water i« four fathoms, and gr#ws deeper „
I until it com« to the channel, which is about fc»-
enty feet from the end of the whai t. I here is m
as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level be
the wharf, which ir.ay want railing about a foot 1°
rrpar the end. I'hcre is in this sale an half acre lot
very fit for a tavern ; it is w;ll watered, and an ex
cellent Hand for that business. Thi< property will om
be fold for ready money, and altogether or fepar- txi
_ ate, »s may hef> suit the purehafgr ;it lays on the mi
lower fide of Alexandria, whichis now improving lha
very faft. A feetchof the ground may b- - f»en in the
the h.rids of the Printer hereof. For terms at th<
private sale, apyly to \Vn Hartsuorne, or to i'at
the fuhferiber, in Alexandria'. f at
JOHN HARPER. | av
September 3 iawßw to
Wants iimploytnent, Un
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regit- e !
lar apprenticeship to the mercantile bufi- ■ '
ness in this city, wishes to engage in a Couuting ?
house or officii, w rites a good hand and under- ■
Hands accounts, can be well recommended and V"
security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
-i" ne ™ 3awtf
Balkenridge—for iale
IT coulifts of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, refidencoof the late
Ewl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, fourof which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick. £
Th*r» ar« on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—i'lie dwelling house
is a very convenient one and|afmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conuflsof XSOO fin shearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other ptrts otfaid
'raft near 300 othef Apple free*—as also a great tic
variety of other fruits,particularly Chcrriesof the •
best and 110 ft delicious kinds. v in j
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and gri
ForeftT*eos, that add to ths beauty and eonveni- ,
ence of the place. Its fituatioif is about 18 mile*
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. th(
frem Morris-Town, and u from Suringfield— it .1
is wooded and watered. °
1 o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre da
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. He use to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co. COl
No. 78, Chefnut treet- Cc
chwry 1. eodtf
Patent Ploughs, ~ tic
Toxoid for eafli by Joseph Salter at Atfion thi
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry-Jonathan
Marker, Woodbury— and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton. Thole who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they .equire j
less team, break the ground better , are kept in
«rder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate—the plan is much limplified and confiftsof
but one piece of call iron, with the handles and
beam ef wood; they may befixed with wrought tha
lays and coulter, to be pot on with screws and
taken off atpleafure tha
Patent rights for 1 ending with inftruiflions for put
miking them may be had by applying to John ran
Newbold, or the fubferiher No. ,[, North 1>«
Front-fireet. or ,
V/ho has for Sale;
Or to Lea/e for a term of Hears, A/
A number of valuable trafl. of Land, well
fitnated fer Mills, Iron Works or Farms, most- P
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hur.-
tingdort/lau of Pennsylvania. Thole who may 3m
incline to view them wilt please to applv to °"
John Can»» efq.near Huntingdon. ' ed
CbarUs Ncwlold.
aawtf
To be Let, wr
» An airy three Story Brick House * '
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, betw-.n P o '
Eighth and Ninth ftreit, formerly ouru'.ied
as the Surveyor General 1 , OJhc«-_Ennnire at No
> 11, Chefnut Street.
4U£H(t 10 e<ut
i £
AN ACT
Far the relief of the Rtfugccs fro-n the British
provinces of Gti'tada and Nova-Scotia*
T) E it enachd »J the Senate and House
hi D of Reprefentattves of the United
la- States of A merit*, in Contftefs ajpttikled, That
!u to fatisty the claims of certain persons claiming
nd lands un V r the rel'oiutiens "f Congress, of the
lat i ttrei.t-y-tlurd of April, one thousand seven hun
a" died and eighty-three, 2nd the thirteen*h of
Apiil, one thousand seven hirftd'ed and eighty
ltr five, as refugees from the Biitilh provinces of
Camda and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
®. Department of War, be, and is herthy autho
rized and diredlrd to give notice in one or more
of the jyublic papers of each of the States of
Jj Yer'ment, Maffachuletts, New-
I 2 Harnplhire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav
ing claims under the fiid refohltions, to tranl
g roit to thi; War-oflice, within two years after
the pafikig of this a<3j a just and true account
9 of their claimd to the bounty of Congrels.
Sec. a. And he it further enad'rd. That no
other persons lhal! be entitled to the tienefit of the
6 provilions of this a3, llun those ef the f Hew
ing defcriptinns, or.their wid<'\t s and lirirs, viz.
Fir#, thole headsjfff families, and finale per-
fons, not mem hers *ot ar.y fuchfamilics, who
3 were residents in one of the provinces afore/ai'd,
.t prior to the fourth day W July, one thousand
3 seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
-3 doned their letllements. in confeq'jencenf hav
-3 ing givea aid to the United Colonies or States,
j in the revolutionary War agaisii fcreat-Britain,
or with intention to give inch aitl, and continu
-1 ed in the United States, «r in their service, dur
ing thefaid war, an»l did not return to reside in
1 the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
j a thoufind fiven hnndied and eighty-three. Se
er' condVy, the widows and Reirs of all l'uch per
an Cn» as were ailual residents, as aforcfaid, who
a abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, aqd
# C died within the United States, or in their fer
re vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
sons who were m»mbers of famitii i at the tinae
of their coming into the United States, and who
during the war, entered into tbtir service.
to Sec. 3. And be it further exailed, That the
j- pro»f of thr feverjl circumstances neceflVy to
C s entitle the applicants to the benefits of this atft,
cr may be taken before a judge of the supreme or
li. diftridl court cf the United States, or a judge
ie of the supreme .«r lupericr courr, or the firit jtaf
ticeorfu ll judge of the court ot common pleas
or county court of any State..,
(I Sec. 4. And he it enacted. That at
1. the expiration of fyte«fii'roa)uhs froin and after
the palling of this ait, and from time to tiine
thereafter, it (hall be the duty rf -the Secretary
>d for the Department ef War, to lay fash evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
d the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
lc and with them, proceed to. examine the tefti
)( mony, md give their judgment what qnantity
ie of land ought to be allowed to the individual
ts claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
s. refpe6livefervu.es, facrilWeT and fufferiags, in
consequence of their attachment to the caule of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class a quantity thwilandacres ;
and to the lall class, a quantity not exceeding
n one hundred, making such intermediate classes
:r as the resolutions aforefaid, and diliributive jus
tice, mav, in their judgment require, and make
' report thereof, to Cougrels. Aiid in cafe any
J* luch ehimant {hall have fultained such loffas and
r rufTerings, or performed such services for the
r _ United States-, that he cannot justly be classed
; s in a«y one general claf«, a separate rfeport shall
; l be made of hi 3 circumstances, with the
lt quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
lt having reference to the foregoing ratio i Pro
-vidtd, thai in considering what compenfitien
II ought to he made by virtue of this a<sl, all grants
•- except military pasts, which may have been
e made by the United Staff.; or individual States,
g ThaTl be conUderert at the jult value thereof, at
n the time the fame were made, refpeftively, el
t ther in whole or in part, as the cafe may be, a
0 iatisfadlion to those who may have received the
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
law, (hall be assignable until after report made
to Coßgrefs, as aforefakl, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this afl.
Sec. 5. lie it further enafled, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
' (hall not be exhibited is aforefaid, within the
time by this adt limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
e JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefeutatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Viee-Pr-eftdent of the United States,
, and Pref.dent sf the Senate.
e Approved, April 7, 1798.,
d JOHN ADAMS,
e Prtfident of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the uflLe of the
g Department of State,
e ' TimothV- Pickering,
d Secretary of State.
1 dr Purfuaut to tlx above Ad, No
>t ticc is hereb/ given to.ill persons liav- ,
e ing claims under the resolutions of Con- 1
d grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and j
| the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto 1
1. the War-Office within two years after '
' the passing of die said Adt, viz. the 7th <
e day of April, 1798, a just and true ac- \
count of their claims to the bounty of a
j. Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift at ten- <
tion must be paid to th« requisitions of ■
11 the 2<i and 3d Sections of the Act. t
" JAMES. M'HENRY, «
e Secretary of IVar.
e july 19 ' ;aw6w
AURORA OFFICE,
f October 10, 1798.
i Reports having been circulated
r that THE AUROR A was not to be rc-puMifhcd, 1
p l *blic arc hereby refpeAfully iciormed (
that the want of hands a4one has prevented it« re- " •
r publication ftvcral Jays ago; hut that fuSi ar- 1
n rangemcots ar« now making as will aflure the a.p- a
h p«arance of the paper tn t-he course ©f the present, 1
or the firfc week of the next ruoi ih. c
§ st c
, Mails for Georgia, I
- P provided fortarrvin? the 1
- . Jr, u ' m » , ' sl, :"A'Jftrhetween Philadelphia
and Charleflo#. I hey wHI leave Philadelphia •
I °" Friday s. The poll b? I.tnd will be continu
ed twice a week until wi experiment is tnade in
regard to the exped'tlon and regularity of the
packets. If any person thufts to I ave their '
- letters Pent hy land only, they Avill pleaff to
Write the word Zand upon the letters : other- 1
W ''f t bt sent b Y ,h,t c °nveyaure whjrfi c
w:il fira start after the letters are left in the 2
1 polt-«fficc. c
Jof'-ph Haherjham, j 1
p,. . . PoJl-MafUr CemerL j
Philadelphia, A* S uJl i j.,. 18. J
» A-dfoTJ" P*-' Pai ¥'"l,
ft V Cll e!nur.ftreet,
;<* ( lz e of a
ORATION,
f At thereqjeftof th/lnh^nLnuoft'heT
" iir f •" -™ "r n f 3f
rf verfar / », ** ! l Jndcpendeace
r- „ rp* . y J OS '-" B burner.
as Ihe upon our public liberty cull
le lor repara«,o n -The wrongs we have fuftW
> "11 for-jW That Reparation and th»t
re Juft.ce, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit
jf and Firmne;s. But lo divide and
r . the maxim of the ftev.l in the garden of £ d "
v- a " d to . d '""" u ind 'r ,av ' been the princi'-
relent" ' V ° tar ' e3 fr ° m that to the
nt Obsetvailtns on the Bostoi, Port-Bill. i=f r * -r
n b the late J. %uina, jun \ *'*■**
ia ammft it ■
treasury department,
*; ATOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN^AuVytW
l 0 r V e ° a " * A i P a(l><l durin S the present fef.
fion if Consrefs, so much of the ad entituled'
id " , making further provision for the fup
l- P° rt d ""J 5 crec ' i£| and redemption
r. L u P uM ! C Jeb t"-paffeJ the third day of
IV arch, oae thoiifand seven hundred and ninety-'
five, as bars from fettloment or allowance, *
i. Lm.fiv.ate,, commonly called Loan Office and
i- una! fswicment Certiacates and Indents of ln
lerells, is suspended until the twelfth day „
n June, which will be in the year one thousand seven'
i, nundrea and ninety nin*.
le r °" thc i; T'' (Utlo n ana fettleuient of the
-■ faui Certificate, and Indents of Imcreft, at the
r. rresAiry, thc Creditors will be entitled to receive
o Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stcckeq-ial
(1 to the amount of thc kid Indents and the arrcar
ages of intercft due cn their laid Certificates prior ,
_ to the firfl. day of January one thousand seven
c hundred and ninety one.
0 'fhattfce principal fumsof the laid Loan Office
and final settlement Certificate*, with the intercft
e »h« r e«n, firce the firft diy of January, one thou,
sand seven hui.dred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
> pay motif of interest and reimhurOnient of princi
pal, equal to the funis which would have been
f payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
1 fubferibed, pursuant to the Ads making provision
« for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
t Aims, equal to the market vilue of the remaining
r Stocky which would have been created by such
e fubferiptions asaforefaid, which market value will
y be determined by the Comptroller of tht-Treafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
e . Secretary of the Trtafury.
• june s.B iawtf
y General Poft-Office"
1 PROPOSALS for carrying the mails «f the
r United States on the following routes will
„ be received at this office until the loth day of
f September next inclusive.
r. From Pittfburg P. by Cannonfburg, Waffi
. ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills-
town to Xanes at thc mouth of Licking-creek.
9 on »J<e Mtifkingum, estimated 140 miles.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 2 p. m. and
r arrive at nes the next Monday by BP. M.
,• Returning—Leave Zanes every Tuesday at y
i A - v - and arrive at Pittfburg the next Fridav by
e 10 A. M. "
1 1. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
1 Crtek on the Mufkingum, by Chiiicothe and
e Maficy's to Mayfville in Kentucky ; eftiraatcd.
t 140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tucfilay at 5 A. m. and
1 arrive at Mayfville the next Friday by 10 A. M.
, Returning—Leave Mayfvi!le f-rcry Friday by
, Ip. m. and arrive at Zanesthe .xt Monday by
1
t of Ihe mails to commence on the
. firft dav of Nac ember next and continue until
, the firft day of Oa>.ber 1800. Payments will
» be made quarterly.
s The nfual penalties for delays and failures will
t be ftipulatcd in the contraiSl.
1 J°f e ph Habcrfoam,
C PK-i a, !• t , Po ft- M <>Jlcr General. '
Philadelphia. July ij, 1798. m&thlw
* HEALTH OFFICE.
r Philadelphia, iji May, 1798.
ExtraOl of an ail to alter and amend the Health
Laws 0 f this Commonwealth, passed 41b April
1798.
Sea. 8- A ND I>e * rHrther ens'Ssd by the au
-t X thorityaforefaid. Thar every house.
keeper within the city «f Philadelphia, the town
ihips of the Northern Liberties and Moyamsniing
and diftri.il of Southwark, within a mile of the li-*
mitsol the city, takag in boa.r lers arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place,", id ha
ving any bsardur in his or her family, who shall be
taken sick of any disease whatsoever, between the
lirft day of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
der thai! come to'lodge in lib or her house, fliali
. within 24 hours next alter the knowledga of such
sickness. make report at the Health.Office of the
name of such sick perfoß, thc time of bis or her ar
. rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,.
, and of the name and pl»ce of abode of°fuch ho;i(c
kceprr; whereupon the Phyflcian of the Health
> Office shall forthwith visit the patient, and report
. t0 the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
eare. that measures may be taken to prevent the
-1 fpleading of thoinfeaiou ; .-ad if any houftkeepep
(hall wglea to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and iT-all be thereof con
t vifled, m any court of criminal jurisdiction within
this Commonwealth uponindi&cnar tby verdiil
orco»filBon, he or she ifcall forfeit and pay a fine
■ to the use of the said hospital, not lcfc than twenty
: dollars, nor more than om hundred dollars, to l;'e
imposed at the discretion of the court, according t«
the of greater or lef» aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer
- law -? m _of theP#rtof Philadelphia
CJUTIOK
WHEREAS a certain perfor.fwiatlltd
from nat on tliefirit in(t. by giving
me inlieutliereofaforged check on the Bank;
1 of North America, anoteof that dare, drawn
; in mv favour by Mr. John Travis; and
. able in fix months, for three thousand four
, hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are delired not to re
ceive any transfer of it, as it will not be
paid by either the drawer ur endorser unlefc
reco*erul by Ihvv-.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
aupuft 6.
The Public are hereby informed^
1 did not mean to authorise Col. WIl-
X iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pay./
unVfa rfc.ivered by law, my note alluded t© in hi&,
aiurioii of tfce of Auj;uU, publilhcd in {be Ga
zette 01 thr [Jrnted States cf la'A evening. I fia
ccr:*ly lament hi* lo!s, and t«!d him I would d<y
all I could do continently \vi:h r.iy'crcdit to fer*e
I him. hwt wttvi no lui:lkt»
JGI;X TRAMS.
zug.uit 7 5