7*- .
stttt of A«n Philadelphia
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Chef,rut Street.
Number 1711.J
SALT.
3500 to 4000 bushels of large
grained SALT,
From St. Martin's on Hoard the ftip Spy, at the
Still House wharf—for f»le by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Straet.
rt-i uib imr
Will fail in a few days
For SarafinahinGeorgia For freight
ifc "lij* or passage apply aa above, or to the
Captain on board.
February a 7 'eedjt
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J ac °B Dehart, Majltr,
X3*£is4£ss-n av j n gg re;lt partofher cargo en
gaged—For freight apply to
Jejfe & Robert Wain.
February %(,
For Savannah,
The Jafl failing Ship
SWIFi JACKET,
(* r,l ?ul-r trader)
Patrick Gribbes,mafltr,
(WILL fail on the 10th inlt.
ice permitting) has handfnme accommodations
or paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the master on borrd, at fiickley'j wharf, above
Market-ltreet, or
iV* £3" J. Fraxier,
No. 95, South Front hreet.
February t. 4
1 ' —... .7, ,
£or Sale or Charter,
gooi/hope
carry about faoo barrels, and
isready totake in a cargo. For terms
fppJy to
Pragers Ss* Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who havs for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
Hum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win».
Nov-mher 7. dtf
Edward Dunant,
. No 14J, South Front-street,
Has still remaining of the Cargo of the Johanna,
from Malaga,
66 kegs Sun Raisins
91 Jars fine Bloom ditto
« hhds. } fu P ßrior Catalonia Wine
Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hoglheads and
quarter calks
And a few qr. calks fine old Colemenar Win*.
He km tdft, a few packages «J
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
Confiding of Humhoms, Ticktries, PatnaChintz,
Bandanna, Pullicar and Barhar Handkerchiefs,
Choppa Romals, black and coloured Persians, and
black Pepper.
£5" Wanted—A Male and Female
■SERVANT, of unexceptionable charaflers.
march I. ' *,«eod
At a Meeting of the President
. and Managers of the Delaware and Scau vlkijj.
Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
RefolveJ, That ten dollarson each of Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give pu. lic notice thereof agre«able
to law. ,
Extraflfrom the Minntes.
GEORGE WORtALI , Secretory.
AGREEABLE to a resolution o ihn Prefidifnt
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby requ red to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpe&ive shares on or before the ill of pril next,
to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February 18. lawtA
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thessth
inft- Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at WM. BI.ACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Ibliars, where check books are kept for register
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing
ttyi, No ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bafinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoMßting Bills and Notes of Hand, file of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
§
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hoglheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
FOR sale by
. - JCHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
W anted,
An aflive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
Yid do the business of the kftchen. Such a one
ill be allowed good wages, and no other needap
y.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway servant Girl, named j
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey '
Smith, and feniing her to North Front-llroet, No. I
45- She is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, withrt»und features, and black buftiy
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow
ders, as (he is luppofed to be secreted in houses of
ill fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19. eoaw
I IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEED! LY WILL BE PUBLISHtD,
(Price 15 Cents J
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
t or TUB CONDUCT or TBS BXECVTirt,
As publilhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figuature ef
SCIPIO,
In which thee ommercial warfare of France is
traced to the French failion iA this country
as its fonrce, and the motives of the opposition
to ths measures of the United States are exposed.
Fek. 8.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAT KVENING, MARCH 5, 1798
To be fold at Veridue,
» At the Coffee House, at 7 o'clock ,n Xb< eveniosr
on the s th of March next, *'
: Ship" JOHN,
jSSSemj&f , AS fl>e lies, and three Andiers
„ " ' 'T in E under the bow, cut aw»v af
ke Stfan l ded as te month ofC J^n
e rcck - Sl,e **» built ia Newbnryporc aikaat
, ve years ago, was coppered U£t futaiuer m Ham
burg, snd measures about 500 torn.
' a e / L, ° AT THI H»< Tiar,
: P a Ttion r r o g n ° w «*not yet got out her, fay,
4 boxes oF (hect Copper
70 b A °^ e " of window and hollow Glafj
1 ' of tke c " n cerned.
JOHN CONNELLY Co. Auttrs.
February ,8 _ A M
landing,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
ANO FOR lALI «y THE »T BSC KIBIK,
i 000 bags prime Suerar,
800 da. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece G«ods.
John Miller, 7un.
march 3 J .
I " t t K * ?rmo f. Co-paxtnerfliip between the lub-
L lcribert, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expire* this dav, and by muMai
consent wiH not be renewed- The dehts and con
tern, of :he fem- will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom al) those indebted to thepartnerfhip
are earnestly requeued ts make payment to, with,
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J lin .
ALEXANDER J. MIiLLER,
February 19
FOR-SALE, bt
John Miller, j(Jn.
N®. 8, Chtfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
ANONtIT WHICH
Gurrahs Mamaodiee
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda Coffaes
Guzzies Emertica
Blue Clotht Calicaes
Palamjoors Romall Handkerchief,
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna,
British Dry Goods,
Alio,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19
Alex• J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm *f
Alexander J..Miller Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia; whera '
they now have, and intend keeeping a general as. »
fcutment of India, Ctrman, Jrijb y French and Bri m \
iijb Mannfa&ures for sale, on advantageous termr 1
for eafc or a (hart credit. (
February 1, } t f I
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re- J
mains of the (hip India's last cargo from (
Calcutta, and will be fold low, I
7 Boxes of Umbrellas f
2 J Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine, '
of, the vintage of 1795. *
Mordeca't Lewis.
February 13 four
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON y LEWIS, <
No 115 South Front Strcek c
A quantity of Tannr's Oil, t
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
id and »d proof Brandy, j drawback. g
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries &c. &«.
Fel'. 9. rodtf
Landing this day, j
From on boasd th« ftliooner Two Friends, Dan
tel Crawley, Master,
Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE .BY
Qetrge Latimer & Son.
nrvemher 9. i
' Ross iff simson;-
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, and
A parcel of (hip building RE© CEDAR,
oa.* 7 . §_
James C. Samuel W. FUher,
at the r store,
Na.513, corner of Arch and Front street.
HAVE TOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, alfored
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto _
Ditto Pondioherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurraha
Bengal black Taffeties »
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests bed Hyson Tea
j Alfo—lsoo boxfs best London Window Glass, ..
| from Bby6,to 19 by 14— ind 15 hhds. Glass
| Ware affortad, which they will difpefj of cheaper j'
than any in the city. <
Kov 18 e '
Just Publilhed, t b '
And to be had at the Book-ftoras of Meflrs-Cos- t i,
son, Campbell, Younc and Oauxon, t1
in Philadelphia, {(
OBSERVATIONS a
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting or JKlious v |
Fevers. ej
To vthkb is annextd, 01
AN ABSTRACT of the op nions and praSiceof q,
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib- t r
iting intcrefling fait' and rsfleilion< relative to t J,
the Symrxbus IBncid.t, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in fever.il of the fesport q
towns of the United States of America.
bv WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fe'ow of the Philadelphia College of ! hyf cians,
snd Member of the American Philosophical So- ti
c;»ry. * cb - l ~*3 m J ">
For Sale,
• By Elliston -J John Perot,
A'. 41, S..H, W,Ur S.rnl,
London particular M .id * Wmc. m pip.s
cjuAk r caiis, 4 year* old lad fit fur ir:noc«ijt£ uL
g Inferior do.
A few b*le, Aliibad Codes
HanJkerchf-i.
t Sail C«a,aO, No i, t»«
A fewbsgs of Juniper Berriei
A parcel of Soal Leather,-aud ✓
A few boxes of Cfeina.
. march 3 tu&f4w
for sale; — ■
The Houle in Chefnut-ftreet,
NEXT door but one to the corner ol Fifth-ftreet.
occupied by the fubferiber. Its eligible fi'uation
i» well kmown—The rooms are fpaciuus and con
venient, and fini(b«d"in ahaadfome (lile—lt has
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
_ce Houfe-and rain water Cistern, and th;re is a
Pump of good water near the kitchee door.
For terms annly to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
»• _ §IW
TO LET, ~ ~
And may be entered on imrnediattij,
A good dry Store,
Three ft ories high, and in an excellent (land for
bnfuefj. Apply to
Thomas £sf Jofhva Fifber,
march t. $ No t, Dock-ltreeti
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, abort
ed to suit Weir India market
40 billheads Whiting
Zjoo bufiu.lt g -od House Coals
A*set— put UKOID.
4*o barrels prime Beef, 801 l on and Nc W.York
JO ba;reh Pork
l.?o hhds. Havaina Molafles
W'oolen Cloths }
Blaukete > afforled in package
Hard Ware J
Ravens Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bri;ifli, of rarious files
Black quart Bottles, in hampersof i groce each
A general assortment of Qoeens' Wre, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cafe
Baflcct fine Salt, in hoglheads
to* SALE BY
Tbos. is? John Ketland.
February i s ■ ?tIM
FOR SALE,
BY the subscribers, No. 11, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, fron Bengal,
Ctnfijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes JPunjum Clotht
■ Sanahi Guzaeydo.
I Humhunas Charconaa Dorca
Blye Cl. th Tanjibs
Chiatz and Calicoes Mulmtils
Mamondys Checks
Maharagonget Patna Hkf«.
Ginghams • Mulmu d«.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoea Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various eol.
Mock Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
50,000 lb. PEPPEU.
Willings & Frantis.
The Piece Geods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north welt corner of
Market and Fourth-ftreete.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafi Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
Landing
From on board the Snow Maria,from Copen
hagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
3<:o pieces Ravens Duik
150 pieces RufCa Sheeting
joo bolts RuiTia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHON'f £C Co.
IVk. have on Hand,
iftand id proof Bourdeaux Brapdy
4th procf Spanish ditto
New-E'.'gland Rum
London^ Particular mne p . pM
London Market > Csfl "
Old Claret in Cases
34 Wills. Coffee just arrived
Best Boston Beef in barrels
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon is do.
A small invoice of Rhode-lilajidSheefe
Sperraaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, z, j, Boston Sail Duck
Russia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Catch Hollow Glass Ware.
March 1. daw
The Comnnffion r rs
FOR carrying inte «ffe& th» TWF.NI Y-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits, and
Navigation, betwei-n His Catholic Majesty andths
United St atss of Am.rica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein canaerned—l hat in ordci
to turminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fuflained by the citizens of the United States, in
coniequence »f their VeffeiS :■ nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subjects of His Ca'helic Majel
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc.-,
that they are reedy to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and enc o'clock, da.ly) all
cemplaints and applications, authorized by ihe said
Article, during EieiuTtiN months, frem the day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as ceme btfore them, on
oath «r affirmation, touching the coin hints ill
qutftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they ihall think proper to require or admit.
£y Order of the Commiffio' ers,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commissioners OJfice, No.' 109, Mulberry
ft rent, Mai 17 tb, 179 7.
Feb. zB, *9B 'im
• 4 * Those Printers in the several States who pub/fe
ed the above advertisement lajl Spring, are reyuejleJ to
ie-pul'lipi it memo'lb, and fend their Mounts to P. L.
CONGRESS.
> HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FOREIGN INTERCOURSE.
TWESDAY— FEBRUARY 27.
f Coi:i» ..-d /rjm San dsf s '•«» ftr )
Mr. J. Wieliams (New-York) said that
though the fatigne from the long discussion
already had, on the amendment propufcd,
must be sensibly felt, yet, ss it was * qnef
tion of great magnitude because its conse
quences affefted the constitution of thecoun
try, by a new conflrudion of its refpeftive
1 powers ; he Aoped to he permitted to take
some view of the fubjed, and here he would
1 remark* when the amendment was firll pro
pofed,he had not then re3e&e4 as much up
on the doArine to which it led, as he had
finee done.
If it had been the objedl of the gentleman
who introduced the amendment, to bring
hack the fsrtiga inttrcourfe to the ground
on which it Hood in the year 1796, be woutd
undoubtedly have paiTed over the firll fe&i
---•n of the bill and mevedafubftituteforthe
third section, which would have contained
the new system he has advanced ; because
the firlji feiftion of the bill was the fame as
wasena&ed in the year 179 c, and re-enaft
cd by every new Congreli fincc that time.
And the like salaries were to be continued
as given in the year 1790.
But that gentleman has since said, he in
tended to do away all the foreign intercourse
and thereby vesta power inthis,houfe, '.vhicb
the people by the conftitutioa has f&ctd in
another branch of the legislature ; which
principle, said Mr Williams, once fined in »
this house, would render the present confti
tutioa inactive ; and if the mover of the a
mendment had intended thereby to save ex
pence (which was a desirable objeA) he
would have moved to lefTen the present sala
ries, but inflead »f doing this, the gentle
man ha* brought forward a proportion,
which tho' in a different garb, is the fame
in substance, as had been difcuflcd about
two years since for fix or seven weeks—at
the last fefEoa about two or three weeks, and
now about four or five weeks more. Is this
the mode said he, for gentleman to save es
sences in government ? No 1 th* expeaces
incurred by the present debate, amounted
to more than it was contemplated to save.
He would a(k, how came this propofitiou
to be now brought forward i Was it to mar
the harmony of that house, at a period
when unanimity of sentiment and cool deli
beration were lo much wanted. That gen
tleman's goo4 t fenfe must have led him to :
suppose that the proposition would as ufwal
have drawn fcrth a warm debate ; and vio- '
lence in debate en the one fide would always !
induce violence on the other, and coafe- ;
quently irritate the party spirit so prevalent, •
the greatest curse which could happen to a j 1
nation, more especially at the present crisis
of our affairs, and had a tendency to ef- ,
trange the minds of the people from the |
government which they had set up. He ! 1
was sorry to fee hi» friend from Georgia j
(Mr. Baldwin) the other day had de- ! -
parted from his usual cool deliberation and j 1
had wrought up his mind to an extremity,in i 1
which he drew inferences from the Prefi- ' ,
dent's speech in the year 1790, which on a j
re-consideration he would find were no way ) ]
applicable to the doctrine he had endeavour* \
ed to maintain. (Here Mr. Williams read I
that part of the President's speech alluded
to, and animadverted op Mr. Baldwin's ob
servations,) But that gentleman had said
he was for doing away hostility from among 1
the different branches of government and
cultivating harmony, notwithstanding which '
in the next breath he said he would vote for 1
the amendment. He would alk that gentle- 1
man what harmony could be expected from 1
such proceedings i the Prufident nominated j
a person as minister, agreeably to the con- i
ftitution, the Senate concur, and we refufe i
to appropriate, Mr. W. said he did not
believe gentlemen sincere when they advan- j
ced this doftrine, and if they were, they
had not reflected where it would lead them.
If the check was in that house which was
contended for, the Senate would have the '
fame check, and this would permit the Se- I
nate and execntivc to fead frum this house j
all members who could not from their pri
vate fortunes defray theii own expcnces and
support their families ; Or would the gentle- j
men who were advocates for this doCfrine, !
have the members of this honfe like those in
the House of Commons in England, per
sons of great interell and depending on pa
tronage. But, said he, I (hall be told that
the members of the legislature have too high
'wages. This he said was admitted, as he
thought, at the time the wages were fixed
by the firft Congress, twice the sum neces
sary was allowed, but the high prices of ar
ticles finee had brought it right, and when
the articles came down to the old Harvard,
he was persuaded the wages would be lefTen
ed accordingly. But the very reason why
Congress had erred on the one fide wa* a
good argument why they might err on the
other, especially when they had an objeil
in view, he thought that the constitution
had provided that a reasonable compensation
should be allowed, so as the mediocrity of
the people might lend such as they pleased,
but the do&rine contended for would cause
the republican principles contemplated by
the constitution to be done away, and an a -
riftocracy introduced. Bcfides it would do
away the treaty making power, veiled by
the constitution in the Prelident and Senate
and give the sole power tn. the Horse of f
representatives. For inftaoce, the Prefi- 1
dent, the other day, nominated three com.
mi'fiioners to hald a treaty with the Indians,
>• the fenatc concurred, :.od the appointment
was made* The executive sent to this lioufe
the proceedings, and required an appreci
ation. But fuppofc, (aid be, we had dif.
agreed, and made no appropriation, could
the treaty be Md No y foin the eafcthc
' lad feffioti, the exeemivc informed us that
' he wati about to fend a miuiller to Berlin j
> we made the appropriation ; a minider was
appointed, and sent. And now an aft is tg
be passed t«t recall him. He would put the
quedion more home, and arte if the choice
had fallen on one of those who advocated
' the amendment, and accepted the appoint
-1 ment, arranged his affairs, and gone to the
place affignrd him, but in tlx or seven month*
thereafter, was recalled ; what would he
fay? Would hejuflify such proceedings?
Said he, the fecuricy of government cost-
Allg in a liable and uniform cenduft, then
those who are to be ruled by the laws would
know how to aft.
The gentleman (Mr. Nicholas) had said,
he _was devoted to a republican form. of
government 5 but said Mr. W. they had
but one criterian to form their judgment
by ; that was contained in the b«#ok of trutft
" b *h<> r Ivor It yeJhall intte them." How
can it be fnppofed that gentlemrn are sin
cere when they talk of feeble minoritiej be
ing necessary in eleftive governments, when
the majnrty are to mle i In a A/n<W won
arehy, feeble minorities might be servicea
ble to a certain degree : but feeble minorities
»o a-* elective pr.vernment, are as a <p.rk
of fire in a building, which if not checked
would cob fume the whole fabric,. How
had thisfpark been checked of late in our
government ? By the firmnefs of the Prefi.
dent aided by the yeomanry of the country,
who are the mod numerous part of the
community j and it is to he hoped, th«
mod virtuous. They are the mod enlight.
ened of any nation ob earth as to matters of
government.
Much had been said, relative to the Pr*»
fidenPs appointing officers of his own po«
litical opinion. He thought the executive
would not aft confidently in cale he ap.
pointed any officers of'the heads of de
partments or diplomatic agents not of hit
political opinion ; there would be a contin*
ual jargon; indead of harmony so essential.
ly necessary in the different officers who had
to coofult on the necessary meafiires to bs
pursued, as the good book fays, " a house
divided againd itfelf cannot dand. " H C
would afl< if it wotild be prudent for tlvf
! executive to chufe a man who* had been al»
ways opposed to commerce, to be sent to •
foreign nation to negociate and contend for
our commercial interedt ?-This house adopt*
this very principle. A member rises lit hi*
place and moves a resolution containing cer.
tam principles he wi£hes to have adopted*
The house agrees to the resolution j a cons*
mittee is appointed to detail the principle f
btit is this committee composed of members
who are opposed ti the principle of tht
resolution ? The executive he believed,
went no further in the appointment of those
of his political opinions, as the other day
he had made an appointment to a confidera.
ble trust of a gentleman not of hit poljci.
cal opinion.
His colleague (Mr. Havens) had just
been quoting precedents from the English
conditution , he would aflc if that confti.
tution was like the conditution we were un»
der > No. The cos flit »t ion of England
was made up of usages, cudoms, &c. ours
was written, and therefore the precedents
would not apply, The house of commons
in England had a right to originate all mo
ney bills ; the house of lords had no right
to alter or ataiend. But was this the cafe
with ourfenate ? The senate under our eon
ftitution has a right to alter, amend or re.
jest. That gentleman had said (hat money
had been made use of, in opposition to the
sense of this
to intimate that we contend that all mult
agree to the principles of legislation adopt,
ed by the executive ; and he instanced the
cafe of the frigates ; but said Mr, W. thia
was an unfortunate inference of His colleagn#
because the legifiature had reduced the fri
gates from fix In three, and he believed thit
was not even the wish of the executive, and
he was confident that no money had been
expended, but what had been appropriated*
As to the executive patronage, said Mr. W.
in England the king has the disposal of all
offices, and he is not responsible. Here it
is otherwise { the President is elffted for
four years, at the end of which he returns
to the people and is impeachable. Whca
there are more candidates, than one for an
office, the disappointed will generally be
opposed to the re-eleftion of the President,
and may make iotered againd it by hit
friends, and the one that is appointed will
seldom trouble himfelf about it. He men
tioned a cafe in the date of New-York,
whose conditution relative to the appvint.
ment of officers was ftmilar to that of the
United States, It was a cafe refpefting
the appointmenr of a ft-.riff, the one dis
appointed, made great interest againd the
governor's eleftion, while the man who ob.
tained the appointment, had been inaftive,
and the gov(£nor had nearly lod his eleftion;
and he was persuaded the power of the
President to nominate, would always ope.
rate againd his influence.
Gentlemen to support their position, that
no foreign miniders are wanted, fay we
ought to have no conneftionjwith Europe,
only as buyers and venders of their ma no*
faitures, if this was all we had to do, said
Mr. "VVilliarta», we wanted 00 miqidcrt nmr
IVeLim XIII.te si.l*. He was not much acquainted f.th p
< 1 nsr erccj he was 3 farmer, but he had t -'ad 1
\ Qftu ifling on that fnbjrct and believed tnat a
nmvuirtce was to a certain degree n<?df!T<irT; 1
it been extended too far, but the 1
merchants knew we could not give rhem c
i*c -f.ary pr'teiSHon, andconfequently muil '
rill< their vessels and caries. This it is pre- j
fumed they will do, while they find it ben- '
efie- it!, and this was evidently the cafe, be- |
cau>e* we are now foppofed to be the second
eomnercial nationin the world. And it ap
peared to him that commerce was the hand
maid of agriculture ; and the greater the
competition in our market* between the fo
reign merchants and our own, the bet
ter market, and greater demand for the pro
duce of our country. Thus the farmer will
obtain a higher price and quicker sale for
fc'hat he has to dispose of, but on the other
hand, if there was no competition in ottr
markets, the farmer must fell at a price our
merchants may (in a combination) please to
give, or (lore his articles until the (hip own
er will please to carry it away.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Ni
cholas) had said, that the executive power
growing out of the diplomatic department,
would cause war, ruin and deftru&iop; this
said Mr. W. might happen, if the majori
ty of our people (hould become insane, and
chufc men to fill offices, whofedetermination
it was to ruin the country. The executive
could nut do it alone, because the advice and
consent of the Senate was required, and the
majority of this house must agree to it, be
cause it is to be presumed that no greater
salaries would be given than were necessary.
Beside*, the constitution provides for an
impeachment, and at the end of four years
the executive returns to the people; there is
another provision in the constitution, that
is, the people can amend it and take from
the executive what power they please, thus
we find the state that gentleman comes from
sent out two years ago, certain amendments
3nd dt this tin* the measure is renewed.—
The people not think prudent to adopt
tliem two yeas since ; this (hews, however,
the-Legiflature of the state from whence
a number of the advocates for these new doc J
trines come, ido not think the power con
tended for is in this house, or they would
not wi(h an amendment to the conftitutios.
Mr. W. said, it was prudent for the people
to watch the »ifficers of govcrnireut, but
not be too jealous so as to destroy the eonfi
denee reposed in them.
The gert.Vman from Virginia (Mr Ni
cholas) said that commerce was partial to
Great Britain; if so, 1 id Mr. W. why is
liyt something, brought forward to restrain
it? or did g> ntlemen suppose it would be
proper to restrain them; he believed it would
be an improper thing, he had always under
fiood it v.-a. berf to let commerce regulate
nfe'lf. He would aflc that gentleman what
ivuuld his cenftituents in Virginfa have said,
if Congress had prevented them , from felling
horleo to the Englilh about two yenrs ago,
notwithstanding. they were so frenchifi. d,yet
they fold the huTes to the English, because
they receivf d a greater price for them. A
gain, why are those gentlemen dressed with
Engiilh.manufactures? what would they fay
if they' were prevented from purchasing
thena ? Hence, fcid he, the gtntlemen (hould
not prevent him from felling the produce of
his farm to those who would give the most
for it, and like them purchase the Englift
manufactures, becaufethey were the belt and
cheapest.
Gentlemen fay, the constitution provides
for the appointment of ministers by the Pre
sident; but only gives the power parti
ally, because, fay they, their falari«s were
to be fixed by Congress. Here said he was
the check, the conftitrftional check, (to
nvit) this house (hall fay what was a reasona
ble compenfatioii for the officers fa appoint
ed.
When the general convention met to form
the present constitution, said Mr. W. no
doubt but they had a view to all the differ
ent constitutions then extant, many difficul
ties arose; at length an agreement was made
between the great and small states, that the
latter Ihould have an equal representation in
the Senate, which conftitiited one branch of
the Legislature, and advice and consent were
to be given by a quoram of this body to the
nomination of all officer; by the Prefide'nt,
who by the nature of his office would have
the means of information from foteigj) pow
erj. Thus the nomination of ministers -
where to be sent—and of what grade, was
veiled in the President. So in the treaty
making pouWr, this body being composed
of an equal number, and power, from each
(late, in which the small states retained their
sovereignty, and notwithstanding this, yet
so careful was the convention, of this great
power, that two thirds of this body was t©
-agree to all treaties before they became the
supreme laws of the land. Yet some of the
members here, representing small states, are
for giving up this sovereignty which was so
Itrenuoufly contended for in the convention,
and solemnly agreed to; and take the pow
er front the Executive and Senate by a new
doctrine, which if once obtained it would
give a power to the representatives of four
states to control at their will and pleasure,
the remaining twelve states. This, said he,
was evident, because the states of Virginia, j
.North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Massachu
setts had more members in that house than
the other twelve states. Was this power in
this house as contended for by some, it would
deprive the Executive and Senate of the
appointment of diplomatic officers., or mak
ing treaties. For instance said he, the gen
tleman (Mr. Nicholas) had said he was for
doing away all the foreign intercoutfe. Let
us take it for granted that this was the cafe,
and that we bad no foreign minister, and no
one was to be appointed previous to an ap
propriation-—Congrtfs adjourn —and a fliort
•time thereafter, the Trench dire&ory (hould
Kave come to their senses, they fend to our
government that they wouM do us justice,
j pay for the depredations on our commerce,
discharge the debts due to our cititen.'f and
• would eutcr into a new treaty with us upon
principles of vtcfprocit?. Would not this In
l-e a desirable objcft to tre3t with them, tor pi
although* by the hw» of nations we are not e>
holden to any treaty at this time, becauie, c;
when two nations enter into a treaty, and di
one breaks a part thereof, the other is not u
bound: yet it was a desirable object to be at g
peace*ith all nations. In this cafe, how U
would the Executive a&? He mull call con- ii
grefs together; this would take much time w
and be attended with great txpence; yet n
this must be done. Wheu Congress comes t.
together they are informed of the bufineis, a
but fupp«fe a majority are opposed to a trea- a
ty being entered into with that nation, and ]
will not agree to an appropriation —will not a
this prevent a treaty being made? and will [
ft tiot be in the power of four Hates to con- v
tr<A the other twelve states? Befidethis, nip
pofing the majority fay we will appropriate c
but it (hall be provided such a person and 1
such grade. Let the gentlemen have the j
power they contend for this day, and they
would not agiee among themselves, much <
more the whole house, for fays the mover,
(Mr. Nicholas) lam for a minister plenipo- t
tentiary to France and England, a minister j
"resident to Holland, Portugal and Madrid,
fays another gentleman (Mr. Claiborne)
from Teneffee, the mover will agree for a
minister plenipotentiary to Spain (by the by •
how in unison those gentleman are) bnt
another member, a minister resident will do
at Spaiß. So that by the gentlemen's own I
declaration, we could not expett any thing
to be d«ne, though their system was adopt
ed. It would be attended with an infinity j
of expences and delay, and in the end wonld.
reduce our republican system, by introduc
ing an arifiocracy, which would pave the
way to absolute tyranny. To prove that
the conftitntion would be rendered ina&ive,
he would only instance a cafe in the legisla
ture of New-York, in 1789. The two
branches of the legislature, were o-f differ
ent political opinions, the one would resolve
to appoint two characters, to reprcfent that
state in the Senate of theUoited States, but
the other branch would n»t concur, they
would resolve to appoint two others of a
different political opininn. The confeqtience
was, that no appointment took place until
after a subsequent ele&ion, at which time
both branches were of one political opinion.
Hence, if the ®ther states in the union had
beeH in a like situation, thp constitution of
the United States would not have gone in
to operation.
The genjleraan f r «m Virginia (Mr. Ni
cholas) and others had contended that the
different branches of onr government had a
chepk on each other, and they had inftane
ed a law passed relative to the judiciary, who
deemed the law nnconftitutional and did not
act thtreon. But by this had they a check
on the legislature? No. They did not a£t;
and so in the cafe, when the call was made
two years ago on the Executive for some pa
pers relative to a treaty did not the Exec
utive refufe them? why? becaufe'faid he,
you have no eonftitutiooal right to them.—
Thus w«■ find that each; body moves within
its refpeftive orbit So if a is called for
we appropriate what is deemed reasonable.
The mover of the amendment dwelt much
on the dobate, had on the palling the tirft
foreign intercourse bill, in the year 1790;
fut he did not ftat« both fides of the quef
rion. Some of the debates werethe fame
as those used oh a late occasion, especially
the one by a gentleman from South Caroli
na (Mr. W. Smith) all the evidence howe
ver, we had on this fuhje& was, that the
law was passed, and had continued to be re
enafted by every new Congress since, it was .
something finguJar that this nevJ discovery
had not been made before now.
Much had been said relative to a minister
being sent to Berlin | the Preiident in his
speech at the lad session said, *! It was a nat
Viral policy for a nation that studies to be
neutral, to consult with other nations, en
gaged in the fame ftudiet and pursuits; 'at
the fame tiifce that meafuresought to be pur
sued with this view, our treatiss with Prus
sia aHd Sweden, one of which is expired,
and the other near expiring, might be re
newed." This, among other fubje&s i»as
then referred to a committee, and an appro
priation made without debate or division,
this, said he, was the time to have made the
opposition. But it was said that a minister
was not wanted at Berlin. He believed if
gentlemen would reflect that minister
was not only appointed to Berlin, but also
to Sweden. Stockholm was not far dis
tant from Berlin. aHd one minister had been
sent to renew the treaties with Woth these
nations. What had been dene he knew not
as there were -no documents before them ;
but he thought it bad policy to rccal him,
if it was within their province until they
were informed the treaties were renewed—
Decaufe it would cost them 9000 dollars
►nort as an outfit, in cafe he was recalled be
fore the business was done. Beside, Berlin
was a place to obtain much commercial and
political information, so necessary at this
time both for our government, as well as our
othtr ministers at foreign courts.
He would not have said any thing rela
tive to the minister lately near the republic
of France, had it not been for two.expressi
ons which had fell from a gentleman (Mr.
Nicholas) the #ne was that, that minister
had been made a facrifice of, and the other,
that in that gentleman's opinion, peaee
with the French republic might have been
secured, but the executive had done all in
their power to cast it from us. With ref
pe6t to the firft, said Mi . W. if that Mi
■ nitter had been made a facrifice of, it muff
have been occasioned by his own conduit,
t for said that gentleman, another had been
, applied to, but expecting to be himfelf fa.
> crificcd would nc* accept. How came this
- gentleman to accept, said Mr. W. or had he
t not the discernment of him who refufed ;
1 hut as he did accept he ought so to have
r conducted, as to have merited the thanks,
, not the difplcafure of his country. If it
', was so, he was persuaded it had arifea from
d j tranfaftions. .
n I The ether exprtffion was—« the execu-
J
tive r.ad printed a prace"—t"Hls lie sup- j <tr
posed mull have been in consequence <jt the j in
executive's «ij*pftfing measures which were , thi
calculated to disturb the peace and indepen- pel
deuce of this country. If we look around pr«
us, laid Mr. W. and had time to investi
gate this fubjed, it would be easily shewn, pr
that tile executive had aded right in not
fufFeiing this country to be drawn into a m
I war with any nation ; and if we mull have ia
I 11 war (which G6d forbid) I hopt it will be ,
for refuting to depart from this principle ; in
and whoever will impartially trace the tranf- I e_
aftions of our government, refpeding the |
proceedings of the French nation and their j ec
agents will find that it has refpeded and ?-f
preftrved a uniform system of friend/hip, ul
which jullice to others, left u« free to per- es
fcrfln. The, predicament of a neutral nati- ■"
ou is peculiir and delicate, and imminently c '
so while it defends itfelf against charges of '
partiality from one of the warring powers, (7<
! leatt it fltould fecm to palliate the raifdoings'
of another.
Let us view for a moment, said Mr. W. f f
the tranfadions of an agent from that Re- c<
public, and previous to his being acknow- t)
ledg.ed as such—his tranfadions which mud ti
be understood the ads of his government. *
Were they not caleulatedtoinvolveusin war
abroad, aud discord and anarchy at home ? tl
And had not his ads and those of hiscon l k
federates been counteraded, we must long ft
finee been involved in a distressing war.—
I ask, said he, what insults have been borne Cl
with from sentiments of regard to that na- ai
tion ! Because the eftablilhed laws of our f<
land would not permit the executive at all '
times to go the full length of what the re- n
prcfentatives of the French republic wi(hed, h
it was to be etfpeded they would not as- o
cribe the omifiiou to any wait of cordiality ri
or friendfhip to that nation, but to the fovr- "
re'gnty of the'law. Hence because the ex- I
ecutive continued ftedfaft, in the principles "
of neutrality deeming that the interest of his 1
country, and using his endeavours and pre- t;
venting our citizens _frw« embruirg their, y
hands in the blood of one nation, tp gratify
the hatrel, or serve the interest of another, a
This drev forth an appeal from the French f
minister t> the people, and heiice we may v
date the accumulated difficulties we have k
experiencd, are now labouring under, t
Notwithtknding all these iufults, the res- f
ped and tfteem for that cstion, and to (hew c
them how nuch we refpeded their endeavors «
for liberty disregarding the insults of their s
. agents, bah government and citizens, to r
prevent then from starving,' hastened to fop- 1
ply thera with provisions, and anticipated t
. the paymejt of all the debts which we con- <
i traded witi them during our -evolution. f
But the jppeal to the people and other f
tranfadion of their agent, created a party i
; against th: executive of ffty times the <
■ strength that the !«» chfTes mentioned by '
(Mr. Nicholas) who hi said were in favor of
. executive measures But before he went i
, into a refutation of that gentleman's argu- ]
. ments let us, said Mr. W.
i attend a !i-tle to what this facrificed minis- <
• ter has dene, or rather what he has not '
done I j(k, said he, what has been <
i for injnries on our commerce under the au- j
thorityof the French government, andtheir 1
I agents longbtfore the treaty complaiaed of? 1
Of the spoliations and mal-treatment of our 1
• vtffells by the French ships of war and pri- 1
■ vateers—a did re (Tod and continued embargo 1
. in 1793 and '94 at Bourdepux—the non- 1
payment of bills, &c. drawn by the colo- 1
nial adminitlrat/ons in the Weft-Indies—the
seizures or forced sales of cargoes and ap- ■
( _plying them to their own use, without ma
• kmg fatisfadory compensation—the non- 1
performance of contrads made by their a
gents for supplies—the condemnation of our
i ve flels and cargoes incompatible with the '
treaties between them and us ? How many '
vefl'els Jhave they saptured, cargoes con
demned ! tlo! freight and demurage have
been decre<dto be paid by the committee !
of fafety. has any thing been paid ?
How many millions value of property have
they taken from our citizens without justice
and without compcnfation ! What then has
1 this facrificed minister done ? I wish gen
tlemen woild inform us what.lervices he
, has rendered his employers. Another gen
tleman fron Virginia (Mr. Brent) has al
■ ledged that we were indebted to this minis
ter for the peace we 7 enjoyed. This -was a
kind of peace however by no means agree
able: it appeared like a man attacking a
nother uuaimed and takipg all from him,
but declaring he wished to be in peace, tho'
he must have what he wanted, and what'hc
could get.' "'
It had been observed by a gentleman
(Mr. Nicholas) thathe was sorry this min
ister had laid- before the public all the offi
■ cial document# which had palled between
i him and the two governments. Mr. W.
said, he btlfeved that minister and'his friends
would indeed regret it before the citiceD3
I had done with it. That minister's book,
i and the remarks it had eXcitsd and would
excite, would be read and duly considered.
The people are the proper tribunal : give
- them time for refledion and they will always,
: judge right. That gentleman (Mr. Nicho
- las) thus changed his ground and fays hi
. was sorry that apart of it was"m..de known,
r Why not the whole ? It was, said Mr. W.
, because of the bftach of trust it discloses.
e Would the gentleman have only the fair and
n delusive portion of it publidicd, arid the dark
n and treacherous parts concealed ? How
.- cotild the people judge ? THey could not
i- judg? without having both fides. Surely
(I that £enllemaa was for* call of the papers
jon a similar occasion ; why not give the
n ! people every information now ? Full and
i- ! fair disclosures to the people will always lead
is 1 them to corred and honed opinions.
Ie 1 1 hat gentleman (Mr. Nicholas) had been
; preaching to the people day after day for
re j lome time ; he began about two years ago,
s, j But were Iby my preaching to leflen my
it hearerg, I (hould be for changing my doc
m trine. That gentleman began with $3 fol
lowers, who are now reduced 1045. I hope
a- the gentlemjn will continue his public in
(IruSlon, f-f it has
in these two years past. All IKg *
tkr Us of precious time, and a c . 1
I hop, »» ;
proportion to his number of hearers.
Mr. W. had taken a (hort view of the ha*
proceedings of our late minister at Pans, bufi
He woulcfa(k the indulgence of the com- ftou
mittee, to make a few obfe.vat.ons on what ber ]
had been done by our min.fte. at London. ber.
Here the profpeft brightens. Eminent IV
' in talents attention and fidelity, the inter
| rftsof his country have flounlhed in his hand, had
; When his aid is requested by those concern- the
ed in claims, it is instantly, and! effedually pay
afforded ; not by the,"cold and distant msdi- .n tl
um of formal letters ;he applies to the judg- how
es in ptrfon, is heard and justice ts- obtained. ■ He
A- recent instance of his. interference, pro- wer<
cured f«r a house in this city,' upwards of with
12,000 dollars. His demands and exertions the
contributed greatly to procure an ad of the the
Br.'tKh parliament, appropriating 800,0001. coiij
sterling, for fatisfying the claims of neutrals, <
for spoliations on thefr commerce. Our grel
country justly exults in Tier employment of n>g
this illultrious citizen. A sickening con- con,
traft is found in the comparifo*. of him to c
with that before alluded to. ! r
Again, our minister there, feeing that lein
the court of admiralty procrastinated and of .
kept adjourning ; by his attention wid eon-, war
ftant application to the lords in commission hop
for appeals, has obtained an order that the cau
court /hould pofiitively fit in November lalt, gen
and continue to heai and determiae the cau- the
fes at they lay on the docket. The above ; nnf
x 2,000 dollars, thongh a clear cafe, had it our
not been for the minister, would not have wei
been fettled for a long time. This is for wer
one house : no doubt but that others have feai
received from the fame source ; hence we , the
may with propriety fay that our minister at cou
London alone, has been the means of fav- wo:
ing to the citizens of this country, more reir
than all the diplomatic expence ; and altho' ert]
this money does not go into the treasury, m:j
yet iffeddt wealth to the Union. are
For myfeif, said Mr. W. were I a iked a$ fori
a farmer refpeding the life t'sere was for ly 1
fereign ministers, I would answer that they ouj
were of little use, and the expence might du<
be saved } but whea he considered, that ver
these regulations would have a tendency to cor
promote commerce and thereby create a Th
competition in our markets, in the sale of ma
our agricultural produdions, and the far- ter
mer as w«ll as those concerned in the fi(he- '
ries, -would gain in their prices of what they "
had to dispose of, he was led to believe,
that commercial regulation*, to a certain t [ a
extent, were necessary. But it had been
said that consuls would answer all these pur- kn
poles; he did not know, nor had he read Re
of much refped being paid them in any e <l
country, excepting where such country had
• fadqries. - we
f The Britifli had a fadory at Peter(b«rgh, j ie
t in Russia, in Lilkon, at Smyrna and Alep- w<
. po, and he believed at Leghorn ; in these op
. places, the confnls are considered as men tir
. of confeqt?ence, and no British fubjed can r . e
t be arretted for a Crime, until he is tried and •
, condemned by the consul, who ads as a -j-,-,
. judge, and'if found guilty, he is then de- ftj,
r livered over to the officers of justice of the Fi
? country. We have no fadories abioad, and w
r our cenfuls are chiefly feleded from 3- ed
- meng the merchants whose chief aim in ac
j cepting the appointmeht is to promote their
own interest as ipCTchants. And if th<fe"
. men were obliged to dance attendance on ()l
f account of business to the different fecreta- te
. ries of state in the European courts, they a\
. would lose their time and business, and of E 1
, eourfe must receive salaries. It will be ad
_ mitted, that their salaries would not be so
r great as that of a minister, but it must be
e remarked also, in the foreign coprts of Ell- c
j rope, where etiquette is considered as ne- ill
. ceffary, ar.d frpm custom, is become essen- cj
e tial: what a minister could effed at oneau- "
- ' dience withtlie minister, a consul or consul- u
" r 1 W
? general, would have to attend ar fend to
» the minister fifty times, before he could gain t j
» admittance, and complete. Tf said he, no L ,,
s minister was kept at a court, and the bufi- ti
- ness was to be tranfaded by a merchant as a |!1
e consul, after having travelled some distance
. perhaps, he must lose much time merely
. in the parade of attending levees of the so
vereign, his ministers and different fecreta- p,
a ries of state ; asalfo the parties of the dif- t t
ferent foreign ministers, in Order to gain the p
. countenasces of some of thfin to assist and
f facilitate his rntercourfe with :he prime inin
ifter of the court at which he resides as con- _
c ful. It was true the British consuls at El- "
feneur, at Dantzwi k and Hamburgh were e
n of importance, and refpeded, but what Si
made the consul at Elfeneur of importance ;i
i- was, his superior incami as consul, and the "
n high stile he was able tp 4 live in. For the jl
gopfular office at Elfencuh from his com- r
|« miffiutu on advances of paying the toll fees j
13 of the Baltic, and his consular fignatum t
; to their certificates was considered as an in- (<
d caiie of "i 2,0001. fter. per annum—and this f
1. sum was more than our foieign ministers
re had, previous to the commissioners feat to
rs, France : but as long as the European min- (
1 .ifters are sent here, the ballance is in our j
ie favor ; as they ekpend more in this eoyn- j
n. try,' than our ministers are enabled to do a- j
J. broad.
8 . Here Mr. W. said, -he would fit down, 1
,d was it not for some observations which fell (
k from tlie gentleman who moved t v is amend- • |
,w ment (Mr. Nicholas) refpeding the origin ; .
ot of party, who, he said, had thrown the 1
ly present existing influence into the hands of
rs the executive, and were the means of pur '
he suing it. To prove this, that gei#!eman j
nd had adverted to the funding the domestic J t
ad debt, which he said, was probably done to ,
produce a party in States, who j ;
en would support the executive. This ad,
or I Mr. W. observed, was passed on the 4th
;o, Anguft, 1790, at a when nine tenths
ny of the evidences of the domestic debt were
>c- in the hands of the fpcculators. But what
ol- had the executive to do with it ? If, said,,
ipe Mr. W. the executive had intended that i
in- funding the dorajftis debt would have eoo-
j tributed to IhY influence, an wasfo dif.
j-fofed, tlit executive would i~.t have canf
ed the debt to be funded, so as to take it
' out of thi hands of the many, to be put
l in the hands of a few, as that gentlemaa
had said ; but would so have arranged that
bufmefs, as that the debt when funded,
(hould have remained with the grcateft num
ber poflible, b'ccaufs the greater ttie cum
ber, the more the?influence.
Mr. W. said he was as much opposed to
the funding system as that gentleman, nor
had he ever any thing to do with it ; but a*
the faith of the nation was pledged for the
payment we were bound by honor to do it
in the bed manner we could. He believed,
however, the executive had no hand in it.
He was convinced that at that time there
• ' were great speculations on all fide*, forte
wiftied for the funding system, others for
i the Penobfcotfexpedition, and the .building
■ the frigate in S. Carotua, nuthorifed by
! congrels to be paid for by the United States
• —some wanted the permanent feat of con
- grefs" where it was fixed ; and others agree
s iiirr to it to have a temporary rtfidence of
. congress here ; but what had the executive
i to do in all these matters ? This Mr. W.
! said he knew was done—New-York loft the
t ' residence of congress, and in the fettlemenfc
1 of accounts that state was charged with up
- wards of two millions unjustly, which he
1 hoped would never again be called for, be
e eaufe it was not due. The next class that
, gentleman took notice of which added to
. the influence of the executive was, thole
e unfortunate persons whp wrrt opposed to
t our revolution. These people, said Mr. VI .
e ! were men of different classes, some of them
r were opposed from principle and others frora
e fear and to gain favor. But at the elofe of
e , the war, they were moftiy driven from our
t country, and pcrhnps there was never a
- worse policy adopted. If we had let then\
e remain, as they were generally men of P'"P*
»' ; erty who were thus ordered away, our debts
, might have been much lelfensd, and as they
are mostly allowed to come baek, the mu
s fortune is that the money they had was near
r ly exhausted previous to their return. But
y ought those to be arraigned for their con
t dust, because they wish to support the go
t I vernment under which they live* No— he
0 conceived they were to be commended
a Their supporting government in a peaceful
if manner was * valuable trait in their charac
r- ter.
Mr. W. said at those twa classes of men, were
„ b r ought into view by that gentleman, as the
1 fupporteri of the executive power, he would
bep the indulgence to mention some of those
n classes, who have been the oppofers.
" When the constitution, said he, was firft made
r- known, it of course eßgroffed the public mind,
id Reason, prejudice, and paflion, equally prompt
iy ed the difcufiion of it —and the citizens were
j nearly divided for, and against it. i hn» ft
went into operation. In its organization £j 1 * re
were numbers of candidates to fill the offices,
' hence many were disappointed* some of which
P" we have reason to believe have continued their
fe opposition in cenfequence thereof to the present
en time. In addition to this, whin the irench
an revolution commenced, and because the execu
j tive maintained a uniform system ot neutrality #
' and would not fuffer this country to be drawn
a from the full udt of prosperity, upon the
' c ~ shadows arad miseries of war, on the part of
be France, how many of our citizens were there
rid who endeavoured' to leflen the well earn
-3u ed confidence c\f the executive, ana render
IC ..| his adminift-ation unpopular; our youth fired
.* with ambition to enter into the French service,
J. r and urged,i-otonly by those of the party,but a If©
those who by misfortune or luxurious habits had
on outlived their fortune, as well a*others who for in
ta- rereft'wereanxioustohavethiscoHntry engaged in
ey awar. In additiontothofe,£ow many toadbeenen
of by the French agent, and commiffionedto
id- go sgainft a nation with whom we were at
r peace, as well as those engaged in fitting out
*° privateers. Add those who were engaged »« a
I lucrative commerce with the inhabitants of St.
'U- Domingo, and who were checked by the Brit
ie- ;(h, who would not fuffer the commerce to be
carr edonin the manner not permitted by France
lU . n a time of peace. And to crown the whole,
i what party was created when the proclamation
was inued relative to the neutrality ? And altho
this was approved of by men of the firft abili
un ties, and by those who are 4ooked up to by the
no advocates of the amendment, but who are in
ifi the opposition to the executive, yet it created
5 a innumerable opponents to the executive, be
.ce cause private interest overcaase public good.—
i And notwithstanding the executive had done all
that was confident for the French nation, keep
ing in view our neutrality <*nd to maintain
ta- rxaee , yet the minister of that nation appealed
lif- to the people—and although the executive was
•he pursuing every prudent mcafure.for the good of
ind the peopie, and to prevent a war, yet what an
in- opposition was formed fifty times as Are tig as
the two parties mentioned by Mr. VubohiSy
J?" and had it not been that a wife providence who
. vev-rule* all things, and human prudence in the
executive, we must at that time have been drawn
hat into a war. The yeomanry of our country
nee ingthefethings,and that the opposition arofefrom
t y, e interested views, they, so far as my information
t i and knowledge extends, although they were at
firft opposed <« the «o»ftitution, fearing anew
,m " revolution, engaged on the Sdeof government.
:ecs This alTertion is verified, if we take a view ot
ir«S the state of New-York,and the Eastern flatei j
in- lot when the constitution took place, three
thi, fourths were opposed to it ip the northern and
i„ rs wellern parts of New-York, a»d now three
' fourths of them are attached to its support. And
. why was thi, change in the great commercial
lin - cities ? because the executive prevented that
our privateering and illicit commerce which mult
V*n- heve involved us in a war abroad and lifc-rd
oa- at home i but, for a momentary benefit, num
ber, have opposed the executive, and in conle
wn quence thereof a great opposition has appeared.
An obfervalion, said Mr.,W. was made the
! | other day b* the gentleman from Pennsylvania,
;nd " ].( Mr. Gallatin) and he was sorry to hear it, that
'g'" j although the majoritv here wa, for the exe»u.
the tive measures, yet the eopl, said he or,'wthui
s of This idea with the feebte minorities. Mr. Wi
3ur. hams laid, had, in hi, opinion- created all our
part and prefept difficulties ; and what had lei
'j him to this opinion » »s, that when the ren
- a ' c : minister cam. herein i 79.?» hi ' f. 0 "'
cto such as though he depended on ftebtc minonW.
"bo j and the ptifjt with ut. Who was it, fa>£
ad, ! Mr. W. that told the French P 1 ' 100 ™".
4th things that induced them them to inflrufl t
n! {is minister
. re noritics and the pecf'.e <w\th us ' H«s P ur
, the measures he did, and previous to hi* "
,?, acknowledged bv our government, coahr
f,lld him in this ■ pinion ; for, the French m "V
that j would not have had those inftrudtions, nor
con- j pursued tnofe measures, yniefs the Frenction had been led t« believe that the people of
this country were opposed to their 1
and would go to war rn the part of France. I
ask, said he , what would have been tlone with i
a rr inifter (roing from thi-J countrv to Frjrne, '
who acted in like manner? wou'd he not have
been guillotined, even without the shadow of a
trial ? Again, would that miniller have appeal
ed frotn the executive to the people, had he not
been persuaded the people were opposed to their
government ? and who are these peopl • ? Can
ihev be called friffids to their
Has not the feeble minorities and ihis idea of
'the people <witb us, been the canfe of the French
nation making dtpredati' n6 on our eommer e,
and thereby }>rodncin£ a loss to our citizen* to
the amount of fix millions of dollars ? Had not
that Wea.ftid he, induced the Briylh to believe
m the year that this cftuntry would en
gage in J waragainft them in favour of France,;
and their taking !or this would be
the cafe, was the reafen wh) they made the de
predations on our commerce which they did
But the Brinfh fnding that our government was
3etermined «to fupp;irt their neutrality, and
would go to war in cafe the insult was continued,
theydefifted ; and so would the French natioir
have done, had not a party exifled among our
selves, who were conllantly buzzing in the ears
of the rulers in France, that the people were op
posed, to their governm nt. What wasfaicfrto
our late minister to France by fbeir minister, was
jfufficient to (hew this. But how has it operat
ed ? the French have been deceived, and their
Wif'appointment has cauf?d them to do what
they would not otherwise have done. 'I hey
had' bean I'd to believe, that through the influ
ence of certain gentlemen, tie yeomanry of our
country would do anything for 'hem, even en
ter into a war in their favour in eppofition to
Iheir own government. In this thev hav been
disappointed, and this had texed thein, so as
to fall on otir defencHefn commerce. When
men are vexed, they will commit excefTes j in
stance the member from V.rmnijt j th fe ideas
bad set him-to a<£l like a crazy nun ;he said
that the memb rs in this house were ailing a
gainll the opinion of n'me tenths of the p.-ople
who sent them, and declared in the next breath
that be could in fix months change their opin
ion. If he had attended to, or baljeved what
he had said. th* people did not want to be chang
ed, at.le.fl nine out often.
Lbelt.eve it was the wish of the yeom »nry of
•or country that the French people should ob
tain their independenee, but not te be lugged
imo a war on that account. But for any per
fens to iay tfce French nation might (e>y the peo
ple's opp fit ion to our government) expefl
mu h frost the people, or that they would en
gase in a war in their favour, not Only void
of truth, bur calculated to do much mifchief ;
and this we have experienced. To this we may
attribute the d fficulties that have arisen from
the tranfaiili ns of our own people, arising from
f .hie minorities, and the idea of the people with
w Again—this idea of " the people with us,"
i« unfoun ed in fail. In th« last feflion ofcon
grel's. Ihe number who voted on a question rela
tive to the rondutft of our government being
jtift and impa'tial to foreign nations, there were
jit for it, and only 45 against it. On what
principle then, can that gentleman fay " the
people are ivith us ?" These obfervationt are
not only unfounded, but have been attended
with the woril effedls to our country. The as
sertion has encouraged privateers being fitted
out here ; f am told of a Angle company who
fitted our our Our merchants have hid six
ty me veflels taken by them, and only three
w< e raptured belonging to the EngliSi. The
merchants who werepurftsmg their occupation
honell'y .ind airly, and who would not be fieeu
in any contraband trade, have been injured.—
Haiikrup'.cies have been occafibned, »nd the
farmers who have gi en eredit to the merchants
Srttil rhe iTtnrn cargo arrived, have loft the
price of all thei' crops, and party prevented the
re r miVc. * >/ our country from being called for,
to red cm our debt, at a time when the but'hen
could with ease have been borne. Beside this,
our merchants have been so plundered, that
numerou engagements have not been complied
with, »r.d the money is gone from our country :
this has occafionefl innumerable law suits, and
many of onr ho-eft 11, d flrious farmers, <vill
have to fell their farms, and all this, from feeble
minorities and the idea of the people with us. I
*fk,faid Mr. W. if their sppoflt ivs had not car
ried them fufficiently far into difficulties, and if
it was not high time to baufe ? Let us,' as the
gentleman laid from Comie<?Vci)t the o her lay,
reafen together Sox the good of the whole.
The gentltmin from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas)
had coi.eluded his obfervationi, with a good deter
mination ; v.hTch was, that he would defend his
country in e;>f of an invasion. Mr. W observed
that he hi ped every one would do the fame, tho"
he did not iivagine an invasion for the purpo r e of
fiibjugation would take place. What European
nation, said he would come three thousand miles
for such purpcfei Wehave upwards ol Cne mill
ion rejfablicans, who, to repel an enemy, would
embody ; the want of difcipl-ne would be fsppli
ed with the fpiritof'76, and the yeomanry of Our
c untry would come dowfa like a mighty torrent,
an would sweep the bold invader to the deep.
Thefe.ifibilityof our country, Mr. Williams be
lieved. was dsterm -ned to vindicate its rights with
jfirmnr/j, and ca tiva'.e peace with feeurHy, Bxt,
said he, does America wish for war ? God forbid,
if any mc-ani fiiort of th» surrender of our rights,
freedom, religion an.l propeity can purchase peace,
let us do it—he was lor it. War is to be dreaded :
it was a'tended with a train Of innume
rable evils—But rather than to give up all, will
we not unite to repel unmerited infnlts if not
put a flop to ? Yes—He contended tha! a day of
virtuous liberty, was worth an age in bondage.
Gentlemen had said that our government would
eaufe a war with Spain, but how have they been
mistaken ! Our government hid spoke to Spain in
the American language ; they heard, and peace
was the consequence. Had the fame language
been spoken to France, and no freble minorities, no
ideaof tit people viith us, they would also have heard,
and twenty millions would have been saved.
Upon the whole—lt is not contended, butthat
this house has a right to fix the sums neceflary to
be paid to the miniflert according to their grade,
aid the courts to which they are sent. i his was
the conflitutianal check vetted in the hcufe of rep
refrntatives; and notwithflanding the falarics have
not been augmented since the year > 790, he w?.»
willing to go into the enquiry, and if found too
much, woald vote for a reduilion, and i necefla
ry, to diflinguifh the lum« 10 be allowed them ac
cording to the different places to which they are
sent. To a<sl on th*. grouni, he conceived to be
agreeable to the spirit and letter of the eonltitution,
*nd he was for allowing them no more than was
eonceived to be reasonable ; and on this principle
we could use the check given us by the constitu
tion, and we ought not to overleap the bounds as
tgned s uthcrein-j for while we, as one branch of
the legislature, would scorn to be dictated by any
other, feeling the sense of our own dignity ; fn
( 'batfource of dignity ought to teach ustoaßflais
from dilating to another braDth as independent as
we arc.
Our duty, as one branch, ought to be, to main
ain the rights vetted in US by the pedple ; but if
> cprefumeto en»roach upon the power vefttd is
Mother branch—this being the moll numerous, the
Poversof that branch which must giveway, being
* "taker branch, will by ■ egrees be rendered inae
tlyei whereby an ariflocracy will be ellablifhed,
at "i this will pave'the way to abfoiute tyranny.
The retrenchment of etpenew i 0 oltr ,
mem w,« , de'traMe oV.j*» . ar , hc „ ite
i( ihiTu'T °'< th " fu,! j*& in every cafe,where
u fee thought prudrat But tie f, cuntv of
ur go vet' men*, our live,, liber y and *
property of more imports ace, and t«. Iboul.
nev« he Uft f lgh t of. J n thedefence of which, we
" Bt hu * f,er °' Jr *''■<* exertiocs would be
Ued for. Let us therefore, a* guardian, of t»>e
W ° i ' l P ar *T prejudices, let <u coolly ;
and deliberately relied on cur fituati 9 n as a nation, ?
'/* asb, ° thcr . btf.ngiog to one great family,
and endeavor by a unanimity, firninef, and natri
? f° for P« an y mtfundcrflanding which may ,
ave taken place. Let us individually endeavor to
eradicate from our min s t'n„fc opin ons which we .
may have allowed to acquire a growth that over
fcadow. thedi&atas of unl nff-d tru-b and i«(licc e
hen party diiuniliontaro wrought to an extreme V
<g when j a'oufy »nd fufpiciea univcrfiliy
pcrv de not only ourselves hut the community— 0
However .ntwelling the fa' jeS N w ver neceffa 1
ry the du.y, it will be a difficu tt arret"either
our OWB or the publi* attenrito, by an ai peal tu F
""derfanding, and impartial enruiry into the C
true interefloi our country, l.ft u'» each indivi- r
dually consider whether we have not a! owed our ■"
immediate aud-particubr intcreft to influence our t
public condofl, and with a view to a temporary
advantage to ourfelve. given out fan&ion to mea
lurcs, which, unl.fs timely checked, may pu' in t
hazard those blessings which a «enftitution, found- t
e« like theconflitunon of rhe United Staffs not
on th» rifion, of a heated or dift mpered im-gina- *
♦ion, but or principles unchecked in their t
operation by the arm of violence or mifreprefenta
tioti and calumny mull neceilarily produce, and
w en fnall have traced in the wifdem which
dirtaed,<u>dinthe firmnefs which effeite.' the revo
lution, *ur being prtfejvcd hiherto trim h. in"
drawn into a war, we mull acknowledge with -ha-'
gratitude which is due •% providence, for his k.nd
jnterpofition in ! ehaif of th> happy couirr»
By this day's Mail.
, NEW-YORK, March 3.
Lafl evening the schooner felicity, capt,
Vaughan, arrived at this port in 53 dayi
from Portsmouth in England. Her letter*
are dated London, Jannary theJixth, later
than any thing before received, but we have
seen none that containedpolitks—her papers
could not be had until this day.
BOSTON, February 26.
LATEST FROM FRANCE.
Important and Authentit ! !
Capt. Dill, arrived here yesterday in 45
days from Havre-de-Grace, has brought dis
patches fr«m the American commiflioners in
France, to the Government of the United
States; which will immediately be feat off
by express.
By this arrival, a private letter was recei
ved from Eldbrige Gerry, one of
the American Extra Envoiy, at Paris,dated
in that city, the 3d Jan. whicfc fays " We
hare not been accredited by the Executive
Dire&ory, nor do I think we (hall be, I
fee no profpeft of success in our embafly,
and I think car residence here will be but
(holt. An Entertainment is soon to be
given the Lady of Gen. Buonaparte, by
theMinifterof Foreign affairs, at which
will be pre-fent the Directory and all the
Foreign Ministers, Except The A merit an,
The Paris papers, received by captain
Dill, contain no articles of political inifor,
mation. important to the Amerioan public;
they are to Jan. 7, and on the fubjeft of
our Commiflioners, or the projected Des
cent on England, arc almost totally silent.
NEW-THEATRE.'
MONDAY EVENING, March 5,
Will befected th.- C VVIEDY »f
A Cure for the Heart Ache.
To which will be added. the Comic Opera of
The SHIPWRE K.
Subscription i all.
MR.. PR A NCIS relpeiSl fully informs the fub
fcribrrs that the Second Ball of t<ne prc,ftnt
fji ftriptio will b on l'ue r day 'he € of March.
Ladies Tickets to be had of thJ fubferihers or
on application to Mr
flreet,. Non-fub r cription tickets to 'e had of
Mr. F. at his houfc, or at the 'iffembly Room.
Tick ts as nfnal. march f
i* cr London,
J--*- Ship Star,
Jcfeph Woodman, master,
Intended ta fail on the 18th in.fl.
ABOUT 50 tons on freight
if- h e received, if immediate ap
plication is made to the matter on beard, at Wal
nut flreet wharf, or to
Thomas 13 John Kctland.
stj tons Gravel Ballast for fule oh board said ship.
march y §i*L_
7 0 be Let on Shares,
A valuable Farm ready stocked,
WITHIN 3J miles from Philadelphia, on the
weft fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike.
It is expe&ed th tenant will find suitable per
f«ns to take care of a dairy and attend market,
•with all other neceflary labour.
ALSO, WANTED,
A Gardener —a Single Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, uulefs they can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 3* Markft-ftreet.
march $.
' To be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 pcrche?, with a seat
two story brick House and kitchen thereor, an ap
ple Orchard, &,c situate «n the Irifla tra<l lane, hi
the cownfhip of Moyamei sing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Furthttr particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tide and
elegance stand unrivalled.
N. B. It tbe above place is not fold t efor« the
, loth infl. it will then be rented, for the Summer
feafan on'y. § march j.
Notice is herpby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, standing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. JOC4, and dated July 11, 1797—the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march j 6w
To f>e Sold,
The time of a Negro Girl,
Eleven year? of age, and who has fevepteen
years to serve. She is lately from the is
healthy, ftronj and capable of doing the iighi
, work of a small fciaiilf.— of the Printer,
march }. ®
Xije
PHILADELPHIA, j
MONDAY EVENING, March 5. I b
The folio-wing Message -was read in the Honfe
of Reprefeuiatives this forenoon.
Gentlemen of the Senate and
Gentlemen of the honfe of representatives,
Tnc firft dispatches from our envoys
extraordinary since their arrival at Paris,
were received at the Secretary of State's
at a late hour the last evening— Si
j. hey are all in a char after, which will
require feme days to be deciphered, ex- 8
cept the last which is dated the Bth of K!
January, 1798, the conter*?s of this let
ter are of so much importance to be itn- Si
mediately made known to Congrsrfs, and
to the public, especially to the mercan- „
tile part of our fellow-citizens, that I
have thought it my duty to communicate S
thent to both Houses without loss of time.
John Adams.
United States, }
March sth, 1797. j , 0
A
(N0..5.)
Pari9, January Bth, 1708. b
Dear Sir, I
WE embrace an unexpe&ed opportu- P
nity to fend you the " Redacteur" of the ®
lixth instant, containing the melTage of
the Directory to the Council ofFive Hun- £
dred, urging the necessity of a law to de- I
clare as good prize all neutral fiiips hav
ing on board merchandizes and commo
dities, .the produftion of England, or of 5
the English pofieffions, that the Flag, as
they term it, may np longer eover the
property. And declaring further that the
ports of France, except in cafe of dif- |
tress, shall be (hut against all Neutral ■' J
ships, which, in the course of their!
voyage, (hall have touched at an English 1
port. A commission his been appointed t
to report on the mefTage, and it is exp»dt- f
ed that a decree will be pafled in confor- <
mityto it.
Nothing new has occurred since our j
last, in date of the twenty-fourth ultimo- 1
We cail only repeat that there exists no
hopes of our being officially received by :
this Government, or that the objects of
our million will be in any way accom- 1
plifhed.
We have the honor to be with great '
refpeft, your most obedient servants. !
Charles Cotesworth Pinc*ney. '
J. Marshall. , '
■ E. Gerry. j '
Timothy Pickorfng, Efq,
Referred to the Committee on the State ;
: of the Union.
The following is an epitome of the present
politics of the French government. ■ ,
ExtraS of a letter from Bourd/aux, dated ]
Dec. 8, written by a gentleman <whofe in
formation may be depended on. j
*' Our plenipotentiaries are (till at Paris, ■
and have not as yeteffe&ed anyarrangement, ]
they have not even had an audience or any ,
conference with the executive—and nothing ]
can exceed the indifference with which they
have been treated j to fajr not worfe—lt is <
impoflible to forefee in what manner the ;
present discord between thetwogovernmeiits |
wiH be reconciled —it is reneraily thought, •
and indeed it is eur indiiijual opinion, that ,
our present cammiffioners will not tffeft the j ,
objett of their miflion : yet we do not. think t
hoftilitywillfollowtheirdeaarturefromParis, ] ,
unless provoked by the United States by j ]
some aft of reprrfals for Frsnch depredations ,
—which depredations will probably con- j
tinue at the will and whim of the execu- ,
ti*e of France—yet this wbim will be mea- 1 ]
fured by their political situation with the )
neighboring nations. They are fa aceuf- (
torned to viftory and making laws, that ,
there is scarcely any moderation or bounds ,
to theif terms in many safes. England is (
' however, the' only nation that has not as yet j
' received their yoke—Portugal has ratified j
. the late peace, butasfhedid not do it in ,
, the time limited, it is thought the ratifica
tion will not be accepted without an addi
tional facrifice or humiliation."
' ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman at Bour- '
dtaux, who had jujf left.Paris, dated Sth
November 1797. 1
« Times are very critical here for Amen- (
can affairs, and the arrival of the commis
sioners is of no effeft. I waited on them fc
x veral times at Paris, and the day before I
' ! left it, had a long conference with one of
" ! them, the fulsftance of which I do not think
!i j prudent to pwt in this letter as its fate is un
lf certain; but they are certainly treated with
the hiolt (hameful pegleft. At the fame
time, our commerce is fufferrng in the most
e alarming manner, and you may (hortly ex
:r pest to hear of a vast number of condemna
tions; for although they ftiould be acquitted
in she inferior tribunals, the court of caffa
,] tion will condemn them; ano the decree
c which gives a right to individuals to fit out
1- national (hips will considerably increase their
8 cruisers."
The article signed " Sic Transit," pub
lilhed in Friday's Gazette, is considered a
fabrication—lf it is not, the person who
sent it to the officers called on to prove that
n it came from Connecticut. _____
!' Hyion and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cherts of excellent quality# for fa!c, cor
ner ol arui Pine OkC cotl
GAZETTE MARINE LISl.t
<
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. r
ARRIVED, JIAYS. <
Rh»p Hope, Benbridge, C. N. Mole 18 I
Brig Lively, Cox, do. iS :
Nymph, Webb, 0<». 18 |
Fly, Ruffel, Jamaica 44 t
Experiment, Hefs, Surrinam 35
Pomona, Morton, Isle of France 11J
Hannah, Kenney, Char'eflon 17 '
Pegpy, Alcorn-, Charleston 16 (
Prufiian, Antonietta, .Guyqu.e,
Rotterdam 115
Molly, Kilby, Cape Francois 13 I
Schr. Minerva, Andaulle, Port-au-Priitce 17 r
Kitty, Fatham, Pifcataway, 8 '
Sloop Eliza, Baldwin, .-N.York 5
Sloop Laura, Barker, Nantucket 7 t
Indultry, Spooner, N. Carolina 25 ,
CLEARED. i
Ship Birmingham Packet, Kelly, Bombay 1
and Canton 1
Peggy Rafer, Charleston,
Brig Eliza, O'Connor, Port au-Prince
Galliot, Bremen Flagge, Meyer, Oporto
Schr Illinois, Watf'jn, Petit Goave
Success, Cook, Gonaives
Trial, Hand, Alexandria
Sloop Eliza, Cottrell, N. York
The George Barclay, and a number of
other outward bound veffcls, left Reedy-I
fland en Saturday.
The Minerva Andaulle, failed from the
Mole the 14th ulc. under convoy of the
British brig Jason, of 14 guns for Pbiladel*
phia. 1
Brig Marfouin, do. Charleston
Sloop Hope, 6 do. Philadelphia
And in company of the following vessels.
Ship Experiment, Jenny, for Philadelphia
Brig Delaware, Dunphy, do.
Adtive, Elliot, do.
Clio,- , New-York
Betsey, , Baltimore
Schooner Little Will, Pearfon, Philadelphia
Fox, Kidney*, do.
Thomas, Vandym, do.
Elizabeth, Frazicr, do.
John,—», do.
' Maria, -, Norfolk
•' Sloop Sally,——, Philadelphia
I Capt. Audaulle parted convoy the 21
ult. fafe through the Keys.
The Fly, Ruffel left Kingston, Jamaica
the IJth of January in company with a large
fleet for England, under convoy of 10 ship»
of war, and about 20 fail of velTcls for the
United States, amongst which were the fol
lowing.
Ship Sally, Webb, for Norfolk
Mary, Dillingham, N.York
—r—, Ames, Boftan
SehoonerTwo Sifters, Tuckernian, Norfolk
Left at Kingston the sloop Nelly, Pease
•f this port, sent in on her passage, from St.
Jago, to Lancevau, cargo condemned.
The brig Peggy, from La Guira, failed
four days after the Hannah, and brings an
account of a schooner from Jamaica, in a
fltort passage, having arrived there previous
to his failing, which brought information
i of the arrival of a Britifti packet at Jamai
ca, with the intelligence o£ the American
commifiioners having been ordered to quit
Paris in 48 hsurs. (No dates mentioned.)
The brig Delaware Donphy, from Port*
au-Prihce, (one of the fleet) is lelow.
Capt. Webb informs, that he left at Jer
emie the 28th of January, the ("now Polly,
Senkey, and Polly, Cox, of this port.
February 28, off the Capes, spoke the
(hip Minerva, Siffon, out 69 days from
Havre for New York, who informed that
he had dispatches on board form the Com
mifiioners at Paris to the Executive of the
Unitted States.
Arrived yesterday, Molly, Kilby, from
Cape Francois, who informs that he failed
in company with the sloop Charlotte, Hig-
Wee, for New York, the brig Patriot,
Hodgkins, failed 2 days before for Balti
more, and the schooner Eutaw, Brewfter,
of this port failed for Gonaives 5 days before
that the fehooner Maria, Flinn, of this port,
| retaken from the British, was condemned at
i Port de pais 3 days after her arrival. Cap
tain Flinn was at the Cape in order if pos
sible, to procure a second trial, and that
the (loop New-York and Philadelphia Pac
ket, Ruffel, from hence to Leogane, had
been taken and sent in Gonaives, and plun
dered of considerable property,and then dis
missed, that the schooner Hopewell, Clark,
of this port, had returned to the Cape, af
-1 ter failing for home,- and was to fail again
in 15 days—the schooner Bolton, Clark,
■ from hence, had arrived in 12 dnys—that an
expedition was gone agtu'nft the Mole or
Port-au-Prince, and thac accounts had been
received at the Cape of the capture of Fort
Bizoton—that in consequence of the ne
groes and mules being in requisition, coun
try produce was scarce at the Cape—A
merican produce in demand- March 2d,
spoke the (hip Charles, 14 days from Gua
daloupe for Baltimore.
The Enjifli Packet, the Counters of Leices
ter, from London, for New-York, is taken by
the lufurgente F'ench frigate and carried imo
L* Orient.
BOSTON, February 24.
n'fr
WASHINGTON'S BIRTH DAY
Was, as it ought ever to be, celebrated in
■ numerous places thoughfltlt the Union,
• on Thursday last. In this tawn, demonftra
l tions of gratitude discovered themfelveti in
. various displays of feltive hiliarity. The
; American flag floated from all the Ihipping
t in the harbour, and from every flag ftaff in
r tswn. Guns were fired, although the wea
ther was tempestuous, and the bells of
Chrift-ehurch rang merrily. Private Entrr
- tainment* were given in various parts of the
a town a( large number of citizens, as
0 usual. partbok of a sumptuous dinnerat
t CONCERT-HALL
Among the guelh, were His Excellency
the Governor, His Honor the Lieutenant
* Governor, the chief Justice and Judges of
■ the Supreme Judicial Court, Members of
« ft » »
tie HononUe Council and Senate, tf>s
Speaker \<l Houfc of fevc
ral of the Clcargy, Genera' Knox, the Hon.
Mr. Ames, and leversi federal and state offi.
cersof diltin&lon. General Lincoln pre
(ided ; pleasure enlivened every cuuntenance
and the sentiments which animated the com
pany, will heft be fecn by the following
toalln after dinner.
1 Ihe day w« celebr.ite.
2 GEOKOK WASHINGTON. " May hi*
name he Hill a rj»part, and the knowledge chat
r lives a bulwark against all open and iecret
ei fine of oqr country-" fWalhing. march.]
'% X IE PRESIDENT ofthe Unued State l :.
May the w IWom, virtue ind energy, whicti he
has f« un'verfa "v d filayed, in defence of the
rights O- his country, be ever hr| 1 i B grateful
remembrance, f; he Grand Salutej -
4- 1 h. Vice-PreGilent.
S The eongrrjs ofthe United States. May
they be fully convinced, that the I'ureft expedf.
ent topr ferv r pei<e, it to prepare for war •
and tha- th befl means to avoid are
to manifeft the power, and the diipoGtion to
repel i f Vankre donHe.J
6. TV Coi.ftitution of the United States.
fliHer a wife an f temperate regimen, may it bt
preserved alike !>um foreign contagion and ic
me flic di order
, 7. The Ci-mnonwealth of MaGachufetts. U
ii it item in heroppofi ion toexternal foes and do.
incltii . action, may flie persevere in maintaining
the independence of her pm.-ipies. (Knox's
mar. b ] 1
I. Tumt'iy Pickerinf, Secretary of State
May ke con:inue fiimly and ably to vindicate
the measures of a virtu us admitnft arion.
9. jokn |ay. Faithful, able and independent,
may he alw ys enj y the efieera and confidence
ol our fellew-oitjjcm,
10. Oui minitters abroad. May thev remem
ber, tl at their highest duty ia to vindicate their
own government, and not \<r-/urr*nder its r rbtt
to the mtrreft of any other.
It. The American C mtniflnners at Par'a.
As the m tivetand condnCi of our government
nerd only to be uerfeHloo to be |«flified, may
a fpeec'y opportunity occur to remove any pre.
judices which a mitreprefenutton ol our mea
lures have orcafioned.
»». The Clergy. May they,check the pro
grefl of religion, infidelity so fatal to public or.
der and private bappincls
13 The commerce or' our eouttry. May
our fjoverument exert its strongest arm for its
p.otedhon.and mavir rif. i'uatrior ti) the un
principled attacks of its enemies.
14. Agricultui-e. May the American farmer
Gt under his own vine and fig tree, a,d enjoy
in fafety the fruits of his toil.
*5- May American Pairiotilrn never forge t
its |iome in a too gmerous feeling for foreign
countries. *
l 6« When anarchy pays court to the Ameri.
can GMdefs.may he be or. Ed to take the lover'#
leap from our highelt r< rk.
[On the retiring of the Governor and Lieu,
tenant Governor, tleir heahhs were eiven.
rOLUKISZRS.
By Gen. Lincoln, (PrefiJ.nt). May the
laws proteil the citizens, and the citizens the
laws
By Hon; Mr.Higginfon, (fir ft Vice-Prefident.)
May the leminaries of Heaven be darkened
sooner than America ke really ungrateful te r.cr
mil'tary fervsnts.
By Gen Cobb, (Second Vice-Prefident.)-•
May the virtues of WASHINGTON be an in.
variable example to all future Statesmen and
tlerees.
By Hon. Mr. Jackson. Oliver Wolcor, Se.
cretary of the Treasury. While ability and in.
tegrity cantinue to mark hia character, may be
poflefs th* confidence of ill honed men.
By Major-General Elliot. James JVi'Henry,
Secretary at War. May the talents he has
difplaved in peace, increafeln proportion to the
necfffitv of exerting them.
By Hon. Mr. Ames. May oer fellow-citi
zens tifc liberty as temperately a* Washing.
W>n excrcifed power.
Mr. Consul Crafts. The AFr.eric»* Commif
fi»i ers at Lordori —Thanks for their palt exer.
tiois— c ucctfs to their fu ure labours.
By Major Frazer. The Rising Navy of
America May it like Hercules strangle fer.
pents who would ftifle it in it* cradle.
By Mr. Cooper. The population of our
country; —May no scions be grafted on
our oak, but those which imbibe the juice
of the Parent tree.
Ry Mr. Callender George Cabot: While
talents and virtues »re rtfptdhd, Maflachu
fetts will boast of him as her son.
By Mr. Lowell. May modetn events
convince us that a constitution it a " fpider'e
web," in the hands of Tyrannical dema
gogues.
By Mr. Gorliam Parsons. The Hon,
Roger Grifwold, aud the fifty two Gentle*
men in Congress:—May their exertions to
rid the National Legislature of a beastly
charafter, be remembered by their confti
turnts.
By Dr. Barrett. May the People of the
United States perpetuate to themfelve* the
blessings of their free State Conltitutiuns ky
a cheerful support of the Federal govern
vent, and obedience to its laws.
By Mr. D. Sargent. The late com mu»
nication of our Executive to Congress: may
every American heartbeat in ur.ifon with
such fentinients; and every arm be nerved
to demand " reparation for injuries, and fa
tisfatHon for infnlts."
Mr. S. Perkins, (after the Generals re
tiring) General Lincoln—Grown Grey in
the service of his country, may he long con
tinue to enjoy its elleem and-crtnfidence.
By A Citizen. "Thunder"—the lan
guage of the Speaker of the Federal House
j of it reverberate thro'
the Uriiun.
By A Citizen, May the Lioft of the
green Mountains be considered by every ci
tizen as the raeanell reptile in creation ;
the pifntire of America.
By A Citiaen. The Minority in Con.
grefs: may we continue to gain by Honor*
a s they loft by old tricks.
The tnafts were received with cordiality
and applause.
Notwtthftanding the we»ther was unfa
vorable, the Columbian Mirfeutn wSi well
attended.
The day was suitable noticed at Salem,
Cambrige and other places in our vicinity.
TO RENT,
A good three story House,
TWO 1 m on each floor, with a con^-nient
r Kit hen—in Front, near Soutb-ftr. ct En<p> r|
F of the Printer. rawsliJUST RECEIVED, c ;
AKD to* MLI, A T
W. Yon; no's Book-store, i
Corucr ot" Ch'jfnnt and Second ftre«ts, F
( Price 50 Cents) T
Caafes fe font oppofees aiix
Proeres du commerce, entre L\ Fx ANCEet Us
E !'ATS-UNIb de L'AMERiqUE.
Avee let Moyenj de l'accelcrer ; c
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationals '
de I'Anglctcrrc, dc la France, and des j
ETATS-UNLS. (
In fix Lettres, addreffeet a Monfieurle Mar- <
quis be la Fayette. Traduitlur le Ma- j
mifcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien (
Membre de la Ligiflature dela Ripublique (
du MafTachuffet.
Le Commerce efl It portion U plus importaote des '
(RichefTes Nationales.
—LeTrident de Neptune, eft lc sceptre du Monde. j
LlMltKt. |
Or caufcs that have been opposed to th£ 1
PROGRESS of . OMMERCE botween |
■FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA. <
With the means of accelerating it ;
And a. eomparifon of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Translated (into Fr nc-h fram the original Eng
lifh Manufcri"t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber ef the Legislature of Mafiachufetts.
Commerce i» the not important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
The Irident of Neptune is the Scrptre of ,
the world.
AT a jun&ure when the question of
a Commercial Treaty -with France may soon
bec ine aw ohje& of difcuflioß, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufeful to those sitizens of the
United States, who may be deGroua to enable them
selves to view this ful jea, un 'er its various af
ped^; and they will have the fatisfaiSion to be
fnrnilhed with the neceflary data, to Judge of the
ofelulnefs of this tranfadlion.
1 his work is principally distinguished by the
richmfsof the obferva ions ike p<rfpi«uity of thu
Ucas, and the modesty of the theory wheh it
contains. t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work"»as like a rich farmer's barn,heaped up
to the vety with ufeml produce. It is addref
fed te the unfcrtu»ate La Favitti, in letters,
which fugitive so m, the author who could only
devote a lew werki to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumftinc«s aie in many
refptfls' diffeient at the present day, from what
ll; .y wefe in the year 1790, when these letters
were wr'ttrt, y.'t it maybe juflly fjid.that so ma
ny ablolute and permanent data fUll remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lelson chat account ; on the contrary, « many of
the a!t-rations which have been made, are the re
fuit r.f the au'l or". remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfaetioiiS, between free
patient, cv ry thing may bo txpeiled from the ef
forts of truth andjuflice.
LETTER I.
Central vi»w of the obftacles/createdin France,
to pi event the extension oi commerce, with the
United Stat s—Olfervations made in a tour, taken
fnr that exprefn purpose, uponfonve French manu
fi'durt s(a precious fragment this). Examination
and lelutation of the prejudices existing in France,
against the quality of certain produflions of the
United States, a*d against the advantages of their
importation—Demonilration of As bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
provisions in general, and on (alt provisions, and
fifh in pa ticolar—Considerations on the regulations
of the French caf.oih-heufes.
LETTER U.
Gbflacles to the extension of Wads with France,
pioceoding from circumfUoees apd individuals m
the United ftates—Proofs tha thefeobftacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
be n removed) by time and the wifdomof govern
ment Hirtoryet the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant principle* and abflraA
conuderatiotjs 011 money and circulation —Causes
of the .'agnation of uncrican trade, after the
peace —Critical examination of French oods, im
ported into America, and *xtraordirary conduA
of the French merchants—Effect of good com
mercial laws; at d patriotic wifhe on t>his fubjedt—
Obfcrvations on money, weights and mcafurcs.
LETTER 111.
Effayin thefotna i > tableau, to appraise the im
poitations intothe United States from France and 'ng
land un'tcd. Ihe suthor examines at each article,
whether it can be better luviuthed fn m France or
Inglind —lt is principally on this fubjcQ (which
would havealtanilhrd a me e theorifl) that the author
appears t. evmdegreat commercial experience. These
Win' ot tableaux, uuluckily as 'lifficult to obtain as
they •'«! much to be defited, aiethr only (ure guides
the Hatcfman can tike for tin policy of treaties, de
prived of wr.ich he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cm ot too much admire the Apparent ex
aanefs ot colonel Swan's calculations j and although
the propb fies of Lord Sheffield have already tieen
con iaditled bvexperience, and by fevetai able pens,
yet H iscumous to lee the author of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only ground on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by pro»ing that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Cieat Britain to supply ui with fever a 1 articles,
which the Englilh authoi allots exclusively and form
er to il'e latter; the author's paitiaht) tfftfltm (if he
has an>) does n»t appear to have at any time created
s fmtiahty of The result of this calculation
is'that in 1789, that is to fay, ata period when arts
and manufa&uret did cot present in France the v. it
means and probability of extension which they now
polfrfs. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given quantity of the produdions of France
and I ngland united, but ilfo to enter into competition
with Gieat Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her govei ntneut, and the indullry
of her inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculsiion of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason why, notwithflanding the
exccll nt woik oi Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
(/ecu is by no means fupeiflueus . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation <>i provisions and raw maii iials, is every
where applied ; and rt is upon this argument, that
the au'-hor eftablifbes his demands to the Freneh go
vernmcnt, for (he limited admiiEon of the produc
tionsof his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United Slates it that
time—Opinions of the author 6n the finances, on the
rifefts of national de&t, on circulation, &c. is more
amply detailed in bis National Arithmetic printed at
Boflon in the year 1786 ; the whole cajculated to
ilrengthen in France, tltepubl c and private credit
of the United States—theTiappy condition of Amej u
ea, and the miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, are conttaftrd in the abledmanner, and un
der the not finking itlatinns, by very luiioua cal
culations—OUervations on the wisdom and economy
which prefidc over the public expenses in Madachu
fetti. In this place the patriotism of tht author ap
pears, with all the elevation which ajufl national
pride inlpires. The ancient governments of Europe,
fays he, will learn from us the art of economy in
. recompcnfmg thefeivices which the country receives.*
.Imtngjl us n u.tll hfecn, that men arechajen Jar plates,
and not places Jot men. This letter coneiud s with a
feneral view of the public property, depofued in the
jnds of the government of the United States,
LETTER VI.
General examination of the defefls of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United Stales;
jnar.y ot these observations have produced the iff.
•or which they were intended, others flill remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
b ood chart mark} ibe fr.uals and recks, The auihcr
concludes his work, by fixing h-» attention on k »
country, ai.d the 6 reat men who have rerdered It 1 -
luSrious- and take a t>lcafure in quoting whit he
f»vsof the prefrn: chief of our c ovrrnment. To ,
p-aife a mar. when he eiercifes a diltinguifhed em
ploy mem, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
hut whilst he is in private Ule, it is the homage ot F
fiiioerity, . °
Note, page 316 of the work, i
• Les kaoiians des ttais-ums, ruivant dam leur
choix le bacn public, & excites par un pnncipe de
ree.innoiffanee, choiftrent M. John Adams pour vice- c
president du nouveiu congres. Ses effoits, pour pre-
server le peuple des intrigues formccs par le gouv- {
fruement Anglaia contre fa liberie, le rerdirent tres-
fufp«a accux qui etoient en pouvoir Le peuple,
convaincu de fan merite, le choifit pour un de les
reprefentans dans le premier congrrs. De ce nombr»
etoit aufTi M. Samuel Adams, pairiote auffi intrepide,
qu'inlatigable. La revolution Americame don beau
coiap ala perseverance de fes travaux, & afeslalens c
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes a
dans le ti aite de paix, qui s'eft fail a Paris en 1783,
out prouve qu'il etpit miniffre audi habile que grand t
politique. Et oans son ouvrage fur la defenie de la c
conflitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can- a
noiffances qui formcnt les vrais jurifconiultes & les ,
homines de loi; connoiffances necellaires, pour rem- (
plir hanorablement les funttions de president du len at ,
des Etats-unis.
' N~O~T ICE. j
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft ware, |
Such at never wai ig this Country before, has been (
been lately erea.*d at l ivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hud fen's River , 1U e of New-
York, where any article of va'ious sons and lhapes
may be executed, as well as earthcrn Roves upon a ,
new confliuflion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron (loves or open chvmnies ,
rhey are besides very wbolefome and ornamental, y «
app'yingt. J MOUCHET, !
Wanted a (Villful hand to aitend to the bakinp and 1
glaxing oart of ihe said ware. Generous appoint. '
ments will be given. Apply asib -vei or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 7 » Sou'h 51 h Street.
Feb. 19. C, "H W J
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to (he lift will and ceflament of
William H ysuam, deccafird, and pofTef
fion givt»n r:v mediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth (Lrcet*, confift
irgof the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is eretjlcd, a ftaUU, aiad other improvements. —
The house is ;0 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth a* the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cittern, bot'h with pumps
in go«p repair. The liable flands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horfas and a car
riage. This preperty enjoysthe perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court and an aHey, g feet wide,exte*iJ
ir.gto Uh«rry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poffeffn with refpeA te free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention ©f any
perfoii wishing K> possess an eligible property i» Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
ikreet—of
Robert HevsHAM,
or V Ailing E»«cßtor*.
Fravicis Bowes Sayrb, j
January II _ $
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands ag'ainft
the estate of Willam F-leewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attellcd ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
pavment, to
January dtf
Ran an/ay from the
Oh the 24th Jaauary ;»ft,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a middling fixed flaturc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a ' undle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brigs her to the fubferiber, at"
No. 181, Arch-lreet, corner of Fourth-ftrcct,
shall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N B. Whoever harbors f id Girl aiter this no
tice, shall be profeeated to the fevcrity of the law.
Februaty 10. , - ,
A 'ens-Fork, January n, 1798J
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in 1
, vols, odavo, of 400 pages each.
1 They will be printetj on fine paper and a new
« type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bourn*
and lettered, at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
' ume—one third of the Subfcrip .ion money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the rc-
I mainder when the work iscompUat.
To Frinters, Booksellers, and others, wha
1 acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
: be made.
£5" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water flreet—the Printing-
Office, 149, Pearl-flreet —and at the different
: Bookllores in New-York - Also, by William
1 Young, corner 1 f Second and Chefout street, :<nd
' the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficlent number of Subscribers
, are obtained, the work will be put to preft, and
> compleated with the utmost dispatch.
E Eeb. IQ. eodim
I PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY. SUBSCRIPTIOI',
t A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLBC,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mif
it demeanors, by which public and private propsr
e ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
e And fuggeding remedies for their prevention.
Jj BY A MAGISTRATE,
It A<Sing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Eficx ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
„ fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS,
y This work will be printed in a krge o&avo, on
i- an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will he delivered to
- fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
' of (in! Dollar and a half ; although the lart London
n ' edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, »
. now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To nen-fub-
I fcrfher- the price will be raised.
a' Whatever encouragement may be given by fub
e fcription, it willbe committed to 'he press without
delay j and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in Ajffll.
Subscriptions will be thankfuUy rectivedat
. Benjamin Daviei,'s's book-floie, No 68, Kigh
s flrert, and by mcft of th« other booksellers in rhe
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
a ud Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York,
r January 31. MwrA
/ PROPOSALS", ni
"™* i A " ■ et
Infur&nct Company of North Amertea, in
Fcr iNSORANCt against FIRR, on Dwelling- p;
Hotfcs, WarcHoufes, and other Euildings (and ifl
on Goods contained in such Beildings) distant from j
Philadelphia, in the United Stat*. £
I. Common lufurancet, on hazards bf tie firft P
class, will he undertaken at a premium of about
half per* cent, per annum For extra hazardous
rifques a larger prMrinm will be required, which
will vaty according to circumstances, feidom ex- °
eeeding one per ccut. per annum ; but in some in
fiances, where the property insured is not only in I
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered (till more so t(
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and n
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised d
according to circumstances. t!
Heufes iod Ware- Houses, the walls and parti- b
tien* of which are wholly of (lone or brick, well
cunllru&eo!, so as to bj? guarded as welt as may be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha- (
tardous buildings and occcupatiuns in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value. *
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o! an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or padwgss, de
pofi'cd in such buildiags, to an amount not ex- r
ceeding 4000 dollars; hut if more than thisfum
is required to be insured in one tenement, at} addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumltanccs. _ n
11. Iniurances will alTo be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to th« risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or classes, so as to defcribc q
each with the necessary accuracy. Each cafe mull . (
therefore be decided upon according to the circum- n
fiances attending it ; and these circumftacces wili, j
in general, appear from the defcnpti&n accompli-
uy.ng tke application. u
Buddings partly conftruifted of brick or (lone,
arc preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc- (
cHpied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are cenfiderations to f
be taken into view. And with refpetft te goods,
th«jr'tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either {
to commence or to increase an aeeidental fire, and
their liability in such (late to receive damage by (
wet, or'by sudden andhatly removal, or to be (to-
leu in time of confefion and hurry, are all cir- {
eumftances of weight ; and the premiums mud be j
proportioned accordingly. t
111. The following condition! are to be under- (
flood by the parties. t
ift. The Insurance is not binding till the flipu
late'd premium be ?iid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- {
fedual from the ume of fueh payment and accep
tance thereof, whe.her tie policy be immediately
signed or not. (
ed. Insurances nay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of :he policy, without further ex- j
penfe* than the paynent of the premium of the re
newed term, the ciraimftancescontinuing the fame
as they w'ere unrierftaod by the lufurtrs at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is efTential to such renewal ; and
if the party, irfured fuffrrs any time to elapfc after
the expir?ti«n of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; Her can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by Computing the
commencement bf the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeit of insur
ance may neverthelcfs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any otKer insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mud be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy tawde on such ap
plication will be void,
'4th Goods held in trust, or on confinement,
Way be insured as such in a separate policy ; but'
they are not to be considered as infutedetherwife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss .or damage occifion-.'dby any for
eign invafien, or by any military orufurped force,
or by Peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or pther thing of the
' like kind kept in the Building, or amonglt the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Herds, Money, Bank and other pro
' miffsry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medal*, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by fpicial agree
ment.
[ 7th. No insurance will be made for a (hotter
term than one year, nor lor a longer term than fe- •
ve» years. Perfors choosing to infsre foi' seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
' Bth. Loflias fuflained by fir< en property inCursd,
(hall be paid in thiny days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without dedu&ion.
A defetiption of the property to be infurod will
- be txpeAed with «ach application, to be made by
- a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
l by ths owner of tie building or applicant for in
surance, and attefied before a Notary or principal
, Migiftrate, who will certify his knowleuge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpe<sl to House s and other Buildings,
ift. The Cte aatt pnfitit n f dffcriUug the
- street or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other tir
-1 cumftances relative to the extinguiihmtnt of fire
1 in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
aay and what fire companies areeftabl;lhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood,
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
-1 ther of brick, ftont or wood, and what part 6f
1 each, as well as to theou'fide walls as infideor
' partition walls, and their refpe<£live height and
1 thickness ; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
' ty walls; what kind «f access to the top of the
' house and to the chimnies { whether any and
what eledlric rods ; tKe number and kind of
fire placet ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. Thedimenfionsof the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indiSerent persons to judge in what
, manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the Jge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
> ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
" pole , also an estimate of the value of the house
or buildwg independent of the ground.
4th. Tr e situation withrefptdl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred sett
> each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or othervrife : whe
ther any &nd what trade or manufactory is car
n ried on, and particularly whether there be any
0 extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
e sited in the house, or within the distance afore
™ said, and df what kind.
Hcfpedting goods in Houses, Warehoufei, Ac.
I, A peneial description of the building in
_ w! ich they are kept will beexpe&ed, similar in
t all refpetSs, as to the danger from fire, with that
. required for Insurance on the buildings them
selves.
t 2. A description of the kinds and nature of
. the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
t or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
- pieces or in the ulual form for retailing. And
• I if th * goods vary materially in kind, a general
I estimate of the value of tach kind proposed to
be insured ; but m the last particular
ness of description is not eXpeUeO
, Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in degrees,
i whatever building they may be placed, ■ C
1 n"tZ tar, turpentine, rol-n, wax, "How, oil,
inflammable l'pirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
ffl of an inflammable kind I
Glift 1 china ware or poroela.n, efpec.allt un- -p
packed; Looking giaffes, J tw^r y.! andaU o £
[her articles more than commonly inflammable, be
or-i.ore than commonly liable to injury jy' Gi
den removal or by mo.ftutes, or particularly G,
obnoxious t« theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters p«fl paid, direiled to the Secretary of C(
the Board «f Directors, will be duly a "
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the th
means of paying the premium, will be tmme- fc
diately executed on the .premium being paid- It
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By order, of the Beard, , f
F.BF.NF.ZKU HAZARD, Surf- £
Office of the Insurance Company of Norti. } •
America; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1 > wi
Feb. 14.
T O TH E
Citizens of the United States. th
'"pH£ Mijfianary Suntj of fhilaJilpkii, imprelT-
X ed with the iirportancfi of amelioratiHg the
condition and augmenting the happineis of mnn
kiiid, are impelled by motives of rel gion and be
nevolence to attempt the propagation of chriflian
and civil knowledge among tho aborigines of Ame
rica
Those who have experienced the bleffe<! cfFeils
of rca) religion, must feel a desire to disseminate
its principles, wherever the footftopsof a fellow IV
man may be found —An opportunity now offers,
for such to evince their finrerity, by laboring to-, D
gether in aocomplifhing the ancient prediction— I
" TLs Inowltdgc if ths Lord Jball erver tic tartl at the ' —
*wa ers do ti>t Jea"
Living in an age when the devaflationi of war f
teach us to appreciate and extend the blessings of
peace, all good and enlightened citizens will cen-
cur with us, that every flep which tend* to intre
duce the arts of civili«ation among the Indians, -1
must be highly favorable to the kitereft of the Uni
ted States. j j.
The easy access which may bs had at present to
the different tribes, by means of government ef
tabliftimeats in various parts ef their territory— '
their tranquil state, and the freindly difpolition ef
some of th,:ir chiefs—difjpofe the Society to believe
that theit ai'tlrefs is not premature. They presume
that nothing more is neceflary to excite the atten
tion and secure the of their fellow citi
zens than to present thair plan to the consideration
ef the public.
THE SossCarßtas, penetrated with a convic- j 8
tion that their duty and happiness a'ru involved in I 1
promoting the knowledge and diffufing the spirit f
of the i hriflian religion, do affoeiate for the pur
pose of fupportinga m ffionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and the frontier settlements of the '
United States, as an eligible mean of accomplifh
i*g so desirable an oHjc<2.— Aware of the perni
cious effects r>f party thev think ii necessary
to adopt for their gu ; de (as well as to exhibit to
the world the principles by which they will be '
governed) rhefoH"w ; ng
CONSTITUTION.
I. The affociatien Ihall be called the Mijjioiary So
ciety.
11. Any person figuing the constitution and paying
the sum of one dollar to tho treasurer and the
(lirthet sum of one dollar yearly, is. a.PiembeT
during the payment of his or her fubfeription.
ill I"he lOeiety fliall eleA by ballot an acting com
mittee to consist of a treasurer, secretary and se
ven members, one third of whom lhall be re-
J newed every fix months—five fliall form a quo
rum to trarifaft business and have power to call
special meetings.
IV. The focikty shall meet every three months at
an appointed place to enaft the necessary laws
' and deliberate on the report of the committee
■ refpedting the Itate and progress of the institu
tion.
V. No miilionary shall be considered qualified who
is not capab'e of praSiGng or teaching some ufe
ful art aswell as a rational fyllem of religion.—
Ne other tef (hall be required, excepting, evi
-2 dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
fecStarian names and adopt simply that of Chris
. ' TIAN.
. VI. Should the funds of the society permit, tftfti
tutions f, r intruding the Indians in the agri
r cultural and mechanical arts, shall be established
among them.
j, VII. As fooa as a fufficient number have fub
y fcrlfied, the committee shall publilh under their
[j infpeAion a periodical mifceUany entitled the
r " MiJJionan," and the profits anting from the
sale shall be applied to the funds of the society.
I *„* No alteration or amendment (hill be made
[. in the above conftitu'ion. without the content of
two thirds of the-members. and everyTuch im-
II provement must be proposed tluee months prior to
y its discussion
i 3 The conflitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-street.
,1 I'he Little Turtle, one of the mod influen
e rial characters among the Indians North Wed of
the Ohio (who is now in this city) is very anxious
to forward the views of the society. The Inter
preter, capt. Wells, is also very faujruine as to the
c pfpeit success, and promUes ail the aid in his
E power. February 84.
e Balkenridge—for sale
T.confifts Of 9xo acres, dlmoft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
" Hcrl of St rling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five .farms, four of which are bounded on the
I East by the river Pafaick.
u Ther' are en it a number of buildings, forming
lt afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
" is a very convenient one and ( a fmallexpence would
e put it in complete repair.
d The orchard conufls of 1500 fins bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
traft near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
" variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
o belt and moS delicious kinds,
it Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics ami
>f Forest Treos, that add to tha beauty and eonveni
!, ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
1- from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
•- from Morris-Town, and la frem Springfield—lt
|e is wooded and watered.
To favc treuble, the price is five pound pr. acre
1. in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
[U February 1. eodtf
, d COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies,
r- Ty /THS. GROOMBRIDGE with muoh pleaf
y IVJL ureand refpedt, returns her sincere ac
-- knowledgemcnt tor th« liberal encouragement
c- (he has received during four years relidence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
c. public, so far from intending to decline her
:n school. (he has made a superior arrange'ment for
in the more convenient accommodatien of her
at fcholart.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
i- education is particularly attendel by Mrs.
Groon bridge and mailers excelling in ftieir
if rel'peiflive profrfßons.
b, Corner cf Spruce and Eleventh Streetj.
le Jnnejth, '797. s:mftf
id The fitsation is perfeiflly healthy : and made
a! i more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
to j of ground adjoining tlie house.
THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for fnle by WII.LIAM YoLinG, No. 54,
corner of Second and Chcfaut-: rc;tj,
In one large volume, S vo.
/Price if the coalmen paper, neatly bound, a dollart JO
cents ; fine ditto, in beards, 3 dollar!J
AMERICAN GAZETTEER,
EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a much
1 more fall and accurate Account, than hai
been eiven, of the State-, Provinces, Counties,
Gities," Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the West-India Islands,
and other Islands appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring tb« Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, Produ&ioiis, Commerce, Manufactures,
Ciiriofities, &c. of the ieveral Countries, and of
their important Civil Divisions—and the Longi
tude and Latitude, the Eearings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lus . w ith a parti.ular Description ®f 'The Geor
gia IVcfle.n Territory. The whole comprising up
wards of Seven Thouland (Mind Articles.
Collected and compiled from the bell Authori
ty, and arranged with great care, by, und under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, b. D.
Author of the American Univerfaltfcography—
Fellow of the merican Academy of rtsantf
Sciences —ar.d Member nf the Mafl'achufetts Hit
torical Society.
[Ulluftrated with seven new anil neat Maps.}
(Publijbed according to aB of Congrrfs.f
Also, EOtt SALE, as above,
Mr. Mor/e's Universal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dols. 50 Qts.
Ditto, abridged, at I dollar.
February 26. eo 4 {
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS* v GEORGE FORMAN,
FOR pmrtTINC BV SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months— entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY against
all the Vieligions and Governments of EU-.
: ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, llluminati, and Reading Societies. C«l
---lc&ed from (rood authorities
liy JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Profejfer of Natural Phil fopby, and Secretary to tif
Royal Society of Edinburgh,
Nam tua ret agkur paries cum proximus ardcl.
•JjT THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 fuhferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt shall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fu
! perior quality, which will comprise about 400
; pages neat octavo, handfoniely bound and lettered
j —tbe price will be one dollar a«d fifty cents.
Those who procure 1 a subscribers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
* ( * The above wot k comes from the pen of J.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
. estimation ; n the iiterary world—the fa&s therein
recorded are well fu" ftantiatei.', and thereafoning
and argumen s thence deduced, while they disco-
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amule »s well a' to in
ftrudl. A scene of villainy is developed by the
' author fuffieient to appal the stoutest heart.—The
' danger to be apprehended from secret focietiss Is
' clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human Ha
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard o' every
deviation ram the'ftraight path of religion and
of virtue, incont<)ftibly proved both to tbe politi
cian aßd tbe chrilban by stubborn and incontro-
T vertable f 3s.
Subscriptions taken in by G. Forman, AV 46»
tWiU:atn-Jirert, epfifit* the P»JI-Offiee, and by the refpet•
f rr 1 bookj'eellcrs in *.Vew York and Philadelphia.
* February aB. .
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, prop' Ting to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Eihif fop falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnace?,
!" a complete Boreing Machine, and a s very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Eorgr, all
in perfc& repair, as are all the Water Works conne£l
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnacet
i- j were lately built {or the purpose of casting Cannon
i- for this State.—There are abou' two. thoulaod acres
d of Land, one half of which isijnder wood, the other
very fine arable Land |prod the belt Hay and
3- Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there*
jf fully proves the exsellency cf the meiai, which is
ie luperior to any in this ceuntry, and probably,
to any in the world ; for not owe ot fixty«nrii e
y Lately nnde, although some of rhe 24 were bored
[g into 32 pounders, have taii<d on proving. The fitu
r at ion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
0 manufa&urp, a»d a place ot arnvs lying in the state
of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from several land•
t0 ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage thai can result from a plrnty of water issuing
from 1 large natural »pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful-purpoles The purchaser can beaccommodat
of ed wi'h all the stock and utensils, and have poffeflion
as an or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
r- may be made in the mean time for Blaft ira
it mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
is in good order, with foinc coal, Ore, Sec• See. For
terms, apply to Mr joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Co. grefs for this State ; Mr, Waterman, on
iheprenufes, or tothepropiietor in New-York.
WILLI/fcM NEILSON.
it Dee. 1. 3 awtf
'a Wanted, to Hire,
ie \ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
lX the centre of the city—for which a generous
ig rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or cin
fe more for a longer lerm. Inquired the Printer.
Id Oft. 17. eotf
f . FOR SALE,
id Several fonts of Types —half worp,
at Including Long Primer, about 400 wiight, in
le good condition, and would answer the purpose #f
a country Printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer.
ii- " —•
" City Commissioner's Office,
' 'January 11th, 1798%
re FOR THK INFORMATION OF THF CITIZENJt
n- '"["'HE following arrangement is made by the
JL said commissioners, for cleanCng the
* ftrstts, &c.
Diflriift No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
~~ street, to the south fide ot Mulberry flrect; to
be under the fuperinttndance of Nicholas Hicks.
S. a From the south fide of Mulbrry fireet, to
if. the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under-the
, c . fuperintendance of William Moulder.
Nt 3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
in tlie nonh fide of Spruce street, to be under the
be fuperintendanse of Jolirph ClaypooJe.
e r , 4. From the Koith fide of Spruce street, to thf^
or south fide of Cedar ftrtet, to be under the fu
,er perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwlinl^
ite Juji Published,
r '- And to be had of Messrs. Dofcfon, Campbell,R«».
e ' r Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers ic ' c
city .price one dollar, twinty-f.vt cents, in bojr^t
New Views of the Origin of the
de Tribes and Nations of America
lot By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON,
Jure ao.