m< > - r-J- -v' f ' V 1
- oftije Pb^delpbia
___ % J OHN Ward Fenk-o, N°- ito Chefnut
- : *■" ' l4 DE LP "' DUCEMfiER j,. ,-,8~
- . ~ " — 1 L
£ <y The price cf this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Siibfcri
'cers reading in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclofmg and directing; *
and unless fmeperfon in this city will £
become answerable for the fubfcrip- v
(ion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance. ar
, , —.—■ —— p 1
Jamaica Rum. J
ti<
THE CARGO, V
Of the Clip CHARLES, Captain Salter,
Fr m the tforrh fide ot Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof -
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a:' South ffrctt Wharf.
No 6 peter blight.
r--s_. THE SHIP J
CHARLES,
Captain Saltsk,
""coppered,' mount twelve 6 pounders and thir'y- a i
ft V( . me n returns imn ♦ihtely to Jamaica, for to
Passage apply a* above.
dee 17 d,m •
'For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE,
3TT3yI The Swcdifh Snow
MARIA,
Hans OtOF Kock, commander.
A remarkably good vessel, about aio ton* bur
then. A freight to Cadis, or any part of the
M««ttfer:anean would be preferred. Enquire of the
Captain on baard at Vinci-Street Wharf
dec 17 *
For Sale.
THF: Soßseaiiii!*. intending to deelinf the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &i, -
The shop is elegant, commodious. and fulfici.
eotly known for the extensive business oone inth*.
wholesale and retail line ; the situation «quaL ti
any in the city, being »t the coiner of Walnut an«
Seaond flfleets. The whole, or any part of thi
Stock, will be fold, as will belt suit the purchaser
Th» terms may be known, by applying to
james moore, jun.
IVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen.
Kfulbcrry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkabl)
(loot, of an easy draught of water, rigging ii
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails s
well, and in complete order forthelumbjrbufinefs
"£S*'&n perfaos"tmieße3 _ W tffe late firm
GMtkivait & Bittern, IV. is -xjmfmmta, C 1
tbieait W Afoore, or the . futifci\ >er, are eatneftly ;
requested ta make ffeedy payment to .< j
n JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 3 |
" BOSTON BEEF,
200 B-Vrels in Shipping Orckr.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aortii Fror.ijlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT P'ESSEL,
about 300 Tons burthen.
i HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
ncv 21
WILMINGTON,
11 ffiOJTH-CAHOH N A,
J -THE SHIf
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
WlLLtake&freight on very'mo
dtrate terms, and fail about the
Hthicftwit. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimei's vyharf, or
Willings tsf Francis, f
. . Penn Street,
T ft e
i
Ship Broker's Office,
And Cammijfton Store,
No. 119, South front Strtft,
Next d«ar to ihe Custom House.
THE Sehforiber, encouraged By the advice of
his friemls, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Infuranct Broker. Hepropof
*s to buy and fell veflels and every thiag relat- (
'ng thereto—aflift mailers of vessels and others ,
in entering and clearing at the Cnftom-Houie,
procuri»g and (hipping freight, fettling Inl'ur- .
ance and all odier mercantile accounts, and ,
have on hatid the oeceffary Blan ki and Stamps. .
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in-
formation in general mercantile matters. ,
•—From a knowledge gained by long experience (
of every bi*anch of bufineft he hopes to be use-
M to thole who pleafc trt fivnr him with, their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
noveorber TO §
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer 1
No. 1, Jouth Third (Irect,
HAS RECEIVED,
the last arrival from Europe, a large assort
ment of the fafhionable Goods in hi s line,
And Las conjlantly for sale a general ajfort
ment 'f
Firfl rate London fuperfine Broad
Cloths
CafFinurcs
Partrrns of ail fcimU
And every other article in the gentleman's line
b T and retail.
<Jccemb?r to
For sale by the fiibfiHber \
At Portsmouth (n.h.)
TUZ HULL
NEW SHIP,
80 feet keel, 47 i-i beam, la feet hold, 1,10
between decks ; about 330 tons ; wirh marts, spar«
an-) all the carpenter's and smith's work com.
pk ted ; built of good fonnd feafuncd timber and
plank ; launched in November, 1796,aud ha- been
ipell taken care of since thn time.—.Further par
ticulars may be known !■j applying tc Mtlfri.
Wharton & Lewis, Philadelphia, or to
THOMAS THOMPSON,
december jj 3aw.tf. [
FOR BREMEN,
THE BRIG
fON y
ifaSpfy. Abend Wutiko, Mastik,
NOW laying at Henry Pratt'i wharf, the firft
below Race (lrei t—fhe is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twen y tons burthen ; will fail with
all poflible dispatch For freight or passage apply
PRATT KINTZING,
no. 95, north Water-Jiri'et.
W!io have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ.
Ticklenburgb* Pat;erhofnes
Oznabrig* Checks
Heflfrans Strijwt
Brown rolls » Slipptrs
Coffe? bags Cam>,ricks
Platillas Twine
Brittaoias Glass tumblers
Eriopailies Port wine
Creas ala Morlaix Window gli/s
Bielefield linen Bnmftone,
DoroUs
december 13 th.fa.mw.3w
— b
Nicklin & Griffith,''
H T« FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale or piece,
(No* 1 & 8)
.'One bale of fenming-twine
: .Cppper ill flrects, from 14 by 48 td 48 by 60 i
inches J
Two tuhs raised copper still bottoms
' Qaeefu' ware, aiTorted in crates
London porter in bottles, contained in cases
Empty port-wine bottles
Yeliow ochre in calks
Cochineal in ferons
Indigo in do. & tasks , I
35 cafe J and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dinii- ,
ties, muflinets and pullicat handkerchiefs, in
; * small atturted packages, calcnlated for the
Well India market
Ji trunks printedcallicoes
4 bales callimerp'!, affort«d
f MS- .. "
Sheathing paper
' English nails in cniks, affortad, .
The Brig
AMAZON,
F6R' 5Ai-E OR CHARTt?. j.
December 19 mw.&fa.tf j.'
DRIED PEACHES, i
} In barrel*
Demijohns (
Claret "i q
Porter, and J-bottl.es.
?<•« Wine J
\i)d Cork.-- in fisles—For sale by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
)ec. 20 eo6t
Book-Keeping. j
Wants a Place, f
s
4N AN ELIGIBLE '
ZCOMPTING -HO USE or OFFICE, j
A ! ERSON that Writes well, is a Ready Reck- j
oDer, a praflical 3ook Keeper, and can be j
welhecommended, a .line, (or personal applica- j
tiondlrc<ftcd t» M. M.'No. 71, North Seventh
ftree will be duly attended ta.
NB Books cloftd, and new Accompts open- _
ed, irtHerfhip Accompts adjuftad, or any business
in thßook-Keeping li»e, done at the above place,
orabad of Evenings.
del 7 ' 5_ J
This Day Publijhed, d
Andr sale at the Office of the Editor, No. ti
119 Chefnut-ftreet,
fPrice \-%th of a Dollar,) <
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At thequeft of the Inhabitants of the Towr ot
BCFON, in commemoration of the arini* r
verjy of American Independeace.
By Josi ah Surlier. t
" "ie inroads upon our public liberty, call i(
" for repation—The wrongs we have sustained,
5 call injustice. That Reparation and tbu e
' JuftiseAiay yerbe obfahied, by Union, Spirit, f
' and Finns'- But to divide and conquer was ti
' the ma» of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
• and to limit? «i>d enslave hath been the p.-inci- \
' pie of abis votaries foorn that period to the
present.' 1
: Objervans ojt the Bostoi P»rt-Bi!l, Lic.p. y&-
Sy she late J. <*uincy, jun.
: auguftr
' NOTICE. 1
PURSVNT to the last will and teflament J
cf JIDSAY CdaTS, EiQi deceased, will
• he fob! Public Vendue, on Thursday, the
third da>f-J*ojiury next, at tea o'clock, in
the forenn, at ihe'h«ufe of Thomas Lowry,
(fipn of e Bird ir Hand) in Upper Merion
' Townfc. MontgomeryJ=-umy h
valuable Grift IVfill, p
AND ABOUT
I T\nty-five acres of Land, g
Situate the said to- nlhip, several acres of
which nraeado a-, and the greater part ot tli» a
remainr wood land.—The conditions of iaie
r will be tfe known by ' ti
'ACfITET, COATS,
Dec. Jt
FOR SALE
By the Sub/cribers,
on VERy LOW rimu
WAX CANDLES,
! »'t»iut jasvir,
Either by the fiagle box .4 24 1b.. or by the qna n
tit y. n
Wif/iags & Francis.
' 14
REMOVAL""
George DOBSON,
■ ll " r ' kn,,s 3,1,1 the Public i a . cn «ral
ft-"s
the corner o, Third now
a very extensive afford,,; " HOW
DjRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE ■ a ßES£.^rj'sEJSdN,
n t. n - HtCH HE HAS JUST RJCMviO
P 7rl e An,,able,.^ d
from U>»d,.p, R „d Chuftpeak
from Liverpool, and will b. lold lowW £1 I|b|b
or approvad nous ;,t a (hort dste, vis,
, London 7-4 Superfine Clothe and
Cafiimeres, fafhionable colours
Tforkftiire 7 4 dcr. and do.
Mixed aod plain coatinc^
VVdchfl annds
beaver, foe .Spencers
Jeannets and Tabhy cords
Velvets a«d valvctteens
Vclvcrets and thickferc^
7» S, 4 4 and ii-Bcotton and lui*n checks
7 8 arid 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz r*nd chintz furniture
Furnirurc cotreos
Do. oimjties
Fur pie and chmt* Ihawls
Sit-k do.
Canichhair do.
Silk, cotton, and \rorOffd hojfe
Indi.i a»d Bricifii muslins 0/ every description
Black and white orapc
Tiffany aid paper hm
Hati assorted in fnrtall cases
Umbrella*
Pollings ans fattins
Laces ar*J Q^gings
Ribbands*
Si He Modes
Superfine Fr-ench
Cambrick muslins
Do threads . ..
Pulicatand Madras
slnd an elegant ajfortment of
Brufiels and Wilton Carpetiag.
novtmbcr n v
R. TAYLOR7~~~
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIX TH-IT REST,
Respectfully mform> the Public that
he continues to teach Ladies th« Piano
Forte as usual.
Nov. 6. tuthsa
2 HIRTY DOLLARS,
VTJ"ILL be piid for apprehending and lodg-
Thomas Jones, seaman, formerly resided in
Meade Alley, Southwark, light hair, frefheom
p'exion and blue eyes, altout five-feet nins inch
es high.
Thomas Brown, 6rd'nary seaman, about five
feet three inches'Jiigh, -light hair, grey eyes aud
swarthy, about 11 yeare of age. also,
Richard ordinary seaman, about five
fee: lix iuchet high, aged twenty-three years,
light hair, blue eyes and swarthy. Culven and
Prown'are both nitivea of Philadclpliia, and are
supposed to be concealed by I'ome ot' their ic
quahitanre in this city.
" STEPHEN DECATTT.*,
.Commander of the Delaware
Sloop of VV.ir.
de« t 7 .
' .
The Subscribers have for sale,
Malaga Wine, i:i c.i(k<
Red Pqrt ditto. iuPn-e-,' Hhdf and.quarter caflcs
Old Madcira-dittq, i?t lor immediate iac
French Brandy '
Spanilb ditto, (nat cotoifl)dj
Medoc Clarit, in Caict
Fir fort Ifinglafj
I new Cable, 9 inches
1 ditto 11 inches
1 new Hawser, 7 inches.
Philips, Cramond Cs.
dec 17 3t
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of doc
tor Hugh Hodge, deeeafed, are
to make imnjediate payment—and those having
demands agfiinft the £ftate aredelired toautheu
ticate and pl-efent them to.
MARIA HODGE, adm'mijlratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, adm'mifirator.
nov »o §
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; made aj the Trea.
fury of t're United States, for the renewal of
the following eer-ificates of Funded Debt, Hand
ing in the name of Rabat Whitwortfc, of Chelfea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the (hip Ellice, Hatvey, ftom London for
New-York, captHred by the French, and foppofed
to be loft.
Nb-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated* New-
York, 18th April, 1796, f»r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for doHars 400.
SAJMUEL MILBANK.
November 18 d6w
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT tothe last will and testament of ,
Michael C'ATTS.deccafed, a valuable ,
Plantation & Trad of Land,
containing one hundred and seventy three acres, 1
th« Testator's late residence, situated in North
Sufqoehanna Hundred, Ceocil county, Maryland,
about three mite* from the tide-water of Sufque- 1
hanna,and at a convenient d4ftance from fu-veraJ [
places of worship of Friends and Pre/bytereans.
Oil the prenaifts are a Tan yard and convenien
ces belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dvvelling
liouftf, liable, orchard and other improvement',
with ii or 15 acre* of good watered mead w, and j
a fuflicient proportion timber. t
For terms apply to the fitbferiber, in Wtft-Not- I '
trngham, aSout 3 miles from the premises.
THOMAS WARING, F-xecator :
1 ath'mo. If th, $
~— ~i
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now lunUiij* at Street >wharf,
Fmfrtir proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimflv ne.
- An afTortment of valuable DRUGS,
CON SISTIN C OF
Opiim, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor I'mar, Jet. 3tc.
' F.(Tence« of Lemtni rnd Bergamot
Writini; paper
» Swe«t oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olives, anchovies and capers
■ 'Juniper bir.ies
d AL S o.—ltalian lutefli ings
J Satins
r Cra.^s
5 UiWirellas
Remairiißg on Hand, _
St. Croix. Sugars,
r , Claret in cifus
Old Madnira Wine of the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
« Novemher 5
Bon-d 6c Brooks,
1 CoRMa of Markit and Sixth limits,
HA/E RKCEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull r
A Large and general assokmint of
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now openirg for sale. at the moll
reduced prit'co, for cafli or the nfual credit,
is nov 17 §
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambro' caflts, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf.
' —Ly — ■ '"f^ ll
JAMAICA RUM,
A Carjfi now landing at SouthJlreet wharf,
tOK. SALE BY
■PSTER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores an the Wharf,
WHO ALSO «I)SK) ros SALI,
BRANDY, ift and 4tk,prool
Madeira and Port WINRS, &c. See.
Nor. I. ' dtf
NOrfCET
PURSUANT to a Refolveofthe Board of
Truflees of Walhington Academy, in Som
effet county, Maryland, authorising Wjliiam
. Polk, efqr. myors Sakuhl Wilson, and
William [ones, Members of said Board, to
- procure a principal tearher for said Academy.—
NOTICE is hereby given, that a gentjeman quali
fiad to teach the Greek and Latm Langusge , Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and such other
branches of Literature as it is customary to teach
t in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
-3 ment and it is presumed will be well accommodat
ed in of this Academy. The build
ing is fpacicus-'and will accomodate at lead City
' Students.
Proposals may be addrelTed to John Dennis, No.
- 161 Aroh-ftreet, or Williara Winder, accountant
: in the Navy department, Walnut ftrtct, Phitadel
t ph* J 4 or to either of the ;hre« gvnttemen above
~ r " -a ' 'J
1 Jec 17 i „
; W A N'T-'E'D.
Convenieut Lodgings, for an elderly
. I.ady, in a refpe<flab!e private family, where
1 there are 110 children. Enguire at this office.
dec 4, d m
: John Dobbin,
BOOT & •SHOEMAKER.
' TI
iv li.yptft.ffe iri grnerai that lie carries im his
hnf.ncfs at No 99 Soul',<• Sramtf-frreet, nearly op
p»fite the Mart hints CoHct h<iufe vhsfc pen
tldmen finppUed. is ihe qeattft and best
Winner —he nll i.j te .ind.- iio n please to fa
*9r h«n .wiib- no.atle«:icn
or i'xti ti. .11 Oil liij si le fhaifht- « render
hifn won by of their encouragement.
. ;N. B. Orders received will be punJfualiy at
tended to.
{november 5 J
NOTICE. "
AM. persons who have anv demands againfl
eftate of the latt WOlli-m Clifton,
deceafcd.and who hiv« nec I'.ready produced their
tfeir accounts, are requeftsd to fenl them to the
(Kblcriber at no 171, noi th«cond street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, jgi. m&th4»r
: FOR S A. L
A Tan-Yard, with about t! irty two acres of'
Land, at Rock-Rao. Ob the Head of tjid
1 Tide water of Sufqjiehannah, in Harford county,
f Maryland, wbereon is funk fevenrjr-five Vats, a
' StO'eMill and Tan House, with conveniences ef
Water and other necefiaries for an extensive Yard,
a Dwclling-Houfc. Kitchen and 1 divwi other ufcful
buildings is ero>sLd thereon, some ot the land, in
lots well improved, a good Herring k-ifhery on the!
shore. f heimpiovinj I own of Havre de Grace;,
is about fix milesdiftant and vcffels miming dowv
the River, pass close by the premises. A conve
■ ntem situation to get Bark, a ftotk of which with'
the utensils for Tanning, aod all the hides in the
Vats may he had with the Yard. For terouapply
• to John Wilson, near Harford Town, or the Sub
fcribcr on the premises
ISAAC WILSON,
I 2th mo. 14th 4aw;w
Bank of the United States
. November 19, 1778.
NOTICE,
THE STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the
United States are informed,that accordingto
. the Statute oflncorporatic a,a GeneralEleaion for
twenty-five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank of
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the 7th of January next, at 100'clockiu
the forenoon.
' Aud purfuaM to the eleventh feflion of tl e bye
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are alio
notified to aflemble' in general meeting, at the
fame place, on Tuesday, the Bth of January next,
at 6 o'clock in 'he evening.
, G. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article.
' j Net more than tbrsc (mirths of the Directors in
office, exeluGte of the President, fliall be eligibl.
| lor the next enfuinjr year, km the Director who
lhail be President at the time of an election, may
always be re elciSed.
r.ovcrabcr 16 * v.i tE
U
TheWners of the fliip NEV-JtRStT from
j Can tun expeft iu a few d?ys part »( die
Cargo of that vcflcl in io\vti, ,
-—coKSftrkpc of—
A general afiortmcnt of Silks & Satrins,
1 1 Naukeens,- White and Yellow,
C*flT»
1 China Ware air rted •
Bohca
WL'-hi
Young Hyson 0 a °'
Hyson, and ; L "t" and SbuU
Imperial j
tor terms *f Sale—apply at the Stores of
Nicklin if Griffith,
yire.iiald M'Call,
Wm. Read C».
George Plumfled, ■ "
dec q6 ?
For Sale,
At the late diutlSkf.houfe of lleurt Hut,
n<Wf
On Wednelday morning,
(id Janvarj^
At 10 o'clock—a tjuantity elejtaitt and f»-
• «" luab.'e , < 4 *
Household Furniture,
Ccofirting of
I .urge and fmili lool:ii:g [!a)Tc - »
1 Carpet* mud carptrmg ;,
Chairs, fopk.v aud tables, of faperMf Kor]*.
manfhip and in the ftilc
■ Geroodole* lufires
A large affi'itment of plated ffst-d wars
a number el" valuable
lleds and bcitiing
China and gUf, ware
r Stationary, marble flabs,and a vcrietyef other
aititles
footman y Co.
December 16 >t ,u r
P WELL BE SOL 0;
' At Public Vendue on the i\lh day if January
next, in the evenings
Two tra&s or pieces of Land
Situ atb in the state ot Tennefee, one c! them
lying and being in :he county of Sum-
the Head water*, of I lit.n.s creek, contain
ing one thousand seven hundr d and fourteen
acres,and theotUer situate in Hawkins comity, in
j. -the fame flat", containing five ihou&na a;r ts .
Oonditions of sale will b cufh,to pa(d on the
execution of the deed. Inlo-nmi.i'n, relative to
the-titles, may be had on application to J.nhua b.
Bond.no —.corner of High and Sixth greets,
0 Philadelphia.
" Shannon fc? Folk, auctioneers.
December 26 y
h All persons iudebted to the Estate
. of Joseph Anthony, fen. deceafcd, are re
. quested tu make immediate payment: —And all
. those who|havc any demands agalnft fad estate,
Y are desired to produce them legally attested to
tbe fubferibers for fettlcment.
>. JOSIAH HEWES, ")
t JOHN MORTON, C Executors
JOSEPH ANTHONY, J
c December x 6. , - ,
< 7 - h. Tft f nr t>„, nr " mor£_itcars
1 [ In Pear, neap. Th i r dTs TREET~~~ r ~
■ A rievy Btick Coach-House,
Will contain two carriages and a wi.U a
complete Stable Tor Mu'r f.orftt—, ~,,1 v to
'* PETER BLIGHT,
, _ , -tiOct Jlreet.
■ * dior
1 Malaga Wine,
In quarter Calks—for sale by
i - Philips, Cramond & Co
' due. 16
; Notice is herehy Given,
That application will be 'We at the
- Bfak of the United State, for the renewal o(
the following certificates of Bank flock, Ibndine
in the name of HoJgfon Atlir.loc of I.
which were loft from on board the Swallow
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
1 persons concerned arc defiFed to take notice
No. 2474, ifined in lieu of 1801,
r 1892, 5662 and 16%, for 4 shan s.
No. 3020, lffued in lieu ot uocc, anj
H057, for 3 shares. 7 fheres.
THOxMAS M EL'EN & Co
' d.,n,
English wrought Nails.
' '"'ported in the JlAp, Molly and J) ana, from
f tivti roQ^.
400 Casks of,. Nails,
I C°?J ] IV NG 0( & 8f!; ,od
. y^, o,l 'S 1 lJ ( " mi J fuitibte'fo'r ihe Toutliern
. -Jnarket—6d, Bd, iod, fid, and j c d, fine drawn
: l 11 H 4 » ? rtll 6 clouts-fprißs—
lucks—foupper na,!,_fhcatMsg nails, fc?Y.
'OK ULI BY •
Robert Denifon, jimr.
i . , »7 Market ftieet.
' — ; Ji - L
Insurant* Company rf the state of Pennsyl
vcnic,
THb STSCKHOLDFRS ?rt hereby notified
' an for thirteen nireilor* to serve for
; °*e year, will be hc/d at the CVmfany'. Office
on Mo»d»y the fwtcenth day 0/ January next at
Eleven O'clock.
JAMES S. COX, Prefi.'tnt.
dcc ' *7- dt M.J
: N O T I C E.
C ALL persons having demand* agaixft Inftr.ne
, and Bacon,fformerly of this city,fShonkeepers)
1 "e rtqueiledto deliver their accounts properly
attested, to eith.ro: tl* fubferibers, on or be
. fore the fifth day of January uexr, as a dividend
, will then be made of all the estate afiigned to
them According to an agreement made at
, the meeting of the creditors, the accounts are
to be rendered without interest as they or ginal
ly flood before the affignmcnt. »
Ai the divdend will be made upon the account*
which arepr.-xlueed by the time nerein mention
-1 ed, an* that may be offvied afterward;. mu!l of
■ eourfe be excluded.
JACOB BAKER ) AKmees
ROBERT RAfIVBY I {f
RICH. R. SMITH 5 r.ftone & Bacon.
dtc *7 toits}General .
THE OSicfr, of the Militia of the City *nd
County of Philadelphia, pre requested to
aflVrable at the State-hoiifc, on Tuesday the ift
day of January, at n o'clock a. m.—thence to
proceed to pay the compliments of the season to
the Pr»fldent of the United Statei.
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOSIAH HAIIMER, Adjt. Gen.
dec. 28.
Delaware £sf Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby netified, that the
Ele&ion for PreCdent and Managers, for the
ensuing year, will be held at the Company's Office,
on the firll lecond-day in January n«xt, at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna £3* Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
Eleilioa for Prefidtnt and Managers, for tkj ensu
ing year, will b« held at the C'npany's Office, on
ihe ftrft second- cay in Januir ext at ten o'alock
GEO. WORRALL, fec'y
tt Delaware & Schuylkill Canal Company.
dee 19 <j t e
Bank of Pennsylvania,
December 27ti>, 1798.
NOTICE i« hereby given to the Steckholders of
the Bank of Pn n'ylvania, that an Election
of Nineteen DIRECTORS, to ftrve for one year,
will fcc held at the Bank, on Monday the fourth of
February next, at 10 o'clock.
JONATHAN SMITH, Caftier.
Extract from the fcvenih ScSion of fkl A3 of
Incorporation.
" Article id. Not more than fourteen of the
Directors by th; Stockholders,andaftuaily
in offic , exclufi*e ©f the Frcfidsnt, shall be eligible 1
for the next fuccediog year ; but the Director j
who (hall be Prcfident at the time of an ek'Aion,
may always he re-cleAed."
. - dt 4 r
Philadelphia Population Company.
THE share-holders ;ire hereby
fotiiied, that an elcfli -1 f> r -'retideut, Managers
and o.her officers for the ensuing jear. will ht
lifldat the Company's office no. ,s},north Fourth
ftreer. o» Wedntd'day the pth of January next, at
It o'clock.
Sol. Mcracbe, Sec'ry.
dec. 27. dtm
NOTicEr : !
THP COP ARTKEKSHTf OF (
HUDSON isf YORKE, t
i< this day diflolved by mutual corfent. All per- ]
font indebted to lai-i firm are requeued to make t
immediate payment—and those who have any de-
nnnds are requeued to prefest them for settlement
toWII.LIAM HUDSON, who is duly iuthorifed
to adjust the fame. *
REMOVAL. 1
WILLAM HUDSON, b
Has ran oved from No. 54, north Front flreet,
to No 8, Chcfnut, near the corner of Front, (to "
the Here formerly occupied by Mr. John Mil- h
Liß.junr.) b
Where he has for sale on his usual low terms,
an extensive ajfortmcnt of
D R Y G OOI) S.
December 18 d.?w
Ibe Subscribers,
flavereceivedbytheClothierfrom Liverpool <l*
A CONEIC.NMtNT OF TEN CASBS OF ! P
wil'l 1 h;
Hifpcfc of jier package, on liberal terms. 1
Medfcrd & Willis. j
No. •}%, Norih Front near Arch-flrect. |
WANTED, m
ABOUT fifry Calks of
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
Apply as above. t
«^ec
FLOUR, FOR SALE, ! ar
DELIVERABLE at N fw -Caftle or Port j"
Pccn, by ; Ps
LEVI HO LLINGSWORTH «tSON j UI
dec 19 d«w ;he
NOTICE. m
THE Public are cautioned n>t to trust any of Ci
the puople belonging to the Swedish Snow Maria,
■on my account.
Hans Olof Kocky master.
dec 17 $
14. Pipes Madeira Wine,
FOR SALE BY
Crooke Stevenson,
No 4, South Water-street.
dee iz §
(bt
On THURSDAY, the 3d Jaunary, ,'j
at 6 o'clock in the evening, T ,
At Benson & Yorke's Auttion-Room,
No. t9, South Front-street, p.
WILL BE SOLD, "
A small.but well-chosen and feleft Li bran,' of aj|
Medical Books, &c. m ,
together with sundry Surgical Inftrumenta, lif
The property of the late Doctor Francis B. Sayre. trl
BENSON & YORKE.
dec. 7. dts
Black India Lustrings. od
th
A. quantity just received and of the firft
firft quality, th
TO DE SOI.n LOW FOR r.ASH cil
At No. 55, north Third, flreet by va
SAMUEL C. COX. th
dec. 28 diw *'
TO BE RENTED, en
The dwelling house No. 153,
foath Water street, together with a flack of stores in
and wharf adjoining, enquire as pa
JOSEPH SIMS. de
Dee. >9 daw
— th
Wheat, Ginseng, &c. P a
fo
4000 buftiels of white Wheat, of excellent all
. ' quality to
Is Calks of Ginfang k r
30 Pijes of Madeira Wine, three years old
100 Barrels of Prime Beef
Poik to half b' Is. and barrels S 3
For Sole by I' 1
JOHN SKYRIN, fp
No. }(, North Front-street. '
dec 16 3awiw j lat
Xfte (Idnitm.
to PHILADELPHIA ,
ift
'° MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 31.
to
Fellow Citizens,,
New year's eve is approaching, when it is
feared that the idle praftice which has for
he some time past prevailed in the city and li
he berties of Ihooting aut the old year, and
:e. Ihooting in the new one, as it is absurdly
cn called, will be repeated, which has often
been attended with dangerous and alarming
consequences. Therefore every legal endea
vor should be used to check the evil and to
. _ fupportthe violated laws-os our country in
on this instance so frequently insulted. 'Die
ck citizens are earnestly requested to leud their
afMance to bring to punilhment the offen
ders ; and the constables and watchmen are
!)' particularly enjoined to be vigilant and ac
tive, in arreftingfuch daring violators of the
public peace. Jt is fincerelv to be hoped
that the civil officers and otli; r p;ood citizens
of in the county will afTift the city police to
Jn carry into effeft so uleful n regulation,
ir, ROBERT WHARTON, mayor,
of December 19.
The printers will f-vve the public by in
i ferting the above daily in their papers until
j new year's eve.
e MR. FENKO,
>• ! I observed in vour ]>a;*r of Saturday laA
e ; nr. ajTcrtson that my late hafband Alexander
1 Philips, brought up a lick man from the fliip
'• Doborah. This, Sir, is an abfoluw falfliood.
My hulband, nor no other person ever
brought up any sick person, from that or any
other (hip. I fend you my deposition, and
that of two others, to prove the truth of
r what I now afiert.
s I am, Sir,
s ' yours,
; " MARY PHILLIPS.
Philadelphia, fl".
Personally before me, John Jennings, one
. Of the Aldermen of the laid City ; a;»*-artd
Abraham Snell, who being dufy sworn, doth
dt;p fe and fay, that on or about the 1 oth day
of July last, he went down the river, in a
boat in company with the late Alexander
Philips, with a view of taking some articles ;
to John Linkin, on board the fliip Deborah, <
then performing quarantine ; when arrived I
within hailing diftaiiceiwe were informed that
Linkin had been taken on (hore to the Ma- ■
rine Hospital. That neither him nor Mr. 1
Philips went on board the ship ; nor did they t
bring up any perlbns out of her. Further, i
that he boarded with Mr.' Philips from the !
Bth to the 18th of July, during which time, X
he knew of no lick persons having been I
brought to the house. c
ABRAHAM SNELL. ]
Sworn and Subscribed befc-'-e ') }
me the 27th day of Dec. 1798.^
■John Jennings, ajflcrman.
Jane McFarlin being sworn as aforefaid,
doth depose and fay 1 that /he lived with A.
; Philjps»lfccm^tK r M«.~~->- <r, > >'"*■-
LdCSSfB and knew of no sick persons
having been brought into the house, during
that time. ]i' er
JANE X McFARLIN, t
mark ' t J
Smorn and subscribed before )
me the 27th day of Dec. 1798.5
John Jennings, alderman. 0
Mary Philips, widow of the late Alexan- f
der Philips, being also sworn, doth depose ],
and fay, that no sick persons were brought a
into her house by her husband, or "any other •
person .during, the last fuminer. Further, !■'
that;no person from the Deborah boarded in e(
her house, except Jonathan Farthi who
had been sick and discharged cured from the a]
MarineiHofpital after the ship arrived in the
City. MARY PHILLIPS. f
Sworn and subscribed before > .
me the 27tb day of Dec. 1798. £ v<
John Jennings, alderman. t£
COMMUNICATIONS. \
cl
J
Mr. FennO, . t Ji
IN your paper of the 27th instant, I have 01
seen certain publications, signed' by John b!
Jjoyle, J. Milnor,'Atchefon Thompson, and fe
7 /hn Sparks, containing an account of some ' fp
of the proceedings of the late Alexander ! hi
Philips, during the time the Deborah was ab
riding quarantine ; which, in foine refpe&s, or
are contradi&ory to the account published by m:
me, and appear evidently to have been pub- so
lifhed at the instance of some person opposed co
to the foreign origin of the difeat'e, and per- ex
lnps by one whom a fair display of the truth, m
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, fa!
would fubjea not only tn censure and the all
odium of the inhabitants of this city, but to th
the penalty annexed to a breach of duty, de
That the contagion which gave origin to ne
the Yellow fever, was introduced into this he
city last year by the Arethufa from the Ha- an
vanna, and the prelent year by the Deborah, th
there are proofs " strong as those of holy or
Wrlt -" , Pa
Let those who still doubt, only have pati- ga
ence a few days, till the fads and observations th
of the College of Physicians, which are now th
in the press, come out; there, a damning fh
paper will appear which will make every A
delinquent tremble. an
In tlie mean time I beg leave to remark, wi
th-it even admitting that I was mistaken in an
part of the evidejice received from the per- pa
sons whose names have been just mentioned, wi
all that those men have laid amounts merely I ;
to this, that they did not know of Philips's de
bringing any person, either sick or well, to I
his house, from the Deborah ; but this is ne- na
gative evidence, and pitiful trifling with a of
question which is supported by the most re- kii
fpefuble and positive teftimonv of Mr. Ny
Thomas Town and Mr. John Purdon, the
latter of whom has ever adhered to truth
with the most rigid exaftn-fs. And both of
fl.efe men have declared, in the moltexprefs
terms,- that Philips himfelf told them that
he l;ad brought up one or more lick perlbiis
• with him.
That he went down to the Deborah, ap
pears from his conversation with Mr. Doyle's
wife, and from his conversation with Mr.
Sparks, from whom he pvrchalVd liquors on
the 10th of July, which was the 2d day of
the Deborah's quarantine. What were Mr.
or Doyle's reasons for withholding other parts
j- of information, which he has lince commu
ii(j nicatcd to Doilors Currie, James and Cath
, ral,-are l)eft know» to himlelfi His words
were, " Philips being foiled in his expecta
tions of getting on board the Deborah, aftep
a wards went down by land to the Hospital,
to with clothing for one of his lodgers then
• confined in the Hospital, which he handed
through the gate to some person, as they
would not grant him permission to enter the
t house." Atchefon Thoinpfon also foiemnly
r * declared, in the presence of the lame gentle
men, that he fav/ two of the belonging
to the Deborah in Alexander
Philips, in the the 28th July,
the fame evening that Alexander Morrifon
died at his house. '/"his Morrifon had 110
phylkian to attend him at all, but was seen
by Dr. Currie an hour after his decease, who
thought he had died of convulliojjs, as it
was not at that time known that the Yellow
.j fever had made its appearance in that city—
excepting in the instance communicated by
Dr. Proudfit, and which the Board of Health
(being better acquainted with diseases !) pro
nounced to be a mistake. The fame R< ard
ft afterwards appointed a carter to attend the
r sick in the Northern Liberties,
p If Thompson's teftimpny is to overrule the
I. declaration of Dr. Dori'ey and Currie who
r attended and questioned the man before he
y became delirious, tlien adieu to certainty,
i but as those gentlemen can not be presumed
f to have any interest in the matter diflindl
froin that of tlje red of the citizens, as they
have no chara&er to lose by the efhblilh
ment of the truth, the v;hole truth ; I am
inclined to think their tefliinony ought not
to be rejected.
The disease was evidently communicated
j rom sick carpenter at Thompson's to
I Mr. D. Jamie, clerk to Mr. Foster, v/ho
1 lodged in tiie fame room", and tied on his
neckcloth the day he was removed to the
1 hospital ;~and also to Thompson's child, a
hired girl and a inantua maker. A lodger
; at one Payes who helped down with the
, corpse cf Morrifon also took the disease a
few days after.
That Phillips had a man sick at his house
when lie was taken ill himfelf is evident from
the testimony of Dr. Griffins, and 1 believe
the rtjftlice ot Dete&or himfelf, ■vWth nil his
ingenuity at perverting and diiguifing the
truth Will not charge him with fnifreprcfea-
I tation. For farther confirmation of what
I have advanced, I (hill wait for the publi
cation of the college of phyficiar.s to which
I refer, and am your much-obliged and very
humble servant,
A Regimental Sit.gf.gnv
. ,-r . .wr OH A. ~
I
MH. FF.N'NO, i
IT is with' much fatisfa&ion I obfen"e :
the furpriling change that has.taken place in 1
the ccr.d'jft of this paper. From being the ]
mischievous engine of a desperate fafcion, it 1
haj become a harmless and diverting vehicle 1
of absurd abuse ; —although it has ever 1
groaned under a load of fallhood, virulence '
and sedition ; yet the art and address, the de- !
lufive appeals to the pffions of the ignorant, 1
and to the hopes of the needy, which were
intermixed, gave some influence to its poi- I
fonous efforts—but is now chang- i
ed ; and we find flat and palpable falthoods, j
too barefaced to deceive a child, and person- 1
ai abuse too grofe and I'oathfome, even to (
gratify envy and malice, fubrtituted fgr the t
cunning of the former editor. I read nhe (
Aurora with the fame kind of feeling and'di- t
version that I (hould listen to a Thames wa- 'i
terman blackguarding some pafling boat, in j
the general lingo of the place, without the t
least expectation or prefpeit of injuring the t
I character of the person attacked. Citizen t
Jasper is not the man I took him for I f
thought he was a cunning, wicked, danger- «
knave, but I find him an insffenfive
blackguard ;—I could take up a doren suCh
fellows at a bawdy house frolic ; and a few
special ones perhaps that could, beat him in
his own way. I hope then I (hall hear no ,
about the dangerous tendency of the Aurora
or the wickedness ot poor Jafpej. Let any J
man of tolerable good nature, and not under A
some particular chagrin, look over the third k
column of the Aurora of this-morning—if it
excites resentment in his breast I am much
mistaken ; there is a kind of easy impudent
fallhood throughout, so er.tirfly r.-gardlefs of it
all decency or colouring, that the novelty of P
the design gives a kind of phd'ure to the rea
der of curiosity in ftile—for instance, « a
new_ carpet was placed on the floor of tht
house of Representatives for the reception of, C
and in compliment to Dr. Logan,'"' when
that very house by a majority of more than 1
one third, in their address to the Prffident. si
palfed a severe and spirited cehfure on Lo
gan's ridiculous and wicked'cmbafTy. In
the fame manner of dine ft fallhood, and in v
the fame page, the frefident, Mr. P.ckc-- Ct
ftig, Wolcoft, M'Henry, Morris, Kin,,
Adams, Otis, Foster, Grifv/old and Smitii,
are served up . for different purposes, but m
without the lead injury to thfir charafters ; lr
and, as I almost believe from the face of the
paragraphs, without any intention, lurcly C
without any expeftation of injuring them
lam told the Aurora is so hampered with J
debt and difsrrace, that it must soon fink •
I hope the federal men who wish to fee their
names recorded as the friends and fupoorters
of their government, will give it a lift—this
kind of abuse is certainly honorable teftimo- 1
ny to their merit. ei
Th ffl • rv CH ARITY. °'
Thursday evening, Dec, iy.
of * MR. FF.VXOi
ess EVERYcmumftance, however trjrfial in
bat the abftraft, which will h lvc.a t:\yK-ncy to
jns expand the fentinients or give
a bolder circulation to public tairit, ought,
ap- at this ftiomenfous period of u«r country, to
le's receive the general encouragement. Tlic
ilr. costumes of every countjf, ancient and mo
on dern, have afforded to/trie political hillorian
of criterions whereby V 6 judge of national char
fir. after. LihTallwfpeaking, 1; trifles light as
rts air" may lead/fther to the downfal or the
iu- glory of a Mople. A Frenchman, in Lewis
th- XlV's ti/rie, offered, as a good reason for
rds his country's warring against Englilhmen,
!ta- that they eat ragout without vinegar, and
er- the' knowledge of this circumstance might
:al, mno (mail degree, inspire that nation with
ien "wonderful heroism in a war against her rival
led in cooker}-. It is no less true that cuuil-s,
ey though not so contemptible as t!;e foregoing,
he but apparently very remote from national
ily objefts, might be mads inftrumcntal to the
le- public welfare. Thus, I Conceive, that the
iff timely of the cockade in America,
[er (in itfelf merely a fanciful fafhiori) afforded
|y, the federal government a powerful
jn in the manifeftation of a public sentiment of
no approbation and confidence. And as a new
en means of keeping alive the martial spirit
to which has been excited in our youths, many
it discerning citizens are anxious, now that
iw the inclemency of the ieafon prevents their
occafional parades, that fotrie fashion would
]y be adopted by the volunteer corps, by which
th it would become incumbent on the members
o- to appear, on particular occasions and at par
rd ticuiar places in their uniform, the ho.nora
be ble mark of their patriotism ; as for instance,
on all public hoilidavs ; at church ; and, at
be the intimation of a vast riumbef of Ladies,
io I suggest, at the BALLS. The coming in
ie to luch a regulation, would not only keep
y, alive the ambition of our young volunteers,
■d but would, lam convinced, enkindle a lim
ft ilar spirit in others, whom nothing but the
■y fafhion can aftuate. A. S.
n _
Jt rrcm the Farmer's \\ ejckly Museum.
from a respectable Coy-respondent at Nasb
-0 viUt) Tennessee.
Q Presuming that you can have no objection
s to hear, from thele south weltern parts of the
e United States, the news current here, 1 (hall
a detail to you such int-ili®£uce, asfromcom
r mon it ort, I suppose is founded in fa ft..— ,
e By several gentlemen, arrived here from the
a Naritchez and New Orleans, we are infor. i
med, that the running of the line, between
Ui and our neighbours, the Spaniards, has ;
n aftually commeuced : that it has been cut I
e out as far as the dividing height of land, be- 1
s tween the Miffifippi and Mobile waters; i
e an 3 that, throsgh the mutual good under- 1
. (landing of the parties, it is rapidly prjgrcf- I
. firg. We learn, also, that Governor Sat- I
- gcant. pursuant to the laws of the United <
b States, has issued proclamation, prohibiting i
: the introduction of Negro slaves into that 1
government ; and and that the people are <
highly fatisfied with the (late of affairsthere ; t
that General Wilkinfon and retinue had i
arrived there, with part of the American t
troops, who, together with the inhabitants. •-
The noted Georgia land fpeculater, Za o 1
chariah Cox, whose fchswes and procee-, tl
'iings have, for this some time pad, made in
; so much no.ife and bulllc, has lately made tl
1 his eftape from the gairifon at the Natchez c<
s pod, where he has been apprehended and dc
t confined by order of government, as, it is w
' faici, for ftippofed treasonable practices. He w
has been leen sixty miles on his way to he
wards New Orleans, where he is puifued H
. In consequence of this escape, a party o go
, men, his alTociates, are put in confinement be
The people here, in their political feßti fr<
ments, appear to be fad jeering about ; ant th
■ except by few ambitious demagogues &mo an
i popnlaiit y courtiers, the American gore th<
ment is held in esteem, and the Americ: ell
> cockade is all the vogue. The Fresch n- mc
gociationj and the talk cf Dutch refcripv sot
ons, seem to have convinced the people, tht pr<
the zeal, heretofore expr«ffed in favour 06 tin
foreign nationj when well dire&ed to fu- dit
r°rt 8n energetic government at home,s vet
tr\(i patriotism. The Caflle Island refo- int
tiotis »f our good neighbours, the Ke
tuckians, ara here thought to display mc tlei
spunk than wit, haj
Hats Ssf Hoiiety. to
the
WILLIAM M'DOUGALI sol '
AT BIS STOBE,
H No. 134, Market Street, wil
AS JUST OPENED, in .dJition to hi, »r- said
' » V "V "tenfivc affortmcnof tha
Mens Women ~ an<J Children*. Hat., an<all the
kind, ef Stockings—particularly a quantity O |A- hl j
berd ten Vmt Hose, ftutable for the prtfent (i»n ? j
no*. r eo| had
In addition to the above, he has jiift raced a
genera! afTortment of Fleecy f u , M if tl
Uockings, »ight-capj, travelling ditto, brthc. afu
pieces, under waifleoati-, Ihirtg, so f]
~Ephraim Claric. how
CLOCK y WATCH MAKR, fme
Corner ol Front and Market ftrects, 1
HAS JUST RECEIVED, I 1 0."
T) Y the different arrivals, a large fupplr Clock lt ls
XJ and Watch makers and Silver Smith Tools, not
tiles and materials, witl
cmiiriNc or Stat
Rowling Mills, large and ftuall Bench aiHand bv 1
V.ee ? , Turnbenche,, Plyer., Slid.ng Ton. Bra
ces a,-d Bit'., Grooving tool., Saw«,Scrat£rt(h- tha^
P'P es . Sc «w and Draw plates,lre and
.nail Hammeri, Clock dials, cafl brafi 81, for- AIOU
• and pinion.. E uery, Rotten fti, Pu- by f<
mKe (tone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, !el and
Iron wire, fhret Bral,, main springs anglades
Rol l gilt, and flcel chain., foals and keysjc, &c '
CC> Clocks and Watches carefully rdiired , ,
»OV. 21 , Its lUtlc
' y~- " cove
1 ciladi Ipbia and Lancaster TurnpitißoaJ vide
Company. tem f
—~' — tive.
A THE STOCKHOLDERS, hut
KE hereby notified that an Eleflion flFre- ne.f.
fluent, Managers and other officqrstr the •.
eniuing year, will be held at the Companybttc,
on Monday the 14th January next at ten <pck. r efpc
-Wm. COVETT, Secrty. relat
naifw In tl
to I' CNG O RE $
, r ivc j —JJ
s ut, HOUSE 0, representatives
, to —.
n* Debate on Mr.
m °- ( c ONTINU£|),j
a,T J K 1 l " , ! SCAY - Dumber 2? .
wl S£2E3SSS^SS?
.en law was to be of profpedivc
and If the tranfa<W alluded to came
ght this house, he hoped it would be taken up
-ith in a more fenou« point of view 1W
ival when gentlemen come forward, and £
fes, clare that there is no impropriety in an ladi
ng, vidual attempting to influence the conduct of
inal a foreign government with relpett to this
the country, he thought it high time to pass a
the law upon the fubjeft ; for if all the disco.,!
ica, tented people of this country are to be ftiffer.
1 ed to hamper and negociate with foreign pow
ry ers, ,t would lead to the moftferious confe.
tof quences. If, s aid Mr . R . our fnugtkm
VV 'L7 V <r ° ne ' P ntle " ien mi & ht accuse me of
m gloomy mind ; but let us look
my at the present htuation of Eurojy? and profit
hat by what we fee there. They have
leir them fuffered by means which this refolntion
iild propoies to guard against. The patriotic
;ch party in Holland, previous to their revolu
ers turn, .had their agent in France ; and unau
iar- thonzed individuals had every where been
ra- employed in the fubverfioa of old eltablifh
i<x , ments. We know, said he, that United"
at who have deluged their country in
ss'5 s ' had th " r agents in France, who in
m- drafted the 1 rei.ch army wliere to land,
»ep where to find pikes, provilions and other r.e!
TS , cefTanes, for their work of devastation.
™* 1 rofitingfrom the example of Europe,
the Mr. 11. wiftied the legillatuie of this coun
try to guard again ft similar misfortunes
tor, said he, are the people of this countrv
more patriotic, more wife, more enlightened
m. or mpre attached to their government, than
the people in other parts of the world ? He
s£- believed not. There a*, said he, i„ ail
countries, some portion of a.l'contented per
on lons, who.are diiTatiisfied with the adminif
-he t ration of their gavernmet, and will endea.
all vor, by every means in their powet, to alter
m- it Tn every government, confuted like
~ 0il " s ' such a defenption of persons will exist.
he What, said Mr. R. is the fitilation of this
nr. ciuntry . Ihe general government is autho
e" rl F J ed make treaties, to regulate commerce
as aid other national concerns, with which the
ut ftite governments are nqt permitted to
>e- h.veany concern ; and yet, though none of
s; tie sixteen sovereign states are permitted
:r- t« interfere in this refped, it is asserted
:f. tjat an individual may-, with proprie
-1- tj, present himfelf at the bar of the Council
?d c> Five Hundred, or of the Executive Di- '
ig r«£tory, as the reprefentativc of a patriotic
at feiety, of Virginia or any other state, to
re feak on these fubjeas. There may be gen
i ; temen. said Mi*. It* who eonlider rhe admin
ad iiration of the general government as hoflile
an t» the liberties of the country ; and th«ir
LJu. /sal may .carry I hem so far at to belt«ve it
° fce,Kr ' ffut r t0 do all in their, power to
,a /overturn the whole system, to effeft -which
e- ley may think a French army and a French
e mvrfion necessary And if the citizens of
ie this country shall be permitted to have inter
:r course with foreign governments, they may
id do th» greatest ,njury to thi, country under
is what they conceive to be the best intentions,
[e which, though they may not be rewaided
o, here, they reft confident will be rewarded in
d Heaven ! And fluil these persons, said he,
0 go unpunished ? If so, the consequence rauft
t be a aivihon of the people of this country
.1 trom th«ir government—Mr. R. thought
r this a good measure of national defence :
1 and he declared that he had seen nothing in
the address of the President, nor in any thi.g
else which could influence the mind of the
molt fanguinelegiflator to weaken his
lor effeitive measures of defence. If our
profpeas had brightened at all, it was en
tirely owing to the energy and wisdom which
directed the meafurcs would be taken to pre
\enc our citizens from holding any improper
mtercourfe with foreign governments
Mr. Gallatin. •It has been said by gen
tlemen who support this rrfalution'; that ir
has no reference to any thing which has taken
place. It may be so; but although it has
no reference to what has already been done,
those gentlemen will not fay that such a re
solution would have been brought forward,
unless a certain event-had taken place. This
will not be denied. It is therefore proper,
said he, before we enter into this business,
that we lliould have iome information on
the fubjedl; and this information the house
had a right to fmce the President
had promised it at the commencement of the
leflion. He conceived this proper, because
if the house were to legislate upon so novel
a lubjeft, in order to prevent 'futiire injuries
to the United States, they ought firft to know
how the injury which gave rife to the mea
sure, has been committed. But, said Mr.
G. if this proportion is brought before the
house on the ground of general legislation,
it is. extremely improper in itfelf. He would
not deny that there might be an interference
with the executive authority of the United
States, which it wcruld be proper to punish
y law ; flill less was he difpofcd to deny,
t .at men who should embark in foreign ag
grefTions against this country, and men who
should attempt to subvert the constitution,
S n a 'd, ought to be liable to puhifh
men-t ; and such, he was pretty confident,
are already liable to punishment.
But, said-Mr. G. let us examine the refo.
lution. It is not intended in the least to
cover this ground. It propefes only to pro
e punishment for such persons as /hall at
tempt to check the negociations of the Execu
tive. Nothing is here said about aggression ;
» ut only to provide punishment for such
p< nons.as {hall uforp the-Executive autho
rity, by commencing or carrying on anycor
refponder.ee with any foreign government,
rebtive toexifting controveriieS or disputes.
n tne firf 1 place,, he would a(k how gentle*Co-id-fair" ci'm-'tng on any ctrresfrm
dente," an a-Lt-nf ufurpition over thr ,' cecu
t{ve author;tv ? The gentl -man from .South
Carolina had said, that this was ;is much an
ufu" "jStron of Executive authority, as it
viHiJd be ju» ufiirpjtion of the Judicial au
for a set of unauthorized p.-rluns to
■ osqA thernf-lres the power of trying
Mxa G. did not think the two cases
jus : but he would slate a cafe with
relpitt to individual proceedings,in his Opi
nion, perfectly litrjar. Sappofe, i'aid he, I
i- l a.law suit with an individual, and' a third
rerfon, unauthorized by me, should write a
jetter to my adversary, with a view of pro
curing a reconciliation betwixt us; this would
be an exactly finiitar cafe. He could not
conceive how a man who has no power of
attorney, can usurp the Executive authority.
He may be guilty of high crimes and misde
meanors ; he toy do 'very improper aft' ;
but he could not usurp the Executive autho
rity.
Again, the resolution fays, that any per
son who (halt usurp the Executive authority,
by carrying on any correspondence with a fo
reign government. The proposition here
coYersfar too much ground. He would sup
pose a merchant, or owner of a veflel, whole
property had been plundered by the vellels
of u foreign government, were to enter into a
correspondence with that government lor the
reparation of his property. Would gentle
men v/ifh a person of this description to be
punished ? Certainly not; and vet he would
certainly come within the meaning of this
resolution. He would go further, and sup
pose an American citizen, who shall neither
h: a merchant or the owner of a vessel, should
apply to any branch of a reign government,
to desire an embargo might be taken off, or
some old debt paid, and alk whether such a
person ought to be punished ?
If it were intended to cover all cases of
this kind, the resolution does not go far
e;iaugh. It only embraces Ctileiof " contro
versy and dispute." It ought to extend to
aft objefts of negociation with foreign pow
ers, as an interference in any would be e
quallv an ufurpition of executive authority;
■ and a citizen of the United States whe flia.ll
enter into any negociation with the govern
ment of Great Britain on the l'ubjedt of re
newing that part of our treaty with them
which will at a certain period expire, would
furelyb- as guilty, as one who should corrcf
■ pond with the republic of France on the fuh
jfift <>f P- a ee. Both cases, if either, are
equally usurpations of executive authority.
Mr. G. thought, therefore that this reso
lution, in some refpedts, covered too much
ground ; in other?, too little. He beFieved,
however, that the criminality of any ofthefl
adts did not lie in their being usurpations of
the-executive authority, but in the nature of
the crime fcommitted.
There is, said he, another difficulty in 3us
relolution. In the general manner in which
it is brought before the house, it is quite a
novel fubjedt of legillation. All nations pu
nish citizens who carry an correspondences
of a criminal nature with foreign govern
ments. Of this nature would be an invita
tion of ,a foreign power to invade a country.
I luis, to-add one inftmce more to those ad
■lriced- tr)-1' ; :—).'.LutiL-'rtuVi r, ■+". ■ i
he would mention the tfofe of Switzerland,
where the armies of France were called in by.,
eertaiii individuals to ovemiu the country—
The resolution ought, therefore, to be macL
general, and confined to cases of a crimin .1
nature. H? did'not' know that anv nation \
ever passed a law to punish persons for hold
ing a correspondence with foreign Rovern
inents. He believed in certain fituatioys
such a correspondence would be highly im
proper. In our situation, for inftancr, said
bej it would be extremely improper for a
. merr ber of this house into anyco -
:• relpomlenct with the French republic, be
cause this country is at pfefent in a peculiar
situation ; for though we are not at wa>
vith I- ranee, -an offfuce of this k!ind would
not be high treason, yet it woufd be as crj
niinal an aft," as if we were at war ; .but, a> '
he had already dated, the nature of the cor
respondence mult conftltute the crime, and
not tlie aft of correspondence. Thus, om
C'mititution has said, to adhere to the ene
mtes of the United States, and to afford
them atdand comfort, is treason : but as we
are not at war with France, an adt of this
kind gould not be treason. It migtit there
fore; be declared, that though a crime of
thi» kind cannot be considered as treason, it
(ho.ukl ncverdielefs oe considered as a high
crime. Not that he was convinced, it was
Proper to le.;iilate upon the fubjedt at all
ut if at all it ought to be upon the natur
of.the uuriev
Bnt with-refpeft'to the conduft of an in
tJtMi .ual,. he agie«l with the gentleman fron
> .rgm* that if a rnati of his own atco' '
of jnire love tor his countn,*, but of a si -
f-re i! -fire for peace, or out of his hatred so.
wa s> were to ?o over to Fran re to use hi:
t-tueavojts to pnwaif upon the government ,
not to undertake the subjugation of our
country, / id to exert his eiideavors, howe
vtr weak tuey might be, to prevail upor
t"at government to put an end to their d -
preiutioiis upon our commerce, or to prevail
d P nn Ppffons in power there to offer such
• jTiscf accommodation to ourgovernment
fs it persuaded \vould be accepted, he saw
ling either criminal or improper in fuel
4 out the contrary. Whether such
'■••'■ had existed, he could not at prefenf
■!» a., ! tp wanted information upon the sub-
K- , out ii there had, he would fay, he
••nu.#/nt there was nothing in his conduft
y■ _ cr 'nunal or improper.' He was wil
™V f ver, to fufjiend his judgement on
r jl alhided to, until lie had the expedt
»■ t ' on before him. With refpe'dt to
£■'] rt "l"tioii, it was properly modified, he
> n°t know thabhe fhonld have much ob
-'■'i. to it; but he could by no means a
'■ \ tc,t its pr. font form. '
J' ln2 cuu ld not fubferibe to the o
'"iitM l -' ITfntlmian from Pern'fylvatiia,
c 'e relolution before the house is either
(•<• improperly expt*fled. That j
the V- Wrm ,f cem fullv to understand !
P 1 :t-of. the words used. He objedts
to the ■ftr-id usurpation, jjo other
word could hive been use 1 with so much
propriety. It was not intended, by this re
solution, t- provide againit all correspon
dence with foreign governments, but against
such only us ought to be carried on by the
executive ; and when an individual under
takes to correspond in fucli a manner, it is
then, and th -n only, that he ui'urps the ex
ecutive authority. The .vord is, therefore,
a necefhry part of the general definition of
ther efolut'ion. In the detail? of the law, it
might be said more particularly in what this
ufurp,ition should conlift ; and the gentleman
from Penti fylvania himfelf cannot deny, that
all usurpations ot the executive authority
ought to be punished, and this is all that i's
proposed by the relolution. Tlie gentleman
fays, a correspondence ought to be judged
of by its nature, which alone rendered it
criminal, or otherwrfc." This, opinion eve
ry one nnift fubferibe to. And what are
the correspondences mcft likely to be crimi
nal ? 1 he geutleman object to the cafe ivhich
has been alluded to being criminal ; yet he
allows it might be proper, in our present fo
liation to punish perfous who ihould corres
pond with tire French government.
Mr. Gallatin said, he had made use of the
words " afford aid and comfort." »
Mr. D. thought the gentleman had spo
ken As he had Rated. At any rate, said he,
thispofition is true ; and this unauthorised
correspondence must have led to an opinion
in the French government that they had nu
merous friends in this country, and have en
couracked them in their measures aL'3 nil us.
Mr. D. thought the >i fiance which the
gentleman from Pt fylvania had alluded to
of an indvidua 1 writiutj a le ter, was hot in
i point. He would give him one, i hR opin
ion, m.ugh more so. Whtre wo hostile ar
mies are in tl-e Seld, the general officer who
fuffers his troops to neg ciate with the ene
my would not, he believed, beconfidered as
either very careful or fkilful. But the gen
tleman from Pt-n fylvania has fuppofeo that
very worthy individual might carry on a'
correfpondi nee with a foreign government
to as to deserve praise, instead of censure. It
is pofiib'e, indeed, great and eminent cha- :
redtcrs, whose individual opinions might be
known to have great weight in this country
—that of Generai Wafhingtsn, for inftmce
—might be much refpedted in Europe ; but
my great and refpedtable chnradter, who re
garded the honour of his country, \vho filled
a great space in the view of mankind, would
nevei go a road in an obfeurt, mean, and
fly manner, without the knowledge of his
own government, to fettle differences with a
f reign nation. Could' there be found, in
deed, an individual without any public cha- j
redter, or reputation for public services, who
would be willing to go on such an errand,
very man of sense must laugh at the ridicu
lous vanity of such a man. No individual
of America ; no individual, undistinguished
by eminent fervice9, if he had the ordinary
abilities of the American charadter, would
ever undertake such an Embassy ; if he did,
lie would certainly be defpifedfor the weak
ness «f his intellects and his inflated vanity ;
befidcs being considered as having some other
:bj-£Lin vica-and. as, making thic a pat rn..
ver tor'tfrtPr deTTgns. Mr/0. would" not
disgrace the American character by fuppo
iing that fuch a man-could jjp found ;
lull ar. one woiild merit being confined in a
mad house, and be supposed to go .forward
as agent of a Fund) Fa&ion m this country.
( If the gentleman from Pen does
not like this term, he'rmifl give him ano
ther ; it exprtffed his own idea.) And in
every infta ce of thiskird the person thus
employ. d, mull be considered as adting in
direct holVility with the authority of onr go
vernment, ard against ilie general charadt
er of ourcou' try. It is proclaiming to the
enemy, the division of your country. It is
a crime o feri< us magnitude, as the person
thus adting, m id be considered as the agent
of a faction, waiti *g only-for an opportuni
■ jr-of joining the enemies of their . country.
He did not believe luch a fadlion has really
exi.te-icc. He knew thcrehad been reports
to this effedt, which had placed a man high
in rank in this government at its head ; but
he could not believe in his place that men
in so exalted a fitiiation could be guilty of
such conduit ; he was not atithorifed to li
tlen to any such suggestions and therefore
would not. . .
The gentlemen from Penfylvania suppo
sed the house ought not to-legiflate os this
fubjedt, until they receive information from
he President relative to our foreign affairs ;
i-.ut as this was intended as a general pnovi
i ;ipn, unconnedted with any particular cafe,
t was whol y unnecessary, in his opinion, to
wait for t is communication.
Mr. Pirckney said, he should not have
roublcd the house on occasion, had it not
een for the dodtrine which had fallen from
the gerttlem n from Virginia (Mr, Nicho
* as) which he considered as extremely dan
g rous in a republican government, and
which had a tendency to fubveit all order
and good government under wh tever from
they may exist. If he understood the gen
tieman rightly, he said, " he (hould not be
jfhamed ol having been concerned in any
f.cgociation which has la ely taken place
provided he had, by that means, obtained
neace from this couutry; and that he be*
lieved the people of this country would be
jti fnd with such an embassy, provided
peace was the result." He thought this
loCtrine fubverfivc of every principle of re
publican governnreut, the great and leading
doflrine of which is, that the sense of the ma
jority shall govern ; t'*at when this sense is
proclaimed by the proper organs, it shall
be absolute; that no one can pretend to in
terfere so as to counteradt the
of the people of this cou t>y as e>.prcff. d
by its legal organ?. This d dtrine fa d Mr.
P. cannot be controverted. He believed
the gentleman's good intentions for the peace
of the country, had mi/led his better judg
ment. Peace is is m'ft welcome
to every country, and highly tffcntial to its
welfare, This wilh of the gentleman for
j eace may have induced bis better judg
ment to have brought forward a sent intent
more prejudicial than the hittereft war.
Upon what principle it it. laid Mr. P..
that an individual should interfere in -he gen
eral management cf the affair* of this coan
try, even to procure pence to it ? It mud be
upo.. the ground that his private fentimenta
ought io prevail over the legal government
of his country; and it would not be confin
ed to the idea of giving peace trt the coun
try; bec-ufe of the opinion of this individu
al, or of any party, that the country ought
to t i war, the fame reafonirig would hold
good; fioce it willl>e thought we benefi
cial, at some times, to enter into war than
to remain at peace. Tunes may come— —
th:y have come in all couotriei— when it
will be more tffential to engage in a war,
under all its disadvantages that to remain at
peace.
Mr. P. knew of no cafe, no situation, in
which it could be lawful or right for an in
dividual to interfere with a foreign govern
ment at the time when any negociation is
going forward by legal authority. Such ar.
interference can have but a bad effe& ; it
mav have very bad effefts. It (hews at
lea (I, that there is a party in the country
divi ed from the government, who take up
on themfcKes a separate negociation, and
set up a diftindt power, which they wilh to
he paramount to the leijal authority.
He did not think the gentleman from
Virginia had formed a correct idea of the
f ntim nls of he American peoule, when
hefaid, he believed, on his return from an
unanthorifed em'osffy, of the kind alluded
to he should have received their thanks for
havin; given pface to their country. Uider
the present circumfta'icc, he thought the
Utothman calculated illy; as his calculation
was founded on an idea of the pußllanimi
ty of the ! eople; that th;y are afraid of
war, and glad to have peace on any term?,
'or by whatever means. He did r.ot think
that this is the fentimenta of the American
people. They love peace, and would go
as far as any people to preserve it; but he
belitved when they have exhausted every
means of conciliation in vain; when these
conciliatory meafurea have produced noth
ing hut new aggression, and no profpeft of
an honourable adjustment of difference re
mains, in such ..circumftances, he believed
they would chufe war rather than peace, as
more for the interest of the country, and
its future lafling peace.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had
himfelf agreed that it would be wrong for
any party to hold, correspondence with
Trance under our present circumstances; but
that gentleman draws a diftinftion between
a party .and an individual, which he did
not understand,. as he coald not conceive
why an individual was not equally juftified
with a party in holding such a correfpon
dejice.—-..1f it was usurpation, it matters
not whether it be by an individual or a
party—both are alike criminal. A party
might be more dangerous, but au individual
is equally criminal.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania has
made fcveral obje&ions to the motion, on
the ground of its interfering with individ
ccrnt. These had been fully answered by
the gentleman from Connecticut, by faying
that this refutation has no reference to auy
other ucgociations but those of peace or
war between a foreign nation and the United
States. He might that it is merely
an inftru&ion for a cornmjttee to report a
bill ; and if any fear exifled with r.cfpeft to
an interference with private buGnefs, when
the bill came in, this could be easily guar
ded againlt. He hoped, therefore, the
measure would be-agreed to.
(To be continued.) j
NOTICE.
ALL pcrlops indebted to Jam»s Eutm, late
<?f Middle .own, in the county of Delaware,
deccafcd, are rcqut/k'J to make payment to either
of the fubferib'irs, whom they {hah find it mot
convenient to call on,.nd all perfoin J-aviHg Je
mauds, will be pleaTcd in like manner, to fwrni:h
them, that thty may be paid.
All reiits, which fell due on or beforo the fourth
day of the 10th month last are payable to the sub
scribers and those which accrued after that day wil
be payable to the guardians of his children, who
v\ ill duly notify the tennants where to pay the
fame.
MIERS FISHER, of Philadelphia, ) 'Exec-
ABM. PENNELL, of Middietown, 5 uters.
dec x 8 iaw6w
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will be made st the Trea
l'ury of the United States for the renewal
of fke following cerjificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—/landing in the name of Robert
Wilfou of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of ths honorable United Compaav of
merchant* of England trading to the Eaft-lu
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New
York. Bolls. Cts.
No i 0,444* Reg- office I4tl Dec.
1793, one certificate for 1732 33
No 10,478, Reg office 17th Dec.
1793, one certificate for 1959 50
Ellijlen is* John Perot.
nov 13 eodfrw
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fjld for cash by Joseph Salter at At Bon
Richard Wells, Cooper'*Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
less team, breik the ground batter, are kept in
wrder at less expeuce and are fold at a cheaper
—the plan i» much Amplified and cnnfiflsof
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles md
beam ef wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lavs and coulters to b« put on with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent lights tor vending with inflru&inns for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiher "No. au North
Front-llreet.
Who has for Sale;
Or to Lease for a term of Tears,
A number ot valuable tradis of Land, well
situated for Mill.-., Iron A'orksor Farms, mnft
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them u ill to apply to
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Nstyloid.
July 1 r " wtf
\%V tf)ts 21>ay's 40aill
■ CHARLESTON, December 10.
J Ihe weather having bsen very thick and
I hizy tor a nun ber of days pa ft, many yeffels
( which arrived at the bar were prevented
j from coming in. Ihe pilots who come up
| yesterday inform, that they had boarded
the United States (loop of war Herald, and
the armed brig Pickering, lad from Halifax
j which have under convoy a brig, on board
of which are twenty pieces of caunon, (hip- f
j ped at Halifax, intended for the defence j
of our harbour ; they are ft.me of the guns, 1
which were taken when this town surren
dered to the British, in 1781, and former- -
ly were part of the Foudroyant, which king '
GeiTge the second presented to Carolina
when a province. f
Saturday was committed, from Jackson- -
borough, by Doctor Matthew O'Drifcoll,
a man calling himfelf Archibald Stone, for
puffing two Twenty Dollar Bills, suppose.l j
to be forged, of the bank of the. United
States, payable at the office of Discount
and Deposit in Charleston. Two more of
the fame denomination were found on him v
and one of ten dollars, drawn by said bank r
on said office.
As the said notes are in the hands of the .
Prcfidrnt and Directors of the Branch Bank t
they will probably describe the f< atures by <
which they may be discriminated Iron: gen
uine ones. .
NORFOLK, December 18. (
We understand that the house of delegates I
of this Rate have entered into relolutions 1
condemning the Alien and Sedition Rills. i
On Friday last, a negro fellow was execu
ted at Kempfville, Printfefs Ann county, 1
pursuant to his fcntence for committing a ■
rape on a white girl. 1
NEW-YORK, Dec. 29. 1
When the British squadron was (landing 1
into the Bay on the afternoon of the 1 ft, all
the French capt tins were drinking coffee
with their admiral on board the L'Orient,and
they coniidered it as so unlikely that their
fleet should be attacked in its strong pofiti >n, 1
that they did not think of itturning to their ;
refpe&ive ships tilL the English van ship had
got welt- into the bav.
Mont ego Raj, Nov. 11.
The September packet arrived last Monday j
at Port-Royal, from Great-Britain. The j
express came ..here yesterday forenoon with
the letters for thisdiftritt. Our advices are
to the 13th, of which we have given a has- •
ty {'election in the foregoing columns.
Captain Edwards, of the (loop Happy re
turn, Which arrived at Black River on Satur- 1
day last, from Hondura?, with dispatches fcr
Lord Balcarres, came to this town oaThurl
day, and brought with him letters containing
accounts of an unfuccefsful attack made by
the Spaniards on our poffelfions there, which
our readers will find amply detailed below. j
Captain Edwards arrived at Honduras from
tniS 1 liana, vn itiv I«h uH« tww tlnys afici ■
the defeat of the enemy, who were still how- '
ever upon the coast, but upon their perceiving (
an augmentation of the BritiJh force, consist- '
ing of the Happy Return, a (hip, and two 1
other vefiels, together with the ncrth seasons !
having set in, which rendered it less practi
cable for them to gain their own ports, in 1
cttfe of defeat, should they risk another at- c
tack, they made off, and -were dogged by 1
fbme of our craft to their posts on theccaft. c
They afterward'; vifated Ker Chappcl, where '
the Spaniard? had render von fed and found it .
covered with graves, but wliether they con
tained the bodies of thole who fell ifi the at
tack, or of those who had fallen victims to
(vrl>ich, some prisoners that'were
taken said, was raging amongst themj could
not be ascertained. Although fears are ex- 1
prefled by the inhabitants of another attack, '
we are a flu red by Captain Edwards, that at 1
this time of the year nothing is to be 1
feared from them. From the time of collec
ting the Spanifli troftps, and the putting in
execution their intentions, desertions had f
been general, and the people had openly ex- 1
jireffed thsiraveriion to the expulsion of the I
British from Honduras. f
Caprrn Edwards also mentions the gallant
conduct of Capt. Olmar un American, who
had loft his vessel on a reef—When the attack
was threatened, he solicited, and obtained I
the command of a flat, and in a creek he sus
tained at one time an action against five of
tlie Spanish gun-boats, and another ti me a
gainst seven, in both of which he succeeded
in beating them off,
WOODEN WALLS.
There are now in the Weft Irrdlei, three
United States armed vessels, or.e of 22, one
of 18, and one 14 guns. Two others are
ordered there, one from this state, of 21,
and one from Rhode-Island of 32 guns. The "
United States, 44. and the Constitution of
44, are said to be destined on the fame ser
vice. j
The United States have a 22 gun (hip at '
the Havannai Four or five others, of 14 *
guns and upwards, are deflined there to adt
as convoys.
The whole of the navy force of the Uni "
ted States, is ordered for adive service, af
■ter having been completely repaired and
amply stored. The Weft-Indies to be the 1
theatre of operation. /
The Sfcretary of the Navy, will not fuf
fer the bottom* of our navy to rot in Awe- 0
rican parts for want of use ; —he feels the n
importance of the proteSion it is adequate
;o render our commerce ; and he knows
when and where to direst it—Cent'.nel.
SUFFIELD December 25.
Independence.
At an entertainment in Ninety fix Dif- 1
trifts, S. C. at which were present four '
hundred farmers, ahe Sedition and Alien 1
Acts were toasted. These were Americacs j
and friends to their Government.
IHje Csascttc*
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER it.
— <£>•:> a,
PRICES OF STOCKS.
PHILADELPHIA, DICFMrfj.R 11.
Six Per Cent. i fys
Three Per Cent. ic-y
Deferred 6 Per Cent.
B \NK United States, »t percent.
Pennfylvania, ditto
North America, $o ditto
;nfuran«e comp N. A. fliares 55 ditto
■ Pennfylvanra. (hare*, 4r ditto
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
OrAondon, at 30 days 60
at 60 d:tys 57 j
at 90 day« ~
Amllcrdam, 60 dayt, per guilder, 3 cents
Extract of a letter from Baltimore, dated
2&tb December.
The capt. of an armed veffbl belonging to
this place arrivsd this day from Guadaloupe
via Martinico fays, he was exchanged and
relieved from prison by the captain cf a Bri
tish man of war ; thtt the fime privateer
that captured him, also captured the schoo
ner Retaliation belonging to the United
States, and carried her into Guadaloupe.
Another letter to the fame gentleman, da
ted Honduras, Ift Oftooer, mentians ar. at
tack made on that fettlemeut by the Spaniard*
on the fir.ft September, in which th y v/erc
beat off by the inhabitants and flavc-s only,
without the military, vfry fup.-rior
Ln numbers, kc.
The Retaliation, on the ad of this tnohth,
was off the Capes of Virginia, in company
with the Montezuma. It is therefore more
than improbable, (he could have proceeded to
the latitude of the Weft-Indies, and after
being- taken, the Baltimore veflel be also
taken, exchanged and released, proceed to
Martinico, and thence to Baltimore in the
short peribd of 26 days.
The " Germantown Federal ift," " Stei -
ner," " Penrtlylvanienlis," J.N. See. kc.—
are received.
j The Medical Pieces still remaining on
; hand, will be brought forward early ; after
i which the controversy will be excluded from
j triiis paper, unless fucceding pieces are paid
for.
%* The British Packet has arrived at
New-York—brings no accounts later than
the Bth Odtober.
mm "i
dsa3ette Marine fLift.
1 Salem December 21,
Yesterday's Chronicle tells a (lory about
the pusillanimity of the (hip Liberty, of 20
guos, belonging to Salem, commanded by a,
Capt. Freeman, and eruifing off St Jargo de
Cuba, in fllffiering nr. 18 grto JtrUi/ti ft»tp
to pr«rs ftjiuc of her hands ; and even calls
on tbe President of the U. S. to have this
Capt. Freeman ca/hicred. The ohjeft of
this falfhood seems to be, to tell the world
that the armed veffcls of the U. S. are vo
luntarily furnifhed recruits to British (hips,
wh ch would be making some compe fati
on for the lighting our battles. But the
public may reft allured they are imposed up.
on by a mere fabrication, as there is no such
(hip, or captain, belonging to this port.
TO LET,
And may be entered on in about two weeks
TWO Ranges of ftorrj and Comptinj;
Houses Utely ere<£kd by ihe I'ubl'rriber, just
below Market-street wharf ; _The (taiid tor
hufmefs equal to any in the city. For terms
apply to
PAUL BECK, jr.
No. 11 South Water-llreet,
Who has in store several boxes, the: t and
packages merchandize received from New-
York per the schooner Weymouth, Henry Al
len mailer, —the owners are rcq,:c"ed to ears
for thenrr.
dee. 31. tnwfiw
" r-.
—— 'tt..
THOMAS MVRGATROrD,
Has entered intotoarfnerfttp with his two Sons,
I/ndsk r*? T , RM or
Thomas Murgatroyd is* "Sons,
VNO HAVE FOR l.ur
At No. 35, Dock-Street,
Ift and 4th proof Brandy in Pipes and
Butt. ' r
Irifti Market ">
Latour, and £ WlN£S > in Caf «-
Lunelle J
Two Trunks Umbrellas.
- J,c 3' drw
NOTICE.
ALL Pcifont indchti*il to th-eftate of Jane
Davidson, widow, d*ccafed, are requested
to make payment-; and thofewho have any demand*
against thefaid eftatj to rem>r their ar-eounts dnlv
attclled,to Wn DAVIDSON, or")
JAMES DAVIDSON, f Ex «utor»
dcc 3' jaw w
N O T I C E.
Joseph Thomas's Creditors
ar« hereby earnestly requested to furnilh their
Accounts duly attelled, as f>«n as convenient :
thereby to enable the. Afligncea to form an idea
of the flateofl.isaflUirs and aU those inriebt
edtofaid Thomas, are required to make im
mediate payment to either of the Subfcribo s.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, ~) AfTienrcs
william Buckley,-v of
JOHN HALL. 3j.Th.-m!,.
dec. it. dtf
WANTED.
IN a small family, in elderly Wotnan, whrfc
principal occupation wjjl be the care of chil
dren—apply at no. 113, Spruce flreet.
N. B,—Good recocimcnr'a mn« will be an i-.
difpenfible requifiu.
de«- »9 cod;t... - —, *•* —■ 0 1; ■ *m m n
Imp o:',tk!)
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fins and common cloths
iSv.andown* 1
Baiz •>
Vclvfttt
Vclv.rctts
jfrintc4 calicoes
Furniture fc lancy dimities
Hair
Sr.\A^ lii<; fill*
brui'cU hoi.l Prrfia Cii jk tfs
bu! f "i-s
For sale, fit cajh or credit, by
.s.\,\;nKL Mjiußicrv.
Ik». 24; Artfi llrcet.
r»"v, • 6 £cj;tni
FOR SALE, ~
AT Nv- ' UUI II WaTEH-S'l RE FT.
I/ifii Linens, 7-8 and well
ailorco', 11 *ii«le aud half boxes
Check* in ti.tfo r
Drf!j«Kfca\ a * «! Brown 7-8 beetled Linens
Irish Hacicle.l Flax '
'i'hfvati
Men and Womens Ccmbs
KuHja Duck, ol an excellent quility, and
100 hhds. Aux Caves Molasses.
By ISAAC H.IRVET, junr.
lit 1 -, mo 17 d^w
liank of North Ameriea.
THE StocMiol'Jers are htreby notified, that an
for, twelve Director*, for ihe ensuing j <
yi*»r, tviH !>v 1 cKI at the.Bauk on Monday, the
14th of January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WKLJLS, Cafh'r.
Dec. S, 1798. dtEl
NOTICE.'
ALL Perfont indebted to the Eflate of WH
lurii Heaiichainp, lately dei eased, are de
sired to make imißedij' e pjyment and those who
have any ci.iirrs againit said to produce
thoir accounts properfy aitelted to
Sum/. Price, executor.
nov »o dtm
FOA ZALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, to 7,
On moderate terms for Calh or a short credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jlrett, near Che/nut.
nov if, 5
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
miles of tire city, or to let on grouud-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. 147, Ohefnut
ftreet.
Nov. it §
FOR SALE,
By the Subscribers
100 Bolts Ruflia Duck,
;o pipes London pai titular bill Madeira Wine
r pait nine pound Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4000 bs Fine Fleta Indigo
7,1 Barrels Beef. "I
Witlings £s* Francis: '
Peim-flreet, )
Nowmbtr 2% j Q
A Li- PERSONS havitf|> any legal demands a
galnft th* eftace of WVlhm Aiiw,deep-fed, '
lat: of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern kee] or, are j
r-i;ii.. lied to furnilh their accotihts properly au- 1
thenticaCeii, and all perfbAs indebted to laid eft ate I
are r.'d a-«Sniakc paymJiic the fuSlcrib w~hr 1 .
-Philaatlpi'ia. '
LJiVI HOLMNGSWORTH Adminr. '
OSobcr 3tit, sygS. |
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk /
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
Dec. 10.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Lufer, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain blue jacket and
veft,light blueoveralls, around hat,which had been
bound with yellow, and .vhich he had ripped off
in his fitft deftrtion, and a pair of new flioes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
fallow, complexion and a 11 itch in his upper lip
Kis back is it lit fore from a flogging he got a few |
days ago He may bo discovered by his fifeing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the'
OAober 17. Marine Corps.
tOR] SALE, r_
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lying in Gloucester County,
State of hew.ferfey,
'"■p WENTY-FOUR acres ot which aie
J. Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This
land lies about half a mile from Timber-Creek, T
ami two miles from the river Delaware, the
county road palling through itj and the great
road only two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, PATKICK DOGHERTY,
Sign nf the Raixbo<w, in Shippen,
between Second and Th'ird-Jlrcets.
dec 4 u
ALL PERSONS ]
Indebted to the Eft ate of Mr. John FtNNO.late
of Philadelphia, deceafed,arc d6lired to make pay- -
mcnt, and those having any dehiairds, to present '
them for fettlereent, to i
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r. J
or p
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent f<
to the adminiftntion. 1
nov. 3o 63m d
NOTICE. «
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sam
uel Wallis, esq. vf Sl'ircey township,
in the county of Lycoming*, lately deceifed, are
hereby required to come forward immediately
and pay their refpeflive debts.—And all persons
having legal demands against the Eflate, are
requested to produce their accounts, properly
authenticated, for settlement.
JOHN WALI.IS, ")
WILLIAM ELLIS, (Adminiftra- ,
DANIEL SMITH, f tors.
JOHN ADLUM, J ' *
deremher 13 3taw4w *
Dancing School. £
F<
W.LLIAM. M'OOUO%VLL presents his res- °'
compliioents to the public ; takes
the liberty of informing ihtm, that at the requell
of many of his former employer.', he will open
hi«ScHoot, at his Hail Room, in Fourth, bet- In
w.-en CHefnutandWalnut streets, on the firll Mon- ar
day of December—For Young Ladies at ten an
o'clock, in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at du
lix in tke evenings of Moudays, Wednesdays and
Fi idays.
•Nov. 18 ' coim
/ ' '
, THE CARGO,
OK THK Siiih INDIA,
CVptain Asliuead, from BaI'AVIA,
Consisting r.f
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the I'll Qualit y—to be Sold, by
MORDECrtI LEWIS,
dec ii ('iw
FOir.SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRII'iaS.
14 four pound Cannon, tifferenl lengths,
5 Cairo..ades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December I. §
Lancaiter County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR S 11.8,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
dec I ___ $ .
LA RE IMC t SyCKKLy
No. 155, Marl rt Street.
First quality London Particular / VV4NB6.
Madeira, Peit, Shtriy arid Lifbnn $
Cogniac Brandy, lit to 4th proof.
Sprits.
By the Pipe, Hiid, Quarttr-calk or Gallo».
<] ec mw&fiw
Now Landing,
From on board the (hip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the llores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain,
! 350,0 c o w«ight of Java Coffee,
of the firft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannißera.
Nov. 11 , dtf
BALLAS'I.
A QUANTITY to be disposed of, if applied f<Jr
immediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard.
novemb-r 10. S
Imported,
In the Ships Afiive and Liberty,
from HJMBORGH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &V.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCK
no. XO3 Market-street.
nov 20 f
SHutMAKEk £9- BER RETT,
HAVF. R£MOV (■ D THMR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, 'south From street.
Their room at the Coffee.-houfe wiU.c<«tJJme to
"be attended from jatilla o'clock in the day, and,
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evenih'g.
JACOB SHOEMATvEIi,
Has also removed his Counting koufe to t-he
fame place, where he has for sale a few pipes choice
London Paaticular Madeira Wine ; French and
Spamih Btandy ; Claret in calks and cafes,'of su
perior quality, and a few Packages vjlais and
f —■ lf«», n—' ** J* Awul -
lenrber, which will be fold very low to close the'
sales.
Philadelphia, 11 mo. i», 1798. §
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Alexr. J. Miller, Ss'Co.
BEING diflblved on the firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, allpcrfons indebted
to the fame art requested to fettle with tfce sub
scriber, and thofeto whom tn-y are indebted are
rcqueft«d to call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Print Jlrcct.
Who has on hand,
TO BE DISPOSFD OF ON LOW TERMS,
By the Package or Pieoe.
Fine, plain and tamboured Muslin«
Guzzennas
Battas
Coflaes
Rabobgungies
India Callicoes
Book Muslins
Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras & putficat hkf».
Brown Silefias
Tickings, tS?c._ £SV.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
Irish Linens £s° Ruflia Sheetings.
nov it (,
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, undcflands
accounts and can be well recommended, 1
wants a Situation a 6 Clerk or Afiiftant in a i
Wholesale Store, or Conutinp-bcafe. Appli- 1
cation to be made at this Office. ;
__ nov 14 $
To the Creditors of the Subscribers. j
PLEASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we haveap- ]
plied to the judges of the Court of Common
Pleas, for the benefit ot an aft of alterably, palLd the 1
fourth day of April last; and they have appointed
THURSDAY the 87th inft. to hear us and our Cre
ditors, in the city of Philadelphia, at fach place '
where the Court may be held, and wnere you may
attend if you plcafe. ;
PATRICK CAVANAUGH, 1
JAMES DOUGHERTY, 1
PETER G. ROSE, r
JOHN GREENE, t
LEWIS D GRAFF,
JAMES M'CALLEY.
RICHARD STOKES 1
dec» 8. sraw ow J
LOST, " j
IN one of the ftreeta between Union and Saf
fafras, on the sth instant, the outside Casi *
•f an English Gold Watch, chafed on the back 3
with a lhield. Any person who may find the
fame, and will bring to this office, wtll receive
Four Dollars reward, and the thanks of the -
owner.
dec. 7.
All Persons
Indebted to the Estate ofHENRY Hit.l,, deccafed
are requested to make payment to the f*bfcriber ;
and those having any demands on the fame to pro.
ducc their accounts for fcttlenvnt.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no. 139, Market street
dec. 4, 1798 eetf
r
George Davis's
LAW-BOOK STORE,
No. 319 High Sireet.
Latest Londvn Irish Editions.
GIOItGE DAVIS's l-'all iuipor'Atiun is now
arranged of w hkll a more capital collec
_ cion lie Relieves was never offered for laic cither
:n this City, London or Dublin It com-bines
llniolt every book in,with several valuable books
out of print. Davis's confining himfclf to the
I'ale Cf Law-Bo«>k» only, it will appear obvimi"
to profeffianal Gentlemen, the advantages they
have both ill feleiftion and price by purchasing
from him.
Ilis Catalogues be'hig ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling for them
and to th»fe reflding at a diltance, Ky fovoring
» him wish their address (poft-pai4J they (hall be
Cent.
nova 6 m&th»m
Just Publifl)ed
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone-house, no. 4i,fouth Second-ftrcet,
'• Fijiladelphia.
ENCTCLOPjEDIA :
ORJ A
DICTIONARY
OF
A R T S AND SCIENCES,
AND
1 MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
' On a plan entirely NEtr.
II WHICH
THE DIFFERENT SCIENCES AND ARTS
Are digeftedinto the Form of Diilinft
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS
COMPREHENDING
THE History, Theory, and Pra&ice, of each,
. I aacording to the latest difcoverits and i nprove
ments: and full explanatii ni given ef the Various
r Detached Parts tf Knowledge, whether relating to
j natural and artificial objefls, or to matters ecclesi
astical, civil, military, commercial, &c. Inc'.sd
- injf elscidation of the most important topics rela
tive ta religion, morals, manfiers, and the osceno
my of lite:' together with a description of all the
countries, cities, principal mountains,leas, rivers
&c. throughout the world ; a general hiltory, an- ,
cient and modern, of the different empires, king
doms and states j and an account of ths lives of
the molt eminent persons in cv.ry nation, from
the ear ieft ages down to the pcefent times. Com
piled the writings of the best authors, in fc
veral laeguages ; the inqfl approved dictionaries,
as well of general as ot particular branch
es ; the tranfaitions, journals, and memoirs, of
learned focietiss; the MS. lectures of eminent pro
fcSbrs on different ciences ; and a variety of ori
ginal materials, furni&ed by an extensive corre
spondence. L
The work is now completed in eighteen large
quarto volumes, illullrated with five hundred and
forty-two copperplates.
The few copies which remain on hand aa-e of
fered for sale at
135 dollars for the 18 volumes in hoards
162 dollars nedtly bound in fileep leather
ißa dollarshandfomdy boundin Calf
••SO7 dollars in Rvlfia or Morocco.
r. £ oil's ON,
H A lufJJ ST OPENED A
,1 SUBSCRIPTION,
1 ForPublilhincf a Supplefii'-tit to the Work
I The ohjciS of %Vhith is to correil such mif-ftate
i ments as have been found in the Work, and to give
an account, of the mod important dilcoveries and
in.proveraciits which have been made for the last
: ten years.
It is expeded this fupplemsnt will consist of
1 three volumes, on fqch paper and type as the En
cyclopedia, at Six Doliars per volume, in boards.
I Si 1 Dollarsai be paid on fnhfcribiuir _
•■ ' "tree ir ;„ - _ iaw6w
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING f*OM NO. 8, CHESNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Third-Jlreet.
Where he has for Sale
. 250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING Of
C#flae»
Baf'tas
Mamoodies
Humhums
Caliroes
Handkerchiefs. &c. &c.
The remains of a Stock of !
DR7 GOODS,
Consisting of Woolens only, 1
AMONGST THEM Akfc,
Cloths 1
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, Sic. 1
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Ru>m,
Of a fine flavor, 3d y proof.
nov io ]
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detashment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVeft SthuyHtill, viz.
Oflober 19.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, $ g
■feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and 0
complexion, born io Holland, no Trade, speaks !•
broken Er.glifh and very takkative, has a dimple b
in his chin. 0
N'vemier 6. John Murphy, 47 years of c
a S e > 5 feet 7 \ inches in height, grey eyes, dark t'
hair and complexion, bom in Ireland, city of h
Dublin, by trade a Hozier. n
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches r
'"g h > grey eyes, fandyhair, frefh eomplexion, b
born in New-Englartd, state of Conne<flicut, a w
repeatad deserter, by trade a Blackfmt'.li.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
a ge,_ J feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of J'
V\ extord, by trade a Gardner, has worked for .
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to heir himfelf Sing. •
AH the above delerters are very much addiA
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro- j;
perty if in their po #er, are artificially marked h
on th»ir backs, had on, when they went away, c i
lhe«ir regimental clothing. Whosoever F
hends said deserters, shall receive forty dollars 01
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason
able expences, by applying to me ai above,
EDWARD' MILLER, captain
id regiment *f Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
IRISH L INENS, »
4-4 and 7-& th White Linens well-. «
air ° 1 Haritied n
3-4 Brown riitte ditto to the
3-4 Irilh Chocques suitable for the \ Drawback.
Weft-India Market.
FOR SALE,
On reasonable term—by the Box or Bale,
By Gamble & Hel mvth,
No. 148, South Sccoud-ftreet.
dec »9 3 tawtf
John J. Parry,
CLOCK fe* WATCHMAKER,
H. ..V again opened at his nfual Stand, No. 38,
sok/Z) Second jlreet —where h.- has for Sate,
A VARIETY OF
! Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,
r AND A FEW
s Eight Day Clocks, j
s Which will be warranted to give fatisfaHion. g
e An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys. a
All kinds of Clock and Watch work done with j
particular attention as heretofore.
n gr An Appren ice wanted.
novemhrr 13 m.w^f.^w,.
g btiimVT OF TENS SYLVANIA, 10 IVIT:
e
BE IT REMEMBERED,
% THAT on thfc tenth day ,
S.w of December, in the twenty third
-M-jg y e '* r Independence of the U
■ nited States «t America, JOHN
LAMBERT of the said Diftri&,h*th depolited in
this office the title of a book, the right whereof he
claims as author in the words following, to wit: •
" A fcort and practical Essay on Farming j be
" the experience of a firmer ef about futy "
«' years of age, near forty y«ars of which wete
" (pent in England, F.ffex eounty, on land where t % v
" farming is done in the greatest perfection,
" and near Ccvcu years on three bundled and w
" twenty acres of worn-out land in Pcttl'grove and
" Alloway creek, in Sa'em, county, Wefl-JV."fey— _
u Shewing the means whereby these worn-out
" Jands may be ir>prov«d, and thatth» means are
" in the power i.l aiinotl every- farmer."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of S
the United States, intituled " An a& for
the enconragementof learning, by securing 01
the copies of maps, charts and book? to the
rJ authors and proprietors of furh copies du«
8 ring the terms therein mentioned."
D. CALDWELL. 1
Clerk of the DiJlriS of Peanfylvania.
dec. 13 iaw4w ri
A SHORT AND PRACTICAL
ESSA Y,
. ( ON
FARMING:
BEING the experience of a farmer of about sixty \
1 years of a<*e ; ntar forty years o! wh ch were spent
in England, Elfcx county, on land where farming V
is done in the grtatefl perfe&ion : and nearfeven f
' years on three hundred and twenty acres of worn-
' out land in Pottfgreve and AUoway creek, ill
Salem county, Wieft-Jerfey :
Shewing the means whereby tbefe worn-out ''
lands may be improved j and that tfie means are
in the power ,ot almost every farmer: w
c Printed for the Authur, „
3 . AND SOLD «
BY ZACHARIAH POULSON,
Chefnut-flreet, Philadelphia.
N. B.—Some ot the large fort of Clover feed "
may he had at Mr. John Cooper's, baiter «o. IV2 t "
Racc-fWcet.
deeember IJ, iawj|.'.» "
" A CAUTION VrO THE PlfBL IQ. '
u
JOHN A. SHA'EFPER, ofFhiladelphrn, who has re
f«Jr a few yj-air* p jft heen in the fouihei n St-vtes, cl
has had the tffroiiter ji to feveral Bills of Ex- ol
change on Tir.iothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of'
State, and myrelf,artd by that means hr.s defrauded
5 atfumher of persons of their money, deceiving j -
j them by an exhibition oflctters and papers with the
t nanies affixed of divers public charaiteis and'repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of laid
p Shaeffer; to one of these papers I find my name
. fubferibsd, but Ido not know the man ; these arc N
villainous forgeries! To prsvent further imposition, al
1. L have to rroueft the printers of Nnvipnncn in .In-
United orates to puDinn tms ler the benefit of their
feßow-cfcizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treafvrer of it: United States,
Trenton jNety- Jersey, 7
Oftobcr 14, 1798, J
NE Wl\o VE LS, P LA T'S,
MAGAZINES, Vc.
Chalk's Circulating Library.
No. 75, North Thirdflreet.
THE Prpprietor, in compliance with his pro- C
mifes to render thi* Inflitution a complete
source of rational amusement and inftruftion, by C
repeated acquifitior.s of eutertaijiing ind interest- R
ing publications, has now added to Ms former P
cofleiJlion Four Hundred Volumes of mifctlla
neous works, comprising nearly all the late/1
publ'tfl.ed Novels and Dramatic produtliovs
catalouges of which are ready tor delivery,to c '
fubferibers.
N. B. 3'Jbfcribers, and others, who still re- S'
nin Hooks taken frem the Library previous to ®!
the ficknei's, are requested to return them imme- I
diately : the fme« will be charged from the 14th ~
of November.
For sale,
Fine flavored Imperial, Young Hyson, Htfon,
Hvfon Skin, and Souchpng TEAS.
ec ' -'3« -- t/jingw
Valuable Property for Salei j.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called
FARM, formerly the xefidence 3l r
ol Gencial John Cadwaladar, fituit« on Saffafras
River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a- on
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards ofjco CO
of which are in woo ls. The Buildings are all ex- t ; s
celltnt, audcor.fift cf a handsome Dwelliilg-Houfe, |
two la ge Barns »i;h Cowhouses, Stables"for fifty ,n J
horses.a fpe<(ious treading floor under cover, a gra- 1
nary, two Jverfeer's houles, two ranges of twe ft a.
ry buildings for Negroes (one of them new and of
brick), Corn honfes a Sny>ak house, &c. &c —The J
whole Ellate boing nearly surrounded by water,it
requires but 'ittle fencing, and has a good Shad and
Herring filhery. It is conveniently Ctuated for
both the Philadelphia and Baltimore markets, with Of
two landings on a navigable river but a slum foil ' s w
lrom Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two tar !
large Apple Orthards on the premises; also, a varie- f er
ty oi excellent fruits of different kinds. The foil is 1
mcftly a rich looir.—The whole wtll be fold toge- ~
theror divided mtofmaller farms(lorwhich the buil
dings are conveniently fituattd) as may fuittbepur
hafer. The Stock on said Farm, coßfiflisg cf Hor
cfes, Cattle, Sheep &c. will also be disposed of.—
For further partitularsapply to GxorceHastings
on the premifes,or tothe fubferiber, iopbiladelpliia
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, Jus.
December 11. m. tf.
Notice. -
ALE persons indebted to the F.f
tale of Isa AC Tr Lr At a, Lfq decealed, are request- M
ed to make immediate pigment, and thole haVipg a
nv demands against (aid Ellaie will please to furriifh
their accounts duly attested for fcttlement to T,
GEORGE DAVIS, V
Atioroey in fatl to eil;
JOHN M'KIM, jr. Ad'm'ir. Ist
Ccc.tg, aw6w fur
MAYOR'S OTEICE Co
REMOVtD to 157 South Sccond-fljw
i V 2W
1
"THIS DAY PUBLTSHKn,
Br WILLIAM TO U NG,
Corner of Chefntjt t,nd Seconti-ftreots
JOAN of ARC,
An Epic Poem,
By Robert Soutbey ; wilb notr,.
" u' E d ° BOt , hcfitate ,0 deca " o'ir opinion
that the poetical powers displayed in it are of a
very luperior kind—Conception more lofty and
daring;, sentiments more commanding, and lan
• guage more energetic, will not easily be found
nor does scarcely »Ry part of it fink into languor,
at rh«. glow of feelings and genius animates the
whoU. The language is, for the mod part, mo
dellcd o.uhat of Milton ; and not unfrequently.it
has a ftronjr rcljfli of Shakefpearc."
Monthly Rtvirw, vol 19, f, 361.
A HISTORY,
OR ANECDOTES OF THE
RE VOLUTION in RUSSIA,
IN THE YEAR T762.
Translated front the French of M. de Rulhiarc;
With an elegant Head of the late Emprel*.
[Thefecond edition, price 75 cents,]
w she grounds of M. dc Rulhiere's in'orraarfon
seem indisputable, and his readers appear to have
every rcafon to be fatisfied with his difcemment*
in unfolding the motives and circumstances that
concurred in bringing about this flriking event.
c< We {hall only add, that we have seldom met
with more interesting eriginal anecdotes, thaa
those that are contained ki the little work which
we have now reviewed."
Appendix to Monthly Review, W. 21;
ec T 9 wf&mim
An excellent Horse Chair,
"T O be fold on rua! miiblc terms at the Livery
Stable, No. 28 North Third-Mreet,
N. B. The Horse belonged to a gentlemen in
one of the Troops in this City.
17 .fawitr
ALL PERSONS,
HAVJNC claim* apiinft the F stats of
SUS ANfr/siH I.OCKTI R, deceased, are
r«queHed 1> prefrnt their rcfpt*<9ive accounts to
Nathan a. smith,-) , .
0R / Aa.ng
JOHN DORSEr, J
nov 9 3»w6w
district of Pennsylvania, to wir-
BE, IT REMEMBERED,
r / L IHAT on the twe-lfth day
of August, in tha twenty-third year of
fc- * aha IndeMiidtiire of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton,of the laid dif
tri<3, hath deposited tn this office the title of a
book the right whereat be claims as aathor in the
words following to wit ;
"New Viewscfthe Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By Vsnjamia Smith Bar
" ton", M. bjCorrefponder.t Member of the Socic
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Vhilnfophical Sotie'y, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
; " Boflnn, C<uref|)(iiiduig Mr Hiker of the Mafla
" ohufetts Hlflorical SocU'ty, and Profeffur of
" Materia Mtdica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univeriity of Pennsylvania."
In conformity to the afl of the Congress of the
United State*, imitled " An ait for the encourage
ment of learning by fcctiring the copies of maps,
charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timesth'er.in mentioned.'*
SAMUEL CAI.DWF.LL, Clerk, Did. of Peun'
November 1, 1798.
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
Now landing from 011 board the ship INI)IA,
at Mr. Thos. Penrofr's Wharf, and for file by
jfeirtt Aih :■ cad,
No. 265, South Front-Street.
WHO MAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reasonable terms,
CoiTaei
Baft 43
Black Taffatie*,
. 10 todtf
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, si and cj
pounders.
Carronadcs, Woolwich proof, with carriages, &c,
complete— 12, 18 aud 24pounders.
Caiinoß powder in Itegs of a?lbs each
Round, double headed, and c'annifler (hot
Patent sheathing copper, bright, alforted tS, 20,
2Z, 44, 16 and 28 or per square foot, fceets 48
by 14 inches, fuitaLlc for vaflcls from xoo to
1000 tons
Copper nails, bctfts and spikes
Boar-ding Plies,
Common cutialTcs
Gunners floras of all kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 <»rofs boxes
Patent fljot in calks of scwt. each
London porter and *>rowa ft®'jt, ia calkj »f J iot,
bottted.
Earthen ware ia c. ares, afiorted
■For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near jth street.
Odlober 29. ea.tf.
Infitrance Company of North America.
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a stated meeting
of the Company will be Jieitl at their Office
on the Bth of January n.xt, (being the {*•
cond Tuesday in the Month) fur the elec
tion of twenty-five Directors for the ensu
ing year,
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. i2ih.
An Apprentice Wanted.
A YOUTH,
Of Reputable Conne&ions, & fuffioient quj!ificaiion.',
is wanted as an Apprentice to the Bufir.cls at a No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—Euqiuie o! (he Prin
fer.
Dec. f, na.sw:
FOR SALE,
No. 7, SoGth Fourth-Strie *x
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A isox of Silks
20 Boxes powdered Sugrar Candy of I3iwt.
A parcel vefy fiue Cassia.
C HAICHT.
dtrc 5
1 For Sale,
A well improved Plantation,
Of one hundred and twenty acres,
VERY beautifully fitulted in the county 'f
Monteomery, about twenty miles from tAe
city.—The buildings are all new and finifheJ
is to accommodate a genteel family only.
further information, enquire at the Pennf*iv»
Coat-of-A rni-,, nineteen nuUj from tovn, and
three above !VJortu-lown.
deeeajber *5 fa.&w- ! '