#a?ette oftjK llllittflS t)aily Advertiser i
By John Ward Fenno, N°- i i 9 Cbefnut Street.
I" hotmi t»57.] ~ PHILADELPHIA:WEDNESDAY iiVENING. D£CEMBKJt »«, '{Kut/JW XIV.
■——' lll '■ l 1 n 1 I I ■ 1 II
$y The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per an rum. to Subscri
bers refidirtg in the city of Philadel
phia. -4ft others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclojtng and direftin%;
and unless [ome-perfon in this city will £
become answerable for the fubjcrip
hon, it mutt be paid Six Months in
advance.
——p* —■ -
For Sale,
the SHI?
packet, *
HuUNCIS CoWPIHTBWAIT, MiHe*,
about ijoo barrels, * go#dftrorg
Slip— has acoomraodationsfor psffcngers,
hi»r i'« fen: t0 fei w " l> fmi " ct P eoce - SSc '* U*"
ing at Miffliu't wharf. For further particular eu
-juireof
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgtvay. i
■ovefnbcr 16
Said ftiip »r not fold on, or More thy Jth
of D'fmber.iuli. will on that day, in the evening,
kt offered for sale by public at the Mer
chants'. coffee h»ufe. r
Smith Iff Ridgway,
Isaac Jiarmy, jm. 41
dec. x. f
Jamaica Rum. p
THE CARGO, h;
Of the Ihip eHARLEs, Captain Salter,
Frrni the North fiHe ot Jamaica, fc
Near 200 hhiis. of fine high proof ~
JAMAICA RUM, £
NowLar,4ing a: South ftre«t W hart.
PETER BLIGHT. L '
C H TRL E S,
Captain Salts*,
Coppered, mount twelv- 6 pounders and thirty
five men—returns imn.«ilately to Jamaica, for 1
PalTage apply a above.
dec 17 dim j|
Far FREIGHT or CHARTER, b(
to any part of EUROPE, an
The Swedish Snow p[
MARIA, v^ c
Hans Olof Kock, c.mmander. W
A rumrn.i' ly good vefTel, about 120 ton* bur
then. A freight to Cadia, or a«y part 0/ the _
Mediterranean would be preferred. Ei quire of the
Captain on heard at Vi le Street Wharf
dec 17 §
-
1 For Sale. j
' | 'HE SoßseMalß. iiwmUng—declineLjlie-
X DKUO BUSINESS, offers For bale, the be]
whole Bt°tk of hu
Dfwgs and Meiftcines, Instruments, all
The shop is elegant, commodious, and fuflici- t0
«iftly known for the extensiVe business 1 one in the
whol-fale and retail line ; the lituation equal to
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Seeond streets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bed suit the purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, JUK.
Wlo has For Sale,
Wetl calculated tor the
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging ii. !
food order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails ;
well, and in complete order forthc lumber buCncfs
gf All persons indebted to the lace firm cri
GaUth-wuit & Baldwin, IV. B GMtlwait, GUa
tlnnait is" >Aarc, or the fubfrri >er, are earnestly
to make Ipeedy payment to 3
JAMES ivIOORE, jon. ffl
august 3 5 '5
BOSTON BEEF,
Bineli in iih<pping Order.
tor sale by
app
JOHN Slf TRIM',
No 96, Aortb Fromjlreet. •
- Who wants to Charter,
"SfcTfe' '•%:* A good sraur fessel, i
aboot 300 Tons burcben.
HAS ALSO foX SALE, °
40 PI pen of iVUoura W iue, 3 years old. C
m 4t T
FOR WILMINGTON, i Q
N'!o K T H.Ca » 01 I N A) El
THk SHI> V
StJSivt COMMERCE, lu
: 1 Captain Woon, jj
w lLLtakeinfreight on very mo
- J K Hfr4tetrrm '. and fail about the
tt ..hinßa-,t Apply to the Capuui on board V
Latimei s wharf, or I 4
Willings Iff Francis, J
Pcnn Street.
novemher t6 f ,
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer
No. 7, fr)uth ThirdJlrret,
. HA s RECEIVED,
fer the last arrival f rom Europe, a lar K e aflort- D
wot of the fafbionable Onnds in hi 4 line, I
And ha, constantly Jor a gcrtral cfort.
F ' r (L r tL rCLOndon P Crfine BroaCl flftft
Cdffinieres th« f(
Vest Patterns of all kind» aS *' n
H^le^l/a^^ 1 ' iB ,ht «"«*•»'» line MAR
•deccmber 10 . . J°H!
dtf sol
is For New York & Boflon.
r i- .fcJL The new and fad failing Sloop
<1 RESIDKN T-P A C K E T,
d- Jam as BtACtsrr, metjer.
fy WlL'l fa 1 with oil convenient speed—For freight
til °r pa»Tage apply to f,t C mailer on board, lying at
Clie(Wut-l>rcet h: rt
!/>" WHO HAS FOR SALE,
i" On board said Sloop,
30 Mils, of cod-oil fineft quality
ao do of herring ar.d Ciad
Few half do. mackrael
A fniall quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pears
T i^ ca hanchei of onions
' 4000 11m. of .xcelknt cheese,
i'r, Philadelphia, dc. ii.
Ship Broker's Office,
, tf And Commiffton Store,
bj;, No. 119, South host St&fft,
er " Next dour to the CufloHt Houf*.
r T I HE Stibfcriber, encouraged By tbe advice of
X his friends, off-rs his fsrviee to the public
as a Ship and lnfurance Broker.——He propof- 1
ea to buy and fell veflel6 and tverv relat
— ing thereto—alfift matters of vrflela and o'hert
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and shipping freight, fettling livt'ur
ance ar.d all c ther mercantile account, and
have on hand the Deceflary Blan k> and Stamps.
Papers in foreign language* trinflated, and iu
formation given in general mercanti'ei' atter*.
of —Prom a knowledge gained by long experieote
of every branch of buGneft he hopes to be ui'e
ful to tho r e who pleafc to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERr.
November 10 5
For sale by tbe fubferiber,
At Portsmouth (n.h.)
y . Jr Jr*' THE HULL
NEW SHIP,.
83 feet keel, i-ibcam, la feet hold, 5., to
between decks ; about 3 jo tons ; with maltt., spars
an all the carpenter's and fmi'h's work com
pli ted ; built of go»d found fjafined timSer and
plank ; launched in November, J756, and has been
well taken cure of since that time.— Further p ir
iculars may bt known hy applying to Mtffrs*
. Wharton & Lewis, Phi ladelphia, or to
r . THOMAS THOMPSON,
M tlecemher m 3aw.tf
u FOR BREMEN, ~
THK BRIQ
~ SPECULATION,
Me A»IS» WIETIKO, MaSTI*,
a- --MIIW laving at Henry f[ r
ie be.ow R.JCeTTrea—(he is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundren and twenty tons burthen ; will fail with
poffiblc dispatch— l or- freight or passage apply
te PRATT fc? KINTZING,
° no-95. "oni IVater-Jlrcct.
Who have for sale, 3 variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ
Ticklenburghs Patierbcrnes J
Oznabrgs Checks
Heffians Stripes
Brown rolI» Blipptrs
k a g» Camtricks
Plitil.as Twine
1 Britunia» Glaf. mniblers
tftopailleap potr t w j ne
1. Creas ala Morlaix Window gli/s
Bielctield linen BnmJtoae,& .
Doroiat
december 13 th.fa.m9.3w
A ——
;■ FOR Liverpool,
the armed ship MOLLY, '
Burthen 34crTons; f
W'Jl found velTel, She-is now c
- r 'C-ive her Cargo, and will
aßtßiiSiit"" 0,1 th<- firft opening of the river. e
1 hree-fourrhs ot f. lr Loading being already pro
vi ed—for Freight for the remainder, or PaflW 0
apply to 6 '
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
H ' c -'3- tnth&s tf.
Nicklin 8c Griffith, 5
C r*- '™ fnR SALE,
oail Cloth by the bale or piece,
, „ , (No. 1& 8)
One bale of feuming-rM ine 1
Copper in Iheets, from 24 b\ 48 to 48 by 60 .
inche« ; ( c
Two tubs raised copper flill bottoms w
Queens' ware ;iflort^d in crates
l.ondon porter in bottles, contained in cases
Empty port»wiue bottles p!
Yeliow ochre in calks cs
Cochineal in ferons
ludigo in do. St (a flc s p e
3 J cafe j and trunks of mullins, ginghams, dimi- fv
tus, niuflincts and pullicat handkerchiefs, in
fmad alTiirtcd packages, calculated for the fe
Wen India market ,•
. 14 trunks printed callicces u
4 baks calfimeres, assorted
' do. eoarf: woolens
"id M»deira wine 9 L
Sheathing paper
Englifc nails in cflks, assorted,
The Brig
AMAZON,
FOR sale OR CHARTS*. *
- P««"hc- >»■ m.w.&fa.tf
not ice. ol
ALL persons indebted to the cftate of Jamss
Tbo«F3o.v, of the Indian Queen, Fourth 3p
'f-'are d,f,red to m.kf payment to ™
th« Inhunhers—and t hos e who have any demands
agamft tije said efU-e, ,re requested t» irnd in their ' 1
recounts duly ittcflcl for fattlenent, to *
MARG.AHKT 1 HOMPSON.-J Admini lri rir. 1 *
JOHN THOMPSON, {.vdminia rator. j
807 - *•» ii»
Massachusetts District.
BY virtue of a Warrant from the honorable John
Lawell, <Hq. Jedgi.- of the Diflrid Court for
[" thi. Biftrirt cf Maflachuf t;«. ■' fhflrt will 1 e e*-
posed to sale at Awition, at the Marfiial's Office In
iioiton, on 1 urfday the Crft day of January mat,
[it at eleven o'clock : a certain Be* of Watches, lav
it from 'he wreck of the (hip Cokoka, ftranJed
at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant ha's ap
peared—'• said Box of Watches are to We fold for
the payment of Freight, Salvage, and otUercharg
e«, and for the benefit of all concerned, —via.
Tin Box 7 4 ° S..ver W ltc hc»
« * >37 Gold ditto
j 4 Papers Trinkets
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlhal,
of Maiflachufcttt.
Dated at Bollon, ")
Dec. 6. 1798, j IJ dti4
REMOVAL.
George Dobs on,
INFORMS hit friends and the Public iw general
that he hat removed from Wo. if, South Third
, Street, to No 9». South fide of Market-Arect, near
the corner of Third Street, and is how opening
a very extcofive a (Tor Ornery <-f
DRY GOODS,
. SUIT ABLE. FOR THE PRESENT SE A SON,
y WHICH HE lIAI JUST XICiIVIIJ,
>c Per the ships William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
f- from London, and per Chelkpcak and Thomas
t- from Liverpool, and will b»' fold low for ca(h,
rt or approved notes at a (hort date, viz,
b» London 7-4 Superfine Glotbs and
r ~ Caffimcre*, faftiionable colours
" Yc.-kfhire 7 4 do. and do.
3 - Mixt*l and plain costings
Welch flannels
5 Kerfcy beav»r, for Spencers
•C Jeanntyts and Tabby cords
-■ Velvet* aid velvetteens
ir Velverets and thickfetta
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linsn checks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
l.onion chintz and chttots furnitures
Furniture cot:ons
Do. cimities
Purple and chintz fhsjwls
Silk do.
Cainclt hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worftad hose
India and Bri.tifh muflinsof every description
Black and white c-rape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats a (Tor ted in ftiull cases
Umbrellas
Paeliogs and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French cambrick
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads v
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment of
Brufiels and Wilton Carpetin ;
r.ovtmbcr \ j
DRIED P* ACHis^
l In barrels i
1 Clara !
' Porter, and J-botti.es.
P<'rt Wioc J
And Cork ,in Bales—For sale bv
BENJ. W. MORRIS. 3
Dec - 20 eo6t <
R. TAYLOR,
1 MUSIC PROFESSOR,
R r „"' 9®' koxih iixTiwnitT,
ESI'F.CTFULLY informs the Public that
he continues to taaefi th« Hai/o [
Forte as usual.
** ov - 6 ' twhsa f
BOOX-K K EP{N «J. ~ I
Wants a Place, 1
AM BLIOIBLR t ,
ACCOMPTING-HOVSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes welt, is a Ready Reck- ~
oner, a Pook Keeper, and can be
well recommended, a line, (or personal applica
tion) dircfled t« M. M. No. 71, North Seventh- J
street, will be duly attended to d
N. B Books closed, an.-l new Aceompts open
ed, Partnsrfhip Accompts adjuftad, orany business
in the BooV-Keepi; g line, done at the above place,
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17 / 5
Genteel Boarding Lodrirv.
SEPARATE and ready furnifhed apart,nents _
with genteel Biarding and Lodging for the ac- R
commodation of four Gentlemen (with their Ladies 1
if required) may be had at No. 163, .Kh Street. " '
'* td6t
IHIRTT DOLLARS,
VTTILL be paid for apprehending and lod"- A
V V ingmaoy goal in t|* United States, the
following defcrtera fram the Delaware Sloop of P'
War, viz. r c»
Thomr;s Jones, seaman, formerly rtfided in th
Meade Alley, boninwark, Ught hair, tVeflj, om- co
p.exion and blue eyes, a!.out five-feet nine inch
es high. of
Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about five !,u
feet three mches high, %ht htir, grey eyes and
Iwarthy, about 11 years of »g e . a |f 0> tic
Richard Cu!ven, ordinary seaman, ahout five
feet, fix niches high, aged twenty-three years,
light hair, Mue eyes and swarthy. —Culven and ,l
Hrown'afe both native, of Philadelphia, and are
fi'pp»f;d to be concealed by fom* of thexr ac- "~
quaintance in this city.
STEPHEN DECATUR, /
Commander of the Delaware ■£
Sloop of W«r. 1»
"« *7 iis Mi
— ■ 8 re
i be Subscribers have for sale
Malaga Wine, in quarter casks ' ? E
*l?*°" dit '°' in PjP*. Hhds and quarter calks L '
Old Madeira ditto, fit for immediate y,
French Brandy . 0
Spaniflj ditto, (not colore*!) a
Medoc Claret, m C.tfct
Fir fort Inngiafs nte
I new CaWe, 9 irefcrs
I ditto |» inctk-s ,
1 eew Hatvfcr, 7 inches.
** n 3*
a i Just Arrived, '
ir la the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
._ now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
n Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
'» Brimttcne.
'j An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
K , V consisti»ic or
ir Opi.ai, Aloes, Cantharidei, Camphire, Senna,
. - Crcmor Tartar, See. &c.
' ElT:iic«of Lemon rnd Bcrgamot
¥>*klng paper
SwKKtoil in bottles and flalks
Olivet, aachovics and capers
Juniper berries
WiS o.—ltalian lutcftrings
Satins
Craves
Umbrellas
Refuaiiiiag on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
OldMadnira Wine of the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
November
Bond Sc Brooks,
Cornt* or Markit and Sixth si rests,
HAVE RECEIVED,
by the late arrivals fro(ii London, Liver
' pool and Hull,
A LARCI AMD OIN INAL ASS'IKMfcNT Of
DRY GOODS,
il, Which they arc now opening for sale at the nioft
reduced prises, tor calh t r the utuil credit,
j "ov §
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of ( Id LosAon particular
MADEIRA WINE,
11 strong iron bund Hambro' calks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 50. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM~ *' *■
A Cargo noiv landing at South Jlreet wharf,
tor sale by
F£T£X SLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO AI.SO OFFERS FOR SALE,
BRANDY, ift and 4th ptoof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Net. I. dtf
" NOTICE.i
PURSUANT to a Relblve of the Board of
rruflees of Washington Academy, in Som
erset county, Maryland, authoriling VVilliim
Polk, ef«y. majors Samuel Wilson, and
William Jones, Members of lkid Board, to
procure a principal tearher for said Academy.—
NOTiCE is here y given, that a gentleman quaii
fiad to teach the Gre<k and Latin LangUr gee, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and fu h other
branches of Literature as it is itiftomary to teach
in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
mi'nt ami it is presumed will be well accommodat
ed in taking charge of this Academy. The build
i*g is fpacibus and will accomodate at lealt City
Students.
Proposals may be addressed to Johp No.
161 Arch-street, or Williana Wmder, accoMnrant
in the Navy department, Walnwt street, I'hiladel
phia_ or to either of the three gentlemei. above
- -mentioned, near Pnncefs Anne, Maryland
det 17 S
W A iV fl D. ~
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly 1
Ladv, 'in a refpe<ftab!e private family, where
there are uo children. Enquire at this cffice.
dec » d isa
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
D ESPEC rFULLY informs his Friends and '
IV the Public in general that he carries on his -
' business at No 99 South St'ond-firvet, nearly op.
pofitc the Merchants Cojlee-fjoule whme gen
tlemen maybe ftipplied in the neatefl and belt
manner— heafiurcs Jjole who may please to fa
vor him wiih their a.inmands that noaweniion
or exertion on hiiffi.de (halt he wanting to render I
him worthy of their encouragement. ! j
NB. Orders receired,will be punflually at
tended to. t
november 5 4 fl
mTWET 1
ALL p-rfons who have any demands against
estate of the late William Clifton,
deceased.and wlio hav« not.a!rcadv |<rodueed their
their accounts, are requcft»d to fend them to the f
fublcriber at no. 171. north Second street
, , SLIZABETH TUCjCER, Adin'x
Philadelphia, hot. a 9, 179 g gi&th4w
JOHN SHIELDS, ~
B II O K E R,
Embraces this tp; at unit, to prefer, t his tbanki
to his fellow-citizens for their f*Jl fi-vors
and acquaints them that be is returtk d from
Cbel'nut Bill, to his former residence, the
Houfc ho. 1a Chclniit between Front
and Second-llreet,
he holds himlelf readv to execute
VV their commands in every branch of his
profeffion, tn.lliug that from a refidesce in this
t V , y .2* years he has it in his power to render
them cnential fervicc, alluring them that his 1
comnuflion fliall be as low as any in I own.
Lo'.ts, LskHs, Houses, Veflels, Certificates
of every delcnpt.on and Bills of Exchange, "
Iwiught- and fold, thedocketts carefully exam
ined and clear title# made upon th« IhorteA no- T
by the public s hhm!>le fcrvaut, -I
. _ John Shields.
C? Good negotiable Notts discounted co
it a low premium. J"
- novcmhcf 7 3 a«tf Sv
for sale, £
A W'n h ° U[ tWO «f fU
J. \ Land, at Rock-R»n. on the Head of the
I i4e water •TSu.quehannah, in Harford county cc
MarjiUnd, wftercofl is fw.k feventy-fiv. Vats a ho
Sto-c Mill .ndTan Houfc, with convenient^
, u r l Jri4 * for Bn ejt, enfivf Yard a f
a &wdhng-Houfe Rk c r |c „ and diver, other ufeful*
hnildings u erected tharcon, feme of the landV.n ,!n
U,weU,„,p r °, cdia KOuJ 1 [erring JZ
shore. Jhe imp<ov;ag I'own of Havre de Grace
-about fit m. esirtan: »nd yfiels 7
tfce a, w , pals dose by the premiics. ln
ment tw».M to pet Bark, a /lock of which with
the ttcnfiU for and ail the M ce % n f K^
Vats may be had with the Yat 1 p,, r thl
sxr''"-'-® r
, 4 , k !3 AAC
Jawjtr (
NOTICE.
id
• THE COPARTNERSHIP OF
HUDSON & YORKE,
i« this day diiTolved by mutual consent. All per
i, |°n» indebted to fa« firm are requested to mak«
immediate payment—and iSole who hive any de-j
n inandb are requclied to prelcut thtmf»r Liilement
to WILLI AM HUDSON, wlio it duly authorilnd
to adjust the fame.
WILLIAM HUDiOM,
SAMUEL YORK*'..
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, ND*TB r«0«T STKEIT,
Has for I'ale on the usual terms, a vejj
exteniive afTortmeut of
DRY GOODS.
Dec, 10. , ' 'jvir.
FOR SALE "
By the Sul/cribersy
ON VP. AY LOW Tk RMS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A iL'PFJUOR QUALITV,
Either by thcfmglc box of 7,+ i j*. or l>y tJu; quan*
tit y,
W"tlhngt ZZ Framu.
Nov. 44
" Notice.
A LL PerfWna indebted to the Estate of d ic
tor Hugh Hndge, deceased, are requrdrd
10 ma " 'tnniediate payment—and tbofe having
demands agpmft the Kftate aredelued to authen
ticate and paefent them to.
MR.I M HOl)Cadrr.tnijlratrix.
SAMUEL HODG&EN, adminiJiralor\
nov 40 q
r Notice is hereby Given,'
THAI" application will b; made aj th.> Trea.
fury of t it United Scares, for the renewal of
the fodiowmg cer'ificates ot Suudcd Debt, dand
rng in the name ol Robert Wtiirworth, of Cheltra
London, thelaid Certificates having been forward
' cd b V the ft'? E'lki, Hatvey, from London for
Nevr.-V ork, captured by the French, and fuppolbd
to be los. rr
V 6 Pcr C**' Stork, dated New
ark, 18th Apul, 1596, i.r Dollar.. i 4 g 1147 .
No. 8171 3 Per Cent, dated Nev/-\ ork
ißlh April for doHars 40c. ' '
MILBANK
noremNr 18 a6w
f Notice is hereby Given
t That application will be made at the
;1 ° f l . he Un 'tcd States for tl>e renewal o 1
0 the following certificates of B. nk fiodt, lUadin®
_ jo the name ot Hodgfoo Atkinion of London
which wi re loft fropi on board the Swal'ow Pac
ket eapt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
r persons cosaert.ed are desired to take notice.
h No. 2474, iffned in lieu of No. 1801,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 shares.
No. 3020 iflued in lieu of iiocc, au>l
1I0 S?> for 3 liares— 7 shares.
THOMAS M EUENfcf Co
-. ■ nov - a * dam
1 J AMES &; RICH. > RUolVii 1 H,"
* t-I A y E 'hiaday returned from the country Jo
No " 4. South Ftont firU,
where they heve lor ta)», a, uraal „ rirge and •
neral aiToitment of European and East India
DRI GOODS,
p most oi which have now arrived an. are
from the djfferent vtfftl', from Hamburgh IJI
dou, Liverpool atxi Hull. 0
I heir Culteajer- by arpl' ine will fin t „a
every art.ckgenera.ly J
price, for caih or Credit, as Aey can be had elfc-
N. B. A few Cases of Murenhergh TOYS a
1 teTVf h / f,,ld b y th < only. '
i Nov. 1. i 7u g. 7 dtf
B-ngliih wroughTNails.
1 ImforUd in the fi~ oU y and D ,
J-IVERPOOI.
I 4°3 Casks of Nails.
CONSJSTKVG ot 6d) gd> 10-t » and
fckSArr; ,? bie for ihe
ftafp.-alfo* f, 3 4 d ' I*l' V' d ? od ' fi«!"rawa
4, «nd 6 clouts— fories
nails fheathi-ng na,li,
roa tALt st,
Robert Denifon, junr.
■ »7 Market-street.
For Sale,at the btores ol the Sub^
fenbers, on Walnut Greet Wharf
195 calks of nailt alTorted >
lo hjles ef fail canvas., from No. 1 to 8
5 3 t-'afks yellow ochrc
I j t'erces bottled porter, 6 to 14 dez. each
London particular \ ,
It'tiia market j Madeira Wines
}"«><* , ia hocOieadsand
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Empty Claret bottles
6 C 2tr6nL G r n S h n D ' nMet ' U.
A 5 t . he y v market
4. 10, and 9 inch cable.and to coil.of cordart
w r.tuigfiates, ink fUnds and preffe. 8
as purcheoss Jamaica rom '
I bale seaming twice
160 bundles lheathing paper
april 7 NiMn Gr,ffith
— tuth&f.tf
pußsuA,i»r 2 ten ,
Plantation & ] raft 0 f Land
cj.ma.nmg o ß e hundre.l ai d f ien,v ,h„ *
.he Teflator's - a!e lu'L ""I'
Sufquehanna lumdreii, Ccncil c, u -. t y J' "'I 1
about three mile from th , t,de- w arer „f .'
hanna,auH at a crnvi-ni. Nt rliftaric* r
places of worthip „f Erirnk a d Jr f ' Vtral
On tht prcmJ.v lrt a
ce belonging thereto in J,uj - <W' ica
hot,f., liable, orthard and othTTm dv'c"'rS
wi'h ta or If acres of on,, t , . 1 roVcm eutf,
4 fuffieicnt proportion of raluat.ie
~ F " rtem ' a l'Wy to the ft: fcriher, in W # ft v n ,
tingham, miles from the premTf" NOt "
me _ IJ SS^ WAR ' NO '
Instance
th*T"n r SOtifie<l
Steven O'clock. 7 °' J» nu »'y n«t at
dec, JAMES S COX, Prefi.ient.
dtl 4 JDele ware £sf Schuylkill Canal.
j ""HS Stockholders are hereby notifi d, 'hit the
L Ele.i:on for Preti.'.ent and rs for th.
fcnfning year, will be held at the Company'* Oflic
on the firO 1« onJ-dey in January n,xt, at ten
o'c'aek in the forenoon.
Susquehann.i tsf Schuylkill Canal.
T HE Stockholiiers are hereby notified, that the
Elc3ion for t rcfijuiit and Managers, for the enlu
mg year, wifl bs held at the Cvnpam's Office, ofi
the firft fccond i:ay m January next ac ten o'clock
. as.
GI.O. VVORRALL, fec'v
to Delaware fcf Schuylkill Canal Compa y.
dee T9 ote
Ibe Subscribers,
fiaveteceived by the Liverpool
A co -iiesMivr or Tc» t'A'ls or
Well Aflorted Buttons,
About fterltng each Cafe, which tJ'ey will
difpt fc oi per package, on Übrrai Icri.
Metford & milis.
No. 78, Nor h Front near Arch street.
WA\TID,
UT fifry Casks oi
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
as above.
dec »i - ** v • C
THE FORMci,
AS by theComtnifUa.ers of Penn
ivlva ia, foi the return ot DWELLING
H'-MISEs, LANOS and SLAVES, may be (
had**r *
Jo/eph i2T "James Cruckshank's, I
Ko. »j, Market Street.
Dec. ic tt
To be . v o!d,
The time o'a fluu. healthy Negro Lad, igad
about 17 years, and bound to serve until 11 j q
he is honeft.onderllan s the 1 fujl buflnefs oi a
family, and has acci#omed to wait on
table—Applv 10
BENJAMIN R. MO'.GAN,
No. «>, Arch llreet.
>det(*t»iher Ir> d6t
FIJjU'A, FOR SaLE,
DELIVERABLE at New-Castle or Port 1
Pei:n. hy
LEVI HOLLIN'"SVV">RTH k SON
tier 19 II4W
!in~S~H~L IN FITS, "
4-4 and 7-!<tli White I.tucas welK
alTi) etd 1 En itied '
j-4 Hjown r!itt« ditto to the 1
.■? 4 fri(h Ch<>cque« ftiitable for tSe \ Drawback.
Wcft-ln ia Market. J
FOR SALE, co
On rcafonahl. terrv,-*by the 3 a nr Hale,
By GjMBtS IS Hn Lt/VTH,
No. 148, -Sou h s - -ect.
dee to yawtf wl
' fin
OHN J. PARRY,
CLOCK ssr WATCHMAKER, fin
IMS (i%#tn "pericd nt hij u/ua/ Stand, No. jg,
South SecondJlrfft'—where he htu for Salt*, wh
A VAKIJTY OF haJ
Exctllerit Gold b* Silver Watches, an <
AND A raw
Eight Day Cclocks,
H'hicb =im!l be -jiftrmnted- to gfv.- fatisfaSion. 0 f
An alTortment of ln<
Gold, Strei and Gilt chains, Srn/s arid Keys. lifh
AH kinds of Clock md Wat eh tvork done u)ith
p irtieular attention as heretofore.
O" An Apprentice wanted. f
novemie- Jz . _m*si&f'tw- „i,
A 7 0 rJC E. I
THE. ?uMic »r • cautioned nit to trust any of <wc
tke paopk; belonging to the Swe<!ift Snow Maris, '
on my account. 'ar,
Hans Olof Kock, 'master.
dec 10 5^
70 hhds. Santa Cruz Sugar anri
OF xcellent qua'ity (in tores of J"hn Nixon,efq,
aird Co ) A qun if o* "
SAIL CANVASS,
anU a Box of Mane iW-fal
STEPHEN Kr.VGSrOW, s
'lec at
A Rinjj of Small Keys. ?
■Wa* lot! y. aftemM —anyptrlon deliver- p
iDg them at iK.i uSicc w : !l b« rewarded.
*' 4t
14 Pipes Madeira Wine,
FOR SAL I BY
Crooie Stevenson,
No 4, S'jut'i Witer-ilreet.
die 2i 5
7 bis Day Pubtijhed, E
And for faieat the Office of the Editor, No. Pre:
U9 Chelnut-fli'er't, ingt
(Price l-%tb of a Dol.ar,) 4 m«
AN ORATION, cei*
Pronounced July 4, 1798, " ew
At thcreqneft of the Inhabitants of the Town cf * nd
BOSTON, in commemoration of the- anni-
verl'ary of American Independence.
By Jotuu QvtNcr.
" The inroids upon oat public liberty, call *■
for rrparatiwi—The wrongs we have ftiltained,
call tor —Justice. That Reperation and tint 1
Juflire, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, «>n
Firmre.s But to divide and conquer wis ' dan
th« maxim of the Oevil in the girden of Eden, ,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the prinri- • J"
p!e of all bis votaries from that period to the '* 1
prefeut." , Mn
Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, life.p. 7S V" 1 '
by th, late J. suinry, jun.
angult ti
This Day is Fablidied, 1
AHUIOKSAMBV J.»r»KO. I IQ,C HES |f UT-S"» ■1 XT
AN ADDRESS N ;
'/o the People of Maryland, by
ON the origin, prngrifs and pre( at ft»« of
French aggreirion. with i (ketch of the infamous
attempts ts degrade the Government of the United ]
States, and some reflection, on the la'e proceeding* finr
in Congress; written the lift of April in the pre , tie<i
sent year, by a M mberof the Hovfe of tteprefen- 1
"tivas. f jmtlt me
i J Ri>TiNG Work,
Of Jt vcrj Kind, r
.EXECUTED At THE SH< ;RTES7
NOTICE.
At the Office of the G**tTTt of th*
INtTsDSrarn,
*>e». ij. d,f.
"T F. A. Hi
A Few Chests of }
UtfRRIAL TR A, and
For fa'e. n nafouable terms, m N'o 4a, South 1 oth
Hocnnd-Atui. I
it »» uwif | 1
t >#«.» ' »
\fjg On Saturday next, the 29th Indent, j.«t 7
e'-» sick. I • {,' y. r»C'iti it I tic Mir.
I. ch-"i»s C fft-c Hcufr will be fold for a
the approved indorsed note at months,
sT THE BRIGAXTINE
t,r S A L L Y '
WITH Jif-*ppt*r?manee* a* (he frprr» Sea,
.n inventory oi which iray b« l'een it the auiliou
. er% (htifc fr.t-ai'oret-cnt, built oi
' f w. ite 01k in the stare ol Vew-Jerfey, ard now
' U i'Cf at Mr. Fvres wl-irT iu
FOOTMAN W U. auaiomert.
dec 24 dt»
I'MTID States, -
J- Petiniylvania pAri&b j «*"
t Vf OIICK i* hcrm*y givtn that in pursuance of a
IN writ to me dircciLd, from the Honorable
Richard Ptreßft, tfq. judge ot the Dilliift
30l Conrt of the Uniied i>tatc» in anJ for the Penn
sylvania Oiltrid. will be eipofed to puhbc Jale
at the houfc of James A Hi, CI4. iu Tin fd ftrect,
o*i Saturday the 19th instant, at 12 o'clock at
noon,
2 Hogsheads and
2 Barrels of Spirits.
The si 'tc having been lihel]rd agairft, pr«fecuted
and condemned a' fo'feitedin ' b'' said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
' Marshal.
Marshals Office, Dec. 15th, 1798.
_ PROPOSALS
FOR Pt'BLISHIVG A NhW
n UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER,
G OK MODtBN
3C GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARI':
CONTAINING,
A JhH and authentic descrtptUn of all the Em- '
fii-tj. Kingdoms, Repuh ics, States, provin
ces, lslu,iai. Cities, Towns, Rivers, Seas. 1
Bats, Gulfs, and Harbors, in rhe kneiun
•world.
LIKEWISE, }
i Th* Government, Customs, Manners, and Re- -
4 itqion of the inhabitants ; <with many inter- i
" e fi tn X particulars relative to Trade, Manu
fadui 's, and Natural Curiosities.
Br JOSEPH SCOTT,
AUTHOR OF THE e
[ UNITED STATES GAZETTEER. °
The advantages -which this tvo'lt possesses
ever every publtcntton of the kind, are,
j.L IT will contain descriptions of mmy
thou/an<J pliers, which are not found in any of
ur GiZct'.eers. ,
jd- The new political diviGons which have p
taken plate, 111 those countries of Europe, in o
of the French revolution ; whilst fy
» due regard will be paid to the old divifium, fh
for the fake of thof. who read History. de
3d. The account of several thouland placet, to
will be more copious than is found in any *
similar work. ' ha
4tb. Matty errors in foraier publication; will J a
be corrected, relative to latitude, longitude, ® n
foliation, and extent of towns and countries.
sth. With refpefl to that part of the work
which relate, to the United States, the author
has received upurards of fix hundred letters,
and is da ly receiving more, from gentlemen of
the firft information, in different parts of the
Union, which will enable him to give a much
more copious and corre« topographical account L
of our counties, towns, rivers, foil, produce,
*nd natural curiosities, than has ever been nub- C t
ITflted. r thl
CONDITIONS.
I. The new Gosrf/wwfl 1 he prin
ted fine paper, with a handsome type, in -
o'.lavo, p<"<
11. It will be comprised in thirty, or thirty- clil
two numbers, of 56 pages each
111. Each-number is to be a quarter of a dol
lar, to be paid on delivery. an<
IV In the eourfe of the publication twenty- T r
five map* will be delivered. A!<o, two pla es, •
explanatory of the firft principles of geoeiapby 0i
and aftrjiomy. I
V. ITie work will be publifted with ali pof
fihle sxpedition.
VI. A lift of the fubferiber* names will be
annexed to the work- "P
Suhfcriptions ire received by the Author at
No. a 75 Market-Street.
Dec. » 4 . at J
r t
Pocket Books, for the ytar 1799.
THIS DA» WAS tVIIISHID, ]S
Br WILLIAM T. BIRCH\ c««
No, 17, South Sscqnd-flreet. " '
THE AME RICAN L A DIES " I
POCKET-BOOK; m!
for rue r&AR 1799. fiv<
Embellifced with miniature likenesses of the Cel
Prefideut of the United States and General Wash
ington ; containing an Almanack, raled pages lor fcr
memorandums, and for an account of monies re- J ut
ceived, paid or lent, for every day in the year ; UI
new country dances, mifcellanious pi ces in prose "
and verse, new songs, a marketing table, and otl*r
ufeful tabW Tri
ALSO, . Cei
THE CEXTLE \JAV'j ANK'h/iL to I
POCKET REMEMBRANCER,
rox The tear 1799.
Embelliibwu with the famt miniature likenesses, i
containing an almanack, ruled pages for memoran- aiK
d»ms and a eafh accoant, a lift of the members of , h e
Cvgret>, the departments of Sia'e, War, Navy, f an
. Treajury and Judicjary. with an account of what c hi
r maunal m each; the red ral courts «f law. p „
M.nt eflahlifhment heads of all the mo t impor- L|
tant afi, of last session of Congref,, a lift of the L
stamp duties, of dunes payable on goo* imported ft/,
and on domefkie sn*les, aim of th. Br tiib narr f or
several ufeful tables anJ other intending matter.' °[
wkh^«k7»^k"eu ,eJtiy "° UBd ' nrCJWh -
H 'j' 81l ' mor e; Somcrville, f„b
New York ; Ba.ley and WalUr, Charleston; and be ,
by the pnncipa. h.»-kle !er-> in Boston.
WHERE ALSO MAT BE HAD,
[price ■} j.j cents.] .
Heads of the molt important afls of the laft/ef
fion cf Congref., print.d in a pocket Cze, and
. neatly .lon- up in marble paper.
W Y. Bi ics has for file, a good assortment oT (
merchants account kocis, paper and other (lation- Co
ary gooos, pliymg cards, hair and leather trunks.
P
French Language. £
G. DUFIEF, 1
No. 63, South Second St*e E t, V!i
w.LI. on N cc *
I lis DAY and EVENING SCHOOL, li
Cn II etlnejday, the 14th Jnjl. P"
v'_ B * Private l aKinn attended to a« ufiial
and Tra fct.ons from either Ungu. K .e into the
performed wub accuracy, fccreey, an J
I DO*. 10 fw
u r :| Ricket t's Circus.
lJt MR. rICKETT'%,
WITH rht ni'ift Gncere refn A, sequent"- hit
frifßJt a.-.a 'he pu ilic, ij -it hu ha* return
ed™ 1 hilad»|phi» and W'll open "ni« l"I in .
Chtfoot.irri.it. ttei: Weenefdajr tv.ning, withll
vane y of ARW PERFORMANCES, forne nf |
which i'C (' 1' ctt-d during his tour ih'puph Canada.
Jtc Arhi«rfi which are. a ju'.i repfif.-n»ation of
f o ° INDIAN-SCALP-DANCE.
Which he acqu.red 'ron* the chief* us the Seven
Na:ion»at C cbtaicaga
A G WA D CJrJtn-fflP,
Confiding «f Warriors in the drefle- of the
fereut nation of /.lia, Africa, Eui ope and Ame
rica.
> r > Th* rxerrUt of the
BROAD SWORD,
an _ lo which he will introduce the Guakos of earh
a t nation, and alfn a new America* qua«» mounted
x[ on the charger Cornplan'er.
at 4 reprtfentaiion nf
REAL ACTION,
To/ether wi'h a number of extraordinary feats
of Horsemanship, Stage Performances, Songs,
Dances, ind other agreeable e.itertai'ments,which
ed he will not at present pretend to at
lu'hopea hy his e*crti«>n to render real fatisfaSion,
& andme.it a continuance of that generous appro
bation and support which he so often experienced
in thisci'y, and for which he will ever feel the
dee& eft sense of gratitude.
In the cotuie of the evening there will be dif
p'ayed several ludicron-. scenes, in one of which
Mr. R.. will appear in a Canada Winter Dress.
' The whole ta conclude with Ha lift going to the
Ele&ion at St Lavrnu.
N B Ihe Cir:ushas undergone a complete re
pair and is furnifhed with Uov«» that mull render
it extremely comfortable.
#*# The doors will he open at fix—the perlor
f mance r• commence prtcde yat fevrno'clock.
' n B<x, one dollar : Kit, half a dollar.
Tickets to he had at the Ear of CEller.s' Motel,
and at the Ticket Office adjoining the Circus.
dec 14
•- Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike Road
j Company.
THE STOCKHOLDERS, ]
A RE hereby notified that an EleSion for Pre- ■
si dent, Managers and other officers for the
enfuiiij; year, will be held at the Company's Office ,
on Moini .y the 14th January next at ten o'clock.
Wm.GOVETT, Secretary. 1
cc 11 m&tU4'.v t
I "" — t
the carniToßs,
Of JOHN M'DON/tLD,
' or PH! LADt LtHI A.
\ R E hereby notified, that application t» the 1
-XX. Court of Common Plea*, for the county of
Philadelphia—for the benefit of the Ad of the s
General Assembly, »f the Commonwealth of Penn a
fylvania, providing that the perf'on of a Debtor f
shall not be liable to imprisonment for debt, after
| delivering op his e«»tefor the benefit of his credi
tors, Sec.—palled the 4th day of April, anno do- ©
mini, 1798; and that the Judges of ford Court 2
hate appointed Wednrfday, the second day of u
January nrzt for a hearing of said John M'Doc&ld
and his Creditors, where yon may attend.
JOHN M'DONALD P
<]<* IP f wed t(
A N AC T, £
Limiting the time within which claims again ft /
the United Stares, for credits on the hooka of !
the Tiealury, may be presented for allowance "
BE it enafted by the Senate and House of Re- ai
preventatives of the United States of /!me ri- w
ca, in Cvngreft ajembled, That all credits on ol
the books of the freafury of the United S.aaes, ar
for rranfatflions during the late *ar, which,
according to the course of the Treasury have i
hitherto beea discharged by ifTuiag rertificxtea C
of rej?iftcr«d dfhjv W-rrrrr-7>* j..,, a HH
prccluftwl from settlement or allowance, Htilefs l ''
claimed by the proper rreditors, or their legal
representatives, on or befwe the firft day of at
March, in the year ne tboufand seven hundred th
and ninety-nine. And the Secretary of the f,
Treasury is hereby required to cause this A£i to
be puhlifhed in one or more of the public papers .
of each state. Ed
(Signed) JONATHAN DAYTQN,
Speaker of the H.nTe of Representatives.
THEODORE SEDGWICK, to
Prefi'lent of the Senate. Pro. Tem. 5c
Approved Jtily 9, *79»- m
JOHN ADAMS, , ri
President of the United Stares.
Pe-emher t 3 . w t ift Var.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT in
NJone 17, 1798. to
OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir- nc
tue of an a3, paSedduring the profent fcf. ft
fion «f Congrefa, so much cf the aft entituled
" An AA making further provision for the sup
« port of public credit, and far the redemption IZI
'• of the pulalk debt"—pal Ted the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety- tb
five, a» bars from settlement or allowance, Sc
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In-
ferefts, is suspended until the twelfth day oj 0
June, which will be in the year one thoafand seven
hundred and ninety nin;. m,
That on die liquidation and settlement of the co
laid and Indents of Interest, at the .v.
Treasury, the Creditors will be entiled to receive
Certificates gf funded ThrcePer Cent. Stockequal °'
to the amount of the said Indents, and the atrear-
ages ol interest du; on their said Certificates, prior Sli
to the firß day of January one thousand (even an
hundred and ninety one. P
That the principal fumsof the said Loan Office j *
and final lettlement Certificates, with the interest
thereon, finee the firft day of January, one thou- sol
sand seven hundred and ninety one. will be dif- its
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the be
payment of interest and reimburfvment of princf- tec
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
payable thereon, if the said Certifiers had been ™
fu feesbed, pnrfinnt to the making provision be !
for the debts of the United States, contracted dar
•ng the late war, and by the payment of other da
rums, equri to the market value of the remaining ffa
Stock, whiah would have been created by fueh „ 1
fubfer, r t,on. a. aforefaid, wh.ch market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of the Treasury. tC
OLIVER WOLCOTT, "
Secretary ./ tb, Trm/try.
lawtf th
Ephraim Clark, £
clock &f jvArch maker, *
Corner of Front and Market flreets, Philadelphia, f°
HAS JUST RECEIVED, ' T]
R ' 'he diffcrent arrivals, a largt supply of CWh
1J and W ateh makers and Silver Smiths Tools ah
■IQS ana matcriala,
CORIItTIHC ar ■ C 'r
Ur P c 'mall Beech and Hand
'*j n r " Pl T cr, » hiding Ton?*, Bra C 0
ces and B.tts, Grooving to.ls, Saw,, Scratch br.lh- i«l
f' „ „ P'P"' Screw and Draw plates, larire and ~
fniall Hamtner<, Clock dial., cast brass Bells, for
ged w«k and pinions. Eatery, Rotten flone, Pu- P T
3 wrr ,^ 1, n Sp ' lter Sorder - 3rlf '- s '--' and r,
rtm w.re, (hcet Brass, maa>Lfpringa anl clalles ri
**ld gil- and steel chain,, fcaU anf teys, &c. Ie "
eodtf If
. 1
his PHILADELPHIA,
J" WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER »6.
nf
d '
Tj the Senate and HH'sf. of Represex-
VArirts of the Co w mon r>; al th of Penm
en srLVAXIA, in General Assembly met.
THE MEMORIAL,
!''■ Of the incorporrited. com;iany, llvled " the
,c President, Managers and Company, of the j
Delaware and Schuylkill CnJi.il Navigation, j
REsfßcrevtw Shehetn,
h THAT your Memorialists, since ;
their incorporation, employing their bed skill, [
assisted by an able and experienced engineer, j
have, to the utm.ift extent of their resources, t
1 and with all diligence', exerted themil-lves in
it, J the prolbcution of the great work committed
rs, to their management, and have, from time to a
ch time, communrcated, to tlw Legislature and e
a ' their fellow-citizcns, its gradual prog rets, and
o ' the difEculties they have labored under from j
■d sundry caul'es ; the chief of which have been, tj
le the great increase in the price of labor, a
growing scarcity of money, and more par-
ticularly the liberty aliowei by law, even for a
solvent (bareholders, to refufe payment and
IC forfeit their lharcs, when they get dilcourag- | t |
ed or diffatisfied with the avork, under an j t i
■- apprehension that it cannot be completed k
:r within the time prelcribed in the Act ; and r,
that it is better to forfeit* part of their in
terest early, than to forfeit their whole rights w
and privileges to tiie Legiflatare at Islt, if j
I, the Cannl Ihould not be completed at the ex- J.
piration of 10 years from the date of the w
ad, which will be on April 10th 1802.
i To those communications, remaining u .
among your files, and for the most part col- j p i
lefted and laid before the public, in a largt !
printed pamphlet, your memorialists again m
• pray attentiofi, and particularly to the ad- y
| uress and petition presented early in the last t j,
1 feflions of the Legislature ; which has an t h
immediate connexion with that important ft,
objeft, then and now claiming the mcfl feri- i i n
ouspublic confideraticr.—namely "the means ' p c
ot introducing a copious fupplv of water in- v ij
to our city and suburbs, as weil for culinary bv
. uses, as for cleansing our flreets, the extin- . th<
guishment of fire, and for Fountains and Re- tu
serooirs, tending both to ornament, health, . t h,
and a purer atmofpljere, in the dry and warm Dri
seasons."
an
\our memorialirts, by fiction 3d and 4th evi
of their aft of incorporation, are authorised o n
and empowered, by means of the said Canal, flu
" to supply the city of Philadelphia and its die
neighborhood, with water" (for the aforefaid tu:
purposes) "at limited prices, in proportion fpg
to the capital to be expended on the work ; ■
and, for that end, to take as much wat;r up ,
from the river Schuylkill at, or within a mile 1 m c
below the mouth ol Stony Creek, as 1
through a ■aiater-v.'cy of thirty feet 1a width;" i jr. ,
and also, ii any lower Cut between I3ela- ! noj
ware and Schuylkill, for the general purposes j f or
ol the works, be necellary near the city, they 1 a ;f,
are veiled w.th power " to take water from j St.
any of the ft reams lying between the
bounds--of -the sc*' rtilbncs.af we-
thi retrcm, and to conduit them into tee
thp said Canal which includes the waters nll(
of li'issahickon-Creeft, the Runs emptying the
at, and below, the Folic, Cobockson-Creek, [a tl
the three mile-run, Logons mill-run, aed \
Fratikford-Creek. of
That the act of incorporation was found
ed chiefly on the statement of a previous act
iuroey and level, made from Philadelphia to tW£
Nornftown at private expence, with a view Teo
city, and finding a point in t} £
cbujiKtil, from which a supply of water mo
might be carried to the highest part in the f ua .
ground plots ot the city and its suburbs, ade- t ; t ,
yute to all the purposes contemplated for hav
health, use and ornament upon any probable cu j.
increalc of inhabitants for generations yet defi
to come ; and to be, at the lame time, con- i a
netted with the great plan of our Inland Wlt
Navigation, - . , 1
1 hat as soon as the company was orjsn- H.J
' u h j ?f IWent and Managers (although tak
they had lull confidence in the accuracy of ton
P r ™' 0 "* ascertaining the rivar
Schuylkill, at the mouth of Stone-Creek, to nf,
be of fu.be,ent height above the h.gheft part u '
of the City, for the joint purposes of watering hea "
the fame, and of navigation) were sensible that "Z
more remained to be done before they could "cr
commence their operations; and, therefore, on Tt
tie 21ft ot August , 79 2, A special committee mit
ot three members was appointed, with the tf
following inltruttiona, vi«. " To examine, T
survey & Wthe ground, between Schuylkill
and Delaware from the upper fide of Stone-
Creek,to the north bounds of the city ; and to ft rl
determineandmarkout the most eligible track
for the intended Canal; and also to ascertain ~l ld
its di men lions, with the grounds necessary to b l
be purchased for the fame." This Commit- \?'{
tee compleated the bulinefs of their appoint
raent, in the month of September, and the n Z
beginning of October following, having
placed „ 3 level-ftakes|from Norritcn nM-
dam to Broad-Street continued, that is, one
stake orpoft in about every fifty perch,,, the I
whole distance or length of the Canal beint !
seventeen miles and 255 perches ; and having
"Parted zt large to the Board of Manager,, fZ,
they immediately commenced aad prosecuted
their operations, imtil the arrival of their En- ♦
gmeer from England ; whole firft fe rv ' lt e
of the Canal, with the projections and plans Zl
The'rM A* * °"' T C ° m , pitaUn «' wat
} hc , r " !//< was, that m the three • separate
2? a within cc f
ibout two inches, in i 7 m il es and three K.ll
of thTc ! the 4n * t,fioni track er "
of tj»e Canal, from the nature of the cround \
could not have },« n Hid c g- . 5 '
h,
. * ls! or previous level -was made as witl
r'mo-l c "ml cb L U P bj Tfncb Franei * 11111
r ; :be 2li as c nm - in v
UnhoS £ L Dav,d
and Samuel P
Ife tn r • ' a ' d t9e 3*bWrr.. 1^"
engineer. res.i
slope in the banks. TW l
luccefs in our lt L i
-th. r Legifeun
tion of lhares (after tk or P ar "
aid to their inland tates whol
5. greatly the fort of o u - s f " has i
neverthelels, ftilj d qi ,/..[° Ur
aid of an enlighten,,! L«l t 0n futon
r " their exertions ; and their "?**»*
Ug.flati.re in December addrefi to tl*
they now refer more at b' ? 97 ' ( to whicl
- with great
a deep and Terioiis imoreflion V ervc d
ffl.nds of the citizens "of this u P°Dth<
from the lofles and uL„ , n,tiltl ' l
and contagious sickness 7o ur peft,lcn *»l
« and ,t, vicinity ; and that ™
' der Divine Providence of « un -
; r > future visitations of a like S 3
. ' their severity, whether the or
» ported
w as the opinion of the abl ft *1 *
tO . afters, fanai on edbyThead?r me rCalchar
"j executive magistrate, that hicf
der to ensure such a f UD nk- r/ » 10 0%
medium of canals, fo r b
and convenience of the citv a „rl • nl,ne '
J •ppt.rs to ha-e efcjfe*'
-leral convenience, as w#-H -.c . , 8* *
>- | the community to which it £ 2jt f
' the Lxecutiv : * **■• r
terms, that " the bufiuef- ri ' ' c
d (then) w;thia a perioi'of /- <?' = *
: (and now *bke Within a period offZ f* 5
; wit,i aggravated leverity) beendeid'j"' '
* iPTulation dispersed, a ij it<! n ! ' s
- ; dangered ; and that th- whole com 7
;e | was, therefore, de.ply roi TT *
I dent of every fc2Lf d \
5 upon a m ae calculation
- r '~4:sst?
, xour memona lifts f nr tk r ~ r ,
their Address and
' ; Can#/ under their rfireaioa,being i a „ r
t forwardneis (indeed at lead
in expenle, according to their AA of W
S P? Nt the double purpose of a'
; I and Bering the city) E; i
■bv the Leg.flature, andCorpoite B of
" the crtyand its fuburis, wocld Iti £
turest and read: est mean f or accompli,'], n?
. • tne UencVolent purpofcs propped, ,ll t
probably within the (ho a period of two yn"
and that they couriered it as their duty, i'y
every means m their power, to expeuit- lo
great a work, under the far.ftion, and with
■ the aid of th; Legulative and Coroora- Be
dies alorefaid ;" fabmitt.ng to* the
ture a prop, fit,on under tbr ee f
lpeedy issue to the undertaking.
1 early in the laid month of December
■ upon the application of the
mon Councils of the city of Philadelphia, a
J ITTT 7V flmrnenCed between them
w.d the Canal Board, and Committees ap.
pointed on each part, viz. a joint Committee '
: tor the Seltft and Common Council-,, .:nd
C Committee of the Managers mi
I Stockholders of the Canal Company. In an
T early ftige of this r.egoc'iation. Lnd<y queries
t^f^r'?r Part
e cf the City Council,, to the joint Ccm
mittee of the Managers and Stocfcoldej,
the Canal Coin'pany, and ty the
latter, December 19th, their addr.fs
to the former, annexed to the printed tep-rt
of the Sxrlefi and Common Councils, to
which your memorialiih refer for the gen; »1
account oi the whole negociation between tl e
two bodies, dated January 31ft 1793. I n t h; t
report it is dated by the joint committee < f
the ickdt axul common councils, 44 That i
moflj the various methods which have bern
for introducing a fufikient quan
tity of wholefomj; water into the city, none
have appeared to your coremittee so well cal
culated to ensure the attainment of that
deGreable objeft, as the completion of tbt De
la-ivart and Schuylkill Cam!; That imprrlTed
with this beliet, and convinced that the pro
fccution of this objeft, would rjfo contri
bute to aid the great and important under
taking of tnlj7id navigation as this canal
forms a capital link In the great chain of na
vigation between our mttropolis, and the
Ohio and the western lakes they conficered
that in addition to contributing to th;
health of the community, they would en
creafe the prosperity of the city by taking
eiiediual measures for accompliiliing thisur*
dertaking in which opinion the ta»aUor»-
mittee could not but heartily concur;—mo ft
especially as the introducing a copious fuj
ply of water into the citv and its fuburbr,
was one of the chief objeiit of our iacorpi»
ration ; upon which object, in order to coi -
ftru& the canal upon a level and of dhze; -
stons fufEcient for accommodating the ci;y
and suburbs with water (to the amount cf
half a million of cubic feet pfrhour) a fcm
has been already expended, at least equal to
what the canal for the purposes of navigation
alone would have coil ; and tlicrtf>rc that
the double object of watering the city, and
compleating the canal as a great link of na
vigation for the special benc£t cf the «£»
as well, as of our general country ccmn'crte»
ought not to be separated; and indeed, in
the belief of your memorialists, c»nr.ot be
leparated, as no other fonrce, except from
Schuylkill as high as Stone creek, can be
found for the ut ceflary quantity of water ;
and if such neceflary quantity could be found
by the junftion of various other dreams, the
cost would far exceed that of introducing '■!
water by means of tliat canal, and occasion
a great lot's of time, in exploring new sour
ces, when an obvious plan is at hand, and
half compleated at the cost of tl* (locilwU
ers of the canal company.
! \ our memorialists need scarcely add that
the negociation between the Canal company
and the city councils neceCarilv terminated
whhthe laflfeflion of the legislature, w.tj
otit producin? arv eif '<sl for the great cbject
in view. n*fs<»J» bf-injf} rovided praidg-v
---the
conx-iation r-f th.* citr, cither jointly or t
parately, to prcfecut: thr wrrk. or tlieir
rei' t >-i\i,v j:a:ts of it. -.corJl.ig to thefr, a i -'V n-M rV ' j
of the rc-5/m' rodue'n- w t:r for *h; ! j
ufc eh/ aid. our inJjtU j \
11a •••'•ration. H
Your msnWrial Is, tb-rrtor' pray, for j t
thetni'slrrs, and on b:half of the corporate j t
bodies of the fcity and suburbs, as well as of | t
anr osier bodies, Y-'ho from the prefifiunn- t
oeflity of £h- iTWifure raay urifti, on tortus on j (
rri"- , -'-!l pubV'c anJ af-fulncfs, to u- 1 1
nite tbe funds in tlifiV povr-r, or committed j
to tlieir t'ruft—.that t'.. hvjflatu'e may grant
aporopriite, tli. duties on fjl;s at auc- |
tion, rh- houfebailt for tlte President of the
.UnitedStitrs and Ist*thereoqt# attached;
or so tn'.ich of their "Bock in the B.ink of
PencfvK-ania, as bein j pledged with the
(lock of the canal company, will finally com
pleat the Rieat work and fenire an interefl
to the commonwealth, eijual at least to what
tfky can now draw from the appropriations
solicited by vow memorialifls, joined to the
hipft fatisfa&ion which a wife and humane
feeiflature fflnfl derive, 111 bein? the happy
inflruments of so much benefit to their coun- :
try. I
'By order on behalf of the corpora- 1
tioa.
Wm. SANSOM, Pr'esidert.
December 21, iJ9?.
' 1
iDomellic
1, 1 ipj 11
NORFOLK, D cemb.r 13.
On Mo day arrivtd ' ere in diftrtfs the
ship Snl'y, capt. G Iftov, '<T,
Philadelphia, 50 dnys frr-m the bay of Hon ■
duras. The above vessel had got into jhe
Dei iware with a pilot on board, but was
blown cut r'r in he anchor? ; (lie then made
for Cape Hei ry, ard was blown on shore rn <
the Hotfe (hoe; where (he Isy for 13 days. <
Capt. Larcmn, of the Er.glilh ll kp of war 1
Hind, n w ;n Hampton Roads, b injr In- 1
formed of hei fit ujtion, sent down 30 fei (
men, Under the command of the mailer's 1
mate, the carpeiit rof his crew, a pilot 1
and spare a-chor- and cablrs j it not <
been for their tim fy afGllance th. (liip mult e
have gone to l iecrs, as a violent gale froii t
the N. E. came on th.- next day- t
Capt Gelfton cannot withohi the oppor 1
tunity of thus publickly returning lis un- 1
feigned thanks tp Capt. Larcum of the
Hind British (loop of war, for the affilta ce <
lie fnrnifhed him ;he acknowledges the fa t
vonr the more readily, as he had a signal of
distress flying ftven days, and could obtain 1
no fliftance by it. 1
Capt. Gellt >n informs us, that on the 18:h <
©f July a turtling boat arrived at Bell fe ri- <
ver, with information that (lie had ben c a t
ced by a Spaiulh brig whi»h wag pa t of a t
fleet to- filling of 2S fail of veflels, under
convtiy of iw.i frigates, from Mexico fit ed [
out for the purpose of destroying the Britilh r
settlement Oil that river ; this veflel also nad v
accounts <jf their force, which conlille 1 of t
2000 troops under the command of general *
O'Npil, Viceroy of Yucatan ; the ships uri- e
der command of D°n Cofmar. j h
On the arrival of this news an embargo j f
was laid or, all rhe thrpping. AtxnrnireTT
lß'h of Augiitl two Spauiards were tak n
prisoner.-, that had deferttd from fleet at a
Arf'bergreafe -, tbtfe men coufirtnrd the m-ws e
and related there were foqr gan boats, with t;
four 24 popnders each, a fcnooiter m' UKth'g ii
til'hit en fixes and a Hoop with 12 jjMs.Tm- ■l<
meJiate pjcparanoTs were.now.made 10 re- ( a
pel them ; a inoon but. ry was eredled t
under,the infpeclios ps Cobn'e) Barrow, to si
the fojithward of Fort Dundas ; martial law \
was proclaimed, and the negroes caded into
the feryice ; the wuod scows wer- eO"veried n
into gunboats, a fcheoner and four (loops o
were armed, and every preparati n made. I
On the 18th September the firet was dif- 1 {
covered at Key Chapclie ; Capt. Moss, of I
t'te Merlin sloop of war, fern but tviro sloops I v
to St. George's Ktv, which had partial I'l
aflions with them for two days. On the si
23d, in the afternoon, the w ole Spawifh I a
fleet got under way and 8 f the heavielt !f.
vefLis with several launches came down in- C
fide the rerf, with intent to f rce the E - li
glifli from 'heir station, when a very hea.
vy fire from the (loops and scows broke their (
line, and thre.w them f»,t<4 confufioi, fro r. i\
which they never recovered, >ut made off ii
n faft as they could. Capt. G. fays the Eh- tl
glifh bad 250 men ash -re, among whom h
' I were 40 whites. b
- SALEM, December i 3. b
Capt. £j2idiutt, laic master ofabiigff'om t
this port, that was taken :'iid c ndeinn d fc
at Guadaloupe. had the good fortune him
to or - r Ma tinique, and has lince m
returned hnmt'. t |
Capt. 'Jhon H»lman has also retur ed
from captivity at the fnmeifland, Gripped'of fe
' very t alnmtl t » lit\ Hllr f. He came by j
the way of New-York, wliere a fubferiptn f ]
was ra,fed at the effer-honfe, which g.ne
roufly furnilhed him with clothts. w
We are informed that G udaloup; feels a
no inconvenience-.from the J;,w for fufpen ci
<h»g our trade with the French, as th.y
derive a full fnpply ~f ev . ly an ; t | e ,h, s y (
eon itry affords, from'their numei 'us priva pi
•«r.i (exceeding 100 in n«m <«r> and fr ,-m te
Ji anflt trade fn.m Sr. Thomis's little inter- te
ruptedat prefeiu by the British. Six d liars rtl
buy a birrel of flour, an ? oth.r pro- pt
vili .ns were proportion ,bl y ] ow . 11 is re io
P'cieii'ed thai h ilf a dox nof our (hips could In
comp ctclv blockade the ffland, a d a gene
w " 11 '»erprt (fed that this miy take place. Fi
. e brft "tqmry made by person. of Guada- inl
"p- ts, " What is become of our (hips of ha
wa- " We hope the queltion will s oo n be
' r ' "'CTOiily ai fwered, as we are sure onr th
t xec.it,ve does not for4monunt lose fight H
' f the public trttrrift*. fy
Accounts have been receiy: dat the south- W
word rrov, Martinique, that the expediii-
O ' was forming t ere, to be commanded a I
bv Or n Knox, who had la ely arrived trom wi
£'i-J"' d Its dcllii.ation was kept a pro mr
fecret, but was supposed to be a- fio
pin.t Guadaloupe or Surinam. ®f
■ t providing for t*"f remo
; j v.-il of J intrr'iH I'rn Ei'rriti, it has been
1 urged, this such men could not, by the con
| ftitutio i, be *oucb;d without tlv interven
r | tion on a jury "Nearly an w1! (observes
? i the venerable Judge Circling in his charts:?
f|to a Virginian-Or** J Jury) might it be said,
- |in cafe a army was to land on our
i ! ecaft, that we must furjnno > jurita to try
- i the foldieis of that army, before we coii'd
i proceed to abridge them of their liberty."
; %\)t GWtt?.
y
[■ 4-i
PHILADELPHIA,
1 —-
* WEDNESDAY EVFMNG DECEMBER i 6
e PRICES OF STOCKS.
v Pill L\D r. L I'. 1 I . , Dpi P BKK 21
Six Per Cenf. }6*S
Three Per Tent. if
>- B VNK United c tates, 25
Pefcnfylvania, 25 difto
No-th An-erica, jo
lnfuran*e N- A foar;*B - 5: 'i* o
■ . ■ T V'jnfylvr» h * r '+ >
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
On Lo a A \y% 60
at fto diys 57 J
at 90 -by* j?
Amftcrdam, todays, pen guilder, 3 cents
e 7 0r.7 r.
u LEGISLATURE o/PENN3VLVAN T A
1 • ( Continued. J
e
s gfvtt.KM EN,
c Dr. Prinjr e'n Camp Dife; fes, p ;
n edit. lit t«if -rms us t ! at i >H- '.a- t 74-^. j
one general ofpital be'ng open-d ftr<he rc
r ception of t e sick at N wie.l tin fi._k weie
. removed from t 1 eir •tventl oures a ii
carritd down the Rhine 10 ti.at v'ace ;
s where by change of air, th fe wi'.h 'si. hoi
pital Of m ligu "t fever fu m Feckenh im
I were at lirft r liev.d, bin 'he rft who'mix
t t.i with them, c;m o » !ft nfedlion, which
ii the following oiritimHaiiee rxrdered iiil'
more |[t nsr*! and fat.d; For rdtrs co nine
fool a?te, to re nv>- 'b h frntatfoub Gyv
- inn yt Fla de* ,alt e fi.'k wer ; cnb.nk
e din BilanJ rs, a- dc< nv c ycl by water to
e Ghert ; but tli y did "not arrive there tiij
the middle of eeembet. So tli it in this'.
f ediom voyage, the f »'r h ivi g acfluir d'
II new f rce by the co .si' .-rn. Nt .f the air.
mortifica a d ntjier putr d effluvia, it
1 was raile to such an extra.>rdi ary pitch
- of virute ce, that above half the number di
ed by t e way, and several more soon after 1
a their arrival; •
r T»>e rrf-mlil nce of this fe«er to a true
3 pell leHci, was farthr evinced by this re
-1 mai kable i-'cide t: parcel of tents
1 nut on board the fame bilan 'ers with
f the sick. and being to be refitted at Qhgnt,
1 was put i to 'hr ha ds of a tradefmatj, who
- enipl yed 23 journeymen about the wrtrk ;
bin ih fe ulifortu ate men were <]uick)y
) fi-ized with a malignant.' fever, and 17
rrmfm "1 T. •
1 The fame has given an
: ate u i t a malignant tevcr being occasion
; ed by the contagion whicn iffiicc from cer
-1 tain crimin iU, who had bee 1 tang conftrted
;■ in pvilon, hat Were tried at tie Old Bai
- ley in vh y.ar 1750 though they were
i aopaien 1, free from disease themselves, at
I rhe 1i - e they were brought into court.- A
1 , ft liar i- (Unce had betn recorded by lord
' Veitilaui in t e r s ig., or Qn e . 11 Elizabetb
' The experienced Li»d h.,3 recorded »u-
I mrro.is xiimp'es of a similar kind. Arnont
! | Whets hp inuuion* the followi g ;
| 'T; Flora friyjde ttKik on board three
•: Etigliflimen OUL of a Dutch (hip in the
Fj Do 11s, b >iiod to Patavia on board of ,
i ; w ich a contn ioij f ver w.is then pre»aiei t.
I ■ 1 wo of thrle men were apparently in per
■ fe'i health, the ther had a fever refemblin"
1 a quditidian. 1 heft men had been but a
: j f w clays on bo.ird, be ore several of the
■ crew of the Flora were attacked with a ma
lignant conti ued fever "
■ "W en the men from the Cambridge
' ( m the year 1758, one of the. „ot heal' hy
- fl cl ) be<am <' infeded, their
r infection did Sot proceed from any psril.n '
that was sick in the N'eptcue, wl.cre they '
had bt-n i d board ; f r every <,ne that had !
ben fiekn that vefT-l hid been Tent on
mure but r.m the m'eitio 1 whicl. had
been reserved from th m rnd proved in cer
t matic.es in the fitip."—(Popcr on In
lection, p 2-2.)
Ihe fame auih . r afTertS that o n board ,
m (I of the fh ps of war, (in 1 75S & t 7JO) |
the co ia nn was traced either from the ,
ni cess Royal, or other guard ships .
leaf ned landf.neu, recruits received from
J. ' " lf acd P- rft»'r.s, or infrfled (hips '
(I'em. p. 26. 1
Simi.ar tSamples are ecntainad in tile
writings of the ii.genio s Dr. 11!5.ie, and
. ore recently n a work entitled the Medi
cina Nautn a, by Dr. Trotter,
. Dr Lind hi, afo mentioned th t the
\ellow Fever was introduced i to P ,iladel- '
P h ' a ' ' hc y e3r '741, by a trunk of in '
feflcd dm received by a family in Wa
ter ltr.ee trom Barbadoes. And Dr. Lin
ning has afTerted, that every time it had ap- [
pearcd m .harielfon, it had been traced To I
.ome nf.fted person or vefTcl lately arrived
Irom the Wefl Indies.
r M '! chcl ' of V ' r g'n;a informs Dr.
Frankl.n, that it been twice bronght
into V,rgi-ia by En ,lift (h| p , of war , wll 7 ch
had been cri.fi ,g the Amr can seas.
Dr. Monfon ha & pnhlffhvd an account of ,
the ' thow Fevti. which prevailed in New- 1
Haven in 1794, and prov,* by I .1
u; .vT'r " ' m P or ' e d from the L
Weft I'iditfi.
If it wree rot fooerSuon, , n dweH upon I "
a liil led familiar to rverv p-rfon acquaintej i J
w.th medical hi (lory, I might tuition y1 r
moremtlances of malir nn,.t/ ( vers being or ta ' r
fwn.d by contagion rctaincdjin the cloth-r, K : 0
of ftaaaen, tho' r.operfon was knowu .0 ~]
' / /
sick on board at the time such fevers oe : gi
a • Med. But the example! already mention
ed may ftiffice.
That the Tellow Fever"is also contagious
s in the WHi looia idands irtcertain fitttitioi s
4 a;id c rcumnflrtcea, a faft fully eftabliflied j
, hy the examples recorded by fcvtrnl a.«tbors,
r who have had the bft opportunities of mak
f i g «WVr»micin oh the A few of
cl ihcfe I fliall prec;ed tn state for t' e fati» s ac
' tion < f tl.of- who are not i;t p' fTtflion of the
b<w>ks i" which rhev are contained.
The R v. Griffim Hujhs, in his Natural
H story of p. 37, fays, he was
inf<rmtd by Dr. Gamble, a refpeftable phy
~ ftcian in that Island. tha' he remembered to
h ve f eri the Yellow Fever there in the
year 1691, and that it was then called the
n-w Tha' it W:is moll prevalent I
among, and irol' f->t 1 to flra pers, thrush
a grt-at miny f the inhabitants died of it in
he year 1696. arid a preat many at differ
ent peri'xls si ce.— Mr Hugh? also de
' the fvmptoms as they appeared in
Baibadoos in the year 1715.
To John Ward Fenno. j
I saw ysur Gazrtce of Tueiday last, in j
'vhich you inserted your lift of United Irilh
men, and could not help pitying the author
cf the virulent abuse with which it watpre
f.ced.
I then thou.'ht that the malice and ill na
ture which your attack difplaycd, would fuf- !
acivntly defeat- its own intention, in tbj opLn—|
on •f a caudid ptrtilic. 1 b dieve I was not 1
■niiiaken. It only remains for me to hail you !
'-ion t'.e exculpation with which you have j
r, enuoufly favored tl'.efc gentlemen whojn !
v Ai had- foi'tner+y-endeavrrredTo impficute, in
crimes so very enormous—Tn Satuttlay's *ga-i
site y.>u fay, you c ille'd neither John Black I
ior Samuel Parke an United Iriihman. If
ids be true, you called no one in the lift an i
I "Jiiited Iriihman ; for all the perfoni men- i
*' "n'ei, are, in reipeft of charge jirecifcly in j
' >he fame predicament. . 'IV« declaration*, ]
'iwevir to common sense, and i
•He plsftr and literal meaning of lanyuagcj
nrnTUieS an answer to your question of Tuef
ij 1 lay, under the head, ' Lift of United Irifh
t lien,' viz. " Why (lioukl I mention the
15 names of Samuel Wylie, John Black, &c. ?
The answer is evident—becaul'e it would be
a lie : and why ftiould f belch out my ma
' ci' us abuse \ipon innocent characters ? But
' ince .you fay you did.not call these persons
j -United Iriftimen, whose names you inserted
n your lift of United Iriftimen, pray, what
criminal appellation did you give them ? or
vhy did you uiention their names, rather
han, John Ward Fenne, Peter Porcupine,
or his. Hotinefs, the Pope? After you ex
r cept the names of all the gentlemen inserted
n your 1 ft, feeing you fay you did not call
them United Iriftimen, please inform the
■public who these gentlemen are that realjy
s -do compose the black catalogue. Or does
1 your lift cf names consist of no names at all ?
' Are the 40,000 you mention, also of this
J ' description ? After all is the state still in dan
' ger ! What grand discoveries ! Before I leave
V you, Ire que ft you to be as good as your
worir. . You piomifed to naaie tbeni. "Do
I hear Tome one cry, name them ! name them !
3 Lend me yourpatience and-fo I will." Why
are you so dilatory in performing your pro
hiile r Surely their names cannot have efta
-1 ped vc ur vigilance. Surely the public behold
-with sympathy, the mountain in travail, and
: tce ' concerneil -that alntoft eight days are
L-hpfcd and nothing brought, forth.
1 Although lam altogether indifferent whe
ther you believe me to be an United Iriih
man or not, yet to lave you the trouble of
a future blunder on this fubjed, when yOu -
may again fee! dilpofed to reiail* your un
founded calumnies, I solemnly' declare tha.t
' I never was in any Society .of' United tifli- j
men in America, and that I am privy to none
of their deigns. So wiftiingyou more can- \
dor, I am, &9.
SAMUEL WYLIE.
December 13, 1798, j
[So much for Mr. Samuel Wiley, whom '<
I fufpe£t my readers will find much less wily '<
:han he thinks himfclj. Like his profound
compeers, he begins bv inveighing a"ainft
, my virulent abuse of United Irishmen, ra y
• calumnies," my »'malite and ill-natnre •
but while these have ck.fed tlieir juftif.cations
'>y extolling views the imputation of which
:o themselveS they had to esteem ta
lumnious, citizen Wiley contents him with ,
barely expieffing hi« fupreine indi/errnt • to
•hat very (ideal) Charge, Which fie lit Out by
tyling virukntly abedive, ill-natured and
■:aliciot;S.
He foiemnly declirea he never was in any
Society of United Irifhmeti in America.
Why wtre th*fc two last laitcriog words
lugKtd in so la in cly f Tf he was an United
Iriihman in Ireland, and remains a difaffc«a.
Ed liilhman in America, it mult require
more caijor than he cabs for, to believe
:hat he is " privy to none of their dtfn- nr."
I now no longer iietibl him an United
Iriihman. He. is « altogether indiflereiif:
wliether I believe him one or not, and 1
■hiflis. he will find it n-xeiiary to extend his
indifference to the public also; for I verilv J
think, they wih lomehow or other-take uj
the fame odd opinion.
Aniidft all the afte&ed insolence of these
people, I discover tlie mcft abjeft seci —and vt
that kind of fear, too, which is the invaria
ble attendant of g-.ult. What they shguld
heaven knows, as heaven knows that
tt~ey are honest, <tvi:e and virtuous. What
th ey should fear from a government which -
never whirled its impetuous rota over the
body of one innocent man, (but eolctul M:t
tbew Lyon) ; what tre.y should fear under
a go\-eriunent, which would ftuver to flinders
like a Laphrd palace of ice, at the fir ft in
stance of opprriiion on an honest man ; what £
TRtY should fear in a country-where there- oi
of origin, and the temper cf all qt
political i»ftjtu.tit>:n, add>-<2 to an humane 1
eifpi fttion to con ciiler.'.te misfortune when a '
1 not drawn down hy dan'mng villainy, cpe- ''
. rate to form theta als.ift ix.;o a j
o-der —Heaven knows: AND YFT I
THEY LFe'.JL]
i l'jrt P-nn, DecemLw -4, 11
n- MOH4. tISERTY AND C.COjJ. i
Mr. y>: N t;o, j.
us A l'_iv t-avs ago, while the iCartel tip
i:s Neptune hy at the Diamond peer 'at this j
;3 port, 3 tariivr < { this neighborhMxT (a good
■s. went on board of her to deliver ;
k- f°me apples he had'foldto one cf th~ pufTeu
of d'" s ('* Frenchman.) Tie fur*
c . ot hlaek, y llgtv, copper and ol.ve «k lours,
1C iurrounded him, aiid lome, withdrawn knives
aiiil daggers, threatened to put him todc.ith,
a j calling h.m a damn'd Anglo-Anieiican, wb ch
as forced the farmer to tJ:e his chance in the
v . river, and he accordingly jumped overboard,
to : 'nJ was taken up in a boat from the fhoie,
)e <>r he would have drowned.
I<f DITTO,
nt * he night before the laid Cartel fliip failed
irom the port, the brigantine Pomona was
in a ll in a blaze late in the night, as <-
r _ (he lay in a fleet of (hipping at the Lower
peers, along fide oi two Algerine vtflcls, the la
• (1 United States brigantine Sophia, the Reve- at
: nue Cutter, and fcveral other American ar- 13
med veflels, all ready for sea, waiting a wind, **
I wlijch nuift all have blown up, but for the
: exertions of the crew, the tide being out and fj
in ' t '^ e araic d velfels were chiefly. aground. c[
h- a subscribes. ot
w l ''
e . C" is pofitivelv reported that the above
mentioned brigantin; Pomon.i was burned
a, by the cartel. The watch h:»viu -I ft the
f. brig" without a foul on board, fou,r perfotw,
B -_ I were observed by the watch in the veifel next
Tt : l' er > 10 S°> f roni the caitq], oil board tins
>u ! Pomona; two qf \phom went deivtt forv/.ud,-
/e j two -In about an hour the Vt'fljt
W J was completely enveloped in flames, Ourex
iO ' perience of the tfcfeflks of Frenchiiien foi j;d s
.. I ,1S to doubt in a cafe where the proof is ib
k ! dear > anti a ">' °ne mult pa fie Is" a' wonderful
If 1 ftiare of charity, who bjlicjvts they would not
i with equal compcfore, have bum. Jdownthe "
| city, or the continent itklL]
m { A
n,j Easton, fP.J Dec. 13, 1-9 P.
id THE leaders of the democratic fi&ir nin
this diftrift bad calculated upon Mr. Brown* 1
f. our reprefe'ntative in coivy rtfs as a thorough ! £
li- R°' n S purtvman. They flattered the in f lees n
ne that im'medinl(jL' on his taking' his feat in ■
. ? thehoufe, he woulder.lift under the banncis ' ai
x* of the longheaded Genevan, and follow him >''
a- through, thick and thin. But thank God 1' e ,
Lit they are disjointed in tbeir man. Mr. ,f
as Brown has proved by his votes, that he re- B
:tf ally is, what those who him befy a!- p
at ways believed him,tp. be, an honest American
0 r devoted to no party. |
et When our jacobins- found his name Hon
e, orably recorded with those of Messrs. Craik,
x- Goodrich, Harper, &c. they were tbunder
:*d struck. They (liook their heads," looked 11
111 vastly wife, and were puzxled almoA to dif* a
ie traftion to account for such an ur;expected
Jy event, —when at length, one among them
es of more sagacity and penetration than the "
i ? reft, observed with becoming solemnity that
is as Mr. Brow-., a&ed only as the proxy of !<
1- Mr. Sitgreaves, durin- the present feflion, o
,e he was bound by the rules of the house to t
ir vote as Mr. S. would have done. n
•o ' . A. B.
y Mr. JcfFtrfon has arrived in town. _
'* A
In the Petersburgh Inttllip;ncer, of Dec.
J 18, some Negroes of Job k jft&tc/LJtj are "•
d adver.tifed to be fold for payneht of " a coil. ' t o
v fi<kralledebt''due by feid Nicholas. ;hi
~ . Hi
- <sa;me Marine Hifl.
Sa'em, December 18.
* Accounts from Ft. tJbes, by the Way if
■ Savannah and Baltimore, fay, tliEt 3 Sallee
e frigatttliad .been fp»ke with off Lisbon,' ~
who fa id. they were cruifmjr f or Americans, ! 1
Rnflsans, Bremen-mea and .Lubcck-men,
We hear that a 28-gntl flii, owned in i
N. York, and bound thither from St. Croix, j
lately went ashore in good weather on Cape-'
t Cod, owing to mifman'gemeut, and vrfkl 1 T
y and cargo wi re loft.
i —MSBHBE |
yr For Sale, bc '
■ At the late dwelling house of HsXkr Hill,
s esquire, gci
On Wednesday morning-, fln
t (id January,J °
At 10 ocl ck a quant.ty ui clceant anrl va»
luahle
House hold i'lirnrturc,- w
Confiding of
r I ; arge ard fm il) looking jlaffci
Cnrjvtjan<! CLirpr-injf
Chmrs, tophi* and iatijei, <jf ftpeVjdr work- ]
' msnfhip and in the ixwcfl'fltfe -»
1 «Ji:rondolc-. lucres " - aril
A large nT-itmcnt of plate & plaicd ware wl "
a rumlirr nf valn»ble pjintiog< ex:
UeiVaird hcddiiig yy
China nti-i jflafs tvare
Stationary, mirble ilab»,a:iJ 3 variety »f other 1
t artitk'*, ]
FOOTMAN Co.
[ dcce-nber 16 dt3dJ)r
lobe Let) for one or more years, 1
A new Brick Coach-House, d^
Wil, contain two carrifges and a chair, wi'h a *
complete ST*»t.t frr focr to ten
PETER BLIGHT, e
liock-flreet.
December 26 d !ot
Malaga Wine, "T
In quarter Caflts—-for sale by (>£ 1
d«» 6 PhU^Cramc«i^Cc :^
' fcr\
0- All f>erfons iudebted to th 6 Estate
Of JosMH Anthony, fi-n. ««.c- a rrf, are re . f ,e!
V F-yn'-r. : -Anil aJI v W
T wholhave any demanr'i fjjd rflate s
to pro.iureH.em -urfl J Z
cbe fubferiher. for fettlrm7« f ° 1
JOSIAH HE WES, No
JOHN MOKTOV, '
JOSEPH ANTHONY,
| De »°t«s6. J d|f n
- . >•*%.« ♦ .^rvj
. TK'■ awn r? of tht fh : p Niw Jers» .- frisft
;. i Cnt • n cx|)r£l iir a few days part t>( the
Cargo of that rcffcl in town,
p „ " —■corfsisfrm or— ' ' •
Ji A general afTortment of Silks & Sattinl,
tH ' , Ni: k ens, White aod-YtUcw,
Xr Cafi>a.
u- ! China Ware ass rtcd
I; r Bohva
» Souchong TSAS,
Hylori S« n As ~ _ V t
e » Y«ww Hvf"n f* Of «rellc.i» qwley,
;h, Hyf„n, and J Large and Smali p.ckage*
Cli Imperial J
,• F*r 'trm •f otl;:- 1 -lT'P'v at i>id StirMof
$ Nlcir.n l!t G iffith,
Sn'ikld M'CaU,
IV a Read & Co.
George Plv.mltd,
ti fre ~ 6 S
NOTICE.
I 'HE <r.ditc,rs of George J (inflo i, lite r(
er X Queen Am/. ccu-ty, in the Rate of Mary
he land, decea, d, are hcre'iy r qocftM toapv>e»r
at Ch: rili Hi I, in h c>u' ty aid ft teas re
r. fljd, on Thur day tie iifl dy of January
d w i>h their c!ai;»s against th* said deie;fed,
' oro[ e yautletli a e ,'.:t which ti iea pr >p<jr
tlo 'able (iiv floi | if iheofTts in the I a i i of the
i" fubfr ler wil ma It among th •c e i-ors a*,
cor Hy and he who do n >ua;ip«af
on the f.iid day, will be fftrcTer preclude 1 from
thrir claims 0:1 th:
e _ REBECCA JCHNSiON, Execvtrix.
»d Churrh H 'l, De 71.
\k Wheat, Ginf-uig, Bcc.
iw. 4
4000 bi.fliels ps »h te Wheat, of excellent
quality
TS C: 15c? of Gitifnjj 1
. ! 3° Piy sol Ma- eira U'lfrt, th ee years oIA
er 100 BatTcls of Plimt Beef
X- Po-.k 111 half b Is. and barrel,
da For Stile If
ft JOHN SKYRIN,
ul No 96, North Front llrrr t.
ot f* ec ' ® jawiw
hs * __
~ WJLL BE SOLD,
y endue i on the 4th clay January
next; in the everting,
j; wo tracts or pieces of Land
O itb, 7? '" the (late of I'ernjefee, one ot them
3" i O Tylig aixl being iA the (faunty of Sum-
C> n.r, rn the'Hca<!-water< of Fiiniscrerk, contain
in : ing oiie thousand seven hundred and fouttctn
jS [ acres,and theorlier situate is) Hawltins coui.ty.ia
m . thf. famt:fla[»,c'9ntain five thoufaouact c*.
It ! COnditiors of sale will b*. Ca(h,to iic paid on the
• execution of the deed. Inlortrtatior, relative t®
If* the titles, wiay be had or. application ti J.ilhua B.
v- Botid.no —, coru«r of High and Six h llrects,
,t. Phflad Itlbii.
an Shannon &? Polk, auctioneers.
\ december 26 y
n- 1 •
k . "
;r i An-'adjourned meeting of the A«
eji merican Pliiloiophital Society, will be hflj,
if- as their Hall, on Friday n.;xt, at 6 o'clock,
ui P.M.
■m December 26. th.Scf
h e ————- ~—
tat A meeting of the American Phi«
of Fofophical Society, will be held at their Hall
in, ou Friday the 4th day of January next; be r
to tween the hour* of two and five itt the after
noon, for thp annual ekftion of officers.
ADAM SEYBERT, Secretary.
Dec t2 6. f2BD.tu.J.i&fJ 4 .
, c All Perions indebted to the Eftato
r J ef Samuel Coopir, laieofthis city, Phvfi.
11 in, de Jeafed, are r £ q«efted to make payment
"• to the fuMcribers : And those perfo s, w/,o
, have any demands againfl the said Kfhte, are
Clefi-ed to br.ng in their accounts for settlementf ettle
ment to
SAMUEL COATES,
♦ . TH )MAS MOUKrs, (
MORD3(JAI LEWIS, 0 r r^* e ctito r «
3. ' IaUSTON PEt<OT. J
,f oftbe Will of ,he fa,d Samuel Cr.oper.
;e Phi.a. t* mo. a 6-, i 7S S. eogt F
s. : Hats fc? Hoiiery.
n WILLIAM M'I>OUGAIL
c ' I AT his store, j *
1 No ' '34-. Market STREET,
H Jt'ST Ut'ENED, ar4v!irion to hi, for-
AJ. nier stock, a y.ry alTortment of
Men., Woi.en., iq d ChU ren', Hits, and all
ot Stockings particularly a quantity of A
berd e. n knit Hot;, suitable for the pr«fent season
nov, 23
l ' ,n to «h« above, be has mil r.cc'ved 3
gCDeial alTortnu nt of Fleecy f u h as
Ilnckings, »,ght e.ip. f traxellme ditto, brecchei
pieces, undfr waistcoats, Ihirts, &c.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday t
the Ith cf January next, and cen
tinue until fmifoed.
1 1 C \am» C Dollars each, at
n WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lotuir
and Brokers office, Mo. 64 South Second-lireeu
Txam- C , ?"r 3 f kl P t f or regiflering ,„d
examination of I ickets m the above, City of
V\ afhington and Patterfun ies, &c.
bTAT* or THE WMf.»L.
r One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,00 a
l ive " 4 CJI
Two 2o ' oo<>
'l «O ' - " , oc-J ; . 4,000
- Ten a '° o ®
Twetuy-lrreo zpo .-*"*• *' C °*
' j Vl 1 - h ', a P ro P ort;aTl of th& one limbed
and of the fifty,dollar pr.jek—The Lottery „
th'M two rl.ird. ,W„ Vhi above i SIOOO
dollar, richer-thair at t!ie Corrtmfili (ment
1 Note, the bufl«d& a broker duly «
tended to m all us braHchts. tu f
ouv. 9-
Notice is hereby Given,
' I 'H AT applicttion will be made Jt the Trea
nt A (U ' hC e d S ' ate ' ,he
of wie following of Six pe r Cents,
UHf r r the n,me of Robfrt
mi/on of Calcutta m Bengal, Surgeon in the
. ei vice of 1 it« honorable United Company of
, "lerehants of Eni;!ind trading to the Eaft-In
. , 5, d ! wei e 'oft ffnm on Ijoard the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kiddj'frorti Falirooth to New
v° , „ Moll,. Cu.
| o
i??j, "ne ctrtiF.cate for j... ~
No 'lVgr. office t 7 th Dee. 33
one certificate for Ja
Ellijion tsf j'ebn I'erot.
noT x 3 C.a6vrImported
IN THE L/iSr ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common clotas
Swandowns
Baize>
Velvetta -
Velverctts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
tefuiTeU and Persia caipctts
Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by ~
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. >4j Arch street.
nor. 16 StJanr J
" FOR SALE,
at nc 9, South Water-Street,
liifh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
adorttrd, in whole and half boxe*
Checks in ditto
Drogheda*% a- d Brown 7*B beetled Lincfls .
Irish Hackled Flat
Seott- I hrvad
Men and Womens Combi
Rullij Duck, of an excellent quality, and
100 hhds. Aux Cayes Molafle3<
By ISA iC H.IRFEY, junr.
Ht 1 . mo. 17 **4W j.
liank of North Ameriea.
THE S«o kholtfcm are hertl y notified, that an
tleiSior for twelve iJir for ihc enfu ng .J
year, wil !>a 'ell at the Batk on Monday, the
tith 1 f Jai.ttary D -*t, a' ten o'clock.
R CHARD WELLS, Caft'r.
n.-e. t. r-oS. dtEl
AN Y French Ladies and Gentle- i
ft*#n w«H|Uiig"i»a<i»ge ivir hrance cm\ obfaif y 1
a »t New-Y rk. by applying to Messrs I
GaHn .t: Mumfuid in that . ity.
Dec. 18.
Ces Dantes oo Mcffieurs >"ranc»is qui vrulent
j,iff t «n pra ice, pcuvent dtre aceomodfc, fur ua
1> at indent part nt de N. Y oik, en s addreffant chez
M. M. C.ahn and Mutjiford, dan cctte ville.
D c. 18. 3'
NOTICE,
ALL P«rfo*s indebted to the Eftae of Wrl
liam Beauchnnp, lately tlecealcd, art de
sired to make-immediate pavwie-nt and tliofe who
have any cLiltrs against said Kilate to produce
th«ir accounts properly attefled to
Sam 1 . Price t executor.
nov
ton SALE, '
By the Subfcrtber,
Belfaft Canvals, No. I, to 7,
On moderate term# ftvr Cash or a short credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh jirert, near Cbefiiut.
nov 16 4
FOR SALE,
Tp be r.XCHANOhiJ for property within thirty
mi es ot the c ty.or tqjet on ground-rent lorever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle.ntj. 147, Chcfnut- J?
street. "
FOR SALE,
By the Sub/cribers f
100 Bolts Ruflia Duck, 1
jo pipe.London pellicular bilt MadcirtWine
1 pair nine pound Cannon P
A few ftjlts Madras Handkerchiefs
40co.bs Fine FU>ta Indigo .'
aj barrels Beef.
Willings & Francis:
Penn-nreet, )
tftove*pbtr t8 >
Ati; FtRsONS having any legal e.eina .d< &-
od ;he estate of IViHiam PpMffed,
of the city of l-hilatielwfcia, 1 avern kee er, are '
t> lurnifh th-ir accounts properly au- t
the.Jticacert and H persons indebted to fui-i estate 1
arr r.»qucftcd to make paymctv to the fubfcnbtir in
ia.
LEVI HOL T INGSWORTH Adaiinr.
Odobcr jiW , ( -
f—'
Wants a Place,
A WOM A N with a pood Br aft of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
D*. 10.
TEN DOLLARS REWA • D
DESER lEU la.lt night, a fuconel time from
the Marine Camp, David Lifer. fife-.
He had when he went away, a pun lni jaikuand
vest.light blueoveralls, a tcun.! hat which hfld iie\n
buund with yellow, and which he had ripped ofl
in hi» lit ft deftrtion, and a pair of new Iboei. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
C-Uow complexion and a nirch in hi< upper up
Hii back is ft'll fore from a flogging he got a few
days ago He may ba difcovcred by his fileing,
a* he plays extremely well.
W, W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
OSoher 17. Marine Corps.
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lying ih Gloucester County,
Slate of btav Jersey,
TWENTY-FOUR acrea ot whicbaie
Wuodland, the reft, Meadow. This
land lies about half a mile from I iaiber-Creek,
xnd two mites from the river Delaware, the
eounty road pafiing through it, and the great
road onlv two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, ' PATRICK UOGREKTY.
Sign of tbe Rainbow, in Shipptv,
between SecunJand ThirdJlrttti.
dec 4 f "nh&'iw
ALL PERSONS
Indebted to tha Estate of Mr. John FiNNo.late
of Philadelphia, deceased, are desired to make pay.
;uent.and ilioie having any demaadt, to prtfest
ibtiivfcr fetU«i*«nt, to
SAM I'EL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the admioiftratiua.
no». Jo
NOTICE.
A LL persons indebted lo the Estate of Sam
uil VV alli s, elq. of Mnrcey towoDiip,
in the county rtf Lycoming, lately detctfed, art
hereby reqiwred to come forward immediately j
and pav their refpeOiv»deb:s.—And all persons
having legal deminds against the Estate, are
requetL-d lo prodmt their accounts, properly
authenticated, for ftttTemtnu
JOHN WAM-IS, ") j
WILLIAM ELLIS, f AHminiftra-
DANIEI. SMITH, C tora.
JOHN ADt.L'M, J
deceinber 13 jt**4w
I
THl' CARGO,
Or the Ship INDIA,
Captain Aihueao, from BAIAVIA, J
Consiiting t-f
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fiift Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECrtI LEWIS.
d,-e n
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRtBKKS,
14 four pound Cannon, ciffcrctjt lengths,
f Carronadea.
JOHN NIXON & CO. .
December I. $ (
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No, 9a, Market-street, .
near Third-Street.
df 1 ■ f -
LARLbICL StCKELy
No. 155, Market-Street,
Pirft quality London Particular » VWNES.
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Ltfton >
Cogniac Brandy, ill to 4th proof.
Sprit«.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-callc or QaUoa.
dec 3 mw&faw
Now Landing,
From on board the fliip John Bilfkeley, and
for We at the (lores of Jcffe 6c Robert
Wain,
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the ftrft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
iu canniftera.
Nov. 1 \
| ~ BALL AS I.
A QUANTITY 10 be dUpo'ed of, if applied for
immediately, on bond the ?hip Loutfa, Ivlog
M». HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard,
noye-nber 10. ?
Imported,
In the Ships Aflive and Liberty,
Jrom HiMBVRGH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillw
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Rufiia Sheetings
German Liadfeys,
Bed Ticks, hft.
For Salt iy
GEORGE FENNOCJC.
no. lOJ Market-street.
nov 10 , $
bHULMAKLk. iS B£RKETi',
H AVF RtMO Vf* O THEIK
INSURANCE office
to No. g, south Front street.
.jf.
Their room at the Coffee-houfe will eomtthue to
he attended froei it till l o'clocV in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Hu also removed hi* Counting houfc to the
fame place, where he hat for sale a few pipes choice
1 -ondon Paaticular Madeira W ; French and
Spanifl) Brandy 5 Claret in calks and cnft». of su
perior quaKtr. and a few Packages Olaf» »"d
Qv cuVwarr; also, a quantity of Carolina Soat
leathcv, which will be fold very low to clofc the
Ctiu.
Philadelphia. I* nfo.ia, 1798.
THI PARTNERSHIP OF
Alexr. J. Miller, Co.
BEING difr'lved on the firll inflant, by the
death of Janjcre Davis, all pcrfonß indebted
:o rhe fame art requested to fettle with tbe sub
scriber, and tliofeto whom th-y are indebted are
requeH«d 10 call on him for payment.
1 ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front street.
Who has on hand, j
to St BISf(HFB 01 ON LOW TEE MS,
By tbe Package or Ptrte.
Fine plain and tamboured Muflinj
Guzzennai
Bat'tas
Coflaes
Rabobgungies
India CaMicoea
E Book Mufl ns
"j Colour d d'tto
Real & Mock Madras Sc. pullicat hkfi.
Brown Silefias
ls Tickings, tflc. &c.
r
> JUST ARRIVED,
* AH ASSORTMENT or
Irish Linens Ss* Ruflia Sheetings.
Ie nov 18 4
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, understands
account, andean be w»llrecommendec,
wants a Sitnation as Clerk or Afliftant in a
Whole sale Store, or Coiiuting-houfe. Appli
cation to be made it this Office,
e nov 14 <S
" To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
(e * pi.EASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we have .p.
lt X plied to the judgesol the Couit of Com i
. Hew, tor the benefit ol an id of assembly, pass <1 the
'Y fourth diy o( April lad; and they have a;.p..tnieu
THURSDAY the 87th inft. to hear us and cur Cre
ditors. in 'he city of Philadelphia, at f»ch place
wheie the Court may b« held, ana wncre you may
attend il vou pi cafe.
- PATRICK CAVANAUCH,
JAMES DOUGHERIY,
PETER C ROSE,
r JOHN CRFFNr,,
i, LEWIS D GR'iFF,
JAMES
RICHARD STOKRS
t TT~b I? r,'
IN OM of tbe flreets between Union and Saf
ftfris, on the jth innant, the outlide Case
"" of an F<"elifh G' Id Watch, chafed on thehaek
with a (hie d Any person who may find the
fame, and will bring to this office, will receive
P» Four Dollars re wir d, and the übanks of the
'* owner.
'y dee. 7.
til ■ ■ ■
ire All Persons
ly Ind.Strd to the bftate of Ht-.NK Y HILL. deceaXed
»rr reqoeOcd to m ke payment to the fubfcrihcr ;
and thole having toy dctn inds on the fatne to pto
1- dttcctheir accaan:- for fttt'.etntnt.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no. ij9, Market Ilrcet
PUiladelpkia, dec. 4, j >9B cots
I M P O i\ T F. D
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Haribiirz f 'id Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT US!OKA?.U r«ICMJIPU« a ll»l»AL
c K *Ol "I » » v
WATT V KINTZISC,
N0.93. North Water ftrcet.
215 bales Sc boxes Ticklenburghs,
, hempen linens and oanabriga frutn ifs to
if per ell
70 dc>. bleached and brown heflians
- 40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. ltrong do. do. for cotton do
> 30 cherts platUias 1 do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
.30 do. ereas ala MoJtlaix 4 do. fail-twine
12 do. ellopailk's I do. watches
IJ do. BiilefielJ liivo 14 pipes Port wine r
93 do. patterbomes 91 cafe.-, claret
45 do Britranias IjP do fin£ long corked
>■ I do. Holland canvass cl-aret
I d#. RulVw do. 1 bttflii'ls fine fait
3 do. RutUa (hretings 40 calkwofrull brimstone
1 do. ravens duek 100 caiks of naval stores.
j do. Ruflia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany
I do. brown holland 4 hbds. coffee mills
a do. Silesia rouans 0 bundles German Heel
' I dfc.Wahretidrop linen 10 chelts of states and
[J ' 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
, ! 1 do. Flemifli linens \ package of states
j x do. cambricks and V do. woolen cups, &c.
liwns 4 chelts of Nurenberg
1 do diaper toys
II do. [tripes 40 kegs of yellow ochre
| tS do. cltecks $ hlids. Glue
J * do. lianiois S barrel, of Lentilies
; I do Arabia tVipe S chert* of ptime red
I da. bu tiug for color crull Holland cheefd
~ i packa. Madras hand- to kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs- 'JO Iwses of capey
" 1 du. Turkey yarn 430 fides of upper and
® 6 l)3les empty bags loal leather
I chest kairtibhaoA ioo boxes window gjafs
_ j boxes tape>,alfort«d soo Demijohns
1 rl» bobiiin, iflorted vO boxes glifs tumblers
I !*os threads & tapes alTorted
I do. fi"e blue litlados a hhds. pumice stone
5 chelis men's flippers 1 box of mill laws
"3 do bed ticks I caflt of cutlery
1 casts hog'» bridles \ quantity ol ttone jugs
6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A f«w (kips anchors, &c.
uovemker 11
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AKO IS KEMOVIHC Fltia NO. 8, CH ESN UT,
To tbe Five Story BniJding, in Dock
near Tbird-fireet.
Where he has for Sale
2jo Bales of Bengal Goods j
CONSISTINP or
CaAaes
Bafus
M»moodiet
Humhumt
Calirow
Handkerchiefs, 13c. c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
o ConhJTtng tif Woolens only,
d AMONGST THEM SSI,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets /
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
■ igo Hhds. of Old RtMn,. 'v ;
Of a fine ftavor, 3d CT proof.
nov 10 - -
ic ■ ■ ■ ——
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVeJI Schuylkill, viz.
Oflobcr 19.
J 1 ! EORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
, c vJ feet 6 inches in height, dark hair ind
complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, speak*
r£ broken Erglifh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
Ncrvemier 6. John Murphy, 47 years of
age, 5 feet 7 $ inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
_ Dub.in, by trade a Hozicr.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frelb complexion,
born ih New-England t state of Connecticut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Hlackfmi'.h.
November 7. William Collins, 30 yea is of
age, j feet 6 inches high, fa'ndy hair, frefh com
plexion, greyeyet, l»orn in Ireland, county ol
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked foi
foroe time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
AU the above deserters are very much addiil
ed to liquor, and will rake other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had 011, when they went away,
hftir regimental Wfi soever appre
hend* said defertrrs, (hall receive fortv dollars
reward, or teu'doilars for rat h, w.it|i all reason-
S. able expe"c-s, by applvine to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
~~ id regiment tf Infantry commanding.
n"v 10 Jj
£ Charles Campbell,
WATCH-MAKER.
HAS removed to the op formerly occupied
by Mr. John Wood, No. c 5, corner of
_ Frost and Chcuiut-iireets ; where he willthank
•j. fully rece'v« and execute orders with neatness
and dispatch
„ «* HAS CONST 4N riv OH HAND,
ihe A Neat and Large Aflortmcnt of
™ Clocks y Watches.
»cc '
M y * WANT E D,
A JOURNETMAN s
> ALSO, ace or two Apprenticed of refpefla
ble parent*.
FOP. SALE,
A large quantity of Watch Glasses
H'Mefalc and Retail.
n " v s awV
as. Bank of tbe United States.
November 14, 170 S.
„k NOTiqS IS NEfi£m GIVEN,
the -"THAT application will be marie at the Trea
ive X fury of the United Slates for the renewal
the aCertihcate of Six perCent Funded Debt,
No. 15,548. for iB,;Ba dollars, 33 cents, dated
Kegifler's Office, January &th, 1798, ifTued in
the names of Hill,am H'illink, Jan tt'ilimk,
Micbolaj (jf Jacob Van Stapbarjl iff Hubbard,
fed rrufters for sundry ni' ney lenders in Amfler
tr ; elam; wnith was forwarded the nth of Janua
-1,0 r y, 17<>*. under cover to Nicholas Obbes esq.
and U.IV Hv the eaptote of the Ibip Columbus,
r<t . 04 P"" 1 Skinner/rom New-York for Am Aerdam
J G- Sienffui, ca/b'r.
»< «w6w
George Davis's
LAW-BOOK S TORE,
No. 319 Htcit S: REIT.
Latest London fc? Irish Editions.
G SURGE DAVIS's Fall importation is now
arranged of whith 1 mote capital collec
tion he Relieves was never offered for file either
:n this CiiT> London or Dublin It combines
almo.'l every book in, with fcveral valuable book- 1
out qf print. Davis's confining l.imfnlr to the
l'ale of Law-li.it.ks only, it will appear obvious
to firofeffional Gentlemen, the advantsges they
have both ill feletftion and price Uy purchasing
from him.
His Catalognes bitng ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling for tl em
and to thole reliding at a dilhnce, by fovoring
lilm with their address (poll-paid) tlrtfy fhalj be
sent.
xov s6 m&rhim
advertisement.; r
Todd & Tvlott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
affivjned over their effects, real, personal, and
mixed, to the fubferibers for the benefit of all
their Creditors-
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all persons who are indebted to the said
elfate, \hat they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir relpeflirc accounts to
e thcr of the alEgnees, or to William MoTT,thei
agent duly authorized ; in failure whereot, legal
mealurea will be taken for the recovery cffuch
debts as are rot olf:hai ged without delay.
John Waddingtan "1
John Rhodes > Aflignecs.
John Allen. 3
nov. 16 lu.ih&fatFt
To be Soid,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the Citv. or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tulcorora Valley, MifHin county,
ab»ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At prel'eju there U about 50 acres
1 cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadjw
Ground, enriched b/a never failing dream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of
a Country Mill. For further inforniation apply at
No. 68, Market flreet.
novcmSer to taw
NOTICE.
'pHE Stock-holders of the Company encorporat
*• ed for treeing a Permanent Srnige over the
Rivsr A'eliuylMll, are rcqucHed to attend (heir
annual meeting on the firlt Monday in January
next (being the 7th day of that month) at th« City
Hall, at ten o'clock in the lorenoou, for the pur-
Jose of choosing a PrcGd«nt, twelve Dir«&urs and
Treasurer of the f»id Company far the tn£uing
year, as by law is ditailed,
JOHNDORSEV, £ec'y,pro
dec 17 1 3»wt7jy
~A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.'
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, off>hiladdphia, who has
for a few years pall been in the fouihetn States,
has had the effrontery to drew fereral Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myietf.and by that means k:.sdclraud»d
a number of persons of tluir money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public charailcis and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of laid
Shaeffer ; to one *>f th-.fe paj-crs I find my name
fuhferihid, but I do not know the man j these are
villainous torgtries! To prevent further imposition,
1 -have to roquelllbe 1 rinttri nf N<-t r T ' rT
Ulilted Staves to publilli this for the benefit of their
fellow-sit.aens. S.WIUEL MEREDITH,
Trtafmsr lb: UnitcJ Statu.
Trent,*, N<iv - Jtrfey,"}
OSolcr 14, 1798. J
NEW HOTELS, PLATS,
MAGAZINES, tfc.
Chalk's Circulating Library.
c Nt. 7J, North Thirdflreet.
1 '"TMIE Proprietor, in compliance with hit pro
h X mifes to rei>der this Inllitutiou 'a complete
1 source of rational amusement and inltru&ion, by
repeated acquititions of entertaining and interek
• ing publications, hai maw added to hie former
. Foui Hundred Volumes of mifcctlz
» oeous works, comprising nearly all the latejl
publiji.ed Novels and Dramatic produSions
'■ catalouges of which are ready for delivery to
lublcribers.
1 N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still re
' t'in Books taken from the Library previous to
3 the licknefs, are rebelled to return them imme
diately : the lines will becharged from the 14th
of Noveinl>er.
1 For sale,
' Fine ft ivored Imperial, Young llyfon, Hvfon,
" Hyfoti Skirt, and Souchong TEAS.'
rc - 1 3- tlnnftw
V aluable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called
SHREWSUURR. FARM, formerly the refidehce
ol General John Cadwaladar, fituu* on Saffifras
River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
d bout 1900 acres of prime LaWD upwards of
( ot which are in wuoHs. The Buildings are all et
celhnt, andcoi.fiil 1 f a handsome Dwelling Houl'e,
■ t two li'ge Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fiity'
horses, a tread iij floor under cover, a gra
nary, two )verfetr'» houtes, two ranges of two 11#-
ry buildings for Negroes («ne of them new and of
brick), Com hcufi» a bmoak toufc, &e. &c The
whole Eflat; being nearly fur rounded by water, it
ri quires but itile f«uciug, and has a good shad a'nd
Bciriug tilbe.-y. It is cuuvenieotly (ituated for
both Philadelphia and Baltimore mai kets.with
two landing* on a navigable riTei'lut a Ihort fail
from Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two
large Apple Orchards on the preinif« ; also, a varie
ty of excellent fruits ot different kim's The foil is
mostly a rich lowi-.—The w(,ole wJI be fold togc-
S therrrdivided intofmaller larirs(lorwhiehthe buil
dings are conv, nicutly fitua-.ed; as may suit tbe pu; .
haler. The Mock on said Fjrm,eoßiiiti*g o f Hor
- eles, Cattle. Sheep Sic. wiU also be dilpolcd cf._
For further parutnlarSApply to (Jtoact tlAsflNCs
on the prcmifes.or to the lubfcriber, in Puiladel phia
ARCHIBALD M-CAU-, Jn«
D '«»bem. m.tf.
>1 Notice,
d Persons indebted to the Es
tate of is*AC liliAts, tfq deeealed, a«e rtouell.
Ed 10 make immediate paMnem, thoie I**?.,, a-
V "J dcml dsa<a,nft Ud Ellate will pleale to lurmlh
• lhtll accounts duly aiieftest lor fenlement 10
r " ORCt i)AV IS,
Attortity in Htt to
!• JOHN M'KIM, jr. Ad'mV.
s, * J3' !»iw
REMOVED to 157 South
I 1 sw
Tftrs D.fr PUBUSHED
Br WILLIE M YOUNG
Comer of Chefnut nd Second-Greets.
JOAN OF ARC,
As Epic Poem,- ,
By Robert ; -,ujtb oof „ »
" WE do not hcptate to dec are oir onim
that ,h ; poetical M yhycA , n jt
very luperior k.rd-Conceetion, more ,
daring, fent.menf, mo re commanding and |T„
P ..agc more energetic will no t e*fil» He t oan< t '
nor docsfcarcely , R y part of it fink into
\Tholo. The language is, f or the molt pan mo
delled Ovi that of Milton ; and not
hasaltrong rcWh of Shakespeare."
Monthly Keviru, vol 19, f, -J si
A K I STO RT,
Olf ANECBOTKS OF THE
REt'O LUTION m RUSSI A, \
IN THE" TEAR 1762.- ' *
Translated from the French of M. de R ulhiere ■
With an elegant Mead of the la-e Empress. '
ft Phe second editfon, price 7 j cenis,]
" rhe gr undsof M. de Rulhiere k s in-o'rrfution
seem in Imputable, and his readers appear to have
every reason to fe fati-fied with his discernment'
in unfolding the motives and circumflarces that'
concurred in bringing about ihis drilling event.
«' We lhall only add, that we ha Ts seldom met'
with mere intctefling anginal anecdotes, than
those that are contained in the little work which
we liave now reviewed."
Jlppondixto Montily Hrvino, vol. 11
'9 Wf&ru'.m
An excellent Horse y Chair,
TO be fold on reaf arable terms at the Liver*
Stable, No. 28 North Third- Mrcct, *
N. B. Tie Horle belonged to a gentlemen W '
one ol the Troops ui this City.
< ® e< ' 1 ' Jawiw
t ALL PERSONS,
HAVING claim* again 11 the Fjtat£ Ot
WAN* AH LOCK K: R, deteafJ, ut
requeued t prelent their refw<nive accounts to
N.iTHANA. SMITH,-)
OK I
JOHN DORSET, ] g
00v 9 ;aw6» |
DISTRICT Oh PENNSYLVANIA, IU Wlls
EE IT I!E.ME.\WZRLrSy ~T- ~
7l i on th e twelfth day
ttic Independence®! the United of
America, Benjamin Smith Ba-rton.ef the laid dif.
trid, hath deposited in this office the title of 1 *
bool the right whereof ke claims u tuthor in the
worut following to wit :
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribes ind
" Nations of America—By venjamia Smith Bar
'• ton, M. D.Corrnlpondrnt Member of rbe Socio.
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member »f
" dir. American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
•' Bo lion, Correfpond>dg Member of the Malfa
" ohtifetts Biftcrical Society, and Piol'effor of
" Materia Mttdica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univer'.ty of Penofylvania "
Jn conformity to the i& of the Congreft of the
United States, intitlcd " Anailfortht encourage
ment of Icaruiug by Securing the copies of maps,
charts,and l.«i>ks, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timesther-in mentiontd.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELL,C.erk, Dift.of Penn'
NovembeT i, 1798.
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
Now landing Iromon board tlie (hip INIMA,
at Mr. Tlun. fenrofp's Whuf, «nd forftle bf I
Jv/jti Aibmead,
No. 165, South ft' Dt-Street.
WHO HAS Qy HAND,
For Sale, on r'eafonabis urmt|
Cofliti £ [ ~ I
BatVai
liJack Taffaties, fee.
dec tc todtf
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortillcd, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete— 4, 0 and 9
pounders.
C»rrooadcs, Woolwish proof, with carriagej, &C.
complete— 11, 18 and 54 pounders.
Cannon powder in keg» of lbs. each
Round, double headed, and canuilUr Ihot
I'ttent fhcail.ing copper, bright, aflbrtcd 18. je,
21, >4, 16 and »8 or per foot, fteets 4#
by 14 inches, fuitablc for VelTcls Worn ice to
jcoo tons
Copper nails, bolts apd spikes
Boarding Wits.
Common cutlafles
Gunnefs stores of afl kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross
I'attnt ftiot ill calks of scwt. each
London porter and'•rown llout.in casts of 7 do*.
bottled.
E*rthcn ware in c. Jtes, affortcd
Far Salt ly
Sl.\:ON walker,
Pine nor 5 th ftrect.
Prober it). eotf.
Injur ance Company of North America.
, <
THE STOCK HOLDERS, »
are hereby infurmitl, thai a tl«)ed mrrtmg
of the Company will be held at their Oftce
on the Bth of January n xt, (being th* fr
cond Tuesday in the Mohtli) fur the elec.
tion of twenty five DireA.rs ior tbe enfu»
" ISyfa '' ' E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12 h. -
T ' " '
An Apprentice Wanted.
A TOUTH,
Of Reputable Conned. n», & f-ficieot
is wanitxi as an Apprentice to the
tary Putfhc i.M Convtyanccr— E«qu*rc of the friß*
ter. f
ttoc.
FOR HAL E, ,
No. 7, Sour# hoonTß-Si *«* 'i
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A Aox of Silki
Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of
A pared very fine Caflia.
r ' c H.-UCHT.
dec , 3»* 2W .
»1 1 1 > 1
For Sale,
A \well improved Plantation,
Of one hundred and twenty acaJ ' ,
VIiRY beautifully fitaated in the < ° U, " T "
Montgomery, about twenty
city —1 he j* »rt »H
IS to acco- modate a genteel family 'J 1 "/ " " .
further i formatioo, coquirc at the Hcnikfy
C'oat-of- Arms, nineteen m.U» rr«» town,
three above Morrit-l»wa.
Jec«r.'j<r Ij