of tfjc §1111!f 0, and Philadelpbia Daily Advertiser.
. NOM3£JI 1703. J
FOR SALE,
The Schooner
THREE SISTERS,
V-v Burthen 85 tons, two years old
—' built of the bert materials, and now
*cady to receive » cargo. Said vessel may be view
-94 at Mr. Stmuf 1 Brewer's wharf, Kcnftngton*
For terms, apply 10
Gurney Smith.
February Is. 5
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATI FOR SALE,
5B hhis. of Jamaica Run
Madeira Wine in pipes aadhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hh iR.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef chefta
Sail CanVass, No. r, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable fw t-he Weft-India market
Na3)s assorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow »chre dry intrafks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expected round
as soon as the navigation If «pcn,
Fiue Liverpool Salt
Goals
Rpinilh Brown "1
Venetian Red j
Purple Brown i _ , IKt ™
Pateru White . I> PAINTS
White Lead I
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
16© bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
F®r Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin flc Co.
U now ofcan?ed to
NTCKLIN fcf GRIFFITH.
January i. eodt'f
For Savannah,
—" The jajl failing S hip
SWIFr PACKET,
Patrick Gri bben, majler,
_ WILL fail on the ioth itift.
(ice permitting) has handsome accommodations
tor paflengers. For freight or palTage apply to
the master on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Mark«t-ftreet, or
M J. Frszier,
N®. 95, South Front-flreef.
February j. j
For Amlierdam, c
The Sh ip t
FARMER, [
te'SslV John M'Collom, Master j ■ ■
fail in a few days, the ,j
" £^l part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
pjfiage, apply to the master on board, at \Val- -
uut-Hreet Wharf, or tn
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from b
Bourdeaux, and for sale, ti
Claret in hhds. u
White Wine VP quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior qiwlifry
fontiniac,")
Santerne, > Wines in C3fw _
Lunille, j
Prunes in boxes
Novcmbe 14.
for Sale or Charter,
7 he Snow p.
,§§l GOOD HOPE
Will carry about 1100 barrels, and g
i«r«ady tetake in a cargo. For terms t ;i
•PP-'y «• ra
Pragers Ssf Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Supar ot
and Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
Kovemher 7. dtf 0
Flax Seed tor sale.
Apply to _
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street.
January 17 §
Twenty Dollars Reward, I
FOR taking up a runaway servant named ter
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey a c
Smith, and fending North Front-flreet, No.
45. is of a chunky make , and very dark
complexion, with round features, and black bushy V(
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow- f nr
era, as Ihe in {uppofed to be fccrrted in houses %f Q f
fame, though no more than fifteen years of age. ver
/ebruary 19. eoiw p a |
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
——— to
THE citizens of the United States are hereby | ate
informed, that the mmufa«sture of Window I ' nt<
Glass is now Commenced at the Glass House 111 a, ' c
Bollon. ' ,nai
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent '
quality of the Boft'-n Glass, as It is so well known ,n *
throughout the United State? to be in every rcf
peA greatly superior to aay ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and c d
may be constantly had .by applying to Charles F. 0 »c
Kufiftr % at theGlal" House. m3>
Orders fr« m the distant State? to be to mcc
Mr. Samuel Gere, .Court-street, Bcfton. in g
Cr, Two or three Glass makers are want- I tern
«d at the above works ; such as can produce re- ph»a
commendations for good behavior, may be lure of €
employ, by application to Mr. George L, Lindt, it t ' lc F
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method cc
t>f r«alting Crown Window Gbfs, they will meet
with the'fame eneouragement.
Boflon, January 16 1 aaw6w Froi
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM M just arrivtd from England, wants a p .
place as a Nurfeor attendant on thefick, either on a
-Ccntleman o**Lady.—For futther informa ion anpiy
at. N-o. io y ftouvh Fourth street, qear Maihc ftrcet.
lebi 6' fft Kg
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 23, 1798
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February nxxc, will be expofeU to Public Sale,
at the Merchants* Coffee-houfe is Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
I No. 1. A two story brick Houle, with 1 two
j story frame Building®, mi a lot to feet front wid
• cel deep ; affo, a vacant Lot of 40 feet iquare,
with the privilege cf an allr-y to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let lor *OO dollars per an
- num, and is firuated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second streets, the fecoad .house from
Mr Caleb Aih's
No a. A three story brick Honfe, situate at
the north «aft corner of Ohtfnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 f«et on Chefnut
efts ftre-t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
rent of 4QO dollars, and is deemed one of
ka- ( he heft stands for the sal« of dry goods in this city.
No. j. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick Houfi-, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreot, between Market and Arch
ftrcets, No. 40. This orfe is built and finiflied
in the modern style, is in cowplcte repair, with
1 double cellars under the wfeole. Thei eis a cittern
of rain water in the yard ; an<i the house is at prs
md ftrt let for 600 doilar* p«r annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, {ituate in
Pbimb-ftreet, between Second and Third street,
being 20 feet froV.t and 130 feet deep, at present
occupvrdby Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick on ehebank
fide of Front-street, No. 17r North, going thro*
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is %o,
feet. front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan 12, 1798. jaw
.£>" On account of the present bad weather, the
above sale i« poflponed until Thursday evening, the
firftjiay of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
JUST arrivedT
In the Ship Mar, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit WelT India market
0 40 bogflieads Whiting
bufhels good House Coals
ALSO JUST X. 4NDE9,
4ro barrels prime Beef, Boston aind Now-York
50 bairels Pork
150 hhds. Havafcna Molafles
Woolen Cloths I
Blaukete f afforded in packages
Hard Ware )
' Ravens Duck '
Window Glass in boxes, Bri.'ifh, of various fizss
*> Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groce each !
I- A general alfortment of Queens* Ware, in crates t
is Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cases
0 Baiket fiue Salt, in hogsheads
e FOR SALE BY
Thou isf John Ketland.
February is jtIM -
The Subscriber !
INFORMS thofi whom it may interest or eon- *
cern, thac ths Judg?s of the Court of Common c
Pleas have appointed Afonday, the ixuentyjixth day of 1
February next, t» hear him and his Creditors, at the c
Court-house in this city, on the fubjeft of his pcti- 3
'tion for the benefit of the Ufolvent Law and *
' that their attendance is deOred. r
JAMES GREEMLEAF. J
PbilaJeipbi *, Jan. 16. eot26thF
The Subscriber, I
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
1 books, which have been kept open for t-heio|nfpec-
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 3 eft
ult. and will during the present month remain n
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for a
their further invefligation and fcrut-ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ift 1798.
Surveyor General's Office, ]
December 2. 1797. r ]
" a release of survey of 433 acres,6B perches j
\~J of land, fijuate in lower Smithfield townftip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills, r
per warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz, Jl
Thi«land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and f
Georee Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene-
ral—William Varker. d;
The iirft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the above caveat, or any n<
others interested or concerned therein, they having C
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary o'
of the Land OSee. hi
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §trF»wtm
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, pro'pjfing to o.triO hit busi
ness, offers this ERite for (ale, on moderate r— |
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Sorting Machine, and a Very good grift «
Mill, with two pair ol Hones; alio a good Forgr, all
in perfeft repair, as ate all the Water Works conneft- P"
ed wiih these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built lor the porpofe of calling Cannon ro '
for this State.—There are about two thouland acres roi
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other dr
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hav and is j
Pa (lure. The Cannon lately mannlatmrcd there, |J
fully proves, the excellency of the metal, which it ( '
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal j r
to any in .he world ; for not we of futvnine g«ns „
lately made, although some of the were bored
| into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fnu
a.loll is very eligible, particularly for this branch of d <>'
manufacture, aad a place ol arms lying in the (tale m 3
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land - 1
"igs on the Hudson's liver, and having every aHvan. »b'
tage thai can relult from a plemy'of water iff,gn»
from a large natural pnr.d, very near ihe Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety ol other J
ufelul purposes. The can beaccommod.l
ed wuh all thelloekand and have polßni in
on or before the fitil of June next, and prepar.tion
may be madein themcan time lor goinginto Blall im
mediately there.ltrr, ( or every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For g
tcrmi, apply to Mr. |ofepJl Anthony, in PHilade!-
phia; David Brooks, Liq. cne of the Renrefenisi-ivej
in Congrcls lor this State; Mr, B rvid Wateiman, on
theprcmifes, or totheproDrietor in New-York «
WILLIAM NEILsON. ufel
Landing this day, Zui
From on boawl tus schooner Two Friends, Dan \
ie\ Crawley, Maiter, theii
»iip'cV and n amai caRUM, X'
FOR SALE BV " al
George Latimer & San. "["
Utyemutr 9. Fc
By John Fknno, N" up Chefmtt Street.
;. ■ terra of Co-Jiartner!hip between the sub-
I 1. fci ihers, trading under the firm of John Mil
I Icr, jun. and Co. eitpiros t)iis day, and by mut a!
hof I confcot will not be renewed- Ihe dekts and con
Sale, cerns of the fame WiH be fettled by John Miller,
reet, Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnership
are earneflly requefled u make payment to, with
out delay.
two JOHN MILLER, r„„.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
■are, February 19 -. f
a h n " FOR SALE, it
r een John Miller, jun.
ro!11 Ne. Chtfnut street,
. at A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
»I 4 AMBNCI T WHICH AR I
iut- Gurrahg Mam«odiet
the Bafta» Sannas
of , Guzzenas Tanda Coflfacs
ity. Guzzies Emertics
ory Blue Cloths Caliche*
i tu . Palampoors Romall H»ndterchief s
ch- Amongst them are • great proportion of the ma
ted nufadurcs of Patna.
ith British Dry Goods,
ern J *
A I SO,
'"" Forty puncheont of high ptoof Rum.
February 19
*et, Alex. J. Miller & "James Davit,
ent Having entered into partuerdiip under the firm of
nk Alexander I. Miller & Co.
ro - TNFORM their friends in town and country, that
M X thi y have opened a Wholef.le Dry Good Store,
iir, " No " 6^'Soutl ' F r»nt .Sireet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now hive, and intend kceeping a general as.
fo.ttment of India, German, Irijl, French and Bri.
I'fi MannfatSuresfor sale, on advautageous termr
' for cash or a {hort creoit.
February 19 § t f
he For Sale by the Subscriber,
hc Forty-nine bales of Mnflins, being the re
mains of the fliip India'i last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
im 7 Boxei of Umbrellas
t_ X S Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 dlw
rk " ~ A P R I N t.
THE Print, representing General Washin#-
Ton and his family, all whole lengths in one '
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the **th of
March next. <
An unfinilhed impreHion is to be seen at Mr. M'El- 1
wees's looking-glass store, No. 70South Fourth Street. (
#j} Tnefubfcription will close on the roth of March f
_h next. Subfc.ibers may depend on having the be(t 1
Prints at one guinea and an kalj, To noa-iubferibers,
the price will be two guinea*.
February 19.
c 3* Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his mailer's employ, in the
city "ps Philadelphia, on the sth of this is- n
ftant Febrnry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
b«ut 5 feet 6or 7 inches in height, and of rather _
1- a /pare make ; his phifiognomy is vacant but noi r
n dilagreeable ; his age is supposed to be aiiout 40.
,/■ He had on when he went away, a ftiort blue cloth
e coat, striped caflimerc vest, corduroy breeches,
[. and yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture— *
J hc took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long t,
brown cloth coat ; a (Hort blue cloth coat with
buff colouwd cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of ?'
cloth breecnes ; the other cloathos he took with
him cannot he particularly dcfcribed. P
; s It is supposed, he inttnd9 going to the. eastern n
> fl»ore of Maryland. Whoever will appreheud, and
ft secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his mailer
n may get him aga'w, or bring him home, y
r a reward of twentV dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. §
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the an infol- j ia
vent debtor, confined in the common~Jroal of j n
the County of Cape May in the state of New- |p
Jersey, hath petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, prating that they would
attend to hear wh it can be alledgeii for or a- tf)
I gainst bin liberation, purfuanr to an a£l of the
I-egiflature of this State,entitled "an aA for
. the relief of insolvent debtors," pafT<?d the a6th
day of Ja uary. 1798 —And the the fa d court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of Man h
, next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
r C«urt House in the Middle Precindl, at eieven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are requefl*d to take notice. On
CHARLES ALLEN*.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
. Feb 14 —iawrw Al
Princeton—New-Jersey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which [
the late iVfrs Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together witli all the ap- p i
purtenances. lhe house. is two (lories high, a
of frame work and painted. There are four c
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is pived with stones. In it are a uel! of excel
lent water, an oven, a smoke honk, and hoaf,.
tor ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay V
loft, gra-aery. and convenient (lables, with four Sev*
(lallt for horses, and four for nea. cattle. The
is 60 feet wide upon the street, and 254 feet T,cl
fomewhat more than half of whu h ik P otl
made into a kite hen garden of an excellent foil ' n £
For terms, which will be ma e very reason f P n '
able, apply to the reverend c j on
Samuel S. Smith.
January rp. aaw4w
IN THE PRESS, ~ fcjl"
And speedily t 'will be Publijhed\ c<
For the benefit of the , an<
marine society of the uni j f.d states,
A general plan and system of ReguKinor.s therein :
IVritten at Sea, in the year I 794 .•
And r.ow printed
MY THE AVTUOR.
** A navv woald he maintained hut to an almcft tj
ufelcfs purpefe which taking the seam n kept the
merc-hantmen idle ia port, and trading vrflVls
would be as unrrcfitaMy employed, if they took
all thofefeamen v hofc(k:ll and courage onbrar J (hip« p
of war, would giva them pr tetfion and secure •
their fafity. We har- enough fcr both purposes,
and the cultivating hand 0/ attention alone is want
ing to multiply their Dumber. " Money may buy fn w
ali naval flares, 4xc.pt mariner?; but, unless a trace
•« supply ot thfm U prefervod, no wealth will be as its
4< able to procure them.*' tetht
Fetruary 7. r
Bafken ridge—for ialc
con I"T consists of 92** acres, olmoft all of which i«
iller, a fine rich Meadow, (the rcfldcrceof the late
fliip 2«H Of Stirling). It may be conveniently dtacifled
irith- into five farou, four of v*hi:h are bbumieki on the
East hy the river Faiaick.
1 hr* are on it a number of buildings, forming
SR. a ty u *' re oi ,lcar Jy three aeres—The dwelling Kaufe
' i* a very corrvt nfent one and a Imall eiptncc would
put it in complete repair.
The! orchard ccniiits of 1500 fin*bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and .there, i 6 on other ptm'of faiJ
trail near 30c other Apple Trees— alio a great •'
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the
JOj heft and rioA delirious kinds.
Also, a great number of btautiful Exotics Aid
Forest Treos that add to th# beauty and conveni
ence of the place Its situation is abrut iS inies
'rem the towns cf Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—-It
is wood d and watered.
eft l o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ma . in caih, on delivery of the Heed*. Please to «n
---•iuircof T. McEUf.N & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
Frejh Fruit.
lof "To-morrow morniug will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
hat br "% e > 'he cargo of the schooner Fretle
>re, rickloufg Packet, Captain Pearce frt>m
i eru Malaga, viz.
as. Bloom Raisins in kegs
?r*. Do. Do. in boxes
tif Muscatel do. ia do.
Figs in k
f Almond kernels in cafcs and bc«es
Soit (hell'd almonds in faqkt
Prunes in boxes
re- Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, Bcc.
The whole of the ntides ftippsd at of the firtt
qualities.
Jf For Sale ly
Peter Kubn.
February 5 d^ e '
Piifon Manufactory.
.. FOR SALE,
)ne At the Prifoii of the City and County of PhiladeV
of phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, Irom to aody
El- Flooring Brads. Spriggs, saddle and card Tacka
et. Oakum and chipped Logwood
ch Shoemakers and Sadl- rs Thread ]
eft Also—Sawed Marble, fuitible for currier's tables,
tomb and liea Ilones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms slabs, facia, window lieaiis, fills, c . "
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
1 moderate price.
* Orders from a dirtance, dircftcd to Daniel Tho- ,
mas, agent l.r the poison, will be attended to. ,
„ December lb. mth6m £
0 For sale or to be let on ground- i
[ h rent, c
QITUATE on the nonh-eaft corner et VVal- •
~ " ut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State- '
» House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front -
1C on Walnut ftrret, and one hundred and thirteen
h feet and an half on Fifth street; there are at
present two freall two story brick houl'es, and a
>n number of small tenements thereon,
d r dlfo, for Sale, " r
r Two three story Brick Houses th
e With convenient flores, wharf, Sc. fimate on so
Water street, between Mulberry an 1 SaflYfras:
Streets, containing fn front an Water street sis
- ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eafl
ward n:nety-five feet. tl<» widening to the
south thirteen feet fix iaclies. These limits
f ! ,,ve lhe convenience of a pubi c alley arfj in- -
mg on the north fide, and area ver« defirablefit
' uatintt for a a merchant, flour fadW, or others t
* who may have occasion for (lorage of go. ds. t
7 hit, property will be fo'd c.n very re->£>n<tble ' ar<
tfrrms J"r ralh. For further information apply
] to the printer. m;
1 3'- mSwtf th'
t Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Oores of McfTrs. Dob
» son, Camfbkll, Y-6i|ng and Okmkod, .
in Phi!adelphi« t
OBSERVATIONS
0n the Caiifcs and Cure of Rsmittiiig «r Bilious At
Fevers.
which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of (he op nions and praSice of C
different authors : and an -'.FPENDIX. cichib
iting intcrcliirg faAs and icflcAion* relative to «
the Sj/nachut I&eroiJti, or , i ellow Fever, which
ha. occafi ,ned so much diftref, and mortality,
at differtfit periods, in several »f the seaport ''
towni of rht liniredS'ates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, Lal
Felow of' the Pliiladelphi* College of i hyficims,
and Member of the American I'hilolophic.il So-'
cw, y- Feb. 1 —*,h,s . 1
—
Canal Lottery-—No. 11. p';; 1
- 1 - »an
WIJ-L commence drawing Monday, the aeth ''''
inft. Tickets for Sale in ttys Lottery at Mu
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'. Lottery doc '
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-Href— J am
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten P ro '
Dollar,, where check books are kept lor register- e,ni
ing and examining in these. the City ol Wafting- fu!t
ton, No. ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa- tcr :
tion where tickets mayhe had in most .f the I.otte- ft
ries authorised by law in ?.ny of the States of the ' r c
Urtion. fers,
N. B. The business of a Bjoker. inbuyingaod Yo °
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities
difco»«ting Bills and Notes of Hand, f.de of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. wiUbeduly attended to,
I "T WM. BLACKBURN.
! Novemberis. §
IN THE PRESS,
SPEEDILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
f Price 25 Cents) . Mori
Refledlions on Monroe's View
Of THK CONDUCT OF TH' EXFCI/Tirt,
As published in the Tuef,
GAZETTE of t-he UNITED STATES,
Under the fionatiire of
S CIP 10, fTci
In whicli the com:nel*cial warfare of France is
traced to the French faiHion in this country ''
as i,s lource, and ;be motives of oppofition
t» the nieafures of the United States ;r: c'xpofid.
Fib. So .
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIMR*, No. 21, Penn-(lr(tt,
ch i* The Cargc of the Ship Ganges,
J«hn Grerrt-, commander,from Bengal^
tt'the r/
Baftas, of various qualities and price®,
m'mg CoCae# Punjum Cloth*
laiife Guvzeydo.
•ould Humhums OiafCMU Dorea
C!:th T^njib#
£raf- Chintz and Calicoes MuL-n#l#
fluid Mainoodys Checks
jjreat Maharagongtrg Pauja Hkfs. '
' Mulmu da.
Guzzcnas Bandannots
Givrrahs Siflerfoy
.em- Piniafcocs Choppa Homats
"? es Saljratchys Sooiv do'.
D G °; Gillie RdmaVs Perfuns of rarioui e«t.
Meik Pulicats
»oo ions SUGAR
i r.PPEI'..
Willing! & Frtntis.
The Piecf Goods
—— Of the Ganges are now open to file at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
lyiari-et and Founh-llreeis.
■ -!'•) A few Bales gf Madraft Ilkfs. of tle
at gap; patier. sandbeft c*lo»rr
aw- February %. , d t f
de " FOR SALE,
** By WHAR'IbN tst LEWIS,
No lI f South front Stfeefr
A quantity si Tann r's Oil,
, 4th proof Jamaica "> entitled to
lit and 2dpro«f fcrandy, J, drawback.
Madeira W*ne,
Juniper Ksrri.es,, &c. Stc.
F S S: " - . eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
3rft a 6 hoglheids wa ST. tk>JlX SUGAR,
for sale ffr
JCiINNIXOtiV Co.
Flb - 9 fm&wtf
- Wanted,
An atflive, Clkanly, industrious woman to cook
aeid do the bttfinefs , f the kftchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 j
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doftor ol > Ship to the Eafl-lndies.
es > , Enquire at No. 25 Dj.lt Street.
«. - Fcb - 6 - d.w
Ran away from the Sulfcribcr,
at On the 24th January tail,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
I 0" CHE is of t middling sized flaturc, thick lips,
, mar *s d w "'> the small pox in the sice—She
Carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
, tabes her up and bri'-gs her to the fubferiber, at
«o. lot, Arch-street, comer of Foorth-ftrset,
fliall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
il- • A 3 ',,Y hoever harb ° r - fid Girl alter this no
ticc, Jhall be profecutcd to the severity of the law.
Fehro«t» 10.
it
I NO-TIC K.
A LL persons v/ho have any demands srainft
L *- the eftatc,of WILLIAM COMPTO V lat
of the city Of Philadelphia, dcciafcd, are rtqu.fr
ted to lurmfh their accounts duly attefled. And
thole who are indebted to f,id iftat,, are earn.si It
n A ,"f to , rr,3,!c ""mediate payment, to either of
s Che subscribers.
Isaac Cathrall, ~l
John Ha worth, L Admini'ftratori.
Samuel WiUox. J
' »7_ . WS4 „
• NOTICE.
8 AY; P "T f T','^ btC „ d to the cfta,e ef Peter OiH
. late of the Dittna of SosthwarJ;, tkc afed
c ; 7<'X? \ make T? dijte P=»-">«»toS
f of the Sufcfcriber ; and those who have any de
mands aga.nft fa id cilate arerrquefted to br.ng in
their accounts dnly atterted.- to
John Murphy, "J
Scravenrlyle, (. E ™CU.
Thomat FarrelL I tor3 t
6 1 J 'awaw.w
Lately Published,
, And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cernejof
Second and Chefnat I,rests,
„, r (Price Z-%U, 0/ „ Ml ar J '
F vat ions on certain Dtcumentt
C'on aincd in Ko. V and Vf of
" The HjiftorY of the United Statei for
the year 1796,"
In which the ca.uct ol sptrnLATios a o a ;„ft
ALEXANDER HAMILTQT
Late Sicretart 01 the Treasury is FUI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN lt himself.
This publication prefem, a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United Stntes to asperse the charaders cf those
perfnns who are conlidered as hoHile their disor
ganizing schemes. a |f o c oHt a,n, the correfpon
bc.twct'" Mr ' Hamilton an : Messrs. Morrot
Muhlenburg and Venablc, on the fubieCt of the
documents aforefaid, and a Irr-c. of letters from
James Reynolds and h.s wife to Mr Hamilton
proving ..cyond the poflibility of adoufct, thatth*
Mnneaion between him artd Reynold'njas the re
ot i daring confpiraey on the part o:- the lac
ter and his alh>ciate» to extort money.
Pr A dif.onnt of one third from the reuil
price wi.l be made id favor ef wholesale parcha-
Yoo/r CAS "' order ' " bC addrcfßd 'o Mr.
Feltruary 9.
SALES BY AUCTION.
• Stated Sales *
For DRY G00X) s.
r Forenoon—Edwar<l Fox, No
MonJaj) Kront-flrect,
J ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No A.
C South Front (Ireet. *
C F*f£noo«i—John Connelly, Old Ci«»
TuefilajJ N" yjfoutn l. rom .ft "
/ Aft « ri>^. n —William Shannon, M O .
183 High-ftreset.
JTeWy J A VT n r7 V rr * lenfen ' No- 74
C south Third-ftrcet.
Tlmrfiay \ Fwnoon—£dw*rd Fox.
( Atternooo—John Con^Hy
Friday ( For, noan-Will, a ,„ Shannon.
• Afternoon —John Conndlr.
Satnrday A Ircrnaoa—PcJerßrafcn,
\_l'6LUM£ XlllWASHINGTON LOTTERY.
Uyr or Pkizis ahi> ULA***.
163 d Day't Drawing—January zi:
-V». Dots. AO. Dots. Ao> Otis. No. l)ols.
87 11646 iij 1 3Jilo
6ji x 11064 11785 i»i
713 07i x IJSI3 * 3S* *
IJI9 61 j 010 x 3'.» x
71i SlO »4194 * 947 x
l.ttS *'* x .)!9 1*37!
I n S IJJio *5464 x j77
947 X s*B 1610, *l4
349J 601 * »B*J7 9*7 x
41 9 6oj x 449 37»o8
4'l 10 861 x *9°93 * 45*
rjoi * 9»j * J(oi7 3*7{6
6966 9x7 x 69#
7039 14601 7' 0 * 993
611 *5153 ® Ol 4"664
jc* J9B x 969 4'oiJ
849 619 98s 4197 1
*OB4 x 734 3* ,4 » 43559 *
714 <7>43 804 44j6i
943 * 18791 33 1 1 40J
9.1.3 >9ic9 647 4JJ3 I
333 10 333 U* * 46943 *
locßl leiSi ?4* 47 *44
4?9 , 394 34419 49»7»
11331 J7i 494 797
164 th oay'» Drawing—January 17.
»it 11187 a8oc» 40338
817 716 351 * 3^5
841 Bjl 345 44»
1171 13113 ,c, B x 53#
7-61 x T95 x *74 x 774
In 1481 *97-56 4<»9'
874 1J560 3»'J7. 6c&
901 166;4 I' 7 88S
t0;,4 * 6ii x JIIC6 964
304 17888 384 4«76
3199 18374 '44 406 x
ir7 x 19169 »o 31011 861
331 .<•«! 33°40 983 -
471 .61S '*4 *' 43871
601 10947 591 . 445 74 X
5743 x 11055 * 4,6 x
<l7l TIJ 64* 735 *
7616 x 541 774 * 79*
191 10 71J 34178 847
Bc*4 iioij x 331 x 906
461 IJO.H 7 6 S 9*7
9115 li< 819 933
114 47X 35650 10 45150
339 . 49* * 36009 630 X
733 * 5*3 010 740 x
997 613 X 016 X 774
10533 63® 2 8 X 46066
546 x 14810 x 404 931 *
773 X 937
795 130.74 957 * in
»li4t 4C3 37J»7 16?
481 x 361 x 3878s 13 609
661 811 In 795
735 1.6806 x 938 956
811 x 934 39C93 x 48480 X
86' 964 '4l 408
1.138 x *7tC9 * 6 5 6
17c 687 x 789
new theatre.
THE Ma lagfrs deem it their f"utv to inform the
public, (bit' be Ir ntertainmen • o! the Theatre are un-|
avoidably fuipepded 'till Mondjvnexr. in confequcnce
gf the unfortunate indilp l futon of Mr. Mokitom,
he it-idiious deffftion o! V 7 CoorEß, and the ur
preccd'med. peJtmp ory relufal of Mr. Fft.VNBLL
to pctfotm the chataCter tvite announced for him. Of
the si Hpt n'letnari the Mar muft ever speak ir\
terms of approbation and frieiid-
Ibiu. for that uniform exertion in his ptob (fian
which has ft once advanced the inrerefts of the drama
and juiily rendered him a favorite of itspat'uns. On
Mr. Cooper'i conHu&, thev esn make no remark at
this time, a- the vio'ation of his eontraft is the fubjefl
of a fu.t, now depending in the Supreme Court: arid
in relation to Mr. Fcnnelf; tfey are conrent, at pres
ent, 10 obfetve, that it.dependent of the good faith
which his engagements ought to inspire, the liberali
ty that be has hithertoexpencrced fiom the managers,
as well as Irom Lhe.pubiic r bad naturally railed an ex
pectation, that he would not ungratefully have taken
advantage of the extftingftate ofthe Theatre, cither to
embarrals the former, or to obuniit the amufementsof
.Ibe latter
Tlte Managers, having thus refpe&fttlly repre
-fented the real cause of rhe poftponem'ent of.
their Entertainments (an event equally uaexpeil
ed and prejudiciil) cannot avoid adverting ro
the difficulty of executing, with univrrfal appro
bation, so arduous a talk as that which they have
undertaken; but they felemnlydeclarethat in e»en
department of their duty towards the public, and
in all their tru'faiftions with the performer, their
ineelTant efforts has been to give fatisfa&ion ; and
under x thii declaration rhry a.ixieully hops that rhty
lball experience favor and proteiflion ; a candid in
terpretation of their C ! ">nriu&, snd a fpiritnf mu
tual accommodation.
WIGVELL E3" ILEIKAGJLE.
Febraary 10,
"BALL
Postponed on account of the Elc&ion, to
Saturday the 24th.
Mr. Francis, at the, request of his Schol
ais has, on account of the Eledtion, postpon
ed his present Bali, to Saturday the 2.4 th. —
Mr. F. also informs the Subscribers to his
S'ele& that the firft of the ft con d
fubfeription will be on Tuesday theS7th.
Feb. 22.
TERMS-
Eich Subscriber to pay Five Doll rs, which
entitles himroa gentleman's ticket, and c*rds of
admiflion for two ladies at each ball.
The firil ball to be on Tuesday, 20th o
February, and to be continued every Tuesday
till the end ofthe fubfoiption, at the end of
which .\?r. Francis propofei giving an extra ball
to the fubfcriberj.
Mr. Francis also informs those gen
tlemen-who have not already lubfcribed, fliat
the plan of rhe fubfeription is to be seen at Mr.
F.'shoufe, No. 70 North Kighth street.
A O~T I C E.
A Manufactory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as nevt-r was in this Country has been
bern lately ereded at i ivoli, Red Hook Landing
or\the F.aft Bank of Hud lon's River, ika'e of New-
vthe-re any article of va ious and rhapes
may Be cxecu ed, as well as earthern fto.ves upon .<
new conflin6lion, that favca three fourths of the fuel
commonly ufrd in catt iron lloves or open chvmnies;
they aiebefidesvery wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
glaring pait of the fa» J ware. Generous appoint,
ments willbe Apply asafcovc. or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South ,51b Street.
.Feb. 19. rod4'v
Cavanagh &Hcarn,
Piiir* flreet, near tl e New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
•*d hope, by their unremiting attention, to
irrrit a continuance of their favors. '] he part
nership between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
been diflolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn havejufl recc ved a quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahogoay, which they
intend to fell on very reasonable term* for cash.
Orders from the country most punctually exe
cuted. Vinccrs of all kiuds ctft as usual.
Jan. aaw4w
Xl<sasettc.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRID \Y EVI'.NING, FEBRUA9T 13.
For the Gazette of the United States.
efttSions on the ftefent Jlatt of this Country.
The Jacobins ba»e left no artifice or falfe
hood unefTayed, that are like to deceive
thtir fellow-citizens, or to divert their in
dignation from the crimes ef France. One
of their mast common tricks has been, to re
present that many headed monster, the re
public, as waging war against the tyrant) of
Europe, to ettablifli unirerfal liberty and
peace ; when nothing can be more foreign
fromthe truth. The cafe is just the reverfcj
this common enemy has invaded the rights
of all ether nations, and, abroad as well as
at home, has (hewn the mod daringcontcmpt
for every law and principle, that it reverenc
ed among men. Their footftrps are mark
ed with rapine, desolation and (lavery every
where.
Whatever these deceivers may publifli, or
their dupes may believe to the contrary, it
is clear, people of France are as far
: from fighting for liberty, or enjoying it, at
this day, a« ever Rome was under her mod
detested tyiants. That phrenfy, which pqf
feffed the sovereign Canaille, at the beginn
ing of the revolution, and which was in
dulged by their leaders, until ther had de
stroyed the ancient monsrehr, has given
place to a lethargie rtupor, the confequenpe
•f universal, and unexampled oppreflion.
Their nqeks are now become callous; they
ire ready to receive the yoke from any hand
no matter how vulgar or infamous.
After fighting like devils, for 7 years, to
conquer liberty, as they phraze it, the people
of F rancc arc, at this instant, the most con-1
tcmptible llaves existing. There is nothing
that they dare call their own—not even their
fouls—for their tyrants have decreed that
they have none.
It is one Barms, a rebel Gens d'armes,
that now presides at the head of the Divan;
and the power which he apd his colleagues
acquired by violence, they now retain, by
oppressing all that oppose them. It is an
insult to common sense ; it is a profanation
of the name of liberty, to couple it with
such agents, or such a cause.
How vain is it therefore to look to the
present degraded race of Frenchmen, for
another struggle in behalf of their violated
rights ? how much more so to cxpeft they
will exert themselves, to defend their allies,
or neutral nations. If this work ever suc
ceed, it ntull be undertaken by the armies;
and as soon as they have fim'flied their work
of deftru£tion abroad, it is very probable,
that these apostles of liberty will turn their
hands on their own government, and'pull it
to pieces. Cffifar and Pompey, either u
nited or opposed, will easily give a maftier to
Rome. The crimes of France; the repose
of Europe ; and universal justice ; all point
to such an issue as fall approaching.
As soon as the military chiefs have got in
to n good understanding, and have fettled
their plan of operations, Barras and all the
other civil tyrants of France, if fuffered to
live, will become mere pageants; they(will ;
be as contemptible as the Roman Senate,
under Tiberius, or the Caliphs of Mecca, '
under the Grand Turk. The present drou
fy race of Capets are unworthy the throne
of Charlemagne; they have not a man of the
family, that has courage enough to 4ont«nd
for it.
But whatever may be tie future fate of
this degraded people ; whether they are des
tined to groan long, under the scourge of
vulgar tyrants, or to submit to the milder
sway of their ancient line of princes ; it is
happyforus thatthe alliance betwernFrance
and America is at an end. God forbid it
should ever be revived! Fraud, infoler.ee
[ and rapine have, at length, broken those
bands with which treachery, intrigue, and
hvpocrify, had once enslaved us.
It is true; we have fuffered great'and re
peated insults; to this day our merchants
are plundered by sea and land, without the
smallest hope of relief or redress; we eom
plain, and are refufed, even, the compliment
of a hearing: but these evils are alias light
as air, when compared with the mifchiefs
and dangers of so treacherous a friendlhip.
The affair is now at issue. We must either
<gree to submit to every injury, that the
ferocious Gaul can inflift, or resolve man
fully to repel his aggressions. It is not e-
HOHgh to defend Ourselves, and to proteA
our commerce, but we ought to aflail the
enemy by every means in our power. To
vibrate between peace and war ; to wait for
the return of honour and ju!lice in a nation
of robbers; would be the crime of an idcot.
When I call to mind the animation that
glowed from north to louth, against the
claims of Great Britain, in the year feven
ty-five, and compare it with the dastardly
tamenefs that prevail* at this instant, when
every thing that is dear to men and christi
ans is brought into ten-fold greater jeopardy,
I am astonished at the change : I can hard
ly persuade myfelf that I live in the fame
country. One of two things is clear : we
have either degenerated with unexampled ra
pidity, or the zeal, that operated the revo
lution, was something far lefi neble than
the love of liberty.
" How fV'r our ancient glories, while we run,
" 'l'o court far deeper bondage, than we (hun !
" Where isthe gencrons, a&ive, riling flame,
" 'll at boasted liberty's immortal name *
4 * El z d lor its right* infring'd, it* trophies torn,
" ADd taught proud Alt-ion herm:I 1 akc to mourn,"
If a seven year's war with Great-Britain,
to effe&uate a separation, and an enormous
load of taxes that have ensued ; if so many
pompous, annual, feftivities to celebrate the
day of our liberation are all to rcfult in a
feeble government, in (lifcord, and anar
chy, among ourselves, and a tame, das
tardly fubmiflion to the rapacity, infoience
and ambition of France ; I fay, that the
Icliange !i a Calamity too great for
tion j that the resolution instead of a bltf
l ling is a cnrfc that will wheln its authors in
prrpetual infamy ; and hand their names
down to posterity with growing execration.
That the danger I have just hinted at, it
no chimera of the imagination ; but a real
and tremendous evil, that approaches near
er and nearer every day—[ appeal to every
man the pr?fent state of' this
, country with serious attention. To be
plundered and insulted abroad, without dar
| ingtu resent it ; to be weak, divided, and
| despised at home ; are strong symptoms of
| a sickly and declining frame, whith it re
quire* the fervid patriotism of 75 to re-an
imatc.
It behoves the men therefore, who have
receivtd the applause of their country, as
its heroes, and saviors, to looJc to their own
werk ; and cither to secure it by more ener
getic meafiires, or if such fltould be their
unfortunate deftfny, bravely to fall in the
£ttempt.
But although 1 am fnre that the present
situation of our affairs is extremely serious,
it is by Ho means desperate : our evils are
owing to our own fupi«enefs, and want of
spirited exertions, more than to the real
power of the enemy. There is strength
and virtue, enough in the friends of govern
meiit, not only to defend the country and
its interests againll all foreign aggrellions,
but to tread its intelline enemies under feet,
if they were properly roused, and called
into aftion.
But perhaps we wait for the return of our
commiflioners, and a formal declaration of
hostilities on the part of perfidious France ?
Heavens ! is there any man of a right mind
who would judge of peace or war by words
and net by adHons ? The French will not
declare war against these states ; no, though
they were landed on our coaftt. They will
still a flu re us that it is not war that they in
tend : it is only to regulate our government
and to bring about the repeal of some liher
ticirie a&s of Congress, or the fur render
of some obnoxious treaty we have made.
Such were their profefiions to the Holland
ers, Brabanters, Genoese and Venetians ;
and what has been the confequenee ? All
these countries have been swallowed up by
the devouring ambition of France. The
monster, which has already destroyed or en
slaved some of the fined countries in Europe
will not spare the United States. The cave
of Polyphemus has ftili room enough for ;
mare vidims, and we fetm t» court the fa
vor of being the last.
Can we imagine that the dire&ory, who
have hitherto blended artifice with open
force against even the weakest states of Eu
rope tkat they have overturned, will pro
claim their hostile intentions by a formal
manifefto, when they are convinced that
they can Tuin us much sooner without -it.
It is'impoflible ! They would be as stupid
as thty are profligate, if, while we fuffer
their outrages so patiently, and are wholly
taken up with intelline jars, they should by
an open avowal of their designs, put an end
to our private contests, warn us to dire&
all our leal against them, and so deprive
their pensioners, in and out of Office, of
one of their moll specious, arguments. For
my part, I do in my conference think,
| and 1 do not hefrtate to declare, that, from
I the day they refufed to hear our just com
i plaints, and difmiflfed the meflenger of re
; conciliation with contempt, they a&ually
declared war against us, and at the fame
j time left us no room for doubt, or hope of
peace.
AMERICANUS,
From the DEDHAM (MafT.) MINERVA.
PLAIN TRUTH.
Report fays, that our Commiflioners at Paris
are required to fay that they are authorised to a
grec on the part of our nation to the annulling
of the treaty with Great-Britaiu, otherwise to
quit France without even being allowed to
complain of the wrongs and lodes we have
fuffered from tUe French in violation of their
treaty with us This, if true, «wouid shew that
they cannot possibly think more highly of them
feJves, nor more meanly of us. It is like this
cafe, one man goes to ano'ther to complain'that
he is wronged, and for his only fati&fa&ion
gets kick'd out of doors- Laying out of thfe
question, however, the provoking insolence of
this treatment, let us examine calmly for one
moment the justice of the French complaints 1
agaieft the United States. Our treaty with
England operates unfavourably to France ; we
arijnftanold quarrel with that country, which ,
they would like to foment and keep alive. We
are reconciled with their enemy, is the eternal
burden of their song. In five plain words, they 1
wish to fee us at war with England. '
We agree to trade with their enemy, that is '
another grievance—Why not ? Did we ever
promise,"or are we bound by treaty or otherwise \
to deny ourselves the benefits of a fair and free {
trade v.ith all the world ? We did not prom
ife it. As a fovefcign liate, we regulate our own
trade and other concerns, and are riot accounta
ble to France : If we are so accountable, our {
independence is yet to be gained, we are ftiil <
colonies, i
Toftiewhow deceitful and how weak this
pretended obligation to deny bene- f
fits of an open fade with England is, let us <
look at the conduct of France herfelf. First,
the republic has decreed a navigation all as hard
upon American trade as that of Britain. Se
condly, {he required an enormous duty on 10- ]
bacco imported in American bottoms; from t
which French Qiips were exempted. Thirdly, j
she has shut her islands against the most lucrative
part of our commerce. Molafles and Taffia, a .
very bad kind of rum, being all that her perma
nent peace regulations allow us to bring away ; *
and there is little besides lumber, that we are al- <
lowed to carry to her islands ; our fifh was by >
heavy duties alraeft prohibited ; flour she sent
out from Franee. The war at present fnfpends (
tPefe prohibitions, b\it peace will renew them. t
. Now if we are bound ro help Fiance as much
as wc can, fuTcly it is but fair that she should 1
help u» and our trade in turn. Yet the cases
j'.fl mentioned are public and experienced con
ditions of the principle afiumed by France, and •
recommended by parties for the fclf-denying
pra&ice of our nation.
Our confiituted authorities were bound by
oath, and by every principle of duty, to pro
mote by all lawful plans, the good of our coun
try in preference to the advantage of France or
' any other state. Mr. Jay's treaty gave us the 1
- * wcftern ports, which we fcould not hive hi J
! without atreaty,or a war with England,
i It put an end to the expensive Indian wr, snd.
the feed* of other Indian wars will not be so
s ready to fproct as when a hostile neighbour
• flood ready to sow and cultivate them,
s | An immenfdy valuable and increasing trade
1 with the Eafl-Jndirs is feeured on a solid foun
. dation by the treafy.
r The to flea of onr merchants by unjust cap
tures, are in a wav to be compensated —part cf
s the monry is actually paid, more it decided up-
on in England by the treaty commiilioners, and
the payment of the remainder is more to be
[ hoped for than the recovery of one dollar of the
f fen or fijteen millions übjufily captured by the
French.
And finally, Ms. Jay's treaty hat giveit our
Ihips better security from British capture, than
we enjoyed before the treaty,'much better than
the friends of government generally ex
a security which our newfpipers, and the rcfo
lminns o/ bodies of merchants announce to •<,
our trade ar p'r<fent actually enjoys.
A man itiuft he blind and stubborn indeed,
who will not fee and acknowledge that the good ]
of our country required that we should avoid a j
war with Britain, and fecure'the iorewuntroned '
and other ad vantages, by an accommodation of
difputp*. That our ft* eminent waa bound to
iiurfue tins policy ; that the United States, by
their own hefts in ereft, have given no
more ground of offence to France, than France
has to the United States, by the monopoly of
Her Weft-India trade,and by navigation afls and
tobacco decreet, aM deeply hurtful to our inter
ests. That if Frmce, a flu mi rig a right to fay
what treaties we (hall not make, (hall insult
our nation through pur three mefTengers of
peace and reconciliation, and go on to rob our
(hips and w< und cwr fearnen, jnffice will he
>n the fide of America, and he must it afalfe
hearted and menu spirited wretch, <*> bo eats the
bread of his country, and w'tlf ~ct take its part —
our liberty is too g«od for him : Let him go tc
France, where the privileges if citixer,Care'fcan
ty enough te affordfime excuse trthofc wb» Viaut
the dtfgojition to defend them.
From the Massachusetts Srr.
The PILLAGE TATTLKR.
These violent delights have violent ends,
And in their triumph die ; like fire and powder,
Which, as they meet,®onfuma Sbakspeark.
IT is an observation fanftioi»ed by popular o
pinion, that oneextrenn generally leads to its op
pefitc. Exccflive joy, i* often fuccteded by grief
>in an equal degree; and the tempest of paiiion,
lollowed by th< naoA calm and rational reflations.
How often do we fee some men, at one hour ca
pering like a Merry Anirtiv, while perhaps the
next i* appropriated to gravity and seriousness.
Various as the weather ; which it alternately plea
fantandunpleafant. I'his sudden transition ot the
mind is frequently productive of evil conference ;
j we ought, therefore, to keep a conflanc cenriael
over it, nor fuffcr it to be either too qiuth elated
ior deprefled. 1 here is a certain class of men, who
appear to be.never exempt from this misfortune.
I mean those, who afre fubje<Jk to a disorder, com
monly called the Hyf», a disorder, which extin
gu fhes every rational faculty ? and puts the son] at
odds with itfelf Tom. Afrtcor, is periodically At
tacked with this complaint; and, when under its
influence, acSls more like a madman, than a rea
fonakle being. Though surrounded with friends,
he efteeim himfelf torlorn ; and though polLffed
of, every bLefling, which can make life desirable,
infills upon his poverty, and emphasises upon the
decline of his pecuniary circnmftances. He thinks
every one his enemy, and believes friend (hip to
be merely nominal ; full of ostentation, without
any of thofc intrinsic virtues to which it lays claim.
Such a dileafe is truly unenviable. It crowds the
imagination with gloomy objeAs, add spreads o
ver the mind the veil of fadncf-. Reason is ban
ished, and folly reins with ahfolute sway. The
extreme of often hurries its objeA into
imprudences, and sometime* makes him adopt fatal
determinations. What idea can be more ihocking
than that of Suicid" ? And yee it may be reasona
bly fufpe&ed a conftquence of melancholy. A
friend of mine told me, that, a«£tu ted by the ira
pulfe of frenzy, he presented a pi'tol 10 hi* head,
bet was instantly compelled, by a check o? con
fcieoce, to fprhear his h rrid, and almost accom
plished purpose. He couM not account for the
wretcheilnefs, which he fuffered, or deduce it from
any origin.'. His station in life was agree hie, and
his circumffances proiperous. Yet he was apt to
fuffer hi» mind thus to be deluded with imaginary
evil, while he had every reafjn to feel grate nl for
the superiority of hi* situation. Being to
whim and caprice, he was ever under the com
mand of some powerful paflion ; indulging the
extreme, of either joy or sorrow ; the former be
ing but a prelude to the latter, which would infal
libly succeed it, and to whieh it always proved in
*rodn&ory.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 2i.
The ufuai time of calling the house to
order being arrived, the Clerk desired mem
bers to take their feats, which being done,
Mr- Kittera said, the Speaker had desi
red him to inform the house that he was so
much indisposed as to be unable to attend j
the House to-day. Mr. Kittera, fuggef- ■
ted the propriety, therefore, of adjourning '
the orders of to-day till to-morrow. <
J. Williams did not fee a necessity for :
this. He thought the house might infor
mally go into a committee of the whole on
the report of the Committee of Privileges. t
He had seen this course taken in other le- <
giflative bodies and as it would be the means j
of saving a day, he hoped this mode would 1
now be adopted. J
Mr. Thatcher hoped gentlemen would j
notconfent to go on with business in an in- t
formal manner, iince it was evident they were ,
fufficien'ly informal, with all their forms. j
Mr. Harrifon enquired if there was any
probability that the Speaker would be able '
to attend the house to-raorrow. If not, he
should be for chufing a temporary speaker.
Mr. Kittera said, the indisposition of the
speaker was occasioned by a severe head-ach,
to which he was fwbje& ; that it generally
continued for fix or eight hours, and after
wards he was perfe&ly well. 1
The queltion for pojtponing the orders ' 1
of the day till to morrow was then put by J
the clerk, ?nd carried ; and then the house J j
adjourned tix-morrow. T
~ FOR SALE, *
A quantity of CALF SXIN£, in the rough, 1
and some horse leather. Apply to t 4
ROBERT SMITH iff Co. j c
N0.58, South Front street. j ,
Feb. r <:• diwr . c
Hyibn and Young Hylon Tea. i
A tew chels of excellent ijmlky, for sale. lor; i
ncr of Sccoad and Pine lkreec, D.t • 6—t«tf i
The following report was on Wcdveftlay Ust t
! laid before the House of ReprtlentStivcs.
| Rtpoar ofthe CowfciiTTft o/Piutiligm,
to whom was referred, §* the 16tb injlant, a
Motion for the Expulsion of Rocc*
Griiwoid *nd Matthiw Lyou, Menr-
Lcrs of this Hiife, for riotous and ds [orderly
behaviour, committed in the House. Ordered
to lie uu the table the loth February, 1
Pubbjied by order of the House tfkeprej'cntatibet.
REPORT.
THE committee of privileges, to whom wa
, referred a refutation, in the following words, to
wit—" Resolved, tbat Rojr£r Grifwold and Mat
4*thew Lyon, members ofthis house, for riot
u ous and di/orderly behavour, committed in
" the house, be expelled therefrom," with in
ftruftions to report the evidence, in wiiting,
have, according to the order of the house, pro
ceeded to uke the evidence, which they here
with report ; and they report further, that it is
thejr opinion that the said refolutiou be disagreed
to.
No. I.
Mr. Sitgrea*ves's Teftitrtotty. "
I Having been requested by the committee of
privilege* to communicate my recollection of the
afFair Which occurred between Mr. Grifwold v
and Mr. Lyon on Thnrfday !aft, I depose a* fel
lows t—l do not rtcvllcA to have observed at
what time eijher Mr. GrifwoM or Mr.* Lyon
came into the house, nor did I fee the com
mencement of the fracas j I was in my feat,
engaged :n writing, when ray attention wag ex
cited by the found or report of a heavy b!o\V $
I looked to the quarter froii whence th* found
seemed to proceed, an<J saw Mr. Lyon on his
feet, in the place where heufually fits, and Mr.
Grifwold in the area, in front of him, beating
him over the head anri shoulders with a cane or
walking stick ; Mr. Lyon appeared to be en
deavouring at once to the blows, and to
extricate kioafelf from the chairs and defies of
the row in which he flood ; hefoon was in the
area, and Mr. Grifwdd continued to beat him,
keeping hin. at such a diliar.ee that the blows
could rake effefl, until Mr. Lyon turned and
ffod behind the partition, in the rear of the
fpeakrr's chair, whither he was pursued by Mr.-
Grifwold, ft ill beating him ; as I remained in
my place, they were for a moment out of
my fight* which was intercepted by the partition,
but they almost immediately appealed again,
Mr. Lyon holding in his hand the tongs, which
lie grasped by one leg ; Mr.Grifwold seized wi;h
his 'left hand the arm by which Mr. Lyon held
the tongs, and closed in with him, and ihortly
afterwards I saw them come to the ground to
gether, Mr. Lyon falling under Mr.'Grifwold.
1 then left my place ; the members fathered
round them, and they continued ou the floor
for a few moments, Mr.-Lyon being Hill under
Mr. Grifwold, until they vrere parted by one
m'ewnber separating their arms and fhdulders,
while others fetzed.each, one of Mr. Gril
wold's legs, and in that manner dragged him
off. When tliey were separated I went to Mr.
Grifwold, and.observing that he had »not his
cane, advised him to get it again, left hefhould
be afTailed by Mr. Lyon who was now on hit
feet. Mr. Gtilwold desired the assistant door
keeper to find hirtane,&thenwent,at my instance,
totakea draught ofwiter; myattention was then
diverted from them for a short time, until it was
again excited by a new alarm in the lobby, at
the louth end of the hall ; on looking toward
that quarter, I saw both Mr. Grifwold and Mr.
Lyon in the lobby, but at the drftance of fix or
feet from* each ottffer ; Mr. Lyon herd a
cane in his hand-j and a? I battened towards
that end of the room, I was met by the afliftant
doorkeeper, who handed me Mr. Grifwold's
cane, and, appearing unwilling to interpose, re
quested me to give it to him ; I did'f and Mr.
Grifwold immediately advanced," apparent
ly to renew the attack on Mr. Lyon, when the
speaker called the house to order, upon which.
Mr. Grifwold directly relinquished his design,
turned round and went to his feat, as I did to
wine. S.SJTGREA.VES.
Sworn and fubferibed the
17th February, 1798.
'Coram, Reynold Keen. r
No. 11.
Mr. Sprague't Tejl'tmony.
I , Peleg Bprague, depose, that on ThurftJay
morning, February 15th, 1798,1 was in con
grefa hall,before the usual hour of meeting ; that
after prayers were read, I saw Roger Grifwold
come into the hall, with a hickory stick in his
iiand ; became near to the fire-place, behind
thefpeaker'a chair, hung up his cloak, and (I
: hink) fct his stick by it, and placed himfelf in
the feat usually occupied by Mr. Dennis, or Y.r.
Evans, and employed himfelf in reading some
letters ; soon after I saw Matthew Lyon come
into the hall with a stick or cane in his*hand ;
he went dire&ly to his place, put his stick be
hind his chair, and set down ; after, fettinga
short time. I observed him to cast his eyes ear
ueftly at Mr. Grifwold ; then he direded his at
tention to some papers before him, on his table,
and seemed to be revising and folding them ;
I looked at both alternately, and thought that
Mr.Grifwold eyedMr.Lyon, but did not intend
any pcrfo-i should observe it; while Mr. Lyon
Was examining his papers aforefaid, I saw Mr.
Grifwold rife from his feat, and advance towards
Lyon with his usual pace, having his stick in his
hand ; I believe that Lyon did not fee Mr. Grif
wold, until he was within reach of
wold immediately struck Lyon over the should
ers, with the little end of the cane or hicjcory,
aforefaid ; »t seemed to me, that when Grif
woldfirft struck, Lyon was partly raised, or in
the attitude of rising hastily ; Grifwold repeat
ed the blows untH Lyon got clear of the feats ;
t en'Lyon advanced towards <jrifwold, as if to
elofe in with hiin ; Grifwold retreated, as if to
avoid it, still repeating the blows until they got
to the fire place, behind the fpeak«r's chair ; then
Lyon took up the tongs, and rhey both closed ;
Grifwold threw Lyon on the floor, and fell upon
him. I then went away anJ saw no more of
the affray. Ido not recoiled that I heardene
word pals betw.een them during the whole time.
Arid further the deponent faith not.
RE,LEG SPRAGUE.
Sworn and fobferibed, the
17th February, 1798.
Coram, Reynold Krene.
No, nr.
Mr. IV' C. C. Clasiorne*s Teflimony.
Hafu day, 17th February.
On Thursday last, after .prayers had been de
livered, the speaker (I believe) in his chair, but
the house not <?a!!ed to order, I was standing
near to the letter-box, and (I think) a
letter, when my attention xvas taken off by a
loud cry of 14 p?rt them," upon changing my
pofi'ien, I saw Mr. Grifwold and Mr. Ly«n en
gaged near to the clerk's feat, the former witk
a large walking stick, which he appar ntly us
ed with all his force, and the latter making his
defence by holding up his arms (without any
weapon at that period) and endeavouring to
clofeinwith his antagonist. Soon afterwards
the combatants fell upon the tioor, near the
ltsye rothe left of the fpeaVer's chair, when I
ran forward and afiifted in paring them. I re
member to have feeu a membor of the housefrfVr fvo»« \fr. 1 v4Ki fdir o' liter
he had fciUu ■j\ the floor. 1 diJ not oKfcrve
the commeflrement of the fracas, nor did I no
tice the attack which it said afterward® to have
l><*en madehy Mr. Lyfrn on Mr. Grif*old, out
side of the bar.
W C. C. CLAIBORNE.
Sworn and fuWcnbed the
17th February, !?og.
Cor*m, Kefir.
r7» be Continued-]
■ ■■K'^wwww^W—mmmm
1 - By yesterday's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 21.
APPOINTMENTS-
On Thursday the Ijth infl.thehon. John
Laofing, jun. was appointed Chief Justice
ot this State—ar.d Richard Harrifon, Esq.
to the office of Recorder of thii city.
r.OMVV A ICATION.
IN the late interview between Buona*
parte and the French Executive Direflory
the Citizen Miniiler of foreign affairs, who
presented him, told the General " that a
new eoemy was calling on him. Let the
genius of Buooaparte make him soon expi
ate his hatred and tyranny, and diSate to !
tl t tyrants of the sea, a peace worthy ot j
the of the French of Republic."
Buonaparte then delivered to the Presi
dent, the Emperor's ratification of the
treaty, and nmenj other things, said,
" V his peace fiemtt the liberty, the pros
perity, and the glory of the Republic."
An orator who not long before made a
fpeech before the assembled Dire£lory, tho't
d.fferently. He declared no at the
defireof the Direftory, " that the govern
ment of Great Britain and that which pre
vails in France, i*ere incompatible, a;.d
could not both exist."
•c _ Buonaparte, however, persists in think
ing otherwise. He adds, and his words are
remarkable, " When the happiness of the
French people (hall be firmly fettled on the
basis of the bell and wisest laws, all Europe
wit be fret." Not one word does he men
t'on of the pr®pofed conquefl—but, concei
ving that under the present government of
France, the laws are not the btjluni ivifeft —
and clJnfeqiiently that freedom cannot be
fciiu exist there as it does in England,
1 where the public felicity and individual
fafety depend on known and not on
the variable caprices of men—he widles a
change, and hopes, that when peace is once
efkblifhed, and France freed from the pre
sent revolutionary tyranny, not only (lie,
but all Euroe will be free; that is, frttd
from the defp'otie, unwarranted interferen
ces, of the terrible jrepubiic, in the domestic
affairs of the refpe&tve nations of Europe.
After having atchieved the conquell of
Italy, made peace with the Emperor, and
guaranteed by solemn treaty, the exigence
( ot the New Italian Republic, he seems to
think of refling from his labours—He does
not incline to ijtep across the channel and o
remin England. The DireSory, however,
it othwwife disposed.
,f Citizen Generaf!" fays Barras the
President, " crown so glorious a career by a j
coitfpieft which the nation owes tt> its out- j
raged dignity. Gol—and by the pnnifh- t
Bient you inflift on the cabinet of London,
ftrilje terror into all governments which shall
dare to doubt the power of a nation of Free
men, of Frenchmen, which are only fy
noniimous terms. Go!—puni(h in London
crimes which have remained unpnnilhed too <
long. Numerous votaries of Liberty wait ,
your arrival. You will find no enemy but ,
vice and wickedness? .They alone support (
that prefidious government. Strike it ,
down !—and let its downfall inform the ,
wotld, that if the French people are the ,
benefjßors of Europe, they are also the a- ]
ve»J;tTB of the rights of Nations I" ;
A ftonHhing flonfenfe ! c
'I he Citizen General is to find no enemy f
but vice a»d -wickedness, supporting the Bri- j
ti(h government. 300,000 men in arms c
for the protection of their property
froim the fraternal embrace—men who have f
much to lose, who dread the contribution- T
ary fcenet of Belgium, Bavaria, Italy, &c. ]
and who prefer the liberty they sow enjoy to
thai, proposed for them by a nettion of freemen
t—t'-hefe, with nineteen twentieths of the
people, are, according to citizen Barras,
a mass of wickedness and vice ! and the par
ricides who, to rife into importance, would
do anything, however villainous and atro
cious, are of course the venerable, estimable i
phalanx of votaries to liberty ! v
Buonaparte had too much good sense not 1
to fe.; the ixceflive fc'ly of all this high- t
flown bombadic (luff—and was silent. I
" Let the downfall of the British Gov- '
ernmeiit announce to the world that the d
French people are the benefactors of Eu- fc
rope !" t
Ihe downfall of other governments h»3 ]
clearly evinced this—it is unnecessary per- }
haps that England (hould know it by expe- v
rience. The excessive exa£lions upon Belgi- e
um—Holland—parts of Germany—ltaly ii
Portugal—end other countries, can fuffici
ently tell what f«rt ofbeneJaMors this l nation
of freemen are ! They know England is t
rich, and that Buonaparte is no bad hand o
at collecting money, ttatues, and pidures e
Hence they want him over there to liberate
the people—not so much from the tyranny
of government as from the gold of which
this freejl but not richtfi nation 011 Earth C
Hands so much in need.
y
ALB AN Y.Feb. 16. a
Fram a Cprrefpondeni in Herbirrer. o
PEELING. t
At Card's Mills, in the town of Fairfield, u
Herkimer county, a duel was lately fought ti
between Mr. Levi Whipple and Mr. Hardy p
ti>e former upwards of 60, and the latter o
much ftort of 50 years of age. The dispute t;
•riginatcd from fame trivial circumstance e
over a friendly bowl ; andfo impetuous were n
their passions, that not haying pistols handy a
they agreed to make use of muskets ! The w
ground being appointed, they repaired to h
it immediately, each armed wish d"Mnlket. p
u.d attended b,y a second. Having agreed b
t
• f I upon the moJk nf figkt-rg fwh'cb wps that
' J tbey should turn b. ck to back, flep off a
certain nun.ter of paces to their refpe&ivc
t llations, come to the right about a»d Jrt)
they proceeded to decide the eonteft : But
though a lucky mijlaie of Mr Whipple or
his second, his picje was only half cocked;
and, fortunately, Mr. Hardy's did not go
off, though (he slashed in the pan ! The fe
„ conds then interfered and dtffuadcd them
from renewingthe combat. Thus we fee that
the caprice of fafhion even in Old age, will
fanflion the unautborifed laws of honour,
and create exceptions t« divine prohibi
tions.
n
e DANBURY, Feb. 5.
1. On Wednefdaylaft Noah Baraum, aged
18, son of Mr. John Barnum of this town,
in falling 3 tree, was accidentally caught
under it, by which means one of hu hips Sc I
• two ribs were broken, his scull fraflured 4
f one of hit arms badly cut by hit ax.—Yet
> hopet are entertained of his recovery.
i Mrs. M'Laughlen consort of the Rev.
: Edward M'Laughlen of North Stamford,
• and daughter of the Rev. Ami Lewis, was
; on Tuesday the ninth ult. delivered of a
male child, and on Thursday following the
space of fifty two hours of another, both of
• which are living and healthy, and the mo
ther is io a convalescent state.
HA RRISBURGH, Feb,-14.
communication.
ACURIOUS STONE MOUI.D
For running musket and rifle bullets, was
found in digging a well, near 30 feet below
the furfact of the earth, at Cox's town, four
miles from this borough, a few days finceJ
It it remarkable to a refledting mind, how
such a curiosity could have been deposited
there, as it lay several feet under a folidrock, 1
thro which the Workmen were obliged to
penetrate, to procure water. A (peftator
observed, that at the time of the flood, as
there were no muflfrtj, he thought it' proba
ble that it was used to run marbles for the
use of Noah's crew.
KNOXVILLE, January 17.
On the 3d inftarit arrived at this place,
from Virginia, part of a company of federal
troops, commanded by Captain William
Preston.
We are informed that on the 26th ultimo,
a duel took place between fCaptain Rofs
Bird and Ensign Larkin J. Dickenfon, of
ficers of the 4th regiment, in which the lat
ter fell-
Reports having been circulated much to
;he injury of Capt. Bird, we are authorised
from a voucher in our poffeflion, signed by
the officers at the place, to fay that thi bu
siness was coudciAed fairly, upon honourable
and equal terms, and such as are cultomary
on finailar oecalions.
SAVANNAH, Feb. 2.
We learn, from Louisville, that a bill
has passed both branches of the legislature,
prohibiting the importation of negroes into
this state j to be ,in operation irt fix months
from its palling, parried in the senate, 14
to 7, and in the house of
in nearly the fame proportion.
CHARLESTON, Feb. j.
Capt. Smith, of rhe (loop Caty, from
New-York, last from Norfolk, informs that
on the 17th of January last, in the latitude
of Currituck Inlet, he spoke the Britifti
vessel of war, Porcupine, bound into the
Chesapeake ; as a very high sea was run
ning, which prevented a boat palling, he '
■ ran under her stern, and was informed by an '
officer that they were J2 days from Eng
land, and that the French government had
allowed Ameriu-a fix months to fettle the '
difputet now fubiifting between the two -
governments, during which American vef- '
feU were not to be captured by their vessels '
of war. | 1
Capt. Smith afterwards went into Nor- '
folk, and the Porcupine had joined Admi- '
ral Vandcput's squadron, lying in l,ynn *
Haven Bay. ' a
t
" L. 1 (
By this day's Mail; t
PITTSBURGH, Feb. 17.
A person of the name of James Watson, '
in company with others, darted from Brewnf- I
ville in a Kentucky boat, to go to Marietta '
At Costards island, two miles below George- '
town, on the Ohio, their boat was (love
by the ice, on the 23d of January, 1798.
Two days after, said Watson dropped down c
dead on the bank of the Island. He was e
buried: and his property, which amounted v
to a conliderable sum, is ia the hands of c
Peter Svvced, on the island. He told Mr. v
Mat. Gillefpie, of Washington county, who
was present when thit fad accident happen- 1
ed him, that he bad a brother living with
in 15 miles of Pittftugh.
Absalom Baird, Esq. is ele£led to fill
the vacancy in the (late legislature, occasi
oned by the resignation of David Achefon,
ef Washington county.
For the Pittsburgh Gaiette.
_ f
Citizens of the Wijlern Country be upon your
guard.,
It has long been fufpefled and believed,
and even partially known, by the friends of E
order and good government in this country, »
that many of you have been grossly imposed I(
upon by certain of your representatives at c '
the feat of government, and that t! e small "
portion of tt'ue and uncoirtipted infomiati
on, which you have been able at this dif- tj
tance to obtain from thence, has been deni- ti
ed or misrepresented by the letters and state- fu
ments which they have transmitted to yon, d
and that the privilege of franking, which
was intended to convey ufeful information, in
has been mod wickedly prostituted to this J- (
pnrpofe. But it would hardly have been c ,
believed, did not the faCl prove the reality at
at of it, that ene of your repreicutatives jr
a the legislature of th» union, at ;hU impor
vc tant crisis, "when all descriptions of citixen:
') are uniting to support the hopor, liberty
)t and independence of tbcij" couritty againil
the intrigues, corruption and violence of *
faithlefs, ambitious and.powerful nation, is.
° j*y means of this secret vehicle, difleminat
tr- mg the principles (jf fed:tion and ilifuuion—-
m thatthishardenedaud malevolent
• t at the present moment, is endeavouring tc
1! leparate and alienate the afftrftions and con
r, lideficc of the people from their government
c " that he .is thargipg our wife, firm and
enlightened President with weakness, and
, even reiterating that charge, reprefercting
him as combining witfi foreign courts for
d the purpose of Overthrowing the present go
i, vernment in France and eftabjifhing royalty
t in its place—iniinuating that the inflrudi-
Ic ous of our envoys extraordinary werefram
!c ed, in contemplation of that event, for the
t purpose of treating with a royal government
and not with one of a republican farm,
. thereby implying that ft is the fault of the
, American adminiftratiou and not of that of
s the French, that our envoys have not been
a properly received—that the President is car
e rying on a secret negociation with the Bri
f tifh court—that the Secretary of State is
- implicated and the mod guilty in Blount's
plot asserting that the Britifli minitter, Mr.
Lifton, v. hose conduct has been uniformly
candid and refpe&ful towards our govern
ment and the people since his arrival in the
United States, was by accident discovered
i to be involved in that plot, and that the dii
r covery was attempted to be concealed by
r i Certa . in m the committee of jnvef
.. ligation.
r He is aifo atteraping to throw a veil over
I j and excuse those enormous and unprovoked
, depredations committed on our commeice
> under the dire&ion of the French govern
ment, and affirming that they arc at present
i exceeded by those of the British. These,
. with other aflertions and insinuations equally
: 'falfe and unrounded, this representative of
the people is endeavouring to impote upon
his conftituenti as truth arid fads: and in or
der that they may have the more extenfivc
circulation, some of his letters are sent un
der cover to the port-master of one post-town
there' to be read and forwarded to another.
Friends of your country and government
lend your aid in dete&ing and expoling this
man: remember that the du>y you owe to
your country is next to that which you owe
to your God. A~N AMERICAN.
%ijc (Stesette.
PHILADELPHIA,
»
FRIDAY EVENING, tF.BRXJART 13.
election.
B. R. MORCAN. ISRAEL.
City 2041 1498
Northern Lib. 441
Southwark 322 7.5
Bnftlcton 347
Blockley It Kings. 96
Germantown 283
Darby, 205 tl2
3735 3945
373 J
Present majority for Israel, ' 210
The returns of three diftrifts of Dela
ware county, are yet wanting. It is cer
tain, however, that Mr. Morgan is
and probably by a majority of about 530.'
Yesterday was the birth-day of Giner
al Washington, who entered the 66th
year of his age. It was observed here by
the flipping in the ha/bor displaying ih.ir
flags and ftreamcrs at fun rife ; at twelve
o'clock federal falntes .were fired on board
the armed brig Rose, capt. Meany, apd the
(hip Wooddrop Sims, cap*. Hodso B# which
were repeated at fun f rt ; a „d jbh evenincr
an elegant ball and supper will be given by
the City Dancing Aflembly at Rickets'.
Circus, in honor of this event, which it is
expefled, will be fully and splendidly at
tended.
Married, on Thursday evening, by the
Right Rev. Bilhop White, Mr. Ralph
P u A COC it, of this City, Merchant, to Mrs.
Bowen, relia of the late John Bowen,
Efij. of the island of Jamaica.
Bache fays the President has declined ac
cepting the invitation to attend the Ball this
evening, and accompanies his information
with abufe—lt is highly probable from this
circumstance, that the President has afled
with propriety.
The following letter from governor Pinck
ney, was communicated by the President
of the United States to Congrefy on
the sth inft. with hismefTage on thefub
jeft (which we published on the follow
ing day. ) As this letter contains more
particulars relative to the circumstance*
in queition, it is now laid before our rea
ders.
LETTER
From Governor Pwcknr , to, the Pre/ident of the
Uuited States.
sra,
HAV E the honor to submit to your confede
ration the fcnclofed affidavit® the
Englifli Ihip Oracabifii, burnt on Tuefdav hft
withm the bar of this harbour by a privateer said
to be billed the Vertitude> commanded by a
captain Jourdain, and belonging to Cape Fran
cois ; alio the capture of the ship Pall*, belong
ing to this port, and the Mary of Savannah. By
an examination of these affidavits, yoH will find
that t> i*fcvas a very glaring and wanton viola
tion of the neutrality of the United States, and
such a*will require their serious attention, sffhe j
distance from this city to the place where the
a&frwat committed, prevented our interfering ,
in time. A3 soon as 1 received intelligence of ,
it from the British confu}, I ordered an armed :
force Irom Fort Johnson to proceed to the Oia- •
cabiJTa. tp pro»e<f* her vi hile wirhin our h irbour 1
and the ju:jfdid\:orial line of the United States, «
n from feiaore, depr<J«tion, or io ulrj but th:
r . ! cuitcr was not aufe 10 get d< wa S; re the ; rji
w is and the pritatetr h »d putfr»,
apdpr .ceeded beyond the tim ct of 'he
' Stares, where (he P*l!a« ant i!ie
iVjry the next dav. A; I am convimH tht-fe
a vi.i'u ion® of* •or neutrally witl in our ha hours
j, ami iijitits emnot b countenances by the French
go"/tT,iment, but are generally bv
ve(Te!s cornuii'honed, which (;ror e»4
contrary 10 their inftru ftipn«, I have c*ns«!er
ei it my duty to tr*nfinit them i« you fjr your
0 lieterni/uutron, an I have requeued the colle
to forward cop es to the proper department
t Thetra e of this city being extremely inipor
-3 tant to the revenue jjf toe United States, and
much exposed irom its font hem Hr nation to
y Crcifers fr vp> Hbc Floridas, Bihamas and Wcft
' I ■ Britt(b as well as French, for they have
r both lately captured a number of our vcileU, I
I conceive it *ouM he proper that a revenue cut
|r ter or at ieiU twenty guns fli juld he equip
- ( ped for the use of th s port, nd for the pr tevH
. : ion of the nrntraliiv of the Unitei Stifes
. iiri our jurifdidioiul l.ne until the establishment
t of a general peace, \yhich I trust will soon take
j lice, and that all our differences with the
' Frynch K'-pablic wijl be and arnica
'' bly a«!jufted.
1 S.r,
. I Your roof* obed ent ferva't,
C .AULfSPIUCKNEY.
October 2&, 1797.
| In GbmrUJipn. •
• # * The Eastern and Southern Mails
arrived at a late hour this day—nothing new.
, No Borton papers received.
' An interview is requested with
" t Fdbius"
; In the Hoofs of Representatives of the
. Unittid States this day, the queition for a-
I greeing to the report of the Committee of
Privileges, which is again ft expelling MefTrs.
Lyon and Grifwold was agreed to, 73 in
the affirmative and 31 againil it—A motion
] was then made for reprimanding them be
fore the House. The previous queition was
: moved for an<J» carried* 48 10 47. Confe
t | quently the main queition was not put.
. The managers of the City Dane
ing /Vffembly give notice that on account of an E
i le«stion to be held on Thursday the 2id inft. tKe-
Ball in honor ot George Washington's birth,
is polioned to Friday the 13d inltant.
Ladi-s and Gentlemen are requested to deliver
1 their Cards of Invitati9n at the door.
. ?eh - 17 ' '
NEW-THEATRE.
On Monday, 26th February, 1795,wi1l be present
ed the last new comedy, called
THE WILL,
Or, a School for Daughters.
To which will be added (not performed these two
years) thefavoritemuficalEntertainment, called
The Children in the Wood.
The doors will be opened at half pad
fire, and the performance begin at half past fix
precilcly.
ft o T I c F.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtrd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great Br'tain, Splnfter,. or her afligns
fr r two thousand five huidred and fixty-twb
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the United Sta'e , was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bouni from Philadelphia to Loudon
in the ysar 179b. The luhfcriher, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury oi
the United States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. $3. iaW6w.
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be acfcotviwudattu with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reafonahle terms, by applying; at No 3
North flrett, between Fiftk aiwi Sixth-Greets
February 13. eod.^t
h'rw-York) ynnuary aa, 179^-
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Prop ictor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by SubfSription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
Br Madami Roland ;
Wife of the Minilier of the interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce ar.d very valuable Hifiorical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions m a few months;) will be cottiprUed i» 2
of 4CO pages each.
They will he printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subfcrip'.ion money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To f rinters, Booksellers, and Athers, who
acquire Subftriptions, the'ufual allowance wiil
be made.
'£jF Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
Room, No. 149, Water street the Printing-
Office y i49, Pearl-flreet*—and at the different
Bookstores in - Also, by William
Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, nd
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia,
As soon as a fufficlent number of Subscribers
.ire obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated.with the ytmoft difpatcb.
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
»t Till
Injurance Company of North America.
1 Fcr Imshranci Dgainlt Firi, on Dwelling.
Hoiifes, Ware-Houfcs, ard othrr Bailjings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) diflant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurance% on hazards of tie (irft
elafs, will be undertaker at a premium of al out i
half per cent, per annum. For extrahazardous (
rifqaes a larger preir ijm will bs required, whith
will vaiy according to eircuniftanees, feidom ex
teedinp one per cent per annum ; but in some in
ftancej, where the property irfuied is not only in
ilftlf extra hazardous, but rendered still. more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous liuiidings and '
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised '
according to eireumftjnees
Ho«l« jnd V\ are Houfrj, the walls and parti '
tions of which'are wholly of (lone or brick, well '
eon/lruar.!, fo'as to b. guarded a- well asnv.y be
againil firts from within, and Icee Itara extra ha
zardous buildings and cec upat;oos in their neig!-..
borhood, will be deemed hazardtus of ik c f ril
rials, and may be infuted to pieirfoll valae.
: A!fo Goods and \TfrahanJ*re, not • an v \
si hazardous kind, in .-«(*» b*ie», r p-i ka<-v
fofircd ip foch hui!Jf*fs. j i an" am unt not rr»
I feeling 4 ouo do!I»m { fc K t if more than thisftni
r required to be infr-red in one tenement, an a>lc:io
? ti >nal prem?om will he rrq ircd, in uroporioii td
s circmnftanfee#.
1 h furan-ts wil! aJfo be /nade on building* a-.d
7 food- extra hazard us. at premium* proportioned
j to th* risque. Bnt i- in •♦.«»t r\(y to arrang* th ff
under particular headt cr cLfl>«, so as to defer he
each--richth neceflT.iry accuracy. £ach cafi muit
therefore be decided upon according to ihe cimm «
llances 2 tending it ; and thefc circurofiancc* wilij
ir. appear from the dt-iLnpticn accorupa
' uy.ng the application,
Bu l.imgs parrly confined of brick or stone,
are p/tf>.raL!e to thufe wholfy wooder. And ia
both cafethe flile of buiHinv, how they areoc
: f™? I ®?' h w the 7 * rc fitted, the ndghborme
bu;Klines, and hour cccupied, are con Operation* to
be taken into view. rtnd with
whether from their nature, or
•from tie manner in which" they are exposed, ether
to commence or to inereafe an cxidenulfire, azd
their iiau liry in such lfra r e to receive damage bv
wet, or by sudden an>J has y removal, w to be sto
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
eamfta»ce« of weight ; and tke premiums must be
proportioned acordingJy.
IH. Jhe fallowing condJtiom arc to b« lader
flood I y ti c pifties. •
If!. rtie nfunocf It'll t'linjinjf Jill tint fiinn
lattu-prcnj Bnj he aid ; hut it 0 all h« deemed efJ
leclua. Irom the time of ftnh payment and acccp
•ance ihtrenf, whethtr the policy be immediately
or not. 3
ad. Infuranee. rs- y be renewed at the e»Fra
tion of the term of the policy, without mfth-Vci
pr"fe» t. an the payment of the oremtum of the re
newed term, the . ■> cumiU c-.« c.ntiruirg the f.,me
as ,hey were nr. -.-rftoort l.yriie Infur r- u-h« time
the orm.r ufuranrt », • „t the payment'
oi t.c j remjum n <ffem»»l to lurh r j'. : an d
if the farty i fWd fuftVrs any rime t* elapse after
the exp i ti&n of the- torm»-r infuranee, h for<- h«
P- 'a fouhe r«n«v.*. I. he i« not inlured
ruin g lueh t.me; nor ean theinfuraDce hcr.-ntw
■ ed w the former pohcy bm hy computing th«
ro a .mc,rc. mcnt of ,he f rum - h .' CJt , ir , tt i n
cf he lormcr in uranre. I I,e i:lfur .
ancc nevertfe.U-f* h, open to treaty for a new
nifurar.ee.
1 Id. If aoy othrri-fur.mce be.ma,!eon thefama.
■ ,pr«; erty ; ,t n-u !be nuie Knows at the t„nc of
' catlo, '-.,f tlur,v "'' <!th<; F®lK7«i»d'eoufud» ap
plication Will be Veil i. r
4th Good, held. ,r trull, or on cnfijrnment,
»ay be infuredas f ith in a fenarate policy ; but
J! I "'+?' '° be con,i ' <crt < i infttted stherviife.
ith. rhi- compa.y will not be liable or acc. im
tabic for any lab or damagepctafioti .Ibyary Icr
dpi uivafion, or by any military or ufatped force,
, °' ptafon °[ an r civil commotion ;or oc-cafi'on
edbf gsnpowd r a<,ua!or-i) nr other thin* of the
like kind kept in th? feuilding, or among;! the pro
pcrty mfured. ( 1
. 6th 'T?.'! l ® ° f E *tHange, Btfnds ar d other Secu-
I r x, ' M ' me r- Bank and oth r pro
miffary Note,, are not included in any infaranc l
nor arc pamting,. -»edal-, jewels, gems, antique
cur.ofit.es or mirrors exceeding the val.e of ,wtD
. y-five dollar, ea.h, to be Confide.-.d a, mfured „n
---mcn tPar t" mH,, i°" d and byfpecK.lagiee
7th. No i,forance will be made for a
tern, than one year, nor for a lorgr term than fe
» JL"m l "iT clloo<3r K to infurc for seven
y.ars, flwH be allowed one year', premium hj way
°"= thirii °' ' y*arj premium (ball
three yearl ' D ma, "" r a "
ft, n'k cn !" s fa ' ,aine<J . b T fire as property in.ured,
(hall be paid in thirty day, iftfr due proof and li.
quid ition thereof, without deduction!
l,, A , <l ' l r i l" Cn l of "!® P ro P CT, y ,0 te injured will
e ixp aed With «ach application, to be made by
a master carpenter and funed by him. as well a,
by th? owner of the building 01 applicant for in
furai ce, and attefled before a Notary or rriocinal
M.g.ftrate, w. „ will certny ] lis kni»le J£ e of th«
parties and their credibhity.
,n H °*/" "Mother BbiUStg,,
ift. Ihe site and polhi „ ; ~e cr ,i, i(l | tll# ,
or rojd on or ntar which the biiilding
lands; its contiguity to water, a„d o,hercir
cumltances relative to the extit,„ui(fcmc»' of fire
i eale of aci ident; nnd jiart cularlv wl.Mher
ar-y and what fire companies arc eilal.'l lhed,and
engine, provided,m the place - ir nrigbbouihoed.
1 1 .' " c ""'fial* »f Which it is f.uilt, wbe
liierof brick, ftoreor wood, and wha: part <if
each, as wrj! as to theoutfitle walljn infideor
partiti. n wall,, a„ d tl.cir rrfpeclive height antl
till knefs ; the flyle of the roo.- and of what
mater ials hov. (ecured by battlements or par
ty wads; what kind »' , lC ef, to tie t, pof the
nou.c and to the chimmes j whether anv -nd
wnat eleflnc rods ; the number and k„,d of
fire p'jees ; and the k.nd of deposit for ashes.
3d. Ihe dimcafions of the Jni'lding ant! how
livided, and the style in « Kich it is finifhed so
-s lo enable indifferent perl'ons to ji.dge in 'vbat
manner It is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
njury; the -ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur.
p.ie .alio an euinute <>f the value of tbehoule
or build ng independent of the ground.
4th. TUfituation with refpta-to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining cr
not, comprehending at lea ft one hundred feet
'I j'J : wl l i " k "' d bu 'ldings are within
that d.llance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or ether wife : whe-
a "y M whit trade or manufa.sWy is car
ried and particularly whether there be ahy
extra hazardous article-: used, or usually depo
nited in the ■house. or within the diftairce afore- '
said, and of whit kind.
Rtfpeainggoods in House., VVarehoufes, Ac.
I A. j eneral defcription'of the buildin" in
wlich they are kept will bcexpefled, (imilar in
refpedls, as tp the daeger from lire, with that
required for Infuranee on the buildings them
leives.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the pood., whether in calks or other packages,
or opened.; and whether displayed in whole
piece, or in the\il'uil form for retailing. And
if t*e goo 's vary materially in kind, a general
eliimare of the value of each kind proposed to
be injured ; but in the lad particular luinute
nef. of defection is not expected.
3. Article, of she following kinds are deem
ed extra ha^ardnus, though in various degrtes,
in what, ver building they may be plared, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, robn, wax, ullow, oil,"
inflammah e Ipirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, colton t
dry good, of an inflammable kind ppened
GUIs, china porcelain, especially un
parked; Looking gljUu/jewelecy ; and all o
titer articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or o ore than commonly liable to injurv bv Aid
den len oval or by moiflure., or particularly
obnoxious to theft on' in alarm of fire.
Letters pofl paid, dir.fted to the Secretary of
the r.card of L*iredlofs, wi 1 ht* duly attended
to. An order For Jofurarict accompanied by the
means or paying the premium, will be imme
>ate)v executed on the premium licing paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
Br order of the Board,
ebi:nezeh hazard, s«v».-
Oficc of the Infuranee Compaiiy of North >
America ; I'kiSti. F.i. i, j 79 8.
Feb.JUST RECEIVEft,
AND TO* SALE, AT
v W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfnnt and Second ftrecta,
( "riot 50 Cc/tijJ
Caufcs qui le font oppofees atix
Frojrc# du c.m.urce, nitre LA FRANCEtt lcs
tTA l's-UNIS de L'AMERIQWE.
Avce lei Moyens de l'acc£lerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Natiottale
dc l'Anglcterre, dc la Trance, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettrea, addrefftet a Monfieurlc Mar
quis be la Fayette. Tradult fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancieo
Membre de la Legislature de la Rlpublique
du MaiTackulTet.
Le Commerce sA U portion la plus irnportante des
(Richeifei Nationales
——LeTridentdt Neptune,cftlc fccptredu Monde.
Limibai.
Or causes that bave been •ppofed to the
PROGRESS of <• OMMERCE botween
FRANCE m:d the UNITED STATU if AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating it ;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, dire&ed t© the Marquis
de la Fatetti.
Tranflatcd(iuto French from the original Eng
hfh Manukn t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber ef the Legislature of MaiTachufetts.
Commerce is the nioil important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
—— Ihe Trident of Neplune is the Sceptre of
the world Lx*iea*.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty xui'.b France may soon
become an objcA of difcufiion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufeluf to those eitiz«n3 of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubjeA, undents various af
pe&s ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furnifhed with the neceflary data, to pdge,of the
•fefulnefsof this tranfadion.
This work is principally diftinguiftied by the
richness of the observations, the pcrfpieuity of the
Uc&s, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn k hcaped up
to the very roof with ufciul produce. It is addrt f
sod ta the unfortunate La Favitte, in letters, |
which fugitive form, the author who could only
devote a Tew weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although aircurnHancis are in many
refpeds different at the present day, from what
•hey were in the year 1790, when these letters
Were written, yet k may be jufily laid, that so ma
ny abialuteand permanent data still remain, that
wie judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lets on that account ; on the contrary, as many ef
the alterations, which have been made, are the re-
Cult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, cVery thing may be from the ef
forts of truth and justice.
LETTER I.
General view of ths obftades,"created in France,
to pi event the extension of commerce, with the
United Statv s-«-Obfcrvations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpofc, uponfome French mano
factjres(a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
againil the quality of certain produ&ions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonri ration of the bad policy of
laying duties an their importation, principally on
provisions in ge?jer*l, and on fait proviiions, and
nih in pa ticular—Confideratiorls on the regulations
of tbp French cu^om-'noufes.
LETTER 11.
Obllacles to the extension of irade with France,
piocecding from circumftanccs and individuals in
the United States—-Proofs that these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern
ment—Hiltoryof the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant y rinciples and
ednfiderations on money and circulation—Causes
of the llagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary condud
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifheson frhisfubjed—
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER HI.
EiTayin the forna <fl tableau, to appraise the im
poiUaon.s into the United Slitetfrom France and Eng
tand unlcd. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furnilhed from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would hiave allonilhrd a me e th.oritl) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kini of tablcawt, uuluckilv as difficult to obtain as
ftiey are muf;h to be defned, arc the only sure guides
the statesman can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We ennot too much admire the apparent ex
adwefs of colonel Swan's calculation*; and although
the propbcfies of Lord Sheffield have already been
contracted by experience, and by fevcrai able pen?,
yet it is cui ious to fee the author of ihe present work,
dispute with him the only ground on wh:ch he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to lupply us with fcveral articles,
which the English aathoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's paJtiaiity ajfett on (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality ojjudgment. # T he result of this calculation
is that in >709, that i« to fay, at a period when arts
and manufaduies did »0t present in France the vast
means and probability of extension which they now
pofTcfa. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would nrft only have the means to supply one
half of any'given ouantity of the produ&ions of France
and k ngland united y butalfoto enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and Wie indurtry
of her inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the expectations of the United States,
>nd particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excell r»t work ot Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta-
Mcau is by no means fuperfluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importations f provifioocand raw materials, is every
where applied ; 2nd it is upon this argument, that
the author cftablifhes his demands to the French go
vernmcnt. for the limited zdmi&on of the produc
tions ot his Country into France
LETTER V..
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
lime—Opinions ot the author on the finances, on the
effeds ot national debt, on circulation, &.C. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrer.gthen in France, thcjnibl c and private credit
as the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the raiferies anfiAg from the public debt in
Europe, are contrasted in the ablest manner, and un
der the most striking lilatior.s, by very cu ious cal*
culations —Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public cxpenfes ir» Maflachu
fetta. In this place the patriotism of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which ajuft national
pride inlpires. The ancient governments of Europe,
fayahe, will iefcrn from us the art »f economv in
recernpenfing the feivices which the country receives.*
Amongjl us it will k 6e fitn y that men are chajtn for places,
and not places fvr men. This letter concludes with a I
general view of the public property, depohted in the
hands as the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination of the defe&s of the commer
cial policy of France with refprd to the United States ;
many of these observations have produced the effeds
for which they twere intended, others still remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
good chart marks the Otoals and racis. The iu Uo*
concludes his worlt, by Axing his attention an his
country, and the great men who have rerdered it il
luftricus; and we »akc- a pltnfure in quoting what he
fays of the present chief of our K°verntnent.
prai r e a man when hee-crcifes a diltinguifhed en
ploymcnt, is conrosn, and miy be taken for flattery ;
but whi.lll he is io private life, it ia the hamage of
fineerity*
Note, page 316 of the work, I
* Les hahitans des ktats-ums, fuivant dam leur
choix le hien public, lc excites par un principe de
reconrv-ailaitce, choiftrent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouveau congres. Ses effortT, pour pre
server le people des intrigues formees par le gouv- |
frnement Anglais contre fa iibertc, le rendirent tres- j
Tufped a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir- Le peuple, ,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un de les
reprefentaris dans le premier congres. De ce nombrt
etoit audi M Samuel Adams, pairiote aufTi intrepide,
qu'infatigable. La revolHtuxi Amcncaine doit beau
coop a la perfevcrance de fes travaux, St afestalens
diftinges. Ceux que M. J»hn Adams a dcveloppea
dans le traitc de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre auffi habile que grand
politique Et dans son ouvrage fur la defenle de la
conltitution Americaine, il a montae toutes lescan
noiiLnces qui torment les vraia jurifeonfultes it lea
hotnmesde loi; connoiflTances neceflairea, pour rem
plir honorablement lcs fondiana de president du fenat
des Eats-unis.
W. Haydon
DeKneator of Drawing—•from London,
(Where be has studied several years under one of
the most eminent masters in that science)
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terras, as vfwaj, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three time*a
week. Likewifa, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
»g, fruit, flowars, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters hirafelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to thofc that em-ploy him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line direded to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, will be immediately attended ta.
January 9. $Zw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothelaft will and teftamentof
William H ysham, deceased, and po/Tef
fion giv<-n immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, Third and Fourth streets, confid
ing ol theho ufc, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ereded, a itaMv, and ather improvements.—
Thehoufe is ao feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is as the fame breadth as the
houfc and 109 fact derp, with a well of Water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with purpp*
in goop repair. The (lable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four hcrfes and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,extNid
ing to Charry Street. 11« central position and the
advantages it poflefTcs with refped ta free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfen withing to possess an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No Bs, Vine
Street—of
ROJERT Hxysham, }
"or > A&ing Eicecutors.
Frantis Dowas Sayrr, j
January II 5
The Subscriber intends to make
application fj>r the tenewal of a Certificate of a Share
io the Bank of the United States,|flandlng in the name
of A. B. No. 6004, dated July 11,1797, the fame
having*been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dee. I.
NOTICE.
ALL p«rfons who have any demands againfl
th. estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpoofl, late of Philadelphia, iri rchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and those who are indebted
to thfc fame, are Jcfired to make immediate
payment, to * •
GEO. DOBSON, I . . a ,
No. 15, So. Third-street. j Aim,n, J tr r
Tantiary 4. dtf
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pinc-Jlrect, near Fifth.
January 29 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—Enquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, 17. diw
j A House in Burlington for Sale.
j r I~'HE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
-L ftofy brick Houfo, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Gardes, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wishes to
sell. For termsapply at No. South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 29. 7©t
/ To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 percl*_*s, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. filiate on the Irifli tra<sfc in the
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
| elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dff
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to iflue pronofals
1 for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, fros*their firft meeting in 1775,t0
the present time.
This work shaH be printed with a new type,
niade for the purpose; and an good paper. It
'will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o£ta
vo) in 6 vols.—cafh to he paid on delivery
It isneedlefs to fay any thing of the merits of
thifc undertaking—th* scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United S?-ates, is fufficicnt to jufti
! fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that
success, which he is certain the enterprize d^ferve*.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. i-'. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in while and t»a\f tierce*
Bautdeaux Brandy
Teney iJJe Wine
Molajjcs
Gtforgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjbead of paint
bruJJies.
N. (s" y. Frazer.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street.
Nov. % dim
Just Published, *~
And to be hid of Mefirs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rica,
Carjr, amd the other pricipil Boekfcllert in tSc
city,price oiw dollar, twinty-fi.e cents,in boards,
New Views or the Origin of the
Tribes .and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d. |
June 10, «< t i
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING' BY SUnSOUPTIOI ,
A NEW AND INT r ft V STI NO WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
\ Containing a detail of the various crimes and mil
dcmeanor«, by which public ar-d private proper
ty, arc, at prefeat, injured and endangered :
Aftd fnggefling remedies for their prevention.
IT A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlcfex, Surry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of We>Amin
ftcr ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a l«irge o&avo, on
an excellent Kngiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bovn4 in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and * half •, although the lait London
edition, on inferior paper aud meanly bound, »
now fold at 'wo dollar* and a half. uon-fub
fcriber* the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may given"by fub
frription, it will be committed to he profs without
delay ; and, birring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
Subscriptions will be thankfully rec<fivrdat
Benjamin Davies's's book-ftoie, No 68, I igh
llreet, and by moR of the other booksellers is »he
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam-
Campbell, and A. Druir.mend, in New-York.
January 31. jawtA
Fleafe and Lots, Bordentown.
nnO B£ SOLD, a handfometwo story Hou'e,
-L with the Lot on which i' is ere#cd, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lor
contains one acre,, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back ftrect. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, fepjrated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II be given as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbranoes,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, redding in Bordentown, near
ihe premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
December 2. / 3awtf
ROSS iff SIMSON7"
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, ami
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal j
300 caflu RICE, and
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
0&. 27. §
To be Exchanged for
British, German, or India Goods,
IN THE. PACKAGE J
A trafl of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland to.
and containing lojcoo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
JTattj ig. §
COLUMBIA
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBHIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpe<fi, returns her fiucere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and afiures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every feranch of ufefol and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in ftieir
refpe&ive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh' Street 1.
June 5th,1797. Jimftf
The fitaation is perfe&ly healthy: and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE, 7?
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. sa, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
again ft Vf ILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizuig the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Coggrefs, and
inftrutfting them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to (jifcover the whole nature and ext.nt
j " of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" stands impeache., and who are the parties and
" aflociatestherei*."
Printed by order of the House of Rebrefentati-ves
December 20 '
French Circulating Library.
' JOSEPH E. G. M De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
meant of becoming perfed in the French Lan
' guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
ftire. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
m town..
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Engli(h and Spam fix Lauguajpes, exeeuceo with ac
curac> and dispatch. Im nov M-
Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-fireei,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now epenmgf for sale, on
p-afoniMe '-rmv Oft 27 —4W
This Day is Publiihed,
BY Med. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
ofiher Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegantty printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the Several States with each other, and with
that of th,e United States: exhibiting in TaM<*,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claflingtogether tbeir most important provisions.
under the Several heads of administration j with
Motes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. antl member of the Congress of tho
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copi s printed on an inferior pa
per, k at 3-4thsof a doHar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be givcil out every Second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and 12—
back of 00.51, South Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eod2w 1
James C. iff Samuel W. Filher. "
at the:x srose,
N0.§13, corner of Arch and Front street. x
HAVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery m trunk#, afferci
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto frnty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafa ditto 51
Ditto Gurrahs
Beng'.l black Taffetice C
4000 pieces Nankeen*, and
Few chells best Hyson Tea
Alft —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —a»d 15 hhds. GlaSs
Ware nflorted, which they wilLdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city. *■
Nov 18 3tawtf
Imported (via New York) on tlie "
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for '
sale by the fubfcrib«r, at N*». 61, Che/nut flrect, P
between Sec<ynd and Third Streets, the follow- 'J
ing articlei . J
Mahar agonies Charconira Doren*
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mufiins
Giliis Bandannoc®
N IJ.US 5c Pe»fu£oes Chafla Romals n
Blue cloth flair ribbon
Mui4MulVhankerckicf6 Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium r
Leflcr Car dim urn Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox. ' a
novemfcer 17 turhs4w t
Valuable Books, t
Just received by the Fai* American from s
London, and now opening and felling by l '
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. !j,
CATALOGUES b
Of the newly impertedbooks maybe had gra- ' f|
tis. Thefc added to O's usual ltock, form an a
extensive and elegant colle&ioa of ancient and v
modern literature, and ooroprife books in fu*-
dry languages and on various fubje&». | a
This Day u
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely i P
bound and lettered, and embellished with an u
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.) 1
The Looking Glass for the Mind, j
OR,
The Juvenile Frijknd;
Being a valuiole colleilion of intcreffing and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to r
young minrls the happy eft'e&s of youthful in
nocence and filial affeilion—ln v profe and verlit. j]
Defigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration. A
In the Press, and will be speedily pibliflietf, u
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education. t!
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will si
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be t
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de- si
liverert to Subscribers neatly bound, lettered and
embellished with an elegant frontifpiece, for o*>e f(
dollar. p
January 3. 3 t. -
For s.-tLk, mt '
William Priestman,
U9, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf t
tom-house, ]
A large qffbrtment of
Gold and tilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair Piftols, by Knubley, Charing
Croft
Reflecting Teleicope, by Ribright
tfox of patent Medicines 4
60 lb. Scotch Thread J
Small collection of valuable Books, and
- Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the 1
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa- 2
tented by Perc iva! Butler, in 1787.
Also, j 4 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watches bought.
January 4. dyt 1
School Books and Stationary. ]
W. YOU NG,
No. 5«, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
ment of English, French, Latin and Gre»k \
l-SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, finch elementary books 1
jon Science, as are generally read in the academies £
1 and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUB LISHF.D,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the fiith edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards, 1
{heathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks, c
blank Books, Wax, Wa'fers, and other articles, of P
the best quality, used in the counting house, or 1
public office, 1
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colled ion of v
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to'be had "
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —Jaw6w 1
Yellow Fever and Pestilential f!
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. oAavo. 1
By William Young, Boolfellcr, tl
No. sa, Second ftrect, the corner of Chefnut llree*, tl
(Price, in boards 87 la Cents) \
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium b
Paper, cl
A V IEW »
Of the Science of Life ; n
On the principles eftabliftied in the elements T
of Medicine, of the late celebrated el
JOHN BROWN, M. D. le
With an attempt to corre& some important er- m
rors of that work, and cases in ilfuftration, chiaf
ly from the records of their practice, at . m
the General HofpitJll at Calcutta,
Br William Yates & Chas. Maclean. tr
To which isfubjoined, a Treatise on the a&ion m
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- gr
tion lor the cure of diseases of indirect debility. 1#;
Andadifiertatipn onthe sources of Epiderairand, cl
Peftilentialdifeal'es; in whichisattemptedtoprove di
by a numerous induction of - >«
ver arlfe from contagion, but are alu ays produ
ced by certain slates, or certain vjciflitudes of te:
the atmosphere, by .Charles Macl*an, of ~~
Calcutta. f
nor. 2i»
Wanted\ to Hire, ,
A Large anH convenient HOUSE, in or near V
the cetitreof the city—rfor which a generous A
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on L<
more for a longer term. Inquire of ths Printer. j u
Q3- 17* eotf
Tin Plates, co
FOR SALE BY Fl
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, umr Fifth ftrect.
December tS. iw
The cargo of the Weft-InJian from
Jamaica,landingatS»ttth Street wharf,
136 hhdi* aod 300 barrels choice Coffee
98 MHd* of prime Sagar
29 llrids, of Rum.
* Ftr file By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFtRS FOR. SAL
500,000 I.bs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A auamityof Hifp»niola Cocoa
Ked PortWintin pipes aod hogsheads •
Madeira do. in pipea
February 6 d2weotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a conflderable lime on the
miflion in the country parts of the ftateof Pcnn-
Jylvania, gives this notice to any exttafive pro
prietor of land within the said Hate, and border
ing on either the Potonuck, Sufquehanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlement with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered- —■
For further information, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Willing'* Alley.
Feb. 8. «,t
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offer * for file the property now
•ccapied hy him is the town of Wcft-Cheftcr
and county ofChefter. It confiflsof a well fipiihed
two flory flone house, 43 feet front, by abost 40
deep, lour reoms on a fl»or, with cieled garrets,
and a cellar under the wholo—A very pood ft one
•Stable and Coach house—And a let of Ground, ;
; three perehc* wide, by twenty perches depth.
1 he house Hands on the Main flreet; it* lit nation
is high and very handsome ; the lot extends tp a
back flreer, on which thf stable and coach house
fland. The lot is in a date of cultivation,
and there is in the yard a,pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, be«#n known t« fail.
Theutuatioa of the town is high, and remark*
I ably healthy—the country tround it, fertile and
I beautiful.
The terras of payment will made to suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm th, at 110.
149, bouth Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
, February 5. mwftf
City Commiflioner's Office,
January \%th, 179&
FOR THE IN FORMATION oF TH F. CITIZENS.
r T" , HE following arrangement is made by the
X said commiffionera, for cleansing the
streets, See.
Diflr»& No. 1. —From the northjide of Vine
flreet, to the south fide of Mulberry- flrect; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide .of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CVefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce flreet, to be under the
iuperintendance of Jof'eph ClaypooJe.
4. From the Rorth fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar flreet, to be undfr the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
OVAL BOTTLES? ~
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quaati \
tyoi Claret Bottles of & right size—For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSET.
January n 3taw6w»
Recently Publijhedy
And just imported from England, by Wullia,w
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Mqrc «n J. Ruees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two clofcly
printed volume* 4 n Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illustrations of Prophecy :
Wi which are elucidated many predi&ions, which
occur in (faiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evaa
gelifls, and book of Revelation ; which arc tho't
t« foretell amonj; oth.r great events, a revolution
in France, tavora! Ie to the interefls of mnnkiftd,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclesi
astical tyranny, the downfall of civil defpotifrn,
and the subsequent laelioration of the (lata of the
world : togetfeer with
A large collision of Ext raffs,
Interspersed through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mcde, Sir Isaac Ncwtom,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lou th,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. fiemy More, Bengelius,
Dr. John Owen, Danbux,
Dr. Creflener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, Lowman,
Bremus, Bishop Newton, a nd
Bilhop Chandler, Bilhop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of ia
this work, aad numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a conflderable number of fa&s or ob
ftrvations on the symbolic language of prophecy
the authenticity, uses, and obfeurity of the apo
eslypfe, and the genuineqefs of the Hebrew pro
phet; on the rapid corruption of chriftiaiiity ia
.the fourth century ; on the difperlion andreflora
tion of the Jews, the hiltory of the falfc Messiah*
who have appeared among them, and the r.afons
in support of the conjedure that the Afghans are
the dstcendanu of the ten tribes ; on the rajht of
rtfiftauce to oppreSon; on tKe irruptions o"f th.
northern nations, aad the cause* of the decline and
fall of the lonian empire; on the customs of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ■ on
the conquests of those nations, and thofeof'the
Turks ; on the ufurpationof the Mamalakes, and
th« past history and prefect (late of Eoypt; on
the charafler and coodud of C»nftantine! Jultioi
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV j on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
cline of literature ; on ths rapid rife of the Frcr.ch
monarchy, and the causes of its fall; os the iu
confiftencies in the political chambers of bilhop*
Newton and Hurd j on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
eflias whichehriftianity has produced in favor of
learningtnd aivil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eflablilhment of equal governments.
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in thef; volumes, those whoare-
Interested in the fubjeit will, it is prefixed, wifli
toperufe or confultthem, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from »
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a:
Ml if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than are easily accessible to anv one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
ix any one library in the world They are fer
nilhed with indexes, aod a co ( ious table of con
tenc i s ' Jan —2aW2w
Chocolate and Mustard,
. rf a superior quality manufaflsred,
GINGER and reppev, ground ; flielled «r
pearl Bjrley ; Philadelphia Porter, Bee.,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton ai d Burton Ale •
London PorSer j red. Port and Lisbon Wine)
fulUble for exportation or home confi;mp«io».
The higheil piitegiven for Mustard Secd.
Also for fate, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizen, a variety of colors; a bale of
Shawl*, &c, for faje by
JOHN HA WORTH,
Ne. fouth Fiom-ilrect,
*«■»■ *7-