f
- - S;
% alette *mil litter States, Philadelphia
I
• By Tohn Ward Fenno, N c- iio Cbefnut Street.
7\umbzr 1898J PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 17, 179$- [VCLVMEJLIV.
c3= The Subscribers to this Ga- -
aette at Germantown, to whom,
owing to recent disastrous events)
«nti
heir papers may, not be particularly «,i
iirectcd, wiU be furnifhed with them "
m t^ie >0 '' 111 ryil
Oermantovvp, whither an extra «»
lumber, **%§ will con-
be sent. 8
jJJ" Remote Subscribers for this Ga
jette are requested to forward pr. post,
the arrearages due from them refpettive
"v. Postmasters who may have recciv
:d fvfjjfcriptions are earpeftty defred to
•emit the lame. At this interesting and 1
diftrefling crifisf, attention to this notice 3
wilt peculiarly oblige the Editor. i
POSfToFFIGE.
Philadelphia, September 26.
Mail for Nev-Catlle, Caßtwell bridge,
'D'ick creek, Dover, Frederica, Mils .rd,
George town and Dailbbroiigh, Deform ;
Trop a'nd Snowhill, Maryland, Horn Town,
Accomack-court-houfe, and Northampton coHrt
house, Virginia ; will lit clcfed at thfr office ev
ery Monday, Wedcefnav amlFriday at half past
eijjht o'clock, A. *yl. unt.l ill day oh April,
1799*
ROBERT PATTON.
September 26 1 **
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia Sept«jtiber 11% 179^*
The public is hereby informed, that
r.n Office of D=pofit and Discount will be opened
on Monday next, at 'lie house lately occupied by jb;
S(i.MO-.i,!<:CßUi)tT, near the Marker House in
derma;,town—where the bufincfi of this Institu
tion wwl bi ttanti&ed during ' the-'; continuance o«
the malisni.ir.t f :virnotv r-revailinginPhiladelphia.
HENRY KUKL, AJJijlant Cfjbi»r.
September 2 2 _ d c
Wanted ; aPerfon wi
WHO will coil'raft to supply the Marine f"
Corps, »itl) ratios'. &c. Apply to cq
iJ\V. W. Burrowes, c 0
Major CdmimmdMt of the Marine Corps.
Sept 20 t h
■ Wanted to purchaje.
\ PPROVF.D bills on Amsterdam, for which ar
J\. cash will be gi ;en at the rate of thirtv few
ven cents per Guilder, Apply to the Cashier of pr
the Bank of the U lifted States. so
September 22d. ??q8- c -
For Sale. ki
THE SußScaiaSß. intending to decline the ( J'
DR.UO BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the "
whole Stock of 1 '
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, PJ
*- *1 he shop » elegant; commn<fl«n». and foffici-
eitly known f or tiie er.tenfive business cone in the '
wholesale and retail line ; the situation «qual to
any in the city, being at the col ner of Walnut and
Second (Ircets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, W ill he fold, as will beO: suit the purchaser. P
Ths t' rtns may be known, by applying to «
™ JAMES MOORE, jun. o
Who has For Sale, 11
We!)' calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, -about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and RedCed r frame, ar>d remarkably
{lout, of an easy draught »f water, r:gging in
good order.
The Sally, about.3o tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
0- All persons indebted to the late firm ol
Goldtl>T*ait 15 s , IV. B Goldtbivait, Gctj~
t bin ait ty ilitore, oe the fuhferi ier, are earneilly
requested t« make fpeefly payment to
JAMES MOORE, JON.
augu't 3
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE dubferiber, encouraged by the advice
of his friends, oifers his fcrvice to the pub
lic as a Ship and Infui ance Broker. H« pro
poses to bny and fell vcltels and every thing re
lating thereto —assist inafttrs of velfels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cuitom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inl'ur
ance and all other inereantile accownts, and have
on hind theoecefiary UUnks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, ind
information given in general mercantile matters
Froai a knowledge gained by long experience
of every hranc-fo of business he hopes to be ufe-.
ful to those who p'.eafe to favor him with thG ir
commands, j SJMUHL EMMRT.
Philadelphia anguft 14th, 170?!. §
City Commissioners' Office,
AUGU3T 30, 1798.
TN purfu-ance of an ordinance of the SeJeil and
Common Councils, paffedtheiid day of May
179 3,
l*ropofa!sin writing will be received by the City
Comn.iflio»?rs for one month from th« firft of Sep
itJnibcr next, for letting to rent oa leafie* for one
year, to co.nmence the tird dAy of januajy rwxt,
the following public property of the city—
The wtafrf ar d lauding on Vine llreot,
t AUo on Saffafras,
Jvlulberry,
And High jtreef*.
Chei'nut. VV;lnntftreets, Drawbridge, witl
the Scale and Fjfli houses, Spruce, Pin« and Cedar
llrce-s. **
I I.e C«llar~uTr3cr the City Hall.
The nßcrfl at Ferry on Schuylkill
with the Jo's cor.tig«ous thereto (except so much
thereof as (hill be occupied by any buildings erec
tei! for the ufc of the Colleiflorof the Tolls, or be
ueeciTiry for the toll gates.)
A Oited meeting o! the City Commissioners will
Ve hel l at the City Hallevary Tuesday morning . t
tctro'clo fc, during the prefert epidemic corm
ro~~BE~TKf 9
And immediate possession given ;
A I.argc conve ne:)#,' well linifhed house, No
1 2«j Iligh-llrec-i) 1 'i.Jy occupied by Doc
w Wiftar, with Co>' h »onf: and Stables
Inquire of titllUM SHE J Ft',
iVj. 163, Big/^Jlreet.
jt»!y 31 ' }
I
Public Notice is hereby Given, .
THAT Proposals undsr felled covers, will be
reecived on the behalf as t'ae United St:te«
' until the twentieth diy of Oftober nisxt, by Jo At v
nailua Jackson, £fq, at Bittno, MafliehuiVtts, aj,
Tench Francis, £l^. PhiUJe'ph:.,, pennfytva- tbi
013, and John Swapn, £fq. at Baltimore, Ma
-1 ryland, I'cr ftipplying the following articles "of
I cloath.ug, for tie army of the Uiii'.ed Slates, VV
vii. whei
FOR INFANTRY. = d 0
8,448 Hat,, • J, n f a tl
JO4 Serjeant Coats mi(l
504 ditto veils c;l f es
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls inlal
' 1,008 ditto do. linen ditto i nvct
3,016 ditto fhirtj 10-w j
264 Musicians coats perft.
7,680 Privates coateS tide
0 7,944 ditto veils "nj;
1 15,888 ditto woollen overalls isli>
15,888 dit'o linen ditto and
31,776 ditto shirts ws "
33,792 pairs 01 Socks ''/ e
r 33'7^ 1 P airs Shoes D ?'
8,448 Uocksof bUck leather \ "
8,448 flock c asps
8,448 blanket*.
Tien
FOR CAVALRY. attc
6 Malicians coats
1 > 26 Serjeant coats
r . 26 ditto vefii ' F
104 ditto shirts • fa
(t 348 Privates coats - ,j
,1 154 ditto veils
' ,416 ditto shirts .
760 pair of Leather breeches ' Vl |,
760 pair of llockings l ian
760 pair of boot* l ollj
38c Stocks of black leattwr * p Qr
380 ' < tfrr
f Blankets. uic:
lQSEvery article shall be made of materials, j
equally good, and in form, or falhion, conform- tier
''' jbly to patterns for the faree, lealed with the Jay
,n fcal of the \Var-Offi«e, and which will be de- \
" posited with the several gentlemen, empowered this
to receive the piopofjls, as above mentioned. Mr
ad. Sworn lnfpeftois shall be appointed on by
the part of the United States, to examine and
determiec upon the several articles atorefaid, l b e
when the fatne shall be ready for delivery, with the
ne full power to rejeft'every article, which shall not
equal, in goodness of materials, or to be made
conf-rmably to, the fafhion of the standard pat- j
tern for the fame ; and no allowance fkall be
s " made, for any article whu-h fkall he rejefted by
tham, for the causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals muftfptcify the number of
ch articles, and their kinds, which the party is
fe- willing to fumifo, together with, the lowest
of prices for immediate payment in money, iih! al
io tke prices, on theioagert term, or terms of I
credit. wo
One third of each, and every of the several t'o
kinds of the above artitles, to be delivered on _j
the fifteenth day of December, one third on q
hj the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining Q
third on the firlt day of March next; and the t j, (
public will not be confideredas bound to receive t^(
any qf the aforefaid ai tides ofcloathing, uhich fl
he " ,a " " ot reatl y ,or mfpeflion, and deliver)-,
t0 at the periods agreed upon. an
ln( j 4th. The eloathing aforefaid will he received fes
he in the several slates, at the places, and in the
xr. proportions folloveing, viz. One third part of i' cr
the whole at Springfield, Mafi'achuletts, one p]j
other third at Philadelphia, state of Penniylva- p c
nia, or at Laralierton, state of New-Jersey, and
on* third at Baltimore, Maryland.
sth. No contract wi:! be for a less «-
Vp number of ejeh of the a'forrfaid articles of
' c loathing, than is requisite for a company, viz_ T
" FOR THE CAVALRY. J
A Serjeant Coats fu
ibly 4 ditto veils
, ; n 16 ditto fhir;s
1 Musician Coat cc
:i q 58 Private coats tc
' 59 ditto veits b ,
' 236 ditto shirts te
IZ 63 flocks
7 jUy 63 flock clafps_ tl
Ij6 pair of leather breeches n
f 126 pair of stockings n
5 126 pair of boots ai
FOR THE INFANTRY. b
vice 70 Hats -
>ub- 4 Serjeant coats
pro- 4 ditto vefls
: re- 8 dittu woollen overalls 5
hers g ditto linen ditto 1
use, 16 (jitto shirts 5
ifur- a Musicians coats
save 64 Private coats
66 ditto veils
ind i 3l ditto woolen overalls
tters ditto linen ditto,
ence ditto Shirts
use- 28a pair of Socks
hair 280 pair of Shoes,
;o Stocks,
70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets.
JAMES
j Secretary ef W*r.
w War Department, \
21U Sept. 1798. )
City - ——
Sep Weft-Indian from Madeira.
: one
CCj" Those Gentlemen who have Wines
on hoard the Weft-Indian are informed file is
now discharging at Sonth'-flreet Wharf, are l'o
licited to fialten down their permits, the Veffcl
bung immediately wanted, Peter Bight.
witl Who wants to Purchase,
"d jr 100 Barrels of gcod Prime or Mess Beef
100 i tto Pork
•Ikill 7 or l ' ltto ® ne F!°' jr
u '", lc [. 4 or jcoo bushels Indian Corn.
erec- LANDING
or be From the IVesl-Jndian,
A choice parcel of Phelp*s old particular
' swi!l Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
n «' c august is s lot
01m H
0- Wanted —A situation in aPub
; lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
No by a peifon rt-gularly brought up to the Mcr-
Dor- cantile and Inlitrnnec bufiatis in Londou, he has
5 lately been a voyage from hence to the Weu-In
dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended,
ret- —Please to enquire at the Printer's.
J august xi
1 -
HAPPY DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure fir tbat alarmir* and the a 'ful Diftdtr
The Yellow Fefcer> "VIJ
Am toe!I as irty utker danrrnus f>v rid fe ver % fver and
and other iwettratc and axnpHcatel Jifeaftt, by i . 1^ 13
the use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WEI L fcnown and patented iiiK.igiaad,France,
Poland, and all theeapiti! cities in Europe, W^Q
where the fnoft aftomftiiug cure? have been elfiiß- requi
ed on persons judgeci incurable by all physicians. _ cC j-
In a Treatise printed in London, on the proprrties {
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D. late Che- w -jj
mist, to his Majesty, there are stated two hundred are n
cases, where this mod valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in all kind of fevers y pleurisy, bloody JJux,
inveratc rbcumatifms, fchtica y apoplexy, patalyjie, yel
low jaundice, ringworm, •wotms in children and in £ roim
perfoas, ivhitet, chronical headaftd flcmacb aches, tk'pa
tick and nepbretical or Jlone cholic, the iir.gs fcuroy ay)
and the moji inveterate and complicated venereal i*if.safe, lit '
is li Ice wile the best preparative for the lmall pox
And measles ; ol the greatcft utility lor young as
wcllas lor elder ladies a*t the critical epoch of their
life. The efficacy of this powder in («veral of the fmalj
above been dUiovered by chance, and aIK | \
so it has been in the yellorv fiver lad year, by Mr. forth
Mahy, who cured several by admiaifteririg only nq
tzuo of the said powders, and loft not a finglp pa
tient which he uadertook to'cure. as proved and
atteiled by the here annexed certificates, w.hofe orl
ginal may be fcen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella fi>ob > r
AV ijr, corner of Cbcfaut and Pwrtbftrecti, the O'.;- I
fy place tvh re these powder* are to ba had, with ic
proper dirc<ftior.s for the use of them.—l'rUetiof 2:
tto'.hrs. 1 c;
Tlie ufefulnefs and certainty of tin. remedy lie- , ,
ing so great for so many dangerous dtforders, aey jJ
person wilhingto be provided, with thof: powdci-s,
will please to apply v ry soon, as tht quantity at
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtlul if for a q
leug time, or if ever any othergeuviae w.fl be iin
ported, thu£»u ec .iMatic.-/ <.. bar- *
Thrjnyenlof, in Earepe, and never i.iring com; 1-
nicated to, or d:fcovered Hy any othjr person.
N. B In tha yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der mull be taken tlu lecond, or at i-.uc the third
day- 21
Vie the fubferibers, durirg the late sickness in
i this city, having taken the yjDow fever, applied to
Mr. Mahy for hi 3 medical assistance, we do here
by certiiy, that by a certain powder, cal'ed the a
| Poudre Ut.ijue, we were perfectly recovered front ~ IJ
t the Aid fatal sickness, aud from an experience of
! the happy effects of tbe above most valuable medi
cine, confWer it our duty to make the fame known,
\ for the. benefic of our fellow citi2ens.
Margaret Jones,
Mylus O'Connor,
JelTe Turner,
Chriilen Rebecca Dow, Co:
Catberin *pple,
f Ann Grover,
> William Bills,
t David Williams, carpenter, A I
William T. Donation, mall-maker,
f, Mr. Mahy's well known Plailler, for atlkind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
-1 tion, No. 131, Ciiefnut ftrset.
, augu* 8 aawtf j
' Q EVr-R-iL very elegant for Sum
> O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
: the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
th£ lots will be made to suit the puichafers. — f~
1 These fituaiions are eoniulered in pci.c!' health V
» beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city, erj
and the road known to be fafe and good at all th(
Tealons of the year. The title indisputable—A Br
e flan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub- on
'f i'criber, who will make known the terms on ap- ab'
e plication to him at his office No. J24 South an
'■ Fourth Street. de
d ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. bo
may 2. _■ stUwtf co'
■f John Haines Sff VVm. Jonesf
1 IJ>£G leave to inform theirfriends and the public,
1.) that they have commenced aCo partnerftip tu ,
in th* SADDLING BUSINESS, wliidk will in ba
futitrebe satfifcdon nnder the firm of ,1
HAINES (sf JONES, pi,
n Market ftre'et, No. 132, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at least th
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in bv
buQnefj, th ir determination to serve ofl the bfft f,j.
terms, anil their known attachment as Native A
mericans to the Government and Csnftitution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
mentof a generous public. Although, they can- as]
riot boafl; of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that thoir manufactureihal
be iuferior to none in this city.
June 26# ' tatjistf
OX BEEF. m
ICO Barrels ) of Beef of best quality, put to
jo half Barrels sup with carefor longvoyagts. a
ico Barrels of Conne&icut Pork. h<
to Barrels of Conneilicijt Tongues. is
WINES. "i
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port 11
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Cifks of Lilbon *
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR, _
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham MtiftaH.
For Sale by
John Skyrin, "
Landenbcrger s Wbarf.
may 4 e _
James C. & Saml.' IV. Fijher,
No. 13 Arch-J>tr r et,
Have Jov Sale
ne, 200 Calks best refined Salt I'etre
Best London Window Glass from 10 by 2 tc
V" 12 by 10
Ditto Glal's Ware in Calks a.Torted canfiftnip c
of pint and half-piiu Tumblers, Wine i
GlafTcs, Goidets, &c.
A L SO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons.
June 27 ?awtt
CALfiOR Oil,
Is much wanted ; Those who have
jlar it to dispose of will find a ready fait; '
>t by applying to any of the Apotheca- j
ries.
1 1
-go', Cs* A Quarterly Meeting of the
let-- Carpenter's Company will be held at their
hi* Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock.
-In- JOSEPH WORRELL,
ied > War,'en. j
oflobcr 11.
■~ - 1
ADVERTISEMENT.
_ and
WHEREAS Jam EJ CO. htc o!
Che tit 7 of Pfriladelpiua, r.wrrhants, bavt
alligucd ovef all their cffcis, real, peffpaal and
mixed, to the liibft.fibers, for tie bcticftt of all Ytcl
their creditor-, "w 1.0 i v .ail fuWc?lbc ih»- said
f gn Utte.
merit \vithin fix moaths from th«
NO IICK \& HERKfcY GIVtN, t« c
wlof are indebted to th: laid efface, tliat they arc
required to make immediate' payment of their rcl
pedive accounts, to the Afli jnees, at theij office,
No. 62, Dock P.rCet, In failure "wkereol adiont
w ill h< instituted for the recovery of such debts ay
are not discharged accordingly. Q n
Jofm Tramts,
John IVqJiiington, Affi
"James 7ay lor, q
Cornelius Cotnegys J v T] *
asgust f8 mwfnD
~TO 9£ SOLD, r
• r ~P , HE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY
i who has ten years to serve. He has had the po;r
small pox and is a&ive, hearty
' and fit for houfewcrk in town or country, lor oftl
• further informatioh, enquire i f the printer. i Cit>
r .gqgtfc 4 ; ; coui
i Fdu SALE, gro '
For Sale»at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut flreet Wharf, <
» 195 cailts of nail? afiortcd nlai
» 10 bales et tail caovafs, from No. i to 3
5 3 calks yellow , )riv
15 tierces bottled pqrter, 6to 14 (inv. each
>• London puticulai ) Will£B
» India market y c
1 'Tenertffedo. in Hogflteadsand jiip
a OU Port do in
. JEniptir vlarit beiLtles
16 cafe* of Gingliim*, DimttW'i ISoSi'.aetj &c.
aflbrted for the Weft-India inji kct i
-4, l"o, and 9 inch cablesaad LO coils of cordage nc{
j Writing fiates, ink Aands aid preffet or
20 puncheons Jamaica rum "vii
I bale ffcaming twine hc<
160 bundles iheat ing paper _ tin
° Nicklin v_s* Griffith. „ B
ie april 7 tuth&f.tf
Bengal Goods,
[. CONSISTING GF
n, BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Ceffas Maharazgungy
Chintz GuzziHas. Tookereys i ni
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins ( .
Long Drawers t0
Coaafj Sugars iii bag 9, fit for tlie European aiarkets r< _
ALSO) yy
Carolina Indigo „ r
Coffee in hoglheads - a j
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira >
WINF.
0 f For Sale, en reafonablt terms, by
c- John Ctaig,
No? la, Dock-Ureet.
July I 4 mwstf
m To be Sold, at private Sale, g,
1 ; A Plantation and Ti ait of Land ti
th to wnfibiip, ia thecounty of Mottgom- 01
y, ery, about. 15 miles from Philadelphia, and ou to
all the public road leading from Plymouth by the ta
■A Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfham, and abou;
ib- one tjtuner of a mile from said tavern, all tc
ip- about the fame distance from the Skippack roa R
ith antl about the fjrr.e di'tance from the late refi q
dence of James Morris esq. decealed. It : _
bounded hy lands of Anthony Morris ifq. Ja
cob Reiff and Detwciler. About tfH acre 9an
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 a' eui j
' der cWver, and about 35 acres are well t;ir.ocred
h-C, The buildings on Ihe above farm csufift of a .
3 jP two story ftofle a large ltont
barn and (tone fprrng-houle. Thirei; alio or v
tbe premifci a ydung orchard of about 150 a? 0
plf-trees. > w
he 'i'his farm great advantages of water, as 13
aft there is an excellent never-failing stream paffinf
in by the house and barn, in such a manner a« t
fiipply the fame as well as every field with a lc. at
A " ficiertf •qaar.tity. _ ai
The fprlrtg over which the spring-house i; II
£ e * built, is excellent water, and is alf> vefy Rear tt
and convenient to the dwelling hi>u!"e. r<
The filiation of this place is heatlhy and in? oi
,° good neighborhood, and is near to several dd «
f'erent places of worlbip, and within the dit d
f taiice of half a mde from two grift, and saw .
mills, ?lfo hear time-kilnt.
This'fartn will he fold together or divided in
put to two'parts, as may suit the pnrcbaftrs. Al(c
jes. a two-ltorv ftondhotile with a barn and carriage v
house and lot of land situate on Chelnut-hill. I
is a very high and hsalthy situation, and com- t
mands a very extensive and beaii'iful prolpect -
PolVeflion of part of the house inay be hid im
mediately.
For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water-street Philadelphia, nr to
lent CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK,
on Cb:snut-Hill.
Chefatit-hill, a«gnft 14th, 1798. aawtr |
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removed toGer
mantown, —wh«re the bulinefs will be tranfa&ed '
to-morrow, in the Union Schi.ol House.
f. JONATHAN SMI TH, Calhier. !
f fptpmher 4 §
N'n *f~i7c E.
Bank of North America,
jitigujl l&fbi 1 798-
r T _I HOSF. prrf»n-i who Uavc Notcfroi Bills to pay
Itc X at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will he put under a fealcd
Imp cover directed to the refpeitiv.' payer and lodged
fine in the Poll Office evtry Monday uliiil tlie return
of the citizens.
RICHARD H ELLS, Caji.it •.
'lan- aug. 39 dtr
' SOUTHWARK.
Oflo}er 8, 1795.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, That the Commifiioners of
[ale tl*e Di ft rift of Scuthwark have removed
their Hall to the usual place, commonly
known by the name ot James Litle'f School.
Honfc, in conftqtience #f the rapid deebne
1 of the Epidemic Fever, especially in tie
. vicinity thereof.
~ r By orl r of th: Board of Comrriffioner
ock - Wm. LIis'NARD, President.
Attest,
1 William I'kKRCSt, Ckrk,pro tern.
October 9 it
This Day is Publiftied,
ANDFORSALEEYJ.FIX NO, t ig,CH ISNU T-J-> a SIT
AN ADDRESS
7 o the People of MarylandU
jj ON the origin, and prelrnt ftj'j of
French «ggrr!lior., with » lketeh of the infaaioUf
attempts te degrade the Government of the United
State*, and form. rejections on the proeeedings
in Corgrefs; written the last of April in the pre
!"ent year, by a Member of the Houle of Reprefin
t at ivas 5 iunr 11
ii To be Soldy at Pnbac Sale,
11 On tfia Premffes,
On Turf day the 23 d day of Oiijbtr, 1798, at
half paji two o'clock, in the afternoon,
s Several very elegant Situations for
SUMMER RETREATS,
v Three ail lan half mile* from the (_'i urt h >pfe rear
Frankl'ord road, being prn of the fubferibets
eiate.
{ These situations arc considered in
k point of health, beauty an& eifgar.ee. equal to su*
[ the city*; commanding a very ix<tn;"ive view
or ! of the Delaware, Mie (hipping in the harbi ur, the
! City, >I-rrowggU,Frank!ord, and fcveral dTegane
= country feat<\
Any person desirous of viewing tl.e
g.ound*, v\i!! plcafeapply tq HF.XRV RALXL*
ortthe premif-s, or to the fubferibtr, at Mr. Rich
ardct-S ccffVe house, Gernjantown.
The ttrms, which Will be easy, will bs
made fotiown at the time. 01 fide.
Sliould ihc weather prcve bad on the a
hove mentioned day the frit will take place on the
/lext fair day, at the fiine ftour.
" W. MACPJIER SO N.
October 9. cftijO
Pennsylvania Hospital,
,«mo; r, i- ? 8.
W. fyTQ pjrfo* with an dii .uft, he
1 M admitted into this house ; it is tlverefpre e:ir
ige neftly fecommendci ta the citizfns, not try fcnJ
or ! ring any such patient to the g*rr, who is til
■•vith the prevailing (ever. Several perfous hnvi:i£
been lent here improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution.
, %£s£&} «"«»
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from t!»e Guard House in New.
Caille, this morning, Bowdin. a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
Stat. » He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair completion, light hair, hjue eyes,
born in England, and by trade a Brickl ycr. Prisr
l to tie jth of June, the date of his enlhttnsnt, he
resided in Philadelphia, where if is probable htf
will endeavour to go. Any pcrlon who will ap
prehend tlit said deserter, and secure him in any
• jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to
the above reward.
F. WHARfON, Capt. Marines.
New Caftre,o<sl 8.
t . TEN DOLLARS REWARD. *
t f T'ViiSERrED from my Detachment at Bcrdcn
_ XJ town this diy, a Marine, by name George
Redman, a Native of lrelat.d about 25 years of ag*
fivj feet eight or nine inches high, dark compac
tion, black ha:r tied; black eyes well mad. and
lite quarrelforte, when ialiqaor is fond of singing—bad
om- on a blue seaman's j,u kett light pantaloons, cot
lon ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Pan
th? taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
lout Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
all ter to the Marine Camp, shall receive the abovd
oa; Rt ward.
-A oaober IX, .798.? HE T, Y t A WILUAmS,
t j '' S >-'■ Marines
** PROCLAMATION
UT T)V virtue of a precept from John D. Coxe,
r . J( j jL) F.fquire, president of the court of Oyer and
? 3 Tcrmiii'.r and general goal delivery fort he trial of
all capital and other offences hi the county of
c t Bucks; cni Henrv Wtnkoop and Fi'ancis
\ J Murrav, judges of the fame court—A court of
-r Oyer and Terikiner, and gtner.il goal delivery,
; will be h:ld at Newtown, m faid county of
' as Busks, on Mot)daV the sth r'ay of Ncvembtr next.
* ,n £ All those who will profecutc the prisoners
s * in the goal of said county, are required ro be then
and rliere to prosecute againftthem as (hall bejuft—
and all the justices of the peace, coroners and cor.-
e is fl.-ible*', within the said county, »ire requirs«i to be
Bear then and there, in their proper ptrfons, with their
roils, re-cords, ihquifitions and examinations anjd
,in ? other their remembrancer, to do those : hings which
di[ to their ollices kelong, in that behalf to b&
•&\i done, &c. DANIEL TliOMAS,(hcriff.
s aw Oil. 4, 1798.. 3taw
FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Subscribers,
Deliverable at any of ifte ports oh the Dela*
. wars—who have also on hand at their stores, a.
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Com—-Letters by"
:°ra- t j. i 0 will be attended to.
Levi Hoi lings worth Ess Son.
augufi tB. dtf
ratr ' WILLIAM'Ij'LAWS,
V" SADLER & HARNESS MAKER, .
v ,j TTAS .Removed to the Corner of Cliefnut
XX and Twelfth-Areets, on t&e Common®,
;au t * « hire he will ieceivc and ex.-cute the orders of*
Irs frit nds and wholesale cnflomers, with i.f a I
Ger . stttntieio & expedition during the prevalence otf
a£fed 'l ll P rc 'f nt Epidemic, where it lias Bot made it*
appearance this fsafon, nor during any of ther
icr. y^ 3r » ;
~ - FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the, Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Maftef, from Laguira,
opay CONSIST,KG 01
' 04« Fenegss of Cocna
sealed 4000 l' l . «" Flnra Indigo
□deed 110 < - otton
, = | Packages of Goat S';ins
By Witlings y Francis.
Mo. Eleventh llreet.
■j. jnly i\ dtf
" Madras and Ventapaujem
R HANBKERCHIEFS,
E ' BY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
r of the newest and mud ai»prov«d parcerns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
' ovt; l ahi* rot SALE BY
nonly Alex. J. Miller Co.
ihool. No. 64, South Front street.
rclme 18. $
II the " FOR SALE, by
w J°«n Miller, Tun.
„ t NO. 8, CHESSUr STUkIT,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
it I*!* \9 $7
jforeigrt 2Lt>trices*
LONDOV, Augufl 19.
The Hamburgh mail due on Sunday last,
arrived this morning. . j
Per Hamburgh Mail. j
Augsburg, August 13.
The letters from Maples have not been re- s
ceived by the last Italian po l * but advicea 1
have been received from other Italian ports, 1
that an engagement ha« taken place be- t
teen the French fhet under Gene al Bu- 1
onaparte, and the English under Admiral f
Ntllon. theiffueof wh ch is not known. t
Florence, July 31. t
We hive yet received no adv ce of the t
arriv3'-,pf Buonaparte in Egypt ; but lorae t
accounts which have been brtuyht to the 1
French coi ful at Leghorn, have occafioued
a number of r ports relative to the French 1
fleet. A battle, it is said, has been fought, j
in which admir-: 1 Nelson has been conquer- 3
or, but has loft his life. General Buona t
parte uas likewise been killed. All these, c
however, are unconfirmed reports, deferring v
no credit. It is certain that the English
ag-r.t in Leghorn has received^large pack- n
et for the Fnglilh minlfler here, Mr Wind- g
ham. of the content?of which nothing las u
transpired. g
Italy, Avgujl 1. a
"All the acconnts which have been re- o
ce'vcd in the different Italian ports, agree [f:
that the E. ghftvani Fr nch fleets have met. I
According o some, Admiral Nelfoh, and F
according 10 others, Buonaparte, is killed. c<
It is likewite said, that fame 6f the French n;
convoy, or according to other letters, some jy
frigates hav been taken. O'her accounts tl
fay, that the French, after the battle, which m
was fought near Alexandria, arrived at that m
port, .-.ml effedlec! a landing.' No ef£cial
intelligence, however, has yet been made tr
public. ' f ai
Vienna, dugufl 11, en
According to all the advices received of
[s!:3U place between Buonapaite and Ad- on
tn v f Nelson, cf the circumftancc of which wl
we can hy nothing certain, as the reports pa
ere extremely various, and f.o official ac- tin
1 ousts have been received ; however, they Ft
rgree tharadmiral Nelson has taken several fir
1 tench ships of war and transports. 3;
Ilothfl, Augufl 14.
To-morrow, it is said, is the day,on gei
which the French army uto begin to ad- nu
vance : though others fay it will not be un]
till the 25 h. A great number of carriages for
have been put in requisition, which carry w e
dally fix thousand loav s from this piace oui
and Hamburgh to Ahenkirchen and Hac- be!
henburg : and lifts have been taken in the val
different di(lri<fts, of the 4torfes which may kill
be employed as relays. •
Augufl 29. Th
We yefterJay presented to our readers the t
various reports from the continent, of an f
a&ion having taken place between Horatio
Nelion ants Buonaparte's fleet. These re
ports, it mull be admitted, contain nothing (
circumftancial respecting the action, men
tioning neither the place where, nor the
time when it took place; but from the va
rious channels through which this news has ?
reached us, the increasing report* from the in J>
xontinent, and the obvious probability of ..
the event, little doubt rests on our minds 1
that it has aftually taken place ; and we
kr.ow enough rf the superiority of British ,
seamen, and of the enterprifißg and gallant ° 1
spirit of admiral Nclfon, to be attired of the !"' 0U
happiett result.
The credit of the accounts of yefler'day, ro ]
however, do not refl entirely upon the arti C f U .
c!es ejLtradled from the German and Italian ?
journals—Many private le'tera from diffa- ?
rent parts of the continent, and particularly a ". <
from Hamburgh of the 21 ftsjnft. mention,
that accounts had been received of that 3
great event, to which the eyes of all Europe f re '
arc turned with so much anxiety and ex- .
peftation. a meeting of the two hostile fleets U
in 1 lie Mediterranean having taken place; I" 10 "
the letitrsfrom Hamb-irgh to which we al- ''i,
lude. and ore of which we subjoin, are of W 'i
the befl authority, and Rate tint the English . 1
ajjent at Leghorn had publicly announced
that admiral Melfon had obtained a vi&ory, £
and the French conftil was remarked to 8
pr;-ferve the moil gloomy fileoce. The ° W ,?
action is fnppofed to have taken place near P°.!r
Alexandria, and it is even conjectured that !j j
it happened before any pact of the French .
. fleet had reached that port. Itisftatedin 'J 00
the Florence article- by the Hamburgh . r
rr all, that the commanders of both fleets had
been killed, and in another article that Bus e r
cHaparte oaly had fallen. These,. it mu
a j°y l
be allowed, aie only general a»d vague re- "°} '
ports, but it appears '.© us that they would £ a '
foarcrly be fa genera', or foofien repeated, f °. r
if they had not some foundation in faft. rient
The best informed people entertain little tx- . W '
pc«tati'yn of official or au'hentic intelligence
from Sir Hcratio Nelson's fleet reaching
London, till towards the close of the pre
ftnt month. Such intelligence may be 1
hourly expelled—that it will be cheering
and gratifying to the bosom of every true ■
Britoo, we feel a mod perfeft con.idence, KCn '
and we shall of courfc have a mnft peculiar
pleasure in announcing it to the public. « '
The foHovvirg letter has been received *
from the postmaster at Hamburgh, by a unt j er
gentleman in an official situation, later than
the date of the newspapers in which the .
fame intelligence it stated ; "
Hamburgh, Aug. ». "J™
" Dear Sir, mandi
" Many reports are in. circulation here,
«-cnc«rning a very bloodyengagement,which A ]
'1 f: - id to have happened between admiral follow
XcfeSMl and "uonapaite near Alrstard ia. q q
The English confnl at Leghorn, has an- 'fngat
m a capital vidlory on the fide of w j t [, f
>icfc'iiD over the French ; and ihe French other
i-onful at the fame time oblcrvcd a profcur.d daily <
M .eiicc. ... dollars
Thsre is even intelligence by a private t
--c.'.cr L jcq a gcatlcman «f confcquencc at ar.
Florence, in which it ii said B ionapirte 'a 1
entirely defeatfa, and made prisoner.
I ?m, &c.
J. \V. HANKEY."
THE INVASION.
y last, We have every concurrent r#afon to hope 1
for a fpet-dy and glorious account from our I
gallant vic roy. I 1
'3- On his march to Athlone, his attention 1
en re- and kindness to the troops under his com- I I
nicest mand romph tely won their heart : Liks a
ports, true fcldier, he fought no comfort or refrefh- j
f P* 6 " mt ? t for whjle one of his men re- j
• Bu- trained unfupplicd, and even then (hewed
lmtral himfelf content with the coarsest fare and 1
*"'• the meareft accommodation. Inspired by '
the example-'of their vceran leader, the I 2
jr toe troops made rapid marches, and arrivad in
foroe the fpirits at Athlone on Tuesday J
0 the last. ' t
ioued Fro-n thence on Wednesday morning, 5
rench lord Cornwallis, with a force of about 7000 •
ught, men, moved forward on the road to Tuam ; !l
quer- and it was expected that he would have yes- '
uona terday morning reached that part of the h
these, county of Mayo in which the French troops '
rvnig were. | q
!'gli!h General Lake, wth nearly two thousand j
pac - men, has taken post in Tuam, aud aided by
Vmd- general Duff from Limerick, covers Gal- a
j .as way from any attempt of the enemy, while J
general Taylor, at Boyle, is so situated as to J Cl
'• advance and cut off the retreat of the enemy c
1 re- or surround them as may be deemed necef- tl
agree 1 far v. j ec
met. The enemy's forcen are commanded by aP'
and French general named Tuofan, whofc fe- t0
died, cond in command is to be an Irish priest, ol
en*. • Kant - , a native of the county ®f IP'
iome Mayo ; the third in command was killed in re
vunts the difemharkation by fir Thoma. Chap- m
hitch man, and the Carabineers. General Kil
t.iat mam is not with his "army.
Sctal The check received by gen. Lake is at- • .
nade tributed to a ftratage.il. A few of the pea
iantry had, from fear or cho'ce, joined the j Re
1. enemy'sforces; their clothe* were made use vc
l V of to the advanced guard of the co
ave French, who thus ftarprifed the general'g 1
Ad- out ports, having been conduaed by those
' 1 who joined them through an unfrequented J
'orts path over the mountains of Ballinagee, to ce
ac- the weft of Lough Conn, while the pass at
"ey Foxford to the eastward, was occupied by 1S
era fir rhomas Chapman, after his retreat from j
Billina. er
Notwithstanding the unprepared state of J t ' l:
'on gen. Lake's forces, and his inferiority in I me
ad- number, the event would not have bee., so I en *
e unlucky had it not been for the superior { r
iges force of artillery with which the Freneh rai
iriy w ero provided They had fixteea field pieces I t ' l<
[ace our troops butfix. The Kilkenny regiment fto
lac- behaved withgreat gallantry, and loft°a mod t0 .
c valuable officer in major Alcock, who was I
nay killed on the firft assault. me
j not
The fallowing manifesto t»as transmitted] '
the to us from the coun'y of Mayo, said to be int '
an published there by the French general. hav
,tio Health and Fraternity to the Peo- and
; r n e - pie of Ireland! ladvI adv
en- " T HE Great Nation has sent me to a ai
the r° U W ' l '' 2 heroes, tcK deliver you not
va - from ,fce hands tjrasts; fly to our stand- j
has ? rds ' an< * are wit ' l 05 llje K ,or y of ftibdu- t ior
the in S ' be world - W « will teach you the arts and
of of war, snd to despise the low pursuits of k MO
idj and indu Py- You shall Jive on the f
we spoils of war, and the labour of others, thai
ifh acquisition of wealth is the acqnifition a
int °. m '%y» and th e enjoyment of ease is glo- Q r ' c
| le rious. We have made all the nations we o pp
have cont/uered happy, by arresting their l a tJ r
property ; by applying it to the common f 0 a
t . cause, and consecrating it to the champions l att(
en of liberty ! Property is a common right, to ,
F e . belonging to the valour that seizes it. We mea
•ly already deflroyed the unaspiring tran- a t, o ,
n> quihty of Switzerland; and the wealth, p i n j,
at and the power, and the bigotry, .of Itajy G ua
are no more ! If*hes .he jujlice of France pri f (
has thus extended its vengeance in j f
, tg unoffending nations, consider with how much pefel
. . more rigour it will # visit you if you shall flight has 1
jj.' 'ts benignity. Fly to our standard, and we ma J c
Q f free you from Jpiritual as well as tempo- do n
f n ™l fubjt-aion ; we will free you from the gran
fetters of religion, and the frauds of priest.
craft. Religion is a bondage intolerable to Tl
™ ninds ; we have banished it from our 'he J
own country, and put down the grand im
ar poster, the pope, whose wealth we have fa- \fa n o
at crificed on the altar of reason. Fly to our 0 . °
:h andard, > 3nd wc W 'H break your conßec- r r Ji Ol
j n tion with England ;we will iave you from
h tbe . ra P r ."^ cat ' on feeing yourselves under Zejlt
; d an invidious governmeat, and exalt you into Bellei
the rank of thole countries which now en-
joy the benefits of Frenth fraternity. Let Alex '
j. "ot the ties of kindred, the fedudlions of
d ease » or the unmanly attachment to the cotu
3, [ 0 . rt3 ,. of I; fc' r teach y° u to neg>a this Minol
_ rnendly call of your countrymen and fel- Oolia
bur citizens.
e ' w KILMAINE, Lie*. Gen."
August 18.
' Letters have been received this morning T ,
by a gentleman of the navy office, from Gi- D : r j
5 braltar, which Rate, that an action had ta- rui p°l
Ken place between admiral Nel on ar.d Bu- ing at
I onaparte, in which the former had captured enna t
five fail of the line, and one hundred ar.d "«'<>n
fifty transports. ver, tl
The Indiamen taken up as transports are
under failing orders. They take out the- Th'"'
10th regiment of foot, and some other The
troops, in all IJOO men, and arc expcAed serve,
to touch at Lifbcn for more. Tlity go out Frencf
under convoy of the Tigre of 80 guns, com- ! hat f,J
manded by fir Sidney Smith. '"g di
__ alio fei
' A gentleman lately from Spain, E i*es the ? nd "
I following intelligence .• intent 11
On the 3d of July a 74 g l!n ship and a
■ frigate arrived at Fern I from the Ha vannah, earnell
■ with sugar and five millions of dollars. An- quire n
other ihip of the lint and a fri*ate were 'i° ns . 1
daily expetled there with eighty mJHions of vcrn,n<
doliais. afluram
At Ferrol were one ship of 90 guns, one
74, ar.d one frigate; in dock, twd 80 aud the twt
» -
irte 'i two 74 gun (hips. On tb'e ift inflani, a'
Cronie in Spain, were one 74, one 44, o e
frigate, and two men of war brigs, with fe
r." veral English, Daiu(h, and American prizes.
Oa the 1 ft iiift. three frigates 44 guns each,
with ijoo troops, bound for ths Grand
1 hope Canaries, from thence to (he Havannah,
m our failed from Ferrol. At B-mrdv-tux, oii the
sth i.ift. 14 privateers, of 22 guns each'; all
cntion hew, were fi.tcJ out, and t« be at sea in
1 com- thirty days.
,Ik« a
:fre(h- -dugujl 17.
en re- This mormVg arrived a mail from I,<"- j
letved b>Vi, brought to Falmouth by the prince of |
: and Wales packet in 15 day*. The following 1
; d by Rrc extracts of a letter, dat d Lisbon, July 1
, the 28, the packet failed :
«d in " A report is in circulation, thst the4th 1
lefday J u 'y decided the fate of Buonaparte's fleet,
that thel'Orient, four (hips of the line, and 0
•Jting, 57 transports, fell into the hands of our n
7000 squadron, and that the commander in chief d
uam ; himfelf is a prisoner—that a battle has been
eyes- to "ght, few entertain aay doubt, and per- j'
f the Jj a P s 3,1 express which arrived last ni£ht
roops from Madrid, hr:« made the government ac* t [
quainted with the result.
ufand re information refpe&ing the defeat of ol
rd by Buonaparte, which we yesterday gave on the it
G a l- authority of a letter from Lisbon, is more 01
while detailed than that which we have been ac- P'
as to ctiflomed to receive, and is unqucftionably "!
nemy c rre it as far as relates to the emulation of *
lecef- 'ha repot ,n Eilbon. The fart is mention- cc
ed in the number of letters from that cr
by a What credit is due to it, we Wave er
c f c . to our readeas to decMt. No intelligent* w
rieft, °W engagsment is repeated in the French }h
y »f papers, though one of them states, that the
cd in re P°rt 01 a meeting between the two fleets t ; r
hap- maintained its ground. (Sun.) ob
Kil- Fr
Augnft If. ev
1 at- l ' !e prcceedings at Raftadt, vvc are COl
pea- who,l y ignorant ; but it is stated as a ge- no
lthe neral opinton, that the obftacVa to peace are t0
- life V<T T numerous, and not to be easily. over-
the COme - U
ral'j SUN OFFICE. J
hose Three o'clock- P. M. I un
ated We the P ress to announce the re- fev
~ tQ ceipt, by Express, of Paris papers to the nt "
r s at ? t ' > ' Echo of August 7, there I "f r
Iby M , a ? T e V a ?. cf a letter d * tsd Beaucaire, L re
rom 2 c J"v> said to be from the Commission- I iou
er or the Marine at Toulon, mentioning I «-*el
e of Admiral Nelson and Buonaparte, had I
yin met near Alexandria ; that the fleets had oat
,f 0 r and Admiral Nelson had loft t0 1
rior th . r £. c 8 and two frigates. Ttie Com
neh ™ llfioncr adds, that he does not give fur- be
:ces ' her particular*, because the Direftoty dif<
lent know them firft. The letter is stated I wh
aoft t5 wnttsn to the Citizen Cambette. the
was c 1 ' c 19 truc that the French hare I eafi
met. Of the result, in that event, we are Dac
not apprchenfive. I
fted . Guillemardet writes from Madrid, that tre:
,i e intelligence had reached Cadiz of an aftion p i r<
j "fr ken pla ° e between Buonaparte reai
;o- , Nelr ° D » in which the former had the I the
advantage. r
» ' e . ttCF from Genoa a "° Kates, that an I The'
action ha. taken place but the result was DU b
ou not known. I j
I<j- A letter from Vienna states, that an ac- Rhj
tI0 " H t , ak / n place between the Engiifl, the
r " nd 1 rench fl «ts, the result of which is not s am ,
kho wn#
TS C Weft ladle 3 we dtra
; ■ , that v '«or Hughes continues to preserve as tl
In" 3 h ' R KT dfg,et the c, »raaeri(lic of the diffi.
Great N.t,on-cunning, impudence, and forn
oppreffioo. Hiscorrefpondence of late re- ditit
«r lating to prifonerj and cartds, has been I tolls
ms f°,, arr ?S ant wit , h oilr commanders, that the this
latter have no alternative, but are compelled I (hall
«» to meet it with silent contempt. I a the cu 'l<
, n m k ean w 5 are f°rry to observe, that to tl
<n- about 300 of our brave countrymen are h Bth
Z P ,Wn / | m fickne j!f close confinement, at entir
Guadaloupe. Col. Leslie Brown is still a from
ce prisoner. j
>n The Grand Master if Malta, Baron Horn
ch peich, with forty knight, of the Maltese order,
ht has arrived at Triefe, and solicited h,s imperial 2
ve majesty for permission to reside at Vienna W<- r
£22" k " w wht "" r ,hi ' *
„ e as it
4&MIRAL NELSOX's FLEET cnu'fi
.1, „ . foMowin g isa corr 6i3 lift of the fleet in form
z n k onder ihe comnund ° f a<i - i
a- Uanguard 74 J Nelson . K- B, j nnd^
ir n • ' L. Barry I
Onon 74 S:r/. Saumarez -° ucl
' Culloden 74 Trowbridge Budc
S a lftfure 74 Hallowell ■ Iss th<
:r OUS , 74 Hood , nthe
0 fiellerophon 74 Derhv I r IM , at
lr Audacious, 74 Gould 1 •
Alexinder 74 Ball r f m r al
s £ Theiius 74 Miller I
* Majestic 74 Weftcott J lic P u
. Deter.ce » 74 Peyton Ito th
| s Minotaur 74 Louis j make
1- Ooliah 74 Foley sent
5° riiompfon t ; ve t(
(STATE PAPER.)
» Rastadt. august 9. situate
The conc.ufum of the deputation of rheem- wer e
pire of the 7th was Rot approved by the impc- of Fi
nal plenipotentiary. His excellency this morn- condit
lug at three o clock dispatched a courier to Vi- P
1 eßl } a to obtain inftruflions relative to its ratiG- ..-.i
i C4t ion. Not to oblirufl the negociation, howe- V r ! '
ver, the imperial plenipotentiary this day tranf- ot the
a muted the: conclufiim to theFrenrh plenipoten- to Ge
[ tiarie*, without aa-nexing hi« ufua'l new p
: The conclufum is as followt : that i
r The deputatiou of the empirr could not ol>- the ch
1 serve, without fatisfaiftion, in The note of the chino
c French plenipotentiaries of the ift Thermidor, n ?'
. that fur.her relaxations were acceded to reipedl- ! ' n ,
ing different prints of the negotiation :it has In t " c '
alio seen, with confiderible pleasure, the i'olemn sr| d,
and reiterated declaration, that it was not the it fliou
intention of the French government that the iu- the bo
pep«ndence ot the empire ibould be threatened W ;.K
or exp fed ; that, on the contrary, it wai their 1
eamell desire th»t this independence /hould ac- ?}}*"£<
quire more (Irength a«d solidity, These inten- a
tions, mamfefled on the part of the French go- 'ball fil
vernmenl, joined to the formrl and reitera'ed turc t
aflurances of their serious difpoGtion towards a fep?rat
speedy conclufioa of a tcace, afforded still rur- tion t
iner hopes that the relations of amity between n-*;,.-.
the two nations, in order tc secure which the 0
.» "
tnt, a' recently consented to the greatest
4, o e facriStes, might soon be happily re-ellabliftied,
itb fe- na twithHanding the difference of opinion 1 hat
prizes. cx '^ s u P on a var iety of matters,
a -i French note of th* tft Thermih'or be
i cl, gins with some preliminary observations relative
Lirand to the mode of proceeding hitherto purlued
annah. The deputation on their fide, think it neceffzry
011 the to make, in answer to it, a tew counter-obier- ,
cti'i all vatioo «-
sea in The French miriifter? seem to look upon the j
• starting of new demands immediately following
those that hare betn discussed, as the simple ef
fefl of the progreflion of ideas, andasthefuc- '
j. .. ctffive dev»iopemcnt of their plan ; tliey pre- '
1 x '' • tend that they hare never renounced the idra of
ice 01 bringing forward fre/hdemands. The deputa- t
Jtt'iog »j°n of fh» empire have uniformly been perfiiad- i
, July ed, on the contrary, that the queflion would f>e
continually declined and evadc.il ; that it would {.
lentil "npo®'' 3, to rake in and comprehdod the ,
fle«-r whole : and th»t the nejotiaticn col Id never ar
' A rive at a ftx|d pobir, it the propoled conditions
e, and 0 f pcace were continually to be followed np by ai
if our new ones. It was tnerely in thi* view le
chief deputation, prexious to their agreeing to anv £
1 been kalis of pacification, req lefted in their note of u ,
per- 'be loth February of the prcfent year, that the 1
nifrht French minlflers would explain and make lno>n ,
0 to them, in a fitisfa&ory manner, the whole of
the lacrifices which the French republic was dif- es
pried to require of the .mpire at thtf conclusion E
:at of of this uufortunat: war, and when afterwards, th
m the 't was found aecelTary, in the note of the nth ha
more March to accede to the firft basis of peace
n ac- propofedhy France,that acreement was ground
na'olv C(i u P on ,Previous coruliti.ins, which e.xcjudecl ,
■ al! the ulterior demands which might he made
or upon the ern;)ir ; it was beli-vej that thefc
tion- rorMrtrens would have checked every other fa- 'in
that crilic that could ps.ijib.ly be expedVed from the of
leave empire, in Jirder to obtain a pe»re io earnestly
p?nce lifted for and it is for this ex; refs purpofethat __
cnch P. rev,o ' JS conditionshaveiieen totiliaily re- ,
t the e "'y c ? ' H notes °f the 4th ind jiftof April,
as it is done in rhe prcfent; the deputa- co '
tion could not therefore but feel surprised, on tar
oblerving the new pretenfidus contained in the rta
French note of the 14th «t" May. Guided how- pe;
ever, by their anxious tfc-lire to accelerate' the Jjl
are concluhon of peace, ;hey determined ih rhe c
, ge- notCs of the,»Bth of May and the oth of July, Ct r
■ are toa ß ree t0 f o "' e r 'f those demands. The French
ver. T^ r *' S ,Ke i r 4«M<.ffidr.f and " r
I lit 1 hcrmidor, have fomewliat exaiieo-elpeil- ter
ing some other demands, or have cnfeavoi cti" t o the
J modify them ; and the points that ftid remain A e .
under discussion, t!iey have in part refutne . in
re- j seven articles in theirlaft note. Th-yftall be!'
the I nOW answered "tide by article, and in a man. i Ca [ :
I ner > that (hall afford the most unequivocal proof I r '
I of the ardent desire felt by the deputation to ' fori
; ,re > j procure for Cermany a peace, which it so ;.nx- nio
ton- I ioufly willies for, however dear it ruay be oblig- li(h
ing I «d to purchaie it.
I '• The Deputation has proposed to post- opj
had I poDc the consideration of the obje&s relative to
loft jto commerce and navigation till the couclu- brie
>»- I Con of a treaty of commerce, in order to hof
jbe enabled thoroughly to investigate, and will
oty I discuss an afair of so much importance, and of t
ted j which involves so many confutations.' At _=
the fame time, if the difficulties could be so
ave I easily removed as, without retardiag the 1
are I pacification, to admit the arrangement to
be made on this fubjea to be inserted in any
hat treaty of peace, the Deputation of the Era- f ,T
'on pire are disposed to accede to it. They as Tall
rte readily fubferibe to the desire manifefted by ane
the I the French Minister Plenipotentiary with rt- | tain!
I gard to the toll duties on the Rhine, and an d
an they_ copjent to their abolition, as the Re- theil
ves J public, -on its fide, has consented to the sup- j °/ w
preffion of those ou the left bank of the • j
I Rhine ' such as the warehouse duties and has
11 I the custom paid by the waiermen.—At the falle;
•Ot 1 fame time, as the custom duties must form ties,
J a certain compensation for the loss cf confi- ' val °'
rn, j dtrable revenues derived from the tolls, and fivrc
ve as their eflablilhment will experience much
'j I r ifEculty ' 0r £ ' le reafr" 4 ® mentioned in the !k/ k
f 01 "!"* 1 - "O'm. " ought to be fixed-as the con- : f crut ;
re- dition that the complete fuppreflion of these j and i
en j tolls fhall'nat take place far two years. In j thinh
he I tins interval, tfie principles and rules which -nate
-5 " la! Ibe observed in the eftaiilifhment of the A
e J culloms, may be determined, and agreeably at r pr
at Ito the proportion made in the notes of the "\y
re J 18th of May, and 9th of July, to secure fir!t
at entirely the free navigation of the Rhine accilfi
a I from its mouth upwards, by means of a dupes
I convention made with the Batavian Repub- r,lncc
n " I lie. " DireJ
r ) I * were
a' I 2. The Deputation of the Empire have Ul, hia
' r e consented that the principal navigable course p VCr
Dc of the Rhine, formerly called the Tahlveg I'-\ k
las it has bttn fixed at various times by fci- f,','
I eirtific persons witt common consent,'(hall inade r
in I Qrm the future boundary between Germany nance,
J- I and France, fr<>m the place where, leaving excepi
the Duchy of Cleves, it enters into Holland P° fcd
s - under the name of the Wall. In the above ? rtnc '
Duchy, the canal which divides the l(le of Vr"
Budcrich into two parts, ihali be ccnfidercd ''nlf
las the Thaiveg. With regard to the islands mitted
I in the Rhine, the proposition that the islands triotifr
j situated to the right of the Thalweg ihall Be the
I remain or be ceded to the Empire ; and our en
I those to the left Ihall be ceded to the Frtnch der l ' 6 '
Republic; this point is perfeftiy agreeable
to the wilkes of the Deputation. 8 They L/o
make no difficulty therefore, to con- to the
lent to the fucceeciing proposition rela time in
tive to the pa t of the Rhine, which for- theii p;
merly constituted the boundary between with a
Germany and France, viz. That the ifl s n. lf , ! f
situated on the right of the which ,he"n„
• PrCV,OU „ ny I ,he ln difputed pofteiTwn ha. enc
- of France, Ihall remain so in future, under them t,
• condition of a fimilnr couccffion in favour of Who h
t-he empire and the Sovereign of Germany Swiss a
. w j th regard to the isles situated on the left t0 ,tle
of the Thalvag, and which are now fubieA Car ' cr P
to Germany, They likewise agree to the 'ZnJ
new proposition of the- French Miniftew,-.
that the chaug«s which may take pLicc in
• the channel of the Rhine (hall not in future F
change the right* of fevereigntv over the
islands ; that thete (h ill remain henceforth
in their present division, fub>f{ t as they EXE
; S " d ' .j 0 Fran « and Germany, although A . .
1: fllould evea.happen that, by a change of
the bed of the river, their relative pot:tier* And f
with regard to the ThaNrg, might bt f 1
changed The private property of the , '
r«e». and the free enjoyment of its produce the C 1
'hall courfc belong to the present and fu- >
tun owners, with regard to the line of
leparation through the Thi.lveg. I ;l sddi
tion t.i these points, the neutrality of the HAS
r .-'■'gatwn ft>a;l t c fcrupulouSy obfeiwd. »n the N
- Kan^>wi
Erf ■ j' Tt" r *j s V" ut '°" Empire, or j
in tSt ° rder t0 dlfchar & c ev «y duty Which the
important obligations they have to fulfil
h'or be- require, and animated with the most sincere
relative def.re es speedy as possible to obtain peace
fiied— for Germany, have resolved, notwithftand.
I ,ng , thc severe facrificcs tbey have alr«ady
made » accede to the affli'ding ptopofition 4
of the French Plenipotentiaries—«« That the
""•S T r t" ° f . Ehrenbr , ei ' tftein <MI be demoliflu
ipleef- atfer the conclusion of peace." This
hefuc- consent, however, is given under the eon
y pre- dition, fine qua noil et refolutiva, that the
idra of French Government, on its fide, fliall cause
Icputa- to be demolished all the fortified places on
'rfiiad- she right bank of the Rhine, and on the
>u.., be f am e fide of the Thairgg, viz. Kehl, Caf
wuu.d r.i t« c » . . v^ai
id the tti? ' e . I ' ol : f .. oF M _ a ». and the isle of St.
ver.r- 3,1 Mbe given up £
iitioflß the and all claims to them, as well
„p by as to the other places on the fame fide so
at the; lemnly renounced. This deputation of the
0 any Empire in adopting the resolution to <r,V
at the , UP m / U: r r f ? VVhkh haS
nown ° ufeful. thmk themselves entitled to
ioleof de !"® nd f whlch 15 like wife consistent with
lsd;f . e*ifting con vent ion) that the blockade of
lufion iinrenbreititcin be immediately raized a d
ards, that the measures taken to prevent ihl
nth habitants of the Thai from receivin-r Dm *
lun" Vlllons t> e I ike wife d.'fcoßtinu-d. ° "•
luded 4- Wi"th regard to.the bridges ertabfift.
made _ r * . purposes of commerce, they per
thffc .believe, as h&s been already obicrved
?rfa- 'in tfyc notes, of the 18th of May and igth
"S® that permanent on a river
-that W • as 3 boundar . v b-tween two
"yre. . natlons ' tannot be considered /imply as re.
pril, "ting to commerce, but alio as points of
>uta- C( >n.rati connected with political and rail!.
,on tary operations. ..'hefe motives have al
-1 the ready prever.ted, m preceeding treaties of
lew- peace, the eftablifiiment of bridges of the
the „ r ° ,his mn *' l be added that 'he bridge
Inly, H' Jr '"ig*'i would be only at the distance
ench of h ? lf ? !ca gue from that of Bade • that
nrtd itmi. ht touch on the right baek of Suvifn
>eii- territories with thefamefacility as those of
tfie German Empire, sim e a part of the isle
"in C ' < -' ondoni^r8 .as well as the terra firrna
1 b e j ,I'tuated behind that island belongs to the
' u an i°" ° f Basle ' With rcf P est to the
roof | bridge between the two Brifcag, as those
. to I fort of bridges ought not, even in the opi
!ii*. nma of the French rainilier, to be eftab
ig-j lilhed, but by the mutual consent »f th«
I inhabitants of the banks, it may be said, in
•oft- | oppofmon, that the inhabitants belonging
tjve . to the house of Auftn'a wilLnot find thia
clu- bridge either ufeful o; neceiTary. It is
- to hoped then that the French Government
and will not infill further on the efcablilhmcnt
and or theie bridges.
At ~
the | M>ome(ttc.
any SAVANNAH, Sept. 25.
f.l fkj " ° f ,he French "daily un
ras T u" g ', C rT h,e c ? rref P°ndence between
as Talleyrand Pcngord and Mr Gerrv, ha, added
by a new leaf to the ample pa? c. We have c-r
---re-1 tainfy thought too lightly of French iatrigue.
jn d French,nfluence—If the Directory have at
le * ™ e,r ""nnjumJ » strong party in ih'it country,
-ip- j t l f w f h ' ch such boast, is it nottim.
the • i t , he , CSnd " a i of P a «y mould be exam
tnd has k r a rae anol, °'> r ,ruth thit »' uch 1 pSrty
li e fen,r I r T 'n ever- country which ha,
the fallen a iaenfice to their arms ; and t > fucHoar
rm ties, In, n inter.tive divisions, more than w'their
,si. valor or nnnnberj, have they owed frir exten
ncj five coirquefts.
ch U °. lhcn exam!ne the condu«fl of the party
he !k . * nca » who arc supposed to be devoted to
m '''e views of France— Let a cand.d but ItriS
- "tiny ol their anions and proteffions be made
ti \ / y have beeD ,allcl y accused we may
I„ , flunk our country of ail others, the mofl fortu
ch - nate '
he A flnele in, ';"" te "j' futh an examination,wi:i
jy at P rci f"t be felt died -which refer, to the cor
/ reipondeuce abovernentioned.
re envo y s were
pi'b.iQied, there were many persons who
ne a cell ted _ the envoys of having Dctn tnide the
a dupes of foreign agents, who were not counte
b. nanced e.ther hy i alleyra,.. Perig ß rd. or by the
, Direaory— Let it be alked who these persons
W ir lßcll ,ln aceu fation—L)id the'
ve unbiaded m.nd of an honelt, upright American
fe p VCr . proJucea " unworthy sentiment, of Gen.
■S fry Marft all ? Every man will
.f a " f *' tr for 6'mfclf- Was it not a French Party
b x whom fueh a ccufations were
made ? Was any person ever heard to counte
y nance, much lefe to believe-fuch an accusation,
g excepting those who have been conftar.tly op.
d P okd 10 the Federal government ? But if the
re French actually fend their forces to itlack\us
)f lay their partisans—we will then ft>ew our pat
riotiim, we witl jom in defence ot our country,
a How far, let it In- afced, mul they be per
s nutted to exCend their hdlt.lity before such pa
ls rnonfm ibewn J Very fufpiciou, would '
IJ Be the profelfions of tliat man who would affi't
d our enemies to calumniare, to abuse, and pluri.
h : er ,, U8 * an , d then cyolyi'ay, that if we were ac
tuall attacxed, ne would join in our defence
It there yet remain a few a:no BR the oppofers to
Y our government, who are not ailually devoted
" tTr,c't V ' eWSOt , FranCe ' ,he s-°"« ht to lose no
r time in giving the molt une Q uiv,Kal pfoofs of -
, then patriot,fm-a deati-bed'repentance c orat ,
8 J,^ he F ''? Ch arm '" ( wh,ch °od forbid >
> thr If CVf "/ eCUre 2 lanrf '"g O" 'he territory of
1h« d S,a . te f " 11 W1 " ,hen be asked—Who
r the' , 00 r" grc r '" h an atUck ■ Whfl has led
mK° ? P °. l , at wc arf 1 divided people ?
f W ed t0 that "ie Duichfthe
' 1 \ n \ eßet,an '.- we Ihall fall an eify prr>-
. to the haughty conquerer, ? Such questions are
• Iff P re^" ,c<, > •'•>» owned.—lt IS always bet-
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
the Off.cr of the Gazette of tht
Uff |T Eu STAtes,
And foi warded agreeably to direc
tion, any where in the vicinity of
the city. 1
pft. 13. dtf
PETER~bLIGHT
in S!r Vd T k i' Canning House t» hi, House
m the Northern Lit*.tie, i6i r Mice Town, Ger
tiij —i ed
BY THIS' DAY'S MAIL. n« co
NEW-YORK; Oaober 16. of ch<
Number of deatli6 in this city for 24 Hours Franc
tndingFriday evening, 24. —20 of the fever, and
Tor the 24 hours Cnding Saturday evening, Cong
16 —12 of the fever. a: >d 1
Gern
Number of deaths in this ciry for twentv- is da
four hours ending Sunday evening, 18 —l6 July,
of the fever. I
men 1
The accounts of the meeting of the two minei
hostile fleets in the Mediterranean cannot Fren
he qneftioned. They are not only strongly
corroborated, bat rendered indubitable by R(
.Incoming at once from,various parts of Spain, Uiiic
Portugal, It ah*. France and En . ed fr
gland. We have accurasely compared dates we a
and other ctrcumftances, and, can announce fail si
with certainty, that the Britifli 9eet- had after
gained a d-'cifive glorious and important vie- crew
tory; and we only have to lament, that the
gallant'Ntlfon does not live to enjoy thofe.j O
honours and rewards, which his diftinguith
ed talents and exertions,so highly merit; .and I
which-his nation are wifely in the habit of to
bellowing with a liberality peculiar to itfelf, '| at
on thole who render eminent services to the nI,K "
state. The confeqiences o£ this brilliant f ain '
vi'idry will be great. Perhaps to it we fpeal
are to many important changes i 1 re ' u '
the afpe£t of European po'itics, and the attei
conduft of France to wards U3. Ihe Prut (
fian minister at Paris has fpicitedty demanded
ho./ far the Directory intend to befrisrid VPP
Kofciufko, the Polity insurgent as they lt Wl
style him. The Aullrian deputies at !laf
tadt have rejefted with scorn, the insolent f*P'
terms which the French Miniftera had pro- 10
posed, and hoflilities will shortly recom
mence. The Emperor of Ruffil has sent
another squadron to reiniorce the fleets of ' el '
England. The embargo laid on American a ' a b
(hips is'taken off, and the mo ft pacific and
forbeauiug is "proftffed. '* Faith
ful to the interelts of tl)e United States, and V
conformably to the wishes of the French na- and
tion," the Directory decrees the following Ant
arrette: are !
Art. I. That the embargo laid on the the
Ameriean vciTsls (had be taken off. fitti
Art. 11. Ihe Minister of Marine and phei
Colonies, is charged with the present de- ning
cree, which fliall not be publifhsd. We dim
are in the possession of. the latest French and rife
English papers, and shall continue to give folei
interesting details. cam
Cot
MADAME BUONAPARTE. in a
The connexion between Buonaparte and depi
Barras, the French from the
following circnmftanCe : Barras conceived a
strong partiality for the fortune and person }
of a mulatto widow, who married a fecocd I j
time to a French nobleman. Barras soon arr ;
contrived to fend the nobleman into the o- t j, e
ther world, and obtained pofsefiion of his g pE
widow. In time Barras grew tired of her, t t e
and offered to procure Buonaparte military upv
promotion if he would marry her. Buon- an( j
a PV te - e( j
Wily closed with the proposal; and by the p OI
interest of Barras, was sent with a com
mand to Italy. In confeqsence o£ this hu
mane and delicate arrangement, the mulat
to widow is now Madame Buonaparte, and
berhulbaild thearbiterofltily. [Eng.papT]
-
A Loudon Paper soys Turn Paine
into the perfe.ll c uitempt at Par'u - he-is °
■■exdudei! all focietv. and shunned even by his
compeer", M uir. Stone, Sc —Kc derives a f nail Alt
allowance, from fomeof the tinblic prints,which In
he expends In liquor —he is seldom sober. hai
thi
BOSTON, Oflober 11. .
dil
COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION- Ff
Extract of a Utter from " Gottenlurg, dated
July 2 <sth, 1795, to the editor.
" The duties on goods imported in, or
exported from Sweden, in foreign vfffels,
are 40 per cent higher than on those in na
tional bottoms. Our consul M. Elias
BVckmin, made all his exertions and pre-
▼ailed upon this government to reduce the
fame for American vessels at only 10 per
c,-rtt above Swedift vessels ; insomuch ours
are now enpying nn advantage of 30 per
cefit they pay less than all other foreign na-
tions. ( _ to
" This adv ntaVc is peculiar to Gotten-
burg, which besides is a free port. When
the {roods imported for home CoifumDtions
the duties above mentioned are du u . When
the goods are intended to be re-exported, J?
they are stored in public magazines, and li-
able to a fingleduty of 1-4 per cei.t of the
value for rtfcojrnitiofi _
" Rum is admitted when direflly import
ed in vellels belonging to the United State
of America ; or in Swedish vtffels.
" You know that in addition to these
being situated at
the entrance of the Cattegat, fronting the
North Sea. No found duty is to be paid,
and the dangers of navigation are much lef
fened. _
" This p >rt is always furniflied with' eve-
ry kind of produce of the Baltic J and A
rrerican cargoes are fold easily. The
EaH Tndia company have n their (lore?, >a
constant affcfrtmcrtt of dry goods, chioa and J
tr?.». c
'• A regw.ar American trading veflel,
could make ihree voyages a year at Getten- J
hnrg ; and no danger of cruifere palling (
North about." ;
The above letter contained in a pijlfcript, the
following intelligence.
«' On our paflage to th>'s place, we fpuke 1
in the Cattegat,'he bf'g Orlando, captain '
Benderfoo, who has finee arrived at Copeti- j
liapren. ,
"• Sweden is very quiet ; the young king '
is beloved, and expected (h n rtly at Gottcn
bursT, preparations nre making for his re
ception.
" Sortie internal and military difturban- '
«es, prevail in Ruflia ; J>o llranger is ad
mitted there ; a line of troops is spread o-
Yer the limits of that empire. It is report
• i
Ed here that the isperor was killed ; but
no cor.fii>Hiatioii of it.
" The mail of this day brings the news
of the at Scltz heing broke up ;
Francois de fet off for Paris,
and count. Cobeuicl for Vienna. The
Congress of RaSadt vas to break up also, w
and there is a profpuftof war again between
Germany and F-anqe. This intelligence
is dated Frankfort 9th, and Raftadt Bth Exti
July." f u
The D a "es and Swedes, have eight fail of Jit
men of war out a cruising, and are de er- ■ cr
mined to protest their g-adu againlt the "
French. men
■— . " clofi
Report having been circulated that the of tl
United States frigate Constitution hacf fail- Em;
. ed from the Chelapesk with a sickly crew, pert
we are authorised to state that (he was to
fail from Hampton Road, the firft fair wind '«
after the 27th and that the officers and offic
crew were in perfedt health. und
<<
j On Thursday evening, one Bemb/idge, a i a i d
youhg man residing at Dartmouth, who had R u |
fjr fomt time palt difcov. red an attachment ; n (
to Miss RulTel, daughter of Mr. Ruffcl of ; n a
hat place, went to Mr. Ruffel's house about ] a ;j
niu= o'clock, entered the r-:i>m where the ta jj
family were fitting, and expressed a vvifh to be
speak to Mil's Ruff-1. This Mrs. Rufiel jj Z(
refufed, and eKpreffcd her difp',ealure at his
attention to'her daughter. This the villain t j )e
( _prcbably expefted, lor havicgprovided him- w |,;
' felf with a long butch r's knife, he tcok an t0 ,
opportunity immediately after, and buried | lav
P it with the molt lavage violence in the bosom j, ca
of the unfortunate girl, who .ilmoll iriftantly
expired. The wreuh then (tabbed himfelf
. in two places, but we believe not mortally. va j
Affiftatice was called ; he was immediately f Q n
taken into culiody, and will doubtless fuf- C<)l
f fer the proper vengeance of the law for hi* her
j diabtftical attrocity. Nat
\ . - |an
•PITTSFIKLD, oa. 10. the
1 We are credibly informed that Mr. Lyon uni
- and his foil; Jadah Spooutr his printer, and uni
r Anthonv Hafw«ll printer in Beiviington, or
are arre(Ud for sedition, and fen
: the Diflri A Court of the United States now j tio
fitting in Rutland. It is said Mr. Lyon ap
i phed for counsel, to two attornies from Ben
- nington, his particular friends, but they de- Ki
e clincd. Alas! that ihofe men, who could in
i rife from their beds "at dead of night, that
e solemn hour" and, with the firing of
cannons welcome Lyon pn his returft from bu
Congress, refufe him their assistance go
4n an hour of diltrefs. Alas! for Jocobin on
d depravity, and Sans-Culotte friendfhip- tw
e
a DEDHAM. Oftober 11,
n Plague on board the Conflitution.
d Last evening we were informed, a vessel
n arrived at Bolton, which brought news, that |°
>" the plague had been communicated from a in ;
1S Spa nidi vessel to ■ the Constitution —that U
r » tje First Lieutenant, the Captain's son, and fe
y upwards of twenty of the crew have died, H
and that the life of the Captain was difpair- re
a " ed of. We hope this is nothing but a re- If
ie port. th
n- so
NEWPORT, Oftober 9/ P<
- z
COMMUNICATIONS.
When Tall'yrar.d undertakes in his last
note to Mr. Gerry to contrajf the condua w
1S of the two governments, it would fecm that ti
,i s Mr. Gerry had at last really given him the E
all diceur to turlefque the " terrible republic."
ch In h.is survey of the'cOndnft of France, he
has completely described the forbeara-ce of
the American government : In thepretended
violence of the American government he has
displayed a jail piaure of the conduit of M
F — _ V
The American editors in their remarks on n:
the fecent correspondence between Mr. ft
S * Gerry and Talleyrand, fecm totally at a
loss to discover what the French minister
means—and it must be confeffed that this P
confufion arises i > a great decree from the 1
confufed manner in whigh be has expressed
ser himfelf—One editor supposes that the firm
llrs ness of onr government has al last wrought j
a pacific change in the policy of France,and
na ~ founds this opinion on Talleyrand's anxiety
to negociate, and the forroni he expresses at »
the profpea of hofti'.ities—We may, how
ien ever, fafdy rely, that this pretended cuxicty
nS and [arrow arc not the working of a contrite
1<? ." fp' r,t ■ Talleyrand is no doubt to the
e j.' foul at the disclosure of his infamy and cor- _
, rnption ; and the gloomy difcontcnt of his
lie mind appears to pervade his correfpon- )
denes ; but we have more reason to flip- f
lrt " pose that this state of mind would inCrcale 1
a ' e his malignity, thaa engsuders remoafe. This 1
malignity will disguise at the fame time '
lee that it embitters the draught that is preparing ;
f for us. We ought to believe every thing j 1
l . , C fooncr than the prof fiions of t». French i "
' government : We ought to txoea any •
thing sooner than the fulfilment of their I
promises. They mult have loft, before this ;
ev ~ time, all hope ofdividii g the people of this j
J, country —Their only objea,will now he to
e ainovui, ana inpr.ffuit oftl.is objea they will
*'■ 'j probably attempt to take us by surprize.
31 The spirit of the p?ople, and the ene-gy of
n-1 our government is about to difappo'int
them. They ha»e long " cultivated'peace
fc"' with sincerity"—We are now preparing
° '«to vindicate our rights with firmn^fs."
Last week letters were received in this
' ' >e town by way of Madeira, from on board
, the (hip Samiramas, Jacob Smith, com
*e mander on her paffjge from Canton, dated
t; "" 23 days ater her i tiling ;at which time
1 (he was up with the Cape de Vcrds Islands;
, • all well on board, and had seen no cruisers
kmc f
of an y nation,
ttcn- J
; re- * ...
0" The Hea'th Orfice is kept open nicht and
. day, at the City H.ill, where every rrreffary
" . convenience is procured fir removinjr t'.ic lick
? ' and burying the deat!
id o- WIT ALT.EN.
port- . Health Office, September 29.
I firient
; %fyz <ffa3ctte> Hi
, PHILADELPHIA, shoal
—~
WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 17. f <t rei
; —— gjjj
1 Extra 3of a letter from S. Bourne, Esq. Can* 'he f
ful General of the Untied States at Am- °n l'
f flerdam, dated 'July 29, 179?, to the Sc- 'he i
cretury of Stale. you
; " Prior to the departure of clie last A- j utt if
merican veffd in our portj I fce;> leave 10 in- tions
close you a transcript from a Dutch gazette the c
e of this day, containing a late atr.Ue oft'.te the j
- Emperop'ot Russia, relative to French pro- ferei
, perty. . "view
■> The transcript above referred to* A
d " His Ru (fian. majesty has, according, to y on
d official account, given the so.lowing law, aired
under date of iithofjune: . ! tiow
" Being informed that the French have q ua '
a laid attachment on all v (Tels load;d with have
d Ruffian goods, even laying in ticuzral p ;rts; and
I in consequence of We order, that the
'' in all Ruffian ports an attachment will be hut
II laid on all Frtuch merchandiz. s, without °"ly
lC taking any notice in w idt ve fills they may difa'
0 be loaded, or to whom the said merchan- trap
dizes belong." deci
,s Upon which Mr. Bourne remarks, That he 1
n the arrette of the French government, t" e
>• which has given rife to the above oider, and fs'
n to which it infers, he does not recoiled to f ricr
d have ieen': but that the transcript seem to the
m bear the mark of authenticity. , e '^ a '
y I met
Amidft the general diftrefs*vhich has per-
(• vaded the Continent during the prefe.it sea- ca
'y son, ihe ruiad dwells with p'.eafure on the '
cmifpicuops iiftanccs " * -'
beral hy-wW vthe'm 'ha'
and the men of wealth,
at a body, have ev ry where difiinguifhed vn y
them elves. Such instances of sympathy, , cou
in united with the will to grati'y it, refieft
id on the individual, enlarge
n, or dlffipate narrow views, elevate the public
re fer.timeut, avid extend and illustrate the 11a.
w tional glory. (
P" ~
n- There is little dou-it that CondiS and
e- Kilchell arc eletted to represent New-Jersey
Id in the next Congress. »
at . reti
of A finefloop ofwarj called the Port/mouth, ; n ,
im building at Portsmouth (N. H.) under a f„g
ce government contrast, to'carry 22 nines 011 f
lin one deck, will be launched in the course of jj ai
two or tlyee weeks. f IK
FEDERAL ELECTION. jvo
Notwithstanding in the middle dates, a s O ,
fel Leib and a Livingfton, have been returned p r
!a t to Congrefe by the arts of fa&ion, it is pieaf- ] or
1 a i"g to 'hat in the extremities of the ; n
iat Union, men seem to be returning to a right ' n jj
nd sense of their political dignity. In New
:d l HatSpfhire the federal phalanx of their last t ; 3
„' r . representation, is uaanimoully re-cle&ed.
re . Id Georgia numerous indications present ca
themselves of a radical reformation. The
following merits notice for its bluntnefs, and ce
point. N
Extraß from the presentments of the Grand
Jury of Glynn county at their lafl Term. th
last We present as a grievance of the -firft wl
u& magnitude the oppofitioi ofourreprtfenta- co
hat tives in Congress to the wife measures of the
the Executive, and lament that finch condwft
c >» (liould so materially injure this country.
he ft
■ of Charleflon, Sept. 27. th
Iled Yesterday the United States brig General M
has Pinclney, intended to mount 14 a mis. and
0 f to be employed as a cutter to this port,
was launched from the (h'p yard "Mr.
William Pritchart*. The brig Unanimity, oj:
son and the British (hip Boflon, lyi'g in the g 3
[V|r. stream, fired salutes on the occasion, ly
t a . , dc
,^ er On the 23d inft. a machine house on the bt
this p' 3ntat,oa ot Henry Middleton, Esq. was G
.flruck by lightening. Fifteen negrots were ~"
killed 011 the fpo', and seven wounded, The
riTl _ n other of ons of the negroei killed, on bl- £
'lit i'g to ldofthe affair, was so ov<Vpowered p.
and b y tllc relation, khat she iuftantly expired. J,
sat The following is the letter which Mr. Gerry 4 -
ow " received /VowTalleyrandPerioord, h<
( ' ct y before his departure from Pa-is: fp
t: \ U - Paris, 4/5 Thcrmldor, fjjly
the . . w
cor , Pleasf. fir, to me to lay particu- ' N c
F his i ' ar ft rt '" s on the two last paragraphs of
ion- T"« r " n f"'° r °f 'h e 2'd ir.ftant to my letter •'
j-„p. of the 24th Meffi lor. Easy as it m<ty be c
. ca f e to reftify the prcCedi.tg 0r..-j, to attempt it
phis would be retnraing to no purpofc into the-
circle of digrtffions. It is but natural that >
~-lng I fliould feel what, under the exiling c:r- R
cumftances, you imagine yru may owe to j>
erc!i I y ouf ' government, and this co"fideration ■_
/; „ v | would alone fuffice to stop me, if I set a.less /
their ! value on the attainment of a conciliation. j
this i ou a S a ' n obftrve to me, that the go- i,
" this ! vernment of the United States has 'nvari- c
, e to | ably been difp-'fed to fettle by arbitration \
, w [jl! the differences thit fubfill between the two r
rize. 1 republics. This new affiirance, at a mo
,y c 'f ment when it holds out the appearance of
point I hostilities, cannot but moderate their cfFe&s;
Lace hut let a si. cere, loyal, and truly friendly
Jr j„_ aft fpecfally realize these diipofitions.
Though they are far from beim? very pro
minent ir. the anf.vers of the Prafident to j 1
, tj,;, the addrefTes that have been prefentrd to
loard to him fr-m the diiTerent parts of the Unit- 1
com . Ed States, it is a pleasure to me to discover "
dated ' n 'hefe .expressions nothing but political
time expediency. .
, at j s . I do not, however, augur less favourably J
lirers the rial intentions which you profefs in '
its name, and I would not have requested '
you to guarantee the firft proof which it '
shall be willing to give of these intentions, I
S y nfl r if the executive diriftory, that was r f ady |
ef k receive you, had not adopted a fixed re- |
' fo'ution in that refpeft.
he renewed at Paris, where I flatter myfelf
29. ycu expirieuccd votUing tut tokens of j'
... • • • V- • *t
' j friendlhip, and wher: a frienJly and honour- - me 1
| able reception (hall always await an envoy eft.
who pofT.fTcs your good qualities. Joh,
I am ignorant, more'Qver, fir, why you Phit
(liould lay that it is neceflary to lop off D«r
from this negocia ion. ever^jpreliminary re- 'Job
f< ire nee to a loan, and cveiy explanation St.
refpetiing <he speech delivered by the Pre- I't'l
fident. , Do but take the trouble to peruse Jan
» the propositions which I transmitted to you
-on the 13th of Jutie, and which contain all (
. the ideas of the French government, and
you cannot discover a word in them that
. jullifies your recunog tb th.-fe two quef
. tions. An odious intrigue had got hold of .
r the dignity of thi business; the dignity of 01
c the governmeßt could not brook this inter" •' a
. ference, nor woul j.it fuffer the purity of its
•views to be degraded by such an a(Tociation.
As to the preliminary measures which
j yon have fuggeded fir, the government has
, already anticipated your wi(hes—informa
.' tions which they have lately received, ac
e quaint them, it is true that acts of violence
h have been committed against the commerce
; and the citizens of the United States, in
l the Antilles and on the coast. Do them
, e bu't the jt) It ice to believe, that they need
t only to be informed of the fafts i: order to
j disavow all the proceedings that were con
t'ary to the laws of the republic, or to its
decisionS' These grievances arc abwt to ,
it be rec'rtfieJ, and orders are goingjout to
tiie islands, to reduce every thing to itsle
d jv|l Ull the mutnent arr ves wlien a 1
o friendly arrangement between France and -<—■
0 the Unjted Stat.s (lull have refpeftively re
ellablidiW the two countries in the enjoy
i ment of their treaties. 1
r . This moment"iir, cannot arrive too soon.
j. I cannot cease to regret that you have been [C
, e so reiuAant to forward it, convinced as I
alwayiarti, that you e ijnyed full powers to
j. that efFt£t. i •
; Accept my best wifkes for your happy
j voyage; and the assurance of my perfeft ~
.. coufideration.
;»1
ft C. M.TAI.I.EYRAND PERIGORB.
? e
G AZETIE MARINE LIST.
id
e'y Halifax, Sept. 15.
Thursday evening the Prevoyant frigate
returned here from a cruize, and brought
in with her the ship Bernftorff, laden with
a sugar ; (hip Little Mary, witli Molafles and
011 sugar j brig Free Mafcn, ditto; brig Wil
°' liam, ditto ; and fcho6ner Harriet, with
sugar and some ca(h. These five vefleh were
part of a fleet of upwards of 50 fail, from
from the Ilavannah, convoyed by three or
a four armed American veflels, which the
Prevo)'ante fell in with on ihe 26th ult. in
as" long 79, lat. '29, bound for different ports
in America. Three of under Da
[ht ' n ifli colaurs. , y
vv " -Ye(|erday arrived his nr.ajefty'a, (hip The-
tis, from a cruize. 1
L Sunday arrived his majesty's (loop I.ynx,
nt capt. Hall, and Driver, capt; Seater. o
h* * Tuefdayarrived his majesty's packet Prin- n
cefs Royal, capt. Skinner, in fix days from J
New-York. ' f|
Ind Ti'e privateer fitted out at Liverpool, in j.
this province, has taken a Spanilh brig, (l
irft which has arrived at Liverpool, laden with , v
ta- cocoa antj cotton. ,1
the rl
Boston, On, i". I
This dav arrived (hip Frankllh, ChnfTee, fmm -
Sailed June, in co. with ir
the flips American, Henfhaw, for New-York ; c
:ral j Minerva> CJardrter, for NeW-"Bedford, narte'l e
and with them in lat r.r, N. long' 37, '-V. in a gate; e
jrt (ailed fame dav, hrip Rntliy, Simmonc, for t'
14' P.nfton. I.eft 1 here (hips John, Incjirfham, of g
■ ' i Charlednn, to Ml in ten days ; Sally, Lov-I 9
of B >ftony to fiil in iz d.'ys ; Luay, Meaks.
t' ie Salem, do 51 days; Four SiHers, Kay, Bever- a
ly, dn rz davs , Xcptune, Weft, Providence, P
drt 7 Hays ; j Jafeph, Fe't, New Ynrk, do 4 (lavs; '
the brigs Nep nne, Barr, Salem, tolail in 10 days ;
was George, Howland, Philadelphia, do 8 days;
?ere , Tenkins, Newhnr\port, do Ij days;
Fhe li'°P Nincy, , Salem, do ir diys. Left ,
,5 Elfine ir the 15th July, un ler convoy of llire- si
En?lirb flnnps of war, with t' e En*ji(h fleet ;.
' re d parted with them in the North Sea the l;th t-f ,■
d. July. In lat 4;, N. long 48, W. spoke brig f
Rainbow, Gardner, ,p days ont from Gotten
hurg. bousd to New-York, all-well. -Inl-i*.
RY 42, N. Long 64, W. spoke with a fifh'na: fehr
», hound to the Cape, who informed that he had j
spoke the fime day, with the ship Comrr>er-e, j
from Sjt Übes, bound to Newhw yport, out 12 }
weeks, (he had, in agale ofyrind the i+th Aug.
icu- !pi the captain and two of her imfts. I
iof jiime day arrived, fchr Jiai captain Ja-nrs (
ltcr
i r be Augnft i6:h (hips Ocean, Coffin, New-York: <
Carrolton. Oardner, Bilti Tiore, to fail in a few
"■ days l, AUigail Hammond, Boston ; AlHeniarle c
£ he" Marfchalk, New.YoVk ; Areih'.ifa, Giithrie, '
that New-Yoik ; Mary, Nye, Baltimore ; tiberty
c:r- liainage, Philadelphia; Charlolle, Grenfield,
e to j"ft arrived in the river from New York ; h'igs
tion Nancy, Field. Boflon ; . M'Keiver, Phi
r ladelphia : Bnfy, of Silem, in tlie
lc s river; Ichrs Phenfx, Gaie, Bufton; lUbella, ,
Jones, do. anH fiirp John, Purnam. Salem. The
go- brig Hizard, Rwherts, failed 1 a days before |
vari- cant. W. f>r Bofto'n. Spoke a. long. jS
1 tion W. (hhip Four Siftect, Rev. 63 days out from
two E lfioetir, bound to Beverly. j
mo
r ■■■ ■
re ot
JJj* TO THE PUBLIC.
' ons- WE wlnofe names "arc hereunto
to | fubferibed, refidentsnt the Camp (J&afk-r's
•d to ' Fta ce ) oh behalf of owrfclves and the other
j n ; t _ persons there, who vottd at the ele&ion,
, over on Turfday last, by whom we are individu
i'ical a "y suthorized ;do (in refutation of certain
(rroundltfs reports spread about to the pre
ably judiceofthe Com mi' tee, and others among ft
,f s j n us, and injuflice to ourselves) declare with
e ft e( ] the fulleft and (Vricteft truth, that no kind
,j ( j ( of persuasion was used »ith any of us :o
ions g"e our votes in favor of one fide or party,
j„ on th3t occasion, more ilias another—but
re '_ that having been f-.vcral yeafs acquainted
' _ with the charailers of those we fuppoi ted,
. nd having eonfulted amo.:gft ourfeivrs, we
sos B ave our vstes according to our best jtidg-
•r ' ' " • ' •* ft. -» ,
•» fiKßt, wi:h6ut hope cr fear, persuasion i «u«
y eft. i
John ZeUer, Will,an WMitit,
u Philip Warned, Samuel Hyndmait.
Ef Denial Roberts, !7 c^n Hateher t '
Jshn Bur on, • Thtmar
H St. John HarOty, Thcmat Bctagb,
Benjamin Du Hey, John DouiiU,
c James Mm thews. ,
U - , ) 111 > • ,
|| CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
, t v For the 17th Oftober.
[ f '• - 'ADMITTED.
Ann Giles Donald M'Donild
James Grant Sarah M'Curdy
DIED -
Nancy Regan James Grant "
John Dail)' Sarah M'Curdy
J6 Remaining in the Hofp'tal 76, 33 of whom
are on the recovery.
Interred from city and fubnrbi "f
, _ City Hospital 4
: f Total 11
JjJ PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Chrhstopher' Darr ah, Steward.
By order of the B >ai f1 of Managers.
, WILLIAM JONES, Pnjidehl.
Attest, Timothy Paxsov, Clerk. •
TWENTY-SEVEM new cases of the
prevailing fever, reported for the last 24
horns ly 1g phyficiftir-.
id —; ¥
■ e . List of till the Burials 'in the feiervl Grave 1
y. Yards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as iaf.cn f-OM-the bobks kept Ly
, n . Clergymen, Stxmpt,&c.
en fCoileftcd for the <!' ,:rttf of the Unitcd
1 I Stat-**, by R >Bt T RT P/!XTON.~\
to p~* ~
Names of the Burial Grounds. 2 M
py 3 .
■ ChriftChurch - - - - °i 0
St. Peter's - - - - , 0 0
St. Pauls 00
Fir ft Prefbvterhn - .»
Second Prtlbyterian - - - 0 0
Third Prelbytenan ...
Sco's Prtfbyttrian - • , - °| 0
. Afiocinte Church ... 0
St. Mary's Church - - - X j 0
TrinityChureh ... ° t o
Friends' - - ' - - 2 | 0
Free Quakers' • - - 'i "
'ate Swedes' - • - - - c i 0
£ht German Lutheran - - - 2 J 1
ith Oermati Reformed Presbyterian 2 '®
and Moravians' - 7 c ! 0
[7* l Baptiita' ... - 1 o
. , Metlvodifts' . •
' Univerfalills' - - - - 0 "
jews' - - - - 10 ©
om City Hospital -' . - - - ri , 0
:or Kensington - i - - *1 0
the Coates's - - - , - - 0 0 .
orts Total for the last 14 hours 23 1
Da- j
A French Classical Mathematical
SCHOOL.
WILL be opened cn Monday the 2 2d. instant
at that large commodious rooih for
occupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's .Alley, Nr.
>rin- nearly opposite the City Tavern; under tae direc
tion of s. Smith and Chandler fcorh of liSe
rom ral eddcr tion, and long experienced in their rc
fpeiHve profeiTions— they in'ecd under, the
1, in patronage of a discerning public, permanently
>rig, to eftabhih themselves.in thi> undertaking their
whole fludy and a terttion will be dj voted to the
iinprcY mcnt of their pupils,— These will be con
duced upon the latoft ; n ! mod approved, p'n.nv
through, a complete conrfe of acaf -mical fludies,
ortVfe partsonly that ma fie pointe •out ,as rticre
ia:ely sdaut *o rncir particular views in i r ei
from Certain pi'rtioi.s of their rime will e afiigned lor
wirlr hiltory,extra^ a , coT!pofltton, and de
ork ; clamarions in French and English, in order to form
irred early habits of writing and with propri
'a'e; e y—Vifits from parents and literary
, for tendering: ti ex re a fplrir of emy'Jlio*, will be
1, of gratefully received. The hours of (ludy are from
nv . | 9toIIA.M. an i from 2tosP. VT
*aks. Tl\ev offer to tranflatethe Ettg ifh,French,Spaniftv
•ver ' Portuguefe.langua cs; and to t'.rai? in their
proper modes and stile, all kin of writing,
j ! tlier cowuiercial, or epuVilary.
\ ' I htf firft Monday in Nov, nl>er, they also pro-
' pose toopenan evening fchooi for French Vo.>k
-21 s ' keeping, furveyiug and mttHMon, ot which they
vs r ' have a pr.idrica! as well as knowledge,
r* As a numher of French genrlemeix v.,i1l attend, the
• :,rc ' % ftuder.t-of their 1 nguAge. by coiicinmaUy couvcrf
inj with them, as will as teaches, will ac
th cf q U i re afonz with the prinrinle*. a facility of ex
prefßon.
"7- AVIS Airx FRANCOIS :
1 **• . .
fchr Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont
er e > propofent c'etablir une Ac*demie en Korris alley,
□ t 12 j preTque v» -i-vis -a Bourse ; dnns la
queM" on erfeigncra L Latin.-. An?loife et
Fra;iciife : tiqt'e, la tenue c#t ivr.s, la
aTirg Geographie et les Matnermtiques.
there O.) fait auifi.routes fortes de dan* les
ork : d»tc v s lan^ues: ct le'condchcz les par:icu!iers,
a few Qu'on Y'adur.ff.* a I'hotel tie Mr. Valkttc aa
narle coin cc 4cme rue ct Cherry alley,
tlirie, October ly. . cod tf
bertv t
field,
hriss TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
Phi
, . T>ESFRTED lad night, a fccond tim\ from.
' 0 1/ tie Mar:*, Camp, })aviJ Lvprr, a fit ".
* ' He had when he went away, a plain 1 lue jacket a d
. veft.light-b'ujoveralls,a ici* id hat,which hadbem .
■eiore (joaud with yellow, ana which he had ripped off
S' ■' J in hi«fiifl deftrtion, and a pair of new fines, he it
froffl a Carpenter by tradr, ha* grey eyes, fardjr hur
f,il!o.v complcxtou and a nitch in hi 1 , upper n'j.
tiis back, is illII (ore from a flogging he got a fr>r
days ago. He may bo difcov.red by lu- fifeing,
, as he piays extivmely well.
W. W. ilUrt.K.OW : i il4jar Gom. of the
Marine Cordis.
C&oher 17.
unto
iftcr's
other 0- The Subscribers to this Gazette
Sion, residing in, end near Gennanknvn,
jrtain are respectfully informed, that their
: pre- papers will be forwarded (daily Jto
ongll Mr. Samuel liichardet, in German-
Wlth tarxn ; where a lis: of their names
kind will be left.
us :of
— bot Madeira Wine.
unxed
, A few pipes of umarkably fine M ADEIRA WIVE.
' fit for immedbieufe, sod at a "-ducid pti e—For
'S, we' fair by jAMtS KAK.J3.
jtidg- july *s* eottPROPOSALS, ll
BY THI - j t
Injurance Company of North America, j
For Insurance agairft Fir», on Dwelling- '
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and ' 1
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from I
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firft 1
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout ]
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous ■ I
rifques a larger premium will be required, which (
will vaiy according to circumstances, feidom ex-i <
ceeding one per cent, per annum ;"but in some in- .
ftancLS, where the property insured is not in
itfeif extra hazardous, but rendered still more lb
by the vicinity of extra hazafdous buildings and <
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumstances. ,
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and perti- ,
tions of which are wholly of done or brick, well |
«onftrufted, so as to be guarded as well as may be
*gain(l fires from within, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcuputtons in their neigh- (
borhood, wijl be deemed hazardous- of the firft
cla/«, and njay be insured te their full value,
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o! an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount r.ot ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfnm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an
tioaal premium will be reoniredi in proportion to 1
circumstances..
11. Infiirances will also be made on buildings and
good* extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned ,
to thu risque. But it is itot easy to arrange these ,
tinker p;.r'icular he?.ds or clafTes, so as to.d<feribe j
each with the necelfary accuracy# Each cafe must
theicfore be decided upon according to thecircum- ,
stances attending it; and these circumstances wili,
in ger.pr.il, appear from the description accompa- 1
uying ttiCapplication.
Ba.Llings partly conilructcd of briclc or (lone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
hot h ca<-«, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpetft t» goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exy fed, cither
to commence or to increase an accidcncal fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal, or to be flo
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight; and the premiums mufl be
proportioned accordingly.
lll.'i'he fallowing condition! are to be under
stood l>y the parties.
lfi. I'he lofurance is not binding till the (tipu
lated premium be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
feciial from thd time of such payment and accrp
*. ■•nice' thereof, whether .the policy be immediately
flgned or not.
2d. Ir.furanccs may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
perfesthan the payment of the premium of the re
newed term.tlij circumstances continuing the fame
as (hey were tin Jerftood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of th<i premium is eiTential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the Expiration of the former insurance, beforc'he
pay»"a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can tlje insurance be renew
ed 011 the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeA of insur
ance may neyerthelels be open to treaty for a new
iiifuranc?.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mult be made known at the time of
application,, othcrwife the policy made on such ap
plication will be void. \
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
raay he,infui<dss such in a separate policy; but
the) arenot t« be considered as insured etherwife.
5 J>. This company will not be liable or accoun
tal.ic for any loss or damageoccafioned by any tor
c _m ii.vafion, or hy a«ny military or ufuiped force
or by pealun of any civil commotion; oroccafion,
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
lilte kind'kept in the building, or amongst tile pro
perty insured. ,
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title D«ds, Money, Bank and other pro
miffery Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels,' gems, antique
curiolities, or mirrors exceeding thi valine o£ twen
ty-five dollarseach, to becoßfidered as infuredune
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7-h. No insurance will be made for a Siorter
term than one year, nor for a longer-term than se
ven years. Pcrfohs choosing to infsre for seven
yjirs lhall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LplTes sustained by firesn property insured,
(hall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A fciiptiou of the property to be infurod will
be expected with each application, to be made by
a i.ialUr carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by tliv owner of the building 01 applicant for in
fnra ce, and attefled beffcrc » Notary or principal
Mrgiftrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
. parties and their credibility.
With refpeil to Houses and other
if). The site and position ; describing the
ftreec or rpad on or near which the building
ltands j its contiguity to water, and other cir- •
£uinlVar,ces relative to the extinguishment offire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are established, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
jd, The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outlide walls as infi'de or
partition walls, and their refpe<£)ive height and
(hickneft s the llyle of the roof and of what
materials; howfecured by battlemeatsor par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies ; whether .any arid
what eleAric rods.; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for.afhes.
3d. Ihe dimenfitins of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the *ge and condition of the building,
a lid how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pole ; also aneftimate of the yalueof the house
or building independent of the ground.;
4th. Tbe situation with refpedt to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leaf) one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied Or improved, whether as dwel
> lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sed in the house, or within the distance afore
fcid, and of whjt kind.
in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
1. A • eneial description of the building in
wt ich they are kept will be expefled, timilar in
all clc, as to tiie danger from lire, with that
retj'wr.d tor Insurance on the buildings them
l'clves.
a. A def. ripticn of the Kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in cades or oiher packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
yiiXii or in :hi aiiul fcrtn for retailing. Acd
if the goof's vary materially in kind, a general !
el'Jmate of the value of each kind propoted to
be inlured ; but in the la(t particular minute
nefi of defcriptiru is not expe<Sed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
I t in whatever building they maybe placed, viz.
, pitch, tar, turpentine, robn, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammablefpirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened
k Gljfs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
t packed; Looking glafles, jtwelery ; and all o
s ' ther articles mars than commonly inflammable,
1 . or rr.ore than cemmonly liable to injury by fud
- i den removed of hy njoiftures, or particularly
- obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
1 Letters post paid, directed to the Secretary of
3 the Board of Direilors, will be duly attended
- so. An order so* lufuranee accompanied by the
' means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
tke application contain an enquiry only, it will
be.answered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
j OJicc of the Insurance Company of Nortli )
America ; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1798. 5
a Feb. 14- lamtf
I Mills, Portage, Sec.
1 TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
3 ""•
3 r T~O be leafed, for a term not lcfi than three,
i. nor more than seven years, a V ALUABLii
1 PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
3 Onondago, and Sato of New-York, on the Banks
E of the Soneca-ttvir, two miles west-os the Cayuga-
E ferry, «nd eleven miieseaft of Geneva.
I This establishment consists of an excellent grift
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
'» age or carrying place, with between thirty and
" forty acres of land, under geod improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may Be required
'■ for future improvement.
II The grift mill Is a handsome, new and well fin
- ifhed building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 stories high
? an* furnifced with a run of excellent Burr stones
0 and another of Efopuß' (tones, of the bell quality
•> —and the most approved boults, &c. ealcuUted to
r make all the different qualities of flour for expor
r tation or for home confumptiori : ItUacceflifele
J water from every part of the Cayuga lake ani fe
>' neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake-i-antl
- from its situation, commands a veryextenfive and
- encreafing custom : The dream on which it Sands,
e being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never ke in want of water ; and as it has been kept
- working during the ferereft feafor. of the lait win
ter, it is not liable to We impeded by froft :
The law mill is also new, fituateil on the fame
- ftrcam, now furniftied with au ample stock of
- logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
s' cured by land or water, of the best quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for theufe
• of the miller, is new, and fufficiantly laige : The
- barn is about 40 feet fquar«, and entirely new :
The portage is 3*4thsof a mile in length, along
e the Seneca-falls—over which were passed in the
e lat year, nearly two hundred boats with their
t contents ; this objedl j s already prod«6tivs of a
d handsome income, which must be increasing and
r permanent:
e Among the many advantages of thisfituition,
J must be numhered tbe fertility of thefurrounding
- country—beingthe bift improved part of tl)£ coun
e ty of Onondaga—the concentration of intcr
n conrfe by land and water, the Geneifee ftateroad
- palling through it, as well as all water carriage t6
v Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a mo 3 eligible flaa 1 for a Store or
e Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fiflj and
>f fowl, and the country wiih deer aud oilier game.
1- Besides the mill* already erteled at this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
t> maybe found necetTary—Fulling mill, batk mftl
it tannery, forges, &c. maybe ereited at a small ex
pence—lron ore may be brought in boatslromthe
- Cayuga lake ; and it is thaught to abound in the
- neighborhood.
- The (lock on band w : llbe fold to the lelfee, and
1, the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may be fold
- or let the prcmifes.
- If a purchase should offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premifesitwillbe fold.
F»r term* of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wrt.-
- eclmos Mynderse, at the S«neca falls, or to the
; fubfcriOer, afSchenefiady.
e _ STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
June 15 2awim
. Federal Mills,
A DJOINING Georgetown, and the City of
r JTx. Washington, will be offered at Public Sale,
on the 10th day of S«pt«mber next, at the Union
1 Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale.
Thofe millsin point of situation for bufinefsand
natural advantages are generally admitted to be
r equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
. a large brirk house, eighty feet by fifty, aimoft
' new, in which are ereited four pair of Burr mill
" ft ones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
~ cloths, Complttely finiftied and co'nftruitcd in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu-
failure flour at the fame time. The country mill
s which is ereited near the other, is entirely new,
" a strong stone building, containing one pair of
' (tones, and built in such a manner that the fecotid
e piir'rnay be put -up with litete expence. ThiamiH
is conveuicdtly finilhed, and calculated to carry on
extensively, country work, of which it gets a con
e (tant supply. There is belonging to the said mills
S 27 j acrts of land, the whole of which will be
'•' fold with the mills.
e One third of the purchase money will be requir
r ed in (ixty days from the day of sale, and for the
d balance a liberal credit will be given. Furthur
1. particulars willbe madeknown on the day of sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWJLES,
if • Surviving partner of
r JOSEPH E. UOWLES Co.
d Georgetown, july 13. —-awts
; l _ LANDING,
e At South Street wharf, the cargo of the ship Con
necticut, from Batavia—
if About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and X 795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
t In cannifters—for sale by
)f FETER SLIGHT,
WHO ALSO •FFKRS FOR. SALI,
j* 150 hhiU. choice Jamaica Sugar*
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy ift and 4th proof ia pipes* hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pip«s
Old Batavia Arrack
>r July 1 §
lt FOR SAJ.E, !
'1 A onthe road leading to State Island,
±\. within four and in halfmilos of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in the highest state of cultivation
e- —25 acres of whi-..h is meadow, the remainder up
r" land. There arean the premises, a new frame House
y and Batn, with an excellent kilcben garden, contain
-- ing a great number of frit Tree*.—lmmediate poflef
c. ton will be given.
For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis,
M julyiS. No. gßSouth Third llreet?
n To be Let,
l " An airy three Story Brick House,
3 f M the South fide of lilbert Street, betwe=n
s Eighth*nd Ninth (Ireet, formerly occupied
Ip as the Surveyor General's Olfiee- Esquire at No.
r j tit, Chefr.ut Street.
itguft 10 eojt
1 DUTY on CARRIAGES. • F
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an of Congress of the
United Srates of America, pafied at l's»ila- i 'Si
delphia the 28th day of May, 17 ; >6, laying du- jt
ties on carriages for the conveyance of persons, aod ■ la
repealing the former a&s for that purpose—That j t v
thrre fliaJJ be leried, colleSed and p-iM, upon ail , j,
carriages for the <r»nvcyauce of perfoßs, which •
fhallbe kept by or for any pcrfon, for his or her
own ufc, or to let out to hire, or for the convey- £
ing of pafiengcrg, the feverai duties and rates f«l-
lowing, viz. dolls,
For and upon every coach 15 Q ,
upon every chariot J*
upon every post chariot l
upon every j.oJt chaise 12 *
upon every phaeton, with or Without top 9 11
upon evcTf coachee 9 "
upon other carriages, having pannel}
work above, with biihds, gjaffes, > 9 0
or curtains )
four-wheel carriage*, having 0
frame polls and tops, with steel > 6 P
springs 3 !)
upon four-wheel tojs carriages, with "> f
wooden or iron firings on jacks J 1<
upon curricles with tops 3 v
upon chailcs with tops 3 p
upon chairs with tops 3 ft
upon sulkies with teps 3 ( [
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 ' n
noon two wheel carriages with (teel") i,
or iron springs j * q
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 1 e
upon every soar wheeled carriage, j
having framed polls and tops, ( 2 t
and resting upon wooden spars j
The Colledor of the revenue ol the firft division
of thefirft ftfrvey of the di(lri»fl of Pennsylvania, 1
will attend daily until the 30th day of September £
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriages, at Germantosvn, cn the Main street, a a
little above the siS" of the King of Pruliia, el '
which all persons poffefled of such carriages are v
defirtdto take notice. '<
Notice is a!fo given, °
To all retail dealers ip wines and foreign ii Willed
spirituous liquors, that licenfqs will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying bn the biifinefs ( of P
retailiiig ot win.s in a less quantity, or in lt-fs c
uniting, than 30-gallaak—ami one licence fcr "
airymg oii.tnp kmfincf.. v f retailing ffwrtaMau-Us. ~
quors in iefs quantities than twenty gJlons, at the °,
fame time and at the fame place, by E '
JAMES ASH,' 0
Collector of the iit division of the ift
Survey of thediftriiS cf Pennsylvania. ll
Office of Infpeflion at Gcrmantown, 7
lid August, iyjß. J tl
gj" Kvcry denomination of Stamps to be had f(
at laid office. d
£3- The Stamp Press is removed t!
to the Office of Infpeition in CJermantown, on the 3
Maih .• reet, a little a6ove the figa ot the King ol n
Pruflia,—where attendance will be given for the 0
accositnodatioß ot those who wish any inftremsnts c
(lamped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Satordeys., ri
ugUFta «ti c
tl
For Sale at Public Au&ion, 0
ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in a
Alexandria, on the t6th day of O&ober »:
next, if not fold at private sale before that time.
One of these lots is near the end of the whirl, !.
twenty feet beyond which the water is two fathoms 1
deep, atout forty feet cut three fathoms, fifty feet ''
out the water is four fathoms, and grows deeper
until it comec. to the channel, whicli is about fev- :i
enfv feet from the end of the wha.t. There is ''
as much dirt to the bank as will level
the wharf, which may want raifirtg about a foot '
neat the end. There is in this sale an half acre lot "
very fit for a tavern ; it i> will watered, and an ex- <>
cellent Hand for that bufmefs. This proptrty will t
be fold for ready money, and altogether or fepar- n
ate, as may best fu:t the purchaser ; it lays on the fl
lower fids of Alexandria, which is now improving t
very faft. A iketch of the ground may be f.en in ,
the hands of rfie Priater hereof. For terms at j;
private sale, apyty to Wm Hartshorne, or to f ;
the fubferiber, inAlexandria. i
JOHN HARPER. v
September 3 iawßw |.
Wants I'.mpioyment, b
A YOUNG MAN, who hasferved a regu
lar apprtliticefhip to the mercantile bull
nefs in this city, wiffies to engage in a Conuting
hotil'e oroffics, writes a good hand and under- '
Hands accounts, can be well recdmmended and b
security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
June 11 3awtf
iilfcifcenridge—for sale %
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the refiden.e of the late
E«1 of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Thvra are on ita number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andja fmallexpence Would
put U in complete repair. ,
The orchard consists of 1500 fin«bearitig engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said t
trad near 300' other Apple Trees—as also a great •
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the 1
best and moll delicious kinds. c
Also, a great number-os beautiful Exotics and ''
Forest Tict>s, that add to tha beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles t
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frsm Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield It
is wooded and watered. C
To fayc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ia cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN &' Co. <
No. 78, Chufnut treet.
ebiaary a. eodtf
— t
Patent Ploughs, ,
TO be fold for earti by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and JelTe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
iefs team, break the ground better, are kept in
erder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much Amplified and consists of
. but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and 1
beam of wood j they may befixed with wrought '
lays and coulters to be pat on with screw? and 1
taken off at pleasure I
Patent lights for vending with inftrailions for :
making them may be had by applying to John 1
, Newbold, or the fubferiber No. au North c
, Front-Sreet.
1 Who hat for Sale;
; Qr to Lease far a term of Tears,
A number of valuable traa» of Land, well
. situated fer Mills, Iron fVorks or Farms, mnft- ,
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon slate of Pennsylvania. Those who may '
incline to view them will please to apply to 1
John Canaa esq. near Huntingdon. ;
Claries NewbolJ. 1
j u, y I 1 sawtf <
FOR SALET
1 j aV THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. ELKV F. NTH-JT RK E T
iB Bags Fresh Cloves.
WiUingL Francis.
J"" »9- dtf
1 1;
AN ACT _ .
For the relief of the Refugees from the British
provinces of Canada and Nova-Scotia.
„ (j E it enacted by the Senate and House
Sec. I. Q j Heprefentatives of the U^ted
Stairs tf America, in Congress isffembled, 1 hat
' to fatisfy the claim, of certain persons claiming
: lands under the resolutions of Congress, of the
; tWftiVy-third of April, one thousand fevea hun
drei and eighty-three, znd the thirteenth o
April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
five, as refugees from theßritiih prowncesof
Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
rized and direfled to give notice in one or more ■
of the p<il)lic papers of each of .the States ot
Vermont, MafTachufetts, New-York, New-
Hampfbire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav -
ing claims under the said refolotions, to trans
mit to the Warviffice, within two years after .
the paffitjg of this aft, a just and true account
of their claims to the bounty or CongrcK.
See. 2. And be it further enaiied, That no
other persons lhall be entitled to the benefit of the 1
provisions of this as, than those of the fr.llow-
Ing defcripti>ms, or their widows and hpirs, viz.
Pirft, thole heads of familie?, and Tingle per
sons, not members ot ar.y luch fanji.ivs, who
were rcfidents in on: of the provinces aforefaid, ,
prior to the fourth day of July, one'thoufind ,
seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban- 1
doned their settlements, in cowfequence of hav
ing given aid to the United Colonies or btates,
in the revolutionary War agaiaft Great-Britain,
01" with intention to give fitcli a'ftl, and continu
ed in the United State's* or "in their fcrvice, dur
ing thf said wa;", and did not return te 1 reside in
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, 1
prior to the ; twenty-fifth ol November, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. Se
condly, the widows ar.d heirs of all such per
forts as were aiSualrefidents, as aforefaid, who
abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and
died within the United States, or in their ser
vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
sons who were members of families at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
during the war, entered into their service.
Sec. 3. And be it further enatled, That the .
pro«f of the Tevpral circumCances necefi'ary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this aifl,
may betaken before a ju<?ge of the f'uprcme or
diftriil court «f tlje United States, or a j'Jdge
prTliriTrj-vcTßc K r lufierior court, <ir jaf
tice or firii j;idge of thFCfeuciof corotnon pleas
or county conrt of any State.
Sec. 4. And bt it further enabled, That at
the expii ition of fifteen months from and after
the (if tills adl, and from time to'time
thereafter, it (hall be the duty of the Secretary
for the" - E>epartment of War, to lay f'udh evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
tl\e Secretary and Comptroller ps the Treasury,
and with them, proceed to examine the tetti
mor.y, ind give their judgment what quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the Individual
claimants, In proportion to the degree 1 of their
refpeflive services, facriikes ar.d fufTerings, in
confequeflce of their attachment to the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
claf6 a qoantrty ftotexceed; gone j
and to the !afl clafj, a quantity not exceeding ,
one himdred, making such interieediate clafles
as the resolutions aforefaid, and diilributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congress. Aud in cafe any
such claimant ftiall have sustained such loflss and
fufTerings, ot- performed such services for the
United States, that he cannot justly be clafTcd
in asy one general clsfj, a separate report fhill
lie made of his circuinftances, together with the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
laving reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in confi'Jering what CQBipen{iiti»ri
ought to be made by virtue of this ail, all grants
except rtiititary grants, which may hive been
made by the United States, or individual States,
shall be considered at the just value thereof at
the time the fame were made, rifpeflively, ei
.her in whole or in part, as the cale may be, a
Jatiafacliojf to those who may have received the
fame: Provided also, that no claim under this
law, fliail be assignable until after report made
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands he granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this aft.
Sec. 5. De.it further enatled, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this a<£l limited, lhall forever thereaftef
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentati-ves
TH : JEFFERSON,
Fiee-Prefident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, -rfpril 7, 1798.
( JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deported among the Rolls in the office of trfie
Department of State,
Timothy PicKcring,
Secretary of State.
Pursuant to the above Aft, No
tice is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the pa flirt; of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftritt atten
tion must be paid to the reqv.iutions of
the 2d and 3d Settions of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of JVar.
July 19 jaw6w
AURORA OFFICE;;
OSober 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
that THE AURORA was not to be rc-publifliea,
—1 he public are hereby refpe&fully informed
that the want of hands alone has its re
publication feverai days ago; but that such ar
rangemeuts are now making as will aflure the ap
pearance of the paper in the course of the present,
or the firft week of ttfc next month.
CAUTIOW. L ~~^
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me on the firlt inft. fey givipcr
rae inlieuthereof aforged check on the Bank
of North America, anote of that date, drawn
m my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thousand tour
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are delired not to re
ceive any transfer of it. as it will not be
paid by either the drawer or endorser unless
recovered by law. .
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
august 6.
This Day Publijhed,
And for ("ale at tlie Office of the No.
119 Chefimt-llreet,
(Price i-itb of a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in comtnem irition of the anni
verfiry of American Independence.
By JOSI ah $>VTNcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we havefuftained,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wis
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to'disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to 1 the
present."
Qbsetvatians on the Boston Port-Bill, &c.J>. y$
by the late J. putney, jun.
{ anevft ti
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
June 47, 1798.
Notice is hereby given, That by vir.
tue ofian ait, palled during the present fef
-1 Con ef Congrefi, so much of the a<ft entituled
| " An Ad making further provifioh forthe fup
-1 " port cf public credit, and for the redemption
" of the public debt"—palfed the third day oi
March, one thojifand (even hundred and ainety-
I live, as bars from settlement or allowance,
Certificates, commonly called Loan Officeand! ' ~
final settlement Certificates, and Indentj of In
ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth day d,
June, which tvill be in the year one thousand levea
, hundred and ninety nine.
That on the liquidation and fettletnent of the
fiid Certificates, and Indents of Interell, ot the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
, Certificates of funded Three Ifer Cent. Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of interest due on. their said Certificate:., prior
to tlie firft day of January one thousand seven
, hundred and ninety one.
| That the principal-Turns of the said Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interest
thereon, fin ce the firft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one', will be dif
' charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
' payment of interest and reimlnirf-nient of princi
pal, equal to the (um> which would have been
payable thereon, if tlie'faid Certificates had been
fubferibed, pursuant A,the Adls rnakinj; proviflon
■ forthe debt" of the Imußj rf-ui - -
irg the late war, and by the payment of other
funis, equal to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by fucli
fubfevtptions asaforefaid, which market value will
' be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
' Secretary of tbe Yreafuryl
lavrti'
" ~ General Poft-OfEce,
| "pROPOSALS for carrying the maih ef the
-*• United States on the following routes will
, be received at this office until the 20th day of
f September next indufive.
t 1. From FJittlburg P. by Canaonfburg, Walk
; ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills-,
r .town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creekj
j otltAe Muflcingum, estimated 140 miles.
Leave Pittlburg every Friday at 4 p. m. and
. arrive at Zanes the next Monday by BP. M.
Returning— Leave Zanes every Tuelfta'y at 5;
| a.m. and aorive at Pittfburg the next Friday by
t io A. M.
| 4. From Zar.es, at the mouth of Licking
I Crtek on the Muflsingum, by Chi]icothe and
; Malfey's to Mayfville in Kentucky ; estimated
, 140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tuesday at 5 A. m. and
1 arrive at Miyfville the next Friday by 10 A. m..
[ Returning—Leave M&yfvi.lc every Friday by H|9
1 2 P.M. and arrive at Zanesthe next Monday byw
, Bp. M.
The carriage of the mails ta commence on the
day of November next and continue until
the firft day of CKSlober 1800. Payments will
• be madequarterly. '
The usual penalties for delays and failures wiU>
■ be stipulated in the contrail.
! Jofepb Habcrjham,
Pofl-Mafler General.
Philadelphia. July 13, 1798. m&th6w
HEALTH OFFICK
Philadelphia, ljt Mey, 1798.
Extraift sf an aft to alfer and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, palled 41b April.
1798.
Se&. 8- A 1,0 !t further ena&ed by the au
fx. therity aforefaid, That every house
keeper within the city ef Philadelphia, the town,
(hips of the Northern Liberties and Moyanunfing,
and diHrid of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mitsol the. city, taickjg in boarders arrivisigby sea
or by land, from auy foreign port or place, and ha
vinganjr boardsr in his or her family, who (hall be
taken sick of any difeale whatl'oever, between the
firft day of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
d'r "~' a " co "" e to lodge in liis or her hatffe, Cjall
- within 44- hours next after the knowledge of fucli
fnjkriel's. make report at the Health.Office of the
name of fach sick person, the I time of his or her ar
- rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
j and ef the name and place of abode of"filch house*
keeper; whereupon the Phyficiar. of the Health
) Office (ball forthwith vifir. the patient, and report
. to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
cafa, that measures may be taken to prevent the
L spreading of the-infeflion 5' and if any housekeeper
(hail negled to give information in the mariner and
within the time aforefaid, and (halllie taereof con
t v'ifted, in anytourt Of criminal jurisdiction withia '
this Commonwealth, upoi: in distent b]>
or confeflion, he or fee (kail forfeit. and pay a fine
■ to the use ol the said hospital, not lei's than twenty
p dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to bu
imposed at the discretion of tSe court, according to.
thecircumftances of greater or less aggravation at-,
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM.ALURN, HealthOdicer,
. iaw jm of the Port ot Philadelphia.
The Public are hereby informed,
T 1 HAT ( did not mean to authorise Col. WH
iam Nichols to declare, that I would 110 c par
, un ers recovered by law, my note alluded to in hi*
caution of the 6th of Augull, pubiilhed in the Ga
zette of the United States of lit evening. I C„_
cerely lament hi, bis, and t.ld him I would .'a
all 1 ,'ould do consistently wiih my credit to f e rv«
him. hut went no iurchcr.
JOHX TRAVIS,
august f
M ails fir South-Carolina iff Georgia
3 P A p C K, ET i '"7 0w P r °y(ded for carrying the
r , „, u 1C " I,llsb >' water between Phih v't lii*
i s£*»% "7 wi "ffias
on F.ulay ». The post by land will becr.ntinn
ed tu-.ee a weeK until an experiment is made in
regard to the expedition and teeularity of the
' fen r''J- / ""J 7 ? erf °" Chuf " t0 bave the!r
c letters by land only, they will please t»
" Wr r ,e ' A .° rd L "P on the lett-r s : oiher
: ''mc a 1? e icUt lj y that convryance which
1 p 'll-«ffi!e lherth: ' mc,S art ' !eft in
Jo/eph HaberJhaxij
, Poft-Mq/kr GemcrL
1 hUicj ha, Augufi 13, i' 79 ij. jj
' I 1
• ■*