/ V ~
' '
#&3CttC otitic WiXilttU AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Ward Fenno, N c - 119 Cbefnut Street.
Number 1946.] PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12, 1798. [VOLUME XIV.
CJ- The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars £er annum to Subscri
ber* residing in the city of Philadel- <
phia. All others pay one dollar ad- y
ditional, for encloftng and direding; *
andunlefs fomeperfon in this city will
become answerable for the subscrip
tion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance.
For Sale,
*§I3S*BOSTON PACKET, q
Htfitwcs Cowpkthwait, Matter,
"burthen about 2,5 c© barrels, a goed strong
Ship—has excellent accomm odationsfor paffcngers,
' may be sent to fca with small cxpence. She is lay
ipp at Mifflin", wharf. For further particular en- J
quire of , *
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith 8c Ridgway. Pr
November 16 s*"
tr~r Saul {hip, if not fold on, or before the .tth
iuft. will on that day. in the evening,
be rffered for sale by public auflion, at the mcr
ehants's coffee hsufe.
Smith & Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
dec. $■ .
~ FOR SALE, r
fBE SHIT J
PERSEVERANCE, t
James IVtlliamfon, majlcr.
Just arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- -
ladelptiia, < f live Oak and Cedar, copper sheath
ed in London, burthen 310 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CO WSI ST I NC Of 5
151 Hoglheads and 50 barrels Sugar
260,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
, and baps Erf
31 Puneheons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO,
■ TIIE BRIO '
Jack:, ;
R. Williamson, Majter. j"
FROM St. Dorumgo, with her cargo, confiding of ' n
43 hogsheads of Sugar, a'
Arid 40,000 weight of prime Coffee. hs
likewise,
iH| AMIABLE MATILDA, ol
1 %£&&&&& MOUNTING ta Guns, burthen
two thousand two huudred barrels of cc
Irkmry acoa pleat order.—Apply to
Thomas John Ketland.
November 13 $
For Sale.
f
THE Suascßi/iKH. intending to decline the fc
DIvUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the Jt
whole Stock of g
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &•„. (o
The {hop is elegant, commodious, and fuflici- ,
ently known for the extensive business cone in the r
wholesale and retail line ; the (ituation equal to r
any in the city, being at the cui ncr of Walnut and
Second llrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will bafold, as will bed suit the purchaser.
The terms may be known, by applying to
James moore, jun. 4
Wio has For Sale,
Well calculated lor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3©tonsburthen, 1
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in b<
good order. j n
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forthc lumber business.
SjS* A" persons indebted to the late firm ol
Goldthit'ait ts* Baldwin, IV. B- Goliithicait, Gola
tb-jtait Is" Mian, or the fubferiber, are earnestly '
requested ta make fpeeriy payment to 1
JAMES MOORH, jhn.
august 3 §
; - BOSTON BEEF;
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order.
rOK sale ev *
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aorth Fronijireet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD ST(h/T VESSEL,
Of about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov ar iD 4 t
for Wilmington; t
North-Carolina,
TUB SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
WILL take in freight on very I*o
- terms, and fail about the
2;th inftar.t. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's wharf, 01
fillings hf Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 §
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sailing csid vieX
!?k>4}Kj accommodated She?
SSS SWIFT-PACKET, p
Patrick Ghibbsn, mafltr.
A con It ant trader, will fail in a few days.—
For freight or paflage apply to the matter on
board, or N. {3 J. SRAZIER, J
No. 9j, South Fiont-ftreet.
dec 4 di W
MA YOR'S" OFFICE
REMOVED to South Second-flreet. b
42W
FOR SALE,
The fajl failing Schooner
M|thref sisters,
is now ready to take a cargo on
board, luppofed will carry 600 or 650 barrels.
ALSO, A SMALL INVOICE
JAVA COFFEE,
SubjeS to drawback,
Enquire of
JEHU HOLLINGSWORTH Co.
No. 47, Penn Street
dccember 11 » dtf
Ship Caffius at Audion.
On WEDNESD next, the 13th instant, at
6 o'clock in the evening, «-Hl be fold by auc
tion, at the merchant's coffee house
The (hip Caffius,
lying at the navy-yard, whh her
milt-, yardu, as they now are, fails,
?35£> v ' as per inventory, whieh will be
produced at the time of sale ; anchors, rigging,
and cable, as they now lay at Smith's stores a
bove Race fireet. This (hip is copper bolted,
and coppered up to light-water mark.
This flup is a fall sailer and is pierced for 18
guns.
FOOTMAN & Co. au<£li»neers.
dec. 8 tw
For NEW-TORK,
JLs THE BR,G
ANN MARY,
fe44"J capt. Mukpht,
FREIGHT will be taken on very .
maderate terms—apflyto
Joseph Ant/jtmy is* Co.
dec. 10 ' d3t
Ship Broker's Office,
And Commijfion Storey
No. 119, South front Strfft,
Next door to she Custom House.
THE Subscriber, encouraged Dy the advice of
his friends, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
ing thereto—afiift maflers of vcflels and others
in entering and clearing at the Ctvftom-Houfe,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters. ,
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopeß to be ufe
ful to those who please to favnr him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
November 19 §
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY;
Burthen 4400 barrels of Flour,
Philadelph-a built, well found
fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in few uaye —(he is pierced 1
18 gun«, and mounts 12 new fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
p—» THE SHIP
DIANA,
Bur'hen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
•~ r * a nd cedar, it pierced for four
teen guns, tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
TJjSfßurthen 1,300 barrels ef Flour,
"New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
MCKLJS £s* GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundty vejfetf at Mjrcbs-Hook,
12,00 c bufhcls of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bulhels of coals ,
286 crates of queens ware affortei k
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
1 quantity of yellow ocre in ca{ks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
3 j boxes of pipes *
S; b T br h oin 5 HAVANA SUGARS
3,5001b5. prime cothineal
3 barrels New Orleans/indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
20 bale" of fail mnvafs
379 (heets of copper, assorted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 incnes
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guns 44 feet, Btfwt each
14 do. 4 feet, i-cwt and 4lbs each
jo barrels of gun powdier
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mollins and ihawls
14 cases miiflinets, dimities and grnghams
»8 chests coloured nankeeas, muflinets, &c.
11 trunks printed calicoes
, 6 baits of white and coloured cadi-meres
1 bale of course woollens
English nails assorted.
Odober 27. fri.&fat. tf.
AUGUSTUS FRICKE7~
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer
No. 7, fnuth Thirdjlreet,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the last arrival frum Europe, a large assort
ment of tbe fafhionable Goods in his line.
And has conjlantly for sale a general assort
ment of
Firfl: rate London fuperfine Broad
Cloths
Crffimercs
Veil Patterns of all kinds
And every other article in the gentfemau's line
by wholesale and retail.
December xo dtf
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING FROM XO. 8, CHESNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in fieri
near Tbird-Jireet.
Whtre he has for Safe
250 Bales of Bengal Goods j
CONSIST!xc or
Csffaes
Baft as
Mamoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. 13c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Confifling of Woolens only,
THEM ARB,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Ru-m,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof,
nov 10 J
REMOVAL.
George Dqbson,
INFORMS his friends and the Public in general
that he has removed from No. 25, South Third
Street, to No 92, South fide of Msrkct-ftreet, near
the corner of Third Street, snJ is how opening
a very extensive alfortment of
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the ships William Penn, AwiaMe, and Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas ]
from Liverpool, and will b«- fold low for cafli,
or approved notes &t a short date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caffimeres, fafhionable colours '
Yorkfliire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfcy beaver, for Spencers
Jeannets and Tabby cord^
Velvets atid velvetteens
Velverets and thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linsa checks ■
7- 8 .and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts , « , ]
London chintz and chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz lhawls
Silk dq.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worGed hose I
India and Britiib muslins of every dcfcyiption
Black and white orape
Tifany and paper fans
Hats assorted in'l'mall cases
Umbrcllki 1
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French canArick
Cam brick muflius
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 §
For sale by the fubferibers,
A FEW BALES OF
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales Bengal muflius
ao do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
20i pieces Russia sheeting <
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of cassia
30 tons Petersburg clean hemp
25 pipes, 3 year 6 old, fineft particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of iheathiug copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. 26 daw
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velveretts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Brussels and Persia caipetts
Buttons
For sale, for cash or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 243 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. 16 StJani
LANDING,
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Master, from Cape
Nichela Mole.
23 Baits Socks and Flannel Drawers "1 Cfl
18 Do. Gaiters j 5" fT o
2 Do. Rugs ' ■="
1 Do. Havre Sacks ' £ ° ™
2 Do. Flannel Trowfers 1 3 d ""
a Do. Tents, j vp n S
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain Webb, from
l.iverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to Cuit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas isf John Ketland.
November 7 §
Now Landing,
From on board the ship John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of Jeffe & Robert
I Wain,
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the firfl quality in bags.
: 150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifters.
Nov. 23 dtf
Bond Sc Brooks,
Cornik or Market and Sixth streets,
HATE RECEIVED,
by the kte arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARCE AND OENERAL ASSORMENT Or 1
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now opening for sale, at the most
reduced prices, for cafli or the ufa&l credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO let,,
That large and commodious HOUSE, no. 39, t
south Front (treat, direflly opposite the Toft-Office, <
together with the {lore and cellar, on the Water- t
ftrcet fide. Enqaire as ab'-'ve.
nov 17 5 <
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambro' calks, for 1
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS. p
Nov. 30. codtf
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing eft South Jlreet wharf,
FOR SALE BY \ 1
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAI.E,
ERANDY, rft and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, See. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
JtJl imported in Jlj'tps William Penn., A- j
miabls and Jean, from London, t
A quantity of Cannon ,sizes 4,6 & 9 lb. "> with balls i
Ca>ronades, 12 lbs. 3 fuitabl?. 1
Mufquets, MufquetoonSjCutlafles and") » 1
Pistols, for {hips use, | ]
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, I g "
and Horseman's Pistols, I
400,000 Flints, chiefly for muikets, in J gj*
ke 2 s \ . J « ,
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 50 sach, '
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlaffss, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in casks, a general as
sortment—For Sale by
Thomas & Jno. Ketland,
Philad. o.Sober ij. <
Just Arrived, l
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimstone.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF ,
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Sesna, ,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper 1
Sweet oil in bottles and flalks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L SD.—ltalian lutestrings ' ; 1
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand, 1
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Olpd Madeira Win? of the firft qutlity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 1 § 1
Genteel Boarding & Lodging,
IN A SITUATION. ,
MRS. M'CREA informs har friends and the
Public, that (he is prepared to accommo
date several Gentlemen, wi.h genteel Buarding
and Lodging, at No. 17, Filbert ftrcet.
Nov. e8 drf
Evening School.
S. L E WIS,
INFORMS the Public that his EVENING
SCHOOL for Young Gentlemen will open
for the Winter, on Monday, December 10, at 1
No. 2C'T Arch-ftrect, near Sixth.Street.
dec 7 d3t 1
~ IV A N T^TDT
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a refpeiSable private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office,
dec 4 dim
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jamxs
Tbompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
street daceafed. are dtfired to m<ke payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have any demands
against thefaid estate, are requelted to fend in their
accounts duly attcfted for settlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON,7 Adminiflratrix.
JOHN THOMPSON, J ridminiiirator.
Nov. 13 dim
James William Miller,
No. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
.ditto, White, Red, and Yellow IrtiH Flannels,
1 Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guzzines, and other
muslins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets, thick
setts and fancy ccrds, sewing silk and twist of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
India flag bandanoe«, and other black and colour- '
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cott«n ,
do. Soutc romals, red Gills handkerchiefs, mo
1 leens, foan spinning. fuftians, beavers, jeans, fa
tinetts and royal ribbs, also muflinets and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
Nov. 21 di<n
l ______ 1
John Dobbin,
BOOT Ess SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY his Friends and
the Public in general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South Second-Jlreet, nearly op
-1 polite the Merchints Coffee house where gen
t tlemen maybe ftipplied in the neatest and bed
manner —be affnres those who may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
, or exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders receivod Will be punfluiUy at
tended to.
November 5 £
FOR SALE
By tbe Sub/cribers,
ON VERY LOW TERMS
WAX CANDLES,
Of A »urT*inß QUALITV,
Either by the single box of »4lbs. or by tjie quan«
tity.
Wi/li/igs £s" Francis.
Nov. 34
N~O~T I C'E.
ALL Persons indebted to the E/late of doc
tor Hugh Hodge, deceal'ed, ire requeued
to make immediate payment —and those having
demands against the Estate aredeiired to authen
ticate tad present them to.
MARIA HODGE, admini/lratrix.
SAM UEL HOD GDEN, adminijlrator.
nov 20 1 §
Notice is hereby Uiven,
THAT application will b; made a) the Trea,
lury of t'i« United Spaces, forthe renewal of
the fallowing certificates 0/ Funded Debt, ftand
| irg in the name of Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea,
| l.cndon, thefaid Certificates havingbeen forwari
-1 eJ by the (hip Ellice, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuppofad
to be lo ; .
No-11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1:96, t-r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for (loVJars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
November t8 rtftw
Notice is hereby Given,
That be made at the
Bank of the United Slates for tha renewal ol
the following certificates of Bank (lock. Hauling
in the name of Hodglun Atkinlon of lniidott,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and *1!
perfont concerned are defn edto take notice
No. 2424, issued in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3020. iflued in lieu of 11055, and
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 (h^res.
THOMAS M EUEN & Qa.
Nov. 18 d^m
N OTIC E,
ALL Persons hating claims 6pon the Estate
of Jamei Thorburn, Stonecutter, deceas
ed, are desired to present them for payment—
and those indebted to pay their refpeiil.ve bal
lances to
Benjamin W. Morr'u, admimjlrator.
jiov 14 3aw3w
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No« 54, South Front #reet t
where they hsve for fa le, as usual, a large and g®»
• ncral aflortment of European and East-India
DR7 GOODS;
mo(l of which have now arrived and are landing,,
from the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
I'heir Coftomers by applying will find almost
£very article ginfxally - and fli ai |
prices for ca(h or credit, as they cm be had else
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, »
conCgnment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. I, 1798. dtf
Millenery Room,
No. 136, Markat Street.
THREE orfcur young women who are well ac
quainted with the Milienery business, and
1 can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed.! y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. »6 £
Englifti wrought Nails.
Imported in the Jhips Molly and Diana, from
LIVERPOOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
CONSISTING ot 6d, Bd, lod, iid, and
2od, flat points suitable for the southern
market—6d, Bd, iod, nd, and aod, fine drawn
(harps—also a, 3, 4, and 6 clouts— fprigs—
tucks—fa upper nails-*fhcathmg nails,
FOR j&AL E BT,
Robert Denifon, junr.
127 Market-street.
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nail; aflorted
20 bales ef fail canvass, from No. I to 8
j 3 calks yellow ochre
i j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. ea(;k
London particular ) . ....
India market 5 M * de '"
Teneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
OU Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineti he.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand IO coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and prelfes
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine
160 bundles Iheathing paper
Nick/in £s* Griffith.
April 7 turh&f.tf
Ten Dollars Reward.
STOP THE RUN AW AT.
ON Monday the 3d instant, ran away from
the fubferiber, at Woodbury, in the coun
ty of Glocelfer and state of New-Jersey, a
NEGRO ROY, named PETER, about 17
years old, about 5 feet 5 inches high ; had on
■ wticnhe «ent away a light broad cloth coat,
and an old pair of linen trowfers. He was for
merly a flaveto George Hazard of Suflex coun
ty in the state of Delaware, and was in July
1794, by him bound to Wm. Clark, of Phila
delphia, for 14 years, he afterwards was own-
I ed by Peter Grahl and George Deehamps, in
. the fame year, and in 1798, he became thepro
' per of Stephen Sayre of Bordenton.
Any person returning the said Negro to hi*
| mailer, or securing him so that he may be had,
(hall have the above reward, and all reasonable
charges paid by
J JAMES B. CALDWELL.
Woodburry, 6th Dec. 1793.
N. B. The said boy has also the mark of z
ring on one of his forefingers. He was seen ir»
the streets of Philadelphia lalt Thurfdav morrb
'"B* i[e°4tTHE CARGO,
Or thb Ship INDIA,
Captain Askmhad, from BATAVIA,
Consisting of j "
JAVA COFFEE, .|i
Ot the fit# Quality—'e be .Sold, by
MOROECrtI LEWIS.
, dec II j '' lW _; "
Bank of North Ameriea. r
w h
THE Stockholders aic hereby notified, that an | h
EleAian for twelve Directors, for the ensuing J
year, will b« 1 eld at the Bank on Monday, the I L
T4th of JanUarv h *t, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD Wl-XLfi, Calh'r.
T>rc. (irF.l
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
H \ LLOWELL <Sc R HOA D,S I j
BEING this day diflolvcd by mutual confcnt,all
pcnous having demands again(l T.iJ l'irm, ar»; dc
i'jrcd to briwg in for fettWment, and
t')«iev4)o arc indebted are requeued to make' jm
mediate payment to Ssmu»l Rhoads, who is au
thorized to rt-ccive the fame.
E. HALLOWELL
SAMUEL RHOADS. \
dec. I *> (
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER S,
T4 four pound Cannon, l ifferent lengths, j
i Carruuades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
Decrrrber t. $ 1
A quantity of choice 1 imothy ilf Clover t
HAY. {
F.nquire of tlie Printer. j
r 7 j
For sale by the Sub/cribers, i
The Cargo of the Schooner
StNCF.RiTy, from LAGUIRA, (
150 of eotron t
40 of sndigro
.<22 of e(»coa
tos6 hide*
4 bundles of gum
6 ° !*** , \ COFFER
30 oarr< is \
I bale of Deer Ccini
Witlings & Francis. \
(IfcembT Tc. 1798 dtf
"All persons,
\ T WINC. ci-iims againfl the Estatf of
tl SUiz/A'A ytH LOCKrER, dereafed, are
rtajnefi' d t • their refpeftive accounts to
NATHAN A. SMITH, "1
JOHN DORSET, j Ex " u ' or '- (
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
l.at'lv r.crnnwtd bv Snfi'trnth Lockver, tnpether
-with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be diipof dos Time will be given for
tile latter on un-excepttunable feeurity.
nov 7 .-jaw
NOTICE.
\I,T, p ff ins who have any demands agaifift
the ellate of the late Wtm ui Clifton,
<! rraied.and who have produce! their ;
ircounts, arc requeftflJ to feni them to the
fuUcriber at no i7i,north Second street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, Bov. 19, 1 798 m&th4W •>
All PeiTons
lr i'-bt d to the bllate of HENRY HII.I-, deceased,
art r.-qilefted to make payment to the fubferiber j
nr.d those having any demands on the fame to pro
duce their accounts for fmtlcment.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no. 139, Market dree
Philadelphia, dec. 4, 1798 cots
L O S T,
TN one of the streets between Union and Saf
' lafras, on the <th iiiftant, the outside Case
i.f an V.Hjjlirh Giild Watch, chafed on the bask
with a shield Any person who may find the
fame, and wilt bring it to this office, will receive
) our Dollars reward, and the thanks of the
wivr. '
d'-c. 1.
Just Imported,
li.v.i catlnon, diublc fortified, Woolwich proof,
with thnr carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
udders.
. t-ro'ijdes, xfroolwieh proof, with carriages, See.
.-(Ar.plete—ft, 18 and 14 pounder*.
('Biirto* powder in kegs of ijlbv each
ito'.tml, double-headed,and eannifttr
iheathing copper, bright, alfortcd 18.10,
■js, 24, 16 and i 8 or per square foot, flieets 48
bv j 4 inchu, fuitablc for vvfiels from too to
iopo tons
('"iTt-r nails, bolts afld fpikcK f
"n t'ikes.
cutlalTis
<>; i nen ftrr««f all kinds
!'in-pUtcs No I—l-31 —1-3 cross h"xes
'.-at nt Ih'-t in caflts of scwt. each
;. >n4on porter and '■town fto'it, in calks »f 7do 2.
Urrtled.
Farrhen ware ia crates, alTorted
Far Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street.
it). eo.tf.
JtiJi Imported,
A quantity of falt-pctre, refined
Gun powder F and double sealed bailie
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burton Beer
Muilard fqnares, 4 ounces
scil Durham mustard
Ginghams, fubjeil to drawback
Mi of which will be fold on moderate terms by
HSNJiY DA VIBS, junr.
No. q t, south Secoud flreet, opposite the
city tavern.
'IOV. 0 mw&f ft
Hats Ssf Hoiiery.
VVIiiLIAM M'DOUGALL,
at firs sroRF.,
No. 134, Market Street,
-f'TAS JtIST OI'ENED, in addition to his for-
CjL mcr stock, a very extensive afTortment of
, iVo'fc Women's, and Chil ren's Hats, and all
l iii lsol Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
-1 p'een knit Hose, suitable for the present season.
• . -; } e° ' m
J capital Hand for RuCinefs.
TO BK RENTED,
fiVTI POUSESSION Qt v EH,
(HI tl* 'ith day of February.
• 1 ""Hp Pour Story (irirk Ilnofc on 1
1 the South rtde of Market, Water- 1
• at prtfent occupied as a Tavern, by Tho
, Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the ufilc'e
' ;»
.. 5 *** j
• /<
MARSHAL'S SALES.
| Umt-d State J, }j- =
Pti.nryHvinia Dill, id, J ' '
, TiN (unl'i Liter of a writ to me direifled from
i A ii,r iion Richard Petrrs, Elquirr, Judge of
! the i)i'<rn£t Court of the United Stares, in, and
| for the Pennfvlvania Didrifl,. w ill be cxpol'ed
I to Public S«ile, at me worrk.-n*'» CoiTee Houie,
| in the City of Philapelpliia, on Saturday the
* 15th day of t'ecembrr inltant, at ii o'clock at
noon, the armed French veflel the Jaloux, with
her apparel, guns, and apurtena «eS, captufed
| bv t(ic public armed Ihip the Unitfd States,
John Barry, Ffquire, lommander, in the fa:d
I Ddlrifl Court condemned as forfeited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS Marlhal.
Marshal's Office, Deo. 7, 1798.
Uuitid States "> J
Pennsylvania DiftriS. j ,
IN Purfuaneeof a Writ to mr dire&rd from the
honorade Richard Feter«, rfqtiire, r '
Diitr>& Court of the United Ktstes in and for the a
Pennfjlvania Dilfrift, will be expcfed to pullic f|
fate at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in the City o 1 j.
Philadelphia, on Satur lay the .fifteenth day ol c
Dccrmbea instant, at II o'clock at noon, the arm
ed French reflet, Le Sarfparcn, with her appar»l, J 1
guns, and appurtenances, captured by thj public it
armed (hip, the United Statu, Jhn Barry, efq [
Commander ; and in the laid DktriA Court, con- n
denned a J forfaited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, marlhal.
Marshals Office ) 3
December 7, 179' J F
• United STATES, "> _ (]
Pennsylvania Diflrift. f ■»" 1 v
NOTICE is hereby given that in pursuance of a ,
writ of Fiera Facin to me directed, from 1
the Hon. Richakd Peters, fcfq. Judge of the '
lhdrift Court of the United States in and for the
Pennsylvania Uiflri.it, will be exposed ro public
sale 0.1 Wednesday thu 1 jth infl, at ixo'clork at
nocn, at the Store* of Meflrs. Pratt and Kintzing,
in Water near Race-street,
117 Bags of Ccffee.
The lame having been seized and taken in execu
tion a« the property of Ferdinand Courdeu, atid
to be fold by
..WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marlhal.
Marlhals Office, Dec. 7,1708.
\ THE SUB)CKI3ai<J,
Of the City Dancing Assembly
ARF. informed, that theFirft Aflembly will be
held «iiThurfday the »oth iaft. atMHotel.
Thomas W. Francis James Gibfon
Thomas Ketland Jonathan Williams
Mathevj Pearee Stephen Kingston
William Macphrrfon Samuel Murgatroyd
GOOD WAGES
WILL be given to a fervajit Man, who
can bring a good recommendation, and will
apply at No. 131 Walnut-flreet.
,dec. 11. dtf |
Wants a Place, s
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk, 1
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street, 1
Dec. 10.
" WANTI-.D,
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN,to take care
of children,fhe must be well recommended
as gpod temper, honesty, fobriery and cleanli
utfs.—Enquire at No 158 Mak« St.
Dec. to, 3t.
This Day is Published,
AND FOR S A LIBYJ.FEKVO, liq,CH# SNUT-|i *E*T
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
' ON the origin, progress and prefmt slate qf
French aggrellion, with a {ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the Houl'e of Reprefen
utiv*>. § junell
This Day Published,
And tor sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Ch®fnut-flrcet,
(Price i-%th of a DoVar,J
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of th.e anni
verliry of American Tndependeace. .
, By JostAH Quinct.
1 " The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wronp we havefuftained,
. call tor—"Justice. That Reparation and thit
Juftise, may yet he obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmvesj. But to d\vide and conquer was
the max:m of she Devil in the garden of Eden,
1 and to disunite and enslave hath been-the princi
' pic of all his votaries from that period to the
> present."
Obseryatitns on the Boston Port-Bill, vs'c.p. 78
by the late J. Quincy, jun.
y atiguft i(
Charles Campbell,
W AT C H-M A K ER.
HAS femoTcd to the Shop formerly occupied
by Mr. John Wood, No. <5/ corner of I 1
Frontand Chefnut-ftreen ; where hewillthank
fully receive and execute orders with neatness
and dispatch
HE HAJ CONSTANTLY ON HAND, /
A Neat and Large AfTortment of
Clocks y Watches.
WANTED,
A JOURNEYMAN
ALSO, one or two Apprentices of rcfpedlj
ble parentt.
FOR SALE,
A large quantity of Watch Glafles
Wholefetlc and Retail.
. , nBV »♦ 3 awtf
JOHN SHIELDS,
broker.
Embraces this opportunity to present his thanks
to his fello-u-citizens for their pafi favors
and acquaints them that he is returnedfrom
Chefnut-HiU, to bis former refidenee, the
House TV®. 11 Chefnut bet-ivecn Front
I and Second-street,
W hR * E ready to execute
VV their commandi in ev®rv branch of his
profetßon, trusting: that from a rcfifWiMe m this
city ot 35 yearj he has it in his power to render
them cflential ferviee, afluring them that his
commiflion (hall be as low as any in Town
Lotts, Lands, Houses, VcfTels, Certificates
of every defcrmtion and U : lls of Exchange
bought and foltf, thedocketis carefullv exam
ined titlrs made upon the Ihortelt no* I (
lice, by the public s humble fervanr,
John Shields. , v
(O* U'wd negotiable Notes discounted 1
| it a low premittm. I:
ncYsou-cr ? jawtf t
%ty j *
PHILADELPHIA, \
WEDNT.SDAY EVENING, DECEMBER i»
From the New Tori Gaztt'e.
INFANT NAVY OF AMERICA. j
'Let there he a Fleet—rind there is a Fleet]
[Aits of the Fed. I'.cgil.
[Extract the' Second.]
11 THE accounts of the Britilh r avy j
are but few until th>* reign of Henry the j ''
Eighth, {1509-47) A. but as the office of j .
Admiral,, was eftahliflied so early as the
reign of Edtvard the First (1272. *3«7) V
and perhaps rf Jo/tn ( 1199, I? 16) an Iwe c (
find Fit? Allen appointed Admiral of Enj- ''
land hv Rie! ard the Second (1377 99) *>>4 ;
' Spelman h.ith given us a lilt of Admirals
from Henry the Third (121 6 72) we may
infer that <ur princei had some ships of
their own, besides the occasional oneu far- F
nifhed by th* Cinque Ports, a. 11
" The firft in fiance I know of, and that P
a curiyOt ore, as it me"tionj cannon em-
pi«vcd on board a (hip, occurs in Rymet's
Foedera. t.il. vin. p. 447. It is an or
der to Henry Somer, keeper of the private
wardrobe in the Tower, to deliver to Mr.
Loveney, treasurer of Queen I'hilippa,
Queen efSweeden, Denm3ik, and Norway, .
who was then sent by her uncle Henty the ,
Fourth (1399, 1413) toher husband in the J
(hip called the Queen's Hall, the following (
' military ftorcs •. I I gu-s, 4c Ulrat pulvcris
pro punnes, 40 pctras pro gunnep, 40 tam-
pons, 4 touches, I mallet, 2 fire pans, 40
j pavys 24 bows, 40 (heaves of arrows, pre j
Jlujfura ejufclcm navir, ordinata pro cula ejvf- ;
dem Re> 'tntt.
" Henry the Fifth (1413.-22) at his firft £
invasion of France (1415) appears to have j
have had two larcre and beautiful (hips cf hi» t
own, with pttrpl# fails, the ore called the
c King's Chamber, the other Lis Hall. Ed- j
• ward the Fourth (1461 83) had fevtral
(hips of his own, which he employed some- t
' times in war, pnd often for trade, in which
he dealt largely. e
' "It appears from Mr. Canning's monu- ]
ment it Redclift church at Bristol, that he
at one time furnifhed this prince wilh 2470
j tons of (hipping to purchase his peace, a- r
mong wh eh were ths Mary and John of 900 ~
ton«, and the Mary Radcliffe of 503 tons, n
- being two of the largest (hips belonging tp
any Engli(hnaan in that early period, that I
know of, though many of that flue, and f
;, larger, are to be found among the Geooefe j
and Venetians at that time. c.\\
"In 148 1, he ifTited the following order: L
" Rex difefto, fibi Richardo Symondcs, [
j magiftro navit t noftrx voc;itie Le Grace de
. Dieu, fahttem. (It should be, La Grace de |
DieuJ. 'Cum nos quandam cormatam po
:• tentiam ad proficifcendum supra mare in ,
refiftentium illius infidelis et atitiqui inimici
r noftri regis Scotorum ordina»imus, affigna ,
vimus te ad tot rnarinarios quot pro guberna- 1
tione et conduftione naris prodiftae neceflarii
j fueriut et opportune, übicunque inveniri po
-8 terunt, tam infra libertcies quam «7ra,areftan
d dum et capiendum, «t eos in nave prsedifta,
• nobis ad vada nofti a defervituros, ponendum
et poni faciendum. f
" Confiuiilcs literx regis patentes diri- c
guntur perfonis fubcriptis fyb eadem da-a, i
viz. Roberto Michelfon magiftro navis rjgis
vocatae de Henry ; Richardo Httbbaid, ma- f
giftro navis regis de Anthony ; Johsnni (
Stevens magiltro navis regis vocata; le Great 1
Portingale, Johanni Hamond magiftro navis
f regis le Spagnard ; Waltero Cokkee magif- c
tro navis regis, vocal Ile Henry A(he ; and i
to fiv« other commanders who had not (hips 1
belonging to the King, but seem t» ha»c 1
been hired. Rymer Vol. JCII. p. 139. — t
I N. B we find that preliing of seamen For
tht King's service was pra£lifed at this time t
s perhaps even earlier. "It appears that our 1
, (hips were now built larger ; for in the car
- lier ftage»of them lam apt to fufpe£t they
e were much smaller, and even confided, for
g the moll part, of (ingle decked vessels, with
one mast only. In the famous Armada of
Edward the fourth (1475) though it con
fided of 1100 vefiels, the men oa board them - r
were only 11,166, very little more than 10
men per veflel ; and though in the propor
j tlon of those furnilhed by Lor.don, we find
f them a little bigger, they do not exceed 16
- men per vessel, even in that class."
s
* " A few Notes(fays the Editor) are
fwbjoined from other Authors, where ther
seemed any doubt or difficulty." (these art
referred to here, by small capitals,alphabeti
cally. Each of thofc I have added, is in
eluded in a parenthesis ; as are the period?
atiwhich every reign commenced and closed:
• or on which any naval event happened. F
is efiential to have these dates present to th
mind, in tracing the chronological progref
s ' of the Objed before 11s; and as every read*'
of a Newspaper may not recoiled them witl
due precision, nor have a regal table at tan
- I (hall be pardoned for the additions I have
made.)
a. The Danes, fay the Saxon Chioni {
t cles, never failed to visit England once h
year for the fake of plunder. In 852 the*,
came up the Thames with 3JO (hips, anc
having nothing to oppofc them, they lan<iec !
near London. They were not content t
ravage the country, but attacked the town ,
e pillaging and spreading desolation, till th'
time of Alfred the Great (872-900) who
m 876 equipped a good fleet to engage then
s at sea.
B. For which services they had many pri
' Vlle g« granted by Royal charter in man
. of the preceding reigns, the grtated part o.
which they (till enjoy. (Under the article
" Cirque Ports," in the Court Calendar,
will be fee„ their military eftablidiment a-
I ar ge. In the Lift of the Commons of Eng.
land, we find 16 Barons as thrir Reprefenta
ttvei i for Hastings, Rye, Winchelfea and I
iScafcrd jin i -r Uovcr, New- n
j K'mntcy at d rly ti'e, in Kent.) ei
c. Through uhofe ports all the spices and
rich treasure* of the Eallcatne into Europe. 1*
Vide Robertfun's Hillory of India.
iii
jforeigit Articles, «
CONTIXUF.n. t -|
LONDON, October 2.
Extract of a letter from capt, James Sontar, y
of the (hip Ellis, belonging to this port,
to his owners, dated B irbadoes, July 3. n
" Since our firft arrival on the eop.it we
have conftuntly been alarmed wkh the report v
los a French fujuadron. On the 24-th of May. j
! l -in at U-ilEi, we were informed by s itlir.
from, Siera Leon, that a French Squadron
were'adually at the Isles de Loss. We con- . f
eluded cur bed means of cfcapin r was to en
deavor to get to the northward of them— ®
lay into Sherbro, and procure farther intel- o
licence -front Sierra with our. boats
looking out on both fides. A few hours af
ter we failed from Baffa; the Pilgrim in com
pany with two small ones, and appeared to
make a (ignal. We kept under the land to v !
prevent them feeing us, concluding they were
the squadron. Next day came to anchor at P
Maffurado, in expectation they had palled 1
to leeward. The night after a crew came P
from Bafi'a, told its that a two decked (hip }'
with 40 guns had taken the Young Ralph "
and St. Philip, off (Harrow, and was coming P
tip aft: r us.—We immediately got under way r '
in company with the St. Anne, Pilgrim and
Jolhua and flood out throe days ; tame back
to MeiTlrrado a,-ain, went from thence to v
Ccpc Mount, and on the 30th lying at f
tape Mount, i'.iwa large lhip coming from 1
th-; fbuthward ; made the . signal to the St.
Anne t® t'et under way immediately. The P
Pilgrim having a copy of ourtignals, got un
der way also.
" As focvn as the St. Anne came up, I
took my station astern of her, finding it was
impodibl" for her to eli ape if I left her, P
thinking better to risque' an action, than bertr
the name of run-a-way, tl'£ Pilgrim being a *
long way astern, (horteiied fail for her to
Qpme up. The French frigate (?.s I was as- ,
tervvards informed by capt. Mentor, who '
was unfortunately captured by Iter) was call- c
ed the Convention, capt. Rolcow, two ''
months from Dunkirk, carries jagtjrts, and ?
20 f men, had taken four ihips. She bore •!
down on the St. Anus and Ellis, and com-
nleaped a brisk fire, which we returned with
all the strength we were masters of. After
a little, finding us rather .stronger than !he c
expected, ihe filled, I luppofe, with an inten
tion to rake the St. Anne. I immediately *
filled jjand (hot a-head of the St, Anne, to J!
leeward and met her, being little more tharw
1 good mulket (hot apart, and received her
uroudlide, being»we!l prepared to pv her
for her trouble. She finding our fliot heav- C
ier than Ihe expected, made fail in a greater F
hurry than fhetook it in. Mv running rig
ging being very much cut, file got out of e
reach of my guns, before I cnuld let my top 1
gallant foils, chafed him till dark, then wore -
round, and joined the St. Anne who was a
long way astern."
October 6.
F.xtradtof a letter from captain Ball, of his i(
majesty's (hip. Alexander, dated Bequier ,
Road, Mouth of the Nile. - J»
" Before this reaches; you, you will have P
heard of the battle of the Nile, for the parti
culars of which I refer to fir Horatio Nel- 11
son's public letter. I only received a flight C
woundbv a'mulket ball taking a piece of ticlli .
irom my left cheek, which will leave a small 1
icar. My lhip was engugad within pistol r
ihot of L'Oi lent when file caught fire, after
which I increased my distance from her, but J"
could not get tar enough to avoid the dread
ful effefts of her uxploiion. She let fire to
sny fh;p in four places, and nothing but the ?
1110 ft wohderful exertions extricated us from 1
that perilous state. 2
" My lhip has received so much damage, 1
that I have not a doubt but Ihe will be'in
England in uVt> or three months. With
iefpeet to our attion I lhall only observe, 1
h.it the admiral and captains had a good a
opinion of each other before the battle, and c
now we arc more attached than ever. Every a
neexerted himftlf alife. i
" Tiie captains have each fubicribed 301. 0
ror the \\ idows and Orphans of thole who o
ell so gloriously on the firft of August ; and
•he admiral li.is joined, by giving tool. The r
iptains have likewise fubicribed 201. a piece
'or the purchase of a sword to be presented b
.0 fir Horatio Nell'on. We intend to eftabliih C
n Egyptian Club, to commemorate the Glo
bus First of August." c
CONSTANTINOPLE, Sept. j O . J
We are ibarching fyll after French repub- t
icans, who are carried as prifotiejs into the a
-lais of the French consulship, guarded by fc
;oo JamfLiries. Frenchmen which i:
*re at Adrianople and Rodofto, were all
mfported to this place, and confined m the r
orelaid palais. j.
In that port, as also in all the harbors of r
le Levant, orders have been ilTucd to fequef- f
r all French merchandize and property, i
Inch has every where been done. The'com- c
iffioner Ruffi.ll, the two interpreters, Dan- t
t3.n.and Franchini, Fleuzat ; the secretaries
ifer Sc 1 idoux—ipd General Menan, who s
merly was in the f'ervicc of tliis govern- '
tent, have all been arrested, and thrown rn- I
ti the prison of the Lower Tpwers.
FRANKFORT, 0.-. 0 .
We have just received the pleating intelli- c
nee, that a number of the French troops i
e 011 the point ofc. leaving their polkion on p
te right fide of the Rhine. This movement
and we bejieve has alreadv ta- 1
en place ; as the head-quarters of the French 1
ive removed from Friedberg towards Wetz
r , and the number ot I-rench troops on
11s fide the Rhine, may not exceed 10,000 .
ten ; but notwi,thftanding tltde favourable
I-iearanccs, cSur pavernment will -preserve its
■varlike attitude, as there is reason to fuf
;>ect tiie luicerity of the French to con Ivde
a peace with empire. Their late jr.tm#-
%
S SS* r n da « »«k ««•
C . ' . J P' n ">nsj however, are various.
Lac . a :, the a sudden
End Wh ° pretend t0 ""dcr
!Swb'"«h lT° re pr : ,tCUtldl >' that a
French republi A
certain, that the reinforcement,*'tol'par
ties continue ft,ll in Italy w h;iA P ?
for public J,r p « d ,„ !«££££
»»«»>% S»ins and P "
A couner from Admiral Nelson ha, arri
vedl at Naples, which he inform, the En
glish ambafTadar, Hamilton, that h,lw
deftrovcd entirely the F '
v c fl>l, .y.ng ,n Alexandria to pref ent cTn
Buonaparte s retreat to Europe.
• The late (I difpatcbes received From Na
pies bring an account also of an unexpefted
lrifurrechon of the inhabitants of Malta a
gainst the French, because they intended to
rob them of the silver work and ornaments
ot ihc churches.
PARIS, September 4.
On the subject of encreafing our armv
with 2co,cco me „ the following proclama
tion, diftatedbyChemer to the French ceo '
pie, was vefterday decreed—'Frenchmen, ir*
the moment that the legiilative bodv, th- ,e
prefentatives of a happy people, reCommtnd "
to you the necessity ot enrolling vourfelves
imperious circuniftances demand c'f us to rtl
preient to you all the advantages which will
reft.lt herefrom. It calk for 200 , 000 ad .
diticvnal men to participate the honor of de
fending their country. ThU U not done
with an kl<* offering a fide the deli* of
of peace, which is ardently wHlied : No—
>t wi/hes constantly for this happy event
whence iword I hall remain among the tro
p.ues ot this nation, which may then
. v lc *° a P?V to agriculture, to fc>
ence and to the encouragement of the {lie
[ arts * * ''f clouds which darken the politic; I
horizon ot Europe, cannot be too soon dif
fered. trance has made every facrifi<e
which humanity and honor warranted. Jn
the midst rt her glorious conquefls, fne h; s
let to herfelf bounds; the has cealed to con -
I'S.t v hen she had it in her power to exterd
ncr virtories. But if we must again have r< -
course to arms, the two conflicted authori
ties of the republic will give the signal for
%ictory. Haftenj therefore, Frenchmen, to
join the armv."
l'o day, we are allured, that in the har
bors of the Mediterranean an embargo has
been laid on all Turkish veffcls. This, how
ever, demands further confirmation.
_ Notwithstanding our republit Auftriacor
tinues to make the most aclive exertions ft r
war, it appears that the negociations on both
fides are continued.
The return of our fleet, which left Brest,
seems to be confirmed. Report fays that in a
certain latitude they met a British fleet of su
perior force.
-The Contir Admiral La Crofle has arriv
ed at Havre to take command of the (hips
there.
The British amhnffador
Hamilton, had his hotel illuminated three
nights fuccdlively on account of admiral Nel
lon's victory ; on this occasion he gave large
sums to the Lazarone, who in return cried,
" Long live England and the British nation 1"
It is a Her (aid that the Neapolitan troops are
preparing to enter the Roman ispubYic.
Our amhalTadcr at Madrid, citizen Guille
majdet has made his appearance again at that
court.
The young men which have been drafted
I in Belgium are i'uppofed to amount to 40,000
1 men.
They write from BrtifTeis that the expedi
tion planned at Dunkirk against Ireland, will
be reinforced by our armament from Havre.
The well-known citizen, and formerly re
prel'entative in the Council of Five Hundred,
Drouet, has been allowed a gratuity of
28,837 francs, as an indemnification for his
lofles during his imprisonment in Auftvia.
| REGENBURG, Oaober 4 .
, The General Van Staader, who is Rationed
I at Friedburg, has ifTued orders, on the rei
[ ceipt of a Courier from Vienna to all the
artillery contoaed at Braunaw to join him
immediately.—lt is said that another body
of 25,000 men, of the Imperial troops, are
1 ordered to be Rationed about Ulm.
I Yefterdav p ifTed through |?ere 2 Imperial
regimenrs of cavalry of Ulialen.
Two Imperial Officers of dillindtion have
I been dispatched from hence as Couriers to
1 Connt Lchrbach at Rafladt.
We are afTured that Gen. Hotze, who
commanded in that part of Tyrol which bor
ders on Graubunden. has received order# to
enter that country immediately on the Frewh
• troops advancing. If such an event dioold
adtually take place in the country of Grau
bunden, war on the part of Autlria ieems
' inevitable.
1 When the RuiTian fleet under vice admi
; ral Ufchakow at firft in the channel •
before Conftatitinople, his men received eve
s ry kind of refrefluncnts and the heft provi
sions, by order cf the Sublime Forte. The
, lately appointed Grand Vizier, Juhuph V'<--
- cha, who has already been twice ij fore ap
- pointed to this station, was also former./
> Turkish an:bal!ador at the court of London,.
5 and is favorably difpoied towards th- Britiil:.
- The difplacemeut of the late Grand Vizier,
- Mahamet Pacha, and the Muftili both of
whom, against the knowledge oi Divan,
wifiied to fee the expedition of the French in
Egypt prosper, and are said to have i'an&ior -
- ed it, took place on the 31ft of August ;
s ' immediately after which the declaration ci
a : war against France was made by the Porte.
t No doubt is at present entertained that a
- triple Alliance is formed between RufEa, F.n
h gland, and the Porte.
- General Buonaparte, after his lam.ing in
n ifTued a Proclamation, whejpin he
o ord iins that every soldier who 1. guilty of
!e plundering or any other attrooty, ot who of
:s his own will levies contributions.fliall be shot
r- and every division fiiall be ref;x>nlible tor |1 e
e irregularity of each individual member,— 'i
>- The oemmiffaries ojily are empwv
i: 1 'er«l to lcv> orrtnHutiort frf; tlu- arniy, and
the mbney kto be plated lmme-iiitefy In th ■ *
Theakerations -aliicli have taken place m a
the coniVitution 01 the Ctfalpinr republic, •
have produced here.much lenfatton : Sine? t
both tlie Qfalpine caunftllorsdsclari that they
had consented to these alterations of the ,
French government. It is, therefore, con
sidered here as an infringement of th: sove
reignty and independence of the Gifalplhe re
public, as also, decidedly against the 7th and
Bth articles of Gimpio Formio. Tills cir- r
cumftance has alio leifened here theexpefta- t
tion of jjeace, and two couriers have lately (
been dil'patclied to our commandant in Italy.
We are anxious here to know what impref- c
fion the continued representations of our mi- |
nifters tQrfliofe of France at Raftadt will pro- t
duce : asTt is therein stated that peace with 0
all the powers combined again ft France ought t
to take place, as the situation and welfare of (}
Europe demand it. It is also said that the n
Turkish ministry, who is lb deeply interefled,
will declare itfelf on this point. I
Last Thurfelay the Turkish ambassador ac- n
cidentaUy pallid one.of tlie most populous
squares of our city, ihe people, who had j.-,
collected in clouds, clapped tlieir hands, and
cried, " Long Jive the Ottoman Porte."—
The ambaflador, not uiiderftanding this, was r .
very uneasy : when, hnwe\-er, the cause was Q
explaitied to him, he commanded his coach to Cl
flop, and alighted, rjid thanked the purlic in
such au engaging manner, that it produced
redoubled applause. d
Apprehensions fte:n to incraale that the n
■ Cong; el's at Uaftadt will not end amicably. j
i'he house bf Arteria Sc C . aie in pollei- a
fion as the portrait of the admiral t
Nelson, taking from the original painting u
by Orme. n
Ttje \
PHILADELPHIA ,
WEt)NESD.AY EVENING, DECEMBER 11.
'This Day the Senate, in a body, -waited on j h
the President of the United States, and \
prefentcd him the following : |
ANSWER. • 1
n
TothePitesiDENT of the Unit ed States, v
SIR, 0
THE Senate of the United States join j
you in thanks to Almighty God for the re- n
moval of the late afflicting dispensations of c
his Providence, andfor the patriotic sfi
*lT, and general prosperity of our country, j
Sympathy for the fufferings of our fellow- t|
citizens, from difsafe, and the important in- a
terefts of the Union, demand of the nation-
al legislature a rjacfy co-operation with the „
State governments, in theufeof such means
is seem belt calculated to prevent the return of
this fatal calamity.
Although we have since rely wished that
an adjustment of our differences with the re- 11
public of France might be effected on fafe
and honorable terms, yet the information
you have given us of the ultimate failure of P
the negociation has not surprized us. In rt
the general conduit of that Republic, we have o:
seen adefigj) of nni%-erfat inttuince, incofTl- ' •
patible with the felf government, and defti-uc
tive of the independence of other ftatrs.
In its conduit towards, these United States,
"we have fecn a plan of hollility pursued with
unremitted constancy, equally disregarding P
the obligations of treaties, and the rights of .
individuals. We ha\r fee;i two embaflies "
formed for the purpqfe of mutual explanati
ons, and clothed with the most extensive and
liberal powers, dismissed without recognition,
and evep without a hearing. P'
The government 0t" France has not only
refilled to repeal, but has recently 0
the observance of its former edict, refpectinp; 0
merchandize of Britilh fabric or produce, the
property of neutrals, by which, the inter
ruption- of our. lawful commerce, and the
spoliation of the property of our citizens have
again received a public fanftion—Thefe fa its
indicate no change of system or disposition ei
they ipeak a more intelligible language than
profeflions of solicitude to avoid a rupture,
hov/ever ardently made. But, if after the P
repeated proifs we have given of a sincere
desire for peace, these profeflions should be w
accompanied by insinuations, implicating the
integrity with which it has been purfued—lf w
neglecting and passing by the constitutional in
and authorized agents of the government ol
they are made thr<*ugh the medium of indi
viduals withoutpubliccharadter or authority i"
—and above all, if they carry with them asa
claim to prescribe the political qualifications w
of the minister of the United States, to be ar
employed in the negotiation, they are not en- m
titled to attention or consideration, but ft;
ought to be regarded as designed to separate in
the people from their government, and to to
bring about by intrigue that which open w
force could uot effelt. flj
We are of opinion with you, Sir, that b<
there has nothing yet been discovered in the
conduit of FwnCe which can juftify a relaxa- nj
tion of the%ieans of defence adopted during a r
the last feliion of Cwngrefs, the happy rel'ult C c
of which is so strongly and generally marked, th
If the force by feaand land which the existing cl
laws authorifr should be judged i nadequate to c «
the public defence, we will perform the in- di
dispensable duty of bringing forward such fli
other afts as will effeftually call forth the tfc
resources and force of our ecufitry.
A steady adherence to this wife and manly ; n
policy—a projxr direltioh of the nob It spirit a l
of patriotii'm which has arilen in our country ; t
and which ought to be che riffled and in
vigorated by every branch of the government, n:
will (ecure our liberty and independence a
gainst all op< n and secret attacks.
enter on the- buiinefi of the present
i.-iTton with an anxious solicitude fr j, the
public good, and shall bestow tliat conlaicra
tion on the several objects pointed out in •"£
your communication, which thev rrfpe-ftively
merit.
Yotir ltinj and important fervicej—your t
tsljnts and iinnrieff i'o often difpluy.d in the ,
riofl tryii'g critical filiiations, j
artbrd a lure pledge of a 7* lous co-operation |
in every irte»i'vrc necessary to tic "J re us jus
tice and rei\-Cl»
, To which the President made the following j
REP L r :
To the Senate of the United States
Gentlemen,,
I thank you for this address, so confcr
irlible to the fpirii as our constitution, ana ,
the established character of the Senate of the
United States, for '.villlom, honor and virtue.
I have ea no real evidence of any change |
of system or difpofitidn in the French repub- ]
lie, towards tli? United States. Although' ,
the officious interference of individuals, with- ,
out public character of authority, is not en- j
titled to any credit, yet it dHerves to be con- ,
lidered, whether that temerity and imp-'i'ti- ,
nence of individuals, affecting to interfere ,
in public affairs, between France and the j
United States, whether by their secret cor- (
refpondence, or othenvii's, and intended to |
impofc upon the people, and feperate them ,
front their government, ought not to "be in- j
quired into and corrected. ]
I thank you, Gentlemen, for your 3 flu- (
ranees that you will be flow that consideration ]
on the several objects, pointed out in my
communication, u liich they reijwetivoly merit.
If 1 have participated in that und.iTt.ind- f
ing, since rity and constancy, which have been
di (played by my fellow-citizens and country
rr.Jii, in the molt trying times and critical ,
lituations, and fuifdldfc-my duties to them, I ■
am happy. The of the Senate of 1
the United State?, iir my favor, is an high
an.l honorable reward, -which receives, as it (
merits, my grateful acknowledgements.- My (
zealous co-op.'ration, in me.il'ures neceflai y j
to lecure us justice and co mid; rat ion, may be
always depended on.
JOHN ADAMS. !
Philadelphia, December 12, 179".
m"r. fenno,
I observe several pieces in Mr. Brown's
paper of last evening in reply to Mr. Cob
! belt's attack upon me—As Mr. Cobbett
j has heretofore thought proper to ascertain (
| the authors of anonymous pieces, he may ;
i take the fame liberty again. I therefore j
think proper to declare publicly that I am . (
not the author of those pieces nor do I know
who is.—When any attack (nail be made up-
: on me which will require my answer, it will
not be given by anonymous publications— i
My defence will be accompanied by my '
name ; but as yet I have discovered no oc- ,
csfion for defence. A fait k stated in the 1
piece figrttd " Clitus" which has proceeded c
I suppose from a declaration I have made '
to several of my friends—l have declared '
and I now declare, that I have never Jhaken
hands with Wm. Cobbtlt in my life. In Au- !
gust lad, just at I was about leaving the !
Washington tavern, Mr. C. came up. As
he flood in ibe piazza, apd I by my sulky '
at some distance from the door, the saluta
tion of ,l How do you do Sir," passed be- f
tween us—l know not who gave it firft, 1
nor is it very notarial. A few words then '
pafled which I believe, were on the then '
recent conduit of Mr. Thomas, and I drove 1
off. JOSEPH HOPKINSON. . 1
December 12 ■
_ t
In the House of Representatives of this !
state, a motion has been made for the ap- [
pointnent of a committee to prepare and re- '
port a refpeltful address to the President of .
the United States, exprefiive of their en- !
tire approbation of his administration.
In t'e storm on Sunday a shallop ; 1
foundered, in the Bay,— on 'board ,
perished. !
Admiral Nelson has been created a Peer ' !
of the Realm, by the name, style and title !
of Baron Nelson, of the Nile, and of Burn- <
ham Thorp, county of Norfolk.
m (■
Savannah, OSoier 30th, 1798. '
GENTLEMEN,
The Corporation of this City have defir- 1
ed me to transmit to your Worfhipful Body, C
Two f houfand Dollars, for the benefit of
their diftrefTed fellow citizens of Philadel- !
phia. This small sum is a part of certain '
liberal donations to the citizens of this place '
who ftiffered by the fires in the months of C
November and December 1796. There 3
will be lent on by the fame daft of people, 3
in the course of a few days, a further sum ?
of about one thousand dollars.
The citizens of Savannah, besides claim-
ing to participate their full share of the sen
sations naturally excited by the calamities a
with which your city has been viiited, —
are feelingly alive to the generous and hu
mane conduit of the Legislature of your
state, and the inhabitants of Philadelphia, ?
in the hour of their distress j and have only "
to regret that these their, feeble efforts to- "
wards alleviating the fufferings of their af
flifted brethren of Philadelpuia, have not
been earlier exerted. 3
Notwithstanding the citizens of Savan
nah are aware of the resources ®f your city, -j
and are apprized of the notification of your
committee of health ; yet they cannot deny
thcmfelves the pleasure of acknowledging
their good will ; and of begging your ac
ceptance of this small boon in behalf of such j
diftrefied families, as may have felt the as-
flifting hand of Providence in the cotirfe of \
the summer and fall.
A fubferiptiou has been opened for the J
inhabitants of this city to con.ribute gener- „
ally. It is expelled that the proceeds of r
it will ready to be sent on in a few days. e
On behalf of the Corporation of Savan
nah, I have the honor to be
Gentlemen
With very great refpeft,
Your moll obedient servant, ,
MATTHEW M'ALLISTER, a
Mayor of the City of Savannah, f
The Worfliipful j
The Mayor and Aldermen r
of ;he city of Philadelphia p
v '
From tie Columbian Mirror.
| Nvmbe* VI.
TO THE PEOPLE OF VIRGINI A.
j Fellaw Ciiitttu,
I for multiplying obje£ti<ins
! againlt the Sedition Law, the remwdrance
i ftqtcs, " that a law hus penal ought to have
: bren deftrred in its operation until it could
he promulgated—a law which encounters
rooted prcpofiefiions in fjivor of the freedom
of the pr<fj ouv-ht to have been tanked a
mong legifldtive exp?riments," See.
if it introduced a new offence, or if it'
introduced new penaltits, I it fliould
have been promulgated before it went into
operation. But neither the offences nor pe
nalties are new, as has been fully aemon
ftrated. • Previous to the law the offences
were known to exist under the appellation of
misdemeanors, for which fine and itnprifon
ment were the ufnal penalties. Indeed the
penalties at common law are under the dif
cretionof the courts, but being now lrm ted
by the aft of congress, so that the fine nv-iy
not exceed a certain sum of money, nor the
imprifoninent a certain space of time, the
law seems entitled rather to the praise of mo
deration and lenity than to the cetifure of
harshness and severity.
But why, if unconstitutional, should a '
diltant day have beea appointed for its ope-,
ration ? or why rank it among legislative i
experiments? If unconstitutional, it is void, ,
and never can have'effeft—if unconstitution
al, it never should be a legislative experiment.
What do we fee in this remonstrance ?—>
men profeffing an affeftionate regard for the '
constitution, denounciig a law as a violation '
of it, and at the fame time avowing the fen j
t ment that this law, this violation of the'
constitution, should have been a legislative ',
experime I. Far different ought to be thi j
feiitiment of my fellow-citizens. They 1
the constitution as the sacred
palladium of their and rights
\ —Let it not be violated direftly or indirect
ly—let it n-it be destroyed either by open J
violence or infurreflion, or undermined by '
1 fopi.'ip.ry and mifcontl' uQ'ton. The means of
destruction, whether of the one fort or of
i the oihcr, should be abhorred—There is
more to fear fr«m the latter than from the
former. There is 3iore to fear from a doc
trine that denies to it the rights of felf pre
servation, and dwindles it into imbecility
and nothingness, than from open rebellion,
j Moreover the remonstrance, pursuing thij
objection, endeavours to enforce it by faying
that the Sedition Law oflght the have beea
ranked legiflau've experiments ioftead
of being retained in force for more than two
years and a half longer than perhaps the
existence of the exigency which countenan
ced its birth, but long enough for one party
tv» pervert it to the vexation, persecution and
impoverishment of its political enemies."
Here I will observe, if there is any fault in
the law, it must be that its duration is limited
at all- The offences which it punishes should
always be punished, and therefore the law,
if it were necefTary, should not have been
temporary, but perpetual. Perhaps the law
was not indifpenlably necefTary, because
without it the fame misdemeanors ware pu
njfhabl , and after its expiration will be pu
s nifhable by the judicial power of the United
States, as they are all cases "at law arising
under the csnjlitution" of the Uaited States.
Many things not necefTary may be expedient
and so this law may be ultimately found.
To agitate and inflame you yet more, it
is asserted in the remopftrance, that" the
law will be long enough in force for one
| party to pervert it, to the vcxa-ion, perse
cution, and impoverishment of its political
enemies"—that thojgh " the right of glv
j ing in evidence the truth of a libel, is a pro
-1 teftion to the accused, it will in the moll
: important instances be a vision instead of a
fubflance,"and because with thefirmnefs of
freemen, the remonllrants adhere torefpeS for
office, they will not descend to the painful
talk of fuggefling how this may be done,
and probably will happen." Indecent and
unjult as this attack is upon the Judiciary of
our country, my refpeet to the people of
the (late whom I address, shall reft rain the
indignation which it has excited. In offer
ing to the public my ideas on the two laws,
which have been misconceived by too many
of my fellow-citizens faithfully and affeftion
ately attached to the Afwerican government,
and which, by a few reltlcfs, unhappy, dis
appointed, and mischievous individuals, have
been grossly misrepresented, for the worst
of purposes, it was my determination to be
silent upon such affertious and irifinuations
as I have just recited—in that determina
tion I perfilt. For us all it may be a
source of inestimable felicity, that the ad
ministration of the Judiciary department i#
placed with judges, whose experience, learn -
ing, and integrity make them an orna
ment and blefling to our common country
and who will never permit any law to be
perverted to the vexation or oppreflion of
any ef us.
VIRGINIENSIS.
The celebrated Edmund Burke's opinion
of the people of New-Englanfl, in one of '
his speeches delivered in the British Parlia
ment in the year 1775.
"As to the wealth which tlie colonies have 1
drawn from the sea by their fifheries, you
had all that matter fully opened at your bar.
You surely thought those acqitilitions of va
lue, for they fcemed even to excite your en
vy ; and yet the spirit with which that e'nter
priling employment has been exercised, ought '
rather, in my opinion, to have raised your \
esteem and admiration. And pray, fir, what ,
in the world is equal to it ? Pass bv the other I
parts, and look at the manner in which the ]
people of New-England have of late carried
on the whale tifherv. Whilst we follow j
them among the rambling mountains of ice, ,
and behold them penetrating into the deepest 1
frozen recefles of Hudfoa's bay, and Davis's
ftieights ; whilst we are looking for them be- 1
ntath the artie circle, we bear that tl«fy' have
pierced intq the oppof.te region of polar cold,
1
that they are at the antipodes, and engaged
iin.Lr tlicr troz.n icrpcnt of S nwlwVikland
' i»nd, fehich too refiiote snd roman
tic an object for thsgnil'p of national am'oi
t:on, is !>ut/sa arid resting place i;i the
progress ol t.ieir victorious industry. Nor
is t:ie equinoxial heat more difconragirig to
thorn, th.ia the accumulated winter of both
the poles. We know that vMiiHt font.: of
draw the l:n; aftvJ flrike the harpoon on
th: coast or Africa, others run the longitude,
and pursue their gigantic game along the
coau of Braz 1. No fca but what is vexed
by thiir fillliries ; no climate that is not wit
ness to their toils. Neither thv peri'everance
of HollanJ, nor the activity of France, nor
the dexterous and firm sagacity of English
enterprise, ever carried this molt perilous
mode of hardy industry to the extent to which
it has been pu flied by this recent people ; a
• people who are still, as it were, but in the
j grilHj, and not hardened in the bone of man
hood. When I contemplate those things,
v wnen I know that the colonics in genera! owe
litttle or notJliug to any care of ours, and
that they are not squeezed into this happy
form by the conltraints of watchful and sus
picious governments, but that through a wife
and salutary negleCt, a generous nature has
• been fuffered to fake her own way to pcr
fection ; when I retted upon these effects,
I when I fee how profitable they have been to
us, I feel all the pride of power fink, and all
. preemption in the wisdom of human con
j irivances, melt and die away within me !"
CONGRESS.
In the House of Reprelentatives of the U
i n ' te< * States, on motion of Mr. Harper, it
j was resolved that a committee b- appoint
ed to enquire and report, whether any, and
j What amendment; are necefTary to the ft
laying duties oa ftatnpsd parchment, vel u i ,
| and paper.
j Mr. Harper's resolution for printing co
pies ot the alien and {'edition laws, was then
! called for.—-In I'omt oblervations which paf
led upon this fubjeft, Mr. Nicholas declai
med his intention of moving for a repeal of
| these laws, early in the present felfion.
| Mr. Dawfon, having asked if it was in or
der, moved, that the consideration of this re
solution be postponed for one month. As it
was understood that an effort would soon We
made tor a repeal of these laws, he was of o
pinion it would be jproper to await the ifTue
of the attempt, before a measure of this kind
was agreed to.
This gentleman's motion however was dis
agreed to.
The blank in the resolution was then fil
led with 20,000,' and the resolution itfelf, af
ter undergoing an oppotition from Mr. Gal
latin, postponed till to-morrow.
Mr. Dana, from the Committee appoint
ed for the purpose, reported the form of an
answer to the Speech of the Prefldent,
which, having been twice read, was com
mitted to a Committee of the whole House
for to-morrow.
The New-York Gazette of Monday con
tains the following account.
Ship Deborah, of Philadelphia, Edward
Yard, mailer, from St. Croix, is stranded
on Racoon Beach. Long Ifland—veflel lo*,
and the greater part of her cargo. The
people saved. She was laden with sugar
and Madeira wine.
Intercepted Letters from France
to Dr. Priestley.
yus7 PUBLISHED,
AWf) TO DE SOLD BY
JAMES HUMPH RETS,
No 59, South FiUKD-STREeT.
Oppofiti- the Bnuk of the United Siatei. '
[Price, Three Five penny bitt]
COPIE- of Original Letters, recently written
by Periods in Paris, to Dr. Priestley in
Am» rica.—Taken on board a Neutral Veflel, ap.4
exhibited as evi.tente against her. In the High
Court of Admiralty of Great Britain.
0" An Apprentice Wanted., by said
Humphrey!.
' '' ec 11 wfa&tujt
Ready Furnijhed Apartments.
TO LET, READY FURNISHED,
A FRONT Parlour and four chambers, wijh
the use of a Kitchen and Cellar, in a
pleasant j art of Arch ftrett ; enquire at the office
of thi»Gazette.
N. B.—As the furniture is all new, it precludes
any apnrehenfion of contagion from the late pie
vailing fever,
deeembet l« ' eod.U
SHOEMAKER W BER RETT,
HATF RKMftVI D THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE j
to No. g, south Front street. '
1
' # |
Th-ir room at the Coffee-houfe will continue to '
be attended from mill j o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Counting house to the
fame place, where he has for sale a few pipes choice 1
I.ondon Particular Madeira Wi.e ; Frcneh and
• famth Brandy ; Claret in calks and cases, of su
perior quality, and a few Packages Glass and
QmCCD'S-ware j also, a quantity of Carolina Soal- '
leather, which will be fold very low to clofc the i
fates.
Philadelphia, nmo.ii.noS 5
TO BE SOLD, f<
PURSUANT to the la!t will i>nd teQamect of 1
Micuakl CATTS,deceafed,a valuable
Plantation & Traft of Land, I
containing one hundre f and fsventy threr acres,
the Teflator's lite refi.lence, Gtuated in North
Sufquehanna Hundred, Ceocil county, Maryland,
about three mile- from the tide- water of Sufqut
hanna, and at a convenient distance from iivcral
fM'% of worship of Friends ar4 Prefhytereaas.
On the premiss are a Tan yard and convenien
ces belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dwelling- "
house, itable, orchard and other improvements
with 19 or y acres of good watcroJ mead w, and'
afnincient proportion of valuable timber.
For terms apply to the f»! f.fiher, in Wel-Non
tingham, about miles from the preqsifes.
THOMAS WARING, Executor
Uth mo. nth, 1798 j
For New-York ij h<J}onl
JS 'i cw and faft fa li: g ' :.oj£
j§* "|?m. PR ESI DE NT-PA CKE T;
-7&*Atkair,
Wli.l. rail with allconvenientfpeej— For fn ijl t
or p.flUge apply to'h. nJOer on board, iJini J
Chcfnut-Orect VCfcirf. * •
W.J-IO HAS FOR SAI.E,
On boardJaid Sloop,
30 bbls. of cofoil quality
ao do. of heiringsi d (had
. Few half do, mac Israel
A fmali quantity of fmoaked herrir*
60 bbls. of w intec pears
5 0C »d bunches of onions
4COO lbs. of excellent cheese,
Philadelphia, J,. c .
Injur ahce Cortipany of North America.
THE STOCK HOLDERS
are hereby informed, that a stated meeting
of the Company w ,u be he)(1 as thf;r ofgcc
™!r « next ' (being the fe
,Z Tr 7 « *i omh ) for the el "-
tion offeventy-five Dire&or* for the en fil
ing year.
D e. t j'h.
"Valuable Koperty far Sale.
FOR SAI.E,
I HAT well known Estate caJlfvf
>HR£U' 3B URRf .RM, iormcry fh c rfrfi
o General John Cs&vHadar, fit Lit. en Saffrfr"
River, in Ken county Ma-vl bjffafras
b i wh 9 h° ° f L ANJD ' «P«°ardi n o'f S s^
•I »U are The liuiloings are all
c 1 of a h»iuifome dwelling H oll f e
two la gfc Barns w«hC.»w huufc., & b lc .for fifty
horfes,a p .i.... trc d» ? fl ,or under cover,* t £
nary,two Jverf„\ hou.'e,, t.vo range, of
for N.groe, (~,eof tie™ new and of
bruk), Corn our,, , m .,,k hotife, fte. &c -The
whole E ,ate licinjj nearly surrounded hy water it
JET fiV T' inff •' Wd has a «<">' Shad an*
Htinng nftcry. It is conveniently fitmtrd frr
both the Philadelphia nd
two land., gs 0.1 a navigable r rcr but a fho,, f a ;|
from Baltimore. Ihere,, a large Peach, and ,J
Urge App e Orjia. d. on the premise,; also, a varie.
1 iI' 1 ! °f different kinds. The foil is
mostly a rich low-The whole Will be fold ton!
ther or t.v.ded mto jailer farms (lor which the buil
dings are conveniently (itua-cd) as m,y suit tbe »ur
chaler. The .Stock on said Farm, co, f, i.pj, 01 £ or _
fes, CattkSheep &c. will also be difpofedof
tatfurther particularsapply to O E0 hc e Hastings
on the pTemifes.ortothe fuiifcriber, in Hbiladelohia
December u. ARCHIBAU)M ' CAU -„J-- '
TO HE LET,
A N EAT, convenient two -'l°ry frame HOUSE
and BAKE-HOUSE, situated in fnu h F.urth
ureet,below German llre.t-Thehoufe I, incom
plete oner, having two rooms on a floor, with a
fpacoas garret; the lot i, ~~a , Crt fronf
Fourth street, and Hi i-2 feet deep.
Apply to
( CHRISTIAN BETZ,
v B , , no > 'JJi Mulberry (Ireel.
N B —As the property belongs to orphan ch3-
re^ P tgoOd f " Uritr wil! b<, g' vtn
Philadelphia, december ir. T798 ftaw.iw
Java Coffee,,
350 Bags of First Quality,
U "l'"S rom ; °" board the Ih p iKDfA.
at Mr. Thos. Pernor's Wharf, Mf j f or fjlc by *
yohn Ashmead i
vi7tr 2 o T ' Souf>l 'V '"t-Stieet.
who Hhs on hand,
For Sale, on reafonebie terms.
Celiacs *
Baft as
Black Taffaties, See.
- dcC '° eodtf *
For SALfe,"" — *
By George Plums Ted,
. O 'i. 66,SoUTH r «°« Strut.
ISO whole Tierces 1 0
roo half do. CE.
35 B d°r X awbS t£ HiVlß " a SUga "' CTUi,itd t0
1,000 pieces Nankeeas, do. do.
Anchors weighing i 7 cwt. and i6cwt.
160 boxes containing tea setts of China
35 boxes of blue and white table setts of do
. „ ALSO,
Boxes containing breakfaft, coffee and eve*,
mg cups and saucers ; tea pots, cream pot,, fu
i»i dilhes, pint bowls, cuflard cups, flat and
loup plates and difbas.
Young Hyson Tea
Fans
Cassia.
Nov. 2i
i Uawiw
R. "
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTU'ITItCr T
10 ESPECTFULLY informs the Public that
, , he c " nt ,' nLies " teach Ladies the Piano
rorte as usual.
-JiSlii; tuthta
noticeT '
THE "PARTNiasmror i
HUDSON & YORKE,
is this day dilfolved by mutual confcnt. All per
sons indebted to said firm are requested to make
immediate payment—and those who have aay de
requc(led to prefewt them for I ttlcment
to WILLIAM HUDSON, who i, duly autharif.d
to adjust the fame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YORKE.
.WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. s}, NORTH F«ONT-STREir,
Has for sale on the uftfal terms, a very
extensive assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Otc. ,0.
Jo the Creditors of tbe Subtcribers
pLE .SE TO• lAKF. NOTICE, that we have ,p.
i. plied to the lurtge, of the Court of Commoa
, ' h e benefit of an aft of alltmbly, paired the
THURSDAYth Ap,il K" : n and L hey havC J ' P' Jlntcd
HUKSDAY the 17th ind. to heir us and our Cre
thT« ,h" r e C " V of " Philadelphia, at f»ch plaee
attend if^Sfe™' 7 . hcM ' a " U "»*
PATRT K
James Dougherty,
PETER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE,
LEWIS D GRAFF,
JAMES M CALLEY
■ ■ . 3'»w ,iw
P KIN Ti N G Work,
Of Every Kind.
EXECUTED A r THE -SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At tbe Office of tbt Gazette of tb»
UmTfD States,
oa. 13. dtt
£i»Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1798-
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIKHN,
THAT application will be made at the I r<a
fury erf the Uniied State* for the renewal
of aC..ttfk .ie of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No. 15,148, for 18,;8i dollars, 33 cents, dated
Rigifter's Office, January Bth, 1798, ifllied in
the names of William Willink, Jan IVillink,
Nicholas iSf "Jacob Fan Staphorjl \Sf Hubbard,
Traftees for sundry money-lenders in AmAe>-
flam; which waiforwarded the nth of Janua
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Obbes, esq.
and loft by the capture of the (hip Columbus,
captain Skinner,from New-York forAmfterdam
S. Simp/on, cafttr.
nov 14 iawfiw
Bank of the United States
November 19, 1778.
NOTICE,
THE STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the
Unit ed States are informed, that according to
the Statute of Incorporation, a GeneralEle&ion for
twenty-five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank of
the-United States, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the 7th of January next, at 10 o'clock in
the forenoon.
And purfuafit to the eleventh fedtion of the bye
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are alio
notified to assemble in general meeting, at the
fame place, on Tuesday, the Bth of January next,
at 6 o'clock in the evening.
G. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article.
Net more than three fourths »f the Birefloss in
excluiive of the President, ftiall be eligible
lor the uext tnfuing year, but the Director who
{hall be President at the time of an ele&ion, may
always be re-eleitcd.
novembcr 16 m.tE
THE PARTNERSHIP OF""
Alexr. J. Miller, & Go.
EEING diflblved on the firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, allperfons indebted
to the fame art requested to fettle with the fub
firiber, and thofeto whom they are indebted are
requested to call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
Who has on hand,
TO BE DISPOSID Of ON LOW TERMS«
By the Package cr Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins
Guzzennas
liaftas
Coffaes
Itabobgungies
India Calicoes
Book Muslins
Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras & puliicat hkfs.
Brown Silefias
, Tickings, (S'c. &e.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
Irilh Linens Ssf Russia Sheetings.
nov jg 0
The Subscribers
received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
Shipm;u them principally on conlignment,which
thev ofttr by package to Wholesale Store Keepers,
or others, on very advantageous terms, for cash,
as pro\ed notes, or bills of exchange on London.
Medford £s" Willis,
78, North Front Street.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
(hawls
Muslins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
Bala lore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and sundry haberdashery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
_ Worsted, cotton and fancy hosiery
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorkshire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings andduffills
Caffimtres and fwanfdownj
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Wellh flannels
Kll apt Kendall cottons
Worsted and mohair plulhes
Pewter, afi'orted in small calks
Spades, shovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
100 oiks nails aflorted.
nov it $
FTTE S H FRUrrsT
This day, will be landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from on board the brig Eliza,
captain Vaugh->n,
MALAGA FRUITS,
Of the best quality, consisting of
Sun Railing in kegs,
Muscat I and Bloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes,
Soft (helled Almonds in sacks,
Jordan do. in boxes,
Lemons in cliefts,
Anchovies in kegs,
Prtidns in boxes,
A few jars Grapes, kc. Ac.
Also on hand,
Holland Geneva in pipes,
Sherry Wine in quarter caflts,
Frencli and Spanish Brandy in pipes and
biltts.
Best Olive Oil in boxes of 12 bottles.
For Sale by PETER KUHN,
No. 179, N. Market Street.
Deetlhber 6. diot
" NOTICE.
SAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle
men Subscribers, that the EXCHANGE
is opened for their recep.ion; and the CITY
•T A FERN, for Gentiemen and Travellers
Last Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers t° the fide building, which makes it
perfeSly conveuient.
* Hovember 6 taw
To the Creditors
Of Will'™ M'Clelland, of Northumberland
County, in the State of Pennsylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
r T" , HAT I have applied to the Judges ofthe Court
X ot Common Pleat, in and for the County of
Northumberland, for the benefit of the feverallaws
ef Pennfvlvania, palled foi the relief of Insolvent
„ Debtors; and the Judges of the said Court have ap
pointed the Thirtieth day of November inft. it be
ing tlw Friday of the court of CopimoH Pleas for
the County of Northuntberlandrto heai me and
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunbury, at
which time and place my Creditors may attend it
•hey think proper.
Wm. Mc. calley.
Noi thumberland, November I, 1798.
a 7- , > »»3W
Dancing School.
TT TILLI AM M'DOUG ALL prefects his res-
VV peftful compliments to the public : takes
he liberty *>f informing them, that at the request
I of many of his former employer?, he will open
, his School, at his Ball Room, in Fourth, bet
-1 ween Chefnut and Walnut streets, on the firft Mon
, day of Dtetm' er—For Young Ladies at ten
o'clock in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
ilx in the evenings of Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays.
Nov. 28 eoim
ALL PERSONS
Indebted to the Estate of Mr. John F«NNO,late
a of Philadelphia, deceased.are desired to make pay
ment, and those having any demands, to present
them fer fettlcraent, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adtn'r.
> or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the administration.
Nov. 3o s3™
JLancafter County Butter,
0 IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
r Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
1 dec I $
WOODBURY ACADEMY. '
e
THE Trustees of the Woodbury Academy,
in the county of Gloucester, New-JeWey,
have the fatisfa&ion to inform the numerous
patrons of that institution, that they have en
gaged the Reverend Thomas PiSon, to be the
principal, and to take upon himfelf the charge
1 of the above ferainary of learning, and that the
i fcheol will be opened 011 Monday the tenth inft.
■> Among the exercises taught here, will be the
1 , English, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all
its branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra
phy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur
veying, iff c.
This institution was formerly under the care
and direction of the Reverend Andrew Hunter,
and the fame attention to the education and mo
rals of the youth, which under him so highly
e (liltinguifhed it, will be pursued with unremit
ting endeavors, by the present principal and du
ly attended to by the trustees.
The town of Woodbury is filiated on an high
and elevated spot : It is airy, pleafantj and re
markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant
froni the-City of Philadelphia.
Parents, guardians and others, who are dis
posed to fend their youth to this place, will find
exceeding good, decent and comfortable board
invand l»dging, and upon reafohable terms.
Further applicatiun may be made to the prin
cipal, or
'John Sparks
Thomas Hendry
Franklin Davenpsrt
JoJhua L. Howell • Trustees.
John Blackws&d
Jb bn Lawrence
Thomas Hejton J
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
. Woadbury, Dec 3 diot
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK V WATCH MAKER,
- Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVF.D,
1 T)Y the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
' J. J and Watch maktrs and Silver Smiths Tools,
> files and materials.
• consisting ®p
Rowling Mills, large and small Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra
ces and Bitts,'Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch br»(h
es, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
' small Hammers, Clock dials, cad brass Bells, for
ged wark and pinions, Eaiery, Rotten Done, Pu
mice stone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
Iron wire, (hcet Braf>, main springs and glafies
gold, gilt, and steel chains, fcals and keys, &c. &c.
C 5" Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
nov. a r eodtf
Notice is hereby Given, \
THA.T application will be made at the Trea
sury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—Handing in the nathe of Robert
Wtlfon of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in th*
service of the honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading to the East-In
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New-
York. • Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
*793> °ne certificate for 1733 33
No 10,478, Reg. office 17th Dec.
1793» one certificate for 1959 50
i Ellijion & John Perot.
nov 13 eodiw
Whereas the certificate of two
(bares of the Batik of the United States in the
name of Samuel Amory, of Loudon, banker,.
No. 3181, iflued in lieu of H593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
. French, and the fatfl certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, and all persons concerned are delired to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Phih. Oift. 26, 1798. eo6w
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfioa
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—J enathan
I Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
less team, break the ground better, are kept in
wder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
. rate —the plan is much Amplified and consists of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
• beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and
- taken off at pleasure.
I Patent tights for vending with inftruftions for
making them may be had by applying to John
- Newbold, or the fubferiber No. m North
' Front-street.
Who has for Sale }
Or to Lease for a term of Hears,
A number of valuable tradls of Land, well
situated fer Mills, Iron vVorksor Farms, moft
[ ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon ftatt of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them will please to apply to
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Newbold.
, j"'y '7 2awtf
Horses to Winter.
HORSES will be taken in to winter atPus
spkct Hill, at the 11 Milestone, on the
Briftul road ; they will be wcH fed with clover
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will also have a large field to cxercife tbemfelves
in when the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr.
WMiim SM, lusrchant, Watet Rreet, or on the
premifss.
Nov. 7 wftf
cv;
. FOR SALE,
No. 7. South Fouhth-Stree 'i
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A l.'oxof Silks
20 Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of
A parcel very fine Caflla.
c. haight.
dec r .^ waw
FOli
By the Subscribers
200 Bolts Russia Duck,
50 pipes London paiticular bill Madeira Wine
r pair nine pound Cannon
A few Biles Madras Handkerchiefs
4000'bs Fine Flota Indigo
23 Barrels Beef.
Willingt £3* Francis.
Penn-ftreet, >
November 28 ) y
Imp orted
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT REASONABLE PRICES AND on A LIBERAL
CREDIT, BT
I'RATT ts" KINT7JNG,
N0.95, North Water ftrcet.
215 bales & boxes Ticklenburghs,
hempen linens r.nd oznabrigs from 1/5 to
3/ per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. strong do. do. for cotton do*
30 chests platillas 2 do. sealing-wax
3 da. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
30 do. creas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail-twine
12 do. eftopailles I do. watches
15 do. Bielefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterborncs 92 cases claret
45 do Brittanias 130 do fine long corked
1 do. Holland canyafs claret
I do. Russia do. 1600 buftelssfine fait
3 do. Russia sheetings 40 casks of roll brimstone
1 do. ravens duck 200 casks of naval stores.
2 do. Russia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany
I da. brown holland 4 hhds. coffee mills
a do. Silesia rouans b bundles German lleel
I ds.Wahrendrop linen 10 chests of Hates and
1 do. Caraudoles pencils
I do. Flemish linens A package of skates
1 do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 chests of Nurenberg
I Ido diaper toys
12 do. flripes 40 kegs of yellow ochre
18 do. checks 3 hhds. Glue
2 do. fiamois 8 barrel* of Lentilies
I do. Arabia (tripe 5 chests of prime red
I do. bunting for color? crust Holland cheefs
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 6® boxes of capers
1 do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
6 bales empty bags foal leather
X chest; hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
3 bores tapes, assorted 800 Demijohns
2 de. bobbin, afTorted 50 boxes glass tumblers
I box threads & tapes afTorted
1 do. fine blue liflados 2 hhds. pumice stone
5 chests men's flippers 1 box of mill saws
3 do. bed ticks I c*fk of cutlery
2 casts hog's bridles A quantity of flone jugs
6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A few (hips anchors, &c.
_J)ovember_l» tu&f-tf
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
1 For property in the City, or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing
ab®ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing stream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
No. 68, Market flreet.
Rovember 20 taw
~ FOR bALE, ~
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lying in Gloucester County,
State of Neir.Jerfey,
TWENTY-FOUR acres of which ate
Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This
land lies about half a mile from Timber-Ci etk,
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
eounty road passing through it, and the great
road only, two miles distant. For terms, afcply
to, PATRICK DOGHEKTY,
S'glt of the Rainbow, in Sbsppen,
between Second and Third-flreets.
Ec 4
advertisement.
Todd & Mott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
assigned over their effe<3s, r«a), personal, and
mixed, to the fubferibersfor the benefit of all
their Creditors-
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all persons who are indebted to the said
estate, that they arc required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir refpedtive accounts to
either of the assignees, in failure whereof; legal
nteafurea will be taken for the recovery of f« ch
debts as are not discharged without delay.
John Wadding! on ~l '
John Rhodes (. Assignees.
John Allen. \
nftv - 16 __ tu.th&fatFi
ALL PERSONS,
TTAVING demands against the Estate of !
r-, r deceased, lateofthe
City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeepir
are requested to jurnifh their accounts properly
authenticated and all persons indebted to said
Eflate are desired to make speedy payment to
CASPAR IV. HA IN US, ) , ' ■
FREDERICK GAUL, $ adm'n'JtT>ators
lith mo. 13 faaw 3 w
Notice is hefeby given^
THAT application will be made to the treasury
of the Hnited States for the renewal of the follow
ing certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, ftand
-1B the name of Jane Galrielle Rigaud, of Geneva
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack- 1
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik.
.. _ Dolls. I
No. 3195. Reg. office 19th May *95, icert. for loco i
13,181. do. 14th do. do. i do. for 3500 1
Willingt fef Francis. I
Ofloher 14. eod6w. 1
FOR SALE. '
Rice, in whole and half Tierces
Kan *™«s.
Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to
N. 6? J. Frazier, i
N». 95, So, Front Street- I '
november ,3 j, aw3w
Samu. o xtTilvs Fiihcr,
No. 17, DoCK-STRtET.
Have received per the Moaning Star, from
Tenerijfc,
Good Cargo Wine,
In Pipes, Hopfheads and Quarter Casks.
Per the Pallas, from Hamburgh,
German Oznabrigs ScTickienkirgs.
And by the late arrivals si om London,
Liverpool, llriftol, Hull and Dublin,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
W OOLEN GO ODS,
C /RINCIPALLV ON COJiSICtiMINT,
Which they are deflrous ef felling by the
Package, in which are separately made up —
the following articles on low terms:
Rose Blankets, 6 4, to 10-4
2 1 & 3 point blankets
Mottled and green Uuj;9 6-4 to 3-4
Mixt and drst) Forreft cloths, foiled
Fearnoughts
Blue Plains
Blue, mixt and drab plains, sorted prices
' Mixt, twill'd, striped and blue coatings, do
Blue, mixt and brown kersey duffals, sorted
colors and prises
Mill'ddrab Broadcloths, sorted prices
Blue Broadcloths, do
Low priced Broadcloths, colors neatly sorted
:• Swanl'down, striped and printed Keri'ymeres
Mixed and sorted colored Kerseymeres
3 Neatfuper and fuperfine cloths, and
Bsveretts
White, yellow and red Flannels, sorted prices
5 Green and white Baize
Yarn Hose and Caps
Coarse and fine Hats, in cases of 6 dozen each
20 pieces fuperfine wide Black Kuficls
> Joans Spinning and Camblets
With an Invoice of eomrhon and fine drawn
NAILS, fiatt and sharp points, well afTorted
They have al/o for Sale,
British Ozrabiig6"> y, <
Ravens Duck > IN BALES.
* Ruflia Sheetings j
Sax»n and Bohemia Dowlas—in Chests
Brown quadruple SHefias and Platillas, do_
' Irish Linens, in Boxes
' Irish Dowlas, white and brown
' Irish Sheetings, do
[ Irith Sacking ,
I Shot, afTorted. Red and White Lead and Span
ish Brown
T Crawley Millington Steel
Queens ware, in Crates
t Glass ware, in Crates and hogfhead^
Newcastle Grindstones. Boxes tin plates
: A few pipes London market Teneriffe Wine
India Romall Hdkfs.')
Long Cloths £ IN BALES.
I Humhums j
i Wcmans fhoe9, w barrels
Spermaceti Candles, in boxes.
I 11 mo 17 jaw6w
FOR SALE,
' To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
miles of the city, or tp let on ground-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle.ne. 147, C-hefnut
ftreet.
1 nov. 22 $
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS
INTENDING to decline their ptefent Bufiiefs,
offer for sale, at reduced pricas. a handsome
affortmcnt of Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c. in lots
t# suit the purchasers.
John Green £s* Co.
No. 16, Nerth Second flrtet.
; Ironmongers
Will find the abeve Goods wot unworty their
attention.
"0v.23
Dobbin & Roberts,
TAT 1.0 RS,
RESPECTFULLY inforra thek-Cuftomers, and
the Public in general, that they have remo
ved from No. 114, Ckefout Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street;
Where orders in their line will be thankfully re
ceived and diligently attended to.
__no, ember i 5 mw&f.iw
French Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Street,
WILL OPi'N
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
On Wednesday, the 14th Infl.
N^B.— Private I'uition attended to as usual
an ° Translations from either Language into the
other, performed with accuracy, secrecy, and
dispatch.
nov - 10 ewtf
John J. Parry,
CLOCK es- WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38,
South Secondflreet—where he has for Sale,
Excellent Gold Js* Silver Watches,
and a few
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which will be warranted to give fatisfaßion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch ■work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
An Apprentice wanted.
_november_lt m.^f lw .
LARENCE SECKEL,
N°. 155, Market-Street.
First quality Loridon Particular ) .......
Madeira, Pert, Sherry and Lilbon )
Cogniac Brandy, Ift to 4th proof.
Sprits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-cafk or Gallon.
3 naw&fzw
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, a second time, from 1
the Marine Camp, D*viJ Luftr, a fifer.—
H e had when he went away, a plain bluejacket and
veft,light blueoveralls, a round hat,which hridbeen
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fiift desertion, and a pair of new shoes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, find)- hair
tallow complexion and a njtch in his upper lip
His back is fttll fore from a flogging he got a few
day. ago He may bo difcovercd by his fifeinr,
as he plays extremely well.
w - w - BORROWS Major Com. of the
October 17. Marine Corps.
The time of an AQive
black boy,
"\T7"HO is about filteen years old, and has five
V V years to ftrve, to be disposed of. He is
well acquainted with the business of a farm, and
handy at cooking or waiting in the heufe. En
quire at the office of thu Gazette.
nov - 46
To be Let,
AKT) PGS S£ SS 10 N GIPEN
ON THE I4TH APRIL NEJCT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the poflcflion of Samuel Richarde*-.
Apply at this Office,
novamber 13 g
Imported,
In the Ships Afiive and Liberty,
from HSM*UKGH.
•Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes ,
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
GEORGE I•ENNOCK,
no. 103 Market-street.
nov 20 £
notice.'
ALL Persons indebted to theEfhte of Wi|.
liam Beauchamp, lately deceased, arede-j
fired to make immediate payment and those who
have any clainr>« against said Eflate to produce
their accounts properly attested to
Saml. Price, executor.
!,nv dim
BEE F, ~~
OF THE fIRST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages.—For Sa's By
WILLIAM SHEAFF,"
No. 168, High Street;
nov. 43 dtf
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms for Cash or a short credit,
yantes Lyle,
South Se-ventb-Jirecty near Che/nut.
nov 16 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mandy at Camp Wejl 'tx.
October 29. 1
GEORGE KELLER, «jo years of age,. <
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair aihi
complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, speak*
, broken Engliih and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, 17 years of
a g e > J'eet 7incites in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dublfti, by trade a Hosier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh complexion,
borp in New-England, Hate of Connedlicut, a
repeated deserter, by wade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeaisof
age, j feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above defertere are v«y ntwcli
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perly if in theft power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
thair regimental olothing. Whosoever appre
hends (aid deserters, Ihalj receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reafo*<-
able expences, by applying to me as above,
EDIVsIRD MILLER, capudn
2d regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to brdifpofod of, if applied for
immediately,, on board the Ship LouiU, lying
»«. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yatd,
novemberio. 5
A 14. PERSONS having any legal demands a
gainst the elkate of William Pa tins, deceased,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, arc
reqaefted to furnifh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all pcrfons indebted to said eflate
are r.-qjefted to make payment to the fubl'criber in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adrnina
OSobcr 31(1, 1798.
DISTRICT OE PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT :
BE IT REMEMBERED,
r , T THAT on the twelfth day
V " ) of August, in the twenty-third year of
the Independence of the United States of
Amerka, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif
trid, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words foliowiHg to wit :
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribei and
" Nations of America—By Venjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M.D.Correspondent Member of theSocie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
'< the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boftou, Correfpondidg Member of the Maila
" ohufetts Hiflorical Society, and Piofcflor of
" Materia M«dica, Natural Hitlory and Botany
" in the UniverJty of Pennsylvania "
In coi.formity to the asi of the Congress of the
United States, intitled " An ait for ths encourage-,
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps K
charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of fiich copies during the times in mentioned.**
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dill, of Penn'
November 3, 1798.
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good lund, underflandi
accounts and can be well recommended*
wants a Situation as Clerk orr A.liftant in a
YVholefale Store, or Couut'mg-hrufe. Appli«
cation to be made it this Office.
nov 14 §
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who ha*,
for a few yean pa£t been in the foujiern Stttes,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf,and by that meaDs has dofraudsd
a number of persons of their money, deoeivmg
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public charaiteis and repu
table merchaßts highly recommundatory of laid
Shaefftr ; to one at tliefe papers I find my name
fuhfcribtd, but Ido not know die man ; thd'e are
villainousforgsriesl To prevent farther inipofition,
I hav.t.' requeil theprinttrs of Newspapers in the
United States topubliu this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trcafuter cfth: UnitedHtutcs.
Trenton,Knu-Jtrfcy,")
Otlober 14, 1798. J t