(£a?Ctte of m Unit#) States, ill aily Advertiser.
By John Fenno, N O, ii 9 Cbefnut Street.
NUMBSX 172 £.J
STATEMENT of jiutunu of the InfpeSors of the Htrllth-Ojfict for lis City and Port
"* Marine Hospital Expenditnres—No. I.
T« n . Paid John Dtrffield, for attending patients, ... I 69
,j. Caleb Lownes, for nails, - ( - 94 10
James Mease, en account of repairs &e. - • a liU
30. Pearfon & Lc-vis, for 1 Ledger, - 4
Feb. a. John Marfeall, for paints, nils, &c. • 77 4 1
Mar. 17. Steir.er $c Karaerer, fur publiihing accwints, t "
13. Heatfrl>orbury, on a«count, - - 410
19. Thomas Dobfon, for Stationary, • - 5 ** 4»
April 5. H?ath Norbury, on account - - 4 3*9 S"
xq. Nefbitt & Battifs, clerk and melTenger in Health-Office,#ne quar
ters fa!ary each, - • 7 *J°
jo Betton & Harrifen, for medicine, , - « 8 91 6a
it. "William Allen, balance of bis account, . - 9 88 50
Do. rent of Health-Office, . - 10 36 67
Wells & Morris, for Ironmongery, - XX 48 5*
Msy I* Daniel Humphreys, for priming, - - 13 14 *7
10. Heath Norbtiry, on account, » . l| Ij» *•
Charles Kamfay, for stone, * . 45
June j. George Petts, for laying stone, - - > 7'
Heath Norbury, on account, . * 14 r & 3
July 7. Do. D«. * , - »J J»J 9*
Aug. 2. Co. Do. - » 16 170 10
10. Thomas Da»i«, for repairs t» Hospital, • -■ 17 195 57
11. William Buck, for carriige hire, » • 34
William Allen,on account, - • 18 ao*
Sept. 4. Heath N»r'*ury, on account, 19 iso
ao. William Jones, for repairing t>6 wharf, . 30 40
OA. 6. He»th Norbury, on account, • * 21 334 <4
Nov. 1. Do.- Q». _ - - - a* 126 11
Dec. 6. Tow and Penfon, tut information against the ship Hinde, 13 90
Heath Norbury, on account, - -14 414 85
Thomas Bickham, for mending the Health Barge - 15 5 17
Dollars 373T 71
♦ ' .
Settled by the Ccmwittee appointed 13th December, 1797,
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARK,
SAMUEL BRECK,j«n.
March 6th, X79*—Approved by the Board,
SAMUEL HODGSON, Chairman of the Board of liealtk-
City Hospital Expenditures for 1797 Na. 11.
Jfi. Dolh. Centy.
Jan. xi. Paid Thomas Hood, balance of account, 8 at
31. Nicodemus Lleyd, for iro.iwork, 5 85
Feb. 38. Andrew Brown, for advertifmg, a 33
April 26. Wells fc orris, for ironmongery, ja 44
Aug. io. John So fKck, for hauling funJriea, * 18
19. James U h.tchcad, for lundrics, % 325
is. Daniel Kn ght, for work done, 3 120
James I ho 1 plot), on account* 4 87 if
28 William Alien, on account, j 300
Sept. t. Benjsmim Kite, to purchafc'uppliei* 6 ij°
4. James 1 hompfon, on account, 7 Ijo
7. John Sc. jauiet >Vhitehead, do. 8 170 4,6
8. Benjamin Kite, to purchaCe fuppliei, J x»o "
9. James Smith, for cleansing infe&ed houses, »° »°«
IX. John Sims, f r painting, . 11 80
John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies* x» xco
12. Do. Do. 13 aoo
Do. balance of Benjamin Kites account, T4 IJ <J
Ij. Do. to purchafc supplies, is aoo 1
16. James Thoropfon, on account, U> ieo
iS. John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies, 17 aoo
19. William Allen, on account, xJ 300
ti. James Thorapfan, on account, xo*
•»- John Leicli worth, to purchase fupplie*, ao ae®
53. "WtUiim Allen, on accouat, »t 40*
jB. JohnLetehwo.-tK, to purchase supplies aa ao*
3c. James Thomplon, on account, J3 lo*
&A- 3- John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies, J4 200
10. ® 0- Do. ' *" jo»
12. James Thompson, on account, 16 Jot)
16. Do. Do. tj too
1 7 , James Smith, for cleanGng houses, 18 50
19. John Letchworth, to purchase supplies, 39 aco
ao. William Allen, on account, 30 ia*o
J4_ James Thompson, on account, ji too
30. Do. Do. 32 300
Nov. 4. William Allen, on account, $ ' 33 job
6. Miller, Forde & Monrgomery, to purchase flankfcarea for?
the Consulting and Visiting Physicians, 5 3S°°
William N<fbitt, clerk in the Health-Office for extra ferrices, 3 j ij»
Elijah Battifs, for do. 36 jo
Job Craighejd, for burying a man, 37 15
John Miller, jun. for Pe'er Helm, 38 350
iy. James Th mpfon, on account, 39 190 3t
jg, William Allen, ori account, 4s 400
J4, Michael Leib, for medicine, ' 41 94
Henry Chamberlain, for work done, ' 4» 44 79*
Thomas Brown, for work done, 43 ai 59
J5» Doilor Coxe, for meiJic-ine, 44 30
Dee. 4. James ; »i>th, balance of his account, 45 107 49
14. Evan Truman, for wood, 46 26 aj
James Ktrr, for mending a hearse, 47 10
Dollar* 11,342 68
Settled by the Conjmitte appointed 13th December, 1707,
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARR,
I SAMUEL BRECK.jun.
March 6th, 1798 —Approved by the Board,
SAMUEL HODGDON, Chairman to the Board of Health.
Dr. Marine and City Hospital in General Acctunt with the InfpeSors »f the He*lth-OfjiiC t
for 1797.
""a imAiint nf Mnritl# Hflfnifal PTHfB« Ru Kalanr* It* f\f fliH
?o amount of Marine Hospital expen
ditures per Treasurer's acct. No. I 3711 ji
■To amount of City Hospital expendi
ture*, per TreaforerVacci. No. IL 1134 a 62
To one months interest of 1000 dollars
borrowed of Jame9 King, J JQ
"o balance in the hands of James Old"
den, Treasurer to the board, 14
Dollars 15070 13
"e John Gardner, jun'rs. borrowed note,
per contra, not yet due, and which
will appear irt the acct. of 1798 3S°°
ÜB. Several accounts yet owing for
supplies and services, the amount of
which cannot be exactly ascertained,
will probably make, together with
the above Bote, 5500 dollars, due by
the institution.
On the itth day of March 1798, we the Subscribers met at the City Hall, and carefully exam
ledthe written account of the Infpedlors of the Health-Office of the City and Port of Philadel
phia, and the accounts and vouchers rilating thereto, and do find the within to be a true ftaternent
•"?the said Account. HILARY BAKER, Mayor of the City of Philadelphia.
ALEX. WILCOCKS, Recorder of tr.c City of i'hilad. '
JACOB SERVOSS, Juliice of the Peace N. L berties.
WM. ROBINSON, Jufticc of the Peace for Dift. South.
Subfcriber informs those
I to whom he it indebted, that a person wilt
end every Jay, Sundays excepted, until the ift
1 April next, from the hours of xo o'clock in the
.• 3rnipg till jo'clock in th* afternoon, at thehoufe
• > -merly occupied hy him ia Chefnnt-flreet, for
- : putpole of {hewing all books, papers and let.
• s regarding his pall commercial tranfiiSions to
■h of his creditor? as may think proper to attend
- 1 examine them.
JAMES GREENJLEAF.
'nan.h 1 tax [ \
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 16, 1798.
/>/•
By balance in the hands of Gide*n H.
Wells(Trcafurer) ift January, 1797, 1191 1
By cash received by James KiHg of John
Baker, County Treasurer, IjOO
By proceeds of John Baker's three notes
difcounttd at Bank of Peanfylvania, J936 34
By proceeds of John Gardiner, jun'rs.
borrowed note, 3500 dollars, dis
counted at ditto, 346 a 77
By proceeds of John Baker's note, dis
counted at ditto, 1980
13070 13
Settled by the Committee appointed 13thDec.i 797.
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARR,
SAMUEL BRECK, jun.
March 6th, 1798, approved by the Board.
SAMUEL HODGD JN,
Chairman of the Board of Health.
LANDING,
AND FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the ship Fair American,
Same# Burke, matter, from Aux-Cay« 5| now ly
ing at Bell's wharf,
eoNsisTiNe or
Molasses, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Wood, J
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY", jun.
3 ma. i. <j tw St south Water-ilreet.
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruflil's Wars
Burthen ti!i>—three yon ol 1, built of the be ft
materials and is well found—would answer well
for a coatter, n (he has eieellent accommodations.
foi terms apply to
Gttrney iy Smith.
march IJ 5
for Boston,
The Ship
s^£sk> t- COMMERCE,
MfflpSJSv RicliarJ Waiftco*t, Majter.
OryaT To fail ill a lew dayt..
Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on v«ry moderate terms , for which,
or paffags, apply to the Captain, or to
IJaac Harvey, jun.
5, South VV'iter-llraet.
march I*. §'vr
FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, lire oak and
cedar, i* coppered, flieathed and bolted, 3 y»*s
old, fail* remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at South-(lr«et wharf, ready to
load PF,TER BLIGHT,
march 6. § 1 w
For Hamburgh,
THE SHI?
Dominick Terry,
J AGOB Dihart, Majler,
Having great part «f her cargojeo*
gagnd.—For freight apply to
JeJfc is* Robert Wain.
Pebnuary a/5 $
Nicklin £3? Griffith,
At their Store on Walnnt Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in p'pes and hhdi.
TenerifFe do- in pipes
Old Pnrt do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef thefts
Sail Car.vafs, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflincts, in packa
ges iuitable for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted
Black quart b»ttles
Queens ware in crate*
YeJlo'V ochre' dry in calks - ; '
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Li' erpool, expected round
as fonn as the navigation is opeu,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Ooals
Spanifti Brown 1
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown i PAINTS
Patent White f VA N 18
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Colerthar vitriol
lftr> bundles She-.thing paper
Seaming Twine
Far Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of PhHip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January x. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
Jlllfe GOODHOPE
c,rr y ahout 1100 barrels, and
iHfii V totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Secoud-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Supir
and Rum, Madera, Lijbon, and TenerifFe win*.
November 7. dtf
House and Lots, in Bordentown.~
*~l 1 0 BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
X with the Lot on which it Is ere&ed, situat
ed about the middle of the beautifal and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is sorry
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main flreet, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, son
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, ard for the remainder, such credit
w II be givrt. as the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refidin£ in Bordentown, near
the prtmifes, who vll (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Muibfrrv-ftreet.
December 1. 3»wtf
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. Hi Walnut-street,
TNFORMS thofa who wi(h to recur to the only
1 means of becominj perfedt in the French Lan
guage.that he has just opened his Libzarv, con
lifting of upwards of 1.500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either uftful inftruilion, or plea
nire. The conditions, together with a catalog®
of the Library, may be seen at every book-fcllSr's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, execurec with ac
surac) and drfpatch. eoim „ n .
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FOR I Y acres of land on the Old York Road,
within light of Genruntown and about 6ve mile*
from the City, the whole being under go«d fence
and in excellent order aspaflure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Cressoic, at his office for the
sale of KealEftates, Conveyancing, See. No. 54,
High-street.
2d mo. i6th 4 2awiw
On TucTiay, the ioth day of
April next, at 7 o'clnck in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, iu the Cily
of Philadelphia,
WILL be expofrd U» public fali, feventesn
trails or parcel* of land situated in Point
townfrup in ths county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thousand seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acre's £(id three quarters,
witji Ihe usual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, j- j ofthe purefcafe money on
the execution of the
and 1 in fvx months, in goad notes or other
approved fecarity
CONNELLY £3* Co. A*tt.
Marc'* 9. lawin dnoa
A Great Bargain.
WILL BE SOLD,,if applied <orimmediate
ly, Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills ol
Credit, noon intcreft at five per cert, per annum,
now lodged in the Tr*afury, snil endorsed by the
United Mates, with a promise to " pay theinte
rt'tt annually."
Enquire at the Office of THOMAS McEWEN
IS* Co. v-rch u r
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five miles from this city, a sober fiea
day Man who understands gardening and the
management of a few icres of lanrf, an 1 would
not objeifl to attend a couple of bsrles. Such
a one may meet with liberal wag:s by applyiqg
at the office of this Gazette.
N. B. Nooe need apply but those of unex
ceptionable chara&er».
March !■?. dti
A Garden to be let,
FOR a term of years, situate about a mile frogs
the Csurt-heufc, contains ahout two acres of
land, it a high (lataof cultivation. A large green
house, isere&edon the premises, about forty feet
long, with a lodging room, and feed loft atove.
A considerable quantity of kitcU-a articles, very
regularly disposed of on thefpot.
f.nquire at jl, South Second-street.
march It. - cojt
St. Croix Sugars.
»6 hoglheads bell ST. QkOlX SUGAR,
yOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 fm^-wtf
FOR SALE,,
By WHAR I'ON LEWIS, j
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
1(1 and idproaf Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
- ui Juniper Berries, Sic. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
FOR SALE,
400 barrels BEEF.
Snquire of
Ctorre Pennael, If
CiJ. Hill Wells.
march 8. eotf
ft.ed Clover Seed ®f the be^tquality.
MADEIRA IVItJR,
Old, and fit for immediate life, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
TenerifFe Wine,
And, Window of which will be fold
on **ry reafoaable terms, by 1
John Craig,
No. U, Dock Street,
march r w&.tf
TO LET, *
And poffeffian given the i(l April next,
TheHouleNo. 258 High-street,
At present o.eupird by P. Bbtliu, Esq.
Apply to
Edward Shoemaker,
No. 127, High street.
February 24 eod 3w
Prison iVJ anufadtory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from to zody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, fiddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakets snd SaJlri s Thread
Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb *nd hea 1 ttoocs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platlorms, llabs, facia, window heii<, tills, c .
All which may he had onreafonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders frdm a dirtance, direfted to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pnii'on, will be attended to.
December 26. mth6m .
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS by GEORGE FORMAN,
fOK PRINTING ST SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix m»nths—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIR ACY against
ull P.eltgions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in t£e secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lccsled from poo l authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
PofeJJtr of Natural Phil,fifty, and Secretary U tie
Rt>yal Society of Jid'ittbureh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum pt oximus ardet.
0" THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 lubfcribers are obtained,andoo money requir
ed until the work is completed—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fa
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat handfomely bovnd and lettered
—tbe price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure il/übfcribers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis— and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
*•* T"® above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in hiirh
efhmation in the literary world—the fails therein
recorded are well substantiate:', and thereafoninc
and arguments thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are Calculated to amul'e as well as to in
u A fccne of villainy is developed by the
author fuiticient to appal the flouted heart The
danger to be apprehended from fceret fscietits is
clearty pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation irem the flraight path of religion and
of virtue, ineonteflibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by ilubboto and iocontro
vertable fa&s.
tit Subscriptions taken in l v O. Forman, No. 46
IVuUam.firect, VfyU. tbe Pofl-ttfic., and by th-refp-t.
>/•/ Mf«ller, m Nliit-l'wt at:*
February
[Volume XIII.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOk S4LE,
Hp WAT well kn<jwn Eftatr, called SHREWS
_L BURY FARM, formerly, the reficK'UCe of
General John (iadwaladja, firijate on Sa!Eili.» Hi
rer, in Kent count*, Ma.fy!v»d—co.lC.:i ir:g q.
bout 1900 acres of prints I.AND, upwards of joo
•f which are in woods. Thf BiiiMiags ate ali ex
cellent, and copSft c.f a, hasdli'mc dwelling Houl#,
two large B.am» with Co»! hones, Stables for fifty
a fpaciove treajii.jj 3o».- under cover, a
granary., two Ovetfeer's houfcj, cv\ Q ran
ges of two story buddies for Negroes (one %f
them new and of hrick), Corn houses, a Smo.'tk
house , Ac. &c.—The whole Estate feeing nearly
furrouoded by water, U require* but 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring k is
conveniently'tit jated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large peach, and two hrgu Apple Orchards on
the pi«mi(«s; also, a variety of tfcellftt fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mofily a rich
The whole wIR b# fcild together, or divided into
fustier farms (for which rhj.' holdings are conven
iently situated) as way suit the purchaf,r. The
Stuck on said Farin, confiftiuj ot Horles, CattW,
' Sheep, &c. will alio bedifpofsdof. For further
particu.ars Apply to Geok<je Hastings, on the.
preniifes, or tothe fuhferiher, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jus-
February 14. 2aw6»v
'w OTICE j "" 1 '
IS hereby given, that the Subfci iber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the tt-te of New-
Jerfcy, hath prefcQted his petition to the Judgee
of the Inferipr Coyrt of Cotnmon Fleas, 111 an 4
| -for the laid county, pra>ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a.-
1 gamll his liberation, puritan: to an ail of the
Legislature of this luate, entitled "an a$ for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pafltd the 46th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of Marcfe
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court Hcufe in the Midttte at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, »f which
his creditors are requeftsd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14—tawrw
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtfd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinller, or her afiigni,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of
the Umited States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
ia the year 1796. The lutfcril>er, the said Han,
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Fab i isw6w.
Bolton Glass Manufa&oiy,
THE citiicns of the United States we hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House ill
Boston.
It is neodkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of thcßoiltn Glass, as it isfo well know*
throughout the United States to be in every reft
P<A Superior to any rv< r imported front
Europe.
It will be d»t to any file comraenfy used ; and
may be conttantly had by applying to Chalet F,
Kupfer, at the GlaL House.
Orders from the distant States fobe addrtffed la
Mr. Samuel Gere, Court-draft, Boston.
C 5" 'Two or thre» good Glass makers are want
ed at the above works ; such as can produce r«-
commendatioas for good behavior, may be sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. L'rndt, st
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the methed
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
»ith tha fame encouragement.
Bofl.cn, January 16 j_» 2 sv6«
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware aad Schuylkili
Ca'Tial Company, February 17th, 1798,
Revived, Tl-.Et ten dollarsou each ihare ofStock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
ExtraS from the Minutes.
GEORGE WQRR.ALL, S.eretary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th« Prcfident
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill Carnal
Company, the Stockholders arc hereby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpe&ivc ihares.on or before the ift of April nuxt.
t0 WM. OOVETT, Treasurer.
February aB. ajwtA
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE ClTlZrtff.
r following arrangement is made by the
J- said coramiffioners, for cleansing the
ftrects, &c. b
Diftrifl No. r.—From the north fide of Vine
to the south fide of Mulberry flreet; cq
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholss Hick*.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry ilreet, to
the south fide «f Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut llrect t«
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoo.'e.
4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar firm, to be uHdtr the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
§s* When pumps are out of order south of
Hi fh-ftreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Gcb
ler, it.Fourth, wear Chrfnut-ftreet j and north
High-llrect, to l/iney and Oehaven, in Saffafuu.
street, bstween Sixth and Seventh-flreets.
James C. Samuel VV7Fiiher
AT THEIR STORE, 9
Ne.jxj, cbrSer of Arch and Frentftreet.
H/ire FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hnfiery in trunks,a(Torc<l"
A lew bales red, white, and yellow Flaonei
Ditto fptty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Mackafs ditto
Ditfu Gurrahs
black Taffetics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few elicits best Hyson Tea
XSOO boxes'beft London Wlniow GlnfiL
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and i S hhds. Glais
' s 'Xne cffascttc. j'
PIIILA DELFHI'A, '
% FRIDAY EVENING, M/tneH t«5-
Far the Gazette of the United Statu. 1
J»R. TEKVft,
It is a'fad confirmed by daily experience,
that we have among us some chnrafters, so
abandoned to all sense of honor, so destitute 1
of that love'or country whioh nature has
implanted in the breads of all men, traitors •
excepted, as to eridra«or to juitify the ont- 1
rages of the FvencK rulers upon the sacred '
rights of their own citizens and their wick
ed and unprovoked aggrcflions upon neutral 1
nations; by ransacking the records of etc- '
ry government from the creation of the world
prefent'day sos precedents. Theme- >
rit of this new dii'covery, thai ont immoral
aSion veil!cxtvfe another, is certainly due to
the French apologias, and fully accounts. •
fcr the mpny reccat violations' ef trad and
toufidencc of tvhich their moll zealous parti
sans have been guilty.
. during the firft years of the revolution
in France, our excltilive patfribts vindicated
the cruel and Unjust ad« of tfre French ru
lers, upon the ground of. thur being grand
originals in ihemfelves, and as such,
worthy of cbt imitation of all the surround
ing nations.—N«vv forfootb, that we'arte
crime to our lcafes, and can no longer view
Frenchcrimesin the light of cardinal virtues,
our patriots have wheeledabout, anil plainly
tell us, the dire&ory import their habits of
perfidy and pillage from abroad! These are 1
precious confejions, from which a IdTon may
be drawn of the utmost importance to the
wtlfare of the human race; it is this, That
the French people,after having (lied torrents
of blood, after having laviihed mountains of
treasure, and endured years ps unspeakable
misery in pursuit of Liberty aud Equality,
are now groaning under the yoke of a gov
ernment, more sanguinary, mire immoral,
more faithlefs and more arbitrary than
ever existed before.
I have been led tb make these refleflions 1
by perilling" a series of publications in the
Aurora, under the signature of an American
Merchant/ .in which the conduct of the
French government towards this country, is
not only defended on the principle of pre
cedent;, but a number of Jesuitical argu
ments are adduced to shew, that the result
will be rather beneficial to U3 than other
wise. It is not my intention to notice all
the filly ideas, which this tirrfeme writer
ha: broached ; : t would be apiece of drudgery
. to which my icifure is not competent: bet
as his object is ta reconcile the people of the
United States to the late hostile mesfure of
thtdire£tory, by nprefenting it' as militat
j->p solely agaioii Great-Britain, I flialL in
h>y luin endeavor to prove, that thcConduft
ci the French ruler? in relation to this coun
try, has beeo from the beginning diihonelt;
fcaft aft J treacherous; and that in the pre-
Tent instance they are aiming a'death blow
at our merchants, ftiip-buildcrs, mechanics
and farmers.
At the commencement of the war between
France an ! England, we owed a debt, of
some magnitude totbe former—bat this wa6
r.at all—France at that period was threat
ened with a famine, hence it became necef
fsry for her then rulers to sbferve some ma
nagement in their plans for despoiling our
citizens; and being fully imprefied with the
importance of precedents, they began their
fyitem of fraud, by imitating the example
of the Jews in borrowing from the Egypti
ans The mode of doing it was this. Thef
inftrufited. their agents in the United States
to contradt with our merchants for supplies
to an immense amount; they opened all their
ports to «-ur vtffels; they welcomed our cap
tains and fupercargocs to their (hores; call
el them braves AmcrlcainSjirtd almofl squeez
ed them to death with their fraternal embrac
es; until tliey had decoyed into their pof
fefficn, property to nearly half the amount
of the commercial capital of the United
States But mark the sequel. Theyrefuf
td complying with the contra&s made by
their agents on the mpft frivolous pretences,
to some of the (hippers they paid* part,"to
others nothing, and embargoed all ourfhip
pfng, until the value of both vefltls and car
goes were consumed in expences. When
these advocate* for pure principles, however,
began to perceive, that the braves Americans
were not dtfpofed to trust. them with the re
maining half of their property, they instan
taneously difcoveredthat ourveffels had been
navigating unmoleiled for several years
without the Role sEquipage—private or
der 3 were therefore immediately issued for
bringing in and condemning all Americans
rcffels unprovided with that document, this
order was promptly obeyed, and several
hundred of our (hipping, trading under the
fanflion of a solemn treaty and furniflied
with abundant proofs to-identify the pro
perty to be American, were captured, con
demned and fold, and the crews turned on
shore exposed to all the horrors of want.—
It was forefeen however, and predicted by
those persons who have marked the rapid
march of the French rulers toward the tem
ple of infamy, that when our veflels became
provided with this magical document, resort
would be had to feme new pretext. This
brings me to notice the late decree of the
French government, which declares as good
pn'te, " all neutral fr'ps, baaing tn board
merchandize end comnodities, the frtdisßisn of
England, or of the English p'ffejjions."
I need not inform my readers, that every
cargo of -Weft India produce (hipped from
the United States is composed in part of
coffee and sugar from the English islands,
that all our vefftls without diftin&ian.coaft
ers included, have some fyare (lores of Bri
tifa manufafture on board; but I will bold
ly affirm, that in all caseS where the cause
of capture Ihould not happen to exiil under
;he deirce, it wiU bi fnpplird by th; castors
wup.\ I! Hi do.iU
ticle* • ieha.idii<" or .j f ° -
whicl v•< - • ■ tJ '
ttr Jaktng out the captains and crews, f.- s
very friend to humanity mu!¥ deplore the e
vils iiieident to a state of war, but it would
be as confident in a physician t6 re-
c )m.neid the use of preventatives to his pa- *
tient ip the agonies of death, as for this pie
tended American merchant tb erpntiatc on
the bltflings "t peace, when there is no
peace.
In contemplating the present awful ci ltis
of our affairs, we fbould do well to cor. Gdi r g
whether national calamities arc not deligned v
as punishments for national offences. Dur
ing those times which tried men's fouls t
when the iflue of the conflict was doubtful, a
when our hearts were too humble and too v
honest to miitake the obj«.(Sis of our gr iti i
tudr; we flocked to t>ur temples to return v
thanks to tile supreme being fur having ra' J
edus up'a powerful ally in the person of t!;e n
late unfortunate king of France*.—Na>, y
those statesmen and heroes, who under the t
. fame'divine influence conducted our n 'fairs to j f
a profperoos issue, hejd but orte opinion on 3
this head; which opinion was hy the".n ex- ' {:
preffi,*d again and again in their solemn del A'- t
erations, ?.s will mare fully apjjesr by ti«e v
journals of the late congrcfs, reference be- d
irg thereunto had. What thf n mU?I be the a
language of the hiftotisri, when lie coined li
to record the events us events which tl
form a ia the annals ot this country, t
that nothing can obliterate? If a candid t
man, lie will fay, that in applauding the
conduct ot the persons who had embiued t
their hands in the blood of our deliverer - t
who had rejected the God whose ioterpofiti. t
onwefo often acknowledged—we were guilt
ty of the molt abominable perfidy and in- t
gratitude! 1 t
No rr->n fubfcribe6 more implicitly than t
myfelf to the axiom, that every nation has j
full right to exerci e its own discretion in t
the choice of a government —but I deuy the v
newfangled dodtrine, that all means are law- r
ful. It was unlawful, for instance, becauie c
not neceflary to the success of the French t
revolution, that the blood of the dethroned 1.
king and his innocent family (hould be (hed 0
on the fcaffold, and their memorits branded Ji
with the most unfouoded and atrocious ca
lumnies: but if these things were unjuftifia- t
ble on the part of the French people, what t
apology can we offer for becoming parties to t
the tragedy by transferring the obligations 1
we owed to the fufferers, to their cruel and f
unreleuting persecutors. c
A real Ameritau. c
J
For the Gazette of the United Statu. \
M*. F»NNI», t
In reading tbe J<l volume of Adam's defene*
vf t*he Gonftitutions of the United States, I felt
mylelf irvefiftably impelled to (ranferibe thefol- £
lowing fenteoeesfer pjiblieatioa in your paper.
Sentiments fa flriflly just, so truly fuhlime, and 3
so well calculated to irrfpirethe American youth f
with virtuous and rdftned ambition, cannot be t
too often prcfente<J to the view, nor too deeply f
iiaprsifed heart.
" A prnfyeil iatofaturity in America, is like -i
eontemj ia'nig through the telrl- J
cope of Hrrfchel: Ohjefts, ftupendcus in their ,
magnitudes and motions, Rrike us from %U (
quarters and fill us with ama*eir.ent. Whtn
werecol.'eA that the wifdaru or fully, the vir- 1
tile Qr Vic*, tbe liU.i-ty or I
minior.o bow beheld by i s only as Columbus 1
law tiiafe timet in vi'fion,* are certainly to be ,
influenced, pethaps decided by the minners,
examples,principles and palitical institutions of
the prelent .generation, that mind must be har
dened into ltone that is n*t into rever
luce and awe with such cfTeft ng before
histyes. Is there, ein there be a young Ame
rican indolent and incurious, surrendered up to
difiipation and frivolity, vain of imitating j {lie
loi.feit manners «f cduntriev, which can never
be made much better or much worse ? A profli
gate American ycuth mult be profligate in L
3eei<, and richly merits the scorn of all man'
kid."
• Burial!} s Vision of Columbus.
From the FEDEKAL GAZETTE.
Mtjfrs. TunJt ci" Brtwn,-
The letter from Philadelphia, published yes->
terdayin your paper, was unqaeftionably genu ■
ine, so far at least as to the real exprrfliou of
writer's sentiments, though prob .bly im
proved in the languige by some friendly hand.
Its tendency, though not manfully avowed, is
very obvioys to all who have watihed the po
litical char jflers and couduift ofpbMic men.—
To prepare Americans to f>ifT*r with tamcntfs
a,continuation of thoSe infultsand depredation s
which have long tried their uience, and ftrip
pidlhem of their propelty v (» certainly its ob
jed : and if, after feeling the public pulse by
this flight efiay, the wrier Cin flatter hirafelf,
that it may be brought to 3 temper tailed to
his views, there is no doubt hut we (hall fee
measures proposed and advocated to keep us in
our prtfent state of imbecility, without any
means of affording prsteiflion to our citizens,
and in despicable dependence on 1 foreign coun
try ; by whose arbitrary orders our commerce
is to he deftrnyed. If feme favored partisans
can make profits under these general grievances
of their countrymen, by a trade on fufferance,
to the 'A'eft-Indies, it is plainly insinuated, ihat
»em« 4 ulcno efToi ts to deliver ourselves from
a fubjeiftion so difgraceful. Americans, it fceins,
muit renounce every principle of rational dig
nity ; nor hope, after thetr total fiibjefliori to
the power of their matters, that they will be a*
• ble to fay with Francis the firft of France, after
hii defeat and captivity, -we bait UJI every
i thing hut our honor. This is not the only view
. of the letter-writer : another is, to calumniate
, the government of the United States. He has
the boldness to fiv, that the calling of congress,
last ksnreer, was with a view to produce a war.
' Whether thia discovery was made by hiinfelf,
or jderived from tbe Utter of the
I which an unadvised correspondent too hastily
I made pSblic, it is not matcrisl to enquire. Bijt
f there never was a more unfounded iinputaiipa';
and, ier the refutation of it, nothing lurther
need be fiid, than to refer ilie public 10 the pre
fident's ffMCvti at the opening of that f£ffinii ;
in which fptei h, delivfred before any experi
f ment of tbe temper ofeongrefi, anif
, ly without any knowledge of its difpofitioli:",
. than he pofleffed before he called it, he publicly
aar.cs.nced his resolution to renew negociatjon,
1 and use all means, confident with honor, to pre
_ j fervethe blcAingsof peace. Let this fuffire.fi r
- j the present, to nlimate 'he polit cal prir.cples
r j and ear.dcr of tbrlctter-writir.
ASj 1NDI? KJ»SNT AMIRia.'M.
i.. : . ••; or jj
i-\>reiga
8 V TUT. HALIfA.X rXcK*y*». AKfHVHiS AT ft Y0 T. K.
PARfS, Janmry 14, ,
L ! B E S T Y E Qjf A L, ! T V.
TUc Commifcrr of ihrExecutive Directory «
at {he municipal ivdinMiiflratiOri of t-fre can
tba of 6iian, to the inhabitants of that «
canton, |
«' CITIZEKf., : v
" The vi&orioui French Republic no lon-
' ger apprehends danger item its enemies
without. ' ■ - n
" Hie Coalition being deSroycu, .eaves «
F. tK;»ifcd to Iter, mercy ; that power ?
ai'jue, after h*vi»p iuppotted each of the
v;roqiiifh<:d powers, in tbe'ftur'' —after hav-
' ii..jr rent• Frjnce with l'nttfHne comii.otlons,
will jln.7 Hlfty'n the whole weight oi h;r in
-1 JigiHrtion -ihiJ of bervc.-igearice.. The mo- n
uey which fiie lias Javiftu'd, ailtf which ftc t;
yet eonfiftue* to lavish, wi-I not save her fiom n
the sword of the republicans, and it is this e
j fwori rWh will loon avenge the cause of 1;
ajV,E«M»j*« of viointcd principle and of li- r
! berty trud'deu irider fit-fit. Its corrupt and t
tyrannical government will give place to that t'
which the people of England, worthy, no a
doubt, of freedom, IJiaII fnbftitute to it, t
and before the trees Hull havt their firft d
leaves f>n them, the tri-coloured standard, a
floating on the _ British foil, fbaJl remind ji
them of what they were and what they eug'nt
to be. 7
" But in the moment of fixing for ever 1
th« delliniesof the firft republicia the world, t
the government, turning its attention to f
home, is no longer disposed to leave the in- t
ternal enemies of the slate any realon to v
hope for fuceefs, and if determined to def- I
troy them ; not because it i* apprehensive of c
their efforts, but because they weaken the v
public spirit; and because it is time to give a
to the Hate all that energy which hat been r
vainly attempted to bedeilroyed, Govern- t
ir.eilt wishes to rally all the friends of their 1;
country and of liberty by republican inlli- p
tniions ; beeaufe republican inftitutiona a- 1!
lone can give energy tothe public mind, and <
operate within, what its victorious arms t
iiave tffeftcd without. e
" Awaken, then, republicans of this can- c
ton from your lumbers ; you especially pa- si
triots of 1789, who do not confound liber- d
ty with licence, and the laws with anarchy, si
This is the moment in which you nfuft cob- y
folidatc your work, and fix for ever the fate
of France. Rife from y»ur deprefiJon, fe- I<
cond the efforts of a government which it si
perpetually triumphant a government, t
which on the 4th of September deflroyed a
the hopes of the ruyali-t faSfio/i, and fixed t
-peace, and fccured liberty on the molt un f
shaken bails. Dare to avow your principles 0
openly ; dare to call yourfclve* republican, 1
and may this title, hitherto unfavourably re- j
gardtd, become henceforth an honourable v
title ; and may those vrho do not deserve to . c
ftiare it with you, at lead learn to be silent.
" Officers of government ! It ic to you
-in particular that I address myfelf. Remem- <
ber the republic will onlybc served by those 1
who are the friends of liberty. Remember 1
that there is flo longer any room to tempo- .
rize, and Ojat you mult frankly (hew your
fclves-to'b'e'wfrai you are: If there are a- -
ny among you, who are not devoted to the
cause of liberty, remember that of all kinds
of bafehefi it is the greatest to receive pay
and maintenance, and to hold a place uader
a government which you deleft, and the
deftru'dh'on of which you are desirous to
bring about •, and quit your situations before
you are-driven from them, a&d lay aside a
mask, which foouer or later will be torn from
you.
" Zealous officers of the republic, it is
on you that the republic particularly relies,
and on your example and your influence, to
give vigourto thepublic mind. Employ in
yOur offices none but the partizans of liber
ty, and difcird those who have signalized
th'cmfelves by contrary opinions. Scrnpu
, loufly observe the days of repose, and let
your offices be dole shut on those days, and
f do yourfil-fes afTemble, together with the
■ magistrates in the Tlmple of the Laws,
; there to be present at the promulgation of
| the new decrees and orders of government,
to hear the recital of their triumphs, Jthc
i songs composed on their victories, and the
s civic discourses, which are to encourage and
* give strength the love of the country.'. *
" Government requires that I should ac
' quaint them with the conduft of those who
J aS contraty to these inflrudlions, and I no
. tifytoyoa, that I shall neither betray the.
1 truth, nor negleft my duty,
r "You too, who have been included in
1 the requisition-, have been able by means of
th« exception which government has tho't
t Prop»r to make, to yourfelves at
, home with your families, should recoiled
t that the favor you have met, renders it par
t ticularly incumbent on you tp refpeft gov
-1 ernment, and to aflift it by combating the
> enemies at home, while your bravo com
rades are engaged in contending with -*hofe
. abroad. .'
r " Citizens of all claSc3 ;at the com
j mencement of hoflilities against England,
v these coasts are about to be covered with the
c numerous battalions of the conquerors of
* Italy—Welcome these brave defenders, and
receive them with honors ; observe their
?, wounds ; remember the afts of valor which
i, they have performed—remember, that half
y naked, in want of every thing, and forget
t tiug that th-ey had relations and childrtu,
* and considering only that their country and
' liberty were threatened., thsyfecured these
bleflirgsby ttor blood—rememberthatt'hty
j. daily braved death, while you, quietly at
t- home, were contested to read details of
their viiSories by your fire fides. Render
y tbem then that tribute of gratitude which
they have a right to expcCl—applavfr, at
" r leatt, you owe them.
SJ " They indeed m#y fpsak of their youn-
liberty—they know what they
have done for ar.d may csafider them
«th^vov, 6 wck,
forts, neiiher the ore nor tl.e other
have been in ejilWc. It W ' ,y lfnl b [
yourTclvts to these men that you w.il lean, j
to appreciate the value of these great blel- ,
figri's, libmy aad the republ-c. As W you ,
who abhor these goods—you,
firanger;, to wfrom the republic afiords an
afylum —you tea, whom pass.on« prejudi
ce, and 1 efcnmient« render li.sensible to her
glory and to he. triumpln, who daily pour
forth v..«ir guilty wiftesfor
whom the memory of pall horrors cam:«
dtter —whoever you be, and wherevsr you
exist, be eyeful out to nufhke the inctd
rreucc of cfcvn* merit fur weakpefs# IVcr
you notice, that the end of
fast hand, and nxr.e.sber, that thrower
which has deftrqycd ali the tings of Europe
can with a twauii annihilate yoy.
" Internal t::eni;« ! heliere that govern
ment" kno»! aAdf'jees every thing; cjujs,
tavern*, and places of public entertainment,
nothing can cfeape their vigilance. Aw*k
-1 en *ll of you froth your error, you efpeciat
r ly who have fufTered yourselves to be cor
riipted by perfidioas influence, -return _ to {
those fentimentsavhich -you owe your coun
try, and draw that line between you and tiie ;
agents of England, which can alone' pvo- ;
test you, can ensure you fafety, and hin-
der you from fharii.g the pumfhment which
, awaits all men who seek to thwart its pro- ;
; of all cbfTes, I fnoald betray (
you were Ito conceal a cruel truth. I" .
• spite of my constant efforts to diftinguna .
, the mass of the inhabitants of Calais from
. forac individuals, perhaps more intprudeot
than culpable, I'have not been able to pre
-1 vent government mistrusting this commune ;
. I have not been able to prevent them from
• considering it in an unfavorable point of
: view, *ad froci fufpe&ing. that there are
a number of individuals in it who oppose its
1 measures, who regret the monarchical fyf
■ tem, and who, devoted to perfidious' En
gland, ire reidy to assist' the' vitws of that
power, '• \\ r < are in pofleffion," fa/* the (
direftory, in its letter to me, " of the clue
[ -of this plot, and we already know part of
; the truth, that the public spirit is corrupt
ed among ; yon, and you alone." You,
• cdmmifTary, in whom we.have placed een
fideace, you alone among these numerous
■ denunciations, canaot find ona guilty per
son. What are you about ?—We remind
you of yonr duties, and of your oath.
" No, my fellow citizens, I proftfs it
loudly—no, you are not given up to per
fidious England. Its gold has net corrup
ted you ; public spirit is not extinguished
amongin ; & if the English, who threatened
the Walls of Dunkirk, should come to pre- |
sent themfclves before the memorable gates
1 of Calais, it is then that the world wauld
, have been convinced, that if some among
yon were formerly devoted to a king, you
would all have been refslved t® perish, in ,
> order to preserve liberty and the republic.
" No ; both of them are for you the on
-1 ly objeft of your wishes and of yow soli
- citude. You have proved this, by the bu- [
: merous facrifices which you have already j
r made, and you may hereafter make. N® !
- —no, you are not Englishmen, you are
Frtfichmeo—,you ««c eveti 1 epubttCilH. f
- undertake to convince goveruraent that it
e ha 3 been deceived. |
s "At this raomerit, when the armies ap
f proath, when the government is making
t every preparitien for invasion, you mutt,
e citizens, remove every fufpieion, by break
s' off all conneilion and communication I
e with the country which the republic is a- j
a bout, to attask, ar.d caver with its arm : you j
3a will avoid every correspondence, which, j
though really innocent, might excite the j
is jealousy of .the government, and cause in
i> tefttions to be ascribed to you which you
0 have not, and which you are far from en
n tertaining. This is one facrifice more_, but
r- it is time to make it; and you will make it'
■d readily, bccSufe it it indispensable becaufe,
t- by so doing, you will prevent new infinua
:t tions from occasioning new errors—becapfe
d it'will be one proof more of your devotion
e and your civifm.
'• " A patriotic loan is now opened at Pa
>f ris, in order to accelerate the approaching
t, invasion. Already have the admfnfftrationfi
•c and the body of merchants of Pari», fub
le scribed several millions. A number of in
d dividual* in the department* are haflening
to follow this example. You will no doulst
"* imitate them.
10 " Government has left it-to the merchants
>" of Paris to fix therafelves the mod speedy
1C - mode of repaym<int ; and they will them
fclves assist the operation of it, which, as
111 far a* it appsars at present, i* by the pro
-3f duce of the postage of Calais.
1 "V ou will join your ofiering to mine of
« already made. I shall transmit it to the
r - municipal adrainiflration, who will keep an
*- account of the names of ths lenders. The
" e whole furn will be sent off from Calais ia
y" tin day*, and you will prove, that so far
lle from the gold of England being all power
ful with von, yon can yourfelf lay down
m - money to humiliate ancfreduc* it.
1 > " I repeat it again, second my efforts :
dg not reduce me to the cruel alternative oi
°j being.obliged esther to use severity in tht
performance of my duty, or to betray il
eir by a culpable indulgence. May I alwav.
c be happy enough 10 be a'ile to proclain
al * the civifm and the virtues of my fellow clti
ct - zens, and never uuhappy enough t« prose
cute the guilty at the expence of ray owi
nil feelings. .
rfe ,t No ! citizens q[ Calais, you will ftil
lc -y be wßat you always have been—the ftiend
a t of the country, of liberty, of equality an
o{ of the con ft it ut'on ; and you will alway
~r gladly exclaim, Vive la RtpuUique !
lc!l (Signed)
at " Pigauit-Maubaillacco,"
CcmmifToif. of tlia Exe.ativ; Dirc&er
un-
ley LONDON, Janj IS
em lac Concorde frigate, c»romatvded b
' lit*
| j}?* h-* " fiwt u»u
." Jk-'iirJcTux an Tfngliih velf. J Ornn.vC, the Fly
ii-g- Mfti, laden with fak fi:h. -
iThe privateer Giroiide hat taken a P Br _
tugttelc vefTel, named La Notre Dame d«
la Gloirc, laden with sugar, cotton,
| jml cftimatedgt ly ,Co 6 livres.
The Sp»rt:ate, of Bourdeaiix, has take ß
andcariied iuto that pert, the Clinton, l a .
den with {alt fifh.
The Claris., of Nantes, has taken the A
meriian brig Thomas, laSrn with English
merchandize.
The PaV.riote«f Brest, has fei 7 ed and
sent mio L'Oiient, the. Caroling an
merican, going f, om London to Cha>feft oD
with a cargo jof Cloths, &c.
The envoy of ltill Confined i a
tlx Tetnple. It is not true, as has ben,
said, that the Diplomau'c-body have tsken
part in' this affair, and hay- demanded >| it
i'eafun of his impnfonment, v
From Marseilles we learo, Hiat consider.
able bankruptcies Ifave happeVd at that
phce.
Tiie central admiuiftration of the\) Wcr
Loire have opened a fubfcrij>;ion to dt?r a »
the expences of the expedition against £ n .
gland. The Proees-Vcrbal whi«h they hare
published on the fubjeft, .concludes thus—
" From the bloody deck .of the Sandwich
the manes of Parker call foravengers; a»d
Bantry Bay, the Grottos of pingal, and the
love of Liberty, fliajl give birth to them."
We are affurcd that the. account in »
morning paper relative to an interview he.
tween a high married couple, is without
ffcuad.it ion. There have recently, -indeed,
been fdme domcftic negotiations in th*
quarter aliuded te, and we kprn that they
are not likely tc. end in a separation, as for.
fidently afterted for fotpe time past, but
that there is foaitthing like a probability
that harmony may be restored .between the
partie«„ if not conjugal endearment.
DUBLIN, Jan. 9 .
We hear from. Monatterevan, that tli»
house of captain Evan*, within three inilci
of that town, was attacked on Saturday
night by a party as United Irishmen, who
fired into the windows and wounded des
perately a female fcrvant—They were not
able, however, to accotnplifh their purpose
of breaking into the house. . '
January 11.
The ensuing teini is likely to give full
occupation to the eouri of king's-beoch:
the trials of the Belfaft prisoners -for high
treason, and that of Mr.'Arthur O'Connflr
for a seditious libel, are the principal cauf«
cxpc&ed to come forward.
; | CONGRESS.
! HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
i STATE OF THE UNION,
TUESDAY MARpH IJ.
■ ' Mr. Sivjll
■ Having moved that the House go into t
. ] Committee of the Whole on the&tateaf
r J the Union, ' .
I j Mr. Nic noxashopedthe house wAtild not
■ go into a committee of the whole on th«
[- u ß«te ps the union to day, as they hs3 some
treason to expect' farther information' from
) the President of the United States with re&
- pedt to our dispute with France. The let
r ter communicated from our commissioners
, refers to other letters. It fays, •' we fee n»
. ; better profpedt of our being received than
n 1 when we wrote last." He wrfhed to havf
j the information to which this letter refers •,
j ' fiuce, if it was true that all negociation was
1# at an end with the French government, it
e was proper t'ne information should be l&id
- before the Lcgiflature. He hoped, there*
n fore, the house woald wait for a day or two,
t- to fee whether or not farther information
t wo»ld be sent to the house oti this fubjetff.
It' . Mr. Sew ax l said, that the howfe were
:, already informed, that, in the opinion t4
i. the commissioners, all piofpeft of negoeia
e tion with the French government had ceifed,
n but as, farther communications on the fnb
ject might be cxpefted, the feledl commit
l. tee did not wish the house at present to gs
g into any new measures, but pierely fo.g*
M into a consideration of the resolutions re
5. ported in January last, which might be dan«
5 . without any further information, from thji
g President.. He supposed the information
which h?d been sent to the house was intendr
ed to haftentheirproceedings in taking mea
ts fures for the protection of our commerce
[y and the defence of the country ; and if n»
n . information at all had been received fro»
at France, be supposed the house would have
g. thought it necessary to have gone into the
defentive measures proposed, though thjy
of might, in that cafe, have driven it till t»»
fe wards the close of the session.
Ie Mr. Harper said, if he could be of opi*
)n nion that all the members of this house
he fatisfied as to the neceflitj of going at P rr "
in Cent into the measures prop»fi.J, he (Viould
" ar be ready to go into a committee of the whole
;r . on the state of the union. He himfelf tho t
vn there was information fufScient in the com
munication which had been received, to ao
j : thori/e the house in immediately atting i'
of pon the bu'fintfs ; bat as he doubted whe
he tlier other gentlemen were of this opinio®,
it and as more might be expefted, he wifted
yj to wait for it, as'it might produce greater
f m unanimity as tothe ncceflityof the meafurei
'ti. which itmigkt bethought propet to take*
f e . . Mr. Dana said, though the commi® o "'
we ers had written a folio before, the ' ctt^
which had been laid beforetlxehoufe was •
t;]l result of the y-'holt, as they t*ll the Irt •"
uls dent they have abandoned all hope oi
ind commodatiou. And he thought we vtr
nyS brought to that situation in whiih w« »u
jay whether wc will take any means for t.
piefervrition of our rights and liberties, <■
' submit depredations and infultscois
srr. milted upon us by a foreign power.
Mr. J. Wi-t.[amihopwl the house wor.r<t
wait for the furthtr infsrmation wbicfc
by roight bft expefted froit "wis datable that »'Vf« the koaft went into
this fubjeft, theyfliould do so wtcha* much
unanimity at pofiibie.
Mr. Nicholasjuftificd what lie had be
fore obfervea with refpecfc to the letter of
our commiflionert, which (he said) contain
ed no fa&s, but referred to their former
communications, and agiin urged the im
•propriety of going into the bufinef. at pre
feut.
Mr. RuTLifioß could not agree with the
gentleman fmm Virginia thai the left* from
our Commiflioners .contained uo fai!i upon
which thehoufe couid deliberate. In his o
piuion it contained a very ilrong, extraor
dinary and melancholy fndt. It informed U3
that on the Bth of January out commiflion
ert had not been received by the French re
public, and although they had been near
four months at Paris, they still continued to
exhibit the strange and humiliating fpe&acle
of the representatives of an independent
people foliciymg in »ain to be heard. If the
late communication from the President had
*ot been received, and the heufe remained
ignorant of the situation of our trillion tq
France, it would be expedient to adopt the
, measures which were now attempted to be
brought before the committee of the whole
on the state of the union; for all that was j
pressed for at present was, to have our un- .
fini/hed frigate* completed and equipped, •
and an additional appropriation for the pro- !
teelion of «ur ports, harbors and sea-coasts.
With refpe<St to the frigates,the house would
recoflccft that when a bill to appropriate for
the finifhing of them was called up some '
■weeks ago, its consideration was postponed
for the purpose of obtaining information a
bout the expenditures which had already
taken place with rtfpeft to ihem; the bill
was then poftponcd becanfe the gentleman
before him from NewYorkfMr. Living (Ion)
wanted information ffom the war-office ; at
bis request a committee was raiftd for the
purpose of obtaining it; and notwithftand
jng the zeal and anxiety Ihewn by the gen
tleman .from New-Vork, three weeks had e
lapsed without the committee's having been
called together. With refpeft to the ne
eeflity of some defence for eur coast, it was
so palpably efleutial that he could not eon.
ceive why any gentleman could wi(h to post
pone the neceflary measure until we should
!:ear further from France ; the documents
upon every gentleman's table no* only jufti
fitd the going immediately into some mea
fnre* of defence, but rendered it ahfolutely
neceflary; of all these documents he would
call the attention of the house to one only ;
that was so strong as to render it tinnecefla
ry to notice others; it was the communica
tion received through the Executive, from
♦he gqvernor of South Carolina, in which
we are informed of the gross violation of
©nr neutral rights, in the burning of an.
Englilh /hip in the harbor of Charleston.
The governor fays this was the a<S of a pi
rate; hedoesnot giveit at his mere opinion,
that the crew of thitTeffel were pirates, but
/peaks positively, and fays they were, that
he tvas perfwidrd »f it. If then, in additi
on to the multitude of newspaper informa
tion, we have this, official account of the
toad of a state, in the neighborhood of
•whore coal! ther« it much wealth, being in
fefted hy pirates, surely it is neceflary to go
jato some measures of defence. But the
gentleman from Virginia will wait for more
_ information: he wants to know what our
commillionert wrote and did anterior to the
Bth of January; this information might grat
ify the curiosity of gentlemen, but it cer
tainly wat not neceflarys the house ;knew
the icfult of our commifli«ners having been
•t Paris feijie months, it knew that they
not been received by the French govern- j
stent and had no expectation of it. This
information was public, it was before our
eonftituents ; they were waiting with im
patience and anxiety to know what congress ,
would do. Mr. R. wilhed to put an end ] <
to their impatience ; he wilhed to fatisfy in
some measure the honor of his country, and I
he wilhed to give some protc&ioa to her '
much exposed interests .
Mr. Hartiet said, the House might
fafely go itvto a committee of whole on the
state of the Union. A Refolutiun for equip- '
ping the frigates wat the firft tn order, and '
he fuppoCtd there would be no obje&ion to ,
taking up that fubjed. The purchaflng of ,
vetTels would be another confederation. He r
believed the people were mweli surprised at
the delay which had taken place in thit bu
ftntfs. When we had a dispute with great '
Britain, he said, an Envoy Extraordinary *
Was sent to* that country, and our differ- „
encet were acc®mitiodated ; but the French
refufe to receive our Commiflionert, which 4
is a proof that they must despise this coun- f
try, and he feared it would be neceflary to
take very strong measures before Congrtfs 1
rof«. At present, he supposed, there would "
• be no obje&ion to the taking of measures 'j
•r the prote&ion of our coast. si
(Delate to be continued.)
A
THURSDAY—MARCH If.
Mr. Sewall reported a bill making an addition- n
•1 impropriation for the provision and fnpport of a Cl
Naval Armament, which wat committed for to
morrow.
A menage wan received from the President cf R
the United States, nforming the house that he had tj
approved and figsed the rnS for building a light- b!
house on Eaton 4 Keck, and to the bi'l providing
for the widowi and orphans of certain deceased
•Seers.
A mcfTage from the Senatt informed the house
that they had passed the bill for the relief of Syl- P
vanui Crowell. £
Mr. D. Po(ler, from the committee of claimt, n{
made an unfavorable'report ou the petition of
Giles Wolcrtt, which was ccacurrcd in. m
Mr.Craik reported a bill making an appropria-
tior. for completing the buildings necefiliry for the I 01
accommodation of the j-overnmert at the city of j b«
Wiflimeton, which was committed for to-morrow, j f.
The bill fopplemcntary to the a<3 eflablifhiog i
the Judicial courts of the United States, was read !
a third time, and the yeas sad i:»j« were called on 1
•he queitina of paEnj. It will be recoilefie4 ■ pi
rhtt tnis bill originated upor: a refolutlon brought ' an
forward by a member from K«w-Y*rk (Mr.l.iv- :
Irtgftnn) in order to provjj; for the trial of cavfes ,
in which two ftatM are cto-eractf y in the next ad- [
state, ia older iv oLtsiii aa impartial trial. >
V.'haigivs r/e r# 'ai-l vcitsa caiiin tiu
to J T -'Mch re naw p:adini* titrrcen tie ft it of MetV- .
c JI | York jn.l ConiieSicut : Atereonfidrrahle debate ■
) aui nays wer< t kcr. as foii-MT .
I r r a s.
If " ! MtlTrs. Bavird, Brookes.ChamV.in,Clay,Coch
of r.B, Q.-Ut, Elmendorf, Glen. Harrar, Holmes,
n- Hofnaer, Jones, Lyon, Nicholas, Otis, I. Parker, J
cr Pvker,Rutledge,Sewall, Skinner, Sprague Sprigg,
Tillinifhaft, Trigg, J. Trizg, Van CortlanJt,
r " V.in Alan, Varnnm, J. Willisms—49.
e- NAYS.
MelTrs. All"n, B.ier, Baldwiu, Barid, Bsrtlett, ;
he Blount. Brent, Bryan, Bullock, Burgess, Chapman,
_ 'I". Olaihorne, W. C. Claiborne, Cloptan, Coit,
Craik, Dana, Dawfnn, Dennis, Evans, Findley,
,n A. Fofler,D. Poller, Powler, J. T'r-.nim. N. Free
°- man .Gallatin,Giles,Giilefpie.Gosdricli, Gregtr.Orif
)r- wald, Grove, Hanna, Hartley, Hei'.ler, Hiudnun,
U3 liulay, Kittera, Lyaian, Macl ir. Macon, M'Cle- ,
n _ nachan, Millcdje, Morris. New,.Schurcman,Sbep- i
ard, Sinniekfon, N-SIP th, h, W. Smitb,
e " Htatf»rd,Sttmi>ttr, 1 fcomn, j
a * R. Williami—sS. Adjourned. j
to .It I '
!te ■ ii' 1
ld d PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, March 16
, e
le
as j On ednefday last, a number of the fed
' eral citizens of the northern liberties met to-
j gether at trie sign of the PreGdent of the
0. j United States, to partake of an elfgant
dinner, and indulge themselves in the com-
U miniication of patriotic sentiments ind good
3r wilhes to their happy government. Altho'
lc I the company was riumtrons, confiding, of
r( j about itventv good men and true, the utmost
ly ■ deed went forth, but they were the shouts
;jj of Americans, glowing with the love of \ !iclr
|n country, and a deteltation of its enemies—
Our worthy senator and fellow citizen, Ben-
Jt jamin R. Morgan, attended by invitation,
ie otn C refpetlablc gentlemen from the
1. cit y-
After dinner the following toails were
drank with true Amerieari enthusiasm. j
in l. The Prtfi lent of 1 the United States—May j
he continue wife in connfel and firm in ailion, is j
the support of the rights and interests of his coun
try ——(Nine cheers)
J" Giobof tVA(niNCT.oN—'Thafavier and or
t- nament of his country,, whose presence
(J to the arm of war, and honor to tht*<ouncils of
;s peace——(Nine cheers.)
. 3 The People of the United Stares—May their
virtue give energy so the wisdom of their govern
mcrtt (Three cheers.)
y 4. rh.- Confii'ution of the United States—The
j reward of difficulty, <1 anger, and the blood cf pa
, triots; may we itever luffer this sacred deposit of 1
our rights to be corrnpted by pretended fricnds,.or
violated by unprincipled foes -(Six chcsr'.) 1
'* £•'. Thc Fed eral County df Delaware—May their i
n political importance never diminish, while their 1
, politital integrity remains—!—(Six cheers.) ,
t f The County of Philadclphit— May lbs in£u- ,
enee of #rd«r and good governmfrrt continue to in- •
■ crease until their afccndancy shall be andifputed 1
- (Six cheers.) (
7- the patriotic Committee «f the Senate of 1
f Pennsylvania, who invefligated with patience and j
t impartiality, and d r cided with firmn-fs. on the
sacred right of fuffrage Nine cheers )
8. Ihe Love of our Country—Pure and unmix
- ed with foreign influence, domeilc /aflion, or '•
- groandkfs difeontert 1 fSix the r«.) )
g .9. The trne Frietlds bf our Independence— May 1
f they oppose alike the declared enemy and the trea-
— '
to.- Thc Senate «f the UuittJ States—The in.
> fl'.xihlg supporters of the constitution, and daunt- t
; less defenders of its rights. (Nine cheers ) r
» It The House of Kcprefentatives ofrthe Unit- I
r ed States—May they not forg t there u a spirit in -
• # I -\mertcati people that diKains difhonorahle -
- fabmiffion, and will r«fer.t unprovoked ir.fults—
- (1 hree cheers ) C
M- The Executive Branch of the Federal Gov- r
r ernment May every unconftitntional encroach- j
ment on its rights, he repelled with dignified firm
nefs (Three cheers) F
13. Our Comniiflionersto France—May the dig- 1
■ nry of their deportment put to fliai.e the rude
l ness of their reception (Three cheers )
14. May thole who have noirtereft in oar hap
piness, have nn'influence in our affairs—(4 cheers) n
15. Our Federal Friends in Congress—May f,
' their patriotic exertions be rewarded by the fuc- f>
1 eels of thnr measures —-(Six cheers.) r
1 t(S While our country itan asylum for the op
| pressed, may (he not become a refuse for thc wick- !.
td (Six cheers.) b
At fun set, the American colours which
had been suspended front the front of the f a
house, unblended with those of any foreign d
nation, were introduced into the dining ai
room, midst inCeflant shouts. ° m
roluntter by Col. the standard
. of Amerirt never be unfurled in vain, and may P ;
we never be seen to rally round any other.—([ll- 111
numerable cheers.) at
Volunteer Tomjf t. m
Timothy Pickering—The able and nndaunt- w
ed aflerter of his country's rights.—(Three
Cheers.)
Oliver Wolcott—The virtuous fta efman and -f«
able financier. ( Three cheers ) w
May the fame spirit by which the iudepen- -fu
dence of America was eftablilhed in 1776, be en
found ready to support it in 1795.
I so
. . friends «f good order in the Northern ill
Liberties—May they alwaj-s uncierfbnd their na
interests and support their rights—(3 cheers. ) w.
Our friends in the Di»ri<n of Sonthwark— of
rhanks for their exertions, and joy for their ne
success. ls
After Mr. Morgan had retired—Benjamin R. en
Morgan, the choice of the people.-( 3 cheers. 1 of
Volunteer by Mr. A- Brown—Mav the good bit
men of the Northern Liberties nev-r be fright- ly
ened pointed coffins, or all the hoftj of 1/rael. la,
MARRIED—Last evening, by the Rev. Dr. ho
Rogers, Caoaut Wilson, Esq. of Mifflin coun- of
ty, of the Senste ©t Pennfylvanja, to the amia- to
bie Miss Isabella Whiti, of this city. wl
res
Frtm the Aurers tf tbit morning, P ri
When John Aumi, the son of our
President uken from the Hague, and t°'
sent to Berlin om a new appoi»tmtut w{th a !
new outfit, we suggested, that he wouldie j the
I made to perform the circuit through Se ! fie
! Northern Courtt of Enrope, with a netv me
outfit at each removal; asfuch business would #iml
be found more profitable than any lie could
follow at home, and as it was thc duty of e- 1 7
;ery father to provide handsomely for his ! and
lon, especially when it coyld he done at the veri
public cspence. Our hint has been taken *rb
and Jomn Adams has heen appointed 1 k"
tor Stockholm. This appointment was ra- . fr !
tified by the Senate a few days ago, after a ? b!l
tough couteft, in which fevcral intereftine ItH'!
ions ar»fe, fotcc of which weri? eairicd ir «
>w- jby a larc mijorhy. We are glad |o fsn<3 a
aLe 1 stand made in Senate agaiuft a spirit of ex
travagance and partiality so glaring} it willl
- teach Mk. Aoams, that even fo.ne of his
:es, friends ia the Senate have feme regard to
. J chara£er and decency, and arc not ready
S i S ' to S° lengths with him.
MR. FEVKO,
;tt A mire infamous att-mpt to deereivethe pub
sn lie, never mi le than -va mirle in Biche'.i
iit i Aurora of this ra irninjr—The story of the >•>-
sy, pointment of fohn Adani« as miniftcr with
re- an outfit to the court of Sweden is a falfehnod
rif- ;fwn» heif tuning to end —-And the author, wb»-
»n, ther Bache, or any othf p«rfon, null lie at a
le- , ch?»p rate, who is not welt piid f=>r lir« like
•p-ithat. Rffi Adams is a conmilTioner,
th, fui the pa'tirutar pnrpoit of renewiiip WithSwe
tbi j <J«n, a very vsiuahie. cwunertial treaty, which
} is 3bnut.e / xptriiif—He-has no salary or pay au
»» ! nexed to his appointmmt—lt is not pro'\ab!e he
wiil leave Berlin to tranfa3 the business. Hut
will tenewthe treaty wi;h the 3 vedifh minister
atß?r!in.
~ j There was no quefliori taken in the Srnate
j upnn or relating to the appoinlmvnt, unltfs it
| were upon a question of poA|»»>emeht to the
1 next day, In which there was not a majority as
great as twenty to eijjht.
A .VIfMBRH OF THE StSATt.
d-
M r F.N NO,
0 ' In Mr. Bach:*t paper this morning is dc
ie tailed the fulfilment of a prophecy, which
nt the Editor fays, we(meaning himfelf) made
r " about John Adams, when he was ap
'; pointed Mjtiifter at Berlin : viz.—" When
" John Q;_ Adams the son of our President
vva* from the Hague and sent to
u , " Berlin ou a new appointment with a' ne<w
" " outfit, we that he would be
" made to perform the circuit through the
pir " northern Courts of Europe, with a new
" autfit at each removal, as such business
'* would he found more profitable than any
' " he fottld follow,at home, and as it was
e " the duty of every father to provide hand- ,
. " fome'y for his son, efpectally when it
re j " could be done at the pnblic cxpence.— '
j " Our hint has bsen taken and John Q.
ay [ " Adams has been appointed for Stock" !
" n » '« holm." ; 1
Thus far Mr. Bache's prophecy and fulfil
r. ment. Now, Sir, permit me. to inform the '
er public, thro' your paper that when John '
of Adams wasappointed to Berlin, he had 1
ijr not a new outfit, other than a small sum 1
whieh was scarcely fufficient to bear hi* ex- !
pence* from the • Hague to Berlin ; Mr. 1
ic Bach* very well knows an outfit to a mim'f- *
»• ter i* generally underftoodto be one year's fa
°f lary, and the law of the United Stated .
fanftions such an outfit—this was not given,
j r and Mr. Bache know* the fafl. Mr. A
ir damo, when he received hi* commiflioa for
the Court of Berlin was at London, from (
p wkich place he was preparing for his voyage
_ to Lifhon, in pursuance of an appointment
to that Court—he bad takea a house there,
>f purchafcd hi* furniture, and paid the fare w
j for himfelf and wife ; aad the facrifica he
was forced to make, in changing hi* route
.. f° r Berlin, wa* much more, iqcluding the
>r aSual expenee* of the journey than the sum
he received a* an outfit, which has been puh-
T lilhed in all the newspaper* a* aa item in the
appropriation* for that year.
Now, Mr. Adamt ha* power* given him
. to negotiate a treaty with Sweden, and i» S
not to recaive a farthing addition, either a*
• salary or outfit ; nor it he to leave Berlin : s i
| This faft may not have been knows to Mr.
Bache, but if he hat any candor, he will
corredl this error, if no more. The re- 2 ,
- proach, contained in the publication of the
- President aad hi* son, will be properly ap- c<
predated by the public, *rhen they know
. the above faAk JUNIUS.
MR. 7KNNO,
" The times" seem to be fill aj.'proachinp that
) may again " try mer.'t fault"—the call is loud
f for energetic to combinct the whole
■ strength of our csuntry ; to make the best pol
lible arrjngemetfts in every civil and mil tary
■ line; and above all, to put the finaa e» in the „
best train—that by all these mesna we naay be
prepared to meet -vhatever evils or Hangers lie
1 before u«. And, " trufling in the Got) of our Ft
: fathers," we ought nor to •« fe.ir wliat men can 2C
1 d« untou»"—but wi(h jiuls,tr/B defythe •u/d-uei ua
; tjgers of the earth and seas. Surely goad 1
men will now unite to promote the i'afety and .
general weal of tl eir cou .try—and not ("uffcr 1451
party views or. passions to influence their ton- w<
dufl. Union is a nation's strength, omjme'nt, P a
and wealth—America united, will ever com- wi
mand the refpeifl of all nalions; but if divided,
will be a prey to all.
It iimueh to be refwted, Mr. Printer, that res
a» this alarming pjriud, there remains any un fatS
•fettled claims for ferviees during the revolution ,i a ,
war ; and we are sorry to observe frvere ceo- •]
■fures upen government on account of the new m ''
emrffion tills »f credit, as they ire called. It is P' a
to be hoped (bis claim way have a full and can
did difiuflion in t.tc senate, where we are'toi 1 it
now is, that all impartial men mav be fatiifud ffia
with the ji) ft ice 0/ our government. The vote r .. a
the heuft, I mud confefs, Mr. Printer, was
not supported by such cleat evidence of equity
as I could wist. The question is, "Is not an .
which promises te ensure ihe pjy Ta '
of the Ml, and to pay the interest annually in
, !f. ,, eXle h*ng«,"an absolute contrail, equal- '
ly binding on nvery citixeo ? All judges of law the
lay it is. Therefore it must he obligatory on
"a government nf laws." It has been fair:
however that n condition i? exprtfcd in the afl
iSth March 1780, i.> regard „
to the principal—and that from the tenor of the
whole it is evident congrrft intended the vt
refpeflive ftatrs ftould p>y both interest and
Penpal <>f «hefe bills. This was undouhiedly
thefjil ; andhid conjytfj expreded in the en
dorjement a conditional promise, " that if the
; states should not be able to j;ay the interest, or
; the principal, the United States would pay it," J
, the late vote of the house might be fnl! v iudi
! fied. But Inch is not the fa/ ; „ 0 condition \% T e
mentioned m the endorsement, therefore, in law,
and in equity.it must be literally binding. Cor- „
trains, and notes for money, cannot be affefUd
j by any other a<Sl or ails of the signer, or endor
ser. Such obligations are complete, and dillinfl, V r ,
and unrcpealable. Indeed no well regulated go
vernment e\ er evades such contratfls, however
arbitrary, becaoTe perfidy is more dangerous tu 23c
a government, than jny stretch of arbitrarv pow
er to extort by taxes, or forced loans. If this
on.ipatmn should be referred to the judges of the
>U]irenie court, and thejudirial powe/ ileclircd V
that the endorsement thrfr bills was in no dc- dia
gree eb!;gar9ry apun .he Ur.itsd Bti!c«, it woald A
! a be irorc fatisfaclory to impartial men j 21 ma
■s. nv ir>en of the law have ?(!erted that the rn
,jH, "dement is an abfnlule and perfeA contrail for
:I)r p.. v mrnt of the inti-rcft.
Ii appejrs to me, Mr. Frinter, that this is a.
10 very serious fubjefl at it refpr&s the honor and
ty >;ood faith of the itari in, and mure particular y
at this time, u.hco u-e miy soon want al! the
!lr<-r:grli. uhicli the moil pr manet credit and
heft eltab'iflitd cbaniler can yfv« to the gov
i,. crument. AN AM RIJAN'.
i). In a hurricane w|iic!< happ-ned at 3t. Crox,
th J bout the Bth ult 18 *eflcis were loft at the weft
-j end of that ifijnd.
j On the 12th Jan. Mr. Gideon Smith of
<e Stcckbritlgc, Malfochufetts, killed a hog
r, of his own .railing, which was three feet
-V 8 * nea '" ur «'d upwards of gine
u _ feet in length, and five feet round the back
1( . of his (houlders.
Jt Hi* weighs wan five hundred aad ferea
cr pounds!
te ™"
it CAZETI E MARINE LIST.
ir , '
45 PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
A R RIT CD.
Schr. Cornelia, Olborn, Virginia
Sloop Concord, Cahooo, Rhode-Iflaud
TwoSitleta, Dennis, do.
| e CLEARED.
Brig Fly, Briee, Rotterdam
n Rambler, Odliu, St. Thomas
Jt Sloop Sally, John fun, Norfolk
• 0 Diana, Carson, Baltimore
w A schooner from Halffax'isbelotv, which
|e on or about the 3d iiift. fell in with the (hip
c Fame, Derry, froWi London, bound to
New-York, in distress, having four feet of!
water in her hold. The schooner took out
captain Dctry and his crew, amounting to
13 39 persons, just as the (hip funk, and af
l_ tcrwards put the mate and Come others on
j board a sloop bound to New-York; the reU
_ are on board the fchoontr.
{ 1 he (loop Sarah-Ann, Taylor, from Fre
r- derick'ftyrgh, Virginia, bound t.» this port
loaded witii wheat and tobacco, was cilt a
[ way about the 17th oflaft month, and fup
e posed all hands periflied; as the captain's
n chest was picked up at sea by a veflel ftom
the weft Indies, which arrived -yesterday,
1 wherein was found the log-book of the Sa
. rah-Ann, containing entries to the 16th
ult. at which time it was mentioned (he was
•_ a mere wreck. The captain of the weft
ladia veflel saw several piecis of timber, &c.
floating off Chintoteak shoals, whith he
supposed belonged to /aid sloop.
' The sloop Nabby, Cfoufcr, of this port,
r from Bermuda, ha* arrived at.Newbern,
1 (N. C.) with the lof* of tht captain over
board.
t New-Ttri, March 15. \
> At KITES. JUTS
. Ship Jenny, Dean, Cant* joo ,
Juno, Greenfield, Aanfterdam 68
Maria, Sheffield, Charleftoi,
Brig Jason, Weft, Bourdeaux jj
| Sally, Waldron, Philadelphia 5
Bon-Efperance, Shiub, Naples 69
Dean, Wifli*, Savannah y
Scr. Hiram, Murphy, Bay of Honduras 34
Betsey, Watson, Gonaive* 33
1 Sloop Fox, , Antigua 23
, . Yesterday evening his Britannic male fly's
ftigate Thifbe, capt. Hardy, anchored at
tit watering place. .
Capt. Murphy, on the 26th Fffe. in lat, J
25, long. 80, spoke the liip citizen, from 1
New-York. In lat. 34, long. 78, was board- .
ed by his Britannic majesty's frigate' Ceres j
fcven days from Hampton Roads—treated
friendly, and parted.
By this day's Mail. j?
Baltimore, March 14.
i "test from France.
This day arrived (hip Theresa, captaio S:
Boyle, 36 days from Bourdeaux.
Captain Boyle left Bourdeauji the jd.of
February, and brings Paris papers to the tj
20th January, and from Bourdeaux to Jan- j
uary 27, which he has promised us a peruf
a'He fays two of the American com* u,
niiluoners, MeiTrs. Pincfeney and Gerry, •
would leave Pari#, one of whoto .would take
passage in the Pomona, of Alexandria, t \
which would fail {n two weeks. I
Mr. Marshall was to remain until circurn*
fiances ordered otherwise. The deciee
refpefted neutral vefTels with Britilh manu.
taftureS on board, had been ratified a few
days previous to capt. Boyle's failing. No
military operation of importance had taken a
place, but the greatest exertions continued
to be made for the invafioti of England.
From perusal of the latest papers, wa q
mall have it in our po'.ver to lay 6efort our
reader* further details.
On the 30th of January, a report pre
vaded at Gibraltar, that Algiers had de- 3
clared war against England.
The ship Montezuma, capt. Chafe, and
the (hip Carlisle, capt. Bryden of this port,
are lafc arrived at London, after (hort paflii
ges. »
■ ■ i i ■i ■ i
C? A Dated meeting of the American W>ilofo
phical Society ♦wi]J be held at their Hall at fix 1
o clock >hj> evening. mas , hr 6 j„ ,
For NJiW-YOiiK, r, r u
The fine'nrw, f a f) failing Sloop rV'
CONCO RD, .tr
Stephen Cahoone, majer;
Wll.l. take freight on very £'*•
moJerat. urm,; for which or parage (haviog H<
elegant accommodations) apply tohhc matter on 1
board, at Clifford's wharf. Pl*
march 16. ■'* oj t Tc
. LAND I N G
From cn leard the Schooner p ANOiK, from *"
Jacsoueufi,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee, cri
For Sale b f Jk
SAMUEL HAYS, * ni
. Np. t»7 Chefnut-ftreet.
> r.ohi« remaining on hand 6,100 pieces In- r,e '
rfia NANKEENS, of* C«p«rjor quality.
Martfh IJ. 44; w
m:- • —"" h
r fo n ; ( L Al\'S OF ?ni- U • ITEI) STA TK:L
og Fifth Ctigrtfs of the United Stat*/ <
-ct AT THB SgCOND SKSSIOK,
ine Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
ck i« the State of Pcnnfylrania, oil Moo»
da J, the thirteenth of November,
en one thousand seven hundred
and oinety-feveß.
AN ACT
• l< or tbs CTiß'ian of a light house, and placing
Laoys at thefeveral placet therein mentioned.
Sec. (. l^ Ei < foSed by the Senate and
J Ifotsfe «/ Rtpi efentatives of tin
United States of America, irf Cong reft affcotr
"a bled, That a* soon as the jurifdijtioimf so
" d much of the head land of Eaton's Neck,
on Naflau Island, i.i the date of New-Yerk,
as the Preftdent of the United States shall
m deem OifScient and mod convenient fur thq
•js purppfe of efc-fti,,g * light house, and its
appurtenances, fh*ll have been ceded to thf
rc United States, it shall be the duty of the
-. !l fecretiu yof the treasury, to provide, by
contrast, which shall be approved hy the
to President of the United States, for build«
lr! £ s house thereon, and fvrnifhirJjf
ut the fame with all necessary supplies ; nn4
r° a 'f° to z S rec for the salaries or wagej of the
perion or pcrfons who may be appointed by
the President for the fuperintendance and
:l - tare of building the said light house I—And
the PieSdent is hereby auihoriged to ijiakt
e " the said appointments.
rt Sec. 2. And le it further entitled, That
a " the fecrctary of (he treasury be authorised
, anf l djrefled to caufc to be placed fix buoys
5 on the shoals called th? east and *
m and the middle ground* near Sandy-Hook.
''' o ff th ? harbor of New* York, and two hu'nys
a * on the north and fourh points of Goat-lfl
-1 andj near the entrance of the baiW cf
" Newport, in the slate of Rhode lilmd ;
and also, to cause to be placed such number
of buoys as may be neeefTary for the fecuri
lc ty of the navigntion in and near the har
bor of Nantuekct, in the fate <jf Mafia.
'» chufetts.
'» Sec. 3. And le it further enaßect, Thai
r ' there be appropriated and paid, out of th«
monies arising from the duties on imporia,
and tonnage* a fu*i not exceeding thirteen
* thopfand two kundred and fifty dollars, for
° tke purpoCrs aforefaid,' '
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentathtf
* TH; JEFFERSON,
F\tt President of the United States
* and Pref.dent of the Senate
Ukitid St*t»s, 1
* Approved, March 14, 1798. f
JOHN ADAMS,
President of tht United Sttttt.
1 AN ACT
To provide for the widows and orphane at
' certain deceased officers.
]'T) E "laSed by the Senate and House *f
' XJ Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Con S ref t ajcmOed, That the pro
vtfions for widows and orphans of commit,
fioned officers of truopsof the United States,
contained in the firft feaion of the law p 3 ff, '
ed on the seventh day of June, one thou,
land (even hundred and ninety-four, intitul.
Ed " A)j aft in addition to ati aft makinjf
fiirtiicr ai#i more effeftual proviiion for the
protection of the frontiers of the United
' be and the fame are hereby extend,
ed to the wid«ws and orphan childien of
commiflioned officers of the troops of the
United States, and of the militia, who have
died by reason of wounds received Once th«
fourth day of March, one thousand feren
hundred and eighly-niae, in the aft.al ser
vice o, the United States; Provided, appli.
cation shall be made within twe years afte*
the end of the present feflion of Conprefs
JONATHAN DAYTON, ' *
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
TH : JEFFERSON,
A'tee President of the United State* .
and President of the Scnait,
Ulf 1 TED StATXS, 1
Approved, March 14, 1708. f
JOHN ADAMS,'
President of the United States,
Deposed among the Rolls in the office «f
the Department of State.
TIMOTMr PICKERIte,
Secretary of State.
NE\V-THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, March 16.
Will i>e j.r«feut;J, a I called,
H A M J, E T;
PRINCE or DENMARK.
Himlet, ra r KcniicU (being hisfirS
in th:it thjrafler thrft four years) Kinp, tnr W»r-
Glioll. Mr Marlhall; Hofatio, mj Fox; I
erf.e*j mr HarHinge; Polonius. Mr Motrin Ro» •
ieticra: j, mr Warrell-Jvm. GuiMerfre-n, mr Tsy.
lor; Trancifce, mr Bliffett; N'sr eUu» hjr T
1 Varrrll; Bernardo, mr Warrdl} Uiuic. Mr Frail
; c,s; l.ueianu'. Mr Bliff.tt; Grave Digger,, meflr.
Q. en, mrs Merry; Ophelia, mr. Marfrsll;
Puytr Quren, nn l.'Eftiargc. ,
Ttl which will be added, aComicOp ra, (a.peiv
farmed at Covtnt (Jirden 'i'heatre, upwards
150 rights) calkd
LOCK AND KEY,
Cs* On Saturday,(not afted this Season)
The Rage— with (for the last tine) Oftar
ana M'alvirta.
# 0° Monday, The Way to get Mar*
ried:—with entertainments.
t+t Mrs, MERRFt night will b*
Wednesday sexw...
» f •
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, i
1 MARCH i, 1798- 1
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r t ,i„ a a -f ce-rrtfs raffed on the futh day ps July one thousand seven hundredand
IN purfuaiice ofd*Afr ¥ dutjcs cn Veiljm, Pare!,men, and Papet , and the
TJtlFeA^thl fifteenth day of l£cmbcr, one thousand seven hundred and nm.ty.feve n ,
« Im'. poS,«e"i» limited time the 'commencement of the d.fift imposed ny the 4= -
Id "An Duties on Stamped Vellum, Pare!mot and Pnper", that from a-.J aftrr thr 1
frrft d.iyof July enf.it,g, the enumerated, will be levied and colle •
ted throughout tlx United Mates. , <
For every ftin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (hect or piece of Paper, »pon which ftiaU be
written or priu.cd a..y or either of the instruments or writing, followmg-to wit : ,
Any LtteifcMo of the admiffion,enrolment .rregiftryof
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attojney.Advocatc or Profler, in any Cpurt of the
V "prov!deJ^ih at 1 Certificate io any one of the Caurts of the United SWtes 1
for «ne of thefaid Office, (hill so far a. relate.' to the paynieot of.the
duty jfore nid, be a fufficient admilfbn in all the Couru of the United
State*, foreach and erery of thefaid rfTjcea. .■
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granied lor military Cervices) - ' . 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military fervicen) - . 2
Any v-harter-Party, Boitcmry, or Refpondeutia Bond, * - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will o
the'r te'Hamentary-jeiftrument, or for any (hare or part of a "
virfed by force of any statute cf diftribulions, other than to the Wife, Ch
drcii or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whet cot lhalb
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
vtu thelmou.lt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
Ihall not exceed five hundrod dollars, - r" e
And for everv further fun. of Five Hundred Dollars, the actional sum of ,
Any Policy of liifurants or inflrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vtllcl
goods insured from one diflridl to another in the United State.. -5
From the United Staresto any foreign portorplace, when thefam for wli.
Insurance is made shall net exceed five hundred dollars, - 5 __
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dol.ars, " 1
Ai"y Exemplification, of what nature soever, that flul pas« 'he fe» °tiny
Court, other than l'uch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of fucli
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular flue, - 5
Any ttopd, bill single or penal, foreign or inland b| l| ° l ' exrh 3 "S e » P r01 -
note or other note, other than any recognisance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contradl, made to or with the, United States or any Hate, or for their
uferefpeilively, - - - * " • ,0
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred doilais, -
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 5
!f above five hundred dollars and nor exceeding one thonfand dollars, 5
And if above one thousand dollars, - - . lS
Prtvided, that if any bonds or notes (hall he payable at or within sixty da**,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeft to ouly two fifth parts of th. duty
aforel.iid —viz. * , , , i
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred " j *
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollair , I
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thouland dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, - * , * , . .0,l
* Any Notes issued bv the banks now established, or that may herea. er _ ...
lifhed within the United States, other than the m»m of luch of the fald Bank,
as shall agree t- an am ual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeilivtly, according to
the following scale. - " . * <
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each c,ollar, " ," '
On =ll note, above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one handred dollars, 5 o
t n ail notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - ' " J
Os all nr.tes above five hundred dollatls, - -
ny Protest qr r'.lity Notarial aJV, * " " . ?
ny Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or toobtaiH or fell War
' rapts for Land [.-ranted by the United States as bounty for military services
perfoi-med in the late war, - . Jj.
A'-y Ctrtifioa!»or DcV.sntuit t*6r drawback of Customs or duties, for leu than
five bundl ed dollars, - - - * " 1
1 or five hundred <lolUrs m l net exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
rcruioie ihjn t«o thouland doiars, - - .
An . diMe or bill "f lading tor goods or merchandize to be experted.
If frt;in on. dtftuA to another diltriel of the United States, not being is the
fame State, - 10
1* from the United States to any foreign {Sort or place, - is
Anv Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effi£s, made in any
cole required by hw, (except in cases of goods chattels distrained tor
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any' Certificate cf a Share in any fnfurapee Company, of a (bare in the Bank #f
the Ur.itrd*tat<s, cr of any Slate or other B*ul:,
If above twenty d ;'!ar'f and cot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above oiie hundred dollars, - - *5
If.under twenty dollars, at the rate ef ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The datiaJ afcrelaid will be tolledled and received by the Supcrvlfors, Infpe&ore aud other Officers
ot liifpeeiion, *in the several Survey* and Divisions of the United States, aad by such other
person., a. fliailfrcm t« time be specially appointed and empleyed by the SUpcrvifisrs of Diftrids for
that purpose.
r HI.
The Supervifsrs of the several Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July enfu'mg, and as soon as
reay be prifticable, mark orftarop, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels ef Vellum, Parch-
Bient or PaF er > vvith tny cf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ;Or
Ramped vellum, parchment and paper n.aj at the option of the Citizens of the U-rited States, be ob
tained at the preferibed hy law, by application to any Supervisor, Infpe&cr, Officer of InfpeitioO,
or other ntiloa appoini<d fer*tlie distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftricls.
GIVEN undtr My Haai, at Philadelphia
the day and year abweJKentiotied.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Marsh 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
th« estate of Willam Fliewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceal'ed, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelKd ; and these who at* indebted
to the fame, are desired to make ilfcmediate
payment, te
_ T 02J.D08!
No. jj, So. Tlard-flrett. J .
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to he had at the Book-Acres of Mcffrs. Doi
son, Campb f.Lt, Younc and Ormkod, f
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Canfes and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
j To which is annexed,
ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
• different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting inter etling facts and reflection* relative to
the Syncchus iaeroHn, or Yclloip Fever, which
has occafioncd so nrtich distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
\ towns of the United Slates of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philolophieal So
ciety. ' Feb.l—*.}m§
For lale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
QITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth Ilretts, fronting th« State-
VUufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
ob Walnut street, ami one hundred and thirteen
feet and ati half on Fifth flreet ; there are at
v present two small two flory brick houi'ei, and a
number of fmaJl tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houfe6
With convenient floret, wharf, Stc. fituateqn
Water ftrett, between Mulberry an J Saffifras
Streets, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east- .
ward ninety-fivefse t, then widening to the I
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses '
have the cojiyeqier.ce of a public ailey adjoin
ing en the north fide, and area very dtfirafclefit
i uxtion for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occation for florage of gpeds.
Thi» properly will be fold on very reafonabie
terms for cash. For further information apply
»the printer.
July 31. irc&wtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to oontra£> Sis busi
ness, offers this Estate for on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast aod three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forges all
in perfeft repair,as are alhhe Water Works connefl
ed with these various branches. The Air Fufnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two Aouiand acres
of Land, one half of which i»under wood, theothcr
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfatlnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for notoue of Gxty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 84 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed on proving. The liiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafture, and a place ol arms lying in the Bate
of Conne£licut,and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty 0? water issuing
from » large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufefut purpoles. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have possession
on or before the full of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean lime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For'
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, B.wid Waterman, on
thepreroifes, or totbeproprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM N2ILSON.
Dee. t. - 3awtf
NOTICE.
A Manufaßery of yellow and delft -ware,
Such as never waj in this Country before, has been
Ween lately erefled at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudson's River, Itate of New-
York, wbeie any article of various forts and [hapes
may be executed, as well as earthern (loves upon a
new conftifjfiion, that favea three fourth* as the fuel
commonly used in call iron (loves or opeit chvmoics;
they aiebt(ides*ery wholcfome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of thefaid ware. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South ,sth Street
P ? b. •q. eod4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and con vsnient HOUSE, in or near
the eentreof die city—for which a generou-s
rent will begiven; to be taken fpr a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of tiw Printer
OS. fj. tot{
To it S 'J,
Ari elegant Country Seat, 0
Containing 6 ..-res and 4> with S««t
two ft-ry brick Huafc uud kitchen thereon, au ap.
pie Orchard, -Vc licuau on the Infc traA V*
Uie towuthip of Moyamenln«, aoou< one mtk from r
the citv of Philadelphia. Further
be made known upan application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette. S
The improvements upon this place, for Ulie an i
elegance Uaiid unrivalWd. .
N. B. If tbe above place is not fold u cfore the
aotb inft. it wili then be reWcd, lor the Suuimir $
f-fifnn only. §
Wanted, i,
An asive, cleanly, industrious woma. to cook
a/id do the bufincf. of tlie kitchen. Suclt a one
will Imallowed good way-ej, and no other oecdap
ply. —ISrtqi:ire of the Primer.
February 7
Freft l eas.
JuJ} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, f
Captain Cooper, from Canton, c
And For Saltr, bv (
SAMUEL HOWELL, h
At his Co«npti»g Houft, No. Chcfnut-dreet,
AND BY 2
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Cowpting House, Crooked billet wharf, c
Bohea, Souchong,Hyson,Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS., j
ALSO, i
CUina Ware, affsrted ; blat;k and coloured Lute- £
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden (
and common Fansf, fattin and lutettiag UmbreUis, .
whale-bone flicks. i
7bey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Pcrfians, Bandanna Handkercht-'fs
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
march 8. - •_
1 o be Lit on the Shares, (
A valuable Farm ready stocked, t
WITHIN 3i miles from Philadelphia, on the
well fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike.
It is exptfled the tenant will find fuitableper
f«ns t» take care of a dairy ucd attend market,
with all ether lieceffary labour.
ALSO, WW(TID,
A Gardtner —a Single Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, un'.efs they can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street.
march 5.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be ihade for the renewal
of k Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the Subfcri- _
ber, No. JOO4, and dated July 11, 1797 —the fame
having keen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 „ '^ w
- tstlet;
Ar.d may. be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent Hand for
AW ' r 9Wsf „ r+r, .
march I. § No. 5, Dock-Hreet»^
Landing this day,
From oh boifcd thtfchoofier Two Friends, Dan
iti Crawley, Maftef,
80 hhds. and J J ama i qa RUM,
T7, pipCS ) J 7
FOR SALE BY
Gesrge Latimer Ss 5 Sftti.
Kavertther 9.
Canal Lottery —too. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth
irift. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street—
' Tickets In tht Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor rsgiftar
ing and examining in these, the Oity of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Patu-rfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moftjjof the Lotte
-8 ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
r N. B. Thebufinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public. Stock and Securities,
' difcosnting Bills and Notes of Hand, £ale of
Lands, Houses, &e.&c. will be duly attended to,
by , WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confifls of 910 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadaw, (the residence of the late
:e E®rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently diaided
s, into five farms, four of which are bounded oa the
ft East by the river P^faiek.
11 There ate on it a number of buildings, forming
t- afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
■" is a vary convenient one,and a fmalleipence would
n put it in complete repair.
:s The orchard confifls of 1500 finabearing engraf
" efl Apple there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—a* also a great
• ' variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
a l be ft and Eioft delicious kinds.
nj Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
.j ForeftTreos, that add to the beauty and eonveni
j_ ence of the place. Its lituation is abcut 18 miles
of from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
le from Morris-Town, and la from Springfield—lt
1» is wooded and watered.
a- To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ig in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
e, quire of ' T. McEUEN & Co.
cr No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. eodtf
) D Neiu-Tork, January 14, 1798
n- PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
:1- Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
es For Publilhing by Subscription,
50 An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
- CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London sdi
'cn tions in a few moiiths,) will be comprised in 2
■g. vo ' s " o< 3 ava > °i 400 pages each,
w. They will be printed on fine paper and a new
'es type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
a and lettered, at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
time—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on dejivery of ihe firft volume—the re
y mainder the work is compleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
™ be made.
45" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water flreet—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in Ncw-Yofk-- Also, by WilJiam
Voung, corner > f Second and Chefnut flreet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
ar Philadelphia.
u-s As si.on as a fufficler.t number of Subscriber*
>0 are obtained, the work will be put to preis, and
compleated with the uttnoil dispatch-
I'tb. 10. eodsra
Virginia Lands.
On Tuetoay the 20th inft. will be / oW for
Cash, by Public Audtion, at toe Mer
chant'* Coffee-Houfe, at 7 o clock iu
the evening, . #k _ ' g
r-pHE following bodies of Laad 1,1 the sca I
X of Virginia, viz. u
M,600 Acre* situate on the waters ot Big si
SlC 2 C on tie waters of the Little Ken- t(
harva and the we# fork of the Moiiongahela. b
C-4 CO Acres to the waters of Burhannon river, j
Particular defcriptior.s of the Lands and an B
examination of the titles may b?had by appl> - n
! to _ .
° Footman fef Co. Audhoneers. *
March ii. dtaom o
WO 1 be fold qTi Wedneflhy the b
lift of March, a' 7 o'eMt »" everting, at *
ihe Merchants' Coilee House, for c; in,
\ GREEAHLY to the last will and teOanwnt ot .
William Keyfhasm, decesfed, and pc.le.wi-n
,;, t „ immediately, a valuable property m Arch
fireet, between Third and Fourth Ureas, confuting
or the HoufeNo. 107, with the Lot on which it
stands, a Stable and other improvements. Ihe
house is so feet front and contains ten good apart
ment*. The lot is "of fame breadth as the huuie,
and 109 feet deep, with a well of water, and a (;
.very capacious walled eiftern, both with pumps in S
compleat repair. The Cable ftar-ds on the re rot j
tht: lot, and will accommodate four horles and a £
carriage. This property oojoy. a perpetual privi- <-
lege of aa6 feet e»ort and an alley 8 feet wide, ex- j
tending to Cherry street. Its central position, and »
the advantages it poflttfTes with refpeA to free ven- ,
tilr-tion, renders it well worthy che att-ntion of
any person wilhir.g to pofTefs an eligible property
in Philadelphia. _ ,
Robert Hcyjbam, or "1 Afting
Francis Bozvcs Sayn, j Executors.
CONNELLY £3" Co. AuS'rs. j
N. B. The horfre will be open two days previ
ous to the fale.for the iafpe&ion of thoie who wish
to purchase. _ march 7
Fft o M P0 R T-A U-P KIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by the S'JBSCRICZRS, (
110 hhds. Coffee , \
46 tierces do.
Ico barrels do. f
100 bags d© 1
no hojjlheaffs of Muscovado
80 barrel# of do.
40 hogfceads of Mokiftes
4 bales of Corton
% T»ogiihc«ids of Cocoa
WILLINGS isf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march it, §
Eamling~7rom on board the Ihip
Tenneflee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SaLE by the Subscribes*,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platillus
ico do Creas
$7, do. do. Ala Morlaix
I©o do. Dowlas
20 do. red striped A raftias
20 do. blue Guineas
100 dozen bordered Handkerchiefs
Eric & Lewis Btllmanp,
111, South 1 hird-ltreet.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A oafe of printed Muslins and Calicoes
march I a. S3t
Hibernian -Society.
A Special meeting of the Hibernian Society
for the Relief ef Emigrants from Ireland,
will he held at Mr. M'Shanc's, Third-fireet, on
. Friday next, the 16th inft. at 7 o'clock in the e
»ening.
The Anniversary Meeting of the Society, will
be held at the fame place ob Saturday the 17th ioft.
1 at one o'clock hM.
t Dinner will be cn the table at half after three.
r Those intend to dine with the Society, are
requested to fend their names to Mr. M'Shane, on
, or before Friday next.
MATTHEW CAREY, Surety.
march 11. djt
; The Creditors of the late Mr.
: John Gould
, Are requested to meet at the house of Wil
liam Smith, Walnut near Front street, cn Thurf
f day the 16th inft. at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March la. 4t
The CornmiffiontTs
FOR carrying into sffed tht TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendfliip, Limits, and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty and the
is United States of Am.rica, hereby give information
:e to all Person* thereiii concerned—That in order
d to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
,e es fuftairiedby the citizens of the United States, in
consequence of their Yeffels nd Cargoes having
g been taken by the Subje<fts of His Catholic Majef
fe ty, during the late waj- between Spain and Fraoej,
[d that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of tea and one o'clock, daily) all
f. complaints and applications, authorized by the said
,d Article, during ttfritTicN months, from the day
it •£ the date hereof, and that they have power to
ie examine all such perfoni as come before them, on
u&th er affirmation, touching the complaints in
d qusftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ-*
U ten testimony, authenticated in such manner at
;s they (hall think proper to require or admit.
9, By Ordtr of the Commijfionerx,
it PETER LOHRA, Sicretary.
CommiJJiuncrs Office, No. 109, Mulberry
's frect, May I Jit, 179 7.
Feb. 18, '98 —slm
Those Printers in the ftveral States wlo publijb
t- ed the above advertrfemtnt lajl Spring, are requejled to
re-publijb it one month, and fend their accounts to P. L.
8 To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Jenfs, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC ") Of the vintages of 1790 and 1791,
j LATOUR J in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
TOR SALE BY
PHILIPS, CRAMOND 6f Co.
march 7. 5
[}„ —1 - ■ ■ * -
2 A Wet Nurse wanted,
A healthy Woman, who can be well recommen
w ded. Apply at this Office,
id march n. §
'L To be Sold,
e- A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot
■£*. thereto belonging, in the city of Burling
-10 ton, New-Jersey. The house has three rooms
ill below, and three chambers in the upper story.
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buihting. The
g- Lot ha 3 a front of 74 feet on PearMtreet, and
g- the fame front on the river Delaware. The
nt length of the Lot is about 150 feet—The ho»fe
sn commands a very pleasant profpedl of the river,
id and of the Borough ofßrjftol, on the Pcnnfyl
s, vania (bore. Immediate pofTeflion may be had.
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
rs Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi
id iad«lphijr, 01 tiie fubferiber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE.
I Bii.'ling-.cj), irarch 1. 'eßdlw
Custom Hou.se,
DWrtftof Pennsylvania, Mar.b 6th, 179;,
MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
JL who may have any account or knowledge o(
the capture or detention of any Ihip or vefTel, car*
eo, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States rrfiding within this diilri&, by or
under the authority ot foreign uations, lnce the
firft cayaf 03oH. r, 1791, *r J particularly relief
tedtogive in information thereof, t6 the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient; fpecifying the name of the veflVl,
the caotaiu'S name, the number 01 tone, the efti
mated%luc of the vessel, if condemned, the oft.
mated value of her cargo, or other property, vrhi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captufed, with such observations at
may be though: nectffary upon the circuistlances
of each cafe, in order that (tatements thereof may
be tr ;r.fmitted to the Secretaiy of the 1 reafcry,
who is required to lay the fame before the Seuate
and Koufe of Reprefentativss of the United Sutts.
march 7. '' oe .
FOR SALE,
by the s'Jßscriukk*, No. 2i, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and price*>
Coflaes Punjum Cloth*
Sanahs Guizey do.
Humhuras Charconna Dote*
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Marnoodys Cheeks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmui do.
Guzzenas Bandannoet
Gurjahs Siflerfoy
Piniifcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatcbjs Sooty do.
Gillit Romsls Persians of various col.
I Mock Pulicats
soo tons SUGs.HR
90,000 lb. PEPFER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
II Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
| commodious ftorc the north weft corner of
j Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs- of e!e-
I {ant pattern and best colours.
I February 8. f
Landing
| Frtm on hoard the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
A few Tons Ruflia Clean Hemp
306 pieces Ravens Duck
I 950 pioces Ruflia Sheeting
soo bolts Ruflia .Duck, and
J & quantity of Swede.-. Iron
For Salr by
JOSEPH ANTHONY Co.
I WbobaveoH Hand,
I ift and ad proof Bourdeaux Brandy
| 4th procf Spanilh ditto
I New-England Rum
> Madeira Wine in Pipe*
London Market 5 and luarter1 uarter Ca& »-
I Old Claret in Cases
14 hJids. Coffee just arrived
Be ft Befton Beef in barrels
I Mackrell in do.
I Halifax Salmon in do.
I A fnrull Invoice of Rhode-lfland Checfe
Spet maciti Oil '
I Tanners ditto
I No. 1* i, 3, Boston Sail Ouck
j Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glaffi Ware,
j March 1. dtw '
FOR SAL 51 '
; The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
j NEXT door but on« to the corner of Fi/th-ltr««e,
| occupied by the fubferiber. Its eligible firnation
j is well known—The rooms are spacious and con
j venient, and finifh«df in ahandfbme ftile—lt his
j a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
J Ice House and rain water Cittern, and there is a
■ I Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
j march 1. Jiw
J *|P'HE term of Co-parfnerlhip between the fuh-
JL fcribers, trading under the firm if John MH
kr, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed* The debts and coo
-1 cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
J Jun. to whom all those indebtedjto the partnership*
j are earueftly requeued to make payment to, witit
-1 j out delay.
- JOHN MILLER, Jun.
1 ALEXANDER J. MILLER*
r j February 19 ?tf
LANDING,
' From on board the Ship Sally, fraa
Calcutta,
) I
. | AND ro* SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBE*,
1 1600 bags prime Sugar,
l I 800 do. Ginger
f I 30 bales low priced piece Goods.
| John Miller, Jun.
j I march j I
- FOR SALE, by
' John Miller, jun.
N«. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrahs Mameodies
Baftas Sannas
" j Guzzenas Tanda Coffaes
' I Guzzies Emcrtics
_ I Blue Cloth 3 Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchief*
Amongst them are a great proportion of thema-
I nufaftures of Patna.
• British Dry Goods,
" 1 1 ALSO,
[ ' j Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. y. Miller & James Davis,
J Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of"
Alexander J. Miller iff Co.
" I TN FORM their friends in town and cojmtry, that
j JL thtyhave opened a Wholesale Dry tiood Store,
I at No. 64, South Front Sfreet, Philade! phia ; where
'* I they now have, and intend kcecping a general af
| foatment of India, Gtrmsn, Irjh, French and Brt^
- j tijb Manufactures for sale, on advantageous termt
I for calh or a fbort credit.
I Febraary 19 §" -
" I ROSS & SIMSON,
1« I HAVE FOR SALE.
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, ana
J 1 a quantity of Bengal COTTON
le I Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
r Jamaica, S
r I St. Vincents, /S- RWM.
,' I and Bengal J
. I 300 calks RICE, and
I A parcel of ihip beilding RED' CEDAR#
I oa. 0.1. —_i—
' i Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
I A few ehcftsof excellent quality, for a J e » r
\ nor of Second mi-J Pine fcreets. Dsc *6—