c-f makt Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
' tfyxßEn 1579.j j
Marshal's Sales.
Uj»lTfD STATSS, I ff
Pemijyhaniu DiJlriS. J ■
7 O FICE is hereby given, tiSt iu purfuaitce of
4.N a writ to m« by the Hon. Richard
Peters, Esq. Ju 'ge of the Diilriit Court o( the
United States, ra add tor the PsrfhTytvanft Oif.
will fce expired tu Feblicßale at Uu CuHoki
houf-, oa Monday, the 29th day of January ioiit,
at 12 o'clock at noon,
i box of Sugar
1 bags of Coffee
1 barrel, "> . .
r half barrel, and C of Limes
x tub J
2 jars of Honey
26 Pine Apples
2 kegs of Spirits
X keg of Sugar, and
7 barrels and one half barrel of Sugar
The fame having been libelled againlt, profe
.sted and condemned as forfeited, ia the said
Court—by
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marshal's Oj|i ce,
J 7th Tanuarv. 1798.3 19 —dtaoht
Cuftom-Houle bales.
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798.
ON Monday, tne 29th 6t January, 1708, at 12
o'clock, will be fold by public au&ioi;, at the
Cuflom-Houfe., ia.puffnance of the laws in that cafe
made and provided, the following artrclfrs of mer
chandize, having been liored more than nine months
and not claimed by the owners or consignees thereof;
which articles may be viewed during the space of
three days antecedent to the day of sale, between the
.hours of nine and two o'clock..
FCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
Mp£ Oae cafie, ceotainiug Books and Pamphlets
R P Threec2E»7«ohlaTntng GirtJTWcb * '
(DU) One cask, containing Spades and Shovels
W Four casks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and iieaos
IS One keg of Red Leadj
<> WC One crate of Earthen Ware
JJTM Two do. do.
WL One do. and two cases containing Images and
ornaments for building
[No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
flight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB One cask of Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing pieces of
Music
Ms.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Aubley • One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewter Lamps
B One box containing Bruflics
G. Bolland. One calk containing afcheefe and some
041 meal
yR One crate of Earthen Ware
R. 14, One crate of Earthen Ware.
*3 4t29
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February aext, will be exposed to Public Site,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe in Second-Brett,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
Jg STATES.
N«. X. A xwo"ftßry riricn tiaule, with 2 two
flory frame Buildings, on a lot 10 feet front and"""
XOO frt (deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet iquart,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interefl has lately been let for too dollars per an
num, and is situated in Chriflian-flreet, between
Front and Second-ftreeti, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. 2. A three story brick House, situate at
( thc north taft corner of Chcfnut flreets, being 14
feet 011 Second-street, and 20 f«et on Chefnut
ftre.t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the befl (lands for the sale of dry good, in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finilhed three flory
brick House, lo feet front and 10® feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-flreet, between Market and Arch
flreets, No. 40. This house is built and findbed
in the modern flyle, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Tlieieisa cittern
of .r»in water in the yard ; and the houfe'is at pre
fert let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb-flreet, between Second ants Third flrret,
being 20 feet front and 13© feet de*p, at prelent
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three flory brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-flrcett No. 171 fforth, going thro'
to Water-flreet, Where it is five flory. It is Vt
feet front and 48 feet deep, ia complete repair,
and ik rented for 60c dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash,
onei^uai m *in 0 liiuniln, om. quailir inymtmlhi,-
and »ne quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan. 11, 1798. 3awtisF
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the Prejident and Managers,
this day, a dividend of j dollacs per Jhare was
declared for the laji half year, which =wi!t be by
them retained, ftr the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable toa resolution sf the Stock
holders the 12th June la/}.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia & LancafierTurnpiieCom'py. ]
January 8 m&=wt,w
To be fold,
AN F.LEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- !
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple 1
Orchard, <tc. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the '
■township oS Moyamenfing, about one mile from ;
.the cily of Philadelphia. Further particulars will '
be made known upon application at the office of 1
the Philadelphia Gazette.
Thfc improvements upon this place, for taile and 1
•elegance, ftrfnd unrivalled. ]
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for t-he renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, {landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July n, 1797, the fame r
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. v
For Sale by the Subscribers, 1
Pi jtne Rict in whole and oalf tierces d
Bottrdeaux Brandy F
T-nenJp: Wine c
fllilajjfs
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Dusk and one bogfbtad of paiit f
brujhes. i]
N. is" y. Fmzer. t
.Vs. 9j, Sonih Front Street.
\\l>. 7. 'dim
PHILADELPHIA; FItfDAY EVENING, JAhUARY 26, 1798.
Ar Marfbal' s Sales>
MM Slut.s, 7
Pmnfylvmln DiJlriß J "
. O"* virtue of an order fro® the Diilriil Court
-D of th* United States, io and i»r the Pennfyl
vaoia DiOriA, will lie expafei tt> sale at Ctiefimt
5 wharf. ons«turtJaythc »7th»)3 at f % o'cluek
at noon, for the benefit of the concerned-—vot.
14 da. hollow glass
394 Straws ghls'tumblers
iod Pieces Ruflia sheeting
118 Pieces ravens duck
55 Pieces fail cloth <'
1 Barrel and one keg of copptr nails
9 HhAi of Beef
3 Bblf. Pork
2 Jack Screws
31 Sails, 2 fine flays
t Hhd. Vinegar
2 Drip stones
2 Small and one large water jars
d 2 Guns with carriages
1 Old Cable
I Iron lanboon
% Side boards I table
1 Copper boiler
29 Coils of cordage
9 Fipesand 1 hhd. of Gin
The fame having been saved from the wreck
of the ship John, Capt. Fotjcr, and libelled t
* gainftfor f^lvage.
I William Nichols, Marjh-al.
- Marlhal's Office, )
'* J" l '*"' '?9 B, 5
'f On SATURDAT, 27th infi.
" Qt6 O'clock in the evening, will be Sold by Pub
lic Venooi, at the Coff«e-houfe,
« An elegant House, No. 78,
fN W a.aut-it rcet, which is feet front, by J7 1
feet deep, with * lot r.%ifiing to 1-1 Terr. wWe-, by
72 feet 9 ioehesdeep ; this lot is back oi the house
s occupied by George Willing, Esq. The house is
completely linithed in every refpe<9. It is 50 feet
deep, has two large parlours, the front one 24 feet,
the back 21 by 18 12 feet ; a handsome drawing
room 24 I*2 by 24 feet the rooms below, the
I drawing rovm, and chamber adjoining, have ma
hogany doors, and these rooms, as well as the rooms
above them, have a communication with each oth
er ; the height in the firftand second (lories are 12
fcet,and those rooms have stucco cornices »nd nine
f looms up llairs, befidos the garrets, which are di
vided in'o three rooms, a good kitchen, walh and
milk house, fcower and plunging baths, a large
ice houle, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet} inch
alley, that leads into Fourth-street. The cellars
are laid with lime and floored with two inch plank
and plaiftercd : the yard i» well pawed, aud the
house is clear of ground rent; it is rented for one
: year for 400 ponnds per annum from the 4th of
November last. Two brick stables in Walnut
ftreet, with two coach houl'ts, one of them will
hold two carriages, the other one; the fmallell lia
ble has room for three, and the largest for four
harfei 1 it is 21 fact front on Walnut-ftreat, by 50
feet 3 inches dfcep ; they have excellent lofts over
them, and are now rented for 100 pounds per an
num ; the cellar is arched and laid with two
inch plank, and will hold about 100 pipes of wine ;
is clear of ground rent; has the privilege of an
ti-t-2 feet alley, that leads into Fifth-ftreet.
Also, a large brick store, 33 feet front on fourth
- flfimr, J. -Wfr. jnhigh might at 1 finall expence _
be turned into a handfortie dwelling iieule, Having
been so contrived ill the building: it has a yard 48
feet fix inches deep, by 24 Wide; has a rain water
pumpand necsffary, and the cellarjis laid with two>
inch ji'ank, and is now rented at 250 pounds per
annum ; the rent was paid down for 18 months.
This building is fubjeft to a ground rent of eleven ,
dollars and three quarters per annum |
A lot situate on theeaft fide of Fourth-flreet, 20
feet (ront by 50 feet, it joins on the end of Dr.
Rulh'Si lot, and has the privilege of a three fc«t al
ley adjoining, it is fubjeil to a ground rent of Ux
dollars per annum.
Purchasers, before the sale, may apply to the t
futfeiber, Gforge Meade, or 1
FOOTMAN & CO. audioneers.
FOR SJL.&*
By JOHN MILLER, jun. £ss* Co.
No. 8, ChulnUt-ftreet, <
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are, -
Gurrahs Mamoodies T
Baftas Sannas f
Guzz nahs Tanda CoiTaes {
Guzzics Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes y
Palampoors Roraail Handkei chiefs
Among# them are a great proportion of the
manufactures or ■ ■*...■ 2
Decetnber I. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(▼ia New-Y'srk)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. 2J, south Third ftrect,
An exfenfive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worfled Bindings, aflor-
Makenzie'sfuptr,patent ted colours (
white chapel Ntedles Imperial, diaper, ?jc<J
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Llfle do.no. 130 to 500, Black nd coloured Chi
regutarly allotted irefe Rihbands i
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do,
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to I2d
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattias
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. de. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wire! Plam gilt and pfeted
Black brush Feathers Buttons
And a complcat aflortment of Goods, fjitable i
to the present and approaching fcafon, at reduced
prices Dec. 6. dtf- S
NOTICE. P
AI ,L perfon-s concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnlyfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the unaermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for. \
warded them under cover of a letter addrefied to
John Anfley,of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June lad for Lon- I
don. But that (hip having been captured on her .
pafiape 4hd fentto France, the above letter and m
clolur?s have failed in their de(linatio;i. .
Three certificates, viz. ''
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four lhares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and c ,
ifTued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- p
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphiaj, nevernber 8. 2aw6\v
By John Fenno, N" up Chejrmt Street.
For Londondenv,
W'ilbam Whitrea, maOer.
t A flatit ch jooa vctfel, has the
gre r pr..rr «t i Kr bo#rd, af»4-wiit Utl at
sco» as tr.» rf ffcudy anplfti
tion is u.aie, a law caJWfciU b t^^enfreight;
for which, unS pfcTag... : 0 the at.
wharf, octh£ fubfertbrrs.
John Siyrin,
taiiderlbergcr's wharf, i
George Dobfon,
No. 2s South 3tl Street.
For Freight or Chatter,
To any Port in Europe,
ONE hundred and furty-oae tons
bmrtheft—Stauurh and well liailt, and fails
For terms apply to
Jcfeph Anthony Co.
January 17 §jw
t Nicklin & Gri^|4th,
At Store on Walnot Street Whar—
f FOB SA LF,
58 hhds. of Jama/'ca Rum
Wadeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Tenerlffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Impetial Tea in quarters and eighths of cherts
SaW Canvass, No. i, to 8
Diiniries, G!iig'rt»ms t >nd Muflinets, in packa
ges the Weft India market
Nails alTsrted , .
1 Blaek quart bottles
t Qjieens ware in hbde-atf 1 , e. vh
• Y eilow ochre dry Jo eaflis-»'
t And at New-York, onboard the
, ship Diana, from Liverpool, expeifled round
; as soon as the navigation is open,
1 Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
5 Spanish Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Brown PAINTS
Parent white
White lead
Red lead J ,
Cotcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
N. B The late firm of Philip Nicklin <5 Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January i. eodtf
For Savannah,
tro-sun—THE MRSf OPENING,
Ti'.c fcfl failing ship
SWIFT JACKET,
Patrick Gribien, Mafler,
W W'g 'wharf below
Market St«eet—has handsome ac
conimodatroirs for paflengers—For freight or paf
fege apply to the Matter on board, or to
N. & y. Frazer,
9J> South Front Street.
Who have-on hand, and foir Sak,
Primeßice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina tadigs, Molasses in hhds, Teneriffe'
wine, &c. &c
December 27
for A.nifterdam,
&£t fa r M e /e '
John M'Cctllom, Mafler ;
' n a f £ " K ' days, the
part of her cargo iieing
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
flreit wharf, at to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i» K&nding, out of the said Ship, from Bour-'
deaur< and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, }
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in bores
november 24. $
For Sale or Charter,
W[k.. GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about 1100 barrel's.» :d
sfc&lSigQis ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-flreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and TenerifFe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch is holm,
A new vessel, with exceile- u
accommodations for pafTengers—
Sails on the 10th of December. For "freight or
Paflage, apply to . ROSS to*
IV'm tuve fa difpqfc of,
A small invoice of GIyA'JBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel or HOLLY'WOOD.
November 18. £
Chocolare and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufa&ared,
GINGER and I'epper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Betr,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; rtfd, Port <\nd Lisbon Wine,
fuitahle far exportation or home confumpiion:
The highest piice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Becking and
common Baizes, a varieiv of colors; a bale of
Ftiilians, Shawls, &c, for Jafe by !
JOHN HAWORTFI,
' No. 98, south Front-street.
Nov. 27. m.&th.t.xj.
To be Exchanged for
Briti/h, German, or India Goods,
■ IN THE FACKAGC }
( \ A-trail of yahinbh Lund v. v
JfcfiJoiJjiigjjQjfting that of the Holland co.
ar.j u>,eoo Acres.
hi quire of the Primer.
, »
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lag« aiid boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RTJbf.
• und Bengal J
300 casks RICE, end
parcel of ship building RED CEDAR,
i Oft 27-
just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Youmg and OrMkod,
in Philadelphia,
• . OBSERVATIONS
Oa |Jie Qr.ufes and Cure of Emitting or Bilious
Feversl:
To ivbrch is
AN 4 BSTRA)OT of the opimonsand pradlice of
cifFerent authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting irKerelting faAs and reflt<sliona re!.-,tive to
fh"cSynocbus TSeroiJes, ar Yellow fever, which
has occaaoned S> mach dWrefeafnd »nortality, at
diffcrefk periods, in federal of the (laport towns
, ■ of the United States oi America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felluw ol the Philudelptiia of Phyficitns,
and Member of the Aancric&Q So
ciety, &c. *3»n^
Salisbury Efiate.
THE Subfcrjber, proposing to contrast hii bnfi
nef#, offers this Ertate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Farge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air FurnaCes
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood» the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
Pafturc. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 3a pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Conne£licut, and onlyigo miles from several land »
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can r«fult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flpck. and utenii!s» and have peffeflion
on or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait wfll be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, 6cc. See, For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia< David Brooks, E> r q. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, D.ivid Waterman, on
tbepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
D»e. t. gawtf
Canal Lottery—No. il.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
ift'L Tickets for Sale in thi* Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at W.m. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet—
ficlcets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, ni 'Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept ior regilccr- ,
ing and examining in these, the City of WaJhing
toh, 5f0.11,. and Patsrfon Lotteries, artd informa
tion whete tickets may be had in most of the LottC- ]
ries aßthorifed by law tn any of the States of the
Union. j
N. 13. Tht l>t\finef< of a Broker, in buying and ]
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, ,
difcountrigj Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, tloufes, &Cw Sic. wail be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBUitN.
[ november Is. §
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ, \
Txacher ol Vocal and inlfrumental Mafic,
RETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and ,
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very (
Hberal encouragement fisce his reiidence in this ci- )
ty, and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub- ,
licgcnerally, that, in csnfequooce of the r«qu«l> ,
of some cf his friends, he ha 9 opened a Mutical ,
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where t
he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. & ,
He deena's it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive fronr. an inftituti t
ou of this kind; he will only fay, that attention [
and zc3i are -mach excited in an afrsmbly, where t
numbers are in pursuit of the fame obj-it. His |
arrangement is such, that an interference of the ~
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies c
and Gentlemen wlw cin not mate it convenient to r
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their j
houses. Apj lications will be thankfully recriv- t
«d at hii houft, where his terms and further parti
culaasmay be known.
Dec. 7. *lweod
Janies C. Ssf Samttel W. Fisher,
AT THE.R STORE,
N0.513, corner of Arch and Front flreets,
HAFE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worlted HoCery in trunks, afiorted
A few ba!t9 red, white, and yellow Flannels ;
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs i
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto <
Ditto Pondlcherry and Madrafs ditto i
Ditto Gurralis i
Bengal black Taffttics 1
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cheftibeft Hyson Tea 1
Alfi-—lsoo boxes befl London -,v Glass, '
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 Khils. Glass 1
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
noveml er tB. 3awtf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preft, and will be published'
with all conveiiient expedition, by ZtCH A
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, atjd at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, .until th
work is ready for the fabforibers.
Ji'ly 18. aawtf
To Be Sold,
A G3.EEAKLY toihe last wijl and testament of
.1. Wiiliim Ht ysHAM, Jfc 2fed, a:id poflif 4
fion given iiuaied'ateiy, a valuable fJMptrty iu Arcli
T ftrcrr. 4ct*frc Tbirfl a«x' Fourth ortffift
• ingof the i.un'l';, >.'o. ic;, with tfie lot on which
it is *reoic4, a uiid other imprr.vcmeiiu.—
The ha.if- is 10 feet frout, and cSkrairis ten ;;oud
apartro*r>t». ~ kifis of the feme hpredth a> t!i« .
fcotrfe and 109 feet deep, with a well of water aa.l
a very capacious wqlle 1 cittern, both with pump»
io goop ripair. The fiiblc Sands on the rear o{
the lotand'wii. accommodate four hoHcn and a car
| riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of i 16 feet court andau aHey, 8 feet wid#,exte»d
mg to Cherry Street. lc=«nfal position and the
\ advantages it puffefles with re£pe>3 to free ventila
tion. renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfan wifliing to poffrfj an eligible property in Phi
laueip'nia,
For iurther particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or > Aifting Executor«'/
Fkancis Bowes Sayrk, J
January 11 §
\V. Haydon,
. Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has liudied icveral years under one of
tha mail eminent mutters in tfat science)
Tf>KORMShiS iricuds, that he has re-commene-
JL ed his private Terms, a» ulual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Li;«.«fe, allkinds of Ornameptal Paint
ing, fruit, Suw.'s, &c. tAitght on th'e above terms.
W. H. flatten hinifelf hi* ter.us will be pvtictl
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no- additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
' A line directed to W. H. left at the office of tlii»
Gs ictte, wiU.l>e immediately attjaded to.
9. §jw
The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uroi>, mailer, captured by
a Spaniih privateer and {old at Cetita in last De- '
(.ember, may receive interesting information ref
peifling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
*„ * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States wilt render a service to',the
concerned, by infe'rting tht above in tbeir ceWf
papers. ' Jan- 3.
N O T i C fc.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements,
IN confequeDce of maaiy having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, thty
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixiydays, at N». 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will beconfidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT, •
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December tf. c t
fost,
PI thfsCity, on Sunday November 16. 1797,
a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 8
notes of hand to Read & Pisrie, as follows,
John Duffield's, for 441 dollars 73 cents.
William M'Laws 435 37
George Way's 177 19
John Doaks 11 90
Edward Clayton's 60
Do. 30
Do. 27.
John Brown's £lO6-15-11
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvaniariote— an or
der upon Walter Franklin,Efq. in favor of Charles
Read, ani sundry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforefaid
notes of hand being IWp'd, a reward of 11; dollars
shall be. paid to the person or persons bring
ing said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to
liead and Pierie, No. 6j, CbeDiut Street and tio
questions alked.
January 19-. 'eetht.
War-Office of the United States,
January the \JI, 1798. I
WHEREAS frauds hav- been praflifed, in t.
obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the Officers and Soldi, rs of the late Continental
Army, by the pi«du«ion of forged inflruments.
To check in future such impositions, it has been x
thougl t 1 '.vifeable ; that all persons, having claims
for bounty lands, whether iri their own right, as
| legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any inftrum'ent
or deed of transfer, he required to forward their
rsfpeaive claims to the War Office, on or before
thefirftday 01 January 1799 m order that such
claims may be duly examined, adjuftcd and deter
mined upon
To fub/lantiate such claims, a ftri& observance of
the rules heretofore issued from th# War Office will
be indifpcnlahle ; and in addition to what is require
ed by the said rules, the certificate of the acknow
ledebment of a Deed or Power cf Attorney, must
-also set forth the place of refidente and occupation
of the claimant or perlon making ftich acknowledg
ment ; and when the pioof of personal knowledge
is by a witnef* orwitneffes, thfir place or places of
residence muff be set forth in like manner*
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
J all, 7' d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recvr to th? only
means of becoming perfeiSin the French Lan
guage.thnt he has juil opened his Library, cou
fifling of upwards of 1500 volumes, the heft ca!-
culated to afford either ufeful inftruSion, or pica
fure. Tl>.e conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Librr ry, may he seen at every took-feiler'n
in totvn.
n. B. At! tranfTntions from and into the French,
Englilb
Li:rac> ard dilpatch.__ coim nov.
Imported ("via New YoTk)~oiTthe
ihip Hero, if am Madras and Calcutta, and fcr
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefaut Orect,
between ieccnd and Third Streets, jhe follow
ing articles.
Mahvaßonges Charcouna Dor«n«;
Cmntz and Calicoes Dacca worked muCins
GiilisßotnaU Bandannoes
Nillai & Fenfiafoea Chafia Romals
Blue c.orh Hair ribbon
Mill I MiUUnui Kerchiefs
Piwna do. Banares Opium
LelTcr CarJimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
/otcmbcr l 7 \ v tuths 4 w
[Volume XUI.P H IL A D EL P 111 A,
FRIDAV EVENI.M'J, jAS'OAET <6.
' I 1
SCIPIO—tjo. XIV. 1 ]
Whoever (hull be at the trouble of reading ;
Ibe documents which Mr. Monroe has an- ,
nexed to his pamphlet^-id eaufed to be pub- ]
lifhed by hi* confidential friend Bache, will ,
learn from them whether, the variousinftan- |
ces of tnifcoDduft which have been the sub- ,
jest of my observations are not fully sub- ,
ftantiated. Let them be repeated: ,j
ill. It appears to me he did mifreprefijnt ]
to the committee of Public Safety, that he . ,
was not authorized by the President tc cotn- |
plain of the decree of the French republic, .
* derogatory of our treaty with France, which j
Would naturally make an iraprefiion that the •
Executive eithtr neglefted the rights and j
interefls of the citizens of the United States i
or were afraid tp complain of the injuries aiyl [
spoliations done to tlieiV perfoni and proper- t
tan impreHioti no less dilhonorable to the {
Prefidtnt, than mischievous to our com- v
mrrcial fellow citteens. _ r
2d. It''appears to me h| did of his a
own bead inform the committee, if a e
departure from the treaty was found on ex- c
ptric :ce advantagioifs to France " bis gov- (.
troment and the people in general ot his
country, would bear with it not only with
pati-'uee but with pleasure," by which abe
jest and onauthorized declaration he has in £
some measure contributed to bring on our j
commerce, the ruinous system of depredati- a
on Under which its has been, and now is fuf
fering. _ h
3d. It appears to me he did misrepresent t
raiCfion of Mr. Jay when heafferted that c
it was limited exclufivclyi to two objefts,the p
delivery of the western posts, and coropenfa-
tion for injuries to our commerce, by which n
means he laid the foundation for certain, dif- ];
appointments and diffatisfaftion »n the pert e
of France, with whatever treaty might-be n
made between this country and GreatEEr- e
tain. m
hit duty, promise to communicate to the p
committee the treaty negotiated by Mr. Jay p
so fobn as it was in his power, and did em „
dtavour to obtain a copy for that purpose j,
before it could have been laid before the c
President of the United States, by fending e ,
a fpeeial messenger to London for it. b
sth. It appears to me he did encourage w
the projeft of a loan' of a considerable sum j
' of money to be advanced' on the credit of
the United States, to enable Franceto prof- f (
ecute the prtfent war, and relying on the t i
promise of France toreimburfe it if it should
beat a future day able; a measure incorn- t ;
patible with the continuance of our state of
iicntrality, which was the course that the „
Executive had determined, with the appro- a
batien'of America to pursue; a measure, c
that, by depriving the United States of their j
own resources when mod wanted, would £
have made them completely dependent on t
the f»rtune and will of France. v
6th. It appeari to me he did negleft to a
use, seasonably and diligently, the means t
nut in his power by the President for ex- (
plaining his conduft relative to the British 1 (
treatv, and for difpglling the prejudices and ,
obviating the difconipt which, from the ; ,
extraordinary exertifllfis of the French fafti- ]
on in the United States, it was supposed, 1 j
might be excited in France. j ;
I have omitted, and (hall orait to mention
the other matters of inferior consequence, (
which, according to the documents, exhibit (
our minister in an unfavorable point of view .
as they tend to (hew h>s constant desire to
reccommend France to the affeftiohs of our
fellow citizens; and to excuse and palliate
those afts of injustice of which we have had
so much cause to complain, his zeal to make
himfelf agreeable to France, his indifference
to the feiuiments of the Executive, and his
undue preference of the interests of France
to all other objefts, with the blind and infat-
I uatedparty who take fide with France agjinft
America, these traits are deemsd meritori
ous: with such persons Mr. Monroe is wel
come to all the merit that his late ministry
can entitle him. It was becaufethat I con
fidtred him as one of them,_a« he himfelf has
avowed, that I read his book, which eon
tain's that system of attack on our prtfent
government, deemed by the party, best cal
culated to introduce important changes.—
As it contains a great deal of his correfpo'n
dence upon matters unconnefted with a vin
dication of himfelf, or an accusation of his
employer, the late President of the United
States, I should not have persevered through
the tedious talk, but from a desire to be
truly informed, from the documents them
felvcf, and from an intention, if the narra
tive appeared unsupported by them, to offer
to the public my reflections on his conduft.
It was to be expefted that, this dismissed
officer, writing under the influence of re
sentment, would endeavour to exhibit in an
rodious view, the wife and virtuous statesman
who has juil retired from the helm; and I
dm fare no person wilt fay his narrative is
deficient of the malevolent spirit which has
charafterifed the publications of the party,
and efpecialJy, those that are printed by his
friend Bachc.
Let me explain what is meant l?y jaying
that this'book a part of the system of at
tack opon our present government, from
which the French party expeft to produce
important changes.
ft cannpt have efenped the observation of
the intelligent part of society, that they,
■who Were*pipofed toour prtfent government
at itt inllitution, have generally, after find'
ing theirefforts unavailing, which were made
to its firft operations, and after finding the
affeftionsof the people towards it, not on
ly attached, but encreafing, pretended to be
fatii-Scd with llie conllitution; they wave
changed their opposition, as theyfay, from
the <>overnmeht to the administration. It
13 alio weil known, that tbey here bsen in
viri.ibiy in concert witli the French cabioctj
ami that Mr. Genet \vas inflruffed to attempt
to produce fomA alterations in our go/era- 1
ment; and if, 0:1 his arrival th 6 circumitan• i
ces of the couitry werefmfavouraUlr to foch
attempts, that they might btf deferred to a
more convenient opportunity: I refer to Jug
inftrtiftions publithed by himfelf in 1 794>' !
It is -notorious,that whatever has been done
in France, by the ruling power of the day, 1
was approved and jufti/ied so fooh as it was
known by the French/action here; and that
whatever the French faftion has from time :
to time attempted or avowed here, hasbeei)
maintained by the ruing pow
er there. This harmony for so many years
has not proceeded from accident: It has
been the result of a combioaton between the
opppfition leaders here, who are defir«us ta '
be in power, and the French cabinet, who i
are ambitious to regulate the affairs of Anne- ' J
rica, a3 well as of Europe. The bufine »' ;
is well understood on both fides, and this u
mon is founded on the ambition of both, i
Rather than not have the administration in 1
their hands, which might give an influence
to be used in creating radical changes in the '
constitution suited to their ideas; they are i
willing to obtain it by the aid of a foreign •
nation, and the latter is willing to bestow it? «
aid to mea who are expefted to be Fubf#rvi- t
ent if not devoted to its will. With thi? 1
objeft plainly before them, their Reps have t
been direfted thither without looking to the *
right or to the left. c
When the late Prefidcnt had demonftrat- £
fd, as every aft of his adminiitration did '
demonstrate, his invariable policy topreferve r
the United States in their independence ; 1
andthat he never would bethe toolof France <■
'n tacking them to her, as a province in fa ft, s
however they might be io name; from that }
time it became a maxim in the French coun- I
:ils, that the confidence and affeftion of the »
people in George Wa/hington was to be <
leftroyed. It was forefeeti by this comb:- t
lation that, so long as the public Ihould be- '
ieve their confidence and affeftion well '
:d in him, his measures, and the persons <
noft aftive in maintaining them would be
:fteemed: Consequently, that his system 1
would be likely to be continued, and the I
idminiftration confined to men who had ap- <
proved, that system. That the weight of 1
President Washington's services might be di- '
ninifhed or taken away, calumny and falfe- '
lood have been at work day and 'night— >
:ertain gazettes in our country have teem- *
'd with every malevolent fiftion that could '
?e devised against him, and not cpntent <
yith taking editors of gazettes into pay, as <
[ believe is the cafe, there is also reafun to ■
relieve that the French republic have hired
everal writers to criminate, revile and libel i
he conduft of our late President, of whom <
Fom Paine and Fauchet deserve to be par- I
icularly noticed. I
Some of these writers have exprefled their •
Tiotive to be, to convince the people that, I
is a general he scarcely deserved well of his 1
country, and that as a statesman his admin
istration has been unwise, wicked, ungrate- i
fel and perfidious : That they have been
undeT unaccouatable prejudices in his favor, '
which mull be removed to f»ve their liberties '•
and that all who have sustained his adminis
tration, have like him, been traitors to our
country, Sc ought to be discarded from their
confidence.
This is the foira of attack now carrying
on in which Mr. Monroe by publilhing his
book is conceived to have taken a part, and
in which Tom Paine has already made his
appearance. Connefted with this fubjeft, '
I (hall draw; the attention of the public to
the letters hi Tom Paine, written at Paris
to President Wafhignton, while the writer
resided in the house of the American minis
ter.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Delate in Foreign Interourfe.
MONDAY—JANUAHY 22.
[Continued from yesterday's Gazette.]
Mr. Dennis (aid, notwithstanding the
extent which the difcufiion had already af
fumerl, he should offer no other apology for
offering forne fentlments to the committee,
than, that he thought the fubjeft capable
of being placed in other points of view,
than any in which it had yet been exhibit
ed. This question naturally divides itfelf
into two grand divisions, the firftas to the
competency of this house to interpose in'the
manner proposed, the fecpnd admitting its
competency, the expediency of the measure.
Th is firft division is again sub-divided, for I
he understood the gentleman to contend,not
only for the negative power to controul, by
a refufal to appropriate, but for the positive
creative power of fixing the grade and num
ber of ministers ; not merely the power of
regulating salaries, but the power of reftrift- I
ing the grade and pointing out the Gourts
at which they were to be employed. Gen
tlemen's arguments result in this, that, be
fore the President can in any instance pro
ceed to nominate a minister, a bill mult have
previously originated in this house and have
gone through all tke formalities of a legis
lative aft. That whenever the President
has proceeded, before this previous requi
site has obtained, he has violated the con
stitution. He did.not believe this eonftruc
tion warranted but cootradifted by every
aft of the government. He conceived the
idea founded in error and amongst all the
novelties which now pervade the world, he
did not conceive this the least extraordinary
—lf they believed this doftrine well found
ed, why did not gentleman at the last sessi
on, w! Ift their solicitudes were so much u
nited, left the executive should not befuf
ficiently disposed te accommodation with
the French republic, why did they not,
uhuft him on thefpecific propo
sitions which ought to be made with that
government ; direst him alf<» as to the num
ber of mioiftcrs to We employed ? Why, in
fliort, -,ave not those, whp have very gfave- n
'ly inferred &we Sre tworo to'Tupport the a
coollitution, »nd wh" ww oo*uder the exe- I
cutivc a; unauthorised to appoint, until it o
be declared hy the k-giflature that a minis- a
tor fhail'fce appointed. thole, who consider P
themfej.es as ceotinels orer the liberties of o
the people not only as to thofepoints, which v
lye wjttin their own sphere, butin whatever n
d'epartrcent they may be placed—why do t.
not the? now inllitute an impeachment for tl
those nimcrpus instances in which the Pre- p
fident has made these unauthorized appoint- h
ments,, and consequently tranfeendtd the n
boundaries, preftribed to bim by the con- I
ftitutior,? It wafiuppofed there existed the g
fame right in thfc-houfe tabulate the nilm- h
ber and grade of mmiftew, ps to regulate h
the number of jugjes ; but -it wag quite a t
different thing. Regulating the number of w
judge! w,'S a legiflative aft ; but the c
appointment of foreign roiuifters was as n
ftriftly eseautive. He believed in the foi-| ti
mation of a judicial system, it was necessary n
for the legislature to a'feertain the number of ■ b
Judges necessary to be employed to admi- b
nifler that fyftem—for they were so united a
a«d dependent upon each other, that the v
joe could not be regulated withoutattending ti
[ to the other—judicial systems being objefts 'v
too, of municipal legislation, varied accord- g
ing to the ideas of different nations, and as- 0
certaining the number of judicial officers, si
was, in all nations, whose government is c
divided into departments, an objeft of le- v
foreign ministers are cxercifed in the ma- n
nagement of a system founded in the law of t>
nations and being independent of municipal t
authority,,is uniform throughout the world, s
and therefore the moment a tninifter is ap- v
pointed, the office over which he is to pre- "
fide is immediately created ; and for this h
reason in all nations miaiftcrial appointments c
are veiled in the; executive. If this were t
not so, and the house wei-e to aft upon the o
fubjeft, it would bt necessary fcr them to I
be possessed of all the information t
could be had on the'fubje£l. k
It was asked, if there were,no cafe in f
which the legislature could refufe an appro- [
priation when it was required by the Prefi- i
dent. It wasfufficient for him to fay, that t
the cafe before them cftuld not be of that t
description. He believed cases might exist, a
in which a refnfal' would be juftified ; but e
it would be one of those glaring cases which i
would at once appear. Such a cafe, as in I
the judiciary department, when juries de
determine damages to be so enormously high c
or low, as to induce the judges to intercede c.
for a new trial. " I
Mr. D. took notice of what had fallen- e
from Mr. Gallatin, as to the poflible abuse a
of this power of the executive, and replied f
to it ; and a Hedged that the reasonings in f
support of jhe amendment went more to an J
annihilation of the diplomatic corps, than i
to a reduftion of it. For if all foreign mi- 1
nifters were both useless and dangerous, as 2
it regarded economy, it was best entirely to t
abolish the establishment and instead of fa- i
ving a few thousand dollars, to save the i
whole expence, which forms a veryhandlome I
item in our public -faring. If all lriluiftcis j
were dangerous, as alledged by that gentle- ]
man, because, they will inveigle us into the /
political fyftejns of Europe ; why do tbay ' 1
propose to-continue them at the courts of <
London and of France. Thef; are the na
tions mod interested to make impreffiotis up- 1
on our agents, and these are the nations, 1
where political party, (in which our minis
ters are said to be always liable to be invol
ved) is certainly carried to the greatest ex
tent. He considered all "these arguments
and many others as being rather applicable
to an entire subversion of the diplomatic
establishment, a fubjeft not under consider
ation, than to the partial deduftion which
was the objeft of the amendment, and by
uniting whatever could be said in favor of
each, their arguments had a meretricious
influence -calculated to seduce.
It has been said too, it was untieceffary
to have a minister at Berlin, and he ought
to be recalled because we had no commer
cial concerns with that power. This then -
amounts to an affirmative assertion, that
where we have commerce, there we ought
to have political agents- But we nre by
the fame gentlemen told, that commerce
needsoe political proteftion. He believed
this might be tme, in times of general tran
quility, but at this moment of general in
ftab.ijity, at this period of national caprice,
when the political regulations of nations
had been changed two or three times in a
year, in a manner the mod injurious to our
commerce, was it of no consequence to
have political agents to obviate evils of this
fort, before they came to maturity. Our
late minister to whose assertions
gentlemen to give the highest
credit, has informed us, that on his arrival
there, the work of alienation was at a dan
gerous height, and that by his exertions,
reciprocal harmony was for a time restored,
and the gentleman from New-York (Mr.
Livingfton) has told us what important ser
vices he had rendered us, and had he. have
■ continued there, the probability was, our
fhendfhip would have continued—lt will
be recollected, that whilst he was thus re
- futing the arguments of those he meant to
support, it was his objeft to shew, what
ourUt to be the liberality of the executive
• in l of their appointments ;
and he forgot that whilst he was arguing a
r gainst. the employment of ministers, he was
: proving them very necessary thinge, provi
: ded they could be felefted according to his
• choice. But I need not be particular to
f cite these instances of contradiftion, forfo
numerous are they, that I will put the e
■ vent of the morion upon the following issue,
- that it fhall-fuccced when they agree in their
- arguments. He also touched upon the dif
i tinftions which had been made betwixt po
, litical and commercial agents, and supposed
consuls infufiicient to ahftver all the neceffa
t ry purposes of commerce.
The gentleman from -Virginia had urged
n 1 the propriety of the adoption ot this amend
ment, from the fear of the exceptive branch b?
of the govipiment fwallovying up the reft. of
If he believed any danger from, the-sbufe P r
of this government, he should expeft it to ev
arise from this house, and not from the
President. He should be warranted in this ao
opinion from what had been seen in this go- tic
vernment, and by the experience of other wl
nations. His inFerencs from fafts and his- in
tory were different from those drawn byo- hj
ther gentlemen. Since governments df de-' jt
partments have_bcen instituted, Evolutions tl ,
have most frequently happened thraujb the ot
medium of the democratic branch. The co
. Eoglifh government, for iirftance, had ori- a |
ginated in a monarchy and aristocracy. It Wl
had at full no detnmrracy in it. lt~ was,
however, by degrees introduced ; and in ur
their revolution, monarchy and aristocracy I it,
were annihilated, and the government be-1 th
came a government of 558 despots. The I* ll
next important era in the-hiftory of that na- j
tion was about the termination of the A-
merican war. At that time the monarchy p,
became unpopular ; the democratic branch ■ th
became noifyand clamorous, and wished to th
annihilate the gfcvernment.—Their power j*'
was so great, that the king was obliged to !
turn out hi? ministers, and an appropriation I '
'was refufed for the ordinary expences of
government. To such a height was the m
opposition carried, that there were four dif- di
ferent adminiftrations'in two years. It be- tr
came necessary for the crown to be subser
vient to the views of the house of commons,
Mr. Fox and his adherents were ad- •
mitted into effice ;/yet they were disconten
ted, and the king was obliged to dissolve tl
the Parliament. Before the new eleftion, ti
she ? fpirit of the nation, however, so fa
vored the monarch, that sixty of the most Jf'
violent members were thrown out of the 2
house, and to this violent disposition of the n
commons was it chiefly to be attributed, v
that the crown now enjoys so much power tc
over the other branches of government. ""
He did pot know but bribery and corrup- el
tion had fometbing to do in the business ; u
but he mentioned these circumstances to 0
shew, that the change which had taken tj
place in that country had been chiefly ow- d
ing to an imprudent democratic spirit- He '*
thought it ought to operate as a warning
to this house, never to assume powers un
authorised by the conflitution : as every '
encroachment of this kind, when it was
unfuccefsful, never failed to ftrsngthen that a
power which it meant to crush. o
If, said Mr. D. the executive of this
country possesses more influence than he 5
ought, it does not arise from patronage,
but from the spirit of finding fault with ex- t
ecutive measures so. frequent in this house, ,
and from the turbulent spirit which had, t
from time to time, been shewn. The rati
fication of the British treaty occasioned a '
partial disapprobation of executive measures |
as any movement which government could (
have made at that time, would have doue, f
as what would have been pleasing to one set c
of men would have been displeasing to a- r
nother. But, he believed", that this house I
refufing afterwards to appropriate money
to carry it into effeft, produced greater un- '
pojiHTaiTty towards it, than had before been '
produced towards the executive, as it ex
,cited an alarm that the house of reprefenta- >
■ tivet was about to swallow up the powers !
of the other departments of government, j
An eleftion having since taken place, thig '
circumstance, it was probable, had produ
ced a majority in both houses generally in ]
favor of executive measures. ,
Mr. D. concluded, by faying, he did not
agree with the gentleman from Virginia, '
that republican governments were more fob
, jest to patronage and corruption than any I
other. Mr. D. took a view of the patron
age of the British government, and spoke
of the permanent nature of their execu- -
tive. And he believed gentlemen had bor
rowed their ideas of this branch controling
the Mcecntive, from governments which
have a hereditary executive, or aristocracy,
and where if the government once got
wrong from a preponderance in the execu
tive (the people having no controul over
their appointment) there was no other way
of bringing them back, but by an effort in
the democratic branch. But in our gov
ernment the people, instead of giving this
pontronl to the house of representatives,
have reserved it to themselves ; and whilst
the afts of our government, he said, were
perpetually before the people, the periodi
cal reverlion of power into their hands, en
' abled ':hem to mould the government to
their will ; and though some particular
branch of it might be unpopular for a time,
1 it could not long remain so, and he knew
no mode of corrupting the government,
whilst the people remained incorrupt. He
was of a very different opinion from the
■ gentleman from Virginia, in refpeft t.T the
present fituatitfi of the government of this
country. His idea was that the people of
• the United States had come to an enlight
> ened unt'erftanding of their duty ; but, if
■ there should be any danger of shaking the
government, he believed it would arise from
5 this house, and from no other department.
1 Btft he believed the dangers which were
now conjured up were rather the dreams of
a disordered imagination, or the crudities I
0 of indigested political opinions, than pro
-1 duced by any real cause : he hoped, there
e forrr the motion Would not be agreed to,
NV- Brint did not intfnd to have taken a
s ny part of the debate on this fubjeA ; but he had
1- j been induced to rife, from the manner in which
s every one who favoretj this amendment had
0 been spoken of ; from whuh, and the anathe
-0 mas which had been pronounced againfi them,
he thought it behoved every member in favor
of the amendment, to come forward and express
'» > his cpipion.
ir | The ohjeilions urgeil against the amendment,
f- , he believed, might aimed be confined to two,
>- ( viz. the incompetency of the houf« to mike the
(J regulation, ind the inexpediency of the n.eafure.
j With rtlpefl to t!.e firtl, he acknowledged l e
| did b: li-ve it vouid have been itnpofiible for
' those who were most ftrcnuous so,- the advance
d ofexe utive power, to have made an excep
i- t'on; hut contrary to lus expedlat'oa it hid
sx:° " b '°^
- ,e . mat Je »Q appointment, it o a . ,j
----"e"s?rily attached to the house to make
P P 8 and that they flu>u| d VlO , ' V?" '
£SKS ?3ft f ih r A * z
which rook nhrA • ' t * ou #kt debate
sir '•
then had upon the fubjeft, « t h e thefrn S
timents of men who had always been £ favour
"i extending the executive power as f*
eo.ld fc ,i ~
a fubjea-or frious regret, to ev-rv m,„ 1?
w.fccd to e thelov«n m ::n rt X *«?
cution, that the doarine everv »W i»i
ledged , few year, a S o, fcouTd f
rrirjr- and ,h " »fcS
t, (hould be charged with a desire of croft ratir,!
bd -«
s i: ■£T
• fake of argument, he Would ,L
; appointment of ,T"
| « mdifpenfable obligation on Congress toVake
true, they wouW find by the ame.HwTat
mtr.ifters to Portugal, Fruffia and Spain, raav
5« remain as they are, provided they are fatis
f,lh«u.h 4 ' 500 dolbrs ' whi " h > «
,k r ' w '"he fufficier.t for any business to
heS/T; - Up °V hC P—P«, l her.fc l e,lf
.theft cooftitutMmd heroes, there was no viola
tion of their do<9rine.
Thedoflrinesofchecksandbalaneeswhichhad V
been laid down by the gentleman from Penn
iylvama, had heen called novel, calculated to
Jlop toe wheels of gavemment. Another gentle
man had told the committee that those who ad
vocate this doarine, meant nothing less than the
total overthrow and deitruaion of the Sovern
mcnt. He "believed it migotywifn great propri
ety, be retorted upon this gentleman, that those
wha treat this doarine as novel, are the gentle
men who to the overturning and deftruaion
of the government. For himfelf, he confidred
tins doarine as a vilaiprinciple ; not as intro
duced by the gentleman from retvnfylvsrnia,
hut as a thing which may be found in every
feature of the coßltitution. Bsi it was a mem
orable circumflanee illustrated in the speech of
the gentleman l from Conncaicut that when
gentlemen endeavoured to prove an unfounded
doarine, one part of their arguments fruftrated
another. This rcmaik applied to the doarints
of checks and balances ; for, though they deny
the doarine, yet they fay there is no ratioml
ipprehenfien of danger from the power of the
president confined as it is by the appropriations
ef this house. Thus, whiift they are rejeaing
the doarine of checks, and spurning at those
*ho support it, when it futts thtir argument,
they themselves acknowledge it>
It was true, when the power of the President
was considered on a rational ground of con
ftruaion, there was no serious cause of alarm ;
but when they found novel conttitutional doc
trines introduced by those Who consider them
selves as patrons of exeeutive influence; and
doarines, which formerly universally obtained„
now exploded, there was fcrious ground of ap
prehension.
It was a(ked whether if it was proper at all,
to reduce our /oreipn min'fters whether it wm
proper at this time, considering the slate of this
country and of Europe ? This remark v( this is
not the proper time, was conflantly suggested
whenever a reform was proposed in any country,
and dreadful phantoms were as conftintly con
jured up to maintain inHitutions, which could
not be otherwise supported. Why was the pre
sent moment more inaufpiciousthan any other?
Admitting the tumultuous situation of Europe t»
be as described, was there any danger from with
drawing our ministers from Portugal and Pruflia.
Or, if wewereinhoßility with them,whit ass. 6fc
could it have on the United States ? Both were
' destitute of aay means of injuring sach other, as
" much ft) as two men would he who ♦ere bound
hand and foot. Mir,ifters were proposed to l.e
retained at London and Paris, and if it would
. accommodate gentlemen, he would have no eb
jeaion to agree to a minister plenipotentiary at
Spain,though he saw no occasion for it He
\ was 110 friend to diplomatic tharaaers abroad.
> He believed foreign miniftershad been tht carfe
1 of modern nations for many years.
, A fulijea of a veiy delicate nature had been
t involved in this. It had been remarked by hit y
•colleague, and had been acknowledged with
.fijns cf exultation from another quarter, that
there existed a difpofhion in the executive to
' chufe to ofliee men of a particular political 0] .in
-1 ion—none hilt those devoted to the admimltra
-* tio»,~Siid ready to jofGry cve/y meifure it has
s ever taken. Inileod of denying this eharge,
gentlemen rejoice in the truth of it, and declare
it has never been departed trom, but the govern
ment has had caufs to regret the departure. The
e gentlemaa from Conneaicut went further.—
" Would not the president, said he, be guilty of
- inconfiflency, to admit any gentleman into the .
o government, who had been opposed to the mea
r lures of the executive ? " What 1 (exclaimed
he) admit men who were diforganizers —men
' whose opinions are calculated to produce eonfu-
V lion and to overthrow the governtrent !" And
'' would that gentleman seriously and solemnly,
e before this aflembly, undertaketo anathematize,
e as hollile to every thing valuable in society. all
e those who think unlavouably of some of the
j s measures ef adminiffration ? If he did, Mr. B.
r believed the world at large would give him cre
dit for the goodness of his heart ! Theworldat
large knew, tliat many of the patriotic aod d».-
tinguiflied citizens of the United Mates, from
ie the molt amidb'e motives which can aauate tie
m human heart ; many who as much devoted to,
t. if not infinitely more so, and admirers
re constitution with those who make their boslls ot
r being so.
Would that gentleman tell the committee,
es for indance, that if one of the legal charters
J * of this country, eminently diflinguifhed in eve
e- ry dutjveither puhßc er p-lvate, (houl-J unfor
tnrut, l'y be of opini.'-n. from the experience of
his be ft judgment, that some of the measures ot
a . the adininiuratiou have been unfavourable to
a j the true interefls orihecountry, that beisthere
.l. fore difqualified Ann a legal Teat un
j drfr i»overninent ? Did he iuppofe he toughl to
. be driven from his situation, beranfe some dc
ma"ogue, ready to sing ftalirlujab to every o.i
----"r iea C of guverr merit, was rec.dy to receiVe it, and
( the other be pointed at with fco-n and reproach I
tS Yet this was t'ne consequence that mult contin
ually follow' the adoption of fiuh a condua by
' the admimftratioo ; and thcrfora, though he
t°' had heard ir reiterated that such was the litre
of condua adopted, he (houldrequire still flrong
l'f er reason to believe the faa. Il he did believe
, or it, he ihotdd believe there a ttrong dilpoii
tion in the <duiini)lrali"n To foment d»vifio»s ar
moiled people of the Unred itales, t« >n-
P, cei ,(c onp pa.rt ofihe citizens agtinil the other,vthit, porh;ns. hrattJfht into that
6fuaf;tm,.»n3 f> --r.if't nnfiiiefrtrijrrjed, they
»wJg!>t attain wkich thty kr£w nc\*r could
+f attained thry remained under the do
minion r-f r;afon Until unequivocal evidence
ot a fact fa dlarmiYig in its nature was adduced ;
until "proof firong as holy writ," appeared, he
would not, therefore, believe it.
Tfle committee hadbeen told, that tlieexecu- j
tive iizd never flepirted from this line of con
divj£l,bnt he h»d l>ad serious eaofe to lament it. 1
The al!af:on was well understood. Our
had called an eminent chara£ler abroad. I; the
executive of the United States had had ferims
cnufe to regret hiving oncetmplsyed this clia
racier ; ihst it should be farmed of such mate- 1
rials as t» regret it, gave him He be
lieved the true int rests of the country would
Wifti hira yet »!• tbst station. He believed he
was of great fervid! to this country. He believ
ed we wene indebted to hinvfor «)»e peace we'
now enjoyed, and so far from regretting his
. having been in office, hi felicitated the country
in having had such a character employed at the
important moment in which he Unit
ed States.
The gentleman fromConne&icut had proceeded
to fay that ti« man who did not approve of the
meafurc-s of the executive could conscientiously
accept of any office under government. He df
fered in this, as he did in mod other things
with that gentleman.' He thnught the inflan
ce he had adduced was an exctptiOn ; and he
would produce others. Might not a minhon
eftlv accept of a military office ; a colleger of
duties, or alrooft any other office under gnv'frn- !
ment, though his political opinions differed from
that of the executive.
His colleague had been very-feverHy animnd
verted upon for ftatingreprefentative republican
governments as tending towards an adhesion of
parts, and by that means towards corruption
He had imagined fiom bis acquaiittar.ee \yiih
that gentleman, that he would never have been
charged witu a want.of attachment to a repub
lican government, and a fair conftimflion of
what be advanced would go to o
pinion. His wish was to prefcrve the govern
ment in purity, and nething more.
Mr. B. concluded his obfervarions by a re
mark upon -what *fell from the gentle
man firom Dulfvvare (Mr. Bayard) ref
office making him more inem 'us than friends. —
He thought him entitled to all the celebrity of a
new <iifcovery ; but, before he fat down, he
i'eemed ro contravenes this opinion, by dating it
as the cause of the great power of the King of
England, that he had so very extenfi-ve an ap
pointment »f office ! He left the gentleman to re
concile two opiuisns so ojfcpftte.
The coipmittece rose aiid had leave to fit a
gain. *
( Debate to be continued.)
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25.
The Speaker laid before the house a re
port from the Secretary of the Treasury, in
pursuance of a refolutiom of the huwfe of
the 2d of February last, with a plan for re
gulating the duties on impost and tonnage,
which was referred to the committee of com
merce and manufactures.
The amendment of the Setwt*to the bill
for amending the several acts relative to the
diities on spirits and on stills, which they
had adhered to (and of course excluded any
conference, -"which is usual in cases of disa
greement) was taken up, and the former
disagreement of the house to it was receded
from.—The bill was afterwartis reported as
duly enroled. f*j"
Mr. Gallatin presented the petition of
Guftavus and Hugh Colhoun, of this city,
praying for redress On account of 121 cases
of Claret, which were seized and fold .for
not being included in the m nifeft of the
cargo of the vessel which brought them from
Charlellon, though the duty had been se
cured by Hugh Colhoun in Charkfton be
fore he sent them off, but ftrhich circnn\-
stance was unknown to Guflavus Colhoun
at the time of the ftizure.— Referred to the
committee of commerce and manufactures.
Mr. Clopton presented the petition of
sundry persons of the State of Virginia, sta
ting that the quantity of coa I in that coun
try was inconceivably great, and prayitig
national encouragement to thei'- Collieries.
Referred to the committee of commerce
and manufgftures.
On motion of Mr. W. C. Claiborne, the
unfinifhed business of y-fterday was postpon
ed, and the house went into th e.committee
of the whole on the report of the feleft com
mittee on the memorial of the Legislature of
1 enneffee, together with the message of the
President relative to that fubjeft, Mr. Kit
tera m 'hr ctetrr; when tlie refoturiorr repor
r ted by the committee having been firft ne
gatived, the committee passed that formerly
introduced by Mr. Macon, firft si ling up
the blank with the amount ot the eftimf te
sent to the house by order of the President,
viz. with 25,880 dollars for the purpose of
holding a treaty with the Indians. The
committee then rose; and the house being
resumed, Mr. Macon moved to postpone tile
consideration of the disagreement of the
committee of the whole to the report of
the feleft committee, which contemplated
in addition to thetreaty, fomereliefbeingaf
forded to the persons who had been driven
off their lands, to the second Monday in
February; which motion being carried, the
resolution agreed to by the committee of
the whole, was concurred in by the house,
and a committee appointed to bring in a
bill accordingly.
A message was received from the Senate
informing the house that they had passed
the bill for placing certain perlons on the
penfionlift, with amendments. The house
took them up, and referred them and the
bill to the committee of claims^
Mr. Si'tgreaves,- from the committee 1 ap
pointed to prepare articles of impeachment
against William Blount, reported the said
articles. They were five in number. The
firft charged the said Wiiliam Blount with
intending to carry into effeft an hostile expe
dition in favour*of the Englifii against the '
Spanish possessions of Louisiana and Florida; '
the second, with attempts to engage the :
Creek and Cherokee Indians in the laid ex
pedition; the third, with having alienated
the affections of the said Indians from Ben- j
jamin Hawkins, an agent of the United j
States amongst the Indians, the better to j
answer his said purposes; the fourth, with '
having seduced Jam« Carey, an mterprePcr j
of the United States atncngft the Indians, '
1
for the purprtfr or affliiing in his crimioal
intentions;. and the fifth, with having at
tempts* to d.miuifh the confidence of the
. Cnerokee Indians in relation to the bounda
ry liAe, which had been run iti consequence
of the treaty which had been held betwixt
j the United States and the said Indians.
I This repott was committed for Monday.
! The Noufe then again resolved itfelf into
a committee of the whole, on the bill provi
ding the means of intercoi*rfe with foreign
. nation*? when the amendment which has for
several days been under consideration, hav
| ing been read. No Gentleman rising, the
Chairman was about to put the queftioh up
on it—wheir
Mr. Nicholas rose and began a speech
which took up the remainder of the fitting.
—lt will be given to morrow.
Adjourned.
Mr. N. Freeman, from Maiifachufetts,
appeared for the firft time to day.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE-
House of Repr»jentatives.
January 20.
Mr. Frailey presented a petition from the
commissioners appointed to raise 60,000 dol
j lars by way of lottery for the ere<3ion of a
[tone bridge over the river Schuylkill near
; Reading praying a repeal of the law under
<" hich they were appointed and praying a
, law may be eaa&ed authorizing them to re
fund the money on the sale of the tickets
j which they made, and that auditors may be
; appointed to fettle their accounts which was
i read and referred.
Mr. Heron presented ft petition from a
number of tbc citizens of Allegheney coun
ty praying that the northern parts, of that
county may be ere&ed into afeparate county,
which was read and referred.
_ Mr. W* Maclay, chairman of the com
mittee to try the contested eltfiHon For the
eounty of Lycoming made report, that Ja
cob Shoemaker is not duly ele&ed a mem
ber, but that Hugh White was duly elefcted
and is entitled to his feat.
The report went further ?nd stated the
mifcondudt of Henry Shoemaker a justice of
the peace of the said county; and offered a
resolution to examine faveral witnesses touch
ing his mifconduft at the bar of the house.
Mr. Hiltzheimer made a report in favour
of the memorial praying leave to bring in a
bill for the ere&ion of a stone bridge across
he river Delaware.
Mr. Linnard reported a bill for raising the
sum of 5,000 dollars to complete lower
Dublin Academy, which was read and made
the order of the day for Monday week.
Mr. Watfen made report in favour of
adivifion of the county of Northampton.
Mr. Bonnet made report in favor of a new
ele&ion diftritt in Somerset county.
The resolution for the appointment of
bank dire&ors on the part of the house was
read a second time and Thursday next was
<fppo ; nted for the election.
'''be resolution of the committee to try
th- <-vntefted election of Lycoming wasj-ead
« tecond time. - - ■ -.
Amotion was made,that the fpeakeriffue
process to the witnesses to cause their atten
• dance at thenar of the house on Monday at
I three o'clock, and- that Henry Shoemaker
have notice giveu him of the time & place
'for such examination.
The clerk of the Senate prefeated four
bills for concurrence, viz. a bill to regulate
the general election thou'ghout this common
wealth,? bill for the relief of Hannah Lew
is, a bill to perpetuate the present penal
laws of this (late, and a bill for extending
the time for application for donation lands.
The bill for the apoin'ment of a truttee
in the county of Mifflin was read a third
time and passed.
The report of the committee on the pe
tition of Francis Mentges was called up for
a second reading and negatived.
Adjourned.
: AUGUSTA, Jan. 6.
We learn by Mr. Hill from the neigh
bourhcod-of Green/borough, that on Fri
day the 22d ult. a party of white men cros
sed the - Oconee river about fifteen miles a
bove Fort Fidius, attacked a camp of In
dians, killed one and wounded two of them.
He who was killed is reported to be one of
the commissioners appointed by the Creeks
to attend,running the line between that na
tion and the fettled parts of this state : Thus
from the wanton barbarity of a few indivi
duals is the peace of the community distur
bed, and the rights of humanity grofslv vio
lated.
SAVANAH, Januar 2.
On Saturday last arrived the brig Atlan
tic, Capt. Brookings, in 14 days from St.
Viecent—previous to his failing, the 3d
Regiment of Buffs had embarked on board
atranfport and failed,accompanied by a 44 ;
it was conje&ured that they were destined
against some Spanish ports. Capt. Brook
ings, the sloop Rofannah, Capt Crooker
j for Wilmington, and the sloop Polly, Capt.
Bec\ley, for New-York, were convoyed by
the ship Jackson, Capt. Ray, bound fori
Norfolk, by whom thty were treated with j
the greatest kindness, Capt. B. IB par-j
ticular confidtrshimfelf under many obliga
tions him for his politeness in heaving too
; his vessel for forre hours till he repaired his
boom, which he carried away.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 6.
About 60 American vessels were lying at
Bourdeaux, when capt. Akins left it; they;
! were at a loss what to do, as no freights
offered for the United States.
Early on Wednesday morning, 3d in ft.
; the elegant dwelling house of John Chefnut,
i esq. of Camden, walf'entirely consumed by
j fire. How the "sccidcrt happened, has not
been His books of accounts,
| and mod part of his valuable papers, have
'been
1 I
t Xf#
~ph IX'A DZL FUTAT
frißay evening, 7-<-Y vary 26.
MARRIED—Iaft evening, Mr. John
Markland, late of Charleston, S. C. to !
Miss C h kistiana Hhisz, daughter of
Mr. Frederick Heifz of this city.
On the firft day of tfext week (Jan. 28)
at three o'clock in theafternoon, a difcourft
will be delivered by M. J. Rh ms, at the
Meeting H«nfe in Lowbjird street, between
Fourth and Fifth Greet*, sot the er.courajre
tncQt of a roiffionary atria ng the American
Heathens . ©n e " t "'si d^y,
at the fairir plicc an* hour, a .Sermon will
be preach'd, and'th'j collection aft«r each
discourse tobe appropriated forthatpurpofe.
The Society under whose awfpiees this be
nevolent plaW is to be carried ifito.execrition,
will be very thankful for every information
that has a tendency to facilitate their views,
and promote a system which has for ks ofo
jeefc the happiness of the human race.
As soon as a convenient place can be ob
tained, ledlures on the fame occasion will
be delivered on every, firft day evening,and
the .society will be obliged to any preacher
of the gospel for his aid to forward their
cause.
Communications on the fubjeft may be
sent to Mergan J. Rhees, No. 177, South
Second street, or to Dr. E. Hickling, No.
36, Chefnut street.
Extra of a letter from Norfolk, to a mercantile house in
• this city,dated Jch. 15.
" Yeflerday a fliip from Nantz arrifed here,
which briogs French paper,* a* late as 7th Nov. at
which tiaw the 4 American. (ommiffiopers had not
been received hf the French government, nor any
piol'pe<St of -if. raking place.
" Thw veflel belonged to Boflon, and loaded
here last year for Natit2, but was taken and there
. condemned. The captain puufcaied her, ana has
br«ught home feveial Ame*i<;ai» captains, who had
been lately taken by the French.
" The captain oi this vfffcl informs, that he Taw
a letter from Mr. Skipwith, inr consul general at
Paris, to the consul at Nantz (received the day be
fore he failed) desiring the latter to inform the A
mericun captains to push off a 6 quick as pofiible, as
an embargo was cxpe&ed rtiortly to take place ;
that uncommon exertions were making in titti«g
out a great additional number bf privateers, and
that every thing bore the appearance of hostility on
the part of France againil this country "
It is laughable to fee the authors and founders of
the School for Scandal, compliining of abuse.
It is amusing to observe the writhings of the fac
tion when charged home with their libirtieide at
tempts to subvert the constitution of the United
States. Good fouls, they ne*er thought of such a
thing !
It is pleafingto trace the tesror of public opin
ion on the minds of the " exclusive patriots" when
an independent appeal is made to the objecft of their
boasted adoration. The ad utptandum vulgus is a
" political heresy," unlets the u exclusive patriot*"
have an exclusive patent to use it.
theatre.
The new Comedy of the Will, which was
brought forward at the New-Theatre last evening,
wanted in nothing but*.more perf*& acquaintance j
with the characters on of the performers,
to have proved the tnofl agreeable and intercfting
comedy of modern produAion, which we remem
ber to have seen for many years. It is an evil which
admits of no extenuatiop, that Mr. Prompter is the
most conspicuous a&or in every originalxeprefen
tation. Thio ls notoply an injustice to t*»e author
but a disgrace sco the performer—for 'tis a in a
man to negle<st the prime duty of his vocation.
But the grace, and natural ease, always infepar*-
ble from Mrs. Marshall's a&ing, and so diftin
yruifliedly confpieuous in thi*jnftance, 'received en- '
hanceaient by exemption from this censure. An
exa<ft and uniform to the line of nature,,
(a merit the most rarely obfervahle, nsWeUas the
most difficult of attainment)' difiinguilhes Mrs.
M4R3HA ll's performances above those of a 'very
great majority of adtr ffes ; and displays the most I
unerring criterion of true genius and discernment :
la Albina Mandeville, her merit defies all eulogy, i
If the play is performed at its second reprefenta- !
tion with thatflcorre&neis w' ic 1 its fuptrior merit
demands, I know of no theatrical production that 1
may more justly challenge generkl admiration and
applause. ~ n
January 25.
There never war. l inu^le' of such dastardly a
bandonment of duty ; Uich a degradation of cha-
an#' national honor, as Mr. Monroe has ex
hibited agiinft himfelf, in his lecter to*the French
commiflary of foreign affairs, dated Sept. 1,1795.
See p. 227, 2*28.
It Items that this minister had it in charge to
procure tho aid of the French in bringing about
a treaty with Algiers. But net eonttnt with alking
their aid, in the ajual manly stile, he took pains
to give France all the merit of effefling a treaty
and of keeping the United States out of view, for
the cxprefspur pose, that the " mediationof France
need not be loft."' The folfewiug is an extras
from the humble prayer and petition of James Monroe
to the French government.
■ " As we are inclined to think as weli.from past
difficulties as more recent advices, that the' fuceefg
of the million, if it does succeed [it ought to be,
fhmild fueceed] will depend principally, if pot alto
gether , upon tbe friendly aid we shall de ive from
this republic, so we think it ad-vifable that tbe United
States Jhall appear to have as little to do in tbe negotiation
as pojfihle, or in other words, that they Jbould not ap
pear in it at all, till it be ready to conclude For if
their agents are known to be their agents, or ra
ther if they are not confide red at your agents, with our
powers, it will follow that the Dey will immediate
ly come t« them to treat with them on the part of
the United States, and of course your mediation and
influence ivill belojl. It Wlli therefore be edvifab ! e to
keep the United States as much out ctf vitiv as pajfiblc,
' for the purpoft oj %t<ving full weight to your influence Znd
the affiance of France there
Scandalou* humiliation ! What, a minlfler advise
aud urge to keep his oivn country out of view, and
■ throw it into, the back: ground, to bring forward
a foreign gov rnmtpt, the mofi firotointnt figure !
Is this the of a patriot ? Je.this the con
duct of a freeman I? this the duty of the repre
sentative of ?.n independent nation ?
" Ihe mediaten and-infiwepce of France would,
be loft !" And what then ? Would it h?.ve injured
j either nation ? Would it have afFe3,cd the honor
!of France ? Not at all. But to have dene this
| would have reflected honor upon the chara<sler and
dignity of the United States ; and tlieTe, whtn
France is concerned, must with *' patriots," be Se
condary confutations. Yes, fays Mr. Monroe ;
1 wish to put the United States " out of view," let
fpeak behind the curtain, rill the bufiiufs-ia
accomplithed, with a view to " full weight
to tf e influence «f Frr.n er M Ht;.ven proted' us !
Suchd;vihrdiv,
and the character of the United States—and :he in
famy attavhed to.the in thvir merited oblivion
t is too light a puoifhmcnt for their d-r >l;ccionScf
j (N, Tori 9omn;ercial Ad<v j
Fto'fnthe Auror a.
Mr. RjcUe.
The feerrs hch a fh*?rr f n?^|
breach ot the laws which declare th»t orts, warre
cue, fbouid c rat is that it weufd be mjuf
t iwt ta the public to cotn e«l it.
A diy-gGod mcrcaant now rcTKicntin this citv. a
native of Scotland, bein? about to go tQ Europe on
fyufirfefs in Novetr \y%r 1796- wishing to obtain an A-
Inerican p*j'tport, ealirtd on fbeeven : ng of the 11-th of
mnn-hai the house in which the Secretary of Srnte
U»«i!ed Sratet keef<sh\s office. He then er.qui
•-4 Tor Mr. Pickering and A'as to!d he was not with
i.T: At ninf o'c'titk next morning he returned,
repealing his ei-quiry was informed Mr.
wag above i»> the office : upon going up stairs he fourd
the pent'cm an »'Oll r, who mcdr cut a paiTpo»t f.»r
him. which prffportJie holds, finned wi h the
h»i#tl wiitio,' of Timothy Pickcrif.g and bearing the
leal of the Hii ted States annexed to it The mer
chant expuffing (harks lo» the trouble he hid given,
begged to know the change. The reply was "there <
is nopait>c l*r fumchafgtd. it is left to pr&ptfc'Yfewn
m to that effett. The merchant
then laid down five dollars fin fiver) which the other
laying u this is taiher* mUch," pocketed, ro(e, few
the merchant to the door and nude a low tsow.
« c oith Front Street#
From the Avxosa of tbis Morning.
Mr. Bache
In your paper of yesterday you publilhtd
a piece with the fignatnre of South Front
Street, in which I am by name charged
with a fhameful breach of the
laws," a meanness in the aft as despi
cable, as a breach of the law 3 would be
criminal. I am charged with receiving
from a Scotch of this city five
dollars for a passport which should have been
deliveredand with a beggarly address
to the rfierchant's "generosity" to obtain
the money. The following affidavit of
Thomas Wotherfpeon, the merchant allud
ed to, proves that as it refpefts me, the
charge is utterly falfc and as malicious as it
is -fdlfe.
(Signed)
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
Department of State, Philadelphia,
January 25, 1798.
City of Philadelphia, fs.
I Thomas Wotherfpoon, of the Gity of
Philadelphia, merchant, being duly sworn,
depose and fay, That Doftor Reynolds,
who was a fellow lodger with me at Mrs.
Wilson's in South Front Street, some time
laftfummer, speaking of citi?en<l)ip, aflced
me whether I bad obtained a certificate of
mine ; and on my answering in the affirm
ative, he made several further enquiries a
bout the expence of procuring a certificate
and paflport, which I freely communicated
to him, to wit : that I had paid Mr. Burd,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of PentifyWa
nia, two dollars; Clement Biddle, Esq.
for drawing theneceflary forms, two dollars,
Mr. Levy, Gounfellor at law, fivs dollars ;
and forthepafljportat the Secretary ofState's
office, five dollars; that some time last week,
I believe on Friday last, Doftor Reynolds
renewing the fubjedt of my paflport, I told
him that I did 'not know Mr. Pickering,
but I described the person who gave me the
paflpon to be a big, stout man ; that on
the next day, I believe, but certainly not
more than two days thereafter, Dodtor Rev
noldsraentioned tome,thatWm. Todd,Efq.
and himfelf had been speaking about my
being a citizen of the United States, and
that they had some , doubts of my certifi
cate and paflpprt being legal, and Doftor
Reynolds requested a fight of them in or
der to fatisfy Mr. Todd, that in conse
quence I shewed my certificate of naturali
zation, and my paflport to Do£tor Rey
nolds, who perused only the latter, and im
mediately returned it to me, faying he
could fvvear to its being the hand-writing
of Timothy Pickering: that in refpeft to
my application to the secretary of state's
cilice for a paflport, the following are the
faits l -J^uiJ apply on the afternoon preced
ing the date t>f tTtc—pjeiJggj-t a and as the of
fice was then /hut for that day, T was told
by a woman to call the next day at cine
o'clock, when I should find the secretary
state at the office : I accordingly called on
the morning of the 12thofNovember, 1796,
and was shown up flairs&introdncedtoagen r
tleman who was alone;'fromhim I a(ked for
a paflport, at the fame time exhibiting the
certificate of my naturalization from the
clerk of the fupremc court of Pennsylvania :
the paflport was made out for me and deli
vered : I alked the person wliq made it
out what was to pay ? He answered,
"they never make any charge ; it was at
the pleasure of the person receiving the
paflport or words to that effeft : I then
handed him five dollars : he said it was too
much : I answered "by no means he
replied, he was much obliged to me ; and
then I went away: that this morning a
person called upon me about a publication
in Bache's Aurora of this day, and the
paflport therein referred to": I immediately
recognized him to be the fame person who
had given me the paflport, and to whom I
paid the five dollrrs : this person is a lusty
man, and I am since informed is named
Jacob Blackwell, a clerk in the office of
Secretary of State : and lastly, tjiat it was
utterly without my privity or aflent, that
the aforefaid publication was made in Bache's
gazette.
(Signed) TH. WOTHERSPOON.
Sworn to the 24th day of
January 1798, before me,
HILARY" BAKER,
Mayor of the city of Philadelphia.
Arrived at Baltimore, "Jan. 24. ,
Ship Minerva, Semmermann, Leghorn
Mercury, Gerdes, St. °Ube»
Sally, Stiles, Amsterdam
George Wafliingtou, Donaldfrm Rot
terdam
Snow Nancy, Gemmell, Jacquemel
Brig Providence, Jans, Hamburg
Schr. Betsy and Pac!"y, Durkee, St.Jago
Liberty, Aux-Cayes
Adonis, Aklew, Port de Paix
Sloop Frienfhip, Stratton, Bermuda
Hyl'on and Young Hyson Tea.
* few chelb of excjlter.t quality, Fcr cor
ner of Second ami Kti ilrcrt*.
December 26, e ,, t f
[a NKW-TI ] KATRI".
THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 26,
Will be prefentett [for the leior.dtime in Aft;cri»
ca,) a cel»Wa:ed new Cr>inedyt called
The Will ;
OR, A SCHOOL FOK pfrOGHTFilr
f Written bf the author of the Ras;e, Dramaitflj
How to prow Rich, &c &c. and performed
to cfotided houfen all the last ftafon at Crui j"
Lwr Theatre J
Sir Solomon Cynic Mr. Bernard
Mandeville, Warren
Howard, Moreton
Veritas, Wignell
Realise, :. Harwood
. Robert, Fox
Old Copfley, Warfefl
Servants, Meflrs. Huirrr, Laffcrtv, <*<"■
Albina Mandevilie, (with the Eplijjne)
Mrs. Marthall
Mrs Rig;id, L'Eflrange
Cicely Copfley, Bernard'
Deborah, Dot?, or.
At the end of the 4th Ail of the Coimdy, Mr,
Wolfe, by desire, will p&frrrc a. Ccßccrto on
the Clarinet.
so which will be added, a MuGcai- Fafce, called
The Lock and Kev.
On Saturday, the Comic Opera of AbrOai/
And at Home ; or a Tour in the K'ng's fiench
—after which it will be laid aiide, on account
of new pieces in preparation.
Box, one Dollar ; Fit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; anrf Gallery, half a Dollar.
The doors of the Theatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places lor the to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till } o'clock,
and from i'o ti!l 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at XI and P. kicr's hod-tlore,
| No. jo Market street, and at the Office adjoining
the 11 reare. y li'A'l RUS PUBLIC A
Mrs. GRAITAN, -
RESPECTFULLY inforsns the Ladies and
Gfritlerfien of thetirry, tlwrt agreeable'
to the wifli of iVrs. Grattan's fubfoibers, on
Tuesday next (he gives a Sail, with refre.'hment?
inlfead of a concert, at Mr. Richardets. Tick
ets of admittance to non-fubferibers two dpllars.
Jan. 25. At
Surveyor General's Office.
I)eccmber 2, 1797.
OH a release of survey of 4J3 acres, <jß perches
of land, fijuate ih lower Smithfield tnwnfcip
Northampton county, surveyed to VMlliam Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1784, the Depyty Sor
veyorhath itiads the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right. —Cer-
tified for Daniel Broadhcad, I.fij. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Varker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the abcre caveat, or any
o.hers interested or concerned therei«, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary
of the Land Office.
. N. Luf borough.
January»6 §tiF»ivtm
DON JOSEPH IGNATIUS DE VIAR, ~
His Catholic Majesty's Consul-General and Commif
f'oner to ;be United States.
WHEREAS, by the 17th article of the exiftirtg
Treaty of friendlhip, limits and navigation,
between his Catholie Majefiy and the United States of
America, it is stipulated, " That Inch (hips, being la
" den, are to be Drovided not only with pa(TpOrts,but
" aTo with certificates containing the several particti
" lars of the cargo, the place whence the (hip tailed,
" that so U may be known whether any forbidden of
" contraband go sds be on baird the fame, which cer
'• lificates shall be made out by the officers of the place
" whence the (hip. failed, in the accultomed form i
l; ,and if any or>e (hail think fit or deiirible to t xprefs
« in the said certificates tr.e perfms to whom the
'• goods on board belong, he may freely do so ; witV'-
«' out which rcq ifi es, thev may be fentto dnc of the
" ports of the o'her cointrifttng pirty, and .adjudged
" by ihe competent tribunal, according to wtiai is a
" b .ve set forth, that all t u e es of this o
■' mi «... having been welj examined, they shall be
« adjudged to be legal prizes, ivlefs they (hall %ve
" legal latislafcfion of theii property, by teftimopy e»
" quivalent,"—Now therefore, in order to prevent
the improper ca-ture, frizure or detention of any A
mcrict.o vtfl'els trading agreeably to laid treaty, by
, bis C'lholic trajvfly's cruifeis or other armed ve(fe!v,
j 1 do hereby give notice, that (ueh, documents as aie
| required i.i the laid article, (hall be granted to thole
, who may apply at the office of the Confjlate General
or<t any oth r of the Confulales throughout the Uni-
['n. 6t
for-^ile,
A complete file of the Gazette for
the year j 797. —-. ~~
Also, several other files of Gazettes, published
in this city, for the: la ft 9 months of the y<at 1797,
Enquire at no, 94, notth Front (Irett
January 24. t
All Persons
Having any demands the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwiu, are requtfted to
brmg in their arcoants pioperly attelfed, on or
before the firft day of January next enfutng
and those who are indebted to laid eftat« are so
licited to make immediate payment to
3Ait AH IRWIN, Adminiflratrix.
na-u. 29 1797
Princeton—New-Jerfev.
To be Sold,
rHA I neat and convenient Houfc in whicli
th- late Mrs. Ann Witherfpeon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker, lived ; together with all the appur
tenances. The house is two (lories high, of frame
work, and painted. There are are" four.rooms
and an entry on the lower floor, ard five rocms
011 the second floor. The cellars are dry, and the
garret spacious —The back yard is paved wi h
frones. fn it are a well rtf excellent water, an
oven, a smoke house, and house for aihas and
behind it acitriage lloufr; hay loft, granary, and
convenient (fables, with four (tails for fcorfeS, add
four for nea' cattle. The lot is 60 feet wide upoa'
(he Creet and 254 feet d«3:p, fotmwhat more than
one naif of which is made i?to a Icitcheo garden
of an excellent Kil.
For terms, which vrili be made very renfonablc,
apply to t!:= reverend
Samuel S- Smith.
T'' 23W4W
A Ciardener wanted.
A perfpn well acquainted with gardening, and
whd would pccalidnally attend mjrhet, may
bear of a place by app : yii:g at the li mife flone,
on the Bri'lo'l road, or No. JC9, Arch ftrer:,
Philadelphia. A .single man would lse
I""- aawtf
For Sale,
The time of ? young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve year? ejd, has about>>ven years to ferv.-. '
She is yer.y capable of taking ear. <rf a child,
.uc rn lei houfe Enquire at Nu.
9-. Norih jlh flreet.
Jan. j2. *eod»w****"" ' ' "*_* "*lll IMIIHTMI
V ROPOSALS.
f O R
CARRYING THE ruBLIC MAILS
ou'the Poll RoadJ will be re
c jived at the Gsneral I'oft Office until
the j 4th day of Februr.rj next ihclulive.
PETSNSfL VA VIA, vfe.
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcas
tle. Cantwcll'a bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred-
Milfocd, Cloughs, Dagfborough, Trap,
Suowhii), HorntoWn and Accouiac couit hotife to
Northampton court house. three tune- a week
A*lit ito Nwtmbtr 15. I.eave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuenliy, Thuifday and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northaaiptoa court house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at}.} pm . Returning. I.eavt
Northampton court bi u/e every Friday, Monday
and WedwTdayjat 2 a m, and arftve at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday a.cd Friday by 7 i-»
T 11.
Nvuanber 15 to Apr it t. Leave Philadelph'a ev
ery Tuefd.y, Thuifday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wecjaefdayby 7 PM. Relur/ii'f —
Leave Northampton court hosfc every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at
Phi ladelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday ,
by 7 pm. |
VIRGINIA. j
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thrKe times a w»ek.
April r to November 15. Leave Northampton
tourt house every Monday, Wedflefday ar.d Fri
day at % pm, and arnve'at Norfolk in 44hours.
lieturriing>—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- 1
day and Monday a.4 am, and arrive at Northamp
to.'i court orufe in twenty four hours. , j :
November IJ to April t. Leave Northampton ]
court house everyTuefday, Thursday and Saturday .
at 3 a m, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 heur<. Jtc
tur-.i-e—l eave Norfolk every Monday, Wed»ef- j
day a-(Friday by 4 am, and arrive at Northamp- (
toa court house ii,i 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND, ;
3. From Philadelphia by Wilnainjton, S 'w- j j
port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- | .
town crofsroadstoChefterftownthreetiinesa week. ;
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every a
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 PM, andar- I
r.ve at Cheftertown the next days by 8 p a ■ Re- a
turning —Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- j
uefday and Friday by 9p m, and'Srrive at Phila- c
deiphia the next days by 8 p m.
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- t
ry Mo>day and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at j,
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 pm.
Art*riiMf—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and
Friday* yßa m, and arrive at Philadelphia on f
. Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. \
MARYLAND. I
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eaflon, a
Newmarket, Vienna, Salifbury,Snowhill and Prin- a
cess Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Weinef- h
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave ),
Eafton op Thursday by 6a m, arlive, at Snowhill I
011 Friday by I P- »'> and at Frincela Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning—l.eavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by a
10 Am, arrive at Eafton the ne*t day or Monday t
by 6p m 1 Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8a m, and e
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m . n
5. From Harlorif by B.'l-Air to the black horse
Ones a week, . h
Leave Haiford every Tuesday bv ioa'm, and
arriv at Black horse by 6P m Returning—Leave a
Black hnrfe on Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at n
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m. a
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- d
GIS'IA.
6. From Baltimore by JBlackhvfe toYorktown h
Pa. once a week. c
-Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Bla'ckhorfe on Saturday by 10 ah, and arrive r
at Yorlifownliy 8 pm. Returning—Leave York- ]
town every Thursday by 7 \m, and arrive at Bal- <
timore on Friday noon. j
7. From Yofktown by Hanover, Petersburg, ,
Taneyton ar.d Fradcricktown to Lecfbutg once a t
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive (
at Frederiektown on Tu fdayhy jn«, andarrive
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 2p u. Returning—
Leave Leelburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotllown,Getti(burg, '
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, Williar-Jport, Martins- '
burg, \Vincheft«r, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to -
Woodftock once a week. 9
Leave Yorktown every Sinday by noon, arrive' 1
at Martinfburg 011 Tuesday by II am. Leave' 1
Martinfburg on Tusfday noon andarrive at Wood
ftock on Weducfday by 6p m. Returning•—Leave
Woodftock on Thuifday by 6 am, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by It a m, and arrive atYork
town on Sunday by 11 am .
9. From Pittfhurg by Cannonfburg, Washing- ,
ton. Weft Libj-ty and Wheeling to the month of
Fishing creek once a week (contrail for |
only.) - ,
Leave Fittfburg every Enritty at 9 a m, and ar-
R l ive at Filbing cree]t-tf*t Sunday at 9 a m. Jieturn- ,
["2 — I i»iicreek on Wednesday at 8a m, |
■and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Washington by Brownfvillc and Union
to Morgrfmowu oace a week. '
Leave Union evcryFnday at 6 A m, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on '
Sa'turday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6pm. L»ave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Frederiektown, Eliza
bethtown, Greencaftle and Clfcmberlburg to bhip
perfbutg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m, arrive
at Frederiektown on Saturday by 10 am, at Eli- 1
zahethtown in the evening, and at Shippeofburg
onMondsy by 7r m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
harg every Tuesday at 0 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town it 8 p M, at Frederiektown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 in.
MARYLAND
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old
■town to Cumberland once a week.
Leav«Cumheilatid every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Elizabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning —I.eave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m , and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Anrapolis by 5r u. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Valtimoreby j > if.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Ann«,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobaceo, \l
lensfrefh, Newport and Chaptico to Leanardtown"
■ogee a w«k.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
a: Annapolis at 5 p u'. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by naon, arrive 4tPifcataway by 6 p w. & arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 9o'clock. |
fyrvrni—; —LeareLetHiitTdtown tvrry Monday at ;
r m, arrive at Pifcataway on Turftjay by 6 p u
arrive »t Upper on Wednesday by
11 am, and arrive at Ar.papolis by 6 pm. Leave
Annapo'.i* on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at
' Dalti.norc by3P m.
1 j From Aunapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert .«.urt house to St. Leon
ards ooce a week.
Leave Annapolis every Sa'nrday at ja m, and
arriVeat Sn. Leonards »n Monday by 3p m. Re- ,
turning—l.eave St. Leonjrus every Monday at 4
r St, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 a *.
15. From Blader.fburj by Up-cr Marlborough, i
j» N r inghatn, Lower" T.it: orrntgh, Aojnsfct Ben
"" i uidid to „nce :i wee*
1 Leave BUden3..urg every ■atu.-day 9 A ar "
I rive at Ui-rer Marlborovvjh by :ioon and a{ Lower
Mariboroupion Monday by S * «> & at Cnapttco
by 6 th. Retarding—.Uavethaptkoevery fl-usl
day at 6a M, and arrive at Biadettfrurgon Sat" - |
day ii i it.
ll if. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktowj) once A^veek.
L«ave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 r m
Leave Faedcrickto wn every liiiirfday by 5/> M >
" and arrive at Georgetown by 6 P m.
VIRGINIA.
' i?. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-3 Ibt coart boiufe, Stayntou, Lexington andfiiieaf-1
tfc to Big Lick once a week.
- t Leave Woodftock every-Thurfday by 6a M, ar-
rife at Stauuton on Friday at Ip w« L'fcve Staun
» ron every Friday at z PM, arrive ai Big Lick on
: Sunday by II a m. Returning —Leave Big Lick
' on Sunday by IP m, arrive at Staunton every Fuef
■ div b/ ii am. leave Stauiitom by 12 o'clock
1 )noonj and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by
jrtf.
19. From Big Lick by Montgomery court house
1 and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
Leave Big Lick every Sundav at I m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 2 p m, »nd at
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning—
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 p m, and ar-
I rive at Big Li.k onSirtid»y by 11 a m.
TENN£SS££.
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jo'nefborough
Gteenville,Moffat's store andJefferfon court houie
to Knoivilie once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffit;s lt'-U*c on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Mofflts by 9 a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun
day by 10 a u. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
i ry Sunday byirm, arrive at Meffatson Monday
by 3p m. Leavo Moffats on Monday at 4 r 11,
arfii airive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 V M.
VIRGINIA
-21. From Wincheftcr by Romney to Moorfields
once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Moorfield«n Friday by 6 PM. Returri
-1 ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
I arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM,
22. From Alexandria by Ceqterville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at Jam,
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 am.
23. From Ffederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucester court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Aeave Frederickibupg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tapfahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
YorktowD on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at Frederickflcurg onTuefday by 5 P M.
24. From Tappahaniiocfc by Richmond court
house, Wedmoreland court house, Kinfale, F"jirn
ham church and Northumberland couTt house to
Lancaftejccourt hoiffeq'nfc a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancalter court house on Saturday by 11
am. Returning—LeaveLancafter court tioufe ev
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive at Tappahan
no*k on Monday by 11 a m.
25. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house &Orangec. h. to ChariotufviUeonce a we'ek.
Leave'Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
afld arrive at Charlottefyille on Thursday by ■ 1 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at oil Tues
day by 6 a m.
26. From Richmond by GooehlancV court
; house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
oriee a week. *
Leave Richmond evefy Tuesday at 1 p M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thiirfcfay by ir A 1 M.
Leave Charlo'tcfvills bv noon and arrive at
Staunton ap Friday hy II AM. Returning—
LeavfStayntcm q» Saturday by 6 A-M, arrive at
CharlottefviHe by 7 PM, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
27. Fram Stanmon by Bath court-house and
Sweet springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive 4t Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6p M. Returning—Leave Greenbrier eourt
houfeevery Monday by 9 AM, and arrive it
Staunton on Thurfilay by 8 P m.
28. From Charl«ttefvii'e by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Araherft court house,
Cabelliburg, and Maddifonto Lynchburg
,week - _ ..y
Leave Tfiwrfday at 1 p
M. and on Saturday at 6
p m. , .Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
TueWay by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefvillt
Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
lctts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often as they fiull run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, a.id ar
rive at Richmond on'Tuefday by 5 P M.
30. From Richmond by Hopkin»'», Powha
tan coort house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednefilay at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynfchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by j P M, arrive at .Prince
liJwsrd on Saturday by 7 p w, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 p M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincjf
tle once a week. . .
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincaftlf cn Saturday by 6 r m.
Riturning—Leave Fincaltle on Monday at $ a
m, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noonr
31. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville onee in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 p m.
33' From Princ.* Edward court house by
Charlotte court house- to Halifax court house
once a week.
Ltuve Prince Edwar-I court houfeerery Thurs
day at 6 AM, and arrive at Halifax court house
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by t P M, and ar
rive at P/iijce Edward court house on Satardav
by 6 P Nr. '
VIRGINIA and NOR TH-CARO LIN A.
.34. From Halifax court-hoofe by Halitax old town,
I Carten, M.irtiuvillr, Patrick couH-houfe, Upper Sau
-1 «i Gfrmantown and Bethania to Salem once in two
I weeLs. !
Leave Hali'ax court-house every other Fri4sy at
s, P M, and airive at Salem the next Mor.dav.by 6,
P M. Return'ng—LeaveSaiem every othtr Tuesday
at 6, A M, and airive at Halifax court-house on Fri
da< by 10, A M.
35. Fiom Harris's by Hicket'tford to Halita* twice
a week.
Leave Harris*! every Wcrtnefdaf and Saturday by
5, A M. aniauiveat Halilax by 6, P M. Relum
ing—lore Ka'.itax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, >
A M, and arrive at farm's by 7, P. M.
• VIRGINIA.
36. From Smi.hfield by Somhsmpton ccurt-Koufe
to Hickes'i ford onte a »(ck.
Leave Hicki'ifoH ~«nr • » P M
an<i arrive at Siflitptic'ji . orx P M.
Rciuroinjr-^f.esvjS^:'^ 2 every ot.icr Sunday v >y
5, 4 M,'andarrive *« Htcks'i iord on MSaday by
*, PM. i'
37.
Mcck'fnUergUhd Lo'ier.burg aod Ed
muiu's (tore to GoUifon'# '>ncca week.
LcaVr* Qoldfon'* every Weincfday at 10, A M, and
return she next Saturday by «, P M, waiting at each
Port-Office 2 bour* after delivery of the mai .
rißOlSJjrtf NORTH-CAROLINA.
38. From Suffolfcby £dcn:on, Plymouth and V/a
(hingtpn to Neytbern, once a week L<«ve Suffolk
every Monday & noon, arrive at £denlo'r> ba Tues
day as 1, PM, at Plymouth , v on Wednesday by 6,
A M, at Wa(hiruston by 6, P M, *nd at >7ewfe,ernop
Thursday by 5, P M- Ret Urnin^— Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6 X A M, arrive at by
£■ pM. Arrive « Plymrruthfon Saturday by 4
P M, tCEdi-nton on Suftdavbyg, A M, aud at Suf
folk 00 Monday by 9, :%A M.
t NQJtrH-q*&OLIX.4.
39 From Edeatooby peitford, Njxoatoa, Eliza
beth ciiy w and J&aefbujg to fpduq-town, once a
week. . 1
Leave £denmn every Wednesday by 1, P M, and
arrive jit IniJiao-town on f by 6> P M» Re??
turning—Lea?* Indiafitown every Tue&iiy by 5, A M,
and arrive on Wedm fday at H, A M.
40. Prom Hafifjk by Northampton
Princeton" Murfreelboroogh, Wintou and Windsor
to Edentou. once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Fdenton on Weditcfday by 3, P M, leave Eden
tori oa Wednesday bv 6, P M, and ariWe at Halifax
on Saturday by 11, A M
41. From Halifax'byScotland, liogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at I®, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A ML Returning—
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, P M, aad ar
rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42* From Halifax by Tarboro' and Greeoville to
Walhingtononee a week.
Ledve Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and ar
rive at Walhington on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M*
43. From Halifax by Wanenton, Willtamfborough,
Oxford, Hi 11 (borough, Martinville, Sslem, Lexing
ton, Sali(b«ry and Statefville to Charlotte and trom
Charlotte by Cabarras cpurt-houfe to Salisbury, and
from tfcence by th€ fame.joutc to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9 1 A M, arrive at
Warremon 7, BM, arrive at HiVlfborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at SalifbutV OQ Saturday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on ftfootlay by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at\o, A M, arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by 10, A M, arrive at Salem *on Wed
nesday at 9, A M, as Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warrentonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at
Halifax on Monday at 6, A M
-44. From Hillfl>orough by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Lealburg, Caiwell court-house and Roc
kingham couft-boufe to Gecmantowa once in two
weeks.
Leave Hi'.jfborough every other Thursday at 6, A 2,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Beihania, Hutttfville, R&ch
ford, Wilkes, Morgantan and Rutherlordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. oncetntwa weeks.
Leave Salem cvei y other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg oo ; Wednesday at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg every other uiurlday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at £ p m.
46. Ffom Louilburg by Nafti court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Tarborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifbiftg Sy 6p m. Returning—Leave Louif
birrg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo- j
rough by 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by Smith field, Waynefborougll,
and Kinglloo to NewbeTn,' orrcs in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbem the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning— Leave N.ewbern every other Friday by 2
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfboroug|i,
ana from Hil\(]?onough by Chapel hill
court-house to Raleigh, once'a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and,ar
rive at Hillft>orqugf\ by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough Wednefday by 8 a M,,and arrive
a£ Raleigh t>n Thursday by 10 a m.
49. Frpm Fayetteville by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming®
t®n b/ S. Wafiiington, Sare&o and Sampson court
hovie to Fayetteville, once a^eek.
Leave Fayetteville every tnelday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington ori at 10 a.m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 a
and arrive at Fayettoville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetleville by-Alfordton and Randolph
court-hojjfieto'Sali(bury, andfroa»6tt!ifbury by Mont
court-houfe, Anfon court-house and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 A m, Leave Sa
lilbury every Tuesday no«n and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newborn every Friday at io a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
mington every
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH-CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancafier court-house, ChaV
lotfce and Lincolnton to StatefviHe, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive** Statefville on Thuffday 6pm .Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 t m, aod arrive «t Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnlborough, Cheftcr
c»urt-houfe, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week*l waiting
one hour at each poft-ofHce 011 the rcute*
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
S©artar»burg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive »t
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
5 From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 A m. and ar
rive at Charlelton on Thar/day at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA
55. From F.dgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
' Abbeville court-house, Peqdleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin E.berton and Peters
burg to and from Waihiftf/ton by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgeficid court-houte,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Peudleion c(surt-houfe on Sunaay by 9 am
arrive at couit-houfe by 7 p m, at Petersburg
on Tut fday ,i>y iq a m, and at Waftnngton by 5 ?
v. Leavp WalhingtOH every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Caonb: idge op 1
field court-house by 7 PM. •
56 From Augusta by Wafhipgton, Green(burg and
Lexingtofn to Gedigetown, once a week.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
on Tuesday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thursday by 7 p m. Returning
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, aod arrive
at Aug"fta b* noon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Beaufort every Thursday at 2 r m, and arrive
a; Gaiciens Comer by 8 pm. Returning—Leave Gar*
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, atjd arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. u.
Ktic I. The Pojl Master General may alter the timeJ
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of the contrails y be firevioxjty jlifculating an adequate com -
fen fat ion for any extra txponfe thai may be occaftuned there
by . "■
Note 2. Half an hour fball be alUtved for opening
and clojing the Mail at all -jfjicci where no particular time
is fp- cijiai.
• No er. For every hour's delay {unavoidable acciaents
excepted/in an king after the times prescribed in any can
tra3, ihe.ContrMvr fkall forjeil one dollar, and if ike de
lay continuemtfil d parture nf a\y dependmg Mail,
whereby the Mails dejlined Jvr such depending Muil, fafe
a trtfa an atd'dqzal forfeiture of five dollar 1 Jhall be
tikurred» * '
Note 4. Nerufpapers as tvell as Letters ewe to be sent
in the s&aili ; and if any ferfun making proposals deftres
to carry netuf inpers other than those conveyed in the mail y
fir his own ent itum<*t y be nrufl Jlate in bis Jtropofals for
iv'njt fumbe trill carry it •tvhb that emolument and for
iv'jiit Jim tvilhont tb.lt emolument.
' AW 5- Sh'-jIJ -, y person making proposals deftre an
alteration of the tiytcs of .xrrival qttd deparLuu above fpe
cifedy he tnufl Hate in his proposals the alterations detired,
an i the difference they insil make iit the terms of hi* con
trail.
■'! Mote 6. Persons making proposals are dejired to fate
their prices w gross by the year, and not by the vtilf,
Thoft ivbo cvntraS tuili thfir pay- fi.irterly, in
the months of °fa;:uary, July ahd Oflobcr 9 in
drafts on the post offices on the route and in bank notes.
Note 7. The contrails are to be in operation on the frft
day of April next, and continue for four years, until
the 3 \Ji day of March inclufive y in the year 18oz.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Po/l-Mafler General.
Gcnbral Post Ovttcr., ")
Philadelphia, December 18, I 797; $
tuth&st 14th F
NOTI C E.
ALL persons who have any demands against
th» eflate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
cealed, are requefttd to exhibtt their accounts,
properly attellcd ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, > ~ ... ,
No. 2J , St,. Third-street. 5 "
January 4. dtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
nership between them and Joseph' B. Barry, bas
betfii dissolved by mutual confeiit. Cavar.agfh
and Hearn ha*e just received a quantity of jit.
Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, whiclv they
intend to fell on very reasonable terross forcaft.
Orders from the country most pun&cally exe
cuted. Vtneersof all kinds cut asufual.
Jan. i j, 2aw+w
Alujical Injlrnment Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOrBRS OP HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
now ready for sale, a fd\v of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes* with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and Trench harp
ftop,wh!ch for (eufibiliry of touch, brilliancy of ;
tone, simplicity and durability of comfxutfion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a fmglc tci
a[ will convince the unprejudiced jadge—As thty
are manufa&ured under his immediate
of the very best seasoned materials, he oari fell 011
! reasonable terms for Casu. Inftrtiments repaired,
; tuned, &c.
J N. B. Second haniil Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for nev.'.
ndvemher 18. JIW2HIO.
ALL persons indebted to the cftate of Pettr
Giil, hti of the D'iflrhfl of Southwark, de
eeafed, are requested to make imrjiedfate pay
i ment to either of the Subftri&ers; End those
wh6 liave any demands against fitid estate. are
rrqpcSta Lj uiilitlf accounts duly tttelf-T
ed to.
JOHN MURPHY,
PETER SCKAVENDYJSE, f , ' cu "
THOMAS FARRELL, J tola -
Philad. lan. 16. 1708. *4rw4«'
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut flreet-^
REPORT of the Committee of the House 0?
Representatives Of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in purTuance of a resolution of
the Houfaof Representatives, stuthorizmg the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congrefi, and
inftru>3ing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifoover the whole nature .and Cxtuur
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" (lands impeache.l, and who are the parties and
" aflbciates thenin."
Printed by order as the House ofßeptsfctototives.
December 20. §
Prison Manufactory, i
FOR SALE,
At the Prison Of the City and Cotfnty of Philade!-
-■ _
Cut Nails of altfizEß, from Jdy to 2odjT
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—.Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hen. - ftoncs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, flabs,'facia, window heads, filli, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and WeaviDg done at said Prison at
a mode:ate price.
Orders ditlance, directed to Daniel Tho- |
mas, agent for the prison, will.be attended to.
December 26. • mth6m
DANCING SCHOOL"
*
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents hU
mofi refpe.-lful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, aad re*-
turns his mQft grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful eneouragemtut he has cxp'ttieiiced for
tnefe twenty-five years past, .takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room y
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walnut-streets. To begin at loin morning
for youog ladies, and 6 in the evening for yohng
gentlemen.
p cc - 8. lawtf.
COLUMBIA HOXixK ~
Boarding School for yoting Ladies.
A/TRS. GROOM3RIDGE with much pleaf
i'J- ureand reipeiS, returns her sincere ac
knowlcdgemcot for the libera] encouragement
lhe hasreceived during fo'ir years refiderice.in
Philadelphia; and assures her friends and the
pnblie, jo far from intending t J decline her
school, she has made a fupenor arrangcm&nt io*
the mere convenigtt accommodation of her
fcholari.—Every branch of nfeful and polite
edncatien is particularly attended to by Mr-.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpedliveprofeflioijs. «-
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. , fimfrf
The Gtuation i* perfefily hrtitky ; and made
more agreeable by an extenCve pat dsn asdlot
of ground the hou'e. v
City Cooamiffioner's Office,
January, nth, » 7 n,
FOR THE INFORMATION BF T>»* CITIZENS
following arrang-eratnt is made by th-
X said Commiffiotters, for clcauline > :h«
Greets, &c. b Be
DittriA No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
ilreet to the south fide of Mulberiy-fti-tr • to
be under the fuperiotendme of Nicholas H.cki.
i. From the fsuth fide of Mulberry street, to
the south fide of Chefaut street to be Ucder th
fi'perii; dance of W illUm Moulder.
'3- From the south fide of Cheftiut street ta
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
_ 4 ' '' ro ? l north fide of Spruce street, to the
fouth'fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu.
pcrmtehdanee of Hugh Roberts. mwfini
The Subfcrilier,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that hi s
books, which have been kept open for their infec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Countiag-houf* in Chefiiut Street for
their further investigation and fcrut-'ny.
JAMES
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(11798.
JuJi received a Frejh SupplyT
English Grammar,
Tht second edition 9 <witb improvements,
ADAPTED to the different clatfes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervatioHs for afliftiqg the more advanced ftudects
to wiite with perfpicuitv aad accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a. publication of much merit, and*fuily
anfweTs the profeflions in the Title. Theappen
dix contains some of'the heft rules for writing e-
I legantly, and with propriety, that we rocolle&.to
have Ken."
«c M »nthly Jptly 1795.
niR Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
t° commendatory notice, its materials have been
Ca l e « l lir nd , i,d 'f, loUfl y MeAti • '» arrangement
16 A'trfrit and well adapted to the purpose of in
ftruetion and its expression is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, Secc"
See the charter at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796.
English Exercises, \
Adapted to the Grtimmar lacefy published by
Lindley Murray, confining of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftancesof fatfe orthography
violation* of the rules of fyn.ax, defe&s in punc
tuation, and violations of the uile, refpcclino
perfpicuity and accuracy, designed f.r the henefit
of private as well as for theufe of fchoolt.
" Wg have been much pteafed with the petufal
of these Exercifa. They occapy with diftingnifc
ed excellence a *otl important plac. in the feknee
of the English langnege; and as foch, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to ail those who are desirous of
attaining corrt&nefs and preoifion in their xuuivc
' tongue."
; Monthly Re-vicw, Jnly J797.
j The ahovd Bo<4s are for fate at Joseph & Jamsj
Crukshankst book flor«, No. 87, Market flrect.
January
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY franrffre fuWcriber, an the 24th
of December, 1797, a Negro Man, about 22
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about 5 feet
7 or 8 inches high, milling well proportioned ; he
has a very coarse voice, his fore ttcth Hand very
far apart; frere were one or two with him—f
eaimot rightly deferibe the deaths he took With
him, for he took two Or three foits ; he had on%.
when he went away, a pair of keffcy fcrtnvfers, a
half worn drai coloured c.at, aihajf worn wool
hat ; he took with him four v'cry good lhirt*—]
i...a hr t»» wade-for Philadelphia or the Jerfeyi.
Whosoever takes ip "fai(f negro and f cures him, (b
that the owner may get lvim again, {hall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living inStill Poni, Kent county, Marylapd.
January a. *6t»aw
Wanted, to Hire,
A I arge and convenient HOUSE, in or bear
the centre of th» city—for which a generous
rent'will begiv*n; to be taken fop a year, of on
more for a longer term. Inquire of th* Printer.
OA. t7- eotf
Valuable Books,
Just veaeived by the Fai* AmlHm?an from
London, and now opening and Celling by
J. Orm rod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added, to O's usual flock, form an
extesfive and elegant colle&ion <rf ancient and
modern literature, 3ud comprise books in sun
dry languages and on various fubjed\s.
This Day is Published,
By J. Or «sod, (Price 75 cents, handfomeljr
btmnd and lettered, and emhellifhed w4th an
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glafa f6r the Mind,
. v - o~K ; *
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valmble cdltevftion of interfiling and
mifcellaneoU9 incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds tbe> happy eft'eifls of yauthfuf in
nocence and filial afftdlion—ln prbfe and veefs.
Designed to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
In the Pfefsj ants wiU be speedily publilhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Fethatc Education.
Subfcriprions for this incomparable work will
be thanleftiHy received by the printer. The book
U-ill contain about three hundred pagel, will he
printed with a new type on firie paper, afid
Fivered to fubferibers neatly bound,-lettered and
embellifiied with an elegjnt frontifpiece, fir one
dollar.
January 3. ,tt.
This Day Published,
Andto be fold by WILMAIM VOUNG, eornorof
Second and Chcfuut ftrcvti,
Price'3-B<W of a Dollar y
Obfcrvaticns on certain Decumentj
Contained in No ( V and V! *f
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculatiov bjairfft
Lite SECmr.ai tlie Tri.asurv, i. FULLY '
refuted.
tr RIT TM y Br himself.
Th s publication presents a conufe fUtement
of the bafc means by the Jacobins of the.
United States ta asperse the chara(9ers of thofs
p -rfons who arcconfidtrcdas hoflile to their difcr
gatiizinf(. schemes. It alfu contains the cor-,
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and W.etlrs.
Mtwroe, Muhlenbnrgh ind Venab'e, on thefub
jeQof the documents a'orefaid, and jfftries of In
ters from James Reynolds and his wife toMr.l*
milton, (jro»uig beyiyud tilt poffihility of a doubf,
th*t the .ei-nncition .between him mid Rcpiwds
was the rtfclt.ef a daring tonijiiraey on the catt
of the latter and his ajfociates to exturt j«cr ly.
A difcouKt of an ?rom the rc"ri! -ri.i
will b( niL.de in favor yt wholefa c VMchni. r' Ids
CASH. Ordc.; to be ta Mr Vor\'<;.
is-