tit tl tiie iltiiKi **» Philadelphia* Jpaily Advertiser.
!r' '
By John Fenno, N 0 * 119 Chef nut Street
- - 1 - ' • v - '' - : « 1 a 1 T . —— *+ 1 A 7 " "
Number 1771.J
For Sale, or Charter.
THf SHI* '
LIBERTI, Ej
LAYINOat VirwStreet Wharf— |
burthjp per rugger two hundred
eighty -twio ton>. This vessel Se
hat been abouf f months off] the flocks, and
j«tely rertrnoi from » yoy»ge to Hoilfind. She is (j,
a prime fkilcr,ca<; be armed with less disadvantage a „
t» her (lowage than any vessel in thisport and may
be fja at a moderate eipeace: Apply to or
JOtiX SKTRIN, vI
Landenberger's Wharf. ta
Way s dlw fii
JUST ARRIVED, I
lathe brigOayofn.capt Bingham, from St. Martins w
A quantity of SALT, fi<
of an exccellent quality n;
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty Calks Vinegir
A V°> fOR SALE > e.
Enquire of J
Jehu HclUngfworth & Co.
No. aa, Little Water ftract, South. y
aprii ao. -
forSale,at the Stores of the Sub- °
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, d
jo; calks of nail? assorted ii
jo bales ef fail canvafi, from No. I to 8 tl
? ? calks yeilow ochre ti
1 ; tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ? Madeira Wines
India market J
Trneriffe do. in hoglheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhdi.
Empty ChrcfbottUs
6 cafe? of Ginghams, DimitieJ r Muflinetj flee.
assorted for the Weft-India market .
4, 10, and? inch to coils of cordage r
- Writing Gates, ink stands a.ld preffe*
to pnrcheons Jamaica rum r
I bale seaming twine t
■j6o bundles Ihcathiug paper f
J—THE BRIG C
AMAZON,; ;
For Sale, or Charter. a
Nicklin & Griffith. \
april 7 tuth&f.tf j
~ FOITSALE. '
Sugar .
aoo Hides f
Will be landed to-morrow, at WilKngraßd Fran- £
cis's wharf,from on boardthebrig A^ive,Will- £
iam Williams, mailer. c
faidßrigforfale, i
And may take in immedi- 1
„Ji!£. ■"•.ST-Sw ately after diftharged.
Apply to }
Jehu HoUingfworth & Co.
march. 30. I
For Hamburgh,
THE SMTP ' "t
DoMINICK. "I'ERRY,
J°lm Fleming, Majler,
Having great part of fee r cargo en
oagad.—For freight apply to
Jejfe ss* Robert Wain.
February a 6 ;—s—
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the fnmmer fmfon or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a hiiih, healthy situation, above the eight mile
stone, on the Germantown road (occupiedonly by
a newly married couple}— with lUbling and con
veniehce for keeping a carnage. For father par
ticulars, enquire ol Caspar W. Ha.nw, .n Ger
mantown, or the fubfenber, on the pretmfes.
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN.
aawiw
may I
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia for web Pl*" °f a Banking House,
accompanied with feSions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Direftors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or too feet
in depth, and to be fopUcnedasto adm.tof.ts
being made fire protff. It is requested that the
plan! may be fe.« to the Calh.er ol the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next. , Je
april I9> J
For Sale,
HTBHIISCIHU- NO- IO.CHtSSUi STREET,
x i Cases of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be Told on reasonable terms on a ftor
. credit.
Robert Henaerfon.
April x mw&S4W
* VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-flreet.
HAVE FOR SALS,
coHogfheads Virginia Tobacco, of Ftetlerickf
burg and Falmouth Infpeiflions.
40 Hoelbeads ditto of Richmond i n rp«<flion.
3 may 8. 1
Horses on Sale.
Several valuable Horses to be Sold,
Which are perfefllv well broke for either La
dies or Gentlemen ; 'trills of therh are allowed;
'\DDIV vtr
at his Riding School Marlcef-ftreet, which is
open every day for the piirpofe of teaching the
a,t ps Borfemanihip, acd the breaking and train
ing of Horses. *,t
may 4' 1
fresh teas.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS-bis Friends and the Pub'.ic, th:the
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
AthWCirCulitinpLihrary, N0.75 North Third
street, where be wHI be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, )
\OUNO HYSON* C TEAS,
HYSON-SKIN', C
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate term^.
Cboccljte and Loaf
ayril 13- U
PHILADELPHIA- TUESDAY EVENING, MAT 15, 1798. -
HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia * \ft May % 1795.
Extr»<st of an a& to alter and amend the Health
Law* of this Commonwealth, puffed 41b April
1798. Ba
<; a. A NDbe 11 fad n ena&ed by the au- cai
thority aforefald, That every house It
keeper within the city *f Philadelphia, tjie town- _
(hips of the Northern Liberties and Kioyafrn-nfing,
and diftrid of Southwark, within-a mile of the li- *
mitsx>f the city, taking in boarders arriviag by sea r-i
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha- J
vingany boarclsr in hiior her family, who Ihall be
taken Tick o. any disease whitfoever, between the j n ,
firft day of May and the firft day of November in" ]
any year, within twenty days next after such boar- ,
der lhall come to lodge in his or her house, shall J
within 24 hours next after the knowledge of such !
ficknefj. make report at (he Health Office of the '
name «f such lick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken lick,
and of the name and place of abode of such house
keeper; whereupon the Physician of the Health- E
Office (hall forth with visit the patient, and report ! al
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif- fit
eafc, that measures may be taken to prevent the i Q
Spreading of the infe&iofi ; and if any housekeeper tu
thall negle& to give information in the manner and ar
within the time aforefaid, and shall be thereof con
vi&ed, in any court of cr.minal jurisdi&ion within} f c
this Commonwealth. upon indiftment by vcrdiA
or confeflion, he or fl:e Iftall forfeit and pay a fine 1
to the use of the said hofpital,not less than twenty |
dollars, nor more oiu hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion of the court, according to
the circumstances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each pa-ticular cafc. •
By order of the Board of Health,
WM ALLEN, Health Officer,
iaw3m of the Port ot Philadelphia.
1 mil ■ 1 i ■ 1 in 1 1 ' ' '
Treasury Department,
March is, 1798. I
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
7 Ha Tpropolah will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi- 1
ration of the i?th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of ill rations which may be required ' l
for the use of the United States, fromthc firii day of w
O(Sober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September Cl
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within n
the diftridt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;at Le Beuf; at r ,
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Lcramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi- ®
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabalh; at Maflac; at any
place or places on the east fide of the River Missis- *
fippi above the mputhof the River Ohio, and up
on the Illii.ois River ; at any place or places on the 1
east fide of the Mifiiffippi River belew the mouth '
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the a
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at 5
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other 11
Pofls in the State of Tennessee; at any place or
places on the east fide of the River Miflinippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of J'ennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
u supplies lliall be required for any po'fts or c
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies I
shall be furnilhedat price>|proß^tioflfiito. those to c
, £
The rations to be supplied to consist of th-foU «
lowing article®, viz.
One pound of bread or fi&nr 1
One pound ; of beef or twelve ounces of pork c
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-"^
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hundn;d
of vinegar, two pounds oi loap,( rat j onß
one pound of candles J
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
! as that there fball at all times during the said term,
\ be fufficient for the conf'-'mption of the troops at
| Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other pods, for the term of ar least three 1
months is advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame lliall be required. Itistabeun
derftood, that the contra<slor is to be at the ex- ,
pence and rifle of ifiuing the fuppliesto the troops
at each poll, and that all lolfes faftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dciVroyed, on
the depofitiofcs of two or more persons of credita
s ble chara&ers, andthe certifica r 6 of a commifiion
t cd officer, ascertaining the circuraftances of the
s loss and the amount of the articles for whieh com
e penfation (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnHbed under thepropofed - contrail, shall be
- ilTued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contrail now in fc-rce have
been consumed >' -•
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
,r march 17. lawmjy
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
r T"'HE Subscribers ComniifTioners appointed by
JL an Ail of Aflembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, " An adl to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
r making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
i»f Chefnut Hill, to the twelve mil® stone on
the leading Road, and thenca to Reading in the
. ' county of Beiks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law direfU, and that we
will proceed to receive fubfcriptioii* for the com
-} pany's flock on the 28th, 19th, and ;,oth days
* of May next, at tbf City Hall, in the city of
a ," Philadelphii.at the Tavern of William Buchois.
' ' in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
r ls Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
e the coitnty of Montgomery, on the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two 0'
clock,P. M. an eacU day, when and wherecer
- tain of the Coramiffloners Witt attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly.
April Mtt>i 1798-
BENJAMIN CHEW", jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
he SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
rfl ISAAC FRANKS,
, ir JOS HEISTER,
J. BOVVER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,juu.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fiftsen'Dnllars to be paid on each
lhare at the time of fjbfcribine.
April 17 —eodtj^M
A Morning School,
From fix to eight o'alock, is opened at
The New Scboo! Roqrfi,
Back of N«. 147, in Chefnut Strc«t, forthetdu-
cation of Boys and Young Men in Englilh and 0
French Languages, .Writins, Accounts, &c.
may 14 iw J H'aTF.RMAN. g
iVIILITAHY ACADRM!. s!
r^|~^ HE Public are mofl refpeilfully informed, si'
X that a Military Academy is opc-jiedin the (o
Northern Liberties in the house fotmerly belong- J
ing to John Meiers, esq. between the Geronan-
Tuwn and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6cth British regiment of Foot and
assistant Engineer ts the Army ailing in the
Weft-Indies.' p
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
and made completely acquainted with a j
all the duties of ofiiceis, non-commifiioned of- te
ficers and prrvare soldiers in camp, garrison and te
Quarters; thefoimsof regimental and field re- li
turns, detachments, tollers &c. &c alfi the bi
art of drawing plans, feiftions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, guspiery and '
fortificatioa. —A fubfcriptioti lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and vl
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be ; r
1 seen. The situation is extremely wett adapted d
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are o
set apart for the purpol'e.
N. B. Gentlemen fram the Country boarded 'I
in. the house if required.
may 10. diw2awim '■
Military Colours. I
At C, GULL AG Eft's J
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms, P
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to t
himfeli) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beaucy of
colouring, neatnafs and maftcrly execution, has I
not been squalled by George Rutter and Co. a
FLAGS and DRUMS *
Furnifhcd with all poflible dispatch, on the mod
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck- '
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in (lile (net that
lbperb (lile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.) e
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to anaa- t
tift mailer of hi? profefiion. c
Mr. Gullagek, from a numberof year's eipe- (
nencg in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf ,
that profeflional talents, pun<sluality, and reason- t
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of t
those gentlemen who vrillpleafe tocill at his'faint- j
ing Rooms, §6w may 5.,
> 11 1 I
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a fup()ly of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maflerly manner, will no .
iwt«t trad felf
flattering advertisements, buteiaiji'ne the work
executed by both parties.——One view will Cat if- ;
fy them where the fuperiorltylies,—-favc thefpoil
ing of good silks by G Rutter's pencil—abd
discover the re(juiftte« for the contracting talents
of Henry Fraiiey, at Germantown may io.
Military Colours,
: PAINTED ON SlLK—by
George Rutter Co.
' Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
. TN a flile which will .n'diire the hardships of the
A weather without injury, and which for nestnefs
, and exa<ftitude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
. this city.
- FLAGS AND DRUMS
Furnilhed with dispatch, en the molt moderate
" terras.
* Portraits, OrnainentalFaintings, Signs,
. fire buckets, &c. atcbmplifhdd in that superb (lile
t of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter pledge?
I himfeli from 20 years experience iu this city will
. meet the entire approbation of his friends ani the
. public.
e In the Military Line,
A variety of fbecimen's may be fecn at their
Painting Room, NorrWsCourt, back of the Naw
9 Library.
y may 3 . c!6w
NOTICE.
e TTAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
JLjL Gullagrr, in terms derogatory of our pro
feflional abilities, we have to reqtiefl the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artiflfc ; but to
decide upon the merits of each*by a comparison o!
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
_ universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ef eflablifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engroffwg that fcufmefs which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
iy them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
h govern, we flatter ourselves that the workexecut-
j s ed by us will convince them of our great I'uperio
)r rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
fity of judging for themselves.
II N. B. In future no attentien will be paid to th;
" felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
I s Any person wi(hing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Gio. Rotter and
" e Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Prailey, GermaE
n" town. §6w may 8.
Y s
"/ Robert Field,
MINIATUkE PAINTER,
he Has removed to No. 106, Walnut llreet, be
in tween Fourth and Fifth llreeti.
's, mav a. d-w
New Tea Warehousl.
ve No. 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POST-OrriCE.
THE Subscriber rcfpccilully acqijintsherfricHds
and the public, that Ihe has opened a Store'for
the Tale of all kinds of teas, imported 111 the late
arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (as uiider) and
which ftie is determined to fell on reasonable terms.
It will be hcrconftant endeavour to give fatisfa&ion
to those who please to favor her with their cuilom.
Country (lores wilt fisd it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (he can- at a moment's ' notice* aflfort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit 011 approved notes.
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
ch Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
apfll 13 »3cth.6w
aJr#B tf
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE Subscribers being the fit neffons firft named
in the Letters Patent, idued by the Governor
oT thi'Comm-wiwtal h, by virtue of the A & of Gin
eral AffemHy sf the i Sth ult, for ipcorpora ing the G
Comp«ny-7-hcrebv n«tic? agreeable-40 the 3d e:
fcA'onoflhe Paid l»w, that they have ippoimed, and 5
heieby requcft a meeting of the fubferjbirs at the ir
S:au HouU ih the City ot Philadelphia, on thejhirty
firft day of this inllant May, at ten O'clock in the Cl
forenoon; for the purposes mentioned in the fji-? 3d
feQion, which i» hereafter publifbed for the inform- w
atioa ol the Stockholders.
Richard Peters,
'John Prrott, t |
Matthew M'Connell, a ,
iVilliam Sheaff., p
George Rickbam, J
Wil'iam Nichols. tt
Philadelphia, ill Mav, '798, g
Section 3. And be it farther ty the mtharih
afortjtid, That the fix Perfonjfirll named in lie Let- r(
te'S Patent, (ball as soon as conveniently may be as- :
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pjb- q
licJNews Papeis in Philadelphia, o.ie whereof (hill j .
be in the German Language of a time and place by J
them to be appointed, not left than thiity days Itom I
the time «tl iuuing the firft notice, at which time and
place the said fubxribers (hall proceed to organize the
said Corporation and (ball cho->fe by a majority of 2
voles of the said fubferibets by ballot, to be deliveied p
in Person or by Proxy, duly jucjiorized—oric Preb- p
dent, twelve Dircflors, one Treafu er, and such other
officers as they IhaM think nccclfary tocond & the bu
finefso'the said ComD!?liv for one yrar, and until o
'ber officers shall bcchoftn, and may m'tc such bie- -
laws, rules, orders and regulations, not inconfiilc-t
with the laws of this Commmwe Ith, as shall be ne- ri
cclflry tor the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany* Provided always, that no p r!on shall have
more than fifty votes at any eleflion »r in determining
a.,y qurftion arifit;g at such mceliogs whatever num
ber b« or ftr be enttlcd to, and tfitt each
person fball beeniitlea to one vote for (bare
by him or her lie.ld -mder th fatd number. _ _
A Perion
Properly qualified, by applying at the Office of
this Gazette, may meet with a Situation as a
School Mailer,
In a Country-Town, within a day's ride of Phil- ;
adelphia,
may 11 eo3t
TO BE LET,
And Pojejfion given Immediately.
THAT well known stand called, Small's
ta/ern, sign of the Black horse at the east
end of Bedford. This ftind is attended with
many advantages ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining each
other s well finifhed and upon a very convenient
plan ; the iiabling new and large and a pump at
the door—betides, there are but two taverns in
thetown. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr. John Anderfon,
of the ttivn of Bedford.
may it. iaw6tv
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITEDSTATES
forwarded for Lofedon by the (hip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates foppofed to be loft, viz :
3164. 81. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June z, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,071.
Boai. I?. Six pcrCc. t. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of bevis mount, Hants. Great
Britain, dared May 30, 1797. No. *5-196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in-»he'name of Will
iam Manning, dfOrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No
roijp.
30183. 71. Three per Cent. Stock, in the nar.ie
of Jannet Mathew, of Upt er Seymour street,
London, Widbw, dated-October 31, 1797•" No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication :j intended to be made at the f :id office of
}he Treasury cf the United Stabs,. —and all per'
fon> concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VKSSEL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof United Stales in
thename tf Williarti Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797-
No. 25981, 25983, 25984.
For the'renewal of wSich,application is meant to
he made to the said Bank of the United States,— <■
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice.
yAT FAUGH AN.
Philadelphia, may 4.
; The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
> A on the Books of said Company in the name of
t Dan.el l.ifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
t dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
. 1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. *ls0 —13066 to
- 13075, ten (hares—No. 2149 —130561013065,
! ten shares—No. 2148 —1150910 11518, ten (hares
s —No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amoemting to
t Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
. (h;p William Pern, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loll; for the re
. newal ef which, applicajion will be made to the
_ Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
~ may i *d6w
d The Co-partner(hip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson fe? Co.
TS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
A having claims againll said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those ihdebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
■- rifed to fettle the affairs of theconcern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER,
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner ef Market and
• Fourth Streets are now to be let. —Enquire of Jo
e ph Davidion.
April 16 w&s2m
J FOR SALE.
:e QEVERAL very elegarirSituatioim for Sum
id O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
s. the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
'U the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
!>• Those situations are considered in point of heplth
a ' lieauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
rt and the road known tu be fafe and good at all
3 " > leafons of the year. The title mdifputable —A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub-
S' fcriber, who will make known the terms on ap
-2 plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SRtEMAKER.
may 2. ttalfctf
Washington, Commissioners Office,
7th May, 1798.
Hr*HE Commiflionere will r< ci-ive \ nn-
I til the 20th of June next, for building ia
the City of Wafhirigton, one of the Exrcutivg
Offices lor the United States, of the following
external dimcnfions:—l4B feet iu length, and
57 feet 6 inches in breadth \ cellar walls 30
inches : firft story 13 inches ; and fccond ilory Io
inches) partition averaging 15 inches} to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms ; frmc num
ber on the Ocond (lory ; and in the loos £ room*,
with a palfage. The whole external »1 the build
ing to be of (lock brick ; the inside walls of kard
burnt brick ; cellars of best foundation stone, to
the height of the girders 5 the outside walls, as faf
as they (hew above ground, to the plinth, to be of
plain aftilar free-ftone ; soles of windows, filis of
doors and firing course, of free stone. 'J hehoufe
to be covere with cyprels (hingles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 20, tinifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the best materials j fix fmali
rooms to be groined
A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, for dvein
fpe&ion of thcfc who may wi h to contra& ; ali'o t
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement liid
dle, Esq. at Phi4adelphla.
ProT)ofals r sealed up, will be recsiVed until the
20th June Rext, on which day, the board will
proceed to contract with such person, as fha.ll ajf*
pear under all ufctimftancesto offer the bell terms*
Per order of the Comm Kroner*.
THOMAS MUNROE, Clerk*
may tt. 2awt2Qjc
BRANDY.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FRUM CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's (lre«t
■wharf.
Xr.fSf'iChoic; Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes
HazlenUts and Filberts, in fack9
A few Almonds, Raisins, &c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in fack<s
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
120 hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. calks
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, Very
superior
april 18. daw eoti7M
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux, ,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
Whits wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and balkets
Lunelle ">
Sauterne ( . _ .
Macarty, and ( W,n " ,n Cafss -
Medoc J
Thtmas Murgatroyd,
, No. 11, Walnut Street.
H*nn. -t aiUEr^-
, Irish market - •> r ( to
Medoe, and Saw* ernc^-WJnesineafc,. j dra , % baafe .
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
1 Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 400obufhels I iverpool-Salt,
ttatch Iff mw&ftf
FOR SALE;
rHE whole or ons half &f a PLANTATION
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), ion
j talning about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bo'tora
, meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (eiclufive of me?..
do>v) but will exceed 5c the next ; and any quan
tity of reunnre may be had for the upland from the
' meac.ow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hoglheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
ho»:fe with a barn, liable, granary and other ne
-1 c»lTary bull ings go with one part in cafe of a di
. vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
i one of the most elegant lituatiAns for a house to be
. seen on the river. The land is of good quajity,
fuitafcle for grazing or agriculture; and convenient
> toVnarket by land or water. For terms apply to
. the owner on the premises.
3 Thomas St- John.
May s eodtf
FOR SALE', '
Two three story Brick Houses
5 With convenient stores, wharf, &e. situ itenu
Water street, between Mulberry and Saflafraj
f Streets, containing in front on Water street sis
. ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eait
, ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
0 south thirteen feet fix inches. Theft houses
, have the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
s ing on the north fide, and area very defirahiefzt
-0 uatioit for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
e who may have occasion for ftprage of goods.
I, This property will he fold On very reasonable
terms for ralh. For further information apply
e to the printer.
April s m' wtf
TO RENT; ~
A good three story House,
I, TWO rooms on each floor, wiih a convenient
Kitchen—in Front, near South-street Enquire
f the Printer. April 10^—3aw3w
•e Forty Dollars Reward.
c T) AN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
iv Man, named Glnfgmv, perhaps he may . jfj
by the name of Gh/g"tf Lee, or may his
name ; he is a'> Out thirty on*- ye irs of age, nearly
fix feet high, has afcar in the 'ipper part of his un
der lip, a being bitten out between the
5 " middle and the corner cf his jnooth (1 believe ca
the right fide), his left hand has be n very for.-:,
and w as-fo at the time he ran away, by being burnt
~ some time past : he is a Pout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a lew years: he
3. went away in company with a negro woman of
m Mr.Jolhu:. Lingoe, of this county. It is (uppofe<i
. thsy are gone into Delaware State. Any person
_! that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
jj fubfciiber shall get him again, (hall receive the
, above reward. £SME BAYLY.
'■'] Stats of Maryland,
Soraerfet County, april lc. J may 4 —4\v
A ,
®- WAN TAD
£ A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who understands Bouse work. None
but of good chara'iler need apply—Enquire at
this sffire- *: way s
[ Volume XIII.mmm——— u ■ " 1
SALES AT AUCTION.
On Wednesday nrxt, the 16th inft. at II o'clock,
wiil be fold by Auction, onboard the Brigt.
Pcnnfylrania, at Walnut street wharf—about
iooo bushels Cadiz SAL'I.
FOOTMAN IS? Co. AuSioncers
may 14. 2t
To be fold at Publ'c Vendue,
At No„ 151, Market street, t»n Friday, ißthinft.
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,
A VARIETY or
Houfhold and Kitchen Furniture,-
CONSISTING «f Beds. Bedsteads, Chests of
Drawers, Sophas, Dininc: Tables, Card Ta
blet, round ends, Chiiirt, L ooking Gladys, Haiid
Iron*, Side Boa r is, Carpets, patent glais Lamps,
a good roasting Jack, a large Book Cafe with doors
and drawert, 3cc. &c. &c.
The above are the property of a family remov
ing to the country, and are all in good order.
EDWARD FOX, AuSioneer.
may 14. dtiß
Will be fold for Cafli,
At eight o'clock on the Eveningof MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Mer
chants* Coffee house. in Philadelphia, if
not previou/ly disposed of at pri
vate fsd'Y
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
fn the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the hf*ad of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and AUtamaha rivers, ad'
joining the common 3 of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of tr.e Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Vm M Jntofli, John Howell, & Ferdinand O'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of ■
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acre« in Bath county, on. both fides of
Green Briar Riv«r, adjoining lands <)f Jac*b War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and John Dilley, including
3000 acres of prior fur vcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east: fide of
Cowpafture River, and on hoth fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5600 aCrcs of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of ftid river, and
of Calfpaftnre River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grnbh* and including joco acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in trails of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and trails abova described.
Perfont desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut ftrept.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
mayl4| ~ dt»
advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
fh« firft Friday in June next, part of a trad of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester cous
ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate of Joshua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine month* credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and
fame, on in
terefi, from the nay or life —All creditors of the
said Jolhua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 2id
day of December lalt, that being the day-os the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WUITTINGTON, Trnftee.
may i -
United States, / *■
Pennsylvania DiflriS. J
INpurfuance of a writ to sne direfted from the
Honorable Richard Peters, Eiq. Judge, of the
Diftrid Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Di(!ri<st, will be to pub
lic sale at the Merchants* Coffe*-H®Hfe in the City
of Philadelphia on Wednesday the l6th May in
fiant.at 11 o'cloc-k a-noon,
The Brigantine tailed the
CHARLOTTE,
Kgp||;' With all and fmgttlar her tackle
apparel and furniture, as they now are—The said
Brigantine having beea condemned to pay the ma
riners waxes &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjbal.
Marlhall'sOnice,7
May 10, 1798. 3 *
N. B. The inventory may be fean at my ofrce.
Real feltate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-fsur
feet front on Great Dock-street and forty-two
feet deep j together with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, b:-ing partef the estate late of
Rev. Gilbert T.Snowden deceased. The terms
wilj be made known at the time of Sal#, by
Isaac Snowdcn, Admniftrator.
Edward Pole, Auttioneer.
may diodeots
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
GUN POWDER,
Containing ico lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front flfetts.
may 12. siw
For Sale,
Two cases of Scotch Threads,
Well assorted, and entitled to Drawback.
Apply at No. S> South Water Street,
may 11 *3'
For Sale,
ThecargoofthebrigAmericanfromLaguira,
CONSISTING Or
Caraccas Cocoa.
' Henry Philips,
No. ill, South Fourth Street.
aprilo3
Furnished Chambers —To Let.
»-piIOSE Gentlemen, Members of Corgrefs and
_l_ others, wiftiing to engage for the nextfeffion
•f Cotigrefs, Chambers, fnrnifhfd in a modern
style, and in a very plesfaflt and central part of
the city, may hear of them by applying at the
offce of this Gazette. ceiw m*v io-
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of rsmirkatyly fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
sale by JAMES YARD,
may a - daw
PHILADELPHIA, \
TUESDAYS' .NING, Mat 15-
■
On Thursday, } . Sitgreaves and Mr-
Chapman, ef the-1 jufe of Rep'refentatives
presented the following Add r efs'to the Pre
sident of thcUnited- States.
At a meeting of a number of inhabitants of
the Borough ofEafton, in Pennsylvania,
convened on Tuesday evening the firft of
May 1798, agreeably to invitations pre
% vioufly given, it was resolved to present
the following Address :
7» tbe Prefdent of the United States.
SIR,
Taking into confederation the prefcnt cri
tical and interesting llate of our country, in
consequence of the unprovoked hostilities
of the French Republic, we conceive it our
duty to assure you, that the disposition yo«
have manifefted, in your repeated attempts
by negociation to continue and secure to its
the blessings of peace with that government
has received our warmed apptobation.
The inftruftions given to cur Envoys
Extraordinary are to us fatisfa&ory proofs
that you have been influenced by motives of
the purest patriotism ; and whilst you have
used every propermeanto conciliate a friewd
ly disposition in the government of France
towards us, we are happily convinced that
you have not compromitted the honor or
dignity of our country by a surrender of
that independence (o dear to every American.
The unjust aggressions committed and
committing by the French Republic on our
defencelefs commerce, the hostile views of
that government continually manifefted to
wards ours, and the open avowal of their
dependence on a fa&ion in the very bosom
of our country devoted to their interests, are
considerations fufficient to induce all 'rue
Ameticans firmly to unite in defence of their
common country. Ye< we have rcafon to
lament that there exist, among us, men
\jho call themselves Americans, so loft or
milled relative to the true interest of their
country, as to refufe their fan&ion to those
measures, which can alor.e protgft us from
the mischievous and dangerous attempts of
that unprincipled powerwhich threatens our
existence as a nation. We trust however,
that the spirit of difur.ion, which has too
long stained the charafter of the American
nation, is nearly extindl ; and that the pe
riod is not far distant when the f eople of this
country will, as on a former memorable oc
casion, be diftinguiflied firm, vir
tuous, and persevering unanimity.
Confiding fully in the disposition you have
invariably (hewn to preferveus from the hor
rors of war, fatisfied that all your measures
have been di&ated by a sincere and ardent
love of your country, and fully relying on
your wisdom and firmnefs in theprefent dan
gerous crisis, we do not hesitate to declare
that we will give our cordial and energetic
by our government for the general good.
Signed by order and on behalf of the Meeting.
■ JOHN ARNDT, Chairman.
Thomas B. Dkck, Secretary.
To this Address the President was pleased
to make the following answer :
To the Inhabitants of the Borough of Eaflon in
Pennsylvania.
GENTLEMEN,
The unprovoked hostilities of the French
Republic are a full proof that innocence a
lone is no adequate proteftion ; it must be
intrenched in tefolution, and fortified with
power.
Your warmest approbation of the disposi
tion manifefted by me, in repeating the at
tempts atnegociation,affords me much com.
fort.
Wben you fee, in the inftruflions to our
Envoys, fatisfafiory proofs of pure patriot
ism ; when you fee every proper mean to
conciliate a friendly disposition in the gov
ernment of France ; when you fee that I
havenotcompromifed the honour or dignity
of our country by a surrender of that inde
pendence so dear to u< all ; you fee all that
I could wifti you to fee.
The unjust aggressions on our commerce
are a demonstration that it ought no longer
to be defencelefs : the hostile views of that
government, continually manifefted towards
us, are proofs that they consider anarchy in
this country is more convenient to them
than government ; their open avowal of
their dependence on a faftion in the very
bosom of our country, devoted to their in
terests, is a proof that they believed such a
faftion to exist.
I trust, with you, that tbe spirit of dis
union is much diminished ; more however
by an event which no man could have fore
feen, than by our own wisdom—but unless
the spirit of libelling and sedition {hall be
controuled by an execution of the laws, that
spirit will again increase.
When you declare your fatisfa&ion that
all my measures have been diftated by a sin
cere and ardent love of my country, you
touch my sensibility beyond my powers of
e'-preffiot:; when you offer your cerdial aud
energetic support to such means as may be
adopted by government forthegeneral good,
you command the unreserved applause of
every good citizen.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May It, 1798.
ADDRESS
To the President of the United States.
We the Subscribers, being a Committee
on the part of a refpe&able meeting of the
Citizens of Worceftcr county in the State
of Maryland, convened at Snowhill forthe
purpose of exprefling their sense of the eon
dnft of cur government in regard to its fo
reign relations and to declare their determi
nation at this pre fling crisis to support it, do
comtrunicate to you as the unanimous sense
of the said mtrting, lhat your attempts to
restore that harmony between the United
States and the French Republic, which has
beep so unfortunately impaired, and torein
state that good underftandiiig between t le
two nations so defirabletothe loverscf peace,
have been wife and prudent, and intitle you
to the highest evidence of their esteem.—-
Imprefled as they are with the wisdom, an
propriety of the measures hitherto pur uc
in the adminiftratron of our government ; ,
sensible of our present alarming situation,
and believing that our difficulties have heen
occasioned in agreat measure by internal and
foreign machinations, calculated to pro uce
in' France an unfounded opinion that the A
mcrKins are a divided people : In order to
aid in removing an opinion so injurious to
our national eharafter and so hazardous to
ourpeace they will never hesitate to proclaim
to the world their determination, and they do
hereby pledge themselves to you to support j
any measures which may _be adopted by j
the governmertt of their country calculated
to support their rights and assert the dig
nity of the nation. Whilst we thus express
to you the approbation and determination
of our fellow-citizens, we cannot forbear
to declare our abhorrence, of the profligate
and difgraceful conduct of the government
of France which has been disclosed in the
Dispatches from our Envoys. While we
lament the unfortunate necessity of having
to negociate with charafters who do not he
sitate to acknowledge their own
on and to declare that the justice of our
claims will avail us nothing; but that the
only meafrire of their exidrions is the extent
of their power. To* this conduct, those
amiable principles of religion, morality and
forbearance, contained in your late procla
mation, exhibit to Americans a pleasing
com raft.
Permit us also to indulge a hope, that in
this threatening profpeft of our affairs, har
mony and unanimity may pervadeour public
councils and our citizens at large, and to
express our unfeigned wilhes for your health
and happiness ih thetryingfituationin whish
you are placed.
John Selby Purnell.
IViUiam Wbitt'ington. I Committee .
E. K. Wtlfim. I
Samuel Handy. J
April 27, 1798.
To which thePrefident returned thefollowing
ANSWER.
To John S. Purnell, William Whittington,
Ephraim K. Wi'fon, and Samuel Handy,
a Committee of a meeting of citiaens of
Worcester county in the State of Mary
land.
GENTLEMEN,
I have received from the hands of your
Representative, Mr. Dennis, your letter of
the /7th of April, expressing the sense of
the.citizens aflembled at Siiowhill-
Your approbation of the measures of gov
ernment and determination to support them
are very acceptable.
The Dispatches exhibit a scene of cor
ruption, depravity and intrigue, which is
happy to find you observe in it a contra ft to
those amiable principles of religion, moral
ity and forbearance, contained in a late Pro
clamation. Every lover of his country
must join with you in the hope, that in this
threatening profpeft of our affairs, harmo
ny and unanimity may pervade our couucils,
and our citizens at large. I return with
thanks, your kind and unfeigned wishes for
my health and happiness in these trying
times.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 4, 1798.
Answer of the President of the United
States to the address of the'citizens of
Burlington county, New-Jersey, publish
ed some days Cnce in this Gazette.
To the citizens of Burlington county, in the
Jlate of New-Jersey.
GENTLEMEN,
1 A copy of your unanimous and spirited
resolutions at Mount-Holly on the2ift of
April, has been presented to me by Mr.
r Imlay and Mr. Schureman, two of your
. representatives in congress.
There is nothing in the eonduft of our
enemies more remarkable than their total
contempt of the people, while tljey pretend
• to do all for the people, and of all real re
publican governments ; while they screen
i themselves under some of their names and
1 forms ; while they are erefting military des
potisms, under the dalufive names of re
r prefentative democracies, they are demol
ishing the Pope, by the most machiavel/an
maxim of one of his predecefTors, " If the
1 good people will be deceived, let him be
deceived."
The American people are unquestionably
■ the best qualified, of any great nation in
. the world, by their charadter, habits, and
all other circureftances, for a real republi
can government ; yet the American peo
ple are represented as in opposition, in en
mity, and on the point of hostility against
the government of their own institution,
• and the administration of their own choice.
1 If this were true, what would be the con
s sequence ? Nothing more, nor less, than
I that they are ripe for a military despotism,
: under the denomination of a foreign pow
, er ; it is to me no wonder, that American
f blood boils at these ideas.
Your ardent attachment t»the constitu
tion and government of the United States
and compleat confidence, in all its depart
ments ; your firm resolution, at every ha
zard, to maintain, support and defend,
with your lives, and soi tunes, every mea
sure, which by your lawful representatives,
may be deemed neceflary, to protect the
: rights, !ib«rty, and independence of the
: United Statesof America, will do you honor
■ with all the world, and with all posterity.
Your fourth resolution has penetrated
. my heart, with refpeft, gratitude and af
-1 ieftion.
JOHN ADAMS.
i Philadelphia, May Bth, 1798.
CONGR& sS - °
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, jj
a
WEDNESDAY— MAY 2*
The bill authorizing the President of the U- t
nited States to build or put-chafe a nnmbef of
froall vfffcll, to be employed as gallies,, or other-
wife, was read the third time and ■ (
Mr. Otis presented an address from (he inhab
itants of Boston, to the President and the Con
gress of the United States, expreffke of t^ e . ir
approbation of the conduft of the Executive in , ,
its neeociation with the French governmen , (
and a determination to support every mea ure (
agreed upon by Congress ; declaring that they ,
wish to evince the world that the people of «
the United States are not humiliated under a co- ,
lonial spirit of fear, nor are they a divided peo- ,
pie, but that they know their rights and are de
termined to support them. Referred to e ]
1 committee of the whole on the State of the ,
U 'm" D. Foster, from the committee of claims i
made a report on the petition of Benjamin Wells i
who prays for further redress than lie has at pre
sent received, for lofies Curtained in the Western :
Infurreflion, in the discharge of his duty as ;
colletfor of the revenue. The report was unfa
vurable, and was committed for Monday.
On motion of Mr. Sewall the hoafe went in
to a committee of the whole on the report made ,
vefterday by the committee for the protection ot
commerce and the defence of the country, on
the fubjea of naturalization ; and the report
having been read, and the firft resolution for'
prolonging the term of residence before aliens
lhall be admitted as citizens being under coniide
ration „ „,
Mr. Sew all said, the term of residence now
required from foreigners, before they can be
come citizens, i» five years, The committee
think this period too short, it is much ihorter
than the period adopted by the French govern
ment. The committee were of ppinion that a
refidenee of at least ten year? should be required I;
but this might be left a blank in the bill, ,and af
terwards filled.
Mr. Harper believed it was high time we
Ihould recover from the mistake which this coun
try fell into when it firft began to form its con
stitutions, of admitting foreigners to citizenship.
This mistake, fce believed, had been produce
of very great evils to this country, and unle.s
corre&ed, he was apprehensive these evils would
greatly increase. He believed the time was now
come when it would be proper to declare, that
nothing but birth Ihould entitle a man to citi
zenlhip in this country. He thought this was
the proper season for making the declaration.
He believed the United States had experience
enough to cute them of the folly of believing,
that the strength and happiness of the country
would be promoted by admitting to the rights
of citizenship all the congregations of people
who resort to these shores from every part of the
world. Under these impressions, which, as he
supposed they would have the fame force upon
others, as upon himfelf, he {hould not detain the
committee by dilating upon, as he proposed to
amend the resolution by adding to it the follow
ing words, viz. " that provision ought to be made
bylaw for preventing any per/on becoming enti
tled to the rights of a citizen ef the United States
except by birth" ,
The chairman declared thisamendment would
be a substitute to the resolution before the com
mittee, and therefore not in order.
Mr. Otis said, he would propose an amend
ment which he believed would be in order,
which was as follows, viz. " and that no alien
ytrr/eni a_citiicn of the Unit
ed States, Joull fcereajnx. oe cum—*.-. t .- v
any office of honor, truji or profit under the Unit
ed States."
Mr. Harper moved to amead this amendment
■ by adding the following words : "or of -voting
i at the elellion of any member of the legislature of
the Unittd States, or of any Jlate"
Mr. H. said, he was for giving foreigners
' every facility for acquiring property, of holding
1 this property, of raising their families, and of
transferring their property to their families. He
; was willing they ihould form citizens for us ;
but as to the rights of citizenship, he was not
willing they ftlould be enjoyed, except by per
sons born in this country. He did not think
this even was desirable by the pei sons themselves.
Why, he aiked, did foreigners seek a residence
\ in this country ! He supposed it was either to
better their condition, or to live under a go vern
■ ment better and more free than that they had
left. But was it neceflary these persons should
, at once become entitled to take a part in the con
cerns of our government ? He believed it by
no means neceflary either to their happiness or
prosperity, and he was sure it would not tend
[ to the happiness of this country. If the native
citizens are not indeed adequate to the perform
ance of the duties of government,' ij might be
• expedient to invite legislators or voters from
other countries to do that business for which they
themselves are not qualified. But if the people;
of the country, who owe their birth to it, are
adequate to all the duties of government, he
couid not fee for what reason strangers should be
admitted. Strangeis, who, however acceptable
they may be in other refpedls, could not have
the fame views and attachments with native citi
zens. Under this view of the fubjeil, he was
convinced it was an efiential policy, which-lay
at the bottom of civil society, that none but per
sons born in the country fhouM be permitted to
take a part in the government. There might
have be?n, Mr. H. acknowledged, individual
exceptions, and there may be again, to this gen
eral rule , but it was neceflary to make regula
tions general, and he believed the danger arising
from admitting foreigners generally to citizen
ship, would be greater than the inconveniences
arising 'rom debarring from citizenship, the most
deserving foreigners. He believed it would
have been well for this country, if the principle
contained in this amendment had been adopted
sooner ; he hoped it wouid now beadopted.
Mr. S. Smith believed it would be baft firft to
decide upon the resolution as reported ; if it was
negatived, the gentleman from S. Carolina might
then introduce his amendment as a fubftitnte.
i Toadopt the resolution as reported, would be,
t he believed, to agree upon an ex pojl faflo regu
lation. It could not be intended, he should sup
pose, to prevent persons who had refidedin this
country two or three years, under th* expecta
tion of becoming citizens at the end of five years
from that privilege,
i Mr. Champtiu fu»geftcd whether, if this
amendment was adopted, it would not prevent
. foreigners, who ars not at prel'cnt citizens- of
the United States, from becoming officers in the
military departments of the United States. If
so, he believed it •rou'.d be proper te insert the
word civil before officers
Mr. Otis acknowledged that the objections of
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. S. Smith)
were, in some degree, f.-unded ; but there
i might be regulations introduced into the bill to
avpidthem. The present law, he believed, di
rcdls that persons shall give notice of their inten
tion of becoming citizens of the United'Stat'es.
Where this notice had been given, he thought
such persons should be excluded from the opera
tion of the law. These rtfo'utionj having only
been laid upen the table this morning, he wifti
ed, however, that thi committee might rife, in
order to afford a little time for consideration.
He wished to exclude all foreigners, which he
could coiiftitutionally exclude, from holding of
fices in the United States; but not to entrap such
as are in the way of becoming citizens'
Mr. Harper said, that having had it
to him that the constitution would not admit of
restraining the tatts in their admiflion of citizens,
he should withdraw hisamendment for the prelum,
until he had had an opportunity of examining the
constitution in this refpe<3.
The-motion being put for the committee to rift,
if was carried, and the committee rose rccordingly.
' The senate informed the house, by mefla<*e, that
I they had received information from the President
of the United States, that he had approved and
signed the aft providing an additional armament
for the protedion of the commerce of the United
States, and fer other purposes; a»d the a<2 for the
eflabhfhment of a new department, under th« de
nomination of rha Navy Department
The senate also informed the houfs, that they
have palfed a resolution authorizing Thomas Pinck
ney, late minister plenipotentiary in London, to
receive the prefenfs offered to him by tht courts of
Great Britain and Spain, to which they reqaeft
concurrence.
On motion Mr. Harper, the house went into
a committee of the whole on the bill to provide
enmpenfations for Marshals, Clerks, Jurors and
WitnefTes in the courts of the United States; and
after confiderahle discussion, the committee rose,
leave was refufed to them to fit again, and the bill
was recommitted to a committee of iixteen mem -
bers.
Mr. Gallatin then proposed the following in
ftruition te the commi'tee.
" Refolvtd, That the committee to whom this
bill is referred be inJlruOled to enquire into the an
nual official emoluments received by Mar/hals,
Clerks, and TMftriS Attornies, dijlinguijhing be
twixt fees paid by individuals, and what is
paid by the United States "
After confideraole opposition from Meflrs Den
nis, Bayard, Harper and Otis, this resolution was
carried, 36 to }s.
Mr. Harper presented the report from the com
mittee of ways and means, recorr,mending a direA
tax of two millions to he raised by a direiS tax up
on land, houses and slaves, which was yedcrday
re-committed. It was referred to a committee of
the whole, aadmade the order for Friday.
Mr. Gillefpie proposed a resolution for the adop
tion of the house, directing th« committee oT com
merce and manufactures to enquire whether it it
not expedient lor the bctt; r fccurity of the navi
gation to the port of Wilrrjngton, N. C. to place
a buoy and pier within that harbour, which was
agreed to. Adjourned.
The following are referred tP in the Report
of the committee of Ways and Means, in
ycfterday's Gazette.
Committee Room, April 21, 1798.
S 1 R,
By defireof the committee of Ways and
Means, and for their use, I have the hon
our to request frem you the following infor
mation as speedily as circumstances may
permit.
1 1. An account of receipts and expendi
■ tures for the last quarter of the last year ;
? and of the surplus of revenue for the la It year
beyond the appropriations and actual expen
diture.
1 ,2. A statement of the account between
- the United States, and the Bank, as it now
stands ; more especially with refpell' 10 the
• reimbursement of former loans.
> 3. The probability of obtaining from th#
2 bank temporary loans, in anticipation of
. . revenue, suppose to the amount of
- 2,000,000 of dollars ; the revc ue to be rai
sed by direst taxes.
' 4. The probability of obtaining fiom the
> banks, or individuals, permanent loans, for
the current service of the year, on the balls
8 of new revenues, with an efficient finking
t fund. jSuppofe the loans to amount to
f 5,000,000 in irredeemable stock, at 6 per
: cent, and the finking fund to i,oce,coo to
: be applied quarterly in the purchaie of old
1 and new stock, except the present fix er
cents ; and aided by an adequate provision
for supplying deficiencies in former revenue.
: 5. An estimate of tfie ordinary expense
> and revenue of the current year; meaning by
- ordinary expense, all expenditures other
| than those for defence ; and by ordinary re
venue, that to arise from the present existing
. taxes of every kind.
r With the greatest refpeft,
I I have the honor to be,
• SIR,
Your very humble servant,
; (Signed) ROBERT G. HARPER.
r Honorable Mr. Wolcott, 1
Secretary of the Treasury. j
Treasury Department, Apri127,i798.
S 1 R,
In compliance with the letter which you
; did me the honour to write on the 21 ft in
ttant I herewith transmit, for the use of the
committee of Ways and Means, the follow
ing statements :
1 ft. A profpe&ive view of the revenue
and expenditure of the United States for the
entire year 1798, being an estimate of the
ordinary expenditure of the United States
under existing laws, and the probable pro
dudl of taxes of every kind.
2d. A statement of the aflual receipts
and expenditures of the United States du
ring the last quarter of the year 1797.
3d. A like statement of receipts and ex
penditures during the fir ft quarter of the
present year ; which though not finally ad
justed are piefumed to be correftly exhibited.
4th. A statement of the balances which
remained unexpended of certain appropria
tions for the current service on the 30th of
September, and 31 ft of December, 1797,
and 31ft of March, 1798.
sth. A statement of the loans obtained
from the bank of the United States, and
the sums which remain unpaid.
The statements before mentioned com
prize all the information required by the
r committee, and exhibit, in a connc&ed fe.
ries, the principel results of the operations
: of this department, subsequent to these da
ted in the documents which accompanied
. my report of the Bth of December, 1797,
t o the firft of the present month.
It is the duty of the commissioners of the
finking fund, to apply t» the reduction of
the public debt all furpluffes of the revenue
of the United States, which remain at the
end of any calendar year,beyond the amount
of the appropriatious charged upou the fa'd
■ isvenuts, apd whieh during the feffioo ofCongress next thereafter, are not othefwife
appropriated, ar reserved by law. In purr
fuance of this dire&ion, upwards of one mil
lion and nine hundred thousand dollars were
applied of the proceeds of revenue, to the
reduftion of the public debt in the year 1797.
The sums which remained in the Treasury
were ntceffarily reserved for the current ser
vice i there cannot, therefore, be stated any
surplus of revenue, for the last year, as a
fund for new appropriations : the proba
ble surplus of the present yearabovethe sums
which will be required for the foreign debt,
the rcimhurfement of domestic fix per sent
stock, and the support of exiftiig eftablilh
ments, is stated in the account numbered,
I entertain no doubt that the bank of the
United States will readily ccjnfent to coti 1
tinue the loans which they have made to 1
the United Stats, and I feel enti e confi
dence 'hat funds can be obtained in antici
pation of any solid revenues which can be
established.
It is not easy to form a certain opinion
®f the sum, which can immediately be ob
tained on permanent loans, nor of the ex
pence which will attend them/ The 'Uni
ted States are unquestionably entitled to cre
dit on the most advantageous terms : the
installments in Holland which be ame due
prior to the present year, have*been dischar
ged ; effectual remittances for the sums
which will be payable before Deeembernex! ,
have been assured ; the sums of stock which
are offered for falc are not considerable j
there is no ground for dillryfting the public
ability or good faith—the present prices of
stock are not considered as indications of di
ffruft,but of the high value cf money at the
present time—assurances have been received
frore wealthy a»d influential men. that they
will assist the United States with' new loans j
on reafonatje terms. On hefe grounds I
conceive myfelf juftifiable in expressing an
opinion, that the public credit will affo d
refotirces adequate to any exigency which
CStn be reasonably contemplated.
But to the fuccfefs of new loans and es
pecially as a security against a too common
abuse of the funding system, it is of the nt
moft importancetoeftablifh competent funds
for the reimbursement, in a reasonable time
of any capitals which may be borrowed. The
provision of a finking fund as mentioned in
your letter, ought therefore to be consider
ed as an iadifpenfible requisite.
I hjive the honor to be,
with perfeft refpeft,
Sir. your obedient servant
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury,
7he Hon Robert Goodloc Harper, Esq.
Chairman of the Committee of Ways and
Means.
Collectors Office,
PH ladelphia, MAV 15, 1798.
FOR SALE AT ÜBLIC AUCTION,
At the Custom House, on Friday, the fifteenth
_of June, 1798, the following Merchandize, i
which remain in the Custom House Stores more
than nine months, unclaimed by the owners or ,
consignees thereof
(X H) eight half faggots of Steel
(T D) 202 one bale Ginhweb
(T L) a quantity of Steel
wVp one cafe Lamps
oc
C & C one cafe Bo'obin
(\V) one I'm all box Medicine
JiTi 203 one matted cafe Dutch Books
■ I& C one heg Herrings
(W) oncfmall box of samples of Muttons
1 three bales Girthwcb
[V H] ion one ditto ditto
[N] 200 ene ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars Olives
(ditto) one bundle Slates
[L S] one small box Locks dtg
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good oachman, an excellent waiur, and
has been accuftnmed to marketing for a family-
Ms age about thirty two year*. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office this Gazette,
may -f.
"""" ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS the fu fcrit er and his wife Jane
have by mutual consent agreed
to live separate and apart from each other from
lied and board, thel'e are therefore to forewarn ail
perfoni fromtrufling heron my account, as by
contrail (he is to support herfelf for the future, and
lam determined not to pay any drbt of her con
traiStiue SAMUEL HODGKINSON.
mayij: 'it-aw
~ SiRAYfcD,
ON Monday .the fourteenth of May from a
pasture lot in Soutli-fireet, near Lebanon
a Bay Horf'e, 14-| hands hijih, with a star and
snip and two hind feet white, a little lame and
fore in the near hind leg —Whoever w ill bring
the said Horle to the Sugar House in Shippen
ftreet shall be handsomely rewarded.
may 15 th _§—
New Publication.
A Sensible, Seasonable and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM' \ OUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second flreets,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut ftr
(Price three ftxtccntbi r,f a dollar)
Pxtrait from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquishing one right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new concession
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more in/blent by uninterrupted success, and
timid submission invites depredation-Where
will this end ? What offering will gorge the
appetite of plunder, or nppeafe the rage
of unrefiftsd hoflility ? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
and ins lence, no free nation has ever be
fore endured them."
To be Sold,
THE time of a smart, aiftive BLACK GIRL,
nsarten years of age, and has upwards of eight
yeir\to frrve. Ft jyirticubrs, enquire at Wal
nut cornerof Dock Ureets, No- 46.
may 11. -3'
%iu <3asette»
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Mat 15.
~ :
Extract of a letter from an American gen
tleman in London, dated March 14th,
T 79 8 -
" Denmark and Sweden have resolv
ed to arm a part of their naval forces
for the protection of their commerce ; i
and, with Prussia, have ordered their
envoys at Paris, to rCmoriftrate against
the late laws affedling the commerce of
neutral nations."
FIRE!
Lad Evening about n o'clock, a Fire
broke out in Kelfey's Livery Stables in
Church-alley: The range was 120 feet in
length, an 1 extended by (he weft wa 1 of
Fox and Dorfey's Sugar House. The flames
from the Stables ascended above the gable
end wail of the said Sugar House, which is
seven stories high. .There can be no doubt
the Sugar House was saved by its brick
walk, which are 21 inches thick, ap.dAy
'feverteen iron window fcuiters, which were
closed, as the time that a sheet of fire was
blazing for two hours against them. When
the fituatiou of the Stables, confined as they
were in the center of a large number of
brick houses and close to them, is consider
ed, it is astonishing that any exertions could
rescue the adjacent houses from total def- j
tnifta'on—yet so it is, that no other damage 1
was done, except to the old (table and a \
number of sheds which were wholly consu
med, in thirm nine or ten horses were burnt
to death and some carriages were destroyed.
The fire :s supposed to have been accidental.
CONGRESS.
Yeflerday, the House again went into a
committee of the whole 011 the bill from the
Senate, authorizing the President to raise a
Provisional Army ; when the firft additional
fettion proposing to authorize the calling out
of 20,000 of the militia detachments ordered
by the law of June lad, to be held in requisi
tion, for the purpose of training, Bcc. was
negatived, there being only 11 votes for it.—
The second feftion recommended, proposing
the loan of artillery "to any militia corps eft*-
blifhed by la»v, was agreed to ; so was the
third tor loaning field artillery, arms, and ac
coutrements from the arsenals of the United
States to any portion of the militia called into
service, which shall be deficient; the fourth,
providing for the purchase of caps, swords,
and pistols for 4000 cavalry, to be loaned to
such parts o'i the United States as (hall want
them, was agreed to, and 200,000 dollars to
be appropriated for carrying that and other
purpo(es un 'er the aft, into execution. The
fifth and last section, recommended, for ex
empting soldiers from arrest was also agreed
to. The committee then proceeded to consi
der the bill as amended when a motion was
made by Mr. Harrison, to strike out in the
third feftion the words authorizing jlie.Pr.efi
dent to appoint the
"iuE i-uipb, vviJiCTT -jiro
pofes the President shall accept the services
of. Mr. Varnum moved to (Irilce out the
whole feclion, on the ground of its being an
unconflitutional provision. This motion oc
casioned considerable debate, and the com
mittee rose., without taking a question uponit.
Married on Saturday evening, bv the Rev.
Mr. Jones, Mr. John Stoddart, Merchant, to
Miss Rebecca Aihton, both ot this city.
Capt. Grimes, arrived at New-York, from
Amsterdam, fays, that a Dutch squadron de
signed for some secret expedition, was ready
for sea.
—"7 t
New-Jersey, May \\th, 1798.
MR. FENNO.
Rejoicing to fee my country returning
to the true American fpiiit, from the base
and submissive fcntiments to which the fac
tion of fools and knaves would have degraded
it I fend you, with pleasure, a copy of an
address to the President, now signing by the
militia officers of this state, with our soldierly
and worthy Governor at their head. It is
calculated to maintain the honour that the
militia of New-Jersey have already-acquired,
and that was so justly pledged to govern
ment in the address from Princeton, K'tngflon,
Montgomery, and Windsor• The example
deserves to be imirated by the military of
every state in the union.
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
sir,
THE Commander in Chief, the General
Officers, the General Staff aud Field Offi
ceis of the Militia of the state of New-Jer
sey, feel, in common with their numerous
Fellow-Citizens, who have addressed you
in the present critical situation of our na
tion, and most cordially join them in ex
pressing to you/heir high approbation of
your conduft in the management of its
Foreign Concer s. and their indignation for
the insult offered to the honor and indepen
dence of the American People.
We come not, Sir, to dilate—Whether
Peace can be preferred with the fafety of
our national dignity, or whether an appeal
is to be made to arms, are questions en
truftedto those in wh f<* patriotism we con
fide, and according to their decision we .shall
always be prepared to a£l.—But, Sir, at
this eventful period, we deem it our duty,
and we feel i a pleasure, refpeiStfully to ap
proach our Commander in Chief, and to
make him a foletrin proffer of our Lives and
in thfc service of our Country,
It is not, Sir, for Soldiers to boast; but
we k ow the troops whom wfphave the ho
nour to command—we have been eye-wit
nesses to their ardent zeal in the cause of
Freedom—we have been their companions
in many toils and many fuffering3, and if
our beloved Country calls, we shall again
cast the eye of confidence along their em
battled rinks.
Let our enemies flatter themselves that
we are a divided people—ln New-Jersey,
Sir, with the exception of a few degraded
and a few deluded chara&ers, to wliofe per
foas and to whose services the invading foe
shall be welcome, from the moment of their
arrival, and whom we engasje to convey in
fafetv to their lines—in New-Jersey, Sir,
there is but ONE VOlCE^—and that is
the voice of confidence in the Federal Go
vernment—The voice of perfect fatisfaftion
with your administration of it—and the
voice of firmnefs and determination ts> sup
port the Laws and couftitutio —the honor
and dignity of the United Stater; and, Sir,
for the defence of these, we do this day, In
the pre fence of the God of Armies, irrid in firm
reliance on his proteflion, folemf'y pledge to you
our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred
Honour. , tf
For the. Gazette of the United States.
I am an old man, near seventy. I afTifted
in gaining the independence of my country.
My military apparatus I haves arefully pre
served to be handled again, fhowld the folly
of tyrants make it necessary, and 'in ready
any moment when called on, to join a corps
of old veterans, and, at the risk of life, to
do all that I am able for the political salva
tion of America. Liberty or Death !
For what is life wheft placed iti competition
with heavenly liberty ?-I am happy in feeing
the youth of Philadelphia glowing with love
of country, and so alert and ready in offering
their personal services at th.s momentous
crisis. I doubt not they will immediately
submit to be disciplined, and to learn the
military art ; and if the counten nces of
these young men be a true index of their
minds, as I believe it is, certain I am they
are iincere in their voluntary profeffions,
and may God speed their exertions ! The
present laudable spirit I hope will pervade
every slate in the union, and enkindle in
each .heart the sacred fire of liberty. My
country has been crriel'y treated by a pow
erful, unjust nation. A strong- blustering
man may impose, « ith impunity, on a weak
man : when po help i; at hand, he rnuft
then crouch under superior force—How
mean and cowardly is fucli a bravado ? I
did hope nations would have afted more
honorably; but, alas, how have we been
deceived ! When power is in their hands,
they are sure to tyrannize—The present
rulers of France do not aft justly to this
country —Had the firft rulers lived till thi«
day, affairs would have been otherwise
Gratitude, probably, would have inspired
their fouls with genuine friendship and love
towards a people from whom they caught
the flame of liberty—they were llaves be
fore that time. Artful Jesuits have been
sent through the land to propagate their
principles—deftruftive to America; —and
much has been bui'< on their success ;* but
vain are all their expeftations. Our govern
ment is a good one—We want no French
novelties, and will not be filched out of our
money—America must and will be inde
pendent of all the nations on earth. We
are not effeminated Italians, Venitians, or
of
renown : and of this, those wtonce called
allies, at the capture of Cornwallis, were
eye-witnesses. What! part with our birth
right ?—forbid it Heaven ! Let U9 deter
mine rather to die in the last ditch !
A COLUMBIAN.
MR. FENNO,
THE natural result of the abuse of the liberty of
the press on the part of the Jacobins and Democrats,
has long since been fore Teen, but the conlequences
have but just began to ripen into general notice, and
feeling.
Freneau, Greenleaf, Adams and Bache gave rife to
this fubflitiition of Opprobrium and inve&iYe, for
reason and argument. It hough there were attempts
to defeat their purposes, by honeit endeavours to bring
them to a sense of decency and propriety, all would
not do.—Delphi ring of any other mode of defence,
fevcral writers have receutty entered the lifts, and de
feated these miscreants in their own way: But as every k
well-educated man cannot descend to such weapons,
duels have been fought., and blood foilt on these occa
sions. The Champion of audacious Giles, and 3.
Livingfton, have each destroyed their,federal am&go
nifti, who died in defence of virtue, decency and their
country. Thus stands the account at present,—Dr.
The Enemies of Virtue, of Order and ol their Coun
try, to the Lives of iwo brave, though unforuufte,
Men. How the account will fland in future, imc
only can shew. NO DUELLIST.
Died, at Boston, on the sth inft. Jona
than Mason, Esq. aged 73-;
The report of an arrival at Baltimore,
from Liverpool, is not confirmed by tha
papers received this day.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Bacht's Executive Mirror turned into a
Jacobin Magnifying Glass, came too late for
thi'3 day's paper,
A Sermon
Will be delivered, to-morrow evening at
half pad seven o'clopk, at the Baptill Meet
ing H use in Second Street, by the Rev.
Wm Staughton, Principal of Borden
town Academy, io behalf of the Philadelphia
Missionary Society.—The collection to be ap
propriated tu its funds.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. Days.
Schr. Sally, Gage, Boston, 10
Sloop Amity, Woodward, Portimouth, 14
New-Tori, Mny 14.
ARRIVED, DAYS.
i Ship Sampson, , Canton 108
Faftor, Kemp, London
Howard, Allen, IfleofMay 34
Brig Commerce, Thurfton, Gibraltar
Schr. Rebecca, Harrifon, Halifax
Sloop John, Lee, Fayal
Lindia, , Wilmington 8
Capt. Potter, of the {hip Polly of Bos
ton, fai'ed in co. from Fayal for Bolton.
Capt. Kemp failed with the convoy, and
brings no news, Saw a vessel on the coast
which he fuppof d to be a French privateer.
Brig Little George is arrivsd at Havaa
na in 11 days from this port.
Schr. r Oliver Smith, master, ai
rived in the river of Bourdeaux oc the firft
of March last.
Ship Leed's packet of this pnrt, from
Charleston bound t< ' is taken by
the Vigilant, Frencl . ;teer, and sent in
to Paimpool.
In the AmfterdnmjL tfeet came 45 pas.
fengers.
The Harmony three matted lugger, a Da
nish vessel, upset in the squall on Sunday
last, one man loft, the reft have arrived at
Rhode Island.
Yesterday arrived brig Commerce, captain
Thurfton 44 days from Gibraltar, informs
that on the 14th April, lat. 36, qo, long.
26, 00, was hoarded and plundered by tfie
French privateer (hip La Revenge, captain
Gre'let of 16 guns from Bordeaux. Capt.
Grellet. compelled capt. Thurfton to take
on bewrd, part of the crew of the brig Far
mer, capt. Whittemore, of N. York from
Liverpool and Milford Haven baund to St.
Michael's and Madeira, which (he fellt into
Bordeaux.
The brig A6tive, of Bafton for Boston,
and a long coppered bottom fchr. for New-
York. failed from Gibraltar in company
The fafe arrival of the Faftor, captain
Kemp yesterday, with the following passen
gers affords much pleasure.
Mr. and Mrs. Bayard and family, Mr. Li- ;
vinijfton, Mr. Fleming, Mr. Naylor, Mr. '
L'Hommedieu, Mr. Elmes, Mr. Ward,
Mr. Bellamy, Mr. Evans and Mr. Ferris.
From the Log Book of the ship Portland,
from Liverpool.
May 4, lat 40, 85, song 68, spoke the
Thomas, Pollard. days from Liverpool
bound to Philadelphia, and a barque from
the Havanna bound to Salem, May 5
spoke the schooner Lark, Snow, from
Grenada bound to Salem, and two English
(liip3 of war, the Asia, of $3 and afliftance
of 50, with a French privateer which they
had takeil, bound to Halifax.
In addition to those vessels inferttd on
Thursday, capt. Sage, of the schooner Bet
sey and Nancy, has favoured irs with the
following lift of prizes carried into Guada
loupe ;
Schr. Betsey and Patty, Curtifs, of Bal
timore, bound to Guadaloupe, run afliare
by the privateerfmen and condemned.
Sloop Clarissa, Buckley, of Hartford,
(Con.) Surinam, condemned.
Schr. Betsey and Nancy, Sagh of Mid
dleton, to St. Bartholemews condemned
without trial, the day after beirtg taken.
Schr. Eagle, Cole, of Boston, to St*
Thomas and Bernia, cleared, after 6 weeks
detention, and his cargo mostly perished.
Ship Lady, Wimbleton, of St. Croix #
from New-York, to St. Croix, condemned.
Scht. *•, Kent, of Boston, to Jac
mel, cleared, and his cargo demanded by
administration.
Swedish barque, of St. Bartholomews,
from Baltimore to St. Bartholomews, con
demned.
Schr. Weft, of Polly landing, (Vir.) to
to do. condemned.
Schr. Nancy Hardeway, of Boston, from
Surinam, was firft taken into Barbadoes,
and cleared, afterwards taken, and condem
ned for no other reason than that the own
er was not an h merican born, who has resi
ded in Boston full 45 years.
Brig James and Maryonette, Dubois, of
Edenton to Guadaloupe, condemned.
Schr. Speedwell, Stuart, of Portland,
from Washington to St. Croix, do.
i Brig } ,of Newburyport, bound
to Guadaloupe, waiting trial.
ALBANY, May 7.
Union College, May 3, 1798.
Yesterday the annual commencement of
this college was held in the Drttcl, church,
at which a very refpe&able audience (among
whom were his excellency the governor,
and his honor the Lt. governor) attended.
The whale business of the day was con
duced in such manner as to do honor to the
| President, and Preceptors, and the Stu
! dents of the college.
1 he degree of bachelor of arts was con
ferred on Jothua Formao, Morris S. Mil
ier, Alexander M'Leod, Henry Oothout,
Reuben Sears and John Na(h Smith.
The degree of master of arts was con
ferred on the Rev. Alexander Pioudfit, a
graduate of Columbia college, and a min
ister of the associate synod ; and on Mr.
Andiew Yates, a tutor in college, and
graduate of Yale College.
The degree of doftor of laws was con
fered on Peter Wilson, Esq. profeffor of
languages in Columbia college.
At the late meeting of the trustees, Dr.
H. Vanden Heyvel was chosen profeffor of
natural philosophy and astronomy.
The apparatus for the use of the college,
lately arrived from Europe, is very com
plete, as to the accuracy and elegance \pf
the instruments. ,
HARTFORD, (Conne<Slieut) May to.
Yesterday, being the day preceeding Eleflion,
arrived in town his honor Governor Trumbull.
By his particular request his horse-guards pro
ceeded no farther than the river so receive him.
The cerem ny on that occafton being new,
beautiful and highly expressive of the rerpefl
and attachment of all clafles of people to th«
ruler; of their choice, we lay an account ps it
before the puhl'c.
Ihe shipping with their <a)Jori flj'ifij? were
formed in two lines extending across the river,
-one above and the other below the ferry The
(hip Four Sifters, denominated the admiral's
(hip, formed it. the center of the upper line ful
ly dressed—on the governor's a-rival wi'h his
fu<t on the east bank of the river, a salute of
cannon was fired from the admiral —three boats
prepared for the purpose, manned with fifteen
sea captains (in allusion to the fifteen {laces on
the American flandard) brought over, palfing
through the lines, the governor and his suit, —
the officers of his guard ajid.Uie band of music ;
the boat carrying the I'overunr and his suit crofT
ed in the center, be 1 ween theone veith tlt/band
of music, and that u ith the otPcers of his guard.
When thegoverfcor can. e ahreaftcf (he admiral's
(hip tl.ree chcci* were given troro 011 board all
the fftippinp—or.liis landing the fiiJejnntJtT
falnte «a fired from the admiral^
A procefiiw being then formed, tlie governor
was efforted, by his guards, a band of mjilte,
and a numerous body of refpeflihle tfirhen*
through town tb major Ridley's tavern. On h : 9
arrival there, a salute was fired by his guards,
which wasiftfwered by the admiral—the whole
was conduced with thi ilnwft decorum, and in
A manner which rcfleile.d the highest Honor oil
the different departments concerned in the cere
monial.
ALBANY May i, 1798.
There were some who filtered theliifeves
with an idea that the communications of our
eorrimiffioners .on embassy at France would
produce complete union, Sc a universal &
unhesitating approbation of the conduit of
Government, anting sll who claimed, the
appellation of real Americans : but the re
sult does not juftify an eve t which wou'd
have been so plea si ng. v There ar« yet mis
creants so loft to all sense of juftiee, and the
rights and dig. ity of our country, as to
deal out the molt grof; abtife towards the
President, and the officers of adminiftratioti
and to declare that America ought to hum
ble hetfelf (till farther, before five progresses
in any fte s to maintain the trampled upon
privileges which have been her boast—and
the insulted rights of the people, which in
times past have been so noblv defended, the
| publications ofthe inftrtiftj msanddifpatchrs
however, hasbeen unattended with be
neficial effe&s ; the circuit) (lance Sis thrown
light in the paths of many who wandered
in darkm fs with refpetl to the views of the
; Frfnch towards America—hss united num
bers of the wavering, to the standard of
Government and has wrought a favorable
change 4n some who were in opposition to
the measures of adminitlration.-—But t.'.ere "
is a clafu of wretches whom no ray can en
lighten, upon whom]no truth can force con
viftion—with Whom no fait is permitted to
have i fluenee—who love vice, for its de
f'jrnifty—who hate virtue, on account of its
hrnignant and heaveniike qualities—who
are at war with order, because it checks the
scope os-villainy—who are devoted to
ganization, because it renders extensive the
| fields of licentionfnefs, injuilice and rapine :
! from such oeings nothings but evil works
can be expe&ed—they miift bs left to scorn
and contempt —or to progress till their cri
minality attainsaclimax which shall Bemand
the interference of the laws, for its punifli
ment.
It was dated a ft~rt 'ime since, that the difor
ganizers would be sadly difappointe 1 in their calcu
lations of a change in the sentiments of the people
of '..'oiinedicut. The following letter from a gen
tleman of good information in that flare, contains
f-iifls jullificatory of foi n.er rrfiilien* :
Extract of a letter from a gentlemaH in Connecti
cut, to hisfrien3 in Albany, datsd April *3.
" The few diforganizers among us have panted,
struggled, and politically expired.—With all their
exertions, aided by rheir brethren abroad, they
have not been able even to get a Jacobin into the
nomination lift, although it contains 18 ; out of
the 12 who (land hieh-ll an this lilt, 7 representa
tives to Congrtfs are to he ehofen. In the town
inhabitants of which are composed
votes, and not a JacobiiTcahdiiire was'eveTfViiftf* '
«d in the meeting—equal cnrmHpOias been their
portion in many other towns. The last year two
of that class were crouded on to the nomination
lift."
To be sure therehus been a dange in Connecticut
—bat a change which must caisfc the props of
fa&ion to hatigthsir harps upon the .willows Se
cure in their gund sense, firranefs, and attachment
to the laws, number* slept at the preceding elec
tion ; while the er ny, taking advantage of their
confidence, sowed tarts: but this 'eafou thr har
vest has liecn looked to, and the chaff blown away.
In Baltimore, the resolutions which have
beeti adopted, expressive of the public ap
probation of the condrdt of government, are
pnblifhed under the head of" the spirit
oe the timhs a spirit which God grant
may be footi manifefted from one end ot the
continent to the otWer.
Bank of the United States,
May. \slh, 1798.
NOTICE is hereby given, that previous to
the renewal of Certificates for Shares of
this Bank, which may be loft or destroyed, it
will be required in future, that a particular de
scription of the original certificates Ihopld b? ad
vertised twi 'e a week for three months in the
Newspaper called " The Gazette'of the XJnittd
" States & Philadelphia Daily Jidiertifer
informing of the loss or deftruAinn, and the in
tention of the party to apply for a renewal.
In fix calendar months after the expiration of
the advertiling as above, the New Certificates
will be issued upon the elaimants producing
proof of their having been advertised as requir
ed, together with the teflimony of tie loss or
deftruiStion, and giving the usual security to in
demnify the 3ank against any injury which may
arile from l the renewal.
By Order of the Directors,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
may 15. ia*y6w
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
Is now reacty for sale by William YoyNG,
Boukfe ler, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OF -VHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben's R-gulatioxs for the Order and Disci
pline of the Troops of the United States.— To ivbicbit
added, an afl of Ccngrefi concerning the Militia, price
50 cents ; do. large prints 67 cents.
W. YOUNGj
Has for sale, on the Uiveji terms, for cafb or ntwociahU
Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
Foolscap, P°f 1 Folio and 4 to. Pojl of various
gilt and plain ; ink porvder ,fealinjr wax, ivaftrt,pccbet %
inkjlandty black lead pencils, quillr, rulers, cafe r rf ma
thematical injlruments, gur.ter fcaL-s, parchment end aft
Jkin memorandum books, pen hiiyes t india rubber and ink %
may 12 y.j-w'yw
W. M. Diddle,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Pablic, that h:
has removed to No. 147, Chefnut Street, he
proposes to carry cn the bus ness of
A BROKER.
He will procure patents, or tranfafl ar.y other
fcufmef.in the Land Office of th'sft re, for a mode
rate commiSon.
ir.ay 14 eojjtJUST RECEIVED, J
from r o rt-a u-p rln ce,
And FOR SALE, by the SUB&CRICERS,
no hhds. Coffee n
46 tierces da.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do.
110 hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hog(heads of Molafles
4 bales of Cotton '
SL hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS Of FRANCIS,
Penn-ftrect.
march I*. _ J /
FOR SALE, ~ i
by the subscribers, No. ii, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander ? from Bengal,
ConCiJling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths I
Sanahs Guzzeydo
Humhums Charconna Dorea I
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls I
Mamoodys Checks l
Mahacagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Homals
Salpatchys Sooty do. 1
Gill lie Romals Persians of various col. I
Meek Pulicats ,
*OO tons SUGAR ,
9®,000 lb. PEPFF.R.
Willings Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious flore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
Ross tff Simsoa,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales fitperior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftas, Coflues, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
&S"""} RUM
april 10 §
LANDING ~ ~
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE 3Y THE SUBSCRIBER,
* 1600 tags prime Sugar,
1 800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
Notice is hereby Given,
TH A.T application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the sol-
Iftvving five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the British Packet, Couatefs of Leices
ter—viz. '
No.37os,cor.tiining>lhares") ItTued to Henry Ca
-3 ?C3 5 do. j zenove Nephew&Co
731 I do. issued to Edwtrds
and Co.
3188 5 do. issued (in lieu of
6509 106513) to Samuel and Henry Waddington.
1918 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and fngiis.
All persons concerned arc_.tjj£ffii~<s 'thoulh nopSe
april 14 eo6vv
Valuable Property for Sale,
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General JohnCadwalader, situate on Saffaftas Ri
ver, in Kent csunty, Maryland—containing a
hout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
fcorfes, a spacious treading floor uijder cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fiftciy. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, wiih two landings on a navi
gable river but a (hort failfrom Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the pi emifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different liind>. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole ttill b* fold together, or divided into
fmailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, confifling of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c- will also bedifpofedof. For further
particulars apply to Georo* Hastings, on the
prenvfes, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. aa\v6w
Cedar Polls, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary- j
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats drawing fix tcet water can go
this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters directed to the fubferiier at this
place, and put into any post office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Those whowifh to contrast in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gidion Hill
* Wslls, No. 135, Market-street. The fubferiber
is desirous of "contra&ing with foms responsible
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
him, on commission, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
Dagfborcngh, (late of Delaware,
april 28. »w 4 «r
Grass Lots to let.
THREE contiguous Lots of Ground, contain
ing fomethingmore than an acre, fitu'tcd in
Carpenter street, between Thu d and Fourth street,
Southwark ; to rent separately or together, for
the ye»r or longer. They are in good order and
generally produced hay for fifteen years pad.—
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling house, a garden,
well as water, and hay stables. For further in
formation, enquire at No. li, North Third street.
April 25. eodiw
-Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the belief of poor and diflrefled
prelbyterian miniflers and the poor and dillrcfled
widows and children of presbyterian miniflers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be liold
eu, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the fecood preCjj-terian church in the
city of Philadelphia, fur the dispatch of all such
bn&tialf* cs "'ay 'hen be brought before th»
hcal j. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary cf the Corporation.
Ajril 7. tawti6m
treasury department^!^
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY -
IN pursuance of the A& of Cangrefs Raffed on the Parchment and Paper", and the
iiiliety-feven, entitled "An Aft lading duties onf"Xdf.ven hundred and nbety-feven, ent.tM a
Ait palled on the fifcees . day of December, one thoufandlf by the A« enti- t
"An Ad to postpone^ 1 a limited time the commencement „ from a ,d alter the t
tied "An A-t laying !=*ies on Stamped Vellum, I archment an. -P ' m [, c levied and collec- i
firft day of July the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kinor pieceof Vellum or Parchment', or <heet ' \
written or printed any or either of the instruments er writings.ollowing , D[j C(J |Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - " „ r »„;ftrv of 5 1
Any Licence to prartice.or Certificate of the adm.ffion,enrolment er*g.ftr> oi 1
any Counfellor,Solicitor, Attoraey,Advpeate or Pro<£lor, in afiyCcur . iq f
that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States i
for one of the said Office., (hall so far is relates to the Parent o_
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Court* of the Urn.
States, foreach and every of the said offices. , .. •, j c,, te9
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United bta
(except for lands granted tor military services) -
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters p-.e , (
cept for lands granted for military services) -
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, -
Any Receipt or discharge foror on accountof anyLegacyleftby any i
ther teftameotary inftryment,or for any share or part ol a per oi.a e -
vided by force of any statute of diftrfbutinns, other than to the i •
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall le
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun-
When 1 the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - "... ,r~ c
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional Turn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrnment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vellel or
poods insured from enciiiftrid to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the iuro-tor whicTi
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 5
When the sum insured (hallexceed five hundred dollars, 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature foaver, that lhall pass the ea o ary>
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fursilh for the use ofthe United States or some particular flite, - 5°
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promillory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to of with the Unitad Statts or any state, or or t leir
use refpeflively, - - - * "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollar.,,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thouCand dollars, 50
And if, above one thousand dollars, - - ~ . " .
Pravidid, that if any bonds or notes fhaU be payable at or witbm sixty days
such bonds or notes shall be fubjeil to only two fifth parts ot the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - A
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolbi »» 10
If above siva hundred dollars and not exceeding one thouland dollars, io
If above one thousand dollars, - - " „ , -* 0
Anv Notes iflued bv the banks now efUblifhed, or that may hereafter be enao
lilhetl within the' United States, other than the not»s of such of the laid BMW
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per. centum on the ann««l di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeflively, According to
the following scale. - - " <>
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred o° llars > 5°
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - *
On all notes above five hundred dollars, -
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, - - " .*
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or lell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bpunty for military lervices
performed in the late war, - - - . *
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, fpr l«ls than
five hundred dollars, - * 1
For five hundred dollars and net exceeding two thouland. dollars,
For more, than two thousand dollars, - ' 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
K from one diftri<st to another diftriA of the United States, not baiug in the
fame State, - - " 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeils, made m any
rent or taxes, goods taken" ITI VtftW&t ny kny
Any Certificate of a Shara in any Insurance Conapany, of a share in.the Bank.of j.-
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred-dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforefaid will be collected and received by the Supervisors, Infpe&ors aud other Officers
of Infpeftion, in the fcveral Diftri<a», Surveys and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
perfens as (hall from ta time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftridts for
thatpurpofe.
The Supervifars of the fuveral Diftri&3 will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pradicahle, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infptaor, Officer of Infpe&ian,
or other psrfon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids. ,
GIF EN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year ahovmentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Mareh .iov Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every ailiftante ia their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BV SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be published every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholeiale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at BoSon, New-York, Charletton,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Loud»n, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they cart be had accurate and to
be relied on. The ratss of insurance—the price
of slocks—course of exchange, &c. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as Hi all
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertise
ments.
TJie price to fubfcri&ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
(cribers at a greater di'.lance will have it sent them
agreeable to their, dire&iohs—to pay two dollars at
the time of fubferibing, and the remainder at the'
cod of the year.
The publication lhall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conduding it.
£/■ It i" from the advice and to gratify the wi(h
of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the'
printer proposes publishing this Price Current in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
propofsd to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter asmay bp nioftunaterial tofend abroad
in the firft t\vo pages—appropriating the other tw«
to such matters a? nay be m«re immediately do
mestic, and so advutifements.
Subscriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at hisoffice in Chcfuut
ftreet, and *t the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
Fof Sale,
A CONVENIENT .veil built second hand Light
il Waggon, hung on Jack' with glaff.s and
blinds ir. the doors, vl-th or without harness.
!inquirc*of Peer L'nicrickhoul'c, Afch, below
ixth ftrett, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
■ i.. CASPAR IV. HAINES.
Bp: il %
F -efh Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, By
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiag House, No. j 4, Chefrmwftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
BoheajSoucllongjHyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflarted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
. . They have also F»f Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Carahricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ip boxes
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Willi am M'L A w.s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afTortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire it from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Eridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
aprii 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OFTHE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commissioners, for cleanfmg the
streets, &c.
Diftria rjo.i.— From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintcndance of Nicholas Hicks.
2. From the fputh fide of Mnlbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperißtendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
| 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
When pumps are out of order south of
High-street, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of Scuth and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefniit-flreet ; and north ot
High street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saflafras
ftreet, between Sixth and Ssventh-ftretts.
•aawjw
treasury department,
March 30th. 1 '
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an aft of Cengrcfs palled on the
xyth day of Marcji, following
alterations and amendments hive been made to (
the aft pjSed on the 6th day of July 17Q7, en
titled "An adl hying duties on ftampei vel- ,
« lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
pei Centum, will he allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeflors refpedively, to jny persons other
than OlEcersV the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be ftantyed, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
whieh the duties Ml amount to len Dol
lars or upwards. •
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for lUmped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each Ikm of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eacl. flu sot
Vellum of medium size, whicn may be furm !»-
ed at the expense of the United States and pro.
portionally for any letter qtjumtv.
Given under my bandy at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir above fnention^J.
y OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treajury.
' vTTN t EIDT ~ ~7
APPROVED BILLS on AmSerdam—for which
caPi will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Calhier of the Bank
0 f the United States. § april 23. —
L AN D IN G,
From on board the lhip Elizabeth, captain Pa.fl.e,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscribe*,
400,000 wt. Java COFLEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a fupefior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
epril 17.
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
H AVE FOR. SAI.E,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea aud coffee
cups and saucers
Nankeen?, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and umbrellas,
Together with a general afjortment of European
Goods— among •which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. lod. lid and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crqwley steel, Spaniih btown and white
lead
EBglilh scythes 44 to jo inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious Store in Dock-street,
No. 7, tq be let, three stories high, fuitablofor
any business. m
4th § t f
S A L 1 PEI RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subferibers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Ft/her,
No. 13, Arch Street
march 31 4tawtf
JOStTFir IVILAKDU,
OF this Gity, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ta James
C. Fiiher, Samuel W. Fiflier, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
s quested to futnifh their accounts without delay—
r and those indebted to make immediate payment to
r the Sabfcribers, a&ing Affigr.ees.
James C. & Samuel JV. Fitter.
No. 13, Arch Street.
8 march 31 4tawtf
—
r Lanal Lottery —No. 11.
, "IY7TLL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
' VV inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-llreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
D.Mir t , where check books are kept .lor register
ing and examining in t'nefe, the City of Wafliing
ton, No. ll.and Pattarfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in mot of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
> Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcohating Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November if. §
JUST RECEIVED. ~
r And for fait by W.Young, corner of Second
' and Chefmit-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. Dcbfon, 41 South Second-fireet and the
BoekfcHers generally,
, (Price 5-ikhs-of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive •
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the furrouuduig I'rofpedt—-Invocation
to the River and fylran Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fidiun discarded—Dedication to ffaft.
ington—The Aftion opens at the Retreat of the
» Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfsnification of Fortune and Fame-»
Wa(hingr.on_at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of tha Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
t tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Rofton—lts Suffer
r ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congrcfs—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic ApoP.rophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
e To It Let,
e (And polfeffion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
e 2a feet
0 and (tables, at prefeot in the tenure of Major J r.cn
'• son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
3 april 2. §
e JUST PUBLISHED,
0 AND FOR •iLE AT THIS OFFICE,
e ( Price 2S Cent' J
Reflexions on Monroe's View
or THE CONDUCT Of THE EXECUTIVE,
Aspablifhed in the
f GAZETTE of t+ie UNITED STATES,
c Under the figuature of
SCIPIO,
1 In ivbicb the Commercial Warfare of France it tmed
to the French taAionin thi.Country, (U it.- Source,
"nJ tie Mftevet Qf*ttf!tivi v lS?r.
Mafachufetts Di/lriß.
Bv Order oftfie Honorable John Lowill,
Esquire, Judge of the Diftritf Court f«Jr
the Massachusetts Diftriil,
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons
concerned," That * Eibel is filed in said
Court by Christian O. Grutzmacher, late Com
mander of the fbip Corona, of and from Haw
burgh, and Henry Andrew Hems as agents lor
the owners of said Ship, against sundry goods,,
wares and merchandize, saved fro™ * a, d to#
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within jam DiU
tria on the 16th March last—which gopds,
wares aed merchandize, were conCigßed to di
vers persons in Philadelphia, in the District or
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for the freight fa>d to be
due to the Libellants on said goods. wares and
merchandize, and for necefiary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the lame-
And that trial will be had upon the afofelaia
Libel at a Diftri& Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Maffhchufetti.'
Dated at 80/lon, slpril ) tawtf
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
| abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years
five shilling* per acre ; patented earl) in 1787, e
xcept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791 ;
part of them were surveyed in 1783* tra< &
is between the Ohio and Monongahela.. very con
venient to wat«t carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tl:" northern
bounds of Fennfylvania and the Sufquchanna
now, or late in the townlhips of Hamdeu and
Warreß and county of Warren.
I'hefe Lands, from th; it quality and fit'.ration,
are a very desirable objeft for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
q-i payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will i e given for the refi
jyg. Enquire of the Printer,
april It.
Valuable Stands for Bulineisf
FOR SALE—by the Subfcribfr,
Two Lots of Ground, »
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third flreets : —one containing
eighteen feet, and the otherfeventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
one hundred and forty-eight, mora
or lefe, to Carter's alley.
There are,-on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8s)
Which may readily be made intoone ; and, oa
Garter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given 10 the purchsfer.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
- fin ill ■■■ ■.liitinli.i miu 111 Vnnwn on apnlica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, juk.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 7.3'. fcfilSw
For Sale,
A Farm and Country Seat,
SITUATED on the well fide of the Schuylkill op
pofne to Norris-tpwn, seventeen milei from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains igs ec cs oi bnd, 50
of which are woodland, ahou*: 40 of meadow, and
the rett arable land. The house and gaiden which i*
hrge and well paled, {land in the moil ple«fant situ
ation, commanding a view of the river, an iflaad .
which isoppofite. and the village of Norris town-
There is a shad ftfhery belonging to the place.—En- v
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
oi on the premiles.
April 16 lawtf
Bafkenridge—for lale
IT conCH 9 of 92c acres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Karl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixrded'
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the-
Eatt by the river Pafa-ick.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of ncarjy three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.and|a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as alfb a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation i» abeut 18 mile*
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. HI safe to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfuut treat.
February 4. eodtf
Salisbury Estate.
THfi Subscriber, proposing to his bufr
nefs, offers this Elbte lor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ot stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acrct
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very finfr arable Land, prcducirg the be!) Hay ami
Pallure. The lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency ot the metal, which is
fupeiior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixtv-oine gun*
lately made, although some of the 04 were bored
into 32 poundeis, hate failed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
rhanufa&ure, ar.d a place ot arms lying in the Stale
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from several land"
ingj on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purposes. The pjrehafer can beaccommcdat
ed .with all theftockand utcnlilj, and have pofTeiTion
on or befoie the firft of June next, and preparation
maybe made in themeai.wmefcr goinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every par t wil 1 be delivered
in good order, with fomc coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mi'. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentii'ivts
in CongTcfsfor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
ihepremifes, or to thepropretor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3 twtt