tttt of m Unites States, AN I) Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBE* 1685 ]
' JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by WILLIAM WOODHOUSE,
No. (tj south Front street, Philadelphia,
The Young Chemist's Pocket
Companion ;
CONNECTED WITH
A PORTABLE LABORATORY:
coHTAinimct
A Pbilofophical Apparatus, and a vrtat number of Che
mical Agents ;
By which any person may perform an endless t»
ritty of amusing and inftru&ing experiments ;
itftemfnd to promfite the cikiVation of the Sci
ence of Cbemiltry,
BY' yAAitS fr-OODHOVSS, M. D".
Pioftjjsr of Cbemifiry in the University of PeritfylvA
nia } tSV.
AT fKESINT STt*T THINS THAT IS NOT DI
NOMINATED CHEMISTRY, II BftT A SMALL PART
*»T A BV3TEM or VATt'ltiH tSOWUDOI.
/ Priiflley on Air.
THE chest connected with this book is one foot
ami a) half long, one foot broad, and about the
famelcight. It confiftsof two apartments The
-upper one contains twenty twobottles filled withfhe
following tells, in as pure a Hate as pofTible.
1. Sulphuric acid
2. Nitric&eid
3. Muriatic aeid
jf. Carbonic acid
j. OxalicNicid
6. Aclohol of galls
7. Solution ot pot affi
8. Pot ash in powder
9. Ammoniac
10. Solution of the sulphate of iron
11. Solution of the sulphate of copper
12. Solution of mercury in the uitric acid '
13. Solution of silver in the nitric acid
14. Solution of corrosive fublimale
Ij. Solution of the acetate of lead
|6; Solution of arsenic
17. Solution of the muriate^Wytes
18. magiufia '
19. Lime water
20. Praffiats of lime
»I. Prufliate of pot a(h
a 2. Ammoniate of copper
The lower apartment is a drawer, in which the
philcfophical apparatus is placed, and a number of
agents folded up in paper, ai>
I. Strips of paper ftainedblue by the tin&itre
of litmus
а. Litmu» paper turned red in an acid
3. A small bag, containing genuine litmus
4. Paper, dyed yellow by tumeric
_j. Turmeric paper, turned,brown by an alkafi
б. Paper, dyed red by Brazil wood
7. Brazil wood paper, stained puYple by an al
kali
if. Zinc, in small pieces
9'. Copper, in small pieces'
10. red lead
11. Iron filings '
12. Sulphate of copper
13- Nitrate of copper (
. 14. Muriate of ammoniac
15. Acetate of lead
16 Carbonate of lime
If. Sulphur
The Apparatus consists of
I. Glass syphons
4. a blow-ptpe, of tin, copper, Or filvsf
3 1 . a magnet
4. Atl inflammable air pistol
5. a gltfs funnel
6. A roeafure for liquids
7. a small pestle and mortar 4
8. Scales awd weights
The bopk is a duodecimo of 56 pages ; contain
ing a method of performing one hundred experi
ments, the greater part of which are made in a
common wine»glafs, and many of which are the
most brilliant which occur in the fcienca of Ghe
mifiry. An explanation is given of the phenome
na which take place in each experiment, and a Am
ple manner if laid down of preparing most of the
tefl# when expended.
By of this Chemical Companion and Port
sfcrie Laboratory, gentlemen who hare not had an
opportunity of attending an experimental course
of Chcmitlry, may inftru«sl fhemfelves, and per
form, with the created cafe, the celebrated experi
ments of Frieltley, Proust, Bergman, Scheele,
Maequer, and the firft Chemists ©f the age.
January 29 * mt3ctj}t
JUST PUBLISHED
AND TO BE SOLD BY
James Humphreys,
At No. 74, North Third-Jlreet, the corner of I
Cherry-alley,
(Price one Dollar neatlv bound ar.d lettered)
An ENQUIRY into the DUTIES of the
Female Sex.
By THOMAS GISBOHNE, A. M.
The following among ethers are the principal
Snbjefts of this ufeful Work-
Female Education. Of the mode of introduc
ing foung fVaman into general Society. Female
Conversation and Epijlolary Correfpopdence. —
Dress. Amufcments. Exctfs in the pursuit of
Amusements. Employment of l ime. Consider
ations antecedent to marriage. Duties of mat
rimonial Life, •with a fie** to different Situations
and CircumJlances. Parental Duties. Duties
of the Middleperiod of Life. Duties of the De
cline of Life.
From the title ot tin: foregoing work it
may perhaps be imagined, that the Enquiry is
altogether and exflufively dire<3ed to'the duties
of the Female Sex : It therefore! may not b« un
jleceflary, or unufeful, to remark, that many of
ihe chapters contain matter relative to the con
-dufl of both sexes, and particularly those which
jelateto thedutiesof Matrimonial Life—Parental
Dutie»—Duties of the Middle Period—and of
the Decline of Life. —And the reader of either
sex that thia work with a view of gain
ing information leading to substantial plealure,
will aHi redly not be dtfappointed. In fail, it
»» a work iaterefting to the happiqefs of socie
ty, and must be ufeful wherever read i tending
dot only to point out in easy and engaging lan
guage, the paths that lead the youthful mind to
happiness and comfort, but thofe»alfo, in the
walk of which, the parent and the middle period
oflifefliall find sincere delight, and declining
years render themfefves comfortable and happy
with all around t-hem.
Philad. Jan. 19. *3t
~N~OTIC E.
ALL persons who have any <l< mands againfl
the eft at. of WILLIAM COMPTON, late
of the city of Philadelphia, deceased, are rcqucft
•*ei to furn : fi> their accounts, duly attefled. And
those wh« arc indebted to hid estate, are earoed
ly solicited Co make immediate payment, to either
01 the lobferibers.
Isaac Calbrall, ~j
John Matvohh, > Adiuiniftrator.
Samuel IVUtox. j
fauuiry *7. __ wt4w
PHILADELP H
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
faft failing Ihip
sjms~ SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gkibbin, Master,
lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—has handsome ac
commodations for pafien^ers—For freight or paf
fege apply to the Master on board, or to-
N. & J. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half .tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, MoialTes in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, See. &c
December 17 3tawtf.
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Whar—
f FOR SAL£,
58 hhdt. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe do. ic pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of cliefts
Sail Canvass, No. I, to S
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Nails aflbrted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in lihds.and cratce
Yellow oehre drv in calk# j
And atNew-York, onboard the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expelled round
as Toon as the navigation 15 open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Brown PAINTS
Parent white
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
t Ship Diana,•
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
N. B. the late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
it now changed to
NICKLIN BsT GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For Arnfterdam,
w—i The Ship
F A R M E Rj
Jo'rfN WCctllom, Master;
in a ~few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For flight of fifty tens of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftrcet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landtag, out of the said Ship, from BoHr
deauit, and For Sale,
Cla&et in hh<k.
White Wine in quarter calks
ClaWt in caA#, of a fupcrior quality
Feirtiniac,
Sautenie, > Wines in cafcs
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
novembcr 14. S
For Sale Charter,
Sjwk GOOD HOPE,
A Will carrj'about rioo barrels, and
i* ready to tak« in a cargo. For terms
Wmiii'i *"*£ apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Captain ChisWlm,
A new veflel, with excellent
1 aceommodations for passengers
Sails on the 1 oth of December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS fcj* SIMSON.
IVbt haw to d'ifptft of
A small invoice »f OLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
notrcmbcr 18. §
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Moflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadslphia,
OBSERVATIONS ,
On the Gapfcs and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fatfts and reflexions relative to
the Synochvs Ifteteides, or Yellow Fever,'which
has occasioned so much diilrefsand mortality, «t
different periods, in feveralof the
of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. *3 m §
FOR SALE, at*
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the Houle of
Repi afentative? of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
a gain ft V 5" ILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached,of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutio-n of
the Houftof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess ol Congress, and
inftruiling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
*' means, to difoover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof frhe (aid William Blount
<r (lands impeache..', and who are the partiec and
" affociatestherein "
Printed by ordfr vftbe Hwife of Representatives.
December 20 §
Hyson and Young Hylon Tea.
A few chcft? of eicsllent quality. For Sale, cor
ner of Secoud and Pint ftreet>.
December 16. eotf
By John Fenno, Nf 119 Gbejnut Street.
, War-Office of the United States,
Jtouary the I ft, 1798.
frauds have beeH pnflifed, in
V V Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the Officers and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army,' by the prt.du.aion of forgsd instruments.
To check in future such impositions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all perfor.s, having claims
for bounty lands, whether in their own as
legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any instrument
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
rtfpeilive chims to the War Office, on or before
the firft day of January 1799 iu order that such
claims may be duly examined/ adjolied and deter
minkd upon
To fubttantiatefuch claims, 1 ftri& observance of
the roles heretofore issued from tho War Office will
be indifpenf able ; and in addition to'what is requir
ed by thefaid rules, the certificate of the acknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mull
alfoTet forth the plsce of refklence, and occupation
of the claimant or person making such acknowledg
ment ; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
is by a witness or witness, jheir place or places of
refidenre must be set forth in like manner*
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y ofWar.
J a ". 1• ,d6w
" FOR SHE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No. 8, Cluinut-ftreet,
One hundred, and eighty bales
BENGAL GOOf)S,
' a
Amongst wkich are,
Gurrahs Mamo.odies
E#?tas Sannas
Gui:z nali* Tanda Coffacs
Gifezzirs Emcrtics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amortgft theni are a great proportion of the
manufa&iires of Patna.
December I. §
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the last will and teftameot of
William Hiysham, dec»afed, and pafTcf
fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
ftrecr, between Third and Fourth (beets, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ereiftcd, a(I at it, and other improvements.—
The house is 10 fact front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth at the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water aad
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in gosp repair. The flable 'fluids on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys thi perpetual privilege
of a l6feet court andan alley, S feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central poGtion and the
advantages it pofleffes with relpe<3 to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfen wilhingto poffefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Hiysham,
or f Ailing Executors.
Francis Bowes Sav'rs, j
January 11 §
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—*from London f
(Where he has studied several years under one of
the mod eminent mafttfrs in that science)
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.-—Terms, as ufuai, Six
Collars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flo\y.rs, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he nukes no additional chatge if there are. two
pupils in one family.
A line directed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, will be immediately'attended to.
January 9. §jjvv
£r s"he owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uro»), mailer, capturedJ)y
a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in lafl Dc
cember, may receive interefling information ref
pedling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
* The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United Stttes will render a service to the
concerned, by inferring the above in their newf
pspers. Jan- 3.
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAF's
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of ma«y having heen prevent
ed', from late unavoidable circumftancesftom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiue the fame to those who (pay ap
ply within fixtydays, at N®. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for thei' payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. dfict
ROSS Sff SIMSON, ~
HAVE FOR 6 ALE,
A few bales Baftas, ColTas, and
a quantify of Bengal GOTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in fcagi awl boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 caiks RICE; sad
A pared of (hip building RED CEDAR.
o<Sl. 37. J
To be Exchanged for
Briti/l 9 Germany or India Goads,
!N THE PACKAGE ;
A tratl of valuable Land I
If) Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co. |
and containing io,coo Acres. I
Inquite of the Printer. .
J>n: 15. J j
»■ ....
Philadelphia & Lancalier Turn- >
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the Prefd-nt and Managers,
this Jay, a dividend of 5 dollars per Jhare <was (
declared for the lofi half year, vihieh will be by (
them retained, f»r the payment of the debts of ,
' w he agreeable ton resolution oftbeStock- |
holders the 11th June la/1. t
TENCH FRANCIS, Treofurtr
Of the Lancnjler TumpiirCm'py. t
January 8
, The holders of the notes, accep
tances, enJorfements and other engagements
1 of Edward Fox, for account of James
j G-reenleaf, are hcrtfby notified, that Wed
nesday, the 14th February next, is the taft
, day, on which they cars admit fubferiptions
s to the fund assigned to them for the pay
s racnt ef said engagements ; and that those
' holders, whrf dp not on or before that day
, ! make their filbfcriplions, will be excluded
from the benefit thereof.
Henry Pratt,
T. IV. Francis,
John Miller, jun.
John Ajhley,
Jacob Baker.
Jan. 29. dtf
INT H£ "PRESS,
, And speedily will be Publi/bed,
A PLAN
for eftabliffiing a general MARINE SOCIETY,
and Syftemvof Regulation* therein-:
\ Written at Sea, in the year 17 94 :
Now printed for the benefit of that Institution,
BY THE* AUTHOR*
* A navy would be maintained but'toan almctfl
useless purpefe which taking the feamsn kept the
merchantm«n idle in port, and trading velTtls
would be as unprofitably employed, if they took
all those feimen of fk.ll and courage on beard ships
of war, would give them pr tedlion and secure
their faTety. We have enough for b«th purposes,
and the cultivating hand of attention alone is want--
ifcg to multiply their number. " Money niay buy
" all naval (lores, except mariners; but, unless a
" supply of them it preserved, no wealth will be
" able to procure them."
January 30. §
Surveyor General's Office.
December 2, 179?.
ON a release of survey of 453 acres, 6* perches
of .land, fiiuatd in lower Smithficld townfkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warraut of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
Thisland claimed by h»irs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Efij. Surveyor Gene
ral—Wjlliam Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the above caveat, or any
others interested or concerntd therein, they having
at leaf! thirty days notice far John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January 16 §tiF2wtm
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlrcet, near Fifth.
January 29' diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
To be had at a moderate price—Enquire at
No. 138, Arch-street.
J»". »7- daw
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their infpec
tionfince December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will durrng the present month remain
open at his Countiag4ioufe in Chefnut Street for
their further invefligation uijd fcrut-ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ill 1795.
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom it may interest or con
cern, thac the Judges of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the twenty-fixih day of
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, op the fubjedf of his peti
tion for die benefit of the lafolvent Law—and
that their attendance is desired. ,
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. eot26thF
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the' renewal of a Certificate of a Sh«r«
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B N0..5904, dated July 11, 1797? the fame
having«been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. §6w
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met wirh a liberal patronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to ilTue proposal*
for printing by fubferiptiow, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, froth their fir# meeting iu 1775,t0
the present time.
This work fliall be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose; and en good paper. It
will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o&a
---vo) in 6 vols.—eafh to l.e paid on deliv-*y
It isneedlcfsto fay any thing of the merits of
! this undertaking—the fcar£ity of the Journals
throughout the United States, is fufficknt to jufti
fy th« printer in hifc hop's of meeting with that
success, which he i« certain the eriterprize dfferves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. d 6t
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
ths estate of WillaM Flfewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, dc
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and thoft who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to »
January 4. dtf
All Persons
Having any demands aga : nft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are reqntfted to
bring iH their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
Hcited to make immediate payment to
#*.3ARAH IRWIN, Adminiftrajrix.
Nov. 19 1797- '. 4
To be fold,
A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SV.AT, contain
x\. ing 6 acres and 40perches, with a neat two
story bticU Moult and Kitchen thereon, an -pple
Orchard, &c. situate owthe Irish trail lane, in the
townlhip of Moyameufing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon thi* place, for.tafte and
elegance, ttand unrivulled.
December 1. dtf
CONGRESS.
I ■ HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Delate in Fdrdgn Intercuurfe.
s from ycllerday's Gazette.]
THVKSDAI JANUARY ZC.
t f Mr. Nicholas's Speech fr«nt yrfierJay'j
j Gazette.)
] He said he was sorry to fee under tlic neeffity
of replying t» lame reflexions which had bee:;
caff upbn oUrlate minister io France. Gentle
men had not Uated that business (airly. It was
neeeflary at the time that this gentleman wa*
lent ti> France, to fend i nianofhis political chi
caner. This conduct was forced upon the exe
cutive. He believed an offer of the embafly
was made to one gentleman who refilled it, al
igning far a rcafon to his fiicnds, that he was
convinced, that whoever accepted of the office,
muff be made a facrilijce of,'as he would he re
called whenever the situation of things fljould
be such as to allow of-it. He w*s fon-y, when
' our late minister to France hats laid before the
public »il the offic al documents w'hich lad
ed betwixt him and the two governments, that
t'critlemen should think it neecefiary to make in
t finuations against him. The public, who was
in poffeffit/ii OfTiis bt><,k, WtitiM how'evcT judge
. for themselves. But !f a decliraiioh was to be
mide on (Uis h« declared it as his opin
t ion, that peace with the French republic mighft
have been ferured, but that the executive hail
) wantonly cast it from us. With rtfpefi to iii
finuations w'hich had been thrown wut against
• the private charaifleV of that gentlemen, he
i (hould not notice then! ; but if any ihartje
: should be brought against him, let it be public
ly made, arid he had no doubt it would be an
fuer.d.
He would not have detained the committee
longer, Mr. N. said, but i' he did sot lay before
them some additional observations, they would
not be in full of his sentiments on this
fubjeiS. If he could (hew that there existed a
, description of persons in this ecuntry attached
by interest to the executive, who formed a kind
of a ftandingarmy more powe'rful than if thty
had guns in their hands, by being spread over
the community, it wculd afford one of the
strongest reasons for guarding against executive
patronage. He should, therefore, make a few
remarks on the origin of party in this country.
In speaking of the public debt, he trulted it
w6uld not be thought that he had any intention
offhaking its credit. He had been five years
in Cengrefs, and never done any thing which
had this tendency ; but he miift speak of the
creation of that debt. And when the political
rharadter of the fifcal operator was cocfidered,
it was probable that the scheme was intended
to produce a party in the United States who
would support the executive at all events. —
For this purpose all government paper wa»fund
ed at its nominal value ; and this was done fa __
that it CQuld be purchafcd up for a mere trifle,
before, the people could hear of the provision, so
that the class of mtu referred to, in a moment
made immense fortunes. The natural influence
of their magic fortunes was to attach them to
the perfbns who hsd created Aem, and to pro
duce a desire for (hose political inftuutiont,
which in other conntries, had been found most
fuccefsful in securing that kind of property.—
What was the effe.fl ? Scarcely one among the
fuccefsful speculators was to be feund, who did
not range himfeif on the fide of the executive,
and who did not become the advocate of the
strongest executive p6wer.
The influence of thofefpeculations in produc
ing a scries of othes, down to the present time,
is well known : we are every day experiencing
their effefls in the morals and happiness »f the
country ; their influeric» on the politics of the
country is no less discoverable, for vtrv few are
the instances, where men have been drawn info
the pr*.£lice of fpeeuUtion, in which it will not
be found that they are equally the disciples of
the politics of their infirudlors, and of their arts
of making money.
Another class of men had been conneiSed with
the executive by the force of opinion and parti
cular circumstances from whom it derived great'
llrength ; he meant the perfonsjwho Lad been
d faffe&ed to our revolution. These men, gen
erally, felt a leaning-to this government, on ac
count of their dislike oftheold.and on account
of itsapproachtothcirfavorite model—hedidnot
mean to blame them for that, but merely to
trice the connexion. He himfeif had been the
firm friend-of the constitution, and would
vote for it again if it was in question. At the
dawn of our disputes with France, most ef these
1 erfons were attached to the executive by their
sympathy in the apparent animoflty towards
her, and in the progress of it, the conformity of
sentiment has been ftrengthsned, and thev Itand
among the foremoft of the patriots ef the pre
ftnt day.
He jiad mensioned these two classes of persons
far the reasons before assigned, and becaufc we
were entertained very| much about American
sentiment ar,d American character. It was not
to be doubted, that they myft have had great
influence in forming what they had so much in
fluence in supporting, and he believed it would
be fufficierit to examine its origin, to juflify gen
tlemen from the censure of riot partaking in it.
He had mentioned them for another reafori ;
aryi that was, that men, who were not ifhamed
of their political aflociates, difesvered great re*
pugnance to all perlens among their opponents,
who were even born in another country. So
far as it refpetfs a particular gentleman in that
house, he was sure, from him, such iafinuatiom
met with the contempt which every honest man
would feel, when they were pointed at him ;
he was also sure, that candid and enlightened
men would consider them as acknowledgments
of a fuperierity which waserery day evinced;
but he did not know but that they might ope
rate differently on part of the community, and
therefore he thought it necessary to notice them.
Let it be teld,tu the public, that he has resided in
this country nineteen years ; that he came to it
during the revolutionary was, at the age of
nineteen, and that all his habits have been form
ed among us that by his own induflry he has
acquired independence, and that he has fennel
the most endearnjg ties here:—Let gentlemen
fay, too, that he was born in a country whsrt
liberty was well understood, and where, at the
fane time, the utmost order m*vailed ; and
that in his own time, his countrfexhibited the
strongest and most affeifling projfaof patriotism
and lave of liberty, in a ilruggle with that very
country, to which, from tliecircumftanae of hi:
beinga foreigner,he ischirged with fubmiffion—
and he may beperteflly indifferent to the at-,
tack. II ca'uniny docs no- flop here, but pro
ceeds as it fjisuiaic io**, he believed, to charge
[VCZ.OMB XIIIHim with a wutieipatinn in an unfortunate oc- ft
eurrrnce in thit (the wefterrr infurrec- b
r-otl) Mr. N. lia.l oftly to refer t» a statement *
of fails niair l*i that gentlrwan in the legilla-. B
ture r»f 1 runfy'vania, and afterwards published, _
and whii h had never yet reseived an an-
fwer, not only for his juftifieation, but to enti-
tie h : ra to the credit for fuperiwr ufefulnefs in
quieting the didurbance. Mr. N. said he felt
it necessary to fay what he ha J d«ne with refpeif\
to hi) friend from Pennsylvania ; if he had not j
done it, and had fat silently to heir the (landera t
So frequently thrown out againll him, he &ou.d (
have felt himfelf i» aeceffary in the Ihameful il
liberality.
He concluded by faying that from the sentiments
which had fallen ftom the gentleman from South Ca
rol iua (Mr. Pinckoev) he hoped, that convinc
ed with, him, that foreign ministers were rither dao
gerousthsn fervieeable, he hoped he would on tome
future occaflon (as he himfelf did not expeft l"»g <0
ha»e a ftat in that hou'e) bri«g fotwa d a motion for
away all oar foreign intercourse His present
•b>je£t was, however, what he had lU ! ed it to be. He
hoped he (K uIA not oow be cinftdcred as aa enemy
ts republicanism. He might be charged with intro
ducing a motion which might be mifchii-vous ; he I
Hid ootin'end it to have anv f«ch effefl. He believ
ed this was the proper time to do the hufinefs He
was convinced there wa» no danger of an tnvan«n or
thit country ; if there were, he believed every !
i* the country (he would fpealt for himfelf at lea J ,
would be ready to refill it. With rclpefi to a S grem- :
00, he might not be so ready to attack as fo™® °'. r
gentlemen ; but nothing could be considered by htm
i« eompet tion with the fecurityjand independence ot
his country. t .
The committee rose, and had leave to fit ifesm.
Adjourned.
Tx 1 day, Jjnuary «6
'The house having again resolved iifelf into
a committee of the whole, on the bill pro
viding the means of Foreign intereourfe,
and Mr. Nicholas's amendment being un
der consideration.
Mr. Goodrich obferred, that in support ef
th» motion, the competency of the house to fix
our diplomatic intercourse, in refpeft to the
number, and grade of our aainifters, was aflcrt
ed, as well as the policy of the particular ar
rapgcineht contemplatecTby the amendment.
On the firft of these queflions he would make
but a few remarka. It required a clsfenefs of
reasoning tedious in debate, and a pracifion of
exprelCon difficult to attain ; it was coo a theo
ry upon which gentlemen formed their opinion,
father from the general cast of political senti
ment with which they had been accußomet! to
vien the executive pawer, than from fair invelti
gation and argument. The claim was deduce 1
from these fou«es, the power the house hid of
creating offices, frotn the exercise of its power in
appropriating money, aad fixing lalaries.
With refpe.t to the firft, the office of foreign
ahimfter was created by the constitution itfelf,
and the appointment was confided to the presi
dent and fen ate, and if he was nofmuch
fiktn, when the memorable queftioo of appro
priajion was formerly utideroi cuffion, itwas not
pretended thitthe house had any pow«r to inter
fere direflly or indirefllyinr-fpei-'ltothe inftitut
jng.ir Ptanaj.'i'.ir foreign negociStion»,orconduiS
ii.g our external relation-!. Such right was then
difciai-ned. The powaVoß thepart ofthe house
tn inflnute theoffice of minister, had been only
jio-v cufforily glanced at, without being much
infilled cn.
Jt wou'.d Botcfcipe the a:t«ntion ofthe com
initice, that the right of receiving and accredits
ing foreign ministers was veiled solely in the
president. This right was so intimately blended
with that of appointing and fending ministers a
broad, that in pi;aflice they could not be well
For their due exercise bdth mull
in hands. It was a principle
known to be eflaSifhed among nations at the
adoprion of th» constitution, that ministers of a
Correspondent grade should be sent from each
refpe<3ive nation, flow is this rule to be ob
ferv ed, if thelioufe has in any way directly-or
a power, to fix our diplomatic eflah
(i&ment, as to the rank of our ministers. N6
mode seems to haare been contemplated by which
the executive and the legislature are to afl in un -
son. And oftes it may so happen that the in
»er*fts of onr country, its peace and fccur,ity may
depend 011 a more prompt determination, than
is confident with the recess of the legislature or
its 'ieliberative forms- These considerations, if
any additional onetr are necessary, confirm the
d*d)rine of the power of appointing and fending
foreign ministers being exclusively veiled in the
president, vvith the advice and confcnt of the fe
»«e.
The rig't of determining on the number and
grade of mjnifiers by means of the power of
withholding appropriations is urged. Here all
that could be said had already been often re
peated, and if it had not been f e!t by the moral
finfe, there was little hope from arguments ad
dr«fl'ed to the und*rllandi«g. The president as
the executive agent of our nation was authorised
with the confcnt of the fenateto appoint minis
ters. The appointment and service created a
debt againit the United States, which as there
prefentatives of the states they were under a mo
ral obligation to acknowledge and pay. In pri
va'e life, if an individual employed another in
his service, or his authorised agent so employed
him, the debt incurred could not honestly be de
nied, or psyment avoided. The tribunils of
justice we inftitvte tyiforte it as a debt ; good
faith and jnftice demand of us to pay for fervic
es.conllitutionaHy contracted for, and our con
ferences, he trufled, would always prove afuffi
cient tribunal to induce a fulfillment of the ob
ligations of good faith and juftic.
But it was said, if the end could not be attain
ed by refufinir an appropriation, it could cer
tainly be effected by the power of the ho%fe to
t-.x salaries. No oae denied the right of the
house, with a vitn to certainty and economy, to
£x the lalaries of diplomatic agents. But on
what principle were these salaries to be fixed.
If on any other, except those of equitable and
honorable reward, it would be dirty ceconnmy—
it would bs descending to do, by chicanery and
uibterluge, what the house could not effect in a
ny other way, and which would he doing what
the constitution netrr could have intended. He
ftould however dismiss this fubjefl, and the
note cbearfully, as there were ether grounds up
on which the quefiion might be placed that
would not meet with so decided a predeteripi
natien in the minds of many g«ntlei*en.
Jt mufl have occarrcd to every member of the
committee, that the bill was limitsd te two years
iji its duration. The nature of the amendment
was » limitation upsn a limitation, as avowed by
the mover, by curtailing alter one year a part of
our diplomatic intercourse. Was this done on the
ground of faring expense f This was disavowed,
as it was seen to befa matter of small moment.
Indeed it was dsubtful with hiin, whether any
thing would be fared, or not, as ic was certain
\ tfest aur ministers plenipotentiary would lot ac
cept the ofKcet of mfaifters reSdent with half their
present salary ; of caurfe new appsintmenrs must
r< rnide, and the expeo'e of frefh o«Hct> incurr
ed. Mr. 9. also complained, on the Came ground
ai before Oated, ef the injultice of recalling our
prefrnt miniftt rs. He also thought it bad policy ;
as where a government like ours wanted all the
virtae and talents of its citizens for public office*,
it would be found difficult to obtain them if so
m irii Ujici.i'ainty was given tn the duration of
eff.ccr, which had all the appearance of j>troia
nency. It would aw-ange our affair* a- f
broad, om!:arrafs thehAfinefsof the executive, and r
wantonly interfere with the viaws of that depart- j
meat which it might mar and 11 y praltrave.
Some gentlemen had imagined, that these miu- '
iilers -were unneteflary at the courts to which they I
were font. la answer to thii, he should alledge, ]
the house did not information fufficent to
determine this point, apd it might be uafafe to be
communicated to them. But was there no reason
for having a mnulttr plenipotentiary at Spain ? '
No gentleman would fay so. was therano !
reafou for such an agent at Lithon ? Was not this
the center of communication with ti our
affairs with the Barbary powers. Uut w:iat fer
yice it was afced, could a minister at Hrrlin ren
der to this country ? \i a time when the affairs of
Europe are ditlurbed as at present, when our Ctu
ation with France is such that uo minittcr of ours
will be received in ihat country, rtafonsof a very
important nature may fugged themf.lves, why an
able and faithful mimlter (hould be placed at the
court of Prullia. Arguments of a more general
nature were introduced in favor,of the amendment.
It wab said to be the filtered of this coun
try to annul all our Foreign Political Inter
course. They might, he said", (peculate up
on this fubj«A ; but they had not the pow
•er to decide upon it; for Political Iwter
! cuurfe did not depend upon our fending Mi
nisters abroad. It m'ght be carried 011 by
i Foreign Ministers sent here ; and the confti
-1 tution (as he had before dated) (hewed they
could not prevent this, as it expressly made
it the duty of the Pieddent to receive Fo
reign Ministers ; and, in this cafe, there
would be no call upon the house for the e
ftablilhment and support of Ministers, as
they would be supported by their own coun
' try ; and though it was true, that Foreign
1 Ministers were not usually sent to a country
' without a return of men of the fame grade
, to the country from which thev were sent,
yet he introduced this position, to (hew that
it was not in the power of the house to fay
whether this country (hould have Foreign
political Intercourse, or not.
But if the committee mult speculate upon
this queltion, there were other confiderati
oas which would lead them to a doubt that
it would be proper to abandon all Fofeign
Political Intercourse. It was a sentiment
advocated by the gentleman from Pennfyl
, varna, that we ought to have no political Fo
■ reign relations. That gentleman prided
himlelf in being of peculiar sentiments, but
on this occalion he was not so It had long
1 been the sentiment of this country. It was
a sentiment introduced into all our treaties
( but one, and it would be found in the fare
. well address of the late President of the U
nited States. Mr. G. presumed therefore,
■ when our diplomatic intercourse was eftab
c lilhcd by the late President (and he eftablilh
ed it as it is) he felt the force of this senti
ment as strongly as the gentleman from Penn
, fylvania But though the gentleman from
> S. Carolina (Mr. Pinckney) who had him
r j felf been employed abroad, had given it as
1 his opinion that this country would be bet
ter without miiiifters abroad, yet, though
he acknowledged the weight of this autho-
J rity, when he found the late President, who
j bad the best opportunity of forming ajudg
- ipeiit upon the fubjeft, from sage experi
ence, had appointed thefeminifters, he was
' led to doubt though he was fenCbie foroe e
e vils had arisen from foreign ministers redding
a in this country, as well as from fomt of our
j ministers abroad, whether they might not
. be too hasty in deciding upon this national
r queflion. Admitting that it was not for
- the interest of this country to have any fo
-5 reign political relations, he a(ked gentleman
1 what they Hleant by this? They (null mean
that fort of compa£l with foreign nations,
y which was called a Treaty of Alliance de
i fenfive and offenGve. With a foreign rela
r tion of this kind we had nothing to do,and
f he hoped never (hould have. Butwhatcon
c neftlon was there between this fubjett and
the present amendment? Because we deter
mined to have no political relation with fo
reign countries, were we to have no politi
i cal ageßts? Surely we ought, since they
f may be the means of preventing the necessity
' of these political foreign relations.
But before it w is determined whetker it
would be proper to have anypolitical foreign
s intercourse, he would enquire what was the
1 effedt produced by foreign ministers in our
'- country, and by ours when abroad. He
» acknowledged that produced by ministers
" sent to this country was not a very agreea
ble one ; it was not such an one as to encou
, rage us, or to flatter us. But from what
j cause had this arifan ; it arose out of the
- (late of the times ; from the situation of
f public sentiment in this country? If any
thing could leave a doubt on this fubjedl, it
would be'the effeft of the diplomatic agents
| in this country. He had doubted whether
_ it was expedient to admit them; for though
these public agents ought only to have cor
- responded with the President of the United
- States; yet, when they were thwarted in
5 their views, they had made their
e appeals to the people. Nor would he ex
cept the ministers of the two great Europe
an rival powers ; the condutt of all had been
1 far different from what it ought to have been
- and inftcad of supporting the dignified cha
i rafter of diplomatic agents, aflerting the in
terests of their own country, and conciliat
j ing the favor and affeftion of ours, they
e hate departed from this line of conduft, aud
observing the existence of two parties in this
it country, they have endeavoured to operate
i- upon the people. But it was true we had
no reason to objedl to foreign ministers on
e this ground as the good sense of the people
t had uniformly refilled their address, and all
y their proje&s had been fruftrated.
'f But what effects, he alked, had our agents
® | produced abroad? Undoubtedly their in
'' ftruCtions have uniformly been to represent
y to foreign countries the interests and views
i of our own. And was it not to be fttppof
- ed, that persons going from this country,
to foreign countries, would feel an attach
ment to their own, and that, they would
d make the mod of its interests? Calculating
r from what we know of human nature, this
; nuift be the cafe. It was tree, a minister
e might conduct himfelf so as to injnre, instead
J of serving the country by which he was eu>-
/ ployed. He might raifeexpeftatiuns whick
- his country could never gratify. He might
propo£e to afford a Foreign nation such a ( I:
succour as his country coi.lil not supply. h
If this wefe to be dont, it would be regrett- j
ed ; but" becatife an inititution might pofli- g
bly be abused, it was no argument for its ( t
bting annihilated. j t
Suppose, said he, opr foreign intercourse , 1
were to be broken up, what would be the t
c®iifequencc? We mull, then, when we >
have any business to fettle with a foreign na- i
turn, employ envoys extraordinary, which j
would be employing men of a higher grade 1
of charaftcr, and if public ministers were i
to be considered as full of mifebitf, it might <
be attended with greater evils than the grade i
we now employ. But it was said the bufi- !
ness of the country with foreign nations
might be managed by consuls; but, as had
been observed, these charafterß were not ad
mitted at foreign courts, if they were in o
ther refpefts fit for the bofinefs, which he
did nor believe they were. Besides, if no
accredited agents were employed betwixt fo
reign nations, spies andemiflaries would take
theirplace; asgovernment3 would be inform
ed, in one way or other, of what was going
on in every country with which they had a
ny connexion.
And if a resolution was taken in this
country to have no diplomatic agents abroad
in what situation would the executive of this
country be placed? He is entrusted with
the foreign relations of the country, but he
would have no foreign minister. He mull,
therefore defcendto thefame low means with
Other nations, and depend upon spies for in
formation; and when he got this informa
tion it would not be from authority, and
therefore such as he could not communicate
to the legislature. Gentlemen, he fuppof
l ed, would not be willing to put the business
upon this footing. He acknowledged that
the employment of foreign miuifters was at
tended with some inconveinence; but it was
seen there were evils on both fides, and it
was for government tp balance between
them.'
But it was apprehended, these ministers
would join the political parties of the coun
tries to which they were sent. On the con
trary, he should suppose they would carry
with them the feelings of their own conn
try and communicate them ; but if this
were to he dreaded, Would it not be mofl
likely to happen in the two countries that
were excepted from this amendment ? For !
where, he asked, were the points on which
the great affairs of the nations of Europe
turn, but in London and Paris ? If there
were danger of this kind, it must, there
fore, be at those places.
Bat it was said that wars were generally
produced by foreign ministers. That this
may have been the cafe, in some instances,
he did not doubt ; but speaking in general,
it was attributing too great effefts to too
trifling causes. The causes of war, he said,
were in.the passions and animosities of na
tions. Our own country had been agitated
in a manner which could scarcely have been
imagined, from its remote situation. by its
partiality for one nation and its enmity to
another. When Contemplating this fubjuft
therefore, the committee ought not too haf
t tily to decide. The intention of foreign
1 intercourse was to promote peace and amity
r —it had long been the "praftice of the civil
. ized world. If some of our minifies had
! caught the passions of the country to which
, they were sent, and we had not been whol
t ly able to avert the storm which seems to
. threaten us—a storm which appears to be
. bearing away all the aneient land-marks of
1 the earth, yet, he believed, upon the
. whole, that our foreign ministers had done
I great and permanent good to this country.
Instead of bringing forward a fubjeft of
this kind at this time, the legislature ought
. to be united in support of the executive of
f the country ; for from whatever eaufe oar
f misfortunes arise, whether from our own
mifconduft, or the tinreafonable dominatiftn
t of a foreign power, they did not originate
t under the present administration, and there
• fore, the difficult situation in which tjnr
r chief magistrate was placed, required all
: the support which the legislature couldgive
s him. If the geatleman who moved this a
- mendment, had, however, introduced it
- unaccompanied with the refieftions which
t he had made ufa of, it might have been a
: fubjeft well worthy of consideration. This
f he had not thought proper to do. Topics
j of a lingular nature had been brought for
t ward. It had been said, that all republi
s can governments had a tendency towards
r despotic power ; that the power of appoint
i ment to office placed in the President had
- been basely prollituted ; that the doftrine
1 of favoritifm had been introduced, and per
l sons of a particular charafter were only ap
r pointed to office, aud that this determina
- tion was likely to produce, or had produ
ced, dangerous operations on the talents
i and abilities of the .'egiflature. When char
l gesof so serious a nature were/brought for
- ward,, it became necessary to repel them.
- He was sensible the fubjeft was painful.
- The weapons of felf-juftification of govern
( ment, became, 'in some measure, weapons
1 of attack, and few had the judgment to
s use them rightly If the charges were
: true, what were the constituted authorities
1 of the country ? The accusation impeach
i es the purity of the executive, the purity
: of the house of representatives, and lays
1 prostrate all the authorities of the country ;
and, instead of securing to them that love
s and refpeft which every friend of his coun
- try must wish to poflefs, they must
t become objefts of abhorrence.
3 But the gentleman from Virginia declares
this is a theatre, on which he will speak,
, and that this is a fubjeft upon which he will
- dwell; from this house an alarm is to be
1 communicated to the people out of drors.
r This is a temple Aom which is to be preach
s ed, not the mor<i| virtues of peace, charity
r and brotherly lore," wh'ch are preach d
1 from other temples, but the fubjeft is to be
- the purity of own conduft,
i the orthodoxy of his own political faith
t and opinions of his friends, and thepo-
Ikical hertzes, and political corruptions of I
his opp»nent«. 1
He thought this must be a fubje-A-of re- <
gret to the gentleman'* frien-ds ; for »when ]
tliis habit of preaching was once begun,
the love of it would increase, and though I
he preached in the mod elegant and har
monious manner, the virtues of his friends
would die in the melody of his accents. For
it will be asked, what occasion for this
preaching? I-s political sense and virtue of
that nature that it seeks thus to be extoll
ed ? Sterling worth retires ; it does not be- ,
come its' own trumpeter. It will not,
therefore, be a fubjeit of regvet to hi« op
ponents ; for if he "preaches much, and in
the manner in which he preached yesterday,
he will do them but little harm. The fub
jeft when oft-en dwelt upon will have no
weight ot- credit. There had beru much
preaching of this kind both in church and
state. It might for a time do temporary
inifchief ; but its effefts were transient. He
would, therefore, have dropped the fubjeft
had not the (lander of this gentleman been
too much supported by others.
It was said to be the tendency of all go
vernments to come to despotism ; that true
it was, our government was tolerably pure;
it had dabbled in corruption, but dabbled a
little. And by whom was this said ? For
the name which said this, ought to be a
proud name indeed ; it ought to be distin
guished not only by brilliant public services,
but for a p*euliar disinterestedness of char
after ; to have something around it which
effeftually shielded it from suspicion. By
whom then, has it been said ? What arro
gant and proud pretence had led men to
speak in this manner r What had entitled
them to this high tone ? Eminent talents,
all knew they poffefled. But did mere em
inence of talents entitle men to this right ?
He asked how these talents had been em
ployed ? In great and national service ? In
fixing the independence and freedom'of the
country ? Have they aided in establishing
the great outlines and measures of govern
ment ? Have they assisted in building up the
government, with special interest to the
happmefs of the country ? They do not
pretend this. Not that they have done any
thing for the happinefsof the country, but
in opposition to it. . It would be invidious
to enter into a comparison betwixt the two
characters. But let the gentlemen go *o
the page of history, and what do they find
there ? Had the mere declaimer againlt go
vernment and its abuses, an enviable rank
: on that page ? No. Let me not, said Mr.
G. be misunderstood. Immortal honor is
due, and will be given, to men who have re
filled the afts of tyranny and oppression.
i Such a man was Hampden ; such a [man
i was Sidney. But a mere declaimer ranked
, not with these men ; nor did he rank with
> those who have been the benefaftors of man
, kind by establishing eminent -civil institu
tions. Yet, in that house, gentlemen claim
I ed as a right, upon this mere ground, to
i speak, and when they pleased, of the im
s aginary abuses aud corruption? of govern
> meat. '
t Mr. G. asked, what were these abuses ?
- They were said »o arise from executive pa
i tronage. Let the gentleman from Virginia
r go to his state, and the gentleman from
- Pennsylvania to his. Either was an extent
I of country, which, in the old world, would
1 form an empire. What were the officers
- under the executive ? A single judge in the
> judiciary department, a marshal and a few
: deputies, a fuptrvifor and ibme collectors,
f And though this is an epitome of the whole
;! of our country, yet, in the view of the gen
: i tlcman who support this amendment this
j patronage is alarming'and deftruftive !
f Let the gentleman fromPennfylvanialook
t at the supreme executive of that state, and
f he would find a much more numerous lift of
r of officers ; and rf not of a grade so high,
i j yet of a grade at least equally capable of
i j oppression. And was it a fubjeft of popu
; lar declamation that the governor of that
. state was bearing down the government by
r meajis of his patronage ? No. The fubjeft
I was not heard ir. the legislature of thatftate,
: the cry and clamour were only here.
But it was said, that this patronage or
t power of appointment had been basely prof
i tituted, by felefting eminent characters from
i that house for office ? He asked gentleman
5 how many men had been chosen from the
s legislature for office, since thethecommence
- ment of government ? But few indeed. He
. asked farther, if there was any thing in the
s constitution, which declared that members
- of the legislature should not be appointed
i to office; and if not, how it happened'that
t at this period they wfcre growing wiser than
. the framers of our constitution, with r«f
- psft to human nature ? If the doftrine of
gentlemen wat true, which was to ptevent
- this patronage, no officer ought to be ap
s pointed from the Legislature. Would this
. cure the evil ? If human nature be so cor
. rupt as they think it is, have not the mem
. bers of the legislature friends ? And if they
. were capable of being influenced by these
- appointments, the influence might be as
s llrong if their friends were appointed. This
3 doftrine therefore not only went to ostracise
e the members of the legislature, but their
s families and friends.
But it was pretended that the doftrine of
■f Favouritifra had been adopted, and that on
s . lyonedefcriptionofmcn was appointed to of
; sice* He thought there was a great want of
: order iti gentleman who firtt brought for
- ward this fubjet. It was a fubjeft upon
t which it was difficultand indelicate to speak.
The doftrine had been allowed without au
s thority, for the Prcfident of the United
, ..States had not allowed that he had formed
II any such determination as had been attribu
e ted to him ; but if he had determined to
i. feleft to office only thofc persons who had
- evinced, by their manners, an attachment
y to the constitution of their country, and to
i those measures which had been fanftioned
e by the legislature and himfelf, he thought
, be had adopted a right principle. He did
i not think the Prefioent had resolved to ap
point'no man to office, except ht were «f
hi* own particular fentimetits, though he
might have determined not to make choice
of any man who had tnanifcfted uuifiorm ©p
pofition TO all the meafares of government-
He asked what measure had been taken by
the executive, which had not been fan&ioa
by all the constituted authorities, and, -in
a less formal manner, by the people them
selves, and in some cases, by votes of the
State Legislatures.
But he asked against whom these fehargae
of venalityand corruption were made f They
were brought against the executive of this
country. And what was this executive I
Gentlemen seemed to consider it as a fort of
Leviathan or. which was always to
be goaded and probed with a tboufand
wounds for its venal propensities ; tho* for
some of its geod qualities, it must be kept
alive in torture and chains.
The duties of the executive were to pre
serve the powers of the country, to vindi
cate its rights; to prote6l its sovereignty,
to execute the public will exprcfled through
the laws. Rob it of one of these powers,
and you destroy the most valuable part of
the government —depress it, and you only
do it for a short time. It will rife, on the
affedtions and favomr of the people, witti
new life and vigour. Indeed, these attempts
against the executive, were calculated to
produce a much more strong and powerful
executive than we now have.
J '1 be remainder -as this fpeecb to-morrow.J
Thursday, February i.
Mr. N. Frepman presented the petition of Si!e»
nus DoweSl, of Yarmouth owner oj several fchooii
. ers employed in the cod fifheiy, praviwgfor an allfcw
ance of bounty, of which he wa* deprived from the
deftru&ion by fire of the agreements between bim
and the rerfons employed.
Mr. W dsworth prefnted a petition from Eli
(ba Gardner and others, praying for redress on ac
cou»t of forfeiru'es incurred by eWrters of vefFels.
Both these petition* were referred to the committee of
commerce and manufv.&ures.
Mr. Vin able said, he was dire£lcd by the com
mittee of privileges, to inform the houie, that the
chairman of that committee (Mj*. Pinckjiey) was yes
terday taken ill, and was unable to attend 10 the bu
siness referred to them ; that the committee had this
morning received a note from Mr. P. ftatir.g, that he
was Hill too much tq attend to bufineft;
they therefore wilhr.d him to aflt for the appointment
of another member in his place.
The motion being agreed to,
The SrfAKSR named M\ Rutledgi.
Mr jVenable thenaddecf, that he was also re
queued to aik leave of the Hoofe to fit during the bufi
oefs hours.
Leave was granted.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of claims,
nvde an unfavorable report on the petitions of john
Gray, Robert Leonard, and others, who pray foj an
increase of their pension*. The report was concur
red in.
Mr. Gordon presented a petition from the attor
ney of Jean Biptifte Dumont, for redress on account
of loss fuffered by depreciated paper of the Otiiied
States. He moved that it (hould be referred to the
committee of claims ; but upon the chairman of that
committee Rating that this eafc had already been sev
eral times decided upon, the motion was negatived.
Tbe Speaker having informed the Houle that the
bufmefs next in order was the bill providing the means
of intcrcourfc with foreign nations,
Mr. Gallatin prdpofed that the fubjeft be post
poned 'till to-morrow.
, Mr. Thatcher said, as it was poftble the Com
mittee of Privileges might not report to-morrow, he
would move "that the bufinds in qiaeftion be poftpoued
\ill Monday. Agreed.
Ou ( moti«>ii of Mr.- Gregg, the House resolved itfelT
> into a Committee of the Whole in order to take up
tbe report ot the committee of claims on the petition
of Oliver Pollock, Ktr. Baldwiniu the chair.
i The report was read, hiter Hating a variety of
i charges for fcrvices, done the United States, whieh
the'eommittee think ought not to be allowed, it is rr
' commended that the peti>ioncr Oiould be allowed
* 3000 dollars for his expenses whilst detailed at H*-
i vannah, on account of debis owing on account of t' r .e
, United States, and 1740 dollars which are said to have
t been paid to Thomas Peteifon, for his detention at
Kew-Oi leans, as a boflagc, on account of tbe said.
After some debate, the eoinroiUefc, oT ( the
; whole agreed to the following relolution reported by
the commit tee of claims ; 59 votes to 30 :
" Resolved, that the accounting officers o* the trea*
s fury be dircDed to fir trie rhe account 6f Oliver Pol
lock, and allow him the sum of 471© dollars, with
* the in ereft from the time of paymeut, which fiiall be
1 considered in full of all claims of the petitioner upott
r the treasury of the United States."
The cornmitie rofc, the houie agreed to the refolu
, tion without a divtOon, and the committee of oiairns
c was diretled to report a bill accordingly;
On motion of Mr Harrifon, the house went int<»
a committee of the whole on the bill for the relief of
Lucy Clark ; which hav ng been agreed to, thecom
r mittee rose, the house confirmed the report, and the
bill was ordered to beengroffed for a third reading to
morrow.
> A message was received from the President of the
United States, informing the hoofe that he had appro
ved and signed an a& supplementary to t,he aft relative
to foreign coin* ,
Mr. S. Smith called up the resolution which
1 laid upon the table some day* ago, calling upon the
1 President of the United States for a llatement of* the
lolfes recovered under tbe Britilh treaty, which was
agreed to.
TheSpEAKER informed the House that he had re
ceived a letter from a member from Vermont, which
he was requested to lay beforethem.
Mr. Rutledgf thought, that [in aJI cases when
letters were frnt to the Speaker to be laid before the
house, it would be proper for him to state the iiib
: itence of such communications before they were read,
{ in order that improper matters might Hot be£brought
before them.
ThcSrEAKER acquiesced in the propriety of the
suggestion, and after stating the fubliance of the let
ter, the reading of it being called for, it was read a
. loud, as follows:
1 SIR,
As the attention of tbe House of Reprefenteti'oet ha*
keen called to my conduct in a difput* -with Mr. GrIS
WOLD, on a fuggeflion of its leing a violation of tbe
order of tbe House, and tbe refpett due to it from all.ilt
I members, I feel it incumbent on me to obv : ate the imputa
-3 tion of intentional diftefpefl. Permit m* y Sir,
8 ! you, to ajfure the House of Representatives, that I fee Idj
j much as any of its members tbe neceffiiy of prefervinv tbe,
j utmojl decorum in its proceedings ; that lam incapable of
1 a * intentional violation of its rules ; and that y if in the
1 preftni injlance, lam chargeable n ith a disregard cf the
f i is oiving only to my igttorame of their extent, and that
tbe bouse of representatives claimed any fisperin'w
dance over its members when not formally conjiiti/icd, and.
tvben they are not engaged in actual bufinsfs. Jf I have
* been mijluLen in--my understanding on this J be% the
- |, House to believe that my fault bus been without intention *
j and that lam very sorry that I have deferred its cenfurt«
I am, Sir f
Your mojl obedient servant,
" MATTHEW
I To the Speaker of the House
I of Representatives.
February I, I 798.
( The reading of the letter having been £on*
tVirougb, a member proposed that it flieiUl lie on
th* table, when
t ; Mr. M acon said, that as it was an acknovt'edgw
, jnent of improper conduit, he thought it o't b ht to
[ be entered upon the journals.
I Mr. Nicholas movad that his letter be referred
I to *h c committee who has this fubjc& und :r Tonfid
eratioti. Gentlemen would recolle&,h (aid,rhat
on a fvirmer occ Con, when an offence of the-fame
f n. Cure waa committed, a letter written by the o:-'mcmVr was net only referred, but was
tlfo deemednJullicicnt apology to the house. He
did not know that this would he the. cafe in the
present infUncc ; but that it might be was evinced j
oy the cafe to which he alluded. He hoped, there- |
lore, it would be referred.—Agreed.
Mr. Ha r per' laid on-the lable a resolution for the j
putpofe ot inttituuitg an enquiry into the fubjeft of j
a letter from General Claik, of Georgia, to the spa- J
fcifh confulat Qharlcfton, communicated to the com- J
fnittee appointed to prepare and report articles of iui- i
peaebmrut against Wiliiam J» ount, by the Spanilh (
fhinittet, and contained in their report of 4111 Dc
cemberilaft '
Mr. Champli n presented a petiiian'from sundry
inha >.ants of Newport, RI. praying that a ltght- |
house may be erecked on Eaton's neck (XafTau lfland) '
and that two buoys may be placed near the entrance
of the harbour of Newport. J
Mr. Livingston presented a petition to the tame
etfe£Hrom the Marine Society of New-York. Both
were referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
The SriAiCER informed the House that he had re
ceived a letter from Dr. Redman, Prehdcnt of the
College of Pbyficians, accompanying the proceedings
of that body relative to the prevention of the intro
duction and spreading of contagious diseases, which
had this morning been laid before the members. It
was read, and ordered to lie upon the table.
Mr. Livingfton presented the petition of Peter
Vanzandt, for compenfatioa for injuries sustained dur
ing the war, from the Ameiican army. Adjourned
By this day's Mail.
SALEM, (MafT.) Jan. 26.
Oait. Benjamin late of the Seh'r
Sally, of this port, arrived her* on Wednes
day, from Nantz, where he was carried in
by a privateer, and condemned—beingbnund
to Vigo in Spain. He came into Boston fel
low pafTengers with four other mailers, and
27 of their crews, whose vessels and cargoes
had also been condemned, and themselves
robbed and plundered by the barbarians ef
every article of their own personal property
that they coald get hold on.
Capt RufTell informs, that the Americans
captured and carried into Nantz are in a
truly deplorable situation. They are not on
ly llripped of their property, but their
are afTailed as they pass the streets, with the
rudest insults, and/noft bitter curfes,againft
tWmfelve6 and their government. The Ame
rican flag is frequently hoisted, by way of
jnfult, underneath every other. The few
friends the Americans have there, dare not
fay a word in their favour. The crews of
the veflele are turned alhore without the
means of subsistence ; and as there is no
other business than privateering carried on
there,many of them areobliged to enter into
that business, and take up arms against their
countryman, to save themselves from starving
Mr. Dobree, the American Couful, placed
as he is ir» a den of privateerfmeo, could do
nothing for the relief of his fellow citiiens
they were therefore indueed to fend on a
memorial to Mr. Skipwith, at Paris, defir
inghis advice and assistance. The memori
al states, that they are captured under va-
Ti'ous pretences, particularly for not having
a paper, which the French term a roll of
equipage, but which tlrey are entirely
unacquaint.ed with—That they had every
paper which was conceived to be neceflary
among which were certificates from the
French, Spanilh and British Consuls—That
many of their people.are tempted with bribes
t£ swear that their "property is enemies'—
That thej' have no opportunity to counte
raft such things in their courts—That their
turned aftiore and out of employ
ment was 160—and that the men would be
obliged, unless some provisions was made for
tjiem, to .enter on board the French priva
teers, [Or fiarve.
Capt. Rtiflcll further fays, that there are
evidently great numbers of the French dis
contented with the present order of things
—but are obligedto fltout Vive la ' Repub-
Uque.—That the country is full of brigands
—and that new explosions must again con
vulse the nation.
From appearances in some of our smiths
(hops, it may be conjeftured that our nau
tical citizens are determined to fail the o
cean in pe act.
New languages !—We have lately
seen advertifad, Angloamerican grammars,
and Columbian spelling books. We imagine
that the people who {peak these languages
are some new republics which Jupitar Buon
aparte has established in the aerial regions,
by the thunderbolt which citizen Campenaj
ha 3 armed him with. That they are the
bed languages which exist within the solar
system, is proved by variois advertisements;
and it is recommended to the people of the
United States to discard their present aris
tocratic language, and adopt the Angloa
merican or Columbian, which cannot fail
to preserve the principles of pure democra
cy-
ALEXANDRIA, January 19.
On Saturday evening, about 8 o'clock, a, a ser
vant was «oing into the cellar of the Union tav
ern, he perceived a body of smoke i(Tiling from a
part of the cellar in which a quantity of hay had
been deposited. On examination it appealed that
a number of coals and chip, had been thrust two
feet into the hay. Had it not been for the wctnefs
of (he hay, owing to the heary rain, for these few
dayspaft, which prevented the fire from immedi
ately kindling into a blaze, the house in all pro
bability would have been eonfumerf, as there was a
large quantity of liquors in the cellar.
A negro woman was yesterday committed to
gaefon i'ufpicion of having perpetrated the a 3.
Edward Dunant,
No. 149, South FrOnt-ftfeet,
HAS on hand, of the cargo, per Johanna, di
rcA from for falc,
}co kegs fun Ratlins
I rn bloom Raifim
150 jars 3
IZO boxes Mufcatcl do.
80 jars Grape* /
10 kegs Fig*—and
Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr. casks
freight or charter,
said Brig JOHANNA, beirg
'</•( a Dane of about >OO toa. but then.
as above.
January') I. . -;t
Flax Seed for Sale.
Apply to GEO. DOBSON,
No. s 5 South Third street.
Jin- »7- dlf
Xf)t Csasette;
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, FEBkUARr 7,.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES-
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT TEE SECOND SESSION, *
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the. State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
Supplementary to the /ft, intituled " an Aft
regulating Foreign Coins; and for other
purposes."
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House ■of
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That the se
cond feftion of an Aft, intituled" an Aft
regulating foreign coins; and for other pur
poses," be, and the fame is hereby suspend
ed, for and during the space of three years
from and after the firft day of January, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight,
and until the end of the next feifien of Con
gress thereafter, during which time the said
Gold and Silver coins (hall be and continue
a legal tender, as is provided in and by the
firft feftion of the Aft aforefaid; and that
the fame coins Ihall thereafter cease to be.
such tender.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefidentof the United States,
and President of the Senate. •
Approved.—February ill, 1798,
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering, Secretary of State.
MARRIEP]—On Thursday last, in
this city, by the Rev. Dr. Andrews, John
Warren Armstrong, Esq. of the city
of Brillol, in England, to Miss Kirkup,
daughter of the Rev. Mr. Kirkup, of Lit
ton, in Dorsetshire, England.
Last evening, by the Right Reverend
Dr. White, ,Mr. William Forrest, mer
chant, to Miss Dunlap, daughter of Mr.
John Dunlap, of this city.
Died, at Boston the zift ult. Miss Julia
Wadsworth Knox,in the 14th yearofher
age, second daughter of General Knox
This is the ninth child her bereaved parents
have buried.
The chaia that binds to sublunary joys,
Link after fink, relentless time destroys ;
But hope with irdent eye.those fcencsexplores,
Which all we've loft, and more than all rcftonrs.
The following is a correft account of the
fecqnd high handedrobberyin New-York,
mentioned in yesterday's Gazette.
A daring robbery and bnrglary were com
mitted on Tuesday morning, between 12
and one o'clock, at the houle of Grenvill*
Temple, Esq. on the Greenwich Road, of
which th"e following are the particulars, as
nearly as we have been able te colleft :
About the time above-mentioned one of
the women (ervaßts imagining Ihe heard a
noise at the Ihuttersofthe window, cxprelfed
her fear to Mrs. Temple that some persons
were breaking into the house. Mrs. Tem
ple ridiculed her alarm as groundless ; and
would not have taken further notice of the
matter had not a few minutes convinced her
that the servant's fufpiciona werebut too well
founded. She accordingly drefled herfelf
and prepared for the confeqnences.
After the villains had remained in the
rooms below for the space of an hour and
an half, during which time they had plun
dered them of every thing valtuble, they as
cended the flairs and proceeded to the cham
ber adjoining Mrs. Temple's, where another
of the women servants lay asleep. They a
woke her, and, holding a pistol to her head,
threatened her with immediate death if Ihe
occasioned the lead alarm. Her trunk was
in the room, which they opened, and took
out 30 dollars. They then enquired of the
servant if (lie was the lady of the house and
were answered in the negative. At this in
stant Mrs. Temple (with an amiable cou
rage peculiar to herfelf, and almofl amount
ing to romantic heroism) opened the door,
and presenting herfelf to the nan who ap
peared to be the captain of the gang, en
quired his business with her, informed him
Ihe was the lady of the house, and requeft
cd to be treated with delicacy. This the
man promised, and religiously adhered to :
he put coals into her foot stove, infilled on
her taking a cordial which he prepared for
her to prevent her spirits from being too
much depressed, allured her she was fafe un
der bis proteftiou, and behaved with all the
fang froid imaginable. .
The robbers then proceeded to the objeft
of their visit; and, after taking from Mrs.
Temple a purse containing five dollars, ano
ther containing a quantity as old Gold coins,
some Spanilh money with holes drilled thro'
Banknotes to the valje of 800 dollars, all
the Silver plate, some jewels, a watch of
Mr. Temple's, a blunderbuss, 2 pistols (one
of which they fired in tjieroom,) and a va
riety of other articles, in value amounting
to more than 2000 dollars, they left the
house about 5 in the morning.
Mrs. Temple throughout the whole of
these tranfadH'ons, cwndufted herfelf witn a
manly fortitude,' and a composure which a
ftouiThed even the villains themselves.
Mr. Temple had embarked for Europe
some \rfeeks ago to join his regiment, and
no roan servant was in thf house at thie time
when the robbery was committed.
The men had' their faces blacked, wore
black wigs and waggoner's frocks, and
ten in number Fium their conduft they
appeared to have a perfe£t knowledge of
the house, and of the domestic. concerns of
the family. Their chief profeffed to have
known Mrs. Temple in Boston, at a tirtoe
when adverse circumftartces ha<3 not riduced
him to the necessity of following art occu
pation at once so disagreeable and fotfange
rons.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE.
In the House of Representatives of this
State, on the 22d instant, a repoj-t was
made in favour of the petition of William
Lane, Tared Ingerfoll and others. Process
having been issued by the Speaker for the
attendance of witnesses to give evidences as
to the conduct of Henry Shoemaker, the
witnesses were called to the bar of the house
and examined.
Ob the 23d, petitions were presented
from citizens of ParadifeTownfhip, York
County, praying that their names may b;
taken from a petiti<)n for the division of that
county, and that no division may take place
feveral containing a 1100 signatures from
York county, praying that a division of the
county may take place ; from Isaac
Mason and Zachariah Connell, praying for
a law for the erection of a toll bridge over
the Youghiagpnny river; from citizens of
York county, praying for leave to eredt fifti
dams and fifh balkets in the river Sufqut
hannah; from a number of citizens playing
that Resolve Sessions may receive assistance
from the Legislature, as he was obliged to
fly for endeavouring to execute the laws of
the state, in the county of Luzerne. The
committee of accounts reported that they
had fettled the accounts of Jacob Shoema
ker. A bill was reported to ascertain the
lines between the county of Chester and
Lancaster. A bill was received from the
Senate for repairing the public highways.
A resolution was adopted requiring thecom -
mitteeof accounts to enquire what compen
sation ought to be made to the witnefles for
their attendance to give evidence with ref
peft to the eonduft of Henry Shotmaker ;
and a resolution was offered by Mr.' Evans,
for the appointment of the comniitte* to
draught an address to the Governer for re
moval of Henry Shoemaker from his office.
A motion was made by Mr. Wain, to this
effedt," " that the evidence offered to the
house refpe&ing the mifconduA of fienry
Shoemaker, Esq. is not fuffioient to induce
it to address the Governor to remove him
from office."—After a lengthly debate, the
house adjourned without coming to a deci
sion.
On the 24th, bills were reported to raise
by lottery 2,400 dollars forere&inga bridge
ovet Sweetarra Creek as James town; and
to authorize the Governor to incorporate a
company for the ereftion ps a bridge at or
near Trenton. Report was made against
the petitions of Robert Armilrong and Wil
liam Beatte, The bill for eredting the bridge
over the Schuylkill; and the bill for felling
and conveying certain lots i'h Lewiftown,
'Northiimbeiland county, were read the
third time and passed. Tbebill to eopipen
fate Alexander M'Dowell, was read a se
cond time and agreed to. The eommittee
of accounts reported that they had fettled
the account of David Achefon. Mr. Bon
net laid a resolution on the table for the re
moval of the feat of government. The house
proceeded to the farther canfideration of the
refolutioi relative to H. Shoemaker, Esq.
After considerable debate, Mr. Wain with
drew his motion to make way for the follow
ing resolution offer«d by Dr. Leib,
Resolved, that a committee be appoiuted
to prepare fpecific charges against Henry
Shoemaker, esq. a Justice of the Peace for
the county of Lycoming, to be grounded
on the testimony offered to this house, and
make report as soon as possible, and that
the Speaker, be inftru&ed as soon as such
report (hall be made,, to issue a notification
to Henry Shoemaker, esq. accompanied by
a copy of the fpecifications against him, to
attend at the bar of this house,. either in per
son or by counsel, on the firft Tuesday in
march,toanftfrerto such fpecifications. —The
hoilfe adjourned without coming to a deci
sion.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived at Reedy Island.
Brig Rride, Quandrill, Rotterdam, vi» N. Y.
Hannah, Hammond, Wilmington, N. C.
Schr. Milley, Edwards, Gonaives
Sloop Brilliant, Walfon, Richmond
The outward bound vefiels had not left Ree
dy Iflind on Monday last.
The brig Molly, Kilby, and schooner Angeli
ca, Foster, from hence, have arrived at St- Tho
mas's. -
The (loop Sally and Jane, Small, from hence
has arrived at the Havannah.
A person who left Reedy liland on Monday
informs,that in the gale on Saturday lad, a
fchr. from the Wefl-ludies, was drove alhore on
Appequinimink Bar; he did not learn her
name, but underflood (he had bren into George-
Town for ftipplies, had 10 men on board saved
from a wreck—a sloop was also on (bore
down the bay ; and a schooner from Paffima
quody. jammed in the ice, unknown.
The ship Smallwuad, Johnlton, letely cleared
from Alexandria for the isle of France.
New-T»rl, February* I.
ARPIVRP. DAYS.
Ship Perseverance, Williamfop, Poit-au-
Prince 15
Franklin, Bunce, Sdrrinam 28
Ship Diana, Harrifon, Havannah 20
Brig Hazard, Dri'.mmond, Londou 70
Integrity, Gill'endcrs, Charleston
Extraft of a-letter to a Merchant in ijiisci- !
ty, dated Baffeterre,~(Guadaloupe') sth j
January.
" Wt have been alarmed here, by a re
volt of the Negroes, but they ate conquer
ed and several hundred shot.
" American vessels are daily brought in,
and condemned; the plea for condemnation
is their being bound to Britith ports. Ves
sels here have been under embargo since the \
25 th <>f December. |
" Prices for provisions are a» follows:
Beef, 10 dollars, • j
Pork, from 16 to 18 do.
Flour, 9 do. i
Butter, Lard and Cheef* would not fetch
more than gd. this currency."
The following American vessels were lying
at London, when capt. Drummond, of
the Hazard, failed:
Ship Manthefter, Shewel, Philadelphia
Brig Dispatch, Rinkers, Di'to
Diana, Henderfon, Boston 1
Ship Hope, Callahan, Frederickfburgh !
Ann, Savage, N«w-York !
Bristol, Smith, ditto
Fame, Dury, ditto
Thertfa, Darrel, Charleston
Roebuck, ditto |
Diana, Hutchins, Baltimore
Mary, White, Providence
Rebecca, Curren, • Norfolk
Brig Union, Brift, N. Caielina
Ship South Carolina, Robinson, Charleftou
Brig Paddy, O'Drifcoll ditto
Ship Nancy, Joy, Boston
Sehorfner Industry, Stinfon, of Boston from
Bourdeaux, bound to Altona, taken by
the Anfon frigate, capt. Derbain, and
sent into Falthouth, August 26.
The (hip Hope, of Frederick (burg, Calla- '
han, from the Isle of Franee, bound to
Liverpool.
Capt D. on the 21ft November, was
boarded by a Republican (loop of war, and
after over hauling'his papers, and treating
him politely, returned on board, and wi(h
ed him a good voyage lat. 48 45.
January 5, spoke the Ship Providence,
eapt. Powell, from Providence, bound to
Hamburgh, lat. 41, 00.
January 12. Spoke a sloop from Wifeaf
fet, bound to Mariegalante, long. 63, 30.
January 16. Spoke the (hip Liberty, of
Wilmihgton, bound to London, with a
great number of people on board, long. 66,
five days out.
January 24. Spoke brig Dorothy, from
Curracoa, bound te N. York, out 20 days
lat. 39, 66.
Received by the brig Hazard.
London, Nov. 6th, 1797.
Sir, —On your arrival at New-York,
please to mention that the schooner Indus
try, of Boston, David Stinfon, from Bor
deaux, bound to Altona, on August 26,
was taken by the Anfoa Frigate, Capt.
Derham, and sent into Falmouth, and af
ter examination of t}ie papers, finding them
clear, then offered one of the Teamen on
board 501. to mate oath agaiift the reffel
and cargo ; and now te clear themselves
of the damages, they are tryi»g all ways
to condemn the cargo
signed) DAVID STINSON.
Capt. Bunce of the (hip Franklin, 28 days
from Surinam, left the following Vessels.
Ship Maria, Riley, New-York.
Nonpariel, Fanning, ditto
General Wayne, Pearfons, ditto
Diana, Furlong, Charleftoa.
Maria & Eliza, Downs, Boiton.
Brig Two Friends, Endicot, Salem.
—, Cook, ditto
Schr. A<3ive, Connel, New-York.
Several other American vessels names not
recolle&ed were there when (hip FrankliH
failed.
The (hip Aurora, O'Connor, of New-
York, wasfpoken on her passage to Jamai.
ca, 11 days out.
A wreck has been discovered near Cape
Look Out, on her stern " Polly Hall, of
Nantucket."
Salem, Jatrurry 26.
Lift of American vessels captured and condemn
ed at the port of Nantz.
Ship« Rainbow, Smith, from Charleston for
London ; Charlotte, Lindl'ey, from Charleston
for Bremen Hebe, Landegren, from Savannah
for Lancaster j Confederacy, Jenks, of New-
York from China to Hamburgh ; Oneida.Sher
ry, from New-York for London ; Brifeis,
Breath, from New-York for Amsterdam ; Mtr
cvryj Keown, of Philadelphia) from Norfolk
to Bremen ; Bacchus, George, from Philadel
phia to London ; Eunice, Seal, of Portland,
frona Liverpool to Philadelphia ; Columbia,
Lathrop, of Norwich, from New-York to Ham
burg : Brigs American Hero, M'Dougal, from
New-York to Cadiz ; Mary, Holmes, frr.m
Bollon to Naples ; Catharine, Cizneau, of New-
Uuryport, from Alexandria to Amsterdam ; Ma
ry, Choat, of Boston, from iNew-York to Havre
de Grace ; schooner SaHy, Ruflell, from Salem
to Vigq i all condemned. Ship Li.rht Horse,
Haff, of New-York, from Bristol to Newyork,
and brig Juno, Walker, of Portfnjouth, from
Charleston to Hamburg, waiting trial.
Insurance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania.
February I, 1798.
THE Dire&orihare this day declared a dividend y
of seventy dollars on each fliare of the stock of the
company, for the l&ft fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal reprcfcnti
tives after the tothiaft.
JAMES S. COX, Prtfultnh
Febru ry 1
FOUND, ~
In Sprue: street, Philadelphia/ 011 Sunday even- j
ing th; ailt inft 2 trunks.—Eaquire at No. so, 1
North Fourth Street.
February I *3t.
~ OVAL BOTTLES. j
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti- |
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fire—For faie-.
No 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSiY.
Jjnuary la Jtaw6w.
The committee of privilege*, to whojn
was r» flirt*! a resolution oft the Joth Jsii.
ctf&fg'ng Mr. Lyon- vfritf. diforderlv beha
vior :—with irtßi ufJons to enquire into the
wholt 'matter thereof, and to report the
fame with their opin'on thereon, to ,tl c
hone, having examined the several witne(Te«
on oath touching the fubjeft,
RfiPOSLT,
That during the fitting of the house of
representatives, on the 30th Jan. the tellers
of the house being ongagwJ in counting the
ba'lots for managers of the impeachment a
gainst Win, Blount, the speaker had left
hik chair, and many members their feats, as
is usual on such occasions. The fpejkcr
was fitting in one of tine member's feat*
next to the bar the house, afttl f-Vcr~l
members near him, of whfrm Mr. Gr.'fwold
was one.
Mr Lyon was (landing without the bar
of the House, leaning on the farr.e, and
holding a conversation with the Speaker
he spoke loud enough to be heard by all
those who were near him, as if he intend
ed to be heard by them. The fubjedt of
his conversation was, the tondnft of the
Reprefentatires of the State of Conic&icut
(of whom Mr. Grifwold is one)—' Mr. Ly
on declared that they afted in opposition to
the interest and opinions of nine-tenths of.*
their co iftituents—that they were pursuing
their own private views, without regarding
the interest of the people of that State, that
they were ieeking otJu.es, which they were
willing to accept whether yielding nine
thousand or one thoufafid dollars. Tie fur
ther observed, that the people of thac Stale
were blinded and deceived by those Repre
ientatives, that they' were permitted to fee
but one tide of the qu.'ftion in politics, be
ing lulled asleep by the opiates which the
| members from that Hate adniiniftered to
them, —with other exprcfßons equally tend
ing to derogate from the political integrity
of the Reprefentatiycs of the State of Con
necticut.
On Mr. Lyon's observing that if he
(hould go into Conne&icut, and manage a
press there fix months, although the people
of that flats were not fond of Revolution
ary principles, he could effeft a Revolution
and turn out the present Representatives—.
Mr. Grifwoli, replied to these remarks, and
among other things said, if you go into
Connecticut, you had better wear your
wooden sword, or words to that effedi, al
luding to Mr. Lyon's having been cashiered
in the army.
Mr. Lyon did not notice the allusion at
this time, but continued the conversion
on the fame fubjeft—Mr. Grifwold then
left his feat, and flood next to Mr. Lyon,
leaning oa the bar, being outside the fame:
On Mr. Lyon's faying that he knew the
people of Connediicut well, having lived a
mong them many years, that he had fre
quently had occasion to .fight them in his
own diftrift, and that he never failed to con.
viace them—Mr. Grifwold asked, if he
fought them with his "wooden fword—Oa
which Mr. Lyon spit in his face.
The Committee having attentively con
sidered the foregoing state of fadb, and hav
ing heard Mr. Lyon in hi* defence, arc of
opinion, .that his candu£l in this tranfa&ioa
was highly indecorous and unworthy of a
member of this house. f
They therefore recomra&id the adoption
of the resolution fnbmitted to their confide
ratiou by the house, in the words following,
to wit :
" Rcitlvcd, that Matthew Lyon, a mtmber of
this h«ulc, for a violent attack and grol , indecsncy
committed on the ptrfoo of Roger Grifwold, inn
th;r member, in the prefenee of this house, whilst
fitting, be, for this diforjerly behavior, expelled
theretrorp "
NEW-THEATRE/
THIS EVENING,
FEBRUARY 2.
Will be presented, {for the firit time in Ameri
ca) a new Tragedy (in three Ads,) called
Feneion;
oa, THE NUNS OF CAMBRAY.
[Altered from a celebrated French Play of that
name, performed at Paris with unbounded
applaufe.J
Feneion, (Archbishop ofCambray)
Mr. Ftnnell
Delmance, Mr. Warren
Officer of the Household, Mr. T, Warrell
Eloifa, Mrs. Ivteriy
Amelia, Mrs. Marfliall '
Ifatira, Mrs. Francis
Abbeii, Mrs. L'Ettrange
Friacs—Mefirs. Wairell, Warrell, jun. Hun
ter, Lavancy, Doflor, Laffcrty, Matthew,, Ac.
Nuns—Mrs Doilor, Mad. Harweod, Mrs.
Stuart, Mrs Warren, Mrs Hunter, Miss Ander
fon, &c. &a.
To which will be added, a Comi Opera, (
three Aifls), called
Inkle and Yarico.
[With the orignal overture and accompani
ments.]
0" On Saturday, (by desire J the firft part of
King Heiuty IVth; or, the Humours of Sir John
■ with entertainments.
Bafkenridgc—tor Sale.
IT confills of 9».0 acres, almost all cf which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refideste of the
late Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently
divided into five farms, four of which are bound
ed on the East by the rivre Pafaick.
There are on it a number of buildings, form
ing a fquaro »f nearly tkrea acres—Xhe dwel
ling house is a very convenient one, and a fmill
expence would put it incomplete repair.
'i he orchard confills of ijoo fine bearing en
grafted Apple Trees—and there is i«b other
parts of said trait near 300 other Apple Trees—
a. also a great var't yof other f, uit», particular
ly Cherries of ihc heft and molt delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotic* and
Forest Trees, that add ro the beauty and conve
nience of the place. Its G'uation is about id
i nii'e* from the towns of Newark gnd Elizabeth;
j 10 do. from Morris-Town, and :2 from Spring
field—lt is wooded and watered.
To save trouble, the price is five pounds pr.
• acre in cath, on delivery of the dec-is. Pleaiie
to enquire of T. McEUF.N & Co.
No. 71, Chcfnur Street.
February a. eodtfPROPOSALS
FOR
CJRRTING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Port Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PENNSYLVANIA, Vc.
1. From Philadelphia by Wilmingtpn, Newcas
tle, Cantwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erick Milford, Clßughs, Dagftorougl;. Trap,
Snowhill, Horntawn and Accomic court house to
Northampton court house three times a week.
April Ito Hommb.tr tj. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northampton c-iurt house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at 7JP m. Returnvg. Leave
JJortiramptoß court hi.use evefy Friday, Monday
and WedwTday at 2 a m, and arrive at Pkiladel
phia 011 Monday, Wednesday and Friday by J l-»
FM.
November 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd<y, Thurfltsy and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 '
Lrave Northampton court honfc every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a h, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by ? r m.
VIRGINIA. !
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thr.e times a week 1
April I to November is- Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 p m, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours.
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday. Fri
day an J Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in twenty four hours.
November 15 to April I. Leave Northampton
court house everyTuefday,Thw"fday and Saturday
at 3 a m, and arrive at Norfolk in Re~
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcd'ief
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northanap- ;
toi* court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA Us MARYLAND
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmiagton, N-w
---tiort.Chriftitna.Middletown, Warwick mdGoergc
towncrofsroadstoCheflerftownthreetiniesa week. ,
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphiaeve/y
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m , and ar
rive at Chellertown the next days by 8P M. Re
turning—Ltave Cfceftertownevery Monday, We,l- j
nefday and Friday by 9 e m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by 8 p m.
November I t* May X. Leave Philadelphia eve- j
ry Monday and Friday by 9 am, and arrive at
Chellertown oii Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 11 W-
Kdarning—Leave Cheftertown evetv Monday and
Friday by 8a m, and prrive Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday.by 4PM
MARYLAND.
4 Frqnv Chellertown by Centerville, Eatton,
Vi-nna, Salilbury,f.nowhill andPlin
'eift Apn to SalSifccry once "4 week.
• Reecivethe at ChellerHiwn every Wednef
£ay at 7 a m, arrive at Eaflon by 4 » M.
Fallrti onThnrfjiy by .6 a m, arriye at SncwhiU
011 Friday by 1 P. u, and at Prlncels Ann by 6 r.
n. Returning—Le«vePrincefs Ann onsaturd»y by
to a m, arrive at Kaflion the nek day or Monday
by 6p m Leave Bifton on Tuesday by AM, and
arrive st Cheftertown feiiediy by 4 p m.
.5. From Harford by Bel-Air tothe jilickhotfe
ones a week.
Leave Harford every Tuef.'.iy by 10 a m, and
irrlvt at Slack Uorfe by 6 T "i. LeiM
rit.- ck horse on Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive kt
rinriffd Jle next Tuicfd»y by 9 « «■
PE \ NSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIM.-
G/MA . .. . _ ..
6. From Baltimore . BiacSJiarfe toYotktown
t»a. once a
Leave Baltin-bre every Friday by 4 p tf, arrive
at Bbck'hoife on Saturday, by t® a u, and arrive
it Yofktown by 8 l'M. R.-lv"t!rtg—L,tiV'i. York,
to/, u every Thursday by 7 a u, and arrive at Bal
tinvcrscn F/iday noon
7. From Yorktov.u by Hanover, Peterfturig,
Taneyton ar.d Fredericttown to Leeibiirg once a
week.
Leave Yorktow* every Moftday at 8 a m, arrive
at Frederickto'-vn on Tu fday by 5 * M > andarrive
at Letfburg on WednnHay by 2P m. Returning—
Liave Leelburg every Friday it aooli, ana arrive
at Yoiktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktownby Abbotflown.Gettilburg,
Fairfield, Eliiabethtowo, Williatufport, Martmf
fcurg, Winchefler, Steveufburg and Straiburg to
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktowo every soon, arrive
it Martiufburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
fiiartinfWg on Tusfiay soon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Weducfday by 6P M. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Fiidayby u a m, andarrive atYork
town on Sunday byll am.
j. from Pittlhurg by Ctnnonlburg, Walhing
ton. Weft LibeTty and Wheeling to the month of
jifhing creek once a week (contract for one year
only.)
Leave ?ittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creek on Sunday at 9a m Return
ing—Leave Filhii.g creek on Wednofday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittiburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Wauiisgton by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Wa(hing;on by 6p m. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown oa Sun
day at 6p m. Leave' Morgantown on Monday
8 a m , andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by FVcdericktown, Eliza
bethtowp, Greencaftle and Chainherfburg to Jhip
penftmrg once a wetk.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, at i".U
eabrthrown in the evening, and at Shippcnfbarg
*m Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m , at FrcderUktown oa Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by j p m.
MARYLAND.
12. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week .
LeaveCtnibeiland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizaltethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—l.eave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland uefday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and
-arrive at Annapolis by 5r m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by j pa.
14. From Baltimors hy nnapolis, Qneen Anns,
XJpper Marlborough. Pifcataway,P»rttohacco, *l
- Newport and Chaptico to Lconardtown
once a week.
I.eave Bsltimore every Friday at to a m, arrive
»t Annapolis at 5 PM. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon.arrive at Pifcataway by 6 p it. & arrive at
Lconardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock.
Returning—Leave Leonardtown every Moiiday at 3
r u, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 m
arrive at Upper Marlborcugh oa Wednesday by
'll am, and arrive at Annapolit by 6 p si. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a h, and arrive at
Balttnoreby3p u.
15 From Annapolis.hy Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to St. Leon
ards once a week
Leave Annapoli« every saturday at 9 a ss, and
arrive at St. Leonards en Monday hy 3 r st. Re
t-jming— Leave St. Leonards every Monaay at 4
p si, and arrive at Artnepolis the next Saturday hy
6'A M.
16. Frorti Bladenfiurg by Upper Mi.rlborougV,
Not iiighim, Lower Msrlbarough, A aqvufeo, Bin
n«di& and Charlottehall to Chaptico-oncea week, i
Leave Qlwhr.lburg every Saturday at 9 a M,ar- i
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at Lower
MarlUoroughom Monday by 5 p u, 2c at Chaptico
by 6 r m. Returning—LeaveChapticoevcryThurf
day it 6 a h, and arrive at Bladeulburg on Satur
day at 6 A m.
17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pm • Returning—*
Leave Fisedericktown every Thursday iy 5 a m,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m. (
VIRGINIA.
l! 5. from Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
ham court house, Staunton, Lexington and
tle to Big Li«k once a week.
Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive'at Staunton on Friday at IP M. Leave Staun
ton every Friday at 2 p m, arrive a*. Big Lick on
Sunday by II am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
on Sunday by I p m, arrive at Staunton every Tues
day by ham. Stauntom by 11 o'clock
)noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wedriefday by
J p m.
19. From Big Lick by Montgonv ry court house
and Wythe eourt house to Abingdon once a week.
Leave Big L,ick every Sundai at I p m, arrive
at Wythe court hq»fs on Tuesday by 1 p m, and at
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6pm Retiming— f
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 p m, and ar
rive at Pig Lick on Sunday by 11 a m.
TENNESSEE.
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jon.lborough
Greenville, Moffat's (lore and Jefferfon court houle
to Knozville once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thurf.'ay by 6 /t»M, ar
rive at Moffnts store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Mo£fatsby 9 a m, and arrive at itnoxville on Surt
day by icf a m. Returning—Leave KtioiviUe eve
ry Sunday by 1 P m, arrive at Moffa(s on Monday
by 3p m. Leave Moffats ci\ Monday at 4 PM,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednufday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA.
21. From Winchester by ftomney to MoorSdds
ohce a week.
Leave Wmchefter every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arrive at MooriieiJ »n eridayjiy 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Moorlield every Saturday at 8 a m, and ,
arrive at Wineheffer on Sunday by 6 f M.
22. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to MartinJburg onoi a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wedn.fday at 9 a m,
atid arrive at .Vlartiiuburg on Friday by 1,0 am.
Returniug—L cave Martiniburj every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
sj. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons,Tappahinnock, U'rbanna and Glouceiter court .
house t«Y»rktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive »t tappahannock on Thursday by 11
A M. L,*e»ve Tappahannoc* at noon and arrive at
Yorkqpwu on Saturday by 11 Am. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at'i P M, arrive
at Tippihjnnockthe next Monday noon and arrive
u frderickikurg yn lucfdjybf 5 PM.
24 From Tappahannock by Rifhmond court
houU, Wefttr.oreland court house, Kinlale, Farri
ham church and Northumberland court house to
Lipcaftfcr court hofofeonce a week
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lanoafter tourt.houfe on Saturday by 11
a m. Returning—LejveLancalter court house ev
ery Saturday by 1 P Jl. ahd sLrrfve at Tappaban
uoik on Monday by 11 a m.
2f. From Frcderickfhurg by Cutpeper court
house AQrangec. h. to Charlottefvilleoucje a week.
Leave iTederickiburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
anifjirriVe atCnarlottefyilje on I'hurfdaji; by 11 a
■m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturdaj
at? {"M-, and ai+ivfe it FredencM&jrj; oh Ties*
day by 6 a m. »
2s. Frem Rjchmpnd by C/opehknd eourt
hoyfe Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week. .
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at i P M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A M.
L?a»fc CharhMtrfville bv noon and arrive at
Staunton «n Friday by ii am. Returning —
Leave StaAnton Oia SatuV-day by 6 A m, arrive al
Charlettefviile by 7 p M, and arrive at Rich
mond (be next Tuesday b,y 9 A M.
27. Pr»m Staunton hy Bath court-hcufe and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrifer coiirt-houle once a
week.
Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6p M. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
house every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 pm.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War'
minster, New-Market, Aniherft eourt house,
Cabelllburg, and Maddifcn to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 F
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 am, and arrive at Charlottefville
oa Thursday by 10 a'm.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts.and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried inftages as often at they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 a m,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday al 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at t p m , and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuefifciy by 5 p m.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins't, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrjve at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A m,
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning —
Leave New-London evdry Friday at 2 r M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
Edwardi pn Saturday by 7 P M, and arrive at
Richmondon Monday by 4 p m.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincaltle on Saturday by 6 p m.
Returning—Leave Finciflle on Monday at 5 A
m, and arrive at New London cn Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky IVfount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Martinville on Momiay by 6 A M,
I and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33. From Trine* Edward court house by
Charlotte cou.t house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Lfcave PrioceE.dwaHcoMrthoufeevery Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
■ live at Prince Edward court house od Sit»rday
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA andNORTH-CAROLINA.
34. from Hjlifax court-houleby Halifax nkliown,
Carters, Martinviltr, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau
r», Germautnwn aud Bahama to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
9, fM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday b\ 6,
PM. Iteiurnib/; LeavcSalein e*ery oihcr Tuesday
at 6, A M, and ajri»e at Halifaxcouit-houfe 00 Fri
day by 10, A M.
35. Fiom Hairis'sby Hickes'sford 10 Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every WednefdaV a[ '<i Saturday by
5, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, K M. Return
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday arid Sunday by 6,
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton ccuit-houfe
to Hickti'sTord once a week.
leave Mfck/lijrrf tiWv Fri i-./by i , V M-
ariive at r w l. ,
Returning—f.edv.?3uuthji.*!d every Sjttdiiy t»y. »
5, A M, and arrive at livcVy'a torJ o ) Monday l>y 1
a, PM. 1
37. St. TartW^»nv'«,
MeekJenber;; and Lui»ei»Sjrjj court-SouTes and £d- i
mund* store to Goldfod's Mice <* wtek.
fenexc Saurday bv* a, i' M, waiting at t
Potl-Omctf 'A horfefc deiivery of inai . .
riRGJXTA & N^rH'C.niOLlNA.
38. From Suffolk.by Jidcaion, Plymouth and Wa
fhir.g4«m to Newbcrr., one* a week Leave Stiifal*
every Monday at noon, arrive at Tuef
day afl# P M, as P«v«n>dl-h. 011 Wedoiefday oy 6,
A M, at VVi(iiiru(ton by 6, P M, and at fJewbernon
Thurfdayby 5, P M- Returm^-ULeave Newbern
qvery Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Walhington by
5, P M. Arrive at Plymouth o-\ Saturdfty by 4
P M-, ai Edenton on Sui-day by 9, A M, and ai Suf
folk. on Monday by 9, A M.
NOR TH-C 4ROI. IX A.
39 Fram Edcntoaby Heiiford, Nixontou, Eliza- ,
b Lit cily, and Joaelburg to lr.dian-:own, once a j
week.
Leave Edenton every Wedneiday by t, P M, and
* arrive at on Thufday by 6, P M. K.e
turning—Leave Iridiantown every 1 nefdayby 5, A M,
and arrive at Edenton on Wedncfday at |l, A M.
40. trom Halifax N9rtb«rr>pton ciiurt-houfe,
Princeton, Murtreelbarcxigh, Wintou and Wind (or
to Edenton, ancd a week.
Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wccioefday by 3, P M, leave 4den
ton on Wcdnefday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
cm Siturdav by 11, A M
r 41. Frotii Halifax by Scotland, Hogtbn, Williams- ,
ton and Daily's to Plygaouth) once a Leave
| Halifax every Mofiday at 10, A arrive at Ply
mouth on Wcdnefday by tOi A M. Returning—
Leave Plyraouth on Weduefday at 2, P M, ahd as.
rive at Halifax on F'idayat 10, A M.
from Halifax by l\aiboro' arid Greenville to
Walhington onee a week,.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10; A M, and ar
rive at Walhington on Wfednelday by 10 A M. Re
turning —Leave Walhington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and ari ive at Halifa* on Friday at 10, A M.
From Halifox by Wanento.i, Williamfborough,
Oxford, Hillfborough, Salem, Lexing
upn, Salilbury and Staiefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cc&arras court-house ta Salisbury, and
from tkence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at£; A M, arrive at
War rent on by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfbor&ugh on
Wedoefday at 4, P M, at Salem on Fiiday by
P M, at Salilbury on Sa urday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte oh Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
son Tuesday t>y 10, AM, arrive at Salem Wed—
| nefdayatg, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warren'tonon Saturday at 7, P and at
Halifax fen Monday at 6, A M.
44. Frorh Hilllborough hv Mount Tirnah, Pcrfon
court-house, Ltafburg, Caiwell court-h«ufe and Roc-
Uingham court-house to Germaitown once in two
weeks.
Leave Hi!Kbbroughevery other 6, A 2,
and arrive a'. Gerrriantowrt on Satuiday »at 4, P. M.
Leave Gerniantown every other Sunday at 6 p A, M,
add arrivfc it jHillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salefri by Bethania, Hhntfville, Roch
v©rd, Wilke?, Morgantoh and Rutherfordtdn so Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem cvciv otb'er Saturday at 5 \ m, ahd ar
rivi at on Wedhefdiy at 5p M. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Mortday at 6 r m.
46. F1 om Loui{i>urg by Nafh court-house to Tar
boiroUgh once a week.
Tai borough every Friday by 6 am, and ar-
Louiftnifg by 6> m. Returning—Leave Louis-
e.very Saturday by 6 a m, and at Tarbo
rough by 6 p m. .. .
47. from Raleigh By Smitlifield, Waynelborough,
and Kingston to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m«
Leave Newbern other Friday by 2
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 J» m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfborough,
and from HiiliWough by Clwpel hill and Chatham
court-house to kaleigh, once a week. To wait two
Kdurs at Chatham court-lionfe.
Leave Raleigh every Tntfday by,6 A m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday bjr 8 a m, and Arrive
at Raleigh on Tiiurfdiy by 10 a m. ,
49. Fr©m Fayetteville by Elizabfcthlown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Wafliiogtpn,' Sarefto and Samp ton court
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington dn Thursday at 16 A. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 am,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
£O. From Fayetteville l>y Alfordion and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from SalHbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon court-house 2nd Rich- |
mond court-houleto Fayetteville, once a week. j
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and ;
arrive at Salisbury 9*l Tuesday by 9 a m," Sa- I
lifbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at FayeUcville I
on Friday by 6 p m. j
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
' Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a mt, and arrive j
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 ?. m. Wil- |
mingJon every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at Nov- i
bern en Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH iff NORTH CAROLINA. \
52. FYoni Camden by Lancafier court-house, Char- i
lotsc and Lincolnton to Statefvidle, once in two
weeks.
» Leave Camden every other Monday at 6a m, ar
rive at Staiefville on Thursday by 6 r M Leave Statef
ville every other' Friday by 2 p M, a»d arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Cheftcr
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfvi'.le, and
from Piokenfville by Laurens oouruhoufc and New
bury court house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
9ne hour at each poll-office on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
' Pickenfville on Thursday at 4p m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Fiiday at 4 p m, and on
Sunday by 6 p m. 4
5 4.^ From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
, once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at to a m. and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at 1 p M, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at r on.
SOUTH-CAROLINA b GEORGIA.
55. Fxom Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
1 Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court.house, Hat
' tonsford, Fraaklin court-house, Eiberton and Pcterf
) burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgeficid court-house,
r once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin cottit-houfe by 7 p m, at Petersburg
[ on Tuesday by 10 aM, and at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Walhinjjtoii every Wednesday at 6 a m,
" at Camb idge on Thursday by 10 am, and at Edge
field cowrt-houfe by 7 p v.
r "56 from Augusta by Washington, Greenfburg and
Lexington to Geoigetown, once a wetk.
AugulU every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
, Walhington on Tue'day by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thurfdav by 7 r m. Returning—
» Leave Georgetown every Triday at 6a M, aud arrive
at Augusta by noon on Monday.
I 57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2 ? m, and arrive
at Gat ens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—Leave Gar
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by to a. m.
Nnte I. The Pojl M«fter General *iay alter the tine*
of arrival and departure at any time dur'ntg the cOntifiuahce
of the contracts, he previoujly an adequate com
penfatian for any extra, expense that may be occasioned there
by
Note 2. Half an btur flail be allowed Jor opening
■ and clying the fUifdtttU ofjun Kbere no particular time
Ufpcclfri,
Not 4f« For lih-' y fiu/'fiieUf finacotdahm mcloentl
t \'ccpted)g uf'rr til times prcftibed in an\ con
t'sft, the Contractor Jh.zll Joffeit one dollar, and if tkc ie
t ia? continue until tk: dI at lure of an y detendmg Mai*,
u-nereb the Mails d<[lined for such dfpending Mail, lefe
i trip, an addition-at jofjeitxri offive do.tars Jhall be
incurred*
Note 4 Ntxufpapers as well as Let ers are toj be sent
iin the Mails ; and if any perfun Making proposals deft>es
to < trry neiufpapers other titan thafc conveyed in the mail,
for hi' Oti'U em du/.ient f he mufi flatejn bis proposals for
what sum hs will carry it with that emolument and for
what sum without thai cr/
Soti 5« Should aty perfvt making proposals defue an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cif.ed, be mufi Qatj i;i bis proposals tin alterations desired,
an i the difference tb.y will mate in tit terms of his con
trcft*
Note 6. Ptrfoiis waking proposals are deft red to Jlate
their prizes in gross by the year, and not by the mile.
'Tbofe ivbo contrail will receive their pay quarterly, in
the mo>4hs of "January, April, July 2nd OSlu'oer, in
drafts on tbifofl offices on the route und In banh motes.
Note 7 Tbi contrails are to be in operation on the frft
day of April next, and Continue for four years, until
the 3 \jl day of March inchtftve, in the year 1802.
JCfsEPH HABERSHAM,,
Po/i-Mafter (General.
GeNtRAL Post Office, 7
Philadelphia y December 12, 1797s _)
tiith&s£i4thF
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
nno BE SOLD,-a handsome two flory House.
, _L with the Lot on which it is ere<sted, fituuted
about the iriiddle of the beautifiil and Healthy
Villare »f Bordentowrt. The house is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one bund red feet on the main
flreet, and extends with the fame breadth tobaak
ftrcet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparatcd from the former by back, itfleet.
One third Only of the purchaft money will be re»
quired upon executing a deed, and /or the re
mainder, iuch credit will be given as the pur chafe
ermaychufe. This property will be fold free «-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title jfivewf
For farther particulars enquire either ©f Dr.
William Eorses, refidlug in feordentown, near,
the premises, who will fliew the ftmc t or of
PETER THOMSON,
Gonveyancer, no. 144, Market-ftre^t.
.December ft. _ t N .3. a ytf
Princeton —k'ew-Jerfey,
To be Sold,
1"" HAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mi's. Ann Witherfpson, now Mri.
Ann Walker, lived ; together »ith all the appur
tenances. The house is tWo Itol-iei high, olirame
work, and pUi'.red, There are are tour rooms
and an ei.try oil the lewcr i'oor, and five ro.ms
on the second flodr. The cellarsare dry, and tlte
garret spacious —Tfis back yard is paved with
Hones, in it are a well of excellent water, an
oveh, a smoke hotife, and house for alh«s—and
behind it ararriagi house; hay loft, gfavary, and
convenient ftablfis, with four stall% (or korfes, and
four for neat cattle. The lot iS 60 feet wide upon
the llreet. and 154 feet d«t:p, fomew'hat more than
one half of which is made into a kitchen
at a A etceUent foil.
tor terms, which will be made very reafona'ilt,
apply to the rtyrerend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19 iaw4w
Musical Inftritment Manufactory,
167, Arch-Meet.
tD THE LdtfEfci fJARMONV.
HARPER,
INFORMS his frifcnds and die public, thit hi ha*
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much Idinircd fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for fealibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, (implicit) and durability of conllrudlion, the
f'upcriority of which,he flatters himfelf, 4 fihgle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufacSured under his immediate mfpeifion,
of the very best. seasoned materials, he oan fell on
reasonable terms for Cash. Ififtrumsnts repairad,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new. x
navember 18. aaWamo.
A Gardener wanted.
A pei son well acquiiinted with gardening, and
who would occasionally att*ud market* tnay
hear of a place "by applying at the 12 mile stone,
Briftol road, or No. 109, Arch-ftree:,
Philadelphia. A single rjian wolild be preferetfc
Jaß. 20. lawtf
■ —-—1- .r ; .1 ,■ —-' ■ t -
Fer Sale,
The tim'e of a young Mulatto Girl, aboul
twelve years old, has about eleven years to serve.
She is-very capable of taking eare ef a thild,
and underftancls house work. Enquire at No.
97, North sth street.
Jan. ii. *eodlw
Imported inthefhipMANfcMKsTEß,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for falfc by the lubfcriber,
Nll. 11. Walnut Street.
BonrdeauK BTandy "J
Irish market claret in cafe ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauteme, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufcels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to his busi
ness. offers this EfWie for f«le, on tnod-rate
terms. On it aje one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boycing Machine, and a very good grift
Mil!, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfe£l repair, as ate all the Water Works conaeft
, ed with thele various branches. The Atr Furnaces
were lately built for the perpofc*of casting Cannon
, ,for this State.—There arc abnu( two thousand acres
df Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
r very fine arable Land, prod«*ing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannoo lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any ib this Country, afld probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not ruie of sixty-nine guns
\ lately made, although forne of the were hored
into 32 pounders have tai4fd on proving. The fuu*
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manofafture, a»d a place of* arms in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from fevertl land ■
ings on thettudfon's liver, and having every advan
tage that can rftfuli from a plenty of water ifTuiog
from • Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into' a variety of other
ufeful purposes. Ihe purchaser can be accommodat
ed with ail the stock and utenfiis, and have podeflion
on or t'nc fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean ti me for going mto Biaft im
mediately theretiter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with (one coal, Ore, Ac. Ac. For
teima, (fpply Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; J >avid Brook*, ECq. one of the ReprcfentaHves
m Coi7grefs 4or ihiaSiate ; Mr, Wnoman, on
ihepreniifc®, of to the propiietor iu New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOX,
Dee. t. gawtf
Boston Glass Manufactory-
citirens of the United States arc «.;eby
informed, tbat the manufa&tire of V.'widow
GL.fs is now commenced at the Glass House in Loi
ton. *
It is needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston <JHf«, as it i* fa well known
the United States to In* in every r*f|»e&
greatly fupcrini to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly ufcd ; and
may beconftantly had by applying to Charms F,
at the Glaf, Howie.
Orders frum the distant States to be addrefTed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-llreet, Boston.
:£jT Two or three good Glass makers ar* want
ed at the above work*; fnch as can produce re
csmmendations for good behavior, may be fufe of
employ, by application to Mr.GcoKQi L. Lindt,
at the works.. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Grown Window Glass, they Will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boston, Jan. 16. 45 —zaw6w
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, is 3 e.
Cavanagh & Hearri,
Pine-flreet, near the New-Market,
RETURN th»nks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by tfyeir tnremitfir.g attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part'
nerfnip between them and Joftph U. Barry, hai
besn diflalved by thuttral consent. Cavanagh
and Hearnhavejuft received a quantity los St.
Domingo and HondAa« Mahcgony, whictJi they 1
intend to fell on very reasonable tcrmss for calh.
Orders from the country moit punctually ikc
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cut as nfual.
Jan. if. iaw4w
ALL persons indebted to the cflate of Peter
Gill; late of the Diltricfl of Snuthwark, de
seafed, are requeued to make immediate pay
ment to either of the Sublcribers; and those
who have any demands againti laid estate, are
requested to bring in their accounts duly attest
ed to.
JOHN MURPHY,
PEtER SCRAVENDYKE, <. Jlxec ' u -
FARR&LL, } tors "
*
JuJt received a trejh 6upply.
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
AIJAKi'ED to the different chffes of ieamcri;
with an appendix, cbntaining rules a*id ob
fervatioßS for aflilbing the more advanced (ludents
to with perspicuity accuracy,
Br LINDLEY MURRAY.
" TJis is 3 publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeflions in the Title, 'fheappim
dii contains lomc of ihe befl rules for writing e
legantty, and with pr'dpHety, that we recoiled to
hive £een."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully andjudicioufly fele&ctj ; its Srjangement
is dfftindi and well -ndaptcsd to the purpose of in
ftru<fti6n its fexpreftioH is fimplfej perfpicnottft
and accurate, Slcl"
See the character at large in tbt Analytical
Review, July 1796
Eilgh'fh Exertifes,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published by
Lintiley Myrray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts Iff fj>eech, inftancwcrf falfe orthography,
viclationsof the rules of fyrcat, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the tules »eipc4ling
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learntrs, a- well for theufoef schools.
" Wa have been much pleased with the perusal
of these Eitercife.-. They occupy with diftinjuifh
ed excellence a molt important place in the {debit
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
SchoOjs, as well as to all those who are dcGrons of
attainingcotrcAncfs afcd precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review y July *797.
The above Books are for sale at Joseph St James
Ckukshanks book store, No. 87, Market llrect.
January M. 3tawzw.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, eornerof
Second and Cheinut ftreetsj
Price, $-stks of a Dollar,
Obferiwtions t,n certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United Statee for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
tr RIT fK N BY UIMS EL F.
This publication presents a eoncife statement
of the base means praiftifed by the Jacobins of thk
United States to asperse the charadlers-of those
perfotiswho are cbnfideredas hostile to their difor>
ganizing fchetees. It also contains the cor
refponcrente between Mr. Hamilton and Melfrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fnb
jefl of the documents *lorefaid,and a ferics of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between" him and Reynold*,
was the result of a daring eofifpiracy on the part
Of the latter and his alio dates to e*tort money.
EA discount of one third from the retail price
e made in favor of wholesale for
cash. Orders to lfe aifdreffed to Mr youno. '
Avgu.l
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
N,>. is, the corner of Ehefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day ""'l thirty hour brass piniens
and serge work;. Hells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, "Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Out; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* % * Apprentices Wanted.
November f^tntf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD>
Is now in the press, and will be publiflieil*
with all couvejiient expedition, K- v ZfeCHA..
RIAH PoutsoN, juo. No. So, Ciiefnut-ftreet,
Philsidelphi?, where fuifcriptions will continue
to "be received, and at tbe Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcl'als, until tie
work is ready for thefubferibert.
July 18. aawtf
This day is Published,
At the office of the Aurori, No. 112, Market Street,
f Price one dollar ai,d a »alt,] 1
A view of thttondufi of the EXEULTTIVSki
FOREIGN of the United Stat«&, connect
ed with the Million to tbe French Republic during
the ye«n, 1794, c, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,'
i,»te Minister Pter.spo co'isrv to the laid Republic
UlullrateJ by his I NSTRUCTFO.N'S and COR
RESPONDENCE sad o'her authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to tbofe who bny 19
again.
December aj. »f.