of t\)t Bntteo States, -.«■ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1678.J
Mar&al's Sales.
United States, 1 ~
Penn/ylvania DijlriS. 3 •
-1 OTICE is hereby given, that in pursuance of j
a writ to me directed, by the Hon. Richard I y .
Peters, Esq. Judge of the Diftriil Court of the gj
United States, in and for the Pennsylvania Dif- a(
tri&, will be exposed to Public Sale at the Cuflojn
houfe, 00 Monday, the 19th day of January inft.
at 11 o'clock at noon,
i box of Sugar
1 bags of Coffee
1 barrel, }
t half barrel, and > of Limes
1 tub J
2 jars of H«ney
a 6 Pine' Apples
2 kegs of Spirits
I keg of Sugar, and
7 barrels and one half barrel of Sugar
The fame having been libelled againfl, profe
csted and condemned as forfeited, in the said
Court—by
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, ">
17th January, 19 —dt2pht
Cuftom-Houle bales.
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798. Q
ON Monday, the 29th of January, 1798, at 12
o'clock, will be fold by public auftion, at the o
Cuftom-Houfc, in pursuance of the laws in that cafe
made and provided, the following articles of mer- j
char.dize, having been stored more than nine months
and not claimed by the owners orconftgnees thereof;
which articles mayi>e viewed during the space of
three days antecedent to the day of sale, between the i
hours of nine and two o'clock.
FCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
Mp C One <jafe, containing Books and Pamphlets
R P Three casks, containing Girth Web
(D'CJ) CJne cafit, containing Spades and Shovels
W Four casks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas (
P and Beans '
IS One keg of Red Leadj 1
<> WC One crate of Earthen Ware t
BTM Two do. do. i
WL One do and two cases containing Images and <
o. naments for building 1
£rJo mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter i
By P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles ,
WB One cask of Bottled Porter '
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing pieces of 1
Music
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets <
Mr* Au'oley* One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine i
Wj"P One box of Pewttr Lamps
V . <
B One box contaiaing Brofhes ]
G. Bolland. One cask containing afcheefe and some ,
oatmeal
yR One crate of Earthen Ware j
R. 14. One crate of farthen Ware. I
. >"» '3 *"9 -
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
»t the SArmldsftrCCt., '
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the followitj£_
. —frST ATE S.
1. A two flory brick House, with 2 two
story frame Buildings, on a lot 20 feet front and
100 fe«t deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet f jjiare,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for aOO dollars per an
num, and is situated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second-streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. 2. A three flory brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 fset on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best Hands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 10 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This house is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house in at pre
fert let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb.flreet, between Second and Third street,
being 20 feet front and 13a feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. j. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water #reet, where it is five story. It is 10
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars yer annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
*•'•1 one quarter in 14 UJOBths.
Philadelphia, IJ, 1798. 3awtlsF
' Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the Prejident and Managers,
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per Jhare was
declared for thelaji half year, ivhieh <wiil he by
them retained, for the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable toa rejolution <»f the Stock
holders the nth June la/}.
TENCH FRANCIS,. Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia LancaJlerTurnpikeCompy.
January 8 m&<W4-w
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
jflory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trait lane, in the
iownfhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for talle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December i. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application f6r the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B No. 4004, elated July it,1797* the amc
having been lort. N JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec, i.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prjrrfe Rice in lubale and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Tentrijje Wine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bogfhead of paiit
b ruffles.
N. Csf y. Fraztr.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street,
i Nov. 7. dim.
PHILADELPHIA- THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 25, 1798.
Marshal's Sales.
.United States, ">
Pennsylvania DiJlriß )
BY" virtue of an order from the DiUriol Court
of ths UniteJ States, in and f»r the Pennsyl
vania Diftricl, will be exposed to sale at Chefeut *-
Street wharf, onSaturdaythe »7thinfl at n o'clock 5
at noon, for the benefittf the concerned—.viz. J
46 Boxes of window glass
14 do. hollow glass
»94 Straws glass tumbler*
roo Pietes Russia sheeting
118 Pieces ravens duck
55 Pieces fail cloth
i Barrel and one keg of copper uails
9 Hhds of Beef
3 Bbls. Pork I
1 Jack Screws
3» Sails, a fine flays
I Hhd. Vinegar
1 Drip stones
2 Small and one Urge water jars
» Guas with carriages ■
I Old Cable *■
1 Iron hnboon '
2 Side board., i table
I Copper boiler
Coils of cordage
9 Pipes and i hhd. of Gin
The fame having been favgd from the wreSt
of the (hip John, Capt. Folger, and libelled a
gainst for salvage.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, )
Jan.23, 1798. j <
On SATURDAY, 27th inj. \
At 6 o'clock in the evening, will be Sold by Pub- j
lic Vendue, at the Coffiie-houfe,
An elegant House, No. 78, 1
JN Wa jiut-llrect, which Is is feat front, by 17 1 1
feet deep, with a lot adjoining 20 1-2 feet wide, by (
71 feet 9 inebesdeep'; this lot is back of the honic 1
occupied by George Willing, Esq. The house is
completely finifhed in every refped. It is 50 feet
deep, has two large parlours, the front one 14 feet,
the back u by 18 I-X feet ; a handsome drawing
room 14 1-2 by 24 feet ; the rooms belew, the 1
drawing room, and chamber adjoining, have ma- <
hogany doors, and these rooms, as well as the rooms
above them, have a communication with each oth
er ; the height in the fir ft and second stories are Iz
feet, and those rooms have flucco cornices »ndnine
rooms up flairs, besides the garrets, which are di
vided in'» three rooms, a good kitchen, wash and
milk house, shower and plunging baths, a large (
icehouse, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch
alley, that leads into Fourth-ftrcet. The cellars
are laid with lime and floored with two inch plank
and plaiftered : the yard is well paved, and the
house is ciear of ground "«« rented for one (
year for 400 pounds per >
November last. Two brick stables
street, with two coach houses, on \ of th '™ ™
hold two carriages, the other one; the fmalleftfta
ble has room for three, and the largest for Tour
horses: it is 21 f«etfront on Walnut-flreet, y J
feet 3 inches deep ; they have excellent loft'over
them, and are now rented for 100 pounds per an
num ; the cellar i» arched and 1
-
H i-i feet alley, that leads into Fifth-ftreet.
Also, a latg« brick store, 33 feet fronton fourth
street, by 50 deep, which might at a small expence
be turned into a handfofne dwelling house, having
been so contrived in thebnilding: it has 3 yard 48
feet fix inches deep, by 24 wide; has a rain water
pump and nectffary, and the cellarjis laid with two
inch plank, and is now rented at 150 pounds per
annum ; the rent was paid (town for 18 months.
This building is fubjeft to a ground rent ,of eleven ,
dollarsand three quarters per annum 1
A lot situate on the east fide of Fourth-street, 10
feet front by 50 feet, it joins on the end of Dr.
Rust's lot, and has the privilege of a three lest al
ley adjoining, itisfubjeit to a ground rent of fix
dollars per ?nnum.
Purchasers, before the sale, may apply to the
fubferiber, George Mxadi, or
FOOTMAN & CO. auctioneers.
FOR SALE.
By JOHN MILLER, jun. iff Co.
No. 8, Chtlnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
; Baftas Sannas
Guzz uahs TandaCoffaes
' Guzzies Emertics
' Blue Clfiths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
■ Amongst them are a great proportion of the
' manufaAures of Patna.
December I. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-Y'.-rk)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. 2s, feuth Third street,
I An cxtenfive and general afiortment of
y HABERDASHERY, viz.
; Best London milt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worded Bindings,affor-
Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diiper, and
Nuns Thrsad no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflorted White Edgings
~ Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Black nd coloured Chi
regularly afTorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to izd
l e Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattius
e Silk and cotton Wires French Cambriek
Do. d®. Ribbands Scotch do.
"l Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
)( Black brush Feathers Buttons
And a compleat affortmenf of Geods, /uitable
j to the prrfent and approaching feaf»n, at reduced
prices. Dec. 6. ckf
NOTICE.
C ""
A 1.1. persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the l"bfcriber intends to apply for a re
1C newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the of the United States—Me for
w warded them under cover of a letter addrefled to
John Anfley,of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt.
George, whfch left t!his part in June last for Lon
don. But that ship having been capturei.oll her
paflage and fentto France, the above letter and m
clofures have failed in their destination.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26525, 26326, 26327, each for
7/ four (hares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
i(Tued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november 8. 2a\\ 6 w
By John Fen no, N c 119 Chefmtt Street.
. "For Londonderry,
William Whitten, majer.
A f'iusicl; good relfiil. has thf
greater part 'of tier cargo on board, ind will fad as
loon as the navigation permits If speedy
tion is made, a eafk's will 1> ukjn un fr-ighc;
for which, and paSage, if ply the Captain, *t _
Cuthbert's wharf, or the fubferibers. v.
John Shyrin,
Latiden'oerger's wharf, or <
George Dobfon,
No. 15 South 3d Street.
For Freight or Charter,
To any Port in Europe,
ONE hundred andforty-one tons
burthen—Staunch and well blilt, and fails fall.—
For terms apply to ,
Joseph Anthony & Co.
January 17 •
Nicklin Griffith, 0
At their Store on Walnut StreetWharf —
HAVE FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum A
Madeira Wine in pipe 3 and ihds.
Teneriffc do. in pipes
Old Port do. jn hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of cliefls
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and JVJuflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Naiis affortod
Blaok quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and cratts \*
Yellow ochre dry jn casks ;
And at New-York, on Soafd the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, exp«fted round
ae soon as the navigation is opn,
Fine Liverpool Salt te
Coils a
Spanish Brown "j
Venetian Red ir
Purple Brown PAINTS Cl
Patent white v
White load
Red lead J °
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paptr f|
Seaming twine f,
-jfeSrak*" Sbip Diama,
ALSO, ~ '
Brig Amazom. J
The late firm of Philip Nicklin isf Co. u
is now changed to *
NICKLIN V GRIFFITH.
January 1. 1 eol^t^
For Savannah, ii
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING, "
The faft foiling ship P
-feilSr SWI FT ?ACK ET,
Patrick Gribbsn, Matter, j
jying the firft wharf below
,v] ar feet Straet—has handsome ac- (
commodations for passengers—For freight or paf
faee ap»ly to the. Matter op boa/d, or to
N. iff J. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale, a
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia '
and Carolina ludige, MolafTes in hhds, Tejieriffe j
wine, &c. &c i
December 17 ' t
i' Of Anifterdam, !
« The SUp 1
tiJ&kk FARMER, ,
John M'CofLi.ou, Matter; <
WILL fail in a few days, the ]
greater part of her cargo, being 1
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply ts> tlie matter on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wiue in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a ftrperior quality
Fentiniac, T
Sautetne, C Wines in cases
Lunille, S
Prunes in boxes
november 24.
f For Sale or Charter,
J&|iL GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about iaoo barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. Forterms
d *ppiy«
Pragers C 3° Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
i- Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
, d Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
e -A new vessel, with excellent
d accommodations for passengers
Sails on the iotb of December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS W SIMSON.
iVh* have to difpqfe 0/*,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
i, INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD,
t- november 18. S
t Chocolate and Mustard,
0 of afuperior quality manufactured,
t- INGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
'' Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Air ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
suitable for exportation or home confumpiion.
The highefl pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
'' Also for sale, A quantity of Docking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuflians, Shawls, &c, for sale bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
Nq. 98, south Fiont-flreet.
Nov. 97. tn.&th.t.ij.
To be Exchanged for
Brilijh, German, or India Goods, .
! N THE PACKAGE ;
A tract of valuable Land ft,
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co. jn
and containing 10, coo Acres. it
Inquire of the Printer. T1
v, >.?• ' $ ft
—— he
ROS3 iff SIMSON,
in
HAVE FOR SALE, t h.
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and r ' a
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
BengaISUGAR, in tags and boxes ' ■
Jamaica,
St. Vincent,, £ RUM. Ut
and Bengal J i"
300 casks RIOE, ; nd
A parcel of tt«p building RED CEDAR. „
oa - \ L k"
JuftPublifhed,
And to be had aj of MefTrs. Dob
son, Cam pbell, Young and OmajtoD,
ih Phf«a|«lphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure «f Renvtting or Bilious
Fevert. '
To zobich it annexed, ' _
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praSice of j
4 different authors: ajid an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fatfts and refle&ions relative to ■ UI
the Syrw/bui Ifleroidrs, or Yellow Fever, which Wl
has occifioned so much diflrtffsand mortality, at in
differeSt periods, in fevcral of the seaport towns
of the United States of America.
B y WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia Coll«ge of l'hyf;ci»ns,
and Membcrof the American Philosophical So- q.
ciety, See. *3m^
\
Salisbury Estate.
—~ %' -
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrast his bufi- 1
ness, offers this Ellate for sale, on moderate ce
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, pe
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift St
Mill, with two pair of stones; also agood Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conneS- t j,
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces ec
were lately built tor the purpose of catting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres C
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the befl Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfatiured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal j
to any in the world ; for not owe of sixty-nine guns J
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored Q |
into 3a pounders, have failed on proving. The fuu
at
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land» p'
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan- at
tage that can rafult from a plenty of water issuing lii
from a large natural pond, very neap the Furnace, p,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the ttoek and uteaGls, and have p»fTeflioii
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for goinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia,; David Brooks, E(q. one of the Reprefentafcives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on "I
thcpremires, orx^*W«"■ if 1..■ v...i.. —1 .1
WILLIAM NEILSON. n
Dae. i. 3 awtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64. South Seomd-flreet—
Tickets ill the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- d
- F
ton, No. 11. and Paterfou Lotteries, and informs- u
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte- n
ries aothorifsd by law in any of the States of the fl
Union. !l
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and N
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of l^P^f, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
; by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ, \
RTpacher ot Vocal and instrumental Music, 'I
E-rURNS hislinccre thanks to the Ladies and t
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very f
liberal encouragement finee his residence in this ci- 1
ty, and refpe&fully informs his friends and the pub- (
lie generally, that, in confeqnence of the rsquoft ,
«f some of his friends, he has opened a Musical ,
School at hishoufa in Sprnce Street No 174, where (
he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.— ,
He deems it unneceffarry to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti t
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention 1
and zeal are much excited in an aflcmbly, where <
numbers are in pursuit of the fame object. Hi 6 |
arrangement is such, that an interference of the ;
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies ,
ls and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to ,
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. Apilications will be thankfully receiv- ,
ed at hi« houffe, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known,
d Dec. 7. *lweod
_ James C. Sis Samuel W. Fisher, I
AT THE.R STORE,
N0.113, corner of Arch and FrAnt streets,
BArE FOX SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, afTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
ar Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
3r ' Ditto Pondichei*ry and. Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffctics
4000 pices. Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
~ from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, afTorted, which they will difpole of cheaper
than any in the city.
November aB. jawtf
sr , -
r ' The History of Pennsylvania,
e', By ROBERT PROUD,
ft. Tg now in the' press, and will be publifhed 5
JL with all convejiient expedition, by Zecha
ld riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-flrcet, j
of Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue !
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tUe printed proposals, until the
et. work is ready for the subscriber».
July iS. aavrtf
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY and teftamert of
Witiiiir H. vskam, deceofed, and pqfl-X
---fion given immediately,» valuable property in Arch
ftreft. between Third and Fourth (Lecu, confut
ing of the house. No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere-Scd, a ftaWr, and other improvements. —
The house is feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. the fame breadth as the
house and ioj feet deep, with a weH of water and
a very £Zp?.ci6us t ciliern, both with puopi
in goep repair. The {tabic ftaiM# on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four borfes and a car
riage. This property enjoysthe perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Strif-t. It» central position and the
advantages it poffeifes with refpe.fl to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfan wishing to poflefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Strtet—of
Robert Hxysham,
or £ Ailing Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayrb, )
January II §_
VV. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has ftudiad several years under one of
ths most eminent matters in that science)
INFORMS his friends that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
Week. Likewifc, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flow .rs, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in on! famtfy.
A line diredled to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, wilt be immediately attended to.
January 9. §iw
&■ The owners of the Brigantine
a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in lall De
cember, may receive interesting information ref
pefling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
*„ * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news
papers. J an " 3\
N O T i C'E.
To holders of J AMES GREENLEAF's
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements,
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late uaavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them,/they
Ire ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within Gxtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be cenfidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. d6ot
LOST,
TN this City, on Sunday November 16. 1707,
- ri-H Mainrrn »i>ct>r Book, «ontaining 8
notes of hand to Read & Picrii, as follows,
John Duffield's, for 441 dollars 73 cents.
William M'Laws 435 37
George Way's 177 19
John Doaks 11 yo
Edward Clayton's 60
Do. 3J
Do.
John Brown's
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianote—an or
der upon Walter Franklin,Efq. in tavor of Charle*
Read, and fumdry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforefald
notes of hand being ft«p'd, a reward of 15 dollars
shall be paid to the person or persons bring
ing said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to
Read and Pierie, No. 65, Cfcefiiut Street and no
qucftions alked.
January 19. 'eed^t.
War-Office of the United States,
January the \ft t 1798.
WHEREAS frauds have been pra&ifed, in
obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
.to the Officer* and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the production of forged instruments.
To check m future such impositions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all persons, having claims
fpr bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any inflrument
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
refpe<stive claims to the War Office, on or before
the firfl day of January 1799 in order that such
claims may be duly examined, adj*fled and deter
mined upon.
'l'o fubflantiate such claims, a striA observance ot
the rules heretofore issued from th» War Office will
be indifpenlable ; and in addition to what is requii>
ed by the said rules, tha certificate of the acknbw
-1 ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mull
also set forth the place of residence and occupation
• of the claimant or person makingfuch acknowledge
1 munt; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
is by a witnef« or witnesses, their place or places of
residence must be set forth in like manner-
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
'Jan. 7. d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to recur tp the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1506 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufefulinftruilioti, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, executed with ac-
S) curacj ai:d dilpatch. eoim nav.ij.
r - Imported (via New .York) on the
r ship Hf ro, trom Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefßut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Mfcharagonges Charconna Dortnv
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muflint
Gillisßomals Bandannoes
Nill&s & Penfialbes Chafla Romals
t) Blue cloth Hair ribbon
lc MullMulihankerchiefs Palempores
I'atna do. Banares Opium
I.offer Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 17 i.tuth^w
IVCLVMS XIII.~JrjSHtNJTOK WTI JiKK So. 11.
List of P*tzes *ki> Blanks.
146 th Day's Drawing—Nflv. 18.
A'o. Do!j. ho. Dots. No. Dolt. No. Doh. •
is') 17034 x *54-i3 17*34 *
• '99 79? * 16148 .18204
816 zj no6i 139 380 *
*■>3 s c 8 j*7 454
nrz . 771 x 549 397 5 1
1:7 841 7i; 40148
2ft x 974 ?7177 9"9 i
. 54! 12733 *»* * 4*45 1 * «
Xil 851 18056 x 41246 |
' »i~6 13076 501 * 4
64' 5J3 s -9 43» l 5
724' x 587 77 1 x 563
7-5* x 949 9 ,s 7 ,g
7-9 15486 30538 943
3*56 655 880 44209
357 SOS 31050 220
640 16845 230 549 x
635 1704t 754 567
*;3 X 169 3»I83 950
4T21 JO4 X 16S 45195 *
21", 74! 365 219
576 Bjß x Si 1 494
846 18097 x 811 5-1
5221 741 33160 880
30$ 19137 383 10 467^1
438 x 717 x 45 1 749
6031 x 83S 631 47759
7120 x 878 54284 x 48058
579 2C3_no 661 '46
636 381 79* '9J x
671 587 3i657 4CX x
73' 77' 839 475 x
8164 885 X 46163 x 842
302 x JII6I x 72." 49701 to
9£9 411 x 878 851
9t»i6 11436 9'7 97®
ioi<i x 13981 x 930
664 '<447 973
147h Day'« Drawing—Nov. 27.
-138 14462 x 29261 38019
614 763 593 261
730 x n6BB x 943 x 168
991 16019 x 30010 581 x
Jll3 17818 912 911
23b x 18010 31070 38655
697 x 800 x 269 , 40001
908 x 20*56 33077 x 518 x
3>31 3°5 398 831 X
812 437 469 42853
3099 <TS9 633 4309'
-#4SL -«'* 5^
6395 13' 2 3 34071 x 44018
689 508 141 C 94 x
7747 24207 20 197 45413
9646 587 476 1J 46451
'llO4B 611 487 506 x
.150 707 935 * 47474
768 x 26397 x 35151 506
11887 832 495 * 573
1J593 37082 x 36739 604
64* x 622 x 37J04 734 x
777 836 x 471 49313
992 866 760 x 443
BALL.
Mr. Francis refpe&fully informs hii scholars, ,
zr.d tl.'e public 111 general, that his third pra<£>-
ifinir Bal! will be thi* eveningthe 15th, at the
iiewAflemblyßnftttii South FourthStreet,between '
Chefnut and Walnut street—Ladies tickets to be '
had by applying to the scholars of Mr. Francis, 1
or at his hnnfe No. 70 Vorth Eighth Street.— <
Gentlemen's tickets one dollar each* to be had 1
of Mr. Francis, at the Academy, or at his house.
Mr. Francis likewise inform! the Subfciibers (
to the Seleifl Ba/ls, that the next will be on
Tuesday th« 30th —Those fubferibers who hive
not yfct received their tickets, are requested to
apply for them as aoove.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as u
•
fan. 22. ajt (
DON JOSEPH IGNATIUS Dfc VIAR, ]
His Catholic Majcftv's Confut-General and Com mi f
fioner to the United States.
WHEREAS, bv the 17th article of the existing
Treaty of fiiendfhip, limits and navigation, ] 1
between his Caiholie Majeft«r and the United States of j
America, it is stipulated, '"That fitch (hips, being la- ;
4t den, are to be provided not only with pa(Tpott?,but i J
" al'o with <erti6eates containing the several partieu- ' '
Jars of the cargo, the place whence the fliip failed, I
•• that so it may be known whether any forbidden or 1
41 contraband poods be on board the fame, which cer- j
«• tificates shall be made out by the officers of the place '
" whence the ship failed, in rhc accustomed form : *
and if any one lha'l think fit or defirabie to express (
" in the said certificates the pcrfons to whom the j
« goods on boaid belong, he may freely do so ; witb
*< out which rcq ifnes, tliey may be sent to one of the '
«' ports of the other contrasting party, and adjudged i
•• by the competent tribunal, actotding to what is a- r
•' b ve set forth, that all t w e circumdances of this o
" miflion having been well examined, they (hall be *
44 adiudgfd to be legal prizes, unlets they (hall gve t
44 legal (avis faA ion of'their property, by teftimpay e f
44 quivalem " —Now therefore, in order to prevent
the improper capture, ieizure or detention of any A- T
/nencer vessels trading agreeably to said treaty, by a
his Otfrolic majtfty's cruisers or other armed veflels, C
Ido hereby give notice, that such documents as are r
required iu the said article, (hall be granted to those <
who may apply at the office of the Confolate General k
or at any oth rof the Consulates throughout the Uni- C
ted State*. J m. 83 6c t
For Sale, 1
A complete file of the Philadelphia Gazette {or C
the year 1797. £
.Alio, several other files of Gazettes, published 0
in this city, for the last 9 months of the year 1797. {j
EHquire at no. 94, north Front-flrett
January 24. 3 t c
All Persons 1
V
Having any dtraan Js aga<nft the Estate of the .
latf Captain George Irwin, are reqntfled to
brinj in their arcoiinti pioperly attested, on or f
bef.>'e the f»rft day of January next ensuing 1
and those who are indebted to said estate are so r
, li.i.edto mike i«r.mediate payment to t
SARAH IRWIN, Adminiflratrix.
no v. it) 1707 i j
Princeton—iS'ew-Jerfey. v
To be Sold, e
'I "H 4.T neat asd convenient House in which J;
1. th: late Mrs. Ann Witherfpeon, now Mrs. c
Ann Walker, lived; together with all the appur- k
teoances. The house is two (lories high, of frame f=
work, and painted. There are are four rooms 1
ar.d an entry on the lower floor, u>d five ro*ms I
on the second floor. Ihe cellars are dry, and the f
ga:ret fpaeicus'—Th« back yard is pared with
ft one*. In it are a well of excellent water, an
oreii, a fmuke house, and house for afl^is —and
behind it a carriage house; hayloft, grarary, and
c nv -:>'ent (tables, with four ftalla for faorfes, and h
four for neat cattle. The Ipt is 6ofeet wide upon {
the flreet and 154 feet d.ep,fomewhat more than
one half of which is made isto a kitchen garden £
us an excellent foil. '
For ttrtns,which will be made very reasonable, c
apply to the rcTcrcnd t
Samuel S. Smith. f
Jannarr 19 lawaw f
liyJon and Yeung"Hylcn.Tea. 3
a lew chetb of eiccllent quality, Tot t>at\ cor
ner of Second an; 4 Pine \
lseccni!»er aft. fctf \
CONGRESS.
. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
I
Debate »n Foreign Intert'lurfe.
1 FRIDAY JANOARY 19.
[Con'iPued froni v<-ffetday's Gazeftr.]
Mr. Gallatin said, the committee had
; been told, in the course of the debate, by
c < some gentlemen that this attempt to reduce
I the number of our miniftera was unconftitu
' ] tional; by others, that it was inexpedient,
and even some gentlemen who agreed to the
general expediency of themeafure, believed
it would beattended withinconvenience from
our present foreign relations.
In relation to the couftitutionality of the
" thing, he did not believe, whatever doftrine
was suppOrted with refpeft to treaties, that
upon this occaiion the eommittee (hould be
told that they wtre interfering with ►bft con
stitutional power vested in the Prefdent. It
was true, that he had the genera.'power of
appointing ambafladort; but it was not less
true, that the legislature had the sole and
exclitfive power to provide forall the expenc
es of the union. Hence a'ofe the idea of
ours being a governmentoo r departments, so
it formed as to be a check upon each other.
K But the gentleman front Connefticut (Mr.
" N. Smith) said there vas no such thing as a
check of department?; that each was dif
tc tin<k ; and, though had checks within
itfclf, none of them checked the other. And
to illuilrate his poutioa, he introduced the
simile of a clock, at the fame time that he
told them that the Executive department
was the Main Spring which put the clock
in motion, whilst Mr. G. supposed he meant
that the other branches w«re merelyithe hands
which moved 9s they were diredted. But if
there was any aft which could not be done
hut by all the branches, each had its share
<■ in deciding upon the propriety of it, Wheri
1 a treity was made, it had been argued that
that hotife had nothing te do but catty it
into effeft; but here it was said, that the
I,„tr. .. esc DounO to provide tor"every Am
bassador appointsd ; and if, by withholding
salaries, they obliged the President to fend
Ministers Resident, where he wilhed to fend
Miaifters Plenipotentiary, they would aft
inconsistently with the Constitution. Tho'
gentlemen might make Speeches on this
fubjeft, they mult know that where the le
gislature had a right to aft, it had a right
to deliberate and to use its discretion. That
is was better for the interest of the Nation
r that the Departments should aft in union,
he allowed, and also that it was right to give
the support to the Executive which the dig
•i nity and happiness of the nation required.
With tflpSSlWlty bv .
ameudment, he would a/k whettcrany thing
e had been said to (hew that the exteufion of
i our Foreign political con--
- duce to the greater happiness of the U. S.
d Our present critical situation was not owing
as had been ftatedby the gentleman from S.
s Carolina (Mr. Harper) to our Commercial
Intercourse, but from the operation of trea
-0 ties and our political conneftion. No truth
was more strongly impressed upon his mind,
1- than that the extension of our political in
tcrcouifc wftli Forcigirimtixfßß was highly
_ dangerous to us. And when the gentleman
from Connecticut (Mr. Dana) charged those
r " who advocated this amendment with address-
R ing the galleries, and people out of doors,
1, | rather than the members of the committee,
» f ! Mr. G. supposed he believed the public o
] pinion was with them, and that it was this
I conviftion which produced the declaration.
I,» He said he thought the gentleman right, and
lr . that the people would read their fpecches,
e attend to the fubjeft, and decide with them
: againftincteafing our diplomatic interGOurfe.
Is Could it be said that any good had arisen
' from this source? It was true treaties had
e been made; but no treaty had been made
d since tht adoption of the present Govern
ment, by Ministers resident at any court at
e the time. If any benefits were derived to
e the country from the British treaty, they
muftbe attributed to the Envoyextraordina
' ry, and net to our Minister at that court ;
y and when our treaty with Spain was con
, eluded, it was necessary to fend a minister
* resident at another court to do the tufiDefs.
■j Since our treaties were always made by spe
cial envoys, what advantage could it be of,
to have numerous ainifteri plenipotentiary
in Europe? In the present critical situation
r of that country, agitated as it was to the
center, was it not to be apprehended tbat
1 our ministers would participate, in some de
. gree in the party spirit which there abound
ed, and rank themselves on one fide or the
other, which would have a tendency to draw
this country into a vortex from which we
were so happily separated by the Atlantic.
We were the only nation, he said, who pof
r fefied a Government on a firm foundation,
, in which civil and religious liberty vras fully
> recogqized; we, therefore, enjoyed, what
the people of Europe were seeking after.
We have nothing to wish, except to remain
. ill our present situation. Why then, (hould
we hazard the being involved in European
broils? He had before stated Consuls were
equal to every commercial regulation, and
1 he had heard nothing to change his opinion.
. Seeing, therefore, that these Diplomatic a
. genti were rather dangerous than ufeful, he
, thought it time toput aftop to their increase.
> It might be said, that in this opinion he dif
; feied from the Executive. He felt the
J weight of this remark, and it was with some
I diffidence that he cxp»e(Ted it ; but it was
! his opinion, and thereforehe couldnot with
hold it. Whether the President had any
' information which led him to a different o
| pinion, he could not tell ; he could only aft
from what he knew, and he (hould not be
, deterred from forming an opinion because a
nother department of the government might
poflefr. information which he had not. He
should follow his own opinion, unbiassed by
any authority.
But it was said, though it might be pro
per to diminish our foreign iutercourfe, it
was improper to do it at present. He a
greed it wsuld be wrong to do it viole'iilv.
tint Wa? not the intentioii of
the mover of th>' amendment ; but h# couid
no objedlion to faying at tliis time when
the extension should cease With refpe£l
to the gentlemen now abroad, they knew
when they accepted their offices, they were
liable to two events, viz. to the rccal of the
Prefidtnt, and to a refufal of the legislature
to renew the law relative to foreign inter
' course when it expired. It would, there*
- fore, injoffice to them to agree
to the amendment.
' Gentlemen considered the saving of a few
■ thousand dollars a year, a paltry economy,
and that it was necefTary to appoint men of
11 talents fully competent to •offices of this
kind. He agreed that competent persons
c o tight to appointed ; bht ministers resi
dent at a fMaty of 4<s co dollars a year were
• pofTefieda/ the-fame powers with ministers
plenipotentiary—the onlytiifference betwixt
them was in their ftife of living. To low
[ er the salaries, therefore, would not dimin
ish the competition for these He
' did not know that the one salary would
command higher talents than the other ;
" nor did he suppose tllat when our ministers
1 resident at Portugal and Holland were cloth
' ed with tke commissions of ministers pleni
potentiary at Madrid and Berlin, and of
course their salaries doubled, that their ta
-1 lents received the fame proportion of in
crease.
' Mr. G. infilled ihat his former statement
with respect to the appropriations for this
: objeft were right, notwithstanding what
had been asserted by the gentleman from S.
Carolina to the coritrary.
But the advocates of this motion,'had
bteu charged with improperly drawing in
-1 to view the ftfbjtcl of executive patronage,
and when speaking upon this fubjeft, he
himfelf had been charged with mating an
" illiberal and unfounded charge." That
' *hat he said might be incorred, was prob
-1 able, frtnri -the information given by the
gentlciaybirom S. Carolina, but that what
he said wai illiberal and unfounded, he de
nied. Mr.G. said it was true, that the
■ sum of mor*y proposed to be saved by this
amendment was net large- Gentlemen might
if they pleaftd, call it a paltry saving ; but
having firft tftablifhed the fa£l, that these
officers were not only unnecessary, but dan
gerous, though the saving was not large,
it ought to be made. Bnt it was said that
out government was so pure, so untainted,
that the patronage which was wished to be
guarded again ft can have no effect in this
country ; and the gentleman from Connec
ticut had said the charge cotald have no
ground, exc/** V- b ,' s (Mr. G's)
ftandard. Heßcnct t « t ha(
the observations on this fubjeS had nothing
to do with either of their hearts. He
should not expedl much credit to be given
to any declarations which he might make
on that floor as lo the purity b{ his mo
tives. Indeed, he took it to be his duty
to state his reafensfor"or against any qoef
tion which came before that house, and af
ter delivering them in the best manner he
was able, to leave thsm to have the effeft
they deserved. He thought the gentleman's
rcpnark, unworthy of notice,
but he again called fupon the committee to
consult tbe hifteryofall other nations whose
governments were, in any degree, fimilarto
ours, and it would be seen, that an undue
extension of executive patronage had been
the deftru&ion of them all. But was there
no reason to guard against this patronage
upon the gentleman's own ground ? There
certainly was ; for, according to their doc
trine, the power of the executive was un
bounded in its nature, and without check,
as they fay the PreCdent has a right to ap
point as many ministers as he pleases, and
that the legislature is bound to provide their
salaries. When such a doftrine was avow
ed, was it not right, he asked, to state all
the conferences to which it led ? He tho't
it was.
Again, he would ask, whether the ex
perience of this government lir.d not shewn
that this patronage, so far as it related to
the legislature, was more dangerous than a
ny other. In the last four years, five min
isters had been sent to Etn-ope, four of
whom had been taken from the legislature
of the United States—one, he believed,
after the periSd for which he was ele£ted
was expired. Combine with this faft, that
it is the duty of tht executive to chufe men
for office only froito those whose opinions
are consonant to its own, and look at the
Gtuation of members of Congress. They
fee written, in legible characters, " There
is no hope of being appointed to office, except
your opinions be in conformity to those of the
executive of the United States."
If, said Mr. G. in the youth of our coun
try and government, we 1 do not feel the ef
fedi of this kind of influence, as it had
been experienced in other countries, it is
owing solely to that cause, and he would
venture to fay there was rio other legislature
in existence upon which such a faft would
not make some impreflian ; and if it did
not make any here at prefcnt, were thev to
suppose- that this country was so much more
favored by providence than others, that
the fame effefts might uot, in process of
time, be produced here, as had been pro
duced by fiwiilar causes, in other nations ?
And ought they not to giiird against it in
time ? lie thought prudence directed them
to do so.
With relpefl ta thdlttberal and unfounded
charge which-ah Taid he had made.—
When the gerjUriah from S. Carolina had dat
ed, that lince the appointment of an cmbafla
dor to Berlin, nothing hid taken place which
could induce u«s to change our views- He, in
answer, dated, that there were other realuns,
l and then, Hot as it he were making any new
j discovery, asked if such a fa<St were n >l recol
lefied ; but, at the fame time, acquitted the
gentltjnaa alluded to ot under undue iin
preffions. Indeed he kuew that gentleman's
cpinxn lo well on matters, of this k:nd, that he j
was certain he would save votfd the money,;
wr-oever might have been appointed. But he'
j drew the conClusion that ha kuew the fail that !
J he was to be appointed to the office atthetime j
■ f y
. If that wis an illiliti a' concUifisn, ht wasgui'-
sty I but when a man fuppirted art appropria-
I tion to day, and three days after was appointed
to the office contemplated by it, it waj difficult
II to fippol'ehe knew nothing of it at the time
' The gentleman !rom S. Carolina had said it
v appeared from the journals>hat he did not know
e of it ; but he supposed, notwithllaading, that,
c mere than three days were neceflfary for the
e arrangement >-f fucb a bufjnefs. But it was fup
poferf he meant to make an illiberal attack upon
that g-n'lem.in ; the truth was, he did'not mean
the attack up~n the perfsn appointed, hut a
c gainfl the perfort riialti' g the appointment. —
He conceivedtheapp«>int»ient improper; but he
t exprefTeHhimfelfasrfefir.-.'elyishewa*able Now
lie was put upon this h ad, he mart go farther.
£ He found iii the confutation thtf following
clause : " No senator, or reprelentative, (hall,
s during the time ftr which he wis elected, be
5 appointed to any civil office, under the authsri
- ty of the United States, 'jjkichfhal! have been
: created, or the emoluments of which'/bull biive
3 been encreafed, during such time." And here he
t would ask gestieinen wiio thought executive pa
tronage oufht nrt to bt feared, why rhe fram
ers of our conftitutiun inferred a clause of this
" kind, if they had not feared this patronage ? It
- was to this claufo of the conriitution, and to
I n«ithing else, that he had reference, in the allu •
■ tion which he had made j and though the ap
-5 porntment mijht not be expressly agairift the
letter of the constitution, it was certainly against
its /firit.
' He would make only an additional remark in
1 relation lo expediency. It had been said that
■ topafa this amendment in our prefeat (Situation
with foreign countries, woold ten-d to (hew an '
exilting division betwixt the Executive of the
United States and the people. Thi6 argument
might be brought at all times, a» the occafious
' were not unfrequent in which the several branch
es of govern nentdifferedin opinion; norwas this
to be lamented.it was natural, and what could
not be avoided. But it was said that those gov
ernments with whom we were eonnefled, might
take umbrage at a measure of this kind ; and
that when foreign countries lent ministers of a
certain 'grade to us, we were bound by the forms
cis etiquette to ret urn to them toiuillers of the
fame rank. To do thi«, would be to d 3 fome
tbing more than what the prefidentof the Unit
ed States might require them to do, it was oblig
ing the legislature to follow, not only the will
the prcfident, but the whims and caprices of
every foreign nation who choie, from what rea
son nobody ceuld tell, to fend ministerial- cha
raflers to this country. To support an expente'
of this kind, he believed, would be making a
little.too free with the treafsry of the United
State-.
Gentlemen who supported this amendment
had keen charged with using declamation j yet,
said hi, those who thus charge us, tell the com
mittee, that we are persons ujho ivijb this ctun
try tamely to submit to the luill of a foreign na
titn ! He would alk whether, or not, this was
declamation ? H« alked what connection f«b
---! mining to the will of a foreign nation, had with
this amendment ? and what kind of difference it
could make in the termination of our present
' negociation, QTfiaiJir condudl hereafter, whe
thecillii aj«*ci>dment palled or not ? He could
tee none ; and when gentlemen were told they
mjde speeches to catch the ears sfthe populace,
or vulgar he thought they might with propria
ety reply, that nothing which had fallen from
them was more calculated for this purpose, than
what fell from the gentleman from S. Carolina,
(Mr. Harper.) /
Mr. N. Smith denied that he had compar
to to the main ffcria£ of a clock,
and re ftateet what he biJ laid refptiVim; thedif
ft rent branches of government being mdepett-'
dent of each «ther.
The committee r.ofe asd hid leave to fit a
gain.
FXggjMV
MONDAY—- JAHV AR Y 22.
The House having again resolved itfelf into a Com
mittee of the Whole, on the Bill providing the
means of Foreign Intercourse, and Mr. Nicho
las's amendment bcii.g under consideration,
Mr. Griswold said, ifinftead of redu
cing the number of our foreign Miuiifers
Plenipotentiary, it had been the intention of
the present amendment, to make an enquiry
into the reasonableness of the salaries at pre
sent allowed to our Foreign Agents, be
should most cheerfully have gone into the
investigation, as he believed it was a fubjeft
upen which the house bad a full right to le
gislate; but when he heard Gentlemen de
clare that this was not their objeft, but
that it was their intention to check a pow
er which the constitution had placed in the
Executive, the motion would meet his de
cided negative.
The ground which gentlemen had taken
went to declare, that though the Constitu
tion had said that the President, with the
advice of the Senate, should appoint Am
balTadors and other publie Ministers, the
Gentleman from Virginia and others, fay
that he should not do this; that they will tic
their hands so as to put it out of his power
t» execute this provision of the Constitution.
So that in this question the people of the
United States and the Constitution were on
one fide, and the Gentleman Virginia,
and his friends on the other. For himfelf,
he had no difficulty in deciding, where such
were the parties.
If past experience had not tatight the
house that attempts were frequently made
to invade the Constitutional powers of the
Executive, such a motion as the present
wbuld produce surprise; but, as former at
tempts-os that kind had not only been made
but repelled as they ought, he trusted the
fame iflue would take place on. the present j
occasion.
Gentlemen had dated our Constitution as
filled with balances and cbecks, and that
different departments were intended to
check each other. He allowed that each
had checks, within itfelf: but if the depart
ments were to check each other, the govern
ment could not proceed? and however this
d.jftrine might be difcufTed with metaphys
eal fubtlcty, its tendency was to flop the
wheels of government. He hoped this doc
trine of checks which had been introduced
into the house by the gentleman from Penn
sylvania (Mr. Gallatin) would not extend
itfelf in this conntry, as it contained more
mifchiefs than Pandora's box. But suppose
for the fake of difcuflion. this dodlrine were
admitted, and that the house had a right to
check the Executive in the exerclfe of its
Constitutional powers, would it be proper
to exercise it on the present occasion? Was
it, even in the most peaceable times, pro
| per to curtail our Diplomatic Corps, since
! our Commerce fpveads to all parts of the
; world, and disputes tauft necefiarily arise,
!- which could be removed only ir, tl 4e ; nUr '
*- fereucc of our Ministers. Gentlemen ailed
"u ged that this could be done by Confulj ; it
e rtrucjc him not. Who were these Confuf s >
; t Men of refpeftability adoubtedly; but mtre
,r monied men, pursuing private ohjedts for
it. the purposes of gain, who pofleflcd neither
leisure nor ability to manage a buflnefs of
this kind. Diplomatic Agents, he said,
2 were uniformly employed in all countries!
2- except, indeed, in Turkey, or in the tyran
_ nical States of Barbary; States which he
ic truited Gentlemen would not produce for
w the United States to imitate. If even it
r ' Should b« proper, in such a state of things,
S would it be properat this time? Was the pre
sent a state of tranquility and peace ? Were
our affairs going on well; was not Europe
7! ponvulffd to the centre > Did,not every day
produce a revolution or a maflacrei And
rt were we unconne&ed with Europe? t)id
'' not our carry us there, aad was
'* not our capital there? Vet our Diplomatic
I, Agents are to be discontinued, and our com,
0 nierce left to Shift for itfelf, and in cafe
1 of disputes no explanations could be had.
»- The business was to be dropped at once;
■ and what was worse, it was to be done be
cause the Legislature placed «o confidence
„ in the Executiveofthegavernment—-bccanfe
lt one department of government was opposed
n to the other, which had the appearance of a
n nation fighting againfl itfelf. Were gentle
e men desirous that such a pidture of our situ
ation Should cross the Atlantic ! He tho't
n ° gentleman could fay this would be afting
s prudently.
d But, notwithstanding these confide'rati
-- ons, gentlemen (till fay tt>is motion ought
if to be agreed to, because the Executive is
« already poflVfFed of immense patronage,
m which is Spreading its mfiuence through e
. very department, and is become so alarrain-T
.. as to make it necessary to Sacrifice every co n b
t- iideration in order to have it lessened. When
he heard a language of this kind, he could
" scarcely refrain from smiling. Whit, h*
_ asked, was this alarming influence ? It could
L _ not be doubted that in some governments,
e . where the appointments were numerous, and'
a where the executive was a permanent eSta
d blifhment, immense influence might be ac
quired. But what was the Situation of our
executive ? It was true it had the power of
,! appointing to office ; but the offices were
not very desirable, and the execution of
„ some of them Was atteuded with obloquy
.« and reproach ; besides, the duration of unr
>- executive was limited to a four years Icafe.
h And yet gentlemen charge this executive
* wi'h being possessed of an influense which
, they foretel will prove the definition of gov
"d ernment. Such opinions he could only con
y fider as mere chimeras of the brain, support
ed upon no rational ground.
But gentlemen went farther, and said
n that this power had already been actually a
" as the executive, in his appointments
' to office, had refpeft to the opinions o{
.. those whom he chose. He cpnfeffed.Ujat ,
he had thought, from some apuointrqeau
f- whtcti n«a-oeeii made. that the jPhlUfnt'
"BacThot adopted the determiiialiju s
some gentleman were of opinoiYhe bad, tho
he acknowledged it was a determination
which every real friend of the government
mtift wish to fee adopted. Could it be fee
lievedj .that* the President would not.
Ie some refpeft to the opinions of the menjie
i- employed ? Gentlemen could not Ectcvf
this. What ! employ men wliofe very o
pinions and principles led to dilorder !—ta
* appoint men to office for thepurpofeofprt
-11 serving order peace, whose very opini
y oris lend to disorganization and confufion \
■' Was this to be done ? Me thought not ;
e and if the determination of attending to
the opinions of men appointed, had not been
•• adopted, it ought to bs adopted. Indeed
he had been led to believe, that there was
a class of men in this country, who, from
1 the sober conviflions of their minds, being
convinced that most of the measures of gov
e ernment we;re wrong, had determined not
to accept of any office under it, and by that
means assist in its execution ; but ifheright
n ly understood the gentleman fro.4 Georgia
(Mr. Baldwin) he supposed he had been
e deceived in this refpedt, as he Seemed to fay,
that they were not only willing, but defi- ,■*
: rous of accepting offices uader
■" He could notTiave believed this, as it fijp
~ posed a baseness of character which he had _
r hoped did not exitt in the United States.—
What ! were gen lemen who had been unt
e formly opposed to every measure of govern
ment, now ready to Step in a»d take part in
? the execution of that government ? Were
' they willing to become the juSlifiers of those
1 measures which they hr.ve heretofore ur.i-.
formly declared to be wrong ? He had hi
e therto refpefted this class of men, becauie
L * he believed they aifted from condition ; but
e if they were about to add hypocrisy to their
c other crimes, it was a proof of their total
want of integrity. Indeed, for a man to
" fay administration was right, when he be
" [lievedit was wrong, was to prove that lie
C 1 had no confctcnce. He thoug«t, therefore,
| it. was highly proper to chufemen only mio
s office who would aft from principle.
[ K- concluded, therefore, upon ertry
, ground, that the motion was wrong. Mr.
G- said he could not Sit down, without no
ticing some sentiments which tell from tu«.
s gentleram from Virg.Gia, which wotea.t
rious ,al'pe£t, auditeuiud to aiqa «t tne very
, fxistehce of <»tir governiaent. _ I hat' gen
. tlemau begun his Speech br telling the houie
J thatallreprcfeiUativi republics natura..y :en
. ded to corruption ; and that republics were
i capable of attaining more tyranny t
e monarchy, and more opprefHon than r
. tifms. [Mr. Nicholas explained whaL
; he had faid.]Mr. G. inGfted upon being
5 correG i.i his Statement ;. bvt I'C Said tie
3 gentleman did not Slop here, riiereme y
r for these evils, he said, was only in Kf
s minorities —in Short, that the ftw were to
. be set. again(l the tr.afly. This \ras de
. nouneing republics with Vengeance itwer.t
; to' tht: very foundation »f our government.
} It was a vyhich be never expectedtoltrartn that —it w" adoflrinevvliiclt
went to fay, that no reprefetitatfve republic
oaght to exist. But, he firmly believed,
that instead of depending upon minorities,
the people of this country would always de
pend upon majorities, whom, he doubted
not, would continue to preserve things as
they ooght to be. That the few ought to
be attended to, in preference to the many
was a doftrine which might suit aristocracies
but it would not do for this country. He
did not fee bow this observation wasconneft
ed with the gentleman's motion ; but he
thought it was an attack which ought not
to pass unnoticed, which mull b,e his apolo
gy for the digrefiion which he had made
in these remarks.
Mr. Bayard began his obferva'ions by
remjrking, that the gentleman from Vir
ginia had said, that it was not his deftgo
thrt' his motion should have an immediate
effed upon the minilters at present employ
ed. If the gentleman was sincere in his a
vow»l, it was clear that he did not under
stand his own motion : for, whatever amend
merit was introduced into the third fie&ion,
whith the gentleman had intimated might
bef» amended as to give the regulation a dif
tantoperation, as it only related to the sura
of money to be appropriated, it would not
enable the President toemploy a tninifter ple
nipotentiary, besides those at London and
Pari/, at 3 higher salary than 4,5000 dol
lar*^
S«me gentlemen have said, it was idle to
talk about this house having the power at
the fame time to use their discretion. He
tonlended that the power of appointing mi
nifies was vested in the President, and the
hou/e had no right to believe he would abuf*
this power. It had been supposed by the
gcitieman from Pennsylvania.that he might
appointanindefinite number of ministers, and
wei-e the house in that cafe, he asked, blind
ly .0 appropriate for them? This queflion
wai predicate*} tipon an abuse of power,
whiil the eonftitution supposed it would be
execated with fidelity. Suppose he were to
ftatethe queflion in an opposite light. Let
.it be imagined that this couatry has a mis
understanding with some foreign power, and
that the Executive should appoint a minif
tcr, but the house, in the plenitude of its
power, should refufe an appropriation.What
night be the consequence? Would not the
hnife have contravened the eonftitution by
t;king from the President, the power which
br it is placed in him ? It Gertainly would.
So that this supposition of the abuse of pow
e', would go to the definition of all au
tiority. The legislature was bound to ap
propriate for the salary of the chief justice
o the Unnited States, and though the Pre
sent might appoint a chimney fwcepCK to
tie office, they would flill be bound. The
cmflitution had traded the President, as
w.ll as it had trusted that house. Indeed,
iticas noteonceitable that the house could a£l
.pn the fubjeft of foreign ministers. Our
VjtiWefts with foreign countries came wholly
uder the jurisdiction of the Executive.— :
Te^<Hrties of that house related to the in
tenal affairs of the country; but what re
laed to foreign countries, andforeign agent*
Mts veiled in the Executive Department.
' "Jie President was responsible for the man
nr in which thi» business was conduced.—
Ie was bound to communicate from time
t> time, our situation with foreign powers,
ad if plans were carried on abroad for di
idingor subjugating us, if he were not to
: uake due communication of the design, he
would be anfwerablc for the negle£l.
f But, without determining the point how
(far it was conflitutional for the house to in
terfere in the present business, it certainly
would not be prudent to do so at present.
AmbafTadors had been called honorablefpict,
to watch the operations of foreign govern
ments, in order to inform their own gov
ernment of every proceeding likely to affcdl
it ; and surely, if ever there were an occa
sion which called for such fpics, it was the
present, when we saw every principle of an
tient order overthrown, and principles of
disorder and villainy introduced which
were never known in ancient establishments.
Was it not seen that those countries which
were most powerful were dismembering and
dividing those which were weak, and in or
der to fettle terms of peace, no scruple was
to cede an independent government
and country, as a balance in the treaty.
Nay, he did not know, but at this moment,
foreign powers might be negotiating for a divi-
Jion of these veryJlates ! as a male-weight in
some adjuflment of belligerent differences.
He trusted, therefore, our ministers would
not be at present recalled ; for tho' they
might not ba able to dive into the secrets of
foreign cabinets, they would doubtless
communicate such information as would be
ufeful, and there was no probability of their
doing any harm.
But gentlemen wished, inflead of multi
plying our foreign connexions, that we
should recall every foreign agent at present
employed ; if even this were the wish of
this country, did it follow that it would be
the interefl of the powers of Europe to
follow the example ? If we refufed to fend
them ministers, thty would fend theirs so
this country, and the danger in this busi
ness did not arise from our ministers going
abroad, but from foreign ministers coming
here. And if foreign agents were sent here,
it was certainly policy, for the fake of in
formation and for the cultivation of har
mony and friendfhip, that we should return
the compliment.
But gentlemen said, these appointments ought
not to be made, because they increased execu
tive patronage. In addition to what had been
said on this fi.bjefl, he would remark, that so
far from these appointments multiplying the
friends of the president, he believed they in
creased hie enemies ; for by serving one person
in aB appointment, he alienated the affections of
twentr others by disappointment. Grnt'eineu
hid talked much about checks. He brlieved
they were sincere when they wilhed the execu
t"f to be checked. He believed they v ould
check and counter-check him, until they /topped
tie wheels of government ; and when hs was
manacled andiaid at the mercy of the house,
! they woul ( d be fati»s.d. For his part, he th-i't
! the executive the moil weak and in-irm branch
; o! the governnent, and that if any thing were
!to be feared, it was from its weakness. It was
not a constitutional i<lsa that this house should
' check the executive, but, that the president
should have the power to check the legislature.
For what reifon ! b;caufe *Ke executive power
i was defined ; its prerogative! are all Ipecififd ;
it could not a& improperly without the aiS be
( inj palpable to all the world ; but the limits of
the house of representatives wire undefined. —
j The eonftitution checked the president, but it
was neceflary for the p r «fident to check that
houfe—for gentlemen could not suppose that a
pppular bods like that house should be immac
ulate, and that »o esprit du carps would ever
lead it to do business which did not properly be
long to it. It was the nature of fneh a body la
be more ambitious than an executive, defined
as ours was. The people v f the United States,
therefore, had more to fear from that house,
than from the president of the United States. —
The president had it not in his to do
much mifchief, but it was in the power of that
house to dejiroy the coujlitution.
Gentlemen had compared the patronage »f
the exrcutu e with the patronage of the execu
tive of the F.nglifh government ; as well might
they compare Calvin Philips to the Irijh Giant.
In this country, what was the power of this
patronage ? An army of 3 or 4,000 men, a na
vy of three fiigates, a number of cslleflors and
fnpervifors, whose fa'aries were only fufficient to
furnifh their daily bread. What was the cafe in
England ? An array almost without number.-a
navy incalculable, a church patronage unlimit
ed, an o.'der of nobiiity without number, fonrces
which furmfhed objefts of temptation t» almost
every individual, besides the civil lift of a million
a year ! Eut what had the prelident of the U
i nitt-d States ? About as ninth at would furnifh
hisJire->woedand table ! Yet rhefe two lituations
ha l beea compared with each other. But not
withstanding the imroenfe patronage of the En
glilh government, if the principle of equal re
presentation were introduced into their house
ofcommons, he believed, not wit hfia ruling all
the power of the executive, they would lop off
prerogative after prerogative, till though there
might remain the features, the fubfunce of mo
narchy would be gone.
Gentlamen who advocated this amendment,
seemed to do it, hecaufe men of a certain opin
ion were appointed! to office ; as if thsy were to
fay, we know eur principles are such that we
have no chance of being appointed, therafore we
will not fuffer the president to appoint any body
else. The gentleman from Gtergia had ex
pressed great surprise on hearing this principle
avowed. But he afktd whether this was not a
principle of the firft authority in this country —
it was the principle upon which the sovereign
people themfclves adled. Did they ever chufe
representatives of a different opinion from them
felvesj He believed no one would fay they did.
If he, or the gentleman who differed from him,
held different opinions from those they held,
they should not appear in their present fituatiens.
The president was therefore juftified in aiftingin
the fame way ; and if he had ever deviated from
it, the deviation had convinced him of hi 6 er
ror ; aad profit ting by this experience, he trust
ed a similar conduct would b« avoided in fu
ture.
Something had been said about the constitu
tionality of the appointment of our present min
ister at Portugal. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania had supposed, that whan the gentle
man who was appointed, advocated the appro
priation. that h« was to be-employ
wl. iHe believed it had been incontrovertibly
shewn that this was not the cafe ; but the gen
tleman had since said, that he did uot mean to
cast blame upon him, but upon the president.
Mr. B. denied that the president had adled un
constitutionally, as had been insinuated ; and he
thought when it was known with what delica
cy the president had a&ed in refuting to aocept
of the house whith had been built for him by
the state of Pennsylvania, a charge of this kind
ought not to have been brought, without better
ground for it. The office which the gentleman
from S. Carolina had accepted, was not created
by the appropriation ; It existed Jong before,
nor was it created by any law, but by the presi
dent ; nor was the salary increased, ac the falarv
of a miniftT plenipotentiary wa« long ago fet
tled. But though it wai not within the letter
of the eonftitution, the gentleman said it was
within its spirit ; tmt he did not know how that
gentleman's fagaeity found a spirit not ex pre (P
ed in the eonftitution.
( Debate to be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY «
Mr. Morris presented the petition of John
Blaney, an invalid, praying for an addition to his
penfioa ; and
Mr. R. Williams one from John Jcrvis, pray
ing for compensation for certain loftes sustained
during the war ; both of which were referred to
the committee of claims.
Mr. Benton prefenred a petition from the in
habitants of Williamfburgcounty, South Carolina,
praying for an extension of the pod road, which
was referred to the committee on that fubjeA.
Mr Broqkcs presented the pe ition of Samuel
Macdonald, and others, m?fTeng *rs and door-keep
ers of the fccretary of state, the fecretavy of the
treafjry, and the secretary of war, for aninereafe
of compcnfaticns, which was referred to the com
mittee of ways and means.
Mr D. Foster, from the committe of claims,
made a unfavorable report on the petition of Jo
hannes E. Lot, andotheis, for compenf ition for
supplies furnished during the war. Referred to
the committee to whom was referred the fubje<ft
of confrdering the propriety of excepting certain
claims from the operation of the limitation a&s.
The amendment of the Senate to the bill for
amending the several a<£l« laying a duty upon spi
rits and flills, was taken up anddifagrced to. Be
fore the house rose, the bill was rsjDurned from the
senate, with their resolution to adhere to their a
mendment. This amendment was to strike out
the provision which v allowed licences to be taken
week.
A mefiage was received from the President of
the United States, informing the houfr that he had
approved and signed the a& prescribing the mode
of taking evidence in cases o£ contested elections,
and the ail providing for the payment of inter
est upon a certificate due to General Kofciuiko.
Mt.Clopton, from the committee cf etrolment,
reported the bill for suspending the a& iclative to
foreign coin, as duly enrolled.
The fcoul'e again refolvcd itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the bill providing the means of
Foreign Interconrit' ; Mr. Nicholas's amendment
being under configuration,
Mr. Craik spoke against it, and Mr. Clai
borne, of TmneJfee, in its favor. The commit
rose without taking a question, and had leave to
a^<u> Adjourned
Bread will be di/iributed to the Poor
Who may apply for the fame from the Friends
meating hi use, corner of Second .nd Market
Itreet, on Tucf ay the 3»th January infi. at 10
o'clock ii the mtrtSkg; by the of the
poor, e to the wills of John Petty, ar.d
V\ ill-am Cartrr,
PETER MIHRCKEN, President |
the Bimrd of Guardians. }
Philad. ]/r.
<!sa3Ct"te*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY iy
APPOINTMENT—Br Avriwuirr.
WilLiam Miller, Jun. Commissioner
of the Revenue. TckchCoxe.
A gentleman who left Norfolk on the
18th inft. and arrived in town yesterday,
fays, that a vessel arrived there, in 45 days
from Bburdeaitx, the news by which was to
have been pubiilfied on the mottling of his
departure; bat that he waited.at.'the prin
ting-office for one of the.paperrfl without
obtaining one, until he was obliged to go
on board the packet. He was informed
that f.\e Commiffienersjiad been refufed,
and that affairs with this country appeared
so alarming, that the American vessels were
hurrying away, and tb%t many failed in
company with this vessel. There was also
an arrival from Havre with similar intelli
gence.
By the fierce assault of a Democratic
print upon, the Penufylvania Hofp.'tal, it
would feema*if the Editorhadalready become
a fit fubjed of that valuable inflitution. Jt
is not to be doubted from prefenX appearanc
es, that a Jacobin fa&ion will in a few years
exist, only in our mad-houses and prisons.
If.that Editor ftiil cherishes the profpeA of
evading that doom by the overthrow of the
constitution and the plunder of the country,
his brain is cracked, and hen's either a mad
man or a fool. No; the age of chicanery
is over, and Jacobinism fafl retires, as the
public mind fbakes off the fhafklessf preju
dice, and becomes enlightened beyond the
reacli of the preverting principles of French
Liberty, Equality, Reason and Fraternity.
That fadion is dead, in a political £r»fe—
their cause is past praying for j and 'jpeor
Surgo, by the zeal he displays, in attempt
ing to deftr«y one of their most probable a
sylums feenu already to have refolvcd to
hang himfelf.
Ml. FfiNKO,
AS Brnjamln Franklin Bache, is now printing,
if not -writing, to blast the reputation of the Penn
sylvania Hospital, I will recommend to him, if he
ever reads prayers, to read one, whiah his grand
father made for that inftitßtion ; it is inferibed on
the foundation {lone of that building, and it as fol
lows •
In the year of CHRIST
MDCCIV—
GEORGE the 6e»i«J happily reigoing
he fought the happineis of his People)
PHILADELPHIA flourifliing,
(for its Inhabitants were public spirited)
THIS BUILDING,
By the BOUNTY of the GOVERNMENT,
And of many private persons,
Was piously founded,
For the Relief of the sick and miserable;
May the SOD «f Merciee,
Bless the Undertaking.
UK. FENNO.
Please to publish the following reply to
the article in the Aurora of yesterday, r«£-
pedting Yankee checks and balances.
It appears to be in the contemplation of
certain anti-federalifU to introduces new
system—not of checks and balances—but
of absolute preponderancy. This prepon
derancy, is designed to operate in favor of
the house of representatives, so as tc kick
the beam in favor of the house, and ren
der the powers veiled in the executive a
mere nullity. This may propefly be called
Virginia preponderancy, as it has taken its
rife from ftate. By means of this o
ver-balance, the house of representatives is
to draw all power into that branch, and
become the government—executive—lcgif
lative and judicial—a-la-mode de Paris.
Whether this system of preponderancy o
riginated with the mover of it, or fton the
correspondent of Mazzci, is not said: but
let it have sprung from what source it may,
the objeft is plain—and goes to destroy the
power constitutionally vetted in the execu
tive branches, and disorganize the govern
ment by destroying its checks and balances.
Philad. 25th Jan. 1798.
LEGISLATURE of MASSACHUSETTS
January 16
Anf-wer of the House of Representatives to the
Governor's Speech.
May it p'eafe your Excellency,
The House ®f Representatives have re
ceived your Excellency with great pleasure
in the new and elegant building erefted for
the better accommodation of the several
branches of government.
In this splendid specimen of the taste and
judgment of the agents who planned and fi>-
ptrintended, and in the ability of the arti
ficers who completed its ftrudture, we are
happy to find thepublicconfidencecomplete
ly juftified. Long may it continue an or
nament to the Capital, whose inhabitants
generously gave the situation on which it
is erefted, and a monument of the public
spirit of the people of Massachusetts, sacred
to the purposes to which it has been de
voted.
In the business of legiflatjon we shall care
fully endeavor to do every thing ih our pow
er, that may tend to afford to our constitu
ents security for every right, aid redress
for every wrong, in the most easy and ex
peditious manner, conformable to the laws.
We received with high £rtMa&ion and
congratulate your Excellency and our fel
low-citizens thereon, the pleasing informa
tion which you have given us of the state of
the public Treasury.
We shall duly attend to the other im
portant iubjedts mentioned by your Excel
lency.
.All parts of this Commonwealth afford
strong evidence of the general prosperity and
happirefs of o»r ftllow-citizens, and were
it not for the evils to which our commerce
lias been fubje&ed in consequence of the
war in E'jrcpe, we might justly consider
jjurfelve* as a people in circumstances a;
. truly eligible, as ever, by the bounty of
Heaven, hare been allotted to any nation
on the Globe.
With fondntf* we indulge thehope that
the CommiflioDejs of the United States now
at Pans, for the purpose cf adjuring, by
amicable negotiation, all causes of difference
with the French Republic, will be fuccefs
ful, and hnppilv restore that harmony so
much to be desired.
We are deeply inpreffed with the impor
tance cf the'fubje&, and are fenfiblc it be
longs to ihe government of theUpited States
and while wt refleft, that since the adoption
of that government, there
of has the refpett, and commanded
the confideace of the people oFthe Union ;
v.'e anticipate with pleasing confidence the
adoption of such measures by that govern
ment, as shall be best calculated to secure
the rights and property, as vvell as the free
dom of the People of the
United States ; and feel the fulled convidt
ion of the concurrent support of our fellow
citizens of this Commonwealth in aid of all
such measures:—Nor are we less allured
every attempt to diminish the confidence of
the people of the Commonwealth in rhe free
ly elefted members of the government of the
United States will njeet their just disappro
bation.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, 'January 24, 1797.
Kijt per Cent. 16fj
Three per C»rt. 10/1
Deferred 6 per Cent. ' 13/9
BANK United States, 20 to 21 per tent.
Nci til America, 50 per cent.
lafuranccCo. Penufylvania, 10h u per cent,
N. A. {hares 40 per ccat.
Arrrived «t Baltimore-
Ship Louis, Deale, Bremen
Jupiter, Steiumerz, Hamburg
Aurora, Brantz, l'amigate
Pifpatch, Benner9 Amflerdatn
Snow Hannah, Thompson, Weft-Indies
Schooner Experiment, Knapp, do.
Industry, Wefcot«, do.
Peggy, Edwards, do.
Farmer, Thompson, do.
HARTFORD, January 18.
Capt . Horace Church of this place, ii the brie
Hope, arrived at Newport, on Saturday last, in 28
4ays passage from Port Liberty, formerly called
Point Petre, in Guadaloupe, havicg been taken
on his outward bound passage and carried into
th.it place, where he was condemned withoat hav
ing a k-arieg, being himfelf confined on board a
prison {hip at the time of his trial.
Capt. Church had every necclTary paper, Roll
equipage, &c.—No paper avails any thing with
lawless baijiJiffi fluadaloupe
Twelve American velTelt were condemned on
the day that capt. Church's vessel was—five of die
number belonged to this Hate.
Capt. Church fays, that there is in Guadaloupe,
a number of Americans, owners of privateers and
partakers of plunder, wrefled from their country- ;
men*—He also informs, that two days previous to
his failing, Dr Redfield, late of Middletpwn, di
ed at that place.
ALEXANDRIA, January 20.
Yesterday afternoon arrived in town, capt.
Brookes of the {hip Felicity, who left Nor
folk on Sunday morning ; he informs that :
on Saturday evening last, a vessel belonging i
to Newbury.port, arrived at Norfolk from !
Nantz, which had been capturedbya French !
privateer, sent in and condemned. In this
vessel came seven mailers of vessels who had
been captured and condemned at Nantz,:
and report that 17 Ameriern vessels were in
the fame situation at that port.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 4.
A letter dated Cape Nichola Mole, De
cember Bth, from Capt. Hunter, of the
{hip Pallas, which was captured off our bat
on the 18th or O&ober last, by a French j
privateer, informs his owners in this city, '
that after the capture, the Frenclt Srrew j
which was put on board of hi 3 {hip carried j
her into Porta Plata, in St. Domingo; on
her arrival there, the Spanilh government
refufed to condemn her ; they then got her
under weigh and left the port; on the 22d
of November, {he was chafed into Monti-
Chrifto, by the Thames frigate, which on
the evening of that day sent her boats and
cut her out; file was then carried into the
Mole. A fort and three privateers fired on
the ship while they were cutting her ou: ;
a 24 pound {hot went into her hull. The
trial of the {hip was to come on at the Mole
on the 9th, when it was supposed (he and
her cargo would be wholly condemned, as
the cutting her out of the enemy's port pre
cluded all claims from the owners. All the
letters and papers capt. Hunter had on
board were taken by the prize master and
his crew, whrch left the {hip in a boat, be
fore the frigate's boats got possession of her.
Boston Glass Manufadtory.
citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glaf» is now at the Giafs House.in iioi
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston G!af», as it is io well known
thr«u(»hout the United States to fce in every relpeci
greatly fuperiei to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conlVantly had by applying to Chaklis F
Kuppe.r, at the Ghf House.
Orders from the distant .Mates to be addrefTeJ to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Churt-fcreet, Boston.
fjj" Two or three good Gtafs makers are want
ed at [he above work*; fnch as can produce re
commendations for good bthav oi , may be sure of
employ, by application :o Mr. Geoug* L. I.indt,
at the works. Men withnKt families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainred with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with 'he fame encouragement.
Boston, Jan. 16 25 —2aw6w
OVAL bottles:
Quart and half gal on in erates —and a quanti
ty ot Claret bottles of a f:ze —i
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DOR'EY.
Jttuurv 1? naw6w.
I'er Sale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years cld~ has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking; tyre of a child
arid unJcrftands honfe work. Enquire at No
97, North sth Hreet
Jan. 22. *eodaw
' ' v*<v - ; •
■ m :u r try
N li VV-TH F. ATR F.
t '
» .
; ] I*o-Morrow evening;
I JANUARY 26,
Wid he preftntrd (for the fe'-'Oi-.dtime ia 1. i.ieri
cs,) a
1 he Will ;
OR,.* SCHOOL rou D.vuoHTrßs.
£ Written hv the author of the lvage, Drama;
How t;> gr.iw K.. h, S.c <Scc. and performed
tocrouded honlrj i I the !all season at L>rwy
Lane Thtctre.J
fsr Solomon C\ nic Mr. Bermrd
Mandcville, Warrni
Howard, Moreton
Veiitas, Wiguell
Kcalize, Mar wood
Kobeit, 1 nx
CldCopfley, t Warrcll
Servants, VfefTrs. Hunter, Lifiertv, &e.
A'.bina Mandeville, (with the Epilogue)
Mrs. Mirfhill
Mrs ijid, I-'KJtrjnge
Cieely Copfliy, Bernard
Deborah, lJoilpr.
To which wilt he added, a Vlufical Farce, called
I'he Lock and Key.
On Sti'urd )•, the Comic Opera of Abroad
and ir fta« ; or a Tnur in the Kind's Hench
—after which it wi!) be Uid alide, onsgccount
of new in pXparation.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery half a Dollar.
0" The doors of the 'I hsatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife irecfely at fix o'clock.
Places tor the Base' to te tatea at the Office in
the front ot the Theatre, lrsta 10 till 3 o'clock,
and from It till 4on the days of performance.
Tickets tn be lud at H. ?nd P. Rice's bock-Sore,
No. 5° Market-ftrcet. ant! at the Office adjoining
the Theare. Fly AT RJ-.S PUBLIC A I
•$5" Mm O'rjtti . rtfpedtfully i ; farms
dies 2nd geirtlerneii of the city, that agreeable
to the wilh of Vrs. Oia:taii'« f'jbf< ribera, on
Tiiefjay next the gives a Ball, with refieihmcnta
iaftead of a concert, at Mr. Richardtts. Tick
ets of admittance to non-i'uhferibers two dollar#.
Jan, 25. dtt'
. FOR THE CURE OF
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders of the Breajl and Lung:,
Church's Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CERTIFICATE.
" I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
moll levere Cough, Cold, and violent pain in my
brealt, by taking only a few doses of Dr. Church's
Cough Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia. .
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
Having been recently restored From the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it
ray duty to make this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others affliiSted with a
| liniilar complaint. I had been aiflicled with a most
, dreadful aflhma for about twenty-three years. I
| never for years got any reft, my cough was so
troublesome in the night; and used to discharge an
almsft incredible quantity of glutinous matter
from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
Ihort that I could not walk across my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I too,
them ; and, through taking them alone, I am now
blessed be God ! restored to perfeft health. My
cafe is wall known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Field, of which I am
also a member ; a»dany of them will gladly fa
tiasyany concerning the truth of l
Tay. I arh, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANG WORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great .Windmill ft roc t,
Hay-market.
Witnefr,
N. Lancworthv, jun.No. 40,
Pulttiey-ftreet, Golden-lquar*.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and iold (only) by the inventor and
sole ■ ropiietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South *1 hird-ffreet, next the Mar*
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
York, by Mc.Trs .Maples and Co. 169 Pcarl-ftreet
and Miss Wcdman, 111 Wiljiem-ftreet.
Dr. Church may be confultcd every day, at hii
office, 15 S South Front-street, PhilaJalphia.
January 9. 3aw.iw
Houfc and Lots, in Dordenteivn.
BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
witji the Lot on which it is eretSed, situated
aboi,- the mi,ldle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The h»ufe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order The lot contains
one acre, and,is one hundred feet 011 the main
'kreet, and extends with the fame breadth tuba6k
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fcparatud Irom the former hy back ilreet.
One'third only of tV- purchaft will be re
quired upon executing i deed, and for the re
mainder, fucli credit w,II he givan as the purchase
er may chufe. This propertr will be fold free a
all incumbrances, and an iudifputable title givenf
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burr.es, residing in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame or r,f
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Mark-t-ftreet.
nece:r '' er Jawtf
Kan away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797, a Negro Man. about 5 feet ? or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion; when fpohe to
and called by his name he fas a quick sharp look
out of his eyes and shews the white of them verv
much ; has taken all his eloathes with him, which
ate, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a ftiiped v.ft, nankeen
breeches, silk stockings and ruffled Ihirts, and a
number of other eloaths. Th« said Negro under
ftaads farming, afid is a pood Ihoemak'-r and car
penter ; he can read ants Write tolerably well—lt
is iikely he may forge a pass Whoever takes up
laid neoro and secures him, so that I get him, foalf
have l'hirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
Susasnah Medfoko, livitig in Stilt Pond, Mary!
land, Kcut coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
_fanuary 2
FOR SALE; "
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. JJ,-the corn-r of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a genera! aiTortmcnt of Tools,
tides and MkteroU, of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour br«fs pinion»
and firrge work ; Bc'.ls, clock and watch Dials
Spripgs, Hands, GlalTes Punice Stone, Emery,"
i ! .otten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, K.eys, &c. &c,
* % * Apprentices Wanted.
novemher ,t- f&tutf
A Gardener wanted.
A person weil acquainted with gardening, and
vho would occafiora'ly attend nurket, may
hear or a place by applying at the n mile
in the B-iftol road, or No. IC9, Arch-street,
Philadelphia, A single man would be prefered,
Jan. ae. amfPROPOSALS
FOR
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS i
oa the following Port Roads will be re- (
ceivetl at the General Post Otnce jintil
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PENNSYLVANIA,tfc. i
1. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf- a
tie, Cantwell's bridge, Dack creek, Dover, Fred
eric, Milford, Cioughv Dagfborcugh, Trap,
Siowhill, Hnrntown and Accomsc.court house to |-
Nnrrh-'npton court house three times a week. t
April «to November 15. Leave Philadelphia ev-
Tuefday, Thutfday and Saturday at » a m, and r
arrrive at Northampton court house on Thi.faay, t
Sai.tr lay a»d Monday at 7j («. Retmrmug- Leave s
Northampton court hi'ufe every Frilay, a
and WeaHcfdav at aa m, and arrive at Pht.adcl- d
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 '» )
r 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev- ; J
ery Au'fl y. Thursday and Saturday at 6 am, 3
and irrivc at Northampton court houle 011 Ffid.y,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 ' *• a
Leave Northampton court hoafe every Saturday, A
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a >l, and arrive at L
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday a;
by 7 r m. r
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Nortolt
tbr.e tunes* week. * , G
April 1 t. November 15. Leave Northampton t{
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 34 hoars. r j
Retutn!*l:—Leave Norfolk every Wed.icfdijr, Fri- j,
day and Monday a4a M, and arrive at Northamp- J
tfr-. cuqrt house in twenty four hour* r]
A T ouemiert< to April I. Leave Northampton b;
court house every Tuesday. Thursday and Saturday a
at ;A m, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 hour*. Re
,ur,i .—Leave Norfolk every Monday, W ednel- |
day and Friday by 4a m, and arrive at Northamp- 0I
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA iff MARYLAND- ai
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N-w- , r
port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- j a ,
town croft roads to Choflerftown thtee timesa week.
May Ito Novtmier 1. Leave Philadelphia iwcry it
Sunday,TuefcUy and Thursday by 9 p m, apdar
r.v« at Chellertown the nezt days by 8p m . Re- ar
tuning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- R
nefday and Friday byjm, and arrive at Phila- n(
delphia the next days by 8 r u.
Nmmier rto May t. Leave Philadelphia eve- t8
pyMoffday and Friday by 9 am, and arrive at
Cheftertown on Tu-.fJay aud Saturday by 4 ' m.,
Kc:ur*ing—Lejfve Cheftertown every Monday and u
Friday by 8 am, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m . Y
MARYLAND. L
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, 3t
Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill andPrin- , lt
cess Ann to Salilbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- . hi
day at 7 am. arrive at Eafton by 4 p m. Leave 1 h;
Ealloc on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill l
cn Friday by I f. M, and at Princels Ann by 6 r. 1
M. Returning—LeavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by : a i
1.0 am , arrive at Eafton the ne* day or Monday 4
by 6pm Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8 a M,and , e
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m. In
5. From Harford by B?l-Air tp the Black horse (
onc« a week. i h
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A m, and ,
arrive at Black horse by 6P m. Returning—Lejve 1
Brack horse on Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at u
Harford the next Tuesday Wy 9 a m. a
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- d
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown 1
Pa. once a week. . c
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 ' m, arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r
at Yorktown by 8 pm. Returning—Laavc York- ]
—town rvrry Ttrurfd*y 7 am, andarrive at flal« <
tlmore on Friday noon. ]
;. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg, (
Tancyton and Fredericktown to Leefbusg once a ]
week.
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 a 11, arrive ,
at Fredericktown on Tuesday by 5p m, andarrive (
atLeefburgoo Wednesday by im. Returning— ,
Leave Leefcurg every Friday at noon, ana arrive
at Yorktown by 6 r m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotrtown,Gettifburg, '
Fairfield, Williai-fport, Martinf
burg, Winchester, SUvenfburg and Stralburg to
Woodftockortce a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg ®n Tuesday by II am. Leave
Martiniburg on Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6 p x m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg 011 Friday by II a u, andarrive at York
town on Sunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Wafhmg
ton, Wist Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Fifhicg creek once a week (contraS for one year
only.) .
Leave Fittlburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fiihmg creek on Sunday at 9 A m. Return
ing—Leavejt ifliir.g creek on Wed»elday at 8 a m,
and arrive "at Putfburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Wamirgton by Brownsville andUrJon
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 a », and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave W*{hington on
Saturday at 6 a m , arrive at Mcrgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p u.
It. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, ElUa
bethtown, GreencalUe and ChamberfburgtoShip
penfboig once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by it A m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, a! Eli
xabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
ou Monday by 7r M. Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at o a m, arrive at Elizabeth
Town tt 8 P m , at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 pm.
MARYLAND.
Ij. From Elixabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
LcavtCumbeiland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at EfixaVethtown on Mindly by 8 a m.
KtlMrniMg—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberlaed on Tuesday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5p m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Ann«,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P»rttobaceo, <l
- Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at to a m, arrive
at. Annapolis at Jin. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcatawsy by 6 p m. & arrive at
every Monday forenoon by 90'cloek.
Returning—Leavel.eonardtown every Monday at 3
r arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p u
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday bj
11 am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Lave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a si, and arrive at
1 . Baltimore by3p m. £
15 From Annapolis by Lowjl Marlborough,
Hu i'.iiigton asd Calvert couthcufe to St. Lean
ards orce a week-
Leave Anr.apoli l every Saturday at 9a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards m Monday by 3 p si.
Leave St. Leonards every Uo.iiay at 4
r st, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 a m. '
16. From Bladenflsurg bj Upper Mariboronjk,
■ Nat in.'V.m, Lower Acq-.-fco.Bea
" , and jaiiriwxebsll to Oirplico oOceawee*- *
i Leave Bladenfourg every Saturday at 9
rive at Upper MarlWough by noon and it 3
Marlbor oijhou Rtoihlayby JT
> V. 6 r sr. Returning —L^avcChapti^'"'V < -'ry " j
day at 6 a M, and arrive at -
day at 6 a M.
I 17 From Georgetown ly Montgo:r.;ry cour r
house to Fr.-dericktown once a week. I
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6am, an f
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pm. Returning
Leave Fsedericktown every Thuifday S""< p
" and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m. e
VIRGINIA. . d
18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking- ,
' ham court house, Staunton. Lexirgton and Fincal- i
tk-to Big Lick oace a wtck. ■ c
I.eave Woodftofk evtry Thursday aa M, ar- 5
' rive at Staunton on Fri'day at Ie M. L?IVe Starni- E
- ton every Friday at 1 r«, arrive at Big L.ck on. f.
Sunday hy 11 a m. Returning—Leave Big Licit
on Sunday by I p m, arrive at Staunton every _ rue £
day by it a". Leave St auntom b y' l ,° I clo { A b
)noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wedncfi-ay by v
j J 'i". Froai Big Lick by Montgomery courthouse »
and Wythe court house to Abingdon ouce a week.
Leave Lick every Sunday at I e si, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 2p u, and at p
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 1 pu, and ar- a|
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by n a h. 1 tt
TENNESSEE. O
»o. From Abingdon, Vir. by Joncfborough
Greenville, Moffat's Itore and Jeffcrfon court houle t,
to Knoxvilie once a week. H
Leave Abingdon everf Thursday by 6a m, ar- ir
rive at Moffats store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave L
Moffatsby 9a m, and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun- n
day by to a m. Returning— Leave Knoxvilie eve
ry Sunday by 1 p m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3p m. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 p M * ''
VIRGINIA. "
| 11. From Winchester by Romney to Moorfields
once a week. q
Leave Wincfceftecevery Thursday at 6 a M,and. t
arrive at Moorfield 011 eriday by 6 PM. Return- £
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,anJ f,
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M. v
i%. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martiniburg once a week. \
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, \
and arrive at Martiniburg on Friday by iQ am« 1
Returning—l eave Martinfburg every Friday by (
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a si.
33. From Fredenckfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- 0
tons, Tappahannock, yrbanna and Glouccfter court r
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave every Wednesday at 6 a
h , arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by iiam. Returning— v
Leave Yorktown. every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive a
: at Fredericklkurg on Tuesday by 5 PM. ]
14. From Tappahannock by Richmond a
I house, Weftmorcland court house, Kinfale, Farn
! ham church and Northumberland court house to f
: Lancafler court house once a week- t
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
, arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11 1
am. Returning—Laave Lancaster court houle av- :
'i ery Saturday by 1 P iniarriiit 1
I noak on Monday by 11 a m.
xj. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house icOrangec. h. to Charlottelviileonce a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuofday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leavt Charlottefville o» Saturday
at 8 PM, an"d arrive at Frederickfburg on T«ef» ,
day by 6 a m.
i 6. From Richmond by Gooehland couyt
houfe Columbia and CKitlottefville te Staunton
onee a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at I P m , ar
rive at Charlottefville oh Thursday by iiam,
Leave Charlottefville by. noon and arrive at
Staunton on Friday by 11 AM. Returning —
Leave Staunton 0* Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
• Charlottefville by 7 p m, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 a m.
27. From Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house ouce a
. week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a M,aud
; arrive at Greenbrier court-houf*on Tuesday by
1 6p M. Returning—Leave Greenbrier «ourt
. house every Monday by. 9. a m, and arrive at
3 Staunton on Thursday by 8 pm.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
- minfler, New-Market, Amherft court house,
e Cabelllburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg ouce
- a week.
e Leave Charlottefvill* every Thursday at 1 p
- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
- p M. s Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 a m.
lf 29. From Richmond by Hanovertown,.Ay-
T letts and Tsdds to Tappahannock once a week
•r if carried in ftaget as often as they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
'* arrive at Todds at 3P M, and at Tappahannock
'■ on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, aud ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 p m.
, 5 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
* tan coort houle, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edwardiourt house and Lynchburg to New
lt London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
i- arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 p
>_ m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A m,
aid at New-London by is AM. Returning—
re Leave New-London every Friday at a P M, ai
li- rive at Lynchburg by j P M, arrive at Prince
g Edward on Saturday by 7 pM, and arrive at
f- Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
h 31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
»y tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at I P M,
and arrive at Fincaftle cn Saturday by 6 P M.
- 1 " Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tutfday noon.
3»- From Liberty by Kocky Mount to Mar
"■ tinvilie once in wo weeks.
. T L#ave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
■ 1 M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by . 6 P
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
n j and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
lVe 33- From Priuc* Edward court houle by
at Charlotte court house to Halifax court houle
occe a week.
Laave Prmce Edwar-' co«rt houfeev*rvThurf
>l. day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
ire on Friday at 10 AM. Returaing—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by a P M, and ar
ive tive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
ia- by 6P M.
gh VIRGINIA umJSQRTH.CAROLINA.
-at 84- From HaliUx court-houle b> Halitu old town,
tk. Cartf.e, Patrick coun-houfe. UpperS»u
- 13 n > Gerrruiunwa and Bcthaoia 10Salem ouce to (wo
~, weeks.
Leave Ua'.iiax court-house every other Friday at
lTt », PM, sod arrive at Salem the next MJudav b-. 6,
a . PM. Kciurc.ng—LeaseSjleci esery other Tuefdiy
it 6, A M, and aarivc at Halifaxcouit-tuofe on Fri
,}, day by lO.AIL
' ' 35. Fiom Harris's by Hickes'sfotd to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wedoefdty and Saturday by
P St AM. and arrive at Halifax by 6, PM. Ret urn
'»£ —eave Halitax every Thursday ind Sunday by 6,
4 A M, aud arnve at Hirrit't by ■>, P. M.
°J VIRGINIA.
36. From Sr-.ithfieid by Somhainptoo ccort-fcoufe
to Hickei's ford pnee a week.
Le.veHi-k,-.r>r3 '""f",
«d arrive X Smi<hfieM on S-turdav by 5. P' M - c
Retor™« s _l«vcS.u:thfie:d eve.-y otoer b..nday by t
c, A M?»od arrival lord o, Moniay b> U
•• P y I
St. Tamß-v'., a
ani Luicnburg court-huufes and td- 11
mund» (lore to Galdte's mcia week.
Leave Goldfon's every Wednefduv at 10, AM. and „
return <K e „„t Saturday by «, 1' M, waiting at each ta
Poll-Office » hours after delivery o. the uwi .
FIRGIStA & NOiLTH-CAROLWA.
q3. From S-ifl'jlfcby Edenton, Plymouth and Wa- T
(h.-igtou to Ncwbern, om»a week Le»e Suffolk
every Monday a: noon, arrive at Edenton on r u es- a
day at 1, P M, ai P.ymoutb, on Widncldiy i»y o. a
K M at Walhirwton by 6, P M, and at N'ewbernon a
Thurfdavby J, P M- Re-urnin,— Leave N'cwbe.n -
every Friday by 6. A M, arrive at Waihing'on by
PM. Arrive at Plymouth pn Saturday by 4 f .
PM, atEdcr.i'won Sundaybyg, AU, ai.d aiSuf- .
folk on Monday by g. A M.
XQRTH-C.IRGLIXJ. '
10 Frs<p tdemonby Heuford, Nixontou, Eliza
beta chy, and Joneiburg to Indian-towo, once *
" Leave Edeoton every Wednesday by 1. PM, and >'
arrive at Indian-town on Thu>fd»v by 6, P .'•» Ke
tutning—Leave Indianlown evervTueiday by 5 , A M,
and arrive at Edcuton on Wednesday at it, A M.
40. from Halifax by N'orthair.;>ton ccurt-houre,
Princeton, Murfreelborough, Wint»» and Windsor
to Edenton, once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave K den -
1 tohon Wednesday by 6, PM, and arrive at Halifax
on Saturday by • 1, A M
4!. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, William!- _
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave J
Halifax every Monday at to, A M, and arrive at Ply- j
mouth on Wednesday by to, A M. Returning
Leave.Plymouth 011 Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar- ,
rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
4a. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenvjle to t
Wafhingtonor»ee a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at io, A M, and ar
rive at Wafhiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Wafbington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and artive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warienton, Williamiborough,
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salifb«ry and Siatefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras court-bouse to Sahfbury, and
from ikeoce by ;he fame route to Halifax, once a -
week. j
Leave Halifax every Monday at 91 A M, arrive at
Warreii'.on by -, P M. "rive at HiUfcorough on
Wcdnefdav at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
PM, at Saltlbury on Sa urday at 4, P M, and at 1
ChaalotM on Monday by 6, AM. Retarmng—leave t
Charlotte on NJoadiy ai to, A Mj arrive at Sahibury - c
on Tuesday by xo, A Nl, arrive atSalemion Wed- ]
nefday at 9, AM, at HiUfborough on Friday by 9, \
AM, at NVarrcmonon Saturday at 7, PMi ana at (
Haliftjt ma Monday at 6, AM- .
44. From HUlfborough by Mount T:rzah, Pcrfon
court-house, Lea(burg t Cafwell court-house and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantbwn once in two
weeks.
Leave HHlftjorough every otherThurfday at 6, A
and airive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hilllborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfvflle, Roch
ford,
tanburg io S. C. once in two weeks. I
Leave Salem t ve»y other Saturday am, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on_Weduefd«y at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg Thursday at 7 a m, and ar- |
atsalem the next Monday at£ 9b,
46. From Louiftmrg by Nafo court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Tar borough evei/ Friday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Louifburgby 6 pm. Rct*mi)ig—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a si, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by. 6 * w.
47. From Raleigh by Smithfield, Waynelborotigh,
and Kingston to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every otfeer Tueiday by-8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next: Friday -by 10 a ii<
Returning— Leave Newbetnjevery other Friday by 2
t My and arrive at Raleigh on Monday bv.6 p ¥•
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hiII to Hilllborough,
and t>om HiUfboioogh by Chapel kill aod Chatham
court-bouse to JUieigi, ooce a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham ccfurt-houfe.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hilltborough by 6 ph. Returning—Leave
HilUboroßgb every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrite
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From Fayetieville by Elizabeth town, BeUetort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by 5. Wafhingtoo, Sarefto and Satnpfon court
house to Fayetieville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at &am, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a. m. Re
tvrning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 am,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. Irom Fayetteville by Aifordtoo and Randolph
' court-haofe 10-Salilbuiy, and from Sal ilbury by Mont
-1 g«mery.court-boufe, Anion court-house and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
. arrive it Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
, lifburyevery Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Frilay by 6 r m.
Trom Newberq by Trenton and Richland to
? Wilmiigton once a week.
Leavr Mewbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
" at Wilnington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil-
mingtoi every Tuesday at to am, and arrive at New
bern 01 Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
t sa. From Camden by Lancafer court-house, Char
e lotae and Liacoliiion to Siatefville, once in two
. weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Stalefville on Thursday by 6 p m Leave Statef
ville everv oueaXriday by 2 r m, a»d arrive at Cam
e den ocrMwSav by 6p. m.
* SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborougb, Chester
> court-house, Pwckneyville, Spartanburg and
P Greenville courUioufe to Pickenfville, and
, from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court house to Columbia, ooce a week : waiting
one hour at each pnfU>fike on the route* f
c Leave Columbia e\ery Monday at 9a m, arrive at
Soartanbuig every Wcdnefdav by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on ThurQay at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Fridayat 4 PM, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 pm.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
, once a week*."
1. Leave Columbia every Monday at to a m. a&i ar- *
A rive at Charleston on T.urfday at 10 am. Rg&rniag
u —Leave Charleston every Thursday at »P M, and ar
rive at Colombia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-C'iROLIXA GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville com:-hauie, Pendlcion court-boule, Hac
p tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton aud Peters
borg to W r afbiogton, and from Washington by Pe
teriburg and Cambridge to Edgdieid court-house,
y once a week.
Leave Edgefield coart-houfe every Friday byß ah,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
f_ arrive at Frankim court-bouse by 7pm, at Peterfourg
l e on Toefday by 10 am, aad at Waftungton by 5 p
, m. Leave Wattling*.on evety Wednesday at 6a m,
ai Camb idge on Ttwrfday by >0 a m, and at Edge
r" field ccwrt-houfe by 7 P •
l T 56. From Augusta by Walhington, Greenfburg and
to Geojgetown, ooce a week.
Leave evety Monday it 3 pm, arrive at
n, Washington on by 5 p *, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thurfdav by 7 p m. Retxr-iiig—
ro Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6a m, and arrive
at Augusta by noon on Monday,
at 57. Front Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at a p m, and arrive
■y a; Gajdens Corner bv Bm. Ramming—Leave Gar
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. y.
AU; I. Tbt Ptf: Mmflrr Gtneral nay alter the time*
,y tf GrrrvjlnJ lepartstre sta*y thee during tbe csntidtmajue
a- of the cxftrj&y he prcrmfy jitfmlating :sm
6, fir expenfetLit may b: Ktaftcr.d there
2. Hilf oa bcur Jbali 6e allrzced fcr evening,
ife | the J&ailateU ijjki* Twbcre mpartusUr time
i a
Nae 3. for nay hour's ielaf {um'.oiiab'.t acaacntt '
excepted} in Arriving aj'er the times prefcrihed in any con
tratl, the Contraclor skill JorJeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Afci.,
whereby the Mails defined for such depending Mail, ole
a trib, at additional forfeiture of Jive dolars Jkatl oe
incurred' fl
Note 4 New/papers as ncetl as Letters are to he fart
I in the Mails ; arrd if any ferfon making prxrjtofjh desires
to carry ne-vfpapers other than theft conveyed in the mail, b
for bis «v* em.-hvment, he mufl flute in his prcpfals for
what funs he will carry it with that emdnmr.it and for ,
vjhat sum nvitbeat that en dument. / g
Note S. Si&U *ny perfin making prop.file defrre an
alteration of tic timer of arri-o il and depsrUrre above fpe- ■
cited, be.nut Hate in bis proposals the alterations Mired,
an I the difference they vsiit trait in the terms h,> con.
"tte 6. Persons mating proposals are defred to slate
their prices in gross by tbc year, and not by tie mile. P
■Those who contrail ivill-receive tbeir pay quarterly, in
tie months of January, April, July and October, in
drafts on the pofl offices on the route and in hank r,,tes.
Note 7 The contracts are to be in operation on the M «
dry of April next, and continue for four years, until "
the Jiflday of March inclufrve, in the year 1802. u
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, tl
Poll-Matter General.
General Post Office, 7
Philadelphia, December 18, 17971 i
tutkicsti4thF
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
the estate of Willam Flebwtood, of a
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- si
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts, t<
properly attefled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are defined to r.iake immediate
payment, to a
' CEO.dobson d
No. 25, So. Third-street. ) «
January 4. dtf h
T9 Cabinet Makers, Joiners, life.
Cavanagh & Hearn, i
Pine-street, near the New-Market, f
RETURN thanks to their friends and the a
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to J
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part-
Rerihip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
be«n difTolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn have just received a quantify of St. j
Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they ,
intend to fell on very reaforiable termss for cafli. ; ,
Orders from the country mod punctually txe- (
cuted. Vineersof all kinds cut as nfual. j
Jan. 15. <
Mitfical tnftrument Manufattvry, (
167, Arch-street. ,
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY. i
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his sew invented,
. and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with 1
I Pedals,patent swell, and French harp
i stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conllruflion, the
fnfisriorky of wluchjie flatters himfeif, a Angle tti
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As*th?y
are manufa&ured under his immediate islpeition,
of the vary be-: seasoned materials, he can fell oil
roafonable terms for Cash. Instruments repaired,
tuned, Sc. c.
N. B. Second band Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new. .
navemier I?. liwlmo.
ALL persons indebted to the'eftate of Pettr
Gill, late of the DLftri<ft of South de- :
seafed, are requested to make immediate pay
ment to either of the Subftribers; and thaife
wjio have any demands igatnft laid estate, are
requested to bring in their accounts duly attcft-
JOHN MURPHY, ? Execu -
PETEK SCRAVENDYKE, C txecu
"THOMAS FARRELL, ) ,ols -
Philad. fan. 16. 1798. *aaw4w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Beok Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefcut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the House aT
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
1 against WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
■ demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houf* of Representatives, authorizing the said
' Committee to fit during the reels of Congress, and
inftruiting them " to enquire, and, by all lawfui
: " means, to difc.ver the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof tbe laid William Blount
1 " stands impeachej, and who are the parties and
" affociatestherein."
Printed by order of tbe House of Rtprefentatii.es.
December io. , §
Prison Manufactory.
I FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
' Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to lady
' Flooring Brads, Springs, {addle and card Tarks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sailers Thread
J Alfo—Sawefl Marble, fuiuble for currier's tables,
tomb and head Rones, hearths, chimney pieces,
ilabs, facia, window iieaii, Oils, c .
' All wliich may he had on reasonable terms,
3 Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prifoa at
t a moderate price.
t Orders from a ditlasce, direAed to Daniel Tho
s mi>, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
j December a 6. mth6m
S
DANCING SCHOOL.
——
• j VrriLLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
-I VV nioft compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, ind re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
, bountiful encouragetrwut.ha has expetienced for
- tnefe twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that hi« school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Roomy
1, in South Fourth-Street, between Chefaut and
< Walr.ut-ftreets. T.» begin at to in 'he morning
€ for young ladies, and iin the evening for yO¥Dg
' gentlemen.
Ok. 8. , nwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
" TV/f* 8 - OROOMPRIDGE with much pleas-
II iVJ. ureand refyeft, returns, her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
c £he has received during four years refidenee is
Phiirdeiphia; and aflures her friends and the
" c public, so far from intending to decline her
school, lhe has made a superior arrangement for
it the more convenient accommodation of her
fchotars.—Every branch of ufefui and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
„ Groomb.-.dge and mafttrs excelling in their
refpecliveprofeffions.
Corner cf Spruce and Eleventh SnVets.
June jcb, »7V7- slmfrf
rg T'nefituatinn is perTeAly Tiealtky ; and made
•- more agreeable by an ejttecfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hcufe.
City Commiflioner's Office,
January. 12th. ■-«»
FOR THE INFORMATION Qf THk Cl i? 79
yHE f&.iowing arrange meat U
&c. mmiffio " er '' Ccaafin/^
the fou.h fide of Chefa„t street to & T'l°
fuperintUhrc of Wilftfm Moulder 6
3 From the feutfc fide of Chefiut IW, .
the north fide of Spruce street, to be und".£
fuperjntendipce of Joseph Claypoole *
4. From til-north fide of Spruce street. to th.
-south fide of Csdar street, to be under th. r„?
perm tendance of Hugh Roberta. mwfjm
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, thu hi,
boots, which have been kept open for their ioLc
tu>nGnceDec«mberi7 9 6Tire balanced to theuft
ult. and w,U during the prefeot month
open at his Countiag-houfe in Chefnu: Strut fZ
their further inveftigatioa and fcrut : ny.
pn .... , JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ift 1798.
JhA received a Frejb Supply,
English Grammar,
A The second edition, with improvement!,
DAP ted to the different daffes of leaihcrt
with an appendix, containing rules ard ob
servations for adding the m<Te id f aßccd
to wntewith perspicuity a«4 accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" Th IS is a publication of much merit, ani fail,
anfwets the profeffions in the Title. 7he,-pp,„.
dix contains some of the bell rules far writrnTj.
1 legandy, and with propriety, that werecolWto
have Ceen.
« rk' M °nthlj Review, July
1 his Grammar is, on many accounts eoitlw
to commendatory n.tice, its mateiials hay< bcra
carefully and jtdicioufly felefted ; its araan Eantn .
.s<W.ma and well adapt.d to the purpose <J iu
Itrufiion and it* expression it simple,' perl'mctcs.
and accurate, &Ci M r »
See the charaßer at large in th* Analytic
Review, July 1796.
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publiTnet by
Lindley Murray, confiding' of exemplificatim of
the parts of fceech, inftancesof falfo orthogtpV.
; violations of the rules of fynrax, defers inpune-'
(uation, and violations of tj»e rules refpAin.
perspicuity and ay:«racy, defigoed itr the oeneft
of private-learners, at well as for theufe of fcLook
"We have been much pleased with the petuil
of these Exercises. They «cc»j>y withdiflinjuik
ed excellence a most important place in the lata:
of the Boglilh language; and as £uch, we oj
warmly recommend them t» the Teachers U
Schooh, as well as to all those who are defirouto.'
attaining and precision in their natit
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnlj 1797.
The above Bo«k« are for Tale at Josaph & Jawi
Crpksha.sxs book (lore, No. 87, Marker ftra.
January II; 3 tawsw.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AT framthc fubferiber, on the 149
of December, 1797, a Man, abouta
years aid, by the name of Cato.he is about j ia
7 or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned ;Le
hat a very covfc voice, his fore teeth fland vry
far apart; there were one or two with him-J
eannot rightly describe the doatht he took
him, si r he took two or three suits ; he hadu
half worn drab coTeurt^T tToi;, a half worn wl
hat ; he took with him four very good Eilrti-4
expcS he has made-for Philadelphia or the Jerir .
Whosoever takes up said negro aruifecureshim,;:
that the owner may get him again, fball haye tc
above reward, paid by mr, JOHN MOORIj
Livieg IH Still Pond, Kent county,
January 1. *6tj»w
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and con venient HOUSE, in or net
the centre of the city—for which a genero*
rent will be given; to he taken tor a Tear, or a
more for a longer term. Inquire of tht Printer.
OS. 17- ewtf
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Faij: American from
| London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chcfnut Street.
I CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbooks maybe hid gra
tis. These added to O't usual flock, fcrm an
1 extensive and elegant cotie<9icn of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in fua
dry languages and on various fubjeils.
Thii Day u Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, ha»d)"otntly
bound and lettered, and embellifhcd with an
elegant froatilpiece and seventy three cats.)
" The Looking Glass for the Miiid,
j O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colle&ion of interesting aid
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit 'o
'' voung minds the happy eft'efls of youthful in
-1 nocence and filial afFeflion—lll prose and vtrfe.
• Designed to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pubiilhec,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subft riptions for this incomparable wrrk will
- be thankfully reeeived by the f rir.tcr. The bcok
will ebntain about thiee hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de-
Rvered to fubferiber* neatly bound, lettered and
5 enr.hellifhed with an elegant frontifpiece, tar one
dolUr.
January 3. Jt-
This Day Published,
" And to be fold by WILUAM YOUNG, corner <M
Second and Ch-Crrat ftrcvts,
Pm* $-%lbs if a Dollar,
Qbfervations 6n cert am Dscuments
Contained in No. V and VI of
s " The History of the United States for
S the year 1796,"
In which the cbaics or srrccunoK s^aicS
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
-Late Seeaxt ah of the T»tasrar, is FULI.T
REFUTED,
f. rr IIT TK N BT BIMSEI r.
This publication prefects a scncife fiatetneit
u of the base means pridifed by the Jacobins of ti:
s United States to asperse the charaders of :Sh
e psrfoos who arc cwifideredas hoflile to their difcr*
gjnizing schemes. It also contains tie cc;-
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and
>r Monroe, Muhlcnburgli and Venab'e, on the f.b
~T jeci el the documents aforefaid, am! 1 series of ia
te ters from Jamet Reynolds and his xv-fe to Mr H«-
"• miiton, proving beyond the pofibitity of
lr that the connedior. between him and Reyooi«s*i
was the result of a daring confpirsiy cn the rati
of the latter and his associates to .extort money.
£jf" A difcoeot of one third from the retail
»e will be made in favor et wholcfa-e pirrrha&ts, f w
at casb. Orders to be a«'dreffed t; Alt Yous*.