ette of tDc States, —Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1694^
Nicklin Griffth,
At their Store 011 Walnut Street Wbarf—
HAVt FOR SALS,.
58 lihds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
TenerifFe do. in p pe«
OW Port do. in hh 1». Prog
Imperial Tea in quartera and eighths »f «h«ltj
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Mufiinets, ib paeka- j
pes suitable f»r the Well-India market
Nails assorted _
iilack quart'bottles ET
Queens ware in hhds. and crate* j n
Yellow ochre dry in calks ; j s
And at New-York, on board the nuf(
ftip Diana, from Liverpool, expected round j^ c
at soon as the navigatio» is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt Le ,
Coals
Spanilh Brown 1 _
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown i PAINTS Or
Patent White ,*
White Lead I
Red Lead # J
Colcothar vitr'*l .
160 bundles Sheathing pap« AII
Se;rr.ing Twine
Ship Diana,
T" or Sale or Charter. 1
A L S 0> bcr
Brig Amazon. w <
N- B. Ihe late firm of Philip Nickliu & Co.
'."-"TlcklNS GRIFFITH.
Januirv 1. codtf jj lt
for Savannah, u"
Thefajl failing Ship fel'
SWIFi PACKET, g;
regulir trader) n f (
pyDflfPatrick Gri»b.en, wfor,
- WILL fail on the nth Mill, ric
t ice permitting ) has har.dfc.me accommodations iJ<
for palTciigers. For freight or passage apply to era
the mailer on borrd, at Bick!ey'» wharf, above t 1
Marke-t-flreet, or '°
N. &J. Frtzitr, j"
No. 9 y T/ SouthFroßt-ltreet.
Ternary %. r to
For Amlterdam, •"
The Ship „
FARMER, n,
John M'Collom, Mailer ;
fi:Y fail in a few days, the 'fj
SS«sEiUs£S=Ss2greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
passage, app'y to the mailer on board, at Wal-
nut-street Wharf, or to so
JOHN SAVAGE.
Whs is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourileawx, and for lale, te
Claret in hhds. u
White, Wine in quarter calks ' c
Claret in fa'es, of a superior qualify 1
Fontiniac,}
Santerne, > Winetincafei
Lunille, J j,
Prunes in boxes I;
Novembe 14. p
for Sale or Charter, °
GOODHOPE p
Will carry ab iut 1 aoo barrels, and t
j; ready totake in a cargo. For terms °
apply *<» „ .
Pragers Iff Co. (
No. 151, South Second-street. t
Who have for sale—prime St. Croiot Sugar (
and Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine. ]
November 7. dtf 1
" For Savannah, in Georgia, |
THE SHIP I
EggJS|.Xy Captain Chisholm,
A veffcl, with excellent
SsS&SisSia^acommodations for passengers ;
Rails on the loth December. For Freight er
passage, apply to ROSS 3c SIMSON*
fVbn bat to difptfe »f,
A small invoice of GLAUHfc R SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel ofHOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
'IN'T HE PRESS,
AND SFEIBILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
(Prut IS Cents)
Refledions on Monroe's View
or THE CONDUCT OF TBS BXECUTirZ,
As publilhed in the
SAZETTEof the UNITED STATES,
Under the figuaturt of
scipio,
In which thecomtTfvcial warfare of France is
traced to the French fadlion in this country
as its source, and the motives of the opposition
to the measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8. %
"Boston Calais Manufadory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the mMiufa&ure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in
Bofion. „
It is needless to fay any thing of the eaeellest
quality of the Boft.n Glaf% as it isfo well known
throughout the United Sutest.be in every ref
pea to any ever imported Irom
be cat to any Gre commonly used ; and
may be cor.ftantly had, by applying to CUtUs F.
Xufftr, at theClaf, House.
Orders frrmthe dillant States to he addressed to
Mr. Sanitl Gore, C®urt-!lruet, Cotton.
■j' wo or three Glass makers are want
ed at the above works; fu»h as can produce re
commendation for good behavior, mayb« fureof
Otuplny, by application to Mr. George L. LmJt, at
the works. Men without iamilies w ill be pre
lerred However unacquainted with the methed
cf n aking Crown Wmdow Glass, they wiil meet
with thu fame encouragement. ■
Baflon. Janutry 16 * aawtw_
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOMAN juftariivid from England, warts a
nWe as a Nurreor attendant on thefick, either •" '
Otmleoian of Ladv.—Fo' fuitS.r i,.i..,mv 10.. a->ply
„ v„ s»ut» Fwirth ttieei, «"
Üb\ 5.
By John Fen no, N°* 119 Chefmit Street.
PHI LAD ELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, FEB RV ART 13, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED, P" d '
AND FOX lALC, AT * ' S
W. Young's Book-store, I Amo*
Corner of Chtfnm an<| Second flre«t», i ana '
fPric, 50 CtnU) j
Caufcs qui fe font oppofees aux
Progres du commerce, entre 1. FRANCE &t les G
Ki'A IS-UNIS de L'AM F.RIQj'K. cill 1
Avee les Moyens dc l'acc<lerer ; m>n
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Nationale
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des %,<•>■
ETATS-UNIS. r
In fix Lettre», addrefT6*s a Monfieurle Mar- luftr
quis dk la Fayette. Traduit fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien p| o y
Membre de la Legislature de la R6publiqu« but
du Maffachuffet. f " ,c <
Le Commerce efl. la portion la plus importante'des (
(RiAcfles Nationales.
—LeTridaitde Neptune, cftle fceptredu Monde. c '
pre(
Or caufcs that have been opposed to the fer*
PROGRESS of COMMERCE botween fr»e
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA, susp
With th: mean* of accelerating it j co "'
And a cbmparifon of-the National Debts
of England, France, and America. qu'i
In Six letters, dire&ed to the Marquis
BE LA FaYRTTE. dan
Translated (into French from the original Eng om
li(h Manufcrit* of Col. Sw.an, formerly a Mem- pßi
ber of the Legislature of A'laflachuletts. con
Commerce is the most important portion of the noi
Wealth of Nations. '"> r
The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of phi
the world. Lemur*. d«
AT a jun&ure when the question of
a Commercial Treaty with Fran:: nviy soon r|
btc uie an objeA of difcuflion, a work of this kind J[
becomes extremely ufe(ul to those eitizens of tks
United States, who may be defirons to enable them- y.
selves to view this fubjeft, under its various af
pedis ; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
furniflied with the neceflary data, to judge of the "j
ufelulnefsof this tranfa&ion. 1
This work is principally diftinguiflied by the » rl
richness of the obferva'ions, the ptrfpieuity of the tai
iJcas, and the modesty of the theory which it foi
1 contains. At Pars, a man of wit ebferved, that pu
: this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up in)
to the very roof with ufeiul produce. Itisaddref- w.
fed to the unfortunate La Favjtte, in letters, pr
which fugitive fo'm, the author who could only an
devote a few weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. AlthoUfh circumftancrs aia ill many VV
.refpefls different at the present day, from what t h
thiy were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfelute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
. lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
r the alterations, which have been made, are the rc
' fult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&ions, between free r
nations, every thing maybe expeAed from the ef
forts of truth and jufl ice. a"
LETTER I. "
> General view of the oblHcles, created in France, P
to pievent the extenCon el commerce, with the 0
United Stat • —Observations made in a tour, taken rt
for that express purpose, uponfome French manu- "
failures (a-precious fragment this). Examination d
ar.d refutation of the prejudices txifling in France, is
againlt the quality of certain productions of the It
United States, and igainft the advantages of their f<
importation —Demonitration of th. bad policy of It
laying duties en their importation, principally on fl
_ provisions in generM, and 01) fall provisions, and ] (
_ nth in pa ticular—Considerations 011 the regulations J
of the Freuch custom-houses. n
LETTER 11.
Obiladcs to the extenGon of trade with Fran re, a
piocecding from cireumftances and individuals in
,d the United States—Proofs tha: these obstacles are
, s only temporary and will be removed (they hava
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern- j
ment—Hiftoty of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant ] rinciples and abftraA
considerations on money and circulation —Causes
ar 0 f ,he (1 agnation of merican trade, after the 1
e. peace —Critical examination of French „oods, im- 1
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct ]
""" of the French merchants —Effcils of good com- ,
mercial laws; and patriotic wishes on this fubjeS— j
Observations on money, weights and nicafures. .
LETTER 111.
EfTayin the form us a ttHttu, to appraise the im
poitaiions into the United Slates from frtnee and tng
n' Itxi uiiW. The author eaamines at each article,
5 » whether it caw be better lumilhcd lr<»m France or
or England—lt is principally on this lubjeft (which
r - would have astonished a mere theorift)that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kind of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defiled, are the only fuie guides
the ftatefnun can take far th policy of ttcaties. ,de
— prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We onnot too much admite the apparent ex
aftnefi of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the propheftea of Lord Sheffield have alreaoy been
. cpniradiSed by expeiience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the prelenl work,
dispute with him. the only gioutd he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
' than Great Britain to supply us with fevetal articles,
which the Englilh author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's partiality affefl tm (if he
his any) does not appear to have at any time created
trv a partiality of \uigmnt. Ihe result of this calculation
• is that in 1789, that is to fay, at a period when arts
10 " and manulafi lies did not present in France the vail
' means and probability of cxtenfion which they nr^w
poff fs. that even in 1789, it was prelumable, that
Fiance would not only have the means to supply one
half of any ((iven quantity of the produftions of Frame
ehy an 4 Inland unitet, butalfota enter into competition
low wll h Gieat Britain for lh« remainder, in proportion
ein to the wildoin t)f her govcrnmmt, and the mdultry
of her inhabuantl.
lent LETTER IV. "
>wn Calculation of the exportations of the United States,
res- and particular examination of their lunablenefs to
rom Fiance; this is one realou why, noiwitWftatiding the
excell nt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's la
an(j Horn is by no means fcpeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result 10 France from the
' importairnn of provisions and raw materials, is every
, where applitd ; and it is upon this argument, thst
the author ißablilhes his demaads to (he French go
vernment, for the limited admifbon of the produc
ant~ lions of his coantry into France,
sre- LETTER V.
re of Tableau, of the deb; of the United States at that
2t time Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
pre- effcAsof national debt, on ci culatior., ice. tsjnote
thed amply detailed in his National Arithmetic prin'.ed at
meet hollos, in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, tin- pubic and private credit
6w of the United States —thfTiappy CO: ]C in on of Ameri-
CJ| tad ihe mifenes ariii ig from ihe public debt in
Europe, are con traded in the ablcll snanner, and hn
ir.ts a J«r the most ftrtking lelasions, by very cu ious cal
on j cu'aiions —Observations on ihe wisdom and economy
prefide over the public expenses in Maffachu
■ [.' fetta. in tnis place ihe patriolifm of the author ap
.. Dears, with all tne clevauou which ajuli national
pride infpiies. Tl.eaiyitnt g'vcnraeou of Europe,
lavs he, will le.rn from us■ tlie art ot economy in
r'conipenfui" 1 lie U-ivice» whirh tl.e efirfnirv receives;
Among/} ui it toil: bt fun, lU «uit trt chtjta for places,
anJ wi ftiMti for men. Th j letter co'.clud.s wiiti » B •"
gcncial vifw of the public o o\>en\, drained iu n-e a«t
hands of the government oi the Uniud S'.steA. O
LETTER VI • ing
Genrral rxoini lition ot the of the commer- ry f
cisl policy or France with refpett to the United Su:es; p re
many ot their obf»rvatioiu have produced the ifMU ti e 9
f»r which they were intei.Vd, 9ibers (till remain-, e j
pointing out the reforms to be made in futuie, as a t [, e
go jii chart marks the thoals and rocks. Theau'hor cu j (
concludes his w#rk, by fixing his attemiou on his | gm
country, and the ,;reat men who have ici dcred it it-
luflrious* arid we lake a pkalure in quoting what he ,
(ays of the present chief of our governmeiu. Io
praile a man when he e erciles a diiiinguilhed em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for fisttery ; 'j 05
hut whtlft he is in private life, it is the homage of dl i"
fince.ity. offi '
j Note, page 316 of the work, » >
I * Les habiians des btats-unis, fuivant dairs leur Bid
! choix le bien public, lc rxcyes par un principe de abo
reconnoiffat.ee, choitircnt M. John Adams pour vice- .<
prefidcnt du nouve. u congres. Ses cftorts, pour pre- lifh
feiver le peuple des intrigues foimees par le gouv
frncment Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres
fufpeft a ceux <5 ii etoi.nt en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, lc choifit pour un de les
leprelentaru dans le premiei congres. DecenoHlbra
etoit suifi M Samuel Ai'ams, patriote aulfi intrepide,
qu'intaiignble. La revolution Ameticaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, it a (es talcns
dittiiiges. C'.UX Cjiie M. John Adams a developpes
dans le tiaite de pal*, qui s'eft fait 1 Paris en 1783, T<
out prouve qu'tl etoit miniltrc auffi habile que gfand
po itique. Lt uar.s son ouvrage fuK la defeme de la
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can
noilHnces qui tirment les vrais jurvfconfultes h les
h.irnnjcsde 1. i; coonoillances neceffairM, pour.«un
uiir honurablem.nt lei foncl:Bns de prefidcnt ou fen«
des E:a'.s-unis.
Hoafe and Lots, in Hordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handfaraetyro story House,
with tlie Lot on which ii ii> eredled, fituat- %
ed aboat the middle of the beautiful and beaithy
Village as Bordentewn. The house is forty
two sett in front, and in neat order. The l»t
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on qu
the main street, »Rd extends with the fame
breadth to back lireet. Alio, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required'upon cxecut- J.
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such cr«dit
will be given at the purchifer may thufc. This , 3
, property will be fold free ef all incumbrances, g
and an indisputable title given. »
For further particulars enqtiire tither of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, »ear
; the prtmifts, who will (hew the fasne, or of
I PETER THOMSON, s o
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-ltreet.
r>fremhfr t. 3» wtf
f Jfrinceton —lSew-Jerjey. k.
M
; To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in whioh
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two stories high,
of frame work and painted. -There are four a
j rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and fi*t
room? on the second floor, she cellars are C
n dry, and the garret specious—The back yard F
!, is paved with ftoncs. In it are a well of excel- O
e lent water, an even, a smoke house, and house SI
r for alhes—and behind it a carriage house, hay A
>f loft, grapery, and convenient (tables, with tour
n flails for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
d lot is 6-> ftet wide upon the flreet, and 254 feet
18 deep, somewhat more than half of whi h is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil. a
For terms, which will be matle very reason-
e > able, pply to the reverend
" Samuel S. Smith.
I January 19. aaw^w
1- For sale or to be let on ground
a rent,
es j A valuable Lot of Ground ;
1C PITUATE on the north-east coiner cf Wal- C
n- O nut and Fifth flreers, fronting the State
a Hcul'e square. This lot is fifty-one sett front
"" on Walnut street, and nne hundred and thirteen J
- feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
1 present two small two story brick houl'es, and a
I number of lmall tenenstnts thereon.
"• Also. for Sale,
£ Two three story Brick Houses
or I With convenient stores, wharf, flee, situate on
ch Water street, between Mulberry an j Salfafras
ic l r I Streets, containing in front on Water street fij-
C I ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eaft
-1" ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
ie- I south thirteen feet fix inches. These houles
ei- I have the convenience of a puhl.t alley atjj iin
ex- ing on the north fide, and area very defirableftt
igh uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
Een I who may have cccafion for storage of goods.
!DS ' This property will be fold on very reasonable
' k ' terras for cadi. For further information-apply
h " to the printeh
m
to Cabinet Makers, Joiners, c.
cv- I
ited Cavanagh & Hearn,
> on I T'ine street, near the New-Tiarket,
"(1 "D ETURN thankv to their friends and the
! JCV public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their u»rem !in» attention, to
one I merit a continuance of their favors. T^epart
mct I nefftiip between them and Joseph B.Barry, has
lion I been diffblvcd by mutual consent. Cavanagh
lion 1 2nd He?rn liavejuft received a quantity of St
u,y Domingo and Honduras Mahogony, which they
intend to fell on very reasonable terms forcafti.
1 Orders from the country naoft punctually exe
' .0 cuted. Vincers of ail kinds c»t a* ul'ual.
.hr I J». ri-
ta- IN THE PKIiSS,
l |"* I And speedily tuill tc Puhlifatd,
'' e I for the benefit ol the
thill I MARINE SOCIETY of the UNI I'ED STATES,
ao- I A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
due- 1 tfritt'n at Sea, in the year 1 794 •
I And now printed
1 »r THS AVTmi.
that I «* \ kavv woitM he jaiai®t**m but to an alinoft
II l^c I useless purpcle winch taking the fcamen kept tha
nolc I merchantmen itll* in port, and trading vefliU
V' a! I would lie as unprofitably employed, if tney took
" ,'° ill thofefcamenwhofefkillandoourageonboard (hips
rcdu ol war, would givii tl*m pr teai«n aid fecurc
" C,U 1 their fafcty. We hav. enou S h for both purposes,
m 1 aud the cultivating haniJ »t attention alone mvant
caT '"g tu thtir number. " M.n.y may buy
, omv |« all naval ftjrjs, except mariner*; bm unlcis a
:chu- I " supply of them i c preserved, no wealth w»u be
rap- I " able to procure tl.cna."
io«al J February 7. '
Bank of Pennsylvania. .
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
H .nk on Fiiday, th* id February, 1798, purfu
aßt to public notic«—
On motion, R.folved, That, this meeting be- - _
ing imprc/Ted with a due fcn f e of the extraordina
ry ferviccs and attention of Samuel M. fox, Esq. Co
frefident of this Bank, in the e.'.ecation of the du. Sar
ties of his office ; whicji have beea much incrtaf- Hu
ed by the peculiar Ctuation of the institution, at bU
the period of Ills appointment; and ly the diffi- Ch
culties oecafioned ip Confrqaeilce of tho recent ca- M ;
lamity in this city ; —a committee of three geatl'e- M.
men be appointed to prepare a piece of )?late, of a (; j
value nnt exceedingfive hundred dellars, vrithfuit
able emblems and devices, tu be presented so Mr,
Fox, in the naire of the Stockholders, as an evi
denee of the high fenfc thty entertain of his late t; a
official ferviccs. • Q,
William T. Smith, Peter Wikoff, and Charles
Riddle, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for the
above purpose.
i .Oidered, that the preceding relolution befu'j
: lisicd.
Estra& from the minates.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Cbait Tfiun. Ol
Attejl—J©hn Sitgreaves, Secretary. coi
M;
Frejh Fruit. ga
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, jufl above the Draw- j
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frode
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pearce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom RaiPns in k;gs
Do. Uo. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.
Figs in k~gs
Almond kernels in cases and bo*»
Solt Ihell'd almonds in sacks
a Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
The whole'of the articles fhippid as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Piter Kuhn.
February 5 d£t^
The cargo of the Weft-Indian fre>m w
Jamaica,landing at South Street wharf, P 1
136 hhds. and 300 barrels choice Coffee
98 H"hds of prime Sugar ~~
39 Hhds. of Rum.
JFor sale By /
Peter Blight. D
WHO ALSO OEFERS FCR SALI,
500,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
80c Bags do Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Ked Prrt Wine in pipes and hogflicads
Madeira do. in pipes r
February 6 d2weotm
Prison Manufadlory.
FOR SALE,
At thePfifon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all fifes, from to aody ti
Flooring Brads, Sprigg*, faddlc and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakus a'nd Sadlcrs Thread
Also—Saw ed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea . Hones, hearths, chimney pieces, j
. platforms, slabs, facia, window hea4«, ftUs, c . 0
All which may he had on reafonahle terms,
Shoes rn3dc and Weaving done at said Prison at tl
a»Odtract.price. f
Orders from a dirtance, direAed to Daniel TUo- t
ma% agent for the puifon, will be attended to.
December 26 mtk6in
Jufl Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of MdTrs. Dob
son, Cavipbell, Younc and Ormrcb,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
- On the Causes and Cure of Remitting #r Bilious
Fevers. '
j To •u bicb is annexed, 1
H AN ABSTRACT of the opinions
lt different authors : and an APPENDIX, cxhib- <
a . iting interesting fails and relative to
the Synocbus J£reroides y or Y'ellow teyer, which
has occasioned so much diftrofs and mortality,
at diffVent periods, in feverai of the fcaport
towns of the United States ot America.
n by WILLIAM CURRIE,
18 Felow of the Philadelphia College of FhyCcians,
f - and Member of the American Philo.opßicaJ So
t- c!«ty. Feb. 1—
l e s COLUMBIA HOUSE *
n " BoardiftgSchool for young Ladies.
a jilS. GROOMBJ<IDGE with much pleaf
,rS jyJL ureand refpeifl, returns her sincere ac
?' knowledgemcnt for the liberal encourrigement
j C (he has received durirp four yt Jl: s refidsnce in
Philadelphia; and afl'ures her friends and the
public, so far from iatencling to decline her
T school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
C. the more acCßinmodition of lier
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite,
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and maftera excelling ill fheir
refpeiSive profeffion.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
3tl June sth, 1797. J:mftf
t0 The litsation is perfeiflly healthy : and made
rt " more agreeable by an cxtenlive garden aad lot
,a *. of ground
st : Canal Lottery —No. 11.
if y <
"TYTILL commence drawing Monday, theaeth
tC " W in ft. Tickets for Sale in fltis Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wu, JBLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Seeond-flreet —
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifler
ing and examining in these, the City ol W alhirtg-
SS, ton, No. 11.and Paturfon Lotteries, and informa
in : tion where tickets may be bad in moft*of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of tht States of the
ynion.
N.B. The bifinefs of a BaoKut, in buying and
10 ft felling all kinds of l*ub;!c Stock and Securities,
tha I difco»nting Bills and Notes of Hand, (jle of
r,| a Ltmis. Houses, 3tc. &c. will be duly attsnded to,
" k by 1 Wta. ULACivBURN.
,Ip S November ij. §
ttrc For Sale,
' so ', The time of* yon.ig Mulatto Girl, about
J b nt l twelve vears old, has about eleven years to serve.
She very capable of taking care of a child,
1 au4 underflands house work. Enquire at No.
a-.. North sth fircet.
J Jan. i*. *cod»«r
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCKIBI K3, No. 21, Penn-flrtet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
C»ryljll.lg of ,
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Codies Puiijnm Cloths
Sanahs Gu/ieydo.
Humhums Charconna Dore*
Blue Cloth Tanjibt
Chintz and Calicoes MulniuU
Mamoodyt. Checks
Maharagonges Patna Bkfs.
Ginghiir.s Mulrtiu»do.
Guzz<&as Bandannoes
Guixahs Siflertoy
Pinial'cots Choppa Romili
Salgatchys JSooly do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various Ml.
Mwck Pulicatt
ioo tons SUO.SR
99,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings S3 3 Francis.
' The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to lale at that
commodious ftorc the north weft corner of
Market and Fourtb-ftreets.
Also—A few Bales as Madrafs HVfs. ef *1«-
gant patten t and belt colours
Pebfuary 8. dtf
" ' FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street. \
> A quantify of Tannrr's Oil,
4th proot Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
lit and ad proof Brandy; J drawback.
Madeiia Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 91 eoitf
St. Croix Sugars.
36 hogsheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR, '
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the business of the kitchtn. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of thePnnter.
February 7 §
WANTED
' A young Gentleman to go
Do&or ot a ahip 10 the East-Indies.
Enquire at No, 25 Do.k Street.
Feb. 6. ' •• diw
Ran away from the Subfcriber 9
On the 24th January lail,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a middling sued ft autre , thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the lace—s>h©
carried off a 1 undlc of lintn with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, corner of Fourth-street,
lhall receive two Dolla*« reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbor* f id Girl a;tcr this no
tice, lhall be prosecuted to tin fevirity of the law.
Februaty io. H3t
NO TICK
ALL persons who have any demands against
. the eliatc ol WILLIAM COMFTON, lat
of the city of Philadelphia, deceased, are reques
ted to lurnifh their account., duly attefled. And
those who are indsbted to Ciid tlt.it , areearnaftly
l'slicited to make immediate payment, to cither of
she fubferibers.
JJaac Cathrall, 1
" John Ijawortb, J- Adminiftrattri.
Samuel Wilcox. J
January ly. , WB4W
NO T I C E.
ALT. per£>ns indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the Diilri«sb of Soathwark, deceased,
are requeued tc make immediate payment to either
of the Subscribers; and those who have any de
| mands against said estate, are requeued to bring in
. their accounts duly attested, to
.> Murphy) ")
Peter Scravenjyie, L ExtCU '
Thomas FarreU, J tor, »
January r6. *uwaw^w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by W ILLIAM YOUNG, cornea ©f
Second and Chefnut (lrect%
_ (Price 3 Bf£.» of a dollar)
Obfet vations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
£ " The Hiftgry of the United State* for
... the year 1796,"
In which the charge ol speculation agaiftft
„ ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
ie Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
. r REFUTED,
3,. WRITTEN LT HIMSELF.
cr This publication pre fen ts a concjfc ftatemtnt of
te the base meacs pra6lifcd by the Jacobins of the
, s United States to asperse the chara&er? cf those
■ r persons who arc confidcred as hostile their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubje«ft of the
documents aforefald. and a (cries of letters from
e James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilton,
j proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, thatthjß
I connexion between him and Reynolds was the re
s fultof a daring cbnfpiracy on the part of the lat
ter and hisa(loeiate« to extort money.
(pf A difconnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholcfale purcha-*
at fers, for cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr.
, S y Youno
February 9.
SALES BY AUCTION.
'f. Stated Sales
tc- For D R Y GOO DS.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. ji,
tn A / tront-ftreet,
ad "on Afternoon —Footman Sc. Co. No.
Iet ' South Front-street.
0 f yortnoox—John Connelly, Old City
,0 ' rr rj .» AuiJlion, No 73 fout'n From-llrctt.
luy aj!~. Afternoon—William Shannon, No,
a- j rj J Afternoon— Peter Bcnfun, No. 74
3Ut \ south Third-flrcet.
yc. C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
ild, Tbtir J ia J \ Afternoon —John Connelly,
■so. p , ? Forenoon—William Shanua*.
"J ] Afternoon —John Connelly.
Seturdi^Aftertioou —Peter iiaufon.
['Volume XIIIfVJSHINGrON LO7 -T£Hr,—Xi. u.
Ll«r OF t'MZF.S and Rlanks.
leSlk Day's Drawing—Jumary 6.
.Vo. Doh. fro. Dolt. fro. Djh. fro. Uolj. tl
iio 13160 x i. 6 ' 14 381 {
1,9 19S 990 118 - <0 DI
ji6 17098 175 x
I4OJO J3* K J
jo? 8 077 18038 *45
tit 484 fio ° x 9 10
571 776 B °° x T ,
15T< x .J463 ■ *9736
3006 494 3°OJ« x 4 °9 g i
2.56 x 9°« x 4 " 5 £ X
6ot 16011
6A4 17104 x 954 4 9* fir
gii 154 97 1 43900 x co
4657 784 3**3B x 44775 de
Z2O x 18457 * 114 45039 * bt
6824 607 * no 5*4 ,
945 761 x 33' i 46 ,
7003 19309 611 * *
07; 710 Bj6 936 et
453 10089 15 9°J 40311 m
915 118 31J48 441 x w
8180 310 6 i° x fii
5 z6 41586 x 33t46 47 1 0' tl
597 1H53 x 91 4 "o ft
9497 x .<95 x 34037 15 39*
Jl3 168 * J
1003 4 >3689 353H 93* ft
1.140 715 x 48016 "
S<t «44 x "I tl
<B9 24131 x ? 6 6 ?* * c<
841 495 3/9 ' B^
997 J 6 * x 77 I t,
11063 717 "5 49096 x t
106 780 37®«3 ,6 ' '<
4jß 15 i? 054 160 4 " 1° b
<sl x 16195 371 3 86 x tl
913 456 . 9'9 I
J3116 10 598 10 .975 n
1 eoth Day's Drawing—January 8.
jn 17497 I?7°8 39 08 7
toßo 637 19°5 S °?7 '
158 x «33 733 4 9
•516 858 30081 31* v
634 18700 3 4? 73 * f
4547 858 * 3»i9« x 40x06 x j
6583 19090 x 31108 133 X
711 »I 5 x 3t4 X 41630
718 643 x 673 , 43.591
8114 780 33 '4l 44118 x 1
384 813 104 400 (
lone x 10301 141 595 f
11920 616 19 1 8 45 » (
i224Z 11937 * 3*641 45 c ®" 40 ,
374 130.19 9 6 3 x 4 -55 ,
468 x »6z 3i°44 x 691 x
,, 4Q7 124 X 46761 X <
724 24138 735 47 ° j ' x '
t MSS x s***> 811 sSj>
577 x *5*74 * 48* 61 ,
15C41 x 566 x *
i6iia 26526 x *s3
360 754 37133 50 I" x
x 17430 35174 666
X 735 7 x 617 x UK gg 3
At Mr. Rickets's Circus,
Corner of Chefnut and Sixth !lrect«,
On TUESDAY evening, February 13,
Will bo exhibited a Grand FIRE WORK, eonfili
ine of two kinr!» of Tir-s. Ard for the firfttime,
two Men »od twe tlcrfes will ride round the Cir
cus fnrrounded with Fire- works.
Fire XL orh nnjijtmg entirety/ inflammable *ir, viz.
A representation of the arms of Pen*fylvama.
Thof<'.{ Mew-Jtrfey, New-York, Massachusetts.
Ch»r!ellon, &c. &c.
The printipal illuminations are, those of ft.
Paol'3, l.ondon; St. Peter's, of Rome; the inva-
Hd the baftile, and Vanxhall, »t Paris, &e.
fire Tlorh unjijlingof v.irious eoMinationi of comkufi
tie mutters, vix.
Tha great American fur. rising from its horizon.
The grand wir.d-miU of Don Quiiotte, together
with its changes. _
A great'mechanical piece,changing intodicercnt
figsres every time it turns.
The furpriflrg piece of Bacchus; a mechanical
piece.
Apiece rcprcfenttng ealcadesin every dirstlioa,
and teimisating in a riofegay.
The great Italian rose ; a piece of variatives.
A great portico ornamented with four spiral eo
lumnt, and crowned with a batluftrade, with the
artr.i of the United Stat«» in tb« centre ; apiics
unitin" hoth kinds of firs.
Filteen Chinese squibs, with fifteen fixed flars,
will terminate this superb fire work, which Mr.
AMBROISE, from his attention and expsnces,
flatters hin.feSf will'afford the public a mod agice
ablediverfion.
Ani in addition, a surprising CHILD, sineyears
o'd, will execute Concert,, composed by Ignace
Plrycl, on the Forte Piano, newly invented by
Mr'. A IbrecHi. The Infant Virtuoso it a pupil of
a celebrated malUr 01* thi- city.
The doors will be ope*«dats o'clock, ind
the fire-works will begin *t 6 o'clock.—Box, three
' quarters of a dollar ; Pi*, three-eighths of a dol-
Days of perfntmance, Tuffday and Satur
(lly Tickets to be had at the Cintus, or at O'El
lers's Hotel.
•' Mr. FRANCIS
RESPECTFULLY informs tl»>' fubferiberi to
his Select Balls, that th'. la ft of the prcfent Sub
scription will be on Tuesday, the 13th.
Subscription and Ladies' Tickets, to bt had hy
application to Mr. Francis, No. 70, North Eighth
ft reet. « Feb. 10- jt
Bafkenridge—tor Tale
r' consists of 910 acres, almod all of wh eh is
a finj rich Meacfow, (the residence of "the late
Rjrlof St rling). It may he conveniently dnided
into five farms, fourol whiih arc bounded on the
f„ift by the river Pi.faiek.
Th>£■ are on it a number of buildings, forming
*ft[Jire of nearly threeaere*—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one and[a fmallcxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finabearing engraf
ed Appl:Trees—and there is 011 otlwr parts ol fai
tra&ticar 300 other Apple 1 ree«—aa afo a great
variety of othFr fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed aud mod delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
sorest Trees, that add to thi beauty and eonveni
«nce of the place. Its situation is about i 3 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and II from Springfield—lt
ia wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in caff), on delivery of th« deeds. Please to cn
nire of T. McEUEN&Co.
N«. 78, Clicfnut trect.
February *. eo<Jlf
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber h«5 a large, convenient two
ftoiy brick House, with Stable*, Carriape
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jerfty, which he wilhes to
sill. For ternuapuly at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GKOUGE WALKEK,
Who has elfo fcr Sale,
liOts in Waftington City,
Ccntiguout to tke Capitol and to the principal
Vtarbour.
December 19.
CONGRESS. th;
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
DEBATE ON THI »EPO*T OP THE COMMITTII
or PRtVILkOBS. ''r
_ th:
F*RIDA Y —FEBRUARY 9. ge
{Continual from ytjlerdmy 4 Gazette.) do
The House having resolved itfelf into a Committee VYi '
of the Whole, on the Report of the Committee wl
of Privileges, Mr. Dent ia the Chair, 3S
Mr. Otis said he was one of those who vvi
sincerely wished that the question before the be
committe could have been decided without th
debate, and that the world might not have
been informed that in that house a difference th
of opinion could exist on such a fubjeft. He wi
believed that there was a standard of propri- rt
ety a moral sense of decency existing in the T
mind of every gentlemai, which if followed di
would condnfl them to ijuft decision. The fie
finger of featiment pointed out the road to nc
their own duty and their country's honor; jig
strait was the gate, and narrow was the way. er
They might avert their eyes from this faith- ta
ful monitor, but they could net be <leaf to fu
its voice, nor should they escape the chagrin hi
that would arise when cool refle&ion should it
convincethem thattheyhadbeefc iwftrumetital tt
in sealing the infamy of the national legifla- fa
ture by difobryirig itl diflatea. The pre
sent question he stated was not a question l?<
between the gentleman from Connefticut and h;
the member from Vermont, but between the le
House of Representatives and one of its fa
members who feenaed to be unmindful of the n
dignity and decency that ought to be at- fa
tached to that character. It was a queftioA o:
between the people of the United States, g
whose dignity had b«en insulted iri the per- o
son of one of its representatives and the de- p
linquent who had committed the infnlt; be- e;
twees the whole U«ioti and the state of Con- v
ne&icut, an intelligent part of that Union. C
It was a coatroverfy of principles, a war of n
outrage: upon decorum, a struggle between d
ferocious paflions and wholesome restraints. p
On such a qucftien all party spirit should f
cease, all private friendfhip and political at- r
tachment should be fufpet>ded,and they were h
called upon to unite in a joint effort to save f
themselves from common infamy. t
In considering this question, he would c
challenge any one to shew fe fharneful an aft J
of aflault and battery, committed r
provocation, at any former period, or in a- t
ny country. It would be in vain to look t
to any of the states of Europe, agitated a«d 1
convulsed as they are, for such an offence. ;
No man conversant with the history of the f
Six Nations, or verftsd in the traditions of ]
the Cherokees or Creeks, or of aay lavage i
tribes, who, in the fir ft rudiments of focie- <
, ty find it necessary to affociatc and deliberate 1
on their common ioterefts, could poiut out i
an inftancc of outrage so monftrons, so a- 1
bominable. It was conduit contrary to ]
the principles of all association good and 1
bad. It was that would break up> '
• a brothel and put an end to a den of robbers.
At the recital of it the countenance of «ve
ry Americaa reddened, at the thoughts of
it his heart grew sick. He did not mean,
however, to attempt an aggravation of the
offence; but it was aa event which had deep
ly affe&ed him—he had thought of it by
day, and when upon his pillow, he had not
I forgot jt.
Whit was said in defence of the member .
' from Vermont? No attempt had been made
to juftify his eonduA ; yet some gtntlemen
. had brought forward circumstances of ex
e tenuation. What wete they? It was said
« some provocation was gives, and that some
allowance ought to be made on account of
'' the situation of the house at the time.
8> With refpeft to the provocation, he
would mot now enquire whether any prov
ocation could juftify the offence which had
s been committed ; but on examination into
° fadb, it would be found that the provocation
,f was on the part of the gentleman from Ver
mont, at his was an accusation founded in
d error, whilst that of the gentleman from
j Connefticut was founded is truth; as the
._ (lory of the woodea sword, aritjhg from the
). gentleman from Vermont having been cash
iered and disgraced from the army, was sot
denied ; whilst what had been said with ref
,o pest to the representatives from Connefli
j. cut a&ing contrary to the lenfe of their
constituents, was founded in faljhood. These
>' were charges made aloud, and which the
II gentlemen from Connefticut, if he did not
_ hear them, might have heard as well as not.
And shall it be said, that members of that
hutife who quit the comforts of home, the
pleasing fuciety of friends, and honorable
te employments, to serve their country ; shall
;d khey be told, that their motives are venal ;
it that they are a&uated l.y a vvifh to obtain
offices in which theymightJlarv: in splendor,
'j? and in which they would be abused with im ■
Id puntty ? Yet this was said by the gentleman
from Vermont ; so thaft the provocation
if came from him, and of seeking
here for_extenuation, nothing but aggra-
j le vation was found.
With refpedt to the situation of the
house at the time, gentleman who have re
course to this circumstance, must fan6tion
" one of two p«/fitions, viz. the house
]t was not in session, or. that the members of
the house were to be protested whilst in cer
re tainjjufinefs, and not in others. With ref
n* pefl to the house not being in feflion, could
t it be said, that after it had been regularly
formed, it could be dissolved without a vote
for the purpose ? Should it be said that
g, whilst the speaker was in his chair, members
were fafe.{ but, if he stepped out of it,
0 . club-law should immediately commence ;
: e- that they were to be protested on this fid*,
tv and not on that fide the bar ; that this fide
•° was a favMuary, but that that was a btar
garden ; that in their feats they were fafe,
but if they walked out of them they were
liable to be cudgelled 4 Surely not ; these
miflaktt arofc from a misunderstanding of'
>a ' the rules under which they afttd. They
were intended to prevent offerees from be-
ing
t.Viat offence* should take place after the
speaker had left his chair, as whilll he was j
in it. It could hardly be supposed, that j„fl
wliilft the speaker was in his chair, and ev- rt f i
ery member in his feat, that any violence lie
should happen. It conld not be expefted | >e '
that even the member from Vermont \totild -
<ts and spit in a mtmlcr'j face, or Inock him jr
down, whilst ht was fitting in his place. It ]
was when members were outlideof the bar,
when theyw?re not mxlerfo much re!lr*int S.
as at otlser-iTues, that the rules of the house to
' were mod-liable to be infringed ; and mem-
ben were surely protested as much as if .
, . f tio:
they were in their leats. g tt
The gentleman from Virginia bad stated p s ,
that a great part of the members were go
without t'ne bar of the house ; b.it was no gei
rtfpeft due to !who were within it ? ' !a '
They were certainly not inHruments to the mt
disorder. Would the people have any coti ,' ni
fidencr in their repreferita'ires if they had f e f
nothing to do but go out of th% bar to its
fight ? This vvas a diftitiftion which he nev- wa
er expefled to have been set up, and it cer- th
■ taiftly arose from a prejudiced -view of the
i fubjrft. He believed the American/people
had already anticipated their decision, and rc f
1, it could only be in one that the house and cu
1 the country could be saved from indelible in- W
■ fumy. cit
The fame gentleman fsid that all the mem
i tyers might have left the house. If this re J
1 had been the ease, or if a'grealer part had )ja
; left it, he fuppoftd the speaker would have f|
s said there was not a quorum, and the bufi- e d
: ness could Bot have proceeded. Mr. Otis si]
- said he did not mean to go into the fubjeft b
1 of privileges, though he did not, like the ,
, gentleman from Virginia, hate that or any °'^
- other fubjeft, the discussion of which was
- properly before them. He thought, how- th
- ejftr, that the conduft of tKe member from fu
- Vermoit in faying that if the members from th
. Connedlicut were to vote ngainfl a certain c
f nsotion, which was then the order of the m
ii day, they would be turned out of their
i. places, was a direst attempt to control the f 0
d freedom of debate ; the gentleman came !«a
> recking from Connefticut, where he said he jio
e had ascertained the sentiments of the peo- j ,O
e pie, and undertook to intimidate and abuse
the members from that state. Wat it not j r
d clear that such conduft had a tendency to ;
3 provoke recrimination ? And if it were ad- |
it rnitted, it must be evident they had nothing t j
l- to expeft but disorder, llo«dfbed and mur- f c
k der / If gentlemen decided reafbnably, they w
d must decide that there never could be a J,,
e. greater outrage than this committed with tl
ic so little provocation. The resolution re- a
sf ported by the committee of privileges was f r
re a proper one, and to agree to it, was the 0]
e- only way in which they eould purge the tl
te house of its pollution. If this was not done, d
jt it could not be expefted that this would be
j- the lafl affray which would take place in the e l
;o presence of that aflembly ; if not done, w
id the people would lose their confidence in <«
ipl their representatives ; and if not done, he, g
s. for one, fhoold feci the honor of a feat in ft
e- that house, as greatly diminished and over- b
of (hadowed—a» falling, as declining. Indeed l e
b, the only fatisfaftcry mode would be, to fend M
ie the member from Vermont back toliis con- ;t]
p- ftituents ; which would shew te the world, tl
>y that a conduft like this could never receive c
ot the fanftion of the American people. If c
this mode weie not adopted, it would be tl
er .better for the house to expunge its rules, ' a
ie and trust to their own forbearance for'the p
rn observance of order; or they had better b
x- adjourn, and leave the public business un- ;f,
id done. It is better to have no rules at all, h
ne than fuffer them to be thus grossly violated h
of with impunity. b
Mr. RtfTLfDOf said, he was hoc difpoficd to h
he ac ept the invitation which had been given yes- ! v
v- tcrday to pats over in silence a fubjeift which uaft
a( ] an indelible (lain upon the legislature of the •
to United States —He was furprif*d at this inviti
tion being given, and greatly so at its coming
on from th eqwarterit did. He did rot suppose | a
tr ~ that twemy years has so tooled the hlood of the b
in hero of Mud Fort (Gen. Smith) —he did not fl
>m imagine that short space of time would have c
be brought so much philosophy to bis mind as to fj
permit him to give a silent vote refpe<s\ing an
offence which wounded the chara<i>er of his
country, and preflrated her dignity and honor. J 1
Mr. R. said, he must own, that he had not the '
f '- philosophy of that gentlemen, but (hould ex- tl
it- prels, ii) flrong terms, the abhorrence which he c
eir felt for this giof# indecency. He hoped they (
c f e OouW expel the r*ember who had thus offend
ed j he was perfuadtd, sri m whit he saw m the
li»ufe, that he would not be expelled uuanimeuf- r
JO ly, but he trusted the vote would be carried by '
ot " more than two thirds of the members present. f
iat If he Ihould he disappointed in his expectation,
:he and the hottfe,wa& not to be cleansed of its pollu> ;
ble tioa, fume eonfolationtohimto/eileift
a J] upon his not having given a silent vote —it would
. afford him some comfcrt when he thould return
to his constituents, who, he was persuaded, in s
al " commoß with their fellow citizens, from Geor- '
cr > gia to Nrw-Hampih re, would be scandalized t
im- l>y the ««irageous iadecency of the Vermont {
tan member, to have it to fay that he did cot fit ft:!! :
Jon on the p efest •ccafion —that unused as he was (
j n „ to public speaking—never having aR oceafion to
speak in public except when at the feat of gov- '
IS " eminent —he had refilled as much as his feeble S
talents would permit hitn the admifli' aof an in- '
'^ e decency which would (if not pupifhed with set
re- verity) turn this house into a bear garden, and i
ion an arena for gladiators. ,
, u s e It appeared to him that the gentleman from
0 f Virginia had spoken to-day. b:eaufe he flood in
order te lpeak. Yeflerdey he did not with the '
■ e *" yote to be taken until he had delivered his fen- '
T "~ tisncpti. He wished that gentleman had felt as I
u 'd much for the dignity of the country, as he did i
irly for tlx gentleman from Vermont; if so, t e |
ote committee would hot havt had to liflen to his (
bat up-biUfpeecbt Ti c genllcman wo rd
for uling / this term, as his observations
' • were inaccurate, and he had recurred to things 1
1 ' aa fa<S» which were notfo. <
cc » The gentleman had undertaken to fay the
house was rot in fefT:on, % without attempting to j
fide prove it. In confirmation of this opinion he
rar - said, that a feoltor fat in his (Mr. N't) feat, ,
a f e during the coufcting of the ballots, and wrote a
' letter." This, Mr- K asserted was untrue. —
j- Whim the senator was standing without the
1r bar, he was requested by a member from Perm
°* fvlvania tq frank a letter.. He was invited to
hey ,uke < feat for the purpose. He declined, fay
be- ing, " vcur uosf; »» ia feffioa " On being as-
r fured there would be no impropriety in the tbi
thing, he went to a dtfk and wrote the addrels p t
of a letter as requeued, and theit retired.
! Mr.FiNpI.KY said, that the faA was as hid ■
1 jnft been stated, except that when the gentleman ;
- rif the senate was delired to write the frank,
: he did not objeA to it from an idea of the house o
I being in feCion. For his own part, Mr 1' • laid,
j .he did not foconfidar it, or he fliould not have frc
thought e>f afkiug him to take a feat within the ne
' bar of tbe house. jTI
c Mr. Nicholas could not fay he saw the
> gentleman writing there: The gtntleman from
t S. Carolina might be alTured lie did not mean
e to slate as fa (ft what v.as not so.
Mr. HuTlitt'OK fa d. it was not nnnfual for j th
r the gcntlrinHn from Virginia to deny the iut"*;i- ; ati
tion of milreprefeotatiori. With refpeift so the (b
firuation of the house at the time rhis- affray hap- W(
pened, Mr. K. acknowledged thnt it was not in
e go'd order, thou hit was ill fefboii. Uut the
d gentleman from Virg nia said, no.motion c.rjld , w
? have been made- He wo'dd alio fay, thnt no pt
motion could be made whilfl he was Ipeikirrg,
nor whtlff the house was engaged in any other jb
' business. There was noway of getting oit of no
" Telfion, but by adjouniment ; so that instead of
0 a flSion to l-iv the houlewasin
was certainly a fitffion so I-'iy it was not fi>. He j
. thought with his friend from Madachufetts, it"
e that this was riot to be considered as an offence j
against the gentleman from but as m ,
j an offence against the nation ; and unl;fs the ];].
resolution Ihould be adopted, the charter of,
cur country would be a degraded o e indeed — : -
i- What will on this occasion be the feelings of our i
citizens in general ? What the situation ofthofe j
, _ in foreign countries —what'will be that of our w
representatives abroad ? They would be aflced ; ca
j whether it wa«afaisl,tbaißneofthemerabersofour :Q f
national legifiature spat in the face of another? (
' e They must acknowledge the fail ; but ha hop- i
i- ed they would also have it in their power to j '
is fiy, but tbe iffenjive member immediate- j
a ly exfielM." i p
ie The gentleman from Virginia concluded his ,tv
obferv.-.tiens with a with, that every thing of a th
' ' party nature might be kept out of visor. Mr. jj,
R.faid this, might desirable! but he alio m
thought it was neeefiary to look at the business
« fully. He 'wished gentlemen to fee the thing in j c
m this light s for if members were permitted to j
[ n commit offences with impunity, it would put a ui
)e minority completely iu the power of a majority, at
and buoy lip the latter te a height which would bi
II be very inconvenient to a minority. He, there
,e j fore, thought that though a difference of pnliti-
ie ! sal opinion ha-1 drawn a Ilrong line of diftinift
le j ion betwesn them, to restore the house
0 . 'to its former purity, they ought to unite thsir "
f e | force in expelling the member from Vermont fc
j from his feat. ft
s I Mr. R. having fat down, the «a|l for the quef
to | tion was very loud. t(
I Mr. Sitgreavss said, before the quef- j
'S tion was taken, he wished to make some ob- .
""" fervations upon it. He was one of those
c y who had felt from the firft moment in which a
a Ve was informed of this occurrence, until
™ the grefent time, as a member of that body f
" e " a very firong sense ef humiliation, arising
a ' from the fatt itfelf, committed in the face
he of the house, and from the manner in which
he the enquiry into the bulinef) had been cob-
c > d lifted/ j-|
be On the'evening <rf the day on which the {
he offence had been committed, he had said {
ie» what he never fhottld repent having said,
,n " that he was at that moment prepared to
!e, give the vote which is now called for. He
it ttill believed, that to have expelled the mem-
ft"- berfrom Vermont before the house separat
ed i f d, would have been the propereft step
nd which could have been takem for preserving
,n - the honor of the house, and for expiating
Id, the offence. The major opinion was, how
ivc ever, different. Though the offence was |
If i committed before their eyes, it was agreed
he that a committee should be appointed to ex-
es, amine the evidence. They did so, and re- j
ht ported the result. Yet, after this, it had c
'« r been determined to re-hear the evidence be- J
; fore a committee of the whole ; so that they
'IU had been obliged t* expend the time of the
ed house and the public money, in rt-hearing a '
bulinefs whiqfi had already been fufficiently
to heard, and they are now called to give a
ef- vote upon the resolution originally reported.
The gentlemen who have spoken against
the resolution, have made no apology for the J
■ U r faft itfelf. They have acknowledged the
0 £ aft was indecent, outrageous and improper;
the but they have availed themfelvcs of circum- 1
not stances to get rid of the consequences of this N
»ve confeffton. Though he owned this admif
-Ito fion gave strength to the resolution, yet he |
was sorry it had been admitted, if gentlc
men still opposed the propriety of the refo- *
t ]ic lation; as he hoped when the faft was ad- j
ex- mitted, the committee would not have been
he compelled to listen to any thing in extenua- |
hey tion of an aft so grofi and indecent.
Mr. S. said he would confidyr the argu- J
ments which had been adduced to get rid of 1
b v the consequences which followed an admif- *
mt. fion of the faft.
on, He confefftd he had heard it intinuated,
" u * in tlie course of the examination of the wit
neffts, that the house was not in order when
this offence was committed ; yet he hardly
• n expefted it would have been seriously main
ror- tained. It had been conllantly aiked whe
zed ther the house was not in feiHon, from the
ont Speaker's taking the chair till the vote of ad- '
journment ; fe was impossible to disorganize
* as the House without a vote of adjournment ; 1
l and all the pretexts which have been Hfed to
■ble S et t ' l ' l P 0^110 "* are l 'fe the argu- .
in- ment of the gentleman from Virginia, Jic- (
fe- tiont contrary to faft. It was said the house j
and W as not engaged in any bulinefs. Was this
true? Were not two members of the house '
appoiuted as tellers to count the ballots for '
t | le managers, and were they not counting the 1
rcn . votes ? Wss not the house engaged in bu- '
tas finefs when a member was speaking? purely
did it wis. And was it not also engagrd in bu
t « finefs when the clerk was reading papers? It !
, I 1 '* certainly was; and, at the time when this
affray happened, the house was as much en
in '■> ' n 'he ordinary business of the fitting,
as at (his or any other moment. It was
tlje said the house was not in order because ths J
gto speaker was not in th« chair. The Speaker
I is not in the chair now; nor was he when
f "' lengthy communications were received. But j
it was also said that many members wer# out
the of their feats. But some were in their [Jac- !
;rm- es and could not the house be in fellion, ex- I
1 to cept. all the members were in their places ? j
fay- At this moment, he said, I fee groupes j
I round the fires, and would it be said that j
the lioufe wire not now in order • /t wa« inj.
1 poflible to shew, (hat thtfc indulgence!
which members availed themfelvts of, de.
composed the house. It was not in the na
' tare of things that the bouse could be dif
' solved is flic h a way.
, But it was also itated, that the member
: from Vermont and the member from Con
: ne&icut Were on the outside of the bar.—
This was an endeavour to substitute a fort
= of fiction to get rid of the rules of the house.
, But could it bs supposed, that a ir.embet
' without the bar was less fnbjeft to the tnles,
r than whan ia his feat ? Gentlemen had cre
ated thi 3 diftin&ion ; but no one had said
s that an offence committed without the bar
would not be puuifhable ; and if it wereli
' able to punifhmcot at all, he saw no reason
j why it (hould not be liable to the highest
j punishment.
. Mr. S. was inclined to believe, thattho'
r these nice diftindlions were urged, they were
\ not mnch relied upon ; because though gen
tleme.i used them, they had recourse to o
e I thers; a'id if these had been well founded,
i they woulJ have been fufiScieot.
* | It 1 was said} that the member from Ver
-8 mont could not have put up with an insult
e . like that offered by the member from Con
s ne&icut, and that the impoflibility of pntt
~ ! ing up with it was a fufficient extenuation of
e ; his crime. He had all along thought that
r whenever any thing was said of the provo.
d ; cation which produced the aft complained
r i of, they wandered from the proper path.
• j He believed no anterior ciiVmtiftance had a
' ! ny thing to do with the judgment which:, the
.. | House ought to pass upon this offence.—
; Provocation might make forme difference be
lt j.twixt the parties themselves, but it had no
a thing to do with the bufistfs as it n>fpe&ed
r that house. If provocation was to be ad
? mitted, in extenuation of a crime, no of
n fence could be committed that waivM not
0 | find an apology. If a man's pafiions, and
1 | ungovernable iiature, were to be an extcnu
atiori, crimes of the blacked nature wouid
( ! be thus apologized for. But it was agreed
■' in every society, from the convivial meeting
t '" to the Legiflatnre, that some rules were
)e neceSary for their government, and when
j r these rules were once fixed, it was necessary
at for the preservation of order, that they
should be observed. If the gentleman from
Vermont conceived hirmfelf injured,he ought
- to have taken another time for resenting It.
If a number o£ gentlemen meet together,
j!" and an insult be given which is patt be-
I rng tolerated, and which calls lor fatisfaftio*
.j and atonement, will any one fay that the
I proper way of obtaining these, would be to
interrupt the harmony of the company in
which the individuals are assembled? Do
not those who call themselves gentlemen,
suppress their indignation, and seek other
means of obtaining fatisfaftion, means which
shall not afFeft the peace and order of foei'e
ty? Is it net one of the efTential rnles of
j the laws of our country, that no man shall
be permitted, by giving way to his own
private passions, to disturb the or<jer of so
ciety? And the fame rule ought certainly
to be observed in that house more efpeeially.
But will gentlemen fay it was impofiible
"P fee the gentleman from Vermont to post
pone an atonement for the offence which he
'k supposed was committed against hi*i? will
" gentlemen ferioufiy fay this, when the mem*
, ber from Conneftieut, who received a much
greater insult, was able to preserve the ref
peft due from an individual to the whole
Repvefentativds of the people of the United"
States; could, any man suppose that the
' feelings of the gentleman from Connecticut
were less sensible than the feelings of the
gentleman from Vermont? would any pne
call in question his spirit or ability? Do
not all who khow him, know that his cos
j rage, strength and spirit, enabled him to
take instantaneous revenge, had not bis res-
peft for the house prevented him from doing
he so L
But, if they were to' enquire into this
' provocation, the result would be as unfa
voorable.astheprineiple itCelf. Ifan enquiry
jj- were inflitutedat ail, it must be carried to
its fouree; and it would be found the mem
j ber from Vermoat was the aggrefior. It
would be found that he was in the habit of
j provoking insult. It was in proof that,h*
en had called in qneftion the integrity of ihe
(a members from Connefticut. The whble
fubjeft of his conversation with the Speaker,
was one uninterrupted series of refleftions,
the most scandalous and nntrue, upon the
whole delegation from Comreftieut; and the
person who was guilty of the firft provoea-
tion was guilty of the whole. When gen,
j ' tlemen admit that the provocation which
eH the gentleman from Vermont received, as
it some extenuation o'f his fault, they must al
|Q so admit the fame for the provocation reeei
ved by the gentleman from Conse&icut; so
that when gentlemen find the firft and lad
offence committed by the meifibcr from
Vermont, an inference it drawn which is ir
t refiftable.
For S»imfelf, he thought the indecorum
r which the gentleman frsim Vermont had
been gailty of towards the representatives of
Connefticut, would, of itfrlf, have juftiiied
s his expulsion from the houft. He confid.
ered the fpittiiig in the member's face as a
f 0 personal oflence; butthc others were wounds
l ie upon the better part, the moral spirit of
ju _ those gentlemen; so that the firft offence
J was the most aggravated of the two.
H| It was impossible, f.ir, S. said, to state
j t a cafe more clear than that the resolution
j 3 before the committee ought to be adopted
en ® ut was thi.'i all ?It was not. It was neceflif
lrT ry to call the attention of the comm'ttec, t®
the Itatement made by the chairman, of the
ths K r °ff'y indecent words mad* use of by the
_ tr 1 member from Vermont, in the close of hi*
]fn defence ycfterday. When the member \va«
sut ' la y in K u "^ er the reproach of the house, for
nt violating the rules of decorum, for violating
ac . i the refpe£l which he'owed to the houfe—
ex- ' w^en on s trial for this very faft, he in
,g j J traduced au indecency of nxpreffion which.
p tJ | cannot be overlooked, as if he bid defiance
hat Ito the house, and wen; determined to addoffence to offence. This alone, as well ax
his former aft, was fiifficient to havciuitifi- <if.
Ed an immediate expulsion. He ■ believed a fta
body properly tenacious of its own honours me
would have come to a vote of this kind ;hnt the
the longer the enquiry was prolonged, the ela
more they invited his outrages. He wiihed,
therefore, to add this latter offence to the cla
former, in order to fh<-w the full ground of pel
the member's expulsion, since this latter tai
offence was of too gross a nature to be 101 l hir
fight of. He moved to add the following wa
woWs to the resolution," and for a gross
indecency of language in h<: defence before this mi
.house." ' c °
This offence, Mr. S. said, did not pass fid
outside the bar, or whilst votes were coun- to
ting, nor was it provoked. If there were
gentlemen in the house, therefore, who wi(h- be
ed this man still to remain amongst them, pi
let them take the responsibility upon them- be
ftlves. k
There was one circumstance more which
had not been noticed, which was the impro
priety of depriving the member of his feat el
and his diftrift of a Representative. It would n<
be more honourable to the diftritt, as men
and as citizens, to believe they would re- r «
joice in (hewing theirfenfe of the mifcondud
"of their ratrbtr, by returning another. In
sfting thus, they Ihould be giving thediftrift tl
an opportunity of wiping away the stain b
which in some degree attached to them for tl
an 1 offence dose by .their representative. «
When he was sent back to his conftitnents, f'
they would difpofeofhim a3 they thought
proper ; if they approve his condudV, they 1
will fend him again; if not, they williend w
member in his place, less likely to
contaminate the body to which he is sent. u
Some objections were offerer} to this y
amendment by Messrs. R. Williams and (<
Mi- Gallatin. They said, if the expref- r
Cons complained of were considered as a F
contempt of court, they ought to have been 1
punilhed immediately as fucb ; but if they
were bro't forward as part of the char ge "
against the member from Vermont, he ought 0
be heard in bis behalf, as on the former
charge.
Aflei the amendment had been support- 1
ed by Messrs. Sewall, Brooks and Harper,
Mr.'Coit trusted, when he declared it to v
he his intention to vote against this amend
ment, he (hould not be thought to be an ad-
Tocate of Mr. Lyon, or «f his iniecent
language. 111 the course of his defence,
he hid made use of seVeral expressions high
ly improper to be uftd by a member of that
house ; but they marked the charafter of
the man. He wa6 unwilling, however, to
hnld of these circumstances against
him, but would give them all the weight
they deserved. He presumed the particu
lar exprefiion alluded to fell from the mem
ber inadvertently, and was not intended to
offend the decorum and order of the house.
He. therefore, thought, notwithstanding
the opinion which he had of the man, that
it wonld be more confident with th • e ndor
»i»d dignity of the house, not to notice it.
Mr. Dayton (the fpjpker) said, that in
his opinion, the gentleman just fat down,
had said more in defence of themember from
Vermont, than he had himfelf uttered, or
than had been said for him by the gentle
men from N. Carolina and Virginia. He,
had given fan&ion to the plea of the mem
ber from Vcrmort—who said that he did not
know he was violating the rules of the house
—he did it thrtugh inadvertence ! Was this
a plea to be made for this man ? Before,
said he, we knew what we had to expeft,
and that it was necessary to walk with dirks
or daggers for our defence against him ; now
we know, that when he rises to speak, the
ears of all must be flopped, or offended,
with his gross indeeencies. He hoped,
therefore, that the gentleman froth, Connec
ticut would allow this charge to be added
to the resolution. Ne.ither the gentleman
from N. Carolina nor the gentleman from
Virginia attempted to defend his conduft.
Already it may have been noticed (be at
least had noticed it) that the chairs in the
line in which the member from Vermont fits,
have, in a great meafnre, been deserted.
He hoped, therefore, the committee would
agree in bringing forward this last indecen
cy, and join it to the other charge, as it
was fiich as would not be allowed in any
grog-shop in the country.
Mr, Coit said he (hould withdraw his op
. yofition to the proposed amendment, so foen
as he was convinced he was wrong ; sooner
h« must not be expefted to do it. There
was a great difference betwixt words and
a&ions. Every man's experience must tell
him that words sometimes drop inadvertent
ly. This might have been the cafe with the
member from Vermont, and he still thought
it would be better to pass over thi3 ex
prcffibn.
Mr. Kittera said the expression could not
be uttered inadvertently, as the member read
hit defence.
Mr. S. Smith dt'4 not believe that the tx
jpreflfion alluded to was read. What the
gentleman read, was delivered in a tone of
voice whieh every one could hear ; but
what he said as he fat down, was uttered io
a lower tone of voice, and he did not hear
it. He had read his speech that morning
in the papers, in which there was no such
expression —He wiihed to repeat to the gen
tleman fromS. Carolina (Mr. Rutledge)
■who had given him a PhiUippu, that his rea
son for wishing to take a vote upon this
question without debate, was no other than
to spare a farther cxpenc# of time up
on a business, which he thought, had alrna
dy oecupied too much.
After a few other observations, the ques
tion was put on the amendment and carried
48 to 43.
(Debate to be continued.)
MONDAY FEBRUARY 12.
Mr. Otis presented a petition from the
wanufa&urers 01 blue sugar paper, in Mas
sachusetts, praying that an additional duty
m3y be laid on the importation of this fpe
ciei of paper.—-Referred to the committee
of commerce tnd manufa&ures#
Mr. Van CortlaoJt pjefented the pjtir.'on
nfjanics Brown, of V/eft Chester, in the lot
(late of New-York, praying for the pay- mj
nent of certain supplies fnrmfhed during
the war—Referred to the committee of to
claims. in
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of tit:
claims made an unfavourable report on the
petition of John Madeirai, who prayed cer- fei
tain money which he ftatcd to be due to he
him as deputy-quarter-maftcr, during the • PI
war. » . ed
The hoafe againrefolved itfelf intoa com- J
mittee of the whe'e on the report of the | te
committee of privileges ; when, after con- to
(iderable difcufiion, Mr. R. Williams moved nc
to atfiend the resolution reported, by ftri- ta
king out tlft words "be for this disorderly th
behaviour expelled," and insert in theii A
place, "is highlycenfurable, and that he th
be reprimanded by the Speaker, in the pre
sence of this house." aj
Thii amendment called forth a number
of observations ; the queftioft was, how
ever, at length takea upon it, and it was m
negatived 52 to '44. t}
The question was then taken upon the in
resolution as reported for the expulsion of ra
Mr* Lyon, which wa3agreed to 51 to 43. vi
The committee then rose, end reported ai
the amendment to the resolution which had
been agreed to (which was what related to tl
the fecend offence of Mr. Lyon) together vv
with the evidence which had been taken be- d
fore it.
The house took up the report, and the tl
question being put upon the amendment, it p
was agreed to 49 to 46. si
The question was then about to be pu» a
upon the resolution as amended, and the f
yeas and nays taken (which had been called
for and agreed to) when Mr. R. Williams 0
renewed his amendment, for confining the c
punirtiment of Mr. Lyon to a reprimand by
the Speaker in the presence of the lioufe. t
The jirst upon this quefiion were the nats c
upon the final quefiion ; and vice versa, with- c
cut an individortl variation.
The amendment of Mr. Williams being i
negatived, the quellion then returned upon 1
the resolution for a t expulsion.
Upon which queftifMi, the ayes and says
were as follows 1
AYES.
Mess. Baer Hofmer
Bartlett Imlay
Bayard SLittera
Brookes Lyman
Bullock Machir
Champlm Matthews
Chapman Morgan
Cochran Morris
Coit Otis
Craik I. Parker
Dana I- Parker
Davie Reed
Dennis Rutledgc
Dent Schureman
Evans Sewall
A. Foster Shepard
D. Foster Sinnickfon
J,' Freeman Sitgreaves
Glenn N. Smith
| Goodrich Sprague
Gordon Thatcher
Grove Thomas
Harper Thompfori
Hartley Tillinghaft
Hindmin Van Alen
Holmes Wadfworth.—s2
; NATS.
' Majf. Mess. Freeman Virg. Harrifon
Skinner Jones
' Varnum New
' N.T. Elmendorf Nicholas
Havens A. Trigg
Livingfton J- Trigg
1' Van Cortlandt Venable
Penn. Bard A.C. Blount
t Findley Biyan
nt Gallatin Gillefple '
Gregg Locke
Hanna Macon
I* M'Clenachan M'Dowell
' Mar, S. Smith Stanford
I' Virg. Brent S. C. Bertton
Cabell W. Smith
T. Claiborne Sumpter
Clay Getr. Baldwin
' Clopton Milledge
Dawfon Ken. Fowlor
Gile* T;nn. W. Claiborne
The Speaker then declared the yeas to
[ be 52, and the nays 44 ; and as the eonfli
tution required two thirds of the members
lf j prrfent to carry a resolution like the pre-
H sent, it was.not agreed to.
t Just before the yeas and nays were taken,
a message in writing was received from the
Prefident of the United States ; but from
the lateness of the hour (it being half past
foust o'clock) it was not read.
Adjourned.
' d PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE,
x
be Houss tf Representatives.
of
ut February 7.
,' q Mr. Preston prefeated fereral petitions
ar from the citizens of the County of Delaware
praying that a law may be passed making the
c h poor of that county a county chaTge, and
B _ authcrifiag the ereftion of a haufe for the
e ) employment and support of the poor, which
:a - were read and referred,
u'l Mr. Hemphill presented a petition from
an 1 number of the citizens of the Statt, pray
p. ing that the law against horse stealing may
■ a . be° rendered more efficient, >s this crime has
encreafed to an alarming extent ; which
e f. was read and referred.
tc J Mr. Bonnett reported a bill authon'fing
the governor to appoint commiflaries to run
the line between the counties of Bedford
and Huntington, which was read and made
the order of the day for
he Mr. W. Maclay read a bill in his place
as. for limiting the time upon which judgments
ify j (hall contirue alien upon real eftafes and
pe- '■ suits may be brought against public officers
tee and their sureties, which was presented and
• naade the order of the day.
The bill for raifin;r a {iiiu of menly by
lottery for fiflifhing Lower Dublin Acaie- ci
my was read a third time and pafTed. hi
The bill to authorize Archibald M'Guire hi
to ereft a wing dam on river
in Wcftraorehnd county was'read a third el
time and pafTed. a '
The bill to pro»ide for the recording the (u
several roads which have been and which tl
hereafter may be laid out in the 1 county ot e
Philadelphia was read a third time and palf
ed.
The house resolved itfelf Into 1 conimit
tee of the whole on the supplement to the
to prevent the exportat ion of hread and flour
not merchantable and for repealing at a cer
tain time all she laws heretofore made for
that purpose, Mr. Piefton in the ch-iir.—
After considerable debate the fir It fettion of
tbc bill w?s negatived.
The committee rase and had leave to fit c
again, and the house adjourned. a
February 8. v
Mr. Evans presented a petition from a j
number of the citizens of Huntingdon coun- {
ty, praying that the Legiflaturc may take t
into confederation the propriety of exone
rating them from the payment of taxes le- 2
vied during the late war, which was read j
and referred. 1
Mr. Hempbill reported a bill to confirm j
the road from Fox's tavern to WcH-Cheiler, (
which was read and made the order »f the
day for this day fe'nnight.
Mn.Hannum reported a bill to reft in .
the heirs of William Rankin deceased, such
parts of his forfeited estate as have not been
fold by the Commonwealth, which was read
and made the order of the day for this day
fe'nnight.
Mr. Hoge reported in favor of an elefti
on diftri£l at Cannonfburgh iu Washington
county.
Mr. W. Maclay reported again ft the pe
tition of a number of the citizens of Lan
cafttr county, praying leave to ere£t fifh
dams.
The amendment by the Senate to the bill
to provide for paying the expences of cer
tain trafts of land granted to Cornplanter,
The hoyfe again resolved itfelf into com
mittee of the whole 011 the Bill fupplcmen
tary to the aft to prevent the exportation of
bread and flour not merchantable Jtc. Mr.
Preston in the chair, which bill was agreed
to with sundry amendments.
The house resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the bill for granting
a sum of money to the Academy at New.
town in Bucks county, for the purpose of
ereflting a ich 00l house Mr: Preston in the
chair, which bill waiagreed to.
The bill for altering certain ele&ion dif
trifts in the county of Berks was read a se
cond time and agreed to.
The bill to declare Pine creek in the j
county of Lycoming a public highway was
read a second time and agreed to.
The bill for altering ah ele&ion diftrift in
the county of Datiphiu was read a fecoad
time and agreed to.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole on a bill to authorise the raising
500 dollars by lottery for a fchoal in New
Hanover Township, Montgomery county,
Dr. Leib in the chair, which bill was agreed
to. • Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 13.
MELANCHOLY.
Halifax, January 11.
Extrafl of a letter from Wilmot, dated the ad
inft. 101 gentleman in this town.
l( Your fliends, Patrick M'-Mafter and
Mr. William Harrij, have lately perilhed by
fhipweck in this neighbourhood. On the Fri
day following Christmas, a report was brrught
ef a wreck and some dead boJie» being found on
the shore of the Bay of Fundy, near to thefet
tlement of Dr. Halliburton's land ; on which,
Meflpi. Wobdberry, Moreton, and some others
erofTedover the North Mountiin, to the bay
Ibore, where they saw the malts and part of the
hull of i small schooner, n#ar the bank—and at
some conlidcrable diflance three mutilated dead
bodies, which had been hauled up and laid up
on the land. One of these unhappy perfoni
proves to be Mr. Patrick M'Mafter
" The bodies of the other two persons found
near Mr. M'Mader, are unknown. Fearing
some of the peeple near the settlement might
hive been too attentive in picking up the boo
to ty, and remif3 in other things, oecafioned Mr.
Moreton, with a large company of young men,
t« search the b>y shore ai*d the adjacent woods ;
" in doing which, they yeftcrdar found in the
e " woods, at the diflance of many miiles from the
wreck, and at some distance from each other, 3
it, bodies frozen to death —one of wiiich, by his
ie pecket-book proves to be Mr. William Harris ;
the ofi-.ers unknown,
n "After the usual formalities the bodies of
' these p»or lufferers will be brought to this set
tlement and decently interred. Their paper.,
&c. will be kept in fafety, till persons properly
authorised appear to claim them."
?.
SALEM, (Mass.) Februaay 6.
ANOTHER FIRE !
About 4 o'clock yesterday morning the
inhabitaats of this town were alarmed by the
n» cry of fire. It was from Mr. Gray's Chip
rc the Aurora, lying in the harbour, partly
loaded for a foreign voyage. When firft
d discovered, Ihe was so completely involved
in flames, that neither the owner, or scarce
: h any other person, conceived there was any
chance for saving her. However, some
m boat-loads of men, of extraordinary powers
y. of exertion, went off direftly with the fuc
iv tion engine, which is under the direftioa
a, of Mr. Sweetfer, got under the stern of the
:h vessel, and poured a deluge into the cabin
(where the fire began) and soon darkened
ig its fory. They were immediately seconded
Jn by other* of their fellow-citizens; and their
►d united efforts fiaally restored to Mr. Gray a
de ship and cargo worth ten thousand pound*
which he had conldered as inevitable loft,
ce with a comparatively trifling damage. A
its large quantity of rum was in the hold, but
nd so well secured that happily \he fire Jid
;rs not touch it; but two puncheons which
nd were left between decks caught, and assisted
in spreading the Qacies ovar the ship.
An u/ibappy man, by the name of,.Dun
c:\n, had the care of the vcfTel that night, and
hi# canille no doubt occasioned the fire. He
Inmftlf was burnt to death in the cabin.
A number of the fame getitLnperi, whose
exertions were so couf i wous, and ft> cffeGn
al in the late fire at the school-house, were
foicmoft in faring this vi-ITel ; and they and
their companions defcrve the thanks of the r
:ello<\ -cit zens.
%ijt <^asette*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRVAKT 13. j
- -iiMhii '
At a meeting of a nuraber of the citizens 1
of Philadelphia, the Diftridt of Southwark,
and the Northern Liberties, at Mr. Dun
woody's tavern, for the purpose of nomina
ting a Candidate to be supported at-the ca
fuing Ele&ion, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted :
Resolved, That being fully imprefiej with •
a sense of the talents and integrity of Ben
jamin R: Morgan, his services iu public
life, and his attachment to the laws and con
stitution of his country, the meeting do re
commend him to their fellow-citizens as a
proper person to be ele&cd a Senator for
this diftrift, and will individually give him
all the support in their power.
Joseph Cowhsthwait,
Chairman.
Wm. Clifton, J®n.
Feb. 12. St en tarj.
T he firft coup d'rjfai of the new order of
Knighthood, cannot fail. to gratify those who
have believed with Burke, that the Age of Chi
valry was gone : The principle of f at'ermty,
which exffttd the prime bulwark of Chivalry,
till certain modern quacks drove it out of vogue,
by il Turpi up it as a cover for rascality, bound
every Knight by the (once) forcible ties of firm
er to preserve, protect and defend the interests
of the order, and the person ofTlis aflociate, at
, all hazards and perils. Such'was Chivalry in
its primitive ilate, when tyrant order had not
(hackled man, but free, to foll»w inclinatitn,
~r was the mode- How much will the rising gene
ration owe t» Sir A G ,and Sir J
>1 , for reviving even the memory of th»fe
1 blelTld time* 1 The Age of Chivalry is not gone :
From the old world, indeed, it may have taken
. its departure, and left her degenerate sons to be
come the prey of wolves, tigers, or fanfcul
lottes —But we have enrapturing evidence that
it still lingers here, and that here it (till has va
* taries, who " on, by the fptir of valour, goad
e ed," can " flop the wheels of government,"
vilify its adminiflratort, and advance with
f. firmnefs to rescue a brother from condign pun
t. fhment, amidst the uiflted execrations of all pu
ny lovers of decency and dignity. The Age of
Chivalry is not gone : Loßg five the Knights
1C of the Wooden Sword I
as __
The thirst ef the Boftonians for theatrical ea
rn tertainments, appears to be fairly burnt out.
id
If the extraordinary support experienced by
ee the /pitting animal, who lately made an exhibi
tion of his powers, (hould be preportionably
, backed by the democrats out of doors,the refem-
W blance of the propensities of those mifchievcus
y> animals to thecaf tribe, will be rendered nearly
=d complete. If they believe in transmigration,
the acquisition of eight additional lives must af
ford a very eonfolatory profpedl—as the day of
- retribution for " the deeds done in the flefli" is
thus indefiflitply prolonged.
Stranpe change if patr ot democrats
Strip'd of their rnort.il coil,
Should quick travifmigrate into cats,
And thus their en'mies foil :
" Ocyus ant ferius," comes the hoar,
3C ] As wifiiom's page will tell,
When cur ft imfojiure ftripp'd ef pow'r
I'hes to her nati.ve hell,
j . But le, to baulk the promis'd hope,
r j_ Whieh fuff'ring patiecce dreU,
j,, Sir Democrat by an arch ftr ike
Rn Takes on the form or Be ill.
h, The cloven foot of party was never more fully
rs expofeJ than by the vote which negatived the
, v resolution foi the expulGoo of the member from
Verment.
at Look at the names—The motions of a fugil
l(j man were never more ohfequioufiy followed by
p. a troop of soldiers, than the diflum of party on
[IS this occalion —Lojk at the names !
d mr. Fenho,
ig There nevtr »u, I believe,greater anxiety in the
Ist people to fee the yeas and uay» on any question
0- decifed by eongrefs, than that of yellerday, on
r. the aburainable «ondu£t of Matthew Lyon A»
f, many of your readers do not know whieh States
the different members represent, >»u will much
le oblige several of us by affucing the name s>f tha
le Stats opposite that of the member, in publifbiug
the yea* and says. A Country Svijiriitr.
; Germantown, Fek. 13.
For the Gazette of the United Stater.
of
t- The Habitual Bottle.
'' MR. FEN NO,
y I called a few days pad, after an absence
of fix years, to visit an old acquaintance, whose
talents are at once an ornawent and an honor
to the community; the pride, the l>oa!l,
and the support of his friends—and I pro
ie I phecy may long continue so, if the habitual
,p battle is banilhed from the number of the
] y Utter, and ranked a3 it'ought to be, amoag
•ft his m«ft deadly enemies. Infteadof the man
■d ly step, the upright deportment, and tha
cc jrm hand of friendfhip, I mark'd at altcr
,y ed gait, a faultering voice, and received a
le trembFtng hand.
rs I was struck with horror at the change,
q. yet in these things it was not less visible, or
)B less mortifying, than in the change of fub
i,, ' jests which were chosen for my entertain
in raent.
■J In place of information, amusement, and
rd what «f either had ever before been marked
:ir : with the strong lines of genius-, were allufi
a' o«»> puerile, undignified and indecent—and
d, ; melancholy reverse, the bottle supplied the
ft,; de6cienty.
A I He had not returned late from the eonvi
ut : vial board, nor had he accidentally over-ftep
iid ed the line of tempetance m the luxury »f a
ch cheerful glass with a few friends at home ;
cd but, with <ach transient (lunger or acquain
■ tance, or fwr want of even that apology,
had nearly finilVed, end a/ear, the
and difqualifying foiitn.
Curjcd bottle, that enftel.les, lays pu.
trair, add i:i ruins, the grealeji minds, t\->
pofei to view their weakneflVs and vices;
g tcs cause el triumph to their cnenfies,
and of lasting sorrow aiid regret to tin. if
fiends : tliat at the fame tirrie anticipate- f
and sullies the evening of an ufeful, and c;l *
honorable day.
Hail! ti> the cheerful, companionable,
healthful, temperate glass. But curie on
the enervating, dtllruCt ive, babilual bottle.
Intemperance has so long been the tbeme
of the moralist, that perhaps much force
cannot be added to the arguments heretofore
produced againit it : in all its stages, in all
its varied forms it is odious, difgulting, and
deftruftive. I mean only here to point at
its eflefts, on such is become its votaries,
and Jits vi&iras, from long habits of indul*
gence, which daily, and a'moft impercepti
bly to thtrmfelves, but not with left certain
ty on that account are dfawn into its inex«
tricable vortex.
To trace the pmgrefs and decline of a
great mind j to arrest its progress to decay
and ruin j to reflore it to its native ftreagtli
and dignity, is the objeft of this little eflay.
If volumes were deroted to the fame end>
time would at least Le nobly lojl.
MENTOR.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
PbiladclpUa, Feb. 3. 1798.
Six Per Cent. i6fi
Direr per C>nt. 1 q'"j
Deferred 6 per Cent. tiTo
BANK United Ststet, 20
— I'eonfylvania, 23 per eent.
—— North America, 50 per cent.
InfuranceCo Hennfylvania, ao
—N. A. lharet 41 dividend off.
The managers of the City Danc
ing Assembly give notice that the anniversary Ball
to eon»memuratr the hiith of George Washing
ton, will be held at Mr Rickets't Circus, the iai
iuftant. l'cb. 12. jtajd
I Arrived at New-Tori.
Brig Minifon, Peekle, Hambtirg, 127 days.
Three Brothers, Lillon, New-Bedford
6 days.
—1 ■
NE W -THEATRE. *
13th February, 1795.
£3* The Public are rei^e&fully
acquainted, that on account of the \ reparation!
for OSCAR and A,, not beiwg compler
ed, tie Performances advertised for to-moirew y
are unavoidably postponed until
THURSDAY EVENING,
FEBRUARY 15,
When will be presented the TRAGEDY of
The GAMESTER.
Beverly, mr Fennel!—Stukely, mr Warren—
Lewfon, mr Wignell—Jarvia, mr Morris—Batei,
mr Taylor—Dawfon, mrWarrell, jun—Waiter,
mr Hunter.
Mrs Beverly, air» Merry (being her fir (I appear
ance in that character) —Charlotte, nn trancis-
Lucy, mrt Do&or.
To which will be added (for the firfl time) * Grand
Heroic Pantomime Ballet and Speftacle, taken
from OJfun, called
OSCAR. AND MALVINA.
[Comppfed by M». Byrne—and performed nudcf
: his airc&ion at the Theatre, Covent Garden,
npwards of two hundred nights.
The new Music eoropofed—and the ancient Scots
Music ai:d adapted by Mr. Shield. Thfi
Overture hy Mr. Reeves.
Oscar, (tbe defendant of Fingal) mr Byrne—
Carroi, (the Scottifti Chieftain) mr Hardinge—•
Fingal, mr Xaylor—Morven, mr Marfball—Dra*
co, mr Warrcll, jun—-Scotch Pedlar, (with th«
Song, 1 1 am a jolly gay Pedlar') mr Francis--
Scmch Lad, mr Fox.
Scotch Laffie,mifs Milbourne— Malvina (daugh
ter to Tofcar) rars Byrne.
Principal Bard, mr Darlejr. „
Bards—Merit's. Fox, Warrcll, T.Warrell, Hnn
tcr, BlilTctt, Matthew, Sic.—mr* Warrell, mist
MiiJjourne, mrs Stu art, mrs Hunter, mad, Har
wood, &c.
The Scenery, partpainted by Mr. Milbourne, and
part by Me fir*. Holland and Stuart. .
Rtprijenting—rThe Hall of Fingal, with a
Banquet preparatory to the Nuptials of Oscar
and Malvina
The Mountain of Beia Lomond, with the
Military Proccffiou of Carrol to the Hall of
Fingal.
A view of the Sea and Rock from which
Oscar efcapei by leaping from a high precipice
into the arms of his Soldiers.
The Bridge, with the Camp of Carrol.
The death of Carrol by the hands of Mal
vina—his defernt into the Sea—and the confla
gration of the Camp of Carrol. < f
On Friday, The Hfgrriart,
For Bremen,
fflfefflti'i. ' Dani/o Brigantim
ejSg&y JO HA K N A y
J°^ n Andrew Thieflcn, XAaJltr.
I?XPECT£D to fail on the 18th in ft ant. For
only, apply to the captain on board,
at Hamilton's wkart", cr to
EDWARD DUNANT,
- No. 149, S«uth Front-tlreet,
Who rcquefts all those having accounts againfl
faidveflel, to exhibit the f-me for payment, pre
vious to the 18th tuft, a? no demands will be paid
after departure from her.ee.
Hi but fiU on land\ tf tbt Carga tj J,'aid
Malaga,
So kegs frefh Raisins
116 jars 1 r Jnc blo«m dif.tl>
ICS ooxetj f
90 boxes Mufcate. ditto
.10 ktgi Figs
11 1 fnperior Catalolia \Tin«
Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhdi.qr, cafta
And a few qr. calka fine old Colemena Wine.
fck?iiary 13. *s l
TO BE SOLD,
At No. 36, North Eighth street,
The time of anindented Black Girl.
SHE hasabout eight or ten years to f rve—wafti
eaand iron* well, and is to be difpoied of for want
of employment.
F. b iy S
Flax Seed lor sale.
App'y to
GEO. DOBSON,
' No. 15, South Third-flr««t.
, Jsnuary ij SPublic S'vle cf Real Eflatcs.
On THURSDAY Evening, th S >sth of
February next, will be enpoUd to Public tale, (w
at the Merchants' Coffce-houfc in Second-ftneet,
at 6 o'clock in tW evening, the following f I
ESTATES. £
No. I. A two florj brick Houie, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a lot »o feet front and
jog scot deep ; ali», a vacant Lot of 40 feet lquare,
with the privilege of an alley te go thereto. This
interaft has lately been let for »oo dollars per an
nam, and is situated in Cfiriftian-rtr«t, between «
Front and Second ftretts, the second house from r
Mr. Caleb Afti's. _
No 2. A three story brick House, fijuate at
the Bortheaft corner of Chefnut (Ireets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 feet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly relit of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of f
the b«a Hands for the sale of dry goods in this city. £
No. 3. A handsome well finilhed three story fi o
brilk House, 10 feet front and 109 feet deep, fail- fcr
ate in Filtb-ftreet, between Market and Arch- in :
streets, No. Thisi oufe is built and fimflied it
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with Tl
double cellars under the whole. Thai eis a cittern »p
o r rai-i water in the yard ; and the house is at pre- ho
fort let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes. a
No. 4. A three story brick House, Ctuate ia in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third street, thi
being so feet front and 130 feet deep, at present r \i
occupied by Robert Kenny. of
No 5. A three ftery brick House, on the bank in
Ode of Front-flreet, No. 171 North, going thro' a d
to Water-#r«t, where it it five story. It is 10 t ii
feet front and 48 feet de*p, in complete r«pair, pc
and ii rented for 600 dollars per annum. la
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter calh,
•r.e quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months, St
sod one quarter in 12 months. R
Philadelphia, h>n 12, 1798- 3awtljF
Salifisury Eftatei F
THE Subscriber, proposing to eontrafl hii bufi- -
ness, offers this Estate for fait, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ol stones ; also > good Forge, ail
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. Ibe Air Furnaces
were lately built lor the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres <j
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other t'
very fine arable Land, producing the.best and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfiftured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not ewe of flxty-nine g«i>» a
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored i.
into 3a pounders, have fail*d on proving. The fnu- 1
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of I
tnanufaflure, and a place of arms lying in the ftatc I
of Conneaicut, and only 30 miles from fcveral land . "
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rofult from a plenty of water Witling
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and whirh may be converted into a variety of other t
ufeful purpofts. The purchafcr tan beaccommodat- t
ed vvnh all the stock a.,d utcnfils, and have pofTcOion (
on or bcloie the firft of June next, and preparation (
may be made in them, an time for going into Blafl im
mediately theresfcer,. for every patt will be delivered
in good order, with some coai, Ore, &c. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthuny, in Philadel
phia, Bavid Brooks, Eiq. one of the Representatives
in Coogrefs tor thisStaic ; Mr, D.ivid Wateiman, on
the premises, or totbe proptietor in New-York. ,
WILLIAM NEILiON'.
Pee. 1. -
Recently Published,
And just imported from England, by William
Gklipiths, No. 177, SouthSeeond street, and
may be had of Morg n J Rures,
ALiicap and valuable work, in two closely
priii & volumes .in Bvo. (price-3 dollars)
111 uft rat ions of Prophecy :
In which arc elucidated many prcd'.dlious, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gslift . and book o! Revelation ; which are tho't
to foretell among oth«.r great events, a revolution
in France avora le to the iatercfts of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal powtraudof ecclea
aftiral tyranny, the downfall of ■"ivil despotism,
and thelubfeqitent melioration ps the state of tht
world : together with
A large collection of Extracts,
tnterfperfed through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hem y More, Bengelius,
D». John Owen, Dau^mz,
Dr. CrefirnAr, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, 1 owman,
Brenius, Eiihop Newton, and
Biihop Chandler. Biffiop Ilurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illullrations of ufophecy ;
it contains a considerable number of faiis or ob
fcrvations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authenticity, uses, and ebfeurity of the apo
calypse, and thegenuinenefs of the Hebrew pro
phets; on the rapid corruption of christianity in
the fourtHxentury ; on the difperlion andrellora
»ion of the Jews," the hiflory of the falfe Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the rsafons
in support of the conj-Sure that tht Afghans are
the csfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
rtfiftar.ee t» opprefiion; on the n-ruptions 0/ th-»
■orthern nation?, and the caufesof the decline and
fall of the Roman empire ; on the cuftoais of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the eonquefts of those nations, and those ot the
Turks s on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
tht pad history and present state of Egypt; on
the chara&er andcondmSl of Conftantine, Jultini
n, Clovts, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the faults of the de
cline of literature ; on tho rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the caafes of its fall; on the in
eonfiftenciet in- the political characters of bishops
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
effeifts which ehriilianity has produced in.favor o!
learning and civil liberty, ani its tendency to pro
mote theeftablifhm-nt of equal governments.
Independent of the Urge proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
interested in thefubjeift will, it isprefumed, wish
to peruse or confultthem, because the eitra&s in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
creater number of writers on the prophecies (a*,
kaft if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than are eafilj acceflible to any «ne indivi
dual tvenin Europe, or are probibly to be found
in any one library in the world. They are (ur
nifhe.l with indexes, and a copious table of con
tent... J«n- *»—Jawiw
Imported inthefhipMANCHtsTEß,
Binjamin Shewill, Matter,
from Bourdcaux, and for sale by the fttbfcriber,
No. 11. Walnut Stieet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Iri/h markjt claret in cafe« ( Entitled to
tiedocwine, in • do. f" Drawback.
aßtemc, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SAL*.
Skerry Wine in pipetand quart* cafl<»
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
a 000 buffers Liverpool fait.
Aug. »4- tutSistf.
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—-from I.en Jon,
f Where he ha« studied fevcr.il years under 0110 of. A
the most eminent mafttrs in that feitnee)
INFORMS hit friends, that he hat re-commene
oi his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Sii O
Dollars per mouth, for attendance thee-: tiiiK's a Q,
week. Likewise, all kind# of Orn ame-.ital Paint j
ing, fruit, low«), &c. taught on the terms.
W. H. flatters himftlf his terms will he pnrticu
larly advantageous to those that omploy him, as
he makes n» additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A Hne dire&ed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gazette, will be immediately attended t«.
January f. 5 1W
To Be Sold, t
AGREEABLY to the lift will and tefhntent of CO!
William K*ysham, debated, and posTs- a p
fion gi?cn immodifctely, a valuable property in Arch th
street, between Third ajid Fourth ftreeti, consist- j e ,
ing of the house, No. 107., with the lot on whidi p,
it is ere<sfced, a ftablf, and other improvements.— qu
The houfc is 10 feet front, and contains ten good rfJ
apartments. The lot of the fame breadth as the en
houfc and 109 feet ieep, with a well of water and es
a very capacious walltd #iftern, bofti with pumps th
in go»p repair. The (labia ftauds on the rear of J;
the lot and wijl accommodata four horses and a car- ti
rlage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of aa6 feet c«urt and an alley, 8 loet wide,extend
ing to Cfwrry Street. Iti central position and the M
advantages it pofleffes with refpeA to free v«;itila- 0J
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any l
person wishing to poffefi an eligible property in Fhi- p
lade'phia, a
For further particulars enquire at No Bs, Vine v
Street—of
Robert Heysham, 1
or r A*s\ing Executors. a
Francis Bowes Sayr*> j (
January II $ <-
The Subscriber '
INFORMS thofi whom it may intcrcft or con- f
cent, thac the Judgv of the Cwurt ot Common
Pleas hav« appointed A/Tvnicty, tie iiventy-f\xtb duyof f
February nev* % t* hear him and h-s Credit<W9, at the t
Court-houlc in this city, on the fubje«fl of his pcti- j
tion for the benefit of the lafolvent Law—and
that their attendance is defiired. ]
JAMES GREENLEAF. i
PhihMpkia % Jan. 16. eotl6thF <
— ' intends to make '
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
i«i the Bank of the United S.atps/Aandtn* in the name
ofA.B. No. 5004, dated July 11, th e fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. i«
The Subicriber,
Informs those to whom be is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion since Decambcr 179$ arc balanced t,-> the 3 [ft
ult. and will (hiring the present month rem-iki
open at his Countißg-houfe in Chefnut Street tor
their further inveftigatioß ipd fciut ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. iil iy.jß.
All Persons
1 Having any demands aga' l nft the Estate of the
late Captain Gcorgs Irwin, are mpufttd to
bring in their accouitts pioperly attested, on or
- before the firft day of January n«xt ensuing
and those who are indebted to'faid.eftate are so
[ licited to make immediate payment to
1 SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
nev. 19 1797. $
f NOTICE. ~
ALL persons who have any demands against
n thu estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
t ceased, are requested to exhibit thejr accounts,
n properly aitelled ; and those who are indebted
1 to the fame, are defined to make immediate
_ payment, to
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
n December 1, 1797.
ON a releafc of survey of 433 acres,6B perchas
of land, fnuate in l»wcr Smithficld townfcip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath mad# the following note, via,
ThHand claimed by heirs »f Lewis Gordon and j
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Efy. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March n<*t is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the aiiove caveat, or any
others interested or concern«d therein, they having
in at lead thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
f ; of the Land Office.
b- N. Luf borough.
J' Jan-nary 16 §tiFzwtm
o- Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SfMON WALKER, -
, as Pinc-Jlr:ct, near Fifth.
ire January 29 diw
of
•>* Genteel Boarding and Lodging
moderite ptics—inquires
No. 138, Arch-street.
he J"'' d2 y
it To be fold,
on 7
a i. A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
yf XX ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
; c . story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
,ch Orchard, See. Ctuate on the Irilh tradl lane, in the
in. townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
,p 8 the cit> of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
)r. be made kjiown «pon application at the office of
ial the Philadelphia Gazette.
0 ! The improvements up«n this place, for taste and
0- eU-pance, ttand ifnrivalled.
1 December I. • <stf
nal * ' '
2 PROPOSAL. "
in- TTAVING met .with a liberal patronage, the
nd JTI Subscriber is emboldened to issue propbfals
(a* CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in i77j,to
S X . the prcfcnt time.
vi- This work fhaU be printed with a new type,
nd made for the purpefe; and en good paper. It
ur - will b# delivered at otie dollar per volume (odla
-sn_ vo) in 6 vals.—tafh to lie paid 011 delivery-
It ianeedlei's to fay any thing »l the merits of
__ this undertaking—th'. scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United 9:ates, is fiifficicnt to juth
' fy tbu printer in his hope of meeting with that
fuecefs, which he is certain the enterprise deserves.
er, JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. d 6t
to For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in while anil Mil/tiercel
Bomdeaux BtanJj
Teneriffe Wine
Molajjei
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Raxtns Dud and one bogjbead cf paiit
brujbes.
N. Cs* J. Frazfr.
No. 9S > Sontb Front Street.
Nov. J. dim-
PROPOSALS, J'
FOX PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crime* and psif
demeanors, l>y which public and piivate proper
ty, £t prtfent, injured and endangered :
A lid Tuggcfting remedies for their prevention.
BY A MACI3TRATB,
A&ing for the countuisof Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Efl'ex ; for the city and liberty of Wcftmin
fter ; aud for the liberty of the Tower of Lon-
don. \$
To those who have read this curious and v iluallc ifori,
it will need no reiimmendatio'i— they know its fblid merit
•—but as it has hitherto got into very fezv. hands in this _
country, it wilt not be avtifs to o'ferne —-Jo great iu3s the ll
approbation and demand in London, that it frafjid through
three editions in the course of twelve months. Jis a
detail of the ingenious varieties of fraud, tiat endanger
properly in London, ar.d moji other overgrown and opulent
it earmnt fail to afford the reader greet entertainment
as well as infrutiion ; but as the author traces all tbfe
enormities to a fevq, and in tbemfelver, inconfdcrabie canf
es, many of which attualh exijl in all the large capitals of
the United States, the buftnefs is brought heme to <• xvn
doors s and the work has an inertsfing claim to os/rvtten
tiviperufal.
To afpjl the Itgijiaior and ibe magijlrate in tie humane
tjßLe <>f preventing crimes, and their eonfequent punijh•
ments, was the patriotic dejign of the author. u Private
offences, he fay* x are the source of public crimes, and the
btjl method of guarding society agamfithe latter it, to wale
proper provisions, jor checking ibe former —* 4 Those men
are efijiiy fuueedfrom their Ivy a 'ty who are ap&flates from J
virtue.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a l»irge o&avo, 011
an excellent Englilh paper —It will be delivered to
fnbforibcrs, bound ia boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half; although the lall London c
edition, on' inferior paper and meanly bound, i©
now fold at *wo dollars and a half, i o non-sub-
fcribers the price will J>e raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to the without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be ro'ady for
publication early m April.
£jF Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Davles's's book-floie, No 68, Mish~
street, and by mod of ths other booksellers i» the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
-1 uel Campbell, and A. Drummoiid, tn New-York.
January 31. iflwtA
ROSS Ssf SIMSON, :
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cuffas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and l«uces
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 eaik.? RICE, 2nd
A pate el of (hip building RED CEBAJR.
o<ft. 27. $
To be Exchanged for
BritM, German, er India Golds,
in the 'package ;
•A trad of valuable Land
1 In Lycoming, joining that ef the Holland eo.
and containing io,ooo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan. if. 1 1 -
N OTIC E.
To holders of J.AMES GREENLEAPs
and ED WARD FOX'S
TN consequence of'many having been prevent
' led, from late unavoidable cirCumftancesfrom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ilTue the fame to those who may ap-
I ply within Gxtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
e and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
• provided for their payment,
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLEU, JUN.
s JOHN ASHLEY,
, JACOB BAKER,
p December r 5- d6ct
s, " for sale, at
Wm, Young's Book Store,
i No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
EPOR.T of the Committee of the House of
XV. Reprefentativesof the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recefu of Congress, and
intruding chfm " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to discover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" stands impeached, and who are the parties and
a affociatestheran." s
Printed by order of the House of Representatives
December 2©. §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
Ntf. lIP Walnut-street,
5 TNFORMS those who wilh to recur to the only
a JL means of becoming perfefl in the French lan
guage, that he has jult opened his Library, con
sisting of upwards of Ijoo volume?, the bed cal
— culated to afford «ither ufefu) inltruction, or plea
sure. The conditions, together wiih a catalogue
n of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
r0 m town.
I e N. b. AH translations from and into the French,
| le Englilh and Spanish Languages, executea with ac
m curae> and dispatch. eoim nov. Lf.
111 Samuel Pleafants Iff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-freet,
1( j TTAVE received a supply of Sealonable GOODS,
XT which they are now epening for sale, on
ri'afomhle term". Of\n. —.)w
,-This Day is PublHhed,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric # and the
other Booksellers, *
be Price One Dollar and twenty-fivecents,
Elegantiyprinted on IVo*vr paper, and Hot•
[I P r 'I ed •
By John f hompfon,
e A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
II The Conflitutions
a * Of ths several States with each other, and with
0 f that of the United Statis: exhibiting in Tables,
the promineat features of caeh Conftitutiou, and
clafling together their most impsrtant provisions,
lt under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITtI,
Of South-Carolina,
~~ L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
l/nited States.
Dedicated to th» People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies priated on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
" FLAX rot SPINNING,
Tn be given out every fecoud, fourth, and fixrh
day morning, between the hours of 10 Ind n—
back of no. fl, south Fiixii Urset, above Spmet
ftre«t. eodaw
Tames C. fcf Samuel \V..Fifher. 1
At THEIR STOKE, J ce
N0.513, comer of Arch and Front ftfeet. F.
BJt-E fOR SALS, _ 1,1
Cotton and worsted Hofitfy in trunks, alTored ai
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto fu;ty romall Handkerchiefe
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafj ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffttica
4000 piece. Nankeens, and
Few thefts beil Hyson Tea
Alfi 1500 boxes bell London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, |to 19 by 14 — ;il, d 15 hhds. Glaib
Ware assorted, which they willdifpok of cheaper
than any in the city. &
Nov 18 3t>
Imported (via'Ncw Yo/k) on the „
ihip Hero, from Madras an.l Calcutta, aud for
laid by the fubferiber, at Nd. 6 1, Chefnut llreet, p
between Second and Third Streets, the foli<sw- jj
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dozens t |
Chintz and Calicoe« Dacca worked mufllns j
Gillis Romaic j-
Willas 5c Penfiafoffs Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull MulWhankerchiefs Palempores
Pcttna do. Banares Opium
Leffer'Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox, j
novamber 17 tuth«4w A
— 1i
Valuable Books, |a
Just received by the Fai* American from j
London, and now opening and fc-Singby j c
J. Ormiob, No. 41, Chtfnut Street. a
CATALOGUES h
Of the newly itnpnrtedhooks may oe had gra- c
tis. These added to O's ufui* Itock, form an j I
extensive and elegant celleelic* of ancient and t
modern iiteraturs, and coraprife books in fun- c
dry languages and on various fubjeils. j 1
This Day a Puhlifhsd,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, haadfomely j
bound and lettered, and embellilhed with an
elegant fromifpiece and seventy three cuts.) j
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuabls colle>3»onof intereftirig and
mifcellancous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young mimU the happy ettirfls of yduthfui in
nocence and filial affci\i'os—ln prose and verl'e.
Designed to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred page 6, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, aud de
livered to fublcribers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliihed with an elegant frontifpiace, for one
dollar.
January j. 3t.
FOR SALE, bt
William Priestman,
119, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-houfe,-
A large ajfortment of
Gold and lilver Watches
A'Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
a to the King of England
r Ditto, by Parker
y Pair duelling Piftois, by Knubley, Charing
Croft
' Refleding Telescope, by Ribright
j Box of patent Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small colle&ion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787-
Alio, 14 Lake Erie Lots
_ Invoices or parcels of Watehes boughs.
January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary.
t W. YOUNG,
No. Second-flreet, corner of
ie TT AS now ready for sale, a very large afTort
ii- XJL ment of EngUJh, French, Latin and Greek
of SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fii(ch elementary books
id ob Science, as are generally read in the academies
id and colleges throughout the United States.
ul LATELY PUBLISHED,
nt Sheridan's Ditflionary, the Ifoth edition, in one
nt large vol. Svo price 3 dols.
id Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 its-
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
es All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blarfk Books, Wax, Waferg, aud other articles, ef
the bell quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
ly Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&iou of
n- BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
n- by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
", e Diseases.
r S THIS DAY IS in one vol. oflavo.
: h, By William Youno, Qoolfeller,
ic- No. sl, Second street, the corner of Chefnut (Ireet,
f Price, in board/ .8711 Cents)
~ Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
AVIEW
on' Of the Science of Lipe ;
On the principles eftabliftied in ths elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correal some important e-r
---rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, cliief
t(. ly felefled from the records of their practice, at
the Genersl Hospital at Calcutta,
Br IVillum Tate* b" Chas. Maclean.
To which is. fubj»ined, a Treatise on the a>3ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diftafes of indirect debility,
; t h AndadilTertation on the source* of Epidemicind,
es, Peftilentialdifeafesj inwhichisatteraptedtoprove
nd by a numerous induction of fails, that they ne
ns, ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ith ced b/ certain fiates, or certain viciflitude« of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclcan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. Jut
h£ Wanted, to Hire,
. y A Largt and convenient HOUSE, in or near
'A. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Q&.,17. ' cots
Tin Plates,
,|, / FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
t- Pine, near Fifth street.
J December it. iw
The holders of Certificates, ac
ceptances, endorsements and other engagements of
Edward Fox, far account of James Grceoleaf, arc
hereby notified, that Wednesday, the 14th Febru
ary next, is the 'aft day, *n which they can admit
fuMcriptions to the (und aflignej for th< payment
of said engagements; and that those holders, who
do no> on or before that day make their flibfcrip
rions, will be excludod from thebenelit thereof.
Henry Pratt,
T. IV. Francis,
John Miller, jun.
'John AJbley,
Jacob Baker.
January 19. . $
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a considerable time on the
miflion in the country parts of the ftateot Penn
sylvania, gives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the laid state, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufquehanna, or
Janata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlement with from fifty to one hundred and sis
! Tv families, if due encouragement be cft'ered.—
For f»rth» information, apply to the Kev. Leo
nard Neale, Wiliing's Alley.
Feb. 8. *.»t
83" Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDF.D from his matter's employ, in the
city of Phlladejpiira, on the sth of this ii
ftant Febmiry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches 'lll height, and of rather 1
} a (pare make ; his phjliogn- my is vacant hut noC
disagreeable; his age is supposed to be about 40.
He had on when he went away, a short blue cloth
coat, striped cafiinsere vest, corduroy br/eeches,
ana yarn ftockingi of a blue and white mixture—
he took with him a blua clotl. great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a fitoft blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape ami cuffs ; alf», a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other cloath»s he took with
t him cannot he particularly described
It is iuppofed, he intends going to the eastern
(bore of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend,and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his wiafter
may get him again, or bring him home, Ihallhave
a reward of twenty dollars.
j Apply to the Printer.
I February f. $
7 ' FOR
By JOHN MILLER, jus. Cv.
No. 8, Ch ■■ lnut-ftroet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoo&ies
Bafta6 Sannas
Qu«Zvnahs Tanda ColTaes
Gusrzits Emertics
BJup Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Awongft them are a great proportion ci the
tpanufa&ures of Patna.
December 1. §
1 Insurance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania. ji ;
February t, 1798.
THE DireAors have this day declared a dividend
( of seventy dollars on each (hare of the ftocls of the
company, for the lall fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholder} or their legal reproferita
tivesafter the loth inft.
JAMES S. COX, President.
February!. dijt
For Sale.
THE SubfcriVer offers for sale the property now
occupied by him in the town of Weft C'heftcr
and county of C heftcr. It coniiftsof a well finifhed
two fiory stone h«ofe, 43 feet front, by abont 40
j deep, four rooms on ail«or, with cieled garrets,
and a cellar under the whole—A very good flpne
Stable and Coach houfu—And a lot of Ground,
tkree perehes wide, by twenty perchds depth.
The house Hands «n the Main street; it* fituati©n
is high and very handsome; the lot extends to a
back street, on which the stable and coach houf©
e ltand. The lot is in a high (late of
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
1 which has, at no time, be«*n known t« fail.
The situation of the town is high, and rcmirk
ably healthy—the country tround it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will mad# to suit the
purchaser. Tliey, and the price, will be fettled,
upen application to Mr. Jonathan Sm-th, at uo.
149, "South Third-flrfet; Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
j, Fehruary f. mvvftf
City Commiflioner's Office,
"January lltb, 1798.
f6 FOR THS INFORMATION OF THE CITIZINI.
r PHE following arrangement is made by tie
.1 said commiflioners, for cleansing the
ie streets, &c,
Diftriit No. 1. —From the north fide of Vme
street, to the fouih fide of Mulbefry street j to
be under the fuperintf ndance of Nicholas Hicks,
id a From the south fide of Mulbrry street, t«
I*, the south fide of Gkefnut ftrreet, to be under the
:s, fuperintendance of William Moulder,
ef 3. From the south fide of Cnefnut street to
or the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoo.'e.
°' 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
;u south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwftta
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan*
0# lei Crawley, Matter,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer iff Son.
nouemher 9.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AY frsm the fubferiber, on the t4tit
of December, 1797, a SJtgro Man, about »»
years old, by the name of Cato.he is abo»t 5 feet
r ~ 7or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned ;h»
has a very c»arfe voice, iiis fore teeth ftara very
at far apart; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he too> • ■tb
v. him, for he took two or three suits ;he had on
>n when he went away, a pair of kerfcy trowfers, a
a- half worn drab coloured coat, a-half worn wool
hat; he took with him four very good Ihirt*—t
J, ixpcfl he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.'
i e V hofoeVer takes up said negro and secures him, f»
P . that the owner may ger him again, /hall have the
u _ above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
.. l.ivihg iuSt ill Posd, Kent county, Maryland.
ot - January 1. . *6t2aw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of »superior quality manufaflwretl,
GINGEK "and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
" 5 Ale and' Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale j
,n I.ondon Porter ; red. Port and LiJb'on Wine,
duitahle for exportation or home confumptioß.
_ The highest price given for i»luftard-Seed.
Mfo for/ale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety o£ colors j a bale of
t uftiani, Shawls, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
Ne. 58, south Fiont-ftree:.
»«•»• »7- in.&th.t.fj.