JDaily Ws
, J OH N Ward Fen no, N°* iip Chefnut Street. K
huMSEA 19350 PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 29/ ijgg.
_ • -J/> 1 ■■ • /»■ «———■. « : __ _■
a-y The fries of this Gazette is
' Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers reftding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclojtng and iiretting;
and unless fomeperfon in this city wtll
for ike fabfcrip
tien, it must be paid Six Months in
advance.
a
For Sale, c
Mrs in res, i
A E.R IA L, l
AND li
PENNSYLVANIA, f l
BURTHEN about threa hundred f t
to&s each, built of the ball materials and well found c(
—may be sent to sea at a small expence. The
charade, of thefc flnp>< are so well known, that a
particular description of them is deemed unne
cessary. For term* apply to
GURNEY SMITH.
Nov. 11 § '
Jror Sale, |
PACKET,
lings CowptßTUWAir, Matter,
BURTHEN about 1,500 barrels, * good strong -p
Ship—has eicollentacoommodationsforpaifengers, q
may be sent to sea with small sxpence. Sbe is lay- h
quire of C(
Isaac Harvey, j"un, or pi
Smith & Ridgway.
November 16 <Sut p r
FOR SALE, : b;
, . . Dc
jfT" TBR SHIP Pa
PERSEVERANCE,
Janes Williamfon, majlcr.
Jfuft arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- kj
ladelphia, • f live Oak and Cedar, copper (heath- [3
cd in London, burthen tons mounting 16 '
tuns and may be prepared for sea in a few days, Cfcj
With her Cargo,
Now on Board, J -J
CONSISTIMO or
ifi Hoglheads and jo barrels Sugar
260,000 Weight of prime Cofiee in hhds. bbls J
and bags W
j 1 Punchedfis of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO, I
i.ltofcv '»«'" a _ I
JiSßk, TA C
' witiumoMi Majter. I M
FKOM St. Domingo, with her cargo, foofiftiiig of I Jg
4.3 hogftieads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee, j
likewise,
j —4i-l Tile B*to
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING l» Guns, burthen J
■BaSESa? two tboufand two hundred barrels of JkJ
Flour, and in aompleat order.—Apply to JIH
Thomas John Ketla/id.
nooember 11 4 I
- » ?t h
Elliston & John Perot, Litil
Have for Sale, at
No. 4.1, North Water-Strut, I
Muscovado Sugar „ , „ ~ ... n °
Copper s (heetsit nails ®« dl " Handkerchief,
Copper Ore Madeira Wine j
Lignum Vita: L ? " *" d
Sail Canvass A [' w barrcls SW an <M . J
Oznabrigi Herrwg. s£J
Also For Sale, J gj|£
ths stoor
JfcfPPjjfr' BERMUDA-PACKET, \7^
W Burthen 108 tons- -Bermu fn,all
«la built, fails remarkably faQand is well found. I
nov 8 w&fjw I
For Sale. jj||
r f HE SuBSCMdBH, intending to decline the !
X DRUG BUSINESS, ofiors For Sale, th? I teen 0
■whole Siock or I w ; lh ]
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &i, I
The (tap .is elegant, commodious, aud fuffici
ently known for the extensive business Cone in the I 5?
whokfale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being at the col tier of Walnut and
iewnd streets. The whole, or any part of the t
Stock, will bo fold, as will bed fuitthe purchaser beeo s
Thx terms may be known, by applying to I m a fc
JAMfib MOORE, jun. I
IVlo has For Sale, i
e " "'culated tor the J 18^
Ihe Peggy, about 30 tons burthen, f '
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably | '°
good'order? ef Lj
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails t
complete order for the'umber bufinef, I ~
f rZi persons indebted to the late firm nt I
W "■ GM't-uah, GrJa. I "
«v<nt\2 m, re , ax the fubferiher, are I 2
eequefted t. make speedy p,y„ tm J 0 earnestl y 89
-««t 3 JAM " MOORE . 3 ' 5 °3
"77 3*;
»rt ÜBLIC L <
• dock m the evening, at the Merchant's !\.
ABIGAIL, i
As fte now lies at Mr. Weft'. 1»
wurt—Burthen abont 1400 barrels I 6
illbcmadßknown atthe time P ' 1
wvttnber 19 jtrawW J o<f(e
r ad- f
lin z ; u SHIP BROK : ?ls (v<"LC F,
' -And CommiJJtm Stare,
cr, P~ No. 1:9, Sooth frowtStrfet,
'S in Next ilosr to she Culiom House.
THE Subscriber, encouraged py the advice of
. _ . _ his friends, offers fcis lervice to the public
19 a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es ta buy and fell veflela and every thing relat
ingthereto—aflift misters of veflels and others
r in entering; and clearing at the Cnftom-rloufe,
> procuri»g and (hipping freight, fettling Inl'ur
auce ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oeceflary Blanksand Stamps. 1
Papers in foreign languages translated, aud in- '
formation given in general mercantile matters.
' —From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of bufinei's he hopes to be use
, red f"' to tta °k who please to favor him with their
Th commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
, november To S
that a V
FOR BREMEN,
r iTTgv the ship
- T R 1 T 0 N »
SHE is now loading, and will cer- .
fail in Ten Dsys.—Forlreight
or passage apply to (
- 1 ' Pratt is* Kintzing.
i itlcr » WHO HATI FOR SALS,
rong Ticklenhurghs Checks
'S ers > Oznabrigs Stripes
' ' a )'" Hessians Slippers
Crown r»I'» Cam'»rieVr ,
Coffee bags Twine
Platillas Glafsßmblers
Brittanias Port vine
Eflopailles Wimow glass
Creas a la Morlaix Brinllone
Bielefield linnen Malogany I
Dowlas jßedcruft cheefe,&c.&c.
Patterbornes { al
ir> AL>o In
' For Freight or Charter,
'f•
Phi THI ,lir * •
; a i« c HARLOTTE,
Apply as a We.
! nav - " diot
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrels in Shipping Order.
FO* sale BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North From-Jireet.
Effort » fn C -
of about 300 Tons burthen.
Has also for
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov 11 ' m4t
FOR WILMINCTdN,"^"
N'o *TK-Caiouh »,
COMMENCE,
WILL take in freight on*erytmQ
*>bißt3SUK33()erate terms, and fiil about the
*th instant. Apply to the Captain on board at
.atimei's wharf, or
Willings & Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 £
For SALE or CHARTER,
jyj THE SHIP ,
jl7^^^^^B" r 'hen 4100 barrels of Flour, Che.
Philadelphia built, well found Dro !
fitted, and may he ready
I receive a cargo in a few daye—lhe is pierced Live
5 gun», and mounts 12 new fix poanfers, with
*all arms in proportion. Mei
Scot'
THE SHIP One
Burthen 1,100 barrHs of Flo'ur, —-
;Philadelphia huilt of live oak
and c*dar, is pierced for four-
II gun», end mounts ten new four pounders, *
th small arms m proportion.
P
jOTk AMAZON,
H&wSI r\ Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flaur, Whu
New-England built, has lately
:o fitted, and may be ready for sea Su
a few days. Eli
For terms apply to Ca:
NIC KLIN & \JRIFFr7H. Rc
Who have for Sale F 1
» boardfundry x-efcls at Mazcvs-Hook, Cal
,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine fait i
109 bu/hels of coals Mu
186 crates ef queens ware afforte* Vel
7 tierces of bottled porter An
10 barrels of coleothard paint Rei
4 do. of purple brown do. Red
uantity of yellow ocre in cifks An
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint ° B ®
6 barrels mineral black 7*B
15 barrels Spanish brown do' 9*B
3S boxes of pipes " Cot
9t boxes white Jul-.,..j JAi. 03 ' do
89 do. brown SHA5 HAV AT Thr
foclbs. prime cochineal ' nOVi
3 barrels New Orleans indigo U
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits M
ac bales of fail tanvafs f/,0 y f~)
179 feeets of copper, aflitrted from 48 by'ja n 1
to 60 by 48 inches Supe
otubsraifedft.il bottoms afTorted -
30 fix pound guss 4}f se t, 84ewt each
v 1?" , 4 feee ' and ' 4 lbs each
f. " rel » of ffun M»der >© - ci;B p
6 cases Mancheft*,,on checks '
3 trunks muilins
lo "•"flinets, dimities and gfnghams
a 8 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
* K P r<nted calicoes
6 bale, of white and coloured caffimeres
I bale of course woollens
I'lh nails ad'orted. v ■ '.l.
fri.&fat. tf. j flov<
J
REMOVAL
W
George Dobs< :
•> TVFORM9 hit friends and thcPubl : mgvV a!
it «t a o lk,t " c ha ' """"ved 't"«m No. 15 .South IfirJ
ird at to No 9*. s «ath fide of Mafket-ftreet, tw
the corner of Third Street, aad Is bow
a very extensive afTor*ntn t ut
;• DRY GOODS,
. - • sir/7 481. F. FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
r> I V *L'? ICM Ht HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the Cups WiUiaw Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
Irom London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas
m Liverpool, and will b« lold low for cafli,
or approved notes at * ftiort date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
."l! Caffimeres, fafhionable colours
Yorkfhirc 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatinss
Welch flannels ,
Kersey beav»r, for Spencers
Jeanncts and fabby tfords
nx Velvetsa«d velretteens
Velverets and thickfetts
' 7» 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and lio.n checks
inft. 4 4 bed tics t
g o f. 6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
it is London chintz and chintz
,1 of Furniture cottons
rican Uo - dimit i" ,
T rr Purple and Lhintz ftiav. il
J Silk do. '
futi Camel, h.ir do. '
Silk, cotton, and worsted hofc , c
. India and British fcufluu of every description \
Black and white erape
Tiffany and paper fans
" Hats ajp.rted in small cifcs
J Umbrellas ' J
j Peelings and fattins
iday Laces and edgings
f nr Ribbands
jjjj Silk Modes
Superfine F*ench cambnck
Cayibrick muslins (]
Do. threads n
l'ulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs, J
r f And an elegant assortment of f (
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 § p
J u st imported in JJjips William Penn, A- ri
mi able and Jean, from London,
. A (]nantity of Cannon ,sizes 4,6 3c 9 lb. 9 with balls
Carronades n lb,. ]• f Ultlhl -.
Mufquets, Muf S aetoons,Cutlaffes anJI W
• Pistol*, for £hips ufc,
Rifl.d barreled Guas, Fowling Pieces, gs" r
aad Hsrfeman's Pistols, cr"2 '
400,000 Flinu, chiefly for mu&ets, in ' R*
:„ j w
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab- C
bards, in cases of 50 «ach,
* Light Cavalry Swords in Cafe.
Sabres, Sword, and Cutlasses, with plat.d mounting
Ironmongery and. Cutl»j« : o
p,, , Thomas & J no . Ketland\
Philad. O&ober aj.
Jult Arrived, -
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and t
now landing at Walaut Street wharf, 1
r ourth proof Brandy in Pines tb
Brimflonff. at
An assortment of valuable DRUGS, p«
„ . . consisting or '
Opiam, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, Pi
: En . . Cr «mor Tartar, See. &c. s a l
Eucnces of Lemon rnd Bergamot ...
paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutcftriags '
Satins *8
Crapes 1 I
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cafus y
/, Old Mad.ir* Wins of the ftrft qnslhy. ter:
JAMES YARD. »eu
November 3 j wh
ISRAEL PLEA'SANTS^CoT
No. 74, South Second street, n
Have returned from the couiAry ; and lave far
SALE, as vfual, a large assortment if
:s . • DR Y GOO DS,
Imported in the last vessels from Europe, confifhrv
of articles principally suited to the prefeat ar.d apl <
preaching season v
They are determined to fell off very low for Gl
cash or (hort credit.
9 pcrfons mdtbtcd t0 th » late firm of jn°?i
S ">, U ' l Pl '^ n " * i '""> "c desired to make im
mediate payment to ths fubferibers. m '
Israel Pleafants & Co. u!
Nov. 2 j
d4w to p
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof H
poinderV.' CBm P lete 6 a » d 9 parti
Carronades, Woolwi«h proof, with carriages &c
complete—u, 18 aad 14 pounders. -him
Cannon powder in kegs of Ijlbs. each cnt>
Round, double-headed,and cannifter (hot _!?
Patent Iheathing copper, bright, assorted 18,20
i 2, 24, *6 and 18 or per square foot, fteet's 48
by 14 inches, suitable for vessels from 100 to TI
1000 tons of thi
Copper nails, bol»e aad spikes <fg c
Boarding Pikes, ia the
Common cutlaffc-s whicl
Gunners stores of all kinds ■ ct, Cs
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross boxes
Patent £hot in calks of jewt. each No. 3
London porter and >»cown stout, in calks of 7 doz * 3 '
bottled.
Earthen ware in c. ates, asserted o>3
for Salt hy
SIMON WALKER, 1}
. „ , Pine near jth street.
Oaobw 10. eo tf>
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED, ved si
For property in the City, or within Thirty N(
miles of it, When
A Valuable Plantation, cei n v^
IN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing
about three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, 30 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing stream, that
his fall and water enough for all the purpofei of T) E
a Country Mill. For further information apply at K. f
No. 68, Market flreet. p .
pov.'mber 29 tBW
JOHN SHIELDS,
broker,
• b *** erta7 "V t0 ? r &"<
r v *0 tHS JtJ/ax-c.u*. f 3r . L , Jy p H ,} v w ,
i tfki acquaint tbrm that h: „ retur^'dfr,..,
r VJ>efnut-Hill, to bis former rdidcncr, the
ij.cii.ug hou/e Ae.ti Ojldniit between Front
TT . T „iI . ""J Secand-ftreet,
W H f_ R6 he holds himfelf read v to execute
■ISOX, , fir elr c ° mraand « '1 e»«rv branch of his
profeffioni trusting that from a residence m thi,
1 Jane, . 0 years he has rt in iij power to render
■homas [wvice > .affiiring them that his
>r cafli, co " l, wlion fhadbe as l u w a £ a nv in Town
Lorn, La*ds, Houles, VefTeb, Certified,
and k C r ery J ic l cr f tlbn an<i B-1U of KxebanL,
Led Vh"l ~ | t )' c dockeus carefully tXara
"l2dcuPoD the ft one It no
tice, by the public's humble servant,
. . ■ ' 7"hn Shields. •
cr- Good negotiable Notet difccunted
it a low premium.
nov ""*r 7 3 avrf.
ch«k» Notice is hereby Given,
T H / 1 j pr!'f "'on will be msde it the'Trea
f, fu 2i, • Un,tcd the renewal
t j .. f °"f >wn P ctriificate* of Six per Cents.
the name of Robert
HJ/c* ot Calcutta Benfial, Surgeon in the > "
lervice ot th* honorable United Company of
merchants ot England trading to the East-In
dies, which we.e loftfmm onboard the Swai
iption y W " "' ca l' [ frr,m to N tw .
xi° -DM- Cti.
iNo i 0,444, office- 14th Dec.
1 7*.?, ""e cenlfieate for I i? , ~
ko 10,478, Reg. office 17th Dec.
1 792> one c» tifkate for i 9f9
Ellijlon & John Perot.
nev eodAw
Whereas the certificate of two
(hares of the Bank of the United States in the
name ot Samael Amory, of London, banker,
r j *,'7 ued '* cu of "*93» UJ94, were
torwarded from London by the British packet
ng. „ m S?V Deicefter, capt. Dodd, bound for
§ which paclstt was capttired by the
—r rench, and the faifl certificate lolt; andforthe
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to
ball, not'Ce
.bl" p ., , CLEMENT BIDDLE.
1 Phila. Odl. >6, ljjSi co6w
T~
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
Scab- Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
'\C J to
t Na J' Fraz ier,
' "ovember 13 ' Front Street'
—— 3tawjw
- A L i
SS,
cept at Prefqu'lflc La Bajuff" i: S* CJ *
nna, Pictfour^—-will bepleafed tn f an <*
sal? und?r fcaici c?, „ on £I f* "T Pr °P°-
n«t month, December; ' bcfOTe the ioth "> f
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
j , TH J TO CONSIST OF
I 1-4 pound of beei or 340f a p OU nJ 0 f pork
18 ounces of bread or flour o'porfe
I gill of rum, brandy or whifter
J quarts of f a | t '
4 quarts of v.acgar /_
4 pounds of soap ( For CV "J 100 rations.
I I-Jlb.candles. J
i " the,r ne " f e ' r "« make al.
nufion ormcreafe. cale of d imh .
for ~~ oy ~- t".w&th.tioD
George Davis's
LAW-BQOK STORE,
Tig No. 319 HreH-ST*IET.
ip. latest London Cs? Irish Editions.
■or G » I a " in 'P or<alic>l > "now
lion hr btr • W 1 morc ca P' tal ccllec
of *°", hc p eieVe ; wa « offered for lale either
n al„ 5
Z m '* ,th scvt «l valuable book*
fall of Law BoSf V ' S ? COnfinin K h!mfelt "the
if ' ".' 8 Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
9 particularly oblige him by calling for thera
and to those residing « a distance, hy fovorinff
sent W ' " r 3ddrefs ( P ofl -p*' d J they still be
jov iO — m * l ham
8 Notice is hereby given,
o r T u H^ T a PP'* at 'on will be mads to ifce treafurr
of the United States for the renewal of the follow
wg eestifieates of fix per cents, funded debts ftand
i. the na n»c of Jan, Gabri.U, RigauJ, of Gca.va,
which were Ipft from 0 n board the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmsuth toNew-Yotk.
N0.3195. Reg.office !9thMay ' 9 j, i cer t. for
e. 13,15'-' do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3jo«
Willing* & Franc'u. '
Oaoberj, 4 . eod6w# '
Dobbin c< Roberts,
TAYLORS,
- n ESPECTJULLY inform theirCulWrs, ani
? üb lic in gemral, that they have rem*,
ved from No. ri 4l Chefnut Street, to
r No. 30, South Fourth Street v
Where orders in their line will be thaaktully re
ceived and diligently attended to.
, '5 «w&f,» W
R. TAYLOR^
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
9®' KOXTH SIXTH-STRUT,
D ESPECTFULLY informs the Public that
lie continues to t<mch Ladies tbs Piant
Forte as usual,
Nov. 6.
[VcLUM£ XIV.
' * . ' JlNOTICE
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflate doc- s
tor Hu£h fludjTe, Ueceal'ed, are reqatflied
to make immediac payment —and those having .
demands Jgainfi tie £ftste arc delired to authen- |
ticate and prefenl t'lem to.
MARIA HODCE, adminiftrairix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, admihiflrator.
nov ao §
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfozs indebted to the cftitc ofF.'Ktfc
felmun deccafed, are requcftcd to make im
mediate wayment, and those having demands a- rr
gainst the said tftate, are desired to produce the
fame to JACOB F. KISSELMAN for fo
ment, who are empowered by
Susannah Kiflelman,
, Adm'tn'iflratiix. tl
n]
7he Bnjtnefs if F. Kijfelman deceeafed, la
18 CONTINUED BY > ' t?]
. Jacob & Fred. Kisselman, ti<
WHO HAVE FOH SALE, &
Jamaica Spirits '*"] .?l
Weft India and Country Rum [3
Holland and Country Gin OI
Sugir .
Coffee la
Sherry "1 P'
Lilbon / WINES.
Port, and I ar
Malaga J ev
nov. 26 dtf It
Notice is hereby Given, P<
THAT application will bj matle ai the Trea.
fary of tie United States, for the renewal of 01
, the following certificates of Funded Debt, {land- m
- ing in the name ot Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea, f )(
London, thefaid Ctrtifirates having been forward- n(
cd by the Shlf ElUee, Hatvcy, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and supposed
to be lo^.
, N0'11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New- tc
York, 18th April, 1796, far Dollars. 1481,47- «
No. 8171, 3 Per. Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK. z <
november iS d6vv
"notice.
ALL Perfont indebted to the Eflate of Doclor je
Francis Bowis SAVR»j decealed, are re- 0
queftsd to malce immediate payment—and those
having detrands against the said Eflate, are desired
to ptoduct the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann' Sayre, ? Admiuiftratrix. 11
Robert Hcyfliam, 5 Administrator.
November I dtw
"wrapping paper. e
c
FOR SALE, VERY CHEAP,
A of printed Paper, suitable for 1 e
Grocers, Tobaccoaiftt, &c. Enquire of the \fl
Printer, | n
nov 20 4* I a
The Subscribers a
HAVE JUST RECFIVED AW INVOICB OF v
Choice ChefhireyDoableGloucefter h
, cheese. j
j [Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.] h
100 Boxes of Window Glass, "
" Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London. t
> ; i They have alfn for Sale,
• T r '~ •• c t> ■- n f- ■—
r AND A QUANTITY OF i(
Fine Castor Oil. i j
James C. & Samuel IV. Fiflier. <
November I . dtf
FOR. SALE, \
» By Fishbourn Wharton, j i
c at No. 118 South Fourth-Jlreet. j t
China Ware, j t
e Nankeens ! I
Teas |
Boglipores [
Lutestrings, is* I
- Silk Shawls.
, s nov. 13. odtf
d Ephraim Clark, !
, CLOCK V WATCH MAKER, .
Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia, ]
HAS JUST RECEIVED, 1;
® T)Y the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock r
e Xj and Watch mak<r« and Silver Smiths Tools, |
t files and materials, ,
CONSISTING Of
Rowling Mills, large and small Bench and Hand
_ Vices, Turnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra- 1
ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch brash- ,
es, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates, large and
* small Hammers, Clock dials, call brass Bells, for
h ged w»rk and pinions, ETiery, Rotten Done, Pu
o mice stone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
'' Iron wire, fheec Brass, main springs and glalTes
:r gold, gilt, and steel chains, seals and keys, See. &c.
CEj" Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
nov. 2i eodtf
WILLIAM YOUNG,
Bookseller ts* Stationer.
Corner of Second and Chesnut-Strsst.
HAS now opened for Sale, a neat aflortment
of Enghjh, Latin and Greek SCHOOL
BOOKS and CLASSICKS, of the latest and
bell Editions.
ALSO,
J_ Writing Paper, Slates, Wafers and other ar
e tides for th« supply of Wholesale purchasers. j
W. Yotingy has lately Published an f
Edition of the Bible fer the nfe of schools, on a 1
d fine, and also on eommon Paper. Also, an edi- (
tion of the Pocket Bible*? in one, and also bound ,
in two volumes.
Sheridan'sDi&ionary, in one large r01.8v0.3
do do iimo. fine I 7s
do do do common 150 (
• do do Elements of English 184
j Sandford aad Merton, on line paper, (
t 3 vols, gilt edges: a 3? i ,
Scotts LefTons 80
The Book of Common Prayer J
A large allowance made to those who pur
' chafe wholesale, either in (keets, or neatly bound- '
nov et 7t '
Tea Warehouse, j
|Aa Hi, South Side of Market-Hreet, between ]
1 hit d and Fourth-streets. ■
SARAH EATON, i
RESPECTFULLY iuform« her friends and the 1
public, that flic hai removed from no. 39, ]
~ fcuth Front street, to Market street, where her
friends and the public may depend on being.sup
. plied with all kinds of TEAS of the fird qualities
t at moderate prices. '
J nov. 17 few.fr.6t
h BALLAST. !
A QUANTITY to bedifpofed of, if applied for
immediately, on board ihe Ship Louiia, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard.
' november xo. $
<£asette*
Jed ■ ■
in S i PHILADELPHIA, ''
en- ! .• • fe
I , ]y
THURSDAY S.VINING, NOFEMBER i 9.
> From the C>fc»MßiAN Mirror. cc
<if- M'fflLwte* I. ;9
in.- fu
'Z TO THE P£)PLE OF VIRGINIA. d '
t. ' - th
;5i Fellow Ciiztns, de
! IN lpm< ptt&i of our country, difiatisfac- "
rix. tiocs hare Eiten ettattd in tlw: rninds of ma
ny, with the conduct of Congress at their (j
, last fcflion in the palling two laws known
bty the namesj«f the Alien Law and Sedi
tion Law. I{ is ever desirable that things m '
fliould be fein io their true light, and efpe- an
thofe ft»utfs whose constitutionality P a
:»s feri&ufly* drawn in question, by men whose r^]
opinions are refpe&ed in society. T have
lately seen a remonstrance against these laws
proposed to the people of Albermarle for
their fignatnres, and to the Senate
and House of Representatives, which has
every appearance of study and deliberation.
if_ It isfuppofed to have proceeded from the
pen of -
rea and it contains such a rtprefentation of the
los objeftions to these laws as might alarm and
nd- midead some of the bed intentioned and
' ea > bed affeifted men among us towards the Ge- pa
neral Government. Tiie objeftions ought of
>(ed not t0 P a^s ""noticed, and I have waited in it,
the hope that some writer more competent tr
ew- to the talk would have undertaken their je<
'• refutation. It is for this purpose alone, re
' and not to awaken party spirit or political so
zeal, that I (hall trouble the public with fu
y some observations on the Albermarle remon- te
ftrance.
Against the Alien Law it is fiogly ob so
dor je&etl that the power of fending alien frier.ds fe
re * out of our territory was never vested in the re
""ed fJ overnment ie United States. To er
maintain the objection the remonstrance par- w
x ticularly recites tie powers given to Con tl
gfffs, as enumeraiefi in the eighth fediion in
of the firft article, andaflerts that the lawis vv
~ warranted by none of tiiem, and if warrant- a
ed by none of them, concludes that it is un- p
constitutional. li
It is remarkable that the writer of this
for elaborate performance, who certainly be- t<
?he : stowed much confideratioo on the f«bjeft, tl
! never, in his researches in the Constitution, it
article ; and this is the more unaccountable, li
when we are allured that" in all its parts it t'
ler had been examined." t
' The fourth feftion of the fourth article f
has ordained that " the United States (hall a
" guarantee to every state in the Union, a r
| " republican form of government, and Jball t
" prote3 each of themasraiiUl invasion : and. on i
" tiinlijt (T. iflfn * e( T'" ature or °' the fX - C
41 convened) against domestic violence."—
• Here the dflty of " pretelling eachJlatefrom t
wr. i< invasion," it exprefnly imposed on the t
•' States. To discharge this duty, the *
United States are bound, not only to repel \
> j invaders after t"hey {hall have entered our b
j territory, bat t6 prevent, if poflible, an ac- c
j tual invafiofl. The means necessary and pro- t
: per to protest from invasion, whether ,by r
repelling or preventing it, are to be decided <i
by COngrtfs. The lalt clause of the Bth g
fe&ion of the firft article has given them the e
power " to make all laws which (hall be c
" necessary and proper for carrying into ex- i
Its " ecution the foregoing powers, and all £
" other powers vested by this constitution c
"in the government of the United States, c
4 ' or m any department or officer thereof." n
phia, I n palling this law, then, Congress passed a i
law that was necessary and proper for car- )
:lock rying into execution the power veiled in the i
00,s > United States to protest each of the states a
from fardgn invasion. a
land It was passed on the 25th day of June f
Bra- last, when the mod serious apprehensions 1
rash- were entertained that France, whose decrees j
f o n r _ and conduft were, and yet are, hostile to 1
p u . the United States, would fend an army and c
land invade some part of our country, where it 1
afies was weakest ; perhaps some of the southern I
; &c - or western states. Under this impreflion t
ired we find a considerable addition has been J
111 made to the army of the United States, and t
the President was authorized still further \
to augment it in the event of a declaration (
of war, or aftual invasion, or of imminent f
danger of such invasion, by calling into fer- t
nent • , c ' °,.
vice a number ot troops not exceeding ten 1
ant j thousand men. At this time there were a '
great number of alien Frenchmen difperfedin (
various parts ef the United States, capable t
:r ar- of bearing arms ; and some of them were 1
rs. justly fufpefted to be emissaries and spies t
an for the Dire ft or yof France, employed to \
on a fend intelligence of what was palling in our t
iedi- country. The number of these alien French
oind men exceeded, at the lowest tftimate, 20 s
thousand men, ready to join the French i
llandard, whenever it should be erefted on j
so our land. i
18-i Would it have been prudent or fafe, un- (
der thele circumstances, to have been with- 1
■ 37i out a law that authorised the removal of 1
jj?, aliens dangerous to the peace and fafety of j
the United' Statesi Ought congress, who
und. are " to protest each state from inva- j
fion," to have taken no measures for author- <
izing the removal of the aliens, whose pre- <
fence held out the strongest inducement to t
veen France to attempt an invasion ? In the situ- I
ation of America will it be said that this ;
law was not a proper one to prevent an inva- 1
Jthe fion ? Was not the piobability of invasion
' 39. lessened by-depriving France of the aflift
sup- ancc wbiqh '"'g' ll havc been -attained aud
litici woutd be expeiSed from alien Frenchmen in
the bosom of our country J It was then
• 6t with the view to protest us from invafi„„
that the law was passed, and wifely pasf c( J
d for empowered the President to •« orJe'-
lying ' such alicn » as he M judge dangerous to
rd . " the peace and fafety of the United St at , s
J "or lhall have reasonable ground# to f u^
L " pcft are con cerned in any treasonable or
" fecrtt machinations against the govern
" ir.ent thereof to depart out of the terri
" tory of the United States." This my
fellow citizens is the law which is confident
ly pronounced in the Alberraarle remon
tlrance to be unauthorised by our conftitu.
tion, and which from " a solicitude for the
constitution" you are called upon to declare
a violation of that sacred instrument. This
is the law which you arc. dcfired "to cen
sure for unconftitutionality which by no can.
did interpretation," can be ju'ftified ; this is
the law of which you are called upon to
declare in words of the remonstrance, " to
. " the text then of the constitution we ap
. " peal in all its parts ; we have examined
. " it ? iu none do we read the delegation of
1 " an authority competent -t» the '•"-■■tiau
" of either of those law's." Before you
j make this declaration I pray you to pause
and consider : be not content to read those
r parts of the constitution only to which the
. remonstrance ref.-rs, bnt read and consider
, that fe&ioti which either by accident or de
j sign it has omitted, but which is now
r brought before your view.
. ° VIRdNIENIS.
Numb7!j! 11.
to THE PEOPLE
[ Fellow Citizenr,
1 I HAVE fnbmitted to your view those
- parts of tlie constitution of the government
t of the United States in the very words of
i it, and my interpretation of them, which I
C trull will shield the Alien Law from the ob.
r jeflion of unconftitutioßality. I {hall not
, resort to any other parts of that instrument
1 for fuccoflr, but will offer l /orae further con.
i fiderations to support and maintain that iu
- terpretation.
The States of America form a complete
fovereigrr nation,, in their unitedLc«t..sicir ,
s several capacity ; moTl especially in "their
e relations with foreign powere and so eign
-3 ers. There caa be no complete sovereignty
- without the power of removing aliens; and
the exercise of such a power is inseparably
n incident to t :, e nation The faluspopull,*
.8 which is the supreme law requires it. It is
a power necessary for the protection of the
i. people in their properties, liberties and
lives. If the terms ef the constitution were
is less explicit than we find them in granting
to Congress the power " to protest each of
t, the dates from invasion," on this principle
l, !t might reasonably be contended that the
h power was veiled in Cangrefs to remove a
:, lieas. Upon the present occasion, I recur
it to this principle only to corroborate the in
terpretation which has been given of the
le fourth feftion of the fourth article, that if
U any doubts may remained as to its cor
a re&nefs they may be dispelled. It proves
ill that the interpretation of the express word!
ijp is confouant to the rea/ba, Jpirit, and intent
K- of the constitution, and therefore mutt he
■— Should mw fcdim„„g l r
m tions be fufficient to prove, farisfaftorilv" '
le that the government of the United States
le were authorised to pass the alien law, they
<el wtll obtain the *nd for wheh they have
ir been written. But let them not be mifun
c- derflood ; they are not to be twderftood
>. to establish the do<3rine that each state may
y not expel or remove such aliei<s a3 it may
•d deem necessary for its particular fafety. The
h government of the United States may ex
le ercifc the power of removing aliens, danger.
Ie ous to the general fafety ; and each state
c- may exercise a like power over aliens dan
ill gerous to itfelf, These powers are not in
in compatible in practice. This, I hope, will
i, not be controverted, when we attend to the
" a&aal state of things in Virginia. A law
a is now in force, in our state, passed in the
r- year 1792, which enafts, " that it lhall and
ie may be lawful for the governor, with tbe
:s advice of the council of Itate, to apprehend
and fccure, or cause to be apprehended and
ie secured, or compelled to depart this common
is wealth, all suspicious persons, biiirig the fub
es jests of any foreign power or state, who (hall
to have made a declaration of war, or adlually
id commenced hostilities against the the laid
it states, or from whom the Prejident of the Uni
rn ted States Jhall apprehend hojlile designs againjl
>n the said Jlates, provided information thereof
:n Jhall lave been previoujly received by the execu
id tive from him, and ia all such cases the go.
er veraor, with the advice of the council or
>n state, shall, and he is hereby empowered to
nt fend for the person and papers of any foreign
r- er within this state, in order to obtain such
:n information as he shall judge necessary."
a " All Iheriffs and gaolers shall receive such
in suspicious persons, whom by warrant from
ile the govertor, they (hall be commanded to
re receive, and them ia their prifoss or custody
es to detain or transport out of the common
to wealth, as by such warrant may be com
ur manded."
h- Between the alien law of th« United States
to and this law of the state of Virginia, there
:h is no collision. Their aim and policv is, in
>n principle, the fame ; and the latter is no
more a violation of the constitution of the
n- state, than tire former violation of the con
h- ftitution of the United States. Each is a
of like conftitotional ; and of the two the Vir
of ginia law is the moil arbitrary,
bo Here we behold an example set by Vir
ra- ginia for the removal of suspicious aliens out
>r- of its territory, and the United States have
•e- done no more than authorised by their law,
to the removal of fufpe&ed aliens out of the
u- territory of the United States. Here we find
nts a legillative proviGon made by our own
<a- ila'e for compelling to depart the commoti
on "'ealth all suspicious perfor.s, ftibje&s of a
.ft foreign power, from whom the president of
ud the United States, ft ill apprehend hostile
in tiefigns against. the said dates, provided in
icn formation thereof stall have been previously
on received by the executive from hint. This
•J law of the state ia in aid of the proteftion
3 er which the United States are bound to afford
t0 to each state, against invasion or domestic in
t(,s farreftion ; and therefore it ii cot__deroga
uf. * oiteiy ot ihe people.Tory of or ipconilAcnt with, the ve
iled in the gea- ral government. - As th:
United Stages and r«,;ii state may call out
the militia of (We to fupprtfj an inftir.-e.*}-
ion each state refprclively, >*° 'he United
States and each state may exercise the power
of removing aliens out ot each state refped
ively. I" these cases there may be a con
currence of power for the fame end the fafe
ty of the people. ...
Nor from these obfervitions is it to be
inferred, that if congress have a power to
remove aliens out of tiie United States in a
summary way, they have the like pp er to
r-".ioye citizens. A ci.izen is a P art y to
the social compaft, which has conferred on
him certain rights of which he may not be
arbitrarily depriv.d, but an alien is not a
member of the f ciety ; -among these a
citizen has a right to remain in the territo
ry of the United States, un e s he commits
an olfence for which that right is t rfeite |
by law ; and if charged with such offence, i
he would be entitled to a speedy trial by an
impartial jury, as in other cases. The ci
tizens conlequentl/ have no caufc of ifqui
etude in confequ-nce either of the law ot
congress or of the law f Virginia, author
ising the removal of alien:
Having made ihele explanations, I shall \
detain you no longer on the conftitutionali '
ty of the allien law, which f hope has been
Ihewn to your entire lati'faction. That it
has produced very beneficial effects in
ftrengiheniiig our coun'ry at thi perilous
time, will scarcely be doubt'd.—ln coi fe
qnence of it a grcitt many alien Frerchmen,
and among them the notorious emilla y
have left America, from a ear
tliai it be executed on them. They
wete confciotis t-• at they wpuld, if in their
power, join toe standard of France when
ever it should be erefied within our territo
ry ; a*d they reasonably concluded it was
fafeft and moll convenient for thsm to go
immediately out of ourcountry before they
, WCrexrrJorni.
This, my felrvw citizens, ~is a candid
view of the alien law, which has given oc
casion to so much clamour among us, and
which some of yon, from the mifreprefenta
tiou made of it in the Albemarle remon
strance, might be induced to reprobate as a
violation of our invaluable constitution.
The appeal is made to you,— Does it afford
any jutl canfe of complaint ? On the con- !
trary is it not a new proof of the vigilance 1
and wifdoin of Congress anxious to protect
our favoured country from foreign inva
fien ?
VIRGINTENSIS.
ADDRESS
Of the Lord Mayor of Loudon,
to thi Livery.
Sir Richard Carr Glyn, being invested in the
Insignia of Office, came forward upon the Hun
tings and addressed the Livery to the following
' effeit :
" Gentlemen of the Livery,
You have done me the honor to place me
in the high and dignified fitnation of Lord May
the most important which" ~tTiVl:itizen«%P
d<?n can beftow —-a situation ot the highett trust
and greatest confequente. For this mark of
your confidence and esteem, I have to return t»
yon my grateful thanks. When I firt deter
mined to accept a magifteriil office in this city,
I had no obje<S of ambition in my view, and my
only motive was, a sense of duty to my coun
try, and a deSre to join in tfcs conduct or' a good
government ; with this feeling, I have given up
a great part of'my time and attentionto the pub
lic duties of a niagiftrate ; and I cannot help
lamenting that this obligation w*iich I feel bear
ing upon me, and which compels me to take
my (hare of public toil, is not more properly
felt, than .it is by merchants and other principal
gentlemen in this city. I have, however, con
tented to take an aftive part in public affairs ; iu
doing so, 1 am aware I must, for the next year
renounce all inclination to pri»ate indulgences,
■ in order to dedicate my time and attention to
the public service of my fello>v citizer.a j and
tbis I lhall readily do in the present anxious state
ef public affairs—a (late which demands, of
every man, every exertion he is able to make,
and sf which the public Hand in need. It (hall
be the firft object of my attention to watch over
and to preserve the peace and tranquility of this
city.; and then to secure the property, and pro
tea the persons of my fellow sitizens ; and (
have earnestly to reqtiaft of you, gentlemen,
and also of all other the inhabitants of this great
city, to lend your best afliftance when called for
in aid of the civil power. I have now served
the city of London, in a magisterial station, for
eight years. I h»>pe I know the privileges of
this ancient city. I know that to the preserva
tion ot thete privileges, is to be imputed your
great advantages and immense power, and
and which,can con inue only while the City
Rights are unimpaired. Your pre-eminence,
and the pre-eminence of this country, will con
tinue whde the choice of your corporation, and
of the other corporations of the kingdom re
main pure an I upright. Gentlemen, I trad,
that at the head of my magisterial office, I (hall
return to you the privileges of the cty undi
minilbed, unimoaired and unaltered ; fixed ind
determined as I ani to do that which is honour
able as a man, and that which is jull as a ma
giSrate j and I trust that my errors will never
be rmputed to >h e heart, but will be regarded
among those failings that every man, more or
. ' ls ''able to. I hap; I know how to appre
ciate your good opinion. I trust that my afli
du.ty ,n your service will secure its continuance
and I flatter myfelr I (ball never lose your confi
aence and good upinion."
This fpesch was followed by great appUufe.
TEN DOLLARS REWA,<D~
laft night, ■ s eC ond time, fro™
the Marine Camp, DaviJ Z.ufcr. a fife-._
He had wncn he went away, a plain bluejacket and
vest.light blu'Overalls, a round hat,which tedbe.n
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in hi« fitd defrrtion, and a pair of new flioes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.d- hair"
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper tip
MUiiack is fti 11 fore from a flogging he got a few
days ago H; may be difcovcred by h.s fifeinr
at he plays extremely well.
W. W. BIMROWS Major Com. of the '
- Corns
Tlx time of an sffli-ve
BLACK BUY,
WHO is about sixteen years old, and has siva
years to serve, to be disposed of He is
■••••ell -cquainted with the bufiniis of a farm, and
fcandy at cooking or waiting in the h<uf ■. in
quire at the elHcc of tti. Gazette.
n0v.,6 tO2W
Bp t|)ts Dap's
NEW-YOUK, Nfov.-m'jer
FROM FRANC^.
Captain Brown, of th; brig American
Hcto, arrived yrfterday in 6p. Jays from
Nantz, has favored us witi frcnch papers
to the 19th of September, from <rhrch we
translate the f Howing articles. At the
' time captam B. failed, the (hips Bacchus
' and O' eida, both of and for litijadelphia,
I were laying at Brest.
5 " T(\' v -
NANTE", September tB.
e The Republican Frigate La Precieufe
a has taken in the road of VilJc the
H Raymond and the Woodcott, reffels be
longing to the Eall India Company, who
s loft at the fame time the burnt by
j accident. The loss fn these three-reffels is
| eftimatedat 1,200,000 Francs.
II They write from Conftanee, 7th Frti&i
dor. " the Lake fioni which <n»r city takes
its name has for some d 1 y3 past prefeuted a
noy. I fight. Mre than jooo men, colleft
ed from differnt parts >< " ,ry.TU ? have ad
. vanced in barks an-? 1 batteaus as far as the
; m. Idle of the Lake, an ; here t>avf solemnly
! sworn allegiance to the M Tvetic Conttitu-
J , tion."
Mr. Hamilton has arrived about a month
fince at London, a? en-; >v esiraordinary
from the United States—He if c;:*ircly de
voted to the' party , f 'reii • r.t Adams, and
'' i cha'ged by him t > draw yet closer the fa-
tal bands by which the Ainerx'an govern
ment is enchained in a dependence on Eng-
land.
r 1 Mr. Hamilton, from his superiority of
talents and knowledge, will render hiinfelf
j very dangerous enemy.
ExtraS of a letter from Citizsn Savary,
Chief of the Naval Jivi/tin, to the Min'tf
ter of Marine in the road of H n yciii, river j
of Bourdeaux.
I ' " I hasten to announce to you my return
to France, after having dffembarked in the
" ; Bay of Kiltumen, in Ireland, the troops of
the republic, whom I had the charge of
1 transporting—l bring in return some Eng
' lifh prisoners, part of the garrison of the
i town of Killala, whom some French gren
" j adiers under the orders of general Sarrafin
captured whilst the landing was taking place
I cannot dcfcribe to you the order and
enthusiasm of the soldiers in diferabarking.
They were so many heroed.
The day following, the 6th, there was a
rencontre, in which General Humbert beat
the enemy, who had an hundred men killed
and considerably mere wounded. The 7th
was to be a new day of Glory for the
c French.-.—My brave companions and my
felf, regret that we were obliged to prepare
3 to fail by the approach of bad weather.
We have yet some prisoners to bring over.
. At my departure 1500 Irrfhmen had joined
. us, and were organized ; 20.000 waited for
f ..
, BALTIMORE November 27.
The papers we recejyed by the mail are
| not only few, but the flioft barren of any
that came to our haiads for many months,
I This, it is expected, w [|l frocn the nfual
, indulgence of 6«r patrons, be a fufficient
- apology for the barrinnefa of this day's
» Gazette.
; [Fhefe Editors "are <J»firinually insulting
■ us, by dwelling W: ibe barrenaefs «f our 1
j Gazettes, After aIK slurs revert up
. on themselves ; for co those who have an 1
> opportunity of making comparisons, it must '
r appear evident that the Baltimore papers 1
- are wholly supported in eleven months out '
j of the twelve, by from other pa- !
; pers, and principally those of Philadelphia.] 1
| NORFOLK, November 20.
In the Cygnet arrived 39 seamen, being
part of the crews of the
Brig Ruby, Bartlet, of Newbury port,
Brig Eflex, Tate, New York, j
Schooner Nancy, Stevens, New York, j
Schooner Charlotte, Strong, Portland', <
Schooner Clarifla, Ryan, Old Yark, <
Sloop Julia. Green, Eaft-Fladden, 1
Who were taken prisoners and confined
in jail, loaded with heavy irons ; the allow
ance for each 24 h 'urs was two ounces of 1
lotten fait lifh, and a small loaf of bread di
vided betwees three persons.
Not having seamen fufficient to work '
their privateers, Vi&or Hugnes compelled
the Americans by force to go on board '
them. Ihe above Americans were fortu
nate enough to make their escape f om on
board a privateer that put into St. Tho- "
mas's, and were rendered every assistance by
captain Blakewell, who generously gave
them a paflage home.
The schooner Hannah, captain Smith,
arrived here yelhrday from Antigua, via 1
Angudla. Three days bofore capt. S. left ?
Antigua 16th Oft.) forty American *
prisoners, upwards of twerity of whom c
were matters ai,;l ma of vessels, arrived f
there from Guadeloupe in a cartel. It C
seems they were liberated on parole, in coa
equtnee of difpatclies brought to Guada- 3
supe by a French frigate from France.— f
apt. bmith infcirms that they have all got '
pa nag s home.
f. ?" ' h L. e 'r 6t , h i in ht - 3 2 ' long- 74, i
iphke the Aurora, Noble, from 1
lorti,la to New-York, all well '
fW £ U 7, 6 - ,0n S- 6 5- fpokethe
P Sa %' . frc : m Tortola to NcW-London-
Liite from Cape Francois.
Yesterday also arrived the brig Mermaid,
Capt Canby, , 7 days from Cape Francois.
™ ti,at about t e 24th
nt. an a«ion toon, phce at Fort D uohin,
between th* inliabitar.-.t of t! ,t plact and »
body of 1 ouhaint's troops, under the com
7 7
mand of his Nephew-ton the arrival of t'>e i
news at the Cape £en. Heaouville ifiued a
Proclamation offering a reward for the head (
of Touflaint's nephew. Three days after- j
wards, vi*. on th? 27th. gen. Tauffaint j
appeared before Cape Francois with all his i
black troop?, and Tent in a flag with orders j
for gen. Hedouvil e and the white troops to
embark immediately and leave the island,
this was conplicd with, a«d on the joth the
3 fr gates laying at that place put to sea
with the whole of them. capt. Cauby wa9
embargoed rill after their departure, and also •
itjforinMhat it was generally under flood at |
the Cape, that gen. Touffaint would in a
few day dectare tbe Island Independent.
Some boOrs after capt. «,'anby was out, was
boarded by a British 74 and a frigate an
officer from whom informed him that tbe
Frenchmen had escaped them.
November 22.
On Tuesday arrived the fehooner Charm
ing Betsey, captain Connoway, 18 days
from Kingston (JamsyeaJ bound to Balti
more. Capt. C. has favored us with a few
papers but we fee nothing in them, except
the following :
KINGSTON Oftober 30.
Yesterday arrived at Port Royal, the
French cartel fehooner L'Efperance, capt.
Enofair, with the following pafTengers tak
en in the brig Sifters from New-York
to this port, and 17 seamen and 7 servants.
Miss Gurdon, capt. Hamilton, Dr. Ander
fon, Dr. Dawfon, Mr. M'Lean, Mr. Fra
zer, Mr. Mustard, and Mr. Boyle.
The Sifters left \'ew \»ork the 24th Au
gust, was captured the 30th ult. and carri
ed i:ito Port-de-P«ix.
One of tbe ferv.nts taken in the Sifters,
on his arrival at Port-de-Paix. joined the
Brigands. ■*
His majeuy's (hip Serpent, capt Roberts,
arrived yefter ay at Port Royal from a
cruize, w'tli the following prizes :
A small French fehooner boat of 4
fwiveb.
American fehooner Betsey, of Baltimore,
that had been taken by the above privateer.
American Iwhooner Liberty, of Charles
ton, (under cartel colours) from Jeremie
to Port au-Prince, with provisions and wine.
A French lady and two servants were on
boaad.
Xf)e (M3tttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER *9.
——
Extraß of a letter from Cadiz, Sept, tj, 1798.
'* Although lord St. Vincents ftifl continues
off this Bay, we fee A merican veflels enter al
mofl every day, and this bypermiflion. It is
also very certain that the French are very much
at a loss what course to (leer with refpeifl ta the
Americans j there have been inflances of their
system of iniquity being modified in favor of
the American prizes, so that at this moment the
Amerisan flag is more refpedled than any other.
l,.BpjL£P heaven that the people of America
i heir government, finceT riowT wituefs the rap
id efte<& it has had to raise the American cha
v t° ' he ° f P oor tumbled Europe.—
Vet I am convinced from good authority that
the French fti|l build fame hopes on a reviving
;)arty in America, and they are very induftrioHs
in lpreading reports here to that effetf. Nay,
the very Spanilh minilter in Paris has just in
formed his government here that the direilory
had received certain information from America
•>fr the French having recovered thtirfu
penority, the probab liry of which 1 have for- 1
mally and pofitivtly denied. I forbear mention I
nig my owufufpicions concerning the source of !
this pretended intelligence. It is well known
thatthe infamous Login and the weak, ungrate
k-ozfeiulko.have arrived in Paris. There are
two things which I find to be contfnual oHefls
of mlihke among theEurcpeans intheir opinions
and judgment ef American affairs.—Firjl, they
never know how to appreciate the trueAmeucan i
in.ereft fothat it is almost impossible to make
th-tn underfland that America raav refill i
French without fubmittmg to Englifb influence : 1
Secondly, They are almolt incapable of forming 1
a just idea of the kind of Gratitude which
America owes France on account of her affi
ance in the late war. On these two topics 1
have always found it difficult or impossible to ar
gue my opponents into conviilion without ex
cepting many men of talent, and underftandinr
m other relpedts. But the spirt of enquiry
which is now gene ally awakened, resetting
e,riean affVirs will soon place things in their
:rue light.
At present it is supposed the hero of the erand
nitioji will begin defending the hill of capri
:.o.is fortune. He is by ,11 accounts in a very
derperate flruationat prefer.: with his army who
ire continually harraffed by the native. and mud
iow be in want of evety thrng without hopes of
tommnnication with the mother country."
The tide of popular opinion is 9very
where bearing: down that graceless patvio
tifm, which seeks aggrandizement in the
propagation of principles, at once obfeene,
anarchical, and blasphemous. While the
lappy reverre this creates in the fitua
uon of such men as Baldwin and other de
pravid devotees to the enemies of tbeir
country, will be attributed by forne to fic
klenefs.pf temper, let us hope it is founded
on a fulid and rational reform in the princi
ples and opinions of the people. The fen
timentsof these men towards Fiance might
have been tolerated ten years ago, but they
are now become treasonable Every man
mull at times change his principles, or be
ieft in the vocative.
Notwith(landing all tbe pains taken by
France and her emifTaries to eradicate from
tociety, all those old-fafhiored attachments
to truth, honor, virtue and country, which
are the sole basis of social institutions. and
notwithstanding the funereal progress (he
■a* made elsewhere in this work of deftruc
I' oo , it appears that in this country, men
obstinately retain their native predileftions.
liar, a thief, a fwindlet, or a toward will
meet after all with much more difficulty in
getting an appointment here than in France.
Tliofc violent and horrid methods emjdy
; led by the French to recruit their srmies,-
J J have refn'ted. asmijjht be expelled, in an
1 ( immense diminution of their population. It
- jis fnpoofed tlrtrc are at this moment in
t | France, thirty women to one man. Birbe
1 1 Marbois, describing their cruel requisitions
s j ui human beings for (laughter, inveighed
3 with bitterness against the prolongation of
, that delusive war, which in the midst of
? triumphs, mowed down the flower of the
1 1 rench youth ; that dolorous war, which
3 came to search even in their cradles, for in
> fants to enregifter on the lifts of requisition.
t ( It was not to the purpose of the dominant I
i party to ltften to his voice, x and they sent
. him away to perish amidst burning lands,
s and fparklinp (l<ics.
; So immense is the number ef natural
children in France, in consequence of the
depraved (late of fuciety in that country,
- that the wife and magnanimous rulers of j
s the Great Nation, find themselves obliged to
- make public provision for them, and to find
p them nurses. The number of the r e is so
t great, that their pay amounts to 338 672
livres. But being always kept in arrears,
tbe infants are continually left to perish in
: great numbers. Of 263 new-born infants,
sent on* the ill Vendemaiie (23d Sejit.)
- to the single Hospital of St. Nicholas, 234
i (larved to death.
Public expectation waits on tip toe for
the result of the deliberations of that august
aflemblage which now graces the city by
. its presence. 'lt seems to be a thing of ge
- t'eral expe&ation, however, that the Provi
sional Army will be raifrd and appointed,
, forthwith. In the mean time, what further
e measures may be resolved on, as >0 the orga
nization and employment of this-foftre, fur
, niflies field for various and multiplied con
a jefture.
j. The number qf bastards in France has a
mounted to eighty-twi» thousand five hun
, dred per annum for the last four years, and
. is supposed to be on the increase. Of these
- thitteen-fourteenths ftgrve to death.
The r-quifitiqns of the French imposed
1 upon their own deluded vassal , have per
haps exceeded those extorted from other
; countries. And thus have the citizens of
the all-conquering Republic atlially been j
compelled to submit tonhe wo feconcomi
■ tant of cor.quest. A large quant ty of cat
tle stolen by government, or in otler words,
" taken r.y requisition" from the inhabitants
of Finifterre, and which they hive never
been able to get pay for, to this lay, after
repeated applications, reduced great num
bers of them to beggary and mife-y.
The following passage in Mil on, seems
, pecu'iarly applicable to the Great Nation,
1 or nation of Great Villains, and what is re
markable, contains some of the moll prom
. inent and noxious of their cabalillical terms.
It is to be hoped the latter part may prove
prophetical.
£. C?f proud ambitious heart, who aot content
Will arrogate dominion undeferv'd'
Over his brethren, and quite difpoflefs
Concord, ahd law of nature from the earth,
; Hunting.(and men not beatts (hall be his game)
! With war and hostile snare such as refufc
Subje&ion to his empire tyrannous ;
I A mighty hunter* thence (hall hebe ftyl'd,
Before the Lord, as in despite r.f heaven,
Or from hea!ven claiming f/cond fov'ranty ;
And from rebellion lhall derive his name,
Though of rebellion others he accuse
| He, with a crew, whom like ambition jo'rjs
■ : With him or under him to tyrannize,
j Marching from Eden tow'rds the tvejl, (hall find
The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge
Boils out from under ground, to him aa Hell.
* Grande Nathn.
In the ordinary affairs of life as in the
! sphere of science, nothing is more charafter
iftic of mental imbecillity than a pertinacious
1 adherence to a tenet, which, both by the
j illulltations of resfom'ng and the opinion us ,
the ivorlit, has been declared absurd and an
tenable. The mind that is not c pable of '
receding from error, can poflefs no confci
oufnefß of truth. Thus we daily perceive,
that men of a liberal c3ll of mind, who for
mcrly, from the impuilion of particular bir
cumllances, or from temporary enthuliafm,
, adored Frettchmeti and French conduct, are
universally falling of from their behved, and
becoming jrood domestic citizens ; while the
poor infatuated fouls, whole minds are not
their own, and who b.lieve from the inftinft
of prejudice, persist in their dclulion, and
thereby hourly render themselves the Jupes
of political jugglers and the derifian of the
world. '
MARRlED—Yefterday morning at Friends ,
Meeting in Pine-street, Dr. Wistario Eli- '
zabfth Mifflin, daught#r of George Mif
flin, deceased.
New Jersey, by the Rev. Mr. Crocs, kn- 1
sha Clark, Esq. of Woodbury, to Miss
Eloi sa Clark, of Glocefter.
FIRE!
Between the hours of 12 and 1 o'clock
this morning, a fire broke out in a dillillery
fi'uated in the Northern Liberties. By the
timely interference of the citizens it was
prevented from doing any material damage.
We have not learnt whether this fire o
riginated in accident or design. But in a
city infefted as ours, with gangs of United
Irijhmen, it is difficult to tell what is to
preserve us from general conflagration.
From the hicw-Tori Daily AJvertifer. . 1
About three weeks ago, an Irish infur- '
gent who had been obliged to quit his coun- 1
try rather abruptly during the last fnmmer
came to this Office, and wifhtfd to have in
serted a notice that he had arrived in Ame
rica, and purposed in the Unfiling week to
visit his friends in Philadelphia. It is
scarcely neceflary to fay, that this was not
complied w th. During a conversation
which the Editor had with this gentleman ;
/ fcH-' " r vv
,/ 4
* ft
' • • .• . t I?*,,
- and which was ciefignedly prolonged, In or
der to make, if poilible, loma difcoverit»,
he was informed by this foreigner, that he,
was well known in every part of the conti
nent, and that lu's arrival was rather llsej
pe&*d to his friends. Perhaps this jnci»
dent tmy" explain the cause of the meeting
of United liifhmen which is called in Phila
delphia—the. times require a vigilance and
energy, that indolent or Shallow minds arc
not aware of.
Boflun November 22.
Direst from the Mediterranean.
Arrived at Gloucciter, veilerday after
noon, the brig Aligator, Capt. William, in
40 days.from Malaga. Capt. W. confirms
the account which we gave on the 12th inft.
of the total defeat of the Toulon fleet.
The amount of particulars which he brings,
could not be corrcdtly afcertaincd ; but a 9
the veflel is destined /or this port, it is pro*
table a few hours wHI enable us to come at
particulars that shall completely fatwfy the
doubtful.
dgtariue fLlfk.
The brig from Bourdeaux, said to < b ? be
low, failed from thence the 26th of Sep
tember-
Netv-Ynrh November 28.
Brig Sally, Elkins Copenhigen
American Hero, Brown, N ntz
Schr. Weflcott, Tortols
Sloop Sally, French, Tortol*-
Sailed under convoy of the ship Sally, of
JBeverly, capt. Hendrick, 16 guns, and 20
men , the ship Enterprize of Saltm, capt.
Ofmore, 1 2 guiii and 24 m<-n ; ship
capt. Webber, of Billon, 16 guns, and 20
men—having 7 fjil of American vefTels be
longing to different parts of the continent
under convoy.
Arrived the Hope, capt. from
Marti' ique, Saihd the 23d of ( *£tjber in
company with 100 fail of Engjifh, and 60
fail cf American'viflels ; among them were
Ship John, of Philadelphia , brig Dtake,
of Portsmouth, do Kuty, do— > ltrul, Pro.
vidi net ; ship Nancy N w London—do.
George and jane, Huntingdon—do. Beifey
of Salem j do Nanry, of Providence ; Jo
Sally of Salem , (loop , Charletton ' t
fchr. Hiram, Forifmouth ; do. D wfieldj
New i ondon ; sloop J ''in, New Port.
Cannon at Auction.
ON SATURDAY,
•The Ift Dec. at 11 o'clock, on the
next Wharf below Pine Street,
IVILL SR. SOLD ST AUCTXO V,
Far approved itidorfed Notes, at 60 Days,
5 Caronades
7 Long sou: 9, fit for stern chafers
7 Double fortified fours.
FOOTMAN £s* Co. auctioneers.
nnv 29 dts
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands again ft
the estate of the late William Clir-row,
dece»fed,and who hava not already produced their
their accounts, are requeflad t® fend them to the
fubferiber at no 174, north Second street.
r.k-1 j , , BI,!IAB ®TH TDCKER, Adm'x
- HOV. 29 1798 m&th 4 w
Por Sale,
TUB SHIP
gPjjji ALEXANDER,
rSS£: - -W "tyfrrtuil A r -<V,
biji< 1 MtiN about 1000 barrels; an excellent
live-oak and c*dar iiuilt veffe); four years old •
fail# ramarkably fa!», and 11 now ready to receive
a Car o 'o. I prly to
John White sides Es? Co.
VTark-t street, ,iov. 28 dfit
Horse Infirmary and Hofyital,
NFAR IK« PUBLIC SQUARE, tHiLADE LPH IA .
i. Swanjl, with the greatest
rjfpcdt and moll :hanks for jv,m favors,
in'ornis the public that his pretnifesare a<;ain open
and lU uotnnle'r repair, for the reception ofjki,
lame an ! diftufed borfes : and 'he flatters himfelt the
fatislaction he hashith rto g<ven in his profellion,
riuting three ye irs tiefiuejfcc in this city, will en
fur:? him their future favcrs.
B.— I his is the fcafon for breakii.g, neck
ing, creppiag &c. &c.
" 0T - *0- sot
PLANS
For payment of a tribute to France,
Are now for sale at William Yonng's Book
and Stationary flare. dols. cts.
D' Antooi's treatile on Gm: powder and
fire arms, and artillery fervite, plates, 4
Mailer's field engineer with plates 1 75
Attack, and defence, 'he 4th edition e*.
larged by Lardman, with a new me
thod of mining, platrs 3
Treatifeof artillery, to which is added a
theory of Gun-powder, applied to fire
arms a +
Supplement, containing the true proje<S
ile, £ v
L'artillerie Raifonni, par Ie Blond, 3
tome, planches &
TheoriedelaguerreparMazeroy r planehes 1 35
Rei :'s present fyltemof militarydilcipline
London printed, 1798, I 50
Regulations lor the or v ler and difciplineof
the troop* oftht UHited States
General White's military system for the
New JerLy cavalry 33
The American trooper's pocket compa
nion by Parifet
A treatlfe on th« new sword enercif; 45
No-w in the Prefs t '
Articles of War—SteubenN .regulations with
plates, exhibiting the manual exercise.
Nov. 23
Mails for South-Carolina iff Georgia,
PACKETS are now provided for carry inx the
Public mailsby water between Philadelphia,
and Charleston. They wiff leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The post by land will be enntinu-
I ed twice a week until an experiment i« made in
regard to the expedition and regularity of tke
packets. If any person chufes to have their
letters sent by land only, they will pleas? to
write the word Land upon the letters : ortier
wife thev will be sent By that conveyance which,
will firfl start after the letters are left in the
poft-effire.
Joseph Hnberjham,
PoJl-MaJler Gemerl.
Philadelphia, Xugujl 13, 1798. £Imported,
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty,
from Hjubdrgh.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefiai
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed l icks, &c.'
For Sale ty
GEORGE PENNOCX.
no. 103 Market-street.
no* ao $•
FOR SjL£,
To be EXCHANGED for property withifc thirty v
miles of the city, or to let on ground-rent foreYer
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M, Biddle. ne. 14?, Chefout
ftreec.
Nov. it 5
A Coachee & Pair of Hor/es.
FOUSALE,
On * £ A'SOKAB LE
A COACHEE and pair «/ Hori'e», they may
be seen at John Dunwoody's For
teims Jpply at No. 96, Arch-street.
nov 11 •
AS the A fie (Tors appointed by the Gommiffioners of Pennfyl
vama by virtue ofthe aft to provide for the valuation of Land* and Dwelling
Monies, and the enumeration of Slaves within the United States, will in a few days be
gin to take the returns or I.fta of property agreeably to the directions of the said aft
It has been deemed advisable to publilh the following extrafts from the InJlruSions of the
Commiffinnera to the AfTtffors, and also the Forms in which the r. urns or Ms of pro
petty made fubjtft to valuation and enumeration are to be made for the information of
the cit'zens of this ftate—lt is to be observed that the property is by the aforefaid aft fe
derated into three d.ftmftc affe.-the*tfi. to conGft of " Every Dulling Houfeabove
the value of one hundred dollars with the out houses thereto appurtenant and the lot on -which
such dwelling hwfc and out houses are ere3ed not exceeding two acres in any cafe" The fe
eon a is to eon I ill of - all lands and town lots, (except lots on which dwelling houses above
t! ? c va " c of on ® hundred dollars, with their appurtenances, are erected as aforefaid) with
alt buddings and other improvements of whatever kind thereon (except Duelling houses above
the value ,f one hundred dollars, and the out.houses appurtenant thereto.) And the third is
to COfl.lt of " All Jlaves, whether Negroes, Mulattos, or Mejlixoes, above the are of
t wlvc and under the age of fifty yea,s, which are to be enunerated in the assessment Jifh.a in
w l'-ch they may rcfpeitively he kept or employed, at the time f the enumeration, except such as
j'omjrxed infirmity or bodily ffabihty may be incapable of abor : And it is provided « that
all property of whatever i,nd coming within any of the foregoing defections, and belonging to
the I ntied States or any State or premancntly exempted fron taxation by the laws of the Jlate
Zationf™' b * rftUaUitr t°M eJ > l < exempt from the aforefaid valuation and
The Extracts font the Intrusions art as follows :
c™ m ¥ irn " ent M r - ft J lrC t0 mcetto £ ctker > # fueh time and place as
Slaves in your af
proreed through vour rcfpceiive diviliorls and rrZTj n / P - rp m "^ wlthout
l,g Land. or Slaves, or hiving the 7 P ,°r 7 ° •
tt:» lift*. fireeitvinp in nnc l.ft th*i n tu « / management thereof, ta deliver fcperate writ
6lavw, owned, poflefiod, or J"-^ othe />.^
tri>sl of this State, or of any other State, defignaiing the State, County, Parilh, Townlhip or
Town, as the cafe may be s where the property lies, and making separate lifts as aforefaid of the
property in each afleflment diftriiA if known, but if that it not known to the party making the lift
or return, as accurate an account of the place where ike property lies, as it in his, her, or their
power, uiuft b« exhibited.
All lifts mull fpecify, in refpedl to Dwelling-Houses th«ir situation, dimensions or area, their
number of ftoriee, the r.ureber of their windows, the materials whereof ihev are
tmiiv—hsrccrwoou, nrick orStone, the number, description and dimenQons of the Outhonfes
appurtenant to them, and the names of their occupant*. And in refpedl to lands mult fpecify
the quantity of each separate Trail or Lot, the number, description and dimensions of all Wharves
and buildings thereon (except Dweliing-Houfes above the value of one hundred dollars, and the
Outhouses appurtenant thereto) and the name of the owner or occupant. And in relpefl to
Slaves must fpecify the number above the age of twelve and under the age of fifty years, owned
or pofleTed by or under the care of each pei son, with the name of such person. And if any of
the foregoing property is claimed as entitled to exemption under the aforefaid adl, the circum
ftanees whereon the claims reft mud be fpecified.
To facilitate the making out lifts or returns, the forms numbered I, a, and 3, have been de
, vised.
If any perfun fliould not be prepared to exhibit written lifts when required, and (hall be wil
ling to disclose alt his property, made fubjed to valuation and enumeration as aforefaid, in such
cafe, it is the duty of the afleflor io maks such lifts, which being diftinaiy read and consented to,
fliall be received as the lifts of such person.
When lifts or returns are made of*property lying out of this state, the netefliry alterations in
hei-ling the lifts are to be made.
The following claffifv ation and distribution of property into numbers 1 and a, have been deem
ed conformable to thefpirit and intention of the law. In No. 1, or the-clafsot Dwelling-Houf
js, are to be comprized all Dwelling-Houses, with the Outhouses appurtenant thereto, and the
Lot 0.1 which rhey are built, not exceeding two acres in any cafe, which exceed one hundred dol
lars in value. By Outhouses appurtenant, is to be understood, Kitchen, Walh.houfe, Wood
houfe, Ice-house, Coach, or Carriage-house, Stable, Brew house and Bake-haufe, if for family
use, and generally ill buildißgs with the oeconomy of house-keeping only, and nor
for the purpose of carrying 011 any profeflional business, trade, or mechanic art, or to promote
husbandry, and consequently to bring in revenue to the occupant j unless buildings of the latter de
scription ihould be so lituated on lots that they cannot with a part of the lot, be separated from
the Dwclling-Houfe, without injuring the value j in which cafe as they are not to escape valuation,
theymuflgo with the Dwelling-House : and though the lot to be valued with the Dwelling-
Hcitfeand appurtenances must in no cafe exceed two acres, yet it need not contain more than the
ground os which the Dwelling-House and appurtenant buildings or outhouses are a<£lually ereift
ed, and what maybe nectffary, for the convenient occupancy of the fame.
in No. a, is to be comprized all Lands and Townlots (except lots on which Dwelling-Houses
with their appurte:ianccs above the value of one hundred dollan are erefled as aforefaid) all
Wharves, Stores, Ware-houses, Shops, Offices, Sugar-heufes, BiSilleries, Breweries and Bak
eries, if carried on as an occupation, Mills, Forges, Furnaces, or other Iron all kind of
waterworks and generally all such buildings as are used for the purpose of carrying on any profefli
onal business, Trade or mechanic art, or to promote hnfbandry, and consequently all Barns, Stables,
&c. < .1 farms are to be estimated as belonging to this class ; alio unfinilhed buildings, though in
tended for Dwelling-Houles are to be valued in the situation they were in on the firft day of o£\o
-bcr lad, and all Dwelling.Houses which with the outhouses appurtenant thereto, do not exceed
one hundred dollars in value.
111 the ,?d class there can be no difficulty, it comprehends all Slaves, a species of property, of
which, fortunately, there is not much in Pennsylvania.
A fine of net more than 500 dollars, nor left than 100 dollars wjth costs of l'uit, is by law im
posed on anypetfon who (hall deliver or disclose to any afleflor any falfe, or fraudulent lift or re
turn, with intent to defeat or evade the valuation or enumeration directed by law, in which cafe
the aflVflbrs refpc&irely are to make out lifts of such person's property, from the bell information
they can obtain, for which purpose, they are authorizad, to enter into and upon all and Angular
the premits refpe&ively, and from the valuations and enumerations so made, there (hall be no
(ipcial. -
'' fn cafe any person (hall be absent from his place of relidence at the time an afleflor (hall call to
receive his lifts, the afleflor (hall leave a written note or memorandum, requiring him to present
to such afleflor the lift or lifts as aforefaid, within ten days from the date of such note or memo
randum. And if any perfan being required and notified as aforefaid, (ball negleil or refufe to
prefrnt the said lifts within the said ten days, they by law ineur a fine of 100 dollars with costs of
j'uit, except in cafe of (icknelt or absence from home for the whole period from the leaving such
notification to the expiration us ths said ten days ; and in every such cafe, the afleflor in whose
fiih.divifion he or (be resides, together with tome one other afleflor, of the fame diftrirfl, are au
tlioriftd and required to enter into and upon the Dwelling-Houses, Lands and premifesof the per
son so negletfing or refuting, and to make from the belt information they can obtain, and from
their own v ew, such lifts of the said property as is required as aforefaid. And the lifts being fub
irribrd by the afliflors making the fame, (half be deemed as good and fufficieut for the purposes of
the law.
if there are any Dwelling Houses, Lands or Slaves, within your afleflment diftrifl, not owned
or poflcl'ftd by any person rcfiding therein, and no lift of which (hall be transmitted to the prinei-
afleflor ihereof j theafleflbrof the sub-division in which such property lies, (hall by entering
into and upon such Dwelling-Houses, Lands and Lots, and from such information as he can ob
tain, make lifts thereof, and also of all Slaves as aforefaid, agreeably to the forms prefcribedjand
Vvhieh being fubferifced bj ths afleflor making the fame, are to be deemed good and fugkicnt liftj.
JAMES & RICHARD SMI Hi,
HAVE this from the country to
their SIOTRE, No. 54, South Fronr-ftrcet,
where they heve for fj'.e, a* uldal, a and ge
neral alTortment of European and Ead-Ir.dia
D%T GOODS ;
mod ol which have now arrived ami arc landing,
from the different vefleU, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, f.iverpoel ami Hull.
Their CuOomer-; Ky applying will find almost
every article generally importtd, and at as low
prices for calh or credit,as tkey can be had elf«-
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenhergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. i, 1798. dtf
Millenery Room,
No. 136, Market Street.
THREE or four young women who are well ac
quainted with the Millenery business, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed! y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. 16 « §
English wrought Nails.
Imported in the Jhips Molly and Diana, from
LIVER POOL*
400 Calks of &ail«,
CONSISTING of'6d, Bd, iod, ud, and
xod, flat points suitable for the Southern
market 6d, Bd, icd, I2d, andaod, finedriwn
(harps also 9, 3, 4, and 6 clouts—'fprigs—
lucks—feupper nails—flieathmg nails, t?c.
lOR SALE HY, •
Robert Deni/on, junr
iil Market-street.
In Ail c.fct wf;ere t-lic ificC'or* or aaf of them n;ty deem it necelfir y for ifie better
any property, they are nvthorifed to have reference to any rciot*d« or docunnnts and to any returns
or lifts cf afleffmentf taken under the laws of this State, slid generally by all other lawful ways
and means to enquire after and concerning the fan e.
All liilj~areti> be takfii with reference to the fiifl day ftf October and those wnich relate
to property !yin<» out of your aflVjTment diflridt, are to be immediate, to the commif
" Qfinir of your divifmn, in order to be by him to thepJSaclpaljtCefior of the diftri<ft in
wrtvh such property is situated.
The law exempts from valuation and enumeration all property of whatever kind coming with
in any of the foregoing deilriptiofis, »nd beiougingto thr States, or any State, or per
manently exempted from taxation by (lie law* of the State th,e fame may be situated or
poflefl'ed.
The following being such as from immemorial cufiom have been exempted, aF.d abdut which
no doubt can be eiitcitiined, is recommended to be wholly ornlff ed in the returns, viz. Court-
Houics, Public buildings for keeping Records, Churches, Meeting-Hon fc, Pavfonages, and
property attached to Churches and Mctting-Houfes, B»rym£--3Tmfftd«, Ho'lpitals, Alms-Houl
es and Poon Houses, College*, Academies and Sciool-Hetiltss ; 1 here is other pro
perty which mull be exempted but, jtoujSt to be returned wi'h thejcircumflances on which the
claim of exemption is stated founded, for consideration,
( A '■■ *
From the foregoing it may he, seen tfint thole who ctoofe it, may tnake their li3e or
returns of property verbally to the afielTor. Those who incline io to do ought to make
thcmfelves previously acquainted with every circutnftan« they occupy,
superintend, or ought to return, which the law requires they (honld commuricatc to the
affeflbr, and is fpeciiied in the following forms : An atteßitbH te this will pre\t:it mistakes
and save time when the affeflbr calls* j *
'••••' |
No. L
, A; LIST
Or description of each dweiliog houle with the outhoufea appurtenant thereto, and the
lot on which the fame are eredted not exceeding two acres in afoycafr and exceeding in
value the furn of one hundred dollars, which were owiied, pdffefled or occupied on the
firftdayof O&ober, 1798, by in the v in the State of Pennsylvania.
,
-J ol •
Name Maine *3 Oaf- Dimen- Maleri- £ Num- Quantity of Situation Claim of exemption (if
of the of the jji houses lions 01 *1« of her and land in the & adjoin- any) and circumstances
occu- !owner sc'appur- area which u dimeii lot in/* pro- thereof, or, any remarks
pant. I J tenant. huiit fions of— prietors cn the property.
I • "5 j § I win- 1 t>
! p * j t
i -ols as g
cLc u c g.
J 5 LSP |< P.
■I'!"! :
■ I I ' I . . •
No. it
ALI S T
Of ail l.inds, lots, buildings and Starves owned, poffclTVd of occupied on the firft day of
October, 1798, by in in the State of Pcnnfylvania,
excepting only such dwelling houses as with the outhouses apaurtenant thereto and
the lots on which they are eredted, not exceeding two acres in-iny cafe are above the
value of 100 dollars.
r » 3 4 j ~~ 7 7 8 * ~
*5 -5:3
Name | *-| Dim en-Number Quantity of Sikiation & Claims of exemption (if
Name of the § /ions of '3 iefcrtp- lani in eueh adjoining any) and cireumjimnces
of the owner. ;S *o> ~ dwell- tion of 0-trait or totfroprietors thereof or any remarks
cecu- Hi ing tber build- 1 ' oh the property
pant or houses ings and
poJJiJP"' s - I 'B £ : Sj out wharves I
*§ 5 houses. H j
__Lf
■I I 1
kt —m • 1 ixi-
No. 111.
» Inn» * „ M
n , . . 1 , —«*tYiirvarc olt fen
theTfSTDay of OAober, 1798, within
• js •.
in the State of Pennsylvania. .
1 fr, . j . ;iisfrtM i< S
« o «
.. - ' - ? S 1
s:«!|I'-s-' | is
1-^
Nam: of the fuperiHtendant Name oftbt owner.
* -S 2 ft"? 5
i < Sla
I
November 27th, 1798. " j, t
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
.. ' fcribers, on Walnut-ftrcct Wharf,
195 casts of mil* afiorted
ae biles of fail canvafi, from No. 1 to 2
53 casks yellow ochre
' 15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 del. each
M „,, ir , wln „
Tewcnfli do. is hoglhcads and pip
Old Port do. m hhds.
Empty Claret fcoti tes
6 cases of, Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineti Ice.
aflorted forthe Weft»lndiaroarkel
a, 10, andfinchcablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing dates, ink (lands and preffew
jo puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale reaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
Nicklin i*f Griffith.
»pril 7 tu«h&f.rf
FOR SALE,
By George Plumstbd ?
No. >66, Sowth Fkoht Stkiet.
ajo whole Tiercea 1 „ T 0 _
100 half do. sßleE'5 RleE '
35 Boxes white Havanna Sugars, entitled to
drawback .
»)000 pieces Nankeens, do. do.
Anchors weighing i7cwt. and i6cwt.
'l6O boxes containing tea setts of China
35 boxes of blue and white table setts of do.
ALSO,
Boxes containing breakFafl, coffee and e7*«-
ing cups and saucers ; tea pots, cream pots, fa
gar diOies, pint bowls, custard cups, flat and
l'oup plates and dishes.
Young HyfonTea
Fans
Calfia.
"ov. 13 jtawjw
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At tire OFFICE of the GAZETTE of the
United States,
OA. 13. its.
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the fJnp Louisa,
Captaiu Champlin from St. Peter/burg^
CONSISTI NO OF
HEMP and BAR IRON.
In the Jhip Dispatch,
Captain Bcnners, from Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens,
and 3 quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of Jhip Rich
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
an 4 an elegant aflfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordccai Lewis.
Philadelphia, nov, 7 dj W
N 0 TTC~E.
ALL Perfo!i«.indebted to the Eftjte of Wil
liam Beauchamp, latel/ deceased, are de
sired to make immediate payment and thole who
have any chirps agaiuit fy<Wwk«te to produce
thsiraccoilms properly attelted to;
Sam. Price, e-xccutbr.
" ov dim
Ironmongery, QuUa^'i&c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS *
INTENDING to decline BuG*efs,
offer lor sale. *t reduced prifift; h handforoe
assortment ol Irotmongsry, CufltiV, &c. in lots
to suit the purcbal'ei j. r
John'Grcen Co,
No. 16, W«Vth Second flreet.
cO* Ironmongers
Will find the above Ooeds not unworty their
attention.
Nov. tf J.
Imp O R T E D
in the brig Eliza, capt. Peterfonjrtm
Leghorn,
A SMALL QUANTITY UF THE FOLLOWING A».
TICUj,
Bologna crape
Cambricks aflorted
i Silk (lockings
Fans
a few fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets &c. &c. manufa&ure4 at
Lucca
Pots and (licks of pomatum
WaCt-balls, See.
\ a lew jars Gorgona anchovies
a small aflbrtment of Drugs, See.
And in the Louifa y capt. Kean,from
Bordeaux,
80 cases, containing 2 dozen each,
Old Irifl* Claret,
of a superior quality,
40 dozen old Sautume Wine,'
of a superior quality. »
FOR SALE BY
James Latimer, jr.
Nov. ro eodlw
BEE F,
or THI riRST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages.—Far Sale Br
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
Ho. 168 ,
nov. n, - dtf
: TUJTWaIF, "
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvais, No. i, toy,
On moderate terms fcr Cash or a fnertcredit,
James Lyle t
South Seventh Jlreet, near Cbefnvt.
nov 16 {
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com''
man J, at Camp IVeJI Schuylkill, vjz.
O<!lober 29.
George keller, 40 years of aje, j
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, bora in Holland,
broken tcgltfear.d vtry talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, 27 years of
age, 5 feet 7 ■§ inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub'in, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, fandyhair, fre(h complexion,
bern in New-England, state of Connecticut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, j feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, freffi com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade-a. Gardner, has worked for
foine time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very ptuch addict
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, hid on, when they went away,
thetr regimental clothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, fliall receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason
able »xpences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
1 d regiment ef Infantry commanding.
nov 10 § •
■ ' T- n T . s
A FRO NT PARLOUR & CHAMBER,
Gimrmiv Furnished, J
Witk or without Boarding Enquire at
No. 38, Arch street.
uovember 17 ,
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
ga:n£l the cdate of IViUiam Ptrkiiu, dece,.l(id,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
reqnetted to furnifli their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
are r.-qjefted to make payment to the fubferiber m
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
O&ober 31ft, 1798.
■ ——- ■
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WITi
BE IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
V /of August, is the twenty-third year of
the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef the said dif
tridt, hath depufited in this office the title of a
b <<# k the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit : 1
" New Views bf-the Origin of the Tribes asd
" Nations of America—Ey ?enjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D.Corrafpondent Member of the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, ?4ember of
" the American Philosophical Sociery, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Correfpdndidg Member of the Maffa
" ehufetts Hitlorical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Medica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Wniveritty of Pennfylvauia."
In conformity to the *£l of the Congress of the
United States, intitled " An ail for the
munt of learning by securing the copies of maps,
charts, and.books, to the authors asd proprietor,
of such copies during the times therein mentioned.'*
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Ditt.of Penti'
November 1, 1798,
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, underflands
accounts andean be well recommended*
wsnts a Situation as Clerk or Aflillant in a
Wholelale Store, or Couuting-houfe. Appli-.
cation to be made >t this Office.
nov 14 $
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC,
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, «f Fhiladelph'a. who haa.
for a few years pad been in the fo.uthern Sntes,
has had the effrontery to draw feverjd Bills of Ex
change onTiinothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf,and.by that means has defiraiid«<i
a number of persons »f their money, deceiving
them by an exhibitiotrof fctters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public eharaAeis and repu»
table merchants highly recommendatory of
Shaeffer •, to one of these papers I find my name
fubferibed, but I do not know the man ; these are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
, I have to requcll the printers of Newspapers in the
United States to publiih this fer tbe benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
trtufurer if tb: L r *itidtStaia.
TrcntantNcw-
Qflober 24, 1798. )
To be Let,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN
ON THE I4TH APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the poflcfTtnn of Samuel
Apply at thjs Office.
novs»be 13 i'