fm . . /
JfctatCS,
By John W. Fenno, N g * 119 Chefnut Street.
7T7~, PHIL At) EL ?HI A: MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 15, *7 9** [VdiuMt Xl%
Number i3oo. i • , '
—- > * ~ ~~ -
to this Ga- *
■ette at GafmantcrWtV to whom, J
owinp; to. recent disastrous events)
I until
heir papers may not be particularly n«h
Urccted, will be fumifhed with them ma>
,n application at the Poll-Office, in rylai
jennrntown, wh : ther an extra
be. , for that purpose, will con.
tantly be sent. 8 :
Remote Subscribers for this Ga
:ette are ireqtieftecl to forward pr. post,
he arrearages clue from them refpe&ive
!y. r Portmatters who may have receiv
d subscriptions are earnestly desired to
emit the fame. At this interesting and j
liftre fling orifis, attention to this notice 1 3
,rill peculiarly oblige the Editor. f | 3
'v&rt-omczT
Philadelphia, September 26.
for Ne*-Caftle,-Caßtwell bridge,
Duck creek, Dover, Frederica, Milt'urd, j
ieorge-'town ami Delaware ; j
"Crop and Snowhill, Maryland, Horn Town, I
V-comack court-house, and Northampton court
louse, Virginia ; will be elofed at this office ev- J
ry Monday, Wednetnay and Friday at half past
iglii o'clock, A. M. until lit day °f April, I
7/3 ' ROBERT PATrON.
September 26 dut |
Bank oj the United States.
Philadelphia, Sept«mher it,"l79®-j
Th« politic is hereby informed, that
n Offic* o'' Dcpofit and DiscOunt will bt opened I f
n Monday next, at the htmfe Ijtelv .occupied by
oMOti. Richakdet, near the Martet House in I
iernurtrr-n —where the bufinrfc of this InftitO ,
on will be tranfaAed during the continuance o, P
r.4 malignant Lvsmow n-evailinirin Philadelphia. I
HENRY KUHL, Afijknt Cafhitr. {h(
scf.teml-er zi d j
Wanted; aPerfon wl
WHO wi 1 cotvraA to supply the Marine ft'ul
orps, with rations, &c. Apply to Icq
W. W, Burkowes, j c( '
Inter Commandant of the Marine Corps, j
Sc P* 2, > v , L_ thi
Wanted to pur chafe.
APPROVED bills on Amftefdam, for which ari
cash will be gi;enat the rate of thirty fe- wi
ven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Cashier of |pr
the Bank of the United States. rib
September atd. T7<)B. len
i?or bale. u
'""P'HE Sub;crij>er, intending to decline the j th
1 DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the th
■v. holt Stock of ] th
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &•«. | P l
'ihe (hop is elegant, commodi"U«, »nd fulfici- J jV
enrly knov n for the ext'jifivc bufmefs cone in the I
VLicWy* Xr* ? rim <|< U»» lAt
ajy in the city, being at the eoincr of Walnut and I
Second flrcet . The whole, or any part of the j '.n
.Stock, will he fold, as will bed suit the purchaser. pi
Th« terms liuy be known, bysfpplying to | tl
JAMES MOORE, jun. Jul
Wlo has For Sale, | n
Well calculated tor the river trade— I
The Pegky, tbout 30 tonsburthen, j
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably I
flout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in I
good order. I
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forthe lumbirbufiaefs. I
All persons indebted to the late firm 01 I
GtlMitait y BaLtwiv, IV. B■ Goldthwqit, Gold- j
thwart W M>,orc, or the fubferiher, are earnestly I
rcquefted t« make fpendy payment to I
JAMES MOORE, jdn.
augnst 3 • ■ < I
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE Subscriber, encouraged by the advice J
of hit friends, offers his fcrvice to the pub- I
lie as a Ship 4nd Insurance Broker. H« pro- I
pofei to buy and fell veff;ls and every thing re- I
iating thereto—affifi mailers of velTels «id others I
in entering I .d clearing at the Custom House, I
procuring and Ihipping freight, fettling Infur- J
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have |
on band th* neceflary Blanks and Stamps. t
Papers in foreign languages translated, and I
information given in general mercantile matter; j
—From a knowledge gained by long experience I
of every branch ot biifinef-, he hopes to be ule- j
fttl to thnfc « ho please to favor him with thsir J
commands. SAMXJEL EMERT.
Philadelphij, anguft J4th, 1798. $ 1
City Commissioners' Office,
Aooost 30, 1798. I
IN pcifuince of an ordinance of the Sele<st and I
Common Councils, passed the I2d day of May I
/798.
Propofali !n writing will be received by the City j
Coni:,.iffioners for <)ne month from the firft of Sep |
Member next, for letting to rent on leases for one I
year, tp csmmenca the firft day of Januaay nsxk, I
the following public property of the city—
The wharf und landing on Vine ftreec, j
Aii'o onSaffafras, I
Mulberry,
And High flreets.
Chefriutati'i W>Hut flreets, Drawbridge, witl
the Scale and Filb houses, Spruce, Pin» and Cedar
greets. '
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The I avern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill
with the lots contiguous thereto (except so mufch
thereot at b* occupied by ar.y buildings erec
.eedfor the ufc of the Colleftorof the Tolls, or be
for the toll gatet.)
A lUted meeting of the City Commiflionerswill
be hell at the City Hall every Tuesday morning c
ten o'clm k, during the epidemic, coim
TCTSI{ LET;
And immediate possession given ;
A I.arge convenient, well finifhed house, No
215 High-street, lately occupied bv Doc
tor VViltar, with Coach Voufe and Stabies -
Enquire of Will LI AM SHE.IFI\
No 1 £Bj Hirh-Jlreet.
ju!y it §
Fubtic Notice is hereby Ghai,
TUfHAr Projiofals nnd -r fealedcovers, will be A
re*eWed on the bchaif ef the United Stite*
untitthe twtntifcth day of Ofiober next, by Jo- -d' n
riathan Jackson, Esq. at Boltcn, Ma/Tachul ttl, a*
Tench Francis, Ulq. Hiilasklphia, Pen/ifylva-, tit
nia, and John Swann. Esq. at Baltimore, Ma
ryland, for supplying the following wt lps of 'XT
cloathing, far the army of the UiifteS Statit, V f
VTi v 1-- whei
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, of tl
504 Serjeant Coats * mi d
504 ditto veils ca f<. s
l,cc? pairs do. woollen overalls i n f a |
1,008 ditto do. linen dill* imiu
4,0i6 ditto fhirti /™_ ;
164 Musicians c*ats ptrft
7,680 Privates coates tUI 1
7,944 ditto vests <"dt
15,888 ditto woollen overall* i-ilil
15,888 ditto linen ditto
31,7,76 ditto (hirts ) v ( '"
33,791 pairs of Socks "'e
-33,711 pairs of flioes '
8,448 ltocks of black leaner
8,448 ftockc*fj»
8,448 blankets. tier
FOR CAVALRY. sue
6 Msficians coats
i 6 Serjeint coats
6 ditto vtlts 1 f
4 ditto fiiirts 11
8 Privates coats Vj
4 ditto vests i H e
6 ditto ffirts
a pair of Leather brseckes
o pair of ltockings '' ). rn
o pair of boots j„iij
o' Stocks of black leather . < p 0I !
o Stock clasps ti\e
0 Blanket*, " ! niei
Every arrtcle Ihall be made of materials, 1
good, and in form, or fafilion, cont»rm- - r
1 patterns for the fawe, tealed with the day
the War-pffiee, and •rtihich will be de- \
with the several gentlemen, empowered thil
i»e thepiopofals, as abote mentioned. ITi
Sworn Infpetflors ;fhall be appointed on by
tof the United States, to txamiac and B"-
iee upon the ftvtral articles aforefaid, the
he fame (hall be ready for with
wer to rejoifl every article, which (hall not
in gooduels of materials, or to be wade or
mably to, the fafhioti of the standard pit
r the fame ; and no allowance fcali be
for any artiole which (hall be rejected by
for the causes aforefaid.
The proposals imift fpecify the number of
1, and .their kinds, which the party is
; to furnift, together with, the lowet
for immediate payment in money, a.od al
prict?, on theiougeft tnm, or tei /ns of
wc
LjJird of and every «f the fcvtral tio
of the above article*, to be delivered on _
leenth day of December, one third on q
teenth day of January, and the remaining [5
in the firlt day of March next; and the
will not be considered a3 bound to receive
the aforefaid articles ofcloatbing, whicli -p
ot be ready for infpedlion, and delivery, (,e
Tirriftll' Jgrffil unpn- Lfr' -i r ,- »»
. The cloatliing aforefaid wittbe received
several states, at the places, and in the
rtion* following, viz. One third part of
rhot* at Springfield, MaflaShuietts, one p]
third at Philadelphia, state of Pennfylva- p,
ir at Limbcrton, state of New-Jersey, and
lird at Baltimore, Maryland.
No contrail will be made, for a left -
ler of each of the afoiefaid articles of
ling, than is reqnifite for a company,
FOR THE CAVALRY. ' *
4 Serjeant Coats f,
4 ditto veils
16 ditto shirts
1 Mulician Coat n
58 Privatt coats
59 ditto veils
136 ditto lhirts
63 ««ks I
63 stock clasps t i
116 pair of leather breeches r
116 pair of ftnekings r
116 pair of boots a
6v blittkets j
FOR THE INFANTRY. b
70 Hats
4 Serjeant coat 9
4 ditto veils
8 ditto woollen overalls ,
8 ditto linen ditto i
16 dittq shirts <
% Musicians coati
64 Private coats
66 ditto vests
131 ditto woolen overalls
132 ditto linen ditto.
*64 ditto Shirts
iße pair of Socks 1,
180 pair of Shoes,
70 Stocks,
70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENiIY,
-Secretary of Wat".
far Department, J
21ft Sept. 1798. J
iVeft-Indian from Madeira.
'
5" Those Gentlemen who have Wines
>oard the Weft-Indian are informed ihe is
• discharging at South-ftrcet Wharf, are f«-
ed to hallen down their permit);, the VelTc!
b«ing immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
riti Who wants to Purchase,
l * ;ir ico Barrels of, good Prime or Mcfs Beef
100 ditto Pork
HU 7 or 8o« ditto fine Flour
iuch 4 or 5000 bushels Indian Corn,
rec- I. AN DI N G
* From the West-Indian,
... A choice parcel of Phelp's old particular
W1 ' Wine in Piprt fit for Immediate use.
augnll 15 § lot
&- Wanted—Afituation in aPub-
S lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
No by a perfnn regularly brought Hp to the Mer
)oc- Cantile and Insurance bufinef* in Londnn, he has
lately been a voyage from hence to the Weft-In
dies as Syperrargo, can be well.recommended,
■t. —Please to enquire at the Printer's.
§ august XJ
1 ii . ; : ' 5 . - ■ ' •
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Cvre for t'j-jt a 'armirg and dreadful D'furdcr
The Yellow Fever, \X/
As well as, any other dangerous pwrld fver, fever and
*nd vtber imntsratc and dtfeafej % iy *"
4 d, ' ' *>*<*
KSUDRS UNIQUE, . JJ
WELL known an J patented ii< ii»gl.ui d,France, j. ;1
i'ofind, fciid ail the capital cities in Europe, v .
where tic moil ailooubing cut«» MVe best cfftA- i e quii
cd on persons judge«n»caral>le fcy ell fhyfiCiivfH.
laaTrcatife printed in London, on the properties jj u q
of this powder, by T. Sejdjour, M. D. iateCk*- wjlft
raift to his Majelly, there areftated'two hundred are n(
cases, where this mod valuable remedy has proved
infallible, iu ail kind of fevers, pleurisy, cloody flux,
ivolrmtc tleumalifmt, Jsiatica, apoplexy, pstt-alrfic, yel
low jaundice, ringworm, worms in cbildrcsi and in grovn
perftni, ivhite.i, chronical bead and fieri stb achat, I.pa
tic* and rtepbretical or fitne cbolu, tie l:-:gs r»;7, fcttrvy a»g
and the mo/i inveterate and complicated venereal disease. k
ii like rv lie the best preparative for th» small pax
and measles; ol the greatest utility for younp as
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their £
life. The efficacy of this powder m ltvcral of the f m al!
above diseases kas been dilcovered by chance, md alK l (;
so it has been in the yellow feiier last year, by Mr. furthi
Mahy, who cured several by adminiHering #uly
tint of the said pnadcrs, and loft sat a fm»le pa-
tient which he Undertook to cure, as pr»vc<j arid
cttciled by the kcre annexed certificates, whrfc ori- [7 nr
ginalniay be fcen at Andrew
AY 131, corner of Cbefnut and Fourth f recti, the on
ly place whtre thefu powders are to 1>« had, with 59
proper direAions for the *fe of them.—Prtct jw* 1Q
dollars. j
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thi.; remedy be- , "
ing so grcit for so many dangerous jiforuers, ,:.vy j t
person wishing to be provided with those powdei », j n
willplcjLie to apply very fobn, as the quantity at .p
hr.nd is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a ( )
luiijj time, or if ever toy otb'.T genuine will be ini- - 7
ported, the fecrat remaining only in the hand, ol ~
the inveutor, is Europe, and neven-l.- iDg cor,un»-
niMU'-i to, or d fcovcred by any othti pcrfoa.
» N. Eln ck« yellow aiid-putrid feTert, thispow
" u<;r must be taken th# lccond, of at ltaft the third
e day. ' sc
vVetheQjbfcribers, durirg the lite f;ckn?f= in 1
d thrt city, having taken the yellow fevtr, applied to
Mr. Mahy for his medical assistance, we do hcre
n by certity, that by a certain powder, cal'td the at
i Piudre Unique, we were perfegMy recovered si .n
y the said fatil sickness, and from an experience of
I, the happy eiFefls of til* above moll valuab'e medi
lt cins, consider it our duty to make the fameknawn,
e for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
• Margaret Jones,
MylusO'Consor,
Jeffit Turner,
y ChriAen Rebecca Dow, Coa
Catlierin Apple,
" Ann Grovcr,
i,» William Bills,
8 , David Williams, carpeKer, A f
1- William T Donaldfon, naft-maker.
>f Mr. Mahy's well known Pliifter, far all kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc •
3} tioo, No. 131, Cbefnut flr*et.
n anynst 8 aawtf ji
" CEVERAL, very elegant Situation IV Sum
6 O mer Retreats', three'and a half mi'cs from
ie the Court House, and on th« Frankfa'd Roid ;
e the lot; will be made to fu ; t the pjrchalers.— /"""
'' These situations are csnGdered in pent of health V,
f» bea»ty and elegance, equal to any near the city, try
aad ik« vcai lUIMWMA UMMI yai at oil- trv«
seasons of the year. The title iadifputable—A Bn
le flan of the ground* ij in the hands «f ttie sub- oni
ol " fcriber, who will make known the terms on *p- abt
ne plication to him at his office No. 124 Soutfc am
a * Fourth Street. Dei
ld ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. bo
may 1. jtawtf col
of John Haines iff Wm, Jones,
iz T> EG leave toinform their'friends and the public,
J3 that they have commenced a Co-pattnerlhip
in th« SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be carried nil nnder the firm of J ,
HAINES JONES, pt
n Market llreet, N». 131, one «!oor above the
corner of Fourth,—where they presume. (at lead t h,
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufinefi, tlirir determination to fer»e oa the bell f u
terms, aai their knowu attachnicnt as N ative A * £ c
mericans to the Government and Canllitutiou of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage-
mentof a generou« public. Although they can
n t boast of having aetjuired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, tb-t their manul'ailure Ihal f
be inferior to none in this city.
June 26. tuthstf ,il
OX BEEf.
100 Barrels ) of of best quality, put tc
5c half Barrels )up with carefor longvoyagts. ?
ico Barreb of Conne&icut Pork. fa,
50 Barrels of Connecticut Tongues. is
WINES. rr
3 j Pipds of Madeira Wine F
3« Pipes of Port '•
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Ciflcs of Lifoon I s
300 Cases of Frinch Claret, of ex«elltHt
1 quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels ot Condemned, aacl
ie Boxes of heft Durham Muftatd'.
For Sale by
John Skyrin, "
Landenberger's iVbarfi
may 4
~James C. & Set ml. IV. Fijher,
, No. >3 Auch-Stiut,
Have for Sale
; nes 200 Casts belt refined Salt Petre r
le ; s Best Lortdon Window Glass from 10 by ?tc
- f.i 1» by 10
"(T 1 D' tto G,afs War» in Calks alTorted canfiflirtg c
! ■ ! of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine i
Glafies, GoJ>let«, &c. c
ALSO,
A few Balesßed, White ind Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons.
June 27
CASTOR OIL
Is njuch wanted ; Those who havs
:iii*r dispose of will find a ready sale '
ot by applying to any of the Apotheca- J
—r ries.
ub- • *
srgo, Cj* A Qiiarterly Meeting of the '
Met- Carpenter's Company will he held at theif
e has fj a il on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock.
Wo- JOSEPH WORRELL,
idea, J IIT I
IVarien.
o&ob«r 11.
VDVERTISEMENT.
AND F
TTTHEREAS JAMIS Cuvimino Ms Ce. V
VV the city ot Philadelphia, nurthauts, hive 5
assigned over all their effeiti, real, perfor.J a:K
* mixed, to th* iu'jfjribtrs, lor tbc benefit of #|l Freiiii
their creditors, who stall lublcrite the r.uign
meat within fix ni«nths from the date he ' • St*t»i
Norrc:: 13 HEREEY GIVEN, »1» -lu rfi*e - J;
• who ansii.clc'jted to the fjii cfii.te. ' t *hey artt
leguircd :n m.ke immediate pa)lu«lit of «ir*«l-
pedive accovinfti"W tflfc AfSgnee?, at their okice,
3 No. 6i, pock Trreet, in failure whtreof acliour
" will be infiittHud for the of iu«h dekte as
\ are not discharged accordingly. n <r
1 John Travis, ") Un \
John IVaddington, I j
0 James Taylcr, I q,
Cornelius Comegys J /"
y a»tju«t 18 mwftiD
j ■ ——• - 1 - rr2
TO BE SOLD,
s tin e or an indebted Dutch Servant V*o\ T
r 1. who has ten ye»rs to serve. lie hab had the point
c lmall pox and measles, isailive, hearty and ftron*;. Ilt>ac ,
uiid fit for houle wcr!c in town or country. Icr of the
'• further information, enquire ef the yri&tcfi City,
y aii£u«t 4 » count
~FOft SALE, .
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- 0.-uh
i-' fcribers, on Waliul ilrcet WliarF, " r '"^
h ;95 calks of nails alTorted N _ .
™ 20 bales <tf fail i-anvafs, fro 4« No. 1 to 8 |
j;: calN/ye!low ochre . ''
c " ij bottled portef, 6 to 14 dox. each
t f u , n . Jon i Madeira Wiues
> India market > r£
" TrnerifFedo. in hogfteadsaud pip —-
~ OH Port da. in hlids.
2 ' ( Empty Claret bottles
L 6 cjfes of Otnghams, Ditpities, Muflin*t#&c. v T
aborted .'drtlrt- \THI-liiilia market. iN
v _ 4, 10, and 9 inch cablesartd 10 coih»f c«cdagt neftl
j Writing 2;.tes, ink llandt and prcfict ov ti
40 pur cheont Jamaica rum w.tl:
• n I bale Iteming twine bean
J 160 bundles fhcathing paper this
[Z Nichlin (5* Griffith. By
he april 7 tuth&l.tf Slt "
Bengal Goods,
Ji- COM6ISTISG or
n, BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, "V
Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzziaas] Tookcrcys
Elrabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
Long Drawert
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo w 1 j
Coffee in hogsheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira If' 1
WINE thc
of. For Sale, «n reafona'ole terms, by
cc- John Ctaig,
No. ii, Dock-!trcet.
F_ July 14 mwstf
T9 be Sold, at private Sale,
d ; A Plantation and TiaM of Land t '*,
. /CONTAINING 14? acres, situate ii^White
Ith VJmarHi township, y thecounty of Montgom- on
ty, ery, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and or. toIJ
-ail- pubUc roa 1 leading from Plymouth by the
-A Broad-Ax tavera toward Horfhain, and aboui i
ub- one quarter of a mile from laid tavern t all. ter
»p- about the fame dillance from the Skippaek rea r«
utV and about the fame di'tance from the late refi
dence of James Morris esq. deeeafed. It i
!• bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja
f cobßeiff and Detweiltr. About ten acres ar<
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 a'e ur. "JD
'* der cbver, aed about 35 acres are well timbered 1 -
jv' The buildings on the above far.n ouifnt of a Te
. .'f two-ft(»ry iior.e a larpe ftonc- all
18 barn and lione spring-house. Theteis ajfo or Bu
thi premilea a yonng orchard of about 150 ap J* 1 '
ple-trecs. ?
the This farta'iias great advantages of water, as
least t j,ere is an excellent never-failing flream paffinf. A "
c ' in by the houle anil barn, in fuel a manner as t
bfii supply the fame as well as every field with a lev an
eA " ficient quantity. _ ar
u 0 The fprir.g over which the fpring-htti.e is fta
age ' buiif, is excellent water, and is also very near tl)(
and convenient td the dwelling house. r0
f"I The situation of this place is hea thy and in ? n ||
fh°l good neighborhood, arid is near to several dit to
* ferent places of worship, add within the dil dc
. t f tance »f h#lf a mile from two grift and saw
-—■ mills, also near |ime-kilnj.
This farm will be fold together or divided in
put to two parts, at may suit the purchasers. AUi
iges. two-story stone heufe with a barn and carriage
house and lot of land situate on Chefout-hill. I; j w
is a very high and h'ealthy situation, and com* *l^
mands a vpry extensive and beautiful prolpefl- '•
Poflfeffion of part of the house may be had im
mediately.
For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt.
No 04 North Water-ftrect Philadelphia,-pr\to
llent CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK,
on Chesnut-ltiii■ 1
Chefnnt-hill, J»guft 14th. 1798. aawtr J
Bank of Pemfylvania. 1
THE Bank of I'ennfy'.vania it removed to Ger- t
mautowTi,—where the bufinds will be tranfaficd ji
to-morrow, in the Union School House. a
rf. JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier. y
Its September 4 §_
tf nft GE~
Bank of North America,
Augujl 2%tb, 1798.
ryHOSE Persons who have N«"e» 01 Bills to pay
«tc X at thit Sank are informed,
That regular Notices will be pat under a seated
cover direded te the refpedift payer and lodged
Wine in the Pott-Office every Monday until the return
ofthecitixens.
RICHARD WELLS, Cast.it ■.
Flan- aug. 29 dn
' SOUTHWARK.
OMoler 8, r 798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, That the Comitiiffioner* of <
sale the of Southwark have removed
£ca . their Hall t6 tbe usual place, commonly
known by the name ps James Litle's School.
Houfe, in consequence the rapid decline
■ t j le of the Epidemic Fever, especially in the
vicinity thereof.
1 By order of the Btard of Commijfimcr t
: ' ock - I Wm. LINNARD, President.
I Attest,
William I'EifßOiE, Clerk,pro tern.
OiVber 2
This Day is Publifhcd, ,
AND FOR SALE B Y J • / ? N N O* 1 ISKU V-t "> KBIT
AN ADDRESS
i T* the People of Maryland, K
[ ON the origin, and prefect ftjte «f
Freush tggrrl'lo6, witli a fccteh of the infcmou*
attempts t» dcp-aic the Qoverimctnt of tho United
St*t-(.aßd fattt re*edUon» on tlu We proceedings
£w^crtft; Vritteti the laC of April in the pre
feot year, by * Member of the Howfe of
.'.g™* S ---jwne'ii ■"
■ \ To bc Hold, at Puhif Sate, ~
4 Qn the rrcmiJis,
On Tutfrf/ly the 13J Jay of OBoler, 1798, at
half faji two o'clock, in the aftemovn,
. SeVfcral very elegant Situations ff.ir
SUMMER RETREATS,
Three an-t an half pities from the Court uear
FrankfiwJroad, btjug partoo r the fubferibat's
estate.
These situations are considered in
c point of health, beauty and elegance. equal to any
ntar the city ; ewnmaudinga very iKttnfiVe view
r of the Delaware, the ibipping in the harbour, the
City, Hmawyate.Franktbrd, ai4 federal elegant
country ksts.
Any peifon (ietirous of viewing the
gi ounds, v. ill pleafc apply to HENRY HaINBS .
- on the pienuf;», or t.. the/nliffriSer, at Mr. Rich
ardet's coff.-c hoa«c, Oeraiatitcwn*"
The terms, which will be eafv, will bs
! made known at the time of file.
I Should the , weather prore bad on the a-
I bove mentioned day, the fait will take place on the
otfact fair day,at tie hour.
W. JrfACPHERSON.
cAober 9. - dtijO
Pennfylv&nia Hospital,
9 w«. 1,
NT ° P rv( <> B wKf! in infectious difcafc, can bs
jL\ admitted into tI.H houfc- ; it ijthsrefore n*i
t' neftly rcceinms.ided to thu- miaew, not to fend
or tring any fucli patient to the gate, who is ill
with the pi evkiliuj» fever. Several peifous hiving
been font here improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution.
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED froru the Guard House in New.
Caftl -, this morning, Strphun BowdeN, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
Statv*. He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair completion, light hair, blue eyes,
horn in England, and by trade a Erickl. yer. Prior
m to the sth of June, the date of his enliiimsnt, he
resided in Philadelphia, where it is p.-qbable ha
will endea<bur to go. Any pcrfon who w.U ap
prehend the said deserter, and secure him in any
s ra jail within the United States, fliall be entitled to
the above reward.
P. WHARTON, Capt. Marines.
Naw Caftlt, OA. 5.
. TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
f XVESERTED from my Detachment at Borden-
JLt town this day, a Marftie, by natne George
JttJman, a Native of lrelai.d about 15 years of age
fivs feet eight or nine inches high, dark compac
tion, black hair tied; thek eyes well mads and
quarrelfoaie, when in liquor is fond of singing—had
im ~ on a blue seaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had inier his Pan
'he caloonf a pair of Nankccu Breeches.
0l " Whoever apprehends and fends the said Deser
ter to the Marine Caitip, (hall receive the above
sa Reward.
Oftober 11, 1798 ? HEN . R , Y A- WILLIAMi,
» y S Marine*
in PROCLAMATION.
ur. T)Y virtue of a precept Iromjoarf D. Coxe,
•ed 1) Kfijviife, president of the court of Oyer and
if a Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
one all capital ;nd other offences in the county' of
, 01 . Bucks; ;;ni HeN*v Wynkoot and Francis
jp Murray, julgesof the fame court—A cnurt of
Oyer and Terminer, and gtncral goal delivery,
as will.be held at Newtown, i n the said county of
p Eutks, on Monday the sth day of Nov-mber next.
' ( Alt those >yho will profccute agaiaO the prisoners
in the goal of said county, are be then,
and there to prosecute againHtheru as Ihall bejuft.—
ar.d all the iuftices of the peace, coroners and con
" is fliblM, witriip the said cornty, r.re rcquireil to b*
ear then atld tli(fe,in their proper persons, with their
roils; records, inquilitiors*and examinations and
in ? o(l er their remembrances, to do tl.ofe things which
dit to their offices belong, in that hehalt to be
dil done, «<c. DANIEL THOMAS,ftieriff.
saw OA. 4, 1798. 3taw
j in Flo If Fo 11 SALE
AUv By the Sutfcribcrs,
•lag? Deliverable at any of the porta oa the Dcla
l_ j. wa^e —who have also on hand at their stores, a
om- quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
I( cj_ the poll will be attended to.
[ im- Levi HoUingswortb & Son.
augud 28. drf
~ WILXIAM "M'LAWb,
SADLER ts" HARNESS MAKER,
ill, TTAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
;lw t: li and TwelFth-ftreeti, on the Commons,
uhere he will receive and execute the orders of
hU friends and wliolefale customers, with usual
Ger- ctj«ntian & expedition during the prevalence of
afled ih; present Epidemic, where it has »«>t made it*
appearance this season, nor during any of the
ier- yearsp; Vi t
aubtift J5 J
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Siacerity
Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Laguira,
0 CONSISTING OF
94? Fencgis of Gocoa
leaks! 4003 lb. of Flora Iridigo
odg«d aiO Bales of Cotton
cturn 4 Package*of Ooat Skins
By WiH'mgs & Fronds•
No. Elcvcßth-iirecC*
!_ jtily a: dtf
Madras and Ventapaqlejn
8. HANDKERCHIEFS,
EBY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
er»of «f tlie neweftindmoft approved patterns, entitle!
loved to the drawback, jull received,
lonlv A "» F . Ol >* Lt * r „ _ -
. j Alex. J. #t!hr & Co.
, ' Ne. 64, South Front ftrcet.
may >B. «
" the FOR SALE,
loner s John Millkr, Jun.
Ot. NO. 8, CMC9N VT iTM.Lk T,
ioo hoglheads RUM,
Of high proof and £ac flawur
« >ly fRditJ of the Poor.
The undermentioned pcrfonS ate appoint
cd by concurrent refutations of the board*
of manager* of the Mariut and City Hof.
pi'als and guardians of the poor for the
pu pose of relieving such of their fellow ci
tizen whose fituatioiw render it improper
for them to remove t* the encampments*
John Kehr, peter Barker, <
■After Mierckcit, Jtbn Hutcbinfori,
X Alexander tee/, WiUiam Steven/on,
Thtmii mhtne, John James,
Edward Carries, Tbtmas Sultry,
Stephen M.ixJUld. Rhea Kng,
Nat van A. intitb, Paschal
Darnel Doughty, John Te M . '
By order of the board of Mann girt of c
the Marine and City Hospitals. a
Wm. JONES, President) 01
Attest Lj|
Timothy Paxfon, Clerk.
By order of the board of Guardians of at
the poor. ' c(
PETER MIERCKEN, Prrfd*. he
k'
THE committee appointed by the above en
frefoiiitton for .hf" relief i f tucn persons, an
whose fitua'.ions render it impracticable to co
remove then families to he tents, being rea- ge
y dy to enter upoa the important duties of co!
their appointment; inform the public th at an
they will mtet oil the 2d, 4th. and 6:h tin
days of each week from 3 to 6 o'cloek, at ati
th? Senate Chamber in the
where the indigent of the above, class will i me
l)e relieved, upon producing certificates from ' ter
one or more refpeftable inhabitant* who con-; i»g
tiuue to rcfide in tlie city or Suburb* ,that j J
heir families are in such a liuiacien a* to ' exc
f*nder it imprdpe- 10 remove them to the I Hon
Tents. ] jurt
The cotnmitter bemg fenfitls that no en- j cioi
deavours will br lacking in the committee's j owr
who superintend the encampments, t". make I and
the temporary refiderce of the pen ras inba- 1 peil
bitanu who remov.d to them as comfortable and
as pofflblc} and believing 1 that th? removal wbe
of them from the city, may, under Pro»i- diiaj
deuce, be the means of the prevail- ai
inpr dilorder; are defifQUS 20 m»cK: is prfli- cans
b!i to encourage it ; and therefore most ! folat
earnrfMy rtqueft their fellow citizen* to re- ! patr
comns.rK! none to thrm, but furh idtnilies, * ca h
who from sickness r>r other important fan- ! only
nr- improper objects to r-eeiv c : what
tlx public benev lence at the encampments I almo
i-D. QARRIGUES, Prcfident. i gain l
Pster Barkss, Secretary. fupn
Philadelphia, gth mo. 19th, ,9>. neial
New Encampment. ~ Hm; <
Ihe Committer who Superintend the en- 'I 1 "*
can pmeftt at Mailer's place near the Mill tlon 1
Ford on the Cermantown Road, about 3 -
two milts from the city, refpeafully inform CUtIVI
their country frieads that they stand in need OUr c ,
"f a:i immt didte supply of vegetables and
tir.iw for th u r t of those di tire fled citizeuj 7 mi '
vvlio are flying from the present calamity. ? (
'll.e committee flatter therofelves that the r
fame liberality will be found in the farmer, ' '
and other.'., to supply this Encampment, as ,
l.asbeen to :h;it on the Commons nearSchuyl- p,
kill. lotli having the fame laudable obieft n
in view, Kobei
Jjhn JnHcep ~i Rohcl
Yon. Robeftn L committee.
Isaac IV. Morris. J T
Camp. Malierb'Place, vr
September 10, 'OB.
Gar
THE Committee are happy i"n bav- ?3 Ct
ingii in ihcir power to Inform those citi
rma who are not in a situation to provM- C ) U,!
for (hefl*fehvct and are d?firous to remove t-jC
from the city cr liberties, that they are now "J 0 "
prepared to receive from 6to 700 persons at r '„r C
the Eccspmcr.t on Mailer's Place, in the 'P etttu
Northern Liberties where such persons will "' Y rel
be furi.ifl:ed with comfortable apartments * ere C(
and • eceffary provision* during the present
calamity, K;an n
. , believe*
TENTS. ™ rt o ts w
The committee of the guardians "i"^,
of the poor, appointed for the fuperinten awful n
. tie nee of 'Jie tents on Schuylkill, ableil '
ledge with gratitude and fmcere fatisfaflion, defcript
the gencrolis liberality of donation* ihey have can onl
experienced. It is with deference to pub- of cent
lie opinion, and public compaflion, that they liberty
inform their feeling fellow citizens, that they republic
have near seventy pregnant women, who no prop
will, ere tluy leave the encampment, fta d confolin
{n not only need, but Beccflity of cloathing solemn t
for their infants.—To mothers, whose hearts cates • e
can brtt with f ndßefs to their offspring t h a t 'he
T. those amiable young ladies, whose bell w ;i( ps ,
and benevolent aff-flions are extended to c lose the
the frtilirg babe—To fathefj who have it threaten
111 their power, this refpe&ful requcft is ad- ence
dressed. j
By order of the committee, turn f
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman. ™ , " J
October 3> 1798. and affed
7~0 be Sold, Firmh
An elegant and convenient House, and still
/• Ciitf'iu) Jlreet, next doer to the Bait of North Amebic i. perftvera
THE L#t is thirty by one hunered and feverty the Unit
cicbt. The House has been thoroughiy repaired peace ar
witfiin a lew otoliths Apply to the Printer. r 1 '
JL'gUSt 8 r c lo lon g
~ those vcr
The Office of the Committee, criiice of
Appointed to superintend th» huilding of the depend'.n
Frigate to he l»aned to the United States, is remo cannot b
to No. 11» Spruce llreet— of which thofegm- 1 .•
tlenien -drho havs not already ceme forward witl P Jl ' uin g
iluir fubferiptiens will please to tike notice. cerely to
x * ROBERT RII'CHIE, Sec'ry. «id the f
y <> to causes
A Houi'e to let, f®"' 6
tu Fourth tlreet, next dor to the Indian Queen ,e ".S mc,it
Bnquir* of Rob**t Smiih, No. 5?, Southfront P oln tmeM
»-"ect. , § juiy ir Republic
Gjp Should a gentleman, a na- '{j 31 "°. P
ti»e of Teatriffe, who hij t;tm known in America by 'J 11 " I 1
tlie Mitt ot Lewis Msitui Cevel it oue t me, and at them diff
jiiuiher by tbaujf Lewis Ce el P. ilifer, bt alive, and truly pac
A ll^ a Pply 10 Jiuic. U;rry, pi BMtimou-. he will oritfinatci
hear of (omrthiod higSly 10 hu inrereil. Or fliould
l.e be dcccafed, ;?ny pet lon who will a<idtef> aeerti- ' m
flcate of hi! drat"/ properly auihceticned, will be te- cationa so
warded with ftur*/V Jcl'ars, by applying „ a hailfjhti
Mr Pcllifer is .uppolcd to be feme ftiiere in the state nation, ,
1U Wafiachufctts. nations, I
uiguft 1, l which ha
iisasettc»
appoint ,
: boards PHIIJ DE L P HIJ,
llowo- m onday evening, October i S .
aproper ' 1 '
:nt " _ THE ADDRESS
Of two huudrcd and eighty-two fubferi
vln l of t'e county of Al
' bemarle, to General John Maishall,
«, . ® ne 2! our 'ate ministers extraordinary to
the French republic.
'J-worth dear silt,
PERMIT us in the familiar, but fin
°f c "\ e and refpeftfuMl.leofperfonal affedion,
and public ellecm, to congratulate you
lent, of» yottf fafe and happy return to your na
txrt country. At a lime when all the j
be* and ablest exertions of all our belt and
ton, of ablest citiaens of all defct-Tptions, are ne- '
celTary to unrte and aid us in our defence at !
€,it. ome, it is no small confo'ation to us to
know that you, who have rendered such 1 1
above eminent services abroad, Ihould be now. '
r . ' * mo »g ««, r«dy to lend your aid in our
)Ie to country s cause ; nor are we, lir, f 0 for- '
g rea- getful of the abl.' afliftanceof your worthy 1
les or colleagues to whom we make no dcubt you
th at are pcrfonally attached, set to pray that Pi
6111 they may soon. be reftorej to the fame ficu
k, at ation : which to W with ycu the ap
oufe probation and applauses of your Country!
1 will ( men, Wl ]| on ly to br j {(J ynu r
from J ter re,vard—the happy confiilation of hav
con-; mg afted well. tr
that j In approving of the able and patriotic m
s to exertions of our commllioners in their mis
' the I . t0 France ' we cannot do otherwise in m
; ju.'uce to the foarce from whence their judi- t0
en- ; ci jus appointments flowed, than to declare
tee s ) owr full and unequivocal approbation of that ac '
lake | and every othe* measure taken by the sam" mi
vtia- f person (our Prefidint) for the moderate, mil •' 10
abk and pacific purposes of reconciliation ; and I vid
oval when that xras no longer attainable, for the ! du '
•o»i- dilagreeable bu' nerefiary ones of deduce - !
vail. —and afn.,rg the reftof those meafutes, iM
(Ti- cannot fail*to fee a source of additional con- th{
fiolt j folatiop ("o you to find that man, of whose ! fu<l
rc- , patrionfm, wisdom and integrity, AiAeri ' is
its, ,ea has alrendy had the grcateft proofs, not flo<
j only ppr-vina; in the mod decided terms of ta!(
rive j what had already been done, but ready even mo
its j almo ft at the close of life, to encounter a- no '
gain'the ditftcuhi s and hardfliips cf war in ltle
support thereof. The appointment of Ge-1
nera J Waflsit!gt«n to the command of the i salt
armies of the United States, his acceptance ! tenl
eo _ thereof, and above all, his decided approba- ' n
lilj t,on ot " thc measures of the government, are f tion
>ut 3 v ? lll,ne . of teflimony on the feore of exc- i P ,ac
rm cutive wisdom, and a host in uniting us in ! froß
e< j our common defence. j fton
nj Accept, lir, for the eminent services ■ fton
u, y®" '' ave rendered us, our fmcere prayers ! 11
for your personal h ppinefs and prosperity. I tllc
he f Sl e r ' ed and in behalf of the theil
T the 17th September, 1798, by I are 1
as N jf hdh »' William Mickie, j
•1- p" ,d J 0 f, J Thos. C. Fletcher, ! '
aB I W^S field ' J u ". Benjamin Brown, tae <
Robert Davis, J ohn Htt - rri|i Spai
Kofccrt Garland. em v
E Xtt
ANSWER.
To John Nicholas, David Wood, Charles 7'
jun. Rwbert Davis, Robert l ° bt
Garland, V, illiam Mickie, Thomas C U '
r. * £ciyawm Brown, and John
Hams, Efqui.es, and those gentlemen, P rcd '
citizens of Albemarle, on whose behalf, t0 be
e the address, signed by the above gentle
v men, was transmitted. •"'
, f gentlemen, my sincere and re- f° r ''
e fpeftful thanks for your congratulations «n
I my return to my native country, which ; e ' .
s were communicated to me by our common i ° f , mr
Mr. Walhington. Congratulations 3 Ca
never cease to value, because they are f au t e ,
believed trf have been diftated by the fenfi- It j
meats in which they are profeffed to have e '
been written. be ami
Impress d deeply as yourselves with the r° d , CC
awful neceflity of uniting " all the bell and > r V,
• ablest exertions" of our citizens " of all
descriptions," for " defence at home." I T .
! can onl y re g«t, that the means I poffefa 1 r [ !
of contributing to an objeft. c , n whic.V the j "
liberty and independence of the only real -f ' ,
republic on earth so much depends, bear ! "JJI
no proportion Jo my wishes. It is, however i
confolirg to believe, that the interesting and ! T t „
solemn truth, acquires every day new advo- ! /We n
cates; and there is much reafoa to hope, ! J Bra
that :he great mass of our fellow.citizens Dir&o
will permit no inferior con f, derations to I
close their eyes on the real danger, which | tw „ 1,.
threatens from abroad their national jxift- a t p an
I wilh, with unaffedled ardour, the re- anceVrc
turn of my late colleagues, and fall receive on ?h'
real gratification at every mark of esteem ,j on lh
and afFc6lion which they may receive
Firmly convinced, as I ever have' been, l ° 3 F '
and still am, tf the sincere and unremitting Died,
peifeveiance, with which the Executive of inghaml
the United States has invariably fought for f^nfmnt
peace, and friendly intercourse with France, as a fo!c!
so long as a hope remained of attaining ™ ,h T F
those very desirable objefts without the fa- !t'" g V
cnlice of one still more definable— the in- i" the 8
dependence of our common country I two'Ceg
cannot but add my voice to yours, iivap. teno'y, F
planning measures which I believe most fin- s ' irl^2l
cerely to hove been both wife and pat iutic, service »
and the failure of which, must be attributed
to causes the govern, Kent mud lament, but w °"
£;r tr ""' :t0 m y-grateful aeknow- men,, to
!ed£mct,t f r y.,u* approbation of the ap- prefer be
pointment of the late Eavoys to the French for feve
Republic, I btj{ lenve to add my assurances, '' vc d we
that 110 persons could have been fele&ed for t0 en j°y
that million, who would have carried with rj^ci
them difpofltions more corformable to the r ' b "
truly jjacific temper, in which the measures (
originated.
The most temperate and repeated fuppli- R 1
cation, for peace, having been rejetfrd with t'Zj'
a haughtmefs unexampled in the hiftorv of • 1
nations the unopposed a«d open hostility llnua "«
which had been so lsng praftitcd ou our A |
— kdcfencdcfs comiMrre and ettizerrr, -bti.r
not only continued, but accompanied wit it
threats of fliil further hoftiliry, jio alterha
— tive remained but firbiWffion and defence, 1
rejoice with you, gentlemen, that America
had chosen the latter, tfo other choice
! 15. could havs been made by men who defcrve
to
ptdtfd from the diltingttilbed charaders,
fubferi- ' lave ' )een c^°f;n hy the people to fill
of AI department* of our happy go
shall vernm< nt: Having made it, preparations to
Harv to ) mai ' nta ' n the ground thus necefiarily taken,
' became inevitable.
to arm in defence of all that is <
>ut fin- dear and v ai'iable on earth. I join- most |
tdion sinCerel y. Ec our fellow-citizens. ,
:e vou' °" ' once mo|le enliited in the fer
ur na- V cfH *" tr y# tfce virtues and the ta
jj t j ]e lcnts of (hat great man, who lys known 1
ft and ')° W l ° 1" the public confi- f
re ne- • "' W l T 0 "' 0 how 10 and re r > tl
nee at tIFC roni offices with equal repu- ft
us to tatl6n '. iind put the last fcal to the "
1 such P atr '°t'f m of his charaiSer, by obeying at h
now. lh " per ' loUS cnTH ' the . voiee which ca,ls him le,
n our f ° a & a ' n the armies qf liberty and of at
American independence. cs
orthv i • ece . lve » g e my thanks for your ce
It vou ■""? Wl > oß f y m y perianal happicefs and
that P ro P er,, r» and believe, when I afTure you pi
1 hat Ido molt iincerely reciprocate then), ds
* p : JOHN MARSHALL. ,Pl
: bet- SPANISH r/OOL. inl
hav- The following account of the care and f. a
treatment of (heep by the Spanf/h Hock
fotic malle rs, with a view to ihe prclervation of -'°
mis- their wool, 's extraded from a work of ad- ' lO
fe in m,t ted authenticity, and may be interesting
judi- to many : D<
:laie From computation* made with ths utmost mc
that acci ! rac y, 't has appeared, that their are 5 CXf
"ame I of fine-woolled (heep in Spain ;
1 just j 'O.coo ftsep eotopofe a flock, which is di- w ,
and ! lnto t° tribes. One man has the con- t ]
the <^u^ln S' He has authority over 50 l°,
ice; j (hepherdi;, anxl 50 dogs, five to each tribe, p"
>, it.' J IC 1,4 g the (hepherd does nrlea t •
:on. I thc Returns from thi south to their
lose j f" mrlle r downs, is to.give them as much fait
icri. ' as W1 " eJt > every owner allows his
not j " oc,t 1000 sheep j®o azoves or quin
sof i ta ' s which the flock eats in about 5 .
veil mo,lt hs ; tbey cat none in their journey,
ra- | nof 111 t,le winter walk- This has ever been com
rin '' le cu ''°ti antl it is the true reason why '
3-e- ! the kings of Spain cannot raise the piics of
the ! to tie height it is in France, for it would Bour
nee ! 141I 41 ? 1 ? 1 the fliepherds to stint the steep, which as a
ba- j '" 3 believed, would weaken their conftitu- j firm
are I tions and degrade the wool. The shepherd I co . u,<
xe- j P rlnc
in I rom eacl > otter, he strews fait upon each
j stone, he leads the flock slowly through thc
;es 1 stones, and etery (heep eats to his liking,
ers | 1,1 S P a 'n are two kinds of flieep ; P ° et
:y. | l ' le _ eoarfe woollen flieep, who remain all as .'
he 1 their lives in their native country, and who , '* th
by I ar e housed tvery uight in winter ; ai?d the Was !
j fine Woollen lueep, who are all their lives in ,ead 1
>r » 1 'l' c °P cn i'r, and travel every summer from
the cold maintains of the northern parts *f!
Spain, to feed all the wicter on the south
ern warm pliin# of Andalusia, Manca, and • ?
Extramadu'a. ' quitti
— ~ '— nrtw
tJ The exciut ion of a Direftor by lot seem« "! t,K
rt to be a matter perfectly well understood in ! ?"
, France; for Mr. Stone, in his intercepted "
n letter to Dr. Priestly, written in February work.
If prcdifls that Framois de Neufchateau was adopt !
p' to be the Direttor exchided by lot in May. ''"pert
All England was thrown into a ferment Rot
_ for three ytnrs, by thc House of Commons Moun
n invalidating one that of Mr. my lif
Wilks for Middlefcx. In the short space goverr
n j of nine months they have annulled in France oblio-e,
s at lcaft 400 elections, in September, be- is the
esau f au9 e th? persons eleded were lloyalifts; of mat
_ m May, btclaufe they were Terrorists.
Under that pretence thc next Eleflion#will
be annulled it is neither easy nor important Says si
. to decide; but under such a system, it were they c;
j surely more decent to fjt've up the mockery alone.'
I of eleAions altogether. "'if :
being a <
j There are at prefetit three hundred per- if once 1
1 j foos at Rochford condemned to tranfporta hf°f-lf C
1 tion,without form of trial,by the mere atitho
f rity of the Executive Direftory, and the pcrf "
j number daily encreafes. Th yd
j It would be curious to calculate what kyk' ou
| /hare of the prodrice of the Diamond uiiuet
of Brazil has pasTed into the pockets of the F "
, Dirdory during their negotiation with Por- T' le
1 tugal- D' Aranjo is known to have given or t u "a
i two large bribes—one for liberty to imam this
,at Paris, till he could have farther inllruc- " 1
i tions from Lilbon—another for hi.l deliver 'r Ve
I r ■ -r ■ 1 ™ Ut.iver- ltß re f onl
| ancetromimprifonmcnt in the Temple. Up yond bo
on the magnificent scale of Parifion corrup- time the
tion, these two bribes must have amounted P enccs w
to a pretty lum. fupeiflu t
don« ; so;
Died, lately, at Gedling Workhouse, Nott-
inghamfhire, England, aged 96, Jehn Flinders, —find on
pensioner, who hadl'erved his country 61 years " [ j,j,
as a fokiier, 31 years of which he was a gunner has difpla
m the Royal Artillery, i» years in the »Lh, or toniftud
King » own Regiment ot Foot, and lix years in young la
the sid regiment, General Lambton's. Whilll great lucl
in the Bth regiment he was iu fix battle# and
via. the battles of Dettiugen, Four
tenoy, Falkirk, Cullodeu, Raekoo, and Val,
Stirling Castle, andßeigen-op-Zoom, for which ' r
fer vices he had a pension from Government, has been
which enabled him in his old age to live com- should li
fortably in his native parift of Gedling ; but it Wh.t o(
was very remarkable, that, after ma D y eXperi- j„ araum
ments for comtort in private famihei, he fhauld
prefer boarding himfelf in the parilh workhouse
for several years be£jre his death, where he
lived well at a cheap rate, which enabled him The c
to enjoy his can of mle regularly every dav, aid Venice h
to fublcribe bi> half guinea to' the Voluntary tua" —*
Contributions . _ "
. the Frent
does
of "" r-r
PETER MIERC KEN, Prtfiatnt. "J d-
Alms Houlc, Oftybcr H
4 wltli G VLVXLWA,
alterha-I *' K ankbotcs.
fence, t j -fake him on 1 cnt him oot in litr'r stars.
Amer !« K^VJulia.
choice l'etoile.
deserve It is said, that thij elegant writer com- i
iSen ex- posed always by candle light, and that when
trader*, tf£ fa to wor!c in the day, he had the win
!e to fill dow.i fluit up, and lighted candies. Like
W B°' ihlicre aiid Frlalherbe, he was in the use of
tior.s to always reading his verses to an old maid
taken, servant. M. Pelliffan, who tells this anec
dote. observes, that he perhaps th.mght
that is thai his ver'es were not complete till they
in inoft bscame pofTcfled ot a certain kind of beauty
:itiz<ns. which was perceiraWe 1-y every per:on.
he fer-
the ta- CAMUS, BISHOP OF BFILAV,
known Was the great friend of the good St. Fran
confi. (Qts de-Sales, whose life he wrote. Observing
nd re- that many clergymen ceased to preach as 1
! repu- soon as they became biftiops, he said, 1
to the " That a bishopric was a gag." Politics,
eg at he defined, artem nori tam rigendi quam sal.
Is him lendi homines : little thinking that mankind
nd of ire so foylifh and incanfiderate, thit they
canpot well be governed without being oc
your ceflonaliy dup;d. ,
s and St. F'rMcoii ue Sales, having on; day com- [j
; you plained to Jjim of his waut of memory, M. „
em, ds Bel/ay said, you have no reason to com- n
L. plain of your portion, lince you ha"e an ex- (
cellent judgement, in which part of human J
irttllcfl I ain sadly defective. The good
and a,nt burll out a lau liiitg, and embracing
lock- h,m yeT Y "nderly, said, '< I know well tha°t
mof o,u alwa y s speak as you think : you are,
f ad- h l ow<;v:r > th " "o'y Pcfon that I ever beard j n
iting ™ a, "b rc himfeif with want of judgement. ne
JJo not ccfpair; time will bring you judile
moft mcut with itfclf It is one of the fruiuof h e
re experience and age."
ai J-' CHAPELArN
-on- "° great fr ' ea(110 the fa, ' r ;he nfed ,
rco L° ?' .r *r C motl '"te'hg-nt of them had 1 "
ihf» reason. CLapelaitfs poem of the
•hen , . or °f the Maid of Orleans, took ' A
heir en ty years to write, and when it °
fait r in - O , Ut ! h was generally difpifed. A C * P
-Latin distich wa» made upon it.
am- 3 hc j X P e^ed now for H c * past. n
An old and wrinkled hag turns out at last. 1
ley, CkaPelain spite of his excessive avarice, S"
een or.ee an aft of great generoflty. £,?'
rhv " e appointed preceptor to the dauphin. *'l
0 f He perfiftcd, however, in refwiing that ho- I •
uld nourable and lucrative employment: giving
ich I s a r e«'fon, that he was become old and in
tu. J hrm ; and could not flatter himfelf that he "f*
erd i cou!d eVfr please a young and a lively •
glpnnce. j whu
,ch - | dut >
he racaw. I
If we are to believe Cajbr, this elegant
poet had so little taste for Latin, that he I f>
a)l as ncv e r able to get by heart the confiteor
bo , the m ® fs boa!f3 » and that even when he I . .
he wo, co afc fling himfelf, he was obliged to
fp read u eut of his book. 6 j
>m ~ | reccii
•si • . J. J-Roujsmu. fire yi
h- !■„ nue writer retided some time at the thefc
,d V .$ £ ° Mont morency, near Paris. On I mark
quitting it he presented a copy of hi* I c ?mf
Hi iw IWfSry"&m-»ißeSor the oratory, r m,nl
ni !'!• 1 l 1 v 'l e ' "'t' l 'his infeription in a | IC " L
; n ; blank leaf of it; I
:d '1 7 r ' y :,1 U - "' fathers ,f the ora A
V Tnrl 1 "I P u'? thf ' r libr: "'y to hls 'ail j Pritcfc
y work. As-to ajopt the book of a writer is not to I
as 4:lopt 1)1 he thinks that Be can, without
y. mipmiiunc.', rtquea this favour. j the b.
" Montmtreniyi May 29, 1761." I B avc
U ■ Rousseau fays, Ir, his letters from tbe I binle.
is Mountain—" After having been during all I
r. my life time, the pauegyrift of a republican L»t'
:e griverntneiK, towards the end of it, lam Efthcr
:e bi 'ged to confefs, that in a monarchy there f
'j of raatf'" 16 ' ***** Pai4 ' v ° the tr#e libert y
' J.tcud, I
1] I into th
" m CHAM Four ti»n.
t ays finely, " Most men are (laves, becaulV j contriv
e they casnot fay no, and are not able to live _
f alone."
" If a man," fays he truly, « wifties to avoid
being a quack, be tliouid never mcuat a flp.R;: but | r ,u
. «f once h. ha, Jcg„d c d hnnfelf so a, to Pa tricks ' B ' h=
upon one, he nauil continue to play th=m, or *\ I
niajlolf Honed by the populacr." J 3
Weak men are to rogues and defigtiing I Govi
persons, what light troops are to an army, j a
1 bey do marc miCebief than the army itfclf,
byfeoming and ravagirg the country. W'
II. KING OF PRUSSIA. I
, The beginning of the reign of the last un- I the fai
fortunate king of France is thus described Hall, w
by this great prince to Voltaire : j if viliai
' I know very well the true flats of the debts I -'ble uAi
and revenue!.<M" F ra n:t. It, debts are oorraous, I tions aa
.ts refonrtes exhauftcd, and i s taxes be- I awav
yond bouß'li The Bn ; y method to diminish in or pert
6 the . !°. aJ will he to put it,
fences witbui certain limits, aM to retrench evrrv »
fupeifla ty. Bt,t. alas! this I fear will Te
don« J for instead of fay„. g | hsve such an income !£"
and 1 can afford to spend eniy so tpach of it we I
are Ut to, apt to fay, I mu fl have lo much 't P
—tuid ost expedients to get it for me. 1 wiio (ha
, " ' h r ru that thf king of France l J 1
has displaced some « f his minilters. I am not i( _ I 'Cceffar,
tonilhtd at it." I lco'i upon 'I. 00ls the xvi lfa ~3idon
young lauih ui rh; midi of wolves—he must Jiave A
grca, luck if he gets fafc out of their hands." j A
I unto an>
DOM. NOEL D'argonNE. j
I» it not surprising, that since ef.quence SalUh
Sihuw'riT 3 aS,it ' s > ma:j kind and ace,
[ ftouid lull continue to be duped by it? UdpLe
Whit our modern orators, adds he, 'want t!,Jt
in arguments, th'ty give you in leneth. I
FA THE* PAUL SU PI , . J klsCon
Th; dying with of this great patriot of j enioined
Ilr C tr ' ' n , fi e r fulfl!!cl ' " Fjlop ; rpe- to
. • ~ y U la ,t forever! The power at l in C3ntri
the Fre'ich, which, Ike a baleful comment, !iid
does nvfcnief ta the general s y st em 0 f tfu .
universe, without affording to itfclf either „
fiipenor heat or splendour, has demoliflird ( ' S ''
that republic, which had continued twelve
hundred jean, ,„d which lUrringtor
thought incapable of decav fro n any i-,.
tcrnal defed in its constitution. An in- P T tf-.c
icription was some years age put upon the
pcgb'J piiacc at Venicc» which ha ß l
but too fatally realized in our times:
Pr udentia patrum periit,
us. </Imprudent/a juvenum imperat
'S? Juliet. ' Kefyublica recehs ruit. '
The prudence of «ur Senators is extineujft.,.
The imprudence oi our tc u h men
r com- The Rcpubhc { , hadl^
t wnen __ °
ie Wln " DESMAHIS.
Like The oppreflivc sensation, and the cauf,
use of of ennui were never better difcribed than C
maid- this elegant French poet:
ante- ennui.
•night Ce fommeil fatiguant dc I'ame,
1 they Nedecomrainreetduloifir,
Be »os jouri use plus la trame,
Que la douletir ec ie plaifir.
Of the dull oppreflive ffeep, J
Born of <jonftrsint and too much forr®* J
More on the ft retch lift's thread you keep'
fran- Than either cnguifh er than pleasure:
rvmg It is the observation of a learned phy.
<*a* "cian that manyperfons incur disorders that
faiu, lead often to death by mere ennui.
liand [From a London paper of April 14.]
they
r oc- A t-« astronomy.
/C u Frnretl Journal states. that since the
° th ac ° of that kind called bearded,
M "a r n , tf ' C hor,2 '' n the south.
■ weft Of the town of Leybach. It was of a
, m f, an magnitude, and very luminous. I tß i
man ' Vr palc ' CouJd fce br
•"a' l means of a telofcope. r
food
"! n ® aerostatics.
that A per fori of the name of Garnerin ha,
ar e, annoHnced m the French papers, that br
-d iniendcd on the nth of M LI, to mat JV
nt. nev , experiment )n the park of Monpcaux, I
.of u ' T!, 10 which /ere to
■f'rhem H,T aSr ° ftat wh, " ch wa s to
ra.fe ihem, a ballon perdu, contains 906 cu
bic feet, arid the artist propoftd to maki it
fed thlder Th atm ° phae with a "oife like
lad ".7 , , r cx P cr,mc,,t « v as to be pre
the dimeter '7 °r° f 3 ghbe fivc >'» *
ok d_ameier, and 73 f eet cube. (Woct I
of the unfavourab'enefs of the weather, the
A experiment, was put off. ,
Privately flealing.
carSe C °wh man be,o ?s !a « to a
;e. Z' 8 7 was Wa,tm S 10 George-street,
y SLr < n r qUa r e, 0n .^° nday n, S lu ' having
n. S" 'ff e^T? ,h r itn u » ha and
made off with the horses, leaving him tht
° r*ign« m his hands.
d- n „ l) v , ? g the ' ate Wet tvca,her many of the
ic caught cold while exercising
y L. f f r- n,P^ dam P s > ln eonfequence of
, . their Wlf « ordered them to go on
duty in pattens. 6
v
t Th l{f/°^;" S " fr ° m , an Provincial
e virulent of the oppoutUn.
r . Cambridge, may 16.
. vVe have presented to our readeri a faithful
3 i! u ?e «" :nt ° lhf official document! publiflied
by the Amencan Commiflio/ie.- # of their nego
• latnas with France. As no advices hive been
leceiveo from France for this week pa ft, and we
'are yet unacquainted with theFren. h account of
; these proceedings, we defer making any re
, marks on what at present appears to be such a
complication of base vrrilit, would h-im
; srs^r
mJA k:'•,?;*«?
Summons, of St David's Th •' '° M ' f '
gave the bride away, and tht bride't fervaat
S. tht a S e of the blooming
feud, beitij a part of the body who had fill/- "
into the hands of the e»emvin tTe ll^l
They hod leizcd o/an ten wf
contrived to make their efop c . P ' 4nd
.'W -* l *—, 11—^^^111
PSNNSTLr UN I/I, Jf,
In the Name and by the Authority of the Com
moiiwealtii of Pcuhiylvania,
By THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Cover liar of the said Commonwealth,
A PROCLAMATION.
W 1 " » h* b-en stated ti me bv 1
f p 1 "M™" a ' ld D'reaors of the Bank
d! n I 5 a an ft' 0n thtt ™S b tof Satur
ujf , fi R the Houfc »ow occupied by
da'll t f ' Cer '" ,no " l y Carpenters t
dull was entered by fame villain,
viliaw unsnovrn, and therefrom a conGder
ab'e utfmoer of Bank Notes of various defcrip- 1
tiom aad denominatio.l3 wer, stolen and carried
a«ay. 70 tub iNTENr that the perpetrator,
10 W-Teat 1 crime ' the sb
4 CCeflar.ts thereto, may bedifcovered
to cond.gn pumfhment, I hav« deemed it exne
to liTve tilts Proclamation, hereby offcr-
SANn ST tWAR "of ONE THOU-
I r l to any P" 1 ' 0 "' or Salons.
Ss <j ', n 7 er the I;Sr^rat .° f ' »'• V'erpetra-
M t.,e said criwe, or any Of them, or anv
lCceflary thereto, oefore or atf.-r lhe fail, t , be
?" or ,n >' ° f the &
■r ' ? nPJ «ei eby further offer and pro
™ A F!< EE ANii ENTIKE PARDON
unto any „ue of the perpetrators, or aeceffarie
a.orefaid the Qoinunflrion of the laid crirfiei
of alUh '' akC » , " 113ml fa,ikfa « disclosure
a<l tne c»cnmftance 6 relative to the contriving
and accompUlhifg the fame, and of the
and places of abode ,<f hit or l^ r a rr„ c i at( . di so
tnav iuch alH>ciates he i »
£*fjg»> *aSPSJr
f... ar . r! other l'kblic Officers of
'k.s Commonwealth (according to the duties of
!*.r«£efl.v. ltations) ars berehvrequi fcd ' d
enjoined 10 use all lawful means io dVefl TvA
n'rfm°' Ce " Ch ; " Hj . cver y concerned
cMtriwig, or perpetrating the crime afore-
OTVEN "ndtr my hand and the Grtac
/, cv ,i??. e i »h«
S,) th,r * d »y of September, in the yfa ' r of
our J.ord one thousand fev CH hundred f
Py, t ,c„ : „„ : TH0! " AS «"tTUN.
A.J Dallas.
Seoetary^ f tbe'CmtmmM. J
fc_ ' <_!_ - --- J*
~ BY TIIIS DAY'S MAIL.
jforetgn £trt)ices,
By the ship Betsey, Capt. Car berry,
arrived at New-Tork, in 32 days n
from Cork. N
J I
LONDON, August 11. u
Landing of Buonaparte at yllexJftJria
"Star-Oflite, Eive o'clock, P. M. t(
We ft ip the Press to announce that a report is d
current that the French General, Buonaparte,
has made good his landing at Alexandria, with
15,®00 men, not having been come up with by 0
Admiral Nelson. This intelligence government
received by private letters brought by the Ham
burgh Mail, which at rived lift night., e
Since wilting the a'iove article, w< have been -y
favored with the following, dated
" East-India House, August 11. ,
By a letter from Mr Tooke, the East Ir.dia
company's agent at Constantinople, dated July t
43, it appears by the report of the captain 1 f v
the Port of Alexandria, who escaped from
thence to Cypru». freni whence he has forward- a
ed a dlfpitch to Conftai.tinople that Buonaparte
ailuaWy disembarked at Alexandria, on or about ;
tlie Bth of July, from r? to 10,000 men. and
thit nc isc; with little or no refinance from the y
Turks. Buona\!arte's (bips of war, and
trani'ports, inflated to be near SCH fail."
- r
Manlion Moufr, Asgull 14, '9?. j
The following is j copy of a letter received
this day by the Lord Mayor:
Loid.
" I have the honor to acquaint y -ur lordiliin,
by command of Lord Lieutenant, that intelli
gence is just received, that-im thi evening of 1
the I2d instant, a I'nlall French fqwadron. con- (
fiftin ; as is stated, of four (hips, has appeared in
the bay of K llala, and landed part of their
men : the ajnotict of this force is not yet alcer- ,
tained. k
I am at thf some time to acquaint your
JLordfhip, that a squadron of his Majeftv's | ;
{hips, confiding of a line of b A ttle fliips and j ;
five frig.Ucs, are erurzirt:; off the North Weit. ,
Coast, atid there is realon to hope they |
will fall -in wilh the enemy.
* I have the honour to be, &c.
1
1
Upon this news be!''g made public yester
day ; general orders were ifliied to the yeo
manry to parade, at fix o'clock in the even
ing, at their several alarm polls, furnilhed ■
with ball cartridge. 1
In consequence of this order, a very mi- t
mereus attendance of the different corps—
the lawyers and attornies corps, cavalry and
infantry (which had been formally dismissed '
from duty, in order that the members might 1
attend to their private affairs in the several .
parts of the country) rauftered in great
force, and not the least abatement appeared
' to have taken place in that zeal which has
so often been roused with effect for the pre
servation of the metropols.
Notwithstanding the anxiety manifefted '
by our gallant fellow soldiers for immediate '
dtry, it was not thoaght neceflSry t6 em
ploy them upon any service, and they were
dismissed, with directions to hold themselves
in readiness in cafe of any alarm.
No such alarm took place, and the night
pass d wiih perfeft tranquility.
K.illala bay, where the Freftch fiqnoiron
is stated to have landed their men, is a small
inlet of the Atlantic ocean, in which the
little town of Killala is seated, in the county
of Mayo, and about 127 miles NW. from
Dublin. The town is an episcopal see—
the present bishop is Dr. Stock.
It is supposed that the number of French
landed at this place does not exceed 800
men. A small pariy of about 20 of the
Northampton fencibles quartered there, is
said to have opposed their landing, but, as
may be ttafily imagined, without any etfeft.
This fquadroH is said to be the fame which
failed sometime ago from Bourdeaux, in
o-der to make a diversion on the NW. coall
of this kingdom, while the main squadron
should fail from Brest and land troops at
Lough Svvilly. Happily the vigilance of
tne Britifli Seet has locked up the latter in
the French harbour, and thus baffled this
last desperate attempt of the Irish traitors;
while the petty invasion 3t Killala, abandon
ed as a miferabie and forlorn hope, must be
ci<t off—the (hips by the superior naval force
which is now upon the north weft coast, and
the trgops by the indigttant valour of Irish
loyalifis.
A fliort time will, v/t trust, produce a
fortunate and aecifive issue to this new trea
son of those abandoned mifcrsants; who,
to gratify dia'uol cal ambition, would (trew
the country with carnage, might they ortly
hope to rule amidst the desolation of Ire
lard.
It was yesterday reported that the bishop
of Killala had fallen into the hands of the
French troops; but we have good reason
to believe this report utterly untrue-
The counties of Wicklow and Wexford
are completely secured by a powerful mili
tary force.
We understand that it is the intention of
government not to permit any of the chiefs
of the rebellion co be included in the am
refly, who shall be the future cause of any
effuiion of blocd ; and that it has been de
clared to them, and that if they expeft fa
vour, they must take immediately advan
tage of the mercy of our chief governor.
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the Office tf the Gazette of the
UnitedStat**,
And forwarded agreeably to direc
tion, any where in the vicinity of
the city.
0&. 13- dtf.
Madeira Wine.
A few fipesofrtmaikably fine MADF.TRA WINE
fit for immediate use, ar.d at a red net d price—Foi
ftlchy JAMKS YARD.
jiily »6'. eutf
ftaftcript*
NEW-YORK, October 13.
With extreme pleasure d® we an
nounce the fafe arrival of Gen. Pinck
ney and family, in the Fruffian ihip De
Hoop, Capt. Hendrickfon, which came f
up to this city, yesterday afternoon, as- f
ter a passage of sixty days from Bour- {
deayx. ... t
We are sorry that the afflifted state of \
our city prevents the General from land
ing, otherwise, we are confident, that >
even the few inhabitants now in town, t
would, with public acclamations, wcl- \
come the arrival of a ruin whose con- (
' du£t in France has been marked by I
that firmnefs, probity, and intelligence, ;
which must endear him to every honest {
and patriotic American.
The General will disembark to day at ;
Paules-hook, and proceed to Trenton, ;
where he will be received with open <
arms by those officers of our govern- ;
ment, who have taken refuge from the ]
fever. (
The General observed to us, that if j
we. are UNITED and ENERGETIC, ,
we have nothing to fear from France; ;
but, without these two ingredients in t
| our councils and nation, the evils of a 1
war may be conjidered as a probable ,
event, 1
To the politeness of the General, we •
j are indebted for a file of French papers 1
j as late as the jath of August; from ,
! which we extra/ft the following insidi
ous idecree, the dark tendency of which,
our readers are too enlightened not to
be sensible of, and too honest not to ab
hor. This fyi Wt song, intended as a
lullaby to Americans is signed by honejl
Merlin, of privateering memory, who
last year when Minister of Justice, was
the source whence ifiued all those pirati
cal opinions, which organized and fanc
tioned-the most unbounded depredations
on our dpfencelefs commerce by myriads
of French tree-booters, in many of
which he was known to be interested.
From the Journal de Bordeaux, dated »i Ther
midor. As. VI. (Bth August 1795)
Arrette ; of the Executive Direftory.
The Executive Directory, hearing the report
of the Miniflerof Marine and of the Colonies;
conlidering that the news recently arrived from
the French Colonies and from the Continent of
America, leaving no doubt but that the French
or soi-difant French corsairs, have |broken the
lawt of the republic on their cruize and on their
captures ; Considering that Grangers and pirates
have abused the latitude given at Cayenne and'
the Antilles, to the armaments in courfeor in
war aud merchandize jit- cCiicr Mi'fctl tte Pitrw.li
flag their exa&ions and the violations rcf the re
fpeA due to the rights of nations, as well as'to
the perfoni and property of allies and of neu
trals.
ARRETTES;
r. For the frture there flull not be delivered
in the French Colonies of America any r etters
of marque, authorizations %r pirroiflioiis to arm
whether in couWe or in war and merchandize,
by the particular agents of the executive
Direftory themselves, who (hall not delegate
this right to Iny one, and ought not to make
use of it but in favor of tlipfe Ihip owners whose
principles and property are well known to them
and (hall besides be obliged to conform in every
refpeft to the laws on cruizefs ai)d their priies,
and efpccially to that of the ift Oilober i 79^,
o. s.
i. All the letters of marque authorizations,
or prrmifTions granted in the colonies of Ameri
ca, by the particular agents of the Executive
Dirsdtory or dl other ajjenis civil and military
under their orders, to ami in rourfe or in war
and merchandize, shall be coufidered as null and
void after the thirtieth, which (hall follow the
publication of the prefeut arrette in the said co
lonies.
3, Every agent or every one delegated in neu
| tral poffefiions to judge of the validity of priz
-1 es made by French cruizers, and who thai! be
fufpedted to have any interiitt, diredl or indireft
in the armaments in course or in war, and mer
-1 chandize, (hall be immediately recalled.
4. The particular agents of the executive di
> redtory at Cayenne, St. Domingo and Guada
r loupe, (hall watch carefully that the interests
r and property ot neutral and allied veflels be fcru
. pulouflv' rcfpeflcd, and in no cafe can they aA
with their cargoes but to the full and entire (at
isfaition of the two contending parties.
5 5. The said particular agent« of the Execu
tive Dirtisl»ry, tlie commanders of all veflels of
1 the republic, the consuls, vice-consuls and all
others, inverted with powers to this effcA (hall
J cause to be arretted and pur,i(hed, ail those who
(hall infringe the dispositions of the prefer.t ar
rette, which (hall be printed in the Bulletin of
r the Laws, and with the execution of which the
. Minister of Exlerior Relations and of the Ma
s ripe and colonies are clurged.
" (Signed) MERI.IN, Preside.it.
y LAGARDE, Sec. Gen.
i- Yesterday arrived here in 33 days from
1- Cork, the fliip Betsey, Carbcrry. By this
arrival wc are informed, that
" On the 27th of August. about 1800
French troops, principally officers, landed
in Sligo bay, in the county of Galway, and
had intrenched themselves with near y 200
pisces of cannon. They attacked general
Lake in p-afant's'dref<, (he thinking they
were some of the rebels coming to lay down
their arms) and took ten pieces of cannon.
"" Cornwallis, the lord lisutenant of Ireland,
t was preparing to attack them on the 30th
of August. No news of an engagement
had arrived at Cork on the Bth of Septem
ber, when the fleet failed
" The French were beating up for men
E publicly in some of the small towns.
01 " The Betsey failed with the Cork fleet
in company with about 80 fail of Americans
—a lift of tlrem will be given to-n)orrow."
%f)t ,
PHILADELPHIA , h
MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 15. '■
•' TfE r
THE Subfcribcr prematurely borne
fonvard to a Ctuation of high refpon- l '
hopes the candour and con
sideration of his friends, not dwelling on
the errors and wanderings of his career,
will find for them an apology in the ?
heat and Inexperience of Youth. It
hath pleased Heaven to put a period to
the labours of him who had for ten
years conducted tp.publie admiration, the "
Gazette of the United States. Aw a- '
kened from mental diftreis, at the afflict- '
ing bereavement, his fuccdfor feels hiin
felf overcome in the consideration of the v
weighty task which has devolved on him:
He is but too conscious that he (lands v
in " the breach the angry angel made," c
only to render it the more conspicuous;
a breach, alas ! not soon to be filled, i
Notwithstanding the flattering opinions
of friendlhip, which ever watchful for' '
indications on which to ground the' t
mast favourable preciiftions, often ere- 1
ates them by the mere force of imagina- '
tion, he is fearful that his friends wjll
with more difficulty distinguish the mens •
abnormis fapiens y craffaque Alitierva, than t
| tke unattempered fire and indifctetion of '
' youthful inexperience :To them and . '
the Publicj however he pledges the best' (
exeftions of that portion of judgment, :
and of talents, which nature has allotted 1
him : For the reftitude of his intentions,! '
he can with confidence make an high
appeal. Immerging to active life, at a
period big with events of immense mag
nitude—a period at which the world
seems trembling on a point,—on the
mighty turn of which rests happiness or
woe, it will be his highest aim to strength
en the existing barriers round the pub
lic weal, and to contribute in railing
new pillars to the decaying edific? of
public virtue.
It may be of some interest to those
who look for a continuance of entertain
ment and information through the me
dium of this Gazette, to learn the lead
ing features by which it is proposed to
distinguish the publicationOn this
head the Subscriber thinks fit to be
brief 5 and here happily he reflects with
pleasure that his cpurfe is already so plain
ly marked out for him, as*to leave little
to be said, and few new fields to be ex
plored.' ; '-***•'- " r ' ' l
It was his happy lot to be blefled with
parents exemplary in their lives, and
in their end. Hence Is derived the
fwecteft consolation for their loss. It
was their fortune while living to con
tract the esteem of that part of man
kind whose good opinion is mod valu
ble. Hence naturally resulted the fincer
eft sensibility at that dispensation which
removed them to a brighter world. Of
them molt truly may it be faid—Mul
tis ill't bonis flebilis occiderunt.
To point out the cause of this esti
mation, is to illustrate the precise objeft
of his highest ambition. That line of
conduct vi'hich has been found, after a
long course of experience to have con
tracted general admiration and applause,
could not be deviated from without in
curring the just charge of ralhnefs.
And this brings him to state, —That his
constant endeavor will be to conduct this
paper in such manner, (particularly in re
gard to the leading principles of its poli
tics) as to leave the reader as little sensi
ble as poflible, that it has palled into
new hands.
He leave to offer the most heart
felt gratitude for the generous counte
nance and support he has received, and
the most lively and ever-living recollec
tion of the private friendlhip he has ex
perienced ; hoping to bring about the
time when, more than at prefect, he may
be able to derive that in some degree
from personal mtrit, which now he at
tributes to a kind refpedt and esteem
for the virtues of a departed parent.
JOHN WARD FENNO.
, * # * A multitude of letters of bufmefs
I and of friend/hip, demand and will receive
1 ; the immediate attention of the fubferiber.
| I He begs leave to offer in apology for those
, neglefts which have been experienced, the
, scene of severe diflrefs in which he has
. been enveloped. During the life of Mr.
> Cti/hing, the late fuperintendant of the
' paper, he finds a partial attention was
. paid. But since his death and the ficinefs
of my eldejl brother, and two others of the
1 family, and during my long detention at a
diflance from home by indifpofithn, this
„ department necessarily experienced a total
neglesf. The athpr departments of the
bujtneft x through the generous fidelity, zeal, j
md contempt of danger, d'fplayed by the j
jr.trnrjmetl' and apprentices in Ihe office, j j,
| ha-ji been condtiFled in a manner exceeding *
■ the nroft fangu'ne expeElathns. Thrrr gene
rous facrifices to their love and veneration
for my late father, jufiify in my opinion F
this public acknowledgment from me.
addreffed, through the medium *>
of the pvjl office, "will reach me, at Mr. £
Totkgs, Whitehall, where I Jhcdl for the -j
present remain. *
JOHN WARD FENNO.
APPOINTMENTS. £
Woolfey Burton, of Vplaware, Cotnmif- 1
fioner under rite Aft providing syr the va- 1
luaiion of lands and dwelling houses, and ■
the enumeration of (lares, within the Uni
ted States vice Isaac Cooper declined. '
Elijah Brigham, of Maflacliufetts, ditto. '
vice Joseph Allen, declined. t
Cornelius Howard, of Maryland, ditto. ,
vice Robert Gorfuch, declined. i
William HunterDarendifo, of Vi'ginta, •
ditto, vice Janus Brackenridge, declined. «
Mofr» Robinson, jun. of Vermont, ditto. '
vice Elijah Dewry, decline I.
Isaac Alexander, of South Carolina, do.
vice John Chefnut, declined.
Bufhrod Waft-ington, of Virginia, AfTo- .
n'ate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
Uuitsd States, vice Janssj Wilson, deceas
ed. ' — v 1
We are furry to inform the public thai a
number of prisoners confined ia the East I
; Wing of the gaol of this city, 011 Satur-
day evening left,. effefied their escape by
undermining the walls of the prison, and
haye since committed numerous depreda
; tions— Some of them have been apprehend
ed. It is fwprifmg that at this period, or
any other, a fufficient number of men are
not provided to guard so important a pub
j lie edifice. Surely if individuals ean afford
| to employ persons to watch their houses, the
corporation might do the fame, without in
curring the difpleafort of their constituents-
An affray took place lalt evening between
a party of Portugucfc and American sailors,
in Southwark, in which two of the latter
were killed on the spot. Two of the Por
tuguese have been since fafely lodged in
Morris'* building.
Fen wick 8c Skipwith :—par nobile fra
trum.
Citizen Wolf has communed with citizen
Tyger on the profpeft of a final privation of
the fattening fpoili of privateering on the
American commerce ; the refolt is a re
port of the relaxation of the Dire&ory in,
their unparalleled career of baseness towards
this country, by the lufpenfion of a recently
imposed embargo. The charafters of the two
correspondents are such, that it is presumed
a iran would not be accqfed of indelicacy for
doubting their veracity. Buta more impor
tant circumdance arrefls attention in thisbufi
cefs. At the date of S's letter,there had been
ample time for the arrival of the envoy
Logan. The objeft of his million, and his
inftru&ions from the Jacobinic Divan, seem
pretty generally uaderftood to have been
grounded on the eipe&ation of retraining
the Direftory, as far as poflible, from pre£
sing matters to extremities by intemperate
violence. Let yonr fraternal hugs be more
gentle, fays Logan* and they will again
1 bend to your pressure. As the Direftory
• have taken every important movement hither
. to agreeably to the advice and direftion of
their servants the faftion here, it was not to
1 beixpefted that this lad admonition (which
' was deemed of fttffi ient importance to au
■ thsrize the fending of a special envoy) could
fail to meet equally prompt and »mpli<. it at
tention.
V.
£ The above was "written far Saturday's Ga ■
f ze/te, since •when the following has come
l to hand
PARIS, Augtlft 23.
Mr. Pitt's intrigues to kindle a war be
' tween the two Republics of France and
' America are- nearly fruflrated.- The new
. American Envoy, the Brave # L u
j after having (as it is reported) taken the
, advice of f-P* P. and 'K o took the
dircft way. He dined yeflerday at the
house of tbe President of the Diredlory, and
- has procured an arrette which takes off the
- Embargo laid on a great number of AmeriJ
) can vcflels, if not all of them. As it cannot
be supposed that the three American frigates
arid Hoop of war armed againlt France could
" have terrified the Direoiory, we may de
- pend on a solid Peace.
1 * Logan, who left this country about
three months ago.
-j- Tom Paine and Xofciufko.
e Nr-w-Xorh, 03. 13.
y Yefteraay arrived hers his Britannic ma
c jefty's Packet ,in days from Fal
! mouth.
n ARRIVED, Days,
Ship Edinburgh Packet, Leith 48
Hope, Ai)derfon, Bnurdeaux 54
Solomon, Behonag, Hamburgh 90
r - Barque Good Hope, Petres, do. 75
s Brig Hannah, Grener, Bremen 153
'f Schr. Sally, , Washington 14
Indutlry, Galley, St .Bartholomews 30
COLLECTORS OFFICE,
I'HIUntIfMIA, Aaguft 30, 1798.
/ THE bufineU of the Custom House will from
t»i» day be tranfaaed at Chcfter, during the con
tinuance of the fever which new prevails ia thi«
•e city ; and in canfequuice thereof, the merchants
. are hereby notified, that payment of all bondi for
duties to the United Statu, payable at this office,
S may be made either at the Cuf.nm House in Caef
ter, or at the Bant of the-Unitrd States.
Colu itor'j Office, )
a Philadelphia, Aug. 50. J
/ ~ PltEr blight ~
jJ HAS rtfaioved his Counting Houf; to hit
in tht Northern Libmiri Ni'c I'cwn, i;«-
mviptcrvvij roa4. ai.
On the Jrptb of HtLARr BAKET,, £. f .
tie lite Mayer tf Pj.UtdtJjibia.
The dirs.dil'eife,whiih t>roughnurciticsfbidt
Its :nort.-il poifoti o'er our guilrv head*,
At length has levtll'd in the lilent dtift '
The Mm. whom foes and friends aliic could
trust..
When public duty claira'd
Pe ice to preser ve, the genera! wor in mare,
A fhnufand vhftims.by the Fever (lain • "J.
Could raise ro fears, his ardor ro rsllr^in.
No gainful motive, nor ambitious view,
Could luje his foul such labors to putfue
Faith gave him courage, hope ilium'J his eye,
To ft-ek his Saviour, and hlwiielf deuv ;
With elevated trust he looiAl above
F»r surer reEorapenfe than earthly love.
Yet even here the tributary tear
.Shall sadly flow, and grace his honor'd bier.
His fellow-citizens lhall long proclaim
To liflening children Bakik's modest fame ;
Thcmpurnft.l Itory of his dtath (ha'l tell,
Andbid thern live like hiin, like him exeel.
" Friend of our city, pitron of her laws,
" In every dinger faithful to her caufic 1 ,
" Embalm'd, O Baku*, ii)ourgratefulhearti
h\ virtue lies, which all zrooxid impart*
" Its force and beauty, worthy to defend
" From age so age, till time iifelf 4all end ! <
" But our weak praifc, .no laftipg joy conveys {
•' Soon ni'.itt it vanifti in a brighter blaze ' *
" G,o faithful servant of a gracious lord
" Front him receive thy adequate reward.—
LH.
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tenti near ScLuyliitt, fir the
ffi of the. Peer.
a- u j, r ° a - , 3'-
oix bundles of babe clothes separately
wrapped up in each containing
?o puces, front fevcral young ladies
► whose fignattare iV C,
Twelve parcels, each containing 13 pi.-cea
b.be clothes, with a bundle of old linen
and pins, from Mrs. Wm. Page.
Twelve bundles, each containiog 12 piece*
babe clothes, from the ladies of Mr. John
family.
Forty-two pieces babe clothes and five dol
lars, from a lady in PalTyunk road, name
unknown.
A bundle of women and children's eloatljing
from a young lady in Turner's lane.
A bundle of children's cloathing from mis»
Miles, Cbittenham.
One do. do. do. from Mrs Wikoff.
Ore do. do. do. from Mrs E. Bringhurft,
Germantown.
One do. do. do. containing 76 pieces, from
four young ladies reSding at German
town.
Forty-two pair of flioes from a citizen of
Philadelphia, name unknown, forwarded
by Mr. Benjamin btokes.
A cart load of potatoes and pumpkins, with
a bundle containing nine piec-s of fer
viceble cloathing, from Mr. Wikoff, of
Blockley.
Forty bufhelg of potatoes from Mr. Wm.
MLsne.
Two C'irds of wood from Mr. Thomas
Pratt, of Blockley.
Six hundred two quarters fourteen pounds
ry«;3our, icwt I4lbs. tvjteat, lewt. 3qrs.
albs, buckwheat meal, 11 fat sheep, 6
cheeses, 2 bushels of potatoes, and a
quantity of comfortable cloathing, from
several of the inhabitants of Kennet Eafi:
and Weft Bradford, Thorn bury, audi
Newben, in Chelter county, forwarded by
Mr. Phillip Price, junr.
By order of tke Committee.
PETER«MIERCKEN,
Southwark, Oa. 15. Chairman.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
For 48 hours, ending this morning at
eight o'clock.
ADMITTED.
I? ofe Martin, Michael Ccyle,
Timothy Woods, Wm. Leary,
Henry Garli ng, John Allen,
Richard Williams, Margaret Gibbs,
George Taveruer, Jacob Sykes,
Helena Neefr, Wm. Brown,
Elizabeth Growth, Samuel Edenton,
Robert Henry, lfaac ——.
DIED.
Wm. Smith, Joseph Afhton,
Elizabeth Flicker, Rose Martin,
Julius Yoll, Elizabeth Hall,
Nicholas Hynes, A black woman.
Jacob Sykes, Win. Brewn,
Martin Everhcart, , Wm, Moore,
Jane Howard.
Interred from city and suburbs 18
( City Hospital 13
Total 31
| Remaining in the Hospital 85, 45 of whom
are on the recovery.
FORTY-EIGHT rew cases of the
prevailing f c ver, reported by 15 Physicians,
for the last 48 hours.
List of aU the Burials in the J'everel Grave
Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken from, the books kept by
Clergymen, S'xtons , isfc.
Names of the Burial Grounds. ij !
i 12
Chrilt Church - - - . °i 0
St. Pete.'s .... *! o
. St. Pauls >' ®
' First Prrfbvterian - . . 0 0
5 Second Prt-fbyterian • - « a i ®
j. Third Prtlbyterian ... a j ®
5 Scois Prelbyterian - . . 0
- Aflbciate Church . » . 00
St. Gary's Church - - . f 0
Trinity Church ... 10
Friends' - - ... 4i •
Free Quikers' ... °| 0
, S weeds ..... °, •
, German Lutheran - - i» o
r Oermau Reformed Prelbyterian * *
Moravians' - - - - 0 9
i Baptilh' ... . 00
Methodifls' . - - . 00
Oniverfalifts* ...» » 0
Jews' o •
City Hospital - • - - J'i 0
Kensington .... 00
® Coates r s .....
v T\Jal for the hit 48 hours 6a jPROPOSALS, ;
Insurance Company of North A toerica.
Fcr ImcßANtft again,l Fir£, on pwellir.g- }
rioufea, War<s-Hfure». and other Buildings (and '
on Goodicoptaitied in such Buildings)diftant irorti i
1 htladelphia, in the IJnited States.
I. Common lofurancet, rn hazards of the firft
clais, will be undertaken at a premium of ahoiit
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous •
rifques a larger prrir i*m will be required, which
will vary according to circuvft.,nces, feidom ex- I
teeding one per cent, per annum ; bHt in some hi
itances, where the property insured w not only its
jttelf extra hazardous, but rendered f;HI morefo
<e by the vicmjty 0 f c . ;ra hazardous buildings and
Occupations, rhepremium demanded will be rifred
according to circumftaiices.'
Houses atid Ware-Houses, the walls and p*ftiv !
uoiia of which are wholly of .Tor; or brick, well ,
Conjlrudcd, so w to h» guarded as well as may be
agaiu t lireS.froni within, "ants Irce from extra ha
*aru«uß buiWngs and rcccupations intheir
borooon. w/"J| deemed hazardous of tut ifrft
e ' w »y '** infiire-i te tfceirfull value.
Uo Goods and Merchandize, cot o' an extra
iaz'rd°uii >snj, is calks, bales, repackages, de
po l'cd in fticfi buildings, so an amount sot ex
c: e,ihg 4009
is required to be insured in one tenement, an adufe
I"*- premium will be required, in proportion to r
theuiiilJances.
I'. mhirances willalfo be made 0!t buildings and p
'l'" at premiums proportioned g
to t..p .ilfluc. But it is not easy to arrange th. fs D |
-ni r par';cular heads or clafies, so as to defciibe f e
"eh with the necessary accuracy. Each caf». m#ft
ut.fr, e be nccidrd upon according to file iireum-
'•' ,nc< ,a tending it ; and chefe circuniftartces wili, a .
ir <? CR ' cra 'i a pp«r from the description accornpa- f 0
uy'"g the application a<
, Buildings partly conftrucled of brick.or ftoqe, so
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are o»
' low *%» lre iituated, the ricighboring an
buildings, andhow occupied, are confidcrations to aj,
be ta.ten into view. And with refpeit ,t» goods,
their tendency, whrfher from their nature, or n i
from the manner in which thsy-are exposed, either .3
to commence or to incrcafe an accidental fire, and w;
their liability in fuch,ftate to receive darrage by nc
wet, or by sudden aiyl hasty removal, oricru'.-fto- f r<
hli in time of confuiion and hurry, are all cir- en
cumftances of weight; and the premiurtis mufl be !><•
proportioned accordingly. nc
llf. she fallowing cor.ditiont are ttftc under- w<
flood by the parties , ;er
1-t . 1h« insurance is not binding till the. . ftipu
l..t«d premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- Tlr
i cclual 1 tota the time of such payment and accep- lot
"aricc thereof, whether the poiicy be immediately cm
u,:nrd or not.
2d. Insurance* may be renew;J at the expira- of
tian of the term of the policy, without further ex- bat
fe I res thaii the payment of the premium of thcre
liewed term, the circumftanceocontinuing the time the
as they wi re anderilood by the Ipfurers at the time left
th'j former inl'urance was made ; but the payment con
•{ the premium is eH'ential to such renewal ; and han
if the party insured fulfers any time to «lapse after ntr
the expiration B r ; } .\c former insurance, before he j
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured mu
curing such time ; Ror can the insurance b|t rcntw- C ou
ed on the hymer policy hut by computing the tv
conimtncemeptof thercneT,'al frum the expiration cow
of the former insurance. The fohjeit of infur- -all
ancc inay nevcrthrlcfa be open to treaty for a new Ger
mfurar.ee,
3d. If 9» y other insurance be made on thf fame Tas
prorerty ; it must be made known at the rime of sow
ai.j hiiitio.i, Othirwi/'e (he policy made on such ap- f,
plication will be void. , j sca
4th Goods hyld in trust, or on cpnfigpment may
is-jy be infur-d as fnch ip a separate policy; but tanr
tne, are rat ts.be as itifuiedethervafc. pt . n(
s*h. ihw campln, will not be liable or actoun- Cav
tabic ror any loss 01 damage occaiioiitd by any lor- jieitr
> lgn invafioiv, or by any military or ufurpoi force- f
or hy reason of any cjvil c-im»iqt lo n ;or nccafion, the c
cd ny gunpowdei*, aquafortis or other thing of th- pr h
idte kind kept in the building, or amongfl the pro- If
ptrty insured. " Ul]( ii
tth. Biils of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu- fj
r,ties, i itle Deeds Money, Bank and other pro- jeli
milTury Notes, are not included in any infarance j fubft
nor are paintings, iiedal=, jewels, gems, antique
curioijties, or mirrors exceeding the raise of twen- Jm
ty-five dollars each, to be confidsrcd as insured une
!»fs particularly mentioned and by fpccial agree
ment.
>;h. No insurance will be made for a Siorter A
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe-
-ven years. 1-,-rfons choofipg to insure for seven
ywrs (hall be allowed one ytar's premium by way a J.f
of diieount: CJne third 01 a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner cn an insurance far na '
tfcree years. C^ U ®l
tirh. I.ofies fuftaincd by fire en property injured, a
fllail uo paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quiddtion tliereof, without deihiAion. itone:
A defct iption of the property to be infurod will
be expelled with tach application; to be made by ? '^ a '
a r/.aftcr carptnt. r and figr.ed by him, as well as JvT U .
by the owpcr of .the building ot applicant for in- W ' c
furai.ee, and attested before a Notary or principal \
MajjiGraie, who will cectiljr his knowledge of the °. ncl
parties and their, credibility. F air 1
V. ith' relpccl to Houses and other Buildings. " C 0"
liT. 'I he site and position ; describing the n""'
(lreet or load on or near which the building
(tands; its contiguity to water, and other cis- (o i* y
curiillaiUes relative to the extinguilhment of fire q.,
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether e d in
what fire compamesa r e eftabiifhed, and balam
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood, partic
jrf. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of b»ii k, ttone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
pifjuion walls, and their refpeflive height and Ge<
thickneis; lhe ftyje of the roof and of.what
materials; howfecurrd by battlements or par
ty walla,; what kind of aecefi to the top of the AtSo '
hoiift'and to the chimniei ; whether any and
w hat-eit<flric rods i the number and kind of Abe
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
iiim lhe dimenfiens of Hie building and how
•ir ide<l, and the ftyl? in which it is finiflied so •
as to enabic iqdilTerent pcrfons to judge in what
mat'lneV it is to be repaired or rebuilt in caf«,of
injury ; the nge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- *' JO
ling house, or for any other, and for what p«r
pofe , alio an estimate of the value of the houle
ur building independent of the grojiqjk " l
4th. Ti.e situation withrejjicei to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or : u i y
not, comprehending at lealt one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diflauce, how built, of what materials,and i\
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel- •
lings for private families or otherwise : whe- """j",
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car-
riedon, 2nd particularly whether there be any and Bai
extrahazardous articles used, or nfually depo- injap
ited in the house, or within th? distance afore- Sonwd
fait', and of what kind. For t
Keipe&iuggooa's in Houses, Warehoufts, &c.
X. A yeneial description of the building ip julyi
which they are kept will beexpefled, fimiJar in
all relpeils.as to thedirger from lire, with that
icquired fur Insurance on the buildings them- -
fclves
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
lhe goods, whether in c:fks or other packages, r
Or opened ; ar.d whether difplayetl in whole.
pieces or Ui tin uAul form fcr rcUiliOg- And 1 '» Cl
* * 91' gUi
f
j' o ' lr gftod* varv Matei'iilly in kind, 2 general
| Connate of the value of each kind' proposed to
< be insured ; btit m the tail particular minute
| nets of description is not expelled.
inca. : 3■ Articles of the followiag kinds are deem
'clHr.g- (fd extra hazardous, variovs degrees,
»s (and ' w batrtcr bwildi«j> they mty be placed, viz.
Mfrorti i P IU 'ir.t.irperftiue, rol'n, wax', tallow, oil,
inflammable-lpirifs, sulphur, hemp, flax,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.—
le 6rR Ghl's, china wire or porcelain, elpecialiy uu
ahont packed; Looking glaflis, jewelery j andallo*
:ardo'js • ther articles msi t than commonly inflammable,
which or n:ore than commonly liable to injury by fud
ons cx- t den removal of by moistures, or particularly
>me in- obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire,
nly in Letters p®if paid, direifled to the Secretary of
iu,r ° the Board of Direflors, will be duly attended
Ji", to ' An orJfr for Insurance accompanied by the
• ral c means ot"paying the premium, will be irnme
pc. si diately executetfon the premium being plid. If
■ well '' ,e a PP'' C4t ' 0n contain an enquiry only, it will
, bejnfwererl.
hi Br order of the Board,
.kBEHETiER HAZARD, Src'ry.
it ifrft Offi" G f th* irtfyrance Oompany o/NortU )
America ; fhilad. Feb. i, , 79 g. {
l eitra l'eb. 14. .■ t lamrf
ot et Mil Is, Portage, See.
is sum TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS
ad ~1,- _
on to rj- obe leafed, for a terns not leh than three,
1. Nor more than seven years, a VALUAILK
js ind FROPI RI'V at the Seneca-Falls, In the county of 1
' onc . 1 nd ft at 3 of New-York, on the Banks
th ,e D f t i le two miles well of the Cayuga:
Ift f " ry ' * ni f,eTen milesea ft ol 9«neva.
N.u.i This rftablirhnient confifl sos an excellent grift.
' niill, fr.w mill, dwelling house, barn, an.d a port e
will, or or place, with between thirty and v
n, P a * forty jcres ol land, under geod improveinentyand n
as niuc't more ill the vicinity, as 9iay be required c;
lone, .or future improvement, ' ii
Che grill mill is a handsome, new and wellfin v.
e . oc " ifiied boiWing, of 50 by ,?o'feet,'3 (iories high 4
3r,n g an ; furnilhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
ns to and another of Efopus' stones, of the iietl quality
ouds, r-j»nd the ir-oft approved Uollts, Btc, calfulated te
\° r n,a,:c all the different qualities of flour for «xpor- I
ither tatien Qr for home consumption : It is ecceflibk by
a«d water from ev<ry part of the Ceyuga lake and if- Ic
: V y neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake— and '
fromirt situation, commands a veryextenfive ahd '
cir- rncreafing enjlom : The dream on Which it star.de, 5 1
«be being the outlet of the "Sereca-lakc, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and m it has been kept
working Juring the severest season of thtf latt win
ter, it is not liable to hy
ipu- fie alfo of-w, lituate,: on the fnrfie 0|
el- ftretm, now furnilhed with an ample {lock of
cp- log», of which c supply may »t all times be pro
tely cured by land or water, of the bell quality :. ' at
r:» dwelling house is well calculated for the use
lira- of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laij;e : The to
ex- barn it about 4c feet square, and entirely new : M
rt " t. r ' >e f ortafe ' e " i"4thsof a mile it| length, along Pr
the Beneca-fal!»—over which were paifed in the act
lme Uft year, aetriy two hundred beats vyith their fla
'ent contents ; this object is airily produflivs of a u
»nd handsome income, which mull be increafini; and
fter permanent: •> : : "* '
:be Among the many adv mtages of this situation,
red mud be nunibered the fertility of thcfiirrcsnding
tw- country—being the ball improved part of the coun
the ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter
ion toifrfe by land and water, the •en.lfce flateroad nfl
ur- t pal«ng throdgh it, as well as all water carriage to 0"
!CW Geneva, and the counties of 'JntariQ and Stcitben ; tw <
which renders it 4 moil eligible ftaad for a Store or 4 ( ' e
me Tavern—The river and lajces abound in fiih and ou '
:ot fowi, and the country with dctr and o:h«r game. unt
>p- Befidcs 'be mills already ere<3ed at this plac;, it ent
is calculated for ar.y additional water Works liiat aB '
nt, maybe I'und nccelfary— J-'ulting mill, Ka'tli h-if) ■'«
Jut tannery, forges, &d may be ercikd at a faulfex- nc4
e. pence—lron ore may be brought in boatslrpm the
in- Cayuga lake ; and it is tL»«ght to akound in the ce "
'r- fieighborbood. be i
te- TfijjQock on hand w : Il he fold tenths !<flee, and ate .
in, trte cattle, utennls, fmith'6 forge, jcc. may bgjold
»- pr fct tbe prcmifes. yer;
to- If apurchafe (houtd olier for th? whole or an,
undivided part ef the preiaifes it will b<; fold. P r ' v
"- f'' terms of sale or lease, apply to mr.' \jr,i.. the
o- >ZLMosMTN»Eitsi, at the Seneca falls, or to the
e; fubferiber, at Schene&ady. s<
ue STEPHEN N. BAYARD. ~~
„e '"""j tS '
e- Federal Mills, -A
A DJOINING Georgeto%vn, and the City of I 1 0'"
' ■*- Walhington, will be offered at Public Sale, ~" u!
mi the loth day of Septamber next, at the Onion .
" Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale. ltcu
Tbole mills in point of situation for bjfiuefs and oiß ''
■ r na 'n«l advantages are generally admitted to be J u
to a,ny in America. The Merchant Mill is
A a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
•J new;, in which are ereitcd fonr pair of Burr mill- T T
fton«s_with e'.evatcri, hopperboys and bolting 1
I] cloths," completely finifted and confirudlcd in such Es ' ;l
a manner that the whole of the mills may mami- inco
failure flour at the fame time. The countrv mill E;lft
which is ereifted near the other, is entirely' new, "
a j a flrong stone building, containing «ae pair of af 1 u
ic stones, and built in such a manner that the fecosid "* '
pair may be put up with littWexpescel Thismill P ut -'
is conveniently finilhed, and calculated to carrv on , Tt
cxtenfively, country work, of which it gets a con- " A 1
ftant supply. f here is belonging to the said mills tralft
S> 27$ acres of land, the whole of which will be varie
fold with the milt's. best ;
e ®ne third of the purchase money will be rcquir- A 1
r ed in (ixty days from the dav of sale, and far the Ford
u balance a liberal credit will be given. Further eDce
I. particulars will be made known on the day of lile. from
JOSEPH E. ROWI,.ES, f r " m
f Surviving partner of •• wo
r JOSEPH E. ROWLES Co. Tc
j Georgetown, ju!y at—lawts !n
! " LANDING, quirc
C At South Street wharf, the cargo of the ftip Con- e '
j neilicut, from Bata via—
f About 300 tons of Java Cuffee,
°f thegiowthof 1794 and 1755 HP*
6° tons of Jara. Sugar, H a' r k
f Intrfnnifters—for falejby ten,
f PETER SLIGHT, prefei
WHO ALSO OFFSRS fan S A LX, | e r s({
150 hhds. choice [amaica Sugars „r/l»-r
Jamaica rum in hhds _
; Brandy 1 ft'and 4 th proof in pipes, hhds. bnVoi
• and quarter calks out 01
Madeira in pipes beam
Old Batavia Arrack lays a
july % * taken
—> - ■ ■ - y p.*
FOR SALEr~ * maki!
on the road leading to State Idand, Newb
within four and an halfmiles oi Philadelphia,
containing4sacres in tlie highest (W of cultivation
—95 acres at whir.h is msadow, the remainder up
lMid. 1 here areoa the premises, a new frame House
a*d with ao sxcflleitt contain- A
ing number of frit Treea.—lmmediate poffcf- situate
Gon will be given. tlvimr
For term, apply ,0 J *
Thomas W. Fronds, I incline
jalyiß» No."9BSouih Third flreet; • Juhd (
To be Let, ~~j ju t y
An airy three Story Brick House, j ~
QN the »cuth fide of F.lbert Btr«t,8 t r«t, betwe-n ly T(l ,
KJ F.ighth and Ninth street, formerly otcneied
as the Surveyor General's Office-—Enquire at No I
■ it, Chcfriut Street,
anguft XQ, « sic june
.
w w DUTY 0* CARRIAGE! I
itriute _ T . .
Notice is hereby given,
deem- TTIAr »grc-:ab!y to an a.il of if
grees, -*■ United States of Ameri<-a, at P>Ha<
I) viz. delphia the 48th «iay of May, f776, Ifciyhjg sfyjl
t, oil, l ' es on carriages for the ctMiVey.rtiCd of.prrfyas, STnd .
otton, repca ll "St tile former a*£U for that pwroolV*—That
led.— there belt-Tied, eolleiScd an t p«il, upon .11
y un . eatri?ges for the ••invyaucf; nf perfoH4, u hicil ..
a ]J 0 . ™ ; " ®> e e Pt. hy <& for any person, for his oj btr j
nable, ° W " U^e ' or te ' €t out to f° r the convey- j ,
r fud. ! rtg P a ® Bn E er *» the several and rates M- |
■ larl* i° W,n S; Tiz - • dolls. ! '
/ For and upon every coach 15 1
r upon every chariot ji 1
. upon every poit diarist ti
enuett , upon every ;,olf ch-ufu Ii 1
' ' e upon every pha:*o«, with or without top 9 1
mme- . upon every ce.ichee 5 1
. 1 u p° n other carriage!, having panne] 1
; W " J work aho»r, with Blinds, .glaflis, C 9 1
or .curtains 3
upon four-wheel carriages, having") '
rj- frame pott« and tops", with fled C 6 (
> j fpn!i.'> • 3 i
J upon four- top carriages, with "» 1
riff Wooden or iron fjirings on jacks j 3 f'
upon curricles' with tops - v
Upo;i chai'.es virh topa '» j
ne upon chairs with tops ' 2 j;
sponfultie» with f#}i» 3 ( i
upon other two wheel top carriage? 3
bree, upon two wheel carriages with ilccl> " ~
BL *- or iron fpriogs c 3
ty of For and upon all other two wheel carriages 1j °
!an *' s "pon every (oar wheeled carriage, - ) - C '
"W- having franved p?fls and topi,C 1 ' !!
awl relling upon wooden spars \
gn.t The Coileelprof the rftvenue ol the fir ft divifiou ?
?ort of the Crt! lkrvey of (be ditfricSi of Peiinfylvania,
and will attend daily until the 30th day of Septum! er
r an(i next, for the Ruiyofe of receiving the dutie» on
nred carries, at Germantoivn, en the Main ftr«t, a al
little above the fijti of the King of PruHia. of dl
Ism which all persons pofieffed oi such carriarc. ate »
deftrcd to take noticp. ~ le
tiity Notice is also given, ° f
dto f , r ° a " "; a:i dealers in winca and foreign distilled
por- 'pirituoua liquors, that licenfcs will be granted tl>
tby !.• one licence lor carrying on the business of pr
retailing Of win tin a lefj quantity, Or in less fn
■and "'Wities, than gallons—and one licence for "!
ahd * rr )'ing on the business «f retailing spirituous li«
r.dc, 3 UO " ! n lcr!) quantities than twenty gdlons, at the of
cau ® e tinic and a£ tJle place, by • tic
lept JAMES ASH, or
v;n- Col.e«or of the id divifiou of the ift
Survey of thediftriil of Peuniylvania. 'hi
iiiie n^P rt at GcrmantoWD, "> iki
of J*- 1 * Augult, i 7 981 ,t \ th(
.to- v 7 tw.ry denomination of Stamns to be Had for
at laid cihce. . dej
use "1 he Stamp Prds is removed th<
Ihe to the Oflice of liifpe.Sion in Germantown, oli' the 9,11
Mai. -.reet, a little afcove the fg-j of the King of m i
ing I niffia,-. where attendance will be given for the as
the accommodation of thole who n ifh any inflr r.nunts cla
_eir llampcd, 011 i'uefdays, Tliurfdays and fcat*r<fi!Ts. r es
Fa : ugusta 21 ' rol
! nti : _ the
oß| For Sale at Public cl *
»S -», . ON'tHE PREMISES,
in- on rtarpermd Keith's wharf, in °" C
ft- X Alexandria, op the a6rh day of O(2ober '
; jj next, if rot fold at piiva'e Tale before that time.
ro One of these lots is near the end of the wharf, '
n ; twc.ty feet which the wafer Utwp f*tbomi , „!
or a out forty feet out three fathoms, fifty feet
n j out tne wstec is f our fathoms, and grows deeper Un
ie. u, 't'l it contps to the channel, whi:h is stout ftv- '
j t enty feet from the end of the whirl. 1 here is 1
, at as much dirt lolonging to Hie bauk as will level q IJa
if) ' e wharf, which n;ay want riifing about a toot hav
x- "e-'t the en;!, ri/teis in this file an half'acre lot I'M
he very lit for a tavern • it is wall witered, and hn ex- ong
|j e cellent ilaml ior ilidt In'fintfs, This propcrtv will CXCi
bt fold for ready money, an«l altngether or i'epar- mae
ate, as may bell fait the purchaser ; it fays on tlif fhal!
Id cf which is imw injprovinp; t7it
VI ry fail. A fcctch ol the ground may b-' f«ien in ther
ln- the hands of the Printer hereof. For terms'at litis
P" v "* "iPy'y to V/» Hartsiiohnz, or to fann
l- 'he lubiertber, inAlexandria. ,
« , JbHN KARPF.R.
3 :»vvßw |" n ,.
Wants Employment, ijeix
A YOUNG MAN, who hasfervetl a regu- .
lar apprtnticef})ip to the mercantile hull- ,J?TJ
neld in tins city, wiflies to engage in a Conutinst .. aU
L', ~" U J writes a good hand and under- f un , £
II '' anf ' s accounts, can be well recommended ar.d ue
fccunty given if required. inquire at the
d olßi eof this Gazette.
e J " Unf " - »awtf •
I Ballcenridge— for iale
- T T of 920 acres, almo.l a ll of tvfcich is
S n fre r ' C 1^ ca < ( th e refidcnceof the late
JJurl oi Sterang). It may hcronveiiuntly duijed
- l^ C » I VC ! 3ro l"' '" our which are hounded on the Dei
II E:;ft by the river Pafaiek.
', / . Th ' rr " e on , it 11 number of build,"rig., forming
f a square of nearly three aercs—The dwelling house
j is a very convcirientone and|aftr.all £ *pence would
j put.ttin complete repair.
1 The orchard coniiftt of 1 joofin.bearingengraf- C
. ed Apple 1 rees—and there is on other parts of said tice
» traA ncar r 3°o other Appre frtes-as also a great
, variety of other fruit., particularly Cherries of the '
heft and »ioft delicious kinds. gref"
• „ A1 < [°' a n "™ her »( Ucaiitiful Exotic, and
. Foreftlneos, that add t 9 th< beauty and eonveni- the 1
• cdcc of the place. Its situation is abcut 18 miles the
. J rora toyniof Newark and Elizal eth : 10 do. r
from Morns-Town, and 12 iror* Springfield-It E
is wooded and watered. di'V <
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre cour ,
m eafli, on delivery ot the deeds. Pieafe to vn-
Uirc °' T. McEUHN & Co. Con<
ebsuary a. No. ? 8, Chcfnuyreet. I n
latent Ploughs, the";
T» befoUfor «fh.by Joseph Salter at AtCon
X UK-hard Wells, Coiper's Ferry-jonathan
Harker, Woodbury-and Jelle Evans, Lumber- . ,
ten, i he.t who have tifed them give tbcm the J"''!
preference to any other kind, as tbey require
ler»team, ureik the ground better, are kept in
" " le s s e *P e "« and are fold at a che,per „
plan is much limplified aiid consists of
but one piece of call iron, with the handles Ind ;hat T
beam of wood; they may befixed with wrought - I > e
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and that "
taken off at pleasure. public:
Patent rights for t ending with infth..aions for r3,,gcn
making (hem may be had by applying to IOKI, r ,eara "
Newbold, or the fubferihj No. "f 2 N,mh or the
Front-street.
WL» hat for Sa/e;
Or to Leefe for a term of Tears, T TT'
A number of valurtle tr*A» of I and, w ,n l/l,
situated for Mills, Iron A'ork.i Zf V V
ly improved, lying chitfly in the county of Hun." Tm"
tingdon slate of Pernifytvjnu. Those who may °
incline to view ikcm will pleaTe to apply ,n my
JiJin Canaii tfq. near Huntingdon. sbie in
. , Claries Ntwlold. liundr<
' 7 «wtf cents.
for sale, c 2!t l
Pa ' db >
18 Bags Frefli Cloves. ' rccove '
j« B e, a . Francis.
dti auguC
- ■„
' ' Por its* , tlief df Ibe Refugee! frO.A tbg Bni'Jh
prav.nceSte/'CaaMiia arid WfVB-ScotiM*
. l)Ett tnc.cied by the Senate and House
of th» '''JJ qf Hepir/erjtath'ts cf the United
P>rb* St'afes if Antbriea, in affembtefi
ig dv- ! to. fitisfy the rfiiias of certain perfoßS claiming
is, i:id : lanJj updi*r the resolutions ot Congress, of the
-That tweoty-third of April, one thouiand seven hun
-011 nil ,j re( j Jn( j ciohty-threc, the thirteenth of
Which |. April, one thotlfand seven hundred and eighty
htr j five, if tdwiti frora the Brittfh pnovinccs of
Caiiida and I,'ova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
I nepartmeiu of War, be, and is hereby autho
*' | ri?ed ,-.n,d (iirciled to giye notice in one or more
or the public papfcrs at each of the State* of
J Vermont, Mafi'iohi;i r etts, New-York, New
j Hamplhiro mil to all perlons hav
ing oljijCp- ur.dcf ihe said refolutiuns, to trgnf
' ' ir.it t.ithtf . within tvo years after
j the piliiug of this aiil, ajuftand true account
f n sf th«ir claims to tfie bounty of Cosiirrf!>.
' See. 2. Atf3 ie it further enufiet!. That no
,-j other personS Inatl be entitled to the benefit of the
it si provifons of this adl, thantbofeef thefrllow
-3 in; deicriplions, crtheir widows ind heirs, viz.
First, those heads of families, and tingle per
j ■' sons, not members of ar.y such families, who
3 were l clidents in one of the province* afore/aid,
.1 prior to the fqurtb day of July, one thousand
2 (even hundred and fcverity-lix, and who ?ban»
5 doned their fettlcmentii, in coufequenceof har
-3 ing give 1 aid to (he United Colonies »r Statesj
? in tlit.revolutiona.-y War agaiwll Great-Britain,
J or with intention to giye such «d, ard continu
-1 j ed in the United SUWs, or in their fcrvice, dur
/ } ing the said war, and did sot return ta reside iu
C 1 1 the dominions of the jting of Great-Britain,
Ilion P r ' or t0 t ' lf twenty-fifth of November, one
fn ;, tlioßi'iad f'eyen hundred an>l cighty-;hr£e. Se
rJ eoiitiiy, the widows and heirs of all such per
, on l.!ns as ivere aSual residents, as aforei'aid, who
;t, =. "handoned their settlements, is aforefaid, md 1
1, ef within the United States, or in their fer- 1
s are vice durii^'the fjid war : and thirdly, all per- 1
sons v. fco were members of families at the ti«i« '
of their earning iKo the United States, and who
111 <J llr ' n g 'he war, entered info their service. '
j Sec. f. And it it further eimfied, That the '
fs of P rofl * : ( hc several circumfta*ces neeeflary to
less *' nt ' , ' e t ' le the '.icncljts of this a<s), c
for " ,a y he taken.before a judge of the supreme or f
s li. diftridl c(>urt cf the onited States, of a '
the °f the supreme »r superior court ,or the fit It j»fi
ticeorrfrft jntlge of ihe court ot common pleas f„
or county court ol n>y,
ift Sec. 4. And te it further en/tflrd, That at f u
li'a. 'h« expirationof fifteen months from and after St
the palling 6f this ads, and from time to time f u
thereafter, it shall be tiie (I »ty of the Secretary be
fiad for the Department of Warj to lay fyrb evi
dence of claims as hemay have received, before
ed the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
the an( ' w ' l '' them, proceed to txaminc the tefii- -
•of m °nv. 'nd l!' ve thejr jiidyment what rjuantity
the ' an( ' oujfht to be jilowed ta the individual T
nt 6 claimznts, }.i proportion to tfie decree of thejr 'Jt
:ys. refpeiilivc services, facriiices and iu6feripgS, in be
consequence of their attachment ta the cause of Si
the United Stages j <\U/>wiji3 t» those ef thefirft
clfflj a qijj,tftyno|excj^|inj;onetlj>oufaD(}acres; in;
ari3 in the iafi i iafii, a quantity not exceeding to'
one hundred, making foch intermediate elafles on
as 'he relolu'.ions aforefaid, an 3 diftrtbHtivejuf
-18 tic e, tpav, in thsir»,judgment rf-quire, and make art
r f' ' eport thereof, to Congress. Aad in cafe any
mi !' claimant shall have fnftiined such lolTw and a.
jet 't»(Teriaf<, or perfprmed fiicb? services for tjw 10
ier fitted States, tljat hp cannot jyjMy \tc classed
v- "»y one gea;ra| elafs, a separate report fhill Cf
is be made of liii; circumftaijces, together with the M;
, e | quantity of land that «u;rht to be allowed him. 141
ot having relerence to rhe foregoing ratio : Pro— ]
ot Tided, that in conlvJering what 1 ompenfitiott arr
x.' ou»ht to be made by yiftue of t.'iis ifl. a ! grants
ill excepr military grafts, which nuv haw- been s F
r- made by the United States, or individual States, g r
lie' shall be confidewd at-tjie iuft q-j _ __ s
ig tfie time tlie refpeAivcly, ci- sirs
in ther in whole or in part, M the cale may be, a t ) le
at latisfadlion to those who may have received the be
to fame : Provided alfi, that So claim under this
law, shall be afTignable until after report made ba
to Congress, <w i.'yre.faid, apd until the said
. lands 'lie granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this a^l.
1. . Sec - 5- [t further etiufied, That all cbims J
J. 1,1 virtue of said resolutions of Congress, wl.ich
shall not be exhibited as aforeiaid, within tlie
. time by this a<ft limited, (hall forever thereafter
" be baited. * ' F
, JONATHAN DAYTON, 1
Speaker of the Hottfe rf Reprefestatives I
TH 1 JEFFERSON,
Vitt-PrtfAent of the United States,
. and Prefidtnt of the Senate, hee
is Approved, vfpril 7, 1798. n„,
e JOHN- ADAMS, and
d n r Prefiden!of the United States.
c Deposited among the Rolls in tke ..ffice of the
"Department of State, viri
g TIMtTHY PtCKKRINS, tsh(
j V Secretary cf State. i ' rft
a —any
i . to the above All, No- fe,
1 tjee is hereby given to all persons lvav- flckl
| ing claims under the resolutions of Con
grefi, of tin- 23d as Apfir, 1783, OTC I and
! thc r of April, ,785, totranfmitto g
s, the War-Office within two years after to t!
• the passing of -the said Aft, viz. the 7 th ?J*'
day of April, 1798, a j u ft an j true ac<
; count of claims to the bounty of wi i h
Congress, ' y
In the proof of Claims, a ftriftatten- orcc
tion mull be paid to the rerjuifitions of "oil"
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft. I i^pc
JAMES M'HENRY, tend
. Secretary ,f War.
———l. * - _L
AURORA OFFICE"
i _ Gaoler to, 1798. . *
•ha t TH P iavm E circulated 1
-The nuldir f T " 0t rc -'«hi;aied. nil'.el
,.ve,i a.,; S
praSTslof T "° W a » aflure the an- all I ,
—-
CAUTION. ; :Tf
WHER, AS a.cerijiii. p tl fonrwj„t!l v - d .T
From m< o. tbe tin' inft. by ' F
rt «k.odiheß4,.£ »««!(
ff Nort., America V of that d#te, drawn
•n my favour by Mr, J t hn Travis; J p I" ««-
jtjie in fix months, foi ilirec thoufinrl ! r^-r
hundred and fifty ff«
cents. ALL petlons are de-lired not tn V'"
WILLIAM NICHOLS, ' '
«»su!i c. iiau j H .
ri this Day Publijhed '■
And for Cileat the Office of theEdjtor, N# ,
■ r 119 Che. r ai:: ftrcet,
t/n;W CT'Jff *- % th *f a DoHwJ
U Tt t ' M Q,RATION, |
liming , V" Pronounced Jwy 4*1798,
of the '"ercqueft of the Inhabitants of the Ton n e f
n huß- BOSTON, in tocufatrtl iration of the iuiii
i'h of wfery of American Independence,
ighty- By JoStAB QyjNCr.
iccs of " The inroads upon our public liberty, call
'or the f° r Tcpjration—The wrongs we have fuftaiqed,
jutho- C4 H for—Justice. That. Reparation and th.t
mure J u stice, niny yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
let of Firmness. But to divide and conquer was
New- t ' le maxim of the Devil in the garden of tden,
i» hav- a "d r ° diuihite-iwlenslave hath been the princi
tranf- P' e ot a " his votaries from that period to the
after preknt."
:ci;unt Obiei vali4iu un the Boston Port-Bill, ~<Jc.p. 78
'tbilate J. Qrtincj, jiui.
iat no -august u
"IT. TREASURY department,-
>. viz. Joni 27, I7OS.
• per- lSJ OT,G2 15 H f REBV «rVKN, That by vir
who tu « of an »St, pallid during the present fef
e/aid r ' on Coutrrels, so much of the aft entituled'
ufjnd " An Aa making further provision for the fup
„e-,. " P ort P u ' > '' c credit, and for the redemption
' " ° f the publ>c debt"—palled the third diy of
March, one thoufmd seven hundred and lincty
tates» fiv ,. as b3rs f roai f ett j e . nent of allowat^
itain, Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and*
'tinu- final feiticment Certificates, and Indents of In
dur- ferefls, isfufpended i*itil the twelfth day J
dctu June, which will beir. the year oaeehoufand leven
itam, hundredand ninety u;n«.
one That °n the liquidation and fettlcnient of the
Se- said Certificates, and rodents of lateral, at the
per- Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to'receive
who Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
md to the amount of the fsid Indents, and the arrear
• fer- ages of interefl due on their laid Certificates, prior
per- to the firil day of January one thousand feveH
ti«n« hunrfrrc and ninety one.
who That the principal fumsof the f-id Loan 03ic«
and final settlement Certificates, with the interefl
the 'hcrfon, fn.xe the firft day ol j-.nuary, one thou,
(o fjnd (even hunted atjd. ninety one, will bedif
ail, charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
» payment of interett and rcimfcur&mem of princi
id >e l f '> e qual to the fmtn which would have been
• s P'rabi* thereon, if the said Certificates had been
)leas [ J ft' r " rri f nt to thu A<sls m aking provision
ffir the debts of the United States, contracted dur«
ing the late v.ar, tpi'd by the payment of other
ft 3 V""V e "? al to the market value of the rertisinins;
; Stocky which would have been created by such
lm< fubferiptions amforefaid, which market value will
lacy be determined by .the Comptroller of theTreafury*
' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary vf lie ?'reafury.
■2- '" ne 2 * latrtf
ity General Poft-Oiifice,
■?' PROPOSALS for carrying the mails nf the
elr United htates on the following' routes will
in be received at this ofBc? until the acth day of
of September next Inclusive.
rft FfomPittfburg P. by Can»onfc'!rg, Waft
's; mjton, Weft-Liberty, Wheeliny and Wrfls-'
jig town to Xanes at the mouth sf Licking-crcek f
fes on tie Mufliingmn, eflimated 140 miles,
ui- Leave Pittfburg every Friday at ap. m. aruf
ke arrive at Zines th« next Monday by BP. M.
Ny Returning—Leave Zanes'every Tuesday at f
n A - M : and arrive at Prttfburg the next Fridavbv
jre i. m, ' . ' .
ed 2. from Zaircs, at the mouth of Lickinp
•tU Cr<?ek qn the Muftingum, by Cbiiicothe and
he Malley's to Mayfvilte in Ker.tucky ; estimated
140 railea.
<?-' Leave Zanes every TweWjv at fa. M. and
»ti arrive at Mayfville the next Friday by !o a.m.
its Returning—-Leave. Mtyfville cvtry Friday by
sh 2p. m. and arrive at Zauestbe next Monday br
'•» BP. M. ; ~ *
" cf tl:ei?;aTrrt«c«mmeneeo n the
fir " of Noven.licr next and continue until
a the firft day of OJKber iScp. Payment* will
DC mar'c qu irfei'ly.
19 The lifujl penalties for drlays and failures wiK
fe ba stipulated ir. rjie eontra<3.
't WabcrJJjam,
p. .. . Pcjl-Mnfter General.
is "htlaclelplira, July
h HEALTH OFFICE. ~
te '
r , .
Tfv'w k- ft^ toalter aod-smcisd the Hcalt*
1708 Coh.monweaiih, faffed 4th ApHl
SeS. 8? A it fui ther enaifled by the aft
. t'.T th * ri tyaforcfaid.. lhatevc-ry houfe
&ofX N f thc to «'n.
thips of the NortiK-rnl.iberties';ind Moyamuifi D ?.
and ddlrvil of bouthwark, wirhm a inilu of the li
orbvh// io fe»
: y Hd, foreign port or place,''andha
iri;any boaruer in his or ller family, >vho fnaii be
taken fiek of any dif-afe wh.irfoever, ba:w«"n the
firft day ot May and the fitft day of November in.
d', ij' Wlrhia Jays next after such boar
>- w,h 11C t0 ge in or Iler hou <e, "lalt
hours next after.the knowledge of lueh
" [ q '° rt st rlle Health.Offiee of the
name ot such sick perfop, the time of his or her ar
nval „ th e houfc , nl oi |^ of tale^££
Seen rtl WM ° ! abodeot house* '
0 k Z h " C T" w of the Health
r to the !ff e r W,th . Vili ' ,he ratient, and report
! r k ,' s oß'n.on of tht nature of fuchdif
-1 P ' "waft*** tnay be taken to ptevtnt the
{(IT "f C i tha '." icH ' on > ,f »nd if any hoofekeeper
' whh f • tog, r "• forn,ation i'ltf.e ivannerard
f timC *f°ra?d, ai:d laajl .be thereof con
,ht r * nycou f tol c iurisdie'tion within.
this CoinmonwesUh,. Upon indiame, thy verdlft
. or confrffion, he or she Ln l.r.eit aid bay , f'>
co the use of the laid hefp.tal, wot less th in twtn r 1
t collars, nor more than ont hundred dollart, to be
7° at n the of fh= court, according m
thecii cumflancej ofareateMr' less aggravation at
tending each par-VicuW ;. "
. By order of the Board of Heab'i
W ,'vl. A rj.l;HealthQd(cel?,
" '."'.y 3 "'.. "- r the Port ot PhSladelnhli,
• 1 d?d' arC hereby infor me4
i I 4NISiS sr £r ife ~? oL w,,:
tin ,ef& recovered by | w . m ' _ t w C , l ' " oc l'*7f,
1
■ ccrcly lament his \o[* -nH t i r f »,- t R ' 1
: ■
august 7 JOHN TRAfJS.
vti Friday's. Thr"n>w7 i c 1
'dt-:ceV; e yi3M Svill |^ econtinti
r?g-.rd tp the ejmeV'V CX^',lment 1£ made in
packets.. of the
lettersL. frnt Ik- J an j , u ""' tr> l,ave their
*ritc won]
Wlle.tnev -.'ill |„.
wsH firft finrt ar'rer >vhich '
pofi-efiicc. ?,ÜBur e left in
y°f c p'>
j **•••( G ""'i