. lMill I
DUMBER 1894.J PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 12,1798. [VOLUME XIV.
Tilt(sa?ette. |
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENINO, OCTOBER li. W*
COMMERCIALLY IMPORTANT. men'
„ Yesterday arrived at Chester, the ftiip fcreil
Franklin, Eapt. Jones in 34 days from
BourdeaCtx. By this arrival we have re
ceived the following important letter. It Ship
may be relied on as authentic, as the signa
ture of Mr. Fenwick is in his own hand S
writing. We expeft a regular file t)f French Fair
papers by this vessel—As soon as received e F
the mod interesting of their contents will t0 J
be laid before our readers. . S
(COPY.) foil
Paris, Aug. 21 ft, t 798. J6 1
Joseph Fenwick, Esq. Bourdeaux.
Dear Sir, J
Thinking it as agreeable to you, ds in- w^''
tereßing tb oiir commerce, I hasten to in- °f
form you 1 have received to day an official av '
copy of the arrete of the Dirt-dory, taking coni
off the embargo laid on our vessels. This
ttrrete is not yet piiblifhed, but I hope it *
Will be soon in every port of France, knd of an^
tourfe put to execution. ' al * e
Yours truly, ton :
FULWAR SKIPWITH. tak.
Tiue Copy,
Joseph Fenwick. in^
_ Ho
Chester, OHobtr 10. c £
, ARRIVED. Iheii
Brig Eliza, Peterfon, from Leghorn pian
3£[C
A Gentleman who camt in the Eliza, politely
handed the following information. 1
« The Eliza was captured on hrr outward lher
passage by a corvette of the French repwb chic
lie and earned tp Ajaccia, in the island of re P'
Corsica, and at the expiration of one month
after her capture, was liberated. The ex- on;
pences which accrued in obtaining the libe- to a
ration of vessel and cargo, were very confi- j™'
derable ; as it was necessary to bribis almost cvel
all the public officers in the port. Captain the
Dyre, late of the schooner Variety, of
Dunbury, came passenger in the Eliza, his 0|
vessel was condemned in Ajaccia. His pa
pers weVe in the mod perfeft order; was 1
bound to Leghorn, from Duobury. His
cargo, which was fifh, was aftually caught t0 ,
on board the schooner in which it was ex- eff<
ported, accompanied with every document
to prove it American property; and that 1 * *
the fifh was cured in-the United States. Yet Ma
the whole was condemned as English fifh, I
and a» being English property, upon the
most frivolous and inconfiftant pleas. the
The Eliza left Leghorn the 1 ath August, q U
•when it was currently reported that a most I ty
•desperate engagement had taken place be- n u
tween the French fleet in *hich Buonaparte bei
had embarked, and the British fleet com- da
manded by admiral Nelson, near the island C al
of Candia. The result was (as was gene- Ei
rally believed) that Bttonaparte was a pn- th
foner on board the Culloden, commodore t h
Trowbridge, and that Nelson was dead. 0 f
One report was, that he was killed in the f e ]
action ; another, that his {hip, a 74, had de
. grapled the L'Orient, the French admiral s l e |
ftip of 120 guns, that After a most trertend- th
«us conflift, the L'Orient funk, and before hs
Nelson could clear his grappling irons, he la,
was carried down with her, and all on board la,
perished; that the command had devolved ar
£n Trowbridge; and that he captured Bu- ,h
onaparte endeavouring to escape in a small
veflel, which he had ready for that purpefe. hi
From the foregoing, and the accounts C i
which were prevalent in Leghorn, it was e <
generally believed that Buonaparte was a t i
prisoner. The accounts upon this mterek- 01
iticr fobied were very contradidoiy and not «
■authentic ; but I took every P«ob-|f c
tain as accurate information as possible and b
it is my that Nelson is dead, and a,
that Buonaparte is a pr.foner to 1 row
bridge. A vessel arrived at Leghorn from si
Alexandria in 30 or 35 day. passage, the h
captain of which reported that the French p
fleet had not arrived it Alexandria, and
that he saw nothing of the fleet., nor heard
of anv engagement: As she Was confign-1
3to a house in the French interests no
doubt, they would inftrua him to fay To.
On the xi July, off Carthagena, the Li-
captain Dixon, a British f.xty-four gun p
ftip, fell in with four large Spantfh frigate,
Dixon to «nk= ki< "
he would THINK OF IT, and immediately (
gave O'Neal a broad fide, aB * a '°" T"'' I
me need which lasted two bour \f
O'Neal made fail for Carthagena. with three
frigates, leaving nnder the care oftheLion
the Dorathea of 44 guns and 136 men, by
whom she was condufted to Naples, wher }
/he arrived about the 4th of August. L
The Dorothea bad 30 men killed, an I
ac wounded, who were lent to an hofpita
at Naples. The Lion had one man wound
«l, f».ce dead. The Lion during the en- ;
-ragerrent, was so much encumbered with
her cargo, that she could not fire all he I
lower click, guus.
0- Remote Subscribers for this Ga- .
Wt« are requested to forward pr. post, ,
' the arrearages due from them refpeftiye-
Postmasters who
| «d fubferiptions are earnestly defiied to
f remit the fame. At this interesting and
! diflreffing orifls, attention to this notice
will peculiarly oblige the Eaitor. J
"I BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. Tl
. L'Ot
NEW-YORK, Oftober iri. ritius
FAST DAY. brig,
Thursday the 18th instant, is appointed la Se
by the reverend Classes of N. Brunfwiek, may
a day of falling and prayer, and is recom- prize
mended to be observed as such by the dif- bring
p fereiit congregations they represent. lican
n Marin; Rtgtjlcr. Frani
, Arrived. days sent 1
t Ship Independence, Taber, London 53 arms,
1. Felt. St. Peterfburgh 100 by tl
d Ship Joseph, Felt, July 30, lat. 57, 40, rema
h Fair Island, N.W. Bor 9 leagues, spoke the ther,
d Neptune, well from St. Peterfburgh, bound prop
11 to R. Island, out 25 days. P eo P
Sept. 23, lat. 13. 16, spoke brig Hall, duty
from Gott.'nburgb, bound to Boston, out
56 days. lernb
Plymouth, (Eng.) August {. repu'
The Iris and Saratoga, American ships, to^h
i. which failed yesterday with the Agincourt, l»w
!. of 64 guns, are put back, in consequence of confl
a l having ran foul of each other, and received mit
(t considerable damage. Thii
is August 11. feffic
it Arrived the American ship Alliance, »f td c
jf and from New-York< Capt. David Jervett, whii
laden with tobacco, pot and pearl ashes, cot- dom
ton, mahogany, &c. bouud to London, jflan
taken on the 22d ult. by L'Heureux
Frtrtch privateer, and re-taken on the 2d /
inft. by the Cambrian frigate, of 44 guns, neti
Hon. Capt. A. K. Legge. esc*
Passengers in the Independence, from London, an d
Capiaint Roathand Delhon, of New London —both
iheii vetTcls were condemned in France. Mr. Nor
m fnand, and Matter R. Ktyfc,of London—and 4 (tcer- "lie
. age paffengeri. id 1
ers.
The Emperor has proposed to His Majesty the r .
, King cf prutTia, to lorm with him and oilier nor
ro thern powejs, a coalation, tending to protest Monar- was
b chical governments against the attack of Democratic fary
0 f republics. The kiug returned an anl'wer, that the
1 proposal was of a nature so eiuremely delicate and
important,as to demand the most matuie confideraii- t ur<
X- on; and he requested his Imperial Majesty, in his turn,
ie- to acquaint him with the tenor of the tecret articles of
r. the treaty of Campo Formio. But this request has for H
» the present been declined by the Emperor, who how-
Jlt ever, assured His Majesty that thtfc articles did not in . '
lin the lead Concern him, and that if he would obtain ,att
0 f from the French government leave for their being of I
communicated to him, his Imperial Majesty wouli am(
11S most readily comply with his request.
>a-
*as Blanchard is at Rouen, preparing fix balloons for W 1
lj. an serial expedition. fpei
, Aclaflicallady in London wrote some time ago
to a political friend at Chelmford, to the following
•X- effeft;—" My dear, I have just time to inform vou,
•nt that nnfe is just arrived that Bonnyparty has taken Mawl.
tit and all its Nights "—To which the other replied—
j '* lam not all lorry for it, my friend, as I knew the
et Maltese are particularly f'-nd of long day 1."
fh, RICHMOISD, Oftober 2. * -=
ht What must add to the affliftion which all
those are now groaning under, in confe
ift. quence of th« late dreadful mort-lity at Ci
oft ty Point, where one sixth part of the usual
be- number of inhabitants residing there, have
rte been swept off i» the course of twenty odd
im ' j days; is a well founded belief, that all this ,
md calamity might have beeo prevented, if tne
tie- Excutive of the flats, had due attention to
>ri- the notice which the quarantine officer of
ore that port gave about the middle of August,
ad. of the danger to be apprehended from vef-
the fels arriving under short passages from Phila-
lad delphia. For there remains not the fmal-
al's left doubt (if any regard is to be paid to
nd- the opinion of, the several Physicians who
ore have attended there) but that the fatal ma-
he lady was spread by the ship Nestor of Port- 1
ard lafld, Charles Wait, matter ; which wffel
ived arrived a' City Point fiom Philadel, hia on
Bu- the 24th of Augnft, have thrown four dead
nail overboard on her passage. Being without
cfe. I hands to load with tobacco, Negroes weie
ints ca lled upon, and out of eleVen thus employ-
was I e d, ten have died : and almost every unfor-
is a I tunafe cafe, can be traced to having been
reft- 011 beard this unfortunate vessel, or to a *
not communication with the fiek therefrom;
ob- for those of the inhabitants who have not
and been thus exposed are yet unusually healthy;
and and thank Heaven, there appears to be some
■ow- hope that the king of terrors is at length g
rom fatisfied with the dreadful carnage which he f( _
the hath made at that devoted and unfortunate
nch J place. t)
I , 1. vi
Latest European Intelligence.
LONDON, July 27. tl
'"° According to the loteft advices from p
,- r ; Mount Caucasus, peace has been ronclud- h
ed and signed at Tiflis between Russia and fc
gU " Perfta. The treaty ii tolerably advantage- f,
;atC ] ousto the PeHian monarch, the court of b
,a j Russia having given up the conquests which r ,
T-j its troops made on that fide, except fomc h
I 3! Lillaees and portions of territory on the w
7 Caspian sea, and particularly Derbent and f,
°1 Baccow, which have been already ceded by
K heft former treaties. Notw thftand.ng this peace v
• a body of twenty thousand men remains poll- e
't ed along the river Cyrus. It appears ihat t
LL this little army has given umbrage to the n
Porte, since orders have been given by the g
d latter, to assemble an army of observation in
i Legi.l. r of .k'
Und ' Batavian republic of the of J" l * on
C she application of the Provifio.al D.reaoty
WUh 111 the members of the second National As- f
' fembly arretted lift January (the Batavian
18th Fruftidor) have been set at l ! bcrt T* 1
„ The merchants of Amsterdam have t
Ga " nublic notice of their havu»g received intel- t
port, ligtnee from Cologne, that with rtfpeft to ,
Eve- the French tolls on the Rhine, rte merchan
ceiv- diae (hall be expedited «n the mann"
as formerly until further orders. Engh h
d tC goods, or commodities conGdered as such, ,
; and f 0 w hich also belong all rtfined Dutch fu-
Otice lars are alone prohibited, and ordered to
J nrmaitras ,rom lhe ftonUiTS - ,
The following extraft of a letter from effort
L'Orient, refprding the state of the Man- fence
ritius, is not uniaterefling "An English quate
brig called the Lucy, taken by the frigate merci
la Seine, has just entered this jjort. If marit
may credit the crew put on board of this
prize, it would seem that the frigate was
■ bringing back to Europe all the Rcpub- Rece
lican troops which remained in the Isle de
I - ranee. The flower of these troops was
s sent to Batavia, to join their brethren in A c:
; arms, whose ranks have been much thinned w;
>by the intemperature of the climate. The C;
, remaining troops having declined to go till- Two
: ther, the Colnnial Assembly has thought f°'
1 proper to fend them to Europe, and the of
peop'e of colour are ordered to do garrison Fort
, duty. of
t j§<' Private advices add, that the colonial at- nai
ftmbly, after having thus got rid of all the Thir
republican troops, has applied for succours It
, to v the G«vernor of the Cape of Good IJope. ap
, I»will be recollefted, that this assembly sri
f conflantly refufed, two years since, to ad- ct
d mit the commissaries feat by the Dire&ary. W
This is the only one as all the ancient pof. | Eigl
feffioas of France, which has hitherto fleer- 'c
>f ed clear of the horrors of the revolution, S
f, which may be greatly attributed to the wif- C
t- dom of count Macartie, Governor of the T w<
i, island.
x August 3.. 125
d Anartift has lately discovered that mag
s, netic attraftion has a very powerfnl influ p
e»ce on the due performance of watches, <•
n > and that the balance wheel has, in many in- 1
r _ ffances a great degree of polarity. This a
j. difco,very may be of considerable advantage
is improving the corredlnefs of time-keep- J
he ers- " ''
it _ The burden of the French hvmn which a
ir- was funk on the 27th of July, the anniver- t
tic fary of the fall of Robespierre, and on the Oni
irtroduftion of the Roman statues and pic- i
ii. tures was—
n, ROME is not now at ROME, t
of ROME is now at PARIS. f
or The exaftions and oppressions exercised
f" by the French in RonTr, where they have
,i n latterly been compelled by the sheer poverty
ng of the people to remit contributions to the ]
" amount of two millions and a half, have no
doubt, compelled maiiy a Roman to exclaim 1
or in .language similar to that of our Shake- p re
fpeare, in bis Titus Andronicus. his
8° " Dost thou not perceive j
n s « That Rome is but a wilderness of Tygers." p £
at'. 'I ii"
je <isa?ette. t
all PHILADELPHIA, be
re- ===== 00
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER l».
'Jj fo
■ October, it, 1798.
THE Board of of the Ma
to rine and City Hospitals, felicitate their fel
f low citizens on the rapid decline of the pre- f e ,
vailing fever since the Ift in ft. the profpe- ne
r ' e f' rous state of the City Hospital, and enli- j e
U a " veiling profpeft of a speedy termination of Q f
a j the calamity, which has overwhelmed our v j
'to None can mure afflduo.'.fly desire the m
return of their fellow citizens in fafery, to j
the comforts of their own si e-fide ; but
they deprecate the cOnsequenceS of precipi- D<l
(j-J tation, whrfre so much caution and prudence ] 4I
on is required. Hj
The apprehenfionof the Board has been UI
ut awakened by the too hasty return of many j,;
individuals who have inconsiderably hazard- w
LU ' ed their own h-alth and the public welfare ; U]
r° y " several of whom, 'the Board are sorry to t y,
° r " add, have been seized with the fever short- m
' ly after their return. a
The weather since the 6th inft. has bean m
extremely unfavourable, anft the number of
l*. thfc sick have considerably encreafed ; which
y ' would evidently be augmented by the accu
mulation of pcrfons, particular!) those from
1 a pure atmosphere. The Board earnestly tv
'| e solicit public atteption ti> coufiderations so
™ a C important ; and entreat the forbearance of
their fellow, until returning health shall in- b<
vite them home. _ ra
Theßo rd cannot too strongly impress a i
the propriety and necessity of cltanfing and di
rom purifying (previous to the return of the in- 0 I
lud- habitant ) the bedding, cloathing, and rc
and fioufes, in which the difcafe has existed ; hi
age- for which purpose they recommend th« li
tof beral use of lime. They also mpeat their tl
hich recommendation to the commiflioners, to p1
ome have t""€ pumps frequently and copiotifly j, ;
the worked, as the water is now extremely of- bi
and fenfive and unWholefome. _ ai
Iby The board afluretheir fe bw-citizens that h;
eace whenever the health of the City and Lib- w
post- erties shall be so restored as to admit the re
that turn of the inhabitants with fafety, not a
the moment (hall be delayed in annoOnciug the
the glad .idings.
>n in Bv order of the boaH of Managers, f,
Wm. JONES, President.
the Attest, Timothy ci
lory We are happy in copying the following
As- from a late London pnper—
ivian Our readers, will fee from the paper o
v inftruftions sent to the American m.n.tters
Jven 0. the disclosure of the money nn.g«e, I
ntel-' that the g«vernment purfae with firmoefs
ato the ample and hon e st lme of condnft y
:han- originally adopted, and declare
ln ner will not buy a peace, even from '"dividuah
iglifh or the state. We hope this plain andfteady
such, deportment will secure to them that blcffing.
h fit The navv of America, though not in a
tiers, of Great Britain, is yet refpeftafele as the
1
efforts of an infant State, struggling in de- C
fence of its liberties, and is certainly ade
quate to the defence of the American com
merce 3gainll the crippled remains t>f the
maritime force of France.
; Jane
. DONATIONS, . John
Received at the Encampment at Matter's Wm,
place, for the use o't tKe poor. Patic
, Oftober 11. Man
1 A cart load of potatoes and apples, and a Racl
I waggon load of straw from Mr. George
: Calter. Jul"
. Two sheep, a quantity of potatoes, and Geo,
t some apples fijpm Mr.Leonard Shallcrofs, Ifabi
of Oxford township. John
1 Forty yards linfey aud flannel, and 24 pair litre
of hose, from Mr. Samuel Read, of Ger
mantown.
5 Thirty bushels sweet potatoes, 212 do.
s Irish potatoes, I bushel peas, 12 1-2 bush.
apples, 9 pair fowls, and 2libs, cheese.
jr from fund 1 y inhabitants or. Rancocas
creek, Builington county, colle£led by
Mr. Wm. RufH. ' B
Eighty-nine pieces of newly made cloathing
for women and children, from Mrs. Julia Att
Scott, Mrs. Sitgreaves, and Miss Sophia
f- C. Kemper, of Eafton Peni.fylvania. 1
e .Twenty fat sheep from McfTrs. F- Dufar & , vaili
Robert Heyfliam. j f° r
125 pounds fait meat, 10 pair of fhaes,
r- leventeen fat sheep, fifteen bushels sweet List
1 potatoes, 17 1-2 do. Irish potatoes, 10 3
cheeses, 6olbs. rye flour, 1 bushel beats, a
1. 1 bundle cloaths, 2 bundles bitter herbs, (
i s and 62 dollars and 84 cents cash, from
■ e MessrS. John Cox, Charles French, and
p. James Burr, colledled by them from the
inhabitants of Moorflown and its vicinity, t
; h and from citizens of Philadelphia residing S
r . there. j
ie One bundle containing 32 pieces of cloath- (
c . ing, and one bundle containing 1 dozen \
sets of infants new made cloathing, from <
the young ladies of Mrs. Robert Smith's t
family, Frankford. !
:d Johnhfietp | Com , ;
ve x Jona. Robefou, V
ty / Isaac IV. Morris.}
he Masters* Place, o<ft. 12.
no „
On Friday the sth instant died of the
; e- prevailing fevsr, in the nineteenth year of
his age, Mr. John Nichols, Son of William
„ Nichols Esq. Marshall of the Dillridl of
Pennsylvania.
By those who knew this young and ami
able vi&im of Pestilence, his virtues will be
long remembered, his lofa be long deplored.
:z_ It has happened to few, however, who have
been fhatched away so early, to leave, in
one single trait of charafter, something
speaking, even to the heart of aflranger, be
yond volumes of panegyric. The Hiffory
'of the few last days of bi3 life, therefore d«-
serves to bd recorded, as affording an in- f, :
ft&nce of friendfhip, gratitude, and intrepi- C
a " dity. fcarcaly equalled.
f e '" Mr. Nichols had been seized with the
? re " fever a few weeks ago, and duri.ig his sick- a j
P®' ness was conflantly and affedlionately atten
n ''" Jed'by Henry Hillega?, efqr. The strength n
of of his constitution had got the better of the
our virulence of the difcafe, and he t-ad just re-
moved to the country, in a state of conva
co 1 fence, when Mr. Hillegas was seized with rr
but jjj e diforcler. His heart told him he
'P'" owed a debt, and, in his weak fituatibn, he
nce koew he coul'l scarcely pay it with lejs than
life. The wKifpers «f felf preservation we e
een unheard; "thrinrreatres of those who loved fl
any him, were too feeble to resist the calls of ti
""d* what he thought a sacred duty. He re- q
re » turned to the centre of contagion, attended °
to the sick bed, matched the expiring mo- ''
ort * ments, closed the eyes of, his fiiend,- and iu
a 'few days followed him to- that place, t
where thrvfhall fart no mor s. s
r of (-
lich •« Weep not difcor.folatc friends, he is gone to
-cu- happier climes-"'
rorr Died, on Tuesday the 9th inft. in the "j
ft'y twenty-fourth year of his age, William j
sfo Morris, Esquire. a
eof The death of this young gentleman may t
I in- be deemed a public loss To a natvr- n
ral understanding, and a difthiguifhing uu'nd, C
reft aided by an excellent educirticnr, his liad ad : *
and ded great acquirements of kf.onledge, b th
: in- of men and things. I He possessed a gene- j
and r ous and benevolent heart, influenced by, th# a
ed ; highest ferife of-honotir and integrity. a
He was about to enter npbn the great 1
heir theatre of the world, by engaging in the '
» to pva&ice of the law. Those who knew him c
"ufTy h:id fartguine expedlations that he would t
of- become eminent at the bar, .ufeful to society, <i
and serviceable to his country ; to which he .
that had that natural and strong attachment
Lib- which would- have led him forth, whenever j
- rc " he coald have been ufcfvl. 1
ot a A premature death has blasted these
! the hopes, a"hd left a disconsolate family to be c
moan a lofi of which they are but too fen.
s i fible.
lent. This feeble tribute to his mrmory, pro
ceeds from the pen of one who knew and
appreciated his worth. „
v!a S ■ - - r
r of Guardians of the Poor.
ft er , The adjourned meeting of the General
eue> Board to Thursday next the nth instant, i -
further poflponed in consequence ofthe con
thtv tinnance of the prevailing fever.
Zl PETER MIERCKEN, PrfiJent. ,
duals Alms Jloule, Oft ber 8. »
eady \
T ;^ g a Wanted— A Boy to attend an !
fleets office, si uwd in n healthy part of the city. ■
hnquirc at No. »r, NortK Seventh ftrect.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT;
Por 12th October.
_ ADMITTED.
Ann Riggini John Hgnry
Jane Howard John Dumont
John Hevely Wm. Money
Wm. Smith Elizabeth Hall
Patience Daily , Lawrence Brown
Martin Everhart Thomas Richards^
Rachel Kirk.
EiIED.
Juliana Kifcrin John James
[ Geo. H. Zimmerman John Henry
, Isabella Carbray Wm. GoldsmitH
John George A. Ronaldfon
• Remaining io the Hospital 87, of whotii
41 are on the recovery.
Interred from ciiy and suburbs 13
City Hospital 8
Total 21 s
s PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
f Chrhstopher Darrah, Steward.
' By order of the B;>ai>l of Managers.
I WILLIAM JONES, Pre/,dent.
a Attest, j Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
a
THIRTY-SIX rcw cases of the pre
k vailing fever, reported by 15 Pliylicians,
j for the last 24 houj-8.
:t List of all the Burials in the' feverel Grave
0 Tards of the City and Liberties of Ph'tla•
s, delphia, as taken fro>n the books kept by
j, Clergymen, S xtons . &c.
m 4 C
,d Names of the Burial Grounds.
le 3
y> Chrilt Cliureh *- - •- 00
ig St. Peter's .... 00
St. Pauls 00
[j. First Pvefbvterian - • 1 1 0
Second Prt(byterian - - - a i x "
" n Third Presbyterian ... o; t
m Scots Prcfbyterun - - - r
l ' s Aflociate Church - 0 ®
St. Mary's Church - - - 01
Trinity Church ... la
Friends' ..... <? o
t. Free Quakers' ... 1 o
S weeds* , 0.0
German Lutheran - - • - 211
German Reformed Presbyterian * 0
he Moravians' - - - 0 9
of Baptists' ... . o a
am Methodists' .... ' s
D r Univerfalifts' .... 0 o
Jews' ° o
City Hospital - • - . " 9
Kensington .... » t
be Coates's ..... 1 o
ed. T
ave Tutal for the last 14 hours 34' 7
, in 'wn-a
; ng TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
lj e . T"VKSERTED from the Marin; Camp, a Marine,
\J by name Da-jiiLufir, though fuppofidto be
, fi&itiov.s, he cnliied as a Fifer, and received a,
Bounty of TEN DOLLARS, given him out of a
in- frn 1, fulifcribed by the Officers of the Marine
:pi- Corps fcr the purpose of obtaining good mufick ;
He took withhini a Watch belonging :o th« Drum
.l mer. He is abt> t 5 sett nine or ten inches high
, and welf aged 3Q years or there
ck" about, fallow complexion, long sandy hair, grey
:en eyes, large lip*, his under lip having a remarkable
gth nitch in the middle, a Carpenter by tiade, born
t Jj e in l hi!a!elphia—had on when he went away the
Music Uniform of the Navy—Viz. red with blue,
belt edged with yclUw.
lva- Whoever secures fajd fellow and dolivers him at
vith my Cau'.p, ftiall receive the above reward.
|ba TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
•hnii "TVKSSRTED from my Detachment at Borden.
;e , e U town this day, a Marine, by name George
. Rodvan,*. Native of Ireland about 25 years of age
ived f, VJ f L . et c ight or nine inches high, d.irk coroplec
,S of tion, black hair tkd; bjick eyes well madu and
re- quarrelsome.when in liquor isfocd of singing—had,
ided °9 a blue Teaman's jickett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stocking', round Hat, and had 1 nder his Pa
n. taloona a pair of Na::keen Breeches,
d IU Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer*
SCC» tcr to the Camp, Hull receive the above
Reward.
OEtober .798 2 HE * RY W[LLIAM3 '
to 5 Lt. Marines
PROCLAMATION.
the virtue of a precept irom JoaN D. Coir,
IAM -U Efqaire,' president of the court of Oyer and
terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
ma s Bucks; :ni HIN*V Wynkooi- and Francis
Utir- Murr.w, judges qft the fjme court —A court of
liud, Oyer and Teriniuer, and gtneral goal delivery,
1 ad- will be held at Newtowo, in the said county of
3 , Bucks, 011 Monday the .Jth <'ay of November next.
A" those who will prosecute against the prifonerc
cr in the goat of said coupty, are required to be then
tfrd and there to profecut;e them as (hall be juft—
and all the jn dices of the pe2c, coroners and con
rreat withiji the said eounty, ire required to ba
1 t j ie then and there, m their proper pcrfons, with their
, . rolls, records, inquiDtions and examinations and
im other their remembrances, to do those ■ hings which
ould to their offices , kelon£» in that behalf to be
iety, done, &c. DANIEL THOMAS., (heriff.
h he oa. 4,1798. jtaw
nent 7*o be Sold,
ever An elegant and convenient House,
In C/j fnut Jlitet, ntxt Jtour totbe Bank of North Ameirtca«
hefe THE L'«t is thirty by one husored and fevpntf
1 eight. The House has been thoroughly repaired
fen w ithiii a lew montiis.—Apply to the Printer.
august 8 $
p ro . 1 he Office of the Committee,
and Appointed to fuperinter.d thu building of the
to be loaned to the United States, is renao
v-:d to No. 111 Spruce street—os which those gen
-r— tlcmen who have not already ceme forward with
their fubferiptions will please to take notice.
, ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
er ■ august r $
con- Should a gentleman, a na-»
•live of Tener.ffe, who haj Been known in America by
the name ot Lewis Martin Cevel at one t'me, and at
it. another by thatof Lewis Cevel Pillifer, be alive, and
will apply to Barry, of Baltimore,, be will
~ htar of something highly to nit intcreli. Or should
te be deceased, any person who will addref< 1 certi"
ficate of hi« drat', properly afiihenticated, will be re
an wardfd with tuifrrty dollars, by applying as above.
Mr Pellifer is iuppo(ed to ba tome where id the fiatc
, cet of MafTacljnfetti.
AUjufl i, iT]P
In th* Nam; and tie Authority of the Com
monwealth of re./nfyivania,
By THOMAS MIFFLIN*
Oovemer of the fai<l C^minon wealth,
A PROCLAMATION.
V'THEREAS, it has been Rated to me by
If th- Prrßdrui and DueAors of the Bank
of lVnol'j'fvanU, That on the night of Satur- j
' Hay the filrlt inftanf, the House now occupied by
the said B.ink, commonly called Carpenters
liall, was bur glti;<lsifly enttredjby fotne villain,
or villains unknown, and thcreifom a contider
able number,of Bank Notes of various defcrip
tions and denominations wera stolen and carried
away: 10 ths intent that the perpetrator,
or perpetrators of (.> great a crime, and the
may bedifcovered and brought
to condign punishment, I have deemed it expe
dient to iflwe this Proclamation, hervby offer
ing and pror.iifing a reward of ONE THOU
SAND DOLLARS to any person, or persons,
■who shall discover the ] erpetrator, or perpetra
tors of the said crime, or any of them, or any
accessary thereto, before or after the favS, t'< be
paid on the cOnviiHi -. of all or any of the offen
ders: AND I do hereby further offer and pro
mise A FKEE AND ENTIRE PARDON
unto any one of the perpetrator*, or acieflaries
aforefaid of the comrailtion of the /aid crime,
who shall make a full and fatisfaiftory difclof'ire
of all the circumstances relative to the contriving
and accompli filing the fame, and of the names
and places of abode of his or her alTocietce, so
that such ifliicutei may be apprehended an 4
' convi.-led: AND all the Judges. Ju'ftices, She
riffs, Corftables, and other Public Officers of
tiis Commonwealth (according to the duties of :
their refpeilive (lotions) are hereby required and j
enjoined to u!e all lawful means to deteift «nd I
bring to justice each and every person
in contriving, <sr perpetrating the crime afore
faid.
GIVKV under my hand and the Great
S a! of the State, at Gerroantown. 'he
(L; S.) third day of September, in the year of
rm I.ord one thousand (even hundred
and ninety-eight, and of the Common
we.lth the twenty-third. ,
- THOMAS MIFFLIN. ,
By the Govcrncrj , ,
A.J Daliaj. t
Secretary »f the Commonviealib. t
New Encampment.
Committee who fnperintend the en
eaifyuicnt at Mailer's place near the Mill
fond on t!ie Germnntowrr Road, about
two milts from the city, refpeflfulfy inform
their country frieijds t+iac they (land in need
ii( an immediate supply of vegetables and ;
How for th life of these diftrelTed citizens
v !.i> are flying frotrr the present calamity.
The committee flatter themselves that the
fame liberality will be found in the farmer,
and others, to ftipply th-is Encampment, as
hasbcen to that ontheConv.norsiiearScliu'yk
ki l, both having the feme laudable objeft
in ♦tew.
John InthMp ~I
'Joil. Rolefih >■ COMMtTTEE.
Ifanc W. Morris. J
Camp. MaltcrV Place,
Septen bcr 10, .'9B. 1
C 3" THE Committee are happy in hav
• ingvii in their power to inform thbfe citi
rins who are not in a (mtatior* to provide
for then»fclvt» and are ddirous to remove
fiotn the city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
the Encipment on Mailer's Place, in the
Northern Liberties where such persons will
be furnifhed with comfortable apartments
and rectfTarv provision. during the present
calamity. of
TENTS.
The committee of the guartlians
of the poor, appointed for the fuperinten
deiice of the tents on Schuylkill, acknow-
ltdge with gratitude and sincere fatisfadtion,
the generous liberality of donations they have
optrierced. It is with deference to pub
lic opinion, and public compaflion, that they
infetm their feeling fellow citizens, that they _!
have near seventy' pregnant women, who
trill, ere fh'.y leave the encampment, Hand At
in not only need, but necessity of cloathing
for their infants.—To mothers, whefe hearts A
cl'n beat with f<-nHnefs to their offspring—
To those amiable y?>ung ladies, whose best
and benevolent affVelions are extended to
the fmilj g babe—To fathers who have it
in their power, this refpeftful requeil is ad
elrefl'ed. '
By srdir of the committee,
PET til R MIERCKEN, Chairman. ani
Oftober 3, 1798.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On the Premises, on Thursday the nth inft. ~r
M 1 o'clock, P. M. three elegant situations \
for COUNTRY SEATS, '
C"fO!W MAN DING views of several Genteel me
J Or:,try Seats, the river Delaware, and all °f
tJ~e adjacent e'mntry; fronting on the road le;>d- in
ing Trona Fnnktort to Germantown; about three abl
quarters of a mi'e NW. from Frankford, and three
from Ge:mmtown.
One the lots containing thirteen, th« other Cei
two si acres each; a larger quantity ctl
of Und Ihould be want#J, the fubfcnbvr can add pai
tp each as may best fuic the purchasers. kittle r ec
nced.bc laid relpefliag the Situation of these lots,
as no defcriptien that can be given of them will
be equal to a view of the lets themselves.
The LanS is in high order, chiefly in clover; and a Uj
the terms of payment will be rendered cafj to the r
purcbaftls, ai d made known at the day of late.
All jnaterials for building can be had very han- r I
dy, ind as cheap, if not cheaper, than any where X
plfc, . The lutlcriber will contrail to deliver Cone unl.
•1 a feperior quality te any in the ceuri'.y, for one cau
dollar per petch, te the purchasers of the above lots, zetl
A»y gentleman wifliing to view them before the cer<
day qf sale, will I>lca(c apply to the futlcriUtr at all I
bis adjoining the lots to be ."old. him
Wm DAVIDSON.
N. B. WUI be fold at private sale, a handsome a
small FARM, containing from ao to 70acres, w.ih ~
k coi*tnodt<«wflonedwe!ling-houle, carriage house,
ftabl"s, and other necessary buildings. lie
O&ober 3. dt».
- ■ can
ro BE LET, late
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well fmilhed house, No
415 High-ftreei, lately occupied by Doc-
tor Widar, with Coach koufe and Stables
Erqui'r* ef . WILLIAM SUE AT F, u, j
i\ T t l6Sj High-Jlrtet. j;
3» i flret
AURORA OfTICE,
lltl . Oat'ber 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
that THi. AURORA wis not to be r:-publi(h-d,
t —The public *re hereby refpe&fnl'y informed
that the waft <rf hands afone has its re
publication f.veral days ago; but that fiich ar-
JJ rangcn:cnts bow making as will allure the ap
-IQK paarance of the paper in the course of tUe prcfenf,
Lur- f or the firil week of the next moi th.
5 8t
southward:
■ In }
ier- OBober 8, 1798.
lip TJUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
f ied JT GIVEN, That the Commiflianers of
tor, the Distrust of Southwark have removed
the their Hall to the usual place, commonly
known by tue name of Jamet Lit/e't School.
er . House, in conlcquence tf the rapid decline
)U- J* 16 Epidemic Fever, especially in the
)ns> \ icinity thereof.
tra- By order of the Board of Commiffioturs
in y Wm. EINNARD, PreCdent.
Attest,
len - William I'enross, Clerk, pro tcm.
Oft- ber 9 6t
ries T en Dollaj s Reward.
ne, T~\ESERTFD from t!«e Gvard House in New
ure -L/ Ciftl-, this morning, STrmiK Bowdem, a
ing F' v ate Mnrine, belonging to the Frigate Unrted
nes StJt-1. He is about .16 years of age, five feet ten
so inches high, fair complexion, light hair, blue eyes
, n< horn in England, ami by trade a Brickl. yer. Prior
he- 1 1 J w#r » of his enli.im«nt, he
. c f in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
lofl W ! endtav °ur to go. Any person who w.ll ap
ind i F r ., ''l ,1. * deserter, and "ecure him in any
ind i J t ' le United States, lhall be entitled to '
the above reward.
A. w HARTON, Capt. Marines.
re " New Cafll",Oft. 8.
'at Selea & Common Council.
C | SeleA Council and the Members elect of
, 'he deleft and Common Councils arr eahv
esTLr rcqucfied to meet ca Friday next, precisely
at ro o'clock in the forenoon at the Middle Ftrry (
on Schuylkill, in order to receive tlic returns ofthu
judges of the <le<2ion, pursuant to the direilions
of the a« of mcdVporation, It will be neceffiry
th: t a quorum of the two Counci'e be formed en
that day.—lt is therefore ejepeded that members
•ill be punilu. 1 in their attendance, agreeably to
this Notice. ' v
By or 'er, t
Wm. H. Tod, Clerk S. C. 1
Ed. J. Coale, Clerk C. C. •
Jt oifloher 10
J 5F A Quarterly Meeting of the 1
C?rpenter's Company will he held at their -
l a Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock
JOSEPH WORRELL,
,e r, ar "
oaoberu. {l
i
's FOR SALir^
John Miller, |un.
"Oj 8, CUEINUT ITJEIT,
ioo hogtlieads RUM,
• high preof anj fine flavour
y'y'» s
~ FOR
The Cargo of the Schr. Siscerity o"i
Benjamin Monteith MaQcr, from Laguira,
cewiiiTruo or
945 Fenegas of Cocoa -
, 4000 lb. «f Flera Indigo
aio tt a o^jZotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins ■»
v By Willings & Francis. 1
. , No. Eleventh llreet. w
? )U -^ : - dtf hi
Madras and Ventapaulem at
8 HANDKERCHIEFS, [ h
1 Searfaukers and Carradarries, J
of the nevveft and aiofl approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received, "~
AN» ro» fALB By
5 Alex. J. Miller & Co.
Vo. 64, South Front flreet.
, may 18.
] ~ FOR SALE,
IV THi NO. KLMVtNTif-eTaFZT,
[ 18 Bags Frefli Cloves. ti
r Willing! Js* Francis.
1 3" nc '9- dtf
landing,
I At South Street wharf, the cargo of the ftip Con- ne;
; neflicut, from Batavia— of
i About 300 tons of Java Coffee, cil
of the growth of 1794 and 179J COl
60 tons of Java Sugar, gr <
In cannifters—for sale by on
L PETEJt BLIGHT, ar«i
"He also OFriet so* ial»,
• XJO hhds. choice Jamaica Sugare
Jamaica rum in hhds "
• and^;:rca y ,k? and4ttprOof " 1-
Madeira in pipeg nes
Old Batavia Arrack
i«*y \ i J:
WHEREjfS a certain person fwi'ndled x
from me on the firft inft. by giviW
melulieu thereof a forged check on the nefl
ot North America, anote of that date, drawn orl
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay-
able m fix month., for three thousand four
luindred aud fifty seven dollars and forty-fix Bi
cents. ALL persons are delired not to re- Sitt
ceive any transfer of it. as it will not be ~~
paid by either the drawer or endorser unlcfs A
recovered by law. £]
WILLIAM NICHOLS, co °
a £ RaCe S' rilt - lUn'c
6-
Ihe Public are hereby informed f ,on
TMAT I did not mean to authorise Col. WII-' f
iam Nichols to declare, that I would not par
unless rccovered by law, my note alluded to in hi.' j l
caution o the 6th of A uguft, puhliflied in ,he Ga
zetteof the United Statci of last eveninj; 1 fi n
cerely lament hi. h>:», and uld him I would dJ
all I could do conCftently with my credit to serve 1
him, bet went no further. war
JOHN TRAVIS. c > ua
august 7 § lhi
& 11 Med— Actuation in aPub
lic or Men hams Office, or to go a* Supercargo, —i
by a person regularly brought wp to the Mer
cinti'eand IcAirance bufmefs in London,.he has ani
lately been a voyage Itom hence to the Weft-In
dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended,
—fleale to enquire at the Printer's,
aiieuft 11 C
A House to let, " Itu
In Fourth Creet, n.xt dorr to the Indian Qneen S,at
tnqurrs of Robert Sjotit, N0.58, SouthVroct m C
«"«• 5 julv fcnJ
f tatn
To b's Said, at private Sale, I
A Plantation arid Tfatl of Lind
/CONTAINING 14? acres, situate injWhite- i
, lf( j cry, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and 011 1
re _ the public road leading frojn Plymouth by lift |
jr _ Broad-Ax tavern toward Horlham, arid about j
ap- one quarter of a mile from said tavern, alt: I
:ut about the fame dillance from the Skippaek roa j
and about the fame dilance from the late refi
t dence of Jame< Morris esq. deceal'ed. It is
bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. J*- .
cob Reiff and I)etweiler. About ten acres are
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 are ur |
3Y der efcver, aad about jj acres are well timbered 1
los The buildings on the above farm cor.fift of a
, e d two-story done dwelling-house, a lar<e ftoiu
, barh and (lone fprlng-houfe. Theiers also or
- the premises 4 young orchard of about 150 ap
JO™ pie-trees.
ine This farm has great advantages ef water, as
the there is an excellent never-niling stream palling
by the house and barn, in fucll a manner as t I
, rs flippy the lime as well asevery field with a fu.
fieient quantity.
The fpriilg over which the spring-house is
bi»iif, is excellent water, and is a'fo Very near
and convenient to the dwelling house.
The situation of this nlaee is he:: thy and in '
good neighborhood, and is near to several dii
ferent places of worship, and within the dii
tance »f half a mile from two grill and fan
wills, also near lime-kilni.
This farm will be fold together or divided in
cs to two parts, as may suit the purfliafers. Alfi
; 9r ' a two-llory flone house with a barn ::nd carrtae?
l le house ar\.d lot of land situate on Chefnut-hill. I
] lc is a very high and h».ilthy situation, and corn «
,p. ir.and3 a very extensive and beautiful profpefl -
ny Pofleflion of part of the lioule may be kad ini
to mediately.
For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water-street Philadelphia, or to
CHRISTOPHER NET7)RICK,
~ • on Chisnut-liill.
Chefnut-hil!, aiguft 14th, 1798. aawtt
° f ■- "~~ NEW-CASTLE. ~
J SALES at AUCTION,i
ry O* The Cargo of the brig Diligent, capt.
h« Crouen, jutl arrived from Jamaica —up-
ns \vards of
100 hhcls.high proof Jamaica Rum,
rs Two hhd-i. of Sugar,
to The cargo of the brig Diligent will be put '
up at Public Sale on Saturday, 15th Oilober, '
j the present month at New Cattle, and will be '
fold irt Ictts of lto 5 hogsheads to fjit the pur- 1
chafers—for approved notes, or drafts, payable '
iu Philadelphia, at 4 months afterdate.
PETER BLIGHT. ;
g Harmony Hall, near Gertnantow n.
y otflober i (Stl4 j
Bank of Pennsylvania. v c
THE Sank of Ptfnnfylvania is removed toGcr
mantovvu, —where *he will be tranfelUd
to-morrow, in the Union School House. N t
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafluer. t
yppteoiher 4 J t
n T I C~I. ~ I
. Bank of North America,
Augujl 2sth t 1798. a
'I 1 HOSE Perfans who h*ve Iv*tcsoi Bills to pay
i at this {Jank are informed, ;
That regular Notices will be put under a sealed r
cover direded to the refpeAive payer and lodged t
in the Post Ofiice every Monday untrl the fiturn (
f of the citizens. "
RICHARD WELLS, Cajt.ic. •. "
aug. 29 dri
WILLIAM M'LAWS; n
SADLER HARNESS MAKER, «
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreets, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
his friends and wholcfale customers, with ufaal
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
th<» present Epidemic, wheie it has not made Its
appearance this f«afonj nor during any of the
years p.
I aupufl 25
To be Sold\ at Public Sale,
On ths Premises,
On Tutfday the 2sd day of OCtjler, i 798, at
half fajl two o'c/oci, in the afternoon,
Several very elegant Situations for
, SUMMER RETREATS,
Three and an half mifes from the Court koufe near
Frank ford road, being part of the fubferiber's
estate.
These situations are considered in
point of health, beauty and elegance, equal to a»y
near the city ; commanding a very extensive view
of the Delaware, the (hipping in the harbour, the
City, Harrowgate,Franklord, and Several elegant
country teatfe.
Any Jerfon desirous of viewing the
grounds, will please apply to HENRY HAIN£S
on the premises, or to the fubferiber, at Mr. Rich
ardet's coffee house, Germartewn.
The terms, which will be easy, will be
made known at the time of sale.
Should the weather prove bad on the a
bf*re mentioned day, the falc will take place on the
next fair day, at Ifce fame hour.
W. MACFHERSON.
cflober y. dti3P
Pennsylvania Hospital,
N9 mo. 1, 17,8.
O perft,« with an infe&ious difcafe, can be
admitted into this house ; it is therefore ear
ned I y recommended to the citizens, not to fend r
or bring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prcvailißg fever. Several perfous having
been f«nt here improporly, is the reason of givine- „ m
this caution. 5 * 5
By Order of tke 7 '
Sitting Managers, J FRANCIS HIGGINS, Stnu'J.
TOR SALE, V- _!
A FARM on the leading to State I (land,
wiihin four and an halfmiles of Philadelphia,
containing 45acres in the highe(k llate of cultivation
25 acre* of which is moadow, the remainder up
land. 1 here areon the premises, a new frame House
a»d Barn, with an excellent kitchen garden, contain
ing a great number of frit Trees.—lmmediate posses
sion will be given.
For terms apply to C°
Thomas IV, Francis,
No. 98South Third Hreet;
FOR SALK a
By ftie Subfcribirs,
Deliverable at any of rhe ports oa the Dela
ware—who have a!£b on hand at their ftorcs, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
thapeft will be attended to. j
Levi Bo!lings worth ts 5 Sort.
augnO *t. .
This Day is Published, r ?
AND FORSALE BY J. FKNKO, I I Q,g H I SNUT-ii K lIT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland, boa
ON the origin, progress and prel-Bt (late of Fal
French aggreffio», with a IketcW the infanions
attempts t« degrade the Government ot the United
States, and some reflexions on the late proceeding's
ui Congress; written the Utt of April uithe ; r «-
, V"'. b J » Member of the House of Repreieu
tatiYCs. c • I
■ J June 1 j *
i Public Nptkc is hereby G'rjeri,
1 1 "TIAT Propotals nnd«r iealedcovers, will be
lite- t, X reseived onthe behalf of the United States j
om- | isntd (he twentieth day of Oiflober next, by Jo- ,
' ml ! Jackl»:i, Esq. at Billon, MalTachufetts,
" l ' ,c 1 Icnch Francis, Esq. Phitarfclphia, Ptnni'yiva- I
in "[ i ''' 3 » John Swann, Elq, at Bait more. Ma- '
ail' Jryland, for supplying the following arliclel of
"o>t j cloathmg, lor the armv of the UrfTted States,
reft viz. '
FOR INFANTRY.
i„ 8,443 Hats, f
ur 1 504 Serjeant Coats
red ' Uo Tt ' ts i
nf a 1 pairs do. woollen overall*
tone ',608 ditto do. linen dittd .
, 01 , 1,016 ditio Ihirts
ij,j, 164 Mufleians coats
7,680 Privates coates
,as 7»944 ditto ' veils
Tint j S»SBB ditto woollen overall*
3 t 15,888 ditto linen ditto
fu. ditto Ihirts r
3.1,791 pairs of Socks
t is 33»7" pairs of shoes a
5,448 ttocks of black leather < o
8,448 Aotk c.asps S
; n , 8,448 blanketj.
FOR CAVALRY. [j
6 Muficiaiis coats
»6 Serjeant coats
. 16 ditto veil*
104 ditto Ihirta.
348 Privates coats '
354 ditto veils C
1416 ditto shirts*
' 76s pair °f Leather bfeeches
. ' 760 pair of llockings
1,11 760 pair of feoots
?8o Stocks of black leather
' 380 Stock clafpo
to 380 Blankets. . jl
1 ift. Every article (ball be made of materials, v<
equally good, and in form, or falliion, conform- th
wtt ably to patterns for the fame, sealed with the
leal of the War-Office, and; which will be de
pofittd with the several gentlemen, empowered
to receive the piopofals, as above mentioned. n
3 ' ad. Sworn lnlpc(£\oi9 .shall be appointed on j
■P" the part of the United States, to e»-amiße and w
deternuee upoa the several articles aforcfaid, tj
when the fame fbaljbe ready for delivery, with
full power to rejoft every article, wfikid (hall not
iut e^ ' n goodwill of materials, or to be mad*
cr; conformably to, the faftion of the flandard pat- „„
bc tern for the fame,- and na allowance fliall be 9 C
Jr . made, for any article which (hall be by St
u t . ihom, for the causes aforefaid. T]
3d. The piopofals must fpecify the number of
articles, and ineir kinds, which the party is
willing to furniih, together with, tke lowed
prices for immediate payment in money, audal
— so the price*, on the longed term, or terms of
credit. 4
T-; One third of each, and every of the several
t d kinds of. the above articles, to be delivered on . r
the fifteenth day of Decembpr, one thirst on
the fifteenth day oi January, and the remaining
_ third on the firit day of March next; and the | ftc
public will not be considered as bound to receive ! 8°
4ny of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, which
(hall not'be ceady for infpeaion, and delivery, w(
at the periods agreed upon,
ay 4 th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received G.
iu tfie several Hates, at the places, and in file tb%
e j proportions following, viz. One third part of r "
« the whole at Springfield, Maffachuletts, one
other third at Philadelphia, state of Pennfylva- _J
nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jerfeyj and
on* :Itird at Baltimore, Maryland.
_ jth. No contraa will be made, for a less H
number of each of the fcforefaid articles of J
( cloathing, than is rcquifite for a company, viz ,ic
FOR THE CAVALRY. &
13 ' 4 Seijeant Coats ,
4 ditto vests nr,
a ' 16 ditto (hirts an,
01 I Musician Coat on
ts s 8 Private coats
le J9 ditto veil* | n f
236 ditto (hirts ■%.
__ 63 flosks N ; Q f
63 (lock clasps ) u |
11b pair of leather breschei coi
li 6 pair of ftockiitgs >
■ 126 pair of boots ° —■
63 blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY. ) Tl
70 Hats
it 4 Serjeant coats I7<
4 ditto vests 'j
8 ditto woollen overalls Coi
1 8 ditto linen ditto ten
j 16 ditto (hirts yea
v a Musicians coats the
ie 64 Private coats 1
it 66 ditto vests * t
13a ditto woolen ov«rall#
e 13a ditto linen ditto.
S 264 ditto Shirts C
280 pair of Socks f^e
aBo pair of Shoes, rei
e 70 Stocks,
70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets. 'J' 1
c JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of Waif. KC(
War Department, i
attt Sept. 1798. 5 beh
Arrived in thtjhip Pennsylvania, Capt. Wi h- '~
liamson, from Hamburgh, now lying at j/
I Chester.
\ A Number of.GERMAN SERVANTS, men,
[ wemen, boys and girls, amongst whom are 1
Gunsmiths, Carpenters, l urncrs, Taylors, Black- B
smiths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntfme'a,
1 &c. &c. who(e time of lervitude is to be disposed E
of on board the Ship, by
C URNEr V SMITH.
aupufl T.%.
"Bengal Goods, " Dt i
1 CONSISTING GF j u
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz CofTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzixasj Tookereys
Eliabad Buftas Wrought Mufiint tx
I.ong Drawers " \A
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets a jjj_
ALSO,
Carolina (ndigo
Coffee in hogsheads r
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira m °J!'
WINE w
For Sale, on reaio'.able terms, hy
John Craig, 1^",
. , No. la, Dock-itreet. No
J" y l * mwstf w ;i|
Notice is hereby given, are 1
THAT application will he made to the Treafii
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the
following Certificates of Sit Per Cent Funded
Stock, Handing iu-rhe name of J„ii Carhvetl, of
I.ondon, the Cud Certificates having ;c n 101 l„n ' a*
board the Swallow Patket, Captain ICidd. from J
Falmouth to New-York
Ao. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 dblh. f T "
2964 I do. 5000 C *
10,577 1 J a . 3000 t. ■ rma!l
I'/illings Ss* Fianci,. ' ft!
Philadelphia, august 30. co4w
0
1 i ill i .- >v
CASTOR OIL ,
be Is nAich wanted ; Those who
>j« it to dispose of will find a ready fal<*
tt>," applying to any of the Apotheca
va- ries.
««*f "* -POST-OFFICE!
tcs » Philadelphia, September t6.
T forKew-Caftle, Castwcll bridge,
X Duck creek, Dover, Frederica, Milford,
Georgetown and Dagfboro.igh, Delaware,
Trop and Sno-whill, Maryland, Horn Town.
Accomack court-house, aad Northampton court
house, Virginia ; will be closed at thij office ev
ery Monday , Wednefnay and Friday atlialf past
eight o clock, A. M. until jft da of A P fl
1799. 1 * "»
ROBERT PATTON.
September 26 dllt
■ °f the United States. )'
Philadelphia, Sept.mber 11, 1798.
1 lie public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deppfit and Difconnt will be opened
on Monday next, at the house lately occupied by
Samu.c Richardet, near the Market House in
Germantown—where the- bufinefc of thrs Inftitu.
tion will bs tranfailed during the continuance o.
the nj»!>?nant now prevailing!,, Philadelphia.
HENRY KUKL, /IJJiJlant Cajhitr.
September ai d
Wanted ; a Person
WHO will contra.* to fuppjy the Marine
Corps, \fcith ratioss, &c. Apply to
W. W. Burhowes,
Major Commandant of the Marine Cart,
aept 29 * '
Wanted to purchaje*
A p Pfi°VED bill, on Amftcrdam, for wkich
J- j- ca(h will he gi ,en at the rate of thirty fe
'T « "I' P r ?"r! U ' er ' , c App, y to the Calhier of
n- the Bank of the United States.
Ie Septum T7qX.
■d For bale.
THE Subscriber, intending, to decline iK»
DRUG BUSINESS, offer. For Sale !£
m whole Stock of
J h ' and Medicines, Instruments,
9t The {hop i» elegant, commodious, »«d faffici
ently known for the extenfjve business Cone in the
*■ wholcfal. and retail line ; the Ctuation equal to
*ny in the city, being at the corner of Walnut ami
)e Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
>y Stock, will be fold, as will bed suit the purchaser.
Ths terms may be known, by applying to
? f „„ , MOORE, jon.
J® Wlo has For Sale,
e " •"'culated for the
u Peggy, about 3©tensburthen
g Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
e e i good'<*der? d " UgIU - ri 88»g 5
h The Sally, about tons, fails
r, welU and in complet. order forthelurafcrbuGnefs.
, L erf " BS indebted to the late firfn of
d GMthvart V BaU-m., IV. B. Goldthvait, Gthl.
e th.aul& AU,r, m the fubferiber, ire earnestly
't rcqucfted t® make fpeody payment to
e JAMES MOORE, jbn.
l- au ß»'« 3 5
(1 ' r
Ship If Insurance Broker,
s r r Subscriber, encouraged by the advice
lf r <>>" hi « service to the pub
-5 lie as a Ship and Insurance Broker H. Dro
poles to buy and fell vessels and every thing re
lating thereto—assist matters of vefTel, and ofher.
m entering and clearing at the Cultom House,
procuring and Ih.ppmg freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necessary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matter.
From a knowledge gained by long experience
i™ 2r ran r haf,nefsheh °p« to in
fill to those who pleale to fav or him with thsir
co ™™ u 'SAMUEL EMERT.
■ rh'ladelphn^augult 24th, 1798,
City Commissioners' Office^
TN pursuance of an ordinance of the u'eleil and
A pC ommo* Councils, passed the 2jd d»y of May
Proposal. in writing will be received by the City
PeX;" r for , onc . mQnth ' rom the firft of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year tocmmenc. the firft day of January n^
the following public property of tke city
The wharf and Janding on Vine street
Also on SaiTafras, 1
Mulberry,
And High llreet I.
Dr » w bridge, witli
ftrteu 3 ' SprUCe • Pina Cedar
The Cellar under the City HalL
wi^r'JV?" " - the n,iddle on Schuylkill,
tTeren^ a A "nt,guou ? thereto (except so much
efr , , / ? CCU P' ed h rany buildings erec
-or the uk of the Collcaorof the Tolls, or bo
a-ectflary for the toll gates;.
1..C n ated u m^' mgol the C'ty CommidtoF.ers will
e H C ' ty H f eVery Turfda y —ing t
ten o clo k, during the present epidr-mir eo i m
James C. & Sam/. W. Fi/her
No; 13 Aich-Striit, *
Have Jor Sale
200 Calks best refined Salt Petre
Best London Window Glass from .0 by 8 to
12 by 10 7
Ditto Glaf. Ware in Caftsafforted conliftinc
C\X 0t nd , ha,f -P"« Tumblers, Wins
OlafTes, Gotblets, &c.
A few Bales of Ked' Whi'fe a R d Yellow Flan
nels, Bnizes and Kendall Cottons.
JUne ■ wwtf
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHERE AS Jam"*. Cumming sa" Co. late o(
the cit/ m.rthants, have
mixed' «Th r ' rea1 ' »nd
mixed, to the iubferibtrs, lor the benefit of all
m,/ rC ,I' t °r > W ° < ! 1 " fßhfcribe 'he said a (W
n months from the date hereof
NO 1 ICE IS HEREBY GIVEN t. all c
who are indebted to the said l all P erfol »
Wdi Sin^r'tCrS STtd'f^
are n« discharged a«erding|y? X ° f ' U<h dtbts "
John Travis, "J
John Haddington, I
James Taylor, T A%neci<
Cornelius Comevvs I
aagust 18 &J* J
—I—. mwftrD
TO BE SOLD,
j HE , "r 16 a " ""dented Dutch Servant BOY
1 who ha< ten years to fervr T. 5 '
small COS and me*C« i.- <1 l > 8 had tHe
an«l lit fcr l.oufe work
tu ££ f r* UD ' ror
*