tlttttl ahb Philadelphia Daily
NffMSER 1727.J
Freight Wanted.
FOR BZEMfiffi'
The Hamlyrgh Brig
HENRTKTTA,
Piter P. Schmidt, Majler,
NOW lying at'Jc!ft indß Wain's wharf—A
ftont, jkrongjveffel, of abotrt 170 tosi b«r
in £OoJ ord-F ; h» two thirds of her carjo
•«><♦* ro£o onJw«V™' i tcj;ia» to lead to-morroW.
for FreigST'Dnly, apply to
PRATT fcf KINTZING,
i No 95, North *A'mt i-ftreet.
Wbo &**' JUST RECEIVED, and FQk SALE,
lz bale*Tiekleburgs and Oznatrigs
j do. V-itterbornrn
j do. bleached Heflians
X package Oil Cloth
1 .heft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
s j anchor* pearl Baryle, »nd
( cases elegant Carriage Hirne(«, Whips,
Sj uri, &c.
. THEY HAVE FOt SALE
Claret in cases. Port 1V ir.e in pipes, RuKia Soap
in fniallboxes, Rice, Brin:llore, Turablars, Win
dow Glass, Slues, a earpo of excellent Maloga
ny, Keflims, Brown Rolls, Polish Liners, empty
Coffee Eagj, &e &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march to tuthsiw
For NEW-YORK, *
s a T r*a H",
Captajn Coon*.
FREIGHT .#« he taken on Tery low terms, if
affcred immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. 5
For NEW-TORC
Stephen Cahoone, majlsr ;
«T *"iPiSnKi--i 1 vvll ,L take freight on very
jnoderat* term<; for which, passage (having
elegant accommodation*) apply to the master on
board, at Clifford's wharf.
march 16. "fit
For Sale,
NOW lyinjr *t Rnff l's Warf—
-Bnrfhen 17 lon j—-three years old, built of the best
■aterials and i« well found—would answer well
tbr a cnafter, at (he has excellent accommodations.
For terns apply to
C time j Iff Smith.
anarchy 5_
For Boston,
>—*. The Ship
COMMERCE,
Hiehwd Waifteoat, Mafltr,
c ' 0 1 ,cw
ft- Any freight tha* may offer,
will be taken on very mo'rfit' terms , for which,
M paflage, apply to the Captain, or to
i tlket Hsryty, jun.
J, don.ll inui-inww —■
march r». s?w
~ -FOR S ALE, ""
Weft Itid^n,
Philadelphia b«ilt, lire oak end
aedar, is coppered, fseathed and bolted, j ysvrt
•aid, fails-remarkably well, carries 1J et 1600 Var
rets—now lying at S<p«th-ftr«et wharf, ready to
bad PltfEß. BLIGHT.
match 6. §iw
For Hamburgh,
the lair
Dominick Terry,
prftSffpjf Jacob D*«art, Majler,
great part of her cargo ®n
,pg«d.—For freight apply to
Jeffe (s? Robert lYaln.
febwiary t6 S
Nicklin iff Griffith,
At their Btore on Walnat Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR »ALI,
<$ blxjs. ef Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wi»ein pipes a*tlhhd».
TdferjfTe do. in
Old Port rfo. in hhl;.
Tmncrial Tea in quarters and eighths of *h«fta
iaii Canvass, No. t, to t
Oiiaities, Ginjharas, a«<l Muflinets, ia packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Nails aflorteii
Hack quart battles
ware in hfcds. and sratss
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expected round
as form as the navigation is open.
.' ? ine Liverjte d Salt
Ooal»
Spini'h Brown "J
\cnetian Red j
Purple 3rowa ! p AtNTS
Parent White f
White Lead |
Red Lead J
lolccthar vitriol
*6O bundles
learning Twine
For Sals or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
NTB. TUe late £rra of Philip Nicklin & Co.
• now ohtaged to
NICKLIN £sT GRIFFITH.
January 1. eotltf
For Sale or Charter,
1 it Snow
W&4 GOOD HOPE
Will carry about t aoo barrels, and
is ready totake ia a cargo. For terms
' ?ply to
Pragers & Co.
No, 151, South Recond-flrpet.
Whohavifor sale—prime St, Croix Sugar
id KtiTTi, Madera, L ftxm, and Tenerifi'e wins.
.Novetaber 7. iltf
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 23, 1798.
On Tueiday, the ioth day of
April neat, at 7 o'clock m tine even ng, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, ir the Cirv
of Philadelphia, •
WILL be exposed to public sale, ftveatei*
tiafU or parcels of JandTituaitd in Poi.-v
town(hip in the county ef Nortl-snnberUtid, and
contain in; in the whole si* thoaCj-s: five* hijn
drcd and fixtv-four- acres a.n»i three quarters,
with the vfual allowance for roads.
Terms o£ (ale, l-j of the purchase raeneyon
the exec«;ion of the tired, 1-5 in three nannths,
and I-.; in fix months, ia goed tictes or other
approved fecaritr
CONNELLY
March 9. rawti* dtica
.IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Boutdeaux,
AND FO» SALS ty 111 SUBSeaißEn^
Claret ia cufks
White wine in hjlf calks
"Sweet oil o a superior quality in boxes and bafcets
Lunelle
Sauterne (
Mccarty, and 4 Wioe. wCrfes.
Meloe j
Tbomat Murgatrcyd,
\ No. ti, a'a nat Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourd.-aux Brandy iii pipss -j lntitled
Iri(h market > ( to
Medoe, and Sau» erne J inei m Clfe '' 5 drawback
Pherr wine iii-pipesand quarter casks
Rota
Pirpenta in bagg
Two trunks of Umbrella*, an 4
About 40QO bufliels i iverpool Salt. #
margh 19 raw^frf
~ . Jatgcricg Comroiftjed.
WHKJUTAJ i Several
in thi# cit^r. r . by oncer two persons I
known by the names of Dr. Grant,'alias Smith,
slias Gil. ert. Grant generally won a green cost,
tall in pitif»n, and genteel, had loft one or two
t-etb in front about July, 1796, at Mr.
Grimes's ti-vcrn, at the George, S.-cond
llreet j his frieo ls live in New-England ; furpof
eri to hive romm.tted several forgeries in New-
York. and is said to be confined at tke wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for dealing watches. The other
is a (hort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert, —
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. Bignall, *ud leve
ril other pcrfoas in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wll. Prist
man. No 15, South Fifth-ftreel, will be
ed a favor. ■ Gilbert is betweea 10 and 30
years old, yt'llaw, fiekly look.
m ~'h <1- 'jawjw
RedClovtjr Seed of the belt quality.
Madeira wim.
Old, and fit for immediate use, ia pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window (Jlaff—all of which will be f#ld
on veiy rcafaiiable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock Street.
march 1 wftttf
I HE term of Co-paftnerOiinJtetweeii Lfce fub
hr, jun.and Cm. expires this day, aad by mntnal
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will he fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all th< fe iadabted.to the psrtnerfhip,
are earnestly reqaefted »« make payaient to, with,
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J n n.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19
LANDING,
From oa board tke Ship Sally, from
•> Calcutta,
AMD ISt SALS BY THt KllSllltt,
i£oo bags prime Sugar,
800 «©. Ginger
30 bales lew priced Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march |
FOR SALE, it
John Miller, jun.
No. S, Chefnat-ttract,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHIHM ARB
[ Gurrahn M.imeodies
Baftas ' Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda Cofiais
Guazies Emertics
1 Blue Cloths Galicses
Palampoors Ronxall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of tiierna
nufa&ures of Pataa,
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
Fri>mary ip 5
Alex. y. Miller & James Davis,
ilayif>g entered intb tinker the first
Alexapder J. Miller is? Co.
INFORM tkfirfriend*in town and country, that
th y have qpenec: a Wholesale Ury Good Store,
at No 64, South Hrnot S/reet, PhiMfeelphia; wher»
they now 'ave and intend keceptn; a general af
fortnient ' f India, Gn-nrj«, Irijt, Frtnch and Sri
tjb MsnnfaSuresfcr sale, oa advantageous term?
for eafli or a (hort credit.
Febraary 19 stf
The Cominiffi'oni rs
FOR carrying into tflfcA th« TWENTY-FIRS'I
Article of the T reaty of Friejidfllip, Limits, ami
Navigation, between Hrs Catholic Majesty
United States of Am trie*, hereby giveintopnatior
to all Person* therein cofkerned —T hat in ..rdci
to terminate att differences on account of the'.ofi
e:i fuftainedby the ct'tlzons of the United States, i:
oonlcquence of their VclTe's ntl Canjoe*
been take« by rhe-SttiijedU of His Carbolic JVtajet
ty, daring the late war her ween Spain and Franc,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
-1 tween the hours of tew and one o'clock, dailg) ali
complaints and applications authorized by tJsc said
| Article, dur/ng months, fr©m the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power
examine allfuch persons as time bsfore them, on
oath or affirmation, touchiug the complaints in
question, and also to Act ive in evidence, all wr«t
ccn teftiniony, authenticated in such manner as
they (hall think proper to require or admit.
My Of for of tbi CotomifjiZiers,
3 PETER LOHRA, Secretary*
Gimm'JJtMers OjJite % No. 109, Mulberry-
AU* 1797.
Feb. 28, *98 —4im
r Thoft Printers in the ftntral Statu ttrbo £ubhj*-
eJ th* hLoih 4uk*rtije;xent laji Springs are requeued tc
re-fulljlt it »r.e month, andfend their Mtcudti to Jr. L.
By John Fenno, N°- il9
HANDING
Frim oh board the Stlogner RAy:auk, from
230 Bags, containing wt. Coffee,-
Forfait by
SAMUEL HAYS,
N°. IS7 Ci«fnut-ftieet'
\. h.t bts remaining on band 6 ,0c0 tticccs In
dia NANKEENS, ofafupenor quality.
March i;
JUST RECEIVED, "
»aoM r0 a t-a v-vi Inc e,
And FOR SALE, by the SUOSCRICF.RS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
a 6 tierces da.
100 barrels do.
100 do
lio Mtifcova4o Sugar
80 barrel* of do.
40 hogsheads of Molaflct
4 bale* of Cotto-i
* hogiieads of Cocoa
WILLINGS FRANCIS,
P»ma-£L-ecf.
march (). §
LaniiingHFrom on board IKelhlp 4
Tennellce, capt. Smith, from FaAiburg, j
And FOR SdLE by the Swßsceißeas,
335 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platilias
lOC do Creas
Si do. do. Ala Morlai*
. lOti do. Uovvlas
do. red ftripel A labia*
10 «!q. blue. Gain jai
Ico dozen bordered Hardkerphiefs
Eric ££f Ltivis HoUmuntt,
(at. South Tbitd ttreet.
' Ajlsq. am uakjq.
t cafe of printed Muslin* aud CalUocs '
mtrch i«. 52t
Frefli Teas.
Jnjl Imported, in the Jh'tp DeUwtre,
Captsin Cooper, from Canton,
AtJ For Smlt, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his C*<nptiag House, No. 54, Chofaat-ftreet,
* AKD »T
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At kisCoaipting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
Hyson, Hyson Skia, aad Imperial TEAS,
al*o,
China Wire, allotted; blaek aad coloured Imte
(lriog* and Sattins, Naakeens, Cassia. large girdea
and common Fans, fattin ind lutestring Una l* ell is,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbty bmi al/i Ftr Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanaa Ha»ike-ebi.fs,
French Carabricks aad Umbrellas, f agai ii boxes
march I. £
Te-morrow will be Landed,
Frost on board the brig Benjamin Ffranklia, oapt.
Joce«. from Bordeaux, /
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDQC Of the vinWgesof 170 ».:d 1751,
ALSO,
WHIT* WINK, of the vintage of 17*0
>OI SAL' IT
PHILIPS, CRAMOND ii Co.
march 7. $
' FOR SALE, "
By THE fUßsCßlßar.r, No. 11, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Oreen, commander,from Bengal,
Conlijting I/
Bafta*, of various quaiifiet and prices,
ColTaes Pu'njum Cloths
Sanahs Gu??t/do.
Humbun)* Charconna Oorra
Blae CJcth Tanjfbs
Chinti and Calicoes Muimnls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pstna Hkft.
Oinghaßns Mvlmu de.
Guzzenas Bandannoea
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoe* Choppa Komats
Salgatcbys Sooty do,
Gillie Romals Persians of virions col.
Mock Pulicats
100 tons SUGAR
9», 000 lb. PEPPEK.
Willings s3° Francis.
The Piece Goods.
Of the Ganges are now open to (ale at that
commodious (lore th* north wfft corner" of
Market and Fonrth-ftreet*.
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February I. dtf
~ROSS fcf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
' A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags arid boic«
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RWM.
and Bt n.ga! j
talks RIC2, ar.d
A parcel of (hip building REE> OEBAR.
0(?t 17.
Landing
I"rem onboard the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
• A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
300 pieces Kavens Duck
ajo pieces Russia Sheeting
ado bolts RufTia Duck, aad
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & C«.
IT La have on Hand,
ift and »d proof Bourdeaux lUaody .
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-Ei glintl Rum
London Particular Madeira Wine in Pipes
r j 1 «t , C and quarter Caiks.
I/ondon Market J *
Old Claret in Cases
' 14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Best Bcfton Beef in barrels
Mackrell in dr.
Halifax Salmon ir. do.
A small favoice of Rhodc-Iljand Cheese
Spermaciti Oil
Tanccrt ditto
■JTo. i. 2, j, BoSon fail Duck
RufTra Cordage, and ( -
An Invoice of Dutch Hallow Glass » arc.
M.rchi. 4»w
Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
from " An A<sl to authoriie dbe Govrrnor
of this Commonwealth to
ay for - *
ver Schu; rLill, a: or cur ihc city of l'hala^ir)-
p h '*-" .. 1
r, c J Tl? ii it tbertftrt rn.iX.-J by. tke Kmrntt (
i 1 Htuje Rtprcfentahvti of. tbi Cu*mc-m- ,
Vzrr iUb %f Feimfylvani* in irmhtrsl vtet, nmj it \
is hereby ennfled by the autbirity the faint, I hat |
Peters, John Ptrot, Godfrey c
Maltbew M'ConHcll, a d William Shesff, or any (
three of them, be, »n<> ar.- hereby appointed Com- f
miiGontrs ta do and perforp» the several duties t
herein after mentioned, that is tofay : t
Thry (hjlland m»y, on or before the fifft ilsy |
of June cext. procure one or mare books, as they
jliall thii.k ncceSTary, and therein enter at. fcilows, J
viz. 1 t
" We, wbofe names are hereunto fubferibed, dp f
promise to* pay to the Prefidi nt, Directors a;.d t
Company, isir credlinj a over the nvcT j
ociiuyi(iiil, et or near *hc etty of the
sum ol one ollar at the time of fubfcril.irg, ani [
011 a dollar in three n*onth> thwrealt:r ; tor cv.-ry
(hare of Uprlt in the f.id CDmp&nyt fef oppsfite to
ouriefpe -ive nam's, ai d iheTeCdoe at ;hc
1 rate of teD dcrtlaTs for c'ich fiiarc. I.i fucli n itiner
ahd proportions, and at fucli t'ir.ies as i}ia;l be <1
termiiiH by the Prifidetit eoi} l>ireflori eh* f.-u iu '
parfuancenf an adcf Geueraf Kffembly,entirkij, .
*' .An A<3 to aurhcrire th Governor ot tl l'Caif)-
a raonwcalth to incprporjtff a company Cot ere -
" inga perma:iint bridge over the river Sthm lhi'll,
" at or near the city •! HiiWielphiu"—tvnd (half
thereupon pr«cee<i to receive f\ibferipti''ii« far I 'the .
f.o'ck of the fcidcompany, which itnerelfy.Mtcfari
ed and intended-ra he she Aim of tine tandrvd a:.i) 1
ftfty tlioafjnd dollars, divided Into fifteen thoafead -
(harej, at ten dollars each; at fueh times and plac- ]
e» asthey (ball thii k proper, ol uhich pu l ilicrTi.i
tice fhatl fee given, in' tbrcr or*-mtS£i » -
(one »f wliicli (hall be in the > UTtftan laogifij;*) j
primed in the city of Philadelphia, lor at haft ,
twenty days before the firllday of meeting. Ahd |
if before the said Hock be completed, they {hall
adjaarn for more than three day*, notice of tie j
time' and place when and Commifiiohers j
will next receive fubferiptions, (nail be in at (
Jea.l one newspaper, printed in the faid'fity ; and
it (hall be-lawful for any person, body politic, or
corporate; to fubferibe for as many (hares, not ex
ceeding one hundred in one day a, hi, (he or they 5
(hall choose ; provided always, thit rvery person
offering to fubicribe is aforefaid, ia his own name, j
or any other name, (hall previ: uMy pay to the at- 1 L
tending commissioner one dollar, for every lhare (
to be fubferibed, out of which (hallbe defrayed the j
expences attendiug taking fach fubferintions and : £
other incidental charges, and the remaii drr (hall
be paid over to the treafarer of the corporation, j
as soon a*, the fame (boil be orgarixed and the eft- £
eers chofun, as is herein after aientioned ; bnt the j
laid commiflioners (hall rcferve tire thousand
stares, which (hall be appropriated by the Prafident
and Dirceiors and used, if the fame be found re
quisite, tor the purposes herein after mentioned, of
vetting therein the monies to be appli»d tor a fink- '
injfunil, to freethc kridge.aod toei able the PreG
dent, Directors and company, to purchde there- a
witli if the fame can be done, a fcite or piact for c
areifting * bridge
Sach c f the said reserved (bares as are not used {
for tfceie purposes, to be open for further futiftrip- t
'* l *t~w't | ' l 'i ■« t
according to circumilancas, deem prrper.
I. Jnd be it further 4nastd iy tke a
autbtritj afarefaii, That wi ch one hut died
perforis,or aiore, (ksll have fi.-bfcribed five tho t
fand (hare* in the said stack, the said Cotamif- -
fitmers, refpeflivcly, (hill certify antler thc.r
hands and lirals, the names of tke subscribers,
ind the number of (hare* fuhfcrllied by ( «rap-
poi t+»ped to taeh fubli riber, to the- Governor cf
thii and thrrcupon it Ifcaliand ):
may be lawful for the Governor, by le.ters pa-' g
lent, under his hand and fe.il »f the date, to ere- f,
ate an e;efl'rhe fu.,ft,i e rs ; a.4 if the laid r
fubfcripiion be not f Hat the tin,*, thote aif..,
bo (hall afterwards lufefer.be to tlie miniver a- is
forefaid into < ne body poii ic and.corporate, Iu
detd and in law, by tbr iiame, fti!e*and title of P
" The i'refident, l)ire<fli<rs and C'ln uny, for
ere<sling a permanent bridge ovrr tie river
Schuylkill, at or Bear ijie c tv of Ph la 'e phta ""
and by tbe faiil name the f id fubtcribcra fha 1
have perpetual succession ; and all- p 1 ivilejje.-
and fram hif«s incident to a corporation, and 7
(hall be capable of taking a#id h Iding tbein iii
said capital (lock, ard the insreafe and profits
therref j aiid of enlarging the fame fr.nn time
to time, by new fabferip'rions. in fueh niissner
and form asthey fnnHthink proper, ,f fueh en-
(hall be*fo»nd ne'ccfl'jry to J fulfil the
intent rjf this afl ; and of taking, purcha'fti g
and holding to ihem and in • fei. .
Cmple, i r fe.- any ess estate, all ful'h Ifnds, ten _
ements, hertditameats and eiiatc, real and per
fopal, as (hall be neceflary «tid convenient to p
them, in the prosecution of their works, and the
fame to f it and dispose of at their plellVii* ; and
cf fuitvg and being sued, and of doir.j; ai! an I
every »ther matter *nd thing, which a corpora
t':Oß er body politic may lawfully do.
The subscribers Csmmi(Ti«>nti s appointed in
ths ail before-mentioned ,-foi the fmi poses there
in exprelTed, hereby give notice agreeably there
to, that book, are provided, as the law direfis,
and that we will proceed to receive fubferiptions
for the Company Stock, on the 9th day of A
pri( next.at the City Hall, in the city of Tlii- -r
iadelphia. Th« fubferiptions will be received' J
frofnten o'clock in the morning of the fa'W day,
till two o'clock. P. M. the Hooks will con
! tinue open during th< fe haurs ot succeeding
1 days, at the fame place, until one hundred per
! sons, rtr raere. have fobfcribed five thousand
j Ciares in the said (fork, as in and by the said aft
is directed and required.
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEKQT,
GODFRY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
V.ILLIAMSHEAFF.
Pbiladtlfkit, lytb March, 171%. jawtf
. _ fr<
w
Prilon M anufa£lory. th
FOR SALE, A
At the Prison of the City and County of Phi!*del« an
' - F hia . C.
' Cut Nails of all fixes, from 3<}y to2edy
Flooring Brads. Sprig<gs, saddle and card Tacks
Oalmm sud chipped Logwcod *
SboemaUei s and Sadlcrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's taMo,
tomb and hca Rones, hearths, chimney piec «,
platforms, slabs, (acia, -.viadow Jiaa<i, ulis, c . »
All which may l:e bad on reafon.blr terms, an
Shoes made and Weaving done at feid Prison at Ct
a model ate price. J
Orders from a ditlancc, dire<3ed to Daniel Tho- r e
nlji, agirt for the psifbn, Kill he «tte»d«d to. >0
Detetiker zO. jnt>,6«
Law Hook Store,
No. jr'9, Hiph-ftreet.
George Davis,
IMPR F.35J?'> with tlrr f»*or* flu-we hinl is hi*
eforti Wt(tiMMi'» '-tori for Yke fdjt of l.rtr
only, Bfjf- leaVe to inform the Cetitltoiec
of the Bar generally through' #». the United State*,
that in addition to bit colftvtiir- now ou 1.a..d,
whkh if fUppoJe-to he anix txtrrfivr, than' in
the pcfi fian of arfy i iie p,>lim i*r {tic in A nieri
ca, h ilnjli ttaily v-jy large supplies r rfW Loa
do; & DuVliri, particularly iroin iht laittt place,
havingchirfly cr.nfinrdbi» importations ro Theft • di
tioir., a- being in Ijis opinion rquallv correal with
the London , opirt, and well known to be infinite
ly- lower charged.
G D limiting fiimfelf, fols'y to tlv/f;.!e of Law
ficok«, it wil! appear obviuyno prufeffional gen
tlncicn the great advance; they havem pui chafing
from h.ai, kutli as to £clci3ion avdpritt, of which
the encouragement ke has rueiVed for feverilye»r*
past, is Ihe belt tiftunoi.y he can offer.
n arc'i aO. - • ■-* : *jw
'jufi rtctivid, and fir S*!t 4( tit jftetijltrt of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No '• Secnd I'ttii.
A tovPLtft uiiioyv OF
CONNECTICUT,
CITtL AND ECCI.S»IA3TIC<IL,
Frm U imiitta' ion .';| i . UtL t>'iu:e»» uCtaCn*
i.'i Ain i6»e, TV t7l Jt- •
B, &£.VJJJJJX TUJMBVLL, a. d.
VO I'lll 1
Embelliflis ! with a corre.2 Map of the State, and
Portrait* of f;m« <w the £ril feitur*, from origi
nal paintings.- _ .
roar. l, i Vnjee
Ran away .iron, the Jubtcriber,
q# tjit I tv-o-Hi 'i-jici!- Iriii- Mr>rair»Men:
Themsv Xi'Ouiro, a'jfcutAJ «jie and j
feec 8 iurbe* high, rot>»Q, ftent, «rtd weil made,
thert black hair,, rwnarkabln for a fear 011 orte of <
hi? templet; he is a forward, deceitful, v*.-i'6u»,
and uapriticiploi fellow, and decoyed fr.- m my"
lervice Jeffr) artrrur" the fame- age *ad
height, hut of a milder difpbfitlon a d more {len
der make, short brown hair ; th«ir working appa
rrlwai blue cloth oyer jickets, lined With coarse
browa linen, cluck and brown lire: l shirts, gr*y
yarn fnclings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfer*,
: am! ruflett leather tho*«; they have oth-rtioa'hiug
, w luch altogether giTts them the appearance if f«a
---! faring «ne*, 'ut have been brought up to the :arm
f ing butinr ft ; no doubt w ill, have paffe and
change their rianiti and apparH u co»vi nient, aod
have taken the post road to Ph'.lapelphia, I pwr
i chaf;d thtm fall of opt. R»Hin«, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
so that 1 get them and will pay all reafonahlc
charges if brought home, or if fepararrd, Thirty
Dahart forTkomai. l'" rnty f< r | fFry.
ARTHUR BRYAN,
Head of Wye, ■ albot County KUrch 7,
match 14. inwjw
THE Subscriber informs thoft
to whom he in indebted, that i pirfon will,
attend every rfay, Sunriay« xeepted, ui.til the ift
of -ipril nut, from the ho« 1 »f 10 o'clock inthc
qmrning till 1 o'clock ju the'aiternoon, at the honfe
formerly occupied Uy him i. Chefoot-firer- for .
, the putpo;e of ,Tißwii,i.aH hm k., .nd let.
te» regarding hi» pal tommrrcia! trsrfaaioni M
i«Ui ot hi* cr*d;torr at may thh:k propertt sf#.nl
aad examine them
JAMES GREENLEAF,
""'b »' eotlA
To It Let,
A three story brick Hrule,
Wiih Stil fes. and a Garden cont.ilning neariy one
atre of ch, ice groun l, C Suminrr Houses,
' $ c - onßace . from
Schuylkill,; the whoie in gqod cot dttion, the
ntu ipon high. and excelleot for a piacc of
public en-crtainment.
All adjoining l.ot, 40 feet front and it* deep,
i« alio to let. r
>*or terns apply t« the fubferiber, at No. to,
Pine ftreit .
Wm. currie.
march„ It s
landing, ™"
AND FOR «ALI,
The Csrgo of the ih;p Fair American,
liam*. Barke, mailer, from Aux-Cay.,, now ly
ing at BsH'i wharf,
CO* »1| ; IKO ,w
Mola(1e«, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Wood, ]
Apply f«
ISAAC HARVEY, jwn.
Siw South .U ater-flreet.
For Sale,
Bv Elliston ?s'John Pjerot
4t, North IVaUr Street,
Londoiil particular Madeira Wine, in pipr« and
quart r_cafk>, 4 yean old and fit for immcdiat* of*.
Interior do.
A few hales AllihiJ ColTes
Bandanna Handkerchief*
' Sail ran val*. No. i,too
A fewbagi ot Jiuiiper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China.
■ " larch ' t-W 4 w
James C. W. Hfher,
wr THE.R STOfiE, *
No-'I3, cortwr cf Arch and front ftieet.
BjHtr rot SAlt,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks,ifTored"
A tew ba!e ß red, white, and vellow flannel *
Bitto fu'ty romall Handkerchiefs
' Ditto Fullicatfilk ditto
Ditro Votictieherry and Mad.-as. di«o
llitto Gurrahj
Berg-1 black Taffctics
40C0 pieces Nankeen*, and
Few cht'fl* bell Hyson Tea
Aifu— i.ioc b,«., i, e ft London Window Olaf.
from Bby 6, .to 19 hy i 4 htdl o]ifg '
are affortvd, wh.ch they will difyofc of ch Sip «. t
thaq any id the city. *
-JSZULI Stawtf
At a Meeting of the Prefid^g
and Managers of the Dtuwaua.d
Canal Company, February 17th i,nß
¥ dvcd >TA"'"— each fli stock
be called for ; »t,4 that the Treafurcr
"° tiCe theTtof a £ re «ible
*ieR*FAKLE^ ;K RRAII " S"r«"J
jvi ? a of ih, Prefid.nt
and Manaycr* of the SchvMUr' •
C ""P""7< the Stoekbolrlcrs are hereby reou " t ,
maae a payment of ten dollar, on -.ch'of the r
re ota.ve fl.ares , the i#»f Ap ri ]
February »g. ' " 1 Treafurn.
[TOtUMJB. XIII.cON£R E s s -
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
DEBATE -TAKING.
Wednesday, March ai.
The House being in a cpmnutteeof »he wnol
on the report ofa falect commit tee on
ral propolitions referred to it forjimei J g
the btanding Rules, and a provrtmn being
under confederation forallowing perlons at
tending the house for the purpole of taking
an account of the debates apd proceedmg,,
to take their places within the bar ot the
M H °R e NICHOLAS moved that the coin
inifee fho«M rife. He hopedl this fub
ie£t wouiir net be ;*ted upon at prefen..
believed his colleague (Mr.
brought it forward, had waved the caM.ng ot
,t v.pf from an idea that the d.fcuffion of it
miKht i roduce some personal irritation. He
hoped, therefore, it would be
4 he public business which was before the
House wasdifpofed of._ _ '
•Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) d.dnota
w hat the gentleman meant by persona rrua
tion He hoped he would explain h.mklt.
Mr. Nicholas replied, that the g e "^"
man from Naw-Jerfey molt recolert the ™ -
Mil. v.hith be ex pre lied h.mlelf
proportion was brought forward. Hertqtt
red ir t l»e cv dll Uted, and made a decla
ration which (hewed that he h.mleU
rd his conduct as with it. When
the importance of a faithful report of the
proceedings of that House «?s c oiiMered, U
mult be allowed that it was of cotifequence
rl It i» itono amending for the purpose ot ta
kin" flutes fluaid be as independent atpotii
blsr If, however, no
his o, n feelings as concerned he fl,« d have
no iifpofifiod to wave the fubje-t, but as ti
did not expetf It would have been entered
upon to-day, he hoped the committee would
rife, and let it be taken up at an early period.
Mr Allen hoped the committee would
not ric, until some information was given as
to the method of doing this buimefs. It wa»
understood by the people abroad that the d«-
bares were pubhlhed by the clerk of t,
House, and authorised by the House. He
wished' the fpbU might be undeceived on
this point. He .had seen prions in the Htmle
*h«Wp»ared to ike down the proceedings; ,
but he w lifted tq know how they came there. (
He thought the public had been abided by ac
raunts of debates « hicji had been pubhlhed, ;
and lie >■ ifhed the clerk to be exonerated from (
any blame in the business. ;
Mr D iwsON hoped the committee would [
rife for the reaions which had been mention- .
cd.' When he firlt offeied this resolution to (
the House, he declared he had no particular (
vcrftlii fn view. He thoffght it founded on {
propriety tUftl found reafou, ahd therefore he (
prupofci i'- , i j I
Mr. Go K.D9N hoped the committee would (
i, >r rite. He was himfelf ready to vote upon ]
the qutliiot;. He did not wiflb by any means (
to.' iVe the fan WSni <3 the House to any de- .
b Ifcs wh'Kh upglit.be p.ibjifhed. He did not (
tiiink'the queflou of that importance which
tiie gentleman irom Virginia feemcji to attach i
° Mr. Day ton hoped that a decision might '
be had wtliout. delay, efpeciaily as the
gentleman* from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas)
had given the. bufinels a turn and direc- (
tion which the mover of the proportion
himfelf had difavoWed. He knev/that the
proposition would prod it re this but he
did not suppose any gentleman would have a
vov.-e.i, on'rhis floor, that this question was
to bs tonivcited with a late deciiion of the
Speaker. It gentlemen intended this, tfhy
did tbev not do it in an op€U, cAndid, and
man)v manner, by an appeal from the decision
of the chair'at the time. If the motion was
intended toreijillate a man upon the floorwhom
the Speaker had discharged from it, he wiihed
it bow to be decided, and not to lie till the
end of the fefiion, to be called up or not, at
the will ot ths mover, in order to have it al
cerrained whether the Speaker had acled pro
perly or othcrwifc.
Mr. Brooks saw no reason why the com
mittee ftidtild rift. The gentlemar.from Vir
ginia said the fpbjeft was important; if io, it
ouglit now to be decided upon.
Mr, Nicholas thougMt what he had said
have fatisfied the gentleman from New
Jersey, as to his intentions. As he did not
bring forward the motion, he could not be
justly charged with any dellgn in the bufir
ness. It mull be evident to every one that
tha gentletiisn himlelfconnected this question
with a decifion. He wiflied it was not so
Connected. He thought the regulation pro
• poled abfo'utcly neceifary, in order to secure
a jull a.i i'ia r report of their proceedings. He
(hould have no obje£tion to rake up tlie bufi
r.cls to-morrow ; but if the queltion for the
committee to rif» was losl I ,' he thould then
make'fonie obfervarioni up«n the fubjeit. «
Mr. M'DoweLl hoped the commitree
woivld'nfe. It was of importance that tfie
debate:, ihould be taken accurately and fully,
apd he wirtied it to be ascertained whether a
member had a right to introduce a person on
the floor of the House, or whether the Spea
ker only could do it.
Mr. Harper wasin favour of the commit
tee's riling not because he thought the ques
tion important, but because he thought it un
important; and if the committee rose he (hould
move to postpone the further consideration of
it to a d.(Lilit day ; for however unimportant
be thought it, he perceived other gentlemen
thought differently, and he fuppolcd intend
.ed to introduce a long debate upon it, and
this he wiihed to avoid, in order to proceed
with the business of the public.
The question for riling was put and carried,
♦4 to 36.
The committee rose accordingly, and on
leave being alked for the committee to fit a
gain,
Mr. Ha*P£* hoped leave would not be
granted, as he wiihed a-poftponement of the
ronlidcration to take place.
Mr. Otis hoped leave would not be given
to fit again upon this business. He did not
know that any inconveniencies had been point
ed out as arising from the prcfent mode of ma
naging the business. All thole who wished
to coiiieon to the Boor of the Hi »e to take
the debates, had been permitted,*«-xcept in
some fpccial cases. If this was the general
practice, where could be the nccetfity for this
rule I it any particular cafe of complair.tex
ii'.cd, they ought to conlidcr it by itfelf, and
not adopt a general rule which might never
again apply. ordpr h> provide for it. There
was r.o way ofavi, ding perf'onality in thisbu
-1 l-nefs. It would always be a quetlion between
tiie individual who had been rejected and the
Knulif. Kor if the House adopted a gencr»!
rule, and persons admitted behaved air.ifs, it
•vould Hi'l be a queltion whether the Speaker
l'.id not the power to crder them away. This
»i ::yiUjr..tionj therefore, would produce 110
e.Teft. exc«pt gentlemen wished to bring «P
cv.ry fubjed wh ch could irritate the minds
~f members, .and thereby prevent the public
bun«ef» from being done. _ I
Mr. NiCHOt-AS belusved it was
impoflible fur the gentleman trom Malta
cl hi felts to make a fjcech without lomein 1- ,
nuatiuns as to the motives ot others. It it n
-ver been polfible for him to have d»ne so, nc .
mi lit have done it on tlte preient occalion,
when it had been wished to defer the conltde-
P ration, in order to avoid irritation. He would
" tell the gentleman what he wished to be doUe.
s It was not to ascertain whether the Speaker
g had done his duty heretofore, but whether the
" power of discharging short-hand writers from
3 the House should be veiled in the Speaker.—
' Willi refiiect to the reports which were given
L of thert debates, he supposed gentlemen were
not ajways fatisfied with them, but they we t e
nevcAtelefs Valuable information to the pub
lic ; and"if it wasMinportaht that this informa
tjon iholild he publifhcd, it was to bs consi
dered ifciictjier the persons who attended the
House to take notes should depeiiil- upon the
w ill of the' Speaker, or upon a majority of the
House forthe privilege. [l he splaki r did
not think this difc'u(lton proper whilst he was
in the chair.] Mr. N. said lie did not wish to
enter into ihe difculTion. It it was the delire
of the gentleman from a. Carolina to poll pone
the consideration for a few weeks, he (hould
agree to it; but he hoped the bulmefs would
noNbe g<;t rid of without dilcullion in a com
mittee of the whole, when the Speaker, who
felt himfelf interelled in it, might have an
opportunity of speaking' to the question.
Mr. Rutlklicsk said, ii any thing had
taken place which, in the opinion of the gen
tleman from Virginia, made it nece'iary to
att upon the 6uiinefs of Stenographers, it
would be welf for him to lay a resolution Up
on the table upon which the house might aet.
If there were nothing which made it necefla
ry, it would be uowife to act upon it. Ihe
gentleman spoke. aj it there was no Stenogra
pher in the house. . When the people law
this, they would naturaliy ask, to whom then
are wc indebted forthe debates which we
daily read ? Why, said Mr. R. is this fub
jed introduced I It was generally believed
that this re io 111 lion had reference to a particu
lar act, which octiireria few days previous to
its being brought forward. But the mover
declares he had not that transaction in view.
If tJ>fewaSlh«cafe> if there was no complaint
against the arbitrary conduct of tlie Speaker,
and every day's debate appears faithfully Ex
ported in the papers, what necellity was there,
he asked, for this provilion ? if the gentle
man from Virginia milled a lavorde Stenogra
pher, and wiihed to fee him remttaied, it ;
would be well to bring forward a resolution j
to that effett. But, (aid he, whilst I fee a
Stenographer taking down the words I am I
now speaking, and when I find our proceed- >
ings regularly laid before the public, 1 can '<
fee 110 necellity for any general regulation 011
the (übjeel. But it was said, that it was ne
cellary to be determined whether the Speaker 1
should have the power of driving Stenogra
phers from the house. If there be any cir- '
citmftance which renders this determination
neceUary, let it be brought forward, then j
the house would know upon what ground they
acted. If tins was a true late of the cafe, lie <
thought -it would be highly improper to go
into a consideration of this fubjett at all, asit 1
would be giving a fanftion to the proceedings 1
of this house, which would be very inconve
rtrent and improper. And if the mover (whose
property it was) had 110 objefction to let the
motion lie, why should his colleague wish it
to be considered.
Mr. Nicholas said, he had no right to
expect the genileman from South-Carolina
would" liffen to what he (aid ; if he had, how
ever, he might trave ms remarks. He
had ifcited it was not his delire to enquire into
a particular cafe ; yet that cafe had made it
necetlary to have anew rule. It was not in
tended to enquire into the conduit of the
officer of the house ; but to provide forthe
future. Mr. N. thought the gentleman from
South-Carolina understood the business of 1
the house better, than to fay the resolution
was the property of any one ; it was the pro
perly of the house. With refpetl to the ef
fect it would have, if agreed to, he was much
mistaken. It could not be supposed to fane- j
tion the debate of any man. The resolution ;
was patTed, before it was known who w.ould '
| come to take the debates: it could not, there- 1
fore, sanction any publication of debates.-r
- was sensible, from the nature of the busi
ness, that there mud be inaccuracies in reports
of their proceedings ; but they were never
, thelefs valuable to the public and the house
ought to render the reporters as indepen
~ dent and eligible as they could be. It was a
business which was attended with gt'eat labour
j and fatigue, and required talents of a peculiar
kind. He wished them therefore to be placed
upon the bell footing upon which they could
be pur, and every encouragement given to
them, short of pledging the lioufe for the ac-
curacy of theirreports.
Mr. MACoto was in hopes thatas thisquef
tion jlad not bfen debated in the coninmtee of
e the whole, it would not have been debated in
thehoufe. If it was tiie intention of the house
to give leave to the committee to fit again, it
* would be bed to make the business the order
for some, distant day.
Mr. SgwALL laid, the gentleman from
Virginia argued as if there tfas no rule exiftin"
on this subject. The Speaker had every
power for preserving the order of the house,
_ which was not expreisly provided for by rule,
j and could, ofcourlc, give leave to any per
)f son whom he thought proper to attend on the
l( floor tip take down the debates ; but it was
n now wiihed that every person who calls him
fc'f a Stenugrapher should be admitted, with
j out refpeit to decency of character or appear
j ance ; and if any perf on of this sacred charac
ter .should attend whom the Speaker thtnks
j improper, a question mull be taken, before
' he can be discharged. So that a Stenogra
n f her was to have an advantage over every
l other citizen, and to be independent ot the
Speaker—they were to be exalted even above
e the members themselves ; for members were
le subject to the order of the Speaker. If - a t
preient any Stenographer thought himfelf
n injured by beingdenied the right which others
>f enjoyed lie migtn petition the lioufe for re
t- , els ' he ha(l been improperly treated,
I- cV V ? U r f g3ln hls ,:tl| ation in the lace of the
d flf e !i ; admitted, under
, e the good will of the Speaker to come upo\
n hr? 2! e ■ ' vvhilft ,he y conducted
il th. nifeites properly, he thought they had
is pnvilege wnich they could delire, he
" ? no provilion would be made
J leave ,0 fit n aiaim n "* Co,nmitt " be refufed
e ~**/' LLA TIN observed that the report of
the select committee went to reject the rule
n | ,r , Q t' 0 , fa "S *° «>n.it persons who attended to
c Z < W ' thln a Place w^.h
»' .. . oll:^e » 's not open to every bodv
1 he uIV' ;,r *'K hC ( n l Ver ""derltood w fat wa,
r MJlerie* subject. He knew that tie
> K r flr ! :,ge,S ' a " d he "nrl
U the gallery from'^
i ttndei flood tliat, every individual in the galk
! ries as well as 'he members ot the Houie
| were under the infpect.oniof the
far as relates to decency and
' duct- not only to call member, to older, but to
Set any dWbrd,r in or to turn
,aw person out of them. But there had been
;t din uction atlumed which he did not under
i ftaiid, viz . that out of
our the bar ot the House, is a place m which
(tranters uuy come, and may not come- ,
tuiderflood that a member or the Speake
miiiht introduce any person there. But I
wilbed to have this matter afcertamed ; and
to know whether, any Itranger may be admit
ted, how, and how excluded. He did not
with to reflriCt the authority of the Speaker
within the fe walls; but he did not fee the
iropriptv of turning out any person that was
not debarred, admiflion by the rules of tne
Haute, He knew that the Speaker had a right
to tufcn out any person who in.l'Dthdved W»n
feif ; but'if he were to have rhe powerot ex
ciudiiigtotHc'rs, he wished it to be ascertained
by rule ; !or it iie'hinifclf were to introduce a
gentleman on .his floor, and the Speaker was,
torfome turn hiin out, he should
not feel [The Speaker thought
these observations improper winllt he was in
the chair.] Mr.'G. laid he did not allude to
any particular person, or to any particular
Speaker. He (poke generally, flnd wished to
ascertain whether it vvas not better to provide
by a rule whether certain powers were in the
Speaker, or in the House ; and he was going
! to fay, that this was a question which might
be fettled without irritation. And it was
because the Speaker tf-as in the chair, that he
took a cafe which could not exist. He thought
it belt to take up the subjeCt on a general
ground, and to fix these regulations by rule,
rather than leave them as they now are. If
It was thought proper to vest this power in the
Speaker, let it be so ; or if any provition was
niade in favour of nole-takers, which, of
course, would be for the interellof members,
as it gave them a better opportunity of hear
ing and taking dpVn the debates, they ought
to dt> so. He said, he avoided taking any no
tice of the resolution with respect to debate
taker.i, as the question was 011 leave being
given to the committee to fit again. Mr.
G. laid, before he fat down, lie would notice
oneobfervation which he thought very extra
ordinary. -j(t was, that the people generally
believed the Clerk of the House reponejf-rfrc
debate's, and'that it vvas done under the sanc
tion of the House, He himfelf lived in a ve
ry remote part of the union, where the people
had not access t» such ample information as
in other parts, but he never heard such an o
pinion uttered. The people at large pretty
w ell understood that the debates are taken by
persons who attended, for their own use,
whicji w ere correCt, orotherwile, in proporti
on as 1 speaker is perfpicaous or not, or ac
cording as they hear and mjderftand, 01" as
they pofTefs the ability Jo Inake the report.
He hoped the committee would have leave to
fit again, and that the question would be de
bated 011 a future day, when he trusted it
would be difcufied on general ground.
Mr. Gtis. It appeared to him that the 1
gentltman from Pennsylvania had afligned
reasons why some general rule ought to be
eftabliihed with respeCt to the admission of
ftrangets; but he saw nothing of that kind
contemplated by the resolution, therefore it
could rot embrace the objedts he had in view.
It was-anfined to (lenographers merely, with
rqfpeCt to whom he saw no neceflity for mak
ing anyrule. Ttffy attended when they pleas
ed in the House ; if any had been injured
from adenial of this privilege, and that inju
ry was (hewn to the House, it be good
ground for making a rule upon the fubjget.—
With respect to .SYiiathad fallen from the p-fn
tTemau from Virginia JS to rnsTTaDit ot uling
irritating expredions ; he believed it would be
the beftvvay of preventing irritation to take
no notice of them. He would only fay, that
he belie/ed the gentleman's own irritability
gave rife to the remark, and not any thing lie
had said.
Mr. Dawson observed, the arguments of
gentlemen shewed the propriety of the com
mittee's having leave to fit again. He should
not, at present, reply to had been said,
because he thought the debate on this subjeCt
ought to take place in a committee of the
whole. He would agree with the gentleman
from S, Carolina to take up the subjeCt about
the the middle of April. If this was declin
ed, gentlemen would force them into a discus
sion at present.
Mr. Lyon hoped the committee would
have leave to fit again, and that the farther
conlideration would not be deferred to the
time mentioned. He thought it of great im
portance that the proceedings of the Honf'e
(hould be faithfully reported. When he firft
took his feat in the House, there were fix per
sons attended to take down notes ; now, he
said, there is only one—and if he should be
taken sick, or stay away from any cause, the
public would be unacquainted wilh the pro
ceedings of the House.
Mr. Bayard observed that the gentleman
from Pennfylvsnta had told the House a num
ber of things he did not know ; amongst these
was the ground upon which the Speaker had a
right to turn out strangers from the lobby of
the House. Mr. B. was surprized that gen
tleman w ho knew so much, should be ignorant
of this. There was fcavcely a member in the
House, he had thought, who did not know
that the House was divided into different
parts ; one of which wa§ for the members,
and another Tor strangers. The part attuned
to members was the floor and the lobby ;°and
the galleries for those who chose to attend
their proceedings. With respeCt to the lob
by, the Speaker, as the general coiifervator
CI peace and order in the House, had the fame
charge over it, as over other parts of the
House. If any person, who is not a member '
were to take a member's feat, the Speaker
would undoubtedly turn him out, and he had
the fame right to order any person out of the
lobby. But the gentleman said there was no
ru.e upon the fubjeCt. Nor could there be
any ; for though .gentlemen sometimes intro
duced their friends into the lobby of the
House, which vvas a thing of courtesy, thev
certainly had no right to do so.
With refpea to the general principle, whe
ther this power belonged to ths Speaker or
not, lie vvas aftomlhcd that this should have
beende.ubtcd, as U fubordinate
to otners placed m that olficer; and he could
witho - ,lt reference,
to artotfter circumffance. Was he not an offi.
cer ot great cortfequence both as to hu inte
he £££ ,lU f l,i^ nCe ? Was power
ne po(Te(Tes, of calling any member to order •
of appointing all committees, See. of a far
igher magnitude ? And when he iiad these 1
powers, could it be doubted that he had the
Perf ° nS Trom the 'obby
inflate°! Renting his being.re
initate.t Belides, let the word use of this
power be supposed. Suppose the Speaker to
ori° r :^' fU 0t P '° t ricr y duty, a" !o
r l the lloufe without
uicient caule. Every order which the
ont t i Uld P rovi<J ed the person so turned
• > •».{ a:«s by 'petition to the Houfe/uiJie
could be no doubt but
r i fKp perfonwduluf*>c ic-inuAj •■
If Se ml"trowed were adopted, a majority
of the House could do no more than theymm g
a/s There was, however, too much rea
SSftißfflßfc-*-
anrlv to a particular ease ; as, W*rfer, ne
VR^TSsSBr-r*
gentlemen had said, they d,d not k»°>
Steno"raphers were introduced into this liotiie
It was not lon< r Cnce the house was engaged
IiKSSSf" otouui of m mffZZ
from a HoajraftoßO" V'TIL ,M.Tcr
uffttee re ported in favour ot
fon;ui officer of Ihe !,,.fe to take the debates
but a majority of tt#' noufe determined it wa.
better to W* ths btitfhifs hand upon its ci
footing, without tife fanCiio* ot the ' fo^.^ c
thought therefore jjjeotlemeii cotiid "V ?e ig
norant on this fubjecl. Mr. W . said he mould
notice an expreflian of the member frc-i v er
nion', who said that he did not with the bull- i
ness to be postponed to a distant day, bccanla j
it was proper the public fltould know vvhati s
dc.ie in this house. Did not that gent.eman
know that the proceedings of every day were
regularly published i And will any gen
tleman (ay they are partially given? tie
believed n&t; he heard no complaint liom
either lide of the house. He believed the bu
siness was asarcurate'y done, as the nature of it
would admit of j and when there were half a
dozen note--takrrs ; he had observed, and it
that member had read, he would have observ
ed, that the mod of them copied the debates
"written by the ftenograpl« now before hint.
He thought, therefore, there was no neceflity
for any change in the business. He wished tor
publiqity poffiblc, and that the
people might not Only know what they said,
but also what they did.
Mr. Gallatin replied to theobfervations
of Mr. Bayard, by (fating, that he was ac
quainted with the rules of the house ?.s they
had been agreed to and were before them,but
ignorant of.ar.y other rule which w as not con
tained there. He wished all their rules to be
explicit.
Mr. Gordon hoped the committee would
nothave leave to fitagain. He had heard no rea
f&ttftovine** hi in ■ -
tsbe difchargedOoi* a farther confiderationof
the fubjeCt. All the arguments which had
been otferedwent to the general ground of ad
mitting Grangers on the floor of the house,
whereas the refofution before the house was
confined to He wished no re
gulation on thi's fubjeft. The gentleman front
Pennsylvania had said that if he were to bring
a gentleman within the walls and he were to
be turned out, he should be very much hurt ;
he would venture to fay, that if he introduced
none but gentlemen, he would never have his
feelings thus hurt.
Mr. Hartley hoped the committee of the
whole would not be discharged, but have
leave to (it again at a future day. The Speak
er, he remarked, was in a vfry aukward situ
ation in the difcuflion ; he wished him to be
at liberty to answer any insinuation Which
might be made against his conduCt.
The Speaker thought it his duty to fay,
that he had heard no personal insinuations to
vva ds himfelfif he had, he should not ask
the house to go intoa committee of thewhole
to get clear of them.
Mr. Lyon denied having infinpated the de
bates were at present improperly reported ;
he thought the business well done. All he
had said was, that there were formerly fix re
porters, and now ojily one ; and he wished the
■ 't&Sjlj'tiv' l f '' %/tffnijted, left rbstnnr should -
away—by The lame power which
had sent off the others.
The Speaker said the remark of themem
ber from Vermont was very improper and
indecent.
The question for leave to fit again was ne
gatived 46 to 40.
Mr. N. Smith proposed to postpone the
farther confederation of this fubjeCl to the 4th
of March next. v
Mr. Harper wasoppofed to this motion ;
it was not to give the go-by to this
question. He had no desire to avoid it. He
was fatisfied that whenever the business was
gone into, the report of the feledt committee
would be agreed to. He ,hoped, therefore,
the third Monday in April would be prefer
red.
Mr. Brooks would have no objeftion to
discuss this business, if it had not already been
difculfed. He was in favour of the 4th of
March, as he perceived the gentleman from
Pennsylvania wished to introduce several other
regulations into the difcuflion, as to the ad
mission of (hungers, See.
Mr. Nicholas said, he had avoided as
much as poflible entering into this Ulifcufiion
at present. He had averted the necefiil;y of a
.rule of thy kind, .in order to set the note
takers upon a more respectable footing than
at present.
Mr. Gallatin made fomc' remarks against
the poftpontmerit.
Mr. RuTLEDGEfaid that he had supposed
that it was perfectly well understood that (hort
hand writex%were admitted 011 the floor thro'
the Speaker's indulgence, becatife it was a
privilege not granted to the reft of our fellow -
citizens, who were admitted into the galleries
and lobby only, and that as by the rules he
had authority to order any firanger to be turn
ed out for disorderly conduct, or both galleries
and lobbies to be cleared entirely in cafe of
more genera] disorder, or where he could not
distinguish and (ingle out the unruly indivi
dual, so he had believed that no one doubted
his authority r revoke the indulgence thus
, granted to stenographers.
He requested however that the Speaker, al
though in the,chair, would do the doubting
gentleman from Pennsylvania the favour to
liate 1111 what manner this business had been
conducted, in order to diTpel the doubts of
t at member, orot any other who entertained
them ; a.though Mr. Rutledge declared that
he tor himfelf had none,'and-was fatisfied.
1 he Speaker rofetrom the chair, and said
that he felt very much disposed to gratify the
gentleman from South-Carolina in any request
he might think proper to make, but that in •
this instance it would be tifelefs, because he
* : ' 3 !£ e t ® lat t,le member from Pennsylvania
(Me.-Gallatin )'fhftanding lißf hrfeCtation
ot ignoranti, knew perfectly vvlel, through
ami under w hat restriCtions,
ttiort-hand writers. Were admitted uit the floor
or the house, and 011 what footing they flood
I 1 r r e '..- 1 ! 1e s P eake raddefl, that as he had
i " ,m 'clf told this, long since, to that vc.iy
1 '^ vas c °<*«Suently too certain that
he did not seriously entertain the doubts he had
I exprefred, but that they were suggested rather
"it 1 a design to catch file popular ear, than
with any expectation or willi that tliey should
be duelled.
Mr. Gallatin said, he understood fiiat it
was undei the courtesy of the Speaker that
persons were admitted on tl-.c floor of the
on.e to take the debates, and ail his obfer-
wena to (he* that the bulinefe would
e better placed on a di(.itient footing. If
tills WAS fuoakriifr f. „ .
.. hid Co fpok'eV Ty'ith i" J r ear, he
y cafe plluded >o, h e Wc | i/ r :,e 'pec il
t
- -once oefore duriq. tUj«ercifed
0 fore that time, he did J£ ft,>n j J uu, be
e the powerof dirchar»i nir ' * now that he had
e th 9 hour*- and te h ad fa A" en °g'-aphe r f ron)
s it was improper th at he ■honM V " Ce tho «Sht
e Mr. N. Smith ivade h e lf '
-he thought the queftiou i^u° tlon ' ber "'fc
difcutfed, and becaufche ill < i n '«ffieientl\
e a buiinefc to eng-aye tli* ? ' to ° 'riflint"
vat this time. S **9oonof the hou&
. The question for the poft oor ,p_
dby yeas and nays(astta lc d in^" I*' 1 *'* 5 taker
n when there appeared 44forit j s pa>'er)
- and the Speaker being intend j* +lgainfl: *'
- fion did not vote ; the uueit ln , ' le <*eci
not carried. ne was.therefor,
,s A motion was then mitfc tn„U'
d was lott, tUerebeing only » of fe * hict
e Mr., IiARTLEi- moved V«
. question till thefua MomUy Z VtiT* J, h .'
d was also negatived 46(0 354. —\ *
Theqiieltion was then taken on a^rc'
- the report of the feleil committee °6 ■*£**
a j to tfes reloluuon, which was agreed to <0
sj 36. ■* tf *
n
e Thurspay, March 22.
- The following engroiled bills were read th,-
e third time and patted* viz.
1 The biil for continning in force part ot
- art therein mentioned (»the title of this bil
it was amended, by adding the title of the ac
a the part of which is hereby continued, Viz
1 the ad making further prorifioa for fee irmr
- and collecting duties bn Foreign dittiljed in,
s rits, Wines, and Teas j)
The bill to alter the time of entering ftjl],
y and for other purposes ;
r The bill to continue in force the fifth fecti
e on of the act efiabliffiing Poll-Offices and Pol'
\ Roads ; and
The bill to revive and continue in force th
s aft regulating the compenfution of clerks, an
for other purposes.
Y The Speaker 1, id before the house th
t Treasurer ot the United'Stat*> account 0
- receipts and expenditures in the Irealur
- Department for the quarter endingonthe 301.
of December la(t, which were ordered to b
' printed.
He also prelented a letter from Wiiliar
r ' i-nt.nf *'l"'V;-,T)-?ni
1 ment, Hating that the duties ck nis dlficc ar,
1 very materially increased, and deiiraig an in
- create of compensation. Referred (o tlie com
> mittee of unfinifiied business.
s Mr. Baldwin, from the committee t
- whom was referred the bill from the Senat
1 for accommodating a feltlement of limits with
5 the Itateot Georgia, and forereftirgagovern
3 ment in the Millillippi Territory, reportei'
> the bill without any amendment, with fom«
1 additional information. Committed tea com
s inittee of the whole for to-morrow.
The house, on motion of Mr. Harper,
e went into a committee of the whole on th
- bill making an appropriation for a balanc
- found due to the representatives of Willian,
- Carmichael ; which, being agreed to, wa
6 ordered to be engrofled for „ third reading.
1 Mr. Cochran presented a petition troir
the inhabitants of the western part of th<
> state of New-York, praying for an alteratioi.
- in the port roads in that quarter, which war
c referred to the committee on thi6fubje&.
2 Mr. D. Foster, trom the committee 0
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
- petitiop of James Perry, by Miles Sherbrook,
i for compensation for property taken from hiw
: during the war, which was committed for to
■ morrow.'
: A melfsge was Teceived from the Senate,
i— JJ ■1" 1 r ■ ■ •" 1 y 1
1 bill declaring the atTent of to an ac
of the (tate of Maryland, appointing an heaith
■ officer, with an amendment.
a On motion of Mr. D.Foster, thel Houft
went into a committee of the whole on unfa.
- vourable reports of the committee of claims,
on the petition of George P. Frolt and others,
" and 011 the petitions of Augu/tine Biddle, and
I other?, both of which were agreed to, and
afterwards concurred in by the House.
j Another message was received trom the
s Senate, informing the House that they had
e passed a biil to enable the President of the
s United States to purchase, or take on lease,
e one or more Foundries,, for which 100,006
> dollars arp proposed to be appropriated. Re
" ferred to the Committee for the protection ai
commerce and the defence of the country.
0 Adjourned.
II ....... . 11'1 11
GINSENG,
r SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CKESNUT STREET.
,s Wants to purchase good Ginseng,
11 gathered iu season, and clear of damage—
a for which a generous price will be given if
delivered anytime before the 15th of April.
n nMrok ' lot
notice! -
J npHREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferrti
X. Debt of the United States ot the following
, liefcription, viz —No. 10033, 10034, and i0035>
for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May, i79Ti^
' l on the books of the Treasury of li>( *
' ted States, ir. the nime of Benjamin
* 3 of Lanover Houfe,near vsrgaveniw/' 11 , *
ie Esq. have been loft by the Capturf ot the flnp
chus, from hence to- London, i" J une ' a "-
therefore Hotifies those who;i it mi)r cencern, tiiat
J ' apj-lipation will be mad. at the 1 reafary ote
3t nited States for a renewal of the fame.
' d VFadding!on Iff Harwood.
ls march ix -----
Twenty Dollars Reward.
„ ' T""HE Store occupied on account of the Unite
f i States, back ef No. 71, North ter ;?L '
was on the night of the 19th tti.tant ( 5 J arc ') ' ,
ken open, and the followingarticles Iloicn,
I taken therefrom :
it Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2374 30 \ yds. 1 Blue ftrou ,3 single
g 237S 20 i [■ cor d.
[t 2 379 20 j
2380 zo\ 1 ~
2381 2®i
« S 8» 20 I>9COr J.
2383 20 +
1 2384 20 |
I The a love reward is oflied, for the
1 of the pj'-pcfratorfe of th;s rohbcry,
be apprvhended, and made anicnaW 4 to 1 >
\ further reward will be paid, for th« ,
any part of the goods stolen, # u deluery
fame t® .
JOHN HARRIS-
Keeper Milit»<7
a , 1*
march 21. . ......
" TO RENT,
e A "ood three story H°u->
° ,0 '.l. 1 C)U»«» ltnV
TWO rooms on each floor, with* irt
d Kitchen—ln l'ront, Oesr Soath-HreC"- ' . _
:f of the Fruiter. iaarc.l '.- • -
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
FRIDAY DiCSMBBR 22.
The question being put for the third read
ing of the bill for raffing three millions from
the Bank upon Exchequer bills,
Mr. Tieriuy said, it was impo(ftbl c for
him to afTent to that bill without faying a
few words. It appeared to he a measure
quite incontinent with the proftfiions of the
Chancellor of the Excheqner upon occasions
for which he had coufiderablt credit at the
time |ie .made them, and which he would
contmu® to have if he adheted to his prefef
lioawec 4he substance of which was, that
tbWe should never be issued any exchequer
bills for whicb there was not made an ade
quate parliamentary provision. It wa3 ne
. ceffary to adhere to this prinuiple at all
times, but more particularly so at the pre
sent time, when the right honorable gentle
man was calling upon the public to contri-
J bute so large a sum to defray expences, and
to raise it within the year. The miiiifttr
had Hated the sum to be provided this year
to be 25 millions; twelve millions of which
he ropofed to be raised by a loan, of which
we as yet heard nothing but the amount ,
eight millions he prop,fed to be raised by
the additional afleffmerit upon t«xes ; three
millions and a half upon land and malt, and
three millions upon exchequer bills, the bill
for raising which sum was now before the
house. How this la ft sum of money was
to be provided for, did not appear. The
minister had said that we mult look our
difficulties in the face. He granted that we
should do so. But this did not appear to
him to be the way of doing it ; for by this
bill, in Read of meeting, it was postponing
our difficulty to the amount of three millions
and that two in a way perfeftly new. It
■was possible that there fbonld be- trovv out-"
•fianding four milKons upon exchequer bills.
But how these millions now to be voted by
this biil were to be provided for, no man
had heird a word. No provifiou was made
for the iflue of frefh' exchequer bills, when
tbefe should become payable, which will be
on tb? 4th of April next. Should the min
ister ifiue exchequer bills for three millions
wiore to answer for when thjy become due,
there would then be fix millions unprovided
for. Considering the discount upon exche
quer bills, he would ask, whether the min
ister thought i: prudent to issue them again,
after these became payable, foppofing the
bank to have no obje&ion, and foppofing
neither to be provided for by Parliament ?
He was sure that this mode of proceeding
was entirely different from that for which,
two years ago, the Chancellor of the ex
chequer took a great deal of credit, that of
providing for exchequer bills in a manner
that had not been done before. But he
seemed now to abandon his plan ; and the
manner in which the Bank acquiesced in
the plans of the minister was, in his opinion,
alarming to those whowifhed-well tn the cre
dit of thit .(MBrfc They ae^ommoasteT
the Chancellor ofthe exchequer in a way that
wfts not highly creditable to either party.
They stated -heir ciicumdancesto be flour
ifhing, but that, with a view to public fi
nancial operations, they ftetned to invite a
continuance of the reflriclion upon them
aS to the payments of their debts in fpetie.
What would be said of a private man who
would thus league himfelf with the exec
utive government, and for that rcafon re
fiife to pay his debts, was a question which,
he apprehended, wa? not difficult to an
swer. The bank and the chancellor of the
exchequer agreed with one another that the
TeftriStion should eoutfnue, as to the ifTuing
cf cafli by the bank. They agree further
to, advance to him three millions tipnn ex
chequer tills, for which at present no par
liamentary provision is made. At the end
of fix months the chancellor of the exche
quer is called upon to make good the pay
ments of tbefe exchequer bills. Supposing
then, that provision should be made for the
payment of three millions upon frefh exche
quer bills at three months, the question then
would be, whether we are likely, in the
month of April next, to be in a more pros
perous (late than we are at present, and
that money will be more plenty ? Then
there would be no objeftion to any
thing but the expence of this measure.
Bat those who thought there was
danger in opr present situation, could
hardly approve of the present measure ; be
cause, if the hour of difficulty should arise,
and neither the dire&ors of the bank fhoiild
be disposed to grant any further money up
on exchequer bills, nor the proprietors agree
to it if they did, then indeed shall we fee
the mifchief of voting away money thus up
on credit without making provision for
the payment of it. Although he differed
from the minister on the fubjeft of raising
money within the year, he did not differ
from him as to the necessity of our looking
our difficulty in the face, and providing
for it ; but Ire did not think it confident
with that idea to peftpone that difficulty by
a measure, the pretense for which was to
provide for it. He thought he should be
prepared for a storm, but he should be pre
pared forit like prudent and fkilful manures
so as to be ready to meet it, not to talk of
a storm artcffendutl ourselves as if nothing
was to be apprehended but a calm, apd to j
postpone the preparation to tbe hour of tcm- '
pell, which appeared to him to be the cafe
as far as the present bill extended. He
eould e*large on these topics, but he had
r'pafotis for forbearing.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said,
he was very glad to notice that the honor
able gentleman had, on this day, more dif
tindlly than he had heard him before, ac
knowledge that we ought to meet our diffi
culties in th* face. He fbould rejoice if that
declaration of the honorable gentleman was
likely to be followed up by a plan that would
contribute to the ientiment which it convey*
.
reafonswrhy lie thought tint the present plan
was not confident with that object ; an J if
■ie did so, aad the appeared conclu- j
Uve, he (hould be as ready to abandon i* as
he noped the hon. gentlemen would to a- j
b in don his opinions if ht found them incon
j. Hkent with the general objedt, namely, that
m °' meeting our d ffleulties in the face. He
neither wished to be himfelf mifundeTftood
I}r nor to nufundsrftand the-honorable gentle
a man. The bill now before the house wis
not mconfi.lent with the plan for the j
1e mentation of the afTefTcd taxes. He d?d
n8 »ot mean to raise the whole of the supplies \
;le of the present year within the year. laleedi
Id P ro f°fed olherwife when iie wpened the
, { outline of the wh.ijc.plan. He stated the
at measure now before the Cmufe as part of the
er original proportion. With regard to the
e _ rellridlion upon the bank, it had been alrea
e. dy decided by the house that it was necclTi
,]] ry during the contiiiujnie of the war.-r
- There was iro hope that fuck necessity would
e . cease but with the war. Here the bank,
without inconvenience to themselves or tlie
id Public, but with advantage to both, can
tr make this advance, and can prolong it : and
a _ here was a provision for the payment at a
•h cert3ln pertod, in order th.it if necessary,
:h 'key m 'gbt open their ulual operation of
. payment, if it should be thought wife to o
}y pen. While the present ciregmft ances rs
ee main,the ieftri£iion should continue.
i( j If it thould be necelfary that the bankfhould
continue it# advances, they would of course
; u . continue, bat by, u very bilf imw before
as house, was made for the pay
nr.rnt from time to time as such advances
ur (hould be made. Their continuance, or dif
ve continuance of advances wouH depend up
tQ On their circumlhnces and although they
• s are at prefers in a flourifhing situation, yet
they should not be called upon to make jid
ns vancts u P on exchequer bills but to a limited
j t amount, such as was fpecified by the present
t _ hill. With tusgnrd. to.th--.' difcouut uu ex--
[. chequer bills, he knew of none.
,' Mr- Tierney said, he understood the dif
in COQn t upon exchequer bills to be at present
onc afi d a half per cent. He had heard no
thiDg against wkat he had said already, that
this was matter of accommodation from the
n _ batik to the chancellor of the Exchequer,
n6 and that it was likely to be mischievous to
e the public. Wi»h regard to the pledge
which he wa< fuppn ed to have entered into
e _ by the chanctllor of the exchequer, he
n _ cculd only fay, that he had said uotSingex
cept.that we ought not to poltpone our dif-
Acuities. He wanted to know where tl.eie
three milhoi s could be raised again if the
j bank {hould find any difficulty.
Mr. Nichols did not fee how thte bill
was to be provided for except in the ifluing
| of bank notes". There bad formerly, been a
limit to the issue of bank paper. Now there
was none. This measure was calculated to
make the bank a mint for the coinage of
paper money. This was worse than the
j n mode that was adopted in Fiance, for there
they had a limit, here we have none. Should
' they be unable to pay again, what wa* to
-j fe» tViis frwedv ? hiili tti be
the mod dangerous,meafure that was ever
tried in any country.
The bill was then read a third time and
|T" pafied.
a '
m By yesterday's Mail.
10 NEW-VORK, March 20.
c ~ ExtraH of a letter, dated Cayenne, February
e - 11, 1798.
My dear Sir,
n * My heart is grievously afflifted. I
lc have just seen one of the urrfortiinate depu
ties transported from France. This was
'S one of my moil precious cares in landing.
Jr I cannot give you a better knowledge of
s " .heir situation, than by following his own
r " narrative, with the fame freedom as he
'd communicated it to me. It will lam sure i
e " call forth a flood of tears. It has made an j
f" imprefiion on my mind, which I can nevtr j
S forget.
Ie <« You know, said he, the manner in
e " which we were conveyed through France
n in carriages barred witb iron, deeping fome
lc times in prison» f and sometimes in dun
s- gcons. Our voyage was like our journey,
d crouded some against, others beneath the
'* deck, which was guarded night and day,
y by two soldiers with drawn sabres ; we were
fed like sailors, with fait meat, white beans
ls and biscuit, but so damaged that it is in
d conceivable how it could nourish even the
sailors. We all supported tolerably well,
'> this honible voyage, during which, we
3 were constantly treated as criminals—The
" 'orders were that we should speak to none of
e the crew.
e After 53 days failing we arrived at this
- place. We were ordered to go down to
r the hospital, where we have been well treat
i ed as to provisions. But we have been con
? ftantly under a military guard ; without
r the liberty of walking out, except atl hour
? in the morning and another in the evening
? in a meadow, which is without the walls of
1 the hospital, and without pcrmiffioti to be
f visited.
' We entertained hopes that when arrived
e at the place of our destination, we should
" have enjoyed our personal freedom. But
! we have beta disappointed.
' In about 15 day* we were transported by
I water to Sinamary, a village situated about
> I 25 leagues from Cayenne, a wretched place,
• ' unhealthy, difHtote of every convenience.
: We are here lodged in the house of the for
■ mer clergyman, containing five small rooms,
' in vvliich we are distributed. We are fur
: rounded by snakes, huge serpents fcorpi
, ons and with a thoufafid other venomous
beasts, large and fnsall, with which this
country is overrun. Tigers are our near 1
neighbors. A small piece of ground is as. 1
signed to us for a walk ; but so excessive is '
the heat of the fun and the rains, and so j
numerous the infects which swarm over the
country, that our walks are rendered ex.
tremely inconvenient. We are under a mi.
i litary guaid. Tiiii village is iulnihued by
about 50 pcrf ns, all tick of a ftver. Th.tt •
I rascal Biltud Varennes Is the only 'inn 1: re »
who enjoys his health. Indrpeni;tu or the
rations which he receives ii) cm:mnn with'
us, the government fftsajto wed hloi 1800
livfes £3OO crown#! gimptliy, and the rent
of his lodging*. Further Viltor Hugues
ftom Guadeloupe, various arti
cles of fuhGlttfncc,. to the amount of 6000
, year.—[ ioco crowns.]
Ihe ration we receive of government
I contiils of half a pound of bre;td, and a
, pint and a half of bad wine each day. It
| is impolfible 13 th s place to get butchers
1 m?at. Sometimes a fowl or a duck may be
| obtained, but at an enorm">fis priot.
I 1 can give you but a Lu'nt description of
j our horrible fitnation. M. ds Mnr'nais di
ed about the last of Rrumaire. Every pne
of us is more or less indisposed Thtre is
a furgeou for this military poll—l leave you
to conjtdlure what must be the pharmacy of
a surgeon in such a place. When we are ve
ry ill, we can obtain per Vffion to be con
veyed to the hofpiul in Cayenne ; a pla<se
lef* humid and insalubrious. A vefy severe
illness has brought me hither.
We had hoped for some mitigation of our
fate from France ; buton hearing that others
were to fee traufportcd here, how cruel will
be our future lot ! We have no hope, but
to perifli by a flow and painful death in this
terrible climate, the grave of Europeans,
whatever may be said of it by fabulous writ
ers in France. What a destiny !—Gjod
God! !"
BAL riMORE, March. 20.
Extract of a letter from captain Juncker,
master of the (hip William, bound from
Balfmore for Bremen, to his owners in
this city, dated
" Bremen, 9 1. |
" Thirteen days after leaving the Capes
I made the foundings of the baolts of New
foundland ; the next day a veflel hove in
fight, which proved to be a French privateer ;
who, on coming up, ordered m* to hoist »»t
the boat and repair on board—it was then
blowing a tremendous llorm, with a high
running sea ; I replied it was utterly out of
my power, as no boat I thought, could keep
the sea—he answered me by opening his
port-hole 3 and made ready to fire. Although
my dead lights had been beaten in, my bow- j
sprit carried away, my rudder unhooked and |
the veflel had other-ways fnffered much, I
was dill obliged to comply. Two men,
the carpenter and the boatfwin, ventured
withme. Hardly had we, with much difficul
ty, reached the privateer, when the boat was
ftoved to pieces, and the carpenter unfortu
nately drowned, the boatswain was miracu
louffy saved, The captain of the privateer
then proceeded toexamine my papers, which
proving to be in the he en
deavoured, by threats, such as prtfenting
a loaded pistol to my breast, £cc. to intimi
date me, with a view of forcing me to de
clart in writing, that I was bound to Eng
land. Finding all his measures iieffectual,
he ft ruck me fevercly ; this producing no
change fn meva-rfcbTTirffrs' Views, he EicT
me goon board,and toftayby him till theaext
morning, I politivcly refufed to do this, and I
was taken on board—(hortly after I hoisted
; my failj.andluckilyefcapedoutofhisclutche*
In the North Sea I was boarded several
| timesby Englifk frigates, who, after examiu
-1 ing my papers, difmifled me politely
Valuable Stands for Bufinei's.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the foinh fide ot Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and j bird flrcets :-,cae containing
eighteen feet, and the oth?r feven'.ecn feet, more or
Iris, on the said street, and both extending, the
fame breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, mort
or less, to Carttr's aHey.
j There are, 011 Chffnut-ftreet, two tvro-flory
j BRICK HOUSES
j (Numbers 8c d 82)
Which may readily be m;de ir.to one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
three fh ry
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new which has two rooms on a floor
,and a front of eight'en feet oh said al!uy.
i his property is clear ©f groUnd-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houfcs will feparately or toge
ther
Further particulars may be known on applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, J VN. I ,
No. 80, Chefiiut-ftreet, or ac the Library. ,
march
A T LAS f. ,
This Day is Published, by William
Cobb ett,
OPPOSIT« CHRIST CHURCH,
Ihe Democratic Judge, < \
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS, 1
As exhibited, explained and expwfed, in tV« '
profecutien of * J
WILLI A M COBBETT, .
FOR A fR ETtNDED 1.18 AC AT \ST
The King of Spain and his Emlaffador, before
THOMAS iVi'KF.A.s,
Chief Juflice of the s t«te »f Pennsylvania.
By Peter Porcupine.
Molafles at Audion.
On WEnNESD \Y NKXthe 28th inft. at II o' t
do k in'he morning o; Wilcock-V -A harf,
Will be fold by Publit Au3iion,
for cash, "
Forty Hogfheatls of Molafles,
• F A GOOD QUALITY.
Feotman & Co> Au6lfoncers.
march 1% ®
N O T I C t. r
WHEREAS a Certificate to H* nn ah Shkl- I
lv, of Oxt<-t) Cottage, in the Counry of -
Surrty, in Grcar-Ijr'tain, Spinster, or her alfigm, | -
for two thoufar.d five hsndred and Gxty-tvvo dol- Ii
latj twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of -
the United Sta'es, wai loft in the !hip Peggy,
Caj't. Hyer, bound from Phitadslphia to London
in thp year 179 ft. lutfcril cr, the said Han- £
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the. Treafurv of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificata.
HANNAH SHELLY. t
Feb. 2j. i»w6w.
%\yc
PHIL AD E L .1 J, A ,
t EVENING, Mar&zi
' . 1 ■ Aft- ' ' ■' m '
3 A Correspondent can nut but express his
regret <*t the little prub»bility here exifls o
I obtaining a Turnpike to G-r-nantown, See.
after an expenc<r to she Kate in the rfpeat
t ed attempts, which collectively, it i§ l>c
s lieved would amount to a sum, that if grant
» ed for this purpose, would hive coaipieated
more than Irhlt the distance firtt contempla
f. ted. The wh<-!e distance utill not, it is fe r
. td, be done for want of money ; th s cer
= t iinly seems the opinion of a m jority of
s the House of Representatives, by their
, proviso, that in cafe the whole cannot be
f accompl.fhed.lO miles only may be done.—
. This proviso will, it is much to be feared be
. found deficient in not either allowing the
e Stockholders to keep possession of the road
- until the principal (hall have been paid off
or appropriating some fund either,by tax or
r otherwise for difchargipg so moch of the
s principal as (hall be unredeemed at the term
1 when it reverts back to the county. As the
t Bill is now before the Senate, it is hoped
9 they will injtfl on an amendment to this point
, and thereby insure the success of.l'o delirable
. an undertaking. It cannot be fuj»pofed that
3 fubferihers will for the fake of having nine
per cent, for their money for a limited time
i without a certainty of tht redemption ps
the principal be found to undertake so ar
, duous -a piece oPbufiuefs. Itis too remark
n able t(» eicape comment, that if the oppo
n fers to this fcneafure liad keen aftuated by
laudable motives, they would have brought
j forward some other plan of relief, as it can
s not be believed they are so hardy as to deny
that some thing is proper suid uece.Tary u
n be done. '
T j .
t <1 The'great Angel seen by Mahomet in his
n night journey to Heaven, with a little vari
h ation, furnifhes a most excellent type of our
f Jacobin fadlion.
p ;£ " Amonfter, endowed withfeventy thou
s Tand' heads every one of which has seventy
ii j thonfand mouths, every one of which has
- ! seventy thousand tengues, all conftantlv
J employed in reviling honesty, curing gov-
I ernment, and blaspheming God."
, A jacobin miscreant in Connefticut, is
i reviving against our Prelident, the stale ar
tifice of palming upon the public quotati
ons from other authors as Mr. Adams's.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
A member of 3 drinking company
complains bitterly in the Aurora of this
morning that Mr. Brown had withheld
from the public a number of toasts which he
hadpromifedtopnblifh—Hethinks Brown's
condud in this instance at variance with his
, motto, " The public will our guide, the
a public good our end."
\ Ferhaps Mr. BrowH, like many other per
t sons, has altered his opinion of the public
£ will and public good, and in this very refuf
jal has complied with both—The public o
g pinion is very fall changing. Many, who
1 were formerly unconcerned fpeftators of our
. dispute with France, or if you please honest
ly attached to France, are now rallying
round the standard of our own government.
Beside, I believe Mr. Brown finds that but
few of those who have formerly, considered
thcmfelrcs as the index* of the public will,
ate able now to pay for his papers—So that
I believe Mr. Brown in nrgleding to pub
s lifii the toasts has adled irt perfect conform! - ,
r ty to his motto
e And I further believe that the crisis has
c now arrived, in which, all Printers in the
United States, who are not well paid by
France, must adopt the fame measure with
Brown, or they will not be able to print
, much longer. A Cl/STOMER.
t March 23.
* Democrats.
r To the Printers of the American Daily Ad-Jtrlifer.
Gentlemen,
J I FIND in your paper of thi» morning the names
of the members who voted for and against the mo
_ tion, for postponing tffc further consideration of the
following question in the Hoiife of Reprefentati (es
of the United States, until the 4th of March next:
" That persons attending the House for the purpose
"of taking down the debates and proceedings,
" should be permitted to take their places within the
" bar of the House." Among th; Yeas, I find J.
Parker. As I was not ia the House at the time of
the vote, being confined to my room, and unable to
! att«nd, I presume it must have bees Mr. Isaac Par
ker, that voted on that question. In order to pre
vent mistakes in future, I have to request you will
either give my Christian name, or nots " Virginia,"
to any vote I may give in the House of Representa
tives ; as at this eventful crisis, it must be unpleasant
, for any member of Congress to fee his name affixed
to a vote which he does not approve of. You will
please to publish this in your paper, and I hope the
other printers will do the fame, who may have com
mitted the error.
I am refpedtfully, your's, &c.
JOSIAH PARKER.
Philadelphia; March aid, 1798.
TO correspondents.
Lucius Junius, No. I. is received—
The pcrnfal of No. 2, is requested, before
the publication commences.
" A Friend to Laws and Freedom"—To
morrow.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, March 23.
Six Fer Cent. iC/4toi6/t
Three per Cent.
Deferred 6 per Cent. 1/7
BANK United State», so to ar p«r cent.
—— Pennfvlvania, 41 per cent.
. North Amcri'a, 50 per ceyt.
tnfuranceCo. Pennsylvania. »i>
N. A so r-s per cent.
0" Ihe Members of the Welch
Society are requelted to attend an adjourn
ed meeting on Saturday the 24th inlt. at 7
o'clock in the evening, at the house of Wil
liam Ogdeu.
Qursn Fautics, Sec'ty.
lIV ~ A i
*" SALEM!' M
Latejl ft am Frame.
' Capt. J-rccs Hay tti the (ch'r. Violet, ar«
r vcd at G!ouce!lcr orr Tuesday night front
R'jchelle, which he left the Bth of Fcbru.
iiiy. S<> ftiort a psffage, from a Country
which afp.'rrs to govern even the fates them
ftlvt i we hoped would hare afforded fame*
» thing to gratify the solicitude. of an expell
ing public ; b*t on applicitton to captain
• Hay, we were d.fappointrd to find that h«
- did not Bring a single piper : the little \er.
- bal information which he gathered in the in.
tereourfe of bufiocis, he politdy coqiqiuql*
1 cated,,and it it nearly as follows :
That tiie Frenoh government exprefTei
the utmplt refcntmtnr agalnlt the AmericrU
- government, acculing them of being a par
s ty with England againll prance—That it
r was expedled our neglected onWiyi would
e return home in the spring, as their linger
- continuance there was hopeless—That the
s preparations for the invalioa of England
e were vigorously continued ; every French
1 veflel was in a ilate'of nquifition, and fail.
tors were cor.rtantly prefllJ for the service—.
1 England, Scotland and Ireland
J declared in a flateof siege, and all neutrals
1 bound to or from these countries.fubje&s of
e captyrs and condemnation—and that it was
J a common frntiment among the enthusiastic
t populace, that France was to give law to
e the uuiverfe. But notw.thflandiag appear,
t ances, there were these who believed the
e project of an inwafion was a mere pretext
e for railing contributions. The taxes had be/
f come enormous : the merchants and other*
- were very uneasy, and wi/hed a new order cf
- things j and eventheprivatefrfmen would fre«
- queutly cui fe the republic. Buonaparte was
y said to be Hill aiPari«,& lo£>,oootri>ops,devot.
t ed to him, in its environs. A report was
i- in circulation (whether it ijeferved any cre
y dit capt. Hay could not afe«rtai"n) that a
'» misunderstanding hadarifen betweenthe con.
qutror of Italy and the executive diredory,
in consequence of the former having propof.
s ed a new modification of the government,one
i- feature in which was, that iuftqad of five
r direftors, the executive power Ihoyld ba
veiled in ONE MAN.
Capt. Hay further informs, that the ship
y John and Richard, of Philadelphia, front
s ths Isle of France for Hamburg, had been
f captured and carried into Rochellc, where
- the cargo was taken out, the ship (tripped,
and fye supposed she would be condemned.
« Capt. M'lntire, fromUanrers, and Capt.
- Leach, from Beverly, had ar..'—<»and fold
- at Bordeaux.
. new-theatre?
y Mrs. Marshall's Night.
j THIS EVENING, March 23,
e he presented (never periorme i here, a TRA»
GEDY, called,
, TANCRED & SIGISMUNDA.
e [Written by Thompson, the admired author 0!
the Seafom.]
Taticred, (firft time) Mr. Fennell
Farl Osmond, WiVnell
c Siffred). ' Warren
Rodolpho, Warreli, jua.
I "^® cer ' T. Warreli
0 l d °® cer ' Hunter
Guards, Mtfrs. Lavancy, Lafferty, & c .
-aiira, Miss L'Eft-ang»
Sigifmunda, (firfl time here) I Mr.. Marftall
J End of A & XI.
MRS. TH RALE'S THREF WARNINGS,
t A Moral Tale By Mr. Bernard.
j End of the Play,
A CURE FOR A S( OLD :
' .A Comic Tale Bjr Mr. B-rnard.
t 1 o w4»clx w.il be added (for the firft time on thj»
)m "age) the Grand Historical Romahce of
Richard Coeur de Lion.
[FaVeafrom the French of Moo.. Sedaiae—Wltk
g the Original Overture Music, hy Getry the
e Accompaniments by the late Mr Linley—ai,
performed at Drury Lan* Theatre upward, of
> Sixty Nijjhts m the Seafyn.
Hichard, Mr Mal .fl, aU
t I' Darley
n « , Herdiogt \
F. r, ' (° ov - ° f Caflle) Fox
nuu*. » Bl;ffett
QldM.tthew Warr( .„
,li,am - . T. Warreli
Captain of Matilda*. Party, Warreli. jun.
Anthon a Mis. Milhourne
I' P;afjms ~ M e I-avanty, Lafferty, Huater,
Matthews, &c.
e u afles Mr. Warren, Mr.,. Stuart, Mr., Hunter,
M»d. H»rwood, Mis« Anderfon.
• Matilda, Mr». Marftall
Laurette, Mrs. Oldmixoc
lw ' Hardingc
r ( orcag, Mrs. L'Eilnyigt
I- Collettc, Mtf f 'p<i i. «
1 A , DANCJ, teld 2s »""SE.
■ iJC'iaJS;. *""■ w """' i" 0 -
" . rh ' ri f'*g °f *!- * Curtain difinrn
; 1 A distant view of a ftr CBff ( aftle, in a Mountain.
»o .. T Countr y—with a Rural Fete,
ct 11. Opens with the interior view of th« Caf.
i Rampam ' i ' l * tfonn ' D " w *
Tbe Fare: can dud*t with
! A K" nd a "ack on the ( aftle— be defeat of tho
Part T. and the reiUration of Rich
ard to Liberty.
hc had a£ the usual p'»« s ' of
"• «Mr Orel's, No a 95 Archftr.
*.* On Monday (never pertoriced here! a Co.
rnedy, called, HE BE A SOLIJIER ,
Musical Romance, called, i HE
ENCHANTRESS; -r, CYMON and SYLVIA
—Forthe benefit of Mr*. Oldmixon.
*4".Mr. BaßNAan'j Night will be on Wed
rf jay
tor Sale, or Charter,
, remarkable faft failing
i~~ SHIP
« r r,
■"swocKj—cfc-i... iheatbedwithbeft pa'ent Copper,
having been a Packet of thcKnglifcEall-India C«,i#
pany—Now>mt i.i con order she is 106
ten , and c p„ble et carrying 16gun«, now laying
at Mr Kelt's wharf. —For term rply to
Stephen Kingston,
'■ 46. VATilnut strct.
who an roa sA.t,
A Ctr£* of salt, a quantity of Sail Canvaft and
Gin in ripts
-'jirrV' 'O t . •
..ylon and Young Hyson Tea,
'' few ci e!l»of exc-llcnt qmality, for sale, c W .
nn »f Second and Pine i.teers. Qtt 2^~..uUTo be SolJ,
An e'egant Country Scat,
<*oiiuinii.K i acre, an! 4 -> petcties, wits *aeat
(noj 4 u: y bvick Heufr and kitchen thereon, •" a P"
Orchard, &c tituatc on the Irifli tra<9 lane, iu
the . T Moyamaofiag, about one mile ' ro fJ'
U»: city of Philadelphia. Further partialirsw'ill
b- 'ride know* upon application at the office o
Uir PuiladelphiaGazette. ,
Till- improvement, upon this place, f» r tA 111
tUsance itan ' unrivalled. ,
s'. B If the above place it not fold before the
loth inft. it will then be rested, for the Sum-ner
bulunooly. § march j.
Wanted,
An adlive, cleanly, induftriou, woman to cook
add do the :.ufiuefk of the kitchen. Such a one
will b* allowed good wages, no other need ap
ply—lnquir# of the Printer*
February y *
Notice is hereby given,
THATai plication will be made for the renewal
of a Cen.fieate of a Share in the Hank of the
United state», (landing in the naraa of the Soiblm
bet, N«. 5004, and dated July ii,1797 —the fame
having been loft. ,
1 JOHN GRAHAM.
march J * 6w . ,
TO LET,
And may b* enured on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Tkreeftorici high, and excellent fland for j
hafiael.. Apply tn I
Tkomets fcf
march I. $ No. 5, <
Wanted to live in the Country, <
About five miles facin tKi» city, a f.eer lira- i
day Man who understand, gardening and the u
management of a few acres of land.anl would
not objeA to attend a couple of horses. Jpcb a
a one may meet with liberal wag«s by applying
U the office of this G,iette. 5
N. B. Neae seed apply hut those of uoex- £
eeptionable charailtrj.
Marcli ij. du J
Custom House, \
filßrifl of PCWNSY LVANIA, March btlt, I 797» V
The merchants of Philadelphia, i,
who may have any account or knowledge Of c
the capture or deteution of any fbip or vcflcl, *ar- p
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United Stats». residing within this 4iftri&« by or
undtr the authority of foreign nation*, unce the
firft day as O&ober 1792, aro particularly requef- j,
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collee- f (
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may fJ
be convenient ; fpecilying the name of the veflel, j
the captain's nam?, the number of tons, the elli
itiated value of the veflel, if condemned, the efti- t :
mated value of her cargo, or other property,,wwhi p
th?r carried, and by, or under the authority erf *,
what nation captured, with such observation* as j a
may be thought necrflary upon the circui* fiances t j
of each cafe in or3er t at flarementi thereof may Q
bp tr>rfm»tted to the Sccretaiy of iheTreafury, jf
who is required to lay the fame before thi Senate t j
of Representatives of the United States, p
H. rch 7.
w A R T I 0, «
A Gardner—a Single Man. c
None nerd ppply v unkfs he can tiring good re
ccp'.mcndation.-,.
£nquirs at No. 33. Market-street.
march 1.7..
' FOR SALE, a
By WHARTON Ssf LEW|S, f
No les South Front Street. (
* £. quantity of l'aniii r'j Oil, t
4th f roof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
Xft and zd props Krandy, J jirawbaek. .
Madeiia Wire, (
Juniper Berries, &c. Sea.
Pel}. 9. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale. j
ros. sale, ,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS- :
BURY FARM, formerly tfie residence of
General John Gadtvalader, finite on Saffafra-s Ri
ver, in Kent cuunty, Maryfand— a
bout 19c# acres of pri.T.e LAND, upwards of SOQ
®f whifh are in woods. Th« Buildings are all ex- J ;
cellent, and eopfift cf a handsome Dwelling House, |
two large Barns with Cow hou f y, Stables for fifty I
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
jrar.ary, two Overfecr's houfei, two ran
-ses of two story buildings for Negroes (one ©f
lem new and of brick), Corn Jioufes, a Smoak
house , scc. &c.—'The whole Estate being nearly
furrounued by water, it require* but little fencing,
andhati a good Shad and Werring€lh.iy. It is
corvcuuntly situated for both the Philadvlpkia and
Paltiraore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable rivtr but a ftort failfr«»m Baltimore. There,
is a large Pe; ch, and two large Apple Orchard* on ♦
the picmilw; aifo, a variety of excellent fruits of •
differkinds. The foil is mostly a rich loons. }
wii) b« ft Id together, or divided into [
/ir.alter farm 3 (for which the buildings are conven
iently fituat?d) as may suit the purchafcr. The
£tr>ck on ftiid farm, confifling o» Horf*», Cattle,
Bheep, &c. will also be disposed of ——For further
particular! af,ply to GtoK®e Hastings, on the *
fremiprs, or to the fubferiher, in Philadelphia. \
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwn. I
February 14 aaw6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confilb of 9»oacres, almoll all of which ia
a 6ne rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
E«rl of StrrUng). It may be conveniently dixided
Into five fanns, four of which are bounded on the
Kart by theriver Pafaiek.
Therf are on ita number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a v<ry convenient one and.a fmallexpence would
put it ia complete repair.
y 'The orchard cooufls of I jOi fin.bearing engraf
/ed Apple Treea—and there is on other pnrts offaul
near joo other Apple 1 rees—as also a great
varie-y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a (gr-at number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeflTress, that adiito tin beauty and eonveni
ence cf the pla c Itsfituation is abtut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and tl trom Springfield It
il wooded and watered.
To save trouble, the price U five pound
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. eodtf
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL eminence drawing Monday, the loth
iflll. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sfvtm Dtllan, at Wm. JiLACKBURN's Lottery
ind Brokers Office, No. 64, South SeconJ-flreet
Tickettintl.e ichuylk'il Bridge Lottery, at TV*
D.ilnrt. where check books are kept lor regilter
liig tnJ ex.n»inmg ia th-.fe, the City ot Wafkiag
ton, No Il.an i Patttrfon Lotteriea, and informa
ti *1 re tickcta may te had in moiljof tlw Lotte
r.' suthcrifed by law in any of the Itatct of the
Un m
N.i:. The btsfinefi of a Ctoiu, in buyingit,d
f.ilirg a'l kin is of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoiMinj; bills and Nrtes of Iland, sale of
Hollies, it.ic mllbeduly attended to
♦ y WM. BLACK-BURN.
NaYt»k»r JJ. j
PROPOSALS,
PhiUdelf hia, iuthe United States.
I. Conimßn lu\iraoce., on ha,ards of the firft
daft, will he undertaken at a premium of ahout
hall per cent, per annum. For extra huardau.
ri f q Js a larger pr.n will h
will vaiy according to cireum(fc«c«, fcldora ex
ceedinirnnnc per cent, per annum ; but m some 10-
ftancen, where the property infuied » npt only m
itfclf riira hazardous, hut rendered fti 1 more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buying, and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to circumftwc*«
Hoal Ware Houfea, the .wal.s and parti
tions of which are wholly 6f Hone or brick, well
ccnftruifted, so as to br guarded as well as may be
againll fires from within, and tree from extra ha*
zardous buildings and occupations in their nei);n
b.rhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firll
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra
hazardous kir*d, in caflcs. bales, or package, de
pofitcd in fnch buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; bat if more than this sum
ia required to he injured in one tenetr-c.it, an id, :;
tianal premlmm will be required, in proportion to
circumflin f
11. Insurances will also be made on and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tharifque. But it is aot easy to arrange tbcle
under particular heads ar clafles, so as to dcfciibe
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each cafi mufl
therefore be decided upon according to the circum*
{lancesattending it ; andthefe circumflances wili,
ingeueral, appear from the description nccorrtpa
uying the application.
Eu ldir.gs partly conftrnJled of brick or stone,
are pieferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the llile of building, how thay are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are confidFfations to
be taken into view And wkhrefpeift to goods,
thair" tendency, whether from their nztsre, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether
to conunence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, and
their lia'a.lity in such Hate to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden aj d haOy removal, or to be £%o
len in time of confulion and hurry, tire all cir
cumfianceG of weight; and the premiums mull be (
pHoportioned accordingly.
111. The fallowing conditiont a,re to be under
fttfod by ti'.e parties . , ,
ift. The Ir.furance is not binding till tfee flipu-
Jated premiuiw be paid ; but it lhall be deemed ef
fectual frtm the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whetbar the policy be immediately
flgnei! or not. 1
ad. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of theterm of the policy, without furtherex
pei.fos than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumftanccs continuing the fame
as they were tfnderftood by the lufurcrs at the time (
the former iofurance was made ; but the payment (
of the ; remiumis eflential to such renewal ; and (
if the party irfured fuffers any time to elapl'e after
the expiration ef the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured (
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration .
of the former fnfurance. The fubje.3 of insur
ance may uevejthelefs be op n to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance bereadeon the fame
property ; ittnuft ba made kaown at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
piication will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy; but
they are not to be considered as infuied ather wife.
ith. This company «ill f K- _
tabic for any loss or damage occafionrd by any for
eign invafian, orbyany military or ufarped force,
or Ijy reason of aay civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or ather tiling of tlie
like kind kr-pt in the Building, or amonglt the pro
perty iafared.
*th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pio
niifiory Notes, arc not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors eiceading the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to he considered as iafured un
lals particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree-
J not.
7th. No infarance will bt made for a fliarter
term than one year, nir for a longer terra than fe
vea years. Persons choosing to infara for seven
years Ihsll be allowed one year's premium by way
of dileount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated m like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
Bth. I.olTes sustained by fireo0 property insured,
ftallba paid in thirty days after due proof aed li
quidation thereof, without deduflian.
A delciiption of the property to be iafurod will
. be cxpc6ie4 with each application, to be made by
■ amafter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
bytheownerof the bailding ot applicant for in
! furat.ee, and attefled before a Notary or principal
Magitlratc, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpefl to Houjii andothtr Buildings,
jft. The fit< and pofitk n ; dcfcribing the
[ ftrect or road on or near yifhich the building
: i ftanila ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
j cumftartcea relative to the extinguiflimeut of fire
jin cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any apd what fire companies are eftabliflied, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbtiai hood.
% ad. '1 he materials of which it is built, whe
. ! ther of brick, ftoseor w«od, and what part of
j j each, as well as to th>ouifide walls as infideor
e partition walls, and their refpetftive height and
' thukuefsj the ityle of the roof and of whal
materials ; ho» feturcd by battlements or par
> ty walU ; what kind of access to the ti pof the
d house and to the chimniea | whether any JB d
what elearic rods j the number and kmd of
r- fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
d 3d. The dimensions of the building and how
It diwded, and the style in which it is finifted so
ie as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
d injury ; the age and condition of the buildia*
>- and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel'
=» 1 ling house, or for any other, and for what par
?• pose , also aa estimate of the value of rhe k) U i e
or buildwg independtnt of the ground.
4'h. Thefituotior with refpedl to uther build
ln*s or hacJ ' b "'l<ling», whether adjoining or
not, toaiprehending at least one hundred feet
t. 7a y ! "l 1" k ', nd , uildin g» «" witlin
that thfhnce, how built, of what materials,and
- how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
. 'ys' for P riv «e families or otherwise : w he
ther any and what trade or manufaflory is car
» nedon, and.particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually f! epo
_ sited m the ! heufc, or within the distance afore
laid, and of what kind. c
.. KtlpedUnggoods in H «ufts, Warehouses, «, c
l- A genca dcfcnptioa of the building i„
'■ r J" C p e will be Umilar ij
.. all refpefla, as to the danger from fire, with that
, required for lofuran.e on the building, tbe m
d 2. A defcriptioa of the Uudt and nature of
, the goods, whether in calks or other package,
,f or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
'* Pftr* ° r^ D ,h * UrUil forna * And
.f th. good, vary materially iu-kind, a gene^l
of the Taiae at aath kmd pr,p|f cd 7o
be in.'ured ; but in the hH parricular ainote
neft of description i- not expected. ,
Articles of the following c em
«d extra haiirdou*, thougfc in vant us tcp .
in H'hati- ver buildup t>cy pay He placed, v«
pitch, tar, turpentine, wl-n, wax, <™ w -
in flammable fpirita, Mp 4ur,hemp, flax, Cotton,
Wry goods of an inflammable kind
Gl<f«, China wire or porcelain, »
parked; Looking gUffea,jswelery: Jttfc 0
ther articles mors than commonly «* d ;
or ore than commonly liable to mju . J , ,
den removal or by moistures, °!" f ar 1 •- ;
obnoxious t® theft on an alarm of r '~ r
Letters p*4t paid, dire<9«d to the Secreta y
the Board of Direflors, will be duly _attended
to. An order fur Insurance accompanied by fte
means of, paying the premium, will be 'me
diately executed on the premium t»emg p •
tie application contain an enquiry only, it wii.
be anfwed.
B> orf/ir of the Boarfl,
EBF.NKZER HAZARD, Sec ry.
Ofice of the Insurance Company o/NorU )
1 America; l-kilad. Feb. i, 1798- >
Pth. 14-
House and Lots, in Bordeniown.
T" 1 © BE SOLD, a bandfonae two story House,
1 With the Lot# wWhit is erefled, situat
ed about the middle of the beautif.l and healthy
Village of Bordentoirn. The house isi torty.
two feet ill front, and in neat order. Ihe lot
contains one acre, ij'.d is one hundred feet on
the main street, ar.d ; extends with the fame
breadth to h.tck Arret. A If®, a large I-ot, son
taining.nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required npon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, fnch £ rcd"
w 11 he given as the purchifer may chafe. 1 his
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire titter of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordcntown, near
the premife3, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON;,
Conveyancer, No. 43, J4ulberry-ftreet.
December 1. 3*wtf
Boston Glal# Manufa&ory.
TH?. citizens of the United States are hereby
m/ofraed, that the manufa&ure of Window
Glass is new commenced at the Glass House in
ltisneedlefs to fay anything of the eicellent
quality of the BofHn Glafx, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every rtf
pe<3 greatly faperior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cat to any fixe commonly ufsd ; and
may be conflantly had by applying to Cbanln f.
Kupfer, at the G4af. Hoafe.
Orders from the diflant States t» be addrefTed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftrort, Boston.
Two or three £«od Olafsmakers are want
ed at the above works; fnch as can prodnce ra*
commendations fqr good behavier, may before of
eihploy, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the methed
of reaking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boston, January 16 f—lawftw
New-York, February, 1798.
Pi? C?PO.JyfiSBY GEORGE FORMAN,
roR ra ntikc ay sußscaiPTiow,
A New and Valoable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix msnths—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIRACY against
all the Religions and Government# of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Mafont, lllnminati, and Reading Societies. C*l
leded from good authorities
Bt JOH?TTKJBISON, a. m.~
Prefe£or of Natural Philefopiy, and Secretary to tie
Poyal Soeiety of Edinburgh,
Nam tua ra agitur furies eum proxivtus ardet.
trt" THIS work will he put to prefsas soon as
403 fubferioers are obtained,andno money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper ot fn
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat o<ftavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Thofewho procure 13 fnbfcribers, and become
accountable, shall have a 13th gratis—and the u
lual allowance to booksellers.
*„* Tat above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation in the literary world—the fails therein
recorded are well fubftautiateand thereafoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they disco
ver the foand judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well as to in
fixing. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fuffident to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret societies is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
turelawfully illullrated, and the harari of every
deviation !rsm the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteflibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertabla fjfis.
■tit Suifirif 'tiami ialtn U by G. Forman, No. 46,
WiUiam-frc.t, ypefiu tbs and by tke r effee
tit • bockfteller lin New-York and Philadelphia.
February jB.
Nenv-York, January 14, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt \*an Hook,
Proprietnr of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland;
Wife of the Minister »f the Interior in France.
, CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
, t ,r, nsin a few months,) will be comprised in a
of 400 pages each.
t hey will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume —one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscorapleat.
To Fnntcrs, Booksellers, and others, who
. acquire Subscriptions, the ulual allowance will
be made.
t d & S " bfcri P tiont are taken at the Readiag
i Room, No. 149, Water ftreet-the Printini
-1 n u f4 '» . Pasrl - ftreet —and at the different
. B oo tftore S <a New-York- Aifo, by William
Young, corners Second and Chefnut street, ,nd
" C " eUe ° f tbC UniteU Stat ' s >
" comaleated with the utmost ddpatch '
Feb. 10. r \
-■ - eodina
1 For Sale,
! good fitu,t 'un for a Country Si at
,crct °f laud on the Old York Rn*J
wuhm figin of German town aad about Sv« miles'
from the City, the whole being uudcr Eo »d fa ce
1Bd „ m f« a, p allure grounf' eCCe '
• irl' Dr i urther lnfo "nation aad terms, apply to
I ?"h LU ?X C«»sso«, at his office for the
. aiwj.w
treasury department,
11 MARCH i, 17*8.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r . , r> f Cencrefs pafTcd on the sixth day of July one thonfand fsven hundred lßl j
IN pursuance 04 t u !. laying d«ties on Stamped Vellum, Parehment and Paper , and the
niqety-feven, e-.- Q £ vj eci;m ber, one tho*» ind seven hundred and nin«ty-fe»«n, eatitlej
Aft passed o V. e r or 3 limited time the cgmmenceme.'t of the uaties imposed by tfce Aft «nti.
",1". A AnAffis Stamped Vellura, Parchmeut and P.per", that from and alter ,he
ft t 1 lv < nf*W the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and c<Hlcc»
firit oay-ot J"'/
t;d throughout the United htatts.
r ,„,r, flcin or piece of VeUum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon vrkich fliall b»
or Liated any or either o! the inltrumciits or writingsollawing—to wit:
written or printeu 7 g f} j
« _ r's.rttfirate of Naturalization, - " 5
a 7 tJla ce to pratfae.or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment « r regiftryof
anv Counfeilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proper, in asy Court of the
& a Certificjte in any one of the Courts of the United State.
r ' the laid' cvflcw. fiiall :<> far as relates to the payment of the
fjty afor.' 1«4, be a ft.flUent ad -dion in all the Courts of the United " "
States, fbreafh andeVerf olti.elV-offices. _
A fiv Grant or Lettei s Patent,'under die -leal or authority of the United States
" for lands cranled for miliury krvices) - - 4
Anv eXplificatinn or . er«ifie4 copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military fervn es) - " *
Anv Charter-Party, Uottomry, or Uefpondentia Bond, - * * 1
* nv Receipt or dikhaige for or 011 accountot anyLegacyleftby any Will oro
- tLr tettamentary iilirumcnt, or for any lhare or part ot a personal estate di
vided bv forte of any statute of diftr'fbuti.us, other than to the U ite, Lhtl
dren or Grand Children of the perfoa deccafecl.the amount wheveot (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and lhall not exceed the value of One Hun-
When the«oniount thereof (Hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
lhall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - . r 50
And for every further.fum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional Turn of I
A«y Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, in auy ship, vellel or
foods infnrcdfrom one diftridl to another in the United States, 35
From the United States to ahy foreign port or plaee, when the sum for whitti
Infuranc« is made lhall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
Whea the sum insured fliall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Anv Exemnlificatios, of tvhit niture soever, that ihall pass the feall of any
Court, other thaj such ; • may bt the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or fosne particular Hate, - 50
Any >ond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exrhange. protniffury
note or other note, other than any recognixince, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any ttate, or for their
uferefpeflively, - - - - " 1
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - [ :o
If attovc one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dsllars and nor exceeding one thousand dWlars, 50
And if above one thoufard dollars, - - - 7j
PrrviJtsi, that if any bwcUor notes (hall be payable at or within Ixty days,
ftfetrfcoirfb-or rujte. two -££ th jarts of the dutT- _
aforefaid—viz. - - * 1 ~
If above twepty dollars and not exceeding one hundred doHa-rs, - j +
If above on* hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 1 I 0
If aWore five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoafand dollars, » J0
If above ona theufaad dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued bv the banks sow efltblilhed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the' United States, other than the not®s of such of the said Banks
as shall agree te an annual compofitiou, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by fnch Batiks, to their Stockholders refpedlively, according to
the following fcaln. - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 6
On til cotes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, Je >
Cn all notes above one handred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - " I
On all notes above five hnndred dollars, . I . %
Any Proteh or other Notarial ail, -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfton, or to obtaia orfell War
rants for. Land granted by the United States as bounty for nilittry services
performed in the late war, - ...
Any Certilcateor Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollar*, - - - I
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, %
For wore than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandise to be exported,
If from one diJri& to another diftridl of the United States, not being is the
fame State, - - 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effinfls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods take* in virtue of any legal process by any offieer,) $n
Assy Cc'iiifn are us a Gharc-i» * lIT I r»fartn<t Company, tht Haul nf '
the United itates, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above »»e handred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
n.
The duties aforelaii will be colleiSed and received by the Supervisors, InfpeAors aud other Offieers
of lnfpe&ian, ia the several Survey* and Divifians of the United itates, aad by such other
persons at shall frem t* time b« fpecjally appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrifls far
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the several DiftriSs will, prior to the firft day of Jnly enfuiog, and as soon aa
may be praaicable, mark or stamp, without f«s or reward, any quantities or parael* »f Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, o« payment of the'faid duties ; Of
damped velluns, parchment and paper r..ay at the option of the Citiien. of the United States, be'ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supc-.rvilor, InfpeAer, Officer of lufpeolwn,
or other parte* appointed for the diftrihntion «f Stamps, by the Supervisors of DiftriAU
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
/ the day aad year eiweaentimed.
1 OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Stcrctary of tie Trtafury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who havt any demands against
tht estate of Willam Fleewtoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, Merchant, de
ceased, are requeted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, arc desired te make immediate
payment, te
GIO.DOBSON, } * „ ,
No. »j, So. Tlurd-ilveet. 5 r
Jaauary 4. dtf
Just Publi£hed,
And t» ba had at tha Book -flor«s of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of «r Bilious
Fevers.
To ivhub is anntKcd,
AN ABSTRACT of tha options and practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intarefting fadlj and i«fle<3ians relative to
the Synechia Iffiroutu, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of tha United States «f America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Fe!o\v of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Pkilc.ophicJ So-
Cltt 7- t—*3m§
for sale or to be let on pround
rent,
™ d valualle Lot of Ground ;
S *UA 1 E on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet frost
on Walnut street, anyone huudred and thirteen
reel and an half on Fifth llreet ; there are. at
prefer.', two final! two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Mfo, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flares, wharf, &«. fiiuatton
Vater street, between Mulberry and Safiafras
streets, containing ia front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
louth thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing cn the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uanoii for a a merchant, flour fadlor, or others
who may have occasion. for storage of goods.
I hit property will be fold on very reafbuable
terms for rash. For furthor information apply
to the printer.
J u 'y Ji- mlrwtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofinyto coatrad his bufw
ness, offers this Estate for file, on moderafV
terms. On it arc one Blaii and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; alio a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conna&-
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for tfie purppfe of casting Cannes
for this State. —There are nbou two thousand acres
of Laud, one half of which is under wood, the other
vary fine arable Land, producing the best and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of ixty-nine guns
lately made, although fame of the 94 ware bored
into 32 pounders have failtd on proving. The fili
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying intheftate
of Conne£licut.and only 30 miles from fcveral land*
iugs on the Hudfon'a river,and having every advatu
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water iffcing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wiih all the flock and utenfiis, and have pbfleffion
on or before the firft of Juneaext, and preparation
may be madein the mean u me for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with forae coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Repreienttfeives
ia Congress for this State ; Mr, ©avid Wateiman, or
the prcmifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOM.
Doe. t. jawtf
A 0 T I C E.
A Manufactory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as wever wa* in this Country before, has been
been lately erefVed at Tivoti, Red Hook Lauding,
on the East Bank of Hudfoft'i River, sos Nc#}
York, wheie any article of vaiious forts pr»d fhapet
may be executed, as well as eartheru ft<-yes upon a
new conftiu&ion, that favrs three fourths.©f thefael
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chvmnies;
they are brfides vary wholesome and ornamefftal, by
' J. mouchet,
Wanted a fkillful ha»d to attend to the baking aad
glaring part of the laid ware. Generous appoint*
menu will ba viven or t©
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 iouih ,sth Streer.
Feb. 19. eod4vr
Wanted, to Hire,
*j\ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
A. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer Inquire of tht printer.