AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
ftUMBF.g iBao.J
C O N G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
9*tpkday, June 16.
(Com. ti 'tilfrom tur lajl J
Mr. Otis Taid, that th: objiflif>na made
•gainst this bill are not such as he had anti
cipated. He expedled to hare heard the
ronfti liberate harangues in favour of the
Hbeity of th( pr f«, and nn the rwhc which
ought to be allowed, to cmfure men and
jnrafur; i, and such popular topics ; but he
did not sorest« tny objefHoo arifuig from the
copliitutie.n.
"lid not think it required much time
or j'ailitv, ho ever, to aiifwer to the ob
'ii3 produced on this occafi»n by the
g ntlem 'n from Peunfylwuu i. If Congrefj
iiav not the power of rellraining fe itiuut
perfoii3, ij is extremrly cl.-ar they have not
the p.>wer which the Co llitutio.' fays they
have, of providing for the common defence
and ';ti;eral wilfa'e of the Ufl.'or..
ft had been f iid, Congress wis reftr'fted
from the life of this power by the £ i) f. iftion
of the lit article th:. Conllitnt on, winch
provide* lhat the migratim or importation
of such persons as the States (hniid thistk
pmptr to admit (hould not be prohibited prior
u>lßoß. It this ctauie in iis moll rigid
coulbuction amounted to a prohibition to
the National Government with refpetl to the
bam'lhmeut of aliens, in all iafes where the
separate States had thought . rop r to admit
them ; it should ltill.be (hewn tliat individual
States had Cver thought pro tr to adtnit
Aliens ol tfic description mentioned in this
bill. He btjuved uo state bud palfeu laws
dedcring it lobe tlteir intention to admit
fugitives from jullice and seditious persons
inro their territory. It is true, that fomt
of (he States may have tol. rated the admiffi
oool luih persons by forbearing tocuaft laws
•agaiiift them ; but their silence on this fubjctl
can neve beconfideredas evidence of their as
sent to the eriiigrati ;ii of liicii characters.
Tie article of the Co ■ dilution alluded to
as he underltood it, had an evident reference
to a species of f reigntrs held as property hi
some of the Slates wh fe- importation are
fondtioned by their laws. He meant slaves.
Tlieobj<ct was t» prevent any interference
of the General Government with the State
Qovernraents in the sdmifTion of these per
fotw bef retli* year 18s8 This conltruc
*ioo appeai* very material, becaule in all
tbofe S>t tes where this property is field,
they have th'irown laws for regulating their
adtn ffion and importation, but in no lUte
did laws exilt regulating the migration of
any other Aliens.
sut the gentleman from r«ni>fylvani* fays,
that after th; ( onftitution had been adopted
by nine i f the States, the old Congress re
commended to the several States to take
meafdfes against the intr duction of male
feiturs from foreign countries, and from
hence he infers ti at this right did not be
long to the old Congress and in their elli
mation was not delegated to the Federal
Government. The faft is, that although
the Constitution was adopted yet as the le.
giflatnre had not then met, it was net in
.operation, and the old Congress, perceiving
•dangers arising from this source, might as
wtil reconuMend to thr dates to provide a
gai .ft them, as againll any 01 her dangers.—
buppof?, before the Congress had met, mo
tley had betn wan ing, and the States had
been applied to for it, would it afte> wards
have been said that the requisition of theoid
Congress ifier the Conft.tutien had been
ratified was evidence of their opinion, that
the Legislature of the Union under the r.ew
Government, had uo authority to raise mo
ney ! He pre fumed that it was forefeen by
tlie old Congress that the attention of the
Legiflsluve under -the new Government
would of DectfSty be occupied upon fubjefts
of a m< re momentous nature, for some time,
and the recommendation was wife in itfelf,
and by no means ctinclufive against the au
thority now, claimed by this bill.
But it was (aid, that to pass this bill
would be to fufpeod the Habers Corpus.—
He denied.this. Evei y Aliea resident, when
apprehended, woutd be at liberty to apply
to a judge son a writ of Habeas Corpus.—
The return of the warrant w; uld (hew that
he had boea legally apprehended as a pcrfon
dangerous to the peace of the United Stales
and under their authority, and he would be
<vf cnurle recommitted. But it appeared to
him an absurd supposition, that Congress
lias not the power to restrain and to baiiilh
jserfont who may have been sent ii»o this
country for the very purpose of spreading
sedition and of dividing tie people, whose
intrigues and malpractices threaten the wel
fare and the very exilltnce of the govern
ment. If the Conftttu-ion prevented Con
gress from ixerciling these powers would
such a Constitution be worth a farthing ?
It certainly would not ; lince ihe power of
feruling nil this description of peifons," is ef
fcnlial not only to the promotion of the
|r»b ic welfare by preferviag peace, but to
tlvs efficieut prolecution of a war.
But he wished to know why the fe&ion
•f the Constitution alluded 10 according to
the couiliu£tion of gent'iemen might n< t as
well rellcain Cocgrds from taking measures
againll the migration of a French Army, as
uphill the landing of other Aliens ; for he
no power giveii to Congress by the cen
llituuoi' to prevent the migration ol a Fo
reign Army into this country. Vet
tUre is no tapref? authority to this «(Ted,
it is one of these things, which i» too evi.
Jent to be doubted, and an «rmy of soldiers
would not be so ila igtrous to the country,
as an army i f spies and incenejiaries scat-
Kred through the continent.
By John Fenno, N 8 119 Chefmit > Street
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 12, 1798.
He thought the whole question resolved
itfelf into this enquiry ; has Congress the
power to provide for the common detence
a'.d welfare of the country ? A«d if so, do
we deem it essential to this end, that the
propof d powtv (hould be given to the Pre
(ident, or to some other Departmentof Go
vernment ? He thought it was, and if there
be any thing in the letter of the Constitution
whi h would appear to bear a differe .t con
ftruftion (which he detiied) it ou lit to be
recoi.cded to other clauf.s and po *rs which
impose the sacred and fupet ior duty of pro
viding for the fafe;y ,oi ihe country, a-id
without which all our efforts against our
enemy will prove vain and futile. In this
cafe there was not a (hadow of difficulty.—
Aliens may come hither under the laws of
the States, and when they become dange
rous thi-y may be expelled by the laws of
the Union.
It remained for gentlemen to consider
whether we have any dang;r to apprehend
from thi3 source, or not. Whether the
French reigM not employ other pe' fonsthan
their own citiaens to carry on their nefarious
purposes in this country ? In his humble
opiqun, there is greater daoger from this
f urce than from any other. He elieved it
li>d ecu owing to this lhat all the
repacks in Europe have bi;en laipriftrate
in the dnll ; it is thin fyftetu which has ena
bled tie French to overleap all natural pnd ani
ficial obftrnclions ; t fuhjuoate Holland and
Italy, to destroy the Helvetic confederacy
and force a passage through rocks and mo.U' -
tains which have been for ages acred to jhe
defen;e of liberty ; it is this system which
has watered the tomb of William Tell with
the blood of widows lighting over their
slaughtered hufoands and with the tears of
orphans who survive to swell the proceflion
of t'ie viiftors.
Mr. O. notwithstanding believed that
there are Aliens in t i.is country who would
never be affe£Ud by hi: law and that there
were among us even natives of France,
whose merit and misfortunes gavq a claim .to
protection and who would prove good citi
zens ; and he was willing to make the moll
ample provision for the security of the pro
perty of both' Alien enemies and Alien
friends. But while he refpeQe the rights
of the individual and disdained to retaliate
upon private property, he could not, with
the dreadlul examples ofother countries be.
fore his eyes, ou.it the molt necefTa y pre
cautions against the mod inftart danger.—
In the late situation »f those cowries ard of
his own country, he could trac. some pain
ful analogies If we knew ourselves to be a
chosen people, if the age of miraclea (hould
return aud omnipotence (hould fpiak to us'
by the mouths of h s holy prophets, neither [
miracles or prophecy would llrike home to ;
his mind a deeper conviSio.i than he now i
felt, that in the faie of the European Re- j
pub ics we might read our own, unless all I
the prudence and energies of our country j
were fuoimoned to avert it. They boasted 1
of their patriotism and courage, they talked
loudl/of defence, and xif refilling the inva
der ; of their attachment to their govern
ment, and of their preference of death to
submission. Vet when the hour of trial ar
rived, it appeared that secret corruption and
foreign influence had completed their work j
upon the flighted shock those repuhlicks
crumbled into fragments, and the good aiid
the honcft citizens were left to (tare with
(lupid wonder«t theeale with which foreign
agents and domestic traitors vaulted into
place and power. It is needless to fatigue
the committee with these recitals.—Not to
fee their application is to be blinded with' a
flood of light —Not to believe in their moral
was grufs and fatal infidelity. He hoped the
.objeiilion would be renounced and that the
bill would pass.
Mr. R. Williams said, that although
there might, in his opinion, be many objecti
ons against the palling of a bill of this kind,
and though he believed it would be consis
tent wi.th.tbe rules of the floufe to shew tliat
impolicy, to induce the committee to ftrikc
out the firft feflion, he (hould confine himlelf
to the conftitutioiwl question.
If the principle which the gentlemen from
Mallachufetts have drawn from the preamble
of the constitution, of providing for the com
mon detence and welfare of the Union, be cor
real, it appeared to him iinnecedary to have
any other provilion in the constitution besides
the preamble, as it may be inferred from that,
that Congress has all power whatever. If
such a conftruclion be allowed, what becomes
of the powers of the state governments ? This
preamble of the copftitution would fwajlow
up the whole.
Mr. W. conceived gentlemen erred in the
very commencement of their arguments, in
not considering how the general government
had,grownout of the state governments, and
from the people. For it is clear, if they had
thus coniidered the matter, they niuft have
seen that this government can have noothe
rower than what is given to it from the state
governments, and by the people, in the con
stitution. Mr. W. would agree, that if the
general government were to be considered as
poftelling all power, and the state govern
ments and people as poffelling none, then
the arguments of gentlemen would apply—
but he believed this was a ground that no
gentleman could maintain, it niuft be ac
knowledged that the state governments retain
to thenifelves certain powers, and that the
people also rera u certain other powers, which
they have neither delegated to the (late nor
general government; and far the latter to at
tempt to exercise any power which has not'
been given to it by the constitution, is of
courfc a violation of the constitution.
Thegentleman from Maflachufettsfirft up
(Mr. Scwall) grounded bis arguments in sup
port of this bitl on two principles, viz. on the
preamble of the Conftitutioa, and on the ppw
ier of Congress to regulate commerce. The
latter he thought a curious idea, that all emi
grants coming to this country (hould be confi.
dered as articles, of commerce. No such idea
could certainly be drawn from the conftituw
on, and it was inconliftent with any exposition
of the word commerce, which he had. ever
heard of. Bur admitting these emigrants could
be coniidered as articles of com me ice, he
.vould ft,II alk whether the principle wouid
goto the extent of this hill ? It would not.
It only went to fay, Congrfefs should have the ;
power of laying a tax ol ten dollars upon their
•migration ; as the migration cannot be pro
hibited till the year 1808. Mr. W. could not
fee how gentleman could contend from this
clause of the constitution, that Congress has a
right to prevent tlve migration of foreigners,
(or remove them .after which
would be the fame thing) to individual, ftatcs ?
or whether, if Congress could' fend out one
person, there be any thing in the confthution
to prevent them from fending ou* all aliens
from the country ? And if this could be done,
he Would go so far as to fay, that all that spe
cies of pfoperty (slaves) which may well be
looked upon as an evil, and dangerous to so
ciety, not only at present, but in the moll
peaceable times, may also be sent out of the
country. And as ready as the Southern ftaies
are to grant slaves are a dangerous property,
and an evil ir» 1 heir country, they will notcon
fent to Congtefs' alfuming the power of de
priving tlieir owners of them, contrary to
their will. Yet they might as well exercifii
tjus power, as the one they are about to ex
ercise.
Mr. W. did not think was enough to fay
that evils exist, for Congress to proceed to re
medy rhetn. They ought firft to enquire whe
ther they have the conftiHitional power to af
ford tlie remedy, or whether it is not placed
eltewhere. But gentlemen exclaim, shall we
not pun.fh perfoiis who commit ortences i He
would aufwer, Yes; but this bill does not 1
propose a punishment for an offence, or that j
persons shall be convicted beforethey arepu- :
nrfhed and lent away. Aliens are to be sent !
out of the country on -fiifpjqion, which is not
to be ascertained by any known tribunal, but
at the'dilcretipu of the Prelident of the United
States ; and as it would be unpoftible for him
perlonally to attend to cases which may hap
pen in diuerei.t parts of the U. States, he must
have correspondents in different parts of t e
U. States, upon whofc x inforination he will
have implicitly to rely. He must also delegate
his power to persons within the different states
—-and though he.migfu not himfelf abuse it,
noone could fay that none of his agents would
do so. Besides, it is inconsistent with the pro
visions of our cwnltitution, and our modes of
jurifpruder.ee, to transfer power in this man
ner, and he conceived that it would be better"
to endure a temporal evil than to violate the
const I ,tu tion.
The latter gentleman from Malfachufetts
asserted another curious principle—a principle
which he never heani advanced before, Viz.
That it the states think this law a violation of
their right, they might pass a law to contra- 1
vene it. Could then the power exist in both
the state governments and the government of
the U. States, if gentlemen wished to
duce a state of things which he was not defir
-011 s of feeing, this, in his Opinion, is the way
loeft'ectit. The conftitutiortadmitted of 110
such prioeiple as this.- It a law was patted it
was immediately it was according
to the constitution ; as it was supposed Con
gress understood their powers too well to pass
a law which the Constitution does not give
them authority to pass. It would not do for
them to fay to the states " you have been
Ibackward in your duty, and therefore we will
do it tor you. n It is their power, arid they
have a right to use it,or let it atone.
It had been said the ift article of the ninth
fettion of the constitution relates ot)ly to slaves
—but the term migration gould not relate to
(laves ; lince they were not imported accord
ing to their free will : It must apply to emi
grants, not only from foreign countries, but
from one state to another ; and as far as lie
ever understood the ground upon which that
clause was adopted, it was, in orderto accom
modate thole states who have large tracts of i
uncultivated country, by permitting them to '
have leave to admit of such migrations as they
should judge proper, for a period which they
deemed fulficient to insure them a fufirciency
ot population. Indeed, he believed the con
stitution would never have *een adopted
without a clause of this kind, /as those states
who were in this situation, and who brought
forward the clause, would never have agreed
to it without such a provision.
But the gentleman from Maffachufett6, said it
would be hard indeed, if Congress had not the pow
er of preventing people from scattering feiitioo
through the country. He agreed with that gcatle
man it would be ha r d if Congress had not that
power. But is this bill merely for the purpose of
punishing offences ? No such thing ; it is for the
purpose of fending persons out of the country be
fore they have committed auy offqnee. If the bill
merely provided punishment lor offenccs,^which v/e*£
defined, he should not ohje& to it ; but it was of p
much rnsrc arbitrary cast.
The fame gentleman went on to fay what a par
ticular nation had done; but this bill does not re
ate to *ne nation but to aliens from aH countries ;
land because other nations have done mischievous
and turbulent a&s, are we, said he, to violate oijr
const tution, merely to come at particular ch .rac
f<:rs He would not do ir. If there were no rthar
means of doing it, he % would leave them at large :
but he said there w ere oth r means of doing it. Our
constitution, he said, would be a vcryflenicr secu
rity to the people of this country, in the poffeffioin
if th 'fc rights which he fuppnl'cd they never meant
willingly to part with, if, on the cry of tkerc being
danger here, or feditiou3 persons there, violations
wete to be made in it, in order to meet the evil. If
this were once admitted, there would not be want
ing persons who would be ready to take advantage
of these opportunities, to brfng about a radical
change in our government. Vain and idle insinu
ations of this kind havi already had too much
weight in this country, and he hoped they would
not be fuffered to alarm the house into a violation
of the constitution, and, of ceuri'e, their oath to sup
port it.
The gentleman from Maflachufetts last up, said
he N was lurprizcd the bill had heen attacked in this
refpedt. He could readily believe the gentleman
had been surprized, from the arguments he made
use of ; but he could assure him, that it was not be
cause he did n»t think other parts of the bill objec
tionable, that he did not at present notice (hem. If
the unconftitutionality of the measure was fuftici
cnily grounded, it would be unncceffary to go into
those parts bill which the gentleman fuppo
; fes are calculated to bring about a difcufTion on the
Liberty of the Press He hoped, the fetftion would
be ftru k out, because he thought it impoflible to
make this brti any other than a violation of the
i constitution.
Mr« Bat ard observed that the gentleman from
I* linfylvania (Mr. Gallatiti) had objedled to this
bill on three di/Fcrciit grounds, viz. In the firft
place, h$ tiates that Coagrels poiTcffes no power
which 19 'not given to it by the constitution, and
that the power of making a law like the piefent is
not g vcft. In the next place he ftate^ f that this
btil militates against that tlaufe of the constitution
which lay* the privilege of the writ #f habeas cor
pus fkall net be lufpended, unless in cases of rebel
lion orinv.ili.>n ; and in the third place, that it mi
litates against that article of the constitution which
fays that Congress ihall not prohibit the migration
of such persons as the state* shall think proper t o ad
mit, before a certain period.
With refpedl to the firft.objeiftion he agreed with
the gentleman from Pennsylvania tliat Congress
had !>• power, but what was given them by the
constitution. He thought the r 2th article of the a
mendments conclusive on this point. Heconfcfkd,
however, he could not fee why the gentleman fliould
refer to any proceedings under the old confederal
tion, to support his becaufe this govern
ment had be«n lubftituted in of that, and de
rives its powers ami authority from the constitution,
*nd not from any thing done under the old govern
ment. But Mr B. contended, that the power was
expressly, if not fpecifically given to Congress, by
the Ift article of the Bth fedlion of the constitution,
which* is in the following words, " Congress ftuil
have power to lay and colled taxes, duties, imports
a-id excises, to pay the debts, and provide for the
common defence and general welfare of the United
6tates : hot all duties, tmpofts and excises, fliall be
uniform throughout the United States."
Thus, then, it is evident that the power is ex
pressly given to Congress, to provide tor the conv
mon defence and general welfare and it is not we
ceflary to be'given fpecifically. The
article of the fame fe<£tion also pro/ides,
44 tliat Congress Ihall make all law 9 which fliall be
and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers." Hence it is extremely
clear that Congress has the power to do what is ne
cessary for the common defence and general wel
fare ; and the only question before the committee
is, whether this law is necessary for thvfe purposes ?
Because if it is, it coines wirhm the exprel's letter of
theconl|itution.Therefore,inftead of arguing against
the constitution, it became necessary for the gentle
man from Ptnnlylvania to shew that the provisions
of this bill are not necessary for the common de
fence and general welfare of the United State*. Mr.
B. then read rhe provisions of the fe<ftion. With
respeCt to the firft description of aliens here spoken
of, viz. felons, Mr. B. supposed it must be the wifti
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania, and every bo
dy else, to free our country from infamous charac
ters kind. In order to prove that Congress
have not the po <ver to fend out of t)»e country per
sons of this description, the gentleman has had re
course, not to the constitution, but to the laws of
Pennsylvania. But when the law -which he had
adduced, was considered, it confirmed the propriety
of fending off from the country men who had been
convi&ed of felony in another country , for that
law ft?ys, persons of this description shall not be
permitted to come into the country at all. And
could there be any doubt, he asked, of the propriety
of this condu<ft ? He was certain the gentleman
from Pennfyluania could not fay it would be for
the welfare of this country to admit characters, who,
having offended the laws of their own country, as
well as every sense of morality, c®uld not be expect
ed to become good citizens here, or serve any pur
pose which the gentleman from Pennsylvania or any
other gentleman could have in view.
The next defcript on of persons against whom
this bill is dtre&td, includes aliens who are fugitives
frdm justice on charges of treason or sedition. And
can there, he asked, be any more doubt as to the
propriety of excluding from the United States this
class of aliens ? He believed not. It might easily be
supposed, that persons who have been guilty of trea
son' Or sedition in their native country; who have
bc£n able to break all the tics of allegiance and af
fe<ftion for one government, w?Il not become very
obedient 6r peaceable citizens here ; it cannot be exr
petSted that these exotics will support thl. govern
ment, when they have notoriously opposed ps
the country which they have dcCcrted. " This provi
sion, he faitj, would ®wly extend to those aliens
who had been in the country a less period than two
years, and he thought such a provision would be
very proper *0 operate upon this description of per
sons. Fo when he law men amongst us, who had
been in the country 15 or 20 years, wanting in at
tachment to this country, and even some men
who ojjrc their birth to it, he supposed but little de~
pendente could be placed upon the attachment ©f
alierjs to this government, who have hcen here a
ftiorter period than two year«, and that it might be
supposed they yvovild be as likely to join the stand
ard of an enemy, in cafe of an invasion, as that of
this country.
The third description of persons included
in this bill art-J'.sofe whofi.- continuance in the
United States the President (hull deem inju
rious to the public ' t aud frfety.
Uf>on this heafl, the gentleman trom Penn
sylvania mig.ht, perhaps, differ trom him ?n
opinion. He thought the consideration was,
whetlier, if this power wasgiven'to t-he Prc
fideot, lie would abuse it ? He had no-limi
tation in faying that he had so much confi
dence in the Prefidentas tobelieve the power
would npl be atyufed. And if we ha.l reli
ance that power would not be abused, he
did not think any other objection could be
brought against it ; because if it was not abu
sed, no person will ever be fer>t away whose
residence is not judged dnngeroiisto the pub
lic peyce and falety of the United State 6, and
such persons no one couUl wifti to be retained.
Mr. B. concluded,' therefore, that the
power of Congress to ac"t upon all the diffe
rent cases contained in this fedlion is ftridtly
contained in the constitution, by the two
clanfcs which he had read to th? committee.
\Vith rt'fpei:t to the objections of the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania, that this clause
will operate against that clause of the Consti
tution which fays the writ of Habeas Corpus
shall not be suspended, he certainly had not
formed an accurate Opinion upon that f übjoll.
In order to know whether this is a suspension
of the writ of Habeas Corpus, it will be pro
per to enquire what is a suspension ot it?
This is a definite idea, eftablifned by prece
dent. In England, it is well known, there
is the fame provision, and we know it has
been occasionally fufpenctod. What then was
to be dw: in that cafe ? It is provided by
tawnlial the Habeas Corpus shall not iiluc at
ail qil. Before the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania can fay, therefore, that the Habeas
Corpus is suspended, he must shew some act
by which it is declared to be so. This bill
provides only for the arreftation of persons in
certain cases, and it will be competent
for every pcrfon (o arreft-d to obtain a
writ of Habeas Corpus. It wysoow extreme
ly clear, therefore, that this writ iniglu Mill
illiie to the fame extent as before.
The last againft the firft fee*
tion of this bill, is founded on the article
which relates to the prohibition of the migra
tion and importation of persons iyro this couii
iry. Mr. 3. aficed whether, if thisVill pas-
\VOLVME XIV.
fed into law, it would not be io the power C*
'lie several States to admit of the importation
ind migration of periomin the fame way that
liiiy do at present ? This bill provides only,
iltat it any improper or dangerous pprfoiu
'hall be admitted, in order to preserve the
pubiic peac« and fafety, the Prcfident (liall
have power to remove them out of lite coun
try.
If there was any solidity in this obje&ion,
Ihe consequence would oe, that the criminal
laws of the Uniied States which would sub
ject any of these Aliens to inijirifonment, or
other punishment, might be equally charged
with being violations of the Conititntio/i,
, which, according to the gentleman from Penn«
tylvariia, lias reserved all power over Alien!
in the hands of'the State Governments.
Mr. Baldwi* said, whenever a bill wa«
introduced into the legiftature of the Union,
which ran courxer to the conllitution, it wa»
its duty to de£)inea£ting upon it. That part
of the tirfl article ol ffle Srh which
declares " CongrelsYkall have power to pro
vide for (he common defence and general wel
fare of the United States,*' had never beet*
conlidered as a source of legislative power,
a, it is only a member introduced to limit
the other parts of the femeiice, and not ofit-
I'elfa fnbftantive power as will be seen by re-<
cltrring to the worths 6t the ill sentence of the
Bth section. The lie ft 'lance in which it
had ever been attempted to be acted upon,
and no queltioti ever agitated the councils of
the Union more, was, on tlie application of
the Abolition Societies to Co'ngttf? for as a
bolirion of Slavery, the power of Congress to
act upon wh.ch was (aid to be derived froin
these word) ; but after the fubjeft was w?ll
conlidered, it wss decided by a iarge majori
ty, that the words alluded to could not be
relied upon asgiving any feparjte power from
that contained in the other part of the sen
tence-
A gentleman in his eye (Mr. Daylon) re
minded him of another inllance in which thi»
article had been resorted to N for power, witli
jlie fame want of (uccefs. It was in relation
to the ellablilhmentof certain Manufactories,
ill support of which the aid of Government
was applied for. Indeed, if these w : ord«
were to havt the force which it had been at
tempted to give them, all the red of the Con
llitution would be furpluflage. lie could not
have supposed that at this day there had been
1 a dobut on the subject. As to the other clauftf
which had been cited, which was generally
1 called the fwteping clause, " to pals laws !.»
; cafry into eft'edl tlie foregoing powers &c."
before it could have any force, some other
1 clause mud be found to which it i 9 to give
eft'eit.
To adopt the lenfe which gentlemen wish
to put upon the fir.l article of the Bth fe6tion,
would be to do away all ideas of this being *
Federal Gover«ment, and that there arc date
governments in exidence who have their por
tion ot power ; for if all the power which i*
neceflary to " provide for the common de
fence and general welfare," be poflefled by
the Federal Government, all the State Go
vernments mud fall prodrate before it, as
there will be no pow-r left for them to exer
cise. Indeed the doctrine is so extravagant,
<hat he never expefted to.have heard it again
: advanced on this floor.
' Mr. B. thought the ninth feflion forbiding
Congress to prohibit the migration &c. wa»
directly oppofetfto the principle of this bill.
He recollected very well that when this ninth,
feflion ef the Conllitution \' as underconfide
ration in the Convention, the delegates fro til
fotne of the, foutheln dates infilftd that the
prohibitionof the intyoduition of Haves ihoulii
be left to the state governments: it wa»
found expedient to rjiake this pvovilion in thp
cond tution ; there was an objection to the
use of the word (laves, as Congress by none of
t heir afls had ever acknowledged the exigence
of fnc-h a condition. It was it length fettled
on the words as they now (land, " that the
*' migration or importation of such person*
[ " as the several dates (fajll think proper t®
i " admit, fliould not be prohibited till the
" year iSSo2." It was observed by fume gen—
■ tl-'men present that this exprtflton would ex.
end to other persons besides Haves, which
was not denied, but this did not produce any
; alteration of it. Mr. B. had no doubt that if
this bill parted imp ji law, Congress would
! again be applied to by the advocates for .-.a
; abolition of slavery, with rcquetts that the
I Prelident may be authorized to fend these
i persons out of the country, and drong argti
j ments will be uled in favour of the measure.
I He recolletted it was asked on a former occa-'
not), " Stippof* a cargo or leprous person»
, were to be landed in the country, would not
j Congress have the power,to fend theui out of
j ihe country ? Slavery said they is an incup-
I ble leprufy, you surely, tjien, will eradicate
; it r" This (Mfoning, however, did not pre
; vail. TFlere are other mfcli-cfs which might
be done, againli which the federal confiitiiti
on makes no provi/ion. Persons might burn
our towns and (lay our inhabitants. But out
goes upon an idea that tliere art"
Srate Governments who divide (he powers oC
Government wilt the Federal Government.
But gentlemen in speaking on this f'ubjefi,
feeni to forget this, and to suppose thaC
Wisdom is to die with them. His opinion wa
that this business of admitting or banifhimf
aliens l elonged to the State Governments,
and not to the General Government, and he
Ihmild therefore vote for (In King out the fir it
feClion of the hill.
Mr. Dana did net before kuoiv that the
society of Friends were so turbulent a set of
people as to oe- afion all the uneasiness whic'j
the gentleman from Georgia had spoken of.
He wondered so great a dili rder lud not bee.»
more particularly noticed.-- As it hnd not, h'»
appi-ehended the genilemat.'s real had give i
fomewhar of too high a colouring to this,
tranfadtion.
That part of the fit ft aiticle of tie Btli fee
tion of tiie cootlirutioii, which fpcaks ofths
common defence and general welfare, is of 7
political nature, and docs not refer to any in.
ternal regulation, but applies to wh„t relates
to the Union generally. As it Aliens
could it be laid that the individual «; 3 tcl
could make the present regulation! No , they
could only ijiake regulations bottomed 'upon,
their own policy. What relates to the Umo
gtnerally, mult be done by the Government
oflhe United States. When powe. is reserved
by the Conllitution totlie States, it isfoi r-a
fons which are applicable to these States •
and It might be calily seen what was tlie
ground of the copprotriife made in the fifll
article of the 9th fe.'tion. It was cert ■, n!y w itl,
a view of the States securing to themfelVrjtha.
property vh!ch they polliffid. !; - Uia# r«a-tor does not extend to the principles of this
bill, which 4oc snot fay (he Stateslhall not ad
ma the migration of foreigners; but that
where p4rfons have n<tt attained the right ot
c tizewlhip, they (hall be removed, if their
reiidence (hall appear to the Prelidcnt to be
dangerous.
*There is one power, Mr. D. said, inherent
and common in every form of Government,
which is founded upon any rational prinCi
pies of policy, which is, the power of preferr
ing itielf, w iiich implies thenecellary power of
making all laws which are proper for th s pur
pose. thin ar les, whether it is
not confident with that power to pass a law
tor the purpose of removing from the coun
try 'he dele options of perlons .mentioned in
the firft fe£t?on of this bill. Whether this is
the best mode of carrying such a power into
rs not now tlie quefHon.
Ms. D. thought the declamatory harangue
which had been heard from the gentleman
from N. Carolina on the ("anility ot the Con
stitution, was foreign to the urefent
since no one w ill be found to fay he is willing
to violate the conftiturion. The firigle quertion
before the committee is, whether Cpngreft
have the coiitlitutional power to pass the pre
sent bill ; if they have nor that power, no
6ne, he |,refu:ned, would wifli to pass it.
Mr. Allen laid, the object of this bill,
appeared to* be, to enable the President to
aliens out of the United States whose
reii tencc he (hall judge to be injurious to the
pub! peace and fafety. It appeared to him
tha* there ii> for so many liws re
fp< t ting Aliens. He did not believe that a
lean's being bem in England or Germany, is
any j loot 01 his being an Alien friend. He
may ft.lt be an adopted citizen of another
Country, and come here for the worst of puft
fo(es. Htf thought the President ought to
have power over Aliens of every description,
without dittinCtion. He flip poled this bill was
to appertain only to Alien friends, because
there is anotherbill respeCting Alienenemies.
He did not think. Congress ought to legislate
in this way. Provision ought to be made for
the removal of all these persons.
The powers given to the Executive, Mr.
A. said, are of an unlimited, confufed na
ture, and fych as he had never before seen. 1 f
hedeems the reiidence of an Alien dangerous
to the public fafety, the President is to order
his removal. But the bill does not fay Whe
ther any of the Courts are to take cognizance
of the business, and make the removal, or in
what manner it is to be dope. The bill speaks
of Aliens, having been felons, or notorious
fugitives from justice in a foreign country,
frow are these things to be ascertained? Or
how are the perlons of these Aliens to be iden
tiliea ? » e couiti not underftund how this bill
was to operate. He understood the constituti
on to give a right to all persons to be tried
by a jury; but it appeared as if the Judges
were under this bill toa£t summarily.
IV* r. A. thought a law ought to pass au
thoring the Executive of this country, as in
all other countries, to remove all Aiens, of
whatever country, whom he judged d*ig--
rons to the peace of the country. He thought
it wouM'be belt firfi to take up the bill from
the Senate on this subject, and he moved the
committee to rife tor this purpose.
Mr. A. concluded (vith faying that he
wilhed a law to be patted for the pumfhment
oi seditious persons ; but he would h|ve it
embrace other cases—cases of great impor
tance which every day comes before our eyes.
As to the provinons contained in this bill re
speCting seditious (peaking and writing, he de
fied any person to know what was intended
by them. He hoped when Congress pass laws
on this fu bfeet, they would be such as w«uld
be underltood.
Mr. Sew all said, before the question was
taken on the committee's rjfing, he wished to
notice the charges which the gentleman from
Connecticut had brought against the commit
tee who reported this bill. That gentleman
wished the committee'to rife, because he tho't
the till unworthy the attention of the com
mittee of the whole. He wished to have no
dilti'nCtion made betwixt alien friends and a
lien enemies. He (Mr. S.) on the contrary,
was ofopinion, that to take up aliens, merely
as (uch, would be an act unworjhy of any ci
vilized nation whatever; if they are thus
dealt with, it mil ft be because their refrdence
among# us would be dangerous to our own
peace and fafetv. The (elect committee made
a difliitClion betwixt alien enemies and alien
friends. Nor have th'y said that all alien ene
mies lh;» 11 be sent out of the country ; but 1
that persons ot that description who are not
fufpeited of being inimical to the interests ot
this country, fliali be protected. The com
mittee have gone further and said, that aliens,
not alien enemies, who are of such a descrip
tion as that their reiidence amongst us would
be likely to be injurious to the peace and fafe
ty*cf the country, may also be sent away. In
the bill refpectihg alien enemies, discretion is
left with the President to treat them accord
ing to exiitingcircumftances. By the present
bill, aliens render themselves liable to be sent
away, who come here under such disadvanta
geous circumstances of character as to render
their refrdence ainongft us dangerous. As to
the particular manner in which this is to be
done, when the third feition of the bill came
under confederation, it might undergo any a
mendment which might be thought necellary.
In the third felt ion, as it was not desirable
that the President should be continually exer
*ifing the discretionary power lodged in him,
cases are described, where farts are only ne
celFary for ordinary tribunals to fend aliens i
out of the country. But where a difcreuona- ,
ry power was neceflary to be lodged, it is
placed in the President alone j since in the o
pinion of the committee, it would have been
perfectlyabfurd to have lodged a difcretiona- :
ry power over these aliens in a number of dif- <
ferent tribunals. For, in that cafe # an alien !
driven from Maflachufetts or Pennsylvania,
might take refuge in any of tfie other states ; '
whereas if this power was excrcifed by one
man, by one undemanding, it would bealways 1
exercised in the fame way. He thought,
therefore, the bill flood very wellln its pre- i
sent form. ]
Thequeftionon the committee's rising was ,
put and carried, and leave was given to it/to
tit again. Adjd. j
GINSANG,
\ LIBERAL Price will be given for GIN 1
X £ SANG of good Quality, if in atJ
ti:is Month. v Mordeca'i Lewis. ,
julyir |iw
.Bank of Pennsylvania, ,
jut* i
AT a meeting of t v e Directors this day, a dividend
or frxreen doilas on each fhcrc for t'.ic last Ax months
ending the goth ultt«u declared ; which will be paid '
jo tl e Stockholders oi'ibeir legal rcpiefentativei after 6
♦be 13th inflant „ .
JONATHAN SMITH, Ca/bUr, J
ily 3 dug
NOJV LANDING, '
Ytom on beard tin (hip Four i and for sale ,
' „ ' at the Store* of
JESSE ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havanna Molaflcs. \
j<« '3 . " . S
" Laws of the United States.
it
0 Fifth Congrtfs of the United Statu :
1 AT THE SECOND SESSION,
e Begun and h«hi at the city of Philadelphia, in the
n State of Pennsylvania, on Vlonday thothir
teenth of November, one th ufand seven
, hundred and ninety-seven.
- AN ACT
Further t» proteß the commerce of the United
0 States.
Sec ITv " ena ® e d ty the Senate and
J '' 1) House of Rcprefentatives of the
e United States of America, in Congrrfs affem
. bled, That the President of the.United States
1 rtiall be, and lie is hereby authorized to in
- ilruft the. commanders of the public armed
1 veflfels which are, or which (hall be employ-
J ed in the service of the United States, to
\ subdue, seize and take any armed French
: veflcl, which (hall be found within the
> jurifdiftional limits of the United States, or
, elsewhere, on the high seas, and such cap
> tur d vessel, with her apparel, Jims and ap
purtenances, and the goods or efftfis which
Ot all be found on board tlie fame, being
r French property, (hall be brought within
some port of the United States, and (hall be
duly proceeded against, and condemned as
forfeited; and (hall accrue, ad be diftti
buted, as by liw is or (h.'ll be provided re
' fpefting the captures which (hall be made
by the pubic armed vessels of the United
States.
Sec. 2. /Ind be it further enaSed, That
the l ; re!ident of the United States (hall be,
and he is hereby authorized to grant to the
owners of private armed (hips and vtflels of
the United States, who (hall make applica
tion therefor, special commiflions in the
form which he (hall direst, and under the
leal of the United -States ; and such private
aimed vessels, when duly commissioned, as
aforefaid, (hall have the fame licence and
authority for the subduing, seizing »nd cap
turing any armed French vefftl and for the
re-capture of the vessels, goods and effefts
of the people of the United State , as the
public armed vessels of the United States
may bv law have ; and (hall be, in like
manner, subject to such inftru&ions as (hall
be ordered by the President of the United
States, for the regulation of their conduft.
And the commiffionswhich (hall be granted,
as aforefaid, (hall be revocable at the plea
sure of the President of the United States
Sec. 3. Provided, and be it further mailed,
Tbat every person intending to set forth
and emplny nn armed vessel, and applying
for a comm lKon, as aforefaid, (hall producj
n writing, the name, and a suitable de
scription of the tonnage and the
vessel, and name and place of residence
of each owner concerned therein, the num
ber of the crew, and the name; of the com
mander, and the two officers next in rank,
appointed for such vessel ; which writing
(hall be signed by the person or persons
making such application, and filed with the
Secretary of State, or (hall be delivered to
any other officer or person who (hall be em
ployedtodeliver ont such commiflions to be
by him transmit ed to the Secreta-y of
Sta e.
Sec. 4. And provided, and be it further
enailed, 1 hat before any commifiion, as
aforefaid, (hall be issued, the owner or
owners of the (hip or vessel for which the
fame (hall be requested, and the commander
thereof, for the time being, (hall give bond
to the United States, with at lead two re
fponfn:le sureties, not in:erefted in such ves
sel, in the penal sum of seven thousand dol
lars ; or if such vessel be provided with
more than OTie hundred anj fifty men, tSen
in the penal sum of fourteen thousand dol
lars j with condition that the owners, and
officers a d crews who (hall be employed on
board of such commissioned vessel, (hall and
will oblerve the treaties and laws of t!;e Uni
ted States, and the inftriiflipng which (hall
be given them for the regulation of their
conduct ; and will fatisfy all damages and
injuries which (hall be done or committed
contrary to the tenor thereof, by such ves
sel, during her commission, ai.d to deliver up
the fame when revoked by the Piefident of
the United States.
Sec. 5. And be it further enalled, That
all armed Frenfch vessels, together with their
apparel, guns and appurtenances, any
goods or effefls which (hall be found on
board the fame, being French property,
and which (hall be captured by any private
armed vessel or vessels of the United States,
duly comminTioned, as aforefaid, (hall be
foifeited, and (hall accrue to the owners
thereof, and the officers and crewi by whom
such captures (hall be made; and on due
condemnation had, (hall be distributed ac
cording ta any agreement which fliall be
between them ; or in failure of such agree
ment, then by the discretion of the court
before whom fach condemnation (h ill be.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That all
vessels, goods and effefts, the property of
any citizen of the United States, or person
resident therein, which (hall be re-captured,
as af'. refaid, (hsll be rellored to the lawful
owners, up n payment by them, refpeftive
ly, of a jufl and reafonabte salvage, to be
icterm ned by the.mutiial agreement of the
parties concerned, or by the decree of any
court ef the JUnited States having mari
time jurifdiclion, according to the nature of
each cafe : Provided, That such allowance
(ha 1 not belefs than one-eighth, or exceed
ing one-half cf the full value of fwch re
capture, without any dedudtiou. And such
salvage (ball be distributed to and among I
tht owners, officers and crews of the private
armed vellci or velleU entitled thereto, ac
cording to any agreement which (ball he
between them; or in cafe of no agreement,
then by the dtcree cf the court who (kail
determine upon such falvaee.
Sec. 7. And be it further enaded, That
before breaking bulk of any v ffel which
fl-all be captured, as aferefaid, or irther
difpofjl or converfton thereof, or of any ar
ticles 'whii h lhall be found on board the
fame, such capture (hall be brought into
some port of the United Stales, and lhall
be libelled tnd proceeded against before the
difbift co-rt of the fame diftrift ; and if,
after a due course of proceedings, such cap
ture lhall be decreed as forfeited in the
diftri-4 cJurt; or in tbe'circuit co'urt of the
fatne diftrift in the cafe of any appeal duly
allowed, the fame {hall be delivered to the
owners and captors concerned therein, or
lhall be publicly fold by the marshal of the
feme court, as (hall be finally decrted and
ordered by the court : And the fame court,
who (hall have final jurifdittion of any libel
or complaint of a T y capture as aforefaid,
(hall and may decree restitution, in whole
or in part,-when the capture and rcftraiiit
(hall liavebeen made without jolt cause, as a
forefaid ; andifmadewithoutprobablecaufe,
orotherwife unreafonably,m3y order and de
cree darrages and cofis to ihe party injured,
and for which the owners, officers and
crews of the private armed vefTel or vcflels
by which fnch unjufl capture (hall have been
made, and alio such veirel or veflels (ha'l be
answerable and liable.
Sec. 8. And be it further cnalted, That
all French persons and others, who fliall be
found afting on boa d any French armed
( veffcl, which (hall be cap ured, or on board
of any veflcl of the United States, which
(hall be re-capturcd, as afo efaid, (hall be
reported to the co leftor of the port in
which they (hall firft arrive, and (hall be
delivered to the custody of the marshal, or
of some civil or n ilitary officer of the Uni
ted States, or of any (late in or rear such
port ; who {hall take charge for their fafe
keep rig and support, at the expense of the
United States..
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Stealer oj the Houfc of Reprefentativei.
THEODORE SEDGWICK,
President of the Senate,' pro tempore.
Approved, July 9, 1798,
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United Slates.
AN ACT
Limiting tht time within which claims againfi
the United States, for credits on the boots of
the Treasury may beprefented for allowance.
BE it enaded by the Senate and House of Re
prefentativet of the United Stales of A
merica in Congress o/fembted, That all credits
on the books of the Treasury of the United
States, for tranfaftions during the late war,
which, according to the courfeof the Trea
sury, have h therto been dTfchargedbv i(fu
ing certificates of regift red debt, lhall be
forever barredand precluded from settlement
or allowance, unkfs claimed by the proper
creditors, or their legal representatives on
or before the firft day of March, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
■ine. And the Secretary of the Treasury
is hereby required t9 cause this aft to be
published in one. or more of the public pa
pers of each State.
- JONATHAV DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THEODORE SEDGWICK,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, July 9. 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depofitcd among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
READING, (Penn.) July 7.
Wednesday, beinp the fourth nf July, the
anniversary of American Independence, a large
and res, e<9able number of gentlemen of the bo
rough of Raiding convened at the house of Mr
facob Barr, inkeeper, for the purpose of cele
brating the day, where they partook of an ele
gant dinner prepared for the occafian, enjoyed
the utmofl cheerfuleefs and conviviality, and
drank the following toasts :
t. The United States; May they flonrilh in
dependent as aNition, until the Scroll of their
. 'onfiitution (hall be consumed on that day when
'he last trump declares that time (hall be no
more,
x. John Adams, President of the United
rates, the Rock and Strength of our political
Salvation ; May fame waft his Virtues to the
end of time.
3. General Washington, the friend of Man;
May he live to receive from his grateful coun
try a tributeofthankicommenfuratetohisgood
nefs and his greatneft.
4. MefiVs. Pinckncy, Marlhall and Gerry,
our ministers to th« French republic, The'
friends of Independence and true patriots of
America against whom thebafe intrigues and
despicable venality of France have been employ
ed in vain.
5. Alexander Hamilton, tried friend of his
country.
6. Colonel Pickering, Secretary of State ;
May his services in the field and his talents in
the cabinet obtain the thanks and approbation of
his country.
7. General Wilkinfon and the army of the
United States.
8. Captain John Barry, and his brother offi
cers, of the infant navy of the United States j
May their colors fly triumphant on the Ameri
can fe as.
<f. The virtuous members of both Houses of
Congress, who have supported the firm and wjfe
measure. of thV Executive chief Magiftrateand
a speedy reformation to all their oppofers.
10. The militia of Pennsylvania ; May they
ever be found ready to defend their country, as
well against foreign invaders as domeltie foes.
11. Governor ilowcll, and the high spirited
Militia of' New Jerley.
11. Maythef-ons of America never fly herco-
Inrs, but with firmnefs to the lalt gasp support
the American Eagle.
13. Tht inhabitants of Berks county j And
a patriotic representation in the councils of" their
country.
14. May trimmers in politic* obtain what :
tkey r eri;; The contempt and dcteflation of
all good men. ;
13. The liberty cf the PrcS ; May it prove
| i fcocrge to tyrants of every defcrlption, whe
' ther they exercise tb--»r power alter the manner
: of demagogues or o»* u.Tpntt
)6. The day we celebrate ; M*v »t erer in
spire A nierica with the love of Freedom, and be
commemorated by her Sons to the end of time.
VOLUNTEER TOASTS,
By Daniel Cljmer, Charles Ftmms, William
Moore and Samuel I4 r . Morris, efqrs.
I. The American Fair ; May they frown in
dignantly on all th \ who refute to arm for
their.protc«sVton and fight in their defence.
I. The memory of those heroei, who fell in
defence of our liberty and independence.
3. The land we live in ; May the pediferoua
breath of d (organizers be fpecdily extinguished,
and the foul fiend democracy exterminated from
every part of it.
4 The memory of general Wayne, the He
ro of the Western Country, who firft taught tVie
Savage- of America the important lefibn that
the Stroke of the Tomahawk mult give way to
the Push of the Bayonet, and that no etrcat is
inaccessible tr> the Armies of the United St ites.
5. Oliver Elfworth, Chief (uftire of the
United States, the upright Magiftrat? and firm
Supporter of the Constitution and Laws of the
U.tlCB.
6. William Bingham, cfq.; May his manly
Jtjd fpinted example be imitated throughout
the United States.
7. Robert G. Harper, efq ; The friend of
finrnefs and fpiritcd advocate of energetic mea
sures. _ t
8. The Reading Blues.
9. The dilctples of Janus, may they be de
spised by all partie?.
10 May the punic faith of France-excite uni
versal execration.
11. Governor Jay of New-York and those
patriotic citizens, by wnom he was fupportcd in
his late election.
12. Msy the American Eagle pounce his Ta
lons into the Skull of every enemy to the Inde
pendence of the United States»
■After retiring.
Judge Ru(h —our worthy chairman ; May
he long live to preside at the annual celebrations
of this day.
DEDHAM, July 5 .
FOURTH OF JULY.
Men of the'moft correft information, who arc old
enough to remember the progrrfi of our rtvolbtion,
allure us, that such a patriotic spirit as appears at pre
frut has not been awakened finer '74. The young
men especially, now as well as at that time, are high
ly fedeial and patriotic. As a proof of ihe renewal
of t«uc American sentiments in a part of the country
where very gro& delusion and jacobinism has, per
haps, too much prevailed, we notice with pleasure
the celebration of the birth.day of American inde
pendence in this town, by a number of gentlemen
of this and the adjoining towns. The company din
ed together. A truly federal, patriotic, elegant and
fpirired oration, by John Lathrop, jun. Esq. was re
ceived with great applause—aster which the follow
ing federal toasts were given, under the difeharge of
cannon.
t. The Day—May every anniversary of indepen
dence give a year'« growth and ftrcngth to the patri
otism that will defend it.
2 Our free republican conftitution —As that secur
ed our Union, may our Union secure the constitution.
3. Liberty and good government —May we never
be compelled to make the experiment of monarchy
or anarchy !
4. JOHN ADAMS', President of the United States
—May his Country* never deny him,that reward,
which will be beflowcd by his conscience and by pof
teiity.
5. George Washington—May his happiness
be as serene as his glory.
6. The Vicc-»Prefident and Ctjpgrefs —May they
never forget their duty, nor linger in performing it
7. The Governoi (long life to him} and Common
wealth (God bless it !)
8. Ttmothy Pickering, Secretary of State—May
our enemies find the American fwoid as keen- as his
pen.
9. Oliver Wolcott, Secretary of the Treasury
May the public ever keep its faith as pure as his integ
rity.
10. James M'Henry, Secretary at War.
it* Mr Stoddard, Secretary of the Nany—By
ihe protedion «f a navy may our comme ce grow
rich, and by the riches of commerce may our navy 1
be strong.
la. May our bitter experience teach us to accept
foreign protection with reserve, and to furnifh it for
ouilelves without any.
13. May the citizens bytheirunion convince the
foe, that our energy is equal to their inlolence.
14. The Clergy —As they are the friends of learn
ing, rirtue and order, may the votaries of these ever
be their friends
15. May we never dishonor the mrmory of those
heroes, who were too lavish of their blood in our
cause bv bring too frugal of ourq^vn.
16. Profperty ro agriculture, manufa&ures, trad«,
navigation and the filheries.
A number of volunteers were also given, among
which a>e the following :
1. The memory of those who fel' in our cause
а. Qur Envoys to France—May rheir reception at
home be as distinguished as their ill treatment abroad.
3 Peace with fafety and honor, or war with vigor
4 The heads of departments —May tre depart
ments never be ufurptd by committees without heads.
5. The fallen teoubl cs—May they rile and take
vengeance on their oppreflb'S
б. If we mull pay the French tribute, may it be
in our way.
7. Freedom of fpeech---Let the revilers of our
government have rope enough
8. For honest men of all parties the qord of friend,
ship; for traitors and foreign spies, the hangman's
cord !
The day closed with an elegant ball.
An elegant federal oration was delivered at Med
field by Mr. William Cunningham, which received
the highest approbation of a large atfembly from that
and the adjoining towns A largfc company dined
together, and the toasts given were replete with fed
eral and patriotic sentiments.
At Boftnn an oration was delivered by Jofiah
Quincy, Esq.—At Providence bv Samuel W. Bridg
ham, Esq.
Covemment have ordered a large edition of the in
ftru&ions 10 and dispatches from the envoys, to be
printed and diftrtbuted. While the Freuch rulers
are destroying prefles and depriving thcii citizens of
the means of information, cur government is driving
to increase the medium of its conveyance. A con
trait highly honorable to us. An extensive knowl- j
edge of the truth is our Fame.
United States' Salt Works.
AN adjourned meeting of Gentlemen inclin
ed to promote the eftablifhrnenfof Salt-
Works on Delaware Bay, on the plan proposed
by the Subscriber, will beheld at the City Tav
ern on Friday next at eight o'clock.
Books containing the description and plan of
jhe proposed eflablifhment may be had at Mr.
Young's, cerner of Second and Chefnut-ftreeta,
and at Mr. Shaws, *.20 Chefaut-ftreet.
JAMES FENNELL.
July 11 3t
TAKJE NOTICE.
In Augtift lad was pledged for
pafTage and freight from New-York to PhiJddelphi —
3 Chcfta- —e Teirces—aud a Sacks—-Containing
feather Beds, Brown Irish Linncn, Mens* and Wo.
mens* wearing appar<l, &c. scc. &c.—which will be
fold at this phce by au&ion on the »6 h inftirt (if not
before redeemed) for the charges.
JOHN VAN E\l BURGH,
For the proprietors of ihe Liccof Stages by the rout
of Aordentown.
Bordentown, july it. 51
%\)t <sasette.
PHILADELPHIA.
THURSDAY EVENING, Jolt it.
r
CONGRESS.
Yeflerday, the House of Reptefentativet of
the United States, took up the amendment!
of the Senate to the bill authorizing the Pre
fidrnt of the United States to borrow money
for the Public Service. One of these propos
ed to (Irike out the w <rd» which give the Pro
ficient the power to borrow fueb afum of money
as beJballjudge necejjary, and to limit the sum
to five milium of dollars. This amendment
was concurred in, afrer a proportion of Mr.
Harper to amend it by making it seven mil
lions, infiead of five, had been negatived.—
The second amendment proposed toftrikeout
a provision from the bill which fbpulates that
the Government (hall have liberty to redeem
whatever money is borrowed within fifteen
years. The hoi'fe to this amend
ment, 19 v»tes only being in tavanrof it.—
The Senate afterwards informed the hsufe
that'they infilled Upon it, and a committee of
Conference was appointed.
• The house next took up the amendments of
the Senate to the bill to lay and colleft a Di
rest Tax within the United States. The
principal of these amendments proposed
flrike out, in the description of houses pro
posed to be taxed, these words, '< at more than
! one hundred and not more than five hundred dol
lars, and tuoo-ienths t for (he purpose of in
i ierungfour-ientbi ; the effect of which would
, have been to have laid an equal tax of four
tenths ofone per cent. on all houses under the
value of one thoufar.d dollars, instead of hav
ing them in two clafles (as in the bill) the
lowed paying two-tenths, the higher three
tenths of one percent, and of lowering the
rate 011 all houses above the valueof 3,ooodol
lars. This amendment was negatived, there
being only 17 votes for it. The other amend
ments were gone through, and the relult sent
to the Senate.
A bill was received from the Senate to en
courage the capture of the armed velfels of
France by the private armed velTels of the
United States, by allowing a bounty upon the
veflcls taken, in proportion to the numberof
guns which they carry. Mr. Harrisok
moved to poflpone the confideratlon of this
bill until the next feflion. This motion was
negatived 38 to 31, and the bill was com
mitted.
Mr. Harper called up the report on the
fubjeil of balances due from the debtor dates,
the conliderationof which Mr. Allen mov
ed to poffpone till next felfion of Congress.
This motion, after fonie difcuflion, was ne
gatived, 10 votes only being for it. The
house then went into a committee of the
whole on the fubjeft. The report was agreed
to, and a bill was reported in pursuance of it,
which was committed.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole on the bill from the Senate for
altering the time of the next meeting of Con
gress ; when Mr. Harper moved to strike
out the firfl Monday in Ko<vember (the time,
fixed by this bill for the next meeting of Con
gress) for the purpose of inferring the firfl
Mo nday in Oflober. This motion was warm
ly opposed ; and Mr. Bayard, with a view
to reject the bill, and dt~ course leave the next
meeting of Congress to take place on the con
(litutional day (the firfl Monday in Decem
ber) moved that the committee rife. The
motion wascarried, 44 votes being in favour
it, leave was reftifed to the committee to fit
again, and on the question, " Shall ibis till be
redd a third lime ? it was negatived, there
being only 21 votes for it. The bill falls of
course.
The Speaker laid before the house a let
ter and (latement from the Treasury Depart
ment, requiring a farther appropriation to da,
fray the expences of the Oltice of the Naval
Department, and for other purposes, ofi6,-
720 dollars. It was referred t« the commit
tee of ways and means to report by bill ore
therwife.
The President of the United States inform,
ed thelioufc, that he had approved and lign
ed an a£t for the further protection of the
commerce of the United States; an act for
the valuation of houses and lands and for the
enumeration of slaves ; and an att /becifying
the time within whicb claims upon the Ire«-
fury of the United States may be presented
for allowance.
W.I nthe Yeas on the paflfageof the Sedi
tion Bill, in yelterday's paper, for Hannaread
Bofmer.
' •
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
REFLECTING on thejiubliccalamitiet
that threaten us, and lamenting the depra
vity of fomc of our countrymen who would
cowardly fell their birth right for a mess of
pottage, and give up their children to be
flavei, rather than (land up like men in their
defence : Ruminating on these these thingt
I could not but be afflifted at their :#poftacy,
when I fell asleep, and had the following
WONDERFUL DREAM j
I thought a neighbour of mine, who had
long borne much of 'he weight of govern
ment on his shoulders j one who cpuld par
rot /He box the cotnpafs with curfts on the
President, as readily as any one I know—
This neighbour invited me to go and spend ,
the evening with some ofhisintimate friends.
I told him that his friends vrere not of my
acquaintance : but after much felicitation
I consented. From a building, on each fide
of a narrow ftrett that we parted, there is
sued a compound of vile smells, which he
took notice that I did not.at all rthfh.—
From this building, fays he. proceeds our
cleanliness and our light I—And that is
equally neceflary ; for the horse is a noble
animal, and very ufeful to c nvey intelli
gent quick in times of cleft ion I beg
ged him to explain. This building fays
he, ia a Soap-boiler and Tallow-chandler's
(hop ; that is a Stable : And though the
smells from tlttin are ofienfive to si rangers,
cujlom has rendered them, to me, fweetfr
than Arabian gales. Shortly after, passing
the firft and second centinels, armed caf-a
pee, with dnng forks, we were ushered into
the room, which as a room was well enough, i
hut it did not appar like the place my fancy I
had drawn of a Harmony Hall. Nor
yet did it reach my ideas of Pandemonium ;
tho' fufficient signS cxifted of ftshavisg late
ly, risen cut of chaos. I recfilledl to have
seen, some years ago, Mr. Peale's reprefen
tatio.iof Pandemonium rising up "at the
found of dulcet fwcet," thro' a vast column
of fxoke, interspersed with " horrid fhapctand fights nnlioly," and now and then a
jlafli of lightning ; but the building I was
in, with my friend, was by no means equal
to that—to that where the primeval devilt
held debate. Nor were the guests to be
compared, either for number or refpeda
bility, to those described by Milton. They
might, however, have been some cf their
degenerate poflerify ; and in one part of
their charaft*r they bore a strong resem
blance to their ancello 9, for they were
Sf iritle/i Sunk, Fallen ;
As I could plainly fee when the five lamps
were lighted. These five lamps in th>- hall
wirefo conltruQedas to be on-and indivijihlc.
From thtfe lamps iifued a sudden glare of
lrght, which gave the countenances of the
afftmbled fraternity a momentary gleam of
hope; but some of them ftartng too near
got their eye-lalhes singed off in such a
iriglllful manner, that the others remained
at a more refpe&ful dillance, highly chop
fallen.
When I had cbferved who were prefer t,
it was my intention to have given a detail
of the tranfa&iou during this feflion of the
£): van, bur the terror infpi'cd bv the great
oaih prevents. ThiVerrible oath was given
by the prime minijler of the Divan. A per
fen of a genteel figure, well proportioned ;
and whose address was more smooth and iri
fmuating than was his who psrfuaded Eve
to e«t
The j-u)t cf that forbidden free
IVb ,si n Trial tajle brought dcatf: into
The nui'ld nnd allour <uo, s.
He ttond with a huge tome open in his
left hand, and in his rii;ht a large roll con
tain 113 a long scroll oT ames. Each one
kr.eeli»g,fworebythe life of Buonaparte, &
thearmyof England, to dick by one anttSer
to the lalLjand reveal tothing, on pain of be
ingtermented w.th I.aw;o( being pri;,.;d all
over with Blaii;of-hav rg his tongue
cutout *ilh sharp Sheers, of being smothered
to death with Scotch Snnff and then buried
aliVe with frdh Horje dung.
Juil as it was csming to be my turn to
the great oath (which,by the by, I had
d lerniitied not tq take pain of all-the
ab-vc ctirfts) there was heard a terrible
lloife like as it were of a multitude of horses
preparing for battle—Such snorting and
thumping, and whinnering, and kicking,
and tramping, as made the whole fraternity
stare I When suddenly, put Ihot one of
the divan from the hall, and no more oaths
could be administered till his return.
I could now plainly discover, what I had
long fufpefted, that there was a kind of in
vijibte cord, which held the whole divan fad
to a dreadful gigantic Jive headed monjler at
a great diitance from them ; and each mem
ber of the fraternity were connefted to the
divan by small visible lines, such as bajling
threads, pack-threads, -wax-enJc, thrums, £s*e.
but in such a curious manner, as, that when
the monster a great way off, pulled the in
vifiblecord, all the members felt the force
of the pull in such a manner, us to make
now and then oi-e »f thejr. call out to '• flack
a little," for they were choking. And
one time the whole fraternity were ina buttle
and I could observe the whole divan was
anxiously making Jignt to the monster to
" cafe off, for God's fake to ease ofP' or
they should be all (Iraagled. And for fear
the monster wou'd not fufficieotly compre
hend the force of their signs. I understood
they had difffttched ttvo couriers, bir«L of
their own feather, with orders to fly quick
to the " Den of Thieves" and there, in the
name of all the foris of Belial, fall down be
fore the great bead, and must humbly beg
of him, to stay his appetite a little longer
•with frogs, and fych other food as he has
been accußorxud to feed on, until the Uni
ted States should be better prepared ; for
that thty had discovered something that
might lie heavy on his stomach, orftickin
hivivind-pipe, if he pcrfifted in swallowing
us just now.
I mull rot forget to mention, that I took
notice of a very great number of ends, (of
ihofe small lines) hat ging out in all direfti
ons from the divan. From each of these
ends a member had broken away, and made
his escape, till the whole fraternity, which
wa3oncea» numerous as Pharaoh's frogs,
was now reduced to a molt infignificar.t num
ber of molt iuligriificant beings.
The absent member of the divan now re
turned, after having quelled the riot, which
he infermed them was occasioned by Buce
pha'us' breaking lcofe. and proceedingmc.il
wantonly to commit a horrid aft of violence
on the borly of an elegant, tight young
Filley from the antient dominion ; lately in
troduced by a mod honourable member who
can fee but only on one fide.
Thry now proceeded with the great oath,
which I peremptorily refufed taking—when
a dout well enoug 1 looking nr-an swore if
I did not take the oath he wouldroll a coach
wheel ov. r me, till I was as full of lumps as
a new tire. Another who had more of .1 Ja
cobin Ipok, declared he would fwalh me a
bout in hct uut/r till my hair was all matted
together like a felt. Another swore by St.
Grifpin if I did not comply he would few
tip my month, and advanced with his all.
Their grimaces becaete more violent, and
fearing the coofeqiiences I broke from them,
attfl made tor the door ; when a lufly raw
bo:.ed fellow met me with a great biglhelsly
a"d fwpre by Jafus if I did not
ly t,ike the oat ihe would bate me till I
ouid not fee to to count five. It is noth
ing at all honey, fays he, b it a few words ;
nothing at all a'moll you ean take it well e
m.ugh inun ; but fi.iding me obdiuatc, he
raised his oal Jtick and gave me a blow on
the head, heavy enongh to split the thick
etl (kull in The room. This rallied my wan- (
dering senses ; each of which retu red to (
its proper ttation, and prefontly I found my.
fdf wide awake : Not in Heil among trait
ors j not in Pandemonium with a broken (
pate ; but in my own bed, greatly rejoiced
X must co' fefs, ih-r' femewhat in a tremor. ]
i would not trouble you with this, or any ;
ofher dream (if mine, were it iot to (hew (
you, Mr. Fenro, and to !hrw the world, ,
that, whether f/eeping ot making, lam lt;ll '
-<tf« Emmy !a TraiUrr. k
" BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
al
h . BOSTON, July 7 .
« c»pt. Abrami arrived here from
i Cadiz, <0 days :il formi, t\at Lord St. Vin
cfcnt Hi.l continues oIT that ptacr« and lo efFcc
|r tually Modules the port, that no vefTelt can go
in or out, without his permiflion. The Spanish
J I armada is ft»II he'd in durance vile ; but it wa3
1- reported, that his 2ord£ip and Don Maflerado
hid lately had conferences together The
tongue of rumor wjs u-hifpering *ejfociatioas
„ between Great-Brittin an 1 Spain. Peace be-
U tu'aen France and Portugal had not taken place
NEW YORK, July 11.
further Tr (inflations fro~n Paris papers recei
vedby the Fox, Gardiner, from Bourdeaux.
a LIVOURNE, April 16.
j ■ A.n Englifti piivateer has brought into
this ptirt a French prize. It is a large Tar
| tane loaded with oil, from port Maurice
t bound to Trieste. It It hard that the French*
.j | Government which is occupied in (hutting
ke the ports of the Mediterranean against her
j enemies, should fuffer Tufcany to serve them
n . asylum. The Rear Admiral Larouche
j lefr this yesterday for Lncques, Florence
| and Rome. We are afTurod he is charged
to procure supplies for the French Marine.
* .
ROME, April 13.
The council of war of the firft dvifion
have condemned to drath Citizen Charrier,
chief of batallion, and attached to the Etat
is Major of General Cevoni, for pillage and
1. dealing silver and other precious effedts tak
ie en from the palace of the Due del Geflo,
5c and found tFie palace Doria,where gener
r al Cevoni 1 dgrs, by Pierre Gue!fucc w aid
». decamp, and Jean Papi, a domedic,' all at-
II tached to the fame General. The sentence I
te declares that these tw6 la!l are accomplices
d in the theft, and in consequence (hall be ar
d retted and judged according to law.
0 SEMLIN, April ii.
d 1 The siege of Widin it is said has com
ie menced, and that the entrenchments round ]
le that place are already taken by the tre the- i
;s ry of a prisoner, who, to obtain favour,
d has disclosed all Paffawan Oglow's plans of
r, defence. The fame letters suppose, that if
y all the conspirators can unite ar.d aft in con
if cert, the Ottoman throne will be overturri
s ed.
d ARAU, Aptil 23.
At the fitting of the Grand Council on
1 the 12th, a rneifag; was received, in which
t the Directory informs, that the Englifti
. Minider had fequeltered all the funds be
e longing to the Swiss. The Direftory de
t mands, by way of reprisal, that it arrests
. all the funds which are due to the English
1 by the Swiss.
By the Draper—Con tinughi h
I From the ibNDON GAZETTE.
1 Admiralty-Office, Ma: *tb, '9B.
. Copy of a letter frcm captain John Telmayne
j Rodd, commander of his majejly's Jloop Scor
pion, to Evan Nepean, cfq. dated in the riv
er Humber, April 30, 1798.
I have the honor of Acquainting you for the
information of my lords eommiflioners of the
admiralty, that hi» majesty's (1/op (he Scorpion
under my command, Flamborotigh Head,S.W.
• between two and three miles, with on the
i6rh inflant ard captured the Batavian Republic
bug Le Courier, pierced for twelve ind mount
ing fix four pounders, Ind a number of fvvivels
• commanded by Lieut. John Yfbrands and man
ned with thirty men, failed eight days before
from Helvbetfluys, ai.d taken the La-k brig, of
. Whitby, coal laden, which the Scorpion re
took. I have the honor to be, Of,
J. T. RODD.
7ekmachus, Plymouth-found, May 1,'98.
Sin,
; Yefterd ay, in his inajefly's cutter un
der my command,clofe in with the Hill of Port
hod, I tell in with and captured, after a chafe
• of twelve hours, La Sam Soiici French priva
teer luggar, mounting one twelve pounder car
ronade and two brass fours, and tvventyifeven
men. She failed from La Hogue the night be
fore, ar.d had not taken any thing.
. J have the honor to be, £SV.
THO. NEWTON.
Admiral Sir Peter Parker, Bait. 13c.
We nnderrtrnd that government has received
very certain advice that the French and Vene
tian fleets in the Mediterranean are at sea. It is
the knowledge of this circumstance that caused
Lord St. Vincent to leave the Tagus at only four
hours notice. He failed to the fo-ithw.ird, and
is probably gone to watch the Outof Gibraltar
as wfll as Cadiz, which fr >m their proximity,
he can d:> wjh one and (he fame force. His
ltirdfhip's fleet cenfifts' of the following (bipi:
GVHS.
Ville de Paris 110 Admiral the Earl St.
Vincent,
Capt. Sir A. Calder,
Do. G, Grey
Ptince George 98 ltear Adm. Sir W.
Parker,
Capt. W. Bo wen.
Princefa Royal 98 Rear Adm. Sir. J.
Orde,
Capt. J. Drape
London 98 Capt. J. C Pu vis.
Blenheim 90 Rear Adm. T. 1..
Frederick,
Capt. R. Campbell- t
Namur 90 Capt. Sgtheby.
Gibraltar 80 Capt. W. H. Kelly.'
Var.guard 74 Rear Adm. Sir H.
Nelson,
Capt. E. Berry. V
captains. t
Alexander 74 A. J. Ball t
Audacious 74 D. Gould <]
Bellerophon 74 H. I). Datby y
Colossus 74 G. Murray 1
Cuiloden 74 T. Towbridge t
Defence 74 \V. Brown <j
Excellent C. Collingwood 1
Gotiah 74 T. Foley *'
Heftor 74 P. Alpin
Majestic 74 G. B. Weftcott I
Minotaur 74 T. Lewis I
Ori. n 74 Sir J. Saumarex v
Swiftfnre 74 B Hallowell 1
Thefcos 74 4<. VV, Miller t
Warr.or 74. K. Savage
Zealous 74 S, Hood
Lean er yo T. B. Th-vpfon
Gorgon 44 R. Wi'Uijmi
' Dolphin, (hof. fh.) 44 J. Nefb't
Caroline 36 W. Luke
Emerald 36 T. M. WMler
1 Flora 36 A. Wilfun
1 1 halia 36 Lord H- Powlett
> El Mahonifa 34 J. Giffard
Alcmene 32 G. Hope
Blanche 34 H. Hotfym
I.i'vely 32 J. N. Morris
Terpsichore 32 W. H. Gage
Aurora 2® H. Gi'gby
Camel (flore fiiip) 24 Joh'i Lee
LaßonneCitoyenn?2o K. Retalick
Corfu 18 B. Jam s
La Mutine 14 T M. Hardy
Pluto 14 M. F. Edgell
Speedy 1 y H. Dnwnman'
Uliundtr (bomb) 8 I. O. Bland
Wc expeft every moment so hear of »n engage
ment ihe two combined fleet* and Lord St.
Vinctnt.
The following is a statement of ill?Dufch n.-ml force,
from a letter from in ofßetr ia admiral
Onflow's fl«*ct :
MARS DIEP, OR OUTER R <>.\D.
Wafhingtou 74 Heldrr 3*
Leyden Venus *a
Cerberus *4 Minerva 84
Ba'avier 54 Leopard 34
Fu "e 36 Wankfamhicd a 1
Ambuscade 0.«5 Enkvfea 84
Heftor 36
And four formerly East Indiamen.
On the T.r\el island, one hundred and sixty Dutch
troops and twenty French hulfors, and a few lignal
gun:;
r NEAR Dill,
Befchemer 54 Phoenix % 24
Broderchap Andone 64
Mars 40 ftfS pounders)
AT MMSTKRBAM,
I One line of battle (hip, ready to come down to be
1 ] fitted,
i AT UEL VEOTSY LVS, one.
fiy fASSACE—DoIphin, 24 guns.
AMSTERDAM,
States Genera!— .74 gun, to repair.
Only 200 troops in the neighborhood of the 11 eld
er. 36 pitce* of heavy ordnance mounted, those in
j bad order, and not fit for' service, and no French
J troops there.
1 *—
BALTIMORE, July 10.
It is reported, and we hope not without
foundation, that captain Truxton, of the
Constellation frigate has taken a French pri
vateer, and she is on her way the bay.
The honourable James M'Henry, arri
ved in town by this day's, stage : he starts
in the mcrning, we understand, for Mount
Vernon. On his return to the ftat of go
vernment, he will give our fortification a
review,
ALEXANDRIA, July 7.
It was reported in town lafl evening, on infor
mation received from a refpefiahle pilot, whose
young men, being out at lea, spoke a fchoontr
from North-Caroiir.a, that on Thursday week
the (hipLexington, capt. M'Kenzie of this port
■M been taken by a French privateer, that had
been lying off Currittick for several days. The
Carol na schooner alio fyoke by the priva
teer, and would have been fraternized had her
cargo been worth an embrace.
■ ■ >N '
Three Britilh men of war anchored in Lynn
haven Bay on Thursday week I all.
WILMINGTON, (Del.) July 0.
HORRID SUICIDE, at Ncwcaftle, in
this State, July 6, '9B.
On this day, about two o'clock, P. M.
a stranger, who had arrived here on the 3d
ir.ftant, jn one of the p«jket-boats from
Philadelphia,J put an instantaneous period
to his exifttnee, by the discharge of a pistol
He behaved rationally uatil ytfte.day even
ing. On being called this morning, he re
fulcd to come down from his chamber, al
ledging, in an incoherent manner, that two
persons had constantly followed him, wiih
an intent to murder him, and that he was
sure they were watching for him. I'erfua
fionsto prevail with him were in vain : and
bis having discharged two poltols during
the night, and showing other symptoms of
a disordered mind, made people very cauti
ous of approaching him—he bei'g likewise
in futh actuation, thatJiecould not be seen.
About two o'clock, a discharge of a pi
flol v.as heard, when the room door being
forced open., he was found weltering in his
blood. Theinftrument of death had been
charged with large, (hot, and had aim ft en
tirely torn away his chin and nose, laying
open, his heaJ in a moll (hocking manner.
The coroner immediately held an In
quest—and on_examining his trunk, no ve
ltige eotilj Ue found of his name, or place
of rcfidence, A number of small packages
of different kinds of medicine, with a quan
tity of powder and large (hot, were found
among ft his baggage. His clothes were
few : a calico morning gown, a blui; cloath
coat, black (i:k veft,and nankeen pantaloons
were Ihe principal part. On two memoran
dums of a recent date, were mentioned in
black lead, '• Mrs.Weifenfels, Jones' wharf,
2 (lips above the Coffte-houfe,No 73Court
land." [Suppol'ed to be in the city of New-
York.] The inlide of a small weight box,
was marked " Einry.V A new hat was mar
ked " Samu;l Bifpham, of Philadelphia."
He had mentioned his having come from
Louisville, in G orgia. Was rather above
the middli si ze—daik complexion, and hair
—perhaps from 40 to 50 years of age.
CHARLESTON. June 16.
The information given in lalt Wednesday's
paper, refpe&ing Mr. Dupont's no: having
been received by the government of the U::i
tid States, we are since informed, was not
quite correft. Mr. Letombe, the cotlful
xeneral of France in Philadelphia, on Mr.
Dupont's arrival from this place, wrote alet
ter to the secretary of ftatc, in which he re
quested an «*equator for his successor, Mr.
Dupont, and a paflport for himfelf to leave
America.
No answer having bees given to this letter,
Mr.Luombe, accompanied by Mr. Dupoct,
h. a a conference wi:h the secretary of ilate,
who informed them, that th.j PrehdeiK of the
United State-, had direiM him to i lorm
them, verbally, that he had determined n"t
* .
I to rec:ire or'acknow'edge any now agent
Vom the Hepublis of Frar.cf, until he had
( rrcrived definitive accounts.from our envi.ys
| in Frarcr, refpefling their nrgr>eiation ; and
jhe added, t!;al he reqtiecied to fay to Mr
1 I.eti mbe, t at it was. thePrefideat't orders,
that he ou!d not attempt 11 exerc fe any
of his cnnful'jr fiinfticns, without leave from
the sri fidei't. \ -
Mr. Letombe hearing nothing ofhis pas
. sport , wrote again to the secretary for it,
ard in"the letter reiterated his request for the
I exrquator for Mr. Dupont. Shottly aft r.
j the paflport for Mr. Letomb wa< left.at his
houfr, under a blank cov.r and, direfted to
Mr. Letombe.
In copfequence of this refufal to be ac
knowledged, .Mr. Dupont took passage im
mediately for France. Mr. Letombe was to
follow in a few days.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Juir 12.
A letter frtw Dublin of the I Its May, received
hv a gentleman of ;bi» city, nuntibi.s th-it the
price of American Bank .Stock «■
above par.
Governor Jackson, by Prochniaiion, his inter,
di&ed the landing in Georgia ol black* and mm-it
toesfrom St. Domingo.
A letter dated JParis, May 5 (fay* the Aurora)
informs, that the iqua tm of Ibip?, which was
for some time at anchor mi the res of Aj.ccio,
had put to fca with a Mr winj on the sth ipril.
Thisfqurdron wasto-nroled of 7 Ih'ps of the Hue,
5 frigate*, a sloops and 9 large transports hnving
on board a nninber of mechanicans and n itur lif;*,
6000 land troops, 900 arti!l«ri(t., and a comp:. te
park of iielil artillery; i*eir destination supposed
to be the Ead «r Weil Indies. ItisvCrf probable,
"tiia! thisfquadron will accomplish the objeil of the
much talked of Egypt expedition, not indied by
d'ggiog a canal, nut by failing round the Cape of
Good Hope, to the aflillanccof Tippo Saih.
The remainder ol thfc French Mediteranran
confilling of 26 Hiips of the line, 19 frigates
and ;45 other armed (hips and tranfporcs. was ex
pedled to have put to sea about the end cf Apulor
early in May.
[ Wa /hall fee how much truth there 19 in the above.]
MORE REVOLUTIONS.
The Italian Gazettes (late, that the King of Sar
dinia dispatched, on the 17th ultimo, an extraor
dinary courier to Count Balti.no, hi. AmbalTador
at Pari», charging him toinfarm the Direflory that
the country was again menaced witji revolutionary
meafurei, «rd praying him to inform him of the
intentions of the Directory 011 the fubjeft, as the
king of Sardinia is determined voluntarily to abdi
cate his throne, if such nmft be hii lot.
By private letters from France (fays a London
paper of May 4) we learn, that Mr. Pinckney,
one of the American Coumiffioneri, has been or
dered »o quit the territory of France, and had in
consequence gone to Bourdeaux, to endeavor to
procure a paflage for America.
Mr. Pinckney is a man who was disposed to
vindicate and support the intcreftsot his country,
confequcntly was particularly obnoxious to the ru
lers of France. Mr. Gerry, another of the Com
mjffioners, whose fentimeHts are accommodating,
remains at Paris, but it is generally supposed the
American government will not he disposed to
brook the iufult ot the difgraceful difmilfal of a
Commiflioner, who was able and willing to main
tain its honor and its interests, or to countenance a
man avowedly devoted to a nation that has for
some months pall been carrying on the moll de
termined hollilities againll the
The return of Mr. PiucUuey to America, itisfup
posed, will create a very lltong lenfation in that
countiy, where the French influence has long been
nn (he decline. (N. y. Gar.)
Fellow Citizens,
i-'HE air.:ciation of citizens aboTe the
age p ifcribed by law for military
duty met, agreeably to adjournment, at
Duuwoody's lavertlon Frtdiv the 6th July
1798, when Charles Biddle, Esq. wai cal
led to the Chair, and Levi Hollinpfworlh-
Secretary.—'yio minutes of the hit meet,
ing being read, the committees of liie fev«
ral wards of the city and liberties were cal
led upon to report. Southwark,
ffrcet, New Market, Dock, V/afr.ut,
nut, Midsilc, N'.rtb, Upper and Low
er Delaware "Wards made reports of
their progress in obtaining fubferiptions, al
-1 edging that the warmth of the weather, and
other canf-s had presented their complear
isg the miflion aili^ned'them. ( Several yf
the committees of wards not attending and
others making but partial reports, the meet
ing adjourned to Wcdnefday the 2,jtb July,
at h»r* past 7 o'clock, to meet at Dnnn o:-
dy's tavern, at which time and place it is
earnelUy rcqjielled that the gentlemen no
minated on the committees of wards will be
punftual in their attendance, and, having
firft gone round their refpeftive wards f.,r
fignatu es, m ke their final report.
C:IARLES BIDDLE, chairman.
Levi Hblßngfwot th, £«<•'ry.
The laudable design of ih's alTociation
must be ob ious 'o'all well disposed ciliz&s
when .ts principles usderllood.' Ihe
two objects contemplated are, firft To'give
confidence to our militia, (hould they be
called from heme on aftua! service, that their
families will be attended to during their ab
sence and such relief administered to them
as the nature and "a e of the cafe may re.,
quire. And, as the affociator, reside in their
leveral wards and neighbourhood of the ci
ty, this duty may be attended to with faci
lity and promptness by them.—The fecoad
is to a d the civil police in support of order
and good government, in cafe it should be
required in the absence of the militia and
volunteers. Many of the affoc-'ators are too
ancient and infirm to bear arms, other* have
religious scruples on that point; but it is
hoped and believed that none will refufe or
negleft to fublcribe to fa benevolent an as
sociation, in which ftich parts onlv will be
affigr.ed to them as the llate cf their consti
tutions and coufcicr.ccs may with propriety
enable them to fulfil.- "The returns made
from such wards as ha»e been fully attended
to are numerous and truly refpefiable.
i he United Slates bug Sophia arrived at
Hr.v e, ana not at Courdeaus, as mentioned
ytfte. day—but vtoat day is r»0! knewn.
c * ° ff i* u t 9 yrjy
gazette M<yftii\~£ LIST.'
port of Philadelphia!
arrived. *
3chr. Trial, H»nri. ."Icxi.dn'a 1
Little 8.-tfejr, Welfli, Richm .i d id
Lagle, R binfin, d„
Wiaficl* Packet, M'Neain, Naffolk e
El 7.3, KelluiT!,' J) u .
ShtpNeftor, Rog.n,. i.iVrpool
«vn; Sally, Callender, TerrertfTe 42
Schr. Ruby, Rich, BoAoh 7
* CLEARED.
« r I? *t? 7 ' Rufl " e!1 ' Hamburg
Schr. Nancy, Wilfoo, G. Town C.'
Brijrl'ol'y, Howard. Ha»ant,a
Schr. Mart la & Mary, Wright, N. York
Betsey, Cifwtll, Bollon
oloop Laura, Barker, N. York
The United States frigate lay at the low
er end of Bombay Hook lait Tuefdir even
mg.
Arrived at the Fort the brig f.ufannah,
Lewi«, Havannah, 14 day*, left there on
2Jth uli. the v
Ship Harry, Ehrenflrom, of Philadelphia
to fail in | t day*
• _ /VctivCj Harper, (J(j t 20
i lii ig I omega Moreton, . d... 12
\ Flora, Morey, do,
Schr. Jane, Burk, do," -
Z nith, H i.ry, do. a p,; IC
And the brigs Florida Hays, and Gover.
...,r Brook, Whele®, not then condemned
but cxp?£Ud.
. h * n ' y» Caliender, from Tenne
rifle, left thi-re the I il u!t, the
Ship Liberty, Merry, cf and for N. York
:n 10 3.
Brig Nancy, Dorighcrty, cf I'hilacklphia
•Ship Jane, Cardnfr, of Bollon, f £ ..c m
on her paftbge from Madeira to Teneriffe
and condemned—purchased 1 n by the capt.
Capt. Calitnder also inform that the
ship IYyal, 1 hr,nm, belonging fc the A
merican Cotifui at Madeira, from the'icc
bound to the Cape dc Vctds, was captured
after a naming fight of two hours,' by a
1 rench privateer and sent into I'alma, where
file was condemned, and Ihe crew threaten
ed to be treated as prifontrs of war—that the
fchr. Ann, Prince, of and from i'ortlaiid to
Teneriffe was also sent into Palnv, and cx
pe&ed to be cond«n. Ned, and that the (hip
Fabius, Corran, from Philadelphia, arrived at
Madei a about the jth of May. •
Schr. Harmony, Rhodes, ijotn Jacqmel
to this port, was captured 011 the 2' th ay,
faur days out, by a French ro» boat, and
sent into Barracoa.
Brig Eliza, Peterfon, of this port, has
m;rived at Malaga, from New-York. The
Kliza was bound to Cadiz, but prevented
entering that port by the Britifli fleet.
A Britilh (hip of the line and two frigates
lay in Lynohaven bay on Monday lalt.
Baltimore, July 10.
Arrived ycflerdav, brig Fanny & J.,i r , Cnnwa",
ijdays 'roro Cape Fiancoij. Left brigs Sufa- & POl.
ly, to fail for Baltimore in 3 or 4 days; Lucreiii. of
Boston ; and f; hr. Eli?j, of Norfolk.
An express.arrived at the Cape the day before capt.
Conway failrd, with intelligence that to fail ot the
lineand a number of frigates, had arrived at the city
of St. Domingo,.from Spain.
Capt. Ha/fy came pafTenger in ' the Fanny Sc Jane.
Kit vqffel, the Jemima and Fanny, of Philadelphia,
having been condemned.
'I hrre French frigates were to fail from the ope
for France, in ajor 3 davs.
Macpherfon's Blues.
BATTALION ORDERS,
• J»iy tfth, 1795.
Tiic RLUES areto affemhle on Friday morn
in.!> at 5 o'clock, at their usual parade.
ROBHRT HfcVSHAM. p. t.
Philadelphia, I zth July, 1790.
Cj* Notice is hereby given to the
Se men who have quoted tile Spsnili ship the
Coinmerceof London, now lying in, the iGver
Delaware, prize to his Britta'nic r.iaiefiv's late
lil War de Biaak that if they wil repair
• n board the prize «it;,our delay, or l'urrr;i-!rr
tlie.nMves to bis majeSy'a Cnnftil p enetal, their
neglect of dnfy fli'll he nverlioke 1.
Diftrid of Pennsylvania', ft.
AT OTICE 11 H. reliy Given—A Seflji.n of
IN lite Diftriift Court cf the United States,
for the >Per.nfylv!nia diftria >yill beholden at
the City Ha'.l in the Cify of Philadtlph.a cn
Tuesday the feventeemli of July inft.inl, a: cu
o'clock of the fatre day, then and there to try
.the-truth of the fails aliedwej ill the bill f the
United States against t!,e French armed veth.l.
La Croyable, Alexander Silrcftrr IjteVommau
i!tr, with her apparel, guns and appurtenances
and the goods and effeiJUoii board the fame ex
ept as iv. by Uw txce'p-ed, la ely ciprurrd by
Mrphen i'ecator,
pulil.c armed (iitp the Delaware. To the end
and intent that the owner or' owners thereof
or any ptrfnn or perform. roncJrned thertfn Tnay •
appearand (hew canfeif any they have why the
fame fliould not be emidemned according to the
prayer <f tUe said bill.
t'/iiliam Nichols, marjhal.
Marjhal 1 ) Office, >
Juy izth, 1798. j
Uv-Trn Stats«, ) rr
Ptrtnfjlvama Difrritl.
JN purloanccof a wiit to meHircftcd, from the
•R. h Richard Pti gRi, Esq. ] idge of
the I>iilii6k Court of the t'niiert S wes, in and for
the Pennfi-tvani* LYi(\ri& wiil be exposed to nublic
f-le th< M-i'ch nts' CofFrc-Houfe, in t'le city of Phi
lid If/.'a, on >nday 23d day of July iniUnf»
at is o'clock a- noon,
One half of the Brigantine cr Vejfel,
«5 -irJt v THI
union,;
JHSKSSK-- J o **""** Pitcher, M;tkr,
With »M IM her nclle, anparrl a -.d furni
ture as he amt i.ow arc. ') Sefaid' or.,- halt „f tSd
f iid Bngantine having l>ecn t}>i;-idemned for Ihe <ji\ -
tnent and difiharge of a bo- omrv. Sec.
WILLUM NICHOLS, Marfha!.
Marshal's O.'fice, )
July 12, 'c 8. J d „
C L E R K.
WANTS a place, a Man a. ho has been feve*
rai yearsiu that capaci yin this ciiy, rut
will be well recommended fraui where lie ierved.
He is a thorough occomptant and bock keeper, and
although tr.-.ught up t* the m.rcarr,!e business.
irnm having otcafion for a few boors in the ilay ac
h imc, he would prefer on that acc.ion: a
Odice. A iioc d reited t > M. M. and left at ih*
nfiice of the Gazetta of the United St ate,, »ili
c duly at'ecdcd to. r.otf juiy ft* # * The price of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year. —Subscribers who rejide at
a itiftance from the place <f publication, and
n hose papert are sent per po/t, pay fix
month's subscription in advance, and one
dollar annually for encloftng and dire Sling
their papers. The payments to be always
6k months in advance.
For Hamburgh,
T9S SMIP
s Four Friends,
Joseph Glen, matter.
"thegreareft pait of her cargo already engag
ed. For Freight, apply to
JeJfe W Robert Wain.
i«lr 7 e<>tf -
Fof Hamburgh, ditedt, .
TUS SHIP
NANCY,
Meliar Joy, master.
«:•?'*V-uT' SHE '* an «eellent, (launch
good vessel, about 330 torn, in
fleat orJSr ; hat two thirJi of Ifet cargo ready to
go on board, and will fail in the course of ten
day*. Foi terms, apply to
"Jofepb Anthony & Co.
...inly? il°L_
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE SHIP
L I B E R T T,
C APT At N »»AY.
A regular trader, and having
greater part of her cargo en
gaged •will fail on Of about the 10th of next
ftteirtfc. For terms apply at No. 74» North Front
ftrect, or to
Rofs & Stm/on
June 25 •• t §
For Lbndon, ~
THE IARQU*
ffigjL 4 D R 1 A NA.
pSHE is now ready to take in,and will
in a (hort time, having part of
her engaged.—For freight or paflage(having
excellent accommodations') apply t» the fubferib
crs, or on board the vellel at Clifford's whirs.
Knox, Hcnderfon, & Co.
No. 46, North Front Jlrect.
Who baye for Sale,
llandfome Allortment of Ihe moll
Faihionable Goods,
Imported in the Adriana, captato Lee, From
Loudon, lately arrived, under convoy.
jnnr it §
tOK LONDON,
u-m«53. The copper bottomed ship
&£»£ sAL IT,
Captain Lockyer.
'A confidwable part of Iter
c n rj,o js already engaged ; —to
Tj'l with all convcni«nt l'peed F.ir terms ap
ply to ROSS W SIMSOA,
A'o. i 2South Front-Jlreet.
June 13 . 1 1 _ f_
~ LANDING,
At \ValiHkt Street Whart, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Grown,
Mailer, from Bourdcaux,
Claret in hogflreads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Branny in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
.. Thomas & john Ketland.
Said Erig for sale,
vi's- With two p air tour pound CAN
NON, and one pair liib. CAR
may 29 §
The Subscribers to the fund
forhuihling the ship to be loaned to the United
JStates, are hereby ttotified that 25 percent upon
their fuHcriptions, is now called for—
and that notes pay able at 60, 120 and 189 days in
equal proportions will be received for the remain
dtt. The secretary Will attend at the office of the
fcommittec froai 10 to 1 o'clock every cay, to re
ceive the fame, and give receipts therefor.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
July 3- §_
Cotton
Cocoa
Anatto Dye, or
Rocoa
Jail arrived, per the schooner Three Sifters, Will
iam Shailcrofc, matter, from Cayenne,
AND TOR SALE AT
No. 22, Little Water-street, "Fy
» JEHU HOLLINGSWORTH Co.
ItißeiO §
IF Cargo ol the ship Nathaniel Bayley, cuptain
Cam bell, from Jamaica, will commence landing
TO-MORROW, at South-ftieet Wharf.
Sugars of Prime Quality iu Hhds.
High proof Rum.
rOR SALE B7
Peter Blight.
Who also offers for Sale,
A choice parcel of ift and 4th proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
f Port Wine i j Pip#B, Hhds. and Quarter calks
Madeira in Pipes
Old Arrack,
junc H §if«odti3jy
" ADVER TIS EMEN T.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command of captain Edward Miller, Ra
tioned at Spring Gardens.
June 3d, 1798 —John M'Kiflock, born in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
marked, aged 18 years, speaks broad, lalifletl
byenfign Root, at New Biunfwick, had on his
full regimentals, dole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard and very afliiming.
June blh—Jaines Crawfordi born iu Chefler,
State of brown hair, grey eyes,
fair ci mplexioD, five feet 11 indies in hsight,
aged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
his full regimental and left liis pcfl when en
fen try. also,
EliakimStow, aprifoner, born in Symfbury,
State'of Cinneflicut, aged 36 years, fclackhair
dark eyes and complexion, a repeated deserter,
rerv alTuming, writes a tolerable hand and i. ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental Ihirt and over
alls when he deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above deserters
and return them to Spring-Gardens in Philadel
phia, or v> any officer belonging to the United
States or confine them in any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained (halt have ten
<t >llars reward for either of them, or thirty for
Uie three and alf reafcnJble ehargespaid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Irtfuntry.
The different printers L» the union are
jtqjcfted to infcrt the above,
j-jne 11 f
FOR SAL 6,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Eenjamiu Monteeth Master, from Laguira,
consisting of
94? Farregas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora India
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By JVxlkngt iff Francis•
No 21 Peun ilreet.
July 2: dtf
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhdt.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret ">
Froutinac ( W ; ac ,
SaMt«rne f
Lundi J
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogfheadv of Tobasco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
% dtf_
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and.Carradarries,
of tho newest and molt approved entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANB FOR SALE UY
Alex. J. Miller iff Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18.
LANDING,
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, James Yardfley, maftef, from
Port an Prince,
88. Hoglhead. ■» p rim( . s
40 Tierces J c
3s Hoglheads j Cofr< , c>
lIS B-"g» i
FOR SALE BY
, Thomas Iff John Ketland.
t?HO HAVE ALSO ON HAND,
Ironmongery and Cutlery in packages
Guns afTorted in cases
Queen's ware in crates
Claret in hhds and cases
Port wine of a superior quality in pipes, hhdii
and quarter calks
New-York and Boston Beef, &c.
junc 16 §
Fresh Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
/fW For Sale, ,by
BAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiog Houfc, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked hillet wharf,
Boheft,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
firings andSattins, Nankeens* Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone Ricks.
They have also For Sale, |
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.;
march 8. §
Silk and CottOn Holiery,
ASSORTED IN TRUNKS.
LAt)IES and Gentlemen's silk and cotton Hose, :
received by the Adriana, from London, and
will be folj very low, for cash or good notes, at
27, North Third'Jlreet.
June 20. eod wfm2w
This Day is Publilhed,
AND FOR SALE BY J. FEN NO, II Q,CHESNUT -STREET
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON fh« origin, progress and present state of
French aggrefDon. with a Iketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
States, and lonic reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House of Represen
tatives. § june I x
ITandTng;
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the ship Con
necticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
FETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO 9FFBRS FOR SALE,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy id and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quart ef calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
i u 'y"» S
Sebastian Voigt,
CLOCK W WATC HMA :;ER,
INFORMS his friendj and the public in gen
era!, that he has removed from No. 149, North
Second-street, to Mirket, between Fourth and
Fifih-ftreet?, No. 173, where he carries on the
above business in all its various branches.
He keeps 33 usual a general alTortment ofwar
ranted watches.
June 15 dim
TO BE LET,
And pojfejfion given immediately,
THAT WELL KNOWN TAVERN HOUSE,
No. 333, in Front-street,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the sign of the
Ewe and Lamb,
inquire at No. 91, North Sixth street.
_junejs
NOTICE,
r T'*HE Owners or Consignees of veflels per
-1 forming quarantine are to take notiee that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Heilth-
Oflice at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning (Sundays excepted) such supplies as are to
be forwarded to vefl*els are desired to be sent to
the Health Office before the hour of nine.
June 8 $
An Anchor found.
ABOUT three miles b.low the Cross Ledge, a
buoy was discovered on the eastern fide of
the channel, which, 011 being weighed, brought
up an anchor of about 500 wt. without a cable to
ic. There is no weight damped on the anchor,
nor any mark on the buoy or anchor stock. The
owner, by applying to the fubferibtr, on board
the schooner Mahaia, at Levi, H• Uingfworth's
wharf, and paying reasonable charges and expm
ces, lhall have it again.
ARTHUR ROBBINS,
Captain of the Schooner.
N. B. The Anchor will be left Levi Hol
lingfworth & Son, in conformity to the adl of the
State Leglflature in such cases provided,
jucc 27 tawjm
TO BE SOLD,
Thatelegan:ly fnuaicd BRICK HOUSE and LOT ]
adjoining of eight or nine Acrc» of Land, framing 1
•n Higb-Strect in tbe City of Perih-Amboy, New-
Jerfty.
"'HE House is upwards of fifty feet front, forty
X feet deep, and two (lories high,.with four well
finifhed rooms ou each floor, the garret ceiled, and a
good cellar under the whole—Commanding in front,
an extensive view of the htfbor and bay down to San
dv-Hook, the Light-house and (hippingto and fiom
New-York —in the rear a pleafmg piolpeft of Rari.
tan river tor some miles towirda Hrunfwick ; and alto
of the found towards Elizabcth-lown, The garden
is spacious, in good order, and well laid out, in the
rear oi which is a small orchard of excellent iiuit; on
the premifea are also a large coach-house and (tablet,
and a well of good water ; a public bath isert&rd on
the (hore not far from the house, and at the distance
of about two miles is a mineral ipriog, which in a va
riety of cases prove# very salutary-—Upon the wholej
the house and itsconvrniencei, the hralihful and airy
of tbe place, render it an object worthy the
attention of any gentleman of fortune.*— For fu<ther
particulars and terms, apply to John Steven* at Uo
boken, hear New-Yoik, to John Roe, merchant ia
New-Yoik, or to Richard Stevens reliding on the
premifesj
july 11. »d»w.
FOR SALE,
BY TUt SUBSea BaRS, NO. 21 PENN-STRJET,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Willing* 1$ Francis.
June 99. dtf
Isaac Harvey, jun.
HAS 10H SALE,
At No. 9, Soutii Water-street,
A qUANTITV OF
Prime Aux-Cayes Molasses
Carolina Rice
Cod Fish, in hhds. and
A parcel of men's and Womens Combs, alforted.
ALSO,
A few tons of Nicaragua Wood,
june 27 §3^
TO BE SOLD,
40,95 c) acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeksand Ten Mile Run.
These Lands arriferoile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; thty were fold ten years ago for
five lhijlingn per acre ; patented early in 1787, tjr
cept 370 c acres, which were parentad in 1792;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tradl
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhingtou, from 14 to 16 from the
villaga of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer*
april »f. $
TUTTE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennfylvauia and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the tottrnfhips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and (ituatian,
, are a very defirablf object for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April 2T. l i
Wants a Place,
A young man, to attend in a Public House, or
afGft in a Portef Celler—Ane who can be well re
commended. A line dira&ed to J. 6. and left with
the Printer will be attended to.
i"ly 3>
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-llreet,
idjoming the waft of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incqiinpleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and* hand'fome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person to purchase will view
the premifes,a wore particular description iscon
fidered unnecelTary.
The terms of payment will be one third calh,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CK.AIQ,
No. 12 Dockflreet.
may 16 , J
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Proposals will he received for a ColleA
orof the l> oorTaxof the present year for
ths City of Philadelphia—one for the Northern
Liberties and one for the Di(tri& of Southwark,
who will be required to give such security ax (hall
be approved of by the Board of Guardians.
Any person lefirous of having cither of the
above appointments is requested to bring for
ward the names of his securities on or before
Wednesday next the 27th inft. to
Edward Shoemaker,
127 Market-ftreft.
June 21. d2w
JUST RECEIVED,
By the Adriana from London,
And for sale at this Office.
A few copies, in French, of a werk entitled,—
" Hiftoire de l'a«iminiftratiea des finances de la Re
publique Francaife, pend nt l'annee 1796. Par
Sir Francis d'lvernois."
Also,
A few copies of another £rodu«ftion of the
fame writer, entitled,
" Tableau hittoi ique et politique de Tadminif
tration de la Republique Francaife pendant l'annee
1797, des causes qui ont amene la Revolution du
4 Septembre, et de fes Refultats."
june 25
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra© his bufi.
ness, offers this Eft ale for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grilt
Mill,with two pairof (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfe6l repair,asare allthe Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Camion
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manofa£l*red there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperiorto any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for notoueaf guns
lately made, although some 0/the 94 were bored
into 32 pounders, on proving. The fuu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa£ture,and a place of arms lying in the itate
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from feveralland«
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have poffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, dec. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for thi'State; Mr, David Waterman, on
theprenkfes, or to tbe proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. i. 3«wtf'
ADVERTISEMENT.
David iis*r! John Graham, late
V of the city of' Philadelphia, merchants, '
i.ave sfligned iter all their tffc&s. r«ral and per
ianal. to the fubferibtrs, for the berieflt of their
creditors—
Notice is hereby given,
To all prrfons who are to said eft ate,
that they are required to make immediate payment
of their refpedive debts to the aflignee* at their of
fice No. 6l Dock-ftrcet. In failure whereof, legal
measures will be taken for the recovery of such as
are not immediately c^ifcharged.
SIMON WALKER, *) Afligneesof
CHARLES GILCHRIST, ( David & John
GEORGE HUMPHREYS,i Graham.
j"ly 7- tth&k ifep.
DESERTED,
From a detachment of men, flationed at Spring
Garden, under the command of Knfign George
W.Stall. Julyift. Isaac Bayley, 5' f«et 7 inches
high, g re / eyes, dark hair and complexion—born
in Pex&fylvauia, Chelter county, 19 year* old, by
trade a blaek-fmith.
July 3. Benjamin Bonnet, 5 feet 6 1-1 iochist
high, 18 years old, grey dark hair and com
plexion—horn iu Peflnfylvuiiia, no tride.
Levi Pierco, 5 feet ti inches, black eyes, dark
hair, fair complexion, 25 years old—horn in the
(hate of Mauaehufetts, enlisted in New-York, no
trade.
Samuel Edfell, 16 years old, 5 feet 10 t-a inches,
drrk hair and complexion, born in the Ikate «f New
Jersey, (a repeated deierter) by traic a carpenter
and joiner.
July 5. William Griflel, years old, brown
hair and complexion, 5 fest 7 inches, born in New-
Jersey, no trade.
Whoever apprehends th« aforefaid defertersfhall
receive fifty dollars reward, or ten dollars for each,
by applying at Spring Garden, or any officer be
longing to the fer vice of the United States with all
rcaionable expencesby applying as above,
july 9 diw
To be Let,
(And poflefiion given on the i(t of lay)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, aiad 4^feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables,at prefant' in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April 2. §
20 pipes old Bourdeaux Brandy
70 do. white wine Vinegar, and
A few calks low priced Cider Vinegar
For Sale by
Benjamin IV. Morris.
July 2 r w2w
John Haines Eif Wm. Jones,
BEG leave toinform their friends and the public,
that tfyey have commenced a Co-partnarfh'ip
in ths SADDLING BUSINESS, which will ia
future be aarriedon under the firm of
HAINES & JONES,
In Market ltreet, No. 132, one door N above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lead
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufineD, their determination to serve an the heft
terms, and their knowa attachment as Native A
mericans to the Government and Constitution of
their Country, will entitle theni to the encourage
ment 6f a gerierobs public. Although they can-,
not hoaft of having Acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their nianufa&ure (hall
be inferior t > none in this city,
june 26. tuthstf
FOR SALS,
Two three story Brfck Houses
AVith convenient itores, wharf, Ac. firinteon
Water flreet, between Mulberry an J Sadafras
Streets, containing in front on Water ltreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have tbe convenience of a publ'C alley adjoin
ing on the north fkle, and area very delirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fadtor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable.
erms for calh. For further information apply
to the printer. April 5 m&wtf
NOTICE.
/ILL Persons ba-virtgany claim or demand a-
the Eflate of Afsbeton Humphreys late
of this city, Efq Jeceafed, and who have not
rendered their accountj, are requejled to render
them immediately ; and all those who are indebt
ed to tbe said ejiate or to the late firm of Afsbe
ton and James Humphreys, are requejled to pay
their repetitive accounts to
James Humphreys, jun.
adminijlrator.
June 14 aazvfm
Wants Employment,
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu
lar apprcnticefhip to the mercantile bufi
nefsiaihis city, wiflies to engage in a Couuting,
henfe or offic«, writes a good hand and under
fiands accounts, can be well recommended and
security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette,
juae 21 3awtf
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse to" Robet Waln,
On Spruce llreet Wtoarf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. casks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Aod a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wme
may 16. eotf
FOREIGNERS
MAY, by virtue of an a £ palled at November
session 1791, hold by deed, or by will, land" •
in that part of Maryland called the diftriA 'of Co
lumbia ; and the fame may be transmitted to, and
inherited by their heirs, &c. as if they were citi
zens.
Within the di(lri<sh of Colambia, upon thc-eaf
tern branch of Potomack. oppofne fqiares No.
J124, arid 1131 in the city Washington, are 360 a
cresof refcrved wood land Forfait. Its advanta .
gesare numerous, poflefung three or four elegai.t
heights, many fine fpringa, and an abundanea of
; timber, principally white oaks. For a dock or
I (hip yard, no position can bond of equal benefits,
; having two coves, with narrow entrances, from
{ which at an eafyexpence, tide wat«r might bo
I' excluded, and dock<* sank, large enough to re
ceive vcflels of any size.
Wifiiiug to retain an istereft in the property, I
woald prefer felling an undivided half or three
/ eights. GEORGE FRENCH.
| For terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Union
} flreet, Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Wal(b, .ifalti
niore. July 3. *2aw6w.
"James G. & Sam/. W. Fi/ber,
No. 13 Arch-Street,
Have Jor Sale
aoo Casks best refined Salt Petrc
Belt London VT'indow Glass from 10 by 8 to
12 by 10
Ditto Olafs Ware in Casks aflorted cawStting
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glares, Coblets* <scc.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Flan
nels, Baizes and ICentail Cottons. J
june ay ja*if
NOTICE— That the firft Tues
day of Augalt next, is appointed for the
.tuurir.g before a Court of Con in on Pleas, of Al
legheny county, in the Stateof Pennsylvania, on
an application for the benefit of the a&* of this
State, providing for the relief of insolvent debt *
or*, having at June term lad presented my peti
tion, with a fchepule annexed, of all my estate,
real, personal, and mixed, rights, and credit*, to
be aflfgned for the use of my creditor*.
WILLIAM WUSTHOFF.
jure .to#
Now Opening,
At William M'Laws Saddle ManufaAory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general aflortment of Horferaan'f
Pistols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London*
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles. Bridle*, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horfeman*t Cap*, Sword*, Cartouch Boxes, Va
licea, Saddle Bag*, Portmanteau'*, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Treasury Department,
March 19, 170 S.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THATpropolals will be received at theQfEceef
the Secretary of' the Treasury until the expi
ration of the ifth day of July next enfaing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe fir A day of
O&oher 1798, to the thirtieth day of September.
1 799; both daysinclufive, at the places and within
the mentioned, viz. At Olwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac 5
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Lcramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at F«rt Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox apd Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Maffac; at any
place or places on the eafl fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on ihe Ulit.ois River ;at any place or place*on the
ead fide of the Miflifiippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in tke State of 1 enneffee; at any place or
places on the east fide of the Rive* Mifliflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of I'ennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United State*.
If supplies (hall be required for any pods or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchiuppliea
fhall be furnifhed at price* proportioned to those tfr
the pods before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contrador.
The rations to be l'upplied to consist of th* fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-"N
ky, one quart of two quarts / . .
of vinegar, two poutid* of soap, ( utl rsfl
one pound of candles J rations
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities,
2H that there (hall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the conlumption of the troopß at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ol"wego t
for the term of fix months in advance, and at eack
of the other pods, for the term of at lead three
months ih advance, in good and wholefomc provij
ftons, if the fame ball be required. It is to be bb
derdood, that the cojitradlor is to be at the ex»
pence and rilk of HTuing the fuppliesto the troop*
at each pod, and that all lodes fttftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price <rf the articles captured or dedroyed, on
the depofkioiwof twoornr.ore pcrfons of credita*
ble characters, and the certificate of o commiffion
cd officer, afcertainin# the circumdances of the
lofsand amount of the articles for whioh com
pensation shall be claimed.
ITie priviledge is reserved to the United State*
of requiring that none of the fupplie* which may
be furnifhed under the proposed contract; shall be
iflued, until the fupplie* which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tht Treasury.
march 17. zawtl <;jy
Mills, Portage," &c.
TO m 1 leased for a term of tears*
TO be leafed, for a term not less than three,
Kor more than seven years, a V ALU ABLE
!*ROPE"RTY at the Seneca-'Fallj, in the county of
OnOndago, and date of New-York, on the Banks
of the Seneca-river, two|mi!es weft of the Cayuga*
ferry, and <levcn miles ead of <s?neva.
This cftabliinment consists of an excellent grifk
mill, iaw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
age or carrying place, with between thirty and.
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required
for future improvement.
The grift mill is a handsome, new and well fin
ifhed building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 dories high
and furnifhed with a run of excellent Burr done*
and another of Efopus* dones, of the bell quality
—and the mod approved bonks &e calculated to
make all the different qualities of floor for expor
tation or for home conlumption : Itisaecefliblc by
water from every part of lake and Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from it* fituation,*conwwands a veryexrenfive and
encreafing custom : The stream on which it dands,.
being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevered season of the lait win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by frod :
The saw mill is also new, fituxtcu on the fame
!trcam, now furnifhed wkh «n ample dock of
logs, of which a &*pply may at all time* be pro
cured by land or water, of the bed quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, and iVfiiciently lat-ge : The
barn it about 4ofeet iquare, and entirely new :
The portage is of a mile in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were passed in the
lad year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objeel is already produ«3lve of a
handsome income, Which mud -be incrcafing and.
permanent :
Among the many advantages of thbfit«ationi.
; mud be numbered the fertility of the furrourding
country—being the b«ll improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—thi concentration of inter
course by land and water, the GenefTee dateroad
pading through it, a* well as all water carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben
which render* it a mod eligible dand for a Store cr
Tavern—The river and lake* abound ia fifh and
fowl, and the country with deer and oiher game.
Besides the mills already cre<sted at this place, it
iscalculkted for any additional water works that
may be fouad neceflary—Fulling mill, bask mill,
tar.uery, forge*, &c. may be crc&ed at a small ej
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats from the
Cayuga lake ; and it is tJuught to abound in the
neighborhood.
Tjhe ftocit on hand w : ll be fold to the leflee, and
the cattle, utensils, fmilh's forge, &c. may be fold
or let the premises.
!f a purchase fliould offer for the whota or an
undrvided part of the preraifesit will be fold.
For term# of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil
helmosMtvdeme, at the Seneca falls, or to the
subscriber K at Schcnc&ady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
jnce 15 law 2m
Preiident's Meilages to Congreis
THJSEof thejth, igthind lift ofJun«i»4
also cf the jd April, »nd 4th ofMay last. maybe
, hid "at the OlEcs •( ttac Editor.