of tje ®nitta States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
By John Fen no, N 9- 119 Che [nut Street.
NuJßtUt I#I.J
CON G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
M I»AT, AHUL JO.
TJie Houf: having refol-ved wftlf into > committee
of t£c whole oh the 3ate of the Union, on the
bill to pravide an additional armament for the
prote&ion of the trade of the United States, and
for other purposes, when the consideration of
Mr- Gallatin's amendment to the firll feftion
being refained. w.z. to isfert " provided they
shall slot, inti'me of peace, be empbyedas con
" Toy? to any port or place."
( Continued from ycjltr day t Gaxette.J
Mr. Nicholas expedted that when the
gen tie man from Connecticut (Mr. Allen)
rose to-day, :oftead of giving the Commit
tee new i ft?ncee of passion, instead of mak
ing new attacks* as a.unjud and
tinrealonable, he would have given fume rea
ftrn for the heat which heyc i trday discover
ed. But the committee had received area
fon which went to every of this fort,
which mull be taken as a full apology for his
conduct of yelterJay an.l to day, viz that
jje is d ffcrent'ly formed, from other p.fons ;
that- his passions are not under his t ontrol,
and that therefore he mult not ha expe&ed
to a fwer fur th'm like other men. Hi
should not, therefoie, have taken ahy no
tice of them, had not calumnies bieo i tro..
duced, which would extend s far, aid ii un
noticed, inflidt wounds as deep, as if
fcatteted by a person of a di(Rrrcf)t dtfe'rip
tion.
Mr. N, acknowledged he was never more
adonilbed than he was yesterday at the real
or affedted ind g atijn and anger shewn on
account of the lp:ecli of the gentleman from
Pennsylvania, a id which he found by the
fpcech of the ge .tleman from Connecticut
today, was Dartly,intended for himfelf; be
cause he did suppose more moderation or
more.temper could not have been discovered
on a discussion of this kind, on which sub..
jedt it was kmwn, a great division of opini
on exided. The member from Counedticut
charges gentlemen with having'always been
opposed to fcertain mealure- ; and mould he
suppose, then, that such a question would !
be fuffered to pass without notice? - Could
fee suppose gentlemen would fa< rlfice their
Opinions in .Hence? Or could it have been
expedted, that they (hould have come for
ward, and declared that they had heretofore
been always millaken ? At the m :m':nt the
country >as abi-ut to answer for the mif
condudt of its Admisiftratiorr, could gentle
men rationally suppose thi could happen ? If
the gentleman exp-dted absolute and unlimi
ted submission to opinions which other, thiuk
erroneou-), he may despair f ever leeing it.
lie trulted there ne»*r would be a fresmap
in the world found, who, though he con
forms to the adt of a majority will jultify it
agaiciTt his own opinion What, Mr N
asked, is the ground of diftereoce 4»eti i*t
gentlemen on the present occasion ? Have
we not. said 'tie, concurred with gentlemen
in mcafures of defence, and did we not can-'
*as these meafurts on the ground of utility ?
If any objection was made to the different
meafnres propof-d, it was is to their pro
pritty, Ihe greatness of the expence or the;
ioefficacy of the m afure themselves. And
Js it not pardonable (exclaimed Mr. • ) that
where I fe< a measure propp ed which can
not be ufeful, but which rruft plunge the 1
country in a war,, that I deplore thr conse
quences of ftfch an eve-t, and expref. .my
sentiment. on the occasion ? Upon a revi.-w
of the cotvlufi of gentlemen in this buflnefs,;
it appeared to him till trey dij not wilh
the people to ti nl upon our present fitiraii-l
on ; but to keep up their refei.trieiit andi
.in?tati»n, and pr pare them for taking aiea
fijjea which th«y themselves seem determin
ed to take. He was sorry to believe this
w»s the cafe, but on hi 3 mind there was no
doubt as to its being so.
Could it have been believed, that after
tjie gentleman from Pcnr.fylvania had enu
merated X° many indanjes, in whieh he said
he (kould deem it an unworthy fubmiffian to
give way, that he fhoulcl have heen imme.
diately afterwards attacked,pt»d charged with
a disposition to furrendar 1 the independev.Ce
of the country ? That gentleman bad been
gro'sly ca umniate-l, and he could net d.f
cover for what, except gentlemen foqr.d
that their own political cou<Ju<ft would not
bear the ted of examination.
Gentktien have said. that the indepen
dence of the country coofifts in refiiting un
just demay.ds; :hat y.nimuft defend your
tommerce agg effioa, or your honor
.an 1 independence are gone M when we
fuffered under the .aggreffiom of another
country, nothing was said of forfe.ting our
lonor and independence if we did not refill.
And would gentlemen fry ibat honor and tn
dependence were ot such a nature that tliey
-vere to bear till the lad moment before they
c >tnplained ? If kc understood any thing
about tfert feeling, itrefifted the firft mroad
noon right, and there was as much left ps
hoftor in fuff.rtng an encroachment to the a
mount of a (hilling, as there would be «n
fullering to the greatest By fub
milting 10 search. which ourwere o
bilged to do by the laws of Nation., they
have to submit to the decf»on of a fore gn
tribunal ; therefore b« could fee but little
difference betwixt fubmittJOg to the law, of
Natipn , to aggteffions. lt
WC uld te a matu rof merely. Ho
«ou(,aad indepcnd<rce had flothwg to do
Mr! N. said, he wa» m,uch -at a loss in fol
lo*ing the gentleman iram Connecl.cut
through his long and tediou. charge, agair.ft
hitrfelf, and other, who generally
liim. Many of them were such as he ftflujd
lot take up the i imc of the to no-
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAT 2, 1798.
tic. He, as well as the gentleman from
Maflachufettt who followed him, rel ed
much upon the dcrlara ion which he ha 1
made tl«: we cannot effectuaily dtfend our
commerce. Me believed thi to be the
tru h , and though the gentl wan from Maf
fachofetu formally denied it o/i theouifet
of his argumen's, he afterwards feened to
acknowledge it. f Otis said, he decla
red in the mo!t unequivrfc 1 terms that we
are to the pot £t>'ou of our ci>m
mei-ce j The gent craan flate'd that t declare
our weaknef-, was to invi e ztggrefiion ; but
he afield what would be the co' f.quence of
holding out protedtion to men whom the go
verrwre .t cannot pote4 ?. Toldo so would
certainly in»ite entcrprizes whi' h would end
in ruin. Gewtlemtn fay no country ever did
compl tely defend their commerce ; but our
argument is, that we cannot de'eod it, so
as to be of any service, and that though we
might attempt it, Great Britain would have
a preference os a count of her fupirior force
a id our trade would fa;l a facraffce to our
attempt.
Upon this fubjedt he was called upon to
defend himself ayainft gre if inco»filten«v,
and againtl a charge of a lo[s of chara£ter
and national f< elii g from what he felt three
or fur y' ais ago He was dated as then
being a great advocate for tl e carrying trade;
but did not the gentleman fro ■> Coniiefticut
fee that it was a mere carrying trade t>-at
was then spoken of. Tiiofc aggressions
which ended lo fatally to this Country had
gone on to a coi'fiderable extent when this
propofitjon was made. The gentleman had
Hated him as faying, that the matter wa» not
so much a commercial as a political griev
ance; and the.intention of the m afure then
under confiderattun was to force Gteat Bri
tin to forbear to do us wrong. If thegen
tlem >n examined tfee fubje-t more attentively
he would find that ihe fame line of conduit
governed hrn at that time which now go.
verns him. Ail that was t er» uropof.d
were defenfive operations, and the gentle
man was obliged to have recourse to his own
imagination, to make any thing else o f them
Is l e might be believed, he would declarej he
never did contemplate a situation in wliich
he fhoulihave wilhed to have gone to war
with Gteat Britain, unless she invaded thi.
country.
The gentleman from Connetlicut has ve
ry diredtly cha ged members of thi. Ho'ife,
who adt i i oppi fiti jn to him, with afii g
under the injSueuce of French Jtpl.m■■ticJitl/,
which the pevfons denonyHaied X and Y, i»
the late difpatchts, have Jpoken of. He was
perfeftly wjiliog that that gentleman (hould
circulate every .opinion of this fort which he
pleaf-d; he was not arratd of thii fort of
caluotiiv ; but he alked that gentleman, « hen
he attended to all - the informati tf given by
th<fe agent., he could charge the
i>overtun> nt of France with the wljfcte or it.
Did he suppose that government, or any
ther, would authorize person. to inform the
Ministers afaforeign country, that they were
not adtuatedby principles o; jtidice, a> d that
thc'pr fetit date of ihiags c»»uld not 1 tx
illi? H'i<l not inlinuations similar to those
now rodefe by the gentleman from Connedti
cut b en heard in this Houfc almod as oiten
a. gentlemen speak . and was it improbable,
Mr. .N. alked, that men of the defeription
of which these agents appew to be Ih >uld
address theeifclsjes to the fears which they
supposed exitted of 9 fa iious> spirit in this
country? If gfcntlemen in this House are
in what they iayi they have long
hld such an opinion. The gentleman fiom
Connecticut himlell had this morning char
ged every member, differing from him in o
pini n, with a devatedntfs to France. Me
-believed such insinuations, which had for a
long time been condantly made, had in this
cafe been taken advantage of by these agents.
If there exilleda party in this country who
were adtive in furthering the views of
France, wa. it not provable, Mr. N, alked,
that some one per on would, before now,
have been detedted ? I?' any such exilted,
why did not their naneg appear? No such
thing was' fden; and he would confidently
fay, a de eftion of this kind never would be
rratle. He. knew more of the charadtersof
gentlemen alluded to thefe gentlemen
who made the i. limiations knew; and he
was certain that j>o person of his acquaint
ance had carried ori any cor efpondence with
that country since our dispute with i: has
become of a serious natare.
But geothmen lay that those opposed to
them in opinio 1 propose to sub-nit Where
and on what occasion had thi. been propofedf
Do wc not, said Mr. N. ex res ly detlari!
we will not submit ? And ha- it not I eetj
acknowledged ti.at the inllrudtions given to
our Minider were ample ana proper, and
that every thing had been done that ought
to be done on our part to effedt a negociatii.
on ? H'-w t en could it be laid that "gen
tlemen wilhed to sub-nit, because they de
clined to go into measures from which the\i
could fee no advantage, bat which would
certainly produce war? if-the gentleman
from Connetlicut does believe, as l»e daes.
that Great Britain is in imminent danger'
and that (he will either be iflvftt!<-d. or mint
ed .by other means, and afterwards'that the
French will go feriouflv to war with this
country, wot it not be good policy to for.
bear exhausting ourfelvesat present ? It ce. j.
tainl? would ; for if we went into the mea
' f* res propo fed,-they would not qnly be-ab
ortive, but mischievous. He did no be
lieve the time " ould ev r come when, thi*
roantry would submit to the will of a for
eign power if ai>y thi g could force us
into fuch-a fiumion, it wtruld be premature
exertion on yond our r^aclu
i ' . ' 4 ■
Mr. N- said he was charged with exprefl"-
inir hopes ef peace.bvinj* yet prefr »ed, ,and
that he cwtaii'ly coc.ld ' t believe-i)'the
hopes he txprclT d. IX peruitvly mild seal
low d that before fr r is decbrid a better
tx>, e may be entertained ..with rtTpcA to
peace than afterwards; and he believed that
if we coaid cfc ps a declaration of war until
the war in Europe :* do ed, we might es
cape it altogether. There is a poflibility
tliat war will not be decla ed againll us; be
hoped greater objefts, the brirging about a
general peace, w u dengigethe attention of
the Fren h, take it off from this coun
try. And if 'h>» was not only a possible,
but a ' eaforiable course of thing», would it
not bi? wif; to forbtar mtafures of war ? %
thought i would.
But the gentleman from Connedticut has
declared what he expelled from 'hose who
dift-rtd from iro in opinion. Hee*p<£led
that whenever a majority pr posed a measure
the rni iority immed ately, and with
out discussion, to agree to it, without a y
tfi.ng being said as to the e'xpedie cy of the
measure pr posed. [Mr. Allen said he had
exprLGly dated that difference of opinion
mull exilt ; but tba the de ifions of a maji
rity ought al ways to be ab ded by] If that
was the gentleman's fxpreffi in, then his cla
mour was made too loon, btcajtfe it was ot
known, "■hilll a qucltion vu ujlde" d fcuf
finn, what was the will of a rruj j lt-jr. Mr.
N, did not believe that whenever that gen
tleman came into a minority that he would
{hew a greater degree of {u million, t* ite
less clamour, or do ltfs to.thwart th • hjea
iures of government th p. he and his si tends
di .
But its was. said gentlemen ought not to
(peak of our means. Was it 'opposed hey
were inixhaullible ? And if they'were not,
would it not be proper to enquire into the
tendency of mcalures before tbey are gone
into ? No—this w ill not be allowed, and
whtn gentlemen do it th y are brantfed with
triaf;n, with diabolical intentions, and with
a desire to subjugate this country ta the will
of another!
< The gentleman had all dged against him
that at the lad session, an amendment was
proposed by him (Mr. N.) to the aofwerto
the Pre fide t's address, wljich pledged thb
country to make wat. He believed this was
what the gentleman was ready for, but he
kept his intentions in the back grru d. The
present ^ ?trd
war. If the gentleman thinks the time is
come when we to go to war, why does
he not declare it ? if gentlemen meant to
mak.- war. t ey o ight to bring forward a
proposition Tor at ortte dtclari ~g it, as by
the ronft tution Congress only had the post
er of di.i g this ; but he was so ry to be -v
bliged to believe, that thbbgh gtntlemeti
not ready tor this qitefli'Hi, it \v s thsir
ficfire to produce war in a different way. Ra
ther than a?ree to a measure which would
certa:i,!y lead to war, he thought i HOtild
be mere so' the intereil of the country to
make a positive and unequivocal declaration
of war at once.
The gentleman from MafTachufetts (Mr.
Otis) with an an which is greatly p<-art fed
upon in his bouse (and Which he Was so ry
to fee, because he'did not-wifh hc pb-.ee of
country to be thus a£led upon) aflc d
whether, after b ing fuccefs'uS in "a coiiteft
with one nation, we C. ere prepared to crouch
to another ? Mr. N f.iid, he had before
ftatcd that this queflion does not at ail in
clude any thing of this kind. In the ihSanfce
to which the gentleman alludes,
very different frcm what they are at pre ent.
The cou trv was invaded, fubmifli ». was
demanded, and an ar ' ed force reatjy 'o en
s rc' it. It <vaa refitted, and the issue wa-s
favourable,' and he never could hav; a doubt,
that if this country should ever beralled to a .
fnuilar coßteft. it will have a limilar ifTVie.
Sweden and Denmark, it was said, l.ave
navies, and that Ruffii built «ne in a
barbarous (late though they' had far less
means to rely upon than this country.
the fubjeft of a navy was for . erly Vhder
confiderati m. Mr. N. said, the examples of
Sweden and Denmark were quoted, artd'it
was then shewn that the whole of our reve
nue would not Support in this country a nkvy
equa' to that of either Den.nark or Sweden,
the expence w >«ld be so d rferent in thctwo
countries. As to Russia, he c uld npt caL
cula e the difference of m£4ns betwi • t
this ar.d that j:ou-.try ; but Peter,had an
immense ntimber cf people whom he cou d
direct at his will; but hcrt every thing that
is done, in this, or any other way, mud be
done by fretmen, who will be Well paid for
their labour. The gentleman from Maffa
ehuletts added, 'that the Vice Prtfident has
given an opinion that this country i- equal t«
t e building and main aining of a sav'y. Mr.
N. advised the gentleman to agaia'into
the buok to which he referred, a d he would
find that the revenue which the writfcr fup
poled would be equal to the support of a navy,
we have already raised and applied so other
objefts—lt is appropriated to the payment
of a debt, of as army, of a civil lid, »ndof
a diplomatic cft^blifhmtnt—»nd in to
provethat we may civa-e apd fcp jert a navy,
it mull be known that we may raifea revenue
twice ai large ai what we now have, ot was
contemplated by the Vice-PreGdent, in the
book which had'tcen quoted.
As ' o the 'ight of convoying our tt'&de,
Mr. N. said, be nevev had denied it. Where
we can declare war, we can con»oy our (hips.
The only qudlion whether becaufe'the
sovereign power of another country cai
i?rant convoys, the Preftdent of the United
States can do it i With refp<& to the ef,
■ -«• - h . : k
/efl yvhicti the convoys of Denmark and
Sweden had produced, it mud appearto have
nrifen from their united fnrceberng formida
ble, and which, i£ their conveys had not
been rtfpericd, \nuld have befcn hrown in
to "the £c ile aga 11ft the belligerent pow erj
which wonld have attacked ttum.
, Bit it was said, if France wilhed 'o de
clare war agai d us, she would not wafct
pretexts. r.H that was knojwn on thisheaii
was that France had not yet ihought proper
to declare w?r, and it wa.s to be presumed
(he will not do it. But the gentleman from
Massachusetts cflulJ not that, any
more* than other governments, to te free
from paffians, a' dif we determined to link
iheir vfffcis, and put to death thejr people,
it may pi'' duce a different eifedt.
V Bat all this was said tf) b.e of no corfe
quenct ; because if tlie Britilh are to Carry
our trade, coitvoys will not be employed
This would, Mr. N- faidj lea trcw ki ;d of
legiflatio' , to go into a very expensive mea
sure, WitiiDUt euquiring into the use of it,
• because the Prefitlenc wil be at ibeity to
divert it to f me other objtdl, if it should
not be wa- ted for the ptirpol'e for, vyliich it
is provided. He wilhed. on the contrary,
i to enquire
i bef rt he agreed ta it ; anJ'if tkri was not
grtat prob bilky of being ufeful aa a con
voy, he should wi<h it 1 coil It 11 of a left
number ai vtffeL for the defence of our co.td.
and rivers
The girffleman fiy* we Hi all have to pay
the price' f convoyo to another ecu try, it
we do not provi It them for ourselves. This
he knew ; and from the belt information he
could get on the fubj dt. he bjicved we
ihou d have to do this, if the mealure con
tempi ted was gone into.
With refpedt td the amount of our exports
to France and Great Britain, it had little to
da with the present queltion. It. was only
introduced to Ihew the probable effedt of or
being (hut out of Frenc 1 porn, in eonfe
quenie of a war. As to the amount of the
ex; ottations from this country to Great
Brit in in the year 1785. no inference could
be drawn from that as to th- pref nt amount 5
because, before the edab ilhmei t of the p «-
sent government, Great Britain was'Sdepot
for mod of the £tp>:rt d produce of thi.
country : but firice that period, a direct
, trade has been opened to. all the world from
' our own ports.
Thg gentjeroan front MaflackufWtts had
-atfo talked about submission. andfeemedto
suppose that since the publicati n of the late
dispatches, gentlemen were to come forward
| and declare they had heretofore been in error.
; £Mr. Otis said, (>c had never any idea that
the dispatches wouid change any opinion of
gentlemen ; he was g ad, however, to find
himfelf midaken in part J If was said. no
thing couid ftve u -»but union. Are we,
i said he continually to be abused, until we
; concur in every measure which certain gen
llcmen bring for ard i Is nor attachment
to the ir.terelts of the country co/'dantly to
befufyeded, conform to the wifhe.
of g-cr-tletnen t Why are we sent V.ere,
said he, ' if we are not frefly 10 exercise our
opinion? ? If a tyranny was to b< set up
oyer opi .ion ; if attempt, were madAfo in
fluence them hy fpeakitig of the passions of
the people, "he begged gentlemen to banifii
them at once ; for thii tyranny of opinion,
he said, w:t. woeff than fljvcry in chains.—
He w dud gentlemen to consider of what use
this kind of clam ur could be. Have we,
•Lid he,' anything but their* Own praiefliom
for the ejccefs of pQtriotiftti W'trich grtitiemen j
tell us and the world they poffirfs ? And
have those who differ from them in opinion,
Ifff reason to l}e attscl.ed to their cuutitry,
they who are continually charging them
with a want ps that.attaclitjient } Do they
believe (they d Hot) that the influence of
another cpjintry ha. fp<ea itfell frow , ope
end of the conii'.ent to another ? Whatever
infl fnce there may have been in this country
in favpur cfJnance, it has been m rely the
influence of sentiment. It could not be sup
posed (he had the power to buy up the ipte
red f a large part ; of the country. The
idea wa. too abftird to be entertained.—
When, fjid Mr. N. we Confefs > e are in
jured b.' that country, asd that if they make
an attack upon u\ we will tlierti to the
lad, what more can gentlemen iviflv? Why,
then, all this clamour ? He feared it was
intended to 11 ake the people ou of doors be
lieve, whar gentlemen themselves did not,
that there was a party in this house counedt
ed with the French Government, and deter
mined on the deflrydtion of their own. '
Mr. N. concluded with an apology for
having taken up the time of the committee
in noticing calumnies which w<re too gross
let. imp*,fed upon the molt credulous ; but
bein,; so often repeated, he thought it ne
cessary thu. to nolice them.
Mr. Dana. Perhaps many geiylemen of
the committee in fpeakingj on this iuhject
have displayed too gi'eat an finthufjaTm.' It
must be admitted that the gentletnan from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) had delivered
his observations with great apparent mode
ration ; yet it might not be ariy'eafir matter
to answer those observations, without (Jmti
ments of indignation. An American, not
very ambitious as to the glory of his country,
may yjt abhor tlje idea of reducing it to'a
state of fubmidion to a fofeign power ; and
when gentlemen propole a course ro be taken
which would abandon our commerce to Ihe
depredations of foreigners, and {hereby de
stroy it, it is natural that an American Ikould
spurn at the idea. And fbr this reason, the
rrtoddration with which gentlemen speak of
measures which would ftaiu our country wrth
infamy, is the thing which excites indigna
tion!
The present question, Mr. t). admitted,
ought to be considered witlicalmnefs and mo-
deration. Irf the View lie meant to take of
the Aibjeft, 'e fhouid endeavour so to confi
3er it- He fhouid have hesitated in speaking
upoo it all, if the whele delegation of Con
ueftkut had aceupied so mut;h time of tli«
hauls this feflion, as live gentleman i'roiu
Pefinfylvania atofie had.dohe.
Mr. 0. referred to the late dispatches of
oiirminiffersin France, as to the opinion-en*
tertained in France relative to our state of
union and capacityof defence. Our incapa
city for defence was drawn from the want of
j> union in our councils, and therefore of the
! ability to call forth our fefodrces. France,
said he, beli«ves (he has a powerful party in
this country, and, in these dispatches, it ap*
pears that her agents have been guilty of a
molt (lander, in fnying, that they
Have even'fupporWrs in Vhi.s house. He wifti
led to repel (he slander; and whililthat coun
try claims every thing, because (he has the
power to claim it ; whitlf Ihe plunders us,
• because >ve are weak ; whilst (he inlults us,
. . because we do not resent the injury, he fhouid
: wish. to convince i'rance and hef ag<nts of .
their folly, and of their ignorance, as to uie
state of this country.
France.is as proud of her diplomatic (kill as
1 of her £lory atchieved by asms ; and by what*
i ever means (he has diviJied the people bf this
country, whether by means of money, or by
artful hypothecs in favour of liberty ; « U
ther we are their dupes, or their tools pUr
chased with money, 13 of little coiifofldence.
1 This being the opinion i" Francs,* hat
then will bj the effect produced b£ a number
»! of gentlemen of thi? house under-akin «to op
-1! pole meaf'»res of reiiftance against ihe depre
dations of that cpuntrj ? The effect certainly ,
, will be, that the French will conceive their
opinions well foupded, however upright the
conduit of tfrofe gentlemen may be.
! Mr. D. said he Ihould not repeat the ob
: fervations of his colleague on this fabj it;
: but call the attention of the committee to
. the exhibit A. in the late dispatches, which
meations the application ot a lady to General
Pinckney. [Mr. p. read an ex'tatt tfom It
' relative to the loan 6f money desired by Fiance
' from this country. J France, Mr. D.
' does not propose.to reduce lis to fubmiffiojn
r by invading our country ; the only planfug 1 -
. gefted is that of ravaging our coalts, and de
, Proving our commerce. The conduit of tlve
French government (hewed, he thought, that
1 something might be expected from a firmnefs
' in the decifipns of Congress ; fine: it appears,
> by the firmnefs of our envoys, the terms pro
■ posed by the agents of that government,
t were, in some degree, relaxed, and that they
, tfere evidently unwilling the envoys (heuld
leave the country without entering upon an/
negotiation. It was in this view that he
1 considered a declaration that we would not
refill, as an encouragement to them to pro-
I cted in their depredations upon us. And he
> took the liberty of faying, that whatever was
; done here had its effeft in France. He had
I seen the observations of gentlemen opposed to
the mea(ures of adminiflration of tins coun
' try, in the publications of that country. Mr,
• D. read a quotation from a speech of Mr.
1 Nicholas, from one of these publications.
I These exira&s were pubJlftied, he said, to
prove to the people of France, that the peo
ple of this country are difaffe&ed towards
' their government ; and that vie are a dis
contented, divided and contemptible race-
In jullice to the gentleman from Virginia, he
had heard him fay this was not correctly, (IgJ*
1 fd ; ,hut he quoted it to (hew that gentlemen
i ought to bf careful how they dei.ver ienti
ments whiclji may be used so greatly to the
di fad vantage of their country.
When oppofitioa to meaflires of this kind
produced a belief in France that there e*i(ts
a divifi® 1 of opinion as toihejuftice oh'our
cause, if h« were in the (ituationof those gen
tlemen who make this opposition, he Ihouid
feel some repugnance in rejiifting any meaf'ure
which had the defence of the country for its
object. If he flood in so observable a (itua
tion as to be considered the chieftain of a par
! ty, he fhouid feel foms apprehen'fion, howe
ver innocent his views and intentions m ght
be, les he fhouid be suspected of being influ
enced by improper motives. Ifhe flood in
the situation of the gemlenitaii from Pennsyl
vania (Mr. Gallatin) he f.cknowledged his
patriotism would not allowihim to oppufe, at
this time, a measure iutendod for the defence
of-our country. / ? ar be it from him, howe
ver, tO,ceiiftire such a conduct. He would
render-honour to that patriotism which he
owned he did not himfelf peffefs.
The question before tli<j committee, Mr.
D. said, was one of the highest importance ;
for, if it were carried, it would be the means
of annihilating the whole ofour foreign com
merce ; it would deflroy t|ie principal part
ot our revenue ; proltrate our public credit ;
inipoverifb and ruin our merchants ; and
would irretrievably lose the great body of oar
seamen- This was the qutfltiftn ugonwhifh
they were now about ,to decide ; whether
we (hall submit to a complete abandonment of
our.commercial rights; wlvether only our ter
ritorial rights only (hall be protected, or whe
ther our commercial citizens have not a claim
also upon the protection of government ?
Gentlemen fay they are willing to defend our
commerce according to our means. And wliat
said he, are our means? ,We have b- en e^ia.'-
ly pillaged by 311 the world. Gentlemen
will cau(e refpeit to be given to our t
By it. to have tl>» honour of being e
qually insulted by all the world. They' fay
they feel for the misfortunes of seamen ; hut
thpy will not doa single thing for their relief.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania refutes
public protection to our veflels, and difallon s
the right of fe;f : defence, for fear our armed
vessels fhouid commit ads which would !-»d
to war. He was therefore, for letting things k.
main.»s they are ; aridthe prel'ent lituatioa of
things he dignifies by the name of peace. And
is this a peace, fa:d Mr. D. which is valuable i
He had supposed, that a Itate of peace was a
(late in which the rights of nations was u-
and in which the voice ofjufrice'
reigned. But wjtat 13 the peace spoken oft?
the gentleman from Pennsylvania I It is a
ftaic of political purgatory ; a state of cor
ruption and diflrefs, i n which a foreign power
does with us what it pleafrs. The fyflem of
the gentleman from Pennsylvania is peiTedJv
palTlve ; it is as it respects naval matters, a fy
lieni of paflive obedience and non-refifJamce.
But ts this a pence, exclaimed Mr. D. v/ot*
thy the American Republic to cultivate > No
American will fay so.
Our present state, fhegentlftn» n from Penn
sylvania states is not war, and he undertakes
to assert, that to defend our rights againfc
rvoiume xm.lawle(s attacks, is to produce war ; so that JHS
we are never to defend our.property but upon r a
th? principle of war. Has the gentleman to
learn what conftitmes a principle of war > He
fays our authorizing 4 convoys will produce
war. This, Mr. P. said, was a position which
he could not admit. When a declaration of
war is authorized, every treaty is done away,
and it would be lawful to seize Frenchmen,
or French property any where. But would
the authorizing of convoys introduce a state
of war > Because, if once intrqduced, it can.
not be terminated, except by atrtaty of peace.
It oufconvoys produced a war, h would be
such an one as would require no treaty to
terminate it. Were a declaration of war to
take place, a man who went from this coun
try to join the French army, woifld be a trai- j
tor, and a man who corretponded with any
perfpn in France, would be guilty of treason.
These are etfential characters of war. But it
is allumed by one of the jnoft refp-ftable 1
writers on the laws of nations, that defence is
not hostility ; no do mere reprisals amount
to war [Mr. D. read an extraft from
Vattel, in confirmation ot this opinion]. But
it is eviden*,.continued Mr. D. from the uni
versal law of nature, that men may defend
thrfmfelves agaiijtt violent and lawlefsattack. 7 0
This pr.nciple is also warranted by municipal j
law. .
Mr. D. laid, it was not intended that we
should do more than defend ourselves ;it was Set
not contemplated either to authorize reprisals
or captures ; and he called upon gentlemen U n
to state an authority which fays, tha there blet.
exists any r.ght of search, when vessels are ta. Sta
"ken under convoy. The quelHort whether a anc
velfel has enemy's or con'raband property on pj,.
board, was to be determined by some govern
ment; and when a nation takes vellels under
convoy, it is to be supposed they have exa- tw
minsti to fee that there is nothing improper oul
on board ; ahd the true reason why merchant
men are liable to be (earthed, is, that the na- th«
tional government does not fay any thing about
their being laden with goods not liable to be
seized. The matter is, therefore, referred to
the government to whom belongs the cap- _
turing v?flel. W J I
On thf right of neutral Rations to convoy wli
their veirels, there could be 110 doubt. lie (ha
referred to the armed neutrality, and to what I en ,
had been fa d on this head by three different
French mincers in this country. Genet, r
Fauchet and Adet, all complained that we ®ni
did not arm to protett our trade, an i because tar
we did not do it, they told us we abandoned by
our fights as a neutral fir:
If this amendment took place, Mr. D. ap- an
prehended it would drive 4.0,000 sailors from .
this country, into the service of the British,
or some other foreign pow.er, which would
prove a loss which ought not to be disregarded; pr
as they are a deserving and fuffering set of th
men; But) according to the doctrine ot the v ',,
gentleman from Pennsylvania, if a cargo was
fe zed, the owner, and those concerned, ought
to rejoice that the vttfel was saved; if the
vellel was taken, that the sailors were saved ;
if the fa lors were cast into prison, that they to
were not tortured with thumb-screws ; if St
tortureft with thumb-screws, that they were th
not starved to death ; and if starved to death, tc
that they were relieved from the pains and cfl
trmibles..ot mortality. Indeed, 1<« saw no li- .
mits to the fubmidion which he proposes.
He does not, it is true, fay that we ought to t"
submit to an attack on land, and there was ar
good reaion for it. He knows that many of
the citizens of America have arms in their t j,
hands ; that they have been trained to the d|
«fe of them, -nd that they want no cotumif-
fion to defend themfeives. He could not lrn
pofe fubm.flio», therefore, upon them.
1 Mr. D. then took a view of the amount of U
our exportsand imports to different countries, d,
in order to ihew the advantage of a convoy Q j
fo> our trade. The late French decree, he
said, (truck at all our Baft-India trade, as no
vellel came from thence without foihe article
of British manufacture on board, and even to '
our vellels bound to the French dominions tl
themfeives. So that that decree will go nearly
' to annihilate the trade of this country.
But it is said, this convoy ought not to be
provided, because the expence of effecting it,
will produce a land-tax ; but if it were consi
dered, that if commerce vcras destroyed, the
landed interest would not be able to pay any
thin" at all, he trulted a eonvov would not be J
objected to on this ground. Especially, when
it is evident that if we do not pay the expence
' of a convoy of ojir own, we shall have to pay
tor one to a foreign country. .
The gentleinin from Pennsylvania, and the
gentleman from Virginia, have both said they i
will not submit. But \vha f does> this declara
tion amount to ? Do they join in any measure
to defend the country ? They do not.
The state of the cafe, said Mr. D. is lhis.
If we will give France a certain sum of mo
ney, then Ihe tvill relinqnifh her piratical ;
practices. The demand is 30 millions of dol- ■
fars for this forbearance. He did not think 1
that France, in this refpeft, (toodupon so good j
a footing as Algiers, because he did not know ,
that the Dey had departed from his agree
ment ; but we have not the fame security
with France.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania lays
it will be cheaper to submit it* French de
predations, than to undertake our defence ;
he thought, however, ifwe were to submit at
all the tertns which the French themfeives
ottered *ould be much cheaper than thofc of
the gentleman from Pennsylvania. The
French depredations, it was supposed, some
time ago, amounted to fifteen millions—per
haps equal to four or five millions a year. The
French, on the other hand, propose a loan of
■,6 millions of dollars, the interest ot which
would be little more than two millions 1 ) and a
nation so famed as the Dutch for adherence
to their engagements would, certainly pay the
• principal. Besides, in the one cafe, we (hould
be at liberty to collect the money in any man
ner we pleased ; whilst. in the other, we mult
submit to be robbed of it by French corsairs.
If the tribute were paid, our merchants would
know upon what to rely; but, in the other
' tafe, the knowledge ot the hazard would be
more oppreflive to our commerce than the.
seizures themfeives. The reply of gentle
men, he supposed, would be, take the least
disadvantageous terms ; but, added he, i
fay I will take neither," and fat down.
V'llu Debate It he continued-J
" Just Publiflied,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflr«. Do»-
iOK,C*«nuL, Youmg and Oa>»*o»,
/ in Philadelphia.
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
I't which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op nion« and praflice of
different author,: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting inttrefl ing fa&s and r«flei9ion» relative to
I • the SV«:A- We,oid„, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftref. and mortality,
' at different periods, in several of the seaport
town, sf the-I'nited States of America.
' BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Mow of the Philadelphia Colh« of Fhyfician,.
and Member ef the American Ph.lofoph.c J So-
LAWS STATES.
® """""" j
Fifth % Congress of the United States : an( j u
AT THE BECOND SESSION, _ pUrfu
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, gt a te
in the State of Pennfylvanitf, on Mon- f renc
day, the thirteenth of November, 2 d
one thousand seven hundred tefj j
and ninety-seven. mer>
Whit
AN ACT addre
To provide an additional armament for the CX p r£
further proteHion of the trade of the United mc eti
States, and for other purpofet. grity
_ "I") E it enaSed by the Senate and p ort
Sec. J. Hau j e o j Jicprtfintetincs of the be ac
United States of America, in Congress afftm* p en( ]
bled, That the President of the United
States (hall be, and he is hereby authorized time,
and empowered, to cause to be built, pur- to
cha ed or hired a number of vefltls, not ex* was
cetding twelve, nor carrying more than j n g."
twenty two guns each, to be armed, fitted I j C
out and manned under his direftion. |
Set. 2. And be it further enaßcd, That , teflei
the number and grade of officers to be ap- J am t
pointed for the service of the said vefTels, comi
shall be fixed by the President of the United ,j ent
States, is well as the number of m?n, of
which the refpeftive crews (hall be composed, re f o i
who, as well officers as seamen and marines, t j, e ,
shall receive the fame pay and subsistence, be
entitled to the fame advantages and com
pensations, be governed by the fame rules
and regulations, and be engaged for the Y
fame time, and on the fame conditions, as M.
by an aft of the United States, passed the w ; t h
firft «f July, one thousand seven hundred ,
and ninety-seven, entitled " An ad provid
ing a naval armament,*' is ascertained and
established, as fully, as if the particular rj
provifions of that a ft, • having reference cQur
thereto, were herein inserted at large. Pro-
vided always,—And be it further enaSed,
That the President of the United States be, g
and he is hereby authnrifed to cause the ; £
term of inliftment of the seamen and marines | q ■
to be employed in any veflelof the United
States, to be extended beyond one year, if Qr( jj
the veff 1 (hould then be at sea, and until
ten days after such veflel (hall arrive in some Qur
convenient port of the United States there- t^a)
after ; any thing contained in this aft, or in ,
the aft intitled " An aft providing a naval '
armament" to the contrary notwfthttanding.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That
the officers of the aforefaid vefTels may, cr ;
during the recess of the Senate, be appoint
ed and commissioned by the President al >ne. a[)( j
Sec. 4. nd be it further enaSed, That t j m
' the turn of Oi efc'indred and fifty thousand , cQn
dollars be and are hereby appropriated out
of any monies, in the treasury of the Unit- {ral
ed States, beyond the appropi iations that
may heretofore have been charged thereon,
, for the purpose of carrying the objafts of j
i this aft into effeft.
JONATHAN DAYTON, JJ;
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON, v fat .
Vice President of the United States, f ur
and President of the Senate.
f United States, 1 tra
' Approved, April 27, 1798.3
john / Dams, £|j
President of the United States,
AN ACT
J For ere Sing Light Houses, and placing Buoys
and Stakes at the places therein mentioned.
e TJ Eit enafled by the Senate and House £
CC I J3 of Representatives of the United yQ
States of America in Congress assembled, That c jj
,1 as soon as a cession shall be made by the j. e
. State of Virginia to the United States, of ce
k the jurifdiftion over a traft of land pr iper
d for the purpose, the Secretary of the Trea
,v fury be, and he is hereby authorited to pro
vide, by contrast, to be approved by the '
y Prtfident of the United SUtes, for building ® e
si a Light House on Old Point Comfort, fn . a
the said (late, ar.d to fumifh the fame with
> all necessary supplies ; and also to agree for
at the salaries or wages "f the person or per- na
fons vho may be appointed by the President
le for the fuperintendance and care of the fame
le —and that the President be authorized to
r- make the laid appointments ; and a>foj that
le the Secretary of the Treasury be authorized
to cause fix buoys to be placed near the en
"a trance of Portland Harbour, in the State
ce of Ma(Tachufett«, at such places as, in' his
he opinion, will best secure the navigation of
Id the said port; and to cause the channel of
n- Warren river, From Narraganfet Bay, to the *
port of Warren, in tic itate of Rhode-Is-
land, to be flaked out and diftinftly marked. "
, er ' Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That
be .'(here be appropriated and paid, out of the
he. monies ariling from imports and tonnage,
' e_ the fun* of three thousand and fifty dollars,
for the purposes aforefaid. e
' 1 JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives. 0
TH: JEFFERSON, 1
Vice PrefideU of the United States, z
0B " and President of the Senate,
United States, 1
Approved, April 21798. 3 3
ous JOHN ADAMS, 1
President of the United States. '
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of 1
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering, 1
iich Secretary of State, '
ity, -
<°n TO RENT, 1
A good three story House, j
in> TWO rooms on each floor, with s convenient
So- Kitcheni-in Front, near Sou'th-flreet.-*—Enquire
s of the Printer. April so—3aw3w <
I %f)t
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Mat 2,
Cumberland County, New-Jersey.
The following resolutions were unanimpufly
agreed to by the inhabitants of Bridge
ton, assembled at the Court House, on
ihe 26th day of ApriS A. D* i 798.
Jonathan Elmer, in the hair.
John Moore iVbite, Secretary.
I ft. Resolved, That this meeting warmly
and unequivocally approve of the meafiires
pursued by the Executive of the United
States, forreftoring harmony between the
French Republic and these United States.
2d. Resolved, That Colonel David Pot
ter, general James Gi es, colonel Eli El
mer, Georg* Burgin, and John Moore
White, Efqrs. be a committee to prepare an
address to the President of the United States
expressive of the entire confidence of this
meeting in his wisdom, firmnefs and inte
grity, and their fettled determination to sup
' port all such constitutional measures as may
be adopted to secure the freedom and inde
pendence of this country.
[The committee, after retiring a short
time, reported an address, drawn agreeably
to the above resolutions ; which, being read
' was unanimously approved of by the meet
-1 3d. Resolved, That the address be lign
ed by the Chairman of this meeting and at
; | tested bv the Secretary ; and that General
James Giles and John Moore White, be a
> committee to present the fame to the Prefi
' dent,
r 4th. Resolved also, That the foregoing
> resolutions be published in fach manner as
> the committee may think proper.
! Attest :
JDHN MOORE WHITE, Sec'ry,
s
' Yesterday Gen. James Giles and John
5 M. White, Esq. waited on the President
: with the address which follows.
* To John Adams, President of the United
I \ States.
r Slß * ' . • ,
THE inhabitants of Bridgeton, in the
j County of Cumberland, New-Jersey, being
' convened in public meeting, and having
' taken into consideration the present critical
' : fituatiou of our national affairs, are desirous
e I of making known to you their unanimous
? opinion on the fubje£t.
, Although we disapprove of addresses on
.. ordinary occurrences, which refpedl the in
j terior concerns, or domestic administration of
e our national government, as we apprehend
that ou representative bodies and conftitut
n , ed authorities, are the proper constitutional
1 organ* for the political sentiment
»' and •will of the people ; yet, on %Ux ynknt
lt extraordinary occasion, refpedting our exferi
or intercourse with the French nation, in
which they appear evidently to be influenced
e * and encouraged, in their insults on our na-
# j tional charafter, and depredations on our
' commerce, by an erroneous opinion, that
Jt there exists a division, between the adminis
trators of the government and the people oi
at this country ; we esteem it an incumbent
n ' ; duty, to teftify our entire approbation oi
j your conduct, and full confidence in yout
adminiftrati»n, more especially in relation tc
the republic of France.
We have observed with much pleasure anc
fatisfadion.that the wife aud prudent mea
fures adopted by your predecessor, to pre
serve wid support a fair and impartial neu
trality with the belligerent powers of Eu
1 ope, and to protest the commerce of ou
country, have been steadily pursued by you
And though we firmly believe that the pre
sent misunderstanding between the republic
of France and America, cat not fairly be im
9" put»d to any unjuftifiable condutl on.th
, part of the latter, we, nevertheless, entirel
U J' approve of the inftrutftioni given to our en
voys to the French republic, and the cor
V" ciliatory and pacific endeavours which ha*
i been used, for accommodating the differer
0 ce9, and restoring a friendly intercourse an
5Cr good understanding with that government.
ea " While We express a just indignation at th
difgraceful treatment of our diplomatic 1
. e gents by the French DireSory, we fincerel
regret tbat tfce defiraWe abjeds of their tn
baffy, have hitherto proved unattai'nabh
L And thould it become necessary to repel, b
force, the unjust aggrefiions of any foreig
er " nation whatever, we are determined, at a
eilt events, to support the executive, and defen
me the honour, interest, and independence, (
, t0 our country.
j Signed by the unanimous order of tl
meeting.
en " TONA I'HAN ELMER, Chairman.
e /.ttefl,
, |n : Moore White, Secretary.
°|! Bridgeton, April 26, 1798.
To which the President was pleased to retui
_jf. the following ANSWER,
ced. To the Inhabitants of Bridgeton in the Cou;
'hat *y °f Cumberland in the State of Net
the J er /'y
I(re GENTLEMEN,
[3 rs ' TO you who disapprove of addresses
' compliment in general, and of the interp
fition of constituent* in the ordinary coui
ives national affairs, my thanks are more p;
ticularly due, for the part you have tak
at this extraordinary crisis.
be proposed by Oongrefs to France, in t
year 1776, fwlly.apprifed of the importar
of neutrality, I prescribed to myfelf a
f rule, to admit nothing which could co
0 f promise the United States in any futi
wars of Europe—ln the ncgociations
peace in 1782, Ifawftronger reasons th
, e ever before, in favor of that maxim.
The wife and prudent measures adopt
by my predecessor, to preserve and fuppi
a fair and impartial neutrality, with 1
belligerent powers of Europe, coincidi
nient ..° r . . j • • 1
quirt my own opinions and principles, ns<
jw ancient than the birth of the United Stal
could not but bi heart.'ly approved and fup-j Th<
ported by me, during his whole admtniftra
lion, and steadily pujrfued until this time.
Tt was, however, no part of the system ot
my predpeeffor, nor is it any article ot my
creed, that neutrality thould be purchased
with bribes, by th: facnfice of our sove
reignty, and the abandonment of our iride- OF
pendence, by the surrender of our moral d
charafter, by tarnishing our honor, by vi
olations of public faith, or by any means
humiliating to our own national pride, or J
difgraceful in the eyes of the world ; nor Sta
>vill I be the instrument of procuring it on f ro .
such terms. P re
I thank yon gentlemen for yaur candid the
approbation, and your noble assurances of the
support. jqhn At)AMS> Qu ;
Philadelphia, May l, 179®' l ' le
To the President, the Senate and the House of our
Representatives of the United States of A- ty,^
merica. , .
The address and memorial of the Citizens led
of Newark, in the State of New-Jer- wh
fey
RBsrscTTVLLT sntfrETH, • red
THAT memorials view the pre- rec
| sent time a* pregnant with events highly t ten
important to the peace, happiness and lafe- [ woi
ty of the Unired States, and therefore re- 1 full
quiring the roost perfedt una imity both in the
I the National Councils and amongst every inli
description of ci izens. i ord
The communications from our Commit- 1
fioners at Paris, and the iuftruaions given c la
Ito them by the President of the Unired ant
States, and which are now made public, . do
have produced a very happy efFe£t, by eon- o pi
I Vincing us that every mpafure confident Mt
with the honor, intercft and independence c la
of the United States, has been attempted fid.
Iby our government to effeft a good under- Pa
ftandirg between us and the French Repub- In
lie, and we lament that for want of a fimi- to
I lar disposition on the part of the French no
republic, all those endeavours have as yet pr
I proved abortive. th
j Your memorialtfts possess the mod un- ou
(haken confidence in the government, and to
' I trust that while they are pursuing just mea- C r<
I fares to produce an amicable adjustment of go
I all the existing differences which at present J th
I subsist between the French republic and the fe
I United States, they will at tfee fame time l o f
I be prepared with firmnefs to repel all at- I ty
I tempts that are made hostile to the peace, j E
I government and dignity of the United th
1 J States. I tr
I Your memorialists are fully persuaded I
1 I that the difference in opinion which has pre |
■ I vailed among the citizens of the United I
] States has been owing to delusion and mis- I
' I representation ; and that the information J
I lately received has led almost all our citi- I
' j zen« to a determination to rally round the I ni
[ I Constitution and to defend the fame with j p
c t our lives aud fortunes. j '*
ANSWER. t c J
' I To the Citizens of Newark, in the State of I
1 I New-Jersey. I u
- I GENTLEMEN, ' I t>
r I THE present period of universal effer- Ic<
5 I vefcencc through the world, is indeed preg- I *
' I nant with events highly important to the j
f J faf«ty-df all nations : that nation must be |
t I unponneifted with the reft of mankind, I n
'f I which can depend upon a total exemption I p
ir I from its feelings, and sympathies : the U- j h
° J nitrd States are so largely and extensively
I conne£ted, that they ought to have been 4
I sooner apprized of the necessity of unan- I F
l " I imity in council and among the citi2ens at I
I large. 1
I I rejoice with yon in any event which I *
J " I may have produced the happy effedt of unit- I
,r L'ng the people in supporting their own gov- I
J - I ernment, and opposing the> unreasonable i
e " I difpofitiofls of others. * j '
c * I thank you for your declaration of un- I
n " I (haken confidence in the government, and I
le I for your advice, to be prepared with firm I
'y j ness, to repel all attempts that are made, I
n " I against the peace, government, and dignity I
n " los the United States, hut I kaow of no I 1
re furthermeafures that can be pursued to pro- I c
n * I duce an amicable adjustment of differences I '
I with the French republic. I '
• I Ihe delusions and misrepresentations, 1 1
I which have milled so many citizens are ve- I '
a * Iry serious svils and must be difcountenan- I '
! y j ced by authority, a« well as by the citizens 1 !
n " lat large, or they will soon produce all kinds I ;
I of calamities in this country.
I If the late inforntation lias led almost all I
5 n I oar citizens to a determination torally round I
I the Constitution, and defend it with their I
I lives and fortunes, I congratulate you most j
I sincerely on this happy event, so auspicious I
I to the fafety, greatness and glory of /aur I
I country.
JOHN ADAMS.
j Philadelphia, May lfl, 1798.
ANSWER
. jOf tfle President of the United States, 1
Irn I to the Resolutions of the Citizens of j
George Town, publiihed in Saturday's
in- I Gazette.
w- To the Citizent of Georgetown, in the State oj
I Maryland.
gentlemen,
of I Mr. Craik, the Representative of your I
po- j Diftrift, has presented to me, in your name, j
irfe j a copy of the Refohitions passed at a nume- I
>ar- rous and refpedable meeting of the Citizens
sen of George , Town, the twenty-firft of this
month.
to Yout-appFobation of the inflrudtions to
the our Minilltrs to France ; your estimation
nee of the H»nor and "Independence of your
is a Country, as the firft national objeft, and
jm- more estimable even than the bltfllngs of
lire Peace ; your confidence in the Constituted
of Authorities of your Country, and in the
han unanimity and patriotism of your fellow citi
zens, the American People, are honorable
ited to yourselves, the Government and the Na
>ort tion ; and the communication of them at
the this crisis, cannot fail to be agreeable to all,
ling but the enemies of thisCouutry.
sore JOHN ADAMS,
tes, Philadelphia, /pril 27th, 1798.
The following we learn is a copy of the Ad
dress, adJpted by the meeting held at
Cammeron'i, in Soutbwark.
To JOHN ADAMS,
Preftdent of the United State.
THP ADDRBSS _ - J
Of the Young Men of the City of Phila
delphia, the Diftrid of S*uthwark, and
the Northern Liberties.
Sir.
At a period so interesting to the United
States, permit uts to believe that an Addreft
from the Youth of Philadelphia, anx.ous to
prefeve the Honour a-d Independence ot
their Country, will not be unwelcome
their Chief Magistrate. •
Adhiated by the fame Principle* on which
our Forefathers atchieved their Independence
the recent Attempts of a Foreign Power to
derogate from the Dignity and Rights of
our Country, awaken our liveliest SenfibOli
ty, and our'ttrongeli Indignation.
The Executive of the United States, fil
led with a spirit of Friend (hip towards the
whole world, has res rted to every Just and
Honourable Means of c iiciliaring the Af
fections of the French Republic, who have
received their Pr pqfi'tions of Peace with de
! termined Hoftiliry and Contempt ; have
l wounded our National Independence by in
flating its Rtpr: fentatives ; and calumniated
the Honour and Virtue of our Citizens, by
insinuating that we were a Divided, Insub
ordinate People.
' The Youth of the American Nation will
claim some Share of the Difficulty, Danger,
and Glory of its Defence ; and although we
j do not hold ourselves competent to form an
opinion refpefting the Tendency of every.
Measure, yet we have no Htfitation in do»
daring, that wf place the moll entire Con.
fidence in your Wisdom, Integrity, and
PatriotiCm; that we. regard our.Libertf and
Independence »& the richest portion given
to us by our Ancestors ; that we perceive v
no difference between the Illegal and Op
prefiive Mea/nres. of one Government and
the InfoUnt Attempts now made to usurp
our Rights by another ; that as our ances
tors have niagnanimoufly refilled the Ens
croachments of the one, we will no less Vi
goroujly oppose the Attacks of the other ;
that at the Call of our Country, we will as
semble with Promptitude, obey the Order«
' of the Conftitu'.rd Authorities with Alaeri
• ty, and on every Occasion A& with all the
. Exertion of which we are capable } and for
i this we.pledge purfrlv«s to you, to our Coun
try, and to the World.
1
From the Peterjburg Intelligencer.
TALLEYRAND PERIGORD.
1 ' At this critical period of affairs betwixt the T7*-
nited States and France, some account of the pre
sent afiive leader of the affairs of the Utter, may
e not be unacceptable—T. P. The exil'd bishop o£
'1 Autun, fought far and found an asylum from hi#
blood gained, democratic countrymen, in this
country In 1796, he was in Pennf f Ivania, and
r there surveyed the lands on Bald Eagle Creek, the
' moil fcrtiln in the state, and, being by the gloriops
uncertainty of the revolutionary wkieel about to
be recalled to France, his native country, he wifely
•- considered that the part of a democratic hero, n?-
.. ver proved very lading ; and as he might
(land in Heed of his former friendly recreat, hi
purchased a trail of an immense amount «f R.
e Morris ; the deeds were drawn, but were to re
1, main in the hands of a gentleman of Philadelphia,
n provisionally, until T. P ihould be enabl«d by his
f. honed siertionsin Fiance to pay thepnrchafe mo
ney. The 5>»,oool. lately demanded for him as a
y douceur for permitting the Envoys United
n States, to an interview with the Directory of
1- France, may perhaps be repaid in Philadelphia.
It The above are fails that can be fubftantiatad by
the psrfon who drew the de«ds and trarifa&ed the
, whole bufisefi.—H. is ready to come forward, if
required.
[* ALEXANDRIA, April 26.
At a meeting of the inhabitants of the toivn of
Alexandria held yjlerday, pursuant to no
d tificatien, the following Resolutions -were a
v g re ed to, and direStd to be forwarded to the
e> Preftdent of the United States,
y Ref'lived, That the profpeiSt of an impen
lt> ding rupttue with the republic of France, is
B . one which is deeply to be deplored ; and
, s that war and all measures of conflict that
lead direfiUy to hostilities with that or any
S) other nation, are only to be»juftified by cau
c. Fes which affeft our national independence,
n . but that when these exist, and are not Ux lb*
ns averted by means of amicable negociation,
[l s arms become the natural, equitable, and
indispensable resort.
a ]j Refolded, That the measures which have
n( j been adopted and pursued by the executive
.; r of the United States, to obtain retribution
for injuries, and to reltore harmony between
, us us and the French republic,' have been tru
iur ly wife and patriotic ; the event having a
bundantly proved, that an the part of France
there exists a corrupt adminiilration, to
whom a further application on the principles
ofjuftice, must continue to be nugatory.
Resolved, That while a hope is chtrifhed
eg , that foms foreign political event may soon
0 f take place, to obviate present appearance!
y» s and diilipate the gloom of war, it is expe
dient nevertheless, for the government of
10 j this country, to adopt with promptitude
effectual measures of defence ; to aft like
the rulers of a free and independent nation,
our whose situation and internal resources ena
me) ble it to scourge every invader of its rights
me. or territories, and that in conformity with
ens these fentimenta the citizens of Alexandria
.his promise a faithful co-operation with the ad-
cheerful and prompt com
-Ito pliance'witli any degree or mode of taxation
:ion whivh fliall be deemed necessary or expedi
our eut.
and Resolved,. That the foregoing resolutions
; 0 f be publilhed in the Alexandria newfpapevs
)le d ! and that a copy of them be transmitted to
the the Prcfident of the United States, the Pre
citi- Went of the Senate and Speaker of the
able House of Representatives.
Na- Resolved, That E. C. Dick, J«hn Fitz'
1 at gerald, Robert Hone, James Keith and
1 all, William Herbert, are appointed a commit
tee to prepate an addrefsto the President of
3. the United Statss, inclosing the foregoing
refo'.utions.' NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. and Mr. W ARRELL.junr's
Night. .
, THIS EVENING, May.2.
Will be presented, (not ailed thex two
the favorite COMICOPER A. called
LIONEL' AND CLARISSA,
OR.
THE SCHOOL FOR FATHERS- |
Lionel, mr Marlhall ; Col. Oldboy, mr War
ren ; Sir John FJowerdale. Mr Fennell; Jeffamy
ms Bernard ; Jenkin, inr Darley ; ttarman, nlr
Clarifia, mrs Warrell; Lady Oldboy, mrs
L'Eftrange ; Jenny, miss Mtlbourne ; Diana,
mrs Oldroixon.
At the end of the Opera.
A favorite DANCE, (not performed these
three years) called
THE SPORTSMAN DECEIVED.
The principal eharailers by Mr. Warrel!, jun.
Mrs. Do&or, and Miss Millbourne.
To which will be added, a PANTOMIME,
(never performed here) with a variety of new
tricka, scenery, &c. composed, fele<£led, and
pqder the direftion of Mr. Warrell, jun.
< called
FORTUNATUS;
OR,
HARLEQUINS WISHING CAP.
Harlequin, (with an Epilogue) And leap
through a Cade of Fire, mr Warrell, jun. Sir
Toby Tipple, (the Pantaloon for that night on
ly ) mr Francis ; Jemmy Jumps, (the lover for
that night only) mr Byine ; Pero, mr Doiftor j
Clown, mr HlifTeu ; Barber, mr Lavency ;
Lamp-Lighter ( with a long in character) mr
Fox ; Cobier,' mr Warrell ; Waiter, mr John
ftoae ; Shoe Black, ms Hunter ; Lads, meflrs
Jjvancv, 'A'irreil, M'Lane, Merfier, &c.
Mrs .Doctor, mrs Hunter, madam
Harwhod, &c. nc
Porturte, miss L'Eftrange ; Columbine, miss
Millbourne'; • Filher Women, mr» Hunter,
madam Harwood, &c. &c.
Jn the course of the Pantomime, will be intro
duoedthe f«llovfring Trieks,
THE MAGIC GOBLET, LOBSTEK, HARLE
QUIN'S WONDERFUL ESCAPE.
From his puifuers, by a Jump into a
HALF GALLON CASE BOTTLE.
The DifTedlion of Harlequin by being toiTed in
a Blanket, and Reftorat on—A new fe ne of
A Fountain with a leap and tranf
formation to a Cobler's Stall.
The reconciliation to conclude with the
much admired
LETTER DANCE.
In the course of which mr Pox (for the fourth
time) will Gng tke celebrated FEDERAL
SONG, (written by a Citizen of Philadelphia)
adapted to the Tune of
THE PRESIDENT'S MARCH.
Tickets to be had at the ufnal places, and at
*fr. Carr's Musical Repository, Market-street,
and .at !Mr. Wairell'# No. 89, South Fourth
ftreet, ,
On Friday a TRAGEDY, (not
afted this fe son) called The Grecian Daugh
"*lter, with The Death of General Wolfe —and
a New Panto,mime, called The Magic Cef
ius ; or Harlequin, junior—For the Benefit
of Mr and Miss Milbourn 1 .
THIS DAY, ...
From oh toard the ship Alexander, capt. Brown,
jronx Jacquemcl, at Wilcocks' wharf, about
80,000 wt. of fine Green Coffee
in J ogflieads, barre!s and bags
For Sale—appfi to
John Wh'tteftdes & Co.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
, . Claret of the firft quality, in cases
spril'jo. §6t
FOR SALE,
By the subscribers. No. 2i, Penn-flreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
.• n ; .• ConJtJiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
ColTaes Punjum" Cloths
Sanah* ,Git<zeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Bkie Cloth Tanjibs
Cliinti and Calicoes MulrnuU
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmu: do.
a Guzzenas Band an noes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
ao6 tons SUGAR
{O,OOO lb PEPPER.
Willings Iff Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to fafe at that
commodious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats fix feet water can go
irom this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, proviCons, wet or dry
.goods. Letter* directed to the fubferiber at this
place, and put into any post office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Those whowifli to centra Ain Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gidion Hill
Wills, No. 13J, Market-street. The fubferiber
is defiroiis of contracting with fom« responsible
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
him, on commiflion, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William ITtll Wells,
Dagfboroiigh, (late of Delaware,
april »8. M*4w
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the brig Enterprise, capt. Lang
don, from Jamaica.
60 hogsheads of good SUGAR, and to
(o,ocowt.of primegreeU drawback.
And For Sale by
WHARTON LEWIS,
No 115, South Front street.
Who have lilewife for sale,
A quantity of 4thpro»f Jamaica Rum
MolalTes, and
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil
\ tew bbls. excellent Limes
april 14. ' iolot
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North AmericitiiLand Company, /landing
on the Books of f*id Company in the name of
Dan e.l l.iftcr, of Hackney, in tile county of Mid
dleftx, England—viz. No. tljl, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 2150 —13066 to
tjo->5, ten (hart*—No. 2145 —1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 1148 —HJO9 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. H47 —H4?X to 11489 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were fqr warded for London by tke
(hp William Peln, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loll; for the r*
newal ef which, applicajion will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 •d6w
FOR SALE,
CBy Pojlponement,)
At Public Vendue, on the 7th of May next, at
7 o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants'
Coftee-Houfe,
THE FOLLOWING
PRODUCTIVE REAL ESTATES :
No 1. A good THREE STORY BRICK
HOUSE, jo feet front, and 13 feet deep, with
the privilege of a four feet alley. It is situated
in Plumb-street, between Front and Second
ftreets,inapleafantand improving part of South
ward
4. A genteel three-story brick House in Fr»nt
street, between Race and Vine street 5, Nc£ 171,
north—it goes through to Water street, where
it is five ftorieshigh, the wllple in comple'at re
pair, and now rented for 600 dollars per ami.
3. A handsome, well finished three-ftcry
brick House, in south Second .street, No- 165,
it is 30 feet front, and' 45 feet deep. The Lot
runs through to Dock-fireet, on which is built
a good two-story brick house : The whole was
let before repaired for 800 dollars and the taxes.
4. A well built three-story brick house, situ
ated in Cfccfnut-ftreet, between Front and Se
cond streets, being 18 feet front, And about *OO
feet running through to alley,
on which it is 31 feet front, with a coach house
and stable. There are ten good yi c6m
pleat repair, and cellar tinder the whole, clear of
gi'onnd rent and eyery other incumbrance.
5. A good Plantation, fitusted near Hights-
Town, East New-Jersey, containing 186 acres,
well improved land, with plenty .of woodland,
orchard and meadow, in a healthy situation and
a good neighbourhood.
6. Another Plantation adjoining the preced
ing, containing also 186 acres. On which is a
frame f>oufe and liable, with a large orchard of
grafted fruit, a good well of water, and a large
body of swamp, well umbered.
7. Also another plantation, adjoining- the
firll mentioned ; it contains 186 acres, part of
which is good meadow, a large quantity of val
uable swamp, a very convenient farm house,
barn, stable, and a good new well of excellent
water.
Also, a number of BUILDING LOTS, 100
feet front (on the great road leading.to Amboy)
and 300 feet deep ; adapted particularly for
tradesmen.
For further particulars or purchase at private
file, apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, fen. or,
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH,
april 28. 28&39 A 2,4,6,7 M
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Fran kl In, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBICKI2ER, : !
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and baikets
Lunelle ">
Sauterne f , lr . . ' ■
Macarty, and ( W,B " m Cafe! -
Medoc J
• Thomas Murgatrqydf.
II No. 11, Walnut Street. »
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes } tniitted
Irifli market "> .... . , C to
Medoe, and Sau f erne j meS in Ca es " j drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter caiki
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bulhels t iverpoolSalt. • -
march 19 mw&ftf
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit £or immediate use, in pipesi half
pipes and Quarter caiks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glafs-?-all of which will be fold
on vary reafeoable terms, by
John Craig,
march I wstf No. i», Dock Street.
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDtR THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson S? Go.
IS this day dissolVed by mutual Consent, all thbfe
having claims against (aid firm, are desired' to
render their accounts,-and thofeindebted to make
payment to Joseph Da.vidfon, whoja dhly aittho
rifed to fettle the affairs of 'he concern.
JOSEPH J". MILLER,
JOSFPH D virisoN.
N. B. The Stores at the corner •( Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquired Jo
seph Davidion.
April a 6 w&s2m
' BRANDT.
The Cargo of the Danish. Brig Concord,
FROM CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftrest
wharf.
xoo pipes 4th proof 7 r~<l. • T> J
.60 do ift do. j Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Railins, &c.
For Sale by (
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavi* Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
xio hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do v do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipe 9, hhds. and qr. cases
Madeira, London partitular, in pipes, very
superior
a P r 'l diw eoti7M
in the lhip Phoenix,
Richard Grice, master, from I mfterdam,
A qnantity of LintfeeJ Oil, 5 -and i
Two cases low pricad Lioes Checks
For sale by
George Pcnnock.
»P"1 '9- _ eotf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of hi« Creditors, to James
C. Filher, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to fur'nifli their accounts without delay
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subfcribets, a<9ing Affgnees.
'James C. & Samuel W. Filher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 • '-J.'^.^tawtf
PHILADEL PHIA ,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Mat 2.
The House of Reprtfentatives of the Uni
ted States, yesterday, went .into a Commit
tee of the whole on the bill authorizing the
President of the United States ta build or pur
chase a ntimber of linall vellels, to tx equip
ped as Gallies, or otherwise, was rt- i
ported without debate or and
Ordered to be-read a thirt! tin»e Vo-tnorrow.
A report was made by Mr..Harper, from
the Committee of Ways and.Mtans, recom
mending a direst tax 011 lands, houses and
Haves, to the amount of Two Millions of
Dollars, to be raised from the feveml States .
according to the conSitutfonal rule, and a
gretably to the lalt census. On motion to
Commit this Report, it was obje&ed to by
Mr. Bayard and Mr. Champlin that the 1
report had not been laid before the committee ! •
of ways and means, and on that account (and j i
not freun any particular objection to the report j
it(elf) it was re-committed. Mr. Sewall j .
also made a report on the lubjeft of the Natu ;
ralization of Aliens, which recommends pr«-\l 1
visions to be made by law for prolonging the .' j
term of residence before Aliens be admitted. ■
citizens ; for a report and registry of all Ali- i
ens who shall continue residents, or shall here
after arrive within the United States, with
suitable descriptions of their places of birth
and citizenlhip, and places of arrival and re
fidtnee within the United States ; for the ap
prehending, securing, or removal, as the cafe
maytequire, os-all Aliens being males of the
age of fourteen years and upwards, who (hall
continue to reside, or shall arrive" within the.
United States, being natives, citizens, or
fubjerts of any country, v the : government
whereof shall declare war "against the United
States, or shall threaten, attempt,, or perpe
frite any invafloti or predators' tQCirff)o»s up
on their-territory, as soon, as.rtiay be, after
the President of the Unitejd States (hall make
proclamation of such event ; providing in all
cases, where such Aliens are not chargable
with a&ual hostility, that' the period fettled
by any treaty with such hostile nation, or o
ther"reasonable period, according to the usage
of nations and the duties of. humanity, (hall
be allowed for the departure of"fuch Aliens,
with all their effefts from the territory of t|je
United States j.and excepting all*
such Aliens, to wjiom passports or licences of
residence may be granted, confidently, with
the public lately. Referred to the commit
tee of the whole on the State of the JJnion.
Cj" The Youth of Philadelphia and Li
berties are informed, that a copy of the ad
dress to the President, is deported at the
Library, to which, between the hours of
two and fix, P. M. they may place their
signatures, if they think proper—Also at
the City Tavern.
THE MANAGERS
j Of the Theatre deserve much credit fcjr
the honourable and splendid manner j'n which
.ihfji: received SVtCl«ftrevening, and
the performers certainlyexerted their several
talents in the parts allotted to them' with
uncommon ability. The interlude was ele
gant, suitable to the occasion and truly A
merican. Although I am "not a friend to
Stage Dancing, I was highly gratified with
the novel, graceful and aftiye. exhibition of
Mr. and Mrs. Byrne. But the audience !
no man whpwas not there can .bavcan. idea
of the loud bursting enthusiasm, the heart
felt rapture with which they received their
refpe&ed President, and the constant ftiouts 1
and huzzas which rung through the house
in honour of him through the whole even
ing. The National Songs met with un
bounded applause " Firm—united—let us
be" was the universal feriiiment ; and this
chorus was j'oined in. by the andienee with
general enthjufiafm and great effeft. If t \
hated Bache and some cthen eyen more than j
they hate their country and government, I f
could not wilh them a greater punishment,
than to have obliged them to have been at
the Theatre last avening, andjto have \yitnef
fed the joyful return of American feeli'ngs
and sentiments ; and the entire.banilhment
of those, execrahle French murder fho'uts
which once disgraced our p'aces of public,a r
mufement. In the course of the night,
which was remarkrbly mild and serene, ' a
great number .of gentlemen,
with a Batid of Music, ferenad«d the Prtfi'-
dent and the Heads of the DepartmentS'.aiid
the author of the Song,. \vith.t|ie /ie>v Song
" HAIL Columbia . l kajppy; Jflnd."
The fpirit'of America is aroused—Let its
enemies beware.
A correspondent observes, that it certain
ly is difgraceful that no efforts have yet been
made to repair the Germantown roads, which
were so extremely cut during the winter,
a? even now to be very disagreeable, when
you have to turn out ; besides which, thsre |
are several holes that are very dangerous.— i
There certainly must be some radical defeft i
in the law, or great negleA in the fupervi- ;
for.—Had the ruts been levelled and the i
holes filled up during the dry weather, we >
(hould have probably had a tolerable road |"
during the summer ; for want of this, every ]
rain of any consequence will, instead of be- [
ing drained off, fill up the ruts, and keep !
the roads continually bad. It is hoped the
supervisor will take the hint.
The printers in the city will oblige by
giving the above a place.
THE LATE MR. SADLER.
On the 20th ult. the remains of Matthi
as Sadler, were attended to St. Paul's
churchyard, by .numerous chitens, his af
fedrionate acquaintance and friends } and
the funeral there, fo'emnized. He was a
member of the common council, and of o
ther refpe&able bodies in this city ; highly
esteemed in his public, as well as privite de
portment. It was in the weflern expedi
tion of 1794, '« when the people willingly j
offered themselves," to protect the dignity
and peace of our national affairs, that Mr.
Sadler caught the beginning of that ill
ness which has now deprived us of him in
the midst of hit days, and which he bore j 1
with a religious firmnefs. He had been
before, of a ftruftute and apparent
ly so healjLful and goodly, as promifcl, in
rhe-vievof human expectation, a lung J Sc.
It can be truly said, he was a candid, intel
ligent, brave man. While his memory wi!J
be valued by all who knew him, thcfe traits
in particular will Jong imprefe our recollec
tion, namely ; hid fidelity in the trust? re
posed in him, of whatever kind ; his abil
ity in his profeffional chara&er as an ar
thitefl; the uncommon exemplary care he
took in inftruftion of his young men;
and the placid obliging temper which en
deared him, as toothers, so pre-eminently
to his own family.
A SIMILE. \
[ Taken from an Irtjb: Paper.
I \yas fitting the other night, muling otj
what could occasion the word vnioji to be
treasonable, when looking on the fire I ob-
fe was just expiring ; I colleflea the
few embers, 3nd what scattered fuel remain
! Ed, and in a few minutes a flame gradually
; overspread the whole mass, combining both
I utility and beauty. Since such advantage
| itiay be derived from a union of (he particles
; of unanimated matter, how much more be
■| neficial would it be fbr.lhe world if all man
kind, " like brethren, dwelt together in
i unity J" , -
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. DATS.
Schr. Sally, Gorman, Charleftou 10
Arrived at the Fort the schooner
ham from the Havanna.
Baltimore, April 30.
Arrived on Saturday lafl, the Patani'co, J. Mit
chcll mafler, from Batavia, in 4 months and Ij
days, [aft from the Cape of Good Hope, which
Ihe left the 24th oFFcbruary.
Lett at Batavia, December nth, the ship Elils
beth, captain lfaac Stone, of Boston, nearly load
ed ; captain, supercargo, officers, all sick, and
some of the crew dead.
Tebi uary 7-—Off Cape L gullas, spoke fhiD Hu
ron, of iVew-York, 3 months 5 cays from Bour
deaux, with passengers bound to Tranqoebar, all
well. >
March 45, spoke a Ihip belonging: to Liverpool
from Congp, with slaves, bound to Jamaica, in
law I, north.
a, was boarded by the ship Duke of York
of London, capt. Fow\er Wat foil, and the ship
Phscton, tapt. Vicary, ofLondon, letters of mar
que, 19 -days from Maderia, baund to Jamaica,
with the brig flying Filh, of Guernsey, under con
voy!
April sth, was brought to by the Ihip
Kitty, the fliips William and Dominica
Packet, all letters of marque, from Liver
pool bound to Barbadoes.
Captain M. left Table-Bay the 2d of Fe
bruary. Left there the (hip Hope of New-
York, under seizure.
BritifhJhips of <lwar at the Cape of Good Hope,
and off the Mauritius, viz.
Tremendous, .74, admiral Pritlgle.
Sreprre, <s + ,
Statelyj 64, preparing for India
to get coppered.
Reasonable, 64, stationed off the ifiand
of Mauritius.
Jupiter, 50. ditto.
Trusty, 50,
L'lmperieux, 44, preparing to fail for
India, where she is
ordered on station.
Brave, 44, stationed off the Mau
ritius.
jLe Virginia, 44, ditto,
j Crefsent, 36, preparing to take ad
miral Pringle to
England. Admi
ral Christian takes
bis place.
Sphinx", 20,
Rattlesnake, 161 stationed off the
j Star » br 'g» 16 j Mauritius.
] Hope, 16,
Euphftiftc, 16.
Charleston, April 17.
arrived. days.
Ship Mary,"Safford, Oenock 49
John, Boardmafi, Amsterdam 55"
Schooner Dolly, Taylor, Psxifacola^3
The Englilh channel swarms with Britifli
crtiifers.
The (hip Adventure, Prentifs, has arrived,
fafe at GlasgoW, from this port.
The fliip Lueretia, Seabury, was to fail
in seven or eight days after the Mary, for
this port.
CHARLESTON, April 1798.
Capt. Boardman from Amsterdam draws a
melancholy pidture of the Dutch nation ;
the liberty and equality,, bestowed upon
them by thei r French conquerors, have,
with fraternity added to it, reduced them to
poverty, distress and repentance.. Several of
the principal fupportersand conniversof the
Dutch revolution have been banilhedby the
i French ; who, it seems, like the treason
t kut not the traitors. 1 he Dutch Burghers
j have relinquished their medern title of Ci- j
| toyen, and now address each other as Myn
j heers. The French were getting the Dutch
I troops asfaft as poflible out of Holland and
j replacing them with their own, the number
; of which was already doubled. After drain
j ing Holland of its wealth, by deftroving ifs
! commerce, they have now afleffed their real
eftaSes with a tax of 52 per ceut. and had
also ordered them to get inreadiaefs the rem
nant of their naval force, for French expedi
tions.—Capt. B. fays, that so far from the
Dutch thinking of invading England, tliey
are in constant fear of an Englilh fleet en
tering the Texel, and destroying the few
<hips they have left. \
QUEBEC, -April 5. -
On Tuesday, the 27th of March ultimo,
came on in the Court of King's Bench of
Criminal Ju'rifdiftion for this Diftrift, the
Trial of Charles Frichette, a .Canadian,who
was indi&ed in September last £<jr mif.rilion
of high Treason, in haying a knowledge 0?
the designs of the late David M'Lar.efwho
was executed on the 2rft «f July lalt for
High Treason) againlt this province, and
concealing them. The evidence was so clear
j against him. tftat the Jury without retiring
from their Box, found a'rerdidl of Guilty
On h;s Counsel were heard upon a
motion in arrest qJ judgment, which was
over ruled by the Coifrt ; aod by the judg
ment which was pronounced on the 31ft*
all .his moveable property is declared forfei
ted to vhe King", together - with the profM
of "all his immoveable e&itei {and he is 01 <•
dered to be imprisoned during life.
The Synod of Philadelphia
Is to meet by adjournment, in the firft Pref->
byterian Cliureii in Philadelphia, on Ttiefilay
the fifteenth day of May next, it 3 o'clock P. m.
The General Assembly of the Prefby
tenan (ihurch, in the United States of America,
is to meet in the third Prylbyterian Church, in
said city, on Thurfiliy the seventeenth of May
next, at eleven o'clock \. m. arul not on Tvlef
day, as (by an error of thrprefa) was publifhcd
in the extradH from their minutes.
ASHBEL GREEN, Stated Clerk
of the Xjcyc-n! Aff-nbh.
NATHANIEL IRWIN, Stated
april 17., Clerk tf the Synod.
T,he fabferibers of the above notice take
the liberty nf reqtiefting the favor of Newfpri •
;ers in Phihdelphia, New-York, Baltimore,
Richmond, York (borough), Lancafler, Car
lisle and Fafton in Maryland, to give it a single
ihfertion in their papers.
Robert Field,
:• MINIATURE PAINTER,
Ha* rcmOvad to No. 106,' Walnut ftteet, be«
twecn Fourth and Fifth flreets.
mav t- dtw
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sutn»
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made to fij't the pur^hafers.—
These fituatiens are con!:dered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and good »t all
feaibns of the year. The title indifputable—A
plan of the grounds h in the hand« of the fuh
ftriber," A bo will make known the terms on ap
pjcatidn to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
'nay 2. tfawtf
HEALTH OFFICE.
1 Philadelphia, J May, 1798.,
Extraft of an afl to alter.and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, pjfied 4th April
1798.
Sea. S- A ND te furtl "- er enabled by the au
■l*- ttyrity aforefaid, That every house
keeper within the city ®f Philadelphia, the town
ships of the Northern Liberties and Moyam»nfing,
and diftria of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mits of the city, taking in boarders arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving any boarder in hi«or her family, who fnall be
taken sick of aay disease between the
firft day ef May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after fuih boar'
der shall cone to lodge in his or ber houfc, (hall
within 24 hours next after the knowledge; of such
sickness. make report at the Health Office of the
name of such sick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and place of abodfc of such house
keeper; whereupon the Physician of the Health-
Office fhill forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, tnat measures may be taken to prevent the
spreading of the infeaion; and if any houfekecper
shall negled to give information in the manner and
within the time aforefaid, and (hall be thereof con*
viaed, in any court of criminal jurisdiaion within
this Commonwealth, upon indi&meit by Terdift
or confeffion, he or /he (hall forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hefpital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor mote than one hundred dollars, to be
impofsd at the discretion of the court, according to
the circumstances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafc.
By order of the Board of Koalth,
WM, ALLEN, Health Officer,
law3m of t h e p po t of Philadelphia.
Madeira Wine. ~
A few pipes of remarkably fsne Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
sale b y JAMES YARD.
may a. .
Distillery to Let,
O CONTAINING THREK STILLS.
Zzr** 9 °°.r UoD —" *°° g aiir - n ».
the other 300 gallons—together with putnpUnd
interns,-all m compleat order and maybe entered en
Zl c 3 C"°' 19 C «ceMe« Vu
f oil were f or the
and wit) be so d cheap. For further particular en
qmreof John M'CaVlsy, No. 73, South Second
PPCr WatthOU!c ' No - 8 9. *>«.,
r*;,? A , f ™ an p ,,c r el of »Mn Copper fit for
meathlng or building—a few br,xes of Tin—one new
Itili aud complcat that Will hold 3 go gallons
andoue lecond Hill that will hold 550 gallons, for
iale—enquire as above,
wi y
WANTED
A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who underMands House work. None
this office Chariacr nced a Pp'y—Enquire at
ma y»' . 6t
ball.
The Last Night this Season,
MVc^ CIS ' at the P artlc ular request of
. RXT t" Scbo ' ,r ' clofes J he P rer e" season with
femhl °" « /~ y Ma V the third > at his af
femb.y room South Fourth-ffreet, between Chef
nut and Walnut-streets. Gentlemens' tickets
one DolUr each. Ladies tickets as bfual to be
EightLi P r£ ng t0 Mr> FranCi6 ' N °- 7 °' North
may %
New Publication.
A Sensible, Seasonable and Spirited '
address,
Written by a Citjren of Ph.iadelph.a-^ntitled,
vVhat is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpeds ?"
-d fci" Pages for American}.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG
Co . rn " f befiiut and Second streets,
And at the PfSee of the Editor, 1, 9 Chefnut fir
( fir tec three JtxteentLs gf a dollar J
?xtraa from the abote.
" \yhen hour by hour we are yieldin?
point by point ; relinquidiing one right to
day and preparing to facrifiee another, to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new concc-fTien
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more lnfoient by uninterrupted success, and
tinud lubmiffion invites depredation-Wbtrs
will this end } Wh'at offering will . o r K e the
rTrafAZ 6 ?' ° r s PP eafe °!'e rage
of unrefifted hoft.lity ? No Jviiized nation
ha, ever before been guilty of such fautregc
and jnf lence, nq free nation has ever be
fore endured them,"For Sale, |
new a '^ n s I
JOHANNA TUCKER, IN
_ Francis Days, Majltr, '
NOW lying at Pine Street wharf—her length is
Cx'y eighWeet, Breadth twenty feet fix inches, depth
eigh feet ni»e inches and burthen one hundred and I
four 69-95 tons. For terms apply to the Matter I
onboard, or 1
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 168, South Front Street.
April 16 §4t wi
JUST ARRIVED, ~ AI
In tl e brigGayofo.capt. Bingham, from St. Martini
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce porter Bottles, new
And twenty caiks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE, A
Enquire of
Jehu Hottingjvmrtb & Co.
No. »a, Little water street, South. A
april to. * §
for Sale, at the Stores of'the Sub
fcriberi, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 casts of nai!» alTorted
10 bales »f fail canvass, from No. I te 8
53 qalks yell 1* rchre
15 tierce* bottled po.ter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) Madeira Wines
India market J
Tenenffe do. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds. '
Empty Claret bottles .
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta &c.
alTorted for the Weft-India marker 1
4, 10, and9inch cab'esand 10 coils »f cordage
Writing fiates, ink Sands aid preifes
40 purcheont Jamaica rum
X bale seaming twine
X6O Bundles (heatt.ing paper
THE BRtG
AMAZON,;
For Sale, or Charter. -
Nicklin llf Griffith.
April 7 tuth&faf
FOR SALE.
'O7 do"browb| Havannah Sugar
ioo Hides
Will be lan led to morrow, at Willings.and Fran
'cis's wharf, from on board the brig Awlive, Will-
hm Williams, matter.
faid Brxgforfal6,
*!*»' And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to '
Jehu Hollingfiuorth & Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh, /
A
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majltr, /
great partofher cargo en*
gignd.—For freight apply to
Jeff's is" Robert Wain. j 1
February »6 - .
WANTED, . I
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for which
calh will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents /'
pc.r guilder. Enquire of the Cashier of the Bank
c f the United States. J april 23.
LANDING, j 1
Fr«m on hoard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Patflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COT FER
}Oo canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
also, e
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD f
1 JOHN MILLER, jun. t
april 17. i_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher, r
... , HAVE F0« S&LE, 1 I
AtNo. s,Dock-ftreet,neav the Drawbridge, f
Chii-a ware ftankeen dining setts, tea and coffee «
cups andfaucer9
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Efltflifh umbrellas,
Together with a general aflortment of European _
Goods — among which are
Scots thread in boxefc
6d. Sd. iod. lad and nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white
lead
Eagliih scythes 4a to 50 inches
ALSO,
XTI barrellsof kiln dryeri Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStorcinDock-ftreet,
/ No. 7, to be Ist, three {lories high, suitable for
any bufinels.
4th mo. s?h , j"
For Sale,
BY THI SUBSCRIBER, MO- 10. CH IS MJ) 1 ST R EST,
j I Caflcs of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a (hort
credit.
. Robert Henderfon.
April a mw&HW
* JUST RECEIVED,
FROM rOR T- A U-P RIN CI,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
no hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bag 3. do
ixo hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogih'ead* of MolafT«s
4 bal«s of Cotton
1 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS y FRANCIS.
Penn-ftreet.
maych 11. §_
Pertnlylvania Hospital,
4th mo. Ill), 1798.
THE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are te meet on the seven th day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at threp o'clock in the afternoon, to
cleft twelve Managers and a freafurer, for the
•oftung year.
. By order of a boaxd of Mttmarerrf
SAMUEL COATES, SeSrj.
April >7 dtß
* NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
th» estate of Willam Flfetwopd, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, mnchant, de
ceased, are requested to exkibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and those wJio are indebted
tcv the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
v GE ?-S? B T\
No. 25, So. Third-llrett, ) v
January 4* dtf
treasury depAßtmentv^ __
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GI Y whunAre dand -
IN pursuance of the A<2 of C«ngrefs passed on the fiith July paper", and the
ninety-seven, e -titled »An Aft laying duties on Stamped VVllu;" and n ; Bety .fcven, entitled a
Aft palled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hun T the Aa entl .
"An Aft co postpone for a limited time the commencement a' " t}wt f ro ia and after the t ;
tied "An A laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parch men P .' .jj be JevUd Wl( l collec- „
firft day of July enf»in j, the firveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumer ,
led throughout the United States.
For every fcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Ihect or piece, or Paper^, «p°n which (h
written or printed any or either of the instruments «r writingsl«lUwing-to wit. ( m I
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - * * » " bo'iCkmrot *
Any Licence to praftice.or Certificate of the ad ™^ on ' of die
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proftor, in ray Cou. rot the «
that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office., (hall so far a. relates to the payment ° ( <
duty afareraid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courta of the Un .
States, foreach and every of the said offices. rThi»A States
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military ferviccs) " sex-
Any exemplification or certified copy of any Mi grant or letters pate , (
cept for lands granted for military services) " " " , !
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - -
Any Receipt or discharge for or'on accountof anyLegacyleftby .By Will or »
ther testamentary inftn.ment.or for any (hare or part of a eftate d
vided by force of any statute of diftrfbutisns, other than to the Wife, Ch.l
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount "hereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars,and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
Wh^ 1 the amo'unt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - *
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the sum of ,
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrnment in nature thereof on any fll.p, vefiel or
goods insured from one diftrift to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for wh.cli
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars,
When the sum infyred (hall exceed five hundred dollars, -
Any Exemplification, of what natnre fosver, that fhal pass feal f ' ny
Court, other than such as it may bt the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular flste, - 50
Any Bond, bill (ingle or penal, foreign or inland bi!l of exrhe, proory
rote or other note, other tha« any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or enntraft, made to or with the United States or any state, or for ,their
IfVbo f ve e ?wenfy dollar/and not exceeding one hundred pilars - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dol »r«, »5
If above five hundred dollars anil not exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - • " " 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (tall be payables or wwhin sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeft to only two tilth parts of the dul)
aforefaid —viz. - , . , ~
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollar s, lo
If above fivn hundred dollars and not exceedißg one thousand dollars.
If above one thousand dollars, - " , a u
Any Notes issued by the banks now eftibl,(hed, or that may hereafter _be eflab
lifted within the Un.ted States, other than the nor« of such of the: &d Banks
a. (hall agree to an anaual composition, olone pir centum an the annual d<-
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeftively, according to
the following scale. - 6
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for ea?h dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred <*oU»r», 5®
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and nfe exceedtng five hurtdred
On all note's above fiye hundred (JoHar§, - * 1
Any Froteft of other Notarial as), - " . , . . . W*r- '
An v Letter of Attorney, except for an wl»ahd penfi!S», or Or fell war
rants for Land granted by the United States a's brcuflty .or foihuty services.
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
I For five h'uncUed dollars in 1 not exceeding two thcnifand dollars,
"pnr n(nf> iKan t*o thoufan 1 dollir^, - . ' . *
I Any note or bill of hdirl? W -
H from one diflriato artother diftnil oftheUu..ed btatel,
,' If f from S th eU.lted States to any foreign port or pUce, " - *S
i m 50
' i Any Certifiraie of Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank ot
' the United Stat, s, or of any State or Other Biuk >; " _
' If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, to
If above one hundred dol'arsj * ,
If under twenty dollars, at .the rate of ten cents for one hundred dpllar..
that purpose. jjj
The SuDervifars of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing and as soon as
1 he bupervnsr. without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
11 may be P"&' ca e .'.™" , h £ c ' el ef dut ; es before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ;Or
mentor Papir, with Mny of the rueiioi an . „ of the Unitcd StnteSi he ob .
; (lamped vellum, pare men PP bv applkatiba to any Supervilor, InfptSir, Officer of Infpeftion,
: tained at the rates prefmbed by_lr«^b, Supe „ ifo l r3 of Diftri a,.
or othfr pstfon appointed for the diftr.but.on P
the day and year nbrwerxentioncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10 Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING by a number of gentleriaen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lilhing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every alii (lance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BV SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be publi{hed every WednefJay and Saturday
morning, on the following fconditjons.
It will be printedon four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Cliarlefton,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Lond»n, the Well Indies and else
where as often as thty can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The ratss of ii Ajratice—the price
ps {locks —courfeof exchange, &c. &e. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important —And thfe remain
der of the paper will beappropiiated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubferihers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration Of a month from' its publicntion,
and the remainder at the end of the year sub- -
Icribers ata greater diilance Will havu it sent them
agreeable to their directions— to pay t >. 0 dollars as
the time of (ulfcribing, and the remaindsr at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubrcribed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
It is from the advice and to gratify the wilh
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes pnblifhing this Price Cnrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. Ard it i 9
propofsd to embrace the Prices Current with fach
other*natter as miy be mod material to fend abroad
in thafirdtwo pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters,a* r»ay be m#re immediately do
mellic, and to a-ivwrtifemehts.
Subfcf iptions aje received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-Oreet,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. athisolMce inChcftiut
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff.s and
blind? in the doors, with or without harness.
F.nqUire of Pe'er Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
.Sixth street, or the fubferiberin Germar.town.
CASPAR IV. HAINES'
aptil 1 *»w 3w
Frefli Teas.
Jujt Imported, in the /hip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, By
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptißg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
N At hi* Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson iJitip, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
China Ware, afEwted; black and coloured Luti
ftrings and SartiiH, Naßkeer.s, Cassia, large garden
and common F»ri», fattin and lutefiring Umbrellas,
while-bone flicks.
They have also per Sale, »
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiaft,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Ssgai ip boxes
. march 8. §
- - —iiv ■-)
Now Opening,
AtWriLiAM M'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afTortment of Horferrtan'S
Pistols, direit from the Ajioufafturers in London,
p ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, vartou h B xes, Va
lices, Saddle Bigs, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &e.
April 9 dtf
City Cpmmiflioner's Office,
January 1 itb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THI CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by the
X said coromiffioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
Diftridt No. I. I —From the north fide of Vine
street, to thefou'hfide of Mulberry street; to
he under the fvperinumjanceof Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ci.efi>ut ftrreet, to he under the
fupenntendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street tp
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
; fupenntendance of Jof'eph ClaypooJe.
4. From thexsofth fide of Spruce street, to the
fsuth fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
pe'intendance of Hugh Roberts.
£jp When pumps are out of order south of
High-flreet, please apply to -Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-flreets, er Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
I High street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saflafras
ftreet, betwSe* Sixth and S3vemh-ftre«ts.
treasury department, J
Mtrch 30/4- 1 79®*
Public Notice is hereby »
a l l era Hons en- FC
" lum, parchment ißil paper.
The ft amp
cates for the drawback of cultomo »r dutie.
Imports are repealed.
.at . , tKfrjrerif fcven and one half
will he allowed by the Superior* •
cr Infpedtor," rcfpeaively, to any perfoaother
than Officers cf the Revenue, who «nay F" r
Se atone time or procure to be £**>££
quantities of Vellum, Parchment ™ P^P er ' u P
which the dunes (hall amount to Ten Pol
lam or upwards.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates preferred by l?w, without any addt
tional charge or expense on account ofthe
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchmeß. or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded P.
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (km of Parch of
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each <k.« ot
Vellum of medium size, which may be turn, b- a
ed at rhe expense of the United States and pro- ly
portionally for any lesser quantity- "<
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir abovemeniiored.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. 11
— er
TO BE SOLD, p (
40,9*9 acres of Land. f y
TN Greene C ounty, Commonwealth of nn (> rl " m
1 vania,- on the watars of Fifli and Wheeling tl(
Cre«l:s and TeHij/lile Run. _
These landaTre fertile and well timbered, and lt|
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago lor fe
five (hillings per a. re ; patented early in i7»7.ex- R
ccpt 370 c acres', which were pa'ent.d m 179'■ i
part of them were furveved in 1783. The trad -
is between the Ohio and Monongahela very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town ot Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the
villags of Green efburgh and Wheeling /
On payment of one tounh of the purchase mo- oj
ney, a reafonalde credit will be given for the reli w
d ue . Enquire of the Printer. p;
april 11. th
" 1 '"'io BE'SOLD, «
26,780 acres of Land, «
the State of New Yo*k, between the northern
bounds of Penr.fylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townihips of Hamdcn and
Warrfeu and county of Warrtn.
1 hefe Lands, their quality and lituation,
are a very (jefirable ©bjetft for any man who means
to ihveft his money to advantage c .
On payment of one third of the purchase mo-
n*y, a rcaffcnable credit will e given for the reli- j'
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April 11. - a
Ross Iff Simsoh, I
HAVB FOR S*L£,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths i
Carolina Indigo, firft quality f
A few hales Baftas, CofTaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
B«ng»l SUGAR, in bags and boxes
jAnaiea afcd") RUM
Bengal j
april »o -
LANDING,
From on board the Ship SallV, from r
CalcNtta, , 1
AND ro* SAL £ BX THE SUBSCCIBIR, C
1606 bags prime Sugar, j
800 do. Ginger {
30 bales low priced piece Goods. ,
John Miller, Jun.
ir march 3 $
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
[' Alexander J. Miller iff Co. |
ir TjafrOßM their friends in town and country, that ]
I thty have opened a WhOlesale Dry Good Store, c
at No. 64, South Front Sfreet, Philadelphia ;wher« t
they now have, and intend kceeping a general as- |
foitment of India, Germs*, Irijb, French and Sri- a
tijb Mannfa&uresfor fale,,oa advantageous termr- *
for calh or afhort creoit.
February iq stf c
JUST RECEIVED. f
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second "
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 Higb-!treet
■> r, Dobfon, 41 Soath Second-flreet and the
Boekfellers generally, '
(Price 5 ifchs'of a Dollar )
BEACON HILL, I
t.. . 1
A Local Point, historic and deforiptive ! 1
By a Lady of Bojlon. <
, ANALYSIS OF BOOK I. '
Allusion to the furrouuding Profpetft— Invocation !
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufi—FiSi. tr ilifcardcd—Dedication to Waih- !
ington—The Action open« at the Retreat of the I
e " Columliiaas from Bunker's Hill—General Howe '
:n Fhe Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ls ' ren—Perfsnification of Fcrtune and Fame— 1
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to-the
' chief Commaiid—Formation of tha Columbian ! '
*' Camp at Cambri igp—Natural, moral, or poli- 1
1 tical Hittory of the several States—Their com- !
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts SufTcr-l
inga—Negotiation for the fa. ; e Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
y Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
ravftcr' qf the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress of Free
*S dom throughout the World.
~ marchpjc. ■ f 5
For Sale,
ht The«argoofthebgrigAms;ricanframLagutra,
CONSISTING or
Caraccas Cocoa.
__ Henry Philips,
Mo. in, South Fourth Street.
April 13 §
i. \To be Let,
he (And possession given on the ift of May)
he A genteel three story brick House,
II feet front, aad 40 feet deep, with back buildings
ine and stables.at present in the tenure of Major J a qK
t» son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
ks. April 1. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
And fQR. sale at this office,
tp (Price CentiJ
the Refle&ions on Monroe's View
ore TUK CONDUCT OT THE EXRCUTIrZ,
As published in the
,u " GAZETTE of M,e UNITED STATES,
, Under the signature of
the SCIPIO,
eb- In ■which the Commercial Warfare of France it traced
Kof to the French Fadtionin this County, at iti Stunt,
ras- and the Motives 0/ QfpcJUivi, Utc.
march jo.
, i . C
[ln the press andjoon will be pulß/htd^
WILBERFORCE ON RELIGION.
PROPOSALS
By J. Or m rod,
No. 41, Chefnut Ifreet, Philadelphia
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION.
A Practical View *
OP THE
Prevailing Religious System
:,ot
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
V ITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY.
Br Wieljam Wiebereorce, Es^.
Member of the Hritifh Parliament.
Siarch the Scriptures —John y. 39.
Hoiv charming is Divine Philofopfo,
Not harjb and crabbed as dull fools fupj>o/e>
But musical as is Apt Ho'j lute.
And aperpetual feajl of ncaaredfweets,
Where no crude furfeit reigns.
Milton.
CONDITIONS.
Thi« work will be printed with a handforae
Pica type, on fine paper, and wilt form a volume
of 40,-- pages, large oftavo.
It will be delivered to subscribers f<«-one dol
lar and twenty-five cei>ts in blue boards, or neat
ly bound and lettered, for one dollar and a
half.
Tlie London copy fold ( when it was to
be had) for two dollars and a half.
The British Rtviewers announce this pub
lication to be one of the most ufeful, elegant and
energetic, on the fubje<Sl of religion, that has ap
peared within their memory. The reception
it has already met wit', from the public, ftrong
lv corroborates their opinion, for it- has, in a few
months, run rapidly through four large edi
tions in London.
The publiiher flatters himfeif, that as soon as
its merits become generally known, it will be
read with as much avidity in America as it isim
Europe.
April i.f>. 3* >
A House and Lot 111 Dover.
FOR SAL£,
\ LOT OF GROUND, fituateon the eafl fide
t\ of the main street. running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for y yards below Captain
Furbee's Tavern, containing in front on said street
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eafKvard
twelve perches, together with the buildings there
on creiSted, which consist of a good brick house,
two ft or its high, well finished, with two rooms a
liout seventeen or eighteen feet fqua're each, and a
passage eight or ten feet wide on the fir 3 floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchea ; a hack brick building with two room*
above and Helow about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of this buildirg communi
cate above flairs with the passage of the house :
A brickfmok? house, and a good pump of wafer
in the yard, and a gfrden adjoining. '
The House is in tv, ry retpeift as comfortable if
any in Dover, is in a good fuuation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the flgn of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth street, PHila 'clphisu
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 47. tus4«r
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,.
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger*
mantown, end about five miles from the city;
the whole being under good fence, and in ex
cellent order as pifture ground.
JFor further information and terms, apply to
Jonn EVliotv Citesson, at his Office forthfr
sale of Real-Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54*
High-street.
4th rpo. 3d. tu&fnt
For Sale,
r A Farm and Country Seat ?
SfcTUAT£D on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norns-iown, seventeen miles from Phi
-1 ladelphia—the farm contain* 195 ac e» ot land, 5a
» of which are woodland* about 40 of meadow, and
2 the reft arable laad. The house and garden which'is
- well pal£d, ftaod in the moil ple&fam fuu*
- ation, commanding a view of iho river, anifland
- «which is oppofire. and the village of Norris town-
There is a ftiad fifherv belonging to ttfe place—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
" or on the preinifea.
April 16 tawtf
t Valuable Property for Sale.
E FOR SALE,
THAT well known Eflate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of'
General John'Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Rent county, Maryland—containing a
bont 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
5 two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, 3
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
" t them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Sraoak
house , Jcc. Stc.-i-The whole Eflate being nearly
furr'ounded -by water, it requires but little fencing,
e and has a good Shad and Herringfiflieiy. It is
3 1 conveniently fitjated for both-the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market?, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a fhflrt fail from Baltimore. There
_ t is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
e the premifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
f different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided int®
fmailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
_ iently situated) as ma* suit the purcKafer. The
Stock on said Farm, confiding of Horses, Cattle,.
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofedof. For further
- particulars apply to Giotot Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
~ ARCHIBALD M'CALL, ju*.
February 44. aaw6w
-
' Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confifls of 940 acres, almofl all »f which i»
a-fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Eisrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farim, fourof which are bouuded on the
a EaiVby the river Pafaick.
'' 1 Th-f are oh it a number of buildings, forming
S s ( afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling hetrfe
K " is a vsry convenient one, and,a small expence would
put kin complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 1500 fin»bearingengraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts ot izd
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a grest
variety vf other fruitt,particularly Cherries of the
heft and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTress, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation i> about 18 «'!«
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 d«.
Jr3mM»ms-Town, arid 14 front Springfield—''
is wooded and watered.
To five trouble, the price is five'pound pr. ac re
""11 in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to »n
---- <, I quije of T. McEUEN & Co.
N*. 78, Chtfo'« ttert
j Fekraary a. eodtf