of tfic anl, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbsx 1700. J
FOR SALE,
The Schooner
THREE SISTERS,
Burthen 85 tons, two years old
-5335HH*' built of the bell material*, and now
*eady to receive * cargo. Said vessel may be view
ed at Mr. Samntl Brewer's wharf, Kensington.
ALSO,
HARRIET,
Burthen 77 tons, three yean
old, is well found; may be view
ed at Mcflr*. Pettel and Bayard's wharf.
Those VefTels are well calculated for Coasters,
hod have been employed in the trade between Phi
ladelphia and New-York—They have excellent ac
commodations for Passengers.
For terms, apply to
Gurney Smith.
February 16.
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATS FOR S A Ll,
si hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipe# and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipe*
Old Port do. in hh in.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of cherts
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Mudinets, in packa
ges fuitabie for the Weft-India market
Nails alTorted
Black quart Lotties
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochrc dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expedled round
as soon as the navigation Is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
• Coals
Spanish Brown 1
Venetian Red |
Kt;: i
WhiitLtid
Rti Lead j
Colcothar vitriol
I to bundles ShcWhio; ptp«r
Sfjmmj Twine
Ship Diaha,
Far Sale or Charter.
Also,
Brig Amaiow.
N B. The late firm »f Philip Micklin & Co.
is sow changed tn
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH".
eodtf
for Savannah,
fjgmr SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, majtcr,
r WILL fail on the 10th inft.
(ice prrmittinj) has handfnme accommodations
for passengers. For freight or paflage apply t.
the mailer on feorrd, at Cickley's wharf, above
Mark«t-firee<, or
N. & J. Frtttier,
No. 95, South Front-flreet.
February
For Amsterdam,
t—t Tbt Ship
FAR M E R,
fsSl-SfflV J° HN M'Collom, Master;
WILL fail in a fe*J» days, the
SSSoctasSfesJgreater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, r*
paflage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Eourdeanx, and for fate,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quartercaflts
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in cafe*
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
M&j GOODHOPE
Will carry about 1200 barrels, tnd
totake in a cargo. For term*
apply to
Prugers £s* C».
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, LiJbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. " dtf
Flax Seed tor sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. if. South Third-street.
Jsnniry %y j
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the Unhed States are hereby
informed, that the minufa&ure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
JJofton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßofUn Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe& greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cmt to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Cbaritt F.
X.»pfer % at the Glass House.
Orders fromthe distant States to be addrefled to
Mr. SamuA G»r*, Court-ftroet, Boston.
Two or three good Glass makers are want
ad at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will tpeet
with the fame encooragement.
Boflon, Janoary 16 1 iaw6w
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM Alf just arrived from England, wants a
place as a Nurfeor attendant on the tick, either 00 a
Gentleman or Ladv.—For further information apply
at N«. 10, South Fourth street, eesr Maike ftreei.
Ftb. 6* -p
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 20, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be ecpofed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants* Coffee-houfe in Seeond-flreet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick House, with % two
dory frame Buildings, on a lot ao feet front and
lOC feet deep ; also, a Vacant Lot of 40, feet square,
with the privilege ef an alley to'go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Chriftian-ftrect, between
, Front and Second- streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Afti's.
No. a. A three story brisk House, ftfuate at
the north east corner of Chefnut flreets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and no feet on Chcfnut
ftre#t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, as the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one
the bed ttands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreot, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This oufe is built and finifhed
m the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Theie is a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at prs
-fort let for 600 dollar* per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb-street, between Second ar.d Third street,
being ao feet front and 130 fcet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No: 5. A ftory brick ;Houfe, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is ao
feet front and 4S feet deep, in complete repair,
and ih rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, oi&e quarter cafti,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter is 9 months,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1798. 3aw
£jT On account of the present bad weather, tke
above sale if poftpened until Thursday evening, the
firft day of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
. JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship iuar, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 Ware, assort
ed tofuk Weft India market
40 h Whiting
750© bu&cls g<jod House Coals
L4NBIS,
4<ro barrels prime Beef
50 barrels Pork
750 hhds. Havasina MolalTee
Woolen Cloths
Blaukets £ assorted in packages
Hard Ware j
Riivens Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bririlh, of various Czes
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 4 groce each
A general alTortment of Queens* Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cases
Biicct fine Salt, in hoglheads
roa sals BY
Thts. & John Kctland.
Febiairy 15 jtn
The Subscriber
INFORMS thof: whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judg.s of the Ceurt of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the iwntyjixtb day of
February next, t» hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubjedk of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Infolvcnt Law—and
that their attendance is deftred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
HflUltpbia, Jan. 16. «otl6thF
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their infpec
tionfince December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will dnting the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation zmd strut ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. tft 1798.
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2, 1797.
ON a release of farvey of 433 acres.6B perches
of land, fiiuate in lower SmithfielJ townlhip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant oC 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of 1 ewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, F.fq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Ha.l, Secretary
of the Land Ofice.
N. Lufborough. .
January ti sttFiwtm
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrad hi« bufi
oefs, offers this ElUte for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and ffcree Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these branches. The Air Frrnaces
were lately built parpofe of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell, Hay and
The Cannon lately mannfadured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of (ixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the >4 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fiiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the state
los Connecticut, and ooly 3© miles from several land »
ings on the Hud Ton's river, and having every ad van- ;
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
frpm a large natural pond, very rear the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser ean be accommodat
ed with all theftock and uteofils, and have pofeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and prepantion
may be made in themranumefor going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Ac. See, - For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; Bavid Brooks, Elq. one of the ReprefentaMves
Ul Congress for this State ; Mi , Waterman, on
the premises, or to the proorietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NIILSOW ,
*• 3*wtf ,
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Xwo Friends, Dan *
I*l Crawley, Matter, <
«£pc. ,Bd { Jamaica RUM, i
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer £3* San. 1
nwember 9. j
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
terrnof Co-partner(hip between the fub
1. fcribfrs, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, aud by mutual
: cor.sent will net be renewed* The debts and con
, certs, of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
, Jun. to whom all those indehtcd.to the partnership
are earneflly requeued to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jan.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
, February 19 s rt
FOR SALE, by "
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chcfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH ARB
Gurrahs M«moodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzsenai Tanda* CoiTaes
G lizzie* Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palaaipoors RcmaJl Handkerchiefs
Amongst then* are a great proportion of the ma
nufaAares of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 $
Altx. J. Miller & "James Davis,
Haying entered int. pirtvrrflii, under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller 55* Co.
INFORM their friends in town and couatry, that
they have opened a Wholcfile Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/rcet,Philadelphia j where
they now have, and intend kcceping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Irijk, French and Mri-
Mannfa&tiresfor falc, on advantageous termc
for ca& or a short crcait.
February iq t f
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Mufliaj, being tiie re
mains of the (hip India'i lad cargo fr.m
Calcutta, and will fee fold low,
7 Boxei of Umbrellat
15 Pipei of fined particular Madeira wia«,
of the viatagt of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 1 g diw
" ~A PRINT.
THE Print, reprefentioj Ciniiil Waihih.-
tom snd his fsmily, all whole lengths in one
groupe, Will be ready for delivery by the 15th of
March next.
An unfinilhed impreflion is to be seen at Mr. M'El
wees's ftore, No. 70 South Foutth Street.
The fubfeription will elofe on the 10th of March
next. Subfcribcrs may depend oa having the best
Prints at tnc.guinea and an kalj. To noa-fubferibers,
the priee will be two guineas.
February 19.
Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his mailer's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, on the sth of this ia
ftant Febrairy, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phifiognomy is.vacant but not
disagreeable ; his age is supposed to be about 40.
He had on when he went away, a Ihort blue cloth
coat, striped caffimere vest, corduroy breeches,
and yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture—
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a Ihort blue cloth coat with
l uff coloured cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other cloathos he took with
him cannot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eastern
(here of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, Co that his mailer
may get him again, or bring him home, {hall have
a reward of twenty dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. §
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the slate of New*
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gamfl his liberation, purfuan: to an a6l of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a£i for .
the relief of insolvent debtors," pafitfd the 26th
day of Ja miry 179? —And the the fa d court
did appoint Monday the 2sth day/ of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
C«urt House in the Middle Prccindl, at eleven
o'clock, in theforenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are requeftsd to take notice. 1
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —nwyw
Princeton—New-JerJey.
To U Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoor\, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all pie ap
purtenances. The house is two itorieji high,
of frame work and painfed. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is paved with ftoncs. In it area well of excel
lent water, an oven, a and house
for afhes—dnd behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, grapery, and convenient stables. with four «
flails for horses, and four for neai cattle.' The 5
lot is 60 feet wide upon the street, and 254 feet
deep, somewhat more than half of whi-.h is
made into a kitchen garden of ao excellent foil. 1
For terms, which will be made very reason- f
able, apply ta the reverend
Samuel S. Smith. \
January 19. 2.1W4W
IN THE PRESS, 1
And speedily will be PuMiJhed, j
tor the benefit of the ,
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations thsfeiu : -
Written at Sen, in the year 1794 ;
And now printed
Mr THE AUTHOR.
" A navy woild be maintained but toaa almost
ufeiefs purpefe which takiag the feamm kept the
merchantmen irile ia port, and trading vefTels
would he as unprofitably employed, if they took
allthofefeamen whofefkill and courage onboard ships
of war, wouU give them pr ted ion and secure
their fafety. We hav* enough for both purposes,
and thecultivatiig hand of attention alone is want
ing to multiply their number. M Money May buy I
" all naval {lores, except mariners; but, unless a t
" supply of tht« i$ prefer ved, no weajth will be a
" able to procure them," t
February 7. 5
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
B.\nk on Friday, the 2d February, I7fß, purfu*
' ant to public notice—
On motion, Rcfolved, That, this meeting be
ing impreAed with a due sense of the extraordina
ry Cervices and attention of Samvcl M. Fox, Esq.
President of this Bank, in the execution of the du
ties of his office ; which have been much increas
ed by the peculiar situation of the institution, at
the period of his appointment; and hy the diffi
culties occasioned in consequence of riie recent ca
lamity in this city ; —a committee of three gentle
men be appointed to prepare a piece of Plate, of a
value not exceedingve hundred dollars, withl'uit
* able emblems and devices, t«i be presented to Mr.
Fox, if) the name of the Stockholders, as an evi
dence of the high feola they entertain of his late
official ferviccs.
William T. Smith, Peter WikofF, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs were appointed a committee for the
above purpose.
Otdered, that the preceding rciolution be pub
' lifhed. *
ExtraA from the minutes.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chair.Tan.
Atteft — John Sitcaiaves, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, th« cargo «f the schooner Frede
rickiburg Packet, Captaia Pearce from
Malaga, vir.
Bloom Rii'ini m keg,
* Do. Do. in boces
Mufcatcl do. ia do.
Figs ia kegs
Almond kernels ia caflcs and bo*u
Boit fiiell'd almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes ia jars
Anchovie* in kegs, &e.
The whole of the articles (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
For Salt by
Ptter Kubn.
February j
Balkcnridge—for falc
IT conCfls of 910 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
K«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
Baft by the riVer Pafaick.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one : and]* fmallcxpcncc would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conufls of 1500 fine bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other of said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as a'.fo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and aioft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeflTreos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and ia from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. eodtf
Prison Manufactory. <
FOR S.iLE,
At the Prifoa of the City and County of Phtladcl- 1
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
, Oakum and chipped Logwood
I Shoemakers and Sadler* Thread
t Also—-Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea • itones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heaJs fills, c .
All which may he had on reafonabie terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at j
a moderate price. j
Orders from a dillance, direAed to Daniel Tho- ,
mas, agent for the p*fon, will be attended to. ,
•December 26 mthtfm
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Aores of Messrs. Dob
son, Civ *fb ell, Yofrfec and Okmroo,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauics and Cure of Remitting or Eiliour
Fevers.
To which h annexed
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailicc of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefling fads and reflections relative to
the Synechtts Ifiercidet, or Yellow Fever, whjch
lia* occasioned so much diflrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcapoit
towns of rhe United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, 1
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of ihe Philolophical So
cittty- Feb. I—»3m§ {
Canal Lottery-—No. 11. J
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aath J
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'* Lottery C
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street J
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten I
Dellart, where check books are kept lor register- J
ing and examining in thefc, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11.and PatUrfpn Lotteries, and informa- 1
tion whfcrc tickets may be had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the £
Union.
N. B. The bafint-fs of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, -
difcoanting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. Sic. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
IN THE PRESS,
AND 9PBEBILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
f Price 15 Cents J A
Refle&ions on Monroe's Vi#w
OF TMR CONDUCT 9T TUF EXF.CVTirS,
As published in the 7
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatura of
SCiPIO, *
In which the commerctai warfare of France is
traced to the French faliion in this country
as its fonrce, and the motives of the opposition
to the meafuies of tha United States are exposed.
Fob. 8. S
FOR SALE,
»Y THE Subscribers, No. ai, Pcnn-ftrect,
r The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from bengal,
Cunjijlitg
Baft as, of various qualities and prices,
|. Coffaei Punjum Clocks
- Sanakt Gutzeydo.
- Hum horns Charconna Dorea
t Blue Clr-th Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
• Mamoodys Check*
* Maharagongea Patna Hkfii,
a Ginghau.s Muloiul do.
Guzzenas Bundannoes
Gurrahs Silkrfoy
Piniafcees Choppa Romaic
c Salgatchyji Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various «01.
s Mock Pulicatt
«oo tons SUGAR
PEPPEK.
Willings & Francis»
The Piece Goods
Of tie Ganges are now open to fate at that
commodious store the north weft torncr of
Market and Fourth-streets.
AMo—A few Bales of MadraHc Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and belt colour*.
February 8. dtfi
FOR SALE,
JBy WHARTON & LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
Ift aud ad proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madciia W uie,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
9 . rodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
a 6 hoglheads best ST. CROiX SUGAR,
roR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Go.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An aAire, cleanly, industrious woman to cock
do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
W4II be allowed good waj«, and no other need ap
ply-—Enquire of the Printer.
JVbruary i §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Do&or ot • Ship to ihe Eaft-lndirs.
Enquire at No. ij Do k Street.
Feb. 6. j, w
Ran atvay from the Sulfcribrr,
Oh the 24th January tail,
A Black Woman, named Zetime.
SHE » ol a middling sued flature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a lundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brirgs her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-ftreec,
(hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbor,, f id Girl alter this no
tice, fliall be prolecated to the fcvirity of the law.
Februaty ro. ,
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands again*
the ertatc of IVILLIAM COAIfTON, lat
of the city c 4 Philadelphia, decs&fcd, are requvf
ted to furnilh their accoußts, duly jttclled. And
those who are indebted to said eftaf, arecarneftly
fohcited to make immediate payment, to erther of
the fubfaribers.
Isaac Cathmll, ~l
John Haworth, I Adminiftratoi*.
Samuel Wilcox. J
*7- wmw
NO T I c E.
ALL psrfonsindebted to the ellate of Peter QiU
late of the Ditlriit of Soaihwark, deceased
are requested t make immediate paymentto either
ol the Suifcnbers; aud those who have any it.
nurds against faideftate, are requested to brin* is
their accounts dnly attested, to
John Murphy, ")
Peter ScravenJyle, L cu "
Thomas Farrell, J tor, »
_ January 16. »awaw4w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornea «f
Second and Cfaefnut streets,
f P rlCe 3*^Bits of a dollar)
Observations on certain Dtcuments
( on ained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State, for
the year 1 796,"
In which the cmarce ol speculation ae-ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late tECRti arv of theTaEASuRT, is EUI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication prelims a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperf. the characters c f those
persons who are considered as hoilile their difor
gamzrng fcheme<. It also contains the correfpori
dence between Mr. Hamilton and McfTrs Monroe
Muhlenburjj and Venable, on the fnhjstft of the
documents aforefaid, and a scries of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.HamMton
proving beyond the possibility of a doubt, that the'
connexion between him and Reynolds i-as the ro
fult of a daring couf piracy on the part of the lat
ter and his alTociates to extort money.
A difconnt of one third from the rrtad
price will be made in favor of wholesale purcha
sers, for cash. Orders to be addreflid to Mr
Youno.
February f. '
SALES AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS,
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No
fowh From-ftreet,
J \ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6s
C South Front flreet.
r Forenoon—John Connelly, OM Cit*
TutfrayJ Auiflion, No 73 fom'h h'ront-flreer.
' J Afternoon—\Vtlli3m Shannon. Kr
C 18J High-flrect.
WeAttfday J K^ Cr "^°"~^ e ' er No. 74
( south Third-ftrcct.
Thurfda, rP^en-Fowardfox.
I Afternoon—John ConneJly.
Friday I Fo/cnoon-W'ilha.n Sh»o« n .
) Afternoon—John Connelly,
Saturday Afternoon—Peter £e»W.
[VtLUMf. XIII, r , . ,
%\it dinette.
JJ —■'< Ji i-.-i —
P H 11. ADEL PH IA ,
TUESDAY EVENING, FEBHIURT le.
HI. TtNNO,
A very gross misrepresentation having
appeared in Bache's paper of Friday, ref
peding the meeting in the Northern Liber
ties you will con-eft it by publishing the
following ftateawnt :
A ovmber of eitizen* agreed to Beet at
the ho'jfc of Mr. Bender, for the parpofe of
aorainatiag a proper person to fill the o£Bce
of feaator. A room was accordingly enga
ged. By this meeting it wit not intended
to expre\ the sense of the inhabitant! of
the Northern Libertie» generally, but on
ly that of the citiien» present. It wa* not
intended to collect people of all political
deferiptioas, but only of one ; ant) *ll who
have ever been present at mixed meetings,
•f men governed by d -fferent interests, and
prompted by views, rauft fee the
propriety of this intention. At such meet
isgi it is impoflibU to obtain either calmness
of deliberation, or freedom of difauffion.
It it impoflible to make any comparison, be
tween the fitnef* of the fevtral candidates, j
aAd the conduit which each will be likely
to pursue ; and where both parties remain
firm, viol tree it almost the inevitable con
ference. These being the opinions of the
gentlemen who' called the meeting, they
were much furpri/ed at the intrusion of a
number of person* who by the violence of
'their manner made it evident that they were
really determined by all the mean in their
power to bear down all opposition to their
views. They immediately cried out to
Col. Cowpcrthwait to take the chair. To
thia he objected, aud the impudence and
tyranny of attempting to place him there,
Hiuft be obvious to all ; since his sentiments
•a thcfufcjefl were well known, and since he
had already prelided at a meeting which had
unanimously agreed to support Mr. Morgan.
He yielded howeVer tr. their clamor, and
immediately after he had taken the chair,
fom'c man rose and made a number of ob
jefiions to admitting the ele&ors of the ci
ty to *ote at a meeting in the Northern Li
berties. After several fruitlefs attempts to
speak, made by those who were opposed to
him, they were at length heard fome
degree of attention. They stated that the
■loom was engaged by themselves, for /'ieir
own use ; that it was not their intention to
publiih the resolution as resulting from the
determination of some of the inhabitants of
the Northern Liberties only, but alf® fully
to express that a number ®f the inhabitants
of the city were present ; that several per
fnns from the Northern Liberties were at
Diifiwoody's, and were permitted to vote;
but that if it was the sense of the meeting,
thus rudely to interfere with and violently
exclude them, they their desire
to maintain peace and good order, with
draw. By this time a number of the friends
of Mr. Morgan, forefceing what was like
ly to be the event, had aftualiy gone and
their places were supplied by the friends of
Mr. Israel. As soon as the person who
made the obje&ion perceived this, he with
drew it. The room was now filled with
the mod iboifterous clamor in favor of Mr.
Israel, and the chairman declaring it to be
impoflible to preftrve order, exprefTed a
wifli to retire. It was, however, perempto
rily isfifted upon that he should remain in
his feat. A proposal was made to adjourn,
which was instantly rejefled. After a good
deal of cor.verfation among the friends of
Mr. Israel, the question was at length put
and a large majority appeared in his favor.
A refutation was then offered, declaring the
meeting to b'- unanimous : to this the chair
man objrflrd because a number of persons
of whom he was one, had voted against
Mr. Israel, and the word unanimous was
struck out. The most lingular part of the
story remains to be told, that many of those
citizens who had just hcen voting at a meet
ing in the city, came to that in the North- (
4»n Liberties in order to exclude others of i
their fellow citiieat, and then aftually vo- i
ted themlelves. i
The fame trick had been played at Lefh- <
er'» tavern on Tuesday. A number of gen- ■
tlemen agreed to meet there—Mr. Israel's ]
adherents heaid of this intention, took pof- j
feflion of the room, and entirely excluded <
them. j
I ftiall make no comanent upon tbis tranf- j
adion, nor upon the ridiculous mummery (
of Momu*. Tke public will form its own <
opinion. They will determine on which |
ide the charge of violence is fairly made. t
A SPECTATOR. t
Ml. HNHO, ]
. Your readers being now pretty well fati- t
atcd, if not forfeited with account* of the t
late debates, oecafioned by the riotous con- <
dud of some of our representatives in Con- I
grefs, -which has been considered by many t
as without a precedent even among savage
nations, and more so in the deliberate' pro- r
eeedings of any civilized body ; I wilh to t
whet their appetites with an account of a y
(tnilar nature, and not very dissimilarppri-t
eiples; by whichanoldadage will be ftrcngth- <
ened, namely " that there is nothing new un- t
der the fun." I shall not carry you to and- i
tnt Rome, ncr yet x» modern Paris, for <
myprecedent; buttoWESTMiNSTER-Hxn, i
(in the corrupt times of Charles II.) where ;
there appears to have been a Frem/i party, i
and an Fr.gVfh party, at Loggerheads, and
tomething like Spitting arguments, as well
at clui-argvments in the cafe. See Grey's
debates of the Houfr of Cpmmonsi which
be fays, prefeated, on that occasion, a
" feene the meft reproachful to the nation,
•ad the most dangerous to the public Wei
ll*."
An address having been presented to the
King, to recall bit fubjeds then in the fer
tile of tVc French King, from wliofe aanbi
tiont vivwi against bit German neighbours,
. the balance of Power was likely to 'be de
stroyed, and great danger apprehended to
England; the King gave an evafire answer;
alledging, on certain principle* of honor,
which his minifteri refufed to disclose to Par
liament, " that such of his subjects as were
in the most christian King's ferviee, before
the last treaty was made with the States Ge
n" eral, were become inconftderable, and cannot
? be recalled, without endangering the peace
he then enjoyed ; [with France- and hit O
ther neighbours} but that he would renew
his proclamation, to prohibit the going over
of any more."
This answer, not fatisfying tlie majority
of Parliament,who efpouied the part of
e country, and were not afraid of mar with
2 France, the house resolved itfelf into a grand
£ committee for committee of the m/hole) on
the fubjeft of a neiu address to the Kitfg—-
( The debates were warm and turbulent }
. some quotations from them are as follows:
1 Mr. Garroway —" This is one of'the
0 ferfoufeft bufinefles that ever v/fs in this
houfe. The King of France is ready to o
verrun os all, if his conquests go on—What
e soever we do in this world, let us reprcfent
the fears of his [tie King's] people, of the
growing greatness of France."
Sir Wm. CoYkwTRT, on this fobjeS,
speaking of grievances in general, fays, "ho
' is not forward to present any ; but there it
' one. above all, [the growing greatness oI
1 France] that concerns us all to tnink of—in
refpetft of this, " all other things are but
c triffles—The end of France's conquests, it I
' not for trade. The whole bent of France
Pi» to consider what next thing he will under
take, if he get reft again. Having tlmtjl
fwallatued Flanders, •will he not begin again ?
[ He kept nut' Ho/land, because Germany
would not endure it—lf Flanders be fwal
-1 lowed up, there is nothing betwixt us and
| France —We are not making Laws to bind
France, but would make an humble address
' to the King, that as tve have a care of hit
concern, he would have a care of ours."
Sir Thomas Clargbs—"This griev
ance of Franee is a matter of so great con
feqnence, that if there be no tendency of
redrcfling it this day, wcart lost —He fears
the King is betrayed."
Mr. Mallet—" Knows not the benefit
we have from the French, but that they
fetch our horse and our men, and we have
nothing from them but Wine and Women."
On the other fide, the ministerial party
held up the dangers of war with France.—
" Will you,"' fays Sir Giorgi Down
ing, who was believed to be under the pay
or corrupt influence of France, "will you
hazard a war, rather than lose Flanders, in
the condition weare in? They may reproach
us, as they did King James, by pifturing
him in Holland with an army of ambassadors
to secure the Palatinate." The address to
the King was nevertheless finally carried.
The tumult now to be noticed, was on
the firft putting #f the qiteftion in the grand
committee, when the House divided, and it
reported at follows.
" The tellers, viz. Sir Trevors Williams,
and Sir John Hanmer, appointed by the
Chairman, Sir Chirles Harboard, differing
in their account of the Yias and Noes,
some called " Tell again," others " Report"
on which great disorder began; gentlemen
rising from their places, and mingling in the
Pit. Hot and provoking difcovrfes and ges
tures pasTed on both fides, especially be- '
twixt Lord Cavendilh, and Sir John Han
mer.—Some said, the Lord Cavendifh'i
sword was half drawn out, but prevented by |
Mr. Raflel, who kept close te him. Othert I j
said, that Lord Cavendijh spit in Sir John '■
Hanmer't face ; but that was only eagcrnefs '
of speech, and fa some ffpittle'] might acci- '
dentally fly from him. \_S>uere —How wat
th* spitting among ut ? By accident or de- ,
fig® -'J But to proceed w'th the narrative j
_ " Sir James Smith, setting his arms on
his fide, did, in a rude manner, make thro'
the crowd, and jollied several, and came up :
to the table, when yet more hot difcourfet '
passed between him and Lord Cavendilh, Mr.
Stackdales Mr. Sacheverell and othert; Mr.
Stockdale&fomcothcrs,fetting their feet up
on the Mace, which lay belowtlfetable.inthe
usual place at grand committees. This dis
order continuing near half an ho«r, the ftan
dert-by on the upper benches, expe&ing
very fatal confeqirences, especially when the
young gallants, as Mr. Thynne, Mr. New
port and others, leaped over the feats to join
lord Cavendish. But the Speaker, very
opportunely and prudently rising from his
feat near the Bar, in a resolute and flow
pace, made hit three refpeftt through the
crowd, and took the Chair. The Mace,
was still retained by the said gentlemen ;
but at last, being forcibly laid on the table,
all the aiforder ceased, a«d thegentlemen went
to their places. The Speaker being fat,
spoke to this purpose—" that, to bring the
House into order again, he took the chair,
though not aceordirtg to order." Some gen-
I tlemen, as Mr. Sacheverell and others, ex
cepted against hit coming into the chair,
but the doing it was generally approved, as
the only expedientto suppress the disorder.
" Sir Thomat Lee moved " that there
might be an engagement pasTed, upon the ho
nour of every member, flanding up in his
place, to proceed no farther in any thing
that had happened in the unfortunate disor
der at the grand committee, which was se
conded by several, and consented to by every
member, flanding in his place. The next
day, after a tedious debate, it wat Resolved
that a further address be presented to his
Majefly, for re-calling his fubje£ti that are
in the ferviee of the French king."
Every publisher of a newspaper, who may
think this narrative worthy of his notice
muftibe left to make his own comments and
comparisons refpefting both cases, and their
termination upon the honour of the parties
pledg'd to give no further interruption to
the important business of the feflion ; altho*
with this difference, that the interrup
tion in one eafc wat but fop an hour perbapt,
while on the other it -has consumed many
precious days to the public. But no censure ■
it meant to bt conveyed by this remark ;
p-.rl.Lpt ;ram the fuKi"i(lin<» aiiiinofiiits, the
length of the drbitet could n<»i Vr aroiied';
and in the one cafe, a fat lord, in the vehe
mence of argument brfpattering or btfl.ib
bering the face of hit antagnnitt, may have
appeared a laughable circumtiance, ratber
thin a premeditated affront. By what mcauj
the Speaker of the House of Cammoni got
polTiffion of his chair, and had the Mace
rcftored to the table, if the Chairman of
the committee of the whole fat in the Speak
er'» place, is not fully related ; unless it be
fuppafed that the Chairman, in the confuli
on of the committee, had descended into
the pit, or voluntarily quitted the chair on
the approach of the Speaker, who (ac
cording to the narrative) deserved much
i credit, in boldly venlniingto tranfgrrfi or
der Itimfelf, that he might reltore order to
' tli(S house. The Speaker of our American
: H )ufe of ReprcfeHtatives wai not called to
thi« fevcre trial, as the house was in session,
nor perhaps would he have been so easily
forgiven ; hut his manly and dignified eon
duft, have-convinced the public of hi? sens.
and fpir.'t to maintain order in the import
ant Ration aifigncd to hiin.
LIES, IMPUDENCE and SEDITION.
From the /I tutor A.
Johd Adams hath said that we are not a
divided people He hath almost said that
we ftiould declare war against Franee, be
taufe Barras, in rhe gcntleft terms, alluded
to the possibility of our domettic divifioa.—
In their frutral answers to his presidential
maiden speech, a majority of the two hou
ses «f Congress echoed both ends if this af
firmation of Mr. Adams. They cad the
faaatlet of falfchood in th* face of trath.
'he future hiftoriao ef Ameriea snuft make
an cxcellc&t morsel, if he relief on the vera
city of executive fpceches, and legislative an
swers.
The most obvious of all political truths
it that the citizens of the United States are
a divided people. Discord and fafiion are
engraved on the front of almost every pub
lic ir.tafurc.
From the CENTINEL.
" To the Pkimtos of iht United States
" Gentlemen,
14 As the light of Truth, arranged in differ
ent forms, and clothed in different fimilitudei,
maybe# itrike the minds of different pcrfons ;
if the following observations Ihould find their
way to ;he public through your inftru&ive pa
pers k a time when prepoffeflions and preju
dices nave gained too great an alcendency over
reason.. it may tend to revive the motto of '75,
(by uniting we stand, by dividing we tall) and
strengthen the great pillar which bears up the
Temple of Liberty. UNITi."
The PHILOSOPHY of POLITICS.
In all natural bodies there is andmuft be fjme
centre of gravity, towards which all the consti
tuent parts of tits Uody tend, and oa which
they reft: This is the cafe with the globe on
which we live; light and rolling fubliances on
its furface may be moved by the winds or other
ways contrary to'the power of gravitation;
and even more solid parts of the earth may be
difturbrd by still greater force, such as earth
quakes and like events; fiill, the power ofgrav
i y remaining, all will return to reft again : Bat
Ihould the power of gravitybe destroyed all the
psrts would separate inconfufion, and the body
no longer remain.
in the particulars above mentioned, a politi
cal body very much refemblet a natural body.
In a republic ihc public good determined by the I
public will, at exprefled by the representative
government, must be considered as the political
centre of gravity. While any important fub
jc& it under the consideration of the govern
ment and ripening to a determination, a free
communication of fentirnents ind arguments,
made with decency and propriety, both in the
several departments of government and elfe
wbere, work no injury to the body, but are
means of finding the public will, and when that
is found and exprefled by government, all op
pofition,|oppugnariott and tumult are like winds,
hurricanes and earthquake! to the natural body,
and ftiould they prevail to deflroy the centre,
would eSexually dellroy the body.
In all political bod eb this will of the fame
must be determined by the majority, though
ever so small, otherwise there would be no cen
tre : When there is a considerable minority, it is
exceedingly prcne to b?come difa£e£ed to the
majority, and troublesome to the body. Soon
after the United States had declared themfel. es
independent, and each state had appointed it»
own government, as well as a rallying point for
the whole,thereappeared from time to time a dif
affe&ed minority, who had reconrfe to commit
tees of correspondence, county conventions, %nd
many to embarrass and op
pose government : Those difaffested minorities
have been differently denominated fr mi time
to time, according to some leading circumstan
ces, which it is needless to mention. Thefepeo
pie seem to consider rhemfelves on a par with,
or rather superior to the government of the re
public, and call it a party, a fa&ion, a junto, and
the like ; —With how little reason ind t.-uth can
such people call themfelvcs republicans ?
As the globe which we inhabit and each of
the primary planets in the solar system has and
must have its own centre of gravity to hold the
constituent parts c so they all have and must
have relation to one common centre, the fun,
to prevent them from interfering with each o
ther, or flying off in right lines and losing their
relative titrations. In this refpeA a number of
bodies politie, or independent states, referable
the solar system : If the United States should
forget their own independence and yield to fo
reign influence, they would become like one of
the primary planets should it lose its relation to
the common centre of the system and gravitate
towards a neighbouring one; in which cafe it
must either approach such neighbouring planet,
and both fall into one common mass, or by los
ing its situation as a primary planet become on
ly a fatcllite to its new neighbour. Or Ihould
the ynited States be divided between the influ
ence of two or more different foreign nations,
they would become like a planet which ftiould
lose its situation in the system aforefaid, and
yield to the attraction of two or more of the
peighbouring planets indifferent directions—in
which cafe it must be separated and draw to
wards the neighbouring planet, pr perhaps filial*
ly dragged in whole towards the ltrongeft at
tracting body.
When in a well organized republic, any in
ternal affair has been fully considered and de
bated, and the public will declared by the cort
ftituted authority ©f the state, it seems rather
imprudent, officious, and the effedl of difap
pointrnent, for those wfto fall into the minority
to keep vp aconllant cUmtur against the pub
lic. wil! fodrclared i hut when any puWic traaf-J
litfiioi has taken place between such constituted
uthority and a foreign state, after a full investi
gation both in the povernment and among# the
people at large. Wh*i can be more weak, ab
surd and wicked, if net treasonable, than for the
minor part, who, di r contentrd with such transac
tion, iball exasperate and intrigue with o:her
foreign ftitesor nations Sgainft their own gov
ernment i ( Would to God such a thing existed
only in the imifrinition, and had never been re
alized in the United States, although now de
clining.)
Such condud terd> greatly to leffcn the dignity
and importuned »f any nation, and is as absurd
as it would he for a man when he wa» about to
fell any eomnio ity, if in ortfrr to find the weight
of it he (hould place one part in one fcaW. and tlu
remainder in rhe other. It is presumed there is b«
perfan that cannot fee the propriety of tl>s compa
rison ; but these people will tell thev are not to
Mume, the fault is en the other fide, i e. they
know better what is for the public gooa than ..the
rcpuhlicau gvivsrumont. Wliy do ;h«.y uoccome
out ftankly and acknowledge their vrrur in joining
to cftabliih a repul>kcan goveri nunr, and return
to an hereditary monarchy; but let them be aware
of a lianted monarchy, for in fuck a government
the will of the monarch himftlf muk be in a de
grew controled
When the United States threw offthe govern
ment of Great-Britain, every intelligent man
knew that they must have some governrmnt or
..other, and when they tftablifhed a republican
government every intelligent man knew that
it must be administered by fallible men, and
that they might fometimea mistake the true in
terests of the people ; but what sre we ra do in
that cafe ? The anf\ver is plain,inft-ad ofdrench
ing the eat th is blood, and fprnding couatlefs
millions to procure a revolution, and which per
haps failing at last, the people have in their con j
ftitution established periodical revolutions, when
all the adrainiftrators of government are diverted
of all authority and returned to the mass «f the
people, and others are ele<fted in their room
But still the body of the people con lifts of falli
ble men, and may err ia their ele&ions. What
shall we then do ? (ah! there is the pinch )
It has been the maxim of despots that the peo
ple have not wisdom fuflkient to govern them
lelves ; but we .Americans trust they have, awfl
time must diieover which are right:—This is
certain, that, if they cannot govern themfelvcs
by free eledlions, our cafe is deplorable, and we
must be governed by despots. UNITY.
From the DtJham, ( Majfachujstts ) Paper*
A FRAGMENT.
Euphorbus was a father. That is, he
was affc£lionateto his family and benevolent
to mankind. Euphorbus and Lois were in
diflolufely oae. Their authority among their
children was not on their lads, but In their
hearts. What was the life of Euphorbus ?
—His tendcrnefs ind philanthropy were,
like the mountain Oak, deep rooted. Like
that, he repelled, with dignity, the florms
and ,the tempests ; and like that, he was
diftinguifocd for beauty and majesty of ap
pearance. His children having experienced
genuine love and kindness, returned them,
reciprocally, to their parents. One chain
bound them altogether. What was his
End? Speak Companion Offspring—"We
surrounded his couch—were happy in re
trofped, and transported in anticipation."
—<Jo, Lois! cherish your love fur him—
Go, Children! perpetuate his virtues and
perfettions in his existence!
Avarus, was married, and had children!
But he was not a Father!— That is—he
loved not, nor knew h«w to be beloved.
Avarus and Elizabeth lived, indeed, in the
fame house; but they seldom met in the
fame mind. Th#ir children were— " You
Rafeal" —" You Trollop—How was the
life of Avarus?—Deftituteof amiable sensi
bilities, he was destitute of happiness. Cor
roding paffionsconfumed hisheart.—Thnrns
were in his pillow.— His children, having
been soured by unjust and untimely severity,
were morose, vicious, and " Without nat
ural affe&ion."—What was the Eud of A
varus ?—He died withbut a wituefs—Was
buried without a tear! Elizabeth mourns
the effe&s of a connexion, from which she
is now relieved—And the children—Oh !
that the confcquences of parental crimes
could be but limited ! —The children, vitia
ted by their Father, rife with his character,
and eternixe his reproach !
IEN EFICENTI A.
WTrfTW.
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never wai in this Country before, has been
been lately ere£ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudson's River, fta e of New-
York. where any article of various forts arid shapes
may be execu ed, as well as eaithcrn ftnves upon a
new conOru&ion, that Caves three fourths of the fuel
commonly us d in cast iron Doves or open chymnies ;
hey a»e be fides very whoiefurae and ornamental, by
pplyingto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the said ware. Geneious appoint,
meat* will be given. Apply as above, or 10
IVvVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South jth Street.
Feb. 19. " eod^w
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR. taking up a runaway fervawt Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
Smith, and fending her to North Front-street, No.
45. . ihe is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, with round features, and blacTc buihy
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow
der*, as she is supposed to be fecretcd in houses of
ill fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19. eo2w
For faie or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-ealt corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftreers, fronting the Statc-
House square. This lot is feet s front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
prcfent two small two story briek houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfu\ for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, Ac. fttuate on
Water street, between Mulberry an J Saffafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet. the» widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a puhJic alley, adjein
"ng on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fa<Hor, or others
who may have occasion for of goods, i
This property will be fa'd on very reasonable ;
terms for raih. For further information apply !
to the printer.
July 31. . m&wtf
July ji
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
mohiat— rgß*o*«r 19.
A tueffage was received fram the Prei.
dent of the United States, inclosing a Re
port from the Secretary of State, with an
account of the loffej recovered for captures
011 behalf of the citizens of the United
States, undrr tbe treaty made with Great
Britain, which was ordered to be priated.
The bill providing for the widows aid or
phans of certain deceased officers, was read
the third time and passed.
Mr. Gregg presented a petition from Je
remiah Hall and other;, praying that a traft
of land, fix miles square, near the Scioto
river, in the North Wefterti Territory, may
be laid off in a certain manner, and that
payments may be received for it by instal
ments. Referred to the committee to whom
has been referred an enquiry into tie law
for disposing ps this land.
Mr. New presented a petition from the
heirs of the late Colonel Elliott, praying
for certain lands for which they state he
was entitled. It was moved t» be referred
to a feleft committee; but objections being
made to this course, it was afterwards refer
red,to the committee of claims.
Mr. Dent, from the committee to whoiA
fc-as referred two propolitions for amending
the Sanding rulrs of the houfc, reported it
as the opinion »f the committee, that that
which goes to prevent the reconfidrration of
a vote when there are fewer members present
than when it originally passed, ought to be
adopted; but that the one which would
prevent a motion for adjournment from being
in order, when another motion was before
the house, ought not to be agreed to.
Mr. Nicholas wished this report to be
committed to a committee <sf the whole.
Me was not ready to vote upon it j to fay
that no number of members less than had a.
greed to a certain proportion was compe
tent to agree t« another, and of course that
a majority of the house could not do the b»-
finefs of the house.
The report was accordingly committed.
Mr. Dawfon wished the refalution which
he had laid upon the table, on the fubjeft
of admitting persons, who attended the
house for the purpose of taking an account
of its debates and proceedings, within the
ba!r of the house, to be taken up and refer*
red to the fame committee of the whole.
The was accordingly read.
Mr. Sitgreaves thought it would be more
eligible that' this proportion for amending
the rules should have the fame coarse as o
thers, especially as, from the information of
the Speaker, it appeared that the objeft of
thjs refolntion was in praftice, with the ex
ception of one individual note-taker, jwho
had abused the privilege and insulted- the
Speaker and the authority of the house. It
was proper therefore thit the faft fliould be
stated, so as that the houfc might aft upon
it.
Mr. Dawfon had no objeftion to the re
ference the gentleman from Pennsylvania
had pointed out, it was his opinion, howe
ver, that the other would' have been tbe
more direst course.
It was accordingly rtferred to a feleft
committee.
Mr. Harper asked whether the bill provi
ding the means ofForeign Intercoarfe, could
now be considered as unfiniflied : business,
having been poltpoued to day certain?
The Speaker answered in the affirmative.
It had been poflponed to day certain: that
day was arrived, and it had ncJW a preference
to other business.
Mr. Hartley presented the petition of a
number of merchants, traders, and other*
of Philadelphia, praying that some new
Piers may be erefted at Newcastle, and that
the old ones may be repaired.
Some difference of opining arising as t«
the proper reference of this petitfon ; Messrs.
Hartley and Livingfton being is favour of
a reference to the Committee of Commerce
and Manufactures ; and Messrs.' Sitgreaves,
Gallatin and Kittera, for a reference to tht
Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Coit sug
gested the propriety of k# lying on the table
till to-morrow, as he recollefted the fecrete
ry of this Treasury had already made a re
port upon the fubjeft whicfi was referred ta
the committee of Commerce and Manufaft
ures, but he did not know whether or uot
that committee had reported. He wished
time to enquire. Agreed.
Mr. Thatcher said, that on the 20th Ja
nuary, 1795, a petition was presented from
Tobias Lord, and others, praying for leave
to ereft a Pier in Kennebunk river, that
an«ft had been passed authorizing the ereft
ionoffaid Pier under fudh regulations as
should be determined by a law of the State.
He had now received the law which
had been passed, whie h he laid before the
house. The law and papers accompanying
it were referred to the committee of cons,
roerce and manufaftures.
Mr. Davis said, a petition had bee* this
morniug presented, and he had had others
sent to him to present, on the fubjeft of the
North western Territory Lands. He thought
something might be dene on this business,
which-would not only answer the • i'lhes '<>{
the f*ttlers, but might also be beneficial to
the United States. For this purpofe,he pro
posed a refutation which he wished to be re
ferred to the committee appointed an this
fubjeft, proposing certain advantages to
fettleis in that territory, which was agreed
to.
Mr. Gallatin moved that the unfinifhed
business should be poftpomd in order to take
up the report of the committee of claims on
the expediency or inexpediency of excepting
certain claims from the operation of the aft
of limitation ; which being agreed to the
House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the \\ hole on that fubjeft ; and agreed to a
refolntion proposing to suspend for a limited
time, the law barring Loan Office Certifi
cates, final Settlements and Indents of In
tcreft ; and alfato a refolusion is tbt formrecemmendei by the Secretary o(the Trja.
fury, viz.—RefoNed,
" That a time be limited by law, after
which credit on thr books of the Trea fury
Tor tranfadions during the late war, which
accotdiag to the course of the Treasury,
have hitherto btrn aifeharged by i filling
certificates of regiflerrd debt, (hall be barr
ed and declared void, unless claimed by the
proper creditor! or their legal reprefenta-
Bfer"
And, upon motion of Mr. T. Claiborne
the following resolution was agreed to, 45
to 40.
" Resolved that a committee be appointed
to bring in a bill for the relief of Amy Dar
din."
This claim has been long before Congress
and been several times the fubjcCt of difewf-
Son. It is for the value of the famous horse
Romulus, the property of th: hafband of
the petitioner, prelfed into the service of the
United States daring the war. The cafe 1
ef the widow is evidently * hard one, and
this is the second time a vote has been ob
tained in her favour, which has afterwards
been reversed.
The committee rose, reported their a
greement to ifce three refolutiona, and had
leave to fit again. The house took up the
twofirft, agreed to them, and direCted the
committee of claims to bring in 1 bill or bills
accordingly. When the fame resolution
came to be considered, the Yeas and Nays
were called for, and its adoption ftrong'y op •
pufed by Messrs. Harper, Nicholas, and
Bayard, on the ground of its throwing op
en a doortoevery claim which had heretofore
been determined as barred, as cutting up by
the root all the ads of limitation, that it
was also setting aside these laws in the mod
objectionable way, by inviting every per
son who had an unfatisljed claim to petition
Congress for relief, which would o?courfe
en K a £ c much ef their timt; if the aCis were
to he set aside, it would be much better,
and less expensive, therefore, to authorize
the proper Department to fettle these claims
f than that the time of the house should be en
gaged in investigating and fettling them.
On the other hand, its adoption was ad
vocated by Messrs. Gallatin and T. Clai
borne. This was dated as a hard cafe; that
this determination would not open the aCts
ef limitation to any but such as Congress
wight deem extremely hard cases; that it
would give the Treasury no power whatever
to fettle any claim; the power, therefore,
could not be abused, except they themselves
abused it; that whatever policy there might
be in aCts of Limitation, they were certain
ly liable to strong objections; they knew
they were honourably indebted a sum of mo
ney, but they are determined not to pay it,
merely because the paying of it might ren
der the accounts at the Treasury less simple,
or bccaufe they would be liable to pay more
than is convenient. This policy might be
juftifiable, but it bore very hard upon indi
vidual fufferers. It was argued, therefore,
that without opening the aCts generally,
when a strong, unequivocal claim was pre
sented, which was in the hands of the ori
ginal holder, and wlere, of course, there
could be no pnflibility of fraud, relief might
and ought to be granted.
Mr. J. Williams was a* enemy to aCts of
Limitation; as he thought a debt once due,
must always be due until paid; but he
would either have them open generally or
net at all.
The yeas and nays upon agreeing to this
proposition for setting aside the aft'of 1 imi
tation in this cafe (and of coarse in all o
thers which would have borne comparison
with it as to its justice) were as follow:
r E A s.
Meflri. Buird, Benton, Cabell, T. Clai
borne, W. Claiborne, Cby, Clopton, Da
vis, Dawfun, Dent, Elmendorf, Fowler,
Gallatin, Gillefpie,Grove,Harrifon, Holmes,
Jones, Livinglton, Locke, Lyon, Machii,
M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, Milledge, New,
Rotledge, W. Smith, Sprigg, Sumpter,
A- Trigg, J. Trigg, Varnura, Venable,
R. Williams— 3c •
\ NATB.
Messrs. Allen, Bier, Bartlett, Bayard,
Blount, Brookes, Bryan, Bullock, Bur
gess, Champlin, Chapman, Cochran, Coit,
Craik, Dana, Evans, Findley, A. Foster,
D. Foster, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon, Gregg,
Grifwold, Hanna, Harper, Hartley, Ha
vens, Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera,
Lvman, Macon, Matthews, Morgan, Mor-
Nicholas, Otis, I. Parker, Reed, Schure
man, Sewall, Shepard, Sitgreaves.N. Smith,
S. Smith, Sprague, Stanford, Thatcher,
Thomson, Tillinghaft, Vail Alen, Wadf
worth, J. Williams.—ss,
Mr. Harpar then prepofed the following
resolution, which was agreed to :
•' Resolved that the prayer of the petition
•f Amy Dardin, ought net to be granted."
Mr. D. Fester, frem the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of Thomas Marshall- for fervicet
during the war, which was concurred in by
the House.
Mr. S. Smith prepofed a resolution to
the following effeCt ; *
" Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to obtain from the
Collectors of the Customs in the principal
diftriCtsof the United States, a ftatcment
of the vcffels, captured or detained, by or
under the authority of any foreign nations,
since the ill July 1795, exprefing in sepa
rate columns the names and tons each reflet
carried, of the value thereof, by what na
tion captured, whither boand, and where
from, ind that he lay the fame before the
House of Reprefeniatives."
Mr. Isaac Parker had no objection to
this resolution, if the word principal was
omitted.
Mr. Smith agreed to the alteration, and
the resolution was ordered to lie on the ta-
Adj.
Hyson and Young Hyson Vea.
A few chills of excellent nuaiky. for fa's, cor
•tr •£ S«an4 Piur. ftrecu. Ox
xfjc omttc.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY" so.
A. a meeting of a large number of .citizens
at the hoafe of John Dtjawoody.on Mon
day evening, 19th February. Mr. An
drew Tybout in the Chair, Jacob
Chryftler, Secretary.
Rtfilved UnDnimovJty, That from our
knowledge of the integrity, patriotism, and
abilities of Benjamin R. Morgan, we will
pfe the utmost of our endeavours to support
h"" at the ensuing eleCtion for Senator of
the DistriCt, composed of the city and coun
ty of Philadelphia and the county if Dela
ware.
ANDREW TYBOUT, Chairman.
J '.COa Chr vstles, Secretary.
At a meeting of a number of the. citiaens at
the house of Mr. Phillip Timmons, en
Monday, 19th February 1798, James
Crawford, Esq. in tile chair, and Hugh
Holmes, Secretary,
It was unanimoSflyrefolved to support the
EleCtion of Benjamin R. Morgan, on Thurs
day next.
' JAMES CRAWFORD, Ch.irman.
Hvo* Holmes, Secretary.
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Derby and its vicinity, at the house of
Mr. Samuel Ash, on Monday tht 19th
instant,
It was unanimously resolved to support
Benjamin R. Morgan at the ensuing electi
on as Senator for the DistriCt, composed of
the city and county of Philadelphia and the
couoty of Delaware ; and that the citizens
attending the meeting will individually give
. him all the support in their power.
HUGH LOYD, Chairman.
Nathaniel Newlin, Secretary.
At a very large and respeCtable meeting
of the merchants, mechanics and other e
leCtors of the city and county of Philadel
phia at the city tavern on the 17th Februa
ry. 17 9 8 >»
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman,
THOMAS ROSS, Secretary,
It was unanimously resolved, " That the
citizens compufing this meeting, will, to
the utmost of their power, exert themselves
individually to promote the eleCtion of
Benjamin R. Morgan asfenator for this dif- !
triCt ; and they do pledge themselves to
come forward with their votes and interest
in his behalf on the day of the said election,
and recommend.him to their fellow citizens,
as a proper character for the said office. '
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman,
Thomas Ross, Secretary.
Atameetingof a number of the inhab
itants of Delaware county, at the house of
William Anderfon, in the borough of Ches
ter, February 17th, 1798,
It was resolved, with only one diflenting
voice, to support Benjamin R. Morgan at
the ensuing eleftion, for a senator for the
diflriCt eompofed of the city and county of
Philadelphia, and the county of Delaware.
ELISHA PRICE, Chairman,
Wm. Martin, Secretary.
At a meeting of a respeCtable number of
citizens, held on Saturday evening, Febru
ary 17th, at St. Mary's school house, for
the purpose of consulting on a proper per
son tereprefer.t them in the Senate of this
State, John Leamy in the chair,
It was refolded unanimously to support
Benjimin R. Morgan, at theEleCtion to be
held on Thursday next, the 22d ielt.
JOHN LEAMY, Chairman.
Attest, Edward Carrsll, Sec'rj*
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Southwark, and township of Moyamenfing,
at the house of Mr.-James Cameron, in
Shippen street, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted.
Resolved, that this meeting taking into
confidcration the virtues, talents, arid patri
otism of Benjamin R. Morgan, do a
gree to support him individually as Senator
at the ensuing eleCtion, being fully convinc
ed that he will uft his utmost exertions to
support the law 3 and constitution of the U
nited States, as well as of the State of
Pennsylvania. 1
yOSEPH BIRD, chairman
Clement Humphreys junr. Sec'y.
February 16th 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the Citizens
of the DistriCt of Southwark, and town
ship of Moyamenfing, at the ta»ern ofCapt.
John Rice, Mr. Jolhua Humphreys in the
chair
Resolved, That we will use our utmost cx
ertions to support Bexjamis R. Morgan,
at the ensuing eleCtion ef Senator to repre
sent the city and county of Philadelphia,
and county of Delaware ; being convinced
that at this time, peculiarly important, and
interesting to all the advocates of the ad
miniltration of the government of the U
nited States, to support those who are known
to be the friends of order and good govern
ment, is a measure which our duty compels
us to adopt.
JoJhua Humphreys, Chairman.
Peter Miercien, Sec'ry.
14th Feb. 179S-
At a meeting of a number of the Citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden's
Tavern, en Tvefday, I ph February, 1798,
it was una in movjly resolved.
To support Benjamin R. Moroan,
at the ensuing EleCtien, as Senator for the
DistriCt, composed of the city and connty
of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman. N
M. Kef ?ele, Secretary.
th* Members t>ftbe Society 9? friemij in this
C tr and Liberties.
f am not at al? J\irprifr4 t*» find thatr he friends
ac of Tfrael Jfratl have hern eni avounnjs in ap
peal to your pjffions i cxr.-iHljft hit c<.Hdus) as
a member of she committee during the former
•' and late awful vio.ari<*n". lam not in the least
I «icfin u* to « iihho'd the tribute of oraife 4'ie to
him as well as the rffl«f the committee—l fay
QI his does him credit. \ f his naOtives
N" were purely humane,
i- his own breafl io having difcharmed hu duty
ib will prove an ample reward. If however, this
i* not fuflicient, ] >m quite wtUing to join my
fellow-citizens in making any other coinpenfa
,r ti->n that shall be dernied ftecejjhry—*But I never
id can iprer to ronfer on hirn one of rhehigheftofll
ill ces in the £ovemrricnt, which I believe you will
r t jntn me in faying, he ts not cither by education
rr abilities calculated t® fill. He inay be a good
i committee man, and yet make a very poor mem
ber of the bigheft branch of the legiditure.—
Divest him of the influence of the party, and
their motives that support kim, and fume of my
objections would be JclTened —look at the con
c*ud\ of these men from their very outlet to
support him. la that ever memorable year 1793,
when a great number of the inhabitants had fled
from their habitations, and a cocftderable ma
jority of thrvfe who remained were ruerxubelm
rs ed in distress, and you behold ibem capable of
h attempting to take advantage of thii dreadful
calamity by bringing forward this very man.
Ie i >ifappoitited in their firit atrempt, they seize
f. the very next opportunity of the Ike nature,
and obtain a fm'all majority of votes—they arf
again fruftrated ; a committee of the Senate
has declared his efe&inn inv.ilid; ihey now
come forward & seem determined to carry him
at 211 events; again look at their conduit ; at.
is feverat lat«- meetings of the inhabitants, ka've
>f they not attempted to deny the right to any but
themklves, of peaceably meeting together ? Is
not discord and confufion their elcmeut I It Cer
tainly ii—but I have already said more than I
} intended. Examine these fails for yourselves,
and then permit me to alk you, are you aot
f loudly called upon in support of some of the ve
c ry principles of your profeffion ( peace and good
, or'er) to cortie forward at the ensuing elefjion,
c and give you. votes for Benj. R Me I Is
this not a duty you owe (o the government, un
der which you enjoy the ineJlimakU blessings of
religious and civil libfcrty > I hope not one of
yon will negleA or refufe complying with so
reasonable a recjueft, and whic'h you must he
x convinced is the desire of a l»fe majority of the
a.ft rcfpr&ablt inhabitanta.
A FRIEND TO GOVERNMENT.
M*. FFNNO,
Severalfalfe k malicioui report! refpefling
tk« conduft and determiaati.n of the com
mittee of the feuate who tried the centeft
e ed eleftion of Israel Israel, haying been iu
» duftrioufly circulated with a view to answer
s 1 eledirtneering purpofei, and one of them,
f , that-the eormuittcc wai much divided . you
- \ are hereby authorized to assure the public,
J that the membcrt of the committee differ
l ed in opinion only as to the manner of aiak
> ing their report; but at to the very faint
, contained in the fpccification upon which
the report ii founded, they were unanimaut.
For th« truth of this aflertion I appeal to
the committee.
Ont of the Committee..
- Feb. aotll, 1798.
MR. FINNO,
I cannot conceive that th* power of paf
r fieri and party prejudice can fa inflame the
J mind, and obfeure the operations of feafoa
e that a majority of our fellow citizens will
f be induced to vote for Israel Israel in pre
ference to Benjamin R. Morgan—to name
the two charafters in competition proves
that it is a party quejlion, and the good citi
zens are to determine which is to ptevail, a
f faftion, or the friends of their constitution
*! and government. Among the various ftrat
r agems, and vile falfehoods, by which the
anarchills endeavour to accomplish their di
s abolical views, I know of none more feri
otifly alarming, than that of which an ac
count was given in your paper of yesterday.
' At several of the late meetings of the e»e
---c j mies of our government, I am told, h has
been aflcrted, that the fcderalifts intend ap
pearing on the eleftian ground armed.—
While we cannot but Ihudder at the idea,
shat we hare mifvreants among us, who
could boldly publilh so daring a falfehood,
' we camot at the fame lime be ignorant of
their views. The time is not yet come when
* they lhall dare to fay to their co-adjutors,
" arm yomfclves—the federal part are lovers
» of peace and order, we are not the moll nu
merous—therefore we will intimidate, they
- will be afraid to appear on the ground."
r Thi« is what they dare not openly avew,
• yet to my mind their language forcibly iai
o plies the fame. But are the friends of peace
- and order to be intimidated? No, the lan
f S ua g e 'be failion wiil aroufc them from
their fupfnenefs, they will now behold the
necessity of supporting the government and
'. railing their country to that degree of nati
onal dignity, as not to be endangered by fo
reign influence, or txpoftd to be (haken by
s the atts of seditious foreigners. The fame
- fpirif which has fuak the citizens of France
. in misery, and been the parent of crimes o
e ver which humanity must foreverweep—that
fame spirit a&uates the faftion in this conn
try. And it now becomes the interest and
the duty of every good citizen to exert his
_ influence and exercise his rights, thathe may
contribute his all, to avert the dangers to
j which his couutry is exposed. When he
j (hall have done this, he will have performed
duti.a which he owes to himfelf, his God
and his country. But if the peaceful citi
zen is to be intimidated from giving his
vote, this Will encourage the faftion in their
s views—this will be success to the utnoft of
their wiihes. Then " they will', like Buo
naparte, CONQU E R ALL BEFORE T«tM."
Then all powerwill be fubmittedto the hands
of a mob—infnrreftirji will become the or
der of the day, our houses will no longer
t remain otir catties, and peace, happiaeft and
f security will be banilhed from among us.
) Feb. soth. Truth.
The managers of the City Dane
> ing Assembly give notice that on account of an E
: le<9ion ro be held on Thursday the aid inft. the
j Ball in honor oi George Washington's birth,
is prfloned to Friday the 13d instant.
Ladi-s and.Gent'lemen are requested to deliver
their Cards of Ixtvitauon at the door.
Feb. 17. §t»3d
j C. IT 17. ENS!—ATTF.NI) I
I fn nrdrr that jpou may know the characters
tli.lt fiippftr- the mm ai Senator, who wilhed
tirath, to thofc uhn marched to pjpprrfs the
western infurrciOion, and who for his
wii h»und over before the Chief Tuflire.it may
he protirrto Bate that at a meetinr of whrh E
lifhi (fO.rton was chiirman.ia I A.C Dupla'mr,
fnrttjrir, it was u ianimoufly agreed to support
j Ifrarl Israel.
I This secretary ii the Frenchman who was
consul under Genet at Hoflort, a*id who, for his
mifbthariour • office, w»a ilifplaeed by the late
. Present of the United States, as appears by the
, following documenti:
• October jd, 1793.
Mr. Jefferfon, Secretary of Jitate, to Mr.
Duflame, Vice Consul »f France, at Bos
ton.
Sit,
AUTHENTIC information being re
ceived, that, under colour of your office,
as vice-roof 11! of the Republic of France,
you have, with an armed force, opposed
the courfc of the laws of the land, and rcf
cued out of the hands of an officer of juf
sice,, a velTel which he had arrcfled by au
thority of a precept from his court. The
President of the United State! bai consider
ed it as inconsistent with the authority of
the laws, and the refpedt which it h his of
fice t* enforce to them, that you Ihould any
longer be permitted to exercise the fuo£ti«ns
or eajoy the privileges, of rice consul in
these United States ; and has therefore
thought proper, by the letters patent, of
which I enclofc you a copy, to revoke the
exequatur heretofore granted you, and to
make the fame public. J have the honor, al
so to enclose copies of the evidence where
os this mcafure is founded.
And to be, tte.
Th : JEFFERSON.
Georje IVa/iington, President of the United
State: of America,
To all •whom it may concern,
THE Sicur Antoinc Charbonet Du
plainc, heretofore having produced to me
his eommiffion as vice consul for the Re
public of France, within the dates of New-
Hampshire, Maflaehufetts and Rhode-Isl
and, and having thereon received from me
an exequatur, bearing date the fifth day of
June, 179J, .recognizing him as fueh, and
declaring him free to exercise and enjoy such
funftions, powers and privileges, as are al
lowed to vice corfuls oT the French repub
lic, by the laws, treaties, and conventions,
in that cafe made and provided, and the said
fieur Duplainc, having under colour of his
said office, committed sundry encroach
menti, and infraftions on the laws of the
land, and particularly, having caused a ves
sel to be rescued, with an armed force, out
of the custody of an ofScet of justice, who
bad arretted the fame by process from his
coutt ; and it being therefore no longer fit,
aor coafiftent with the.refpeft and obedi
ence due to the laws, that the said fieur D«-
plaine ftould be permitted to coatinue in the
exercise and enjoyment of the said func
tions, privileges and powers : These are
therefore to declare, that I do no longer re
cognize the said Antoine Charbonet Du*
plaine, as vice consul of the Republic of
France, in aay part of the United States,
nor permit him to exercise or enjoy any of
the funftions, powers or privileges, allow
ed to the vice consuls of that nation ; and
that I do hereby wholly revoke and aanul
the said exequatur heretofore given, and
do declare the fame to be absolutely uull
and void, from this day forward.,
In tcftimony wheieof, I have caused these
letters to be made patent, and the seal
of the United States of America to
be hereunto affixed.
Given under my hand, this
da T of in the year of our
Lord, 1793, and of the Indepen
dence of the United States of A
mcrica, the eighteenth.
Geo: WASHINGTON.
By the President,
Th : JEFFERSON.
After readine and confiderinj these docu
ments, can any candid man helitat- to believe
that con/ufion and revolution are the obiefls of
the tribe of Israel ?
MARRIED—At I)*ver, on Wednesday I
evening,the r 4 th inft Mr. Thomas E. Rum- i
SfcT, of Wilmington (D.)mer. to Miss Har- j
RIET SYREs,«f Dover.
—On Thursday evening last, at the feat of
Mr. John Bellach, near D«ver, William Col
lins, Esq. of Kent County, to the amiable and
much celebrated Miss An* BellaCH, daughter
of Jataca Bellach, Efq deceased.
To Correfpsnderrts.
Camus, tho* personal, is not intereftfng.
CO Mr. FRANCIS informs the fubferi
bers to his feleft Balls, that the lft Ball in
tended for this evening is poftponcd to the
27 th ioft. #
GAZETTE MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The ship George, Captain Rice, from
Philadelphia, arrived at Surinam the I2th
ult. two days before, in the mouth the
river, was boarded by two BritiAi criiizers
and treated civilly.
The brig Charlotte, Capta'n Pearofe, of
this port, arrived at Ealtimorc, from the
Havanna.
The outward bound vefTcls still remain at
Marcus Hook.
A fehooner from Weft-Indies, about 90
tons burthen, loaded with coffee and cotton
was cast away near Indian river la ft Thurs
day night—captain and crew saved.
~to~theT^blic7
A PUBLIC Meeting having been ad
vertised to be held at my Hotel, on
Wednesday evrning, the 21ft inft. I am
sorry that it is not in my power to accom>
modate the gentlemen on that evening, as
the Rooms were prcvioufly engaged.
JAMES OELLERS.
Feb. 20.
TH"f. Nf' -gtr« <lre»n it their dot? to inform ih®
Public hit K« E»»t,-r i men sol the The«tr<* are vn«
ivoic.«<b yfu'pepdrd 'ttil.M •> dtvnrx'Vn conlequcnco
•f ihr anion Mr*" 'inHi'pcfvirv* of M-. Moii ior,
(be »rJari<i«i defclK n «%t M Cooper, and the Urt*
prrcecUnled. p*rempo: 't uf*l of Mr. Finvili
10 perform the chatftl r t una 'otr:rrd for him. Ot
th? si U g.n-Ifmi.i ihr Ma apt must «ver fpr»lt in
terms ot acknowledgment. afrorobaticn and frret.d*
(hip. for that uniform M -i(iia in hia piof: (Hon,
whfch hat ?t once advanced ihe nerefUof the drama
>nd juflly rendered him a favo itenf v s patroni. On
M • Cooper 'a con Huft, thrv can m <ke u-» remark ac
t'«ia time, auhe vio at ion of hi* oMKia&is'he fjhj £
of a fat, new depending in theSurremc C u rt: ar>4
; ia relation to Mr\ Fennel I, they »re content, at prfU
eot, o rbfe.ve, that ike g o>d>l h
which his engagement • to inlpi.e, the liberali
ty that he haa hi henoexperienced f>om .he mannrrra,
aa wel. as rom the public, had hj u ally raited an ex
pe&jtirn that he would not migrate fully have taken
ad van'age ol the editing ft.-e ofihf Theatre, citherto
cmb*rr-<»Ue lormar, or to obdruek the arcufemcnca of
(he htier
The Managers, having thus rafpedfully repre
sented th tea cuf of the poftponcment of
their £.Ti:cft^ialiens {an event equally ua?xpe&*
c 1 aD <* prejudicial) cannct avoid adverting to
the difficulty tf exe.uting, with naforfrl
bat;on, so htc'uous a talk as tlat which they have
undertaken; but rhcy fol.maly declare that im every
department of tbeir duty towards the public, and
in all their with the performer, their*
i inccflant effort* has been to give fatitfadion ; and
and.f this declaration they anxiously hope that
(hall experience /a vor and protection j a candid tn«
, tcrpretation of their condud, and a spirit as mu
tual accomniadatioa.
WIONELL (3* RIINAGJLE.
February to.
Proposals for Puslissh.'no
A new Commercial Work in the City of
Philadelphia, to be entitled
The Philadelphia Price-Current,
■AND
Nautical Recorder.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subicriber having been engag
ed in carrying on" a publication in Bo ft on
Mder the title .f the •• £.f.„ rri,. Cmrn„/
Ma, rnc Ipclligtnctr / a WO rk, for utility and ex
tern of circulation, equal perhips to any pu! lica
tion ®f the kind in Europe or America, is now
11 luced to ri?qu« an attempt to publi£h a flmilar
paper under the patronage of. ihe citjiem of Phi.
ladclphn. He makes the attempt from a perfua
fioh that a publication for general benefit, and rt
tenfive information, will receive ai much fupporc
from the liberal minds of the merchant* and other*
of this city, as places of less opulence in theUci
ted States—and although little immediate benefit
should result to the eiti«en. Irom fiich a publica
tion, yet it might prevent an idea abroad which
some have .nduflrioxfly circulated, that the trade
a j C * tCn Clt * wa,on decline, and con
traded into so narrow a sphere that it would not
support a Price Current.
The general anxiety that prevails in the com
mercial world at thi* critical pcriad, renders a
work ot the kind particularly ufeful and neceiTarf
j— Nor can the utility be doubted, whel it is cna-
Udercd how extenfivoa the trade and particularly
the infmnee are affeAcd in this city, a careful
puoucation of the failing and arrival of vessels in
different parts of the worU-advice from veffela
at lea accidents happening in and out of port,—
araever circumftanc.s that ought to he known by
the merchant and underwriter, and one informa
tion cfthia kindmay save more than the cost of a
hundred papers through life. The Editor cngig
es to use his utmost endeavors to make it honora
ble and profitable to himfelf, sensible that it can
be done only by making it acceptable to his patron*
■ 1 his publication will contain a general Price
Current of all articles of importat on, with the
duties on importations, in this City, New-York
a».J Boston—Foreign Prices Current, ift general;
to obtain which the v/rious European publication
Will b« procured, particularly thefc of X.ondon,
Liverpool, Bristol, Hamburgh, &c.-=!l arrival*
and clearance! in the principal ports in America,
and every article of nautical informa-io. which
ciu in any manner be ufeful or interefling tomer
"i" general. It will likewise contain PrieM
of Stacks in the different parts of the United States,
corrected by eminent Broker;.—Cuftoin house im
portation.—Laws, Arrets and Decrees oi commer
ciai tendency, & c . icc.
I E I |1 ||
lit. To tie printed with a nfl .v type, on goodpapei
of a large crown size, and contain 4 pages folio,
id. It will be publiflied twice a week, and deliv
ered wfubferibej-s in the city early on the morn
ing* cf publication, and forwarded to those out
cit 7 I ' K! greatest expedition and care.
2 The price will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one dollar on the delivery of the firii
number; on« dollar at the expiration of three
months and th rrfidue at the eud of the year.
4th. Subscribers for the work in auy other place
than the city, t.O pay one half years fubfcriptiou
mnney.
jth. The work to begin ai soon as five hundred
fubferibers arc procured, of which notice will
bi-
0" Subscription papers will be placid in the
various public offices. &c. atrd fentin the courfc of
the week, to the citizens in general, for their pat
rol"Ke - JOSEPH N. RUSSELL.
February 8 0. tuf&mjt
Ne=u>-Tork, January aa. I-g S*
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor <.f the Reading Room ;
For Pulilifhing by Subfcriptioii,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madams Roland ;
" Wife of the Minister if the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
•These scarce arid very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London udi
t'onsin a few month*,) will be comprised is 3
vo!s. oflavo. ol 400 papes eat h.
They wid be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subtrirers, neatly bound
and letteird, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume —one third of the S'.ibCcnprion motley to be
paid ondili-etv of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the wet* iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and ethers, who
at quire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made* }
Subscriptions are taken »t the Reading-
Room, K» 149, Water street—the Printing-
Ofiiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the difTcreut
Bookfteret in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner. f Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As f< on as a fuffcint number of Sublciibert
are obtained, the work will be put to preft, and
compleated with the utmofl dispatch.
Feb. 10. eodtm
FOR SALE,
A quantity ot CALF SKINS, in the rough,
and some horfc leathc-. Apolv to
ROHERT SMITH y Co.
No. sii South Front flrc-t.
Ftb, Ij. >jwJUST RECEIVED,
AMD r<>ft (All, AT
W. You no's Book-store,
Corner of Cn-fnnt and Second ftrevts,
( Price 5® Cents J \
Caafcs qui le font oppofecs aux
Progru r.y ttmmrrce, cntxc I. \ 9K ANC£ «t let
Et <t I .ie L'AMERIOUE.
Avce tel Moyen» de l'accelerer ;
£t h comparailon de la Dette Nationale
de rAnglctcrre, dc U France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In iix Lcttrct, addreflfcg a Monfieurlc Mar
quis »K LA Fayitte. Traduitfur lc Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancicn
Membrc dc la Legiflaturc dela Rlpublique
du MafTachiiflret.
Le C6namcrc« eft la portion !a plus importante des
(RichelTes Nationales.
—LcTrident dc Neptunc, eft k fceptrc du M ondc.
Limiiii*
Or ctufes that have been oppofod to the
fKOGRKSS of ( OMMERCE botween
PRANCE and ike UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marqtois
de la Fayitti.
Traniated (into French from the original Eng
li(h Manufcrivt of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber vf the Legillature of Ma/Tachufetts.
Commerce i» the mod important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
■ Ihe 1 rident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world* Liwuaa.
AT a juncture when the qutflion of
a Com met eial Treaty vtitb France may soon
become an ohjcA of discussion, a work of this kind
hecoa.es extremely ufclut to those sitizen* of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubjed, under its various af
pe&s ; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
furnifhed with the neeeflary data, to judge of the
ufeiulnefs of this tranfadion.
This work is principally diftinguilbed by the
richncfs of the observations, the pirfpieuity of the
i«cas. and the modeily of the theory which it
contains. t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufotul produce. It i» addref •
fed to the unfortunate La FaYitte, in letters,
which fugitive fo r m, the author who could only
devote a lew weeks to this occupation, was «.bliged
•o adopt. Although eircunill sticks art ill many
rcfpe&s different at the present day, from what
they were in the year i79">, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfoluteard permanent dau (till remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lefsou that account on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the rc
fijlt of the author's remarks, it will fcrvc to con
vince him that in all tr&afadions, between free
nations, every thing maybe cxpo&edfrom the «f
forts of truth and justice.
LETTER I.
General view of ths obftacles.'cr sated in France,
to prevent the cxtenfion of commerce, with the
IT nurd States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for thut cxprefs purpose, nponfomc French manu
factures (a precious fragmv.<*l this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
against the quality of certain produdions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demomlration of the bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
previ lions in general, and on fait provisions, and
fi(h in pa- ticular—Confederations on the regulations
of the French culiom-houies.
LETTER 11.
Obllaclcs to the cxtenfion of trade with France,
proceeding from Circumfiances and individuals in
the United States—Proofs that these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and thewifdomof govern
ment—Hi/tory of the influence of the American
eonfiderations on money and circulation—Causes
of the llagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French < s oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduA
of the French merchants—Efieds of good com
mercial laws; ardpatriotic wiftieson thisfubjed—
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER 111.
Eftayin the form < f a tableau, to appraise tbt im
ooitations into the United SlatesJrom France and Fngm
land united. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furniihed from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeS (which
would haveaftoniftitd a mere thtorift) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
Kind of tableaux, uuiuckily as difficult to obtain at
ihey are much to be defiled, are the only fuie guides
the ftatefirian can take for the policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We c?nr»ot too much admire the apparent ex
adoefs of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the propkefies of Lord Sheffield have already been
ecu rarii&eil by experience, and by fevcrai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the prelent work,
difpuie with him the only grout d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Gicat Britain to supply us with several articles,
which tha Englilh authoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patriality ajfeft an (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
» partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in >709, that is to fay, at a period when arts
and manufadures did sot present in France the vast
means and probability of cxtenfion which they now
poffrfs. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given auantity of the produdions of Franct
and I ngland unite«, but also to enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of ber government, and the industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuitablencfs to
France ; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excellent woik of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no mean* fupafluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation t.f provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon thin argument, that
the author establishes his demands to the French go
veinment, for the limited adtnifHon of the produc
tions ot his country into Frantc.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effc&sof national debt, on circulation, Ac. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Boston in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
flrengthen in France, the pubi c and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in the abled manner, and un
der the moll finking iela:ions, by very cu ious cal
culations—Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenses in Maflachu
fetts. In this place the patriotism of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation wh'ch ajuft national
pride inlpi et,. rhe ancient governments ofßnrope,
fays he, will (earn from us the art of economy in
recompcnfing the frivices which the country receives:
Among fl us it u ilt % be seen, that men are chajen Jar places,
and not placesfi.* men. This letter coi.ciud<s wnh a
general view of the public property, deposited in the
hands of the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General cxaminatiou ot the defeats of the commer
cial policy of France with refpett to the United States ;
many ol these observations have produced the effids
for which they 1 were intended, others still remain
pointing out the reforms ro bemad- i« futuic, as a
„ooi chart maiks the fhcals and locks* The au ksr
eoAcfades his 'work, by fixing his sitonrioa on kis
Country, and the great men who have rendered it il
lufttioos . and we take a pleasure io quoting what he
f*y» of the present chief of our To
praise a :nan when he e ercifes a distinguished em
ployment, is common, and ma> be taken for flattery j
but whilst he is io private life, it ia the homage of
sincerity.
Note, page 31$ of the work,
• Lea hatiiians des fctats-uois, fuivant dam leur
choix le hieu public, 4c excites par an principe dc
recomioi(rai>ce, hoibrcnt M. John Adams pour vice
prefidcnt du nouve.u congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le pcuple des intrigues formccs p»r le gnuv
fruement AngUia contre fa liberie, le rendrrent tr«-
fufped a ceux qui etoient en pouvair. Le peupie,
convaincu de son meiite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congres. De ce nomkrc
etoit audi M Samuel Adams, patriote auffi intrepitL,
qu'infatigable. La revolution Ameticaiue doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, Sc a fes taleas
diftiuges. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes
dans lc traite de paix, qui s'ell fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre audi habile que grand |
politique. Lt dans son ouvrage fur la defenfe de la
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes lescan
noilTances qui forment les vrais jurifoonfultes Sl les
ftommosde loi; connoiffdt.ces necelTaires, pour rem
plir honorablement les fondions de prefidentdu fenat
des Stata-uois.
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where be has ftudicd several years under one of
the mod eminent mailers in that ftience)
INFORMS his friend-, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.-—Terms, as afwal, Sac
Dollars per month, for attendance |hree ti*itfs a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous tp those that ooploy him, a
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line direded to W. H. loft at the ollicc of this
Gazstte, will be immediately attended to.
January §iw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the last will and toiament of
William Hkvsham, deceased, and poflef
fion give-n immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth streets, confid
ing of thehoufe, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ereded, a ftabl*, and other improvements.—
The honfa is 20 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water ami
a very capacious walled cittern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The ftabie (lands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four liprfes and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court audan alley, 8 feet wide,ext«id
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofleffes with refped to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
person wifbing to poflefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No S-?, Viae
Street—of
Robert Hcysham, f
or >AAing Efceeltou.
Fran*if Bowes Sayrs, j
January 11
The Subscriber intends ro make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States,[(landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July 1.1,1797, the fame
having'been loft. JOIIN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. i6w
NOTICE.
ALL pfrfow who have *ny demands against
the estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, 'late of Philadelphia, merchant, de'
ceased, are requested to exhibit their account!,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to th« fatac, are d«fired ta make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, } ~ ... ,
No. 2 S , So. Third-street. J AJn '""J lr r
Janaary 4. dtf
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sate, ly
SIMON WALKER,
Pinc-Jlrect, mar Fifth.
Jinuary 19 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be ha 4 at a moderate price—Enquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan. 17. daw
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wilhesto
sell. For termiapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Walhington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December jot
To be fold,
AN KLEOANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acre* and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, Ice. (ituate on the lri(h tra& lane, in the
townihip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon thu place, for tade and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December r. 4lf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to iflue prop«fals
for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 1775,10
the present time. •
This work fhaß be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose ; and on good paper. It
will be delivered at one dollar per voluaie (o&a
---vo) in 6 vols.—cafh to l-e paid 011 delivery
It isneedlefs to fay anjr thing of the merits of
this undertaking—th<? scarcity of the Journals
throughout the-United 9-ates, is fufficicnt to jufti
fy the printer in his hop® of meeting with that
fucecfs, which he is certain tha enterprize deserves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. il. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and »a\f tierce*
BeuiJeaux Brandy
Tenerije Wine
Molajet
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens liitcl and one hogjhead of pai it
I brujhes.
N. Cs* J. Frazer.
No. 9J, Stnth Front Street.
f>'ov. 7. rl-im
Jujl Publi/hed,
And to be had of Meflfrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Bv BENJAMIN 9MJTH BARTCN. m. ». |
J«ne ic. «4,
PROPOSAL S,
MINTING Br SUBSCRIPTION,
* *A HEW AMD INtCIIITIMC WOKK, CMTITLKI),
. A TREATISE
1 ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and nvif
deMeanor*, by which public and prirate propor
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
Aud suggesting remedies for their prevontion.
*r A MA# ! STRATI,
AAing for the couxititsof Middlesex, Snrry, Kent,
aud Eflex ; for the city and liberty of WcHmin
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
To those tobo bave re m'this curious suidvaluable work,
W \ui!! need no recommendation—they know its /olid merit
—but as it bas hitherto got into very feits bunds in this
country, it mill not be amiss to obferve —-so great roas the
apprjlation und demand in I.onJon, that it P<*Jf*d through
tbt&e large editions in the ceurfe of twelve months. As a
detail of ibe ingenious varieties of fraud, that endanger
property in London, an J muf otber overgrown and opulent
citi:. t it canAvt fail to affot d tbe reader great entertainment
as well as inflruilion ; but as the author traces all these
enormities to a few, and in tbemfrlvn % inconfiderabl caus
es, many of which aftuullj ettijl in all the large capitals of
the United Statu, tic business is brought home to our oien
doors ; and the work has an incrsjfing claim to our atten
tive per ufal.
To affijl the Ugiflator and the magi/Irate in tbe humane
office of preventing crimes, and their consequent punijl
m flats, tv j j the patriotic design of tbe author. 44 Private
offences, be fay:, are tbe source of public crime*, and tbe
bep method of gOarding feciety agasnff tbe latter is, to make
prjer pro-yi ions, for checking tbe former "—>* Tbofe men
are oaftly seduced from their loyalty who are apofiates from
virtue."
CONDITIONS.
Tfiis work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Englifli p*per —It will be delireredtn
fubferibers, bound in boards, ac the moderate price
ot One Dollar and a half; although the lait London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly boand, is
now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To non-sub
scribers the price will be Faifcd.
Whatever encouragement may be given by fnb
fcription, it will be committed to the profs withont
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
£5" Subscriptions will be thankfully recsivedat
Binjamin Bavics's's book-ftoie, No. 68, High
ftreet, and by mod of the other bookfellersin the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
eel Campbell, and A. Druir.mnnd, in New-York.
January 31. 2awtA
ROSS fcf SIMBON,
HATI FOR SALS,
A few bales Baftas, Coflfas, and
» quantity of Bengal COTTCN
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and base I
Jamaica,
St. Vincent,, i RVM.
«rd Bengal J
300 caflu RICE, and
A parcel of ship b«ilding RED CESAR.
Q«. 17. f
To be Exchanged for
BritUb, German, or India GtoJt,
IK THE PACX AC E ;
A trad of valuable Land
I» Lycoming, joining that of the Holland *o.
and captaining io,coo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Tsn- i.e.
COLOMBIA IiUUaE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with much pleas.
ureand returns ter Cncere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
fh; has received during four years relidence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has ma le a, superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of Iter
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in flieir
refpe<Sive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The situation is perfedlly healthy: and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE, - at
Wm. Young's Beak Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
again ft WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfd of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftrfe&ing them « to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcover the whole nature and cxt*st
" of the offence whereof the said Willism Blount
" stands impeache.., and who are the narties and
" affociatesthersin."
Printed by order of the House ofKeprefenttti-ue,
December 20. 5
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS thafe who wi(h to recur tq the only
means of becoming ptrfeft in the French Lan- !
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con- j
fitting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the baft cal- !
culated to afford either ufeful inftrudion, or plca
fure. The conditions, together with a eataloguc
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. 1. All traaflations from and into the French,
Englili and Spanish Languages, exeeu:ea with ac
curao and dispatch. eoirn nov. ij.
Samuel Pleafants S3 Sons,
No. 74, South Second-flreel,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, an
reafonihle terms. Ofl *7 —4<v
This Day is Publiflied,
8Y Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell t Ric % and the
other Bookfcllcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVuvr paper, and Hot
preffed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several Stotes with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Conftitutio«i, and
claflingtogether their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration j with
NousVid Observation*.
By WILLrAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina^
L L. D. arrtl member of the Congress of the
Unitad States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3>4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX 'ok SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and fixtlr
day morning, between the hours of XO and 13-
hack of no. 37, south Fifth street, above Spruce
ftreet. eodaw
James C. y Samuel W. Fisher.
AT TUKIX STOKE,
Nojlj, corner of Arch and Front street.
MAFE FOR SALE t
Cotton and uorfted Hoficry in trunks,aflorcd
A few bales red, white, and ye How Flannel
Dirto futty romall Handkerchief*
Ditto Puilicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry aod Madrafs ditte
Ditto Gnrrahs
Bengal bla:k Taffetio
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chsfts best Hyson Tea
Alfo—lsoo boxes be& London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. GlaU
Ware assor ted, which they will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 jtawtf
Imported (via New York) on tfie
fliip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and tor
sale by the fubferibtr, -t Nw. 61, Chefs* uc street, |
between Seccttd and Third Streets, the follow
ing article* .
Mahar agonies Charconna Downs
Chintz ani Culicees Dacca worked muslins
Gillis RoraaU Smdannoes
Nillas 5c Penfiafoes Chafla RomaU
Blue cloth Hair ribjipo
MullMuJttiankerchicfs l-*ilempore»
Patna do. Panares Opium
Leflcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
n.vcwthcr t tutU»4w
Valuable Boolsis,
Jud reeWved by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, N*. 41, Chefnut Street.'
CATALOGUES
Of the newly imporcedbooks maybe had gra- !
til. Thei'c added to O's usual flock, form an
extensive and elegant collciiio* of ancient and
modem literature, and ooraprife books in fa«-
dry languages and en various fubjeflk
TSay u PMDud, j
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely ;
bound andl«tter«d, and embellifhcd with ail
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.) ;
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O *,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable coll«v!lion of interesting and
m'rfcellaneeus incident!, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy tft'eflsif youthful in
nocence and filial sfFciiion—ln prose and verse.
Designed te improyo and amufethe riling gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pttblifhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Fcmalt Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to lubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliflied wit;!) an elegant frontilpiece, for ooe
dollar.
January j. •. 3 t.
" TORTaIeTTt '
William Priestman,
129, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-house,
A large ajjbrtment of
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King''of England
Ditto, by barker .
Pair duelling Pistols, by Knubley, Charing
Crofii
Refle&ing TeWfcope, by Ribright
tfox of patent Medicines
60 lba Scotch Thread
Small colledion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
3©,0c0 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented byPcrcival Butler, in 1757.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
January 4. d 7 t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. .{*, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for fak, a very large aflbrt
ment of Englijh, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large la mo. price 1 dol 75 ers.
Ditto, oommon, price 1 dol. 50 cfs.
All fojts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pasteboards,
iheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleAion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. o«avo.
By William Young, Boolfelltr,
No. 5 2, Second ftrect, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Prise, in boards, 87 I 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principle! edabliihed in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.D.
With an attempt to correal some important er
rors ofthat work, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their pra&icr, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatbs & Cuas. Maclean. \
To which i»fubj»ined, a Treatifc on the a&ion ,
of Mercury upon living: bodies, .and its applica- ,
tion for the cure of diitafes of indire<3 debility. ]
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epidcmicand, i
Pellilentialdifsafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove <
by a numerous induflion of fa/Is, that they lie- i
ver a rife from contagion, but are always produ- i '
ced by certain dates, or certain viciflitudes of <
the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclean, of "
Calcutta.
fut
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near '
the centreof the city—for which a generoui ,
rent,wili be given; to be taken tor a year, or on ]
more for a longer term. Inquire#/ths Printer. *
OA- '7- eotf
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY 1
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
December ~i. Iw
The cargo of the Well-linlian from
Jamaica,landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhdi. and 30* barrels choice Cottee
98 Hhd» of prime Sugar
aj Hhds. of Rum.
For fait By
Peter Blight.
who also omits re* iali,
300,000 Lb» of Java Coffee
800 Bag* 00. Sugar
Cloves and mice in boxea
A ouantity of Hifpamola Coco*
Red Port Wine in pi pet and hogfcead®
s Madeira do. io pipes
i *>b.uar\ 6 dZwcotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a considerable time on the
L million in the country parti of the Bate of Penn
sylvania, gives this notice to any extcnGve pro
' prictor of land within the said state, antl bordtr
ing on either the Potomack, Sufqi*channa,_pr
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tleinent with from fifty to one hundred and sis
„ tv families, if due encouragement lie effered.—
For further information, apply ts the Kev. Leo
nard Neale, Willing's Alley.
< Feb. X. *^t
For Sale.
r^u ' ,^cr '^' r offers for sale eh# property bow
i occupied by him in the town of W'eft-Oheftor
and county of C heller. It confnlsof a well finifhed
two flory (lone house, 43 feet front, by about 49
deep, four reoms on a floor, with cielcd
I anu a cellar under the whole—A very good ft one
n Stable and Coach house-—And a lot of Ground;
v three perches wide, by twenty perchesdf pth.
Ihe house (lands on the Main street; it* fitnation
is high and very handsome ; the lot txtends to &
, back (free , 011 which the stable and coach house
1- (land. The lot is in a high slate ®t cultivation,
n and there is in the yard a pump cf excellent water,
a which has, at no time, be§n known t® fail.
I- Ihe htuatiou of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country ground it, fertile aod
Deautiful.
The term* of payment will made to suit the
y purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
u upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm-tii, at 110.
\ M9> South rhird-ftreet, Philadelphia, or to
I ROBERT FRAZER.
' F«bn»ary 5- mwftf
City Commifjioner'ti Office,
, January utb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OJ THt CITIZENS.
0 ' following arrangement.is made by the
" i- &ld commissioners, for clcanPing the
'• ftrcttt, &c.
Diftridt No. i.—From the north fide of Viue
street, to the south fide of Mulberry ftreetj to
'> be under the fupcrinttndance of Nicholas Hicks.
2. From the south fide of Mulbrry itreet, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to lie under the
II fuperintendance o-f William Moulder,
k 3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
e the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
•- fuperintendance of Jol'eph Claypoile.
d 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to th«
e south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
OVAL BOTTLES!
Quart and half gallon in crates —andaquanti'
r ty of Claret Bottles of a right size—For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
J-inuai v 11 ;taw6w.
Recently Publijhed,
And jaft imported from England, by William
Griffiths, No, 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Morgan J. Rhees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes .in Bvo. (Pr ce 3 dollars)
g Illustrations of Prophecy :
1* which are elucidated many prediAions, which
occur in Isaiah, Danisi, the writings of the Evan*
gelifts, and book of Revelation ; whicb are tho*t
to loretell anaeng other great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the interests of mankind*
e the overthrow of the papal of ecclesi
astical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
andftielubfcquent nedioration of the state of the
world : tegetfeer with
A large collection of Ext raffs, v
Interspersed through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, » Sir Isaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William I.ewth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Flemiilg,
Dr, Hem y More, Eengeims,
'• Dr. John Owen, Dau*iuz,
Dr.CrciTencr, .Vhitby,
,l Peter Juries, 1 own,an,
* Brcnius, Bishop Ntwfion, and
:s Bilhop Chandler, Bilhop Htird.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Bafides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a confiderabfe number of !a£ls or
d ftrvations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
j, the authenricity, tifes, and eb'l'curity ol the apo-'
(( ralypfe, and thegenuinenefs of £h» Hebrew pro
,f phetr; on the rapid corruption as chridianity i*
r the fourth century ; on the difperlion and reftora
tisn of the Jews, the history of the Mefliahs
C who have appeared among them, and the rsafons
1 in support of the conj dure that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the
raQftar.ee to oppreffon; on the Eruptions of tha
. northern nations, aud the causes of the decline and
1 fall of the Roman empire jon the eufloms of tf.o
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the eonquefts ol those nations, and thofeof'the
• Turks ; on the fifurpationof the Mamalukcs, and
tbw pall history and prefect state of Egypt •on
, the chara&er and conduct of Cdnftantine, Jullini
n, Clovls, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
i books in the dark ages, and the causes of tiiede.
clinc of literature j on th« rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the caofes of its fall ; on the in
cor.fiftencies in the political charaflers of bifhopa
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
i Tfi. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the benoficial
effefls which ehriftianity has produced in favor ol
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to
mote the eOabliftimc nt of equal governments.
Independent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in th Je volumes, those wha u«
Intcrefted in thefubjeel will, it isprefumed, wifti
to peruse or confultthem, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, a*d
marked with inverted commas, are taken from »
greater number of writers on the prophciies (a
loalt if the roman catholic commentators he ex
cluded) than are ealilj acceflible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
ill any one library in tke-world. They are l»r
---nifted with indexes, and a copious table of cob
lents - Jan. az—2aw2w
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a fnperior quality tnanufaflgred,
GINGER and ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale';
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine)
.uitable for exportation or home confumptroH.
The hight ft pi ice given for Muftard-Sced.
/lIJo for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
lla jtes, a variety of colors; a baleof
rufiians, Shawis, Alc, for falebv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-ftreet.
«»»• 3 7- m.&tk.t.ij.