of m States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMfiEft 1786.J
i£FOR SALE,
IfAfcSjr RICHMOND,
i arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's c(
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpedl as r <
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to- la
gether, copper bolted and fhcathed. She is 80 t<
feet keel 27) feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be- S
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of p
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30
LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda; William Brown, |
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of r ( ,
SUPERIOR QUALITY, O
Brandy in Pipes, 11
FOR SALE. d
Thomas & J°hn Ketland.
I ith two pair four pound CAN- •*
l '" nw - and one pair lilb. CAR- t
may 29 §
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE SHIP
LIBERTY;
Isaac Vredenbercer, Mailer,
A good new vcffel, fails well—
Lying at Clifford's Wharf, will fail about thctenfho
next month, a considerable part of her Cargo bein
engaged*—For freight or p?fTage apply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall veflelsto this port.
may 29 dtf
For Cape Francois,
NOR TH AMER ICA,
"TO fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or palffage apply to
Pratt iff Kintzing,
No. 9?, North Water* near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR. SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Bfimeftqne, Red
(JJrufl Chcefe, Tumblers, Tieklenburghs, Heffens,
Brown Rolls, &c. &c.
may 25 eod6t
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably lad failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jeremiah Tatem, matter.
She will fail in ten days—for
freght or paflage, apply to JAMES TARD.
Walnut-Jlrcct Wharf.
may 23 dlst
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
BEL VID ER E,
Jonathan Reynolds, Majler,
L YIMG at J efleand Robert Wain's
New-York, by Mr. Cheefemy in 1793> hve
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
Lbpdoq l!\ft year with 28- ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is welj knqwn to
be a (launch and faft failing (hip, is well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to feain
a few lays at a very fittl« cxpence. For terms ot
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
ftreeti, to
RICHARD D. ARDEtf.
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tonsot (hot
13 Tons rolled sheet lead
20 Bales English Duck, afTorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
The Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wedncfday next, will take freight for
Lofldoa.
may 19 §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks oi nails afTorted
20 bales of fail eanvafu, from No. 1 to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz- each
London particular ) Wines
India market )
Teneriffedo. in hogfheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c. I
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cabjesand 10 coils of cordage ,
Writing Hates, ink (lands and prefies
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I hale Teaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
f *£7"2~V TUE BRIG
AMAZON,;
, ] F° r Sale, or Charter.
Nickltn C 3" Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
JUST ARRIVED,
fn the brigGayofOjCapt.Binghan^frftmSt.Martios
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A fevy groce Porter Bottles, new
Apd twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfivortb & Co.
No. 22, Little vVater ftraet, South,
april 20. §
FOR SALE.
% drb™w»}Havannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at WilUngsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Ailive, Will
iim Williams, matter.
said Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi-
Apply to
Jehu Hotting/worth & Co.
ijaarch 30. §
By John Fenno, N°* il9 Cheftiut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE i, 1798.
< Tea Warehouse,
OPFOSf T E THE POST-OFFICE. „
TKE Subscriber returns her finccre thanks far
the generous encouragement (he has experien- L
ced since her commencement in bufinefs,begs leave -L
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he has eh
received a frelh supply of all kinds of Tea from the ftc
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her ov
condant enpeavour to merit their future support.
She is in daily expe&ation of receiving a large sup
ply of geod Coffee.
SARAH EATON.
may 30 tu&fßt
*OR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Chests of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, Young Hyson and Boliea, just ar
rived in the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; several com
plete fefs of elegant China ; 1000 pieces of Nankeen
of superior color and quality; a few pieces of eom
mon Madrafc Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In-
I dia Silks, consisting of Luteflriogs, Sarfnets, Peifiani,
&c. &c. of different colors.
a l so, for sal e—Entitled, to the drawback,
5000 boxes of Pate GraiTe Cheese ~~
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the ship Juno and Joseph from Amsterdam.
T. B. Freer.an,
No. 39 South Froot-ftreet, or at his counting
house, No. 40, South Waier-ftreet.
mavgo. mf6t
NOW LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from .
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber, r
88 casks CLARET
72 do. do. of a superior quality
2 trunks gteen PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd, •
No. 11, Walnut-street.
WHO HAS ON HAND, *
White Wine in half Calks \
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in j
l oxes and baskets I F
Lunelle 1 I Entitled to
Sauterne / ; Drawback, c
Irish Market V WINES in Cases I r
Macarty and 1 J 3
Medoc J J
Rota Wine in hhds. C
Pimento in bags. g
may 29'. t
TO B v SO J I), LE T,
Or exchanged £or property in the city of c
Philadelphia. a
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the c
county of Montgomery. The house is in good (
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ;
there are a number of good fruit trees therein, t
the fituahon is higV healthy and one of the a
best for aqy of business in the town* pof
feflion will be given iftlmediately—for terms ap- c
ply to William Niebcls t ]
No, 117/ Race Jlreet.
may 29 ______ *$ 1
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev. '
Edward Oiddy, of Lhredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, June 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072. ,
8021. 1?. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30. 1797. No. 15196. !
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will-,
iam Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor- ,
folk, in England, dated July 10, No. (
10199. ,
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of. Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour (Ireet,
Widow, dated oAober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United Stat *s,—and allper
fon9 concerned aredefired to tak l, notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
• Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof UviitedStates in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five shares each, dated January 1, 1797*
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of whicfc,applicationis meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States,—
and all perl'ons concerned therein arc desired to
take notice*
JN. FAUGH AN.
Philadelphia, may 4. §6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN tfee North American Land Company, Handing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlesex, England—viz. No. 2151, repreferting
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 2150 —13066 to
e 13075. ten Glares—No. 2149—13056 to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —1150910 11518, ten ihares
—No. 2147—11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
(hip William Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft; for the re.
newal of which, appiicajion will be made to the
Board of the said company,
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 *d6\y
Bafkenridge—for sale
TT con lifts of 920 acres, almost all of which i 6
1 a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
s Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
£aftby the river PaTaick.
Ther«* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
, is a vary convenient one, andja small expence would
'put it in complete repair. 4
The orchard conufls of 1500 fin«bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsolfaid
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tress, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incafh, on delivery of the deeds. Plcafc to en-'
!" quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut -treet.
February 2. eodtf
TO BE SOLD,
By John Nixon Sj? Co.
A few hhds of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM. which will be landed at Will and Fran
cis* wha.if rext Monday, the 2lft instant.
may i 6« dsteotf
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia, May rc, 17Q8.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION, £
AT the Cnftom-Heufe, oq Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Cuilom-Houfe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
fXH) eight half faggots of fieel
(TD) 20a one bale girthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
W & P
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one frnall box medicine !'
AB 203' one matted cafe Dutch hooks j.
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
rrii 1 61 3 three bales girthweb c<
- U J t ]
VHJ 200 one ditto ditto
NJ 200 one ditto ditto
No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
£LS]] one small box locks dt 15 J
Will be fold for Cafti, K
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY w
the eleventh day of June next, at the M«r- 0
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri- 3
vate sale, P
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS Or F
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia, v
and the counties of<Bath and Randolph in the v
state of Virginia, * v
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common j of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell,&FerdinandO'Neal. 1
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of *
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© aire* in Bath county, on both fides of 1
Green Briar River, adjoining lands or Jac*bWar- c
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and [ohnDilley, including
3000 acres*of prior furvcys. 1
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of J
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag- <
gon road leading from the warm springs to Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on But
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas V/ilfon, i
and including 4588 acres prior Surveys. 1
30000 acres in feath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of Said river, and 1
ot Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joleph \
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys. ,
The Georgia lands will be fold in trads of one ,
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&l above described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; pr.opofals of purchase may be made
to either of the Subfyribers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 4T, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARSER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. dts
By virtue of a decree of the honorable the high court
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fell
at Public Sale, ou the pre,mifes, oiv Monday, the
®s'h of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
THAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad part of No. 54, late,the property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, situated on
Thames-ftieet, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings and impiovements thereon. There are
ere&ed on this valuable property, ftveral large and
commodious bri k Warehouses, rapable of contain
ing from 15 to 20,c00 barrels of flour, with a frame
, (bed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in perfe6i fafety
from the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harboi, an
f cxterifiveand well conftrw&ed wharf,bounding on the
Waterloo feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing ships of any burthen at the lOwest tides. From
the many advantages this property, is known to poflefs,
it is esteemed equal if r.et superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, be a de
" Suable obiett to those inclined to purchase so valuable
' an estate. It is unneceflary to fay more on this sub
• jc£t, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises to the
} day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
> are, that the purchaser ftiall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to thetiuftee fcrr the payment of!
one half the purchase "money with interelf, within
three months, and the residue with interetl, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
\ may aB. - dt2sthje.
: ADVERTISEMENT.
; "VTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
0 XN of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
, at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
s rhe firft Friday in June next, pare of a tra& of
0 Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester coua
e ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate of Joshua
I, Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
e half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security for the fatpe, 011 in
terest, £rom the day of sale.—All creditors of the
said Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
produce fheir claims, with the vouchers thereof,
[ g to the Chancellor, within fix month® from the 22d
e day of December lad, that being the day o£ the
j firft sale.
c WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trnftce.
may 14. Saw
? CONTRACTS.
e
d r T , HE Managers of the alms house and houie
JL of employment, in this city, will receive
f_ proposals in writing, to be left at said house on
d or before Wednesday the 30th instant, from any ;
it person or persons, willing to contrail for fur
le nifhing Fresh Previsions, fay, Beef, Mutton and ;
Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
d one year: The contrail to commence on the firft
i- of June enfoing ; the meat to be frefh and mar
?s ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
°* hind alternately, or in fides or carcases, as re
quired.— Also, for Supplying milk for the use
of the Said poor. The milk to be new } sweet,
" and unadulterated, and the Supply to commence
on the 14th of June ensuing.
By order of the Board of Managers,
JOHN CUM MING'S, Steward.
mav 23 dtij
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
lC * TTAS Removed to No. 127 Chefnut-ftreet,
:1 JLI where Titles to Heal estates are examined
and Briefs thereof and Conveyances of every
kind, prepared. may 22
CONGRESS. a
O
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, d
in
Tuesday, May 15. *
DEBATE [
On the motion of Mr. J. Parker, for referring w
certain Refolutiorfs of Captain Magilien's a
Company, to a committee of the whole n
House. d
f Concluded from our last.) n
Mr. J.Parker had not the leaf! doubt
that the censure contained in these proceed- j (
ings was levelled as much against him as any n
branch of the government, as he did not be-
lieve the fab fcribers had latterly approved'of v
his condud, on account of his having voted j,
in favour of some establishments which they
condemn. He. was farther led to suppose r
this from the proceedings having been sent to j
him under a blank cover. Mr. P. again ur- j
ged the propriety of referring this paper.— ]
Much had been said about the indelicacy of j
expredion used in thisaddrefs; it was his o- j,
pinion that a memorial which he held in his
hand from Falmouth in MalTachufetts, which j,
was some days ago received without oppofiti- t
on, was equally objectionable in this refpeii. p
Mr. P. read an extratt from it, in which the v
addreflers fay, that " they behold with dtfap- c
probation and surprize the mefTage 6f the f
President, which fays, that he has taken off f
the restriCtion, which they think was' laid in j
wisdom by the late President, for the pre- ]
venting the arming of merchant vefi'els, and ]
which they think now more necessary than (
when it was atfirit laid."
Mr. Thatcher was opposed to a refer- J
ence of this address. He acknowledged ihe j
right which the people had to petition ; but ,
went into some lengthy observations to prove ,
that their representatives had not given up all
their rights by accepting a feat in Congress, 1
and that it was' not right for them to fit to be
infill ted, without (hewing a disapprobation
of the insult.
Mr. Brent said, it had been admitted by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sit
greaves) t]iat if the fubjett matter of the ad
dress before the House had been decently ex
pressed, no objection would have been made
to it on account of the opinions which it con
tained; other gentlemen, however, had tho't
it was aiibel on the government, and ought
not on that account to be admitted. -
Mr. B. went through the different parts of
the address, and said he saw no way in which
the opinions contained in it could have been
exprelfed in language less objectionable than
that in which they appeared.
But it was said by the gentleman from S.
Carolina (Mr. Rutledge) and by that
this address was a libel on gsvernment. He
saw nothing of the kind in it. Could not there
be persons high in authority, but such as
were in the administration of the Federal Go
vernment ? Neither the government nor the
administration are mentioned ; nor could any
one fay whether, by persons high in authori
ty they meant to refer to the Executive or to
members of the Legislature. It might even
allude to persons in the Judicial, or some o
ther department ot government. But admit
ting that these persons meant to (ay that any
branch of this government had endeavoured
to give a falfe colouring to the late difpateh
es, and by that means toinvolve us in war—
if this was their opinion, they have the fame
right to express it that others have to pass
their eulogiums on the conduct of the Presi
dent—it is a right which is guaranteed to
them by the Corfnitution. and of which they
cannot therefore be deprived.
But it had been said this address refle&ed
upon the conduit of our Commillioners—men
whom we are told may at this monlent have
become victims of their patriotism. Here,
gentlemen futtered their zeal to carry them
1 beyond the truth, as not a word can be found
in thisaddrefs which has the lealt reference to
our Commiflioners. What was said respeCt
ing the dispatches, had no connection with,
• the Envoys theinfelves. Mr- B. thought
the rule laid down by the gentleman from S.
[ Carolina was a proper one ; he believed the
House ought to receive all petitions, except
extremely indecent and improper, or none
: He trusted he had (hewn that independent of
the matter, there was nothing exceptionable
» in thisaddrefs, and he hoped, therefore, notur
\ ther objection would be made to its'reference.
Mr. Hartley was opposed to the refer
| ence of this petition. He thought it a novel
proceeding for a company of grenadiers to
meet at 400 miles distance, and the Captain
and Lieutenant (hould fend on an address re
probating the measures of government. He
was opposed to the reference of the address
: from the members of the Legislature of this
1 (late, when it was pre fen ted, becatife he did
1 desire to gi.ve countenance to persons who
• widled to shew their diflatisfaflion with the
" measures of our own government, and anat
-1 tachment to the French. Indeed fuck is the 1
• change of opinion which has taken place in
e this country 011 this fubjett, that one of the
5 members who signed that address has signed i
another from Bucks county approbatory of |
the measures of the Executive. It was fio
e thing uncommon to let petitions lie.upon the
table, and he hoped this address would have
the fame fate with that from the members of
e the Pennsylvania Legislature.
Mr. Dana was unwilling to take any part
in this, debate, and would not have done it,
but for what had fallen from the gentleman
- from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin.) He had
reprobated the opposition made to this refer
e ence as arising from an opposition to opinion,
e and adduced two instances to support his af
n fertion, the one of a'memorial from members
y of the Pennsylvania Legislature, the other
. of an address from Mafl'aclmietts. The firft,
d he recollected his colleague obje&ed to on
r the ground of the persons having addressed
l\ the House in their Legifjative character, but
.. no queflion was ever taken upon it. With
refpeCt to the address from Maflachufetts, on
.. hearing it read, he himfelf expressed an opf
'e nion that it was written in improper language,
and reque/led it might lie upon the tabl&till
c next day, but the question was immediately
taken upon it for a reference, and carried. He
afterwards examined the address, and found
that if he had heard it diftinClly he fliould not
have opposed the reference, though he dis
approved of its sentiments. But the gentle
man from Pennsylvania fays, Congress are
undertaking to force tliefe petitioners to give
t up an opinion. It was aftonifiling that men
i{ j who know the ufc of language fliould so dis
tort the meaning of words. When the IJoufe
fays it will not take thisaddrefs into confid«r-
[VoLUMQ XIII"
ation, that they will not examine a libel iijg
on themselves, nor be the vehicle of their own
calumny, was this using force ? This ad
dress, Mr. D. said, does not speak of the ge
neral tendency of measures, but charges men
high in authority with faithl'efsflefs, with put
ting falfe confirmations upon dispatches for
the purpose of involving the country in war
with France, find in order to produce an alli
ance with Great-Britain. Language has 110
meaning, if this be not the purport of this ad
drefsj and were the House to (it and deter
mine whether thele charges are true or fall'e ?
Where is the man who wants testimony on this
head ? Which of us, said he, wants teftiino
ny to prove himfelf a traitor, or otherwise ?
Yet this is insinuated to be a duty. Let thole
whe chufe it, deliberate on such matter, he
himfelf could not consent to it.
Mr. R. Williams wondered the gentle
man from Pennsylvania (Mr. SitgreavesJ
should have thought it neceflary to press a
discussion of this kind upon the House at this
late period of the feflion. As the memorial
from Malfachufetts, an extra£t bf whichthey
had heard read, had been referred, he could
fee no reason why this fhbuld not be referred.
All the difference he saw betwixt them was,
that this deals in general terms, and that from
Massachusetts expressly charges the President
with improper conduct. It is true this goes
on ft pass a libel upon the British govern
ment, whilst that from Massachusetts does
not. Why, then, are not both treated alike ?
Does the circumltance of one being from
Eastern, and the other fiom a Southern state,
ma*ke any difference? Gentlemen ought to
consider, especially those who talk so much
about the people being united, and rallying
round the standard of government, what this
led to. Did it tend to produce that unanimi
ty which all must wifti to fee? No, it tended
to widen the bleach, and to shew to people in
one part of the country that they were not to
be treated in the fame way with others. If
citizens were to be at liberty to address the
House in one way, they nVuft be equally at
liberty to address them in a different way; and
yet the objections to the present addrels mult
be to the sentiments which it contains; for he
was of opinion with the gentleman from Vir
ginia (Mr. Brent) that citizens could not use
language more proper to convey the fame feri
timents. This opposition went to lhew that
addreflTes might be expressed in as strong terms
as could be used, if on the right fide \ but if
not on that fide, the petitioners mult he very
cautious indeed in the choice ot their words.
Mr. W. could not help remarking upon
what was said on the subjeCt of Party. Party,
he said, in that house, where it
ought to be checked. The citizens of this
country are not so divided as gentlemen sup
pose. Here it is firft started, and he was per
suaded the people of this country look with
astonishment at the divisions which take place
here, and of what was said about their being
divided. —He did not fee how gentlemen could
apply what was said in the Memorial of per
sons high in office, to any particular members
of this house, or to any particular persons in
the Government. There was no way of doing
it but by conjecture. There may be men high
in office under the State Governments, which
are the persons alluded to. At any rate, it
was wrong, where more than one conftruftion
could be put upon a paper ot this kind, to
put that upon it which would operate molt
unfavourably upon the fubferibers.
Mr. W. concluded with faying he did not
approve of all the fentimentscontained m the
address ; but as he had before said he did not
know how the fame sentiments could have
been exprefled better. His feelings had been
frequently hurt by sentiments sent to this
house in,addrefles, but as lie believed to at
tempt to remedy the evil, would introduce a
greater, he was content to let the business
Hand as it does. He hoped the address would
be referred.
Mr. Brooks said, that notwithstanding a
great deal of time had been expended on this
fwbjeft, he mult beg to add a- few words.
Gentlemen in favour of this motion seemed
not to distinguish properly betwixt the ex
preflions in this addreis and others. A paral
lel had been drawn betwixt this address and
one from Massachusetts—Mr. B. shewed
wherein they essentially differed.
Much had been said about a loss of time.
This he said was a dale argument. If this ad
• dress was fuffered to be referred, nothing
could be so grofsand scandalous, but it might
be received. He did not expert, above alt
other members, that the gentleman from S.
1 Carolina (Mr. Harper) would have complain*
' ed of a waste of time : that gentleman, here
tofore so sensibly alive to character, had to
day astonished him.
i Mr. B. ridiculed the idea that by persons
> high in office, eeuld be meant any persons in
1 the State Governments or ii\ the Judiciary.
> It was written so plain, he said, " that he
: who runs may read." It was clear that these
■ addreflers mean to cast a censure upon the
: Executive, our Conjmiflioners, and both
i lioyfes of the Legislature, in refpeii to the
: dispatches alluded to.
I Mr. Gallatin proceeded to notice the
I obje<stions which had been made to a reference
- oftljisaddrefs. His colleague (Mr. Sitgreaves)
J said it.was misrepresentation to fay that gen
: tlemen were opposed to the reference of this
f address Qn the ground of its advocating opi
nions in opposition to those which they enter
t; tained, as it was merely on account of the in
, decency ot its language ; and in order to thew
i the indecency of language of which he spoke,
i he laid his arguments against the fubjett mat
- ter of the address. -Another gentleman ob
> jeded against it because it asks for nothing ;
- he believed it asked for much the fame as all
s the addretfes which were daily received con
r taining pledges oflives, fortunes, See. iivfup
, port of Government. The gentleman from
~\ Connecticut objected to a reference, because
1 it was seditious, slanderous, and calculated to
t disturb the Government. He did not kno.y
n what was the precise meaning of these words;
i and he believed not two gentlemen on this
- floor could agree as to their application to any
, special cafe. A gentleman from S. Carolina
1 (Mr. Rutledge) objects to the reference, be
y cause the address casts blame upon our Com
e miffioners, and may involve them in difficul
d ty. He did not believe there was any thing in
»t the proceedings in question which could be
- fuppoled to have relation to our Commiflion
- ers. No idea of the dispatches having been
e fabricated was to be found in that address.
e The only idea on on this fubjeft was a doubt
n whether the conversations of X, Y &Z, werq
- authorised by the French Government.; btff
e not a word was said on the authenticity of the
- dispatches, or of tjie conduct of our ComijHffioners. On thfc contraryj they fay they draw
their corcltifions. from the face of me dis
patches thenifelves. Other gentleinerf lay
their stress of dbjection agiiuft, the address,
because it arraigns the motives of Govern
ment. All agreed rhat it ought not to re
ferred, biit gentlemen gave so many, so dif
ferent, lo contradictory reasons of their opini
on, that it was impoflible for themselves to
define what kind of petitions they would per
mit, and which they would object it.
But of all the reasons which he had heard
afllgned against the reference, one given by
the gentleman from MafTachufetts (Mr. Otis)
was. the molt singular. It was thrft if this Ad
dress was referred it might confirm an idea that
we are of opinion that great part of the con-
Verfations held with our Commilfioners by
X, Y & Z, were not authorized by the French
Government. And if this should be the cafe,
what does rhat gentleman suppose will be the
result f The great danger to be apprehended
from this is, rhat the Executive Directory
will the conduct of its Agents. As
tohimfelf he (hould not consider such a dis
avowal as a misfortune. He wiihed they might
d'.fmifs their Vliniftersas corrupt, and prove
themfclves not to be To. It was very immate-,
rial to this country whether the Directory
were corrupt or not, whetherthey were impli
ed in X & Y's business or not: but it is of
great consequence to preserve peace,
therefore very important rhat they fhoulddif
avow all those proceedings. He hardiy could
have believer! that any gentleman should
have thought ; t a misfortune to this country,
that the French Government should fay they
do not want money from us, but that they are
ready to treat upon reaionabie terms, unless
indeed jhey conceded an accommodation
with France to bean unfavourable event. But
he believed nothing that Congress could do
now could produce any such effect, as
they could learn what was now done, they
would be informed of the publication of the
dispatches. He hoped the proceeding of these
' Agents would be disavowed. If he were to
express an opinion upon the subject, he
would fay, that he did nor believe the propo
sition respeCting a k loan of money would be
disavowed ; but he believed the Directory j
would disavow all rhar relared to (foments.
But if any means which Congress could take
would lead them to disavow the whole ; if to
refer this petition could contribute to pro
duce that effect, it would with him, and he
trusted with the house, bean additional realbn
to vote in favor of the reference.
• Mr. Rujledgf. wished to add a few words
with respeCt to the document from theflate of
Mallitchufetts which had been introduced by
the gentleman from N. Carolina, as equally
indfcent with the proceedings whose reference
was now objected against. When the gentle
man read 11, he saw nothing in it analogous
to the present cafe. He therefore supposed the
gentleman had omitted the part which was in
point, and he had himfelf recourse to the pa
per. This address, it is true, calls in question
the propriety of an order erf the Executive ;
but there was no impeachment of his integ
rity, and it could not be said that it was in
decent or improper to disapprove of any aft
of the Executive. There v\ as nothing, there
fore, to juftify the comparison, since the Mas
sachusetts address merely fays, that the ad
drellers looked upon the order to reftritt the
arming of Merchants vellels as a wife measure
and the repeal of that order as unWife. -But
tiie proceedings now before the house charge
the Government with duplicity ; with having
given a falfe colouring to the late dispatches
of our Envoys. And *hy are they said rohave
done this ? In order to widen the breach be
tween this Government and the French Re
public. 1 hey fay that persons high in autho
rity have done this. But the gentleman from j
N. Carolina fays they have named no person. j
But had,men a r ght to fend abroad such abuse
as this, where every o;ie mult know who is
meant as well as .f the charge was direct.?
Certainly they had not.
Mr. R. said, if it ceuld be fhew'n that any
thing equally .ndecent with this was ever re
ceived by the house, he would not object to
the referring of this paper; but until this
was done, he ninfi pertift in objecting to re
ceive what appeared to him to be. drawn up
with a Ifudied contempt for Government.
A loud call for the queltion.
Mr. Allen said, he would just state before
the question was taken, that the reason which
led him to object ro a reference of the Memo
rial of the members of the Legislature of
Pennsylvania, on a former occafxon, was, be
cause it purported to come fr m members of a
Legislature, though it was ligned by them af
ter the fefTion was broke up.
Mr. Gallatin said, the gentleman was
wholly mistaken, for the Memorial was signed b
uhilft the house was in feflion.
The question for referring the proqeedings
was then taken by Yeas and Nays as follows ?
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baldwin, Meflfrs. Havens,
Bard, Heifter,
4 Benton, Holmes,
Blount, Jones,
Brent f Locke,
Bryan, Lyon,
Burgess, Macon,
T.Claiborne, M'Clenachan,
W.C.Claiborne M'Dowell,
Clopton, Milledge,
Davis, New,
Dawfon, J. Parker,
Dent, Skinner,
Elmendorf, W. Smith,
Fif.dley, Sprigg,
Fowler, Stanford,
Gallatin, Sumter,
Gillefpir, A. Trigg,
Gregg, J. Trigg,
Grove, V. Cortlandt,
Hanna, Varnum,
Harper, Venable,
Harrifon, R. Williams
N A Y S. 4 6
Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Flofmer,
Baer, Imlay,
Bartletf, Lyman,
Bayard, Machir,
Brooks, M a "hews,
Bullock, Morgan,
C'hamplin, Morris,
Chapman, Otis,
Coit, Reed,
Craik, Rutledge,
Dana, Schureman,
Dennis, Sewall,
Edmond, Shepard,
Evans, » Sinnickfon,
A. Foster, Sitgreaves,
D. Foster, N. Smith,
]. Freeman, Thatcher,
Glen, Tillinghafl,
Goodrich, VanAlen,
Grifwold, Wadlvvorth,
Hartley, J. Williams,
Hindman, 43.
Mr. Harrison reported k bill for regu
lating the compensation of Marlhals, Attor
neys, Jurors and WitnelFes, which was twice
read, and committed'for Friday.
Mr. Harper reported a bill laying a Di
re£l Tax on the United States, which was
twice read, and committed for monday.
v Mr. $ e w a L L reported a bill fopplementa
ry to, and to amend the act eltablifhing an
y uniform rale of Naturalization,_ and to repeal
, the adt heretofore paired, which was twice
read, and committed tor Monday.
, Adjourned.
; Xpe<ga3ette.
i PHILADELPHIA,
) FRIDAY EVENING, Jone i.
- Yesterday, at 12 o'clock, Anthony Walton
1 White, Esq. Adjutant-General of the
Militia of New-Jersey, accompanied by
i-, Major-Generals Frelinghuyfen & Bloom
■, field, and politely attended by the Mem
e bersof Congress from that State, waited
d upon the President of the United States,
y and, ijp behalf of the Officers of the New
s Jersey Militia, prtfented the following
\ ADDRESS:
e Totmi PRESIDENT OF TUS UNITED STATE.®.
Sir,
y THE Commander in f'hief, the General
. Office™, the General S'affand Pieid-Offi
f cers of the Militia of flie State of New-
Jffey, feel, in common witS their numerous
■ fellow-citizens who have addrefled yon in
i thi' present critical fituatroq of our nation,
> and mod cordially join them in exprtffing
y to you their high approbation-os your eon
; dust in the management of its foreign con
s ceins, and their indignation for the insult
offered t i the honor and independence of
( the American people.
, We come not, Sir, to dilate Whether
, peace can be preferred with the fafety of
; our national digni y, or whether an appeal
: is to be made to arrrs, are questions en
' trulied to those in whose patriotism we eon
fide, and according to their decision we
(hdll always be p epared to aft. B\it, Sir,
at this eventful period, wt deem it our duty,
and !eel it a pleasure, refpefl'ully to ap
proach oiir Commander in , Chief, and to
make him a folemh proffer of our lives and
fortunes in the fcpvice of our country.
It is not, Sir, for soldiers to boait; but
we know the troops whom wc have the
honor to commaßd ; we have been eye-wit
nefles to their ardent zeal in the cause of
freedom ; we have been their companions
in many toils and many fufferings ; and if
our beloved country calls, we (hall again
call the eye of confidence along their em
battled ranks.
L.et our enemies flatter themfclves that
we are a divided people. In New-Jersey,
Sir, with the exception of a few degraded
and a few deluded chara&ers, to whose per
for.s and to whose ftrviccs the invading foe
(hall be welcome the moment of their arrival,
and whom we engage to convey in fafety to ,
their lines—in New-Jerfjy, Sir, there is
but ONE yOICE, and that is the voice of I
confidence in the federal government: the
voicd of pcrfeft fatisfaflion with your admt- '
nidration of it ; and the voice of flrmnefs '
and determination ro support the laws and
<tonft<tution, the honor and dignity of th®
United States ; and, Sir, for the defence
of thrfe, we do this day, in the presence of
the God of armies, and in firm reliance on his .
proteSion,folemnly pledge to you our lives, our !
fortunes, and our sacred honour.
R chard Howell, Commander in Chief.
major Generals.
Elias Tayfon, F FrclinghuyFen. 2
Wm. Holmes, Joleph Bioomtidd. 1
general staff. t
Anthony W U hite, d]ut3n General. i
D. Woodruff, Sec'ry to v ommander in Chief. f
B g£ s » Jwcige Advocate. t
Aaron Ogden, ")
J ""e,, ,
Mark Thompson, f
/ ar<>n Dunham, Aids to Commander in Chief.
Ba amen Loyd, J '
John Lacey, J a
Wm Wikeff, J a
James F. Armstrong, ) Chaplains to Commander c
Tonn Croea. { in Chief. f
John Nfilfon, Pavmafter Grneral. f
James Quarter-ma'ter General. t
Thomas ComnvfTiry General.
N. Bellvillc, Physician Genera).
Moses Scott, Mirgeon General.
Charles Smith, Surgeon to (. avalry. c
BRICADIER GENERALS. Haac Kip, 8
John N* Cumming, Jon. Vanbuereti,
Kichafd D-iy, Samuel Reading, d
John Doughty, " Hiram Smith; f
Jwmes Giles, E Vangelden, c
tlifha Lawrence, Jame* Conover, t
J >na F Morris, James Co*,
Clarkfon tdgar, Samuel P. Forman,
Jona. Hilt, Gared Stillwell,
Joseph B ea'ly, John Siillwell, (
Franklin Davenport, Thomas Little, "
J'.hn Heard. James Craig, a
l 'ivr. colonels. A. V. Middles worth, d
James Heddin, Wm. Todd, e
Wm Crane, Clement Wood, t
Jedediah Swan, J°na Hardenburgb, a
Chi lion Ford, Wm. M'Kiflack,
Jacob Arnold, Jona Ft elinghuyfen,
Wm W. Bell, Gerftjam Dunn,..
Thomas Blanch, Samuel Morford, "
Nehemiah Wade, John Baird, n
Piudden Ailing, J. Veghter, t(
Samuel Quay, Andrew Lyle, ft
Weffel 1. Stout} Phinehas Carman. D
Barres Smock, Joseph Marsh, h
James Green, Andrew M'Dowell, b
EFiaa Conover, C. Shipmons,
P I. Stryker, Thomas Paul,
Henry Vandevecr, Wm. Kolberdieu,
James Henry, ' John Gaftill,
E. Beatty, John M'Peck, "
Robert Rosa, Richard Edfall,
Wm. M'Cullough, Elias Ogden, c
Chs. Pemberton, Solomon Rroderick, ri
David Bishop, John Stevens, 0
David Schamp, John Stevenson, t(
Jona. Vancleve, Charles Reading,
Jona. Black, J or> * Smith,
P. Hunt, Jona. Porter,
Thomas Hefton, Wm. Dumont, xv
Joshua L. Howell, Samuel Becks,
Daniel Berezeit, Robert Lucas,
Dayton Newcomb, Joseph M'llvaine, tl
Aula M'Calta, Wm. Pearson, ol
Eli Elmer, John Lawrence, p
Joshua Sihnn, Shmual I. Keer, C(
I. Bakeman, Wm. Irick,
Andrew Sinnickfon. John Forman,
major commandants, Albermarle Collins, C(
PiterKcenon, Joel Gibbs, al
Ralph P. Lott, Thomas Wilkins, c ' <
majors* Samuel Flanningam, er
E. L Whitlock, MarmadukeStokes, 01
Nathaniel Beach, John!ice, m
Matthias WiiJiamfon,jr. James Williams, gc
Wm Dayton, Enoch I.eeds,
Wm. Shute, Ephraim Buck, ar
DavidClaik, Almtra'n Brooks,
Nathan Ford, Morris Beafley,
Cornelius Hoagland, , Jacob Hufty, ce
Bcojamin Jackson, Robert G. Johnson, tu
John Budd, Kichard Fisher, •
Colf?x, Win. Gordon Formap. fei
Abraham Post, J.H, lmjay, ce
a " To which the President returned the fol
lowing Answer:
ce To the Commander in Chief, the General Off
cers, the General Staff and Field-Officers of
the State of Neiu-Jerfey.
S Oedtlemen,
AMONG all the numerous addresses
_ which have been presented to me, in the
- present critical situation of our nation, there
has been none which has done m<! more
honor, none animated with a more glowing
= love of our country, or expreflive of fenti
an ments more determined and magnanimous,
lie Ihe lubrniilion you avow to tht civil au
jy thority, an indispensable principle in the
n- character >i warriors in a free government,
n- at the fame moment when you make a
solemn proffer of your Lives and Fortunes
'3, in the service of your country, is highly
v- honorable to your difpofitiens as Citizens
and Soldiers, and proves you perfe&ly qua
lified for the duties of both charaQers.
Officers and Soldiers of New-Je fey have
as little occasion as they have disposition to
al boad. Their country has long boaded of
n- their ardent zeal in the cause of freedom,
'■ ?nd their invincible intrepidity in the day of
is battle.
n Your voice of confidence andfatisfaflion,
> of firmnefs and determination to fupps.t
g the laws and constitution of the United
i- States, has a charm in it irrefidable to the
I- feelings of every American besom ; but,
!t when in the prtfence of the God of armies,
f and in firm reliance on his protection, you
solemnly pledge your lives and fortunes and
r your sacred honor, you have recorded words
f which ojight to be indelibly imprinted in
' p the memory of tjvery American youth
- With these sentiments in the hearts, and this
- language in the mouths of Americans in
e general, the greated nation may menace at
, its pleasure, and the degraded and deluded
, charafters may tremble left they fliould be
- condemned to the fevered punilhment an
J American can fuffer—that of being convey
-1 ed in fafety within the lines of an invading
enemy.
JOHN ADAMS.
■ Phiegdelphia, May 31/?, 1797.
Somerfct county. Maryland Ztb May, '9B.
;In pursuance %f public notice a large number of 1 .
f citixens affembied in the Court house in Prineefs j J
Anne, the honorable John Dene was called to ' i
the chair, and Ezekiel Haynie appointed Secre
tary. ' ,
After an address from the chair, it was on
motion onanimosfly resolved, ]
1 hit the honorable John Done, Littleton
' Dennis and major general Winder, col. John ' '
Gale, major Samuel Wilson, George Robertfos
efqrj. and Ezekiel Haynie, be a committee to '
prepare resolutions expreflive of our approbation *
of thecondutf of the government of the Unit j
ed States and our determination to support fucji
measures as may be necessary f r the intcrefl and i
fafety of the toyntry and tVat the committee ;
make report to a meeting to he held in this place *
on Wednefday'the 16th inflant; «ill which time £
this meeting adjourns. 1
May 16 tb. <
A large number of the mojl refpeflable citizens of t
the courityyonvened and the committee having i
reported the following resolutions, they Were 1 1
after being twice read manimoufly adopted. 1 ,
This meeting taking into confidcration that'
it is equally the duty and inters!! pf those who |
have the happiness to live under a government | f
so free and equal as that of the United States, to ; ]
be ready on ail occasions to aid and fuppnrt it ' a
and deeply fenfcble of the critical and embarralT- ; .
ing lituition to which our country is reduced by j ®
the lawless aggrefiiona in the firft instance and ' e
in the fecondV by the insulting and obstinate re- ' £
fufal of the French guvernment to liflen to over- *
tqres for an amicable accomodation of the dif
puie fublifting between the two nations, under b
the falfe and degrading opinion that the people J
of this country are divided from and will not j-,
support the government of their own choice ;
anxious to refute this charge, and as far as we D
are able vindicate the rig Jits and honor of our
country, we have thought it our duty to come
forward andexprefs our fentitaents in the most
solemn and public manner and do therefore,
unanimously resolve,
ift. That in affirming a neutral position at the
commencement of the war in Europe our gov
ernment evinced the founded political discretion
and consulted the bwft interests of the country:
And as the measure i* itfelf was wife and pru
dent, so the means which have been employed n
for continuing to us its benefits have been judi P
cious, just, and impartial, so much so that in all c
the new Sc trying conjunflures which have been v
produced by the clalhing intereds, intrigues and f]
lawless dispositions of the belligerent nations
(and which were of a nature to create infinite °
difficulty and perplexity Jit is a fubjeil of just a
and grateful exultation that we are not able to
discern any trait, in thefyltem that has regulat- a
ed our foreign relations, that can justly be made
the fubjedl of censure at home or complaint d
abroad. ] (
2d. That the President of the United States 1
in his inftruiftions to our Envoys to France man
ifefted in the llrongeft and moll unequivocal
manner, his own and his country's attachment
to peace, and the sincerity of their wilh to re- t(
(lore harmony and a liberal intercourse with that
nation and that while we regret the failure of h
his efforts and thble of the amiable and eftima
b e charaHers who have sustained their million .
with fe much propriety and dignity, and depre
cate the consequences that may lefult, w» are
consoled for the humiliation which our country
ha'i fullered by the refleilion, that it will add to
the unanimity which already pi evails among Our ui
citizens, andbring into aiSive ex'eition thatssp- t ]
rit and energy which are neccfiary to the defence
of ouf rights and fovercignty, and which h*ve
too long been repressed.
3d. That entertaining the fullefl confidence al
in the talents, firmnrfs, fidelity and patriotism,
which have so long and so highly dillinguilhed p;
the chief magistrate of the union, the most p«r.
leiSl reliance on the wisdom and patriotilrn of
the Senate and of the House of Reprefei tatives
of the United States, and grateful for the diftin
guilhed advantages and happiness we enjoy in a "
country, and under civil inftitutiens the best in fi l
the world we cheerfully pledge ourselves to fe- T
cond and support, with nur utmost efforts, and m
at the hazard (if necelfary) of our lives and te
dearest intere'ls, all such measures as our gov-
ernment lhall adopt for the interest and fafety of
our country the ailertion »f our rights, and the P*
maintenance of onr national dignity and felf
government. th
4th. That our silence heretofore on the great he
and interefling questions which have at different ha
periods occupied the public mind, his not pro- f a
ceeded from an indifference to the fate and for
tunes of our country but has either been the ef
fedl of doubts as to the propriety of any inter- T "
ference on the part of the conilituent body (ex-
cept sq a conllitutioaal way) is being liable to Ti
>1- grow into a familiar praflice and be abused, or
he public avowal of our sentiments was deen)-
tj ;d fuperfluous j those of the people of this 'dif
riiU being at all times so truly reprefenteil in
°J Congrel^.
And lastly, it is refolved, that
copies of the proceedings and resolves of this
es metting be forwarded to the honorable John
1f Dennis with a request that they be laid before
re the President, the Senate and House of Repre
lentatives of the United States, and that the
committee heretofore appointed carry thisrefolve
0 into eflFe£t.
1 Signed on behalf of the meeting,
8 - John Done", chairman.
u- E. Hayn 11, fecretar.y.
te
t To the citizens of Somerjet county in the State of
Maryland.
GENTLEMEN,
fs Your resolutions of the Bth and l6thof May
ly have been presented to me by your reprefenta
ls tive in Congress Mr. Dennis,
j. Sentiments more patriotic, and resolutions
more ample, judicious and decisive have not ap
peared from any part'of the union, and as they
appear to have been adopted, and declared wilh
° unanimity, at a very large and refpeilable me t
>f ing they > ught to have great weight with the
1, public. In a very particular manner they de
is serve from me my best thanks.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May Jc/A, 1798.
j ANSWER
Of the President of the United States to the <
e Address signed James Kent, Chairman, 1
' published in yesterday's Gazette.
' To tht ci izens of Queen Anne's County, ;
' in the State of Maryland.
GENTLEMEN,
s Your address to the President, Senate,
1 and House of Representatives of the United '
States, has been piefented to me by one of
your Senators, Mr. Lloyd, and one of your
1 representatives, Mr. Hindman.
' I thank you gentlemen, for the public de
| claration of your opinion of the inftruflions |
of the Executive authority of government j
1 to our Envoys.
Threats ihoAld not have been employed '
> by Frenchmen, to move Americans, whom '
they ought to have held in more esteem and
respect.
Whenever we shall be compelled to un-
Iheath the sword, in defence of our rights, '
r the people of America who have neither in- ;
r : jured nor offended nations, or men, though j
1 greatly injured and offended themselves, may j
. with confidence appeal to the God of na
tions for the just ice of their cause.
1 I cannot with you consider war as the '
heavicft of human calamities; national cor- !
j ruptton and national incapacity for waV, ari-
I sing from effeminacy, luxury, avarice, vice,
or frivolity, are much more to be deplored, '
as one half of Europe at lead, demonstrates
at this hour.
Your heroic declaration in concord, with 1
so many others, that if war cannot be avert
ed, by measures confident with national hon
or, you are ready, at the expence of your '
lievs and fortunes to defend those rights,
which your fathers and yourselves contribu- '
ted to cdablifh, is a gl rious proof, that !
Americans, are not depraved or degraded, 1
, but are dill worthy of thecharafter of the \
i firft of men.
) I cannot profefs my attachmeut to the'
prirciples of the French Revolution, until C
1 I know what they have been,and what they r
are. An anxiety for the eftablilhment of a c
government in France, on the basis of the c
: equal rights of mankind, as far as such a
; govtrnment is pratticable, I feel in common
with you.
That country however which gave us 1
birth, and in which we live, and hope to x
die, is entitled to our anxiety, exertions and v
facrifices in preference to any other in the u- 1
niverfe. JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 24, 1798.
By this day's Mail. j|
NEW-YORK, May 31.
POSTSCRIPT. tl
At half pad two o'clock yeftcrday after- w
noon, the British mail was received at the p
ped-office, and the delivering of letters
commenced a little after three. This mail b
was brought over by his majesty's cutter o
flpop Conltitution, captain Slater, of ten ft
guns— she left Falmouth the 19th April, b
and touched at Halifax.
The March packet, from her not hating it
arrived, is fuppoftd to be lod or taken. fc
The William Penn, Jofiah, from Phila- t!
delphia to London, was taken in la l . 48, m
long. 20. by a French privateer j retaken P
by the Cleopatra frigate, and arrived at th
Portsmouth. The privateer had taken the B
Nelly and Kitty, Church, from Baltimore th
to London.
The (hips Independence and Otfego,
had arrived fafe at London from this port ce
The (hip Fair American, of this port, cl
bound from New-York to Hamburgh, is ci
taken into Plymouth by the L'lmpeteux,
of 78 guns, capt. W. Paine, and detained, an
The lad accounts from Ireland date that th
unk rtunate country to be in a very unset- th
tied date. We (hall give some lengthy ex ti<
tradls on this ftibjett in a future paper. as
Three per cent consols, April 16, were L
at 4&-J- a 49. na
Voluntary contributions continued with no
patriotic spirit. [Daily Gaz.] fie
M
LONDON, April to. an
The state of the eleftions in France is qu
the mod important feature in its internal
situation which the lad papers exhibit. th
The Direftory for some time pad have th
made the ele&ions a principal objedl of at- to
tention, and have spared no pains to lead wi
the public opinion in such a choice of re- of
prefentatives as might secure them from Pc
the oppofttion they had to encounter from
the new third lad year. It does not appear, th'
however, that all the proclamations they wl
have issued, have been of much avail. As
far as th«y have proceeded, the eleflions, in E;
many places, have been tempeduous and di- ob
vided. In many of the primary afiemblies pe>
the most violent contests have taken place.
The charafer of the ele&orial assemblies, dil
<3, or where it has been yet ascertained, so far
ieen)- f ro m anfwerifg the hopes of the directory,
dif- is the fnbjeft of undifguiled disapprobation
e '' and anxiety.
t j, at In consequence of these appearances of
f this opposition, the direftory have publilhed a
John new proclamation, in which they remind
icfore the public that the legislative body has the
epre- power of judging the operations of the elec
' j'" torial afTemblies ; and that, as on the 18th
: o.ve p ru (j orj t |, e traitors who disgraced the
national representation were expelled from
an, its bosom ; the traitors who are defiroas to|
C. enter it will likewise be
evident from this warning, that the dire&o
\tttf r y are determined to prevent the necessity
of another 18th Fruftidor, by admitting in
to the councils, none but those on whom
enta- they can depend*
We have the fatisfa&ion to announce,
(ions that advice was yesterday received at the
' a P" i admirality, that the Cambria frigate, of 44
with ' S uns > one °F Sir Edward Pellew's squadron,
[)e t _ I and commanded by the honorable captain
Legge, had taken two French privateers,
de- one of 20, the other of 14 guns, and re
captured an Ameriean veflel bound to Phi
's. ladelphia.
April 11.
The gigantic plan of aggrandizement
which the French have formed in the East-
I ern part of Europe, and in Asia, which we
'; long ago announced to our readers, begins
' to develope itfelf; a scheme of more extent, I
'' j both in point of territorial and commercial '
advantage, was never formed either in the
! antient or modern world ; and we fear it is
ited ' aS P ra ® ,ca b'e as '' ls magnificent. It will
_ be found that it forms one of the secret ar
'our tides in their treaty with Austria, and that
the Sublime Porte, who they have both
terrified and cajoled, will be finally the
; s i victim of their inordinate ambition.
£nt | Their project is clearly to get poffefiion
j of the Gr« k Islands, which may serve them
j i as a nursery forfeamen, at least for the na
-1 viVation of the Mediterranean and Levant,
10m . 0 .
to receive permiihon to attempt again the
ancient plan of openi g a canal into the
un Red sea, from which they are not to be de
its terred by the failure of every firmer eMer
. ' , prize of the kind. The improved date of
, : engineering gives them hopes that th'ey will
° j conquer every obflacle that nature has op
| posed to this design, and the grandeur of
the objeA will be flattering to the charafter
of the people. If they succeed they will
, or _ open to themselves a navigation to the tiift,
arl -_ by a course so much (horter than the pre
sent, and will have such a demand for su
ed' ar ln E eyP 1 ' on coasts of all the
te S ' s eas °f which they will have the monopoly,
that their commerce must receive an enor
j ntous addition.
, rt _ The lad accounts from France fe*m to
on- % nif y t ' le armament from Toulon is
3(]r deflined to this expedition. A body of
its 000 troops are embarked on board of
)u- tran 'f )orts > all< l which are to blunder the
iat 5 0nT °y on 'r 4 or 5 fliips of the line : it
is not likely that such a force can be order
e(l round to alElt in the expedition against
Portugal, or to join the fleet at B eft. They
k - have toojnft knowledge of the vigilance
11; i Lord St. Vincent to make the experi
ey ment. We have no daubt but their ren
: a dezvoui is the Archipelago / and their firft.
he °bje£t the revival of the Greek republic.
, a At the fame time it is obvious that the
on K' n g c, f the Two Sicilies it destined also to
fall, and the Toulon armament is fufficient
us to reduce the unpr»te£ted city of Naples
(o to their fwsiy: the next journals from France
nd will difc'ofe the real objeft. In this quar
u_ ter of the world, we know not that any ef
forts of the Brit'fh Government can obftruft
their views ? we have lamentably seen that
wherever a country is to be divided the con
federate Prince 3 of the Continent no lon
ger talk about the principles of religionand
social Older but halten with avidity to the
partition of the prey—Accordingly, if the
two Emperors are to come in for a share of
the fpoi's of the Ottoman Porte, the French
•r- will be permitted, without raoieftation, to
he pursue their eourfe.
:rs Many contradictory reports have lately
11 1 been in circulation refpefting the much talk
er of invifion. In Monday's paper, we stated
en from the Paris Journals, the very formida
il, ble preparations on the part of the enemy.
We have reason to believe, that govern
lg ment has within these few days received in
formation of the mod important nature on
a- the fubjeiS. Orders were on Monday tranf
8, mitted by the Telegraph and hy' express to
?n Portsmouth for the immediate failing of
at the grand fleet, under the command of Lord
le Bridport, and we have no doubt but that
re they will fail immediate!
April 13.
0, As this paper was g ing to press, we re
t ceived the Paris papers up to the 10th, in
t, ciufive. The following appear to be the prin
is cipal articles they contain : >
t, Yesterday, fays the Reda&eur, arrived
1. an extraordinary courier, from Madrid, with
It the intelligence that the Prih' e of Peace on
t- the 28th of March last, gave in hisrefigna
t tion of the office of Prime Minister as well
as that of Commandant of his Msjefty'a
■e Life Guards. The King accepted his resig
nation of both by a decree extremely ho
h nourable to the Prince of Peace, and provi
sionally appointed as his successor, as Prime
Minister, M. Saavedra, Minister of Finance
and as Commander of the Guards, the Mai -
is quis Rtichena unconditionally,
d It is thought, that the retreat or fall of
- the Prince of Peace is not disagreeable to
e the Directory, who for some time are said
to have fufpefted him of trimming too much
d with England, or even conceiving the design
of a reconciliation sooner or later with that
n Power.
n M Saavedra, the temporary fucceflor of
■, the Prince of Peace, is firmly attached to
Y what is called the French party,
s An expedition to the Levant, and against
!1 Egypt, is still talked of, without the precise
- objeft, or the means to be employed, being
s pointed out.
The Venetians are said to be extremely
y discontented with the Imperial Government*«d bitterly regret their liberty. The con
duit of the Aullrian Government is said to
be very severe.
Orders have been given no longer to keep
fires in our light houses in our port 3, be
cause they serve as rallying points to the
enetny. This measure will produce a food
effeft. 8
Some accounts date that Paffwan Oglou
h:s gained a complete vfftory over'the army
,of tfte Grand Seignior. It is certain that
the reverse he was said to have experienced
wa3 very trifling.
tle&ions have terminated in various
parts of Switzerland, and the persons cho
fenare men of abilities and of found princi
ples. The Canton of Lucerne (till perfeve
ves in rejecting the new Helvetic Constitu
tion. It has been accepted in mod other
places by the Primary AfTemblics.
Tfie news of a Revolution at Lucca is not
confirmed.
April 12.
Yefterda'y a cabinet council wa&held, at
which all rhe iftinifterg in town attended. It I
is conjefttirpd, that the objeft of the Coun. !
cil's meeting was to consider of the propri
ety of recommending a (reneral ar ing of
the people, by forming aflToc atitins in every
diftrift of the khirdom ; the .time of ex
ercise to be so appointed as to interfere as
little as pofiiblewiththe orcupat oils of those
who are engaged in bufintfs, but who are
still anxious to fliow their zeal in thedefence
of thf country.
Although this measure of a general arm'
ing has probably been long under confidera- 1
tion, we arc led to think that it has been
hastened by the account which, as we dated
yesterday, government has received within !
the last few days from France. It i« not
merely at Breli and at Havre where the
preparations for invasion are in the greatest i
forwardnefs, but the fame aftivity is em- i
ployed ia almost every port of France and
Holland, from Rochefort to the Texel.
At Havre where the greateftnumberof gun
boats is building, the soldiers were called'
out of their beds twice last week, during
the mod tempestuous weather, to the exer
eife of manoeuvring with cannon in and out
of these boats, as if they were a&ually pre
paring to land in this countiy. This was
done, 110 doubt in order to render th' men
accustomed and expert to this kind of ex-er
cife, as well as to conceal the preqife mo
ment when they may really be called upon
to emba k on the expedition againd Eng
land. The bed information confirms the
opinion, that the French will endeavour to
carry their views into effeft by a coup-de
main. The powers granted to Buonaparte
as our readers will fee by the l?te arrete of
the Directory, are of the mod unlimited
aud dxtenlive nature, as he has the entire
command of this expedition both by sea
and land. The French have enforced the
requisition i;i Holland of every fifth man.
It is peifeftly true that his majeflyintends
to hoid the royal dandard in the campabout
to be marked out near Windsor, in which
neighbourhood very arge magazines of flour
are aow forming, so as to supply the envi
rons rf the metropolis in cafe the enemy
fhouid effect a landing in either of the ad
jicent counties living near the sea, by vrhich
there might be a momentary iuteiVuption to
the communication with iheport of London.
The Ir (h Mail of the 7th in ft. arrived I
yesterday, and aifo'a king's messenger from
Dublin. The provinces continue in the
mo ft alarming date of didurbance ; and
juch*ii'rt th- apprehensions entertained, even
in the|Cap'.tal, that Iron gates are about to
be erefted on tl?e river LifTey, which ruas
through the city, at each of which a strong
military guard is to be stationed. An of
ficial copy of the order of the commander
in chief, the fubdancc of which appeared
in our last, will be found under the head
Dublin.
APRIL 13.
The following are the particulars of the
advices received by Government from Sir .
RichardStrachan :
On thf evening otthe Bth I'nftant, 38 gun
veflels came out of the river Seine, and en
deavoured to deal round the coast to the
Wcdwari unperctived, Sir Richard Strach
an In the Diamond, with the Hydra frigate
in company, attacked these veflels, and en
gaged them for fevcral hours during the
night. The firing ceased about one o'clock 1
00 the morning oftlu- 9th. At day break
it was perceived that the gun vefiels had ta- '
ken Ih'elter i « the river Caen. It is not as- '
certained that much damage was.done to '
the Enemy though some of the officers of '
Sir Richard Strachan's squadron date that
one of the gun velfels was funk. It is suppo
sed they had troops on board. The gun vef- 1
fels were in fuchftiallow v»ater, that our sri- '
gates could not approach th m very near. J
There was 110 man killed or wounded on (
board the Diamond and Hydra, nor did t
tbey fuffer any material damage. r
April 14.
The city of Hamburgh has pair} the sum £
of fix millions livres as a contribntion, to be e
exctifed from a loan of 12 millions of du
cats. '
The determination of the court of Ber- j
lin to mourn three weeks for the late King t
of Poland, evincei-the mod chridain spirit. '
They are resolved not to carry beyond the f
grave their hatred to the man their politics "
had so cruelly injured 1 n
The Cisalpine Republic having refufed ili
to comply with the 2d and gth articles of i P
the treaty of Campo Formio, relative to 1
the property poflefred by imperial fubjefts £
in the cisalpine territory, his Imperial ma- fl
jelly has ordered, by way of reprisal, all the v
propcityj of cisalpine fubj.cls in the Iftipe- f 1
rial dominions to b* fequertered.
The French have taken pofieffion as the t(
famous Maria Stein, in the Canton of Sol
enre, anddifmided all the prieds except some !i
eld men, with liberty to carry with them all
ihcir private effeds. The dirine was very
rich, and will afford a good booty to the
ww frerea et amis of the Swiss. There p
i- were found in "it 9 cellar * thousand butts of
o wine.
p , Extrarft of a letter from Portsmouth, A
i pril 12.
e " This aftemoos failed the channel fleet.
J confiding of 13 fail of the line, two frigates
and a fire (hip under the command of Lord
u Bridport, on a cruize**
y Sixteen fail of Veffc! 1 from Oporto arear
t rived at Portsmouth.
April 16.
Vice admiral Sir Richard Onflow was
s expe&ed to fail from Yarmouth on Saturday
- to join the squadron off the Texel.
The Lisbon fleetpaffed Falmouth on Wed
- nefday, and was joined by the trade for
- ; the Steights and the Levant, which had
r rendezvoused at that port.
The Conditution cutter is appointed to
t fail from Falmouth .w"th the mails for the
Weft-Indies. The Plymouth li igger, with '
those for America, probably failed 011
: ; Tuesday last.
: [ A letter from the Hague, dated April
;I ft fays.—" Our republic will take a very
3^i v e part in the expedition preparing a
gainst England.—There are now equipping
in our port?, more than a thousand trans
ports, which are to fail next month for the
; coafl of France."
Yclterday arrived the two Hamburgh mails 1
due on VVedncfday.
The city of Hamburgh Jus fettled her differ
; ences with the Frent'h Diretfiorv, by paying a
ransom of fix millions of livre* Tournois.
I Nothing is as yet determined at Raftadt, in
regard to the iecnlarizition of the ecclesiastical
Stares in Germany* as proposed by the French
plenipotentiaries.
! Ihe king cr Naples continues to make the
mod vigorous preparations for defence in <Tife
his dominions fhouid be invaded by theFrehch ;
| but no a(fl of holtilify has yet take*j place.
I A letterfrom Ff£nokforr of' the 27th tilt in
: forms us, that all English good's have be'eri pro
hibited throughout the provinces limited on th?
left banks of the Rhine. They 'are»to be Tent
otft Oi the country within the next fonr weeks,
on paiii of cOnfifcafion.
A letter from Ancom, of the 20th nit, ad
vises that the Irenfch are filling out a considera
ble armament in that port, delfined to make a
defccnt on the Neapolitan coast, in order to take
the Neapolitan Uoops in the rear, who are af
ftmbled oh frontiers.
Mr; F.rafer, the British Envoy at Hamburgh,
is coming home on leave of absence. lyir.
Crawford, late Secretary of Legation, is to re
side there as Britii>. charge d'affaires.
The funqral of the king of Poland at Peterf
burgh, was very magnificent; 18 battalrons
vvere drawn up in three lines, extending frAni
the Marble Palace to the Catholic Church. The
emperor himfelf followed the hearse on horse
back to the door of the church.
By letters received from Lisbon by the last
packet, we learn, with peculiar fatisfadion, that
the loyal spirit, so universally pervading the Bri
tish military at home, and which has been so no
bly exemp.ified by their voluntarycontributions
to the exigences of government, at the present
momentous crisis prevails with equal ardor
amongst their brethren in Portugal ; where a
general and very liberal contribution has been
entered into by that army, to fuppbrt the pre
sent war with France.
A new contribution has befrn levied in Ronfe. :
The ex-prince Borgheft has been required
so furnifh 18,000 perri-duri, the ex-princeft>
Sainte.Groix rhe Senator Rezzonico
10, coo, and so on gradually snd proportionably
with refpetf to the riches oi individuals. Pub
lic tranquility is completely re-established, but
there is much secret discontent among the peo
ple. All the ecclesiastics w"ho are not natives of
Rome, have been ordered to quit the city.
An emfca go ha» been laid at Havre on all the ,
neutral veflels in that port.
The garrison of Mantua consists at present of ,
10, coo men. Such an immenie ilcengtfrproba
bly proceeds frcm the considerable number of
Austrian troops that are now collecting on the
adige.
The Venetians ar&faid to he extremely"discon
tented w;th the imperial government, and bit- t
terly regret.their liberty. The conduft of the
Austrian government 1$ said to be very severe.
All the friends of the republic and of thecon
ftitutjon await with impatience the iflue of the
elections, which by renewing more than 420 '
members of the Jegifhmve body, must exert a !
powerful influence upon our destiny, Though (
they may be somewhat alarmed at the names ®f
*ome of the electors—though they fearful
that certain fatflions may have succeeded in some f
of the primary assemblies, yet their apprehen- f
fions v,mifh when they attend to the harmony i
that fubfilts betu etn the legislative body and the t
diredlory, and the firm resolution which they 1
have txprefled, of indiscriminately excluding (
irom the bosom of the national representation '
ail those who moy borrow an infamous celebrity,
either from the revolutionary excefles, or from
the crimes of the royal re-aaion .by which they i
>vere succeeded ; it is therefore to no purpose
that certain ele&oral bodies (h uld be weak
enough to let rhemfelves be domineered over by
men who are in the habit of making every thing
yield to th&ir audaciousness ; they will only fuc
eed in depriving their departments of the ad
vantage of having deputies for this year.
The late proclamation cf the direflory fhouid
be the rule and guide of all the ele&ors who love
their country. We are afTured that it is in this
spirit that ahoiit forty electors of Paris have as
sembled and made out a lift of the candid ?tes
for the department of the Seine ; it b also said
that this lift was prelented to the directory and
received their approbation.
April 16.
Paris papers up to rhu isth, were received on
Saturday ; but they contain nothing ot an inter- r
erting nature.
Yesterday the Hamburg mail due, arrived of t ]
course ; but it dors not bring any intelligence of \
much importance. The report in the French pa
pers, that the conferences at Kaitadt had termina
ted in a peace, is not confirmed, and it is extreme
ly improbable. Jn the contrary, (hould ali the j
prcl minary difficulties be removed, the arrange
ments of the various indemnifications which the 0
cessions on the left bank of the Rhihe would de- h
mand, mud be a work of much intricacy and de
lay. The articles from Raftadt fay little of the
piogref&of the negotiation, though it appears ra-
ther in a more favorable train.
The King of Naples is making every every ex
ertioa to prepare his kingdom to resist the French,
fhouid . they refolvc to attack him. The troops fc
■which the republicans have put in motion in Italy, 01
seem clearly destined to against Naple»; and -
if they have marked him out as their prey, it seems
impoflible that the King of Naples fhouid be able
to oppose their designs with fuccef>.
The followirg are the principal articles of intel
ligence brought by the Hamburgh mail : oc
A letter from Naples, dated the 4th of March, P 1
flatcs, that in to be prepared fcr every event
the royal army has received orders to form two
corps. The King is to take the chief-command is
pcrfon, and under him gen. Colli. Should war be
)f inevitable, militia can be hifed. Artil
lery and floras are conveyed to the Frontiers, and
a number cf recruits are enlisted. The accounts of
iiiterni-1 disturbances are greatly exaggerated.
In the ecclefnftical dates, thc^French are alTemb
linganarmy of between 50 and 60,000 men.
Ihe Cardi iaU ar/eOe.l at Rome, and conveyed
|S to Civito Vecchia, are to be transported to PaWr
j mo, in Sicily.
The KnghfH artifb at Rome hitherto, have nei_-
fher fuffered in their persons nor property ;
- Mr, Jenkins, the Banker, who has 101 l his house,
his plate, lerJ Briflol'i pictures, and 6d,0201. in
mon^y.
In the territories of the Grand Duke of Tufca
s ny, various attempts have
Y turbanc.s ; but hithertj without fucceft.
A body of Cisalpine troops has advanced into
_ th<* ten i'ory of the republic of Lucca, planted the
r Tree of Liberty, and exaited a contribution of
, 200,000 crowns, which has already been paid. ;
j The whole member* of the Deputation of the j
J Empire dined with Bonnier , the French Flenipo
-1 tentiary, on the firll, a»d were to dine withTreil
e hard on the third,
j f reilhari is. to rsmove to the house which wa*
kept for Buonaparte, and his wife is expe«sled from
1 Pari*
1 A formidable lift of the combined fleets of the en
l enmy was published in the Mimih-rial papers of Sat
urday ; but, unfortunately for its impreHiuii, it is un
intelligible. Several pai ts of the force are enumerat
ed twice over, while the Dutch flett is totally omit
£ ted According to report it will be found that the
1 following is nearly the numerical force of the en
a ' einy upon paper ; fortunately, however, for England
they arc in a wretched Itate of equipment, and not
one third manned.
s ' Skips of the Line.
The French h-ve at Brest, Rochfort, and
L'Oricnt, 42
t At Toalon, including fix Venetian ships
equipped, 21
j Venetian Ihips equipping, 12
I In the Eeit-Indies, 3
/U Guadaloupe, i
1 The Spaniards have at Cadiz, Carthage
nia and Fetrol,
■ • At the Havannah ana South America, j 2
' The Dutch have, equipped,
Ditto ———- equipping, ti
Grand Total, 167
And these combined powers have certainly above
tco frigates.
The king of Spain has published an edift, ordering
all the French emigrants to quit the country. This
is one of the fit ft atts the new administration, and
proves the ascendency of the Ffexjch government.
PARIS*. April 1.
The executive directory -has ifiued a decree
for abolishing the old Calendar, and ordering the
new Republican Calendar to be excJulively ob
served.
Selitn« tbf **t/j Ventofe. —Paflawan Oglou is
detei iriined to pais the Danube with his army, &
to transier the theatre of war into Walachia and
Moldavia, where he expels to find a number
of partisan* among the Greeks, and to receive
reinforcements from the malcontents of PoUnd.
According to letters from Conflantinople, the
Ottoman Porte has recently renewed its negocia
tions with him.
MEW-YORK, May 31.
A French paper of the nth April fays, " every
thing is fettled at Raftadt— l Peace finned —and the
plenipo's returned home.*'
It is said the brig Cokimbra, Coffin, arrived yes
terday in 66 daysfrom Rotterdam,brought dispatch
es from our envoys.
The convaffing of thtsfcity eleftion was completed
yesterday—Mr. Jay has a.majority of 272.
Macpherfon's Blues.
CORPS ORDERS,
:>■ June ift, 1798,
The Bcufc'S are to assemble on Saturday next,
at 5 o'clock, p. m. at O'Eflers' Hotel.
By order of the Commandant.
ROBERT HEYSHAIVt, Adjutant,, p,. t.
Macpherfon's Bliies.
THOMAS SHARP, Tjtlo*,
No. 5 ?, South Third street, opposite the New Bank,
HAVING oined the above Corps, foHcits the
faveri* ef his brother Soldiers. r,
N. B. He cm farnifh them with Materials of
the best quality. iuret.
Macpherfon's Blues.
DOBBIN .Cs* ROBERTS, Taylors,
NO. 114, CHESNUT STRBET,
Members of Macpherfon's Blues, solicit the pa
tronage of their Brother Soldiers,
june 1
First Light Infantry.
TO such of thcvoin H of Ihil Ciry who are desir
ous vo joina Umfurir Corps, an opportunity now
prrfenti itfclf for enrolling themfdves in the Light !
Infantry Company belonging to the First Rfgiment,
commanded by Lieu'. Col. Fr »kii-Gorn ei.
■' pplica'ions to be made at No. 6 Djck-ftrre .
Tfiofe persons ul :he city and liberties, who
are determined to support t;,e Conditution and Inde
pendence of their country; and are willing to join
in the formation of a volunteer Artillery Company,
to be attached to Macpherfon's Blues, ara desired to
meet for this purpose at the house George Hill, sign
of the Buck, in North Second (Ireet, on Saturday
next 3t 7 o'clock in th< evening.
Now Landing,
AtMeflrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
6 -,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Hoglheadi, Tiercs«, Barrel., and Bags,
FOR SALE BY '
SAMUEL HATS,
No. 89, South Third Street. 1
J une * §6r '
For Boflon,
Elijah Bowbn, Master, '
A fine failing v< fTel and will take freight low. apply 1
to the Master on board at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, or i
yofepb Anthony & Co. 1
june t. diw
Northern Liberty Volunteer Light Infantry. *
'"JPHE Volunteers forming the Light Infantry }
X Company, attached to the jft Battalion of
ihe ift Regimen* of Philadelphia county Mili 1
tia, wi!l take (
NOTICE, '
That pursuant to an order of the Brigade In
fpe<slor, an election for officers will be held at !
the of the President, North Second street, ,
on Saturday the -2d June next, between the j
hours of Ten iii the morning and fix in the as- ,
ternoon.
The Members are requested to be pun£nal J
in attendance. may
Drum and tife. i
GOOD Drummers and Fiters,wi!l receive hand-
fomeencouragement to join Macphersons Blues, 1
on application at No. 78, Chefnut Street. t
may 30 C
TO BE LET—for the Summer fafort l 1
The long Ball Room, 1
r.V Fourth, between Chefnut ard Walnut fired!, noiv
occupied by IVm. Al'Dougall. For ierms and further
particulars y apply at bit house in Market street. No. 13 4, *
IV here he flilt carrit on ibe 1
Hat and Hofjery Business,
On his usual reafonalle term*. " 1
may 3 3/ <
rj %lje<sa 3ette.
,j PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Jose i.
, A le«*r from London quotes t"he following
as the Price of Stocks on the 7th A pril:
Bank Shares 127 per cent
I 6 pe- Cents 84
J 3 Do. 53i
Deferred, 74*
CONGR E S S.
Yesterday, the House of Representatives of the
United States took up the resolution yesterday laid
upon the table, proposing a postponement of the two
Houses on the 14th instant, which, after a few ob
servations from Mr. Sew all, on the impolUbility
of faying how feon the public business could be got
through, was negatived 34 to 32. The unfinifhed
business of yesterday, viz. the bill for laying and af
fefiing Dire& Taxes, was, on motion of Mr. Sit-
GREAves,poftponed till to-morrow. The House
went into a committee of the whole on the bill for
eaftablifliing a Marine Corps, and agreed to it,
without amendment. They also went into a com
mittee of the whole on the bill to suspend the com
mercial intercourse between the United States and
France, and the dependencies thereof, which was a
greed to without opposition. The bl nk for fixing
the tirpe for the ad to take effect will be fi|fed up on
the third reading. Both the above bills were order
ed to be read a third time to-day.
The following is a copy of the bill for suspending
commercial .ntercourfe with France, as ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading:
A bill to suspend the commercial intercourse be
tween the United States and France, and the
dependencies thereof.
Se£t. 1. T) E it enabled by the Senate and
-D House of Representatives of the j
United States of America, in Congress assem
bled, that 110 (hip or velfel, owned, hired, or
employed, wholly or in part, by any person
resident within the United States, and which
shall depart therefrom after the ift day of
July next, shall be allowed to proceed direct
ly, or from any intermediate port or places,
to any port or place within the territory of the
French republic, or the dependencies thereof,
or to any place in the Weft-Indies, or else
where, under the acknowledged government
of France, or (hall be employed in any traffic
or commerce with or for any person resident
within the jtirifdiltion, or under the authority
of the French republic. And if any (hip or
velfel, in any voyage thereafter commencing,
and before her return within theCTnited States
(hall be voluntarily earned, or fuffered to
proceed to any .French port or place as afore
faid, or Hull be employed as aforefaid, con
trary to the intent hereof, every fuclV fliip or
vessel together with her cargo (hall be for
feited, and (hall accrue, the one half to the
use of the United States, and the other half to
the use of any person or persons, citizens of
the United States, who will inform and pro
secute for the fame, and shall be liable to be
feized,profecuted & condemned in any circuit
or diftrift court of the United States which
shall be holden within or £orthe diftrift where
the seizure shall be made.
Sett. j2. And be it further enabled, That
after the day of next, no
clearance for a foreign voyage shall be grant
ed to any ship or vessel, and her cargo, own
ed, hireQ, or employed, wholly or'in part by
any perfoi> resident within the United States,
ifntil a bond ftiall be given to- the use of the
United States, wherein the owner or employ
er, if usually resident or present, where the
clearance shall be required, and otherwi-fe his
agent or factor; and the mafteror captain of
such (hip or veirel for the intended voyage,
shall be parties, and with fufficient surety or
sureties, in a sum equal to double the value of
the ship or vessel, with condition that the
fame shall not, during her intended voyage,
or before her return within the United States,
proceed, or bd carried, diredjy or indirectly
to any. port or place within the territory of
the French republic, or the dependencies
thereof, or any place in the Weftlndies, or
el/ewhere, tinder the acknowledged govern
ment of France", unless by distress of weather,
or want of provisions, or by afhial force or vi
olence, to be fully proved and m!uiiiefted be
fore the acquittance of such bond ; and that
such vefTcl.js not, and shall not be employed
i durmg her intended voyage, or before her re
turn as aforefaid, in any traffic or commerce
with or for any perfow refittent within the ter
ritory of that Republic, or in any of the de
pendencies thereof.
Sec. 3. And be it further enafted, That
from and after no French ship
or velfel, armed or unarmed, eommiffioned
by or for, or under the authority of tl>e French
republic, orowned ? fitted, hired or employed
by any perlon relidtint within the territory of
that Republic, or any of the dependencies
thereof, or failing or coming therefrom, ex
cepting any vessel to which the Prelident of
the United States fiiall. grant a palfport, which
he is hereby authorized to grant in'all cases
where it shall be requisite for the purposes of
any political or national intercourse, shall be
allowed an entry, or to remain within the ter
ritory of the United States, 'inlefs driven
there by distress of weather, or in want of
provisions. And if contrary to the intent
hereof any such ship or vessel fiiall be found
within the jurifdiCtional limits of the United
States, not being liable to seizure for any o
ther cause, the company having charge there
of shall be required to depart and carry away
the fame, avoidingall unnecessary delay ; and
if they fiiall, notwithftandiijg, remain, it shall
be the duty of the collector of the district
wherein or nearest to which such ship or ves
sel shall be, to seize and detain the fame, at
the expenee of the United State : Provided,
That ships or vefiels which fhail be bona-frde
the property of, or hired or employed by
citizens of the United States now actually re
sident in France, or the dependencies thereof,
fiiall be excepted from this prohibition until
the day of next, and 110
longer ; and provided that in the cafe of ves
sels hereby prohibited, which fiiall be driven
by distress of weather, or the want of provi
sions into any port or place of the United
States, they may be fuffered to remain under
the cultody of the collector there, or nearest
thereto, until suitable repairs or supplies can
be obtained, and as soon as may be thereafter
shall be required and fuffered to depart ; but
no part of the lading of such vessel shall be j
taken out or disposed of, unless by the efpe- j
cial permit of such collector, to defray the !
unavoidable expenee of such repairs or sup- 1
plies.
Seft. 4. And be it further ena£ted, That
this aft shall continue and be in fcrce until '
the end of the next lefTion i-f Congress, and
no longer. I
Section 5. Provided, And be it further
enabled, That if, before the next feflion of
Congufs, ti*e gcvernm' nt of France, and
- perfoils afting by or under their authority,
(hail clearly disavow, and (hall be fuui/J to
retain fro'n the aggrefiions, depredations
: and hostilities which have been, and are by
the n encouraged and maintained agjinft the
veflcls and other properly of the citizens of
the Uiiited States, and their national
rights and foverci;>oty, in violation of the
faith of treaties, and the laws of nations,
and (hall thereby acknowledge the just claims
of the United States to be considered in ail
refpefls neutral, and tincounefled ia the
present European war, if the fame (ball be
contirued. then and thereupon it (tiall be
lawful for the Pre fide.it of the United States,
being well ascertained of the premises, to
remit and discontinue the prohibitions and
CTS" her<:by . enafted and declared ; and
he (hall be, and is hereby authorized to make
proclamation thereof aocordingly.
An error having occurred in yefterday'i
publication of the following answer, it id
now published cor red.
To the Toung Men of the Qity of Nevi-Brunf
<wick and its vicinity, in the counties of Mid
ale/ex and Somcrft, in thejlate ofNeu-Jerfey.
GENTLEMEN,
I KNOW not whether any addre'j
*ver ex pre fled more sense in so few words..
I understand the language of France zi
you inter.ret it; » A(k pardon for the
outrages and insults we have committed
agaii ft you, pay for the fpol/ations we have
committed on your commerce, and then a
man who fays he has some i fluence, will life
it to procure for your Envoys an audi
e.ncc '. an a y°ung man wilh for long
life in a country so degraded below the
charadier of man, as to lubmit to such in*
fults ?
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May nth, 1798.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED days
Br'g Fair Hebe, Eldridge, Boflon $
Capt. Hardy arrived yesterday, fr„m Cape
Francois, at the Fort, informed capt. Ford that
off the eaif end of Jieneaga he was spoke with
by a British Frigate with two armed veflels an.i
a packet, who informed capt. Hardy that he
had captured 13 American 1 ellels and lent them
for Britifb ports—that he captured the Sloup
Hudson Packet from Cape franco.s to Charlef
tm, belonging to Mr. Freer in fight of capt.
Hardie and that he had order, ts capture all A
mericans bound to or from French ports, and
that an expref's would be Cent 10 the Kritifh fleet
off Cape Nichola Mole, tocaptuie all Ameri
can vessels bound to or from French Forts.
May 30' one o'clock, P. M. arrived at
New-Castle, the (loop Nancy, of Philadel
phia, captain Hardy, from Cape Francois,
bound to Philadelphia— was boarded on the
29th, under Cape-May. by a French pri
vateer of seven guns, 62 men, who plunder
ed him of one barrel of bread, and 2 calks
of water, then Hood out to a brfg in the
offing ; boarded her, and altered her course
flood off S. E. Captain Hardy at the fame
time saw the Ganges (landing to sea, under
Cape-Henlopen, and the fame evening
spoke the cutter, capt. Price, who flood
on after the privateer, and the brig suppo
sed to be her prize.
A''en York, May 31.
Arrived, days.
Cutter Confli'ution, Salcer, Falmouh 36
Brig Earl Mo.ra, , An.ap'lls
Revolution, Peekham, Dublin
James, Wheeler, n ;, ua g
Favonte K. ty, Roach, S'-e'b'ir.," 14,
Liiiie, Milabcy, G t ei 30
Schr. J 'hn, , Jamaica 3-2
Sloop Vi&oria, , Cha 1(1 cm , 4
Newport, (R. 1.) May 23.
Capt. John B. Thu fton, of .he br>,» Commerce, be
longing to to Ncw-Yorlf, has obligingly furnilhcj
us with the following . i
.Sailed from Gibraltar, March 30, \jBA-April 14,
in lat. 36 degrees N. long. s6 W law a vrff -I at break
of day, and soon peictiied Uic was ii. chafe of ns.
We made all the fail we could, but anoutg •'c'oc!;.
A. M. Ihe came up an! gave us a eun. I l e,. ho c
our mairi-topfai! 10 the mart, and ihowed our djo:
The ca;jla n ordered me to hoist out my bnar ar „i
comeonboard, with mv papr.p, whioFi 1 did. She
proved to be the French lhi- r > La Ri-venge. cant. Oral,
let, of . 6 guns from Bordeaux. He t-r mr3iaieiy
ho.fted out his boat and lent on board th c mm -re
but thry relumed with only plundering a leiv baxpj'
of raisins, fruit, See. The captain then ord»red a re
fcarch by different officers, who, after digging in the
fait about two honrs, dif-overed a? jars, in which
were li.ooo dolbrs, the property of MeT. Murray
and Munifotd. and John and R. B. Forbes, of New-
York, which was taken on board the privateer. I
was then stripped in the privateer's cabin, even to
my shirt and robbed of money to the amount of
t6o dollars in gold, belonging to Mr Be, j B.
Mumford. They threatened to burn or link my
vessel, if I withheld any money, which on
search they (hould afterwards discover. Capt.
Grallet ordered 5 Americans on board of my
vessel, belonging to the brig Farmer, capt. Ja
cob Whittimorc, of New-York, from Liver
pool and Millord-Haven, bound to St. Michael#
which they captured on the nth April, in lat.
38, 40, N. long. 16, 16. W. and sent into
Bourdeaux. After refilling to give up mv let
ters, we were ordered to make off, when we
soon loft fight if the privateer.
C pt. Weaver of this place, was captur
ed by the French 5 leagues from St. Bar
tholemews, and carried into St. Martins,
27th March last. After waiting 5 weeks
and j days«wis condemned, vessel and car
go. He was liripped of every thing, refil
fed even his p'ivate papers, and permitted
to depart. He took pafiage from thmce
to New-York in the fchoontr Betsey& Nan
cy, Capt. Sage, of Weatherfi;ld (Con.)
who had re-dtiichafed his vcffil. '
MAILS are now received from and
sent to the following places every day
Sundays excepted.
Alexandria, Va. Havre dc Grace, Md.
Baltimore, Md. New Brunfwick, N. J.
Bladenfburg, Md. Newark, N. J.
Bolton, Ms. New Haven, C.
Bristol, Fa. New York, city.
Charleflon Md. Princeton, N ].
Chester, Pa. Rah way, N.J.
Christiana, De. frenton, N. J.
Elizabethtown, N.J. Washington, city.
Elkton, Md, Wilmington, D.
Georgetown, Ptk. Woodbridge, N.J.
Mails from Winchester. Va. are made up every
Thursday A. M. and Friday half an hour ba
fore funl'et,
May ai, 1798. ">
General Post Office. 3 eoscMadras and Ventapaulem j
. HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries, |
of the ne weft and most approved patterns, entitled IN j
to the drawback, just received, n
ANN roa SALE BV A
Alex. J. Miller Co.
No. 64, South Front street. tl
o
may 18. t(
O- IF Mr. Charles William Klemekc.
Formerly of London, a'.id who left England for p
some part of the United States of America, in wri
the year 1796, be living, and will apply perfon
illy or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti- An
more, or to MeflTrs. Ifa.ie Hizlehurft and hon, An
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great- a
ly to his advantage. Any information refpeft- 1
ing the laid Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfuliy received.
may 19 d 3 w
— ■ for sale. Aa
A neat Country House, '"
THREE and a half miles from the city, on An
the Wiflahicon road, with seventeen and a (
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in An
g rJ f,. Apply to Edward BuksjilS Co. An
in Dock-street, or to the fubferiher at Mount ,
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premies
Jonathan Willi ami. ,
N.B. If not fold before the ftrfl of June, it
will not be for sale during the fealon. '
may 19 F W
Very Great Bargains, Ar
CONSI3 I'ING of Tabic Linen, Scotch and At
India Muffins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
putchafe of— Enquiie of
1 homas Randall,
No. 88 Sprucc-jlreet. At
may i_
Military Colours, Al
PAINTED ON "SlLK—ri
George Rutter Ssf Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN aftile which will endure thehardftjips of the
weather without injury, andwh-ch for rfe»tnef>
and cxaditude of colouting cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS and drums
Furnished with dispatch, eu tha molt moderate
tcrraß, . v
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-fcucketi, &c. accomplilhed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, .which, Mr. Rrrter "fledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will A
meet the entire approbation of hij friends and tpe
public. _ 9
In tke Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Now
Library
may 3 d6w
notice.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C. A
Gullagtfr, in terms dej-ogatory of our pro- j\
sessional abilities we have to requeli the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artitls ; but to
decide upon the merits ol taA by a comparison ot
the work executed by bot'o, as it is a mode almolt
uniyerfaJly adopted by tkcm to invalidated he ta
lents of eftabhtbed witji a view of deceiv- I
ing the public, and engrofiing that bufinef-< which
their profeffimal krtowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Weil knowing thut public opi ion mud j
govern, we flatter ourftlves that the work execut- j
ed jby us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager 111 every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenectf- (
fity of judging for themselves. I
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thi | '
felf-flattering advertiiements of Mr £>. i
Any person wiihing a fuppiy of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply toGio. Rvtter and j
Co. Norris' Court, or Frailet, Gcrmat
town. |6w ma y 8 -
Military Colours. <
At C. GULLAGER's J
Portrait end Ornamental Paitititjg Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chtfnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on Elks for Military and other or- 1
namental purpose? (in a manner peculiar to 1
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather, j
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of 1
colouring, reatnefs and matter!y execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all possible dispatch, on the most ,
reafonaMe terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c &c. execute J in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.
' but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
till mailer of hi« proteffion.
Mr. Guli.ac!!&, from a number of year's expe
dience in Europe and thiscoun-ry, flatters himfelf
that proteflional talents, punitealitT, and reason
able demands, will meet ihe entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi 1 please to c,.U at his Paint;
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wiihing for a supply of Colours and
■Drums', painted in a malierly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind can ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
ilattering advertisements, but exam ne the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contra&ing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown may ro.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glafgouu, perhaps he may pass
by the name of Ghfgow Lee, or may change his
mime j he is aSout thirty one of age, nearly
fix feet high, has afcar in the upper part of his un
der lip, a lmallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fult), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the tine he ran away, by being burnt
some time past : he is a Sout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr.Jo(hual,ingoe,of this county. Itisiuppofed
thsy are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber shall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. ESME BAYLY.
State of Maryland,
Somerset County, april 10. j may 4 —4W
For bale,
A Farm and Countsy Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuyikill op
posite to tforris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contain* 195 acesotland, 50
ot which ate woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the tell arable land. The ho»fc and garden which is
large and well paled, stand in ihe molt pleasant fitu
atitjn, commanding a view of tho river, an island
which isoppoli e, and the village of Norris town—
T here is a shad fifliery belonging to the place.—En
quire in Philadelphia, No, 96, North Third Street,
01 on the premiles.
jLjril 16 xawtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, , V
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
[N pursuance of the A& of Cangrtfs passed on day of July one thousand rcven hundrcdand
ninetv-feven, en titled " An Atft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and tne
K& palled on the fifteenth day of December, ene thousand feyen hundred and nKiety-fev.en, "itiJed
» An Ac* to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties impoUd by the ACt enti
tled " An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of Julyenfming, the feveralStamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States. v*
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the i«ftrumen» er writingslollowing—to wit
Any Certificate of Naturalisation, - - - 5
Any Licence to praftice.or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment er regiftryof
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advo«ate or Protfor, in any Court of the c
United Stat««, - - - - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts ot the United Stites
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far M relates to the payment of the
duty aforesaid, De a fufficient admiflbn in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority o* the United States
(except foi lands granted tor military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fucb grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for land* granted for military services) - J
Any Clnrter-Party, Bott. mry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or dif 'harge (br or on accountof anyLegacyleft by any Will or e
ther testamentary instrument.or for any (hare or part ol a personal estate di
vided by force ot any (Utute of diftributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafe<S,the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and hall not exceed the value of One Unit
When' the'amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrad dellars, - S °
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of 1
Any Policy of Insurance or inflmment in nature thereof, on any Ihip, vefiel or
goods insured from one diftrift to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (halt not exceed live hundred dollars, - »5
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that lhall pass the seal of aay
Court, -ther than such as it maybe the duty ot the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the ufcofthe United States or some particular slate, - S°
Any Hon 1, bill single or pe*al, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any ilate, or for their
uferefpeilively, - - - ' I
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred .lollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - -
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubje.it to only two fifth parts of the duty
afoiel'aid —viz. - " ;
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
II above one hundred dollars arid not exceeding five hundred doll.ll s, I 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 30
If above one thousand dollars, - - 3°
Any Notes ilTued bv the banks now eftiblifhed, or tint may hereafter be ellab-
UrtKd within the' United States, other than the notes of luch of the said Banks
as fli»ll agree tn an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
' vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rel'peflively, according to
the following scale. - ~ r " 1 1 11 ~ * 6
On all notej not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, • " " 1
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - - »
Any Protefl or other Notarial a<SI, - - "... 25
■ Any Letter of Attorney, e*crpt for an invalid pe|i(ioa, or to obtain or fell War
: rants frr Land granted by the United State? as houtuy for military services
1 perforpnedin the late war, - . " 3 5
' Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs <?r duties, for loss than
1 five hundred dollars, - - " " " '
For five hundred dollars an 1 not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
for more than two thousand dollars, " " 3
1 Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported, _
? ! If from one diftris tq another diftria of the United States, not being ii| the
j fame State, - " 10
"I If from the United States to»any foreign port or place, - - 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, gpods or efftfls, made in any
" i cafe required by law, {except in cases of goads and chattels diftrimed for
"I pent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, «f a (hare in the Bank ot
the United States, or of any State or other B»"k, -
d ! It above twenty dollars and Rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
d; If above one hundred dollars, - ",,.7,,
I- If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
- The dutiesaforelaid will he colle&ed and ruceived by the Supervisors, Infpeilors aud other Officers
of InfpeAion in thefeveral DiOriS*, Swvcya and Divisions «f the United states, aad by such other
perfonsas (hall from t»timebefpecially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftriils for
that purpose.
The Supervifars of the faveral Diftrids will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may beptaaicable, mark or (lamp, -without fee o> reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
t' (lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, he ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application toany Supervilor, Infpeitor, Officer of lufpeilion,
T r or other oatfoii appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors ol Diflrid*
of or otner p.no I'f GIVEN unjtr my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementioned.-
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
, fl March 10. ; Secretary of the Treajury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Mar eh 30 th. 1795.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanafl of Congrtfs palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
a'terations and amendments have been made to
the a& pal Ted on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled u An a<Sl laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment and pap£r."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cate* for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per (Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpetfors refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, *ho may pur
chase atone time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment cr Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided - and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each lkin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for ea&h (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furniifc
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity. \
Given under my bandy at the
day atfdjeir above-mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on the Ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftables,at prefeut in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South 1 hird street.
April 2. §
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson & Co. |
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those I
having claims againlt said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised to fettle tfee affairs cf *he concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLERc
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B> The Stores at the corner «f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—"Enquire of Jo
seph Davidlou.
April a 6 w&sim
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifti snd Wheeling
Creeks and fen Mile Run.
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patentad in 179*;
part of them were surveyed in 178.?. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafcington, from 14 to 16 frem the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april )l. §
TO~BE sold,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and situation,
are a very desirable obje& for any man who means
to invert his mortey to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given (or thd resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. §
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wifti to receive two or three j/enteel boaid
ers. The Houfc is handsomely tumiflied; the
Gardens, M«adows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well flocked with the choicest Fruit.
There arefeveral Nlufical Instrument*, amongst
which is a moil excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfojre Coach, which may beat
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mo ft excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf may 16.
advertisement.
WHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon, haveby mutual consent agreed
t» liva separate and apart from each other from
bed and beard, these are therefore to forewarn all
perfor.s from trading heron my account, as by
contrail Ihe is to support herfelffor the future, and
1 am determined cot to pay any debt of her con
tracting SAMUEL HODCKINSON.
may ij: *itiaw
POST-OFFICE, PHILADELPHIA, 1
May, 1798.
LSTABLISHMENT OF the MAILS.
The Eastern Mail
Will be closed on Mondays "J
Tuesdays !at 12
Wedneldays ! o'clock
Thursdays j noon,
Fridays and | and ""
Saturdays J
Arrive at Philadelphia on Tnefdavs 1 r,
I Wednddays j Jt „
Thursdays t 0 > clock
Fri '.ays
Saturdays & j
Mondays J
A for New-Haven and 80/lon will be
I closed every day, (Sunday excepted) at twelve
I o'clock (no'-n).
J A". B. The Mail for the Post-towns on the main
I line east of New-York, as far as Bojfcn. will
I be doled every Tuesday, Thursday and Sat
urday with the F.aftern mail, and return with
I the fame every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday.
The Southern Mail.
Will be closed on Mondays a'^paft
Wednel'days > 7 o'c ;ock
Fridays j A.M.
I Arrive at Philadelphia Tuesdays "1 at jpa ft
Thursdays > 9 o'clock
Saturdays j A M.
A Ma\t for all offices on the Main Line be-
I tween this and Alexandria, wiil he closed every <
I day, (Sunday excepted) at half past 7 oclock. I
I A. M. :
A Mail for Winchester, Virginia, wiUbeclof- '
I ed 'very Thursday, at half past 7, A. m. and
I Fridays, half an hour before sunset.
I NB. The mail for the post towns on the main c
line through North-Carolina, South-Carolina 1
and Georgia as tar as Savannah,w\W be closed 1
with the Southern mails from ift May to lit J
November, every Wednesday and Friday, & '
from ift November to ift May. on Mondays
I and Fridays. The mails for all the oiher
post-towns in North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Georgia, every Friday, at half paftfeven
o'clock, A. M.
I The Mail for the Eajlern Shore of Maryland,
Will be closed every Monday, W«dncfday and
I Friday with the Southern mail, and arrive eve-
I ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday with the
I fame.
I The Mail for New-Castle, CantvjelVs Bridge,
Duck-Creeky Dover, Frederica, Milfard-
George town and Dags-borough, Delaware ;
7 rap and Snowfall, Maryland ; horn-Town,
Accomack C. H. and Northampton C. 11. Vfr
ginia,
Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
I and Friday* at half an hour before sun-set, and
I arrive at Philadelphia, every 1 uefday, Thurf-
I day and Saturday, at eight o'clock, a. m.
I The Mail for Dowingstown and Lancaster,
Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
and Frjday, a r kalf an hour before sun-set, and
I arrive at; PkiMelpbia, every Wednesday, Fri-
I day and Monday, at eight o'clock, A. m.
j The Mail for Columbia, Vork-Town. Catli/le,
Shippenjburg, Chamberjburg, BedfordSom
srfe\, Greenfburg, and Pittjburg, Pennfy va
nja ; on 4 thq pojl-to tuns in Kentucky and Ten-
I
Will be closed every Friday, at half an hour
I before sunset, and arrive at Philadelphia every
I Friday m rning, at 8 o'clock, a. m.
I The Mail for Potts-fawn, Reading, Lebanon
ar\d Hat rijhurg, Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Tuesday and Thurfthy,
lat fun set, and arrive at Philadelphia, every
I Tuesday and Thursday, at 10 o'clock, a. m.
A Mail for Carlijle,
Will be closed every Tuesday, with the mail
I for Harrijbutg.
I The b\ail Jor Miller's-Town, ( Mifflin county)
I Mifflin 7own, Lewijlown, Huntington, Alex
andria, Centre; Furnace, Belle font, Miltfhurg
Aaronfburg and Mifflinjbwg, Pennsylvania,
I Will be closed on l'uefday the 29th of May,
rs I at sunset, and afterwards, every second Tuesday.
cr j The Mail fqr Snnbwy, Northumberland and
Lewijburg P nn r ylvania,
1 Will be closed every Thursday, at sun-set, and
as I arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10
j o'clock; A.m.
-) r I The Mail for Plum/lead,, Bethlehem, Eaflon and
b- I Wilkjbarre, Pennsylvania ; Pitt's-To<wn,
,n,| fohnfonburg, Sparta, Newton and Hamburg,
New-Jersey ; Gojhen, ft ard'j-bridge, New
bifrgh and Kingston, ,New-York,
Will be closed every Thursday, at sun-set,
I and arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10
I o'clock, A. M.
I The Mail for Woodbury, Sweedsborough, Woods-
I to<ujn, Sahm and Bridgetown, W N Jerfev,
Will be closed every Wednesday, at 3 o'clock
I p.m, and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednef
fl-1 day, at q o'clock, A. m.
n g I Maii for Atjion and Tucker ton, N. Jerfev,
I Will be closed every Wednesday, at 4 o'clock
nd I P. m. and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wed
ror I nefday, at 8 o'clock, A. m.
»; I g? In this advertisement I have marked the
I times at which letters mnft be left at the office to
,n " J ensure their going in the Mail of the day, as all
>m j letters are to be marked —accounts of them enter-
I cd in a book, and tranferipts of those accounts
j made out to fend to the refpcStive pojl-mafters*
I As there are several places of the fame nime
I in the United States, the meichants and others
I are requested to be very particular in the diree
_ I tion of their letters; dilli nguiQ)ins the States,
I and where it would otherwise be doubtful, the
I Counties, in which those places are fiiuated—
I and when letters are not for a post town, the
;rn j nearest post town to the place ought to be men
na j tioned. ROBERT PATTON, pojl master.
ind I may 30. eod4t
„ n Walhineton, Commissioners Office,
ant ' lib May, 1798.
I HPHE Ommiflloners will receive | roprfals Hn
no- JL til the 20th of June next, for building in
efi- the City of Walhington, one of the Executive
Offices lor the United States, of the following
external dimcnfions:—l4B feet in length, and
57 feet 6 inches in breadth ; cellar walls 30
inches : firft story 23 inches ; and second story 18
inches j partition walls averaging 15 inches ; to
' contain on the ground floor 14 rooms; fame num
l, " ber on the second story ; and in the roof S rooms,
. withapalfage. The whole external the build
al irigr to be of stock hrick ; the intide walls of hard
burnt brick ; cellars of bed foundation ftonc, to
the height of the girders ; the outside walls, as far
e as they Ihew above ground, to the plinth, to be of
eat plain aflilar free-ftone ; soles of windows, fills of
doors and firing course, of free stone. ThehoUfe
to be covere i with cyprels fiaingles ; the rooms in
1 e general to be 16 feet by 20, finished in a plain,
neat manner, of the bed materials ; fix small
' rooms to be groined.
A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, for the-in
fpe&ion of those who,may wi'h to contrail ; also,
ane a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
eed die, Esq. at Philadelphia.
om Proposals, sealed up, will be received until tile
all 20th June next, on which day, the board wi l
by ptoceed to contra# with such person, as (hall ap
and pear under all circunjflances.to offer the best terms,
on- Per order of the Commissioners.
N. THOMAS MUNROE, Clerk.
/ may 11, »a\yuoJe
The Cargo of tjie Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUXy
COVSISTING OF
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALS BY
Thomas Fitxfimons
may ifr. S4 W
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from BengaJ,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue # Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Saunas
Mamoodies Peniafeoes
Tickiries Baftas
Rom all s Coffas
Poreas Tanjebf
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
1 Mordcca't Lewis.
may 1.1. , diw jawiw
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last night, from the Subscriber,;
living in York Town, Pennsylvania, a
y German Servant man, named John Nicholas
t Kolb, a taylrtr by trade about 30 year 3of age
and about 5 feet a inches high, has brown curled
hair, and nearly bald on his head, had on a blue
J Surtout coat with a lilk velvet cape and a dark
blue coat with Reel buttons, a green mixtured
! cloth jacket, cloth colored thickl'et pantaloons a
2 new rorum hat, clouded cotton (lockings ind
t] caif ik n (hoes with firings. He is a gond fchol
it lar in the German tongue and fpeaka F.nglifh ;
5c it is likely he may lurk ill and about the city of
s Philadelphi as. he has acquaintances there.
r Whoever takes up and fecures-faid servant in
„ any goal so that his mailer can have him again,
n (hall have the above reward paid by ire,
\ Thomas Owens.
I, may 23 *diw
d Ro'Btk'i 'Smith "isf Co.
c No. 58, South FrontJlreet.
HAVE received by the (hip tielviderc from
London, a quantity of Rnfiia Goods, con
j fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by tke Fanny, arrived at New-York from
* Glafgoxv, afl afjTortment of Scotch goods.
r v They have also on hand India Nankeen*,
LuteHrings, an*l a variety of India Muslins.
IV rmy zt, d^w
d 30 Dollars leeward,
I 'HE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
-L oj;en last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of 4 let figure were car
ried qfF. , . hoever vyil! apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
. above reward, or in proportion for any part
1_ thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
]sq 58 South Front-Jlreet•
e * may *3 daw
a . A few boxes of Umbrellas
n- To be Sold cheap—by
Merdecai Lewis I
ur may 17 diw
ry Ross & Simsom,
)n HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
y» Carolina Indigo, firft quality
r y A few bales Battas, Coifaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
JJengal SUGAR, in and boxes
ail Jamaica audi RUM
Bengal J
y) april z §
** ~" For Sale,
[ rS Tbe cargo AmericatifromLaguira,
' CONSISTS NG OF
iy! Caraccas Cocoa.
d Henry Philips,
, No. 11 a, Souih F«urrh Street
"o « ril »3 _J_
Frefli I eas. 1
\nd
Im, Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
rg, Captain Cooper, from Canton,
W- And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
et, At his Comptiog House, No. 54, Chefnut-flreet,
10 AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
d J ~ At hi# Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
lC f. Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
ev China Ware, a flirted ; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
, and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
They have a\[o For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
the French Cambricks an 4 Uwbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
' march 8. S
all -
l er- Now Opening,
At Wi uli a » M'L a w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
Ine No. 72, Chefnjtt Street,
crs A general affortiuent of Horseman's
ec " Pistols, dir£& from the Maqufavfturers in Londo»*
ALSO ON HAND,
j e Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
c"e lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
en Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
~ FOR SALE. I
' A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
-/jL fide of Spruce-ftrect near Second-flreet*
an- adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden aini
lin formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—-This
_lvc house is incompleat repair with back buildings*
,n S consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handfonae
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
3° As any Person inclined to purchase will view
r 1 the premifes,a more particular description iscoa
fidered unnecelfary.
II m- terms 0 f p a y men t will be one third ca(h»
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ia
j months with intereit. For further
t ' o Enquire of JOHN CR AIG,
f ar No. 1 a Dock-Jirett.
Eof m »y 'ft £_
3 Vfc Prison Maiiufaftory.
is in FOR. SALE,
ain, At the Prison of the City and County of Phik<£el«
nail phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to iody
bill Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tadcs
*in Oakum and chipped Logwood
ilfo, Shoemakets and rs Thread
Bid- Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
tonab and headltones, hearths, chimney pieces,
tile platforms, slabs, facia, window hea4s, fills, &c.
wi 1 All which may he had on reasonable terms,
ap- Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
rms. a moderate price.
Orders from a dirtance, dire&ed to Daniil Tho
•rk. mas, agent for the prifon,]will be attended to.
e Decembers. -