/ *
of tin Daily Advertiser\
By John Fenno, N° 4 119 Cbefnut Street.
Number 173 r-J
Freight Wanted.
FOR A
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majltr,
NO »' Lying at Jeff; and R; Wain's whurf—. A
flout, Itrone ve(M, of abont 170 tons bnr
idfcn, in good order { has two thirds t>f twr caffo
rtidjr rirgw cm board, and begins to load to-mortrfw.
' For frtiglji only, apply to
. PRATT W KINTZING,
No Q5, North Wafct-StCR,
IVBolmt JUST RECEIVED, **d FOK SALE,
11 bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
1 do. Patterbornes
I do bleached Hcflians
I package Oil Cloth
I < lie ft and 8 barrels SnuiT Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
>9 anchors pearl Baryle, ~a I
4 iafes elegant Carriage Harness, Whips, ,
Spurs, &c. t
THEY HAre FOE SALE
Claret in cases, Port ine in pipes, Russia Soap
in (mailboxes, Rice, Bri'nftone, Tumblers, Win
*!o\v Gas«, Slates, a caryo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Hcflians, Brown Rolls, Polish Li'etis, ct> pty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
m-n hlO futhstw
- For NEW-YORK, I
1* The Ship \ }
SARAH, 1
jgsPMfgl Captain Cooper. a
FREIGHT will he taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
I march 17. " §
For NEW-YORK, (
•• hf fine new. f;iii failing 5 loop
CONCORD,
"WgS?§|sV®ir Stephen Cahoone, majler ; 1
BSrli— \* 1. 1, take freight on very ;
moderati term's; for which or paflage (having ;
elegant accommodations) apply to the inafter on ]
board, at C lifford'» wharl. ;
march 16. *6t 1
For Sale,
THE SL00?
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruffel's Wars
Bui then "7 till —thre years old, built of the best
materials and i- well found—would answer well
for a coaster, a» (be has excellent accommodations
For terms apply to
Gurney Iff Smith.
march T3 §
t or Boston,
The Ship 1
>jAr- COMMERCE,.
Richard Waistcoat, Majler.
jkJt: ViTXs»Br To fail in a few days.
Sr^isLSV%b&£ Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
or paflaga, apply to the Captain, or to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
— "■ ■ 1 in j, I.W-4. «
march 11. , § ,w
fOrTsale,
fgjvS'K. the brig
Weft Indran,
Philadelphia built, live oak end
cedar, is coppered, {beathed and bolted, 3 yira-rs
old fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at South-(lr»et wharf, ready to
load PETER BLIGHT,
march 6. §iw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J<^ r ' Fltir.'ng, Majler,
partofher ctrgo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JtJJ'e & Robert Wain.
FeVruiry l(* ___ ——
Nicklin iff Griffith,
At their Store on \V ainwt Street Wharf*—
HAVE f|M SALS,
j8 hhds. of jamak a Rum
Madeira Wine In pipes andhluis.
Tencr!#- (Jo. '.h ppf®
Old Port do. in hh.ls. .... ~ „
Jmpt r.al Tea in quarters and eighths «f chetts
Sail Canvak, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Mudinets, in packa
g f fuitjhle for the Weft-India market
NaKs aflbrtci '
Black quart bottles
Qveens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochr.- dry in casks ;
And at New-V ork, on board the
ftiij> Diana, from Liverpool, expected round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool S3lt
Coals
Spanifli Brown j
: Venetian Red I
Purple Brown ! PAINTS
Patent White f
White L-ad
Red Lead j
•Colc 'thar vitriol
t6o bundles SheUhing pap<c
■Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
" ow cha nicklin er Griffith.
eodtf
Jannarv 1.
, For Sale or Charter,
J3§L good hope
Will carry about !»oo barrels, *nd
is ready totake in a cargo. For terms
4pp!y lJ Pragers & Co.
No. I?>» s,,,Jth Second-flreet.
Who have for sale-prime St Croix Sugar
a„d Rote, Madera, LAon, and T«ntfiß win.
November j.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 28, 1798.
This Day will be Landed,
At Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge _
from on board the brig Eliia, capt. Vaughan,
from Malaga—
Frefli Fruitg, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chelfs and half chells V
Raisins of the Sun in kegs a
Fig» in do.
Soft fhell'd Almonr! fj!\i
Grapes and Olives'in jirs i
Bloom and Affufcatel RuiQiis in boxes
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Almonds in boxen
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butt 9, &c. &c.
For Sale by o
PETER KUHN. si
P. s. - c
r The above Brig for sale tl
immediately applied lor ; Hie b
is a remarkable fine faft failing «
vefTel, having made her paflagc
to and ft om Malaga in little more than 60 days.
ma ch lot "
i*or bale, or Charter.
sa Tha remarkable fall failing j
patent Copper, '
having been a Packet of the Cow r
pany—Now put in cG"ipleat order. She is %r6 (.
tens, and capable of carrying 16 guns, now laying i
at Mr wharf. —For terms apply to £
Stephen Kingston, f
46, Walnut Stret. {
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
A cargo of Salt, a quantity of SailCanvafs and |
Gin in pipes ' ,
march to Hi - j
COPPER- '
4,000 lbs. of Sheathilig Copper,
and a fmal! .-i(Tortm nt of ftrpng Cepper, in Ihcets
and bottoms, luitable for flills. brewing and other
pans from ico to 1003 gallons, together with au '
aflortmnnt of Copper wars, confirting of Stills 1
ftom 30 to 3' o gallons, Hatter's plank and dye
'K t'les, washing do. of copper and brass, Fish ]
Kettles Tea do. Stewpans, Saucepans, copperCa .
bio Staves, copper Pump« and Einnacle Lamps,
and a variety of other articles—For S.i 1 e by
JAMES M'CAULEY,
At his Copper Warehoule, Wo. 89, South Front 1
flreet- match 16—*jt
N. B. Or hand, a fecoftd bandSugur Pan and !
Copper that will contain about ,}OO gallons, '
and will be fold cheaf. -
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of diffeient sizes, at a very large
uiscour.t ftom the sterling cod. If this Glass is
not disposed of before the sth ol April, it will be
thipped from (his port.
For terms apyiy to No. 89, South Third-flree*.
march' 26. § IW
A PERSON who has had a li
beral education, and is master of the French
and Ecgliik languages, would engage as a tutor
in a genteel family wliere there ftould be one
would no objeikion tb travelling, and is ca- ;
paVle of undertaking thfc (uptrintendance ol a •
farm. A note diraited Z. at this office will j
be attended to. 1
N. B. Wagts is no obj«a,—genteel and friendly
treatment is the only looked for.
march a 6. *3*
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
i WELLS fcf MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the tlth February last,
all perft«is li ving demands against the said
Partnerlbip, are i tqueded to furnifti accounts
for fi-ttlemcnt ; an . these indebted to the fame, to !
make immediate payment to the fubferifcer.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The buiinei's will bo carried cn as hereto
fjrr. l-.y the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
. ket- flreet. iw march 14-
NOTICE.
THREE Certificates cf Six Per Cent. Deferred,
Debt of the United States oi the fallowing
description. viz —No. 10033, 10034, and 10035.
for 5000 dollarssach, datid Bth May, 1797. and
ftan- ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
»;<! States, in the name of Benjamin Wadiliugton,
of Lanover Houfe,near Absrgavenney in Errgland,
Esq. have been loft by the capture ol the (hip Uac
chus, from hence to London, in June lalt.— I'ms,
therefore Kotifies those whom it may concern, that
apf ligation will be m4 ( l.' at the 1 rftafufy oi the L
uited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington iff Harwood.
march 21 < 6vf
1 wenty Doilars Reward.
THF. Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-street
was on the night of the 19'h instant (March) bro
-5 ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
i taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2374 20 \ yds. gj ue {i roll d finglc
2378 20 \ cord.
2379 20 .1
238Q 20 \
2381 20^
2382 20 , Two cord.
2383 20f
2384 20
2jß; 20-J J
Tie above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to jullice ;
further reward will be paid, for the ucovery of
any part of the goods stolen, ou delivery of th,
fal » eto JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Militaiy Stores.
c arch it. Iw
0 ~ ' FOR SALE, ,xt
Wm. Young's Book Store,
ito. <l, Second treet,the corner of Chefaut flreet.
REPORT of the Comniittee of the House of
ReprsfintativesoftlieUnited States, appoint
ed so prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againiWtjLLl \M BLOUNI', a Senator of the
Unite' of high crimes and m.f
dcmea?t>", made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfaof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
18 inZfling them 'to enquire, and, by ail h .vW
" means todifcover the whole nature and ext nt
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
stands impeache.:, and who are tho earties and
, r •• affociatestkerein."
9 Prinit .l by order of the Htuje oj Mp tfiuitativtt
Dec-niber »o. S
X!ie
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, March 28.
Philadelphia, March 24 th 1798
To the Prop lb of theUmrtD States.
MY CWfTTRTKUM, I •" T
The season of indifference is pad—there
is no longer security in a ftateof in-adion—
If once deluded by the hope that the juftict
of France, and a recolledion of former
friendfliips would finally triumph and recon
cile our countries ; wc must now turn from
the delulivc fight and prepare for an inevita
ble cenfcquence. The powerful irapulfe of
"gratitude exists in your breads warmed with
all the zeal of enthofiafm—the polTcflion
does you honor—it is the attribute of a libe
ral mind.
But my countrymen, Vour dear bought
independence must not lose a single tittle of
its privileges ; pofteirity have a claim upon it
as found and unimpaired as at its birth—the
injustice and haughty pride of Fran.ce de
mand an absolute iurrender of that indepen
dence- whilft your own pretended patriots
ftcond the imperious call under this specious
form, that you are indebted to that country
for your freedom and should repay her by
facrificing your sacred and Inalienable rights
and thus commit thefouleft treafon—trtafon
to yourselves. I grant you have received
from her eflential'fervices, bat (hould be far
from acknowledging that th')Cs services con
ttituted so important • debt—Fads conira
did the aflertion—one half the work of our
independence was fkiifhed before (he gave us
afiiftance—the capture of Burgoyne ilampt
the fate of the couteft.
But for th« aid /he lent you, have you
not on every occasion evinced your gratitude j
and shown an attachment to the revolution ?
did not President Washington in a speech to
Mr. Adet declare his warmed wiflies for
their success and that the American govern
ment fympathizedwith them in all their mis
! fortunes? These fentimentswould have con
j tinued to this day had not the infradion of
your rights, the capture of your vtffels,
the insults to your flag, ministers and citi
zens roused the indignation of the people
and government, and excited apprehensions
fjer your independence.
And even after this catalogue of indig
nities the door of conciliation is not fl>ut ;
but a forbearance exercised that every other
nation but France mighc have looked sot in
vain. But she was not content with these
proofs of attachment to her cause ; the on
ly obcs which America in her situation could
-i-with iuftice to her own citizens intereli and
j honor give. She willied to pTunge you in
a war that has already exhausted so much of
, the blood and treasures of Europe. -Dif
.' appointed in this expedation by the wisdom
and firmnefs of the federal government, they
have now become your bitterest: enemy,
plundetiug your commerce and sowing dis
contents among you.
I believe, my fellow-citizens, that the
condud of France towards this country has
i) chiefly arisen from the misrepresentations of
j some Americans here, (unworthy of the
name) refpedingyoiir feijtiments of (he con
stitution, Ptefident apd adininillratiop.—
These evil disposed persons have defcrilaed
themselves as a strong existing party, who
would faciifice the dignity and independence
of their native country to th? ambition of
that republic.
That there are some men with minds so
debased arid hearts so callous to the ties of
' nature and calls of patnotifm I firmly belipve
' and it is againll fnch I wish to warn you, —
\ But that there il a large portion of our fel
low citizens so degenerate, I could never
admit without a conflid wo/fe than death.
My countrymen,' I flatter myfelf, have too
much regard for their inherent rights ever to
cringe to any nation under heaven.
Banith, my friends, from your confidence
those dtfigning hypocrites who delight in
I painting the power and wisdom of France
and your own weakmtfs—who declaim a
! gainit the President and government as sub
servient to Britifli influence—who affed ap
prehensions for your liberties from the pre
tended encroachments of the Executive
e branch—such men are your moll dangerous
foes—under the imposing name of patriots
they would rob you of every privilege' ot
freemen, to lay you the feet of France.
Be assured they have their ends to answer-;
France is not indifferent to the furtigation
of this country —it is promised her by these
base Americans ; and they will receive theii
reward reaped from yeur wretchedness and
* raifery.
; Judge for yourselves, look into the tran
if fadions of the government and examine
C whether a single article of the treaty hai
been infringed. There are certain limit!
prescribed to the presidential power which
every American may be acquainted with
it will* be an easy bufioefs to ascertain whe
ther they Vive been violated—fee for yout
selves and be no longer imposed upon.
'• Was not the administration of the iUuf
trious Waihington, who so justly pofleficc
Jt your confidence and affedion, branded b)
ie these artful men as arbitrary and unconftitu
f - tional ? Can you then cxped that the pre
fent executive {hould go pneenfured ?
Depend upon it the moment is come whet
;1 evary individual muli rally round the cpnfti
it tution—the approaching storm is a trerr.en
]t dous one and vll require the exertions o
II us all to bear up ag-tinll it. If you are difu
nited the pr'»e and boast of America wii
fall vidims to its fury ; but if ur.itc3 yo:
will rife above the malice «f you io?s and
bid defiance to their power.
rue# '/us.
Far tht Gazette trf the United -'utet.
»
MR, Tt NNO,
T»? enclosed paper ex'.n'bir ; so cuiioui
a fpecimeu of the logic and pn ili.i, t»f the
OuMCtitKO —frant'Co-rJt ,t J|jtt^ c '
,ty in the ijfglflature of Georgia use Hie
cXprefilon of the great high pvreß of ivtp
lucion and sedition in the United States])
that I cannot forbear requeuing you to pub
lish h for the amnfement of your readers,
ft may also contribute to their ir.itrjtticjn,
t)y shewing them to what lengths of absur
dity, inconsistency and wickedncfj men may
be carried, when they difeard truth and
principle, and give themfrlves up to the in
fluence of party pjflions, and JAj-intereJl.
This singular paper is the nrport ot a com
mittee of the Georgia Legislature, tailing
itfelf " tfte committee on the state of the
Republic." This committee, it seems,
was apppinted to csafider of the propriety
of running a line between the United Slate«
and the Sreek Indians ; which line was a
greed 011 by the treaty held with those In
dians at New-York, under the authority us
the United States. " The committee on
the state of the republic" has difcoyered,
in its wifdqm, that it would not be " con-
Uflent with found policy, and the true in
terest of Georgia, under present circumstan
ces" to run this line ; and tme of the chief j
reasons for this opinion i« that the line affe&s 1
the jnlprelt of the State of Georgia, which
never acquiejced in the treat V it was
established. I fhal) make no remark on the i
idea of withholdingthe execuUanof a treaty ;
because its provisions are impolitic—that ig j
perfectly Jackfonian. Neither (hall lat
present dispute the right of the ftateof Geor
gia to que (lion the " policy" of a treaty en
tered into by the general government, to
which the fule andexiluftve right of making j
treaties, both with the Indian tribes and with
Foreign nations, is expressly given by the
constitution—that again is quite Jackfoni
an. I (hall equally omit any observations
on what is said in the report about plighted
Jaith und bonaJide contraSs by that very fac
tion which some time ago burnt their own
records, and declared void a sale, while
they refufed to give back the purchase mo
ney : Ads truly Jackfonian, and not ta be
wondered at, when done either by him or
Jaciall Jimmey. But what Ido wonder at,
! and must remark, and mast remark on, i»,
' that this wife and -well informed committee
(hould declare that Georgia never acquief
' ced in the treaty of New-York with the
1 Creeks ; and that the wife and well inform
| thgy weieappoiiited feould
,' have adopted their te ore. This declarati
i on is so far from being that at the ve
: ry next feflion of the Georgia Legislature,
which was held after the treaty in question
took place, that legislature formally and ex
pressly ratified the treaty ; An ad no doubt
unnecessary in itfelf ; but conclusive as t,o
the fa£t which Jackali Jimmey and his com
-1 mittee have afTerted, and the present en/ight
i ened and well informed Legislature of Geor
gia has fandioried by adopting the report.
Quere —had they not better proceed to burn
that part of thjeir records which contains
' this ratification, in order to preserve consist-
I ency ? A Subscriber,
[ LEGISLTATXIRE OF GEORGIA.
In the House of
Tburjday the xji Fibruary, 1798.
J. The committee of\ the Cate of the republic,
c have examined maturely the communications of
• ihe late goverr.pt, and are of opin.on that the
I part of that cninuijUiHcati.an which relates to the
rupuing of [he temporary line, detrtamjs the
. t immediate attention of the Itgilhturc. I.nprcl
ftd «itii the great importar.ee of tfie iubje<Jl,
' ! yolir committee with great (lef|rence beg l?ave
' | to report that i>. is the opinion of yc'ut comthit'
> tee that The complet.on of that plirpnfe, under
present circur.jtc.nccs, wiH not be coixcidenf with
; found policy and thp true intrrfj! of thj. state,.
j AHiong the many reafims whichmijjH be;.v
en for a postponement of the measure aliii 4ed to,
" your coiunilttre beg leave to submit th: follow
" ing, to wit : firft, that by the 4th arti. leof the
- United States coiiHitution, it is declared, that no
- thing in that conilitutiou (hall be so construed
- I as tn prejudice any claims of the United States,
. or of any pa-ticular fUte : and by the 9th
s tide it is declared, that no Bate fhali be depriv
ed of territory for the use of" the United States,
' " And by the 9th feflion of the hrft article, "nt
' bill of attainder or tx post facto LAWihal
• be pafled " that the territorial 1 ightsof Georgia
; are according to the line defigiuted in the defin
n itivii treaty mace at Paris—that by a treaty helc
' c at Galphinton, rn the 12th Atvemb r, 178.1
with the Creek Indians who inhabited a part o
, the a tore said territory, a Ccflion was obtainer
from them to the dale of Georgia, of a fa/} o
country beyond the line contemplated in th
1- treaty of New York, which faitl territory wai
e according to the United States and Jlate cmflitu
IS Hons laivl out into a county cal ed TallilTce—
s that the aferefaid cefiion was expressed to be a
j 4 greeahle to a treaty htld at with th
, fai l Indians, in the ytar 1783, and defignatei
~ t a new temporary line tn begin at the o
; the Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers, thence in
t- j fnuthward direflion until it Ihttuld th
i most south part of the Cream called St. Mary's
f. 1 including all the islands and waters of the fai<
j stream, thence down' the said stream to the 01.
, line"-—That this cefflon was again ratified h
the said Indians at a treaty tald at
' in i;Bo,aud that all the aforefaidtreaties of jfj
-- gnjia, Galpbinton and Shoinierhoiie, w ere d<
clared as will Jby the executive of this Jlate, J|
n by certain Indian com:iii<rioners lent by th: U
J. nited States to the itock Landing to be fail
binding and conclusive in the word , so lowiuj
- " That after the moil accurate ipve(ligation 1
II their poiref to make, after confnkin'g the be
dt cuu ent * (< having recoorfe to CrecH;able depe
i' Giiona, they ire unable to difc.ivr..- but that tf
u trsJtv <4° AtsgulU jn 1783, the treaty oi Ga
[Voi.UM£ XIII.
p 1 infon M> «»*?, »na me ;reaiy or .-inoniucr,
k n« in the year i; 26, were all qf them con.
diuud with »= fu)l ar.d m authoofed rejn ifrn.
uti ns, with as snuch iulil mtiil form ar.d gooj
faith a I;i !.'cn ucat«e» W«M'y *<t cociuiftc l , or
l^rrh.)•» c jrf'be, where oiie of th* con trailing
J.a'tir.i« ilif finite of t*e SeneSts of etjiphtem
•.{ ft" iriy"—Hilt the lands in qoeftion 'l'd of
ri«ft belong to the I.owtr Creels as their hunt!
inj; grpt.ndc. h:\vebccnttdcMJhy thein to tfc<?
Mat* nl for a valuable configuration,
<W lUßteM** ve*r«
without inv cliim or jns'rdation byafry psrt ot
the Crrsk nation."
Krfelvrd, f hit by an ad of the genera! as.
ftmhly of this slate. pafltd in the year i?B6 for
emitting the fmu of fifty thousand p«wrnU, pam
per medium, thi» a fort fa id of countiy ob
tained from the Indian? by treaty lforrtjid, wa*
pledged for the indemnification of the laid funa
lo emitted, and become thereby appropriated in
good faith, hy the slate. " That by »n ail pas->
fed in the year 1737, the territorial right of tha
:iate to a further trail of territory lying be
tween the Oconee «nd Oakmulgee rivers wa»
appropriated to the use o! the llatc troop* as 4
compenfition for lierviccs rendered the ftatej
ati{j remains to be granted to them whfn>v»r
the Indian claims thereto can be extinguished
And admit:inj, for ariutnent like, thit the ,
aforcfi d treaty *w conflitutianal, the (aid In
dians hive not in any v?ife complied -vith their
(lipuli.tioas contained in the aforefaid treaty ot
Nevj-T*rk, and thtveby committed a breach a
gu'tnji the t.ms of nations.
Ysurct'W.aittec tsking into view the forego
ing ftittmcnt «f with great difiidehca
have ajTmrtcd to themthe province »t drj w*
ing the foio*ing coittlaflnua.
. 1 tft That the couliuun*n is the f lundjtion
of tIJ law, and uo power can be excrcifed tbsl
' ia not derived from that source, no treaty or «•
! tl tr a<9 can therefore l « binding if contrary »q
. : thi«, kwuhemli* become invalid *"d without
I anptk*;-
! jd. Fhat as.the TalliflVe county was solemn-
I l\- ceded to the Hate hy the (ireek Indians and
1 ! their claim! thereby and relinquish*
, ed the treaty of New York by revelling tli« In
■l dans witk) that right which was filtmnlj re/in \
• ! quijhed to the slate, without her immediate C't'
( currence, tends to invalidate a solemn contrc.it t
, ! made and concluded between , #rti(S able to flip
' ulste, and is thus far derogatory to the 9th fe»-
I tion of ill article of the sonftitiition, which
declares that " no bill of attainder orex paftfac
to lawlhall be pal Ted ; " the aforefaid treaty i»
i : therefore in thitreipefl void ind without oWi»
/, gation.
. t 3d. That as «by the foregoing treaties th# v
( j state was completely veiled with the fee JimpU
right to the iforelaid territory, the treaty of
e New-York being subsequent to the time when
" her title accrued, operates as a deprivation as
e territory contrary to the true intent and mtan
r mg of that clause of tke conliitution which de.
. clares that "no slate lhall be deprived of terri-.
, i tory, Ice." It a'fo operates unconftitHtionally
' in impairing a claim lislemoly ratified by th#
5 Indians, by taking from her without her con»
fgnt, that to which the constitution had solemn*
e ly guaranteed an indefeafable right." tor thefj
reafsns your eomnvttee do not helrtate ta d«>
d .clare their opinion that th« running the tempo
[. rary line according to the treaty of New-York,
would be impolitic, and a dereliflion of rigftt
[ which the general government can have f.O
wiQi to eflfeiSluate.
II We therefore recommend a resolution liert»
unto subjoined, to recall the c»mmi//ionerj wha
it hav? been appointed by tne executive and fenj
p upon the aforefaid erabafTy—Becaufeif the line
j. should be completed under the ex sting circum*
llapccsof the cafe with vhejitenf aequiefetnee of
this Ugiflature, it may be at> oftenfmie a< knowU
1 of the conditutionality of the store
fiid treaty, and the means of tha
f 'late of G earn ia from reprefetiting the equity of
IB htr pretensions to the federal government witji
any lidpes of fjccefs- Because it would he a
!<ccognitioti of thecedlon mide by the treaty of
j the land to which the ttate had a complete title,
; :md thereby may be fuppotcd to vefl in the In*
dians a foe Dmple in the aforefaid territory,
g wheieby the United States upon any future
' cejion by the Indian* might claim the right of
c» fiit antijurijtfiftion, an I effectually deprive the
W slate of the power of complying with her bona
!e -Jide Contracts : according to the appropria
, tisji of Talleflcc county for the redemption of
the aforri'aid pager medium ; and alio beeaufe a
4- coofcit to running in the in queAi»n would
' > be a tac(t of the means by which
,c the late (late troops were to be compensated,
I[ * and abandonment of an object of the utmolt
er confequenoe tq the slate, lhaC of obta ning as
'b early cxtinguiftment of Indian claims to th*
liii s lying between the Oconee and
v " rivers, atid thereby enabling her to comply with
°» engagements to thole whole Cervices deserve tha
v " earliest and most prompt compenfatiojj.
' ie Your committee are the more prompt in re»
commending this measure as it ran produce no
'd paflihle inconvenience or the means of impute
;s - lug any ceul'ure to the conduit of the late gov.
> r * ernpr j but pn the contrary, it may produce thf
v " most falntary and ufpful confequeijces by promot.
jintj a friendly negociation upon the with
no the general government and afford an opportu
a!' nit*y of representing the equity of our cafe 14
:ia such terms to congress as to procure ail early
n ' and happy adjufiment. And further, because
the treKy of New-York required the line in
85 question to be run upon a av certain, which
not being complied with it is evident that the ap.
pointment of another day for that purpofc tar:,
not be made but by the treaty making po«er of
' !e the United States, by and with the consent of
as the aforefaid Indians, and the concurrence of th#
legi/lature of thit slate, and thp general govern*
~~~ mcnt.
jjg Be it therefore resolved, thit his excellency
e j the governor be requested forthwith to recall
G f the comrnijjioners and that a copy of this report
la together with this resolution, be trinfmitted t<j
)le the senators and rsprefentatives of this slate in
> g the congress of the United States ; and that hig
11( J excellency the governor be requested to fignify
this proceeding to the agent ot Indian affairs.
1 Ext rail frum the minutes.
m ; JAS. M. SIMMONS, Qle.k.
In Sen te t tfl Feb. '79 S.
j Read and concurred in.
WILL. KOBI RTSON, S ff ,
U-
iir, From a Trenton Paper.
= ' Mr. Day,
, r '|| old Maa ; tike an old Man pcrroi<
p,,_ me to tell a tale—l recollctt a dispute whic'4
the happened when I was a boy between twq
Ijl- vet> worthy nitn, who livpd in mySacs* /
I
borhood, St whom I snail sot di(l:tt&ion fake
call George an J Lewis.
It happened that 'George had been for
sometime engaged in a lawsuit with one of
hisneighbo»s,wiomllhaUcall John,and who
poffetfed a grill thill ; this John was purse
proud and bid f-.-qoently overturned carts
going to and from other peoples mills in the
neighborhood ; he low alledged, that a
greeably to the title deeds by which George
held his fends, he and his tenants were ob
liged to bring all their grain to hi/ mill to
be ground ; this George denied, faying he
had good right t* carry his grift to what
mill he pleased ; on this they joined iiTue,
and to law they went | but John, being a
man of great influence,and having the long
est purse, was likely to bear very hard up
on his antagonist ; whereupon George ap
plied to his heighbor Lewis, who was like
wise a man of riches and influence* to assist
him—Lewis, for sometime hesitated, but at
length he began to reason thus; —This fame
neighbor John is becoming too powerful, if
he should succeed in this suit, he may take
it in his head to compel others to go to his
mill likewise, and by this means mine,
may be left idle ; now if I Ihould lend George
Inont-y to enable him to go oil with his fnit,
and assist hiai with my interest, and he
« should gain fci« cause, he cannot in grati
tude go to any other mill but mine thereaf
ter ; I will assist him. He accordingly lent
George a confidernble fnm of money—with
this ftipply, and w{th the Lew
is's interest at court, George soon after ob
tained a determination in his favor.—'From
this time George and Lewis became warm
friends ; they ,were as we fay hand and
glove with each other ; they likewise enter
ed into an agreement to"render each other
every a£l of kindness iu tbe.r power, and
that the carts of either party loaded with
grain should not be injured or obftrufted by
the other party on the high road, whether
the grain with which they were loaded was
the produce Of their bwn or any other
neighboring farms, or going to or coming
from what mill or market they pleaftd.
In process of time a difputcarofe
John 8c Lewis about the property of their
refpeStive farms ; the dispute became warm;
at length tlit-y dctei mined to decide it by
I2W ; the exprnfes of the law ran high, and
the dif|jutSnts were obliged to fell their
'grain to pay the fees ; this they imprudent
ly die},till tiey bbth found their families on
tbe brink of ftarvatjon ; they tben both
applied to George for grain, who permited
his tenants to carry what they had ta spare
t<? Jofin's mill if they thought proper—but
knowing he was indebted to Lewis, and
being grateful for former favours, he made
extraordinary exertions to furnifh supplies
for his family,, and not only a (lifted him in
procuring graim but set himfelf to work,
coilt&ed money and rapid Lewis his debt
ever, before it became dtte, this money Lew
is was permitted to by out in grain and
carry to his-trtfil in George's carts'—at this
John took umbrage and his servants with
hispermiffionfreqaently overturned George's
carts when he found them carrying grain
to Lewis's mill—Of this George complain
ed, and sent one of his servants to John to
remooftrate against it : John alledged that
tbe carts which had been pverfet were lsa
ded with grain belonging to Lewis with
whom he was at law, that he had therefore
a right according to the laws of the country
a right which' he would never give up, to
overturn carts ltad'cd with Lewis's grain
whereverhe met then". Hefaidfurther,that if
George could make it appear thathis servants
had overturned,iny carts which were loa
ded with George's own grain he would im
mediately pay forit, on this they agreed-
When Lewis'heard they had agreed, he
was highly di'fpleafed, he said George was
ungrateful, 3fter tbe services he had ren
dered him to enter into an agreement with
any man with whom he was at law, and that
as George had agreed that John had a right
to overturn any carts be (hooW meet with
on the highway loaded with grain,
so he would take the fame liberty with
John's grain, notwithflanding his agree
ment to the contrary.; he accordingly ordered
his servants to overset every cart belonging
to George they met with if loaded with
John's grain, and it so happened that Lew
is's servants in the lieighth of their zeal
■charged al mod:'" -tvery cart they met with
beiug loaded with John's grain,, and there
upon overset them. Furthermore Lewis
forbade George to fend his grain to John's
mill, or to permit his tenants to carry theirs
of this George's tenants complained bitter
ly, for it so happened that it was more con
venient to carry the grain from a considera
ble part of George's ellate to John's than
to Lewis's mill—But George forbad his
servants to prevent the servants of Lewis
from overfeting their carts, faying, Lewis
is a good man , I will fend mefleng;rs to
hfm and remonstrate to him against the in
v jury he is doing me. I have not been uu.
grateful to him : I supplied him with grain
in the time of his Beceffitirs ; I repaid him
the money I borrowed fiom him even be
fore it came due, that he might be enabled
to prosecute his Iswfuit, and even furnilhed
him with carts to carry his grain, to tbe
offence of my neighbor John, who quarrel
led with me on that account, and even now
I have not entered into any agreetsertt with
John to his injury—If I must not qnly not
carry my grain to any mill but that of Lew- j
i?, but nut be allowed to buy a horse from, i
or make any other bargain with any x of my
neighbors but such as Lewis pleases, I am
indeed ia a worse Situation than before I en-
tered iuto the contest with John, and had
better never have engaged in thit lawsuit at
all—whereupon George sent meflengers to
Lewis, to confer with him on these things
and to renew their friendlhip, but when tbey
came Lewis indeed permitted them to enter
bis house, scut turned his back upon them
and refufed to See them, neither would he
hear them, or speak to them at all, but de
clared publicly in their bearing that he
would order his servants to overturn every
cart they should meet with going either to
or from John's mil!, or in wh.ch any mea
should he feunii which-had been ground at
John'd mill let it belorg to whom it might
—On hearing this account' George saw t hat
he was in evil plight, and his tenants
very wroth, fcowevet" he deliberated wit i
himfclf calmly, and Taid, if I go to law
with Lewis, the expenses will he great and
my tenants may be very much injured betcre
a determination,can be had, though ju ice
would undoubtedly be in my favor ; 1 will
not go to law with him hastily, he is m ;
friend, he has been injured by John and is
irritated, a little time may alter his ienti
roents, I will permit my servants to defend
themselves, and to prevent his servants from
overturning ray carts, but I will not go to
law with him immediately ; when his pai
fion is abated and he has time to recolledt
hlmfelP, ttvln fKen argue with him calmly,
-and I am confident he will hear to reason
By this prudent determination a lawfiut
with all its concomitant evils was avoidsd—
After some time the paflion of Lewis fubli
ded, he reasoned calmly and determined
wifely—He said with himfelf, I have been
too hady and betrayed too much passion in
my treatment of George, he hath fheun
more prudenee than I have done, I ha\e
injured him and will make him repaiation.^
If any of my friends feel .themselves ir.
a similar situation with George, I have told
this dory for their eonfideration, let them
profit by his example. SENEX.
From the Columbian Centinel.
The PURSE STRINGS /—No, IV,
Or ttn EXAMINATION of the Idle ALARMING attempt
ioCoNGSESS, 1 ta CONCENTRATI J
Housi o/REPmsisrAi.v s.
FEiLoir citizens!
I Endeavoured to convince the public
in my Inft, by a great variety of argument
that the right to. carry on our lotercourfe
with foreign nations was vested in the Pre
sident, and T-conceive that none but difer
ganirers and-jacobins will refufe their aflent
to myi fec(W4 prtfpofitios, " That the
Hotif: of ReprefentutiQci has no r/ght tq in
terfere with, direst, manage or cheek this
jpower of the President ncr to examine in
to the expediency of its exercise,(except for
the putpofe of Impeichmen .)
The possession of a right necefTanly implies
the exclufionof inteffering rights or claims.
The delegation of a power absolutely, and
witHout any limitatioji, more especially a
-power which requires discretion, involves
in ir an unccntrouled right to jfxercife it.
Thus, the three gseat branches ®f our go
vernment, have each of them refpeftirely
certain absolute powers, and neither of the
others Has aright tocontrol or interfere with
them.. The judges of the Supreme Court
have a 6 much right to enafl a law, as the
Legislature to make ajudicial decision ;
and the executive might as jtiftifiably lay
and levy a revenue without the consent of
the Legislature, a3 the latter can inter
pose between the President and foreign na
tions. Artful encroachments on any of the po
wers exclofively verted in any particular
branches of the government, are more daa-i.
gerous than open inroads—They are at firft
small, and pass unohferved ; they then ac
quire the authority of precedent, and array
themselves in the posture of rights—Of
this nature are those conftruftions which
give to one branch the power to check and
control whatever they may deem the impro
per exercile of power in the other.
For illustration, SuppofeaPrefident, con
ceiving thatatax was oppreflive in its opera
tion, should recommend to the Legislature
to suspend it; that they fliould refufe , and
that he should afiume the power to direst
the officers not to colledt it ? What would
be the language of jacobin eloquence upon
such an encroachment ? Would' not every
"patriotic" throat be stretched to its loudest
tone, and every seditious firebrand be ful
minated against the tyrant who had been
guilty of the outrage ? And is this a more
decided, daring or direst violation of the
constitution, than the late inquiry in the
House of Representatives, itito the necefiity
the propriety, & even thehonefty ofthe execu
tive appointments ? But the 'patriots' will an
swer, that the Hyufe dpee not claim the
power to recall, or even leflen the number
of diplomatic agSits. and that the cases
put by me are not therefore analogous. It
is true —1< plead guilty—they only claim
the privilege ofJlarving them.
This idea naturally leads me to the con
sideration of my third propafitiou, which
is, that the povver to appropriate money
does not imply or include the right to in
fringe any exiftißg engagements made in
pursuance of Handing laws.
Appropriation, either in ftrift or liberal
conftrudtion, Signifies only the power to
designate the particular funds OHt of which
a debt of the government (hall be dischar
ged.
This is the cUar and obvious meaning of
the constitution when it provides that no
money (hall be drawn Irom the Treasury un
less by appropriations made by law—and
such has heretofore been the coaftru&ion ol
Congress iu making all appropriation afts,
which have been Simple defgnations of tht
funds, out of which existing debts of the
government were to be paid. It is no mon
than the order of a merchant to his bankei
directing what particular money he should
apply discharge of a particular en
gagement. In'this afi the merchant has nt
choice 3S to the payment ofthe debt, hisc
leflion and discretion determined when hi
made the contract, and in like manner thi
discretion of Congress is exercised whei
they fix the salary or make an engagemen
with an individual, but the moment fuel
grant has pafied, all discretion is at an end
I he power to refufe to appropriate mon
ey for the payment ofambaffadors—judges
surveyors, or other officers, whose falaric
are fixed by law, ij no greater than the pow
er of a President or chief Justice to refufe t
do their duty ; nor is the rcfufal more ju:
than the demand »f the highwayman ol
that wealth of which he thinks lie can raaif
a better use than the traveller whom heplun-
It is in short, a violation of the constitu
tion, under the pretence, of discretion. t
is a pretext which has covered tyranny in all
ages and which will continue to Support it
so long as it is admitted. n - ,
The fourth and fifth propositions ftatert
in my ktt number are necessary and inevita
ble inferences ; they are obvious and logical
corollaries from the above principles.
ther the ihrccbrancles have no power to pals
a law, or else each of them is bound by it
after it has paf"ed. Jocolm metaphylicks
may prove that a treaty is a perfed contract
and yet not binding ; that a law m obligato
ry and yet may be violated at
that a mil may be and yet can be ar
retted, turned ouj! of cfs?e, banifted or
guillotined without trial or criminality.-
But New-England common finfe will exercise
the right to doubt these political bulls
will hesitate before they swallow the enig
matical paradoxes, and while they are unde
cided they will adhere to the constitution of
their country LIV\.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY —MARCH 23.
The House being in a Committee of the
Whole on the bill providing the means of
Intcrcourfe with Foreign Nations, and
Mr. Nicholas's amendment being under
consideration :
Mr. Reed fpokf as follows :
The fuhjett before the committee } be
lieve is perhaps generally considered as near
ly or quite cxhaufted. Nothing very new
or important is further expefted : however,
resolving, so far as is poflible, to avoid re
peating those arguments and obfetvatrons,
which hare already, in the ("pinion of some,
been too often repeated, I feel disposed to
ipake'a few remarks.
The objedt of the amendment under cor
fideration, as I understand it, is to control,
or restrain the operations of the Executive
Department, with refpeft to ministers ap
pointed to officiate at foreign courts : and,
this restraint of executive power, is to be
effedted by reducing-the sum, or by appro
priating a less sum than hath been heretofore,
appropriated for that purpose.
The gentleman who brought forward this
amendment, and they who have joined with
him in the support of it, do not pretend to
accuse the President of having violated his
conttilutional trust, nor have they adduced
any proof to (hew that the charaJier of per
sons appointed to the office of ambassadors
is fueh, or the number so great, as really to
endanger the constitution, or the rights an\i
liberties of our county. The pretence is,
a fear, or apprehension of abuse in future ;
which in my estimation, is very far from be
ing a reason, fufficient to jwftify the mea
sure in contemplation. Certainly the Pre
sident is exclusively authorized by the con
ilitutionto nominate consuls and ambaflador#
gild flnj.oonlisnt flf the Cfcn
ate, hasan excliifive power to appoint them.
What reason have we to think that this du
ty has not been, or will not be discharged
faithfully and properly ? What reason have
we to imagine, that if the fuperintendency
and direction of this business, were taken
into our hands, it would then be tranfadted
with more fidelity, with more propriety and
fafety to our conftituerits ? Have we more
information upon this fubjeft ; are we more
capable of judging rightly with refpedl to
the number, the chara&er and grade of fo
reign ministers ? Or is there a greater degree
of responsibility and-integrity attached to
our ftatisn, than to the executive depart
ment ? These things will not be pretended.
1 am ready to acknowledge myfelf deficient
in point of foitable information upon this
fubjedt ; neverthelefis, it does appear to m«
reafanable to suppose, considering the pre
sent peculiar (late of Europe, our relations
and connexions with the European nations,
that the number of ambafladors employed
abroad, is not too large, nor their grade toe
high, to manage well the difficult and inter
esting affairs of our national intercourse.
Responsibility is evidently a very import
ant and distinguishing chara&eriftic in i
representative government: and, it nauft b<
obvious to eveVy one, that the President ol
the United States, in this refpeft, is placet
in a different situation from the House o:
Representatives. It is perhaps a difficul:
thing, to render so numerous a body, as th<
House of Representatives, fufficiently res
ponfible. If a majority or less number o
individuals, fhanld at any time be guilty o
improper conduft, in their legislative capa
city, the blame might be divided amonj
themselves, or psffibly be fhifted from them
selves, to other members ; so that the peopl
at large, eould not easily ascertain, whoth
persons really blameable were. Befidei
members who belong to the House of Re
prefentatives, are chosen by diftritts, or b
theJlate they represent.
The circle which they more immediate!
represent, a-nd to which they are more pai
' ticularly refponfibie, i 3 comparatively small
whereas the President, is chosen by the L
■ nited States.—He represents the whole unio
and to the whole union he is accountabi
and responsible. His responsibility, to Go
and men', is of the molt Serious and folcm
1 nature. His obligations to the fiiithful an
■ ! proper discharge of duty, are the greatefl
■ and motives the strongest conceivable ; ant
: 1 for my own part, I am unwilling to dim
1 ' nifh that responsibility, which is in foiT
t feiife our national security and Safeguard, fc
1 coatrolling or reftrairiing a power, which
■ am not suspicious has ever been abused.
I am sensible it has been insinuated thi
i our political intercourse is too extensive.-
s That this intercourse always has, and evi
- will prove difadvantageou9 ; but, perha]
0 these suggestions are without fufficient sou:
1 dation, We might have bees fubjedted i
much greater evils, without, and for the m
want of this intercourse with foreign nati- ur
ons, than we have fufiered in consequence cc
of it. ... r
Political as well as commercial intercourie cc
with .other nations, may possibly be carried pi
to fttch excess as to operate disadvantageous- m
ly : and, wbeimot carried to excess, it may
be the means-os violating and of inspiring er
some individuals and perhaps some particu- in
lar places, but the community at large, 1 t!
apprehend will be benefited. di
' All nations have their improvements and v<
virtues, as well as imperfections and vices ; bi
a suitable .degree of mutual intercourse, e:
would, theiefore, be in all probability, of ti
mutual advantage. In tills as a p<
nation, may be mere refpedtable tl
abroad : And, I am pervaded, that the ia
more our foreign ministers ; and also, the b
more ttrrpebple of this country in general, w
fee and know of other nations—of their p
manners and customs—os the nature and o
perations of their governments, the mtg-e p
highly they will, eventually esteem and ad- tl
mire their own. ei
In America, free representative govern- rr
ment exists ; and, we hope, their existence n
will be perpetual. ' t;
Tins extensive continent, placed at so si
great a from other contineifts, and ai
discovered iu so late a period of time, is fa- b
vourable to the csufe of liberty ; it has pro- o
ved an asylum for the and perse
cuted of other nations : And, from our if
political as well as commercial intercourse w
with other nations and governments, fhey, it
as well as we, may be essentially improved
and benefited. ©
Gentlemen in favour of the amendment, p
now before the committee, have urged its b
importance, aud the neceflity of its being a- o
dopted at this time, in order to check, as e
they pretend, a veiy dangerous patronage, t
arising from the exercise of executiveofpow- v
er, in appointing foreign agents and ambaf- fl
fadors. To me, the suspicion appears to- h
tally unfounded** '-I can discover 110 alarm"' b
iiig piv£peift e£ thfs kind. Corrnption is
not congenial to our government —nor is it e
requisite.to support and render popular any p
part of its adrriniftrati«n. Our (late govern- r
menUprecludethe neceflity of many appoint- j
ments ; offices are, comparatively, but few,
and none of them very lucrative. No perfoo, a
in or out of office, can reasonably expert r
to secure any real and lasting popularity, by i
corrupting others, or by being himfelf cor- I
rupted. _
If our government had been founded in t
usurpation. and upon arbitrary and oppres- i
five principles, then it might have needed a
variety of vicious measures for its establish- -
ment. Then we might expeft that the ad- i
miniflrators would addrofs themselves to the <
paflions —to the avarice and the ambition 1
of its fubjetls. • Then every species of ar
tifice and intrigue—political and religious
tests, with hereditary and exclusive privile
ges might be neceflarv for the support of ad- :
ministration.
But the Constitution and government of i
the United States, need none of these means 1
for its fuppcrt. Formed by a free and en-
IglittMA, pcupU-T wyim !■»*"lTofate—toans ot ~
equal rights snd privileges, it can only be
supported by just and equitable lftws, fairly
and impartially executed.-—The President,
in his appointments, cannot be supposed
under the influence of favouritifm. Every
motive will induce him to have a proper re
gard, not only to abilities and information
; but also, to real and substantial merit, and
; integrity of character. I apprehend vis
■ have no reason to doubt, but that such
men will be appointed by the Executive, to
. the fevera! offices, as in their honed judg
: ment are bed qualified and disposed, to dif
i charge the refpeftive duties, with the grea
. left propriety, and most general acceptance
, to the people.
: Under these, arid similar impressions, the
i objeft of the amendment, appears to me,
; not only unnecessary, but improper, and
accordingly contrary to the intention and
j spirit of the Constitution: We find no vie
, lation of constitutional trust, in the execu
l tive—no flagrant abuse ef power is pretend
> ed—no inftaoce of improper conduft, which
. can, in the least degree jultify the meagre
in contemplation. 4
The method, which gentlemen, who ad
i vocate the amenement, propose, for reftrain
e ing the exercise of executive power, is by
f ! reducing the sum heretofore appropriated
I ! for the support of foreign miniller6.—ln
f ! coufidermg this propopofition, a conflitu
t tionaltjueftionhas been broight into view—
e different opinions have been advanced and
- these opinions have been variously exprtffed.
f I feel therefore disposed to express my
f own opining also, and in my own way on i
- this occasion, with refpeft to the doArlne
t of appropriations.
i- The Constitution fays, no appropriation
e of money shall be made but by law. An
e appropriation is a law, or aA'of the Legi
!, j llature, appropriating a fmn of money for
:- ! some particular purpbfe. A legiflafive
y ] adt, is in its nature, voluntary and delibe
rate : Every member of the Legislature
y possesses the right of deliberating and deci
r- ding for himfelf.
; It is acknowledged by all that the legif-
T- lature has, what is termed thepbyjical
m er of making or of refufing to make <?ppro
le priations ; but in certain cases, and in the
d present cafe, some pr'etend this houle has
in not the moMir;power or to ap
id propriate a- le&ufurt been hereto
t, fore appropriated for the like
d, by moralpaiuer t is here meant, the right of
ii- doing a wrong and improper aftion, eer
ie tainly no individual, or body of men, can
>y possess this right, in any cafe whatsoever.
I There is no dispute here, and for niyfilf, I
believe it would be wrong and highly impro
at per and inexpedient to reduce the sum pre
- posed to be appropriated, according to the
er objedt of the amendment. But, if by mo
ps ral power be meant, the right of judging
n- when, and how the pewerougbt to
to be exereifed (and I think this must be the
meaning, if it means aur tbji'tr) ll.iV rir&i
undoubtedly belbngs to the legiflat-jv t. The
conftitun'on has no where: said th#jl eirinatatre
rti3ll not exercise this power ; nor hat the
constitution faid_the right of exetcifing this
power /fail be veiled in any other depari
ment of the government.
In this view of the fubjeft, I do consid
er the Conllitutional power of appropriat
ing money, as a sacred trull, committed by
the people of the United States, to the
discretion of the legislative branch of go
vernment.—This power, or trull, is not to
be wantonly abused and trifled with, hut
exercised according to the principles of jus.
tice and good faith—of found wifdem and
policy. In the exercfle of this power,
there will sometimes be a difference of opin
ion among the members of the legislature •
but it is to be presumed, that a majority
will decide rightly, and legislate with' pro.t
priety.
I am sensible it maybe objedled, that this
power might be so exercifod as to fruflrate
the mod important executive meafnres, and
even Hop the wheels of government ;'it
may also be said, that if the senate should
refufe to concur with the house of reprefen
tatire, or the house of reprefentativei
fufe to concur with the senate, in making
and repealing laws, then there would
be an end of legiflatioti, and the wheels
of government be entirely flopped.
The fame unhappy effefts would ensue,
if the executive department should interfere
with the legislative, or refufe to discharge
its particular duties.
But these evils are not predicated upon a
conflitutional exiltence of power—ihey are
predicated upon a prefnppofed pjflible a
buse of powtr. Such abuses I conceive
ought not to be thus' anticipated. If they
ever Ihould arrive, then will be the proper
time to correft them j and, in the mean
while, each branch of the government
should lay alide unre&fonable jealousies, and
have a suitable confidence in all tha other
branches.
Each department of the government is
equally important, and equally dear to the
people of the United States ; and, their
■ mutual co-operations are necessary to the '
public welfare.
, The President and members of congress
, are all chosen by the people—The govern
ment is theirs, and in their hands, as clay
is in the hands of the potter, and we mull
hope and expeft that they will moiMd and
falhion both the legislation arid adminillra
i tion, according to the true import and mean
ing of that mofl exeellent conflitution,
l which they have framed and adopted by mu
. - jal consent, and for mutual benefit, arid
which they flill admire and revene, as the
: only furc palladium of their dtareft rights,
1 liberties and privileges.
s Tuesday —march 27.
After some private business, which fhill
- appear in a future paper,
The house took up the unfinilhed bufi
f ness of yelterday, relative to the appropria
s tions for the military establishment ; and
. Mr. Gallatin's m#tion for ftrikimr out
F 200,000 dollars, tor the purpose ofinfert
: ing 150,000, for theexpences in the.quar
r ter mailer's department, coming under con
, lideration, after some observations on the
I fubjefl, the sum was agreed to "be left in
y blank.
The refutations were referred to the com-
II mittee of ways and meaas to bring in a bill
i accordingly.
c Mr. Sewall moved for the order of the
h d;iy on the bill from the Senate to authorize
o the President to porchafe one or more foun
- dries.
Mr. Baldwin hoped the house would now
- resolve itfelf into a committee of the whole
e on the Hate of the. union.
After a few okferva'ions from Mr. Sevva'l
e agajnll, and from Mr. Nicholas in favour
of going into the business of the union, the
d house resolved itfelf into a committee of the
d whole on that fubjefl, Mr. Dent in the
chair ; when the PrefideHt' , s message of the
1- 19th inflant having been read,
1- Mr. Sprigg rose and observed, that every -
h fubjefit which came before the committee of
c the whole, on the ftafte of the union, mull
neceflarily be important ; but he-believed
1- there never was any more so than that which
). was prefentcd to them by the message of
y the President which had been read. Separ
d ated as we are from Europe by an immense
n ocean, it were to be wished that we were
1. equally separated from its political concerns
_ and that we fliould have to do with them no
d farther than what relates to commerce. —
|f. This unhappily, had not been the cafe, and
,y there now exilted painful differences betwixt
)n this country and the French Republic. The
, e meflage which had just been read was an e
vidence of this. In this fitn'ation of thirrgs,
)n it appeared necessary that the house should
n declare whether this country was to have
•j. prtce or war. This was a fubjedl in which
ur the bell interests of the union were deeply
concerned, and be hoped the business would
, e _ be met fully and fairly.—The President had
re informed the houfc that the present slate of
-i- things is changed from what it was when he
prohibited the arming of merchant vtlTels,
[f. and that therefore he? had withdrawn that
v . prohibition. Whether the order formerly
o- issued by the Prtfldent for this purpose was
he in conformity to the spirit or letter of the
as la<v, waa not of importance now to enquire
p. —-the eSicA <ha<kbten benefloU, and in the
o- fame proportion ?s the prohibition had been
If beneficial, would bf the evili of withdraw
of ing it. In order to afeertain the le-nfe of
rr- the committee trpftn what meafnres may be
an proper to be talc Mi in the prefeiit critiS, he
-r. fliould offer the folic wing refutations to their
I considerations .
ro- "Resolved that it is the opinion of this
r«- ccraih'ttee, thst mider txiih'r.fr cirrumihn
he ces, it is not-expedient for the United Si»'e<
10- to resort toiraragJ'inA thr French rfcpullc
ing Resolved, &¥{ 'h*t provifon ought to
to be made- by law fwretMairtg the arming'
he of merchants *tffiek, eKtept in C3&S 10i which the praftce was heretofore permit- i
ted* !,
" Resolved, &c. that adequate provision j
(hall be made by law for the protedtion of (
our fea-coads, and for the internal defence t
of the country."
The fird resolution came under debate, (
to which an amendment was proposed by t
the Speaker, to ilnie out the words against <
the French republic. The debate then turn
ed upon this amendment, and occupied the
whole'cf the fitting, without any quedion
being taken. A lketch of this debate to
morrow.
NEW-YORKTMarch H- '
Thomas Paine has written a letter to vin
dicate the Directory forbanilhing Pichegru
and his companions on the 4th of Septem
ber lad ; a measure which he acknowledges
to have been a violation of the conditution, J
and to be judified only on the principle of '
" supreme necessity." t
No misfortune in life is more degrading i
than for a man's paflions to survive his pow- (
ers, and for his carcase to outlive his repu- '•
tat ion. Paine has degenerated in his ability j !
to write,, as much as his repntation has been ! '
impaired by his principles, and his health, ; <
by his vices. His writings exhibit but the | t
, ficalcton of an author, and ferveonly to snow e
that the man once exided.
He sets out with affirming of the French
■government, " That a better organized con- '
lh'tution has never been deviled by human ; 1
'wif&om," and " that it is free from all the 1 *
Hrices and defers to which other forms of
government are more or less fubjeft." j r
He aflerts as a position which is not to be ' }
denied, that each of the parts of a govern-j .
xr.ent should be in perpetual maturity, and ; '
that we diould laueh at the idea of a nati- j C
onal council compoftd of children, or idiots, ; 1
of deaf, dumb, blind or insane persons. | f
Yet this is often the cafe of an hereditary
executive called a king. r .
Of all this pperile duff, Tom Pain« is
welcome to the credit. The ideas are like
a thousand others very proper to amuse chil.
dren and hackneyed sots. In all hereditary
governments provision is made for a
rary defect in the powers of the executive; a
yWid a nation is usually as well governed and c
as happy under » regency, as under a king A
of full age. And we venture to assert that 0
in very few of the monarchies of Europe 1
have the people had occasion to weep over v
the infirmities of their executive, so often
as thii miserable opprefled inhabitants of F
France, over the turbulence, the paflions,
caprices and vices of their executive. t<
Theories are idle things—and Tom Paine
will never make men believe themselves more a
happy under the executive of jive, who ar- 11
red,banifh and confifcate pe-rfons at pleasure;
than they are in a monarchy, where no man v
can fuffer the loss of life, liberty or proper- a
ty, but in pursuance of fixed laws. I
In deciding the quedion whether execu
tive power is bed lodged-in an individual or
a plurality, he fays, "an individual willnne w
ver be any thing more than the chief of a 0
party, and none but those of that party will c
have access to him. -■ , ~n
Admitting this in its fidl extent, what is
the preference of an individual who in the
chief of a party, or a majority of five, who
are chiefs of a party ? It is not in unity of
number, but in unity of principle and views,
that party confids ; and this unity will 'be !c
formed as certainly it) a dire&ory o( Jh>e,
as in an individual ; nay, it would be as '
certainly formed, only with more intrigue t .
and corruption, in an executive of jive hun- „
dred. In the name of common sense. let
Tom Paine fay, what is the difference in
principle, whether an individual leads a par- ; t
ty, or whether Barras, lieubel and Lepaux Iv
lead a party ; and fend their colleagues, and si
all who are not of their party, to South- t<
America, without law and by a sovereign g
aft of party ?
For shame, Paine. Cease to peder the p
•world, and especially the intelligent Ameri- n
cans, with fiuh sou ferric. ci
The writer goes on to fay, that three men
in the executive are too few tor the variety
and quantity of bafinefs and that Jive is the tl
right number. And will the reader believe tl
tbit this celebrated man, has let himfelf d
down so very low, as to judify the .choice
as Jive, as the number of the Direftory,
from the analogy of nature, in giving to t] -
the human m dy Jive fenfet, Jive Jingen and jj
Jive t'jes !! ! This is certainly going beyond w
Lord Ccke, in vindicating the number
Twelve ina jury, from the fame number of
apostles and of signs in the zodiac ; and in w
ptoving that edates never ought to ascend
to the ancedors, but always to defeend, be
cause, beeaufe the bodies defeend in the na-
tural world by the power of gravitation.— r j
We should have supposed that in the" age of
reason," even Paine would have been asham
ed of fueh puerilities! !
We (hall notice only one other paragraph
in this fix-penny publication, which is, that
which chargesPichegnj,Barthelemyfc Party, t
with defeating the negociations for peace. • "
This is (uch an abominable falfehood, that
no honed man can overlook it. v
It is a thing known to all the world, that !
the proscribed party were the advocates for ] P'
peace, and urged the accomplishment of it 01
byall the meansintheirpoweft Nay, they ur- i
gedforpeaceon thebafis of judice,that of ad- j
heringto thepreliminariesfignedatLeoben in 1
April; and with England on the basis of w
equivalents, that would have rendered peace re
durable. It is a known fadt, that Barthele- E '
my urged the f cred obligations of the pre- P E
liminaries, to preserve the integrity of the
German empire, arid wished a peace an that w
principle. On the other hand, the jacobin
majority, would not consent to make peace
With the emperor on those terms on which m
the faith of the French government had m
been pledged by the preliminaries, but infid- ®
ed on violating those articles, for the pur- ' l!
pose of extending their dominion to the
Rhine. And {his was one great obdacle P'
to the ctvnclufioii of peace, which retarded tr<
that happy event, until September, when ,
when the tyrannical members of the direc- » w
, tory combined |o get rid of the honed part
! of . thc, r body, that they might carry their
' p " ,nts b 7 for «- And in this they fucceed
cd—and having rid themfelve« of all eppofi
■ . tion from integrity and the pacific views of
good men,the despots are at liberty to pur
ine their fchemesofinfultinganddomineerintr
, " V ? r a !' n f«'°ns ; and of prolonging their
detpotifro by continuing the war.
jDje e>aittte.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, March 28
—
THE SLOT DIScqfF.RF.L>. '
There can no longer be any doubt by whom
Poppa MacUy was played off the other day
in his absurd and debafmg rcfolutions muttered to
the Lcgiflature of Pennfylvama. Thole offered
by Citizen Sprigg, to tho House of Reprefcntatives
of the United States, bear the fame stamp of dis
grace and jacobinism on their front, and have cer-
I taiiily arisen from the a(hes of the others. This is
j one «f the (hallow prcjeds of the Democrats in
| both theft: bodies, to support and comfort each oth
, er in the approaching downfall of their Towsr of
Babel,—the Palace of Democracy. It was hoped
that if the State Legiflatufe could have been place {
| in the front of the battle, the Peonfylvanla mem
; bers in Congress, as well »• others of that bo !y,
' would have advanced to th s iaft flruggle wi;h
j more spirit and confidence—But the Legislature of
1 - entifylvania did not chc.ofc to be the advance guard
; in a contftt of infamy, and the poor Demos in
j Congress are thersfore ( obliged to push on with
| their usual auxiliaties, elemcr, virulence w&faljbooi,
j supported by impenetrable impudence.
The following refolutiqns were moved in the
Sfuate of the United .States on Monday
last ; and the fird waa yefttirday tfegatii
ved 22 to 5.
" Resolved, That it iar expedient to lay
an embargo, for a limited time, on all ftiips
and vessels owned wholly or in part by the
citizens of the United States, otter than
ftiips or vefleis employed folclyin the fifheries
or coasting trade ; and that tbefe be regula
ted in Hlheir refpeftive voyages confident
with.their fafety and a date of neutrality.
" Resolved, That it is expedient to com
pleat the fortifications of the ports and har
bours of the United States, and effe&ually
to garrison the fame.
H Resolved, That it it expedient to raise
a provisional army, to be employed when
necessary for internal security and defence.
" Resolved, That it is expedient to pro
vide for supplying any deficiency exiding or
arising in the arms and military doretof the
United States.
"And resolved, That the foregoing re
solutions be referred to the committee to
whom was referred the President's message
of the 19th ind. as indruftions to the said
committee to prepare and report bills cor
rrfptmding with the fairt refMutioiis, and in
the fame order in which they dand."
On the refolstion for an Embarg». the Yeasand
Nays in the Senate of the United States, were as
foliow :
YEAS—Meflrs. Anderfan, Bloodworth, Jack
lon, Marshall, Tazewell—
NAYS—Miff. Bingham, Brown,Chipman, Clay
ton, Fofler, Goodhue, Greene, Hillhoufe, Holwrt,
Hunter, Langdon, Latimer, I.aurance,Lloyd, Mar
tin, Paiue, Read, Rols, Sedgwick, Stockton, Tatt
nall, T racy—l
Died, on Saturday lad, at his lodgings
in forth-ftreet,Samuel AiNSWORTH,Efq.
Member of the House of Representatives
from Dublin county. His remains were in
terred yederday evening in Arch-street
grave-yard, attended by the Speakers and
members of the Senate and House of Re
presentatives, together with a number of
members of Congress and other refpe&able j
citizens.
A Gentleman from the Havanna informs
that a short 'time previous to his leaving
that place, the following unfortunate acci
dent happened. ♦
A person who dealt in gunpowder, being
engaged serving out a quantity of that ar
ticle to a customer, (it is supposed with a
lighted fegar in his mouth, a (park from
which mud have dropt into the gunpowder
of which there was more than 1,000 wt.)
the hoafe was blown up in an indant,
with e?ery person in it ; considerable da.
mage was done to the adjoining buildings,
and about twenty persons lod their lives :
two youngladies who were riding in a car
riage by the house at the moment the mif
fortune occurred, were blown into the air,
apd not a vedige of them, their horses, or
carriage, were afterwards to be found.
Friday the6th of April pext is appointed
tobeobferved as a Day of Fading, Humil
iation and Prayer, thonghout the State of
Connefticut.
Thursday the 12th april next, is also ap
pointed as a Day of Fading, &c. though
out the State of N. Hampshire.
COMMUNIC/ITIQH.
When the late message of the President
was fird communicated, it was amusing to
remark the affected budle and rtfentmant of
e certain party, at the fsppreffion of the dis
patches. They pretended to hunger and
third after information, thinking that the
want of it would furnifh a fufficient excuse
for opposition to all defenfive measures, and
they announced their intention of demand
ing the papers from the Executive, presu
ming he would persist to withhold them.
But how hasthuclamour fnbfided since they
have discovered that no opposition is con
templated to their making a requed for these
paper*. Do thty fufpttt that the applica
tion for them would be fuccefsful i Are
they fearful that some of the patriotic band
, will be implicated in a correspondence with
certain of ttcir brother patriots in France,
which would sea' the ruin of themTelves and
their party ? Are they spprehenfive left
such a disclosure fhauld be made of the da*k
and infidions counsels and projects of the
French, and of such a fettle*! scheme to des
troy the liberties of this country, as would
j rouse the indignation and refinance of all
America? Do they expeft to pre-occupy the
public mind with a feir of war, so as to
preclude the natural effe£ls- of such"3 disclo
sure ? Deluded men, how are they impelled
by the pride of opinion to perferere in a sys
tem that will so soon be exploded as incou
ftftent with our national exiltcnce. Either
the liberty and independence of America
must soon vanilh like a vt'fion, or "those who
perfitl in their opposition to onr government
must be rejefted by the fifeople *id r4nked
among fufpefted and dangerous persons. Let
them examine the history of this country
let them eecolle£l that the flame of liberty
once rekindled wilf (Tied upon them " into
lerable day," and their names will dwindle
into infignificance and obfeurity, unless they
speedily embrace the pfefent eccalion, und
swear to join in the defence of their coun
try, "in spite of pride, in erring r^afoa's
Fo fay c< we will not rcfort to wnr, n is al
most as wife as to fay whes one's hoNfe is
in flames, that we will not resort to water ;
it is not quite so wife, because in the last
cafe if one cannot go out of the door, there
is sometimes a chance to jump out of the
window.
From the Majfachufctts Mercury.
Extract from a Journal publilhed in Germa
ny, refpeftitig the ever memorable revo
lution of the 4th September. The c
vents of it are there brought into one
view, and will teach every American more
and more to prize his country and gov
ernment. CIVIS.
" From one revolution to another, consti
tutions to coftftitutions, new laws to new
laws France is arrived at a government
which disregards them all ; which, after
havitig secured the generals by corruption,
the army by its generals, and the Councils
by the army, reigns by force under some va
riable forms of liberty. The people, worn
out with long and afflicting agitations, ap
pear decided to let the powers, which they
havecreated or appeared to create, di'pute
among themselves the right of opprelfing.
The calm, which succeeded the revolution
of 18 Fru&idor, proves it ; the consequen
ces of that memorable day hav« been such
es we might expeft from the debasement of
the Representatives, the despotism of the
Direftors, the lafFitude of the people, and
the apathy of honest men.
Revolutionary Justice, it is true, has fa
crificed the life of one person ; but this aft
was the more junjuft and barbarous, as the
Direftors were certain without it of the sub
mission or flight of the unfortunate vi*timt
of their vengeance. The crouds of emi
grants, who had returned to Paris, seduced
by hope or by want, is diflipated al
most ina moment ; expelled from their coun
try a second ttme, they aIR an<lTeelt fn dlf
tant regions compaflion and an asylum.
Some feeble aflembliesof men inthefouth
of France were dispersed as soon as formed
—only one town, Montauban, openly refill
ed for a month ; the Dire&ory ordered foma
troops thither, and the townfubraitted with
out linking a blow. Thus evaporated the
effervefcence of the South, of which so
much ha! been said ; this is all that the re
sentment of the departments insulted in the
persons of their deputies has produced !
Their eledtions have been vacated—the/r
representatives driven from the Councils ;
they are deprived of their (hare in the ma
king of the laws which th'e constitution pro
mised them ; yet not only do they fuffer
themselves to be governed without murmur
ing, but addresses of congratulation, that
partake of cowardice and guilt, are every
day pre'fented to a mutilated degraded le
gillature. I
Of the proscribed representatives, but
one, Camille Juurdan, has dared to address
his constituents uponjthe tyranny of the Di
redior)- j and his protections meet with,
derifioti from the oppreftors, and indiffer
ence from the oppressed. Those of his col
leagues who have not had the fortune like
him to escape the proscription,—those men
who were little less than the Gods of the
day—the Pichegrus, the Villot3, the Bar
thelemis. are ignominioufly conduced thro
a hundred leagues of country and through
populous towns, and not one attempt is made
to deliver them. They are embarked with
piecipitation for the most savage countries.
Those men, who two months fmce were ca
ressed and enthroned in the opinion of their
countrymen, who are every day more and
more convinced of thefalfity of the folilary
charge allcdged against one of them, are
forgotten 1
But Hoclie, whe flood condemned by
the public voice for having promoted with
equal baseness and insolence the designs of
the Diredtory against the Representatives
of the nation, dies ; and although neither in
the field of honour, nor in consequence of
wounds, as so many genjerals of the Repub
lic have done whose tombs are-unkown, the
Direflory and Councils decree funeral hon
outs such as none of the great men of the
revolution had as yet received; and the Par
ifians, who are arrtufe3 or occupied with
this new pomp, leave the Cbamp-de-Mais
filled with admiration of the hero of the fef»
tival !
The Direftory were not ignorant of the
effeft producedby those displays ef tranfito
ty glory upon susceptible minds, of the re
sources which feftivity in general afford the
masters ox a multitude pafiionately found of
Theatres and (hows : therefore they lose
no occasion of establishing new ones. The
camplaifnt oratuis of were
eager to propose to the Councils a fete in
honour of the day of their victory, and af
ter many fittings spent in idle difcuflion an
annual one was decreed to celebrate* its
triumph.
j What have not the Councils dtme a
; month past to second the views, and itcreafe
, the power of the l)ire£h.ry ! The law upari
i the organization of its guard was inconve
| nient, and it was modified ; that upon
i the nat!onal guards displeased, and a revi
sion was ordered. The Council had depri
ved it of the right of opening the lettcrsof
foreigners, they have reftorcd it ! They
extended itspowerof nominating to places
vacant in the departmental administrations
-The Direftorywere indignant, at notbe
' ing able to eflablifh their power, or cha
stise the bravecolonifts for their refinance
in the I fie of Fiance, and to revenge
the fending away of the Commiflioners ;
not less so when the Councils required to
know what recompense had been made to
vice-admiral Sercy ; whose punifliraent they
now demand, and measures adapted to fab
jeft, or rather to ruin that colony. Finally,
the Direftory being offended, more than
injured, by the law, which the councils two
months previous having passed refpefting
the motions of the troop* deemed necessary
for their security, they are now in haste to
revoke.
It was necessary a!fo to flatter and reward
the army, which had so well seconded the
Direftory ; hence the veil drawn before ma
ny crimes ; hence the new modes prescribed
by military trials.
All the proceedings of the legislative body
are in dire it oJ.-JNjfition to those previous lo the
iSih Frudtidor. The wifeli nu.rihets of the
council of ancients had comhatted a laterefolu
tio.i of the council of five hundred refpeislin&r
divorces as being infirftieient to ae'refl the dre'a 1
ful confeqj. nces of the Jaws heretofore made
refpecUng tl em ; hut fcjrce had the ancients
been purified by the late ordeal of the direflo
ry, than the fame rffolution was approved.
A htimaneNw had recalled i• ito ths unfortu
nate colonic* the i«fngees and banilfced ; but a
new one has just annulled it.
Ihe efetSicMs as St. Domingo had been con
ftaurly rejected ; they are now cenfirmed. What
are we ts expefi Ircim a lenate, whtre the La
vl'Kx k , an I the Satichona*', occupj-the.feats of
the Portsiis', the With
out doubt, Jucb laws as those we have enurucra
ted, or as the law on public debt, or proposition's
like those recent'/ made to the council of five
hundred against the nobles.
The law which reimburses in new paper, or
to speak more corrc&ly, which finks two thirds
of the public debt This law Jiad been already
decided on in the council of aw tents, when
many am rig them opposed it as vnjuft, uncon-
Ritutional and impolitic; when R.iuiTeau had
the courage to fay that the « ft abftlute despot
could scarce believefuch an idea, that it was a
plan illy disguised of the molt Jhameful bank
ruptcy, that it tended to ruin 301/100 families,
in a word that it was worthy only to figure by
preeminence in the code qf a Gtngis-Kban. In
fa<9, it was so viewed even by thole who propo
sed the law, »hen theyjuftified it by necejity to
which recfon must yield j when they coalidered
the sums due by the state to its creditors as of
merely a variable imaginary value, when they
called fa many solemn guarantees given to the
unfortunate creditors indijereet promifet. Thus
neither truth nor arguments could prevent the
ancients from fam£lioning the bankruptcy pro
pped by the five hundred : thus those creditors
who. were warmly attached to che revolutionists
as soon as they had declared the public debt to
be under the " loyalty" of the nation, have fa
tattyfcarnt what *« loyalty" means in the revo
lutionary flyle; and that no means are too de
testable to be nfed to strip them of their proper
ty and lives.
The propofitiqns agair.ll the nables have al
| ready excited in Paris a violent indignation ac
| cording to the malt jacobin journals. It is—
j who would believe ! It is Foultier wha is obli
j ged to (lop, tooppoi'e the five hundred in thefc
J revolutionary measures. The five hundred ae
: cuftomed to the molt tyrannical proceed ng>, as
I the convention were formerly to those of R ;bef-
I pierre, have hiiened to propositions, the idea
' of which would have alarmed that irightful ty
i rant j- they have ordained the printing and dif
j cufiion of''them ; and i- is Foultier who is ne
I celibated to advertise them that they are become
I too docile inflruments in the hinds of their mas
! tersr tn them and to the dire&or?, he has said,
; " be -jflurtd that the prof-.riptions en'niaiTe will
> revolt every mind against you ; multiply emi
, grations, it'ake our Capitals disappear, enrich
foreigners, destroy confidence, commerce, arts
and indhStry, and end with a reaction '.but Jhall
next dejlroy you end yours.." Thelaft is the on
ly conlideration that will intercft those to whom
Faultier addriftes hiinfelf; it is the only one
that remains to be realized. Hut will these pre
dictions diffilide fre.o executing a measure evi
dently dilated by that i'pirit of rapine, fj blen
ded in all revnhrt : nwfcrv rrTf"»f-rt* ? ' , l
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
arrivld, days.
Ship America, Jacobs Tranquelar 15 0
Schr. W■jjh 'mgton, Stiron Nelvbcrn I z
B JSTON, March to.
A Mrs. Dexter, lately in prison, convidled of
13 indi&ments for petit larceny, addrelTeii herfelf ]
to the huma«ity, ot the judgrs of th"; fsperior
court, dating that si e was 8 mcnths advanced in
gravitation, begging ther pumjhment might be
poftponcd, and flie allowad to go to the alms
houfo tilt tha period of he delivery. 'This was
granted. The night after hcf-arrival at the chari
table mansion; file delivered herfelf, —not, ind ed
of any thing of the masculine or feminine gender—
but of the neuter—She delivered herfelf of a !>s b
of ilraw, which she had kept lor some time under
her'cloathcs, leapt tho fences of the alms house
yardi—and completely made her escape. Some
people conceive the Iherifis have betrayed a want
of ikill in this affair.
BALTIMORE, March 26.
Tejlerday arrived the Jhtp Venus, tf this
port, capt. Dajh'iell, in 48 ddys from Gibral
tar ; he failed from Marfeillts the ijl July
la/l,isf on the 1 oth of fetid month tuas tal en by the
Spaniards into Allicattl, where ht remained
Jive months, after his release, blockaded by the
French : He failed from thence the T>d Dee.
and left the fbipi Sarah of Boflon, eapt. HopJ
kins ; Maria of Charlejlon, capt. Kennedy ;
John & Martba, of Newburyport, Knapp ;
brigs Venus of New-Tork, capt. Toulon ; &
Independent of Philadelphia, capt. Robinson,
all in the fame Jituation, wanting the proper
role d'equipage : on his way down theJlreights
put into Algiers, where he weu received with
much friend/hip. The Dey has loj} all pati
ence by the unfortunate delay of the frigate ex
peßed : Mr. Clark, tlx American charges des
affaires, began to fear it might be attended with
dfagree able consequences, as they think of no
thing but the American frigate He failed
from A.'geirs the 13th December, in company
• ' ' 'l
witl jfivc. fa'rl of hlf JfcC.', IcV ui tit
Sfdninrdt ; th-ir ccrijir >'•»<? hrn '/•»
atd nor d-rlai-rd bifort.le fiulcA, 'I tjl 'b. t
the American fl'p PcrtJernrl, ra't.
cA for the Dry : they had j»JI ligW ti drj<
chr.rgt btr cargo, ivhkh prov~d-verj j:;1
fatiif&Sory. 1
J nit before lir f\-7-d from Gibraltar, t!id
ftoip Eagle, of Marblehead, capt. S'<vf ; c,
was brought in -by an. En?liih brig, iin Ii ;*
way to Marseilles ; the fcventh day after h|
left America, loft his bowTprit, fore malt
and maintop-msft, with all tflr fails and rig*
ging belonging thereto, in a severe gajj of
wind —he was immediately rclfa f td an<J
proceeded on his voyage the *7th January,
not being able to repair his (hip, far \taiit
of spar* and rigging.
NEW'THBTATRIi,
Mr. Bernard's Night.
THIS EVENING, March 28,
Will btr presented, a Musical Entei taii.inem, i»|le4
THE ADOPTED CHILD.
End of tie firft piefe,
Will be presented, a celebrated Iragei-'y (q(
ids) called
THE PRODIGAL ;
Or, FATAL EXTRAVAGANCE.
|A« pcrlormed in London, the- two lift feafoci,
with unbounded tipplau.'c.r
Belmour (she Prodigal) mr Fennel!—Courtney, .
inr \Vign<ll—Bargrave, mr Fqv
Louifi, mr- M rry, •
fSetw cn the ad' of tli<- Traordy,
A DRAMATIC VISION ,
Qr, the Court of TLefpit.
By Mr. Ikriiard. -
After which will be prrlormed, anew Pintomim#
B'allit, composed by Mr Byrne, called
THE GENEROUS TAU .
Or, A Stmt in tit fVtfi ludi.i.
Galleon, (wi.h a Hornpipe .in character) Mr,
Francis—The other pj-.neip.il charaAes by nir
Byrne, mr Wgrrfcll, jun mr I WarrdJ,&c.
To which will be udded, a Mufic#! Entertainment,
railed
The AMERICAN IN LONDON,
Freedom (the Am rican) mr Warren Hample,
mr Fox—Bruih, mr hUrwood—l# Servant, mr ,
Barney Boar, mr Bernard.
Mrs Manner*, mrs WarrelU—Mrs Prattle, mrt
0 dni.xon—Mrs Freedom, n»r>L'Ellr»! ge— M>rja
mrsMaifliall. '
Tickets to be had at the tiftal pla«e» and of
Mr. Bernard, corner of Seyeo:h and Chtfwt.ftri,
£3° OnFrldny (not aded these three years) th®
celebrated 1 rage ly, called the ROM \ N FATHER.
—with a '.'omedy, in tWo ails (never psrto nied
here) called THE HONEST THIEVES > o r
F \!TH. ULIRI3HMEN —For the Benefit f Mr!
MOBItTON.
V Mr. Finnim-'i Night will be p*> Moniay
next. '
To be fold at Public Vendue,
On SATURDAY, the 3HI of Much mil. at If
o'clock, arChefnut flreet wharf, lor th? benefit
of the concerned,
Sundriet fatted from the wreck of theflip ?tfyn ¥
9 OKDia—
-5 coils of Cordage
16 bores Window Glafi
» ditto hollow ditto
4$ draw* of rumblers
% pipes of Holland Oiu
rS» -ihee s of Capper
I barrel of new Copper Nailj, No. ifio
Half a keg of old ditto *
6 pair of lower Shrouds
I old Sail
5 Cabbin Windows, with Olaffes
5 ditto with Blinds
1 ir>n hooped Water Caftrs
2 H 'n' oops
1 newPamps with copper or brafschatnbcri
Pump Gcer for ditto
I Anchor, weight ahogt ijoo lb,
1 ditto, about 1600
28 Iheet* of Copper
About two tons and half of Swcdnts bar Iron
1 Iron Knees
CONNELLY iff Co. Aii&hneert,
march 18. j n
~ Proposal, ' "
For Publifbing by Subscript lon,
En qju Ir y
INTO TJIE
or ran of epidemic diseases,
r FHE Letters to Dr. Curria, which I pui,lifted
X bft autumn, led me to an mve'ligation of
the origin and phenomena of peflilKn-ial diseases
in other countries, as well a# in the United St tes,
In the prof.cutioi. of the fubjed, new fajSs and
principles continually opened to my v|.*w. r n d fi
nally determined me to trace tack the hiilpry of
such diseases as far as the records of hiflory ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined the pub.
lie libraries in Ntw-York, Cam-
Boflon, with a view to obtain'a 1 tho
material fails which can illustrate the fubjael.and
' l>ave nearly colledled all the materials for the
propof*cl Wor]£.
The laaseajl fled will enable me to demon.
Urate that many of the common
pefti'.eotial epidemics, are unfounded or extreme
ly iticorreil ; and this in'cotif quence of i.-.edical
writer* confideringan epidemic disease asad.tach.
Ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun*
try ; rather than as conneaed witK other < -ide
j-ics or other phenomena of naturf in various
parts of the world. The fads J have colleifted
lead to certain deductions which are furprifingto
myfelf, and whic*h will probably be new to many
others. Much light will be thrown on titiw dark
«d p rplexing fu'jjca, as well as op pl>U
ophy.
The proposed work will make a full filed o&t),
ve volume j and executed well on fine paper, caa,
not be afforded at lels than two dollar', bound,
with the usual allowance-to book-fellers. A« th*
compilation will cod not only great labor.but con
fidsrable expcnce, no more copies wil) be printed
than to supply fubferibers. Tha book will be rea.
dy for fubferiber? early ii: the coming fumraer, an<{
the holders of proposals will be good enough to
return thefli to No. 49, Pine-ftrect, by the firftof
May.
Subscriptions received by the book-fellers jn
New-York. Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, New-London, Providence, Boflon, B3}*
timore and Charleftov.
NOAH WEBSTER, ,v*,
march 18.
GINS E NG, "
SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. £4, CHESNUT STREET.
Wants to purchase good
gathered in season, ani clear of damage-™
For which a generous price will be given if
delivered any time before the 15th of April,
march 21 i ot
Hylbn and Young Mylon l ea,
• A few cheOs of excellent quality, for faie, cor»
1 ntr of Scccod and Pijje ftrcets. 0) fFor Sale, i
By Elliston John Perot, ier,
Ni 4:, North li r Jter Strut, Con
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and e
quart: r calks, 4 years old and for immediate use.
Inferior do. t
A lew bale* AllibaJ CofTet
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvais, No. 1, to 0
A few bags of Juniper Berries •
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China.
march 3 p,
Wanted,
An a(9 iye, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the business >f the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February '
Notice is hereby given, _
OPHAT application will be made for the renewal
I of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, standing in the name of the Miblcri
ber, No. and dated July 11, 1797-t he fime
having Seen loft. _ . A
JOHN GRAHAM.
march S
~ TO" LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Threeflories high, and in an excellent stand for
b"Ca»f.. Apply to
Thomas & fofbua FtOier, nu
march r. § _No. i. Dock-Hreet^
Wanted to live in the Country,
- About five miles from this city, a sober flea
clay Man who nmlerftands gardening and the
management of a-few acres ol land, ani wou d
not ofci 'ift to sttend a cpuple of hours. Such
a one may meet with liberal wages by applying
at the office.of this Gazette.
N. B. N' re need apply but those of unex- T
ceptionahle char aiders. -a
March 13.
Custom House, f«
P'tfiriH of PENNSYLVANIA, March 6th, I 797» J
THF. MERCHANTS of PHILADEI.PHIA,
whomay have any account or knowledge of _
the capture or detention of any Blip or vessel, »"■
go, cr other property, belonging to eitizens of the t
United States, rcfiding within this diftriit. by c*
uiidcr the authority of foreign nations, f-.:ce the
firft day«f Oflobcr, 1792, arepavticylarly reqreC
ted to give io .information thereof, to the Co.h'C
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as Toon as may
be convenient ; C{*ci£y»*»g tlie name of the vcifrl, £
tht captain's narne, the number ot .ton?, the cui- w
raiue oi the vefiel, if condemnid, the efii- jj
KV.td value of her c*rgo, 0 r other property, whig
th -r carried, and fcy, or under the authority of c
wbat naf-Wn captured, with such obfervation-s as j
may be thought ncceflary upon the j
of each cafe, in order that Aatements thereof may j
be tr rfmitted to the Secretaiy of freafury,
ia required to lay the fame before to * Senate
ar.d Ho use of Rcprefeutatives of the United States.
march 7. f| -'^
W A N T E Br (
A Gardener—a Single ■ j
Nsne ceed'apply, unkfs he can bring good re
catftmcniJstior.fi.
inquire No f . 3® Mirket-ftreeu
n,drcK J?.
1 FOR SALE, ""
By WHARTON LEWIS, \
No Yi 5 South Froct Street. ]
A of Taiwirx's Oii,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
iW and id proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Tch. 9. fodtf
"Valuable Property for Sale.
FOli SALE,
THAT well ltnown Ellate, called SHREWS
-1 BURY FARM, formerly the refidencc of
General John €adwalader, situate on SafTaftas Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout lyoo.acrrs of prime LAND, upwardsof 500
of -which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
•ce'lcrit, and ccnfift of a hsndfome Dwelling House,
tyio large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ees of two story buildings for Negroes (one ®f
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a smoal,
house, ic. &c—'The whole EBate heiug nearly
furronndad by water, it vquints but little Fencing,
bndhTis a good Shad and Herringfifhciy. It is
conveniently fi(Jited for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets with two land.ngs on =.navi
galle r'.vir luf a fhi.rt fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on j
she piemifujj also. a variety of excellent fruits of .
different kinds. The foil is molily a rich loom.— <
The whole will bs fold together, cr divided into <
tnaller faKms (for which 'he buildings are conven
iently fitu-jtcd) as may suit the puuhafcr. The
Stcck on said Farm, confifling ot Horses, Cattlo,
Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of. For further
particulars apply to Gxorge Hastings, on the
premises, or totbefubferiher. in Pkiladelrhis.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 14. zawfiw
Bafkenridge —for sale
IT confifls of 910 acres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the rcfidcnce of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Earthy thetiverPufaiek.
Th r«* are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
\\ s very convenient ore and_a fmallcxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 1500 fin»bearing engraf
cd Apple Trees—and there is on othtr pirtsoffai j
trail uear 300 other Apple Trees—as also a grcsi
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bell and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tress that add to ths beauty and conveni
ence cf the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
From »hc towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Mcrrie-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
ts wooded and w atcred.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of th« deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 1. g °dtf
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Mosday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Srve* Dollars, at Wu. BLACKEURN's I.ottcry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flrtet—
Tickets m the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7n
Dollar,, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the C-ity of Walhing
ton, No. ll.and Patttrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe bad in mcft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law m any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. Tbe b«finefsof a Baoictß, inl.uyingaod
fellir." all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
dilcoiating Bills ar.J Nctes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houfet, &e.&c. will be duly amended to,
by Wla. BLAtKBURN.
November JJ. $
rH S t!ra nf Co- r ,rtr.erNp,between the fob
taVu "
are ewneftly requclicd to maW payment to, with- j
out delay. HN MIL LER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER. a
February 19 ——— ' hf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from the
Calcutta, fu F
ANO SO* SAL» BY THE SC'»SC*IB«, '
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 d«. Ginger r ;
30 bales low priced piece Goods. .
John Miller, Jun.
march J —— J"
- FOR SALE, b*
John Miller, jun. ]
No. !, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOOD^,
—AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrahs ed
r,!,., Sannas VI
Guzzenas Tanda Coffaes tw
Guzzies Emerc.cs col
nit,,, cloths Ciltc.es . tin
Palampoors R ° m aH Handker'h'eft
Amongst them are a great proportion of the m fai
nufailures of Patßa. foi
British Dry Goods, pu
,n !
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum. w.
February 19 P r
1 an
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into partucrft.p under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFOS.M their friends in town and country , that
*th v have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Sffcet, Philaddfhia ; where _
they now have, and intend keeepingfi general al
fmjtment of Mia, Gntotx, Irijb, Fund and Bn
tijb Msiinfiiflurepfot sale, on advantageous termt
for calhorafhort creait. J
February 19 _____ ———■ G]
~ FOR SALEr B(
bit No. at, Penn-ftreet,
The Carof the Ship Ganges, qv
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
CoiUJling of _ j-,
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
CoflH«9 Punjura Cloths m
Sinahs Guzzey do. K
Humhumi Charconna Dorea
SlweCl.th Tanjibs *'■
Chinti and Calicoes MulrfluU
| Mamoodys Checks
| Maharagonges * Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul.de. "
Guzzenas IVandannoes
Gurtiha Siflerfoy 6
Pinirfcoes Cboppa Komals
Salgatchyt Sooly do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col. _
Mock Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR 1
9 » r oo lb. PEPPER,
Willings & Francis. /
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges aire now open to Sale at that
tommo4>dus store the north weft corner of
Market and Founh-ftreers. *
Also—A few Bales of Madrafz Hkfs. ofele- j
gant patterns and best colours.
February
I'refli Teas.
J tip Imported, in the /hip Delaware, _
Captain Cooper, from Canton, (
And For Sale, by (
} SAMUEL HOWELL, j
At his Compting Houf<-\ No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, j
AND BY
0 SAM. E. HOWELL,
At bis Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
• Bohea,Souchong,Hyson, Young
y Hyson, Hyson Skin, aHd Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
r China Ware, affortcd; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
' while-bone flicks.
They have also F»r Sale,
j Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
' French Cambricks and' Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
re . march 8 - i_
>n j To-morrow will be Landed,
: From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
1 Jones, from Bordeaux,
h! : Claret of superior quality,' viz.
he j MEDOC "> Of the vint-ayesof 1790 *nd 1791,
10, LATOUk j •>- in cases
icr ALSO,
he WHITE WINE, of the vintage of I "90
TOR SALF. BY
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Co.
march 7. §
_ _ JUST RECEIVED)
FROM ro R T-A «-P RI» CE,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICEIIS,
"e no hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
ico barrels do.
TOO bags do
n S no hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
J 40 hoglheads of Molasses
f 4 bale" of Cotton
3 ' t hogsheads of Cocoa
a WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS,
, 1„ Penn-ftreet.
march it, §
md Landing From on board the (hip
™" Tenneflee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SALK by the Subscribers,
_?t 325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platilias
ere 100 uo Creas
tn- 5Z do. do. Ala Morlaix
100 do. Dowlas
:et. 10 do. red striped A rabias
tfo. blue Guingas
I. ~ I QQ_dozen bordered fiaudkcrchiefs
• Eric & Lewis Bollmann,
sth i»3, South Third-street.
, at ALSO, ON HAND,
cry A cafe of printed Mußins and Calicoes
t— march 12. }Bt
ross b 5 slmson7
ng" HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
the a quantify ef Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Led Jamaica,
ic», S'. Vincents, > RUM.
of and Brxgal J
to, 300 eafks RICE, and
A parcel of fbip baildiug RED CEDAR.
OA. 17. 6
City |
i (aid commiflwners, for clfAH.i fc m
flr n-ft^ C No I -From the north fide of Vine *
S
:
T , C»5 c .U'ilM"'sp™""" An !
tab fide of C«l.r «•'«■ >° * "">" i
~ ~ ' "S «"£ jj
rtSSK s S5S;"««. -Tf
IT J rh fircct to Dixfy and Deliav-n, in !>affairas- Ab ,
House and Lots, /« Bor dent own. An
T"0 BE SOI.D, a handsome two story House,
T with the Lot on which , .
erl about the middle of the beautiful and healthy v
Village of "Jordcntown. The house .. forty d
two feu in from, and m neat onjetv Ihc a
contain 1 one acre, asd is one hu * drC fJ C /°* d
the main ft ret t, and extends with the fame w ,
breadth to hack (Ireet. Alio, a ,arge Lo , . f
raining nearly four acre- fron he
formerly back street. Oneth.rd onlv of th« Ap
purchase money will Le required upon exfcu- p
fn°- a deed, and for the remainder, such credit j
wll be give* as the purchsfer may chuft. Th.s
property will be fold tree of all incumbrance.,
and an ir.difputablc title given.
For further particulars enquire either ol L>r. (
William Burnts, refilling in Burdentown, near j
the premises, who will % An
PETER THOMSON, ,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulborry-ftreet. ,
— Boston Glass Manufactory.
TiJIE citizens of the United State, arc hereby '
informed, that the minufaaure of Window
Glass is new commenced'at the Glass House in
It is needleCs to £»y any thing of the excellent
quality of theßofl-n Glass, as it >sfo well known
throughout the United States to be in every res
). c a greatly superior to any ever imported from
'TI-U be cat to any size commonly used ; and At
may be confiantly had by applying to Claries F.
Kufftr, at theGlaft House. M ..
Orders from the distant Statestobe addrefTed to
Mr. Saaufi Gere, Court-ftrcet, Boston.
$y- Two or thre* good Glafcmakers are want
ed at the above works; such as can producele
comaundationi for good behavior, maybe lure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, at j
the works. ft'en without families will he pre- j
ferred. However unacquainted with themeth®d j
of r- iking Crown Window Glass, they will meet A
with the fame encouragement.
Botlon. January t6 *' —aawftw
New-Tori, February, 1798. A
GEORGE FORMAN,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New a nil Valuable Work, which has been ex
taut only fix months—entitled "
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY against
all the Religions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the fectet meetings of Free
. Masons, Ulaminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lcdtd lrt>m good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. h. _ a
T/BBtr y Natural rbityopby, tnd Secretary tt lie
Koyal Satiety of Edinburgh.
Nam iua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
qfjfl THIS work will be put to press as soon as
' 400 fuhferibers are obtained, and no money roquk
ed until the work is csmpleted—lt shall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fu- 0
perior quality, which will comprifa about 400 p
t, pages neat oflavo, handsomely boHnd and Uttered t l
—the price will be one dollar sad fifty cents.
Those who procure i» fubferibers, and become
, accountable, shall have a 13th gratis—and the un
T l'ual allowance to boykfellers. r
3 f
*„* The above work comes from tbepen of J. t
Robifon, of Eflinborough, a gentleman in high (
e " estimation in the literary world—the fa&s therein
" n recorded are well fubtlantiated, and the reasoning
IS ' and arguments thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well a? to in- .
ftruiSt. A scene of villainy is developed by the
;s ' author fufficieat to appal the flduteft heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret fociet j»s is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illuftratsd, and the hazard of every
deviation trem the straight path of religion and
of virtue, incontellibly proved both to the politi-
Z. cian and the chriftiau by ftubbora and incontrp
-11, vertable f»6U.
Sulfttipt'nns tttlcn in by (*. Forman, j\ r D. 46,
William-Jireet, oppojite the Pvji- Office, and by the refpec
t'me bootfeellers in New-York and Philadelphia.
February 18.
Netv-Tork, January 14, 1798
__ PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
« Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Pofterity 3
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Mini'ler of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
Thefefcarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be coraprifeel in 1
vols. o<Slavo, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly boutid
5 and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
; ume---one third of the Subscription money tobe
"P paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Frintcr6, Bookfelltrs, and others, who
las "quire ?uE>fcriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
£s* Subfcriptiens are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookflores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner < f Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor of" the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
t. A 8 f ion as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
It Feb. 20. eodim
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
no FOR 1 V acres of land on the Oil York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under go»d igncc,
and in excellent order as paQurc ground.
For further infrjination and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott CurssON, at his office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-flrect.
J a<i mo. s6tb. lawzw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCj' t, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
fthr Ail of Cenerefs passed on the ftxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
IN pursuance 0 „ An A ; a yi n g duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and i'aper and the
"'rv'"'ffd c'n th» fifteenth day of Decsmber, one thousand ftven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
Ait p p o 'ipone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A& enti
"l 'j D A"n l'ayin" Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and l'riper", that from and alter the
r ft ! ' f Tuly enfainj, the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Status. ?
- very (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which shall bt
° r „ e L.ntcd any or either of the inftrumenti or writings,ollowing—to wit ;
written or printer -r y n/j CtJ MU
An* Certificate of Naturalization, - " 5
A • Licence to pra<sUce,or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment orregiflryof
•anvComii'eUw, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proaor, in asy Court of the
that a Ctrtificjte in any one of the Courts of the United States
tor one of the said l lfucei, fiiall so far as relates to the payment of the
bc a fu ® c icnt a " thc ou ' ts of thc United
States' for cich and every of the faiil offices.
Afi drant or Letters Patent, under the leal or authority of the United States
"f except for lauds granted lor military fervicts) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept lor lands granted for military lervice<)_ - - a
Anv Charter-Party, Dottcmry, or Uefpondentia Bond, - - I
4 n v Receipt or difchargc foror on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Avill or s
' iher leftamentary inflruinent, or for ar.y share or p;rt of a perfor.al estate di
vided bv for. Eot any statute of diftr'rbuti.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren orJpramd Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Him-
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
faall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - 50
And for every further funi of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of j (
Any Policy of Insurance or infirament in nature thereof, on any ship, veltel or
1 roods insured from one diflrifl to another in the United States, _ 15
From thc United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made fiiall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - x
Apv Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular state, - 50
Any Bond, billfingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiff ry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrafl, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
ufcrefpeflively, - - " " *
If ibove twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 1 i S
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, " " . * . 75
Prtviaed, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes fliall be fubjetft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaitj— rvizi' - ■' 1
If sboVt twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - .4
If aboveone hundred dollars ahd nqt exceeding fife hundredl dolUi s, 10
If above li«a hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand doUrs, 10
If above one thousand dollars, " " " " 3°
Any Notes iffutd bv the banks now eftiblifhcd, or that may hereafter be eftab
lifted within the' United States, other that: the notes of such of the (aid Banks
as (ball aeree to an annual compofitioß, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeflively, according to
the following scale. - - " 6
On all notes not exceediKg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes abovs fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, "*,.<* " 1 1
On all nctes above five hundred doiUrs, - - »
Arty Protest or other Notarial aft, - " ". . r " n ~r J - !
Anv Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain orfell
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - " ' . . * ,
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or dunes, for left than
five hundred dollars, - - - " ' *
' . For flve l.undred dollars an<3 not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For mote than two thousand dollars, - - 1 3
' Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diflria to another diftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State, -
If from the Unite<! States to any fioreign port or place, - 2J
' Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effe-fls, made in any
c*fe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
.rent or taxes, aiifl goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
A.,.. P.rlilifjJritjjto-lBJ"? InPranrf Cnmpajly.,. *>£ 1 Ol T» 1" KanV
' the United States, or of any State or other Bank, "
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - ' " 2 S
s If under twenty dollars, at the rate often cents for one hundred dollars.
n.
The dutiesaforei-aid will be colle&ed and received by the Supcrvifors, Ir.fpeaors aud other Officers
- of Infpefiion, in the several Diftrias, Surveye and Divisions of the United Ktates, and by such other
= persons as (hall from t« time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Dillna. f«r
d that purpose. /
e The Supervifers of the several Diftrias will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a« soon 11
i- niav be praaicable, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thc Did duties; (Jr
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of thc United States, be ol
f. tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, lufp*&or, Officer of Infpeaios,
h or other narlca appoiated for the dillribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids.
u ™ GIVEN under my Haud, at PRtiMptii
or the day and year, abouementuned.
"OLIVER WOLCOTT,
,e Mareb 10. Secretary of the TreaJurj.
Mareb 10.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any dcmaads against
tTiu eflate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly ; and those who are indebted
to the fa«ie, art desired to make immediate
paymeutrio
' T . ? Mminiftr' r
No. 45, So. 1 hird-ureet. )
January 4.
Just Hubliihed,
And to be had at the Book-stores of MefTrs. Dob
sonj Campbell, Young and Ormkodj
in Philndelphia t
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting ©r Bilious
Fevers.
To ivhicb is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&iccof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interelling fa«sV.s and rtfle&ions relative to
the Synochus lsleroides x or Yellow Fever, which
ha? occasioned so rnufh diflref* arid mortality,
at different periods, in several of the feapoit
towns of th# United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fe'ow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyfjcians,
and Member of the American Philolophic4 So
ciaty. Feb.
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Grtund ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftretts, fronting the State-
Ilcufe square. This lot is filty-one leet front
on Walnut ftrcet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an halFon Fifth street j there are at
prelVrt jii o fmalltjyo story brick houses, and a
number ef/onall tenements thereon.
Also, for Sa>e,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. lituate on
Water street, between Mulberry and Ssiufras
Streets, containing in fronton Water firect fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eafi
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
louth thirteen feet fix iachis. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing cn the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation sot a a merchant, flour fadtor, or others
who may have occafioa for storage of goods.
This propeity will be fold on very re;, foil able
, terms for cash. for further information apply
to the printer,
July 31. m&wtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# hii buli
nefi, offers this Eftite lor sale, on moderalS
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
| Mill, with two pair ol stones; also a good Forge, all
in prricit repair,asare allthe Water Works connefli
ed with these various branches. 1 lie Air Furnaces
were lately built (or the purpose of calling Cannun
for this Sute. —'t here ire abou' two thouWd »c+«s
of Land, one half of which ijuuder wood, ibebthtr
very fine arable Land, producing the belt Kay and
Patturc. The Cannon lately manofaSarcd thrre,
tully proves the excellency of the me'a!, which ii
luperior to any in this country, aad equal
to any in the world ; for not one o/ (ixty-ni: c Rtru
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branchct
manufafture,and a place of aim* lying inthefisie
of Conneaicut.and o'lly 30 miles from several land'
ingson the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can relult from a pl-nty of water mrr.ng
from a large natural pond, verv near ihe Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety ot otnet
ufeful purposes'. The purchaf'i can beaccommodat.
Ed with all theftock and ntenfils, and have polHtion
onar beicre the firU ot Jur.encxi, and prepaiMtico
mavbe madein thc meanMme tor going into Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in "ood order, with f(H*e coal, Ore, Ac. &c For
terms, anply 10 Mr |ofeph Anthony, m Phi.ade I
phi.; David Brooks, 1 q. one of the Reprefentauvci
in Congrcfs lor this State; fix, D:frid Y.'aUrmjn, pi
the premises, or tothe proprietor; . New-York.
v WILLIAM NEU.SOXy
Dee. .. 3 3v/l '
A 0 r / C E.
A ManufaSery of y'lloiv and delft u'arc,
Such as never was in thifc Country before, has
been lately erefted at Tivofi, Red Hook Landing
oiilhe Eall
York, where any article of various forts a'-d (nape*
may be executed, as well- as earrlierr. (V:>ves *
new conltruaion, that ftvr« thiee fourths «l the «
ca3lmor.lv used in call ire>n flt*es 01 Open chvmni".
they ate. besides very wholeforae and ornamental, y
J. mouchet,
Wanted a (killful hand lo attend to tht brkin*?«®
gif ting part of the laid w,-e. Generous app«"'-
menrs will be given. Apply aseb 'Ve,_or to
DAVID BROOKS, Elq.
No. 7 1 South 51b St-eet.
Feb, 19- '
Wavted, to Hire,
jx Large and convtiiiteiit HOiISE, in or r'l-*
the centre of tb« city—for which a generU"
rent will begiven; tor be taken (or a year, 0. 0
i more for a longer t«m. l lliquireof th«
oa. 17. **