O / '
litlitets Daily Advertiser,
. , % ;' k ■' * - •-* srii
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Cfcfnut Sfreet.
-—— . ■ _
Isumbem 1924-] PHILADELPHIA FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 16, (798. [Volume XIV ~
C/* The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcri
btrs rejiding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional', for enclojing and directing;
and imlefs fomeperfon in this city will (
become answerable for the fubfcrip- ,
tion, it mu/i be paid Six Months in j
:advance.
Ijlw ■» 1 1 ' 1 1 r «■'=
For SALE or CHAR TER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Philadelphia built, well found
and fitted, and may be ready
\o. receive a'cargo in a Few da ye—(he is pierced
guni>, and mounts 11 new fix pounders, with
ftirall arms in proportion.
THE SHIP 1
DIANA,
Burthen 1, too barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
•olaand cedar, is pierced for four
teen guns, rnd mounts ten new four ponmlers,
With small arms in proportioh.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
* Burthen 1.3C0 barrels of Flour,
New-Ehgland built, has lately
teen completely fitted, aad may be ready for lea
in a few days.
For terrts apply to
NIC KLIN S3* GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
en loardfundry vejfels at M/wcrs-Hooz,
11,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine fait I
1,100 bushels of coals
»86 crates of queens ware aflorte'4
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks 1
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black Ho.
15 barrels Spanish brown do. ,
35 boxes of pipes
I 9 T brown } HAVANA SUGARS
3,500ib5. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
to bales of fail eanvafs
379 fheetsof copper, assorted from 48 by 14
to 60 by 48 incites
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guss 4$ feet, each 1
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each I
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks 1
3 trunks muslins aad shawls
14 cases muflinets, dimities and ghighams
18 cherts coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
I 1 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whit* and coloured caflimeres
English nails assorted.
Oilober 17. fri.&fat. tf.
For Sale.
THE Subscriber, intending <0 decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the (
whole Stock of 1
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &•„.
The (hqp is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
ently known for the extensive buGnefs core in the
wholesale and retail line ; the situation squal to
aoy in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Sesond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will best suit the purchaser.
Th» terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
Wlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fail*
well, and in complete order forche lumber bufiaefs.
All persons indebted to the late firm
GoUtlnuait ll? Baldwin, IV. B. Goldtbwak, GWtf
tbwait 55" Metre, of the fubferiher, are earnestly
requested to make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
august 3 §_
Ship Brokers.
This Eftablifhnicnt, commenced by the late Mr,
•Samuel Smith, will he continued by
Row Js* Simmons,
WHO refpe&fully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Matters of vessels; that n»
yaina er exertions (hall be wanting to give general
■fatisfaiftiou. This business will be conduced at their
Stare, No. 1 07, Sopth Water Street, new to the
jCnttom Houf*.
O&ober 17 dtf
Wanted to Charter, ]
for Baltimore,
A Small Vessel,
■jSStSshES-FROM four to five hundred barrels
bvrien. PSTER BLISHT.
Whose Counting House
has opened, as this day.
Nov. iiw
For Sale, cr Charter.
MOUNTING fourteen 6 poun- I
ders, coppered and fails remarkably faft—burthen
about iooo barrels.
FOR TERMS APPLY TO
WMings is" Francis.
Fcnn Street,
aevember f dlw
FOR SALE,
TI,E Si " IP i
■ PERSEVERANCE,
Jamts William/on, majler.
I Just arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, f live Oak and Cedar, copper (hrath
ed in London, burthen 31-' row- mountiag 16
guns and may be pretared for te* in a few d» r*t h
With her Cargo,
Now on Boardj
CONSISTING OF ,
151 Hagfheads and 50 barrels Sugar '
160,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds'. bbls 1
4nd bags &
31 Puncheons of Jamaica Rura.
Also, 3
, Tie BRIG
, JACK)
WILLiAMsoS, Majler. '
FROM St. Domingo, with her cargo, confining of t
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
- LIKEWISE,
' AMIABLE matilda,
MOUNTING It Guns, burthen
a two thousand two huuired barrels of
Ffour, akd in sompleat order.—Apply to
Thomas fcf John Ketland.
» november 13
r
For London,
Captiin Daniel M'PaeasoN,
WILL be ready to take her car
go On board by the 15th inft.—For terms apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
~«THO HAVK FOR SALE,
Superior Teneriffe Wine,
In quarter casks.
Bengal Sugar, 6rft quality, in bexes and bags.
A few bales of Muslins,
Rice in Tierces,
And a small cargo of St. Mania's SALT.
November 9 dtf
For Sale or Charter,
COMMERCE, J
"**^33iviSSa Jobn Wood, majler.
This ship is burthen as perregifler 23c Tons,
will be fold on moderate terms or take freight
for Europe orthe Weft-Indies.
Apply to the Captain on board at Latimer's
Wharf, or WILIINGS FRANCIS.
FOR SALE,
On board J, aid Ship,
i6Tons of Liverpool house Coal.
nor xf diw
Ellistqn John Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Street,
I Muscovado Sugar Bandana Handkfr:biefc
Copper in sheets& nails p,j <i( j e j ra Wine
Copper Ore Soal Leather and
i ac A few barrels Shad aiid
i Oznabrigs* Herri "« S
I Also For Sale,
ths sioor
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 tons--Berrnu
4a buift, fails remarkably faft and is well found.
nov 8 w&fjw
» For Savannah, (Georgia.)
FAST SAILING COPPERED SHIT
» Vrffinr R jchard West, Mailer,
1 TO fail in tea days.—For freight or paflage ap
a ly to STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Street.
I WHO HAS,
X4O Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
a quanty of
j Sail Canvass
And a bo* of Mace, for file.
November 6 eo6t
FOR SALE,
AS she arrived from sea—She is a remarkably
faft failing veffef built of Cedar and live Oak,
and completely armed. yAMES YARD.
nov 10 d* w
For Sale, or Charter.
I * THE SHIP
' J O S E P HU S,
' H. KenSiby, Majler,
" NOW lyiog at Dough*y'« wharf,
Burthen about Two Thousand Barrels, is in com.
pleat order, and ready to receive a cargo.
Tor terms apply to
JOHN CRAI G,
No. la, Dock treet
november J 4 5
8 ISRAEL PLEASANTS Co.
No 74, South Seeand street,
Have returnedfrom the country ; and have for
SALE, as ufval, «large ajfortment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported i* the last vefTels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally suited to the pref««t and ap
p roach ing feafen
They are d<termin«d to fell off very low for
• eafh or short credit.
1 Note. All persons indebted to th« late firm of
Samuel Pltaftnit ts* Sent, art desired to make im
mediate payment to tho fubferibers.
Jfrael Plea/ants tsf Co.
No*. » d4w
IMPO II T E D
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR' SALE,
AT »EAIO»AIt* men AXD 0« A LIBERAL
1 caaeiT, iy .
PRATT tf KINTZING, 1
1 N0.95, North Waterftfcet:
1 2«5 bales & boxes Ficklcnburghs,
henapen linens and oznabrigs from iff to
2/ per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
1 40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bagl
20 do. strong do. do. for cotton do.
30 cherts platil las I do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
30 do. creas ala Morlaix 4 do. Fail-tv/me
11 do. eflopaillts I do. watches
15 do. Bielefield linen 14 pipes Port wme
90 do. patterbornes 91 cases claret
45 do Brittanias 130 do fine long corked
I do. Holland canvass claret
I do. Ruflia do. 1600 bushels fine la't '
3 do. Russia sheetings 40 casks of roll brimflone
I do. ravens duck 100 casks of naval stores.
a do. Ruflia drillens 50 logs primo mahogany
1 do. brown holland 4 hhds. coffee mills
2 do. Silesia ronans 6 bundles German flcel
) I ds.Wahrendrop linen 10 chests of slates and
f 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
I do. Flemish linens A package of skates
I do. cambricks and A. do. wooltn caps, &c.
lawns 4 chests of Nurenberg
I do diaper toys
14 do. stripes 40 kegs of yellow ochre Ii
18 do. checks ' 3 hhds. Glue C
1 do. fiamois 8 barrels cf Lentilles E
I do. Arabia stripe 5 chetts of prime red ii
1 «10. hunting for color> craft Holland cheefi L
I pack a. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers }
y l dw. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and g
6 bales empty bags foal leather C
1 chtft hair ribband 300 boxes window glafa
3 boxes tapes, assorted 800 Demijohns
2 da. bobbin, afTorted 50 boxes ghfs tumblers
I box threads & tapes assorted
1 do. fine blue liftados % hhds. pumice stone
5 chests men's flippers 1 box of mill saws
3 do bed ticks I calk of cutlery
1 casts hog's bristles A quantity of stone jugs
6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills At f«w ships anchors, &c.
November 12 tu&ftf
.. . »
Imported
In the brig Eliza, capt. Peterfon,from
Leghorn,
A SMALL tyjANTITY or TBI FALLOWING A»-
, TICLES,
t Bologna crape
Cambricks assorted
. Silk flocking!
Fans
a few fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets &«. &c. manufaAured at
Lucca
Pots and flicks of pomatum
Wash-balls, &e.
a few jars Gorgona anch -ivies
a flnall afTortment of ®rugs, &e.
And in the Louisa, capt. Kean,from
Bordeaux,
80 cases, containing 1 dozen each,
Old Irish Claret,
of a superior quality,
40 dozen old Sauturne Wine,
1 of a superior quality.
FOR SALE BT \
James Latimer, jr.
i nov. 10 eodiw
Thomas iff Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, Doci-Strbst,
HAVE FOR SALE,
IMPORTXD IN DIFFERENT VBSStLJ,
A general ajfortment of
Coarse and fine Woolens,
P
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens, Shae'iugs, Tickens i&c.
Scarlet and Cloth colored Cardinals
Hats in boxes of t» dozen each
China, Nankeen Dining fe:ts and cups & saucers
Black Lutestrings, Taffatys and Sattins
. Pungem Cloths and Humhums, Blue and Red ,
Cotton, ChappaU and Pullicat Uomallt
China and English Umbrellas
r. Crowley Millington Steel
Tin in Boxes 1-3 x 1
Shot, Frying Pans and Wee ling Hom
6d, Bd, iod, nd Nails, Ctfr. tsfc. '
nth month 8 diw
The Subscribers '
Have received by the late European arrivals, the .
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on confignmtnt, which
they offer by packngs to Wholesale Store Keepers,
or others, on very advantageous terms, for cash,
y approi ed notes, or bills of exchange on London.
' Medford is 3 Willis,
No. 78, North Front Straet.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
shawls
Muslins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
Balafore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and sundry haberdashery
Seotch.and colored threads
f Scarlet cloth cardinals
' Durahts and calamancoes
Worsted, cotton and fancy hosiery
Felt, caflor and beaver hats
Yorkshire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings and duffills
Caflimeres and fwanfdowns
. Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Welsh flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons
Worsted and mohair plushes
r Pewter, assorted in small casks
Spades, shovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
100 casks nails assorted.
I nov 11
TO BE LET
r And immediate pojfejflion given,
,f \ LARGE convenient, wkil finifhed house,
i. J\ No. »15, High street, lately occupied by
Do&or Wiflar, with coach house and flables——
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF.
No. 168, High street.
Nor. ». dtf
HUDSON fcf YORKE, I
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HW& JU T RECEIVED, ]\
Per the last arrivals from F.urope,
A VERY COMPLETE AsSORTMEf/r OF L
DR Y GOO DS, C
Which they will tUfpofe of on rerJo&Me terms,
»«OS«ir WHICH MCI ~ .r
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
Elastic and fancy do.
Calliunercs, plains, dufiils
Rose and stripe blankets well assorted in small -
bales
Furniture chinties, cottons and dimcties
Callimancoes, cimblets, durants, moreetii, and
joans
Muslins of all kinds H
Velvets, vclverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant afTortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels ..
Red and green bucking and welsh '
An invoice cutlery aud hardware
Cottonades, shawls, printed handkerchiefs
7-8 4 4 *i-8 checks
9-8 & 5-4 cotton stripes
Cotton, worsted and silk hosiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, &c. See. • A
nov. 9. dißt
Imported, £
AND FOR SALE BY
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
N®. 9, South Water Stkekt,
A gy.iNrnroF *
Surinam Cotton and Coffee. ®
Irish linens, in whole and half boxes w
Checks '
Drogheua linen y
Irish hackled Flax p,
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
ALSO A rARCEL O*
Men's and Women's Cembi assorted.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hogsheads of prime Aux-Cayes
MOLASSES. j
it mo nth daw
For Sale,
60 Boxes White
143 do Brown do > SUGAR
48 hhds. do do j _
Which are now Landing atChefiiut-ftrect
Wharf, from on board the Brig George.
» Also for Sale,
100 hhds. of Prime Coffee,
Old Madeira Wine of the firft quality
Carolina Indigo
Coarse Eafi India Sugar*
Window Glass
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs, &
A quantity of India Muslins & Chintzes,
John Craig j
No. 12 Bockjlreet. 0
Bcrr 14 $ ■ t
FOR SALE, T
By FrsHBouRN Wharton,
at No. i»8 South Fourtb-Jlreet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
Teas
Boglipores
Lutestrings, fs"
Silk Shawls.
nov 13 odtf
FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tierces. 1
Sfi wines -
Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to r
N. y. Frazier, c
No. 95, So. Front Street* S
november 13 3taw3w a
t
John Dobbin, [
BOOT & SHOEMAKER. s
RESPECTFULLY informs hie Friends and
the Public in general that he carries on his j
bofinefs at No 99 South Second-jlreet, nearly op- j
pofitt the Merchwts Coffee house wh»re gen- j
tlemen may be supplied in the neatest and best
manner—hesffures :hoft who may please to fa- <
vor him with their command* that no attention
01- exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encourag: ment.
N. B. Orders received will be punctually aC- j
tended to. ,
november 5 } ,
FOR SALE, ~ \
AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in
French, entitled a Htftpry of
The Administration of the French
Finances,
DURING THE TEAR 1796. I
Also, An Historical aad Political View of the j
Administration of the French Republic, during
the year 1797, —ef the causes which produc- 1
£ d the
Revolution of the 4th September—
And of the rcfults of that Revolution.
PRICE I DOLLAR EACH.
These two political trails, are from the pen
of the celebrated d'lvernois,and contain a thou- ,
sand irterefting disclosures of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the different Usurpers who
have reigned in France (luring the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution now pending in that
miserable and depraved country.
Nov. 3. §
Whereas the certificate of two
scares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
_ No 3182, issued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were ,
forwarded froin Loudon by the British packet
Cocintefs, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
• French; and the farfl certificate loft; and for the
1 renewal of which, application is made at said
" Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDPLE.
Phila. Oil, »6, IJ9B. eo6w
Jamaica & Poi t-aii-Prlnce") Enih.Wf
Sugars > to J.aw
Madeira Wines 3 ijci
New-England Rum
Ground Ginger, arid
Tanner's OU,
l»OK -BY ■ V «j
Wharton Lcrvis'i
no. fouth Front
| noT ' U djt »f ttwtf
John J. PAHRY~
CLOCK {s* WATCHMAKER,
HAS a£tiin opened at his usual Stand, No. 38,
South Secondflreet—where he has for tale,
A VARIETY OF *
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,' ■
AND A PEW
Eight Day Cclocks,
j Which <will be warranted to give fitisfaßior..
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch work, done 101 th
particular attention as heretofore.
An Apprentice wanted.
November 11 mJiV&ftfv.
Horl'es to Winter.
HORSES wilib« taken in M winter at P»o
---ipict Hiit/at the tj M'iU Stone, on the'
Bristol road ; they wili he writ fed with
and timothy hay, well litteterf and cloned, and
will also have a Large field to exercise themfcivea
in when the weather is good Enquire of Mr.
William B;U, merchant, Watet l\r»ct, or on th«
prtmifes.
»"*• 7 wf-tf '
To Be Let,
And immediate pfftjfwn Given,
\ COMMODIOUSThrceSiory Brick House
-TV with convenient back building?, situated
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
streets.—For terms apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. jo, South Fourth Street.
Odlobtr »9 dtf -
t To be Let,
AND POSSESSION GIVE N
OH THE I4TH APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the pofiefibn of Samuel Richara'et.
Apply at this Office.
novamher If §
To Ship Owners.
BY the decease of three of the deputy Salt
memfurers, there ares feyeral half.buthels
and strikes, and all the coal-tubs miffing. If any
ol the merchants have any of these measures in
. their (tores, it will oblige the h<ad me«furer to
receive information of them, at no. 81, south
Third street.
nor. 14 djt
JUST ARRIVED,
From Bourdeaux,
And for Sale by the Subftriber,
60 Boxes Frelh Haifins
118 doaen Ladies long Gloves
116 ditto ditto (hort ditto
ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
and Black Lace.
WILLIAM LYNCH.
No 8, Penn-ftreet )
november 10. ) diot
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has
for a few years pad been in the fouihern States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and niylelf.and by that means has defrauded
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
- them by an exhibition of letters aud papers with the
nsmes affixed of divers public charaii i s and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shaeffer; to one of these papers 1 find my name
d fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
is villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
1 have to request the printers of Nev#fpapers in the
United States to publith this f«r the hen«fii?of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MfiREOITH,
Treafurtr of tb: United States*
1 " Trenton, New Jerfey,~)
n October 24, 1798. j
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
gamft the estate of Will,am Perkins, dece. fad,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requested to furnifli their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
- are r.-qjefted to make payment to the fubfcribcr in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oilobcr tilt, 1798.
in 1 ■ f
Ship C3 5 Injur an ce Broker,
jj' Subfcriber, encouraged Dy the advice of
-L his friends, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. Hepropof
e« to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
f,e ing thereto—alhft masters of vtffels and others
,g in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
c . procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the Deceflary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign linguages translated, and in
n. formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
:n ful to those who please to favor h;in w.th their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
•y Philrdelphia, august 14th, 1798. S
110 ' f
e * 1 A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, undfrftanda
accounts andean be well recommended,
_ wants a Sitaation as Clerk or Affidant in a
r Q Wholesale Store, or Coimtiiig-houfe. Apnli
, cation to be made at this Office.
. r nnv '4 §
:r e ALL PERSONS,
;et T-T A VINO demreds againit the Eflate of
■ or II Hehky SCHAFfIR, deceased, late ofthe
he City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeeper
he are requested to jurniih their accounts properly
Jd authenticated and all persons indebted to fj J
t0 Estate are desired to make speedy payment to
CASPAR W. HAINP.S, *) . .
FREDERICK GAUL, j rat in.
tith mo. J3 fiawjwPOST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, <)th Nov. 1798.
The Poft-Office will be re
fcoved to its ufiial place, No. 34, South
Front-ftrect, ori Saturday the 10th inft.
it 1 a o'clock noon, and on Monday
Vndrnihg the letter carriers will begin to
deliver, in their diftri&s, as formerly.
JitJl Imported,
A quantity of falt-pctre, refined
Gun powder F and double fealcd battle
Caniiou, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burcon Beer
MultarJ squares, 4 ounces
Heft Durham muflard
Ginghams, fubjcA to drawback
All of which WiH be WW on migrate terms by
H&NRY DAViES,junr.
• No. fouth Second ftreit.oppofite the
city taVern.
Nov. o mw&ftf
■t Dobbin & Roberts,
TATLORS,
RESPECTFULLY inform the.rCuQonieri, and
tlieTubiic in gentr&l, that they have remo
ved from No. 114, Ckefont Street, to
No; 30, South Fourth Street;
Where orders in their Hne will be thankfully re
ceived ind diligently att*n<J£d to.
n»-*f.r.hi'r T c mw&T.iw
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflate of Docfor
Francis Bow*« Sayre, deceased, are re
oueftsd to make immediate payment —and thole
hiving d-!rand<againft the faij Eftste, are delirdd
to ptcduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, ? Administratrix.
Robert Heyfham, 5 Admiriiftrator.
November 15 daw
Smith & Rodman,
No. 45, South Front ftrect,
Havcjufl receivedper the William PenD, and
Jauc,fr6m Loudon, Diana and Thomas
from Liverpool, 2nd Kingston,
from Hull,
• A LARGE & GENERAL ASSORTMENT Of
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH AK£
Plain, twill'd and striped Crapes
Coatings |Plaiu& striped Wildbores
Fine white and red Wetfb Worsted.Yarn & Cotton
FUu>'cl» Hole
Do. yellow and fcatlet do. Men and Boy. Woollen
Superfine and low price. , .. n
, . t, . , . ,i.T.k „f 7-8 bleach d Infh Dow-
J-4, c-4, .7-4, clothsoi ' )af
all colors 3.4 brown liifh Linen
_ and Halfthiek. 3 | whuc snd blowo i r .
-HF«eft and Hunter Cloths y i(h sheel ;
Greetl and Red Drapery Flax( . n & T<lW 0 M»-
Ba:ze burgh in balct
Do. and 7-4, do Drog'atda ££ Irifti Silefias
Red iSc green B jcking do. ~-8 and yard-wide Jr;(l»
Swanfiowns & l'oilanett* Lioenj
Role, Point Mid Duffil! Printed Callicocs&Chin-
Blankets t*ei
Superfine London Cafli- Printed Linen and bor-'j
tnijresof the ucweft and dei'd Handkerchiefs I"
ntoft fajhionable colors Cotton& '.allicoe Checks fj
Low priced Yorkthire do. Thread «eW « Laces j
mancoes Holland Tapes£# Bobbins I
Joan Spinnings &Durants Thjclcfeu a £ Corduroy,
KaUul.tt. & Shalloons HuWing and |ancy Col 4 s
Norwich Camblets, 'or Vt | set , and Velvetteenj
Cloaks Black and olive Cotton-
Bombazetts and Black jdj, .
Wiih a variety of other Articles cyi hand, for;
sale oil the most reifonable term# for cash
or the usual credit.
Nov 6 t».th»fa,tf
Samuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Price, , 1
No- 31 Chemiut street,
Art now opening a very extensiVe ajfortment of
DRT GOODS,
Suitable to the prtfent fcafon,
Which they have just received per
Ships Faflor, Boyne, Otfego & Independence,
(via New Tort) from LONDON,
Alio, per (hips William Peon & Amiable from
London,and Blips Sally aed Thomas from ,
Liverpool,
IVhicb they will fell on very low ternu for
eq/b or approved notrt, viz.
Common autl fuperfine 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
cloths licoet
Plain & fancy coatings 7-8 common and chintz
i'lain and tiripad caffi- furnitures
mere» A very large quantity of .
.Swasfdowns cLintza <
Rose and dufißll blmnketaPurple and chintz fiiawli ;
Red and ytllow flannels Linen and lawn pocket I
' fine Welch flannels 1 andkerchiefs
Carpets and carpeting |CameU' hair lhawla
Jeannetts & tabby cords a very large aflortraent of
Velveteens & velveretts ribbonds
Thilkfetts Britifcylain checked,ftri-
C.allimancoes, duranta & pad and tambour'd muf
jear g tins of all descriptions
£ilk, cotton, and worsted volorud borderedfhawls,
hose » g'" l *r'«ty
Cotton, callico®, * tirifk:s-4 and 6-4 conjertrams
checks and betulleea
5.4 and 7-B,d»wlafs lins
D*ma(h tabic linen Lace» and edgings
4-4 and 6- 4. lh«ting» Black and patent lacc .
Irilh liners Lace viils and figured
Ginghams cloaks
Bandannoei Pulongs and fattini
A very large quantity of Persians and farfancfc
Silk modes
And a variety of other articles.
Nov. 3 [i.jm
Notice is hereby Given,
TH A.T appHcition will be made it the Trea
fory of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Si* per Cents,
funded debt —Handing in the name of Robert
tt'lljca of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of th« honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading to the East-In
die», which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New
York. Doll J. Ctl.
No ic,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
1793, one certificate for 173} 33
' No Keg office 17th Dec.
i7oi» one ceitificate for 19 59 50
Ellijfon ts* John Perot.
no* 1.1 eod6w
TO BE RENTED,
( And immediate pqfrjion given,)
A LARGE thre. fto.-y JJRICK HOUSE,
situate in Walnist-ftreef—-Tlie rooms are
ft»mmod»ous,airy and private—from which.and
its central pofitisn, it is thought to be an eligi- :
He situation for a Public Office. For terms, en
quire of BENJ. H r . MORRIS. <
A\fo, A cotnmodfous Ware Houle, in Tay
lor's Alley. 1
O&obcr >9. 3tawiw
: " . ' '.V .•
ALL PERSONS, •
Having cijft.'o apainii the hSTATS OF
SUSJNJ*Mff LOCKraR, dcceafed, are j
** requellen t present ihcir rcfpeisive accounts to .
Nathan a. smith,! ' Aaing
;:j JOHN DORSET, 3 Execm^
r ' A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
0 ' Lately occupitrd hv Suf wnnb Lockver, together
mfob THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to l>c diJpof«d of Time will be given for •
the Utter on un-excep'iionable feeurity.
C> THE OFFICE ~
OF the Committee appointed to lu
perintend the building of the Frigate, is
again opened at No. 95, South Front
Street, tirhifcre attendance will be given
to receive tlic fubferiptions of those gen
tleman who have notyet made payments.
november 12 dtf
%* The Public are informed that the
j Alderman's Court of this City, will re
j. new their fittings on Thursday neitt the
15th of November inft. at teri O'clock
in the forenoon at the City-Hall as usual.
nov 9 it
f CT The OFFICE
of the Board of Commissioners, under
,r the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
■ e See. with Great Britain, is returned to
d No. 129 Mulberry street.
Nov. 12.
Uriiverfity of Penn/ylvania,
Nov. 13, 1798.
The Medical LsAures, in the University,
will aflually commence on Monday, the 26th
of this month.
The Insurance Office of
SHOEMAKER & BERRETT,
is again opened at no. 19 north Water street—At
tendance will also be given at their room at the,
Ceffec-houfy ? ■ ufaal, from t» 'till a o'clock
11 mo : d6t
University of Penn/ylvania.
s ■ Nov 8, 1798.
1 THE different Sckools will be opened on
Thursday the 15th instant. By order,
' W_ m. ROGERS, Sec'y. '
The Custom House is re
moved from Chester to the City, and
■ is again opened at the usual place.
November $ §
Horses to Winter.
HOR c ES taken into Wiri'er at Peel Hall
Farm, two miles fenm the City on the
. Wiffahickon road.The terras may bo known at
No ii, North Third-street.
nov i» end lot
.J wanted,
, j A PAIR OF CARR'AGE HORSES,
(BI,\CK wohW h« preferred.) Apply'at No.
| I*4> Spruce street, between Third and Fourth
1 streets.
1 i -Bovmr.ber i» jt
"j BALLAST.
AQU NTITY to h** of, if applied for
immediately, On hoard the Ship LouiU, lvi«g
• t Mr.,-HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard.
November 4
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN,
[ WHO understands Cooking, and Housework
generally. Fnqifire at No. 109, . Walnut street.
November is eo6t
r Mrs. SCOTT
Informs her Friends in tlx City, and likeivife
tbofe <u>bo JIUI remain in the Country, that Jhe
bus returned home with her Family, to No. 1,
Carter's Alley.
Nov. 10 co^t.
" TO RENT, :
A convenient HOUSE, about
twenty feet front with b?ck buildings—coruer of
Third and Cherry ftraets. Enquire of
J. HALLO WELL,
no. so, Walnut-street.
10. «diw
NOTICE,
ALL Persons having claims upon the Estate
of James Thorburn, Stonecutter, deceas
ed, are desired to pfe/ient them for payment— '
1 and those indebted to pay their refpeittive bil
: lances to <
Benjamin IV. Mo frit, admmiflrator.
f nov T 4 33Wjw
NOTICE. ~
SAMUEL fe.tCHAR.DET, informs the Gentle
men Subfcribcrs, that tht EXCHANGE
is opened for thf-ir vecep.ion ; and th- CITY
• TAVERN, for' Gentlemen and Travelers
Last Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
s Chambers to the fide building, which makes it
perfectly convenient.
- november 6 taw
I To Lety ' '
THE houle, No. 78, North Se
cond street, with or without a (lore and liable—
The house is large and convenient ; enquire of I
John Litle, Ko. 40, North Gxth tlreet.
Oflobjr 31. wfcfa tf
Printing A^ork,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
I At the Office of the GAitTTE of the
. UnitedStatks,
1 OA- 13- dtf.
p Canal Lottery, No. 11.
■ Will re-commence drawing in the course of
the present month.
"I 'ICKETS to be had Eight Dollars each, at
1 WILLIAM BLACKBUKN's Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where check books ire kept for registering aid
summation of TrtkeW in the above, City of
Wafcington and Pattcrfon Lotteiies, ice.
Statu Whiili /
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
S ve 4,Oct ao,ooo
I w * 4,000
4. wo ».«««> a,OOO 1
, Ten JCO s , co „
Twcnty-leven to o J)400 .
I With a full proportion of the one hundred
. ?nd of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is '
. more than two thirds drawn and above 13,000 '
dollars richer than at the commencement.
Note, the business of a Broker duly 3t ]
tended to in all iu branches. i
nov 9 »»w
i
> <l^——i—■<——l—H——
F I Fr6:A 4kk Norfolk Heaazd.
e '
° ! ~
| McfT. Willett & O'Connor.
r - j Gentlemen,
AS many of your subscribers flill doubt
of the arrival of Buonaparte at Alexandria,
■ r I think you cannot do better than publish
the enclosed ex t raft from a late London pa
-11 ' per, and also th>paragtaph from alatenum-
I ber of the United States Gazette, for by
- comparing them you will find that general
i Serurrier was swallowed by a Crocodile, on
- the 19th June, and that he was in the U
-5 nited States on or about the 19th Oftobtr.
. Your doing so will at oncfc convince the
greated fctptSc of Buonaparte's arrival, and
n farther (which is of great confeattenee to
" tjie Virginia Philosopher) it determines th«
fwiftnefs of the Crocodile, for r.o doubt
the Frenchman put her to the greatest spied.
How the citizen general fared upon the paf
e sage I cannot conceive-—except by his so
- long being in the French army of Italy, he
e might have learned to lay the young under
contribution—bat that he was on the banks
of the Nile it certain, and that he is now
'• here is as certain, if we can believe the
newspapers. These Frenchmen are devils,
MelT. Printers, and should it be a fa&. that
r general Serrurier Las got to this country by
such a strange conveyance, we may then ex
' pest by our nrxt arrivals from India, to
0 heart that Buonaparte's array (except the
1200 that did not embark, or rather were
not swallowed by the Crocodile*) is fafe ar
rived at Mangalore. And, pray gentle
' men, what i« the afe of a navy in a cafe of
this kind ? Ws mud get a fleet of Allega
» tors from the Southern States, or we are
1 ruined. CERTAIN.
Buonaparte's Expedition.
ExtraS of a letter from an English gentleman
' in tie army v.nder the commend of Gen Bu
onaparte.
Alixansim, jvnt M.
" Hung be the Heavens with black, yield day to
n'ght.
, " Comets importing change of times and (tales,
" Brandith yoor cryttal tresses in the (Vies
, " And with them fcoorge'the bad revolting ftari
" That have confeurd to the Hero's death "
Hisry V«
| " Alas !my dear friend, the Hero of It
aly, the Piscijuator of Eurtpe, tie Conqueror
of Lo i, the Terror of Emperors, Pope/ and
■Kings, the Founder of Republics, the man—
Who wai railed the meteor of the world,
1 Hung in fix {kjcl, and blazing as be travelled."
| the great Buonaparte is no more consign
ed to the merciless jaws of a cruel Crocodile.
" As well as my anguilh and tears will
permit, I (hall briefly relate to yon this
tragical event. Having taken peffeifion of
the city of Alexandria, the general proceed
-1 ed haitily to fortify the harbor. Some dif
turbances arose, which were fomented by'a
Turkish Pacha with three tails, all of which
byway of punidimetir, the general ordered
r to be cut off. The unfortunate man indeed
r had a fourth which he earnestly entreated
to have spared, but Buonaparte, who ne
ver approved of half meafurcs, ordered that
also to.be cleared away.
" All necessary preparations being made,
the army confiding of 18,000 men, took the
dirtiliot) of Aleppo, marching in good or
der along the banks of the Nile. General
Serrurier, who fat out the day before, Was
' cotfiderably forward with the advanced
guard when Buonaparte began his march,
which was rapid, but exceedingly fatiguing
from the exceflivc heat of tie weather. On
the approach of night we found ourfelvta in
a fine plain, on the banks ot the river Nile,
but in some places rather fwaiapy. Here
the army halted for the night, and Buona
parte, as pious as iEneas himfelf, determi
ned to omit no religious duties, ordered the j
foldfers to sing the Marfelleis Hymn five
timet in honor of the Direftory, and Ca Ira
twice in honor of the two councils; after '
| which they danced the Carmagnole, and lay
down to reft.
" While the others were asleep, I pro
ceeded to an adjoining eminence with my
telcfcopes, in order to make some observa
tions upon jSyrius. At firft I perceived that I
the dog appeared to wear a surly afpeft,
when on a sudden his countenance shewed a
: wonderful degree of brightness, and " mira
bilediaum!" he seemed to wag his tail.
After gazing for some time with astonish
| ment at this strange pheenomenon, I turned
Bty eyes towards the river, and beheld issu
ing from its banks, and marching direftly
for the Republican camp, an army of at lealt
12,000 alligators. I would immediately
have cried out, but—
•• Obttupyi, (Uteruntque ; torn*, et vo« faucibus
hxGt.'f
" The devouring moofters ptpJued the'r
march with regularity and silence, furroutid
ed the lleeping camp, and immediately pro
ceeded to fatisfy their abominably voracious
appetites with the flefh and blood of true-
Republicans. Judge, my dear friend, of
my horror and delpair, when I saw a croco
dile, at lea ft 40 feet in length, enter the tent
of the Hf r«i of Italy, and how much stronger
were my feelings when I perceived the mon
ster come out with Buonaparte in his jaws,
having already devoured the whole of his
Aides de-camp. I knew the General by
the boots in which he slept, and ray heart
was tortured on hearing his cries, while the
amphibious moriftcr;—
" Vifceribus miferorum, gi linguine vefcitur atro."
1 " Mandertt, et icpido tremerent lub dentibus artus."
" The gallant Berthier was seized by j
another of these monsters, »r,d the fearlefs r
Maflena plunging into his enormous throat |
to relieve and bring out his friend, the vora
cious crocodile swallowed them both down t
like an oyjler. (
"Nt fueh wai the fate of. the valiant 1
general Victor j for while he was in the jwa.s ]
of an aligator, which extended them at the t
fame time to fwellow a chajfeur, the latter 1
■ fixed his carbine iUiidjng between the two
jaws, whjcli the monster being unable to
Ihut, the General walked out without the
ftnalleft injury, except that his fa(h was mod
foully daubed with the gore of former vic
tims.
*? Peifufus fanic viitas, atxcquC vcieno.'*
" At length, tfie remainder of the camp
h being routed, a furious cannonade took place
1. upon the crocodi es, who at length took re
i- fuge in the river, having already feafted on
y the flower 0/ the army of the Nile.
al " Reduced to the number of 1200, we
n are now returned to Alexandria, and any
r. mode of returning to Europe we fhou'd re
r. ceive with tranfporls."
ie ______—_
0 FOREIGN ARTICLES.
11 BELFAST, September 11.
f" It i» rumoured that a French armament ,
• 0 having 1200 troops oi» board, have been ta- |
. ken, and carried into Galway.
r Yeflerday afternoon an express arrived
from Lsrne to the Hosorablp C- iikrfEng-
v ton mentioning that four large (hips and five l
e brigs were seen off that coast. In confe- j
quence of the intelligence, the different re- f
gimewts in town received orders to be in rta- j
dinefs at a moment's warning.
D DUBLIN, September 13.
C Extraß of a letter from Granard, Sept, 12ih
containing some further account of the a3i n
iviilh took place there between the Yeoman
£ ty and the Rebels on the sth in/lant.
♦« On the evening of tlie 4th instant, in- j
e formation was received that the Rebels were
collecting in this neighbourhood in great «
force, and had committed dreadful depreda- ;
tions en the property of the inhabitants in j
this vicinity ; this was fooa authenticated [
by unfortunate families flying from all fides
' into, the town, aid taking refuge in the (
barracks. r
" Tne Rebels at this time marched to
Edgeworftown and ditarmed a party of the t
Maftrim Cavalry, commanded by Captain r
Bond. On the morning of the sth inlt. in- a
f ormation being received that they were ad- c
vancing towards this town, the garrison, t
confiding of flie Granard and Bailymacue c
Cavsjlry, detachments of the Cavan, Ballin- {
temple, and' Kilmore Infantry, under the
command of Capt. Cottingham, and the (
Ballymacue Infantry, under the command f
of Capt. Palla*, marched out to meet them. n
" They appeared within a mije of the j
town iii great force 5 upwards of 4,000,
" armed with mufquets and pikes, command v
j ed by Alexander Defii don, Lieutenant in {,
Captain Bond's corps of cavalry, Mr. Hans t
1 Deniflon, Mr. O'Connell, and Mr. Miles f
O'Reilly, all of this neighborhood ; they
' were drawn out in line of battle, opposed t
to our handful, and firft, as er a few vollies ■]
1 were exchanged, their flanks filed off, in- u
tending to surround us ; at the fame time a
the centre division marched forward, driv
ing before them above 200 head of cattle.
1 This obliged us for a moment to re treat,
which was effected in good order, until we
reached the Moat, a high eminence com
manding the town, when a hot and well ®
directed fire was kept up, which soon ob- v
: liged them to break and fly in all direftions ; Ij
the cavalry then charged and completed
their deftru&iou .} while the centre diviflon |
1 was attackingthe Moat, the flanks advanced
to assail the barrack, but the fire from the
1 walls and temporary bastions that were late- a
ly erefted, foo.n obliged them to retreat.
1 " The (laughter was immense—about
1 150 were left dead on the field, and the
corpses of feveial others have been found
: fiqce in the corn fields. O'Connel, one of
their captains, was killed, as also Farrel,
one of captain Bond's cavalry, who fell in
his uniform. The garrison confided of
174 infantry, and 5© cavalry, without a
' regular soldier, or any cannon.'-' P
r
Extract of a letter from an ofjiecr of the Kerry "
militia, to his friend in Dublin, dated at
Balli .amuck camp, September 10, J798. g
" Since I left you in Limerick my time n
has been so totally engrofled, that I had
, neither Leisure nor opportunity of fuffiiting
1 my promise 6f writing. Siuce our retreat
from the county Mayo, we have never "been
two nights in one place; and the wildest J
parts of or coirnty afford tnoxe com • 0
fort than any part of Connaught where our
operations have been in. Since we joined
general Lake, on the 4th, at Ballyh&de- jv
rerr, and got upon the line of road the T\
French retreated, we have purfutd them e ,
with a eonitancy perhaps not paralleled, d
through-fonr counties, viz. Mayo, Sligo, c.
Lritrim, Rofcommon, and into Longford f;
—the enemy well mounted and light, and
we carrying all our baggage. ] Our hard- h
(hips mcreafed in the pwfuit, never having tl
pitched a tent, but resting on our arms un- w
der the canopy of Heavc-n, and trusting lo
the casual and scanty supply that fields of „
such a wretched country could afford, our a]
rations and commissary always in the rear. j r
Previous t» our coming up with the enemy, «.
we marched from beyond Ballingtogher, at w
three o'clock on Friday morning, to Bal- : r
linamuck, by ten on Saturday, and almost „
without reft.
•' I could perceive the great body of the si
rebtls waiting the event on a diftam hill out w
of Ihot, though were killed in c
brench unifojttis fighting in the ranks si
i his body fled into a bog where our cavalry [,
could not pursue them, and were at t"0 j
great a didance for our infantry, already b
jaded, to overtake them •, many were driven t j
O iOid Cornwallis's army, and were taken t j
pnfoners.
V\ e expeft orders this Jav or to (,
row to march iuto winter quarters « and this f,
a ) WC art °^ r beloved general, ([
whom every soldier adores aud refpedts.— t |
rardon my being diffufe—but 1 conOdcr n
the Bth of September a proud day to c\ery ~
loyal Irifhrnao," 1 ,
*3
I
gkw JForefc*
i ™ r " a «,«. '
NEW.TORK, Noremb^.
tn our Gazette yefferdnv
ip count of an action between Sir # Zlr "" **•
ce < he French Admiral Br uv .. • L e, f° n > W
«- ranean. The prqiaU'L ' th . e Mediter.
3 " fi* en gthened by the follLlL £,„■ """" "
Pans pipers. If ,/ Jere has tleß,on * from
vc W ™Wd>iv e cannot doubt V "'X"&***,
»y. great degree offagacity, to'J/T""
c- terminalej. & f s Jo<lu *t har
TV CM d„ C,b;„« of '"'r;
ssss?*®
i
*
scent of the Freocb fn Ir*]* J 1! ?
>" of Houdevflle at St. Dom 1
,e inclu iingr the takino- nf M ' w,t hout
e- un K \ aR,n g °* Malta, and we st a ll
be able ,o decide whether she K
, r rf ' raf °"» ofihr J. 3. tf
te"" f 'J*
my, while t)is own house is it, flam* -c
hue vemes, et non R«^«arnpli„ t .» Th£
I far «>alt thou go and no farther.
it « de " L °' X a [ tbe f3mr day f avß
! that t . h ' S event, which'
n 1S blft '?° certa,n > wili make every hope of
d P eace PP ear ?we have (bong reason.to
, 3 e '" t ' T " ! le of the war."
1 tie following we'extrad from the Chro
oiquel "'verfelle, as it appears to (late some
new circumflances*:
e . " Thou gh there is nothing to discredit
the newe of the misfortune which the squad
™ * 3 ? nwe! Knives has fufFered, we are
- assured that no dispatches have yet been re
- ceived from Vice-Admiral ViH eßC uve , that
' th's officer himfelf is at Malta, with a (hip
of the line and a frigate ; and that another
lhip of the line put into Cerfou.
! . " a PP"rs that only part ofthe squadron
c stared in the combat, and it may be easily
supposed hoAv unfavourable such an engage.
'• mera mud have been, especially in a road
e head.
'» " There is reason to hope that cur lofi
'• will not be found so great as thefirft reporti
II have (lated. We are at least certain, that
s the Britilh squadron, though of fupertor
s force, has not escaped without great damage.
■' ' RJver Thames was fcarceever known
to be fuller of (hipping than at this time.
6 The Weft.lndiaaien and American (hips are
" uncommonly numerous. The American*
e are the only foreign (hips permitted to com#
' into the Pool.
' BELFAST, September it.
The following persons have been difchar
lj ged from the Poftlethwaite prison (hip, ha
ving found security to transport themselves
to America : Charles Develin, John Service,
J Triftrim Moore, JohnCaldwell, Hugh Boyd
n James Wallace, (Hollywood) John Qninn,
i Samuel Boner. Alexander CUndlnnan, Wil
e liam Lowry, James Hamilton William Shaw
and David Shaw.
t Admiralty-Office, September 22.
e Copy of a letter from the Right Honorable
j Admiral Earl of St. Vincent, K. B. to
f Evan Nepean, E/q. dated'Ville de Paris,
before Cadiz, 20th August, 1798.
j gallant and obstinate aiftion, fought by his
a Majesty s sloop L'Efpoir, of fourteen fu
pounders, against a Liguarian Pirate of ve
ry superior force, which refit&s such lustre
upon his Majiifty'sarms that too much can.
y not be said in priJfi of it.
' Ihe h.fs of Mr. SouUby. the Master, is
greatly to be lamented, as he was a very pro
e nailing young man.
1 His MajcHy'tJloopL'Efpoire, Gibraltar,
' lOlh rtugull, *7OB.
t My Lord,
1 I must have the honor to acquaint your
' I.ordlliip, that having under my cha ge part
ofthe Qran convoy, on the .iboyt
J five P. M. I difoovered a large (hip seem
' fleering to cut off the convoy, or far
" Malaga, Cape Wind > ill bearing .V. E. by
: N. four or five leagues. If she proved an
1 ; enemy I saw the preservation of the convoy
> depended uj'on my opposing her.j I ther«-
> fsre hauled out from them, and made all.
1 fait tutmet her. A little before seven P,
' M. perceiving her to be a man ef war, and
■ hove to, 10 receive me. I hoiffed our colours,
I that we might knew each other, being then
within muflcet-fhot ; <he did not think
1 proper to display her's ; but when we came
f upon her weather quarter, bailed, whiah I
r answered. He then ordered me, in a very
• 1 imperious manner, and in good English, to,
> " go to leeward of him, and strike, or he
t would fmk me," firing one lhot into u*, and
• inllanlly after his whole broadside, which
we rtti.rned, and continued a very heavy
fire of great guns and small arms on both
: fides, till about 3. quarters pad ten P. M.
f whe/i we bad the fatisfaAion to hear him
1 call out for quarters, " begging us not Jo
■ fire any more ; he was a Genoese-" I told
f him vie were a British man of war. and or
-1 dered him to inwer all his fails and come on
' board ofme, but ha paid no further at ten
-1 tion, and kept (hooting up to gain a (una
-1 tion to rake us We brought our broad fide
to bear, and, thinking his force too great
- to be trifled with, gave it to liim witn its
> full effr<ft, and he mtumed it ; but on our
> (hooting a-head, and tacking to give hist
■ the other, he again cried out, " begging iw
r not to fire again, that he was badly wound
ed, but would obey my orders immediate-.
iy," and pn his lowering Uis f ? i|, a n firingceased about eleven P. M. Tiie veffet is t
called the Ligtrn'a, Don Se Orfu, '
Commander, a Dutch frigate fold to the ®
Genoese, ■and mounting twelve eighteen ' t
pounders, four twelve pounders, tefi fix a
pounder , twelve long wall pieces, and four !
swivels, with 120 men on board, of all na- 1
' r
tions.
It would give me infinite pleasure if I (
could close this, without having to inform t
your L'irdfhip, that in the firft hour of the s
aflion I loft my matter, Mr. Soulfby; a loss
I fek more severely, for he was brave with
the greatefl coolness, and ls,new his duty
well I had fix men wounded, two badly ; |
the Ligurian had seven killed and fourteen I
wounded, among theni the boatswain was '•
killed, and the firft captain very dangerously 1
wounded.
No panegyric of mine can do juftict to
either warrant-ofßcers or men ; for the great
disparity between the veffets shews, that had
it not been for their spirited exertions, we
mult have fallen a facrifice to these pirates,
or whatever else they may be.
The service is much indebted to the spi
rited condu& of Captain i)rown, of the 28th
regiment who happened to be on board, by
his animation, infpirinjr all around, and by
his attention to the guns j not would I do
jultice f.I did qot beg leave in the strongest
terms, to lecommend to your Lordfhip'y
notice, Mr. Hemphill, the purser; who,
with my leave, came up from below, where
he was ftatbned, ai d by his aifiduity in at
tending the guns, saved me much, as after
the loss of the matter, mv attention was more
particularly required ill manoeuvring the
.helm and fails.
I have 'he honor to be, &c.
LOFTUS OTWAY BLAND.
[How would the spirits of the Dorias,
could they revilit this theatre of Gallic
phrenzy, growl indignation at the degene- -
racy of these their despicable defendants. '
But, it is natural en#ugh : thus does dege
neracy and disgrace every where follow the !
footfteps of French frateraizalien )—thus
does her embrace, like the lewd touch of
the profane harpies, or the foul :ncanta
tioh of a wizzard, fhrivtl up every where the j
Jouls of the fubjefted The Genoese, while I
they were free, were renowned for enter- !
prize, for bravery, and the mod obstinate
contlancy and fortitude; but no sooner
does the Gallic pestilence extend its blight
ing breath to them, than they decline m
every national, every manly virtue, and be
come like their matters, unfit for any avoca
tion but one common to wolves and fvgers,
that of preying on the spoils, and devouring
the carcases of tbofe wh n) they find around
them wifcr and happier than themselves
In ho. orab'e quarrels they are wholly impo- •
tent and enervate; a British bomb-boat
bears away their stoutest frigate > and in
the field, one soldier of the faithful, one man
armed in ajuftcaufe, wears to them too
terrible an afpedt to be Loked upo;,.J
BERLIN, September 4.
The latest letters fr»m Conftantinnple state,
that the Porte had received official accounts of
a tignal vifloryover the trccps of general Buo
napart* near Cairo, in which some thaufands of
the Trench wefeTHJlßTand two thousand made
prilbneis.
LONDON, September 15. 1
This morning the Hamburg mail due on Wed
nesday last reached town. It brings intelligence (
of a very important nature —Atf a. tide t'rotn ]
Berlin, olthedaieof th( 4th inftant,Hates that
official advices had reached Conflantineple, of
Buonaparte's army having been defeated n«ar
Grand Cairo, with an immense loss. '
1 his intci igence comts likewil'e in private lej- 1
ters received by the Mail of thii morning, both
from Hamburgh and Cruxhaven, of so late a
date a» the 9th instant, and is mentioned ia the
mofl confident terms.
Letters from Italy of the »Brh ult. slate that
admiral Ne'fon, after having taken in provifiona
and water, had tailed from Syracrufem the be
ginning tf the month The admiral's fleet had '
been increaled to zz fail of the line, by the junc- I
of four Britilh from Cadiz and the Portu- 1
guel'e squadron. I
From Milan we learn that the king of Naples
"ill continues his warlike preparations with ac- ,
tivity. The article fr im that place, also Dates
the probability of a revolution in the Ligurian '
republic, Cmiiar to that of the 18th Fruflidor in I
France, t
One o'clock, P. M. .
Siace our paper was put to press, with the
foregoing intelligence, we have been able to as- l
certain in a great degreeits authenticity —lt was
conveyed to Berlin by the Prussian minister at t
Conllaminople, to whom it was officially com- t
ratmicated by the Turkilh minister. J
Buonaparte's force eonfifted of about 15,000 £
men. An army of go, 000 Arabs had aflembled,
a circureftanee that, in our opinion, fufficiently -
accounts for the immense flaughterofthe French' 1
Orders likewil'e had been lent from the Grand £
Seignoi to the different officers and chiefs, to d
fight to the last extremity in repelling theFreuch. t
Letters were received this morning from on J
/board the hpmeward bound Weft-India fleet, 0
dated at sea on the 17th of August, at which
time they were all well. By these letters it ap- ®
pears that the John Bull, Goodall, one of the h
convoy, had captured a vtflel, having general v
Pichegru on board, who, with Barthelemi, and S
fcveral of the banilhed deputies (as we ftatcd in ti
our paper of the Bth instant) had made their a
escape from Cayenne. General Pichegru, after f ,
his captuie by the John 8111, had been put on J
b».ird L'Amiable, the cammodore's Ihip, on i
board of vrhich he is now on his paffai;e to En- *-
gland. ti
u
LONDON GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, C
Whiuhall, September 14, 1798. it
A Di'fpatch. of which the following is a copy, t<
his been received this morning from his Excellency e i
the lord lieutenant of Ireland byhisGrace the Duke
of Portland, one of his Majesty's Principal Secre- P,
tarits of State. tr
Camp near St Johnllown, c:
September 8,1798. E
MV LOR Ok, te
When 1 wrote to your Grace on the sth, I had
eVery reason to ie)icve, Irom the eneisy's move
ments to Drumahain, that it wa» their intention to
march to the north ; and it was Batural te fuppolr as
tSa t they might hope that a French force would of
get IMO some ofriie hays in that part of the coun- nr
try, without a futcour of which kind, every point
o! direflion lor their march leemcd equally def
pcrate "
1 received, however, very 'jarly in the morning ha
the 7th, accounts Irom i-isi.t. Gen. i.ake, that
s J er M T* 8 * t;o thf!r *» and ;«
, f that, he hail r xtoh ro bciievc that i; w?.s their b)
e ,em ®»* «« g» to Boyle. «r. Carrick on Shannon ;pi r
n cwfequcpcool V hu:,l the mj(ch of th ft
wo«pjur.d:r my immelia-e io;i\manJ, in order to a
vT- torc ;* hs L '" hn y " Carrick, sid dircSetf k
It Major Cenrral Moore, »<ho '.vM if Tuhercurry, to c
l. «P prepare.!, la the event of the enemy's move- •
ment to Boyle "
I ° V "? a L r ' Val lt Carrlrk. I found that the en- a
ewiy had palled the gnanunn at Balintm, where b
they attempted to d.flroy the !m<W ; hut lieut r<
it general Lake followe.l them so closely that tehy »'
f s were not able to effea it.
Underthefc circumftaiieri I felt-pretty confident
that pae mor<j march Wotfd bring this "disagree- c
j able to a conciufion jand having obtained, si
» lat»ijfaaoisr information f !, at the enemy had halts 1 it
n 'or t'ie night It Cloonc, I moved with the trorps M
a! *' V^ r! i lc ,, * at ten °' c 'ock on the night of the 7th v
| t? Mohill, and directed lieut. gen. Lake to proceed
at the fame time to Cloone, which is abotjt three '9
. miles from Mo}n\l—i% tihouti j f
bt ab ' c e ' thc r to )°' n v/ith lieut- pen. L .ke in the ! f<
fit attack ot the enemy if thejr fboulci remain at t
id Cloone, or to intercept their retreat if they foould
fe (as it was mol> probable) retire on the approach i V "
of pur army. n
» Oil my arrival at Mohill iJVon after day hre:.k, I<"
found that the enemy had bcgwi to move towards f
>1- Granard ; I then proceeded with all pofliMe ex- t
t h pcdition-othis place, through which t was a ffu- r
3y r / on acc °unt of a broken bridge, that the en
,v "?t r ' u(l P ar ' in their way to Gran trd.and dirrA- j 1
<d lieut. gen. Lake, to attack the enemy's rear, and I
JO imped, their march as mu.h as possible, without : t
r(t bringing the whole of his corps intoa&ion. Li?ut.' t
Gen. Lske performed this service with his usual ! f
O. attent ' on aid ability; and the inclosed letter whic 1
1 have ,« • received from him, w,ll explain the cir- 1
cumltances which produced the immediate furren-
H- der of the enemy's army. s
er Thj copy of my orders which f qnclofe, will (
re ihewhow I have tobefatisficd with the ,
be exerUon f o! 'he troops— and I request thatyour
grace will be pleased to inform hij Majesty, thjt I : '
. v ave received the gr e ,te(l a (Tift,nice from the gen- 1
eral and ftaiF office's who have'ffrved with the art
J. my. 1 have the honour to be, &c. 1 c
' t> o * , cormwalus.
> r. b. lam lorry to find that the wounds of
lie , Lieut. Stephens of the Carabineers are more dan. f
ft. j gerous thnn they bad been reported. *
Ig". ! His Grace the Duke of Portland, *) I
e . See. |
U e C Here followj letter Jiviththe
ue return of the French furreniewd, killed, t
of and wounded, See. &c.f „
a _ Extra{l of a Utter from an officer in lord Corn- j
le | •wall'ts's army. '■ (
I j " Camp 1! St. johnftown, of £
Longford. Sept, 9,1798, ,
r * 1 "You will have been anxious for news j
te from me. My fatigue and my time oblige J
er me to be fliort. We rendezvoused at Ath
t- lone on the 3pth ult. and were brigaded as 1
tn follows : . . *
®- The Advanced Guard c
a- Maj or General Mo#re.
s, 1 ft- Irish Militia & Light Infantry 650
■g 2d ditto 700 '
d 3d ditto 680 *
j. 380 Wtrw ck, JL. Infan.
Jt Major General Hutchinfoa.
iH Downftire Mih'tia: 670 i
„ Armagh Militia 320
10 Antrim Militia 640 \
Major General Hunter. t
2d, or Quten'g jgo
29th Regiment 563
e, Louth Militia 470 t
3f Major General Campbell. ,
J- Sutherland Fencible 900
Suffolk ditto 470 t
Roy ditto 400 f
" With lord Roden'f cavalry, and derach- c
menu from the jth drftgooii guards and
J- Hompefch's hussars, and the Roxburgh fen
:e cibles apd detachments from the royal Eng- {
II li(h and loyal Irifli artilltry, making to- c
■' gether near 9®oo men. ~
" With theft we marched from ! thlone L
on the 30th August, aud had reached Hoi- a
j. lymount on the 4th of September, when rc
:h received information that the French and
a rebels had quitted Caftlebar, and had pufti
■e ed for Sligo. Gen. Lake then left us with „
the Reay fencibles and Armagh militia to a
J3 join a brigade under Major genera! Taylor
at Boyle, with whom he pursued the French c
d to Colloonv, near Sh'go j and we marched c
to Ballyhannes, on the road towards l'ar- \
1- rick on Shannon, to secure the paflTes of |
that riref. j
;® Next day General Moore left us with hie ,
;* Brigade, to support General Lake, but he
n left with us the Flank Companies of the g
n Royal Buck* and Warwick, who were at- f]
tached to Maj. general Hunter's Brigade. a
We encamped that night a very heavy j
march, at French Park—and tlvf next day f
( c wc pushed on to Carrick on Shannon We
„ here received the surprizing intelligence that v
it the French and Rebels, after having been at- t
1- tacked malt gallantly by the Limerick mi-; j|
litia at Colloony, had taken thxir guns, and
0 had purtied on to Manor Hamilton, in their
' way to Ennilkillen, to penetrate into the
North.—Lake was in their rtar, and Major F
j general Nugent had a ccnfiderable force to
0 defend the passes of Lough Erne, which t ,
they did not dare attack. They therefore .tf
doubled back by the Weft of Lough Allen, 1,1
& crofled the Shannon at Ballintra Bridge
after a march of 32 Irifli miles, afiifted by t f
horses, near four hours before Lord Corn- ft
wallis had brought us up to Carrick on ef
Shannon, seven miles below it. We came
to our ground on the 7th at fuur o'clock
and Toon afterwards general Lake who had 1,1
follow; d them closely with Lord Roden's 'jj
Fencibles, the 3d Battallian of Irish militia in
Light Infar.try, the Armagh and Kerry mili- te
tia, an ived at Lcitrim, within three miles of ! h
us. Though we had marched so far, Lord " u
Cornwallis moved us at eleven at night, as a g
it was now evident that the enemy meant w
, to have a race with U3 for Dublin—and by ~
eight o'clock in the morning the Flank Com
panies of General Hunter's Brigade, viz.
the ad 29th, royal Bucks, and Warwick, 5
came up, after 26 Irifli miles (which are 42
English miles) with the enemy, who had hal- _
ted at Cloones, on the road to Granard.
" 1" the darkness of a very ft ormy night
the Royal artillery, the Downfhire, Suffolk,
and Sutherland Regiments had, by the fault
of their Guides, misTed their road, and did
nnt join us till nine. Lord Cornwallis did 1
not think it prudent to attack only with
General Hunter's Brigade, and the Enemy
had moved off.
" As soon as the reft of our columns had
1
J
f t onwttz.
PHILADELPHIA,
t ;- . . -
FRIDAY EVENING, NOFEMSRR iS.
1 , I
~ boneft man in America witl hear- '
!>ly join U3 in the wish that the murderer '
'' Buonaparte may meet the fate of the apostate '
Julian- Happily, this wish, far from be-- J
a ing chimerical, is exalted by our newi of '
velferday, into a well-grounded expe&ation.
In tracing the tracks of former adventurers
e on ihis h&xardous theatre of action, as ac- '
e curatdy as t'ie scanty materials furnifhed us '
* will allow, we difceirn no of the 1
fuccefb of any enterprise undertaken in fimi- I
e lar circumllances to the present. Alexan- '
s der. it is true, pasTed the dtferts of Syria,
Is ! a^ter fubdumg Porm and his multitude.
3 i of Elephant?, penetrated to the Punjab. 1
? But, without inllituting a comparison be- j
tween the course of Alexander' and that of ,
Buonaparte, it is worth while to advert to <
y the far greater degree of similarity, which <
appears, both between the conduA and the '
le t characters of the Imperial apoltate and the 1
*" Gallic assassin. '
j : The certainty of the defeat and deftruc
-1" | t'on of the maritime force, added to the i
; total loss of a large army and immetife body i
of officers, with a man at their head, who, >
r however infamous for the atrocity of his '
crimes* and, whether an able general or not, '
; was worth, from his popularity, more than
Ie an hundred thousand njen, mall prove a
n daggering blow even to so ColofTal a cower i
as that of the Great Nation. Already I fee i
the revolutionizing crew, thole ill-omened 1
birds of prey, who have so long devoured j
3 the vital* of the empire, trodden every !
l ~ where under the foot of the fuffering pea- ,
j tani and the oppressed gentleman. Barbers ,
' and valets shall no more a£l over the r go- <
| vernmeutal gambol*, TKid V dressed in aJit
e" tie brief authority, play such fautaftic tricks '
"j before high Heaven, as makes e'en Angels
L weep." The Dire&orial Harlequin may '
dance his antic hornpipe ; but others shall
no longer pay the piper. America, freed
r> 'from the gripe of fanfculottifm, and frater- .
y nization, shall yet live, and, having nothing
a efe to do, begin, at last, to take care of her
. felf. In this woik, she may fiad a tafk're
: quiring all the energy of thought and a&iou,
' ; which charafterized of old the sages and
' j heroes of Greece and Rome, when thefalus
! r \ptpuli was guarded by a Lycurgus and a
lr | Solon from the keeping of Democratic ruf
l" fians, and promoted by a Dictator, who
knew how to direst again ft the enemies ef
j. the State the just vengeance of the law.
The MofUms, pulled by the whiflrers, wince :
>- This is all good. Let the work go on. Citi-
V zen Revolution has probably yet to take a tour
through Turkey- to instil into the patient Muf
felrpan, the many " Jimple virtues" of the
great nation. Their modesty, their benevolence
y their geiierolity, theirhumanity ! their disinter-
I, eftedpefs, their m'-ffenfivenefs, their incorrup
j] tibility, all offer to the wpnderiug Turk, lessons
by which he may improve upon a system now
r quite Sjbaritian, compared with tfceir*.
The fartfculottifh Admiral Brueyt, ws,
it seems, difpatohed to the other world,
amidst fire and flame. Shakespeare would
call this " A sore-taste of that which is to
come." Would to G<ti, the here and the
J hereafter of al( Jacobins might be fpesdily
affimilated.
i Commoti"ns threaten the estates of the
double-faeed villain apd fool of Pruffia—
the author of all the evils of the last four
years. To him, "on horror's head, may
'•* horrors accumulate."
I Two men lately disputing on the accom
modations provided for prisoners, in the dif
'* fcrt'itt jails in the United States, found fomc
difficulty in agreeing which merited- a pre
' lerence, when one of them put an end to
the dispute by declaring Philadelphia to be
, the belt, as he. had tried them all.
n
The French, wonderful nation ! seem to
' J imagine themielves defigncd for the Cru
>r fader* or Knights Errant of the world.
America had but to cry opprejfton, and they
were in arms to deliver Iter. Since that
* how cxtenflve has been their benevolence in
jj this way : the Turks have just heeo deliver
ed from ou' ps the hands of their enemies,
the Knights of Malta. Damnable nation !
~ how rxtenfive have been the miseries fay her
inflifted. But her Jliield is loft ; and her
„ /pear is broken.
" d * The Pacha of Palcftine makes head a -
t gainst.the invading lafideU. But though
ii they contend on h»!y land, we may console
>e ourselves with the reflection that no Chrijiian
" blood will be spilled.
o After all the various conjc&ures, it ap
° pear- most probable that Buonaparte was
. bent on succouring Paffawan Oglou in his
, £ rebellion. That word Rebellion has a charm '
d which draws the French as crows to carrion. J
: e But '* Rebellion hath had ilMuck."
e
it • #
a The Empire of the Turks " hangs quiv
d ering on a point." It would be a pity to
e have it oreithrowrn ; because next to the
French, it is the freejl and mojl enlightened l'n
' Europe..
It would he curioiH to examine how ma
> ny kindi of liberty have found fheher in the 9
receffis of Gallic frattrnizatiun. The Swiss 1
'* are calling for their former liberty ere they
, have quite done decrying fheir former /}>•
rantiy. But amidlt all the varied forms of -
liberty or of tyranny, none seems :t present
more universally obnoxious than French
liberty.
A BritiHi cock-bost, it appears, has 1
taken a frigate, belonging to their Sanfcu
lottifh Majesties, of 42 gui.s. The frigate
I bears, it seems, the co- qufttorial tile given
~ ' » . . -J.—. _
to the Republic of Ocr.ris: Ti.c
would have called this an ulfvyprymtni Si/
also, tie firs i+tjpftc to km .from tile D-JtcU
hy these pnud Inlanders\ w,g naiped.' alter
tl«a' .Ufiion vvhicfi hat ruioed Holland, rtitf
A. turn: e.
• The aadar-Jy ofthefe tyrants of lit Ocean,
lias long ''hough outraged humanity, and the
Great Nation, as the undoubted rntti it
of wrongs, cannot hwger hsrbear ti» hunlk
their pride It rs, high tima tht Army of
England had performed itb duty—a duty U>
dear to humanity.
Variium, comnjouly called Genera! Varv
num, a member from MafTachufetts, a Ja
cobin, cmc of flic spitting fa&ion, and a man
notorious alike for weak efc and want of
prii Jple, it re-ele&ed. Quit, talia fando,
tempent a furore
' _ <*
ON Monday a final (-iifi:h.irge, took place a"
the 1 cuts on Schuylkill,, wtxii Citrrti) hundred
perlbns, and upwards, wei* difmifled to their
houl'cs, w>io, during their relidence at the Can p
were chiefly Supported,, and wholly ctoathed ly
donations from our Citir-n», and the inhabiting
of all parts of the country. The general and
early flight of the Inhabitants from the Citv, de
priving the laboring claffcs of employment] ant',
consequently, of proyiflons ; the manner in
which grt*t numbers of them were erouded to
gether m fnijll buildings, rendering their filia
tion particularly hazardous; and the difficulty
of extending relief to them at their fcveral hib
i:ations, pointed out the expediency of procui
iug an asylum, where the attention -ir.d exertion
of a few might (helt.r them from disease, and
idrainiller to their neeeflities. This has been
clFe£uall» performed by the Committee : Few
of the Fever have appeared amon£
thein through the whole feaCon, and food ani
raiment have iieen amply supplied. Though
tents, f»aflily pirenrd, a.'e, by no means, a <i»-
firable retreat ; yet, With the advantages ef
flooring, ftr-iw and other c. nveniritoei, tkev
have made the Ji>s o.f those poor fugitives not
only fafe, bin truly cumloruMe. The talk of
regulation among fuc!» an heterogeneous con
courfc of cliaradtei s must have bem attended
with many .difficulties ; .it ha , lipwevtr, beta
obfervedj by numeral vifiiors, that the har
mony and order, apparent in every quarter nf
the encampment, del'ervc the encomium.
Schools were early eital.iifked by the Committee
in which upwards of tour hundred children
were daily inftrjnfted hy suitable teachers fele.it
ed irom the Tents ; and it ic a pleasing fadlthat
many, who, in September, were totally igno
rant of the alphabet, are now enabled to read
with propriety. To prevent idleuefs from be
coming habitual, some of the men were sent to
labor at the Canal ; while others, with the wo
men, were employed in making up r.loathing
for thenofelves and their brethren : The luper
.intendence of their health was committed to a
Physician of emipent talf nts, whnfe indefatiga
ble industry and kind attention can only Se re
warded by hi* own refleili n : And, to com
plete this pifture of beneficence which appeartd
like a star of mild radiance through the gtooia
of calamity, the inculcation of moral and reli
gious duty was regulirly attended to on the
Sabbath, when difeourfes were delivered in
which the purefl principles were pointed out
with perspicuity, and the neceflily of their prac
tical adoption ftrcngly inforced Such have
been the confequencei of an iitftitutior. com*
menced in uncertainty and prosecuted with anx
iety. Nothing need be fiid on the merits of
the Committee, their works speak a language
which cannot but b« underflood by every friend
to the happiness of mankind.
N. B. There been Sixty Births it the
Cncampment.
Ptrt of Philadelphia,
ARRIVID 1 lIAYS
Brig Hopewell, Dowling, Salem, 10
Schr. Albert, (Danish) Paul, St. Croix,
Sufannah, Small, Ha'vauna, >
Sloop President, Brockway, Newport, * 9
Laura, Barker, Nantucket, 9
Goods for Baltimore,
Will be received at theftores of, and forwarded
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
WHO, if they are delivered to them proper
ly dire'fled and in <>9o'd order, will be ac
ronntahle (with the exception of accidents) fjr
their fafe carriage. Due attention will be paid to
dispatch.
Levi Hollingjivorth & Son.
aox. 16 d tat
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine arid common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velveretts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fjincy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Brullels and Persia cat puts
Buttons r ,
Fpr fait, for cajb or credit, by
JAMU.EC MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch Orcet.
Nov. 16 " §tjanx
FOR BELFAST,, "
ijLn TftE'sHir
JOSEPH US,
Henry H. Kennedy, mader,
NOW Tying at Mr. Dottfcbtf'j it-barf, in
Southward. This fh~p is in complait order, arid
will be rrtdy to take'in her' ca*gVon Monday
next, and fail ".uilh ail pojftble dtfpateb Ftr
freight or pajfuge apply to
■
j no. 11, Dnkflreet.
Nov. it §
FOR Wli/MING TON,
North-Carolina,
I—t THI SHIP
COMMERCE,
ijjih Captain Wood,
on very mo
' ■ Wtfffi aiH *il abou; tiio..
4;th inflar.t. Apply to the Captain on board it
Latimer's wharf, of
cs" Francis,
' Mfh'n' Street,
novemiwr t(5 ' ' 1 §
' At fiine o'clock,
Oti 'Wedncfd'ay Mornings
AT no. 40, itn aa stuht
Retiveen Second qnd ThirdJlreels,
' WILL BE SOs t) FOR CJSH,
A valuable and general aflortment
of Household and Kitchen Furniture.
CONNELLY & Co. außioneers.
nov 16 dts—— r> i r . n -
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the Jhip Louifay
Captain Champlin from St. Peterfetifg*
CONSISTING OF
HEMP aud BAR IRON.
In the ship Di/pateh,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg*
15 boxes Linens,
aiul a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of Jhip Rich
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
and an elegant alTortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordecai Lewis.
Philadelphia, nov.'7 d.yv
Just imported in Jbips William Penn, A
tniable and Jean,from London,
A quantity efCannon.fizei 4,6 & 9 lb.') with balls
Carronades, 11 lbs. j suitable.
Mufquets, M nfqHetoons.Cutlafles anJ"J
Pirtols, for (hips use, I j. .•
Rif?«d barreled Guns. Fowling Pieces, ! §
and Horseman's Viflols, f
400 ,000 Flints, c..iefly for muflccts, in J 5-
„ le *V , J "S
Rej ulaiino Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
hards, in cases of 50 each,
Light Cavalry Swcrds in Cases
Fabrcs, Swords and Cutlsffes, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in cafics, a general af
fortmeat—For bale by
Thomas (5* Jno. ICetland,
Philad.
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE* No. 54, South Front-ftrtct,
where they hg#e for fa'e, as usual, a and gc
nciai afiorcmcat of European and Eaft-Icdia
DRT GOODS,
most of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the diffcrert vcfiels, from Hamburgh, Lon
.dcr. Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almofl
every article generally imported, and at as low
prices for caih or credit, as they can be had elfe
wfcere.
>'. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOTS, a
ccnf gnment, to be fcld by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. i, 1798. dtf
Library Company of Philadelphia
THE MEMBERS
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia .
ARE HEREBY INFORMED
'""P'HAT the library will he opened on Thursday
f next, the 15th inftant,for the reception and
delivery of hooks. Those who negledl to leturn
rl.e books, which had been borrowed previous to
sot* twentieth of fyft, on or befor# the firft
of December next, will be fined as the Rul£sdire&.
The I oganian Library
Will also be opened at the lame time, for the like
puapofes. '
• N. B- Catalogues of the books belonging to
fchde Inflitutions may be had at the Library.
Z. POUJLSON, junr. Libra fain.
Library, nov to d6t j
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING F ROM NO. 8, CHtS'NUT, 3
T» the Fine Story Btiilding, in Dock <
near Third'Jlrcet. »
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING er '
Ceflaes
Baftu
Marooodiet
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, CSfi. &c. (
The remains of a Stock of
DRT GOODS, \
Conffling tf Woolent only, c
AUOKSST TUSK ill, (
Cloths J
Coariiigt
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, 4tc.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fiftc flavor, 3d &J 3 4th proof.
nov 10 §
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RECFIVtD AM INVOICE OF
£ hoice Che (hire Double Gloucester
- CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverptfol.}
100 Boxes of Window Glass, [ -
Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London. ,
They have also for Sale, ,
200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre, «
AND A QUAKTITY OP 1
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. ijf Samuel IV. FUher. ]
November l dtf i
* JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at SouthJlreet wharf,
TOIL SALE BY ]
eSTER BLIGHT,
Apply at 9torcs on the Wharf,
who also erraßS rojt sali,
BRANDY, itt and 4th prool
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &e.
Not. 1. dtf
—ROBERT SMITH Of Co. —
Have returned to the City, and are now open
ing at their Start, No 58, So. Front-Jlreet,
A large and General
ASSORTMENT of goods,
Suitable to the Seafoo,
Which they have jaft received per the late I
arrival* from London, Hull, Liverpool and
Glasgow (via New-York) and will dispose
of on very low terms for Cafii or (hort credit.
TO BE LEI,
A Hoafe in Fonrth-ftrect, next door to
to fche MftD Queen —enquire as above.
oovemhrr 6 tfi.it
L A M P B L A C rK. 1
A quantity of Lampblack wis left during the
Fever, at the Office of tlie Ga/ei:« of the Unit
ed Slates, —supposed through mifiake. The
owner is requcftcd to call and take it away.
Nov. j. )
' j BfS'fitCT-C* VENtfcYL^AfciA, I'd wiT: '
71F. IT RKMKMBERZD,
i HAT on the twelfth day
® J of Augufl, in the twenty-third yetr of
Ik' 'A the InfiependencK of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Bar # on,of the faidoif
tridl, h.-th deposited in thi* office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims 'as aiithor in the
words following so wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By Sshjamin Smith Bar
M ton, M.D.Corttfpondent Membttrof theSocie
" ty of the of Scotland, Member as
11 the American Philofophiral Fellow of
" the American Acadt my of Arts and Sciences oi
" Bolton, Correfpondtdg Member of the Maffa
•' chufetts Hidorical Society, and Profeffor of
* Materia Midica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univeruty ct Pennsylvania "
In conformity to the ail of the Congress of the
United Stats-., intitled "An for the encourag#-
m»nt of by iecuriag th- copies of maps,
charts,and <V», to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the times thernin mentionsd.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELL, C.erk, Dift. of Penn'
November 1, 1798.
LAND I N G,
Frotfl on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Mailer, from Cape
~ Nichala Mole.
>3 Balus Socks and Flannel Drawers "|
18 Do. Gaiters j 5' o
Is a Do. Rugs
I Po. Havre Sack« j 91 jj
% Do. Flannel Trowfers I 3
» Do. Tents, J C
Also just Imported,
la the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain Webb, fr»m
Liverpool,
. 147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to l'uit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas John Ketland.
November 7 §
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6 and 9
pounders.
' Carronades, Woe!wish proof, with carriages, &c.
> complete— 12, 18 and 14pounders.
Carnon powder in kegs of 15lbs. each
Round, double-headed, and cannifttr (hot
Patent Iheathing copper, bright, assorted 18,30,
21, »4, *6 an J 28 or per square foot, Aeets 48
by 14 inches, suitable for vsflels from 10® to
1000 tons
Copper nails, bobs and fpik-es
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlasses
Gunners (lores of all kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross boxes
Patent ihot in caflcs of scwt. each
London porter and brown ftaut, in calk* of 7 doz.
bottled.
F.arthen ware in crates, assorted
For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth ftrect.
O&ober 29. eo.tf.
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
RESPECTFULLY iDforms the Public that
he continues to teach Ladies the Piano
Forte as usual.
Nov-. 6. tuthsa
French Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Street,
will OPKN
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
On Wednesday, the 14 th Injl.
N. B.— Private Tuition attended to as usual,
and Translation) from either Language into the
other, performed with acakracy, fecreey, and
dispatch.
no*. 10 ewtf
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from'the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brim (Ion?.
An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
- CONSISTING Or ,
Opium, Aloes, Cancharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &e.
Essences of Lemon red Bergamot
Writing paper '
Sweet oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olivet, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
AL S o.—ltalianluteftringi '
Satins i
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wins of the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
November J 5
" NOTICI
To Owners of Carriages, and
RaTAiLERg of Wine & Shrits.
IN cnnfequence of the late Epidemic in this '
City, numbers have negle&ed to eater their
1 Carriages, also the retailers of Wine and Spi
i riti to call and take out their Licences. The
returning health of the City, the Office is re
moved from Germantown to its former place,
No. 4, North Third-ftfeet, where those who
have neg!e<3ed must call and pay the duty on
their Carriages, and those retailers take out then
Licences—Their ready compliance will prevent
incurring the penalty of the Law.
JAMEt ASH, Colledtor
of the Ift Survey of the \fl
Div'ifion »f Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Office of Infpeftion )
No. 49, North Third-ftrtet. \
0- The STAMP-PRESS it kept it this
Office.
nov 9 mw&fiw
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
At tbt Store No. 22 Chefnut-ftreel.
Begi leave to inform bis friends if cuflomers that
be has removed bis foods from Chefnut-Hill, 1
Wisno w ready to accommodate them with, •
COARSE and (hie white, red & green Baizes 1
in half pieces—Coarse and fine white Flan- 1
nelle from ihd, to 6/ a yard. He expetfli a
further fupplv\>f the firft arrival* frdtn Scotland,
Ireland and England, and it deteraiaed to fell I
low far Calh or a (hort credit,
nov 7 3awtf 1
Cook
WANTED, by a small regular family, a wo
man cook, who is a thorough mistress of
her business and can produce fatisfaaory recom
mendation. Any person answering the above
description, will meet \viA constant employ and
generous wages. Application to be made at th.
office of this gazette.
To save trouble, no Irifli woman need apply.
»ct. 6 , Jt
! iiat.k of Pcnr.fylvan'ia,
Septfmber jd, «7V
X \TTHF.UJIAS the Hou;e at piefciit occupied
us W by the Bank of Pennsylvania waienter
ed an tie night of the firft infiaiit, by lomevil
lain 3, who robbed the wffitwtion of lundiy
• Bai.k Notes, amongst which were
e ing post notes of the Bank of New-York, viz.
, No losa, dated 13d of August, 1798, Dutis
iflued in favor of Seabring &
Van Wyck, for 39& «
a s No 1003, dated 15th of August, 1795,
0 f ifßied in favor of Montgom
-01 ery and Newbold for 1150
2 . No 1006, 27th do. do. do. 2000
of 1(007, do. do. do. do. 2000
ny 1008, do. do. do. do. 2000
1009, do. do. do. do. 2000
he 1010, 28th do. do. do. 2000
ion, do. do. do. do. 2000
ps, 10J2, 30th do. do. do. 150 c
"■> 1013, do. do. do do. 1000
'•*J Also funiry post notes of the Bank of l'enn
ln' fylvania, dated 23d July 1797, ifl'ucd in favcr
of George Hughes, for one thousand dollars
each, and sundry post notes of fa id Bank, da
ted 15th of July, 1797, iflj/rd in favor of Geo.
a * Hughes, for five hundred djllars each .-nd in
dorsed by him. The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
« ward of TIVO THOUSAND DOLLARS .«
g. hereby offered for th- discovery and ronvi<£lion
Z of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
m ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
r? offered by the Governor of the Commonweal#!
? in his Proclamation of this day.
By order of the Board,
m _____ JONATHAN SMITH, calhier.
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
ia 119 Chafnut-ftrcct,
(Price 1-8 th of a Dollar, J
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town ef
BOSTON, in commemr'ration of the anni
f, verfary of American Independeace. >
9 By Jon ah Qvtnct.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we have sustained,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
t and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wis
« the maxim of liie Devil in the garden of Eden,
0 and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from (hat period to the
present."
Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, &c.p. 78
by the late J. Quincy, fun.
august 11
This Day is Published,
• AND FOR SALZ BY J. PENNO, f 19, C HES KU T-J1 RfET
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and present state of
French aggrelfion, with a lketch of the infamous
attempts t« degrade the Government of the United 1
- States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Cong-reft; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House of Rcprefen
tativss. j junell
, Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Bearfauker« and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approvadpatterni, entitled
. tothc drawback, just received, <
AN* iOR SAL« BV t
Alex. J. Miller & Co. 1
No. 64, South Front street. '
may 18. <; <
FOR SALE, !
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity j
Benjamin Monteith Master, from Laguira, 1
1 C«NSISTIKG or
94J Fenegjis of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Mora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packagesof Ooat Skins
I By Willingl Fracas.
No. Eleventh-street.
i°'y » dtf
Lafl Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
THE firft are requested to render their Ac
counts against him, made up to the 23d
day of August, 1797, the date of his Assign
ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, before the firft day of December ensuing.
Any that remain unsettled after that period, will
be put into the bauds of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
DAVID M. SHIELDS, 1
Attorney, to the
Assignees and Trustees of
J. Shields.
Chefaut-ftreet, No, 22.
November T, 1798. '
Mails for South-Carolina is" Georgia, 1
P A CKli rS are now provided for carrying the j
X Public mailsby water between Philadelphia ,
and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia <
on Friday s. The post by land will bec^ntimi
. Ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
regard to tn? expedition and regularity of the
. packets. If any person chufes" to have their '
, letters sent by land only, they will please to !
, write the word Lend upon the letters • other '
, w i[f they be/ent by that conveyance which
, wiH firft start after the letter, are' left m the ,
poft-effice.
Joseph Haberjham,
. . Poji-Majler Cemert.
Philadelphia, August 13, 1798.
JOHN SHIELDS, " (
broker,
Embraces this opportunity to present his thanks
, to his fello-M-citizenj f or ibeir paJJ f
and acquaints thtm that be „ returned from ,
Chefnut-Bill, to his former reftienct, the
House No. t» Chefnut between Front 1
and Second-street.
WHERE he hold.ihimfclf,ready to execute !
ca- » c omm»nds in ererv branch of his
profeffion, trusting that from a residence m this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
» them tffential ferv.ee, affnring them that his
• commiflion (hall be u l ow as a ßy i„ Yw.
1 Lott., La.ds, Houses, Vessels, Certificate,
I k f[ C TT J and BilU Exchange,
1 bought and fold, the docketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the (horteft no- ,
uce, by the public's humble servant, !
n j •, . J obn SWeWr.
FlO- Good negotiable Notc« discounted
at a low premium.
f , novCTnbcr 1 3»wtf
REMOVAL.
j TH F. SUBSCRIBERS haveremovad their Office
. f ' om thc c ° rn " of Eleventh to their former
Counting House, No. n, p en n Street
Millings (sP Franck.
Novcmbtr 3
j
The £uibfcriber^
Art noiv Landing—For Salei
j St. Croix Rum—vtufcovado Sugar
Red Port Wine,
In pipe, hogsheads and quarter CaHcs.
f Two thousand buftiels of Salt,
Eighteen Iron Six pounders' proved at Woolwich.
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
November 3 ' 10t ,
1 Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my coiti•
mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz.
Oiffober 19.
GEORGE .KELLER, 40 years of age, $
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, bora in Holland, no Trade, fpc-aks
broken Er.glilh and very talkative, has a dimple
in hit c hin.
November 6. John Murphy, 17 years of
i- age, 5 sect 1 i inches in height, grey eyes, dark
r bur and eomplexion, born in Ireland, city of
» Dublin, by trade a Hozier.
1- Jacob Ideri, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
'• high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh complexion.
r born in New-England, state of Connedlicut, a
1- repeated deserter, by trade a Blackfmi'.li.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
s age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frclh com
n plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
d some time abaut Philadelphia, he is very fond
h to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addi.il
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if 111 their power, are artificially marked
" on their backs, had on, wiien they went away,
their regimental clothing. VVhofoever appre
hends said deserters, (hall receive fortvdollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason
able expcices, by applying to nieas above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding,
f nov 10 $
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to the Treasu
ry of the United States, for thc renewal of the
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
* Stock, Handing in the name of John Carbonell, of
[ London, thc said Certificates having been loft on
> board the Shallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
• Falmouth tit New-York.
No. 3072 I Ctrl, for 2000 dolls. "1
2964 I do. JOOO i
- 10,5 77 I do, 3000 J
Wtilings & Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. eo6wr
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to tile treasury
of the Vnited States for the renewal of the follow
ing certificates of fix per cents, funded debts,"ftand
m the name of Jane GaTridle RigauJ, of Geneva,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York.
Bolh.
N0.3195. Reg.office l9thMay '95, icert. for 1000
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3^oo
Willing} 1$ Francis.
Odober 14. eod6w.
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia the 28th day of May } 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of perfsns, and
repealing the forraer ails for that pu-rpofc—That
there shall be levied, colledfed and paid, upon all
carriages for the conveyance of persons, which
shall be kept by or for any person, for his or her
own use, or to let out to hire, or for the convey
ing of pafiengers, the several duties and rates fol
lowing, vi!. JoJIi.
For and upon every coach I j
upon every chariot 11
upon every post chariot 12
upoh every ;j«ft chaise I %
uponeverypfHrton,withervr&hout top 9
upon every coaehee 9
upon other carriages, having pairnel >
work above, with blinds, glafles, ( 9
or curtains y
upon four-wheel carriages, rurving")
frame posts and tops, with fleel > 6
springs \
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ")
wooden or iron springs on jacks J
upon curricles with tops 3
upon chailes with tops 3
upon chairs with tops
upon sulkies with t»p« 3
upon ether two wheel top carriages 3
•pon two wheel carriages with ftecl")
or iron springs j 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having iramed / posts and tops, C 2
aad resting upon wooden span 5
The Collector of the revenue 0! the firft divifioti
of the firft Turvey of the diftric. of Peiinfylvauia, [
will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, for the putpofeiof receiving the dutieo on
carriages, jit Ckrtaintowji, cn the Main street, a
little .above the sign of the King of Pruflia, of
which all perfpns poilefl]ed of such carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is alio given,
To all retail dealers in wines add foreign diftillcd
spirituous liqnors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win s in a less quantity, or in less
uantitics, than 30 gallon.—and one licence for.
arrying on the business of retailing spirituous li
quors in Ws quantities than twenty g dlons, at the
lame time and at the fame place, by
„ „ „ JAMES ASH,
Collc&or of tfee Ift division of the ill
nee c » t^c diftrid of Pennfvlvania.
Ofncc oi-Infpcction at Germantowii, ">
2ld August, 1798. J
gT Every denomination of Sumps to be had
»c laid •Beg.
Patent Ploughs,
T O be fold for ca(h by Joseph Salter at Atfion
A Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury— and JefTe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
lets team, break the ground better are kept in
0 r at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate the plan is much Amplified and confifUof
but one piece of cast iron, with the bandies and
beaa as wood; they may ftefixed with wrought
lays a»d cookers to be pat on with screws and
taken off at pleafore.
Patent rights for vending wlthinftrudlions for
makmg them may be had by applying to John
ifewbolT, or the fubferiber No. 212 North
rront-ureet.
Who has for Sale,
Or to Lenfi for a term of Tears,
A number of valuable trifls of Land, well
Utuated for Mills, tron tVorksor Farms, most-
: y '™P ro^ ct1 > lying chifflv in the county of Hun
tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them will please to apply to
John Canan eftj.ntar Huntingdon.
. , Claries Newiold,
J u, r '7 uvtt
J
For Saie, at the Stores of the SuL
fchbers, on Walnut street Wharf
195 caflcs of nail, alTorted '
zo bales ef fail ccanvas,nvaf s , f ronl No ~ .
J 3 calks yellow oc h re • * to J
' $ tierces bottled porter, g tn t, a
London particular ) eac^
1- India market \ Madeira Wines
Tenenjfedo. in hotjflieads
u Old Port do. in hhdj.
Empty Claret bottles
4. 10, and?inch cabiesand to c"i V
Writing fiates, ink Hands and prefix C#rda S e
20 purcneons Jamaica rum
g l bale seaming twine
d 160 bundlea flieatfcing paper
I april , NiM <* am
F . rv
,f Dollars Reward "
their escape from the Ga«T • i_
f IVL rough of Lancaster, on SaturT ™
last, between the hours »f 8 an J ~ o'clnrJ™" 12
, French prisoners, part of the crew'of La CroyT
a The one named Etiennc Auflin, a nativt 0 f 1W
deaux m France, 26 years J ' a " of *°t.
f " lcheS hi ß h ' «7s» and c.m.ple'iion L 5
I »««, . , .hi,,
' SSSSS&" 4 -i&ttf
-
s trmptigliSfSSStfSm 'h™
, when he went away, a blue sailor', jack/with
: sett-"" •» c?.
gro man named p ctlr HufiZ aV oß cTfe? t .n T
bi£b, pfafmjling counte£n«. £***s
» felony ,n th„ county. Had on » Aen he wen t
• away, a long blue coat, a pair of white trowfer.
both ragged, and a black hat. *
' nJZTr't* dolhrs Wi " * P aid for aPprehend
? 'I s a,ld fttß f in g My goal, each or euher of the
I above Mamed Frenchmen, and Ten dollars lor the
f negro, by
' Chrifiiat Carpenter, jun. Jheriff.
' Lancaster. Od. 20, t 79 8. leo.lt
torty Dollars Reward
FOR APPREHENDING
A GENTLEMAN NEGRO,
T> Y name George or G.orce Parker,'the
P ro l e "y n{ the fubferiber, who has thought
proper on tfie night of the zift inft. to elope from
his matter without any provocation orjuft cause ;
he wm formerly the property of Beckwith Butler,
esq. and lived a considerable time with -
Pottenger whokept tavern in Frederickbu rg.havinc
, lcen muc h company and travelled with several
gentlemen, througn different partj of this llate, he
is mnch known. It is therefore conjeiiured he
• 1? U / 0r fame ° f £he northern cities or towns
as he has difcoveredan aversion toplantation work,
t though he may perhaps have crossed the ridge
W as a .' ,r " t *' r belonging to major Butler.
T hi. follow i? about five feet seven inch s high,
well proportioned and walks adtive and brilk, hit
countenance if open and agreeable enough when
in good humour ; he can hardly be furpift in
Ihrewdnrfs, and is a very cspible waiting-man,
house servant, barber, &c. To describe his dress
would be ufelefs,as he polTefied a variety of clothes,
th< iijjh when drefled lately, he xvore a green coat
couiid with white fer* ting and fpotte.i jacket and
breeches. Whoever brings him home or securer
in goal in this or any other Sate the said slave, so
that I may get him again, (ball have the above re
wjrd ALEXANDER VASS.
Fa mouth Oit.aj, 1798.
B.—Maflera of-wflela Bc»ge Srirer»
are requested to beware of fuffering said fellow to
impose on them by alliding his escape. A. V.
■ November j ' w&f. 4 w
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Jun* 17, 1798.
j TVTOTICE.I& HEREBY GIVEN, That by vfr-
IN tut of an ai>, pafied during the profent ses
sion «f C'onsrrcl's, so much of the a£t enrituled
" An Adl making further provision for the sup
" port ol public credit, and far the redemption
" of the public debt"—pafTed the third dty of
!*farch, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fettletnent or allowance,
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In
ferefts, is fufpeiided until the twelfth day o
Jdne, which willbc in the year onethoufandfevea
hundred and ninety ninj.
T hat on fie liquidation and settlement of the
said Certificates, and Indents of InterelV, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receiva
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of interest due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand Itvzn
I hundred'.and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof the said Loan Office
and final,fettlement Certificates, with the interest
► j thereon, fincethefirft day ol January, one thou
sand seven hundred and nirtety onr. willbedif
chirged after liquidation at the Treasury, by tbe
payment of interest and reimburfonient of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would-have been
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had beea
fubfitiibed, pursuant to the Ads making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dur-
I ing the late war, and by the payment! of oth»r
; sums, equal to the market of the remaining
' Stock, whieh would have been created by such
; fubferiptionsasaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ef the 'Treasury.
■ jsne 18 lawtf
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS James Cuuuikq i!f Co. late oi
the city of Philadelphia, nWrchaius, have
afiigned over all their elTe&s, real, perfoncl and
mixe<l, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of ait
their creditors, who ft-ali fubferibe the said afiija.
ment within fix months from the date hereof,
j NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfon»
t who are indebted to the said eft ate, that they are
required to make immediate payment of their ref
pediive accounts, to theAfiignees, at their office,
j No. 6i, Dock street, in failure whereof a&ions
will be instituted for the recovery of such debts as
1 are not discharged accordingly.
"John Trav'u, ~J
l Cornelius Comegys j
wgust t8 mwftiD
[ TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
! "p\B.SERTED last night, a second time, from
X-/ the Marine Camp, David Lufer, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain Hue jacket and
veftjlight blueoveralla, a round hat,which hftdbeeo
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fit ft desertion, and a pair of new fiioes. he it
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
f His back is still fore from a flogging he got a few
> day* ago He may bo difcoverfcd by his fifeiiig,
as he play a extremely well.
W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Ov.;oter 17. Marine Corpi.