©ajrttt States, Daily Advertiser.
1867. J
* # * The price of this Gazette is eight Qf
Dollars a ' ear.—Sitbfcribers -who reftde at (
■ a dijUnce from the place of publication, and
tuhofe papers are sent per pojl, pay fx Cough
month's fubfeription in advance, and one
dollar annually far enclosing and directing
their papers. The payments to be always ' Fo ,
Ax months in advance. kojred ui
J - spitting
For Sale. tobem
THE intending to decline the ®V
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the nef. .of
whole Stock of DroDS
Drugs and MetUcines, Inftrumcnts, &C.
is elegant, commodious. a»d fulhc»- Qu9 re ,j
ently known for the extensive business cone m the j h|efs
wholcfale and retail line V the fiwation
any in the city, being * the co, ncr of Walnut and (
Second arcets. The whole, or any par. of the .
Stock, will bo fold, as will best fmt the purc_afer.
'■ i--»" '-js&tteK: i». •« i.»
ated for the river trade— propri
The Peggy, about jotonsburthen, vvaihi
Mulberry and Kcd Ced r franne, and r nv.rkably sice, 1
stout, of an easy draught water, r gg.ng m and lo
good order. - ' s '
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails gg
•well, and in complete order forthelu*berbufi»efs>
X All peifons mdeKfd to the Uto firmof f-a
ihwit as Moor,, or the fulvfrri fr, are earneft.y
Kquefttd to make speedy payment to "J S "
r ' M&s MOO RE, jhn. of th
§ sons :
a "g° st 7 sons
Ship & Insurance Broker,/ vendi
rr-Ht sucfcribei", encouraged by the advice Chap
i of his friends, offers his fervicc to the pub- cattle
lie M a Ship and Broker. H. pro- wick
nnfes to buy and Tell veffcls and every thing re- ,
L.n, thereto—assift mailers of veflfcUi ancl others Dr C
in eorerin- and clearing at the Cuttom House, __au,
procur ng and Tapping freight, leithng Inlur
ance and all other mercantile acco»nts a«d
on hand the neceirai y Blanks and Stamps.
Paprrs in ore-gn languages tranOated, and
inform ition given in general mercantile matters
-From a knowledge gained by long experience
Of every branch -t business he hopes to be uft-
Fhiladelphii, august 14th, t7?± JL
FO:< SALE,
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub-
{bribers, on Walnut street Wharf, J u fl
calks of nails assorted and
ao bales <>t fail canvafu, from No. I to 8 th( .
r i rafks veil w ochre , and
1 5 t, icei mottled porur, 6to 14 doz each plc
London particular ) a ,!eira Wiriei P re
India market 5 Ob.
Tenenffe do. in hoglheads and pip
<3ll Port do. in hhds. •
airorted for the Weft India inaiket
4 , 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coil, of cordage A
Writing fiatss, i'-k Hards and presses *
ao puncheons'amaica rum
I h-.k fean.ing twine
*6O bundles iheatf ing paper
Nicklin & Griffith. _
.. tuth&f.tf J
april 7 1
STAMPS.
W. GRIFFITHS,
BOOKSELLER V STATIONER,
BEGS :eav, to ir.lorm inch person.m the fouth
,.rn part of .ie city (who may find ,t inC °"'
Teniwu to go farther up for their stamps) that at
S No' .77, South Second, near iprucc J
street he has a generalfupply for distribution
He'has juftr c riv«d froni London, by theiway I (
of New York an elegant affortmcnt of Morocco
Articles, viz travulline, drefling, writing an I
dreffi g C,fes, with InWent. very ;
Pocket Books ; Etwees; Thread Cases, P»rles,
& c in the greatefi variety and befl maßufaaure.
t£r*r<-~ —Chars of every part of the _
American Coast, Prints framedand glared, Draw
r< i- 1 a „d Portable Delks, which, with his I
u'ual 'lock, w G. hopes will not be unworthy
the attention of ladiosor gentlemen who m.-.ke use
° f A numbet of It-all Dutch RIFLES, cheap ,
july 30
Madeira Wine.
A few tipes of remarkably fine MADEIRA WINE
, fil fo r immediate use. a,d at a
'sale bv J r „,( 1
" Should a gentleman, a 11a
' M Trnenffe, who has been known in America by I
LT nf Lewi. Martin Cevel at one t me, and at
thatof Lewi, Cevel Pe!lifer, be alive,and
- iu £ -rrbto
:.w"dcd uh twenty dollars, by appW'"g ,s ab ®
} Mr Pel lifer is ...ppoled .0 be iome where inthe state
of Malfaehufeits. f
[ august t. 1— I
Bafkenridge —tor sale
TT ronfifts of 910 acres, almost all olwh:ch
1 a fine rich Meadow, (the rcfiderfteof the late I
tfct. r li rcr > It may be conveniently dixided I
tStXSSJU X» "» bounded on tht
olbniUino.ro™.,]
, 1 r icrcß—The dwclHiig houfc I
SSlnull^r« ' ..."
1 JO. fin'bearing .ojr.l-
SiV™»" p-'i'oto'y ck ™ •'""
"iSTg" I S£'2k»««M mm
~„rfth.pl« d ElimWili - iodo.
Spn^-I.
Hncafh on delivery ol the & Co .
«l uireol 'ko. 7 S, Chefnut trcet.
eodtf
•bviary ».
By John Fenno, N® 119 Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 6, 1798.
ANOTHER. STRONG PROOF
Of the areat ami uupa alb-ted efficiv of , THAT
Dt. CHURCH'S GOUGS DROPS, )yofthe
lit the Cut of following
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas d Consumptions. Stock, lta
London, I
Neiv-Torti July 10, "* 7# . board ,the
To D*. CHURcrf. Falmouth
Sir, A»«. 3
For Upwards of Twelve Tears, I hivej'a-
bored under a severe Csiugh, shortness of breath
{pitting of nutter from my lungs and often ot
clotted Olood. till at length I was so reduced as phi'adt
to be unable to walk across my room, and ow- * _
ing to tne vi Itrlce of my and the (hort- y n
ntfs of breath could .-get no reft day or night.— , OST
Hearing of your excellent medicine,,/.he Cough _|_4 Feri
Drops, I procured 4' buttle ; I took a dose as Morocco
soon as I got it, from which I found mflantane- t0 ( j le Jn .
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days, asd . jpw .
I bless GAd lam raftored to perfect health. As m) use t|
T believe you to have bean the inftrisment in the whofoc
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I mult tHr[)g u ,
intreat you to publifli this for the benefit of any i ear g c^
who may be in ray situation, as lam confident an( j £
|it is one of the best medicines in the world tor ao „ u }j
those.complaints.
lam, Sir, your grateful servant, V^li
NICHOL /IS ST AGO,
Little Robinson-street.- TNpvr
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS, 1 Com
Are prepared and fold by thelnventer antifole 179».
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Bifp«if»>V
Wafhington.ftrett, New-York, and at his of
fice, No I, South Third-street, Philadelphia, 1
i and Ibid by appointment at Mr Weedman sII2 1
Wiltiain-ftrcdt, mu» Sulwe.l &. DciOieftj 160 j ■]
Pearl-street, New.-York. Mancius : Albany, Alw
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandra, W il
r foH, Wilmington, &c. &c. a( j
:• C BS E R y F, Chai
J As a- counterfeit meJic me the Scik!
lus been indullrioufly circulated through feme ftree s .
of the principal cities in <he United States, per
sons are requested t purcbale them of such per- Th e
" sons only as have Dr Church's appoint rnent tor w „h th
vending the fame. Powers, thereof
e ChapDfU He»d of Elk—Bond and Co. New- tedfor
( - 3 ftle—Hemitfh, Lancafttr—Blau-elt, Brunt- neceffa
i- wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c. Aft;
* * Patients letters (Post paid) addrcfled to beheld
rs Dr Church, New York, duly attended to. ten 6'c
augnft »e lau'jw Arriu
r * This Day tublijhed,
,C And for faleat the Office of the Editor, No. C' J :
. 119 Chefnut-ftrtet, A •
f Price x-ith y a Dollar,J ' 1
£ ( AN ORATION, ££
«- Pronounce.; Jtly 4. 1798. & c . &
ir At therequeft of the Inhamants of the Town or ofon|
BOSTON, in commeiioration of the anm
verfary of American lAlependeoce. au
- By Josiah gvrttcr. —-
" The inroads upon >ur public liberty, call
k for reparation—The wrings we have sustained,
c.tl for—Justice. Iha Reparation and th« TNF
Juftiee, may yet be obtaned, by Union, Spirit, < X in
and Firmness But to ivide and conquer was ter th
the maxim of the Devil n the garden ot Eden, willh
and to disunite and «</« hath been the princi- . patch
1 ole of all his votarits frewtWl period to the _
fent 39
Ijbservatiens on the Bostot Port-Bill, 7! t ' ,e |> R
by the late J. tyny, /'"»• fhat *
""-'uft ti ,<u a d
TO BE LET, 1U
&c ' And immediate patession given ; ~j
laee A Large convenient, «ell fimlhtd houle. No J
J\ its High-street, latily occupied by Doc
tor Wiliar, with Coach hisufe and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF, *
168, Ktgh-Jlrett. B
i"fy f l
for sale; by
John Miller, Jun.
I NO. 8, enesNur striet, £
100 hoglheads RUM, nc, .s
I Of proof aul flavour
>ut k" j july 19
' c t on a ; I J Madras and Vcntapaulem
irucc
HANDKERCHIEFS, _ MC
1 Searfaukers and Carradatries, »
Way I »f the neweftandmoft approvadpaMerns,entitled
toth« drawback, jufl received,
, nnd ah* roa sale uy in
/ ; Alex. J- Miller f3* Co. ab
" ' - . NO.S4, St(»th Front street.
lrC * 1 .
,f the I may is. cei
TZ'\ OX BEEF. «
h his _ pa
150 half Barrels ) U P w"* l t»« ref:)r long voyages,
p 1 100 Barrels of Connecticut Pork,
iw Iro Barrels of Conneflicijt Tongues.
-—" WINES. -r
i< Pipes of Madeira Wine _
S 30 Pipes of Tort
» n I 30 half calks of Sherry
r r,,f I 30 Calks of Lisbon
no. I z(
. 1 quality. . .
rica by I g QO Barrels of Skraperf FLOUR»
a i 100 Barrels of Condemned, a«d ..
VC,an il »o Boxes of best Durham Muftarf.
US rcr^L h ~ ■
acerti-1 John Skyrin,
"j eie *l Landenberger's Wharf.
above ' I rr, J e°dtf
he ftjte I ma y 4 ; — —■
| Just Received and fur faie by
h WILL lAM TO UNC,
I Corner of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
I Office of tha E J tor,pri«e 3 l6tbs ef a dollar,
he'latl* AN ORATION,
dixided I Spoken at Hartford, oa the Anniversary of lode
1 °° th I BY THEODORE DWIGHT
SSSI Fsr Sate, '
e would I THE time of an indenttd NEGRO MAN,
I Who u an excellent Cook, k»« about eight
engraf-l y tar4 to serve. ALS Ot
:e ot said | The t , me 0 f an indented Negro Boy,
a great I Who ; 9 i goo< i House Servant, and has about
es ol the nine yea. sto serve, they art both perfeAly hon
. 1 eft and feber -For terms apply to No. 166
,tMy> a " South Frost-street.
tontcaii- A Mvtf
8 miles »»g ufl 1 , ,
fiew-n 1° be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
pr. acre _ N {he outh fide of Filbert Street, .between
e to to- fl Eighth »nd Nin.h street, forirerl* occupied
Co - a , ,h e surveyor General's Offieo<--Bnq.wre at No.
" treet - in, Chefnut Street.
august 10 5
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will he nvide to the I reafu-
ry of the United States, for the renewal ef the 1) ley
following Certificates of Six Per £•-' t Funded h, use an<
Stock, in the name of */b.i Curbvntll, of , BILL O
London, the laid Certificates having en loft on jup in afi
board the Swallow Packet, C*pta.n Kidd. from
Falmouth to New-Yoik t' n
No. 7C>7» I Cert, for -tOOO ddu.~l N B.
; 1 f 5000 \ w «p^
" 10,577 i do 3000 j
' WiUtngs & Francis.
Philadelphu, august 30. eo&.v - W"1
twenty Dollars Reward, York, o
7 T OST between Germar.town and the middle oilober
n I f Ferry, or. the aQtli instant, a Small Red aach, ar
3 Morocco Pocket Bo.k, containing 3ank Notes received
to the amount of one hundred and fifty Ooliars am dcti
s ' asd»jpward—M"iveral other papers that can be of proper 1
no use to any other person but the owner. flgnmen
If Whosoever has found said Pocket Book and re
" turns it to Ensign George W. Stall at the Camp New
'y near Schuylkill shall receive the above reward, "P
---nl and no q iefli ons alked. K
or awrufl 30 st .
City Commiflioners' Office,
August 30, 1798. fry-
INpurfusnceof an ordinance of the deleft and
Common Councils, passed the aad day of May, yai jj n(r
?y, " ropofals in writing will be received by the City
of. Conm.ilfioat rs for one month from th»- firll of bep ble Lir
temter next, for letting to rene oa 1-afes for .-se • ,
' yJt, to corfirtence the Srft day of Jsnuaay next, r
~n the following public property of the citj—
The wharf ard landing on Vinellreet, i 1
,y,'; Alio onSafTalras, Ape
Mulberry, Frijat>
Aaa High streets. . ved to
Chefnut an * W hul; ftreetsj Qrawbritlge, with tl2mc „
me the Scale and F.lh hcufes, Spruce, Pitw and Cedar theif (
mi: ftree s
3er " The under the City Hall. an?
Jer- xhe faveru at the niiiMle ferry on SchuyUiU,
lor with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
e— thereof n shall be occupied by any buildings erec- \TT
ew- ted for the uie of the Collector of the lolls, or be \ V
unl"- nectflaryfor the toll gatts ) afligm
A stated meeting or the City Commiflioners will mixed
dto I.x held at;the City Halle vary Tuesday morning t their
ten 6'clo k, during the present epidemic eoim ment
*. Arrived in "the ship Pennsylvania, Capt. Wi l-
LIAMSON, from Hamburgh, now lying at fe q U ;,
Chejler. peclii
A Number of GERMAN SERVANTS, men, No. f
£1 women, boys and girls, amongst whom are will I
Gunsmiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black- are bi
smiths. Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntsmen,
( &c. &c. whofetime of l'ervitu<ie is to be disposed
,n 0 . of on board the Ship, by
inm " GURNET & SMITH.
august . as|
call w. Young, -p~ e
iwed, BOOKSELLER to" STATIONER, _ .
'Vat TNFORMS his friends and wholesale customers TV
pirit, 1X in the country, who find it difagmaa'ole to en JL '
■ was ' t e r the city during the present Fever, That orders poll
!den, j will be received, and executed with til possible dif- in 3 C
rinci- J patch, at the » nf> -
3 the 1 WHIFB HALL PRINTING OFFICE, fuiei
lin the white buildiug, above the Mile oa No.
p. it the Ridge-Road. abo>
* * His customers i r > th# city are also informed reco
that'the Store in the City will be open, every day, wife
— Sunday excepted, from Nine until One of the clack. agr<
august 19. I
e' Ne 'James C. & Saml. W. Fijher, a
f. No; 13 ARCH-iTRE*T,
, s Have for Sale
40 0 Calks befl refined Salt Petre | f\
'ett. Best London Window Glass from so by Bto j
{ übyio -..<.(!• — 2
- ~ Ditto Glass Ware in CaJksaflortedcanfifting ljo
of pint and halt-pint Tumblers, Wine at)( j
GlafTes, Goblets, &c. ing
IN • Also, 1 flO!
A few Dales of Red, White a»d Yellow Flan
, nels, Baizea and Kendall Cottons. 1
iune 17 -^ wt L_ .
§ IprUTToN. N
WHEREAS a^erlainperfonfwliioled
from me on the firft inft. by giving I
entitled me inljeuthereof a forged check on ilie Bank s ri
of North America, aaate of that date, drawn tr.
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay- j
Co. able in fix months, for three tboufand four I
: street. hundred and fifty .seven dollars and forty-ux I Q j
t cents. ALL persona are delired not to re- f,:
ceive any transfer of it, as it will not be J N
paid by either the drawer or endorser unkls J
ity, put recotered by law. j
voyages. .WILLIAM NICHOLb,
Race Street.
august 6. . I
The Public are hereby informed, j
THAT I did not mean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pay, 1
un'efs recovered by law, my note alluded to in his
excellent caution of tke 6th of August, published in the Ga
zetteof the United States of larl evening. 1 sin
cerely lament his lo!s, and t»ld him I would «o |
all 1 could do confiflently with my credit to larve I
, him. but went no further. I
3. JOHN TRAVIS.
august 7
Wharf. FOR SALE,
eodtf The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
y Benjamin Mot teith Mailer, from Laguira, I
' Q CONSISTING or
and at the 945 Feregas of Cocoa
1 dollar, 4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Package* of Goat Skins
7 of In<le fly Willings & Francis.
No. Klcvcnth
• July *: _ I
"" Weft-Indian from Madeira.
0 MAN, .
iout eight jj-j. Those Gentlemen wha have Wines
011 board the Welt-Indian are informed lhe is
now discharging at Sonth-llreet Wharf, are 10-1
1 has about lic - |te( j to hilien down their permits, the V tile I
fecflly hon- immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
o No. 166 Who wants to Purchase,
4 awtf ic° Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef
7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
r 4 or SCOO bushels Indian Corn,
louse, landing
t, between /7 rom the West Indian,
ui«lt P No A choice parcel of Phelp s olii particular
Wine in Pipes fit f#r Immediate uT*.
e»s t august is J tot
Lost Tester day, T 'Z" orj
BRTWEKN the War Office and George S:ray- W a! l
ley's Taveru in ftreet, or h;twecn his _ ..
b> use and the tipper Ferry onSchuylkill, A B \\\
BILL OF ONE HUNDRED DOLL.\RS, rolled .* ! . 11
up in afmall piece of paper. Whoever ha» found m laid .
it, and will leave it with Mr. Strayley. (ball re- CH#iity,_
ce%. f n dollars aad many thanks as a rew ird luit oH
N. B. The money belongs to a poor er, aad Cha
who is greatb' diftrefTed by tke l#f3. atjd Cre
«pt. r ' AmJu/;
CAUTION.
WHEREAS Richard Spelaaan, of Lußent.ir(j pcrty of
in Albaii7 County, in the State of New- given -to
York, obtained from snc on or about ths i6th oi 2r> «jesr
Oilober last, two bonds or notes for rooo dolhrj
aach, and one for ioao dollars, for which 1 have , a |.
received no conlideration whatever, and which 1
am determined not to pay. I therefore thins it
proper ' o forwarn all persons from taking an >1- 1
fiffument or afßgnments of any or eitcer of them.
PHILIP ARNDT.
New-Eafton, (Penn.) Aug. s 5, '9B. SAD
1 ii— TJ AS
Remos r al to Germantown, ll ai
From 116, Alarhft-Strert. where!
his trie 1
0- Richard Bayley k Co. for r ';
the accommodation cf their friends during the pr *- . a pp e3 r ;
vailing fickueis in ths City, opened a ,re years p
oppefile to DoAor Martins, where they will find .
an extensive affortmeat of Clii«tzes, Muslins, Ia- , "
ble Unen, and every other article in the Liucndra- j
pery and Habeidafhciy line. | BY THI
august 19* lot
"The"Office of the Committee,
Appointed to superintend huilding of the j unc
Frigate to be loaned to the United .States, is remoS
III Spruce street—os which thpfe gen
tlemen wtio have not already csme forward with
their fubfaiptions will to tike notice^
ROBERT RITCHHI, rj H
; ' " 'advertisement
WHEREAS James Cummimg tS* Co. late of * .
the rity of Philadelphia, m.rchiints, have ,
aflig«ed over all their efiieils, real, personal and carn?(
1 mixed, to the lubfcribers, for tt.e benefit of all j,
t their creditor?, who ft all fubf'cribe the said aflign- QWQ
ment within fix months from the date hereof. . oj
" NO IMCE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all persons |o^in
who arc indebted to the said estate, that they are p wr a]
!t required to make immsdiate payment of their ref
peclive accounts, to the Aflignees, at their office,
>, No. 6», Dock Creet, in failure whereof a&ions
■e will he inl.ituted for the recovery of such debts as
t- are uot discharged accordingly.
0, John Travis, "1
d 7j kn Haddington, I AS] .
'James Taylor, I
Cornelius Comegys J
- august 18 mwf'iD
Pennsylvania Population Company.
» XT GTICE is hereby given to the
p JAI Stockholders, that an afTefTment o Sk
:r» Dollars is levisd on each (hare, —payable, one half
if- in 30, and the remainder in 60 days from the 3d
inft. which they are requested to pay to the Trea
fintr of the company, at the Company's Office,
oa No. 53 NorthFouith street, agreeably tothe time#
abova mentioned. The Proprietors willpleafeto
cd recollect the neceflity of being pun&ual, other
ay, j wife the forfeiture of thxir (hares will be incurred,
ck. agreeably to the conflitution.
1 By Order of the Board.
j SOL, MAR ACHE, Sec'ry. of t
» aujrust 7 t " thßtm will
FOR SALE, n«'
\ F.'.RM on the road leading to State Island, cart
I within four and an halimiles of Phil>delpl»ia, littl
t0 containing 45 acres in the highest ft ate of cultivation ~vhj
of which is meadow, the remainder up- dell
' n S land. There areon the premises, a new frame Home
ine afJ d Barn, with an excellent kikhen garden, contrn
ing a treat r.un-.Cer of frit Trcl-s.-Immediate posses- '
(ion will be given. >,
lan- foi terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis, ret ;
tt . 1 No. 98 South Third llreeti , Ul
ialv lßi ■
I Epidemic and Pestilential Diseases. s ari
M , a dissertation ON THE SOURCES THEREOF,
• TN which it is attempted to prove from a nume-
Vl "g 1 lOUS induaion «f fails, that they never arise
tank j from contagion, but are always produced by cer- Oi
awn I tr-in states and viciffitudcs of the atmosphere.
„, v . By CHARLES M'LEAS, Calcutta.
This valuable work, tcgcther with a view ol at
to " r the S.icnce of I.Ke, —and a I rcatife on the adion
y - "* of Mercury upon living bodies, and its application
0 re- I for the cure of diseases of indire& debility
it be Neatly printed on fine Wove paper, and bound in
nlfl» boards, are now to 1 e had at
W. YOUNG's Book Store,
I The corner of Second and Chefntit streets,
f 1 f Price One Dollar .J
j august 14 co ''
Bengal Goods,
u ,;il I CONSISTING OF 11
ic Dar BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, n
in his Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy
oa- Chintz Guzzinas Tookereys
I f in . F.lialiad Baftas Wrought Muflms
lid rio I Long Drawers
> I'arve Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
ALSO,
I Carolina Indigo
e I Coffee in hoglheads
I \ f e w pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
1 For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
snty John Craig,
ira, I No. I}, Doik-Mreot.
. . mwstf
iuly 14 -
Dodor GOURDES,
No 28, Pine-St reel ;
I Late SURGEON in the armies of St. Domingo,
r * I FFERS his fei vices to the inhabitants of Phi-
Irect. ladelphia in the line of hs proleffion. He
dtf 1 flatters himfelf that his long fuecefsful experience
ra. in the Weft-India fevers, will proourekim the con
-1 fidence of the citizens of this city ; particularly
„. I those attacked by theprefent Epidemic.
Wines august eo i3t
I lhe Subscribers have remov
e'veflcl I ed for the prcfetit from Penn street to Eleventh
-I.aht I street, between Filbert and High-i>reets.
lg ' Willie & Francis.
tC ef r-r—'
I 0- Wanted —Actuation in aPub-
I lie or Merrhants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
I bv a per foil regularly brought up to the Mer-
I cantile and Insurance buftnej's in London, he has
I lately been a vovage-from hence to the W efl-In
articular dies as Supercargo, on be wed recommended,
! —Pleafc to enq'vfe at the Printer *
J tot 1 august 11
* r'~
\Vqlvme. XIV.
Tirritorj of tie Unite* Stales nortb-VKit as the
River Oiaf.
Washington County, IT. _
WHERfiAb a Writ of: Attachment hath is
sued out of the court of Common Pica*
in laid county, diredlcd to the Sheriff-of laid
citfiity, returnable to Juu* term 1797» *' , ' le
suit of Giiifcn Greene, esq. again ft the Good*
and Chattels, Lands, TcHement- r Effe<3s, Rights
atjd Credits of fa Bar.-£t, f r Seventy D«Har>.
J»J<wtur**s t the laid Sheriff hath by virtue "f
said Writ attached a Lot of Land lying rn la«I
county, -containing one hutiiired *cre», the pro
perty of the Defendant. jV'o'/7C'£ is therefore
given to the said Asa Barret that unlcli he dcth
jppesr and give Special Bail to the Acl'<>n»
Judgment will be entered by Default) and the
land above-mentioned will be fold as the law
directs. Benjamin liks Gu/nan t
Prcthonotary.
nra-fcttn, July Vtl\ '7q? ; lawfiu
' WTTEIAKI M'LaWS,
SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Kcinoved to the Corner of Chel'nut
and Twelfth-ftreeta, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orderi of
his friends and wholesale cnllomers, with usual
attemioj & tape.ii.ion during the prevalence of
( theprefent Epidemic,.wheie it. has not made ita
' appearance this season, ncr during any of the
1 years past. v
j autruft 15
J ' " FOR SALE,
IBY THE SUBSCRIBERS, I?Q, E L EVE N TH-ST R f IT|
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
IVi'.lings tf Francis P
june 90. - dtf
j "DUTY on carriages.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agiceably to an afl of Congress of the
United States qf America, pal Ted at Phila
delphia thd lßth day of May, 1796, laying du
r ties din carriage* for the conveyance of pcrfans, and
repealing the former ails for that purpose—That
j there lhall be levied, collefled ind paid, upon all
I. carruges for the convfyauce of persons, which
Siall lie kept by or lor any person, for his or hec
own use, or to let out to hire, or for the convey
ine of pafleugers, the fcveral duties and rates boW
lS lowing, vis. dolls,
r e F«r and upon every coach v 15
upon every chariot II
1 upon every poll chariot I>
ls upon every j oft chaise II
upon every phseton, with or without top 9
upon every coachee 9
upon other carriages, having pannel ">
work above, with blinds, glasses, > 9
or «tirtains J
upon four-wheel carriages, having
frame posts and tops, with lied V 6
fpringi J
upon four-whael top carriages, with 7
1C wooden or iron springs on jacks j
upon curricles with tops 3
upon chatles with tops 3
upon chairs with tops 3
f upon sulkies with t«p> 3
" a * upon other two wheel top carriages 3
upon two wheel carriage* with ftccl>
168 or iron springs j *
° For and upon all other two wheel carriages a
lr . upon every four wheeled carriage, "J
e ' having framed posts and tops > %
aud rtiling upon wooden ipar- j
The Collector of the revenue oi the firft .'ivifton
of the firft survey of the diftriA of Pennfylvniiia,
I will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
iod, carriages, at Germantown, cn the Main street, a
hie, j little above the (ign of the King of Pruflia, of
ion I which all potVeffed of such carriagej are
"P- delirsd to take notice.
™ <e Notice is also given,
jj e f. To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled
spirituous liquors, that licenl'es will be granted to
( them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
1 retailing of win » in a left quantity, or in left
, t> I uantities, than 30 gallont—and one lieenre for
I trrying on the huGncf* «f retailing spirituous li*
•■' quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the
sei • fame time and at the Came place, by
F, JAMES ASH,
ime- Colleflor of the ill division of the id,
arise S*irvey of the diftriil of Hennlylvania.
cer- Office of Jnfpeflion at Germantown, ">
lid August, 1798. J
$J- Every denomination'of Stamps to be had
w of at said office,
dion .
at '*" 0- The Stamp Press is removed
nd in to 'be Office of InfpeiHon in Germantown, on the
Main >: reet, a little a6ove the frgi of the King ot
Pruflia,—where attendance will be given for the
accommodation ot thole who wilh any in(lr«m«nw
'* flamped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
o 7 « '"J""' " _
PETER BLIGHT
HAS r«moved bis Counting Houfc to his House
in the Nor(J)«rn Liberties near Nice Town, Ger
mantown road,
augrnft *l.
Mr. LENIZ,
Teacher of the Plana Forte,
larkets T) ESPECTFULLY offer* his for vices to ats-
JX-tend his IchoUrs and others at Germantown
—fhnuld as many as Twelve request his attend
ance he wiliwa t on them immediately.—Pieafe
[adeira to dirt-A to the Printer of the Gazette of the
United States.
august 10 * 1 w
reot. ~ Patent Ploughs,
iwstf r ~| 'O be fold for eafli by Jofcph Salter at Atlion
X Richard Weill, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and Jeffe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
ningo, preference to any other kind, as they require
of Phi- less team, brea* the ground b-ttcr tre kept m
n. He wrder at less expence and arc f. 14 at a cheaper
pericnce rate—the plan is much Gulplified and c.mfiUs of
the con- but one piece of call iron, with the handles and
icu'.arly be:m of wood ; they may befixtd with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with fcrewi and
13' taken off at pleasure
•iriOV- Patent tights for vending wilh inftruili-ns for
' making them may be had liy aj-ijlyiog to J-hn
,eventh- j^ ew j J0 U > or the fubferiher No. n» North
Fnoli/t-flreet.
' x " Who has for Salii
J- 1 - Or to Lease for a term of tears,
t\Pub- number of valuable tra.fii.of Land, well
, fituatedfor Mills Iron A'orks or Farms, m >ft
?' C vier* lv improved, lying chiffly in the county ot Hun
'\. L S tin,'.lon flat, ot Pcnr.fylvLaia. Those who may
IVVt In incline to view t\em will pieafe to apply *
juty ifLate and Important News, i'
1. 1
NEW VOIRS:. September 4.
we witnessed & mod pleasing fight
—feve 11 European Ih-ps all c mi»g up t
once 1—5.1 he hair America Tredwell, ;
from Greenock, brigs the latest news
our p pert by her bring Up to the ei hth
©f a mo! th later than here ofore
rec< ived. The lateil and molt important
articles follow. I
t-A'RIS, July 8. |
Extract of a letter from the Secretary of
Buonaparte, embarked on board the sri- j
gate Juno, before Malta, dated on the
12th of June.
" At half pad eleven o'clock I
open thy letter, to annou-ce to you a great
—Malta is outi. This place has this
tttoment furrendertd. Wc have not, per
haps, loft 25 men."
Letters from BruiTels, dated Jure 28,
fiate, that the Englith fq'uadrori appeared
again two days fiuce, iivfhe r of Often J,
and remained t-iere fi'mc hours ; but finding
that every hftig vras in rerdinels to it
a warm rrcepti .nj it soon fheeved off. •wo
Cutters, which formed the IreSr divifton, fired
(onie shot agalnft the battenia, ' at no harm
was done. The (lumber of English men of
war which cru ; ae in the YVeil Scheldt, in
the waters which separate the different
iflandis of Z'.alarid, and rf our coast, mufl
be very c indeed, for they are
seen every moment on all these diffeYeut
points. Ye Herd ay passed through this town
Oil his, way to Pari;, a courier, with dis
patches from the Swedish gtvvemment, which
art said to be of the impnrtanc."
Lttt:-rs fr imtlie right ba the Rhine
Aate, as a Certain fact, that an Au trian
at my of 40 000 ." cn, u der the o ders o
G neral Staad t { is matching t Francoaia.
where every thing is ready for their recep
tioni •* '
LONDON, July 6.
We have tie belt authority for fayi ig
thatth- r'bellioti in lieland is con fid er id t
be so complerely crtilhed, that the Marqui
of C rnwallis has written home that then
is no occ fioi) for any reii f. rct me' ts to b
lent to Ireland, I cotifrquewce, all th
TOiiitia regiments, either enipl yed undei j
brdfrj are countermanded, and will reriiaii)
in England.
Ycfterd y a Council was held, when ;
proclama'i n was scaled relative to a >.-«
coming in and going out of < he kingdom;
HQUS, OF PEERS.
June 29,
Their Lordftiips met at a Very e?rly hr.ur.
and proceeded to pass the few bihs w 1 ic
were before th m. Between thjee and foui
o'clock his. Majelly came into the House
hie robes, ttended by the prin. ipal officers
of state, and having taken his feat the
Commons were Ln for, and havi ig attend
ed accordingly, the Speaker, oh pr fenti's,
the bill of lupply, addressed his Majelly in
a ipeecli, ait Hows:
«• Mo/l Gracious Sovereign,
Your faithful Cemmo s humbly attend
yotir Majelly wiih the bills which dole the
ftipply for the public service of the year.
" In providing tor the effectual profecu
tton of the contell In which the country is
engaged*, your Commons have been a&u
ated by the conviction that 110 alternative
remained; and that it was only from the ex
traordinaiy efforts which the ci'ifis demand
ed, that the means cou'.d be derived of
maintaining the honour of your Maj> lly's
Crown, arid the security a d independence
tof the Bntilh Empire. Considerations of
temporary co. verience have accordingly
given way to the ur. etil duty of combining
the attention, so peculiarly important at
th : s time, to the sup;;. rc and liability of
public crtdit, ■ ith a determination to m ke
ftr. pr vision for the fevtral bia. ches
of the public r rvice. To these objefts tkc
delib. nations of yoUr Commons have beei
diligently applied; and thev have observed.
with prti - a-d fa'i fafliori, that the unex
ampled Verifiers, which the (late (f the
public affairs appeared to ihem iiidifpeiilibly
to require, have been accompanied with
juch demonstrations of loyalijr and zeal from
11 c'aflfcs of your fubjeits, by voluntary ex
ertions of every delci iption, to fu.ch an ,a
mount and extent as to afford the best ce;m
nient oa the hopes and the mod decifivr a
{wer o the misrepresentations upon which
the enemv founded the vain and prefum; tu..
ous projeft of detlro>ing the commercial
prosperity, the maritime greatnvfs, aud li
btrties of these kingd -ms.
" Your Commons, Sire, are' gr tified by
the persuasion that th ir proce p have
been, in all refpc£l , flrirtly conformable to
the inter ft and the fentiftients of a free and
Intel igent people, who co'.fider no efforts
too gieat which may be
the designS, and epe the attempts of the
enemy; and to pfef.rve that co ftitution
which they know to be the guardian of a!l
that is moll dear aid valuable to themselves,
and the best inheritance that cau'be trans
mitted to their defcenda ts.
" Vhe bills which I have in nly hand are
feveralfy entituled, &c. &c.''
His Majelfy then delivered the following
moft-graciotss speech. t
" My Lor s and Grtitleriten,
"By the measures adapted during the
prefenr Session, you have amply fulfilled the
mod fojemn acd unanitn Ut alfurancc which
I received from you «t its commencement.
«' The example of your firmnefs and con
flaney has been applauded and followed by
my fubjefts of every ra- k and condition in
life a spirit ®f voluntary and ardent exerti
on diffufed th otigh every part of the king
dom llrengthened aud confirmed our in
ternal f.curity ; the ftme sentiments have
contii ued to anima'e my troops of every de
scription ; and my fleets have met the me
naces of invasion by bio king up our enemies
in all their principal ports.
" Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
•< The extensive aud tquitablc fchtme of
, contribution, by whicfc so large a (We of our v
I txpciiCts wnl oe d< trayed within the year, c
, has 'effated the expectations of those who c
j vainly hoped to exhaust our feeans and (Je. ?
' ftroy o\ir public credit. You have been ena- j
bled to avail yctJrfelveS of farther resource t
! of comrtierce encreafed in txter t and vigour! 1 <
notw'ithftanding the difficulties or war, and i 1
have hid thfe fingularfatisfa&ion of deriving, j
at the fame moment, large additional aid
from individual exertions of u»exampled 1,
zeal, libe'ality, and patriotism. The provi- I ;
■ Son which ha 3 been made for the redemption j
J of tfc.e Land Tax, has also eftablithed a system |
p which, in its progr ffive operation, mdy pro
. duce the happiest confequenr e», by the in
. creafeof our Resources, the diminution of
our Debt. a"d the f pport of Publid Credit.
t •' My L'ordt ahd Grnt'rnim,
t " The designs ot tV.'e D laffttSed, carried
3 on in concert with our inv terate enemies,
. have been uxremitt'ngly pursued, but have
been happily and iff £tu4ly contrasted in
) this kingdom, by the general zeal and loy
j ahy of my fubje
) "In Ireland, jthey have broken out into
r the moll criminal adts of open Rebtilion.
J Every effort has been employed, on my part 1
j to subdue thi« dangerous fp: i f , which is I
j equ'fiy hptt ile to the interests a>d faf.ty of!
„ the ftritifli Empire. I caruo too strongly j
(- commend he unshaken fidelr-y and valour of
a my Regular, Fcnc b! and Militia Troops in
t lr land, aid that dft rm'tied fp : rit with i
I which try Ye*roatiry and Force?
c of that Kingdom have, flood forward i the
t defence oi the lives arid prope ties ot theit
„ fellow fubj' ;!s, and in fuppi rt of the li-^fu!
Government.
[j *' The ft iking ai d honourable proof of
»larity and puljlic spirit, wh ch o mary of ,
e my Fcncible and Mi 1 tin regiments in t' is |
„ ki' gdom have manifefted on this occs&nn,
►■as already received the tullt-ft te imo: y of
'heappr bacioft of Parliament. Thisco dudt j
, perfonallv so honorable to the i dividual i
afftirdsthe pledge both 06 tie mili
tary ardour, which a&u test'-i.- valuable part
r of our natio- al defence, and o* t.eir affefti
. onatec mcern for |he fafety and happi ess of
Ireland, which are cflentially coiwefted with
, the genera! innrefts o: thr" B itifli Empire.
Vith the advantage of this f«p or:, and af
ter he diftinguifhed'and important success
which has recently attended the operations
p of my arms the principal force of the
Rebels, I rrult the time is fail approaching,,
A-hen these no ' feductd from their allegi
, iDC'' -vill br brought to a jufl sense of the,
<■ uilt they have incurred and will entitle
themselves to forgivenefs, and to that protec
tion vvhich it is my constant w ; (h to f.fford
to every class ar.d cond'tion ot my fubje&s,
r who manifcf} their desire to pay a cue obe
dience p the laws.
Thin temporary interruption of tran
, quility, ar*d all i s attendaftt calamities, mult
... be at'ributed to those p rt icious piinc.ples
t which have been ioudy pro agated in
j. that cou> try, and which, wherevet tiicy have
prevailed, have never failed to produce the
~ moll diiaftr us effci-ls. With fu h warniisg
before us, fmfible of the danger which we
are called upon to reprl, and of the
j we have to preserve, iet us conti ue firmy
e united in a deiermined reliflance to the de
fignß of our enemies, and in the defence of
j. that Conllitution which has been found by
; s tJcperitnce to iwfute to us, in so eminent a
N degree public liberty, national llrergth, an
, a the teeurity and comfort of all clafles of the
t tommun ty.
j ' It is wiily by perfeverafice in ihis line of
contJuct that we can hope, undir contt
>„ nuance of that Divine Protection which we
b
, c l ave so abundantly experienced to conduct
thin arduous contett to a happy issue, and to
maintain uridimii ilhed, the fefurity, honour,
and lalting prosperity of the country."
0 ________
r PAi<IS.
" COUNCir. OF FIVE HUNDRED.
e ijtlvMeliidor, July i.
s The Council received a meflage from the
e Directory, which was read by the Secreary.
1 ' For a long time, fay the Directory, the
I Government of Malta has (hewn itl'elfholtile
io France. It afforded proteition to emi
grants, as also to the soldiers of Conde's ar
e my. Ht-r constitution ought to have obliged
y her to übicrve a Itrict neutrality, but (he al
-1 .vays aited in lavor of the enemies of France,
n The French,, who V* ere friends to liberty ai
Vlalta, were ill treated and confined. In
a manifefto of the ittth of October, 1793,
the Grand Matter declared that the porta
of the Island should be (luit againlt French
velfels, and that he (houldrecogivze the Am
b batlador but as a Charge d'Affaires of the
King, without faying any thing of the Repub
,l lie ; lie declared he could not, nor would not
recognize it. On the 9th of June, of the
pre lei it year, a requefi; was made by the
French General for water, which was ref-fed
P by the Grand Mailer, who declared ironical
e ly, that he could not admit but two (hips in
-0 to the port. Dared he thus to insult the
j French army, commanded by Buonaparte,
s fay the Direcfoiy I The toth of June, the
French were on Uiore early in the morning,
and Malta was inverted, and the tow n can
nonaded on al tides. The betieged made a
1 (ally, in which General Marmont, at the head
1 of the 19th brigade, toedc the ftai\dard of the
i, order. On the 1 ith, the Knights iurrender
ed the tow n and the fort, and renounced their
property in the Klaiitl to the French Repub
lic.
e The Directory adds, we found at Malta
two yelMs, one frigate, four gailies, 1200
I pieces of cannon,4o,ooo mtiikets.i, joo.ooolb
powder, and other ammunition, of which the
Direc'tjury had not received the particular de
e tails."
Duviquet.—- w At length your civic alarms
" are dilffpated. Everyone of you, unea(y as
' l to the destination and fate of the French Heet,
vvhich (ailed from Toulon, was anxiotifly ex
-1 peCfing intelligeace from it. Buonaparte has
Y lent you such new sas is worthy .of himfelf.
n His firff dispatch is begun wuii victory—>vith
a couqueft. This proud island has then at
length submitted to the yoke—this island,
>" which was the Itrong hold of aristocratic pre
judiceand monalfic (uperftition, nothingcould
e defend it againlt the jult vengeance of the
l. Great Nation; neithei its superb ramparts,
the work of 'l'ree ages, nor its noo pieces of
cannon, 1 or the recolleition of its ancient
s gtory. vVtiat Solyman was unable to effect
in 1565, if era liege of fevcral months —what
'> h s fui.c'lf'ir- have not been able to /ccom
)f phlh, though goaded by the numerous intuits
which were offered to ilic Ottoman fijn;—Bu- '
onaparte executed in a moment. With what
coufnlion will England and Riiflia, who al
ways reckoner this port in the Mediterrane
an as; fjctire to them, be now overwhelmed ?
Malta is again free from the yoke of the Car
thagenians; and, thanks to tile new Romans,'
this people are now about to reftvVne their for
mer political and commercial He
then prppofed, in honor of this bi iliant pre- |
-Uide to the fird victories ofour n.-tval army,that
the new fitcceffes which its chief, is medita
ting, a retblution that the vi&orious French
army at Malta has deserved well of tlier coun
try.
Efchaffereaux, the elder, fupport-d this
resolution, which was piaffed unantmoufly.
The cannon were then fired, as a token of
victory and joy.
BUONAPVR-P.. |
Various are npinibt.3 refpeititig Bi;tjna. '
parte's defttnation : j
1. He is said to be on his way to India., j
For this purpose he must land at A lexaodria, 1
pass his army over about ,100 miles of sandy
defart, under the burning rays of a tropical
Am, almost vert cal there at this season.
Arrived at Saez, he must find tranf orts
I ready -to convey his a my to the coast of
! Malabar, tinrppofed or un vanquished by our !
' fleet in India. Th'fe difEculti « to us would
j seem itifurmountable, did we not know the
' enterprising spirit and hitherto refiftlefr, p-nv- |
er of the modern H;Vonibal. Once landed 1
on the Coast of Jrlala >. r, he will be received ■
1 with open amis byTipp j S )ib,who breathes •
rev ng- for his late humiliation. We re
c die© the fyltem of colonizing Egypt,
Which wa» mentioned in *ls French legi'l.i
tur . We rccb'led the proclamation of the
• governor of the M..uricius. And we recoU
ie ' that a French direilor declared that
Britain was to be attacked in the most vul-
I nerable part. 111 opposition to this mult be
; set the improb hilttv that Buor.aparte wculd
rifi< a diminuti n of bis fame by so hazar
i dous au expediti' n. Yet we b.lieve tkat
| this report has occafi ludferious difc«ffioiiß
iu tke cabine' and at the India-houfe
2. It is fa d that Ilia ofcjeft to take pus.
feflion of some of the prin - ipal itlands in the
Mediterranean, Candia, Cyprus, Malta—
perhaps Sicily. The sovereigns 6f ihofj
islands are uot, it is true, at war wjth
France ; but we remember the fable of the
wolf and the lamb ; facile ejl opptimerc in
nocentem.
To effeiSl a levolution, and to re establish
a republic in Greese, has been mentioned as
the design of the expedition. To the eye
, of philofophyj or of general policy, 1 change
in the Turkish government appears desira
ble. And a close coritfpondenct has taken
place between the French and the Greeks
through the illand of Corfu, which the for
mer have feiztd. This indeed will not be
ftri6ily confident with the news which in
duced the late emprtfs Catharine to call a
young Ruffian prince Conftantine..
1 4 There are many, who affirm that
1 Bucy aparte is to penetrate through the
Turkish dominions into Poland, in order to
: rtftote the Poles to their former indepen-
I d-'nee, and to the rank which they once
; obtained in the lift of Dations. The French
® £ren#ral told bia '.army that they to<sk tio
horses becanfe they would be well mtfu-'ted
as soon as they reached the place of their
f destination. It will naturally be asked,
' whether France is wil ing to attack in Po
-1 land the united p wer of Austria, Rufiia,
aud Prussia ? Perhaps file is sensible of the
; irimical fentirpents of these p.owers, and will
not wait till thty ft ike the firft blow,
f 5. Nor are those wantirg, who think it
" probab.e that the French army will invade
: the Crimea, and the southern parts of Ruf-
fia, difpoflefs her of Oczakow, and strength
' en the Turkish frontier againlt that empire.
> We have thus dated the various opinion*
that prevail refpe&ing this mysterious ar
mament, and shall leave cur readers to form
their own c. nclufions.
NEW-YOKK, September 4.
The Morning Herald favs, " It was con*
. fidently reported yederday th:;t Mr. Pittwas
. no longer Mi' ifter, Lord Grenvi le having
adlually been appointed First Lord of the
Treasury, and the Hon. Dudley Ryder
Chancellor of the Exchequer. Though we
think it ntft' improbable that MV. Fits may
pever ft his foot again in the House of
Commons, wc do not believe that his refig.
nation ha> yet been accepted,
" The twd component interells which
form the present administration, both fee
the ind fpenfable necessity of a change, and
are ftduloufly preparing to profit by this
even. : the Grenvilles, with the aid of Mr.
Du' das, think themselves Sufficiently pow
erful to assume the land: the Duke of Port
land, Earl Spencer, and the Chancellor, are
of a different opinion, and are pru
dential measures accordi gly.
A Paris artic ! e of 26th June mentions that
lette s had been received from Cepenhagen,
advising that the Ruffian fleet, consisting of
30 fail, had paffid the Sound, an i entered
the North Sea.
NOTICE,
Bank of the United States,
TAuguJl 18, 1795.
HOSE persons who have Notes of Bills to
pay at this Bank, are inforra^,
1 That regular Notices will be put under a seal
ed cover direi9ed tote refpeilive payer and
s lodged in the Poll Office every Monday {until
• the fcturti of the Citi/ens.
, G.JIMPSON, cqjhier.
1 august 18 }AWtf
; DESERTED
FROM his guard house at Marcus Hook, a Ma
rine Soldi r, bilong ng to the
{hip of wsr Ganges—his name is Henry Hylauds,
| jan mciican born, is lull lix feet in height, well
proportioned, long black hair, w th dark com
: plexion, and is rearketl with the small pox. Who
' I ever will appn hen Hbe said Hylands, and deliver
. 1 him on board the lhip Ganges, at IV,arcus Hcok,
, or at the catnp of captain Edward Miller, over
SJiuylkiU, (hall receive the rtward allowed by law.
DANIEL CARMICK,
Lieutenant of Afarinet. '
auguf) 31 *ei>4i
t £? A large Key found and left
. 1 at the ( fSce of the Editor—Where the Owner
5 j fciay'ruceivjeit. augaft 31
Xi)C csasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER t>.
PtKjesft rJNiA, Jf-
In the Name and by the Authority of the Coci
monweilth of Pennf/I* ania,
By THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governor if the saul Commonwealth,
A PROCLAMATION;
. TTTHE.REAS, it. has been Sated t > me by
VY the
• That on tile right of Situr
t day the fir ft ipifauti the Hout'e now occupied by
j the fat"l Back, commonly called Carpenters
! Halty was burjrfir'oufiy entered bvfme villain,
I or villains unknown, anil tbefeir&in a consider- ,
able oumbef of Bank Notes ps -various delrrip !
tions and deaorijinitio;!-; weris stolen and carritd •
away: 10 -THb: INTENT that the perpetrator, '
or perpetrators of so great a crime, and the
acceffarie?thercto, mavbediic vered aruibrought
I to condign punifmnent, I have deemed it expe
l dient to ifftte this Proclamation, n rpby offer- !
j ing and promising a ttiiWAsno.f ONE TIIOU*
! SAND DOLLARS to any nerfon, or pet finis j
! who fhail difeover tlie perpetrator, or perpetra- j
j tors of the f< id crime, or any of them, or ar.y !
' accefi>ry thereto, before or after the t > be ;
paid an the LortviiHion of ail or any of the essen- '
i iters: ANI) I do hereby further offer and pm
mife A FR2B AND ENTIRE PARDON
unto any one of the perpct'ratois, or acceffaiies
aforefaid of the comrniflion of the laid crime,
who (hall make a full and l2ti>fa<3ory dliclofure
of all the circnraflancesrelative to the contriving
and aecv>mptifhing the fame, aud of the names
and places of abode of his or her aflociatcs, ii>
that such associates may be apprehended and
convi,-s«d: AND all the judges, Ju fliers She
riffs, Constables, and other •i'ubhc Officer# of
this Commonwealth (according to the duties f
their r;ffe,£liv» flations) are hereby required an I
enjoined to use all lawful means to drtecl and
bring toiuP.ice e.ich and rveiy prrion concerned
•in
fa id.
GIVEN under n>y hand and the Great
S.al or the State, at Cermailtown, the
(L-. 3.) third day of September, in the year of
oor Lord, one thonfaod I'evew hundred
and ninety-eight and of the Common
wealth Om twenty-third.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Bf the Govt rnor:
, A. J. Dallas.
Secntary of tbs Ccmmth'wcaltb.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
September j, 1798.
Fellow-Citizens,
Impelled by the awful progress and un
paralleled malignity of the prevailing fever,
\v/c are constrained ,to address.your feelings,
as well 33 y»ur rea()n, in ofder to avert the
fatal deftruttion which, with rapid (hides,
is pervading our ill r ated city and fuburhs.
The belt jkill ofour phyfjeians, and all
the power 9 of n.&dcme, it m.ift be acknow
ledged, hive pro* c unequal in the contest
with this divauringpoifyn.
With the moll ffcCiing fympat! y and
anxious folicittide, we h u ve to the btft of
our judg-i\icn;s, er«*Bvoured to employ, as
eircumftariees appeared to require, the pow
er and the means ehtrufted to us, in arreft
i g its pre grefs, a>t alkvi tin£ its concomi
tant miseries. We (hall continue to em
ploy them with urffmitting zeal; but wr
have neither the jower not the mean to
accomplish all the measures necrffary
to check its exteu/ion, or provide for the
pressing exigences of the moment. The
powers del gated, and appropriations made
by law. to the intitutions under our direc
tion, are impotelil indeed, when compared
to the magnitude >f the occalion.
It remains for «ur fellow citizens to at
tain, by their enerjy, the etoda which alone
can (Vrp its progrefc and diminish its honors.
We have, in cotjtindlion with the Guar
dians of the Poor, caused tents to be ereft
ed on the east baik of the Schuylkill, for
the accommodation of the. indigent ; where
near twelve h.mdred are already provided
for, out of the fund appropriated si r tlio or
dinary relief of (he poor. This is but a
partial of the evils which
environ thriifanids who have a claim upon
the philanthropy of those who are i«# more
fortunate circnmftances.
I'he difficulty of prep ring a place of. re
fuse, at prefent,in thecoun'ry, is too well
known ; nnd the expence attending the re
moval of a family has discouraged many
fron the attempt, who are in circumstances
to live comfortably at home.
What remains to be done ? Citizens of
refpeflability aud influence ! Come forwa<d,
and form yourfelvts into a committee for
the purpose of ere&ing on the weft bank
of the Schuylkill, ail tie tents that cau be
collected; let the tents be floored with
boards, 'and made as comfortable as pollible
if tents cannot be had, boards in abnn lance
may be procured for the ereftion of fhed<.
Admonilh those citizens who have no place
of refuge, to take (helter theie, particulatlr
those from the. east part of the" city, the dif
triilof Southwark, andthe Northern Liber
ties^—in short, ALL who can leave their
homes without manifeft injuty ; except
those who are nece/Tary for the prote£lion
of the city at)d liberties.
The committie fhculd iave the general
fuperistendarce and regulation of the tent's,
and authority to preserve order ; contrast
for certain "ffeead. meat, vegeta
bles, wqo3, &c. at the lowe f puffihle rates.
Those who are not in circumstances to pay,
must be fuppHed by public bounty.
It is at best an unequal, p rhaps an unjnft
mo«3e of railing money by an appeal to the
humanity of generous indiviJuals ; but ifon'
any occasion it may be juftified, the present
mr.y be assumed without helitatiog.
We call yoCtr attention to the aiSual and
undifa;viifed state of our city. Corfider the
mortality and rapid increase of the sick at so
early a period. View the lift of your pby
ficians, and marl how few are at their pojlt ;
ard, we believe yiu will think with us, that
the 'prefcrvatiun of health it only to be at
tuicjfcil by fligiit.
Do rot flatter yourfelveo, fellow-c itiiens
that this pifture is too highly coloured , w,
speak From conviftion, and a knowledge e ■
faits ; and doubt not.'ut t ; iat the lives o;
hundreds} perhaps of thousands, may be pre.
served by the adoption of these or similar
measures.
Bj order of the BoaWl of Managers of
the Marine and City Hofpitalt.
-WILLIAM JONES, Prefidtm.
Attest,
Wm. Penrose, Clerk pro tern.
Germanto'wn', September 3, 1798.
THE Citizens of Philadelphia at present
refiduig inand near Germantown, being deep,
lv aff'eiled at the accumulating diftretfcs of
their fellow citizens who remain in the city
of Philadelphia, and particularly imprelfed
(from the address of the Board of Health of
the ill infant, and the resolutions of a Com
niitteeof the Board ot Managers ot the Marine
and City Hospitals and the Guardians of the
Poor, dated this day) of the neceflity of iriu
mediately afforaingall the refiefin theirpow.t
er, convened this afternoon at the Union
School-House* for the purpose of advancing
the objeits designated in the address and re
folntions —
The Hon. Thomas Mifflin, Esq. in the
chair.
James Gib/on, Secretary.
The Chairman read to the meetingtfee Ad
dress of the Board of Health its pubiifhed in
the papers —and the following Resolutions of
a Committee of the Managers of the Marine
and City Hospitals, anil a Committee ot the
Board of Guardians of the Poor.
"AT a meeting of a Committee of the Ma
nagers of the Marine and City Hospitals, Snd
a Committee of rhe Board of Guardians of the
Poor, for the purpose of deviling means for
the rei.ef and allifiauce. of perlons desirous of
removing,from the City and Liberties during
the prevalence of the present malignant fever,
Rejbl<ved, That a general fiibfeription be
folicired on loan, the Aim so fubfcrtbedHd bo
reiniburfed out of any fund which the Legifil
lature may hereafter appropriate for the pur.
pole.
Rejoined, That Peter Miercken, William
Jones, Isaac Price, and Jonatha:
Rubcfon, be appointed to receive themome
lo raised to be applied under the directions o
tilt Managers of the Marine and City Hofpi,
tals and the Guardians of the Poor. |
Approved by the Board of Guardians o]
the Poor.
PETER MIERCKEN, President/"
Alms-House, \
Sept. 3. /
Approved by the Board of Managers ofl
the Marine and City Hospitals.
Health-Office, Sept. 4., 179 Si. j
WM. JONES, President.
Attefi, William Penrose, Clerk, p. 1
The Chairman then proceeded to mention ]
the extent 10 which the Board of Managers |
and the Guardians of the Poor wereauthorif- j
ed by 1/w to provide funds tor defraying the j
expences of these eflablifhments. and infor
mation being gjven by other members of the j
expenditures and appropriations of these
funds already made, which rendered them in- |
adequate to the demands of the present exi- |
gency—the meeting came to the following
resolutions ;
Refoived, That a fubfeription for a loan
not exceed ■ g 3 ~000 Dollars for the as
sistance and relief of cur suss ring fellow ci«
tiz?' s, be forthwith opened,
j That R bert Wain, Richa d Hill Mor.
: ris, General or"an, Isaac Morris* Richard
Peters, R b :rt Smith, Charles Shoemaker,
WM am Rawle.Daniel Smith, Henry Pratt,
Charles Middle, Samuel W. Fifhtr, George
Latimer, Jt»hn Wall, Robert hart, Willi
am Sanfom, Robert Railion, and V' illiara
Buckley, be a conimiti.ee to procure fub
fcriptiißi to the'faid loan.
That tin* Committee be autharifed t#
borrow of any of the Banks', such (urn, not
exceeding the sum now agreed to be raised,
as it may be nectffary to advance for the
purpose i of these relniutious.
That the committee fhaL appoint one of
their number Tr.afurer, to whom each mem
ber (hall from time t> time pay over his coU
leftions, ai'd the Treasurer fhaij, on receipt
thereof, deposit t«e fame in the Bank of
Fennfylvania, in an account to be opened
for that ■ uvpofe, and fubjeol to the drafts of
the Managers of tie Marine and City Hof.
pitals, 3nd the Guardians #f the Poor, af
ter deducing the amount of any monies
advanced on the credit of the fund.
Refrived', That the Secretary catife the
proceedings of this meeting to be pubiifhed
in one cr more of the newspapers of theci
ty of Philadelphia. Adjourned.
Signed by order of the meeting,
THOS. MIFFLIN, Chairman.
Attefi, JAMES Secretary.
Gtrmanlo-wn, Sep ember tji, 1798.
Mr. Fen no,
Please to publish the following tickrts
forSeled and Common Councils, at the ap.
preaching eleiSion, a:- J oblige one of your
fellow.citizens.
SELECT COUNCIT.
Godfrey Haga Thomas Willing, jun.
Daniel Smith |ofeph Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL.
Lawrence Herhert
Henry Drinker, jun.
Gideon H. Wells
Calper-W. Marris
Thomas P. Cope
George I'ennock
'1 homas Parker
Mich.iel Kepple 1
Joseph Hopkinfon
Kearney Wharton
Conrad Gerhard
George Fox'
John Ru,;aa
E 1 vrird- U andolpfi
Maicolm M'DonnaM
Jof( ph North (Union-street)
L vi Hollin^fU'orth
George Willing
Edward Prnnington
Jonathan Jones.
Agreeable to notification in fe»etal ofntie
newspapers of the City of Philadelphia, fe
quettit g a metting of the merchants, trad
er*, mechanics and other citizen', at the
Union School House in Germantown, 00
Wednefdajr 29th Augnft. at 4 o'clock P.
M. in order to fix on a suitable charaAer to
be offered at the enfning election to repre
('- • :sent the City of Philadelphia in Cotigiefs,
mi the vacancy occasioned by the dctafe of
John Swanwick, Esq. and also irt the next'
Congress—A senator, to represent in the
state senate. the city of Philadelphia and
Comity of Delaware—and- fii persons to re
present he city in thehoufe ofaffembly—
A numerous and reipeiftable body of the
Freemen of he city attended. . Thebufi
nqfs of the mee'ing being opened, a letter
from captain Joseph Anthony, addressed to
the chairman of the 'meeting was read, cx
preffwg a decided opinion on the necessity
of uniting the interest t*f the friends of the
eonfti; Otiort and government in the choice
of 'heir repreferitative,that he conceiv *d Mr |
Robert Wain well qualified for a feat in
Congress; afnd folieiting his fellow citizens
that his name way not-be offered in compe
tition With that gentleman, who has his fill
concurrence and approbation.
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unanimously carried as
the Candidate for Cong efj.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
as state Senator'for the diftri& compoled of
the Cfty and County of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware; and as members tore
prefent the City in affembly—
'Jacob Hill'zhcimtr,
Lawrence St del,
Andrew Bayard,
William Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. FiJ!.<er,
JolTn Clement Stacker.
The qtteftion being put, will this meeting
support the fort-going licket ? it was unani
mously agreed to, and it was also recom
mended t(V the freemen of the City of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their ftipport, and to fhofe of th? Coun
ty of Philadelphia nnd County of Delaware
in support of the Stnacor.
Ordered, that the minutes of the meeting, >
flgned by the chairman aid secretary, be l
published in the newspapers of the City, for
the general information of the eleftors.
LEVI HOLLI GSWORT'H,
Chairman.
Daniel Smith* Secretary.
Germantnivn, 29th Augujl, 1798.
Johora TRANSLATIONS from Ham
burgh Papers.
HAGUE, June 12.
The squadron under the command of
Rear Admiral Lacrosse failed from Havre,
and it is supposed he proceeded to O er
bourg. O! Bred. The Englilh squad
ron had not itfelf off <he mouth of
ifee Seine, since the lad engagement with the
two French Corvettes. -
Lieutenant General Daendels returned
Sunday lad,.from Pans: He wan accom
panied by several French officers of rank,
and when he arrived at his lodging, the
French General in Chief Joubert r sent him
two grenadiers as a guard. He is not kept
under \arred but walks puhlkkly about.
Time will • (how how the dispute between
him aud the Executive will end. The lat
ter have' amiifed the order they had sent to
arr'ed hinrf. Charles'Lacroix the
Trench Minider near or Republic is deep
ly implicated in-this affair ; he accused Ge
neral Daendels of having made use of coun
ter-revolutionary language in his pretence.
The whole is considered as a villainous in
trigue "of a person 'employed bv the late
French Minister to ruin the patriotic gene
ral. The Executive Direftorj of France
sent the following letter to Charles Lacroix
a short time before his formal recall •
"Citizen,
« The Executive direftorv has received
the reports yri'u forwarded relatively 1 to the
notes which it iranfmitted to you' concern
ing Brahain Durange. After a thorough
examination of 'hat affair, it is convinced
that you can no longer keep that individual
about you; without the greatest danger to
the public caofe, aad to yourfelf. Yo«
ought in co"sequence immediately to break
off all communication with him, and let
fftnc other person continue the translation
of the Batavian cdnftitution, you had charg
ed him" w th. It is of' importa ce that you
should without delay requ ft the executive
direft-oty of the Batavian Republic to-or
der Brahain Ducange out of the Batavian
territory as'there is reason to believe that
be has no right of ci'izenlhip."
M2RLIN, President.
LEGARDE, Sec'ry gen."
MADRID, May 24
The Spanith government iffued or
ders that all thofc officers with whofh funds
proceeding from prizee, made by the French
privateers, have bren d posited, (hould with
ou' de ay pay the fame into the treasury of
the confuU of the French Republic, who
a-e[made responsible that the fame, be paid
to their refpedive owners.
The French privateer Leger boarded the
the Perfev«rance. after an engagement of
two hours, and carried them into Arenfdal.
The Batavian privateer De Zeehond has
captured another Engliffi (hip and carried
Jicr into the fame port.
PARIS. June.7.
Jean Debry set off this day with his fa
mily for Raftaslt. His inftruftions, it is
said, will furnifh a new proof to Europe of
the fineere desire of the Directory to hasten
the conclusion of peace on the continent,
in order that the whole force of the French
Republie might be oii-efted against En
The ex deputy Poultier, editor of the
Ami eslois, leaves Paris. He is appointed
chief of brigade of the Gendarmerie in the
four departments on the Rhine.
MILAN, May 28.
Th,e state prisoner. prince Ruffo Caraffa
who was confined in the castle of St Elmo,
at Naple , has made good his efeape, and
otince Pi'.natelli the minister, who it was
fufpefted had favoredhi» flight was removed
from office. The king ordered thereupon,
that all the (Tate prrfohfr3 kept in the dif
ferent fortreffes (hould betred.
A Maltese flotTlla comp >fcd of the (hip
Zacharias of 74 guns and* 2 frigates has,
after a severe engagement captured three
Algerine enrfairs and a unifian cruiser, on
the coast of Sicily- The Neapolitan squa
dron under the comma d of the marquis de
Caraccioli attacked a fl j et of A'gerine
cruifcrs off the coast of Calabria, captured
the flag (hip, funk two others aud libeiatfcd
five prizes.
STOCKHOLM, June S.
From the i'outhern pro* nees of the kingdom
we have received the p'eafing intelligence of a
rich crop to be sxpeiled • this year. But he e,
and in our vicinity, things hear a gloomy afpe-it
on account of the extraordinary draught. We
hive had not a drop of rain these two months
pall.
The course of exchange has again fallen a
little here, ia confequenceof the important finan
cial operations of Raphael, an Israelite merchant
of this place; and this day the loft on govern
ment bill? was red i<«d from to 11 per cent
A violent fire broke out on the 2d at midday,
in the quarter of the capital called Sudermalm,
and consumed in a few hours a number of laige
houses and two breweries, with zooo tons of
grain.
STRASBOURG, June 7.
The clergy of the department of the Upper
Rhine, whose inhabitants are almost exclusively
of the protestant church, have, in a council held
at Su'z, res >lved to celebrate divine lervice oniy
on fiec. de .
Profcll r Koch, member of the national in
stitute, and ex-deputy of tin iegifiative alleuibly
of France, having been invited by F anco's de
Nentchateau to aid him in hi# important diplo
matic labours, has set out from here for Sclz.
sfLZ. June 6.
This litfle town has quite unexpectedly be
came the scene of important negociations, and
will thereby acquire a diflinguilheci rank in the
Itiflory of the present time. The two firlt con
ferences were held at the house of Francois de
Neufchateau, because the lodgings of the Aus
trian minilter were not yet Jn order, hut on the
2d the held y. c mnt Coben ;
zel's. The cx-diredlor, d eiTed in red and black,
the state dress of our mipjfters, and attended by
a troop of cavalry, proceeded to the hoole of the
la ter. Citizep GeofTroi, the secretary of lega.
tion, assisted at the conferences; citizen Gallois,
it seems, attends the ex diredlor merely a' a
j friend. It ha« been observed, that the two ue
i gociators are very well pleased with each pthei
'' and this circumstance gives rif- to the mod flat
tering hopes of a speedy cbnclufion of the nego
ciations. Citizen Koch'of Stroftourg who has
arrived here, is a colleague of Francois de Neuf
chateau, both being members of the natiiijja'
institute; an! he was once the inftru<£lor o
count de (Jnbenzel, who studied for feyeral yeats.
the diplomatic fcie.nce under that celebrated pro
fe(P)r at Strafburg
" BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEW-YORK. September 5.
Number of burials iu the city for 24
hours eudipg yellerday at noon—Adults,
17—Children, 2. Fourteen of the above
; of the prevailing fever.
1
| The Executive Diredory, to prevent all
: criminal correspondence with- the eaemy,
fiave forbidden, by a form 1 deor.e. all A
i merican vessels to enter into the poit of Ha
vre, as they have been previously interdici
i ed from the ports of Bred, L'Orient, R«-
j chefdi-t, Toulon and Dunkirk. T e A.me
ricatl (hips now in Havre are immediately to
put to lea, Lon. pap.
' A convoy is appointed for America, to
fail from Portsmouth the 25th «f July, and
to call off Cork, for such American vessels as
rrwy be there ready to- fail.
The Tesel is declared to be blockadedv;
the peutral vessels perfiftjng in. going tfai
■ ther, are liahle to seizure; Notice to this
effed has been given to the Dani(h, Sweed
i(h, <uffian, an<B American consuls, at,our
several ports. —Courier.
BOSTON, September 1.
The whole number now sick, including
thofc on the recovery is thirty-two—-and
two perfsns only have died thereof since the
lad return, on the,27th inft. 1 .
By order of the Selectmen,
Wm. COaPER, Town-Cletk.
Augud t 798... \ ,
« From accurate returns from the phyu
cians, jt i appears there are only nineteen
persons sick of the fever ; ten of whom are
oh the recovery—-t-.ree only have died since
the lad report on the 29 h inft,
By order of the SeleSmen,
Wm, COOPER, Town-Clerk.
Augud 31.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Auguji 28-
Report of the Committee, from Monday 20th
inft. one o'clock, P.M. to Monday ijth inft. orle
o'clock, P.M.
tolas Jicl Died.
From Monday to Tuesday, o
Tuesday to Wednesday, 5 o
Wednelday to Thursday, j a
Thursday to Friday, 3 3
Friday to Saturday, 4 2
Saturday to Sunday, r 2
Sundav to Monday, I »
Recovered since Friday last —one.
Monday, I o'clock—Seventeen persons in all
sick of the fever, twelve of whom are recover
ing, and one only very dangerous.
JOHN GODDARB.
For the Committee.
From the last Report of the Committee it
appears, that the prevalence and malignity of
the Fever has, in l'ome measure, abated; and
among the many melancholy c'ircumftancees at
tending this alarming disorder, it is no small
coßfolatien to find that Physicians and others,
whose afiiftance has been and still is so highly
neceflary, continue unremitting in their exer
tions for the relief and comfort of tlte sick and
diftrefled. Much credit i> due in this refpeit to
Doflor Caftex, a French gentleman, resident in
this town, whose r«adiniifs and alfiduity have
been truly exerH»'ary. i
FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Subfcrib?rs>
Deliverable at any of the port» on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the post will be a'tended to.
Levi Ho'lingswcrth & Son.
august aB. ~ dtf
P'HIL AD E L P HI A ,
THO"■ SDAY <VEN!VG. SEPTEMBER 6.
03~ 72><? Patrons of this Gazette
are respectfully informed, that o-iving
to inevitable circumstances, publi- .
cation wi/l be suspended for the pre
sent.
C/" IVe are deftrtd to mention, that on ac
count of the fever having made its appeal ance (
in the Qjfice rf the " True m.-rican,' the next (
numb:/- of that paper «ui!l not b: puhlifbed until
Monday or Tuesday next.
Written ly a Friend, andfifl pulltjhed in the
Philadelphia Gazette.
Died, on Tuesday last, in the y ear
of her age, Mrs. MARY FENNO con. (
fort of Mr. John Fenrto, Editor of the Ga
zette of the United States.
To the chara&erof ths excellent woman,
in which we have feeri nature, virtue a:.d
religion embellished with all the beaut'es of
a refined and elevated imagination, it is im
pofiible for us to do justice. Whilst we % ;
sympathize with an amiable and afflicted fa- |
mily, we can only recommend to the ac- j
quain.tances of the deceufed, ta those who
knew her worth, the ufeful retrofpedt of a
life of uninterrupted domestic felicity, and
an invariable example of benevolence and
truth : In fine the example of one who saw
" theheigth of allher.Hcav.n was goodness/'
It is with finguhrregre.t we announce the
death of Dr. SAMUEL COOPER, one
of the Physicians of the City>Hofpital.
Science and -humanity will long deplore the
loss ps this excellent young man. He h»d
with uncommon diligence laid in a latge
ftcck f every kind of knowledge. His
genius was uiitlKffal, aivd his taste exquisite.
His-friend? and preceptors had destined him
to the liigbcft honours m Ifis profeflion, and
the molt excenfive ufefulnefs to society.
The-e is scarcely a hut in the suburbs of
our city, in the neighbourhood of hi 3 form
er place of refiderice, that does not contain
monuments of his ficifl. But great as his
knowledge and taleifts wre, they were the
east estimable part of his chara&er. He
\"as an Israelite indeed in whom there was
110 guile His offerings upon thb altar of
humanity were numerous. His last, wai
IMSELF.
though severe indilpofition, Mr. Peter
Fearon, merchant, of this city. He was
a man of the ftriftefl integrity, and his los»
wi'l be sincerely regretted by a numerous ac
quaintance.
, Samuel E. Gorbon, at Dr. Staf
ford's, Ma ket street.
■ , on Sunday evening last, Mr. Geo.
Wafh.ngton Shallus.
•- ,on Tuesday night, Mr. William
Kldd, copperplate printer.
Mr. Thomas Robbins, late Midshipman
of the United States Schooner Retaliation,
who died on Tuesday at the City.Hospital,
was a young man very generally efteem«d
by all who knew him, as a sincere arnj faith
ful friend, a mod agreeable companion, and
of an amiable disposition. He was warmly
attached to the interest and honor of his
country, and from motives of real patriotism
he entered into the navy of the United
States, in which there is bo doubt he would
hjve fignalizt d himfelf,and would have been
an exampl worthy the imitation of the A
m ridan youths—As he poffefTed au enthu
siastic and laodable ambition for the cause in
which he had entered.
Four persons were taken up on Tuesday
evening, on suspicion of being conceined in
the late robbery at the Bank of Pennsylvania.
They underwent an examination before the
Mayor yesterday morning, the result of
which we have not been able to afcertftin.
, TF,
ExtraS of a letter from Reading, Sept. 2.
" Two men died here, last Sunday, of the
prevabng fever in your city, having brought
it wi<>i them from thence. One of them na
med ffagenaw."
DONATIONS
Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, for
the use of the poor.
Cash 5,0 dollars, from Mr. Charles Wharton,
jo loaves of Bread, From Mr. Isaac Warren,
to be continued weekly during the prevail
ing fever.
Five hundred and seventy-eight pounds of
Bread from Chriltian Mofer, f'outh Third
(treet.
One waggon load of Potatoes, from Captain
Walter Sims, nearßriftol.
By order of the Committee.
PETER MIERCKEN,
Sept. 5 , Chairman
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tents near Schuyllill, for the
use of the Poo *.
September 5.
Four tierces of Rice, from Mr. Jacoh Shoe
maker.
Nine bufhsls of Potatoes, afid a waggon load
t,f straw. {ram Mr, John Lardi>er.
One remarkable fine Bullock, from Mr.
George Weed.
Five barrels of Store-bread, from Mr. Ed
mund Duokin
By order of the Committee,
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman.
Sept. 6.
§s■ The Health Office is kept open night and
day, at the City Hall, where every neceflary
convenience is procured for removing the sick
and burying the dead.
WILLIAM ALLEN.
0" Those Citizens who have LINEN to
spare will render a public service by fen ing it
to the City Hall, for thr use of the City Hospital.
Taken Jtcl Died.
Z o
S O
S 2
3 3
4 »
r »
f
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
From 4th o j'h September. ,
Admitted
John Bn ad 'lreet, between Spruce j
and Walnut llreets.
Robert (? orge, Water street, below South
ftrtet. j
Margaret Moore, No. 55, Walnut street.
Fra . cis Mundy, - .
William Gray, * (
Hambleton Horton. ;' ..
James Morgan, No. 22, Elfrith's alley a
Elizabeth M'Mowaij, No. 186, South 4th t
street. \
Elizabeth Goodwin, Sbippen street, above
Sixth street. j
Sa-nuel Burr, Cherry street.
George Works, No. 16. Chefnnt street. j
George Trapp, No. 30, Strawberry Alley. c.
Elizabeth Dennis, No. 14, Vine street.
Sally Grey. c
George Echort.
Hugh Dougherty. {
Frederick Bcnfon.' „
Died (ince last report,
Christian Shnrn, ill"a days previous to admif.
John Marcklaith, 2 do
John Bnllcau. 3 do
Sarah Brifiington, 3 do
John Carpen, 3 do
John Loudon, 4do i
John Widerfpriger 4 do c
Thomas Robins, Ido 1
Sally Gray, 8 hours after j
Margaret Gwiti 3 days do do. j
Remaining in the Hofpit I 98, 25 of whom
are on the recovery.
Interred in the Hospital Ground,
From City Hospital 10
City and Liberties l~j
Total 27
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Chriflopher Darrah, Steward.
By order of the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, President.
Attefl:—Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
CITY HOSPITAL REFORT.
FOR THR sth SEPTEMBER.
Admitted—TWENTY-SIX.
Died—FOUß.
Discharged—TWO.
Eloped—TWO.
"Remaining in Hospital, I'l6, of vvhom 30
are on the recovery.
Interred in Hospital Ground.
F-om City Hospital 4
City and Liberties 23
Total 27.
PHILIP S. PHYSICK,
CHRI3TOPHER DARROW,Steward.
By order of the boaH of Managers,
Wm JONES, President.
Attefl Wm. Penrose Clerk, Protem.
NINETY.THREE new cases of the
prevailing feve'r, reported by 19 Physicians,
for the last 48 hours.
ONE HUNDRED new cases of the
prevailing feve. -vere reported for 24 hours, j
ending yesterday t. noon, by nineteen phy- ]
ficians.
Buried in the several Chu ch burying
grounds, exclu&ve of those at the Hospital
for the 48 hours ei ding at 8 o'clock last c
vening—25 adults—7 children.
City-Hospital, Sept. 6, 1798.
A good Cook and faithful Nuries will
find immediate employ and generous wages
by applying to
CHRISTOPHER DARRAH,
Steward of the City Hospital.
In the medical advice addrefi":d to the citizens
of Philadelphia a few days ago, by :he fubferi
bers, the reader will please correal a fm'all mis
take. The fweatir.g remedy should be nfed but
four or Five hour» at a TiM£, and but ONCE
in the twenty-four hours If 'he -patient should
become fainty during the use of this excellent
remedy, it fhould'he discontinued for a few
hours, but renewed (under the circumstances
formerly mentioned)if the disease Ihould con
tinue.
BENJAMIN RUSH.
SAMUEL GRIFFITHS.
Samuel Williams, Esq. is a candidate for
a feat in Congress for the diftrift of Ver
• mont, now represented by Matthew Lyon.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Wilmington, Sept. 4.
ARRIVED. days
Brig Swift, Brown, St. Croix 28
4t Marcus Hook,
Ship Belfey, Phelphs. Bristol 77
At NewCaflle,
Brig Robinfon, Lisbon 56
A ship said to be from Liverpool, and a
brig have pasTed up, names u known.
The Roebuck, Shewell, failed from Brif
, tol on the 15th of June, for Philadelphia, a
few hours bsfore the Betsey.
Arrived at NewTork, days
Ship Fame, Favens, Hull 54
Jay, Deyer, do. 54
Fair American, Tredwell, Greenock 49
Polly, Lewis, Rotterdam
Minerva, Sifion, Bordeaux 84
Edward. Crockham, Amftetdam 90
Brig Brothers Felt, Copenhagen 64
Schr. Goliah, Champlin, do 63
Amelia, , C.N. Mole
Ships left left at Greenock by the Fair A
merican.
Fanny, of New-York, capt. D. N. Brain
Hart, of do
Amsterdam Packet
Mary of Charleston
Spoke the following vefTels :
Augult 12. The brig Perigan, of Lynn
W Ramsay master, out 49 davs from Fal
mouth, bound to Qnebec, in lat. 44, N. lon.
. lat. 48 W. Aug. 20, fpolte the ship Two
Sifters, of and from New York, Edward
Jones, master, bound to Bedford, out 15
days, in long. 53, W. lat, 42 N, Aug. 21,
spoke the ship Polly, of NewrYork, ogt 42
days from Rotterdam, in long 48 W, lat
44, N, bound to New Yorfc, The ship
r,. # . « •' w .«>- %
Fair American, Henr/ Tredwcll, 49 da/9
out >.. if ori-i ivk, T. 'J 1t t ". .-!» s
Tji- Ranker, crpt. Ilodgr, left the Cly.'.c
for tli's port on the 29th of Jmt:, and the
Si(l<?r«, capt Faiwn, fur Nev Providence,
Sli'D E'.i Ic, John in fKr, .18 day#
Jron> Oporto, Kft theiethc. fh CaefatjHow
!a'd, ai d b;i a ! rregan, capt. A-Fuller,
aDd Ann, c?pt. Two days previous
to his failing:, two si hooners b onging to
Boftrn were taken by a Spani(h privateer,
and retaken by the Kiogfifhrr bri>r. • Oa
t,he 27th July spoke the Caroline, «f New-
York, from Philad'lphia, bound to Ireland'
The Aurora, O'Conner, from Jamaica to
New York, is loft on Monafquan beach.
The Diana, Harrifon from New York to
Demerara, h taken by a small privateer, near
Sandy Rock..
Brig Friend/hip, frpm r a-liz, Chapin,
Sampson, mailer, 44 days paflage. Lat.43,
41, long. 44, spoke the (hip Adventure,
from Bor !eaux, boud Jo Philadelphia Sa-
W'Cwa l, matter, out 50 davs.
The Fair American, Fame, and Jay,
mounting 12 guns each, falutcd the F..rt.
CHARLESTON, August 27.
Yesterday mor-ii.g anchoicd at Fort
Johnson, th_ pilot.b afMaria.capt Pror,
iii 8 day* from Philadelphia. This vtflel is
one oft o packets, which have been eltab
lifiied to ply between Philadelphia and this
place, by the Poft-Maftet- General; (he
brought papers to the 17th it.ft.
Yesterday anived .the loig Patfey, M'
Keniie, Kingftop, 31 days ; sloop Maria,
Spicer, Phi 3 elphia, 22 day ; (hip ,
a prize 19 the fioop of war Bellona, which
arrived here a few days ago
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Pern fylvania is rcmovsd to Ger
mantowti, —where the business will V* tranfa&ed
to-morrow, in the Unioji School Houfc.
JONATHAN SMITH, Calhier.
September 4
NOT rc E. '
Bank ot the United States,
, September 4. 1798.
THE Public are inform™ that aft<rtk' . h mil.
this Bank will he opened at in the morn
ing, and so remain until noon.
Cafliier.
fentern'-er 4
Mr. b PENCE, Dentist,
HAS remove-' to his House, two fqr:<r* north
we* 1 of Bush sept. 4 .( iw
Walker 59° Kennedy,
HAVE removed their Counting \ouk (for the
present) to the corner of Chcfnut and Twelfth
ftrcets. 3t September 4
Guardians of the Poor.
AMEEIING of the General Board will bo
held at the Alms Houfo the nth inlt. pre
cisely at 1 a o'clock
PETER MIERCKEN, P.efi <nt.
September 4 11 o
Pennsylvania Hofpiral,
9 mo. 1, 1798.
NO p'rfon with an infectious ilifeafi, can be
admitted ii.to this house; it is therefore ear
, j neftly recommended to the eitiieiis, not to fetid
. 1 or taring any feeh patient to the gate', who is ill
| with the prevailing fever. Several per foil ■■ h ving
\ been sent here improperly, is the reason of giving
{ this caution.
I S^ y in° g r Managers 6 ,] FRANC|S HIGGTO, W*
Wanted—A Boy to attend an
Office, situated in a healthy part of the city.
Enquire at No. ar, Nor;h Sev n*h llrcet.
September 3
| C 5" The Inhabitants of the L-uy
and County of Philadelphia are hcrrliy otifiid,
that the REGIS, ERS OFFICE for the Probate of
Wills, for the said C. y and County, will be
. opened at the houfs of "John D.vtr, at Frnnkford,
| the 4th of September .nit. from nine till three
. o'clocl . and on every Tuef-.ay following, during
the present prevail ng fever in Philadelphia
GF.ORGE CAMPBELL, Rcgifler.
sept, niber 3 cofw
COLLECrOR's OFF I C¥^~~
Philadflpuia , Augu: 3c, 1798
t THE bufinef* of the Houf 'will from
r tnis day be tranfaSed at Cheßer, during the con
s tmuance of the fever which now prevails in this
- city ; and in canfequ»nce thereof, the m rchants
are her*by notified, -hat payment of all hands (or,
duties to the United Sti.tcs, payable at this office,
may he made either at the Cu'.lum HouL in Ches
ter, or at the Bank of the United otafes.
r Collector's Office, )
Philadelphia, Aug. 30. J
REM O V A t,
THE Office of the Secretary of the Commiffion
crs for carrying into efffift the twenty firlt Article
of the Treaty ot Friendship, Limits and Navitja
tion, between Hi* Cstholic Majeily and the Unit
ed States of America, is for the present removed
from No 54, South Second (lreet, to a large two
5 story britk house on the right hand going up the
8 Gtrmantown road, just above the Globe Mill, u(u
ally called Mafters's hnuf , being a very airy and
healthy situation ; to w :ith perfoo' having claims
' to exhibit, or enq, i ies te make, may come ar
fend with the greaufl fafety. Letter*, port paid,
6 Bills and Notes, to be noted or pfotefled, and dU
a reflioi'.s rtLpcCling any kind ef Notarial business,
inclosed snd left at the Post Office, will be duiy
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
a Philadelphia, t auguft 30 §lw
NO TIC E.~~ ~
, 8 Bank of North America,
Augujl 28th, 1798.
, '"P'HOSF. Ptrfons who hive Ivotcsot Bills to pay
JL at this Bank are informed,
9 That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
cover dircded to the refpeiliv.- payer and lodga|d
4 in the Poft-Office every Monday until the return
3 ol the citizens.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajhitr.
1 a "g- *9 1, . dtf
Boston G1 tfs,
THE Company now engaged in carrying on
the Glass MmufaAory, with pleasure aiTuie
the public, they have at length brought the bufi
nef» into a situation that will allow them to promifc
a ft rid punduality in the execution of all orders,
and a superiority in the glass they manufacture to
any imported
Their Agents, Meflrs. Josfph Anthont and
1 Co. of Philadelphia, will receive and tran r mit ao
. the Company, orders from any part of the South
ern States, and will contraA for the delivery of
the Glass, on terras as reafonabte as could be pro
-1 cured frort- th* Company themfeh e».
Letters and orders directed to Cbarltt F. Kypfer,
at the works in Boston, Hull meet the ftri&cft at
tention.
N. B. They cut of any fix* from 6 by 8 to x&
by 24 inches,
jnly *7 aawjmLand* for salS by private GoAtfift.
Propofalt v-'.-! be rec-"f- d, hv the fiibic'iher,
Umii the filit day/'of 8 ■ tember n-xt, for the
purcbafe of any k the trliovvnc very valuable
tracls of land with their improvements.
' In the State *>f Nefr-York,
No. t. r»o lots nf grVviid fttuate iri 'he
«C'iniy of Alhany in the town malted Lanfiflg
biirgh, and diflii.guiflied or known on a map «f
said town hy the names of No. 71 and 72.
2. -wo tracts of land fi'uate in the town
the one of them near Oliver l'e-
W-y'», J.-hn Cox's and J hn Palmer's land, ads
.Wmiir.g HNi r, the othar them near
Devilsrd's fnuff mill, Delancy's land ar.d ad
jo-ning Brouh'» river the whole containing about
$4 acre*.
3. A traiH of land" situate in the -onrity of
Weft-Chefler, on the r'>ad for* Kinys-BriCge
to Deiancy's Mills containing about acres.
4 A trafl nf land situate in Montgomery
•tinty, being a part of the traft ralhd
iirriiafe and and dillingnithed in a dm
en of the said p rcnafeintn t,wn<htps by being
art .if ttiwiliip N:>. 4. at the S »V.
bunds of fil l pur«J> ife and at tbe foutherlv Cor
ner of said township containing by eftimauon
about .<'■! t aces.
j. A tra'l of 'and situate in the county of
f!o""".ronriery, aforefaid, being a'!o a part of
jefT.n's ourchsK' and known a#-'. diftinguifhe-i
in d ; 'vifii>n i f the said purchafeinto townships,
by being p rt of tovrnftiip No. :ibei>innin; at
S. \V. bound* of said toivrlhip at the di'dmce ot
i6i cha'ns and 50 links fn m the molf southerly
corn *r thereof.
(1. A traft c* land f;tuate ;n U'fter coiiriy.
fc'ei-.g put of (he trJf?l of land known ly the
pane of tn; Orat *>r Hatdenbus'ghs patent,con
tairin;: abiiiii .1 00 aires.
7. A tra of land fitua'e in tV county of
Ul 'er aforel'aid on thr N. E. fide ot the rivi r
Delaware, being also i part of the lan ! f. r.ner
v granted t<> Johannes Hardeubtirjih and others
commonly known !-y the name of 'he G>een
patent it bring a pan of a pr:-at !o; No. 1. at
the general pai titi n nf laid patent which came
to the (hare of 1 h ima> N'ewhim one of ihc
proprietors, and is knows and d Itinpmfhed on
the oiiis of the sub dmfinn tbtrti.f m .de !)v
Charles Webb, surveyor in the year r75 f I v
lot N» 60 ; ( hin '.and i -ins fotne diflancc on the
ri er Delaware and cr-nHns abott 3 57 acies
8. A trail! of land in the county of Ulller a
fotelaid in the foutli • it-r nf litt in the Hi dtn
bnrch patent being (l:e ]■ >t No. sx, coMainin.:
r~,6?ca''resexi p''nj; there ut 310 acrri
}i*;v nft.-c trant by kobm R LivingMon to
Ni'.hAHiei Sichel.
•). -i tra.o oi !ard situate in the coiinty of Ul
fte> •hi |>innii))! on tie l apekniik rv r, Jnd ad
jo-ninpr tne 14th monument in the divi
jjo of the Hardetiburgh patent, containing
,i ':o acres
10. Two equal undivided seventh - arts of two
ftveral pareili of lands situate in the townlhip.
of Cbetnung in the county f Tioga on the S.
V. . fid? of Tioga river, the iaine being part of
a trail of abnn: acies, these two feventli#
ci'i'.tam abf-tit 5 763 acre?.
11. Oiiu etjiia) acil undivided fcvet.th part of
tb-f id jo,o 0 acre trail in Tioga coun.y bring
about 5,886 acres.
12. One and undivided feve' th part of
n aliout a,X?6 acres.
lii the Stale of Maryland.
lAt aiit of land now ca'led Bavley's pur-
J.a ie in l'nnce George'# caunty, near to a bay
or cove called, Amocftin core, containing aboul,
1J 12' acies of prime l.'nd.
J4. A tiadi of land caih-d Fortune Enlarjred.
.3110 pjrt of a trait tailed Heall's attveniure ■ n
Isrved, both lyi"g in Prince George's county on
tanern of the Potomack, conuiuing !
- I
1A tracT of land wiih the house and im
"provenieii't called Arou, lying on the isftcrt,
branch of'the river i'otivmack. oppofre to the
city of \\ Slhington i'r. 'Prince George'# county
co lulling about 7 ? acre*.
16. A irail of land wtih the h 'uses, mtlls
'other buiidmgs. and improvements lying ilea'
I'ort Cumberland in th< «.o;-nty o. Walhingion
coiitaiiiing 3b mt acres.
17. A trail of land lituate in (he county oi
Washington, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
cont irin?; 400 inres o" thereabout■>.
3 g. One undivided niwety f a trail of la r
in A'.leg ny county, called spruce Ipring, the
hole o wh'ch contains about no acres, alf<
one umiivided nioieiy «f 13s trails or lots o'
ground, rat ii of which contains about 50 ai*rcs.
an 1 are numbered from 500 to 799 in> lufive
o : ltting and excepting three lots which ared:l
tingui;'- ed ny the numbers 661, 661 and 684 aL
which laid lands a 'join.
In the State of Virginia-
A tra«sf of :,ivadow la d nth eonfiderabh
imvTovements, yictr on Hunter's creek,Dorrell's
eieek, Mu. Jy creek and the river totomack ;
' and adji.inin t the city us Alexandria containing
by patent 29 acres.
Edward Fox, audlioneer.
philcdebhia- June s:h- 1798. law
advertisement.
WHP Rfc. David and John Graham, lite
of Hie cfy of Phiiacelphia, merchants,
have assigned ever ail their real a«d per
lonal, to the fu'olcribers, for the benefit of them
creditots—
Notice is hereby given.
To all p. rfons who are indebted to said eQatc,
that they are required 10 m.>l eim nediate paymeDt
<r their refpeflive debts to the aflign«e>. at their of
fice No. 61 Dock-It reet In fadure whereof, legal
ituafufcs' will be taken for the recovery of such at
are nor immediately < ifcbargod.
SIMON WAI-KER, Afligneesof
CHARLES GILCHRIST, ( David & John
GEORGE HUMPHKEYS.3 Graham.
julv 7. ttbA, ifep
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick liaufe, on the north
fide of Spruce-ftteet near Second-flreei,
adjoining the wall of Mr, Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq—This
iodfe is' in coti>p!eat repair with back buildings,
fimfifiiug of a Piazza, Kitchen andahindfome
Bining Room over the Kitchen.
■ ■ As any.Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifiw, J «ore particular defcriptiou is two
fidered unnectifary.
The terms of payment will be one third cadi,
one third in 6 .months and tke remainder in 11
months with interelt. Forfurdiei infoi mation,
iihouirt of JOHN CR/llp,
AO. ii Dock-Jlrect.
\;y The Foil-Office will be mov
ed on Monday the »3Ch'iutlar,t, at one o'clock,
,p «. to the Noith-fide -of Market-%eet, the
#rfl house Weltof Eleventh-ftrtet, where Mer
chanw a"d others are requcfttd t.-fend for their
• letters ; as the Lctler-ttrmri -will bp stopped
cairvii'g letters out, -after that time.
' r.jt Vffire- PMadilphia, ttuzxit H
" " A Houle to let,
In Vourth ttreet, next d- «»• t» the lodfcm Queen 1
Enquire of Rots* *T »'' H» ,5 $> South t ront
t-.rfci. 5 i ul y«
i»kOPOSALSi
BY THI
Inpiranct Company of North Ar;erica.
c ct Imsur\nc.b rgainlt Fint, <(n D««lIiBg-
HilLfes, Ware tlou 'es, and other Buildings (and
on Good? contained in such Buildings) dillant lrcm
Philadelphia, hi the United States.
I. Common lufurarcet, on hazards of the firft
elafs, will be undertaken at a premium of a' out
hall p(r cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a lareer prfi itm will be required, wh'ch
wilt raxy accordin» tp feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in forne in-t
flaccet, where the property insured in
its If extra hazardous, but rendered (till more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous 1 ui'ding" and
occupations the premium demanded will be raised
accotd'tg to circumftancen.
Houfcs and Ware H' use», thewal!= ?nd pert!
tions of wbich are wholly of stone of brick, well
cirtiflruAe J., so as t> h. guarded * * well as may be
again!! fires from v/ithoi, and tree 'Vom extra ha
zardous buili'ings and icecupatiohs in their nei(rh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the ftrtl
class, a"d may be infur'd te their full value.
Iso Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in caflcs bales, r packages, «le
pofiicd in such buiU'ng» to an amomnt not ex
c»e ing 4000 dollars; btt't if more than thisfum
is required to he infureri in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circuaiftances.
11. nfurances will also be made on building? and
good- extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha rifou-*. But it is -ot efy to arrange thtfe
urn'er particular heads er cla"es, so a< to ikfctihi?
each with the necessary accuracy* -Each c:i r " must i
therefore he decided upon aecordingto the circum
tlancesa tending it ; and these circumttarces wili,
in general, appear from the deßription accompa
uying t'-eapplication
Buildings partly conOrucled of hricl: or stone,
arc p eferable to those wholly wooder. Ami in
both cases, the llile ot btnl.iing, how thiy are oc
cupied, how t'. ey are situated, the neighboring
bnildings andhow eccupied, are confideratiens to
be taken into view. And with ref,ie3 to goods,
their tei'd«ney, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are expoftd, ether
'o commence cr to increai'e an accident,■! fire and
their liability in such itate to receive damage by
wet. or by futlden and hafy removal, or'to be flo
leii in time of eonfufion and hurry, arc al! cir
cuniPanees of weight ; and the premiums mui be
proportioiiee! accordingly.
111. The followir g conditiont arc to be un'der
ftood by the parties.
»fl". The lnfurance is nit binding till tfee ftipu
la'eil premium be raid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- j
feelua' from the time of such payment and accep- ;
•ance thereof, whether the poiicy be immediataly |
figm-d or not.
ad. Insurances t»ay be renewed'at the expira
tion fit the term of the policy, without- further ex
pense« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term the tircumftances continuing the fame
as 'hey wen an lerflood by the Infurifs atthe time
the former insurance was matte ; ! ut the payment
of the reniiu'it is eflential to such renewal; and
if 'he party insured fuff'-rs any rime to elapse after
the expiration el th orm T ini ranci, before he
pavs a premium for the renewal, he is not insured '
rfunng such time ; aor can thi insurance b renew
ed on 'he former policy ■bsit by coait uting the
conjTienc' mrnt of the renewal fr»m the expiration
of he former insurance. The fubjcil of itifur-;
ance may neyerthelefs be up:n to treaty for a new
insurance,
.Id. If a y other i furance he made on th fame
property ; ii n-.u.'V be, made knoVn at.the.ti,me'of
apptkation. oth rwilfe the poiicy raaie on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Gopds held in trull, or on configniwi't,
may be insured as such in a fenarate policy i but
they arenot t®be confideretf ssinfuied*therwafe. (
sth. This company will not be Liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafiotieo by any tor
cign invafiop, or' y any military or nfarped force
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion,
ed by gunpowd r aquafortis or other thing of tk.- '
like kind k pt it; the budding, or amoogli the pro
perty itl'ured.
'ith Cilia of Exchange, Bonds ar.d other Secu-,
ritici, Title P« ds. Money. Bank and other pro
oiiiTsry Notes, are not incited in any insurance }
nor are paintings, medal-, jewels, gem., antique
curiofitie", 01 mirro.» exceeding the valae of twen
ty-live dod.Tsec.ch, to beconfiderod as insured une
le's particularly mentioned aod by fecial agree
ment.
Jth. No insurance will be made for a Siorter
term than one year, nor .'or a longer term than le
vels years. Pcrfons choofiog to nfare for seven
y«ars (ball be allowed one year's premium by way
of i'feount: One third o< a years premiiim (hall
be abated in like manner 011 an insurance far
:Uree year-.
Bth Lolfes fullained hy fire oa property in.'ureil,
ihall be paid in thirty d-y- after due prouf and li
quidation the-eof, uitiioat deluflion.
A deiciiption of the ] roperty infurod will
be exp> 4teJ with « .ch application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and signed by him. as well .11
r.y th« owner of the building 01 applicant for in
fur a ce, and attetfed before a Nowry or pnr.dpil
w. o will certify his knowieige of the
parties and their credibility
With relpeOl to Houses and other Buildings.
ill. The site and polition ; deferibing the
flreet or roaa on or nejr which the building
Hands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumltances relative to the extingUifhiricnt of fire
in cafe of accident ,* and particula ly whether
any and what fire companies are eftabl (hid, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as 1 ilide or
partition walls, and their refpcilive height and
rhicknels; the llyle of the roof and of what
materials; howfecured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of acctfs to the top ot the
houl'e a»d to the chimmes ; whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; aud the kind of deposit for afnes.
3d. Ihe dimenfit ns of the building and how
divided, and*the llyle in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indiflerent pcrfons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the ige atsd condition of the building,
and how occupied, whe her merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose j alio an estimate of the value of the houle
or building independent of the ground.
4th. T» e fituatior with refpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leatt one hundred sett
dach-way : what kind of buildings are within
that dillance, how b lit. of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther auy and what trade or manufadlory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually ilcpo
fited in the house, or within the diilance afore
faid.and of what kind.
Refpedl ing goods in Houses, Warehouses, Ac.
I. A eeneial defcriptiun of the building hi
wt-jch they art kept will be expeded, timiiar in
all refpedls.as to the danger trom lire, with that
required for Insurance en the buildings them
ftlves
j. A description cfthe kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in casks or o her packages,
or opened ; and whether tlifplayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
cltimatc of the value of each kind proposed to
be iarured ; bet :a lift mlnutt
nefsof description is not expeCled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are ?ec«n ■
ed extra biiardo'is, themph in various degrees,
in whatever bnildisg tbry rair be plactil', viz,
pitch, tar,turpentine, rolvi, >jrax, tallow, oil,
fnflainmable spirits, fulphnr, heinp.flax, co.iton,
d*V of an inflammable kin-! o. -ned.--.
Gltfs, china ware or porcelain, eipecialfy uii
pa ked; Lot king glaflcs, jeweltr)- ; sml HI o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or - ore than eomm mly liable to injury by sud
den removal of by mtnflures, 01 particularly
obr,oxious t« theft on in alarm of fire.
Letters pott paid, direfUd to the Secrit.v y of
the Board of Direflors, will be duly aweaded
to. An order for Tnfurance accompanied by tiie
means 6r pavinjj the premiutu, will be imme
diately executed on the premium K paid. If
the applica:ion contain an enquiry di.lyl it will
be answered.
'•Br orlter of the Br-aril,
KBSNGZER ITaZARD, Src'r?.
OJpce of the tnfurance Company o/"Noit' )
America ; Phil:id. Pt'p. 1, 1798. J
Feb. 14. iaiiitf
FOREIGNERS
M AV, by virtue of an aisl parted atT-Jovember
fefltM 17<}1. hold by deed, or by wiil, Uo*Js
in that part cf Maryland called the diftri£t of Co
lumbia ; nnd the fame may he tra:ifn)itted to, and
inherited bjr their heirs, jccAs it they were citi
j ien^
Within th» difiri<2 of Colam'i'a, upon th« eas
tern lirauth of Potoniack.
11 i_4,ar.d n3l in the eify Wafhin<jton, are ,360 a
cresof ref'-rvoi wood \mA Forfait Its advanta
genre p.iffeiEng tfree or four Ht gant
: many sne fpring<, and an abundance of
timber, principally white oaks. For a «!rck or
(hip yard, no poGtion can boaff et equal benefits,
having two coves, with narrow entrances, from
which at an easy expence, tide wjtur might be
t exclude!, and dock* f*nk, large enoi-gh to re
ceive ve.Tcl- of any f:ze.
V.'ifhinjf to rotam an inttrtft in the property, I
would prcftr felling an undivided half ot thfee
eghts. GEORGE FRENCH.
For terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Upien
i street, Pijriaaelphia, or Mr. F obert Wallh, Haiti
more. Jtily 23. *aw6w
I ""TcTBE SOLD,
'"P'HE of 'l* indented Dutch Servant BOY,
L ferve He has Had the
fi»ell poirsinl tr.iiaftes, is hearty and itrong,
and (it br honfc ivrr'c in town or country, for
farther iufortcitu-n, enquire of the printer.
■ augur-t 4 §
To he Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
7m CLifiiui::.xt to'.bc BenA vf Ntrtb AmcritJ*
1 His L»t it tJiirty by one huo-'red and fevanty
•ight. The Houf<: has been thorough y repaired
within a Itwr uiont. s Apply to the Printer.
august 8 §
Mills* Portage, Sic.
TO SB. LB AS SB fOR A T£RM OF YEARS.
TO be leafed, for a term pot less.than three,
uor more than fcyen years, a VALUABLE
PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, it the county
Onondaio, \ nd flats of New-York, qa the KapUj
of the SwSeca-riVer, two mUes weilof the Cayuga
j ferry, and eleven niilos'eafl oi Gtnflva.
epijfifta of <z<ieUuat grift
mill, fa* dwelling !iou(e, Laru, port
age or carrying place, wivh l>etweeri thirty and
forty acre- of land, under good ir.iprpv'smeht,and
as R*K<i»-m«rein-the vicinity, as iriay beTeiniired
for future improvement. , , ; ,
Jhe grift nut! if a hapdfome, fin
Mhed building, of jo fcy 30, feet,,j (lories hifffi
ana urnifted with a run of excellent florr stones
and ano«hcr*-lt>l Efopus', stones, oi the he'll
—ar.d the fcofl approved &c calcul .tcJ to
make all the different qualities of dour lor expor
tation or for hcnVeconfumptlOn : Jtisja'cceiUblt by
water froci every part of the Cayuga laite ana Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca lake—and
from its fituatiwu, commands a veryextenfive and
encreaCng ciDnm ! The flream 011 which it stands,
being the outlet ol the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never fie in want of water ; arid a-s it has been kept
working during the fcafor. of the latt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft s
T"le saw mill is also neSv, lituate on the fame
ftrtam, now furnifhed wi'h *n ample stock of
log,, of which a supply may at all times be pro-
Mured by iand or water, of the best quality :
The dwelling house nwell calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, at d fufficisntly la; ge : The
barn i. about -40 feet fcjuare, and entirely ucw :
The portage is V4thsof a milt in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which u ere palled in thc
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
coatvntf ; this objeA is already productive of a
handsome income, which motl be in-.icafing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of thivfituation,
mult be numbered tlte fertility of thefurroundiug
country—being the b»ft improved part of th«! coun
ty ol Oupmlaga—the concentraiion qf inter
coHrfe by land anil,water, the Oeiiefli e ftateroad'
palling through ity as w, 11 as all Wa i-r tfrp»jje -o
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario andSteuhcn ;
which renders it a moll eligible stand lor a Store or
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in filh and
fowl, and tbecoun'ry wick de-rand other game
Besides 'he in ill* already erefled at thisnlaee, it
-is calculated for any additional water woi
maybe found neceff ry—Fulling mill, bsui mill
tannery, forges, &c. may be ereAed at a fniall ex
penc —lron ore may b« bronghtiii boats irom the
Cayuga lake ; and it is t'.eugh; to abound in the
neighborhood
The Hock on hand w : llbe fold to thtjeffee, and
the cattl -, utensils, fmitit's forge, Sic. m.j be told
or let the premises.
If apurchafe (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the pretuifes it will be fold.
Far te ms of ta e or lease,- apply to mr. Wil
■uiiDiMtNDF.tis at the Seneca falls, or to the
i fubfcriSef, at S'chene^ady.
SFfiPHEN N. BAYARU.
jnr-e I :wln
federal Vlills,
A DJOINING Georgetown, a'-d the Citjr of
x\ Wafliiugtor, will be offered at Public
on the 10th day ot Sopt^m'er next, at the Union
Tavttin, if not pr-vioufly fold at Private sale
Thole mili&in point of fituationfor bjfmcfsand
na ural advantages are gencially admitted to he
• equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
! a iafge brick house, eighty leet by fifty, al ooft
new, in which are fo«r pair of Burr rni.l-
Uorrtf* wirh exvat r , hoppevnoys and bol'inj;'
cloths, compl tely linifhe l ah J conttructed iu such
a manner that th - whole of the m ils may matm -
fa dure flour at the fame time. The cou.try null,
whith isereilea hear the other, is entirely new,
«t fliong Hone building, containing owe pair oi
ftoiKS, and built in such a manner that the fecowd
} air may be p ( ut up With little expence. This mill
;s tonveniently finiflicd, and calculated to carry 011
exfrnfively, country work, of which it ge > acon
ft-ni fuppiy. here is belonging to t".e said niilis
Told witn the mills-
One third of the purchase money will bf requir
ed in sixty days from :hc of sale, and
halancv a iibtfal eredir will be given. Fuith«r
particulars will be n»ad.knowu 01 the day of file
JOojc-PH E. RO'A'liE.S,
iu> of
JOSTIPH t. KO-Vv Lfci <s' Co.
Gcorg€town, ju y 13. jawt*
. AN ACT
.Fsr f(r retirf of the Refugees fern the BrUi/b
-pio-l'ixcrj a'f Canada and R'of/i-Sceiia.
. I) E it rna.'ird by the Senate n t<i Houf
'/ 13 of llepi efen!t;:ves <f the tJfittu
Xtrtes if America, in C- .ilfttublcd, l hit
to lat!>'y the claims of itrtiiri pei-fuus claim
Uu>!; under the relolutiuns ■ f of the
twcuiv-ilii d of April, one.»fi'>utjnd fevtn hup
dred and cighty-thrre, ond the thirteenth o :
April, one tnoufand seven humltd and ei«htv
live, »» reiVptSrs from tlie Riitifil provincnOf
Canada and Nora-Scotia, the Secretary for the
DepartTjent of War, be, and is hereby autlui
lized and d.reified to give notice ill one or more
of the public papers of each of the States of
Vermont, MaflachuiVtt*, New-Y"rk, New-
Hampfliireaiid "enr.fylraria, ta all persons hav
ing claim'- under the laid reftlutkms, to tranf
iiit to'the VV'ar- ffue, within two years after
Ihe ptdTng'ef this acl, a jnfl and true account
of their claims :n the bounty of Cimimla.
Se<:. a. /In! be it further enaded, t hat no
oiU-.t po !otis fbai. be entitled to the benefit of the
provifVons ot this a-if, than th«l'e of the f. [low
ing delcriptions, rr their w'dows and heirs, via.
Firll, thole heads of families, and fin«l<- per
sons-, not mem'wrs of ar.y futli fan ilics, who
«tre residents in cne of the provinces aforefaid,
prior to the f. urth day of July, one thousand I
seven hundred and Ceveiity-fix, and who aban- i
donrcf their settlements, in cortleq'ienceof hay
ing given aid to the United Coloir.es w Stales,
in the revolutionary War Greai-Bntaii),
or *itli intancion to give Inch aid, and continu
ed in the vfnit.d States, or in their f?rvice, dur- ,
ing the f'at-J war, and <iid not return to refi-le in !
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
prior-to the twenty-ljhh of November, one i
thoufditf seven minded and eighty-three. Se
condly, the.widows and heirs of all Inch per- i
£>n» as were ailual relidrnts, as as >rrfaid, who
abandoned thtir settlements, a3 aforefjid, ind
difd with*. t-He United States, or. in ' heir fcr
vice during the said war : ' thWdly, -all peri .
for.s who were mi-mbers of families at the time j
ot thtir coming into the United State*, and who
during the war, entered into their lei vice.
See. 3. Ar.d be it further emitted, That the |
pro.-f of the leveral circumstances nerrffary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this adl,
may b* fattenbefore* iudpe of the supreme or j
dillr'nft court of the United States, or a judje !
of tftr supreme »r fopertor < ou. r, or the firll j»f
ticeer firlt ji dfce of theeonrtot common pleas
or county court*f soy Sute-
Sec. 4. /InU be it further enacted. That at
'he eJtpirition of fifteen months from and after
Vhe parting of this ad>i, and from time t ■ time
tharcafter, it fliall be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay such evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Trrafury,
and with them, pr- ceed to examine the tcHi
mony, and give their judgment what quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, Tn proportion to the degree of their
refpeflive fcrwees, fs*rifice« »nd iufieringi, in
ccnfeqnence of their attachment ts riie cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the tirft
cbl" a quantity not exceed) tig ore thousand acres ;
an.:l to the iiit cl,a!'«, a quantity not exceeding
one hiipdrf.tl, making such intermediate dalles
as the fefoWnfts aforefaid t and dlllributive jnf
tice, raav. - their iudgtnent require^and make
report jhetVsf, to Congress. And in cafe-auy
fti( h claimant Ciail have fuSained such and
ailjfirifigf, or perfi.r(i»ed Inch service* for j the
P'nKed States, that he cannot justly be clafT d
in any onegen ral ci ;fs, a Separate report fh4II
tie made of. his circutnltanc#?, together wi'h the
quantity of i-aod that ought to bu allowed bim,
ii'iviug ro'ereuoe to the foregaing raaio : Pro
vided, that iiw.'OHfi iering what compenf tiwi
.9«g|)t to fee made by vtnueof this a 1 granti
cifCepr military grants, which may have been
made by ti;e Units d KtfltWj or individual States,
(hall he conttdored at the jult value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, ti
iher in or in part, at the cafe may be, a
fatisfattion to thole who may have rereive'd the
fame: Provided also, thatnocLim under thi.
law, fnall be aflignalile untd after report made
to Cowgrefs, as aforefaid, and until the faidg
lands be granted to thf peilons entitled to the
benefit of this iiX,
St;c. i)e it further tnuilei, That all claims
rn Virtue of said 1 evolutions of Congress, whic-i
lhall not be exhibited as a c orefaid, wcithin the
time by this ail limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Spealter if tije Haufe of Reprefentat 'rvet
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice-Prudent of the United Starrs,
and Preftdenl if the Senate.
Approved, yfyril 7, 1798
JOHN ADAMS,
Prefideut of the United- States.
Deeoflud among the Roll* in tlioffLe of the
Department of State,
Timothy ?ickfring,
Secreta-y of State.
c 3" Pnrftuirrt to the alotc Aft, No
tice is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 178;, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, 1798, a juffc aad true ac
count of fhc.'r claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten
tion must be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d aad 3d Se&i6ns of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary «/ JVnr.
July T9 j.tw6w
LANDING,
At Sourh Strcrt wharf, the cargo of rne (hip Con
ned icut, from Batntia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
oi t < ; f iittd 17^5
60 tons c;f Java Sugar,
In c«nnilltrs.—fo la ehy
PGTF..S ELIOHr,
WHO AL3O OFFEIIS ruit SAI K,
fJO !.;v J s chorea Jamaica aiugara
Jamaica rum in hh js
Srailiy lit and 4.h proof in pipes, lihdi*
and quarter «sic»
tvladeira in pipa«
Olsi Batavia Arrack
iu'v *.
i his Day is Puv'lilli.e'u,
AND FOR SA LC IY J FE N NO, 1 iCJ.CH F.SN UT*| 1 R EBT
AN ADDRESS
'7 0 the People of Maryland %
ON the origin, progress aud prci at itate of
French agutciiiori. witli c ikctch ol thl- infanuu.
attempfa to degrade the Government ofrUe L'nited
>[ate>,aiiu fame refle-itio' -on the 'a'errocec i- '
: ; w ri lenuie lad of r*|iril in thr pr,
sent year, by a Aleiobtr <if the Ho«fc of Kepre' 11-
tativea. t, „ lie 11-
HAP Pi' DISCOVERT. IvR
A cttUim Cure Jlr that alarming and treadful
The Yellow Fever,
is tvt/i as <**y oibtr 4m*erc*i pu'rid fever, /A
ard itier inveterate and complicated dife^ts, -
t-' c-ufc of tie "MWkl
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented«n England,FntU
I'oUn.l, and all the capital cities in
' where the moll aftomtbing turr« have been effe»/
,cd pu pcrfons judged i*c*rable by all phyficaw|
In a Trcttife printed in I.on. on, on the propi riil
of thi; powder, by T. Seymour, M. O late Ch i
mill to hi. Muc&y.. there arc Hated two hundrd
cases, wlitre this mod Valuable remedy ha< prove
infallible. ill all Had of fevtrt, pleurisy, i.'-.Yv JtiA
iuvermie rbeumatifmi, fciaiica, apoflexy,
htv iaapdice, ringworm. tcottnj in children and in £ r *W
[~rfru, white* chroniml bead and Jiomtcb acbei, befa
'lid ant nepbrctical or font tbolic, the lingr evil, feurv
and lie nop inveterate and mwpliextei venereal difeafe.'{\
ia UUc» He the bell preparative for 'ho Intallfo:
and nieailet; ol the greatest utility for youqafi t
well a» for eider ladies at the critical epoch of thtf 1
life. 'he eifi-acy of this powder in fcveral ofUl I
above dtfeafes tas been dilcovered by chance,fcl I
so it hasbeeu in'.hi yellow fever last year, by 11 r
Mahy, who cur;d fcveral hy adntinifteririg Alj
t-.uo of the said foruden, and tod not a tingle n- \
tient which he undertook toiure, as proved Md
atteiled by the hcreannetcd certificates, whose BIN.
ginal may be seen at Andrew HaJfeg s umbrella Jbop
No, Ijl, corner of Cbefnut and FourthJWtett, the j>n
ly place «h thefe powderi are to ha had, with
proper dire.3ior:i for the use of them.—Price j^vs
Tlw ufefulnef* and certainty of this remedy he
its;j so great for To many dangerous disorders, lay
person within.; to lie provided with those powdeiii'j
wilt pliafe to .apply very soon, as the quintiry ac
hand i» rot very large, and it i* donbi.'ul ii for 4
time, or ii tv-, . \ othergjnuine W! ibe intj
por.ed, the f. cret ouiy in tne hands of
the inventor, m Euro;). , and ;>e*er ,r cr;n:n*i>
nicated to, or difrover d by any o ,h»r ,'trfon.
' N 3 In the yell iw and putrid fever*, this pow
der -null betaken tha iccoijd, or at bad the
day
Weihe fubfsriher* durirg the late fichncft m
thi* city.hav i,g taken the y llow fever, applied to
Vlr. V«hy f"i hi» medical alfiflauce, we do here
by eerri y, tiiat by a cert>in powder cal'ed the
Poudre l 'i]»e, we were pei fe»3ly recovered from
the fnd a il.T;clu<e'v a-'id froio an experience of
the hiwpy i.f. iiU of the ahov molt v.'.luahl. medi
cine it our du'y to ma!<e the fame 1.
for the oencU'. of ufellow citizens.
Margari t Jone?,
My !u» O'Connor,
1 Je e "u-nc,
CKri :te'n K. hecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Ann (ji. vcr,
William .'Sills,
Uavivl .Villianis, carpenter,
' William 1' Donaldfin. malt-maker.
Mr. Matiy'n well known Plaii'er for all kind of
would# and fare 3. to be had at the above direc
tion, No , C efiiut tlrcet.
Mj-v-tntifl. lawtf
OE->tR 1 t.D,
FROM on hoir'. the Sh.p ol w ,i Delaware"; !y- I
ing in Nantalket s<dad, Jaf ph Vorter, 5 feet ,
10 inches high, ajtdlJ '.lorn at ■ oncorJ, Chef- j
?er«nu ty, itaie of Penufj iva lia, sandy hair and
comp.exion
VVm. Moon, agel 15, 5 feet 10 inches high,
reel hair aiid red complenion, born 11 Philadelphia
hi- onl» cloaths taken with him is a suit of ma
rine (-loathing. ,
Whoever apprehends the; said jefertcrs, fliall rc« \
csive ten ddllurii for eaeji, by apily ng tp
V/. W. BURROWS, ,
Major of the Marine Corpt.
Wants employment,
A YOUNG MAN T , who has served a regu
lar apprtnticeQiip to the meicantiie bnfi
nefs in this c ty, wilhes to engage in a Conuting
hoafc or office, writes a good hand and under- j
Hands account', can lie well recommended ar.d J
i'tcurity given if required. linquire at tha
office of this Gazette.
jui e *! jawtf
General Poit-Onice,
PROPOSALS for carrying thetnails of the- .
LJv.ited on the lollowing routes wili
, be received at this office until the joth day of
beptemher next inclusive.
1, Frotn'Pittfburg P. by Cannonlbutg, Waft
ington, VS ett-Libeny, Wheeling an t Wills
-1 town to Za:ies at the month of Licking-crcek,
on tie Mitiki'it»uin t eliimatrd i4omi'es.
Leave PiuTburjf every Friday at 1 p m. and
arrivn at Zines the next Monday by 8 P. M.
.Returning—Leave Zan«j every Turt'day at j
A. Vt. and arrive at Pittftjjrg the next Friday by
10 A. M.
i. From Zanei, at the mouth of Lioking
Cruek on the Muftjngum, hy Cnilicothe aid
Mafley's to MayFvillc i% Kentucky j ellitn*H
140 rrti!e».
Leave Zanes evefy Tuesday at ? A. M. and
arrive at M-iyivdie the next Friday by to 4. M.
Retttriiing—-Leave Mtyfviilc every Friday by
i v. M. «nd arrive at Zanesthc nest Monday by
8 V. M.
The carriage of the mails to commence an the
firft day of November next and continue until
'he It'll day of OiV.ber ifßoo. Payments will
be made quarterly.
The usual penaltie»for dj!ay> and failures wiH
be llipulafrd in the ro)itrai>.
Jofcph Habcrjham,
Pvjl- Mnficr General,
juTy Tj, r-t)3 m&th6w
HEALTH OFFICE.
Ptj'iaJeipb'm, ijl Afny, T
Hxtradl of an a# to ;tlter oil amend the hkaltk
Lawi of this Cor,imonvrfaith, 41b - p;il
1798.
ScA. 8* A * ,ur^-er hy the au«
chority a or«* r 4id 1 hat cv*g:y hou/c«
keep r tvitlun n>c c»ty «f Phil ideiphia, rhc t«w:i-
Ihips of the Northern Li KTtie* an ! aMoyam
a?id diftrid of Southv.'arl;, within a mil# of the !i
---mitsof the city, t*k#)£ in boar!e**»arriving Uy fca
or by .and, from any 1.-reign port or plac'. and ha#,
vingany in h»*«*r her lainily, who lhall
taken Jick o any «ln -uh whd'focver, heiwcnrn tho
hrildavof May and the firil day ol Nov. tnSrr ia
any y»r, wkhf; 4 venty next after futh boar
<irr t flsall co ne to lodge in his or her ht ufi*. Hialt
within Z4 hpurs next a!t<;r the knowkd*.. of fucli
! lickn.fs. ,ti..ko report it he licr^lU.-(Juice of tho
nan-.c xd iuv.li iuk pcr.i»u, tlu; tunc of his or her ar
rival <tt ll>clloufc ot lii- «»r hrf i"**i «r ' akenfick,
uikl ai the tunic and pVicc 01 alvniq of »ttch houfc*
k<ep vvhfrcup.-H! th- Hfiyficim of Health-
Office fru'l forrh ith vr;\t the *iatitnr, and report 1
t" rh« «!Hce his opini -n « f tiic nritt.re of such dif*
cafe, that n-.ealiwre* raajr'b- ta! :n ti> preve nt tho
fprcadinj; cf tho inffdiori; a.id i. u.y )u«ufekecprr
iHali.ncg'iccl t^i tiie mliiiirrtind
within the titn>* .uid he *h ron»
vicled, io any-court ot ciTir.uip.l j;:r •. witr in
this (Commonwealth up» x -indt Jnic tLy
or conft'lhri: he or fl'. C:ail lexuu .nJ .. line
to the file ol the laid hwl'pit-!, not icf, than tvy enty
dollars, iu.r more tl».ui 0i... 1 uudivd didUiii) r >be
iaip6<»ii at the cifci ion «.f 4 ,icc« uit, acforditif to
tlit- kirciiniilaAcss of greater or icit aggravation at-*
tendii'g racli ical -r cay,
By i n!'.T <;t the lir .rd of .Health.,
it f: r,
th-r oi FhihiCelphit.