of tint Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMBEi 1663. J
Will be Sold,
On Tucfday tbe 10th day of January inft.
at 7 o'clock in the Evening at the Mer
chant's Coffee House, thp following def
cribedj.ra£ls of land—viz.
Seven contiguous trads of laojd, situate
•a tbe waters of little Equinunk creek, in
the county of Northampton, surveyed on
warrants dated refpeftively the 9th day
of OAoteri 1776, and patented w the year
»7*3-
ALSO,
Fifteen thousand acres of land lltuate in
in Union, Springfield and Shirly townships
inHuiitingdoncounty—Particularsof which
may be known by applying to Charles Ed
dy, No. 4, North Eighth Street.
Peter Benftn, Auctioneer.
Jan. 2. dtioth.
TO BE LET,
And poffefiion given the ift fanuary,
The Houle No. 107, Arch-street,
N«ar the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 88, V[ne
Street. v
December a 7 dtf
Ran away the 25th of Decem
bc U 1 797» a Negro Man, about 5 feet j incji-
Cihigii, of a y;llow complexion; when spoke to
and called by his tjame he tasaquick (harp lool&
out of his eyes and (hews the white of them very
Jr.uch; has taken all hi»eloathes with him, which
aie, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a flriped vest, nankeen
breeches, ftlk (lockings and ruffled (hirts, and a
number of other eloaths. The said Negro under
ftaada farming-,-and ; 3 a Rood_Jhpemaker .aHd car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—ll
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
said negro and secures him, so that I get him, (hall
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
Susahnah Medford, living in Still Pond, Marys
land, Keut coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
January z. fit
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber, on the 14th
of December, 17J7, a Negro Man, about 2i
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about J feet
7 or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; Ke
has a very Coarse voice, his fore teeth (land very
far apar:,; there were one or two with him—l
■cannot rightly describe the doaths he took with
him, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kersey trowlers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half wois wool
hat ; he took with kim four very good (Birts—l
«xpc& he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
Whosoever takes up said negro and secures him, so
that the owner may get Mm again, (hall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Poad, Kent county, Maryland.
January 1. *6tzaw
Lodgings Wanted,
Furni&e* or unfunded for a Otntlrman. La
dy and servant—two or three genteel Roonn ana
a Oarret ; Ctuated South of Market Street—En
quire of the Printer.
Dec. 19. *jt
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, South Front flrcet, next door to Ed
ward Fox's AifAion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general alTorttnent of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, get. &c.
OA. *7. 6
Jarnes C. & Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THE tit STORE,
No{i3, comer of Arch and Front flreets,
HArl FOR SAIE,
[ Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests bed Hyson Tea
Alfo —ijoo boxes bed London Window Glifj;
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. Gliifs
Ware, assorted, which they will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the eity.
November «8. .lawff
NOW LANDING,
At SotftS-Tffeei WtxaH,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Concord >
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia. ;"SRi
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (^h«
whole having been felefied)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniftars and Vagi ■
IGulegurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves ■ ' V
FOR SJJ.B BT ' ■ "
PETER BLIGHT.
Who al/o offers For Sale,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jjtnftjca.
2oe hhds, Jamaica and 7
170 do. do. Rum.
November >3. d6w
A person well acquainted with
the theory £d d pr a Aice of who has been
manyyearsengagedinbuCnefstorhimfelf and others,
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent
•r faSor ; or in polling books ; dating nnfettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or English.
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be pun&ually attended to.
November 30. jawtf
House 2nd Lots, in Bar dent own.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two (lory House.
with the Lot on which it is eretSted, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Borderitown. The house is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one handred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame breadth toba«k
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, Separated from the former by back street.
One third only of the purchase money will be re»
quired upon executing a deed, and (or the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title fivenf
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, a». 144, Market-street.
December a. jawrf
PHILADELPHIA.- SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 6, 179$
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
The fad failing (hip
j SWIFT PACKET,
| Patrick GaißatN, Maftcr,
ly> n g "tH wharf below
"Mirkcfr Siteiif—has handsome ac
commodations for paffengtrn—For freight or paf
fajfC apply to the MafUr on twjrd, or to
A', is? J. Frazer,
No. South Front Mreet.
Who have on han<T, andfor Sale,
Primeßice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina ladigo, Mobiles in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, Sec. Sen
December tj jtawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
A British vessel, fifteen hundred
two thousand five hundred bar-
Peter Blighty,
WHO HAS FOR SALC,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogfhe*
and old London Particular Madeira fit tor imme
diate use, in pipes.
December 30 § Xw
£ or Charleston,
X*"*-- THE ship
. g&jr VENUS,
: Ly*g ft tbe wharf oj titffrs. Pcmtli
■; i£cS-!3prfe- OHE will take Freight on very
■wafetSsO low terms, and fail the firft
"-Apply to the mailer on board, or to
Jos. Anthony t9* Co.
Detember 18 «
- J.
For Amftcrdaav,
F A R M E R,
John M'Coiloh, Master ;
WIJLL fail in a few day*, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tens of Coffee, or pal'-
ft R », apply to the mailer on "board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, out of the said Ship, from Boor--
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wiae in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, }
j Satrterne, > Wiiies in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24.
For Londonderry,
" • THE B&I'GANT'I'NE
William Whittew, Matter.
A flrong good vessel, about two
nuirtt».i liU with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Wining and Francis'* wharf. Fpr freight or plf
faee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenberger s 'wharf.
Who wants to Charter, >■
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
, nov 18. §
For Sale or Charter,
Sol. good hope,
wi " carry about 1100 barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers Es* Co.
No. 151, South Secend-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A proportion of her
cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeded to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain oh
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to w
PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
November »». £
-- "- • v ■ »
• -For Savannah, in Georgia,
' THE SH "
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
for pafft'ngers—
Sails'on the loth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS W SIMSON.
IVh 9 have to diftofe *f\
A ftnall invoice of tJLAUBSR SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. ' ~ §
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acfes and 40 perches, with a heat two
(lory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. Ctuate on the Irilh tra<ft lane, in the
townlhip of Meyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
fce made known upon application at the office ps
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
Deoember 1. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in she Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
01-A.B. N0.i004, dated July it, >797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I • (~6w
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGA'I, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, and
A parcel of Clip building RED CEDAR.
0«3. it. }
By John Fenno, N° U9 Street.
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholder*are hcr«by notified, that ao
vledion for twelve for the enftiing year,
will beheid at the Bank on Mon tiy, the Bth of
Janmry next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajhier.
Dfci-mhcr n. dtjt^f-'"'
Bank of the United states»
JanuayXjl, <798.
1. futeen dollars on each IKrs for the iaftfix
menths, — Alfoan additional dividend of four doi
larr on each (hare, arising from surplus profits.'
Which will be paid to the
ers, or their legal feprefentativts, after thcroth
d6t
GEORGE SIMPSON, Cafbkr.
Bank of North Amferica,
January I, 1798.
AT a meeting of theDireilors this day, a divi
dend of fix per cent, was declared for the last
half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders or
their reprefeutatives time after the xotb inii.
By order of the hoard.
JOHN NIXON, President.
dttoth
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
""I IF. Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
J. Ele<!lion for thirteen Directors to serve for
one year, will be held at th» company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of January fcext, at IX
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, S*'ry.,
December 14. , dtSthJ
Insurance Company f Nprth
Amferica.
SHE Stockholders are hercty informed, tSat a
stated xnceting of the Comjairy win
their office on the ninth day of Jaejiry ne*t fox
ing the ftcond Tuefday-'itithe tootith^'f or
tion of twenty-five Direftortforthecnfuing year.
EBEN. Hazard, Sec'xy.
December 14. thfemt^thj
PhiladelphiaandLancalterTurn
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual Eteflion for Officers for the ensuing
year,wi!! £t held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
10 o'clock, a. m. Wll. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
December 7. its m&wt7j
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
Efedion of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
held at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the loth day of January
next, at I a o'clock.
By order al the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December 16 eedtiothj
THE AMERICAN LADIES'
POCKET-ROOK. For 1798-
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No, 17, foutb feeond-ftreet—containing
AN elegant Frontispiece of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and his Family, in the caflle of Olmutz,
with an illustration ; being an account of the princi
pal events in the public lite of the Marquis, with a
(ketch of the fufferiugs of himfelf and his unfortunate
family. A complete Atmauack— JO4 ruled pages
for memorandums, observations, &c. a!fo,for account
of monies paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends—Liil of births, deachs, &c.—new
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO, t
The Centleman'i annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1758 —containing an Almanack; IC4 ruled pages
for memorandums and calh account ; Duti< s payable
on goods imported into the United Srates. Cultom
cufe fees, &c; (lamp duties, to take 1 ace after the,
3 iftDec«mber;a lift of the pod towns and c:ofs-roads
in the United gtatcs; a variety of ufeful tah'es, and
other interefling matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, CQnftantly keeps for sale, a geneial
aflortment of Merchant's account Rooks, and other
Hat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
size , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Map*, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
Weft-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, English
ind American. Dec. S7 * it.
Tin Plates, »
SIMO N' L q •"
1 r- .lilKne, irtaVinfA ftW.
December ■-. . kul.
A House in Safe. v
THE l'uhfcriber his a large, two
ftory brick House, with Carriage,
house, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he ,wi<hes to
sell. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has aljo for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 19. oo7 *
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,/rom Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in balcets of ia bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES LATIMER, jun.
*l, South Wharv»s.
Who has. alfa for Sale t,
A few qr. Casks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. iiw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales CofTas
40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoody
I) do. CHSntz
7 do. Tookery
1 do. Gonhs
25 do. Moragungces
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzic
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
»5 pipe* fineil particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage f 795.
MORI3ECAI LEWIS.
December j. 3aw4w
NOTIC'E.
ALL persons who have any demands against
th s eilate of Wilcam Fle£Wtood, o£
fore of PhiUdrlphia, mercfuht, de
ceased, arc requested to exhibit their aceounftv,
properly attested ; and those who are fnil: bted
to the fame, are desired to make iicntediate
paymc*t,t».
GEO. DOBSON, \
No. So: Third-street. \ 0
January 4. ... dtf
FOB- S -U.S,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No. 8, Cb«(nut-ftreet, .
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which arc,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas S^.onas
Guzz nahs Tanda Coffaes
G uzzie» Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoort Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongtl them are a great proportion of the
manufa&ures of Patna.
December t. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. 15, f«uth Third street,
An exteniive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, y\z.
Best London mixt Pins Galloons aud Ferrets
.Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, allor-
Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted colours
white chape) Needles Imperial, diaper, and
1 Nuns Thr<iad no. 6to Thread Tapes
v. 40, regularlysfforted White Edging*
iLifle do.no. 130 to 500, Bla*k rod coloured Chi
regularly aflorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
fewmg Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lid
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattin
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black hrulh Feathers * Buttons
And 3 compleat aflortment of Gao'ds, suitable
to the preient and approaching season, at reduced
pitfces. Die. 6. dtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and ii—
back of no. sa, south Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eod2w
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
TeneriJJe IVine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hagjhead of pai'it
brushes.
N. & J. Frazer.
- —Alo- Snath Front Street.
Nov. 7- dim '
frefh Raisins.
A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnutft«eet wharf, from the'floopYa
rico. capt. Haflcell, consisting of Kegs, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and fucks
of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Matter
on board, or to
Jos. Anthony & CoJ*
December' <9 §jt
Imported (via New York) on the?
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for!
sale by the fubferiber, .at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorsns -
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muftins
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafocs Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullhaakerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
Bovember 17 tuth*4w
? " NOW LANDING,
*From on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
■ > ? Claret in hhds.
* Ditto in cases
Sauterne Win* iii do.
For Sale, apply to
John Wbitefides Iff Co.
No. 1 xS ,*Market-ftreet.
Alfa, en hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few* cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november »g. §
STOLEN ~
Out of tile fubferibrt's office a large blue
cloth cloak,worn. Theinfideof the Collar
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a fijver hook
aad chain as a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid fer restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
% No. 111 South 3d Street.
Dec. j6. diw
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-Areet, .
A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloired Sattins
Do. do, Luteftrmgt
Do. de. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. J '
Imperial aad Hyson Teas
Long and (hort Naskeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTort«d Glass Ware, in tafes
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
Molafles, in hogsheads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
l.ondon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c. '
•«.. 7—tu&i,»w JOSEPH SIMS.
for sale, bt
.William Priest;man,
119, South Front-street, next door to the Cvf
i.) 11-houfe,
.!>'■ A large affortmtvt of
Gold and silver Watches
A Xirce Keeper, by Arnold
Sotrle plated Candlcflicks
DstjMc bsi reVird OutW,;By Mortimer, maker
to tile King of England
Ditto, by Paskcr
Pair du»lhiig Pistols, "by Knubley, Charing
Croft
Refleitisg Telescope, by Ribrigbt
box of patent Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Sma'l colleislion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,0.c0 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Pereival Rutler, in 1787.
AJlo, 14 Lake £rie Lots
Invoices orpaicels of Watches bought.
J.nntary 4. d?f
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Eau America* from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Cfaefnut Street.
-CATALOGUES
Of the newly isnptJrtcdbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual itock, form an
extensive and eleqant colleflion of ancient and
modern literature, Ind comprise books in sun
dry languages and on various fubje&s.
Tf/iijjypy m Published,
By J. ORM R OD, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and embellilhed with an
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three euts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
0 *'
The Juvenile Friend j
Being a valuable collection of interefiing and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
youag minds the happy effe<ft> of youthful in
nocence a ; sd filial aiFe&ion—ln prose and verf«.
DefignVld to improve and araufe the rising geae
ration.
In the Press," and will be speedily publilhed,
D^.JM&WIN'S
Plan -ofFtmale Education.
Subfcriptians for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will'contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered te fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embellished with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t.
All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Eftateofthe
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
bring in their accounts pioperly attefied, on or
before the firft day of (January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. $
~ LEFT
At Alderman Bedford's office, Lombard ftreef,
£B, abost three weeks ago, a wiole piece
of cotton, supposed to be stolen—any person
having 101 l the fame, proving propfrty and pay
ing charges may have it again.
December 16. *eo3t.
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF':
and ED WARD FOX't Engagements
TN consequence of many having been prevent
led, trow late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. TheTruftees now inform them, thev
are ready toiflue rtie fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided tor their payment.
;#RY PRATT,
MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
~t ) o^,49HNASHLEY,
•th/vv? rfii BAKER.
December i S .
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whons he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kepi open for their infpec
tionfince December are to theilft
ult. aud Will during the present month -temain
open at b.s Countihg-houTe in Chefnut Street for
their further inneftigstioo and fcrut ny
GIIEH "- EAF -
Canal Lfittery—No. 11.
ITTILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
„ Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
QoUart, at WW BLACKBURN't lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-llreet—
Tickets iu the Schuyikiil Bridge Lottery, at Tm
Dollar,, where check tfobks are kept for rever
ing and exanviniog in these, the City of Waftinv
ton, No- U. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Umon.
, ~N ' B ' I T ! 5 t b J Uflne r f ' as aBaOKER ' in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountrtg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, HSttfca, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
,y. , Wm. BLACKBURN.
noti ember 15.
For Sale, by the Package,
or good notes a< sixty or ninetydays,
Bo«k an 4 Jaconet Muflitie plain "J
(tripes," and Checks j
do. do. Tamboured J> florted in
do. Ladies i.4 _ packages,
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz miiflin for home and the Weft
India market, Pu'.licote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback oiv ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricks and an
assortment of muslin by the piece.
, The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufaflurers in Britain.
To be seen at William Biackburn's
Ofiice, No. 64, South Second Street.
N(?v. 6. sawtf.
[Volume XIII.WJSH ItfiGfON UOTTEUr, A'o.ll
I.IST OF I'aifCt .Wja
IJawing;—Oil. it-
A'o. £Wj. iVai Djlic So- Oats- A';. Dvls.
463 iojJO ■ 4?» .. ?B^iß
4'ii? 50 376 2J ? 2 9 *>7.> *
876 x 11161 *7*6? *
16:6 x ®*s7# 48?
887 11413 *9.'.*9 j>74
ijci 479 x W9 800
jCB 707 94 1 8»9 x
3564 11373 39655 404^J
7<4 418 93» J 6 -*
985 907 x 3»««9 * 9" *
4 X UOS7 »5j 41.*5'
691 154 373 * 9"9
7J6 15729 31604 4Ji'o
S«5 1807; 6C5 »0J -
5611 XO9 99 6 * 33.
8,2 7i» 33-79 * 88? x
ori x icioj 406 44-5 J
t'-n. Usii. ™ 34453 * ?«*'£
»j J8 3>34J b S)
795 804 35741 4«5"
Bti 9»y *5 5 47,Wi.*
?9."4 •3389 j4n» 8-9
9415198
<B7 788 071 X"
814 2'1469 I°» 8' 9
140 th day's Drawing—November 4*
91 13077 *3643 37560
194 765 »4°59 7'7
270 14047 "6 75°
300 x 435 6ot , 9 2 3
jo4i x 623 x 66; jSo6i x
?OX X, IJ22J 15517 716
601 43* 77° * 40193
6JI X 6n 819 444 X
7.-4 x 680 28474 4HOO
•t. »ijo Bjt &V 7 435 *
89? 8«;t 7'3 516 *
s9*B 9»1 774 41717
4352 x 16191 875 8i»
j('.4 6? 1 19136 io 431'9
459 640 3J7 x 189
5094 17«33 6 4' * 3 , 6 x
416 .05 3°»,5? K 664
419 693 x 365 804
530 x 705 x -o»5 44097
734 9»i ,?«»! *, '7B x
977 I*3s* 533 *'565
6080 687 !si ><«<»■ * -WWS x
863 9:1 3*419 x Bij x
?3?7 190*7 680 45371
419 786 x 958 * 460 x
86.,- 10092 33739 47049 '
933 * 44i 15 83*'x\. 313
B<SSo 554 9c 1 x 668
977 807 948 7*J x
9019 x 11071 34474 749
198 x 431 x 355 * 48J65
134 x 876 % 14 I
683 x • »mo n\S?JOW 4««
10103 683 c j'|)tP«p 453
171 x 687 ,A, ?I5 x 494«1
413 701 x 363^ a x JO4 50
11696 x 841 968 X j
H;<K 13*'4 37 T 97 x
£s* The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, Wi.'tiara Uroti, maflcr, captured by
i Spariifh privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
cember, may receiviflittrefting information res- ]
pefling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
*, * The Printers in the sea-port town« of
the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above iD tbeir news
papers. Jan- 3-
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-ftrcet,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
means of becoming perFe& in the French Lan
guage,that he lias jull opened hits Library, con
lifting of up*vz.fl!s of 1150 volumes, thf-bfft cal
culated to afford either ufeful or plca
fure. The eoo'litions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town. 2
n. b. All translations from and into the French, a
Eoglifb and Spmifli Languages, executea with ac- •
curat) and dispatch. eoim nov. 15.
Landing this day,
From on board th» schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Matter,
£*£•! Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY t
George i. at inter Son. j
rUwmher q $ c
FOR SAIiEr at c
Wm. Ywung's Book Store, i
No. 52, Second flreet, the comer llreet,
REPORT of the Committee -4>f thcNoufe of p
Reprefentatiyesof c
ed to prepare and repnrt
.gainst WILLI \M BLOIfWT, a Senator as the
United States, impeached of crimes ind mjf- c
demeanors, made ki pursuance ot - i rctolofii}a of f
tlfc -lioufs of Representatives, a«iilis)tiimg tht fdid a
Committee to fit during the reels of Congrcfs, arid r
in(iru>!ting them "to enquire, and, by alt lawful m
" means, todifcover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William lUount c
" Daads impeache.!. and who are tbc c'artlcs and ti
" associates therein." f]
Printed hy order of the House of Rcprefentativet. f (
December 10. §
Chocolate and n
of a quality marmfaflured, »
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (boiled or v
pearl Barley j Philadelphia Porter, Bee', d
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ; g
London Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wing,
fnitable for exportation or home coafurtiytiow. jj.
The highest pike given for Muflard-Seed.
Also for fate, A quantity of Hocking and °
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of *
FuJlians, Shawls, See, for sale by m
JOHN HA WORTH, h
No. 98, south Front-flreet. ti
vrv 27- m.&th.t.i). J,
Thomas Randall, s
PRESENTS his refpeSs to his Friends, and the
Public fu general, informs them that he hasopensd
anOlEcc, athishoufe. No. 38, Spruce street, for n(
the purpose of tranfading hufinefs io the line of
Commiifion and Agency, collrdling rents and out- 01
Sanding il.iims in any part of the United States.— l o]
He flatters himfelf, that from his long refidonce in !
this fountiy and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the notice of tiiofe who ' c
may plcafe to confide to hiiu the management of U]
any of their concerns. f j.
N- B. Security giwn whrVe required. _
tithmota ' t»—if "
By BENJAMIN CLARK, i
No. Ji, th; corn-r of Chefnut acd Front streets, Q i
A large quantity of Clocks and t<
Watches. A!jo, a general aflurtment of Tools, h
Files and Ma'erials, cos fillui ; of Clock Mo»c- oi
ment«, eight and thirty hour brass pinions u
and Urge work ; RelU, chxk and watch Dials,
fprings,jHands, OJ iff. Pu Kice Stone, Einery, 31
Vo«e4! Stone, Cat CSist; bench, (land an 3 tai! P
Vires; Turns, Pliers.Ch.iins,Seals, Keys, Ac. Sc<- Ci
Apprentices Wanted, !y
' - -.l'
- !■ w i~ *ww>4BiKrr f" v~ ■ I ,<m i
%l)t csaf;cttc*
'• PHILADELPHIA,
X -j SATURDW FVE.VING, J t\U IRT
For the Gazette of the United States.
X R*FLECTIONS ON MONIOE'S " VlgW."
No. 111.
On the 2d Augaft 1794, Mr. Moaroear
x rived at Paris, .the fuceelfor of Mr. G. Mor
ris, who had imprudently displeased the re
public, and who for that reason, at the re
quest of the committee of fafety, hnd been
reoailed. He carried with him ample.tefti- 1
* monies of the sincere good will of all the <k
p«rtire;ts of the gO'vet-rtflfieftT of the United
* to the French nation, and to the re
volution injvh chit wis engaged. On the
x 14th of Atignfl, iie was admitted into the
hall of the convention* when he prelented.
x his credentials and delivered the declarations
x" of the frnate and house of rcprefentative*
with which he was eharged, and at the fame
time allured the convention that the Presi
dent was a&uattd by limilar i'entiments. In
giving an account of this tranfa&ion on the
25th of the fame month, he writes thus
x " The communication was received in a
manner very interesting, and which furnifh
ed at the fame time, the llrongeft proof of
* the affedtion entertained by the French na-.
tion for the United States of America.—
x The enclosed, No. 3, is a copy of my ad- ■
dress to the convention, and of the presi
dent's answer. Every department has fioce
/hewn thrjlnngejt difpojiiion to prove its at
tachment to their ally, by embracing every
x opportunity which the (lighted incident has
offered"—(page 17). This disposition so
propitious to America, when his miniftcrial
x functions were commenced, caimot be attri
buted to him, as he fceais to wilh his readers
" -to believe ; forasyethe had only been receiy-,
' ed or acknowledged : nor is it confident
with what he ftatfS in his view, when he
fays that he found on his arrival, " that
the work of alienation jind - disunion "had '
been carried further than he had before fiif- 0
c pefled," and " that things werp in a tram
for an entire separation of the two coun
tries"— (page 7). It is remarkable that
Mr. Monroe did t»ot intimate to the execu
tive any difatisfaftfon of the French coun
cils with the American administration, until
0 in his letter of the 12th February 1795,
more than fix months after his arrival, when
_ he had occasion to apologize for some of
e his misdoings, which had been reprimanded
y by the executive on the 2d of December J
j. 1 794- No such thing is to be found in his i
Jj; letters dated 15th September, 16th OtStober,
7th November, 20th November, or 2d De- i
f cember, 1794. I cannot therefore but 1
e think that Mr. Monroe has not in his book,
represented with candour, the dispositions t
of France during the firft months of his mis- t
fion, and that he is Hill more in the wrong 1
when he arrogates to himfelf the merit of t
impressing the convention with fcntiment3 c
y of moderation and justice towards the Uait- r
. ed States. The favorable disposition« f
- the republic proceeded from the state of c
public affaire at tk«t time-. Rubcfpicrre and c
" the of terrrorifts had been just cut c
s off; -the armies were every where vidtorious, i
and thus secure at home, and prosperous
, abroad, a spirit of moderation and equity n
" prevailed in the convention for a little while, t
and was pervading France : Besides there si
was a real want of provisions. Under such c
circumstances, it was impossible not to ob- o
tainpromifes of fatisfaiftion for all our just e
complaints, as well as a removal of the caaf- n
es from whence they had arisen ; and thus p
the alterations for the better, which took c
place at this period, were the natural result p
of public events, and not the consequence o
of our ministers' exertions,as he most vainly d
pretends. ft
, The firft aA of mifconduft which I have w
f proposed to illustrate is, that he represent
ed to the committee of public fafety that ai
; he was not inftrufted to complain of the de- 1
; cree of May 1793, which dispensing with it
some of the articles of the treaty of amity
1 and commerce, was attended with the most h:
j ruinous effefts on the American commerce. t*<j
This is immediately connetSed with the fe- h
cond—his information to the committee, it
that he •we/Iknew, that if upon experience it
should be their opinion that it produced any fa
solid good to the republic to disregard thole ct
articles of the treaty, the American govern- It
ment and his countrymen would not only ac
bear with the departure with patience, but tfc
vtithpleafure. These are so united in the cl
documents, that they (hall be considered to- tb
gether. w
A decree of the French republic had been w
made in May 1793» authorizing the seizure tb
of enemy's property in neutral veflels, which at
was in force when minister Monroe arrived in
in Paris, and under which the Americans th
had fuffered and were fuffering much vexa- Pi
t:on and injury in their commerce. His pre, of
deceffor it appears, by several letters ef the th
Secretary of the State, had remonstrated a
gainst it, and was endeavouring to produce Pi
a repeal of it when he fuperceded ; and th
not only the existence of the decree, bift w
the ruinous effects of it were notorious from hi
one end of the continent to the other. Up- Ui
) 011 this fubjeft the Secretary of State wrote ej
to Mr. Monroe on the 10th June, as sol- hi
lows : " But yon vfrill go farther and insist ec
»pon compensation for the captures and spo
liations of ojif Jiropetty and injuries to the at
pt rfoil9 of ouf citizens, by -Freneh oruif- lu
(p«?e 5) > an( ' on the 30th of Ju- vj
ly, as follows : "The cases of spoliation ca
and vexitiort from the French cruisers on li^
our trade, I again most eameftly recommend m
to your anxious attention. Mr. Fauchet bi
has promised to ferward'a recommendation m
of them to his government. You will do n<
well to press the priciple without delay; re
and if doubts are entertained as to fads, di
put the subjects into a train for the moll w
early decision. The French rep*ilh twV/ fure
tj neverfuffir us to t? plundered by their ati- u;
i|
!*"* zeru ; aridtl.it we lwve greatly fulkreu by
their p'umkritijJ, the papers accompanying
this letter, if tl.cy be >iuf, nnwiFelV. \Ye
are not less disturbed at the conduft Co
culling the .embargo at Bourdraux. Ifthe
accbu{)t brought hither lately by one of the
' captains who were detained there be genu
it»e. the proraife of cotnpenfation has been
illusory only. You art- therefore again
charged to make this also your special and
immediate business ', and to prrfs the rights of
our citizens in a manner which indicates that
,r " tve cannot wave the jujlice due to us. In
>r " (liort, fir, it is the express. inftruclion of the
e " that you diligently enquire into
c " e;rery ificdnreiiituce to which our trad-- has
cn .bren fubjeiled, and to"remuu!h:ite ftiongly
t'"' open them, 3nd represent the Fajfts to uS firf
ly :ind tn/oytcly. Had not Mr. Morris so
ed ffAfjfupufJy, nreffed the affair of the (hip Lbu
"e" itiis of Charleftufl, which is committed to
he yo'ir care, I would repeat her? all the cir
he curafiances. But these may be: obtained
as w,ell from Mr. Morn's, as from tha French
n * archives. Tie decrees upon which the coti
,cs dn£t of the Trench republic was founded fn
this cafe, which I note particularly on atr
count of those decrees, have el/o beertremOn
t'l Jlrated dgainji ly Mr. Morris, and I quejlion
ie whether much matter can be added to his obfer
vat ions. But such of those decrees as tend to
a the condemnation of tht Laurens, Ore grofi vio
h- lations ps our rights. You no doubt will have
°f refurned this fubjeck immediately on your
a "' arrival, and you are at liberty speak in a
firm and dtcifive tone, taking care to avoid
d- • offence, oi in any degree to weaken the
friendfllip between the two cojiiKries"—
:e (P n g e 55 >•
t* With these inltruftions, it is evident how
y i the miniiler (hould have conducted himCelf.
,s Let ut next enquire what was his conduft ;
whether, as I have slated, he did represent
si to the fcommittte, that be was not dire&ed
'■ to.ifefcplain of 'the decree contravening the
rs treaty of airrStyund commerce, and whether <
I ,m t bf .infs>«i»edrtht Comfaittee that his govern- i
>t. . iptnf ; a(«lr counWyrmrn would bear with pa- I
le (.ienee anAwith'pleafare, a departure from i
lt the treaty, |f wasthe intercft of France.
„ d 0 w seipro.
i) .i ir-iii
n -
1- OF y
it Latefi Foreign Intelligence. i
. Received at New-York, by the Franklin, j
il fj-om Greenock. •'
ii Edinburgh, oa. 31. \
f From the Parjs gazettes of the 27th inft.
1 which this morning, we take the
r following extraiS from the report of the titt
s ing of the counnil of five hundred on the
, sth Brumaire, (26th Oft.) the day on which
- the message from the Directory, announcing c
t the peace with received : a
, From the moment thtf fitting commenced 1
s the greatest impatience was manifetted by £
- the members, to receive a message from the l
Direaory to annoupfe the signing of the f
f treaty of peace with the emperor. The t
i doors of the Ijall opened ftiddenly, and a v
- number of members entered at.the fame m- j
" ttant. Joy was painted on the countenance i
F of every one present. The me ffage was re- a
I ceived with epthiifiafm. It was read by one
of the secretaries. These are the words of c
' u : . 11 I
i " The Dififtery being ifTemWed to the t
■ number of members prescribed by the confti- f:
, tution, have just given their assent to, and fl
signed, a Definitive Treaty of Peace, con- h
eluded on {he 26th Veildemaire, or the 17th ij
of Odtober 1797,, (old (tyte) between the p
emperor, king of Hungary and Bohemia,
. negociated in the name of the French Re- n
i public, by citieen Buonaparte, general in c
chief of the army of Italy, charged with (1
powers by the Executive Direaory, on the d
one part, and on the other by the Marquis
de Gallo, Count de Cobenzel, Count de 1)
Meerfeldt, and Baron Degelman, inverted e<
with full powers. ' {j
" The Direftory, coirfomiably to the 133 d tl
article of the coaftitution, fend you this jn
Treaty, aud invite you to deliberate upon ti
rc
"Asanas the jqeffage was read, the
hall rang with plausti» Deputies, fpefta- a
.prsfert rofcand waved their | ti
at the fitting, re
in JhoSd'.ftg t9ft»s,-enaiifaotd each other,
jean. tribune, and di
r aflSsh«s*Wl«s of citizens will li«
certainljf.hSiftiMedoby the->legiflative body.' m
It wdl weigh, in its wSdom, the juttice, the re
advantage, and: 'above all, the solidity of
the treaty ,of peace which has just been con
cluded. Let us be permitted —we who, on
thislubjea,have so often been calumniated ;
wc n whc \ havc been charged with the horrible er
wi(h of prolonging the war—Peace opens tl
the source of public prosperity. Peace en- tl
ables us firmly to rely an feeing the wounds A
inevitably infljdled by the revolution, and
the inveterate ulcersof monarchy soon healed, so
Peace, in short, furnifhes us with the means ol
of fuccouung the indigent, and of relieving at
the public creditors. a]
" Immortal defenders of your country ! B
Peace will lead you to your fire-fides —to ai
the arms of a father, a mother, a beloved P
wife. Blessed be peace—peace which ena-
the son to be present, when the father,
bidding ala ft adieu to the world, closes his C
eyes; whilll, <Jn the ceiHrary, during the
horrors x>( war, the fither ig so often oblig
ed to (hed.tears on the tomb of the son ! /
" la vaiij luvc you already been calumni
ated. 111 vaift be benceforth ca
lumoiatcdW-Yiou will continue to render ser
vice to ttubpiiblic weal—Yes ! It was the o.
caonon'of the 18th pruftidot-( Sept. 4) that fe
%ned thrive.. [Trdel tr~ue! exclaimed V
many members, j The public will ratify it B
by prudence and by firmnefs—One govern- fv
ment alone ( I «Hll übt fay one nation) obiti- el
nately perfiils iu repelling every overture for E
recondition . but the moment is Cot far li.
diilant, when the foundation of its power tc
will be openly displayed. k,
" Frenchmen are no longer in the fame fit. h
uation as at the battle of Powers ; a:; d p
' • '■ »
> • 'jqn •! 5 : "
by when the Englilli mcrchauU (haU cpn,e aad. .
rtg demand their money, when the present la-
Vc meiitable situation of the bauk ftiall be dif
>n- played, when the excluiive fyfteiu of tlie
he empire of the seas (hall be well imtJerftppd.;
he yoiu will fee the Engliih and the Hanoverian
iu- oppole that political Monftronlitc which
en gives to the King of England the right of '
un being elector of Hanover,
nd " I now again move the fame proposition
of that I made last Floreal : It is to celebrate
'>at by a Fete, annually, the day on which bu-
In man blood ceased to flow. The Olympic
he Games celebrated epochs lefsi illustrious, l<jfs
ito dear to humanjty. I move also, that the
las Council form itlclf immediately into a com
ly mittee, to hear toe treaty of Peace read.
irT- Riou then moved a decree, thj\t the ar
fo mies have deserved well of the country,
u- Guillemardet moved that this proposition
to be adjourned until after the readiqg,\he trea-
; r- ty. —r<l.
Ed Thus is the ofive branch now added to
eh the laurel whix?fi beToie adorned tlie brow of f
ij- the conqueror of Italy, Buonaparte, hap- j
in ly for this country, has been more fuccefs
g. ful at Udina, than Lord Malmefbury at
n- Lisle.
on
r- Iu the preceding details, we unfortunate
to ly fee a black inauspicious cloud rising with
0- a menacing afpeft to this country, and rea
ve dy to burst in consuming thunder and ven- 1
ar geance. The speech of Jearf) Debry point
a edly denounces the government or ministry, ]
id as contra-diftingui(hed from the nation of
ie Britain, beverepunilhments arethreatenedj 1
_ and there is pretty plainly spoken out little 1
less than a formed plan to {trip our gracious l
w sovereign of his eledorial d'ominions.
f. These are the threats of an enemy that <
; h as aftoniihed the world, bv furmoupttng ;
it obstacles, and atchieving exploits, vytth a
d force and energy that appeared almoffftigerr !
e human. Yet with such resources as this ;
:r country possesses in wealth, in population, j
1- in public credit, and above all, it) the abili- t
1- ty, the ■wifsJoiiLann. the virtue of our ftatcf- c
n men aud rulers, what is there that any r«a- t
e. fonable man has to fekr ? f
MARSEILLES, Oft. 9. ,
General Lafne *!as just entered this tovvn, t
with a column of troops which he has bro't f
from the army of Italy.—Great numbers of £
citizens, whom the fear of being alfaflinated v
'> had driven away, and who had retired to, j
Toulon and many other places, "returned
with the republican soldiers The general f
announced his arrival by the following t
t. PROCLAMATION, f]
e TS> THE CITIZENS OF THE SOUTHERN DI- V
> PARTMENTS. d
e " Citizens, t
h "I am now marching at the head of the d
g column : lam advancing into the south ; b
and I command soldiers who have sworn to n
4 maintain the constitution, the republic, a- t
v gainll royal conspirators and anarchists of all t
e kinds—Tranquility, till now banilhcd by a a
e system of blood, of erimes, and unheard of o
e terror, the laws too long outraged, the c
> voice of the direaory,. the'qFiler-vrf'iWtitfti* «
- parte, tlie h'appinels of France, have made tl
e it necessary to draw that succour from the d
army of Italy which I now bring,
e '• Unfortunate patriots, whom the impi- o:
sous sword of affaflins has not immolated ! ai
Leave, leave ysur unfortunate retreats ; re- o:
5 turn to security and the republic—your as- ti
- faffins, your enemiesi are defeated and de- re
1 ftroyed by the energy of the direaory : I ei
- hold in reserve for them the sword of death ct
3 if they should again dare to pollute the re- vi
s publican foil with their criminal pretences. in
, " Yes! return to your country, brave ft
republicans ! and you, good citixens ! be
1 comforted ; you will fee friends, brothers, fe
1 slaves of the law; but the moftfeveie and al
: determined executors of the law, 01
3 " And you, miserable royalists, cqward- oi
' ly assassins, sacrilegious priests ! you the eX-jar
1 ecrable agents of tyranny !if the ißth Fruc- th
tidor has not destroyed or driven you from fit
I the territory of the republic, the law has bt
; judged you ; your crimes are known ; the th
1 time is come ; I arrive to-day, and to-mor- th
row you shall not exist. w
" Oh, France ! my country ! if Ido ftot of
again find you happy, I (hall be able, with
the direaory, and the afiiftance of my breth- fti
ren in arms, to restore you to happiness. ce
" Adininiftrators, ever, faithful to your re
duty! citizens, the friends of the repub- ve
lie! let us unite; judge, punish, aitdj un
ma(k all hypocrites— It is necessary to' be a vi,
republican to live in a republic. fh
(Signed) LASNE." wl
LONDON, Oaober 26. co
Letters were this day received from ifev
eral officers now at Gibraltar, which state, ca
that the Spanifli army is withdrawn from ny
the lines of St. Roche and from the bat of of
Algefiras. ca
It appears, that the court of Lifoon has ry
formally refufed to ratify the preliminaries ed
of peace signed by the chevalier d'Aranjo ' fid
, ar 'V, . cor> fequence of this resolution po
all ttie Bntifh and other foreign troops in tie
Britifir pay, have, it is said, received their fin
appointed stations for winter quarters in ex
P ' )rt "g al - th,
AUTHENTIC.
i/,° i Pro J et » delivered by Lord 01.
Malmelbury to the French Plenipotenti- th,
Wies, at their conference, JulyS, 1700. i; a
(Taken Jrom tUDocvmeMs laid Lefjre Par- to
< liament.) , r g{,
Be it known to all those whom it fiiall vvi
"•'•nay many manner concern, The molt no:
serene and most potent prince George the th(
lU. by the grace of God. King of Great ter
Bntdiß, France and IrelanH, Duke of Brun- seC
unci, ai d Lunenburgh, arch-treasurer and Cia
F^° r ,° tv S 7 R ° man etT^ire ' and thf
Executive Direaory of the French Repub- n
to'th ' g e^? iI J l defiro »s to put an end po
J 35 f ° r f ° me P a!t
have rL i"' do , minio " s of the two parties, od
u COnl } ltUted for their pie- hi,
charged with the concluding an
? iT. ' ' j
id and signing of the definitiv#treaty of peace,
a- viz the king of Great Britain, the Lord
it- Baron of Malmefbury, knight of the mod
ic honorable order of the Bath, privy eoun
-1 ; (s}Uh to his Britannick inajelty, and the Ex
an efutive Directory of the French Republic,
:h Who, after having exchanged their ref
ot peciive full powers, have agreed upon the
following articles
I. As soon as this treaty {hall be signed
te and ratified, there (hall be an universal and
u- perpetual peace as well by sea as by land,
n'c and a sincere and ttmflant friendfhip between
- the two. contradting parties, and their domi
he nions, and territories, and people, without
n exception oi either places or persons ; so
that the high contraftirig parties (hall give
ir- the greatest attention to the maintaining bet
ween themfelve* and their f id dominions,
an territories and people, this,aecfprocal friend
:a- (hip and intercourse* without permitting'
hereafter, on r-ittwr prut, any kind of bof
to tilitiesta be committed either by sea or by
of land, for any cause, or under any pretence
p- | whatsoever There (hall be a general obli
s- vion and amnesty of every thing which may
at have been done or committed by either par
ty towards the other before or since the
commencement of the war ; and they (hall
e- carefully avoid for the future every thing
.h which might prejudicethe union happily re
a- established. Immediately after the exchange
n- of the ratifications of this- treaty, orders
t- (hall be sent to the armies and squadrons of
f, both parties to ftqp all hostilities ; and for
Off execution of this article, sea-passes shall
d; be given on each fide to the (hips difpatch
le ed to carry the news of peace to the pofl'ef
js lion of the two patties.
.j } 11. The treaties of peace of
it ps 1678 and 1679, °f RyiVick of 1637,
g and of Utrecht of 1713 ; that of Baden of
a 1 7 14- » that of the triple alliance of the
r.- Hague of 1717 ; that of the Quadruple
is alliance of London of 17 18 ; the treaty of
1, peace of Vienna of 1.736 ; the definitive
i- treaty of Aix-i;i ChapelJe of 1744 > tl*e
r- definitive treaty of Paris of 1763, and that
i- of Versailles of 1783, serve as a basis and
foundation to the peace, and to the present
treaty. And for this purpose they are all
renewed and confirmed in the best form, so
1, that they are to be exaftly observed for the
t future, in their full tenor, and religiously
if executed by both pities in all the points
d which (hall not be derogated from by the
0 present treaty of peace.
d 111. All the prisoners taken on either
il fide, as well by land as by sea, and the hos
tage? carried away or given during the w«r
(hall be restored without ransom, within fix
- weeks at latest, to be computed from the
day of the exchange of the ratification of
the present treaty. Each party refpeftively
■ discharging the advances which (hall have
; been maiJe for the subsistence and mainte~
} nance of their prisoners in the country where
- they (hall have been detained, according to
1 the receipts, attelled accounts, and other
s authentic vouchers whiok-fllall be furnifbed
f on each fide ; and fccurity shall be recipro
■' caE»giyji jft .■ «* >e -rg^c meat o£ the ddsts
■ - wfii«?b the prisoners may have contrasted in
: the countries where they may have been
detained, until their entire release.
IV. With refpeftto the right* offifhery
■ on the co-ft» of the island of Newfoundland
and of the islands adjacent, and in the gulpll
of St. Lawrence, the two parties shall re
turn to the fame situation in whichthey flood
refpeftively, according to the treaties and
engagements subsisting at the period of the
commencement of the war. And with this
view, his majesty contents tore'.toreto France
in full rijjht, the islands of Saint Pierre and
Miquelon.
V. The fame principle or the state of pof
feflion before the war, is adopted by mutu
al consent, with refpeift to all other poflefit
ons and rights on bcth fides, in every part
of the worla; save only the exceptions which
j are ftipolated by the subsequent articles of
ffiii treaty. And, to this intent, all poffef
(ion or territories which have or SRay have
beeft conquered by one of the parties from
the other, (and not Specially excepted by
this treaty) (hall be restored to the party to
whom they belonged at the commencement
of the present war.
VI. From this principle of mutual refti
fufion, the two parties ha.e agreed to ex
cept r which (hall
remain to his Britannic majesty, in full fo
veretgntv.
VII. In all the cases of restitution pro
vided by the present treaty, the fortrefles
(hall be restored in the fame condition in*
which they now are, and no tnjnry (hall be
done to any works which shall have been
fince the cpnqueft of them.
vrri. It is also agreed, that in every
cafe of restitution or cession provided by a
ny of jtjje, articles of the treaty, the term
of tfiree years from the date of the notifi
cation of the treaty in the refpedtive territo
ry or places restored or ceded,(hall be allow
ed to persons, of whatever description, re
siding or being in the said territory or place,
possessed of property therein under any ti
tle exiftiug before the war, or which has
since devolved to them by the laws then
existing ; during which term of three year?,
they (hall remain and rcfide unmolested ir»
the exercise of their reliffiou, and in the en.
o '
joymentof their pofLllions and -
p-011 the conditions and titles under which
they Co acquired the fame, without bring
liable m any manner, or under any pretence
to he prosecuted or sued for their past con
duct, except as to thejdifcharge of just debts
to individuals ; and that all those f who,
within the time of months after the
notification of this treaty, (hall declare to
the government, then established. the'r in
tention to withdraw themselves, or their ef
fects, and to remove to fnme other place,
Ciall have and obtain within one month af
ter fu«i declaration full liberty to depart
nd to remove their effedts, to fell and dif
pnfe of the fame, whether moveable or im
moveable, at any time within the said peri
od of thr.e years', without any restrain o>.
hindrance, except on account of debts at
any time, contr&dk'd, or of any criminal pro
*'utioit for aft* done subsequent to the ra
cation of ihia ticnty.
IX. As it is neceiTary to appoint a cer
! i period forthe restitution hereinbefore
ulated, it is agreed, that the fame shall
e place in Europe within (one month)
Ifrica and America within (three months)
in-Afm within (fix months) after the
ficatioti of the prtfent treaty.
i. For preventing the revival of the
-suits which have been ended in the ter
ries to be restored by virtue of thia trea
it is agreed, that the judgments in pri
- . : causes pronounced in the lad report,
' which have acquired the force of matters
ceurmined, (hJI be confirmed and executed
according to their form and tenor.
XI. The decision of the prizes and sei
zures of (hips and their cargoes taken at'fea
• or seized in the ports of their country, pri
or to the hoflilities, /hall be referred to the
reipectire courts of-Jrrftire ; so that the le-,
gality of the said prizes and seizures (hall be
decided according to the law of nations, and
to treaties, in the courts of justice of the j
nation which (hall have made the capture, or J <
ordered the seizures. And in order to pre
vent all causes of complaint and dispute -
which may be made at sea after the figuing
of this treaty, it is reciprocally agreed,
that the vessels and effe£ts which may be ta- ]
ken in the British channel and in the North ;
seas, after the space of twelve days, to be I
commuted from the exchange of the ratifica- i
tion of this treaty, (hall be restored on each j
fide. That the term (hall be one month i
from the British channel and the North seas, <
as far as the Canary islands inclusively, I
whether in the Ocean or in the Mediter
rean ; two months from thfe said Canary ifl- 1
ands, as far as the Equinodtial line or E- I
quator :—three months from the Equator i
to any part to the westward of the Cape of i
Good Hope and the eaft'.vard of Cape Horn i
—And lastly, five months in allothet parts j
of the world, without any exception or a
ny more particular defcrjpt'on of time or
place.
XII. The allies of the two parties, that
is to fay, her mod fojthful majesty, as ally i
of his Britannic majesty, and his catholic !
majesty and the Batavian republic as allies 1
of the French republic, (hall be invited by I
the two contradting parties to accede to this t
peace on the terms and conditions fpeeffied r
in the three following articles j the execu- j
tion of which the said two contra6ting par- c
ties reciprocally guarantee to each other, i
being thereta'refpe&ively authorifedby their a
above-mentioned allies :—And the two con- f
trading parties further agree, that if their ■
allies refpeftively (hall not have so acceded
within the space of two months after the
exchange ®f the ratifications of this treaty
the party so refilling to accede, (hall not re
ceive fromits ally any aid or succour of a
ny nature, during the further continuance
pf'the war. (
XIII. plis Britannic majesty engages to t i
conclude a definitive peace with his Catholic
majesty on the footing of the state ofpoffef- p
fiOtl before the war, with the exception of v
which (hall remain in full so
vereignty to his Britannic majesty. r
XIV. Hi 3 Britannic majesty is like man- "
ner engages to conclude a definitive peace f,
■with the Batavian republic on the fame foot- 0
ing of the state of puffeflion before the war, I
with the exception of which r '
shall remain to his Britannic majesty in full
sovereignty, and of which (hall "
be ceded to his majesty in exchange for
In r j
consideration of these restitutions, to be here- p
by made by his J3ritannic majesty, all pro- tl
perty belonging to the prince of Orange in w
the month of December 1794, and which w
has been seized and cpnfifcated since that pe-
riod, (hall be restored to him or a full equi- j'
Talent in the money given him for the fame. w
And the Frinch republic further engages to la
procure for him, at the general peace, an u.
adequate compensation for the loss of his
offices and dignity in the United Provinces ; cc
and the persons who have been imprisoned f 0
or banilhed, or whose property has been fe- p (
queftered or confifcated in the said republic, «•
on account of their attachment to the inter- th
efts of the house of Orange, or to the for- f ff
mer government of the United Provinces, of
shall be released, and (hall be at liberty to
return to their country, and to reside there
in, and to etijov their property there, con- t h
forming themselves to the laws and conftitjj,.
tion there established. an
XV. The French republic engages to on
conclude a definitive peace with her most
faithful majesty on the fame footing, of the
state of poffefiion before the and with- fj n
out any further demand or burthenfomecon
dition being made on either fide. mu
XVI. All the the stipulations contained for
in this treaty, refpc&ing the time and man- ' an
ner of making the restitutions therein men- J° '
tioned, and all the priviliges thereby refer- ul
ved to the inhabitants o» proprietors in the ticTi
idands or territories restored or ceded, (hall r
apply in like manner to the restitutions to be yes
made by virtue of any of the three last arti- ecu
cles, viz. the XHlth, XlVth, and XVth, wh
fxcept in those instances where the fame f
may be derogated from'by the mutual con- ° Ut ,
feat of the parties concerned.
XVII. All former -treaties of peace be- tior
tween the refpe£tive parties, to wham the t
said three articles relate, and which fubfilt- !o,u
cd arid were in force at the commencement '
of hostilities between them refpeftively, (hall
be renewed, except in such instances only )10 v
wticre the fame may be derogated from by t rta
mutual con fen t} and the articles of this U
treaty for the restoration of prisoners, the vie\
cessation of hostilities, and the decision rela- c ' aiJ
live to prizes and seizures, (hall equally ap- cu . ts
ply to the refpeftive parties to whom the
laid articles relate, and (hall be held to be in t h e
full force between them, as soon as they had
shall refpedtively and iu due form fiave ac- , had
ceded to this treaty. ;
XVIII. All sequestrations imposed by a- lc
ny of the parties named in this treaty, 011
the rights, properties, or debts of individu- ; n , °
als belonging to any other of the said parties „ irt
(hall be taken off, and the pff-perty of what- ma;:
' !
Ie ra- eitr loind dr.ill be restored 111 the fulleft man- j
oev to the lawful owners, or just compenfa
-1 cor- tion be made for it. And all complaints of
efore injury done to private property which be
fhal! longed to individuals at the periods of the
inth) commencement of hostilities rtfpetlivelv, be
rths) twecn the said parties, viz. Great-Britain
r the and Portugal on the one (ide and France
Spain, arid Hollandon the other, and which
the they ought, accord'ng to the usual praftice
: ter- & law. of nations,to receive at tbe period of
trea- peace, (hall be received heard and decided in
1 pri- th« refpedtive courts of justice of the differ
port, ent parties ; and fulljaltice therein (hall be
itters done by each of the said parties to the fnb
:uted jeds and people of the other, in the fame
manner as to their own fubjefts or people,
i fei- And if any complaints (hoyld arif^rtfpeft
at sea ing the execution of this article, which com
, pri- plaints shall not be fettled by mutual agree
-6 the ment between the. «fpe&ivc governments
ie le- within twelve months after the fame (hall '
>ll be have been preferred to them, the 1 fame (hall
> and be determined to them by sworn commifiion
the J ers to be appointed on each fide, with pow- I
re, or Jer to call in an arbitrator of any different na- '
pre- tion ; and the decision of the said commiffien- (
r pi:te e:s (hall be binding, and without appeal. '
;ning XIX. His Britannic majesty a»d the '
reed, Fren«h republic promise to observe sincere- '
>e ta- ly, and bona fide, all the articles contaiued '
[orth and eftablilhed in the present treaty ; and 1
0 be they will not fuffer the fame to be infringed
ifica- dire&ly or indireftly, by their refpedive fub
each jests ; and the said contrasting parties gua- ;
onth rantee to each other, generally and recipro
feas, cally, all the stipulations of the present trea- C
vely, ty. • f
liter- XX. The solemn ratifications of the pre- ~
y ifl- sent treaty, prepared in good and due form, !
rE- (hall be exchanged in between
lator the contra&ing parties, fin the space of a r
pe of month, or sooner if polfible, to be comput- C
lorn ed from the day of the signature of the pre- 1
parts sent treaty. 1
ar a- In witness whereof, See.
; or l
LISBON, September 27.
that Wefyavebeenon the point of experienc- .
ally ing a revolution, or an attempt at ene.—A
lolic Brabenter, named Serge, employed in the
lilies fortrefs of Ceuta, had been denounced to f
1 by the police ; it was determined to take him 1
this up, but he put an end to his existence the
ififd moment when he was to be seized. In his !11
ecu- poffeflion was found the plan »f a confpira- 1 ;
par- cy, whose objeft was nothing less than to '
her, ma/Tacre all the royal family, and to operate
heir a revolution in Portugal. Persons of the '}
con- firft importance are implicated in the affair. I
heir . c<
, , ——- — J r
the CONGRESS. !w
ratv
tre . HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
fa- w
mjg FRIBAY JANUARY 5. tc
The bill forthe payment of interest on acer- w
tificate due to General Kofciulko, was read the
s t ,° third time and pafled. , ,
IC) I ,C Mr. Dwight Foster made an anfavorable re- 11
ffef- p iri upon the petition of Samuel Louden, which nc
11 of was concurred in by the house. fe
i so- The-Speaker laid before the houre a fetter and si(
report from the secretary of w*r, in - purftiarice cc
jan. ° f a refelutlon of the house of the aßth ult re- J n
lative to the running of the line of experiment j
;ace from Clinch river to Chilhowee mountain, by ? C
aot- order cf the governor of the territory of the
var, United "States, south of the Ohie, which they
lich read. nc
full Mr. N. Smith moved the usual order ofprint- afi
hall '"S* cd
Mr. W. C. Claiborne hoped the motion
would r.ot be agreed to, as it would unnecefTt
■ln rilyprotraff the business. That though the re
ere- port was very long, ran} of it was irrelevant to ln i
>ro- the enquiry which had been made, which only ha
e in to know whether the line #f expe/iment , wl
lich w ". run b >' the authority t>f the United States. ! pr
_ This fail, he said, mull appear at once evident,
*V and the house was a» well prepared t« difcaifs
l ul " the ftibjed, as thev could be when their report '' 7 e
was printed. He hoped, therefore, further de- 11 '
sto lay would not take place with refpeA to the fit- th'
an uation of these diflrefled and injured people—a th;
his ("'nation which mult be lamented by ail who j int
es . could feel for deep distress. t j )(
After a few other obfervatior.s (and being in
" formed by the Cleik, on enquiry, that the re- atl
| e_ port might be printed by Monday) the motion eal
he, was agreed to, and the report was referred to P e:
:er- the committee of the whole to whom was re
br- ferred the remoHftraace and petition of the state cm
es, of Tenneflee; we
to meflage was received from the President ps 'pj
the United States, inclosing a report from the 1
re " secretary of warcf tne 30th December, Hating 5
3n " that the five clerks at present employed in the vlr
'|Ua Lw»r-office. to whom wer»" paid the following bef
( i annual salaries, viz. 1200,500, twoof77o,and fufi
one of 40c, were iiifufficieat to do the present to
bufiaefs, and wi(hing a larger appropriation, to fey
to enable him te increase the number. Referr- j 1
, ed to the committee of revifal and uufinillied bu
h- Bai
Mr. Dawfon prefeated the petition of Ed- P o^
mund Brooke, a feldier in tbe late war, praying reci
ed for balance of pay, commutation and bounty of cou
n . jands. Referred «o the committee of the whole c d
n _ to whom was referred the consideration of the cou
business refpeiSing tbe expediency of excepting
' " certain claims from the operation of the limita- n0
™ e tion aifts. wer
all Mr. Havens called up the resolution which he the
be yesterday laid upon the table, refpefling the ex- all 1
;i. ecution of the relative to foreign coins ; tbei
which motion beiug agreed to, , lot(
le Mr. Kittera renewed his motion for striking
out all the words following the date, which was ie P'
carried 46 to 39. ml g
The motion being on agreeing to the rtfolu- wer
e- tion as amended, Uni
ie Mr. Otis said, since the latter part of the re- wlie
t_ lolution had been agreed *to be (truck out, he g a ]
lt had no great objeaion to it ; but he wilhed to ? j
t [| know the ohjefl ps the centleman in bringing it .
■fSrward h appeared to him caltulated to t'ave , " lt<:
y 110 effeiJf, except to cast a refletflion upon the wou
J trtafury department. who
is Mr. Havens said, the objei) which he had in riet]
e view was to shew that one of the most important m ak
(- clauses of the law in qneftioh had ;iot been exe- ] aw f
cuted. Hiat law directed that, as soon as the . r
m'mt commenced its opcr itions, all the foreign
coins received at tbe treifjry fiiould pass thro J P rD I
11 ; the mint. No doubt could be had that the law P art
y bad not been executed in this refpeSt, and he treal
:- | had no doubt that it cc.uld not be executed ; fy
I and, it it could not, the house o»ght to repeal it. E d J)
. ■ There we.e other parts of the iaw which were
not executed, ai.d therefore it ought to be rcvif- .
ed amended. Mr. H denied.having any
intentian of refle(fling upon t:e treasury de- exec
' parttTii-i:' ; hi- or.!\' objeift wa? to obtain iofor- tf^e
mation. P a P (
man- | Mr Rutledge laoke.l spoil the measure as
enfa- harml«f», h-t unreceiliry, and therefore tie i
ts of (hou'd oppose it. He'ie!iev«d it bid been (hewn '
be. i debate, that the tffjifiiry had b?en J
r . straitened for-nOHev, tljit K coiiM not c<Jtnp!y 1
e i with 'the terms of ih;ifl, except the fetretiry j
, be- had fuffered the creditors of r * 'verjifrrnt tn w.lit 1
itam for tKeir money until it 'cnHd be r v - co ; n? !,
ance which, m his opinion; he wift'y detersiined not ]
hich t0 f '°- If the gentlemin fVom Wew-Yo k th>'t
ftice an 5' or,change of the Uwi relative to
»d of l ' le m ' ,U necefrjr y- aml &r a itviKnn or
, . amendment of them, h ; s r/njeift would he more
: readily attained by moving for a ccwvnittee to
ifier- enquiiein'o, and repnrtupjn, tjie state o f thit
11 be department than by the rrfiVu'lonliehaH ofTtred".
fcib- Whatever night have beed itit'eadH by the 1
fame lr,ovrr ° r the l.itler part cerCa|n!v did imply ;
,| e . a cerifure.uj-.on the coudii« of trnfjiry de
partmrr.t ; that bejngoyt of the refolu- '
tlon -i as oi!v objeSionaWe aa i cing w.thout '
om - any :it wo(i'liJVcj bo more, if agreed to,
free* that: briilg bffdri?cOngreis, oJrciaHy, from the !
ents treafurv departmerft, iiifofma ioii which had ]
shall beeng ven, ia a former debite, bv members tf
(hall l ' >e c, "T>n>itiee oil-foreign coin, which they
lion- jt the treafory department.
ow . Mr. Venablc said, lieiwas upon the com- '
na "_ miette appointed to report upon thk fubjeft
j 01) . of foreign coin. ,At that time, he found it '
I necessary to mafet some enquiry of the fe- 1
the cretar y the treasury, how it had happen- '
ere _ ed that the law in question had not been car-
ued r ' ef ' into e 2" The reasons given, were 2
and a^Sne( l by tike gentleman just fat C
„ e d own * He believed there was anotherrre- r
"ub- n " mot "=y received in all the out
•ua- ? orts was not f er| t tc the treasury in cash,
jro. ut in . n °tes., Very little ca(h he believed, '
rca _ came into
per received would command ca(h from'the
p r£> banks, and if it could have been got back
rrt) ' n t ,n ie from the mint, it might have been
'een °^' al| d f* n t th#re. If official infor
mation on this point were wished, it could
)ut _ certainly be got ; but he thought if any
are- wa3 done, it would be better to revifc C
the business gpnerjiliyj,
Mr. Nicholas A(idy the<re was a proposi
tion comtnitte4,t<J *'ConimwUe.of the whole
house, far providing for what was intended
nc . to have beeaprartuccd by means this law. f
_ A It was supposed that this law wonl4 have ir
the produced bulliM enough, an&that thequan- t}
to tityof coin iifued from the Mint would si
lim have re(luce4 th e circulation of foreign coins Cl
the t0 a mere tr:fle - Th « house had been told ra
j,j s j had not been convenient for the Secrata- h
[ ra . T°f the treasury to fend foreign coin to m
Iq the mint ; but it was not known to a cer- CI
ate f aint 7 w hy this had Hot been done ; wheth-
the 11 was ro . m 'h e of that mint, or '*l
ir. | rom tlle lna bility of the treasury. No one w
_ j could fay whether this law could be carried e<
into effeft in futute. The only way in
j which this could be ascertained, was by the f . r
enquiry proposed. ti
■S. Mr. Gallatin believed, if the gentlemen P (
I who objefted to this resolution would recur l ''
to the situation of this business, they would
er- withdraw their opposition. The report
th * of the committee appointed on the Ll
re- fub i e<a of the mint la st year, which, A
ich not having been afted upon, had been re
ferred to a committee of the whole this fef- Fi
nd (km, and might any day be called |up for
ice consideration', that report proposed the pass- J«
re " ing of a resolution appropriating F '
by dollilrs f° r the purchase of ballion. This re- H
the fohitioii was predicated upon a supposition Pi
ley that the adl in question had not, and could Je
not be carried into effta. But the reason Cl
nt- afiigned for this fuppo.fition was now remov- Fr
ed, as it was founded upon the ground of
r". l h c P'efiden#* not having issued his procla- .V
re _ mation to determine the time when the coin-
to at the mint began. That proclamation g,
Ily had now been ifTued; and he wished to knoyv f.
Nt , whether there was yet a-neeefiity for an ap- 1 M
«• . propriation ; he wilhed {to know how far
the law had been executed, what had pre
!rt i ? ented ' ts execution, and whether in future
l c . it could be executed. If it were fouad by re '
it- the information which should be received, I ~
-a that hereafterall theforeign coin which comes
10 into the treasury may be sent into the mint,
there would be no necessity for an appropri
e ation ; but if this regulation could aot be iris
, n carried into effeift, the law ought to be re- JE
to pealed, and an approiation rltade. me
e- _ Mr. Otis faidttie reasons which had been ous
te given in favour wfridopting tS|s resolution, wi(
were, in his opinion, agaiiift i't.—
Though he belifeved the law never could G.
be literally executed, he beWd it"had been
le virtually exeeutecfeo elf=vi>as •'•aliowed, that
lg before the reporiiolf 'thel'e was VI
id fuflicient reason for not carrying the law in- 1
it to effeift ; and since lhat tim<?, it appeared ]
0 by the mint report, that upwards of 50,000
£ dollars had been sent to the mint from the En
Bank of the United States, which he sup- Uv "
I- posed was a large proportion of the caih
g received by the treasury in crowns, and of
>f course, proved that the aft had been execut-
le ed since that time. He believed the law L '
e could not be literally Executed, because the
notes of the Bank of the United States Col
were made a tender for all monies due to q,,.
c the government, and it was well known that [
- all money tranfa&ions, particularly where out
; there were banks, were mostly carried on in Stal
notes. It might be said, these notes were exifl
? s representatives of specie, and that specie refu
might begot for them ;■ but if goveniment ra an
- were always to call upon the Bank of the
United States for specie for their notes,
- where would h< the use of making them le- Shij
' gal tender ? But if the bank were to be cal
' led upon for specie, when they knew it were Brig
. intended to fend crowns to the mint, they
. would mate payment tn.do3lars. Upon the
whole, as there feempd to be fon»e contra- Sch
1 riety between this law and the bank law
making; the paper of the, United States
lawful tender, it would be best-to refer the
business to a fele& committee to have it
properly digested, and not single out this
particular, so as to cast a refletlion upon the
treasury department. Sloe
Mr. Nicholas said, he had before declar- A
ed he had no intention ef calling a censure B]
upon the treasury department. The gen- . Ll
tleman alferted the law had been virtually
executed, for two reasons ; ftrft, because
the revenues being chiefly paid in bank
paper, it had nothing to operate upon.— the 1
: !« This was a ft range trny of eiecuting a law.
,lc j The gentleman would ;idmit, If one arrauge
t,vri , merit in a law interfered with apether, it
j mull want revifal. If the pwnner of con
' t dusting bttfincfs at tbj. bank, bnt it out of
v.iit ' the power of the trefurv te execute the ldw,
i? 1, ( it might be necefTary to enter into fotn?
not i ftipulatioa, as to the proportion, of French
i'* 1 crowns which they should refund to the go
ior vcrnm . ent » 1,1 consideration of the deposits
ore "hich u ' ere made w.'th them. The gentle
, t0 man's other argument was a very extraor
hat dinary one, that becatife the Bank of the U
•ecf. . nited States hail feut the value of yo,coo.
the dollars, in French crowns to tlie rilitit, on
J j * ,s OWI ' account, the lAvv had Vfi tnnlly
>!u- j But, ' even fnppofTng tbefe
out crou ' n3 could be coon'idered ai posping/rom
to, the treasury, he wifhtrd to know whaLwoiild
the be the future operation of the law, which
lid information the refdhition was Calculated to
its produce.
ie > Mr. Kittera said the latter part of the
refolution having been done ;■ way, which
ett l ° Was ver y he (hould not
i; t oppose the remainder. If any gentleman
f e . wilhed for information from any depart
ment °f 'he government to enable him to le
ar_ g'flate upon a question, he {hould never be
, re against it. He believed their laws would be
fat more con sistent, if mote frequent calls were
made. •
The motion was put and carried without
a division.
( j' (Remainder of the proceedings in cur next.)
!j %\n oasette»
PHILADELPHIA,
Id SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 6. t
iy
f c Copy of a letter to the Editor, dated " Sea
Shore, near Indian River, State of Del
q. aware; December 30, 1797."
l e "Sir,
tc j "You may inform the concerned, tjiat
the (hip John's yawl was taken up this morn
ire ln £ an< * secured in Indian River—and that
n _ the whole of the brig Gratitude's cargo, con-
Id fifti'ig of MolafTes, Sugar in boxes, &c. is
entirely saved, and that the brig is in tajle
[j rable good condition, cenfidering how she
a . has been handled ; and with timely attenti
:o may yet be launched into her element. The
r . crew has abandoned her, and the infpeftor ,
of the revenue is saving such materials as are
)r likely to be swept ®ff in cafe of a gale of
f wind : the above mentioned brig was beach
d ed, thursday morning 21ft inrt. from the
n Havatinah to Philadelphia ; her cargo tak-
IC en out, sale made by the captain of some ar
ticles, and the whole advertised to be dif- 1
n posed of, before report or entry, or the du- 1
i r t'es being paid or secured j—this looks a lit
d tie democratical." ,
ie Lift of Exiles from France, landed at Cayenne,
Nevember ia, 1797.
Anire Daaiel Lafond Ladebtt, late de
r T, . „ P ut y> a C e d 56 years <
I- Francis Barthelemy, late member of the
>r Executive Direcftory, jo 1
8. Jean Etienne Larue, - 30 i
Francois Barbe Marboi*, late'deputy 50
Helaire Barthelat la Villa Htrnois, late '
deputy, - - - 48 <
" Pierre Ramel, ex-militaire, » 30
d Jean Rovere, ex-deputy, - 49
n Charles Pichegru, ex-deputy, - 36 1
■- Fraaois Aubry, ditto, . 49 1
,f Etienne ditto, -
_ Charles Ablee Brotier, mathematician, 46
I roncon de Coudray, ex-deputv, 4<
VVillot IV;i itaire, ditto, 40 «
n Baurdou de L'Oife, ditto, c .
v J. £S. Peffonvitie,infpe<florof thepolice, 45 /
- Marcus 7ellier, Bai thelemy's servant, 40
r Cayenne, November 1797.
; Died, on Wcdnefday morning last, the
Y rev. Dr. Duchee, of this city. j
, I Thursday evening. Mrs. Elizabeth ,
B , Simmons, wife,of Mr. William Simmons, a
, Accountant of the War Department.
Married—at Bridgewater, on the 16th
t inft. Capt. Thomfotj Baxter, jpf Quiticy,
• iEt. 6s, to Miss Ann Whitm *, of the for- ' v
mcr place, JEt. 37, after a long and tedi- tj
ous courtlhip of 28 years, which have borne
with uncommon fortitude! J},
GAZETTE MARINE LI ST.
New-York, January 5.
VESSELS entered and cleared at the Gufr ~c
tom-House, New-York, from foreign)
ports, for the year 1797. q
Jhs.fn. bki. tgs. fchs. Jls. Tot. n
Entered 2j 6 15 9 4 80 284 7J 599 •<
During' 96, 9 %% .P e
ca
Difference, 89 Jb>
Cleared 193 11 ji 240 289 80 895 an
Duritlg '96 9 8 0 da
P''
Difference, 85 7,
Coaflera tntered during the fame period, 1727 an
Do. cleared, 1898 f, O
CQ£- —If New-York has been fraternized an
out of 89 velfels, how many mud the United c h,
States have loft ? Or, if the fame difference D
exifb elsewhere in commerce, what is the M
result ? An answer will require a a great ret
many figures.]
ar*lV*» r : , DAYS
Ship Star, , London 77
Aerial, , Bourdeaux 68
Brig Mary Ann, Henry, Nantz, 56
John, , Cbarlefton
Amazon, Jones, C. N. Mole 20
Schr. Polly, Shaw, Savannah
John, , Hifpaniola
Neptune, , Aux-Cayes 44
Maria, ,
Robinson Crufoe, Hifpaniola 20 i a
Yearman, C. N. Mole 19
Huntress, Fitch, Savannah 16 a "'
Sloop Eliza, , St Thomas 37
And a number of vessels below. No
By the fch. Dispatch, from N. Or'eant.
Let ihe e (hip Tanr.er, M.icy. Sch- F ede
ri k, Cunningham ; who arrived from N.York
Nov. 26, Schr. Americana, Siu-ges, from tVe an
Havanna. Ship Chrftiana. "ain from N.York, ah
Sailed in company, brig Flora, Bowers, for 0 :-
th« Havannah. (,-i(
2 " * w J'IT
iv. Cec.H' tipeFiirida, f»>oki in
je- friK#c.'l!i fiiK >)f. Im-jf. 70. .-". , 1
it ;cf - *'• 4 i foovVr«l.a light utotUand
>n- C4 * ra b--ar«l if J{,
Q f Star, Ac-j. 7.—\\ ehsvf dreadful accounts
lw, °f 'be of t.l »c gale on Fiid.v."
tnc n, '&' l . r ' *^ v * gfeiltleman jrrho came paffei
ich £ cr ! '* c 1 'lvfi® packet, from Dublin wt
r O . 'earn that the w!it,le of their parage fror.;
its Huljilca4 was through wrecks of various
le- defcriptjons and all the vefTels they ijw
3r - "j cre tm ployed in picking up different artj.
jj_ c,es confiding of coffee, cotton, butter, &c<
00 borne of the latter articles was in small full
on bound firkins, and "Coles & Wood, Mar
|] v 1 *797" marked on them.
r t ggP' "■'l-' —■' ai— , jiniicwg..
j- e 1 —
g. *1 By this day's Mail. i
t fe, NEW-YORK7January j.
'" r h-'"g of Prufjiais said to be in a very
he critical fate of health -unable to figa the lafl
•h dijtutche, to his Minijler at Paris. " His Suc
ot ce J or a young man of 23 / What a change
m V>U ft 'heel or will there not be in the Prussian
I Cabinet
je Legendrt, ex-deputy in the N. Convention,
-e I nct men, ber of the Council of Elders, died
J I a flort time since.
re
at j 2 3'• °f o Sober, James Dunn, was
I tried at Dublin, andfund guilty of an intention,
with others, of taking away the life of the lit.
J Hun. Henry Lawes Luttrel, Earl of Car
™ 1 ham], ton.
I Accidents.—A fan of Mr J. Bonne/,
j of Chatham, N, Jersey, was lately hilled in at-
I tempting to dfledge a tree he was felling.
I Near Rahway, a Jon of jfanus IVynant was
thrown from an off, Ightedhorfe, and killed.
a ill
1- I Intentional.— The public are cautioned again/!
j Incendiaries as a mofl daring attempt was made
I on Saturday lafl, between the hours of I o and
it I II o'clock at night, tofct fire to the house of
I Htgh M' Dougall, painter and glazier, Bread'
it way—The fire was conveyed to his house appa
-- I rentlyin an old /hoe, placed in a dry cedar bar
s I rely andfo judiciously covered with iloaths and
a wider bajket, that the mofl direful effeSs
e I would in all probability have been in tfew me
i- mentt the consequence, had not a lad mofl pravi- '
e dentinl!y discovered the fmolt ascending againfl
T \ ' he Jk V *^ e house & alarmed the family, by
e I which means it it was suppressed without fur-
I ther damdgc.— \The above was handed for
- I publication. J '
New Theatre, opposite the Park.—7hie
- immense pile, we are informed, is fa Jbe opened
- on Monday the 2 d injlant. It will be the
- mofl commodious, as well as the mofl elegant
■ Theatre in America—May it prove a School '
j of utility & amufementto its patrions, &a source
of ease and comfort to the managers.
Extrails of a letter frcm Ffavre.
[ This letter is dated November ad, and comes Co
s one of the most refpe&akle houfcs in this city.]
" We have now the pleafurc of advising you
that peace is made with Austria—The event has
J brought no alteration in the price of foreign goods
T a °d the continuation of the war with EBgland will
j keep them up. Altho* the American Cemmiffion*
j ers have ftot yet been admitted to the Dire&ory,
I we are persuaded there will be no war between the
twonation. It is more likely that the United States
j will, in future, be considered as a nation havine
I no treaty with us.**
BALTIMCtRK January 3*
An account of the Flour infprßed 'in the City
of Baltimore,for the lafl quarte -endingthe 31J
day of December 1797 as appears by the in
ypector's returns made to the Mayor.
85,826 whole and 4,652 half barrels.
HALIFAX, December 2-
On Saturday lafl arrived in the Harbour
I His Majefly's ftp Porcupine, Capt. Pater~
In her way to Halifax with a Convoy of five
Troop fbipr and ajlorefhip, upon the 28th of
oSober she was separated in a heavy florm a
bout leagues IVfl of Gorvo—The day after
j (41 pine felt in tvith the Fanny Transport f
Who had'hen run on board by the Bxjton. in
the florm, having lojl her Foremafi, Maintop-
Mqjl and Bowsprit, and her Larboard bow
1 fiahe down to the Water's Edge and become a
complete Wreck—The people on board, after
\flruggling with the severity of the Gale, made
every effort to repair her damage and ere 3
J" r y Majls, but finding their exertions incjfit
fwfirained to'quit the ship, and
this could only be tffeSed, during a heavy
y-tleOn the 6th November, as all the boats were
\flovt in getting them out, lowering near 200
\ PeopleJn mutttr belonging to the Porcupine and
carrying them at different times on board that
\Jhip—This was attended with great difficulty
and extreme danger— 1 he cutter was so much
damaged on he? return with the lajl load of
people from the Fanny as to render her useless—
The Perseverance-os Capt. Pater his Officert
and crew upon this trying and melancholy occa
sion, displays an uncommon firmness of mind
and merits the highest commendations for dis
-1 charging thefirfl and mofl important of all
Duties, succouring and relieving their fellow
Men at the hazard of their own Lives, when
ready to perish.
NEW THEATRE. '
THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 6,
Will be rrefented the favorite COMEDY of
WIVES AS THEY WERE,
AND
MAIDS AS THEY ARE.
1 o wh'c wiff be added,
THE DEVIL TO PAY.
B jx, •ne Dollar ; Pit thri-« quarters of a Doi.
*a ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
0* The do is of the: Tha .tre will open at five,
ai<lthe turtnin rife precifelv at (is o'rlock.
Tickeu to be had at H. and P. Rice's Soo! . \ re,
No. 50 Mark;t-ftrec' 3, dat the Offic* adjoining
tU 1 heart. VIVAT R£sfIBLICA !
TO LETT "
A front Parlour, suitable for
an Office ; a Room, lurnilhcjor uirfurr.ifhad ; and
a large Cellar, which will serve either for Ucrag,
or a bottling eillar. Enquire at no. 11.4, South
Wth-fir.et. j 4n- „
PROPOSALS
rj
FOR \
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS s
on the following Post Ruatis will be re-
< ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive. h
. PBNNSYLVANIA, 'SV. L
f. From Phila'klphia by Wiltiirigton, Newcaf- aI
tie, Cantweil't bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughn, Tra ?>
Snowhill, Horntown and Accomac court house to h;
Nor»haix;ptofi court house week. r j
April Ito Number 15. Ltave Philadelphia ev
ery TucfUay, 'l'huifday and Saturday at a a m ,and r j
arrri /c at Northampton court house on Thufday, t( .
Satur '-ty and Monday at 7Jr m. Retiming. Leave 5,
KortTwinrpton coprt h«»«fe every Friday, Morjeay 0I
and Wednesday at a- am, and arrive at Philaflel- &
phiaon Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 1-8 )i
f m. 5
Nsvenber to April l. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery i'uofl'y, Thursday and Saturday at 6a m, aI
aud arrive at Northampton court houle on 1 ridayi 1
Monday and Wednesday by 7 r Rcturnhj— l a j
kove Northampton court house every Saturday, I
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at l
Ph»ladelphi»i on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 r m, r:
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
tliftfC tMQei a week. G
April j to Nawmher Is. Leava Northampton t0
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 fm, and arrtve at Moriolk in 24 hours. r j
Rrturnbijf—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- jv
oayand vlonday a4a u, Northamp- j;
toi court house in twenty four hours. i rj
November if to April Leaw4 Northampton b]
court houCt everyTucfday, Thursday and Saturday ar
at 3 a mi, ar*d arrive at Norfolk in 1.4 hours. Rc
twni,^ Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcd*ef
ilay and Friday l>y 4a m, and arrive Wf>rthamp- OI
ton court house in 24 hours. to ■ Jt •'
PENNSYLVANIA 'd MARXMND. ai
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
fort,Chrifliana^liddletown,Warwick lodtkrcxgc- , {
town crofc roadstoCheflerttownthreetimMa
May 11' November I. Le\ve Philadelphia every ar
Sunrfay, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 r «, and ar
rive at Cheilertown the next days by 3r m. Re- ar
turning— Leave 'Jheftertown every Monday, Wed- r
nefday and Friday by 9 r m, and arrive at Phi la
delphia the next day# by 8. P m.
Nrvtmbtr I u May I. Leave Philadelphia eve-
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at hi
Cheilertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r*.
ActurMwg— Leawe Cheflertown ever/ Monday and „
Friday ky 8 «, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m.' ' X
MARYLAND. L
4. From Cheftertown by CenterviHc, Earton, a r
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury, SnoW®B attSPtip- at
cef? Ann to Satifbury once a week.' :1 *
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- hi
day at 7a m, arrive at fiafton by 4V*. Leave h
F.allcn on Thursday hy 6a m, aniVc '*t SnowhiH l
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princ,ls Ann by>6 T.
M. Returning —LeavePrincef;! Ann oil Saturday by al
jo am , arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday ,
by 6r u Leave Eafton on'Tuefday by S a M.and e]
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 r m. n
5. from Harford by B l-Air to the Black herfe
occe a week. I»
Lea-ve Harford every Tuesday by 10 A m, and
arrive at Black horse by 6f m. Reluming— Leave „
Bfack borfe on Wcdneiday by 6a m, and arrive at m
Harford the next Tueftay ky 9 a m. ai
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- d
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe toYorktown h
Pa. once a week. o
Leave Baltm.ere every Friday by 4 ' m, arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r
a> Yorktown by 8 rk. Returning—L«avc York- [
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- j
timore on Friday noon. I
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg, (
Taney ton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
week. . .
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 A M.arnve ,
at Fredericktown on Turfday by JP M, arid arrive ~
at Ltifburg on Wedr.cfday.by 2 p m. . Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
t. From Yorktown by Abbotftown.Gettifburg, |
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, Williarefport, Martinf
burg Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafbufg to
Woodftock once * week.
Leave Yorktown every Sfcnday by noon, arrive
at Marthifburg an Tuesday by 11 a'm. Leave
Martinfburg 011 Tuesday noon andarrtve'at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—
Woodftock on l'hurfday by 6 a <«, arrive « Mar
tinfburg on Fiiday by 11 a m, arid arrive at York
town on Sunday by ri a m- " •'
9. From Pittflmrg by Cannonfburg, Washing
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling BWith of
Filhing creek once a week (comrlA
only.)
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fifcrng creek on Sunday at 9 a m .
LeavejFifliinjE creek on Wednesday at 8 <1 m,
and arrive at Pirt&urgoh Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Wa aingtonby Brownsville and Union
to Merpantowu once a week.
I.eave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Wafhingtoo by 6 pm. Leave Washington on
Saturday at <> a m, arrive at Motgantown on Sun
day 4r k. l.eave Moegantown en Monday at
8A M, andap-ive at Union by JfM. jbjrrs eifi X
11. From Baltimore by Frederi. ktowo, Elita
bethto-..n, Qteencartle and Clumbcifburgito Ship
yenlburg once a week. ;iit m -
Leave Biitiaiore.cvery Friday by,.arrive
at Fredericktown oa Saturday by 10 a m, at Eli
zabetlitnwn in the evening, and at Sh«}*pe»fcurg
Oil Monday by 7 p «• Aet'rning—l+nvt Shippeyl
burg every Tu'fJuy at 0 a * r arrive at ethj
town at 8 P m . at Fredericktown or Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thnrfdary hy J pm.
MARYLAND.
XX. From Elizabethtown by Hauccck and Old
tn'A n ro CuniberUnd once a week. I
LeaveCumbeilaildtverySaturdayby 6 a M,and
arrive at ElizaUethtown on Monday by 8 a u.
Reaming— Eliaabethtown every Monday by
10 a «, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
t .1 M.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5p m. Returning—Leave
Ai*MT«l» every Tnefday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by t p m.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P»rtt<jWcco, Ali
lemfreih, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
onee a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a u, arrive
at Annapolis at 5P w- Leave Annapolis jon Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive arPlfcataway ty i r m. & arriveat
Leon'irdtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock.
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
p m, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arri»e at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am. and arrive at Annapolis by 6p m . Leave
Annapolis on Thursday ky 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 3 p m.
y. From Annapolis ky Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert eonrt house to Jt. Leon
ards o»cea week./
Leave Annapoli' everj Saturday at 9a m, and
arrive at St. Leoi.ards »n Monday by 3p m. At
turn.ig — Lcjre St. Leonsrds every Monday at 4
p M, anil arrive a(~Arm»polis theneit Saturday by
16. Frotu Blatlcnfhurg by tli't'er Marlborough,
. Tot ingham, Lower A i.-ltorough, Acqua.'co, Ben 1
i nuiet and Ciiarioctehall to Chapticoontea week.
i Leave Blad.nifburg v~ry Saturiayat 9 a u,3i- Ke
rive at Ui.nr Mart trough by nux. and at l.Q*cr 5,
Ylirl >o'?iwghoii Monday by 5 r M, & at
by 6 r v. Returning—LeaveChaptlcoeveryTJrtol
day at 6 a m, and arrive at BladeoflnufM Satur-
day at 6 a m.
17 Frora Georgetown by Mootgomcry court
houk to Fr.dericktown once a week. p 0
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a «, an
arrive at Frrdericktown by 6 pm- Returning
Leave Frederick town every thursday by 5 A "• ft,,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m. cv*
I'IUGINIA. da
18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, R °« in S-- A
hat) court house, Staunton, Lexington and Finca • rr
tie to Big Lick once a week. e »<
Leave Wood flock every Thursday by 6a m, ar- 5,
rive at Staunton 011 Friday at Ip m. Leave Staun
•on ever'v Friday at 1 P. m, arrive a". Big I-ick on .0.
Sunday by II a m. ±Ut-rui*g—Leave U.g Lick
on Sunday by I r u, arrive at Staunton every ruel
day by 11 m. Leave Stauntom by 14 o clock b
)noon) and arrive a| Woodftock on Weduef-aj ) vv
5 19. From Big Lick by Montgom ry court house «•
and Wyrhi ci>(lrt honfe to Abingdon once a week.
I Leava'Bfg Lkk every Sunday at Ir m, arriye
at Wythe cwrtt houfs on Tuesday by zP m, and at ps
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning— (Q
Leave Abuijrdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by a im, and ar- tt
rive at Big Lick onSunday by II a m. toi
TENNESSEE. on
to. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville, Moffat's store and Jefferfon court houle toi
to Knoxville once a week.
Leave Abingdoa every Thursday by 6a m, ar- n»(
rive at Moffnts store on Saturday by 8a m. Leave Le
Moffats by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun- r
day by io a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve-
I ry Sunday byil p m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3 pm. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA. P
I From Winchester by Romney to Moorfields
once a week. Oi
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6a m, and t0
arrive at Moorfield »n Friday by 6 PM. Return- £(.
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8a m, and [ rc
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M. wi
ta. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week. W
Leave* Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m. W
and arrive .at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 am; P
Returning—.Leave Martiajburg every Friday by M
noon & arrive at Alexandria ott Monday by 7 a m.
13. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
, tons, I'ippahaanock, Urbauna and Glouceller court
house to Yorktown once a week. jj
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock 'on Thursday by 11 CQ
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by 11 am. Returning W(
Leave Vorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at|T appahannock the next Monday noon and arrive an
atjFrcderickfkurg on Tuesday by J P M. Lf
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court a 0
house, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
hem church and Northumberland court house to foi
Laocaller court house once a week- tai
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster courrhoufe on Saturday by 11 ti\
am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court house «v- b F
ery Saturday by tP M. and arrive at Tappahart- r! '
noek on Monday by ■ 1 a m. ,
at, From Frederickfburg by Culpeper eourt
house &Orangec; h. toCharlottefvilleonce a week. f .
Leave Frederickfburg evefy Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A
m. Returning—Leave Gharlottefville on Saturday
at 8P M, and arrivb at Frederickfburg on Tuef- j(
day by 6 a M.
»6. From Richmond by Goochland court- ai
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton ft
once a week. ' r
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p m, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by li am. ai
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at ®
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning —
Leave Staunton o« Saturday by 6A m, arrive at r ,
• Charlottefville fcty 7r m, and arrive at Rich- t
1 mond the next Tuesday by 9 a m. a
»>. Fr»m Staunton by Bath court-heufe and
[ Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-houfic once a 1
[ week. V
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6a m, and "
arrive at Greenbrier court-hsufe on Tuesday by
j 6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court- ®
I house every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at a
0 Staunton 011 Thursday by 8 J> M.
aB. From Charlatlefvile by Warren, War- c
e minster, 'New-Market, Amherft eourt house, g
& Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg ouce 1
i- a week.
e Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p '
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 '
> p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every 1
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefville
I" on Thursday by io AM.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
" letu and Tedds to Tappahannock once a week
V if carried injtages as often as they fhali run,
r " v Leave Richmdnd every Wednesday at 5A M,
*' arrive at Todds at 3P m, and at Tappahannock
*' on Thursday at 11 a m. Returning—Leave
in Tappahannock on Monday at I P M, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by J p «•
lt 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
in tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
at London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
j. arrive at Prince Edwani'on Wednesday at 6 P
p. and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 a m,
and at New-London by 10 am. Returning —
ve Leave New-London every Friday at % p m, ar
li- rive at Lynchburg by 5 p m, arrive at Prince
rg Edward on Saturday by 7 pm, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
hs 31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
»y tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 r m,
and arrive at Fincaftle o» Saturday by 6 t m.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 a
M,and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
. 3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeke. /
. ' Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
' M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
in j and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
ive 33- F'om Priuce Edward court house by
at Charlotte coHrt house to Halifax court house
once a week.
n , 1 Leave Priifce Edwar-'court hou ft every Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court homfe
wn on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
ive live at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
Sa- by 6 PM.
ijh . VIR OIXIA andNOHTH-CAR 01.7 MA.
rat 34. From HillUx rourt-houleby Halifax old town,
clt. CanerS, Martinville, Patrick court-house, tfpper Sau
it 3 ra, Gcrinantown and Bethania to Salem ooce in two
. M *eekt. ' '
by Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
ave 9, PM, tnd arrive at Saletn the next Monday bv 6,
. at P M. Returning—LeaveSalem every other Turfday
at 6, A M, and urivc at Halifax court-house on Fri
. day by 10, AM
" ' 35. Fiona Harrii'aby Hicket'sford 10 Halifaxtwice
a week.
Leave Harrii'i every Wednesday arid Saturday by
£1 A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Rcturn
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
c 4 AM, and arrive at Harris Vby 7, P. M.
hy VI KG IN 1 A.
36. From Smithficld by Southampton court-house
gh, to Hicktj'a ford once a week.
,Leive Hickj'iforJ every Jthir by e, PNfc 1
> ad "'." e " Sm ' a 'oih-'r Sunday by trai
oa Mondjy by £
4 ' 3 ? 7 M F,omGoldfon.by Gee(brid«c St. <
MecVtrnbefg ,„d Lu.«r.burg cou.t-huuies and L<j ,«
store to Goldbn's once a week. . - j
LrjveGoldfon'.every Wedne«»yaiio, ■ A .1. ™ '» '
return .he next Saturday by®, ? M. at -" ch <« '
Pott-Office a hours after delivery of ■ ihe mi . /or
VIRGIHIA & MOKTH-C AROLIN A. „/,
aB. From Suffolkby Edenton, Plymouth and Wa- wi
(hmgtoi. to Newbern, oner a week Lcavc Su f
every Monday at noon, ar.ive at Edentonor, 1 uef- altl
day at I, P M, »t P ymoa.h, on Wednesday by 6. clju
A M at by6, P «, a»d at Newbemon
Tnurfdayby 5, PM R e .ur«,ng-Lrave Newbern
every Friday by «, AU, arr.ve at Wash,n K ,on by
5 , P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday U>r 4
P M, a; Ed uu on 011 Sunday by g, A M, audalbui-
folk on Monday by 9, * M- tie
NORI il-CAROL 1A A.
,q. From Wenwoby Heijford, N.xonton, Eliza- ra
beirt city, and JoneOwf* to lnd»n-towo, once a
W Leave Edcntoh every fodnefday by 1, P M, and
arrive at Indian-town on Thu foay by 6, P M. Ri
turn>»a-Leav.- Indiahtown ev W IWdayby 5, AM,
and arrive at Edenton at 11, A M.
40 From Halifax by Northampton court-houle,
Princeton, Mu, treefborough, Wintou and Windsor
to Edeoton. «nce a week. 1
Leave Halifax every Monday at g, AM, and arrive
,t Edenton on Wednetdav by 3, P M, leave Eden
tonon Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Haluax
on Saturday by 11, A M.
41. Fiom Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave j
Hal.tax every Monday at i», A M.andamveat Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning— cu
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, PM, and ar- wa
rive at Halifax on fridayat 10, A M.
48. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Walhingtononee a week. °/
Leave Halifax every Monday at jo, A M, and ar- tic
rive at Walhiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re- tal
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at », rig
p M, and anive at Halifax or. Friday at 10, A M. £,
43. From Halifax by Wanenton, Williamlborough, w [
Oxford, HiMboreugh, Martinville, Salem, Lexiog- [Jj.
ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte and trom to
Charlotte by Cabatras court-houle to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax «;v?ry Monday at 9, A M, arrive at
Warrenton by 7. P M, artive,.,at Hilllborough on
Wednefdav at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Salilburv on Sa'uVday it 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM, Returning—leave tm
Chv'otteon Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salilbury
an Tuesday by 10, A VT, ai ri»e at Salem t on Wed- CO
nelday at 9, A M, at Hlllfborpugh on Fuday by 9, ve
AM, at Warrentonou Saturday at 7, PM, and at te<
Halifax an Monday at 6, A M. t], ini
44 From Hilllborough by Mount Tirzih, Person CO
couri-houfe, Lealburg, Caiwell court-heufc and Roc- y a
kingbam court-house to Germantown once in two
weeks. dti
Leave Hiilfboroughtvery otherThurfdayat 6, A M,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4l P. M. „
Leave GermantQwn every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and atyve at Hi|lfborough onTuefday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch-
ford, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem evei y other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg 00 Wednesday at 5 PM. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thiirfday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m. »
46. From Louifourg by Nalh court-house to Tar
borough once a week. a]
Leave Taj borough every Friday by 6a m, and ar- p
rive at Loujibuig by si p m. JteturHing—htwe Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 am, and arrive at Tarbo-
rough by 6p m. . r*
47. From Raleigh by Smithfield, Wayneiborough, "
and Kinglton to Newbern, once in two weeks. aI
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday.by 8 am, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by io a m* °'
Hemming—Leave Newbern every ofher Friday by 9 rt
pm, and arrive at Raleigb on Monday by 6:f m» ■ tt
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to HilUborough,
and fiom Rilllboioagh by Chapel hill and Chatham cl
court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every TutTday by 6a m, and ar- s
rive at H»llfl> orou pM * Returning—Leave «<
Hilllborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thurfiby by io a m.
49. From Fayetteville by Elizabethtown, Belletort a
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming- tl
ton by S. Walhington, Sate£lo and Sampson court- 1;
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 am, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a. m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmmgton evcty Thursday t .4 AM,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. From Fayetteville by AJfordton and Randolph
cosrt-houfe to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anion court-house and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
r on Friday by 6p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
" at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
: mjngton every Tuesday at to am, and arrive at New- t
• bcrn on Thursday by 6p m. ,j
SOUTH & NORTH-CAROLINA.
1 52. From Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
j lotte and Lincolnfon to Statefville, once in twO
. weeks. « -
Leave Camde^everjother MohdayL at 6*A'M, ar
rive at Statefvil& on Thurftlay by 6cp m Leave Statef
vifle every Friday by 2 p m, afCam
e den on Monday £y 6P. m.
SOUTH-CJROLINJ, \ .
53. From CulumJ)ia ,by Winoiborough, Chester
» court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
P Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
, from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
- bury court.house toXolumbia, once a week : waiting
_ one hour at each poll-office on the route.
e Leave Columbia every Monday at 9a m, arrive at
t Spaitanbuig every Wediiefday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 p m, arrive at Laurens
r court .house on Friday at 4p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 r m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcfton,
, once a week.
I. Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar-
X rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 am. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at z p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
S9UTH-CAROI+INA & GEORGIA.
A 55' From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
p tonsford, Franklin court-house, Elberton awd Peters
burg to Washington, and from Walhington by Pc
terfburg and Cambridge to Edge&eid court-house,
ty once a week.
fe Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
•f. arrive at Franklin court-house <by 7 pm, at Petersburg
f e on Tuesday by to am, and at. Wafhiqgton by 5 p
t j_ m. Leave Wa/hington every Wednesday at 6a m,
at Camb«idge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edgc
r" field couit-houfe by 7p m.
a y 56 From Augusta by Walhington, Greenfburg and
Lexington toG*oigt*own, once a week-
Leave Auguila every faqniiay at 3 p m, arrive at
n, Walhington on Tuefdjy4>y 5 p m, and arrive at
in- Georgetown on Thursday by 7 r m. Returning—
v o Leave Georgetown e*ery Friday at 6 4 14, and arrive
at AugufU bv noon on Monday.
57. From Corr er to Beaufort once a week.
6, Leave Braufort every Thursday at 2p m, and arrive
lay at Gaidens Comer by 8r m, Returning—Leave Gaiv
ri- dens Corner every at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beautort by 10 a. m.
Note I. The Pofl Master General may alter the times
by °f fwalamd i»fm lure at any time during the continuance
rn- *f the co*tra6i», be previoujly Jlipulating art adequate com
-1 fenjation for any extra exfenfe that may be occajioned there
by,
Note 2. Half an hour fball be allol vol Jor opening
use m "d cloftng the Mail at wbere no far titular time
Kote % For ivttjhours delay fuatemM'l MiiitnU
e<cMdjnuwi*t after the tin* prejenbei inarty en- A „ (
the Caitraflor Jhill jor J eft one dollar, and'/ the de
lay continue until the departure of any </efie,d>»J Mai ,
uiherebt the Mails defined for fuck defending Mail,, Mt
a. trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars shall te U
incurred• 'i.-. a. j
Note 4 Ne-jufpafters as well as Let'ers are trf be Jent u
in the Mlih ; and if any fierfon mctiinjr prof fab dejirn
to carry *twfp**r> o'ber than tbofe conveyed in the mail,
for hi,own em dument, be mufl Jlate in bis frofofal, Jor
what fu/n he -will carry it -with that emolument and Jor
•what sum luitbout that cmnlument.
Notes- Should any per fort making prof ofah dejire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above Re
efed, he mu/l late in his proposals the alteration, at fired, 1
an i the differ encetbey villi male in the term, of bis con- of ,
trad. a
Note 6. Person, niating propofah are dfired to fate psr
their price, 10 gross by the year, and not by the mile. gal]
Those -who contra* -will receive their pay quarterly, in re f t
the month, of "January, April, July and OH',her, in Mo
draft, on the pofl office, on -the route and in bant note,. je<Sl
Note 7 The contract, are to he in operation on the frit ctp
day cf April next, and continue for four years, until -mil
the lit day of AZurcb. inclufve, in tVr y*ar ■ , tjial
was
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, „£,
Pofl- Matter General, wl ;'
GtNtxAt Posr Oitfice, ") CAS
Philadelphia, December 18, 1797 ii , „ /
tuth&bti 4thF
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797* fh
THE Manacxrs particularly request the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
custom, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
(They are aware that gentlemen are unconfaious
of any wrong done to tne interest of the ir.iVitu-
Tion by this praftiee, from a general, though mis
taken idea that Checks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in tke Theatre, during an '
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will; °f
when in fa<£t, they were never intended as more
than token, by which the Door-keepers are enabled W
to ascertain with the lead trouble to the/■ar/i«,that ror
they themfelve, have been before in the I'hcatre, or ly ]
paid for their admission. the
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
such a praftice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other disorderly psrfons to surround the doors of
the Thea'.re, to the irruption of their morals and
the great annoyance of the Audience, .
It has also been rhe Cource of two evils of no in-
confidcrable magnitude; one is, that ftanctimes " e
very improp.r c.mpany is by these moans admit- 5"
ted ; and the other, that ro Checks palling vel
into dishonest hands, they have been frequenaly ce<
eounterfejted to a large amount far the purpofesof th«
Sale
This statement will, it is refpeSfully hoped, in-
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus affiiled,
easily ppove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL y REINAGLE.
Dacerpber 13 ' w A
Musical Instrument Manufactory, %s
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LO7EKS OF HARMONY. A
H A X- P E R, *
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has "
now ready for sale, a few of hi» new . invented, ol
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonqpahant and French harp
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, fimplicjty and durability of conflru&ion, the '
fiiperiority of which flatters himfelf, a (ingle tiji
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they I
are manufaAured under his immediate ililpeition, 1
of the very be?- seasoned materials, he can fell 011 L
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumjints repaired, g
tuned, &c. L—■ - i -pj
N. B. 'Second hand Piano Yortcttrken in ex-
change for new. R
november xB. qawamo.
Samuel & Miers
ARE NOW OPEHING, A
At their Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frelh e
alTortment of Woolen and other goods, ftiitable to
thefeafon, seceived by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
They have also for Sale,
I.ifbon A
P ts >^' l^s- luirter1 uirter eaiks*
Port Wines, J F
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c. 0
loth mo- ajd. t)
City of Washington. 1
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City. ' '
A magnificentdwelling-hottfe 30,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50,000
l ditto 13,000 & cash 15,00® • 40,000 J
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafti 10,000 ao,ooo ■
' 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 :
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 '
| 1 calh prize of 10,000 1
» do. 5,000 each,ire{ » 10,000
10 d o ' 1,000 - - lO,OQC
10 do. 500 - • io,oor>
r 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
- • 10,000
400 do. tj • 10,000
1,000 do. 10 • 10,000
® 15,000 do- io - 15®, 000
t
t 16,139 Prizes,
is 33,161 Blanks.
1) 1 ■
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,006
1, ' »
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,00p the last
bnt oni :
And approvednetes, securing payment in either
mon»y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
'■ be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
e _ This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City .f
' Washington—Two beautiful designs arc already
Ui lele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
m squares; from tbefe drawings it inpropofed to
rg twocentrcand r our corner buildings,as soon aspof
r fibleafter this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
<, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
;c- the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A mill of fjirr-prrrmr will
od he made to defray the necessary expenfeK of pript-
Wig, &c.- and the surplus will be made a pact of
at the fund intended for the National UmVer&ty, to
11 be erefled within th« city of Washington.
The real fecuritieegiven for the payment of the
ve Prizes, arc held by the Prefiderit and two Direfl
k ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
' more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL SLODQET.
■ a t Tickets may be had at the Qlnk ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richm.nd
and of Richard -T'rtnrier'* Fp-rrv•
wee .. .——
Samuel Pleaiants Sons,
No. 74, South SecondJlrcct,
ing T TAVE received a supply of Sealonable GOODS,
ime jn which they are now epening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oift 17. —4W
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orr
Second And Chefnut streets,
Price yitbi of a Btllar,
Observations fen certain Documei
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States
the year 1796,"
111 which the charge or speculation agai
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the T*easo»t, it FUI
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSEIr.
This publication presents a eoncife ftatct
of the base means praiftifed by the Jacobins of-rae
United States to asperse the chara&ers of rhofe
persons who are conllderedis hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes." It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, onthe fub
jeSt el the documents aforefaid, and a l'eries of lec
tors, from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyoud thepoflibility of a Joubt,
tjiat the connection and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
£3" A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor, ot wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Youiie-
Aufufi 25.
Yellow Fever and Peltiltntial
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. odavo-.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 5 2, Second street, the corner ol Chefnut street,
(Pricej in bi<rrdt t 87 I 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
t A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
Ob the principles eftabliftied in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With an attempt to correfl fonie important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly from the records of their praislice,at
the General,Hofpital at Calcutta,
Be William Tatbs iff Chjs. Maclean.
To which is Subjoined, a Treat iff on the aAion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the iure of difeifes of indiredl debility.
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epidcraicand,
Peftilentialdif»afe»; in whichisattemptedtoprove
bj a numerous induction of faifts, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. si2t
FOR SALE, Bt
Joseph Anthony fcf Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, just landed
450 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper iH bales
Bourbon Ind%o of the firft quality
. High proof Jamaica lpirits
• Old London particular Madeira wine 7ln pipes &
do. market do f qr. calks.
New England rum in hogiheads
. Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
. Claret in cases
r Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
' Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring mdo do fjy
' Best in -barrels of the fall fare.
~ tow l ««n
A few tons of Rnffia cordage
Russia feather beds
. Clearer and Timothy feed in :aiks
Long whalc-bone
' 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
h Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
0 An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
" November 8. daw.
This day is Published,
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. us, Market Street,
[ Price one dollar and a half,]
A view of tbeconduft of the EXECUTIVE in tfce
FOREIGN AFF/JIRS of the United Siatss, conneS
ed with the Million to the French Republic during
the years, 1 794, £, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenspotentiary to the laid Republic
Ulullrjted by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance tolhofe who bny to fell
again.
December 23. *6t.
1 ' School Books and Stationary.
$ W. YOUNG,
o® No. 1?, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
qo T TAS now ready for sale, a very large assort-
D 0 rl meilt of English, French, Latin ami Greet
po SCHOOL BOOKS. A Ift, such eiementary books
00 on Science, as are generally read in the academies
00 ahd colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY HJBLISHED,
Shcridan'i Didionary, the edition, in one
QC large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
or) Ditto,.large 12 mo price 1 dol. 7j «ts.
00 Ditto, common, price I dol. 53 cts.
00 ® Air fvts of drawing, packing, printing, and
00 writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pasteboards,
100 (heathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
00 blank Books, Wax, WSfers. and other articles, of
the best quality, used in t»e counting hosfe, or
public office. ■ 1 '
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle<9ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
)OGt by inquiring as above. OA. 24.- 3.iw6w
LAW BOOKS,
be Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
isT y P. RICE, Book/ellers,
No. I#, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
•n YJAVE just received by the hte arrivals from
V ' U jQ London and Dublin, their fjpring importa-.
tion, confiftingef a variety of the latest and most
approved Law Books, which, added to (hole alrea
-11 r dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colieflion tv
s ® er offered for f*!e in this country. They thei ef'ore
ty beg leave to notice, that firom the nature of their
" connefiicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to leftlrifh
re y- editions (as they have hitVrto don?) at the very
p lowest prices. The following are among the latelf
Cl f 1 ' publications.
'• 10 . Vefey, jun'rs Roports in Chancery, 2
Cafea at Nisi Pr-ns ; Ridgeway's Reports
w isthe time ofLqr.d H.'.rjw ick» ; lloyea's Procters
lBt " piaSice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barren's
t0 Treatise on a Suit iu Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
> to 'tke Court of Kill's Bench in Personal ASions, 2
parts coiiiplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on UXe£ ; modern Reports, 12 vols. London edi
'a tion
"lt H* aud P. Rtc 1 expe<3 to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the vol. complete of
Durnford and ijd's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
sm" bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number o£
e ' er new publications.
n " June 26.
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convanient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
IDS rent w '" begfven ;to be taken lor a year, or on
on ' more for a longer <erm. Inquire of the Pi inter,
w OA. 17- !&tf