of t|yt Kniten States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1 7 1 9-J
congress.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES- <
Friday, March a. «
The House being in a Committee of the Whole
on the Bill providing the means of Inter- ]
course with Foreign NatioiA, and Mr. Ni
cholas's amendment being under conlidera
tion— I
Mr. OTIS
HAVING been abfei:t during a very ela
borate and protracted dilcuflion of the
present amendment, and having observed that
all arguments pertinent to the lubjeCt had been
long lince exhausted, he had been gratified by
the belief that the occalion would not require
him to e\prefs an opinion. But Gentlemen
not appearing to be content, even with the ve
ry ample examination already bellowed on this
•tieftion, without reviewing and copiously en
larging upon it, he would claim the indul
gence or the Committee in liltening lo a few ,
observations on his part, though he was ap
twehenlive that his powers of utterance in the
present State of his health would not enable
him to do jultice either to the subjeCt or to
himfelf.
The objects-os this amendment were olten
fible and rael. The olteniibie motive lstore
duce the Salaries of two of our Foreign Minis
ters, at Lifbo" and Berlin; but various real
motives, and of a contrary and inconsistent na
ture were alligned by Gentlemen who sup
ported it. Some avowed that it was a prepa
ratory measure to the discontinuance of the
■whole lyltem of Foreign Inteic-ourle ; other
confeffed the probability that this intercourle
to a certain extent, would always be indepen
dable, but that it might be reduced, and the
defti nation of the Minilters fixed by the House;
otlvers again, contended for the nghtof fpeci
fying the amount of the.r lalanes; —but all
mull agree that one real object was to try the
itrength of pasties; a"nd another, to sanction
the practice of an annual invective againlt the
Executive, and to confirm their to in
terfere with his measures.
Strange as were some of the irgufnents used
\>y Gentlemen, he (hould think there had Jjeen
mure cotour fop them, upon an original pro
pofttion to eflablifh or tu extend our Foreign
Intercourle,. though in that cafe he Ihould
contend that they were not warranted by tlie
Constitution : but this queltion was not upon
the creation ofanew eftabli(hment, it wasupon
changing one which already exilts. The date
and duration ot its exitience are immaterial
the debate and deliberation which accompa
nied its adoption were alio-unimportant, ft
■was to him a new doctrine, that laws mull be
repealed and fyflenis unsettled, on the ground
that principles had not undergone a futficient
difenrtion. Should th:s doctrine of surprize
fce fuftered to prevail, there would be no (ta
bility in our laws, and no conlillency in our
conduct. When an ACt has patted the Legis
lature withourdebate-, the presumption is that
its expedience was too evident to be disputed,
and he" who would effect a repeal of fpeh an
aCt, like a plaintiff in error, should be pre
cludsi from objections that might have been
*»rged against the original process, and be con
fined to a demonliratLon of experimental mil
chiefs. In (he present instance, however, he
■was not reftrictea to this, ground—The appro
priation for the Minister at Berlin was the iub
jeCl of debate at the lalt fefiion ; and though
no op'poiition-jwas made to ajrproprianon
for the advanced gxa«ie of the MuutU'li lu Us-"""
bonand Madrid, yet the principle on v« hich it
was granted provoked a controversy which en- ''
j' t aged all the abilities and ingenuity of both j
parties. This.last appropriation was made on :
the ill of June, 1796, pursuant to the Presi
dent's message of May 28, in that year; but ,
in the fame month of May the House had de- :
cided in favour of the appropriation for the
Britilh Treaty, after a debate that continued
many weeks, and which involved the fame
principle. —It was indeed a curious argument
of the Gentleman from Maryland (Mr. S.'j
Smith) that the vote of the majority upon the
eall for papers, (hewed the opinion of the
House with respeCt to the right of refilling an
appropriation; the contrary inference was
certainly more just, from the decision upon
the main question, on which some of that fame ;
majority voted in favour of granting the mo- I
ney, and did actually grant it.—He (hould,
therefore, perfilt in his assertion, that the
friends to the amendment ought to have de
monstrated the inconveniences resulting from
our foreign intercourse with Lifbonaud Berlin
inltcad of descanting upon the dangers attend. ;
ant on Executive patronage; for, it these in- :
tonveaiences were ferioully alarming, and if ,
they had a right to interpose, the MinisterS ■
ought to be recalled, be the patronage ever
so inconsiderable; but if advantages had re
sulted from their miflion, they ought 10 be
continued without regard to the patronage ;
and if it were uncertain whether they would
promote the public welfare or not, time should
be'allowed to them to make the experiment
under the direftion of the proper department.
In this firft and mod prqper view of the ques
tion, he would enquire what evils had arisen
from the present eltablifliment of our foreign
intercourle ? The answer was plain and con
clusive. None from ottrintercouri'e with Lis
bon and Berlin, the only countries implicated
in the amendment; we were in perfect har
mony with them. Great Britain, Spain and
France, are the three countries from which
our embarrassments have arisen, and these, in
the two firft instances, cannot be imputed to
our stationary Ministers, or our Treaties; and
in the last, Gentlemen themselves will be un
willing to admit that the public interest has
fuffered injury. The British depredations had
never, as he understood, been imputed to our
Treaty with France; it was more natural to
ascribe them to a spirit of violence and injus
tice, which is too common to powerful nati
ons engaged in war, »nd to apprehensions of
our making a common cause with France ;
apprehensions that were unfortunately coun
tenanced by the conduCt of French Ministers
and citizens ; by the enthusiasm of clubs, by
the equipment of privateers, by civic feafls,
and by loud and unequivocal demonstrations
Of joy upon every fortunate event that befel
their arrrts, which rebounded from one ex
treme of the continent to theother.
If-from Great Britain we went to Spain, it
would not be pretended that our nte misun
derstanding with that nation was to be imputed
to our Ministers redding there; but entirely
to her Ministers and officers in this country.
With refpeCl to the agency of our late Min
ister to the French Republic, in our present
i ontroverfy, he was aware that a great diit'er- I
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 14, 1798.
ance of opinion prevailed. There were thojp
who believed that lie had betrayed the inter
ests of his country, and that he was either the
or the tool of that nation; that he had
bad dvfigns or weak nerves, that he was daz
zled by the (plendour of theirViftories, or ca
joled by the ardour of the fraternal embrace;
that he fup'prelfed communications which it
was his duty to have made, and contraCledob
ligatioßs which he was not authorised to ful
fil.—There were those who thought that the
disclosure of his inltruClions was not only in
jurious to his country, but a measure for
which a Minilter in Europe would be hooted
by all parties, and in France would lole his
head ; that it was a measure which even the
mod unjust accusation (hould not have promp
ted, and forwhichinjured innocence could claim
noexcule.—But there are others who contend
that he has aCted a part becoming the Minis
ter of a free country, that a Republic (hould
have no secrets, except such as might be dis
closed to o.ir magnanimous ally, with the con
fidence that a lover whispers his tale in the ear
of his mistress. It was of no moment, which
of theic opinions he espoused. Gentlemen
who supported the amendment did not believe
in rhe former. But >( his private feutiments
were required, he was ready to profefshis sin
cere persuasion that our difficulties with
trance were not to be imputed4o any one
man, but to a desperate and misguided party,
existing in the bofomaf ourown country, who
were in leajjue with other bad citizens resident
in France, and with the French nation; and
he had no doubt that regular information and
inftruClions were conveyed from this country
to influence the measures ot the Directory, and
impede our attempts to negociatc with fuc
cels.
The British treaty was notthecaufe of the
measures adopted by the French in relation
to our commerce, but an apology for those
measures. 1 hey had captured our vellels
and laid embargoes upon them, prior to the
ratification of that instrument, nor was this
treaty, deemed a justification of their conduct
until many months after they were acquaint
ed with its contents.
But we are challenged to (hew any advan
tage*, gained by our treaties and intercouHc
with foreign nations. He thought it easy to
fpecify many, and to (bew the probability of
others, whiclf might (till be expected.—
And firft, France (till continued to manifeft
a difpolition so hostile and injurious, that he
could not relyat present upon any instance in
our connection with that nation to aid his ge
neral position.
Secondly, Great Britain—He did not feel
it incumbent on him to become the encomiast
of the British treaty, nor was he to be deter
red from exprrffing hisopinion upon it, thro'
fear of giving offence to its warm and nume
rous adverlaries. Had the provilians of that
treaty been more beneficial to the country,
had we been able to make a treaty to suit our
own wishes and circumstances, he should have
been more happy, but this was to fay nothing
that would jiot apply to every treaty. But
had no advantages resulted from that com
pact ? Had we not obtained the-weftern polls >
Has not lead a partial comp/cnfation been
made for the fpoliattons upon ourcommerce f
Is it not probable that we have been saved
from i war with that nation, whose powerful:
navy w»uld have proved more formidable to
ourcommerce, than the whole force of any
other nation i Or,tf jjentlemen now believe
tha' «;e <H twn at open war,"
"WTtf they maintain that the Bntifti depredati
ons would not have (wept off the greater part
of our navigation ? On the contrary, we have
1 gained three years time, in the course of
: which our commerce has prospered under all
i disadvantages, and in the last of which our re-
I venue has increased by nearly two millions of
dollars—These advantages were not (light or
contemptible ; but a more important acqtti
fition had been secured by means oi that trea
ty. It has been inftrumemal in correcting
our unfriendly preiudices agamft one nation,
, and out blind admiration and affection for a
nother. It has restored the equilibrium of so
ber judgment. It has given feppe for the A
mencan character to unfold itfelf, and taught
us the value of our own rights, in preference
to those of any other nation.—
Thirdly, believed that the ad
' vantages secured to us by the Spanilh treaty
had never been doubted or denied. It had
been'faid, that for this we are indebted to an
envoy extraordinary, and not to a stationary
minilter ; but who can fay, that the talents
and addrefsof htsrcfpeClable friend from S.
Carolina (who was not then in his place) could
have accomplished this object with the fame
! facility, had not the good will of the Spanifli
i cabinet been conciliated by familiar diffusi
ons ot the controverted points with our mini
lter resident > Or who will pretend that our
interest does notrequire us to prefcrve the be
neficial relations of that treaty, at the expence
of fupportng a minister conltantly at that
court t This is now contemplated by the a
mendment, as new modelled, but the argu
ments originally applied against this eltablifh
ment in common with others.
Fourthly, Portugal—Lisbon is the obser
vatory from which we raufl watch the variable
alpeCts of the Barbary powers, and protect
ourincrealing commerce to the Mediterrane
an; by our connection with that country, we
had procured the advantage of pacifying those
powers. She. also afforded an asylum to our
vessels in time of war with those Hates, and
not unfrequently the protection ot a convoy.
Fifthly, Prullia —What employment can
we have for a minister at Berlin ? He would
mention some of the ufeful provisions to be
found in our treaty with Pruflia—it stipulates
tograut convoy incertaincafesj itcontainanolifl
i of contraband articles ; it agrees that the ef
fects of our merchants dying in that country
hall rot be confifcated. And this treaty, in
common with the treaty with Sweden, recog
nizes the great and important principle that
" Free bottoms make freegoods," a princi
ple-whicK is allowed to be of the highest im
portance to the commerceof this country, and
the direliCtion of which in another cafe, had
drawn forth the heavieftcenfures. But other
reasons for renewing these treaties had been
afligned by the President, in his meSTage at rhe
last l'efljon, which he coufidered deserving the
highest attention. But the gentleman from
Pennfylvariia (Mr. Gallatin) hadafferted that
this meliage was at variance with the valedic
tory address ot the late Prefident,and to prove
his aflertion, he had grossly perverted the
meaning of the meliage.—The President had
!' never intimated that we should interfere in
the adjustment of the political balance of Eu
rope ; but that car. ran was proper to pre-
By John Fenno, N a 119 Cbef/rut Street..
per to prevent our being thrown into the scale
of either of the European powers. A fenti
meat perfectly in unison witli the whole tenor
of the aJdrrii, and with the system of his Pre
decessor, in whose time the grade of the mini
tier at Lilbon was advanced, and whose ad
vice was, that in exteadufj* our commercial
connexions, we Ihould beware of political
Co in parts.
It is for the public to decide upon the mo
tives of that gentleman, in attempting to
prove the exiltence oi a ditferent policy under
the late and present admimltration.
The fame gentleman had allowed that it
might be necessary to maintain mini Iters at all
the courts, with which we have commercial
treaties, but that consuls are adequate to all
purposes in other countries. We have trea
ties of commerce, or of friendfhip, with all
the countries to which we have sent ministers,
except only with Russia, (the treaty with
which has lately expired, and ought t« be re
newed), and Portugal, where the gentleman
himlelf"would not feriouily contend that a
confitl would be competent to the business.
It is well known, that consuls are intended
merely to accommodate private disputes, and
are not under the protection of the law of na
tions. Whenever they receive credentials for
tranfatting public bulinefs, they are ministers
and not consuls.
But, fay gentlemen, ministers resident, or
ministers with reduced salaries, will be ade
quate to the management of our affairs at
Lisbon and Berlin. He wiQied to know from
what source the gentle mar) from Maryland
derived this information ? Did he correlpond
with the Prince of Peace, or tlie Cardinals
,cr Grandees of those Countries ? Or did he
acquire his knowledge troru the captains ot
his own vellels or any of the passengers i He
wilhed, at lead for more jirecife.information
on thisfubjett, and thought the change ought
not to be made upon flight suggestions, or on
account of personal prejudices against either
of the persons now in office ; he added that
minified resident going out of falhion.
Holland alone commiflionsof that grade.
The lowest diplomatic rank now usual, is that
of ministers plenipotentiary ; and if we mean
to preserve any foreign intercourse, it must be
done by such agents as are accredited at the
courts near which they reside, who can have
readyaccefs to the fountains of power in those
countries, and be placed on a footing in rank
and consequence with their affociatcs.
The projeit of totally abolishing our fo
reign intercourse, he considered as perfeitly
chimerical, and when a resolution mould be
offered »o that effect, it Ihould be accompani
ed by a propolal to encompass our seaboard
with a magic circle, and to build a Chinese
wall on our frontier. We are a member of
the great family of "nations, and our comfort
and convenience, require no less than the ge
nius of our people, require an extensive com
mercial intercourse with other countries;
and this gives rife to rights, regulations and
controversies, which mull be explained and
adjusted by such ministers, as by the cult cans
of those countries have a claim to attention
and refpeft.—lt had already been Ihewnthat
on* ministers sent for the purposes of com
merce, and ot requiring information, would
not increase our political connexions with Eu
rope ; but said the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania, " it is natural for man to a£t in whate
ver sphere he is placed, and if they cannot do
good, they will do harm . Mr- O h*ti«vad
«v<rr tnrs priWljSle~mignr be more applicable
to individuals in a Icgillature, where responsi
bility was divided, than to a public and re
sponsible miniller.
Mr. O. contended that this view of the
queftioii was fufficicnt to fatisfy the calm and
dispassionate enquiries of those who limited
their right to interfere with this power of the
Executive to cases of actual abuse—-It would
be fatisfaCtory to fay to those, point out the
abuse and we will unite with you in devifjnga
remedy j and where they failed to da this, it
would be more than latisfaCtory to aiTume the
burden of proof and demonltrate ths.t the au
thority has been exercised for the public ad
vantage. But there are other men whole en
joyment of the present is always clouded by a
gloomy anticipation of the future, and who
are never contented with themoft ample mea
sure of prelent liberty and security ; but
brood over the histories of kings and the op
prelfions of arbitrary power, until their ima
ginations are heated by day and their visions
dillurbed by night, by the spectre of tyranny
stalking over their country —" Whence and
what art thou execrable shape 1" is'*' ques
tion proposed by their Itartled fancy to every
proportion and measure of the Executive.
This jealousy is uncomfortable to themselves,
and inconvenient to those with whom they are
called to att, but it is sincere j it therefore de
serves to be reasoned with, to be pitied and
forgiven.—There are also other men, much
less ianocent, who really feel no fugh jealousy,
but who expeCt to promote their views by *'i
"apparently noble and patriotic affectation of
it. These are the exclulive guardians of the
public welfare, the centinels who forewarn us
of future danger, the political quacks who
acknowledge the body politic to be in per
fect health, but at the fame time foretell its
untimely diAblution, unless they are permit
ted to furfeit it with their noltrUms, and to
bleed and blister it into long life. These men
make a loud out cry against all influence
which they d(f not lhare, and all patronage
under which they do not balk. Now between
these two descriptions, these over-heated be
lievers and hypocritical profeflbrs, it is ex- %
tremely difficult to diltinguilh.—They utter
their lamentations in the lame language, and
they avail themselves of the fame occasions.
In times of alarm and danger, when the pub
lic mind is agitated, when the storm approach
es and men grow anxious for the lafety of
their families and their country ; these two
orders of men are ever found to talk loudest
and increase the exilting ferment. —He had
no doubt that some- men of this latterdefcrip
tion had insinuated themselves into every le
giflatr.rebut the present. If he supposed that
any of them were in that house, he Ihould
deem all argument 101 l upon them. He Ihould
merely fay to them, " Gentlemen go on with
your fpeeclies ; they are the fame in fubttance
that were made two thousand years ago. Shew
me a well alTorted library, or even a set of
the parliamentary debates, and I will find you
an huni'.red models of such speeches—They
are the fame which t>anifhed from Greece her
best and most virtuous citizens, which filled
Rome with profcriptisns and blood-shed ;
which excited revolutions in England and
turned Paris into a charnel-house; which have
done some mifchief in our town meetings and
l!ate houlc yard:, l»ut which, upon th« sober
sense and cool reflection ot the American peo
ple, produce no imprefiion that is deep or vi
lible." He thould fay to them, " yiou de
claim against corruption, and protefs views ot
alleviating the burdens ot the people —So did
the tribunes of the Roman people and all the
race of reformer:, fromtheii times 10 the prc
fent. This was the language of Oliver Cro
mwell, who was once a leader of a feeble mino
rity ( it was the language ot Sidney, whose
book the gentleman from Pennsylvania has
read, and who, after writing the fine things in
that book, has left an equivocal character,
and has "been charged by the pen ot hittory
with receiving bribes from the French.—it is
the fame language that is used in the Britiih
House of Commons by Sheridan and I'.ox,
possibly with gnod intentions, and it wis the
favorite theme of Marat Sc Robefpicrre in the
French convention, who certainly hitd the ve
ry word intentions. —Perhaps your meaning
is perfectly honel ; but no taith is due to
profeffions ; we must adhere to the «ld stand
ard of truth, " by their -works jiaU ye know
t htm."
But, upon the presumption, thai there arc
some in that house who are fcri«ufly alarmed
upon the fubjett of Executive patronage, -nd
who prophecy future danger from that source;
he begged leave to a)k for a precise definition
of the meaning of thole Do thefc
gentlemen mean by patronage, the right veil
ed in the President by the conftitutisn of no
minating to certain offices I Surely not 5 for
tbis would be an infndious reproach upon the
constitution itfelf. Do they then mean, the
natural influence acquired by a fair exercise
•f that powet; ! They will rvot allow this to be
their meaning:' For the influence to a certain
extent being the inevitable consequence of
the right, an objection to one is an objection
to the otWer, and both again are objections to
the conllitution.—The only obnoxious mean*
ing which in his view could be applied to Ex
ecutive patronage, was an undue influence a
rising from an improper and unconllitutional
exercise of that power, and this could happen
but in two modes, either by the appointment
of improper characters, or by making the ap
pointments too numerous —With respect to
the characters of the persons appointed, it
was not suggested by any gentleman that the
President with the advice of the Senate, had
not a constitutional discretion ; it was not
contended that the authority of thejioufe ex
tended to th3t point; no person had yet open
ly avowed tlfisdefigno breakingdown all the
barriers of the conllitution, of opening all the
flood gates of innovation; if any gentleman
would hazard such a pretention, he must be
prepared to order the President and Senate to
take their feats in this houle. Had then the
appointments been too numerous ? He had
attempted to shew that our connection with
other countries required them all ; but if he
had failed to convince gentlemen of this truth,
it would not follow that the Executive was
solely culpable on this- score ; for upon their
principles, the house could have refufed an
appropriation in the firft instance, and they
were therefore felf-convicted as acceflaries
before the faCt—Further, the amendment
would not diminilh the number, or the pa*
tronage. The present ministers might indeed
resign, and tht vacant offices might gain over,
or confirm two other proselytes to administra
tion.
But we are directed to take precautions a
gattift-the future abtjfe of powers that are at
present used with wisdom and moderation.-
So then we mutt do evil that good may come
of it.—This may be agreeable to the mo
dern theories of political jujhee—We must alio
bind our fuccetTors, and legislate for the next
generation.—This was not consonant to the
modern theories of the rights of man. Gen
tlemen malt be careful, left their favorite ai|«
thors btrtray them inro contradictory theses.
Did not the framers of the constitution forefee
that affl its powers were liable to abuse f Did
they attempt to change the nature of the hu
man paflions f No, 'hey were content to fur
r.ifti the departments with checks fuflicient to
prevent inltant danger, and to remedy aClual
abuse ; but they never intended that they
thould speculate beforehand upon the mifchitf
which they might retpettiveiy do each other.
To anticipate such cases, was to amend the
constitution, and if gentlemen could be in- !
dulged, there would be.no end to the paflion
for amendment, every seam in the constitution
would be unripped, every ornament lopped
oft', new cloth would be added to the old gar
ment, and therein would be made worse.
Again, said Mr. O. it is edifying and amu
sing to remark the great uneatinefs entertained
by gentlemen at the danger of the Executive
power, and the'eompofure wich which they
regard the powers in their own hands —It was
another proof of the control of prejudiceover
the imagination. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania, according to the humour of the mo
ment, might imagine a period, in which the
Executive thould arrogate all the powers of
that house, and make treatiesand riife armies
witV,ut their consent. On the contrary, with
a lets violent effort of the imagination, he
could ftippofe, that at tome future day, there
might exilt within the walls of that house, a
furious and inveterate party,whole ruling paf
lion thould be an invincible hatred of a wife
andvirtuousaduiiniftration; a partyoppofed to
every meafiire calculated to raise the droop
ing honour of their country ; a party infatu
ated by the politics of another nation and in
different to the degradation of their own ; a
party forever aCtive to embarrass and divide
the people, and always inventing means to
diltract the public councils, and to fever the
Union. But as there was room for imagination,
there might be some for hope ; he therefore
invited that gentleman to hope for, and to
join in promoting a better state of affairs ; and
to place before his view the piCtnre of an ad
miniftrationfullof energy; alegitlature harmo
niously moving within its appropriate sphere ;
to their government with confidence and af
fection in trying exigencies; a government
organizing, by prompt and vigorous opera
tions, the resources of the country for the pro
teCtionof its liberties and rights; beloved and
prolperous at hoiue, and feared a
broad. This was the pfofpect on whiqh he
delighted to dwell—Th s was the hope which ]
he fomet.mes cherifheii at his heart. i
Let us, (aid he, delcend from the regions of
imagination and reason from analogy
He believed the polition to-be found and. ten
able, that in a government conllituted .Jfice
ours, the danger of an unjult atTuuipti oil Of
power was on the tide of the popular branch,
and did not arise from the Executive—and for
thi'. opinion, he would fubinit a few obvious
reasons. In the firft place, a House of Repre
tentative has ttroiiger inducements to extend
I its powers. The lovcof power, he would flip*
pofeeqctal in all men; and this fondnefs arife-'t
not merely from the pleasure of po Helling it,
butfromthe fatisfadion ofdifplaying what »c
poflefs. The ordinary business of legiflatior,
is a remote nperaiion, the execution of the
laws it a dk*£t operation. In the latter, tie
hand that moves is more visible, more feared,
more refpetted ; and as men affeel power, not
only f<>r the fake of strength, but ostentation,
a House of Representatives is not likely to be
infenlible to this charm. On the other hand.
the Executive pollelling this advantage undtr
the Couftitution, has no motive to enlarge the
bounds of h ; s authority. v
Again, a House of' Representatives wculd
generally potrefs a greater (hare of the confi
dence ot the people. Its members «hofea
from the body of the people, are presumed to
be actuated by the lame feelings and interells
with theircoaftituents; and in doubtful cases,
they have the daily advantage of pleading
their own causes before the tribunal of the
public ; while the Executive is heard only in
formal messages and addrelfes. This advan
tage inspires th«m, in the third place, with
greater confidence, in themselves, and their
refpQnfibility being divided, bold pretention*
are advanced by individuals, the merits of
which, if fucc«f*FuU they claim forthemfelves,
while the discredit of a bad experiment is di
vided among their companions. One other
reason had been often mentioned, to which he
would (lightly allude, though it was very im
portant and conclusive. The greater'facilitv
ofextending the legiftative power,by reason of
its general and comprehensive character. The
power of the popular branch was, in ilvs re
lpfcft, like a river fome times overflows
and sometimes undermines its banks; while
that of the legislature might be compared to a
lake whose margin was defined, and which ne
ver rose above a certain level.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had ven
tured an atrertion repugnant to this doctrine,
and had assigned two reasons that fliould ren
der the popular branch less able to usurp an
excess of power than the Executive depart
ment. It had not the Esprit du Corfu and
the privilege of imposing taxes was odious in
its nature. He utterly denied the faft, that
no Efpritdu Corpsexifted in such bodies as that
house. On.the contrary, it was always clojir
and unden : able. Did no* that spirit exist in
the Britifti House of Commons ? and was there
not another house in which a party was seen
obedient to the very <wink of its corporals ?
There was not more weight in the other ob
jection ; for those members of a House of
Representatives who were most ambitious of
popularity and influence, had the address to
be in a minority upon all questions of taxa
tion, and to escape the odium attached to the
impositions of public burdens.
.He would not follow gentlemen who had
preceded him in their illustration of this doc
trine, by examples taken from the republics
of Greece and Rome. It was true, as the
gentleman from Pennsylvania had asserted,
that no great resemblance could be found be
tween those states where the principle of re
presentation was unknown, and a reprefenta.
tive government constituted like ours. But
the comparison might become just, when a
house of reprefentatHes (Uould engross the
whole power of the country. Representation
was the greatest improvement in the science
of government, when modified and divided
into different departments ;--but he could fee
no difference between a ftngle house of repre
i fentatives, and the Comitia of Rome, or the
i popular aflemblies of Athens, except as the
! former would unite greater abilities and ad
| dress, faction might seize its prey with greater
I certainty.
Bui if the resemblance did not hold between
| ancient and modern republics, there was dill
| less between our government and the feudal
governments of Europe. He would howe
ver quote one or two eS tmplej from history,
which he thought applicable to this position.
In the time ot Charles the First of England,
the parliament conceived the design of "redu
cing the undue influence of the crown. They
began with aboliftung the more odious and
oppreflive prerogatives ; but did they content
themselves with a wife and neceflary reform ?
No, the work of reformation was takeirfrom
the hands of those who began it, and was pro
secuted by one set of fanatics succeeding an
other, until the constitution was subverted.the
monarch was bro -ght to the fcaffold, and the
government fell firft into the bands of the par
liament, who were deprived of it by Crom
well ; and after the people had groaned tor
years under thedefpotifm of this patriotic and I
republican rcformer.'hey called in their young
king, who became more arbitrary than his fa
ther; and fodifgutled were all ranks of men
with the abuses of usurpation, that tho' tome
conceflions favourable to liberty were obtain
ed at the accellion of the Prince of Orange,
yet the crown has acquired an influence which
is now truly overbearing ; but which could
not, perhaps, be reduced with fafety to the
country.
But why do we refufe to go for inftruftion
to France ? Is it from motives of policy that
we decline to moralize upon the scenes which
have happened in our own time ? Or does
not the lnltance apply f It is well known,
that a very large majority of the firft National
Convention, conlifted of men whose intentions
were very distant from a definition of the re.
gal power. They intended to limit tlrat pow
er within wholesome bounds, and to reform
the great and enormous abuses of th<* old go
vernment. They attempted to frame a con
stitution, after deciding in favour of a legis
lature with one branch, which deftroyed°the
hope and poilibility of a constitution, and
when the wretched instrument that was called
by that name was produced, and the only
good feature which it contained was, the ne
gative giv.-n to the king ; the legislative boilv
intoxicated with power, and impelled by it?
furious leaders, compelled the monarch to
renounce it. This i.tcrifice, was soon sealed
with his blood ? Popular leaders then l'quah
bled for the supreme power, the people look
ed on with horror. Robcfpierre prevailed
the fame Robespierre who had so often raived
ag»£>£ corruption and waftc of public money,
1, draw a veil over the mournful, well known
sCenes that followed. It is fufficient, that the
people, flying for refuge from anarchy back
to defpotilm, have permitted the Executive
Directory to take all the powers of the nation
into their hands, to hold the prize, to com
mand the army, and to-difpofe of the lives of
the citizens.
It is, therefore, for our common interest,
to extend the powers of the house, with the
greatest caution, other-.vifc precedent will fol
low precedent, one will lead t«
[Vez.vM£ XIII.'ier r «*/i»ii iii*> ne«.p!e fte t'.e'i*
cu !ve prottrate, they t'tty com* iiLto his
protection, and furnith htm v. ith'mAr of
Itnportiiig hiuiiclf that would be truly for
tA.jibSt.
Vlr. O. obfened, tliat he Ihould hive at
tempted to (hew, tlut these lcgiflative en
er ichments had fometimrs happened in oar
own country ; but the "gentleman from New.
Jerley (Mr. Imla v) had read the authority on
which he meant to rely. It was Mr. Jener
fon'f notes on Virginia. He would, however,
take occafton to read another paflage, to ano
ther point.. When the gentleman from Ma
ryland (Mr. Smith) was pleased to compli
ment the Virginia members with the putt di
rect, he did not know but that some invidious
reflexions had been made upon that date.—
Thedefign, however, was understood bv him.
when he perceived that a gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. T. Claiborne) by a rideran
i nexed to his written (peech, returned the
compliment to the people ot Maryland. For
h s part, he thought it highly improper to
criminate the designs of the people of any one
(late, hc presumed the people of Virginia
were like other people, ami with some of
their representatives it was his pride and his
pleasure to think and to aft. There were
others from whom he differed in politics, and
whose measures and opinions of government,
he believed to be pernicious and unfounM—
But for them tie found an apology in that
book ; Mr. O. then read the parage in Jeffer
• Con's notes page 194 —where ;t is hinted that
j lie govern me nt of Virginia is an tltXivt def
foii/'tt j and a palTage page 195, to thisefFecl,
" that the direction of the Executive during
the whole time of their session, has become
habitual and familiar." It was, therefore,
natural for gentlemen edusated in thole habits
of diftatingto their Executive npon all occa
sions, to form erroneous ideas ot government,
• and of the Federal Confutation. Mr. Jeffrr
fon has indeed remarked in the fame book,
that this conduft of the legislature ofVirginia,
" proceeded from the heft intention 1, and that they
lucre m 'jlcd hy art and dejign in otters" —He did
not m?an to dispute upon the fubjeft of their
intentions, but their measures he could never
approve. .
\ftcr so much had been said upon the fub
vcct ot Executive Patronage, Mr. O. would
add but a fe<v obfervatiohs. The patronage
of the Executive was fairly presumed to be
the patfonage of the people. When a man,
afterrendering the mod important services to
his country for a series of years, is defied at
an important crisis of national affairs to the
liigh office of President of these dates ; his po
litical opinions, in general, and his sentiments
upon the exiding (late of affairs, mud have
been known to the people by whom he was
deftcd. It mufl all'< have been forefeen,
that he would purfije ftich a fydem of adminif
-11 alien, and hy the aid of fitch means and a-
tits as would be bed calculated to give effi
cacy to his own sentiments and fydem. His
fyflem, therefore, may be considered as fanc
tioued by the previous a (Tent of the majority
ot the people. His conditional patronage
is the patronage of that majority, and to m
creafe that majority by all fair means, istoin
treafe the chance of public tranquillity. It
is an important duty that fbopld bejudicioufly
exercised, and no' an offence to be disavowed.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania, as a
pipofof the patronage already enjoyed by the
Kxeeiitivtj h_d exhibitedanaggregateamount
of the salaries of the public officers, and con
tractors 111 the United States. Biira large
proportion of these officers were not appointed
by the Executive, nor d : d they feel any de
pendence upon him. In many instances.they
would be found among the mod zealous op
pofers of his measures, and cnlilled under the
banners of his adversaries. Numbers of them
appointed by the heads of department?, were
ur.knowa to the President, and feeling morally,
sure of retaining their oljiccs, except in cafe;
ofgrofs mifbehaviotir, they were often led, by
the violence of oppolition, to prepare for a
change ofmen and measures, and to be more
solicitous for the favour of members in that
Itou/e, w ho might attempt to raise or diminilh
their falaties, than of the Executive himfelf.
After so much liad been said refpefting the
"cnltitutional right of the House to refufe an
.appropriation, Mr. Otis obfevved that hc
Ihould add but a few remarks.—To prevent
conftifion on this subject, it might be well to
tfate the poiuts in which both fides of the
House were agreed, and those in which they
'hflVnted, —It was not denied that the Presi
dent had the right of nominating public Mi-,
nillers; nor had it been contended that the
iloufe pollelfed the right of fixing their fala
i is; the doctrine ot his friends was merely
that the appointment of a Minister imposed
a moral obligation to give a reasonable fahjjy,
and that beinjj once' determined, it was unjiid
to reduce it without tiie bed reasons. It was
doubted by the Gentleman from Pennsylva
nia, whether the office of Minider.was crea
ted by the Constitution, and whether it was
not competent to this House to fix the dedi
nation of a Minister, and it was afl'erted by
him that in all cases the House had an autho
rity to refufe appropriation. On these
tall ppints they were at iffiie. To explain the
reason of his doubt refpefting the right of the
president to designate the Courts to which the
Ministers (hould be lent, thafGentleman had ,
rclici that the fame clause in the Conditution
which gives the power of appointing Minif
ies to the Executive, aifo gives that of ap
pointing Judgesof the Supreme Court; which ,
he never pretended to cxercife until the num. ;
btr of Judges had "been afcertaincd by law.— |
In this argument he hardly appeared to be
ferions 1 but he would answer, that the fame
-Conditution provides that a Supreme Court
f ; ill be edabliflied by law," and it lias no ex
lttanee until created by law.—A Court is a
,urifdiftion committed toone ornvore persons;
the jurisdiction is conllituted by a Idw, which 1
defcrifces the number ot persons to whom it 1
nallbecommitted; the Executive then appoints '
those who ire to exercise this legal jurifdiftion. 1
In cafe of foreign Miniders, if their deftina
fco:i ntud be edablidied by the I.egifiature, the
cbjeftj of their miffton mud also be anderdood
-ind ratilird by the fame authority, or it mud
be exercised without discretion ; and the
whole power of negociation would thus be ,
attraftcd as incident ta the other.
It was further urged bv the lame Gentle- ,
•tun, that in all cases the House might refufe ;
to appropriate ; otherwise the Executive
r.t'ght ablorb all the powersof thelegillature,
.ught toon I reaties ot Alliance, maintain an ,
Army ind Navy, all the public
tie.ifure.
I.et us conrtder, on the other hand, the
consequence of that Gentleman's rWtrinc.—
.J very appointment made by- the Executive
comes a nullity, unless ratrjed by that '
House ; in the face of the Conllitution whidi
'•xcludes them, and confines this dutv to tJie.
with the advice of the Senate.
It was owing to the apparent
' .Jingtrom athrorotical view of confutations
tke ours; that they wer~ pronoiftKed to be
■practicable by some »>f the bed writers of
■> itiquity. And these abdract qtiefitons and
cafes were not calculated to reconcile i
.muds of our citizens to our excellent torn
kl government. It is a plain conclutive I
reply, by w liich 411 such objections are ob> 1- ?
5 luted, that tlje.Conditutiqn i» ntt prcdicaf 1 j
f I upbn a preftuned abttle ot power by any de- |
■ 1 parrment ; but on the more reasonable conh- j
I den. c that each w ill pei lorm its duty with;.i
. | its o'vn sphere with (iuccrity, that d.vision of
■ I sentiment will yield to reason and explanat:-
r j on, and that extreme cases are not likely to
1 j ?>ne word in relation to the motives of Gen
. I tlemen, and he would finidi h:s obferyations,
, which, he was admonished, by his voice and
. »teelings hid been too much extended. Why,
said Gentlemen, do you charge us with de
. I signs to subvert the Conditution t Have we
. ' not our (hare of wealth and ot power ? He
i I was not one of those who had imputed fucli
■ designs to Gentlemen ; nor would he pretend
, to (ay whether the part of the Union repre
-1 fented by thole Gentlemen was ritto, or gene
■ rally involved in debt. But he would fay,
; that wealth was not alw ays a fecurity.forpub
r lic or private virtue. Was not the Duke ot
> Orleans rich • Was hot his income equal to the
reivenuc of a kingdom ? But hc was not fatis
fidd with his elevated rank or princely for
f tune —Heconfpired-with others, men high in
s dation, who poflelTed both riches and their
r (hare ot power, and promoted a revolution
I which, like a whirlwind, swept thctnofl into
, fwift dedruftion.—lt is not easy to dilcern,
- 'and therefore not always neceflary to impeach,
the motives of men. When, therefore, a
Gentleman exclaims, we want no revolution,
: we wilh for no change, we wish to keep things
quiet, he was not authorised to dilpute the
ztfurance, and fay it was uot true.
But when, in the fame breath, lieheardin- ,
(■filiations eompar : ng the I'relideut ot the
United States to Charles I. and the mild ex
ercise of a conditutional power to the odious
claim oi Jhif-money, in that reign; and w4ien '
he heard further, the opposition to the pre
fentbill compared to an oppolition to that o
dious measure, he would not fay that he dif- ,
credited the profeffions of Gentlemen —God (
only knew fheir hearts, but their language
was full of danger.
The Gentleman from Pennsylvania had '
concluded with an invitation to his friends to i
unite with him in twoobjefts; in preventing :
the incrrafc of foreign Influence, and In dirai- (
nidiing the expenditure of ttie public money.
He would meet that Gentleman; and, if lie
and his friends would discover a real disposi
tion to join in measures to prevent the increase '
of foreign influence ; he (hould almolt be in- '
rlined so secure that advantage, by confcnt- 1
ittg, for himfelf, that they should dispose of >]
the money upon their own plans. I
Tuesdav, March 13.
Mr. Co it, from the Committee of Elec- .
tions, made a further report, which was or- 1
dered to lie upon the table. '
Mr. Livingston observed, that the Set
nate having tniided 011 their amendments to ! ,
the bill' affording relief to the refugees from j
Canada and Nova-Scotia, he wished a com- j
mittee of conference to be appointed to confer I
with the Senate. i 1
Tiie Speaker said it was firft necedary for t
the House to determine they ivould not recede I
from theirdifagreeinent to their amendments. c
The (enfe of the iloufe was accordingly ta- :
ken, and having determined to inlid on their *
difagreenient, a committee of conference was
appointed. '
Mr. D. Foster, from the Committee of t
Claims, made an unfavourable report on the a
petition ofWilliam Thome,-which was order- j
ed to lie onthe table. «
The Speaker laid before the Hpufea com
munication from the Secretary of the Treafu- ®
ry, inclosing a report on the petition of the "
Portland Marine Society, who pray for cer- v
tain buoys to be placed in Portland harbour, f
The report is favourable, recommending the e
placing of fix buoys in the said harbour, the r
expence of which is ellimated at 400 dollars.
The report was referred to the Committee of a
Commerce and Manufactures, with indujCii- ' £
ons to report by bill or otherwise. j r
A message was received from the Senate, 1 e
informing the House tlut they had pafl'ed the e
bill for the support of Government for the
♦ear 1798, and tor ether purposes ; to the bill
providing the means of intercourse with for- '
eig'i nations ; and to the conference proposed j \
with refpeft to the amendments bill for t
relief of Refugees from Canada an<tN.Scotia. ' n
Mr. Sew At, l wished the House ftp go into c
* Committee of the Whole on the date of the
Union, in order to take into consideration the .
resolutions which had been referred to it. J'
This motion was objected to, 011 the ground
of further information being expefted from c
the President with refpeft to our dispute with f
France, and occasioned a very warm debate v
(which (hall be given to-morrow). It was
at length agreed to go into a Committee of the
Whole, when 115,833 dollars were appropri- *
ated for completing and equipping the three c
frigates for sea ; aiid also a relolution appro-
prating dollars for the pay and sub- n
fidence of the crews, and for the wear, lofles, r
expenditure of ammunition, and other cur- i,
rent and contingent expences of the naval
armament. e
1 liefe two resolutions having been agreed
to, the committee rose, the House concurred g
in them, and a bill was dira'ted to be report- h
ed accordingly.
The House then, ou motion of Mr. Liv- •
incstos, wer.t into a Committee of the
Whole 011 the bill fupplemsntary to the aft for a
edablilhing the Judicial Courts of the United «
States; but not having gone through the bill P
the committee rose, and had leave to fit »jain. g
Adjourned. h
A Great Bargain. "l
WILL BE SOLD, if applied for immediate ci
ly, Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills of ; r
CredU, upon intcreft at fire percent, per annum ,
now lodged in the Tr«afury, «nd endorsed by the 1
United States, with a promise to " pay the intc- a(
r<ft annually." (j.
inquire at the Office of THOMAS McEWEN tt
Co - march i 3 -^t
Wanted to live in the Country
About five mi!*s from this'city, a fuber ftea-' "]
day M;n who understands gardening and the
manapement of a few teres of land, an 1 would r °
not objeft to attend a couple of horfts. Such ,f;
a one may meet with liberal wag,s hy applying tb
at the office of this Gazette. p,
r 3' B m N r Jf " te '' »PP'y those of unex- at
Cfptior.ablc cbaraO.crg. ,
March 13. g
NANKEENS.
dj
Ten thousand pieces Nankeens, 2
TOR SALE on a libtrat credit, by 01
SAMUEL HAYS, o.
niar* b"> liy, «-'h«fn a t Street. Ci
eodtit ( j.
6/. Croix .Sugars. re
J6 ho.duads bed ST. CixOIX SUGAR, tii
for sals. by c ;
■ jCHST NIXON Co. ft
iwS*2«r- ' dr
1 j Latest Foreign Netvs,
i* J at r|»r Mine's v»«iv<»" V"'
if BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
0 PROTEST
AGMN'ST the bill of requisition.
I-
S : HOUtR OF I.ORDS, f>IE MIHC. January ir.
The question was put, that this bill be
• ! committed.
e It was carried in the affirmative,
e DUskntiemt,
h Because, we conceive that in the pre.ent
f circumftapces no grant of money by parlia
ment, can alone be fuffieienTto extiicate the
country from its alarming and critical fitii
- ation.
it When the exigencies of the State are
e such, a* to demand large supplies from the
people, our duty is not confined ta the bare
~ confidcratiun of the ceceiEty of the cafe or
„■ the mode of levying .the money. We are
n not from the prefiure of cireumtlarices and
o the approach of danger, haitily to concur
'» in laying additional burthens on our fellow
'■ fubjedts, without in luring to the public a
" wife application of the money so r.aifed, and
3 without due precautions for diredling the ef
e forts of the people to their only legitimate
objeft, the benefit of the community. A
• neglecl of this moil important of all parlia
e mentary duties produce, and in our o
~ pinions, it has already produced confequeuc
n es the moil fatal to the dignity of the na
tion, the (lability of the government, and
- the interests of the pe#pls. In the uncon
- dirional compliance with the demandsofthe
executivt government again proposed as the
f remedy, we perceive the real and fatal source
j of the evil. Year after year his majesty's
0 ministers have giounded their application to
g parliament upon the urgency of the oceafi
- on, and the extrantrdiriaty exigeacies of the
State. To fatisfy their demands, to enable
them to encounter the dangers, and remove
c the difficulties in which we are involved, e
- very article of luxury or convenience have
- been taxed,the resources of the country have
' been exhausted, and fum§ unparalleled in
history, have been eatrufted to their dispos
al; yet, year after year the occasion has
been more urgent, the exigencies moreprefT
. ing, the difficulties more alarming, and the
dangers more ir-imcdiate. The fecarity of
- the nation has been shaken in the fame pro
> portion as the profperityef the country has
1 been impaired, external danger has kept
r pace with internal distress, and the exertisns
which have impoverished the people, and
r shaken our credit, have purchased nothing
: but the loss of national honor, the defection
• of allies, and the failure of every great ob
je& of the war.
. If the whole force of Great Britain and
Ireland, aided by grants, lavilhed beyond
f the example of the moil improvident timet,
; aflifted by the most powerful monarchs of
■ Europe, has proved inefficient in the hands
of ministers to secure the blessings of peace,
or even to' avert the present awful circam
. fiances of the country, it seems inconsistent
. with reason, to expeil that the painful ef
. forts of an empire, whole means ate exhauft
| ed by taxation, whose spirits are damped by
failure, and whose affedlions are in part
j- alienated by oppression, can, without a sin
gle ally, under the direftioa of the fame men
. relilt with effeil, a powerful and exafperat
, ed enemy, elated with success, strengthen
■ ed by conqued, and supported by the unit
| ed powers of Holland and of Spain. In
this situation of affairs, to perfever? in the
[ | fyllem which has produced it, to confide in
r the ministers who, with the aid of so many
. ' millions, have been unable to avert it, evinc
> cs, in our opinion, a total disregard of the
; common maxims of prudence, a wanton re
je&ion of the lefion3 of experience, and a
[ determined negledl of tfie most important of
1 ! our parliamentary duties. Under the per
-1 suasion, therefore, that the dangers with
: which we are now threatened, are the result
J of force, dire&ed to objeds at once imprac
[ ticable and foreign to the interests of this
- country j and that they arethenecefTary confe
. quences of a misapplication of the public
- money, and the natural fruits of the iuca
. pacity and profufion of those to whom it
j has been improvidently entrusted, we deem
ed it iftir duty not to fanaion any grant to
I the executive government until a pledge was
[ given to the House, by the removal°of his
• his majesty's ministers, of a complete alter
ation in his councils. We held it neither
k just to impose, nor reasonable to require any
; additional facrifices from our fellow fubjeds
until (ome profpeft was held out to the peo
[ pie of a reform of that house which had
granted and a censure of thoft ministers who
have lavished sums so enormous, without a
ny benefit resulting to the community. We
thought that while his majesty's affairs were
conduced by those who originally engaged
in this calamitous contest, and who can nei
ther carry on war or negociation with honor
advantage, or success, no grant of money
by parliament, no facrifices on the part of
the people, could afford a reasonable hope
that the bltflings of peace would be speedi
ly rettored, or permanently secured. We
imagined, that until some earnest was given
of a radical alteration of the system of ter
ror and coercion in Ireland, of the repeal of
the two bills, the one intitled "An a& for
the fafety and preservation of his majesty's
person and government against treasonable
and seditious pra&ices and attempts," and
the other intitled "An a& for the more ef
feftually preventing leditipus meetings and
afTemblies," of (Economy in public expen
diture, and diminution of the enormous pat
ronage and influence of the crown, we are
not warranted inexpefting that cheerful co
operation of the people, which being at
once the indication and result of a recipro
cal confidence between the government and
the governed, can only be restored.by the
relloration of the ancient and happy prac
tice of the cor.ftitution undisfigured by coer
cive laws—cf a parliament speaking the
lenfe of the people—and a miniflry depen
dent 011 the voi-.e of th? MtltsmttnV.
Beccufe it appeal to u» tkat ar.y attempt
to'raile the supplies within the year, in the
present exhaufhd state of the country, must
be attended with the grcate'.t difficulty and
danger. . .
Because were we to allow that the [prin
ciple of railing the supplies by contribution
in/lead of loan, was jnft, wife and expedi
ent, ret under the'prefent ministers it would
appear to us attended with the mod danger,
as the real expenses of the year have jrener
a'.ly exceeded by nearly one half their cal
culation ; and thus- any regulation for the
equal distribution of the burthen which we
adopted upon the firft calculation, might be
rendered ineffe&ual by subsequent and more
extensive demands. (
Because if the bill is i-.n ended a» a tax
upon expenditure it? retrofpeftive operation
is arbitrary and cruel in the extreme, and al
together repugnant to the uiages of our
ancestors, the fahll ofcivilized
and the common dictates of humanity and
juflice. If it is intended as a tax upon in
come, in our opinion the criterion proposed
is objectionable and iusdeqnjie •; and above
all, as income is of rarious descriptions,
sometimes arising from permanent and dispo
sable capital, sometimes from precarious or
temporary pofleflions, and sometimes from
labor, talents or industry we deem any at
ceropt to proportion the burthen to the in-
Come, in itfclf urijuft, unequal and impoli
tic. If it is intended as a tax upon pro
perty, neither in the original criterion, viz.
the a fie fled taxes of '95, r.or in the propo
sed relief, do we recognize any just princi
ple of taxation, or perceive any fair or ade
quate method suggested for the imperial dif
tributionof the burthen.
Because the relief proposed in the bill,to
those who may, by the increase of their al
fefled taxes, be liable to pay more than the
tenth of their income, requires a difalofure
of their peconiary circumstances, which is
contrary to the customs and prejudices of
Engliflimen, and repugnant to the princi
ples of the eonflitution ; and which to per
sons engaged in commerce or tradf, must be
attended with yet greater inconveniencies
than the payment of more than the 10th
of their income. Furthermore; this re
gulation ap<pears to us an indireft >. breach
of the faith so often and so sacredly pledg
ed to the stock-holder, for should the whole
of the income of any individual claiming
this relief conilft in a dividend upon stock, a
tenth of that income is immediately facrifi
crd, and the dividend, in violation of the
faith of the parliament and the nation, di
minished one tenth by the intervention of
government.
Because the operation of this bill ii not
confined to a definite period of time, but by
the mod wanton violation of justice, re
mains in force till a certain sum is produc
ed ; thus exacting from the honefl the de
ficiencies whish may have been occasioned
by accidental circumstances, by the designs
or the distress of individuals, by the favor
or the negleft of the colleftofs.
HOLLAND.
OXFORD.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
SATURDAT, DEC. gO.
THE KOYAL FAMILY.
Mr. Tierney aiked the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, whether heexpedled to receive
-vr&ntor- »o
sage refpedling the contributions of the"
royal family towards the public expendi
ture? If no such message was in contempla
tion, he should hold it his duty to move, in
the committee of way? and means, -on
Wednesday next, for the repeal of all those
clauses by which the royal family were ex
empted from paying paying to the general
contribution.
No notice was taken by the mmifter, ei
ther of this quftion, or of the intimation
by which it was followed.
-
ROME, Dec. 9.
The Pope has acknowledged the Cis Al
pine republic, and averted an expending
war.
STOCKHOLM, Nov. 24.
Great difcontent3 prevail amqng the mer
cantile people in Sweden, on account of the
total failure of the French in their engage
ments, a want of faith now so generally
known, that there remains scarcely any
commercial intercourse between France and
Sweden. ■
FRANKFORT, Dec. 30.
Cicize» Hoffman, late profefTor at Ment,
lias published a letter to the inhabitants of
that city, in which he congratulates them
that the I'rench have acknowledged them as
brothers ; and aflures them, that under the
prote&ion of the French, Mentz will be
come one of the firft commercial cities in
the world.
UPPER RHINE, Dec. 3®.
The Bayreuth Gazette states, that the
French will only lciep possession of Mentz
till the congress for the peace of the empire
shall be ended, and the sum of lixty mil
lions be paid, which France requires of the
German empire, as an indemnification for
the expences of thewar. This, however,
is not much believed.
LONDON, Jan. n.
It is said, that the executive direclory
has refufed to enter on any kind of nego
ciation with the commifljoncrs from Amer
ica, now at Paris, unless 400,000 dollars
are paid as a preliminary douceur for a the
honor of a conference. When the last ac
counts left Paris, the commifiioners had not
been admitted to any public audience, th<o*
they have now been there near two months.
January 12.
By the Waliingham Packet arrived at
Falmouth from Lisbon, the following intel
ligence has been received :
" Lord St. Vincent had sent home all the
men of war except the Ville de Paris, and
four fiig trs, the Emerald, llie Lively,
Aurora, &,c. which were at Ltflmo vyhoj <
the WaHingkara failed. 'Accounts u-rrt re
ceived at Lisbon a few days preVioii" to the
failing of the Waltingham, that Sir John
Orde, who wasthen cruizing off Cadiz with *
a squadron of line of battle (hips, had fal
len in with a fleet of merchantmen, very
richly laden,under the convoy of three Spa
«i(h line of battle (hips, bound from the
Hnvanna to Cadiz ; the rcfult was, that Sir
John had captured the three Spani(h liqe
of battle ffiips, and greatest part, if not the
whole of the fleet. The greatest credit wai>
given to the above information at Lifooti,
I inafmnch that the arrival of the Spauifh men
ot war and merchantmen were daily expeft
ed there wheo thepacket failedfrom thence.
Admiral Parker had hoi#edhis flagon board
h,s Majelly's ship Princess Royal, and had
failed with fix line of battle (hips, to cruize
off Cadiz, and to fupercede Sir fohr. Orde.
Both iquadrons would form a very strong
fleet, and Admiral Parker wa3 to have the
command, to cruize off and on Cadiz bay,
and watch the motions of the Spaniards ly
i.ig thcr*, but who durst not venture oat,
tho' ft much superior in numbers to the Bri
tish fleet. A fleet of merchant vessels had
failed from Lifton the 26th ult. undrr the
convoy «f his roajefty's (hip Irrefiftahle, of
74 guns, G. Martin, and, a (loop of war,
far England ; they conllfted of fourteen or
sixteen vessels. The emigrant hrmy was
down at Calh Kies Fort, all in readiness and
expefted to be embarked for England, in
transports waiting to receive them, having
been all marked and numbered. It was re
ported a; Lisbon that Lord St. Vincent .
had declared to the Court of Portugal, that
et their refufal of supplies of provi
vifioys and water to the Britifli fleet, he 1
would reduce the city of Lifcon to ruins.
His lord/hip was in perfed health when the
packet failed. His Majesty's Packet, King
George, eapt. Bell, had fafely arrived at
Lisbon two days previous to the failinw of
the Walfingham.
January 13.
At a veey early hour th's morning, we
received French papers to the 9th inft.
These journals are chiefly filled, as for
the most -pai t they have lately been, with
a colle&ion of official Philippics againfl the
| government of England. A proclamation
ot" the executive direftory, iffutd 011 the
6th, and of which we have inserted a trans
lation in our fubfequcnt columns, calls on
the mass of the people to contribute lo the
loan again ft England, and states the prob
ability of success in the proje&ed expedi
tion as a consequence of our immense debt.
: January, 15.
Notice was given at the Bank of England
| on Saturday that Books will be opened and
receipts given for voluntary fubfcriptioni in
aid of the Requisition which is now passed
into a law. The law direds that the bank
ihall give receipts for funis that may be paid
in, together with duplicates, if required. If
only receipts without duplicates, shall be
required, then such payments/hall be deemed
and taken to be the voluntary contribution,
but if they require a second receipt or dup
licate, such second receipt or duplicate (hall
be deemed and taken to be in advance of the
new assessment ; and which receipt (hall
upon delivery to the colleftor, be an acquit
tance of such affeftnent as for as the fame
will go ; all funis above the auual affefl
ment to be deemed and taken as the volun
tary contribution of tS person crr persons.
That the Aims to be paid into the bank in
this way over and above the amount of the
assessment of each individual may be great,
we hope that fplepdid examples will be set
from the highest places. Their Majtftifjs
and'all the court have beefi called upon in
a strong and pointed way. The people ex
peft fabrifices, and this day we trufl will
prove that there is a just feeling in the higher
circles of the burthens they have brought
upon the country.
Admiral Thompfoa and Sir Roger Cur
tis have received direftions to hold them
fclves in readiness to fail at a moment's war
ning, in consequence of information recei
-1 ved by Government of the designs of the
enemy.
Now that Parliament is adjourned, th«
loan is immediately to be fettled, Mr. Pitt
has fortunately made a competition, so that
the terms will be more advantageous than
he might otherwise expeft. According to
present report, he is to call only for 14 mil
lions.
The new measure of the dire&ory againfl
England Manufadtures and Commerce, will
be felt as severely by Lloyd's Coffee House
as by the Weavers of Lancalhire It is im '
pofiible under fueh an anathema to insure
any (hip, since an Englilh pocket handker
chief would ensure the coßfifcatiou of the
cargo.
It is a most dreadful blow to our trade;
but it is ridiculous to charge it upon the e
nemy as a'thing unpreeedented. It is our
maritime maxim returned upon us. It in v
that assertion of power which we have al
ways made when we were able ; which gave
rife to the armed neutrality in thelaft war,
and made us obnoxious to all the commerci
al powers, at the outlet of our mad career J
in this war. I
Duel—Yefttrday morning, a duel was
fought in Hyde Park, between the earl of
Lonfdale, and fir Frederick Vane, hart, in ,
which the latter was wounded. This is the
second time they have met 011 the fame quar
rel. The public will recollcft that tl.cy
fought about three months ago.
January 18.
The duke of VVirtvmberg fncceeda, by
the death of his father, to his hereditary
dominions, and to 5238 copies of the hoiy
bible, in different languages.
The r.ett income remitted to this country
frofn the king's dominions in Hanover, is
estimated at about 30,GC01. a year on a
general average But during the iirft seven
years of the present reign, his majesty did
not receive a sixpence revenue on account
of the ravages ca'jfed by the war in that
country. The Biihoprick if calculated
Wtt about 17,0-0!. a year.Mr. Pitt's taves a=cv>V (' frequ:ntK, and £■
flick so close to us, that they have been ai
compared to the erfvencnud (Tuft which
Dejanira- gave to Hercules. They so con- e<
tinually dare you in the fate, that they re- d
femblc a bad portrait affixtd in our fitting f(
room. ei
A revision of our penal laws is said to be a
under cor.fidctation, as well of those rela- it
live to usury, obje&i which ought long fincc o
to have attrafled the notice of our govern- a
*ient. a
THe miiiifters, it was yefterd*y reported d
in the city have received some private advi- 0
ees from Hamburgh, dating that, in con- a
sequence ef a strong intimation from the I
piagiflr'ates, the inhabitants were removing t
their valuable effe&s to Akonn, and to the t
territory of Pruflia," We do not guaran
tee this report; but it appears certain from c
every account, that the fate of this and the c
cities stand on the precari- f
ous " hazard of a die!" 1
Themerchantswhowereabouttolhiptheir t
goods for HamburgTi, are all at present at a j
stand. The iritcrcourfe between .Great- j
Britain and the continent, through the t
channel of the Elbe, is in faft suspended, 2
until the fate of that part of Germany shall ,
be finally decided! * 1
An Italian paper quotes the following i
observation, as.literally copied from a let- '
ter of Mirabeau to the French minidry, in <
I ;«< Do you know what will be the
eonfequence of ihe fird continental war? 1
You will take the low countries, the empe
ror will takft Bavaria; you will have the
Milanese, and he the edatcs of Venice."
The Proclamation ef the commissary of
the direftory to the people of the Pas de
Calais, contains, among some local ordin
ances, one pafTage which is to be taken in
its literal sense, and not as a rhetoricaljkuri/b
*>f the writer, seems nearly to fix the term
when the invasion of this country i» to be
attempted by thtf enemy:
" Bejore theJirJt Imves Jhall appear an the
trees, the tri colored standard," fays he
shall float on tht territory of England; and
in atehieving a general peace, we (hall at
the faille time contribute to the happiness
of a people who deserve to be free!"
hsvo been favored with London papers to the
lid January Inc'ufive, from which the follow
ing articles are fcleAed.]
LONDON, January 18.
ExtraS of a letter from citizen Joseph Buon
aparte, ambajfador from ihe French repub
lic to the court of Rome.
" tlorence, iithNivofe—Dec. 31.
" On the 6th, three persons came to me,
and informed me that a revolution was pre
paring, and that the insurgents hoped far
the support of the French government. I
replied, that the epoch of geaeral peace
did not appear to me to be that in which
my government ought to take any part in e
vents which might retard it ; and, at the
French minister, I enjoined them not to
come again to me with fueh propositions.
" " Next evening, Chevalier Azarra told
me confidentially, that he had just been with
the secretary of state, and that it appeared
probable some imprudent persons were about
to attempt a rising, which would be as un
fuccefsful, on account of the fmallnefs of
their numbers and their fbllilh conduA, SJ/
that which was undertaken some months
before.
" I learned at the Marchioness Maflimi's,
that four of the leaders of the affair were
the fpiesof the government, which had ta
ken mtafures to defeat the plan of the in
surgents.
" I was informed, the day after,'that a
patrol had been attacked by about sixty
men, and that two of the Pope's dragoons
were killed. Several of the insurgents wore
the French cockade, and left, as it were by
mistake, a bagful, which were fcattereda
bout the place of meeting.
«' I'went immediately to the secretary
of state, and told him, that, far from op
posing the arresting of the persons who had
aflumed the French cockade, I came to re
quest him to arrefl all who did not belong
to the French legation. These amounted
only to the number of eight, and I pointed
them out to him.
" The Cardinal secretary of state went
to dinner, and begged me to come to him
at fix in the evening, along with the Span
ilh minister.
" On my return home, I found general
Duphoz and adjutant-general Sherlock wait
ing for me. We conversed upon the child
ish attempt that had been made at a revolu
tion during the night before. We had fat
to table, when the porter came and
informed me, that abont ZD men had pre
' fented themselves at the gate of the palace,
erving Live the Republic I Live the Roman
Peop e !—One of them infilled upon speak
ing to me. He had the appearanee of a
wild fanatic, and said, TVe are free, and tve
come to demand the support ef France ! I re
plied to this extravagance by desiring him
and his companions to retire immediately
jfrom the jurifdi&ion of France, or other
wise that I should take strong measures a
gainst them. The military men who were
with me endeavored to convince them of
the folly ef their enterprise. Were the
government of the town, said general Sher
lock, to point a [ingle cannon against you,
what would beconie of your pretended lib
erty ?—Upon this the man withniew.
" A French artid came r.nd informed
we, that the number of the multitude with
out increased, that handfuls cf piastres were
thrown among them, and that the entry to
the i»onrt was ohftrudted. 1 drefled myfelf
'n my diplomatic rob», and went into the
csur't, accompanied by the French officers
who were then in the palace. I heard a
Jong discharge of musketry. A party of
cavalry had penetrrted intw the midst of the
French jurildidtion. A great multitude
filled the court, and the different stairs.
But soon thsre were •nly to fee iVen persons
. , t \ J, .
VyiSg. intur.idatfi fugitive*, and er.thuS- th
afes. 0 |
" A company of f.itflsera closely follow- ta
ed the cavalry. I ordered them to with
draw from the jurifdi&iou of France. They tl
fell back some steps, and the people ad»anc- ir
ed in ) voportion as they retired. But it tt
appeared that the Papal troops had only h
made this retrograde, motion in order to be f<
out of piftel Riot, and to be able to make $
a general discharge of their muskets without J
any danger to themselves. 1 delired the aid n
de-C3mp Beauhamais, and another French b
officer, to endeavor to quiet the multitude ; b
and I advanced myftlf, along with generals t
Duphoz a«d Sherlock, to invite the troops
to cease their and to return without
the French jurifdich'on. a
" Brave general Diiphoz, accustomed to t
conquer, threw himlclf among the bayonets f
of the Pope's soldiers; he prevented one t
from chaiging, iiud avoided the push of a- j
nother. H« was Grr.ply a mediator between 1
the two parties. Misled by hi 3 courage, he ]
proceeded as far as the gate Septiminiana.— 1
A soldier fired a mu&et at him, and the Con- i
tents lodged in his breast. He fell, but vofs
again, and supported himfelf on his sabre
A fecor.d shot extended him pro Urate on |
the pavement, and about fifty was dire&ed
agai*ft his inanimate body. This brave '
warrior was to have been married the nest
day to my filler in-law.
"Though protested by all the French
artists and military I could gather round|me,
I regained the palace with much difficulty,
which I found filled with,the dead, the dy
ing, and the fugitives. .
"It was now fix o'clock. Two hours
had pafled finee the mafiacreof general Du
phoz, and no member of the government
had yet appeared. The Spanish andTufcan
minillers only, liaftencd to the French pa.
lace, to (hare in the dangers to which I was
exposed.
" No official correfpondeace took place
between the Cardinal Secretary of State and
me until eleven in the evening. I thought
it my duty to leave Rome ; and at fix in the
morning of the 9th Nivofe, fourteen hours
after the murder of general Duphoz, I
quittedthis criminalcity,to go to Florence."
Joseph Buonaparte concludes his letter by
stating, that he will soon repair to Paris, to
give farther accounts of the crimes of the
court of Rome, and to consult with the
Dire&ory on the punilhment which ought
to be inflidted upon a government as cruel
as perfidious.
January 22.
We flopped the Press on Saturday, to in
form our readers ofthe arrival of the Prince
of Orange Packet from Cuxhaven, whenee
, (he failed on the nth inft.—She brought
• no intelligence from Hamburgh, the Mail
' between those two places having been de
tained, it was supposed, by the quantity of
• ice in the Elbe, which prevented it from
1 pafling.
The report in circulation on Friday, of
: the arrival of Mr* Frafer, the Britifll En
-1 voy, from Hamburgh, and of an order hav
ing been ifiued previou to his departure for
1 all the Briti/h merchants thereto follow him,
1 made us anxious topubli(h the circumstance.
I It is difficult to difcovrr what could have
t given rife to this report, unleft it be an ar
- tide in the French Journal Le Surveillant,
f which dates, that a meffengF." liad been
r ±be ©ireftory on special affairs to
s Hamhargh. If the communication of the
French Plenipotentiaries to the members of
, the Congress, and theatisfadory aflurance
? which the King of Pruflia announced to
- them, that he had received from the French
• government, be no security against an event
of such extensive injury to the Northern
a Powers of Europe, the jealousy of his
jr Prussian majesty, and the intereds of con
s tiguous dates, make it improbable that the
e Directory would attempt what they could
f hardly hope would succeed.
An Italian meflengerarrived in the Prince
of Orange.
y Three Hamburgh mails became due yes
- terday, none of which had arrived when
i this paper was put to press.
There has been some misunderstanding at
r the Bank about the interpretation of the 3tl
1 of Parliament. It was supposed that per
i sons only could fubferibe who paid down
the whole sum which I hey affixed to their
t names. Books, however, are now opened
n for fubferiptious to be paid by instalments,
- a measure more generally convenient to in
dividuals, and equally beneficial to the (late.
1 The Speaker's fubfeription of 20001. at
- the Bank was made on Saturday.
Admiral Colpoys'i liberality in fubferi
- bing xoool. to the fund for aiding the date,
t cannot be too much praised. It ought to
i be held up to admiration, and we hope it
:- will produce imitation.
■, It is supposed that all the corporations in
» the Kingdom will fallow the example of
- Hull. That corporation has liberally fub
a scribed fool.
>e Sir C. Thompson will be joined off Ply
mouth by the Robud, Mars, Matlborough
n and Terrible, of 74 guns, and St. Albans,
y of 64, which have been some days waiting
■- in the found, when this forca will confill of
t- 13 fail of the line, and fix frigates, five of
e which were likewise in the Sound. The
if Grand Fleet of 27 (hips of the line, it is
e dated, will fail, under admiral Lord Brid
•- port, about the middle of the week.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
[/rem the lajl Paris Papers.J
d MADRID, Dec. 18.
1- We are looking with much impatience for
e the conclusion of 1 general peace. Spain
o fuffers from the war more than any other
if power, because the war exposes her to ma
e ny dangers in her diflant poffeflions, and he
's cause it intercepts hertreafures from the A
a merican continent. On this account the
if exchequer is in the utmost penury 5 so that
e the government is obliged to have recourse
e to the mod barihenfome ekpedients. It
j. hasjuft negociated a third loan, hearing an
is interest of five per cent for the year, with
the aruremenf of a lottery, giving a profit ' *
of three per cent on the total of the capi
tal borrowed.
This resource will soon be exhaufled if *
the war be prolonged,because the reimburse
ment depends on the arrival of <»nr precious
metals from America, in whicl) the King V
haj always a (hare. It would be (lill worfc
for ns, if it ftjould happen, as we have been
given to underlland, that the Directory of
France, justly discontented with the conduct
nf the United States, (hould come to a
breach with them; we (hould then certainly N
be the fii ft, and perhaps the owly vi&im of f>'
the rupture.
rt
Pant, Jan. 5. The minister of foreign el
affairs gave vefttrdny a grand entertainment tl
to Buon2parte and his spouse, which lifted u
from eight o'clock in the evening till fix in c
the morning. The banquet, the mnlic, 1'
and the dances were magnificent. At mid
night five hundred ladies fat down to sup- ®
per. Buonaparte, in a plain habit stood be- 11
hind his wife, and T«lleyraiid Perigord(the *
mimfterV was bolide him. 11
The firft toast was, "To the republic," v
which was announced by difc v arges of ar- a
tillery. The next was, " The female citi
zen who bears the name mod dear to glorv."
This compliment to Madame Buonaparte, c
was received with eathufiafm* The next
was, "to the descent upon England,", this t
was also mod loudly applauded. Lais sung i
an air, the tenor of which was, that, to go £
to England, it was not necessary "-to drink 1
up the sea;" and Dugazon another, import- 1
ing " that one cup more (hould be drank as j ]
a token of victory." Buonaparte, who j <
seldom smiles, entered with uncommon gai- <
ety into these sentiments.
L'Eche tie la Rcpublique. 1
PLYMOUTH, January 20.
A Meeting of the American merchants
was held this day, for the purpose of raak-
I ing application to Government to grant a
conroy for outward bound American (hipj.
s Two ladies in Holland have fubferibed
i 30.000 pounds eaeh, towards the re-eflta
' blifhrnent of the Dutch Marine.
j It h|p been currently reported that a fig
e nal was on Wndnefday last made at the Tel
e (graph on Maker Heights, importing that
t the French fleet in Brest-Water, which
1 eonlifts of twelre fail of the line and fereral
frigates, had made a movement, apparent
ly with an intention of putting to sea; (hould
- the signal have been rightly construed, it
e is probable the intelligence muil hare been
e conveyed to the telegraph at Lijard point,
t by one of the frigates which have been crui
il sing off brest, to watch the motions of the
- French fleet; no further information, how
s ever, has yet been received on this head; in
n telligence o| the above (hips being rea3y to
fail having, some day* since, been brought
if by the 'Boadicea frigate,there is a possibility
• that they may have put to sea.
I By yesterday's Mail.
e BOSTON, March 6.
Theviolent entry of the French into Meats
ft has excited much alarm. It 7* {aid to be
»• contrary trj The new treaty,
o It is not clear that the congress at Ras
e tadt has deprived the king of England of
'f Hanover. It is merely reported, that it
e will be a fubjeft of difcuflion.
0 Our papers are late enough to conviee us,
h that the story of a French squadron being
1 at sea is untrue.
n The government of France well arrang
ed their plan for the capture of vessels with
'■ British merchandize, so as that it (hould be
IC as unjnft and cruel as pofiible. The plan
d was long fettled, and orders were sent to
the Weft-Indies, in order that on the whole
e ocean, at the fame instant, the poor honett,
unfufpefling neutral might become a prey,
f- Many condeninatioos of American vessels,
n on this plea, took place '■ the Islands, be
fore we had news of it through the torn.
II mon channel.
a _
Capt. Loringhas arrived in 90 days from
n the Cape of Gdod Hope. There had been
ir a very serious infnrreflifen of the sailors in
the British (hips there. Ad. Pringle, was
confined. Belifving the seamen might car
'■ ry kis (hipao sea, he had got a letter to the
commander of the fort, desiring him to de
lt ftroythefhip, not withstanding his being on
board, if an attempt should be made to car
l" ry her off. Red hot (hots were prepared.
But on the hearing of the quelling of the
: _° mutiny in England (of which this was a
ramification) and of the execations, subor
dination was easily restored.
In
as BALTIMORE, March 10.
'• [The following letter was received by the
editor, from Mr. William Gordon, fu
r- percargo of the (hip Charles, capt. Nick
|h erfon, of this port, which entirely con
®> tradidls Vidtor Hugue's arret.3
|g _ .
as Point—Prtre (Gued.) Feb. 9, 1798.
of Mr. Dobbin,
le Inclosed is a proclamation of the agents
is of the executive directory of the French re
d- public to the windward islands, setting
forth in the second paragraph, that the ma
jor of the navy addressed capt. Nickerfon,
of the (hip Charles, of Baltimore, myfelf
supercargo, and that we answered him in
solently, &e.
ir I solemnly declare to you, thflt he did npt
in speak to me on that day, or Ito him, nor
er for two weeks this affair happened,
a- more tlran a salute in palling—nor is there
e- one word of it true refpe&ing the king, &c.
1* It also mentions a meeting of the Americans
le to deliberate if they would hoist their colors,
»t on the day of the death of the late king of
fe France—let me tell you that there was no
It such meeting, nor was it ever talked of.
111 I remain, yonr's, &c.
h WILLIAM GORDON.
XJ)t <!sa3ettc- s
- —■ -» *— ■wi -■ r—rrr* acCO
t> aILADEL Piil A , he^r
WEDNESDAY EVENING, iUrch 14 meri
Further KrJraßt from Etiglj/2) Paftrt. C( j v {
IMPORTANT. T
In the C«uucil of Five Hundred (22d port
Nivofe, Jan. 11}, Villtr* ia;tde a report Bou
from the leltdt committee to whom the "1
melfago of the directory of the 15 th Nivofe, this
respecting veils!* laden with Epgliih mer- vtrp
chuudiie, was referred.—He said, it was 1
the interest of all the powers of Europe to heni
unite iu lupporc of the liberty of Maritime 1
commerce, which the government of Eng- Ho
land would appropriate exclulivcly teitfelf. Ha;
The reporter alio noticed the ialt Speech C
of the Preiideut of the American Congrcfs, the
in which, he observed, the fame principles t» I
were profeffed as thole of the Euglifh rnin- the
liter j and he concluded that thele two go- and
vernraents had agreed together to calumni- tifh
ate France.
The plan of the resolution proposed Iry fror
Villcrs contained three articles, which the in (
council adopted without any oppofitiou:
1. The situation of Ships and vessels, with POl
regard to their quality as neuter or enemies pen
(hall hereafter be determined by their car- (
goes. Therefore, every vessel fouud at sea, ! feb
laden, or partly laden, with the produce or in ■
i Merchandize of Englaud, or of any of its 1 N.
poffeGons, is declared a lawful prize r who- lifh
ever be the proprietors of the said produce of
or Merchandize. P rc
2. No foreign vefiel, which, in the course wa
of her voyage, may ha»e entered an Englith off
port, (hall be permitted tu enter any port eiv
of the Republic, unkfs (he is in distress, in of
which cafe, fhc (hall be obliged to lail as na
fooa as the causes of her diftrels (hall have
ceased. *hi
3. This resolution (hall be feot to the ou
council of Ancients by a messenger of state. Pr
Buonaparte, the Ambassador, has taken fa!
his feat in the Council of Ancients as De
puty from Corsica*
ENGLISH MERCHANDIZE IN FRANCE. 3c
As some of our jacobin papers fee in themea- fai
furcof desperate extortion just put in execution f n
by the French direAory, the completion of our M
' ruin, and the extinction of onr miniit'afturfi ; . ,
1 we think it our duty to diilipite such meUneho
■ ly apprehensions by the fallowing plain ftatc- th
I ment. T
The great export ef British manufactures in a- mi
nf year since the peace, excepting the last, in
was that of 179 a. it amounted to
The export of the y«*r ending the
sth January 1797, wa» - 29,103,1*0
I n, Ol
. Exceft above the export! of 1791 £-766,369 SI
| The dircS exportation of Britilh man«fa<S\-
ure» to France in 179** The 3
1 lame, in the year ending in January 1797, was g (
r 30!.—•consequently the tUcreafe was 743,1501.;
a decrease which might have been held out,
1 with some degree of rrafon, to our manufa<st
" uret »as a caufc of appreheufion. Bat we truil
the lofg of the remaining 30U will not ruin the b]
comerce of Great-Britain. a
While the climite of France (hall continue n<
the fame, the French will probably not content
C to go naked ; and until their own manufaftures .•
c fiiaU rrrrrc, we may fairly hope that they will,
notwithstanding the molt rigorous execution of
tiie law cfthe 10th or Brumaire, continue to g 1
refo:t to the only market wh ch h able to sup- re
ply them. ol
* It remains to be teen, what will be the feel
ings and conduit of n>• utral n atcons, upon „
, the meflageof the directory which has followe l
r this proceeding, and which announces me a
fures so outrageoully injurious their interests,
rights and honour—measures made up of injus
tice and folly, such as the history of the mad
-1 ness and tyranny of the worst governments in the
2 worst ages in the world cannot parallel.
1
5 Citizens Sang and Quignav, tie thief (tnjiruSiors of
q ihc prodigious machine *vl'ub is to sonify tbe Army of Eng'
lan ito our so tji, nave been arreted at Bref. Their ar*
' reji is.ettrikmted to tbtir having remonjiroted ggainjf the p
of citixen Afmge's projeti.
9 Four dtjuitUs sent from Ementhal to the canton of Berne,
- charged t$ declare that their Qovtmune: mould not take up
, arms againjl the French, were put under arrej? Forty -
Communes immediate'j dec tared tbemftlves in a fate of in
fur region t until the Deputies -were rtlcafed.
Lif (f Cjptureti from the Gjxette.
Le Vengsrsr, of II gnns ur.i 71 men, quite netu t had . v
H taken nothing ; out eight days from Off*d.
[I L*lneoneevablc of 8 guns and 55 men, fom Dunkirk,
out ten days, had taken nothing. ™
Le Cheri corvette of 16 gunt t twelve, e!ghte:n and
tn<enty-fcur pounders f trijttdJ on th: main deck, and 330 '
C men, out /ourte:„ days from Naritx, Lad taken nothing—~
funk by the Pom one, capt. Reynold*.
n V Emprunt Forcee of 1 carriage gune, 6 swivels and
15 out one day and had taken nothing.
Le Daphne corvette of $0 guns and I'O men (former- j
ly one of bis Maje/ly's Jloopr of tvar. captured in the year '
C I 795J • from Bourdcautc 16th i)cc. and taken by C
2 the Anfm tivo days afterwards on herpnjfage for Guada- f
loupe ts 'tth dispatches and 77 pajfengers. She had taken
the American Jhip A&ine, of and from Baltimore ( laden
with sugar, rum, \Sfc. bound to Hamburgh / which the
Anfon retook and sent into Plymouth.
The proprietors of efates in St. Domino*, tors in Lon -
e don % have offered 400,000/. to Government, towards the _
I. expenses incurred in that island.
The Author of the Marfeillois Hymn has presented the j
Direflwty and Councils u ltb a 4 Hymn of Vengeance *
The Cannibals are notv ftnging this dttflable blood whoop
at every Theatre, and in evtry Jircct
Alluding to the murder of the Sanfcullottes General Du
phoz, one of the Paris Journals fayt, " The band of
Crime has tol ed the lafl hour of Aome, and the Old Qapi
g til, more loaded ivith iniquity than with years, Is about,
by iti fall, to avenge hr d< th cf a Hero**
T 1° Milo, <tn paragraph, line 9, before
* u the Scheldt/' infeit opening of.
If GAZETTE MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
>t CLEARFO.
ir Brig Fly, Brice, Rotterdam "
1, Rambler, Qdlin, St. Thomas
e Schr. Hetty, Mafoo, Savannah ?
:. Sloop Perfetl, Vaneck, C. N. Mole ]!
is Sylva, Macev, Nantucket t
s, Lydia, Stubbs, do. (
if Laura, Barker, do- ! 1
10 Captain John Rodgers, matter of the ship
Frienddiip, laden with 2,360 barrels of, t
flour, the pfopeAy of Mr. John Smith of
Baltimore, the Bth Janusry on fers passage ■
to Bafletcrre, Guadeloupe wi:> taiin ami
carried into Point-Pitrc by a French pi>
vkikt. Capt. Rodders concludes a lengthy
account ot the bafeand tyra.mical treatment
he received, With the following- very novel
and extraordinary reafua for coudtmriingA
ruericsu properly —
" N. B. They made a plea of condem
ning the vtflel m accqunf of the owners ro
ceiviag Porcupine's Gaxctte.".
The fliip Alexander, of tl>!# •
port, has arrived at St. l'artholi>tbc ws, from
Ucurdcuux.
Tne brig Diana, capt. Kirkbrlde, oS
this port, lis* arrived at Leghorn from Li«
vtrpojl.
The.barque Adrians, Captain Lee, from
hence has arrived at London.
The ship Clothier, Gardner, is arrived at
Hoylake, and the brig Altona, Neth, sft
Hamburgh.
Capt- Shaw, fvort Surin'irt, left there
the ship George, Rice, of and fur this port
ts fail in three weeks—at the mouth of
the river was boarded by 3 Britiih cruisers,
and on the passage by a Ffeneh and Bri
ti(h privateer and treated civilly by all.-
Feb. 18 fpokc the brig Newton, Rilfr*
from hence to St. Croix, out 14 dayi, then
in fight of Angudla, all well.
The schooner Elizabeth, one of the
Port-au-Prince fleet, is 101 lcn pap; Henlo
pen ; cargo fared, with damage.
Capt. (haw from Jacqmell, left there the
fchr. Alciape, Rice, of this port, to fail
in 3 weeks—fc!'.ooai r Pegnfe, Folter, for
! N. York, in 3 days, and 1J others {as pub
lifted last week)—the schooner Citizen
of Baltimore sent in, had been liberated and
proceeded to Petit Goave—»ff Tiberoon
was boarded from two Brivilheruifers, end
off the Bahamas by two ditto, and treated
civilly by al l ; 4 days since, of the Capet
of Virginia, spoke a brig fro to the Havan
> na bound to this port..
• The {loop Sally and Jane, Small, from
the Havanna was boarded the after coming
: out by the privateer brig Lark, of New
, Providence, and after examination wifted
i fate Home.
Capt. Lee, in the Mercury, arrived at
Baltimore from Rotterdam.
Feb. 5, in lat. 22, 30, N. and long 36,
. 30, weft, fell in with a fleet of feventeeu
- fail, at fix A. M. was boarded by a boat
1 from one of them ;it was an armed (hip
r called the Union, and belonging to Britlol
' last fiom Cork,and bound to St. Vincent's
they all ftiledfrom Cork the loth of Janua
ry, under convoy, with about 150 fail
- more, but got dispersed the 17th of January
> in a rery heavy gale of wind.
Baltimore, March 10.
1 ARRIVED.
0 Ship Charles, Nickerfon, W. Indies
_ Sloop Charles, Miller, do.
9 Ship Felicity, Smith, Amterdam
i* Mary, Ny«, Rotterdam
e Brig Mercury, Lee, do.
5 Schr. Treaty, Barns, W. Indies
• —1
BOSTON, March. 1.
H Burt, the" Wild Liftman" is employed
e by Greenleafin writing fed it ion Callander
a Scotch vagrant has written a libel on Ge
e neral Waftinglon.— It seems then, our revo»
J 1 tion has not secured us from the imports-
| S tion of Foreign Convi&s, who abuse our
Government, traduce our worthies, and
0 grow great men-*. It is not then without
- reason that the facetious Peter Pindar fay»
of this country—
I* Where evefy fcoun irtl convict if & Kino.
■ gawi' 1 1 ■""»"'i!iLH!i"Sga-L«
NEW-THEATRE.
r- THIS EVENING, March 14,
Will be preferitsd, the Comedy of
The COUNTRY GIRL.
With the Comic Opera of
, f The PRIZE j
r-': Or, 2, 5, 3, 8.
r * '
l ' Ran away from the lubferiber,
c on the i/,tli inft. two indented Irifn Servant Men :
' Thomas M'Guire, about lj years of age, and 5
1 feet 2 inches high, robxfl, (lout, and well made,
ihort black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
hi* templet; he 19 a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
I'e.-vice JefiVv Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder difpofitior. and moreflen
t der make, Ihort brown hair ; their working appa
' rel was blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen (him, grey
o yarn stockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfer*,
anH ruflttt leather fhnes; they have other eloathing
~ which a.together give* them the appearance of sea
,4 faring men, 1 »t have been brought up to tha'farm
injjbtifinefs ; 110 doubt will haveforged pafle* and
r _ change their names and apparel as convenient, and
lr have taken the post road to Philapelphia, I pnr
j chafed them the last fall of capt. Rollins, in Baltjp
more. 1 will give Fifty EMlars for securing thera
n to that 1 get them, and will pay all reafonablo
, tn charges if brought home, er if feparafed, Thirty
. Uallars forTfcomas. and Twenty for ItfFrr.
ARTHUR BRYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
it march 14. jaw^w
FOR SALE,
ft By Wharton & lewis,
tf No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
u- 4th proof Jamaica Rum, "J entitled to
of Id *nd »d proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
ut. Juniper B-rriei, Ac. &».
Ffb. 9. eodif
r« FOR SALE,
400 barrels BEEF.
Enquire of
r. George Ptnnoek, or
G 'ul. Hill IVelh.
march 8. eotf
no r 1 c t. '
m a Certificate to HaNMau Shel.
as * » it, of Oxtrd Cottage, in ihe County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinlter, or her afligns,
. for two thoufan4 five hundred and fisty-two dol
e lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
et the United States, was loft in the ikip Feirgy,
| Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
I ir the year 1796. The iulfcriber, the fjid Han.
• nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
K the United States, tor a renewal of the said Cer
ct I tificate.
of, HANNAH SHELLY.
ge I F»b. 33- nw&w.
1TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN porfuancc ef the AS. ef paffcd on th« sixth day of July one thoufnM seven hundredand
r.ir.ety-feten, e-titled "An A A laying duties or Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , ana .
A& pitted 011 the fifteenth day of Dec tin her, enc thousand seven hundred-arid nincty-feven, enti. lei
•• An Ait so poftpmie fer a liniicrd time tbe eomminceiacnt of the duties imposed.by the Aa enti
tlrd " As Ait U)ing Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from sua after t e
tirll day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collcc
t«d throughout tbe United Statat.
For every fltin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon which (hill be
written or printed any or either of the inllruments or writings-following —tuwjt :
* Dls Cts. I Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - S
Any Licence to przflice,or Certificate of th» admiflion,enrolment ar registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Profler, in any Court ot the
United States, - - - - . c *°
Provided, that a Certificate In any one of tic Courts of the United States
for ene of the said Officei, (hat! so far as relates to the payment of the
dnty aferefaid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courts ef the United
States, for etch and every'of the said offices.
Aay Grant or Letters Patent, under tbe seal or authority ef the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification er certified copy of »ny such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted far military services) *
Any Charter-Party, Bott< mry, or Refpondentia Bond, • I
Any Receipt ®r difiharge for or on acconntof any Legacy left by any Will or e- ,
ther teflamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a perforal eftatc di
vided by force 01 any ftatnte of distributions, other than to the Wife. Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount wbcreotfhall be
the value of Fifty Dollars, and lhail not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - "n ,
When the»amount thereof stall exceed the. value of One Hundred Dollars and
lhail not exceed five hundred dollars, - . if
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inflrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one diftrifl to another in the United States, _ *5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall net exceed five hundred dollars, - 5*
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pas» the seal of any
Court, other than such as it-may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifli for the use of the United States or some particular Rate, - 50
Any Pond, bill single er penal, foreign or inland bill of ex< hange, promiflbry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for tbeir
vfe refpe<Jlively,, - »
Ifabflvr twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, if
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - 7J
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeA to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding ore thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, .... j 0
Any Netes iflued by the banks now established, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, ether than the no'ee of such of the said Banks
as shall agree t< an annual compofitian, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders reipeiflively, according to
the following ftalr. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollar.', for each dollar, - ®
On ill notes above fifty dollars, ayid not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
C n all notes above one' hundred dollart and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... 1
On all notes above five hnndred dollars, - 1
Aay Pi oteft or other Notarial i&, - - • ' *5
Any Letfci of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to ebtain or fell War
rants fur Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - - aj
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollar#, - - - I
( I-or five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
Far more than two thoyjand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for coeds or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diflriA to another diftriijl of the United States, not being in the
fame State, 1 . . . . , a
If from tbe United States to any foreign port or place, - ij
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effects, made in any
aal'e required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proceft by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a share in the Bank ef
the United Statrs, or cf any State or other Bank,
It above twenty dollars and Rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
Tf above one hundred dollars, - - -
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforcf aid will leeolleiSed and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpc&ors aud other Officers
of lufpe&ion, in the several DiiiriAf, Surveys and Eivifinns of the United States, and by fuck other
jverftiii a< (hall from te time be fjecially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifors of Diftridts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the fsveral Diftrifls will, prior to the firfl day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be praiSicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels ef Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with :iny of the rates of duties before enumerated, 00 payment ef the said duties ; Or
flamped vellum, parchment and paper i>.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed fy law, 1 y application to any Superviior, liifpt&or, Officer of Infpeition,
or other p«ifoa appointed fo*the dillritulion of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Didrids
GIVEN under my Hand, aI Philadelphia
the day and year abovemeui'fned,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary ef the Trtafury.
NOTICE,
ALL prrfons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam FleewtOOß, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant,\]e
ceafed, are reqtiefled to exhibit their accounts,
properjy atteftcd ; and those who indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, } ,
No. 15, So. Third-Arett. j Mm ""J lr r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Bcot-flcres of Messrs. Dob
son, Cav*pcell, Younc and Okmhod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting cr Bilious
Fevers.
4. 7*o tl bti6 it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op : nions and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDtX, exhib
iting intttefling fails atid iefieili»ns relative to
the Sync;lmi IBcroiitt, or Veliow Fever, which
has otcafioned so much difheft and mortality,
at different periods, in fcvcral of the seaport
towns of the I'nitedStates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of PhyGcians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
cisty. Feb. I—"3m§
For faje or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SrrUATE on the trorth-eaft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftrects, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot ti fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet atid an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two fnull two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient irrcs, vtharf, Se. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry an J Saflifras
Streets containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, the» widening to the I
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses I
have the convenience of a publ-c alley adjoin
ing an the north fide, and area very defirabjefit
uatioa for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage cf goods.
This property will be fo!d cn very reasonable
terms for cilh. For furih»r information
to the printer.
July 3«. miwtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing 10 contra# hii bufi.
ness, offers this Eilatc for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill,with two pair of Hones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for t'be purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou 1 two thoufaod acres
of Land, one"h»lfof which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
Paflure. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
fupenor to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world; for not one of fixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of she 84 were bored
int<»3i pounders, have farlrd on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaflure, aad a placeol arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, Ind only 30 miles from several land «
lugs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water itTuing
from » large natural pond, very near the Furnaee,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. Thepurchafer can beaccommodat
ed with all the Hock and utensils, and have pofleffion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean lime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. kc. For
terms, apply 10 Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia-, David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentativcs
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, Btvid Waterman, «n
thepremjfes, or tothepropiietorin New-York
WILLIAM NEILSON.
c ' '• 3 awtf
NOTICE.
A Manufaßary of yellow and delft ware,
Such as Fever was in this Country before, has been
been lately erefled « Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudson's River, ila e of New.
> ork, where any article of various forn ar.d shapes
may be exteuted, as well as earibern floves upon a
n:w conflruchon, that saves three fourths of ibe fuel
commonly used in call iron floves or open chymnies;
they arebcfidesvcry wholeloine and ornamental. bv
applying to * '
J. MOUCHET,
tinted a flullful hand to atteod to the bakin. and
glaring pa,, of the said ware. Generous , p[ 4i nt .
rncnts wiH be given. Apply asab ve. or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street
* b - '!>• eodaw
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSI!, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
renr Will be given; to be taken for a year, or on ■
morcTor3, longer term, fjiquirecf th« Piinttr.
UvT. 17. -1
' —i,, ectf
For' Sjl.;,
NOV.' lying at
For terms apply to _ . r. ;,/
Gtirr.ey &
march 13 - '
For Boston,
, The Sh ip
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majlcr.
To fail in a few days.
Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
or paffags, apply to the Captain. or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
5, South Wutcr-ftraft.
, - (W
march f2. £
" FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, is coppered, sheathed and bolted, 3 yws
old, fails remarkably well, carries 15 « bar_
rels—now lying at South-ftrset wharf, ready to
bad PETER BLIGHT.
march B. S lw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHI?
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehart, Majler,
Having great par. of her cargo en*
gag«d.—For freight apply to
JeJfe 6' Robert Wain.
Fcbanary 16
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE
yJutjmrfcgX Will carry about noo barrels, and
is ready tetake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers £s° Co.
No. Is I, .South Stcond-Ureet.
Who have for iale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win#.
November 7. dtf
To be Soli,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat
two flory brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, &c. fituatc on the Irish trail lane, in
the townihip of Moyamcofing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Oaaette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste aad
elegance Hand unrivalled.
N. B. If tbe above place is not fold before the
loth inft. it will then be rented, for the Summer
feafofi only. § march j.
Wanted,
An aflive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
add do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and lio, other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer. .
Fsbruary 7 $
Frefli Teas.
"Jlift Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale t 6y
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Conpting House, No. 54, Chcfnut-ftreet,
iTf 1 _
SAM. E. HOWELL,
. At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afTorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and SattHis, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteflring Umbrellas,
whale-bone {licks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief",
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
march 8. §
lobe Let on the Shares,
A valuable Farm ready ftockjed,
„ WITHIN miles from Philadelphia, on the
weft fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike.
It is expe&ed the tenant will find suitable per
sons to take care of a dairy and attend market,
with all other neeefTary labeur.
AltO, WANTED,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, unlcfs they can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 39 Market-street.
. y&cfcj- . §3\v
Notice is hereby, given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the S-übfcri
ber. No. JOO4, and dat*d July 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 §6w
TO LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three florirs high, and in an excellent stand for
b»fiatf>. Apply to
Thomas £3* JoJhua FiJher,
march § No. 5, Dock-lireet.
Landing this day,
From on board tha schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
SJ" | Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Son.
ne-vtntber 9. A
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Mestday, the aoth
inft- 1 ickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, t Wm. BLACKBURN's Lott'iry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
I ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept ior render
ing and examining in these, the C-ity of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of theitates of the
Union.
r • B - The bifinefs of a Broker, hibuylngand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities
difcoaatmg Bills and Notes of Hand, fait of
Lands, Houses, & e ,&c. will be duly attended to,
y M , WM. 2LACK-BURN.
riOv?mberis« j i
Virginia Lands.
On TucfJay the 20th inft. will be fold for
Cafli, by Fublic Auflion, at the Mer
chant's CoSee-Hopfc, at 7 o'clock in
the evening,
THE following bodies of Land in the State
of Virginia, viz.
13,600 Acres situate onftie waters of Big
Steer Creek.
26,998 Acres on the waters of the Little Ken
harva and the weft fork of the Monongabela.
52,450 Aere» on the waters of Burhannon river.
Particular drfcriptionsof the Lands, and an
examination of the titles may be had by apply
iag to
Footman Es* Co. Au&ioneers.
March ii. dtiom
Will be lold on Wednesday the
alft of March, a' 7 o'clock in the evening, at
tho Merchants' Coffee House, for c:ifh,
AGREF.ABL* to the last will and testament of
William Heyfham, deceased, and piSfsflion
given immediately, $ valuable property in Arth
(lrcct, between Third and Feurth ftrects, confiding
of the House No. 107, with the Lot on which it
(lands, a Stable and other improvements. The
house is »o feet front and comaiiis ten good apart
ments. The lot is of fke fame brnadih as the house,
and 109 feet drep, with a well of water, and a
very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps in
compleat Repair. The Cable {lands oa the re-r at
the lot, and will accommodate four horses apd a
carriage. This property enjoys a perpetual privi
lege cf a l 6 feet Cf art and an alley 8 feet wide, ex
tending to Cherry street. Its central position, and
. the advantages it pofitffes with refpeift to free ven
tilation, renders it well worthy the attention of
any person wifiling to possess an eligible property
in Philadelphia.
Robert Hey/ham, or 1 Afting
Francis Bowes Say re, $ Executors.
CONNELLY £sf Co. Aua'rs.
N. B. The house will be open two days previ-
the fale.for the infpeiMon of thoie who wish
to purchafo. march 7 —Jtirft
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM rOHT-AUFIIKCB,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICMRS,
no hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrel's do.
ico bags do
no hogiheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogfticads of Cocoa
WILLINGfS £* FRANGIS.
Penn-ftreet.
march I J. §
Landing from on board the {hip
Tennclfee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SALE by the Suusckißers,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
4CO do. Plat ll las
100 do Cfeas
Si do. do. alaM or lair
100 do. Dowlas
10 do. red ftxiped Arabias
»o 00. blue Guingai
100 doien bordered Handkerchiefs
Erie J9" Lev/is Bolhnann,
l»3, South Third-flrset.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A cafe of printed Muflict and Calieoes
march 1 a. {Bt
Hibernian Society.
A Special meeting of the .Hibernian SocUty
for the Relief of Emigrants frqm Ireland,
will be held at Mr. M'Shane's, Third-street, on
Friday next, the 16th iuft. at 7 o'clock in the e
vening. .
The Anniversary Meeting of the Society, will
be held at the fame place oa Saturday the 17th inft.
at one o'clock r. m. -
Dinner, will be on tfcc table at half after three.
Those who intend to dine with the Society, arc
rrquelli .liMHillilHi.il ...... »» T M"ili'iie. on
or before Friday next.
MATTHEW CAREY, Secretary.
march 11. dct
. i , i \
The Creditors of the late Mr.
John Gould
Are requeued to meet at the house of Wil
liam Smith, Walnut near Front street, on Thurs
day the t6th inft at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March la. 4t
The Commiffiontrs
FOR carrying into effed th« TWENTY-FIR-ST
Article of the Treaty of Friendfliip, Limits, and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majefly and the
United Statisof America, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned—That in ureter
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fuflained by the citizens of the United States, in
consequence of their VcfTeli nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Suhjafhs of His Catholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and France,
that they are ready to receive (at tlicir Office; be
tween thehours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by the faii
Article, during eight een months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as come btfore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
queflion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
tea teftirr.ony, authenticated in such manner at
they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commijtv.iers,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commiflentri Office, No. 109, Mulberry-
Jtrect, May IJit, 1797.
Feb. it, '9B—Sim
*. * Theft Printers in the fevered States rvko publijb
ed the above advertiferr.ent ijjl Spring, are refuejled to
re'publijb it one month, andfend their accounts to J*. L.
To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, eapt.
Jotiesf from Bordeaux,
Claret of iuperior quality, viz.
MEDOC "> Of the vintages of ,1790 and 1791,
LATOUR j in cases
■ALSO, >
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
?0R SAL F sr
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
march 71 § .
A Wet Nurse wanted,
A healthy Wehian, who can be well recommen
ded. Apply at this Office.
march 11. §
To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSErrogether with the Lot
thereto belonging, in the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three rooms
below, and three chambers in the upper story.
The kitchen adjoining is a si attie buil ing. The
Lot has a front of 71 feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
length cf the Lot is about 450 feet—The hoofe
commands a very pleasant profpcs of the river,
and of Ihe Borough of Briitol, on the Pennsyl
vania (bote. Immediate poflefiion may be had.
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
Stms, next door below the City Tavern in Pin*.
ladtlpltia, or the fttbfcnber in Burlington.
n . THOMSON NEALE.
EurLLigrcu, marsh 1. "toiliw
Custom House,
Dilrift if Pennsylvania, March 6tL, 179;,
The merchants of Philadelphia,
■who may hare any account or ksowlei'ge ef
the capture or detention of any ship or vessel, ew»
go, cr other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States, residing within this dillrick, by or
under the authority of foreign nations since the
firft day of O&obcr, 1791, are particularly requef.
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient; fpecifyitsg the name of the vessel,
the captain's name, the number of tons, the elti.
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the esti
mated value of her cargo, or ®ther property, whi
ther carried, and. by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with such observation# >■
v may be thought necessary upon the circune(lances
of each cafe, in order that statements thereof may
be tr.infmitted to the Secrttaiy of thcTreafury,
who is required to lay the fame before the Senate
afid House of Representatives of the United States,
march 7. s)Ot
FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. ax, Pcnn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges y
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cunftjling of n
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahi Guzzey do.
Humhumt Charconna Doret
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmols
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagcnges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mkloiu d«.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Sjflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa KomaW
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romata Perfiatts of various col.
Meek Pulicats
*OO tons SUGAR -
90,0001b. PEPPER. ,
Willing.r <sf Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodioys Acre the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alio—A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs. ofele*
gant patterns and bell colours.
February 8. <jtf
Landing
Frem en hoard the Snow Maria, from C»ptn.
hag en,
A few Tons Ruflia Clean Hemp
300 pieces Ravens Duck
250 pieces Ruflia Sheeting
soo bolts Ruflia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY W Co.
/f be have en Hand,
if! and ad proof Bourdcaux Braudjr
4th proof Spanilh ditto
New-England Rum
Particular \ Ma(leirl WinflnPipcJ
London Market > aßd Ct& *'
Old Claret in Cases
»4 hhds. Coffee jult arrived
Best Bcflon Beef in barrel*
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A ftnall.invoice of Rhode-lfland Cbeefe
Spcrmac'rti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, 2,3, Boston Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass Wars.-
March J. diw
FOR SALE, '
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
NEXT door but one to tift corner of Fifth-ftreet*
occupied fcy the futfcri'ier. Its eligible fitaation
is welt known—The rooms arc fpaciouj and con-
I f nifln I TTI II —Jt has
a double IJitchen, aa d excellent Cellars, with an
Ice House and rain water Cistern, and thi.re is sr
Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms apply to <*
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
march 1. §iw
'"T'HE term of Co-partnerlhip between the sub-
X fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent Wii4 not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Millet,
Jun. to whom all those indebted,to the partnerfcip,
are earnestly requeued t® make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER:
February 19 §tf
L AND fNG,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOJI SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER.)
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 d®. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
yohn Miller, Jun.
march 3
~ FOR SALE, by
-John Miller, jun.
{ No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH AR»
Gurrahs Mamaodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda CoHan
Guzzies F.raertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Rotnall Handkerckiefi
Amongst them are a great proportion of the m* -
nufadlurcs of Pataa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February T9
Alex. J. Miller & 'James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm o '
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and
the y have opened a Wholefile Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frept S/reet, Philadelphia; wkcj
they now have, and intend kc«epinj a
foitnicnt of India German, Irijh, French and fa
fi/b Manufa&uresfor sale, on advantageous tef
for cafti or a fliort creuit. ,
February 19 _ „ jL, [
ROSS fcf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE* j
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, aS*> |
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Ee*gal j
300 calks RICE, and
A jSarcel of ship b»ilding RED CEDAR.
Oct. 17. ft,
Hyion and Young Hyson Tea-
A few cheTrsof excellent quality, for fa!e» w ( f
ner of oecoad Pine ftreer*. D?«*