«* & States, AND P Jj nladelphia Daily
Number 1751. J
For Charleftcvn,
TUB B*«S
W. R. Vswgha*, matter; .
A Pins (taanch, faft failing vcffel, with good
accommodations for pafftngers; to fail in 6
day?. For Freight or PalTjg», app'y to the Cap
tain on board, at Morris's wharf, just above the
Drawbridge, or to
Peter Kuhn.
April 18. §s*
Fcr Boston, T
THE FAST SAILING BMC w
W iir tan 011 • uefday next. For Freight apply
to the maftcr on board, at Chefnut street wharf.
April 18. _ *s*
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut ftrcet Wharf,
14? calks of nails afforicd
20 biles at fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8 2
5.3 calks y< J ll-'» ochre
i j tierces bottked porter, 6t0,14 doj each
London particular ) Ma( t e ; ra Wines
kilia market i
Teneriffe do. in and pipes
Old Port i'o. in hhds.
Empty Chret bottles
6 cilvs of Gingh*im, D miti's, Mufiinets &c. _
afioried for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and to coils of cordage j p
Writing fiates, ii.k (lands and presses
ao puncheons J:im-ica rum
I bale feaoiing twine
t6o bundles flveat-jng paper
THE BRIO
AMAZON,\
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
apri! 7 tuth&f.tf
~ FOR SALE.
107 do"b^wn} Havannah Sugar -
200 Hides ' p
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing*ana Fran
ces- wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Willr
iam Williams, mailer.
faid BrigforTale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu HoUingfworlb £3* Co.
march 30. 1 §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler, 1
iagfeCHaving great partof her cargo en
gag«d.—For freight apply to ,
JeJfe & Robert Wain•
Fcbrmry 1(1
For Sale or Charter,
SSk>j GOODHOPE
ifol; vjvA Will carry about 1100 barrels, and
aeargo. Forterms
apply to
Pragers is? Co.
No. if I, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar ]
and Kum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wins. ,
November 7.1 dtf 1
Munchefter Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, fe
deral trunks, suitable for the present aud ap
proaching fnafon, which will be fold very
low for calh or on a (hort credit, via.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy Waiftcoating mMarf.illcs, Sea.
Cotton and (ilk and cotton Hofh-t y, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (Poglift*) Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfa. shoe binding, &t.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflinets, and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs entitled to
drawback, and very suitable for the Weft-Indies.
Appiy No. 3S South Wattr and corner of Chef
nut street. " 4 mo. la—§iw
PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogflieans and quarter calks,
OF A SU P2RIOR QUALITY,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P. P.Schmidt,
mailer, from Oporto,
ALSO, ON KJND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Queens* Ware in crates
blankets in bales
Guns aflorted in cases, Cutlasses, Swords, &c.
For Sale by
THOMAS & JOHN KRTLAND,
Walnut street wharf,
april IT. ___ Ict
•' , To be Let,
' \nd pofTelTion given 0* the ill of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
11 set front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and stables.at present in the tenure of Msjor Jack
jon. Enqaire at I&7 South Third street.
amil 2- -
Escapes.
BROKE thePrifoftof Cumberland county, in
New-Jcrfey, and made their escape, be. ween
1 and 1 o'clock, this morain.,, two Men, who
were conv.fled of dealing—one of thrm calls him
felf lanws Ltgg. tlie other Edward HamUleton
LeiKis a grcy-heaJed Man. about ioyears old, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head ; Hambleton is about «6 years old, J
feet 9 or 10 inthes high, black hair. Left the
prifnn in company with the above defenbed
thieves, a small man, who calls himfelf Matthew
Morrifon, about 14 y«ars old, 5 feet 6 incheshigh,
light hair, feir complexion, Onilcs when talking, is
a whecl-wright by trade Whoever will secure
the tbicv sin any Gaol in New-l«rf«y or Peimfyl
vanta, (ball Iwentwled to receive Ten Uoilnrs tor
4he oM * >e, »ilteen for the young one, audTwen
tv for Matthew Morrifon
* GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Brid„" to-11, inarch ij. mtftf jw
VV anted,
An »flive, cleanly, ipduftrious woman to cook
»*d do the bufincfe of the kitchen. Such a one
be allowedg'»od »«p«. and no other need ap
piy—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 15
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 20, 1798.
\ The Subscribers, . i
Are landing at Willing'* wharf, from onboard
of the ship Elizabeth, Captain Pealloe, from Ba
tavia, /
400,000 lbs. of bed Java Coffee,
V)Z Canisters of Sugar
A few tons of Sapan weed
FOR SALE J
Philips, Cramond Co'
april 16 imt j ll
BRANDT. JU
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FRf»M CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at' Smith's (lre »t P
wharf. cb.
:WriChoke Brandy ~
Provence white Wine, in pipes to
Hwzlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, See. on
For Sale by ,
Peter Blight. ex
WHO AUO OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
120 hhds. Jamaica Sugar u ,
50 do. do. Rum di
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. caflcs 7t
Madeira, London particular-, in pipes, very w
superior th
april 18. dlw eotl7M rt
NOW LANDING,
From on board the fchr. Charlotte from Boston,
30 chdts Bohea
30 do. Hyson > TEAS m
36 do. Souchong J (J j
And from on board the schooner Favourite from
Kii-hmond (Vir.) ai
648 W>te. fu per fine ) F I OUR '«
66 do. line )
And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale on reafrmtible terms, liv -
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166, South Front street. (
april 3a a-iw
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the brig Emerprize, capt. Lang
doo, from Jamaica.
60hogftveadsof good SUGAR, and Entitled to
60,000 wt. of prime green COFFEE 3 drawback.
And For Sale by 4
WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No 115, South Front street. '
Who have I'dewife for sale,
A quantity of 4th p 0»f Jamaica Rum q
Molaffcs, and a
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil t
apfil 14. eoxot
FRESH TEAS,
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he r
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No 75 North Third f
street, where he will be happy to execute their i
Orders for fine-flavoured •
IMPEKIAL, HYSON, ") <
YOUNG HYsON, ( T n. s 1
MYSON-SKIN, C <
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate terms.
Coffee. Chocolate and Loaf Sugar,
april 13. m&ftf
Ngtice k hereby Given,
THAT application has bee_n made at the Bank of
the United State*, so* renewal oftlie sol- '
lowing five Certificates of? Bank Stack, Loll by the
capture of the BritiQi Packet, Cowntek »f Lticcf- l
ter—vlz. 1
N0.3 7o ft,containing 5 shares") lflued to Henry Ca- ]
3703 '5 do y zenove Nephew &Co
lyj, I do. iflued to Edwwds
and Co
3188 5 do. Issued (in lieu of
6509 (0-6513) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington.
2928 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and TnglM.
All persons Concerned are therefore called upon
, to (hew cause why new Certificates should not be
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 eo6w
t Imported in the ship America,
3 AND Foa SAtr, BY
G. G. SCHULTHESS,
At Messrs. Jos. Anthony iff Co's. Store,
30 bags heavy black Pepper
BookMuQm 1-4 and 1-1 yard wide
Check Hbkfs. romal Hbkfs.
Blue Percale* and blue Socrotien
One bale blae Cloth 24 puaj.
"■ Vitepalcon Hhkfs. 18 nd »6 punj.
One bale Betilhas—alfo,
c Four bbls. Sago
* Eight logs Ebony
A f«w boards Statin wood
april 11 eo^t
A Great Bargain.
FOR SALE Off POTOMAC,
In the State of Virginia, and county of Northum
berland,
AS beautiful a Seat as any on the River, con
taining between seven and eight hundred a
, cres of Land, which commands a most delightful
' profpe<sl of Coan River, Potomac and the Bay
about a third part of which is low grounds, sur
rounded with Fife, Oyflers, and Wild' Fowl, with
a good harbor, and as convenient for trade and in
formation as any on the lower part of the river,
and liesfo compad, that about two miles of fenc
ing w»uld inclose the whole from river to river,
in The Hon. Walter Jones Esq. now in Congress,
» lives within a few miles of the place,—who will
10 do me the favor to describe it, and make my terms
a- known to any gentleman inclining to purchase.
HUDSON MUSE.
Virginia, Urbanna, march 13. a 11—co3t
* Canal Lottery —No. 11.
cd
w XTTILL commence drawing Monday, theaoth
h, W in ft. Tickets for Sale in thh Lottery, ac
is Severn Dollars, at WM. BLACKBURN s Lottery
re and Brokers (Hfice, No. 64, .South Second-llreet—
fl- J ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
or DMirs, where check books are kept lor regiiler
-1- ing and examining in these, the City ©f Wafliing
ton, No. ll.and Patteifon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of tlx Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the fctate» of the
Union.
N. B. The bmfinefoof a Biosti, rabuyiogand
ok felling all kind* of Public Stock and Jiecoritie*,
ne difcoxnting Bills ami Notes of Hand, lale of
ip- Lands, Houiei, &e. &c. wulbe duly attended to,
Uy WM. UUACiIBURN.
November 15. §
By John Fen no, N O, ii 9 Cbejnut Street.
To be Sold by Auftion, at the Cof
fee-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the Ift May r
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the -
Culiom-Houfe, payable to William Love, I
chair maker, 150, North Front street, for aj* a
dollars, dated the 30th June 1797, due the id of Jt
Aug- but nejlecled to lie prefent«d or protested "
till the l8;h August by the Bank of Pennfylva- »
nia, for which the Bmk will become liaVile, if a __
jury independent of Banks can bt fousd.
April 13. * f > t - ,
10 The public. 1
IT appearseeviden t that the purport of Mr. William
Priejlmans adverting my Note for sale at the Mer»
chants r Coffee Ixatfe, on the firfl of M.iy next, is clone
merely for the purpose of injuria* my ebarafter, —it re-
mains only for r*e to convince the ivorld t that my intentions
to dif charge the famH } art truly honorable and juji. A*
J bout ten days afier issuing said. note to-Mr. Love, he called
on me to know if I could discount it ; lowered I ivould
do it the Saturday follow w —He not calling on me, as I
expefled, / called at his bcufe for the pxrpofe; it. hen be
informed me that itrvas in the poffeffun <f Mr. lVngner,
in SecondJlreet, on ivbom I called for the purpose of tak-
ing it up, previous to leaving the city during the fever, —
•who told me he knew nothing of the note ; I never learnt
tvhere it loas until my return to the city, rvben a< ferics of
unparalleled misfortunes had rendered me incapable of
difeharging my jufl debts : I called on Mr Prieflman, at
ivcll as my other creditors, and offered to pay them by an
order for returning a portion of my yearly J.alary, until
they iwere paid, convincing them that tbir 'was my only
refcurce, and produced prot'jled paper ("which ivas, ivben
taken, deemed good) to thrice the amount of my debts ,
ivhich ivas abandoned by Mr. Priflman only, to the un-
feeling attack on my char after J>y publishing my noteforfale.
Should any gentleman incline purcbafing my note, he
may refi assured ojC my honefl determination to the discharge
thereof, by the set uff as Iproptfe here ; and very pro
bably in a fbort time, should / receive remittances •which
are daily expefted from abroad, they will enable me amply
to discharge all tbe debts due by
MICHAEL KRAFFT.
April 17. *3* :
S ALI r El R E.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre, '
For Sale by the Subscribers. .
James C. iff Samuel IV. Fi/her,
No. 13, Arch Street J
march 3 1 4tajvtf
Joseph Ricardo, (
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the beneSt of hi" Creditors, ts J ames
C. Filher, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wilson. '
All persons who have demands are re
cjuefted to furnilh their accounts without delay— ,
and thofo indebted to make immediate payment to |
the-Subscribers, snfhng Afifignecs.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
NOTICE.
THREE Certificatesof Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the fallowing
cfefcription, viz—N«. 1Q033, 10034, andioc3J,
for 5000 dollarseach, dated BthMay, 179^7, and
(landing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, injhe name of Benjamin Waddington,
as Lanover Houfe,near ivbergavcnney in England,
Esq. have been lo(l by the capture of the ship Bac
chus, from henct: to '.ondon, in June lad.—This,
therefore Rotifies those whom it may concern, that
apf 1 icafion will be madent the VrcaL'ury ai tile U"
iiited States for a re*ewal of the fame.
Waddington isf Harwood. \
march 22 §& w
Notice is hereby given, -
npHAT application wilt be made for the renewal
JL of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, standing in the name of the Subfcri
hcr, No. 5004, anddatedjuly n, 1797— the fame
having beeu loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 6w
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Snbfcriber, aji insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New
; Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
: of the Inferior Court of Cftanmon Tleis, m and
for the said county, praving that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl his liberation, purluant to an ail of the
Legislature of this State, entitled'" an aS for
the relief of insolvent debtors," psfitfd the 26th
day of January 1798— And the the laid court
did appoint Monday the 261*1 day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Prec'intf, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are requelt.d take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —iawsw
To the Affli&ed with
NERVOUS Disorders, lofsof appetite, female
complaints, debilitated constitutions, inward
weaknefles, lownefa of spirits, seminal weaknesses,
iudigeftion, decayed, weak or relaxed
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
- icties, and tremors, which so dreadfully affidi the
weak, the sedentary andtheddieate, every fymp
-- torn of extreme debility, attendant on the inaifcre
' tions of youth, the consequences of a difiipated
if life ; exceft of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
- the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or
any intemperance ; disorders incident to youag
h girls and women at a certain poriod of life——
1- I THE CELEBRA TED
r ; Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of abfolutaly fpecific andunparal-
leled virtues, in the speedy and effectual cure of th«
(J above disorders, having flood a trial of many fuc
ls c«f»f»l years, darinj which period masy have been
restored from the brink ef the grave.
Youth and age of either sex, are equally theob
jeSs of this Rcllorative, and they will uniformly
- participate in its Talnbrions qualities effe<3s ;
for whetherthe system has received a shock, and is
* debilitated, from imprudencies or inattention in
ehe earlier part of lite, or is fmkiop under the ad
;h vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
at will give present relief to, and afTord a pleaifing
ry profpcil of returning health and strength, by giv
- mg tone to the muscular I yllem and organs of di
e* geltion, and in a great meaiure renovating the coa
r- ftitutioii.
Women at any period of life, may by this mcdi
a- cir.ebifrecd from the most iflliAing disorder* in
s cideat to the (el, and at a certain period it is ilioft
lie highly ufeful.
The CorJial Rrftorative Balsam i< fold jfenuitw
ad (only) by the proprietor, Dr.JAMES CHURCH,
n, at hit medicini Itorc, No 1, South Third kreet,
of next Market • rect, Philadelphia ; where may be
LO, hac an account of the virtue of this Reftvrative
and a lill of cures.
afrrilj aawvw
L O S T,
THIS morning;inorneartheinarket,aLac'.y's
Red Morocjco Pocket Book with a Silver
Clasp, about half worn,in which were two Ten 1
Dollar Bank and sundry papers, ufelcfa to n
any but the owner. If the person who found
it will leave it and 'the contents with the printer v
hereof, they will be nwar ui with cue of the ,
notes. v
april 18 *.!* F
TO BE SOLD,
A Very Valuable Farm,
SITUATE on theMefoaminy creek, JJuck'scoun
ty„ contaHni* about 148 acres, of which abouC 30 I
acre? are excellent woool-land ; the remainder mia
dow and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
state ; tho whole «nder poll and rail fence, chi fly
new last summer. On the prcmifes are a
and barn. The ftfuation for % country fat is per
haps one of the most eligible in the vie inity of Phi
ladelphia, lyipg on the Nelhaminy, with the ad
vantage of a landing place within 100 yards of the
farm-houfc, und commanding a very exxeufive view
of the surrounding country :ii is about' three quart- r
ers of a mile from the floating bridge, 17 3-4
miles from Philadelphia, aud 21-2 miles from Bris
tol. For terms of lale and further information ap- j
ply to Thomas Benrer, F.fq. ia Bristol, or (
WILLIAM WALN,
No. 144, South Second street. 1
April 7. 3tawtf 1
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well burlt second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff»s and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness. —
Enquire of Perer Umerickhoufc, Arch, below ,
Sixth street, or the fubferiher in Germantown.
CASPAR IV. HAINES
april 1
Ilrael Morris 1
against | Maryland.
Thomas Margatroyd, James Bell, \ In Chancery,
Marfkall and Benjamin Smith, r March 8,
Executors ot Samuel Tucker, j
deceased. j
THE objeil of the bill, is for tbe Complain
nant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 1781, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £.200 principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant afiigned, by way of security tor
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, for the sum
of jC-350 that the said Tucker received of the
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
sum of £.IOO and neglefled totakefteps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Dawning
became insolvent.
The bill states that all the defendants art
now reftdents of the State. It is .therefore, on
his motion, adjudged anld ordered, that he
cause a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks fucceflively, infome newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
at any time before the firll day pt May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notiee of the complainants applicarion to
this court and of the substance and objeftof his
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third Taefday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree ihould not pass
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Keg. Cur, Cau.
April 3 *_ j CO3W
'"T'Hli term of Co-partnerlhip be tween the sub-
X fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
iar, jun.andCo. expicesthis day, and by mutual!
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con»
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Mill-r,
Jun. to whom alt those indebted,to the p»rtnerfhip,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay. 1
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
Jb A ND ING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBIH,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do.. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
nriweh 3
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis „
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller iif Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
tluy have opened a Wholesale Dry Gpod Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a genera! af
fojtment of India, German, Irijh, Frenci and Bxi
tijh Mannfallures for sale, on advantageous termf
for calh or a short creait.
I February 19 §tf
', " TO BE LET r
And poj/ejjion given immediately,
Agenteel three story brickHoufe,
> N >. 7, North Eighth street,
i 24 feet front and 55 feet deep, with a handsome
, G^rtten.—Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
r april 4 §
I : 7
Just Received,
AMD FOR SALE BV
ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
! A Quantity of GeoTgia Cotton.
» ALSO,
Prime Aux.-C.ayes Molasses
Raisins in
f Sugar in barrels—and
! A few tons of Nicaragua wood. >
* 4th mo. 4th f»®
II !
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
W No. Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
- I) EPORT of the Committee of the House of
. 1V ReprefentativesoftheUnited States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
i- against VcILLUM BLOUNT, a Senator cf the
1- United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
[t demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
14 Committee to fit during the recefo of Congress, and
!, inftiuiling them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
t, " means, todifcover the whole nature and extent
>c "of theoffimc. whereof the laid William Blount
rj " (lands impcachej, and who are the parties and
" alTociatestherein."
Printed bj order of the House of Representatives
{Volume XIII.
ADVERTISEMENT.
I ODGED ir» the Treasury of the -United States to
fee funded, and for sale, between twenty and thirty
thoufand'dollars iu Public Securities, endorsed* by the
Uhited States, with the promise to pay theintereU an
nually at five per cent, per annum.
The owners wanting money, will dispose of the
whole' sum at twenty-five per cent, discount 80 large
adifeount will make it an obje6fc with monied men
who confide in public credit* or rely upon the molt
perfrlt engagement evet entered into by Congress.
Enquire of JOHN M. TAYLOR, Bj, CMmit
street.
April .ft dgw
LANDING^
From OB board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
wt. Java COFFEE
300 canitlers SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April ij. | §_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near tht Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea aad eoliee
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taflities
Pun gem cloths, choppah roraalls, and bandannoe*
China and English umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfartment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in. boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lid and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley fleel, Spanish. brown a,nd white
leaxl
Englilh fcythes42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
iti barrellsef kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious Store in Dock-street,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitabte for
any bufiuefs.
4th mo. sth §tf
Jail Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Ifleof Franse,
And for lale By
jfofeph Anthony \Sf Co.
10 bales Bourbon cotton of a superior quality }
150 bags do. coffee
14 calks do. Indigo
april 3 diot
IMPORTED.
AND TOR SALS BV THE SUBSCRIBER.
Brown Hollands
Oil Cloths
Gilt, Silver'd and common marbled paper
German Tapes
Looking Glafles
Straw knives, Scythes, and a variety of other
German goods.
ALSO ON HAND,
A General Aflortment of Ironmongery,
Sadlery, &c.
Gideon Hill Wells,
Market, ietween 3d and 4th streets, No. 135.
April 17 tawSw
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM PO R T-A U-P MNC E,
And FOR SALE, by tht SUBSCRIBERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
too barrel* <Jo.
100 bags do
110 hog (heads of Mufcova<to Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 of MolafTes
4 bales of Cotton
a hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS FRANCIS.
Penn-ttreet.
march i». u
For Sale,
A Farm and Country Seat,
SITUATED on the welt fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norm-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia— th<; farm contains 195 «c es oi land, 50
of which are woodland, about of and
the rell arable land. The houfc and garden which 19
large and well paled, stand in the moil pleifaot situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an iflaod
which isoppofite. and ihe village of Norris-town—
There is a shad fifhery belonging to the place —En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North 1 hird Street,
or on the premifea.
April j6 lawtf
Interpriterof Fortiori Languages*
JOSEPH E. G. M. DC LA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. no,
BEINQ duly commifiloned and sworn in the a
bpve capacity, offers to translate the French,
Engliih, Spanish, Portugacfe and Italian Langua
ges : he flatters himfelf that his former
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to tranil ite any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary instruments.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to thi*
collection, it consists now of about 1500 volume*,
the best adapted to anlwer the purpose of those
, wifh both to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufeful inftrudfcion and plcafure.
. march 30. lawTm
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, *nd about five miles from the city j
the whole beiHg under good fence, and is ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Ckesson, at his Office for the
tale of Real Eflates, Conveyaneing, &c. No. 54,
High-flrect.
4th mo. id. tuicftlt
MESSAGE
Of the President of the United States,
Toboih Houses of Congrefg,
APRIL 3, 'gß
• With the Dispatches from the Envojs of
the United States at Paris,
t Which accompanied the Same.
f FOR sALE
' At No. 63 North 3d street, at Way & Gross .
' Printing-office, No. 17 Arch flreet, and at ti.
l j office of the r.Jiior,No. 119, Chefnu-dreet
d Wanted, to Hire y
" A I<lrge and conv «nient HOUHE, in or n.
't A the centre of th« city—for which a gener .
d rent will be given; to be uk-n for a year, o? .
more for a longer term, fnquireof th« Printer
•' oa. 17.CON G R £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, April 13.
THE K'fc R laid before the HouTe a
report of the Secretary of the Treafufy,
on a'memorial of sundry merchants ot this
city, praying for the erection of certain piers
in the river Delaware. The report (Kites it
to be the opinion of the Secretary of theTrea
fiiry, that it will be expedient to provide for
the erection of tlie said piers, and recommends
an appropriafion of a fttm of money for the
purpose.—Committed for Monday.
Mr. Craik, from the committee to whom
was referred the amendments of the Senate to
the bill providing an appropriation for com,
■ leting the necessary buildings in the city of
Wafhingten, reported it as their opinion, that
the amendments ought to be agreed to. The
report was committed to a committee of the
whole, -and being made the order for this day
the House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whale on that futojeCl. The Senate had
(truck out all the bill, except the enabling
clatife, and inserted in its place a provision
for a loan of 100,000 dollars, which, together
with the 100,000 dollars which has already
Keen obtained 011 Join under the authority of
the law in which Congress guarantees a loan
for the city of Washington, mak<* up the
300,000 dollars there authorized to be bor
rowed. The original bill, as sent from this
House, proposed a grarit of 200,000 dollars ;
but the Chairman of the feteiit committee
(Mr. Craik) said, as he believed this was all
that couid be got at this time, he hoped the
amendment would be agreed to. It was a
greed to accordingly.
Mr. Varnum presented a petition from the
freeholders and others of the town of Cam
bridge, in the date of Maffachufetis, Itating
their alarm on account of the privilege given
to merchants to arm their vefl'els (whicb they
look upon as tantamount to war) as they be
lieve rfronger reasons than ever now exilt for
redraining their arming; that they anxiously
wilfi for peace, believing that we have no
thing to hope from war, but dishonour and
disgrace; that they hope no idea of falfe ho-
prevent such measures being taken
as (hall preserve peace, and by that means
mod certainly promote the public welfare.
Mr. Varnum moved that this petition be
referred to the committee of the whole 011 the
state of the Union.
- Mr. Dana said he did not hear the petition
didinCtly, but he thought there were lome
things in it which were not very proper to be
contained in a petition, and which rendered it
improper to be referred.
The quedioh was put, and it was referred,
38 '0 35-
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
Claims, made a report on the petition of the
Hot*. Henry Glen. The report dates that
during the principal part of the lad war, Mr."
Glen discharged the duties of an Agent in the
Commiftary General's and Quarter Mailer
General's departments, as will as an Agent
of Indian Affairs, in an highly meritorious
manner; that lie received pay only in one ca
pacity till the 10th May, 1782, though he
fervr.d in (evcral; that he ferveo.as Agent for
Indian Affairs two years .afterwards, for
which he exported to have received pay from
General Schuyler, who was one of the Com
mi(T?orters for Indian Affairs. Being difap
peinied in that expectation, he was told he
nu ;"sciv to the tTnited States for compen
fjtiQH. On applying to tsie Treasury, the
officer , refufed to fettle his accounts, being
barred by the Itatutes of limitation. Mr.
Glen prays for at lead his two years pay is
Agent of l.idian Affairs. The committee re
gret that these accounts were not presented ini
proper time, but cannot find reasons for sus
pending the aft of limitation in this cafe,
which would not apply in many others; they
therefore recommend that the petitioner have
leave to withdraw his petition.
Mr. Livingston presented the petition
of Charles White, of this city, merchant,
praying that means may be taken forreftoring
to him his vefl'el, which has been seized, 011
account of improper conduct in the captain
employed.—Referred to the committee of
commerce and manufactures.
Mr. Bayard, from the Managers of the
Impeachment agaicift William Blount, who
were appointed to confer with the Senate on
the subject of their resolution, made a report
which was orderad to lie on the table.
Mr. SiWALL moved that the committee of
the whole to whom was referred the bill from
the Sentate to authorize the Prcfident to pur
chase one or more foundries, be discharged
from the further confederation of it, and that
it be referred to the committee of the whole
on the (late of the Union ; which being car
ried, he then moved that the House go into a
committee of the whole on the date of the
Union, which was done accordingly, and the
committee proceeded to consider the resoluti
on which was yederday under discussion, for
appropriating a sum of money for the purchase
of cannon, arms, and ammunition, and the
amendment proposed by Mr. Sewall, to em
power the President, in cafe other means
Oieuld fail in any considerable degree, to pur
chase or hire foundries or armouries, which
(hall be employed in manufacturing the fame
for the use of the United States.
This amendment was supported by Mcffrs.
Sewall, Brooks, Otis, Dana, Gordon, Harper,
Dayton, J. Williams, Rutlcdge, Allen, Hart
ley, and Pinckney, on the ground of its be
ing necessary to provide for a (upply of can
non and arms at all events; that though they
allowed it would be bed to purchase whillt
that colild be done, yet there being but few
places in the United Stateswhere cannon of a
large callibre in particular could be calt, the
pr6prietors of these Aorks might unite toge
ther and refufe to contrail for a supply of
cannon, except upon very exorbitant terms ;
or it was possible they might be influenced by
a foreign country not to furnifh a supply, and
if such (hould be the cafe, an appropriation of
money could not procure cannon, and it would
be proper and necessary, that tne President
should have a power to hire or purchase foun
dries, ami to employ persons to work them
bn our own account.
It was opposed by Meflrs. Livingdon, Gal
latin, Maton, Nicholas, M'Dowell, Lyon and
T. Claiborne, from a conviction that cannon
could be purchased to any extent; that if this
power was given they doubted not the project
of calling our own cannon would be immedi
ately gone into, which, from pad experience,
they had every reason to believe would be ex
penflve beyond measure, without answering
any good purpose; and so far from fecurirg
a supply, they thought it would be likely to
prevent it, as when the founders fee the Pre
lident has a power to purchase, they may re
fufe to contract, from Hie hope of making a
good bargain in the fate of their works.
The tjuellion on the amendment was put
and carried, there being $0 votes in favour of
it-
The resolution was then carried without a
division; the committer rose, and a bill was
v rd*red to be brought in accordingly^
On a motion of Mr. Liying(t"on, theHoii
relo'ved itfelf into a committee of rtie whole
on the report of the committee ot commerce
and manufactures on the petition of Pierre
Aupoix, who prays for a drawback on goods
exported, which was refufed to be paid him
by the collector of New York, on the ground
of h ; i having omitted to take the oath (during
the time of a firmer collector) not to re-land
the goods in the United States, though he had
complied with every other reqailite, and it
was an omission of thecolleflor that he did'
npt do this. The report was favourable, and
was concurred in, after some debate. The
committee rose, and the House having con
firmed the decision, a bill vjras directed to be
brought in accordingly. Adj. till Monday.
Letter from the Secretary at War, to the Chair
man of the Committee, on so much of' the Presi
dent's Speech as r-lates to the FroteMon of
Commerce, and r*c Defence of the Country,
■ inclnftng fumfry papers, relative to the pro-vtfi
onal measures vubich, in the opinion of the said
Secretary, fb')uld be immediately taken to pro
tecl the commerce, and secure and defend the
territory and sovereignty of the United States.
War Department, April 9th, 1798.
Si R,
I D O myfelf the honor to inclose you a
■detailed view of the provisional measures, it
appears to me proper, (hould, in the present
conjuncture of the affairs of this country, be
immediately taken, to proteCt our commerce,
and secure and defend our territory and sove
reignty.
I have the honor to be,
With great refpeCl,'
Your modobedient servant,
JAMES M'HENRY.
Hon. Samuel Sewall,!
Chairman, See. See. J
War Department, 9th April, 1798.
WHAT measures are Jiecedary and pro
per to be adopted by Congress, in the
present conjuncture, to preserve character a
broad, elteem for the government at home,
fafety to our sea-property, and protection to
our territory and sovereignty !
France derives several important advanta
ges from the fydem (he is pursuing towards
the United States. Besides the tweets of
plunder, obtained by her privateers, die keeps
111 them, a nursery of (eamen, to be drawn
upon, in all.conjunctures, by her navy. She
unfits, by the fame means, the United States
for energetic measures, and thereby prepares
11s, for the lad degree of humiliation and fub
jeCtion.
To forbear under such circumdances, from
taking naval and military meafures,to secure
our trade, defend our territory in cafe of in
valion, and prevent or suppress domedic in
surreCtion, would be, to offer up the United
States a certain prey to France, and exhibit to
the world a fad fpeflacje of national degrada
tion and imbecility.
The United States pod'efsan extensive trade,
heavy expences mud be submitted to for its
protection The United States border upon
the provinces of great and powerful king
doms, heavy expences mud bo incurred, that
we may be at all times in a situation to assert
our rights to our own territory. The measures
which appear iridifpenfibly necedary for Con
gress to take, are as follows, viz.
id. An increaSe ot the naval force, to serve
as convoys, proteCt our fiflieries, coad and
harbours. 2d. An augmentation of the pre
sent military edablidiment. 3d. Arrange
ments which in cafe of emergency, will give
to the President, the prompt command of a
further and'efficacious military force, 4th.
The more complete defence of our principal
ports by fortifications. sth. A supply of
ordnance, small arms, powdei, falt-petre,
copper and military stores„ 6th. Additional
revenue.
To answer the id. Congress ought to pro
vide for the building or purchasing, equip
ping, &c.-of 2 vessels of 22 guns, Bos 20 guns,
and ten of 16 guns, in addition to the three
frigates.
Congress might also to ved the President
with authority, in cafe of open rupture, to
provide, equip, and by such means as he may
judge bed, a number or (hips of the line, not
exceeding fix, or an equivalent force in sri
gates.
The firft may be either built or purchased
in the United States. The latter may, per
haps) be obtained in Europe ; for which pur
pose the law (hould use general dXpreffions,
admitting this mode of procuring them.
To build the twenty vessels, equip, man,
and provifionthem for twelve months, will re
quire, as per edimate, dolls. 1,941,181
It may, under, under this head, be also ad
visable, to make a provision for (ix gallies,
carrying each one or two 24 pounders. This
will require for galliescarrying one 24 pound
er as per edimate, dolls. 68,826
id. An augmentation of the present milita
ry edablidiment. This ought to confid of offe
regiment of infantry—l regiment of artillery,
and 1 regiment of cavalry. The artillery is
considered as indifpenfible, and the cavalry
may be highly ufeful in the southern dates.
These will require, agreeably to the edimate,
g dolls. 517,998
3. An arrangement which in cafe of emer
gency, will give to the President, the prompt
command of a further and efficacious milita
ry force.
This ought to be, a provisional army of
20,000 men, and may be organized agreeable
to the principles of a bill proposed in the Se
nate during the late extraordinary session, to
which I beg leave to refer.
4. The more complete defence of our prin
cipal ports by fortifications.
This may require, 100,0000 of dollars, but
(hould the naval force be rendered respeCta
ble, much of this sum may be (aved.
5. A supply of cannon, small arms, fait pe
tre, copper, 6cc. which, severally, will re
quire—
For cannon, as per edimate, dolls. 308,900
For small arms, fay 50,000 dands, at
12 dolls. 600,000
For fait petre, copper for
(heathing, Sec. 200,000
In framing the law, to furnifh our maga
zines with ordnanfe, it will be proper to em
ploy such expreflions, as will enable the Pre
sident to procure brass cannon, mortars, &c.
with the neceirary quantities of ball, (hells,
&c. These have not been fpecified in the
edimate ; but thefum may, perhaps, be Ulffi
cient to comprehend them.
To render the regiment of infantry as ufeful
as possible, it is proposed, that the men (hould
be inlided to aCt in the double capacity of
marines and infantry. By an arrangement of
this kind, and having the men dationedat the
principal sea ports, they will be always ready
to be put on board such vessels as want them,
and when not so wanted, will serve to defend
the coad, work upon the fortifications, or in
dock yards, and guard the public property
from thefts or embezzlement.
All which is refpeCtfully fubmitfed.
JAMES M'HENRY.
Hon. Sam. Sewall, chairman of)
the committee for the protec- I
tion of commerce, and the de- f
fence of the country. J
> NEW-YORK, April iS.
The (hip Fanny, capt. Braine, has arrived
tni» moment from Glasgow. She brings Glas
gow papers to the Sth March, which Contain
Paris news to the id March, and London to
the 6th.
An article from London of the 6th March
fays,
" No more veflels are to be fuffered to go to
Calais in future, but to Gravelines. An em
bargo is said to be taidat Calais,
" It appears from the Paris papers to the
2d inft. that the Spanish fleet which failed
from Cadiz on the 7th ult. consisted of 16 fail
of the line and 6 frigates. Their purpose ap
pears to have been to convoy three (hip* la
den with quicksilver for the life of their mines
in Peru, and to protefl their homeward bound
trad£ from South America.
London, March 6— 3 per cents. 504-4.
Nothing in the papers respecting American
affairs.
On the 17th Feb. a squadron of 5 French
frigates failed with troops for St. Domingo.
The Portland Packet, from Jamaica to
• London, is captured by the French.
GLASGOW, March 1.
The second, fourth and fifth, of the" Ham
burgh mails, which have b>en so long* due,
arrived on Monday ; but the firft and another
now become due, have not vet come to hand.
Captain Herbert, of the Ihip Amelia, has
addrelled a letter to the editors of some of the
London papers, contradicting the report of his
(hip's company havingever made an attempt
to give her ud to the enemy.
GLASGOW, March 8.
The citizens of Rome have planted the tree
of liberty before rbe capitol, a|id proclaimed
the Roman republic. An account of the pro
cellion 011 this occasion we find in the French
papers.
A Paris article of the 24th Feb. fays, Du
phont, the French consul at Philadelphia is
recalled.
Merlin has succeeded Barras in the Prefi
dentlhip of the Directory.
LONDON, February 26.
We understand, that, by the Hamburgh
mail, which arrived on Saturday, ministers
received advice that Leonard Bourdon had
made application to the Senate of Hamburgh
for a loan of one million of ducats, which af
ter a close difeuflion, the Senate thought pro
per to refufe.
It is improbable France will (hut up Ham
burgh against this country, till it has taken ,
steps to exclude us from the Danish and Prus
sian ports also. What would be the differ
ence to Britain between trading thro' Ham
burgh, or trading through Altona ?
The French dill profels to march their ar
mies into the neighbouring countries with na
view to conquelt, but simply to aid the pro
gress of liberty. Quere—lf this be true, how
are these armies to be paid ?—Requifition is
conquelt.
February 28.
By letters from Dresden it appears that the
Ruffian Adjutant-General Zifkow, with two
Secretaries, lias arrived from Vienna. It is
said that he has some important proposals to
make to several of the courts, of Germany :
but as to their precise object, there is much .
speculation.
Two (hips of the line are ordered to be sta
tioned for the defence of the Eflex coafis,
vix. one off Harwich, and thß other in the
Wallet, which commands the entrance of the
Colne and Blackwater rivers.
Many reports are circulated refpefting the
place where the French will attempt to land,
(hould they persevere in defign of invad
ing this country. It seems highly probable,
however, whatever falfe appearances they
may hold out §ither to deceive themfetves or
us, that Gravefendis the place of their final
defti nation.
March 5. "
It has for some time been announced, that
instead of waiting for the threatened invasion
of the enemy, ministers were preparing some
offenfive measures against the enemy's own
coast. The measure is now announced. A
squadron under fir Riehard Strachan now
blockades the mouth of the river Seine, by
whichmeans theportsof Havre and Rouen,
and even Paris itfelf, are excluded from all
communication with the sea.
look with confidence to a fleet
of more than 100 (hips of the line before the
month of July.
By a mail from Lisbon we are informed,
that earl St. Vincent has driven the Spanish
fleet of 22 fail of the line, into Cadiz. The
Spaniards came out on the 7th Feb- with the
intention of attacking admiral Parker's divi
sion of ten (hips ; but the earl comniing up
with the remainder of our fleet, -the Dons.
pu(hed into port with greater expedition thin
they quitted it.
PARIS, February 15.
A letter from Strafburgiinnqunces that if-'
fairs at Raftadt, instead of being in aLettes
train, are every day more involved. The
chief cause of this is, that the deputation of 1
the Empire will by fto means consent to the
ceflionof the countries situated on the left of
the Rhine. This refufal will astonish no one
who is acquainted with the manner in which
that deputation is conipofed,and the personal
interest of every member there, (lands in the
way or such accession. There remains no o
thertroops at Strafburg than those in the for
trefs. An army of 25, 000 men under the com
mand of Gen. Schamborough has set off to
the frontier of Switzerland.
February 19.
A melTage from the Directory announced
to the council of Elders the entry of our
troops into Rome. *
Another message from the Directory te the
Council of Five Hundred, announced, that a
courier jifft arrived, brings the news that the
troops of the republic, by virtue of the'order
of the general in chief of the armies of Italy,
charged with the punishment of the treason &
perfidy of the incorrigible government of
Rome, occupy since the 1 ith of January, the
cattle of Angelo and the capitol.
February 25."
The Pope has not left Rome. He is not
in custody, butclofely watched.
General Berthier hat particular orders
from the Dire&ory to secure the person of
tbe P. pe, and as many of the Cardinals as
possible.
MADRID, February 1.
7he treasure off amours is not yet exhattfled for
tbe Prince of Peace. To title t, to gifts of eveiy'
kind already heaped upon him, tbe King has ad
ded the office of chief of tbe Palace (Gefe de Pala
cioj an office, the title of 'which Iwould alarm a
monarch more fufpiciou% than ours. A Council of
■war has been apppointed to try tbe commander of
Truxillo, one of our plactl in America, in the
province of Gantimplit- Tbf officer abandoned
it on the approach of the Britijb, rwbo entercd'it
'without any oppofitien, but •were driven out im
mediately after.
SIUTGARD, February g.
general Staader has sent p'Juive orders to the
Lominundunt of Alanbeim, on no account-tt sur
render that city, but it defend him/elf to the lajl
drbp of blood,
FRANKFORT, Feb. 6.
We have had areport here, though it is nt>t
credited, that the French have surprized and
taken pollelHon of Phrliplburg.
February 10.
The French envoy, citizen Mengaud, since
the troops of Berne, contrary to his represen
tations, have marched to Arau, and arrelted
the patriots there, has issued a formal decla
ration war against Berne, and much blood
shed is expected "hen the French, who are
violently enraged, (hall reach that city.
It is reported that the French have already
entered Berne.
Louis XVIII. has left Blankenburgh for
Mittan." As soon as the Emperor of Rullia
#as ins rmed of his inajefty's wilhes to reside
in his dominions, after being expelled from
those of the duke of Brunfwick, he gave or
ders for the caltle of Mantau to be immedi
ately prepared for his reception.
COPENHAGEN, February 10.
Since the merchants ha' e coliplained of
the interruption their ttade has met with in
several part-: from privateer. See. two (hips
of the line are ordered to be got in readiness
irrtmediately. Our Inditj ships, homewa.id
ando tward hound, are in future to be seen
to a certain latitude.
From Stockclm we hear that they sre bu
(y in fitting out a fleet of men of war at
Carlfcror.a.
GERMANY.
RASTADT, February 2.
The answer of the Deputation of the em
pire was yesterday transmitted to the French j
Minister : it >ftates,
1. That they had expected, from the jus
tice and magnanimity of the French govern
ment, that they would have proposed, as the
basis of the treaty, the (tipulations, in favour
of the empire, which were made in the preli
minaries signed at Leobon. 2. That by these
preliminaries an armistice had been stipulated
till the period of a' definitive peace, and they
had reaibn to expert that all boftilities were
toceafeyand that all contributions and requi
(itions were to be discontinued. 3. That in
the Territories of the Empire occupied by the
French troops, property (till continued to be
seized and sequestrated, under pretence of e
migration, although the laws of nations for
bid the application of French laws to the cases
of the individuals concerned, and that they
have reason to expect, from the justice of the
French govenment, that these oppressions
would be prohibited. 4 That they (hould
likewise wifb that the French government
would disavow the projefts of republicanizing
and changing the forms of government in
certain (tates of the eTnpire occupied, or not
occupied, by the French troops.
The following is the answer of the French
Ministers to the note of the deputation of the
Empire, in which they declared that they
could not agree to the ceflion of the left Bank
of the Rhine, and that the indemnification
proposed for tfie powers, who have poffeflions
on the left Bank of ;he Rhine, at the expence
of those on the right, and the fijcularizations
of the Electorates or Biihoprics, is impracti
cable. It concludes with entreating the
French Ministers to propose more reasonable
bases.
Answer of the French Ministers.
" THE undersigned have received the an
swer of the Deputation of the Empire to the
proposal for the Rhine as the boundaries of
the French Republic. In transmitting it to
their government, they cannot help observing
that it rests upon foundations essentially vici
ous. All Europe knows that the Empirede
clared waragainfl the Republic at a time when
tbe latter entertained the mod sincere desire
and had the mod powerful interest in main
taining peace. It is futile then here to reft 011
the declaration, that the Republic would un
dertakeSvar for the purpose of conquest and
aggrandizement; a declaration besides which
in no refpeft excludes legitimate indemnifi
cation, especially in the cafe of unjust aggres
sion, and which in no refpeft alters the right
of providing for its security, by the establish
ment of fixed boundaries. It is evident,'on
the other, hand, that the constitution of the
Empire will not be altered by the single eir-
Cumftance of the diminution of its territory.
In fine, the preliminaries of a treaty in which
the Germanic , Empire is not even a party,
Ciinmjt be made the foundation of objection,
especially when its provisions are superseded
by thbfe of a definitive peace, ftibfequently
concluded. It is upon these three bases,
however, that the whole answer of the depu
tation re (Is.
The nvoment their vicioufnefs is demon- .
Urated, therefult is overthrown- The mo
tives which juftify the demand of the French
Republic remain in full force. The indem
nity claimed by the Republic is lawful. Its
security requiresthe boundaries of the Rhine.
The tranquility of the Empire even more
forcibly will demand these limits. The de
putation of the empire has been compelled
formally to admit that the' Republic would
not acquire a considerable acquisition of tbe
Trans Rihane either inrefpeCtof
their extent, their language, their customs,
and their mode of thinking. From this ob
servation it indisputably follows, that it is not
from a desire of, aggrandizement that the
French Republic desires the boundary of the
Rhine, and that its demand rests upon a basis
much more forcible, upon a motive common
to the two powers, that of providing by inva
riable boundaries for their future tranquility.
Such is the objecft at present to be fettled, and
not that series of questions which the deputation of
the empire endeavours to substitute in room of the
true objed of difeuflion. The undersigned shall
add only a single refle<stio», and it is, that the
prompt acceflion to the demand •( the French He
public, the subsequent examination of the acceflary
questions, and the conclulion of a solid peace, will
remove all pretext for mntual complaints This ii
the true way to prove that we refpe<3ively wifli in
reality, and not in appearance, to put a period to
the calamities of war.
(Signed)
TREILHAKD & BONNIER,
Ministers Plenipotentiary of the French Republic.
9 Pluviofe, Jan 29, year 6.
To this the Deputation returned an answer, in'
which they ascribed the war to the aggrefDons of
the French, and hope the Dire<2ory will fee the
importance of their objections.
February 4,
Count Gortz yesterday received a ccurier from
Berlin, who set out from that city a few hours af
ter the arrival of a courier from Peter/burg. It is
said thjit several of the princes of the .Empire have
made a representation of the present situation of
Germany to the Emperor of Rullia, and earnestly
implored his aid and afliftance.
The French ministers have returned an answer
to the representation of the Austrian Plenipoten
tiarirs,in whichthelattcrcomplaincdof theprogref j
oftfle system ofTcvolution in the Btffgw, Uppar
Biadcn, tcc. In this they fay exprsfsly t hattheir
government to v«ry far from encouraging such prac
tices, ?nd declare in its name that alfthe judicatures
have ordersto proceed with rigour against the p#-
pagators of these daftrines, in cafe they are deli
vered over to them by the. German magistrates.
All their emiflaries detected in /d£ice wilHikewife
be delivered up.
February 4.
In the fitting <rf the deputation of the Empire on
the 6th, the note of the French jninifters-of the xd
of February, was taken into farther consideration.
After mature delib«ration of the contents, it wa»
resolved to return an answer to the sol owing pur
port, which has already been delivered.
In this answer it was represented to the French
ministers, that " the negotiations for peace- could
he forwarded by nothing more than by enabling
the deputation to perceive at once, and in a ncr
fe<Stly connected manner, what the French Repub
lic required of the German Empire as a-facrifice, at
the termination of thi~ unfort.natr war, and what
it meant to propnfe as the conditions of peace.
Should an equitabfe and fatisfa<Story propofltion b«
made on the par.of the Republic, the
| would thereby be enabled to answer in such a man-
J ner as must afford .the heft founded hope of ar
1 speedy conclusion of the negociStion. On Ms ao
I count,- an answer, relative to the acceptance of the
| conditions proposed as the basis of peace, has not
'' yet been returned In the mean time, it will be
' considered as the firft proof of tlie peaceable difpo
; litions of the French Republic, {hould it withdraw
i its troops from the right bank of the Rhine, and
; relieve tho countries which have fuflired so se
verely.
The answer which the French ministers fhail re
turn to this note, will be of confiderahle inipor"
tance with refpeift to the progr,cfs of the negociation-
The Austrian plenipotentiaries have declared that
they have no inftruAions relative t!o the question of
tlie imundar V of the Rhine. It is said, however,
that this demand of the French ministers were not
expected at Vienna.
Tlie greater part of the Envoys from Swiflerland
are returning, Emigrants from Berne are already
j in Suabia, and theproje& of forming all Swiffer
land into one indivisible Republic daily gains
ground. ,
GLASGOW, March 3. \
Paris papers to the 24-th itVt. were received
oti Wednesday morning. We are prevented
at present from giving tlve particulars of the
intelligence which they contain, by the great
prelfiire of (more temporary matter. Buona
parte, it is said, in some of these papers lias
returned to Paris, in others, that he lias gone
to Raftadt. The Executive Directory have
addrefted a mefTage to the Council of Five
; Hundred, informing them, that the troops of
the Republic were in poft'effion of the Castle
of Angelo ; and of the capital of Rome-; of
the capital of that government " incorrigible
" in its perverlity, and furious in its hatred
" to the revolution and the French Repub
" lie."
NEW-THEATRii.
Mr. and Miss Hardinge's Night.
THIS "EVENING* April 20,
Will be prcfented, a celebrated CO MJLDY, (not per
formed these tivo years) called *
THE WEST INDIAN.
Stockivell, mr IVarren ; Belcour, mr Bernard •
captain Dudley, mr Fennell ; Cbar'es Dudley, mr Mar-
Jbull; major & Flaherty, mr Hardinge ; Stuiely, mr
IV-arrtU, jun ; Fulmer, mr Harivov A ; Varland, mr
Fyancis ; Sailor, mr Blijfett.
Lady *Rufpot /, mrs V EJirange ; Charlotte Ruffirt,
mrs JVJarfball; Louisa Dudley, mrs Hardimge; mrs
Fulmer, mrs Francis ; Lucy, miss Mi I bourne.
(Positively for that night only)
Mr Byrne (in the char after of FA ME) xutll FLY
from tbjt back of the Gallery to the further end of the
Jla&e, through a Blazing Sun.
After ivhichy a new Scotch Pantomimical Ballet (com
posed by Mr. Byrne), called
HIGHLAND FESTIVITY-
To •which -will ht added. a MUSICAI. ROMAICS,
in thrst atii. culled
THE .PRISONER,
[As performing at the Theatre. Drury Lane, London,
•with the frreattjl applaufc.]
Marcos, (the PrifonerJ mr Marjhdl; Bernard;
mr Fox; Pafqual, mr Darley ; Roberto, mr
cutis, mr Harroood J Narciffo» mcijler IVarr cti.
Clara, mrs IVarrell; Theresa miss Aliloouree ; JVi
na, mrs Marjhall; , miss Hnrdinge.
(IVith new Scenery and Decorations.)
Tickets to be had at the ufuul places, and of Mr.
Hardinge, No. 163, Arch-Strcct
(£j*.On Saturday, the favorite Tragedy
of ISABELLA——with a celebrated
COMIC OPERA,(never performed here)
called, MARIAN—For the benefit of Mr.
Daruev.
%* Mrs. Warrcll's Night will be oft
Monday next.
Ross & Sanson/,
HAVE FOR SAJ-E, '
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Bafta*, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
££?
April 10 5
TO RENT,
A good three ftofy House,
TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
Kitchen—-in Front, near South-{lrect.-*—Enquire
of the Printer. April ao—3aw3w
New Publication.
A Senjible, Seasonable ami Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written hy a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation-?
AND
What our Profpeds ?"
A few Paget jor Americans.
For Sale by WILLI/IM YOUNG,
Corner of Chefiiut and Second ttrects,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chcfuut Hr.
( Price three ft xtcent Is of a dollar)
fxtraA from the above.
u When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquifiling one right to
day aitd preparing to facrifiee another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our Heps, and every new concedion
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid submission invites depredation—Where
will this end ? What offering will gorgt the
appetite of plunder, or appease the rage
ot unrefifted hostility ? No rivtii%ed nation
has ever before been guilty ofifuch outrage
and ins Icnce, no free nation has ever Be
fore endured them. ,,
To be L(t y
(And immediate pofleCEoit given)
A -HlralpntCo-iutry Jjear, on the German*
® towi,roa dt five milei and a quarter from
the City. Enquire at No. 39 Pine*ftreer.
a F l *> iawtf, l - - 1
%i)c oasctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, April 20.
Yesterday the House ot Representatives of
the United States, went info a committee of
the whole on the State of the Union, on the
bill to provide an additional-armament for the
further protection of the trade of the United
States, and tor other purposes ; when the mo
tion to strike out the fourth Section coming a
gain finder conlidet'ation, it was (truck out al
nioll by common consent. The fifth, sixth
and seventh Sections, all which related to the
employment of the velTels as convoys, were
also (truck out —one part of the House not
thinking it necefl'ary to (tireft the Pi'elident
how the velTels should be employed, and a-
Bother being against their being employed as
convoys altogether. A motion was then
made by Mr. S. Smith, and carried 49 to 17,
for (triking out Sixteen velTels and inserting
twelve. Mr. Gallatin then madeamotion
to amend the firft Section, by adding the fol
lowing wools, " provided they velfsls)
lhall not, in time of peace, be employed as
convoys to any foreign.ptfrt or place," which
he Supported by a Speech ot considerable
length. The committee rose without taking
a qjie'ftiitn.
The thip India Packet, is arrived at Boston
from Canton.
A letter wasVeceivcd yesterday from Not
folk, which contained the fullowing intelli
gence :—A (hip from England, :n a short
puflage, has just gone by on her way to
Baltimore, —(ht brings information of the
American Envoys having arrived in Lon
don from Paris.
The Mad from Boston now arrives in four
days—We received papers from thence of ,
Monday the 16th inlt*iit this day.
ExtnuJl of a let'er froT? a merchant in Baltimore,
to his correspondent is th is city dated Apiil 16
" The pnbHiation -f the lnilrudiona to our j
Envoys m France, and their accent of proceed- :
irigs, fecai to unite all claflVs of people in the »p- !
probation of the moderate, yet firm tone taken by
our Executive ; and I cannotbut flatter my felf that,
in cafe an open rupture (liould follow, we (hall
find the American p more united, than
many circumstances »f late have indicated. Ihe ■
clamorous and unprincipled part of the communi
ty, will now hold thrtr tongaes ; and many who
were only in an error through ignorance, will now
join heaitand hand in repelling an enemy. M»y j
Heaven avert So great « calamity as war, is never- :
thelef*, the grayer of yours, &e."
Extr.nS of a letter from a gentleman in Virgi
nia, to his friend in this city, dated April ii.
« VYe have Seen the proceedings of Congress
as low down their rtqueft of the Prefitieni's
inftrii<fliens to our Envoys, and of their com
munications to him, with which requeftwe find
he has resdily complied. I am very much
pleafcd at this circumstance, as letters had been
written to some people in this part of the coun
try, in which it •> asserted, that the President
was afraid to make fhefe communi ations,
knowing they would criminate him. The il
liberal Sehtimcnts of theSe writers will be exp jf
ed, and much clamour will he Silenced— indeed I
1 think the President's cond'afton this occaSion
will produce ihe hanpitH efTe.ls. I confiJer the 1
prefen: call for papers as very different from
that made, when the Britilh treaty was under
difeullion. Then the ait was comp'eted by the
<oi)ftitutk»n»lpo.wfrt —now CongreSs is to take
rj-olt important mealiires, made nece(Tary in con
ft-q-j'etVce of the failure of negociations.and com
niimicaticns made to the President. Ihe pro
ceedings of Cungrefs fubfeqpent to the re-eipt
ofihefe oapers we (hall look for with impa
tience." ' . , »
(V, ?re —If the refolutisns, memorials &c late
ly pTefented tol Congress from various parts of
' ti\e Union may not have been in a considerable
degree, the result of letter* fu. h as are mention
ed in the above extrsft, and of which we have
fetn me fperimen lately publi(hed in this city ?
Qiiere. — If France enunciated such letters a
mong the ireaKi, wl >ch (lie alledged Jh? fojffid
in anr country, as fujp.cient to enable her ivith the
French pnrty in America* to~th'"ow the blame,
•which will attend the rupture of the negotiations
en the fedet-aUJIs ? .
MR. FENNO, . .
For a few days aft-r the President's 111
ftruflitjns to our Envoys Sent to France, and
their diSpatches to him, were publj(hed, the
aftoni(hment and horror every where excit
ed and expressed, struck So forcibly our Ja
cobins, that a universal Silence prevailed a
monK them ; and many good men, qandid
and honorable theroSelves, expreff<;i tlieir
hopes, that the means of conviction would
produce a reformation —Hopes alas, prema
ture and ill-founded 1 These diSorgani/.ers,
so long indebted to the patience and for
bearance of their country, deraonftrates how
well they deserve th« confidence of their mas
ters 111 France, to diftra6t our councils and to
divide our people. Ir.'hat detestable fink of
pollution, Bache's paper, the thermometer
of the faction, we already fee »pologies f»r
Freinch enorkrities, corruptions and profliga
cy. And will you, citizens of America a
gain be deluded ? impofllble.
The rulers of France, unrestrained by a
ny coqPderation of morality or religion. —
Under the hypocritical pretence ofeitablilh
ing liberty and equality, have by plunder,
a'Safiination and murder, a military
despotism, furpjffing in enovmous atrocity,
infinitely, all preceding tyrannies. This ef
fect, a dreadful lcffon to mankind, is not,
perhaps, to be deplored, as it respects the
wretched victims now groaning under the
cruel lafti, who were the willing inflruments
of fabricating this engine of torture-. This,
it might rcafoDaWly have been hoped, would
have deterred, every American mind, from
widiing a fraternal union,, with such a de
testable monster. But this is not, all-
France haa carried deftru.'".ion and ruin to
every country to which (he extend
dtlulion ; and exUnfive, indeed, has been
th s delusion. Holland, Venice, Genoa,
Geneva, wfiat alas have ye got in exchange
for liberty, fafety and independence,
but muider, pillage, sacrilege, and a
Source of desolation, furpaffmg all these,
Bioicrn pliilofophy, or in other, words
othrifm ? Ar.d Switzerland, too, for
centuries the abode rf peace, happiness,
virtue and religion—Switzerland tlk pride
and tlie boast of ths friends of republican -
ism, is, from the Same ca*Se; -ufhing to ru
in. With all theSe things palling before us,
the leaders of a faftion have dared to infnlt
our understanding and our virtue, by propo
fitig the French revolution as a model for i
mitation, and urging a cloSe union with its
authors.
One half of the deformities of this pic
ture are not yet exhibited. From the com
mencement of their revolution, the French
have praftiSed againlt us a catalogue as un
pardonable crimes. They have endeavour
ed to seduce us into war—they have charged
us with the base crime of national ingrati
tude—they have, with diabolical malignity
Qandered thoSediftinguifhedcharaiters which
are the glory of our country —they have ob
tained our property under solemn promises
of payment, and when they, becoming bank
rupts in credit, ate no longer able to pro
cure it by thoSe means, tvith the impudence
of lawless robbers, they it without the j
pretence of right ; nay more, against the I
solemn dipulations of national ,contradl ; j
and inflead of apologizing for those outra- i
ges, they refufe to hear our complaints ; re- ;
turn Ihidied Scorn for our remonflrances,
and treat with contempt the honourable
meffeugers of peaceand conciliation. They
do more—they demand our money as a fa
tisfa&ion for their plunder, and the wages of
iniquity as the price of friendjhip. And to
conclude the climax of impudence they tell
us that resistance is not in our power. That j
we are diyided, and that theyhave the means
and the " (kill" to prevent our making one
getierous effort for independence. Shall we
verify their arrogant predictions ?
The firft to e—hibit their {kill i 3
displayed by their creature Bache.. He has
undertaken to prove that Talleyrand, the
French minifler of Foreign Affairs was not
authorized by his government, to make the
corrupt proposals which he did make to our
tuiniders. Let thisfor a moment be admit
ted ; and what, then, is the inference to be
drawn ? Surely he wilhes to infer that to ev
ery thing else we are tamely to fubmit—
that all things else are to go for nothing—
where then is national pride, where a regard
for national interests ? Are we when un
justly chaftifcd patiently to endure, and thus
to provoke further aggreflions ? Shall we
thus dadardly Surrender our national inde
pendence, the honour of our country, and
the intereds and property of our citizens ?
Shall we without one manly effort permit
the American name, lately the moil fair
and honoured on earth, to be vilely tarnish
ed ? Forbid it gracious Heaves.
But is there no evidence that Talleyrand
afited by the direction of his government ?
Permit me to alk, whether it be poflible to
suppose that he would thus have put his
fame, his property, his life in the pow
er of our ministers ? For if unauthorised his
ruin must have been the .inevitable conft
qience of a disclosure. Again, when Mr.
Jay was sent to England, had a similar pro
portion been made by lord Grenville, would
a man in America have bad the fliamelefs
effrontery to make such a quibbling excufa"?
If any wretch had done it, he would have
been viewed witliab'horrence and detestation.
I may hereafter offer you fomefurther ob
servations on this fubjeft. In the mean time
let me warn the desperadoes of faftlon at
least to temper their temerity, and not to
trust, too much, to theunexampled patience
of the American character. Vengeance will
not always sleep. Our evils'all result from
treason, and traitors cannot always be fafe..
Our country wbuld now have been wholly
unaffailcd by the French, h:d they not
been induced by th e outrageous conduct of
the opposition. This eppofition, therefore,
is reSponsible to God and their country
for all the evils we have or may yet expe
rience. » A. Z. «
MR. FENNO,
For want of better employment, I have
teen dipping into that Farrago ofCallender,
which he dignifies with the title of Sketch
es of the History of America. Like his
" Political Progress" it may be faiJ to con
tain, " the mod allonilhing concentration
of abuse" against the administration of this
country, that is any where to be met with ;
and cannot fail to give a very advantageous
idea of the bonelly and modest merit of the
author. But however the work may be re
lished by its Supporters, for myfelf I must
fay, thflt I met with nothing like truth in
it, until I had waded into the fubje£t of
Banks, and the pernicious efftdts of the ex
cess of Bank paper. Here indeed he devi
ates into some just observations, but even
then, it is with a wicked intention. With
i milchievous design,- of throwing the blame
on the Sederalids, when it more justly be
longs to the opposite party. With reSpedt
to the ellablifhment of the Bank of the U
nited States, as an abftraft proposition, I
should fay I disapproved of it ; though the
evil of an exceSs of circulating medium, was
then little felt. But when viewed as an aid
to the Federal Government, which was,
and (till is assailed by a formidable opposition,
I pronounce it a wife and salutary measure.
Not so, with refped to the Bank as Penn
sylvania. If flic country was really fuffer
ing, as I btlieve it was, from a Superabun
dance of paper currency, the inllitution of
the latter vastly more mischievous than
that of the forme-. The evil (if existing)
was at this time more apparent, and much
encr'eafed by similar cftablilhments in differ
ent parts of the union ; and the state of
Pennsylvania was without the plea of need
i g (upport j u left indeed the anti-federal
promoters of the f heme, thought it want
ed support against the general government,
or rather the means of flopping its wheels.—
And this in fad, I have always considered
as the real ground of the eftabli(hment. Citi
zens Gallatin and Swanwick, if I miftakc
not, weTe the principal agents in the busi
ness, so it is but just, that they should have
its odium. The historian indeed helps them
out, at the expence of their sagacity.
" They did not forefce it 3 conftqucnces to
the public at large." But then he makes
t!>«m ample amends by observing, that "its
operations tended to weaken the vortex of
influence, which ten milb'ons of capital gave
to tbc Bank of the United States
The impartial historian fpon after betrays
a tcfil ignorance of the conduft and cbm
pofition of his party, when he so feelingly
complains of the opprcflive superiority of
the Ameactfn landed intercft. Simply to
judge from tne clanv.r of the patiiots, a
gainst the excise, and e»ery species of indi
rect taxation, there appears to be some I
ground for the inference, upon the fuppo- ■
fition that they want any taxes at all. But j
to a land tax (on honed motives) they are e- j
qually opposed. As being mare generally j
felt, and therefore more likely to excite dif- j
afFe£lion. to the government they prefer it, ;
and their clumsy advocate has altogether '
mifcanceived their msaning. Had he pof
fefled but a common share of difcerutneiTt,
he might have known better Far shame, ;
you historical fltetcher ! Do you not per- I
ceive that citizen Giles i»- ycleped Farmer j
Giles, by way of eminence ? And that all j
his patriotic colleagues are Farmers ? Are 1
not the Republican members of the Pennfyl- •
vania delegation, Farmers to a man ? Hon
ed Farmers, words »-ternally coupled toge
ther in this country, forming a complex idea
inseparable as Hercules and his (liirt, and as
much one and indivisible, as the immaculate
and all subduing rep'ublic. For eonfufion's •
fake, take better heed, or your empl yers
will discard you- It is true I believe, that
in Scotland, and moltothc* landed countries,
the landed intered forms the aridocracy, but
here, at lead in Pennfylvauis, the rtmor
Patri® leads them to disorganize. Yes,
through the effervefcence of patriotism, to
disorganize. Therefore look td't.
But though thehidorianhasmade atripor
two, it mud be allowed, that in general, he
is Itriftly au Pas, and preserves the bold
and manly features of the jacobin ifchool.
Morality and judice never enter into his
plans of policy. Expediency with him, is j
all in all, and though he sometimes bears us J
down with the unqueflionabl: superiority of
republican virtue, yet I believe it will be
foNnd, that he rerts his argument for French
fraternity, principally" on the idea of their
power. In the fame spirit of jacobin ener
gy, he laughs at the puny policy of bribing
the Indians into peace and good neighbor
hood. No fays he, in the true dile |of a
Carrier, offer a reward for their scalps, and
the work of extermination is quickly and
eheaplyatchieved. To Noyades and repub
lican marriages, the transition is easy, the
Delaware is as convenient as the Loire for
the purpose, and a Caledonian Executioner
as good as a French one.
It is highly probable, that this expatriat
ed Scot, this fugitive from the pillory, " if
better he belong not to the" gibbet, has
fixed hi 3 residence in Pennfylva.nia from a
very natural predile£tion, for the mildness
of her penal code. But let the miscreant
reflett, that if war is really approaching,
" if Jourdan flmuld disembark from New-
Cadle," which he supposes in a dile of ex
ultation, .let him,refle6t, that the condudt of
traitors will then be closely fcrutinjzed.—
That in this cafe, his worthless carcase may
be dedined to swell the m'eafure of Federal
despotism, as that government has not yet
evinced its philanthropy, by the abolition
of the gallows.
Is it not mondrous that such infamous re
vilers (hould meet with' encouragement ? I
anticipate the reply. Have you not your
Porcupine ? I entreat the pardon of a vir
tuous man, for one moment contrading him
with such a knave. I fay a virtuous man,
as no other could discover that noble indig
nation at vice that glows through all his pro
ductions. That he lashes with leverity, mult
be granted, and that he sometimes makes
freer, with cant of Republicanism, than
a partiality for that system may approve ;
yet his censures breathe the honed warmth
of a fatirid, inllend cf the base and ranco
rons malignity of an unprincipled calumina
tor. Gentlemen from an elevated fitnation,
may hurl Billingsgate at their inferiors, and
evince their fans culottifm by the elegance
of their invedtives, they may call rogue and
lcoundrel, and because. they are malignant,
may fancy they are severe.—But candid
men will so far avail themselves of the bleflT
ing of equality, as calmly to enquire, whe
ther the flaming patriot in Congtefs, or the
dtfpifed British fubjeft has the jufter claim
to the opprobrious appellation.
If this Callender may be supposed to
speak the sentiments of the faction, they
are now rejdicing in the profpeft of the dif
ficulties, if not of the subjugation, of their
country. For this wretch has the effronte
ry to fay with an air of fatisfadtion, that
" Mr. Adams may yet hear of a speech from
Barras that (hall make both him and Con
gress tremble."
Could a spark of generality be looked for
in minds which seem bert on felf degrada
tion, one might be tempted to set before
them the example of lord Chatham. While
measures were carrying on againd the colo
nies, that nobleman, it is well known, was
one of their mod flrenuoti3 advocates. He
even went so far as to. fay that " he rejoiced
that America had resided," and yet when
indedendence was declared, he immediately
gave up his opposition, and joined the minis
try in their •> eafures for reducing her to
ftlbmiflion. However unpalatable this might
have been to the Americans, they could not
but refpeft the patriotism of this illudrious '
ttatefman.
But this is a flight far above the wing !
that has been deeped in the'debafing filth of
jacobinism. In that fink of corruption
from whence have ifiued crimes, compared
with whicG tbeeuormitics of patt ages fink
into mere peccadillos, and but for which,
we could have had no idea of the hcjlifh de
pravity of our nature.
But Mr. Adams will riot retire from office,
ye ghattly grir.ners 3t the triumphant viliainy
of the day! Nor wer« it in his power,
would he retradt his deps, to place them in ,
your imagined fafer path of bafentfs and
proftitutioa. He will proceed as,he has be- !
gun, and he will be supported tso, by :iH
that defertfe the name tlf American*. By
those who know how toelliinjte the Ulelfings.
' of trt»e liberty; and good government, and
who unsubdued by the alarming success of
vice and impiety, Hill place their reliance on
a final deftribHtion of eternal jiflh'ce. By
those, who wo<iid rather perilh in a good
cause, than triumph in a bad one ; and who
in a choice of ho.-or or infamy, disdain to
ask,
An noctat vis u!la bono, forur.aque perdit
Opp fita virjUtc lajidiucLqii? vflle
i Sit latii, c: nuuquam fucccilu crefe.it honeftum ?
1 Luc.m.
j A FEDERALIST.
| Ex'rad of a lettrr from Charleston ?. Carolina.
" General Pinckney writes, to his friend colonel
Rutledge, under date of JJth jnn. "Thereisnot
rhi lea'.l probability of an accommodation with
this government; we sue in vain to be hc.'ard, and
; fliaH th»rc art very Ih irtly depart. Yon fhaiLim.
j w liately be inlflrmed what our deftin tion is ; in
I the mean time take cay; of your coalls, guardagaiif
I cm'ijjariti, and prepare for every event."
I ~ *
j The Crescent frigate, fay» the Maflachufetts
I Mer .ury, arrived at Algiers in 29 days, ani that
' the Dey wrs much ptemfed with her.
By this day's Mail.
B 3ST&N. Arril 11.
Capt. Parsons, arrived here «n Tuefdsy even
ing, in 36 days from Liibon, corroborates the in
telligence brought by capt Roundey, of the fail
ing of the Spanish fleet from Cadis ; and add«,
that after chafi T, £ the small squadron of English
ihips, Rationed off that place, feyeral leagues
from (bore, obfervinjj the other division of the
British fleet to have left \v>th a profpetft
of lh«ir forming a jiin<siidn, came about, and re
j turned to Cadiz harbour. Earl St. Vincents then
| renewed hit mooring* in Lilbon, leaving a final!
j force at the mouth of Cadiz, to watch the motions
of Ihe enemy.
NEW-YORK, April 19.
The Amsterdam Packet, capt. Crockat,
is adverlifcd to fail the toth March, and the
j Caledonia, Sands, the 25th, both from
Glasgow for New-York—the latter arrived
there in 27 days from this port.
Capt. Sands, Feb. 27, spake the (hip
Minerva, Coffin, from this port for Dublin.
'The Lighthorfe, Gibfon, from Baltimore
to Amsterdam, hasbeen taken by the French
re-taken by the frigate and bronght
into Plymouth.
The Fanny and Betsey, Shutklock, [A
merican] from Virginia to Cowes, is taken
by the French, and carried into Painpole,
near Morlaix.
DUTCH PRIZE MONEY.
Account of the Dutch Prizes, EsV.
The (hips J £.126,0a0 Admh or Adm. 1-8
The guns 10(3,000 Captains 3—B
Gunpowder 5,000 Lieutenant 1-8
Iron ballast 5,000 Warrant officers 1-8
Head money 15,000 Petty officers 1-8
Crew 2-8
j£\i6i coo
Gapt. Stopford of his majesty's (hip Phae
ton, in his official letter of the 21ft Febru
ary announce* the capture of the French
(hip pr. La Legare ; and, the recapture of
the ship Eliza from Boston to Amsterdam.
PARIS, February 24.
By a letter from Bruflels, of the 3d Ventofe
(Feb. *1) we arc informed that Buonaparte was
accompanied there by General Clark and two
other general officers, lie arrived incognito it
the Hotel d'Angletei re. On the 18th Feb. he
left that plate, and it was reported was to pro
ceed to Raffadt.
The criminal department of la Seine' lately
condemed to death, at one time, iwety two
persons, convicted of highway robbery.
CJenfr.l Buonaparte arrived here .the day be
fore yelterday, alter having passed overall the
coast from B .logne to Antwerp.
Gen. Martina has gorte to Rome, with the ti
tle of commander in chief of the R;:man armies.
We hear from HaVrc, wi'.hin these four days
that the British' appeared to examine the* Bay
very attentively- A ship of the Ine arid seve
ral fi-ig2tt9 calfie very near, and even dropped
their anchors.
Twenty twoinillions have been lent from the
treafui y to pay the arrears due to the troops
and lailors dellinet} for the ipvafionof Britain,
and to ci n:inue the preparations wlvijh are go
ing 011 in different ports. This irresistible »-gu
ment rrtuft prove to all the iinredu'ous, that our
government is firmly resolved to fend Mr. Pitt
a numerous deputation. Almotti cry french
man is ambitious of being admitted into it—so
much, in this country, do we esteem this great
man,
DUBLIN, Anarch i.
> The Earl ef Moira failed for England on Mon
day last.
BELFAST, March 5.
The fubferiptions at Dublin, on Saturday,
amounted tonearly Bc,ocol. of this :bout ?o, 00
is per ann- a sum very great indeed coniidering
the few days that have elapsed since the fab
fcription commenced.
The fubfeription at Cork exceeded, on
Thursday, 90001.
\JThf Articles which follow, <we copy from the
London Star, of the 6th ultimo.
Relative to the entry of the French inro Rome,
the Keriafleur, and all the other papers, contain
the following article :
ARMY OF ITALY.
ROME IS FREE 1
Thr people have resumed their rights of fo
vere[gnty, by proclaiming their independence—
b.y giving to themselves the government of an
cient Rome, and conftitnting the Roman
rcpuV^ic.
The following are fbme of the 1* tails refp fl
ing this memorable event : On f»e 17th Pln
j viofe (Feb. 15J the people repaired in gr.-at
1 crowds to the place Campa Va-ino. It was
j there that with (bouts they proclaimed their
■ liberty, andthat the Roman republic was refuf
c t ited by an ai£t signed I y several thousands of
the citizens. The tree of liberty .was afterwards
planted before the capitol, and in several of the
pubiic placet. At noon_a deputation from the
people, bearing the colours o! the Roman repub
lic, wtnt to findthe general m chief,'Betth er,
in the French camp, under the wj'ls of Rome,
and presented to,him the wilhes of the Roman
people, and aifo their provisional gin ernmt nt.
The cominan ler in chief, after having reeeited
the deputation, )> ocreded immediately fothe
capito!. He arrived ihere. preceded by the mu
; be and by the greniditrs o! I i, nmy,'. and '•!
j lowed by his etat-Hi*ajor, with ot e hundred
y liorLmen frcm every rejimenl sf cava'ry TJit ;
pr<\eeffio:i pafied fhroOgli (be city, in the m'dit
in irrini'T.fc cro\r»i ot people, who were elcc-*
trifled *>y the rfioft holy enthufiafrti. '
Th# sencral pronounced, it the the
i foiiftw/"? rfill'ourfc :
" Mine 3 of Cato, of Pompy, of Bru
tus, os -Cicero, and of Hortenfiua! Re
ceive tlie homage of free Frenchmen, in
that capitol where you have so often defend
ed the rights'of the people, and refle&ed a
lustre 011 the Roman Republic ! The
feendants of the Gauls entei this nugui
place, bearing the olive of peace in their
hands, to re-eft»bli(h the altars of liberty*
eredted by th« firft of the Brutufc's. And
you, Roman people ! who are about to re
lume your legitimate right, fecolleft the
blood which runs in your veins—regard the
monuments of glory by which you are fur-
your ancient grandeur, and
the virtues of your ancestors."
The procession iffterwards motfed onward
amidli repeated acclimations of " fuceefs tff
Liberty !—Long live the French and Ro
man Republiss the tour of the
place, and passed agairt through the city tor
return to camp, accompanied every where
with cries ef joy and gratitude. In fine,
the revolution is effedtea in Rome. The al
tars of liberty have been raised in the capi
tol. Five Consuls are there invested with
the executive power. The other members
of the provisional government are installed
in the place of the papal gove nment. Per
sons and property are every where refpeCled,
and every where they, blef3 the prudent dcr
meanor'of our troops. We here tranferibe
the dispatch by which general Berthier in
forms the dire&ory of this new success :
" H?ad qinrters at thr Capital, 27
Pluviofe, Feb. 15.
" Citizens Dtreftors—The French army
has been at the Capitol to render homage to
the great men of the faireft times of Rome.
The Roman people have declared their re
sumption of those rights which had been
ufurped from them—have demanded from
me the prote&ion of the French Republic
and Rme is free Health, and respect!
(Signed) " ALEX. BERTHIER." ,
Note—An Officer is expelled to bring;
more ample details
GRAVESEND, March
Sailed, (he Herald, Davis, and Galen*
Mackay, for Boston ; Helen Paterfon, for
Virginia ; Walpole Butler, for India : and
Farnhall, Chapman, for Dublin.
Arrived—Atlantic, Brown, from New-
York, and Sarah, Jones, from London, at
Dublin : the Jacklon, Ray, fr <m St. Vioj
cent's at Virginia ; the Peggy, Watson,
trom New-York ; Two Sifters, Gireg ; and
Loyal Oak, , from Li(bon at Cork ;
the Caledonia, Sands from New-York, at
Clyde.
PARIS, March 2.
The aera so long looked for and whick
has for ages been the fubjeft of the prayers
of all Protestants, has at last arrived—(he!
deftruftion of the Papal tyranny —an event
that will be followed by the fall of all fimi'ar
ufurpgtions over the consciences of men*
wherever they may be found.—The arrival
of the French troops at Rome has been
fignalizedby the overthrow of the feeble
Government of the Pope, and the establish
ment of a Republic Fire Confids have
been appointed as the Executive Power,
and the other members of the Provisional
Gevernment have been installed in the Papal
Palace.—Perhaps the enthusiasm which the
Revolution mud excite upon the sacred foil
of ancient liberty, will diltinguiih the insti
tutions of the revived Roman Republic with
the names and offices which flourished in
its better days. Tn(leadoFPrmaryA(Tembiies
we (hall probably hearcf the Comitia, and
Consuls infttad of an Executive Direftory
The modern Romans may thus eflablifh
tadem magi/lrcltuum vecafu/ar, but it remains
to be seen with what spirit the Reman iufti
tutrons are supported, and with what dignity
the men who have so recently escaped from
the ecclefiasrical yoke will maintain the li
berty they have reclaimed.
A considerable body of French troops,
confiding-both «f calvaryand infantry, wer«
daily expened atßctttriiam, and wtre p>rN
ly to be qsartered upon the inhabitants.
Various conjedlures were made refpe&irtg
. the ultimate destination of these troops.—
The Government gives out, that they are
only to (lay at Rotterdam a few days, and
then to march towards the coast, as a part
of the army of England ; the Stadiholder's
party is appreheufive they are intended to
strengthen the hands of the Government,
in order to execute some violent me fures.
The Batavian Directory having sent a
message to the Constituent Aflembly, that
all the citizens hitherto nominated for the
places of ministers, had refufed the appoint
ment, the afiembly paffid a decree, pur-<
porting, " that all those who refufe place*
for which they are appointed, (hall lose the
rights of citizens, and that it (hall be law
ful to bani(h them (he country." In the
fitting of the 19th ult. the assembly referr
ed to the existing committee a note of the
French minister Charles Delacroix, demand
ing, that the decree prohibiting the impor
tation of all forts of English merchandize,
be rigorously maintained and executed.
BREST, Feb. 19.
There are at this moment LuiHmg at
Rochet'ort eleven 74 gun (hips ; to complete
which every exertion is now malting. They
will soon be ready for launching. m
JUST ARRIVED,
Intfre taigGayofo,capt. Bingham, fram St. Martin*
A quantity of SAL T,
ol an exccellent qualify
A few groce Porter Bottle*, new
And twenty c*lk* Vinegar
fOR SALE,
lit qurc of
*Jthu. Hcliinff worth & Co.
' No. u, Little water ftr«et, SoutT.*
' aprii'ao.treasury DEPARTMENT, r J
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the AS of Congress passed on the fmh day of July one thousand Teven hundredand r
DinetT-fcven, entitled " An Aft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the .
AS al j. .j onihe fifteenth day of Decsmbcr, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled a
" An AA to p»flpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A& enti- J,
tied "«n AJi laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the l
firfl day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied andcollec- ,
ted throughout tit United Statesi
For every flcin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or Ihect or piece of Paper, upbn which (hdl be (
written or printed any or either of the inftrumenu er writings lollowing—to wit: j
I) Is Cts. Mis
Any Sertifieate of Naturalization, - - - - i
Any Licence to prattice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodtor, in any Court of the
Umted States, - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the fai'd Officer, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aferefaid, be a fufficient admifiion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, ufider the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted lor military fcrviccs) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any luck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military ferv ices) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottrnjry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or difiharge for or on-accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or la
ther teftainentary inftrufrtient, or for any share or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force ol any statute of other than to the Wife* Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - " " _ n , 2 S
When the.amnunt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - _' , $°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum or I
Ar.y Policy of Insurance or instrument in Rature thereof, on any ship, veflel or
K oods insured from one diltridl to another in the United States, j
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ' - tj
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any /
Court, nther than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the ui'e of the United States or some particular (late, - 5a
Any Bond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifC.ry
note or other note, other thau any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contraiSl, made to or with the United States or any Ihte, or for their
uferefpeilively, - - - - *
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding ene hundred dollars, - to
)f above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ! 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - , , W
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days.,
such bonds or notes iball be fubjea to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid —viz. - - " ,
If above twent? dollars and not exceeding one hundred - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hufidi ed d»llai s, lo
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand dollars, - - "
Any Notes ifTned bvthe banks now efhbliflred, or that may hereafter be eftab
liftn-d within the United States, other than the no'e-s ot such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeaively, according to .
ihe following scale. - - " - - .
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - »
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding oae hundred'dollars, ' s o
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and Hot exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - . - 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - 2
Any Protell or other NotaVial adV, - - - - c
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension.or to obtain or fell War
rants for Lind granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - 2-5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftorfirer duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - " " 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars) 2
For more than two thousand dollars, - - - 3 | I
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported, . J '
If from one diftriA to another dlftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State; - - - 'o
If from the United States to any foreign port or plice, - - 2^
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or eftefts, made' in anjf
cafe required by law, in cases of goods and chattels diftriinpd' for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,)- 513
Ady Certificate of a Share in any InfurariccCompany, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
It above twenty dollars and not exceeding one-hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the'rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
n.
Th'c dutiesaforefaiil will he celleSed and received by the Supervisors, Tnfpeaors and other Officers
of Infpeilicn, in the several Diitrifls Surveye and Divisions the United States, and by such other
persons as shall from t» time be specially appointod and employed by the Supcrvifors of Diflrifis for
tliit purpose.
„ 111.
The Supervifars of the several Diftrias will, prior to the ffrfl day of July ensuing, and as soon ss
may be pra&icable, markorflamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
mem or Paper, with any erf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped Vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeaor, Officer of Infpeaion,
or other puifoa appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftriels.
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year j hove mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. ; Secretary tf the Treasury.
<d* The Members of the Socie
ty of the Sons of St. George, cAablilh'cd at Phila
delphia, for the advice and afliftaneff of EngHfti
men indiftref**, —are re<juefted to attend an Anni
virfary Meeting of the said Society, at the City
Tavern, on Monday, the 23d inft. at a o'clock
iit the afternoon.
GEO. DAVIS, Secretary.
Dinner to be on the table precisely at tour
o'clock- april 14
PROPOSAL,
For Publijbing by Subscription,
AN
E N I R Y
INTO THE
ORIGII' OF EPTDEMIC DISEASES.
r-pHE Letters to Dr. Currie, which 1 publilhed
A last autumn, led me to an invefligation of
the origin and phenomena of peftihmial diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St -tes.
In the profccution of the fubje&, new fa&s and
principles continually opened to my view, and fi
nally deternfincd nve to trace back the history of
such dife2fes as far as the records of history ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Gam
bridge and Boston, with a view to obtaih all the
material fa&s which can illustrate the fuhje<st,and
I have nearly colledcd all the materials for the
proposed work.
The fails eolL<Sled will enable me to demon
strate that many of the common ideas refpe&mg
pestilential epidemics, are unfounded or extreme
ly iucorreA ; and this in eonfcquence of rr.edicnl
writers cenfidering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as conne&ed with other epide
mics or other phenomena of nature in various
parts of the world. "The fails I have collc&ed
'lead to certain dedu&ions which are furprifingto
myfelf, and which will probably be new to many
others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
and perplexing YubjeA, as well as on natural phi
losophy.
The proposed work will make a full Gzed o&a
---vo volume ; and executed well on fine papar, can
not be afforded at lels than two dollars, bound,
with the usual allowance to book-feller?. As th«
compilation will cost not only great labor,but con
(iderable expence, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fuhferibers. The book will be rca
for fubicriber fearly iu the coming summer.and
the holders of propofaU will be good enough to
return them to No. 40, Piue-ftreet, by the firitof
May#
SußsceirTioNs received by the bock-fellers in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Tlartford, New London, Providence, Botton, Bal
tjnorc and Charleftofc.
NOAH WEBSTER, ;UN.
Frefli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Salt, bv
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND R7
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hi* Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afTorted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas, i
whale-bone dicks-.
They have alfu Ftr Sale,
Ell wide Perfiar.s, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes.
march 8. $ j
Now Opening,
At Wi l l 1 a m M'L a ws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Fiftols, direct from the Manufa&urers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou.h Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard, Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January tub, 1798. .
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
fallowing arrangement is made by the
-L Taid commiflioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
Diftriil No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; tf>
be under the Hiperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnnt ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of' William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperititendance of Jol'eph Claypoo'e.
4. From the earth fide of Spruce street, to the
fauth fide of Ce;lar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts,
gjT When pumps are out of order south of
High-street, pleaft apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner cf South and Fifth-ftreets, ©r Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth* near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
I.igh street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in SaflTafras
ftrcct, between Sixth and S«vcnth-ftr?ets.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!.*
March 30 th. 1798. j"j
Public Notice is hereby given, I
THAI' byanadlof Congrcli passed on th* j
19th day of March, 11798, the following j
alterations and amendments have- been made to
the palled on the 6th day of July 179;, en
titled "Ao ail laying duties on lfainped vcl- 4
" lum, parchment and paper." ;
'• i
The stamp duties 011 debentures or cert ill- ;
cates for the drawback of Culloms or duties on <
Imports are repealed.-
| - 11.
A djfeount at the rate of ftven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or InfpeiVors refpeflively, to any perlons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be itamped, any 1
quantities 0/ Vellum, Parchment it Paper, upon 1
which the duties lhall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards. .
ni.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold at
the rates prefe'ribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expenle on account of the
price of Paper ; but tor ftatnped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each Ikin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each {kin of
Vetium of medium size, which may be furnlffc
ed at the expense of the TJnited States and pro
portionally for any lefier quantity.
Given under tny hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyetr abovementiofed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS THEREBY GIVEN,
~ HATpropolals Will be received at the Office of
X the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the iJfth day of July next enfuiitg, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthc firft day ol
Odobcr 1798, to the thirtieth »day of September
1799, both inclufive, at the places and within
the diftridt hereafter mentioned,viz. At Ofwcgo;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittsburgh ; at Le Beuf ; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville ;at Picque Town and
Laramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance j 1 at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Kncx and Qua- i
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Mafiac; at any
place or places on the east- fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
•on the Ulii.ois River ; at any pl'aie or places on the
craft fide of the MiflJlfippi River below the mouth
of tile Rivor Ohio to the foUtfietri boundary of'the
State of Kentucky, and within the said StaU ; at
Knoxvilk, Teltico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of TennelTee; at anyplace or
places on theesft fide of the River M'ifiifiippi, be
lo^ T the ftutliern boundary* of rile State of Tehnef
fee, to the fouthefn boundary of the United States.
» -If supplies shall be required, for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
lhajl be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the polls before recited, as may be* agreed" on be
!to T een tfie tTifited States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to'confitt of th*fol- i
lbwirig articles, viz.
One pound, of bread or flour
One pound'of beef or twelve ounces of p'ork t
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy of whtf-"J
fcf, one quart of Salt, two quarts C hu * j rscl
of vinegar, two pounds of foap,f rat j ons
on a pound of candles )
The r-ationsare to be furnifhed in such quantities,
as that there fball at all times during the said term,
be fiifficieitt for the consumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other poftss for the-term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholesome prefvi
fiofis, if the fame (hall be required. It is t® be un
derftbod', that tHe contractor is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of iffuiilg the supplies to the troops
\ at each poll, and that all lofTes fisftained by the de
• predations of an enemy, or by means of the
• troops of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles'captured or destroyed, on
thefdepofitions of two or more persons of credita
s ble characters, and the certificate of a commission
- I ed officer, ascertaining the circuratlances of the
r los- and the amount of the articles tor which com
- pen fat ion (hall be claimed.
, The priviledge is reserved to tile United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhed under the proposed contrail, fihall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the now ia force have
been consumed. ,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury,
march 27. . , .Sawtrrfy
> Batkenridge—lor 1-ale
IT consists of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
'' Karl of Sterling). It may be conveniently diiided
into five farms, four of which aTc bounded on the
Eaftby theriVerPafaiek.
Ther* ace on it a number of buildings, forming
r afquare of pearly three acres—The dwellinghoufe
' is a- very convenient one.andja fmaNeapence would
put it in complete repair.
_ , The-orchard consists df IJOO firwbeanhg engraf
n ed Apple Trees—and there is on other of said
; trail near 300 other Apple Trees—avalfo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
beft and mod delicious kinds,
i Also, a great number of beantiful Eitotics and
Forest Tress*, that add to tha beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
- from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : iodo.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
> To favc trouble, the price is five pound' pr. acre
in calh, on delivery or the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 7?, Chefnut nreet.
February 2. eodtf
t Ran away from the fubferiber*
- on the T4th in(>. two indented Irish Servant Men
r Thomas WGuire, about 25 years ?f age, and J
feet S inches high, robust, stout, and well made,
short black hair, remarkaM« for i fear on one of
- his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from sny
service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder disposition, and more flen
e der make, short brown hair ; their working appa
e relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarte
brown linen, check and brown linen shirts, grey
yarn Sockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
e and rufTett leather lhoes; they have other cloathing
0 which altogether givss them the appearance of sea
- faring men, but have been brought up to the farm
-0 ing business ; no doubt will have forged pallet and
e change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the poll road to Philapelphia, I.pur
-0 chafed rfiem the last fall of capt. Raltins, in Balti
f more. I will give Fifty Dollars for them
so that I get them, and will pay all reasonable
e charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR iJRYAN,
if Head of Wye, Talbot County—match 7.
Ie March 14. 3-* w 3 w __
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
5- A few chests of excellent quality, for fa!e, cor
ner of Stcood and Pine (Ircets. Dec 26—cotfj;
The Annual Election
FOR Dire&ors and a Treasurer of the Library |
Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the I
Library, in Fifth street, on M«nday, the 7th of
May next, at three o'cloi* in the aftf rcoon, when
the Treasurer will attend to receive the annual
payment*.
As there are fevcral (hares on which fine are
due, the owners of them,, or their repref«ntatives,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeabiy to the laws of the company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
By ord-rof th« Dirc<Slors,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Stfcretary.
April 7 3 aw
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor and dilliefied
presbyterian ministers and the poor and dillreflcd
widows and childrm of presbyterian mi-'ifiers,'
that a meeting uffaid corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian ch'irch in the
city of Philadelphia, sot the dispatch of all such
business as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GIIEEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawt 16m
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. Ith, 1798.
THE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are ta meet on the seventh day of next
Mont-h, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
tleifl twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
enfuingyear
Bv order of a board of Managers.
;SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry.
April 7 f eitE
Valuable Stands for Butinels.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,*
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-fireet, be
tween Second and Third streets :—one containing
eighteen feet, and the other feventecn feet, more or
e is, on the said street, and-both extending, the
lf a me breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers So and 82).
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well builft
three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a- floor
and a"' front of eightetfn feet on said allay.
This property is clear of grcnnd-r«nt, and an
indisputable title will be given 10 the purchaser.
The three Houfowill be fold Separately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may b« known on applica
tion to
ZACHAKIAH POULSON, yvv.
Ho. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library,
march aj. fefiSw
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SAIE,
A LOT OF (GROUND, fituateon the east fide
of the main street, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for'y yards below Captain
Furbee's Tavern, containing in front on said street
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eastward
twelve perches, together with the buildings thcre
on ere*fted, which consist of a good brick house,
two stories high, Well finifted, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
■ paflage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and" good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as akitcheft'; a back brick- building wkh two rooms
" above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of rhis'buildmg communi
cate above flairs with the passage of the house :
A brick Onoke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and'a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpeA as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
The terrm will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camdten, neyr Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eiphth-ftreet, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
( maroh 27. tus4W
Salilfeury Eltate.
THE Subscriber, pmpofing to contrad: his busi
ness, offers this EfUte for laic, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift ,
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all !
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Work s*conne6t- ]
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpofc of catting Cannon
for this Suto. —There are about two tfioufand acres
of Land, one Half of which i s under wood, the other
v«rv fine arable Land, prod\ieirt£ rhe best Hay and !
8 Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
: fully provei the excellency of the metal, which is
1 luperior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
: to any in div world ; for not'one of fiKty-nmegnns
lately made, although some of rhe 24 were bored
r into pounders, hare tailr don proving. The firu
» ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
I ntanufaflure, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Gonne6Bcut>»nd' only 30 miles from fsveraMand*
on the Hod-Ton's t iver, and having every advan-
I tage that can result from a plenty of water ifTuing
t from a large natural pond, very near the Furnate,
and whith may be converted into a-varicty of other
; ufefol puHpofes. The purchaser can brraceommodat
ed wiih all theftocka«»d utensils, and hav« pofTelfion
' on or before the firft of J,ur»e next r and preparation
* may be made in the mean time for going into BTaft im
-5 meAatcly thereafter, for every par twill be deliverod
• in.good order, with forne coai, o»e> <t<». See. For
t terms, ipply to Mr. lofeph Anthonv, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentawves
» in Congress ftfr this State ; Mr, David Wateiman, on
- thepremifesi or totheproprietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
. Dee. t. 3awtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
» FOR SAL a,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, form r'.y the residence of
General John CadwaUder, lituate on SalTafras Ri
f ver, in Kent county, Maryland—contaioing a
bout 190 a acres of prime LAND, upwards-of 500
. 0 f which are in The Buildings are all e«-
1 cellent, and oonfift of a hindfome Dwelling House,
. two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
. horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two OverseerS houfea, two ran-
Y ges of two ftbry bnildim;s for Negrncs (one of
i them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
j' house , &c. 3cc.—The whole Estate being nearly
. surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
. and has a good Shad and Herring fifheiy. It is
i conveniently fit dated for both the Philadelphia and
j 'Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
. is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards 011
j the ptemifes; also, avatittyof excellent fruits of
c different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
„ The whole will b« fid together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which rhe buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on laid Farm, consisting ol Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofud of. For further
- patticularfe apply to Georoe Hastincs, on the
, premises, or tothefubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvs.
- February 14. saw(»v
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBES, No. 31, PcMl-ftrtet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhuras Charconai Dore*-
li'me Cloth T»ojib»
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Check*
Maharagonges PaMia Hkfs.
Ginghams Malmuldo.
Guzzenas Bandanooe*
Gurrahs Siflerfoy |
Piniafcoe* Choppa RomaU
Salgatchjrs , Sooly do.
Gillie Romaic- Persians of various col#
Mack Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
,e,ooo lb. PEPPER.
Witlings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fpurth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Ilkfs. o£ ele»
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf •
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, front
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in cases '
White wine in half casts
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boxes and ba&etf
Lunelle ">
Sauterne ( w ; Be , |* n C afe..
Macarty, and f
Medoc J
Thomas Mutgatroyd,
No. ri, Walnut Strett.
WHO HAS 6H HAND,
Bourdrlux Brandy in pipes T Intit'ed
Iriih market ") .... „ ■ > to
Medoc, and Sauterne J 5 drawback
Sherry wine ill pipesand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
fwo trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bulhcls 1 ivefpuol Salt.
inarch 19 mW&ftf
"""""" LTND I N G
From an board the Schooner Ranger, from
Jacquemil,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Stilt by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 117 Chefnut-flreet.
Who has remaining on hand 6,c00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, of a fupenor quality.
March 15. d6t
Red Clover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in jSipc#, half
pipes and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And', Window Glass—all of which will be fold
on very reasonable terms, by J
John Craig,
march I wstf No. la, Doclc Street.
NOTIC li.~~
ALL persons who ha-ve any demands against
th» estate of Wiluam Flketwoob,, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant,de
*ceafe<i, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediato
payment, to
GEO. DOBS ON, \ . .. ,
No. 25, So. Third-street. J Admlm fi r r
January 4. dtf
Just Fublifhed,
And to be had at the Book-Ocres of MefTrs. Dob
son , Campbell, Young and Okmro d,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On<the Causes and Cure of Remitting tr Bilious
Fevers,
To rvbicb is annexed, V
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions pra&ictf of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and refledions relative to
the SynocLus iSleroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
ha? occasioned so much distress and mortality*
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United l States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Phyiicmn« p
and Member of the American Philotophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§
JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M« Carey irß High-street
T. Dbbfon, 41 South Second-Areet and the
Bookfellfers generally,
(Price 5-Sths of a Dollar )
BEACON HILL,
A Local Posm> biftoric ami deforiptiftt i
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS or BOOK T.
Alluflon to the surrounding Profpecl- Invocation
to the Haver and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fi&icn discarded—Dedication to Waft,
ingfon—The /Lftioh opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—Ther Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfsnitication of Frrttfne and Fame—
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of thu Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britifli Army—lts Departure—A ppointmoit of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cba
ra«sler of the Columbian Soldies—The Peer's
prophetic Apofcfophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the-World,
march 30. 5
FOR SALt,
AIX that elegant three flory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south weft comer of Fourth and Prune streets,
• containing in front on Fourth lireet 33 l'cat, and
in lepgth on Pruue ftre.t 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two (lory brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on thi' well iide bf Fourth lireet and ad
joining th. above, containing in breadth en Fourth
lireet 75 feet 6 inches, and ir. depth 98 f«et on the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
weil fid; of Fourth lireet and adjoining the last
dtferibed lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
lireet 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide 101 feet, thence running southward II feet 6
inches, thence further well ward 11 feet, thence
Hill further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth tlrrfet, with the
common use of the said four seer alley leading in
to Prunu lireet The whole will be iold together
if more agreeable to the purchaser.
For terms, empire of the fubfcriUer, at his of
fice, No. I»4 S6uth Fourth lireet.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
December 2®. §