<§ alette UIUtCtJ Jstates, A»DPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Number 178 3. J
FOR SALE,
THE KIW AND AtIIAKUBLB £ AST SAILINC
S C NOON F R
N,
Jo«M J. WuiBBIE, Mafltr,
jyyjyStl -NOW lying at Jelle Sc H.bert
Wain's wharf—her length is 69 feet 6 inches—
breadth, *0 feet, 1 inchei, depth 6 feet i inches,
mcafures I*4 65-95 l° n »> al >d it completely piere'd
•ad fitted to carry 14 pins. For terms apply to
CEOXGE PLUMSTED,
No 166, Sjuth Front Street.
Likcw/e frtm on board said Sxhooncr,
A Quantity of Peas.
Kiln dryed Ktn'ian Meal In barrels, and 439 bar
rels of Ship Stuff.
ALSO,
120 Tierces of Rice,
Landing from on board the Schooner Elizabeth,
Captain Hatch.
m y 25 4'^iw
For Cape Francois,
tilfijft NORTH AMERICA,
Barnes, Mailer %
• in eight or ten days.—For
freight or paflu»g>e apply %o
Prutt & Kintzjng,
No. 9?, North Water, near Race Street.
WHO HA V E FOR s A L. E,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Crust Cht efe, Tumblers, Tiekltinburghs, HelTens,
Brown &c. &c.
may 2$ eod6t
~ FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably fail failing Brio
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jfrf.miah Tatsm, mailer.
,C]lß will f*il in ten days —fo r
frpght or paffoge, apply to JAMES YARD.
H'alnutjlmt Wharf.
may 13 <liot
, For Sale, or Charter,
J—*s THE ARMED SHIP
B ELV/D E R E,
Jonathan Reynolds, Majlcr,
ING at JefTcand Robert Waln's
! sefefi^: vv j l arf, burthen 256.t0n5, built at
New-York, ty Mr, Cheefeman in of live
01k, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard roiled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and faft failing Ibip, is well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
a few i«yj at a very little expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 16, North Front
ilreet, to
RTCfyRD D. ARB Elf.
WHO HAS »OR S A LEON BOARD SAID SHItP
10 Ton* dry white lead
5 Tons of (hot
13 TonsrolleJ sheet lead x
20 Bales English Duck, afTorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
£jT The Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wedncfday next, will take freight for
London. v
may 19 §
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo, capt. Bingham,from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an -xccdlent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new »
And twenty calks Vinegar
■*?"> for mls,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingjworth & Co.
No. 22, Littie Water street, South,
april 20. §
FOR SALE. .
SJ.'} HavannaK s °e ar
200 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at WilHngsaad Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Active, Will
iam Williams, master.
The said Brigfor sale,
N-* And may take in immedi
ately after discharged. 1
Apply to
Jehu Hailing]'worth Iff Co.
march 30. §
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street j>ear Secoml-ftreet,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handlome
Dining Kqois over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a raore particular description iscon
fi'dered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cafti,
pne third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG, >
No. 12 Dock-Jlreet.
may 16 §
CONTRACTS.
THE Managers of the alms house and houle
of employment, in this city, will receive
<propoia!s in writing, to be left at said house on
4)r before Wednesday the 3«th inftanr, from any
jjerfon or person% willing to contradl for fur
mifhing Fre(h Provisions, fay. Beef, Mutton and
Vral, for the use of the'poor in said houses for
one year: The contrail to commence on the firft
of June enf'ing ; the meat to be frefh and mar
ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind alternately, or in fides or carcal'es, as re
quired.— AJfo, forfupplying milk for the use
of the fawl poor. The milk to be newj sweet,
tnd unadultera ed, and the fuppfy to commence
•n the 14th of June ensuing.
By order of the Board cf Managers,
JOHN CUMMIMOS, Steward.
may 23 rtti t
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcnnfylva
nia, for futh Plan of a Barking House,
accompanied with fidions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Dire&ors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and- to be so planned*ai to admit of its
being made fire proof. It is requeued that the
plans may L e fenr cothe C&fbier of the Bank, pre
vious to the firft-of, June next.
April 19. tutMsiJe
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, MAT 29, 1798
The Germantown & Reading
Turnpike Ro^d
THE Commiflioiiers appointed bythea<slof
General Aflembly, entitled, *' an dft to
enable the Governor of this commonwealth to
incorporate a company for making an artificial
road fr6tn the city of Philadelphia through Ger
mantown &c. Give Notice, tnat the books are
now opened at the City Hall for the purpofeof
receiving subscription* under the said a<£\ agree
able to their former advertisement and will be
continued open from the hours of ten in the
morning till two in the afternoon on the 29th
and 10th instant.
City-Hall, Monday )
fitb May, T798. > » .it
By virtue of a dec-ecof ihe noi»or«t»ic tne high dour 1
of Chancery of M>ryUnd, the fubferiber will feil
at Public Sale, on the premises, on Monday, the
9 5'h of June next at 11 o'clock in *he forenoon,
HpHAJ valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
J No. 53, %ad part of No. 54, la e the property
of Nicholas Sluby, tnerchsnt of ihiscity, situated on
Thames-ftrect, in that part of Baltimore ciiy, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, witb all
the buildings and impiovemcnts thereon. There are
ere&ed on this valuable property, several large and
commodious bii k Wareh )ufe», capable of contain
ing from T5 to so,coo barrels of (lour, with a frame
shed adjourning thereto, fufficiently capacious to
hold loco hogshead of Tobacco; in perfes fafety
from "the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deeprtt * ater in this harbor, an
extenfiye and well conftrg&cd wharf,bounding on tfce
WEier 000 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing ships of any burthen at the lowest tides. From
the many advantages thi* property is known to possess,
it is elleemcd equal if : ot superior, in point of com.
metcial benefit, to any in this city, and mad be a de
fuablc ob e6l to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unneceflary to fay more on this fuls
j«6f, as those intending to purcha'e, will haVe an op
portunity of viewing the premises .previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with fecunty to thetruffec for the payment of
ore half the purchase money with interest, within
three months, and the residue with interest, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
mat(*B dt2sthje.
Colle&or's Office,
Philadelphia, May 15, 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Cnftom-Heufir, oft Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain in th* Custom-House
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
( TD) 202 one bale girthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg i?rrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
[D] 161 2 three bales girthweb
[VH] 200 one ditto ditto
J N] 200 one ditto ditto
( No m*rk) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle Hates
FLSJ one small box locks dtiiJ
WTIT be fold for Caffi,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
tfce eleventh day of June next, at the Mar
chants'Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OP
Valuable patented LAND,
In the couflty of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common j of the town of Brunfwick.
4 rooo acres on the Great Satilla ajid on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, JohnHowell, 8c FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, aojoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000,' acre« ia Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar Rivvr, adjoining lands ol Jac«b War
rick, Daniel JohnDilley, including
3000 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, on the waters of fiid river, and
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 50CO acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracls of one
thousand acre 9 each, the others in (he quantities
and trails abov« defcribcd.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
pnrpofe on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut ttreet.
B. R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. /Its
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rhe firft Friday in June next, pan of a trail of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester coun
ty, and all the reft of the Real F.ftate of Jofbua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other hfelf; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security for the fame, on in
terclf, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
faia-Jofhua Townfend are alfb again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 22d
day of December last, that being the day of the
firft file.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trustee.
may 14. §^w
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuftomrd to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two years. For fu- ther parti
culars, apply at the ofiire this Gazette,
may IJ. §
CON G R E S S.
f HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
5
> Friday, May u.f f
| (Concluded from yefler djy't Gazette. J
Mr. Gallatin fa.d, it was true, tliat lie
e had connived the idea of danger from an in
s valion from Europe, during the prflent sea
. lon, was given up. He had drawn this con
. clufion from the manner in which gentlemen
c had (upported their opinion again ft his morion
! to Itrikeout the firlt fedtion. It was then da
ted by tiie gentleman trum South Carolina and
others, that there existed danger in a certain
quarter. The gentleman fron! South Carolina
■ t even pointed out the very individual spot at
I i which the enemy was to land, the route they
e | were to take, and almolt every encampment
; they were to make until they got to the walls
, j of (Jharlefton. When he (aid he thought the
t' idea of danger from Europe was given up,
' he did not forget what fell from the Speaker
' 1 yesterday; but having heard that Gentleman
i calling the army of England, the army of America,
j i and at the fame tune speaking of falling
_, mountains, unfurled banners See. he could not
. conceive him to be serious in any thing he
, said, and he really had considered the whole
yj of his fpeec'h as merely allegorical. But the
y committee were now told by the gentleman
i j from S. Carolina that there is a probability
c ! of an invasion from
" j there was a pqMUity, he would not have said
1 j it was impollible, as very improbable events
'•! fometinies take place ; but when the house
" legislated, they ought not to do it us on pofiibi*
e lilies, but upon probabilities, and all that had
. been said in favour of this bill that was pro
. bable, was what had been advanced as to the
e dangerto be apprehended fqom the Weft lu
dies. Every thing else he looked upon as be
> yond probability.
* Mr. G. desired to know upon what this pro
' bability of an invasion from Enrope lay ? He
n willied, inltead ot faying that the armament
now preparing in France oftonfibly agtnnit En
gland, might come against this country, to
fay why they think so J The argument of the
- gentleman from S. Carolina was of a lingular
nature ; it amounted to this. The French
Directory are extremely wife and have the
bell information relative to England: but it is
. itapoflibleitofucceedin an invasion against this
country, therefore ilifi armament must be
intended against this country. He must
e own he was not (truck very forcibly by
such reafoninz. As to the impoflibility
of invading England, he knew nothing of
f it. He believed the success of the event
would depend upon the reli/tance made in
England; and it appeared to him, from what
was taking place there, that they do believe
in the poiTibility of an invasion, and are deter
mined to refilt any attack which may be made.
But if the principle laid down by the gentle
man frein S. Carolina, that the Government
8 of France is wife, and have good information,
is admitted, they will have the wisdom and
information net to attempt iaipradticabilitics,
but apply their means to effect objects which
will b» of service to them. But an invasion of
this country could neither be u(eful to the
men in power in that government nor produce
the lealt advantage to the Nation. The re
fourees of that Nation, powerful as it is,
do not consist of money, or a great navy, by
. which to carry on projects at a diftance'from
home. They have men in great abundance,
and the Government can lay hold of any thing
they pteafe to support them. But we know j
the' lituation ot their finances ; we know they
have called for a forced loan in support of tjie
intended invasion against England. They
wanted only 40 millions of French livres for
• that important objeift, not quite two millions
: sterling, and were not able to raise it in the
usual way. We know that they wanted mo
ney from us, and from Hamburg, for the
laine purpose, and have in fatt been trying to
raise money every w here on the credit of their
'Dutch refcriptions. Thus (ituated, Mr. G.
alked how gentlemen ceuld imagine that the
Frenchcould undertake to invade a country
like this at 1200 leagues distance from hwme f
No Nation who had not the moltextenfive re
sources, both as to money and (hipping, could
undertake such a project, and it was well
known that France is greatly deficient in both,
and therefore cannot come with a fleet here.
But luppoling France was able to make an
attack on this country, he wifiied to know
what was to be her objeft > Was it to (u'bju
gate our country? Suppose they had it in
their power to fend over and land here an ar
my ot-40,000, or of 100,000 men, could it
come into the head of any man, that they
wouldbeablitofubjugate this country ? Sup
pose they were to conquer a part—polfelting
different manners, and speaking a different
language from the people here, they could
not expett to' become incorporated with'the
citizens of this country and must finally be
expelled. Indeed, it appeared to him thac this
invasion by the army of England was one of
the molt extraordinary ideas that ever enter
tered the head of a Politician or Statesman.
When it must be fecn that England isthe ob
ject of this armament, as the only enemy
France has left; when it must be evident that
no greater ohjeit can be contemplated by that
country than'either deltroying their rival, or
by ptoducing a revolution in the British Go
vernment, to secure the (lability of theirown :
to tell the committee, that notwithstanding
nvery appeaiaiice to the contrary, these pre
parations were probably intended against this
country, was, to use the language (ometimes
adopted by the Gentleman from S. Carolina,
to presume too tar on the credulity of this
Houle.
But is there any reason, from any thing
which has taken country and
France, to believe that such a design really
exists in.the French Councils i It had been
laid that that Government had threatened in
withfuchancvent. Hewjlhed to know uswhat
manner, and how the threat had been made i
The only threat which he recollected was the
threat made by one of those agents (X, Y or
Z he did not recollect which) who said to our
Coinmiflioners, " if you do not agree to such
and such propositions, we will do—«hat f
Send an army to invade you i Nofome fri
gates (hall be sent from the Weft Indies to ra
vage your coalts." With what design was
this threat made ?
Mr. Harper afked.whetherornotthe fate
of Venice was mentioned ?
Mr. G laid, if the gentleman would fuf
fer him to proceed, he would notice what was
laid respeCting Venice also. The design of
these agents wits evidently to frighte* our
CommifltonersaDd toestwrmoney from the ill.
But do thev threaten them with danger which
were improbable f No; they knew if rliey
had done so, oifr Coinmiflioners, would have
laughed at them. They therefore, spoke of
things which partook of probability.
But those agents reminded our conitniffion
er» of the fate of Venice. And are gentlemen
afraid of this country experiencing the fate ot
Venice? Did not thele agent?, in the fame
breath that they spoke of the fatfe of Venice,
acknowledge that tt was impollible to subjugate
this country. Mr. G. quoted that part of
the dispatches where these agents asserted to
the truth of that position as dated by our en
voys.
But it appeared to him that the gentleman
from S. Carolina had himfelf this day, at the
fame time that be declared the danger exilt
ed, concluded that the danger could not exist
for this year. Forif he apprehended any por
tion of the army of England would come a
gainit this country this season, he certainly
would wi(h for a larger number of men than
10,000 ; he wouldjiave agreed with his col
league (Mr. Sitgreaves) and voted for 20,000.
But he (ays he will not do this, as he does
believe any danger will arise before the
next feflion of Congrsfs, which will require
a larger number of men to oppose them than
10,000. Believing with the gentleman from
S. Carolina, that no danger was to be expected
from Europe, Mr. G. said, hewilhcdto re
duce the numocf to 5,000.
Mr. G. said, he did not intend'to have said
any thing upon this amendment; but as the
gentleman from S.Carolina had dwelt much
upon the danger to be apprehended from an
invasion from the army of England, he could
not refrain from making a few remarks upon
that ("object. He Could not imagine how such
an idea could have entered into the head of
any gentleman ; but since fonie had brought
their minds into such a (late as to apprehend
luch an event, he did not expedt that any
thing which he could fay, would operate up
on thern ; but he expected they must vote in
favor of railing the whole of the 20,000 men
at ence. But as to those who could fatisfy
themfelyfcs that the only danger to be appre
hended was from the Weft Indies, he thought
it must be evident that 5,000 men would be
fufficient for every puYpofe to which
they could be ufefully employed. And it
would be perfectly clear that they would on
ly cod the United States halt the money.
There were also (ome gentlemen in the
house, Mr. G. said, who, though they did not
expedt an attack from France at present, ex
pected it whenever a peace (hall take place
with England j he had himfelf no (uch ap
prehenlion, as he believed that system of plun
der which was occasioned by war would
end with war, and as no particular vengeance
had been threatened against us, although he
did not deny some personal resentment exist
ed between the Executive of that country
and that of America ; but this being confin
ed to a few individuals was lets dangerous in
its nature, and would cease whenever tlje
men were out of power. But to those gentle
men, however, he would remark, that the
less money we expend in the mean time, the
better we (hall be prepared to meet danger
when it comes.
Mr. Dennis said, he was one of those who
thought, that if that house were to aft more,
and talk less, it would be mere honourable to
themselves, and profitable to the country.
Under this impreflion, he had fat with pati
ence to hear gentlemen debate the present
fubjedt, without intending to take any part
in the difcuflion. He had heard the gentle
man from Pennsylvania, day after day, admi
nister powerful opiates to the committee j
but he now begun to think it was time to ra
lift theni, and he rofe> for that purpose.
Were he as confident as the gentleman from
Pennlylvania appears to be, that we (hould
be fully adequate to repel every to« who
might attack 11s, without railing any troops
for Otir defence until we lliall 1*- engaged in
atttial War; if he ccuild be fatisfied to have
fonle of the Hates, ravaged and plundered,
and perhaps tnany parts of the United States
aeluged with blood, before we'could collect
dforse to repel the enemy, he might acquiesce
in the dodtrine of that gentleman. But he
did not agrtfe with him, that becaufevve can
not effeftnally guard every part of our coast,
that we ought not to guard any part of it; anv
more than he could agree with him in a simi
lar opinion withrefpect to the defence of our
commerce, but that if we could not profeit
it eftedtu»lly, we ought to proteit it as far as
we are able.
Mr. D. believed this country was in much
greater dange/ - of invasion than the gentleman
from Pennsylvania was willing to allow. He
would not ablolutely fay we (hould be invad
ed, but he thought such an event very proba
ble. We know, said he, that th»re is a lafge
body of troops collected on the fhortjs of
France and a number of (hips of the line, and
other velfels, adequate to the transportation of
a large number of troops. We are told, said
l.e, that these men, and these vessels, are in
tended for the invasion of England. But was
it not known that the -French were pursuing
two systems ? They have not only the in
-vafion, and consequent subjugation of England
in view ; they have another system, in which
he believed they placed more confidence than
in the other, which was, to cut off the re
fourcfes of the British Nation, and how could
they more effectually do this than by getting
such an influence in this country as (hould cut
off her trade to it ?
To wound Great Britain through flttr (ides,
Mr. D. (aid, had been the object of the de
predations which France had for a long time
committeduponourcommerce. The relources
of England were got chietty from this eountry
and the Weft Indies; and though the force
which the French had collected on their
fliores might not be fufficient for an attack
upon England, it might be fufficient for an in
vasion and subjugation of this country, and
by that means, effetfually cut off therefources
of Great Britain. And what Mr. D. asked,
was to prevent this measure from taking
place ? All agree that the British uuvy might"
if that Nation were dilpofed to do so, prevent
it. But are gentlemen wilting to depend upon
ths British Navy for protection—a Nation,
whom, it is frequently (aid, would rejoice In
our deli ruction—a J' ation, whole animolities
against 11s are very great—and who, according
to the dottrine of lome gentlemen, consider
us as the greatefl rivals ? He believed fer
himfelf, that we ought not to repose any con
fidence in Great Britain, or any other Nation.
He believed the time was arrived when we
ought to take meat'nres for us.v owe feenritv.
[Volume XIII.
I If, said Mr. 1). (here be any difpolitioii o'H
the part oflhc Britilh Nation to conciliate th«
affeotions of this Nation, with a view of draw
ing us into an alliance with her, he asked in
what way it might be mofl effectually done f
If Great Britain calculated on our triendfhip*
it mult be in proportion to our enmity wit|i
France, and (be will be glad to do any thing,
or fuffer anything to be done, which shall
have a tendency to produce that enmity ?
And how could this be 11101# effectually 'done
. than by fufferinga few French (liips, with 3<J
or 40,000 men, to come out and invade this
country > Such an event could not fail to ex
cite thebittered animofityagainfl the French
Nation, which would beequivalent toafriend 7
ship for Britain.
If he thought with the gentleman fronj
Pennsylvania, that an invafiou from Europe
was a mere bugbear, of phantom, and that it
was raised merely with a view of getting a
(landing army, to increase the power of the
Executive, he should not have made use of
many of the arguments which that gentleman
had used. He had not been sparing in his
descriptions of the horrors and calamities of
war; he hacf painted them in the moll fin
king colours. And why has he done tjiis ?
IF there be no danger of invasion—is there be
no danger of our commercial resources being
deranged—if small predatory incursions can
only be expected upon our territory—if our
duties on impolt« and tonnage will encreale,
no direCt tax can be necessary to (iipport the
deficiencies of our revenue, and all the hide
ous pictures which the gentleman has drawn
about the calamities of war, mult banilh into
air. It was because he apprehended an inva
sion, and a coufequent diminution of our re
sources, that he (Mr. D.) had fupporfed
measures of defence, and bt' revenue to meet
the expence of those measures. Was it in
order to«prevent little predatory incuriious,
which our militia woufc be able to repel, that
we have so long forborn to protect our com
mercial rights f Was it for this that we were
told, we had better submit to partial lodes—
that we had better give up the whole of our
commerce, than provoke a war? Was this
the fort of war of which the gentleman was
so much afraid f Was thit the danger, to a
void which, it was propoled to give up the
whole of our carrying trade to a nation againlt
which gestlenien have so great an enmity ?
Certainly not.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania tells
the committee, that though he is against rai
sing an army at present, if the territory should
be invaded, he would then not be for raising
a partial army, but an army adequate to our
1 defence. The gentleman may believe this
lat present; he would not fay that he had not
! confidence in thedeclaration ; but, from his
experience of that gentleman's mode of creep
ing out of any promises which he had made,
induced him to believe, that if a foreign army
was in the heart of the country, he would
(till find some arguments again® raising a
(landing army.
Gentlemen continually infiftupon it, that
unorganized and undisciplined as they are,
our militia are able to defend us againlt the
mod powerful army that can be brought a
gainst us. So great is their objection to a
standing army, and their apprehenfionof Ex
ecutive patronage, that they are afraid of e
v;n raising 10,000 men, left ,they fliolild de
flroy the liberties of the .people, in spite of
all the militia in the country.
Mr. D. concluded by faying, that there
was great danger in conceiving ourselves too
secure. He believed we had resources which
if called forth, would enable 11s to defend
ourselves against the world ; but if we decli
ned-to use them, and rely for defence upon a
disorganized militia, this security might te
fatal to us. Indeed all the arguments of tbe
gentleman from Pennsylvania went to fliew
rather an extreme jealousy ofou'rowngovern- '
ment than any apprehenlions from a foreign
foe. He hoped, therefore, the motion would
be negatived.
Mr. Brooks hoped the motion would not
prevail, for as the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania has declared that he is the bill
altogether, it might beexpected that he would
do all i* his power to make it ineffectual.—
The gentleman from Pennsylvania has said
that there is not the lealt danger of war, and
therefore it is not neceliary to raise 10,000
men He was a little fiirprized, al«er that
gentleman had declared day day, that if
such and such measures were taken, thev
would involve the country "in war, and those
measures' had been agreed Upon, that he
should now fay there is no danger of war. He
fays that France can have no idea of subju
gating a country so capable of defence as we
are; but the gentleman seemed to have for
gotten what had been said about the drvifion
ofopinionin this country, upon which liefup
pofed the French principally relied. He ho
ped France was m-.ftaken'in Her expectations
on this subjeCt; yet, if (he only lent 10,003
men against us, he should wi(h the country to
be in a situation to receive them. If France
was persuaded, that the moment her dandard
was ereCted on our shores, one half the people
would flock to it, (lie might be induced to
Tend .out an army against us; and-if so, he
wiflied to have 10,000 men in aid of our mili
tia, to meet them. He luppofed the molt ef
fectual way of preventing any attack was to
fliew ourselves ready to refill it whenever it
conies.
The gentleman from Pennfylvaniawas mod
fruitful in resources. When he is defeated
in one point, he takes up another, and meets
you on every fide. But amopgU all ii:e exl
traordinary things he said was, that because
the French had different habits, and spoke a
different language from the people of this
country, they were not likely to obtain a.iv
permanent interest here. He did not think,
there was any weight in this remark ; he did
nof think the French manners and the French
language were so very obnoxious to th. peo
ple of this country as they were reprelented •
he believed the difference betwixt the gentle
man himfelf and those manners and that lan
guage, would not be found very grcar.
Mr. B'. said he would not dotain the com
mittee longer, bee au I; he was confident the
motion would not be agreed to. He had him
felf been always in favour ps railing 20,000
men, but upon the seleCt committee he w is
induced to agree to 10,000, from the confi
deration that the Prelident would have the
power of calling out and organizing 10,000
militia.
Mr. Macon kid, if gentlemen were de
termined to have war at any rate, they had
better to bring fore, arc) at once a propefmoh.
to that ctfcrt ; but whilst we are in „ !!•;«„of peacr, and there is no to break
.if, h ! with 3d to as in .1 lUte of peace.— ,
Gentlemen had Ipoken of the true touchstone,
and ot parties; \he true distinction of party
in that house seemed to be> ■ hat certain gen
tlemen are determined to take every means
which leads to expence and patronage, and
others arc as determined inoppoling that ex
ycncc and that patronage. He belived this
v. as in Congrefsthe trne criterion of party
Therefore when augmentations of our mili
tary force were contemplated, it was ftiewn
to the House where they were to be employ
ed, and the propriety of theincreafe was tes
ted by the neceflity which was thewn for
them; but now, because the French govern •
raent, or somebody for them, has (aid some
foolilh things, an array is toberaifed, without
faying how, or where it is to be employed.
Is there, said Mr. M. a man in the counffy,
who is nor blinded by party spirit, who can
believe that the French government knew any
thing of the unauthorized conversations held
with our CommilfiOners in Paris? Is there
an American who believes that one half the
people of ihis countryitre devoted to Francfc?
It could not be believed.
If the people of Charleston, or any other
place, think ihemfelves in danger, he was
willing to let them have as many troops as
ihey a!ked for; but, as had been nated, 5000
were a greyer ftumbfr than had been (hewn
to be necefl'ary. He was opposed to the bill
altogether, as he latf no neceflity for it. He
believed f any nation chose to make an at
tempt to latvi men in this-cotintry, the militia
would be able to kill them as fa(t as they
could be brought. He hoped wever again to
fee whut lie saw in the late waf —American
armed again It American. If ever we were a
gain called to arms, he trusted there would be
but one sentiment in America, as to the pro
priety or justice of the cause in which we
fight.
Gentlemen talked loudly about the Inde
pendence of the country, as if they were the
lole guardians of it. Could it be supposed
that men who had fought to gain that inde
pendence, would now be more willing than
they who had taken no part in the contest, to
relinquilh the prize to any Nation ? It could
ny be supposed. Nor could he believe with
the gentleman from New-Jersey (Mr. Day
ton) that the Army of England could be in
tended for this country. He underltood thar
Army was proposed ia be sent ov# to Eng
gland in open Doats, whichgentierhen would
not contend could bring them hither. He
believed that it was not proper on this, or on
any »ccafion, where danger was apprehended,
to (hew a distrust of our countrymen, fromany
difference of political opinion which may exiit
amongfl them ; for, whatever maybe their va
rianee io that rei'petfl whenever an enemy ap
per.rs, they will unite in repelling him. At to
what had been faicl about the fbhjugati 11 cf*h s
country*, it wa«- id'e. He did not believe that .
all the powers of Europe united could fubjagate
the United States. Ht should be in favor or
5,:oo men, because they would only cost hall
theexpence of jo,coo
The queAion for striking out 20,000 to insert
5,000, was put and negatived 4J to 41
The qneftion novv returned upon striking out
so,ooo to insert io,coo.
Mr. N. Smith hoped this amend men
would not be agreed to. It was contempla
ted, when this reduction was proposed, that
the power should be given to the President
for three years; b llt w as now reftricled to
the recess of Congress. He did not himfelf
think that at present there was any danger of
an invalion, nor did he believe that imminent
danger of an invasion would ex'rft, whilst the
war continued betwixt France af*l«England ;
but, whenever a peace lhall take place be
twixt those two powers, the que/fion ought
then to be this country ought
not immediately to go into preparations for
war, and if Congress were nDt in feflion at
the time, the President ought to have the
power of deternjffiing this question. It will
depend on several circumfhmces— 011 what
kind of Peace was made—upon what ground
parties flood when peace was made —®n the
"iituation of France dtfthe time—on what kind 1
of men are in power-—on the situation of this
country—on what is the slate of parties here
at the time —what is the number of those who '
are opposed to the government—how many 1
there tire of those who wi/Ti to lull the reft to j
deep —and what is the amount of spies in the
country. All these will be important conta-
derations to be decided at the time, and if it 1
flial! tiic . appear that imminent danger does 1
exist, will 20,000 men be too large a number I
to raise ? lie believed nor.
Another consideration of great importance .
wis, the language which the house would '
hold to Europe in adopting this amendment.
It is laid, that in cafe of invasion, war, of
imminent danger, ac.ooo men will be too '
many to-be raised ; we will only raise 10,000.
He did not think luth language the most pro- I i
per on such anoccalion,
If, the French invade this eountry, it mult
he with a view to fubjngate it ; and if so, it '
nmft be done through the nte'lium of a Re- '
volution ; and it the date of parties at the '
time anthorifes an expectation of fue'eefs, we J
may expeft them here. And though he be. (
lieved, with other gentlemen 011 this floor, ■
that therfc is no'danger of an invasion at pre- 1
fant, it was because he believed the opinions
frequently exprelTed imthis house by the gen
tleman front Pennsylvania and others, were
not very prevalent out of doors. If- they
were, he (hould count upon nothing less than
Revolution and Subjection. To provide for
the raising of lets than jo,ooo men, would in •
his opinion, rather invite attack, than serve
to repel it ; and as the men would not berai-,
(cd, except tjiey were wanted, there could
be 110 reasonable hesitation about the matter. <
The queltion for striking out 10,000, and
inserting 10,000, was put and carried, 54 J
in favourofit.
The queftinn next came upon agreeing to
the section proposed by the seleCt committee, 3
for authorizing the President, from time to '
time, as he fli.ill deem it neceflary, to call
forth in rotation such portions, not exceeding i
at any one tiir.c the number ps ao,ooa men of ;
the detachments of the militia of the United ,
States, authorized by the aft of the 14th June
lad, as may be conveniently mullered toge- J
ther, and cause them to be trained and diiei
plined by their proper officers, either in th«ir 1
respeCtive States, or'in one corps, to be <
drawnfrom two or more adjoining States, for i
a term not exceeding for which time ,
the officers and men (hall bfe considered as in
actual service and be paid and governed ac- '
conlingly. c
Afrcr fonie difcuflion, in j»hich conflituti- I
onal objeClions were urged againlt this provi- f
tion, the committee role without takint; a t
quellion upon it, 4nd the house adjourned t
till Monday. ,
a
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
HAS Rtn.oved to No. Chefaut-ftreet,
wl ere Titletto Real eftitvs art examined
inj Briefs thereof and Conveyance, of every
kind, prepared. 'may ai d
X!)e (sasette.
' .
; -PHILADELPHIA,
l ■
TUESDAY EVENING, Mat 29.
■ At a numerous meeting of the inhabitants
' of Poll's Town and its vicinity, in
" ' Montgomery-county. Pennsylvania, on
, j Saturday the 12th of-Algy, 1798, —
Samuel Baird in the chair, —Joseph
: I Potts, jun. Secretary ; —the following
t resolutions were unanimonflv agreed to *.
Hairing contemplated, with anxious soli
, citude and approbation, the repeated efforts
made by the Executive, to terminate the
I differences between this country and the
French Republic j and having observed,
| with aftonilhment and indignation, that
those advances towards a reconciliation,
. have not only uiet with pointed neglefl and
> indignity, but that infamous attempts have
been made to coriupt the integrity of 'our
> government, and to subvert the happiness
and independence of our country;
Therefore, ,
Resolved, That the present interesting
crisis imperiously demands thai the govern
ment should be fully assured of the unlimited
confidence and support of its conftituenu.
Rcfolved, That a eommittee be appointed
to prepare an addrefsto be prefcnted to the
President, exprdfive of the foregoing senti
ments, apd alTuring him of our firm de
termination to support tSe government of
our choice in every measure it may deem
necessary to maintain the rigWts, honor, and
independence of our conntry.
Whereupon, John Brooke, Robert E.
Hobart, Bartholomew YVamback, Henry
Miflnncr, and Francis R. Potts, were ap
pointed, who reported the following ad
dress, which was anatiimoufly adopted. •
People of Poll's Town and its vicinity,
in Montgomery county, Pennsylvania,
To JOHN ARAMS,
President of the United States.
Sir, '
WE have been accustomed to observe in
silence, though not with indifference, those
political occurrences which affeft the hnp
pinefs and prosperity of our-country. The
present eventful crisis, however, imposes on
us a new duty, and we comply with its ob
ligation with cheerfulnefs :n exprefiing to
you, the firft officer of our government,
those sentiments with which we are at pre
feut actuated.
We allure you, therefore, that we have
cordially approved of the firm, yet temper
ate system adopted by the Executive in its
intercourse with the government of the
French Republic. With anxious solicitude
we have awaited the event of these overtures
dictated by a spirt of dignified forbearance
and condufted with the firmnefs of con
scious integrity, which have been made with
a view to an amicable adjuflment of the
differences between the two countries.
But, Sir, though we desired an adjullment
upon terms compatible with the honor and
dignity of the United States, upon those
terms only we desired it, ai d we have seen,
with inexpreflihle indignation, the infamous
attempts which have been made upon the
integrity of our govern ment, by threaten
ing the peace and happiness of our country,
unless preferred at the price, us national de
gradation.
With tlje virtuous spirit, therefore, of
Republicans, we join, we trnft, the general
voice, in rejecting with disdain the igno
minious alternative ; resolved to preserve
inviolate, at the facrince, if necessary, of
property and life, the honor and indepen
dence of our country, and to leave them
unsullied, a sacred deposit with our pos
terity.
While a review of the measures of your
adminiflratioti impresses us with a sense of
your wisdom and firmnefs, it infpire3 us
with a confidence that you will not surren
der any of the rights of the nation, and that
its interest and happiness will Hill continue
, the objeft of your meritorious exertions.
Resolved unanimoujly, That the foregoing
nddrefs be signed by the Chairman and Se
cretary, on behalf of this meeting, and
forwarded to John Chapman and Samuel
Sitgreaves, Efqwires, Representatives in
Congress from this diftriit, to be by them
prefetited to the President of the United
States.
SAMUEL BAIRD, Chairman.
Attest,
Joseph Potts, jun. Secretary.
ANSWER.
To the People of Pott's Town and its vicinity,
in the county of Montgomery, in the slate of
Pennsylvania.
gentlemen,
WE live in times, when it is almost
impossible to observe with indifference, or
in silence, those political occurrences, which j
a fie A the happiness and prosperity of our
country.
The cordial approbation and refpe& you
avow of the firm and fyftem,
adopted by the Executive authority of go
vernment, in its intcrcourfe with the go
vernment of the Fre: ch Republic,, is very
fatisfa&ory : You desired an adjuftmeut
upon terms compatible with the honor and
dignity of the United States, and upon these
terms only : You have seen, with inex- ;
prefiible indignation, the infamous attempts
which have been made upon the integrity ;
of our government, by threatening the I
peace and happiness of your country, unless i
preserved at the price of national, degrada- I
tion : You resolve to prtferve inviolate, et 1
the facrificc of life and property, the honor <
and independence of your country, and to <
leave them u.* sullied, a sacred deposit with 1
posterity : and in' declaring, these sentiments t
to the world, you have deserved we 1 of a
your country. f
Your confidence, that I will not furren- ii
der the rights of the Nation, fbali not be a
- betrayed : If the nation wee capable of
fnch a surrender, which ft is 11 t, some
other hand must affix the signature to the
ignominious deed.
JOflN ADAMS. -J
Philadelphia, 25th May, 1.798.
IN purfuanceof a notification, publifhcd
infeveral newspapers, requeuing the inhabi
3 tants of Berks County, in the ItaV of Penn
-1 fylvania, to assemble and t ike into coniidera
® tion the prop ietyof addreflingthe President
" of the United.States on the present alarm
-1 ing situation of the country ; a very large
J number of the most refpe&able inhabitants of
• the I'cwnty, met at the Cniirt House in the
- Borough of Reading, on Thursday tin: 17th
s day of May, 1798 ; and appointed
: JACOB RUSH. Efqr Chakman.
e JACOB HUBLEY, Efqr. Sec ry.
• ~" f
t Immediately after the Chairman had-taken
, ' his feat and the meeting was opened, the
1 following addrei9, finned by John Moore,
; and John Potter, in behalf of 113 Young
• Men of the County, who marched in mili
-1 tary procession to this meeting, was pre
sented :
To the Chairman,
At a moment when we view the present
alarming fituati n of a country that our
forefathers ventured their lives to fettle and
; cultivate. »he freedom and liberties < f whish
were since obtained by the blood of our t
nearest arid dearest connexions, we ask, Sir,
(hall we fit down cooly a: d fee those dear
bcught rights trampled 011 by foreign pow- '
ers ? No, Sir, tha. fp'rit fliewn by our
ancestors, still reigns in the breads of their
foKS—and we fare flep forward, though
youag and unexperienced, to offer our lives
and services in support of the laws and liber
ties of our Country.
/c- j," JOHN MOORE, Chairman.
JOHN POTTER, Secretary.
• Reading, M'y 17, 1798.
Which being read, it was moved and re
solved, that the thanks of this meeting be
given to the Young Men for the foregoing
address.
The following- refutations were then una
nimoiiflyadopted, viz. .
Refohed, That a committee be appointed '
to prepare an address to the Pr fident of the ;
Unite 1 States, expreflive of the confidence j
of this meeting in h's wisdom, patriotism, '
and integrity, and of their approbation of
the wife and equitable measures adopted by
the Executive of the United States with re
fpe<ft to foreign actions, particularly in ne
gociation with the Frenc'n R^ublic
Resolved, That George Ege, Efqr. Gen.
Jacob Bower, Col. John Myer, Capt. Peter
Nagle. and-Daniel Clymer, be a committee
for the purpose aforefaid.
The Committee having retired for a short
time, returned with the Address, which be
ing rfad k was unanimously adopted, and
heartily approved of ; and
ReflveJ, That the Address presented by
the Committee aforefaid be signed by the
Chairman and Secrc ary, in behalf of the
meeting, and be transmitted to Joseph
He ister, Efqr. to be by him presented to
the PrefiAnt of the United States.
Signed in'behalf of-the meeting.
JACOB RUSH, Chairman.
Attest, JACOB HUBLEY, Sec'ry.
IN pursuance of a notification published
in several newspapers, requeuing the iohabi
lants of Berks Couaty in the state of Penn
sylvania to afTemble and take into considera
tion the propriety of addressing the President
of the United States, on the present alarm
ing situation of the Country ; a very large
number of the moJt refpeflable inhabitants
of the County Tret at the Court House in
the Borough of Reading, on Thursday the
17th day of May, 1798, and unanimcufly
resolved that the fallowing Addreis be pre
sented
To the President of the United States.
S 1 R,
THE intereftmg crisis to which the Unit
ed Sates are at lalt driven by the rSpacity,
wickednefj, and ambition of the French 1
Government, tails loudly and explicitly up- I
on us to unite in defence of our country ; and
by displaying that unanimity o the worU, c
to convince our enemies, that the people are i
not d.vided from their Gsvernment.
There remains not the doubt that
their piojeft of plundering this part of the
globe, is very much strengthened by the sal- '
llacious idea that the Executive ol the U it
ed States hath contravened the wilhes and
sentiments of the people at large in his inter
course with foreign nations.
To repel this falft and mischievous calum
ny arfar as lies in our power, by bearing a ,
public and unequivocal teftimoney in favour
of your Adminiftratio'i, and tfpecially in
behalf of the !ate attempt to negociate a
t eaty of peace with the French Nation, is
both cur motive and apology for intruding
on you with' this A jdrefs.
If our situation has becone in any degree
serious or alarming, Ve are highly gratified
in the refle&iort it has not proceeded from
any want of temperate and judicious mea
sures, on your part to prevent it.
The relative conduit of the United States
and of France, at this eventful period, must,
form a striking contrail, in the judgment of
the candid and discerning part of mankind ;
and history w ll hereafter be at a loss which
to admire most, the impudent profligacy
and exorbitant demands of the French, in
order to plunge us into war, or the anxious
and unremitted efforts of the United Sates
to avoid it. While we thus express our un
refcrved approbation of the conduit of the
firft Magiflrale, we cannot omit the oppor
tunity of declaring, that we have the most
entire confidence in your wisdom, integrity,
and political fortitude ; and that we trust,
by the bleflings of Heaven, upon the Exccu
tive and Legislative Councils of our country, 1
aided ty the patriotism of the People, we
shall be enabled to support our independence,
in defiance of an enemy, who not only spurns
at ourtriiniileri of peace, but openly avows
of an intention of compelling us to yield the lad
Tie far'hin<> ; if in their boundless ambition they
he fha!l ihi' k proper to ask t.
Signed in behalf of the meeting,
> (Signed) JACOii RUSH. Chairman.
Atiett, JACOB HUBLEY, Sec'ry.
t
ed To the Inhabitants o] Berls Ciunty, in the
ji slate of Pcnnfyh'ama.
n- Gentlemen,
ra- THE pubfick and unequivocal testimony
nt you offer, in favour of my Adminiflration,
n- efpccially in she late attempt, to negociate a
je treaty of peace with the French Nation, de
of serves my thanks.
he I think with you that history will hcreaf
th ter he at a lof6, which 10 admire mull, the
anxious and unremitted efforts of the United
States to avoid war, or thofc of the French
to plunge us into it.
Y iur approbation and confidence are e
cn qt-ally encouraging, audi trust with you,
lie that by the blcfEngs of Heaven, on the Le
t, giflatue and Executive Councils of our
ig Country, fupporied by the patriotism of the
li- People, we ihall be enabled to preserve our
e- Independence. JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 24, 1798.
Nt Reading, May 14, 1798.
ur Tc hii ExC'lUn y John Adams, Pnfident
id of the United Stales.
ih Sir,
jr i AT a moment when add.tffea of appro
r, bation are issuing from so many towns, and
r- from almolt every Hate in tl e Union, we
r- i (hoold deem ouifejves in fom. d gree culpa
lr ble, were we to withhold ft on merit the
ir just reward of thanks and applatife ; which
'h in our opinion every man is entitled to., from
:s the meatiest cottager, up to ihe firft magif
r- trate, who is so fortunate as to render df
tinguilhed fervicesto his couniry.
We the fubferibers, young men of this
y. Borough, having caught the glorious flame
of rhe metropoi s, are ambitious to emulare
so noble an example ; and though few in
number, we trnft our offering will net be
>e unacceptable.
g We are too mnch engaged in business,
and too young to be competent judges of all
1- the measures of government ; but there are
fume so obviously just, that even we are able
:d : to perceive their propriety and
le ] this description is the pac sic measure, in or
:c . der to preserve a good underllanding with the
l, ' French Nation, and to avtrt their hostile
>f views from our country. We have been
y witnefles of her irjuftice to other powers,
:- we now feel it ourselves.
. We ha»e feeo her at home, overturning
the immense fabric of despotic and corrupt
1. and erefting upon the ruins of
:r it, a republic still more despotic and cor
x rupt: in the progress of this vast revolution.
all the bands of society have been loosened ;
rt and every principle, human and divine, has
r- been trampled in the dull,
d However, Sir, we are determined to (hew
them, and the whole world, that we prefer
y the Religion and Laws of our forefathers to
,e their newfangled dofrines; and that we
e will oppo e, to the utmost of our power,
h their 'y-annical demands, and every attack,
0 upon our liberty as f«c ured to us, by our no
ble »::d excellent Conllitutioa. As a pledge,
Sir, of our fiuccrity, we hereby make you
1. a voluntary tander of our belt ferv'ces, for
1, the fafety of our common country, whene
ver it shall pleale you to demand them,
d Accept, Sit. our ardent wilhes for your
- happiness and welfare.
Signed by one hundred and fifteen young
- men.
t
To the Young Men of the Borough of Reading,
e iu Pennsylvania.
s Gentlemen,
a Your Addtefs, adopted under the aufpi
e cesand with the exprels approbat on of your
f fathers, is nol) affe&ing to me—Upon"
• your own principle you are entitled to thanks
and applause ; the refpedl you avow to the
young men of" Philadelphia has been well
merited.
Those must be young, indeed, who are
, not competent judges of the present slate of
1 their country, and cannot lee the road of
- honor, virtue and patriotism.
! The voluntary tender of your best fervi
, ces, for the fafety.of our common country.
' docs you honor, and will receive its appliufe,
JOHN ADAMS,
t Philadelphia, May '79®-
- WASHINGTONLOTTERY.No.iI.
1 A Lift of Blanks and Prizes.
166 th Day's Drawing—February 3.
. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls.
1 ; 37& 10870 13869 34173 *
r 533 995 9*7 * 3°4
539 "313 24101 591 2 5
890 x 12618 258 x 954 x
1 1361 831 408 35935
» 641 13m 25118 36186 x
[ 3017 x 381 ■ 537 38371
344 878 582 815
. 871 x 15683 583 928
[ 954 995 «4<> 39 1 49
3163 15/80 x 8?f 639
476 x 819 16095 x 749
658 883 x 199 841
936 16166 453 x 961
i 4013 x 477 586 991
317 17413 * 937 * 40137
r 77» 668 961 x 553
819 x . 669 27166 j® 41156 x
5447 30 18351 377 530
747 397 480 x 997
889 404 571 43468
6*35 39-> * 987 44313
7537 * 79* * 18401 802 x
814 x 19250 473 45513 x
8021 3ir x 734 46167 x
054 445 5° >9429 553
t 344 783 3 0c 99 726
- 30315 590 997
9"5 754 595 X- 47»40
167 31011 x 953 * 48062
627 x 857 31031 * 124
776 x 771 x 677 lie
10223 807 x 732 641
3*3 957 * 745 49060 x
354 22365 33071 x 411
525 x 577 241 x
569 x 33133 30 33018
690 660 x, 996 je
t ■==-:■ ■
r FOREIGN ARTICLEI
CADIZ, March 8.
'• Lord St. Vincent, whom we fjopofed
• : had returned to Lisbon, is at this moment,
with 12 (hips of the lint, at anchor in the
' road of Jeremie, a few leagues to the faith
of Cape Spartel, and consequently so situ
ated, as to form a junction with theremain
f der of the fleet, which at prefeat
> blockades Cadiz, profiting himfelf by the
» fame wind, which wil! facilitate the failing
- of «ur fleet. However, notwithftandlng
i the situation of Lord St. Vincent, our fleet
- i 9 determined to fail with the firft fair wind,
: it has provilions for tour months.
' ! The fleet which blockades ua. is always
1 ' in fight of the port, one of their advice boau
is continually hovering about, in order t«
■ discover what is pafTi g here.
MADRID March 14.
' 1 Sequi the commiffioi.er of the French
Directory, has found some difficulties atten
ding the million with which he is charged
that he did not expeft. It appears that he
• cannot approach the Prince of Peace so of
| ten is he "ifhes. and that it was not with
out some difficulty, that he was enabled to
fend off the courier which he has dispatch
ed for Paris within tliefe few days.—Tliofe
who*wilh abfolutcly to divine that which is
not confided to them, pretend to fiy,' that
1 there is something more than coolness txiftt
1 between the coinmifiioner and the ambafla
dorofthe French republic. However, be
j it as it may, it is certain that it will not be
1 long 6efore Sequi departs for France.
1 1
HAMBURGH, March ij.
Twenty barrels ti led with silver have late-
I ly arrived here from E gland, and is said
; to be destined for Vienna—We understand
: | that a second remittance, of the like kind,
: | will soon arrive.
Many people pretend to fay, that we
shall be brought under the yoke of a great
power.
So far, however, nothing has transpired,
that can afford the least foundation to so
disagreeable a report.
PARIS, March 27.
By another arret, of the 26th Ventofe,
(ls«h March) the commune of Berg rac
has been declared in a Kate of siege, The
true motives which have produced this arret
arse, that the partizans of royalty have en
deavoured to mislead the public trfind, and
have planned troubles, which they intended
to bring forth at ths enfuisg eledions, by
fending ferret agents among the inhabitants
of the country, causing the deluded farmer!
tofign a defamatory libel againfl the confli
cted authorities«of the department ; that
the malevolent-os that commune, have de
termined to carry the rallying standard, and
have resolved to choose the officers of the
National guard, from among the enemies of
tie government ; in fine, that they are
leagued with those of Bourdeaux, theconfe
quences of whieh it is impossible to forefee.
By another arret of the 28th Ventofe,
(17th March) the Executive direflory has
appointed citizen Lecarlier, adminiflrator
of the department of L'Aifne. to be com
missary of the government, near the army
of the French republic in Switzerland. Ci
tizen Mengaud, charge d'affairs bf the re
public at Bade, and citizen Mangouret, re
sident of the republic at Valais, will conform
themselves to the inflru&ions which citizen
Lecarlier (hall give them, in consequence of
those which he will receive from the execu
tive direftory.
A report has prevailed for these few days
pad, and is generally credited, that fx
French fleet which failed from Corfu, com
posed of 40 (hips of the line, besides fri
gates, and having 4,000 men on board, hai
arrived at Syracuse in Sicily.
BAT AVIAN CONSTITUTION.
Letter from the Miniiler of Foreign Affairs
to the Pjefident of the Executive Direct
ory—2 Germinal [March 2].
Citizen President, I this instant receive
intelligence, that the plan of a conflitution,
presented to the conllituent assembly, of the
Batavian people, has jufl been definitively
adopted. *
(Signed)
CH. Man. TALLYRANDJ
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED-
March 23.
Gauthier (of Calvados) fbtes ; in a mo
tion of order, the necessity of organizing
speedily, eftabli(hments sb- pu' lie in(lru£t
ion, especially with refpeft,to morals, wllich
is called for from all quarters. He concludes
i bv proposing that all lubjefts not ur ent be
adjourned for one month, and that the com
mittee of public inftruftion be4icard every
other day. The council adopt the proposi
tion.
RASTADT, March 15.
Anfwerof the French ministers, to the
lad note of the deputation of the Empire
dated the 1 itli inft.
Theminiftcrspl-nipotentiaryoft! e Frefich
republic, have always thought, that thi- de
putation of the hmpire, convinced of the
necessity of a fixed and invariable limit be
tween the two countries, would accede to a
proposition wh ch private intercfts and fu
ordinate passions alnne could have delayed.
Tliey fee with pleasure. in the resolution
of the Ilth March, (22d Ventofe), of
which the Imperial miniiter has communica
tedtothem a copy,ai nex'd to his own note,
that their hope was not without foundation.
It is now that, it will be possible to begin
to labour more efficacioufly for the happi
ness of the people, fmce it is possible, im
mediately, and without impediment, t® set
about preventing the evils of was, by ihe
speedy conclusion o£a liable peace, of which
the firft eftefls will be, the retreat of the
troops into the interior.
To accelerate this great work, it is neceflary to Sx.thc manner of the bujcmnity 1
for such of the forte* as have loH by tltesjcef- |
fion of the left bank of the Rhine. Tn>>.
minilters of the French Republic find the
bafi3< fftict* inde n itvin the fecutariz itioris,
Ta# deputation of the empire will early
convince ilfeif, lhat »his ball* is as <eceflary
as. that which h*.* already be/i accepted,
the set* I 'ment ot boundaries.—
It would he fuperfliirfus to remark that it» is
not necefTary, at present, to examine what
ilates avc a right to indemnity, ndr to pre
sent a statement of the objetts which may
be applied to tb fe indemnities. It is fm- i
proper and imptdiible to think »»f the appli- ,
cation of a principle, until the principle be |
gent rally acknowledged
Ii is then only, that an answer will be
proper to the articles annexed tothe notes of
the 3d March of which several arc in effect
admiflihle.
Rajladty isd Vcutof<e % (March l\*)
(Signed)
TR ILHARD & BONNIER.
The principle of f c. larization contained
rn the answer of the French miniftew, will
cause, it is feared, a fcluTm in the deputa
tion of the empire.
SFJILIN, F brjary *3.
Thrkinj has laielv created acommiflion of finance 1
compofctl of »he midifters of Rate Shulcnbourg,
Kehno:, Hcini 2 apd Suucnfcr, ihrcc men httlerio
regarded as the worthy pupi'.j. of Frederick II- tvidci
(lanHir.i? well i ! c true iniertft of the ftatc, anrl having
llwavs facrificcd their private iuteieft for the general
welfare 4
Much 1.
The following arc ihe dnai's of the diftu bance in
the gjiri on .of Mnnua* The 33d P uviofe in the
morriujr. the inhabitants of Mdntua, rema ked an
extraordinary movement in the French gar ifon.
These troops suddenly atrhe Place dVnies,
whh four pfree los cannon, lighted match, arms and
b*<g 3 gc 1 and ihere tookuo a hue of march to quit ,
ihe cuy, declaring that they intended to return to
¥ranceto demand their pay, of whkh they had not
received • farthing for four m<»nths pa(t. Gc eral-
MioHit imnicdia ejyr ordered all the gates to L>j
and lent hi* aid-c!e-campsto quiet the (otdie.s; but
it wis not until a*t< r much remonAiarice, that they
conTer.fed to remain, on condition that their pay :
fhoti dWe given to them the next da v. Tbc admin- j
juration, upon a wrt -en r» quifition of gen. Miollis, '
immediately ordered a forced loan of four hund-ed
thoufard li»res. After emptying all tbe pubUc<hefts
and appl\in£to the c?pitaliita end per'on* in . fflnenc
eircumOances, they at leng'h railed the neceff'ty sum,
by the tims Appointed. They also put in requisition
five thoo <*na fhirtsand fix thoufond pair of shoes, of ,
which rhe.french troops were totally dcfti'.ute.v ;
March
Our executive dircfiory has published Pwo letters
of g»ner<)| Bertliier. The hrtl contains thcdeclara- 1
lion «»f the French government in favor of the Vene- !
tian patriots, who wifti to fr'tle upon the territory of !
France. The second •'avs/t'hat according to the de- j
marcation of lijpiiu, whicn will {hortly wke place '
between the Roman and Cifa'pine republics, the lat
ter will have Samt Leon and the town of Pefara, so
that the two republics will be separated by a line
drawn on the heights between Paflaro and Fano.
This ccflion will be made upon condition that the
Cifai'Dtnes will keep the two places in queilion in the
bed state of defence.
Letters from Genoa fay, that the French troops in
that city, amounting to two thousand men, have left
it for this place.—The Ligurian govenment has de- i
termined to build two ships of the line and four sri- I
£ au **
The numher'bf imperial troops increases daily at j
Pavia, and seven battalions more, whose deftinaiion >
is not known, are exprfted.
French and Cifalbire regiments continue to pass j
through Bologna, as well as transports of ammuni
tion, drltined for the ci-devant estates of the church.
t
FRANKFOKT,
Letters from Vienna fav, that the new railing of
ttoeps which isabout taking place in Auftiia will
amount to 80, coo men. I - is confirmed that the impe
rial troops will remain for the present, upon the war
eftahlifhment.
Acc to letters of the 15th March, the Hanfe 1
towns of Lube:k, Bremen and Hamburgh, have de
livered to the deputation of the" empire, a memo'lai
in which they ask the continuance of their political
existence and abfolu e neutrality for their com
merce, during the wars which may in future take
place. '
Head-Quarters, Bavc, M*rch 15.
General Brune, commander in chiaf of the French
troops in Helveti.v
Whereas a large number of citizens of the dif- 1
ferent cantons of Helvetia, exprefTed to rre their <
desire to fee the a republic one j
and indivisible, democratic and representative,
which ould He compefed of the country of Vaud \
ard tie four jurifdivflion' ; of the Upper and <
Lower V;il is ; ci the Italian Bailiwicks ; of Ge- <
fenay and the Vpjn r Country [a part of the Can- ,
ton ol Be rn so called] of the Canton of Friboarg y
and the diflrjifls ol Morar anj Nidau, I have taken
tinder confederation thr motives of their cfeniand, I
an J 1.91111 I it wel! adapted to the of IK
berty, and to the local filiation, since a republic c
compp r cd. of all tho Verified t; rrirories, inij;ht |
frttly grv fn herA If after her.own law* and,en j
joy tie advert: ol ar ailiarce with the French
re; üblK. 1 htrofrre it is her y dire»sted : '
i. 'he re; refc- rative* ps thf Tipper and Lower 1
Valais. of thelrniim Bailiwick*: of th. 'per j
Country and Grfenay ;of the Canton of Fribonrg j
nr!.! the diOri<Ss of K.orat and Nidau shall me- t,
v. ithout delay, in the c ty of 'l.aufanne, and join 1
the reprelcrtativcs of rhe country of Vaud, in or- j 1
dcr to partake, by legislation, in the govcrnnn nt ( J
of theJtloJaniak republic Thed:ftri«fts, that h j ve I t
nor y.-r choftni iheir cl«d)ors or rcpref.'nta ives {
fliall witi out delay proceed to the ele&ion, in the !
fam k ! manner as it has been done in the country of
Vaud. # 1
11. nboJjr.ia conflfts of five cantons, viz 1. Le- r
rjan, coniprchendinjr. the country of Vaud and the t
fqur j'.rifdifdidions ; Lausanne, chief place. 1. S3-
rine and Croye, comprehending the ci-devant Can
ton of Fribourg, and the d ftriil of Vl or at and 1
Nidau : Payern. , chief place. 3. The Upper
Lrnd;Thun, chief place. 4. Valais ; Sion, chief
place 5. refiuo, comprehending the ci devant *
Italiin Bailiwicks ; Locarno, chid* place. x
111. I'he republic of Rliodonia has a legislative
body cimpofed of 72 members, divided into two 2
councils, the senate cf a4members, and the r
council of 48. Canton of Leman fends IJS 1
deputies ; Marine ar.d Croyc, 18 ; Upper Land, j»;
Valais. ii; and Tcfino, i».
IV. it has an executive dirc&ory compoftfd of
five mtmbtTs 3
V. Laufaune is the feat of the legislative body r
and of tie dire>slory, who may however, within r
fix months, definitively determine which place r
Stall he the si.at of government. . £
VI. Ihe lcgifl.itive body shall meet on the sth 1
Germinal (Afarch 15.) They may deliberate, as 1
soon ns there are ij members present in the great t
council, and 13 in the senate. iioth councils fliall r
be every two years renewed by halves, viz. cveiy
ye?r twenty four members go out of the great I
council, aud thirteen out of th«fe»ate.
VIL Ihe directory shall enter into council on
the i cth Germinal
ry to be married or a widower to be eligible for a
place m the djrc&ory.
VIII. 1 here feall be in each town or chief com
r.uipe a of which the fub-prefed (fcill
he president. The municipaliti s fliall watch for
thefafety of the property belonging to the com
mune*. j
IX. The indemnifies granted to the conflicted
authorities fliall la at thfc charge of tha public
treasury.
X. The plan of a alopred in the
of L-niao. formerly called Pav» de Vaud,
!' a-' a gni !e, excepc as to such points 45
are contra."* to the pref-nt regulations, N'rver
the'efs, the L >T'<i ive body (hall wi'hout delay,
1 mit the power apprehending, given to the
national prcfefU.
XL ihe Irgifiative bot*y /hall intro lice the tri
al by juries, in criminal cn r -«. I: may proceed to
a revi.ion of the eonfli'ution within two y-a-s,
that rhr changes He fwbmitted to the fane
tion of the primary a(T nibln.s
I he customs and haSir* favorable to morality
and hbertv, religioj- oninions and wor(h : p shall
be r fpcited. The legiflu'tive body ihall set the
example of that refpeOifc.
(Signetl) ERUNE.
FRENCH GRATITUDE.
REPUBLIC OF VENICE.
Spr ch of thf P the National
Convention of France to the Venetun
Amhaflddor in the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-five.
•' Governed by a wife conftitntion.direa
ed solely by the principles of Justice and
Rea r on,, and the purell maxims of morality,
France is on the point of enjoying the oh
j<-as of htr willies, Liberty, Equality and
Union. France always great, will reply to
generous proceedings by proceedings eqnal
ly generous. When on all fides our riling
republic was affaikd in its Cradle, and the
event appeared to be uncertain, the Veneti
an Senate not content with keeping within
the bounds of neutrality, received <wiih Sf,
tindion the Envoy of the French Republic-
We love to talk of and publifli our Grati
tude. The measure was so much the more
noble, as it exposed our faithful ally to much.
embarra/Tment. France under a defpotlc
yoke might be ungrateful and treach:rous,
but France reilortd to Freedom, becomes
a Republic, which Cannot bs otherwise than
grateful. Tell your nation that {he may
number among the mojl pure and zealous of
her allies the French Republic. Hslland,
comprized in our treaty with Spain, proves
that we do not forget our allies."
This was the language of France in 179 J.
Every body knows the relt." Within two
years this faithful ally, this ancient Repub
lic, was bartered and swapped away to the
Emperor of Germany.
jfim*rican Reader !—paufe here !
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, May 24.
• The rain which fell yesterday, was ac
companied with more severe thunder and
lightening than has been witnefled since the
warm season commenced—the dwelling* |
house of Mr. B. Joy, in Newbury-ftreet,
was struck by the lightening in two or three
different direftions, and the interior consi
derably damaged; the fuhr. Federal George,
lying at the' head of Long-Wharf, had her •
main-top-mast cut away, and her mainmast
IViivered to pieces. These are all the acci
dents we have heard of, though it is proba
ble many more happened.
Jofiah Quincy, Esq. is appointed to de
liver the Town-Oration, on the 4th July.
BALTIMORE, May 26.
Extra 3 of a letter from capt. Liddle, of the
schooner Beaufort, dated at sea, 20th A
pril, 1798.
" This morning, in lat. 21, 38, long.
70, 16, E. at break of day a French pri
vateer appeared on my lee bow, which gave
:hafe to me. I set all the fail that lay in
ny power to get away from her, but it was
0 no purpose, for the wind was light and
ny veflcl deep loaded so that the enemy
:am.e up with me very (hortly, and continu
:d firing all fche time; at lalt I hove to and
et him come up, which he did, still contin
ling firing. As fogn as (he came up bis or
iels were, " Get <ut your boat you Amer- '
can b and come 011 board with your t
>apers'" which I d;d. As soon as I came (
inboard the captnin of the piivateer gave ,
irders that I (hould be tied to one of the |
pins and given four dozen lashes. There
veie a number of Englishmen on board the
irivateer. I reqnelt'ed to know for what I '
vas to be flogged—their answer was be
aufe I did not heave to when theyfiredthe j
irlt (hot. I allied him if the captain of an r
inglilh (hip was to give ch-fe to him if he 1
v.,uld heave to the firit fh .t ? he nfwrered 1
lew uld not, but it w,;s an imerican b a
lace to do it. However by-the intercef
ion of tl e Engliflin en 011 board his vefTel
nd my being*unwell, I was released from
he punishment. They the overhauled mv
lapers and searched the velTel, b oke open
he chtlts, &c. belonging to myfelf and th«t
and dole every thing they
hought would be of any service to them,
nfomuch that I have not a (hirt t > put on t
iy back ; they hauled off my old jacket,
roufers, flock ngs, and searched even ipy .
loes for papirs."
1 x trail of another letter from the fame gentle :
vian, dated Porto Riio, April 25.
'■ I have arrived in this port about 20 '
linutes ago. The owner of the privateer
vho took me has just been on bard j I f
fktd him what he was going to do with <
nc after bringing me intri this place, when [
was bound to a Frerch port ? His answer
ias, to condemn veflel and cargo, because *
had on board English nankeens. I then
fked him if he would be so kind as to let ,
ne have my own venture ? He answered t
ny venture was as > good a prize as the car- 1
;o ; and informed me I could stay on board '
10 longer than this night, b t that to
norrow morning I mult go on fliore. So '
hat.what I (hall do, God only
LANDIIiG~~ ~ 1
%
it Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the (
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
Master, from Bourileanx,
Ularerin in cases of
SVPF K tMR QUALITT, 1
Branny in Pipes,
•OK MLF.
Thomas & John Kelland.
Said Brig forfale with two y,air four pound can
on, and one p?'ir nib. carronudes.
may 29 5
%ijt oasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Mat 29.
Yederdiv arrived the brig Lovely Lass,
capt-.in t Tbonipfon, 32 daysfiom Madeira.
Wl\ilft captain Thompson Jay there, the
ship of Boil on, arr ved fr m Algiers,
lali from Gibraltar, having on boar the
crew of the Crescent frigate, who were re
turning home. The captain of,the Sarah
informed captain Thompftm, that just ofT
Madeira, he was fired at by a privateer, tin
ker Englifti colours, but he supposed flie
was French, from their calling to him in
bruken E-glifh to heave to. He accord
ingly flacked his com fe, but the privateer,
i 1 coming up, Hill continued firiiiJi and or
dered him to hoist out his boat and come
along foJe. This he rc/ufed to do, but told
the privateerfman that if he would come
along fide his veflel, he would shew him his
papers and give him all necefTary fntisfac
tion. Upon this the privateer discharged a
broadside into the ship, which did no other
damage than cutting some of the rigging,
The' guns of the Sarah were soon brought
to bear, and Hie returned thefdute with as
warm a broadside, which the privateer not
liking altogether, * thought it moil prudent
to sheer yrf.
The vapouring 9 of poor Sttrgo us profim and
his party remind one of the Bjloonift who, af
ccnd:n» in his machine, with tlae pompous mot
to, ii Jic itur ad aflrawas prefehtly dropped
upon the earth and fluttered to pieces.
" Rife," cries Bsche, "-ere it be too late"—
Rife, and redress your wrong*: But ah ! he
cries in vain. The cruel Aate of his party re
femblgp that of a wounded serpent ; which, in
attempting to ascend a precipice, is hurled con
tinually lower. Not all the malice of all ill
stars combined, can raise again his powers to
that " bad eminence," whence towering virtue
lately hurled thrm. If Bache is ever exalted, it
will be to the flation of Frometheus, where the
excruciating vulture cf public scorn, 44 tundens
tmmoiHcle jscur," will amply punish the dif*
grace and injuries heaped on his country, by the
venality, perfidy ar.d malice o£ a base and un
natural miscreant.
An unhappy man put a period to his exigence
a few days iince, in a fit of despair, by taking
Laudanum. The frequency of suicides and
murders, is become an abuudant and diftrefiing
fjurce of lamentation. These are the firft fruits
of French principles—the natural and inevitable
.emanations of that philosophy, which teaches
us tofubftitute passion for reason, and a visiona
ry and fantaftic compound 6f atheififi vanity
aiid vice, for a pore and rational morality. Be
fore w.e knew the contaminating influence of,
these corrupt difcipJe9, we were a free, a virtu
ous and a happy people. Here man raised not
his callous hand against himfelf—much less
against his neighbor. But alas ! qu& domustam
■l*bilis ? After corrupting our virtue, by the
maiign influence of their manners and principles
theitep was.(h.'it to undermining our freedom.
Tije magnanimous constancy of a few in refill
ing their wiles alone saved us. In order to re
main secure from future aflaults, We must be
called back to our primitive purity. A people
whose manners and principles are loose and cor
rupt, can never long enjoy freedom. Virtue is
the ouly solid foundation for liberty and happi- ,
ness.
" Tho 9 fortune's blackefljlorms rage on his house,
The man whose pious foul re veres the Gods y
Affutnes a confidence, and juflly ; for
The good at length obtain the meed of virtue :
But th 9 unholy wretch, such is his nature,
Never can be happy 9 '
All history teaches us, that noextenfive eon
queft can be long maintained bv violence ;ind op
prefiion.: the whole art of the iftolt fuccefsiul
conquerors has accordingly been exerted in pre
venting the conquered from realizing any eflen
tial change in their habits, manners, laws, re
ligion and government. Every deviation from
this policy, has eventually produced infurreftiojis
changes, and oftener more fatal
the vitfor. jTfye cafe of the Helots is an instance
peculiarly in point ; and the continual state «>f
jlarm and apprehension with which they reveng
d their oppreflions on their arc a
Itrong evidence of the danger of carrying the
right of conquest to unnatural lengths. ' So lon£
<l9 man continues the slave of his passions, so
long will his nature remain repugnant to that
rule of morality which commands oblivion of
injuries No nation has more terribly fuffered
than France, from the operation of revtnge,
animated into fury by infufferabje extortions and
"ipp. eflions. Ihe Sicilian Vespers, and v-rious
>ther incidents, at an earlier*period of her hif
rory, as well as since, hold our to her the most
frightful warnings of the danger into which (he
lias, notwithstanding, again plunged herfelf, of'
ounting too much 011 the dep efii >n of a van
quished foe. From the very nature of mm. it
s> impolTible that her incautious and oppreflive
policy, can fail of drawing down upon her de
voted head, a retribution tremendous and severe;
this day of judgment is liable to procradination
by the operation of various causes ; buttheJon
ger the hour of retribution i 3 put off, the more
hravily will the vengeance fall, Judging from
part experience, her conquests must very l'peedi
ly be difiipated. Av quifitions io extensive, hare
rarely been lo The immense
empire raised by Philip of iVacedon, in a very
few years, vaniifeed iike a dream. The exten
sive inn ads of the barbarians, were soon put a
Hop to, and terminated in many instances, in
their own subjugation. All past experience con- '
firms the fail, that re-a&ion agai ;lt ambition
and rapacity, is as natural and inevitable as the
as the return of a pendulum in its vibrations.—
At times, indeed, this rc-a<fl;on is rendered so
remote, by the intervention of incidental causes
that the connexion is loft to inattentive minds :
In the instance of France, there is every ground
to believe this will not be the cafe. So rapid
and incautious has been ber rrmrche viSorieufe,
thatlbe has not waited to confirm one flep, be
fore (he has advanced with another : this addtd
to the unexampled rapacity and oppreflio 1 exer
cised over al! her conquests, her preposterous
vanity, in impaling her own motley creed, her
uncouth code, and her difgufling and offenfive
manners, upon the miserable vi&ims of her am
bition ; all conspire to ensure the rapid recoil
of juit and rigorous revenge. Her immense
colossal fabric of conquest, reared on the ru'.ns
ot humanity and reason ; that monstrous ?nd ill
conne<9ed form, whose gigintjc strides, disdain
ing alj constraint, she is now leeking to d»re<s\
across " the main of waters," requires a less fee
ble shock to overturn it, than is generally imag
ined. Framed I y accident, and adapted only
f the temporary use of roocnihine tyrants, the
firft rode blow must scatter the dis/unfia membra,
and thf firft 1.-wd storm diftblvc tjiem, like
fleer;r.j fttiric of a vftion.
44 Te good ye ruble few,
Who i w ten.binding /land benefitb life's t>reffurv 9
Tet bear up a what your bounded view
(Which ovly Jaw a little part J deem d evil 9
Is no more."
MR. PK N NO,
The jyfti. e due to the B/Itifh government for
the promptness and equity of decifions on
American claim*, when supported hy
documents, induces me to request you to
in your paper th* following cafe :
In January last I tranfmittcd a claim for a loss
on a quantity of Hour, which being destined to
a French" purt then declared to be in a Hate of
blockade, was taken arid the flour fold at a Bri
ti'h port. This biifmefs was referred to the gen
tlemen to whom caf sos this del'cription ar
ajjreed to he referred and on the l?th February,
(not much more than a month from the day of
( the Pa ket leaving New-York) an award iflued
I in my favor.
j Whenever the French go ,v crument give me ;
; the opportunity I shall w;th pleasure give them
; equal credit—but ala* ! where are the grounds
for such an expectation—if I look to the d'.f
patches from our Commiflioners, fhill I find it
there ? A Merchant of Philadelphia.
MR. FES NO,
The following note was received this morn
ing from the Author of the Poem, entitled
44 The Aliens with a rtqwjl, that it
' Jhould be publtjhed, to prevent the trouble of
"application.
Tour's, reffefffully, J. 0.
Mr. O RMRod will V>e so good as not t'>
deliver any more copies of the poem entitled
44 The Aliens.*' It was a hasty pro
dilution, and committed to the press on the
spur of the occasion. lam advised, in a
manner too delicate and interfiling to be
negle&cd, that, this performance nterits a
revifal ; and will bear the delay of a few
weeks.
Your very humble fervent,
H. MARSHALL.
May. 29th, 1798.
•CONGRESS.
Yesterday, in the House of Representatives
of the United States, the Clerk having re
ceived information of the indisposition of the
Speaker, and of his being unable to attend
his duty, announced it to the house, and on
motion of Mr. D. Fostfr, the members
present proceeded to the choice ot a Speaker
pro tempore t when Mr. Dent was cholen, by
a large Majority, there being 51 votes for
him, and only two or three feathering votes
for four or five other members. Mr. Dent
took the chair accordingly. Tlie following
resolution was proposed by Mr? Harper.
44 Refolded that it is expedient to suspend alt Commer
cial Intersourfe betiveen the United Stater and the French
Republic, or ber poffejjions, until an adjujlment of the ex
iting differences betiveen the tivo powersJhall be effected"
At the requeftof Mr. M'Dowell this re
solution was ordered to lie upon the table till
to-morrow. The House went into a commit
tee of the whole on a report of the Commit
tee for the protettion of Commerce and the
Defence of the Country, proposing an arrange
ment in one corps of the Marines who are or
shall be engaged in the service of she United
States, and by annexing them to theexifting
Military Establishment j to consist of a Major,
and suitable commiflioned and non-commiffi
onedofficcr.s,soo privatesandtheneceflarymufi
cians,whichwasagreedto, & abillorderedtobe
reported accordingly. The house afterwards
went into committee of the whole on the bill
to amend the Port Office and Port Road Law,
on which they fpentthe remainder of the fit
ting* and had leave to fit again.
The following Ticket is proposed to the fubfcri
bers to the Permanent bridge over Schuylkill,
at the Ele&ion to be held at the State House
on 31ft may instant *t 10 o'clock in the morn-,
ing : president,
Richard Peters.
dikectors,
John Perot J o k n Dunlap
Mat hew McConnell Samuel Blodget
IVdl,am £heaf John Dorfy
j William Nathan Sellers
! y°f e P h Anthony J o hn Miller S. 'C.
Lebert Raljlon Da fid Evans junr.
treasurer,
Richard H. Morris.
may 29 d 3 t
GAZETTE MARINETFST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
DAYS.
Ship Nancy, Joy, London
Manclicfter. Baker Liverpool
Brig I ov«ly Las«. i hempfon Madeira 32
Clarifla, Brtwton Burton 12
Sch'r Poll, Huggins Jeremie
Yeatman, Crane, St. Jago de Cuba
Fair American, Simpf'on, N. Carolina 4
Regulaior, Doe do. , 4
Thomas, Tatem do 1 4.-
Two Sifters, Aldridge do.
Hazard, Weftcott do. 4
Sloop Patriot, Mason, do. 4
JA '.he Fort.
Ship Ha-mony, Willington Jamaica
Schr. Friends, Burton tiavanna
Ranger, Green do
(. LEAKED.
Brig PctfV, lienfcn Hamburgh
Molly, Bray Alexandria
Lydia Tupper, Freeman St. Ai>d cws
Nova Scotia
Mars, Barflon New Bed ord
Schr. Hope, Herbet New Yoik
Weymoutli. Allen do
Sloop Mary, L'Hommedicu do
Maria, King d 0
Eliza, Barnard Nantucket
The fchr. Triton, Thornton, from Go
naives to this port, is taken by the St. Al
bar.s, man of war, and lent fefc.Halifax, and
the floi;p Dolphin, Holt, from I.eopane to
this port is captured and sent int.i Port an
Prince, papers gone to the Mole for triah
Nfiv-Toik, Maj 28.
Arrivfd, DAYS.
Ship Jcanes, , Savannah jfc
Schr. Clara, Hill, Jam,..ca 22
Sloop , Phipp», Chat IcOon XI
The fchr. Cla-a, capt.Uil), from Savannah-la-Mar,
fays, the brig yl'itMam', <f Boston, cap: Dcm;ch,
loil fevera! hands whi'" Jhc lay at the ba*bW ot Bloc-
Fields, 10 Jamaica He was ve/\ ill but ucoveieo
and (a*led the-ad of May for BnOon.
Last even icmoLder ot the convoy arrived
here, v:z.
The Ships AllSar.cc. Wnor!—America. MaUibv
Severn, GcodricU—D>fpa;ch, Cirptu er—acd Swan.
Woodha®— it''fom LitfTjOolj hiring eft the S:-
•*'»«» «i«v t(W . .. io'ftoii ...j
,wi;h ihc ftiT. De;; -ht, ol 'lm p .ri P.. . ■ in.
i h*' erton »rilt I* ntC*u, ioi Virgin!., .art <SIT
iliccoir«-tr f* rhe Dtl.-ire. t'.e (hip, Cl>'.m
MmcnC'lpr an t armed drip N'.n vof frr'-ni, ill
lor Phi art- )pS. .
Off the C j i f Virpiwa, flic St. Mbani'ca? ur
cii an trmttl fch i'.n r. wkh'• Piii. d-ljliia" ictic r 1
on hti (Icrn, fu p',fcd tobe a J.'inch p:tv.eer, |h>
having just bcfcrc fired a i;tin at a bri rt I 111 I.i'lr-
Yortt—afier whie\ fS* hufted ibe Amcnc.n fl
:ad ran down into the fleet. -f-iv*
t Bojlon, Mnf 23. 'jj
Arrived, Ship Britan- ia, Beale, Sttrinanl,
22 Jays. Left there ship Mnry. Culhing
for Bolton ; fnovr Hope, Reed, do ; fci.r.
H.ltcr, Delano, for do* brig Bacifip Tra
der, Seymour, for do. in 2 days ; (hip
1 nomas, Chalkley, f r Philadelphia ; brig
Experiment, Hef»,<Jo..brig.Betfey, Moody,
for Alexandria, last faom Cayenne, having
fold a grea' pnrt of his cargo to the French
government for bills on the govirftment of
Szrinam, which refufe 1 to pay them hav
ing no funds of the French in pofleffion j
brig Rebecca, I'enner, for Providence ; (hip
gen Green, Brown, for do. brig Friends,
Conklin, New-York j brig Saily, Hodg
kins, New-London j brig Hannah, JcfFerj,
do. beig Rofanna, Archer, Salem ; fclir.
Diaraond, Readi g. do. brig Hannah, Fol
latifijee, Knverhill ; (loop T«wnfead| Cemp
bell, of Wifiafl" t, for New Yark. The
Governor of Surinam, has granted conyoy
io such Dutch veflels as are capable of
j mountingguns, and ma ninnr their 'iliips.—
| April 28, was b arded by "the En.'.lifh fri
| g ite Scipio, who very itridly examinedcaptj
I B's papers, broke open fev.ral letters and
after a detention of 4 hours, permitted t6
proceed.
American produce remarkably low—fait
fi.n from 12 to 16 dls* per bhd, Horringt,
3dls. bell: beef 12 and 13 j bell Pork, 22
and 25 J Boa-ds 20 dls. m. Shingles \ and
2 in.—Dry goods rcmarkaVly plenty and
cheap.
Charlrjlon, May
®apt. Hooper hss brought from ! hila
delphia, 1800 (lond of'arms, with their ac
coutrements, and a quantity of cartridges,
for the use of fche militia of this llate.
There were lix veficls to tire
Southward of the bar lall evening ; capt.
Hooper spoke one, which is from Leghorn,
eight weeki out ; there appeared to be two
ftiips ; the remainder brigs.
WAtfOLE, (N. H j IVhf ai.
INADIN-'S aBROAD*
The Sicilian peafan ry haveiifeu in rebellion aga-nfl
their lord#; and claflkal groves re found, rat»*r with
the bray of (he revolutionary cla'ioft, than with thd
" amorous descant" of the nighting» c
It is said, by the French, that the ntw government
of Rome is a tranfeript of the ancien r dltcipline of
that city. It may begov;rned by nominal con us* a d
piaior*, but Juliut Cftfar and Cicero, cou d they be
invoked from the (hades, would groan at behnldinp*
such a traveftie of the Augustan age.—*fn the Pope'#
coffers two millions were tound, to gratify the rapa
city of the French robbers. Thisfum was purloined
ttanfmitted to gen* B- rthier, the b »ld Robin
hood of his banditti MoA of facrcd co c'avd
have been seized and sent prisoners to Avignon.
Grave and inoHFenfive priefls are the peculiar obj cia
of the malice of a Fie cbnqn After ftnvir.g to
blot out'the fui of righteousness from the w jrld. it
is only proceeding in charafler to degrade the adhe
rents to religion. To a furious jacobin the purple
robes of authority ahd the pure vellm:Disof the prielfc
are equally hateful.
In the Batavian republic another niut conttitution is
projefting, Under the direflion ol French jnafhsf
workmen, it is artonifhing wiih what facility forms
ol government may be manufactured. They can
make a code, as eahly ps one of their taiiors can
make a coat- A declaration of nights may be tr.ac'c
in]the fame time that is required to few on a barton.
Ten British (hips of war ars on the Amencint
coast 111 quell of the cruisers from ce The
reign of depradaiion is nearjy over ; captain Kidl will
soon be taken and hanged. If mod rn government
IhouM adopt the policy of. Hired, ail cnncenied in
French privateeiing, and robbery upon the high teas
would be seized and executed, as ihc common enemies
of mankind.
■£/*''! he lit J loop oK Philadelphia Cavil ry
will meet cn the ' arade in uniform, next TMURo-
OAY ar 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
0* The id Troop of Phi
parade on THURSDAY n- xt, at the Upj erVcrry
orvSchayiki'tl, at 3 o'clock P.M. The frooptts
are requeftcd to be punctual in their attendance,
and pay ilrivSl attention to be in co np : cti uniforra.
ABRAHAM SINGER, capt.
VOl UNTEER GREENS.
The troop will parade, an THURSDAY
nekr, at 3 o cioctc P. M. in Walnat flrcet, near
Schuylkiii, in complete tiaiforni ; the gentlemen
will be punctual. JOHN MQRRELL, capt.
' NOW LANDINGS
From on board the brijr Amiable Matilda, from
Buurdeaux, and for sale by the fublcriber,
88 % caflcs CLARET
1 72 do. do. of a fupefior quality
a trunks grer'n PAR.ASOI.S.
Tbom asMu ■ gatroyd, >
No. ii, Waiiuii-ttreet.
rrno fits on hand,
White Wine in half Calks
Sweet Oil of a fupcrior quality, ia I
1 oxes and baflcets
I.unelle f Fn(itler) t.
Sautcrne / < Drawback.
Ir.Qi Market > WINES in Cases
Macarty and 1
Medrc J j
Rota Wine,in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
_ n - a y 29- corltf
TO BF SOLD, LET,
Or exchanged for property in the city of
Pkiladelph ia.
A Valuable Two Story St ne HauTcy ard lot
or piece of ground, in .PoitsTown, in the
county of Montgomery. The houfc is in good
repair, and the lot made inlo a ufefnl parden j
there arc a number of.good fruit trees therein,
the fitua'ion !s nigh and healthy and oue of the
l-eft 'for any kim! of bofinefj in the tour, pol
iclTion will be immediately—for term .-p.
P>y to William Nickels
No. 117, Kaccjfrret.
may 29
T_ FOi< LlVKk}^ooj_,
jVI THE BEIT
liberty;
liaac Vreden, Mafte!,
5? A good new vessel, fail# Vnll—^
Lyif.g ti Cli(for<3't Wnarf, will I >1 about thf.Q
next month, a confiderablr of h<p- Ca/yo bvia
engaged*—For iieigh? c pilT eaoj!, to
JOHN SKYRI|J,
No. 96, Worth Front St net.
N. B. Li B£rt y is inter ded to recuta one of
the fifft fall vefialsto this port.
I 29 * defMadras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of iht Dfwcft and moll approv«d patterns, entitled
to the drawback, ju(t received,
AM* roa SALE ST
Alex. J. Miller V C».
No. 64, South Front ftrcet.
may tB, S
cy IF Mr. Charles William &lemekc>
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for
some part of tlte United States of America, in
the year 17969 be living:, and will apply person
ally or by Inter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to MelTrs. Isaac Hazlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of foroething great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpe£\-
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klcmcke,
would be thankfuliy received*
may 19 djw
FOR SALE.
A neat Country lioufe,
THREE and a half miles from the city, on
the Wiflahicon road, with feventee* and a
half acret of land, half in orchard and half in ,
graft. Apply-to Edward BonsallJc Co.
in Dock-street, or to the fubferiber at Mount
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the preniifes
Jonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
WH4 not be for sale during the season.
may T9 6tf
Very Or eat Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muflini, now felling off and well
worth rhe attention of Housekeepers to make
purchafc of——Enquiie of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jireet.
may 17 | $
Military Colours,
FAINTED ON SILK— by
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a ftilc which will endure *he hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and whrch for neatness
and exaditude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS anp DRTJM§
Furnished with dispatch, on tha mod moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Sign's,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that fupcb stile
o£ modem elegance, which, Mr. Rater pledgns
himfeli from »o years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hi« friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpcciraen's may be teen at their
Painting Room, Nor ris's Court, of the Naw
Library.
m*y d6w
* NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
Gullager, in tfcrros derogatory of our pro
fcffional abilities, we have to request the public '
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as if is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ©f cflaMifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and cngrofiing that bufineXs which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull
govern, we flatter ourCelves that \he work execut
ed by us will convince them of our grpat superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
fijy of juiging for themselves.
K. B. In future no attention will be paid to th;
felf flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS tfnd
DRUMS will please apply to Gio. Rotter and
Co. Nprris' Court, or Henry Irailey, Gcrmax
town. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends* Meeting.
PAINTING on Dlks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of defigß, truth and baauty of
colouring, neatnsfs and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished w ; th all pofiiblc dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
eti, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tift master of hi? proreffion.
Mr. Gwllager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&aality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who will please to ell at his Paint,
ng Rooms. §6w may j.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maherly manner, will no
doubt feel themftlve* obliged for the kind can ion
jfiven by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf
flartering advextifements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —favethefpoil-
ine Of good silks by Gorge Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contra3ing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown- may 10.
Forty Dollars Reward. .
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glojjpxu, perhaps he may pass
by the name of GhfprwLLe t or may change his
name; he is about thirty age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a fmallpart being bitten ou: between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pad : he is a ft out, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years': he
went away in" company with a negro woman of
Mr.JofhuaLingoe,of this,county. Itialuppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secure- said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfeiiber ihaJl get him again. £all receive the
above reward. £SM& BAYLY.
State of Maryland,
S o merfct County, apfil to. j may 4. —
For bale,
A Farm and CovjtTxr Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Morris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 19$ ac es ot land, 5c
of which are woodland, aboir, 40 of meadow, and
the reti arable land. The houfc and garden which is
larg* and well Hand in the molt pieplant fix
ation, commanding a view of tho river, an ilLiu*
which "noppofite. and the village of Norris town—
There is a lh-d fifhen belonging to tie place —En
ouire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
01 en the premises.
spril sawtf
1 TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the AGt of Cmigref* palled on the Cith day of July one thousand seven hundredand
uir/cty-fcven, entitled 11 An A>fl laying dutiei on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ad pafldd on the fifteenth day of Oec.mber, «ne thousand feTen hundred and nMicty-fcvcn, entitled
11 An ASt to poftponc for a limited time the commencement of the dutic* imposed by the \ol enti
tled " An AJk Laying Dutiei on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of Julyenf.ing, the fcveralStampcd Outlet h.realter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States. .
For every.ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or pitw of Paper, «pon which (hall be
written or printed any or eitker of the inllrumeott .r writings . ollowing—to wit:
' 'Dh Cu. | Mil
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - I j
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admi(Tion,enrolmeiit er regiftryof |
any Coanfellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodtor, in any Court of the
United Slates, - - lo
Provided, that a Certifieste in any one of the Cburts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
dutyafsrefaid, be a fufficient admiffiin in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
A*y Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military fervicts) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept fer lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottrmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or o» accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or ®-
ther testamentary instrument, or for any (hare or p-irt of a perfool estate di
vided by force ot any statute of diftributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grandchildren of the person deceaferf, the amount whereoffliall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - 15
When the amount thereof flull exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrod dollars, - - J" .
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of I
Any Policy of lnfurance or inftrwment in nature thereof, on any fljip* veflcl or'
goods insured from one diftritSl to another in the United States, 15
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whidi
lnfurance is made lhall not exceed five hundred dollars, - »5
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, • j
Any Exemplification, of what nature focver, that (hall pass the seal of atvy
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifti for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any flon-1, hill (ingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promilTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United Slates or any state, or for their
uferefpeflively, -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and nit exceeding five hundred dollar*. jj
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand d hilars, 50
«And if above one thousand dollars, - - - 75
Provided, that if any bond* or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 1 4
If above one hundred dolljrs and not exceeding five hundred dolUi », I in
If above fivt hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I 10
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Nutes ifTued by the banks now eflablilhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
liflied within the United States, other than the notes of luch of the said Banks
as (hall agree tnu annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedlively, according to
the following fcate.. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - »
Ob ill notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dolUrs, 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... I
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - »
Any Protell Notarial a<9, .... 45
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penGon, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States ?s bounty for Military services
performed in the late war, - - 15
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cufloms or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - - l
For five hundred dollars anl not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollars, ... j
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
H' from one diftriS to another diftriil of the United States, not b«ng in the
fame State, - - - t»
If from the United States to any foreign port or plaee, - - 13
Any Inventory or Catalogue «f any furniture, goods or effects, made in any
cafe required by law, ( except in cases of goods and chattels dillrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any lnfurance Company, »f a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of a»y State or other Ban It,"
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, • 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colleSed and received by the Supcrvifors, TnfpeiSorj aud other Officer
of InfpeAion, in the several DiftriiSs Surveys and Oivifioos of the United States, and by such other
perfonsas (hall from t» time be specially appointod and employed by tile Supcrvifors of Diftriils for
that' purpose.
111.
The Supervif.rs of the fsveral Diflri<9s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon »s
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Velkim, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties t Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper ti.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, he ob
tained at the rate's prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeilor, Officer of InfpeAion,
or other pstCon appointed for the diltributioa of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Dillricls
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year -ifavemcntiorcd. I
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanadl of Congrcfs pafied on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft pafled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a£t laying duties on flampei vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on dehenture® or certifi
cates For the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed. •
A clifcount at the rate of fevfn and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or lDfpe£\orßvrefpe<slively, to any perfon6 other
than Officers of the Revenue, who njay pur
chase at one time or procure to be ftamped,any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
whieh the duties ffcall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
in.
Stamped Paper, will b« provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each flcin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eaeh skin of
Vellum of medium size, u hich may be furniHi
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity-
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abevementio^ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To beLLett t
(And poffeflion given on the ift o'f May)
A genteel three flory brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftibles.at prtfsnt in the tenure of Major Jack
som. Enquire at 187 So*th Third street.
April t. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND POR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
f Price IS Centt)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
OF TMK CONDUCT OF TffS KXSCUTIfftB t
As publifhcd in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the Ognature of
SCIPIO, :
Im zvlicZi tie Commercial Warfare of Franct it traced
to the French Fa&ion in thi* Country, at its Ssurce,
and tie Aftlivet #/ QfJ>ofitiotr t ifc.
RIVED,
JUST A
In the (hip Phcenix, capt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
2 box sSiamois I hhd.Hogs Bridles, ill
3 < o. Haarlem Strmes quality
3 do. Checks, No. i 2 do. do. li do;
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, aud
Cream Cheese in prime 11 chests firft quality Red
order for exportation Crust
a Lao,
Just Received, via Baltimore, See.
Sc bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
TQ hale* German Oznahrigs
30 bales brown Rolls, and Heflins
25 bales Polish do. fkiuble for coffee and cotton
bags
ao bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached He flans
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces vladraf* Handkerchiefs
1 shell Tapes, No. 13, 25, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Glaf», 7 by 9, 8 by 10, 9ky
11, 10 by 12, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
20 chests plain and flowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking Glafic«, assorted "
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Port
A few quarter caflcsShfrry ( ~/ IVi we
60 cases White ( W,NES
2<50 boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
300 small boxes Russia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 caiks Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yellow stone Ochre
15 lccgs Pearl Barley
2 hoglheads Madder
1 chest aflorted Quills
6 bales YVriting Paper
10 chests Slates and Pencils
20 trunks Mens' and Womens* Shoes
60 Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do filhinjjand blocking Twine
2 chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Demijohns
A quan Ity of stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Englifk Chariot and Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, See.
The above Goods are jjemjrall/ entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the East India market, and
will be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
april 16. t£i»c N®. yj, Nwth Watcr-ftreet.
The following Certificates of |
FUNDED DEBT Of THE UNITBDSTATtS |
STANDING on the Books of thetreafury, w«re
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath b-.cn captured, .
and the Certificates supposed to btt loft, vix :
3*64. Si. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward diddy, of I hrcdrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 4, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,07 a.
Son. 15. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
36x0. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning* ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797* No
10199.
10183. 74. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Maihew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow* dated OS&obcr 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificate*, ap
plication it intended to be made at the f id office of
ihe Tjeafury of the United Statue,—and all per
font concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO—IN THE SA»E V E 8 S F L,
Fifteen /hares Storkof the JJank of United States in
thename of William Manning,of Ormiby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, via. Three Certificates
for five (hare* each, dated January l, 1797-
No. 2598*, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is*meant to
he made to the said Bank of the United Stare*,—'
and all persons concerned therein arc defircd to
take notice.
JN. FAUGH AM.
Philadelphia, may 4. »6w
The following Certificates of Shares
JN the North American Land Company, Handing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—via. No 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No.Blso —l3o66 to
13075. ten (harts—No. 2149—1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 td li<>B, ten (hares
—No. 2:47 —11471 to 11480—Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by
(hp Willsam Pern, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to l>e 101 l ; !or the r«
newal of which, application will made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
may I *«l6w
TO BE SOLD,
4*0,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene ounty, Commonwealth of Peanfyl
vania, on the water* of Fiih and Wheeling
Greeks and Ten Mil? Rnn.
l hefe l.ands arc fertile and wcH timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ->golor
five shillings per acre ; patented early in ex
cept 370 acres, which were' ptftentud in 1791 ;
part of them were surveyed in 178;. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town o4 WasHington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greentfburgh and Wheeling
On payment of one lourth of rhepurchafe mo
ney, a rcafonatle credit will be given for the refi
dne. Enquire of the Printer.
april 11.
W IO BE SOLD,'
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of Kew York, between tk" northern
bounds of Pennfyivania and the Sufqoehanna
or late in the townfiiips of Harodcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, f-om thtir quality and situation,
are a very definable objeft for any man who means
to invest his money tp advan'age
On paymcilt of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will'« given for the re.fi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april it. $
Country Reiidence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wish to receive two or three genteel boaid
e re. The Hmiife i-» haadfomely tsrmfhcd; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well flocked with the ehoiceft Fruit.
Tnerd are fever a 1 MuGcal Instruments, amongst
which is a moil excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family ha ve a handfoir e Coach, which may be at
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
-the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
. environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the pffic« of this Ga
zette. dtf y may 16.
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
P*HE Subfcribrrs being the fix persons firft named
JL in the Letters Patent, iflTued by the Governor
of thisCotnmooweal.h, by virtue of the A& of Gen
eral Assembly *f the 16th ult. for incorpora ing the
Company —hereby give notice agreeable to the 3d
fc£tionof the said law, that they have appointed, and
hereby rtqueft a meeting of the fuhlcribers at the
Stat< Haul- in the City of Philadelphia, 00 the thirty
firil day ofthiainftant May, at ten o'clock to the
forenoon, for the purposes mentioned in the said 3d
fc&ion, which 11 hereafter published for the inform
ation ot the Stockholders.
liichard Peter J,
Jobu Perott,
Matthew M'ConneH,
William Sbeaff %
George Bickbam>
WtUiam Nichols.
Philadelphia, til May, 1798,
Se&ion 3, And be it further cnafltdby the authority
afertjaidy That the fix Perfor»s firft named in the Let
ters Patent, (hall as soon as c nveniently may be af
te« tame, give notice in two or more pab
lwjNews Papeis to Philadelphia, one whereof (hall
be in the German Language of a time and place by
them to be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time •( tlTuing the firft notice, at which time and
place the said fubfenbera (hall proceed to organize the
said Corporation and (hall choose by a majority of
votes of the laid fubfcribeis by ballot, to be delivered
in Person or by Proxy, duly authorized—one Presi
dent, twelve Dirc&ors, one Treasurer, and such other
officers as they (hall thinktoeceffary toconduft the bu
fwefsol the laid Company for one year, and until o
her officers (hall bechofen, and may make such bye
laws, rules, Orders and regulations, not inconsistent
with the laws of this Commonwealth, as (hall be ne
ccflary for the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany .' Provided always, that no person (hall have
more than fifty voteaat any ele&ion or in determining
any qufftion arising at such meetings whatever num
ber of (hares he or (hs be enttled to, and thrt each
person (ball be entitled to one vote for e very (hare
by him or her held nder th? said numb cr »
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats dtawing fix fee* water can go
lrom this,place. It will oftei) suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters directed to the fubferifeer at this
place, and put into any pod office in thd United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended tp. Those whowi(h to contrail in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gidion Hill
Wells, No. 135, Market-street. The fubferiber
is desirous of contra&ing with some refponfiblc
person in Philadelphia, to receive and difpofs of for
him, on commi(fion, a quantity of twr> feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feec and eighteen
inofces, for exportation.
William mi Wells,
Dag&Qrough, irate of Delaware,
april 18. aaw4w
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BZURDEjIUX,
consittiMo or
Clarot in hhdi.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olivet, Anchovies and PruAea
sOl SAlrf IT
7 bomat Fitxfimons
may 26.
FOR SALE.
>T Til IVJICIIIIII,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, frem Bengal.
Gunmhi, wkiic Guzaies
Ditto, blue Guzsenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorah* Mow Sasnaa
Mamoodiea Penialcoe*
Tickiriet Baftas
Romalls Coffaa
Doreaa Tanjefes
Chintz M.'ldaClotht
Saul Gaasica Carwah Cloth#
An elegant ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
B< narcs SUG.nR
COTTON and GINGER
K Mor dee at Lenvu.
may 2,5. um ;awiir
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN sway, last from the Subscriber,
liring in York Town, Hfnnlylvai.ia, a
German Servant man, mmcd John Nicholas
Kolb, a tayl.ir by trade abrutjo years cf age
and about 5 lect 2 inches hiph, has brown curled
hair, and nearly bald «.n his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a Oik velvet cape and a dark
blue '-''at with steel buttons, a gitrrn mixtured
cloth jacket, cloth colored thickset jiautal >ons*
new rorum hit, cloi ded cotton dockings and
calf (k ; n (hoct with firings. He is a good fchol
hi in the German t' ngue and (peaks Etjglifh ;
i is likely he may lurk in and ah at the city of
Plu'adrlphi a« he has acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and I'ecure* fiid fervantia
any t;oal so that his mister can have him ayain,
Ihall have the above reward paid by jne,
Thomas Oioenr.
may i\ *diw
Rob'l 'st Smith isf Ce.
No. 58, South Frent-Jirect.
Ha*ve received bythefhip from
London, a quantity of knffia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, See.
And by tke Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Giafgow, an aiTortntrnt of Si otch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeen*,
Luteflring*, and a variety of India Muilins.
2* ' diw
• 30 Dollars Reward.
rHE Cellar of the Subfcnbers was
open last night, and feveril pieces of Stor
raoum ground Chintz of a let figure were ear
ned off. k. hoeverwil! apprehend the thief or
thieves, or the go»>ds, shall receive the
above reward, or in proportion %for any part
thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
No jS South Front-Jlreet.
may %i daw
A few boxe* of Umbrellas
To be sold cheap—' by
Mordttai Lewis.
mty if diw
Ross & tiIMSOA,
HAVa FOR SALE,
12 bales fupcrior JVladrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, fir. quality
A few hales taf tai, CoHa#i, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxaa
Jamaica and") „ M
Bengal J RUM
»yi' * $
For Sale,
TbecargoofthebrigAroericanfromLaguira,
CONSISTING or
Ca'accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 11 a, South Foutrh Street.
April 13 k §
Frefli I eas.
JuJ Imported, in the Jhip Delaware t
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Salt, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Coiiptiag House, N#. 54, Chefnut.ftreet,
AVD BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, affected ; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattiiis, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey heme also Fit Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs*
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. $
Now Opening,
At Willi a mM'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general aflortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London*
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Cover*, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartourh Boxes, Va
licea. Saddle Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to his busi
ness, offers this Eilate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces*
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also » good Forge, all
in perfeft repair,!s are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Fnrnace*
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannoir
for thi« State.—There are abour two thoufaod acre*.
of Land, one half of which is uudcr wood, thcothex
very fine arable Land, producing the beit Hay and
Pafiure. The Cannon lately mannfadtMrcd there*
tu{ly proves the excellency of tbe metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to a»y in the worjd,; for not ouc of (sxty-nine
lately made* although some of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ»
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manutafturr, arid a place of arms lying in the stats*
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, an 4 having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with ail the stock and utensils, and have pofleflioa
on or before the firft of June next, aod preparation
may be made in the meantime forgoing into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec* Sic. For
terms, apply to Mr. JofepN Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Efq,. one of the ReprefentaHve*
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepremifea, or totheproptietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOX.
Dee. (. 31 wU