as tfje States, A Ni. Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMBlJt 1699.J
FOR SALE,
■v* J&*. The Schooner
THREE SISTERS,
\^ifyßurthen 85 tons, two years olj
built of the heft materials, and now
r tady to receive *<**%»■ Said vessel may be view-
e d at Mr. Samu cl Brewer's wharf, Keiitmjtou.
ALSO,
HARRIET,
Burthen 77 tons, three years
old, it well found ; may be view
ed at Messrs. Pettel and Bayard's wharf.
Those Veflels are well calculated fur Coasters,
and hara been employed in the trade between Phi
ladelphia and New-Yoik—They have excellent ae
uonnnudaiions for Paflengers.
Far terms, apply to
Gurney y Smith.
Feb rusry 16.
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
MAY* FOR SAL*,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe dp. in pipes
014 Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarter! and eighths of cherts
Sail Canvafi, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges luitaWe far the Weft-India market
Nails aborted
Black quart bottles
Qiieens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in talks ;
And at New-York, on b'oard the
ftiip Diana, from Livtrpocl, expedled round
as l'onn as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coats
Spanish Brown 1
Venetian Red I
Purple Brown { p AINT 4
Patent V\ hit* j
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colrotbar vitriol
160 bundles Sbe»tfcing papur
Seaming T.wire
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Chat tee,
ALSO,
N. B. The late firm of Philip NicVlin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN (if GRIFFITH.
January i. ' eodtf
For Savannah,
- The fajl failing S hip
swif r packet,
Patrics Grib»en, majler,
WILL fail on the loth iiift.
(ice permitting) has handsome accommodations
tor palTengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the matter on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Market-llreet, or
N. £s> J. Frazitr,
No. 95, South Front-ftrret.
Febjpary f
For Amtterdam,
J The Ship
FARMER,
John M'CollOm, Matter;
•siV WILL fail in a few days, the
+i£Kx>S£j3tff greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
paflage, apply to the matter on board, at Wal
nut-kreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it larding, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and forfale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, us a fapcrior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in cafe*
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
7 be Snow
GOOD HOPE
clrr y a ' soUt 11°° barrels, and
'*r*ady totakein a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers Sff Co.
No. iji, South Second-ttreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Flax Seed tor sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-street.
January 17 §_
Boston Glass Manufactory.
r P l HE citizens of the United States are hereby
A informed, that the manufa.9ure of Window
Okfs is' now commenced at the Olafs House in
JJofton
!t is oeedlcft to fay any thing of the excellent
■-cur.lit) of the Bcfl.n Class, as it isfo well known
throughout the United States tu be in every re f
•yeft greatly superior to any ever imported from
liumpe.
It will be .cut to any fixe commonly tifcd ; and
•riay !>e cftrlUotly had by applying to Cban/et f.
Kifftr, at theGlaf, Houle.
Orders frrmthe distant States tube addressed to
Mr. Samuel Cm, Court-ttroet, Boft< n.
fj- Two or three go oil Glass niak rs are want
■ ud»t the above works; such as can produce re
coi»m.ndaiiou> for good behavior, may be lure of
«i»[loy. by app' : «.4tion to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the works. Wen without families *dl be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with tke method
of r.aking Crown Window Class, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Hoflon, lanuarv |6 2 —sswtw
A Nurse's place wanted.
\ WOM X just ar'ived from England, wants a
place as a Nai'cor attendant on the fiek, ritiier mn >
CtnUcmaaor Lady.—Far fui.tKT ioformation auply
t. N't. to, Sculh fourth Itrect, f.tat Mark.- flrect.
Mi 6. »<■
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefmit Street.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, FEBRVART 19, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED,
AND ro* SAL £, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnot and Second flreets,
( Prico 50 Cents J
Ca*fes qui fe font oppofees aux
Progrcs dn commerce, entre L\ FRANCE et les
ETATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQiJii.
Avce les Moyens de l'accelerer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationale
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addrefiees a Monficur lc Mar
quis de la Fayette. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la L6g!flature de la Republique
du Maffachuflet.
Le Commerce eft la portion la plus importante des
(RichelTes Nationales.
——LeTrident de Neptune, eft lc fceptredu Monde.
Lkmiike.
Or eaufes that have been opposed to the
I PROGRESS of t OMMERCE botween
FR/itiCi and tke UNITED STATIS 0/ AM ERIC J.
With the means of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
»i la Fayette.
Yrarifiated (into French from the original
iifh Manufcrr t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legislature of MaffachufettP.
Comn>erce is the moll important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
■ The 'irident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. L.emikre«»
AT a junfture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty ivitb France may soon
become an object of difcufiion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufefat to those citizens of the
United Statei, who may be defirons to enable them- !
felves-to view this fubje<ft, under its various af
pe&s ; asd they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
furniflied with ntrceffary data, to judge of the
ufefulnefsof this tranfa&ion.
This work is principally diAinguifted by the
richness of the observations, the pcrfpieuity of the
i«!eas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeful produce- It is addres
sed to the unfortunate La in letters,
which fugitive form, the author who could only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although cireumftanos are ia many
refpeds different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, wten ,these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data (till remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the wQrk
lesson that account; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
fulc of the author's remarks, it will serve co con
vince him that in all tranfaetions, between free
nations, every thing maybe expedled from the ef
forts of truth and justice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obstacles,"created in France,
to pi event the extendon ot commerce, with tjie
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfome French manu
fadures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices eliding in France,
againlk the quality of certain produ<slions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonltration of the bad policy of
laying duties ob their importation, principally on
proviGons in gener*!, and on fait provisions, and
fi(h in pa< ticular—Considerations on the regulations
of the French custom-houses.
LETTER 11.
Obllacles to the cxtenfion of trade with Fran:e,
proceeding from circumstances and individuals in
the United States—Proofs tha: these obllacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they liavft
been removed) by time and th« wisdom of govern
ment—-HiAory of the inijuencc of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciples and abftra.fl
confederations on money and circulation—Causes ,
of the llagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary condud
of the French merchants—Effects of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifheson this fubjed— i
Observations on money, weights and measures.
LETTER 111.
Essay in the forr* nf a tableau, to appraise the im
poitattons into the United i>ute»from France and tng- !
land un ted. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better (uvnifhed from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjett (which
would have altonilht d a meie th? orill) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kina of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only fuie guides
the llatciman can take tor th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We Cinr>ot too much admire ihe apparent ex
a&nefs of colonel Swan's calculation*; and although
the prophcfies of Lord Sheffield hate already been
contradi£led by experience, and by fcvcral able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the present work,
dispute with him the only grout d on wh}ch he has
not been hitheito attacked, by proving that Fiance,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Gieat Britain to supply us with fcveral articles,
which the hucliih author aliots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pat tia/ity m (if he
I has anv) does not appear to have at any time created
2 partiality of judgment. The re fa It of this calculation
! is that in *7B9* thai is to fay, at* period when arts
and manufactures did *Ol present in France the vail
means probabiU.y of cxtenfion winch they now
pofTcfs. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given auanti'y of the prcdu&ions of France
and I ngland united, but also r» enter into competition
with Great Britain for xhe remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and the iaduttry
of her inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportations of the United States*
and particular examination of their fui'ableuefs to
France; this is one reason why, notwithftand ng the
excellent work of Mr. 'iench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no means fuperfluous . the priuciple of the
advantages which wou<d result to France Irom the
importation < f provisions and taw materials, is every
w here applied ; and it'is upon this argumeot, that
the author cftablilhes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admii&on of the produc
tions ot his country into France. *
LEIIIR V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions®! the author on the finances, on the
effects of uariona»dcbt, on circulation, Slc. as more
amply detailed in*is National Arithmetic printed at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
flrcngthen in France, ilie pubic and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the milerio arising from the public debt in
Europe, arc connalted in the ablest manner, and un
der the molt lt>iking >etari»ns, bv vtrv cu ious cal
culation-r-Obteivai tons on the wi'dom and ec" iomy
which p'tfioe over the public exf.enles in MaHachu
letis. In m* place iht pa'.iimifm ol the author ap
pears, with all tlic oicvalioo which aj iU iiatior.a)
pride inlpircs. The ancient governments of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art of economv in
recompciifing tke feivices which che country receives:
' AmongH VI it will t bc fun, th*! men are chojen for p(aces }
and not places for men. % This letter conclude a wiih a
general view of the public property, dcpofi;od in the
hands mi the government of tbe United Siaics.
LETTER > VI
General examination of the defefts of the commer
cial policy of France with refpett to the United State* ;
many of these observations have produced the effc&s
for which they jw/" intended, others still remain,
pointing out the Qns to be made in future, as a
good chart marks the shoals and rocks. The author
conclades his work* by fixing his attention on his
country, and the great men who have lerdercd it il
luftrious; and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
fays of the present chief of our government, 'l o
praise a man when he exercises a diliinguilhed em
I ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
| but whilit he is in private life, it is the homage of
I sincerity.
Note, page 31$ of the work,
* Les habitans des Etat»-unis, fuivant dans leur
choix le b-ien public, & rxcites par un principe de
reconnoiffaricc, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice
preftdent du nouvem congres. efforts, pour pre
fcrver le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv.
fruement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres
fufpeft a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son me rite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congr< ». ce nombn.
etoit auIII M Samuel Adams, pacriote aufli intrepide,
La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, &,e lestalens
diftinges. Cetix que M. J«hn Adains a developpes
dans le tiaite de paix, qui s'ell fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que gr n4
po-itiqiie. Et dans son ouvrage fur la defenle de la
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can
noi{Tances qui f«nnent les vrais Jurifconfubts St. les
hommesde loi; eonnoiffances necedaires, pourrern
plir honorablemcnt les fonftions de president <iu fenat
des E<ats-unis.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the S'jbfcriber, ao insol
vent debtor, confined in the peal df
the County of Cape May in the state of Ne*-
Jcrfey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Fleas, in and
fer the said county, }>ra\ ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainst hii liberation, pursuant to an aft of the
Legislature of this State, entitled "an a& for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pafT»d the »6th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at th«
Court House in the Middle Precin<st, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are request.d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Caps May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —rawtw
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates —andaquanti
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fire —for sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January H 3taW6w.
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfc, and a well improved Garden, in rhe City
of Bui lhigton, New-Jersey, which he wilhes to
st 11. For terms apply at No. j, South Fourth
ftrcet, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Waihington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 19. 7®t
Princeton—New-Jerjey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherlpoon, now Mr.-..
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two ftuiies high,
of fiame work and painted. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lqwer floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, an 4 the garret specious—The back yard
is paved with Hones. In it are a well of excel
lent wa4er, an »ven, a fmokt house, and house
for allies —and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, grastry. and conv»nie,nt stables, with four
flails for horlis, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upo,n the street, and 254 feet
derp, somewhat more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, whirh will be mail® very reason
able, apply ta the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. iaw4w
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITU AT E on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftree's, fronting the State;
Hrufe square . This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut ftrcet, and one huuilred and thirteen
feet and ail half on Fifth ttreet ; there are at
present two finall two flory briek houf'es, and a
number of fmail tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale, x
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fi:uareon
Water street, between Mulberry anj SafTafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houf'es
have the convenience of a pub! c alley adj-in
irg on she north fide, and area very delirablefit
uaticn for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
July 31. raSiwtf
~ IN THE PRESS,
And speedily will be Publi/beJ,
i or the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATKS,
A genera] plan and fyfteni of Regulations therein :
Written at Sea, in the,year X 794 1
And now printed
»r THE jIUTHOt.
" A navy wo■ 1(1 be maintained but to an almcft
useless purpefc which taking the seamen kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading vclTels
would be as unprcfitibly employed, if cliey took
all those seamen whofcfkill and courage onboard (hips
of war, would giv« them pr tection and feevre
their fafcty. We hav* enough for both purposes,
and the cultivating lund of attention alon« is want
ing to multiply their number. " Money may buy
" all naval florcs, except mariners ; but, unless »
" supply of them it prcfervsd, n» wealth will be
" able to procure them."
February 7. S
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT 1 mrtting of the Stociholdtrs, held at the
Bink on Friday, the id February, purfu
ar.t to public notice—
On motion, Sefolyed, That, 'his matting be
ing imprefied with a due sense of the extraordina
ry services and attention of Samuel M. Fot, F.fq.
Prefitk-ntof thi« Bank, in the execo'ion of the du
ties of his efHce ; which have been much increas
ed by the peculiar situation of the institution, at
the period of hi* appointment; and l y the diffi
culties occaSoned in consequence of the recent ca
lamity in this city a committee of three gemie
aien be appointed to pl\ pare a piece of. Plat*, .of *
value not excee din j; five hundred dollari, with Suit
able emblems and devices, t*> be pref-nted to Mr.
Fox, in the name of the Stockholders, as an evi
dence of the high sense they entertain of Lis late
official services.
William T. Stnith, Peter WikefF, and C bar les
B:ddU, Efqrs. were appeinted a committee fur thu
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding relolutioo be pub
lilhed.
EttraiS from the minutea.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairmen.
Attefl —John SiTCJtEAVcn, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frjxltf
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pcarge frotn
Malaga, vii>.
Bloom Rutins in kegs
Do. Do. in bo%cs
Mufcatd do. in do.
Figs in ke^s
Almond kernels in casks and boset
Soft fhell'dalmonds in sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in Iceg*, &c.
The the articles fliipp«d as of firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kubn.
February j djt
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confids of 920 acres, almost all of which Is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the latt
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
! Kaft by the river Fafaick.
Th r** are on it a number of buildings, forming
I a square of nearly three aere»—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coniifts of 150 c finsbeariog engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts ol said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as a great
variery of other fruits, particularly Cherries o: the
best and.most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreoi, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its (Ituation is aH ut r 8 mile!
from the towns of Newark and Eliza 1 cth : lado.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is Vooded and watc/ed.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of tke deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
Prison M anufa^loryV~
FOli SALE,
At the PfifoA of tbe City «nd County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, irom 3dy to 20dy
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddlc anil card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwcod
Shoemakers and Sa<il- rs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea is fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderatt'price.
4 Orders from a dillance, direAed to Daniel Tho
»ias, agent for the piifon, will be attended to.
December 26 mth6m
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Acres of Messrs. Dob
ion, Campsfll, Young and Ormkoo,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauies and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To -which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op.nions and pra3ice of
different authors: and an .APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefling fa&s and reflections relative to
the Synocbus ISeroidcs, or Yellow Fever, which
lia> occasioned so much diftref* and morCality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns of rhe United Sratts of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
of the PhiUdeli hia Colifge of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philoiophical S"o
- I—*^m§
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the a®th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars % at Wm. BLACKEURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in rhe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City ol Washing
ton, No. ll.and PatUrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moil of tbe Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the Mates of the
Union.
N.B. The bifinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoanting Bills and Notes of Haud, sale of
Lands, House*, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
* §
JN THE PRESS,
AND SPEEDILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
j- (Price 25 Certs J
Reflections on Ivlonroe's View
OF TMS CONDUCT Of Ttls EXF.CUTtrE,
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the wf
SCIPIO,
In which the com.nei-cial wa fare of France is
traced 10 the Trench fa£iion in this country
as its foi.rce, and tW motives of the oppolition
the measures of the UniteO States are
Feb. 8.
FOR SALE,
cr thh svbsckibeiu, No. aI, Pcnn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Be»gal,
CunjiJlirg of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Co (lacs Punjuui Cloths
Sanahs Guzaey do.
Humhums .Charcemu Dorr*
itlwe CI. th Tarijibs
Chintz and Calicecs Mulinulj
Mamoodya Checks'
Maharsgongcs Patna Ukfs.
Ginghitr.s '.Mulmu! d«.
Guzzcnas Bandannocs
OmVahs Siflerfoy
Pim»fc»el Choppa Romalt
Salgatchys Sooty da. • ,
Gillie Koinils , Perliins of various col.
Meek Pulicats
200 tons SUGAR'' TjJ
9«,u00 lb. PIiPPFR.
Willings & Franth.
The Pifce Goods
Of {he Ganges are .now open tg, falp fit lhat
coir.moid.ojjii ilere the inorth weft corner of
Market and Fourth.ftreers
A Iff— A few Bales of Madiift Hkfs. ef ele
gant pnrtrer a and bt ft colodrs
K-i* tia. y ». dtf
" FOR SALE,
By WHAR'ION iff LEWIS,
Mo )if »Sou:h Strct;.
A quantity of Tann r's Oil,
4th prrtdt Jamaicaßutft, "> entitled to
lit ami «StpiWef Brandy, J drawback.
.\ladeiia Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
eodtf
St. Croix 'Sugars.
»6 bogfhead* belt ST. CROIX SUGAR,
fOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
i Feb. 9. fm&wif
Wanted,
An aflive cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the business . f the kitchen. Such a one
will he allowed good waftt, and uo other need ay
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 5
WANTED *
A young Gentleman to go
jDo&or ot a bhip to the East-Indies.
i-nquue at No. 25 Do. k Street.
Feb. 6. tit w .
Ran away from the Subfcribcr y
On the 14th January lail,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a middling Gzed llaturc, thick lips,
marked with the fitiall pox in the face—She
carried off a 1 until, of lif.cn with her. Whoever
takes her up and bri'gs her to.the fufcfcriher, at
No 181, Arch-nrest, corner of Fmrth-ftrect,
(hall receive two Dollar, reward
J. LAZELLES.
N B. Whoever harbor, f id Girlaiti r th s iio»
be prosecuted to tlief«v r tyof the law.
FetiruafT 10.
NO TICK.
AI.L persons who have any demands r.gainft
the ellatc of WILLIAM COMPTON, lat
of the city of Philadelphia, dec?afed, are requi
ted to furnifh their' account*, duly attellcd. And
«hofc,w.ho arc indebted to fiidcft.it-, areearnsflly
foliated to make immediate payment, to cither of
the iubiicribers.
Isaac Calhrall, ~j •
John Haworth, Admiuiftratora.
Samuel Wilcax. J
January 17. w M w
NOTICE.
ALL perfofls indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the Dirtriit of Soathwark, deci-afed
are requeued t: make immediate either
of the SuhferiWr.; and those who have any de
mands against said estate, arerequefted to bring in
their accounts duly attefled, to
Jehn Murphy, ")
Peter Scravendylc, I ecu *
Thomas Farrcll, J tors »
January 16. , *awaw4w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by W11.1.1 AM YOUNO, cornea of
Second and Chefnut i!re«ts,
(Price 3 %tbs nf a dollar)
Ob/ervations on certain Documents
Ton-allied in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch.irce oi spkculation ao-ainft
ALEXANDER. HAMILTON,
Late secretar \ of the Treasury, is FUI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication jrefents a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs praftif d by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperfc the of those
persons who are confijered as ho;.ilc their d.ior
gan.zmg schemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton an.l Me(Tr« Morroe
and Venable, on thefehje<ft J t }i«
documents aforefai.l, and a Icrie. of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Hamilton
proving heyond the possibility of ad*u!-t, tint the
eonnediou hetween him and Reynolds was the re
fill! ol a dating coulpiracy on the part of the lat
ter and his aflociates to extort money.
#JT A difconnt of one third froin the retai
pnee will be made in favor 8 f rurcha-
for cash. Orders to be addrefi.-d to Mi.
Youno.
Fehmary 9.
SALES P.Y AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR T GOODS.
r Forenoon—Edward Fex, No S C
'««;■ L fM,hF, T" rtrt '
J ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No A,
C South Front ftrcet. 5
r' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Ci'*
Turfdaj\ No 7 3 fout'h Front-ftre',.:.
f K «-"
Thursday \ r ">" 0 n—£6 wan! Fox.
I Ahernoon—John Conßclly.
FriAuy i )rr i.non VVilltarn- Shaimop.
, / Aftemoou—Jobn Cou» e lly.
Sntitrduj Batfon.
[VOLVME XIII.Xfje C>asttte. ~ j l
- - 1 ' IB
PHILADELPHIA, M
MONDAt KVENISO, FEBRVJRT '9- &
_ • CS
THE DOGS.
[The Lepjlnture of CmneSicut, having late
ly faffed afalutary law for /r/ening the nun- ,
her »f dogs, the wits tf that state have em- r
braced ihe opportunity to let off a volley nf\
fmdllflat from their wit fortreffei. —As the J
fuhje!t *f dog taxing is now before our Le
gi/lafure, the following j*n d'efprit may not
I: mal-apropas. Col. Centinel. j.
Convention of DOGS, »'» Gonneßicut, on
Sunday "Jlk January, 1798. f
>VHBN the world wat wrapt in ftiHneft, f
and tha pioat and the good were beading in ,
devotion, tke dogs, at though drawn by i
on* aniverfal sympathy, assembled on a t
mountain near Simftury Minet. A fileaee )
reigned thrmigbout the whole allembly, i
whea Jowler at leogtk proposed to choose
Lion President of the meeting 5 Scnp wat <
Appointed secretary—-The Prefidtat thca ,
opeaed by the following Speech : 1
•« Brethren of lit Canine Rate, (
"We are drawn to thit aflembly at by (
the cordt of calamity, and universal diftreft. ,
"the legillature of a people, whofc doort ]
Wc have guarded thtoagh th* silent wate.i- t
ct of darkneft} wKofe fieldt we have pro- ,
tested from thievet and robbers, and whose
prrfons wc have defended agiinft assault» t
and infultt, enafted a law to extermi- 1
nat* onr whole fpeciet, aad to cut off our ,
rank and Handing in th* aaimal world. Be- |
iag now met, we have organised our aflem- ;
Vly for ihe purpose of folcmn debate, ana t
to adopt meafuret for our fafety. There- ]
for*, Brethren, obferr* order, aad *xpreft
your miudt freely." . • 1
The fubjeA thut opened, appeared infi- ,
nitely important. Every one of the aflem- |
bly from Jottler down to Whapet, made a
speech.
Whea th* othert had done, Sneerwell,
an old euaning cur, drew the afTctnbly s
attentioa by a long and intending fpcechi
fication, in which he observed, that " the
aft of the legislature was not left cruel than
impolitic ; not less unconstitutional than
unjnft. It is true that some dogs have been
attacked with a hydrophobia,which may
be communicated by a bite, by indenting
the fkinof the alTailed, and mixing the sali
va with its circulations. But it follows not i
from thence, that if the diseased animal be
the fubjeA of laws, that all the race
of Dogs (hall be exterminated.
" The human race are no less fubjeft to
madness than ours, and yet they wauld con
sider it highly unjnft to cut off the inno
cent with the guilty. What is it but mad
ness, that hat lately deluged the European
fields with blood I What is it but madness
that preventl that proud and profligate crea
ture man, from enjoying the blessings of li
berty, »nd his right (derived merely by
the use of hands) to universal dominion o
rer other animal* ? What is it but madness,
.which now involve* the United States in
controversy, where there is no room for
contest ?
«' The di (temper among them is commu
nicated by biting, in the fame manner, as
among ut.—Whet. Mr. ?•**•* had made
•n imm*nfe fortune by Tennessee lands, he
became mad enough to covet more; but he
fealitct that hit wealth ha 3 no enjoyment
appurtenant to it. The disorder spread.
Mr. B # *** # * and others grew mad for
' four million! in the east. The legislature
of Georgia beeam mad, and fold twelve
tnilliont of acres to Gunn andothert. Their
ffladneft increased, until they bunrt their
own recordt, disgraced their own govern
ment, and subverted all ideas of govern
mental faith and honor. Some of their gran
tees run mad, and bit lamentably MefTrs.
an< j . Meflrs.
p«t#» stu l Company; theferun
violently mad, and bit'a great number of
people in MafTtchnfetts —all these are now
mad, and trying to bite all who come with
in their reach. Gunn bit Greenleaf; he
bit a great number of the mod cautious
men in New-England. These are all mad.
But the noise thereof, Like our sympathetic
notices by night, has been echoed around.
Evety body it on the watch, and no body
will now (land still to be bit.
« Doftor Letfom of London 4«a mad up
on an ideal deed of the Indians in the moon,
t« J. Carver. Three or four people of longe
tudinal greatness, run mad on the occasion,
and bit several hundreds of others.
n The people of our state (Connefticut)
run mad about their Sufquehannah claim,
and a great number have bten bitten, and
are now under a diftrefling hydrophobia,
from their wounds.
«« The general court opened a sale of th*
Connefticut Reserve. They fold more a
cret than th* Reserve contained. But the
purchtfert run mad, and bit others by fell
ing a million'which were nev«r created.
" The General assembly wanted a Court
House ; and being under a disease, which
rendered tke grant *f money odiout to thrm,
they Told the Core to build the house ;
when it wat finifhed, they were mad enough
to dedicate it ly solemn fervicet of religion,
the Chaplain well knew
how it wat built.
" Thit disorder is not confined to one or
twollatei only. The ancient dominion of Vir
ginia, has been mud enough to fell fevtn
millions of aerrs, within a circumference,
where nature with all her powrn could not
place one million. The purchalers are bit
ten and run mad.
" New-York it in a manner, claiming all
the world as the rrfidutry Legatee of the
king of England—lt« said they had a frelh
bite from his majesty in hit late illtieft.
" I fliall now proceed to illuflrate my po
rtions by other laAs, but flay ! I hear !
I hear !—" ' •
Sneerwell had forgotten that the Übbath
:i *rds at fyn fc.t, and had (ts *
's th.. faihinn with.one or two gentlemen in
the filiate of a neighboring state—some
members iff the Icgiflzture of hiiown state.
Mr. H. Mr. N. Mr. S. and others of Gon- I
grefs) fpeechified too long, until the people
came out at»d fired on the aflembly. The
President and many other tefprftable dogs,
were among the vi&ims of this brutality.
£ Taken frtm Minutes transmitted by Scrip,- j
for the entertainment of tbofc, who may have ]
survived the malady of biting. ] r
i
From the Baltimore Federal G axe tie. I
MefTrs. Printers, ]
I have seen in your paper of Thursday
last, an article copied from the Gaaette of ,
ihe United States, entitled,' Law Quere.' (
Suppofirig the writer to be some diftrefled j
(hip-owner, not able to pay the extravagant t
fees of lawyers, and thus reduced to ask ad- |
vice on charity—l, thtrefure, beg yon to ,
inftrt thisanfwer, that th« Editor of the U
nited States Gazette may, with the fame ,
kiad ntentioas as your own, copy from you t
ia return.
Th* declaration of Mr. Monroe, " Iffuch
conduit, See.', is plainly negative; such a j
mod* of speech being often nfed, and well
understood to imply the contrary of what is ,
supposed. That the French did so under- i
(land it, it plain from the arrete nf their <
committee of fafety, kc. of the 18th Nov. ]
1794. The querist, therefore, will please
to apply as there direfted, for payment, vie. ,
to the commifTary of marine. 1
To extend the favor which I mean to '
this poor clieat of the public, I will give •
him as cheap advice on the other fide. If,
as is the cafe with very many, h* has loft a
(hip by the Englifc, he will please to apply
as the only recourse fignified by Mr. Jay, to
the magnanimity and justice of his Britannic
Majesty. EQUAIfREASON.
N. B. It it supposed the applicant iu
this ease is not an Englishman, Scotchman,
or h mere American agent for thtm under
falfe colonrs.
Feb. ia.
Extract
It is not flrange, that those who have
confeffedly done us injuries, (honld add in
sults. One great cause for our havinjj fuffer
ed both, is the unfortunate opinion of the
Rulers of the French Rupublic, that our
1 government and people, are divided between
France and England. This Is as falfe as
it is dilhonorable to the American name,
but neverthelefr it is believed, and the be
; i lief of it has drawn upon us, the experience
of the French system of depredation. This
; will appear by a very ftiort French argu
" ment- " Half, the Americans including
1 " half their Congress, will juftify and ap
' " plaud what we do, and as to the other
* half, the tools of Britain, no matter if
" u they fuffer loss by th« French privateers
1 " the friends of France in America will re
® " joice to fee them reduced to proverty !1"
««- What ftamps4iriportanc* on this last ob
* fervatioff,"knd gives it every mark of authen
f ticity, is the published correspondence of
* Mr Monroe, our late minister to the Re
» public; He fays that he informed the French
1 Government, that if they found it for their
r intercft to set aftde the articles' of treaty
refpefting neutral veffelt, the Americans al
* though it would be very detrimental to
9 thcin, \yould .not only acquiesce but re
e joice ia their so doing. No wonder such a
e minister wat recalled by the President, but
e it proves the aflertitni, that our troubles have
1 chiefly arisen from the falfe opinion of our
'• being rather Frenchmen than Americans.
r It it time that Europeans, so long misled by
e their own vanitr, and the mifreprefentatioat
e of our renegado countrymen, (liould b* per
r fuaded to think with more refpeft of oar
r nation "
;* A PRINT.
Print, reprrfenting ClMUli Wa«hi»io.
t*n and hit funily, all whole lengths in one
'• groupr, will be ready lor delivery by the 15th of
I. M arch next.
n A* unfinifhed impreflion it to be seen ai Mr. M'Kl
e weea's looking-glass store, No. ?#South Fouiih Street.
The fubfeription will elofe on the loth of Match
* next Sub r c.-ibera mav depend ou having ( he best
I- Prima at ene guinea and an kdf. To non-lubfctibera,
e the price will be tw^gutneu.
February 19
Notice.
c A ManufaQory of yellow and dilft ware,
I Such as nev< r wai in ihia Country belnre, has been
been lately ere Bcd at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
7 onthe East Bank of Hudlon'e River, ftaie ot Ne«.
York, where any article •( various forts and fhapta
may be execute*!, aa well at earthcrn lloves upon a
new conftiuflion, that favei three fourths of the fuel
'• commnnly ufrd in taft iron flovca or ape* chymniesi
(hey ate b. fides very wholcfome and ornaments], by
'• J. MODCHET.
\ Wanted a ikillful hand to attend la ihe baking and
' glazing part of th< f«td ware. Gencroua appoint.
'• menta will be given. Apply as ilaovr, or to
* DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
I, No. 71 South jth Stiect.
Feb. <9 « d 4^L_
e Twenty Dollars Reward,
l* -rpoß taking up 1 runaway fervaut Girl, named
le r Abigail Miller, latterly calliag herfelf Betfcy
1- Smith, and reading h«r «o North Front-ttreet, No.
45. ahc ia of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, yith round feataret, and black bushy
L hair; prebably aiuch altered by paint and pow
:h den, aa Ihe it Cuppofedto Weftcreted in houfea of
n, ji| fame, though n» more than fifteen years ol age.
; February 19. colw
: h Selcd Balls.
"• -* jrR. FRAMCIS, at the particular request of
w jVj. the ftifcferibert, intenda to have four more
fnbfcription Ha lit.
or TEAMS
ir- Etch Suhfcriber to pay Five Dollars, which
tn entitle! himtoagentleman't ticket, and cards of
admifiion f*»r two ladiet at each ball.
' TJie firft bill to b« on Tuesday, the i< th of
ut Fehruiry, and to be continued every Tacfday
"" till the end of the fubfeription, at the end of
which Vr Francis propot:. giving an extra hall
ill to the fubferibera.
he Mr. Frat.eis refpeflfully informs those gen
s], tlemen who hive not already fubfenbed, that
the plan of the fubfeription is t» be seen at Mr
F.'thoufe, No. jo North highlit ftrret.
°- r> p t like wife informi lit« Scholar*, in:l the
public in genera',thit his filth peiflifiuf Ball,
will be on "1 hmfdij* the ltd .all* .
th Feb. 16.
CONGRESS. „
111 a
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
_ i
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 16.
(Concluded from Saturday's Galeae. J
Mr. Livingfton said he wished to pro- t
pole a tefoiution for the adoption of the t
Houfc, wßich had in view the encourage- '
ment of a mannfafture which wai much '
increasing in the United Statis, and might '
become of configurable national import- |
It was to the following effeft : r I
" Resolved, That the committee of com- .
merce and manufafturta be inftrudled to en- I
quire whether any provision be expedient j
for encouraging the printing of white cot
ton troodii in the United|fcates, and report j
thiir opinion the house.—A- |
gfeed. i
Mr. Livingfton called up for confidtrati- i
on the resolution which he yeflerday laid on 1
the table upon the fybjeft of the clashing
jurifdiftion of dates, when it was determined
to be referred to a committee of feTen mem
bers.
Mr. S. Smith said, that a letter and re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the fubjeft of regulating the colleftiou of
the duties arising from impost and tonnage,
had been lefcrred to the committee of com.
merce and manufactures ; but as it was ne
ceflary obtain local information from parts
of the Lffiion from whence none of the mem
bers of the committee came, they wished,
for this particularpurpofe to havefomc mem
bers added, so that they might have the be
nefit of a member from every (late in the
Union.
After a few obfer rations, it was agreed
that the committee of commerce and manu
factures (liquid be discharged from the far
ther consideration of this fubjeft, and that
it should be referred to a committee of six
teen members.
Mr. Otis btlieved something further was
neceflary to be done in refpeft to the unfor
tunate business which had already engaged
the attention of the house. From what had
happened in the view of the house, it ap
pears that th s parties are in the habit of
conflifti»g with each other, and except they
are restrained by some authority which (hall
be fufSciefttly impoling upon- them, farther
violence may be expefted. In order, there
fore, to secure this house from future viola
tions of its dignity and order, he proposed ,
the following resolution for adoption :
" Refolvedthat Roger Grifwoldand Mat
thew Lyon, members of this house, be ref
peftively required by the Speaker to pledge
their words to this house, that they will not
commit any aft of violence upon each other
during this feflion ; and that-if either refufe
to make such engagement, the party refu
ting (hall be committed to the custody of
the ferjeant at arms, nntil he fliall comply
with this obligation."
Mr. Sewall understood a motion had been
agreed to in relation to the affair of yester
day, which might produce an expulsion of
the mertiber3 in question* He thought it
woufd be better, therefore, to alter the
wording of the resolution, and instead of
" during this feflion," fay during the continu
ance ■»/ the examination *f the bv/inefs lefore
i the house.
Mr; Sitgreaves did not think any altera
i tions was neceflary. An expulfioji of the
members was a pofiible, but not a neceflary
'■ result. If an expulsion does not take place,
f the tefoiution will remain in operation for
• the remainder of the feflion, which would
r be proper, and if an expulsion took place,
• its operation would fall ef conrfe.
Mr. J. Williams thought it best to pafi
r the resolution as it stood. If a similar reso
lution had been entered into on a former
' occasion, it would probably have prevented
what had now taken place.
- Mr. R Williams called for the reading of
f the resolution which was pafled on a former
occasion [lt was read; it dated, " That
* any personal contest between the members
) before the house had come to a decision up
* on the business, would be considered as a
* high breach of privileges."] Mr. W. tho't
this resolution went as far as the house had
a right to go. The resolution proposed by
the gentleman from Maffachufctts, went
, farther, he thought, than they had power
, to go. It went to imprison one or both of
■ the parties if he or they refufed to comply
1 with at request of the house. He had his
I doubts whether that house had the conftitu
; tional power to imprison a man for a crime
' as the law only could do this. He thought
a resolution similar to that adopted on a
I former occasion would be fufScient at pre
sent; and if the mover did not think proper
so to alter it, he would himfelf move an
amendment for this purpose.
Mr. Otis flattered himfelf, jhat his objeft
' wduld have met with the concurrence of all
fides of the house, believing that all wiftied
to prevent future violations of order and
peace, With refpeft to the doubts of the
i gentleman from N. Carolina, his politics.fee
' med to be altogether a system of double. If
' this system was common, it would be ex
tremely difficult to progress with business
at all. He believed, on the present occasion
' these doubts were groundless, When an aft
of violence was doRC in the view of members
f of the house, they had certainly the power
E to obtain some security against a repetition
of such violence. If this was not done, the
i preemption was, the business of the feflion
f might be continually interrupted ; and had
they noc the right of securing the peaceful
exercife of their legislative funftions for the
remainder of the feflio.i ? He thought this
I could oot feriouflv be doubted. With ref
peft to the former resolution, if he had been
- in his place, he (hould have suggested its
• impropriety ; for, by it, it feeoned to be
implied that, after the question was deci
ded, though they could not no it before,
\ the members in question would be at liberty
' to commit any aft of violence they pleased
upon each •tbcr. They had fcen tbe con
sequence. He hoped, therefore, the houfc
would restrain these gentlemen in such a
manner as that it may not be is their power
again to interrupt their proceediags. ,
Mr. K. Williams defended hisopinv>n» *nd
infilled upon hu right to deliver it, nor (hould
he ask any gentleman to explain to him the
oath he hid taken to support the constitution ot
the United States. When gcntlcwi n violated
the lulesof the house, the houfc had a rig.lt
to punilh them ; bet he wai doubtful whether
they had the poa'er to imprifona member if he 1
tefufed to fav.r«, to a question whicn (hould be 1
put t>< him.
Mr. Sewall presumed that the house had the
fame right which every court poffefled of pre
fervir.g its order by imprifonnimt <)f offenders I
and it was incident to this authority to restrain
persons likely to-commit these offences. It was.
neceflary for the future security ot the h«ufr,
for these gentlemen to fay, " they will nat a
gain afT.iult each other." This a m.-ans of
prev. nting and not of pnnifhing . ffciice». He
had no ohjetfios to the resolution, therefore, on
the ground of power, but lie had some doub" as
to the pr priety of the exprcflj'Sn. Fir, said
he, Jiippofe these gentlemen are expelled, ant!.
Mr. C». afterwards aflaitW Mr. L. the former
might confi'ler himfelt boirml by his promise to
the forbear to defend himfel . To 4
rorrefl this impropriety of exprelfion, he mov
ed to strikeout the words " durin« this feflion,"
and infer. " suhilfl members of this hpufr."
Mr. Otis confentril t" this amenJmcut.
Mr. Sitg;reaves wished the mover to alfent to
another phraf.-ology <?f his motion. Aifts inigh:
perhaps b; corp:nitted which wou'.d not be cal
led ttjt of violence, though vet y offcnfive lie
wifbed the fame word used as formerly, viz.
personal eo iteU -with ettch other.
Mr. Nichoiai had no oVjeflion to the general
ohjes of this i-efalution ; but the amendment
of the gentleman from Mafiachufetts went to
govern members during the recess of Congrrfs.
He supposed this was soing farther than gentle
men themf'elves intended He thought a rel'o
lnti'-n like the former, which fijould ex!»nd dur
ing the prefer.t feflion, would answer every pur
pose. He did not fee any nceeflity to infliiit pe
nalties before a breach of order was committed.
( Mr. Venahle said, the idea i f the gentleman
from Malfachufetts ( Mr. Sewall) was not e'er
refl, when he suppose 1 an obligatioß entered
into at this time, would be binding when a per
son ceased to be a member of that house. All
obligations wh'ch members owe to the house,
are difTolved when they cease to be members ;
nor wai it in the power of the house to extend
the force of the refolutioon beyond the prtfent
. fcfiion. He (hould not object to its having that
extent. He thought it only reasonable, in order
to obtain a pmfpeJl of future peace in their de
liberations, that these gentlemen (hould declare
that they will not enter into any further person
al conte# during the feflion. He moved, there
fore, again to *lt«r the rtfolution to read dur
ing the fefjion.
i Mr Otis" hoped the amendment would be
made, he had too readily consented to the for
. mer alteration.
The question was then taken on the refolu
tion, and carried *y a large majority, there be
•nt> 7.1 votes in favour of it.
The Speaker aflied whether it was the plea
sure of the house that the sergeant at arms (hould
: be sent for Mr. Lyon.
Mr. Sitgreaves said it might n»t be eonveni
r ent for Mr. Eyon to attend the house ; he a(k
---r ed whether the resolution might not be sent to
him, and his answer be received in writing !
Mr. Nicholas supposed, that if both gentle
man prepared a declaration in writing, and pre
" fented it to-n,orrow, it would answer the pur
■ pose.
t Mr. Harper replied the tnifchief intended be
; be guarded against might in the mean time be |
f do*e.
Mr. Gallatin said, he had jufl been called out
by a member of tfie houfc who had alked him
e whether he thought it would be proper for Mr.
Lyon to attend the hotife. He supposed, there
. for*, jf the ferjeant at arms was sent for him, he
e would immediataly attend.
Mr. Harper hoped the ferjeant at Arms would
' be sent.
> The Speaker said, as soon as tbe clerk had made
r a copy of the resolution, the ferjeant at arms
i wou'd wait upon Mr. Lyon with it.
, I Mr Elmendorf prcfentud a petition from ——
' Van Rei felaer, and others, for sup plies ftirniftied
doii' g the war.
' Mr Dawfon prpfented two petitions; one from
i- John Whitlock, iare afoldier in the war, and H«n
---r ry Heely. a continental waggoner, for compenfa
j tion for services—These three petitions were re
| fcrrcd to the committee of claims
I Mr; Wadfworth prffented a petition from the
* , Portland Marine Society, praying for certain buoys
r to be placed in that harbor.
' Mr. N. Freaman prefcnted a memorial from the
5 merchants and fcip owners of New- Bedford, pray
i- mg for theercflion of two light hoafes, and some
jl buoys; and also that that port may be made a
port of entry ior the Cape of Good Hope and he
' yond.—This and the lafl petition were referred to
3 tbe committee of commerce and manufa&ttres.
y The bill appropriating money for holding a
t treaty with the Indians in the (late of Tenaelfec,
r wai received from the senate with amendments,
r which were read and referred to a felcdl commit
tee.
f Mr Lyon having entered,
s Thi Speaker said, ifce member from Vermont
. and Connecticut being now in their places, he
e Ihoaid proceed to read the resolution which had
been entered into by the houfc. [Ha thea read the
resolution]
1 As soon as it was (iailhed r-ading,
- Mr. Grifwold rofc, and said he (hould not hefi
r tat* to en'.er into the proposed engagement.
n Mr. l.yon also rose, and said he was ready, as
it was the wiSi of the house, to agree to the pro
portion.
I The Speaker said, then you do accordingly a
|| gree to this proportion ?
, Both anfwercd, " 1 do agree."
Mr. Rutledge said his colleague (Mr. Pinckney)
i who was indilpofed, wished a change of air, and
C desired leave of absence for fix days. Granted.
The bill for the relief of Wil iani Alexander was
f read the third time and palfsd.
Mr. D. Fofler, from the commirtee of claims,
made aa unfavorable report on the petition of the
* reprcfentativel of Oeargc Laycroft, which was
1 concurred in.
Mt. Harner called up his proposed amendment
8 to the standing rules of the house, refpeSing mo
tions for adjournment, which was referred ro the
r comn-.ittee winch has been appointed an the subject
" of the rules.
- Mr. J Williams Moved that the go into a
n committee of the whole on the bill for difcipliaiag
I a nd organizing the militia of the United States ;
, but the tenfc of the house being taken, there ap
peared only 14 member* fdf it.
e Mr. Williams then said, as there appeared no
5 bnfinef* before the houle, he we.ild move an ad
journment, in order that the committee of privile
n grs might attend to the bufiuefs referred to them*
—Agreed. Adjourned.
FOR SALE,
' A quantity of CALF SKI NB, in the rough,
' and some horse leather. Apply to
y ROBERT SMITH Gf Co.
d No. ;Bi'Sauth Trent (Ire,t.
1- Feb. I}. daw
From the Philadelphia C.incite.
To the F*ft.men as the city and county of
Philadelphia, and the county of Delaware.
rELLOW CITIZENS,
A person, who, in the Philadelphia Ga
zette of the 14th inilant, ha« thought pro
per t« aflurae the title of A Friend to Jus
tice, has endeavoured to alarm your fears,
on the fubjeft of your right of fuffrage.
He Items to believe, and he end#lvour»
to make you believe, that the report of the
committee of the Senate, against the valid
ity of Mr. Israel's ele&ion, was founded ex
clufi/ely upon the omifilon to require a cer
tificate of allegiance.
Defi.rous of ascertaining the truth of the
charge, I have applied to a member of that
committee, who very readily furnifhed me
with a copy of the report which was proposed
to be made, and which contains, a full state
ment of the principles, on which they form
ed their decision. Tamauthorifedtofay, that
the only,reafon why'it wasnot made at length,
was, that a majority of the committee,
thought it most confident with parliamenta
ry forms, to Report their fleci'fion without
assigning their reaforis, but'as their conititu
ents have an interest in knovfrihg the grounds
upon which the deciGon they*
have no obje&i'en to its being made public.
The pertifal of this paper .will surely re
fute the acrimonious chargeS'o'f the writer
I have alluded to. Your privileges have not
been violated, your rights have not been
outraged, your voice* bave not been set at
nought, unless it is an injury done to citi
zens to confine to themselves th'fe'exercife of
tlieir best and dearell privilegrs'te prevent
an unauthorized and illegal usurpation ef
theii rights and to prcferve by all imaginable
care that purity of election on which the
fafetyof a republic depends.
It is the vital principle of a republic to
repel from its e-ledioiis all foreign interfer
ence. Those only,* who being citizens,
have a manifeft and permanent interest in its
welfare, pofiefs the right of fuffrage, and
can be legally called to the exercise of it.
If upon examination a single vote appears
to have been rtceived from a ft ranger and an
alien ( and all -who are not citizens are aliens J
it is necessary to rejedl it, for such a vote
passed over to day, is a precedent for thou
sands on the next occasion.
The committee of the senate would there
fore, have betrayed the solemn trust confid
ed to them, would have defetved the censure
the indignation of their country, had they,
upon any considerations whatcyer, allowed
the votes of those, who are not citizens, ac
cording to our laws, to be numbered with
the votts of those who are.
In every such inftanee the value and effett
of your own fuffrages is impaired. It is f>
l*ntly leflening your interA in''the commit
nity ; it.is creating officers fgr the people,
who are not chosen by the people—(for the
people of. a state means the citizens of a
state) it j» ( compelling to submit
to. laws you have i\ot paflfd, and to o
bey magistrates whom you haiVe not chosen.
' Yet you are warmly urged'by some who
mean ■Well, 'and by Others whoknnw better,
to coniider this just aid legal determination
of the do'rhmittee, as an injury done to you,
to the citizens, the conftitwt'iitoal eleflors of'
this diftrid.
In all countries where popular eleftioos
are te be found at all, they will be found to
be confined to the citizens, H>r>(in monarchi
al societies) the fubjeds of thiofe countrie*.
In Franee, and all the'countries which
Francs has fraternized, the vote of a per
son not an active citizen, as -there termed
would be treated with c'ontetnpt. In En
gland, Scotland and Ireland, the right of
eleding is much and variously limited ; but
in all most jealously guarded. Shall our free
and happy American commonwealths be
contaminated, our sober and rational consti
tutions, happily combining the enjoyments
of liberty with the obligations of law, be
undermined by flie spirit as a party, which
veiling its attachment to a paiticular cha
racter under the pretence of zeal for the
public good, endeavonrs to excite your re
sentment at the preservation of your own
rights, and ipflame you against the decision
of a legal tribanal, because it did not take
less care of the privileges of citizens tban
would have been taken in other countries ?
My fellow-citizens, whether by birth or
naturalization, rcjed these insidious artifices
—be steady in theprefervation of your rights
—fufped the man who endeavors to dimia
ifh their value, eled the Senator who can
best perform the duties of his trust, and
preserve inviolate the iaterefts and indepen
dence of your country.
A Citizen of Pennsylvania.
Feb. 14, 1798.
The COMMITTEE feleSedagreeably to law,
to try the matter of the petition complaining of
the undue election of Israel Israel, returned as
a senator for the difiriS comprfcd of the City
and county of Philadelphia, and the county of
Delaware, and sworn or affirmed to give a
true judgment therton Recording to the evidence,
report, that agreeably to the duty thus solemn'
ly imposed on them, they proceeded to tali tie
said petition into conjideration, and required
»f the person appearing in behalf of the pe
titioners, to spec fy in writing Jhis objt&ione
against the f.iideleOion, who, thereupon f re
sin ted the following:
" 1 ft, The eledion in Southwark was not
; held at a place appointed agreeably to the
laws and constitution of this state.
2nd, The legal proof of citizenfliip was
not required of those who voted in Sovth
wark and the Northern Liberties,
i 3d, A fufficient number of votes to set
aside the eledion of Mr. Israel, were re
ceived from persons who were not qualified
to vote far members of the senate."
' That it appears, that by a law palled the
till day of March, 1797, entitled. "An
ad for the eredion of certain eledion dif
trids, and for other pvtrpofes therein men-tioned," the freemen ofthediftricl »;fS > i.h- (;t
mit. and of tlie townlhips of. f;
and Paffyuak were, from thenccfortfi to te
hold their general eleftions at the Com-nijjt- as
nur't-haH\n the diftriift of Southward afor*- or
laid. an pasTed the 2oth day tli
•f September, 1781, entitled, "Ana 3 to ce
enable the eommiGiouers therein named, to qi
purchase public landings iu the dittrift of ai
Soi/liwark, ia the county of Philadelphia, sic
and for raising a fund to j>ay the parchafe qi
money thereof:" ar.d a:i a£l pafled the 18th pt
day of April, 1794, entitled, "An a£l to to
iucarporate the diftiicl of Southwark," the th
commissioners were authorifrd to Jim on their je
place of mreting.—That from the evidence vc
adduced to the committee it appears, that w
at the time the legiflaturr pasTed the law for qi
holding the general ele&ion at Cemmiffion- F
ers'-hall, the said commissioners held their te
meetings at a place known by the names of a
" Little's fchool-ho«fe."—That about two ei
weeks before the late general ele&ion, they tu
changed their place of meeting to the house »c
of Samuel GofF, in ibl said diftrift. That S
in Confequtnce thereof, the general eleftion bi
was held at the house of the said GofF. It h
appears, that at the time this removal took
place, the late contagious fever made it dan- vi
gri out to meet at Little's school house : jv
t/Hit full- and complete notice was given of tl
the plape of holding the ele&ion: nor does tl
it appear that any person was prevented b
from voting on that account. v<
Under this view of the ease, the commit- t;
te? are as opinion that if it was wrong for o
the commissioners of Southwark to pofTefs ti
the power to change the place of holding It
the ele&ion, the fault lay with the legifla- h
ture, who, it may fairly be implied, gran- p
ted that power, and not with the commif- f
lionet s who exereifed it; and as no difadvan- d
tnge appears to have resulted from the re- o
moval, the committee are of opinion the
eledlion ought not to be set aside on account t
of the firft objeftion. a
That with rcfpedl to the second objec- d
tion, t» wit, " That tke legal proof of e
citircnfhip was not required from those who v
voted at Southwark and the Northern lib- e
erties." It appear by the evidence of the t
judges and infpe&ors, that no enquiry was c
made of sny person offering to vote at the I
said diflricts, other than whether they were }
31 years of age, had resided 2 years in the f
state, and within that time paid a Rate or I
county tax, assessed at least fix months be- 1
fore the ejr&ion ; or beihg between 21 and 1
12 jean of age, and not having paid taxes, f
that thpy were the sons of persons qualified f
as aforefaid. That the season why no evi- <
dence of citizenship was required by the )
said judge* and infpeftors, appears to have I
been from an opinion entertained by them I
that nil freemen who had resided two years
in the state, and paid a tax as aforefaid, 1
■were enticed to the rights of an eledtor. In
the opinion of the committee, in addition
to the payment of tax and residence, as a
forefaid, to entitle any person t<) the rights
of an ele&or, he must have been a natural
born cititen of the United States, or fet
tled therein on or before the 4th day of Ju
ly, X 776 ; or in this state on or before the
aSth day of September, in the fame year ;
or being a foreigner, who, since that time
~ came to fett'e in this state, he must have ta
. j keit an oath pr affirmation of allegiance to
the fame on 6r before the 36th day ofMarch,
-\t79o, agreeably to the then existing confti
lutioo and laws, or hive been lavffully ad-
as a citizen of some other of the U
sited States, on or before the day last men
tioned ; or ha»e been naturalized conform
ably to the laws of the United States. J
That although several parts of the present
eleftion laws have grown obsolete from there
beinj no ofcjedt to operate on ; and the
•oaths and the affirmations therein prescribed
to be taken by the judges and infpe&ors are
in some parts not only inapplicable to pre
sent eircumftances, but would impose an o
bligation contrary to subsequent laws, and
that therefore the necessity of the cafe jufti
. fied the judges and infpeiSors in the said dif
trids, as well as the city and other places,
in the alterations as to form with which
they took the said oaths and affirmations,
yet this could not impair the legal or moral
obligation incumbent on every person under
taking to perform an office, to fulfil and
difoharge all the duties which the office im
poses, and as the present eleftion laws clear
ly point out the mode in which foreigners,
who had acquired the rights of citizenship
under the former constitution and laws of
this state, are to give evidence thereof when
they offer to vote at elrflions ; the plain in
ference seems to be, that the fame mode
mull apply as ftr as eircumftances wilj ad
mit, to the giving evidence of such right,
although acquired under another authority,
or different laws. It cannot be pretended,
that a person who has not complied with
the stipulations necessary to become a mem
ber of the community, enn have any right
to vote for persons who are to regulate the
affairs of the commuaity. When, there
fore, he attempts to exercise a privilege at
tached to that right, he must give some evi
dence that he i* entitled thereto. The com
mittee are therefore decidedly of opinion,
that admitting persons indiscriminately to
vote at the general tledlions without mak
ing any enquiry as to their being citizens,
if the fame be not within the knowledge of
the infpeflor or some judge of the eleftion
or without requiring due proof thereof if
they have any dcubts refpefting the fame,
isdire&ly contrary to the letter and fpjrit
of our constitution and laws—the result is,
that the second objedlion has been fully sub
stantiated.
The committee thinkit their d«ty to state
I that thtre does not appear any reason to
suppose, that the judges and infpedtors of
the said diftrifts were influenced by any im
proper motives, nor has any charge ®f that
kind been made agair.fl them ; that it ap
pears the eledion in both diftriAs, except
as to the omiffiou aforefaid, was conduced
regularly, and in a fair and impartial man
lifrT.
In forming ajtdgrfent how far an onif-
(ion, irregularity, or aegleA, to as- j cu
fe3 the return of an election, the commit* I no
tee, presume the enquiry, will naturally be * frs
as tu the uTett such omission, irregularity to
or neglefl, would probably produie: If ce
the effefl could not be such as to deftrov t-he to
certainty of the poll, or the rights ~t>f the ce
qualified ele&ors, it would be unreasonable th
and unjust that an eleflion fhotild be set a- mi
fide. If on the contrary the right* of the re]
qualified eleftors, or tha certainty of the ho
poll might be destroyed, it becomes a duty - ex
to enquire how far that has been the cafe ; | j;
this leads to a confederation of the third ob- J
jeflioo, to wit, " a fulficient number of
votes to set aside the eleftion of Mr. Israel =
were rec-ived from perfous who were not
qualified to vote 1 for members of the senate."
From the evidence produced to the commit
tee, they are decidedly of opinion, that
a greater number of persons who were not
entitled to vote for members of the legifla- j ,
litre, have been admitted to vote for fena- ,
tor ae the eleflion held in the diftrift of "
Soufhwark, thjn the difference in number
between Mr. [frael and the person next
highest in vote.
Ele&ions by ballot are unquestionably fa-
vorable to the eleftors exercising his own
judgment independently, without fear, or .
the hope of favour ; but they are liable to
this inconvenience, that when tickets have .
been received from persons not entitled to
vote, it is generally impra&icable to afcer- .
tain for whom they were given.—Dangers
of a feriows nature might arise from admit
ting a person who had been improperly al- a *
lowed to vote, to give evidence as to whom
he had voted for. If he had really votedfora
particular ticket, and, after detection, (Tiould
falfely declare he had given one of another .
description ; and if this declaration should
occasion a dedu&ion from the person or per
sons he had thus falfely declared he had vo- tc
I ted lor, it would increase the firft injury,
I and leave no possibility of applying a reme- v j
Idy : but if no danger was to be apprehesd- ,
led from this source, theperfon who had thus p
voted, probably not feeling inteiefted iu the
event of the eleflion, but brought forward
by the solicitation of some friend or ac-
I quaintance, might not know for whom he
I had voted. It appears, therefore, to be im-
I possible to ascertain with accuracy, the ef- c
I feft of improper or illegal votes, .except they ®
j have been given in a diftrift where the votes j.
I have been all for any one candidate or near-
Ily so. If so many illegal votes hr.d been v
I given in any diftridt as would exceed the dif- ,
I ference between the person returned and the |
one next highest in vote, and all the votes
I given to the lad mentioned candidate in the
j fame'diftrift, it would then certainly be right
j to set aside the return of the fitting member
I and declare the other duly elefled ; but ex- <
I cept in a cafe thus circumstanced, it would w
Ibe wrong to do this,'let the number of il <
I legal votes which have been received, be e- 1
I verso great, as it could only.be introducing 1
I one uncertainty in the place .of another.—
I But they are a 'so of opinion, that the votes '
los qualified eleftors ought not to be fuffered '
Ito be destroyed by admitting" such a num- {
■ Iberof persons to vote who were pot.qualifi
led agreeably to the laws and constitution of j
■ I this (late and of the United States as might
. I change the state. of the poll. Whenever
i such a number has been illegally admitted,
, j whether it be an hundredrh pats or a mbjo-
I rity of all the voters, the committee fee no
- I remedy that can be applied but a new ele&i
. lon, in which proper 'attention may be paid
- I to the qualifications of the perfcvi9 offering
. I to vote : without this be attended to, our j
. I cleftions will not be considered as an expref- j
t I fio.n of the will of "the majority of the citi- j
e I zens, to which the minority arc bound to 5
e submit.
J After due consideration of the cafe now
e before them, they do from the evidence ad
! dticed, give it as their judgment and opini
i- [on that the return of Israel Israel as a Se
el nator, for the djftrift composed of the City
- and County of Philadelphia and County of
Delaware, ought to be set aside.
i, In the arguments of Council on the pre
h I lent occasion, many precedents and authori
i, I ,ie« have been cited, and much ingenious
il I reasoning used, but very few of the cases or
■- 1 authorities are applicable to the mode of
d I holding elections by ballot, and of those
i- I which might be applicable to that mode,
■- I none haw arisen from decisions of commit
i, I tees instituted in that solemn manner which
p l our conflitution and laws at present pre
if I scribe; but little information on the fuhk.fl
n I could, therefore, be derived from those
i- I sources.
le I In determining on the obje&ions made to
[- I the tight of persons to vote at the eleftion,
t, I the committee have been governed by what
r, I they conceived was the law on the fubjeft:
1, I they did not believe they had anyautUority
h I or right to eiercife a mere difcrction, and
i- I in so doing, admit or rejeft without rule, as
bt I the hardship of a cafe or inclination might
le I lead them. The committee'have endeavour
c- 1 ed as far as they are able to (late the grounds
t- I on which they have decided, in order that
i- 1 if their decision fhouldhereafterhequoted,the
reasons on which it was founded might ap
n, pear, and that if it was wrong it might not
to lead others astray,
t- L r
'j By this day's Mail.
in I '
if NEW-YORK February. 16.
e, I Tlie last arrival from London brought an
■it account that the Rev. Septimus Jadfon,
is, chapliiia to the asylum for orphan girls, had
b- been guilty of debauching one""of the chil
dren, to whom hp had likewise administered
te physio to cause an abortion! This man's
to popularity as a preacher was little inferior
of to that of the celebrated Dr. Dodd, who
n- was hanged some years ago: it is a matterof
at regretthathehasnotyetfhared the fame fate,
p- He is a married man, with ; very
pt handsome is his person, and possessed an ex
ed tenfure patronage ; wKTch with his reputa
;n- tion, and the peace of his family are ruined
for e?er, throngh his baseness.
tif- An incident somewhat similar hasjuft oc
cured in thiscity. Ahypocritiati preacher.. • • 11
not content with overcoming the virtue of a I"
frail votary and an orphan, recommend _d her
to destroy the child—the letter was inter-
cepted, and the atrocioHS villain committed te
to jail for tryal ; where wr trntt he will re- Ici
e'eive a part of hi? reward / We are sorry in
that the refpe&able connexions of the Jl
much injured young ladv prevents us from
relating more particular* at present, and t0
holding the canting wretch up to general 1
execration. . so
m 11l 111 Ml «■ H!P«1BOT In
X!)c Csasettc. \
PHILADELPHIA, a,
MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 19. * a
cr
B
At a very large a,nd refpe£lable meeting ec 1
of the merchants, mechanics and other e- k<
le&ors of the ciry and couity of Philadel- "
phia at the city tavern on the 17th Februa- nL
ry, 1798,,
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman, di
THOMAS ROSS, Secretary, ; n
It was unanimously resolved, " That the to
citizens composing. this meeting, will, to ,th
the utmost of their power, exert themCelves °'
individually to promote the eleftion of'j
Benjamin R. Morgan asfenator for this dif- j
tridl ; and they do pledge themfelvea to
come forward with their votes and interest ' j
in his behalf on the day of the said eleflion,
and recommend him to their fellow citizens, °
as a p-ooer chara&er for the said office. al
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman, \
Thomas Ross, Secretary. ,
k
At a meeting of a number-os the irihab-
itants of Delaware county, at the house of-
William Anderfon, in the borough of Chef; | .
ter, February 17th, 1798, j
It was resolved, with only one diflenting
voice, to support Benjamin R. Morgan at
the ensuing ele&ion, for a senator for the
diftriS eompoftd ef the city and county .of • j
Philadelphia, and the county of Delaware.
ELISHA PRICE, Chairman, |
Wm. Martin, Secretary.
At a meeting of a refpe&able number of j
citizens, held on Saturday evening, Febru
ary 17th, at St. Mary's school-house, for j
the purpose of consulting on proper per-
so* to reprefest them in the Senate of this
State, John Leamy in the chair,
It was resolved unanimously to fnpport j
Benjamin R. Morgan, at the Eledlion to be
held on Thursday next, the 22d inft.
JOHN LEAMY, Chairman.
Attest, Carrsll, Sec'ry.
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Southwark, and township of Moyamenfing,
at the house of Mr. James Cameron, in
Shippen street, the following was
unanimously adopted.
Resolved, that this meeting taking into
confidtration the virtues, talents, and patri
otism of Benjamin R. Morgan, do a
gree to support him individually as Senator
at the ensuing ele&ion, being fully conrinc
. Ed that be will use his utmp'ft exertions to
support the laws and constitution of the U
pited States, as well as of the State of
Pennsylvania.
! JOSEPH BIRD, chairman
Clement Humphriys junr., Sec'y.
February 16th 1798.
At a numerous meeting of* the Citizens
' of the Diftrift of Southwark, and town
r I ship of Moyamenfing, at the tavern of Capt.
" ! John Rice, Mr. Jolhua Humphreys in the
! chair ,
) Resolved, That we will yfe our utmost ex
ertions to support Benjamin R. Moroan,
• at the ensuing ele£lion of. Senator to repre
sent the city and county, of Philadelphia,
and county of Delaware ; being
that at this time, peculiarly important, and
interesting to all the advocates of the ad»"
miniltration of the government of the U
nited States, tofuppcrt thofewho are known
to be the friends of order and good govern
ment, is a measure which our duty compels
5 us to adopt.
C Humphreys, Chairman.
Peter Mierckcn, Sec'ry.
e 14th Feb. 1798-
'» —_
" At a meeting of a number of the Citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Oyden's
~ Tavern, on Tuesday, 13 th February, 1798,
. it <was unanimously resolved.
e To support Benjamin R. Moroan,
at the ensuing Ele&ion, as Senator for the
a Diftrift, composed of thpeity and connty
' of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
lt LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman.
: M. Kkffele, Secretary.
y
MR. FENNO,
" Thursday next it the day appointed for the
eleflion of a Senator of the State Legifiature.
r- Mr Morgan and Mr. Israel Israel ate proposed
U at candidates for that important office. It is
,t not my intfntion t» draw a tomparifnn between
th* two character*. The contrail is too obvi
ous. Mr. Morgan is well known to be a man
>_ of genual information, of a liberal education,
and of amiable manner*; he has served this city
forfeveral yea'l pa ft in a legislative Capacity,
= with honor to himfeif, and with ufefulnefs to his
country ; and above all, those valuable qnaliS
cations of a Senator—he is a man firmly attach
ed to the aonftitotion cf his country, and to the
peace and pood order of fotiety. Of Mr. Is
rael's qualifications, I know of none, imlefs it be
,n a recommendation to fay that he is supported
n > by the French faflion, and the ftditious foreign
id patriots, who have taken refuge in jhis country
il- from the juflice that was about to be adtninifler
ttj ed on them in their own.
L > If ever our country was in an alarming and
melancholy fituatien, it is at this moment. If
or ever there was a time that <>br country called
aloud-for the firm fidelity, and the govern
of men! for the deeifive fnppport of the well difpof
:e. Ed citizms, it is now —The lime is now arriv
ry ed, when every friend to the peace and harp ! -
g" nef? of his country will avowedly declare him
, felf the firm fupporier of its mfjfures, antfvherk
the rapid pr'jp rfs of fjflion. This is not the
time for the citizen, averse Ts contef!< of every
kin<l tcvfiy " 1 -will not interest myfelf in the
ic- political world, I have other cares to occupy my
attention" 1 Kn'W, then, th.it th- rf -ire impor
tant political duties of a good citizen, an j t hi*
is ilie time our couit-v demands of Us that we ol
p*rform thetn —This is not the time if>rcool in* o;
difference. Dees not the Iti* m of fafiiar. ex- at
te,nd itfelfin twry JireSion ? If the peaceful 01
citizen will not l!ep forward on the days «f elec- <ji
lion, *1! tlmfe barrier." which ptoie\ft our lives ef
and oer libertie?, will be tnrn tfce peace th
and happiness of I'icii ty w.ll be wholly dcflroy- o]
ed, at. d the friend of good order will be devoted cr
to the fury of a in-b th
Young as this country is, (he has had already re
to contend with an enemy within her bnl'om. oj
Is the spirit of the insurgents chanjted, or are ta
they reaJv to rife when in opportunity offers ? w
L"ok to their repreO- ntatioti I Was not one of ti
the candidates for Senator, so avoweJly the et
fritnd of tbat infurreflion, that it became the et
dutv of the chief juUice to hold him in recogni- so
zance for his g*>od beh:>vour ? Have his
changed ? Look to- the heads of his pa ty — pi
Bache, D aiid M?C ! Weare inform- at
ed, that at a late d;mcxratic meeting,ritiren Bar- so
ker conclude-I a harangue wilh tliefe words — th
" Now is the I ,ne -If nue carry lftatl Ifraeh w
•wefhallhtreufter, like Bnonapbrte, CONQUiR fr
ALL BK FO*' US." th
Under~thefe considerations, tell me if, on the
day of the theie will be founJ want- of
ing one friend to Kn country, whu will rrfiife m
to turn • -tit as the tnemy of infurreflion, and w
the firm and decisive supporter of good order, ai
of peace and the happinsfsof society. ei
PHILOPOLI rss.
- m
MR TENtIO,
It i« with pleasure that t inform you, rt
thai the violent proceedivgs of the'ftiends
of Mr. Israel has had the happy efFc& to -j
animate the friends of order, several persons n
are now very aftive, who had not even de- tl
clar-ed their fentimenti, before the infiilt of- b'
fered to Mr. Morgan's friends wa» made *
known—Other*, though residing here for
some years, had not been naturalized, are
now coming forward in open court, to join j,
! the friends of the confUtution and govern- o
' nient. h
I do Bot mention these things with a view 1
to leflen the exertions of our friends in the '
cause of the commonwealth ; No. I pub- t
lilh them, that they may stir up others to
the exercise of their molt sacred rights, while r
in their power. For it is most certain, that j
the fame spirit, which has led them to in
trude onour private companies.will lead them ,
to exfirpate. every civil-right, which we, 1
citizens of the United Stated, and of Penn- 1
fylvania glory in, and which in duty we ate 1
bound to deliver pure to our posterity.
Let every citizen if he believes that- op- 1
position will gain the election of Mr. Israel,
let him, I fay, come forward with his vote
and influence, to lelfen the majority of the
Jacobins. And let ever/ person who ia con
fident in the eleftion of Mr. Morgan, come
forward and strengthen that confidence by
every contlitutional measure in his power.
Let us endeavour to incrcafe the majority,
as the sure and the only means left, to se
cure the poQcffion us our invaluable privi
leges.
Not boasting, but with regret, I add,
that my exertion extended wight turn
ed the late eleftion in Miv Morgan's fa'vdr,
and prevented the pirefent difagreeak3« cottr
test. A Citizen of thi United Statu.
MR. FtNtIO, *
Giving a place in the United States 'Ga
zette,, and Daily Acivertifer, t« the following
rxtracfl from the works of William' Pt nh. vol
4th, will at this time ly acceptab'e, and have a
tendency to excite many citize'nt. toje-xercife
their right of fuffrage at the ensuing. election for
a Senator for the dillriS of the Ciiy and Colin,
ty of'PhitadelphM ami County of Delaware, in.
' the flat* of Pennsylvania. > * ' ' '
England's great interelt ifi the choice of this fie w
Parliament, dedicated to Jtll ht» Freeholders
: and F.ieflors—ijsublilhtd ip tbe year 1679.
Since it lutlt plealcd God and the King to
begin to revive and restore to us our antient
right cf frequent Parliaments, it will greatly
' concern as to our pr»fent intereftj and there
"m the-future liap'pinefs of our poflerity, to a<£l
' at this time with all the wisdom, Caution and in
j fintfs, and that if by a negle£l of this lingular
opportunity, wr defeit ourselves, and ferfake
. our own mercies, we must expedl to be left of
„ God and good men too.
And let me be free with you, if you intend to
save poor England, yon mull general
8 meifnre, viz. to guide and fix your choice upon
men that you have reifon t > believe are well
affctfled, able and bold, to iervethe country in
thefc refpefls.
Liflly, among these be fare to find out and
cad you favour upon men of large principle*,
I'uch avwill not facrifice their neighbours pinper
' ty to the frowardnefs of their own party in re
-1 ligion : Pick out such men, as will inviolably
'i maintain civil rights, for all that willlive sober
ly and civilly under the government.
» "***
e MR. FENNO,
„ told'that Dr. Leib afT<rted at tie townfliip
meeting, in the Northern Liberties, that he " was
infoimed ly indubitabls authority ol a design on
the part cf the oppi/aentt of Mr. Ilracl to raise a
riot on theeleilian ground in the Northern Liber
ties, tn order that a new pretext might be offer-d
for letting aside the eUAioa." This fable is believ
•d tb have been the creature of hi* own productive
fancy' He is cal'ed upon, however, to produce
P | his proofs, and to designate the pcrlons who are
. guilty of f<s atrocious a • off nre against the rights
15 of 'uflrage. Hit the duty of every member of so
ciety. not only to a£GU ill pnnilhing, but likewise.
'* to »flift in prevmtug, tli'f tommiffion of crimes.
in In doing so he will meet the applaufc of all parties.
»> a rtsAAtLi rs»t*Ai.nr. ■ .
y [ Tbrfarrgtm* rist laxdM'uj yej'iiniay mtrnmg —r*tke
y, ' Aurtra of tbit it tbt fultovning iorrcltrtitivt
is article.]
To the friends of Israel Israel in the city and coun
ty of Philadelphia.
,f The party attached to Mr. Morgan, will endea
vor on she day of eleAion toprovoke riots, brdiN,
®e all j personal contcft, ,1 seriously recoonsietid to
you to avoid any ej>nten:i»n on the ground. 1 hey
r« .'.are not infnlt you with impunity, and yon may
1-y rtfent it at a future day.
r- This diladvantage will result, that (hou'd they
provoke yon to with them it will be aground
id to contefl the result ol the el. Aion.
If We are able to out'vote these people, and they
rd will resort to artifice and to chicane to destroy our
n- efforts. * DauocaaT.
v- The managers of the City Danc
ing Affrmhiy give notice that en acconnt of an E
n" le&ion to ke held on Thorfdry the aid inft. the
k Ball in honor of 6tnaoi W.sshinoton'» birth,
1e u poflored to Priday the ljJ instant.
ry I.adies and Gentlemen are rrqucfled to deliver
tie their l ards of liiviwtii-o at the door.
iy Feb. 17. Stiii
CQUHWNtCATIOW:.
It I» a vi ly oblervation that the friends,
of povernrvent, peace and personal security, tl:a
on!v trtiefi ien !s :o liberty, arc not foalert,a<f)tre
and tnttf.-pnjfing in prosecuting those mealurei
on which the permanent happinets of focietv
depends, as thoi'e of an »[»poiite delcription, in
rffefling a subversion of the existing order rf
thinj/s; Tlitre may befome foundation for ihi*
opinion; ami it is of the utraoft importan.-e to
counteract the baneful eflfefh which result from
the criminal fupinrnefs of the former, and the
reftleft intripuesof the latter. Those who-are
opposed to the genera! administration of the ef'
tahlifikCd government, are commonly perfoni,
who having little or nothing to lose, except their
time, which hangs heavy 011 their hands, unleft
employed in mi'chief, are always *t leifurt to
engage in finding flaws a.id tinkering the slate,
forever made worie for their mending.
Men will labor and toil for years to acquire
property —they form government! to defend
and protest that property, their lives and per
sons—but alas ! when this is done, they leave
the ou; ports unguarded, the ertemv enters
while <hey flecp and ere they are aware, the
fruits of their industry is wrefled from them by
the lawless fpns of jnarchy and misrule.
The pen-'ing eleilion will prov j a touchfton*
of the pacriatifm of those who love the govern
ment— ;f they turn out ind vote, all (hall be
well —if not they may repent when the flood of
anarchy comes and,(weeps thelm and their prop*
eity away ; but it wi|l late. ;
The antit'ederal faction . are of a reprsbate
mind; it is not jII_ the .eloquence of a Cicero
that.wo»ld m ve lhem ; a full view bf the hor
ror* that would swait' theic triumph over the
general government vould be'to them a source
of the moll heartfelt plea Cure ; let the federal*
ills therefore do more and lay Ufs -rif they will
nt turnout and vote against perfjns holding
the principles whi'h have deluded Europe in
b'.otd, they will ji.ftly merit »I 1 the mifcries
which await their lupfnftlefs.
-L. "
Let any difpaflionate xnjir. jojiced man view the
conduct of ti ofc peilons who have he ninccflant
-1) einhatraflitig !>y iheir opposition, the meiftirM .
of government, borh fldte and contintntal, and
he rr.uft be fully impreflen! with thi« important
tru'h—Thst the delays and extrao/dinkry eipcn
which have attended all uur public proceeding?,
are jullly imputable to the men who cry outagainft
the waste of public time and money. ■
In the cafe of Lyon had the c'rcumflances been
. reverfeil, can any man doubt whe-her it woald
have taken mare than en, Jay to have feu ltd the
bufinels f
In the (late feftate, what a lenghly, patient, and
expensive investigation of the elusion of Israel
Israel took place that full and comphat juftics
(hoald be donc.ev ry cir nmUanoc was fifted The
result is well known, and now forfooth the inte
grity and honor of the senate are impeaehed.—
I'htfe superlative patriots fay,—" The rights of
the people have been violated by a drcifion »f 4
committee of the fenate."—lf all the public reve
nues were facrifieed to save one of thur pruftitu
ted elections, it would all be right.
Members of Congress, who are desirous of in
forming themfelveeof the efFeas of the Natural
ization Law, on this country, are earnestly re
queued to flep into the court now fitting—All
friends to good o, der and gevernment, who
have not paid ftiuch attention to the ;>refent lit
uation of this country, are also etrneflly re
queued to make the fame vi lit They willihen
no longer Ihew a cool indifference to the politi
-1 cal concerns of .this country.
Married at Charhjlon, ,C.) on Tuts
■ day the 23 d uli. by the Rev. Dr. Callcher,
Francis ds PAU-Efq. to Mtfs Svltia di
Grass#, daughter of tlx late Count De Graf
. /<■ r ■' v
A letter from Baltimore day's mail
informs that two veflVIS- b>l#h|;ing to that
. City have been feizedaffd'condemiied at the
, late Spaniffi port'of ■ St. Domingo in His
. paniola, for having Britiih manufaflures or
1. goods on board', and thaeit' is the determi
nation of the French theie', 'so condemn all
vessels found in t'hefr 'posts or taken on the
s high seas, with British- m4nufa£hirc« £on
board.
» ; .
c • NEW-THEATRE.
\ THIS EVENING,
fbbroary 19,
r Will btfentcd the 1 RAGEDY of
The ORPHAN;
1 Or, THE UNHAFPT MARRIAGE.
To Which will he added (for the 3d time) a Grand
0 Heroic Pantomime Ballet and Spe&acle, taken
' from OJ/idn, called
1- OSCAR. AND MALVINA.
1 "P*HF. term of Co-partnership betweeo she fuk-
I (bribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
d lef, jaa.and Co. expires this day, atid bf mutual
consent will not be renewed* The debts and con
•- cerns of the fame will be fe»tled by John Miller,
i- Jun. to whom all these indebtrdjto th pannerftiip,
y are earnestly requeued to make payment to, with*
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
fehtßary 19 §tf
P , FQR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
a No. 8, Chtfout ftrcc,
r d A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
r _ auomost WHIOH A*t—
,• Gurrahs . Msmeolics
:t . Eattas > S«pn;s
Guzzenas Tanda ColTaes
Guzzits Emenici
Blue Cloths • | Calicees
( ' C Palampoors Roirall Han-lkeichiefs
, s Amongst them-art a great propartio iof the ma
( aufatSures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
L S O,
vt Forty high proof Rum*
F'-brtiary 19 C
J - Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfijip under-the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
to TNFORM their friendsiti town aod country, that
ry A th y hare opened a Wholtfile llry Good Store,
ly at No. 64, South Front Street > Fhiladel phia ; whero
they now have, and intend kteef4njf a general af
•y fojtment of I*dia % Germ**, Irijl, Frtntk and Bri
id lijh Manmfadluresfoi sale, on advantageous tern t
for caih or a (hort crecit.
:y February 1Q ' ftf
" For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bale 9 of Munint, being the re
mains of the (hip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
he , 7 Boxes of Umbrellas
h, 25 Pipes of fine ft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mcrdecai Lewis.
' February 19 dawI souse i.nd Loti, in Bordaihwn.
' I 'O BE SOLD, a hardforne two ftorv House,
* u itli the Lot on which i' i» erected, fituat
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
J-lordentown. The house is farty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lor
i nnfaiii one acre, and i» one hundred feet on
th* main f'reet, and extends with the fame
breadth to back (Inet. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly foijr acres, separated from the
Jormer by back Veei. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
wJI be given a* (be purchifer may chufe. This
property will b« fold free of all incumbranocs,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refrlirtg in Bardentown, near
tbe premiles, who will ftiew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
TVri-mher i.
Salilbury Eltate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to coatrad hit b«fi«
ness, offers this EftUe for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furwrcs,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grill
Mill, with tw* pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
to perteft repair, as are all the Water Works conne&-
eri with thefc various branches. The Air Furnaces
weve lately built tor the porpofe ef casting Cannon
Sot this iitste.—There are about two thouiaod acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the exeellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in tht« country, and probably, equal
to any in tbe world ; for not oue of fiftty-nme guns
lately made, although some of the 94 were bored
into 3a pounders, have failed on proving. The fiiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
jnanufa&ure, and a place of arias lying in the state
of Cennc&tcut, and only 36 miles from several land «
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan.
Uge tbat can result from a plenty of water iiTuing
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the stock and utenfiis, and have pofieffioa
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean si oae for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will he delivered
in good order, with some cot I, Ore, dec. dec. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E(q. one of the Reprefentat-ives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, & <vid Waterman, on
tbe prcrnifes, or totbtpropiietor in Wew-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. «. flawtf
Tt Cabinet Makers, Joinets, izfe.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine flreet, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their frienoa and the
public, for their liberal encocrageacnt,
and hope, by their unretniiitig attention, to
merit a continuance of thtir favors. The part
«crffiip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
been diflolved by mutual conient. Cavanagh
and Hearn havejuft received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Hoodura* Mahogony, which they
intend to fell on very reasonable terms for caOi.
Orders from the coimtry most puniiually exe
cuted. Vincers of all kinds cut u usual.
Ja*. rj. iaw4w
■ 1 ■ ■*
Recently Publijhed>
And imported from England, by
daiFFi rus, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Moae n ]. Rules,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes in Bvo. (price J dollars)
Illustrations of Prophecy : •
la wlx'th are elucidated many predidions, which
occur mlfaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gefifti, and book ol Revelation ; whiA are tho't
to foretell araon(jothjr great events, a revolution
>ll France, lavorahle to the intereSs of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ccclcfi
aflical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
•ndßieliri>fcquent raeli.ration of th, (late of the
wArld : tagctkcr with
A large collection of Ext rafts,
laterfperfed tbrongh the work, and taken from
numerouscsmraentators, particularly from
Joseph Mcce, Sir Isaac Newton,
Titrhija, Mr. Wflliam Lowth,
Dr. Th.Oood*io, Fleming,
Di. Hcmy More, Bengellus,
Dr. John Owen, DaubuX,
Dr. Cfcffeoer, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, 1 owman,
Brenius, Bilhop Newton, and
Bifli"p Chandler. . Bi(hop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Be£dei various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous iliufirations of prophecy ;
it contains a cnfidcrable numbir of fa&s or ob
fcrvationson the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authen icity, uses, and ebfeurrty of (he apo
ttlypfe, and thegenuinenefs of th« Hebrew pro
phets; on the rapid corruption of chriftiaiiity in
live fourth century ; on the difperlion and refiora
ti.n of the Jews, the history of the falfe Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the rtafons
In support of the conj (SlHrc that the Afghans are
the dafcendants of the ten tribes; on the right of
mGflacce to oppri-flinn; on the irruptions of th>
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fall of tie lonian empire ; on the cufloms of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs j oc
th: conquefU of thole nations, and those ol th.
Turks; on the ufurpntionof the Mamalukes, and
th« part history and present (late of Egypt; on
the eharaiter andcond«<S of Conftantine juiliui
ij, Clovis and Lewis XIV • on the scarcity of
books in the dark age*, and the caufcs of the de
cline of literature ; on th. rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall; on the in
confiftenrics in the political charaflersof bifliops
Newton and Hurd; on the peculiarities of Dr
Th Burnet's theory of the earth j on the ben.ficial
effc&s which ehriftianity has produced in favor o
learningand civil \nJ its tendency to pr«-
motethecHaMilhmi nt .f equal governments
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in thef volumes, those who are
Intcrefted in thefubjed will, it isp cfumed, wi(h
to peruse or confultthcm, bccaufe the extradb in
troduced ia them, which are accuratoly cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a:
l»a# if the ron-an catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than .are eafiljr accelßble to any .nc indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probibly to be found
ifc any one library iu the world. They are l.r
niflied with indexes, and a coi ioua table of con-
Jan 12 iawiw
imported in the fhipMan uh i,st e r,
Benjamin Shewill, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and fur sale by the subscriber,
No. it Walnut St eet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Irish market claret in cafe# / Entitled to
Vledoc wincf iu do. | Drawback.
Sautetne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd, .
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine iu pipes an J quarter caflcs
Rota . do. do.
P men to in bags
4CJol>u(beU Liverpool fait.
Aug. .34. tut&stf.
W. Haybon
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he.has ltudied several years under one of
the most eminent matter* in that science)
INFORMS his friend?', that he has re-comsnenc
e 1 his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three timet a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Qrn amental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on*h« above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to thok that em-ploy him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in oae family. •
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office, of this 1
Gazette, will be immediately atternfed to.
January 9. §*w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the !aft will and testament of
Willi\m Hfysham, deceased, and poflef
fio* given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth streets, confid
ing of the houfc, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&ed, a AahU, and other improvements.—
Thehoufe is %o feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
. house and *O9 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled crflern, both with pumps
[ in goop repair. The liable (lands on the rear of
1 the lot and will accommodate four hprfes and a car
riage*. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a *6 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poiTefles with refpe<fl to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfou wtfhing to poflefe an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—©f
Robert Heysham, }
or >A&ing Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayrk, )
January II §
The Subscriber
INFORMS thof; whom it may interest or con
cern, that th« Judges ef th« Ccnrt of Common
Pleas have appointed AfjnJay, tbe tWHty-Jixtb ttny of
February next, t» heir him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubjeS of his peti
tion tor the benefit of the lafolvent Law—and
tbat their attendance is de&red.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PbilaJltplia, Jan. 16. eoti6thF
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, Jftancftnß in the name
of A. B. No. *OO4, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
, bavinjr'bceu loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. t. t^6w
The Subscriber,
Informs thof« to wham he i« indebted, that hit
books, which have been kept open for their infp.c
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the J eft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnnt Street for
their further investigation and fctut ; ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. id 179?.
"notice;
ALL prvfons who have any demands a pain ft
th. estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and those who arc indebted
ra the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOK^ON,
No, a S ,So. Third-ftrett. 5 Admtn 'J >r r
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December I, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acre*6B perches
of land, fiittate in lower Smithfield townflsip
, Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyorluth mads the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heir, of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadliead, I.fq, Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parkrr.
The firft Monday iaMarch next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on thi a'ore caveat, or any
.then interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty day. notice for John Hall, jecratary
of the Land Office. m
N. Lufborough.
Jamiary ti §tiFiwt«
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlrnt, neat Fifth.
January 19 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be at a moderate prie*—lnquire a
No. 13S, Arch-ftreat.
Jan. 17- dtw
To be fold,
AN F.LEO ANT COUNTRY SP.AT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat tw.
(lory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate »n the Irilh trail lane, in the
tnwnlhip of Vtoyamenfing, about one mile from
th« city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be ni de known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for talle and
el gance. Hand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronagc, the
Subforilwr i* emb.ldened to issue propolis
for printing hy fubferip'ion, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 1775,10
the present time.
This work IhaH be printed with a new type,
made for the purpefe ; and .n good paper. It
will be delivered at o-.ie dollar per volume (o&a- J
vo) in 6 v.'s.—tafli to be paid on delivery.
It isneedlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of |
thi» undertaking—th-. scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United Srates, is fufficient to jufti
fy th« printer in hit hope of meeting with that i
fuceefs, whi«h he ii certain thj enterprise dcOrves
JOHN PARKER.
J" 1 -*?- d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whale and bats tierces
Bout denux Brandy t
Tcneriffi- It'ine t
Motujfcs c
Georgip emd Carolina Indigo u
Rxieni Duck and one bogjhead of faiit f
brujhes.
N. & y. Frazer.
A#. Sontb Front Street.
AW m
Juji Pubh/hed, *
And to be had of Mrfirs. Dohfon, Campbell,Rice, p<
Cary, and the ether pricipal Bookfcllers in tSe
city,price one dollar, twinty-fivc cent#,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America. .
Cy BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d. 1,
June io. '4 C 0l
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRIXTINC UV SUBSCRIPTION ,
5t A KtLW AfcD INTCftESTINC IVO*K, CNTIT uk D,
A TREATISE
" ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a derail of the various crime* an<l
demeanors by which public and private proper
ty, arc, at prcfent, injured and endangered :
A lid iaggefting remedies for their preventiou.
0 IT A MAGISTRATE,
A«fting for the counties of Middldex, Surry, Kent,
• s aud liffex ; for the city and liberty of Wertmin
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
To tbofe 7vbo have read this curious ami valuable t vork %
it ivill need no retommendation—they knetv its solid merit
*—but as it has hitherto got into very fezv bands in this
' country, it to ill not be amiss to obfervc —Jo great no as the
J a PP r obation and demand in 1 omton, that it pojftd through
three farge editions in the c:urf« tivelvc months. As a
detail of the ingenious varieties fraud, that endanger
pnptrty in London, ard moll other <rver<\r-cwn and opulent
- eilie *, it cannot Jail to afford the reader great entertainment
as ivell as injlrutlion ; hut as the author traces all these
1 enormities to a feiQ 9 and in themfelves y imonftdcrable cauf
-1 es > many of r obi eh ailually exifi in all the large capitals of
' the United States, the huftr.efs is brought bine to our oion
doors ; and the work has an ir.crstjtng claim to our at ten'
tiveperufal.
e gif J tor and the v.ag'frate in the humane
*jfee of preventing crimes, and their consequent punijh-
L * mrnts, tvas the patriotic drftgn of the author. " Private
iffe nees, he fays, are the source of public crime*, and the
Y befl method of guarding society agasnjl the latter is, to make
" proper provilons, for checking the former"—Thofe men
are eafi'y ft duct dfrom their Uya'ty rvho are upoflatts from
c virtue
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
'• an exceiler.t EngiiQi paper—lt will be delivered t«
fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half i although the last London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, n
now fold at f wo dollars and a half. To non-sub
scribers the j>riee will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to t'he profs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
" publication early in April.
£/* Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin BaviesVs book-ftoie, No 68, High
ftrekt, and by molt of th« other booksellers in tlie
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
j ucl Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York.
I January 31. 2awtA
= ROSS S* SIMSON, "
C HAVE FOR SALE,
' A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of licnga! COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags andboxe*
8 Jamaica,
" St. Vincents, V RUM.
and Btngal J
1 300 cafli RICE, and
r A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oft. 27- f
To be Exchanged for
Sritifb, German, er India Goods,
IN THE FACKACE ;
( A trail of valuable Land
f In Lyeoming, joining that of the Holland eo.
and captaining jo,ooo Arres.
Inquire of the, Printer.
i T»n- K. $
e COLUMBiA HubaJi
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand returns her sincere ac
_ knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
, fcheol, (he has made a superior arrangement for
~ the more conv«nie»t accommodation of her
. scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
I Groombridge and masters excelling in (heir
- refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, j 797. fimftf
r The Ctdation is perfedlly healthy : and made
r more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
' °f ground adjoining the house.
' FOR SALE,Tr~
Wm. Young's Btok Store,
No. 51, Second Oreet, th« corner of Chefnut street.
- 13 EPORT of the Committee of the youfe of
Rcprtfentatives o( the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and repurt Articles of Impeachment
againtt WILLI4M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis.
demeanors, made in -urfuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess ot Congress, and
inftiu&ing them " to enquire, and, by all lawfal
" means, todifcovcr the whole siature and extent
" of theoffence whereof the laid William Mount
" (lands impeache..', and who are the rartiet and
" affociatesther«ii."
Printed by order of the House of Keprefentative!
December 10.
> French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnat-ftreet,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
puage, that he has just opened his 1 mKABr, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufcfu'i inltru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, *ay be seen at every book-feller's
m town.
*. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanifli Languages, exeeu:ec with ac
curac> and dispatch. eoim mv. ijf.
Samnel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcel,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable OOODS,
which they arc now opening for sale, on
reafomhle terms. Oil 17 —4W 1
This Day is PuDliihed,
BY Mess. Uobfon. Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Book Tellers, -*
Price One Dollar and twenty-fivecents,
Elegantiy printed on Wove paper, and Hot- 1
prejjed, ;
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF '
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with '
that of the Uaited States: exhibiting in Tables, '
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claHing together thrir most impertant proviflons, c
under the several heads of administration ) with t
Notes and Observations. (
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suuth Carolina,
L L. D. an'd mem'«er of the Congress of the
' United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States. '
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa- r
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. n
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be given out every fccond, fourth, and (ixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and it
I ark of do. 52, l'oulh fifth flreet, aheve Spruce
(lrcct. eodaw
*
James C. Samuel W. Fiflier.
AT THEM STORE,
No.Sij, corner of Arch an 4 Front ftrctt.
H AVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, affored
A few bale* red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchief
Ditto Puilicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetie»
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
* Few ch«os best Hyson Tea
Alfo—lsoo boxes Heft London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, fl9 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glaf*
Ware assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
' Nov 18 3tawtf
•t Imported ( via New Ycrk) on the
b (hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
3 sale by the fuKfcriber, at N™. 61, Chc<nut ftrect,
r between Second and Third Streets, the follow*
1 iag articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorsns
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Rornals ISandanfioes
f Nillas 5c l'enfiafoet Chafla Rornals
n Blue cloth I'lair ribbon
Mul4 Mull-hanker chiefs Palempores
Patna do. Ban ares Opium
* LelTcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
\ novenibw 17 t«ths4w
* Valuable Books,
m Ju ft received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormros, No. 41, Chefnut Street.' j
1 CATALOGUES
1 Of the newly imported books maybe had gra
c til. Thel'e added to 0'» usual stock, form an
1 4xtt»fivc and elegant colle<9io« of ancient and
* modern literature, and oomprife books in fuu
dry languages and on various fubjefls,
t Th'u Day ii PulTtlhed,
By J. Or.mrod, (Price 75 cents, ha»dfomely
bound and lettered, and embelliflied with an
t elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
- The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O &,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colletfion of interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy effeits »f youthful in
nocence and filial affeiHon—ln prole and verse.
[ Defigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pabliihed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Edueation.
Subfcripiions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fubfcrihers neatly bound, lettered and
emhellilhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3.
Pvr sale, bt
William Priestman,
149, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-house,
■A large ajfortment of
Gold and iilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Pistols, by Knublcy, Charing
Cross
Refleflisg Telefcnpe, by Ribright
Box of patent Medicines
Ao lb. Scotch Thread
Small colledlion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in ont lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentuirky, pa
tented by Pert ival Butler, in 1787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watahes bought.
January .4. H?t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. ?2, Second-Ilreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
meut of FnglJi, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fiich elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the filth edicio«, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large nmo price j del 75 «t». |
Ditto, common, price X dol. 50 cts.
All of drawing, packing, printing, aid ,
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards, j
flu-athiug and Wotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the heft quality, used in the counting house, or
public office,
£> Catalogues of a miscellaneous colletftion of ,
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 0<&. 24. jawiw
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases. 1
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol.oflavo.
By William Young, Boolcfelitr,
No. j i, Second street, the comer of Chefnut Itreet,
(Price, in btardt f 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V TEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliflied in the elements •,
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D. £
With an attempt to correil some important e-r- 7
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief- h
ly felefled from the records of their prat Sice, at fa
the General Hospital at Calcutta, a
Bt William Tatbs & Cuas. Mkclean. hi
To which isfubjoined, a Treatise on the a&ion w
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- hi
tion for the cure of diseases of indiredl debilitv.
Andadiflertation onthe fou'rets of Epidcmicand, "
Pestilential diseases; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fa<Os, that they ne- ,
ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ- ,
ced by certain states, or certain viciffitildes of
the atmafphere, h,y Charles Maclean, «f
Calcutta. , /"
nov. tt. Ji 2 t
Wanted, to Hire, /
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in .r near V.
the centre of the city—for which a generous A
r«n>. will be given ; to be taken tor a year, or on Li
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer. |' u
Oft. »!• eotf
Tin Plates, co
FOR SALS Br Fl
SIMON WALKER,
Piut, near Fifth ftxeet.
December at. iw
'. The cargo of the Wefl-Indian fro*
Jamaica, landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhds. and 300 barrels choice CoHiee
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
£9 Hhds. of Rum.
For fate By
Peter Blight.
WH» ALIOOEfIRt FO* IALI^
500,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags co. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A Quantity of Hifpaoiola Cocoa
Ked Port Wine in pipes and hogsheads
• 9> Madeira do, in pipes
ft> tefarwary 6 dlweotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a confideraUle time on the
j milßoii in the country parts of the ftateof Penn
r fylvania, gives this notice to any extensive pro-
C prietor of land within the said ftati, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufqwehanna, op
Juniata rivcr« ; thai he is enabled to make a fat
tlement with from fifty te one hundred and fit
ls tv families, if due encouragement be nfiered.—-
! For fu-ther information, apply te the Rev. Lto
nard Neale, Willing's Alley.
Feb. 8. », t
kj" Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from kis matter's employ, ia tbe
city of Philadelphia, po the sth of tiutin
ftant Febi«ary, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bivut 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
~ a spare *iake ; his pjtifiognnmy is vacant but noC 1
I difugreeable; his age is supposed to be about 4/). I
n He had on when he went away, a short b;*e cloth {
v coat, striped eaffimere reft, corduroy breeches.,
' and yarn stockings of a blue and white mixture-*-
i he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a Ihorc blue cloth coat with
JJ buff coloured cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of lilui
cloth breeches; the other cloathos he took with
- him cannot be particularly described.
j ' c " supposed, he intends going to the eaficra
! (bore of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend,and
secure tha said negro in any gaol, so that his master
y may get him agaiD, or bring him home) Oiallhavo
, a reward of twintt dom.ars.
* Apply to the Printer,
i February 7. $
' * FOR S/tLB, '
By JOHN MILLER, JW «. Co.
No. 8, Chdnut-ftreet,
1 One hundred and eighty bales
\ BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which arc,
Gurrafcs Mamoodioe
Sannas
Guiz . nahs Tanda CojTjwi
Cuzz«<* Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoor, Romall Handkackiefc
I Amongtt them are a great proportion of die
c tnaiiufa&ures of Patna.
j December I.
j Insurance Olhce of" the State of
= Pennsylvania. .
February l, 1798.
THE Direflors have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars on carh share of the (lock of tbe
compaav, for the last fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders 91 their legal reprefunta
tivesafter the roth inft.
JAMES S. COX, trefuUnt.
February r. dyt
~~ For Sale.
THE Subscriber offer<for sale the property now
occupied by huii in the town of West-Chester
r and county of C hefter. It confiUsof a well finifhei
two (lory stone house, 43 feet front, by aboßt 40
docp, lour rooms on a fleer, with cicled garrets,.
\ and a cellar under the whole—A very good flone
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Ground,
three pcrehes wide, by twenty perches depth.
1 he house (lands on the Main street; its situation
is high and very handsome ; the lot «xtends to a
back street, on which the liable and coach houfc
stand. Iht let is in a high (late of cultivation,
. and there is in tfce yard a pump of excellent water,
which lias, at no time, been known t® fail. \
The situation ©f the town is high, and remark* |
ably healthy—the country around it, fertile and
beautiful.
1 he term* of payment will made to suit tho
pur chafer They, and the price, will be ftttled,
up- n application to Mr. Jonathan Sm th, at ho.
149, South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwfcf
City Commissioner's Office, '
"January nth, 1798,
FOR TBI INFORMATION f'F THt CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by tbe
said coinmiflioners, for cleanflne the
ftretts, &c ®
Diftritt No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hieks.
I From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Gkefnut ftrreet, to be under tbe
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Jofep'h Claypoo'e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
foirth fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
riermtendance of Hugh Roberts. ruwfim
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Dan. •
icJ Crawley, Master,
So hhrfs. and ) F„ • i-v »
n pipe. | Jamaica RUM, ,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Es 3 Son.
*wcmber 9. f
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY fr®m the fubferiber, on the 24th
of December, 1797, a N gro Man, about 11
I years old yy the name of Cato.he is about 5 feet
7 or incites high, midling well proportioned; ho
has a very cearfe voice, his fore teeth ftanJ vcrf
tar apar" ; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
him, for he rook two or three suits ; he had oil
when he went away, a pair of kerlcy trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn woo*
bat ; lie took with him four very good fliirtt— t
#xpc& he has made for Philadelphia or tbe Jerseys.
Whosoever takes up laid negro and f.cure, him, so
that the owner maygef him again, (ball have the
above reward, paid by mr, JOHN MOORE,
Living iu St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
'"""H"- *6taaw _
Chocolate and Muflard,
of a ftiperior quality manufatfsred,
GINGER and l-'epper, ground ; /belled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, I
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burtpn Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine)
luUable for exportation or home consumption.
The highest for Mustard-Seed.
yit/o forfait, A quantity of Booking and
coimmon Baize;, a varietv of ro'ors; a baleof
Fuftiaiii, Shawls, Sec fnrf?ltb v
JOHN HA WORTH,
J-o. 98, south Fiont-ftreer.
nru. ij. m &t«.t.lj.