Wtttl) ahb Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1749.J
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scriber*, on Walnut street Wharf, -
195 casks of nails assorted
*0 bales <fi( fail caovafs, from No. x to 8
53 calks yrflnw ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 dor. each
W» 4 3r'"i M.deita Wine.
Teneriffedo. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
assorted for the Weft-India "market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and to toils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands and presses /
30 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
X6O bundles sheathing paper
A STAZ 0 N,
ilTTWrlnr Fnr Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin (3* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
1 Hambtir'h Brig
H E N R 1 E TT A ,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler y
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Wain's wharf—A
stout, ftronjr velTel, of about 270 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
teady to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight ohly, to
PRATT fcf KINTZING,
No. 9?, North Water-street.
Wh% have JUST'RECEIVED, and FOk SALE,
12 bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
a do. Patterbornes
J do. bleached HcHians
U package Oil Cloth
l: rheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
3© Liquor Cases
29 anchors pearl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallboxes, Rice, BriTiftone, Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Rolls, Polifti Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, See &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march 20 tu'hsiw
FOR SALE.
Sugar
aoo Hides
Will bq landed to-morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's -wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
The faidßrigforfale,
T&M' And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu HoU'ingJworth & Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
** i! ~^~S!fe ;:^Having great partof her cargoen*
gagsd.—For freight apply to
JeJJe is" Robert Wain.
February 26 $
t or Sale or Charter,
GOODHOPE
Will carry about tzoo barrels, and
is ready totake in a eargo. Forterms
apply to
Pragers £s* Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who hav: fer sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win».
November 7. dtf
To be Let,
(And pofTcflioO given on the Ifl of May)
A genteel three Itory brick House,
feet front, aiad 4c feet deep, with back buildings
and stables, at prrfent in the teuure of Major J ck
«ow. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
apfil 2. £
PROPOSAL,,
For Puhlijbing by Subscription,
E N QJJ I R Y
INTO THE
ORIGW OF E I'IbEMIC DISEASES.
THE Letters to Dr. Currie, which I puhliihed
tafl autumn, led me to an invelligation of
th« origin and phenomena of peftiluntial diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the profrcutioi, of the fubjeiSt, new fadts and
principles continually opened to my view, and fi
nally determined me to trace back the history of
such diseases as far as the records of history ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in Njcw-York, Ntw-Havea, Cam.
bridge and Boston, with a view to obtain all the
material fa.sh which can'illuftrate the fubj«<st,and
1 have nearly collected ill the materials for the
proposed work.
The faiSts e.lLileil will enable me to demon
strate that many of the common ideas refpe&ing
pestilential epidemics, are nnfounded or extreme
ly in correct ; and this in consequence of ir.edica!
writers considering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular 'coun
try ; rather thaa as connected with other epide
mics or other phenomena of nature in various
parts of the world. The fa<9s I have collected
lead to certain dedttiSions which are furprifingto
jnyfell, and whic-h will probably be new to many
others. Much light will h« thrown on this dark
and perplexing fubjeA, as well as on natural phi
lofffphy. j
The propofet}-vorlc wiil make a full sized o«5la- c
sro volume ; and execute* well on fine paper, can- ,
not be afforded at li:ls than two dollars, bound, ,
with the usual allowance to book fellers. As th« t
compilation will cost not only great laber.but con- c
Cderable expence, n-> more copies will be printed c
than tofnpplyfobfcrlbcrs. The hook will be rea- j,
dy for fuMcriber searly iu the coming summer, and t
the holders of propofalt will be good tnough to ,
retqrn them to No. 40, Pine-street, by the firflof |
May.
SoßSC«ifTio*s received by the book-fellers in j
New-York, Philadelphia, AlSany, New-Haveo, t
Hartford, New-London, Providence, Boston, Bal- f
tiatorc and Charlefto*. .
NOAH WEBSTER, jun. p
march 18.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 18,1798.
Thomas Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR. SALE,
At No. 5, Dock-itrcct,ncarfheDn.\vbridgc,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and colfec
caps and faucets
Nankeens, black fattins and taflities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and En>(li(b umbrellas,
Together 'with a general ajfortmenl of European
Goods— among which are
Seots thread in boxes
• 6d. Bd. iod. iid and 20<J.nail«
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanilh brown and white
e lead
Englilh fcythes42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
IT! barrcllsof kiln dryei Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-flreet,
No. 7, to be let, three {lorict high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
Jull Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of France,
And for sale By
Joseph Anthony £3* Co.
to bales Bourbon cotton of a fuptrior quality
150 bags do. coffee
14 calks do. Indigo
april 3 diot
just Received;
FROM FOR T- A U-PRINCE,
\ And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
> 110 lihds. Coffee
46 tierces do. x
100 barrels do.
100 bags do.
110 hogfheadsof Muscovado Sugar
9 80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molafies
4 bales of Cotton
1 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftrect.
march 11, § I
A Nurse Child Wanted.
ANY person who may want to put a child out,
may, hear of a place, by enquiring of Conrad
Baker, neaf the town house, in the Northern Li
berties. 3t april 12.
; PORT WINE,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter casks,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P. P. Schmidt,
master, from Oporto,
ALSO, ON HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Queens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales
Guns assorted in cases, Cutlasses, Swords, &c.
For Sale by
THOMAS to" JOHN KETLAND.
Walnut ftreet-wharf.
April ir- ict
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. 7 thy 1798.
rHE Contributors to the Pennliylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
eled twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
April 7 dtE
SILVER WATCHES.
Cafl) will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCHES, by applying im
mediately at No. T5 South Fifth street, between
Market and Chtfnot streets.
April 10. * 6t
Now Opening,
At Willia m M'L A ws Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Piilols, cure.it from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps. Swords, Cartou h B><xes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faieby W.Yuung, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. Dobfon, 4! South Second-flreet and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive :
By a Lady of Boflon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the furroundin); Profpeet—lnvocation
to the Riv'.r and Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fiilion dif'carded—Dedication to Wash
ington—The Aflion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbiansfrom Bunker's Hill—General Howe
The Memory of his Brother—Death of War- i
ren—Perfonificatipn of Fortune and Fame
Wafhing'on at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation, of th« Columbian i
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli- <
tical Hiilory of the several States—Their com- '
manding Officers—Siegs of Bofton—lts Suffer- 1
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the I <
Btitifh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha- "
raSer of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apofcrophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughcut the World.
march 30. 5 f
Law Book Store, I
No. 319, High-flreet.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors fhewn'him in his
efforts toeftablifh a Stor? for the sale of Law ji
Books only, bigs leave to inform the Gentlemen (I
of the Bar generally throughout the United States, f;
that in addition to his colle&ion now on hand, t]
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the poficflion of any one person for sale in Ameri- v
ca, expe&s daily very large supplies from Lon- d
don & Dublin, particularly from th. latter place, (1
havingchicfly confinedhisimportations to 'hofeedi- si
tion*, as being in his opinion equally correit with ii
the London copies, and well known to be infinite, ft
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law ci
Books, it will appear obvious to profeflianal pen- t<
tlemen the jrreat ad varies they havein purchasing if
from him, both as to feledion and price, «f which
the encouragement he has received for several years si
past, is the bed testimony he cm offer.
ir arch jo. , ]
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Chefnut Street.
, The Members of the Socie
ty of the Sons of GeorgC, c3abli(hed at Phila
dc»j>hia, for the advice and afliftance of Englifh
,c men indiftref*, —are requeued to attend an Anni
v.rfary Meeting of the said Society, at the City
I avern, on Monday, the 23d inft. at a o'clock
in the afternoon.
GEO. DAVIS, Secretary.
7 * t * Dinner to be on the table precisely at tour
o'clock. april 14
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge,
' PHE books for receiving Subscriptions will
1 be opened at the House of William pheaff,
as tlie corner of Marke: and Fifth Streets,
011 Monday the 16th influx, at j 0 O'clock,
a. M. and continue open till further notiee.
Richard Peters
' John Perot
Matthew M' Connell Commissioners
Godfrey Haga
IViiham Sheajf.
ipril 14 eats
' Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Steck, l»(l by the
capture -of the Britiih Packet, Countels of Lcicef
ter— viz.
No. i i7o»,containingsJhares"} l.Tued to Henry Ca
-3'03 5 do j zenove NephewScCo
731 I do. issued to Edwisrds
and Co
3*BB 5 do. siiTued (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington.
2928 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and Inglis.
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to ihew (aufe why new Certificates should not be
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 ec6w
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the brig Enterprize, capt. 'Lang
don, from Jamaica.
6ohog(headsof good SUGAR, Entitled to
6o,ocowt.of prime green COFFEE J drawback.
And For Sale by
WHARTON fc? LEWIS,
I No 11 .. South Front itrcef.
Who have like wife for sale,
A quantity of 4th p oef Jamaica Rum
Molasses, and
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil
april 14. coiot
FRESH TEAS.
MRj CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he
: has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 75 North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON,
YOUNG HYSON, ( Tc . s
HYSON-SKIN, t itAh '
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate terms.
Coffee, Chocolate and Loaf Sugar.
April 13. V m&ftf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fiflier, Samuel W. Fiftier, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignees.
James C. & Samuel IV, FiO:er.
No, 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
SALT PEI RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fijher,
No. 13, ArchStrect
march 31 4t.,wtf
For Sale,
By Elliston John Perot,
No 4T, North Water Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r casks, 4 years ohi atid fit for immediate uffc.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Coflfcs
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvals, No. 1, to o
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxe9 of China.
march 3 tu&f4W
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E. G. M. de LA ORANGE,
Walnut-street, No. 110,
BEING duly commifiioned and sworn in the a- '
bove capacity, offers to tranftate the French, '
Engiifh, Spanifl*, Portuguefeand Italian Langua
ges : he flatters himfelf that his former profeifion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to tranihte any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary inflruments.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
riy valuable additions having been made to this *
colIe&ioB, it confiftsnow of about 1500 volume*,, :
the best adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wish both to improve in the Language, and J
obtain ufeful inftro&ion and plcafnre. .
march 30. lawim 11
FOR SALE, ~ '
ALL that elegant three story Brick House, brick '
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south well corner of Fourth and Prune flrects,
containing in front on Fourth street 32 feet, and
in length on Prune flreet 98 Icet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the well fide «f Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth en Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 feet 08 the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of "
the fame. b<
And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the last tl
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth ft
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide ioafeet, thence running southward 11 feet 6 tl
inches, thence further westward u feet, thence ft
dill further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth llreet, with the so
commoft use of the said four feet alley leading in- p(
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purchafcr. ji
For terms, enquire of the fuhferiker, at his of- co
sice, No. 114 South Foirth flreet. | e
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER, H
nurch 31. , 3»wtf Hi
A Great Bargain.
j|' FOR SALE ON POTOMAC,
._ In State of Virginia, and county of Northum-
h ~ bsrland,
ck A s keautiTul a Scat as any on the River, con
-1 A taiuing between seven and eight hundred a
eres of Land, which commands a moll delight {ill
profpefl of Coan Rivet, Potomac and the Bay
about a third part of which is low grounds, fur
_ rounded with Fish, Oysters, and Wild Fowl, with
a good harbor, and as convenient for trade and in
'll f° rrna tioa as any on the lower part of the river,
and liesfo compact, that abrut two miles of fenc
ii ing w.uld inclose the whole from river to river.
®> The Hon. Walter jones, Esq. now in Congress,
«, lives vrithm a few miles of the place,—who will
do me the favor to describe it, and make my terms
known to any gentleman inclining to purchase.
HUDSON MUSE.
-s Virginia, Urbanna, march 15. air—co3t
to be Sold,
A Very Valuable Farm,
- SI TUATE on theNefhaminy creek, Buck'scoun
ty, containi* g about 148 acr. s, of which abeut3©
acre? are excellent wood-land ; the remainder mea
-- dow and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
ie state ; the whole under pott and rail fence, chi< fly
f- new last summer. On the prcmifes are a log-house
and barn. The situation for a country feat is per
haps one of the mod eligible in the vicinity of Phi
o ladeiphia, lying on the Nefharainy, with the ad
is vantage of a landing plsce within 100 yards of the
farm-houfc, and commanding a very excenfive view
>f of the surrounding country :it is about three quart
t. ers of a mile from the floating bridge, 17 3-4
1- miles from Philadelphia, ;f.d 2 1-2 miles from Brif
toi. For terms of sale and further information ap
n ply to Thomas Benger, Ffq. in Bristol, or
c WILLIAM WALN,
No. T44, South Second street. 1
April 7. 3tawtf
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
0 Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, tnd about five miles from the city;
the whole being under good fence, and ia ex
cellent order as pafturie ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Cresson, at his Office for the
sale of Real filiates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-fireet.
4th mo. ?d. tu&'f 111
The Annual Ele&ion
FOR Dire&ors and a Treasurer of the Library
Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
Library, in Fifth street, on M.nday, the 7th of
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
the Tieaforer will attend to receive the annual
1 payments.
r As there are several (hares on which finet are
due, the owners of them, or their repref«ntativcs,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeably to the laws of the company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
By ord'rof th« DireSors,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
April 7 v 3aw
Escapes.
TJROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
s D New-Jersey, and made their escape, berween
1 and 2 o'clock, this two Men, who
were conviiled of dealing—one of them calls him
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
j Lewis a grey-headed Man. about to years old, 5
feer<j inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
largehead; Hambleton is about 26 years old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inchesTigh, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the above described
. thieves, a fmallman, who calls himfelf MattheW
Morrifon, about 24 y;'ars old, .5 feet 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles whed talking, is
, a wheel-Wright by trade -IVhoev *r will secure
the thieves in any Gaol in Nev,*-JeTfey or Pennlyl
vania, shall b? entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old o .e, Fifteen for the.young one, and Twe
nty for Ma»thew Morrifon.
GEORGE BUR GIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, ma-rch rj. 24 —mt&fjw
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an infol
verit debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainll his liberation, pursuant to an adl of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an adi for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pasTed the 16th
day of January 179S —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
nrxt for the purpose aforefiiid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precindl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are request.d to take notice.
CHARLiiS ALLEN. :
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —iawjw
N Oil C E. i
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah 'hel- i
ly, of Oxted Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinster, or her afiigns,
for two thousand five hundred and fixty-tvvo dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of
the United States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London a
iw the year 1796. The fubferiher, the said Han- v
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, ior a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY. \
Feb. 23. iaw6w. I
City Commitlioner's Uliice, i
"January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION r-F THE CITIZENS.
following arrangement h made by the 11
JL said commissioners, for cleansing the ?
flrects, See. ''
Diflriil No. I. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry flreet; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks, j,
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry flreet, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fupermtendance «f William Moulder. v
3; From the foufh fide of Chefnut street to fj
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the in
fuperintendance of Jol'eph Claypoo.'e. cl
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the h;
south fide of Cedar flrtet, to be under the fu- cf
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. m
£fY When pumps are out of order south of f"
High-ftrcet, please apply to Thomas Dijry, at the el
corner of Sooth and Fifth-Hrscts, or Godfrey Geh- D
in Fourth, near Chcfnut-ftreet ; and north of
High ftrect, to Dixey and Dehavrn. in SalTafras
ftrect, bitween Sixth and Soventh-ftreus,
To be Sold by Au&ion, at the Cof
fee- House, at 6 o'clock, on the Ift May
i- next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the
Custom-House, payable to William Love,
a chair-maker, 150, North I'ront street, for 250
jl do'lars, dated the.3<-th June 1797, due the jd of
Aug. but negle&ed to be prrfented or protested
r - till the 18th August by the Bank of Pennfylva
-1 nia, tor which the Bmk will become liable, if a
jury independent of Banks can be found.
c- * Pri ' '3- *6t
V TO THE PUBLIC "
H IT appears evident, that the fur fort of Mr. William
ls Priefman's advertifmg my Note for falc at til Mer
cbants' Coffee house, M the fitjl of May next, it done
merely for tie furpofe of injuring my charaßer, —it re
mains only for me to convince the world, that /my intention,
to dijcharge the fame, are truly honorable and jufl. A-
Uut da y ! "ft" filing said note to Mr. Love, he callei
on me to Inoio if I could discount it : I anfviered I would
) do it the Saturday following— He not calling tit rue, as I
1- expelled, 1 called at his hcufe for the furpofe; linen he
0 informed me that it ivas in the poffefjion if M, . Wagner,
l- in Secondflreet, on -whom I called for the furpofe oftak
d mg it up, previous to leaving the city during the fever,
y who told me he knew nothing of the note ; I never learnt
fe where it ivas until my return to t'ue city, when a series of
> unparalleled misfortunes had tendered me incapable of
l- direbarging my jafl debts , I called on Mr. Priejlman, a,
1 well as my other creditors, and offered to pay them, by an
ie order for retJning a portion of my yearly falary,'until
" ""y wrc /«'</. convincing them that this was my only
t- resource, andproduced frotejled paper (which was, when
4 taken, deemed good) to thrice the amount of wv debts,
r- which was abandoned by Mr. Prirflmqn only,' to the un
>- feeling attack on my charaßcrJiyfubtifling „y note for fate.
Should any gentleman incline p rchaftitg my' note, be
may reft assured of my honejl dct, rmhatioo to the difcharer,
t ereof, b\> the ft off as I pyopofe here ; arid very pro
bably in a Jbort time, fbould I receive remittances which
are daily expelledftorn abroad, they will enable me amply
to discharge all the debt, due ,by
MICHAEL KRAFFT.
apnl 17. „ 3 ,
Imported in the ship America,
' and for sal*, by
G. G. SCHULTHESS,
3 At Mqflrs. Jos. Anthony (5 s Co s. Store,
e 3° bags heavy black Pepper
BookMuflm I 4 and 1-2 yard wide
Check Hhkfg. romalHhkfs.
Blue Percales and blue Socrotion
One bale bine Cloth 24 punj.
Vitepaleon Hhkfs, 18 nd 26 punj.
f One bale Betilhas—alfo,
; Four bbl«< Sago
f Eight logs Ebony
A f<;w hoards Sattinwood
1 a P ril 11 __ <foß
. Baikenridge—for l'ale
T T consists of 910 acres, almost all of which U
. A a fins rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
; Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
, into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
. afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one and;a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of i joo finsbearing engraft.
J ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsoifaid
) traa near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
( variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
FcreftTreos, that sdA to ths beauty and eonveni—
ence of the place. Its 1.» ation is about 18 miles
; from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
, from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield It
| is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ineafh, on delivery of the deeds. Pieafe'to cn
| quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
Np. 78, Chefnut -trcet.
February z. eodtf
A House and Lot in Dover"
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUNO, btuate on tht east CJ *
.LX. of the main (Ireet, running through the ton „
of Dover, in Kent county, in the Stat: of D; , a .
ware, about thirty, or'for-y yards below Ca ,i
Furbee'sTavtrn, containing in front on fait] ,f reet
thirty four feet, and extending in depth ca.li „ ar( j
twelve perches, together with die buildiogs t' ~r e.
011 created, wHich consist of a good brick T _ lol ,fJ
two flories high, well Gniihed, with two rj >mf 3 '
bout seventeen or eightsen (net square eaclr and a "
paflage eight or ten teet wide 0:1 the fir i 'fl nor .
three rooms with a pafTage.above, and go od gir'.
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of whic h is used"
asakitches; aback brick buildingwkb v ,vorooms
above and below about un or twelve ft t [ )y frur _
teen ; the tipper rooms of this building communU
cate above Hairs with the paflage of the house •
A brickfmoke house, and a good pun p 0 { watel !
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in cv ry refpeib as°c-j mfortable an
any in Dover, i, in a got, 1 r, tuation
and now occupied by John Freema) . as a tavern
with tbe sign of the Eagle. '
The terms will be reafjnable. I \pply toDan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover , „rto thefuii
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth-rtree t, Phila.lelnh:/
CADWALAUE/.i EVANS
n,;:r<rh tus4w '
Wanted,
An aflive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
and do the bufmefs of the kifchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need an.
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 .
§
Run away from the fubferiber
Oil she 14th inft. two indented Irifb Servant u,„'
Thomas M'Guire, about Ij years of a e e an,l e
feel: 8 inches high. rob-U, ftont, and well' made
fliort b';ck hair, remarkabl« for a frar on o-ie J
h» temples; he i, a forward, deceitful,
and unprincipled fellow, and Hccoved fr '
service jeffry Corbet, about .the " "J
height, but of a milder difpofitio,, a,,d more n"n.
dermake fliort brown ha,r ; th„V workin . app".
relwas blue cloth over jacket., lined with coarse
brown linen*check and-brown linen
yarn ?oek,ngs mixed twilled greyxloth tro'wfej
and ruffett leather hoes; they have other ctaerM«
which altogether gives tbem the appearand of f e f.
faring men but have been brought up to thefarm
ingbulmefs; no doubt will have forged parte, and
change their name, and apparel a, convenient and
have taken the pod road to Philarvlnh;, ,
more I will g.ve Fifty Dollar, for securing tb.m
so that I get them, and will pa V all tf c . • >
charges if brought home, or if fcparateH
Debars for Thomas, M d TwellX "ff /
ARTHUR jJRYAN
rH-dof Wye, TelhotCouut^h,.
fnlu
VOLUME XIII.By ycfterday's Mail. I
c
NEW.yORK, April 16. r
Latest news from Europe.
Yederday arrived the brig Ann and Mary, '
Captain Smith, in 34da£S from Cork. c
By thepolitenefsof a g of this city, '
we have been favoured « .th
v FLYN's HIBERNIAN CHRONICLE, f
To the Bth of March, 1
I-'rom which we have copied the following 1
articles : 1
LONDON, February ii, 12, 23, and 24. 1
FliOM TW: COURIER. <
The moll important intelligence is given in
the Pari* gazettes, from the Bth to the 18th '
iii/iaut, inclulive, which wer£ brought to us •
this morning by express.
The article which fird claims attention is
the following, relative to the seizure ofEn- 1
glifh merchandize at Hamburg, and the shut- '
ting up of that port againd the commerce of «
England : '
" The Senate of Hamburg did not hesitate
a moment to comply with all the demands
which Leonard bourdon was charged to make
in the name of the Directory.
" The presence of the emigrants being in- '
compatible with that of the Envoy of the
French Republic, in 24 hours after his arri- 1
val, notice was given to them, at the found of 1
trumpet, that they were to qyit immediately
the town, which till then had been, as it were,
their capital. 1
" All the Englifli merchandize was instant
ly seized (fequedrees,) the Englilh expelled, '
and this free port, for the firft time, was shut
agiinft all the veflels of these tyrants of the
sea.
" Citizen Legot, Consul General from the
French Republic at Hamburg has revived an 1
c'd law, which direits the Consul General '
of France in I.ower Saxony, to convoke, at
regular periods, jhe members of his nation 1
who (hould reside at Hamburg, to confer with
them 011 all fubjeifls that might their 1
country in consequence of which, on the 7th •
Pluviofe, (the 26th of January,) heconvoked '
a meeting of the French who were then in
the town of Hamburg, and read to them a ]
circular letter, addrefled by the Minister of '
Foreign Affairs to all the Agents diplomatic j '
and Confolaries of the French Republic the j •
14th of Nivofe lad. He addrefted them in a| 1
Ipeech marked by that patriotifrn and folem- 1
nity which could not fail to excite the mcft
lively interest. He dwelt particularly on this H
part of the letter of the Miuider for Foreign t ]
Affairs:—" It is nereflary that all parts of I '
the Frencli Republic lliould at this moment j '
enter into the war England." After
this speech, all the French who were present
determined to open three regiders ; one for 1
the loan for the expedition aaaind England ; i '
another for voluntary contribution ; and ;; 1
third to contain the names of those French- j
men who shall enter into- an engagement not |
to purchase any cloth or other article of En
glish manufacture until a peace fliall have been 1
concluded with that power. It was also de- :
tliey Ihould meet at lead four j 1
times a vear, to concert 011 the proper means ! j
of aiding the Great Nation. The Consul j
n.i'e a contribution of 300 livres, and signed [
?r ' ution not to make use of any article of
L ,ufh .iiannfaihire." ' j I
One of tiie belt informed of the Paris jour- j
nals contain the following letter from Ham
burg, dated the 27th of January : ! 1
" It darsd, tlrat in compliance with the |
demand of the French Republic, no more !
packet-boats will pass between London and
this town."
" Letters from Hambfirg fay, that no more
packets are to pair, between that town and
London, and that, since the arrival of Leonard
Bourdon, the emigrants jire ordered to quit 1
the place."
The Echo of the fame date fays,
" It appears certain that the Senate of |
Hamburg lias accededlo the demands of Leo- i
nard Bourdon, and tha 1 * 24 hours after his I
arrival, all the emigrants received orders to
leave the town and its terr:tory. The English
were driven (chafTes) from the town and the
Englifn merchandize seized."
The Journal des Campagnes contains the
fame article as the Moniteur and the Chro
-1 »iaue.
' FROM THE SUN.
A letter from Hamburg mentions that 110-
thing is confirmed of the reporti in circulation
rel\ 'ecting that city, except that the Senate
has replied to the demand of Leonard Bour
don 1 elative to the expuliion of the French e
jnigit nts, that several of these persons having
acquit -d the rights of citizens thare, could
not be driven from thence without an infrac
tion of the constitutional law of the (late.
The . ImpcriaPdeputation of the Congress
of Radlh 'dt, having, in a note which they de
livered t. > the French Plenipotentiaries/de
clared th» t they could not confcnt to the ses
sion of tin - left bank of the Rhine ; that the
indemnify ition of the Princes who had pof
felTions on the left bank wtre at the expence
ofthoCeon the right, and the secularization
of the Eleil orates ar, I B.flioprics, is impiac
tical'le j v conclude with praying that the
French Minifc 'ers would propbfe more reason
able bases fok r the peace * hich is to be con
cluded.
The French Plenipotentiaries replied in a |
note dated thei'9th of Jan. in which they pro- |
mile to tranfmil the note of the deputation to
the Direflory, h at observe that the Constitu
tion of the Empi re will not be altered by the
diminution of its territory. They infill upen
the Rhine being t he boundary of the Repub
lic, which they fa v is neceflary both for the
security of France iind the tranquility of Ger
many. •
011 the 31ft, the (Deputation of the Empire
delivered a (econd iiote to the French Mini
ster*. They express their fatisfattidn in learn-"
ing that their deliberations refpedling the
bo°undary of the Rhine, had been sent to tne
French Government which they hope will
acknowledge the importanceof their demands.
They, maintain, that the preliminaries ligned
at Leoban, are erttirelv in their favour, which
they infill ought to form the basis of the trea
ty of Peace. *
Relative to the threatened descent on this 1
country, the Monituer fays.
" It appears that it will be a genera! attack,
not partial ones, that will be attempted against
England. Generics Defaix, Kleber, and
Dufalga, are gone to make a partial survey of
the coalt ; thcyfet out with Buonaparte, who
will visit all the different places wl'.ch bor
der the channel and the ocean, and will trace
the plan of a descent with that superiority of
talents which has hitherto insured the luc
sefs of every thing which he has attempted.
•' A chain of cantonments has been cftab
liflied from Oflend to the extremity of the
boast of the ci-devant Dutch Flanders All
the pods have fignats fur cotrtmunication.
This measure is intended to prevent the in
troduflion ot English merchandize, which u
fed to take place by the Scheldt, conducted
by bodies of armed men."
Notwithflamling every thing that has been
said in the English newspapers on theauthori.
ly of Englilh fallors who had lately quittej
France, nothing till now had appeared in the t
French Journals on the fubjeit of the rafts, t
or any veflfels of a novet.conftruilion, except t
extra£ls from the London prints. The Chro
ivique, however, ot the 17th, fays— c
" Citizen Prinet, artist, has just submitted {
to the Diretlorj a plan for a floating camp, I
composed of vessels ofan ablolutely new con- I
llrutlion, and of which the solidity shall be <
such that it will be capable of refilling the ef
fects of the sea, and all the attacks of the e- 1
nemy. The author proposes to conflruil <
this camp of a fufficient size to contain 100,000 _ 1
men. A number of diflinguifhed artifls have 1
fcen this plan, and have deemed it worthy of J
fixing the attention of the government." -1
One of the papers dates, that nineteen-*, ef- |
fels from the Mediterranean have joined the
Spanish fleet at Cadiz.
One of the Demi-official Journals of the
nfhfays, " We can allure our readers, that
General Berthier entered Rome on the 10th
of February. On the 7th one division of his
armv was at Spoletto, and the other at Fo
ligno.
The mod important intelligence in the lad
Paris papers is an article in L'Echo, of the
20thinll. which dates that a MefTage was sent
by the Directory to the Council of Five Hun
dred, on the fitting of the 19th, announcing
that the republican troops had entered Rome
in the 10th ind. and had taken poffelTion of
the St. Angelo, and thecapitol.
Miiilfters, it is repi«ttd, have received ad
vice from France, through a very rcfpectable
channel, that a descent upon this country is
artually to be attempted, in various directi
ons, early in april, by an army of 300,000 men.
The anxiety of the public ref'pedting the
fate of Hamburgh is now completely done a
way, the third of the fix mails that were due
having arrived lad night. The principal ar- •
ticles-of intelligence which it brings have
been anticipated by the Paris Journals, as the
present packet left Cruxhaven so long ago as
the 6th inllant.
It appears that the French, without wait
ing the result of the negociations at Radadt,
are poflefling themselves of whatever places
they think necelTary, on the Banks of the
Rhine*. They have taken poireffion of one of
the forts of the Rhine after a fevcre conted,
in which they lod 3000 men. The besieged
had 5000 privates taken prisoners. They were
i alio preparing to take polfellion of Ehrenbreit
dein which was to have been summoned on
i the 30th ult.
A letter from Vienna, dated the 27th tilt,
-•arcntiojis that an Aullrian Prince is to be ap
| pointed Governor of Venice. A flotilla will
j immediately be fitted out in tha harbour of
that city.
March i—2.
It appears that the Spanish fleet has eluded
the vigilance of that under the command of
earl St. Vincent, and has failed out of the har
bour of Cadiz.
I The following letter reached 11s this morn.
Portsmouth, February 18.
" This day arrived his majedy's frigate A
rethufa, of 40 guns, Capt. Wollcy, from the
flefet under the command of Earl St. Vincent,
giving an account of the Spanish grand fleet,
confiding of 16 fail of the line and 6 frigates,
having failed from Cadiz on the night of the
6th ind. supposed for Bred, and that they
had escaped the fleet commanded by admiral
1 lord St. Vincent. If they are bound to Bred
it is feared they will form a jitnftion with the
French fleet, as we have only 3 fail of the line
! cruing off Bred, who, it is not improbable,
: may unfortunately fall into their hands, and,
; at any rate cannot attempt to refid their going
i into the port of Bred. A reinforcement wilt
undoubtedly be ordered to sea,
FROM THE SUN.
Captain Wol.tey, of the Arethufa frigate,
which came into Plymouth from a cruifie on
I Monday lad, arrived'yederday at-the Admi
| ralty office. He brings intelligence of his
j having fallen in with a neutral velTel, the maf
-1 terof which informed him that the Spanish
I fleet, confiding of 25 (hips of the line, were
lat sea. The maderof the neutral vellel adds,
that Lord St. Vincent's fleet was likewifeout,
and that the Englilh frigates were in fight of
the Spanish Ihips.
The Portsmouth letter varies in its date
ment from the account received in town yes
terday—but we are inclined to believe that
the latter is the most correfl.
The Direftory have published an arret to
the following eftect :
1 " As the different intereds implicated in
the execution of the articles of the Treaty of
Campo Formio, and every other objetl con
nected with the present negotiation^between
; the French Republic and the German Em
pire are t» be regulated at Radadt, the Exe
cutive Diredtorf resolve, that all Commillio
ners, Envoys, or Agents, of any description,
from the PrinceS, Towns, and Stata of Ger
many, having an interell in the negociation of
Radadt, and coming into France upon that
business, shall not be received.-
: " That the AmbalTadors and French Min
isters in foreign countries shall refufe pasT
; ports to all persons who fay they are appoint
t cd to treat with the French government upon
the part of any of the powers intereded in the
: negociation opened at Radadt. That all so
. reign Envoys who are not accredited to the
French Government, and not acknowledged
by it, or who have not an express permiflion
i ! to remain in Paris, shall leave it in three days,
- | and the territory of the Republic in 6 days af
-3 ter. That those who have communications
- to make to the French government, relative
e to the a (lairs which come under the confider
a ation of the Congress at Radadt, may write
- either direflly to the Executive Diretlory, or
e to the Miniderfor Foreign Affairs."
I.etters from Vienna date, that his Imperi
al Majedy has determined to fend neither
1: AmbaflTadors nor Ministers to the free States
of Italy; there will be only simple Residents
- from the Imperial Cabinet in these countries,
e The Cisalpine Republic wilt ofcourfe decline
e fending an Amball'ador to Vienna, as was once
I intended.
A letter from Hamburg, dated February 6,
d received at Hull, fays—" There is noproba
h bility of any power whatever prohibiting the
- importation at our port ; our situation, in
many refpecls, w ill not allow i:. The report
s in the newspapers in your country refpeiling
such and other matters of humility in our
c, neighbourhood are ridiculous, and it is fur-
It priling how they can be credited,
id Margate, February 21.
>f Five persons have keen apprehended here
10 this morning by two of the Bow-dreet officers,
r- upon suspicion of carrying on a treasonable
:e correspondence with the French government,
sf The most material paper yet discovered, is an
:- address from the Secret Committee in fre
land, to the Frencli Directory, soliciting them
)- immediately to coine over, and dating in very
ic llrong terms, the exhaufted-relourccs, failure
.11 of forced contributions, universal difaffeilion
n. and that millions would joyfully join the He
ro*of Italy.
1 The chief of them diles himfelf Colonel
rd Morris; three others appear his companions j
and the other a lad, their servant.
:n The officers have just fat oft with them un
1. dcr a guard.
: d They were yeflerday at Whitcllable, where
they aflually agreid with the mafler of a boat 1
to carry them over for 130 guineas, aftd to I
deposit 300 more as a security for his velfel.
This being mentioned to the officers of the
cu floras, he searched a great quantity of bag
gage belonging to theiji, which making them
suspicious, they set off for this place, when
he immediately sent off a messenger to inform
our officef of it.
The Bow-street officers who had been in
queftof them, arrived here this morning, and
when they apprehended them, no part of their'
baggage, not even their great coats, would
they acknowledge to belong to them.
[ By the letters from Constantinople which
came over in the last mail, it appears that the
Porte is making uncommon preparations for
war, with an intent, as is supposed, to repel
any attack from the French. Apichepelago
are required to fend money or sailors, not ac
cording to the proportion observed in all for
mer wars, but the double of what has evej
been required of them. To the Capt. Pacha,
who is a great favorite of the Sultan's, has
geen given a command against the rebel Pa
chas of Romelia. He is suspeCted of being a
strong Jacobin. The Divan,as he isfo much
in favour of the Sultan, have not dared to
propose cutting him off, but have removed
him in this manner. TheTurkifh fleet is be
coming very refpeftahle, having been aug
mented, by several new ships, among which
are three-deckers, by Mr. Lebruu, a famous
(hip-builder.
The French are very busy in Greece, in
preaching revolutionary doctrines to the in
habitants, who, impatient of theTurkifii ty
ranny, hear with rapture all proposals to
emancipate them, and as eagerly embrace the
French caufeas they did the Ruflian on other
occasionS;
The French Ambassador, M. Dubayet,
lately died at Constantinople. His burial is
the (abject of conversation now among the
Turks as well as Christians. The coffin was
covered with two flags, and carried by officers,
four boys fnpported the ends of the flhgs.—
' He was buried in the garden of the Palace,
without any religious ceremony, except that
the French sung one of their songs. When
the coffin was let down, each Republican
threw in a handful of earth. It concluded
by planting cypress trees in the grave.
PARIS, February 20.
An article from Raftadt, of the sth instant,
informs us, that the obstinacy with which the
French Plenipotentiaries infill u-pon their o
vemires to the Left Bank of the Rhine, has
greatly aifconcerted the Envoys of the Em
pire, These deliberated much, without dis
covering any effectual means of escaping the
difficulties in which they were entangled. It
is said they finilhed by ordering that the pa
pers of the Negociation should be sent to the
Diet at Ratifbon, and that themembers should
be prepared to vote, in one of their next (it
tings, on the qu'eftion submitted toihem.
Letters from Vevay of the 16th inft. state,
that the Oligarchs of Berne have taken pof
felfionof. Arran with their troops : the Con
tingent of Zurich, however, refufed to join in
the expedition. General Menard and Gene
rol Schomberg immediately entered the terri
tory of Berne, the firft by the way of the Pays
de Vaud ; the fecend by fide of Eguel.
The Pays de Vaud has adopted the consti
tution (ent from Paris to the canton of Bade by
citizen. Ochs.
Buonaparte is this moment at Dunkirk.
One of the objects of his jourgey to that place,
is to fee experiments performed by the gun
boats of a new construCtion which are intend
ed to be employed in the expedition against
England.
It Is spoken of as a thing certain that M
d'Aranjo will be brought to trial ; but it is
not said before what Tribunal.
The inhabitants of the city of Bienne have
unanitnoufly voted their union with France.
Yesterday letters were received, Hating
Buonaparte to have been seen at Calais.—To
day we hear that he was seen on the road,
looking at his carriage, which had been de
layed bv some accident that rendered it ne
cessary to be repaired. We know ourselves,
that wagers have been confidently laid that
Buonaparte is at this moment at his lodgings
in the Rue de la ViCtoire.
LONDON, February 17.
Letters by yesterday's mail from Lisbon, da
ted the ultimo, are silent respeCting the
treaty of peace reported, in letters from Paris,
to have been concluded between that Court
and the French republic.
There was a French National corvette, of
12 guns, brought into Lisbon some days pre
vious to the-failing of the Prince of Wales,
taken by a Portuguese frigate, after a fliort
aflion. The French captain declared, after
he had (truck, and was brought on board the
Portuguese frigate, that he never would have
struck to hi.n, but he really thought, as did
all his officers, that it was an English Hoop of
war. 1 ,
A letter received from a refpeclable house |
in Leith, dated the 13th instant, fays, " An
order has been issued at North Bergen, and at
the other ports in Norway, from the French
Directory, ordering all the British vessels ly
ing captured to be entirely ftript to the hull,
and set on fire, allowing 60 livres per ton to
the captors for each ship destroyed.
On Wednesday last, Sir James Marriott,
Knt. Judge of the Admiralty Court, made
his report to his Majesty of George Jay, con
victed at the Admiralty Session held at the
Old Bailey, on the nth of December lass, for
aiding and assisting his Majesty's enemies on
board a Frertch privateer, when his Majelty
was pleased to order the law to take its course,
and the Lords of the Admiralty have ordered
■ the execution at the usual place (Execution
1 Dock) on Mondav the sth of March.
VOLUNTARY SUBSCRIPTIONS.
The total amount of the fubferiptions paid
at the Bank and Royal Exchange, was yester
day 7 30,0001.
Letters from Edinburgh received yesterday,
state that ths amount of the contributions in
that city at 31,000!.
Lord Somerville's fubfeription at the' Bank
1 is so highly creditable to hint that we have
tranferibed it f rom the books verbatim.
; " Lord Somerville gives annually, until
- the end of the war, the fifth of his clear in
come, in full confidence that when hich a pe
riod (ball arrive, the people ot England will
fee the good policy of having the fifth of all
: ascertained income to the relief of the afTeffed
, and other taxes, partial in their operation, be
; caufethey touch not the niggard or the difaf
fefted."
j February 19.
Preparations are now making, we under
-1 (land, in this country, for a defeent, or rather
y various descents, on the French and Dutch
; coasts. Those parts where the Republicans
1 have collected, and are construCting vessels for
- the threatened descent on England, are, it ,is
said, to be the firft objefts ot attack.
1 The command of the squadron destined for
; this service, is, we are informed, to be given
to Admiral Horatio Nelson, under whose or
- dcp> a large military force is also to aCt.
, February 20.
e Yesterday, in'the House of Lords, the Duke
of Bedford moved for an humble addr«fs to ]
liis Majelty, praying hijn todifmifs his present i
Ministers from the situation which they hold i
under the Crown —Agreed to : and it was j
ordered, that the House befuinmoned on the
i ith Marcl).
The dispatches received by the Lisbon mail,
wliich arrived oh Friday, state—that the Ex
ecutive Directory has made a formal demand
of the Court of Spain for permiflion to inarch
50,000 troops through' that country for the
attack on Portugal, which demand the weak
Cabinet of Madrid has complied with, altho'
the consequences are so obvious.
The Council of Madrid did not agree to
grant the * iflage required until after repeated
deliberations during four days. One party of
the Council was of opinion that there waslefs
danger in holtilities, which the Directory
threatened in cafe of refufat", than in acceding
to the demand of marching Republican troops
through the country. But the other party
having the greatelt preponderance, the mea
sure was carried. Time will /hew its conse
quences.
February 21.
Vice-Admiral Sir Charles "Jhompfon Jail
ed again on Sunday front Torbay with tlie
Heet under his command. He came in .mere
ly on account of a very heavy gale of wind at
S W.
We have authority to state, in the molt di
rect terms, that the paragraphs which have
lately appeared in several of the morning pa
pers, dating that a difference of opinion exists
between the Lord Lieutenant and Lord Chan
cellor of Ireland, are totally void of founda
tion.
Tlie gun-boats are all ordered to be fittsd f
for immediate service, and divided into three i
divisions; tliofe in the Downs to be com- j
manded by capt. Bowen, of his m ijefty's (hip (
Argo; those as Portsmouth, by capt. IJrif- j
bane ; and thofeat Plymouth, by capt. Raber, :
of the Champion frigate.
The Board of Admiralty have it in con
templation to propose to Parliament to ereCl
afuperb Monument in St. Paul's Cathedral,
to the memory of the gallant captain Burgcs,
who fell in the aflion of the nth of October,
while commanding his majesty's (hip the Ar
dent.
Yesterday several mercantile hotvfes received
letters from Lisbon, via by a pri
vate snip. Those letters (late, in general terms,
that the Portuguese in the capital are very
rtnich alarmed at the march of the French
troops through Spain, to attack Portugal, in
two divifiops. The Portuguese minilter is
taking the mod vigorous measures to make
them repent their rashness. There are now
eighty thousand, as fine troops as any in Eu
rope, and the great body of the people are to
raise enmaffe to preserve their property against
those marauders, who firft promise protection,
but finirti with plunder and deftruCtion.
The Amelia frigate is now lying in Ply
mouth Sound, between two feventy-four's,
as a guard. It appears, that lately (he was
at anchor for day and night near the mouth of
Brest harbour, almost within gun-(hot of the
forts, and constantly, during that time, rowed
guard, so as to prevent (urprife : it happened
that a sailor, in irons, reported to the Captain,
in the mean while, that the crew formed the
resolution of murdering all the Officers and
carrying the (hip into the midst of the French
fleet ; early in the morning all the officers
came on deck doubly armed ; the marines
were then drawn out, and loaded their pieces
with ball cartridge—on this the captain of the
(hip observed to the detachment that a mo(t
alarming mutiny existed on board, and that, if
it refufed doing its duty, he and his brother
officers, being well armed, would join in put
ting as many of them to death as poflible ; as
to iheir own lives, they did not value them
at all. Immediately afterward the (hip's com
pany were called up, and took their posts for-,
ward, when the captainaddre(Ted them spirit
edly, at the fame time ordering the marines to
present, and (fating, that unless within a given
number of minutes, they gave up the ling
leaders, he would order the whole detachment
to pour a volley in amongfl them; this had
the desired effect, and the men now in irons
were given up. *
Captain Herbert, to whose resolution and
gallantry the quelling of the mutiny on board
the Amelia frigate is entirely owing, has been
one of the molt fortunate and fuccefsful offi
cers in the service, having in the courfeof the
present war realised near 20,0001. of prize
money.
The late mutineers 011 board the Amelia
frigate, belonged to the Saturn in the mutiny
last year, and carried this diabolical f'pirit with
them, which they by degrees diffufed through
all the-failors of the ship.
A man yesterday went to the war-office to
lay an information against a person in the city,
for having in his poffeftion 2000 instruments
called cats. —He was referred to the Duke of
Portland's office.
Came in the French brigartrne Branch
d'Olive, laden with wine, brandy, and flour,
bound from Bordeaux to Brest; the was taken
the 7th jnff. iathe night, by his majesty's ship
Amelia, of 44 guns, capt. Herbert ; (lie failed
seven days since from Bordeaux, in company
with 32 fail, all laden with provifinos, &c. for
Brest, and when the Amelia fell in with the
fleet they all dispersed, 16 of them put into
different creeks along Iboce, marfy others are
supposed to have-been captured by the Ame
lia, and may be hourly expected : the above
vessel was formerly the blive Branch of Li
verpool, and lately captured by the French.
DUBLIN, Feb. 10.
It is reported that the ruling powers of the
country, having found all experiments under
the system of coercion and espionage not only
ineffectual for the pijrpofes deligned, but
hourly productive of the contrary effects, have
at length resolved on lenient measures, which
..are to commence with a general goal delivery
of all the persons now confined in the dif
ferent goals throughout the kingdom under
charge of being United Iriflimen, oncondition
of their taking the oath of allegiance, and
giving security be of the peace for seven
years.
The fubferiptionsat the Bank of England
on Saturday last were very conliderable, and
at the close of the day the aggregate amount
exceeded 800,0001.
R ASTADT, January 19.
The molt perfect harmony appears to pre
vail between'Aullria, PrufJia, and France, a
bout the changes preparing to take place in
regard to the Empire ; it is presumed every
thing will be arranged at the expence of the
Ecclefisftical Princes. The new and full
powers given by the Diet of Ratifbonne, are
dated nth January.
MARSEILLES,
The last news from Italy informs the French
■ army had already advanced in two Columns,
1 the oneat Talontino,and theother at Panu
• gia, and planted the tree of liberty in the lat
ter place.
BOURDEAUX, Feb. 9.
: It appears certain that an independent
Republican State will be formed on the ter
ritory of the Eccelfiaftical States. Thus the
world will once more be gratified with a new
Roman Republic.
CORK, March 8.
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS
DEFENCE OF THE COUNTRY.
Cork, Feb. 23, >798.
At a numerous and respectable meeting of
the merchants, bankers, traders, and
other inhabitants of Cork, convened in
the City Tholfel, in consequence of
public notice from Robert Hardiag and
John Tobart, jun. Efqrs. High She
riffs, the following resolutions having
been propofedby John Anderfon, Esq.
and seconded by Richard Lane, Esq.
were unanimously agreed to :
I. That at a moment wher, war isobfli
nately persisted in, by an iafulting and fe
rocious enemy, for the avowed purpofeof
destroying, not only the conftiturion, the
religious and civil rights, but also the na
tional independence of these kingdoms,
it behoves eveiy true friend to Ireland to
come forward with all his zeal and eneigy,
to .defeat the hostile designs of so inve
terate a foe.
11. That books be immediately opened
to receive fubfciipiionsfor voluntary con
tribu'ions, in dofince of the country, at
this critical and alarming period. To be
paid by quarterly instalments; the firfk
payment to be made on the 25th of March
; next.
111. That every exertion be made to
render those fubfci iptions as productive as
pofiible, being fully convinced that no- «
thing tend more than the general suc
cess of such a meafufe, to defeat the pro
jects of the enemy, to maintain public
orcdit, and to accelerate the return of
peace, upon fife and honorable terms.
IV. That the gentlemen who requelled
the High Sheriffs to call this meeting, to
gether with those now named, vix.
The Mayor,
High Sheriffs,
The Bishop of Cork,
Dcaii St. Lawrence,
- The Right Rev. Di. Moylan,
And Collector Shaw (who was ap'*
pointed Treasurer),
Be appointed to carry those
refolulions into effect; (nine to be a quo-,
rum) and the said committee be empower
ed to take such mealures as may appear to
them best calculated to promote the com
plete success of voluntary contribution*
for the defence of the country.
The Sheriff having quilted the chair,
and John Pedder, Esq. being called there
to,
Resolved, That the thanks of this'meet
ing be, and arehereby given to the High
Sheriffs of the city, for their proper con
due.* in the- chair.
The committee having adjourned to the
council chamber, and having elected John
Anderfon, Esq. their chairman,
Refolved,That attendance shall be given
and books kept open in the council cham
ber, from 1a till 3 o'clock, on Saturday
Monday, Tuefdav and Wednesday next,
toefvei reerom their fellow citizens such,
sums as they fhail be inclined to contri
bute. Signed by order,
WILLIAM PHILIPS,
Secretary.
The committee appointed to carry the
above resolutions into effect, feel it their
duty to call the attention of their fellow
citizens to the dangers which just now
threaten the countty, and to the certain
good effects which must result from a
spirited and unanimcfus exertion in its de
fence.
A desperate enemy rendered formidable
by its ferocityavid enthusiasm—aster hav
ing violated every obligation moral and
civil at home—-after having trampled up
on the law of nation, and even of civili
zed warfare abroad, is now promi.fed the
plunder—the uncontrouled, and unlimi
ted plunder of this kingdom, as the re
ward itstreachery, blasphemy and barba
rity, All reasonable overtures forpeace
are rejetted with the insolence of Brava
does who have nothing to lose, but every
thing to obtain by so unequal a confiift.
Can it be credited that fu'ch an enemy is
invited to our shores. —Can any one be
lieve that their hopes of affiflance from I
rishmen., would be eventually realized.--
Let the magnanimity with which persons
of every description flep forward on the
present occasion wipe away so foul an as
persion. The question is not now for
power, but for exillence on our part.
Let 110 man therefore be so {illy as to con
ned the pretent measures with the idle
theories of the day; or to make it a politi
cal question, whether he shall reftft affaf
ftnation and. plunder or submit to the
yrfke of a foreign and o&tfageous Ban
ditti.
.there may be, with intentions
. the most laudible, whofc incomes being
[ circumfcnbed, will be discouraged frotn
' uniting in a voluntary contribution, un
der an idea—That the sums they are ena
bled to offer are too trifling to be of
| service for a purpose oif such magnitude
| and extent.—To such men the committee
declares that the induflrious tridclman,
[ whose sixpenny contribution bears a just
[ proportion to his meansjis as meritorious a
iubfdriber, as the wealthy contributor of
thoulands ; in such a cafe, the intention
marks the giver, and not the magnitude
of th 6 gift.—And here the committee in
treat every delcription of their fellow ci
( tizensto consider that all are equallvcon
, cerned in the de/ence of that which as
. fords them the means of existence. The
1 peasant would lament the loss of his
; homely repafl, with as bitter concern as
the peer would his splendid, decorated
board. Both are equally called upon—
for both are so Far equally interested.
» ~
April 14.
We observe in the Jrifli Papers, that Earl
Moira (more known as Lord Rawdon) had
vilited Ireland ; and Vias taking part in the
I , debates of the Irish Parliament (by virtue ofhis double Peerage) on the fubjeft of the di
visions in that country.
The molt important articles of intelligence
by the arrival from Cork,are those from Ham
burg. The accounts of the Spanish fleet be
ing out, mull be the fame as we have before
rioticed.
Captain Smith informs us, that as he was
coming out of the cove of Cork on the nth
of March, a number ot American veirels were
coming in for convoy,
Our late European prints are crouded with
lifts of voluntary, contributions to carry on
defenfive measures against the French.
It appears from a late peep into the harbor
of Cadiz, the force there was 26 fail of the
line, 10 frigates, and 20 (hips of different
rates. All the merchantmen laid up, fails
unbent, yards and top-masts (truck.
On the 9th of Feb. was murdered, at Ca
ry's Lodge, Cork-county, Ireland, Richard
St. George Marfergh St. George, and Jas
per Uniack, Efqrs. The murderers were
secured.
The French privateer De Gay Trouin of
36 guns, and 170 men, was captured off Cape
Clear by the B. lhip Shannon, and carried
into the Cork-Cove, previous to Captain
Smith's failing.
The (h:p Port-Mar)', Packwood, arrived
at Belfalt from this port in 2S days—and the
brig Peggy Watson, at Cork, in 24 days.
The (loop Pilgrim from Charlelton to this
port, as (hore between the two Egg harbors.
Yesterday failed from this port the Britifli
packer, under convov of the Thifbe frigate.
We are informed that on Saturday the 20th
ultimo, a large Schooner, commanded by Cap
tion John Chadwick, was driven on (hore to
the weltward of Cape Hatteras, and the Cap-
Main and all the crew loft. This velTel was
one of a number in company bound to N.
Carolina. Several other velTels are on (hore
on that coast.
Several late attempts have been made to set
fire «to the city of Charleston.
A ne-w mode of raijirtg Money. '
On Saturday, a gen'eelly drelfed lad about
14 years of ajje, went through the neighbour
hood of tlus office, and, in the name of dif
ferent people, asked the loan of 5 and lodol
lars To our knowledge he nearly accom
pli (hed his deligns in several places. The
general publication of thig article, may pre
vent injury to the citizens, and save this
promising youth from farther exposi
tion.
CONG R £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, April ii.
. ( Concluded from yejlerday's Gazette.)
Mr. J. Williams was against discharging
the committee of the whole, and he thought
if the psentleman just fat down would review
his arguments, he would be so to. He com
plained that the money which had been ap
propriated was not expended. Why, if the
money was fpecifically appropriated, it would
not be expended,|if the officers thought it un
neccllary. The gentleman from N. Carolina,
who was opposed to all fortifications, he
should not notice ; the observations of his
colleague as to 3 or 400 miles of coat being
unprotected, would be an argument for in
creasing the amount of the appropriation. He
was forty to hear the gentleman just far down
complaining of a certain state for not having
paid her debts and made cession of the jurif
rlittion of her fortifications, as he said Penn
fylvaniahad done. But he-alked whether the
gentleman could compare the importance of
one fcile with t,hat of the other i As to pay
ing ot debt, he hoped Pennsylvania would
pay her q\\ n, before her representatives call
ed upon others to pay theirs.
Mr. Macon spoke again in favour of the
motion, and an to 'lie inutility ot the fortifi
cations at New-York.
Mr. Bryan was in favour of the motion*
and spoke of the importance of fortifying O
cracock. \
Air. Rutl! DGF. was happy to observe, that
gentlemen who hid, heretofore, huen avefSTe to
fortifying t! ejc untr'y. were now pvptty gene
rally imprefied with the propriety of the mea
sure ; he had long Seen in favor of it, and be
lieving that the critical state of our afTairs re
quited that measures of defence should be imme
dia'ely gont into, he would vote against dif
charg:i< g the committee of the whole. He
deemed it of imp' r'tanre that this hufinefs should
be afled upon with promptitudy, which could
not be the ca!e if appropriations were to be
made in th way proposed by the gen
tleman from Pennfyl*ania ; the house could not
be fuppoled to pofTefs the neceflary information
relpedling the molt pradticable and best points
of defence upon our coast, Snd unTefe foine one
gentleman in every delegation was. an engineer
it would be impollible for the members, from
the different slates, to agree which would be the
»noft proper fituatiotu, in their refpeiilive (tales,
for foitificationi : it certainly would be wife
and proper to leave this matter with the Presi
dent, who wilt employ engineers to visit the dif
ferent parts of our extensive coast, and report
immediately the molt proper places to be forti
fied, accompanied with estimates of the expence.
He was not fnrprized that his Irien i from North
Carolina should have his apprehensions strongly
excited by the very unprotected state of the coast
of his slate, hut as he was informed a floating
defence was contemplated, for that part of the
country, he trufled his uneifipefs would be re
moved! the committee, in their estimate ot the
places to be fortified, had not noticed North
Carolina, because they supposed that a moving
defence would be a better defence for its coalt
than fortifications j if, however, gantlemen from
that part of the Union thought differently,
there would be no difficulty in getting provision
made for fortifications. In the eft imate given
in by the committee there is a surplus of 6c,000
dollars, out of which provision may be made tor
erecting forts in North-Carolina, and the Pre
sident (if this hufinefs (hall be left to l.im) will
Certainly do so if the representatives of that
state fay it is neceflary. Mr. R. observed that,
in the course of this debate, the secretary cf war
had Ufen much b!«med, for not having expend
ed a!l the money appropriated at the last feflion ;
he believed this fubje& was not propefly before
thecommittee; if it washe was persuaded there
would be no difficulty in juflifyi ig the condudt
•f the secretary at war 1 he would, however,
observe, that it had in the last feflion of Con
gress been (fated to the house that the fortifica
tions in fi'me parts of the Uni >n were in ru
ins, and in others mouldering to decay, for
want of men to take care of the»n, yet none had
been provided ; and, in hit opinion, it would
hive been an absurdity to have expended lirge
sum« of money in building forts, when we bad
i.ot 1 fufficient number of artillerifis for garri
soning those in exiftrnce.
Mr.,G»ovi related his solicitude for the
coast of North Carolina.
Mr. Thatcher did not regret that the
money appropriated at the lass leflion was not
expended ; he should be glad to find at the
next feflion that there had been no occasion to
exp«nd the money now appropriated. He
was unwilling to recommit the bitl for the
purpose mentioned. There were ports iu
Massachusetts which he could name, which
required tortertion, at leafVas much as those
of North Carolina ; but he was willing to
leave the expenditure of the money* to. the
judgment of the President.
The morion for discharging the committee
of the whole was put and negatived.
The lioufe then resolved itfelf into a com-
I mittee of the whole on this bill ; when
Mr. Blount mo'-ed to amend the firft ]
feflion by inserting all the places which had
been inserted in the original law. ,
This motion was advocated by MefTrs.
Blount, Gallatin, Milledge, and M'Dowell
and opposed by Melfrs Sewall, Gordon,
Pinckney, Dayton and Brooks. It was nega
tived, without a division.
si the course of the observations on this a
mendment, it was said to be improper for
members to .be pointing out the mod weak
and vulnerable parts of the coast, at a time
when we have every reason to expeif a war. 1
In answer to this, Mr. Blount said, that it i
was well known that all parts of our coast are i
weak ; and that no secret of this kind Could
be revealed to France, as a survey of our.coast |
had been made by citizens of that country ,
who were prebably now in France.
Mr. Sewall moved to fill up the blank in 1
the bill with 200,000 dollars. 1
Mr. S. Smith thought, fipce the debate
which had taken place, that 250,000 dollars
would be neceflary, as several places had
been mentioned, had not been coufi
dered by the committee.
Afterfome observations in favourof 250,000
by Mr. Harper and Mr. S. Smith, andagainft
it by Mcffrs. Sewall and Macon, the question
on the largest sum was carried, there being 50
members in favourof it.
Mr. Blount moved to insert three ports
in North Carolina by name. The motion
was negatived, there being only 13 votes in
favour of it.
The bill being gUne through, the commit
tee rose, and th* house entered upon the con
sideration of the bill; when
Mr. Gallatin made a motion similar to the
firft made by Mr. Blount in committee of the
whole, for enumerating the places at which
the money appropriated should be expended,
leaving the President the power of expending
such funis at other places as he (hould think
proper,
After some debate, of no great importance,
the queltion was taken by Yeas and Nays as
follow :
YEAS.
MelTrs'. Baldwin, MelTrs. Jones,
Bard, Locke,
Blount, Lyon, v
Bryan, Macon,
Burgess, M'Clenachan,
Cabeil, * M'Dowell,
T. Claiborne, Milledge,
W.Claiborne, Nicholas,
Clay, Skinner,
Dawfon, Sprigg,
Findley, Stanford,
Fowler, Sumpter,
Gallatin, A. Trigg,
Gregg, J-Trigg,
Grove, R. Williams,
Havens, 32.
Holmes,
NAYS.
MelTrs. Allen, Mefirs. Hofmer,
Baer, Imlay,
1 Bartlett, Livingfton,
Bayard, Lyman,
Brookes, Macf.ir,
Bullock, Matthews,
Champlin, Morris,
Chapman, Otis,
Cochran, Pinckney,
Coit, Reed,
Craik, Rutledge,
Dana, Schureman,
Davis, Sewall,
Dennis, Shepard,
Dent, Sinnickfon^
Evans, S. Smith,
A. Foster, W.Smith,
D. Foster, Sprague,
N. Freeman, Thatcher,
Glen, Thomfas,
Goodrich, Tillinghaft,
Gordon, Van Allen,
Grifwold, VanCortlandt
Hanna, Varnum,
Harper, Wadfwortb,
Harrifon, J. Williams,
Hartley, 54.
Hindman,
The bill was then ordered to be engrofted
fora third reading to morrow. Adjourned.
LANDING,
From on board the ship Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Sub-criber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 csnifters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
apnl 17- §
The Subscribers,
Are landing at Willing's wharf, from onboard
of the (hip Elizabeth, Captain Pealtee, from Ba
tavia,
400,000 lbs. of best Java Coffee,
191 Caniftersof Sugar
A few tons of Sapan wood
FOR SALE ET
Philips, Cramond & Co \
april 16 iw (
• NOW LANDING, ;
dromon boatd the fchr. Charlotte from Boston, (
30 chelts Bohea )
30 do. Hyson > TEAS
36 do Souchongj
And from on board the si hooner Favourite from
Ri hmoiid ( Vir.)
648 b',U:r U perfin e ) F R y
66 do. fine 5
And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale or realo" bit ter-'is. by
GEORGE PLUMSTED, ;
No. 166, homli Front Iheet. r
april 3 * 3a*tw
—— ———
Grand Ball, t
1 HE LAST THIS SEASON, J C
At Ricketts's tifcu*, on Thurlday next, igrh inft. ' f
underihe di e£ti<>n of Mr. Byrne. The Ladies' I f
and Gentlemen who intend honouring him with their |
company are tfqucfted io fend for Tickets as easfry as j [
poflible Gcniiemen's one dollar each 10 be had 1
O'Klleis't Hotel, and L dies* of Mr & Mrs. By rne, ; r
No in, South Secund, corner of Dock Street. i
april 16 4t
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, CHIINU 1 STREET, *
11 Casks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonable turras-vn a fliort f
credit. r
Robert Henderfcn. ! <
april 1 mw4i»4w t
J Xlje <sasctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
'■ WEDNESDAY EVENING, April i*.
Yesterday at noon a large and refpedtable
| body of the merchants and traders of this
city' waited on the President of the United
States, and presented the following address
1 ligwed by about five hundred.
To the President of the United States :
The addrefaof the Merchants, Underwrit
ers and Traders of the city of "Philadelphia
RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH,
That the Merchants, Underwriters and
traders of Philadelphia, always joining with
t the general voice of thejr country,"far a
• refloration of a good understanding with the
| French republic ; the interruption to which
f has been so fatal tp their interests, cannot
but expiefs their deep regret at the failure
, of the late attempt to negotiate with that
country.
: But while they manifeft their concern on
' this unfortunate occasion, they think it
their duty to teftify their perfedl fatisfadlion
with t'rie disposition you have evinced, and
3 the means you have employed, to effedt that
I defirahle objedt.
i It appears that notwithflanding the mod
5 conciliatory condudt on ysur part ; wanton
and unprovoked aggressions on our com
merce are still to be continued, from pride,
, haughtiness, and' a spirit. of domination,
which are llrengthened by the ill grounded
- persuasion, that the views of ourgovernui«nt j
' and its citizens are not the fame ; and that
hostility may be maintained against us with j
~ little other ride than that of exciting on our
, part a harmless enmitv or resentment.
, As Americans, jt iJ. us of the honor, and
* attached to the freedom of our country, we
c repel with indignation every attempt to fe- |
parate usfrom the government of ourchoice ; j
J and although we may differ in local politics I
or in our sentiments, as to particular mea- ;
fures ; yet we shall ahvayl unite in opposing
the attempts ef any foreign nation to dimin
ish our rights as an independent people.
Under the impulse of these sentiments we
, come forward to affupe yon that we are pre
pared to meet any state of fuffering to
which our commerce may be exposed, by
the event we deplore ; and that reding on
the wisdom and patriotism of the public
councils of our country, for that protedtion
which it in the power of the government
to afford ; we beg leave to assure you, Sir,
we fliall give our sincere and firm support to
s, the measures which may be adopted for the
'• general welfare.
ANSWER.
To the Merchants, Underwriters, and Tra
ders, of the City of Philadelphia.
This patriotic Address, from an opulent
and powerful class of citizens, as it does
them honor, will give fatisfadlion to the go
vernment, and receive the applause of the
nation. In language the mod decent and
simple, it expresses the difintereded public
spirit, and determined resolution of Ameri
cans in the mod glorious, bccaufe the mod
\irtuous periods of our hidory. From me,
such sentiments demand my mod grateful
and unreserved acknowledgments.
I believe, I may with fafety appeal to
the good sense of the Merchants, Insurers
and Traders, not only of Philadelphia, but
throughout 'the United States, whether it
is in the power of any enemies we have, cr
it are likely to have, essentially to injure even
the commerce of this country, if protedted
by its own efforts, with such aids as are in
the power of the government to afford.
As in our natural career, there are me-
menti when iaadtivity is deftrudtive, so in
the political world, there ar: seasons when
- tranquility may be fatal.
If the sincere sentiments of my heart to
, wards France, which are now open before
the public, had met with a similar disposi
tion in the government of that country, we
fhonld dill have pursued our neutral, im
partial, and pacific course. But unhappi
ly, they have met with nothing that 1 can
discern, but a determined, thotigh insidi
ous spirit of hostility. The consequences
are not for me to anticipate.
Your assuranceS of support to the govern
[ ment, are very fatisfadtory, aad will be relied
■ on with entire confidence.
, JOHN ADAMS.
Philadclph a, April 17, 1798.
Yefterdav, the House of Reprefentativej of
the United States went int» a committee of the
whole on the state of the Union, on the bill to
enable the President to procure cannon, arms
and ammunition, and for other purposes;
when, after considerable debate (a (ketch of
which, with the other proceedings of the fit
ting, will be given in a future paper) theblank
containing the sum for the purchase of can
non, finall arms, ammunition and military
Itores, was filled with eight hundred thouland
dollars, and. that for the hire, purchase and
employ of foundries and arrjjories, with one
hundred thousand dollars. The bill was gone
through, and ordered to be read a third time
to-morrow.
In the paragraph in yesterday's paper, dat
ing the business of Monday, for " companies,"
read battalions.
The Gallic Editor of the Aurora is known
to be in daily and secret conference with a
certain high officer in the Government, (in
famous for his foreign correjpondence.) It is
! supposed the fruits of this republican con
j naction will be thrown on the parish before
long, for public maintenance. The brat
; may gasp but it will surely die in the infamy
i of its parents.
MR. FEN NO,
Some musicians lad night and the evening
before, had the audacious impudence to re
fufe playing the President's March ; altho'
requeftcd by the box and the greater part 1
!of the house. I reprobate llrongly the ac
tion of pelting the musicians, but would
Inve preferred the firm and dignified conduct
of leaving the Theatre, and refnin goinir
thither til! the managers positively declared
the President's March should be for *he fu
ture the firft tune played ill the house—and
further, give assurance that those gallic niur
der-fhouts, Ca Ira, Carmagnole and the
Marseilles Hymn, fliall no .%ore grate cur
ears. »
This may be called party spirit j and ex
ercising an undue influence in so public a
place as a Theatre. The firft assertion I
would admit—but let us look into' the na
ture of it. Would an American be so base,
so degenerate as to refufe his hearty a dent
to any measure which would evince an at
tachment to his President and constitution ?
And is not the President's March general
ly e(teemed a token of federal spirit ?
With refpeft to influence, this is my
opinion-^-
I would not compel any one man or body
of men to adt contrary to their ftntiments—
but at this critical jundture of affairs when
our country is on the eve of a war with
Fraace, I believe it incumbent on every true
American to shew an utter contempt and
hatred (but in a decent way) for every mea
lure,»fong, or mod trifling action that bears
the lead tindture of French principles.—l
would blush for my country could I believe
that there exided even a weak ; rty of na
tive Americans who would oppu.e, even a
f;ng, or tune indicative of a federal zeal and
true conditutional spirit. I fay nativ: for
there are some Demi-Americans partly of
French extradtion who feel a natural partial
ity to the country of their forefathers j and
also some out and out Frenchmen who, burn
ing with all the fanatical fury blazing in
France, have migrated here to heat the cool
and temperate spirit of Americans with
that fire which has consumed their own na-
I tion.
j Those pre the men who would cut the
i cords of our political union, fever the
j people from th. ir government and pull down
| that monument of American genius the
j Federal Conflitution.
I Such men should be discountenanced and
j sent home not only branded with the seal of
infamy but scourged with the Rod of Chas
tisement. LUCIUS.
Arrived at Baltimore on Monday, the
ship Hampton, Stafford, 7 weeks from Ham
burgh. The Hampton is said to have
touched at a port in England, from whence
she has had a fine run of 32 days.
s
BALTIMORE, April 16.
ExtraS of a letter from Norfolk to a gentle
maif in this city, dated April 8.
" You have doub less heard of the Spa
nish fleet being out. Copies of lo<-d St- Vin
cent's dispatches Parker in the
Wed Indies are in town. The Spaniardshad
19 and lord St. Vincent 22 fail of the line
—5 fail and 60 merchaßt3 (hips had gone
011 for the Wed Indies ; the others, it is sup
posed, for Bred. The frigate whi«h brought
the advices totheWed-Indies paffedthrough
the Spanish fleet. From what I can collect
the fleets were not more than from 10 to 15
leagues apart."
WORCESTER, April 4.
Mr. Thomas Stickney, Merchant, of
Brookfield, has invented a spring saddle,
for which he has received a patent from the
government of the United States. The
design of these saddles is, to counteradt the
motion, so as to make it less fatiguing to
the rider, and the weight less burdensome
to the horse.
We hear from Stilton, that on the 23d
ult. Mr. Ebenezer Boyce, with one of his
neighbours, was attempting to roll a log
upon two others, which were on a'fled, by
the help of oxen, when the chain broke,
and the low rolling back, knocked him
down, and, being borne up by the {kids,
passed his body but fell on his head, and
killed him in(tantly. He was the only son
of the widow Betsey Boyce, apromifing
young man, highly esteemed by his acquain
tance, aged 2 2 years.
B RAND Y.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CETTE,
Will commence lauding this day, at Smith's ftre'.t
wharf. '
lao pines 4th proof ") • -rj 1
.60 do Ift do. j Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, m pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in lacks
A few Almonds, Raisins, *c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO Also OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Qatavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
120 hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes,, hhds. and qr. caflcs
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
april 18. d?.weot^7M
For Cfiarlefton,
r* '£"3k"v. TH E BRI
W. B. Vaughas, mailer ;
AFina staunch, fafl failing vcjTel, with pood
accommodations for psjiltngers ; to fail in 6
days. For Freight or Pafldge, apply to the Cap
tain on board, at Morris's wharf, just above the
Drawbridge, or to
Peter Kuhn.
April 18.
For Boston,
THE FAST SAILING ERIC
Job" Prince, majler,
Will fail ou i uefday next. Fur Freight apply
to the mailer on board, at Chefnut ft reef whr.rf.
apriiiS.
, Tbis Day will be Landed,
From the biig Orlando, lyirg at Chefnut ftreci
wharf, and for file by the matter on board,
200 barrels Beef
100 do, N. Ti. Rum of a superior quality
12 hoglhca'is oi Codfjjh
100 bundle* CodGfo
up Til 16 *3t
~ NKW-THEATRI'.
Mr. Warren's Night.
THIS EVENING, April 14,
IVill beprefettcd, a Tragedy, in 3 jSIs (never perform id
here) —fw'cl at fa£i —called,
FATAL GUR'OSITY ;
Or, the COR NHH SHIPWRECK,
[Written by Air. L'llo. author of George BarnxceU, al
tered by J. P. Kevib'.r, Eftf and noiv performing at
Drutf Lane Theatre with unbounded apptaufe ]
IVi./not, mr F< n-c.i y You*g Wilnrot f mr Fox /
F.i.Jlacc, mr IVarrell ; RaMl\ "mr Warrell,jw ; Ser
vant, mr Hunter.
Agnes, mrr Merry ; Charlotte, art Marjhallj A£j.
rim miss IS
An EPILOUUE, adapted to lie Tragedy {-written in
America) to le fylen by Mrs. Marjhall.
MORE SACK—/In Epilogue, in the chunHer of Sir
John Falftaff, to be JpUen l.y M r . IVarrcn.
After -which an Interlude nailed.
Doctor Last's Examination.
[Taken from Eootc's Comedy of The Devil Upon T-um
,*■ \
DoHor Lajl, mr Bernard, Ihtlor Hellebore, vtr
Warren ; Secretary, mr IVarrell; Soßors, mejrs La
•vancVy Hunter, Lafferty, &c.
After ixbicb, Mr, and Mrs. Byrne ivill dance the much
admired
PAS RUSE.
To "which ivill he added, a Comedy, in three aRs (never
performed here) called
The Man of Qi> lity ;
Or, A 1 rip to Scarborough.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and
of Mr. Warren, Filbert, corner of Eleventh
ilreets,
Cj* On Friday, will be perfrrmed, the
Comedy, of the WEST
With a Mnfjcal Entertainment snot per
formed thtfe two years) called THE PRI
SONER—For the benefit of Mr. and Mrs.
Hardinge.
%* Mr. Parley's night will be on
Saturday next,
PhiejtMan againfl the Unitei Statks Bank.
An a<Hion for the recovery of 493 dollais 33
cents, which they unj'iitjy detaintfji, under
pretence that a draft that thjy hadn&id, finned
Wm. Prieflrnan, dated 10 July,' 96. for 446 dol
lars, was not a forgery; and a charge of Mr.
Raw le s Attoney, for 29 dollars 33 cents, rhe ic
July, <)7. Although (hecauf had rot >een tried.
I have heard of a charged pistol upon the highway,
but do not recollect so hold a charge, c u;d it le
gally amount to 33 cents ? but the Bulk probably
supposed that I woyli sooner submit to their impo
sition, than fee an attoney—They at the fame
time, to aggrvatethe imposition, arj-wfled nie for
about 100 dollars, at the fame time detaining J
Bank (bares in my name, worth at least 3000 dol
lars, to cover the pretended debt ; Mr. Wm. Bell
waimy bail.
Affidavits made before Hilary Faker, Esq. Mayor of
Philadelphia, on the IJth March, 1798.
Wm. Prieilman swears. that the Check dated 10
July, '96, and signed Wm. Pr e l .man, for 446
dollars, is not wrote by him, nor any part of it j
and that he has cause to fufpe<st, that Dr. Wm!
Grant, fate of New York, is the forger.
Robert Bicknell swears, that the Check dated 6
July, '96, signed Rob. Bicknell, for 441 dollars,
drawn on Pennsylvania Bank, is not his writing,
nor any part of it 5 and that he seas caufc to fuf
pedfc that Dr. Wm, Grant is the forger, and that
the letterjfigned John Rathbone, is the writing of
the said Dr. Grant.
John J. Auflin swears, that he is well acquaint
ed for several years with the writing of Wm,
Priertman, anr! that the Check signed Wm. Priest.
man, datei 10 July, '96, lor 446 dollars, is not
the writing of \v m. Prieftman, nor any part of it;
and that the Check signed Rob. Bickncl'., date 1 6
July, '96, ate both wro e by one am; the fame per
son, to the belt of his judgment and belief. .
Sworn be fore j.Yeate-, j8 March,
Any person may' diftinguith the-.vord / eß rand
tf.e word and are wrote by the fame person in rhe
three checks; and the real and forged Checks (lim
ed Wm. Pr,eflman,'are so much alike, where there
are the fame letters, that could write the
OIK, without having the oih r befdle him.
The Managers of the ba-.;k confidcred it as a
forgery, as two days alter they had paid it, they
let me draw 2SO dollars—\ month before, tb*y
ine 50 dollars, when confined tomy'room
for three months. .The next day aft-r the forged
Check ha 1 luen paid, Mr. fhomas M'Ewen and
myfelf called i-n the Bank, and t-e Caibier told
me that they did not mean to dirpute the forgery ;
Jehn Vaughan was prefcßt. Mr. SgmpfoH L.vy,
myfelf and Mr. Austin called to look at. the draft
ahout twelve months ago, u nd w'as refufed bv the
caibier, which looked (jafpicious .they, werr cunfei*
ous that it was a forger j. I have never kept a
clerk in this country, or ever employed any perform
to fili up a check io>- me. lam loforme i that the
pas er was of a difTeren- color, tr.ade, at a differed
time of year and of a dii} le ut patie ; -n, although
the bank re.ule ! po acquaint me either with the
names of the printer or paper-maker. The bank
may think to shelter them)-Ives hehind thev.-rilia
of an independent Jury 1 I certainly have no proof
t» the contrary—but it will rot fcrecn them front
the opinion of a difceruing pu lie—l am indepen
dent of ii&nks
W M . PRIESTMAN,
[ It ir.uft be always difficult to convid 9 V»at»lc who
have ten millions of dollars at command,~Eveq
it but paj-'flr.
. a P ril l - 6t
ADVERTISEMENT. *
LODGED fn theTreafury of the United Sia'ra to
Refunded, and for sale, between twenty an; thirty
thousand collats in Public cndo-Tcd by the
United States, with the promise ro pay theintered an*
nualiy at five per cent, per an; um.
The owners wanting money, will difpt/fe of the
whole sum at twenty five per cen- difcouut. So Jargs
a discount will make it an objes wiuS monied intij
who confide in public credit, or rely upon the molt
pert, ft engagement rver entered by Con^re's.
Enquire a: the Office of THOMAS M'EUiiN and
Co Chefnut Street,
april »8 dgw
JUST PUBLISHED, "
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
( Price 2*5 Cents)
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF TL'f? CONDUCT Of THE SX CUTIFt,
As ptiblifiled in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In ivhicb the Commercial Warfare of Frantr is traced
to the French Faction in this Country, as its Siurct,
and the Motives of Oppojilion, ty..
march 30.
For Sale,
'-pHE time of % NEGRO LAD, who hat a.
J. hoUt three to serve—He
capable of and ul'ed to all kinds of houl>- work |
h:i n1 so been arcuftorncd to wait it table. \
purchaser residing in the country would he pr«»
fe:red. Enquire ofths Printer,
Apriln- t tod^wManchester Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, fe
deral trunk*, suitable sot the pr« sent and ap
proaching fsafon, which WjilJ be fold very
low for ca(h or on a ibor't credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy Waiftcoating in Marfcilles, &e.
Cott«»n and tolk and cotton Hosiery, Pantaloon*,
&c. r
A variety of (Fngli<h) Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding, &«.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflinets, and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs, entitled to
drawback, and very suitable for the Weft-Indies.
Apply No. 35 South Water and corner of Chef
nut street- —s lw
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1795.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
TH ATpropolals will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the 1 >th day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations which may be required
for the uie of the fJnited States, fromthe firli day of
O&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days incluiive, at the places and within
the diftri# hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; at Picque Town and
Loramie's store ; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanoo on the River Wabafti; at Maflac; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Missis
sippi above the piouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illit.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said State ; at
Knox Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of J ennefTec ; any place or
places on theeaft fide of the River Mifliflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of Tennes
see, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies lhall be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
lhall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th- fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whfrf-"}
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts f hu J, dr3(l
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rations
on« pound of candles J
The rations are to bf furnifhed in such quantities,
as fait there (ball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the consumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego*
for the ferm of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholefomc provi
fions, if the fame (hall be required. It is to be un
derltood, that the contractor is to be at the.ex
pence and rifle of issuing the supplies to the troops
at.each post, and that all lofles sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, lhall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcftroyeJ, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
ble chara&ers, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
lofsand the am aunt of the articles for which com
pensation lhall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
lie furrilhed under thepropofed contrail, shall be
iflued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the conttadl now in forte have
b*en consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. ♦
march 17. anwtisjy
jßargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different sizes, at a very large
discount from the sterling cost. If this Glass is
not disposed of before the sth of April, it will he
{hipped from this port.
For terms apply to No. 89* South Third-flreet.
march 26. §iw,
FOR SALE,
BY the subscribers, No. zi, .Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
I John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftfling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Cofiae* Punjum Cloths
Sanalit Gmzeydo.
Hum Hums Charconna Dorca
Blhc Cloth Tjnjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Maraoodys Checks
Mahar.agonges Pat-na Ilkfs.
Ginghams Niwlmui do.
Guzzenas Bambrwioe«
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Komals
S'lgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romsls • Persians of ririous col.
Meek Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
jf.coolb. PEPPER.
Willings y Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours,
February 8. dtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
, March loth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an acl of Congress parted on the
19th day of March, 1798,1116 following
a terations and amendments have been made to
the ail parted on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled " An a£t laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The flatrp duties on debentures or dertifi
catei for the drawback ol'Cuttoms er duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors [
or Infpe£lors refpetlivetyj to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be damped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment dr Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
HI.
Stamped Paper, will be prcvided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (tamprd Parchment or
Vellum, in additional prce will be diimnded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each Ikin of Parch •
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furniftp
rd it the expenfeof the United States aod pro
foitionally for any leflrr quantity-
Given t-ndcr my kr,nd, r.t Philadelphia, the
day and ye\r abovementiontd.
' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary cf the Treajury.
Frefli Teas.
JuJJ Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
' Captiin Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
A* his Conpting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyibn Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
Chiha Ware, afTorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteitring Umbrellas,
whale-bone dicks.
Tbey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxeb.
march 8. §
New Publication.
A Sen/Me, Seafonalle and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpedts ?"
A few Pages for Americans,
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second" streets,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut ftr.
f Price three fixtecnihs of a dollar J
Fxtrail from the above.
" It is ajloriijhing to hear the expence of ivar so often
urged, and by well meaning feop-'e too t o«tiinfl our takitrg
any measures of felf preformation—jbull Wje be dcjlroytd,
because tve will not incur the expente of defence. For m\
own party if it is neeejjary I Jbould give one half of all
I have to save the other, I Jhjll not heftate to do fo —If
moxe is requiftte. more fall be given ; and iffinally, I
mujl give up all to prefcrvt my life and liberty, all Jhall be
freely given. The true vealth of a nation conftfls in its
independence and fecuriiy, and not in accumulating gold to
lie in useless heaps t or enrich tlx triumph of a savage con
queror—At a time tvhen half the ivorld is racked in dire
convuljions when immense countries are desolated and pow
erful nations extirpated, if we ffcape with expence only,
we may deem ourselves very fortunate"
j ipril S dtj
Twenty Dqllars Reward.
rHE Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-ltreet
was on the night of the 19th instant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces troud, viz.
-374 20 1 gj ue ft,: OUC j f ln g] e
2 3? 8 20 * } cord. S
2379 20 J
2380 20 \ 1
2381
2382 20 ~ ,
»3«S tVofori '
2384 20 I
2385 20$ J
The above reward is ofFcued, for the discovery
of the pfcrpctrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to jullice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, ou delivery of the j
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april 2. Iw
NOTICE.
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferre
Debt of the United States ot the fellowin
description, viz—N«. 10033, 10034, and 10035,
for SQOO dcliars each, dated Bth May, 1797, and
ftan*ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni*
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near Abergavenney in England,
Esq. have heen lojt by the capture of the fliip Bac
chus, from hence to London, in June Laft.—Thjs,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that j
apf lieation will be made at the Treasury of the U
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington Iff Harwood.
march 22 §6w
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, standing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 6w
1 MESSAGE
X)f the President of the United States,
To both Houses of Congress,
APRIL 3, *9B
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
FOR sale
At No. 63 North 3d street, at Way&Groff's
Printing-Office, No. 27 Arch street, and at the
office of the Editor, No. 119, Chelnu-ftreet
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saflafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
boHt 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow hou r es, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading flo'or under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , See. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it rcauires but liftle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herringfiihery. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two land'ngs on a navi
gable river but a fliort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the piemif«s; also. a variety of excellent fruits of
different kind?. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will bs fold together, or divided into
fiualler farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stpck on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpof«dof. For further
particulars apply to Gf.orog Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubfeiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. 4aw6w
FOR SALE, at
Wm, Young's Book Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Repr«fentatlvesof the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles'of Impeachment
3£ain(l WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houftof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftrudting rhem 11 to enquire, and, by all lawful (
" means, todifcover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" (lands impeache.l, and who are the parties and
w aflociatestherein."
Printed by order of tke House of Reprcfcntativcs 1
j French Morning Schqo
G. 1) UF IE F,
RESTEPTFUI LY informs his friends and the
) public, that ha has removed from No. 71,
| Chefnut (Ireet, to No. 63, South Second ftrcec ;
where he will open, on Monday next, the 16th
' infl. a Morning School, from 6to 8. He contin
i uc6 to teach every day from 4 to 6 iu the after
njou, and from 6 til! 9 in the evening.
N. 3. Private Tuition attended to as usual, and
" tranfla'ions from either language iuto the other,
performed withfccrccy, accuracy and difgatch.
' april 12. *3t
Israel Morris "j /
against j Maryland.
Thorcn s Margatroyd, James Bell, jjln Chancery,
Marlkall and Benjamin Smith, r March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, j 1795.
deceased. 1 J
objeft of the bill, is for ibe Complain
nant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief again/}
a judgment on a bond by hitn executed, on the
31ft day of December, i;Bt, to thefaid Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £.200 principal.—
The relief is prated on the ground, that the
Complainant assigned, by way of fccurity for
the (aid money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, fofthe sum
jC-35" that the said Tucker received of the
money due on the said la ft mentioned bond the
turn of and neglefted to take (leps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became insolvent.
The bill (tares that all the defendants are
now refidentsof the State. It is therefore, 011
his motion, adjudged artd ordered, that he
cause a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks successively, In some newspaper of Phila- j
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside, I
at any time before the firtt day of May next, |
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants applicarion to
this court and of the fubflance and objeft of his
bill and may be warned to appear here or or
before the third Tnefday 111 September next, to
shew cause, wherefore a decree ihould not pass
as praved.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Keg. Cur. Cjh.
apri I 3 cojw
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration fer the relief of poor and diftrelTcd
p> efbyterian miniflers and the poor and diflreflcd
widows and children of presbyterian aiinlflers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian church in the
eity of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
business as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
■April 7. tawt 16m
I'HE1 'HE term of Co-partnership between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
confeut will not be renewed - The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted.to the parrtnerfhip,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay,
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
LANDING, "
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600. bags prime Sugar,
800 tlo. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Milkr, "Jun.
march 3 S
Alex. y. Miller sis James Davis,
Having entered into partnerfbip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Sff Co.
INFOU.M their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet,Philadelphia ; where
they now have, arid intend kceeping a general af
frtJtment of India, German, lrijh y French and Sri'
tijh Mannfafturesfor sale, on advantageous termr
for calh or a (hort credit.
February 19 § t f
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate afe, and at a reduced price—Fdr
file by JAMES YARD.
April 4. d ;w
TO BE LET,
Andpojjejjion given immediately,
Agenteel three story brickHoufe,
No. 7, North Eighth ftrect,
24 feet front and 55 feet deep, with a handsome
Garden. Enquire at No. 128 Spruce ftrect.
April 4 §
Jult Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
ISAAC HARVEY, Juk.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of GeoTgia Cotton.
At SO,
Prime Aux-C«yes Molafies
Raisins in keg*
Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons ©f Nicaragua woo J.
4th mo. 4th § 2 w
IMPORTED,
111 the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a quality in boxes aad balkets
Lunelle
Sauterne ( _ _
Macarty, and ( Wmes in Cases.
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS Ott HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Intit'.ed
Irish market "} , ( to
Medoc, and Sau'erne j ,nes m s ' 5 drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
fwo trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4DOO fcufhels I iverpoolSalt.
march 19 _mw&ftf
L A N D IN G
From on board the Schooner Ranger, from
jfACSJJEMSI,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 117 Chefnut-rtreet.
Who lias remaining on hand 6,c00 pieces In
dia NANKEIf<S, of i ftiperior quality.
March 15. d6t
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cbefls of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine ftrect;, Djc »6—cots 1
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1795.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpurfuance of the Aft of CHtigrefs pa(Ted on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
rii ety-feven, entitled " An Aft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ail railed on the fifteenth day of Dec.mber, »ne thousand fe»en hundred and ninety-ferea, entitled
" An Ait to p*»(lponetor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Aft enti
tled " An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper"/ that from and after tho
firft day of July enfming, the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec»
ted throughout the United Stat 4%
Tor every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, tspon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the inllrumenti or writings! olio wing—to wit:
Dls Cts. |MU
Any Sertificate of Naturalization, .....
Any Licence to praftice,or Certificate of the adraifiion,enrolment er registry of
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney,A dvoeate or Proftor, in asy Court of the
United States, ... . 10
Provided, that a Certificztein any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office?, shall so #,r is relates to the payment of the
duty afsretaid, be a fui!;cient admifiion in all the Courts of the United.
Stairs, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - -
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 4
Any Charter-rarty, Botti mry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge foror on accountof any Legacy leftby any Will or e
tber testamentary inftri>ment, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftrfbuti»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... .
When the>amour,t thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hyndred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Houdred Dollars, the additional sum of j
Any Policy of Insurance or inilr»ment in nature thereof, on any ship, vefltfl or
goods insured from one diftrii} to another in the United States, 2 $
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - j
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular date, - 5 0
Any Pond, hid single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiffnry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
life refpeflively, -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - xo
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, xj
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ja
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds-or notes (ball be fubjedl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - - - •
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 4
"If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollar s, I IO
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I 30
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iffiied by the banks now eftabliflred, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the note-s of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders re%>edlively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... t
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 4
Any Protest or other Notarial aif, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - - 25
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, . - - - I
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, »
Far more than two thousand dollars, * " - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If 'from one diftri<a to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - , ro
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, . .
Any itory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efTefls, made in any *
cafe required T>y law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50 *
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a snare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - IO
If above one hundred dollars, - - I 25
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
, f 11.
The dutiesaforefaid will be csllefted and received by the Supervisors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the fcveral Diltrifts, Ssrveye and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
persons as (Hall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diitruas for
that purpose.
HI.
The Supervif®rs of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be prafticable, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or prjccls of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties - Or
ftainped velhim, parchment and paper r,.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, bc'ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infp«aor, Officer of Infpedien
or other per£on appointed for the difbribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftriels *
GIVEN under my Baud, at PbilaJelfbia
the day and scar ahrvjementinned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Trtafary.
Red Clover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediateufe, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter caflcs.
Teneritte Wine,
And, Window G^afs —all of which will be fold
on very reafenable terms, by
"John Craig,
march r wstf No. It, Dock Street.
N O T ICE.
ALL persons who have any demands againfl
, the estate of Willam Tlfetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exkibit their accounts,
properly atttfled ; and those who are indebted
to the lame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ '»
No. 25, So. Third-flreet. 5 > n,n \fl r r
fanuary 4. dtf
Just Publilhed,
And to be had at the Book-flores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or, Bilious
Fevers.,
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa&s and reflexions relative to
the Synochus l£ieroides y or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diflrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
■towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of tjje Philadelphia Colleg-e of Phylicians,
and Member of the American Philoiophicai So
Canal Lottery—No. if.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the'ioth
in(l. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm, ELACKBURN's Lottsry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
fickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Trn
Dollar,, where check books are kept lor render
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing- I
ton, No. ll.and Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe hadin mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Unioir.
N.B. The bufinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of PHblic Stock and Securities,
difco?«ting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
I.ands, Houlea, &£, &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBUH N.
November 1;. j
Salisbury Estate.
THE Sublcriber, proposing to contra© his busi
ness, otters this Edate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ttones ; alfoagood Forge all
in perfcft repair, as are all the Water Works conncft
cd with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately buik for the purpose of casting Cannon
fortius State.—There are about two thoufaod acre
of i.and, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pafiure. The Cannon lately mannfatlnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
lupenor to any in thu country, and probably, eqxal
to any in the world ; for notoue of fi«ty-nine g H n»
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have tailed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture,and a place of a.m> Iving in the date
of Connecticut.and only s o miles from several land,
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes The purchaser can bepccommodat
w"h *" th * " ock a '" ! utensils, and have p-)ifcffion
onor before the firft of Junenext, and, preparation
may be made in the meanume for goinginto Blafl im.
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
m good order, with forwe coal, Ore, See. See For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Kfq. one of the Reprefeftasivei
in Congress for this State j Mr, D.vid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or tothe proprietor in iiJew-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOM,
Doe - «• 3 awtf
NOTICE. '
4 Manufaaery of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in thij Country before, has been
been lately erefted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,'
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, ftaie of New
York, where any article of various forts and dupe*
may be executed, as well as earthern Doves upin »
new condrufhon, that saves three fourths »( thefuel
commonly used in cad iron doves or open chvmnies;
. they are befidesvery wholesome and .rnimeuul, br
applyingto '
J. MOUCHET.
Wanted a fltillful hand to attend to the bakimxand
glazing part of the said ware. Generous appoint,
mervs will be given. Apply a, above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth'Street.
Feb - '9- eod 4 w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou.
rfcm w,ll be given; to be taken for a year, or oa
more for a longer »erm. Inquire of the Printer.
OS. 17. eetf