cf tje Unitetl Jstafrs, Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1708.J
For Hamburgh,
THES H I P
Dominilk Terry,
Jacob Dkhakt, Mafier,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
"JeJfe & Robert Wain.
F.bruary 26 f
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATI FOR SALE)
58 hhd>. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
TeneriSe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths cherts
Sail Canvafu, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ff 5 suit able for tb« Weft-India market
Nails afforttd
Black quart bottles
Qutens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow echre dry in ca&s ;
And at New-York, on board the
Ihip Diana, from Liverpool, fcxpefled round
i> soon as the navigatioa i« open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown "]
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown i pATOT e
Patent White ) PAINTS
White Ltad |
Red Lead J
fco!c'>th»r vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing p»per
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. I!. '1 fce late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now oliancfd tn
NICKLIN V GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
■l*l .1 ■ ... . 1 i „ . -
For Savannah,
' The fajl failing Ship
ntf&r SWIF i PACKET,
(a trader)
Patrick Gri bjen, mtfer,
- ■ -* J WILL fiil on the 1 "th .nil.
(ice permitting) has handsome accommodations
for paflengm. For freight or paflage apply to
the mailer on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Marlrtt-ftreet, or
N. J. Fraxier,
No. 95, South Front-Hreet.
February 3. i :
For Amiterdam, !
J—t The Sh ip 1
FARMER, '
John M'Coilom, Mafler ; 1
. WILL fail in a few days, the
Sd*cSii3tEls-"ipreater part of her cargo being -
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffise, or
paffagt, apply to the master on board, at Wal- '
aut-ftret-t Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i» landing, out of th# said Chip, from
Bourde-aux, «nd for sale,
Claret ih hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflcs
Glaret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in cafe*
Lunillr, ,1
Prunes ill boxes
No>embet<|.
For Sale or Charter,
M&i GOOD HOPE
Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
v/israadv totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for fitte—prime St Croix Sugar
and ttntfti Madera, Lifeon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway servant Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
Smith, and fending her to North Front-flreet, No.
45. fche is of a chunky make, and very dark f
complexion, with round featnre*, and black buftiy 0
iuir; probably much altered by paint and pow- v
as H:e is supposed to be feereted in houses of |
d fame, though no more than fifteen years of age. f
February 19. colw (1
House and Lots, in Bordentown. ' L
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House, i
with the Lot on which ii is ereifled, fituat- a
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy »
Village of B'>rdentovn. The house is forty ?
iwo feet in front, and in neat order. The lot '
xontainsone acre, and is one hundred feet on i J
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
jtaining nearly four acres, fepirated ffom the c
former by back street. One third only of the u
purchase money will be required upon exccut- n
ing a deed, ard for the remainder, such credit "
W.li be given as (he purchaser may chufe. This 1 '
property w ill be fold free of all incumbrances, "
and an indisputable title given. t
For further i«rticulars enquire either of Dfr. '!
William Burnes, residing in Bi'rder town, near '
the prtmifesi who will Ihew the fame, or of [
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
December %. 3awtf
5 IN THE PRESS, ~ (
ANB JPI EDI LY WILL Be PUM-ISUrD, j,
(Prict Cents ) p
Refledions on Monroe's View
or ran conduct or EXfevrtri,
Aa puUifhcd in the
OAZETTE of rt.e UNITED STATES,
■ • Urcjer the fijpiatutt of
S CIPI o,
In which tbec ommercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faflion in «bi« country
as its lanrre, ami the motivts of the oppolition 0
to the measures of the United States arc cxpofed.
Feb.*.
P HJLA D E LP HI A
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be eipofed to Public oale,
at the Merchant!* Coffee-houfe in Secoiyi-Ureet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two brick Houle, with t two
(lory frame Buildings, on a lot 20 feet front and
_ ioc feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
intcreft hat lately been let for aQO dollars peV an -
num, and is firuated in Chriftian-ftrest, between
Front and Second-(lreeti, the fecosd house from I
Mr. Caleb Aih's.
No. 1. A three (lory brick House, situate at
the Borth east corner of Chefnut (Ireets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 10 feet on Chefnut-
S street, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is det mea one of
• rfie bell (lands for the fab of dry goods in this city.
No. l- A handfcme well finiflied three llory
brick House, 10 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-drew, between Market and Arch
ftreets, Mo. 40 This oufe is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellar* under the whole Theie is a cillern
of riin water in the yard ; and the house is at pil
fer t let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three lloiy brick House, situate in
Plumb-flreet, bstweeu Second and Third street,
being 10 feet front and 130 feet deep, at prefem
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. j. A thrcf story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-flreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is £ve flory. It is ao
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and i» rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter calh,
one qnarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in li months.
Philadelphia, (an 12,1798. Jaw
£s* On account of the present bad weather, the'
above sale is postponed until ThurCJay evening, the
firft day of March', at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR S4' E,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Gadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
boat 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfeer'* houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of •
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but ittle fencing, !
and has a good Shad and Herring fiflv ry. It is'
conveniently situated fur both the Philadelphia and ;
Valtimore markets, with two landings on a navi- '
gal le r vtr but a (hort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the piemifas; aifo, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil ismoftly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
frailer farms (Tor which.the buildings are conven
iently si liated) as may fui' the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, <onfifting ol Horfet», Cattle,
Sheep; &c. will also bt disposed of.—For further j
•particulars apply to Gkorgb Hastings, on the
premises, or tothe fubferiber, in Phi adel-<hia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24# aaw6w 1
JUST ARRIVED, \
In the Ship star, Joseph Woodman, mafler, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, aflort
ed to suit WtfT India market 2
40 hogsheads Wniring
15CO buflielsg od House Coals
Also— JUST UNDID,
barrels prime Beef, Boil on and New-York
50 barrels Pork
150 hhd*. Hava-.na Molafles
Woolen Cloths^
Blaukete ( afforded in packages
Hard Ware j
Ravens Duck
Window Glass in boxc?, Brrifh, of various sizes **
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 grocc each J
A general assortment of Queens* Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces arid FiTtols, in cases a
Basket fine Salt, in hogTheads £
FOR SALE BY *
Thos. & John Ketland. 1
February 15 stiM '
Salisbury Estate.
' 0
THE Subscriber, propjfmg to contrast his bufi
ness, offers (his Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all,
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conned
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of catting Cannon
for this State.—There are abou: two thousand acre*
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best H*y and *
Paflure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the meial, which is C
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal T
to any in the world ; for not o*»e of frnty-nine guns C
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored S
into 32 pounders, have faifrd «n proving. The situ- A
aiion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafture, and a place of arms lying in the ttate
of Connefticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifTuing a
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other* n
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftockand ulenfils, and have poflcdion
on or before the firtt of June next, and preparation -
may be made in the mean lime for going into Blast im- i
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with foroc coal, Ore, Sic. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr. jofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ECq. one of the Reprefema&ives (
in Congress for this State ; Mr, D.ivid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or tothe proprietor in New-York. f
WILLIAM NEILSOM. n
Dee. »« f (
Surreyor General's Office, p
December a, 1797. n
ON a releafc of survey of 433 acres,6B perches
of land, (hiwte in lower Smithfield townfllip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills, \
p«-r warrant #f ad. March, 1786, the Deputy Sur- V
veyorhat'h made the following note, viz, S
1 hi* land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and t'
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer- M
tified for Daniel Broadhcad, Lfq. Surveyor Gene- f (
ral—William Parker.
The,firft Monday in March next is appointed for j f
a hearing of the parties on the a' ove civeat, or any u
others inr-refted or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary
of the Land Office.
AT. Lufboro\ish. •
Janaaqr 16 _ SiiFmtm
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Sh«l
lv, of Oitted Cottage, in the County o)
1 Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinller, or her afiiwns
'• for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock ef
the United States, was 101 lin the {hip Pcgjy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
» in the year 1796. The fuhferiber, the fiid Han
-1 nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
. the United States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
> tificate.
SHELLY.
J Feb. iaw6vv.
rHE term of Co-partner(hip between the sub
scribers, trading under the (irm of John Mil
( ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
: cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted.to the parroerlhip
. are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J un .
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
Ne. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONOIT WHICH ARE
Gurrahs Mamaadies
Baftai Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda Coffaes
Guzzies Einerrics >
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchioft
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
1 ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Ess Co.
INFORM friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; where
, they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, Germany Irijh, French and Bri
j tijb Mannfadlures for sale, on advantageous termr
I for cafli or a iiort credit.
| February 19 f f
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's lad cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of'1 795.
'Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2w
A PRINT.
rHE Print, reprofenting Gxneral Wajhino
ton and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the ljth of
March next.
An unfinifhed impreflioo is to be feen»t Mr M'El
wees's looking-glafi (lore. No. 70 South Fourth Street.
Tne fuhfeiption will close on the 10th of March
next. Sub r c ibers may depend on having the bed
Printsat one guinea *nd an half. To non-fubferrbers,
the price wilt be two guineas.
February 19.
FQRBALE,
A quantityof CALF SKINS, ia the rough.,
and f»mt horse leather. Apply to
RORERT SMITH y Co.
No. jB, South Front llrect.
Feb. 15. diw
NOT.ICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common poal of
the County of Cape May in the ftste of New- '
Jersey, bath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, m and
fpr the said county, prajing that they would '
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gamfl his liberation, pursuant to an a<sl of the (
Legislature of this State,entitled "an aS for I
the relief of insolvent debtors," paflsd the i6th
day of Ja-uary 1798 —And the the said court f
did appoint Monday the 26th day of Marvh 1
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the |
Court House in the Middle Precindt, at eleven
oVlork, in the forenoon of tb« said day, «f which
his creditors are requeftad to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798. f
Feb. 14 —iaw;w
Piifon Manufactory.
FOR. SALE, '
At the Prison of tlie City and County of
phia,
Cut Nails of all Czes, from jdy t<J aody
Tlooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakeis and Sa<£K rs Thread
A Mb—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea. l Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, (labs, facia, window heaJs fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dit-lance, dire&trd to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pitfon, will be attended to.
December 16 mth6m
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut'and Fifth flreets, fronting the State- F
Hr.use square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen _
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at .
present two small two story brick houlii, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry and SalTafras
Streets, cbntaining in front «n Water street sis- T
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east- ■
ward ninety-five feet, the» widening to the J'
foutli thirteen feet fix inches. Thele houses t ;
have the convenience of a puhl'c alley adjoin- r j
ing »n the north fide, and area very detirablcfit- (j
uation for a a merchant, flour factor, or others
who may have ocrafion for flo-age of gqods. f {
Thu property will be fo'd on very reafonible d
terms for ralh For further information apply I,
to the printer. b
i«!y Jl. n&wtf
THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 1, 1798.
NOTICE.
Notice.
L ~ tT The (hip Star from London will commence
discharging to-morrow miming at Walnut ilroet
i* wharf, win re confignecs arc to fend their
1- permits immediatuly.
cf
jr, : ——
n This Day is Published,
If By John Ormrod,
> 4>. Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia,
A PLAN FOR TUP 'CONDUCT OF
FEMALE-EDUCATION,
fn Boarding Schools, Private Families, and Public
- Seminaries.
j; By ERASMUS DARWIN, M.D.F.R.s.
Author of Zoononia, and of tie Botanic Garden.
To which are added,
RUDIMENTS OF TASTE,
IN A SERIES OF LETTRRS,
J From a MOTHER to her DAUGHTERS.
£mbelliQied with an elegant Frontispiece.
(Price, neatly bound, gilt and lettered, em >,lUr.)
CONTENTS.
• The Female Charailer, Music and Dancing, Read
ing, Writing, Grammar, Language*, Physiog
nomy, Arithmetic, Geography, History, Nat«-
ral Hiflory, Rudiments of Taste, Beauty, Grace,
Drawing and Embroidery, Perfpeftive, Heathen
Mythology, Polite Literature, Novels, Art- and
Sciences, Morals, Companion, Veracity, Pru
dence, Justice, Chastity, Fortitude, Bafhfulnels,
I'cmpcrance, Religion,-Addrefs, Converfatitn.
Ezereife, Dumb bells, Air, Bed-rooms, Fire
grates, Care of the Shape, Cold Bath, Drefi,
Earrings, Powder, Amusements Chefs, Pu
nifhmcnts, Rewards, Motives, Liip ng, Stam
mering, Squinting, Involuntary Metiors. Swel
led Fingers, and Kibed Heels, Beds, Rheuma
tifin, Diet, New Milk, Economy, School-edu
cation, uses of, Catalogue of suitable Books.
ALIO JUST rOBLISHtD,
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
o R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collection of interesting and
mifceilaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young njinds the happy eft*e£? of youthful in
nocence amd filial affection—* In prose and verfc.
Defigncd to improve and amufethe rising gene
ration. Embellilhed with an elegant Frotif
piece and seventy-three Cuts. Price 7 c oefits.
_ Fcb ? 6 . at
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 92® acres, aim oft: all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Hnrl of Stirling), it may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Baft by the river Pafaiek.
1 hr* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—-The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and,a fmallexpence woifld
put it in complete repair.
The orchard contrfts of 1500 fin# bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts oi said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and uoft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Ttsfituation is abeut j8 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafli, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co. •
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February a. eodtf
Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
icl Crawley, Mailer,
p"v and f Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
Gearge Latimer £s° Son.
nwemker q.
Bolton Glass Manufactory.
r T"'HE citizen? of the Ihiitrd State*, art hereby
JL informed, that the minufailure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
Bolton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent '
quality of the Boll.n Glaf*, as it is so well known '
throughout the United States to Tie in every rtf- '
pe<S greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may he constantly had by applying to Cbarfet F.
Kuffer, at theGluf. House "
Orders from the distant States tD be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gpre } Court-street, Bolton.
£.T Iwo or three good Glass maker* are want
ad at the above works ; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be lure of >
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of r.aking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with th« fame encouragement, I
Boflon, January 16 »■—.jaivfcw
Jult Published,
And to b« had at the Book-stores of MelTrs. Dob- t
sow, Campbell, Yoono and Okhrod, 1
in Philadelphia, P
OBSERVATIONS 8
Ob the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious »
Fevers.
To lubich it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op-niens and prailice of ■*
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib- ?
iting intcrefling faAs and reflexions relative to i
the Synochut lOeroidei, or Yellow Fever, which '
has occasioned so much difirefs and mortality, 1
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United S'atcs of America.
• by WILLIAM CURRIE. £
Felow of the Philadelphia Colli ge of ' hyficjaHs,
and Member of the American Philoiophical So- ~
C"*ty. Feb. i
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thejoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in tlii. Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Soutli Seeond-Oreet A
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollart, where check books are kept lor regider
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Patt.rfon Lotteries, and inTorma- .7
tion where ftckets mayle had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union. „
N. B. The buftnrfsof a Broker, inbuyinpaod
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, T
(iifcoi siting Bill* and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c.&c. will be duly-attended to,
by W.M. BLACKBURN.
November 1 f. j c
.! The Commissions rs
ft 'T^" 01 *- carrying into th» TWENTIf-FIRST
ir A Article cf the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,and
Navigation, betwetn His Catholic Majesty and the
LTuitod Sutisof Am.rica, hereby give information
~ to all Persons therein concerned—! hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of the lo!T>
c» fullained by the citiz n* of the United States, in
conlcquence «f their Viffes nd Cargoes having
bepn t .ken by the Su!>je&s of His Ca'ho'ic Majes
ty, during the late war becween Spain and Franc;,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
ic tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, anthorized by the said
Article, during eighteen months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine all such perfoni at c»me b.fore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com laiats in
question, e nd also to receive in evidence, all writ
fen testimony, authenticatsd in such manner at
they fl»all think proper to require or admit.
jjy Order of the Ccr rrjJio'erj,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary..
Commlffimrrs Office, No. 109, Multeity
flrt.t, May 17 tb, 1797.
Feb, 28, '98 —§im
:, " Tbnfe Printtrs in the ftveral States ttho jwbliji.
1 the advertftment lajl Spring, ate requtJJed U
J fe*pubt'Jb it t,ne wontb, and fend tbeii■ atcountt to P. L.
A Gardener wanted,
• ' TO move to the DiO ricl of Cplumbia, one who
: underftanel-. his bsfinefs well, to whom generous
, encouragement will he given. Application 1: ttil
be mide immediately, at Wo. 5, South Fourth.
■ street, to GEORGE WALKER.
Feb. 17. »jt
Three ag four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
, On reafonahle terms, by applying at Wo. 31,
North-fireet, between Fifth anst Sixth-streets.
February 13, qo d 3 t
FOR SALE, " —'
BY the subscribes, No. 11, Penn-flreet,
| The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
* CdMiJiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Cofiaea Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Guzzeydo.
Humhums Charcoitna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Muimuls
Mamoodys Cheeks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs,
Oinghams Multnui do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Guirahi Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Komals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perlians of Tarioui col.
Meek Pulicats
»00 tons SUGAR
50,000 lb. PEPFEK.
Willing! Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft comer of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. ofele.
gant patten s and best colours
February 8. j t f
FOR SALE, *
By WHARTON set LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamiiea Rum, •> e nti*rl c d to
I a aud ad pro.f Brandy, f drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. £cc.
Fe! ' ? todtf^
£>(. Croix Sugars.
16 hogCieads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
For sale by
JOHN NIXON V Go.
Fcb - 9 fm&wif
Wanted,
An aflive, cleanly, induflrious woman to cook
avid do the business vf the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other needap,
p.y.—Enqu ire of the Printer. r
February j r
Lately Publiftied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, cornea of
Second and Chefnut fireets,
(Price 3-Btbt of a dollar)
Obfer vat ions on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the Um'ted States for
the year 175)6,"
In which the charce oi sptetji.ATiOM apainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FUI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HI MS E LP.
This publication presents a conc.Te natemtnt of
the base- meacs praflifed by the Jacobin, of the
United States to asperse the characters cf those
p.r.ons who are considered a» hollile their d for
gamzing schemes. It also contains the correfoon-
Hamilton an.i Messrs. Monroe
Muhlenourg and Vrnable, on thefubiefl of the
documents aforefa.d, and a lVr.es qf letters frr.m
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilton
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, thjt thn'
connuSiion between him and Reynold, was the re,
rultof a daring coal piracy on the part of the lat
ter and Ins afTuciatet to extort money.
m , dlfconnt of onc third from the retail
price will be madt in favor of wholesale nurch«.
fers, for cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr
Younq, ••
February
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS,
r Forenoon Edward Fox, No. it
/ outh From-ftrcet,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No 61
C. South Front flr«ft.
f' Forcnnon—Jolin Connelly, Old City
Tuerd«v\ . , Aua,Jn ' Nn 7.lfouth Front-ftroct.
Afteriwoß-W,lli 3|n Shannon, N«
C Its High-street. '
WeiKtfdar \ A'tcrnoon—Peter 3enfo», No. 74
' J l south Third-flrcet. *
Tbarfinj $ .noon—Edward Fox.
Atteruooh-—John Cona<lly
Friday ] * O / cn °™- Wiilwm Shannon,
\ Atternoon—John Connelly.
Sjtur.iaj A fternoon —Peter Be:: Ton,
[Volume XIII.' Wi ll WW——WW——i
CONGR E $ S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
#
Debate on a Repeal of the Stamp A3.
MONDAY—FEBRUARY 26.
(Concluded fin n y/lerdnf'j Cazetl.)
Mr. Har per was not of opinion that this
motion ought to be rtjefted. No doubt
there wa* information enough to convince
gentlemen the refolation ought to he rejeft
ed; but it appeared by the vote whieh had
been taken that the information Lid before
gentlemen had net bee* fuflieiently attend
ed to, and he thought there were other state
ments which would have a powerful influence
on this qfceftinn. Mr. H. denied tfiat the
stamp aft wat exclusively appropriated for
the refunding of the 800,000 dollar! to be 1
borrowed by the President. Incontempla- |
tion of what event Mr. H. aflced, was thia j
stamp duty laid ? It would be recollefted
that it was to provide forthat expence which
would be confrquent on a situation of things .
into wliich we might be drawn by ourunad- !
justed difference* with a foreign power.—
The Congress met at their extraordinary ses
sion under a if-rong impceflion that thi» event
would take place ; and though the determi
nation of the question was podponed by
fending a million, yet they deemed it wife
to resort to a revenue to meet an expence j
which might result. Let gentlemen ask one
farther question. Has the probability of the !
neceflity of great expencei diminished since !
that period? So far as we know, ev.»- ap
pearance grew wore inauspicious. Those
very envoy*, with whom it was said France
could not refufe to treat, because they went :
specially empowered, weknowwere fix weeks
in Paris before any notice was taken of them. !
Hostilities upon our commerce are yet con- !
tinned. It was well known that changes '
had taken place in the French government
which had cot off all hope of reconciliation.
At that time there was a party in power fa
vorable to this country; but they had been
expelled, and the whole of the powers of
the government are now in the hand* of per
sons the molt hodile to thia country. Can !
it be said then, that the danger of our situ- j
ation i» diminished, or the neceflity of pro- I
vidiug for a possible eXpence lessened ? And
unless gentlemen were determined, when the ,
clouds grow blacker and blacker, ti>un- '
der is every moment expefted to break up- j
on our country, to dimini/h our means of |
proteftion and defence, he could not fee up
on what ground they could take away this
source of revenue. £7' he Speaker reminded
Mr. H. of the qitrjliorij. Mr. H. could not j
allsw that the house had all the information
which might be given on this fubjeft. The
extent bf the appropriations for the present
year was not known All the sums neces
sary had not yet been joted. There was a
great difference of opinion as to the extent
of some measures. Large sums, he said,
were r.cceffary foi arms, magazines, fortifi
cations, frigates, revenue cutters, SLc. and
until it could be determined how much was
to be expended upon thefc objefts, it could
not be ascertained what revenue would be ne
ceffarv. It was well known that our situa
tion with refpeft to France, grew honrly
more uncertain ; and until we knew what
was to be the iffne of this hufinefs, was it
prudent to throw out so large an item from
our revenue? Might we not have occaliori to
go much farther in fortifications—to raise
troops —an additional regiment of artillery,
to call into aftual service a considerable part
of the 80,000 militi.> which had been or
dered to be held in readiness—and to equip
gallics for the pioteftion of &c.
When gentlemen considered tnefe things, he
tru'ded they would at least, give time for
considering this vote. Knowing what had
taken phce in another branch of the legifla
tnre, he did not anticipate the vote, which
had been given, especially when it mull be
known that the ovjy effect which such a vote
could have, woulci be to increase the difcon
tente which may already exist in fuipe parjs
of the country-agiinil this law. He hoped
the decision would be podponed.
Mr. S. Smith believed the gentleman last
up did in»t anticipate the vote which had
been given, or he would not havt pressed
the fubjeft upon the house.
Mr. Coit was in favor of the podpone
ment, in order that the committee of ways
and means might, in the mean time make a
report on the fubjeft of the revenue.
Mr. Macon thought there was no
fity for poflponing a question which had
been fix weeks before the house. He tho't
much extrinsic matter had been introduced
into the difciiflion. He did not know what
this question had to do with the French go
vernment, or our refinance ; if it were ne
cessary, there was no doubt we (hould be
ready to icfilt oppreflion. The ttue reason
for wishing the podponement was, gentle
men expefted to be in a majority, and they
had found themfelvea in a minority ; as to
information, gentlemen did not yrant it foi
themfelvea, but for ether*, who voted for
the repeal, who themselves neither aflced
for it nor wanted it. This was only the
firft stage of the business, aid there would
be no want of opportunity for gentlemen
to discuss the fubjeft as much as thry pleat
ed, before the billpaffed. It was said the
law passed by a considerable majority ; but
since that time, Mr. M. said, gentlemen
had been with their constituents, and had
leifare to refleft upon th* fubjeft, and might
now fee reason to change their vote. He
had no deubt of the present revenue being
equal to the expenditure, and when more
wa* wanted, it would be time enough to
provide it ; and if more was wanted, he
thought a more eligible mode might be hit
upon than a (lamp-la*.
Mr. Sewall wa* in favor of the post
ponement. If he wa* ceitain the revenue to
t,e provided by this law wa* not wanted, he
should be in favor of the repeal ; but he
wa* not prepared to change his opinion, un
til he had more information on. the fubjeft.
He thought the friends of a repeal, ought
to be for the postponement, in order to give
time for gentlemen to be convinced of the
fact that this revenne is nnnecc flary. In that
cafe, the repeal would pass almost uuani
tnoufly. To fay this tax is unpopular, is i
dle and foolifh. It was true the people in
forae parts had got a whim of this fort, and
they speak of thi* law in the fame way as
of the British damp-tax, though it i* quite
a different thing. A majority of that hpufe
voting for a repeal must have a tendency to
increase that discontent which has a'ready
appeared against the law ; and if the se
nate should continue to aft as tiey have
done, fueh a vote would tend to cad an o
dium upon them as the cause of retaining
an aft which they do not like. He hoped
the postponement would be agreed to, par
ticularly as the gentleman from New-York
had alked for information on the fubjeft.
Mr. T. Claiborne was against the post
ponement. If we remained at peace we
did not want this tax j and if we were to
be engaged in war, it would be worse than
nothing as it would only serve to vex the
people, when all ought to be unanimous in
the common cause. The people in my
country, said he, abhor it; it is as obnox
ious to them at pot/on.
Mr. Gallatin said, with refpeft to the
information wanted by the gentleman from
New-York, he had already enough to vote
for a repeal of the bill, and if the ques
tion of postponement wa* loft, he doubted
not he would again vote for the repeal. He
observed that when this fubjeft was called
up, the gentleman from S. Carolina dated
the neceflity of going into it immediately
®n account of the three months notice ne
cessary to be given before the law takes ef
feft. So.that if a postponement three
weeks were to take place, it wouldbe im
pofGble the law could pass in time ; to car
ry this motion, therefore, would be a re
jeftion of the question. Mr. G. insisted
upon his former statement being correft with
refpeft to the money to be raised by the
stamp aft being intended to repay the loan
of 800,000 dollars. If it had been inten
ded to meet the expences of a foreign war,
the house would certainly not have Hopped
with a'ftamp and fait tax ; they would have
gone on to have raised something equal to
the demands which must have come againfl
the government, in fueh a result. But it
was said, the lituation of European affairs
is become still more alarming. He believ
ed it was impoflible for them to fay whether
our situation with refpeft to European
powers is worse or bttter than it was in the
ftimmer, as they had no information upon
which to depend ; and ftil! less did they
know whether the event of the expuliion ;
of certain members of the government would
tend to promote a general peace (which he
believed would insure our own) or lengthen
the war, and consequently endanger our
peace. It wa* poflible, that during the
present fnflion of congress, the situation of
the country may be such a? to induce the
house to raise a much larger revenue than
we have at present ; but this was no reason
for the house now to go into railing revenue
which is not wanted. Indeed it would be
an additional reason for repealing the aft,
as he conceived it would be proper in our
present situation, not only tq coofult the in
terclls of the people, hut their prejudices.
The gentleman from Maffachufett*' called
them whims. Let them be so. In the pre
sent situation of the courttry, however mis
taken were their ideas, to it was their
opinion that the aft should be repealed,
would be a strong reason with him for vot
ing its rc-peal. If he were to consult hi#
own opinion, he believed there were other
afts more opprefiive than the stamp aft
would be ; but, in all cases of taxation, he
was willing to facrifice. bis own opinion to
the public opinion. It wa) the duty of the
house to endeavor to correft the public o
pinion, where they thought it wrong ; but
at present, he believed, it would be bed,
in a good degree, to consult it ; as the aft
was fufficient to create disgust to the go
vernment, without being very effeftual.
£ Thefpcaher reminded Mr. G. of the qurJlion.~\
Mr. G. remarked that though a vote had
been taken in favor of continuing the tax
in the other branch of the legislature, that
vote, on a future day's might, from a con
viftion of its impropriety, be reversed.
What had been said about a land tax, he
looked upon as a mere threat, as he did not
suppose any such question would come be
fore the house at the present session.
Mr. Varnum called for the yeas and
nays upon this question.—Agreed.
Mr. N. Smith said the gentleman from
Pennsylvania had told the house that the
gentleman from New-York had already vo
ted far the repeal, and that he doubted not
he would do so again, and that therefore he
had no need of information. Should they,
then r force gentlemen to vote before they
are prepared-? He always thought it wat
their bufineft to inform and be informed, and
come to a temperate result ; and when thiv
wat done, the opinion of the majority was
the Politual Standard. But, instead of thia,
the gentleman from Pennsylvania made him
felf the political standard ; at if a member
was not prepared to vote, he would forct
him to vote unprepared. This was not an
upinion which he could fubferibe to. Mr.
S. said, he asked for a postponement on hi*
own account. He was one of those who,
if convinced that our present revenue will
meet our present expencei ; and that our
revenue wilL not decrease, nor our cxpenees
increase, and that there will be a surplus re
maining to meet the demands which will be
■ made upon ut in 1801, he would moll hear
' tily vote for the repeal. And if thi* were
the ground upon which gentlemen voted the
repeal, instead of a bare majority, they
would bave a unauimops vote. But could
any one fay, that our present revenue it e
qual ;o our present expence ? Could any one
fay that cur revenue will not or
our expencei increase ? they cannot,
when there it so uuch uncertainty with ref
peft to our foreign relation!. When we
kno(* not whst"a day nny bring forth—
when we cannot tell but that such depreda- '
tions may be committed upon our commerce
a* may greatly decrease our revenue*, and
(hat necessary preparations for our defence
may vastly increaTe ourexpepces. Was this,
then, a fit nation for repealing a law forrai
fing revenue ? He thought not, ; he hoped,
therefore the question would be postponed ;
and, in the meantime, it was probable some
information would be received on the fuf>-
jest of our foreign relations. But it was
said, this a<ft was unpopular, and because
of our dangerous situations, the opinions
of the peoplt ought eo be consulted, whe
ther well or ill founded. No man wonld
fopner conflilt the opinions of the people
than he, when they were founded with deli
beration ; but it was dangsrovi? in the ex
treme to meet the opinions of the people
when prematurely formed. What did the
petition which had been received, fay ? It
fay the aft was unpopular ; but that
it was copied from an aft of a foreign na
tion, and that it was an aiit which had giv
en offence when attempted to be imposed by
a foreign eountry. These were reasons
which no gwcleman would urge for the re
peal ; and he was convinced when the en
lightened people of America came to exa
min« the fubjeft, that this tax would be as
agreeable to them as any other tax. It would
be found that not only the British, but the
French nation had a tax of this kind ; and
d/fil it was a popular tax wherever it was
Saopted.
Mr. J. Wilham! had seldom known
pbjeftions made to the postponement of a
fubjeft so important as the present. If the
gentleman from Pennsylvania by
this means to f*curc his vote, he would vote
against him, and he was seldom in the habit
of votiag with him. The arguments of
gentlemen againfl the postponement were so
contradiftory, that he thought when they
came to review them, they would thera
felvesbe in favour of the motion. It was
said by the gentleman from Pennsylvania
that it was neceflary to give way to popular
opinion. If this argument had not hereto
fore been nfed, the refourees of the country
would have been applied to some years ago,
and our debt paid off. Gentlemen them
selves confefs thjit the people who complain
against the (lamp-law have no cause to com
plain against it, as it is not calculated to
affeft them. The yeomanry of the coun
try, therefore, only wanted time to consider
it, in order to be reconciled to the ftamp
law ; they would always aft right when
time was given them for refleftion, and their
good sense would t*ach them, on cool rc
; fleftion, that they would be benefited by the
! aft, provided a repeal, would produce a land
tax.
Mr. Giles said,• the fubjeft had been
called up by the chairman of the commit
tee of ways and means, himfelf, so that he
niuft have conceived the house ready to vote
upon it. One of the questions, indeed, re
ported by the committee of the whole, had
already been decided ; but when the second
was about to be taken, the yeas and nays
were called, and previous information was
said to |be neeefTary. If information was
really wanted, there would be time enough
to obtain it, before the bill paflfed ; it was
futile, he said, to put off the deciiion upon
the limb of a proportion which had already
been afted upon. Mr- G denied that this
stamp-ast had any thing to do with our fo
reign relations, indeed when the chairman
of the committee of ways and means' firft'
rofe,he did not so consider it. He was him
felf upon the committee of ways and means
when this law was agreed upon ; but he ne
ver heard fueh a thing fnggefted. If war
was apprehended, and this tax was meant
to furnifh a part of the expcHce, he desired
gentlemen tolook at itsinfignificancy to such
an_objeft. Indeed, he believed if such a
state were to take place, this tax would do
more harm by the diffatiafaftion which it
would excite against government, than the
money it would raise would do good ; but
he was certain it had never been considered
in any other light than as a peace arrange
ment.
A motion was made for adjournment and
negatived 57 to 38.
Mr Sitoreaves said, al the gentleman
from Virginia seemed pleased with the noti
cing afts of inconsistency, he would furnifh
him with another ; for, though he had spo
ken against the postponement, he should
vote in favour of it. He should do this for
three reasons; firft; as thereafon which he
gave for believing that a lengthy difcufiion
was unnecessary, had been declared out of
order, he supposed it would be out of
order to aft upon it; the second was because
! gentltmen appeared afraid of a postpone
ment; and the third was, because the yeas
aud nays were called, and when that was
the cafe, he wilhed to appear on the fame
row with his friends;
t The question on tbe postponement for
three weeks was then taken by yeas and
mays (as stated in our minute) and negatived
52 to 41.
Mr. Allen then moved au adjournment,
which was negatived 49 to 43.
Mr. Gordon moved the postponement of
the question for a week.
Mr. Brooks called for the yeas and nays
upon this question, which was decided to
be so taken by 18 members rising, which
were decided to be one fifth of the whole
number ptcfent.
The yeas and nays were then taken, and
were the fame as before,, except that Meflrs.
Bullock, GilUfpie, and Grove, who voted
in the negative of the last question, voted in
affirmative of this, which made the num
bers (land 49 to 44.
Mr. Sitgreaves again moved an ad
journment, which was negatived 43 votes
being only in ita favour."
Mr. Gordon then went into some obser
vations against the repeal. He-did not
think because the law was obnoxious "to a
few people, that it ought to be repealed;,
nor did he think because some gentlemen
stated the law as operating unequally, was
a good reason for repealing i'. A convic
tion of this kind ought to lead gentleman to
endeavour to make the law more e?fbal, and
not to repeal it. He acknowledged thatlhe
had not made due use of the information
within his power; for he was not fufficient
ly informed to vote upon the fubjeft, and
therefore he wilhed to have it postponed.
He begged gentlemen to consider in what
view they would hold up Congress to the
world, if they made and unmade laws in
this way. No dependence could be placed
upon the consistenCy of their proceedings;
every law thac was at all difpleafng to any
part of the community, would be constant-
Iy expefted to be repealed. He should, at
present, be compelled to vote agsiiift the re
peal, though if time were given for au en
quiry into the fubjeft, he might vote 111 fa
vour of it.
Mr. Sprague said, the fubjeft had been
before the houfelix weeks, whichhe thought
was fufficient time for members to have
made themselves acquainted with the fub
jeft. He should vote for the repeal, from
the evidence which had beed laid before him
of the fufficieney bf our revenue for our exr
penfe6, and that the stamp-tax was unnecessa
ry. It was"upon this ground, that he voted.
Mr. Allen again moved an adjourn
ment, which was negatived, there being on
ly 30 votes for it. ,
Mr. Coit spoke againlt the repeal He
considered the question as a choice between
a stamp and a land tax, and in this point
os-view he thought it important.
Mr. Tbatcbsr was afraid that a reason would
operate in the repeal of this law, which wasde
rogatory to the legislature of the United States—
which was, a prejudice tgainf tbe found »f Stamp-ett ;
, for all acknowledged that this law bore no fem
( b'ance to the «afe which had given rife to the ha
tred of a fianip-afl. This plea prejudice had
frequently been brought before the houfc. He re
collected that in the year 1789, when it was pro
pefed to by a duty on goods imported, a gentle
man from Georgia entertained the house a long
time with urging this plea on behalf of his condi
ments against a duty on powder, as the pet*
pie of Qeorgia were fond of thediverfion »f Jhaot
ing ri(t-lirdi; but that prejudice was overcome, the
law was palled, astd it wa. found a good on*. No
foener wai an excise proposed, thau thi house was
again told of this prejudice ; but it was now ad
mitted, that the tax was a good one, and the pre
judice was overcome. About four years ago, an
additional duty was pr»pofed upon the importation
of iron ware ; when it was objeifted that there
was a strong prejudice ii iavor of imported 4«1
aid wfk All thtfe prejudices had, in their turn,
died away ; and he hoped the present would be
permitted to hay its exit in the fame way. As to
the law optrating principally upon merchants,ban
keu, hucksters, &c. he was/glad of it; he wilhed
all '.axes principally to operate upon them, beca.fe
they could moll cafily fnrnifli the money to pay
them. As fr> the reason given for the repeal that
cur revenue wa« fufficient for every demand against
it, he was not aflured of this; he wilhed to retain
this law until he saw the issue of our present litu
ation.
Another question wai taken for adjournment,
and fcegatived, there being «nly 31 votes for it.
Mr. HARPea tlieu moved for a postponement
till to-morrow. Me did not m kc this motion with
a view of obtaining a different vote ; but hecaufe
the difcufiion had com ion unexpectedly ; for, tho'
hiinfcll had called up the fubjed, he did not expe<st
a de!>ate upon it. He thought the prefTurc fer
the qutflion had bern in this e,.fe unprecedented.
Mr Gits s said there had been already attempts
enough to get rid of the question ; ha hoped this
would meet with tbe fame fate with the others.
Mr. ALi.BN spoke in favor of the postponement;
he pledged his honor that he wanted information
on the fuVjedt.
Mr Dana urged the propriety of the postpone
ment, as this question went to decide the princi
ple.
Mr. Sitcreaves hoped this postponement would
take place, that if gentlemen were refufed an op
portunity to think up«n the fubje&, they might at
lead have an oppportunity to speak upon it. It
was a thing unprecedented in that house, when a
member deelared he wanted information, or wilh
ed to deliver his fer.timents upou a question, to re
fufe a poftpoiiement of its deciiion. He aiked whe
ther this request was not peculiarly reafonabie od
the present oceafion ? Some gentlemen had ftaied
that their reaforis for voting for the repeal of this
law was because it was unpopular. Was it rcsfon
able, therefore, to ffut gentlemen in a situation of
opposing popular opinions, without giving them
leave to exprefsthe grounds upon which they a&-
d t He complained of this fort of treatment. He
should certainly vote against the repeal; he did not
himfelf want information ; he had no hefitatlon
on his mind with refpeik to his vote ; but he had
a desire to explain the reasons upon which he ailed. 1
Mr. Vaunum said the gentleman last up com
plained without ground. He and those who vot
ed with him did not want rime or information in
the morning ; it was only fincc they found they
were in a minority that this want was discovered.
Mr. Csamplim had no ohjeikion to a postpone
ment of the deciiion till to-morrow.
fylr. Nicholas could net consent t« a postpone
ment of tkis question, because the means used to
put off the deufion hid been unprecedented. The
rcafonft given for it by the gentleman from Penn
sylvania could not prevail with any one. He con
fcffes he does not want information ; and he will
have full opportunity to give his opinion to the
public befor# the bill pafies. With rcfpevfl to gen
tlemen *iot being he thought it a curious
thing. They were prepared to vote until the yeas*
and nays were called for; but when these were
called, they wanted information.
Mr Bkooks spoke in favor of a postponement.
and condemned the want of candor ia gentlemen
perfiiling to take the question before gentlemen
were prepared to vote. Was this conduct, he a(k
ed> intended to give encouragemcn to the fitting
up <-;f iVbiJkey and Liberty Pola ? It looked like it.
\_ tbi Speahr calltd to trier
Mr. S. Smith alked who prevented gentlemen
from giving their reasons upen this fubjeft ? Had
not thvy themselves prevented the main question
being brought into view by continual motions to
pcfyone and to adjourn ? Most alluredly they had.
If they had gone into a difcu.ffion of the merits of
the qutllicfti at firft, three hours might have been
spent in the liifcuflion.
After fcveral other observations, the question
for postponement till to-morrow, was taken and
negatived 46 to 41.
The question was then taken by yeas aud nays,
on agreeipgto the following resolution :
" Rcfolved, that tbe committee of ways and meant bt
infruQed ti report a bitl to repeal tie aft laying a duty on
Jlamped %/ellum, parch went and paper
And it wat carried 5 2 to 36 ' The lift of yeas
and nays appeared in our paper of Tuesday.
Adjonrced.
WEDNESDAY FE»R*UARY 28.
The bill so* ere&ing a light house and
placing certain buoy* in placts therein men
tioned, was read the third time and pafTed.
Mr. Livingllon from the committee of
commerce and manufactures, reported a bill
for the; relief of sick and diseased feamcn,
and a bill declaring the crnifrnt of Cengrefs
to an aft of the state of Massachusetts, ia
refpeft to certain piers, which were com
mitted to committees of the whole.
Mr. Van Alen from the committee ap
pointed to enquire whether any and what
alteration! are necessary ip the law providing
for the payment of the public debt, made
a report which was committed for to-mor
row.
Mr. D. Foster from the committee of
claims made an unfavorable report on the pe
tion of John Franklin, who prayed forcom
penfation for certain supplies furnifhed dur
ing the war, which was concurred in.
Mr. Livingfton moved that the petition
of Aquilla,Giles, agent for furdry inhabi
tants-os Long Island, presented in the year
1791, and reported upon by Secretary of
the Treasury in 1792, be referred .to the
committee of claims—Agneed.
Mr. Harper moved that the unfinished
bulinefs might be poftpo»ed for the purpofc
of taking up the bill for repealing the stamp
aft, as', if it were to be repealed, the foon<
er it was known the better, that the exp'en
five preparations which were going on for
carrying it into effeft, might be Hopped j
and if it were to ge into effeft, the loonet
i.t was so determined the better.
The question was carried, and the house
accordingly went into a committee of the
whole on this bill, hut reported it without
debate or amondment. The house took it
up, and on the question's being put for paff-'
ing the bill to a third rtading.
Mr. Isaac Parker called for the yeas and
nays ; but upon its being suggested by Mr.
Harper and Mr. Sitgreaves, that it wsuld
be best to take them on the passing of the
bill, the motion was withdrawn.
Mr. Lyon renewed it.
The question was put for taking the ques
tion by yeas and nays, but 16 members oa
ly appearing in favor ef it (which wtre not
one fifth of the number present, which is
necessary) it was not carried.
Mr. Harper moved that the bill be read
a third time to-day, fdf- the rcafons he had
mentioned. Had gentlemen who were in
favot of the repeal, permitted a difcuflion of
the fubjeft before the principle was.fettled,
he flionld have been glad to have delivered
his sentiments upon it. For this purpose,
he had desired a delay of twenty-four hours,
but the requtfft was refufed ; this having
been the cafe, he ftould not now, fines the
principle had been decided, go into any ob
servations again ft the measure. He hoped,
therefore, the bill would be read a third time
immediately.
Mr. Baldwin proposed that this bill should
be read a third time to-morrow.
The question was taken on the mod dis
tant day, and negatived 51 to 40.
The question for reading the hill a third
time to-day was carried.
It was accordingly read the third ti%ie,and
the question on passing, was taken by yeas
and nays as follow :
TEAS.
MelTrs. Baer, Baldwin, Baird, Blount,
Bryan, Burgess, Cabell,, Champlin, Chap,
man, T. Claiborne, W. C. Claiborne, Clay,
Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, Elmendorf, Find
ley, Fowler, Gallatin, Giles, Gillefpie,
Gregg, Grove, Haana, Harrifon, Havens,
Heiiier, Holmes, Livingfton, Locke, Ly
on, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, Mill
edge, New, Nicholas, Skinner, S. Smith,
W. Smith, Sprague, Sprigg, Stanford,
Sumpter/Tillinghaft, A. Trigg, J. Trigg,
Varnum, Venable, J. Williams, R. JWilli
ams—sl.
N A r s.
Meffis. Allen, Bartlett, Bayard, Brooks,
Bullock, Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana,
Dent, Evans, A. Foster, D. Foster, J.
Freeman, N. Freeman, Glen, Goodrich,
Gordon,Grifwoki, Harper, Hindman, Hof
mer, Imlay, Machir, Matthews, Morgan,
Morris, Otis, Isaac Parker, Reed, Rut
ledge, Schureman, Sewall, Shepard, Sin
nickfon, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Thatcher,
Thomas, Thompson, Van Allen, Wadf
worth—42.
Mr. came in after his name wa»
called, and withed to have his name inserted
againlt the repeal, but not being in the house
tp atffwcr to his name, this was not allow
ed.
Before the house rose, a message was re
ceived from the Senate, informingthem, that
the Senate had resolved that the bill for re
pealing the stamp aft jleauld notfajs.
The honfe then again resolved itfelf into
a committe of the whole on the bill provid
ing the means of intereourfe with foreign
nations; when Messrs. Coit, Imlay, and
Thatcher, spoke against Mr. Nicholas's a
mendment, and Mr. S. Smith and Mr. Ma
con in favor of it—A (ketch of the debate
will be given. Adjourned.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At Chefnut-ftreet Wharf,
On Monday, the sth March next, at 11 o'clock,
The following Articlt 5, saved from the wreck
of the (hip John, and foid for the benefit of
the concerned :
Ii Bolts of Canvass 1 Main Top Sail
I Fore Sail 1 Mam Top Gil. Sail
1 Fore Top Sail 1 large new Cable
1 Jib ,5 bbts. of Pork
144 Sheets of Copper Half a bbl. Beef
1 Jhip Bell A few bbls. Flour, Peas
ar.d Bread
A quantity of Chain Bolts, Rin;s, and fun
dryjron, with a large aflbrtmem of all kinds of
Rigging, Blocks, Hooks and Eyes and Thim
bles, tec.
1 frnali Copper Boilers 3c Water Calk*
4 Compass 7 Glass Windows
a Lanthorns 1 Towline
11 Spars 1 Hawser
1 Iron Camboufe A quantity old Junk
I bbl. Tar I large Wh»el
1 bbl. Coppef Nails 1 small Anchor .
3a boxes Window Glass 3 old Cables 'V i
45 draws ot Tumblers 1 theft with Medfi;. '
1 brass Stove 1 bbls. Pork
1 Tables 3 Chairs
And sundry other articles.
William Shannon £s* Co. Aud,
Feb. »8« dtsmX!)c (gazette, f;
PHIL A DELPHI A, q
THURSDAY EVENING, Mjkch I. dc
At a late hour last evening we received London 1° !
Piper* mp to the 3d of January, brought hy the tri
brig Miry, captain Earle, 48 days from D®ver, m ,
at which port she touched «n her pafTage frum
Hamburg : from them we have made the fol-.
lowing extra<Si m
We do no not find a word of the American Com- Co
miflioners i captain Earle, however, fays, that te<
lliey remained at '-'aris at the date of the latell J„
accounts reeeiveJ in England, unaccepted by the
Ftoflch government, and that th« defignsot that
government agair.il thij country appeared to be P'
of a very'ferious nature. (A D. Ait ) th
E
VIENNA, Dec. ij. of
Theemperor has been pleased to appoint 21
has royal highness the archduke Charles, ec
governor and captain geseral of the kingdom 3c
of Bohemia.
Wehavejuft received information that ar
10,000 Imperial troops took pofTefiion of ar
•the city of Venice on the 9th inft. hi
- "y<
RASTADT, Dec. 14. w
It is not true that a Ruffian deputy hat I:
arrived at Carlfruhe, on his way here. ol
Count Goertz, the Prussian tninifter arri
ved here ytfterday. c;
Yesterday the French minifttrs delivered nc
tl\eir full powers to count. Metternich. This yi
minister, in confiderdtion of the fituationof E
-Mentz, it is fai'd, is to make use of hixgood
officers. Ingolftadt is not evacuated by the "I
Imperiaiifts, as has been reported. la
The king of Prufiia as t« aft as media- tl
tor between the German empire and the tr
French republic.
UPPER-RIJINE, Dec. 16. tl
In the Swiss countries bordering on Italy S
t|>er evolutionary spirit is still spreading. In o
the canton of Appenzel, a great fermenta* if
rion exists. The reformed protestants who
make two-thirds of the inhabitants, have g
nominated a committee of jo members to t 1
revise and adopt the necessary "changes in ei
the existing laws. The Great Council ef it
the canton is to give an account of their ad- t;
ministration once a year. The fitting of this it
committee has hitherto been stormy in the
extreme, andtherehas been some diflurbance
in the country places.
Count Provence, according to report, \
will very shortly leave Blankenbourg. vi
FRANCKFORD, Dec 16. o
It is said that to-morrow the French will p
fend several thoufsnd more men into Mertz. £
—Yesterday evening the English commiffio- p
ner, Crawfurd, died at Hanau.
It is said that the Austrian commandant
of Ehrenbreitftein refufes to surrender ihat c
jortrefs to the French general Hardy, who c
has also been inftrudted not to persist in his >
demand for its surrender. '
MILAN, Dec. 5. <
Sixteen thousand French and 800 Clf a
alpines are in the neighbourhood of Piacenza 1
probably with the intention of extending
the boundaries of our 1 republic as far as Pot
at the expence of the duke of Parma, who, t
it seems, is to be violently Gripped of all
his territory on the left shore of that river.
The king of Naples is again recruiting 1
his army, in consequence of having the '
French, what he considers, as too near «
neighbours in the Venetian islands.
CREMONA, ( Italy, ) Nov. 27. '
The Citizen Pino, having taken pr.flef- 1
fion of all the country bordering on the
Cisalpine Rupublic, on the left fide of the
Po, published a proclamation, in which he
declares,
1. That it is incorporated in future with
the Cisalpine Republic, ft having been pof
fefTtd by the Duke of Parma by manifeft
usurpation, and contrary to the rights of
nations.
2. That all perCun pofTefT-d of Parmesan
effefts shall under pain of military execution
surrender or make declaration of it to the
Commandant of the Cisalpine troops with
in fpaceof 24 hours.
3. That all the public Fuu&ionaries of
Parma are displaced, and succeeded by a
central Adminiftratiou of the Upper Po, re
fident at Cremona.
4. That all persons by the
Parmesan Government, who wish to remain,
(hall make a declaration of attachment to
republican principles, and remain ao longer
in office.'
5. That all marks of slavery and feudal
armorial bearings, be removed in 24 hours.
6. That every man, under his personal
responsibility, (hall disuse the Parmesan,
and mount the tri-colored coekade.
7. That, on the arrival of the Cisalpine
iroops, the tree of liberty (hall be planted
in every diftrrtt.
LONDON, December 25.
Advice has been received at the Hague,
from Peterfburgh, that the Emperor ac
knowledges the debt of 72,000,000 which
Poland and Russia «we Holland, and will
pay the interest.
The remain* of the late king of Prussia
were buried with great pomp at Berlin on
the tft inft.
The king of Sardinia has presented gen
eral Buonaparte with a fine saddle horse,
(hod with filter ; the bridle, 4cc. being or-
Bamented with diamonds.
Last week one «oach-maker in Long-acre
discharged 32 journeymen ; and last Satur
day night upwards of 40 others itl the fame
' street were driven from employ. Such are
•'.ready the effed* of the new a fit fled tax
scheme.
Colonel Ne(bit is appointed commander
in chief as the British troops in St. Do
mingo. That part of the regiment ot
Hompefch, which! is in the Isle of Wight,
as well as that which is at present in Portu
gal, fire to reinforce our troops iri that col
ony.
General Abercromby, the new cothman- j the
der in chief in Ireland, has begun a pro- fja'
je£led system of economy bv the abolition , wa
of the post of Quarter-Master General. |
General Cradock is to be otherwise provi- JOl
ded for. nii:
Sir Ralph Abercromby has fixed on Ath- of
lone for his head-quarters, as the moreen- lati
trical part of Ireland, which is to be for
med into four grand divisions, each being enr
subdivided and properly officered, all com- , of
municating with him ; to facilitate which
communication, telegraphs are to-be erec- j Itx
ted between Athlone and the ports most like- vef
ly to be att eked by the French. vet
We have heard it reported for some days
past, though we cduld not credit it, that de<
the return made to the tax office, of the fin'
Duke of Bedford's servants, was very short tw
of the number. It is now ascertained that re£
25 of his Grace's servants were never enter- ma
ed, and he has been fined in the penalty of
300!. th<
Herfchell has again, it is said, predi&ed wi
another severe, but short froft, in January tio
and February. The late wet season certainly sea
hears a strong resemblance to thlt of three is :
"years ago, when Et»n and Staines Bridges
were for some time inipafiable, and when thi
Herfchell wonderfully foretold the duration of
of that long froft almost to a day. lia
The Tifiphone man of war of 20 guns, Hi
capt. Honeyman, was'fafe arrived in the loi
mouth of the Elbe, to receive on board the oir
young Prince of Orange, on his return to H
England. m«
According to the last accounts from ha
Toulon, all the (hips in that port are to be Y(
laid up, in order to employ the seamen in tui
the intended expedition against this coun
try. ex
The French have a squadron of five (lout G
frigates at Havre, ready to co-operate in he
the reduftion of our naval establishments at as
St. Marcou. The admiralty have recently if
ordered a detachm*tit of marines to those ca
Islands. ft'
Various aitielec in the Vienna and Italian a
gazettes mention, that an English fleet, of
twelve fail of the line has been seen at the ar
eutianceof the Adriatic Sea ; but aecord- th
ing to other accounts, these have been mis- ar
taken for the French Venetian fleet return- Pi
ing to Toulon. w
ASSESSED TAXES. fa
Thursday last a meeting took place at
Warwick, by appointment of the Mayor, at
which had for its obje£l an opposition to the m
AfTeffcd Tax Bill. Severalftrongrefoluti- p;
ons were entered into against the Minister's hi
plan, and thanks were given to Sir John fc
Stuckburgh Evelyn for his opposition t,o the di
principle of the measure., hi
A meeting of the Ward of Farringdon IV
Within was on Saturday held at the Blue- Ii
coat Hall, Chrill't Holpital, to take into w
consideration the grievousconfeqtiences like- tl
ly to result from the assessed tax bill, (hould
it be fuffeied to beceme the law of the land, g
when strong resolutions were entered into, si
similar to those pafled by the other Ward F
and Parish meetings in different parts of.the ei
metropolis. o
Strong resolutions against the principle of
the new tax were also entered into on Sa- c<
turday by the-ward of Cheap.
December 30.
The British Cabiuet are at this moment r
in considerable confternatien for the fate of b
Hanover, and the newly puichafed baroni- *
al territories thereunto annexed.
Prom Lioro's List.
Arrived—Patty, , from New-York a
af'Briftol ; the Abigail, Hammond, from : c
Charleston, at Plymouth ; the Lucretia, ti
Seabourg, from Charleston, at Clyde.
January 1. £
We onSaturday laid before our readers a j
very important State Paper, containg the ; ( .
basis of the Treaty of Peace to be concluded ! j.
at Raftadt. We know that a copy of this I t
paper was transmitted from Hamburgh to t
: Mr. Pitt, immediately on its having been re- '
ceived there from Paris. It was sent from
1 thence, txprtfs, to several of the principal (
1 people of hamburgh. ,
This paper wa< preceded by the following '
note from Paris. 1
" Herewith you receive ( a copy of the ba- <
f sis, containing the Articles of Peace, fixed '
i on at Udine and CampoFormio. You may
hasten the publication, in order to let the
Germans know what they aretoexpefl.—
- The firft news from the Congrefsat Raftadt 1
, will convince you of the authenticity of this
3 State Paper."*
r We this morning received a letter from
Falmouth, dating that a captain belonging
1 to Sir Edward Pelew'i squadron, had land
1. Ed in Mount's Bay with intelligence that a
il French squadron was at sea, accompanied
i, by a number of transports, having 50,000
men on board, bound partly for the Scilly
c islands, and partly for the North of Ireland,
d We think it our duty to inform our readers
of this intelligence, if it were for 110 other
reason than to prevtnt any unnecefTaryalarm
by its coming to them through any lets
t, guarded chanael, assuring there at the fame
time, thai after every enquiry within our
h power, we have reason to believe that there
H is no truth whatever in the report.
It will be seen by our repert of the Par
ia liamer.tary proceedings of Saturday, that
in tne regular military force of the country is
about to receive an augmentation from the
n- fupplemeutary militia, ef at lead 20,*00
e, men.
r- The Senate of Hamburgh have ordered
the bank of that city to be shut up till Sun-'
re day the 15th of January after Divine Ser
r- vice, when business is to be refumedjas usual.
ne A letter from Calais of the 25th ult.
re states—" Three fnperior Officers of Engi
ix neers lately arrived here, and pafled the
whole night at the house of the Command
er ant of the town. Their arrival is thought
o- to have the descent for its objeft. As soon
ot as they had finifhed their bulinefs, they left
it, the town without making their appearance
u- in public.
ol* Tippoo by the last accounts, was fuppo
frd 1c 'dly to aid and abet the rciiftance of
f the Raiah, a»d it was this circumstance that
gave rife to the report that Tippoo liimfelf
1 was in arn s.
The printing of Mr. Exeter , a j
Journal was difcontinucd on Monday fc'll. fy
nipht; this is'the second paper, in the thi
ps England, that has fallen a facrifice to the |"i
late additioeal (lamp duty. I 1
According to a Proclamation ifTued atVi.
enna, the haven of Chiozzi, in the Gulph j jjh
, of Venice, is declare*! a free p"Vt. iti
The whole of the homeward bound Weft fin
I India fleet have now arrived, exeepting one P'
1 vessel belonging to London, and one to Li- '
verpoel.
A man of war brig, of 14 guns, comman
ded by lieut. Hollingworth, wasfome nights
since furprrfed and boarded by the crews of fro
two French row-boats, and after a gallant boi
reCflance, carried into Bologne. The com- P u
mander we learn has loft one of his legs. ln
The Vanguard, of 74 guns, on board of j
the Sir H. Nelson, who is to be entrusted ,}, £
with some secret and enterprifiug expedi
tion is to hoist his flag, will be ready for
sea in the course of the enftting week. She
is at present in the Medway.
A private letter from Berlin, received by 111
the last mail, gives the following account t0
of the late King of Pruffia—Fwderic Wil
liam the Third promises to be a great King isc
He is of a'moft excellent difpefition; and a wa
■ lover of military exercises. He is an econ- ca l
• omift, and a model for good hudtands.— ■
■ His table is frugal, and "he livrs quite do
mesticated with his eonfort, for whom he
1 has the mod sincere love. The Duchess of -■
York, his fitter/eems to inherit Gmilar vir
-1 tuen.
The king of Prussia now appeari in the
exalted charaflerof moderater between the ■=
i Germanic body and the French Republic; E
) he is thus placed in a very criticalfituaiion,
t as the terms for which he means to stipulate,
r if not exceeded to, are probably such as he
- cannot in honor fee them violate with a
ftriiggrle in their defence This may lead to fr
1 a rupture between him and France. o]
f It appears that the Cifalpiue Republicans It>
e are apt scholars of their mailers the French jui
- their territory wants a little more rounding, ! A
and therefore the pofieifions of the duke of j tc
- Parma are to be included in the ring fence I ni
which has been chalked out by the political 1 ft
geographers, in violation of all national
faith!. j
t Advices received overland from Bengal p
, and Bombay, give ttoe molt favorable state- 1*
e meats of the general prosperity of the com- ri
- pany's affairs. The investment at Bengal ti
s had been encreafed above 20 'Lacks. A e
1 formidable force was in preparation at Ma
e dras against the Manillas, confiding of a- [
bove Bouo troops, under the command «f
n Major Gen. Sir James Craig. Te» of the
Indiamen were to affifl as /hips of war. It 1
o was pivfumed this armament left the coast
> the latter end of August. • t
d Letters from Bombay, dated Sept. 5,
1, give the pleasing intelligence, that the in- ii
>, furredlion in the Coitoile country, by Jthe n
d Phyche Rajah, had been completely quell- 1
ie ed, by the judicious and able interference f
of Governor Duncan. 1
>f Accounts from Colombo, state the £de- f
1- cease of Major General Doyle. I
January 2. <
By the last conveyance from Germany, a vet
it ry important state paper, a copy of which will 1
as be given in our next, was received through a ,
very authentic, though not an official channel, j
It purports t»be the basis of the peace to be con- ,
eluded between France and the empire at Jfcaf
tadt, containing the chief articles agreed upon '
at Campo Formio, which are to be ratified at the '
m ; congress The voucher for its authenticity i» 1
1, the celebrated profeflar Bufch, by whom it is ' j
dated to have betn framed, under the orders ot ,
the dircAory. By this interefline paper it will | i
be Teen that the King of Great-Britain, and the
a Duke of York, are to be difpoflt-fled of their : '
le i rontinental dominions, tad that the French re- j
-d ! public, and the Great German Potentates, mean j 1
lis lodifmember and partitif.a out awheir wil the
to territories of the l-.rtle states principalities— ;
■ e , France it to have tlie Khine for its boundary, j
im and is to obtain, besides, the peffcffioa of Ehren
, bieitflciii, and some other important fortrelTei
a oh the right bank ofthe river; and the vhole
o- the Ecclesiastical dates are to be secularized.
"g The subordinate dil'politions of this gigantic
plan affurd a provifinu for mod of ihe petty prin
>a- c#s, and even the ci devant Stadtholder is not
ed forgotten; the Eleflor of Hanover, and the Ee
clrfndual Princes only, ferm to be threatened
with the entire lols of their polTefrions.—
*1 he corquered territories 10 be ceded to
- France will be divded into eight departments,
idt to he entitled du Mont Tonnere, du Mozele et
his Khin, du Handfruck, de Saar et Mozelie, de Mo
ztlle et Rhine, de I'Eyfel, de la Roer, and de
Koeret Meufe. The whole plan is said to have
the full fandtiou of his Imperial majesty ; and
n j> from the retreat of the Audrian troops from the
Rhine, and the entry of the French into the
t a towns which they abandon,it appears to la ra
ied pidly approaching towards its accompliflia ent
i OO Ihe present situation of affairs in the French
j||_ metrapolis is said ro be such, that immediate
/ and important chariges are inevitable ; tach of
the hodile factions croud Paris with their parti-i
e " fans, and under pretext of augmenting the le
her »; el i n the Wedern Provinces, draw from the
irm frontiers, towards the capital, such corps as they
left conlider affe<Seed to their refpedtrve interefis.— I
me The army in general is devoted to Barras and
his colleagues. Rtubel and his sanguinary
OUF ciate have a dec ded miijority in the citizens ot
I<re Paris, f» great indeed, that Buonaparte, from
considerations te his personal fafety, was pre
'ar- ventsd from appearing in the public streets.
hat The COl oner's inquest, held on the body of
yis colonel Fitzgerald, after he was (hot, brought
jjj e in their vtrrdiA, that he died by'a pidol foot
from lord Kingden, in the prefenes us his fun
and valet.
January 3.
fed A man, on Saturday, was taken into custody
iun- at the Browo Bear, Bow-dreet, harged wi'h
Ser- d J the King, and laying, if he and Pitt!
ual. were both hung, it would be a gtod thing for
i. this country. Me was admitted to bail, hrml'elf
U . in fifty pounds, and two furetus in sorts pounds
n S'- each/
the
ind- PORTSMOUTH Dee. 14.
ight Friday failed the Flora, with R«ar-Admiia
"oon Frederick's flag, to-j. in Lord St Vincent, ac
left « : "«t>.'ried with the Warrior of 74 guns, Etha
lion frivate, in the Mediterranean trade.
»nce '
FALMOUTH, D'crmber ;o.
?P°* Arrived the American (hip Brother*, v, r\
se of leaky, capjaih Henderfon, from < Ph ladelph a,
s
' iii 49 days, bound t* Amltei-dam, !ad*fl with j an
- cofTec aud sugar. I ,- v
December 31. '
Arrived hii Majesty's packet Carteret, cap-
tain Taylor, mll nays from New-York. On .
Friday the 19th ult. the Carteret was chiced in J"
the chops o thr channel bya (hip, who,alrerehac- w '
ihg (he Carteret from five in the morning 111 ol
three o'clock P. M. got within a mile of her. Pr
'at which time a (quail came on j which laid the >n
(hip on her beam end.i, when (he immediately j, a
j filled and went down ; and although the-Carte- an
let immediately hove alv>M, could not save a „
finale person, or fee aay thing float from her— na
Paflengers in the Carteret, capt. Palmer, Mr, : tie
Temple, Mr. Warmly and Son, Mr. Swire int
and Mr. Groenway. Ed
PLYMOUTH, December 3 «.
• Came in the American (hip Abigail, of ind
from Chadefton, Gardner Hammond mailer, '" !
bound to Hamburgh, laden with sugar, (he is th,
put in here to repair the damages (he received tru
in the late gales «f wind.
I hwrfdiy night 2 very hot press broke otit in
this port, when many men were picked up by
the boats from the (hipi in this harbour. p ()
DUBLIN. December *6. Se
This day arrived tight transports from Liver
pool, with the horse-artillery, for the defence of
this country, which are all landed fafe. er;
The (hip Draper, Mark Collin*, mailer,bound Jj)
to New-York, arrived fafe at that port on the
6th of November lad, and we understand is load-
ing back for that place. By some mistake it
was mentioned in Lloyd's lift that this veffcl was
captured by the French.
%i)t <sa3ette* w
PHILADELPHIA,
: THURSDAY EVENING, March 1
; ExtraS of a letter date* November 21 I 797»
, frm a very refpeSalle houft in Hamburgh,
, to their correffondents in this City—received
t Ly capt- Earle.
1 "I am lorry to fay that the last accounts
j from Paris, give reason to apprehend that an
open rupture may perhaps take place be
-1 tween France and the United States. Our
1 I underwriters therefore refufeto take rifles in
, j American bottoms, unless at 15 per cent,
f 1 to return 5 per cent in cafe that war should
< I not be declared, before the arrival of the 1
,1 J (hi P .» £
il
I The bill sent up Houfe of Re- (
il prefentatives yesterday, to repeal the law, "
laying a duty on stamped vellum, &c. was t
1. read in Senate the firft time, and the quef
il tion being put for a second reading, it pass- i
V ed in the negative, 16 to 12. (
1- 1 . ~
[The following cempleat refutation of the sals- I
,f hoods if the Editor of the Aurora, -will 1
le doubt left arrejt the attention of our readers.]
It To Meffrt. Leti Hoii.ingswo*th, Da- 1
ft niel Smith, Icc.
GENTLEMEN,
j, In compliance with your rcqueft to be
u- informed, " whether the committee were u
ie nanimous in their report on the conttfted e
]• lc&ion of Mr. Israel?" I do not hesitate to
ce fay that they were. A day or two before i
the committee had reduced their report into
e- form, a separate qucftion was taken on the
several article* contained is the fpecification
of the petitioners and ti]ton each of them,
■e- the committee was unanimous. Immediately
ill before the chairman had by order ofthe com
-1 mittee, signed the report, one of the mem
ber» exprefled a doubt, as to a point which
he had not fully examined—he was told by
o ' n the Committee, that if he wiflied further
he time to fatisfy his mind, he Ihonld be in
is dulged, and that the report would be poll
is 1 p®ned for one, two or more days if neceffa
pt ry, as it was the general wi(h that the una
; nimify which had hitherto prevailed in the
" e i committee should continue. He observed,
c . that as all the other members were fatisfied
an I as to the fadl upon which he had doubted,
he he did not wifhfot any delay, was fatisfied,
and the report of the Committee was agreed
7. <oi and Brdcred to be signed, without any
|j? j differing voice.
/ am, with refpeS, Gentlemen,
.j Tour humble Servant,
;t ic MATTHIAS BARTON,
in- Philadelphia, February 21ft, 1798.
lot <
7 * c ' the foregoing letter was published in the jvvo
ha, on Thursday, the Zld infant with the
to following remarlf.
ltli "To the above I think it my duty to add
:et a few words, in order to remove improper
1o- impressions. The Committee were not unan
imous in their decision, that the whole num
ber of votes, alledged to be bad, (hould be
deduftcd from Ifratl Israel's majority; and
[h ' e consequently, they were not unanimous for
ra- vacating his feat. If the report was order
»nt ed to be signed without a diflenting voice,
ich Jt was because all the members of the Com
atc mittee were not prefetit when it was ligued.
of For this statement I have the belt authority;
but no time to eularge."
the (Signed) " Benjamin- Franklin Baehe."
hey " »
1 Mr. Fenno will oblige me by pnblilhing
jnd the foregoing letter and remarks, together
with the following certificate,- the original
\ 01 of which, signed by all the mem'.ers of the
j re _ committee he will receive herewith, to re
main in his poffeflion. The rtaf >n why it
■ of was not brought forward sooner is, that some
ght ,f the members of the committee were ab
®>ot sent, and did not return before yelltrda/.
suM Feb. 28th, 1798. M. BARTON.
CERTIFICATE.
o< jy "In order to remove any improper im
iriih preffions which might be nrsdc if the above
Pitt remarks were permitted to pass unnsticcd,
(or we Jo certify, that the foregoing Hanm nt
,l ' lt signed" Matthias Barton" is corrcS and true\
,nds aad, that at the time the report of th. com.
mittee iras ordered to be finned, every mem
ber thereof was Feb. 27th 1798."
nil a ,
, ac- ANOTHER TRUTH.
:t h»- In the fo'.emn hour of depth, ev;B Jieo
bins will sometimes speak the truth. A De
mocrat, one of the txclulive patriots, lately
n died at B®fton. This roan waj often «artf
,h:», fed bjr all the cho:«e fpiriti of of h.f party.
and many thov.fand milei hailie rode, on t 1 t
evangelfcnl raiffion of diffufing the fire or
exclulive patriotism. Among hit friends hi
toallrd the names of Hancock, S. Adams,
Jarvis, Sullivan, Austin, and ofall the horde
who looked up to them for the true creed
ol political faith. In th« profpeft of ap
proaching death, this patriot made his will
»hd named for his executor a gentleman who
had always been opposed to him in politic*
and who bore the charafter of an honed
ftatinch friend of government. The gen -
tleman, having received information of hit
intended appointment, begged to be exsuf«
ed and alkrd him w v y he did not appoint
one of his own particular friends, from a.
mong his own party—"Alas," said the de
mocrat, " I have oonfidered them nil, and
there ia not one among them thit I can
trujl."
APPOINT MENT.
William Maubray, colle&or for the
port of St. Mary's, Georgia—vice, Jamee
Seagrove, efq> refigrted. j
* The ai tie'e from the Consul Gen»
eral of French Republic, is unavoida»
bly poltponed till to-motrow.
«" ■ 1 1
NEW-THEATRE.
FRIDAY EVENING, March 2,
Will be pri-fentcd the Comedy of
The ROAD TO RUIN.
With a Comic Orim (never performed ia Amer»
ica) called,
"The SHIFWRE' K.
Edward Dvnant,
No 149, South Fron'-ftreet,
Has still remaining of the Cargo of the Johanna,
from Malaya,
66 kegs Sun Raisins
I 91 jars fint Bloom ditto f
I »i hlids } u P cr ' or Catalonia Wine
I Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hogfheadt and
quarter cases
I And a few qr cases fine old Colemenar Wine.
He bat alf» % »few patkagtt qJ
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
Conflftii'g of Humkums,'! ickcries,PatnaChintr,
I Bandanna, Fullicat and Barhar Handkerchiefs,
I Choppa Romals, black and coloured Persians, and
I black Pepper.
(T Wanted—A Male and Female
I SERVANT, of unexceptionable characters.
I fcarcK *ft cod
'■"T'HE Subscriber informs those
| JL to whom he is indebted, that a peifon will
1 attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the Ift
I of April next, from the houri of 10 o'clock inthe
I morning till a o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
I formerly occupied t»y him in Chefnnt-ftreet, for
1 I the putpole of {hewing all books, papers and let.
I ters regarding his pall commercial tranfa&ions to
I filth of his creditors as may think proper tp attend
| and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
I march I. eoti A
: Landing
' I From »n board the Snow Maria, from CoftH'
I hagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
r .| 3no pieces Kavens Dm k
' I ijo pieees RuiGa Sheeting
: | i<fo holts Ruflia Dink, and
i A quantity of Sw d«s Iron
Ftr Sate by
; JOSEPH ANTHONY W C».
. I ll'lc Ijvc m Hand.
| ift and id proof Bourdeaux Brandy
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-England Rum
' Loßdon P f rli£S ' ir I Madeira Wine in Pipe.
- London' Market 5 Cato.
. I ' Old Claret in Cases
. j 14 hhds Coffee just arrived
I B«ft Bellon Bed i« barrels
I Mackrell in do.
e J Hilifax Salmon in do.
> I A small invo.ee of Rhode-Illand Chceft
i 1 Speiraaciti Oil
, I Tanucrs ditto .
, I No. », 1, .3, Boston Sail Duck
] I Huffia Coidape, and
I An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Olafs Ware.
' I March I. dsw
I Red Clover Seed of the beftquality.
MAI)EI*A tVISS,
I Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
I pipes aud Quarter calks.
TenerifFe Wine,
And, Window Glaf —all of which will be fold
I on very reasonable terms, i>y
r J John Craig,
No- li, Dock Street.
" I march I wA«f
1 TO LET,
And may he entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
1 Three ftorics h«gh, and in an excellent (land for
I bitHaefs. Apply to
>r I & Jo/bua Fijher,
r " I march T. >■ . Deck- ret.
f ' 1 o be bold,
j I A BRICK HOUiE. together with the Lot
I £\. thereto belonging. ; n the city of Burling
f' I ujii, Ntw-Jerfey. The house bas three rooms
I below, and three chamhers in the upper story.
I The kitclien adjoining is a frame buil ing. The
I Lot has a front of 72 on Pear! street, and
~ I the fame front on the river Pelaware. Tfce
« I length of th* Tot is about 150 feet — 1. he
I commands a very pleafan' profpeiH of the river,
I and of the Borough of Briflol, on the Pennfyl
,e I vania fllore, Immedijte polTeflion inly be had.
e- I For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
it I •'iins, next door below the City Tavern in Phi.
I ladslphia, or the fubferiber in Burlington.
b I THOMSON NEALE.
Burlington, march 1. 'eodiw
To be fold at Vendue,
I At the Hourr, a' 7 o'clock in the eveaing,
n. I on the Jth of "> arch next,
r—j. v The Hull / the
I Ship JOHN,,
nt *!rsGiTOfc> H r s and three Anchol^
■ iw*** l lying under the bow, cut away aft
' ter Cie bilged. Strani-'ed at he mouth of C han-
Il * f e creit. the was built in Newhtiryporj a uut
rn ' I five years ago, was coppered loft summer in Ham.
I burg, and measures about 500 tons.
ISO AT TBI SAME TIM I,
I Apart of the Cargo whithisnot yet got out her, fay,
I 19 tonsof Iron
0 4 bojfe! ot fiieet Copper
' c * 1 70 boxes of window and ho'l' w GU r t
lly I All for the ben fit of th c m erned.
tf- William Shannon, Auctioneer.
y, J February tZ it jMJUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Yoong's Book-store,
Corner of Ch .font and Second streets,
( 50 Cents J
Caafes qui fe font oppofees aux
Proercs du conjnurce, entre L FKANGE et Us
i i"AT i-ll \'lSi lie L' V\SERIQU E.
A vet les Moyens de l'acc£l«rer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationale
de "Anglctcrrc, do la France, and des
ET ATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addrefleei a Monfieurlc Mar
quis de la Fayett*. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mr rub re de la Legislature de la
dn Maffachuffet.
Le Conim.ru eCL la portion U plus importante des
(Richefles Nationals*
—LeTrident de Neptune, eft lc sceptre du_M onde.
Limiiri.
Or causes that have been eppofed to the
PROGRESS of COMMERCE botween
FRANCE Mi the UNITED ST.TTIS of AMERICA.
With the meant of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
be la Fayette.
Translated (into French from the original Eug
li(h Manufcri-t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legislature of Malfachufetts.
Commerce ii> the most important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
the world. Limiiri.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty vtitb France may soon
bccumc an aljiA of difcuiEon, a work of this kind
becomes extrnnely ufefut to those eitizens of th«
United States, who may be defirons to enXble them
ft:ves to view this fubjeA, under its various aG
pe&s; and they will have the fatisfadlion to be
furnifhed with the iieceQary data, to judge of the
ufefulnefsof this tranfadlion.
This work is principally distinguished by the
rlchncfs of the obferva'ions, »he pcrfpisuity of th«
i«ca«, and the modesty of the theory wh ; ch it
contains. t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
tbis work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with uJe: ul produce. It is addri f
fed to the unfcrtuiate La Favitte, in letters,
which fugitive so m, the author who could only
devote a few works to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although tircumjianc s ai« ill many
refptfls different at the present day, from what
•hoy were in the year 1790, when these letters I
were written, yet it may be justly faid,that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
fult of the author** remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&inus, between free
nations, every thing may be expected from the ef
forts ef truth and juP.ice. .
LETTER I.
General view of the in France,
to prevent ;he extension of commerce, with the
United Stat< s—Gbfervatiflns made in a tour, taken
for that exprefis purpose, upon some French manu
fa«sure§ (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
agaiulk the quality of certain produ&ions of the
Ufiited States, and against the advantages of their
importation— Demomlraticn of the bad policy of
laying duties on their importitien, principally on
provilions in general, and on fait provisions, and
nfli in pa ticular—Confiderations on the regulations
©f the French c a i^om-hnufas.
LEITER H.
Obftaclcs to the extension of trade with France,
jHocetding 1 rem circumftimces and individuals m
the United St3te»— Proofs tha' these obttacles are
only temporary and wiH be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wlfdom of govern
ment*— Hiilory the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciple« and abftraA
confident ions on money and circulation—Causes
of the itagnati(»n of merican trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French ._,oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary condu<fl
cf the French merchants—Effe&s of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifiieson t>his fubjeA—
Obfrrvdtions oa money, weights and meafurcs.
LETT&R ill.
EiTay in the form fa tableau, to appraise the im
po: tat ions into the Uriiud Slat a from France and Eng
land unted. The author examines at each article,
wl ethei it can be better lurnilhed from France or
EnglaiKl—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would have allonifhcd a meie theorifl) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience These
kin of tableau*, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only fuie guides
the llatefman can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much adnnrc the apparent ex
attoefft of coJoocl Swan'* calculations ; and although
•the of Lord bhcfEeld have alieady been
coniradised by expeiirnce, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to lee the author of ihe present work,
dispute with him the only grou d on which ht has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the icquiied condition, will he better able ■
than Gieat Britain to fypply us with fevoral articles, !
which the Englill) authoi allots enciufively and forev- }
cr to the latter; the author's tia/tiy ajfcfl on (\f he ;
has any) does n*»t appear to haste at, any time created
a partiality ofjudgment. Ihe refolt of this calculation
is that in «789, t».at is to fay, ata period when arts
and manufactures did sot ptcfent in France the vdt
means and probability of extension which they now
pofTi.fi; th-t even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply oae
of any given aaantity of the produdions of France
and i ngtand united, butalfoto ciaer into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to ihe wisdom of her government, and the industry
cf her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculat ion of the exportation of the United States,
and particular ex*minauon of their fuitablencfs to
jFrance ; this is oue reason why, notwithflanding the
excel I ht work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no means fuperfluous . the principle of
advantages which would result to France from the
importation»>f ptovifiomand raw mateiials, is every
%vhcre applied } and it is upon this argument, that
the author t ftablilhcs his demands to the French go
vernment* for the limited ad million of the produc
tions of his country into Fra*ec.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt o-f the United States at that
time—^-Opinions cf the author on the finances, on the
4 effeftsof national debt, 00 circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, thepubl c and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the roifcries arifiogfrom trie public debt in
Europe, arc cont.artcd in the ablcft inaoner, and un
der tne most linking icla 10ns, by very cu ious cat*
eulation.—-Oofcrvations onthe wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenses in Massachu
setts. In this plaa: the patrV»tifm of the author ap. •
pears, with all the elevation which ajulf natior al
pndciu'pirt». Theancicnt g'-veriments of Europe,
l?>« he, will lejrn .from us the art of economy iu ;
recompensing the feivices which Ihe jountry receives; ■
Amongst us it mill J>e fan, that mA are chojen Jor places t
ind net p'aces for men. This letter sol.eludes with a
general view of tie public proper:y, depbfited in the
% nands of the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination of the d' fe&j of the commer
cial policy of France wii-h refpr£l so the United States;
many of ifwfe obferNations- have product i the ess. &» j
for whtdh they «wcre 'intended, othtrs fti.l remain,'
pointing out the reforms u> be r.itdc in futtfrp, as a ;
gec|d chart maiks the Shoals acfl Tfjc |
cartelades by fixing his att«nti«n em bis
country, Snd the great men who have rendered it il
lulliiou* and we >ake a pleafurc in quoting what he
fays of '.he prcfcm chief of our government. To
praise a man when he exercises a diltinguilhed em
oloyment. is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but wbilft he is in private lite, it is the homage of
sincerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les ha titans des Liais-unis, fuivant dairs leur
cboix le hien public, & excites par un principe de
reconno4flar.cc, choilirent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouve u coogres. efforts, pnur pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le goav
frnement Anglais contre fa liberte, le rendirent tres
fufpett a ceux qui ,ete>ient en pouvoir Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le ehoiftt pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congres. Dc ce nombrc
e:oit auffi M Samuel Adams, patriote aufli intrepide,
qu'infatigable La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, & a fes talens
diftinges. Ceux que M # . John Adams a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fair a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit mintftre audi habile que grand
politique. Et aans son ouvrage lur 1a defeale de la
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can.
noilTiinces qui forment les vrais jurifconfuites & les
hommesde Ini; neceiTaircs, pour re.n
plir hanorablement les fondlions de president du fenat
des Etats-unis.
jnrr ICE.
A ManufaSory ef yellow and delft ware,
Such as Rever was in this Country beforr, has been
been lately ere£led at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hud son's River, lla e of Nt*-
York, where any article of varkras forts and fhapci
may be executed, as well as eartbern (loves upon a
new conftru£Umi, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonlyjifed in cafl iron floves or open ehymuies;
they arcbefides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to , ?
J. MOUCHJ£T,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the bakinp and
glazing part of the laid ware. Generous appoint,
raenfs will be given. Apply as?bove. or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 2.1 South Street.
Feb. IQ. eod^w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY totlrt laA will and tcftamentof
William Hltsham, deceaCed, and posses
sion mediately, a valuable property in Arch
ftteet* between Third and Fourth flrects, confin
ing of the heufe, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&ed, a Halle, and other improvamcnts.—
Thekoofe is feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is ©f the fame breadth as the
houfcand 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in go«p repair. The stable ft and son the rear of
the lot and wijl accommodate four horses aud a car
riage. Thi6 property enjnysthe perpetual privilege
of a a6feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,exteNii-
irg to Chsrry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poffelfes with refpeA to free ventila
tion, readers it well worthy the attention of any
person wtfhing to poffefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further parfritwlars enquire at No BS,
Sweet—of
ROBERT Heyshaw,
or > A dling E»ooutort.
Franxtis Bowes Sayrb, j
January 11 §
NOTICE.
ALL p«rfons who have any demands agiinft
the'tflafe of Wiilam FleswTjOOjj, of
Liverpool, late ps Philadelphia, merchant,
ceafcS, are requested to exhibit thair accounts,
properly attested j and those who are Indebted
to the fame, afe desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DQpSON, I ,
No. 15, So. Third-street. 5 Admint J lr r
January 4. dtf
Ran away Jrom the Sulferiher,
0» the 34th January last,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is of a middling fixed feature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-ftrcct,
shall receive two Dollars reward
J, LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors said Girl alter this no
tice, shall be prosecuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10.
tiew-Torky January *4, 1798 1
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room j
Fur Publishing by Subfcriplion,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
Br Madame Roland ;
Wife *f the Minister as the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS. . .
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tion? in a months,) will be comprised in 1
vols, oftavo, of 4©o pages each.
They will be printed on fin* paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, a! I dollar and jo cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subfcrtj>tion money fobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work is coir,pleat.
'So Printers, BookfelLrs, and others, who
acquire Sukfcriptiens, the usual allowance will
be made.
£3" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and r.t the different
Bookllores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner cf Second and Chefnut street, ;nd
the Editor cf the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch. ■
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING sr SUbSCRIFTIOr,
A NEW AN*> INTERESTING WORK, ENTIT LID,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mis
demeanor., bywhkh public ar.d piivate proper
ty, arc at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggefling remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAC I STR ATE,
Afling for the countiasof Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Eflex ; fbrthe city and liberty of Weflmin
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a forge oilavo, on
an excellent EngiHh paper—lt will be drlivereJ to
fubferibers, bound iu boards, at the moder«te price
of One Dollar and a half; ilthoughthe.lall London
edition, cu inferior paper and meanly bound, m
now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To aou-fub
fcrf'.iers the price will be raised.
WhatevcrenoAragement may be given by ftib-
it will be committed to the f*ofs without
delay ; and, birring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
. iiibfcriptions will be thankfully receivedat
Br am 1 n BaVissVi book-ftoie, No 68, High
Rrecf,-and of the other ir ffce 1
city in Baltloicre; and by bam--
s.l Ciimpbell, gad A. «> Nejv-York.
J'W'i'T 4V . ,J . ; . aawtA ,
FROroSAL?,
By THP
Insurance Campany of North America.
i '"or Insurance againtt Fi»«, on Dwelling
' Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) dillant from
Philadelphia, iuthe United States.
I. Common lufurancet, »■ hazard* of the firft
class, will bo undertaken at a premium of ahout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
riiqufs a pren inm will be required, which
will vary according to circumstances, fcidom e«-
ccediug one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
ftanccs, where the property insured is not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, hut rendtred ftiU more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftancen.
Hcale* and Ware Hr.ufo, the walls and parti
tions of wliich are wholly M flone or brick, w«l!
ConltrufliJ, so a. to b« guarded at well be
against Ores from within, and ivte from extra ha
surdeus buildings and occcupatitfns intl\eir neigh
borhood, will lie deemed hazardous of the fa-it
clufs, and may be inlured to their full value.
Also O iods and Merchandize, not o' an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bahs, or packag«s, de
pofircd'in such bm'ldi»gs, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than this sum
is required to be iniur«l in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, ill proportion to
circumftanfces.
11. lnfurancas will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tho risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads cr daffes, so as to dcfcribc
each with the necelfary accuracy- Each cafe rauft
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
stances attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uymg tlis application.
Buildings partly con (trusted of brick or flone,
are preferablt to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of buil ding, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fuv»ted, the neighboring
buildings, and how occapKd, are confideratiors to
be taken into view. And with refpeift te goods,
their tendnncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they arfc expoftd, e thcr
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such ilate to receive damage by
wet, »r by liudden and hafly removal, or to be ito
len in time of ronfafion and hurry, are all cir
■cumftances of weight ; and the premiums mi'.ft be
proportioned accordingly.
HI. The following conditiont are to be under
ftond hy the parties.
ift. Theinfurance is not binding till the ftrpu
laud prem sm be paid ; but it fliall be decmsd ef
feclual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
ed. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
penfc« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were anderftood by tha Infurcrs at the time
the former insurance was made ; !mt the payment
•f tht premium is Hfcntial to such renewal ; and
if the party hifuYed firffcrs any time to elupfe after
the expirati®n el the former insurance, before he
y paysa premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; fior can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy , but by computing the
comrticncement of the renewal from 'he expiration
of the former inlurance> The fubjeft of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d, If any other insurance be made on the faaie
property ; jt mu't be made knows at the time of
application, othdrwife the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on consignment,
»4y be insured as such in a separate policy; but
xfcay are not to be considered ?s insured ©therwife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occasioned by-ariy for
eign invafi«n, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil cor/motion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongll the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title De dl. Money, Bank and other pro
milfsry Notes, are not included in any infarance ;
nor are paintings, medal«, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the valoe of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a Siorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Perfbns choosing to inlare for seven
years lhail be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third ot a years premium /hall
be abated in like masncr on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Loflss sustained by fire on property insured,
fliall be paid in thirty day 3 after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduSion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expeded with each application, to he made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the builditig 01 applicant for in
furai ce, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleige of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpedl to Hotf-j and other Buildings,
ift. The lite and pofitien ; describing the
llreet or road on or near which the building
Hands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguifliment of fire
in cafe of accident ; and particularly whether
any and what firs companies arc eftablilhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbor hood.
2d. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftoneor wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeflive height and
thickness ; the style of the roof "and of what
materials ; how fecurcd by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of accefsto the top of the
house and to the chimnies 4 whether any and
what elefiric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for allies.
. 3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
njury; the ,ige and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel-,
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pole , also an estimate of the value of the houie
or build ng independent of the ground.
4th, The fitti-tion with rclpeifl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diflancc, how b lilt, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory it car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Rifpedlinggoods in Houfei, Warehouses, «cc.
I- A feneial description of the building in
which they arekept will beexpedled, similar in
all refpeilsj as to the danger from <ire, with that
required for,lnfuran«e on the buildings tfeem
felves.
2. A description of the kinds and nature qf
the goods, whether in caflts or other packages,
or opened ; and, whether displayed in whmle
pieces or in tl)e usual form for retailing. And
if tlie goods vary materially in kind, a general
cf_'hc va.'Le of each kind prppefed to I
be insured ; but in the last particular minute
ness of description it not expedled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra 'hazardous, though in varieus degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol'n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, (ulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable ktnd opened—
Glofx, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glaflcs, jewelery ; andallo
ther articles ruor« than commonly inflammable,
or rr ore thaw commohly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moistures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on aa alarm of fire.
Letters p®ft paid, diredVtd to the Secretary of
the Board of DireiSlors, will be duly attended
t«. An order fdr Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enqaiiy only, it will
be anl'wered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZF.R HAZARD, Stc'ry.
Office of the Insurance Company of North )
America j Fhilmd. Feb. 1, 1798. £
Feb. 14.
James C. & Samuel W. Filher.
AT THE.Ji STOAA,
corner of Arch and Front street.
EAVE FOR SALE f
Cotton and worfled Hosiery in trunk?, affored
A few bales r*d, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty rornali Handkorchwfs
Ditto Puilicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Macfrafo ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black T&ffciAs
4000 pieces Nantcer>«, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Atfe —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —ajtd 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they will difpefe of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 10 3tawtf i
~~~ ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaiei, }
St. Jfinc&ts, > Rlijl.
and J
300 casks RICR, £nd
A parcel cf ship building RED CEDAR.
Q&. 27. / §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No.' 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
meant of becoming perfedl in the FrfeniK Lan
guage, that he has jutl opei.ed hi* Library, corv.
fitting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the btft cal
culated to afford cither ufefui inltru&ion, or plea--
sure. The conditions, together with a cathlogue
of the Library, may be seen at evtry book-feller's
in town.
n. u. All trmflations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spaniih Languages, execu:eci with ac
curac\ and dispatch. coiva nov lj>.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with muoh pleaf
ureattd refpe«ft> returns hrr ftneere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
ihe has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and aflurej her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
felloal. flic has made a fupertor arrangement for
the mote convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly ttteflde'i by Mrs.
Groombrjdge and mailers cxielling in tlieir
relpedfive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce ahd Eleventh Streets.
June sth, i 797. s:mftf
The fitcation is perfeilly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
6f ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE, "at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT at the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
a gain (t WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and rnif
demeanors, made in of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the receft of Congress, and
inftru&ing thfni " to enquire, and, by all lawful
u means, to discover the whole nature and est nt
" of the i,ffence whereof the said William Blount
" Hands fmpeache. and who are the Duties and
" associates therein."
Printed by order of the House ofßeprefentat'rves
December 2t>
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. ?2, Second-street, corn >r of Chefnut-itoeet,
HAS now ready for fate, a very large assort
ment of Enolijb, French) Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Aift, fi*ch elementary books
on jdence, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large ijuno prica 1 d®l 75 »fs.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, amd!
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards
fheathiHg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks, 1
blank Books,, Wax, Wafers and other articles, ©f 1
the best: quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
%y" Catalogues of a miftelkneous colle<stion of (
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had fc
by inquiring as above. OA. 24.—3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol oAavo.
By William Young, Boohfetier,
No. 52, Second ftrect, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
( Price, in boards 8712 Cents)
Neatly printed on sice American wove medium r
Faper,
A VIEW i
Of the Science of Life ; f
On the priuciplri efta 1 lifted in th» elements h
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D. t
With an attempt to corres some important erf
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly fe'efled from the records of their praSicr, at t
the General Hofpttal at Calcutta, f
St TVILLIAM TATES Ctf Chas, Maclean.
To which i» subjoined, a Treatise on the a&ion '
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- F
tion l'orthe cure of di/irafes of indiretft debility.
And adiflisrtaiion onthe sources of Epidrmicand,
Pestilential diseases; in
by a numerousinduflion of that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but arc always produ- ' -i
ced bj cer:sin slates, or certain vicllTitude« of
the atmosphere, by Char-les MaClva><, of
Calcutta.
nov, ji. Jut
THIS DAY IS OI :.\ T ED,
And for l'ale by WILLIAM 1- UNO, No. J»,
corner of Second and Ck»fi.tlt-i<r<x«,
In one large volume, S vo.
(Price ./ tie ammm fuftr, neatly bound, l Mian
eenti ; Jim Jith, in hearth, 3 Allan)
AZETTEER,
EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a much
more full and accurate Account, than has
bren given, of the State?, Provinces, Counties,
Cities, Towns, Village!, Rivers, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and Nevr Djfcoveri«s, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, al& of the West-India lflands,
and other Mauds appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
scribing the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, Froduiftioni, Commerce, MalufaAures,
Curiosities, &c. of the lcveral Countries, and of
tkeir important Civil Divifioos—and the Longi
tude ai.d Latitude, the Bearings and Diftanccs,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lages ; —with a particular Description of Tlx Geor
gia IVeJIe/n Territory. The whola compriCnjj; up
wards of Seven Thouland diftinfi Articles.
ColkSed and compiled frotn the best Authori
; tie, and arranged with great care,- by, and under'
' th« direAinn of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, b. B.
Author of the American UniverfulGeography-
Fellow of tin -mctican Academy of Arts and
Sciences—and Member (if the Maflachufetls His»
torical Society.
[liiluftrated with seven new and neat Maps,]
(PutliJM according to alt of Coign ft )
Aft, FOk SALE, at akove,
Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
In two large S vo. volumes, price 4 ilols. ,50 eta.
Ditto, abridged, at t dollar.
February %6. eo^t
Proposals for Publishing
A new Commercial Work in the City of
Philadelphia, to betntitled
The Philadelphia Price-Current,
AND
Nautical Recorder,
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber having been engag
ed in carrying on a publication in Boftcm
under the title of *he " s'ficn rrice Current, end
Marine Intelligencer j" a work, for utility and ex
tent of circulation, equal perhaps to any publica
tion et the kind in Europe or America, is now
induced to risque an attempt to publish a similar
paper under the patronage of the citizens of Phi
ladelphia. He makes tjie attempt from a persua
sion that a publication lor general benefit, and ex
tensive information, will receive as much support
from the libera! minds of th« merchants and other*
ef this city, as places of le{» opulence in th«"Uni
te:l States and although little immediate benefit
(hould iefuit to rhe citizens from such a publica
tion, yet it might prevent an idea aferoad which
some have induftri«ufly circulated, that thf trade
of this extenfiv city was on the and con
rra&ed into so narrow a sphere that it would not
support a Price Cnrrent.
i he general anxiety that prevails in the com
mercial woild at this critical period, renders a
work 01 the kind particularly ufeful and nectary
i*Jor can the utility be doubted, when it is con-
I fidered how extenlive ihe trade and particularly
the insurance are affected in this city.—-A «ar»ful
publication of the failing and arrival of vefiels in
different parts of world—advice from vefiels
at ft a accidents happening in and out of port,-
are ever circumstances that ought to te known by
the merchant and underwriter, and one informa
tion of this kind may save more than the cost of a
hundred papers through life. The Editor engag
es to use his utmost endeavors to make it honora
ble and profitable to himfelf, fen fib le that it can
be done < nty by making it acceptable to his patron?.
T hifcpubhcation will contain, agetera! Price Cur
rent ot a]] articles ofimpertaton &eyportation,\vhh
tlie duties on importation, in this City , New-York
and Botfon—Foreign Pncfe Currents, in general ;
to obtain which the various European publications
will be procured, particularly thr fe of London,
Ljverpf-01, Bristol, Hamburgh, &c —arrivals
and clearances in the principal porrt in America,
and every article of information which
can in any manner be ufetul or interesting to mer
chants in general. It will likevvife-contain Prices
oi Stecks ip the different parts of the United States,
correded by eminent Brokers— Cuft cm house im
portations—Laws, Arrets and Deems o! commer
cial tendency, See. &c.
*~T
CONOI/IO.NJ.
Ifi. To be printed with a now type, 011 gaodpaper
of a large crown fee, and contain 4" page- folio.
la. It will be published twioea week, and deliv
ered to fubfci ibers in the city cat ly on the morn
ings of publication, and forwarded to those «ut
of the city with the greatest expedition and care.
3d. The price will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one dollar on the delivery of the firli
number; one dollar at the expiration of thrsc
months, and th rcfiriue at the end of the year.
4th Suhreritiens for the work in any other place
than tfte city, to pay one half years fubferiptien
money.
sth, The work to begin as soon as five hundred
fuWcribers arc procured, of which notice will
be given.
Subscription pppers will be placed in the
various public offices, &c. and sent in the eourfc of
the week, to the citizens in geiural, for their pa»-
"onage. JOSEPH N. RUSSELL.
February 20. tuf&ni.^t
Wanted, to Hire,
A l arge and con vsnient HOUSE, in or nPar
the centre of tht city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or cn
more for a longer lerm. Inquire of th« Printer
°a- eotf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpcii of
a country Printer as well as neW.
Enquire of the Printer.
City Commiilioner's Office,
'January nth, 1795,
FOR THE INFORMATION Of THF CITIZRNS,
HPHE following arrangement is made bytha
X Caid commifii»n£i-s, for cleanfinr the
ftmtts, &c.
Diflrifl No. I.—From the north fide of Vina
street, to the south fide of Mulberry ftrret ; to
he under the fuperintendance-of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mylbrry street, to
the south fide of C'.efnut ftrrtet, to be under the
fupenntendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, loibe under the
fuperintendanee of Joleph Claypoole.
4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
pcriuiendance of Hugfr Uoberts. mwfttn
.Jujl Publifheiy *"
And to be had cf Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell ,Ric«,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in rte
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribe 6 and Nations of America.
Dy BENJAMfN SMITH BARTON, m,i>.
June