Philadelphia. Daily Advertiser.
1705-J
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
Hltt FOR SALE,
j! hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in p'pes andhhiin.
B"en«rifte do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighttis sf chests
Sai! Cinvafs, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, aad Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Well-India market
Nails afTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and erates
Yellow ochre dry in caflts ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expeiled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fir.e'Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spjnilh Brown 1
Venetian Red
SCSI } mints
White Lead I
Red Lead J
Colcothir vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
Ship Diasa,
F®r Sale or Chatter.
ALSO)
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nieklin & Co.
K now t<>
NICKLIN (if GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
For Savannah,
7'he faft failing Ship
SWIFI PACKET,
( a repul r trader)
Q>tPatrick Gribben, mafier,
WILL fjil on tht 10th inft.
• (icepermitting) hashandf m: aceommodations
for paflengen. For freight or palTage apply to
the matter onborrd, at Kickley's wharf, above
Markct-flrcet, or
N. £5" J. Frazicr,
1 N.-95, South Front-street.
Frbmarv 3. j
For
u—e. The Ship
FARMER,
John Master ;
KCt' WILL fail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fiftf tons ot Coffee, or
pillage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourde-anx, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniae,
Santerne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Navembe 14.
for Sale or Charter,
S&Lj GOOD HOPE
Will carry about laoo barrels, and
is ready tctakein a cargo. Fer terms
apply to
Pragers £9° Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lilbon, and TenerifFe win®.
November 7. dtf
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway servant Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herlelf Betsey
Smith, and fencing her to North Front-street, No.
.She is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, withround features, and black bushy
hair* probably much altered by paint and pow
ers*, as (he i' luppofed to befocrcted in houses of
d fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19. eolw
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE eirizen» of the United States are hereby
informed, that the minufa&ure of Window
Glass is n*w commenced at the G!a& House in
Beltan.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Bollen Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United Statest.be in every ref
f e>S greatly superior to any ever imported Irom
Europe.
It will be cut to any Cze commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Ctiailu F.
Xupftr, at the Glaf> House. *
Orders from the dillant States to be addreflcd to
Mr. Samuel Gore, C.urt-ftroet, Boston.
Two or three good Glass mak rs ate want
ad at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Linit, at
tlu: works. Men without families w ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with themeth»d
.of r.aking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boflon. |anuary 16 t —lawiSw
House and Lots, in Bordenlown.
,r-j-iO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
X with the Lot on which i' (s erecfted, fituat
-eu about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The hoHfe is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet An
the main street, and extends with :ht fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
W II he give* as the purchifer may chufe. Thi«
ly w iU be fold free sf all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
F<» further particulars enquire either o) Dr.
William Burnes, redding in flordencown, near
the pr.mifea, who will (hew the fame, or of
P PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. M4> Maiket-ftreet.
Decemfcer ». Jiwtf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 26, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Ellates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-street,
at 6 •'dock in the evening, the following •
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick House, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a let 20 feet front and
100 feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. I his
interest has lately been let for 100 dolkrs per an
num, and is situated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second-streets, the fecoad house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
No. 2. A three story brick House, situate at
the north raft corner of Chefnut flreets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 30 feet on Chefnut
ftrect, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the bell (lands for the file of dry goods in this city.
No. j. A handsome well finifhed three ftoty
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, fttu
ate in Fifth-flreot, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This oufe is built and fimfhed
in the modern style, is in eorxplcte repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Theie is a ciflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fart let for 600 dollars per anna™ with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plnmb-ftreet, between Second and Third ftrret,
being 20 feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny. *
No. 5, A thr.c story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-llreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is Gve story. It is 10
feet front aid 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale arc, one quarter ca!h,
one quarter iH 6 months, one quarter in 9 mouths,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan ra, 1798. Jaw
£5" On account of the present bad weather, the
above sale i> postponed until Thursday evening, the
firft cay of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
just arrived7~
In the Ship itar, Joseph Woodman, matter, from.
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit Weft India market
40 hogsheads Whiting
XSOO buflieb Houfe Coals
Al»0 JUST LANDED,
barrels prime Beef, Bolton and New-York
50 barrels Pork
I <0 hhds. Hava>.na Molaflfet
Woolen Cloths^)
Blauketo > afforied in packages
Hard Ware j
R.ivens Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bririfh, of various fixes
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I grace each
A general assortment of Queens' Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cases
Basket fine Salt, in hogftieads
FOR SALE BY
Tbos. & 'John Ketland.
February 15 {tin
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom ,t may interest or con
cern, that the Judges of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the Hventy-Ji*tb day of
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the j
Court-house in fhU city, on the hit peti
tion for the benefit of the lafolvent Law—and
that their attendance is defined.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, yan. 16. eot26th^
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for thein.kifpec
tionfince December 1796 are balanced to the 3 (ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his CountiHg-hoafe in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fcrutny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ift 1798.
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres.6B perches
of land, (huate in lower Smithfield townlkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath mad« the following note, viz,
Thi* land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what l ight.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a' ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Oflice.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §tlF2wtm '
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his buft
nefs, offers this Eifcate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfctt repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with theie various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thouiand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfattured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not ojie of sixty-nine gang
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, a*d a place of aims lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into of other
ufeful purposes. The purch*fer can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek and utenfi!s, and have podcfliofi
on or before the fit U of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime tor going into Blafl im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &.c, Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ECq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, fijvid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or to the piopiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOW.
Dee. 1. ywtf
Landing this day,
From on board tht schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
Gctrge Latimer Son.
ntvember 9. f
By John Fen no, N°* 119 Chefnut Street.
NOTICE.
WHERF.AS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
iv, of Oxtcd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great Britain, Spinster, or her afiijns
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred ltoclt of
the United States, was 101 l in the Ihip I'eggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
ix the year 1796. Th<; lubferiher, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
tht United Status, ior a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. »j. iaw6w.
THE term of Co-partnerlhip between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted,to the partnership,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J u n.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February T9 §tf
FOR SALE, »y "
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICi ARE
Gurrahs Mameodies
Baftas Saunas
Guzzenas Tanda Coftaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicees
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion ofthema
nufaAnres of Patna.
Britiih Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
tht y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend kcceping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Irijb, French and Sri*
tijh Mannfa&uresfor sale, on advantageous terms
for cash or a (hort credit.
February 19 §.tf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 daw
PRINT.
THE Print, reprrfenting Gineral Washing
ton and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the tsth of
March next.
An unfinifhed impreffiMi istO"be seen at Mr. M'El
wees's looking-glass llore, No. 70 South Foutth Street.
The fublcription will close on the 10th of March
next. Subscribers may depend 011 having the best
Prints at one panel and an ka:j. To noo-fubferibers,
the price will be two guineas.
February 19.
FOR SALE,
A quantity of CALF SKI NS, in the rough,
and some horse leather. Apply to
ROBERT SMITH W Co.
No. 58, South Front street.
Feb. 15. daw
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common
the County of Cape lVlay in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, prating that they would
attend to hear what can be alledgcd for ora
gainll his liberation, pursuant to an adl of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a£k for
the relief of insolvent debtors," palled the 26th
day of Jariiary 1798 —Aud the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precinfl, at eleven
o'clock, in rhe forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are request.d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Fell. 14 —taw;w
Princeton—A'ew-Jerjey.
To he Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House ill whirh
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house i 9 two stories high,
of frame work and pointed. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret ffpecious—The back yard
is pived with stones. In it are a well of excel
lent water, an oven, a fmokejhoufe, and house
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, graoery, and convenient stables, with four
stalls for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the street, and 254 feet
derp, somewhat more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reason
able, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
Jamiarv 19. iaw4w
IN THE PRESS,
And. Jpeedily will be Publtfhed t
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and fyitem of Regulations therein :
Written at Set, in the year 1794 •'
And now printed
MY THE AUTHOR.
" A navy wotld be maintained but to an almost
useless purpefe which taking the seamen kept the
merchantmen idle in port, a«d trading vcffals
would be as unprofitably employeJ, if they took
al! thofefcamen whofeflc ill and courage onboard (hip?
of war, would givs them pr teciion and secure
their fafety. We hav. enough for both purpose),
and tiie cultivating hand of attention alone is want
ing to multiply their number. " Money may boy
44 all naval ftures, except mariners; but> uolefs a
44 supply of them i« prrferved, do wealth will be
44 able to procure th«m."
Fcituargr 7.
Bafkenridge—for sale
fT confiftfi of 92®afcres, dlmofl all of which i*:
1 d fiau rich Meadow, (the refidenceof tho late '
E«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the j
East by the river Pafuiek.
Th are on it a number of bmldinga, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and.a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conuflsof 1500 fin# bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirt9 ot said
trad, near 300 other Apple Trees—as also 3 great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries pi the j
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and ,
ForeftTreos, that aad to the beauty and eonveni- 1
ence of the place. Its situation is abtut 18 miles '
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
front Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery ef the deeds. Please to en
quire of . T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at :
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frede
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pearce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
MufcateJ do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Ainiond kernels in calks and boxes
Soft fhell'd almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
The whole of the articles fhippsd as ©f the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Ptter Kuhn.
February 5 djt
Prison Manufattory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prifan of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3Jy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head (tones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heais, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes'made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent far the paifon, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6m
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
J! valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
Street-, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix imches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing »n the north fide, and area very defirabiefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fa<Aor, or others
who rpay have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo'd on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
July yt. m&wtf
Just Published,
And to be had at tj*e Book-flores of Me firs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormkoo,
in Philadelphia, .
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauies and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To -which is annexed f
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra<sHceof
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa<sts and reflections relative to
the Synocbuj Iflcroides, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
c'uity. Feb. 1—
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 2©th
inft. Tickets for Sale in tills Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Olfice, No. 64, South Second-street^ —
Tickets in she Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept ior register
ing and eramining in these, the City of Waftiing
ton, No. Il.and Patt&rfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
| Union.
N. B. The business of a Brokf.r, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcosnting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, House*, «Sce. ficc. be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEEDILY WILL PUBLISHFD,
(Prict 25 Cctfs)
Reflections on Monroe's Visw
or THF. CONDUCT OF THE EXECVTIFE,
As publilhed in the
GAZETTE of t-hc UNITED STATES,
Under the figiiaturt of
SCIPIO,
In which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faflion in this country
as its fonrce, and the motives of tiie opposition
to the measures of (he United States »re exposed.
Fob. I.
FOR SALE,'
ir the subscribers, No. n, Penn-ftrect,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cun/tjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Ilumhurai Charcomia Dorr*
Blue Cloth Tanjibj
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamoodys Checks
Mabaragonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Multnul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoea
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatcbjrs Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perlians of varieui eel.
Meek Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR
,e,ooolb. PEPPER.
Willings Es 5 I'renris,
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious sUre the north weft aorner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Mtdrafs Kkfs. «f ele
gant patten s and best celour..
February 8. drf
FORf SALE,
By WHARION fcf LEWIS.
4 '
No 115 South Front Street*
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th prooi Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
I(I and 2d proof brandy, J drawback.
Madeiia Wvne,
Juniper Berries, &c. &«.
Feb. 9. eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hogsheads belt ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
arid do the business us the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 $
~ WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Do&or or a Ship to the East-Indies.
Enquire at No. 85 Da k Street.
Feb. 6. diw
Ran atvay from the Subfcriler,
On the 14th January Jail,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is of a middling sized ftaturc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brigs her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-ftreot,
(hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors fdd Girtattcr this n«-
ticc, fliall be prosecuted to the severity of the law.
February 10.
NO TICK
ALL persons who have any demands against
the ellate of WILLIAM CO MP TON, lat
of the city of Philadelphia, deemfed, are requsf
tcd to furnilh their accounts, duly attefled. And
those who are indebted to laid eftat •, areearneftly
solicited to make immediate payment, to either of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrall, "1
John Haworth, I AdminiftratoTi.
Samuel Wilcox. J
January 17. WS4W
NOTICE. ■
ALL persons indebted to the eflate 6f Peter GiH
late of the DiftriA of Sonthwark, dec.afed,
are requested tc make immediate payment to ei'her
of the Sutfcribers; and those who have any de.
mands against said ellate, are requested to bring in
their accounts dnly attested, to
John Murphy, ")
Peter Scravendyle, L
Thomas Farrell, J tors,
_ January 16. 'awaww
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornea of
Second and Chefnut ftre«ts,
( Price 3" 8 tbs of a dollar J
Observations on certain Decuments
Con'aincdin No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ciiarce oi spitcnj.ATion against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, FULLY
REPUTED,
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concifc ftatemtnt of
the bafc meacs pradifed by the Jacobins ol the
United States to asperse the charaders of tbcfa
persons who are considered as hoflile their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton anil MclTrs. Monroe
Muhlanburg and Venable, on the fubjea 0 f the
documents aforefaid, and a feriea of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Hamilton
proving beyond the possibility of a doubt, thattltf
eor.nedlion between him and Reynolds wai the re
fultof a daring tonfpiracy on the part of the las
tcr and his afiociates to extort money.
(iSr* A difconnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wlrolefale pmrcha
fers, for cash. Orders to be addressed to Mi.
YotfNO,
February $.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
r Porenoon—Edward F»x, No. j( f
Monda ' south Front-flreet,
r i Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6f
(__ South Front street.
r" Forenoon—John Connetly, Old City
TuefdayX No 73 ("oath Front-street.
* J ) Afternoon—Will,am Shannon, No.
(. 18.? High-ftroet.
IVetMday $ afternoon—Peter denfon, No. 74
fouth T h ird-ftr«t. 74
Thursday \ rorenoon-Edward Fox.
J I Afternoon—Joitn Connelly
Friday ] rycnonn-WHl.am Shanuon.
y \ Afternoon—JoU Conaelln
Saturday Afternoon—Pettr JCtnfon.
[Volume XIII.ii h iiall
®asette. &
=• e *
PHILADELPHIA, »'
_____ Mi
MONDAY EVENING, FEBfUAKV i*. tht
For the Gazelle of the United States. pel
No. I. lat
MR. TlttNO,
Tt has often been said, that the depreda
tions committed by the French, upon the
commerce of the citizens of the United i
Statei, originated in the conduft -of the I
French part izans in the United States, and '
of thoft who had gone from hence toFrance, '
that it was jtiftified by their—that it was
jipheld by them—and that they rejoiced in
the fufferings of those of their countrymen,
•who did not approbate the measures adopted
by the French towards this country. This
assertion has not rested on probability —it
wat not founded upon inference! deduced jjj
from affumcd predicates—i,t was not advanc " I OV<
ed as an opinion, fupporttd merely upon car
the suspicious bafii of logical induftion it
hag frequentlybeen substantiated by evidence
which nothmgbut the hardihood of unfl<nch- Jn(
ing jacobins can deny. By them it has fo<
been denied. By them it is ft'll denied. car
and by them it will continue to be denied, 10
with that undeviating exa&nefs with which
they deny every thing, which militates a- f rc
gaiufl their mod favorite wiflies, however ft r
notorious its evidence may fee, however va- no
luable it nr>ay be in itfelf, or however im- ™
portant it may be in its necessary confequenc-
es, when connefted with the public interest. to
Not with (landing the testimony which has M
been often adduced, is fr.fficient to convince go
any mind susceptible of convi&ion, it may
not be amiss to bring into view evidence of hij
the fa£k, more indisputable, if peflible, than re ,
any which has preceeded—which evidence be
has happily been furnifhed by Mr. Monroe, n'«
the immaculate envoy of the French parti-
«ans. He hasfhewn himfelf worthy of their
confidence, and he has proved himfelf faith- w
ful to their iutereft. •
The duty of an ambassador is too well p'
understood by my countrymen, to require a
dsinute definition. Suffice it to observe here, r
that it is his indispensable duty to follow the hi
jnftru&ions with whi>h he is furnifhed, by w
the government which he reprtfents. If re
his inftru'tions are Specific, so far as he con- j*
forms to them he is to be juftified ; so far as w
he deviates from them, he is refpoiifible for j
heconfequenees—unlcfs a perfeft adherence G
to them, in the experiment, i 3 found impos
sible; and unlcfs, in such a cafe, he is au *
orifed to exercise his own discretion. The
latter, however, appears not to have been t
the lit uit ion of Mr. Monroe, if we may
give cr d;t to his own statement. His in
ftruflions were Specific, and we shall now fee
with wh't fidelity he complied with them.
When Mr. Monroe set out for Fiance,
as Minister from the United States, he was
inftru£ted tajinfift 011 the on the
part of the French government, the
twenty third, and twenty fourth articles of 1
the treaty subsisting between the two gov- , <
ernments, which articles had been violated *
by the French. That thcviolation had tak-
.en place was the opinion of the President ,
of the United States, or he would never t
have issued foch inJlruSiotis to Mr. Monroe. <
Should any ptrfon fay his inftraftions did '
not refer to those articles, 1 will enquire, <
were not the injuries, of which he was in
ftrnfted to complain, .committed in violation (
of those articles? And is it not under fane- ,
tion of those articles, that the French have !
upheld the perpetration of that series of '
piracy, ever since the completion of the
treaty between this government, and the |
rourt of St. James's; which piracy begun
long before the treaty last: mentioned was e
ver heard of. Is it not under the fame fee
ble fubterfuge that their partizans in our na
tional Legislature, hide ihemftlves, notwith- ;
(landing its absurdity, when they efponfe
the French cause, in jaftification of them
against the complaints of our government ?
That the French had violated the treaty, i.e.
those articles of it, was the opinion of Mer
lin, Thuriot and Treilhard, or they would
not have urged Mr. Monroe to declare whe
ther he was inftru£led to demand, or iijijl
ou their fulfilment of the treaty, in an au
dience which they had with Mr. Monroe—
which they did, as appears from Mr. Mon
roe's own ttatement. If it had not been
Mr. Monroe's opinion that the treaty had
been violated by the French, he never would
have replied to the committee who held their
audience with him, as he did, viz. " that
he well know, that, if upon experience it
ihould prove that the departure from the
treaty (hould be found to produce any solid
advantage to the republic, it would not on
ly, be submitted to with paticme, but with
pleasure, by the government, and the peo
ple of the United States."
To enlarge, by commenting upon such
conduct, would be to \yeakcn the evidence
which it conveys to the mind of au honed
man. It is so barefaced that a jacobin mult
command an unusual (hare of effrontrry, e
»en for one of them, to gainsay it. I ques
tion, whether, even Mr. Nicholas, with all
his facility at mis-dating fa£ts, and evasion
of truth, could get aside of this, and re
tain the femblanee of plausible confi lency,
even with his own party. And if Mr. Ni
cholas is uneqnal to the effort, Mr. Gallatin
tnuft (hrink from it; since the deliberate fo
phiftiy of a Jefnite will furcly make but a
feeble opposition to truth, with enlightened
judges, where the vociferous dogmatism of
a sanguineous demagogue proves inadequate.
After this statement, fir, your readers
will not hesitate with refpeil to the fidelity
of Mr. M*nrot in the execution of his mil-
Con. They will fee, in him, exemplified
the fidelity of every French partizan, in
Conriefs, and out. In him is exemplified
the Feelings of them all; the patriotism oT
them all—the principle* of thera all—the
arguments of them all—the integrity of
them all—and the art of them all—for they
all jullify him. Now, fir, if he was difhoa- h»j
eft and treacherous to his country, they all * !l
fall under the fame condemnation, since they
c*n now, approbate his cendudt during his
mission to France. But to this conduit of
Mr. Moßroe, and those who juftify him, rai
the friends of our government attribute the tha
evils which have ruined their individual prof- "i
perity, and which now threaten the ann.hi- '
lation of our government. j,
. XIMINES.
me
Report •/the Committse of I'uviligfs, ho
to nvhom quaj referred, on tbe 16tb injlaht, a •
Motion for tie Expulsion of Roger m
OmswoiD tm/i Matthew I.yov, Mem- a j
btrs vf this Hctfe, for'riotous avd difordtrlj mJ
behaviour, committed in the HouJ'e. Ordered Qn
to lie on the table the 10tb February, 1798. —
Pukl'fhed by order oftie Hois- ofßeprefentatii'as f( j
(Continued from Satu-day's Gazette.) en
Mr. Sbepard't te/limony.
No. VI. ™
On T hnrfday niorniag last, I went into tfce HaU w _
a little btfsre eleven o'clock. After prayer-were
over, Mr. Grifwold cam# into the hall, with a *•
cane in hia hand. He wcn» and set his cane up 11
near the window by the north weft part of the
hall, and fat down n«ar the end c£ th«. Teat next "P
the floor, and took out a letter (aj 1 supposed) * '
and went to readiog it. W1 ilft he was reading, an
soon after Mr. Lyon canse into the house with a his
cane in his hand, went and took bis feat, and w«-nt L)
'to writing, setting his cane befiftehim. I looked Gi
at Mr.Grifwold, and thought he did not fee fc<
or ohftrve Mr Lyon. I then tr.rned my eye off no
from them, and spoke to a'gcntleraan who was a j u
ftracger to them both, and said they wire both a
now in the house, turned my face towards them, w j
and saw Mr Grifwold tken with his cane up, right na
before Mr. Lyon, and he ftrKck him a blow across
his (Mr. I.yon's) (houlder. Mr. Lyon appeared f f)
to be ahoot half way between fitting and {landing. of(
Mr. Grifwold repeated the blow Mr. Lyonfocn
got rut on the of the hall, and made several
attempts to get hold of Mr. Grifwold, but he fail- j
ed ii. his attempts, as Mr. Grifwold kept oal{ of
his reach, and continued the blows until Mr. Lyon ,
retreated behind the fp«raker's chair. The mem- c
» hers then huddled round them so thick faw
I no more of ihe tranfaiSion, until they were fepar
ned ; alter whi.h, Mr. Grfwold came acrcf. the
floor of the hall, and went through the parage by
[ the doer at which we enter the hall, and went
without the bar to ihe south east end of the hall,
I drank some water When (landing near the
I place, wherothe water iskept, without any thing 7"
I in hi* hand, Mr. Lyon came through the floor of
I the hall,, with his cane in his hand, and c?me with-
I ftr the bar. I thought Mr Grifwold did no- fee
J him, until Mr. Lyon had his hand up r® strike him
when he sprang, as I thought, tq get out of the
his flick, but Mr. Lyon struck Mr. Grif-
I wold an his arm and fticulder, asl thought flight-
I ly. Mr.Grifwold then turned upon Mr Lyon,
1 when the doorkeeper sprang in between them.
I The speaker then called the honfe t« order, Mr.
I Grifwold turned and wi.nt into his feat, and Mr.
1 Lyon took a chair, aud fat by the wnerand walh-
I eil himfelf. and remained there until after the
I liQufc was adjourned. ,
WM. SHEPARD. f<
The fercgoing sworn and fubf-ribed the ti
I 17th of February, 1798. X
I Coram, Reynold Keen.
No VII. 8
I Mr. Haven's tejlimony concerting the ajfault 0
twhich Mr. Grif-jjo.d mad; upon Mr. Lyon, in F
the houje of ? eprefentatives, on the morning of I
the istb day us February, 1758. a
I The haur at which the honfe were to meet, f
' I according to adjournment 011 the the preceding
I day, was eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and I
I went into rhe lull a little before this hour. — 3
! Some fhoit time after eleven o'clock, the house '
I attended en prayer. After this was over, 1 was «
I walking in the feuth end of the hall without j
' I the bar, and saw Mr. Lyon come in, with his {
, I cloak on, and go to his feat, u hich is the fourth j
I Ifr m the end of that front iow of feats which is j
I on the left fide of the pafTage leading up to the
' I speaker's chair. I saw him pull oti'his cloak 1
lindtakehiffe.it, and perceived that he had a '
1 I ("mall cane in his hand, which he either put be- I
" I :we«n his legs, or leaned agsinft a chair beside j
- I him, in such manner that the end of it was un- j
f I der the long desk that was before him. After j
. Ihe fat down, he appeared to be engaged either
g in writing or in reading the papers that were
I before him. It was then about half past eleven,
I and the speaker was lilting in his*chair, but had
not called the house to ordtr, an! I then taw 1
Mr Grifwold coming from the north end of the 1
- I ball across the aiea in front of the speaker's
- 1 c hair, with a large yellow hickory cane in his
e I hand. Although I was looking that way, as I
1 I was walk at, I did not notice him much until
j I e came within about fix or eight feet of Mr.
' I Lyon. He was then walking atrol's the floor in
• I . fidclong manner towards Mr. Lyon, and Mr.
• I Lyon was fitting with his face down, looking
I I >a his papers, and as I prefuraedid not pecceive
I he approach of Mr. G ifwold, and if my rae
-1 I T>ry serves me right, I think hi was fitting
I -vith his hat on. As soon as Mr Grifwold had
I one in front of Mr. Lyon, he struck him with
I ,11 his force over his head and shoulders, with
I 'he smallest end »f is hickory cane, repeating
'• I Sis blows as fall as poflible. <Vr. Lyon, I t!/Ink,
1 I cceiyed three blows in this potture, before he
I oft to disengage himfelf fram the desk that
r I vss before him, and the chairs that were on
t I ich fide of him- He appeared lo be then try-
I ng to recover his cine which was under hi»
1 I left, but could not do it by reason of tte vio
•, I ence of Mr. GriTwold's blows over his head and
d I houlders. He then rose from his feat, and got
- I .'iitat the end of the desk, defending himfelf
f, I »ith his arms against the blows of Mr. Grif-
I * old, and then rushed towards Mi. Grifwold,
I ind Mr. Grifwold retreated towsrds thefront of
I'he chair, and andeavoured to keep Mr. Ly
" I >n at a diftanec from hiw>, that lie might ftr ike
e .im more conveniently with his cane. There
(I I was no person fitting on the fame row of feats
ft I 'vith Mr. Lyon when this aflault began. The
e _ |: eaker was in-his chair j and as f< on as the af
j- I f uli commsnced, I expelled he would cry out
I order with a loud voice, but he did not. Lwas
1 I induced to ftippofe this, because I always under
in I ">iiod thst the rule of the house gave the Speak
e- I er a right to call the members to order after
f, I the hour to which the house flood adjourned,
I although there might not be a fufiicient number
j n of members present to proceed to hufmefs.
Mr. Lyon then retreated round the clerk',
table,'ht right hand of thr speaker's ch lir, and
a Mr Grifwold (fill ptiriued him. then
:£ 1 went into the narrow palTage which is between
of the wall of the house and the foeaker's chair,
e. and I then heard a rattling naife as if it were
, rl made with a pair as tongs, hat could not fee the
t panics because the speaker's chair was in the
I way, and I was m>fetf then pading in front of
' " the chair, teeomeup to the parties engaged, as
_ theynuigl.t go through the paffige on the left
in hand fidT of the chair. As soon as they had got'
icd through the paflage, Mr. Grifwold either push
of ed .Mr. Lyon do*n on hit hack in the north
weft terser of the area by his own flrength, or
Mr. I.yon stumbled backwards over some chairs
;h t Rood in his way s from the f.tuaticr. in
1 which 1 flood, 1 perceive how this
happened, but I saw *;r. Lyon on the floor |
wilh Mr. Grifwld'i hrtti and rtioulUer* on lm I pj f
bretfl, Ms, Grifwo|d'« leg* were ciretfcd I
towardj me as I came from the other end of
the 100 m. Mr. Lyon then endeavouring to
<3if<ngaye himfelt from Mr- Grilwold, and liad
rjil'cH himfelf partly up, and 1 then perceived till
that he had ahlack eye. 1 then seized htild of be
Mr. Grifw«ld'> left leg to pull him away fiom J| ol
Mr. Lyon, and another member, whom I after- are
wards noticed to be my colleague, Mr. Elinen- cq|
dors, seized at the fame time hold of Mr. Grif- . ,
wold's right leg with the fame view. As soon '
as we had done this, Mr. Speaker cried out to be'
me and said, " That it not a proper way to take J wh
hold of him j" I afted him why ? he replied, to
11 You ought to take hold of him by the ftould- J)|
er» j" I said it would not hurt him to pull him w ~
a foot or two on the carpet. \Ve tlim in this
marner pulled Mr. Grifwold from ofi Mr. Ly
on, and by this time a number of other mem- an
ber» had gathered round, and.the affray appear- pfi
ed to be ' vcr. 1 then walked back 10 ihclonth. luj
end of the hall, to (he place where I Bo- d when cu
the alTaolt began Mr. Grifwold ihen pafTcd by ou
me, and went to the eaftermr ft (1i»lf <mi which ,
water (tands for the use of the members, and
was drinking, when Mr. Lyon parted by me
with his small cane in his hand, anil wenr to ou
the fame flie'f te drink'with Mr. Grifwold. As en
foor as Mr. Lyon had drunk a little, he lorked of
up, and j;ereeiving that it was Mr. Grilwuld co
w hoftood close by him, he said, " Is it you ?"
and flruck at him with h'ts cane, and hit him on
his left (houlder or cheek. 1 ohferved that Mr.
Lyon's blow was but a'feeble one, and Mr. J* 1 '
Grifwold then retreated from him fix or eight bu
feet, and I then noticed that Mr. Gntwo'ui had th
no cane in his hand. I then saw Mr. Si'greaves <Ji'
lun to the south-east corner of ihe room and get g r
a large hickory cane, and padiog by Mr. Lyon tu
with a good deal of animation in bis counte
nance, he put the cane ir. Mr. Grifwold's hand
Mr. Lyon then put himfelt in a poflure cf de- 'b
fence, and said " Come 011 " 1 then cried out tii
order, and Mr. Thompson, from New-Jersey, th
thin stepping up, and looking me full in the be
face, said, " What is tht matter !" I replied, ; 8
I would have no more fighting here. Mr. Grif
wold then retired, and Mr. Speaker c»lled the .
koufe to order, anct so the affray ended ' n
JONATHAN N. HAVENS. hi
Swcrn and fubferibed the 17th tl
February, 1798, c;
Coram, Reynold Keen. tl
[Tole Continued.'] p
. tl
The following is copied from tie Norfolk pa
per of Feb. 15 —the paper of the 13 th, a
<which contained the preceding part of the
delate, has not hen received.
e<
BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
* a
HOUSE of COMMONS.
Thursday, December.
(Conclup.on of Mr, Fox's Speech.) t
By every amount which I have been a- ;
ble to colleft ; by the report of every per- t
son whom I have seen ; and by the whole t
tenor of the meetings of my constituents, r
I find that men of all descriptions, and f
whatever be their party feelings, unite in j
ahhorrence of the principle and tendency t
of this bill. Ttiey all objeft to the princi- »
pie, because the assessed taxes are not mere- ,
r ly an unjust criterion of wealth, but the word ,
and most fallacious that could be devised j
for in every, part of this metropolis, so fa- (
tal has been the disastrous war in which we .
are involved, that the afieffed taxes are now .
with the greatest difficulty collefted. They |
1 are either in atrear, or postponed, or the (
goods'of the unhappy persons are regular- j
• ly diftrainecf, and they all unite in declar- j
I ing, not merely againfl the inexpediency,
| but againfl the total imprafticability of for- ]
cing the receipt. This is not the opinion
! of one diftri£l, or of one party, but it is
the general opinion of every party of the
f people who have had time to examine the
" provisions of the bill; and really it will
r be a lingular thing, if the house should op
pose thtmfelves to the universal voice of the
t kingdom. Gentlemen seem to forget that
i we aff«£l at leall to call ourfelvet reprefenta
' tives of the people. I know that we are
e no such thing, but we affect to call ourselves
' so. Yet in this house only fifteen gentle-
J men could be found to vote again(t a mea
j fare upon which out of that house, there
was not merely a majority, but an unanim
n ity of disTent ; ministers, in this instance,
'• cannot plead their usual fubterfuge, that it
? is the mere cry of a party. It is no such
e thing. Unanimous disapprobation has come
from the most extraordinery placet. Even
j the common council has been unanimous.
Ii There are but two forts of reprcfentation,
b adtual and virtual. You cannot pretend to
S call yourselves the adtual representatives of
' the people, but you fay you are the virtual
e —prove yourselves so then, by obeying their
n united voice. I hope and trust that you
.. will come round, and (hew yourselves in
is some degree entitled to the name of virtual
1- representatives. I will fairly tell you, that
even if you were to do so, I (hould not con-
II fider it as a fufficient proof that you are e
j- ven the true virtual rcprefeatatives of the
i people, unless I fee yo>i also sympathize
>f with the people. You must make common
r- caule with them. YOll must invite them to
■ e facrifices Jjy your own example. You must
rt lead the way. I remember an honorable
u member, now no mere, who had the hap
'j- C py art of mixing argument with pleasantry,
in a way that was never excelled, Mr.
ai Burke, illullrated this principle by a story
r- very much in point—A French regiment,
' i * in speaking of an old Colonel whom they
er had loft, and of a new one that had suc
ceeded him, extolled the firft to the skies—
" what particular reason have you for your
,» t ardent affedtion for the old colonel, rather
nd than the new ?" said a person to them,
en •< We have 110 other reason, said they, than
rn t bis—the old colonel always faidAllans
lr ' mes enfant 1" The new colonel fays, « Allex
mes enfans I' This was indeed a striking
c#ntra(l, and just in thil manner I aver we
of to aft towards the people. We ought
at not to fay to them "Go makefacriftes
eft «« Let us make facrifices." To rouse
? ot the energy of the people let u» hear of the
facrifices of the Crown. It is from the
"or &%beft place that the example ought to be
»irs It will animate and cheer the heart
in of the kingdom i
;his " S lamrn miferujtnts bahuj/i laborum.''
When men arc called on to give up their tfa
pleasures, whatever Jthey may be, whether
of horses or gardens, it is but reasonable ror
that they should fee the crown participat- arn
ing in the facrifice.—But when instead of j"* 1 '
this, we fee only that new patronage is to he
be obtained out of the fervii>£ of 14 mil- t,K
lions in this way, we mud feel that these P el
are bad symptoms, and that there is no wo
common cause in the exertions ve are cal- air
led upon to make, and we are made to be- dei
lieve that there is something ; n this war, bet
which makes it unfit for all such examples nei
to be given. An honorable gentleman (Mr. ha
Dundas) fays on account of this tax— it in
will only change hands—great Turns will be D'
wanted, he fays, to clothe and maintain the ml
army. I wilh the house to remark thf tx- » n
preflion—l certainly believe him—great ex
funis will go to the army. But is that any n0
confutation to nie ? If 2001. is to be taken
! out of my pocket, what care Ito whom it an
is to be paid ? But this very argument is, mi
and csught to be an objedt of just and feri- by
ous alarm to the nation ; —for while these tei
enormous sums arc to be paid into the hands a 1
of government, it becomes almost the sole P°
consumer. Let us examine the fadt. One P r
tenth of the expenditure of the whole king- mi
dom is estimated at seven millions. That r
makes the total expenditure seventy millions; bs
but perhaps, at this is not the just test, and a"
that there may be evasion, the total expen
diture may be 10c,0c0,0001. On this ™
ground it appears that the public expendi- °»
ture has been between 30 and 40,000,0001. th
a year daring' this war. 'lf then it be true c '
that the expenses of the war are so efTen- Pj
tial to revenue, what a profpedt for us when P'
this source of revenue lhall be cut off! The "
honorable gentleman in speaking of a pledge, 'F
is extremely desirous of overlooking and n<
explaining away his own. He is not will- "J
ing to remember the emphatical pledge that
he gave, never to make peace with ''
the jacobin government of France. What
can we expeft from men who have through tl
the whole of the war shrunk from e*ery
pledge they hare ever given ? It is only by 11
their removal that the nation can be saved
from its present perilous (ItHation. They
are either fools or hypocrites who attempt °
to separate ministers from their naeafures, or
affefl to think that our affairs can be retriev-
ed in their hands. Th* country ' must 1
take its fate, if they are so dull of intelleft, 1
as to conceive that they can be rescued from F
their present situation by the imbecility that 0
brought them into it. We are called upon
to make this dreadful facrifice in order to '
terrify France ! We are to give 7,000,000 c
in one year, in addition to all our other bur- 1
thens, to (hew- that we have what '
their poets call I'smbarras des richejfes.— l er
> rify France ? What, by (hewing that we are J
1 forced to abandon the funded system, which
' has supported us through so many difScul- 1
' ties, because we dare no longer perfifl in it ? '
" Terrify France—by an cxadtion which fliall '
not be paid—whieh will convulse the coun-
try from one end to the other—or which,
" if it were pofiible to harbor the frantic idea
of its poflibility, would certainly paralyse
e all our future operations, and lay us helplef*
" at their feet ! But is it not too much to call
f for unanimity in the further prosecution of
e this war ? They whose incapacity has been
proved by a series of the moll unvaried di
" fafters call for unanimity! can their lata ads,
'» their prosecutions, their violences in Eng
" land and Scotland, and (till more so in Ire
n land, delude the people of France into an
8 idea that they have the hearts of the coun
c try with them ! Take the convetfe of the
e proposition. Would not the miniflers of
the crown deride a declaration from the Di
redtory, in which, if a La Vendee was (till
e raging in France or Ireland now, they still
1 talked of possessing the unanimous sentiments
l " of the people. The treatment of Ireland
e was such as to harrow up the foul—it was
;s (hocking to the heart, to think that a nati
on of brothers was thus to be trampled on
l " like the most remote colony of conquered
" e strangers ; and it was monllrous to hear the
minister talk of wielding Ireland as a wea-
E » pon of force, Ireland which h: was now
himfelf holding under amilitary hand ! The
honourable gentleman takes it amiss that my
le honourable friend (Vould fay, that the whole
:1) contest is about nine or ten worthless men
8 - who are our ministers : and yec, can any
"> man question the truth of the afTertion who
:o has observed their manners :—During the
whole course of our misfortunes they have
a' not failed in their fele undivided objedt—in
: ' r amalling for therafelves and followers, Pla
»u ces, Pensions, Peerages and Honours.—
in But what is the true aud only ground of
al unanimity ? In the support of a minister,
at confidence in the redtitude of his fylltm, and
in his capacity for carrying it into effedt.—
e " Can they expedt this unanimity ? Review
their grounds of the war, the Scheldt,
ze Flanders, the Decree of the 19th of No
an vember, kc. have they not given up every
to one of thef« motives, as well as all that fol
lowed them ? and their talents wtrenow era-
J ' e ployed in explaining away the declarations
P" they had made. They could not, however,
y> so cafily explainaway the quotation thty had
r ' made from Virgil. It flood on record :
potuit qua clarima Virtus
EJ/ifuit. toto ccrtalum efi Corf ore Regni.
Ie- They firft held out to us the tempting oc-
cafiOn of attacking France, united with all
,ur Europe. Year after year their objedt chan
ter ged, as well as their temptation—the brink
m . of bankruptcy—ruined finances—dillradted
ian country—reign of terror infupportable—
ons reign of terror at an end, and consequently
lex the vigour it created—all in their turn were
ng the baits they held out, and all as they fail
we ed made way for new delulions. Every
jht thing was to be effedtcd by our allies j and
!" accordingly four millions one year, two mil
ufe lions for another, and two millions sent by
the Health in the third, were declared to be the
the cheapest way of carrying on the war—now
be we are cut off from this cheap mode of de
:art fence. I was alarmed for the confrqucnce ;
since being cutoff from this cheapest mode'
I feared we must be forced to take more ex-
tfa*aga»t means ; but here I was happHy
i/ifappointed ; for this relief from the empe
ror has been accompanied by lowering ojr
army and na\y at home. Where he h*»
failed, therefore, he has gained. Again,
he said that there was no way of supporting
the bank but by fending money to the Em
peror :he did fend it and the bank
ftopt ! He is now prevented from fending
any more money to the emperor ; and I un
derstand that the paper of the Bank is in
better credit than it was ! In the fame man
ner every declaration that he has ever made
has f tiled him ; but norte so lamentably as
in his finance. He has uniformly in each
December stated the ex pence of the year
millions under what it has turned oirt to be ;
and yet he calls for unanimity ! He can
expeft no unanimity ; and in truth there is
no remedy for our evi's but peace !
And this is not all: we must have peace
and repose, not merely by the change of
ministers and their condign punishment, but
by a thorough change and reform in the sys
tem which has brought us to this ruin, by
a returu to the principles of liberty, not of
power. Without this there could be no
preservation of this country.—l feel it as my
most solemn duty t& speak out. Urdefs
Ireland isinftantly conciliated, and brought
back to the enjoyment of its genuine rights
and communion in the Constitution j unless
Scotland is also reconciled; unless til the
three kingdoms are restored to the blelfingl
of that peace and perfeft freedom of which
they have been deprived, there can be no
chance for the country to rife out of her
present misfortunes; nor until,yeu acconj
pliP* this can you hope ever for peace, b«-
cause until you obtain this, you cannot
speak to France with the power of union;
nor can you delude the Dire&ory with the
boast of ilrength while they fee you aliena
ting by profecutioii every part of the empire.
In the argument which I have taken the li
berty to trouble you,with, I have not wan
dered from the particular measure of the day
because it is inseparable from the causes that
have given rife to it. This is no common tax;
and it is our duty on a question of such
dreadful import, to follow the wife pra&ice
of our ancestors—to consult our constituents.
. Do not let us delude ourselves by the idea
that there is no danger. It is imminent.
No human being can calculate the horrors
to which this measure may give rife. I de
, precate ralhnefs. I know that men are fond
of talking of the theoretical blessings of our
j Constitution—l fay, that unlet you make
t the people feel the pra&ical bteffings, you
3 dr> nothing. Talk of the Jacobin principle*
of the French Direftot'y! No man ha»
t made so many Jacobins as the right Hon.
Gentleman; and if this measure is to be per
c fevered in.there is no faying to whatwefliall
be driven. The tax may be put under the
management of the military. It cannot be
> collefted— what comes next ? They may
:j distrain and whet} they have seized on our
beds and chain, they may take our persons
Contra opera primum, 11 poji in corpora fxviri.
p this house ? lam guilty of no exaggeration.
I am sure that if time be given, you will
11 have from all the great towns from Brrftol,
Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, and
n elsewhere, rcmonfirances as strong as those
j you have seen fr<jnn the City of London,
5 from my constituents, and from the Borough
' of Southvvark. I shudder at the confe
! quences, if you persist. They may be
'* dreadful. It is only by a quick return to
thegenuine principles of our ancestors that
|( . we can be fafe. If we do not I can only
fay,that "thedaysofthefekingclomsarenum
j bered, and that their ruin is not diitant."
jj] The hon. gentleman, (Mr Dnridas) has
11 said, that "if there were men who could
ts " g' ve P eace to t^le country, without throw
as " ministers would be the basest of mankind
'«if they did not yield, and make way for
m "them." If there are any men who feel
j themselves eapable. of restoring peace to
1C these kingdoms, without a changejof system,
a or teftoring the constitution so its vigour.
I can only fay they are more sanguine than
I am; I can speak without any perfonalmo
tivc on the fubjeft, for I publicly declare,
that I never wiu have a feat, high or low,
„ n in any administration, until public opinion
ftiall have decided for a thorough and perfeft
reform, of all our abuses, and for a direst
j lc return to the genuine principles of the Bri
ve ti(h constitution. If there are men bold
j n and sanguine enough to think that they can
j a not only procure peace but tranquiliie the
country without this, let them try it—but
f I will make no part in any such adminiftra
tion -
_ Valuable Property for Sale.*
■W FOR SALE,
jj r | 'HAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
' J. BURY FARM, formerly the reudence of
°" General John Gadwatader, situate on Saftafras Ri
:ry ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
ol- bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of SCO
ra - ©f which are in woods. Th« Building* are allex
)ns ceilent, and consist of a hnndfome Dwelling Houfs,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
cr> horfea, a fpicious treading floor undercover, t
tad granary, two Overfe-r'» houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate bcinj nearly
fW. surrounded by water, i* requires but 'ittle fencing,
oc- and has a good Shad and Herring filhtiy. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
a ' Valtimore market*, with two landings on a navi
-3- gable rivtr but a short fail from Baltimore. Then
ink is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
ted t^le ptcraifes; also. a variety of excellent fruits of
, different kind?. The foil i* moflly a rich loom.-
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
ll v 1 nailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
crc iently situated) as 'may suit the purchaser. The
ail- Stock on said Fa!rm, conflfting 01 Horses, Cattle,
cr y Sheep, will also be difpofitd of. • ■ Far further
j particulars apply to Geokg* Hastings, on the
in premises, or to the fubferioer, in Pfcila4elphia.
nil " ARCHIBALD M'CALL, juw.
by taw6w
tHC Three or four Single Gentlemen»
ow may be accommodated with
de " Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
" e ; On rc&foßible terras, by applying at No. 31,
North-(lrftt, betwesa Fifth >u4 Sixth-ftreeti.
ex- February 13, to<3t%\)t (25a3ettc,
« ■ ■ —=
PHILADELPHIA\
MONDAY EVENING, FRBRI/AHT 16.
«
. authority.
I Nathaniel Rogers, Supervisor of the
i liftriA of New-Hanipfliire—vice Jolhua
1 .Ventutorth, Esq.
Return Jonathan Meigs, jun. one of
* tbc Judges for the Northweftcrn Ttrritory ;
'l vice George Turner, Esq. resigned.
William Hazzard Wigg, Collector
and Infpe&or for the diftrift and prtrt of
Beaufort, in South-Carolina—vice John
Grayfon, Esq. deceased.
Married, on Thursday evening last, Mr.
John J. Malcom, to Miss Deborah Howard,
daughter of Mr. John Howard, of this ci
ty-
Yesterday afternoon arrived in this city,
two Chiefs of the Cpchnewago tribe of
Canada Indians, with five other Northern
tribe Chiefs.
Ex'.retF! of a letter front MaJJaehufetts.
" The diipatchesfrom ourconiiniflionersmnft.
Vie txpeJled with grpat anxiety. *t a moment
so interesting t» the fortune ot this country and
the ha( pineft of its citizens, it seems peculiarly
unfortunate, that any part of thehnafe of repre
f*ntatives (hould exhibit a fpeila le so difTnni
lar to wlni was fcen in our public councils dur
ihj; the infancy and at the commencement ef
American independence—At a time when not
«ur country alone, bu: the whole ci. ilized world
is thrratenet! with a defpotim ns hideous and dif
graceful as any that ever blotted the pagf of
history, and anarchy and barbarism are likely to
resume their gothic reign, it is matter of afton
ift-.Tient with all candid andjudici us men, that
so great a proportion of that house are so li#t!e
imprelTed with the awful magnitude of theimmi
nent dangers ; that they feel so little of that eleva
tion of foul,' that charaiHerifed the republicans
of Greece and Rome, and especially the Ame
rican yaliiots, before and during our revolu
tionary war ; that instead of diverting them
felve» of loc.il and partial confidrrstions, and
facrificing felfifh and party interests to the union
and havpinefs of the whole, they seem intent
only on the means of cultivating' and encreafing
them, v; ithout any refpefl to the happiness of
their country, or with a design to disunite and
disgrace it How !« it podible that the Ameri
can character ftiould he thus changed in so short
a period of timr > Or would the magnanimity,
firmnefs and united patriotism whieh we attri
bute to the early council* of this country, have
been impaired—if all their debates and proceed
ings had been exhibited on so popular a theatre
as that of the present house of rep efentatives—
iffo, (which cannot be believed) we have rea
son to thank God that they were screened from
the observation of the people, and to pray that a
dark and impervious curtain may drawn around
the prtfent house.
" I have been led to these remarks from the
debate on the amendment to the so eign ir.ter
eourfebill The deeilion on this we have not
yet heard, if it has been decided. The queflion
.has been ably argued on the part of the Federal-'
i(lp ; but the want ot true pi'riotifm, as well
as the inveterate rancour and malice of thefup
porters of the amendment, Itr'kf me at rh''s eri
fis, with singular aftoniOiment and di'guft This
is my apology for making to you, any political
obfervarions, a-knowledginp at the fame time,
my wi(h to draw from you further communi
cations."
MR FENNO,
It is to be wished that the managers of
the City Dancing Assembly would inform
the public which of their number it was,
that furiit(h«d Bache with a cbpy of the
President's note, for publication.
Jt is proper that the individual who was
guilty of so ungentliman like an afrion, of
jo unprecedented a breach of confidence
and decorum, (hould be separated from the
reft, left the whole number ftould remain
fnbjeft to the cetifure which such conduct i
deserves.
The author of this communication to
Bache, is requeued to state at what time it
has happened, that a gentleman, having
sent an invitation to another, and received
an answer, has sent that answer to the news
papers ? He is requested to declare, wheth
er the publication of private letters has not
always been obnfidered as one of the mod
difhonorafele breaches of private confidence ?
But if the note mull be published ; if
this breach of good manners and honor,
unheard of in the cafe of any private g"' -
tlemen, was necefTary to be praftifed to
wards the President of the United States ;
why feleft Bache for that purpose ? Was it
because there cxifted a wish to gratify his
peculiar rancour against the President ; or
that the other printers were considered as
incapable of lending their aid to so ungen
tleman like a proceeding ? Either motive is
difliooorable to the managers, and will dis
honor them, unless they free themselves
from the general stigma, by pointing out
the individual to whom it ought to be con
fined. This measure they owe not only to
themselves, but to the fubferibers who ap
pointed them, and to the city at large ; for
it would be far less degrading to the one and
the other, that one person capable of such
conduct (hould have crept into the lift of
managers, than that the whole (hould be
considered, throughout the United States
as composed of such unworthy materials.
This mistake cannot be committed here,
where they are all known ; but elfewbere it
may and will be committed, unless preven
ted by themselves.
j MR. FENNO,
If I rightly understand the opinion given
by the Chief Justice of this state, to certain
judges of the late ele&ion (asftjted in Mr.
Bache'*papcr of the 22d inft.) it contains
v in substance the fallowing principle, viz.
That a* our revolutionary conted with the
British Government, was a civil war, all the
fubjeds of Great-Britain, who espoused the
American cause, and were fettled in this
country at any time before the definitive
treaty of peace, became entitled .to the
rights of citizeofhip within the United
States.
I :m sensible tint gifat deference is due
to thtliigh authority from whence this opi
nion is derived ; hut as in matters of gov
ernment, no principle (however fan&ioned)
ought to be adopted, but on the matureft
investigation, and fulled convidion, I (hall
presume to offer to the public, the following
queries on this fubjedl.
Was it not eftablifhcd in the late constitu
tion of this state, as a fundamental and in
violable maxim, that the people have an un
alienable and indefeajible right to alter, reform
or abolish their government, as they (hall
think proper ; and is not the fame maxim,
recognized with equal folcmuity, in omr pre
sent conftitutiou i
Does it not follow, that when this prero
gative is duly exereifed, by the people of a
ny country, such an adl is of right com
plete in itfelf and not merely inchoate f
Did not the people of the United States
a&ually exercise this right, when by their
representatives in Congress, they declared
these dates to be free and independent, and
that all politicaletnntflion between them and
the state of Great Eriuin was and ought to
be totally dijpilved ?
If these principles be recognized, is it
net evident, that this country from the time
of the foregoing declaration, was of right
completely independent ; that the peop'e there- j
of from that moment, formed a diftin&com
munity ; that of consequence the inhabit
ants of all other countries without diltinfti
on, were to be confidtred relatively to them
as foreigners ; and thar fron tlunce forward
no citizen or ftibje'ft of any othsr state
could obtrude hitnfelf as a citizen of the
United States, without the express fanfti
on of the conftjtutioiis or laws eftab'iifhed
therein ?
Does it not appear manifeft, that these
principles were admitted throughout the U
nited States, from their aflumption of all
the rights of sovereignty ; frbru their con
fifcation of the property of those inhabitants
of this country, who adhered to the King
of Great Britain; and from their refufal to
treat with the British government for peace
on any other footing than that of an indepen
dent power ?
Is it not evident, that France regarded
the United States as a nation of right com
pletely independent, from the treaty con
cluded by that nation with this country
during our revolutionary contest, as well as
from the declaration made at that time by
their government to Great Britain, that
they considered us as having the full pofTef
fion of the powers of independence : and is
it not equally evident that Great Britain con
sidered us in the fame point of view, when
(be treated with us as an independent peo
ple >
Do not these circumstances prove, that
our war with Great Britain, ought from the
time of our declaration of independence, to
be considered as a war between two separate
dates, and not a civil war, which (as the
term civil implies) is a contest between citi
zens of the fame state?
Would not any other conftruftion, impair
the validity of our sovereignty, from the pe
riod when the declaration of independence
took place, until the time of the definitive
treaty of peace; and thereby render dispu
table many of the confifcations and other
publie a£fs, which a a sovereign people we
undertook to perform; and would it not
place our existence as a nation, on the de
grading b3fis of a concession from Great
Britain ?
If then it appears, from evidence equally
founded on righ', on faft, and on experi
ence, that this Commonwealth from the time
of th« declaration of Independence, was,
and ought to be considered as a state com
pletely sovereign, and independent, is it not
manifeft, that the fubjefts of Great Britain,
could from that time become citizens of this
Commonwealth only in the manner prescribed by
our con/litutions to other Foreigners ?
CIVIS.
For the Gazette'of the United States.
MR FENNO,
The rditor rf the Aurora has with his vfual
impartiality,given his readers a partial compari
son of the two la A e!c<st'ons, from which he
draws a drop of consolation to his drooping
friends, by afltiring them that the republican
spirit of the city is rifing —I (hould with him
to extend his calculations into Southwark, but
perhaps it would hurt his feelings tu go there ;
the discipline administered to his party would
prove that a true republican spirit is there rap
idly rising—upon his own principles (such as
they are) th s companfcin will prove lhat his
party i 9 faft declining. October eleflion, Mor
gan had 7(, at the fpeoial one j—At the for
mer Israel had 984, at the latter he had 746—be
fide,the eleflion was declared illegal on the
ground that a number of bad votes were given
in this very diftrifl. It is rather degrading to
attempt to prove that the deeilion o 1 the enm
mittee ol the fentate w»s justly founded, but as
they have been wickedly traduced in fureral
anonymous publications, a ftnall sample of one
of them will fuflice—where he fays, thatjuflice
is projlreted, and their conferences put to steep by
the anodyne of faSion. It will therefore not be,
amift to look at the gross number of votes of the
two ele&ions. Oclohrr eleAion there were 10'9,
at the special one 106S—thus we fee that in the
late flruggle, when the forces of both parties
were muttered, there weie only nine more votes
given than in o<slober, when the sickness too
was fafore that they could not hold the eJeftian
in their usual place on that account. I think
this an inctntef/able proof that the ele&ion was
illegal and justly frt aside. This lie alone (of
Israel being a pcrfecutcd, injured man, by being
wrongfully turned out) certainly obtained him
tooo votes at lead. It was in almost every Is
raelite's mouth, he was turned out, and we will
vote for him—whether he is suitable or not is
no qurflion—he i» injured and we will redress
his wrongs. P. I
CHINESE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
[Ext rails from Sir. G. Staunton's " Authen
tic account ef an Embafjy to China,"
The Chinese arc, perhaps, upon an aver
age better able to support moderate labour J
with little intcrmifflon than nsany of the
lower clafles in Europe. They are bred in
better and founder habits, and continue lon
ger under the dire&ien of their parents.
They are for the mnft part sober ; they
marry early ; they are lef« cxpofed to the
I temptations r.-f debauchery ; are left liable
to contrail diseases which currupt the fp itij
of life ; their lives are more regular and
uniform. It has been calculated, upon the
authority of fafts and ohfervations, that not
withstanding the baneful luxuries in which
the European rich indulge, the difordera
of repletion, inactivity and vice, to which
they arc fubjeEls, the mean duration of therr
I ves exceeds about ten years that of their
inferiors, whom excessive fatigue had con
tributed to wear out before their time J
whom poverty had deprived of the means of
proportional comfort and fubfifte»ce ; who
are more exposed to the inclrmencies of the
weather, and accidents of life ; and less
guarded against their e(Te6ts. as well as more
liable to disease, with less leisure or means
for cure.
The Chinese have no Sunday, nor even
such a division as a week. The temple»
are, however, open every day for the visits '
of devotees. Persons »f that description !
have,from timetotim*,madegrants, though
to no great amount, for the maintenance of
tbeir Clergy, but no lands are fubjeft to I
ecclefiartical tithes. A land-tax to govern
ment has been substituted in the lad reign,
to a poll-tax, as better proportioned to the
faculties of individuals. Molt imports, and
all luxuries, are likewise taxed) but the du
ty being added to the original price of the
articles, is feldonr distinguished from it by I
the consumer. A transit duty is* laid like
wise on goods passing from one province to
another. Each province in China, which may !
be compared to an European kingdom, is j
noted chiefly for the produftron of fomt par
tiiblar article, the conveyance of which
to supply the demand for in the other, rai
ses this dutyto aconfiderable sum, and forms '
the great internal commerce of the empire.
Presents from the tributaries and fubjefts
of the Emperor and the cotififcations of
opulent criminals, are not overlooked is
enumerating the refofcrces of the public
treasury. Taxes, fiich as upon rice, are
received in kind. The several species of
grain, on which many of the poorer clafles
of the people principally subsist, are exem
pted from taxation ; so it wheat, to which
rice is alwayspr«;ferred.
The population of China, as estimated
by Sir George Staunton at 333 raillons, is
considerably more than twice that of the
whole of Europe, andmore than three-eighths
of that of the whole earth, according to the
following statement, which has been deemed
tolerably correft .
Asia, 450,*00,000
Africa, -150,000,000
America, 160,000,000
Europe, 114,600,000
Total, 884,600,000
The Chinese wall,-which is nearly 1500
miles long, (1200 of which arc finifhed
(pastes over a ridge of mountains which in
one place wants but 75 feet of being a mile
high. Both fides of which being now tri
butary, to the Emperor, no longer excites
any wonder in tke country.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Philadelphia, Feb. 3. 1708.
Six Fer Cent. 16/B
I'hree per Cent. jo/j
Deferred 6 per Cent. n/o
BANK United States, 10
Vennfylvania, aj per cent.
North Amerida, 50 per cent.
InfuranceCo. Pennsylvania, 10
N. A. (hares 41 dividend off. »
GAZETIE MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The brigs Gratitude and Hiram have ar
rived at St Bartholemews, 13 days from
the Capes of Delaware.
A Gentleman who left New-York on Sa
turday informs,,that a ship' had arrived
there from Hamburg, which failed about
the 28th of November; a (hip belonging to
the eastward from Calcutta, and an armed
(hip from the Weft-Indies, names not re
collefted.
Arrived at Reedy-Island on Thursday last
the fchr. John, Daggett, 5 days from Bos
ton.
New-Tori, February 24.
ARRIVED. . ' DAY.;
Ship Hope, Edgertou, Hamburgh 84
Brig Bellona, Chroker, Savannah 12
Schosner Weymouth, Guttery, Cape May
2 +
Barbara, Prnce, Ctirracoa 24
Concord, Darnell, Savannah 16
For Hamburgh,
THE S Hlf
.» Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehart, Majler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe iff Robert IValn.
February 16
Notice.
jjT The fliip Star from London will commence
discharging to-morrow morning at Walnut street
wharf, where coniignees are rc^uefl A d to fend theif
permits immediately.
February 26
For Sale,
A good fitna/ion for a Country Seat,
FOR I Y acres of land on the York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
frem the City, the whole being under good fence,
and in excellent order at palturc ground.
For further information and terrtis, apply to
Jonh Elliott Crisson, at his office for the
sale of Real Eilates, Conveyancing, icc. No. 54,
High-ltreet.
id mo. tf> h. nwiw
OVAL BOTTLES."""
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti
ty of Claret Bottle* of a right fize —Far sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
Jlnuary u jtaw6w.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK: February 23^
Yafterday the illuflrious Washington
entered his 66th year..
The citizens of this metropolis, with that
just admiiation and regard for distinguished
merit for which they are confpicuaufly char
a&erized, »elebrated the day wi h cordiali
ty and mutual congratulations. At one
o'clock a federal salute resounded to the day
of his nativity.
In the evening a numerous and splendid
colleftion of ladiel and gentlwnen, amused
themfclves with a grand ball at the Tontine
A(Tembly-room, where they partook of a
sumptuous repast. Mr. Baker exhibited,
to much advantage, the inimitable portrait
of this great man ; artd while ihe intrinsic
merit of the pidfure alone presented an ad
mirable fpecimcn of the fine arts
gratification of the ehafte connoisseur, re
colleftion naturally called to mind the un
paralleled services and eminent virtues of
this illustrious sage.
The Museum, which abounds with a
great and well disposed colle&ion of natur
al and artificial curiofitics, handfomely
illuminated. Mr. Baker's affiduily in sol
iciting and arranging such valuable speci
mens of nature and art, merits high com
mendation.
The New-Tart Insurance Company, fmce the
commencement of their bujineft in March,
1796, have fettled and paid lojfes, viz.
By ordinary Sea rifques 190,267 72
American veflels and cargoes
captured by the French, 209,386 30
British veflels and cargoes
captured by the French, 53,978 16
American veflels and cargoes
captured by the British, 67,713 52
Total amount of lofles, dols. 521,345 89
NEW-THEATRE.
On Monday, a6th February, 1795,wi1l be present*
ed the last new comedy, called
THE W I L L,
Or, a School for Daughters.
To which will be added performed these two
years) fhtf fa voritemufical Entertainment,called
The Children in the Wood.
Sir Rowland, - - Mr. Warren
Lord Alfori, - . Mr. Hardinge
Walter, - - Mr. Harwood
Apathy, ... Mr. Francis
Gabriel, ... Mr. Bliffctt
Oliver, - - - Mr. Taylor
Ruffian, . - . Mr. Hunter
Helen, (the firfl time) Mrs. Hardinge
Jnfcphins, ... Mrs. Oldmixon
Winifcrd, - . Mrs. Do&or
Boy, - - - - Master Warret»
Girl, . Miss Hardinge
The doors will be opened at half past.
five, and the performance begin at half past fix
precisely.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 2o'clock,
and from 16 till 4on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rici's book-flore,
No. 50 Market-street, and at the Office adjoining
the Theare. VIFAT R£SPUBLICA
BALL. ~
Mr. Byrne's 6th Ball.
WILL be held on Tuesday next, at
O'Ellers's Hotel—Genjlemens'
tickets at one dollar, to be had at the hotel,
ladies tickets of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne, No.
114, North Sixth street.
The days of tuition for young Ladies,
offifted by Mrs. Byrne, are on Tuesday and
Saturday mornings; in the afternoon of the
fame days for young gentlemen, audThurf
days and Saturdays for gentlemen.
Feb. 26. d3t.
St. Andrews Society.
The quarterly meeting of the St. An
drews Society will be held on Wednesday
evening 28th instant at 7 o'clock, at Oellers
Hotel. William H. Tod, Sec'y.
Feb. 26. Hi 13c w
This Day is PubFtfhed,
By John Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia,
A PLAN TOR THE CONDUCT or
FEMALE EDUCATION,
Tn Boarding Schools, Private Families, and Publie
Seminarian.
By ERASMUS DARWIN, m.d.f.r.s.
Autkur of 200new:a, and of the Botumit Garden.
To which are adde I.
RUDIMEhTS OF TASTE,
IN A SERI E S OP LETT RR 3.
From a MOTHER, to her DAUGHTERS.
Fmbellifted with an elegant Frontispiece.
f Price, neatly bound, gilt and teiiertJ. tne deltar.J
CONTENTS.
The FemaleCharailer, Music and Dancing. Read
ing, Writing, Giamrgar, Languages, Phyfiog
romy. Arithmetic, Geography, History Natu
ral Hillory, Rudiments of Talte, Beauty, Grace,
Drawing and Embroidery, Perfpeflive Heathen
Mythology, Polite Literature, Novels, and
Sciences, Morals, Compassion Veracity, Pru
dence, Ju.tice, Chastity, fortitude, Baffifulnrft,
Temperance, Religion, Addrefi, Convention.
Exereife, Dumb Bells, Air, Bed-rooms, Fire
grates. Care of the Shape, Cold Bath, Dicf»,
Ear rings, Powder, Amufrment", Chtfs, Pu
ci(hn:«nts, Rewards, Motives, Lilping, Stam
oieri.-g, Squisiiing, luvolnntary Motict s, S*cl.
led Fingers, and Kibed Heels, Beds, Rbcuraa.
tifm, Dier, New Milk, Economy, Schuol-eo'u
cation, ufesef, Catalogue ol fuiuble Bopks.
ailso just r'usT rus ttHio,
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable 1 olluiliun of intereftmg and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy effe&saf youthful in
nocence and filial affeilion —ln prose and verse.
Dcfigncd to improve and amufethe rising gene
ration. Embelliffied with gsn elegant Froiif
piecc and feventy-thret Cuts. Price 75 cents.
Feb. a 6 jt
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cherts of excellent otttfky, for sale, cor
Acr of Second and Pint fireets. pfc a6—eotf
THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for Talc by WfLI.IAM YOU NO, i>o.
Corner of Secosd an;l Ch fnut- recti,
In one large volume, S vo. .
(Prut of the CLf.msn f>:fgr t neatly uouaJ. 1 iollart *Q
tents ; fine i» iajrdt, J Julia/; J
AM ERIG AN'GA 1 ETTEE R,
EXHfBJI IM(S, in alphabetical order, a much
i mote full and accurate Account, than ha*
b en given,, of the State*, Provinces, Cottmut,
Citie*, Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bay*. Harbours,
Gu'fs, Sounde, Capes, Mountains, Forts, India*:*.
Tr»l «8, »i>d New on tkc AMERICAN
ONI iNENT, aifo of the W*it-India lflands,
jud other Iflavds appendant to the Continent, and
ihole newly difcovcYed in the Pacific Ocean > De
ferring thi« Kite't> Boundaries. Population, Gov
crnrrttnt, .Commerce, Manufactures,
Curiofitieg, &c ol the leveral Countries, and ot*
tl e»r important Civil Divisions'—and the Longi
tude ar:d Latitude, the Eeartngi and Distances,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lage J—with a parti uiat Befcription of Tb< Gnr*
gia JVcJfaim Territory, l'he whole conipri&ny up
wards of Seven Thopland dittinA Articles.
and compiled from the bell Authori*
tie, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the dire<sHon of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, x>. o.
/Author of the American Universal < Geography—»
Fellow of the -meriian Academy of Artsan4
Science* —ar.d Member r.f the Massachusetts His
torical Society.
[lll Iwtflrated with new and neat Maps.]
( Pulljbed according t* a£t of Congrrfs )
Also, FOk. SALE, at alove %
Mr. Morse's. Universal Geography,
In two large Z vo. volumes, price 4 Uols. JO eti,
Ditto; abridged, at 1 dollar.
February 26. CO4C
TO THE
Citizens sf the United States.
r | HE Mrjjtunary Society of Thiladelphia, impreff
-L ed with the in-portaoce of ameliorating the
condition and augmenting the happiness of man.
kind, are impelled by motives of rel gion and be
nevolence to attempt the propagation of christian
and civil knowledge among the aborigines of Ame
rica.
Those who hive experienced the blessed effttSU
of real religion, mull feel adefire to diflcrpiiLite
it, principles, wherever the fuotftrpsuf a fellow
man may he found —An opportunity now offers,
for such to evince their finrerity by laboring to
g ther in accomplishing the aucient predi«fl.on~
" The knowledge of ill Lord shall cover the earth at the
via trs do the sea
Living in an age when the devaflations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the blcfftngs ot
peace, all good and enfight ncd citizens will con
cur with us, that every ltep which tends to intro
duce the a t? of civilization among the I dians,
must he highly favorable to the interest ef the Uni
ted States.
T he easy aceefi which may be had at present tp
the different tribes, hy means of government ef.
tablilbmer.ts in various parts ef their territory
their tranquil state, and the freindly difpofitien of
some of their chiefs—difpofe the Society to I elievs
that their address is not premature. They prelum*
that nothing more is necessary to excite the atten
tion and fcture the support of their fellow citi»
Zens than to present their plan to the conflagration
of tkepublie,
THE Subscribe*!, penetrated with a eonv!c»
tion that their duty and happiness are involved in
promoting the knowledge and diffuftng the spirit
of the ( hriftian religion, da affoeiate for the pur
pose of fupportinga miflionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and the frontier fettleoients of the
United States, as an eligible mean of accomplish
ing so desirable an ohjefl—Aware of the perni
cious efteiSsof party spirit, they think u necessary
to adopt for their guide (as well a« to exhibit to
the world the principles by which they will be
geverned) the following
CONSTITUTION.
I. The nffoc.ation shall be called the Mutuary So.
11. Aryf person signing the conduction and paying
the lum of one dollar to the treafurcr and the
furthci sum of one dollar yearly, is a member
during the payment of hi, or her fukfcription.
111. Ihe iociety (hall ele£t by ballot an adting com.
mittce to consist of a trcafurcr, secretary and
ven ntmhers, one third of whom shall be re*
newed every fix months—five (hall f.rm a quo
rum to tranfaS btCnefs and have power to »U
special meetings.
IV. Ihf society (ball meet ev> ry three months at
an appointed place to enafl the necessary laws
and deliberate on the report of the committee
refpe<3ing the state and. progress »f the inftitu.
tion.
V. No miflionary shall be considered qualified who
is not capab'e of praiSifisgot teaching some ufe
ful art as well as a rstienal system of religion
No other Uji shall be required, excepting, evi
dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
feilarian names and adopt limply that of Cu*is>
TI AM.
VI. Should the funds of the society permit, insti
tutions f. r inCrniljng the Indians in the agri.
cultural mechanical arts, ftiall be eliablifhed
among them.
VII As soon as a fuflicient" number have sub
scribed, the committee flnll puklifh under their
infpeiiion a periodical mifce lany en/itled the
" Mjßlonan" and.the profits anting from :Ke
sale (hall be applied to the funds of the society,
*.* No alteration or amendm nt (hall be made
mthcahove conftitti ion without the confvnt of
two thirds of the members, and every such im
pri vi ment must be proposed th:ee months prior to
itldifcuflion
'1 he constitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-ftrcet.
%y~ Ihe Little Turtle, one of the mod influ-iT.
rial characters among the Indians North Weft of
the Ohio (who is now jn this city) is very anxious
to forward the view« of the focety. The Inter,
prefer, capt. Wells, isalfo very fauguine as to the
piofpeJt of success, and promise. all the aid in hit
power. February 34.
TO LET,
And poffcflisn given the ill April next,
TheHoule No. 258 High-street,
At ptefent o supi d by I'. Bctui, Esq.
.Applyto
Edward Shoemaker,
No. 227, High (treet,
February 24 codsw
City Commifljoner's Office,
January I Mb, 1798.
FOR THt INFORMATION-OF THt CITIZENS.
fillowing arrangement is made by the*
A Caid coinmifiieners, for cleansing the
{lr«ets, &c
DiftriiA No. the north fide of Vise
street, to the south fide of Mulberry flre« j to
lie tinder the fuperinttndance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut {[rcet to
the north fide «f Spruce street, to be under tit
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoole.
4. From the roith fide of Spruce street, to the
foiWh fide otfedar ftrott, to be under the fu.
perintendxnee cf Hugh Roberta. mwfimJUST RECEIVED,
AND for sale, at
\V. Young's Book-store, _ (
Corner of Chefnnt and Second \
(. u ria* 50 Cents J
Camfes cjui fe font oppofeci aux (
Projres du comaii.rce, entrs LA PK ANCB et les
EIATS-UMS de L'.VK'.ERiqi K.
Avee les Moycnn de l'acctlerer ; <
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationale 1
dc l'Angleterrc, dc la France, and des i
ETATS-UNIS. i
In fix Lettres, addressees a Moiifiearlc Mar- <
quis de la Fayette. Traduit fur le Ma
nulcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien |
Membre de la Legislature dela Republiqae .
du Maflfachuffet.
Le Comm.ice eA la portion la plus importante des
(Richeffes Nationales.
LeTrident de Neptune,eft lc fceptredu Monde.
Liuiui. '
Or causes that have been eppofed to the
PROGRKSS of i OMMERCE botwetn
FRANCE and lAe UNITED STATU of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, dire&ed to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Translated (into Frcnc-b from the original Eng
Viih Manufcri t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber ©f the Legislature of M affachufetts.
Commerce is the nioft important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
■ ■The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. Lemiere.
AT a juncture when the quefiion of
a Commercial Treaty "with France may soon
become an ohjeit of difculTion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufefui to those eitizens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubje&, under its various af
peds ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furniihed with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufclulnefsof this tranfadion.
'X his work is principally djftinguifhed by the
richness of the obfervauons, the pcrfpieuity of the
i4cas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. A t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work *as liktt a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeiul produce. It is addref •
fed to the unfortunate La Favette, in letters,
which fug tive form, the author who could only
devote a lew weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumflanc«B are in many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
ihuy were in the year 179?, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
fulc of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince h*m that io all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, every thing may be expc&ed from the ef
forts of truth and julUce.
LETTER I.
General of th>3 obftacles,'created in France,
to prevent the extension ot commerce, with the
United Stat s—Obfervatiwos made in a tour, taken
for that cxprefs purpose, upon fonie French manu
fadurt i(a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices drifting in France,
againll the quality of certain produdions of the
UKited States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Uemondration ul the bad policy of
layii.g duties en their importation, principally on
provisions in and on fait provisions, and
jifh inya ticuiar—Confiderations onthe regulations
«f the Frenck cu^om-houfes.
LEl'i ER 11.
Obllaclcs to the extension ot trade with Fran e,
pioceedirig from circumtlances and individuals in
tlie United States—Proofs tha these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they hava
beai removed) by time and th« wifdomof govern-
Hiiiery #f the infWience of the American
paj>or money— [ rinciplw *?. d abllraA
conliderations on nwncy and circulation—Causes
of the llagnation of .American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condud
of tfie French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifheson this fubjed—
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER 111.
Effayin tb« form cf a table&u t to appraise the im-
into the United States/row France and Eng
land un'tcd. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furciftied from France or
England —lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would have allnniihed a meie theorist) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kin i of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defiled, aie the only sure guides
the statesman can take for the policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the apparent cx
adnefs of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the propbtfie* of Lord Sheffield have already been
eontrad:6ied by experience, and by Ceverai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only grout don which N he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the requiied condition, will be better able
than Gieat Britain to iupply us with several articles,
which the authoi al ots exchifively and forev
er to the latter; the author's partiality ajtEl on (if he
has any) dors nut appear to have at any time created
a paitiiuity ojjudgment, i he result of this calculation
is that in <789, that is to fay, at a period when arts
a».d manufa&ures did sot 'prcfent in France the vast
means and probabiU y of extension which they now
pofTcf*. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given Quantity of the produdions of France
gnd I ngland united, but also to enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and »he industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France} this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excellent work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta~
Heau is by bo means fupe»fluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation' f provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied i and it is upon this argument, that
the author eftablilhes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admiriion of the produc
v tionsot his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time —Opinions of the outhor on the finances, on the
•ftcAs of national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in his National /frithinctic printed at
Boston in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, thepubl c and private credit
•f the United States—the happy condition of Ameri.
ea, and (he miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der trie mofl (hiking lelaaens, by very cu ious cal
culations—Observations en the wisdom and economy
which prefidc over the public expenses m MafTachu
fctti. In this place the patriotifin of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which a just national
pride inlpires* The ancient governments of Europe,
fays he, will lesrn from us the art »f economy in
recompenfing'he feivices which the country receives.*
Among jl ws HiL tll v be seen % that men are chojen for places,
and ngt places for men. This letter concludes with a
general view of the public property, deposited in the
-Bands of the government of the United States.
LETrER V!
General examination of the defeds of the commer
cial policy of France with refped to the United Slates ;
many of these observations have produced the cff'dj
for which they :were intended, others Hill remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in' futurb, as a
good chart viika the skoals and rocks. The am ho.
concludes hit 'work, by fixing hit attention on kit
country, and the great men who have rendered it il
lustrious; and *e take a plea!are in quoting what he
fayi of the prcfent chief ©t our government. To
praile a man when he e<crcifes a diitinguifhed em
ployrncnt. it common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he it in private life, it it the homage of ]
fincetity. <
< Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les habitant det ttats-unts, fuivant dans leur
choix !e Kirn public, & excites par un principe de
recon no* llar.ee, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du ncuveau congres. Sea efforts, pour pre
server ie peuple des intrigues formees p»r le gouv
fruement Anglais contre fa liberie, le reudiicnt trea
fufped a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir. Le people,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un dc fes
reprefentans dans le premier congr? s» De ce nombr*
etoit audi M. Samuel Adams, patriote aufli intrepide,
qu'infatigable La revolution Americaioe doit beau
coup a la perseverance de set tr*vaux, 6c a fes talens
diftinges. O.ofe que M. John Adams a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eftfait a Paris en >783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que grand
politique, Et dans Ton ouvrage fur la defenfe de la
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can
noiftances qui forment les vrais jurifconfultcs &. les
hommesde lei; connoiflances nece(laires, pour rem
plir honorablement les fondions dc president du fenat
des Etats-unis.
' FTO T I C E. "
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as sever was ia this Country before, has been
been lately ereded at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onihe East Bank of Hudson's River, ila.e of New-
York, where any article of various forts and shapes
may be executed, as well as earthern llovcs upon a
new conftiudion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron Hoves or open chvm»»ies;
they are besides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing Dart of the said ware. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Aoplv as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Feb. 19. eod4w
r To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament of
William Heysham, deceased, and posses
sion givwi ir«i mediately, a valuable property in Arch
street between Third and Fourth flrects, confid
ing of theheufc, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ereded, a ftahle, and other improvements.—
Thekoufe is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, borh with pumps
in goop repair. The stable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poffefles with refped te free vantila-'
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
person wifhing&o poflefs an aligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or > Atfting Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, j
January II $
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the ellate as Willam Pleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and thofc who are indebted
1 to the fame, are delired to make immediate
1 payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, } ~ . ,
No. 2J . So. Third-street. $ Adm ""fi r r
, January 4. dtf
! To be fold,
, A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, conuin
t\. ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
1 (lory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. Gtuate on th; Irish trail lane, in the
s townlhip of Moyamenflng, about one mile from
• the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
: the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
■ elegance, ltand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
Neui-Tork, January 14, 1798?
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
, Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
r For Publishing by Subscription,
® An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
I By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Miniiter of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Hiflorical M»-
' moirs, (which ran through two London «di
™ tionsin a few months,) will be comprised ia 2
' vols, oflavo, of 400 pages each.
s They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
e and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
1, ume---one third of the Subscription money Itobe
• paiul on delivery of the firft valume—the re
' mainder when the work iscowipleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
™ acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made
v (5" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
t Room, Ne. 149, Water street —the Printing
e Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
e Bookstores in New-York- Also, by William
n Young, corner r f Second and Chefhut street, snd
II the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
y Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
„ compleated with the utmost dispatch.
e Feb. to. eodam
PROPOSALS,
y FOR PRINTING BT SUBSCRIPTION,
t A NEW AMD INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and «vis
it demeanor®, by which public and private proper
e ty, are. at prcfent, injured and endangered :
c And fwggefting remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAC I STR ATE,
t Afling for the counties of Middlefcx, Surry, Kent,
aud Eflcx ; for the city and liberty of
n fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS,
y This work will be printed in a large odtavo, on
- . an excellent Engiifli paper—lt will be delivered to
- j fuhferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
' ' of One Dollar and a half i although the la(l London
» edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, iv
™ now fold at f wo dollars and a half. To non-fub
fcrrbers the price will be raised.
1 Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
, fcription, it willbe committed to the profs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
. I £5" S&bfcriptions will be thankfully received at
. ' Benjamin E)aviesV« book-lloie, No 68, High
, street, and by mok of ths other booksellers ia the
, city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
, nel Campbell, and A. Druitaitud, in New-York.
| January 31. iawu
PROPOSALS, i
/» RT THI
Insurance Company of North America.
For Insurance against Fim, on Dwelling-
Hoiifei, Ware-Houses. and other Buildings (and !
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from '
Philadelphia, in the United States.
!. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firft
clafo, will be undertaken at a premium of aliout 1
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous 1
rifques a larger preirinm will he required, which
will vaiy according to circumstances, fcidom ex
teeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
stances, where the property insured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered Hill more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised .
according to circumstances
Hoafes nnd Vv'are Houfcs, the walls and parti
tions of wkich are wholly of (lone or brick, well
ctmftriiilre!, so as to ba guarded as well as may be
againlt fires from within, and tree lrom extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the iirl
elate, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and not si an extra
hazardous kind, irt calks, bales, or packages, de
poCtcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; i»nt if more than this sura
is required to b« insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. lnfurances will also be mad< on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiumrproportioned
to tha rifq*e. But it is Hot easy to arrange these
ander particular heads or clalfes, so as to describe
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
ilanccs a tending it ; and these circumflances wili,
in general,, appear from the description accompa
ny. ug the application.
Buildings partly conflfu&ed of brick or stone,
arc preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the {tile of building, how th»r are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are eonfiderations t«
be taken into view. And with refpeit to goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such ilate to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhaily removal, or to be do
le!) in time of confifion and hurry, are all cir
cumflances of weight; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
load by the parties . •
ifh The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu
latcd premium be paid ; but it fliall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
td. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
penses than the payment of the premium of the re
newed fcrm, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were underflood by the Infur< rs at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is effcntial to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he.
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeifl of insur
ance may nevcrthelefs be open to treaty"for a new
insurance.
3d. If ary other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mull be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
they are not to be confidercd as infnied otherwise.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafionrd by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion j or occasion
ed by gunpowdi r, aquafortis or other thing of the
ltke kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty iafured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds aad other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miflary Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paiHtings, medal-, jewels, gems, antique
curiofitien, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty five dollars eaeh, to be oonfidered as insured un
defs particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
I 7th. No insurance will be made for a fiiorter
term than one year, nor .'or a longer term than fe
vca years. Persons choofirg to insure for seven
years shall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third ol a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Loflss sustained by fire *n property infurid,
(ball be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defciiption of the property to be insured will
be expected with each application, to be made by
' a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
furauce, and attefled before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowlejgc of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpeil to Houses and other Buildings,
ift. The site and position ; describing the
flreet or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
| cumftances to the extinguifliment of site
in cafe of accident'; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are ellabliftied, and
engines provided,in the place or neighboui hood.
t 2d. '1 he materials »f which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
! each, as well as to the sulfide walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeflive heipht and
' thickness ; the style of the roof and ef what
materials ; hew secured by battlements or par
' ty walls; what kind of accefsto the top of the
house and to the chimnies 4 whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and ttc style in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
, manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the ige and condition of the building,
and. haw occupied, whether merely as a dwel
-1 ling house, or for any other, and for wiiat pur
pose i also an estimate of the value of the houle
or build ng independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpefl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
• each way : what kind of buildings are within
' that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
-1 ried on, and particularly whether there be any
' extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
r sited in the house, er within the distance afore
-1 said, and of what kind.
' KefpeiStng goads in Houses, Warehouses, Btc.
I> A general description of the building in
which they are kept will be expeiled, similar in
all refpefls.as to the danger from lire, with that
required for Insurance an the buildings them
selves.
a. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whnle
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
efiimate of the value of each kind propdfed to
be insured ; hut in the last particular mi»ute
nefs of description is not rxpe&ed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in varmus degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable k«rd opened-
Gl.Hfs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glafles, jewelery ; and all 0-
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or irore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moiflures, or particularly 1
obnoxious to theft on in alarm of fire.
Letters pofl paid, directed to the Secretary of 1
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended 1
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme- J
i-diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By order of the Beard,
EBENEZEit HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Office of the Insurance Company a/" North )
America ; PhiUd. Feb. x, 179S- 5
Feb. 14. |
James C. & Samuel VV. Fisher. |
AT TH7..R STORE,
N..=13, corner of Arch and Front flrsct.
ifAFE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunk*, altered j
A kw bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puilioat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicl crry and MaArafs di«o
Ditto Gurr-ahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hy-fon Tea
ATfo—lSoo boxes best London Window Glass, *
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they will difpof-i of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3tawtf
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR. SALE*
A few bales Baftas, CufTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, ")
St. Vincents, V RtfM.
and Bengal j
300 casks RICE, and
A parcel of Jhip building RED CE£)AR.
Odt. 27.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 .Walnut-street,
INFORMS thofti who wi/h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeA in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened hia Library, con
fiding <if upwards of 1500 volumes, the b«ft cal
culated to afford tither ufefu\infiru<slion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogs
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. u. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanish Languages, exeeuteu with ac
curac> and dispatch. eoirw now. I
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GU.OOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpetfl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years retidence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, she has mii )e a fupenor arrangement for
the mote convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite J
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeiflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Straetj.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The situation 'l3 perfe&ly healthy: and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. sa, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
. against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfa of Reprefenfatives, authorizing the said
[ Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftru&ing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcover the whole nature and ex*<nt
( " of the offence whereof the said William BJount
' " stands impcache.., and who are the parties and
" affociatestherein."
[ Printed by order of the House of Reprefentati'ves
December 2Q *• §
■ School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. Second-flreet, cornr-r of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Englijb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Scien&e, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout tha Unitdd States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
I Sheridan's Di<ftionary, the sixth edition, in one
• large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 d®l 75 «fs.
F Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, aud
I writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
t flieathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
. blank Books, Wax, Wa*fers, and other articles, ef
. the best quality, used in the counting house, or
1 public office,
f £5" Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 0&. 34. —3aw6w
t Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
! THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, tn one vol. oftavo.
By William Youngßoolfeller,
• Mo. il, Second ltreet, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Prut t in loardt 8 7 I 1 Cents)
. Naatly printed on fine American wove raedSltii
r P^P 61 "'
A V IEW
J Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftaHiftied in ths elements
of Medicine, ot-*»he late celehrated
.JOHN BROWN.M. D.
, With an attempt to correil some important er
. rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly feledled from the records ps their pra&ice, at
the General Hofp.taJ at Calcutta,
Br William Tates s3* Chas. Maclean.
1 To which isfubjoined, a Treatise 00 thea<9ion
1 of Mefcury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirefl debility.
Andadilfertation onthe source* of Epid; mirand,
Pestilential diseases; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fa/Is, that they ne
ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain viciflitudes of
the atsr.ofpliere, by Charlss Maclsan, ef
Calcutta.
Nov. ,1. Jut
PAOP9SALS for PUBLISHING
A new Commercial W*rk in the C«y *f
Philadelphia, te be entitled
The Philadelphia Price-Current,
AND
Nautical Recorder.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber having been engaj -
ed in carrying on a publication in Boftal n
under the title of the ** Brjion fries Current, ai <£
Marine Intclligtnccr a work, for utility and ex -
tent of circulation, equal perhaps to any publica -
tion of the kind in Europe or America, is no**
induced to rifquean attempt to publilh a fimilt *
paper under the patronage of the citizens of
ladclphia. He makes the attempt from a perfua*
fion\hat a publication for general benefit, apd «-•
tensive information, will receive as much support
from the liberal minds of the merchants and others
of this city, as places of less opulence in the Uni
ted States—and although little immedinte benefit!
(hould result to the citizens tram such a publica-*
tion, yet it might prevent an idea abroad which,
foine have industriously circulated, that the trade
of this extenfivj city was on the decline, and con
traded into so narrow a sphere that it would Hot
fjpport a Price Cnrrent.
The general anxiety that prevails in the com
mercial world at this critical period, renders a
work of the kind particularly ufefu) and neceffurf
—Nor can the utility be doubted, when it is con
sidered how cxtenlive the trsdp and particularly
the infuranes arc affe&ed in this city.—A, careful
publication of the failing and arrival of veflels in
different parts of the world—advice from vefiels
at fta—accidents happeningiin and out of port,—
are ever circumstances that ought to be known by
the merchant and underwriter, and ohe irforma
tion of this kind may faVvi more than the cofl of a
hundred papers through life. The Editor engag
es to use his utinoft endeavors to make it honora
ble and profitable to himfolf, sensible that it can
be done only by making it acceptable to his patrons.
This publication will contain, a general Price Cur
rent ofaljarticles ofimportationßeexportation,with
the duties on importation, in this City, New-York
and Boilon—Foreign Price Currents, in general;
to obtain which the various European publications
will be procured, particularly those of Lontlon,
Liverpool, Briflol, Hamburgh, &c.~all arrivals
-nd clearances in the principal ports in America,
and every article of nautical information which
cen in any manner be ufeful or interesting to mer
chants in general. It will like\\ ife contain Pricas
of Stocks in the different parts of the States,
corrfetflcd by eminent Brokers—Custom noufe im
portations—Laws, Arrets and Decrees of commer
cial tendency, &c. &c.
CONDITIONS,
ifi. To be printed with a new type, on goodpaper
of a large crown size, and contain 4 pages folio,
ad. It will be published twice a week, and deliv
ered t<> fubfci ibers in the city early on the morn
ings of publication, and forwarded to those out
of the city with the greatest expedition and care.
3d. The jjrice will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one on the delivery of the firlfc
number; one dfcllar at the expiration jof three
month s :, and th- residue, at the end of the year.
4th. Subfcrihers for the work in any other place
than the city, to pay one half years fubfeription
money. * N
sth. The work to begin as soon as five hundred
fubferibers arc procured, of which notice will
be given.
Subscription papers will be placed ir the
various public offices, &c. aird fentin the courfeof
the week, to the citizens in general, for their pat
ronage. JOSEPH N. RUSSELL.
February 20. tuf&m.^t
Recently Publijhed,
And imported from England, by William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Motus a n J. Rhees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes .in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illustrations of Prophecy :
In which are elucidated many predictions, which
occur in Isaiah, the writings of the Evan
gelists, and book of Revelation ; which are tho't
to foretell among othsr great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the mankind,
the overthrow of the papal pow#r and of ecclefi
aflical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
and the subsequent melioration of the ftata of the
wcrld : together with
A larg; collection of Extracts,
Interspersed through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
; Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lewth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hem y More, Bengeliu?,
Dr. John Owen, Daubuz,
[ Dr. Creffener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, 1. owman,
Brcnius, Bilhop Newton, and
Bidtop Chandler, Bishop Murd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of is
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a considerable number of fails or ob
> fervations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authenticity, ules, and ebfeurity of the apo
f calypfe, and the genuinenek of the Hebrew pro
s phet*; on the rapid corruption »f christianity i®
5 the fourth century ; on the difperlion and reitera
tion of the Jews, the history of the falfe Mefliaha
who have appeared among them, and the raafon*
: in fuppoit of the conjeflure that the Afghans are
the dslcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
riififlarfce to oppreflion; on the irruptions of th*
northern nations, and the causes of the dccliae and
' fall of thelioman empire ; on the cultoais of the
> Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
> the conquefks of tho.te nations, and thofeol the
f Turks; on the ufurpationof the Mamalukes, and
f tbs past hidory aud prefer.t state of Egypt; on
the character-and condmS of Conftantine, Jullini
f n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ;on the scarcity of
' books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
cline of literature ; on the rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall; on the in
[ consistencies in the political characters of biOiopj
Newton and Hurd; on the peculiaritiesoor. r Dr.
Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the benyficial
, efledls which ehriftianity has produced in favor of
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eftabliftiment «f equal governments.
' ludependent of the large proportion of original
( matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Inttrefted in thefubjefi will, it isprefumed, wilh
to peruse or cunfultthem, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited,and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a:
' hall if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than are easily acceflible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
in any one library in the world. They are t«r
niihed with indexes, and a copious table of con
tents.-' Jan IX—jjwiw
Wanted, to Hire, »
A Targe and convenient HOUSE, in or ne»r
the centre of the city—for ,vhich a generoua
rent will he given; to be taken (or a year, or en
more for a longer tern}. Inquire of the Printer.
Oft- >7- eotf
FOR SALE,'
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, a out 400 Weight, in
gtnd condition, and would answer the purpose of
a «ountry Printer at well ai new.
Enquire of the Printer.