IbtattS, *»» Philadelphia
-jsji 1720.J /
T ' WENT of the Accountt of the InfftSors of the Health-Office for the City and Port
of Philadelphia, for the year 1797-
Marine Hospital Expenditures —No. I. s
, ' M John Duffidi, for attending patients, * 1 I 0
Caleb L»wnes, for nails, - -
«tries Mease, on account of repairs &c. - % a ?
to. Pearfon & Levis, for a Ledger, - - t
rk »• John Marftall, for paints, oils, &c. V
• ir.lj. Steiner Ic Karaerer, for publtfhingaccounts. _ I xao
J® jj. Heath Norbury, on ascoujn* -
t 9 . Thomas Dol.foti, fcr Stationary, - * £ 50
rll t Heath Norbury, on account • * " J,,
, 9 '. Nefbitt & Battifs, clerk and meflenger in Health-Office,ene quar- 5
let's (Vary each, - * J" g Co
to- Betton & Harnfen, for medicine j * „„ t
-i. William Allen, balance of his account, - V £
Do.remofHealth-OlT.ee, . * »® 3& °7
Wells & Morris, for Ironmongery, - • « * 17
Daniel Humphreys, for printing, - g (
Ic. Heath Norbuy, on account, • Ir
Charles Kamfay, for (tone, - • «
" •. ne Ge.rge Pens, fbr laying stone, • - 7 |
Heath Norbury, on account, . - U °
»* Do. Do. - " 15 3'3
* Do. Do. • - 16 l '° 10
'*"10. Thomas Davis, for repairs to Hospital, - • 17 2 9S 57
witlijm Buck, for carriage hire, - 34
William Allen,on account, - .15 *OO
" st. 4. Heath N«r-ury, on account, - - 19 100
10. William Jones, for repairing the wharf, . io 40
I 6 Heath Norbury, on account, ■ > * 11 334 - *
v.t. Do. Do. - . - « tl6 11
c. 6. Tow and Benfon, for information againS the Ihip Hinde, »3 9°
Heath Norbury, on account, - . >4 **4 J
Thomas Bickhata,, f#r mending the Health Barge - %5 S '7
Dollars J7» l 7»
fettled by the Committet appointed 13th December, *?97, JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARR,
SAMUEL BRECK.jnn.
March 6th, , 79 g~-Approved by the <
City Hospital Expenditures for 1797-No.
i. ii. Paid Thorns Hoed, balance of account, 8 *'
211 Nicodeimus Lloyd, it>r ironwork, J 8 -S
b. 38. Andrew Brown, for advertising,
)rili6. Wells Morris, for ironmongery, 1* 44
i". 10. John So lb ck, for hauling sundries,
James Whitehead, for sundries, 4 %1 5
ai . Daniel Knght, for workdone, 3
James Tho npfon, on account, * ®7 *7
,8 William Allen, on account, S 3°°
St. 2. Benjamim Kite, to purchase filppliet, ) 6 150
». James Thompson, on account, 1 *3® .
j. JohnJt James Whitehead, do. 8 >?o 40
g. Benjamin Kite, to purchase supplies, 9 190
а. James Smith, for cleansing infeiSed haufei, 1 la *°®
Ij. John Sims, f r painting, 11 Xo
Jiihn Letehworth, to purchase supplies, V ,c °
ft. Do. Do. *3 »0O ,
Do. balance of Benjamin Kites account, *4 'J ®5
15. Do. to purchase supplies, *5 200
16. James Thompson, on account, i(> 100
18. • John Letehworth, to purchase supplies, >7 400
19. William Allen, on account, " 3°°
ai. James Thompfoa, on account, *9 100
at. John Letciiworth, to purchaf«juimliA»- 100
A. Wtmam- «c«%nt, -——Z'%r-r - M - —• -
aB. John Letehworth, to porchafe fuppliei *6O
3 e. James Ihomplon, on account, 100
n John Letehworth, to purchase supplies, 24 too
Do. Do. »j 3 00
ti lathes Thompson, on account, a 6 J59 =
, 6 ; Do. Do. 27 100
IJ. James Smith, for clcanGng houses, as 50
John Letehworth, to purchase fnpplies, 1.9 * co
a() . Williim All»n, on account, 3® *ooo
»x JamesThomufon, on account, 3 1 I 0«
30. Do. Do. 31 300
o». 4. Will'am Allen, oh account, 33
б, Miller, Fords & Montgomery, to purchaie 6ank wares for /
the ConfuUing and Yifiting Phyficiins, J N
William Nefbitt, clerk in the Health-Office for extra ftrvices, 3,5 150
Elijah Battil's, tor do. 3 6 5®
Job Craighead, for burying a man, 37 IS
John Miller, jun. for re'er Helm,
lj. James Thompson, on actount, 39 J 9° 3<
jg. , William Allen, on account, 4* 400
14. Michael Ltib, for medicine, 41 94
Htliry Chamberlain, for work done, 4» 44 79
Thomas Brown, for work done, 43 ai S9
»j. DoftorCoxe, formeditine, 3®
tc. 4. James Smith, balance of his account, 4i ">7
14. Evan Truman, for wood, 46 2»
James Kerr, for mending a hearse, 47
Dollars h,34i 68
Settled by We Committe appointed 13th Deeertiber, 17(17, JAMES WOOD
JOHN STARR,'
SAMUEL BRECK, jun.
March 6th, 1798 —Approved bv the Board, .
SAMUEL HODGDON, Ghiirrtiah to the Board of Health.
'r. Marine and City Hospital in General Account w'tlb the InfpcMats of the Health-Office,
for 1797.
> amount of Marine Hospital expen- B> balance in the hands of Gide»n H.
ditures per Treasurer's acct No. I J7H7I Wells(Tr.afurer) ift January, 1797, aiJI 3
j amount of City Hospital expendi- By caib received by James King of John
turcs, per Treasurer's acct. No. 11. 1134*68 Baker, County IWurer, 15<»
5 one months interest of xooo dollar* By proceed* of John Baker's three notes
borrowed of James King, 5S° difcounud «t Bank of Pennfylvann, S9i° 34
j balance in the hands of James Old- By procee s of John Gpjdir.tr, jun'r..
den, Treasure* to the b«ard, I *4 borrowed note, 3JOO dollars, dil
———. counted at ditto, 34"* 77
DolW* 15070 13 By proceeds of John Baker's note, dif
■ . counted at ditto, 198°
0 John Gardner, jun*rs. borrowed note, ——
per contra, not yet due, and which 15070 13
will appear in the actt. of 1798 IS OO , , "
■B. Several accounts yet owing for Settled by the Coirfmittee appointed 13th Dec.1797.
supplies and services, the amount of JaMES WOOL),
which cannot be exa&ly afcenained, JOHN SrARK,
will probably make, together with SAMUEL jun.
the above Bote, 5 <OO dollars, due by March 6th, >798, approved by the Board,
the institution. SAMUEL HODGD JN,
Chairman of the Board of Health.
On the lath day of March 1798, we the Suhfcribers met at the City Halt, and carefully exam
ed the written account of the Infpedlors of the Health-Office of the Ci'y and Port of Philadel*
11a. and the accounts and vouchers relating thereto, and do find the within to be a true statement
the said Account. HILARY BAKER, Mayor of the City of Philadelphia.
ALEX. WILCOCKS, Rteorder of t c City of Philad.
JACOB SERVOSS, Juilice of the Peace N. Liberties.
WM. RO KIN SON. f >jft Sue of the Peace for Dift. South.
rflE bubfcriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a person will
tend every <iay, Sundays excepted, until the ift
April next, from the hours of IO o'clock in the
□rning till 1 o'clock in tlw afternoon, at thehoufe
rmerly occupied by him in Chefnnt-flreet, for
i c purpose of fhewirig all books, papers aad let.
rs retarding his pall commercial tranfafiiona to
uh of his creditor? as may think proper to attend
d examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march J. f»ciA
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chejmit Street.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 15, 1798-
J'WIIWC I IIC I Cal-C IWI Ulll. I'VUUI.
LANDING,
1 AND FOR SALE,
& The Cargo of the (hip Fair American,
e Sanies Burke, matter, from Aux-Cayes, now ly
c ing at Bell's wharf,
r CONSISTING Of
Molafles', Coffee, Sugar and Dye
; Wood,
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, ju*.
3 mo. 6. §l\v 5, South Water-Urett.
Nicklin fc? Griffith, Oi
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf— -
HAV* *o*. S4LI, t
< 8 hhds. of Jamaica ltu» '
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds. yj
Teueriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hh3s- . L A t0 "
Imperial Tea in garters and eightha sf chellj cor
Sail Canvass, No. i, to 8 di e
I>unitits, Ginghams, a«d Moflinets, »n paclta- wit
ges luitable for the Weft-India ni^t
NMis »Sorted th *
Black quart bottles an<
Queens ware in hhds.and crates »? «*PI
Yellovy ochre dry in calks ;
An 4 at New-York, on board the _
(hip Dian3, from Liverpool, expoSed round
as as the navigation is open, T
Fine LWerpoel Salt • V
Coals Cr
Spinifc Brown "] no
Venetian Red | Ul
Purple Brown { PAINTS | r ' 1
Patent White f 1
White Lead | J
Red Lead J | . ,
Colcothar vitriol | \
140 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine | d:
Ship Diana, I n>
For Sale or Charter. j a
also,
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co. j
is now change Ito • I
NICKLIN ttf PRIFFITH.
January t. .eodtf I
**" —Btrflccmidgc —f&r file |.
TT confifbt of <?ao acres, almost all »f which i»
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided j
into five farms, four of whi:h are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th tf are on it a number of buildings, forming J
afquare of nearly three acres—l he dwelling house |
is a very convenient one and a fmallexpence would j
put it in complete repair. |
The orchard conuds of 1500 fin»beanng engrat- I
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts ot said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great j
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the 1
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and eonvem
ence of the place Its situation is about t8 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. I
frera Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt I
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre I
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to «n- j
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut Street. I
February %. eodtf
A Garden to be let, 1 1
FOR a term of years, fitmte about a mile from I
the Court-house, contains ahout two acres of I
land, it a high ftateof cultivation. A large green
house, is cresfted en the prcmifes, about forty feet I
jonjj, with a lodging room, and feed loft above. I
A conTidefaßlV quantify of Kitchen articles, very I
regularly disposed of on the spot. I
Enquire at Jl, South Second street. !
march li. eotf I
* * - |
House and Lots, in Bordentotvn.
TO BE SOLD, a handfometwo story House, I
with the Lot on which ii is eredled, fituat- I
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy I
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty I
two ftet in front, and in neat order. The lot !
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on I
the main street, arid extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut- I
:rg a deed, and for. the remainder, such credit I
w 11 be give* as the purchaser may chute. This I
property w ill be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr. j
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near]
the prcmifes, who will (hew the fame, or of 1
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street. I
December 1. 3awtf
Prison M anufa&ory.
re, FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel- I
phia, .
3 Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3<y to jody
Flooring Brads Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oaltum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakeis and Sadk-rs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea ltones, hearths, chimney pieces,
plat f orms, slabs, facia, window hea«i«, lilii, c .
7- All which may he had on reafonablc terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at Slid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders.from a dillance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
j ? mas, agent for the puifon, will be attended to.
" December 26. mth6ni
French Circulating Library.
an. JOSEPH ,E.G M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS thofo who wish to recur to the only
means of becoming perfe<ft in the French Lan
guage,that he has jufl opened his Library, con
m. filling of upwards of Ijoo volumes, the b«ft cal
c]_ culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
,nt sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town. t
N. g. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanith Languages, executed with ac
— curacy and dispatch. eoim rem. if.
For Sale,
n, A good situation for a Country Seat,
|y. FOK. I Y jacres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under goed fence,
and in excellent order as pasture ground.
c For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Crisson, at his office for the
sale of Keal Eftatcs-, Conveysncinj, &c. No. 54,
High-flreet.
»tl nio. »6th. ti'xjw
On Tuesday, the ioth day of 1
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the CU7
of Philadelphia,
WILL be exposed X" r»h!ic sale, fevenrr«n X
ti.as or pare -!a of iand tituafed .n Poin. Ger
townliip in the county of Ko. thumberland, and ver,
conta.r.k- in the whole fix thousand fcven bun- bo,»
dred ai:d fixtv-four acr»s and three quarters,
with the usual allowance for roads.
Term, of file, 1-J of the purchafc mowy on
the execntion of the deed, I-; »« three months,
and i-l in fix months, in good nctea or other
"*** to COSNELLY O- Co.
March q. d "° a
" "A Great~Bargain.
WILL BF. SOLO, if applied or immediate a)
ly. Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bdls of
I Credit, upen interest at five percent, per annum lf a
I now lodged in the Truafury, end endorsed by tne th( ,
I United State*, with a promise to " pay the inte- (ijfl
I Office of THOMAS MeEWEN
1 is" Co. march 13 —>u
■j
Wanted to live in the Country, sh
About five miles from this city, a fuber (tea- P®
j day Man who i.DdertanJs gardening an<J the '
I management of a few acres ef land, anl would
I not objeA to attend a couple of horses Swch
j a one may meet with liberal wages by apply ing
I at the office of thi« Gazette.
I N. B. None need apply but those of unex-
I ceptionahle ih
I March 13. < ' tl Js
' NANKEENS. t
Ten thousand pieces Nankeens,
I FOR SALE on a lihtri! credit, by L
SAMUEL HAYS, ti
No. I»y, Ckf Coot Street. <J ;
St. Croix Sugars. "
1 26 hoglheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR, a
for sale by h
! JOHN NIXON & Co.
I Vcb. 9 tmAvf
; FOR SALE,
[By WHARiON LEWIS,
No lij Souch Froßt Street.
. I A quantity of Tanner'a Oil,
I 4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to S
t Ift and »d proef Brandy, J drawback. f<
:j Madeira Wine, h
Juniper Berries, &c. its. tl
I j Feb. 9. eodtf C
FOR SALE, J
400 barrels BEEF.
II Enquire of 1
George Pennoei, *r
\ Gid. HiU Wells.
J march 8. cots
t. liedOiover Seed of the beltquality.
MADEIRA WINE, '
- I Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
1 pipes and Quarter calks. (
„ Teneriffe Wine, 1
if I And, Window Glaf —all of which will be fold (
n I on very rcafanable terms, by t
:t John Craig, j
J No. 12, Dock Streot. I
f j march I w&stf
For Sale, 1
By £llißTon & John Peuot,
No. 41, North H r aler Street,
I London particular Madeira Wiiie, in pipes and
I quart' r casks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use. '
e, I Inferior da.
t. I A few bales Allibad CofTei
iy I Bai'danna Handkerchiefs
y I Sail No. 1, to 13
-, t j A few bags of Juniper Berrie*
in I A parcel of Spal Leather, aid
)e A few boxes of China.
J march 3 * tuScf^w
it TO LET,
u And poffeflinn given tho l ft April next,
TheHouleNo. 258 High-street,
At present o.eupic-d by P. Butler, Esq.
Apply te
Edward Shoemaker,
ir. j No. 117, High flrett.
ar I February 44 fod3W
Netu-Tork, February, 1798.
PROPOSALSbyGZORGZFORMAX,
roR PRINT INC BT SUBSCRIPTION,
I A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
! tantonly iix months—entitled
T) ROOFS of a CONS PIRACY against
IX. all the Religions ami Governnientt* of EU-
I I<OPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
ci* I Masons, llluminati, and Reading Societies. C«l
---1 lefted from cood authoritie ,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
' I ProfeJJor of Natural Pbilofvpby, and Secretary to tic
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
lefc I Nam tua res agitur paries cum proxitnus ariet.
e», I 55° THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
: . I 400 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requir
-led until the work is campleted.—lt shall be princ
at J ed with an f legant new type, and on paper of fu-
I perior quality, which will comprise about 400
ho- I pages neat 6&avo, handsomely bound and lettered
I —tbe price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
| I Those who procure 14 fubferibers, and became
I accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u-
I l'ual allowance to booksellers.
I *»* The above work comes from the pen of J.
I Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in hign
nly J eft;matioß in the literary world—the fa&s therein
an- I recorded are well fulftaiitiate/i, and thereafoning
on- J and argumen s thence deduced, while they difco
:al- J ver the found Judgment and penetration of the
ea- I writer, are calculated to anaule us well ar to ir
iUo I ftru&. A fccne of villainy is developed by the
ar's I author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart I'he
j danger to be apprehended from secret focietias is
ch, J clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human m»-
ac- I ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every
I deviation ir»m the ftrnight path of religion and
I ot virtue, inconteltibly proved both to th« politi-
I cian and the chriflian by stubborn and incontro
j vcrtablc fjfis.
ad I Suifcriptioiu taltn in iv O. Forman, No 46,
I jyUi:am-j tet, opposite tbe Foji-Ofjicc. and by tbe rcfpcc
tine bootfcclleri iirNclu Tort and PbilaJJiLia.
' j February aB.
to ovai7~bottlesl
the J Quart and hilf gallon in eratts —jnd a quantij
54, jtyof Ciaret Bottles of a right fize —For laic st
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
JjTiHsrv t-j jtawfrw.
[ V6LUME XIII.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
That well known Eflste, wiled SHREWS
BURY FARM, foraic*ly the reGdence of
General John Gadwalad*. firuate on Saffafras Ri
ver, ip Kent county. Maryland—coutaming »-
boi* 1900 teres ol prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. Ik* Buildiugs are all ea
cejlent, and consist of a hvndfome Dwelling Hoy£\
two Imge Barns wirh Cow hoii'et.. Stables for fifty
horses, a fpatieos tVentfii* 2oor undtr cover, »
grapery, two Owfcer's houses, two md
ges of two fto'ry buildings for Negroes (cue bf
them new arid of' brick), Corn liouies, a Sraoak
house ,4te. ict.-j—The whole Estate bfin U ' nearly
furrouoded by wafer, it requires hut 'irrlc fencing,
. and has a good Ib'iad and Herrinp fft. ly. It i*
canvcui*!*!/ ht Jjted far both the Philadelphia an J,
» alfimtirc; niarkots, with two landing* on a navi
gable rivt f hut a (hort fail from Baltimore. There
„ j large Peach, ard two Urge Apple Orchards on
the pietnifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
differept kittds. The foil is moHly a rich loom.—■
The whole will bs f 'ld together, or divided into
fmallejr farms (for which the buUdiugs are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchafcr. Th*
Stock en laid Farm, confifiing ol Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, See. will also bt difpofedof. 1 For further
pai tituiars aj<piy to Oeoaot Hastings, on th?
rrtnufes, or to (lie fiif*fctiber. in i*l»iladclphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, juk.
February 24. aa\t6w^
•NOTICE
IS hereby pi v en, that the Subscriber, an infol»
vent debtor, confined in the common'goal of
(hi County o£ Cape-May iu the Hate of New-
Jersey, l.*ih jjr<jenied>is petition t« the Judge*
of the Infenor Court ps Common Pleas, in and
fpr the faia county, praying that they would,
attend to hear what can be alledged for or «•
gainst his to an z£l of the
Legislature of this Slate,entitled "an a<sl fo£
the relief of insolvent debtors," paficd the 16th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of Marrk
next for the purpose aforefaid j to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Preciix!>, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
hit creditorj are requeftsd to take notice.
CHARLi-S ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —nw;w
N O T I C £.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shei«
lv, of Oxted Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spfnfter, or her afligns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol«
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the United States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to Loi'.doa
in the year 1J96. The fuMcriber, the said Han.
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Ctr»
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. a.fl. law6w,
Bolton Glass Manufactory,
THE citijens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the minufafiure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House ill
Bolton.
It is needfcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boftsn Glass as it is so well know*
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe<3 greatly superior to any ever imported fro»
Europe.
it will be est to any size commonly used j an j
~ may be conflantly had by applying to Cbaries f.
Kuffcr, at the Glaf Houle
Orders from the difiant Stales to he addressed to
Mr. Samuel G*re, Court lire."!. Boston.
,1 £3" Two or three good Glass inak rs are want- ' 1
ad at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
c sploy, by appl cation to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the works. Men wiihout families w ill be pre.
f;rred. However unacquainted with the method
of r. aking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
v ith h fame encouragement.
Bollon, January 16 1.' —lawfiw
- At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and
Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
t, Refolded, That ten dollarson each (hare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treainrer
give public notice thereof agrevablt
to law.
. Extrai7from the Mlnutet.
GPORGE VVORRAU,, Secretary.
_ AGREEABLE to a rcfolution of ih» Prefid«nt
and Managers of the Delaware endStbuyllill Canal
Ctmfany, the Stockholders are hereby required to
piake a payment of ten dollars on each of their
j. refpeiSlive {hares on or before the ift of - pril next,
to WM, GOVETT, Treafarer.
February 18. lawtA
City Commilfioner's Office,
»1- January nth, 1798.
tOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZEXf,
tie following arrangement is made by th#
i- laid commissioners, for cleansing th#
streets, &c.
Diftritft No 1. —From the north fide of Vine
, as street, to the south fide of Mulberry (lreet.; t*
IT " be under the fupcrintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
" c " 1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
u " the fuuth fide of CVefnut ftrretn, to he under the
fupcrintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street t«
ne the north fide of Spruce street, to be under tb#
u _ fuperinteivdance ol Jolepli Claypoo'e.
4. From thecorth fide fit' Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be VRdcr the fu
t -»perintendance of Hugh Roberts,
gh 0' When pumps are out of order south of
ci n High-ftruet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
in _ corner of South and Fifth-llr;et«, or Godfrey Geb
co_ ler, in Fourth, near Clufnut-flreet ; and north of
the H 'K'' iircct > to tiixey and Dehaven, in Saffafras-
j n . flreet. between Sijcth and Seventh-streets
James C. Sff Samuel W. Filher.
. ® AT TUEitl STONE,
corner of Arch and Front street.
cry EA?E tot SALE,
i„ij Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks,aOorcd'*
iti- A few bales red, whjte, and yellow Flannel
ro . Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
46, Ditto Poudicherry aad Madrafs ditto
j, IV . Ditto Gurrahs
Bengtl black T*ffcties
4COO piecf< Nankeens, and
™~ Few chefU best H-yfon Tea
... AS? —' <OO boxes bed London Window Gltfs
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and ij hhds. OiafJ
Ware assorted, which they will difjofi of cheaper
•1 • than any in the city.
" Nor !X v JUwifXI n(ga?et
PHILA DELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Ma*cH 15.
A SUMMARY
Qf the value and. drfiinaticn of the exports of
the l> niied States, commencing on the \f nf
October, 1796, aid ending on the 30 th Sep
tember, 1797, agreeably to a Jlaterrrnt laid I
before Congress:
Tothedominionsof Russia, - . 3,450
do os -Sweden, . 898.315
of Denmark, 1,538,224
of Holland, 8,845,486
of Greatßritain,B,s69,74B
of HanfeTowns9,s69 743
ef France, 11,664,091
of Spain, . 5,536,253
of Portugal, 463,310
of Morocco, 15,000
of Italy, . .767,064
To China,& ro
Weft-Indies, (generally) 1,508,044
Africa, (generally) 230.873
Europe, (generally) 207,077
North Weft eoaft of America, 15,607 '
Total Dollars, 51,294,710 '
t
A SUMMARY !
fifth, value of exports from each State. c
From New-Hampfhiie, . ' 275.840 ?
Maflaehufetts, . 7,502,047 F
Rhode-Island, . . 975,530 11
Connecticut, . . 8t 4 , ?0 6 °
N«w-York, . . 13,308,064
New-Jersey, . . , B>l6l 'g
Pennsylvania, . 11,446,291 w
Delaware, . .
Maryland, . . 9,8.1,709 n
Virginia, . „ 4,908,713 "
North-Carolina, . 540,901 1
South-Carolina, . 949,622
- • 644,307 c
Total Dollars 51,294,710 | th
Treasury Department, I ™
Registers Office, sth March, 1798. C "
JOSEPH NOURSE, Regifier. L m ;
J?1 us " ,rl '' re:u,n » fro " ' h e diftriaP"
Of Cmrl<(ton, (v>bth-Carolina) arc wanting. |to
" ■■" jem
CONGRESS. vei
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, to
I fail
WEDNESDAY— MARCH 14. j
Nir. D. Softer, from the committee of J if
cl lima, made a report on the petition of inti
Robert B. Wilkins, ftatingthat no legilla- J w il
live interference was neeeflary Ordered of
t-o lie on the table. I was
I he report yesterday made by the fame j d ,ei
conimitteepn the petition of William Thorn gov
was concurred in. I pay
The house again refoived itfelf into a j any
eornmittee of the whole on the bill fupple
nientary to the a£l for eftablilhing the judi- J 3 ps
cial coLrtsof the United States; when, as-
Ut undergoing fomc amendments, it was a-
greed to,- and the committee having risen j
bill was ordered to be engrofTed for a j
tiiird reading to-morrow.
Mr. N. Smith, from the committee ap- I
pointed for that pnrpofe, reported a bill ** T >
Supplementary to and in alteration ®f the
avl for the relief of persons imprisoned for
debt—Committed for to morrow. A
Mr. Craik moved that the house go into lr
a committee of the whole*>n the report of ,rlvf
the committee to whom was referred on the wafi '
23d ult. the meihge from the Prcfident of vault
the United States, inclosing a memorial der {
from the commiflioners appointed un€er the wai> "
a£l for establishing the temporary and per- P
manent feat of the government of the United y v her
States; which motion being agreed to, the "
houfc went into a committee of the whole " .
on this fubjedl, and the memorial and report i
having been read, the following resolution
was under consideration: W) th
" Relulved, That two hundred thousand thr ? u
dollars be appropriated for completing the °* Irr
buildings requisite for the accommodation of 1 797
the government of the United States, at
the c!ty of Waftiington, to be fubjeil to the In
draughts of the President of the United P ublil
State?, for the time being not exceeding broke
one third of the said sum in any one year." e
After some ohfervations by Mr. J. Will- c " vte
iams again ft agreeing to' this resolution, on that '
the ground that it never was expefled that turne<
Congress was to be at any expense in eree- Extra
ting the public buildings; but that the of
States of Virginia and Maryland who had " C
ceded the land for the purpose of the city,, board
had engaged, to provide them, and except place,
they did provide them, Congress was not ' to hav
obliged to move there at the time appointed, difgra
Gordon proposed an amendment to tion o
itrike out the 200,000 dollars, and infett month
66,666 dollars, as it was stated that only that c
one third part ps the 200,000 dollars were j flamm;
to be expended in any one year. i rinrles
This amendment occasioned eonfiderable | the dil
debate, and was at length negatived, there state ti
being only 22 votes for it. The resolution .of the
itfelf was then carried, by 58 members *0- , lawless
ting in it. favour. ! to or(J(
The refulution was advocated by MefTrs. • of tht
Nicholas, Thatcher, Rutledgr, S. Smith, ' royal fl
Harper, Craik and T. Claiborne, and op. \ to be 1
n y Livin S a ° n > Varnum, and ; proclar
J ' r I ff'"cral
A meflage was received from the Senate, Jo afiui
informing the house they had passed tfie bill al state
making alterations in the law imposing a 1
duty on (lamped vellum, parchment and
paper—with an amendment, which was con Extra,
curi ed in by the house. „ A
They alto sent a bill to the house for here vc
gnintingcertam land to Stephen Monot and which 1
other, at Gal .opolis, in the North wefttrn had ar
1 crntory, which was twice read and refer- the biV
red to the committee on the futjeft of north private
WC Mr r Vom tor^ Jnd - channel
Mr. Clopton, from the committee of en- who is t
jolment, reported the bill appropriating \ Cawfam
■ - ' | m-.-aty for tl;e expcbtes of the government
fur the year 1798, and the bill providing
rhe ireans of intercourse with foreign nati
ons, an only enrolled. Adjourned.
C# For tlx Gazette of States.
" The Soul of a Nation, it its Honour."
ports of
e \ft of . Tfie report of the Committee on Claims,
tth Sep- t ' lc Oarctte of yesterday, and its accept
-lent laid aBCe in t '" on f c excites alarm, as it ap
pears to destroy the principle on which relts
3>450 a " P u^',c fecwritief ; and to contravene the
98 315 c °nftitution, by an ex-pofl fa3o aft to make
58,224 "oid a prior contrail.
(.5,486 The plain fafl is, that the national obli
-59,748 I K 4tlon w, » perfeftly exprefled in thefollow
-59 748 ,n S endorsement, " The United States en
-54,091 fll . re Payment of the within bill, and
16,253 W, U, draw bids of exchange for the interest
>3,310 an " i,all y demanded,"—according to a re
-5,000 folut; ° r 'o f Congress of the 18th March, 1
'7,064 I 7®°-" This is an abfevute and vnconditi- 1
7,310 onu ' P re ™fe and contrail of the United 1
8,044 : neTer has been, nor ever can be 1
0,873 im P air or made void, without violating
7,077 conflitution, which forbids txfoftfaflt c
5,607 a<w * •' And no other aft or afts can affect f
_____ the contrail contained in theendorfement on '
4,710 V l * Mis, because they were negotiable notes a
_____ put into circulation by order of Congress ; 1
therefore thepromife on the bills, is a complete d
and an unrcfealelle eontraft with the holders
Ite. of them. To suppose, ( what has been fug- a
£ c^ed to the dijhonour of government,) "that
!,047 P ,rt t ' le g enf ral law, orfome claufts in ir
:,530 " ma T construed as to destroy the letter 31
[,so6 contrail on the bills," is to charge
1,064 ■' le on & that 'fined them with extreme tl
1,161 'g nora "ce, or perfidy, as erery maa knows it m
1,291 wa ' intention of Congress to inspire an tu
,919 un ' lrlllte d confidence in the faith of tie U
'799 m ' cd ® tates at if at eventful period. Erery ta
,713 re ecling man knows that if the contiadl of an
,901 I l ' lc Union had been then explained by Con- hi
,622 [ S rf ' s - as rt now is in the committee's re
,307 } P ort ' DO confidence would have been placed 00
,710 I . Brtat8 rtat design would have been defeated, a *'
and Perhaps our country loft. But govern he
I n ? e . nt having excited the confidence of the
J citizens and soldiers by the most solemn pro-
I on bills to pay them the interef) in
ftrift j of exchange aunually, they were willing P a
J to trust for the principal until the war might
end—now after waiting and petitioning ft- im ;
ven years for a fulfilment «f the contrad,
I they are told "it is inexpedient for Congress to,
ES. to make any provision for the payment of g a '
said bills." ina
j Now we ask the wifemen of this world,
of j j the fame excuses offered for not paying the ®t
of I interest on these securities, will not apply
fla- J with equal force to every other description the
red of public obligations ! And if there ever frei
I was an instance in any nation where the sol- l'' x ,
me diers and citizens held such contraffs, and the P r o
>rn government replied to their petitions for arrr
payment, " that it was inexpedient to make wer
a any provision for their payment." 1 ! no 1
le- We m,ght challenge the world toproduce ar m
li- a parrallel ? to t
Injured Soldiers and Citizens. 1
a- March 14. e< 3; t
a J jjgyj
CONTINUATION OF Rioll
p . Latest Foreign News, four
U IVTIiMAHrAXHCUT.A.MVinUT N.jrCK. and
,r a V . LONDON » Dec- 28. Sini
At the interment of the late king of Pruf- driai
0 fia in the cathedral of Berlis, it w as CO n- of 'th
, f trived that the coffin in which the corpse awa
e was deposited <hould link gradually into the the j
)f vaull.by machinery; general Bifchoffs wer- The
,1 der difappeanng at the fame time, which al D
e l vab -•""ounced by twelve discharges of 24 entr<
fix pounders. Upon the pyramid eredled in hi
4 where the pulpit ufuajly fteod, the follow- his d
e ing infcnption appeared in letters of gold. comn
e » Fredenck W.lham the 11. the Father cd as
tjf A . 3 C ,TV\ 7 h " ma g nan «naity and peop]
1 \u CC ' , r ! e r ofom ofhl ' s faithful people incr,
with chccrfuln«fß and hcroifm, and paflcd The
1 ll l r ? u e h the n ; ght of death into the sunshine the ,
. of immortality, on the r6th of November, or der
f I 797 ' MUTINV at the CAPE.
: Krn*!T ?qUCnC f °/ ths account that we peo pl
, publiflied »n our la ft paper, of the mutiny Jutfe
. broke out in the Ih.ps at the Cape of Good ? hc '
• Hope, the following statement has been re- Th
. caved from authority. We rejoice to find Mafll
hat it 1. over, and that the seamen hare re- s ent h
turned to their duty. L
Extraa of a Utter from an officer at the Cabe in exp
of Good Hope, dated I V h 03. 1797. of th,
k 7 r nft " a mutin y broke out on A !
board the ships of the squadron now at this on foi
i rT' u Co l du ? ° f the P eo P le fecn " tegrif
,to have been nearly the fame with that which It ii
disgraced the fleet at Spithead, the informa- tendec
tion of which was brought on here about a pbilan
onth since, and there is reafoa to believe copies
that our men were in ft iga ted to it by in- of the
i ; T: ° ry i rtt u Cr< sent thcm b y the artful to set ,
! rau,ln y- The crews of miffior
' ftntr ?'' Con !' nue(i in 8 tumultuous Scv.ra
of t heftJ}* Cr 'T; hC ; eco ®ing ashamed courfc
iuwLLn^-r; edner,aoddan s" at a <3
! !rird/r K^r r ° gß,the y retUrned j°' n hil
: ofth ' h' ° C leo . ce ' aru ' ' Proper sense part w
J° f 7/ *«/. -nammoufly cheering the riods i,
X tt r A ' I ; t i lc Admiral d,^ed pw-r
, to be hoilltd on board the Tremendous. A a retrc:
' , P Jn T at T "' aS j hf " i{F " ed P rom ifi„g a narchy,
!f o a fiu e P v r ot°rh the foundl
l al ft,r 7r u J- q " a on ,s BOW its uf u- fylum t
, al ftat< of f «bor<l, nation and discipline." tour I
me r a y '5- difFcrinj
F , accident. could I
>< a T/ n ' n p 'r° u,b ' >"• 1 a - th; »
S
had anchored in Cawfand Bar, during The
the night of Wednefdav last '' . ° • , f.
Drivaftpr* -I *#»i a, ' two mft, dil
who is a natirc of SaltAfli r y
««- .0 H I LtJTiWS: sc
V <•. ,
eniment ru»'j Wat, on the krienie*i:jef Tf.urfday,
roviding accompanied by capu J. K. Pulling, late
gh nati- of his majrfty's (hip Penguin, who fame
rned. passenger in the Cerberus, from Corks to
gether with Mr. Dcew, nephew of Capt.
tate 5 Drew and matter's mate of the r Ceib e r u s the
captain's steward, and a boat's crew, con
<our." ,I,llrt o °f a coxswain and eight {L-amen,
when a heavy sea filled the boat, and only j
Claims two seamen escaped with their lives, out of j
accept- '3 P ersons - A heavy gale of wind ;from I
it ap- the Southward had blown all the forenoon, j
eh rests which had occasioned much swell in the I
ene the Sound ; about one o'clock, however, the |
5 make S a ' e suddenly abated, and rendered it fafe j
-for boats to pass, which opportunity cap- I
j) tain Drew availed himfelf of to proceed to I
follow* Hamoaze, ind came from Caw-sand J
tea en- w,til ""tent to pass between St.
!I, and Nicholas Iflandand Mon nt Edgc-ombe, be- J
ntereft tWte " whichplacei there is a bar, but
» a re. igable at high water for veffcl": of 300 tons I
larch, burthen, over which p!aee the boat was I
unditi- P n ® n g when the accident happened. From I
Fnited tue '"formation given by the two seamen I
:a» be who were saved, it appears that the boat j
lating had water several times before thev j 1
?faa* cam s t0 'he har, owing to the tide of ebb I 1
affe£t setting strong out of the harbor, so much j '
rnt on '"deed, that capt. Diew, alarmed at the! 1
: notes a PP arent danger, Gripped off his coat for I '
rrfi / 'he purpofc of fmimming, in cafe of acci- j 1
iipletc dent, immediately after which, a heavy j
)lders ea ftnick the boat, filled and upset her, | r
fug- ar) d she immediately funk. I r
•that . " Captain Drew has been a post captain j F
r ts in in the na»y since the year 1783, was much I 1
letter a °d deservedly tfteemed by his officers and jtl
arge 'hip's company , the latter indeed iifplayed I e
reme the most zealous proofs of thfir attach- l ai
ws it ment to him, during the late unhappy dif- I
re an turbances in the navy. The bodies of all J C
cU- l h°fe who perished, are said to have been. j ci
*ery ta ' len U P> except these of captains Drew y<
ft of 1 Pulling j the coat of the former, with I 1
:on- his papers, has also been f»und. j:
re- I During the gale of wind yesterday, j m
iced one of 'he river-barges was drove on ftiore (
and ° n the rocks under the Hoe, and presently l'C
ted, afterwards beat to pieces; fortunately all) of
ern- her crew-wftej"»v*4." - j
thel January 18. I so
pro. I EXPRESS FROM PJR/S. fta
ft in I this forenoon received, by express, | T
lin g P^ rls J o,lrnals to the 15th instant, from mc
ght which we fele& the following as the most
ft-1 ,m 7>ortant of their contents. * I vo'
i<3, Patriotic donatiens continue to be made I cu
re f g to,defray the expencc of the expedition a- hai
°f gain ft England. The members of thecrim-| M
inal tribunal oi Eure have made an offering-1 cai
rid, 0 "o livrei ; citizens Rousseau, Merchants I tb«
the I a t oedan, 600 livres, i&c. &c.
p'y *J' e y '^ a,e fr°m Bourdeaux, that upon I ftp
i°„ the demand of government to treat for the r y
ver lreight of particular veffcls for the Grand the
[°l- on the firft demand thirteen ■
the proprietor, offered their veffelsgratis, some P a J
for a rmed, others in the (late in which they the
[ke were ; and several other merchants who had of
na vessels to offer, engaged to complete the tha
, ce armament of those that were not in a state P ar
to keep the sea. beii
They write from Tours, that Jardin, ons
editor of the Courier Rtpublicain, one of g la
Jt le transports of FrudHdor, who was jour- I J
I neying to his destination with Gilbert Def- Ha
moheres, Perlet, and Ifidote Langlois, had «r
foqnd means to escape between Chatellerault ma '
k. I and 1 ours. I a T
I c . ; ? nva 1 t . c ' ct ' er * from Italy, announce that I thai
f j°'f if?' and Pef3ro » «n the A- P"t
fll Gu ? h ' have Allowed the example this
n- of the people of Ancona , they have d. iven 'J
fe away the soldiers of the Pope, and arrested Am
the governor Saluzzo, a resident at Pefaro. crin
I , Jf £o*ernor had sent an address to gener- I ran"
hal Dombrow/ki, who is stationed at Rimini, V
4 entreating him to come and restore peace I effe<!
d ;n hi. dominions. The general thought it thof
comm' V°f n * detachment, under the I glift
r f vr g " S thcr<e troo P s Proceed- fit ol
■r ed as far as Pefaro, where they found the T
d people masters, the tronps of the Pope fly- ers h
d 'rt ci t ' g l OVCrn ° r a ftatc arrest. and :
e rl, Ci Wpine direftory thought proper, on ly in
• ordrrtn C,Pt to fend an By a
' r}, rr Dombrow/ki, to command I a »d :
the Cilalpine troops to refpedt both the the 1
» P eaci j 0 the Pope and the foverignty of the I ar e e
- peop e. h e insurgents have sent two de- J and t
r puties to Milan, to represent the wishes of very
the people for a union. I Britii
Ivr V ,edir f a ° ry has arrest ed the marquis to
Eft!" 'he ambassador of his holiness, and lawfu
sent him to the temple. as rec
in> from u tiolland ftate > that the y are P ermi
' ofTZn 1. 3 d ' y tim '" lar t0 that Vtffel
the 4 th September. nem
1 A letter from Ration mentions a scheme of th«
; rfftore Poland to its political in-1 the fu
ip h' a ' d ' t ' l3t u P on t de Nemours at- treaty
' l i t the Society of Theo- ers, n
philanthrop.fts a fe VV dayj ago> and requ ; rcd and m
pus of the books, containing an account Th<
to ri ffT r^' P ' a . nnoUHcin g his intension the pr
miffiln°f mC^• a, havi "^obtained per- effeds
Se«ral 7 S D ' r " a ° r r to <l™ France, and u
Wal he stated, whom the whatfc
at a H'tt CV T S had COm P eUcd remain domim
ioin ht ' • t^l> C ° Ul,t '>' —eto apathy
join him : their pnnc.ples of liberty, the bled t!
riodsTn"it P ' ayed at " rtain P e " An^
Phitl on" f ° n ' and t hcl ' r philofo- tic aft
not permittingthem to s ee k govern
narchv lb" u'? one in a ™ a P°l°g
y, the) had conceived the plan of pafnft 1
fyh^To g I a C °F° ny ft ° Uld ° ffer an a
lylum to La Fayette, Bureau de Puzy, La- law aft
diff'rin a " d ftV i Cral others » who main I
d °v n" —Jiwgfc S as:
a /r nt ( <<e N r ,UrS) hav "'g
The Executive Directory on the mh' } The'
(hdt and«ihe f '° of Ani
ttdt, and at the fame time one for Italy. ly con |
traJe of P UC Raftadt> ,hat the ba S- ly^em
ed back toSl rT h3i bwn Carri ' P raaics
Hack to Stralbargh, whence i t v , 3 COJt . id so
\jk v >
Thursday, j eluded that that geflersT woujH m>: icfum*
ailing, la:t I the ncgociatioa.
who /Came j M. Cabarrus, the new Spbniin ArabaP
1 Corks to- I fa dor, has been for some days at Paris
r of Capt. j M. del Campo will not return to Spain till i
eib e r u sthe the Spring.
:re»c, con- I A letter from Udina states, that an Im- j
it {L-amen, I perial CommiflToncr had arrived there on
and only j the 12th ult."whn made all the French quit
re s, put of [ the place; 4nd that on the 22(1 the Auf
vind I trians were to enter under the orders of gen.,
forenoon, j Mack.
rll in the I The plan of the French attack upon the
verer, the | commerce of Euj4and is daily more and
jd it fafe I more developed. They did not fuffcr it to 1
nity cap- I be known until they ha«l gained possession I
Sroceed to J of Meiitz, and then io one day it burst into 1
Caw-sand I view in every dircctiii/u M. de- la Croix is. «
veen St. I sent to Hollalfd, while Boupdon is gone to c
jmbe, be- j Hamburgh, to execute the fame confifca- f
but liav- J tioft-which, place in France. £verv fc
300 tons I where they can dictate their mandate, and d
joat was I from the spoils of this robbery they draw 0
•d. From I supplies for frefh ads, of aggrefiion against 1)
3 seamen I England. o
the boat j Premiums of infsiranee on foreign bot- o
fore they I torn*, which for particular voyages cotild al
> of ebb j bar* been got done at five, are already at e:
so much j fifteen per cent, and many orders for goods
d at the j which by circuitous channels were ultimate, tl
coat for j ly to have gone to the French markets, tl:
of acci- j l ,aT e been countermanded,
a heavyj Saturday advices were received at the ad- ar
>fet her, I miralty office, from eaptain Keates, »f his th
I majesty's Ihip Boadicea, who had been em- w
captain I ployed to look into Brest water. Captain
■as much I Keatts slates, that he saw twelve (hips of
cers and j the line, on the Bth instant, about seven or ne
ifplayed I eight of which had their top-gallant yards
attach- j across, and were apparently ready for sea. m '
ppy dif- I The present effe&ive military force of g a
s of all I Great Britain consists of 16,160 regular
ve bees-1 cavalry, 13,104 fenciWe cavalry, 1 Fr
1 Drew j yeomanry cavalry, 15,664 regular infantry, re t
r, with ",®42 fencible infantry, 45,000 militia, as
I v °l""teers, 60,c00 fupplcmentary
fterday, I militia ; makingin the whole 227,450 ef- °*
)n fliore j feftive men, befides-l 17 companies of invar
refently j M artillery, and 59 independent companies 3 lp
tely all of invalids. it.
j WlfKtiwiy fen ce iti TfaiffO TS Ttfo very
J formidable r the most accurate accounts Fri
?. I state it at no less than uc,ooo effe'&ive men. ma
jxprefs, The militia and yeomanry com prise 90,000 * tc
, from I men. - as 1
le most j A paper of the 13 th states, that the en- P re
J voy from Rome at Paris has-been taken into ur
e made I custody, and that a courier extraordinary t' ot
itiou a- has been dispatched to general Bcrthier at
ie crim-1 Milan, to desire him to march the republi
shing I can troops against Rome, in order t<) avenge *
rchams J the manes of the brave Duphoz. ° fille
j The fame paper asserts, that there are ven
: upon j strong reasons for believing that the direfto- and
for the J r y W 'U soon give orders for the invasion of of
Grand! ths»electorate of Hanover. j 1
hirteen Letters from Rafkdt state, that the equi- aud
, some P a g e of Buonaparte has been sent back from ver)
b they thence to Straftourg, and that the members t>eci
ho had °f the congress have therefore concluded fuel
?te the I that the general would not take any further no r
1 state P a r l in the negoeiations, on account of his hop
I being wholly occupied with the prcparati->auti
rardin, OTI3 that are making for the invasion of £ n - 1
one of I , r cc „
1 jour- I A Packet is arrived at Yarmonth from eartl
Def- I Hamburgh, with dispatches from Mr. Fra- head
s, had «r to government; but it has brought no ed li
lerault I ma '|* # Th.s circumstance has given birth to Ear!
U variety of conjeftures. It is imagined;
e that that the diredory has already succeeded in
ie A- I puttinga stop to the communication betwe<*
ample this country and Hamburgh. | now
driven! The French diredtory having reduced den <
rested Austria so low as to be even a partaker in its lain <
efaro. I crimes, is openly avowing its system of ty.-
rener- rannizing over all the smaller powers. Tl
imini, _Among these, the Srft to experience the Bart<
peace effects of their (hort sighted policy, are voya;
ht it I those very nations whose neutrality our En- >'n 10
■r the j ghih jacobins have incessantly held up as a
ceed- I fit objeit of our admiration and envy. Tl
1 the The protedion which the northern pow- eral t
C r "'A 3 "* " n,form 'r afforded to the commerce lidy ,
rreft. a "d supplies of France, is requited precise- comir
r on ly m the maaner which had been predifted. ren, i
an "decree passed by the French Icgiflature, sure t
nand a "d announctd as the firft work of Peace try.
the the Ihips and cargoes of all „ cu tral nations
fthe areexpofed to .indifcrirsiiiate confifcation, Th
' de " and their merchants to inevitable ruin. E- Vicen
S ° f hZk a l' r n , in P art on 'y. with Clem<
Bntift goods, though the property of neutrals nephe
qu.s «to be condemned, with its whole cargo, as son, o
and lawful prize; although the law of nations, ted.
as recognized by civilized countries, only
r are permits such part of the cargo of a neutral . The
that vellel to be taken, as aßua!l y lelows to an e- tion
nemy and allows an indemnity to the owner
eme ,of the fh.p for ,ts detention, together with ted "I
[ in- j the full restitution of every other part of his
cargo 5 and although France is bound by of the 2
i at- treaty with almost every one of these pow Rotnau
jeo- ers, not to enforce t\en that principle, iuft Be - rt^ i t 1
ired and moderate as it is. P 1 "
unt The regulation now prescribed, has not tion in t
ion the pretence nor fliadow of justice ; and its f
jer- effeds can be no other than the immediate & t F<
ice. and utter, definition of all neutral trade ,
the whatsoever. Such are the firft fruits of that &
dom ' mon which the vveaknefs, disunion rfnd to/urnii
:to a P a t h y of the continental powers have ena- trea£ y 0
the bled rhe directory to assume over them. to prom
pe- And it is worth obferviWthat the eie-an- great
kro ° f P ' raCy W3S ad ° ptcd the Fl 'ench
■ek government, precisely at the time when its «»ay'be
W apologists her chad opened a regular attack a
jl • ndudl of their own country, in Oener
a adhering to the eftablijhed code of neutral c * lT " n
.a- law adted upon for ceuturie,, and forming a *1
main bulwark of our naval power. This
ts, »de they were pleafcd t» denominate a mar- There
:rs nt„ne tyranny. The French decree tliey will the late i
lr- doubtle.s consider, and with reason, as an ha, ' e
ng exteafion of French liberty, founded on all ° f ?%*
» ep, -V'P{f' w hi^difti n guift the jacobin
f) item, to whatever objeft it is applied. fording a
1 he application of this decree to the cafe '!»<
a- ot America, deserves to be more parlisilar- th '-P !urifi
ly coniidered. For the United States, a f " m
g- system of neutrality in the present war, if
, P raa ,'cab.e, was, that which found wisdom iWitf,
'and :ound policy prescribed. Such a fyf- French r,-
'i refumV *em was ac. Aii
i aris— eminent has k- • r t( 3 u ence' v*
>p»in till I The intm i mf, Jlt«d J;l„ '
s**s
he Awf- LikT^' Jr
3 " f S tI H f le *—' bey' Z? c °®P'airied 0 f ,W
'ofult anif m ., ' tflefe
j ° d T *t ' 3 * Wer,
P ®' d " e g«Wtfoii, ' L:t < *r, they Dr
ore and fought cm, . 11 *ai rr;,« v
Fer it to tbcf J^a' 00 ' a "d 2 i ; T
oflcffion tbc 2"' m ' n,llers to treat!
»ft into not been admi'S 5* ,he
onfilea- plaints wh icL thlyfc n ' Wfr
Every been by „~J " av e yet rer,- .
re, and dymentio,^^;^ 011 ?f the deer*;
T draw °^ercountri es>but eh ' , i *
agawft ly rHi** . tei)d; to A**, j, afe(
°{ the whole fuppf y her, t
n bot. of her eoWompKj ° n j Wft -**«7 „
could all her mfanS of recdvfS 10 CUt off »1
ady at export of h er produce* an 7 return f 0
goods It Would be a* J„r ]
limate- that country, to f U J I
«rktts, thing, can terminate , tn " &a
When the Walf ln „ hil a " 7 th ' n Kiul lp
he ad- announced eftcrdav T-\ T? sc ar
•f his the Ville de Paris, and f r° m Lil
:n em- were in the Tag. us. e frigate. (
aptam \ he Walfing| iam r„ , .
ps of dun ?g
fen or nen »'ts, but a I W a,r S Jr, . , a PParent
yards of failing, ejtC6pt jn of b y fuperi,
Tea. mct » and was fpokr tn k * ncc * w he:
■ce of gate. l ° by a P > on^
rgular One of the most Wef,f u . „•
j, 12 . French Stage is entitled, Si" £°"
mtry, repeopltd. In this piece SK. " i " U
ilitia, as Harlequin, aud
ntary One of the French T .-i """*
0 ef- Of England, fays! " o! fpta '
inva- Creation, and that all the oth I V
«P
3"
men. mandof the troops i n L ..rt\ the « '
~000 kc - but he is not to reside »t D n
as had been at firfl intended! /
c en . preparing for his residence bet«Lp
iS? Sz.* - «S2S
er at
Übl '" Tt ,P' Th ' atr ">
CDge fill , r> g r R ° mance of B'utßeard
t:< c
, The pafTage in Blue Beard to which
: q Hl . aud.ence gave a political replication.'
rom very improperly introduced at this per
bers because ,t was evident that it ,-a. liabl, '
,ded fucb a conftruftion. The Playhouse i.
ther no means a proper place for politic, ; , nd
his hope that the managers will be cautiom
rati- -authors happen to be indiscreet.
- B r .rcJ?j Drunken Skeleton in' Blue B ( i
rom earth, for ,t was very difficult to ret
Fra- head under ground. In this situation he | 0
tno ed like Dr Giahamgiving his leAure in
hto Earth Bath.
1 in j January jo.
• c< * Mr. Wiekham, late minister at fcafle
j now police magistrate at the Hatton G
eed en °ffiee, in the room of Mr. Chamt
i its | lain Clark,
ty.- j .
j The ship Harriet , belonging t# Thor
the j Barton, Esq. of Liverpool, has made J
are voyages from thence to Barbadoes and ba<
Jn- >n io years and 3 months,
s a
The Roman Catholic inhabitants of si
iff* er al towns in the north ps Ireland have pt
rce licly exprefTtd their regret for the offenc
fe- commit.t'ed by many of their deluded bret
-d. ren , and their resolution to use every *m
re, sure to rcftorc the tranquility of the c«u
:e, try.
Ms
in, two yoimg geutiemen loft in t
E- Viceroy Packet were sons of the late W
th Clements, Vice-Treasurer of Ireland, ai
lis nephews to the Earl of Leitrim—not ti
as sons of Sir John ParnelJ, as erroneously ft
is, ted.
'y
al ~ T^ e Papal minifterj effr.r the French arj repar
t ion that may fce j hnt from the ftngni;
held by the French ambafiador, and hy the'min
- ter of foreign affairs, no reparation will be aocf
™ ted The fate of Rome seems decided. The fit
is meafureg purfutd by the diredlory, in cwifeqnw
,y of the arabaffadot's letter, have been to arrest tl
v _ at Paris, and to order genet
„ Berthier to march a corps of republican troopi:
gainst Roral, for the purpofeof exading
for the outrage committed again® the French u:
it tion in the perfsn of its niiaifler ; andthetri-ci
;s loured flag will probably faori wave up»n the cap
f tol. For what pjirpofes.of partition or compent
tion the dominions of his+olinefsar« required,
e is impossible yet to conjeSnre. The bad faith 1
t Venice (real or rretended) came very opportune!
d to furr.ifii tlie crGions at Campo Formio, but whi
_ treaty of pfunder are thefpoilso/ Ke«i J defltw
to promote ? Time probably will diltlofe
great political views ivhjch tl)i« outrage against
power unenvied' in its political influentCi and pet
1 ie&ly harmlefswith refpedl toiMmiiiwyeiertion
s >*> ay be calculated to answer. * '
j General Duohot, lately afljffinatcd at Rome, wa
■ to c»tnuand fh« grenadiers of the amy ci Eng
lar>d - he was geflcra'ly refpeyied by the army 0.
1 Italy, and in particular hf general Buonaparte,
i __
There fefms ro be but one opinioa refj»eSin)
[ the late ii furrccKon at Rome, th« detail*ofwwhsu f
ha/e teen conveyed by the official
I of the French minister Euonaparu. appsW 1
perfectly clear the i'.ifnneilion wa> originally «nf:-
gated by French eiuiffaries, for thepurpnfe of »'•'
fording a pretext lor the reuewaj ef hoftilitic* »•
gainlt the Papal governmert. Not fatisfied « '
th. plunder which the French general* have eitrne*
ted ircm the territory of the enfeebled
. dire Scry f.e*i to have meditated the .complex'. «•
tiniSion of his jovernhicnt. and the addition e^
Rome itfelf 11 the already ovagi own power of
Frcncli republic,. . . 1The Mlowisg notice wis yeßerda? Anck «!?
at Lloyd's:
By letter! f.om France, we we tafornvc
that vrfleU with Eftglifh goods on board. -.re tn
the utmost danger at Hamburgh and Altona;
and that all Ihipraents may be fufpend-d until
.farther order«. We learn aifo, that a• 1 vcffeN
hound to France from Inglsni, will be fcized
on their arrival."
A French paperfays, that a Fru«Hu-or (4th
September) i» expe&ed in Holland. The lame
juuntalift flatet, that the ci-devant marquis de
Boaueaire uirreftedon achar-eof having f;'e- •
. quently eceived money from Knqtind.
Eaglift) goods, we understand, have been fciz- I
ed in Spain and Holland, on the fanae day at in
France.
By letttri received on Thursday from Jerfcy,
■w* learn, that an army :» afiembied at St. Ma
loei, for the purpole of attempting the eonqueft
'of that island. The Frencb force consists of
twenty-four thousand men The ippiehenfiont
in Jersey, however, are said to be very inconlide
rable, at the inhabitanti have the moll perfefl
reliance on the courage and discipline of the
troops Rationed in that iflaitd, and in the tal
ents and eonduiH ot General Gordon, who com
mands them.
The prevailing colour* at the court on the
queen's birth night were brown, eoquelicot, and
royal purple. The head-drefiet were ornament
ed with bauiteaus of latin ar.d ostrich feathers.
The hair yias worn in ioofe curls in trout, flat
at the Tides, so as to (how the ears, and either
ftor» turned np, or in cr>p beh nd
The ornaments molt worn were gold neck
]:ces, with ainethyfte, or topazes, set round
with pearl ; or brilhant sockets, half moon
shape, and crofles ; or diirnond neeklaces, set
in collets, hanging loose abo'it the neek.
The Prin'-eft of Walej't dress was the most
elegant a't court, and added greatly to the chtrms
of her person, which appeared most beautiful;
the colours of the petticoat and train were lilac,
black and silver, richly embroidered with a dra
pery of fiiver, the petticoat firiped - and bordered
with the fame ; the robe of lilac velvet, border
ed round to correspond, an.) most superbly orna
mented round the neck and on the Moulders with
diamonds ; her head dress was quite new, the
"cap of lilac and silver, and the priwrefs't plume,
set in diamonds, was elegantly displayed 'in the
front. „ |
The princess Elizabeth's garter came oft
while file was dancing a minuet with the d kc
of Charence, at her majesty's hall on Thur.d.v 1
night. Her Koyal HigHw*
appriffd of the circumftancehy princess Sophia,
but quoting the motto, Honiftit qui <naly ptnfc,
(he finifhed her dance before (he paid any atten
tion to the titterly admonition. The garter wat
white.
January jj.
On Saturday orders were difpaiched from the
admiralty, to the commanders of Erg l ifti (hips
eruifing in the Mediterranean, to have 110 in
tercourse with any vefielt coming from the
island of Corlica, it being reported that thi
plague rages there with such violence that num
bers die atly of the infetflion.
Capt. Bergeret, who commanded La Virgi
aie, whea tha- frigate was captured by Sir Ed
ward Pellew, hi* gone to France,to represent to
the dire<3ory the humane and liberal treatment
which the French prifonert experience ia this
country, and to solicit his own exchange for
Sir Sidney Smith.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has prefentfd
the Living of Bedington, in' the comity of Kent,
worth 4001. per ann. to the Rev. Mr Nares,
lately married to lady C. Spen er, daughter of
thedoke of Marlboraugh, who has been pleafcd
to fettle an annuity upon his daughter.
| SWIZZK-LANer
By accounts from Bern, of the »!th Decem
ber, it appears that the greatest unanimity pre
vailed in the councils of that state ; that all
political disputes were so entirely laid aside, that
the firft deputy appointed to the diet had been
supported, and tven nominated by the very
party whose measures he had hitherto uniform
ly oppofad.
The fame spirit continued to animate the
. troops as well at the inhabitants at large ; those
of the Pays deVaud in particular had given the
I raoft unqueftioriable proofs of their affeftien and
fidelity to the government.
The French generals, alarmed at the milita
ry appearance and t enthufufm of the troops of
thecariton of Bern, apprehenfivc also of a gene
ral infurreflion in the protectant part of the
bifhpric ofßafle, had withdrawn their forces
from the territory of BienNe, and from the
whole of the plain country, and had retired in
to the Jura.
The inhabitants of Bienne had displaced the
municipal officers chosen Uy the French, aad
had called on the neighbouring cantons to gua
rantee their ancient rights and privileges.
The cartont of Zurich, Soleure, and Fri
bourg, had warmly approved the condtnS of the
, government of Bern ; and there fctsni every
reason to believe that, with the exception of
Basle, all the other ftatet will ail ia ptrfeA con
cert with the leading Canton
A disavowal of any hostile intention, and some
aukward explanations of the eircumftancet ac
companying the invasion, had been give* by Mr.
Bacher, and it may be collefled from the lan
guage of some of the French journalt, and the
total ftlence of others which were lately loud on
•he f'ufajVdt, that the directory has experienced
a severe disappointment oa this occasion, and
that it it now persuaded that its friends in
Switzerland had given very falfe accounts both
of their own strength, and of the temper and
fpn it of the government ind the inhabitanti.
In the mean time, Switzerland continue* to
bi inundated with French libelt; the dififtc£l
ed fubjedls, who have quitted their refpeilive
cantons, are invited to civic fcfls in the house
of the new Fiench minister at Basle ; and the
whole attention of the French government feemt
now to be direfled to the separating some
one or more of, the cantom from the con
federacy. In this attempt it it generally believ
ed that the French will succeed only with the
canton »f Basle. Since the French have obtain
ed poflellion of the Pcrentrui, and the country
ca.led the Frichthal (which the Aullrian* ap
pear to have ceded by fame secret article of the
treaty of Carapo Formio J, this small canton it
left entirely at the mercy of the French.
We jre happy in having an opportunfty to
lay before our readers the note that Mr. Wick
ham delivered to the Helvetic body on hit recall.
In the language and cor.dufl which the British
iwnifter was direiSled to hold upon this occa
tion, the world will fee a new proof of the ex
treme moderation by which his raijefty's con
<l'j<n tow ards neutral natioas ha* ur.il'orrolr beea
guided.
[ ra.wsiATioM ]
► s ■ NicroßT, nor. a».
" mmd PtiMcrful Lords,
M Although your lordfhjps have not comruunU
me the demand which the executive direc
toiy of France lately made to you cecceming my
R'iOion, I could not, however, be ignorant of whut
wairotoriotu to all Switzerland, aadl in confe
quci at ieewed it my duty to commuaicate it to my
rnort. not omitting at th.< fame time, to point cut
1 'h. into I 'tag iiunuer iu which ic was traafmitteO
t» voar lord (hips.
Ia the wfeaia whkh. attacks
alike the law of uatlont, a: J vour antifpt dignity r
and the hat no' failed to ob
- ferv ths perfiJio«< intention of diflolvisgthe ti;S
of Iriendfhip which fc-vc at all timesat»a:hed his
majesty to your states, aad the premeJttated plan
of nnderminiigtbe very fonndstio::i of y
federacy.
" l'erftnded of thittrnth, hismajelly (who, in
fending his minifler inti Snitz-Tland, «iihed to
give a proof of his good will and frren '{hip to
wards you) will not allow hi* rcfi 'ence there to
Crve at a prceitt to the hvflile project o' a neigh
bor, 'a hofc ambition rr.fpe3» usicher ju.lice cor
' the laws of f.;vereignty, and who '■» aiftuarcd with
• 110 ot' er desire than to introduce into your
' toantries that dellruSive fyft;ra, fro-n which, by
the help of Divine Puovidence, you have bern hi
therto enabled to prot.:& them.—. he King hat in
1 confeqaence Ggned his c mmands, that his whole
mifliun (hould withdraw from yuur territorict !
without loft of time . *
7 "In cammunicating r£t« rr£el«tionto yo«r lord
-1 fhipt, I have theKing'* t-xp'e('t command* to as
. sure ynu, that it is dilated by no othttmotive than
hi» anxious folici'u le for the pref rvation of your
; tranquility; and that your may fully'rely
. on a cominuance of that eood-will an i friet.rllhip
. which have ever formed the bifi* of his m-j.-fty't
ron<Hi<st in all his with your Hates
" I eager y embrace this oppgriunity to expjefs ;
j to you indivi uaily, my ackrunviedgmrnts for the ,
mannrr in which your lordftiips h«ve Hccn'pleafed
to receive me during ray m (fi.>n, and n-.y regret at
being no longer the organ of the benevolent senti
ments of my sovereign towards yoti
1 •' In offi ring up my sincere prayersfor the prof
prrity and tranquility of your lir" trs, I have the
■ honor to be, with thi highest consul --?tion,
" Magnificent and PowerfiS Lords,, !
(Signed) «• WUaCHAM.*
The following is the answer of the for Fo
reign Affairs, to Citizuri Jofcph Buonaparte. j
' Paris, nd Nivofe—Jari. 11 !
• " I have received, citizen, the dill letter 1
, which you wrote to me, on the fh -eking cvcits
- whick took place at Ronie 011 the Sth of Nivofe.
i The mofl base and perfidious villair.y could not
have teen carried so a greater length. The French
- Republic will hivtua reparation worthy herfe f ;
4 of 'hi- you, may be certain —Receive, then, from
; this affurawce, the only consolation which can be
, g' I ' 4o to him whu hat fc n oue of his best frienrit,
e and one of th* mnrt intrepid defenders of the re
public, die by hn fide
Notwithstanding th care you have taken to con
£ cealalmoft every thing that perfofta'ly reljrei t«
_ your conrtu.'i -n tb .r day, you have not
pre* ntcT ut from difc(iv>ring thlt 1 ynu have sup
ported with anagnan mity the hone rof tlieFr nch
' name.
' The diredlory charge me to expreft to you ip
the strongest and warrneft manntr, th'* lively Otif
® fail ion which they have received from your con
. cluil in th t affair. I hope you will.readily he ieve
that lam happy in btiiig their organ in communi
c eating these sentiments.
8 Health and Fra'ernry.
Ch. I a llk aa KB Pe a IGO R D."
PORTSMOyTH, January ai.
TVo Jews are just apprehended and lodged i'b
goal, for treafonab e praiflicet, having papers
• containing foundings, markt of the harbour,
- Spithead, &c. in their pofleflion.
1 WEVMOUIH, Jan il.
s An Englilh captain and one lady came in the
r Dicket from Jeifey to Weymouth on Wednef
day last; thry left St. Maloes on MoAday. In
d answer to the question, how forward the French
> were in ihetr expedition for invading England .'
'» thry informe ', that at the ar»ove port there
1 were only four gun-hoatt in their frame, and
d had been layir.g so these two yea s ; but the
people of all rankt fpetk very much of invading
*4,ra- ccutrrry- r theje jJfaJijttltat the English will
not exchange p ifonert. and we have now ihut
- all their countrymen up in close prifont, and
' arc going to them.
An English captain was about to make hi. *f
' cape over the ili« where he was
n confined ; the French centinel saw him, and
y inflainly run his bayonet into hit body, and
in drawing his mnfquet back, left the bayonet
behind ; the captain then fell from the wall,
e drew the bayonet out of his body, and thrust it
e into the centinel't, and they both died fide bv
e fide. 7 '
d
DUBLIN, Jan. 17.
f Yeflerday morning at ten o'clock the, long
- expeded trial of Patrick Finney commenced
e high treason, on twocounnj firft, for
» conspiring the death of the king ; second,
e ! for adhering to his cnemiet; the proofs of
which were to be comprised in thirteen o
e vert ads, stated in the indiament.
i The Jury, after an able charge from the
. bench, and a most humane recommendation
from the king's counfcl, returned a verdidt
- ofnot guilty. The trial laded till 3 o'clock
e this morning.
Yesterday being the day appointed for a
! solemn thanksgiving to Almighty God, for
the brilliant success, of his majelly'* fleet,
c under the command of admiral Dunean, his
- excellency the iord lieutenant went in (late
■ to Christ Church, attended by both houses
of parliament, and the lord mayor and cor
i poration of Dublin.
| FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE,
JANUARY 90
Admiralty OfFici, January 20.
Copy of a letter from Captain Sir Edward
Pellew, commander of his Majesty's /hip
Indefatigable, to Evan Nepeati, Esq. da
ted at Sea, January 11.
I Have the pleasure to inform you, that
I have captured this day, in company with
the Cambrian andChilders, a French fchaon
er privateer, Lc Vengeur, of 12 guns and
72 men, quite new, eight days from Oltend,
without having made any prizes, and have
sent her to Falmouth.
Copy of a letter freni Sir Edward Pellew,
Bart. Captain of his Majefty'g ship In
defatigable, to Evan Nepcan, Esq. dated
at Sea, the 16th inft.
This evening, after a chaee of four hours,
the squadron in company, I had the plea
sure to capture L'lnconceivable French
privateer, from Duukirk, out tea days, ta
ken nothing, armed with 8 gnng, and man
ned with 55 men.
This Gazette also contains the speech of
Earl camden, the Lord Lieutenant of Ire
land, to both Houses of Parliament of that
Kingdom, delivered on the 15th instant, of
which the following are the most material
padages: >
" It must have given you great concern
to learn that his Majesty's endeavours to 1
re (lore the bltffings of peace have been again ,
fruflrated by the difperate ambition of the
1 French Government. I havr his Majesty's '
(commands to lay before you bis " >y;;l IV 1 ;
deration, and the various papers \vh>Ji pas- 1
| fed in the course of the late negotiation, in ( \
, which the magnanimity and moderation ot 1
his Majesty were so eminently displayed, as ]
t» leave no pretext or colour for the infidi- (
ous conduft and fallacious datcmcnts of the <
enemy.
" His Majefly relies with confidence oa
the fpiritofhis people of Ireland, who
' are sensible of their duty to their God, their 1
1 Sovereign, and their country. He knows 1
they are incapable of being intimidated by
, any threats, or deluded hy any offers ; and
1 he implicitly depends on the valour, of his
regular and militia forces, the adtive loyal
-1 • ty.of the diftrift corps, the courage of the
j nation, and the prowess of his fleets and
. • armies, for defeating every hodile attempt
1 j which may be made on this kingdom.
' ! "I have to lament, that the diligence
' j and activity of the wagiftrates, though af
j 1 filled by the troops which have been order
ed into that part of the kingdom, have not
* : yit been able entirely to put a dop to these
" didurbances. Condant vigilance and unre-
I mitting exertions continue to be necessary,
when all means are tried to excite the peo
ple to rebellion and revolt, when a syste
matic plan of afTafGaation is adopted aad
c encouraged, and when the mod audacious
j attempts are made to impede and prevent
the adminidration ofjudice."
wmctw—www— —
\m
By this day's Mail.
:s NEW-YORK, March 14.
Yederday arrived ship Pigou, capt. Sin-
clai'r, from Montego Bay, Jamaica, last
from Gape Nich'ola Mole. By her we
II hear that orders had arrived there for the
>e British commander to Evacuate port an
'• prince with all poffihle fpjed.
j The Pigou, on coming to anchor in the
, ead river, fainted the city with 11 guns.
>< ' A letter from St. Croix, dated Feb. 2,
| fays, on the fird of Jan. Vi&or Hugue's
1 merciless Guillotine took off the heads of
jp 200 whites and blacks! [The revolt was
f thus quelled!]
'• We underhand that general Marqnis de
Rvuvray died at St. Marc, in St. Domin
go the 28th of January last, in the 68th
, year of his age.
Extract «f the register of the Deliberations
IB of theCommiflion dtlagatedby the French
r government to the leeward islands.
Having seen the letter of the general ia
chief, Touffaint Louverture, dated the 3d
Plnviofe in which he proposes to the com
-11 million meafures relating to the off-
I ners of French privateers.
" The commiflion decrees as following ;
, Art. I. All litigations existing between
r j Frenchmen before the Spanish tribunals,
id are to be brought before the tribunals of
ie the French part of St. Domingo,
g 11. All the owners and maders of French
II privateers arc ordered to convey their pri-
zes to the French part of St. Domingo ex
cept in cases of utter impossibility.
(•_ The present drcree ftmll be recorded ftl
as the Official Bulletin of St. Domingo.
Done at the Cape 6th Pluviofe 6th years
111 of the French republic one and indivisible.
*l' Signed in the regider.
u ' The oommiffary of the French go
vernment
RAIMOND.
The secretary general,
True Copy. Pascal.
g
d It isfaid thatourfellow-citizen|Mr.Murray
, r and his comrade, who carried to prison
1, lad November j begged to know the motives
>f for their arred ; but all in vain—no reasons
j. were assigned.
So in this country, men, hearing of this
e fa<3, inquire "why our atizens in Piris arc
n sent to prison }
it It is really strange : that after five years
k of experience, w* should perfid in afki'ng
for the reafont of the condudl of the French
a government, " Jupiter vult" ; thefovereign
>r will and pleasure of the men in power, is
t, reason enough.
is The following anecdote froma wor.k now
t- intheprefs,
*s will illudrata the eharadler of French juf
tiee.
" The Marechalle de Biron, a very old
and infirm woman, was ia the Luxembourg
'» in Paris, where also her daughter in-law, the
duchess was also confined. A cart arriving
at the prison to convey a number of viftims
d to the Tribunal, the lid, in the coarse di-
Palest of republicanism, contained the name
1- of laftmme Biron. " But there are two of
them," said the keeper. «' Then bring
them both,', wa3 the reply. The aged ma
il rechalle, who was at supper, concluded her
1- meal while the red wefe preparing, then
took up her book of devotion and departed
It cheerfully. The next day both mother
c and daughter were guillotined."
This anecdote will answer answer all en
quiries after French reasons foi their public
', , conduft, whether it regards the arred of in
dividuals, the plunder of American proper
d ty bound to their own ports, the non-re
ception of our envoys, or any of their ether
» measures.
1 We hear with pleasure that the mod per
lianoonv fnbfifls between our envoys in
France. The decyphering of their dispat
ches to our executive, we understand, is not
yet linifced-
BOSTON, March 8.
t • Extraß of a Utter from Samuel Cabott, esq.
, a merchant in this totun, dated London
I Jan. 6, 1798.
I have the pleasure to inform you, that
1 : a decree paflVd the court of appeals, on
> ■ the 16th ult. reverfingthe sentence of the
» j court of admiralty at Monfernt, which
: ; condemned the brig Lydia and caigo—the
was as follow:, viz. " The court
prone aiiot J the veffil and cargn to Kav; 1--
longed as claimed, and decree the firr.e to
he rcftorfd, or the thereof paid to the
claimant, for the life of the owner and pro;
prietor thereof, and condemn the refpon-
Jc .t in tht cods of the appeal, from the
expiration of the term probatory."
NORFOLK, March 6.
The brig Betfey.capt. Steel arrived here
on Saturday in 21 days fYotn Guadalouws,
confirms the accauntfometime fiuce publlHi
ed, of an infurredHon in that island. The
only particulars we can come at are—that
the Negroes, who, it' is well known, hare
been made French Citizens by their patron
Victor Huours, finding tbpmfclves some
what retrained in their ficentioufnefa, dt
tcrmined to destroy all the whites, in which
attempttheirdearly beloved Vi£lor had nigh
fallen, having, in the course of the engage
ment, two pidols fired at him.
There were upwards of 1500 of the
sooty-colored difcipl.cs to lib rty and equali
ty laid biting the dull; and the day after the
mighty F'iflor put 150 more of tlvra to
in cool blood!
Xfte <sasettc*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, March 15.
———«*aSjg§j|jSss3 ;H »——
The French decree for capturing all neu
tral veflels having British manufa&urtu or
produce on board, pafled both councils u
nanimoudy.
For our Correspondent at J\ r ctu-Torl.,
" The following 13 from an authentic
source :
" Three men have been taken up lad
week at Perth-Amboy, and committed to
the jail in New-Brunfwn.k', who belonged
to the British frigate Hermione whose crew
seized the (hip, murdered the officers, and
delivered her up to the Spaaiards, in Sep
tember lad.
" They came to Amhoy in the brig Re
lief, capt, Mandeville, from St. Domingo,
and their names art Williams Brigftock, a
native of New-York, Johannes Williamfon,
a swede, and Michael Campbell, an Eng
lishman. On examination before the magi
strate, they acknowledged, that they were
on board at the time of the mutiny, but
denied being concerned in tbe horrid afts
committed by a part of the crew. The firfl
was boatfwain.'s mate the other two belong
ed to the tops." (Phil. Gax.J
Errata in Mr. Otis's speech in yester
day's Gazette—3d col. 21 line from top,
for " Roffia" read PruJJia. Same col. 54
line following, for " requiring" acquiring.
In the fourth col. after the word sphere, in.
. 20th line from the bottom, insert the fol
lowing line omitted by tniftakr, " a people
influenced by an exclujive attachment to their
o<wn country, and looking up."
" A real American"—-To-morrow.
Sin*"—footo.
The following article which appears to
corroborate the report of the capture of the
Spanifli fleet by :idmiral Orde, is copied
from the Sun, of Jan. 15.
Advices have been receivsd at the Admi
ralty Office from Earl St. Vincent, dating
that two rich Spanish (hips had reached Ca
diz Harbour. They were part of a fleet
from South America, very richlv laden.—
His lordship was immediately to put to sea
to intetcept the remainder, and as the Spa
nish fleet was out, or about to fail to pr*t<.&
them, a rencontre between the two Fleets,
we trust, will be the confequencs.
FROM A LATE LONDON PAPER
The following Angular and melancholy
event occurred at Bilfton, on Wsdnefday
fe'nnight A butcher had been employed
to kill a pig at a house at that place, and
after having hung it up he imprudently left
his knife behind him ; when a boy about
four years old, who had seen the pig killed,
took the knife, and ((hocking to relate)
Itabbed an infant under the ear, as it lay
asleep in a cradle : Alarmed at the blood
which flowed from the wound, he immedi
ately ran into the yard to his mother, who
was drawing water at a well ; the fight of
the bloody knife, and the boy's cri»s, so
terrified the poor woman, that'the windlass
flipped from her hand's, and ft ruck the boy
with such force on the head, that it killed
htm on the spot f ! The didrefs of the mo
ther, after losing two children in this dread
ful manner, may be better conceived than
described.—-
. T^ e Emperor Paul has revoked the pro
hibition upon the importation of Norwich
driped goods, and fettled the tariff upon a
footing the mod favorable to this country.
We are told by the jacobins, that the
military officers in the Britffh service are too
fluggiffi to set such an example to their sol
diers as may impel them to refid, with fuf
ficient ardor, the impetuous troops of France
slushed with conqued, and annimated by
their enthufiadic leaders. Jf the French
dare to land on our coad, we doubt not,
however, to fee the fleady valor of Eng.
lifhmen, employed in supporting the free
dom of their country, triumph over the
ruffian ferocity of miscreants, intent only
upon plunder.
By intelligence received'frem Bruflels, it
appears thai the United Departments con
tinue to enjoy the blessings in which they
have been permitted to participate ever since
the amalgamation of Belgium with the
French republic. That domiciliary villts,
for the purpose of discovering requi/ition m n
and deserters, are more frequent than ever ;
that many such perfnns have bren pn grcf
l.vely sent to Dunkirk, to be incorporated
T?itfc other velunteerg in the army nf England,
GjZET 7 E MAR INE LIS 1.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The ship Jenny, capt. Dean is arrived
New-York from Canton.
Two brigs and two fchooncri are below
—one of the fchooncrt from Halifax, lh«
vefitl that -fayed t lie crew of the (hip Fame.
A vefiel has arrived at New-York from Can
ton, that parted company from the ship Pi
go u, capt. Clay of and for this port fram
Canton the 13th December last, in the
Strait* of Siinda.
New-Tori, March 14.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Pigo'i, Sinclair, Jamaica 28
Bchr. Neptune, Mann, Wilmington 11
Ship Severn, on her paffitge to Liverpool
was bqarded by a French privateer and dif
raid'ed after examining her papers.
Ship Edinburgh Packet, Ablin, arrived
at Leith id. Jan. fr»m this port.
The Henry Packet, from New York to
Rotterdam i* loft in Helvoet Roads.
Jt*loM3re, M ,rcb 12.
Arrived it it o'clock on Fadiy uight fchr.
Elizabeth, John nulter, 26 days
from jaqt.emcl.
y Feb 13d, was boarded by hii Britannic ma*
jtilj'sfhip Valiant, of 74 guns, and treated pc
litely—fix more men of war in company, 7
weeks out from Jamaica —they came through
the gulph with a large iieet of raereh«nr (hips j
they had one Spanift fchr- a prize (rem La Vera
Cruz, with merchandize. They cruised feve*
rat days off the liavanna, and iud taken the La
Y*ra Cruz flett.
Whilst thr above ships wrrecruifing off the
Havaniu,there were nine fail of. the fine lying
. there, which did not venture out.
Yelierday arrived (hip Harmony, captain Ro
-1 binfon, ninety eight days from Ratavia, brings
no news. The Harmwßy has made her Voyage
to and from Ratavia in eight mo >th —thin may
be accounted one of the quii kefl ever made from
the United States The Patapfco, captain Jo
t feph Mitchell, from this port, was to fail on tht
> 20th rjecember.
1 "Din .—III
r * % * Mefirs. Sicard and Quesnet, iu
1 form that their Ball is till to
. morrow evening, on account of the weather.
NiiW-THEAT R 7"
> TO-MORROW EVENINC, March 16,
1 Will be prefert V, a liagetiy, called,
H A M f E T;
PRINCE of DENMARK
Hamkt, mi Perm-il (tning Ins £rtl appea-.-nc®,
* in that char->flcr ihefe our y ( ars) King, mr War
t rrn; Ghost, mr Marshall; Horatio, nit Kox; I ,a
---j rtes, .mr Harditige; Polomus mr Morris; Ro
[ feocrai », mr W»rrelJ;j«n.'.Guil<Ji;rft—n inr Tay
lor; Francifcp, mr .bliilett; Marce'.lus, mr T,
A'arrell; Bernardo, mr Warrell; Oltric mrFra»-
">•5 I-ucianu*, mr fiiiffctt; Grave Diggers,' meffrs
Harwood & Bliflett
Queen, mts Merry; Ophelia, mrs Marshall;
Player Queen, mrs L'JEftranjjc
' To which will be jdded, a Comic Opera, («»per
(■ formed at Covenr .jrden Theatre, upwards (it
1(0 nigh.O called
1 LOCK AND KEY.
Brummagem, air Francis; Cheerly, mr. Fox;
f Captain Vain, mrW'arrel;; jun. Ralph, mr Har
p wo*d
La*ra, mrs Warrell} Fanny, mrs Oidraiion;
elina, mifi Milbourne; Dolly, m'if» L'iitlrar.jje.
(£}" On Saturday,(not afted this Season)
The Rage—with (for the last time) Oftar
and Ma/vina.
*„* On Monday, The Way to get Mar
' rlcd:—with entertainments.
t+f Mrs. MERRVi night will be on
Wcdnefday next.
; L A N.D I N G
t From on hoard the Schooner Rang sit, from
jACSPiMF.L,
( 230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
Fo' Sir/r hi
[ SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 127 Chefnut-ftreet.
' ' Who has remaining on hand 6, co pieces In
■iia N iNKEEiNS, of a superior quality.
it d6f
Jufl received, and for Sale at the Bookflore »f
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. 5a Second reet.
I a Complete history of
i CONNECTICUT,
CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
i'rom the emigration o! i Hct planters from En
, gland in 161©, to '1713.
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d b.
,V 0 VMS I
Eiftbellifhed with a forrcil .Map of the State, and
I P rtraiti of fern: oi the firft iattltrs-; from origi
ai pointings.
match 1 r, *eogw
r Ran away from the fubl'criber,
1 ">rT,the f 4th ir.il two iwilenrcd Irish Servant Ment
» homa9 M'Guire, about years of age>4nil 5
oet 8 inches h:gh» robiift, (lout, and well made
;Wt black hair, remarkable for a fear on one o»
temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious/
ind unprincipled and decoyed fron my
' -'•"vice Jcf.i Corb< t, about th®. fame asje anw*
ieight, but of a milder disposition, and moreflsn
cr make, ibort brown Hair ; their working appa*
»el was blue cloth over jacket!, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brotvn linen (birrs, gr?y
yarii flockiuji, mixed twilled grey clotli trowfers,
n<l rufFett leather iboc^; they hav« othi r cloathing
which a. tog ether gives them the appearance of fea
.aring men, Kut been brought up to the farm
ing bufirr fs y no doubt will have forgedpaffe> arid
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
, hive taken the post road to Plvlapelphia, I pnr
chaf.d them the la!i fall of capt. Rwllms, in Balti
more. I wiil give Fifty Dollars for/fecuring them
so that I get them, and will pay all reafonabjc
charges brought home, or if fcparated, Thirty
Oiiiari'fortkomii, and Twenty for Icffry.
ARTHUR BRYAN,
, Head of Wye, i albot County-*-March
march 14
FOR SALE, at : "
Wm. Young's Book Si ore,
No. 5 i. Second fimet, the corner of Chrfnut r r »et.
R1 POU I' of the Committee of the HcLfec.f
R:|.r«fcntative»ol the United States, anoint
ed to prepare sr.d report Articles of Imp-ac), mt . n t
. a»..inft V.-ILLI «iM BLOUNT, a Senator ,f she
Uiu-ed States, impeached of high crimes ar j mit
made 111 vurfuance oi a relolution of
t 1 c Houfu of Representatives, authoriring the said
Cammitteeto fit during th : recefe »f Congref., and
, inftruiling th' tn "to enquire, and, by all awful
, " riieans, todifenver th whole nature ar.o extent
. " cf the offeree wfecru.f tl\e laid W illi in Blourt
" (lands laapeache., aad who are tlx; Arties aß d
" auociatcstherein."
' Pr £ Ud b order >.ftkt of Reprr/tntati'vei
. D*'ember •1 .UASIRY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798-
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
rN rurfuancc-of tltf AS of C«i E refs paffcd on tl.e sixth day of July one thcniW seven hundred and
ni ry-f.-vn), til led •" An A<fl layijg ilutiee or Vellum, Parchmentand Paper , ana tne
,\<.'l -' .lied on the fifteenth day of Decomher, one thouf»i\d fevcn hundred and ninnty-feven, cntit e
'■ An A -t to portpone for a limited titpe the commencement of the dutus imposed by the Aft enti
tled " An Ad hying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
Crft day of Jwly enf»ing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.'
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon WliUh {lull be
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings following—to wit:
DIJ Cts. Mh.
Any Certificate of Natnralization. ..... 5
Any Lkence to pratfice,or Certificate of the admifficm,enrolment orregiftryof
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvocatt or Proflbr, in any Court of the
United States, ... - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of tke" Courts of the Ujfited States
for vne of 'he said Offices, (hall (b far as relates to the payment of the
dnty-aforefaid, toe a l'ufficjent admiflion in all the Conns of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, wider the seal or authority of the United Statet s 1
(except for lands granted for military Cervices) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
c.-pt for lands granted for military serviceS) - - - - *
Any Charter-Party, Bottt mry, or Refpondentia Bond, " I
Ar.y Receipt or discharge forOr on aeeountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or a
tfier testamentary instrument, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force ol any statute of distributions, other than to tiie Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (ball not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - f 11 j
When the»amount thereof shall exceed the ualue of One Hundred Dollars and
{hall not exceed five hundred dollars,
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Irjfurancc or inftmnient in naturf thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goodsjini'ured from one diftrifl to another in the United States, . ij
From the United States to any foreign port Or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed fire hundred dollars', * 5®
Whenthc sum infuted ffi'llexceed five hilndred dollars, • I
Ary Exemplification, of what nature fosver, that-fhall pass the seal of any
Court, Qlherthaj fcch as it maybe the duty of t<ve Clerk of such Court to
futuiih for the use of the United States or some- particular state, " 5°
Any rwitfj bifl single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other rote, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wiih the United States or any slate, or for their
uferelpeifUvtly, - - - - - . ■ >
If above twenty doHara and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
Jf above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, ( 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaod dollars, 50
And if above dollars, - - • - 75
Provided,. that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within Gxty days,
fush bonds or notes (hull be fubjeft to only two fifth parts df the duty (
aforefiid—-viz. - -
IF above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dirllars, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thnufand dollars, - - - " 30
Any Notes iflued fcvthebanks now eflablUhed, or that may hereafter be eltab
lilhed within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annu.il compofnion, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends rasde by such Banks, to their Stockholders rclpeaively, according to
the following feale. t
On all note 3 not e*ceedi«g fifty dollars, for each dollar, -
On all nous above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one handred dollars. 50
C n all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dcrttars, - - - - 1
6s all notes abo»e five hundred dollars, - .a
Anv Protefi or ether Notarial aA, - - - . - aj
Any* Letiei of Attorney, except for an invalid penfio», or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the lite war, . . .. . ' IJ
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five luii dred dollars. - - " 1
For five hundred dollars and rot exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more th.in t a othoufand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
I t from one difiriS to another diftria of the United States, not being in the
i'airr StaVe, - * - 10
If froio the United States to any foreign port or place, - -
A/.y Inventory or Catalogue of.any furniture, goods or effefls, made in any
cafe requited by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
. rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a fliare in the Bank of
tfie Untle'd States, or of any Slate or other Bank, - - • ! I
It-above .fwenty dollars and «it exceedingone hundred dolltrv - 10 >
If above one hundred dollars, *' * 15
If under twenty claflars, at the rate ef ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesafoTciaid will, he eolle&ed and recJived by the Supcrvifors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
of InfpeS i'on, is the several DiftriAs, Surveys and Divilions of the United State's, and by such other
persia« (hall from t® time be fpeeially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflriifts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the several Diftriifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may he praiticable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels «f Vellum, Parch
ment < r Paper, witk ony cf the rates of duties before enumerated, oh payment of the said duties ; Or
{lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.aj at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained ?t the rate.- preferibed by law, by application to any Supervilor, InfptSer, Officer of Infpeftian,
or oth<T psrfon appointed fouhe diflribution of Stßlnps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids.
GIVEN under my Hand, at Philadelphia
S the day and year abovemcntioncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
NOTICE.
\ LL persons who have any demands agaiuft
l\ the estate of Willam Fleswtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, ;re requested tq exhibit their accounts,
properly attcfled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to raake immediate
payment, to
. January 4. dtf
k . Just Published,
And ti» be had at the Book-iVores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
( Fevers.
To which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prafiice of
•liferent authors : and an - PEJiNDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and iefle<stion< /elative to
the Synoilus IClerniits, or Yellow Fever, which
lias occaftoned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of th« United America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
. ei-ty. Feb. I—*3ms
For (ale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-r.ift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flrett', fronting the State-
Ucufe fqtiare- This lot is si fly-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth flrett ; there ire at
present two fnull two flory bricjt houlicf, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient floret, wharf, 4tc. fitnateon
Water flreet, between Mull>erry an l SalTafras
Street?, containing in front on Water flreet fif
tyfour feet, and containing that breadth east
ward n nety-five feet, the* widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These hcufes
lave the convenience of a ptibl'C alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very dcfirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fallor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold 011 very reafonablc
■terms for rafo. For further information apply
to the printer.
July 31. ittAwtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very goad grift
Mill, with two pair of flones; also a good Forge, all
in pcrfefl repair, at are all the Water Works conntfl
ed with these various branches. The Air Farnaces
were lately built lor the purpose of calling Cannon
for this Stale.—There are abour two *ioufand acres
of Laed, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the befl Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manntattarcd there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, eqsal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of (he 14 were bored
' into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fiiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for tbis branch of
manufaQure, a«d a place of arms lying in the Date
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from.a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufePul purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flock and utensils, and have poffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, aptply to Mr. jolcph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefciuauves
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, Bsvid Waterman, on
thepremafos, or tothe proprietor in New-York.
- WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3 ,wtf
A 0 T I C E.
A ManufaSsry of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately erefled at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onihe Eafl Bank of Hudson's River, flare of New-
Yoik, where any article of various forts and shapes
may be executed, as well as earthern lloves upon a
new conflruflion, that favts three fourths ef the fuel
commonly used in cast iron {loves or open chymnirs;
they are befidetvery wholeforae aDd ornamental, by
applyingto .
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaaing part of the said waie. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Apply asab>'ve. or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South jth Street.
Feb. rq. eod4w
Wanted, to Hire y
A I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centreof the city—for which a generou«
.rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer »rrm. Inquire of thu Printer.
r 7* cots
For Sale,
, m - the sloop (
NOW lying at Ruffcl's V/arf--
«-ars old, built of the belt
Burthen 77 would answer well
F«,.™.pr>r » c vsmltb- '
$ ' M
march 13 '
Fo7 Boston,
, The Skip
COMMERCE,
Richard Waiftco'at, Majler.
To Oil in a few days.
A*y freight that may offn-,
Wm be takes on very moderate terms , for which,
nt paffag*, apvly Caj?tnin, or to t
Ijaac Harvey* jun»
5. Sou'Ji W^tcr-ftraet.
t §T W
march T2.
FOR SALE,
fK. > THF. BRIG
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, is coppered, fbeathed and bolted, 3 ysa-rs
oldfiiisremarkably Well, carries IS a i6ca bar
rels—now lying it SoUth-{lr*,L't wharf, ready 1 to
liaJ I'F.TER BLIGHT.
march 6.
For Hamburgh,
THE S H It
Dominick Terry,
JacoS DsHAfcr ? Majler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert fValn.
Ftbcuary 26 ■ V. -
For Sale or Charter,
goodhope
Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
is ready totake iu a cargo. For terms
apply to ~ _ . i
Pragersi& Co.
No. 151, South Secosd-llreet.
Who have for- file—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
TTVSoU, "
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifk trad laue, in
the townlhip of Moyamenfmg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upen application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance stand unrivalled.
N. B. It tbe above place is not fold before the
20th inft. it *ill then be rented, for the Summer
fcafon only. § march 5.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the business us the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Fresh Teas.
JuJl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain from Canton,
Ami For Sale, by
SiTOUTL'HOWEL-ir -
At his Co*nptjag House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftrcat,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a darted; black and coloured Lute
' firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fittin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone Hicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchii>fs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
march 8. §
7 o be Let an the Shares,
A valuable Farm ready stocked,
WITHIN 3$ miles from Philadelphia, on the
well fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike.
It is expeded th: tenant will find suitable per
sons to take care of a dairy yid attend market,
with all other necessary labour.
ALSO, WANTED,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, unless they can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-ftr«et,
march 5.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the Snbfcri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11, 1797— the fame
having been 1011.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 §6w
TO LET, ~
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three itories high, and in an excellent Hand for
bnfiaefs. Apply to
Thomas S3* yojhua Fi&er,
march I. § Mo. j, Dock-ilreet.
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friendtj Dan
lei Crawley, Mailer,
£ p?pt " nd j Jamaica RUM,
FOR. SALE BY
George Latimer £sf Son.
Tiovcrnhtr 9.
Canal Lottery—No. IL
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the SchuylkHl Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the C-ity of Waftiing
ton, No ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had In moft;of the Lotte
ries anthorifcd by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bafinefs of a Broker, inbuyinrand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities
difco*nting Bills and Notes of Hand, file of
Lands, House*, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
b X , WM. BLACK-BURN.
November 15. <?
Virginia Lands.
Ob Tuesday the 20th inft. will be fold for
Cafti, by Public AuAion, at the Mer- -
chant's Coffee-Houfe, *t 7 o'clock in
t» everting, .
THE Following bodies of Land in the State -
of Virginia, viz. ,
13,600 Acres situate on tie waters of B.g f
S ' e i6,^TA C res on the waters of the Little Ken- |
harva and the weft fork of the Monongaliela. ,
?0,4J0 Acres onthe waters of Buchannon river. ,
Particular defcriptionsof the Lands, and an ,
examination of the iitles may be had by app y t
FottUnan Iff Co. Auctioneers. j
March 12. ' duon ! <
nAVed n efd a y the 1
lift 'of March, an 7 o'clock in rhe Evening, at
the Merchai.tV Coffee House, for cafli,. l
AORt- EABI.Y t» the lift wil! nd teftar.ient of
Wilß»m Hojtham, deceifrd, and pollelHon
immediately, a valuable property in Art.-.
Srcct, between Third and F«urthftreets, triniivtiag
of the House No. 107, with the Lot on which it
ftan.is, a Stable and other improvements.. ?he
house is *c feet front and contains ten good apart
ments. The lot if of t«« fame breadth as the house,
and ICO feet dtep, with a well of water, and a (
very capacious walled cittern, both with pumps in <
compleat repair J The fl able Hands on the re rof ]
the lot, and-will accommodate four horses ar.d a j
carriage. Thiysroperty enjoys a perpetual privi- (
lege of a 26 feet ismt and an alley 8 feet wide, ex- j
tending to Cherry street. Its ctEtral poGtion, and j
the advantages it Boffeffes with refpea to free ven- (
tilatjon, renders it well worthy the attention of (
any person wilhing to possess an eligible property
in Philadelphia. .
Robert Heyjham, or | Acting
Francis Bowes Sayre, j Executors. ,
CONNELLY £e" Co. Auffrs.
N. B. The house will be open two days previ
ous to tt« fjc.for the infpe&ion of thoie who wife
to purchafcl march 7 §t2ift
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM F6 R T-A B-PK INO *,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCMCM&S,
i i o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
Ih. l of Mufcova4p£ttga£
! 80 banti* otdo.
40 hogflieads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hoeftieads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
marsh u. . §_
Landing from on board the ship
Tenncfl'ee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SALE by the Subscribers,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platiltes
100 do Creas
52 do. do. Ala Morlaix
ico do. Dowlas
20 do. red striped Arabias
20 00. blue Guingas
100 dozen bordered Handkerchiefs
Itrie & Lewis BMmann,
113, South Third street.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A cafe of printed Muslins and Calicoes
march it. sßt
Hibernian Society.
A Special meeting of the Hibernian Society
for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland,
will be held at Mr. Tiird-ftreet, on
Friday next, thi YitSfinlEat in «hi e
»ening.
The Anniversary Meeting of the Society, will
be held at the fame place oh Saturday the 17th inft.
jiLooi o'clock-?. M.
Dinner virjlljse on tfietable at haTT "after three.
Those who intend to dine with the Society, are
requeued to fend their names to Mr. M'Shane, 011
or before Friday next.
MATTHEW CAREY, Secretary.
march 12. d.st
The Creditors of the late Mr.
John Gould
Are requested to meet at the house of WiU
lumSmith, Walnut near Front street, on Thurs
day the 16th inft at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March la- 4t
The Commifliontrs
FOR carrying into effett tb« TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendfliip, Limits,and
( Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty and tlve
, Unit<-d Stattsof Amnrica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned—That in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
> es sustained by the citizens of the United States, in
conlequence of their Yeffels nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subj«<Sts of His Catholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc;,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily} alt
complaints aild applications, authorized by the said
Article, during EioHTttN months, from the day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine all such persons as came bsfore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
1 qutftion, and also to receive in evidence, allwrit
: ten testimony, authenticated in filch manner as
• they &all think proper, to require or admit.
6 By Order of the Cdmmijfiijners,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commiffuners Office, No. 109, MMcrry
frect, May I Tib, 179 7.
Feb. 28, '98 —$im
*« * Thtft Printers in the fevertl States tlieNullifi
ed the above advetti/emnt last Sfrirlg, are rtquejiat to
re-publijb it one month, andfend their accounts to P. L.
r To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benyimln Franklin, capt.
Jog«s, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC ") Of the vintages of 1790 and 1791,
LATOUR j in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
CRAMOND fcf Co.
march 7. §
A Wet Nurse wanted^
A healthy Woman, who can be well recommen
' ded. Apply at this Office.
> march 12. §
To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot
' thereto belonging, <n the city of Burling
y ton, New-Jerfcy. The house has three rooms
below, and three chambers in the upper story.
" The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil ing. The
Lot has a front of 72 feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
, length of the Lot is about 250 feet—The hexft
e commands a very pleafam profpeil of the river,
and of the Borough of Bristol, on the Pennlyl.
j vania ftiore. Immediate pofleflion may be had.
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
f Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Piii.
, lidelphia, or the fubferiber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE.
Burlington, march i. *eods\r
Custom Housn,
TDifiriacf Pennsylvania, MaM ' I? 0,
rfE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA
who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any fltfp or vessel .a,
go; or other property, belonging t0 citizens th "
United States, refid.ng within this dift riA , by J
0f forcign nstions ' the
firft day of OAober, i 79i , are particularly reouef'
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collar
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon * m „"
he convenient ; fpecifying-uhe name of the vessel
the captain's name, the number of tons, the> efti*
mated value of the Vessel, if condemned, the eft I
mated value of her cargo, or otherprop-rtv whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with luch obfervacion, as
may be thought necessary upon the circumduct,
of each cafe, in order that statement, thereof mav
be tr mfm-.tted to the Secretary of thcTreafurv
whejs required to lay the fame before the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United Stitel
march 7. * I
- =-s VOt
FOR SALE; - + -
bv THE subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, '
John Green, commander,from Beneal '
Qwfyting of ' ■
Baftas, of various qualities and prices
Coflaes Punjum Clotfis '
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Hnmhums Charconna Dorca
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmola
Mamoodys Checks
Mahawgonges Patna HkFs.
Ginghams Mulmul d«.
Guzzcnas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Sjflerfoy
Piniafcoea Choppa RomaU
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals PerrunS of various c,
Meek Pulicat.
soo tons SUGAR
96,000 lb. PF.PPEK.
Writings fcf Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at
ftore the north weft comer
Market and Fourth-ftrteu.
Also—A few Bales of Ma draft Hkfs. of
gant patterns and befl colours.
February. ?, dtf
*
From on board the Snow Maria, from Ci
hagen,
A Few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
pieces Ravens Duck
4yo pieces Russia Sheeting
200 bolts Russia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For SaU by
JOSEPH ANTHONY y C
- > IVbo have on Handy
ift and 2d proof Bourdeaux Braody
4th proof Spanilh ditto
New-England Rum
London Particular") ~ , . . .
anc j ( Madeira Wine in
London Market 5 and qU " Uf Cis
Old Claret in Cases
24 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Bsll Bcfton Beef in barrels
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in dot
A fntall invoice of Rhode-lflandCbeefc
Spermaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. i, st, 3, Boston Sail Duck
Russia Cordage, and
" ~ Anni- I —Dutrb Hollow Glass Wi
March I. ~ A*
" FOR SALE,
The House in Chefnut-ftn •
NEXT door but one to the corner of Fifth
occupied by the fubferiber. its eligible £
is well known—The rooms are spacious aril
venient, and finifhed in ahandfome ilile
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, w
Ice House and rain water Cidern, and the
Pump of good water near the kitchen doo
For terms apply to
GARRETT COTTRING
march 2.
THE term of Co-partnership between thefuk
fcribers, trading under tNe firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and 00. expiresthi6 day, and by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame Will be fettled by John MiHer,
Jun. to whom all those indebted,to thepartnerlhip,
are earnestly recjuefted to make payaient to, witk
-1 out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER,
February 19
; LANDING,
; From on board the Ship Sai.ly, from
t Calcutta,
AND ro* SAL E BY THE SU*SC*lll*|
i 1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
' 3® bales low priced piece Goods.
J \ ' John Miller, Jun.
1 march 3 $
- FOR SALE, »r
John Miller, jinsr.
No. 8, Chefnut-flreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrahs Mameodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda Coflaes
' Ouzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchic.s
Amongfl them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
Britifli Dry Goods,
ALSO,
' Forty ptanchcont of high proof Rwm.
February 19
Alex. J. Miller Is? James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller S3 5 Co.
. TNFORM their friendsiu town and country, that
J. thtyhave opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Fr«nt Street, Philadelphia; wher«
they now have, and intend keeping a general "-
ftutment of India, German, Irijb, French and Brt^
- iijb Mannfafiuresfor sale, on advantageous terms
for calh or a Ihort creait. ,
February 19 7*
ROSS i5 s SIMSON,
S HAVE FOR SALE*
"j A few bales Baftas, Coflas, an<i
a <juantit,y of Bengal COTTON
e Bengal SUGAR,, iu tags and boxes
- Jamaica,
r St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal 3
300 casks RICE, and
A parcel of ihip building RED CEDAR.
u oa. 27. ■•>■■■ '
Hyi'on and Young Hyson Tea.
A few ebeOs of eicellent qualify, for sale, tw
ncr of Second ind Pine flreecs. Dsc *6—eoti