IHttttetl ™ Philadelphia Daily Adver'tiUfi
fruMfiF-t 1 959-3
C? The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers refining in the city cf Phi/adel
■phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and
and unless fom&perfon in this city will
become answerable for the subscrip
tion, it mutt be paid Six Months in
advance. r
1 • ' J., I—f—l~ 1 ■ i i —.
For Sale,
♦ TT£-w THt SH,P ir
PACKET, ir
Hinwaa Cowpuktuwait. Mater, - 1
"ijo'r rH?N about 1,500 barrels, a go~. J strong
Ship—ha«eJC«llcntacwnimodation».forpafKngers,
ma v be Cent to sea w.rh final! cxpencc. SSe is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf, for further particular en-
quire of .
Isaac Harvey, jun, or °
Smith & Ridgway. c
xovembcr 16 $ ,Jt <
f-T Said ftlip, if not fold on, or liefore the ,;th
of Dre.mber.intl. will-on that day. in the evening,
v e ,-ff L Tcd lor sale by public asdion, at the mer
ehants's codec hnufe. , ,
Smith & Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
dec. 3.
___ l
Jamaica Rum.
THE CARGO, \
Of the ftlip CHARLES, Captain Salter,
From the North fide oi Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof ,
JAMAICA RUM, \
Now Landing a: South #rest Wharf.
PETER BLIGHT.
THE SHIP
CHARLES,
Captain Salter,
Coppered, mount twelve 6 pounders and thir'y-
Bve men—returns Immediately to Jamaica, for
Passage apply as above.
dec i] d ra I
for FREIGHT or CHARTER, ,
to any part of EUROPEy
JT3wTI Swedish Snow
gjSjsi MARIA,
ySpLr.'vjgj Hahs Olof Kock, commander.
A remarkably good vessel, about i»o tons bur
then. A freight to Cadiz, or any part of ihe
Mediterranean would be preferred. Enquire of the
r .-: n _L- 1 i -
. dec 17 ___
For Sale.
T*HE Subsckmi*. intending to decline the
X DRUG BUSINESS, ofFtrs for Sale, the
whole 8«o& of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &
The (hop is elegant, (Jommodious, and fuffici
ently known for the extcnfive business c one in the
wholcfale and Tetail line ; the ttuarion equal to
any in the city, being at the col ner of Walnut and
Seoond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bell suit the purtfiafer.
Thu terms may bekno'v" l . by applying to
JAMES MOORE, ion.
Who has For
lor the rive.- trade—
The Peggy, about jotonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good oTder.
The Sally, about 50 tons, fails
w*U, and ia complete order for the lumber business
£s* All persons indebted to the late firm e'l
GclMvait V Baldwin, IV. B Goldtbtatit, Oolj
thwait W Moore, or the fubfrriHer, are earnestly
requested te make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 3 §
BOSTON BEEF,
400 Barrels in Shipping Order.
TOR SALE BY
JOHN &KTRIN,
No. 96, Aorth FrontJireet.
Who wants to Charter,
A COOD srouT ESSFL >
St* Of about 300 Tons burthen.
ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipe* of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov a 1 W4t
FOR WILMINGTON,
N.'o rth-Carolina,
I -,x THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
WlLLtake in freight on very mo
derate terms, and fail about the
■a?thinfta*t. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's wharf, or
Willings ssf Francis,
Pe*n Street,
novemher t6
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper!ff Men's Mercer
No. "],rfautb ThirdJtriit,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the last arrival from Europe, a Urge alTort
ment of the fafhionable Goods in his lirni,
And hat- conjlantly for fate a general ajfort
ment of
Firfl rate London fuperfine Broad
Cloths
CaSinere*
Vest Pattern* of all kinds
And every other article in (he gentleman's line
fcy wholesale and retail.
decembcr 10 dtf
By John Ward Fen no, N°- i 19 Chejnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA:
Ship Broker's Office, f
And CommiJJion Store,
No. 1.9, South FEOK'T Stifkt,
Next dor to she Culloia House.
r T' I HE Subscriber, encouraged oy the advice of
X hn friend*, offers hit fervtce to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing
ing thereto—aftiit matters of vtfirls and others
in entering and clearing at the Cwftom-Houfe, s
procuring and lhipping freight, fettling Inl'ur- t
ante ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and a
have on hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile 'natters. >■
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of hufinefs he hopes to be ufe
fui to thole who please to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERr.
novtmber to §
For sale by the fubferiber,
At Portsmouth (n.h.)
Jj£-* THE HULL
llliils NEW SHIP,
"80 feet keel, 4? t-i beam, I* feet hold, 5, jo
between decks ; about 130 tons ; with mafh.lpars
an'l all the carpenter's and smith's work corn
pleted ; built of go«d found seasoned timber and
plaqk ; launched in November, 1796, and has been
well taken care of fioce that time.—Further par
ticulars may be known by applying to Meffr».
Wharton & Lewis, Philadelphia, or to
THOMAS THOMPSON,
december »i 3aw.tf.
FOR BREMEN,
' THE brig
SPECULA! lON,
Arend Wi«tino,MAST»»,
NOW laying at Henry P'att's wharf, rhe firlt
belov/ Race lirett—ihe is a Bremen bottom ; two
hun'lre 1 . an»: twenfy tons burthen ; will fail wrtjj
al' poOlile difjjatch—For freight or paftage apply
PRATT y KINTZING,
no. 95, north IVater-Jlreet.
Who have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
VIZ.
Trcklenburghs Patrerborties
— —r-fSramr® B ——SiSpfe—— —™
Brown rolls Slippers
Coffee bags Cami^ricks
Pl.itillas * Twine
Brittmia* G..U tumblws
Eftopailles Por wine
Creas a h Morlaix Window glass
B elelield liner. BnmfttinCi
Dorol'a*
december 13 th.fa-rot.3w
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE AHMED SHIP MOLLY,
(T^iii£"«a Burthen 340 Tons;
I flout well found vessel. She iinow
ready to receive her Cargo, and will
Threc-fourrhs ef her Loading being already pro
vided—for Freight for the remainder, or Passage,
apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
dec. 13. tuth&s tf.
Nicklin & Griffith,
HAFB FOR SALE, /
; Sail Cloth by the bale or piece,
(No. 1 & 8)
I One bale of seaming.twine
Copper in sheets, from 14 by 48 to 48 by 60
r inches
Two tubs raised copper still bottoms
Queens' ware, affortcd in crates
London porter in bottles, contained in cases
Empty port wine bottles
Veliow ochre in cafics
Cochineal in feron*
ludigo in do. & calks
35 cafe j and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dimi
ties, muflinets and pullicat hanckerchiefs, in
small afforred packages, calculated for the
Weil India market
ra trunks printedcallicces
4 baips caiTimeres, alTorted
I do. coarf- woolens
Oid Madeira wine
Shea'hirg paper
Cnglilh nails in casks, alTorted,
The Brig
AMAZON,
FOR SALE OR CHARTER." (
Deceicbqr >9. m w.Afa.tf
DRIED PKACHES,
111 barrels
Demrjohm
Claret ~t
x Porter, and > bsttles.
it Port Wine J
And Corks in Biles— For sale by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
Dec. 20 eo6t
Book-Keeping.
Wants a Place,
IN AN ELIGIBLE
ACCOMPTING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
(. \ PERSON that Writes well, is a Ready Reek
' oner, a practical Book Keeper, and can be
, well recommended, » line, (or personal applica
n tion) directed t» M. M, No. 71, North Seventh
ftreet.Vill be duly attended to.-
N. B Books rtol'td, aniinew Accomrtsopen
ed, Partaerlbip Accomptsadjuft«d, orany bufinef!
le i n the Eook Keepirg liac, doue at the abovs pl»ce
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17 'S
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER '798.
FOR SALE
By the Sttbfcribers, in
ON V£ K Y LOWTkR.MS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUrr.RIOK ftU A LI TV,
Either by the finale bpz of i4tbs. or by the quin- A
tity.
Wtilings & Francis. Oj
noy 24
removal: w
Sv
Geohgr Dobson, J;
INFORMS his friends and the Public in general A
that he has removed from No. a;, South Third
btreet, to No 92, South fide of Market-ltreet, near
the corner of Third Street, snd is sow opening
a very estenfive afTortsnent i.f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE /-RESENTSEASON,
WHICH HE HAS J WSJ RECEIVED,
Par the Ihips William L J cmi, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeuk and Thomas
from Liverpool, a»d will b* I old low for calh,
or approved notes at a (hort date, viz,
London 7.4 Superfine Cloths and
Cafhnieres, fafhionable c(Hours
Yorkftiire 7 4 do. and do. b
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfty beav-r, for Spencers
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets av.d velvetttens
Velverets and thickfetts
7, 3, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and.linih checks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7 4 bed bunts
London chintz and chiatz furnitifre#
Fuir.iture cot.ons
Do. dimities '
Purple and chintz fbawls
Silk do. a
Camels kair do.
Silk, cotton, and worlted hole
India and British muslins of every delcription
Black and white c-rape /
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats afTorted in small cvf<&
Umbrellas
Pwling-> ar.d fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribhanr!
Silk Modes
Supe.line Foeo h cafpbrick
Cambrick muslins
Do threads
Pulieatand vtadras Kantfkercbiefs, J
And an elegant ajfortmznt ef e
Braflels and Wilton Carpeting.
ncYrrr.fcor ij
r. taylor" {
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET, t
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public that i
he continues to t«ach Ladias ths Piano 1
4 fr'UWf Sf""' 1 ' tntSnT f
IHIRTT DOLLARS,; '
WILL be paid for apprehending and lodg- •
ing in any goal in the United States, the 1
following deserters from tke Delaware Sloop of I
War, ■viz. -
Thomas Jones, fiaman, formerly resided in
Meade Alley, Soulhwaik, light hair, frefli com
plexion and blue eyes, about five-feet'nine inch
es high.
Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about five '
feet three inches high, light hair, gtpy eyes and '
swarthy, about ia years of age. also,
Richard Culven, ordinary seaman. about five
' feet fix niches high, aged twenty-three yearr,
light hair, Mue eyes and fwartby Ctilven and
Prowr/are both natives of Philadelphia and art
fopp&fsd to hs concealed by fbme of their ac
' quaintance in ihiscity.
STEPHEN DECATUR,
Commander of the Delaware
Sloop of War.
>l<r« 17 i(&t
The Subscribers have for sale,
Malaga Wine, in quarter calks
Red Port ditto, in Pipes, Hhds and quarter calks
Old Madeira ditto, fit lor immediate i#lc
French Brandy
5 Spanilh ditto, (not colored)
Medoc Claret, in Cases
Fir-i fort Isinglass
1 new Cable, 9 indies
* I ditto I a inches
I new Hawser, 7 inches.
Philips, Cramond Co.
dec 11 3t
NOTICE.
a ALL Persons indebted to tht Estate of doc
e -ta. tor Hugh Hodg«, deceased, are requeued
to make immediate payment —and those having
demands againf) the Estate arc dehred to authen
ticate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, admimflratrix.
SAMUEL HODGBEN, adminifirator.
nov »o $
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; mad« aj the Trea.
fury eft le Uoited States, for the renewal of
the fallowing certificates of Funded Debt, Hand
ing in the Dame of Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea,
- London, thefaid C*rtifirates havir _ Seen forward
ed by the filip Elliee, Hatvey, I:"® London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuypofiyi
to be lo?.
No-11437, 6 Per Ceat- Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1796, far Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-Votk,
18th April !79<5,«f0r doHars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
November 18 d6w
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to the last will >nd testament of
Micbail C'atts,deceafed, a finable
Plantation & Tradt of Land,
containing one hundreu a: <1 seventy three acres,
the Teflator's late refideiKe, fitaated in North
dufquehanna Huadre.', Ceocil county, Maryland,
about three mile- from the tide-water of Sufque
hanna.and at a convjnimt diftancc from fevtral
k- plaess «l worship of Friends ai d Preibytereans.
be On the premifcs are a Tan-yard and eonvenien
:a- ce? belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dwelling-
Is- houfd, itable, orchard and other im; rovtmen:<,
with norij acres of good watered mead w, and
n- a fufficient proportion of valuable timber,
ess For terms apply to the fatferiber, in Waft-Not
ce, tingham, about 3 miles from the premises.
THOMAS WARING, Executor
nth ma. lull, 1798 j
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Wjliist Street wliarf,
Fouith proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimflune. _
Anafiortment of valuable DRUGS,
CON3t6TIMG OF
Opiam, Aloes, Cantharide®, Camphire, Senna,
Urcmor Tartar, &c, &c. \
EfiVnce* of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing pap^r
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olivea, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
Satins
Crapes
UmHrelias
Renaaiaiag on Hani,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qntlity.
JAMES YARD. A
November 3 $
Bond 6c 13rook.s,
Corner of Market and Sixth stk&RTS| -
HAVE RhCEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARGE AND GE N V RA I. ASSORMENT OT
dry goods,
Which they are now operiirg for sale at the mofl
reduced privet) lor caSh or the usual ex'etiit.
nov 17 $
Old Madeira Wine.
21 pi pea of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE,
11 strong iron bound Hambr©' calks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. jo. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at South Jireet wharf, ,
FOR SALE BY
PETES. BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
W«0 ALSO fFfERS fO* SALE, (
BRANDY, ill and 4th prool k
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c. 11
Nov. I." dtf ii
NOTICE,, " *
PURSUANT to a Refdlve of the Board of
Truftee»of Wafbington Academy, inSSo- e
eflet county, Maryland, aathorifing Wiiliam t
Polk, efqr. majors Samuel Wilson, and j
William Jones, Members of said Board, to 1
procure a principal tearhcr for said Academy.—
NOTICE ia hercDy given, that a gentleman quali
fiad to teach the Greek and Latin Language*, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and ftKh other
braachesof Literature as it is uftosnary to reach
in such Schools, will meet wiih bberal encourage- (
ment and it is presumed will be well aacommodat- (
e.d in taking charge of this Ac* J emy. The build- '
»m . lon ft fillt y '
Students. _l
Proposals may be addreflTed to JoTmTFeonis, No.
16 r Arch-street, or William Winder, accountant
in the Navy department, Walnut street, Philadel
phia t or to either of the three gentlemen above
mentioned, near Princess Anne, Maryland.
Jet 17 5
"~" w A NT E D.
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
ill a refpedtable private family, whfcre
there are no children. Enquire at tbii office,
dec 4 d'm
' ■' v ' ———* -■
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Fritmets and
the Pujilic irt general that he carries on his
befin'ifs at nearly op
posite th< Mcrch'inu Cdft'ec house *h»re gen
tlemen maybe Supplied i>4 the-iveateff and best
manner —he alTures ;hofe who m*y please to fa- ■
vor h'«n wilhilitir commands tbat no attention
or exertion on his fide (ball be wanting to render
him wonhy of the ir encouragtmrnt
N. B. Orders received will be punfluilly at
tended to.
November 5 J
WOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
#>e estate of tiie late Willi\m Clifton,
deceased, apd who havij net already produced their
their accounts, arc requeftwd to fend them to the
fttbfcriber at no 171, north second Oreet.
ELIZABETH TUCJUR, Adm'x
Philadelphia, nov. 19, 1798 m&thaw
... it.. . ... ... ... * 1 r
JOHN SHIELDS,
- B K O K E JR,
, Embraces this opportunity to present his thanks
to his fetloiv-citizens for their pad favors
and acquaints them that he is return/ d from
Chefnut-HiU, to his former rejidence, tlx
Hoyfe A«. *2 Chefout ieticeen Front
and Serond-fireet,
WHKR E he holds bimfelf ready to execute
their commandi in ev»ry branch of his
profefliop, truftinp that from a r'efidence in this
city of years he has it in bis power to render
' them elllntial ferviee, afltiring ihem that his
commission shall be 19 low as any in Town.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Veflels, Certificates
r of every description and Bills of Exchange,
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the (h'ortefl no
tice, by the public's humble servant,
John Shields.
1, C 5" Good negotiable Notes discounted
at a low premium.
noveiplier 7 3awtf
- FO R SAL E,
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of
A Land, at Rock-Ran. on the Head of the
Tide water of Sufquehannah, in Harford county,
Maryland, wkerecn if. funk feventy-five Vats, a
, s Sto- e Mill atvd Tan Houfc, with conveniences »f
[h ' Watsr and oiher naceflaries for an exterfive Yard,
j a Dwelling-Hojfe. Kitche® and divers other ufeful
e ' builifing* is eraflrd thureon. some of the land, in
a j lots well improved, a good Herrings ifhery on the
shore. Theimp ovng . own of Havre de Grace
n _ is about fix miles diflant and veflels spmirg dewn
the River, pass cloffe by the premises. A cqnve
, ntent Ctunion to get Bark, a (lock of which with
I( .' the utenbls for Tann.np-, and ail the Htoes in the
I Vats maybe had with theYsrd. For terms apply
tojohn Wilson near Harford Town, or the Sub
scriber on the premises.
ISAAC WILSON,
I nth m»- 14th iaw3w
The owners of the (hip New-Jersey fron
Cantwn expt A in a few days part of the
Cargo of that vessel in town,
CONSIS7"JUG or
A general allortmcnt of Silks & Sattiar,
Nankeen#, White and Vtllow,
Cafiia
China Ware aflorted
Bohea
SouchOTg rs AS,
Hyton Skin I excellent quality, and
Hyson, aid 0 "
Imperial •
For terms «1 sale—apply at the Stores of
Nicklin tsf Griffith,
jfrciibald M'Call,
Win. Read & Co.
George Plum/led,
dec iG $
For Sale,
At the late dwelling house of Henkt Hi Li,
eiquire,
On Wednelday morning,
fzd January,)
At 10 o'clock —a quantity of elegant and va
luable
Household Furniture,
Confiding :if
I.argeand fmill Iwolnig-glaffe*
Carpets and cjrpe-*injf
Chair*, fuyha* and iailf«, of superior trork
mtftfhip and to the newest tlile
Qerondoios, lutires
A Urge afftttmejit of plate & plated ware
a iuimtWf of valuable piiatibg*
Beds atkj bedding
China an<i glass ware
Stationary, marble flats, and a variety ef other
artirhi
FOOTMAN & Co.
December 16 t3djy '
WILL BE SOLD,
At Pullk Vendue, on the 41b day »f January
next, in th* evening,
Two trafts or pieces of Land
Situate in the Hate of Tennefee, one o( them
lyiflg and being in the county of Sum
ner, cii the Head-waters of Hinns crerk, contain
ing one thousand seven hundred and fourteen
acre*, and the other situate in Hawkins coucty, in
the fame flat*, containing fiv thouknJ acres.
Conditions of sale will be ca<h,to !>e paid on the
■ execution of the died. 1010. niatior, relative t»
1 . the titles, Biay be had 0:: spoliation to Joshua B.
' Bond, no —, corner of High and Sixth ftr«et»,
' Philadelphia.
Shannon Es? Fclk, auction frrs.
December 26 d"4 y
r 0- All persons iudebted to the ERate
H of Joseph Anthony, fen. de eafeu, are te
qutfted t» make imrnedate payment: And all
. those wlio|have any demands agalnftfaid eflate,
y are dtCied in_prminc* item L-gilly attested to
_ for 'citlnaeot.
I. ffEWES, 7
t JOHN MORTON, "> J:*tutors.
JOSEPH ANTHONY, }
e Deci ml er 26. . dtf
lo be Let, for one or more yeart
PEar, near Third-stfeet
J. A n£w Brick Coach- House,
Will coatair. two carri?g. s an* a cu-x with a
complete t Tab i.t • r tr.r *orfr' pply to
PETER -BLIGHT
Dock H eet.
December 26 dio'
Malaga Wine,
1- In quarter alks—for sale by
£ Philips, Cramend (s* Co.
" dec -6
n Notice is hereby Given,
:r That apph«rtion wijl be made at tlae
Bank of the United Slate* for the renewal o»
the following ceritf cite* of Bank ftotk, Handing
in the name ol Hodgfon Atkicion of London,
_ .which wtre loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
£ persons «)n«erted are defiredto take notice.
No. 2424, issued in lieu of No. 1891,
ir 1892, 5662 and 14640, for 4 fharei.
x No. 3020, iflued in lieu ot 11055, *"4
U°J7» 3 Glares— .7 (hares.
THOMAS M-EUEN sa" Co.
- n<,v - • dtm
iinglilh wrought Nails.
{j Imported in the Jhips Molly and Diana, from
, LI V ER POOL,
400 Casks of NaiU,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, lod, n4, ar.d
aod, flat points suitable for the southern
market 6d, Bd, iod» lad, and aod, fine driwn
tc fharpa aJfo «, 3, 4, and 6
lis tucks—feupptr nails—fheathifig naifs,
lis ro*. SAtE BY,
e . r Robert Denifon, junr.
"* 127 Marltet-ftreet.
e* For Sale,at the Stores of the Suh
'e> fcribers, on Walnut ttreet Wharf,
"■ 195 caflts of nail* afloried
°* to bales of fail canvass, from No. Ito 8
j3 tasks yellow ochre
i j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 dcz. eaojt
ed London particular ) , . ....
India market j Madeira Win**
Teneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
01-J Port do. in lilids.
Empty Claret bottles
of 6 cafe*of Oinghanis, Dimkie*, MuflinetJ
he . atfortcd ,fnr the Wefl-India market
ty, 4, 10, and 9 inch cab!esand 10 cniisol cordajre
, a Writing fiatcs, ink (lands aad prelfe*
•f »o purcheons rum
rd, X bale seaming
ful 160 bundle* Qieatt ing paper
Nuklm iff Griffith.
ce april? tuth&f.tf
Insurance Company of the state of PcnnjjJ.
irh ICnia±
the STOe.KHOLD>RS ? r- hereby cotified
pl y tha' ao election tt.r thirtetn Oire&ors to serve for
ib ouc f CJr ' w '" hi Iwld at the Company'* OfHcc
on Monday the fourteenth day of January next at
Eleven C'dock. "
JAMES S. COX,
d «- '7. dtl 4 .J
"4awjw
.. •.* **#*
' ..- • \ *Delaware & Schuylkill Canal.
Stockholder* „re hereby n«tifi< d, that the
Election for andManag rj, for tre
: ifuing year, will be held at the Company's O!H C ..
on the fir(t lec.on !d»y in January n»it, at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna bf Schuylkill Cant,l.
THE Stockholders are hereby notifie-l, thut the
for Prcfidjnt and Managers, for the enfu
ingyear; will be held at the Co-npapj's Office, on
the flrft lecondray in January Beit at ten o'alock
. M. .
GFO WORRALL, fec'y.
to Delaware & Schuyiltill Canal Combat y.
J™. '9 dte_
Bank of Pennfylvanil,
DBCEii.bR 2-jib, 1798.
AJOTICE is hereby given to the Steckholders of
J.X the lijrk of that an Election
of N mctcCn DfREC f"ORS, to irrve for ohc year,
tvill be held at the Bank, on Monday the fourth of
, February r. ext. at je o'clock.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier.
lixtraa from the fcDtnih Section of the M of
Incorporation.
" Article id. Not more than fourteen of the
Directors eledied by the tStockholders.anda&ually
in offic-, exciufive of the Frcfident, (hall be eligible
for the nei; fuc.eeding year ; but the Director
who shall be Pfe'idem at the time of an eleaion,
may always he re-ele&ed."
df 4F
Ihiladelpbia Population Company.
THE fh are-holders are hereby 1
notified, that an eievllion fr T F resident, Managers
and other officers for the.eiifuing year, will he
held at the Company'* u ffi ce , no. ji, north Fourth '
llreet, on Wednesday the oth of January next, at
it o clock.
Sol. Maracbe, Sec'ry. ■,
dfc - 2 7- dtm '
Ihe Subscribers, <
Have received by the Clothier from Liverpool !
A CONiJBKMfcfJT OF Te\ CASIS OF f
Well Assorted Buttons,
About jc! fter!in ? each C>fc, which they will 1
dupe*: ot per package, on liberal terms. '
Mcdford Willis. I
No. 78, Norh Front near ArcK street. "
WANTED, S
ABOUT fifty Cafki of , «
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
Apply as above.
dec i» { gi
To be bold, fv
The time of a stout healthy Negro Lid, aged re
about 17 year?, and bound to i'erve until 21 • an
lie is honest, understands th« usual business of a
family, and has bee* accufiomed to wait on
tabic—Apply to
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
. . -No. 41, Arch street. m '
dacernher 19 at
FLOUR, FOR S ALE. P '
DELIVERABLE at N ew . C afll e o r Port ""
Penn, by
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH & SON ]oi
-j fc *9 d 4 w on
N O T I C E. no
THE Public ars cautioned not to trull any of
the people belonging to the Swedish Snow Maria,
on my ace»uut. $
Hans Olof Koch, master. On
dec ig 5
,14 Pipes Madeira Wine, '
Foa SALE BY "
Crooke Stevensorty %
No 4, South Water-street. ©
dec 11 §
Wheat, Ginfang, &rc. an^
, . , „ eer s
4000 bushels of white Wheat, of excellent whii
< 3 ual ' t y lies;
Is Calks of Ginfang
30 Ptyes of Madeira Wine, three years old j
100 Barrels of Prime '
Pork in ba!f bt Is. and barrels U
For Sale by Pent
JOHN SKYRIN, M
No. 96, North Front-street. „
dec 26 3awiw
—— a Cour
Hats & Hosiery.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALLj noon
AT HIS STORE,
«, No. 134, Market Street,
HAS JUST Ok'ENED, in addiHon to his for* The i
mer flock, a very extensive affartment of and ci
Men's, Women's, and C'ljil.iren's Hats, and all
kinda of Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the prcfent season „
«o». *5 eotrn Ma
In addition to the above, he has jnft received a
geneial affortmcnt of Fleecy Hefiery, such as £
stocking«, Mght-cap-, travelling ditto, breeches
pirce«, under waiflcoats, (hirts, &c.
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK WATCH MAKER,, , f .
Cor: er of Front and Market ftrcets, Philadelphia, * m '
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the diff. rent arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makfrs and Silver Smiths Tools, f
files and materials,
consisting or [ dec.
Rowling Mills, Urge and small Bench and Hand ! -
Vices, Tui nbencl-es, Plyers Sliding Tongs, Bra
«es and Bins; Groovi-igtosli, Saws, Scratch br«(h- : *.
e% Blow pipes, Screw and Draw pbtes. large and , "
(null Hammers. Clock tiials, cast brafi Bells, for
ged w«rk a-d pinion*. E nery, Rotten ftoue, Pu- the
mice ftone,\Borax, Spel'er Sorder, Brat's, Steel and A I
Iron wire, facet Bra.V, main springs and glaifes ' t
gold, gilt, and (l>el chains, fcals and keys, &e. See. ,®f 'he
ts"Clocksand Watches carefully repaired J rouso
BOV. 31 ' Mdtf !* mUCI
ut previot
Notice is hereby Given,
'TPH \T applicnion will be made it the Trta- dcc '
Ik fury of tht United States for the renewal
of tAe following certificates of Six per Cents, ) . t .
funded delrt— Handing in the name of Robert ' I '7;
IVilfott of Calcutta in Bengal, Surpron in the | . 9
service of «h« honorable Uoittd Company of 1
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In- ? t -'r' IIJ
dies, whii h weie loft from on board the Swil- !' ot
k)w-Paeket,c4ptKUJd, from Falmouth to New Wlt ' l 1
York. Doll,. Oj. P^P" 1
No 10,444, Reg. office 141k Dee. f°kr
'7*3» one certificate for 1711 ~ fobUrit
No 10,478, Urg office 17th Dec. cording
I7<J3> one certificate for jasg r 0 on the I
Mjton V John Perot.
*3* <-«J6w Cbur
_ AN EXTRACT or A LAK
For the Regulation of
nai CHISSNLXWEL i'E HS.
hat the TH VT no P erlotl ' shall follow the- business of
for the Chin;tiey-Sweep»rs, either by themfclvcs
sOOSc" their fervan's, negroes or others wjthfn the city of
at ten f iladeiphia, the dillriil of tiouthwark, or the ,
township of the Northern Liberties, without hav
ing firft made application to the officer herein after
1 dire&ed to b* appointed, and having registered or
canfedto be regiitered his or their names, and the
°-t the names of t*'eir servants, negroes, or others,' as
e enfu- aforefiiid, with a number affixed to each and every
ice, on such name in a book by the afortfaid officer to be
0 alock kept for the purpose, and without procuring and
receiving front the said officer a certificate of every
such regitlry, containing the number and name of
•nfatj. every jerfon (o entered, under the penalty of ten
dte fhiliings fgr every day he (hall foliow by himfelf or
cause to be followed by his fervmts, negroes, or
others, the said business which said certificates the
08; k"' °'® cer ■' hereby enjoined and required tomake
deiof OUt unc * er s hand. an <l to .Icliver to the person or
ievftion P'f'ons who Qiall apply tor the fumet; and for every
e year rrgiltry and certificate he shall rective the sum
jrth of even ""'lings and fix pence and no moic.
That rv.ry person following the business afore
jj er _ within the said city, diftriS, and liberties, lha;l
(if h« follows the employment himfelf) wear er I
. . (*f he employs his servants, negroes or others)
°J cause to be worn on the front of their caps in lull
view, without concealment, the faire numbers ,
of the ard figures refpe&ively, as shall be lo aforefaid
dually entered in the said book, and cont ined in his or '
ligible their rrt'peclive certificates, and none other, in
large figures, not less than two inches in length to 1
?iflion, be made el llrong durable tin or copper; and the I
perlons following tbe said business by themselves, <
4 F or their servants, negroes, others, &c. not having }
the said numbet fixe -I on his or thfir c*ps aecord
ny. ing as the law direds; ©r whea fixed, shall wil
fully deface or couceal the fame, or lball negled
'ebv 10 r^rni Ti( ~ lb ' ! -, a " for each and every such
• offence, forfeit and pay the sum often fhiliings for
™\\V rach andcv,ry diy that hc: 01 lhe y l,l4ll fo,low the
'Hi he said employment, not wtai ing, or off it dug to
ourth weir the said number as aforefaid. f
xt ' at Thit if »ny person or persons undertaking the r
occupation aforefaid, shall not, within 48 hours,
y. atier application to him or them made by any of C
m the Inhabitants of the said city, dillria, or North- D
ern Libel lies, fwe»p or caute to ()« swept, such c
chim.-ey or ehimnies as he er they ihall be requir- t ]
td to . sweep, every such person or persons so of- „
P 'ending ffijli forfeit and pay the sum of twenty •,
fhiliings. / ' li
1 hat if the chimney of any perfen or persons t
1 wifl w 'thin the fai J city, diftriA, of liberties, shall ai
ukff fire and blaze out of the top, the fame cot aj
u having been swept within thcfpace of one calendar
month, mxt batore the time of taking such fire, £
every such person or persons (hall forfeit and lay 1
the sum of 40 (hillings—and if any chimney (hall
take fire rid blaze out at the top ; the fame hav- so
uig bae;i swept within one calendar month from
the time of taking fueh fir., the person who swept rr
the fame either by hitnfel?, his servants, or ae- .
n forfeit and pay the tjim of 43 fhiliings. 1,1
C? A book for tthe registering of (fhimney-
sweepers 11 now kept by John Hainis, at di- mi
?«(i rei } e ° ?y law , at the corner of Cherry Alley
tI . and Fifth fireet. '
{ i december 28
on
An adjourned meeting of the A- cia
merican Phildiophjcai Socaty, w,U be held pri
L p t AT ir » on Fr,da y n '-xt, at 6 o'clock, tai"
December 26. tKkf ■
A meeting of the American Phi- bl^
lofophical Society, w.ll be held at their Hall "
on Friday the 4 th day of January next; be- e?
tween J»oors nf
- noon, for tHe axmual election nf
of ADAM SEYBERT, Sec^tary.
r n ,
On Saturday next, the 29th instant, tat 7 a " d
o clock 10 the evening, at the Mer
chants Coffee House will be fold for a 2
approved l'ndorfed note at three month*,
SRTGANTINM alwi
WITH her appurtenances as she came from Sea, dete
"' n X tor L° WhKh be seen 3t the auflion- v ,- n y
eers, (hei» i6°ton» register measurement. built of n.
r D mthe "t New-jersey, ard now ? 8U
hes at Mr. Eyres wharf in Kenfinjrton. frlzt
FOOTMAN & Ce. auSisneers. "ity
' deC 14 j«lo
Unitid Statis, 1 prot
Pennsylvania Diflriif. J m- men i
OTICE is hereby gi ven that in purfiiance of a war
p° me from the Honorable « xte ,
. ofthe Diftridf ;
. Court of the United States in and for the Penn- ,
? k m u D r lftr 'r a ' Wi " be eX P of<:d to public sale P° Lt
' u °! J am «» A(h, esq. m Third street, peaci
the * 9 th instant, at 11 o'clock at' mere
2 Hog/heads and
2 Barrels of Spirits. influt
• The fame having been libelled against, profecated licy-t
and condamned as forfeited in the said Court. treati
WILLIAM NICHOLS, L«j
Marffials Office, Dec. 15th, i 7O B. Marftil ' C , omn
they
On THURSD ir. the 3 d Jaunary, f
at 6 o clock in the evening, sI
At Benson & Yorkf.'s Auftion-Room,
No. 39, South FroHt-ftrect con fit
WILL BE SOLD, *' rom
A small, but well-chosen and feleft Library of condu
Medical Books, & c .
together with sundry Surgical
The property of the late DoSor Francis B Say're ' 8 tOQ
BENSON &YORKE 100 00
_ dec - 7 " di. Poffefl
I" "will be sold! —- difej
U° *'r° ck k° n Saturda y the 29th inft. ,he co
by puplic auftion, upon the lot adjoining ,nto a
the f ity tavern, in Second street, V our
1 A do U o™, b & °i IV "i. dOW Caf?S gcr °j
«f the buildings' latdy 'ITj W
firous of viewing them are remi„G,'t ; t d '' firlnne
Samuel Robitf-n, upon the prenufes ° g ' VC U
previoas to the sale. V ' y tlme I have
CONNELL Y If Co. try bei
dec. Auctioneers. j D S P
— dtfat increa)
notice fuch '
- -ft :
L ,hh^" r '?«d e flate?f P P r
said on Thtir day the „ft da^
With their claims against thr so.M i™ 1
properly aathcDticated, at which time'
••onable division of the a(Tet& In >K u P 1^0 ? 01 "" j -
fobferiher will be made amon' t l; <* th '
coidirg to law ; and those mho do not'an' II "' Gi
on the said day, will bp forever nrerlnrf i P r Pe,r O EPa
their e!i,m» on the said estate. 0m S witl
REBECCA JOHNSTON, Executr'v colt " and
Church Hjll, Dec. aa. ' - CCUtr,X - if require
of Xlje
finefs of -
infeWfs PHILADELPHIA ,
e ciry of [
or the
jut hav- FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 18.
tered or
and the The Trimmer.
licrs, cs canting Trimmer came to mt and said,
*°"J " ' car ,fl y friend you are too rank a Fed ;
in "and " 7 aces ' think how hard tlieir cafe is,
t ever " difappointmenls flretch'd, how long their
nasnVot fares ;
, o j- " Emollients better suit with our condition,"
lfelf or Ketch ( ® ,ci an excellentphyfijeian.
oes or " thirlt for blood ?" net I Sir, as I
aces the breathe
toraake "• hy hanging is a fine dry kind of death,
rfon or "We moderates arefor holding all things even"
r every ou mean like him who hangs twixt earth and
he sum heaven.
c. 1 " Pfliaw no ; the French spill blood enough al
afore- I ready"—•
», Iha.l j Aye, aye; yet you're for holding all things
tar or I steady.
ithcr.j I Now if the weight is all on one fide brother,
n lull You t •immers may to poize it hang on t'other. I
mbers I
rcfaid I These neuters in their middle way of fleering
his or I Are neither black nor white, nor beef n«r her
er, in ring,
gth to Nor Feds nor Jicobinj, nor this nor that,
nd the Nor birds nor beasts, but just 1 kind of bat
[Vlves, Or twilight reptile, true to neither cause,
aving With Federal wings, but Jacos' teeth and
fcnrd- claws.
I Y' l STEADY,
sgleit I
f iuch I m*
js for I
w the I MR. fENNO,
ig to THE following extra £1 of a mefTage to
th t?,e Le B ,flature of Sou tb Carolina from
*urs! CJlar,es P'nckney, Esq. late governor of
ny of J that an< J recently elected one of its fe
orth- oators, is worthy of attention on more ac
fuch J counts than one. It explains the reason why
the le;if]at 11 re of a (late which has given so
renty I man y r " cejlt an d decisive poofs of federal- ;
ifin, should have fer.t to the Senate of the
rfons I United States, a person formerly coofidered j
shall as a thorough-going antifederalift ; and it !
ndar a ® 3rds a kcurity for the conduct of that 1
fir" F ent leman on all questions relative to defen
:lay I vc preparation and French affairs. It al
lhal| I proves the (late of public opinion to the
hav- southward, where no man, if opposed by a 1
v«°oT cl ] ! "' aa( ' r of a "y refpeftability, can be eleft- 1
Je- . wlthout an explicit avowal of correft fen- r
in gs . " m " t on these important points. The t
ncy . MefTage was sent about the fifth of this a
di- month, at the commencement of the session I
Hey __ 1
I extract. . V
I On the French Republic refufing to o
receive our envoys, and to enter into nero-
A- ciations on the just, honorable and amiable c
leld principles of their inftnifliona, you will cer- L
ck, tainly view with approbation the measures re
I which have been taken for proteaisg our h;
- I irr CC r aud P lacin ß U8 in the best pofli- p;
hi- l u P re P arati °" the invasion, ta
[all C u 31 that , tlme " was th « g' neral opini- f u
beJ°W k ? 10 / Part ° f lhe United Ie
zens would never approve of any negociati- th
Jon incompatible with the rights, the honor, pe
- ° f J I of their country ; Jh
7 u . t0 fupP °" thefe ' h great th
;r _ the burthens may be, they will bear them pk
without a murmur. J - r
, Wh,lc howevtr , a determination to main- ou
tain our national charafter unsullied, ought pa.
27; g p ern u th u CoUnCili ° f (he ihe
French Republic officially, and pec
in a proper manner, communicate to them a poi
trN i Upon terms confident to
of fh». ld°f . 3nd honor - there IJ the
w u 'd suppose, be no doubt that we shall tiv<
seize with aviduy pleasure the opportu- bot
mty of evincing to the world, that, while the
twteft °it "* ? a^ r ' ? ad determined to Ity (
P °. 18 "& hts > thc American govern- *h.
ment will always prefer honorable Let to Kb
a war: that separated by an ocean C t'V)
extent from the territories of the old world Th,
-'j* ' ear " eft , Wl(h 'o keep apart from iu to t
e politics: tl at devoted as they are to the for
peaceable purfu.ts of agriculture and com Uhi
' mC .K Ce V • V , W ' ll be 33 Bn wiling to interfere an y
with the rights and concerns of
ons, as determined that none fh.ll g U i de or
influence their own ; that it will fee t heir po c
1 icyto have no too intimate conneftion, by P«>l
treaty of alliance with any power • to re the >
member that our nation, with refpeft to its'
commerce, must depend upon itfelf : that an y
h 'Jr ' ma re gulations as are hon<
best suited ta our fituatior, the l f into
°«r riches and the industry of o» r i ßhabit | com
nnts t that having done so. our policy would I fioa
consist the resolution « ver P to e ced 1
a tV" f3VOr of Grangers. Wth thZ this
condua, there can be no doTibt ofou ea Sv a ™
pre ervmg peace with every nation goveS -er
by the principles of justice. Our cLmerr view
is too lucrative, and our ports and r ~ Ce Tl
too convenient and important tho "l
poffefljng, valuable islands i n tk W 7r" '
«k. >k.. mldiir. fa „ „»' p t 'S »»"
firmnefsin our measures. which „« J m
g.ve true dignity to the col J *
I have no doubt of ,h e Df J e ° f 3 naUon ' *opL
try being long maiuuined :7h at U '
ing preserved, even for a few v u'
increase of its resources and wiU 1
foch, as to render it not S
to foreign attacks, but to make !r - tax > •
tereft of every people to co^t its r 'tal, ■
andl fnendftip, and to place it tre be
most envied feat, of fr«dom Li fr h*' the a '
I in the world : that it ma non "P
my most fmcrre prayer." 15 I house
"==-= I rel of
Genteel Boarding Isf
I odv' landI and 1
S-. J&
Dec. IJ. 0t lb 3J I em
Id& I r.atior
From the Virginia Gazette.
The following Counter Memosialvhis read
on Tuesday last, at Caroline Court-house,
, ivbcre it procured sundry signatures, and
is noiv circulating through the county for
g more. It will ie forwarded as soon as
possible to Richmond, and presented to the
General Assembly.
WHEN attempts are made, whether open
lid, or covert, foreign or doraeftic, which have
i I a tendency to pull down the constitution and
a e is, trample under foot the laws of a free coun
% their t g OC d m en deem it not tofiand
i&n „ forth and refifl them. If a constitution,
net forced upon them by cpmpnlfion, but
r, as I adopted by themfelvcs voluntarily and of their
' va sccsrd, if laws,, not i,mpol'ed by the will
of h tyrant, but enafted by their O .vn repfe
even lentatives fairly and freely ehofen, arc •ot to
li and jj e s acr ed by a people profefling the prin
jj , ( j_ ciples and virtues of republicans, the repub
lican system must soon vanish, like a pleasing
flings Jream, and after passing through all the hor
rors of anarchy and confufion, fbave its de
v, luded votaries doomed ,to the darkness of
:her. eternal despotism.
ing We, freeholders and inhabitants of the
• her- county of Caroline, regretting the cause that 1
brings us, come before this honorable body ;
to enter our p rote it again ft a memorial which ;
we ujiderftand has been presented to you, 1
and n "' i b° ut the signatures, but unckr the lane- j
tion of a iinall part of our fellow-citizen?, f
Y, and which, in our opinions, has the fatal c
tendency above lpoken of. This memorial ;
was prelentedand voted for on the fame day, r
without being previoufiy submitted to tha
, e tQ consideration of the; people. Not one in ten e
rom iad ever s een it) or even Jieard it read, ex- 0
rof C£pt . tlle curi ' Qr >' an d confuted mann ,of f
s fe- rea ~ din £ FF rs amidst th: and bultie of
ac- a Court y ar d- Under foch orcumftances it
iv'hy ? 7as ™F offible to form a right judgment of P
ti it, and upon this ground it was 'i'pecially cb- ,
•ral- j e<aec ! t0 » on a clo ser infpeaion and better
intelligence oi its contents, we are firmly r
■red pCr ! uaded that lome worthy men, who gave '
j their votes in favor it,'would have rejedej it, *
"hat Snd that ve ->' fev; could have been found who C '
f en w °uW have deliberately fee their names to !n'
" it. Yes i representatives ps the people, we '
the" must d ° ° ur count > 7 thc j ustice believe, !i"
that an inftrumeiit so and un- J
■ft 3 nded ln P oint of matter,, l'o fajnaftic in
- " ">' lc ' ar >d so ungrammatical withal, would
Phf n , ot have beetl , fufferc d to eleaps from it, to j f
•hie " reproach of its reputation for mt.-iotifin, I to
and to the ttifcredit of its literary charaaer. ' VC
on - In this event your wisdom and public virtue i WI
would not liave been insulted, your correct ! ry
taste and judgment would not have been dif- i a C
to gulted. j pt
J®* Filled with low infmuafcions indecent j m '
ble calumnies against the government of the 1
er L mted States, the said memorial affects to ' d,c
res reprobate all the defence measures which 1 th '
w have been adopted with refpea to France, j lca
particularly the army eftablifhrnent, the dire i t , an<
m, taxes, the alien and sedition laws. These :ho
we know fuli well, have been ie- I hc
ed lefted, in. 1.. » } K ,by
*a- •■****• ' either, •wrtiTaufe
t| were best calculated to inflame the minds of u 4
the people and to excite discontents. The caiJ
►r, people, however, are now beginning to fee allc
; t rough all tht Parisian arts and artifices fne
at at are praaifed to deceive them. The pec- 4Te
m pie, know that an army (proportioned to ex- tha
igencies) is at all times neceflary to protea S oc
our frontiers from the savage indians and the
it jf at this time, to defend us against
£ I ?°f e fava e e tyrants of France. The '
d people know that taxes are necessary to fu «"
3 a r" y ' the kr,ow that both men
T the CXtent ' are onl y temporary "ied
I " IX ° Ple ) knoW that own repE : trar
both undl they " nfid - voted for "bL
t£ 'Jo t C ° nV '? lOn ° f th^ir "cceffity, bid ,
el tne people lyiow that when the neceiti any
r) jty ceases they will cease fnr »v, , , J
whatever felU b, 1' they know that ordl!
" EI" If n S Upon them m ust, in ted I
t tives when' th" Vy on tbeir reprefenta- after
, The 'people tLlKh™ fht '° a ' ing
to be seduced in Jj " k thir « s a « not ratio
. for to this lenett^ 1011 Snd mfurreaion ' ncXt
" whichwearen. a memorial ' a ßainft Pi
. a ny meaning. if ' thas X ° U
. alk can be intended bv th f T S leaVe to tal C
with Which it concludes."" «
be done? Will the Wha tthen is to er» si
they aft like men A blow, or will
from GodacknowledJ-edh taiß nfthlS der ' ve(l
any pers on be so i il. Y . C0Bl ? ? ( -ould p T
I honorable body y ° Ur HAS
compel the union to »ake ft. / 1 uld
Son ps ,„f llrr , dio;i ; y& the lu PPref Exc
j ever it has been re -d „,1 contempt where
view of the FtQ °" 2 dos « Got,
fhe taxes laid by the
though wifely calculated tofol' 6
and not on the poor, hav h. °? r ' cA ' I
i««»bv, J r j-•»
eral charaaers amongst us c
ago, a great noise was made
na ge tax, upon the pretend A the CAr_ 4 * 4 ;
"neonftitutioLl r? gr u° Und of its
fafed.to pay it . Res ;
courts, and thty were /-« „ , t0 the
tuie to their country
t° this tax, they were nor r °PP ofitio n
People, who, when the v cameT a '° Y
1 't, were forcbly fWk ??. t0 Un derstand
| equity, and highly annro . wifdo " a "d
' will they app rove f IU So too JO
they are told that these also n ' whe n OF ««
tax, are laid upon * t carriage Co
''-I, that the CheK' " 0t 0,1 ca p- ,
are best able to Lea. ir !f Upon those who and a B
the ability 0 f a ll *w, ' • i. n Proportion to j
° r «ft
»nJ plou^h > arms, T
'«i«.ft W ......
zUre , that they are }n ;j fei
and are not f ° f °' VE ysar ' j
they would not have been n^Vr^^ 1 ' that 0N »
thecondua of the ary ' llad not . French;
1 Of bribing traitors U1 f
I hfl again fl their nt
M read in defending our wives but'
-cause, gion and morals, our const- OUr frli
M > and our liberty and a Ws '
p for fcrvatjon of *>r the
eat as and fed.tion ] aws w ,. r ,. ln gVthe a ] ie
l Ute a P»« of the gS sth5 th c onfti !
fence. These were calculate s^em <rfdc;
■r open gam ft the hostile niachmi t0 °P er ate ,
1 hav ® ° f{ P les and incendiaries ißtri^«
Snand the pay of the French direst ° tob€ >»
coun- us again ft the secret, as the 7' '° **»*
3 - -and againlt the open attacks of a an< * nav 7
■utwn, call these measures J,? Cncm >'- To
J, but which fe!f.prefervatio n , th^fcft, ,ollal
t their and nature, has forced us to 'f hw .<* God
n that when the detedfed rl-u pt> lst °fay
rcprc- fin is just about to b» p! un J?" ° f the 3 &f*
• otto it "would be unnatural to if; ' n , tooUr heart*
: prm- the throat and finite W Caitiff by
' c P.ub- The policy and conf,i tut i ona]j "
:ahng have been so clearly and ° y ° fthrft W 3
e hor- moiiftrated by various publiS^'"'^
ti de- percede the nec.effitv of an „ ' anofu
:fs ol detail on our part. ' ar £ um wtati ve
In the aforefaid memnr.M
f the following coarse, crude ard
- that tence. '• Symptoms 0 f a „ aftf 00 ' 0 f ? tt *
body a monarchy, our old foeJ" n fr"
vh.ch a republic, our old friend Ja' V , W . lt!>
>ou, tion of tones, refugees and ™ Cohal ™a
s- r liifts with
«?
'orial lcan revolution is !o be from" l" 1 ""
day, moaa chy." 'Monarchy to
If there be any citizen j ,
1 ten enough to entertain views of a fli
e V; our federal constitution to n,on 3r( -h / L 8
j»° foregoing quotation announce,) l lt ft'u
Loi be pointed out, that the foil, J u "' d
»»!■ ssa?* gfr"" f **>s
£
Sjj fFak out. ,C B^°if C any
j,v wh «ber he be a member of the federal 1
5 t0 I fall) gO'eriimeiit in the union,
w SSLSS' 10 ma!;e - A,ch infi,,uations
eve, tho " t °P"iymem,onin ? names , iniMd
un ly explaining the ground of his accijfatior.s
:in ° U^t t0 be held in deteflation and afe'
)uld a horrei ! Le : a ®a back-biter and a flaaderer, at
to * lcted and envious wretch, whowilW
fin. t0 be confe q«m.al without merits er , dc *
ler. VOUri "R to pud down all those who are so
•tue i ""H 1 lf ' as . a , !" an hav ' n g the ferdi of Have
■;ct i r Y {ow " " lth 'n hijifelf —for none but such
dif- I a one . conld ,nfult fenfc and spirit of the
| pt .°P ,e » by supposing them capable of fob
ent j mittln S' to flavi-ry.
the I r i All xi'oua to avoid odious diftinaions, we
to ■ id not wiflj to take a comparative view of
ich ' . charaflers generally throughout Amer.
ce, | lca j u j'o advocate tie federal admimftration,
eft i and of thos e who oppose it. We appeal,
ei'e j owever > to your honorable body, and to
| the world, whether we are p.ot goaded to it
ley we are novr pro lC ui ( ,g, an d vWiither
of U does not juftify ythe keer.eft and mod
'be caul,,c aniraadverfioiis. We are willimr t0
fee allow that there may 1* found amongst the
:es friends of governmeat, feme suspicious and
c _ «en bad men ; but it mull be conceded
x _ that, in general, tbey are compofedof the
a good and wife, the honest and ioduflrious,
id '' e P at r ri °tic and brave, with our virtHous
ift WASHINGTON at their head#
ie Amongtt those who areoppofedto jro
i . vernmetit, we admit that feme will meanine
h men may bt found ; yet, it cannot be dt
>'» nied ' tha t we may also lind others of a con
tr?7 L Ca ?" But > ourrefpedtfor your hono
)r rable body, and our regard for decorum, for
!■> bld " a t0 r etort as we could, or to make
any further obfervatfciiaon the very extra
lt ordinary memorial, which has bee* prefen
n ted to you : —We only pray, therefore, that
- alter gmng it a patient and refpeftfel hear
• ,n g« you will postpone the farther confide
t ratiou of it, till the third Monday in March
, n«t,
1 Permit us to conclude with a hope, that
s you win adopt the amendments to the fede
-3 ral conftitutioa, which have been lately pro
; posed, for the purpose of excluding foreign.
» ers from the councils of the United States.
!~ 1 1
| J°HN J.
. CLOCK (at WATCHMAKER,
H/tA again opened at his vfual Stand, As. jB,
Seuth Secondjtreet—quhere be has for Sale^
A VARIETY OF
Kxcellent Gold & Silver Watches,
and a rrw
Eight Day Clocks,
W/jicb itjlll be warranted to gii'e fatisfaffion.
An aflortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch ivork done luitu
particular attention as heretofore ■
An Apprentice wanted.
"Ofember n m.r>u&fyj+
IRfSHLINENS,
4-4 and 7-Bth White l.irens welK
affo «d | Enritifd
3-4 Brown ditt» ditto V, to th«
.1-4 Irish Checques suitable for the ( Drawback-
Weft-India Market.
FOR SALE,
On reasonable terms—by the Box or Bale,
By Gamble & Hfimvt/t,
No. 148, Sourh Second-street.
_° f c 19 jtawtt "
' 79 hhds. Santa Cruz Sugar
OF excellent quality, (in Stores of fohn Nuo*,cfq,
and Co.) A quantity of
SAIL CANVASS,
and a Box of Ma«e, for sale, by
STEPHEN KINGSTON,
oec *' teodjt
Thic Day is Published,
ANDFORSALIBY riNHO,liOjCHiiifUT-ti aiir
AN ADDRESS
so the People of Maryland,
ON the progrefs and preft«t state of
nch a KK rt "l6on, with a (kttcb of the infamoul
attempta to degrade the Government of the United
i>tate», and some rcflcilioos on the la'e proceeding
in written the Uit of April in the pre§
lent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen-.
J jure 11Xi>e Csasettt\
-
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER >B.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, December ai.
Six Per Cent. , 6y5
1 hree Per Cent. , c r
Deferred 6 P«r Cent. j .f
United States, j< percent.
Pennfylvania, l 5 ditto
" North America, J0 rf ; tto
Infurao«e comp N. A. (hares 55 ditto
Pcnnfylvaniu, shares, 4,-ditto
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
Oh London, at 30 days 6 0
— at 60 day# 5? r
> at 90 days
Aniltcrdam, 60 days, per guilder, cents
COMMUNICATION.
To MEDICUS.
SIK,
IF yau iiad waited with patience till I had
fiuiflied my /ketch relative to the Origin of
th; Yellow fever, which has occalioned such
mortality and diitASs of late years in this
country, I think you would have Spared your
censure, unless you are actuated by a very
litigious Spirit.
If you had intended I ffiouli have profit
ted by your advice, you would have written
in the language of a gentleman, and hive
mated me with the civility alid politer.- fs
that ought to distinguish a profolionai dia- !
rafter.
If truth and the welfare of your fellow
citizens had been your aim, Would you not'
have been more Correct in your flitements
as well as more mild in your expteffions } '
If tne lociety of young gentlemen who
stile theuilelves the Academy of Medicine,
(and who, having very little or no practice
to attend to, aiTemble frequently together I
for the laudable purpole of converfin<j toee- I
ther 011 the difficulties they meet with from
the " Scoff of Pride, from Envy's frown ana I
Poverty Ls unconquerable bar,") fay, wha
you lay for them, that the Yellow Fever may
be both generated and imported, they are
guilty of a very palpable inconliltency ; for
fa their hit letter addrefled to the Governor
they aflert, that it is not contagious in the' I
W ell- Indies ; and if that is the cafe, how
can it be imported ? Some of them go far- '
ther—they even deny its being contagious
here, in opposition to fads known to evei v
body elie—l'hey alio " deprecate, in the molt
solemn manner, the continuance of a belief
in the supposed importation of the fever, as
it has (accordingto them) led to a total neg
ligence of the proper means of preventing its
return."-—[See their letter.] J
If, as is known to every inhabitant of this J
city that has paid any attention to slij f"' ? L,
cufcn p*' OHI-lii fcLtSiiCi JMdllliei Uy |
fewer, and milder in their Symptoms, after I
paving of the streets became general, and at- !
tsr the dock was arched over, and regulations I
of general clean linef's were eltabli/hed, how I
do thole distinguished physicians., whom you I
fay mature oblervation has convmced. ; that I 1
the YelLow fever is only a higher grade ol I ,
Bilious fever, (and which the Academy 1 ■
is derived from the cih&iations ofthe gutters f
of the ftnjets) account for their having he- *
come contagious, and of having afi'umed j
fucjj an aggravated and horrible form ? for
according to eveiy principle of found reason, 1
the cautes ought to have bein aggravated, !
not mod* rated, to produce Such aggravated ']
and extraordinary elfefts.
Hut, tiie Bilious Fever does not in any t
country, like-, the \ellow Fever, after con- I -j
interruption for three or
four days, cease of a fuddtfri m thdgenerali- | !!
<y of cases, (the ffctient remaining easy and k
tranquil for ieveral hours,) and then return J t .
-with an increaie of violence and with ad- 1
ditional Symptoms ; and in cases that end fa- 1*
tally, conclude the cataitrophy with a vomit- ,
in§ of matter as black as 111k. Nor dod.f- t j
feftionj dtmonftrate a mortification of tlu
ftoinach and total obitruftion of the gall
ducts in fatal Cases o{ Bilious Fever, as they I 1
do in the Yellow Fever. |J
If yoa had paid attention to what I had I , v .
pubhfhed when you undertook to prove by I w
anticipation, that I knew nosh ng aoout the I w
Subject, and might do mifchief by leffcning I w
the confidence in the effects' to be expefteu j,j
from the introduction of water into the city, J ]"
you would have perceived that I am an ad- I 1,
vocate for it; as I believe keeping the streets I | ol
clean and coo], would render the air less fa- I :/>
vorablt for the retention of contagion anj v ,
the propagation of contagious diseases.
Ihe College has also uniformly fecommend- I nl
edthe (triaeft attention to this Subject, anc J
have repeatedly adviSed the LeguiW tc *■
«[>ablifo regulations to guard, not only a*ainft r
importation, but to make such arrangements '
in the police, as might retard the operation I 1
of Contagion, when introduced by importa
tion, as may be Seen in their proceedin gs, ai- I' '
rjady paUlUhed. ° J v .
If you had been acquainted with the pro- I f o i
ce dmgs c f that refpoitable body, which con- ny
« is ot all the Senior, most experienced a»d I G.
;lt informed Physicians in this city, you , )o ',
w mid not have aiSerted that " the Legillatwe j au
«s now in pofieflion of all the information if,
JT th ° Academy or the College of Phy- r O ,
li-ians are able to communicate" for if lam |4n
not BnSinformed, (and I hav; had actefs to ,| 0
ih ru authclltic sourCes of information) not
ne Uolltge is now preparing a narative of \ m i f
», . p 1 ? t ' i iei-v' a tions, refpelting the impor- : e si
Wo - ' to t0 that en/ightened not
• r , _ _ , Mr
ti' It " ° ' C lrn P"rtance to aScer- PUE
» nthe or W of the diseaSe inqueftion, be- vid,
th " knowledge, effeftual re- ecu
X . E " rdln K return will f afl
* , Ll ' fhc<l, and as it is highly inter- rou
flionid U 5 C Co " im . unit y at large that it tior
jno,Ud le ascertained ;if y on should think ity,
«d 5 tbe fubjea in that der<:nt
* r P*&Bi»ate mam-.rr which become, a | cert
i " ul Seme, lam readv
to j.mu rffue » y o,. And am your hum
iv nrairt,
(And in rer.litv)
A XKSS.KExrAL SURG EOS.
CONGRESS,
HOUixE of REPRESENTATIVES.
li ' Ihursdat, December 17.
Mr. Otis said, the committee to whom
was referred the hill for amending the Stamp
eat. Aft, with relpeit to the duty payable on fo
> reign bills of- exchange and bills of lading,
J J] ud received information from the CommiS
, [ lonei ' ps the Revenue, stating that it would
he necetrary to provide Some comptnSatiou
tor the Supervisors, who had the management
of the •stamp bufmefs, as the preSent law
provides none. The committee had alSo Sug
s gelled the propriety oS making Some other
alterations in the bill ; he therefore moved
that the committee cf the whole be discharg
ed from the farther conlideration cf this bill
with a view of having it re-committed to
the K-lect committee who reported it.
had J iIC n '°' ion wwcarrie<1 ' and the bill was •'
re-committed', Mr. Otis afterwards made a
ucfv re P the propefed amendment? ; but
but owing to fciiK informality, the report
was not received. '
erv ' ' ,e bil ! for the enumeration of
the inhabitants of the United States, was j
fit- , tbe passed ;as was also
ten r iV reported to be due
ive ' ?*v " rt^ n ftatCS ' tlle Commissioners for
lettling the accounts between the United
ha- ■ t3 <! t S a:,^.^ e ' ievera l states, 55 votes being 1
iu tavor of its paflage.
, w . ' 1 hatcher, frotn the committee <>f re- 1
(5t widwfioilhed bulmefs, made a report
ts " 1 expiring laws, which was ordered to
' be printed.
ho r he s F ake t was proceeding to take the |
lenle of the HouSe on proceeding with the I
' unfinilhed buSmeSs of yefterdar, viz. the I I
1 Bankrupt bill ; when,
e- I ■ r " w;1 " moved to postpone this Sub- '
; m " ! eft ti!l to-morrow, in order to consider tlic 1
ad I by his colleague '
at ail d this morning laid upon the deik. 1
. I Ihe motion being- agreed to,
re Mr ' Grifwo!d ca!led up for consideration 1
01 . the teSolution which he yefterelay laid upon
the table for the appointment of a committee .
ie' to » C ° n " <Jer t!le propriety of amending the 1
w I A . for the puhilhment of ceruin crimes '
r I agamft the United States, So at to provide a c
penalty for any citizen who shall usurp the 1
I Executive authority of this government, by
It I j° minen p' n g or carrying on, any correfpon-
,j- dcnce with government of any foreign prince 1
I° r re lative to controversies or disputes, n
p which do or shall exist bitwixt Such prince or P
I date and tiie United States.
I The resolution having been read, g
is I r * c ' lo ' as he believed this to'be a
I neceflity Sor making the propoSed inquiry ; d
. I ind, if it had any particular objeA in view,
" j :he motion appeared to him premature. If 31
v t was founded upon what had been seen in k
the public papers relative to the condud of
1 certain gentleman who has lately been in
I F ranee, he thought the mover ought to have
' j 'f a 'ted until the President of the United 6
j states had put the house in possession' of vl
acls 011 this fubjeft; which, though promised 'I
j hree weeks ago, had not yet been received. a {
I Indeed, he did not know but the conduit of di
I 'his house in giving an opinion upon thefa
' JiSpatches, before they are received, had pir
■> vented the communication ; and if the houk hi
I hould proceed to leeiflate upon them, the
President may suppose they have no delire
' I i-O ice what he has proniiSed to lay before Q.
' chem, and withhold them altogether. If any
1 particular has given occasion to this
j new kind of legislation, the house ought to
I know it. He had hoped that no change had th
1 j taken place in the affairs of this country Je
with refpeft to foreign nations, which cculd
have dire died the resentments of gentlemen an
to any particular person. He had hoped s a l
things were mending, and he had gathered th
theSe hopes from the addreSs of the President ch
I it the opening of the session, as in that ad-
I Irefs, he leeoned to wish to argue down the Sei
I too Sanguine hopes of a Speedy reconciliation S«r
I which might arise from the communication coi
I wlpch he had to make en the fubjeft. This f or
was not only .the impression which the address cot
I :iad made upon his mind, but it was, as far as p r <
J lie had learnt, the jreneral impression. In- fay
leed, he found a different tone even amongst
I thole gentlemen who had always been the is f
I loudefl in their cry Sor war, from what ex- not
J ifled when he last parted with them. Nothing m ai
j vas then heard, but a declaration of t'l."'
I low he heard nothing of the kind. Think- not
I ng, therefore, as he did, that the fubjeft is sen,
j )f too novel a kind for general legislation, tubi
J without fomegood reason being affignedfor ' J
I t, and that the house does not pofTefs fuffi- on
I ient information, if the measure be levelled f OU i
J it a particular objeft, he was opposed to the The
j motion.
I _.^ r * Grifwold Said, the gentleman from the
y lrginia had mistaken the objeft of this re- e rnr
I 1 olutioii, in fuppoling it had reference to a- that
ny particular peifo.n. Its obje'ft, said Mr. fc
" Is B tn eral, and I think of the Sirft im- satn
j .>ortance. I think it necefTai yto guard, by The
law, against the interference of individuals , nrr
in the negociation of our executive with the hanc
governments of foreign countries. The pre- thin
lent Situation of Europe, in his opinion, calls
aloud Sor a regulation of this kind. He did
not know but an interference of this kind '
might have already taken place ; but the ob- A
jest of this motion was profpeftive, and had decta
nothing to do with what is past. If, said oftht
Mr. G. offences of this kind are to pass im- convc
puniihed, it may be in the power of an indi- mand
vidual tofrufttate all the deSigns of the ex- th ""
ecutive. The agent of a faction, if Such a Hafo
faftionfliall exist, may be fcnt to a foreign fcri'x
country to negeciate in behalf of that sac- be pa
tion, in oppoGtion to the executive author M
ity, and will any ore Say, that Such an of- f \™;
fence ought not fevf-rely to be puffifhed ?It »p'
certainly ought. Placing the Subjeft in this d .c
trady point of vie-.':, L» thougiit k lhe duty of ths
hum- Isgiaitiy* to tnqnire into it. He was not
certain that adequate prov.Uoricouldbe inade
puni'iiment of ejfcncesof thit kind,
>.v. but he w,fh: I th; matter wgoto a eomn.it
-- »orx^mtid?srtti o n. He hoped no occafjon
woiii t . r-ar.le iar brin:;iag into opei-ation
a la-j-ol t.ns kind ; l„ !t if i» ihould, it would
be WJ-! type prjpa.ei th meet it. He could
7c 2*15 tl, ' s 'bould b." wonfidered as a
u i v c. of untation, a» nogrntleman would :
pretend to fay, tl'u an ur.authonied indivi- I
• w to cxercife a power which flrould
"Z 1 % nieafures of a foreign govern.
refpea to this country. This
liS i P °T f b 7 n by the constitution
trnif' I r I i /> llJent 5 said Mr. G.thepeo
oi Ui f J" ct ' imtr y m! R:bt as well meet and
itiou I fo [ us ' or erea themfclves into a
nent l JU j.' C ' tribllnaI > in place of the efhblifhed
! J ud l C,ar >; ? s , that any individual, or set of
r IIT _ Pf rfon3 n '°uld take upon him or themfeives
1 power, veiled in the executive. Gen
oved —" /* thU aII is ri ° ht ; but » in his
opinion, such praaices would oe deftruaive
hill u s I j® P v;nci P lss of our government. He
• " hoped, therefore, the resolution wouil be
a to agreed to.
Mr. Nicholashad no idea that the gen
vas tie ma n from r onneaicut could not mean
to makethislawretrofpeaivejbuthethought
theboufe ought to possess more information
' " on 'be fubjea, before they undertook to le
iof f'^ atc u P on 't* ;"W»e constitution having de
fined what re a foil shall be, he conceived it
• was not in the power of the legislature to
due Crea . t j e 3 rtW offt '" ce of '' is kind ; and if it
for iitl he thou B ht " Wo, ' ld be unneceiTaiy.
ited bether the gentleman had any reference in
in-- i • 1 a ' d of a f aaion,to a faction exist
- I mg at present in this country, he could not
■ re . ! !be would fay however, that if he had
, ort ; "ad any ihare in fending the gentleman al
to i , d t0 ' P" rance > be should not be af
| hamed to coufefs it : he fliould not be afha- ;
! med or afra 'd, to promote the peace of his !
the ! ccuntr y* Nor, were it not for the apprrtnt
t( , e | arrogance of such a step, (bonld he h.'mfelf !
be aftamed or afraid of ctoffing the Atlan- J
ijb if by doing so he could procure Peace !
the , h ' g cou,llr y- Nor did he think the Peo
-ue P' eof Ameri « would be oflunded with him
for this aaion. If, fai.l Mr. N. all indivi- '
dual uiterftrence is to be prohibited, the ?
on P re^dentj having declared all negociation to 1
■on , at 'be end, how is Peace to be procured I !
tee f» ,d be, are so likely to take 'a ttep \
;he ina biiuocfa of this kind as tbofe whoare to
ies {na . re thc . f "joyment of Peace ? The mif
e a chief which gentlemen fee in a eohdua of C
he this kind, he could not understand. If, a
by said he, any individual or set of men were
,rr- bfnt upon involving the country in war,
ice thc cafe would be very different-He could 1
not consent to class the two descriptions of M
or persons together. o
[The remainder of this debate {hall be °
given to-morrow. The other speakers for P
b e and against the motion were. Mtffrs Rut
-34 Hac P e r, and N. °'
0 Y'l . ' Nitholai
r . debate continued till three o'ckick, when w
Mr. Otis rose, but a motion being made to m
If adjourn, the house adjourned, without ta
in Kmg a question upon the resolution 1 "1
of 1 fe
in Our fpiritcd and aaive Mayor has, with- 'P'
in a few days, fined a great number of per- fc
:d tons, under llatute of corporation, for dri. '
5 f ving "eighs through the Citj without Bells pe
•d This is mentioned as a caution to others, an
1. a g a mft a praaice so obviously improper and f' 1
)| dangerous. ' in
a -- 'r
.. The Vice Prefidcnt has at length taken tri
t his feat in the present session. [ ln
,e j an
e , appropos. j P&
e Observations made in tbe first Session of xst'\
y Congress cn tbe compensation to be allow- 3
s ed tbe Vice President.
*1 Under the claule in thc report, toaUow '
' the V ice President 5000 dollars per aim. a : V s .
Y debate ensued , fyl
J Mr ". w hite (Yirg.) said, he did not find
? an >" thin S lh the constitution authorizine- a . e
ry to that officer. He therefor* moved W ''
that the sum should be struck out, and the a,Uj
t clause so amended, as that the Vice Present " 0t
- should receive daily pay as President of the forl
" Sem-te—in which capacity alone, he said, * nc ,
> fsrvices could be exaited from him and he 1
1 could not confidently vote any allowance but pm
i for tirvices. aaually performed. Sir, the cou
J constitution has not pointed out the Vice t '* lc
1 President as an officer'to be provided for : it tin "
• fays, the President (hall have a fixed and enal
: permanent compenl'ation for his services, but ted
' is silent as to the Vice President. We are felf '
notauthorifed to inrtitute sinecures for any "*
man—Whether the Vice President may or
may not puriue any other business, I will
not pretend to fay. He may, however, ab
sent himself from tbe tbe public service and To 1
wbo can call bim to account ?
Mr. Sedgwick observed that the principle
on which the motion of Mr. White whs
founded, did not appear to him to be just. GEN
The Vice President is an officer by the con
fkrution, who in cafe of accident, is to take ftron
the chair and is to reside at the feat of gov- fylva
ernment—from which it appears nec fTary with
that he should receive a permanent salary. ty ai
Mr. Seney—By the constitution, eompen- timei
sation is to be made for services performed, 'dua
'Tbe Vice President may absent himself dur- confe
mg the whole time. lam forgiving him a minii
handsome allowance, while emplcyed, but I It
think he ought to be paid, per diem. pie o
■ fount
NOTICE. with
ALL ptrton. indebted to Jamcs Emlbn, late T Y> v
of Middlerown, in the county of Delaware, duty
deeeafed, are requeued to make payment to either under
of the fubfcriH.-rs, whom tbcjr fiiall find it mofl refifta
convenient to call en: and all persons havipg de- -n l,
mands, will be pleased in like manner, to furoilh ! .
them, that thiy may be paid. their
Ail rents, which fell dtie oa or befor# the fourth f° r :
of the icrh month last are payable tothe sub- much
fcri'iers ai.d those which accrued after that day will sword
be p«yah!e to the guardian! of his children who, ritrh*«
wilt dnly nfitify the tennants where to pay thc
fame. nutelj
MIERS FISHER, of Philadelphia, } '.Fxrc-
ABM. PEfiNELL, of Middletown, 5 utirj. tion
d«c i 8 jaw6w tude
- t— 1 li.s morning-, the SciutJ of t&s State,
! not . , . ,
made :l • ' vaited °n the Prr'lLhr of the
kind, United States, ar.J prelented the followiii■*
ADDRESS.
atyoa
atson 7 0 t }, e p RXIIJIENT oft | ie u>j ITrD States
'■l,i r,t ">
as'a" THE Senate of PennfyK'anfa, sensible of
t your mariy arduous and important dutien,
'divi- I wou ' d "Wher claim a portion of your time
10'ild ° f at,tnl '°"> d,d 'bey not consider it int um
vern bent on them, at acu tis of our public affairs
This* 38 no* presents iifelf, to ex
ition P rffs thf fentin, " ts they entertain refpedi
■ wg ,he contlua of th- French government,
ind 31 consequent measures adopted during
no a y uur a^m,ni " ra, ' on
ifhed ' < >cp P' e the United States, attach-
L-t of r° H'* F . rfnch natlon ' "dent in the
elves c . a rat '°nal freedom, once found it d'f
Gen- . to re^ral 'n their sympathy and affeAicn
l his Wltb ' n t ' le boundary, which *s a neutral na
tive " wa ' J h<i « r duty to refped ; even when
He reitfralfd injuries had, in some degree, a -
1 be wa kened 'htm to a confeioufnefs of their
own situation, their set lings were rather
gen- ». j °^ te £ ret 'ban of resentment : they be
nean ' ievsd > the pressure of momentary cir
ajht cum " ancM > a "d the imperious impti'fes of
it ion bad occasioned their fufferings.
j le- a:ld were disposed to regard, with a friend
rde ' c 'be ftnadelt advance* towards a re*
J . conciliation.
eto The continued aggression of the French
if ; t republic has rendered it to remain
ary. " this delusion. Our government has
• e i n f n . traduced and lnfiiltcd in the feditiuus
sift. Publications of the French ag *u in this
not £ ountI 7 The mofl flagrant attempts have
had , en made to sow division among the people
ial °f tbe United States—Out commerce, car
ned on under the fanilion of folernn treaties
(ha- and the laws of nations, has been pillaged
' his 1° an f norm ? u u s amount—Our seamen have
rtnt ~ Cn '> n ominioully thrown into prison
ifelf °" r offers of P cace have beer, haughtily re
lan- J c<aec, > alld °»r Envoys treated with con
ace « ume V—'Demands of tribute have been in
'eo- ' o!entl y ma de, and, in cafe of refufal, we
bim . vc bce . n threatened with the fate of na
jvi _ tions which have b»en bartered away, or de
the £ radcd from the ranlc of fovereigu powers
ito lnto th . c condition of fate lies to the French
ed > republic. Uuder this accumulated oppref
*ep V?"' ac q"''efcence would have been incon.
:to . ent , wuh O'irTafety, and patience would
nif. " ave degenerated into pusillanimity. We
of , contemplate, therefore, with the highest I
approbation, the wifdem with which you 1
ere i hav ? fo , rcfeeD lhe dan g", and the firmnefs (
fj . | with which you have refitted its approach, t
uld Under an adminillration so well conduced, a
of w r e « nt r ertain a fi rm reliance, that the people e
ofthefe states may equally defy the poison r
b e ot foreign intrigue, or the violence of foreign t
f or Power.
lit- That any change of men or measures, f
N- 1
en would have secured a continuance of har
to mon y " ,th l . hc French republic, we regard I
ta- a ' a la ' ac y> invented and propagated by de
figmng men, too palpable to receive the as
sent of any whose minds have not been fc
h . previously corrupted by prejudice, or ob- r £
:r- { l a [ eA h Y '?norance_We rejoice to find b,
r{ _ ; that our eonftituents are fully aware of the be
Is. tendency of f ore i S n influeace, b
, s> and itrpreft with the derpeft detestation of k
ld th € condua of ibofe who, by an officious '
inttrfetence in our foreign relations, have w
j trauoroufly attempted to wrefl the adminif. th
, n t rat ion of our public affairs from the hands
<n which the constitution of o UI country, th
j and the fuffrages of a free and enlightened &
j people, governed in their choice by a know- xn<
ft : 1 RC - n, ,r "! d vlr,ue and "nineot talents, kr
, have jullly placed it. pe
Sl.ou'd an appeal toarmsbe found neceff- H;
w 1 *??' to Preftrve our liberty, or vindicate our Fr
a I rig us, be assured: that the c.tizens of Penn- pl«
j fylvama, as they have eminently partaken
d l^ e benefits resulting from the operation of; ™
a the Oeneral Gonrnment, and are irepr-.ffed ,ea
d with an unabated confidence in the virture
e a " d of its sdrniniftr.it,or, wi 1
t not be fout<d backward iu hazardioc their
c fortunes, ar.d their lives, to 'ensure continu- ' f
ance to the orc, and support r* the other. Ne
e Independently of the perfunal efleem your -
t private virtues command ; as lovers of oor
; country we cannot but indulge ourfdves in -r
; \. P learin K ,10 you may long con- I
t mj i - en j°y men t of health ; and be
j enabled, during' many years, to fill your exal- dj V
t ted Itation with undiminished hoijur to your-PP ro
. ielf, and increasing happinef. to the Ameri- ,he
r cai people.
( Signed)
1 Speaker.
! To viicb the President made ticfollowing
REPLY:
" tbe S£!f jrß of P&MsrivAXijt. is th
GENTLEMEN, son*
r n ui- FEEL my/elf under the m""
ftrongtfl obligations to the S,nata.of Perm- to y
f>lvania for thts excellent address, in wh eh, •" ac
with no less wisdom andprecifion, than gravi
ty and digntty, they have expressed the sen
timents they entertain, reacting the con
dudl ot the French government, and the Hi
conl -rjuent mcafur «s adopted during my ad- to N
ministration. a ' t h e n
It was not at all unnatural that the peo
pie of the United States (houlJ once l!ave Whc
found it difficult, to restrain their sympathy
with the French nation, within the bounda
ry, which, as a atutral nation it was their <!e:
U 7 t ° v . r? , pe s t- Mcn who bave once been
under the hard nectffity of having ricourfeito
Ift M-fi"ul™ 5 ' c PP° finon to their own A
established habits of obedience, in defence of a
their own rights, arc apt to/eel a veneration '
for all men, who think tttfiifclves io T
much as to be obliged to draw their
.words in defence of what they elte-m
rights, Vithout # at firft very m'< dtl
nutely, whether rightfully or not.
. Wit bout entering into any inveftiirr. '
tion at ptelint, concerning the reai VVa3 '
tudc of the meafurc taken at the cotoi
t.ue, i ir-encemcTit ft the late revolution In Fnr.cr,
f the j "l\ttcv<-r rm>\ be the jvd^rt-nt
. hiriory, it is-lease, ly- pollihle ii this
lVlw o J tor thy iutn whole impartiality is not -a'lit 1 ■
■ lv- ;i! foriu-n bv passion and prejudice, td
j nvfhkc in their jud.jnwnts of the late con.
atf.s i the French i-epnblic, tdu'ards i-pav.">
J other nations »w w'efl s; our c>-n. There U
ale of f ' ,ut little of {ciitiment at this nv '
utie*, | merit in Europe r America,
time Whether change of men or meafsres
rum- nn our P"rt Vould nave f-cured a continu
iffairs j ance-ef harmony wiia the French republic,
i ex- cvfn the expence and hazard of a certain
pedl- • uar w;t h her enemies, maj he conjefhired
nent, j 1 ruw the eflefh of chanrres of men and mea-
Jriiig fures, niadP under her di&ates, in all the re
publics of Euro; e, wh'r.h have fallen viftin |
tach- to thc '' r complaisance.
ii the * rejoice wijh you to find, that your con
td f ftituents are fully aware of the pernicious
fticri tendency oi foreign influence, and imprefled
1 na- w,th the «<Teft detefhuion of the conduct cf
when those, who, hv an officious interference in
e, a- ° ur f ore 'gn relations, have as meanly as pre
their fnmpttWufly, attemfptetf to wrest the admi
ither niftrat ! on of °u r afairs from the hands
Y be- ' n the ronftitntion of our country,
• cir- and t^le ' "ffrages of a free people, have nlac
,s Q p ed it.
ings. Yo,,r acknowledgements that the citizens
end- of Penn syl v ania have eminently partaken the
a re . benefit" re Inking from the Operation of the
general government, and are imprefed with
ench una ' )at£( ' confidence in its administration,
nain V e . j S onora^la to that government) as vour
has decided affurancf; that ftould an/apfea!-to
; j QUi arms bs found neceffarv. to jrefcrvc our lit. r
this / and vin '^ icate our rights, they will not be
have found-backward in hazarding their fortune*
ople ancl llves ' are to themfclvesi
ear- "*> t ''' tln!on s T cf " the Senate o:
, t ; c6 of their perf. ml efleem for my privite
chancier, as st is highly honorable to me,
iave liaS CXCi . a tcr^cr rt*iifibilrty,and rcnairc*
n my r-.oft reTpeftful thanks. May you long
continue, gentlemen, in the enjovpxnt if
•on- heilth / and dunr "?' many years to £ll rour
• uati#ns with honor to yourCdve*, and
ir.crcafirtg happiness to the people of Peun
lylvania in partisular and the union in
" a " general.
,er ß ' n k o JOHN ADAMS.
December 28, 1708.
och
res Extraftofa letter from an American it
°"- Spain, dated 9, 1798, to hi
u[d friend in Philadelphia.
We «, Tfiat the crews of Frer.ch privateer*
! ove plundering better than fighting, has
ron been demonstrated on several late occaOone.
lets One privateer has lately returned to St. Se
°h. baftian, Wlt h the captain, firft lieutenant,
ed, and seven men killed, and in a very flutter
ple ed condition f while the American arrKed
lon merchant vessel which had been attacked by
ign the privateer pursued her voyage. On thef
30th of Septsmber, ten Ameiican vessel
es, from Malaga. while the
.ty Frenc* privateers .n that p ort did not dar«
8p » molcfl. them."
ar
•rd Extract of a letter from Lexington, dated
r . December 7 th, i 7qß .
ar- A meeting of the Demo's was called a
en few n 4 gh t s ago, at Tilton's, to receiv^Si
r?° rt ot his miflion to Franee ; the meninir
' lr r„ I K°:",;: J " n »«»««»■« of Dick.
us Poole; Star and the reft are Kiffhly plaaf-d
7 £ t ; e ' miffi ° n ' hejieyo the excrtfons" of
if. their envoy to have been highly,ufeful.
th lto \ hem ' lf th = d'ti-rencc between
y this country- and France was not accomm
:d atcd ' " 7 0uld the fault of this govern
?* n \ and not of the Directory ;-_he ac
s, knowkdged he had letters fro m ui
persons of there, and laid if y oa
r. Kepubhcans would address a petition to'the
,r , r^ Ch Dfeaoiy, you would get what vou
i
1 IF.Dj—Tart evening, bv the Rev
r Ewmg, Mr. Andrew Caldwell'
r
r 1 — '
General Orders.
: nasssas
° rd " lf "' Com mar,(l ej - j n chief
£ HIKMERiAdXoL
notice.
r
tji ,^1* COPAk ' r, '*R»Bir(W
HUDSON isf YOkKE
U this day diffolvtd by mutual corfart ill „ rr
son, .ndeVtd to UiC firm are
immediate payment—a-J
mand, are L™ 3a > d «="
toWUXIAM HUDSON , <l "'^ ,tl ™e» e
«o adjust the fan""
REMOVAL.
WILLAM HUDSON
Front* flrcet
r, n 8 ' Chcfn «t. neai- tho comer of Fron r *
ft™.'?**" °"-»->
an exte/ifine afwmtnl of
. »n goods.
deccmher 18 *
Black India Luftring^T
TO be sold low Fon cash
No - 5S> nxrth Th'rrr 1 , flrut by
dec. 28 SAMUEL C. COX.,
diw
'w « A Small Keys.
Was loft yeftcday aftcnioo-i-.- , v n , son A ,
-gthemu.h,, 6fficc WU^;:^^ 7 -.. IM PORTED
IN THE I.AST ARRIVALS,
Superfine-, fine and common cloths
Swanfluwnf
Baize*
Vei wets
Vef«rett«
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hairribbands
Sewing silk
Brufleis and Perfu caipettj
Buuons
Far sale, for cajh or credit, if
SAMUEL MEH-RICK.
no. 143 Arch street.
Nov. 16 §tjani
FOR SALE, : ~
at nc 9, South WATER-Sr*EtT.
liilh
aflorted, in whole and half boxes
Chatks, in d4tt©
Drogheda's, a d Brown Jr-8 beetled Liaens
Iri§\ Hackle*) Flax
Scott* Tkr-ati
Men and Womens Combs
RuHTu Duck, of an excellent quality, and
too hhds. Aux Cayes Molaffcs.
By ISAAC HAR VEr, junr.
d 4 W
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an I
i.loiii":> ' Ul ' twelve ijjlife&ort, for the tnfuing
yrjr, \vilj hu I eld at the Bat;k on Monday, the
i4th of Jai.uary next, at I-en o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, CalVr.
''■ c. 8, I7<jß. dtEl
ANY French Ladies and Gentle
ftirp wanting passage tor>France, can ob'Jin it ili
a VeiLl New-York, by applying to McJT's
Gah:. <Sc Mumfi.id it) that City,
lit?. to.
Ccs Darcxes nu Meffieur# Francois, qui veulent
pr(T I eu l'.aocc, ptuven; c;re fui ua |
fcatin entpartant de N. York, en s'addreflant ekiz |
M. M.Gahn arid Mumford, dan eeuevillc.
Uc. IS. 3t I
NOTICE.
ALL Prri'u-5 iiid~!,:c i to lieEftiteof WH. I
liam lieau 'hainp, lately deceased, are de- j
fired to n ake immediate payment and tho<t- who (
have any clairos sgjinft fiid Estate to pioduc* J
their accounts properly attested to {
Sam!, Price y executor. 1
uov 20 dim
" • fOR tALL, ' ~
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, to j' t J
On moderate terms for Cash or a short credit j
yames Lyle,
South Seven!/}ftreet, near Cbefnut. j
nov ,16 j I
FOR SALE,
To be FX CHANGED Ifor property within thirty I
mi es of the city, or to let on ground- rent forever I
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia, I
Enquire of WilUani M. twiddle. ne. 147, Chefnut- 1 1
street. I '
nov. xa_„J ' ___ " S I-
—- - 1 |
FOR SALE,
By the Subscribers J
200 Bolts Ruflia Duck, i
50 pipes London paiticular bill MadciraWine 1
1 pair nine pound Cannon T
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4000 hs Fine Flotalndigo " ""} i'
33 Barrels Beef. I
Willing! & Francis. 1
Penn-ftrtet, ) i
Novembtr jj j |
ALL PERSONS having any legal demand's- 1
ga nil the dilate of IViltiam 'Pa ii*s, dece fell, J a
lats of tlir city t>f Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are !'
requested to furnilh their accounts properly »u- I si
thcaticated, and all ptrftms indebted-to said eftite n
are r.-q jetted to make payment to the fubfenber in
Philadelphia,
LEVI HOLLtNGS WORTH Adminr.
Oilobcr 31ft, 1798. |
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Br;-aftof Milk, J
Enquire at No. 58 South Front I
£)ec. 10.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD,
DfeSE kt TEi> last night, a second time, from |
the Marine Camp, David Lupcr, a fife--, |
He had when he went away, a plain Huejaihttand j
veil,light blneovera-tls, around hat which had been | "
hound with yellow, -And whieh he had ripped off |
in hi« fit ft defertioii, and a pair of new fhoei. he is }
a Carpertttr by trade, has grey eyes, far.dy bur j
f .flow complexion and a nitch in his tipper Hp I
His back is ftilt'fore from a flogging hr got a few I
days ago He may bo Jifcovtred by his fifeing, Ij
ai he plays ejtrcmely well. I H
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
October 17. Marine Corps, j ~
FOR SALE, It
Fifty Acres of Good Land, J
Lving inOloucestek County, Jv\
State of heir J'rfey, j ca
TWENTY-FOUR acres of which ate
the relt, Meadow. This tr
land lies about half a mile from Tioiber-Cre«k, I
and two miles from the river Delaware, the I p
county road patting through it, and the great pj (
road only two miles distant. Por terms, apply f,„
to, ' I'ATKICK DOGHERTY, jx.
Sign of the Raintoiu, iil Shippen, dit
between Second and Third-Jtreets. I wli
dec a f tuth&i'tw I att<
ALL PERSONS
Indebted to th« Eftafe of Mr. John FiNfo.Taec I
of Philadelphia, deceased, are- desired to make pay- I
ment, and thole having any demand*, to p reft fit I
them fer fettUratnt, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adrn'r.
or I J:
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
■to the admisiilMtiun. tj
no». 3o ■ sim |
ALL perlons indebted «o the Eftale of S*m. f ltt
VfL Willis, elq. of Murrey townfh'p, j; 0l
in the jnty of Cycoming, lately deceased, ar*
herebjet,/quired to came forward irnmediilely j
and refpetniv^dehrj.'—And all perlons I -
Laving legjl demands .igiinft the Eflat'e, Jar« I
requeued to produce their accounts, properly I Indi
autbenticned, for settlement. I are
JOHN WALLIS, -) W „1
WILLI A M ELLIS, f Admtniftra- duct
DAMEL C rem.
JOHN ADtUM, )
december \T$ jtawfw
Tltli CARGO,
Or ihv. Ship INDIA,
Asumrad, from BATAVIA,
, Conjiiting of
jths JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fit 11 Quality—to be Sold, by
MORO2C.iI LEWIS,
drc T I diw
~ FOR SALE,
or THE SUBSCRIHER S,
14 four pound Cannon, different lengths, j
5 Carronades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. §
'4 Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
nt Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
drc r $
* ell LJMNCL StCkEL;
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular f
Madeira, Pert, Shtriy and Lilbon )
Cognise Brandy, ift to 4th proof.
Sp rrta.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-cSft or Gallon.
dec t mw&fiw
>♦ •' - . -- -
w Now Landing,
From on board the fliip John Bulkeley, and '
for sale at the (lore# of JtlTe & Robert
Wain,
u'ng 35°> ot '° weight of Java Coffee,
the of the fir It quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifters.
1 * _ nov. 11 drf 1
; le - ~ JallaW.
A QUANTITY to be difpoled of, if applied far
XX. ately, on boird the Ship Loui(a, lyi^g
Mr. HL"MPHR*EY's S.iip Yard.
novembgr 10. J
ent Imported,
un In the Ships Aflive and Liberty,
u '~ i I from lIiMtORGH.
t Ticklenhurghs,
Oznabrigs,
,'H.j White Platilias
dc -1 Brown Silefias
jc'J j Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
J Brown Rullia Sheetings
German Lindfevs,
Bed Ticks, SsV.
Far Sale by
j GEORGE PEHKOCK.
I no. 103 Market-ftrect.
I nov 10
SHCJLMAKER BLR RETT,
_ j HfcTF RtMOVtD THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
rty I
er I to No. 9, fquth Front (beet.
S » • ~
I Their room at the Coffee-houfe will coattliue to
, t . Ibe attended from 11 till z o'cloik in the day, and
I from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening!.
—"I JACOlTOnalwl II trVn ,~ _
J Hll also removed his CouDtiiig houfc~to~tTir
I f&me place, where he has for sale a few pipes ehoic*
j London Paaticular Madeira Wir>e ; Frcuch and
I span>lh Brandy ; Claret in casks and caf-s, of fu-
I perior quality, and a few Packages Olafs and
I Qnceti's.ware ; alfo,a quantity ef Carolina Soal
:.| leather, which will be fold very low to clofc the'
I fairs.
I Philadelphia, It mo. it, 1798. 5
THI PARTNERSHIP Of I
Alexr. J. Miller,
a- T>EING dissolved on the firft inftarit, by the
d, O death of James Davis, allperfons indebted f
re to the fame art requested to fettle with tie fub
u- fcriber, and those to whom th.-y are indebted are ?
te requested to call on him for payment,
•n ALEXR. J. MILLER, ' in
No. 64, South Frontflrett. *' a .
Who has on hand, o
10 si DisrosED or oh low tiiim,
By the- Package or Picee. hi
r. Fine plain and tamboured Muslins b<
t, J Guzzennas re
Battas
j j Coffaes aj
Rabobgungies pi
I India Callicoes M
J Bonk Muslins so
I Coloured ditto to
„| - Real & Mock Madras & pu!llc«t hkft.
ff 1 Brown Sileffas ' ed
j„ 1 Tickings, (3r. iff c . pe
ir j —. - f , , on
i JUST ARRIVED, £
'It«« A * So.a t m in.t or
" I trim Linens 5s 1 Ruflia Sheetings. »bi
e J nova 8 ?
-1 A Young Man,
• i "\X7" HO writes a e ° od hlnd > understands
V V account." abd ean'be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Adiflant in a
j Wnolefale Store, or Coiiutitvg hc«fc. Appli
j canon to be made at this Office. t
Z _ nov 14 X
-5 I ~€T L ' —— ii Frr
\fo the Creditors of-the Subscribers fuli
. f pLEASE TO 1-AKE NOTICE, that we h.vesp' lac
t £, P' lcd '° ' he > d f« Q{ ' hc Cou.t of Common
Pleas, for the btnefii ol an aft of alTcmbly, paff-d the
rammVr , Apnl Hi. 1 » od ' hc v have a, p Jimrd
I I?- . lhc 2 7 th to hear us and our Cre
ditors, in the city of Philadelphia, at f« c h place
where the Co.rt may be held, ana where you may
j attend it you plcile. 1
PATRtCK CnVANAUGH.
JAMES DOUGHERTY, J
■ PETER G. ROSE, ble
JOHN GREENE,
LEVI IS D GRAFF,
JAMES M-CALLEY. A
RICHARD STOKES
dec*B
-
TN one of the street. between Union and Saf
-1 fafras, on the ,tb , , ftant , the outside g AS ,
of an Englift G Id VV -h, chafed on thebatk
w.th a (W. Any person who may find the T
fame, and will bi lng to this office, will receive 1
our Dollars re war< j i and tie thanks of the of J
ow ; fr - No,
dtC 7 - Keg
All Perlons
IntJehteitothe"Eftate of HENRY HII.L, deceased Tru
I "'a W K qU r e k' 10 to the fubfenber ; d artl
and those havn g any demands on the fame to pto °
I duct their acceun-. for fsttlenitm. y »
GiDEON H. WELLS, and
a n °- Market street " pt
rfntadeljAia, dtc. 4, eotf
r at
Imported
In the last arrivals front Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT JtZA SOWAtfLE PRICES AND ON A LIBIKAL
CREDIT, BY
W Pll ATT Vf KINTtING,
K0.95, North Water ftrtet.
215 bales & boxes Ticklenburghs,
'hs, hempen linens and oinabrigs from 1/5 to
3f P cr c 'l
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
— s 40 do. brown rolls iuitable for cof
fee bag*
20 do. itrong do. do. for cotton do.
30 chests platillas 1 do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
<• 30 do. crcas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail twine
" IX do. eftopailtos 1 do. watches
15 do. Bielefield Rfwn 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterbornes 91 cases claret
45 do Brittanias 130 do fine lcng corked
E3. 1 do. Holland canvass claret
I de. Rufiia do. hufliels fine la!t
3 do. RuflTia fiieetings 40 csik.ofroll brnnllone
I do. raveHs duck 100 calks of naval iiore.s.
"• 1 do. Rullia drillcni 50 logs prime mahogany
I do. brown holland 4 hhds. colfce mills
j 2 do. Silclia rouanj t> buudfc* German lleel
! 1 ds.Wahreadrop linen 10 chelti of slates and
inc J I 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
tJ t I do. Fleniiih linens A package of flcates
I do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
i lawns 4 chells of Nuremberg
;C, • I do diaper toy»
: 12 do. llripes 40 yellow ochre
I 18 do. checks 3 )i!tds. Glue
I i do. fumois $ barrel* of Lttrtilies
1 I do. Arabia stripe 5 cherts of prime red
1 do. bu::tiwg for colors crust Holland chcefe
I packs. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
• 1 do. Turkey yarn lides of upper and
b 6 hales empty foal leather
1 chest hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
2 d». bobl>m, aflorted 50 boxes glass tumblers
I box threads & tapes alloried
I do. fine blue litlados 1 hluls. puraice stone
5 chef!s men'sflippers I box of mill laws
3 do be.l ticks I calk of cutlery
a cads hog'» hriflles A quantity of Done jugs 1
6 chetts writing paper and pickling'pots 1
4 do. quills \ few (hips anchors, &c. '
John Miller, junr. .
Hat returned to the City,
AND IS KCMOVINQ FROM NO. 8, CHESNUT, 1
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Tbirdftreet. 1
Where he has for Sale -
250 Bales of Bengal Goods; j
conjutinc or ,
CelTaes a
Battas ,
Marn oodles
' Hurnhums
Caliroes
Handkerchiefs, tjfe. &c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRT GOODS, J
o Conjijling of Woqlins onty 3 11
;d AMONGST THIM *»*, C J
Cloths s
Coatings a
Blanket. t]
— a
Hats, &c.
d ALSO, I
100 Hhds. of Old Rum, vi
Of a fine flavor, 3d proof. I,
e' mn ' to $ fe
Forty Dollars Reward. _
DESERTED, ,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVefi S< buy Hill, vix. h
Oflober 19.
J n.EORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair tfad
complexion, bom in "Holland, no Trade, speak,
broken Engliihand very talkative, has a dimple
» inhiichm.
November 6. John Murphy, 17 years of r-i
5 teet.7 in height, greyeyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in ireland, city of si,
Dubm, by trade a Hiaier.
Jacob Ideri, 3A years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
h'gh, grey eyes, sandy hair, fre(h complexion, J
born in New-fingland, state of Connect, a
repeated defener, hy trade a Blackfsiith. 1
November 7. William Collins, jo yeai sos
age, j feet 6 ißches high, sandy hair, frelh com- f u |
plexiort grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardnrr, has worked for
feme tim. about Philadelphia, he is very fond h
to hear himfelf Sing. 7?
AU the above deserters are very much addia „f
ed to hquor, and will take other peopled pro
perty if , n their power, are artificially marked
on then- backs, had on, when they went away,
the* regimental Wothing. Whi.foever appre. „
hends said deforters, (hall receive forty dollars H >
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason- _!
able expences,, hy applying to ineas above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
nov ld r ' S ' ment 'f gantry commanding.
° — —
Charles Campbell, sh
tta U
H-k fiwmerly wcupi.d bo.
St a^dCh'r 7 No - '5 . corner of ol ,
from and Chefm.t-ftreew ; where he will thank
and difpalch ' °" ie " with
HI HAS CON.TAN riY OM HAND, Mr
A Neat Large Assortment of r y b
Clocks fcf Watches. S
WAN TED, [£?'
A JOURNEYMAN - '>oU
ble p»renu.° ne « «^a
— larg
FOR SALE, ' y f
A large quantity of Watch Glafles
IVbolefalc and Retail. ding
——— 3»wy
Bank cf the United States For
»TK. JS
y HAT application will be made at the Trea
f i Ury . t ot ,hr Un,ttd States for the renewal
No* of , p f r ?ent Fu »ded Debt,
Rrniftw^*r\i« 0r dollar!, 33 cents, dated J
Kcgifter $ Office, January Bth x 7nß iff".
Jf.'nt, 'fc'SZiT
r'X"' f y.'"f s-'fW a nJZi £5
dam r y m " ne y 'e"dcn in A miter'
v J" "ded 'he nth of Janua-
Inrf ft L U "u toVrr t0 N'cho'" Ohbes efq
cam ' CJ P tl,,e of top Columbus" D «
captain Skinner,from New-York for Amsterdam
aor 14 G ' Sm *f cn } ca J h ' r - R
lawiw
George Davis's
ieri, LAW-BOOK STO RE,
No. 319 Hick Sthzet,
Latest London & Irish Editions.
AL f\ EORGE DAVIS's Fall importation i? now
Vj arranged of which a more capital collec
tion he believes was never oifered for sale either
rcet. in this City, London or D»b!in It combines
hs almost every book ift.with fcveral valuabic books j
' out of prfat. Dalit's confining himfelf to'the
> to sale of Law-Books only, it will appear obvious
to profeffienal tiestlcnjen; the advantages they
ins have both in l'clc<3ion and price by purchjiing
n f from him.
His Catalogues betng ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblitre him by casing for tl'em —
10. and to thole reliding at a diltance, hy fovoring
him witJi their address (poll-paid) they fhaKbe
1 sent.
nov 26 _ m«tham
ADVERTISEMEN i.
ked Todd & iVlott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
l>ne afligned over fheir cffci.lv real, pcrfoaal, and
rc,s * mixed, to the subscribers for the benefit of all
ln X their Creditors—
ecl Notice is hereby Given,
,nd nrO all persons who are indebted to the said
JL estate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir refpe<£lr*c accounts to
fee. either of the aflign»es, or to William Mott, thei
:rg agent duly authorized; in failure whereof!, legal
mealurcs will he taken for the recovery, of such
ire debts asare net difebat grd without delay.
John Waddingtua T
, 'John Rhodes >• Affignecs.
ti y<j>» 3
e y nov. 26 tu.th^tfatFl
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
ifs For property in the Citv. or within Thirty
miles of it,
r ' A Valuable Plantation,
IN 7'ufcorora Valley, MiUlin county, containing
a!)«ut three hundred acres, the v« hole capable
of cultivation. At pre lent theie is about 50 acre*
gs cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of
Ground, enriched by a never failing flrcam, that
:c. has fall and water enough for all the purposes of I
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
~~ No. 68, Mmketflreet. j
Bovfinber 20 taw
Notice. ,
'•pHE Stock-holders of the Company encorporat- '
«d for a Permanent Bridge over the 1
River Schuylkill, are requeded to attend their
annual meeting on the firll Monday in Jaßuary '
ftixt (being the 7th day of thai month) at the City '
Hall, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, for the pur- "
pose of chooGngaPrefideiu, twelve DireSurs and "
aTreafurer of the said Company for the ensuing "
year, as by law is directed, ° "
JOHN DORSEY, tec'y, pro tern. "
dfc 17 3awt7jy *'
jcju-TiON TO THYPUBLTCT "
I
TOHH A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has 11
J for a few years past.been in the southern Ststes. c
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex- o
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and mylelf.and by that means has defrauded
a number of perl'ons ol their money, deceiving
them hy anexluliition of letters and papers with the
KKe ijiercnants Biglliy } —
Shaeffer ; to one ot these papers 1 find my name
lubferibsd, but Ido not know the man ; these are IS
villainous forg«rjes! To prev.cn: further imposition, at
I have to rtqueft the printers of Newspapers in the
United States topublifh this for the benefit of their
_ feUow-citizens. SAMUEL MERKUi rH,
Treafirer >f tit United Statu.
Trentn,?fnv-Jcrfey, ">
OQobsr 14, iygß. J
NEW NOVELS, PLATS
MAGAZINES, Vc. ' _
Chalk's Circulating- Library. Ir(
Ac. North TbirdJirecA
1 q-lIE Proprietor, in compliance with hi, pro- Cs
■ X roifes to render this Institution a complete
lource of rational antufcment and inllruaion. bv Cl
repeated acquifitiont of emertainiag and interest- R<
' "f, P^' a c " , " ! ' hii J now » d <led t0 his former Pi
collection Four Hundred Volumes of mifcrlla
*e«U/ . com P rifin e n «arly all the latest
. pvblijt. Ed A oyeh and Dramatic firoduHions r
l£S " Ch re>dy for to
Jj. B. Subfcriberi, and others, who ftiU re .
t\.n Books taken from the Library previous to r"
the Pick nets, are reqnefted to return them imme- Pa
Senitr " ' frU ' n the M* Lo
For sale,
d r"-; , '- r - ; timßw _j
Valuable Property for Sale. / Wj
FOR SALE,
i
River, in Kent county, Maryland— containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of <co" COr
of which are in woods. The Building, are all ex tio!
cellrnt, a&d coi.ful cf a handsome t>welliu K Houf'e ini£
two la ge Barns wuh Cow houses, StX. tot filrv
horles, a fpeiiious treading flpor under cover a 1
nary, two Jverfeer's houses, two ranges oftwo fts'
ry budding,for Negroes (mu- „f —
brick), Corn houses a Sn»oak fcoufe Sic Ar ru '
e^^d o h"t^Xdd
te ,SEJv£ ?"
pttss SSS*. S5 SU "'™
large Apple Orchards on the pr JLifes Mo , v ° "n
ty of excellent Iruits of differLS iL T
nicflly a rich loan..— The whole uJI k. , , foii 18
For further particularsappfy
on the fu h fcriber,
December II AIICHIBALD M
in. tf. ,
Notice.
'TT' per^ons indebted to the Ef
""Of II*ACTl tMI . If„ J -j X.I
ed 10 make immediate pavnunt TJ ,K. r"iA
nv deinai,d» auainft ■? , ha>'ug a.
tbeir accounfi duly ateOea for'fa^f \° o " xr
GEORct Davis, V
Dec. Ij. JOHN M«I27.iTJS£
MAYOR'S~OFnci SS
REMOV ED to ijy South Second-ft.-eet lh,e<
Uw 4c
THIS DAY PUBLISHED
Br WILLI J M YOU YG
b Corner of Chtfnut ..ad Second-areets
JOANo f A R C,
nis . Ah Eric Poem,
J}y Robert Son/bey ; will
us now ~ WJ7 ,j u Hot hesitate to declare o 'ur on'n'
collcc- t j, at t he poetical powers displayed j n it J '? n
' ," h f tr Ter T super.or kfiid—Conceptions mo re llot»' t »° an !
I*l.l darmsr, femimecti more commanding 1
: books gusgc n;ore energetic, will not easily be found
to the nor does scarcely a»y part of it fink into lan eu „7
ibvious as t lit, glow of feelings and geniu animate! the
ssthey whols. The language is, for the mod part
:hifmg delled o.ukat of M.lton ; and not unfremiemu '
hasjltrocg rclirfh of Shakespeare." 1C
■n will Monthly Rtvirw, Wj 0 A
l ern— *' F ' 3< "-
voring HISTORY,
haKbe o« ankcdotks of the
RE VOLUTION ix RUSSIA
llm IN THE YEAR 1762. '
Translated from the French of M. d< Rulhier
With art elfgant Hvad of the late Eniprtfs"'
[fhefecond edition, price 75- c<ntsl
" The gr. urids of M. dc Rulhiere's in'o'rnurfotf
seem :fl lifputable, and his readers appear to h-,
having every reason to be Catiified with his difcemmr?-
', ami in unfolding the motives and circumflanccs th •
of all concurred in bringing about this ftfikinjf even "
» We shall only add, that we have fjldon met
with more u.tcrefling erigmal anecdotes than'
le said th th " are comain^, i ' 1 the work whictf
. we iave now reviewed.
ints'to , Apfcndixto Mtmihly W. jj
Th*r dCC 19
f H excellent Boise & Choir,
TO be lold on reafsnnble terms at the Li., r .
Stable, No. 18 North '1 hird-street,
:s. N - f\ £ fcc Hor!c belonged to 'a gentlemen ia
one ot the 1 roops in this City.
pi iec jawtw
ALL PERSONS,
HA\livG claims against the Estate nr
SmANhAH LOCKER, decease
reqitefted t prejent their refpeitive accounts to
NaT HAN A. SMITH,
iN or I Aflmg
.ining JOHN DORSET, j teuton.
pable nov 9 j 3awfiw
acre# ——.
adow DISi RIC I* OF fENNiiYLVA.NI A,TO WIT •
t'nat BE IT REMEMBERED
SrS \l s) ™ A ' [ . °" thc day
' of August, in the twenty-third year of
v *- * the Independence u{ the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith IWton.ef the laid dif
tricl, hath dt-pofited isi this oflke the title of a
orat- boot the right whereof he claims as author in the
r thc words following to wit :
their "New Views of the Origin of the Tribes ajid
luary " Nations of America—By i'enjjmin Smith Bar-
City " ton, M. DsCtrrai'poxidexit Member of the Socio
pur- " ( y °f the Antiquaries of Scotland, MemUer »f
s and " 'be American l'hilofophical Society, fellow of
uing " thcAmorican Academy of Arts aad Spuuces of
" Boflon, Coi rofpondidg McmWr ol the Mafla
•u. " oJiui'etts Historical Society, and Profefior of
Jy " Materia Medica, Natural Miftory and Botaay
" in the Univenlty of Pennfylvauia."
In coj.iofmity to the aS of the Congress of the
Uniied St-te», intitled " An ail for ths encoungc
-3 has m«ut of learning by feeuring the copies of maps,
• tes. charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
Ex- of luch copies during the timestherwin mentioned. 1 !
rof SA.MUEL CALDWELL, Cierk, Kit. of Penn'
idsd November », 179&.
ving ——
Tava Cofeee,
ame 35° 01 flfl't
are Now Uniing from on board themip INDIA
ion, at Mr. Thos. Penrofo'i Wharf, and for I'ale by
t J ohn Aibmead,
r No- 46 .5, South Frnnt-^treit.
ates.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reajonable terms,
. Coflacs
•
' Black Taffaiiei, B^,^
Aec . totltf
Just Imported,
Iron caruion, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete— 3, 4,6 and 9
pounders.
IXO- Carronadcs, Woolwish proof, with carriages, See.
etc complete—l 2, 18 and 24 pounders,
tjy Cannon powder in kegs of 25 lbs. each
eft- K- oun d, double headed, and c»nnifl*r (hot
„er atellt Jhearhipg copper, bright, aflbra'd 18,20,
H a . ll > 2 4i and 28 or per square foot, ihects 48
, a by 14 inches, fuitalle for frora 100 ta
J 1000 tons
1 Copper nails, bolts and spikes
t0 Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlaffis
re " Gunners stores of all kinds
to Tin-plates No t —l-3 cross boxes
Ne- Pattnt (hot in ca(ks of Jcwt. each
(th London porter and Hrowo fluut, in calks of 7 doz»
bottled.
Earthen ware ia c. ates, assorted
For Sale by
>n, SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth llrect.
J w Oftobcr 29. eo tf.
Insurance Company of NdrthAmerica.
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
id are hereby informed, that a ttated meeting
ice of the Company will be held at their Office
" as on the 3th of January next, (being the fs
,aJ cond Tuesday in the Month) for the elec
£. tion of twenty-five Dire&ors fcr the eiifu»
le, ing year.
ry E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
a " Dec. i2ih.
e-
i e An Apprentice Wanted,
'd A TOUTH,
*** Of Reputable Conne£lion&, & fofficicnt qualificatir
is wanted as an Apprentice thc Bufincfs of a f
ui tary Public 2nd Conveyanoer.—Enquire of tbe f
ro ter.
e- Dec. f. ra.»*
I ~ FOR SALE, *
No. 7. South fown-rH-STiitE "A
r . 1000 pieces Nankeens,
A JSojc of Silks
15 ao Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of 133*--
A parcel very fine Oifiia.
C. HAIGKT.
dec y 3af iw
For Sale,
A well improved Plantation,
h Of one hundred and twenty acres,
VERY beautifully Glutted jn the c«u*<f •'
| Montgomery, about twenty miles from th e
eitf— l'he buildings are all new and finifted f»
.is to accommodate a genteel family only < —For
lurther information, enquire at the PennXyivai"*
Coat-os-Arms, nineteen miles from town, jn °
three above Morris-town,
December t$ fa.&w.tf