cf tiie tliivtS and Philadelphia Doily Jldzicvtiscv.
By John Fenno'.' N* rm Ch*i*,it
Nu,r,, s , 160'/ j • PHILADELPHIA; FRIDAY t ~.'Z" '
Loft, or taken awp.y by miilake, I
< n ar about the iith Mevember liil,from «n board
the Ihip Cwhmerce, Rfei'.rd WaiScoat, maimer,
,alH.om Liverpool, lying at Merri.'» wharf, Uc
o„ J above l)i •• v foatfg£, oSeMackleatheyTrur.lt,
covued wi ii Itraw marts.;? dmttorfled, makedar
hcttotn
A htihp; a ti-unl: if print-?* Calicoes. If any
a prf<ni Cj -.v re.'pedis; laid'
P UiinV, r? fljßafctfatfirr an jfclijiriau iip-
J, V i'u»"w owner.' '■ "-tJF* v
' - 4,
' ■ vv ? -
Dslunntor of Draw dig—from I.onciori y
( vVhtfre he has (tudied fcveral years under oii«j ot
the mofl cmineiit tuaffej s in fti£3ce)
| T.NPQ&M.S his friend.-*, that he has rc-cmimrnc.-
J -«■ ed his private tuition.—Ternu, as ui'aal, Six
- :)o!iars per mooth, for attendant three times a
week. LiUwife, all kinds of Ornaroen-ral Paitit-
Uig. frdit. ffowei-Y&c. taught oathfi aboye tefias. •
"7 . his terms will foe particu- '
V J»W advantageous t0 jfcfe that employ him,"a;
♦ he nukes no additional charge if there arc'two
pupiii in onefamdyir
» , A to W. H. left at the office qfihrs 3
C.'jrftte, will be immediately attended to. <■
> -H :a "y.g-. . ;»»
Just Publi'hed,
Acd to be had at the Book-ttores of \fetTrs. Drfs
50Lamthlll, Young and Ormroo,
in Philadelphia,'
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cause, and Cure of Remitting or Biifious *
Fevers.
To which is an /Jxed, o;
AM Ato TRACT oi the opinion.* an J praduce of ■ ■
difter.int author*: and an APPENDIX, e-xhib-
fa&s and. rjfid&ionsrehtive to
th«
ha? occlfiofced fd niuch di Arc/sand aiortaliry, at
1 ditfercr.: in k'vcr»Lof the fcat?ort towns
. ivwlamSßnr -1
rclWw ct he i biUdaphta College of Physician. r
and Member of the American Philosophical So- £
rci
To be fag
The time of a Negro Man, '&
Who has three year; to lerve ; he is a good host- u ,
ier, or coachman, apd with tome attention would •
mate an excellent Cook. He is fold for no faults,
udt for want of con ft ant employ. The price for
his time, to prevent nee'dfetienquiries, is £.30.
Enquire at No. 88 Sprude-ftiect.
At said placi may be had a few tons of choice
fir ft crop Hay.
ift month 9th. *
TO E£ LEiT,
And poSedion given the iflfanuary, t
rheHoul'e No. 107, Arch-street,
Naar the corner of Thir-i'street.—For Turther
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 83, Vine
street. I«s
All Perlons
Having any demands agamft the Estate of the |no
late Captain George Irwin, are reqnefied to f ref
-♦ bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or si
before the firft day of January next tnfuiug % e
and tiiole who 4re indebted to said eflate are so
to immediate payment to
•»AkAH litvVlN, Adminiitratrix.
»ov.t 9 o A
James C: cjf Samuel W. Fillier,
at the:r stoke,
Wo.SfT; canst of Arch and Front flreets,
H.iVE TOR SAJ.K, Z
Cotton and worsted H;.fic'ry in trunks,afTorted
A iew balea red, white, and yellow Flantels J-i.'
pittb futty roniall Handkerchiefs ufy.''
Ditto Fulficat (ilk ditto i&S,
Ditto Fonclicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetifs
4000 pieeiss Nankeens, and
Few chefii btA Flyfon T-.-a Rnm
Af>—tsoo boxes best London Window GUf-, Nu
from Sby6, lo by x 4 _and 15 hhds. Gtai-
Ware, iwiotted, which they will difaofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
November «8.
NOW"LANDING, ~~
At South-street Wharf, J&g
'Jbe Cargo of the Ship Concord\
Captf.n Thompfou, from Bitavia. . ,
AbcUt joo tons firft quality Java Coffee (the , C j iT '[
Whole havinp h««n wefted) 1 3<J p of
8a tons Java Sigar, in caniflers and bag-s 1 "J
K Isgures of ofj Arrack ° board '
I.u inegs, Mace and Cloves
fox lALE BY " OV
PETER BLIGHT. F (
JVBi aTJo ojjers For Safe, fii
Jua lindtdfrom ihip Amity, from Jamaica. .
aoi hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do, do. Rum. ' {(©&
novemher 2,;. d6w i : £¥t
A per fori well acquaintedwith
the theory an JpraJliceof book-keeping, who hasbeen
many ye«-ieiigag;d inbufuiefstorhinifelf and others,
woalj be glad to be employed, either as an agent A f
or faclor; or in poflmg books ; stating unsettled tnjh
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or Eogliih, *mim
A note adirefi'ed to J. A. and left at this office,
vvill be punctually attended to. « f ,
november 3 o. 3 awtf
House and Lots, in Botxientpun. fto - r >' bi
"ro BE SOLD, a handsome two dorr House. orch^
X frith the l»ot on which it is erefted,' fituatcd '" wnft:
■shout the middle of the beautiful and healthy I ?
Village of Bardentown. Fhe house is forty two ~ ™? l 'l
J«ct tront, ant! in neat order The lot contains vV*".'
fane acre, and is one hundred feet 011 the main ,
hreet, and exte.ids with the fame breadth toback £ * nce
ltrcet. A'fo, a large Lot, containing nearly joar fr
icrvs, Separated from the former by back itreet. >rT
One third only of tlie purchafc money will be re.
quired upon execwhtg a deed, and ior the re- Wj'fM.t
niaindcr. Inch crc ft v.-.U be given as the purchal'e 2 , £'
er nnychufo. This property will be fold free «. e '
all and an iudifputable title eivenf r ! ng b '
For larther particles enq'ui.e either cf Dr. R ' cl "" 0 "
Wn.uni uuincs, rcfldtng in tiordentowe, near,
tile [ remises, who w/i;i shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON, . c
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street. A 1(
December 2.
—a
FOR SALE, DeOgal
fl
Enquire of the Prin'-r arc
* r '.
I
4
lake, For Savannah, .
n board TO SJIL THE FIRST (fpENIXG,
matter, J he f,ft fa.ling ihin
%*£ SWIFT PACKET, ■
It any -■ " Marlfcjsj-ve. r— a.-- I
;ngfaa c9n:nodi!ioa» S», pafren-.; —For fei „H- '
h:> up. '-<hev!-aA,r ..,' . ?'■ P
fcU; .* ?7-
lUcct.; ■ nt ;t. 1
4t _ '"bo pave on fjitr.d, and for Sale, 1
Pr.mc R'ce, in whole an.-! V!f tierces, Georgia f
and CVftyu ladig*,: Mobiles is tktU, -fcolAtis 1
f&n, ' wi '"' §<■<■ ,
one of eteiuber if 3taivtf.
e) ~ !
tmsno- Wanted to Cliarter,
*■'" A Br ' :ifh veflel, fifte. n hundred E
T?.** 4 t0 two thoufciid five huadrcl bar
•;lt" burthen.
articu- .; ( j\.. .
im, as a iter flight,
re two WHO HAS For sale,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipe-, and hogJJBa
gf fhrs «!<• o! 'l London Particular Madeira, fit tor imme- C,
cia.-eufe, in pipes. ,
jaw December io w - '■
f or Charieftoru
Dob " J - . THE SHIP r,
' . , ven us,
W"!S ™tar/ «/ Mejfrs. Pentti j
iilious ~* ~' OH£ will take Freight on very I
low terTti«, and fail the firit ! fc
opening,——Apply to the matter on board! or to 'S
u:e .f f Jos. Anthony S3 3 Co.
. Detember ,8 s •
ive to - i j is J
vhich For Amsterdam,
ov.ns . J~y. The Ship '.-'-3 pj
- FARMER, 1 -
ri™. J° u " V'Ccrrtori, Matter ;
li s" fei! in a few a»y«, the
■ " y_ part of \er cargo being *
_2_ ready. For freight of fifty tons cf Coffee, orpaf- thij
sage, apply to tire matter on board, at Walnut- dec,
ttreet wharf, or to '
U1 J° H N SAVAGE. tM
■ouH 11 Elnd,n ?> Olll of the fj » d Ship, from Bour- hoh
i t deiui, and Foi 1 Sale, t
e for Claret in hhds. 'Oft
°- White Wine in quarter casks 2
Claret in cases, of a fupierior quality 1? n
loice Fentiniac,"")
Sauterne, ( Wines in cases i ♦.K er '
Lunille, ) e» h:
Prunes in boxgs an d
novemher 24. - out t
et, For Londonderry,
" ' THE BRIGANTINE • , and
"me , breei
suket,; ; -
William Whittim, Matter. pent.
*■-'-*-{2*vw A ftronggood veflel, about two, is lik
the hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a said i
to f r « at part of her cargo engaged—now lying at have
1 0 r Willing and Francis's Wharf. I'or freight orpaf- Susa
ing % e > apply to the captain, or land,
so JOHN SKYRIN, N.
Landcnbergetr*j -wharf. J ll
Who wants to Charter. - -
I A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
r> § PC
For Sale or Charter, j
x 'irk The Snow
ed .GOOl) HOPE, A*
Will carry about 15,00 barreU,and . '
.» ready to take in a targo. For terms. .
apply to P aJ
n „ « flcetch
rragers of Co.
.... , No- 151. Secend-ttreet. !u / " ,c
v. ho have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar a„d ' ' r
Rnm, Madeira, Lifhon, a:;d TwieriCe w'ne —am.
f s | November 7. 0
Q - * countr
For Liverpool, sor T Th, h ; s
_ JC**' The copper bptiomed Ship
Kanibur g Packet,
r Captain Sixas Sw iik. 3iftDei
, A Lar g c proportion of her in the
cargo being ready to go on olher ''
board, is expeficd to fail on cr about Sanday the W "
e 3d of DecrmWr. affonm
For Freight or PalTage. apply to the Captain en ! U oua
board, at Walnut ,greet Wharf or to ,an
PIJiLIP NICKLIN £3- to. WelMr
novemher 12. x- r ,
For Savannah, in Georgia, and T' m
_ THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm, Ml
- A ne !» veffei, With excellent | Oli
accommodations for pa.Tengers | W1
Sails on the io:h of December, for Freight or <
1 Passage, apply to ROSS {s* SIMsON. -A'
' Who have to Jifpqfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
To be fold, A f
A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- - ■'
X A- ing 6 acres and 4= perches, with a neat two
fto/y brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple Infcrn
townfh'n f M tUate °V he trad lane ' in r ' hc books, v,
townftip of Movamenfing, about one mile from tionfince
the C:ty of Phi.aJelpma. Further partkulars will ult. and
.1 ot 1 *! 2 c UF "' n a PP' ,c " ti<sn at the office of open as
-he Gazette. [t ~r tun
1 ne improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, (land unrivalled. ,
December r. dtf P) " hd
The Subscriber intends to make an '
application'for ihe ienewa) of a Certificate ofa Share
"> 'he Hank cf the United States, (landing ir. the / me "JT/II
hi "'I; da;cd ]■■*'■¥ 1707- the fame Win
l&Sirfe.. JO«SGH«UM. *-«
- and Brok;
ROSS & SIMSON, 3SSJ
HAVE FOR SALE, ingai.de:
A few bales Baftas, CoiTas, and ' v ; > ' :
a qu:ntit,y cf bengal COT lON r '"" W
bengal SUGAR, in Las, ai.d boxes
Jamaica, "5 bn,o:l -
St. Vincent-, ( RUM. , ~N " ,!
and B,. n gaj (
300 casks RICE, rnd ,
A y.rce! of Ihip building RED CED.\«, ' Pv H '
Cei. IX. X ' » ,
y november
NrcKUN & Griffith,
G > .-if ttteir n.n Wilmi Street Wharf—
■ • ■ » •trt.fS FOR S-.LF, I
E i, -
5." u -w» ian ii.dj
V:Jnv J^
kij-ac f? ' .
*.**
i L .' 1 . './» v.uK•!>-, u:<pi-AnL.
P-- ■' '■ f-ie ti* it.t W"<;!^liiiiia m<CTf
••'••-«• V*,!,'- Ui-.t ei . .
, ' 'Slack boitlrj
Je ® r /^ a Q»*na vare ia bhds. and crates
:n»;£fs Yellow ochredr ? in calks ;
wtr. at New-York, onboard thfe
AN A.^roroiiverpjol,exnfJlcd roua<i
as ioon as tfie navigation is open',
iadred F j^Livcr pC oJSa;t ''
* bar- Co j'- ~ r ,
f>pani!l> Bro.wq ~i a 1
Venetian. Ked | ,
Pmple Brown ! PAI . V _ C
'« Patent white j
V.'hite lead
Red lead J
mrne- Colcotharvitriol
i&o bundles/Sheathing paper
f w Seaming tw'ne
Ship Diana, | -
r 3 ' e ° r 1
"rnti' J ja#>SJfc. also,
efirit I Brig Amazon. a
late firm of PiiiTpNicklin b' Co. '■
§ is now changed to
NICKLIN 4sf GRIFFITH.
January. i. ' _ _ _ .eoutf •'
, l > hila|>ehjhia& L*nc-.-' v Turn
r* pike Company. ®
tke Jtnuary 4, 1798.
eing At a meeting of the Prefidmt and Managers, R.
pal- this day, a dividend of<j dollars per
nut- decland for the lajl half year, which, nuut.be by
them retained, fan the payment of the debts as
(he Company, agree able tan refilution ofthe Stack- ..
our- holders the 11th funelafl. - 1
. f TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer '■!
Ofthe LancaJler\Tur»pikeCom'py. tu .
January's m&wy w pe '
Ran away the 25th of Decern- of
ber . 1797. allegro Mas, aboutj feet sor 6 inch- J
es high, of a yellow complexion ; wien spoke to ed
and called by his name he taaaquiclc (harp look „<•
$ - out °f his <-7 e « and (hews the white of them very w ,
ate, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth- att .
arid close bodied coat, a ftiiped v.ft, nankeen , '
breeches, silk stockings and ruffled shirts, and a
number of other cloaths. Tht said Negro under
flaads farming, and is a pood ihoemaker and car- p K
r. penter ;he can read and write tolerably well—lt 1
wo, is likely he may forge a pass. VYhoercr takes up ■ —'
, a said negro and secures, him, */o thatlget him, shall
at have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the iubferiber,
as- Susannah Mbdford, living in Still £ond, Mary
land, Keut coonty. ' A
N. B. The above Negro is 29 years old.
; January 2. Liv
— cea;
THE AMERICAN LADIES' I I ,r "
POCKET-130OK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED "
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, fou^h'ecoild-fircet—comaining f
AN elegattFronti'(f>ie eflfthc Marejuis delaFav- '
etie, aud his Fiinily, in the callle of Olrn'utz, I
u with an iUuttratiou ; being »n account of the pri'nei
* pal cvent4 in the public lue.of the Matquis. with a
(ketch of tut fuffWings of himfelt and his uoloitunatc
Uinily. A complete Almauack— 104 ruled paa £s
■or «nfiwpw»ilum», observations, Sec. alio,(or account
|d <<f m mlej paid and received for every day i„ the yr-ar
—a malting and 01 her ufefui tables—general meet
nigs of frienfls—Lilt of births, dea h», &c —new
countiy dances, poetry, enigmas, 8a . See.
~ ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual l'ocke! .Remembrancer,
for 1/9,B—co»t_inilig an A,lmanack ; 104 rulcn pigcs
for mtm-jrandums ar.d cafli.acco.jnt j Duties pa. able At
on goods import, d into the United Sta-es. Custom- mapr
t.«fe fee?, &c. (lamp duties, to take ploee oftcr the De
3 Ift Dec niber;» lift afibepoft towns and croli-roads
r - m the . United 2tatcs; avarieiyof uTefu! tables, jr.d I
n other interesting matter.
e cortf.jntly keeps tor (ale, a genera!
aliortment of Merchant's account Books, and other
a 01181 y goods, and makes to order books of any To
lize ,and ruled to any pattern. (Jay 11
«>£i e ? an . t Ma P s ' 6n Rollcrs > 81 >d a large Chart of the back .
Weft-fndtes. dreet
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards,
and An » c »ca' l - Dec. 2 7 —« y.
Imported in the brig Eliza^
Capt. HAsT rE, front Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Lafes of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in balked of bottles each Cut
White and coloured Kid Gloyes, ' Floori
<fo. do. Silk (j 0 , Oakur
A fiiw pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy Shoem
Per Sale ly ' AJfo—
JAMES 1 ATIMKR, j, jn . Tom
7J»South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale, Al! '
A few <jr. Caf.es .Old Sherry Wme "
Dec. ~.w a
The iSublcriber, J mas, 2
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his - L> "'
books, whidt have been kept open for their infpec- IIDDC
°n (lt;cc Oecymber 1796 ire Jbalaaced to the 5 rft
ult. and will during-the present month -.emair ,
open at h re UmmtiHg-hoafe in Chefnut Street for 0m !
the.r further invelligition end strut ny.
JAMES GREiiNLE'i.F. Board
Philadelphia, J .n. iti-tpl. Irifii r
Canal Lottery— No. 11. SaWr
ryil.L commence drawing Men !»y, the 20th
' Ui!i. Tickets for SjtJe in thkj.otttry, at ol,„ rrv
Seven Dvllars, .at Wll. BLACKBURW. J.otterv n
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Sec<jnd->.reet— .° ta
1 'Ckets in the Schuylkill Bndge at <T m Fimenl
Joi.ars, where cluck Hooks are kept lot refiker- 4000 b
mg a.-.d eiamiving in these, thj City oi Aus
toil, No. il. and Paterfon Lotteries, and iaiorma-
ticn where tickets niay be had in most of the Lotte
ries amhoritsd by la-.v jn any of the States of the
Union. y\_ j
i ir'' l 3' ,r^ C - °*l a Broker, in bayin'g and an Offici
I|l.ll: K a., 01 Public .Stock wd Securities, a large (
difcounti ;g Bills ana Notes of Hand, f,!e «f a boi
-.ands, Houses, &c. Kc. will be duly atte: ded to, Finh-f-r
l ' y , , Wm;' :-N. Hovd
nbvatiLcr ic. r
J -J 07c.
"> 1 0 Be Sold,
_ i i - - \ .-L\ to the last will aid t?f
J- X ttii,u mH. vsHAii, and poif f
a vtluable property ia Arch
icreri, • «v-.eu .'bird and Fourh ft.se:s, consist-
Kigcf the i.i>iilt, ho. with the lot on which
Vuc.eJrd, aiiatk, and other im-rH.-nn:. 1
cl'tils 1 W "-o few front, lad. tonnuu -U:.V.,jc
:t . i . - ; • bfesc'thi- the
■piiW n, ,rXtr»li"»fi y»t». ±4
X't * 1 v/ vral&£ orim, l-otn tvm punjw,
J ! 1 J P rr l • iii- flzb-j lUud* ob the r«ir of
the let w:il accomna«diitc four LorC* and a car- -
r.age. T:;n praperty eajoystlie perj^tuafnrivdege
oi a 26 feet CQSrt arc an alley, S feet wids.eitcud
! . v/- lr K to ChKry Street. Itsireiirral pqfition anj t.he
I We I a 'ivaiitage, it poiTeflVs with re%ciit to free veritija
roua<t tla "' r ' n^ ,;r ' <t well worthy ths attentios of ajjy
f , i n ' i3jin S t0 polTcfsan eiif -Lli orcrpartv inJ^bi
lade.'ph.a, •
For further particulars cfttaire at No Sf, Vine
. Street—of / '
* JluBiKT Ht-YSHA-M,
or ' >AiSing Ex^cMtors.
I'ftApcis Bowes Sayrb, j
January 11 j • I
■ JuJl received 'a Frejh Supply.
English Grammar,
The second edition) zvith iinprovjmffi/s,
J\ DAP I £jj to the iiifTerei>t ciafles of learners;
J- \ with an iippt.idix, containing rui s and o'j- j
; fer jMipafrfor the more advawced tludeiits -
!to wlrt-j with' pcrfpicuky and
- By XJNDLEV MURRAY.
" iin*, is a ;-ur>Jicatiuij of i;;ucn m :ri:, an i fully t
a&fweu (he pioloflionb in J he a
dix iomc of the belt rules for Wft&g c .
;tod with propriety, ;fjat we rccoileic to S
■J Co. ik'.vc 1 cn." j
b.iOhthly Review, July 17.964 f
"1. ** Gr-.inii7i.:r on dccon.'if> entitled b
Si : i}&icioul)y f«it«sb'ed ; its arjrov-*jncnt
rU" :.nd ..cil a«Jaj>tjsd t,> the purp of in«
ai;>i ii't exprcfllon is lunple, j)vr4j>icuous
and accurate, ac,." B
3. See the c heir otter at large in the Analjtical a
{erj, Review, July 1796. c <
was p
h ts% Englifli Exercises,
■ OC t : - -Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by t(
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of c<
the parts of inftancesof falfe orthography, p
, violationsof the rules of fynrax, defects in punc- ~ t
I PJ' tuation, and violations at the rules relnc»sling
if!— perfuicuity and accuracy, designed f»r tie benefit
q}_ P r ivitc learners, as well as for the use of l'chogls.
n k " We ' lave ' rccß muc h pleased with the pcrufal
"J " of these Exercises. They occupy with diflinguifli
° ed excrllence a mpft important place in the fciencc
00 " of the English language; and as such, we can
["7 warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
i*'". 1 Schools, as well as to all those who are defiroui of
0 attaining correetnefs and precision in their native
ten tongue."
j er . Monthly Review, Jnly 1797. «
Tbe above Books are for sale at
—lf Crukshanks book ft ore, No. 87, Market ftrect.
January It.. .
N -O t ITI __
'ryl H
A LL.perfons who have any demand*agiiuft
ths eflate Fleev/tood, of ner
t Liverpool, late of f-hiladelpjiia, merchant, de- ]
ceased, are to exhibit their accounts,
properly aitelled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to rnake immediate
• payment, to
GEO.DOBSON, }
No. 25, 30. Third-ilr.ett. \ Ad »" n 'J ir ■■ -T}.
Japuaiy 4. ' dtf
iv- FOR S j!. ~ ~ ~ EH: ''
By JOHN MlLLEß,'ji'n. Co.
"'* No. 8, Clvdi:ut-fti.:,;t ' jj, r j
lte One htmared and eighty bales of t
;« GOODS, 1,1 "
lit ' n
Amongst which are, Er
,r Gurrahs Mamooxiies °
p u r-V o ctira
w tus —f—
nahg Taiifla Col Tics
Giizzi- En:ertics ]
:r f liiucXZlloths Galiroes
rs Pajampoprs P.omail Handkeichiefs \°*
le Amon«(ii jhem are a^£r*jiL;prx>^««rtion *>f the A..
i- rnutaAuics-of Patna. W2I
ie December 1. J Eile.-
d' Employ,meu.t for the Poor. "" d n
ji Sprit
FLAX tor SPINNING, .-Hon
y To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth vice
clay morning, between the .hours of 10 an 1 12— *
c back of no. 51, louth Fifth flr?ct, ahove hpruce- no
street. eodiw ~~
1
Pr.ifon iVj an ufactory. Fr on
FOR S.JLS, 80
At thePrifon of the City »nd C«unty of Phlladel- I»
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, trom to *pdy
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddie and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwcpd """
Shoemakets and Saalrrs Thread
AJfo—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and Jiea^i{tones, hearths, chimney pieces' Nn
platforms, slabs, facia, window lica.<(, fills, c . j\ u
All which may he had on reafoaable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving dat.e at said f'rifon at -j'-a !
a moderate price.
Orders from a difiance, direSed to Daniel Tho-
mas, agsrt lor the prifpn, * >U be attended to. j
jliecemttr 26 • _ t mth6m the H
Imported Co ">"
Benjamin Shewell, Matter, ' ' i nftru
From Bourdeaux, and farfale by the ftiMcriber, «
No. ii Walnut St eel. ' «<
Bourdeaux Brandy "J •< a( f o
Irifit market claret in cases I Entitled to Print■
Medoc.winc, in do. j Drawback. Dec
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrtyd. ,
WHO HAS FOR SALE. JOJC,
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks r '
Rota do. do. led,
I lmento in bags olltaini
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait. notice.
Aug. 24. tut&stf- a,Trf ?
I -—— ply wi
TO LET, tli'
A front Parlour, suitable for
an OIT-cr ; a Room, i or unfunr&ad ; and
a large Cellar, which VJ-li f.rve either lor fle'rege
or a bott ill-cellar. Enquire at Jno. 24, "otltl.
X' mh-ttreet.
Hoarding atid I.ortJing to' I e had- Enquire a- a
°7t - Jan C.-'n Dc'ee
Yv at-Office of the United States,
r, ; n " r ; e / Junvary ibt ,si, 1-08.
£&£* W H l REAS f " u * ha - be " ftiS. . .
? *rln • Wwaau for Bttuv.y L«.<s, c'u
' tt- i w the »«>a of the la:e Cci.tir.eEt «!
■l ra '^ P-'x-Kl™ of forjjcdhiirruauct..
1 ■ " &**«'«»»« fi«K mrpjfiritrs, it hit It en
tS£Z 7™;** ; , tf '" dt * ir p^vKa,iMg<bk*i
Wither in tfc«r own r ghc, a,
r^^ cSr£f '. Tf . «#1 vitWt of'*:, imlrumect
. ~-u . !> «.laired to io.waro t.Vir
uTlc"t 3§Slft v.4.m- to the W 4 r Office. uur b.-fc a
i.rivdere «« <» -r rhat fuel:
• ext- d Aly and deter.
QliiltdUPOq.
•
» from the War OiW wi!j
Vin °hi ' > lL? f?™ } anJ >» addition to what it requir.
• ''.'t-MmJet, tjw oart.fi w;e o) t he acbww
-5? Vine • aDc «dor Power if Attorney, mtiil
■ - a.oft t filpi the place ol residence and occupation
or person mating fach a-lcnowled--
3Knt; and when the pi oof of pertoiial knowleci".-
sCMtors. .is by 4 witnef. o K wittjeflts,. thdr plate or placet of
' _ | :c ' i "Ce muli be.set Icrth in like niiijyer'
i I JA&liiS V'; !EN.< V, Sec'yofWar. .
\fily. - Ja "-' _ Jsw
13 A L L.
, Francis «jliy i;'.forms bkfcholars.und
' j ~l a, .y ,c 111 S tn "r»i, tfjac hi* lccon.l »r«&isr,g
and oh |T'v' '-' S lh «:!-aythe jitkat th;* new Ai-
Vta CD- Jertilly .South tfou/th JtreSt.betwe;n Cbefnut
•tiicents and Wtfftot Stmt- icicts to bthad by ap.
i>:ywjt U :he fchuUrs.o,! Jfr-ancis, or at .h-s
, Strict,—Gentlemen's ,
•'-% tickets oned'olfar cac.l, to be bad of Mr. Pi &tu,
appfin- atlhi. Academy, or ,t hivhoiijfe.
thjg e- "'r. 1 r.i.:.'i s jiliLivn, w. :.• Su6fcr!b<* to th«.
i.ecc to be tOt Halls. to#t iliennt vvi!i be or- fiitlday th«
I rtofe C.bferiKr» who hrce not yet teecivciX
7.961 their tickets aie'tequeC' dto appjy for theia as a
■ntitleH bovr.
? rfrr eyntfcii,„ 0 u , ta t e gchoiirs as tifual,
Jr
>kuou> The uwners ot the Brigantine
Mercury, Wi:!iam Uron, ir.after, captured by
•Ijtica! a s l«r.iih privateer and (old at Centa in last De
ceHil.tr, (nay receive interesting; information rel"-
peiting her, by applying to the Department of
:■* The Printers in the sea port townt of
e y the United StJtes will render a service to the
ion o concerned, by the above in tbeir newf
rpt'cy: e ?:. u«..,.
caing tor bale by the Sublcriber,
.enefit I 0 bales Coffas
i e ; 40 rfo. Uaftas
II do. Mamoody
cuncc 7 Jo- Tiobtry
: ca " a do. Gorahs
rs °, do. Maracnjneees
>us .° 3 do. Chech Stripes
13t,ve I do. Guzzie
I box Hiapers
W' * 7 do. Umbrellas ,
££ 2 \^:;lr 9 T u Madeira w;ne ' as
- mordecai LEWIS.
Pecsmßer $.
- J 3aw4w
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few thefts of excellent quality, For Sale cur
3, of ner of Second and Pins ilreets. '
, de- Derember 16. r
jnt<j ——- —— eo/f
bted .trench Gt^cvlatirijr Librar**
iiitc ■ 0 '
JOjETH E. G. M. De La GRANGE
?>.. ' No. no Wall]ut-ftr(*: , ■
• ; | KFORMS those. who will] t0 rcc ' ur t0 thc .
1 B)ca " s of , tfoming perfeA in the'Frtrcli 1 an^
fS e,t f Ut V>f °P° ned hii L»M«v, con.
..fting of upwar.ls 01 1 ; ?0 volumes, the best ca!.
culated to ufeful ialliuelion, or plea
ff'rL IK" WftAt,pn '' to g-«h«r with a catalog,o
nj ''' " Uy b8 feeo at cvct y book-feller', >
n| b All translations from and mto the French
c Jraci and r - "'k Lart S fflat,« 8 t, « ««u:ec with a«.'
cjnrac ? and diipatch. CRlm
for sale; ——-
By BENJAMIN CLARK
- s ,Vr, 55, -he corn rof Chefnut and Front llreet
.he A .large quantity of Clocks and
F |^ ct "- a geoeral aiTortment of Tooh
L- and . confining of Clock Move
ments e.ght day and thirty hot, r hrafs
and f.rge work; Bells, clock aad witch DiT
,bnrmg6, Hands, Olaffe., 'Puttice Stone' F™
gotten Stone, Cat Gut'; wt nlnd 'and tll
xeh TV 4 S ' Pbers,Chains,seal 5) Keys, &(. be.
- * Apprentices Wanted,
r cc " k f&tutf
- Landing this day,
1 rom on board , th '' fch , o oncr Two Friends, Dan
s , ie Cra *!ey, Master,
oo nnos-anu v t .
ej. 1 j pipes 5 Jamaica RU!VT }
TOR SALE Br
Gaange Latimer Son.
uovemher 9. r
FOR~SALE77t —
c :> vr Wm - Young's Book Store,
0 EPORT n o/ f r h Ct r COrntr °W»«a^cet,
K D } ot , the Committee of the House of
-"»Ss2rrsS?2g£ys 7--
- jS55r«
Uiiited -.nes, impeached of high,crimes and mis
f m " <ie!n P ursuance °< a refolutior of
_ the Houfu of Roprc-fentatives, awthorizi,-•, t h e f a a
, Commit tee to fit curing the recefv of Contrcfs ar 1
them " to enquire, and bv Ej J
1 means, to difoever th,%.hoie Mature £
'«oant;;^ c c c h : her 4l vX'f Biou " it
" affociatea therein«d
0 %TJXrt r **
"notice.
To holders Of JAMES GREEN LEAF',
TXcA R ? FOX ' S E ■
JN cbflfequcste of mam- w "
led, from late unavwdable circpnilanee. from
to fo.mlr
ru "' ts now 'K'orm'thein. tliev
Hv dim'"" , th ' 10 <!lole wl '° may &Z
- , It, a flays at No. 8 Chefnut Strir't
a..dtnofe who -ionot, will he confer cd as rc.'
. .Sfeetr claim on the Aggregate LVjJ
provided lor their payment. PU ™
1 IIENRV PRATT,
MAS W. FRANCIS,
' JOHN' MILLER, JUN
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACQ3 U.\K£H.
iicce©!itr i?, i.
['Volume Xi'." J laws and 11
'jO# ***♦ «p ubsic ,^la,
' ■ —— j foi;r-anrl-t
-jr H jn~n *1 p :■ 1
FRIDAY CTEm.IO,
1 " 1 may be f:
Fro® the Virginia Gi«tw. (speedy cc
i Them:
INTERCEPTtO I-E tTeR ; republic 1
Pa,..,
• oWEylu'w.Wn.ftorHketch of ihe.au.. j
aeopyrf ' I
to one or W whoo,
uL U vou and Mr. BtCKLEY, .If 1^"
L ,c yaar mferung it in BACHED m
. a _j ,( you 1 lite wife »pp"> v< i 1 No. .
paragr.pl. excepted, ioo rt«d of tU plen'ipot
wl weep yo, [ he h P on ,
eoutSeof cveou, whereuy 1 e c . the not*
may be more eorreftly informed of the him by
the Revolution than tbey hereiofore ave ee French
be." from the Engl,* pr-rt. The chaJ, Wha
*' tiom a yomh in Faris to his fnwd u» Ph. ad p s ,
varied, f.om lome o.her deftn-y,
Bordeaux, th« te may not appear to te a .egular a re f U fa
, 1 -A *A us vou please, Cor as ation c
, hing! ,W ,n that refpea aft a, you p a ,,
t-uth. only will be eommumeated «1 w«
ance it i» imaterial wh« the cooj.ftu Ps j
be only ennjefture. t J lc
. 'you promlfed me a : cannot you yet
ss we lhall be very He I
, r a will certainly make your time » eomfartab ea. of the
*«>*. Uvourab^M^
,Othe l.ule obje£l of my „ that Li n,,
ydt. and him w'.S hi concert w u. bfeo . No.
neighbourhood, indeed if >ou plenipt
you will arrange matters confidentially wilt. Mr. .
himfelf who likewise polTeffcamine. h aVe ti
, be fi yootoprefentmyrefpefls.o En. WRIT- Q f lord
7£A -«cVs r jnd 4DKA and that you bcl,eve me they a
"inertly, Your fritnd and rcvint. thiOi
JfAj. MONROE. real in
p,, means
~ ' negoci
LONDON. November means
'NEOOdATION A l' OSLF.. lowrtij
itf-.wl DotumtnO Ui h'T're to
(Concluded from yeflerday's Gazette ) tering
Mo 4.?. A. The undersigned miniilers j u ,a c
flenipottfi'tiaiie. French Republic, IT,
c3ffioned to treat of peace w.th England, tertaii
have the honour to affnre lord Malmelbury, lord J.
yninifter plenipotentiary of his Britannic ma- that 1
ieftv, that the French government wilhes as Irene
iiuccre'y, as strongly as ever, a peace defir- q„,t
red by the two nations ; but, unable to con- niller
elude any other peace than such an one as is fy.
founded on thelaws and on the treaties which T
bind th£ French republic, Jteifuaded Mat, Frenc
to arrive at th= 3 end, it is neceflary to ex- accep
plain itfelf with entire franknefs, acd delir- tion.
ous of gitiog the ntgociation the greatest
rapidity, the Executive direflory has ex
prei'dy charged th- undersigned to demand
of lord Malmelbury, whether he has fuftci
ent cowers for leftoring, in the treaty which
T.av be concluded, to the French republic Lisle
and to its allies, all the po.TelW winch F,
Tmce the beginning of the war, have palled N
, into the'bands of the Englilh. pote
' The undersigned are cqualy charged by ( hone
the Executive direaory todemandfrc.ro lord j whi<
Malmelbury an answer in the course of the Frei
da*. They request him to accept the ailur- day,
antes of their highest consideration. gem
(Signed TREILHARD cam
1 b BONNIER. ing
Lisle, srj Fruclidor, sth year of the 1
Republic, Sept. 15, 1797- . J» r
By the miniilers plenipotentiajv 01 the der
French Republic, the Sec. Gen. que
DERCHE. Ed,
No '4 B. The undersigned tuiniller folc
plenipotentiary to his Britannic majesty re- are
ceives with great fatisfaftion the exprefflop in
of the sincere delire for peace which the nil- cxt
nifteri plenipotentiary of the French republic aul
ani.owncod to him yellerday in the name of tio
their government . He lias the honor to as- his
fui- thepn that the King his mailer is am- ru]
mated with the fame desire, and has nothing he
more at heart than to put an end to the ca- co
lamitics of the war. . rel
With regard to the quellion which the ot
miniilers plenipotentiary of the French Re- to
public addrelted to Lord Malmelbury, con- ve
cerning the extent cf his full powers, he m
considers himfelf as having already givennhe th
mod unequivocal answer upon this fnbject, to
in the two notes which he delivered to their w
predecelfors on the 1 Jth and 24th of July. hi
However, to avoid all mifundeTllanding, fa
he renews the declaration which he made tr
ycfterday ; that i* to fay, that he neither p
tan nor ought to treat upon any other prin- N
ciple than tha* of compeufationa.; a princi- u
which has been formally recognized as 11
the balls of a treaty cqual'y just honorable, t
and advantageous to the two powers. _ e
Lord Malmelbury rrquells the miniflers r
plenipotentiary of the French Republic, to [
accept the assurances of his high confidera- (
(Signed) MALMESBUR Y.
Lisle, Saturday Sept. 16th 1797*, 10 a. m.
No. 45, C. The miai.lers plenipotentia
ry of the French republic, commifiioned to
treat of peace with England, have the ho
nor to acknowledge the receipt of the answer
of lord Malmeft-ury to the note which was
presented to him in the conference of yefter
it appears from this answer, and from the
two notes of the 15th and 24th ( >£ July to
wliirh it rtf*rs, that loid Malmelbury ban
not p iwers fcr agictin>; to the Ve'HttutSot. of
all the possessions which bis Brittannic ma
jesty occupies, whether from the French re
public or from its allies. '
In confcqueuce, while they reiterate to
•ioi'd Malmelbury the tr.oft positive allurances
of the fentiment3 of tbe French government
the undersigned appri/.e him of a decree cf
the Executive directory, whicb lignifies,.
that in cafe lord Malmelbury fliall (declare
himfelf not to hive the neeeffary power: for
.«treeing to attVue flt&uiipflS t,ie J 0 ' j;
I l"xs and treaties which bind the Frenc i ie- o
I public maiw indifpcnfable, he flwU reWM»« Sept. 2.
| four-anrUwenty hours, to his court, to a„>
JSTfiSSc-t powers - Lord MJmeJbury I had
lean fee in this derei mination of tne i'-xtcu- je y yo
i tir directory nothing elk than a, intention you bw
i to hasten tbe ihoinent when the Hego:niK>n '
' | may be frilowcd up with the certainty of a of the 1
, of tV-French dt numt
; republic requcP. lord Malmelbury to accept from L;
I the aiTuranceof thefr high canlVamJi.jti- ' u
,! (Signed) TREILHARD y«'*W
II I (b ' 130NNIER. fed ,^. t
,d • Ey tlie mini Hers pler.ipotenvir.ry, the lordlhip
' X . fee. gen. of the legation, in tnc 1
0 DERCHE. were p
*- lisle, 3c Fruftidor, s th year of the y.°4 *>
'« republic, CS-p' l(S ' 1 ?97-) . .. c , ,a -^ >l
I No. '46, D- The underlined mioifter the trd
plenipotentiary of his Britannic majesty has that in
r<r e the honour to acknowledge the receipt of during
" the note of this day, which has been sent whjch
him by tbe rr,millers plenipotentiary of the to it» t
r French republic. . . , As '
' Whatever regret he may experience a. thcrati
,u " feeing the hope of speedy conciliation thus the Ir
' " destroyed, he can return no other answer to ordinal
jlar a refufal so absolute to continue the negoci- and eo
raa ation on grounds which appeared to have notes,
been already agreed upon, than by derna.nd- to tran
dit ing the necelfary palfyorts for hirafelf and note,
suite, in order that they may set off within yottrk
the four-and-twenty hours, and return im- tett.ai
mediately to England. . d
,Ali He requefis the ministers plenipotentiary pole.
« « of the French republic to accept the affuran- -\j (
*nd ccs of hi 3 high consideration. ' '8
,i(h (Signed) MALMESBURY. No.
that Line, Saturday, 16th Sept. p. m. poteni
r No. 47, E. The undersigned mimfters dered
B plenipotentiary of the French republic,com- ctrcur
1 miffiomd to treat of peace with England, erc.fe
have the honour to acknowledge the receipt his m;
VT- 0 f l or d Malmefbury's answer to a note which him.
:me they addrefTed to him this day. w '\ ,
They think it right to observe to him, w'uel
tTiitne"3oes not have *cvzed the the e
E. real meaning of their' note \ that it by no .1 whicl
means contains a refnfal to continue their Fren.
negociations, but, on the contrary, the lly-iip
means for giving them a&ivity, and for tol- | Bi
lowing them up with success, no less defira- I the n
ble to the two nations, than ilj would be flat- unde
tering to the miniilers charged with the con- j tlecli
(lers dust of them.
blic, The French government is so far from en* I maje
land, tertaining the intentions which the note ot J for 11
ury, lord Malmelbury appears to imputu to them, peac
ma- that the 1 miriifters plenipotentiary ps the molt
rs as French republic have received no order to 1 tigta
lelir- quit Lifie, after the departure of the mi- Iny t
con- nifter plenipotentiary of his Britannic majef- I the
as is fy. , .. I " aU
•hich The miniilers plenipotentiary 01 the I him
that, French republic rcqueft lord Malmelbury to Ihe r
3 ex- accept the afltirances of their high confidera- J 1
Jefir- tior,. I ceiv
ateft (Signed) TREILHARD Jby
, ex . v ,V BONNIER. hit!
raand By the miniilers plenipotentiary, the I lelv
iffici- fee. gen. of the legation, I roo
which DERCHE. wh
mblic Lisle, 30 Fruftidor, sth year of the agr
liich, French republic.*(Sept. 161797.) I ble
pafi'ed No. 48. The undersigned minister pleni- j ery
| poteiuiary of his Britannic majesty, has the lon
ed by honor to acknowledge the receipt of the note Jto
-n lord which the miniilers plenipotentiary of the jby
jf the j French republic transmitted to him yefter- 1
affur- day, through the hands of the secretary 1 tin
•general of their legation. He thinks he Ipo
.D cannot answer them better than by fubmitt- j tei
ing to them the following observations. I re<
That having already, by his note, dated I rci
July 24, and in obedience to the cxprefs or- th
of the ders of his court, given aa answer to the Ia (
. Gen. question which is now so unexpe&ly renew- jth
HE. Ed, a quellion, that in appearance relates b<
uiniller solely tothe limits of his full powers (which Inj
efty re- are in the moll ample form) but which does let
prefiion in faft require a declaration of the whole |p(
the mi- extent of his inftruftious ; and not being jtc
epublic authorised to quit the place of his dellina- jh
name of tion without the express orders of the king
>r ta as- his mailer, in any cafe except that of the I g
is ani- rupture of the riegociation ; he ciiuld not jfi
nothing help considering a note enjoining him, in
the ca- consequence of a decree of the executive di- Ir<
reftory, to return to his court in the space si
lich the of four and twenty hours, as ill calculated I d
nch Re- to accelerate the conclusion of peace : ne- 1 r
ry, con- verthelefs, to answer the afurances of tbe 1 v
vers, he miniftets of the miniilers plenipotentiary of 1 f
iven' the the French republic and to teftify his denre J 1
fubjedl, to seize their real meaning with refpec> to J t
to their which he (hould be very sorry to deceive J1
.f July. himfelf, he thinks that it would be more I <
Handing, fatisfadory to meet once more ; and if the 11
ie made miniilers plenipotentiary of the French re- j
neither public Ihould be of the fame opinion, lord
her prin- Malmflbuty would propose that this meet- I
a princi- ing Ihould take place at an earlier hour than I
rnized as usual, in order that he may have time to J
onerable, take such Heps as the result of their confer- I
rs . ences may render neceflary. He desires the j
miniilers miniilers plenipotentiary of the trench re- j
üblic, to public to accept the assurances of his high
confidera- cotifiderr.tion.
(Signed) MALMESBURY.
iURY. Lille, Sunday, Sept. 17, 1797.
10 a. m. No. 49. The undersigned miniilers, ple
lipotentia- nipo'entiary of the French republic, com- '
ifiioned to miflioned to treat of peace with England,
ve the ho- have the honor to acknowledge the reeeipt
the answer of the note which the minister plenipotcri
which was tiary of his Britannic majesty transmitted to
:of yefter- them this morning. Refering to the rotes
addrefled to lord Malmefbury on the 29th
d from the and 30th Fruilidor, and especially to the
ul July to 1 lirll of ycfterday, they agree to the mett
lefbury hat ing which lord Malmelbury appears to de-
Hitutton of fire and propose the hour of noon. ,
tannic ma- They reqntft lord Malmelbury to accept
French re- the affuiances of their high consideration.
(Signed) TREILHARD.
citerate to BONNIER,
e assurances Lisle, Ift complementary
government day, sth year of' the
a decree of FiiiUch republic.
:h lignifies, (17 th s «P I - republic.)
liall "declare By the miniilers plenipotentiary,
power: for j the fee. gen. of legation, DERCHE
I No 56. Dispatch fiont lord.Gje®vijle to . t.mrac juije
lord Maimeftnry, dated Downing ftr«t
<«.'•
I had the honor of laying before h:s im- 'L™*™
lefty your lordlhfps difpatrhes, in which P.O. 52,
you have given an a«d»«»t of the extratir- of the I r
dinarv conduft of the new pkfltpWwUaries trtat of p<
of the French republic, of (lie anfwtis gi- to the not I
v(;n by your lordfiiip tS> their ,'unjuftifiable been bron;
demand, and of your ccnfequent departure me.lenger
from Lille. , theh
I have the fatisfaftion to be able to allure of the_2<;
yoiir lordsiip, that his majesty has been pi.a- lp» oci 11
fed to tkprefs his entire approbation of your tied intent
: lordftiip's judicious and tempeiate condud Continue t
in the 'nnprtcedqnted lit nation, in which you of its con
. weit iiDii of the in which to any ot
yo4 ytlUrMf, both in your ofli- cwnpaubl
cia*. atid'Mn .ytirr conterfations with r c |)iibnc.
t the Frfnili pleaipottiitfafies, 'lis well as of fliould be
is that in which you have conducted yourfelf gagemeijt
,f during'the Whole cotirfe of the negociation, fatlsfy th
it which feetns tuO likely tai be now brought point troi
,e to its close. p never
As it appears, however, that- some fur- timents h
it thcr ahftver will probably be expedled by Lord ,
is the French government to their late extra- red in h
;o ordinary demand, notwithftrtnding the full July, an
i- and eonclufive reply given in your lordflnp't 17th be]
? e notes, I have received the king's command ers nece
r!- to transmit to you the inclosed draft of a b P an . ,fh
id note, which it is his rrajefty's pleasure that of his J
in vo'irlordftiipfhould traafmit to the plenipo- Uircctoi
n- tcirtiaries at Lisle, by a messenger whom T pennefs,
fliall dhea to be in readiness, for that pur- conclu^
Z P ° re '(Signed) ' GRENVILLE. of obtai
Right hon. lord Malmefbu'ry. he cann .
No. 51. The undersigned minister pleni- celTary t
cotentiary of his Britannic majeftyhas ren- plempot
ers dered to his court a faithful accovnt of tie ai p
m- circumstances that have iuterrupttd the ex- o g
id, ercife of. those important funftons which I parua
ipt his majesty has been pleased to eatruft to J
ich him. "His majesty has deigned to honor Tie
with his entire approbation the answers t ]
im, which the undersigned has already made to fideratit
tHc the extraordinary and unexpected demand
no which plenipotentiaries of the I
le ir French republic addrefiVd to him immediate-
the I ly-upon my arrival at Lisle.
sol- I ' But in order to leave no doubt refpefting I
ira- 1 the nature and obj«& of this demand, the 1
lat- undersigned has been expressly ordered to «"•
:on- declare in the oaioeof this court, ot tne
I. That the full powers with which his peace \
en- majesty had thought proper »<? furnilh him 1 iorm
eof I for negotiating and concluding a treaty of! c °Py c
em, 1 peace* are conceived and C3i pre fled in the jt ie >
the most ample form, authorizing the under- to dec
rto I ligtied, fully and without rtterve, to sign a- 1 e o
mi- I ny treaty upon which be might agree with 1 quivo<
ajef- the French plenipotentiaries, whatever its mates
I nature or conditions might be ; contorming j mpot<
the himfelf in all cases to the inftruaions which categc
•y to I he might receive from his court,
lera- I 2. Thatthefe full powers have been re- I ter p
J ceived and recognized as fufiicient, as well lan 1
D Jby the plenipotentiaries with whom he has I rlll g
hitherto treated, as by the direaory them'- ceisU
, the I 1 elves, aßd t'nst there is consequently no \
I room for any new discussion upon a fubjeft j t.arie
HE. which has already been closed by common ter tt
I agreement, and which rooieover.is not ha- I nathf
I ble toany'doubt or difficulty whatever ; ev-1 an
ileni- 1 cry thing which has been hitheito up-1 tou
s the on this fuhjFft, being eAtirely conformable whic
: note Ito cuftomS,long eftablilhed and recognized 'ayui
" the Iby all the nations of Europe.
ester- J 3. That the demand of the dire£lory I ° ns c
•etary therefore in reality, refers not to the full joins
is he I powers of the undersigned, but to the ex
jmitt- I tent of his inftruaions, of which the di- a c
1 reftory could not, under any circumstances avi
dated J require any communication, further than as ut
fs or- I the undersigned himfelf might judge such
:o the I a communication conducive to the fucccfs of V 1
■enew- I the negociation ; and that very far from lXtl
relates j being in a situation to be called upon for a- teni
which ny new explanatiups whatever, the undersign- thai
h does led had every reason to expeft, from the re- ot
whole I peated communfcations which had been made ved
being to him by the French plenipotentiaries, that
leftina- he (hould immediately receive a contrc-pro- gre
e king | jet, o.f a nature to facilitate the further pro- tvvi
of the 1 grefs of the ncgociaticn Which had been but
Id not I suspended for more than two months. wn
vim, in 4. That the bourt of London had good g Ol
tive di- I reason to be still more astonished at the sub- » c( ;
e space I stance of the new demand made vo the un
culatcd I derfigned j. a dematid relating to prelimina- rep
:e : ne- Iry conditions which had been at the ot
of the I very commencement of the negociation,and rar
tiary of I from which the Freneh plenipotentiaries had
isdeiire lin effect departed, by a formal notification
pec\ to los the measures which the dirc&ory were
deceive lin consequence taking for the purpose of
ie more I coming to some arrangement with their al- L
I if the I lies.
-nch re-I 5- That it is therefore only by £on lent
in, lord I ing to treat upon the basis of the projet,
is meet- I detailed with so much openness, which was
our than I presented by the undersigned a few days as- ,
time to I ter his arrival at Lisle, or by returning a
r confer- I contre-projet of a cenciliary nature, agree
•fires the I ably to th« assurances, whieh he received so
•ench re- I long ago, that it appears polfible to conti- m
his high I nue a negociation which tke plenipotentia- '•
I riss have so strongly affmed him that the n
IJRY. direftoxy did not wilh to break 01T, notwith- ti
wit'nftanding the measures lately adopted '
lers. pie- with refpeft to him : a measure which the e
lie, com- undersigned forbears to charafterife, but a
England, which could not fail to produce in this coun
e reeeipt try the imprefiion of a disposition by no f
enipotcri- means pacific on the part of the Direftory. \
"mittsdto The undersigned is diredled to add, that j
the rotes bis majesty would be sorry to fee with iral r
the 29th regret the cer'ainty of the exiftencc of such {
lly to the a difpoiititiou, so little compatible with the ,
the mett- ardent desire with which he is animated to (
irs to de- reft pre peace to the two nations; but that (
if,- Without having himfelf contributed to it 1 ,
to accrpt on his paft,he J fhou!d again find himfelf un- (
fideration. J dcr the necelTity of continuing the war, he
[AR D. will conduft himlclf upon every occasion a-
R, grceably to the fame principles, doing every
thing which can depend upon him ior the!
re-eftablilhment of peace; but persisting to ,
defend, with an unshaken firmnefs, the dig- j
nity of his crown, and the intevefts of his J
y> people. . I
ERCHE. I Tb; mi aider plenipotentiary cf h:s Bri- i (
wuk ix-jeily.Jfifrgfe *'&}.*? P • For the .
:k>tcivliiiiv ms the I tench republic to
cot l&.«&rauccJ«»f hishighcanfiderat'on R r ri-trr
(Siga-d) MALMESBUIU.
•LoU, SrpumW «d, '??7. . J%?s*
No. 52. The meters pknipotcnt.ary h ,5 !., «r,.c
of the Trench republic, com million til to o y^ JlltC)
titat of peicc with Englaud, have recc'V- (o
CD>n*nunic
ft! the note dated frpm Loudon, which has tr(n y n^ ut i.
been brought tQtlu.m by an extraordinary fhtv M l,
mcfleoger from Lord Malmcftmry, They
of the 39th to which thty T £i ,
fjr, offering the double affurancr 01 tie e ktiovff on
tied intention «>f the French government to p.riuii
continue the negotiations for peace, and „ iUfe .
of its conflict determination not; to agree j Betore ai
to any other condition* than luAall « £
Compatible with the dignity of \ , ,},<.. *.inmi
republic. A peace, of winch (h« W» > w
fliould be contrary to the laws or to t.ie en- wa) j alr jy c
gagemeuts .tjKrU wjith its.al.Hes wOUfW never ligjfee aid c
fatirfy the ho, es of the n'atioa. "Tt 'is a eminent an.
point froin wJKch the Executive > DioAory the United
has never departed, and upon V.ncli its feu- h -V9■
timents have never varied. w h'.o'h «t»r.
Lord Malnaeftury having formally °ee' a * 10 d the (ac
red in his notes of the 15th at»d 24-th 01 t0 rentier t
July, and in the Jaft in fiance in that of the tvn the part
17th September, that he had not the pow- have 1j ma
ers neceflary for reftoting the Dutch and It is jmpor
Spanish pofleflions occupied by the troops ,I'gbt we a
of his Britannic majesty, the Executive ,^ n !t
Directory has given a new proof of its o- iea f are to
pennefs, and of its deGre to accelerate the oppo f er i fe
conclufionof peace, in requiringlord Malmef- j ourselves.
bury to return to his court, for the purpose ' to us usfo,
of obtaining the authority, without which isquejfion.
he cannot conclude a meal'ure rendered ne- able *
ceflary by the declaration ®f the minister tQ ' rwi .
plenipotentiary of his Britannic ruajelty, so this
and upon which it is impcflibl'e to give a day, j n ji
io ng irrprefiion to any thinking and im- edthis m
rtial mind. raating.tr
The ministers plenipotentiary of the
•ench Republic wquell -lord .Malmtlbury
accept the assurances of their high con- 1 mf . ret . (u ,
eration. TI a u-r> fpubh*.
TREILHARD. | <-AQu v ii;n
BONNIER. toWrh
DERCHE. I well kii»
Lisle, 4 th Vendemaire, sth
year of the republic,(Sep- Aperies
tember 2;, 1797-) . . " Hav
No. 53. The ministers plenipotentiary | mtte do\
F the French republic, charged to treat for ior me t ,
eace with England, have the honor to m- All that
,rm lord Malmelbury, ttfat having f«t a m a lette
opy of his last note to governtnent, N
be Executive Diredary has direfted them condud:
o declare in its name, that it has never cea- I (v me ro(
ed to wifli fompeace ; that it gave an une- ft» o ttl<
luivocai proof of the fmtinient winch am- to our .
rates it, when it ordered the miniilers pie- engager
lipotentiary.of the republic to require a
rategorical explanation as to the powers g.v- ""P
:n by the Engliih government to its minii- .
ier plenipotentiary ; that this demand had I j )e in j or
and could have, no other oljea but tol toyou .
bring the negociation to a speedy and fuc- report
cefsf'il iff'ie. . I
That the order given to the plen.poten- g« the
ttaries of th« republic to remain at Lille at- | monftr
ter the departure ol lord Mal.nelbury, is a- j ftil j f ui
nether proof that the Directory had desired 1 to;W ijii
and forefeen his return with powers that
fliould not be illusory, and the limitation ot «
which {hould no longer be a pretext for de-
laying the conclusion of peace. ; h j,
That such are ft)ll the hopes and mtentx- J ndu
onsof the Executive Direftory, which en- conta i
joins the miniilers plenipotentiary of the re- ft rue d
public not to quit Lisle till the continued ties ;
. di- absence of the negociator fliall no longer nation
nets leave any doubt of the intention of his to "j
in as Britannic majesty to break of all negociation.
such That consequently the 25th Vendemaire ratifu
fsof (16th of Odlt ber old style) is the period
appc
from fixed fortherecal of the miniilers plenipo- equal
3r a - tenciary of the French republic, fuppofmg both
{Wo- that at that time theminifter plenipotentiary thers
? re- of his Britannic majesty fliall not have am-
na da ved at Xiifle. .
1 P
that The Executive Direaory will feel the the j
-pro- greatest regret, that a reconciliation already figne
p ro - twice attempted, (hould not be perfe£led ; ough
been but its coufcience, and the whole of Europe tion.
will bear it tcftimony, that it is the Engliih
good government alone that will have in Rifted the
ffub- fconrge of war upon the two nations. he ,
e un- The ministers plenipotentiary oftheFrench
m ina- republic intreat the minift«r plenipotentiary pu i o
at the of h's Britannic majesty to accept the affu- tion:
n,and ranees of their high coniideratio'n.
;s had (Sia;nsd) •. TRIJ.ILHARD. .j,
nation BONNIER. No'
were The Secretary of Legation, Pirn
>fe of DERCHE. r °P'
eir al- Lisle, 10th Vcndemaire,
6th year of the French the
infent- republic, Ocl. I, '97- n. t:
? r °j et > No. s£ The Htiderflgned having laid otlv
:hwa , S before the king's ministry the note of the
a X S plenipotentiaries of the French republic, we|
" ng a is direfted to observe to them, yol
[vfTfo That it is only in consequence of the for- u1
conti- mal and pofilivtiojundion of the Diredonr d •
>tenl «. that he quitted Lisle : that his powers were J
liat the neither Jlufory nor linvted ; and that no- eni
atwith- thing was omitted on his part to accelerate j evt
idooted the negociation, which has been only retard- Nc
•"ch the ed by the delays of the directory, anil which trt
fe, but at this moment it is only fufpendeaby its aft. «
is coun- With regard to the renewal of the con- p h
by no f ere ncef, the undersigned can only refer to l 0
reftory. i,j s i ate no tt, where he hss explained with ,an
Id, that f ran kncfsand precilion thconly means which trc
?ith ie3l rema in for continuing the negotiation ; ob-
of such feruing at the fame time that the king could th
with the no longer treat in an enemy's country, with- yc
ritcd to out b c ing certain that the customs eliabliln
'Ut that e(3 imoui r all civilized nations, with regard gt
ted to it tQ üb i;c ministers, and efpeciaHy to thoie al
nfelfun- to negotiate for there-eftabliinment «
war, he p ta(:e . would b.* refpc&ed for future in
caiion a- person of his plenipotentiary* v
ag every Xhe rr.'ni.lcr pler.ipotf-ntiary of his Bri- ir
for the j t2Dnj( , m - c a y requclta the mimfters pleni- tl
V ng r ° potcntiary cf the French republic to accept a
the U.g- a durance of his high consideration. j•.
' sofh " (Signed) MALMESBURY. 1,
his Bri- London, str. Ciit. 1 /9-7*
if >l ■jBL-UL.J ■—"» i —i
For the Gazette of the United Stairs.
Rr. fleCti6ws os Monroe's " View.'*
no. vii. f ;
I proceed r.o.v to thc-exacninatioriof tie fourth
inHance of' nwfcimriel in Mr. Monroe, ,which
hi! foe-nThe* ificd. He pJ-n.wfed.to.tlv comiui
tee of fu'ilic innerJ**ilyai:d improperly
to cirmknaiiate ti i teot theijlipuiatims lij'ths
' trft't nfgv&tttd utitb Great-liritoin, so faw.ets
' the; boui-t be b'fwi to bim ■; and brfor* tile
' * ■i.rrrt«utii pwfob l bAvtbeea Jilt to the United .
• Sla'rJt hefsnta facial mffingcrjo London to ab~
nhi-fct-tij" futrlicu'drpurpofc fi/Ugtigg it
eif'.retr'- em-iiittee', andptrlinatioufly refufedto.,
knovf so tr xW- fay the contents of the treaty*
wtleft ft.rniitU-)i ii> carn •aunica.te tucm t» tie evfi-
mitt re. - ' ■
e Before any resrutks are made,-- i{ will be ru
ff I cclTary to ri\-|te tfc; letters which' palled
h'up >n tIA iubjeit. OfUhe a-ill December 4704,,
•. ' ihi-eommi iee wrote to Mr Monroe a: foj*
'* ! lotos : '* We are informed citizwiv §W «*»"■'
1 ' was lately concluded at Lupdon, ,».tr*ai.y of<U- ?
* r //ii.'K'e aad commerce bcrv. eCT* the rti itnu.gov
a cram cot and citizen J.ay,envoy exti.»oidiii*ry of
ry the United States. .
u . ), •< A vague reparl f|Keid» itfelf, tint in tfifs
treaty the citwn Jay«.as forgotten tfiofe things
which nor: treaties with the American people,
a " and the facrifkes w hid? the French people made
0 to rejider them trse, gav,e us a right jo expeft
on the part of a nr.filler of * naua:!, which we
w- have so many motives to eonlidsr a» friendly,
nd It is important that we Jtr.ow pplitivrlv in what
p, light'we are to hold this affair. There
■ not to/nbiift between t vufree people the d;lum-,
uUH«n which twl ngs to court*, ana it gjvesus
?" pleasure to declare, tiiat we conlidrr you as much ►
opposed personally to that ki*d of policy as wa
1 ourselves. We inviteyott th~n to communicate
afe : to usasfoon cs frftfibh the treaty whereof there
ich is quejlion. It is the enly means whereby you en
ie_ able the French nation ji'JHy to appreciate thoje
Icr reports, so injurious to the: Americango-eerment,
1 and to which t 'r.t treaty gave birth"—(p. 103.)
' * To this letter our mimller answered tne fime 1
a day, in the foUowtii;: words—" I was 'avou
im- ed this rairnitig with yours of ye!lerdav, .in:i
mating that the report "t a treaty, (aiii to be
the concluded by Mr. Jay,.eru'»y e:ttraorcii.narv of
ur „ the United States tu Ecjlipd wish, that nation,
derogatory'o tha treaties of.afliance apd «Qt»-
meree fubfrfting between Oiafe Hales apd this
republic*, had given yiiu fotne diftjiiinude, and
'• 1 iequ.ll:ng infu r mattcn£rom me upan that point.
f oi>ey-tfce* ijrvita'io» wsk p!eatn*e, tjepiute..X'
j well know that a policy is, t'i.at alone
I which becomes rtpabitcs. a;iu Uecasfc itis like
] wife moll coritfpondcnt with the wiftit# of tlie
I American governmenr and my q>vivfeelings..
I " Having already communicated to youths//-
iar y I mited objett of Mr. Jay's rai©on, it only remains,
t for I { ot mt to inform you what 1 know of the refuh.
) in- I All that I know upon this fubjeil, is comprised.
Nt a 1 iu a letter received yesterday from Mr. Jay, of
ient November »jth, in which he fays that he had
I ' I fulfilted the principal ohjeft of his mission by
I concluding a treaty, signed on the 19th of the
cea " I fame month, which contains a declaration " that
une " lit Ihould not be construed nor operate contrary
1 ani- I to our cxifting treaties, and that therefore our
3 pie- j engagements are not affcAed by it. He adds,
ire a I that as the treaty is not yet ratified, it would
. • Ibe improper to puhlijb it. lam altogether igno
..r I rant of the particular Jlipulations of the treaty,
Jv j 1 but beg leave to rjfute, that as Joon as IJball
I had I be informed thereof, I will communicate the fame
II t0 Ito you. j take it however for granted, that the
1 fuc- I report is without foundation ; for I cannot be
-1 lieve that an American minister would ever .'®r
loten- I ? et tl>e conne<Sli oHS between the United States
(i. .c and France, whidi every day's experience de
• I monftrates to be the mtereft of both republics
' lB a * j still further, to cement," The letter of Mr. Jay *
efired | to W hich Mr. Monroe refers, is r.s fellows ;
3 that J London, Nov. ifr *794-
ion of I " Sir,
or de- I "By a letter written and sent a few days ago,
I ( bad ths pie*t«rc.«®[jnfortniogyou, that on the
. , • 1 nth inft. the principal business of my mfffion was
* concluded by a treaty figned'on that day. It
ch en " contains a declaration that it ftull not be con
the re- ft rue d nor operate'eontrary to our exiftingtrea
tinued ties ; as therefore, our eti gage til <ints wi.h ot er
longer nations rtmaitl unaffefled by it, reafon
„f KJ S to hope that bur preferring peace and gmd tin
• ■ n derjitmdwgwttb this country, <wdl not give un
• easiness to any other. As the treaty is not yet
iemalr f ratified, it would be improper to pubhm it. It
period appeai s , to me to be upon the whole fair, and as
ilenipo- equal as could be expe&ed. In some reipedts
apofmg both nations be pleased, and in o-
ivTarrf to-which Mr. Jay refers, is dated
IV£ 14th November, and as follows : " fi.r,lt gives
. , , me pleasure to inform you, that a treaty between
:eel the the United States and his Britannic majesty was
already f )gne d on the 19th instant. This circumstance
feded ; ought not to give any ur.ealinels to the: conveii-
Europe tion. The treaty expressly declares, that noth-
Fncrlilh i"S contained in it fliallhe construed or oper
a'/. • contrary'to existing treaties between the nlte^
fted the States and -ther powers. 1 flatter myfeU, that
ns - , the United States, as well as all their mimfters,
itentiary puious regard to good faith, and that tkofe na
the affu- urns who wish us well, will be pleased with our
preferring peace and a good undemanding with
iRD.H d»r after tl.-s, Mr. Jay, on the »Bth
L. November, wrote to Mr. Monroe—" As Mr.
ation, Pinckney has a cypher with out minijters Hi tu«
rope, either he or I will Ihortlv ule it m £°™~
municating to you the principal heads ot t e
tteaty confidentially. You need not hesitate in
the mean time, to fay explicitly, that it contains
nettling repugnant to our engagements with any
ine- laid other nation." To this letter Mr Monroe, on
nf the tlle *7 th J anUJr y '79S> returned t.us anlvrer.
ur " Sir, Early in December lait, Englifli papsrs
republic, werc „ ceived here, containing such accounts of
your adjustment with the Britilh administration,
f the for- as excited much uneasiness in the councils of
nireflorv 'bis govurnmenr, and I had in contemplation t»
dispatch a confident.al person to you, ior ft'.ctt
ivers were il) 4 l . mJt i on 0 f what had been done, as would
that no- cr)il tjle me to removejt. At that moment, liow.
accelerate CV er, I was favoured with yours of the 15th
ly retard- November, intimating tfcat the contents ot ;kr>
md which treaty coiild'iiot be made "known until it
bvitsaft. ratineCl i but that T might l>y it contained noih
' hi l 'derogatory to our existing treaties with other
the con- po ° wers . -phos ndvifed, I thought it improper
y refer to l 0 rnaicethe application, because I concluded the
ined with arnngoiem was mnti'il, and not to be departed
ans which from. I proceeded therefore to make the best
.„u la my power of the information already given.
. ' , " To dav, hinvtvtr,l wai favored with yours of
iing could t |, e jß : h 0 f t he Uiw month,' by which I find
Itry, with- consider ycurfdf at liberty to commuriifatc
s cllablifh- io roe t h 6 contents of tß?tr*aty • and as it is ot'
ith regard great importance to <<ur a£-iir» to remove
-r to thole all doubt upon this point» i have it prop
abliihment er to resume my original plan of lending to you
- future in for ,hc neccfiary information, safrhsve m con
tuture f t quenc'e, dispatched the bearer, Mr. John Put
viance. for rhat purpose. I have,been the more
5? his Dri- induced to thH from the further conf,tkr»t:on,
i>ers pleni- that in cafe I ihould be favoreed with the com
* „. tnu.ikation promi'.ed in cypher, it would be i«h
cto accepc io(r . ble for me (0 comprehend it. as Mr. Mor
:rat."in' I! is took his with him. Mr. Purviance is fraia
RUIIY. i Maryland, a gentleman of inteuritv and merit,
1 and to whom yon may commit whatever y<WPU<- tWSfc 11 = M>Sdr, will. prrfc£ la*tV- -We 'lll
!: ,e necelTirv » *evsr, to eb/et-j.'tbatnsn»tting gone,
, faluh ibis -giternment but a nftbr m- town>
/Irument ilfif, anJ subicb alcur <Uj, it tbrkt - y
'itfelf intitM to iso it will U ufeiefsfor me to *
nab to it ah} c9Kimu*KationJ*trt of .oat. .
I motion this, that jc» may kntxu prmfa the or the
Suit of my hire, and Aeiu deem ■! teken.
'mt Jiif toai under tbem in relathn.te tkis ok- trepil
ftß 1 be" leave to refer v«u to Mr. Purviaiic* ' k
tor Whatever information you may; w.«h on tin a( . £
fuh&a; or the afnir* m 're-gtneratty of the re- ,
r ,;!tk"-( Mg fc tn). To.hu I "Iter i Mr- Jay 2 re «
Leered on Ihe Jth Sir, I have 1 h
received the letter you d.S «e the honor townte rid de
cn the , 7 th ofAiX month; by Mr. Pu. tuner. John
It is much to be regretnd, that any unautho- w h o ,
riz»d aceooaW in finylift newfpape"of my dfral;
«■ adjiiflment with the Brinf!) administration,
should have excited much uneafmels in the coun- _
cils of the Freieh government; and the more J
so, as it dow not imply that, .confidence in the Wi
honor and good faith of the United Berk
rtitr certainly merit. You muftbe sensible that to b<
the UnitW States, as afrel? and independent na- toU g
tion, have an unqoettttsnable right to make any _
pacific arrangements with other powers whicn ~ ■
TO'jtn»l convenience may dilate ; provided those
arrangements do not tontradifl or oppugn their
ijiior engagements with other (htes.
Whether this adjustment w«s afcßfifteot with
our treaty with France, ftrucfc >ne .>s being '.he By
only quciiion which could demand or receive iho lrc a
t erliideration of that republic ; ami I thought it previ
<j»e to the men<Mhi;l fubfiff ing bet ween the two Gene
countries, th.u the French government fheuld —lit,
hive, without delay, the mod perte& fat.sfae
rion on that head I therefore, by three letter«» —W
vi?. the 34th, trth and jgth of November 1794, war
give yhti what I hoped would be very accepta
ble in« 4 fitufcido.-y information on that poi«t.: It
lam "happy in ti'is opportunity of giving vou Van
an exail and literal extract from the treaty ; it is the ,
in these words, Viz, _ thr.r
'< Nothing'in this freaty contained (hi'.! how- nrt
ever be coiiftrued or operate contrary to former A
hr exiftjni public treaties with other favcreiens '■«
• oi llatf"." ami r
Confiderin- that event! favorabi: to. oar
C3UBtrycn-.iUi not fail to give you plf» ire, 1
did intend to comntunicate to you cor.riielv some 11 " c
of tjie mill intereifilig particulars of
bui in the mojl perfeH confidence :As that in- *
ftnrtner:t his not'yet been ratifted, nor receivrd a^ d
tHe ultimate forms to give it validity ; a» fur
tfctr refpetfling pans of it may yet a-
.rile and give oecafion so further difaifTtors and T a '
•Sieg6riTtH>r.i, fii rtrtt if ttnalljr concluded at aU,_U -'
may then be ddTerent from what it no\v is, the me
iifipropncr/of making it public at ptel'ent i' poV(
palpable Ind obvious. Such a prcceeding would ; aa
be inconvenient and unpresedented : It docs 0 f t
not belong to ministers who negotiate treaties to
r * ptibiilh them evet> when perfeited-, much less j
treatica not ytt completed, and remaining ope'n
to or - tj,e
clnfively to the governments who form them. jj
I cannot but flitter myftlf that the present gov- p 4p(
»naicnt istooenlightened and reasonable to expeA ; n g
that'any consideration ought to induce me to over- j
look the bounds el my authority, or to b» negli- el p]
gent »f the rsfpe& which is due to the United
(States, t That refptfl, and.my Miga'toni t$ observe it,
•WtU not permit mc to give, -without the permijjio* <f tbeir
government, « copy of tie inji'umtnt in qncjl'wi to any
per fan, or far any purpofi ; and by no means far the pur- £J(
ptft of beimt falmiued to the confutation and judgment
of the councils of a foreign nation, however friendly I
■will, Sir, itle the earliest opportunity of transmitting a
copy of your letter Jo me, eeiid cf this anfiver to it, to the
Secretary of State, and wilt immediately and punUunlly (Jar
execute futh orders and inflruflions as X may receive on the j n p
f,bj e ar . ' t *
To this mcft excellent letter of Mr'. Jay. cjr ,
minift rat Paris eould n >t, and therefore dij Rat,
, ' return any answer; and so the correspondence was
concluded between them, except that afterwards
Mr. TAfmbull went to Paris, by whom Mr. Jiy an ,
wrote again to Mr. Mosroe, referring him, rcla •
tiv_ to tiic treaty, to verbal information, to be rej
ceive-J froni Mr. frumhuH, in perfelt sonfdence;
which alf'i Mr. M-ooroe .u ;.i,-rprnr n{
tlncfe terHts. SGIPiO. tic
——— up
HARRISBURGH, J»n. 3,1798. of
0" Saturday evening last, a j.ury of inquest. an
- was summoned in confeqiience of a female w<
infant being found' dead in a house in this th
town—lt appears,that acertainSallyTaylor, in
a single woman, formed the resolution to m<
smother her child, and denying {he ever had th
any—but by the timely search of a number in
of the neighbors, the innocent vi&im was ha
> found fecr.eted between the bed and bolster! qi
—where the inhuman wrttch of n mother, in
fuffercd it to struggle away its life!— One of
■wonld think, that her co-partner in guilt, ve
whoever he is, must pofiefs very uncomforta- th
ble moments, on reflect ng 011 his being the tb
cause of so much cruelty. fit
The mother was committed to prison on fu
Monday morning, to meditate on the awful tli
doom that awaits htr. ef
We wi(h that we could stop here, with- at
out, detailing any further inhuman depreda- to
tions of mankind! especially at the com- n<
menccment of a new year ; —but fate has vv
• decree otherwise: tl
OrrSatttrAay last, were liro't ol
to town and fafely-imprifoned, John Hauer, pi
Charles M'Manus and Francis Cox, for
the wilful murder of Mr. Ffancis Shitz. The fa
particulars, as near as we have been able to e]
collefl, are as follows : d
Francis Shitz, with his brother Peter. c<
Shitz, had been at a neighbouring vendue on ti
Thursday lad, and returned in the evening ai
as supposed something fatigued, as the for
mer had laid himfelf on a bench, near a p
Hove, to reft, while the latter retired to bed o
in an adjoining apartment. They had not tr
.been long in this tranquillity, before a female
o( the house, discovered a light in the kitch- c
*n, and opening the door, wai frightened n
Z\. the appearance of several men, and im- o
mediately endeavored to awaken Mr. Fran- o
cis Shitz ; but she had only in part efiefted c
her purpose, when one of the affafiins pre-
N fented a pistol to his head, which he difchar- tl
and killed him on the spot. In the t!
mean time, two others proceeded to the fl
bed-room of the brother, Mr, P- Shitz, o
with axes, and at the firfl fi,roke whiijh one ti
of them made, his axe caught the cord of n
■ky the Curtain, which in some meafore stopped r \
the fordc of the bluw: he was, however, t
very much cut on the (houdder, which li
c'(Hifed him to leap from his bed to the floor, t
and to have the presence to fei/e a chair, m
with which he knocked them both down ; t
but in leaving the room, he received ano
ther deep wound 011 his posterior, which o
did not prevent him, however, from locking o
the door, and escaping out of a - window, v
and retreating to the barn, where he placed c
himfelf in u narrow pafTage, armed* with i:
a pitchfork ; but after waiting a c«niijera- g
'ble time, and finding the mureerers, !.ad N'
gone, he repaired immediately to Shausr s- laiu
town, a distance of two miles, r art with trAml- of.;
intr his weakeefs with hiss of' Hood, where , com
he (pread the alarm, ar.d by the vigilance o. 1
of the inhabitants the above named were moii
teken.—lt is to be remarked, that this in- \ h
treptd young man. who thus defended him- fide;
fvtf. k only 17 years 6f age ; and although frOr
at preTerit, very much indisposed ( there are tion
great hopes of his fecovtry.
The motive which led to the above lior- cert
rid deed, is thought to have originated with ing
John Hauer, brother in-latf to the deceased, por
who expefted to fall heir to a very coafi- tad
derabfe estate, had he accomplif.ied his to I
wicked purpose. :
BetijamLn Bhiley, confined in tne goal or
the borough "us Reading, in the county 01 "m
Berks, For the murder of John Foltiaber, is ed,
to be executed on the commons of said lo- Ccr
rough, r.ext Satordiy the 6th inft. 011
00
i 3 —t or t
By this day's Mail.
1 NEW rOP.Ks January It.
By a gjrtleoian lately arrived from Nantz, we to
1 are authorized to ftatq,'tliat he saw (a few Jays the
1 previousto his departure) a letter from cha Consul mi
» General at Paris," so the American Confui at Nir.tz
1 —literally, as ollows. 1.
" The Dire Aery yet continue an obfiinate
( —We honour country may be Uept out of a&ual
, war; but uiere is no k J e< of repafation.' tni
. : foi
; It ha* Ven mnvsd in the convention oy -^va
Li Van d. rjaght to repairtht fi< ef, nd to requiie from
3 the commiflfon of foreign a?iir«, an account of
their coniu™ n ordering the iltet to sea, without
■- £rt laying n eiibirgq.—Referred. u '
r A propofitien has been made iti she couccil of w(
s five hundred to cut a canal from Paris to Oiepoe,
and the dredlory invited to take th; ptoje& iute j- ? ,
r confideratioir,
1 Count Mctternich has declined the o(f.ce of mm
ifter from the at the approaching congress h!
,1 W* undcrftan a that two of the deputy fhsr ffs
and some other perfor, were yefierday, at the f 0
quarter l!2"nn held in this city, sentenced to fin« j t
and for three and fix months for
j in the execution of their refpeaiv* of
6ces Us . i»rtif»lar» have not"yet eome to our tl(
" KnowUagc. We hope this pHnifhment may ope
ie rate as a warning to the description of people a- ] 3l
1 hove mentioned, sn'4 prevent the futore comnsiff
d Um of enormities and cpprefßons in the execution
;s of their duty 171
;o tl
fs The ftip Patriot, capt. Peter I.aing, arrived at so
* 'this port last evening from ; (he left g,
c * theTexelon the 10th Novi Spoke nothing. cc
By the Patriot we have been favored with Dutch ! p
papers to Nov. 4, inclusive, bat they contain noth- ~
ing of conference. ln
r- The Dutch are said to be quite Cck of maritime
exploits, , pi
•f WiIUJIIMHMHTOg'-iiagJJ 1 1 1 *—"■ Ol
CON G R ESS.
r- HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. »
1 THURSDAY JANUARY 11.
>he Mr. Gregg presented the petition of A- la
l!y dam Corp, a foldiei in the late war, pray- tl
ing for a penfion.—Referred to the commit- ;
tee of Claims. ai
The bill for the relief of John Frank, and p
•as The Will for prescribing the mode ©f tak- 1
'<*s ing evidences in cases of contested eledions, u
and to compel the attendance of witnesses, n
' a . were read the third time and palled. \
e ~ A report was received from the Secretary tl
ffirr nf Trf'i fl irv-—jfi of t4rt
tion of the House of the sth inft. calling p
upon him for the accbunt of the execution n
of the Mint Law. He states that receipts p
eft and payments on account of Government h
ale were made at the bank of the United States; h
his that monies received at a distance were paid t
or, in bills; that the bank Direftors had a com- t
to mon interest in all the specie deposited, but h
lad that they were always willing to «o-operate t
>er in the wiihes of the government, and would f
ras have at any time advanced a reafonah'e '
er! quantity of Foreign coin for the Mint; but t
er, in the years 1795 and 1796, the quantity t
)ne of Foreign coin, other than Spanish, was a
ilt, very inconsiderable, and if it had been a- I
ta- therwife, the situation of the Treasury at j 1
the that time would not admit of fuffering con- I
fiderable sums to lie at the Mint; hut that j
011 since the Proclamation of the President of t
■ful the United States was issued, the quantity <
ef Freneh crowns had very much increased <
th- at the Banks, and tliat in future, according 1
da- to the present regulations, there would be
im- no doubt but the Mint would be supplied 1
has with a fnfficicnt quantity of bullion from <
these sources. Referred to the committee 1
■n't of the whole to whom was referred the re
icr, port on the fubjedt of the Mint,
for Mr. Macon, from the committee of revi- :
!"he sal and unfiiniihed business, moved that the
to expiring laws relative to the fufpenfionof the
duty onSnuff and Tobacco, Foreign Inter
:er. course, and to the collcifion of internal du
on ties, be referred to the committee of Ways
ing and Means.—Agreed.
"or- On motion of Mr. Gallatin, the aft ref
r a pe<Singthe regulation of the compensation
bed of Clerks, was referred to the fame com
not mittee.
lale Mr. D. toiler, from the committee of
ch- claims, made a report in favour of the ftate
ned ment yesterday received from the Secretary
im- of war, that the two persons therein named
an- ought to be placed oh the pension lift. Con
rted currt'd in.
Dre- Mr. Titlinghaft presented a resolution of
tar- the Legislature of Rhode-Island, dirsEling
the the Representatives in Congress from that
the (late, to use their efforts to obtain a repeal
itz, of the Stamp a<S, and to get paflcd an aft
one to provide a uniform system of weights and
dos measures throughout the United States.
. r
ped The resolve having been read, in conformity
vejr, to the latter part of it, Mr. T. moved a iv
tich solution for the appointment of the commit
tor, tee tb report a plan tor fixing a standard of
iair, weights and measures, which was ordered
rn; to lie on the table.
uio- Mr. Thatcher moved that the report up
lich on the petition of the Marshal of the uiliridt
ting of Maine, he referred to the committee to
ow, whom was referred a resolution to take into
iced consideration the law for regulating process
i-ith in the court* of the United States.—A
era- greed.
1^
an approprialii:u, and 3: ibis was tH^ cafe, --A"
he fljou'.d not confcut to any
until th*; Accofi.iit called for at the lafl fe!nofi
was hid before the house. N«r fliould lie
be in favor of any farther appropriation un
til some opinion was pafled as to the i»if- . _ F 1
managtrtlent of this business. He faid.ffiif
j management,'beeaufe in three fever.l luTtari-
j ces the house had been told that the ftiMT.p- j (
propriated at each would be futucictit to ~f .
complete and put the vtffels to sea. 1 his
proceeding, he thought furniflitd £
■ the cleaved evidence that that management JsJ,
had been wrong, and might as well t,he 1
1 throw the money of the public into the Let
. sea at once, as appropriate it to an obieft to ; a m>
which there feenied to.be no cud. Nut f"-
■ ing any immediati.- octafion for the moucy,
- he therefore moved for the committee torife, der i
r in order to givetime for the receipt of ihe we f
. sflimates in qaefrion. to tj
r ' Mr. Gallatin said, when he was up be- thou
, ! fore, he had declared that no statement had con d
- come before the committee of ways and T
> means from the treafary department ; in a fc, o v
which affrrtiejn he was correft. The only lowi
papers laid before that committee were live 0
1 papers furnifhed, he supposed, by thd naval 0 f t
. conllruflor. That committee had no efti- (inc«
. mate before them from which they could Ore
. draw any conclusion. He agreed with the JDol
gentleman from S. Carolina, that one faft Hui
s appeared, viz. that more money would be
y wanted. This was gathered from the let
t ter of the secretary of (he treasury ; but *
- beyond that they had nothing upon which
d to aft. The question was, therefore, wheth- w
r, er the committee ought now to make an ap- A
it propriatioii, or wait until the proper efti- **■
mate w'as received. If the papers alludeti
0 to, were examined, it would be found there
d I was no date to any of them, except to one oj
It i which v/ss dated Bolton, Nov. 30. It could of t
is not 'oe ascertained, therefore, whether or not a g'
the 151,000 dollars were Wanting beyond
g the money lafl appropriated. Indeed it was yi°J
lS altogether impossible to form any correft i- 111 '
?n dea, from these papers, of the sum wanted, verl
j. or whether it was immediately neceflary to dex
tjiake an appropriation. Thefnpapers might or t
:d be correft, but tl*ey were not official. But flev
:e there was another paper, which might be aft
id relied upon, stating that on the firft of Jan- cor
of uary there was a balance remaining.of the tha
in last appropriation of 20,501 dollars, and
a- that no money had been expended since.
a This paper was not laid before the commit- ln "
x. tee of ways and means ; if it had been, he P et
v- doubted not the fame conclusion would have l y
been drawn, viz. that 110 inconvenience an<
nt could be sustained by postponing the appri
fi- priation for a week or two until the proper ,
u- estimates ftiould be laid before the house. .cir
rd Mr. G. concluded by faying, that he a- thii
ds greed with the gentleman from Virginia, G "
in that there appeared on the face of the laws
on this fubjeft, a suspicion that there had pr ,
to been some mismanagement in the expendi- No
ch ture of the money which 'had been appro- ing
priated. From what cause this had arisen
ys whether from our inexperience in thebu- as
m- finefs, or from a culpable misapplication of
nt. the mcyiey, he could not fay, but it was
ng proper to stop and look into what had been
a- done, before they went on to appropriate SI
ich more money.
all Mr. Harper replied, that whether the
10l- money which had been appropriated to this Si
to objtft had been properly or improperly ex
fti- pended, was not now the question. The p
>re- expence of these veftels had always been an
the argument with certain gentlemen against
ury completing them. With refpeft to what •"
ary had fallen from the gentleman from Penn
iftd fylvanja (Mr. Gallatin) he had admitted all
iich that was necessary to shew the propriety of
' ef- the present appropriation, since he admitted
be- that there was fufficient evidence before the
the committee to fliew tljat more money
for was wanted to finifh the frigates. He tho't
low it was, therefore, quibbling to objeft to it,
ded because certain estimates were not before
was them. When the Secretary of the Trea- 1
ght r y told the house more money would be
rto wanted, was it fupppfed he overlooked the
'ays balance In Hand ■ But how, it might be afk
lich e d, when this balance reimined in hand pn
!tat- the ift January, could the appropriation
of in wanted ! Because V
hey he answered, bills might haye been incurred
eft. which it was necessary to pay. The whole
:fti- queflion, he said, resolved itfelf into this,
:ary whether the completion of the vefTels (hould
pon be suspended until an enquiry fnould be
made into the expenditure of the money al- Ci
ma- ready appropriated ? He did not wonder to
be- hear that this was the wish of gentlemen ,j
It who had always thought it their duty to B
:eiv- oppose jhe building of the frigates ; but -
he (hould think it extraordinary indeed, if
man that part of the house who wiflred the vef- q
>hen fek to be finifh ed, (hould concur in that o
dto pinion. Mr. H. was ready to acknowledge
the that these vessels had cost by far too much
md, money. He did npt know from what cause
icfed this had happened ; Ije believed it had been
To partly from the novelty of the undertaking ,
auld from the materials having been felefted v
; the from the most durable and costly ; from the i;
the detached fituatiou of the vessels and from J
the a variety of other causes. But from what
ead. ever causes the extraordinary expcnce had
ant- arisen, gentlemen were prepared to meet t
the enquiry ; but in the mean time he trust- f
'/art. E d the business would befuffered to proceed. 1
Out of 150,000 dollars which were eftiina-
5 ted as necessary to complete the vessels, 011 -
9 lv 20,000 were asked, which, he trusted, [
7 there would be no farther objeftion to ap- :
propriate.
9 (Debate to le cor,tinned.)
6 CLERKSHIP. !
A Young IVI/n, who cooU (Tin;' in4i putablc
yeeommendat-ons is defirou -o l»e employ
ed in the capacity of copynijj t lt rk, at » rubhc o!-
31 fece, or a private gentleman— wonld «n- '
gagk-on moderate terms. v or fu thtr parti»u
, . lars enquire at th: oH:ce of tlys Gize;te.
[5 i January 11. ol) 'f
lcbts "" OVAL BOTTLES.
lC an Quart jntt half gallon in erates—»and a quanti
c P a * ty ot Claret Bo:tles of a tight fiji —l or sale at
ip*ar Ko. »3> Church Alky, DO.^£Y.
' for Jinuary t» 3tiv. 6w. 1
t• , t
Xije (Bwttt.
PHILADELPHIA, .
Faid \y EVEix'iNd, 7 * ij-
UrfiM, LaA evc;ing, R?y D*. Mj|i
Mr. Gri»C' MrcSjfl, f to M'fs A»/<
d ugtr.er of f>ie Rjv (icoroe Turner, a.i
oftti'SCKV. S3.
E 'trad from th- Aurora of ytperday-
Nothing fliort of force \v?ll command from
the Brit-i(h refpeft for the of neutral?.
Let every American ask himfelf then which
is mod for the interefl of his country; to Lc
i:i cli>le bonds with 3 nation whole
system towards neutrals has over beta plun
der and \-jlrnce, or with the French vvliotx
we fee attentive, wh 1(1 negoeiati/ijf a peace
to the lights and jute petit of neutral nations
though they have fuffcred severely by the
condufl of some of them during the war."
The tell comment on, or aofwer to tilt
above paragraph, will be found in the fol
lowing fa£t.
One of tiie public InfurariiV Companies
of this Gity, has loft by French captures
(ince the commencement of the war with
Great Britain, Seven Hundred Thousand
and by Bn't/fh Captures Two
Hundred Tooufrnd.
2STJDS XWx HUM A h'TTY. .
Extcruxcf, from the earlieU/ime,
Pays pun 'flim-.it 111 null Tullnw crime ;
But modern men of r«t« humanity.
Would rogu s can-Jon) to faint 1 ; by ieiry ;
And when the jracinus i*o.ri is done,
Make twenty more fcy'fmug one.
A inoft uncotrimcn circumstance occurred
on Tuefdayin the city voad.. A large dog,
of the maftifF breed, happened to pals near
a gamecock, when the Latter, without any
provocation, afiailetj the dog with the utmost
violence. TftS-ijpg btptTire irritated, and
in his turn attacked the game cock. A se
vere combat enfufd; but the vigilence and
dexterity of the cock eluded every attempt
of the dog to hurt him. At length the cock
flew upon the dog's back, and with his beak
a finally put out both his eyes. He then
. continued the attack with so much ferocity,
that in short time the dog fell to the ground
[ when the cock struck him a blow with his
heel, which penetrated to h, : 3 brains, and he
instantly expired. There were above 500
; persons witnefiesto this curious battle.-*—Fif
. ty guineas were offered for the gamecock
. and refufed. Ehg.pap.
PIT TSBVRG, Januaty 5.
r We are authprifed to fay, by a gentleman from
• .Cincinnati, who left Malfac in November, that
- things were all quiet in those parts —that captan
Guion had eftab'ilhed a fort at the Chickafaw Bluffs,
' which he garrisoned by a part of his datachmenc
under lieutenant Campbell, and that he was to
proceed from that place for Natchez, on the Ift of
- November- With refpeiSt to the Bans Culottesbe
- ing in pofleiJioß of Lonifiana, it is all nonfenfe—
n theSpar.iards though footifh, are not quite mad—
they would as soon keep company with the l)evil,
j. as have such neighbors to their Mexican provinces.
3 Nevj-Tork, Jan. 10.
n ARRIVED DAYS.
e Ship Patriot, Laug, Amfterda.n 60
Jay-—>
ie Brig Boston, , Liiboti
i* Schr. Hope, , Trinidad 43
c- ■ ■ 1
ie Pennsylvania Population Cont^-
in
a Pany
lt At an annual meeting of the Shareholders,
n . the following gentlemen were duly eleft
(]j ed for the ensuing year—viz.
c f Prefide*t—John Field
.j Managers—Theophilus Cazenove
)f : William Cramond
Paul Bufti ,
>' t Henry Philips
: t Samuel Sterett
re James Gibfon
.. Treasurer and Sec'ry— Solomon Marache.
~
Z NEW THEATRE,
k-
>n THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 12,
fe Will he prelented (for the firft time), a COMIC
ed OPEKA, ia three adls, called
>le • Abroad and at Home,
s > OR,
Id A TOUR IN THE KING'# BENCH,
be To which will be added, a Farce, in two sifts
,t_ called,
to THE DEAF LOVER.
Saturday, by defirr, the Tragedy of
' THE REVENGE, with Two Strings to your
t0 Bom , or, The Servant with Two Matters.
if Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
O- February next, will be exposed to PuMic Sale,
ge at the Merchants' CofFee-houfe in Second-street,
c ll at 6 o'clock in the eveniflg, the following
, fe ESTATES.
en No. I. A two flory brii House, with z two
story frame Euildings.on a lot 20 feet front *ud
n £ ioc feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet f« s irc,
ed with the privilege of an alley to go thereto, j his
he intereU has lately been let for aoo dollars per an
-snl num, and is firuated in Chridian-ftrest, between
' t Front and Second streets, the second houle Irom
" Mr Caleb Alh's.
la ® No 2. A three flory brick Houfe 1 , Ctuate st
"et the north raft corner of Chtfuut streets, being 14
ill- feet on Second-flreet, and 43 feet or. Chefnat
na yearly rent of 400 doflars, and is denjeaoce of
the bell hands for the sal« of dry goods in this city.
" " Nc. 3. A handsome well finiflied three story
'd, britlt Hcufe, 10 feet front and 100 feet deep, fitu
ap- ate in Fifth-llreet. between Market and Arch
llr.ets, No. 40 'I hi* house inlrciit and finilbed
a in the modern style, is iri eoniplcle repair, with
_ double cellars under the whole TTieie ia a cistern
of rain wat rin the yard ; and the house Is at pr;-
fcrt let for 600 dollars per tnyrr.n with the taxes,
ible 4- A three ftc>: y brick House, situate in
D y. Fl'jnvS flreet, bvt>roca Second and Thir4 Oreet,
o i_ beiiig.ao feet frorit Mid I.ju feet deep, at prefcr.t
cn . occupied by Robert Kenny.
isu- No 5. A thr.e flory luick House, on the Ivult
fide of Front-fireet. No. 171 North, going thro'
.(■ to Water street, where it is fve (lory. It is IV
* feet front and 48 feet d ep. in complete repair,
and it rented for 60c dollars ycr annum.
n ti- The conditions of Saie are, one quarter cafj,
Ie at one quarter in 6 months, one qurrte:' in 9 mcmh ,
LY. aod one quarter in ta months.
r. Philadelphia. Jaij'ta, 1798 jaw.lJfFO* THE CORF OF
COUGHS, COLD.:, MTU MAS. CON
SUMPTIONS,
Jind all difurdert of the Sreujl and Lungs,
Church's Drops
I* a medicine by any o !,<. r in t*e vorM.
CkXf 1 f UA • L.
"I h rcby certify, flint ( FTiv«r htcu cure<4 of ..
most Jovcfir Cough, Ccid, an 1 feverc pain in aiy
brcitL by taking only a few doses of Dr. Cnußcu's
Co .•& i*rop%. CH AJU.fcUJ UEVANS/ 1
£-i! Maker, Sprue ltrcct wJurf, rhitidclffcia. f
/ row a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SfK, '
Having L cn recently reftorod from the brink of
fhc£jiv«*, by your invuluffbi: meJicine, I think it
lay . *|»y j.« make tiiia public i-clcmwledgment of
ihe.i iajc*, for tha b?nc(it of oth-r* a/Kidcd with a
timiiir comprint. I had'bcva£3leted a trtaft
cireadfM]! ajlhiya for about tvvfnt y-;k£:e )*c»s. 1 I
>rvcr Ihr years got any retl.- r.r, \*£s fa j
in the ni^lt:; an.l uf*d an (
a l ' ' »?icr« qu «U'Jty c 4 plutibous tu ; r
irorti my luut* ; au4 my hr«uti» W4*f«* c*ceciii>g
fifttr: thit.l coufl not walk .wrc»f« my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Uiops, I took
tiicm ; and, through taking thrin alone,l am » »w,
blefTcd be CJod !• reflored to jierfe<si health. My
caf_- is wtllknown to th: members of the £bttt?- t
tzr Chapel, in LincoJnVlnu-i'i.-'.d, of which lam i
* o a wienibtr ; and any ot tharn v/ill fclaily fa- ]
any inquiry concerning r!ie truth of-what I I
fay. I am, Jiir, yonr t
NA VMANIEL LAtfCiV.'O'i i'HY, c
No. 8, Grsat wVintniiil flvcet,
Hay-maxktt'
Wirr.cf« t
N. 1. xNcwoßTnr, jnn.No 4?, , I
Paltrrey street, Golden-fquar;. j
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Arc p/cpared and /old (only) by the inventor and 1
file ropii»tor, Dr. James church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. r South Third-itreet, next the Mar.
«cc, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at N^w
ork, by Meflrs. Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street, Ii
vxtd Mis, U'tJman, ji* Wiiliam-llrcet. f (
pr. Church may be cofifulted every clay, at his cl
CJfhce, Soutli Front-flreet, Philada'phia.
r • fart-Tr}- 9. I p (
tialiibury Eltute. , a:
r Subscriber, propofin^To ; i4 » bufi- j».
X Qefs, oifcr* this £4Ute for sale, on moderate
terms. On it arc one J3lail an<J ihree Air Furnaces, |
a complete Borcing Machine, and a very grift !
Mil), with two pair of Hones ; alio a g*o<i Forge, all
in petfrft repair, as;ne ail the Water Works conneft
enl wit)i the ie various branches. The. Air
\yrre Iptdy built lor the purpose f.f casing Cannon
for th's State.— There are abou*. two thoufaod acres
of Land, ojiehalf ps which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
failure. The Camron lately manalatlured there, *
fujly proves the excfilbmcy of the metal; which is Mb
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal ty
to any i > the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns lie
lately made, although lome of the 24 w<*rc bored of
into 32 pounders have biltd on proving-. The fnu- Jd
ition s very eligible, particularly forahis branch of h c
tnanufrfiur , and a place of arms lying in the slate
cf Conneft-.cut. aid only 30 miles from several land Vl]
i.jgs on the liudfon's river, and having every advan-
that can rcfult from a plenty 6f water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Flirnace, J an<
wl.i:h may be concerted into a variety of other j nU
ufcfu! purposes. Ih« purchaser can beaccommodat- j a ,' r
cd with all the ilotk and utensils, and have tlltJ
r belore the fvi It of June next, and preparation arK
tnay be made in the mean time for goi&g into Klaftmi
tpcdiatcjy thereafter, for every pait wjII be delivered hot
jifi good order, with feme Ore, d:c. &C. For ed
terrns, apply to Mr,, Joleph Anth iny, *in Piiiladel- cul
phia; David Brooks, hq. one of theiieprefeatafcives 1
i»i Coftgrefs for thisSta e ; Mr, paVid-Wateiman, on
the prtmifes, or to iji« p-oprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSONV
'' 3iwtf A
(ale o7~tcT bb iet on ground-
rent, sto
■ 1 valuable Lot of. Cround ; wal
ITUATE on ihe nort'ii-eift corner of Wa!- J 0 ' 1
nut and Fifth ftreets,.fronting t(ie State-
House fcfuire. This lot is fifty-one feet ftqnt J.
on Waliiut street, and one hundred and thirteen Pj* 1
feet and an half on fifth ftrett ; there are at
preljpnt two small two ltory Wick houses, and a
Uumbar of small tenements thefeon.
Alfa, for Sale, j ou
TvVo three story Brick Houses lffu
With convcniijit Itores, wtfai si &c. lhnate on tcn
Water-ft rect, between Mulberry and SafTafras I
streets, c:> staining-in fi'olit on Water flreet sis- ]_
ty-four feet, and continuitig that breadth east
ward nir:e:y-five feet, then widenfhg to the
south thirteen feet fix incfits. These houses '
ave the convenience of a public alley adjofhing
on the north fide, anil ate a very ctefirable fitua- A "
tionfora m.-rchant, flour fail or, or others who ? U "
may have'oo'-afltv.i for ftoraje of This
property will be fold on very reasonable tdrms r j
forcafh. For further information applv to the
printsr. r
.fulv ir. m&wtf N
" DANCING SCHOOE
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefetits his Bl
most compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re- v
turns his rao!l grateful thanks, for the verj
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetieiued for j
tnefe twenty-five years pad, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Rrom, Tg
in Sotvth Fourth-Street, between Chefmit and -T
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in'he morning R i'
for ynun? latlits, and iin thj evening for young Phi
gentlemen. tot
Dfr. R. lawtf. acci
COLUMIiIA HOUSE wo j
Boarding School for young Ladie». "
MRS. GROOM BRIDGE With much pleas
ure and reftje*, returns Iter ftneere ac- aY
ltn/iw;j)!gement for the liberal encouragement
the liia rtctiveil during four years refidenee i» ~,
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has inade a superior arrangement for
fh'e more convenient accommodation of her
Scholar,. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mr?.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their 4
j-efpeilive profptTmns. tha
Corner of Spruce and Ele-renth Streets. tlic
Jnne s»lry «797 Jnnfrf cla '
Thefituat'cn is perfe,sUy healthy ; andmade
more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
wtnted; l ,
\ LARGf P.'.RCIL OH
Scantling and other Lumber, D {
—' Suitable fir Ho:if- Building ; )Hr
AJfoa quantity
I art r: aJy to enter into contrails for th% k
b««e articlf s—ajreafonable time may be ullowed An
for prrp«rtns tiwm ; and cash (hall bepaid erthtr (
in »dv»'ice, or.upon tl»tir delivery, as may kc a- c
yri<d ou. —Apply totheSnbfcriber, iiomfe-Car- Ni
penttr, Lombr.r'.l-ltr.Ct, No a. m
John Crcan. j
Decrmbcr 19. dit. J
, . f V;*lu io!e Books,
?i'* J.i!t .ect.'tftd i/t!ie frojr.
JLoftdjn, ar.ri how oj>c ,inr and felling by
•? x ' J. Op.mrop, Jvo. 41, Chelnut Street.
C .i r.UpGI'.E3
or Id. O!>K-i.ewJv uuyV bad gra- 1
us. TJicif iMdfd to OV ufy-fl tnvrr $
nf .« cMewitvc and elr3i.lT. co:U:t! >1 cf :.r.c ci:t and
Imy modein literature, snd > j I'jc
cu's dry languages and on va* ioir* Tu! je<Ti-.
7 ' ':s Dr.' is PuUi&.'J, i
By J. Ormkod, (PniK 75 ceiits, handfomefj
Ijound and letierta, and cmbcl!iihe i! 311
c:cgant t'ro.niiyiiece and fevrnty three > u:t.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
ikot °
ik .t *' T ° R '
nof 1 he Juvenile Friend ;
■h a Being a viivibfe t ob'eiben of inrereiiing and
m'.fcelianeous inciiknts, cakuUted to exhibit to
• ® | y-iuj.g tiiiii.U tlii- <:a.y]>T tfri-dis ot yourhtill in
s I nocence rsd fiiul prose iirjtt veri'e.
e 0 I d ;o improve atnl a.Taufe the riling gctoe
tier ral ) o ,) #
In the Preand will he fpcedijy p-JfjilHteJ,
Dr. darwin-s
hv. Plan oj Female Education.
My Stibfti tptions iot this hicomp trable vrork will v
■iw be thankfully by the printer. Tlife book , t(
am will contain'about three hundred
fa- printed wiilt a new type on fine paper, and dt- I
at I livcred to (ujii.ribers ceatly bound, lettered and '
euibelU/hcd with an elegant f r ontifpiecc, for one i
dollar.
cA > January 3. ?t. |
For Sale, "by the Package, *
For cafn, or good notes at lixty or ninetydays,
I viz. ' Jj.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain ") fa
stripes, and Checks ,n- . • ta
ind | do- do. Tamboured Afiortcd in hj
di- do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & J P a< " a S es * w
ar. gentlemen'c neck do. J hs
w- Jaconet chintz muslin forhome and the Weft ha
et, India market, Pulliccte and lir.enSsndkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
bis chintz lhawls. th
j The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
_ portation. Also a few fcotchcambriuks and an
alTortment of mufiin by the piece. _
j. ; The whole pt the above being a consignment
|te from the manufatflurers in Britain.
C s, | "To be seen at William JBiackburn's
ifl Office, No. 64, South Second Street,
all Nov. is. lawtf.
» MUSIC.
z . 7. L. LENZ, tr
ltr Teacher ol VoSal and inftr'umental Mnfic,
id 15 ffrURNS his fihccre thanks ta the Lfedtes and
e, i-V_ Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
is ttberal encouragement since his refidenee in this cj-
al ty, and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub
ns lie generally, that, in confequtuice of the ruqueft
d of some cf his' friends, he has opened a Muffcsl /
11 - School at his houfu in SprUce Street No 174/ where
he will teach 03 tlie Piano forte,. Violin &c. &C..— ric
lc He deems it ii:ineceffary to eularg? upon the ad Jai
vantages the learner will derive from an in.ticuti- of
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention on
• ; and zcil are ranch excited in. an aff-mbly. where
-' r ! numhers are in pnrfuit of thefanje objea. His
_ arrangement >s fuoh, that an interference of the
„ the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies In
n andGentlamen who cannot make it convenient to j
i- attend at his school, he will wait upon at their j
d house!.. Applications will be thankfullyTeceiv- ]
red at his hoirie, where his terrns and further parti- j
- cula'r* may be known.
1 O ec - 7- _ 'iweod
N OTICI
AI.L persons concerned aTe hereby notified,
that the fnl;fcriber intends to apply for a re
newal ot the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for.,
warded them under cover of a letter addrefled to
. John Anfley,of London, by ths ship Bacchus, capt. r
. George, which left this port in June lail for Lon- X'
( don. But tint thip having been captured ok her V
j I palfage and fent-ti France, the above letter and m
t closures have failed in their deftinatiou. _
Three certificate", viz. (-
' Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and Loi
issued in the name of Henly Grace, of Tot- iuit
j tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia 1 november 8. aaw6w tQII
- TO LET, * Ful
; A Front Room, suitable for an
r Office or Counting house, with a large Cellar. r.
; Any p'.rfon who may rent the above, may (if re- K~
( quired) be accommodated with Board and l.odg
ir.g in the fame house. Enquire at 110. iBo, South r I
Front, near Pine street. X
! December . iaw;w hoi
Uriah Smith, ft I
No. so, north Third street—has for SAf.f., re
A neat and general assortment of
; Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also, (
' A variety of Gentlemens' fjfliionable fancy Waist- har
coating, silk Hosiery, &c. I
December c *eodiw
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROIJD,
IS new in the press, and will be publiflied, '
with all convetiient expedition, by Zecha
. RIAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
; Philadelphia, where fubferiptioni will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
J"ly 18. lawtf
This Day is Published,
. iiY Mcff. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Jtic and the
c other Booksellers,
k Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
. Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hot'
r pressed,
r By John Thompson,
r A COMPARATIVE VU-iW OF
The Constitutions
r Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tablee,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
claflingtogether their most itnpertant provisions,
e under the,fc»#al heads of administration ; with
Notes aiwiObfervatiow. |\
By WILLIAM SMITH, -13
Of South-Carolina, | )eei
L L. D. and member of the Congress cf the
United States. tne
Dedicated to th« People of the United States. law
N. B. A few Copi s printed on an inferior -a- t r ° r "
per, at j-4th«of a dollar. ,rtt '
• Pubiifhci,
| And to be hid or Messrs. Dobfon, Camp"oe!l,R; C r I
Csry, and the other pricip.il BookftUcrs in tKe'
. city.price one dollar, twinty-f;tecent s> in boards
■ New Views of the Origin of the F
Tribes and Nations of America !?<•'
By BENJAIJIN SMITH BARTON, D * qu ',
Jnne ;o. -or I.
j At a Meeting of tae4> rectors
07ft j ° -I'.e !./a anew of Nort i America, ac
bv ! *'• ol «. ihis ci^y, the dividend for the lift fix
. ' Hc:rfu Was <Jc«lar<.*d to be cap dollar and fifty
e nr. on each f*arc <>f the (lock, *.vh;:h wiij' be ■
&iiu to the Stockholder*, cr th'tir le d r '.I rep#e£:d:a- f
I t'.Ves, utjr+ny iiny -J©rr lie I£i i:>".
, 2 ;' ' fiAZ'A&p, *
f! Kury 8. O— yj tißth
~ FOR S iLt7^r r
William Priestman, j
| 129, South Front-ilreet, nexp door to tiic Cuf-
e '> toin-Hnulf, i
3I J A !a/-y. affortmer.t cf
Gold and fiiver Watches
' A Tiice Kieeper, by Arnold ! c
S -m< plated CinJleilicki
Double baireled fiuns, bv V: 1;: i:r*raaker ! C
;n ,l to tbe Kins-os England | S
to 1 Ditto, by j D
in- t>i ' r du-l!in 0 - l';fl»!;).by Knub'ey, Charing '"■
•it. Cr.'s &
He- •jJi' e fe J P r » by liior'igbt
ot ''
60 !•!>. Sc<»t rh T r<*ail P_
Bmr I Cviittv'livMi'di* Valuable Books, and
B )\s at Prints
•ill acres of Linti in one Jot t upon the
1 Sandy, in M'afon county, Kentucky, pa- r ~
. I tented by P"r;tcjl Cut!er r aq. 1757.
Jf 1 -Alio, 14 Lake F.r;c L vjs cu
"j I ivoices or parcels of Watches bought. w
11 j /a 11 nary a. d7t TJ
ne 1 —?
60 Dollars Reward. 0 f
RAN AWAY from the fu! fcriber, on the 24th tit
of December, 1797, a N.gro Man, about 22 tal
years old, by the name of Cat ), he is about 5 feet rij
8 > 7or 8 inches high, milling well proportioned ;he E>
hat a very coaife voice, his fore teeth stand very wl
far apart; there were one or two with him—l th;
n cannot rightly describe the doaths he took with to
him, for he took two or three fyits ; he had on the
when he went away, a pair of ktrfey trowfers, a pa
half worn drab coloured coat, a half woTifwool
;ft hat; he took with him four very good Ihirts—l fuc
ts, *xpc«sl he has made for Philadelphia or tho Jerseys. or!
id Vv'hofoever takes up laid negro -aid f.ayreshjm, so th<
that the owner may get him again, ttjgjl have the th<
above reward, paid by m#, JOHN MOORE,
m living Pond, Kent county, Maryland, cei
January a. £ *6l2aW vei
1,1 For Sale by theSubferibers, " t d
» s Printe Iticein rjjhe!e and-/.\i!f tierces eot
EMt'J.eCtux Brandy Sal
'Teneyiffe IVi'iic
< • $1 <!«•
os<frg:a-and Garoltr.n Indigo ; t ' lc
Rai'fns Duck and one ho'gjhead of pai'it c -'
■ brujbts. I
d N- &J. Frazer. j_J
y h'o. 95, South Front Street. A.
' "■ . dim
Weill Kaifms.
il A Snail rsrgo, jiifl arrived, arid no-« landing ;tj
e U\. at Chefmirlttcet wharf, fioiti the sloop Ya- I -j[
rico; capt. Haftell, confiftiHg of Kegs, Boxes and > an(
I Jars. A few Jits of excellent Grapes, and sacks p e ,
1. of foft fhellcd AlniondS.-—Apply to the Malter o,„
t, on board, cr to V - " 0 J
yes. Anthony & Co. f»p
* December 19 §<t 1
s Imported ( via New York) on the
3 ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for rea
r sale by tike subscriber, at No. 61, Chelteut street, tun
between Second and Third Streets, tliie follow* "1
ing articles . cha
Maharagonges Charcofina Dorsns r.
Chnlrz and Calicoes Dacta worked muflin3
Gilhs RbiiQp BamlaiUit.cs '■* Oi
Nillas & Pecliafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullh-wkerchiefs
r Patna do. Baimres Opium
Leffcr Cardimum Seeds'.> .
, Samuel Wilcox.
November 27 tuths4w I
Chocolate qrid Madai d, s
of a superior quality manufaiflUred,
GINGER and tepper, ground ; flic-lied or j
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Pur»tr, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale- ;
' London Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
• suitable ftr exportation or home conftiniption.
The highest prke given for Mulhird-Bc'ed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Boc'kin'gf and
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bale of F
- Fultiani, Shawls, &c, for sale by £
JOHNHAWORTH, & c
No. 98, south Front-ftreef.
no-v. it. m.&th.t.ij.
' A House in Burlington for bale.
THE fubferiber ha? a large, convenient two
flory brick House, with Stables, Carriage-
Jioufe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
"W
SfcLL. For terms apply at Wo.
street, to GEORGE WALKER, " :S^
Who hat alfu for Sale,
Lots in Washington City, •'
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal ,
■ hafbour. W
December sq. eo7t ~
FOR SALE, 1 ' n ' r .
By the Subscrher, at 'his Store, No. 75, South a_l
V.'ater-ftfe'et, fo> ,
A geheral aflbrtmsnt of China —-
Ware _ N
, Black and coloured Sattins
. Do. do. iiHteftrisgs '^ e '
( 130. da. Handkerchiefs
Do. do.
Imperial and Hyson Teas mon
Longand short ' >c r
Quick Sitvcr, In tubs et f*
Holland Oui, i:, pipes
Afforred Giafs Ware, in cases ch r ° l
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes V, ' a!
Molafles, in hOgiheadj
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira \Vine ' wo
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks r,b ' c
Red, yellow and pal; Barks, in theft, " he
Logwood, &c. &c. " ICI^
»"■ 7- — JOSEPH SIMS. ot!
, Davis s Law Book Store. >ng,
the I
No. 319, High-Street. be £'
; GEORGE DAVIS, Km
BEING bnfied for some time past in prepara- °rs <
tions for removing into his profent house, has mor
been under theneqeflityof poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro' # '
the TTbfyed State*, tL-it hi, spring importation of hia j
law books id now arranged and ready for lale, 011 Giln
tormsthat he trusts will entitle him to tho like pre- and
freence he l'ur iev.ual years p uh
CaMiogioacu-iuiiigr the bio ft varied collec
tion t c ver or ted country, arc printed
and will be delivered on afiplioation. -w t
r 2 7- - law J7l
Lodgings Wanted, r rL r
Fun,ifhed or unlurniflied for a Gentleman, La- I
dy and servant two or three gen; k J Rooms r.nd p
aGarrct ; limited Socth of Market ft: cet—Eh- cl,a
quire of the Pnoter. edit -
c ' 'it Cl.j
i *f- > . v
rs JUST RECEIVED,
at (via New-York)
f. x ; AND NOV/ OFENING, BY
George Dob son,
'-•> Su iaiiffi J'ftird Drect,
. . An <r;;tvufi\'c ?.nd Yeneral aflbrtment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bcft I.'s:r;;on n\:*t Pius Galieons and Ftvrets
CoiuWfon do. do. Wtfriled Bindii^s.alTar-
Makenzii'.-f. p.r.nater.t ted coJ,o»rs
jf- white chapel N etlic. I Imperial, diiper, and
Nuns Thrssd ui.<> ro J Thread Ta;>es
40, reeuUr'y aborted j While- £dging»
l.'fle do 69*. r?0 t':> j~- I 'Black nd eoioured Chi
regulaviy a;,i>j :td | nefe RibbaAds
: CiuTui ed j Sauin and figured do.
h&ifewioj SiiJr* | B'p.rkVelvet, r>-4 to i;d
cr Coitured do. ari l Twi.l i V'jJvei A. f eloii SartißS i
, Silk and eottbn Wires Fi er(ch Cai»!>rick -
Do. -Co. Ribbands Atiajp do.
lg ' aliirt wild", and Wire* 1 i'JJUi gilt.aKi] pkted i
Black Irufa j ' ;'JiuUo'i:s '
• And 3 alTiirttneut of f :kaV.a I
:0 t'-.e pr<deiit and fealoa, at i'Jdg-.-d 1
p- ice, Dec. 6. dtf
New-Theatre,
ie December 11, 1797. 1
l " "rHE Ma.vagsks particularly request.the con-
S. c.urrcoce of tbe public in tiie abolition of a
cuftoai, which has hitherto obtained,"of giving a
v/ay or difpoling of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre. "J
1 hey are aware that gentlemen are unconfoious,
of any wrong done to tie intereli of the inititu- I
h tioijby this practice, from a general, though mif
i taken idea that Checks are die repr; I'eqtatives of a f
•t right to many feats in the Theatre, during an
e Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
y when in fa<3, they were never intended as more
I than toltns by which the Door-keepers are enabled
h to afcertairf with the leall trciuble to iheparties,thrit
they tbentfelvtl have Ix'en before in the Iheatre, or 0
1 paid for their admifiion.
I Independent of the injury the Managers fuflain,
I such a practice encourages a croud Of' idle boy's and
odicr difordcrly psrfons to f'ul-round the doors of r
3 the Thca're, to the 001 ruption pf.their morals arid ''
e the great annoyance of the Audience. '
It has also been thefource of two evils of no in- 1
. Cenfi'itcrabk mignitud'e; one iv that fuhictimes 1
very improper company is by these means admit- o
ted ; and the other, that owin,J to Checks passing ' ti
into dillioneU hands, they have be n fre<iuenaly *
counterfeited to a largfe amount f«>r the V
Sale. b
This ftartenient will, it is refpe<slfullf to£cd, in- v
duce the Poblic to difcouragc ft*&iytitrrd—--
- the exertions of 'Managers will, if thus aflifted,
t easily p*We adequate to l?s entire abolition. r
| WIGNELL & REINAGLE. L
j December 13 iw
Mujical Instrument Manufactory^
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOTIiRS OF HARMONY. j
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends arid the public, that he has 2
now rea'dy for sale, a few of hit new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with A
' Pedals", patent fwdl, fonqpahaot'arid French harp J3
flop, vyhich for sensibility of touch, brilliahcy of I
toilc, simplicity and dutabjiity of conftrucSlrbn, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a finale tri-
al will con Vinci the unprejudiced judge—As they
; are manufa&ured under his immediate
I t)f the tery be>: feafone<l materials, he can fell "on j c
reasonable terms for GasiT. Inftrumsnts repaired, C
tuned, &c. 5
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken, in ex- p
cliange for new. q
htr6 ember 18. 2aw2mo.
Samuel & Miers fifiier" I
ARE NOW OPEN ING, A
At their Wareiioufe.No. 27; Dock Street, afrefh *
affortnient bf Wooien and other "goods, Tuitable tb C
thel'eafon, received "by the late arrivals from Ene-
land. ° N
Thev have also for Sale,
Lilbon C
- "
Port \yines, J
AfTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
Idthmo* d 1 -v3 lavv3 -a-. A
City of VyafhiagtoD. f
SCHEME «
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City. ' L
AmagnifidemdweHing-houfe ao,oocdollars, :
& cafe 30»ood, are ' st>,<so. 1
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 40,00 V ao
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000 c
1 ditto 10,000 & caih 10,000 »0,000
\ ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000 1
t ditto 5,d00 & ca()i 5,000 10,000
1 cash prizi of io,oclo
■x do. each,arej « 10,000 -r
' to do. 1,000 - - io,Ooc
10 do. 500 - - io,cco s(
serdo- 100 - - ro,occ 0 i
JOO do. 50 - . • 10,000 ar
4®o d,J. 15 - - I(i,ooo
I.ddO (Id. 10 - 10,000
15',66ti do. 10 - >50,000 la
16,739 Prizes.
3j,»6i Blanks.
50,000 at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan- t ' l
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be I_K
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either 21
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for ariynumbcr not lets thin "Jo tick
ets.
This Lottety will afford an elegant fpetimen of
the private buildings to be ereited in thp City of N
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already T
ieleAedfor the entire ironts on two of the public £
squares; from thefedrawiagsitispropofcdtoeredl tit
twocentreand 'ourcorner buildings.a.s foonas pof- ap
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, dy
when complete, to the fortunater adventurers, in cr
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel be
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will co
be made to defray the necefiary expenses ol print- ed
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of la.
the fund intended for t>he National Umverffty, to pu
be erected within the city of Walhiugtoti.
Thejcalfecudtiesgiven for the pa-merit of the p<
Prizes, are held by the Prefidcnt and two Direil- in
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at Pr
more than half the amount of the lottery. Ti
SAMUEL J'LOPGMT. th
.5. Tickets may be had ar the Uanh oi Colam- pa
bia ; of Jame3 Well & Co. 2altimorc; of I'(,-ttr on
Oilman, Lofton ;of John Hapkias, Hichm.rid ti<
and r- r vlr.f-.i-.' v r «l|t. n on r c-'o I'r-rrvj- pi
Samuel Pleafants &
ao. 74, South Secondflreet, be
HAVE received a lupply of Seafonablp GOODS, ns
which they are now opening for sale, oj>
ycafonaMe terms. "OiS 27. —4\y-
Alphabetical Lill of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Met- L
chaadize, into the United States—latest tei
edition, to be fc!d by JOHN ORMR.OD, 110. 41, nn
Chifmu-llreet. Dec. 16 —i
This Day PubljfheJ,
An J to be fold, by WILLIAM YOUNG, earner of
Second and Chtfnut ftre-cts,
P i r! " °f " n*"",
Obfervahovs on (ertain Documents
, Contained i«,"No.V and VI „f
0- " The Hiflory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
111 wh:c!l the CH ARGE Of SPECULATION Egaidll
or- ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret irv of the Treasury, is FULLY
ind REFUTED.
IT RIT TE N Br UIMS EI F.
This publication presents a concise statement
hi- ol 'he bale means praAifed by the Jacobins of the
Untied Stares tu asperse the chaiailersof those
purlins who arc considered tus Itoflile to their difor.
2$ .gaihzin£ lchemes. !t llfo. cdntains the cor
rel'nonderce between Mr. Hamilton and MeflW.
Monroe, IViuMenburgh and Vi nab>e, on tile ftib
je6iof the documents aforefaid, and a fel-iej of Jet
e-d tern from James Reynolds and his wife toMr.Ha
,«.lton, proving beyond the poflibility of i doubt,
!o that the connexion between hintdnfr Reyi.t®S»,
i;d wis the refuit ol a copfpiraiiy on the fart
of Che latter aucTlli. CfrotiatL. l . to extort IMQnCX-
A diicouHt of one third from.the retail price
will be made in favor of wholesale purchasers, for
casii. Orders to beaddrefled to Mr. Young
Au?uH 2 9 .
a Yellow" Fever and Peltilentiaf
ie Diieafes.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&avo.
- v By William Young, Boolfellcr,
No. 52, Second flrea, the corner of Chxifmit llreet,
-- (Price, in boarJt. o; I 1 Cents)
a Neatly printed on fine American wove medium'
11 ' P.iper,
• A VIEW
J Ol the Science of Life ;
r 'he principles eftatlifhed in ths elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
i, . JOHN BROWN, M. D.
d an attempt to correft some important er
f 10 r * of that work, and cases in lllufiration, c'liicf-
ly feleiled from the records'of their pratftice, zt
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
1- Br William Tat&s & Chas. Maclean.
s To which is FubjoineiY, a 'freatife on the aiiuii
of Mercury upon liviiig bodies, and its applies
g tion for the cui'e of difc-afes of indiretfl dtbiiity.
y Andatlifl'ertation on the sources of Epidt-micand,
'• Peftitentialdiii»afe~s; in whicßisaftemptetltcprove
by a rnlmeVous induflion cf fatfls, that they ne
~ ver a rile from crintagldft, but are alwayVfwod*,.
cetTby certain flatcs, fffcLMm'ir'yic7ffirudefi of
' the atraWphere, by CHAUt-ts Maglian, of
Calcutta.
_jiov_ir. j lJt
FOR SALE, bj
' Joseph Anthony Co. *•<
No. 5,' Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice BoUrdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, just hrtided "
■> 250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
li 9 do. -Sum, do do
a A quantity of heavy black pepper ia bales
,> Bourbon Indigo of the fir.'t qoslity
: High proof jacmaica lnirits
Old London particular Madeira v.'ine 7 In pipes &
v do - market do . ( qr.'caiks.
! . New England rum ih hogflieads
11 Genuine Holland Gin
i Claret in cases "•
Sptrmaeeti'candles and ftrain'd oil
- Prime Boston beef
Choice Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. HerringMrf'do'" co
Bed B< fton Mackarcl in barrels of the fail fare.
j Neiv-Eiiglah'd tow l : «eh '
A few tons of Emilia cordage
h Ruflia father beds ° »
■ 0 Clover atrd Tin-.Othy fcrd ln :alks
. l ong whale-tone
Sfo I, and 3, Boilon Tail cluck
A -c'.v chells firß quafity HyfonTea
Carolira fke in whole a.'id haft tierces and
" NtVL "' l>6r S ' " daw.
1 'his day is'Publifiied,
At the office ol the Aurora, No. ns, Market Street
f Pi ice one do'ijr <o.d a half,] '
A view of the conduit of the EXECUTIVE in the
FOREIGN AFFAIRti of the United Slates, c'onneff
ed with the Million to the irencb Reputl.c during
the years, t 794, ',,6.
By JAMES MONROE,
' Late Mii|ilter Plenipotentiary to the laid Republic
IBiiftrsted by lire INSTRUCTION*and COK
' RESPO'NDENCE and oilier authfntic documents.
A very libeial allowance to those who buy to fell 1
' J again.
0 December 23. «g t
r, School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O UN G,
" No. 12, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
0 T.T As now ready for sale, a very large aiTort
-1 i-A nieilt of Englijh, French, Latin and Greek
n SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfo y such eletiientary books
0 oiJ Science, as are generally read in the academies
2 and colleges throughout the United States.
n LATELY PUBLISHED,
0 Sheridan's Diftionary, the sixth edition, in one
a large vol. 8 vo". price 3 dols.
Ditto, large ri mo price 1 dol 75 cfs.
Ditto, co'ivjnon, price 1 dol. 50cts.
All sous of drawing, packing, printing, and *
. wutingJJajttrt Bookkinder*. B«ara«.Tuaeuo;.rd»,
j meathiwg and blotting Papers; prir.ted Blajiks,
blank Books, Wax, W'JTers, and other articles, cf
_ the betl quality, used in t.\c counting house' or
c public office.
r CT Catalogues of a mifceliatieous. collection of
BOOIiS, with tljeprice of each affixed,'to be had
f by inquiring ni above. O&. 14.—taw6w
J LAV/ BOOKS, '
Latest London and Dublin Editions,
f H. yP. RICE, Booksellers,
1 No. Ife, South Second, and N0.'50, Market {lreet.
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals front'
London and Duhii-.i, their fnrlr.g importa
-1 tion, confiftfng of a variety of thelatei) and mcli
- approved 3aw Books, wliicfc, added totht-fe »lrea
» on hand, forms the moft&te*ft*fi idlle'fHohev
-1 cr oSercdfor sale id this country. Th'ey'tfi'.'cfoi-tl
1 beg leaveto notice, that, l-ron; the naEtire of th«r
1 conne-Sicnsin Dublin, they arc enabled td k'll Irilh
- editions (as they' have hitherto done) at ihc very
r l'owell prices. The following are anion" th- late.t
) publication.!.
Vefey, jus'i's Reports 111 Chancery, 2
Peak, o CaJes at Nili Pritis ; R: ig( way's Rc.orttf
- in the time of Lord 1-larilwicfc-e"; Floyer's Probers
t I-ra(9ire in the EecttfiafUcal Cduns; Barton's
Treatifc oil a b.U'it in Eooitv ; Tidd's Pradljce of
the Cotirt of Kirk's flehch iii I'erfonal Aaioßs,3
- WaitiVLaw us Nations ; .Crtiife
: Oil Ui'es ; modern Ri-puits, ij vols. Loudoa edi- ———
tion.
H. and P. Rise c.TpeiSl t% leceivc 1))' ti •<: i. '•tl ST -
rive; fioiß New-VorVtlti; : th vol. comnkae of
Durnford atiil Eaii's Reports, theedpa:tof Oih.
bert'3 l.aw of Evidence by 1 ?ft, and a nuniber of
new publications.
, J-une -t>.
Wanted, Jo Hire,
A Large and cocvanknt HOUlSl?, ia or tw-r
the centre of tl* city— fcr>l:ich a R'awrius
tent will be given; to be t alien lor a yc"-, or , ,
more, for a Joajer tens, C Pti't.',-