of UliUtfH AND Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
,4
IlUMO£t 1814-J
CONGRESS.
IJOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, June 13.
MR. CRAIK prefenteid an address from
Montgomery county, Maryland, ex-
of approbation of the conduct of the
Executive in its ocepemtion with the French
republic.—Referred as usual.
Mr. Gallatin, fr®ui the committee to
whom was referred a bill from the Senate to
authorize the faie of certain lands between
the Great and Little Miami rivers in the ter-
Jritoi'y of the United States, north-weft of the
phio, and forgiving the pre-emption ro cer
tain purchasers 3nd fetrlers ; and the bill to
authorise a gra-.t of lauds to Stephen Mbnot,
find other inhabitants of Gal'.ipolis therein
named, reported that the former ought to be
palled with amendments, and the latter with
out. The bills were committed.
Mr. J. Parker, from the committee to 1
.whom was referred the biU to alter the time j
making entry on (tills, as the
op nion of the committee that all the amend
ments ought to be agreed to, except one.
The Speaker informed 'he houle that the
hour was arrived at which a call of the house
u0 ordered, and that the clerk would pro
ceed to the call. He did so, when it appear
ed that ail the members were present but
three, except such as are absent on leave or
lick. Two of the three absent members ap
peared in the courfeof the lining, and on mak
ing apologies v. ere exciHed
she b'll providing tor the valuation of
houf.'S and lands and the enumeration ot
slaves within theUrired States, was then read
*he third time, and upon *he question being
put, " Shall this bill pass .
Mr. Dan is said, he was under the necefli
ty of oppolmg the parage of this bill. No 1
part of the community would contribute more
chcarfully, to 'lie extent of their ability, to
the support of the general government, than
his constituents ; but from the knowledge he
had of their situation, of the l'carcity ot circu
lating medium amongst them, from the want
of a market tor their iurplus he could
not give his vote in favour of a tax which it
would be with great difficulty they would be
able to pay. The people of Kentucky he said,
had produce of every kind, inabundance, but
they wont a market for it. The Mississippi
had a medium through which
tp transport it ; but as yet little advantage
has been derived from it ; and, whenever a
war thall take place, it may be expected that
t!>ey would be deprived of the advantages
which the free navigation of that river pro
mises to the vwedern country.
Mr. f). said, when he came from home, he
did not think the coin in circulation in Ken
tucky amounted to 10,000 dollars, and since
that period, he was informed that money had
become dill morefcarce. If he thought the
tax would be paid without great difficulty, he
would .have cheerfully voted for it ; but be
lieving the contrary, he was condrained to
give his vote against it.
Mr. W. Claibornf. (aid, the people of
TenneflTee, are, in a great degree linnlarly li
tuated with thole of Kentucky. Every one
enjoyed the neceUar.es of life, but few of
them experience thoie conveniences which
jflow from wealth. Money is a scarce article
amongii them ; and when he reflected upon
the present fttuation of things, and the proba
bility there is that the avenue which is lately
opened forthe.difpofildf the surplus produce
ofrhe date, will soon be closed, he feared
his condituents would be illy able to pay this
tax. But if, as the gentleman from N. Caro
lina (fylr. Ma.co«j)>ona former occasion filg
geded, be Ihoud be mifiaken in this respect, J
and that tUe people of Tenneflee arc well a- |
ble the tax, he ihould rejoice in the
event. Fearing thecontrary, however, when
he heard the people complaining of th s griev
ous burthen, he w-ihed to have th? confolfi
tion 0/ faying, il I did not to this
law," because I.was of opinion that its ope
jation would be particularly opprellive to the
wedern people.
Mr. ,G.a i la tin observed, it would beex
troiTvel-y difficult to point out any mode of tax -
tttion which will not be inconvenient«and op
prertive in feme decree to fume parts of the
people to pay ; a; d it must be expected that
every mode whifch can be adopted, will bear
more hardly on lome parts of the community
ttun on dthers. With respeCt to the tax on
land, he mud agree with the gentlemen from
Kentucky and lenncliec, that from their be
ing a less quantity of circulating medium in
their dates than any other (tare of the union,
if would probably fall heavier upon their con -
fUtuents than up. n people of the Atlantic
it ares. But there is one consideration, with re
ipeft to those dates, wh eh oufrht to be taken
into consideration, viy.. that the tax for this*
year will be laid according to the old census,
tal;en (even or eight years ago, lince which
time it is well known that the population of
these has more than doubled. There
fore, the inconvenience of paying this tax
will bk grctu I y to these dates by that
circumltauce. In the state of Tennellec, by
iheold census taken in 1791, there were only
35,c00 inhabitants, whereas by acenfuS tak
cn in that (tpre by theinfelves two years agp,
/the number exceeded 60,000.
Beiides, it appeared to hi:n that both the
-gentlemen atfumed a principle, by no means
• afcertaiiied, viz. that the Miifiliippi will be
ihortlv closed to the western country 1 . No
people could fuffer more by such an event
jrhanthe people whom he himfeif represented.
1 hey itood prec fely in the fittYation of the
conftitileiits of those gentlemen ; and un
doubtedly if our preipnt difficulriei with
prance mould produce a war vVith Spain, it
would be extremely fatal to his conltituents
AS well as theirs. But he knew of 110 reason
i\»r Itippoling th s ; and it would be Wrong to
legillate on a presumption that such will be
the cafe.
In relation to this law, it wasviot formed
Mr. G. said, altogether to Ivs wish ; but it
wjs :h nearly foas he could get it, and it was
necetmy the money should be railed. He had
oppofeel as long and as forcibly as he was able
mo(t of the meaiures which made the great ex
feuces iff the j>refent fellion necellary ; but a
majority having determined that theexpence
fl»;iM be incurred, and that meaiures shall be
ujeen which will ucceflarily decreafeour pre
ienf reyemie, it is become the duty of
nu nbcrto urov.de rlie means for paying t!.e
t-\ i to be incurred, and forfupplying the
pf. oablc deliciencics offorjjer revenues.
if theexpence Uto be provided for, how is
it 10 be done ? It mud be either by tax at on
By John Fen no, N°- 119 Cbefmit Street.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, JULT 5, 1798
or by loans. Indeed, it is probable Congress
will be obliged to resort to loans, even during
the pr.efent felfion ; but certainly it is their
duty, as for as they aVc able, to provide for
the public expences, into mea
iures which Wjll increase the public debt.
Our choice lies, therefore, betwixt loans and
taxation, and however inconvenient it may be
to the people to pay ta.xcs, he fbould certain
ly resort to raxes than loans. And if the mo
ney is to be raised by taxes, to what objeists
can we turn our attention ? Congress mud
have recourse to internal revenue, or an in
crease of duty 011 the importation of foine of
the neceflTaries of life. Indeed, after turning
his attention very ferioudy to the subject, he
could not find how any considerable revenue
could be raised, but by means of a direct tax
on land and houfes,ora tax on fait. He did
not think any other could be relied upon ;
and between the tiyo, he believed it would be
infinitely better, both for the United States
and his condituents, to lay a tax on laiid and
houses, than on fait. The tax on land and
houses will be laid according to the value ot
the property ; and though there is less circu
lating medium in the back country, which is
thinly fettled, than in the large towns, the pro
perty in those parts wil! be at a much
lower rate, and ofcourfe the people will have
a smaller proportion of the tax to pay ; and
he thought ir far preferable to lay a tax which
would tall, in a great degree, upon persons
according to their wealth, than one which
would operate as a poll tax, as a tax on fait
would do, according to tfycir number.
Mr, G. said, he was of opinion that an an<-
nual tax would be fufticient, and that we need
not have recourse to loans.
It was neceflary, Mr. G. said, at all events,
that this biil Ihould pass ; for if it could be
proved that our revenue would be fnfiicient
» ir this year, it would be a good argument
why the tax fliould not be laid for this year,
but not againd making the valuation of pro
perty propded by this bill ; for, if war takes
[ place, it will bi convenient to have this va
luation made, upon which a tax may be l>*id.
Therefore, though he knew it would prove
inconvenient to feme of his condituents, as
well as to those ®f the gentlemen from Kentuc
ky and Tennelfee, he would nevertheless vote
for the palling of this bill.
Mr. Harper had the pleasure ofbeing per
suaded in his own mind, from the fmaTl perfo -
nal knowledge he had of the Wedern Coun
iy, that the gentlemen from that part of the
country represent as little the true situation,
as they do the real convenience of their con
dituents. He could not persuade himfeif that
the people of the States of Kentucky and
Tennellee would be unable to pay this tax,
and dill less, that those people would be rea
dy to lay their rights and independence at the
feet of a foreign power, sooner than pay for
the defence of them. The o.bjeftion made
to this tax, is not that it i$ improperly laid,
or as being unnecelTary for the defence of our
country. It is not said that the objects which
Congress have already undertaken for the de
fence of the country, cat) be provided for in
any other way ; but the house is told that the
people tvill be unable to pay this tax—their
proportion of the ex pence of measures which
are neceilary for the defence of their rights
and liberties. This was a da'ement whichhe
was certain the people of those dates will ne
ver allpw to be correct. He believed it to
be founded altogether in midake, and he be
lieved it would be prcved to be so, by the
prompt manner in which people will pay 1
this tax. He had no duubt the gentleman ;
who made this datemjent thought it weil
founded ; but he believed they had fuffercd
fears to blind them : for he never would
believe whdd heconfidered them Americans,
; and hijnlelf one, that the people of those
! dates will lay that they arc unable to pay their
I share of the expence of the defence of their li-
I b rties. No ; they will spurn the idea, and
; prove tbemlelves worthy of enjoying that li
j berty, which they assisted to obtain with their
blood, by declaring that they aru able and
wilting to contribute their portion in the de
fence of their country. He would not hint
j icli lo far insult them, as to fugged the idea
; ot exempting them from the payment of their
diare of tUe expence of that defence, much
less to insinuate that they would place thein
felves in the situation of paupers, and claim
to be exempted. On the contrary, he woud
repeat it, that they would pay their shares of
this expence with cheerfulnefs ; and
venture to fay, that in nuking titis declarati
on, he represented the feelings of the people
of thole States better than their immediate
representatives, who affer ed the contrary ;
and he was willing to reft his credit upon the
avowal.
Mr. Davis said, he believed he could
prove to the gentleman from Pentifylvania
(Mr. Gallatin) that his conditions with res
pect to the ability of the people of the date of
Kentucky to pay this tax, were not altoge
ther correct ; and that the number of the peo
ple inhabiting the date now, bein£ double
what it was when the lad census was taken,
will afford them no relief. For if there were
10,000 dollars in circulation in the date, when
there were only 30,000 inhabitants, and no
more now thare are 150,'00, the tax would
fall no lighter now than it would have fallen
then. How, it might be enquired, does it
happen, that though the population is so
greatly increased, no increase Ihould have
been made in the quantity of circulating fpe
cie ? It happens thus. Men who emigrate
tram the Atlantic States to this country, sel
dom bring much money with them ; for what
ever they may have when they let out, it is
expended on their journey, or paid for land
to a single person when they reach us, so that
none ot their money comes into general cir
cular on; and though the people are able to
raise plenty of produce, they are not able to
exchange it for money. It is true, the more
inhabitant? they got, the more the general
property ot the date is increased, but it did
not increase the circulating medium. He did
not believe there is now so much money in
circulation, as there was when thecenfuswas
taken. There was then an army there, and
produce fold for a g<>od price; but since a
peace was made with the Indians, 'money has
been constantly draning oft* from the date, to
pay the debts which the mercltants of that
date had contracted whild trade was bnfk in
this and other cities.
Therefore, as personal property is not fax
ed, as tlu- people who go there carry with
them no llaves, and as tlier<- are tracts
of unapproj t a'ed land which the State has
let cut free from taxes, and which will not
pay any part of this tax, the people of Ken
ucKy wi.o will have to pay this tax, will not
be much relieved by the Sates increased po
pulation.
The gentleman from Pcnnfylyania fays his
conHituents would feel the fame inconveni
ence from the doling of the navigation of the
riyer Miflillippi, that the people in the Wef- j
tern States would feel. This he did not think
correct ; for though it would be very incon
venient tor the pfeople on the other lide of the ,
Alleghany to carry their produce to an eifler
ly market, they could nevertheless do it; but
from the State of Kentucky, it would be iin
pollible for produce to be sent from thence to
the Atlantic cities; they mu.ft, therefore,
trade down the Miffiflipni, or not at all.
As to the gentJe.lll an from S. Carolina, he
did not believe lie either represented the feel
ings of the people of "Kentucky or Tenneflee,
or knew their interests ; though it is not the
firlt time lie had heard that gentleman H-fluwe
to himfelf more knowledge than every body
e!fe. lie denied that he represented the lee
lings of his constituents. On the contrary, he ;
was persuaded, that he himfelf nad represen
ted them truly, when he fa id', that they will
be willing to pay any tax for the i'upport of
the General Government, which they are able
to pay; but he doubted, from his intimate
acquaintance with their circumHances, *
| ther they would be able to pay.this tax, and
; on thisaccount it was that he proposed to voje
again# it. He did not come here, as the gen
tleman from S. Carolina had represented, to
claim an exemption from this tax for his coo-
Hituents,'on account of their poverty. He |
Ihould vote against the bill, becaule he knew
it would fall opprellively on his conHituents, •
and the gentleman from S. Carolina Jis wel- j
come to all the credit which he can obtain for :
a Her ting the contrary. But every person in ]
the lea It acquainted with the Star.i trona which ]
lie came mult know that the people cannot
command money, though they have an abun
dance of produce. When he lett home, he
could have purchased ahy quantity of Indian
corn at half a dollar a barrel; but men with
their (tores full of produce, could not, per
haps, produce a dollar incalh. Another rea
son why money is so scarce is, that during the
Indian War, merchants sent out quan
tities of goods, and when peace was made (he
people were much indebted to the merchants,
which they had been compel led to pay as fait as
they could c*Jlecfc it, and the merchants there
had sent oft' the money to discharge their
debts here and in other places, as he had al
ready dated.
Mr. W. Claiborne rose ; when
The Speaker delired he would confine
himfelf to the queltion before the houle, as
the gentlemen who had already spoken, had
wandered very much from the subject.
Mr. C. hoped he Ihould be permitted to
make a few remarks upon what had fallen
from Hie gentleman from S. Carolina. The
eloquence ef that gentleman all mull allow is
great ; but it mult also be admitted that he
does not always apply it to the mod proper
purposes. He has rold the house that he (Mr.
C.) as the representative of the {tote of Ten
neflee misrepresents the feelings of his confli
tuents; as attributing to them sentiments
which they will despise.
TheoPEAKER laid the geritleman from S.
Carolina did not fay so ; di/wvoiv was the word
he used and Mr. C. changed the word accor
dingly.
That gentleman has observed, that the peo
ple of '1 eiinelfee will confifkr this as a quelti
un whether they will fuffer their rights and
independence to be abandoned to a foreign
power. Theie remarks had no weight upon
ins inind. Mr. C. laid, he had Hated, and
Hated truly, that the people of Tennell'ee
would be illy able to pay a land tax of
which this bili lays the foundation. He never
represented them as willing ro abandon their
rightsand independence. Were h? to throw
out any such idea he llioujd calumniate the
people whom he represented. They have lit
tle treasure to bring forward for the fejrvice of
the public, but they have valiant blood to !
Ihed ; and when the queltion ft)ail arrive whe- \
ther thts country fhallgive up its In dependence > \
if the gentleman of S. Carolina and lie Ihould
live to that period, he doubted but they
would fee the people of I enneiiee amonglt
the foremoH, in the ranks to defend it. Dulce j
eji propatriamoriy was a laying, tlie truth ot
which, the freemen of that ltate admitted, and !
he had 'he happineis to believe, that they
would think itjiveet to die for. their country.
The gentleman from PeririfylvE.ua (Mr.
Gallatin) had laid, that the measures which
had chiefly created % tbe neceflity tor this tax
had not met with his approbation. He could
himfelf fay the fame thing ; but a majority of
the American Government having thought
them proper, he Ihould do all in his power to
carry them intoefte&j and, On his return home,
he Ihould think it hid duty to endeavour to re
concile his neighbours to the ltate in which
they would of courie place us. But he could
not, as their Representative, believing as lie
did, that they will be less able to pay this tax,
than any other that could be impoled, and
that it will be found extremely burthenfome,
vote for this bill. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania had truly Hated that Tenneflee had
greatly increased in numbers lince the taking
of the laltcenfus ; but though this is true, it
is not consequently true that the State has
greatly increased in wealth. When the emi
grants from the Atlantic States firfl leave
home to go to that ltate, they have fonie pro
perty; but is is generally expended on their
journey, or for the purchase of land on their
arAval,as had been justly represented by his
triendtrom Kentucky. Now and then indeed,
a person of wealth came amongst them, but
the emigrants to. the Western' Country, gene
rally came in feaich of an asylum from pover
ty and diltrefs. It may be, that in the courie
of a few years, provided his constituents could
have a vent for their produce, the State of
Tenneflee may become wealthy. When that
(ball be the cale, he was certain they would
pay the tax cfteatltilly, without cbuiplair.t.
Ho looped to fee the day when this State lhall
vie with its litter Hares in wealth and lonfe
qucnce ; but at present being in her Infancy,
he was afraid this tax v ouldot all others prove
tlie molt burthenfome to many of his confli
tuents. But if the gentleman Iron S. Caroli
na had (uppoied that his oppolition so this
tax arose troma wiMipgnefs in linn or conHi
tuents, to fur render the independence of this
country to a Foreign Power, he had greatly
wronged both him and them.
Mr. S. Smith did not think the fears of
the gentlemen from Kentucky and Tennell'ee
would be realized. It is no doubt true that
ihe quantity ot circulating fpecle in Kentrc
ky had di mini Ihed lince the peace with the
Indians j but it is alio true that the spring
trad? this year from Kentucky by the Miflif
iippi has been both great and profitable. But
gentlemen fuppofc, if we have a war with
France, wje lhall also be at war with Spain,
and our inrerctSurfe by that riv.ci\will be cut
otf". But the interest of Spain will be againll
this; for «n cafe of war, there wiU be great
difficulty in getting flour to the Ilavanoah
from the Atlantic ports, as our Welt India
trade will be cut off, and they will have to
depend upon a lnyiply by the Miflillippi.
fides, it produce be so much cheaper in [he
Western Country than in the Atlantic
as it has been flaied to be, it will become khe
interest of neutrals in the Atlantic cities, to
make by produce from that coun
try to the Havannah. And if Spain ftouldCbe
drawn into the war, there would be other
modes of the people of tliofe Hates difpoljng
of their produce. He did not rhink, there
fore, gentlemen from that country need be so
much alarmed as they appeared to be.
Mr. J. Williams had always been op
posed.to every fyHem of direct taxes ; but as
a majority of the House had agreed to call
forth the resources of the country by this
means, he mufl give his vote for this bill. He
was aflonifhed to find the gentleman from
Kentpcjty and Tenneflee oppoling this bill,
when so much of the money of ihe general
government had been expended in thajt coun
try. They niuH acknowledge their Hates have
had their portion of specie from the Treasury
of the United States. An aft had indeed beerr
patted during the present felfion for paying a
company of Militia for a certain expedition in
Tenneflee, which amounted to nearly one
fourth of the whole sum required from that
Hate. He believed fomeof the troops of the
United States are also now there, and likely
to continue, so that they are conHantly re
ceiving fuppliesof calh from the Treasury of
the United States. Besides, it ought to be
considered, that this tax will fall upon unim
proved, as well as improved land, many of
the owners of which, he supposed, lived out
of that Hate, which would reduce the portion
of the tax to the Hate. The diflriCt in which
he lived, Mr. W. said, would pay more tax
than the whole Hate of Tennelfee. He knew
the tax would be collected in some places
with difficulty, and more so, lince the bill
undergone a change, which had thrown the
tax upon land more than it would otherwise
have fallen.
But whatever difficulty may attend the col
lection of this t ( ax, when we fee the ruinous
effects of public debt in other countries, vye
ought to be cautious how we make extenlive
loans, and endeavour to draw forth the re
sources of the country, to meet any of the ex
pences which we may have to encounter.
M . Varnum flieuld vote against this bill. He
had always thought, since the ettablifhment of the
present government, that there would be no neccf
fity for resorting to direst taxes, except in cafe of
our being engaged in war. He believed the mea
sures already taken would not require a direst tax,
if no further expences were contemplated. But he
now believed a majority of the government of the
United States are determined on war, and he would
on that account have given his vote for the bill, if
the tax was proposed to be laid on just and equal
principles. It was his opinion that every species of
property ought to be taxed, as well as houses and
land. So far from this being the cafe, he believed
that betwixt one third and one half of the property
taxed by the State Legislatures, in their lyftem of
dire# taxes, would, by the present plan, be excused
altogether from tax. Some of the most wealthy
people in the Union would, by this means, b« un
taxed, in a great degree, whilst perfms who hold a
small property in houses or land, will bear the bur
then of it; and not only of this tax, but to any fur
ther extent to which the government may have oc
casion to carry it.
Mr. T, Claiborne had opposed many of the
measures which made rhi>tax necessary; but a ma
jority of Congress having determi ed upon a certain
cotirfe of measures, however contrary they may be
to his opinion, he ihould cheerfully lubmit to them,
and vote in favour of this bill.
The people of Virginia, if they mud be taxed,
wished ro be taxed in .1 d:reft way, and ke doubted
npt this tax would be paid with alacrity.. They al
w»ys had b cn, and would continue to be, he had
no doubt, prompt in their obedience to the laws of
the general government.
Mr. Lyon ihould vote against this bill. K-. 'iad
expe&ed that whenever the States ihould have beep
called upon to pay a diredt tax, they would have
been required to have raised their quota of the tax
in the way that Oiould jiave been most agreeable to
them. This, he laid, would have been a much more
economical way than the prelent. If the Hate of
Vermont hadbecn called upon in this way, he ?!oubt
ed not ihe could hive raised the money, at not more
than 2 pe ( r cent, upon the colle&ion ; whereas in
the way proposed, it is estimated to cost 25 'per
cent. He ihould not have objeqfccd to a direiSfc tax,
if properly cofle&ed; but he could not agree to this
txpenfive mode of doing the business.
The Yeas and Nays were then taken upon the
palling of the bill (as have already been given) and
it was pafled 69 votes to 19.
Tk« bill to authorize the defence of Merchant
VelTels againll Trench depredations; and the bill to
amend the aft to provide a Naval Armament, and
the aft to authorize the President of the U. States
to caufc to be purchased or built a number of small
ve(Teis, to be equipped as galleys or otherwifc, were
read the third time and pal Ted.
The amendments of the Senate to the hill fup
plementai y to the aft for providing an uniform rule
of naturalization, were taken up and agreed to.
Mr. Gallatin, from the committee to whom
w is referred the letter of Rufus Putnam, Surveyor
General of the United States, fuggclliiig the pro
priety of repealing that part of the law providing .
lor the sale of land north-well of the river Ohio,
which requires the north and i'outh lines &c. to be
run according to the true meridian, on account of
the difficulty attending it, roported it as their opi
nion, that it woukl be improper to repeal that part
of the law.
The fame gentleman, from the committee ap
pointed to enquire into what progress had been
made in the law for the sale of the North Western
Lands, andwji'ether any alteration ought to he made
in the laid law, reported it as the opinion of the
committee, that any alteration which may be pro
per in the above adt, ought to be poftponcd till next
l'eflion.
Both reports were committed.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for the
better cpllefticn of certain internal •.». venues, were
committed'to a committee of the whole.
Adjd.
IO Bli L£ l',
jind fojfejfton given immediately,
THAT Witt RM()*N TAYF.K* HO'JsR,
N°. 333, i:i Front-street,
Near Poole's Dridg^—formerly the fig'i of the
Jtwe Lamr>.
Snquirc at No. 91, Ncrth r»:x:h f ttc*.
ju.'C IS i
[Volume XIV,
For Sale,
The new and faft Sailing
E R, 'J
%m%Mr4DV£N7 URE ■
Ralph Pigot, matter.
Now lying at Jcffic & Robert-Wain's n-harfi
her length is fixty-five feet—breadth twenty feet
her depth nine feet ten inches and meafurcson*
hundred and twenty tons and ao-95ths— —'for
terms app y to the matter on board or
George Plumflcd,
iVfl. 166 South Front Jlreet.
And now Landing from on board the said
Schooner
50 tons Logwood,
AND HE HAS NOW ON HAND,
A quantity of Sherry Wines
Nankeen*,
China
Young Hyson Tea
Fans >
Rice &c.
Which will be disposed of low for Cash or 4
Ciort credit.
ju'y J §*t
United States, >
Pennfylyama DiJlriEl. ) 1
IN Pnifuance to a Writ to me diredled fr<jm
the honorable Richard Peter*, cfq. Judge of
the Diftri& Court of the IJnitcd St. res, in and
for the Penqfylvama diflri«St, will we to
public fair at the CuAom-houfc in the city of
I'h'iudelphia on Wednesday the nth day ot Ju
ly next at 12 o'clock at nccp.
2 Puncheons of Rum
I Cafkof ditto, : nd
1 Small enfe containing
Artificial Flo went.
The fame having been libelled agatnft, prose-
CNted and condemned as forfeited in the said
Court.
William Nichols, mar/hah
Marjhals Office 1
Hth June, 1795. > Juiy 3Us
FOR SALEi
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteeth Master, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
945 Farregns of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora India
210 Ba'es of Cotton
a Packages of Goat Skins
By Willing s & Francis.
No at Peun ltrect.
July 2: dtf
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. 21 PF. N N-3T R F E T ,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Willing* & Francis.
June 89. dtf
The Cargo ot the Ship Nathaniel Bayley, c-ptain
Carabell, from Jamaica, will commence landing
rO-MORHOJV, at South-street Wharf.
Sugars of Prime Quality in Hhds.
High proof Rum.
FOR SALE BY
Peter Blight,
Who also offers for Sale,
A choke parcel of ift and 4th proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter casks
Madeira in Pipes
Old Arrack. «|
junc * * sif*odt 13 Jv
Now Opening,
At Wi lli a m M'Laws Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afTortment of Horfercan's
i Pistols, direA from the Manufa&urers in London*
ALSO ON HANI?,
I Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
: Horseman's Caps, Swords, Car touch Boxes, Va
; I ices. Saddle Sags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks Carriage and Chair Hurnefs, &c.
april 9 ___
John Haines Wrii. Jones,
BEG leave to inform their friends and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-partner{hip
i in th* SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be «arricdon under the firtt of
HAINES (5- JONES,
In M-rket (Ireet, No. 132, one door above the
corner of Fourth, — they prefum- (.1: leafl
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufinefj, th ir determination *0 serve en the bed
terms, and their knowa attachment ai Native A
mericans to the Government and ConPutution of
their Cpuntry, will entitle them to
nientoi a generous pubMc. Although they can
not boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet rhey take the liberty ftf
pledging thenifclves, that their manufavSture fitall
be inferior t • none in this city.
June l 6» tuthitf
Philadelphia, June 30th, 1798.
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to the aiSl of Cqngrefj, patTed
on the 12th flay of June 1798, entitled,
" an adl refpecling Loan Office ancl final settle
ment certificates, fndeiit> r.f and the
unfunded or registered debt credited in the
bocks of the Treasury."
:it. That on the application of the creditor*
rdfpeiilively, or then legal attornies At any time
after the last day of December in the present
year, the princi al /urns oi the unfunded or re
'giftered dtbt of the United States credited on
the books of the trcaf;ry, or commiflioners of
Loans will be reimbursed at the treasury <>f the
United States.
2d 3 hat interest upon th? unfunded or re
gistered debts at< refaid wi?! cea'.'e trom and af
ter th? last day of December in year.
3d. 'l'hat the creditors rei'pejSively will be
entitled on requisition to receive from the pro
per cfacers of the treasury, certificates • f fund
ed three per cent flock, espial tu the arrearage*
of Interett due on the debts afrrefaid prior to
the firlt day of January; one thor.fand fevtn hun
dred and ninety one.
Jjy ordtr of the Boar:! of (fanmij/soners
of the Sinking Fun J,
Edward Jones, ste'ry.
June 30 lawif
FOR SALE,
A PAIR, cf handforac v/ii: matched, and vfoll
broke H .)R. w i£S, uj w..r - of fiftr<n handa
high, fix and fevtrt years old, warranted found—
bold for no fault, tLe owner having uo further
use ft r the m.
Enquire of Mr.T. W HIL» Z.IPIVER,
lu ievcntb, betvrvefl Chc£au r . anuHigH flrwets.
June a.wtiXi;ecsasette, »
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, >ir j.
The Pennsylvania Soaiety of the Cincin
nati hiving affemhled at the State-hoaie,
and vot.d an address to (he President of the
United States a Committee, confi" ing of
Jjckfon, General Moylan and Ge
neral Rohinfon; was deputed to wait upon
the Irefidenr witha copy, and to learn when
he w!>uld he pleased tu receive the fame.
T : eI 't fideiit of tie United States hs»-
ing appoii ted ' 2 o'clock, the Society,
escorted by the officers of the militia, waited
Upon him, when the following address was
read by Gn»ernor Mifflin, a* President of
the Society:
To JOHN ADAMS,
President op th« United Statt
of America.
«'•>
ON the birth diy of the United States,
and at an sera the mod intereding that haq
occurred since their exidence as a nation,
the Pennsylvania State S ciety of the Cin
cinnati dctire most refpeflfully to congratu
late and address yon.
Asa portion of that band, whose bed
efforts were employed to edablilh the sove
reignty and independence of our country,
we come, in the moment of impend nghol
tility, trf offer the remnant of our lives to
defend them.
The rights and privileges of America
were not purchased u ith the bed blood of
her citizens, to be inglorioufly surrendered
on the requisition of a foreign power.
No, Sir, the spirit which procured, sur
vives to protest them—And we rejoiae to
behnjd that spirit pre-eminently displayed
in the firm, virtuous and dignified condufl
of the Federal Chief Magidrate. Our citi
zensofall ages are emulous of this illustrious
example; the exert ons of our youth declare
that tliey have r.o degenerated, and afford
an unqi.edionable affu ance that their noble
inherrtancewillbe pre ft rved unimpaired, and
transmitted inv olate to poflerity.
The government of France, abandoning
every principle on which their revolution
was predicated, has exhibited a spirit of def
potif.n unexampled in the VtiSory of nations.
After perpetrating the tri"d unprovoked
and unjtiftifiable wrongs againll the people
of the United States, their rulers li3ve re
jetted the reiterated advances of our go
vernment towards an explanation of differ
ences ; they have fpurntfd cur messengers of
peace, and they have fuperadded insult to
injury, in the exaftion of an ignominious
tribute, which they hoped to extort by base
intrigue, er to enforce byimperious menace.
As Americans, and as men, having a
common inured in the welfare oftheworld,
we rejoice that these outrages againd its
happiness have been refilled.
To the prudence, moderation and libera
lityof those meafiircs of your aftminiftr.tion,
Sir, which we are convinced were lincerely '
direaed to the attainment of an honorable '
peace, we render the approbation of citi
zens wh - juflly appreciate that desirable po
fition. To your vigilance and virtue, which
have detefled and repelled the attempts of '
avarice and ambition, on the part of the '
French gov roment, against the United 1
Siates, we»ffr the tribute cf an higher
applause. We defiie to express the cfteem
and gratitude of cit'zens, who hold every '
confideraiion as secondary toihe sovereign 1
ty and irdepende ce of our contury—for C „
the maintenance f which, and in support .
of every measure of our government that
may be deemed necessary to protest the r
persons, privileges, and property of our ci- 0
tizens, we do hereby pledge to you the '
solemn assurance of our utmost exert ionß. v
Signed by order, and on belalf of ,
tie society,
THOMAS MIFFLIN, President. |
To which the President of the United States -
was plea ed to make the annexed
ANSWER. c
To thi Pennfytvania State Society of the Cin
cinnati. (
BENTLEMEN,
THIS refpiftful address, ftom gen- a
tlcmen of your long experience, high rank, s
and authority in society, ard eminent fer- 1
vices to the na'ion. does me great honor. r
On the return of thisatifpicious anniver- r
f?ry at an aera the most interesting, I beg t
leave to reciprocate your kind congratula- ]
tions—the fundamental and immutable prin. t
eiples of your society, ,-equiring an incesT- ;
an' attention to preserve inviolate those ;
rights and lbcrtics of human nature, for ]
which yon have fought and bled, and an un- j
al'erable determination to promote and che- (
rifh between the refpe&ive States that union ,
and national honor so efTentially necefTary |
to their happintfs, and the dignity of the |
American republic, were never more indif- ,
penfable in all claffcs of citizens, or becom- ,
ing your charafters, than at this time—as
a portion of that band, whose efforts were ,
employed to establish the sovereignty of the ,
United States, you, who have enjoyed the ,
woik of your own arms, and the fruits of a ,
righteous and glorious war, mull have view
ed with inexpressible pleasure, the cncreafing
•prosperity and grtatnefi of
You mull now fee, your tranquility diflurb
ed, and your independence threatened, with
indignation and contempt—the spirit which
firft asserted the sovereignty of this country '
survives to maintain it, and your acknow
ledgment of some remaining portion of that
spirit, ill the federal chief magi ft rate is very
honourable to him.
As it is but too manifeft that unlawful dr.
predations on our commerce will be con- j
tinued, as long as it fliall remain unproteft- ]
fd, so it is equally clear that all hopes of
accommodation are at an end, until you and j
your affociares throughout the union, at the j
head of the rising generation, who are wor
thy to succeed you, (hall have drawn your j
{words, once more in the cause of your [ |
"" ' ceunry, and defended its jul ard
I iovcritg'Uy by your lumoit exertions.
| for yob health and long lite, and th.it your
! latter days may be crowned with laurels, as
unfading as the former.
JOHN ADAMS,
l- Philadelphia, July 4, 1798.
- * ———
The following Address of the Legifla-
ture of New-Hampshire to the l'refi
in j dent ofthe United States, was agreed
n ' to by the Hoqfe of Representatives,
136 members present, and four only
voting in the negative —in the Senate
(j it was unanimously adopted. \
Address »f the Legi/lature of New-Hampshire,
TO THE
PRESIDENT tj the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
AT a time when the American nation is
on the point of being drawn into the vortex
of European war, we flatter ourfelvea that
an address from the I.egiflature of New-
Hampshire will not be unacceptable.
' Permit us, Sic, to express our entire satis*
[l _ faftion in the wisdom and energy of your
adininiflration, and that of your predecessor.
unremitted perseverance whi' h has
c _ marked your endeavors to adjust and fettle
our disputes with France, difplavs, in the
I strongest colours, your desires of peace.
0 Although the political fituatio* of this
country is diflrefling and alarming j yet no
■a mea^ures on y our P art have been wanting
that could honorably render it otherwise.
We consider the inflriiftions given our En
voys as fufficient and ample for every pur
. pose of honorable and equitable negociation.
Q We feel the indignity that has been offered
them ; we feel, with resentment, the wrongs
and injuries done our commerce by French
depredations.
A firm requefl and dignified demand have
e not procured redress ; and we add, with re
-1 gret that we fear the apparent disposition
c of the government of France renders further
j Rtgociation unnecessary. We do not tax
ourfelvcs wirhjingratitude to the French na
tion ; that debt which wecontradled under
the monarchy of France, has antici
pated and paid to the executive govern- I
ment of that country ; and it will always
j be recollefted that we were the lirft nation
to acknowledge the republic of France.
It is with pleasure we contemplate the
increasing firmnefs of our national legisla
ture : by union our independence can be
r maintained ; by division it is loft forever.
' To divide and conquer, has been, we are
sensible, too oft»n fuccefsfully praftifed, I j
to the deftru&ion of governments and ua- 1
tions j but we arc happy to assure you, that 1
the opposition in the state of New-Hamp- 1
(hire to (he adminifiration of the federal go- 1 J
vernment, is much too coutemptible to merit ; t
the name of division.
Although we deprecate the evilg and ; '
scourges of war; yet, Sir, we more sensibly \
feel the insults offered the dignity of our
country. Our independence was won and
eflablifhcd by the blood and fatigues of the
brave—it is a boon which we will never 1
facrifice at the shrine of foreign rapacious c
ambition. If declining Rome bought her '
peace of the ancient Gauls with money, yet J.
we shall never give our consent to pay a dif
graceful tribute to Guals more modern.- r
When our Country calls, our war-worn sol- t
diars, and the hardy youth of our hills, at
the firft found of the clarion of danger, will
cheerfully and unitedly rally round the "
flandard of American independence, and de- /,
fend it with their blood. The diforganizer t,
may seek for preteftion under the colours p
of France ; bu' as for us and our conllitu
ents, we will shelter ou-'felves under the
wings of the American Eagle. v
Accept, Sir, our united declaration ta 8
fupporc and defend the constituted authori- V
ties of our country with our lives and for- 8
tunes ; accept our warmed wishes for your [j
personal welfare and happiness : long may p
you continue to watch over the fafety of the '
community.
r
To the Legi/lature of Netv-Hampfhire. |
GENTLEMIN, |
My mod refpeilfuland affe&ionate thanks v
are due to your two honourable houses for t
an address transmitted to me by yonr excel- a
lent governor and presented to me by your 1
representatives in Congress. The American
nation appears to me as it do sto you, on 1
the point of being drawn into the vortex of 1
European war—your entire fatisfa&ion in ' f
the adminiftratir.ll of the federal government 1
and in the perseverance which has marked 1
its endeavours to adjust our dilputes with '
France is very me—diftreffing ,
and alarming as the political situation of this t
country is, lam confcious-that no meafuies t
on my part havfc been wanting that could 1
have honorably rendered it otherwise. The '
indignities which have been so repeat- '
edly offered to our ambassadors, the great- !
eft of which is the lad unexampled insult, ,
in choosing out one of the three, and t
discarding the other two, the wrongs 1
and injuries to our commerce, by French 1
depredations, the legal declaration in 1
effeft of hostilities against all tur com- 1
merce and the apparent disposition of the ,
government of France render further nego
ciation not only nugatory but difgraceful 1
and ruinous You may tax the French gov- 1
ernment with ingratitude with much 1
justice than yourselves. The increasing u- '
nion among the people and their legislatures, !
is as encouraging as it is agreeable. The ,
piecept "divide and conqutr" was never 1
exemplified in the eyes of mankird in so flri- 1
king and remarkable a manner, as of late
in Europe I Every old republic has fallen 1
before it—if America has not spirit and :
sense enough to learn wisdom from the ex- 1
ample of* so many republican catastrophes I
paffm? in review before her eyes, (lie de- I
serves to fuffer and most ctftairly will fell. ■
lam happy to assure you, that as far as my '
| information txtends, the oppofiticn to the j
! federal government in all the other dates as
well aa in New Hampshire ia too small to 1
"(1 merit, tSensme of diTtfion ; it is a differ
tnee of fefitimcnton public meafuret, oat
es ad ali: nation ct affciSior 10-tlieir
ur The war-worn foldicrt, and the brate and
at hardy sons of New-Hamplhire, second to
none in Still, emerprize or courage in war,
will never iurreiidcr the independence, or
consent to the difho-ior of their country.
I return my warmed wifhesfor your health
l- and happinefa.
I. JOHN ADAMS,
j Philadelphia, June 29, 1798.
S ' CONGRESS.
Tuefdav, the House of Representatives of
;e the United States, parted the bill further to
protett the Commerce of the United States,
46 votes being in favourofit.
Mr. Harper said, he held in his hand cer
'• tain resolution? vyith refpefl to the defence of
the country, which he thought it would te
important to adopt; because he considered
Congress as having resolved upon repelling
is and resisting the pretensions of a power which
• x he had no idea, and which he could not sup-
Jt pole any gentleman had reason to expect
would recede from the terms of tribute which
tliey had offered. Having therefore'a know
ledge ot the force, the pride, and the perfe
s- verance of oar enemy, whi Ift we are not dif
ir mayed by, their power and their spirit, we
r , ought to view it in all its magnitude, to pre
ls pare fora vigorous firugglein meeting it, and
I to redd the extravagant pretensions of that na
tion. That we maybe thus prepared, he of
c fered the following resolutions to the confide- I
"• ration of the House :
Is Rofol<vrJ, That it is expedient to augment
0 the Provisional Army of the United Stares to
fifty thousand men.
, Resolved, That it is expedient to enable the
President of the United States to proceed,
whenever he ifaall judge it conducive to the
- public welfare, to the appointment of all the
1. Officersof the said Army, and the organiza
] tion of irs Staff: Inch Officers not to be on pay
s till called into actual service.
R.ifll'ved, That it is expedient ro enable the
1 President of the United States to raifc im
mediately, and bring into adhial service, one
e division of the said army, to confiftof not more
- than twelve thousand five hundred men.
j Resolved, That it isexpedient to enable the
r President of the United States te raise and bring
I into actual service, all or any part ot the rc
' 1 maining divisions of the said army, in cafe of
* i invasion of any part of the territory oftheUni
rl ted States, qr of imminent danger of such in
- ' vafion, in his opinion conceired to exist.
. | Rcfnhrd, Tlint it is expedient to enable
, t the President of the United States to raise
I immediately, and bring into aCUial service, a
1 | corps of non-commiflioned officers for those
1 divisions of the said army which may not be
; immediately raifsd : the (aid corps not to ex
ceed the number ot twelve hundred, and to
do duty asa separate corps of the army, until
their services in all or any of the said divisions
: shall be required.
RefcflveJ, That it is expedient to enable the Pr#-
fident of tfie U. Statei to obtain by purchase, loan or
other contract, for the use of the United States, any
number ef vefTels of war, not exceeding ten, in ad
dition to those heretofore authorized by law, and of
such force, not less than thirty-two guns each, as he
may judge advaritageo*s for the public service, and
I to man and equip the fame.
RefofotJ, That it is expedient,to enable the Pre
. fide t of the United States to cftablifh one or more
dock-yards for the use of the United States, with
; suitable buildings for marine stores, arsenals and
magazines.
Ordered to lie on the table till this day.
Mr. Livingston again laid the resolution
upon the table which he otfered and with
drew yesterday, prbpofingan address to the
President. He said he should not himfelf call
it up at present; but if any other gentleman
chose to do so, he should not object to it.
The Sysaxer said, that gentleman
must know that when a propofiti n is offered
to the House, it is offered for decifi'on,.
The queflion being loudly called for
Mr. Kittera wished to propose an amend
ment to this resolution, in the following
words, viz. " and in cafe the said Ermv/Jball
have been ordered out <if {he French Republic, or
taken into cuflody, then niiih such Other person or
persons as the French Directory may feleil."
Mr. Thatcher leconded the motion.
Mr. Harrison hoped the yeas and nays
would be taken upon this amendment. A
greed. f
Mr. N. Smith wai sorry thii motion was made. *
He thought it playing with treafou. Nor could he •
?';ivean affirmative vote on any amendment 10 so in-
amoiis a resolution. (rt call to O'der) He said he
should be conttruned 10 voteagiinft the amendment, c
piopofed, and vuh equalrcadinefs should voceigainlt
the resolution. t
Mr. Otis hoped the mover of this amend- '
ment would withdraw it. It could only have ®
been intended to cafl acenfureupon the Refo- "
lution—a censure much milder than he should
himfelf have been inclined to cast upon it, '
which having been done, he trusted the gen- f
tleman would not place his friends in so dif- -
agreeable a fituatiou as to be obliged to vote
upon it.
Mr. Kittera said, the house muit have '
seen his objeil in making this motion. The "
resolution which had been laid upon the table 1
by the gentleman front New York, was so ab- °
horrent to all his ideas of propriety, that he '
had taken this mode of (hewing his difappro-
bation of it, in the strongest manner in which c
he could do it. We have, said he, sent three
Envoys to the French Republic in order to
lerminateour differences with that Nation; ■
but the Directory havenot chosen to treat with
these three Covnmillioners, buthaveinfulting
ly feletted one from amoii'ft them, with
whom they fay they are ready to treat, but c
upon the terms offered to all the three. If t
this one Envoy should be sent off, or impri- t
foned, therefore before the frefh inftruftions t
which the gentleman from New York wishes
to be sent off should be received, it would be
prefer that the Directory (hould make choice -
offome other person with whom they will
be willing to treat. Having, however, (hewn
his pointed dislike of the proposition before
the house, by the present motion, he would
withdraw it.
Mr. Livingston said, he would not have
troubled the house with any farther observa
tions on this motion, if »ot forced to do it by
certain expreflions which had been used re
fpeiting it. One gentleman has called it ar.
infamous resolution ; another had said that the
motion which had been made and withdrawn,
was too mild a censure upon it ; another gen
tleman looked upon it with abhorrence. If
this resolution is so extremely abhorrent, he
(hould have been glad it gentlemen would
have condef«en<Kd to have (hewn wherein its
abhorrence lies. What is this resolution. Doe;,
it tend to dishonour this country, by propo
sing to agree with any degrading terms offered
by the Direttory ! No such thing, What is it,
but to request the President of the United
States to in(tru£t the Envoy, whom he himfelf
appointed, to make such a treaty with France ,
as (hall be confident with our honour and in
terest > Yet this resolution is called infamous. 1
If this term was applicable to his motion, he
was ignorant of the meaning of words.
T[ic SfBAKE* said, as rhp from
t Connecticut, who midc afc of this<xpreffion,
hats been called to order, any remarks upon
, it u ere cijwally out of order. ,
Mjr. L. said he would make no comments
3 upon it, but confine his remarks to the relolu
, tons itfelf, It was his delirc, if pollible, to
j prevent a war with France, which mull in
volve this country in great distress—which
may, perhaps, deilroy it, all for the fake of a
punctilio. IJe was not ashamed of this opini
on any where. It would be for the interest,
for the dignity of this country, to conclude
an honourable peace with France ; more so
than any War which we could pofiibly wage.
The fate of War mult be doubtful —the ho
nour of it extremely so. For his part, he fa w
f none that could be derived from war. He
0 wished to avoid it, if it could be avoided
, with honour. He was far from proposing to
preserve Peace jit the expenceot our honour.
- All he wished Envoy at present
f in Paris should, jf poflible, make a treaty
® founded upon theinftrudtions originally given.
\ Is there, exclaimed he, any thing so extreme
r ly bad in this ? On the contrary, he knew it
1 was thi wirti of a majority of the people of
. this country that a treaty should, if poflible,
\ be nude, and by that means prevent the ne-
ceflity of a war.
Bur it should seem as if gentlemen were ready to
fay, that it is better to go to war, tha : that one of
our Envoy? should make a treity for us, a* if they
» were ready to draw the sword, because three fcals
cannot be put to a treaty, i iftead of one. He was
[ not for doing this, nor were his constituents : nor
did he believe that either &e tr they should ever be
ashamed of this resolution. It would alway.* be a
' consolation to hirn that he had endeavoured to pre
serve the peace of the country, so long as it could
conftflently be done.
| It was altogether a misrepresentation, Mr L. I
said, to insinuate that the pe ion whom he wished j
to be inftru<fted to treat, was appointed by the Di- '
re&ory; he was chosen by the President of the U. j
States, and commifiioned by him with fuparate
; powers. And yet this man, thus appointed, is fpok- !
en of as a man chosen by the Executive Dire&ory of
France! He wished gentlemen to reconcile his to
themselves ; he could not do it.
Mr. Matthews thought this resolution ought
to be explained, before gentlemen were called to
vote upon it. He therefore moved the following a
mendment ? " Wbe eas this House has tofi all confidence
in tffe President of the United Stahs, and his deftre of
plunging this country in all the horrors of War with our
goodfriends, isfo evident, therefore ref.lved, life.
This motion not being seconded, the yeas and
nays were taken upon Mr. Livingfton's proportion
as follow:.
TEAS.
!Vfe(frs» Baldwin, Mcllrs. Heifter,
Bard, Jones,
Benton, Livingfton,
Blount, Locked
Burgess, Lyon,
T. Claiborne, Macon,
Clopton, M'Clenachan
Davis, M'Dowell,
Dawfon, New,
- Fowler, Nicholas,
Gallatin, W. Smith,
Gillefpie, Stanford,
Gregg, Sumter,
Hanrifon, j. Trigg,
Havens, R. Williams.
3°-
N A r s.
Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Hartley,
Baer, Hindman,
Bartletr> Holmes,
Bayard, Hofmer,
Brooks, Imlay,
Bullock, Kitten,
Champlin, Lyman,
Matthews,
W. Claiborne Otis,
Cochran, I. Parker,
Coit, Reed,
Craik, Schureman,
Dana, Sewall,
Dent, Sinnickfon,
Edmond, Sitgreaves,
Evans, N. Smith,
A. Foster, Sprague,
D. Folter, •
J. Freeman, Thatcher,
Glen, Thomas,
Goodrich > Tillinghafl,
Gordon, Van Alen,
Grifwold, Varnum,
Grove, Venable,
Hanna, Wadfworth.
Harper, 51.
Mr. Harper laid a resolution upon the table
proposing that ifanyftate indebted to the U. States,
;n the balance of accounts at the close of the late
war, shall expend any money in ereding or enlarg
ing their fortifications, upon plans approved by the
President of the United States, such sums shall be
considered as in part payment of the said balanc«.
Mr. Sewall, from the committee for the pro- ,
tedlion of Commerce and the defence of the coun
try, reported a bill making a farther appropriation j
for the additional naval armament, which was com :
mitted for to-morrow. (
On motion of Mr. Macon ? it was agreed, that
the House should meet, for the remainder of the
feflion, at ten o'clock in the morniug. I
The Subscribers to the fund
for building the (Kip to be loaned to the United '
States, are hereby noti6ed that 25 per cent upon *
their refpeAive fubferiptions i, now called for— ,
and that notes payable at 60, iao and 180 days in j
equil proportions will be received for the remain
der. The secretary will attend at the office of the a
committee from 10 to 1 o'clock every cay, to re- c
ceivc the fame, and give receipts therefor. r
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry. a
july 3 • 5 h
■ ———____________— (
Bank of Pennsylvania,
JUIT 3, '9B.
AT a meeting of Dire&ors this day,a dividend
of fixreen dollars on ezch share for the last fix months ]
ending the 30th ult. was declared ; which will be paid
to the Stockholders or their legal representative* after
the 13th infant.
JONATHAN SMITH, Ca/bier.
j ul Y3 " dti 3
NOW LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, and forfait by the fubferiber,
88 caIksCLARET
71 do. do. of a superior quality
2 trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut-street.
tfHO B/1S ON HAND,
White Wine in half Casks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
boxes and baskets
Lunelle ( Entitled to
Sauterne / Drawback.
Infh Market > WHINES in Cases
Macarty and I
Medoc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
Mary 29. eodtf 4
To'Se rented, 1 j
AVERY pleafantfmal) house in Dock-street i
and a large frame building in fmh-flreet,
suitable far a Coachmikcr'i flop Enquire of 1
the Printer.
June it dCt i"'
1 Bank of the United Stated
' J*b 1791.
THE have this day declared a divi
dend of fixtern dollars, on each (hare of
' Si oak, for the last fix months —Which will be
~ paid to th« Stockholders, or their Reprcfenta
tives, after the nth instant.
|i C. SIMPSON, Cmjbitr.
a i"'r » eod»t
- 1 20 pipes old tiourdeaux Brandy
, 70 do. white wine Vinegar, and
e A few caPcs low priced Cider Vinegar
6 For Sale by
Benjamin IV. Morr'u.
- _i u, 7 * f»w
e Public Notice is hereby given,
d That proposals will be received at the office
0 of the Secretary of the Trealury for filp.
t p'f ,n g 'he United States with a number not
y exceeding Fortv thonfand (lands of arms,
on the following conditions.
id. The arms (ball be manufactured in the
t United Stales, conformable to the Charlevilje
f pattern ; the barrels (hat! be proved, and the
y muskets infpedled agreeable to the rules now
. praiflilcd and required by the United Ststes :
the Locks fh.ll be duly hardened; the Ramrod*
0 and Bay. -lets (hall be tempered and the mount
s : ings, (locks, and every ether particular (hall be
1 j finilhed in a workman- like manner.
s I jd. The proposals mud fpecify the number
s which the party is willing to furnilh and the time
r r.r times of delivery—One fourth of the pro
* : posed number must be dcJiveied in Ox months,
» one fourth in twelve months, and theremainder
" in eighften months from the time of (inning the
* contrails | the public will not be considered as
h 'und to receive any arms, which are not ready
■ for delivery within the times propoftd.
3<l. For every (land ol arms with Bayonet
and Ramrod'complete as aforefaid, the United
\ Stat! s will allow thirteen dollars and fort) cents.
4th. When practicable and confident with
f exilling arrangements, feafoncd (locks will be
, delivered from the public llores in Philadelphia
to contractors, at the rate of twenty-live cents
t each.
, sth. The arms will be received in the refpre
. tve dates at places to be hereafter defignatcd—
• Ihe United States (hall nut be bound to prove
r less than five hundred barrels at one time, unlefj
• the barrels are tranfportcd to some public faSo
ry or deposit of arms, in which cafe any num«
I ber not less than one hundred will be proved.
1 6th. The parties contrafling will be requiied
to give bonds with sureties for fulfilling their en
gagements ; No money will be advanced unless
indifputablc teilimonials of lkill tatid ability to
execute the proposed contrails are produced
nor in cases where proposals are madefor a lels
number than one thousand (lauds of arms j the
right of judgmg of the expediency of making
advances of money isabfolutely reserved.
7th. Unt 1 contrails are made for supplying
forty thoufasd ftandsof arms, the sum of thir
teen dollars and forty cents will be paid at the
Treasury foreverv complete (land of arms man
ufactured in the United States and which may
be delivered in parcels e£not less than twenty
into the public arsenals, already or hereafter to
be e(tahli(hed. *(hose who propose to deliver
arms mufl however indicate their intentions fea
fouably 'to, the office of the Secretary ,«f the
Treasury.
For the Secretary of the Treasury,
John Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Department )
June lids 1703. S uwtF
TO THE PUBLIC. ' J "
GEORGE KIESSELBACH,
Phyficiariy Surgeon, and Ocultfl, lately from
Europe.
WHETHER weconfider the Eye, with refpe£|
to its exquifr e ftruflure, its life in the animal
economy, or the pleasure and advanteges of vision,
we cannot but look upon it as one of the most ad
mirable and important organs of the human frame.
\\ hen we refleft, likeuife, on the many painful and
dangerous dlfeafea it is liable to, anting as well from
its necdlary use, as from accidental caufesj are we
not juitified in allcrting, that whoever shall contribute
toward j prefer vmg it from injury, reftofing it I rota
adi lealed to a healthy (late, or remedying anv of thtf
difedtsof fight, or Hill more, brings it from total
blindness to fight again, will render a service by no
means unacceptable, or important to mankind.
To be able, however, to perform any of these very -
eflential services, it must be allowed, thatan accurate
knowledge of the anatomy r f this wonderful organ ;
a clearconception of the do£lrine of vision, t
rougn acquaintance with the hiflories of the different
d feafes, and the most aporoved and fuccefsful me
thods of cure are indifpenfibly neceffarv. Alt this is
to be hoped from a man who has nude the disease s
Of the Eyes his particular lludy, which he has done,
and still does, and has also studied at some of the
m ll celebrated univeifities in Europe, under the
oculifts, and his pra&ifed (aid science these
twelve year« part, with the greatelt success.
He, therefore, takes the libe>ty of informing the
public, that he intends to tarry here a (hort time,
and will undertake the cure all difcafes of the Eyes
(if curable) on apolication being made to him at
John Stall's, No. *9, North Thitd-ftreer..
Should heiindon examination of the pa'ient, that
his eyes ajc incurable, he will infoim him candidly,
as he never undertake a cure, without some probabil
ity of success.
Should any patients prcfent themselves with Cati
rafts on their Eyes, who cannot becuied but by the
operation (which he performs in a much lighter and
more improved manner than heretofore pra&ifed)
I they shall be at hbertyto bring any Do&or with them,
I in whose pre fence he w:II peitorm his operations.
His excellent EYE TINCTURE lor preserving
and ftrengih-ning weak Eyes seldom fails.—Such ben
efit to weak eyes have been received from it, that peo
ple who were obliged to use fpe6lacles for a consider.
able time, by ufingthis Tin&ure, three or /our weeks
hive laid their fpefbacles away, and read without
them. ,
j"»c *4* •aawtf
FOR SALE,
For Sale, at the Stores oftheSub
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
19.5 calks of nails alTortcd
10 bales ef fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
53 calks yellnw ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) „ , . ....
India market j Madeira Wine.
TenerifFe do. in hogfheadsand pipe#
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta Bcc.
afiorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand ro coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands aau prefTes
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I hale feaniing twine
j6o bundles sheathing paper
Nict/in (s* Griffith.
April i mth&r.tf
*«* The price of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year.~ Suifiriiers who reftde at
a dijiance from the place of publication, and
Iwhofe papers are sent per pofi, pay fix
month's fubfeription in advance, and one
dollar annually for enclofmg and dii +hng
their papers. The payments to be alivaxs
fx months in advance.<£>iTsEtte*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Jolt j.
maZtriSSS**-
THE ,
ANNIVERSARY OF INDEPENDENCE
Was celebrated in this City, yesterday,
with an universal glow of patriotism,
warm from the heart of every real A
merican.
1 he Prefidcnt received the congratu
lations of the members of both houses
of Congress, the Heads of Departments,
Militia Officers, the Cincinnati, Clergy,
and other r citizens.
The military aflembled on the occa
sion, consisted of some small detach
ments of a few of the militia companies,
infantry and artillery, and of the whole
body' of the new raised volunteer corps
in full uniform—Thefe, with the seve
ral troops of horse, formed a most bril
liant military procession.
From the center ftjuare the whole
1 marched down High-street and pailed in
review of the President of the United i
States, the officers paying the proper
m:rching salute. The President appear- :
ed greatly delighted with the exhibition,!
for it is* butjuft to fay that a finer body ;
of men than the volunteer corps, and
the cavalry of this city do not exist on
the continent.
At noon a federal salute was fired by
captain Guy's Artillery. The Bells of
Christ Church were rung at intervals
thro' the day.
The countenances of the citizens, im
mense crouds of whom Tvere aflembled,
indicated that their feelings were peculiarly
Sntereftjd ia '-he celebration of the natal
day of their country.
The Philadelphia Volunteer Compa
ny of Grenadiers under the command of
major Thomas L. Moore, yesterday made
■ its firft public appearance. After partak
ing a (hare in the duties of the parade,
the corps marched out to Buih-Hill,
j where, at the close of a frugal repast, the
following toasts were drank : *
r. The Day : May i's lustre never be
obfeured by raids from France, or itsmufic
be jarred by the crowing of the Gallic Cock.
2. The United States : May the fliadow
' of ihcr Eagle's wings cover her herees in
the heat of batt.'e, and her talons rend their
enfmies in pieces.
3. " The Chief who now comman-'a
May his wisdom and firmnefs, under Pro
vidence, prove the rock of our defence.
[Drank (landing, with $ cheers ]
4. Gecrgt Walhington: the Saviour of 1
his country [Nine cheers.] !
J. The Government: Integrity its ftitld \
an I Truth its m u tt.>->-May it long mock [
the forms 0 f faftion, and the fierce afTaults <
of-foreign violence."'
| 6. The American Fair : May the leap I
of.tpn thousand swords from their scabbards, '
to protett them, prove that the Jpirit of
chivalry is not gene. [Three cheers.]
7. Jacj bins. Confufion and infamy to r
the Jacobins, and repentance to their dupes 1
of Europe and America. \
8. l'he OppoCtien : May the man who '
dares to stop the machine of government, '
be crurtied utyjer its wheels. J
9. The decp-ton'd thunder of the Ameri- e
can navy : May it soon strike terror into
cur country's foes. c
„ Jo The army of the United States. c
11. Pinckney a>:d Marshall : Their voice If 1
was that of United America.
12. Macpherfon's Blues, and the other *
volunteer corps : Unanimity our motto, and
Independence'our aim. t
13. May the foil of cur country become n
poifoneus to traitors, and cease to nourifii u
men animated by foreign predile&ions.
14. Our National Honor: Let it bs L
lmprcfled upon the minds of the people that |
on it depends our independence and prof- j
perity. , i(
15. Seventy-fix and Ninety-eight, two '•
rival acras jn the age of glory. 2 '
A deputation from Capt. Morrell's Vo
, lunteer Greens who alio dined at Bush-
Hill, here entered the room, with the com
pliments and good wishes of their company,
—which w-re most cordially reciprocated, vi
The compliment was afterwards retunsed'by ''■
a deputation of Grenadiers, by whom it
was in arranged, that the two companies, at
at the fame moment, trumpet founding and
drums beating, draiik -p
16. Lieutenant-General GEORGE th
WASHINGTON.
The following Sorg, compafed and ls
by a member of the Corps, was received pr
wil/i loud applanfe to
VKHSI 1.
Ome all Grenadiers let us join hand in hand, ' Y
And swear by our country mid truly to stand ; m<
&ound x th« banners of liberty manfully range,
Resolved to p refer ve it anblrmi&'rt by change.
VAnri ftiould our proad foe* in their insults perSfk,
Their art* a* th. ir arms wc will firmly refill. dr
For our gloi ious freed of. Iwe drew with our breath, ft"
And with it we'll keep it unfullicd till d«-ath. Ed
U Viksz 2. on
■ Our cause truly noble, and honour our guide, wi
FTh« defence oi ourc« un'ry (hall e'er be cur pride, en
Determined her dear independence to guard,
In her happincf* only we'll feck our reward. pi,
For her every iabour endured will be Iweet r ,r
every danger we'll cheerfully meet, c | a
Tor our eloi iou-. freedom we drew with our breath r ,
And with it We'll k«ep it UHfullird till death.
Virsi 3.
Jrom our fathers who ijain'd it out freedom we
hold c °
.Aad it nc'tr by their sons lhall be coward'y fold. ,n
To guard .t our u.rfurfs !» nil freely -te spent
Put if) buy it. Colnni urn will ne'er iritc a cent'
The® kt it t>y / renchmen be well
That if we mull jmreigfe, ri r pr.ee our bUod
Por our glorious freedom wc drew with our breath
And with it we'll keep it unfullieJ till riea^h.
Several other original songs were fun j,
and the en ertainment concluded amidS udi
\erfal harmony and gratification.
At half palt seven, theicompany took up
iheir Mile < f Varch, at about eigkt
reached their parade ground in the city.
y>
n > APPOINTMENTS.
John Phrcf, Commillioner of Loans
for the State rf New-Hampfhirr.
Thomas Martin, the Dif
tricl of Portsmouth, in New Haropfh/re.
LS , Sami)el A dams, Surveyor and I fped\
s > or of the Revenue for the port of Portf
fy mouth, in New-Han pfhire.
Hugh George Campbell, of South
Carolina, mailer of a Revenue cutter.
The House of Representatives, met yesterday
s purs ant to adjournment, hut adjourned at an ear
j iy hour, without doing bufirefs.
)S Last Friday jvenm* the fubferiptiou to the patri
loan in Botlon, amounted t« 115 ajo dollars.
I- The French have re*l!y fuceeeded in part of their
de(lgnsagaiu(\i America that -of exciting foils',
but they are divisions of soldiers, who swear to live
S tree or die! in the field.
n One* of Talleyrand's m«n<?y jleas, is—" The
means vbicb France pojfcfl# imiiis country" What
d are hose mean - ? II they cxift, ought they not to
r | b ferreted from th-ir lurking holes? Certiinly
i ° ;i ßhr, and w:ll be—No wonder our French
j l tremble at a Sedition bill Shays and
Day trembled when MoJfacbufetU paffrd Sedition bills
J but the Ffbcliiou was lfiilantly annihilated after
7 I they paired. Qol. Centind.
Governar Jay has iffueda protlamation to con
-1 vene the Leg 1 flatur<j of New-York at Alba ty on
the yth Auguil *ext.
y MR. FFNNO,
r The fa<£ls in tlic annexed extras, are ©f 1
5 l, nqueftionable authenticity -they are proper
therefore for publication in your paper.
j u, y '9B. CLAUDIUS.
" M>/ rtfidcnct in Paris, during the last win
> ter,h»s enabled me to btcome acquainted with
? man 7 fifis ef a general as well as particular na
j ture, of which it may perhaps, be difficulr to
convince the people of th s country, but which
ought to be generally known.-—An unwilling
ness to volunteer, upon oci afions of this kind,
. ' ,a ' hitherto prevented me from giving them to
the puhiic.
f It appears to me all-enential that the people
. of this country fliould underftar.3 the charaAer
and conrfufl of the pretended Americans who .
in France, and who have been principally
, inftrumentaJ in producing and inflidling the in- 1
jnnej against which we rife. These people '
1 (With a few exceptions of honorable and patri- 1
: otic men) are the fugitives of America and the j
dregs and outlaws of Europe. 1 need not ob
ierve that they and their connexions here have [
been the most adlive defpoilerscf our commerce t
the most inveterate calumniators of .iircdun- i
try and our government—nor that they have
continually contradicted and embirrafftd all our <
public raiflioniries except Mr. Monroe. Dur- '
ing the last winter tl.eyhave made the most in- '
nefatigable eT.rts to divide our Comminioi/ers ; 7
they have every where and inceflantly repeated '
that general Pinckney was a known aristocrat; i
that general Marlhall had been burnt in effiey ,
for his attachment to the Britirti ; 3n d that Mr.
Gerry was <! Ibe Republican" who had brtn feflt (
to be over-ruled by :lie other two. When at <
length it was intimatrd that the de- r
manded a tribute of fifty million.-, they ih'flant- 1
ly advocated the payment of it fooaanimoufly, '■
thct I cannot even make the exception of some '
characters otherwise estimable a*d patriotic.— t
Tliey proved by calculation, that the price of a
peace would be less than the exj-ence of. war ; a
and I have heard some add, in a tone of exulta- *
' n ,oß ', if we refu ' Vd [llc payment now, we "
lh»ii!d be bro«ght to it finally. E
The afperlions of th-fe people have extended f
not only to the government, i.ut to whatever is "
most refpeflable »mong us. The vulgarity as °
well as virulence of this abuse may be judged of u
trom a speech which I Veard our Consul general ii
make use of in company when speaking of the
chaia<oer of the lirlt of patriots and of ;// £ n
" General WaJhUgtin?' laid he •' is theprouj
ejt man I ever saw, except one negro."
We have other conl'ular characters in Francs
of a similar call one of tliem has remained in
office many months since judicial proofs were
known of his covering French property by per
jury and talfe consular certificates I know not r
whether it be true that *.!r. Monroe nude a re
port in favor of this man.
< The condufl of Thomas Paiae defcrves'par- 13
ticular notice. He lives ill the house of a jouiy 21
nahft of note, who is usually the firft to publish
whatever appears host le to our country. It was c<
in the paper of this journalilt that the Prefi- .■
dent's last speech to Congress appeared, but
wholly mutilated, and altered in filch a manner, ar
by additions and omifiioni, as to excite the in-
dignation of the French and their government— th
(Jit jciirnalifl complained that he could not infrrt
ihe entire speech— yet he found room to insert
21 length, ,n French and Eriglifh, a vapid mix- ,u
t»re of prose and verse, written by Mr. Edward r
Church former |v of Boston, as a fat,re upon
the I resident of ihe United Staffs, Ahoutthree Ilc
days before I left Paris, the fame paper, (fee the
fliei Informi, of abut ihe i 7 th or iSrh of
March a pangraph o* a letter from tie
this country beginning with thele words, " the I 2
Fi enth party in the United States mereufc, more m
and more J 1
Thus the French people, (but the people are cf
nothing in France) arc rceived continually— ca
To correct misrepresentation is imucffihle, Cnce
the prels is under -the ablolute control of [he
gorernment, and a journal that happens to con- of
tain any thint which they think exceptionable,
is mftantly filtneed. One was lupprefted for f
predicting in fubltance what has Gnce happened C
to Swit/erlind.
Were I to purfuethe fubjeCl of French liber
ty through all its details, the pursuit would lead
me too tar. Ido not helitate however to fay,
that the g ivernment is, both in appearance .ind 1 ths
effefl, wholty military, and probably the most ; r oi
despotic that ever existed. The military are ' f cr
drawn out in force upon the most trifl-ng occa- ' .
lions ; and 'he people are very where aecuflom- J
ed to pass under drawn swords and files of bay- COl
onets. The conduit of the eleClions however ; f P<
will bell explain the nature of the liberty there Dt
enjoyed.
In the firft place the councils have been occu» doi
pied during the - inter pslt in taking aw.y the mn
right ot voting and , f cit.renlhip f,om whole
elnlfes of perfims to whom those rights are gua- P
r.nteed by the couftitutioii. The dirtCtorv have be
been equal y hufy in changing the n.agift itrs ol "
and ci-il ofiicert chosen by ti.e people—nnnv inii
communes have been put in a fta'eof firee. and
mai till Lw declared—and theproclaniationi of I
• the dire*f}ory, or.lained to be rein in the
cent. ry i(T-m')iie>, dilated to the peWe the kind o
I choree thry wire to make. Ha in; been in fe
veral S r «» commuiies immediately before thi
rt,.t prima y ademtiliev, 1 found that numerous ar
'■ relt.itions had t ken place of perfoas whnfe in
ung, flueuce was fear»d I prefumFthi. me fitre vi<
I Uflt. taken jhrou.rhcul t e republic. To fill up thi
nteafilre of .bufe tie direilory 1 rdered the feafl
ik Up 0 * ,h ' Sovereignty of the prnple to be celebtat
nVkt \ ' u nuf.'a! py.n;l the dav before that fove
a reigftty ~-as to he ii lu'ie4 (, y the mockery of an
cleclivn, fhefe f alts ronftft in nothing but
•military parade, mufic,and the reading of di(-
coiirles and the only ohje<S of this wjs to af
,oans f»'ib e the military in ( ;r«t towns and iulure
ttl» exdtiion of properperftns.
" "•Sealed, whit leu imcuu the French entcr-
UIO Janliveriha; the |>eo ? lc in eenertl
• "etefl ir.public lifii # ( ,0d that th- »,,v.
„ c a eO»n-nt v ew us with the most contempt.—
ortf- r" r " . lc I Hfither frri»ch nor Amen an*
uto efcrd iliac w- da-t dto refill rh~if pleasure ; nor
. that we fhou'rf hrfiueto obey their will when once
>utn li'mly prt»nouncrd.
Vlach has b on (aid here of the ro:ruotion of the
French ? r,vrr,<ment Thi> is a Itibj ti about which
-rdiv u '• odncnla "Alsbtain dtra& ptoof and of which I
, » lhcr r t ' ore wi'h more c..u ion. Certainly ihc
lc r * oer.on« who compofc ihvt <ovc>rnme«tt ire either the
m-lt corrupt or ihe nioli injured of men ; (pr never
Ibe I'eve - aj a „ v rifnerit more generally detcd
,atri- cd - Almo l aljtbc peopleTpeak of ihem with con
liars. tCrn P l ®'*d il»hOfrencc, when 'hey h*ne the opoortu
nrty ol rpr3kiiigff CC jy. It is univer la'lv uu le. stud,
rjicir l , 2i ' hc ' 010,1 h ,re venality is prait.ied a> the
'/tats* ? ,reftof y andamonvthr ministers In tances of this
jj ve have come to my knowledge.
lori'e from such details, I consider
rr-> P ra »ce as (he fai-eft and b:(l portion o' Europe—iti
exhtiiftab ein national riches—fwarmi.'.g winia wop*
»« ulj-ioa, thf gieitrr part ol which is profoundly ig
-0 i o am, and imp icitly ob?dient to whoever leigiuin
unly Paiis. I confi-lcr that ccunrry as governed by the
nch moll perfectly organized and mok despotic execu
land live thai e-er exifled. H.rralTed by a' rapid fuc
nbillt ceOion of revoluiio -s, ano borne down, a)l of
after them, by the hand of power, the oeop'e fi«h for no
d. ihing but peace and rrpofe. ilut I .epeat it the p=o
pie are noihingm Franc:. The governmcn find an
con- ,n i tprc(l " n «cep»nT up war : and even if they
yon 1 abroad, the country will be ated by
domcftic faction for years.T£rro come.
» aiftJWarch, '9B.
■erf, GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
jper »
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED,
Ship Liidy Lilienfhield, Arc.ians, .Hamburgh,
« c , „ Prom the Fort, ( 8 |
Scbr. George, Hacq.tin, Si. Martin
-to CLEARED,
.ich Br 'S, C " rner ' M< Keever, Hamburgh
1 he Gen. Cutter, Capt. Price, ar
"o rived yerterday from a crt.ife.
, ' , The , Delaware sloop of War was at N. Caf-
J and expelled to leave that place
1 ycilerday morning.
JP e Char'cjlon, June ?c,
, , Arrived (hip Corneiia Elcoqora, Wuitecken, Bour
-1 0 deaux, bo days.
illy Several letters received on Satnrday, by the (hip
in- Cornelia Eleonora, from Bourdeax, mention that ev
iple cry article of Well-India produce, and tobacco, is ve
trl- ry fcaree and dear there. A-cargo of upwards of
the 3®° "ogfheadi of tobacco, which arrived from Phi
ob- wa! 'old.on board for «to livres per hun
d'fd : 10 » tcw hours after, the p urchjfer was oflter
ed ,0 per cent advance on his purchase. There waa
not a barrel of brown sugar at market; co(f M was
un- worth 3 livres (55,1'-i cent j) per lb. L
ive The Englith velfeis of war had captured so manv
, ur of the French prmateers, aod so many of the A m-r
-- - lean veffets had been relkre'd th« were captured, and
in- hca . v y Co ß».»djudged againfl.the captors, that tktar
rs , mtteurf, or owners, wcie difcouraped, and it wal 5
ted '" S pnvateerhig Wourd be abandoned.
I!,e . En Sh(h vessels do not interrupt Am-rican vef
«• France ; the j- speak thrtn, and.yermit,
tgy them to proceed to th< it purt of deilinanon.
. r .7 l ] erc '''" rt, " Bourd " ux i when capt. Wuffecken
ertt failed, were, thatgtn. Buonaparte was at Brett ; thjt
at 1 4°° K» n boats were tollcfled there ; that so ooc
le . men had already embarked ; and that the defcer.t on 5
nt- England would be attempted in 4or 5 weeks after
ly, ■'■ 'A P " L of the gun boats,
'l fi '0. werecalcula'ed to throw (hells.
- Verbal account,; ga.hered from this vessel, fay that
the Toulon fleet, confiding of the Venetian veffc r,
ot and thole which were in Toulon, had joined the flee,
r; at Brctl; that on their way, thev had appeared off
ra- Madeira, where they destroyed a numb, ,of filhins
wc vessels, and lome €ngli(h ships : that a number ot
t.ench privateers had fallen in with 28 foil of
led " , mcn '. ar ; d «P'»r-d the whole ; fit of the- p.izea
nad arrived at theCprdova.a, when the Coruelia Ele
onora left ft.
a » Amerie.ii veirels weie airi.ing and departing as
U usual ; and there was no report or appeaiance of an
a I immediate rupture with America,
he
By this day's Mail.
cs •
in NEW-YORK Jiily 2. •
re There 13 at Quebec a sixty four pun (hip,
ot " hich Wtf tinderlland has been offered for
lale to Government.
She was launched tbe 14th May last and
r- 13 incomplete failing order, having her guns
jy and water calks on board,
lb It is to be wi(hed, that government per
• ' cetving the great service (he may be of,par
j' t ticularly as a defence to the port as New-fork
r , » nJ delay attending the buildidg ofvef- '
0 . Fes will he inclined to extend permtlfion to \
- the prelident to purchase said (tip. i
ft a
ft A Boston paper mentions that lad Sun- c
day week ten fquarc rigged vessels failed '
n from that port—all carrying the Repub- -
, e Itcx ultima ratio.
Ie —-
>f A letter just received in town from a gen- 6
n tlemnn in the Havannah, mentions that of F
12 or I 3 vessels that failed together from P
'' New Orleans for the Havannah, only three a(
, C of whom he was one, baS tfcaped being "
_ captured by the Britilh. f r
e as
e On the 4th June the Attorney General ct
1- of Upper Canada, abtained leave to bring
• in a bill for preventing the mischief arising
from the abase io priu.ing ncwspapaari.
COMMUNICATION, f
1 FRIGATES. l» k
We sincerely Congratulate our readers, T ,
i • that the citizei sos New-York air at length ,h
i ; rousing into aiftion. T-he voluntary sub- ha
| j fcription for building frigates mounts to 41
■ nearly 701000 dollars. Altho we are as yet
; coufiderably behi::d Pliiladelphia, and the
r 1 fpinted town of Baltimore ;yet' we advance Cc
: Dutchmen like with a flow, but a sure pace Vi
Baltimore has raised upwards of 60,000
dollars ; a d as our population is three ti res
■ more numerou —the patriotism and high _
sprits of our citizens? will never fuffcr it to
, be told in the historic-page, that they were .
i ut by Baltimore, cfpecially as we aic A
• infinitely more exposed. i ll
I fortifying
Q" » hurfd j lad the cilizens* began to 1 1
groond f T fortify ittg ttie Battery,
j Every heart will htave a Ggh tgf.e tlse li
the J** w<!lc in lite world defrayed, We mud
ar- f 'rego this, a d every pecuniary confijrra
;B. lion to f.vc-. ur liberties; «nd uar violated
was Independence. Application having been
'he ina e to all dur cftiiens at ■ Kcir houses to
east fcbrtribute their voluntary labor, or pay it
j the Tite of icj»per day £-.r forttiica
an tions— It i; said the Mayor, Col. Hamil
hut ton > a d fcvcral of our principal charaftera
till- havci enrolled thetnfclvos to work personally
as —As therfc feting to be but qm opinion
ur: throughout America, for Handing vigorouf- -
|( f ly, aiid to i man,on olir defence agaioft any,
ra] ( an( l every hoitile power ; we are' happy to
;ov- add, fhere are few indeed who havi refused
■ ito be enrolled to work or pay —and it is ob
" served, that mod of these tew are AIL
w.e j ENS. * • *
[we lull our correspondent will not be
j£jj difplcafed at the omifflon of his concluding
, i remarks.]
SALEM, June 22.
eilJ On Tutfday lad ariivtd the (hip Martha,
j„. capt. John Prince, from the Isle of France,
tu- haviug performed the voyage in 7 month*
and 12 days.
The Martha failed from the Isle of France
the firli of April, and left there the (hip
j" President Adams, Miller, to fail in 10 days
for Batavia, (hip Huron, Brown, jtiftarri
ij. ved from B.urdeaux ; /loop Juliet, S'ner
>i'> man, <0 fail in 4 d:iy» for Batavia Ship
America, Newell, failed for Hamburgh 28
uc! of March. June 13, lat. 32 N. lor.g.
lot 57, W. spoke brig R ff.lj, Abecl, 12
days from New-York, bound to Hifpauiola.
Tn. J uuf 2 °' lat " 39. 'oiK- 63. 30, spoke
icy a brig 12 d .ys from Baltimore, tor Ham
by burgh June 25, lat. 4c, 35, long: 64,
spoke fchr. Fanklin, 4 days from Boston,
for Curracoa.
The ship UlyfTcs, capt. Jofiah Orne, of
this port for Batavia, and the Thomas Ruf
ft.ll, of Boston, for Cnnton, failed from
hence on Tuesday each, hiving 10 guns and
25 men. *
'j' The (hip Friend(hip, capt.' Israel Wil
j n Hams, of this port, from B.tavia, is in at
Portland, iu 105 days,
gh
tr- The Aurora of the 20th calls Mr. G:rry
" the Patriotic Gerry." Let us remember
this, for Bache mu!t yow give credit to what.
co Mr. G. fays and uoes.
ur- June jS.
Extras of a letter from Thomas Truxton, efq
>'P to a friend in tbii town, dated on board thi
United States Jrigate Conjlellation, at sea 11
'g' f 7"t'-
) i_ " I am this moment discharging the pil"t,
n _ distance from Cape Henry between three an
, r _ four leagues. My care, good Sir, of your pro
'as- perty in the fleet, white under my protedlior.
'as (you cannor, from our long acquaintance doubt.)
May success attend your honorable purfui s 1
ny every undertaking as a merchant, and a fpeeel
r ~ peace be the result of the efforts of our govern
' ment to proteil the trade of its opprefled cit
aj zens. My (hip is fully manned and well equip
• ped."
■ ~
»'' ''mud be highly gratifying to every American to
r<s.:Ct on the protection which will br affrrded ri
n tliiscoaftby the Conftellaiicin frigate ; and too much
ft praise cannot be given to her worthy command r foi
>O. his indefatigable exertions in gelling the fhi.i to sea
IMPORTED
In the Lady Lilienfchiel<i,eapt. Arcaans, frcm
it Hamburgh,
«. Brown Silefias
Platilles Royales
White icklenburghs
)t Dowlafles
Stripe*, Checks aad Roll*
's For Sale by the Subfcriher.
> George Pennoel.
j»'y ; 2 :.wrf
" _ -to be Let,
A small airy House,
In Gcrmsmoun, at rent. Enquire of Mrs.
Hand, in Prune (Ireet July s _. t
Tale Sold,—
A two story iraine House,
WITH the lot ot ground thereto beltnging, si.
, tuatvd on the w«l» lide of .Filth ttrcet. between
r Lombard anil South flreets. the house is about
17 lest front ; and the lot xt sett in front and 9"
feet deep, to an alley of to Ic-.t. Tfce whole is
1 clear of ground rent. For't-rn»», apply t<»
> COA'i'hS,
No. 8», South Front ftreec.
■ ) u] 7S *<) 2vT
removal!
J 'MES HUMPHREYS, jttn. Notary Public and
conveyancer, has removed his office from No. 61 Wal
nut Street, ro No. 65 in the fame Iheet between Se
cond and Dock-ftrects, ill inltrumcots in writ
ing in cither branch of buHocfs are drawn with carc
a: 'd dilpatch Real eltatcs bought and fold npon
commiUjon, and money piocured ucon Joan on good
real fecuiity. ' 0 (
J u '> .5*
Artillerists.
THE pattern of uniform agreed upon by th *
6th w ompany of Artillery, may be fe#n at Capt
Handle s, in Race street, by the members or such
pcrfons as they may employ ; where an article of
agreement is prepared for luch as would wi!h to ii
unite in a contra# for a number of fuiw. C i
Capt. Handle, one of the committee appointed ai
for the admilfion of new mem' ers, will receive h
applications from such citizen , of good moral
character,as are desirous to join said company. *>
JOHN WOODSIDE, Cuptain. _
Light Infantry—Attention !
THh members of the Ft, Ural LMt Infantry Com
pany, attached to the lft Regiment of Philadel
phia County Miliria, will r
TAKE NOTICE. £
That the Governor has been pleased to rommilTion
the Officers for the said Company ; and that they as
have .tppoinred Tuesdays and Friday,, at half pa'i i,
4 o'clock in the morning, for parade. The man- pu
bers are requclted to give their attendance accord
mS]y' ed
1 hose persons who are inclined to join r>ie said tr.'
Company, aic requcfted to ap;,ly at No. :6\ va
Vinc-llreet; No 336, North Second llreet: oron be!
the Paiade.
N. B Good Music is provided. Fo
j" JIe " T 9 en
7*o It Let, rc
(And pofft (lion given 011 the if! of May) frp
A genteel three itory brick House, "
12 with hack buildings in
ai. 1 tlih!ea.at prefect in th L -tenure cf Major J, c:c- qu
sun. Enquire at jg; lhird ftrec;.
aptil ». 5
* .' I
T ' -»Ailetitian!' LctVhU* '}
'» At a ireetinj of , num!«r'of cinteni he .1 it
WWW Wi fii:., Ogrf.-n, CbfttLp-. : •
ra- OP railing a trnop of Uorfe (tr>be.ai'nhi ' tr4
cd [, acphcrfon -.ue- 1m e ;'jlluu Tug >*e.tH<iiirit
cn woe appoipti-il *ll- c..(fling coniu.ineci
to Robeit Wharton I'li-ftrttt WMtf ,
James Simmons . Nn ISo pifth ltrc«
Jonathan Kcbefoa > h ptuce-flreet Whfc f
lohn !<. 1 aylpr No j Church alley
Sjnvurl Keith »77 So. F.ynt llrcit
:rs Npafiord Drory P 2 » Arpk-ftreet
lr H< " r V vt Pine-firert
an . 1 holc gentlemen of the City an.<l LiWrti'H
]fj * arc lirfir'.iu* of brenjning members of ihjt!
fame will apply at fie houic of either of tlii
J> committee or at the house of Mr. William Dit
to den in Chefnut.fi ret every TuefJay and Friday
ed evening, where thty will auend fr»m 8 to. a
bo clack for that purpose.
I. June » 7
. *. * The different frinieri of tlx city are re
-1(> qwUed to DutlJ/b the fore^yinjr.
, e Lands tor sale by private ContratT,
Proposals will be received, by the fublcriber,
until tke firlt day ot |K-lt, for the
purchase of any - f the following verv valuable
trails of land with their improvements.
I ' In the State #f New-York,
f' No - *• Two kits of ground situate l'ft the
county ot Albany in the to,*n called L.infing
bargh, and diftinguilbed or known on a map of
ce laid town by the names of No. 71 and 72.
Ip *• ' wo trails of land situate in the town of
We'l-Chetyeiy the one of them near Olive.-Ue-
! ,nc y ■> John-Cox's and J-'hn Palmer's land* ad
joining Brouhs River, ihe other of ihcm (leaf
U<rVilard s fnufT mill, Ddancy's land and ad-
Ip joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
>8 84 acres.
S" ,i J " A of land situate in the county of
12 X . . tr l °'i tke road from Kingi-Uricge
t,. t0 Dt, " nc :' 3 Mills containing ahm.t (,6± acres'.
l 4* tritfl of 'and situate in Moore >inery
county, being a piict fcf the tract called JelW.
• - jturcha.e and known and dlilinguifhed in a'divi
4, fionof the fait! purchafsioio t6wnlhi,;s by heiitir
n, part of toWnfkip N». 4. beginning at ihe S VV„
bounds ot said purchase and at the fouthe ly cor .
0 f nrr of said townfliip containing by eftimatio 1
[ j-_ bout 5611 acres.
S- A trail of lam] situate in the county ef
a Montgomery, aforefaid, being alio 1 part of
1 K"«P s porchafe and known and diltinc -i ltd
in divilion ot the said purchaSe into town y i B ,
Jl. by being part of ; to»n:hip N„. ~ be s ,n:,: r/at
at 5. VV. bounds of ianl towniHipat the liill ij,ce of
26a chains and jo links front the molt foi it herly
corner thereof.
traifl of land situate in CJ'fter countv.
ty being part nf the tract of land known ! v rte
ifr name of the Great or Hardenirurghs pa ft, coi:-
.at. taining ab-.ijt.6oco atrts.
7* ot laiiil lituaie in the cjnnty of
Uliler aforefaid on the X. E. fifle of the river
Delaware, being alio 1 part of the lan j f< riner-
■)' granted to Johannes rAid other#
/j, commonly the name of ilc- Great
j6 patent it being a part el a great lo' No. r. in
me general partition of said patent w kichcams
to the thareof 1 homas Newham one of the'
| proprietors, and is known ami diftinguiflied on
0 the mats ot tile sub division therso. made by
n, Vv ebb, surveyor in the ytar 1751 t)y
.) 'OtNo.6O; this land'runs some ihitancc ,>ll the
n river Delaware and c&Btiins aboet 35 7 icres
j 8. A trad of land in the county of Ulster a
n in tbefouth tier of lots in the Harcien
t. burgh patent being the lot No. ,t, containinvj
about 1 j,6joacres excepting thercsut acres
heretofore grant by Robert R. L.vitu-fton to
Nathaniel Sachel.
lo 9. .4 traflof land situate in the county of Ul-
Iter, beginning 011 the Papekunk river, _nd ad
:h jpinmg tne 14th monumer.t in the general divii
„ lion ot the Hardenburgh patent, contaioin^
about 3000 acres.
several parcels of land, situate in the townfliip.
m ?ir r the coun 'y ' f Tl °g» «" 'he S.
VV. fide of 1 loga river, the fame being part of
a trail of about acysco acres, thefetwo feventlvc
contain about 5763 acres.
ir. One equal and undivided seventh rfrt of
the 1 aitl 20,000 acre traisl iii county beint?
2bout 5,886 acres.
12. One equal and undivided seventh part of
/aid 20,600 acre trafl in Tioga countv beir:«»'al
io about 2,886 acres. ' 0
In the State of Maryland.
13. A trail of land now called Bayley's pur
a'e ln Prmce George's county, near in a bar
or cove called, Anoccftin core, containing ahoc't
ii! 2 acres ot prime l .nd.
14 • A trfcil ot land called Fortune
and pa It of a tradt railed Dcall's advemu, en
larged, botn lying in Prince Oeortja's county on
. CJ " :crn btaneh of the Potomtc*,«oi;'am.n K
n about ,16 acres. • *
t 15. A tract of land wiili the and im«
provement called Aron, lymg on i» e eaft.rn
s 01 Jnch o'. the river Potomack. opp«li ;e lo the
o* ." aihington in Prince George's torintV
contai/fujg about *75 acres.
16. A 1 raCl of land wtih the hnutVj, mills,
other buifdi .g, and improvements lying , It; 'r
ort Lumlerland in the county of V\'afliin"t<jii
containing aSout,io3B acres.
'7. A trad of land lituats in the county of
vValdington, adjoining t.i Fort Cuinhei land,
«oiitJining 400 acres or thereabout..
'B. One undivided,no,ety of a trail of land
n Allegany county, called I'pruce fprine, the
■vhole or which contiins about i JO acset, aMo
one undivided moiety of a 34 tracts or lots of
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres.
«nare numbered from joo lo 799 iiultfivt,
on-.ming and excepting three lots which ~re dif
t.nguifliedl by the numbers 661, 66a and C2 4 all
which said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia-
A tra.fl of Meadow land with eonl'ideraWe
improvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorrell',
creek, Muddy creek and the river Fotomack •
and adjoining the city of
by patent 29: acres. ' 6
Ed-ward Fox, auctioneer.
Philadelphia, June s th, 1798. 2 aw
Bafkenridge— for sale
TT consists of 9 ioacreF, .Intaft all o) which
JL a fine rich ,Meadow, (the refidc.-icoof the late
Eorl of St-r.ingJ. It may be conveniently duid.d
mtofive (arms, lourof which are U.undedon tic
Earthy the river I'afaiek.
i'h ; r- are on it a number of building,, formin.
afquare o! «c,rly three acres-', 1,, d wellin, houl
i! a vary convenient one jiiid,* wouul
put it in complete repair.
_The orchard confiHsof i/oo fimbearing envi
ed Apple 1 fees -and there is on other p„ • 101 said
trait near 300 other A rr le IW-a-ilfo ,
variety of other fruit.. partienbelya.errie.oi the
bcl k and moil delicious Jcinds*
Alio a great number of hcantifgl Exotics and
Foreit lreo., that add to tlw beamy ...nd cc.-„eni
cnce of thr pla:e. Itsfituation i> a!.; ut r8 miict
of Newark aod Klit.ich:
fr«nMorr:s.Town k »nd,a from .s r rin K ficld-I t
is wooded and watcu d.
■ I \ favc tre » blc . price is f vepound r r acre
in calh, on delivery of rhe ree P.eale
ulrc of T. Vcil'-N & Co.
1 78, Chelnut trc«t.Isaac Hartey, jun.
VMS FOR SALE;
At No. 9, South Watir-steiit,
A QUANTITY or
Prime Aux-Cayes Molafles
Carolina Rice
Cod Filh, in hhds. and
A parcel of men's and worn efts Combs, aflorted.
ALSO,
A few tons of Nicaraqua Wood.
June 27
John Miller, Jun.
K®. CHttNVT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muicovado quality, which h« offers for
sale very Uw for cash or at 6o days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, kc. &c.
June 5 dtf
Bourdeuux Brandy,
£larct in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret ">
Frontinac ( i. Cafe
Saut»rne f
Lunii j
Red Skins
A_L S <9,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxesof white H a van na Sugar —and
50 Hogsheads of Tobaaco
rOR SALE BY
- JOHN SAVAGE.
a dtf
Sebastian Voigt,
CLOCK WATCHMAKER,
INFORMS hi* friends and the public in gen
era , that be has removed from No. 149, North
Second-street, to Mirket, between Fourth and
Fif h-Arrets, No. 173, where he carriesonthe
above business in ail its various branches.
He keeps as usual a general aflortmeni of war
ranted watches,
june 25 dim
FOR SALE,
800 pieces of bail Cloth
io tot-so; She#t Lead
Apply f
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
]une T5 $
"Madras ana Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
•f the liewcil approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN» FOR SALE BV
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 118. $
tttndtwg;
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, James Yardfley, mailer, froal j
Port au Prince,
88 Hog flicks ") Pr ; meSuf ,, r .
40 I icrt«s >
Hogfteid. "> Coffcc .
iij Bags )
FOR SALE BY
Thomas fc>* John Ketlani.
WHO HAVE ALSO ON HAND,
Ironmongery and Cutlery in packages
Guns ill of ted in cases
Queen's ware in crates
Claret in hhds and cases
Port wme of a superior quality in pipes, hhds;
and quarter calks
New-York aad Boston Beef, &c.
June 16 ■ §
Frefli l eas.
Jiy) Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And Far Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
JVt his Compting House, No. 54, Che£nut»ftrcet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Hou'e, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong,Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, a*d Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afiar ted ; black and coloured Lute
ftri i«s and Sattins, Nankeens, Cafiia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
Tbey Lave also For SaJe^
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. $
ADVERTISEMENT.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command rtf captain Edward Miller, fta
tioiifd at Spring Gardens.
June id, 1198 —John M'Kiflbck, born in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
marked, aged iS years, speaks broad, mlifted
byenfign Root, at New Biunfwick, had on his
fuil regimentals, stole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard and very alfuming.
June 61/j—James Crawford, born in Cheller,
State of Mafiachufetts, hrownhair, grey eyes,
fair c mplexion, five feet 11 inches in height,
aged 34 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
bis full regimentals and left bis pert when on
frntry. also,
EliakimStow, aprifoner, born in
State of Conneilicut, aged 36 years, black hair
dark eyei and complexion, a repeated cieferter,
▼ery alTuming, writes a tolerable hand and is ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental fliirt a»d over
alls when ht deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above delerters
and return them to Spring Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to any officer belonging to the United
State! or confine them in any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained lhall have ten
dollars reward for either of them, br thirty for
the three >n<' all reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry.
The different printers ia the union are
jequcfted to insert the above,
june 11 §
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, Ihiceanda half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofu : t the purchasers. —
These situations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to anv near the city,
and the road known to b« fafe and at ail
fcafons of the year. The title intlifputable—A
plan of the grounds is in the bands of the fub
fci i; cr, * h" will make kivwri th* terms oil *p
plication to him at his office No. 114 South
J-ourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 1. 3tawtf
| NOTICE.
| TAMES CUMMING {3* Co. late of the city of
J Philadclphi , having aftignedover
( certain lands, book-del- I, fpreialties, &c. &c. to
the fubfcribt r«, for the benefit of chose creditors
who have claim* against them prior to che year
1797, that have or Ihall fubfcriSe the said aflign
ment within fix months from the date thereof
(aßth May, 1798) Therefore,
All pcrfons who are indited to said es
tate, for debt* contra&cd before the month of
June, *797, are hereby required to make imme
diate payment of their refpc&ive accounts, to the
at their office, No 6», Dock ftrcet—in
failure whereof, be inflituted for the
recovery of such debts immediately dif
chatgdi.
John Trails,
John H r addi gtov, V AiTignecs.
James 7ay lor, J
june «7 mwftiS
An Anchor found.
ABOUT three miles b*low the Cross Ledge, a
buoy was discovered on the eastern fid« of
the channel, which, on being weighed, brought
up an anchor of abowt 500 wt. without a cable to
it. There is no weight (lamped on the anchor,
nor any mark on the buoy or anchor (lock. The
owner, ,by applying to the fubferiber, on board
the schooner Mahala, at Levi Hfllingfworth's
wharf, and paying reasonable charges and expell
ees, (hall have it again.
ARTHUR ROBBINS,
Captain of the Schooner.
N. B. The Anchor will be left with i,evi Hol
lingfworth & Son, in conformity to the a& of the
State Legislature in such cases provided.
June 17 taw am
A liberal price will be given
For a Negroor Mulatto boy about ten or twelve
years old : he will be emancipated when twen
ty eight yeart of age A line left at this office
for A. B. will be duly attended to.
June »7 *at
Millenary Room,
146, Market street,
Mm cHRYST AL,
INFORMS her friends, that she has received by
the late arrivals from Europe, her usual iupply
of tTie very latest fafliions in MILLENERY, &c.
with a £reat variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HA IS and BONNETS* of the newest shapes,
which will be opened this day.
fune 11 10
NOTICE,
'"I"'HE Owners or Consignees of veflTels per
1. forming quarantine are to take notiee that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning (Sundaysexcepted) such fuppliesas are to
be forwarded to vessels are desired to be lent to
the Health Office before the hour of nine,
june 8 i
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, white Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Ercerties
Gorahs Mow Saunas
Mamoodies PeniafcOes
Tickirites Baftas
Romalls CoflTas
Doreas Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzies Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mor dec at Lewis.
«n av a 5. iw qa wrw
The Rev. Dr. Blair's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
Is just Published, by
James Watte»s, iff Co.
And may also be had of the principal booksellers.
The firftvolumeoftheWeekly Magazine
With an appendix containing the Prelidcnt't.
meiftge and the dispatches is now published,
and may be had of the publilhers—the prin
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia—by George
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somervill
New-York*—A few copies of the Difpatche
may be had feparatc.
may 2$ eodtf
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an* Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Counted of Leicester Packet, in the nth
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft.
40©o uollars per cent. Stock, (landing or the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, 1797-
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Trcafuryof the United States, and at the Bank of
United States ; of Which all persons interested
therein, are delired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 mo. a 6, 1798.
aawjm
LOST,
ON THE FOURTH INSTANT.
A NOTE OF HAND, George Pennock, to
J. Dorfey, and S M. Fox, which fell due
on that day and was duly paid. The Bank receipt
is on it, therefore it is useless to any other than the
owner. The parties %ill be oblige to any person
who shall teturn it.
June 8 3taw3w
Brown Stout.
jo calks BROWN STOUT, of 6 an-I 7 doi.esch,
Jull received per capt Joyce, and for sale by
Benjamin IV. Morris,
LIKBWISE,
200 cases CLARET, of the very firft quality.
June 9. • mw^ht
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK V WATCHMAKER,
Corner of Front and Market Street.
WHERE he is just opening a very extensive
supply of clock dials, cast brass, bells, for
ged work and pinions, pumice (lone and emery,
sheet br fs, hard and bench .vices, witch and cloc
plyers, large and small files, shoe and knee chapes,
chain?, fealsand keys, gold, gilt audlilver watch
as, fpringand weight clocks.
jun - ' w tu&stf
This Day is Published,
AND FOR SALE 3Y J. TFN NO, T (Q,CH ES NUT-S** RUT 1
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and p relent ft ate of 1
French aggrellion. with t (ketch o! the infamous '
attempts to degrade the Government of the United '
States, and Tome reflections on the la'e proceedings |
in Congrels; written the last of April in the pre- '
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen- 1
tar. es. § june 11
Cotton
f Cocoa
r Aoatto Dye, or
0 P.ocoa
s Just arrived, per the schooner Three Sidere, Will
r iam dhallcrjfs, mailer, from Cayenne,
AND FOR SAL r AT
f No. 12, Little Water-street, by
JEHU HOLLINGSWOKTH & Co.
June 10 $
[ Silk and Cotton Hoiiery,
e ASSORTED IN TRUNKS.
1 T ADIES and Gentlemen's (ilk and cotton Hose,
e -Li received by the Adriana, from London, and
will be fold very low, for cash or good notes, at
27, North Third Jlreet.
June 10. cod wfm2w
NO IV LANDING,
From on board the ship fr'our Friends, and for sale
at the Store* of
JESSE ROBERT WALN,
, A cargo of Havanna Molaifes.
f june 13 §
; The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret inhhds.and Cases
i Oyl,Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
Thomas F'ttxfimons
may 26. $Uw
WANTED, "
AN Overseer, who is capable of taking the
entire management of a Farm, consisting
of 150 acres, within miles of the city: he
must be well recommended for honesty and so
briety, and pofiefs a complete knowledge of
farming—a good stone house will beappropriated
for his dwelling.
WANTED ALSO,
A Dairy Woman, to take care of 6 or 8 cows
and to do other work-—Enquire of the Printer,
june 28 diw
FOR SALE,
A neat Coachee,
WITH Venetian blinds and glalTes, plated har
ness, all in complete order, and little worse than
new. —also —
A pair of gentle Bay Horfej
may be had at a moderate rate.
Apply at No. 52, South Second street.
June 13 d7t
OX BhtF.
100 Barrels ) of Beef of b.ft quality, put
50 half Barrels J up with earefor s.
100 Barrels of Conne&icut Pork.
50 Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lifboo
300 Cales of Fr.nch Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
ao Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landeaberger's Wharf.
may 4 eodt[
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse (jf Robet Wain,
On jpruce street u harf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. calks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16. eotf
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of spruce-street near Second-flreet,
idjoining the wall of Mr. Jones'a garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq. —This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen andahandfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
Asany Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fidered unnecefi*ary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG y
No. 13 Dock-Jlreet.
may 16 J
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT PropofaU will be received for a Collect
or of the f'oor Tax of the present year for
tha City of Philadelphia—one for the North rn
Liberties and one for the Diftridfc of Southwark
-vho will be required to give such security as fhali
be approvad of by the Board of Guardians.
Any person desirous of having -either of the
above appointments is requested to bring far
ward the names of his. feeurities on or before
Wedncfday next the 27th inft. to
Edward Shoemaker,
127 Market-lireet.
June 21. d2W
yusr RECEIVED,
By the Adriana from London,
And for sale at tbis Office.
A few copies, in French, of a work entitled, —
" Hiftoire de I'adminiftrarion des finances de la Re
publique Francaife, pend nt l'anncc 1796. Par
Sir Francis d'lvernois."
Also,
A few copies of another production of tile
fume writer, entitled,
" Tableau hiftoiique et politique de radminif
tration de la RepuMique Francaife pendant Tannee
1797, des causes qui ont amene la Revolution du
4 Septembre, et de fes Refultats."
june 15
Salisbury Eitate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrail his bufi
nef«, offers this Efhte for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and threo Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair,as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thoulaod acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfadnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the meta\, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture,and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river; and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing 1
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace, '
and which maybe converted into a variety of other '
nfeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat- 1
ed with all theftock and utensils, and have pofteflion '
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
inav be madein the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, fore try pan will be delivered
ir> good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. Sic. For [
lenns, apply to Mr Jo cph Anthony, in Philadel- t
phia; David Brooks, Efq.one ofthe Reprefentat-ives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Water man, on
thepremifes, or tothcnrooiietorin New-York
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. <. 3 » wt f
Fir 80/ ion,
~ in THE SCROONIR
l&vtfes, li E 1 S E 7,
A'oiv lying at Cbefnttt Jlreet
'John P. majlcr.
Anewveflel, ico Toos Burthen, fitted as a
Packet, and ha« excellent accomodations for
paflciigera For freight or passage apply to
the matter on board, or to
jtfeph Anthony £/ Co.
Mflf 19 eodjt
i FOR LIVERPOOL,
THC SHIP
liberty,
CAPTAIN. BRAY*
i /W" A regulir tracer, and having
t h« greater part of her cargo en
gaged ; —will fail on or about the lOth of next
menth. For term 3 apply at No. 74, North Front
(tre£t, or to
Roft fcT Stm/on
june 25 $
For London,
£"2Ln the barque
A D R I A N A.
SHE is now ready to take in, and will
fed > n a Ihort time, having part of
her cargo engaged.—For freight or passage (having
excellent accommodations) apply t* the fctSfcrib
crs, or on board the valTcl at CUT>rd*s whvf
Knox, Henderjon, iff Co.
No. 46, North Front Jlreet.
Who have for Sale,
A Hand Tome AfTortment of the most
Fa(hionable Goods,
Imported in the Adriana, captain Lee, from
London, lately arrived, under convoy.
jnnr 23 §
For Hamburgh,
** k j£T2""V. T^ c faft failing Ship
Lit tie Martha,
(launch. good veflel, in com
pjetc or 4 cr . t^e g rea test part
of her cargo engaged, and will fail with all possi
ble expedition. For Freight, apply t»
Joseph Anthony Iff Co,
iune 21. $
FOR LONDON, '
t—The copper bottom-d ship
sally,
Captain Lockyer.
A conliderable part of her
cargo is already engaged ; —to
fail with all convenient speed Fur termt ap
ply to ROSS (St SIMSOr
No. in, South Front-fireet.
juite 13 V
LANDING,
\t Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Browiii
Ma A or, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas & John Kctland.
, Said Brig for iale,
two pair four pound CAN
• NQN, and one pair i%lb. CAR
may 29 §
James C. Sam I. W. Fijher,
No: 13 Arch-Street,
Have for Sale
200 Calks best refined Salt Petre
Best London Window Glass from 10 by 8 to
11 by 10 1
Ditto Glass Ware in-Cafks aflorted confiding
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glafles, Goblets, &c.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 17 3awtf
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land. <
IN Greene county, Commonwealth of Pennfyl- '
vania, oa the waters of Fifli and Wheeling '
Wrecks and Ten Mile Run.
These 1 and* arc fertile and well timbered, and 1
abound in Coal } they were fold ten years ago for ;
five (hilling* per acre ; patented early in 1787, e- '
cept 370 acres, which were patented in 179* ; ;
part of them were surveyed in 178.?. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from 1
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the 1
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment ot one ipirth of thepurchafe mo
usy, a reasonable credit will be given for the refi- 1
due. Enquire of the Printer, 1
april 11. § ,
TO BE SOLD, |
26,780 acres of Land, J
IN the State of New York, between the northern >
bounds of Pennfylvauia and the Sufquehauna t
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warreu and county of Warren. (
/These Lands, I r om their quality and situation. \
are a very definable objc § for any man who meant (
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo- (
ney, a reasonable credit will c given fgr the refi- \
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2 T. Vh t
FOR SALE, ~ |
Two three story Brick Houses t
With convenient stores, wharf, &«. fituatcon {
I Water street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
I Streets, containing in front on Water street sis- 1
| ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east- c
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the 1
iouth thirteen feet fix inches. These houses c
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin- I
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit- (
uation for a a merchant, flour faCW, or others *
who may have occalion for storage of goods. *
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for cash. for further information apply
to the printer. April 5 m&wtf r
FOR SALE, t
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, p
50 Cherts of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING ot Imperial, Hyson, Souchong, n
HyfonSkin, Young Hyfou and Bohea, just ar
rived in the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; several com- c
plete sets of elegant China ; 1000 pieces of Nankeen 0
of superior color and quality; a few pieces of eom
mori Madrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In- U
dia Silks, confiding »f Lutefirings, Sarlnets, Persians,
See. Sic. ot different colors. H
a lso, for sale —Entitled to the drawback, si
5000 boxes of Pate Grafle Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, jult received by
the ship Juno and lofeph from Amsterdam. T
T. B. Free nan, 1
No. 39 South Front-ftrert, or at his counting
houfc, No. South Water-llrect. a
may 30. ufit i 1
Bank of North America,
June 30tb, 1796.
AT a meeting of the Direflors, it w a apretd
to declare a Dividend of Six per Cent :
for tbe half year ending this day— which will
be paid to the Stockholder! or their legal Re
t prefentativca at any time after the tenth day of
July. Bj order of tbe Bawd,
, JOHN SIXON, PrefiJent.
jt"c 3Q_ dtujy
NOTICI-— That the'firft Tues
day of Augult next, it a,pointed for the
htaring before a Court of Common Pleat, of Al
legheny county, in theStateof Pcnnfylvaaia, on
an application lor tbe benefit of the acftn of thia
State, providing for tbe relief of insolvent debt
ors, having at June term last presented my peti-•
tion, wi h a fchep.le anntnl, of all my estate,
real, porfnnal, and miicd, rights, an 4 credits, to
be ailigned tor the vfe of my creditors.
WILLIAM WUSTHOFF.
: june 30.
Treafiipy Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE 13 HEREBY G-IVEN,
j HPH Vl'prupolal* will be received at the Office of
I JL the Secretary of the 1 veafury until the expi
ration of the 17th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
■ for the use of the United States, iromthe firtt day of
O&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
*799» both days inclusive, at the places and within
the di(lri4 hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara • at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackir.ac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittsburgh ; r.t Le Bcuf ; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville; at Picque Town and
1 Loramie's >tore; at Fort Wayne; at Port Defi
ance ; at any place below Fofr Defiance on the Mi- .
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabaih; at MaflTac; at any
place or places on theeafl fide of the River Missis
sippi above th< mouth of the River Qhio, and up
on theUht.oisßiver ; at any place or places on tbe
east fide of the MilLdippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
j State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at
j Knoxvillc, i'ellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in tbe State of I'enaeffee ; at aRy place or
places on the east fide of the Rivoc Miliiflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of i'cnnef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies (ball be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
ftiall be furniflied at priee* proportioned to thoie t®
the posts be'ort recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the conrta&or.
The rations *0 be supplied to consist of th** fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound ol" bread or floar
One puund of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-"\
ky, one quart of Salt* two quarts f . c , r -
of vinegar, two po&ids of soap, { lunurad
one pound of candles 3 rations
The rations are to be furniflied in such quantities,
as that ther.- fball at all time*during the said term,
be fufficient for the caoivmption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and GfwegOt
for the term of fix mo' ths in advance, and at eacfe
of the other polls, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholefgrae prpvij
fions, if the Came shall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
pence and rift of ifiuing the supplies to the troops
at each post, and that all losses fjsftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troop* of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or deftnoyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a coramiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circuit fiances of the
]ofsand the amount of the articles Cor which com
>enfation (ball be claimed.
Fhe priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnifhed under the proposed contrail, ftiall be
ifToed, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in free have
been cdnfumer!
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
_marc]i_27 L aawtl'Jy
Mills, Portage, &c.
ro BE LEASED FOR A TERM OFTEARSi
r T Obe leafed, for a term not lei's than three,
I uor more than seven years, a V ALU ABLE
PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
Ondndago, and flats of New-York, on the Hanks
of the Seneca-river, twojmiles weft of the Cayuga- *
ferry, and eleven miles east ot Geneva.
This eftabliftment consists of an excellent grift
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
age or carrying place, with 1 etwecn thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improve nent, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required
tor future improvement.
The grift mill is a handsome, new and well fin]
iftied building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 (lories high,
and furniflied with a run of excellent Burr stones,
and another of Efopus' ftoncs, ot the bell quality
—and themoft approved boults, &c calculated to
make all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home consumption : It is acccffible bj
water from every part of the Cayuga lake an J Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from its situation a verycxtenfive and
encreafing cuftbm : The stream on which it flands,
being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fev.reft season of the lalt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, fituateil pn the fame
flrcam, now furnifhed with 'an ample stock of
logs, ef whicha lupply may at all times be pro
cured by land or water, of the best quality 1
The dwelling house is well calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, and fufßciantly laigc : The
barn i. about 40 feet Cquare, and entirely new :
The portage is 3-4thsof a mils in length, along ,
the Seneca-falls —over which were parted in the I
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objetfl is already produ-ftive of a,
handsome income, which niuft be increasing an 4
permanent:
Among the many advantages of
must be numbered the fertility of
country—being the btft improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter-*,
course by land and water, the Geneffoe ftateroa<i
palling through it, as well as all water carnage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Stephen 1
which renders it a most eligible ft and for a Store or
Tavern—The river and lakes abouud ia fifh and
fowl, and the country Vith.deer anJ other game.
Besides the mills already ere<sted at this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
maybe found nccefTary—Fulling mill, baik milj,
tannery, forges, &c. may be ere&«d at a small ex
penc«» —Iron ore may be brought in boats Iromthe
Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the
neighborhood.
The Hock on hand w : llbe fold to ths leflce, and
the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may be fold
or let the premises. .
If a purchase should offer for the whole or an )
undivided part of the premises it will be fold. I
For terms of falc or lease, apply to mr. Wrt»
helmus Mtndkrse, at the Seneca falls, or to ths
fubferiber, at Schene&sdy.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD,
june *5 aawzm
President's Meilages. to Congress
TH )3Eol the sth, ißthand 21ft of Juneiu.l
also of the 3d April, and 4th of May last, maybe
hid at tiw OlEcs of ihe Editor.