of and Philadelphia Tidily Advertiser.
Number 1770.J
For Sale, or Charter.
' L I3E"R 7"},
LAYINGat Vine Street Wharf—
hurthen per register two hundred
tons. This veflel
has been about eighteen months off the (locks, and
lately returned from a voyage to Holland. She is
a prime filler, can be armed with less disadvantage
to her llowage than any vessel in thisport and may
Kcfsaata moderate expence. Apply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenberger's Wharf,
may 5 diw
, JUST- ARMIVSD,
la the brigGayofo, capt. Bingham,from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an excellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty caflts Vinegar x
Also., FOR SALE,
. Jehu HoUingfworth & Co.
No. 21, Little \Valer street, South,
april 20. §
for Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
fcriberi, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflorted
20 bales ef fail canvass, from No. I to 8
j 3 calks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 dez- each
London particular ) Made ; ra wines
India market )
Tfneriffedo. in hogfheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty CUrct bottles
6 eafet of Qmghanis, Dimities, Mufllncta &c.
assorted for the WeftJndia market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands and presses
30 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
tf>Q bundles (heathing paper
A M*AZO N,
Fnr Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in is" Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
""" FOR SALE.
,Ka""7o™}Hava n nah Sugar
300 Hides
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willings and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aftive, Will
iam Williams, matter.
HrrvftK , aiso,
faidßrigforfale,
igSjvV- And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Holltngfiuorth & Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
dominicktterry,
J o ' lll Fleming, Mafler,
partofher cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
Jeffe {3* Robert fValn.
February 26
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the fummcr season or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy C'tuatioß, above the eight mile
stone, on the Germantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with (tabling and con
venience for keeping a carnage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar W. Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on the premises.
HEZEKIAH HWNTSMAN.
may I. 2awjw
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcnnfylva
nia, for such Flan of a Banking House,
accompanied with fevtiops and elevations, as may
be approved'of by the Direftors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned as to admit of its
being made fire proof. It is requested that the
plans may be sent to the Calhier of the Bank, pre
vious tothe firft of June next.
April 19. tuthstlje
For Sale,
BYTH* BUBSCRTEER, NO- 10, CH^SMU -1 STREET)
11 Calks of Carolrna Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a ftor
Cf^lit.
Robert Henderfon. (
april » mw&s4w
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE FOR SALS,
joHogfheads Virginia Tobacco, of Fredericks- '
burg snd Falmouth Infpe&ions.
30 Hogfheada ditto of Richmond infpeilion. ,c
may 8. * eod6t 1
' c
Horses on Sale. '
Several valuable Horses to be Sold, F
Which are' perfectly well broke for either La- ®
dies or Gentlemen ; trills of them are allowed. .
Apply to r. SWANN !'
at bis Riding School Markel-flreet, which is ''
open every day for the purpofeof teaching the '
art of Horlemanlhip, ane the breaking and train- ,
ing of Horses. h
may 4. * U
F R E S H T £ x\ S. «
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, thct he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 7 j North Third
llreet, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, }
YOUNG HYBON,
HYSON-SKIN, r
SOUCHONG h BOHEA >
On moderate t<;rmfi.
Coffee. Chocolate and Loaf Soger. lh,
april 13. ir.&ftf
PH IL AD E LJ> HI A.- MONDAY EVENING, MAT 14, 1798.
HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia, tji May. 1
ExtraA of an aft to alter and amend the Health
Laiys of this Commonwealth, p;fled 4lh April
" 1798. ■
r , Se> tj g. A ND be it further ena&ed by the au
e ** ■ Jr\_ thority aforefaid, That every house.
keeprr within the city of Philadelphia, the town.
IS fbips of the Northern Liberties and Moyamsnfii>g,
S e and diftri.2 of Southwark, within a mil* of the li
ay mitsof the city, taking in boarders arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving any boarder in his or her lamily, who (ball be
taken lick of any disease whatfoeyer, between the
_ firft day of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
ns der lhall come to lodge in his or her house, {hall
within 24 hours next after the knowledge of such
sickness. make report at the Health Office of the
name of such sick person, thetime of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and place of abo le of such houfe
kceper; whereupon the Phyficiu of the Health-
Office (hall forthwith vifu the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, that measures miy be taken to prevent the
spreading of the infefiion j and if any housekeeper
(hall negleil to give informatibn in the manner and
within the time aforefaid, and (hall be thereof con
vi>fled, in any court of criminal jurisdi&ion within
this Commonwealth, upon indictment by verdidt
)- or confeflion, he or (he lhall forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hafpital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, tobe
impufed at the discretion of the court, according to
the circumstances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
iawjm of the Port ol Philadelphia.
Treasury Department,
c • Mar*b 19, 1795.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
» e r ~T H ATpropolals will be received at the Office of
JL the Secretary of the Trtafury until the expi
ration of the i*th day of July next erifuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be requited
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of
Odlober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, hoth days inclusive, at :he places and within
the diftri<3 hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque llle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
_ Loramie's Store ;at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabaffi; at Ma(Tac; at any
place or places on the east fide of the River Miffif
!_ fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said State ; at
•j Knoxvillc, Tellico Block House, and at all other
i- Polls in the State of Tenneflee; at anyplace or
places on the east fide of the River Mississippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of Tennes
see, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies lhall be required for any polls or
- places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
(hall be furniihed at pricesjproportioned to those to
the pods before recited, as may be agreed on be-
TKe rations to to eonfitt th» fol
lowing articles, vii.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill ofrum, brandy or whif-~\
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts f, .
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, (
one pound of candles J ra lons
. The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
as that there (ball at all times during the said term,
E be fufficient for the conlumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
. for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
. of the other posts, for the term of at lead three
months is advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame lhall be required, It is ta be un
der (lood, that the contractor is to be at the ex
pence and rilk of ifTuing the supplies to the troops
■ at each pod, and that all losses fhftained by .the de
predations of an enemy, or by means, of the
. troops of the United States, lhall be paid for at
, the price of the articles captured or dcllroyed, on
th/: depofmons of two or more persons of credita
i ble characters, and the certificate of a commiflion
officer, ascertaining the circutnflances of the
i loss and the amount of the articles far whieh com
pensation (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that n«ne of the supplies which may
be the proposed coeitrafl, fcall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contract now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 27. aawtisjy ,
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
THE Subscribers Commiflioners appointed by
an Aft of Aflembly of this Commonwealth 1
entitled, "An a<3 to enable the Governor of this '
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for <
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
.ofChefnut Hill, to the twelve mile (lone on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county of Berks,"hereby give netice,that books t
are provided as the law diredls, and that we
will proceed to receive fiibfcriptions for the com- .
pany's stock on the 28th, 49th, and 30th days
of May next, at the City Hall, in the eity of
Philadelphia,at theTevern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr, r
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in |
the county of Montgomery, on the fame days, a
from ten e'clock in the morning, until two o' v
clock,P. M. «n each day, when and vrherecer- j,
tain of the Commiflioners will attend to receive t(
fiibfcriptions accordingly. £
april 14th, 1798. n
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun. t l
CASPAR W. HAINES, al
SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOGAN, • H
JOHNFROMBERGER, Si
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fiftfen Dollars to be paid on each
lhare at the time of fubferibing.
a»pril 17— eodtjoM
By John FEnno, N°- 119 Cbejnut Street.
Military Academy.
j, r T~'HE Public are most refpedlfully informed,
-L that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
j. ing to John Mailers, esq. between the German
is. Toivn and Frankfort roads, North Second
i. street continued '
jj, Br JOHN BARBER,
- Late of the 60th Brittfh regirhent of Foot and
:a assistant Engineer te the Army ailing in the
l " Weft-Indies.
,e Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
lC Exetcife and made completely acquainted with
n all the duties of officers, non-commiflioned of-
J (icers and private soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters; the farms of regimental and field re
ic turns, detachments, rollers &c. &c. also the
r _ art of drawing plans, feiflions and geometrical
l t elevations, the elements of tactics, gusnery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
r t the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
f. seen. The situation is extremely well adapted
ie to the undertaking and eight acres of ground ire
:r set apart for the purpose.
id N. I}. Gentlemen from the Country boarded
1- _in thehoufe if required,
n may 10. diw2awim
a
I® Military Colours.
.e At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chcfnut street,
opposite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and ether 01-
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar, to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beaucy of
colouring, neatness and execution, has
not been equalled by George gutter and Co.
FLAGS amfDRUMS
,f Furni(hed with all possible dilpatch, on the most
[. reasonable terms.
r Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
d ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in llile (n»t that
>f superb (tile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
r but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
il till master of hi? prsfelfion.
> Mr. Gbllacex, from a number ps year's expe
; rience in Europe and this country, flatter? himlelf
't that profeflional talents, punctuality; mtl reafon
d able demands, will meet the entire approbatien xif
- those gentlemen who willpleafe to call'at his Paint,
ing Rooms. §6w may 5.
[ NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
e country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and
1 Drums, painted in a maderly manner, will no
e doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind can: ion
1 given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf
r flattering advertisements, but examine the work
r executed by b'oth parties One view will fatif
r fy them where the superiority lies,—save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites sos the contra<2ing talents
r of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
» Military Colours,
- 0N srLK —* y
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
and exactitude of colouring cannot befurpalfed in
this city.
I FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniflied with dispatch, en the xjioft moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
: fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that superb llile
, of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges
1 himfelf from 20 years experience in this city, will
meet the entire approbation of his friends an* the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpecimeri's may be seen at their ]
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Nbw J
Library.
ma y;* d6w ,
- NOTICE.
HAVING obftrved an advertisement of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
feflional abilities, we have to request the public j
not to be imposed upon by foreigti artists j but to a
decide upon the merits'o( each by a comparison ot J
the work executed by both, as it is a made almolt
universally adopted by tkcm to invalidate the ta
lents of eftablifticd artists, witli a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that business which r
their profeflional knowledge iu no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull' ]
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut-
ed by us will convince them of our great fuperio- I
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por- d
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef- 1
fity of judging for themselves. 1
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thj 1
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and 1
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and "
Co. Norris'Court, or Hemrt Frailiy, GcrmaE
town. §6w may 8. n
• B
Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
Has removed to No. 106, Walnut llreet, be- 1
tween Fourth and Fifth flreets.
"ay *• d-w
NewTeaWarehouse, i
No. 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POST-OrriCE. r<
THE Subscriber refpeilfully acquaintsherfriends P. 1
and the public, that she has opened a Store for n
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Bollon and Philadelphia, (asunder) and
which (he is determined to fell o« reasonable terms.
It will be hcrconftant endeavour to give fatisfa<slion
to those who please to/avor her with their cullom. e
Country ll«res will find it tfieir advmntage to deal
wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice assort ~
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit on approved notes. q
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—— Also, Coflee and Loaf ,v.
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton. T
april 12 s&th.6w be
Imported in the ship Phoenix, ? c n .
Richard Grice, mafler, from Amsterdam, pi;
A qnantity of Lintfeed Oil, and f cr
Two cases low priced Linen Checks p|j
Forialebv p 0
George Pennoci.
April 19. eotf
HEAD ACHE.
J "PERSONS affliAed with the Head Ache, pro
, ' A cesdicg frem whatever cause, will find ia
llant relief in the application of
Dr, Church's Anodyne Eflence,
j. Inßheimvic, Nervousand Billious Head Aches,
it has not its equal. It not-onlt alleviates that
tormenting'pain, but removeslt almost indantane
a, oully. The Head Ache drink
' ing, and any local p«ins in any part of the
e body or extremities, are by its application effechi
. ally removed.
CASES OP CUf.E.
.c T» Dr. Church.
ld " Dear Sir,
I have been fubjefl to a very severe Head Aelie
for several years, which sometimes used to affliA
' me to such a violent degree, as to disable me from
31 attending my duty as liraftfman of the Tower,
for several days together. I have had the advice
of several eiviuent Physicians in this city and in
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re
t>e commended to me without effedt. Being one day
fd extremely indisposed with, the Head Ache as usual,
re I sent for you, when you recommended your Ano
dyne Eflence to me, which I applied, aird which
:d removed the pain; as soon as 1 applied it.—l fre
quently repeated the use of it, and am happy to
inform you, I have had no return of it.
- I am, Oear Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN BARNES.
Drawing Rmm, To-wer of London, May 1795.
Ei cm tbc Morning Advcrtiftr, March 26 1795.
' Aaother gentleman in his Majefly's service in
the Tower of London, has been extremely afflidl
ed with the Head Ache for some years, and forae
*• times to so violent a degree, as to prevent him from
to attending the duties of his office ; atone of which
■*j times, hefent for some of Dr. Church's Anodyne
Lffence. which he applied, and which removed the
as pain ioftantaneoufly ; and he is happy in affirming,
that he has had no return of the pain lince.
The above gentleman, whose name and address
,ft may be known at the place ef sale, will tellify the
above, to any candid enquirer.
Chunk's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared
\ lnd fold (only) by the f/iven:t>r and Proprietor,
" . JAM-BS CHVKCfi,
■) M his Medicine Store, No, 1, South Vhitd llreet,
r " Philadelphia.
WHI.SH MAT ALSO BE HAS,
Church's Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by
" any other in the world, for the cure of Coughs,
Alllinias andConfumptions.
1 Also; v his Cardial Reparative Balsam, for Ntr'vous
Diforders, Inward Weakueffes, Debilitated Consti
tutions, and Disorders incident to Young Girls and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eye
Salve, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lotion,
1 for the cure of Freckles, Sunburns, Pimples, and
A all Eruptions of the Face and Skin, Shingles, and
the Prickly Heat ; Palafile Tindure, an immediate
0 cure for that excrutjating pain the Tooth Ache ;
n Scotch Ointment, for the cure of the Itch, in four
f- hoars, with ut a particle of mercury, or any per
k nicious ingredients ; and Antifpafmedic Elixir, for
- the Cure of all kinds of Fits.
I- may 10. law^w
j .
s The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT QE THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for London by the fliip Wijliam
* ,Q f x 7 -Joiiiili, which been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to l>e lptt, viz :
c Edward Giddy, of Thredrca, in Cornwall,
s Great Britain, dated June a, 1797, Certificate
t No. 10,072.
B °nV 1? ' S ' X Cnt ' St ° ck ' the name
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May jp, 1797. No. 15196.
361°. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormiby, in the cojinty of Nor
, folk, ill England, dated July 10, 1797. No
; 10199.
5 20183. 7*. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
1 Of Jatsnet Mathew, of Up; er Seymour street
: I.on don, WidoW, dated Oaober ti», 1797. No
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, *p.
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United Statss,—and all per •
fens concerned sredefired to tak • notice. 1
also—in the same vessel, ]
Fifteen (hares Storkof tHe Bankof United States in 1
theuame of William Manning,of Ormfby. coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates (
for five mares each, dqted January I, 1707. 1
No. 25982, 25983, 25984. i
For the renewal of which,application is meant to I
be made to the said Bank of the United States,— !
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
p . .. .. . . J*. rAUGHAN. -
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares 1
TN the North American Land Company, (landing '
n ° n , t i ° r flld Com P a ny in the name of '
Darnel Lifter, 6f Hackney, in the county of Mid- t
dlefex England via. No. 2151, reprefepting v
13096 to 13105, ten (hares—No. 1150—13066 to f
13075. ten fliares—No. 2149—13056 to 13065, I
ten (hares— No. 2148—1150910 11518, ten lhares i
t? °'ci?' to Ir 4Bo—Amounting to u
lZ ty J b ,r S >™ C so for London by the v
ship Penn, which having been captured, n
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re. ,
newal of which, application will be made to the ,
iSoara ot the said company.
Daniel Neal Li/ler.
*d6w
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE. FIRM OP K
Joseph Davidson Co. -
TS this day dilTolved by mutual consent, all those
J ,lv,n s. daims f»d firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make T
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho- T
nfed to fettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J.MILLER* b '
N B Th.C, JOSEPH DAVIDSON. "i
N. B. The Stores at the corner .f Market and ,
Fourth Streets are now to be let—Enquire of To- d<
ephDavidion. J m
3 P rll ' 6 W&S2TO [ h r
for sale. ~ [° a
QEVERAL very elegant Situation, for Sum- w
Y Ketreats, three and a half miles f,o ra M
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road • th
the lots will be made to full the purchasers. th
rhafe situations are conlidered in point of health ful
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city, ab
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable— A So
plan of the grounds is in the hand- of the flib-
fcriber, who will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 Sou h '
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. bu
,na y 3t»wtf thi
Washington, Commissioners Office,
°" 7lh May, 1798.
I 'HE Commissioners will receive f ropofa Is nn-
I- til the abth of June next, for building in
the pitjr of Washington, one of the Executive
ejj Offices for the United States, of the following
iat external dimensions :—l4B feet in length, and
le- 51 - feet 6 inches in breadth } csllar walls 30
t. inches : firft flory 23 inches ; and second (lory 18
he inches j partition walls averaging 15 inches ; to
u- contain on the ground floor 14 rooms; frmenum
ber on ihe second flory ; and in' the roof i rooms,
with a paflage. The whale external el the build
ing to be of (lock brick ; the iufide walls of hard
burnt brick ; cellars of best foundation (lone, 10
:, e 'he height of the girders ; the outside walls, as for
as they (hew above ground, to the plinth, to he of
ni plain aftlar free-ftone ; soles of windows, fills of
r doorsand (Iring course, of free (lone. Thehoufe
C e t0 be covered with cyprclS (hingles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 30, (inilhed in a plain,
e neat manner, of the bell materials ; fix small
rooms to be gToined.
j] A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, for thein
:h ei^'on °f those who may wi:h to contraA ; alfoj
e . a copy bf said bill, at the office of Clement JBid
to e ' <'* at Philadelphia.
Proposals, sealed up, will be reesived until the
10th June next, on which day, the board will
procted to contrail with filch person, as (hall ap
pear under all tircumflances. to offer the best terms.
Per order of the Commissioners.
THOMAS MUNROE, C/ert. ,
ma y IT. sawtzoje
BRANDT.
ru The Cargo of the Danifli Brig Concord,
:h FROM CETTE, ,
ic Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ttrea
1* wharf.
g, 100 pipes 4th proof •) -
160 da ift do. /Choice brandy
fs < Provence white Wine, in pipe*
ie Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raisins, &c.
d For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS TOR SA LE,
'• 200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, infaefcs
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace.and Cloves, in boxes
( 120 hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rum
is W' ne i > n pipes, hhds. and qr. calks
i- Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
j superior
K a pril 18. diweoti7M
»» IMPORTED,
d In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
e Bourdeaux,
5 AND FOR salb by the subscriber,
r Claret in calks
.. White wine in half calks
r Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and balkets
Lunelle -n
Sauterne ( (
Macarty, and f W ' Bes in Cafet -
Medoc j
j Tbtmas Murgatrtyd,
, No. xi, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
: SfiKf" w '
M«to., ,nd j >n " r «-5, 1r1 " k ,, k
wine in pipes and quarter caiks
j Rota
e Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bufliels L iverpool Salt.
' _ mw&ftf "
- FOR SALE~
. whole or ohe half, of a PLANTATION
a B ° n j the riv " Bllaware ' be 'ween Burlington
and Bordenton.(two miles from the latter) con
taining about 4eo acres ;60 of which are bottom
, meadow, and 100 wood land ; ther; are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exdufive of mea
dow)_but ttdl exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
■ tity of raahure may be had for the upland from the
meadow without injury.
'An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hoglheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling-
We with a barn, stable, granary and other ~e-"flary
"flary bull ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vihon ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the moll elegant fituatians for a house to be
fern on the river. The land is of good quality,
suitable for gracing or agriculture, and con venient
Upmarket by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
- _ eodtf
FOR SALE,
Two three flory Brick Houses
With convenient (tores, wharf, & G . si
M. atcr street, between Mulberrv and Saflafras
btreets, containing in front en Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publx alley adjoin
ing en the north fide, and area very defiralilefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for calh. For further information apply
to the printer. " '
'P'" * n,*wtf
TO RENT,
A good three story House
TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
Kitchen in Front, nearSouth-ftreet. Ennnir*
f the Printer. awil n
api n 20—j 3w j w
Forty Dollars Rew^d
R AWAY - °", the 7th of April, a Negro
IV Man, nam<dffi»/ fra> perhaps he may p a (,
by the name of Glafgnu Lee, er may change I it
name; he 1. about thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un- .
e !. !r , , 5 D u lpm " g bltlc ' n out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe rm
the right fide), hi, left han-i ha, Jn ver, for"
and was so at the time he ran away, by beine burnt
some time past : he is a stout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a f ew years .hi
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Jolhua Lingoe, of this county. It is (uppofej
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
NCfrr t Man in an >' e aol » 'hat the
fubfenber (hall get him again, (hall reee.ye the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
Stats of Maryland, ">
Somerset County, april <O . J may 4 _ 4w
WANTED
A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who under.'lands Heufe work IV O
but of good charailer need apply-Enquire"'a!
th'. «»«• it £ iy a
\VOLUME Xlll.LATEST FROM ENGLAND. Wlth
ALEXANDRIA, May 8.
The Editor of the Columbian Mirror was, 0
at a late hour lad evsning, politely favored j Hyd
with thrccTcparatc files of London papers, j
▼is. the Sun, the Star, and the Times, up to j m(a
the 19th of March, which are bter by three
tim<
days than any accounts heretofore received, j rece
He takes the earliest opportunity of layi: g a Ek ,
portion of their interfiling conteats before
his patrons. • . ' rtiaj
From a sareful perusal of those papers, it uu i
appears, that the French Directory entertain- Oli
ed ftrious apprehenlions as to tbe approach, tor,
ing eleftion, and that the people were very ver
generally diffatisfied with their condt>a. fcn
That there is not the lead probability of the <
French being fuccefiful in'their intended in- s ol
vafioo, as the rage for voluntary contribution cul
had extended it« influence to all claflcs, and '"S
the cruising squadron* of Great-Britain had
been particularly fuccefsful in taking and de
ilrqying some of the convoys colled ng for ha ,
that puipufe. no
The Cabinet Oo'mcil of Great Britain
have been occupied in the examination of pel- M
son's taken up for treasonable pra&ices ; and
every day's experience teaches us, that there
aTe wretches in all coimtriis, CI
" Who, for a graft of ore or paltry office, ha
<< Would fell their country to the foe." M
andagainft. whom every patriotic bosom (hould Ej
burn with indignation.
LONDON, March 15.
To the intelligence which we yesterday re- i n;
cei»ed frdm Plymouth, of the preparations ad
making in France for a fpsedy descent on this wl
country, we have to add the substance of inu
formation brought by a Teaman who bad been
prisoner in France, and who arrived at Fal lc
mouth on Friday last in a cartel. He ftateii
the French force in Brest harbour and Bred g\
water to consist of twenty one or twenty-two
fail of tbe line, about eight of which were
nearly equipped,and •he greatest diligence was
employed in fitting the remainder far fca ; f e
one of these failed on the 6th instant into the ft
otter road, in which lay eleven frigates, a as
corvette, and three arnrrd brigs. The sri- fe
gates were ready for sea. ''
No letters have for these three or four ''J
weeks been received from captain Cotes, out j 0
agent f.r prisoners in France, from-which ir w
is concluded, that his letters are intercepted w
by an order from the direftory. _ V
Private letters from the Hague mention, te
that the Batav an governmrnt dejmuri toac- '
cede to tbe ptopofitiort of the'ex;cutive dir
e&ory, for prohibiting the entry of any mer- ir
chandize tv goods from Great-Britain. Eve- n
j-y person conversant with the trade to Hoi n
land, knows that the Dutch cannot even sub- It
fift without a cpmme.c al intercourse with «
this country. _ t :
The late unfortunate king of Poland is the a
fame monarch whose life was attempted by c
affaffini, and on a circtimftance in whose his
tory the plot of the dramatic entertainmem n
of ZorinJky is founded- .
March 17. n
By the lafi accounts from Sir R. Strachan, ®
who is now blocking up the port of Havre, it £
appears that there are nine frigates and cor-
vettes in that port ready to put to sea.
From Brelt we learn, that there aie twenty
fail of the line in that port, of which 18 are
fuppoled to be fit for (ea, and of those 9 were '
ready to (ail at a moment's warning j of Havre,
it appears that there are nine frigates and cor- J ,
vettes in that port ready to put to sea. There
are.also a very considerable number of gun
boats, but nothing gpes in or comes out- }
since Sir Richard's squadron has remained off
that port.
The Berwick, ot 74 guns, with 10 frigates c
was in the Outer Harbour with fails bent on 1
the 4th of this month, and the whole seemed 1
to be preparing for sea, but wehave not heard
that any of these veilels have yet come out.
Yesterday government ifTued a proclamati- 1
on, offering a reward of zool- to be paid by 1
the Lords of his Majesty's Treasury, tor the ;
apprehension of Robert Thomas Crofsfield, ]
charged on suspicion of being guilty of. high
treason. Crofsfield is the fame person who .
was in custody some time since for having
caused a poisoned dart to be made, which it
was supposed was intended to have been <
thrown at the King when in the Theatre.
We have rcafons to believe that our pre
parations for secret expeditions, which are
now carrying on, create the moil serious ap
prehensions in the French rulers, notwith
standing their pompous and arrogant threats
of invading and subjugating this country.—
We are confident, that the carrying the pro
jected expeditions into prompt execution will
not only tend to rouse the spirit of English
men, but perplex and appal our insolent and
implacable foe.
Admiralty-Office, March 17,
Copy of frletter from Sir John Borlafe War
ren, K. B. to Nepean, Efqr.
Canada, off ljle Dieu, March 8.
SIR," . . •
I take the liberty of acquainting you, that
this morning a convoy of the enemy was dis
covered within Isle Dieu, to whom I immedi
ately gave chace with his majeftv's (hips under
iny orders ; but the breeze dying away, I
made the lignal for the boats of my squadron
to chace, and I have the fatisfaftion to inform
you, that the veflels mentioned in the inclol
ed lift were captured by t?em. A schooner
gun vessel and an armed luggei escaped into
the Fromentine Paflage, over the Ifiand ot
Norroentier. '
Two of the prizes are numbered, and laden
with naval llores for the armament equipping
at Brest, for the intehded expedition against
England ; the reft have wine and brandy for
their cargoes, and were bound from Roche
fort to tie above port.
I have the honor to be, See.
JOHN B. WARREN.
A lift of velTels captured by the squadron un
der the orders of Sir J. B.Warren, Bart.
K. B.
A brig trom Rochefort, bound to Brest.
A brig from ditto to ditto, numbered, and
laden with naval stores, as transports.
A brig/from Rochefort, bound to Brest.
A brig from ditto to ditto.
A brig from ditto to ditto.
A brig from ditto to ditto.
A brig froin'ditto to ditto, laden with wine
and brandy.
A Chaffe Maree, from Rochefort, bound
to Brest.
A Chaffe Maree, from ditto to ditto.
'A Chaffe Maree, from ditto to ditto, ladeh
with wine and brandy.
A Chaffe Maree, from ditto to ditto, laden »th 1
with win# stod brandy, burnt; being ori ihore. had j
(Sinned) JOHN WARREN. cils,
ratif
March i*. ... .„ ot V r
On Satnrdgy morning Mr. Fabiarti and Mr. con!
Hyde, two ot his majelty's messengers, arriv- lier 1
ed in town with dilpatches from the Loid nnit
! Lieutenant of Ireland, which are extremely by t
| intarefting. The mail arrived at the fame dem
i time. The following are the advices we have pro!
I received : ■
Extras frtm tbe Fretmeb's Journal of tit 13 th
"Yesterday at eleven o'clock, one of his
rtiajefty's messengers, attaoded by a civil and p rQ ,
military power, proceeded to the liouCe ot Mr. an( j
Oliver Bond, in Bridge-street, upon aniin-
formation which hail been received by Oo
vernm'ent, that the Provincial Committee ot
the United lriflimep of Leinfter were toaf
lemble there for the purpose of treason. /
" A committee of fourteen delegates were g pa
found fitting, |nd immediately taken #ito S p a
custody ; aud many material pSpers, contain- p re
ing proofs of a serious nature were found up- r j es
on them. Mr. Bond was not in the 100 mot -j
the meeting ; but papers atfe&ing him are finc
said to have been found in his pocket. We con
have not yet received a lift of the delegates t j le
nor any particulars of their examination.
" At the fame time we understand*, Dr.
M'Nevin. was apprehended at his lodgings
near the Four Courts ; and Couiilellor Em
mett in Stephen's green, John Sweetman in yal
Francis flrcet, and Henry Jackfonand Son in the
Church ftieet. Warrants were alio said to
have been issued for apprehending Richard w | (
M'Cormick, Councellor Samson, and Lord t j lv
| Edward Fitzgerald. Lord Ed-ward was miff- c
ed by the person who" had the warrant against
him, tho' lie appeared in many-parts of the t jj e
town —The othsrs are not discovered. nel
" The murder of Mr. Buckley, a gentle- c j e
- man residing in the neighbourhood ot Naas, j > j 0
s adds one more to the horrid afl'affinatjons t[)(
s which disgrace this country.** V 3
The above information is confirmed by f Q[
privite letters, except in the inftanre of Coun- £ j £
1 (ellef Emmet, who has fled ; and so has Counr
iellor Sampson and Lord Edward Fitzgerald. f Q(
S 1 The following extract of a private letter j £(
t gives some further intereftfhg particulars : u
j "We have been in great dismay and con
, fternation during the loli 24 hours. Yefter- co
" day a party of military searched Leinfter houte p
for Lord Edward'Vitiegerald, who had been
> seen walking in the llreets at his ease only a
e (hort time before ; b>it the search was in vain to
1 as he had escaped. While the military were
. feafching Leinfter house, Oliver Bond, and
16 others, were taken up as they were fitting
i.i council, and were conducted under a flrong - 0
guard, As the Lord Chanc»l- 'gj
1 lor was returning from thence to his carriag, g,
r which was in the street, the mob outside
d who were numerous closed round him so as to | 1(
prevent his parting ; on which, one of the.at- j s
1 tendants requested him to step into a fliup till
/ the crowd was dispersed. This he refufed to c(
' do, and putting his hands into his pocke ts,he ■
drew out a pistol from each, and holding them |
in his hands, declared he would shoot the firft 0 |
- man that obftruited his paflage. On this the C(
I mob gave way, and opened to the right and
>. left, leaving him room to pass to his carriage,
h which he did without further obftrnftion. — f
About 5 o'clock his Lordship walked through
the streets alone, (hewing a presence ot mind -
lc and a degree of courage, which has always
y charaCtenfed him. A
s- " Every day brings further accounts of new
ii murders ; and the report has been very gene
-ral here, that St.'Patrick's day was marked 0
for the deftrndtion of the well-affe£ted, and t
of every person immediately connected with j
gcweriiment. The yeomanry corps had charge E
of.thiscity, Wlilfe the regulate wereTirfcarcfe' a
of the conspirators. But fe viral perfoirs have j
escaped, and it is feared that many papers j
which would have thrown a light 011 the con- j
[1 (piracy, have been deltroyed. Those who
are taken up haVe been lodged some at*KK- t
r.' jnainhain gaol, and others at the Custom- j
rp House. ■ ~ v
»I am happy to fay that Sir Man- \
\' t nix, who was reported to be dead, is recover- g
isg, and likely-to do well. -i
"It is said that Lord Edward Fitzgerald ef- -f
escaped by jumping out of a window, and that 1
>n he was seen to take the road to M&nawar ; r
d but it is not thought that he can escape the t
rd kingdom." [
On the receipt of the above advices, a t
:i- Council was l'ummoned at Lord Greville's a
iy Office, which fat four hours-in the evening ; c
lie and yesterday, when the service of the Cha- f
d, pel Royal was over, a Council of the Cabinet 1
rh Ministers was held on th*e affairs of Ireland, i
ho at which the Duke of Portland, Earls ot t
nr Chatham, Spencer, and Weftmoreland, the
it Lord Chancellor, and Mr. Windham attend- <
en ed. The deliberations (which had been pre- 1
vioufly discussed the preceding night at lord
■e- Greiiville's Office,) continued about 20 mi
ire nutes ; after which the-Duke of Portland and I
p. the Lord Chancellor had a conference with i
h. the King till 4 o'clock ; and in the evening, 1
ats Mr. Hyde, the Messenger, was sent back to
- Dublin Cadle, with orders to use all poflible ;
0- expedition. .
/ill The following circumstances relative to the
fh- news from Ireland are sent to us by a corref
md pondent :
The advices are of a very serious and alarm
ing nature, and contain an account of the
ar- dilcovery of a most horrid plot to facrifke
the kingdom to the views of the French Re
public. • '
In consequence of the evidence which had
hat been produced fiom papers found in the pof
iif- feflion of the persons now in custody in this
:di- country, by which were alfi/implicated many
Ider persons id Ireland, Government thought it
I aavifeable to direct
ron Warrants were accordingly iUued, and the
jrm house of Mr. Bond searched, where sixteen
los persons were apprehended, and their papers
mer seized. Edward Fitzgerald was in the
into house at the time, but there being no warrant
[ ot for his apprehension, he could not then be
taken into custody, and thereby escaped.
den The papers fejjied are said to be of a most
ling treasonable nature, no less than to give up
jinft the country to the French. The day fixed
for upon was Saturday last, the antverfary of St.
:he- Patrick, which being kept as a tefhval, it was
imagined that advantage could be taken of
the inebriety of the people j and an attemp
J. was to be made tofeize all the principal offi
cers ot the government. It was expected I
un- that rlie French Would have a force ready to
lart. co-operate with the Irish rebels, and thus
decide the revolution by a coup de main.
(t. Mr. Pyle and Mr. Major arrived 111 town
and yesterday morning from Irtland, with fflrther
difpatclies. Lord Edward Fitzgerald had
not been taken when they left Ireland.
It was last night currently reported, that
the kingdom of Ireland was put under marti
al law.
LONDON, March 13.
>und In the conrfe of July last, the Portuguese
miniffer at Paris, Chevalier d'Aranjo, furcba-
Jed a peace at the rate of fix millions ot Livres
adeti Tournois, which were paid down in hard caffi.
When, afterwards, by the revolution of the
♦ ■
*tli FrttA'idor (4th September) the —
had got rid of the niajoritv ot the two Coan, .
cils, which was in favor of Peace, \i ret
ratify the treaty, on pretence tli.nt the
of Portugal had in.Uiarioi.fly protracted the HC
consummation of tlAr treaty 1 . On t.ie e .
lier d'Aranjo's detiring the btifinefs to be ue
finit.vcly fettled, a new ransom was demandea
Iby the French Government. Surpr.leo at this f.
demand, the Portuguese Min.fterftrortg y re- of
probated this scandalous imposition, butjn- to-i
(lead of an anlwer, he was leAt to the
prison, and the invaiion of Portugal was again feh
determined on. ,
This trait, in addition to many other , tor.
proves both the good faith of the Great Nanon m
and the brilliant condition of its A inc
to the moral feeling? of thtnnriutts Directors, „„
the above circumstance places, in a ncu l'gm fro;
the fides pumca ol the band of revolutionary na!
banditri which governs France.
A gentleman who arrived 011 Saturday from mn
Spain, Hates, that h« had read the Km to
Spain's l'ruclamition lor I
French soldiers to marcli through bis t-errito- at
rles to attack Portugal. ter.
The Triton Kalt Indiaman winch we long
since mentioned to have been capturet an fpr
condemned at the Mauritius, was purchaled at flB
the lile of France, by Mr Macarthy the
American Ctmful at that This fei
man in April last arrived at Calcutta, 111 n 8 „
purchase, which he had named the Commerce ,
when an investigation was instituted as to tne fag
validity'of the condemnation, and concerning atl(
the propriety of its new flag; but afterdili-, an(
rent enquiry, the Government was fashed ln
with the document produced by Mr. Mirtr- f
thy, and pronounced her borta fide American fo J
r The Austrian Government has publiflied
the plan of the new organiiation ol the conti- im
nental dominions ofVenice, by which the an-. th|
cient and regulations are restored, and tn , )a
Nobility and other corporations reinttatea in flo
1 the privileges they enjoyed previous to the in- an
vafion of the French. All the 'nftUutions fr{
r formed by Democracy are annulled. 1 tie . ec : pe
clelialtical authorities, as well as the ancient
tribunals, are r«-eftabliHi€d on their ancien # ne
footing. The Councils in the provinces, cal- c 0
r led the Noble Councils are to nominate to d£
public places, and a special commiflion is to De
" appointed for the purpose of auditing the ac- w(
" counts of the admuiiftration of the ci-devant p( _
e Democratic Govcraaient. r a
1 We understand that Ministers have received
1 positive information that the French have a fr
n force of 150 flat bottomed boats actually .
e equipped. They are chiefly at the port ot o{
'' Havre. c „ cc
S The American convoy, confiding ol about
d forty fail of merchantmen, have failed from
" Spithead under convoy of his majelty s fliips
' St. Alban's and Endyriiion.
- Every day brings us frefh accounts of the
0 horrors of the state of Ireland. AlTaflination
" is fpreadihg with the molt dreadful tury. The
blood runs cold with the atrocities that are
0 committed. There are letters in town which
e give an account of the maflacre of two Magi
]} Urates who had been active in the fuppieuion
of the United Irishmen, and with circtimftan- ■
ces that have spread terror overall the neigh
bourhood of Dublin. No man \vho has diltin
guiftied himfelf by his aftivuty in the coercive «
~ system is now fafe, evenin his bed.
r' s LEXINGTON, (Kentucky) April 11. J
A caution to store keepers and ethers, againfi
w keeping Gun Powder in a carelejs manner. v
On Monday the 19th of March, about 11 e
' d o'clock A.M. two Tittle boys, the one of seven c
the other five years old, went into the store of 1<
th Evan Francis, at Hutchcrait's mills, on Sto- f
! e nerin Bourbon county, wherein was deposited t
h about five hQndred pounds worth ot Merchant
,e dize, and about 731b. ot gun powder ; Mrs. t
rs Francis, with Miss Polly Steward, and Mr. t
Jpfeph Willi% late from Maryland, were in the c
10 store dealing, when the boys came in, they f
1- brought with them fire in order to slash pow- 1
:i- der, (not knowing the dreadful consequence) 1
when they came into the store, Mrs. Francis '
1- saw the fire, bid the poor unfortunate boy to 1
r " go away with the fire, his little brother (land- ;
'ingbyhim; but iTiftead of retiring he put the j
f- -fire on the head of the powder calk, whereon 1
at lay some scattered grains ot powder which im
r; mediately caught ; a hole had been bored on
he the head of the powder cask, it was open,
from which the powder on the inside took fire,
a blew <up the store, and two dwelling houses
:'s adjoining, one belonging to Evan Francis, the
I; other to Stephen Ra(kliff; there were sixteen
a- fouls in the house, the two boys were killed
iet dead, (tripped naked, and burnt as black as
d, negroes. Mrs. Francis it is thought blew
ot through the brorfd fide ps the house.
he The two boys were found«feme distance
d- off, among some saw Steward
e- lay within a few feet of the cask, badly burnt,
rd Joseph Willis was caught by a plank across
ii- his legs, with several house logs on it, gvhich
nd held him faft for half an hour, although every
ith exertion of the fpeftators was used to rescue
ig, him; the goods were on fire round him, with
to his cloaths, till buckets of water were brought
ale a corfiderable "distance to extingui'lh the
flames. The dreadful ftiock with the wonder
the ful explosion of the Powder, has, with the
:f- fire since deprived three others of the unfor
tunate fufferers of their lives,viz. Mrs. Fran
irf- cis, (formerly Todd) Joleph Willis and Mr.
the Francis's daughter, about four years old.
Tee Miss Polly Stewart is recovered, and Stephen
te- Radcliff's daughter nearly. It is very remar
kable that sixteen fouls could be in the house,
lad where partitions,logs, chests, tables,bedfteads
of- and every thing were driven to pieces, and
his yet only eight were wounded. To hearthe
any cries of mothers for their children, brothers
t it and filters for their comrades added to those
wounded was diftrefling beyond ddfeription,
the and ought to-be reniembered by every person
een dealing in that dangerous article gun powder.
iers The above is a true detail of fails given by
the ThomasHutchcraft and Stephen Radcliff, who
■ant were both eye witnelfes to the wonderfulcataf
be trophe. 1
Stoner creek, Hutchcraft mills, \
noft Marchiß, 1798. J
: up - ' ' ' ==■
x s e t d FOR HALE,
was About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
1 GUN POWDER,
mp . '
Containing no lbs. each.
Cted A PP [ y at °- x 3, coiner of Arch and Frpnt ftrects.
yto ma y "•
thus T , ,
ror bale,
own Tivs cases of Scotch Threads,
'ther J J 1 *
Well assorted, and entitled to Drawback.
Apply at No. j, South Water Street.
that mi?I1 :
arti " Fqr Sale,
The cargo of thebrig American from Laguira,
CONMSTINC OF
'"^ e Caraccas Cocoa.
ivres Henry Philips,
call). No. 111, South Fourth Street,
f the april 13 $
April 13
* gia,
.. coNGR E,S S. %.
m , and
HOUSE OF REPiIESENmTIVES. J'
ther
' TUTESDAY MAY !• Ce(T:
Mr. D. Folter reported a bi'.l tor the relief
of Tbrrmas Lewis, which was committed for rf ,
presented to the house c.rtam re-
ZI Z the virtue of our citizens, tomafonal <
frruritv, and their determination to defend our v ; e ,
national rights, freedom and indepeftdenee*
The Speaker a!f« ljudyfo" the houle the me-
tnorul and address of the citizens of Newark,
to the fame eHV<Tt» , . , , m
He alfu printed certain relolutions adopted Tr<
at a public meeting at Alexandria, of a nmilar D f t
'''Mr. Matthews prefefltqd an address from Hfar- ,
ford county, Maryland, like fen-
The above add.-efi*s and refelutintu were-re
ferred, as ufoal, to the committee of the whole lan
on the of the Union. ' hui
The President of the United States» by mel- j n g
sage, informed the house, that he htd proved pg ,
and figneo an ad for the ereSion of a
and placing buoyi and flakes at the places there
in ment ontd ; .a »A to provide an additional
reciment df artillery and tftgineera ; and an aft
foP the relief of the legal representatives of tax
William Carmichael, deceased. at)
On motion of Mr. D. Fofler, thehoufc went dl) 1
into a committee of the whole on the reportof w;]
the committee of claims on the petition of Wil
liam Paribns, w-ho served on hoard the Ranger
sloop of waa, in our war with Great Britain, far
and who states that he was out of this country
from the time of figmrig the preliminaries of f or
peace till after the a& of limitation foreclofed ,j 0 ;
this tlaim. The report was favorable. It wat
. negatived, there being only 18 votes font. The -
committee rose and the house concurred in the
decision.
On mtttion rf the fame gentleman,.the ho«fe tai
went into i committee of the whole on the re- co
port of the fame committee on the petition of o ji
James Peri y, for fevmfclf and parttitrs, who ~ de
proysfor compenTation for certain fupphes laken na
from their iron works at Spotfwood, in New
■ Jersey, in the course of the war, on the ground
of himfelf and partaers having been out of the lai
country liiice the cooclufion ot peace. The re- wl
port of the committee was unfavorable, and was th
! coscurred in, by the committee of the whole, l al
and by the house. f e
Mr. Sprigg called up the report of the com- f
mittee appointed on the fuhje£l of Post offices
! and Poll-roads. It was read, and states that it
\ will be inexpedient to make any alterations in hi
: the law relative to Post offices and Post-roads at m
prffent. fu
' Meflrs Dawfon, Sprigg and W. Claiborne,
each exprefled their disapprobation of this report
" and concurred in blaming thecommittee for hav
ing so long delayed making- a report, and for
j having now reported in this way, though very d
many petitions had been presented for the altera- e<
tion and addition of roads, and as there was a
1 surplus revenue ariling from the Poft-office of j.
50,000 dollars. ,
1} Mr. Thatcher did no» think the committee
were chargeable wjth deliy v for as they conceiv- P
1 ed, from time to time, that there was not fuffi- li
n cieut ground, for making any change in the pre- I;
f sent law, they waited to fee whether any thing g
(hould arise to change that opinion, and when n
i thecommittee had been applied to by the gen
- tleincn who tiaa exprelica their dinppronation ot j.
I. this report, they were repeatedly desired, if
:. they thought the committee ought to report, to _
ie call upon them by way of Tefolution. Mr. T. tl
y said, upwards of 3000 miles of new road had f
been applied for, and from the best information c
:) he could get, not any road of 50 miles in length r
is would pay one half the expence of carrying the
:o mail. Upon an average, he believed, the roads .
1- applied for would not pay 15 per cent »f the ex
le pence. A few (horter roads might pay more a
in than half the expence. He was as desirous as any f
1- gentleman of extending the post-roads as faft t
>n as poflible ; but he thought once in two years, t
11, which had been, the custom heretofore, was of- j
e, ten enough to take «p this fubjeift. 7000 miles
es of new road had been ordered to be made at the
ie last winter leflion, which, he believed, would not 1
:n pay ao ppr cent of the expence j and at he be- 1
:d iieved there were 10,000 miles in the United j
as States which had as good a claim for poft-roadi ]
w as the 3000 applied for. and though there was j
£• at present a surplus revenue (not so great howe
-e ter as had been ftateil) as he was apprehensive j
'd from the conversation he had held with the p»ft
it> maiter general on this fuhjetfl, that the circum- <
>fs stances in which this country might expeift to be J
: h inv> lved would lei Ten the revenue arising from ]
r y the poll-office, he did not think it expedient to |
L| e go into the fubjedl at present. Mr. T. said he
th was totally udeoncerned as to himfelf whether
ht the report was agreed to, or not ; but if it was
he disagreed to, and referred to the fame commit- ]
r - tee, he Ihould not think it right to make any
' le other report on the ful>jeA at present.
ir " Meflrs. Harper, Oallatin and Blount, each
n " exprefied their disapprobation ol the report j and
Ir. Mr. Macon and Mr. T. Claiborne (the other
d- two members of the fcle£l committee) their
en opinion in favor of it.
ir - r #he question on agreeing to the report was
fe, put and negatived 38 to 3 1 .
Mr. Dawlan moved that the fubjedl be re-,
comaiitted—agreed, and a committee of seven
: ' ie mepibers appoioted.
ers Vr. Livingfton,, from the committee appoint
ed to enquire into the expenditure of money in
an ' the Naval Department, informed the house that
that committee had received a number of state
ments from the head of the Department, which
°y he was move to have printei.
0 Mr. Otis thought the printing of 1b large a
volume of papers, which he did not think one
member in tlfty would ever read, would be an
ufclefs expence- Mr. Gallatin advocated the
printing, aflur ng the gentleman from Mall'a
~ chufetts he lhould read every one of them, as
he was desirous of knowing how the money
which had been appropriated for this obje& had
been expended.
The motion was carried.
Mr. Champltn presented a petition from the
sets, inhabitants of Newport, praying that attention
v may be paid to their fortifications, so as to fe
— cure that town agaiitft the attacks of a foreign
enemy. Referred tothe Secretary of War. ,
On metion.of Mr. Harrifon, the house went
into a committee of the whole on the.State of
clc. the Union, for the purpose of taking up the bill
frpm the Senate, for authorising the PreOdent
!.t oflhe United States to b*ild or purchase a num
—' berof small vessels', to be equipped as Gallics or
otherwise ; which being aereed to, the bill was
lira, K one through without debate or amendment.—
The committee refe, and the bill was ordered to
be read a third lime 'o-morrow.
' On motion of Mr. D. Poller, the house took
up the report of the committee of claims or,
t. the petition of Robert Parker, praying for com
-5 pcnlalioa for dry geodf fold to the state of Geor
gia, for the use of the United States. The re
port was unfavorable, and was concurred in.
Mr. Harper, from the coramittea, of ways
and means, rxade a report in purfuanceof a re
solution referred to that committee on tha 6th
ult. diredling them so enquire and report whe
ther any and what additional revenue will6e ne
ceffarv The report was read as follows:
«< That in their opinion it will be jiecefla
rv to raise the sum of two trillions of dol
lars, by a tax fan lands, houses and Haves,
to be apportioned among the ftveral states,
according to the cenftitutional rule, and on
the basis of the late census ; the mode of as
sessment & colledlionto be uni form through
out the United States.
" This opinion they have founded on a
view of the probable amount of the ordinary
expenditure of thi present year, and of reve*
nue from the existing taxes, prefenred by
certain statements fr«m the Secretary of the
Treasury, w(iich, together with the letter
of the committeeto him on that fubjeft. and
his answer, are subjoined to this report
" From these statements, it appears, that
the ordinary expenditure of the present year,
making an allowance of one hundred thou
sand dollars for occasional grants, and one
hundred and thirty thousand for reimbnrf.
ing the unfunded registered debt, and the
payment of did accounts, will amount to fix
millions, nine hundred and twenty fix thou
sand, four hundred and sixty dollars
" And that the revenue from existing
taxes, stating the impost and tonnage duties
at seven millions of dollars and the internal
duties at seven hundred thousand dollars,
will amount to eight millions, eleven thou
sand, eight hundred and ninety-fcven dol
lars.
" The impost and tonnage are stated at
something more than five hundred thousand
dollars below the aftual receipts of last year,
which' were seven million, five hundred and .
forty-nine thousand, fix hundred and forty
nine dollars : an abatement which the Secre
tary has thought it prodent to make on ac
count of the'effe&s Hkelv to be produced. T
Oft that great branchrftlie revetwe by tie
"depredations on our commerce. The inter- . ..
nal revenues are stated higher, by a funi #f
one hundred and twenty fivg thousand dol
lars, thau the adlual receipts of the l»ft year,
which were five hundred and feventv five
thousand, four hundred and ninety one dol
lars—This encreafe, the Secretary suppo
ses, may by expe&ed from animprovedmode
, of colleftiort.
" The stamp duties are stated at two
1 luindred thousand dollars annually ; an efti
t mate which the committee conceive to be
fufficiently moderate.
' " Taking the total amount of revenue ,
1 from all the present branches of it, to be
r eight millions, eleven theufand, eight hun
y dred and ninety seven dollars, as above stat
ed,"and dedufting^,that of ordinary expen-
I ditiire, takenat fix millions nine hundred and
twenty fix thousand four hundred and sixty
dollars, there will be a clear surplus, in the
•t present year, of one million eighty five .thou
- sand, four hundred and thirty seven dol
:- lars, which, if left unappropriated would
S go to the discharge of the public debt, bui
n may be applied towards defraying the ex
b. ..li'n-.. y »nt«i during the pre
sent session. - > j
0 " These expenses- confitt of the following
\ items : Fortifications, three hundred and
d forty thousand dollars, Fabrication, or pur. .
« chafe of arms, cannon and military stores,
nine hundred thousand dollars. Naval arma
'e ment, nine hundred and fifty thousand do!-
' lars.New regiment of artillery, one hundred
re and seventy tw6 thousand, one hundred and
iy forty three dollars : making an aggregate of
II two millions, three hundred and sixty two
s > thousand, one hundred and forty-two dol
« To this it will be proper to add, a lum
0 [ probably not exceeding forty thousand dol
e- lars for quarter-matters', fcnd contingent ex
:d penfes attending the new regiment of artil*
ds lery. And (hould the bill, now before th«
as house, for providing gallies, be agreed to
e " an expeofe of eighty thousand dollars will
be incurred on that account. These two sums
n . added to the former, will raise the aggre
be gate of extraordinary expenses, to two mil
m lions, four hundred and eighty two thou- .
t0 sand, one hundred and forty two dollars,
he m The committee have not taken int®
er view the' expenses which may incurred for
tl)e military defence of the country, either
ay by a provisional army, or detachments of
militia. It is certain, however, that which
ch ever ofthofe modes may be preferred, aeon.
fiderable expense, in cafe of aitual ferviie,
er must be incurred ;it will be for the house to
E ' r decide, how far a provision for this expenle
ras ought now to be comtemplated
" Neither have the committee taken into
■e-_ their estimate. a provision for the deferred
ren debt; the injereft and extinguilhing annuity
on which, amounting to one million, one
nt " hundred and forty fix thousand, three hun
l'Jl dred and fcvtnty dollars, will become paya
ite- ble in the year 18m ;jnorfor the heavy in
ich ftalments on the foreign debt, which wil
become due in the years 1802, 1803, an
e * 1804. But they conceive it is of nfe ta
3ne state, that those instalments, joined to the
interest, which, in this year, are only fix
fla C hundred thousand and forty one dollars, will
as amount, in the year 180J, to one milii.n,
ney nine hundered pnd one thovlfand, ninehun
had dred and thirty one dollars ; —in the year
1803, to two millions, fix hundred and for.
ty one thousand, four hundred and fifty
the three dollars;—and in the year 1804, to two
millions, fifty two thousand, fix hundred
•i gn and twenty three dollars —After which,
, they decline to one million, thirteen thou
rent s an d, two hundred and thirty two dollars,
eof in the year 1807 ; and to two hundred and
. biU fifty four thousand, five hundred and twen
ty dollars, in 1809, when tha debt will be
sor extinguished. Hence it appears, that in
was I the year 1801, the ordinary expense wi
t.— be encreafed one million, one hundred ami
dto forty fix thousand, three hundred and seven
, ty dollars ;in the year 1803, to the amount
too,{ of three millions, seven hundred and eighty
•om k ven thousand, eight Hundred and twenty
feor- three dollars, being the sums payable, wthat year, on the foraigti and deferred debt*,
—which sums it will be necsffary to pro
vide, in those years, above the ameunt of
the pretent ordinary expenditure.
" T* meet the above mentioned extraor
dinary exp-rnfes, amounting to two millions,
four hundred and eighty two thoafand, one £xt
kundred and forty two dollars, Congress has
no present funds, beyond the surplus alrea- {
dy stated, and amounting t« 0114 million,
eighty five thoufarid, .four hundred and thir- don
ty seven dollars, which being deduced from day
the aggregate of extraordinary expenses, j
leaves a balance of one million, three hun
dred and ninety fix thousand, seven hundred
and fire dollars, to be provided by new re- WI
venue. at
" The committee Woiild also observe, that Mr
two inftalmcuts on the debts to the bank of to
the United States, amonnting to four hun
dred thousand dollars, and not continued on
loan, will become due on the 31ft of De- cel
cember, in the'prefent year. It will be f»r on
the house to consider how far provision for
the discharge ef those inftalroents ought now
to be made. Should such provision be con
sidered as neceflary, it will raise the amount P u
to be provided for by new revenue?, to the to
sum ®f one million, fcven hundred and nine- or ,
ty fix thoufartd seven hundred and fire dol- g Q
" This sum, it will be obferve4> fa^ s co^"
fiderably (hort of the proposed tax,—but in di J
the present situation of the country, with to
such probability of increased expenses ; such F|
poffibilhy, not to fay probability, of defal-
cation fn the graateft branch of the present ,
revenue, the impost and tonnage duty ; and »
the certainty of the great augmentation in le
the ordinary expenses, by the deferred debt t J.
and the encreafing instalments of foreign j
debt; the committee do not think it fafe
to contemplate an additional revenue, from '
permanent sources of taxation, to a less a- h
mount than two millions of dollars. nr
On this view of the fubjeS, they submit g[
<o the hoofe the following resolutions
j, ~ That itw-*H be expedient
to wife an additional revenue of
dollart, annujilly, by a dirtii tax. ft
3. " Resolved, That the said tax ought
to be laid, by uniform afleflment, on lands,
houseS and Haves. . r
3. " Resolved, That the apportionment
of the said tax ought to be made among the
several states, according to their refpe&ive •
number of inhabitants, as afcurtained by
the last census." . t
Some pbjeftions being made to this re
port by Mr. Bayard and Mr. Ghamplin, 011 i
the ground of its not having been laid be- \
fare the committee of ways and means finse t
jt was drawn up by the Chairman,(and Mr.
Ha'per declining to withdraw it)it was re
committed to that comisittee. c
Mr. Sewall, from the committee for the 1
protection of commerce and the defence of ]
the country, who were inftrufted to enquire j
and report whether any and what alterations
were neceflary in the Naturalization A£t,
and into the expediency of establishing by
law regulations refpe&ing Aliens arriving
or residing within the United States, repor
ted as follows :
THAT, by force of the aft. intituled, "
An aft to establish an uniform rule of natu
rali«atib», and to repeal the aft heretofore
pasTed on that fubjeet," aliens are admitted
to become citizens of the United States,
when, in tlie opinionof this committee, there
is not fufficient evidence of t,heir attachment
to the laws and welfare of this country, to
entitle them to such privilege : and that, for
this purpose, a longer residence within the
United States, before admission, than the
aft provides, is essential, and ought to re
quired. The committee are also of opinion,
that some precautions against the promiscu
ous reception and residence of aliens, which
' ' may be thought, at all times, advii'able, are
at this time, more apparently tieceffary and
important, especially for the securing or
removal of those vvko may be fufpc&ed of
hostile intentions.
On these fubjedts refpe&ively, the com
mittee beg leave to recommend the follow
ing resolutions :
1. Resolved, That profifion ought to be
made b)y law, to prolong the term of refi
dencewithin the United States, which (hall
be proved by an alien, before he (hall be ad
mitted to become a citizen of United States
•r of any state.
2. Resolved, That provision be made, by
law, for a report "and regiftiy of all aliens
who shall continue residents, or shall hereaf
ter arrive within the United St-ite?, with
suitable descriptions of their places of birth
And citizenlhip, and places of arrival and re
sidence within the United States.
3. Resolved that provision be made, by
law, for the apprehending, securing, or re
moval, as the cafe .may requite, of all aliens
being males, of the age of fourteen years
and upwards, who shall continue to reside,
or shall arrive within the United States, be
ing natives, citizens or fubjefts of any coun
try, the government whereof shall declare
war against the United States, or (hall threa
teri, attempt, or perpetrate any invalion or
predatory incursions upon their territory, '
as soon as may be, after the. President of the
United States shall make proclamation of
such event. Pioviding, in all cases were
such aliens are not chargeable with aftual
koftility, that the period fettled by any
treaty with such hostile nation, or other
reafonablf period, according to the usage
of nations, and the duties of humanity, shall
be allowed for the departure of such aliens,
with all their eflefts, from the territory of
the United States ; and excepting all cases
of such aliens to whom paiTports or licences
of residence may be granted, confidently
with the public fafety.
This teport was referred to the commit
tee of the whole on the state of the Union.
• ' On motian of Mr. S. Smith, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
bill to continue in force part of an a£t there
in mentioned ( relative to the revenue cut
ters) which was agreed to, and ordered to
be read a third time to morrow.
Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, May 9.
LATEST FROM FRiSCEj
Extra# of a letter from Gloucester, da- *
ted May 6th. ~
" This day arrived the schooner Free- j t |, e
dom, captain Joshua Woodbury, 45 and
days from Bourdeaux ; he left the city .5 f
16thof Mijrch,andthe Cordevanthe 2 ift. jH
Two American masters came passengers l
| with him, whose vessels were condemned
at Bavopne, one of them belonged to
Mr. Edward Jones of Boston, the other g a p
to Mr. Scobie. Captain Woodward in
forms me, that o'tir Envoys were not re-
ceived. Preparations \ver£ still going on a
on against England. He likewise fays, had
that all the American seamen were ta
ken out'of the vessels at Bourdeaux, arid pn !
put into jail (except two to each vessel
to take care of them ;) fortunately only j Ffc
one of his crew was imprisoned, and he natl
got him cle?r and pushed off for home. j
" This vessel has brought very large ryU
dispatches for the French Consuls, given 11
to the captain by our faithful consul, Mr. g ? r |,
Fenwick.* " Wellfir? faidMr. F. to
Gapt. W. " So YOUR country is going dea
to make luar against US." Tres ,bien dit, foil
le boh Citpyin Fenivick ! This comes from
the appointment of " Galio-Americano-
Jacobins." Unless these things fhonld
, be ordered better, all will be loft. It is ( , 0
. high time to have in office, only those de
men who are true Americans, who know
our rights and are determined to defend jni
them."
* This is the man, of'-whoiri Citoyen a b
Monroe speaks so highly.
SALEM, (Mass.) May 8.
t Extract of a letter from Mr. Henry Ei
: Phelps, of Gloucester, to the Editor,
: ' dated May 6. m;
' " Capt.Jofhua Woodbury arrived here >
this afternoon, (Sunday) 45 days from
j Bourdeaux. He fays, every American
- vessel is stripped of its men, to two — 1
e their protections taken from them, and
they put in jail, there to remain God
only knows how lohg. Capt. W. faas
e in jail only about 3 hours, and one of.
'f his men 3 days ; on whose release he
e immediately failed. For what purpose
J 8 they are imprisoned is conjectural."
y Advertisement given by Joseph Fenwick v
g Consul of .the United States of A- p
r " merica at BourdSaux, to all the A- 1
4< ' merican merchants, seamen, travel- 1
j. lers, fcwt-other ■cHimhs* at pi-cftm m■. e
re this port. f
■d , 1 ft. They are invited to call at the t
s ' consular office, from yto 11 o'clock in r
the morning, and from 4 to 6 o'clock in . j
to the afternoon, in order to get a protec- r
or tion, officially sealed. s
■ IC 2d. They must present the said pro
teftion to the Bureau, contral, Pojfes de j
, n la Commune where another protection
u- or carle de furete will be delivered to <
ch them from 8 to 1 o'clock in the morn- I
lr ® ing,nnd from 5 to 9 o'clock in the ev- 1
" ening ; which 1 carte dc furete must be '
of afterwards examined, and sealed by the ,
adminiftration. 1
m " 3d. They wiU carefully observe the
w * importance of conforming themselves to J
be the above mentioned documents, from |
:fi- this date to the end of this month of
all Veittofe, n. s. (20th March '98,0.5.)
iC *' as no pdffport can be delivered to them,
teS without such a prote£tiotrj""or carte defu
by rete, and as every individual, either
■us Frenchman or foreigner, foUnd without
as - it, shall be ftopt, by Order of the fame
, administration.
rth
re . Bordeaux, March 5.
by Florence, Feb. 23. —At the moment
rc " the French took poffefiion of the here-
tofore capital of the christian world, the
de, Pope went to reside at Sr. John de La
be- teran, as bishop of the church of Rome,
un " and chief to the tifhops of the Romifti
,^ e church. Fourteen cardinals, as many
or prelates, and four princes, have been ta
ry, ken for hostages, and put in the castle
the of St. Apgelo. Among the former, is
the cardinal Neveu,
Brefcia, Feb. 17.—We have, within
ln y our walls and the eavirons, about 1.5,000
her French, who every day demand of us
a g c from 24 to 30,000 livres tournois.
hall - ■ "■ =■
:ns, A Morning School,
'of From fix to eight o'clock, is .opened at
ales <j"he Nenb Srhsol Rom,
ICCS Buc> of Na. 147, in Chcfnut Screit, for tfce Edu-
Itly cation of Boys and Young Men in (he English and
French Languages, W &c.
mt* , ma T 14. tw J. IVATSRMAN.
n. W. M. Bmnf-E,
rnfe RESPECTFULLY inf< rms the Public, that he
the has removed to
proposes to carry on the business of
" e " A BROKER.
" u He will procure patents, or tranfafl any .other
Ito bufmef.in the Land Office of thil state, fcr a moi't
rate coniirifficn. 1
I. [ may 14 eodjt
%\)e ©a?ctte\' ■
PHILA D'ELPVLIA, balan
or, ag
MONDAY EVENING, Mat 14. her it
. - ; , , only i
The following appointments are made for Ur
the Navy, by the Pielident, with the advice ed inj
and concurrence of the Senate : guide
£ f-Richard Dale, \of Pennsylvania. they
-5 j Stephen Decatur, J crtiKe
'S.S Silas T.iibot, of New-York. •
I Sever, of MalTacliufelts.
John Rulh, of Pennsylvania, Surgeon. tnal
Daniel Carmick, do. 2d Lieut. Marines, quelt
Parker, of.N. York, Surg. Mate, pt-nd.
Captain Dale commands the Ganges, and whicl
Captain Decatur the Hamburg Packet. try u
■' — c caß '
Suicide.—A surgeon belongiri" to one ot
the regiments near the has been
on a visit to this city for foirie.time pan, and
had dispatched his baggage on Friday last.in- they
tending to set out immediately 011 his return of h<
to his ilation, was found dead in lus chamber
pn Saturday morning with his throat cut in t j on .
the molt shocking manner. The, e c s
inquest being called, brought in their veruut r
FF.LO DE S.E.—The name of the unfortu- t" 01
nate man was Watters. o atl ;
of tl
Married, at Greenfield in Coecil county, Ma- Yi
ryland, on the sixth ioflant, Charles William they
Hartley, of York Town, Pennsylvania, F.iq. con Q
tp Miss Elizabeth Ward,' daughter <»f Mr. Pere- wl
grine Ward of the former place. va j u; .
The account which ha9been pviblifhed of the
death of the Dey of Algiers, isdcubllefs un
founded, as a letter from an American gentle
man of the fi'-ft information, dated at Gibraltar
March 113, does not mention such an event.
The English fleet «fT Cadiz, is* now said to J
confiftof thirty fail of the line. If the Spaniards J
('o not come out soon, the Englnh fay they are Vy
determined to go in. "
We hear that the Franklin is arrived at Balti- $
more in forty days from Liverpool. j.
A fleet was on the print of failing from Cadiz
about the 15th March ; but hearing thatlorS St. 4
Vincent had left LiJbop with 12 fail of the line
the design was dropped. J
It was currently reporte<l that our j
Envoys at Paris had been araefted and sent to r
the Temple ; and that all Americans in France
' I'll ad beer, taken up. The Bourdeaux article
: may have given rife to the whole.
The following address was presented to the
1 president of tht United States on Thurf- j
1 day. c
- To the President, Senate and House of Re- ~
1 prefentatives of the United States. -
1 The memorial of the judges, grand jury,
and (heriff of the county of Bucks, in tj- g
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a(-
£ fembled at Newton at the May term of
e the courts of common pleas and quarter
e feflions for the said county,
RefpeSfully fhetueth, .and
That your memorialifti, viewing the cri- e( j
tical situation of »he United States, in res- re p
ptSl to their foreign relations, with emo- ant
tions of the greatest alarm, feel it to be
their indispensable duty, at this unexpected j c
crisis, mod unequivocally.and publicly to ~,
"1 expreTa thefr upon the yrefent tio
ilate of their national affairs ; and conscious
e that these sentiments flow only from the pu
n ! reft and most ardent love of their country,
they trull that this tribute of their patriot
n • ism will not be considered as obtrusive, or
received as unwelcome, by the constituted f' n
authorities of the gover«ment.
j. Whiift fuffering under the grcateft inju- "* u
ries which lawless rapine and the most uttrc- j
strained depredations upon their commerce
n could iriflidl, the government of the United "/•
■0 State's hate endeavored to prefcrve an impar- cdi
1- tial neutrality towards the present bellig*- tha
rent powers, and have evinced the most sin
cere desire of preserving peace with all na- fn,
)e tions : in this trying situation, our citizens a JF>
ie could not but Consider lhe progress and issue
of the late attempt at negociation with the
1C French republic with painful and interesting a ,
attention. Willing, for the fake of peace, our
° to foiego every gratification of resentment,
m though smarting under the most unpreceden- "
of ted outrages ; they could not relinquish the J,
i.) idea, that in a government, which had p,j
n made such warm profeffions of sincere and »
. ' generous attachment to the' United States, V ' l
there yet remained a sense of justice and
er magnanimity which would nof permit the p„
ut administration of that country to turn a to]
ne deaf ear to the complaints of violated friend- ?«■
(hip ; nor could it be supposed that the ou '
friendfhipandthe justice of that governmeat ™
had expired at the fame moment, and were
succeeded by a system of avarice and cor- t,
nt ruption unparalleled in the tyftory of na
,e _ tions.
In this state of anxiety, common to
themselves and their fellow citiiens, your
,a - memorialists have perufed'the inftruaions fe '
ie, of the President to our envoys extraordina- vc
rv at Paris, and thair communications and hi
dispatches on the fubjeft of the negociation
ny
with the French republic ; and they cannot 1 n<
ta " refrain from exprefling, in the most firm
He and decided manner, their full and complete
is convi£lion of the good faith and sincerity j
with which the executive has endeavored to
cultivate peace and harmony with that re- B
lin public, and the spirit of moderation and lib- -
00 erality which has charadlerifed his pursuit ~
us of those obje&s ; and also their warm in- J
dignationat the humiliating treatment which
OU r country has received from a corrupt ad
miniftration.—Whiift our public agents
it have experienced jhe nsoft insulting negle£t,
the sacred ear of our country has been I
'du- wounded with infamous proposals which it
and is degrading to have- heard ; and menaces v
have been offered, which the spirit of A- i
r - merica equally defpiles and defies. Our
tninifters of. peace have been refufed an op
the portunity of exprefling the amicable wi/hes
ehe of their country ; they have been direfted (
to solicit the acceptance ps bribes and tri- '
butes topurchafe from perfidy a promise of
' tl,cr jullice ; the power and kaughtinefs of
° l C j France have been displayed to them, whiift
jt J their country is threatened with the fate of
Venice, and a price is put upon their na- (
tional exigence ;-and the great and enhght- "
cned people of t(Vet*: states have been ca- 1
lumniated as base, degenerate and divided ship
balancing their country's ('ear bought hon- Sch. ;
or. against their wealth ; and regfcrdlefs of S
her independence whiift they are occupied 1
only in the fordid pu'rfuit of gain.
Under the impression of such accumulat-
ed injuries, with a spirit of patriotism to g
guide them which never has forfaken, and Sloop
they trull never will forfake, the virtuous S
citizens of this rising repuhlic s your me- I
morialifts have no hesitation in declaring |
that we are not a divided people ; that on
queftioas which- involve the honor and indc- g Q Q f
pendence of the United States, or measures e <j.
which oppose the happiness of their coun- from
try to the demands of a foreign nation, there orc J
can be no difference of and whist J
they repel with indignation every tnfinua p fea)
tion so derogatory to their national honor, g a j
they pledge themselves, with the assistance f
of heaven, to their children and their coun- Bilbc
try, by every tie which can bind the affec- T!
tion and fidelity of man, to refill with fiim- isarr
ness every invasion of their rights, and to
transmit to their poilerity, sacred and invi- (
olatc, the freedom, honor and independence j
of their country. 1
Your memorialifti therefore deciare, that c
they are ready and willing so support tveiy
conflitutional measure of the government, Arj
which may be necessary to secure these in- Horse
valuable objects. 9 1 ! 1,1
Henry Wynkoop, 1 ' t hc*S
Francis Murray, r Judges. oil on
Matthias Huhbinfon. J Ca
Daniel Thomas, Sheriff. Marc
Samuel Benezet, Fo-cman,
John Hulme,
fefopb Erwin,
rr j) r h? Om
Ijaac JsurJ'jn, w
Theophilus Foulke, n p,
Thomas Long, °3 j
Samuel Brotvn,
Peter Collin, -■
. _ 3 m
Ames Gregg,
Isaac Van Home, => -
William Hart, o* ' At '
Joseph Hart, "•
John M'Elroy, £ TJ
fo/huct IVlolfton, n
JohnPugh, 1 ' C
David Thomas, blcs
Samuel Sellers, o Iroi
Chrijlopher IVirtz,jun. a g<
Richard Lloyd, , c and
George Piper, jf . 1
William Kern, '
John CarliUc,jun.
Jacob Painter, J
ANSWER. At
' To the Judges, Grand jury and Sheriff of the t
County of Bucks, in the commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
' GENTLEMEN,
Your memorial to the President, Senate
and House of Representatives of the Unit
r ed State* ha» been presented to me by your
" representatives in con'grefs, Mr. Sitgreaves {
* and Mr. Chapman. j
e To do justice to this excellent memorial, con
I cauld only repeat it in all its sentiments j°' !
3 and expreflions, with my fulled approba
' tion and fincereft thanks. w
* JOHN ADAMS. ,
Philadelphia, May I Ith, 1798. Frc
> MR. FENNO, Gr J
ir Mr. "jtines yones of New-York, who unfortunately n
fell lafl IVednefday evening, in a dUel, •with Mr. Brock*
bolji Livingfon, was brother to the late t)r, John Jonet 1
of ibis city. and like him deservedly enjoyed the high opinion
entertained of him by his fellow citizens, His death will £ OT
beftncerely regretted by a very numerous society, and hie ton
C country has lojl one of its ivarmrff and trwfl friends. He '
(J refuted for many years in Neiv-Ot leans jwhence he return- 3
j. Ed about eight yearsJt ice to 2Sftiv Tori. anc
2Vo man pffijjed more of the 4< milk of human kindnefs **
than Mr> Jones ; his manners were those of a p erf eft
1 " gentleman: but he also pojftjftd a noble spirit and a high
1- f<tnfe of honor ; and while /'• never voluntarily gave an
18 affront, he would not submit to deftgned injult Tt cannot
ie fuffieienily be regretted that Mr. Livingston, knowings at
he well did, the confitutional irritability of Mr. Jones, an "
' Jbould attempt to ridicule him in a newspaper for attending
g a meeting of the youth of Xfetiv York, who, like those of
pj our own city % were affembledfor the purpfe ff enpr/jftng P UI
their approbation of public measures at this important erifts.
But Mr. L. though one of the ear lief and mofl fortunate 1
speculators in the fnancial arrangements of our~prefent go
vernment, has been one of the moji decided and inveterate op-
IQ p»fers of its adminijlration rbe has been one of the chief
supports of the yacobin faflion in New-York ; asa H ion
s **>bofe malignant influence, though so happily fruflrated in
our public councils, bps secretly fan. exerted out of doors,
and wbofe open support has led to the hostile conduQ of our
1C ptrfdious ally, lobicb we are now so universally preparing
a to guard againfl. Mr. L. will have to reJleSi, that the
puerile gratification of ridiculing the enihufiajlic spirit of H
our youth, and a vain wish to damp the ardour which now
animates every true friend to hit country, has laid the
foundation for measures which have deprived « mojl wor- j
thy npan of life, atd our citizens will hereafter know how
J- to appreciate his merit, and in what rank of /ociety'he
a- ought to he placed. yj
to A HINT. cr
ur The City Commiffiouers are requested to cause fe
the obftiudions in Arch Street; between sixth and te
ns fev«nth, t« be removed, orplaced in a more con- fa
a " venient Ctuation.—For nine monthi past, Carriage, pt
nd have been unable to pals each other, with fufficient to
Q n feenrity, and the'dirt and rubbilh it extremely an- di
nr noying to the neighborhood. fil
rm PRICE S OF ST O C K S.
, te Philadelphia, May 14.
I Six Per Cent.
' Three Per Cant. 9/
1° Deferred 6 Per Cent. 1 zji)
re- B \NK United Statet, 40 per cent.
Ib- Pennsylvania, # *3 per cent.
u ; t North America, 50 per cent.
lnfurante Co. Pennsylvania, per cent.
."1* ■ N. A ditto, per cent.
ich —™-
ad- GAZETTE MARINE LIST. 1
nts PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
■Gt, . ARRIVED, j
ten Brig Pennsylvania, Tatem, Cadiz, 49 days ,
it Triumph, Belding, Windsor, N. S. 25 j
ces Sch. Greyhound, Burdet, St. John's, do. 21 c
'a m Zenith, Henry Baltimore S j
1 Dolphin, Britton, New-York, 5
ur Debby, Mackay ditto
op- Ruby, Macey Nantucket 19
Tie* Philadelphia, Quinton Virginia 8
iled Betsey, Pugh N. Carolina 7
tr : Sloop Maria, King New-York 8
r DiQ>atch, Hall do
' 0 Clarifla, Babcock Stonington 10
Norton N. Bedford 10
lilft Flora, Hamma# Baltimore 10
s of Nelly, Peak- do $
Came up from the Fort,
Brig Sea Nymph, St. Thon":s
Sloop Nrw-Vork &R. Packet, Gona'.vi-s
CLEARED, '
Ship Mary, Miller St. Croix
Sch. Alciope, Rice Jac<juCiflel_
Sufaenah, Smale Hnvanfia
Helena Plumfted, Corry, Portau Priitae
Maria, Ober t Charlefioi
Johanna Tticker, Dayes do
Aurora, Coffin Boston
Sally, Gorham Charleston
Sloop Supply, Wallace L'Anceveau
Sally, Potter, Norfolk
Newforge, Mable New-York -
Captain Tatem from Cadiz informs, that
a few days before he failed a brig belonging
to Boston arrived from Charleston, with a car
go of tobacco and ftaves> name not recollert
ed. March 14, coming out, was boarded
from the Goliah British 74. The fleet under
Lord St. Vincents flill continue the blockade
and had lately received a reinforcement of 10 .
fail of the line from England ; and part of the
French troopa intended to act against Portu
gal had entered the frontiers of Spain. April
27, spoke a (hip out 5 days from Virginia for
Bilboa.
The rtiip South Carolina, Captain Garman,
is arrived at Charleston.
Ne-a>-Tork, May 12.
AURIKED. Days.
Ship Grace, Maitland, Canton, 107
Portland Huffry, Liverpool, 49
Three Fi iends, Gtimef, Amsterdam, 57
Schr, Eliea, Fi'apatrick, Cayenne, *6
Orange, Colmao, Wilmington.
Baltimore, May 11.
Arrived yeflerday, the Bremen brig See f'terd,(Sea
Horse) captain D. Maridel, 8 weeks from Amflerdam.
On the 10th April, in long. 4?, lat. 25, fpoka the ship
Susan, captain B. Huffey, of Nantucket, from the
the S mth sea, bound for Hamburg, ywith 200 ionj of
oil on board.
Captain Mandcl brings papers only to the Bth of
March.
SAI.ES at auction.
On widnesdat n°xt; the 16th inft. at »i •'dock,
will be fold by Auction, on board the Bi'igt.
Pennsylvania, at Walnut street wharf—about
bufhels Cadiz SAET.
. FOOTMAN b" Co. AuSioneers
may 14. at
To be fold at Public Vendue,
At No. ajl, Market ilreet, on Friday, 18th inft.
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,
A VARJITT or
HoufholdandKitchenFurniture,
CONSISTING «f Beds, Bedsteads, Chefus of
Drawers, Sophas, Dining Tables, Card Ta
bles, round ends, Chairs, I ooking Glasses, Hand
Irons, Side Boards, Carpets, patent glass Lamps,
a good roasting Jack, a large Book Cafe with doors
and drawers, &c. &c. Ac.
The above are the property of a family remov
ing to the country, and are all in good order.
EDWARD FOX, Aullioneer.
may 14. dtiß
Will be fold for Calh,
At eight o'clock on the F.veningof MONDAY
f the eleventh day of June next, at the Mar- '
F chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously difpoled of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF «•(
Valuable patented LAND,
r In the county of Glynn, in the slate of Georgia,
and the counties cf Bath and Randolph in the
* state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
, confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
-3 joining the common Jof the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining land* of
Wm.M'lntoft, John Howell, & Ferdinand O'Neal.
15000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400® acres in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jacsb War
-1 rick, Daniel M'Collum and John Dilley, including
_ 3000 acres of priorfurvcyn.
, t 410 CO acres ia Bath county, on the eafl fide of
m Cowpaflure River, and on both fides t>f the wag
// gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
■u ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
f e 40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wjlfon,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
•• 30000 acres in Bath county, on the eafl fide of
jj Cowpaflure River, on the waters of hid river, and
of Calfpafiure River, adjoining lands of Joseph
' Grubb, and incluping jooo acres prior surveys.
t The Georgia lands will be fold in tra&s of on#
u thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
, and tra&s abov» described.
' Persons desirous to examine the title? and drafts
fr of the above mentioned land, will call for that
{ purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 4r,
Arch street; proposals of purchase may be made
tt to either of the fubferibers.
J. FITZIMMONS,
6 . No. —, Chefnut street.
rf B.R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKhR,
Vj No. 9, North Eighth street.
ur miy 14. 1 dts
v ADVERTISEMENT.""'
l 'f XT OT,C . E ,S HEREBY GIVEN, that hyrirtae
°J UN of a'Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
™ at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Mafyiand, on
' :h« firft Friday in June next, part of a trail of
r " Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worceftercoaa
™ ty, and all- the reft of the Real Eflate of Joshua
' Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half cl th? purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
se fers giving bond with security for the fame, on in
id terell, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
d- said Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
>e( produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
int to the Chancellor, within fix months from the aid
,n- day of December last, that being the day o: the
firft lale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTGN, Traftee.
may 14. ' • < iw
GOODS
forwarded to BALTIMORE,
OVER LAND
• Via Elkton, on reasonable term* —by
Levi Hoiringj<worlh Son.
may 14 iod6t
United States, I
Pennsylvania DiftnS. j •"'
IN purfuarce of a writ to me dire<3ed from the
Honorable Richard Peters. Esq. Judge of the
Piftrifl Court of the United States, in and for
a V s the Pennsylvania Diflrifl, will be exposed to puh
-2-5 lie sale at the Merchants* Coffei-Heafe in the City
21 of Philadelphia on Wednesday the l£th May in
e S slant.at 11 o'clock at noor, ,
' Brigantine tailed the
'9 CHARLOT T E,
3 8 With all and Angular her tackle
H 7 apparel and furniture, as they now are—> he faij
k 8 Brigantine having bee» condemned to pay the ma
rincrs wagea &c.
1 to WILLIAM NICHOLS, MarJhaL
i i° Marshall's Office", 7
:10 May 10,1798. j
t N. B. The inventory may be fe«n at mjr office.JUST RECEIVE!),
FROM FOKT-AU-miNCK,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
XOO barrels do.
100 bags do
no hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hoglheads of MoUfles
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS W FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march 11/ $
~ FOR SALE, " ~
BT thl SUBSCRIBSRS, No. ii, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conlijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaee Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
BI«e Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys 'Checks
Mahanagongc* Patoa Hkfs.
Ginghams . Mulmui do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gu-rrahs S'Herfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various 001.
Meek Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
9«,ooo lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and belt colours.
February 8. dtf
Ross & SIMSOA,
HAVE SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cjoths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A ftw bales Baftai, CofTaet, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in b&gs and boxes
aprll 10 §
LANDING,
From on board the Ship SALtr,-from
Calcutta,
AND FBI SALt BV THE SCBSCiIBIR,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
•tarch 3 5
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol--
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the Britilh Packet, Countess of Leieef
ter —viz.
No.:)7os,containings(hares> Iffiied to Henry Ca
-3703 5 do j zenove Nephew&Co
73J I do. iffiied to Edwtrds
and Co.
318? 5 do. ifTued (in lieu of
6jog to 6513) to Samuel and Henry '.Vadtfington.
»918 4 do. issued ko Phyti.El
lice and Inglis.
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to (heiit csufe why new Certificates frould nojjbe
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 eo6w
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALS,
' l' 'HAT well known Eflate, called SHREWS
JL BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwabder, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kerrf county, Maryland—containing a
boUt 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
•f which are in woods. Ths Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
the'm new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , See. See. —The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring filhery. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a short lailfrom Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
theptemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
diiTerent kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.—
The whole will b« fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the pur chafer. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofed of. For farther
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. »aw6w
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to anyplace in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, wherfc boats drawing fix feet water can go
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters dire&ed to the fubfcriUcr at this
place, and put into any pod office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Those who wish to contract in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gidion Hill
Wells, No. J35, Market-street. The fubferiber
is desirous of contracting with some responsible
perfsn in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
him, on commiflion, a quantity of two feet Shiny
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inohes, for exportation.
UAlliam Hill Wells,
Dagfborough, (late of Delaware,
april 18. Baw4w
Grass Lots to let.
THREE contiguous Lots of Ground, contain
ing fomethingmore than an acre, fitu'ted in
Carpenter llreet, between Third and Fourth ftrect,
Southwark; to rent separately or together, for
the year or longer. They are in good order and
generally produced hay for fifteen years pad.—
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling house, a garden,
well of water, and hay (laldes. For further in
formation, enquire at No. 14, North Third street.
April 15. eodlw
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor and diftrefled
prefryterian minilltrs and the poor-and diftrefled
widows and children of prefoyterian miniflers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the r6th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M.in the second prcfr;terian church in the
eitv of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
bulinofs as may then be biought before the
Inard. ASUBFL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawu6m
f TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, »79 s *
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pilrfuance of the ASI of Csngrefs faffed on tlie sixth day of July one thousand fev« hundrer an
Direty-fcven,. entitled "An Ad laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and aper ,
Aft passed on the fifteenth day of December, «ne thousand seven hundred and n»i«y-feveH,,
" An Aift to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the dutiesimfwfed by the A -
tied «• An Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchmeur and Paper", tHat from and a cr■ -
firft day of July enfeing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied ana
ted throughout tiie United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, upon which frill be
written or printed any or either of the instruments 6r writings! olio wing—to wit: C/j | Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - J
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the adraifTion, enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvoeite or Frodlor, in any Court of the
United States, ... - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far is relate* to the payment of the
dotyaforefaid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the ftal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) r 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services ) 1
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or ra
ther testamentary inftruraent, or for any frare or part of a perfoo«) ellate ai
vided by force of any statute of distributions, other than to the Wife, ~"il
drcn or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, » -
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - -5°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
An} Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods inl'ured from one diftriift to another in the United States, 1 5
From the United States to any foreign port Or place, when thp sum for which
Insurance is made lhall not exceed dtfe hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured frail exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Aay Exemplification, of what nature soever, that frail pass 'be feat of any
Court, other than such as i? may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the u(c of the United States or some particular ftste, * S° /
Any Bond, bill Angle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, prominory
note or other cote, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
uferefp«<slivety, - - - - - , "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hmrdred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - " " . "
Pr9-vide<l,\hat if any bend 6or notes frail be payable at or within (ixty days>
such bonds or notes frail be fubjeA to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, ' '% *• . j
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dellai s, 10
If;ibo<4 fiv» hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, , 10
If above one thousand dollars, - - - * 3°
Any Notes iffircd by the banks qow eftlblifred, or that may hereafter be eltab
lifhed within theUmted States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as frail agree to an annual cotnpofition, of one per centum on the anneal di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholder relpedlively* according to
|_ the following scale. -
On all n«*ri not exceeding fifty dollars, fbr each dollar, - - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exeseding five hundred
dollars, - . - * " " 1
On all notes above five hundred' dollars, - a
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - * v - -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid.ptnfioß, or to obtain orlell Wir- 1
rants for Land granted by the United States-as bounty for military fervibes
performed in the late war, - 1 *5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuflomt or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
Far more than two thousand dollars, ,r 3
4ny note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
M fr«m one diftritfl to' another diftriA of the' United States, not being in the
fame State, - so
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 35
Any Inventory ar Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effects, made ih'any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels, dillrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process. by any officet,) jq
Any Certific.attf of a Share in any Insurance Company, of alhire in the Bank ef
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dojlars, - ; ia
If above one hoiKlrett dollars, - • - 1J
If under twenty dollars, at the rate often cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforelaid will be collefted and received by the Supervisors, Infpe&ors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, ia the several DillritSls, Surveys and Divisions of United States, aHd by such other
persons as lhall from te time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftri&a for
that purpose. ,
111.
The Supervifsrs of thefeveralDiftrifis will, prior to the fir ft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Velkim, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates ef duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n>ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained atthe rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, lnfpt,Sor, Officer of Inspection,
or other perfb* appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementionfd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Mareh 10. Secretary of the Trtajury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lifring of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every alfiftanee in tbeir
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BV SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be publilhcd every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed nn four pages quarto. Itvtfll
contain the Prices Current (wholclale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at London, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rat.s of infnranee—the price
of flocks—courfeof exchange, &c. &e. Like wits
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
*—■ with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the paper will beapproptiated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcri6ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
(cribers at a greater distance will have it sent them
agreeable to their directions—to pay two dollars at
the time of lubferibing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
£s° It is from the advice and to gratify the wi(h
of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publishing this Price ©nrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
in the firft two page6 —appropriating the other two
to such matters as r«?y be more immediately do
med ic, and to advertisements.
Subscriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chcfout
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jack' with glafT.a and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness
of Peer Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
jixth ftrect, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR W. HAINES.
Bptil i *mw3w
Frefli Teas. s
juji Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. J4, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hi» Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Rohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflarted; black and colpured Lute
strings and Sattius, Nankeen;, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whalc-bonc flicks.
Ttey have also For Sale,
EU wide Per I ians, CaiWanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and, Umbrellas, Sagai ir boxes,
march g. |
NoV Opening,
At William M'Law s Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afiortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direit from the Manufacturers in London.
' ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Car touch Buxes, Va-
Kcet, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE IN FORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said comrojflioners, far cleanGng the
streets, Sic.
Diflridt No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperinttndanee of Nicholas Hicks.
a ■ From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the nerth fide ef Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be ÜBder the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
w hen pumps are oat of order south of
High-street, please apply ro Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, sr Godfrey Gtb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixey and Dehavcn, in Safiafras
ftrect, between Sixth and Seventh-ftre«s.
(•TREASURY department,
Marth ,30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an a<?l of Coi>gi*cfs paired on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
a terations and amendments have been made to
the att palled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled. "An a& laying duties on stamped vel
" luin, parchment arid paper.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs »r duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of faven and one half
per Centum, willT)e allowed by the_Jupervifors
or Infpeaors refpeaively, to any perfotis other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at pne time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellura, Parchmeut or Paper, upon
whifch the dutift ihatl amount to Tea Dol
lars or upwards.
v ni.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold at
the by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eaeh skin of
Vellum of mediurn size, which may be furnfa
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yetr abo-vementioved.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
' WANTED,
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for whieh
calh will be given at the rate of thirty fevtn cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Calbier of the Bank
of the United State*. § sypril 23.
LANDING,
Frem on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiilie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 eanlfters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO)
A quantity of SAPAty WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
a-pril 17. §_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVi TOR SALS,
AtNo.J, Ddick-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
cups and fancers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pan£em cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
Chill# and Bugiifli umbrellas,
Together with a general affortmcnt cf European
Goods— among which are
Seets thread in boxes
6d> Bd. lod. lid, and 2od. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanifli brown and white
lead.
ERglilh fey the s 42 to jo inches
ALSO,
in barrellsof kiln dryfd Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable fpr
any buiinefs.
4th mo. .yth sff
s alt: pei re.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Ft/her,
No. 13, Arch Street.
march 31 , 4'tawtf
Joseph Ricardo,
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, to James
C. Filher, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands a*e re
queued to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, adting Assignees.
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street.
march 31 4tawtf
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft: Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sevan' Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottsry
and Brokers Office, No/64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the Oity of Washing
ton, No. U.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tiekets may be had in molt of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.-
N. B. The bsfinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcosnting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale us
Lands, Hpufes, &e. &c, will be duly attended to,
t>y WM. BLACKBURN.
November 1?. §
JUST RECEIVED. "
And for sale bjrW.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftrect; ' M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 S<iiith Secend-fireet and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Pom, historic and deforiptive s
By a Lady of Boflon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the furreunding ProfpeA—- Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—FiAion difoarded—Dedication to Walh
ington—The Adlion bpens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfenification of Fortune and Fame
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hiflory of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege ol' Boflon—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure— Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha-,
raaer of the Columbian SoUie's—The Poet's
prophetic Apofcrophe to the Frogrcfs of Free
dom throughout the World. '
march 30.
To be Let,
(And poffefiion given oil the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, a*d 40 l'eet deep, with back buildings
and ftables,at prrfent in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
aptil a. ; , §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 9>5 Cents J
Reflections <on Monroe's View j
OF TUB CONDUCT OF THE BXECVTirZ,
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fisfnature of
SCIPIO,
In which the Commercial Warfare of Prance is traced ,
to (if French Faction in this Country, as its Source, !
and the Motives of Q/tpoftlion, is"c.
Majfuchufetts Di/lricl.
By Order of the Honorable John Loweli
Esquire, Judge of the Diftris Court for '
the Maflachufetts Diftrjtft,
«« M OTICE "hereby given to all perftn.
IN concerned," That a Libel is filed i n said
Court by Christian O Grutzraaqher, late Com
maßder of tho (hip Corona, of and from Ham"
biirgb, and Henry Andrew Heiaa as agents for
the owners of said Sh lp , against .sundry goods
wares and merchandize, saved from said ftjn
Cnrona, wrecked 01. Cape Cod withjn said Dii
trift on, the 16th March last—which goods
wares and merchandize, were consigned to di'
• vera perfonsin Philadelphia, in the Diftridl of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere— and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for the freight said to be
due to the Libellants on said goods, wares and
merchandize, and for neceflary expences paid
by them which hav« arisen upon the fajne—
And that trial will b« had upon the aforefaid
Libel at. a Diftrift Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
tcenth day of June next, at m o'clock, A. m!
SAMUEL BRADFORD, *
n , , . " Marjhal °f MaJfachuftUs"
Dated at Bojlon, April >
23d, 1798. 5 tawtf
1U JtSJL SOLD,.
4°>939 acr€s of Land.
TN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennfvl-
J. vania on the warsr, of Filh and Wheeling
Creeks ana Ten Mile Ran. » s
These ] .ands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound ITI Coal j they were fold ten year* o eo for
five (hillings per arre ; patented early i„ I? gt CJ>
cept 3700 acres, which were patemad in 1791"
part of them were surveyed in I? 8.?. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greencfburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney,, a reasonable credit will be given for the refi
duc - Enquire of the Printer,
april 2i. $
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tbe norther*
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safquehanna
now, or late in the townjhipt of Kamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, 1: oip tk*jt quality and Jituation,
are a very desirable objeft for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will! e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April ir. 5
Valuable Stands for Bufinels7
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Sfeond and Third streets one containing
eighteen •feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
lfme breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8l)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, qg
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built,
htree-ftory
Brick Hoafe and Kitchen,
Almoll new, which has two roomi on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said allpy.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and aa
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may be known on applica
tion to ■ "
tjctfariah poulson, rvu.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library,
march 23.
For Sale,
A Farm and CouNTitr Seat >
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, seventeen miles (rqm Phi
ladetphia—the fai;m contains 195 «c'es ot land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
ihe reft arable land. The houfc and garden which is
large and well paled, stand m the most pieplant situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an island
which isoppofite, and the village of Morris town-
There is a (bad fifhery belonging to the place.—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premifej.
April 16 jawtf
Ba&enridge—tor sale
IT ronfifts of 910 acres, almost all of which it
a jina rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
gsrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dnided
into five farms, (our of which arc bounded on the
East by thcriverPafaiek.
Ther- are on it a number of buildings, forming
afqnare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very copvenientone.audja fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 15Q8 finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits,particularly CherMw-ef-the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTretw, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
Tq favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
Salisbury Estate.
■
THE Subscriber, propdfing to contrafl bis bufi
oefs, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and thi-ee Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones i also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
cd with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built (ot the purpose of catting Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thouland acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatmred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; tor not one ot fcxty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
i(ito 31 pounders, have failtd on provitig. The fiiu
aiionis very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place pi arms lying in the date
of Conne&ictst.and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufctul purpoles. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and havs poflcflion
o'n Or belore the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in themcanwmeforgoinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
ir, good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentavives
in for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, ot
thepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSO-V.
Dee. t. 3a