bit f)t
Nvmm9 ,1677.}
Marshal's Sales.
Unite© Stat«s, 1 -.
Pennsylvania DiJlriS. j <■»
OTICE is hereby gives, that in purCuar.ce of
a writ torn? ire tied, by the Hon. Richard
PeUrs, Esq. Judge of th« Didriil Court of the
United States, in and for the Pennsylvania Dif
tridl, will be exposed to Public Ssle atithe Custom
house, on Monday, the 29th day of January ioft.
Nt 12 — HI ll«,
I box of Sugar
1 bag* of Coffee
1 barrel, ~\
t half barrel, and > of Limes
I tub 3
? jars of Heney
26 Pine Apples
t kegs of Spirits
I keg of Sugar, and
7 barrelsard oqchalf barrel of Sugar
The fame having been libcUed againit, profe
ented and condemned as forfeited, in the said
Court—by
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marihal's Office, 1
17th January. 1798.3 19— dtapht
Cuftom-HouJe fc>ales.
Philadelphia, January 13, *798.
ON MQnday, the tgth of January, 1798, at it
o'clock, will be fold by public auction, at the
Custom-House, in purfuanee of the laws in that cafe
snSdc and provided, the folio;; ing articles of mer
chandise., haying been stared tpore than nine months
and not claimed by the owpers prconligpeet thereof;
■which articles may be viewed during the space of
three days antecedent to the day of sale, between the
ho»jrs of nine and two o'clock. 1
fCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
Mp C One cafe, containing Books and Pamphlets
R P Three caflcs, containing Girth Web
(OU) Ooc calk, containing &oadet and SbtMrrli
W Four calks, containing Gajden Seeds, Peat
P and Bejna
IS One keg of Red Leadj
O WC One crate of Earthen Ware
Two do. do.
WL One do. and two cases containing Images and
ornaments for building
[No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
Bjj P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB One ci(k of Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing pieces of
Music
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphleta
Mr' Au'pley One box of Pamphleta
W A pjp f4 Madeira Wine
One bojt of Pewttr Lamps
B One box contaiaing Brulhes
G. Bolland. Onecafk containing a|cheefe and some
oatmeal
yR Onecrate of Earthen Ware
R. 14. One crate of Earthen Ware.
Jap, 13 sit 39
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public sale,
' at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in
at <5 B'CWtl in the cvGUfllg, tn6 loliowin?
ESTATES.
* two (lory brick Hoafe, with t two
ftsty frame Buildings, on a lot to feet front and
too feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of jp feet fqttare,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interefl has lately been let for aoo dollars per an
num, and <s situated in ChriftiaA-ftrect, between
•Front and Second-streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. 1. A three story brick House, situate at
the nortfteaft corner of Chcfnut greets, being 14
feet on Second-flreet, and 10 ftet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best flands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well limited three story
brick House, 20 feet front and too feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This house is built and finilhed
in the modern ftylt, is in complete repair, with
double cejjar? under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water it) the yard ; and the house is at pre
set t let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Phimb-ftreet, between Second and Third street,
being 10 feet front and 13a feet deep, at present
Occupied by Robert Kenny.
No- 5. A thric story brick House, 00 the hank
fide of Front-ftrejet, No. 171 North, going thro*
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 1®
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, eae quarter calh,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
ard one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, J», 1798. 3awtljF
Philacfelphia &Lancaftef Turn
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the Prejident and Managers,
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per Jhare was
declared for the last half year, which will he by
them retaified, far the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable toa resolution &f the Stock
holders the \%lh June la/l.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia LancafterTurnpikeCom'py.
January Z m&W4W
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
<tory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh trait lane, in the
townthip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from ,
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will .
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon tht»place,for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December I. "dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
ofA.B. N0.5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame 1
having been 1011. JOHN GRAHAM. '•
Richmond, Dec. 1. S6w
For Sale by the Subscribers, ;
Prinze Rice in whole and naif tierces 1
Boutdeaux Brandy \
Tenerifpt Wine <
Molasses
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogshead nf paint t
brif/hes. ;
N. (3* J. Frazer. t
No. Sonth Front Street.
Nov. y. dim-
P HILADELPH 1A . WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 24, 1798.
Marshal' s Sales.
United Stats, •>
I fmafjltmim * \ia, (;Jr
j Prnnfylvanim Difirifl f U'
j l> Y virtue of an orjer from the Diftritft Court
X} of th« United State*, in arid for the Peaufyl
vinia Diftrici, will be exposed to sale at Cli&fK/
Street wharf, onSaturdaytlie i/thinft a' 11 o'clock
at noon, for the benefit of the eunccrnei— viz.
46 Boxes of window glaf*
. <lo. hollow giafs
ay 4 Straws glals tumblon
log PieeeißuffiafteeHng
I£S Pieces ravens duck
J5 Pieces fail cloth
1 Barrel and one keg of copp«r uails
9 Hhds of Beef
3 Bbls. Pork
2 Jack Screws
> 3 X Sails, % fine flays
1 Hhd. Vinegar
2 Drip Hones
a Small and one large water jars
a Guns with carriages
r Old Cable
t Iron lanboon
a Side boards, i table
I Copper boiler
19 Coils of cordage
9 Pipes and i hhd. of {Jin
The lame having been saved from the wreck
of the ihip John. Capt. Fuller, and libelled a
gainst for salvage.
William Nichols, Mcrrjhal.
Marshal's Office, 7
Jan.l 3, 1798. j
On SATURDAY, 27th injl.
At 6 o'clock in the evening, will be Sold by Pub
lic Vxmbue, at the Coff«e-houfe,
An elegant House, No. 78,
IN Walnut-street, which is 45 feet fronts by 17 1
feet deep, with a lot adjoining ao 1-2 feet wide, by
- 1 aft fort inrhai deep ; thisl«t.i» tack of the houfc
occupied by George Willing, Esq. The house 19
completely finifiied in every refpeit. It is 50 feet
deep, has two larg« parlours, the front one 14 feet,
the back 11 by 18 l-» feet ; a handsome drawing
room 24 I-l by 14 feet ; the rooms belew, the
drawing room, and chamber adjoining, have ma
hogany doors, and these rooms, as well as the rooms
above them, have a communication with each oth
er ; the height in the firfi and second ftorics are 12
feet, and those rooms have ilucco cornices and nine
rooms up flairs, besides the garrets, which are di
vided in'o three rooms, a good kitchen, walk and
milk house, fliower and plunging baths, a large
ice house, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet j inch
alley, that leads into Fourth-street. The cellars
are laid with lime and floored with two inch plank
and plaiftered : the yard i» well paved, and the
house is clear of ground rent it is rented for one
year for 400 pounds per annum from the 4th of
November last. Two brick Rattles in Walnut
ftreet, with two coach houses, one of their*
hold two carriages, the other one; the fmaileft lia
ble has room for three, and the largest for four
horses: it is 11 fset front on Walnut-street, by 50
feet 3 inches deep ; they have excellent lofts over
them, and are now rented for 100 pounds per an
num ; the cellar is arched and laid with two
inch Dlank, and.will hiniiL T ~*» P : p e. <it wfne ;
is clear of ground rent; ha» the privilege of an
11 fert afrsy, that lea Js into Fifth-ftreet.
AJfo, a large brick (lore, 3 3 feet front on fourth
flrect, by jo deep, which might at a small expence
be turned into a handsome dwelling house, having
been so contrived in the building: it has a yard 48
feet fix inches deep, by. 24 wide; has a raiu water
pump and oectffaryr, and the cellaret Md with two
inch plank, and is now rented at 150 pounds per
annum ; the rent was paid down for 18 months.
This building is fubjedt to a ground rent of eleven
dollars and three quarter; per annum.
A lot situate on iheeall fide of Fourth-street, 20
feet If oat by 50 feet, it joins on the end of Dr.
Rush's Jot, and has the privilege of a three feet al
ley adjoining, it is fubjeil to a ground rent of fix
dollars per annum.
Purchasers, before the sale, may apply to the
fufcfc'iber, George Meade, or
FOOTMAN & CO. auctioneers.
FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No. 8, Chslniit-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongli which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baltas Sannas
Guzzcnah's Tanda Collies
Quzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufacftures of Patna.
December j. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-Y-rk)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. 25, fauth Third flreet,
An exfenfive and general assortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, affor-
Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted colours
white chapel N-edles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aborted White Edgings
Lille do.no. 130 to 500, Black end colourod Chi
regularly allotted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to I2d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
I Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
' Shirt Moulds and Wires gilt and pWted
Black brulh Feathers " Buttons
And a compleat assortment of Goods, suitable
' to the present and approaching feafijn, at reduced
prices Dec. 6. dtf
notice.
; A I.L perfon-s concerned are hereby notified,
, V- that the fr'bfcriber intends to apply for a re
' newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Aniley,of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
George, which keft this port in June la/lfor Lon
don. But that Ihip having been captured on her
passage and fent-to France, the above Utter and in
clofures have failed in their delliii-jtiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 2632,5, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January tft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Mvcmber 8. 2aw6\V
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY —jANVAt* »9.
Debate tn f'eriign li/ercanrjiiy
'■ IConrinu&iJroni yv&crdsy':.'i*' tettt.l
Mr. obfetTed,.that'ifgentlemen
who thiimowoo had confined the«-
selves (0 the quell ton, and to those coiifiifer
ations on w,kich itfe decVion had ufaally tuTh
ed ; bad they contented themselves with at
tempting to shew that the diplomatic eftabhth
meat was unnccefl'ary in general, or inexpedi
ent at this particular juncture,ie should have
deemed it unnecefiary, and e;ven iinprtff>er,
to add any remarks to .those which he had
yesterday Submitted to the committee : hav
ing then urged those considerations which he
regarded as the most imporlunt in deciding
this quellion. But gentlemen had taken a
wider range. Not content vjrith infilling rhat
the present diplomatic eftablilhment is un
necelfarjr or improper in itfelf, they had
made a formal attempt to fix a legislative cen
. sure 011 the conduft of the executive, and had
added to this a personal attack, of a most il
liberal and unfounded nature, on a gentleman
formerly a member of tke house, but now
holding a diplomatic employment. He said,
unfounded and illiberal, because the faft'al
.ledged against that gentleman, and which
went to charge him with having given a vote
in an important cafe, with a view of protnot
ing his private interest, was not fupportedor
pretended to be supported, .by any kind of
' proof; and because no person of aliberajl or
[•> <ieii«ate mind would
. that magnitude, efpcciaDy agahj ar.
, man, without the most fubfiantial evidence.
For these reasons, Mr. Harper said he (hould
make some additional obferyatiois on what
had fallen from gentlemen in this ft age of the
debate, and chiefly with a view 10 refute,
which he should do in the mo&cudeniable
manner, the accusation so ungeneroufty made
against his former colleague; a refutation
which he was the more inclined to under
take because that gentleman wat three thou
sand miles diftant,and coald notdefend him
felf. But before he vent into tlut refutation,
Mr. Harper said, he would adrert to some
of those things having the appearance of
argument, which had been tdvanced by
gentlemen in favor ofjhe restful-fince he
1 Lire uuitric- —m-RTair theTdle' deciaim>.w
about executive influence, the canger of cor
ruption, and the encreafe of patronage, on
which the changes had now bten rung, and
which had been the constant topic of ha
rasses in all governments cojflituted like
ours from the days of James I. till the present
moment; he considered them a*> unworthy of
answer or regard: Neither now cor heretofore,
were they intended as arguments but were
thrown out merely ad captendum uulgus. They
had hitherto produced nq efeft in this
country, and he was not afrtid «f their pro
ducing any because the deferfption of peo
ple who might be denominated uulgus, was
very inconftderable in number here, and the
gr,odfenfe of the great mass had always ena
bled them properly to appreciate, and of course
wholly to disregard, clamours of this kind.
He should therefore now pass them by, as he
had always done before, without an answer;
but on those few positions which approaclfed
towards argument, he should beltow some
few remarks.
One of these had been advanced by the
gentleman from Pennfylvanii'{Mr. Gallatin)
who had made it the basis of almost all his
other observations. It was this : that our
foht'tcal relations were diftinft from our com.
mental relations; which last were managed
by consuls, not by miniflcts ; and that as
confuts would still be employed although the
ministers (hould be discontinued, our com
mercial interests would not fufifer or be nee
lefied.
But was that gentleman yet to learn, amidst
all the research of which the hqufe so often
heard the boast, was he yet to learn that al
most all our political relations, and the whole
of those which were still the fubjeft of dispute,
grew out of commerce? Wai he yet to
learn that our present dispute with one of the
great European powers, grew wholly out of
commercial relations? Vvas he yes to team
that the dispute which we lately fettled with
another great power, was in a great measure
of a commercial nature? It was a fatf, Mr.
Harper said, which fure.'y mutt be known to
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, that we
now have no differences with any nation, nor
even any interfering intsrefts, which are not
commercial. We had formerly a dispute
about boundary with Great-Britain, and an
other with Spain, but both had been fettled.
All our treaties moreover, except in these
two instances, Were founded on commercial
interefls; and commercial interefls Were the
only points by which we touched other na
tions, were the only sources from whence our
political intercourse with' them tfould flow.
And yet the gentleman from Pennsylvania
had affirmed that our political intercourse,
was diftinft from our commercial relations !
These commercial relations he had fur
ther affirmed, were managed by consuls,
from whence he had attempted to establish
the inference that ministers were unnecefTary. ,
Did the gentleman from belieife 1
thishimfelf, or did he hopp„p make thd com- j
mittee believe it ? Or did the affertiori pn?- ,
ceed from that bold reliance on the igno- (
ranee or carelefsncfa of others, whereof ,
that gentleman had giyen so many proofs ? 1
our consuls, as that gentleman mult wall
know, were circunrfcribed in their sphere :
and their powers. They were confined to j
particular towns, were jn very many in- 1
fiances foreigners, enjoyed no salary, except 1
those to the Barbary powers, and pollefled
no public or diplomatic charadej,' Their
functions, row, no ■ confined; the
c O N G 'R E S S.
»elief of the private wants, and some aflift
ance in the private affairs of marisers and
merchants at the refpeclive places of their
confulatcs. But those great and general
inrerefts of commerce which form the basis
of treaties,, and are among the most iru
'porlanc objefh of national intercourse, and
of the law of nations, are wholly above the
- reach of c*mkri», aixl wholly confined 10 those
• public agents whom we call ministers, and
H'ho alune poffcfs the means, by their cha
radler, by their fittrntiop.'and by their inter
jtourfe vriflt the governments to which they
are sent, of regulating, superintending, and
prefcrving those interefls. Did not the gen
tlenjan £row Pennsylvania knew this ? He
did knov it- and yet he had asserted that
our political >nd commercial relations were
wholly di(lin<>,, that the latter were ma
naged by confjls, and that for the pre
fervajtion of our commercial interefls and
rights, ministers were not neceflary . These
afi'ertions, on the flWhfcft examination, va
nished into air, and Itft nothing to be won
dered at, but the bddnefs wherewith they
were made.
If commercial interefls therefore, Mr.
Harper faidi were the basis of all our poli
tical intetcourfe, was it proper to disconti
nue our ministers ? Wa«> this a time to leave
our commerce to itfelf in the various coun
tries wberp it was snrried on, or even to
weaken onr means of supporting and pro
tecting it ? Was oar situation pow less cri
tical than heretofore, our commerce and our
frights less threatened, or had we less need of
the confidence and good will of other na
tions ? Was it of less importance to us now
that the iuftice of our cause (hould b« well
ttuderflood, the prwreiplca of our conduct
clearly explained, the foundation of our
elaims fully laid open, than when these mi
nisters were appointed. When we were on
the eve, perhaps of a druggie for our na
tional independence, was it a time to cast .
censures on the executive, to weaken its
hands, and to sow diffention in the govern
ment ? When the time, perhaps, was on the
point of arriving, when we must reCft en
croachments or yield up our rights, was
that a moment to diminilh our chance of
having those rights well understood, and ge
nerally acknowledged ? He believed not.
If there were gentlemen who wish to dis
grace this government, to deliver up this
country, bound hand and foot, to forcjon
t-£~j, ■» in. -wcronvw
power, confefs that we have been wrong,
and tread back our steps, if there were
such gentlemen, it would be perfeftly consist
ent in them to vote for a measure the natural
effeft of which was to weaken-the govern
ment, divide the country, and impair our
Handing among foreign nations in a moment
of crisis: but if there were no person? of
thisdefcription, which he'fondly hoped ; if,
as he firmly believed, a large majority of that
house was determined to exert the whole force
of tbs country in defence of its rights sooner
than yield them up ; they, he trutted, would
agree with him in opinion, that we ought
now, above all other times, to (land strong
in the good opinion of foreign powers, that >
cur foreign intercourse was more important
to us now than ever heretofore, and that
found policy forbid its diminution.
And yet, Mr. Harder said, this is the mo
ment, it is in this critical situation of our
affairs, that the patriotism ol gentlemen calls
on them torefufe the appropriations hereto
fore granted for the support of our ministers
abroad ! This is the moment in which ihey
chufe to fay to the world, " the Executive
cannot be trulled ; he has employed ufefefs
ministers, has expended the public money
improperly, and we, no longer able to con
fide in him, will withholu that proviliofi
which the house has repeatedly faudlionecl,
and which it renewed and enlarged no longer
ago than June last f" Whence this changed
conduct! How has the Executive become
less worthy confidence than it was in Jene ?
Is it because he has adopted aeosrfe of mea
fuies less tame and supple towards a foreign
nation, than gentlemen desired ? If this were
the motive, he believed it would neither be
avowed by gentlemen themselves nor borne
by the country; and yet what other could
be afligned ?
Mr. Harper then took notice of the re
marks which had fallen from Mr, Gal.'atin
yesterday, with refpeft. to the' manner in
which the different appropriations for fyreigp
;ntercourfe had been made, and supported his
former statement by a particular refer«nce to
the accounts, and the proceedings of the
house.
Mr. Harper said, he would now advert to
another position advanced by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) and found
ed on a total misrepresentation of what he,
Mr. Harper, had stated when he was firft
upon'this quell ion.,- He: should hardiy have
thought it conceivable that the gentleman 1
from Pennsylvania, after a fentimcnt had j
been uttered in debate by a perfan whom he
wished to oppose, (hould immediately rift
and wholly misrepresent it to suit his own 1
purpafe ; had he not seen so many instances 1
of the boldness wherewith that gentleman re- 1
lied on the inattention or the credulity of 1
the house. That gentleman, on the present <
CKfcafion, had reprefsnted him as having at- 1
tributed theoppofition to executive measures i
in that house, to the anger which gentle- 1
men felt at the disappointment of their hopes !
of obtaining offices : and he had thea gone f
on to infer that the hope of obtaining 033- 1
ces must also influence the conduit of those 1
members who usually supported the raea- t
fures of the Executive; since, if difap- 1
pointment in the pursuit of office could pro- '
dues opposition, it was equally fair to attri- I
bute a contrary conduft in other members to i
the hope of fucceading in this pursuit. But 1
Mr. Harper affirmed that he had said no 1
1 such thing ; that he had never attributed the I
oppofirien to this motive. ■ He had indeed
d said, that the suspicions of gentlemen, and
r their, clamours about Executive influence,
J patronage and corruption, proceeded from
s diffjipoinrment, bur not from difoppotnt
- meat of this kind. Ambitious ftatefracn,
1 Jk- fitid, diil not wish for office, but power,
f they did ne>t wish to hold post* thetnfeives,
: but to <jirc4V.tb i~: who did hold them ; to
1 fee their own fyitem adopted, their own ad
fice followed, and the affairs of the country
cpnduded in the way which they
This was their ajm, and this the leupe and
I end of all their exertions. While men
should continue to think differently on mat
ters of opinion, there would always be a
number of perfous who would disapprove
the manner in which public affairs, or any
other affairs, were condoled. Thel'e per
sons, in governments like our'*, would gra
dually form themselves into a party, and
their opinions would 2ffume the Oiape of a
political fyftein, diffeient from that attyally
adopted. These jtwo systems would be in a
perpetual state of ccnflid, and the fuppor'ers
of thai which might hapf*" ll to he vanquish
ed, would feel mortification and chagrin.
These feelings would become more and more
violent in pre.jurtion as their cefeats were
more frequent, and on quetiions t> which
they annexed greater importance : and hence
■proceeded and always would proceed, those
heart-burnings and jealousies, those little
suspicions, which gave themselves vent in
declamations against rhe pppofite fyflem and
its fupporrers, against Executive injßuence,
against patronage and corruption, and where
by the party which could not rule waa
prompted to fufpeit and arraign the motives
which a&uated the authors of their defeat.
Such were the pa (lions and such the feelings
to which h# attributed the opposition ofgen
tlemen and their little unfounded suspicions:
to a love of power, not to a love of place ;
to disappointment in their attempts to bring
their own fyflem and their own principles
into aftion, not to the purfyic of office. In
some countries indeed, office confered power,
and was therefore fought by ambitious men
as a means of obtaining power. Office
there gave patronage, authority asd in.
fluence, and was therefore eagerly pej
fued. But in this country, he said, the cafe
was different. Offices here gave a fc»nty
maintenance, much labour and no patronage
. jjrjnflaence : and therefore ambitious poli
ticians aUI Tfo
the' place for such men to appear. There,
and there alone they had a conspicuous the
atre for the display of their talents; there,
and there alone could they acquire fame, po
pularity, and political importance; there,
and there alone could they make a strong
impression on the country and the govern
ment, give weight to their own opinions, and
force their own system into aftivity. There
of course tiiey would desire to remain and not
to undertake offices, which, though refpefta
ble, were not brilliant, imposed much labour
but conferred neither splendour nor autho
rity.
It was not, therefore, to the disappoint
ment of gentlemen in the pursuit of those ob
jects, Mr. Harper said, that he attributed
-their conduft, but to the usual operations of
party f;>itit; a fpixit which arose out of
the conliitution of our nature, combined with
the form of eur government; and of which
he did not complain. He not only knew
that it mull exist while men should be made
as they are, but he believed that it ought to
exist. "ft hile eppofite parties in the go\ em
inent struggled fer pre-eminenie, they were
like persons engaged in an exhibition before
the public, wha ate obliged to display ftipe
rior merit and fujer;or excellence in order to
gain the prize. The public is the judge, the
two parties are the combatants, and that par
ty which possesses power must employ it pro
perly, must conduit the government wifely,
in order to ensure public approbation, and
retain their power. In this contention, while
the two patties draw different ways, a middle
course i. produced generally conformable to
public good. Party fp-rit, therefore, and
the contentions to which it gave rife, neither
alarmed nor diTpfeafed him. It might, in
deed, some timet run into excels, and produce
mifchief, as the witid may foffletimey be
conve.-rid tnto a storm, or fire give rife to a
conflagration; but its effefts, like
those of the great elements of nature, he had
no doubt, were beneficial.
There was another topic, Mr. Harper
said, which though, in his mind, whally un
connected with the fubjeft, had been intro
duced into the debate, and much insisted on,
and therefore he did not think it ought pass
without remark. It had been said, he knew
not on what authority, that a resolution had
been formed by the executive to employ, in
official llatior.s, none but those who were
known to approve the political system adopt
ed by the aaminiilration ; and.thishad been re
presented 3sa most alarming and a most repre
hensible determination. For his part, Mr.
Harper said, he knew nothing of the deter
mination made by the Executive on jliig
head ; b'jt he had no hesitation in faying,
that he hoped, and wished to fee this resolu
tion adopted and adhered to. He wished it
even mote than he hoped it j for there had
rot been, in his opinion, fufficiently strong
indications of such a refofution in the con
duftof the Executive hcretofote. He'once
thought that a contrary conduft might be
fafely, and even beneficially purfutd: boc
recent and very strong experience had con
vinced him ot his mitfake. He hoped this
experience had produced the fame effeft cn
the Executive, which had received awful
warning of late, and by pursuing in some in
flames, a contrary course, had brought onit
fctf the most serious and alarming embarrass.
ments. The Executive was no doubt liable
to error, :>nd he believed, haJ erred ; and he
hoped the solemn warning which experience
[VOLVME XIIIha.l guen:', -vould itcc cock ft i
error in lime to cuii*.
Bat what did this supposed detcrnr.ibfcttiMi.
it which gentlemen cxpreCed Such alarm, a
mount to? Simply to this—that the Execu
tive, in conducting ihpfe concerns of the
government wherewith it ijexelofivel* char
ged, and for the management of which it is
fol«Jy refponfiole, should employ furli peiSoni
as subordinate agents, as were known to ajret
v. ith him in opinion aljpnt the right mode
of conducting them. Wai this any thing so
extraordinary ? Was it not praftifed by eve
ry man of common undei (larding in the ma
nagement of his own private affairs ?—Let
mr aik the gentleman, from Virginia, (Mr.
.Nit Was) saul Mr. Harper, whether fife does
not himfrlf conltantly aft upon (bis princi
ple Were he about to employ an overseer,
would lx take one who differed wholly from
kjin in his opinion'! Abo • .or^culuireand the
mar.iye:n;nt of his farm ? Who thought that
tobacco ought tot>e planted in the fall, fcnd
ivh«»».in the Spring ? Or, would be chufe a
perion whose ideas on these Subjects he be
lieved to be correal, and kflew to agree with
those principles about the truth of which he
himfelf had no doubt ? Would he not be
the more cautious in this refpeft, in propor
tion as the farm to be managed w»s more dis
tant from his own residence, and of course
the conduct of the ag»nt less fuhje& to his
fuperintendance and crmtroul ? If he did not
act thus, he would depart moll widely from
his tifijr.l prudence, and might think himfelf
fortunate if he fullained no greater loss than
that cf his crop.
And (hall the President of the United
States, in conducting the affairs of this
Union, nrgleft those pliin and ordinary
maxims o( prudence, which every man ob
feryef in his private affairs ? The executive
is charged witji foreign relations of rf\e coun
try, and with the whole execution ot all its
laws. The greatest differences of opinion
that exiTt arpong us, arise from these rela
tions. The executive has adopted a certain
fyflera as to the manner in which they ought
to be condufted. This system is disliked and
opposed by one Set of .men, while another
.description approves and Supports it. The
whole question is, whether tne subordinate
agents who are to execute this system under
the orders of the President,(hall "be ebofen from
among those who like it, or those who think
it radically wrong, have never omitted
any opportunity of attempting to change it ?
To choose from the latter would be to fay,
that those persons who are most opposed to
a mealure are, for that reason, the bed quali
fied to give it effeft.
A gentleman from Georgia, Mr. Harper
said, has talked much of the executive hav
*ing a party, a party in legation : and has
asked what theu becomes of our government
of departments, and whether the executive
could refufe to execute a law becanfe he did
it a good onj? T»' y 1
gentleman who fpokeofapar
-Ity in legislation, or doubted about the ob
ligation of the executive to execute a law
whether approved by it or not. Does not
that gtntlcmen know that there are execu
tive functions distinct from legislative functi
ons, and that the Preiident is charged with
the former, as well as the legislature with
the letter ? It is not perhaps, surprising,
considering the degree of animation, not to
fay pafiion, to which the gentleman had
worked himfelf up, that he should overlook
a difttnClion so obvious as that between le
gislative and executive functions ; but will
Jie not now acknowledge that the President
being solely charged with one, is solely ref
poßfible for it to the house, the country a;id
his conscience, while the legislature is solely
rtfponfible for the other. And, in conduct
ing those affairs, for which he is solely res
ponsible, must not the President have a sys
tem ? Or would the gentleman from Geor
gia wish the executive department to be con
ducted without system ? If he must have a
system from whence is he to derive it ; from
his own judgment or from the dire&ion of
others? Surely from the former source.
Will not differences of opinion exill respeCt
ing this system, which»fome will approve,
while it is conSidered as most improper by
others ? No doubt this will be the cafe.—
From which class then, must the President
take his agents, in the execution of this sys
tem, those confidential agents with whom he
is to advise, by whose eyes he must often fee,
with whole hands he must often work, and
to whose fidelity and discretion he must of
ten trust in remote Situations, beyond his
immediate fuperintendance and conlroul i
Shall he take them from the approvers or
oppoferi of the system ? When he has a thing
to be done shall he employ those to do it
who think it riglii and beneficial, or those
who think it wrong and mifc' ievous ? Shall
he expose himfelf to the danger of having
his orders disobeyed or ncgleCted by an a
gent, who though charged with their exe
cution, may choose to set up his own wiS
doin above that of his employers, and to
dispense with that which they have consider
ed as iodifpenfable ? Shall he expose himfelf
to the danger of having his plans, however
necessary.in his own judgment, counteracted
by an ignorant or presumptuous agent, who
thinks them hurtful, and chooses to aCt ac
cording to his own opinions indeed of his
iuftruCtions ? Should he thus act and thus
expose himfelf and the great interests wher«-
with he is charged, he would cease to de
serve either the tefpeft of individuals, or the
confidence of the country.
But it may be allcdged, continued Mr.
Harper, that the integrity of an ageut will
be a Sufficient security for his'afting accor
ding to his instruCtions, though contrary to
his own private opinions. It may fomttimes
be so, but the risk is great, and recent ex
perience does not authorise the experiment.
Even were -it otherwise, still when you ear
ploy a person tp execute meafure6 which be
does not approve, you take away one of the
btft and ftrongtft securities for his due per
formance : you deprive yourfelf of his zeal
of his heart, of his enthusiasm which arc
not only the furefl guards of fidelity, but
the most powerful means of success..
If the executive therefore, has a system
in the conduft of those affaiis wherewith it
!» :b«rgfd, and to fay fhat it has not, is to
charge it with ibi.y, »{ must cither be dis
honest, or conceive that fyrtcm to be pro
per : i:id conceiving it to be proper it is us
duty to use the moil eife*tu3l means for car
ryitig it into effect, One of the most eft- |
cAcious of these means ij, to make use ot
men, who otherwise qualified, believe the
system to be right. Such men consequent
ly, and such alone, ought to be employed:
and hence it follows, that for the executive
to negleft that, the determination to do
which gentlemen charge agaiait it as an im
propriety, and even a crime, would be at
btft an a£t of folly, if not the breach of a
sacred obligation.
Mr. Harper then proceeded to remark
on what had been advanced yesterday by
the gentleman from Pennfylvacia (Mr. Gal
latin) rel'peCting the minister at Lisbon.
That gentleman, said he, has charged,l»y
former colleague with having voted for an
appropriation for a new office, in order to
make room for his own appointment to a
vacancy thus ereated. He says» that my
late colleague, when the eiiniffyx at Lisbon
was to be Sent to Berlin, came Ato the house
not indeed with a commilfioi in his pocket,
but certainly <with a knenilt&c that he him
felf was to fill the vacant place at Lisbon,
and voted for the Berlin ippropriation, Did
the gentleman advert t» the extent of this
charge ? I am wiljin? to hope that, he did
not; for then he wand not have advanced
it, especially in so nofitive a manner, with
out some fort of proof. No such proof
could have been prodi/ced. I take upon
myfelf to declare that none such exists. By
recurring to the journals of the senate, it
will appear, that the nomination of a min
ister to Lisbon was made on the 6th of Ju
ly. I have authority for faying, that the
firft intimation which my late colleague re
ceived of his intended nomination, was the
day before the nomination took place; that
is on the sth, two days after that appropri
ation was made, for which he is charged
with having voted in order to make room
for himfelf. When he gave this vote, he
might have expeCted the appointment j
but he had 110 more right to expeCt it than
any other man. He did not know that he
would be appointed, nor was he applied to
on the subjeCt till after tfie Berlin appro
priation had been voted. It would have
been highly improper to apply to him be
fore, and it is very improbable, in itfelf,
that the application was made until after
the appropriation for Berlin, for although
the President had resolved to fend the mini
nifter from Lisbon to Berlin, he could not
execute this intention without a vote of
j money, and to apply to a gentleman to ac
cept the vacancy before that vote took place
[ and, of course, before it was certain that
There Vx/uM-ir. „ tioata
have been very strange condnft. ..
This much I have thought it necessary to
slate, said Mr. Harper, and I will add one
observation addressed to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania. It is this, that he ought to
take warning from this occasion not to make
it neeefiary in Suture to deSend perSons in
their abfcnce against attacks, which being
wholly unfounded, candour no leSs than-de
licacy and generous fentimeuts, oujjht to
have prevented.
As to the general policy of the Jirefent
motion as eonneCted with the foreigH relati
ons of this country, Mr. Harper said, that
he wcild add two or three remarks on that
fubjeft, and then conclude.
The motion went, he said, to reduce the
appointments and falaiies of three ministers:
those to Madrid, Lisbon, and Berlin ; and in
Support of the motion, it was alledged that
thelaftof these ministers was entirely unne
ceflary, 3nd that the other two had been im
properly, because unnecessarily, raised from
mit.iftera refidentto mitiifters plenipotentiary.
To him it was a fufficient answer to these
allegations ta fay, that the President had
thought otherwise: because the President
being charged by the constitution with the
foreign relations of the country, must be in
verted with the means necessary Sor conduct
ing them with effeft ; and was infinitely bet
ter qualified by his Situation, to judge what
those means were, and how they ought to
be used, than the house could pretend to be.
One of these means was the appointment of
foreign ministers, which was expressly veiled
in the President by conftitution. When
the President, therefore, had thoijght fit to
appoint foreign ministers, Or to alter their
grades, he had exercised a constitutional
power, and it did not lie with the boiife of
rcprefentativts to objeCt or judge. To him,
therefore, Mr. Harper laid, it was a fuffici
ent answer to all tkofe objeftions, to Say,
that the President had thought otherwise.
To others, who might hold different opini
ons Srpm him on this SubjeCt, he thought it
was a Sufficient answer to be told that the
house of representatives, as well as the Pre
sident had thought differently, and had sanc
tioned the changes which hp had thsught
proper to make in this rffpefi, by voting
money to carry them into effect. This the
had done expressly in all the three cases
aontemplated by the present motion. The
ministers to Madrid and Lisbon had been
raised from residents to plenipotentiaries in
May 1796, at which time, and also in
March 1797, the house had voted an addi
tional Sum made necessary by theSe changes
arid had hereby Sanctioned the changesthem-
Selves. The embassy to Berlin was resolved
on ja June 1797, and the houSe then sanc
tioned the measure by giving the requisite
appropriation. Surely it might have been
expected that the strongest advocates for le
gislative contr»ul and legislative sanCtion,
would be Satisfied by this repeated approba- |
tion cf the house: but no, gentlemen were j
not to be fa falisfied. They still contended
that it was proper to enquire into the use !
and the reason of thefs changes, and de- '
manded why they had been made, what cir-'
cumilances rendered them neceflary, and
what good they had produced? Though '
be protested againll the right of the house to
make these enquiries, mere especially at
this time, after the mcafures had been so for
mally and so repeatedly fauftioiud, he r.pv
crtheleffi had 110 obje&ion to inform gentle- j
n;t! what in his opinion had beta the occa- |
fion, and the benefits of two of these ap- \
point ments, those. to- Madrid, and Lilbon. 1
As to the embafly to Berlin, the reasons and
advantages of it had beeci so fully explained
in the fnmmer session, that nothing seemed
neeeffary to be added to tfie remarks made
by fame other gentlemen on that ftibjeft in
the course of the present debate.
It cauid 1:0?, he laid be forgotten by gintle-,
men tka«4n iht begianing of 1796, or a little
pnviaiiato that (teiigd, we fettled very mueh
to our otvu f»ti»faefi#n, a long (finding and
dilagreeable with the government of
- Spain. The treaty whereby this fcitlemcnt was
placed the two nations o.i a f'oo-ing of
aniity, and facir#d to (is objeits of very great
extertfi?e iVd intereiliHg part
of the tfnjon. The final attainment, hewtver,
of these objefts and the due ex«cu;ioa of the
r. clry, fcuif? very mueh on thi Cootinu
ance of a good between the two
governrrieiTTj. Spain, after-keeping only com
j miffioners, and charges dei affaires liere for a
I coofider4ble time,bad lent us a minister plenipo
tentiary, and iii the intercourse between govern
ments it was usual and an expefled civility
to return a minister of the fame grade that was
received. This compliment Spain expefted,
and however ihconfiderable theft matters may
appear to us, we know that great importance
is annexed 10 them by courts We must deal
with people 29 we find them, and where we have
ah mtereft to cultivate theijr good wilf, weMmufi
conform to their prejudices andtafhions, instead
of ridiculing ar disregarding them. As Spain
had made an advance by fending us a minister
plenipotentiary, and expeffced a return of the
compliment, would it have been wife for the
paltry Sum of 4,500 dollars, the difference be
tween the two appointments, rodifippoint and
disgust.a power which we had so great an in
terefl to conciliate ? He b»Uved not: the Presi
dent had thought not ; the house on two 01-
three formeroccafi .ns had thought not ; and he
hoped that tihe fame opinion would now influ
ence its dechion.
As to Portugal, the reasons in favor of the
the change Sad been equajly llrgng. We had firtl
a minister resident at that court; it had sent us a
mmiflef of* thr fame grade who was after wards
changed into a minlftcf plenipotentiary, and had
been received by o.ur government. Portugal not
only bad a rithi to expefi, according to the cere
monial efiibliflied among nations, that we should
fend her a Binifler of the fame grade, but (he. did
expeA it, »jd even made a request to that effect.
Had w« tocultivate with Portugal,that we
ought to havt disappointed her in this refpeft, and
run the rifl! of dif»ußing this friendly power ?
Our direct commerce indeed was not very great
with her, kut a very important and interfiling
branch of oui trade, was likely "to be deeply as.
feded by her measures. She was the power which
yras ufualljr X war with the Al<erine«, and had
frequently kipt them blocked up in the Streights;
whereby allSur commerce to that quarter of the
world, —a the security of which we
had facrificed nearly one million and an half of
dollars, was rendered fafe from their depredations.
Was it a fmtll objedl then, to be on good terms
with a powei which held so effedtual a check over
rhyf-- .K
ltandirtg to beendangered by withholding an accul
tomed mark oi respect, which she expeiSed, and
of which she lad fetthe example ? And for what
obje£ do gentfemcc contend, that this risk ought
to have bfen ncurred—this good underflanding en
dangered ? F<f 450G dollars. Was this the wif
domes legifljtors, or was it the foolith veffatile
sanJu>S «f anjry and.petulant children ?
Upon the whole", Tie said, eonfidering thelength
of time this efablifhment had continued ; the fc
lemnity with vhich it had been so repeatedly sanc
tioned by Congress-—the critical nature of our pre
sent situation—the importance of preserving all our
means of gaol understanding with friendly pow
ers—Uac ver/itiie.conduifl'whieh would arise
the present motLf), to do away fo
lately approved by this very Congress; and the'
mischievous tendency of fixing that cenfare on the
Executive, in theptefent crisis, which was the i.-
reft tendency, anj even the avowed objeA of the
prefentmotionhe rould not for a moment sup
pose that it woo Id be adopted by the house.
Mr. Livingston said, had he not seconded
the motion of the gentleman from Virginia, he
k«ew not that he fhouldhavc troubled the com
mittee with his sentiments on this occafioa. He
thought the reafsns whieh had been adduced by
the gCDtleman from Virginia, for the adoption
of his motion, were He had dated,
that in all governments, where the executive and
legiftative powers were placed in different bo
dies, there was a confiant tendency to an in
crease •fexeoutivepitronage, by means of the
power to appoint to office. He did not expedt
that so plain a pofitiou would have been at
tempted to be controverted. Not that the gen
tleman wilhed to get rid of this patronage, or
.that the-power fhculd be placed any where clfe,
but merely to prevent its increasing, and becom
ing mischievous. He ffated, from proof which
had produced cotiviflien on his own mind, that
there was a determination in the executive of
this couufry to increase that patronage, by con
fining its appointment to office to men of a cer
tain political opinion. He was sorry to hear
his friend,ipake thi» declaration, because, how
eTer wcfTne might himlelf have been convinc
ed ofthe fai3, he was apprehensive the fame
coaviflion could not be produced on the mind*'
of other gentlemen—he coofefied it did not pro
duce conviflion on his mind. But what had
been heard from gertlemap in ippofition to this
motion ? The tlailrilie had been avowed. The
people of the United States had lived to hear,
that it was right in the executive to ptomole
none to office, but of its cwn party. Or, if not
party, clothe the th!iig in what words gentle
men pleafcd, it came \p the fame meauing.—
This was at gcc? declaring, that the executive
of the United States lud a parly, and that there
was a party iu opposition to the executive, who
were not deferv.ng of the favour of governmeat.
Mr. L. wilhed to examine this dodrine— 1u
VVas it contended that ii was becoming in gov
ernment to detnm.ne thit men of a particular
opinion only Ihonld receive the rewards which
11 had to bestow ? For he denied that tbel'e offi
ces were matters of paltry confideratiou. With ■
refyeifl {o salary, he acknowledged the object
was not great; but inasmuch as these offices
were proofs of public confidence, they, were
high rewards. If this doctrine were to be ad
mitted, belo e the president could appoint any
person to office, he must hold an inquisition up
on his political opinion, and require proofs of
his having always ailed in a certain way. If
this -vere 10 lie done, the preudent of the United
States would fii&Aoin the exalted (ittfjiion of
the hew! of it freepeoplc, to the miserable lead-
I er of a party.
This was one effcifi; hut there were others
It vas supposed, in hit leiciTtioii-for office, the
f prtfident would leek fqr virtue and talents. But,
iirthe dodtrinf of were to prevail, if
men of this defcriptibn were not to be found rf
a certain opinion, men must be chof. n devoid
of talents and of virtue.
I Mr. L. would not believe, therefore,
lhntjiojr gentlemen had avowed it to be the
rase, that the executive had come to arty such
determination. He believed that
men thm.ght it would bs right for him to ds so ;
-■hiirksf iotjM sat btlieve tlfat fiient of
thcTJ.i.ifi States joined them in opinion. Nay,
lie had h.s awn declaration that hr did not ;
lor, in tiie ai'drefs which hi delivered on h * in
ab^njTMtion, which m»ght b® considered as his
pM'niia' creed, he expressly declared, that in
rppntrtrnerts to office he would feck for virtu
ous men of all parties. not ? Wat
.virtu? confined to men of a certain politic:'.! or
religious opinion? He trusted not : anj what
ever might be the private opinion of any perfoa
appointed to office, if he countera&ed the in
ftru&ions which wre i*iven to hiin, he stepped
beyond tiie limits of his d lty ; he outstepped the
laws—and thank God (exclaimed he) we have
laws, that will punilh offences, whether they a
rise from ambition, corruption, or any other
source.
But, as he had"alteady la d, he did not believe
this, for another, and a vr v serious consequence
might arise from it. Let us imagine it possible,
f»«d-he-, { and pray G>d the imagination may
never he realized!) that, at some fyt'ire time,
the United. Starts Ihoold have a prefkhent, who
had a prcdile&ion far a particular form of gov
ernment ; who might think th t the standard
which he has formed in his own mind wai the
standard of perfeitien, and who would, there
fore, cause all his tr.cafures fo-bend that way ;
suppose, for inftince, he lhould think that no
form of government was so fit for this country
at a monarchical one—that nothing fho'rt of he
reditary diftinitioas could give security and (la
bility to government. If this were his opinion,
he would, of courle, confine his appointments
to persons who lubfcribed to his sentiment. The
confluence of which wou'd be, the government
would he undermined, before the people were
aware of the design. If such ever lhould be the
situation of this coantfy, he trusted, however,
there # ould be republican virtue fufficient to
fruftrate and overturn the design ; but it could
not be done without a cdnvulfion, and this
country knew fufficiently well the miseries at
tending such an event, to authorize every possi
ble caution which could be taken to prevent so
great a calamity. I
But gentlemen had spoken of the executive
being warned, by awful experience, from ap
pointing perl"on3 to office of a certain opinion.
The meaning of this iniinuation could not be
mistaken. Every one knew who was meant as
well as if the gentleman had been named.—
Yet those who made the allusion were io sensibly
alive to every refleflion on oharafker, that the
house had been eruertaiafd for half w iwur m
the defence of a chara&er which had never been
attaclce l; as when his friend from Pennsylva
nia mentioned the gentleman lately appointed
to Portugal, it was only to (hew the possible ef
fedl to be produced by executive patronage, for
he immediately exonerated that gentleman frora
a£ling from improper motives. Mr. L.ackn® *■-
ledged that the leflbii which gentlemen alluded
to, was an awful and important one, and ought
to be taken as an exemplification for the raifchie
vous doflrine now sontendad for. For, said
he, whence has arisen our present diipute with
a certain foreign nation, but from an adherence
to the principles which gentlemen recommend
ed ? Whilst that gentleman was in office, our
affairs in that country bore a very different af
pe<£l from what they bore after he was-recalled.
Let gentlemen-think of this, and consider whe
ther i» not afford an awful lejfon for the fu
ture governmeat of the executive. Hethought
it did, and he hoped it was a lsfTon which would
have its due effeil upon the United States.
But, to torn to the amendment. It was ob
jected to because it wtnt to alter what was al
ready eftablilhed. Such arguments as these had
link: weight on his mind. He was never dif
pot'ed to .:tLntinue~a»y riica:u««.
was ufeful. Gentlemen were called upon to
(hew what good had been produced by the
change which took place eighteen months ago.
This they declined, and called upon the advo
cates of this amendment to (hew what gooi
would be produced, if it were to take effeil. He
believed it "would produce much good. In the
firft place it would leflen executive influence ;
though he did net wish wholly to destroy this
influence—for he had foine refpetft to his oath,
and he had some degree of admiration yet re
maining for that instrument called the conltitu
tion, and some remembrance left of the efforts
which he used to get it adopted ; but, though
he would not annihilate that patronage, he
would not increase it. Did necessity require
that we fhauld have all the ministers plenipoten
tiary we now have, and those we soon shall have,
if these are continued? Gentlemen
committee they did not kaow the reasons which
influenced the executive ; tiat therefore this bu
fineis must be left to that department, and that
all the legislature had to do, was to appropriate
for all the ministers it might chufe to appoint.
This qus'tion had, however, been contrarily de
termined at a former session, after a discussion
which could leave no doubt upon the mind of
any one. Mr. L. said he would mention anoth
er evil, which he trusted would make some im
pression upon the house, that was the expenee
of the ministers in quefiion, which, as he believ
ed it was unnecefiary, ought to be avoided ;
for, though the" gentleman lift up had said fime
thing about the ad/antiges to be derived from
Portugal, he never heard of any to be derived
from Prullia. Indeed, experience that
though yc liad-gonc- onincrgjfioy rnr diplo
matic agents, no good tiling had ever been pro
duced by them, except theSpar.ilh treaty., whieh
was Of ical advantage to the country ; some o
ther tliiugs had been done by them, which, he
believed, had beef! far better undone. Indeed
the gerttlemin from S. Carolina ( Mr. Pinck
ney) than whom 110 one cotljd he better able to
give an opinion upon the fubjeel, declared that,
iu his opinion, our diplomatic connexions had
been injurious to this country, and that they
ought to be got rid of as form as convenient ;
though, he added, he did not think this a prop
er time, or that this was the bed mode of dming
the bufnefs. He thought this declaration ought
to have a great weight.
Mr. Dana said, he found, that if this a
mendmeut took] place, it would prcducea sav
ing of 4,500 dollars a yeai to three ministers
which would be 13,500 dollars a year in the
whole. "Yet the gentleman lull up even
considered this favir.g, as worthy of the
debate which had taken place. In a pe
cuniary point of view, he supposed the de
bate itfclf would cost more money. But with
refpedl to economy, this was vulgar lop
ping, arid a miferabte attempt at public economy.
Public economy was not to be thus attained,
but by introducing order and lyileca into
our affairs ; and by etnployiogjtalerits In our
public offices. But it was said, our liber
ties were in danger, from an extension of
Executive patronage. This he allowed,
was au admirable tbeme for popular decla
mation, and perhaps might produce the ef
feft which the trover and supporters of the
bnfinefs wished. The gentleman from Vir
ginia spoke of the liberties of the people as
depending upon the minorities in Congrtfs
and that the preftrvation of the constitution
was owing to them, at lealt he so under
ftoodthe gentleman; he would correft him
if he was wrong. [Mr. Nicholas rc-ftatcd
wliat he had said.] Mr. D. continued, tho'
the gentleman had nut said expnlsly so, he
seemed to wiih this to be the ucderftanding
of what be said ; and he considered this as a
key to the whole debate. This motion,this
debate were intended to attraft public at
tention. If the gentleman thought this was
the way to preserve the liberties of the peo
ple;, he was certainly right in adopting this
mode, but he was furry that, for this pur
poGe, the committee should be reduced to
mere puppets, Cnce the speeches which were
made on this occalion were addrcflcd more
to the stenographers and the galleries, than
to the chair or to the members present.
Admitting that this was the view in which
the bufmeis was brought forward, he doub
ted not it would be fully answered.
But what did, the arguments of gentlemen
ifrith reTpeft"toT£xc<-uf| Vr prove?
Everything and nothing. . Could an offi
cer be made without enereafmg Executive
patronage? It certainly could not; and
therefore to prevent this patronage every
office under the government ought fp be an
nihilated. But the conflitution had declar
ed the Executive was to appoint to office.
The framers of it knew it would giv» the
Executive some power; but they gave it
notwithstanding. He might Upon the fame
ground object to the superior talents of the
mover of this amendment, which gave him
so great an influence in this house, as being
incompatable with the equality.upon whi<fh
the numbers of that body flood, and pro
j pole some process by which they might be
s reduced to the common standard. He did
net think the argument applied fpecifically
- to any thing.
J The next argument was the danger to-be
apprehended from a concurrence in opinion
betwixt the different branches of the govern
ment, as the different departments were in
tended to bfe a check upon each other. For
his own part, lie apprehended no, danger
from this source. It was not probable
that they would agree in measures that were
wrong ; br.t that titty wopM » r r~ thofc
which were right. But, according to the
doctrines of some gentlemen, the gov#rn
ment was made up of hottilityapd mutual
rivalry between its different branches j and
that when the two houses and the Prelidtat
concurred in any measure, mifchief was to
[ be theconfequence. His idea ofgovern
t ment, on the contrary, was, that when t jj e
. different branches concurred,thething which
I they (lid was right ; and that when they
1 did not concur, that something was wrong.
: He did not believe there was any danger to
• to be apprehended from the influence of
Executive patronage on the members of the
. legislature. Indeed, considering the obloquy
which patriotism tho't it necessary to cast
upon public officers, he did nat think their
t situations were enviable. How many can
-1 didates for ministers plenipotentiary could
the gentleman from Virginia point to in that
house? If he knew one, it was more than
I he did.—Another argument was that dip
lomatic agents were not necessary for ccra
■- merclal yvrpCTtty-zrri' rrtre
; .uifikjent for tnis business. Comttier«jol
: concerns between individuals could, douoi
lefs be so fettled ; but when questions caftie
I into view of a national kind, ministers wsre
: necessary to fettle them. He had not the
s hardihood to fay none such would take place.
; But as anargumentagainft the amendment
s The persons now in office were sent to Eu
• rope under an idea of remaining there for
some time, and had arranged their affairs ac
, cordingly. As it refpefted the present
i gentlemen in office, the measure would,
5 therefore, be unjust ; for it could not be
: supposed that they would continue to hold
• offices, when their salaries were redu
' ced one half. BeCdes etiquette required
J that we should have the fame grade of mi
. nifters aboard, that foreign courts aid here.
Mr. D. concluded by observing that Jie
• forbore to follow gentlemen into observations
• wholly unconnefted with the que (lion before
' them. The present state of Europe, he said,
J forbade the proposed reduction of our mi
nisters, as there probably never was a time
. when trifling causes produced greaterevents,
■ or when the talents of miaifters abroad might
• be more ufeful to this country.
( Debate to be continued.)
TUESDAY, JANUARY 2J.
Mr Milledge, from Georgia, appeared
• for Oic pra time to-day.
Mr. N. Smith asked and obtained leavfc of
' absence for his Colleague, Mr. Allen, foe
fifteen days. Yeflerday leave of absence
I far eight days was obtained for Mr. Liv
- ingfton by Mr. S. Smith.
• Mr. Reed presented the petition of Syl
• vanus Bartlett and Spooner, praying
1 to be permitted to fund certain certificates
[ which had been mislaid. Referred to the
committee of the whole to whom is referred
, the fubjeft of the propriety of excepting
t certain claims from the operation *of the li
mitation afts.
Mr. Milledge presented the petitions </
' J. B. Girardeau and J. F. Randolph, pray
s ing for compeiifation for military Terfic.-s in
: Georgia.—Referred to the committee of
' claims.
Mr. Sitgreaves moved that the commit
tee of the whole, to whom had been refer,
red the message of the President of the U
nited States, and the report of. the Attor
ney-General, relative to the law for the re
lief of persons impnfoned for debt, be dif
char-red from the farther consideration of
them) iii order that they might be referred
to a felt ft committee which he should move
f to be appointed, to enquire whether any
a.id what alterations are necessary in that
' law—both motions yyerc agreed to and a
*_ committee of three appointed.
The amendments of the senate to the
! bill for ftil'pending'the aft relative to foreign
s silver coin, were agreed to.
- Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee
i, of claims, made an unfavorable report on
r- the petitions of John Nelson and the widow
n Ruffcl, *. ho prayed to be allowed to locate
d certain lands, before the cession had beenmade by the Indians.—Committed to a
committee of the whole.
A mtffagc was received from the Prtfi
dent of the United States, inclosing a long
report from'the secretary of (late, and fun r
dry documents therein referred to, on the
fubjeft of the difpiite with the Spaniards al
the Natchez, which were read and ordered
to be printed.
A wefiagt was received from the senate
informing the house that they had parted '
the bill to amend the several afts for laying |
a duTy"Dn spirits and orr (tills, with amend
ments ; and that the President had approv
ed and signed the a£l forcompenfating their
door-keepers.
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways
and means, reported a bill making appro
priations for the ftrvice of the year 1798,
which was twice read and committed.
The speaker laid before the houfe'a coib
tnunicatlon from the war office, containing
a lift of pension applicants, whose cases had
been re-examined.—Referred to the com
mittee of claims. \
The house again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the bill provid
ing the means of' foreign intercourl'e ; when
Mr. Nicholas's amendment being under eon
nderation, Mr. Findley spoke iu favor of it,
and Mrv Isaac Parker against it. The com
mittee had leave to fit again.
Adjourned.
Foreign Intelligence.
VENICE, Oftober 16.
On the 12th inft. a conspiracy was dis
covered here, which, as our patriots fay,
had for its objeft, to cut down the tree of
liberty, abolish the new democratic consti
tution of government, and fubjeft the city
to a foreign monarchical power. Immedi
ately all the Chops and coffee-houfes were
(hut up, and the guards augmented by the
French Potifh legion now here, and patroles
fjnt out. Under the dir'&ions of the
French gtneral Bulland, -ifTiftcd by a sron~
military force, on the night of the 13th,
between 70 and 80 persons were arrested ;
among whom were 10 members of the mu
nicipality, 10 clergymen, several of the
cx-nobles, as for example, Crimani, D.an
dolo, Pefaro, See. In confequeuce of this
conspiracy, the following proclamation has
been publilhed by our municipality :
" Liberty—Equality.—The Provisional Mu
nicipality of Venice to the People.
" Citizens—A dark intrigue had prepa
red new fetters for you. Base metf accus
tomed to kiss the chains imposed on them
by the oligarcky, -Mxious to restore the an
tient (lavery, fought toTftaßimi tk< J e f P u.
tifm of a new tyrant. But the ever-watch
ful genius of liberty has dete&ed and de
feated the conspiracy. The traitors are ar
rested. The speedy and firm measures a
dopted by the committee of public welfare
has cru/hed the hydra of counter-revolution.
The brave patriot Bulland hastened wilh
the rapidity of lightning tfo ward off the
threatened danger. Citizens, public tran
quility is now fecurad ; refpeft the laws and
1.-. rTie cenftituted authorities. Our
liberty will fer the future no more be attack
ed with impunity.
" Done in the'fitting of the 1 ith of Oc
tober, at night."
This event has given rife to many fpecu
latfons, and many doubts are entertained
with refpedl to its natuie and views. On
the 13th, the President of the municipality
declared, that among the persons arrested,
enly a few were guilty ; and that the reft
would be detained only as hostages. It is
fuppiofed by some, that the whole has been
concerted to remove some persons who
flood in the way.
PARIS, Oftober 27.
It said that the objeft of the appoint
ment of Charles Delacroix iu the room of
Noel, as Batavian ambaflador, is to invite
the national assembly, as foou as possible to
substitute a new constitution in the 190 m of
that which has been rejected.
October 16.
Letters from Tufcany state, that the
French Venetian fleet, which has 15,000
land troops on board, can have no other
obje<st than the Neapolitan government.
This at haft is certain, that the court of
Naples, a3 well 33_tjiat of Rome, are mak
ing warlike preparations, with a degree of
activity and zeal, which cam only be ac
counted for either by adefire to attack, or
by fear of being attacked.
It appears by a letter from Bruflels,. that
the Archbilhop of Mechlin, who has been
transported beyond the Rhine, by order of
the dire&ory, is universally regretted in
Belgium. The cause of his having been ba
niftied was occasioned by his having address
ed a Pastoral letter to the commiflioners of
the executive directory, nearly as follows:
" The Apostolic, Catholic, and Roman
religion, which I most cordially profefs,
and of which I am a principal pastor, and o
bliged to give example to others, positively
forbids an oath of hatred against royalty, $r
the person of a king. Being commanded
to love our neighbour though he injure us,
and royalty being good in itfelf, and of di
vine inftnution, we cannot hate one or the
other without devialing from the principles
of christianity, much less call God as wit
ness to an action prohibited under eternal
{Mrius.
" The impossibility of answering the obli
gations required under the present cireum
ftances, (hould by no means render ojjr fidel
ity fufpefted, for I flatter myfelf, that you
have fufficient authoiity to aflure the repub
lic, that neither me nor my clergy will find
the least difficulty in promising, if necefrary
under oath, never to co-operate, direftly,
in the re eftabli(hment of royalty in France;
and that the government may be perfectly
fatisfied that they (hall never have cause to
punilh the priests, nor find them inimical to
their views, except when the laws and the
constitution is in oppofitiou to the laws* of
God.and the precepts of the gofpa!." '
COUNCIL OF. FIVE HUNDRED.. ,
SITTiNO OF OC T. 2J.
Chapelain, on motion of order, called the
attention of the council to the iltuation of
La Vendee.. '' That unfortunate country
(he(aid) is rcfcued from the calamities of a
civil war, and this would have been effeded,
much sooner, but for Carnot's opposing e
very measure proposed for that purpose.
But now, numbers of robbers and brigands
over-run and defulate that ill fated country.
It is not an army, but the Gend'armerie
which is to be sent against these banditti; —
number of gens d'arraes'not being
fufficient to check theirdcpredations, 1 move
that a meflage be feuttothedircftory,to de
mand, whether it would not be advifeable to
eftabliih a brigade of 5b yen d'armes in eve
ry Canton of La Vendee,"—Adopted, jL
; LONDON, -Noytrfttier 6.
The following account of the loss of the
Monnikendam Djtch frigate, prize to the
Beaulieu, is given in a letter from Amster
dam, dated Odtober 19.
" The Dutch frigate Monnikendam is
wrecked off Weft Cappel, having their
wounded on board, with the Englilh prize
raafter, a lieutenant, a midshipman and 33
seamen who wereputonboardforthe purpose
of carrying her to England. The frigate
had 14 feet water in her hold : having loft
the temporary masts with which file had been
supplied, and being in the molt imminent
danger of finkinjJ, the prize master fuffered
a Dutch Boatfvvain on board to run her to
wards tbe ftiore. By this means their livas
were saved ; the wounded were conveyed
to an hospital, and the 36 Englilhmen put
011 board tlie Walcheren, which lies at Flush
ing. The Monnikendam had 50 killed and
40 wounded, during the late aition.
The captain of the Hercules Dutch prize
died on Saturday of his wounds, and was
buried on Monday at Yarmouth, with great
funeral pomp, attended by the Dutch and
English officers,'and a company of the Ox-,
ford militia, who fired three vollies over his
grave.
Mr. Tierney and Mr. Bryan Edwards are
to be the Pyiades and Orestes of oppolition
during the ensuing sessions. Mr. Thomas
Thompson, the member for Evefham, is to
aft occasionally as their aid-de-camp.—
These gentlemen present a very formidable
array to the Ministry !
November 7.
Lord Grenvilleis the author of the State
Paper, which has drawn unwilling applause
from the oppofitioh papers themselves. The
possibility of its having been composed by a
relation of Mr. Sheridan, will solve the myf-
One thoufmrJ p<xuJi lmvc been collected
in the island of Guernsey for Otc-v»id»w- <j£
the seamen killed ou board Admiral Dun
can's Fleet.
November 8.
A paper of opposition observed yesterday
theft the projeft of the Direftory for the in
vasion of this country was extremely likely
to meet with success, as the numerous ar
mies which had conquered all the continen
tal powers might now be employed against
Great Britain.
On this fubjeft we (hall only remark, that
previous to the termination of the Congress
at Raftadt, which from the variety of mo
mentous objefts to be fettled there, ijiay per
haps rekindle the flames of continental vyar,
& make them rage with encreafed fury, the
Directory cannot withdraw the Republican
armies. It would be highly imprudent to
weaken the army of Italy before the Cisal
pine Republic is completely organized : and
it is from this army that the troops inuft be
drawn which are to form the garrisons of
the Islands which the French have acquired
in the lonian sea, and their new eftablilh
rr.ents in Albania. Their final projects a
gainst fnch states of Italy as they have not
yet subdued, call rather for an augmentati
on of their force in that conntry, than for
a diminution.
As to the army of Germany, it is scarce
strong enough to complete the Diredtory's
plan of invasion against Hanover, Ham
burgh, See. and to garrison the new con
quests of Belgium. Besides, the compara
tive condition of our navy, and that of the
enemy, renders the projected rnvafion a mere
farce. The Directory may succeed in vo
miting a few more of their galley (laves on
some defencelefs part of our coast, but we
have no fear from any formidable preparati
on they may make.
ALBANY, January 16.
Communicated by a gentleman from Vermont.
The Lton of Fairhaven continues his eld prac
tice of fending iccre3 of Bacbe's infamous Gazettes
from Philadelphia, to persons in different parts'of
the state of Vermont, by every mail which ar
rives—and ftrious mifchi fs are apprehended by
many from the efFeils which the misrepresentations
contained in said papers may have upon the minds
of those who arj remote from other information
than what is communicated to them through that
vile and polluted source, the Philadelphia Aurora.
Such miflatemen's have already been made refpeit
ing the Stamp Ait, that numbers of the weak and
milled, in two or three towns have aflemblcd to
gether and adtually erefted what they term liberty
poles. Lyon isnow athome ©n a visit. Whether
he has returned to fan the breeze of discontent, or
to bvfo tht tumult, is not certain—Of t! is it is be
lieved lie is fully f'niibl'-', that urlefs a majority of
his conftitiients can !>e kept from a knowledge »f
the political truths of the day, he Hands no chance
for success in the event of another ele^ion.
ALEXANDRIA, Jan. 18
A bill is before the legislature by which
it is contemplated to tax a wholesale mer
chant, felling 20,000 pounds worth of goods
j anually £ioS: Merchants felling more
than 3000 and not exceeding pounds
worth in the fame proportion. Retailers
who fell/*3,000 \«orth to pay £6, and all
who fell less than 3,600 worth to pay
The evidence to be required of the merchant
as to the amount fold, is his own oath.
A bill is pending befoie the legislature
for the more effectual ieftraming of gamb
ling. By this bill all gaming tables in the
(late ar# to be burnt on the 9th of ntxt
March. After thr.t time ff any money'is
listed asabett, anyfof.tliebyeJt&adcrs ase
at-liberty to snatch it and if the original
poffeflor or any other* perlbn attempts to de
prive him of the pofffcCon ps it, lie is to be
punished by fine aftd.itpprifonment.
January 19-
We hear, that as by the treaty with Great
Britain, individuals are liable for the debts
contra&ed with BritiCi merchants prior to
. the revolution, the legislature of Virginia
contemplate raifmg. a revenue the ensuing
year for the purpose of repaying to British
debtors the sums they paid into the Treasu
ry, during the revolution As the money
paid into the Treafiiry was depreciated pa
per currency, it is proposed to gjvg ithfm
in specie tac rcai value us- tlie i'Mat the
time- deposited.
WW* 1 - 1 '- r mip/M >->-»■>»■ HM mmm
it ©ajette.
"PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 24.
Joshua Clayton, Esq. formerly governor
of the state of Delaware, is eledted fena
torfor that state, to supply the vacancy oe
cafioned by the refignatron of John Viuing,
Esq.
Erratum in SciPl O, No. XIII. "
In 13 th line from bottom of firft para
graph, for reprefenteh himfelf, read " recom
mended himfelf."
At a quarterly meeting of the society of
the Sons of St. George eftablifhcd at Phi
ladelphia for the advice and afliftancb of En
glishmen in dillrefs, held at the City Tav
ern the 23d inft. the following gentlemen
were re-ele&ed Officers for one year:
Prcftdent, Isaac Hazlehurft
VicePrefident, Richard Rundle
Treefurer, Philip Nicklin j
Secretary, George Davi'3 " ' '«*
Stewards, John Travis
John Vaughan
Robert E. Griffith
Dost. Edward Cutlu/h
Thomas Ketland
Thomas Cumpfton
John Waddington
Joseph Bell.
The Judges of the Supreme emirt of Pennsyl
vania, have appointed the following courts of
Nisi Prius to be held :
For Philadelphia county, on ths 12th, 13th,
14th, 15th February, for trials by general jury.
16th, 17th, 19th,. 20th February—nth, 12th,
13th, 14th, 15th, 16th March, for trials by fpe-
And by Chief Juilice M'Kein and Judge
Smith.
In Franklin county, on Monday 16th April
Somerset do. Wednesday 25th do.
Aileghanydo. do. 7th May
Washington do. do. 14th do.
Fayette do. do. aift do.
Bedford do. da. 28th do.
By Judge» Shippen and Vates,
la Lancaster county, on JVlondly 9th April
Period
Do Monday, r6th April, 2d do.
York do do 23d do
Cumberland do tl® 7th do
Huntingdon do dS 7th "May
, Mifflin do do 14th do
Northumberland do do 21ft do
The late Do&or Franklin left the Penn
sylvania hospital a legacy of above five thou
sand pounds in old debtV conditioned with
the payment of certain antiquated claims
At a general meeting of the contributors, a
lefolution was passed to return the ledger to
the executors, from a full pcrfuafion that
the acceptance of the legacy, would involve
the inflitution in difficulttW arid debt. Que
re, whether this circumstance and some o
thers that might be mentioned, has not gi
ven rife to the ignorant falfe malicious and
inhuman attack on the institution in the Au
rora of this morning.
As the fubjeft is now before the legisla
ture, the members will fee examine and
judge for themselves, on the clear and un
disguised faffs laid before them, and not be
influenced by anonymous slanderers, to |a
bandon in its present incomplete situation,
the only asylum of the kind in the state for
the destitute stranger, and affli&ed sick poor
of our own country. An establishment
founded on the pure principles of benevo
lence, and which does the highest honor to
the commonwealth.
MR. FENNO.
IS there not danger that the word Patronage, which
has of Ute been so much declaimed on, in the House
of Reprrlentstives of the United Statrj,, may be an
deiftood by some persons in the Galleries, who are
not well acquainted with the language, for the words
putin arage: And that, from this unlucky miitake,
they may be led to Ibppofe some members are in a
rage with the Prefidint because he has not nominated
themselves, or their particular friends, for foreign ap
pointments ? I have been th? more apprehensive of
this millake from having heard the word pronounced
in a foreign accent, which renders it moie liable to
this conltruflion,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, 'January 24, 1797.
Six Fer Cent. ,6/9
Three per Cent. I( S/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/9
BANK United State.!, 20 to 2 1 per cent.
1 I'ennlylvania, 22 per cent.
InfuranceCo. Penufylvania, iato tx per cent,
1 N.A. {hares 40 per ceat.
i
Netu-Torii Jan. 18.
, DAYS.
Ship Concord, Welman, St. Peterfbug 104
Brig Cenance, Scott, Jamaica 18
Arrived at Jamaica, December 21 to 23.
Brig Nancy, King, New-York 19
Chatham, Stanwood, do.
Schr. Hiram, Murphy, do. 21
Sloop Minerva, Kilev, do. 16
The Hiram, was chafed into Turk's If- I
land by a French privateer, and detained
-oye day.
To the MFMBBM of the LF.G-ISLATURk of
PF.NNSTL FA AI A.
To-morrow the order of the day being
for the conlieleration of the bill for making
a turnpike road through Gtpiiautown, Sic.
you will rhen have to decide whether you
will grant relief to a considerable number of
inhabitants, from what they consider a
grievance; and which they fiud increas
ing in the fame proportion as the popnlati- J
on and prosperity of the country tills for
redress.
It is well known that in all new countries
almost every improvement is opposed to the
prejudices of the inhabitants, as well as the
different interests they combine. It is not
my intention to examine all the sources of
opposition that have hitherto fruftrated the
r'-jjcatfd applications to the legislature on
this fubjedt, the mOst material however I
beg leave to investigate.
The firft arose from a diversity of opini6n
ami prejudice among themselves as to the u
tiUrV of the measure.; dire nsceffity has con
viuced a very great majority of the oppon
ents tßjt their interest and convenience de
mand i\. 3nd they art now (with but a ve
ry few exceptions) united in the present ap
plication.
The next proceeded from the inhabitants
of the neighbouring counties above, who
have invariably contended against it on any
other principle than that of redemption; their
opposition is very considerably diminished qn
being informed that the present application
is founded 011 this idea.
The lall and mofito be lamented is from
a man whose principles are to me totally un-.
accountable and cannot stand the test of in
vestigation, inasmuch as he has never offered
(to my knowledge) one substantial argu
ment against it; but to cairy his point has
been obliged to resort to the fubterfuge of
manoeuvres,of repeated postponements, and
what heispleafedto denominate amendments
bnt with a manifeft view of defeating the ob
je&, insomuch that hie name has become
quite proverbial by the Carters &c. who in
bad roads, when thay get mirei or {tailed
load him with execrations and curies; the
weight of which fins I would not have reft
on me, as the primary cause, of them, for
all the benefits of popularity he enjoys under
them.
Thtfe manoeuvres have hitherto been but
too fucc'efsful. I hope they have been so
hackneyed as to become too flale to be re
peated with success.
A candid investigation of the business is
what is desired from the members generally,
and particularly those who from their distant
residence are no otherwise interested, than
from a desire to promote the good of the
country and the happiness and comfort of
itfl .ir Tf yOU ,<U"C tlMt a
great benefit will arise to the petitioners as
well as to the citizens of Philadelphia, with
out injuring any other class of inhabitants,
you will no doubt afford that relief they
think their situation gives them a ju ft claim
to.
Having {hewn that the opposition In the
two cafas has nearly ceased, I hope it will
not be expefted as to the last. I suppose it '
nearly as prafticable to turn the steeple of
Chrilt's church topsyturvy and stand it on
its spire, as to convince a man that I am sor
ry to fay (for the following realons) I fear
is neither open to the voice of reason, re
fleftion, nor yet the dictates of conscience;
the firft because much has been opposed to
him in vain—the second, because few per
sons have had a greater opportunity of fee
ing the state of the road—and last and vvorft
of all, because he has acknowledged himfelf
convinced of the neceffity/oi the measure al
though he has made use of every means in
his power to defeat it. 1 {hall nowleave him
(with my best wiihes for his reformation,
and with full liberty to ride all his life time
through quickfandsand mud;/it ie his choice)
and proceed to fliew that the extension of
the road to so great a diflance as the borough
as Reading at this time will certainly defeat
the objett.
There appears a manifeft impropriety in
carrying a road of this kind through a coun
try/ the inhabitants of which have not ask
ed for but are opposed t6 it. This circum
stance would of course greatly enhance the
price of materials necessary to make it, there
by ewcreafe the toll ; and when compleated,
every artifice would be practiced to evade
the use of a thing, the propriety of which
they are not convinced of.
The impossibility of raising money fuffici
ent to go so great a distance at this time an
the terms contemplated it an insurmountable
difficulty, and at once puts an end to the
business. Although it i| hoped thatenough
may possibly be fubferibed to go to the 12
mile stone. The principle of redemption on
whiclf the opposition has been diminfhed,
will of course fall to the ground or only be a
name by the
tance is short, there is every reason to be
lieve it will be realized.
I cannot but consider it as impolitic torifk
the fate of so desirable an obje£t, by under
taking the whole of it at once. The fmall
nefs of an objeft almost always insures the
success of it, as certainly as the magnitude
of it clogs if it does not entirely fruttrate it,
which I verily believe would be the cafe in
the present instance ; and as I can fee 110
reason why the remainder of the road may
not be done to advantage whenever the in
habitants desire it, "I am induced to hope
that you will agree to strike out the borough,
of Reading and rcndei the objeft attainable
by flopping at the 10, or 12 mile stone.
JUVENIS.
Germantotun, Jan. 24. 1798.
Bread, will be dijiributed to the Poor
Who may apply for thefame from the Friends
meeting house, corner of Second and Market
flreet, on Tuef J av the 3<;th January inft. at 10
o'clock in the morning, by the guardians of the
poor, agreeable to the wills of John Petty, and
William Carter.
PETER MIERCKRN, President
o". tfif* Board of Guardians.
Philad. Jan. 23. .
"new-theatre.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
JANUARY 24,
Will be presented (for the firtt time in Ameri«
ca,) acelrbi -ted new Comedy,called
The Will ;
OR, A SCHOOL FOR DAUGHTERS.
£Wntteft by aythor of the Dramanft,
Hour to grow Rich, &c. &c. and performed
to ci ouded houlcs all the last season at Drui y
Lant Theatie.]
Sir Solomon Cynic Mr. Bernird
Mandevillt, • Warren
Howard, - Moretori
Venus, Wignell
Rcslue, Harwood
Knl>err, Fox
OldCopfley, Warr«ll
Servant!.. „ V.flrs. Hunter, I-afferty, &c.
Albltia M.inrte'vi!!e, f uitfi the Epilogue)
Mrs. Mai ihall
Mrs KirM, L'EHrange
Cicely Cop-fley, Francil
Deborah, Doctor.
To which wil' be added, a Musical Farce, (writ
ten by the author of the Poor So!dier),-cailed
The Dead Alite.
Sir Wilter Weathercock, Mr. Warren
Edward, Fox
Sable, (an undertaker) Morris
Sheers, (a Taylor) - Harwood
Motley, Bernard
D .Minis, Worrell
Hunter.
Mils Hebe Wintertop, Mrs. L'Eftringe
Comfit, Oldmixon
Caroline, Warrell.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery', half a Dollar.
The doors of the Thsatfe will open at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places Icr the Boxes to be takeß at the Office in
tljie front of the Theatre, from 10 till a o'clock,
and from 10 till 4011 the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rice's bock-store,
N'q, 50 Market4lreet, and at the Officii adjoining
theThaare. FIFAT REPUBLIC A !
JUSTT.ANDED,
At Hamilton's wharf—A Cargo of
Fresh Fruits and Wine,
DIRECT FROM MALAGA,
By the brig Johanna, capt. Thieflen,
1000 casks fine Bloom Raisins
sfr 1 } <-
i553f%32 ]'»«-"»
100 Boxes lemons
100 Jars grapes
10® Kegs of figs
7 Bags foft (hell*d almonds
60 Boxes Jordan almond kernels
u Hogfbead. } Red Catalonia Wine
*oo Qrfca£ks 8 } Ma ' a 6 a Wine
100 Qr. calks fine Mountain do.
30 Qr. calks Colemenar do.
Apply to
Edward D una tit,
No- 149, South Front fttreet.
Who will Freight or Charter,
The said Brigantine '
JOHANNA,
ss&Ejr** Being a Dane of about zoo tons
burthen, for any port in Europe.
January 14 \ _
DON JOSEPH IGNATIUS DE VIAR,
His Catholic Mijefty's Coaful-General and Commif
fiontr to :he United States.
WHERE AS, by the I7rh article of the existing
Treaty of friendfhip, limits and navigation,
between his Caihnlie Majelty and ibe Un'tft d Skates of
America, it it stipulated, "That such fhipi, being la
« den, are to be provided not only with paifport;, but
" al r 6 with certificates containing the several particu
" lars of the cargo, the place whence the fh ip failed,
" lhat foit may be known wheiher,any forbidden or
" contraband goods be 011 board the fatne, which cef
" iificates ( fliall be made out by t the officers of the place
" whence the ship failed, in the accuHomed form :
" and if anyone fha 1 think fit or desirable to.express
" in the said cer ificaies the persons to whom the
" goods on boa id belong, he may freely do so ; wilh
" out which req iifi e., they may be sent to one of the
•' ports of the other contraft.ng party, and adjudged
" by the competent tribunal, according to what is a.
» bove set forh, that all circumjances of this o
" million having beeitAvell examined, they (hall be
" adjudged to be legal prizes, ualefs they shall give
' legal litisfaftioii ot their property, by testimony e
" quivalent."—N,,w therefore, in order to prevent
the improper capture, Icizure ur detention of any A
vncrican vefft-ls trading agreeably tm said treat/, by
his Catholic majofty's ciuifers or other armed vefiels,
I do hereby give notice, thai luch documents as are
required i.i the said article, shall be granted to those
who may apply at the office of the Consulate General
01 at any other of the Gonfuiates throughout the Uni
ted Stales. l<n. 83 g t
For Sale,
A complete file of the Philadelphia Gazette for
the year 1797.
■Also, several other files of Gazettes, publiihed
in this city, for the last 9 ni®nths of the year 1797.
Enquire at no. 94, noith Front-street
January 24.
All Persons
Having any demands agamft the Eftateofthe
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
bring in their accounts pioperly atterted, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and thofc who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
n»v. iq T 7Q7 $
ball.
Mr. Francis refpetft fully informs his fcholare,
and the public in general, that his third pra<£l
ifing* Ball will be on Thursday the 15th, at the
newAfleiriblyßonm,South Fourth Street,bet ween
Chefnut and Walnut ftrcet—Ladies tickets to be
had by applying to the scholars of Mr. Francis,
or at his hotife No. 70 Narth Eighth Street.—
Gentlemen's tickets one dollar each, to be had
of Mr. Francis, at the Academy, or at his house.
Mr. Francis likewise informs the"Subscribers
to the Selea Balis, that the next will be on
Tuefdaythe 30th —Those fubferibers who have
not yet received their tickets, are requested to
apply for them as above.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as u
fiial.
fa"- »• tl 4 t '
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occasionally attend market, may
hear of a place by applying at the U mile fto»e,
on the Bristol road, or No. 109, Arch-ftreer,
Philadelphia. A single man wohld be prtfered*.
Jan. 10. 2 awtf
Fsr bale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years old, has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking care of a child,
uid underftande house work. Enquire at No!
97, North sth ilrcet.
Jan. ia. *eod»w'To be Exchanged for
Bnt'Jh, German, or India Goo/is,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trafl of valuable Land *
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing io,ooo Arret.
Inquire of the Printer. t
Jta: TJ. • j (
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in lags and boxe*
Jan.aira, "J
Jt. Vincent?, > RUM.
and B'ngaJ j
300 calks RICE, snd
A parcel ef (hip building RED CEDAR. *
Oft 17. j'c
Chocolate and Mustard, 1
of a superior quality tnanufaflsred,
GINGEit and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer, »
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Win a,
fuitalile for exportation or home
The highest pike given for Mutard-Secd.
Alfa for fair, A quantity of Bocking and 5
common a variety of colors; a bale of •]
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale by (
JOHN HA WORTH, 1
No. 98, south Fronf-ftreet. S
nov- 17. m.feh.t.lj. I
Just Published, r
And to be h&d at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob- J
son, Camipbli, Youno and Ormrod, q
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS ,
Od the Cauftt and Cure of RentfctiDg or Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pradice of F
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib- C
iting ioterefting fails and reflexions relative to
th« Synoibus families, or Yellow Fever, which
hasoccafioned so much diftrefsand mortality, at
different periods, in feveralof the feapost towns
of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians, c
and Member of the American Philosophical So- j
ciety, ftc. *3 m i Si
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to his busi
ness, offers this Eftale for sale, on moderate
ternis. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Will, with two pair of flones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces ""
were lately built for the purpofo of calling Cannon j
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there, ~
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
iuprrior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately m.de, although focrie of the 24 were bored
inu»3» pounders, have failfd on proving. Tire si u- ,
atiou .8 very eligible, particularly for this brooch of I
manufacture, add » place of arms lving- in the (lite 4
of Connefticut, and only 30 miles from Itveral land • }
ings on the Hudf6ri*s river, and having every advao- t
tage th»l can rsfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a lirge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wi.h all the ftoek and utensils, and have predion
on or betore the firit of June next, and preparation
mav be made in the mean time for going into Blallim- }
mediately thcreslter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel- .
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepremifes, or totheproptietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dae, t. 3 awlf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth j
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wh. BLACKBURN s Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept for regiftcr
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. IT. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where ticketsmay be had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountng Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. wall be duly attended to,
by WH. BLACKBURN.
November I.?. §
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ot Vocal and inflrumental Music,
RETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemeii, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement fine® his residence in this ei
ty, and refpedfully informs his friend* and the pub
lie generally, that, in cenfequetice of the requefl
of some cf his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach oh the Piano forte, Violin See. &c
He deems it unneceffarry to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an instituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an affimbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame objeS. His
arrangement is such, tlpt an interference of the
the different fcxes will be avoided. Tbofe Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his fcfiool, he will wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit houft, where his terms and further parti
culate may be known.
Dec. 7. *lweod
For sale or to be let on ground-'
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eUlcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Houfefquare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two (lory brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, ftr Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wh»rf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflkfrae
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feel fix inches. These hdufes
jve the convenience of a public alley adjoftiing
on the north fide, and are a very Jtfirable fixa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<nor,or othere who
mayhavt occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms
for cafli. Bor further information apply to the
prinUr.
July 31. m&wtf
! For Londonderry,
Jj he S Y
William Whi'.ren, maCer. j
\ (launch good »e®6l, has the
cargo on board, and will (ai! as
soon as the navigation permits. II fpeeiiy app'ca
tion is made, a few caiks will b taken on freight; _
for which, and pa/Tage, apply to the Captain, at ,
Cuthbcrt's wharf, or the fubferibcrs. | ,
John Slyrtn, ;
Laudenberger's svharf, or ,
George Dobfon, r
No. 25 S»uth Street» c
For Freight or Charter,
To any Port in Europe,
ONE hundred andforty-oae tons |
burthtii—-iftaunrh and well built, and iails fa&.
For tcrmd apply to _ J
yofepb Anthony & Co.
ranuaryiy ' S'"
Nicklin Griffitb,
At their Store on Walnut StreetWnsrf — (
HAVE FOR SALE,
jg hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds. j
TenerifTe do. in pipes v
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters aad eighths of chelts
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8 [
Dimities, Ginghams, and M'dinets, in packa- j
gei fnitablc fur the Wel> India market .
Nails aflorted
Black quart bottles (
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow «chre dry in calk-i;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expeifted round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals «
Spanish Brown ,
Venetian Red • (
Purple Brown PAINTS c
Patent white
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
Ship Diana, (
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
N. iB. The late firm of Philip Nicklin Co.
is now chaneed to
NICKLIN 1$ GRIFFITH.
January 1.
For Savannah,
ro SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
, _ Tli£ faft failing ship
SWIFT -
Patrick Gribben, Mailer,
NOW lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—has handsome ac
commodations for passengers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Maft?r on board, or to
N. & y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, andfor Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina fadigo, Molafles in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, tec. &c
peceniber 'l7 3tawt(.
For Amsterdam, '
J—». The Ship
farmer,
John M'Coilom, Maftef;
'-•jiS-i® g> WILL fail in a few days, the
K>=GtA4tfe=Ss3gre»ter part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is ESnding, out of the said Ship, from Bovir
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter casks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sautecne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 14. $
For Sale or Charter,
figk GOOD IiOPE,
iwjfiFn Wi;ll carry about iAOt) barrels, and
ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers IS C 6.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have far sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
1 Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Tenertffe wine.
. November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
g Captain Ch is holm,
e A new vessel, with excellent
9 '" acoonxnodations for paffengers—
-0 Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
r Pafluge, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
Who have to difpttfe of,
i. A small invoice ©f GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
Landing this day,
From on board th» schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
% K " d i Jamaica RUM,
n FOR SALE B*
• n George Latimer Sff Son.
at uwvember 9.
a James C. IS Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THEIX STORE,
N0.513, corner of Arch and Front streets,
in 'BAFE fOR SALE,
i 4 Cotton and Hofiwy in trunk', afforttd
r A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
lc Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
a Ditto Gurrahs
'C Bengal black Taffetics
>a 4000 piccea Nankeens, and
10 Few chests best Hyson Tea
is jftfi—lsoo boxes heft London Window Glass,
is from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. Glass
ic Ware, aflorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city,
november *B. 3awtf
To Be Sold,
A ORERABLY to the Isft will and testament of
-V VVilliam decoafed, and poflVf- j
ficn given immediately, a valuable property in Arch I
street, between Third and Fourth ft-erts, confitt- c
ing of the henfr. No. 107, with the lot on which p
it is ereScd, a ftabW, iind other improvements.—
The honfe is \o feet ironc, and contains r-n good p
apartm«nts. The lot is of the fame br-.d:h a the
house and 109 fret deep, with a well of v aterand
a very eapacious walled cittern, both wi hp taijii.
in go»p rf pair. Theilablc. stands on tht re »r of
the lot and will accommodate four horfer nd i car
riage. This property enjoysthe pe-petu.' pr vilege
of a i6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wid,-, ez-enJ
ing to Cherry Street. Jfscentral pofitiijn and the
advantage-; it ]ioirelTes with rcfpeil to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any 1
petfan wifliingto poffefstn eligible p.'iipefr/in Phi- |
ladelphia, . i
For fttrther jjarticuiars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street ? °
RoutßT ~) ,';»k
or >A<Sing Executors. a
J?*ANCis BcNlfas S*VRr, ) £
January H ; ,
W. Haydon, c
Delineator of Drawing—from London, c
(Where he has studied several years under one of _
th« most eminenr matters in that science) £
INFORMS his friend.*, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Lik«wifc, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the.above terms. "1
W. H. flatter* himfelf his terms will be particii- J
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as a
he makes no additional charge if there ar« two F
nupils in one family, A
A linediredled to VA H. left at the office of this U
Gazette, yvili be immediately attended to. f>
January y. §^ w a
■'
0" The owners of the Brigantine o
Mercury, William Uron, master, captured by r
a Spanilh privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De "
cember, may receive interesting infarmation ref
pedling her, by applying to the Department of c
State.
*„ * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United State* will reiuler a service to the -
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news- "
papers. Jan 3. r
NOTICE. r
To holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF', e
and EDJVARp FQX's Engagements
TN many having been prevent-
Acd, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. now informthem, they
are ready to iflue the fame jto those who may ap
ply within fut.y days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street, j
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re- -
linquifhing their daiip on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment. '
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS VV. FRANCIS, \
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY, ,
JACOB BAKER. 1
December 15. dftot i
LOST, :
TN "
JtrV red Mqiocco Pocket Book, containing 8 '
notes of hand to Read & Pierii, as follows, .
Jolin Dufßeld's, for 441 dollars 73 cents,
William M'Laws 435 37
Oeorge JVay's 177 19
John Dojks it 90
Edward Clayton's 60
Do. 30
Do. ' 47
John Brown's jCio6-15-ii
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianote—an ev
ict upon Walter Franklin, IJfq. in tavor of Charles
kead, and sundry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment qf the aforefaid
notes of hand being ft»p'd, » reward of IJ dollars
shall be paid to the petion or persons bring
ing said pocket book with the afqrefaid contents to
Read and Pierie, N«. 65, Chefnut Street and no
questions a Iked.
January 19. 'eed-jt.
War-Office of. the United States,
. January tl\c Ift, 1798.
WHEREAS frauds have been pradlifed, in
obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the Officers and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the production of forged instruments..
To check in future such impositions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all persons, having claims
for bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
legal rcprefentative.or by virtue of any inftrumeut
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
refpeitive claims to the War Office, on or before
the firft day of January 1799 in order that such
claims may be duly examined, ad jailed and deter
mined upon.
To fubftantiatf such claims, aflri-X observance of
the rules heretofore iffucd from th» War Office will
be indispensable ; and in addition to what is requit>
ed by the said rules, thi certificate of the acknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, must
also set forth the place #f reGdence and occupation
J of the claimant or person makingfuch acknowledg
ment ; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
is by a witnef« or witnesses, their place or places of
residence must be set forth in like manner*
JAMSSM'HENRY, Scc'y of War.
Jan, 7. d6w
1 French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walrutrftreet,
INFORMS those who wiii to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeift in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
t culated to afford either ufefulinftru*slion, or plea
- £ure. The conditions, togetlwr with a catalogue
r of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller*s
in town..
n. b. All from and into the French,
Engli(h and Spanilh Languages, execu:ert with ac
curacy and difpatih. coira tiov. I^.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. HAst I£, from Beurdeaux ;
.. Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
Whjte Sautcrne \Vine in Cifcs,
Olive Oil in baikets of 11 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,-
For Sale by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
" 71, South Wharves..
» Who has also for Sale,
A fen- qr. Cafits Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. d ;w
. ' "FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. jj, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfi, a general assortment of Tools,
, Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and tlirty hour brass pinions
and f«tgc work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
• s Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pu nice Stone, Emery,
f s Rotten Stone, Cat Gat; bench, (land .and tail
, r Vices; Turos| Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &,c.
* A'pprentiecs'W-anted.
nevembcr 3, fJttutf
notice.
All persons who have any demands against
theeltate of Willam Fleewtood, oi
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafcd, are requested to exhibit their accounts, ■
properly attelltd ; and those who ace indebted It
to tke fame, are defircd to inake immediate
paymeat, to ,
GEO. DOBSON, J Mjain^r 'r. bl
No. 15, So. Tlurd.ftreet. )
January 4. dtf [J
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, 5sV.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, Dear the New-Market, ft
RETURN thanks to their friends and the p ,
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
nerfliip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has b<
betn diflolved by mutual confejit. .CAvanagh U
and Hearn have just received a quantity of St. u '
Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they 'J
intend to fell on very reasonable termss forcafb. "
Orders from the country moil punctually exe
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cut ,as usual.
Jan. 15. saw4W
Musical Tn/irument MantifaElory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER, j
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented, t(
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conStrudlion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a Angle to- .
al v'll convince the unprejudiced judge —As they
are manufactured under his immediate infjpedion,
of the very be-i feafoncd materials, he can fell ou
reasonable terms for Cask. Inftrumsnts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- c
change for new. j:
nevtmlcr 18. iawimo.
ALL persons indebted' to the'eftate of Peter
Gill, late of the Diftridl of Southward, de- j
sealed, are requested to make immediate pay
ment to either of the Subfcrihers; and those
who have any demands against laid eflate, are
requested to bring in their accounts duly attest-
JOHNMUkPHY, £ xecu . 1
PETEK SCK A VANDYKE, [ ~ xecu 1
THOMAS FARRELL, ) 1
Phjlad. lan. 16, 1798. *aaw4w -J
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store, <
No. 5», Sosoud street, the corner of Chefnut street, '
REPORT of the Committee of the House of' '
Reprefeatatives oi the United States, appoint- ]
?d to prepare ajid report Articles of Impeachment ■
against WILLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the ;
United States, impeached of high crimes and. mis- '
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutigp of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recefc of Congress, and 1
irtftruiling them " to enquire, and, by all
" means, to the ffSSJGJ extent
" of the offend whereof the laid William Blount
—-stands impeaches), and who are the parties and
" affociatcstherein."
Printed by order of the House of Reprefentatiaies.
December 20. §
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At tHe Prison of the Chy-*nd C»u«<y »f i>lwlird«t»-
= pfrjn.
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to iody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and Tat lis
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlfrs Thread
Alio— NJarble, suitable tor currier's tables,
tomb and head Rones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, flabs,facia, window. hea<s, fill*, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prifofi at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agept for the prison, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6ni
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prrfents his
mod refpeilful compliment&to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has exp?tienced fpr
these twenty-five years pafl, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walnut-streets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young latfies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
I Boarding School for young Ladies*
MRS. GROOMBRIDGp with much pleaf
ureand refpe&» returns her finccre ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years relidence i»
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a fupferior arrangement fpr
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
' refpcilive proffffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simfef
The lituaUan is perfeflly healthy ; and made
, more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
s of frround adjoining the house.
This Day is Published,
* BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Book fellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVove paper, and Hot•
prejjed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each otherj and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in TaMes,
the prominent'features oT each Constitution, and
clalTmgtogether their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
~ LL. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to tho People ol the United States.
5) N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
| per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
s, Juji Publi/hed,
And to bohad of Messrs. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
IS Cary, auu tlie other pricipal Booksellers in the
l > city .price one doilar, twinty-five cents,ir. boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
c. Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJ AMIN SMll'H BARTON, M. d.
Jure 10. «tt
I
City Commissioner's OlT.ce
;January, ixth, t-n 7
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THI CITIZENS
THE following arrangement ia made by the
said Comjniflioners, for clcanfin* th*
streets, &c.
riftridt No. i.—From the north fide »f Vine
street to the south fide of Mulberiy-flreet ; to
be untfer the fuperintenda»ce of Nicholas H'.cki
2. From the south fide of Mulberry street to
the south fide of Chefciut street t* be under the
fuperindatice of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
foutli- fide of Ced«r street, to be.under the fu
perinttndance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that hi,
bpoks, ivhich have been kept open tor their infp-c
---tionfince December Emitted to the uft
ult. and will during the firefent month remain
qpen at his Countjug-hoafe in Cheftmt Street for
their further investigation and fcrutjny.
, , , ■ JAMB OREENLEAr.
Philadelphia, Jan. til 1798.
JuJl received a Frejh Supply.
English Grammar,
The ft-cond edition, ninth improvements,
ADAPTED to the different clafles of learners;
with an appendix, containing rule 9 and 06-
fervations for afhfting the mere advanced ftudeuts
to wiite with perfpiraity and accuracy,
Br LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeflions in the Title. The app«n
dix contains some of the best rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to
have seen."
Monthly Re-piew, July 1756.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory netke, its materials have been ;
carefully and jtdirioufly felefled ; its arrangement
is diftimSt and weli adapted to the purpose of in
ftrmftipn and its expreflion is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &t L "
See the charaßir at large in the Analytical
RmiienVj July 1796.
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published by
I.intHey Mtirrsry, contifting of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inltancesof lalfo orthography,
violations of the rules of fyotax, defeits in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe&ing
.perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well as Tor theufe of lchools.
" W« Ivave been much pleased with the petufal
of these Exercises. They eccupy with diftinguift
ed excellence a mo ft important place in the fcicncc
of the EngliQi language; and as fuck, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as tor all tbofe who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs and precision their native
tongue. '
Monthly Review, July J 797.
The ?bo,ve Barfks are forfale at Joseph ScJames
Crukshanks book store, Market street.
January. !■
60 Dollars Reward.
D AN AW AT from the fubferiber, on the 14th
of December, 1797, a Negro Man, about ij,
years old, by the name of Cato, he is about 5 feet
7or 8 inches high, milling tvell proportioned; be
has a very coarse voice, his fore teeth {land very
far apart; thijre were one or two with him—l
winot rightly describe the cloths he took lyith
him, for he took two or three fuit6 ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kerfcy wowsers, a
fralfWOrri WW M
i he took with Mwjiiui-seri good
expea he ha? macJeßr Philadelphia ot -the
Whosoever takes up said npgro and secures him, fp
that the owner may get him fhajl have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living So Still Poni, Kent county, Maryland.
Januarys. *6t2aw
Wanted, to Hire,
A Targe and convenient HOUSE, jn or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou*
rent'will be given j to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OSI. iy. , ootf
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, CKefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedboojes ma,yhe.had gra
tis. These added to O's ufnal stock, form an
extensive and elegant colle&ion of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in fun-
I dry languages and on various fubjedis.
This Bay is Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and embellished with an
elegant froiitifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for theMnd,
0 R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
" Being a valuable colkiSlion of interelling and
mifcellaneops incidents, to exfiihit to
* young minds the hippy eft'efls of youthful in
" nocence and filial afFeflion—ln prose and verle.
1 Deiigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
r In the Press, ajid will *Je speedily publilhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
r Plan of Female Education.
Subfcriptipns for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred will be
e printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
t Kvered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelUlhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
- dollar. ■"
January 3. 3'-
This Day Publifhetl,
A*d to be fold by YOUNG, corner of
Second and CheAiwt
Price' 3-8/16/ of a Dullar,
Observations on certain Documentt
Contained i* No. V and VI of
u The History of the United States sos
h the year 1796,"
4, In which the charge of speculation againll
d ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
*' Late Secretary of the Treasury, is
h REFUTED.
wri r r sir Br himself.
Thi? publication presents a ooncife Satement
of the base means praflifed by the Jacobins of the
-:e (jnited States to asperse the charaders of thof#
persons who are canfidered as hostile to their ilifcr.
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
t- refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgti andVmablt , onthefub.
_ jest of the documents aforefaid, and a scries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife toMr.Ha
e, milton, proving beyond the poiTibility of a doubt,
le that the conncflion between him and Reynold*,
Is, was the result of a daringcpnfpiracy on the part
g of the latter and his alfociates to extort money.
EA discount of one third from the retail price
t mads in favor ot wholefaic purcba/crs, for
cash. Orders tp be aJdrtffed to Mr Youkc.