of t lie Unite* States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1791.J
For Boston,
HERALD,
Elijah Bowen, Matter,
A fiiiHMlmgvdTel an d will take freight low, apply
to the Matter on board at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, or
Joseph Anthony & Co.
June 1, dtw
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP
RICHMOND, ■
JUST arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpedl as
fcxcellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and sheathed. She.is 80 :
.feet keel feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be- 5
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of
Flour. For terms, apply \o
Mordecai Lewis. j
rt«y 30 _ ;
~ 9 ■ ' L ANDING,
At Walnut.Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown, {
Rafter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas & John Ketland.
Said Brig for iale,
With two pair four pound CAN
NON, and one pair lalb. CAR
may 29 §
FOR LIVERPOOL,
jSt L I B'TR T K
Isaac Vredenberger, Master,
A good new vessel, fails well—
Lying at Wilcock.v'Wharf, wiil til about.the tent hot'
next month, a confidcrable part of her Cargo b<,ing
engaged*—for freight or p»fTa{eapply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return oneof
the firft fall veiTelsto this port,
t may 20 dtf
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
BELVID ER E,
JONATHAN REYNOLDS, Majler,
YING at J effeand Robert Wain's
■*^ c:KS burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Chtefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and faft failing (hip, i? well fbund—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
a few days at a very little expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, Worth Front
street, to
RICHARD D. ARDEIf.
WHOHAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHtoP
10 Tons rolled fheetlead
20 Duck, afTorted numbers
The Ship Belviderc, if not fold or Char
tered before W«dnefday next, will take freight for
London.
19 §_
JUST ARRIVED,
lb the brigGayofo, capt.Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hoiling jworth & Co.
No. 22, Little Water street, South,
april 20. §
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
•f the newest and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANa FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller & Go.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. 5
Robert Smith iff Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE received by the ship Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Ruf&a Good*, con
fillin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an assortment of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Lutestrings, and a variety of India Muslins.
may 33 d^w
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
' I FROM BOURDEAUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhdg.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
Thomas Fitz/tmons
may 26, s4w
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers. —
These situations are coniidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indifputable —A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, * ho will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 2.
For Sale,
A f arm and Country Seat,
SI o* the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norru-tovvn, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm containi 195 aces of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the reft arable land. The houfc and garden which is
large and well paled, stand in the inofl pleifant fix
ation, commanding a view of tho river, an
which is oppofite,,and the village of Norris town —
There is a shad fifhery belonging 'o the place. —En-
quire iu Philadelphia, No. 96. N T orth Third Street,
01 oa the prcmi'ei. April 16 lawti
By John Fenno, N 0- 119 Chejnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA
CON G R E S 5.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, May 16.
(Concluded from yejlerday 1 s Gazette.)
Mr. Harper said he fliould not employ a
great deal of time in anfvvering what had fal
len from the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Gallatin) because he conceived that his
arguments were so much at war with each o
ther, so contradictory, and lo palpably ab
surd, that it was scarcely necelfary to bring
them into view to refute them.
But he would make a few observations on
the ground of expediency. As to the ground
of constitutionality, gentlemen mult excuse
him if he laid lie did n*t jhink them serious
in their objections oa that head. It appear
ed to him as if what was said on this part of
the subject was one of those excursions which
gentlei(ien are apt to take, when they have
nothing material to fay. He Ihould therefore
treat this argument in the only way in which
he could treat it, except it were with ridicule,
by palling it over in silence.
Two objections have been urged againlt
this measure, on the ground of expediency.
One is, that this force, when organized, will
differ in no respeCt from ordinary militia, and
therefore will not be more effective; the o
ther is, that it will be extremely dangerous to
the liberties of the country,
i Mr. H. said he had often heard (landing ar
| mies railed against, from the days of Pultney
to the present time ; it was a fine fubjeit tor
popular declamation, and was therefore often
embraced, when an orator wiftied to make a
speech for the public ear j but it was reserved
tor this day and for this motion, to discover,
not that (landing armies of mercenary troops
are dangerous to the liberties of a country,
but that armed citizens are dangerous to its
liberties. Gentlemen now hear, forthefirfl:
time, that they cannot trull their own bre
thren, their lons, their dearest relations —the
Youth of the country ; that generous Youth
who come forward and lay that they are rea
dy to lay open their breads to receive the firft
wounds which are inflicted upon their coun
try. Certain gentlemea to fee
this corps of generous Youth, and represent
them as a force not to be trufljed. Why ?, Be
cause it will prove dangerous to liberty. To
the liberty ot insurgents and the seditious,
Mr. H. believed this force would be danger- i
ous. The gentleman trom Pennsylvania, no
doubt, recollects how extremely dangerous \
volunteer corps are to liberties of this kind,
though he did not know that this recollection !
produced any part of the antipathy which he j
now (hews to the proposed establishment,
though he could fee a natural cause for it, I
as it went to put a hook in the nose of insur
gents ; of those who wilh to overturn the go- I
vernmenf. In this he could find a natural
cause of aversion in that gentieman agaisit I
tinared allfociations of citizens which iire the
natural defence of republican governments.
It was because these allocations are danger
ous to the fpeciesof liberty which he had de
scribed that Mr. H. was in favour of them ;
because they are dangerous to thajt foe, those ;
perturbators of mankind, who are not con- !
tent with destroying our commerce, hut who 1
threaten to deltroy all tlvit are held sacred in ]
this country —our government, all our valua- ]
ble institutions, our laws —our liberty.
But, said Mr. H. we are told that no dan
ger exists; and when we wilh to put arms in
to the hands of our citizens, and speak of
danger, we are charged with introducing a
system of alarm, by which this country will
be brought intoa funilar fituatidn with that or i
another country. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania mentioned England, and deplored
the effeCt which alarm had produced there.
He believed be did deplore it, because if put
an effectual check to difafteCtion and di{or
ganization j it alio put a check to French
principles and French arms, and this he be
lieved that gentleman regretted. On the con
trary he himfelf rejoiced in this; because he
thought the effect of it had been happy, and
he believed nothing else would have laved
England from deltrnCtton. It was on this
account that he wifhedto fee tha fame system
of alarm exist here. What has been the ef
fect in England ? It has brought forward the
people, the cultivators of the foil, the pof
ieflfors of property; they have taken arms in
their hands, and rallied round their govern
ment. They have said, 44 though our go
vernment is not the belt in the world ; tho'
ours is not the highest lot of happiness which ,
exists, yet it is hapjnnefs in the extreme when
compared with that which threatens our ex
istence." They have therefore armed them
selves, and the friends of France in that coun
try have been put down. And how was this
effected? By the system of alarm, of which
the gentleman from Pennsylvania complains ;
notwithstanding the foporifics which were
there continually held out to induce the go
vernment to acta contrary part, by men who
cried out Peace, Peace ! to hood-wink the
community. This system of alarm had, how
ever opened their eyes. It will, said Mr. H.
have the fame effeit here, ifkept up only ; it
will preserve us from foreign invasion and in
ternal enemies.
It is denied, by those who either do not fee
the danger, or who have succeeded in lulling
themselves and others to deep, that the dan
ger exists, and they wilh the alarm to cease.
indeed, he ftiould tremble for the fate
of his country; then Ihould he think the
doors were open to foreigninfhience, domestic
insurreCtion, and plunder; then Ihould he ex
peCt to fee the Legislature of the country go
out to welcome French Commiftioners, and
receive orders from their hands ; bftt, whilst
this alarm exists, he ftiould apprehend no
danger, he ftiould resist these opiates, and en
deavour to draw aside the veil which the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania and others endea
vour to spread before the eyes of the people.
Indeed, he believed the rights and liberties
ef the people of this country reft on a final 1
pivot, which was to be found in the present
well-founded alarm, and a flight stroke of
the gentleman from Pennsylvania might easi
ly overturn the whole.
But even if that gentleman were to succeed
in blinding this Houle, it would not be in his
power to blUd the people. They will defend
themselves. If Congress ftiould be so blind
to their interest, as not to lend their aid toor
ganize these volunteer citizens for their de
fence, he hoped and trusted they would not
be forgetful of their duty.
But the gentleman from Pennfylvaniacom
plains that these volunteers are not made a
part of the militia, and denies that they will
THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 7, 1798.
be any thing superior. Why then does he
quarrel with the institution ? If it did not give
a more effectual defence against either an in
ternal or external enemy, why does it offend
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, and his
supporters? He thought their didike of it
the best proof which could be adduced in its
favour. They acknowledge that these corps
will have strength, nerve and force. The on
ly question is about directing it ; and th«y are
afraid of a pollible direction of it. It was his
wifli to have it so organized as that it might
ad ; and whenever the fame crilis fha 11 exist
that has existed in Ireland, and such as has
threatened England, he would cajl all this
force into a<stion. Whenever an Executive
Directory (hall be fittkng, and a day lhall have
been fixed for affaffmating the Aristocrats, or
all those who do not concur in the principles
of French Democracy, then he Ihould wilh
this force to be turned agamft these persons.
He believed, however, this time was far off,
and he believed the formidable nature of this
force would effectually prevent its arrival.
If, said Mr. H. there be no dangers of this
kind ; if there be no persons disposed to ex
cite infurrettions; no persons ready to aid a
foreign foe, and rally round a foreign standard,
and no invasion takes place, there will be no
thing for these volunteers to be called upon
to do; they will have cost nothing, and 110
inconvenience will arile from having had them
ia readineis.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania fays,
the militia are equal to the quelling of infur
reftions, and adduces the western inlurrection
as a proof of it. But was it not known that
means were taken to damp and pally the spi
rit of the Militia in that affair, which effect
was not removed until after the volunteers
came forward j and this was one of the crimes
of which the volunteers were guilty, and it
was a fin which cannot be pardoned or for
gotten by that'gentleman, but it Wbs one of
those things which endeared volunteer corps
to him. And unless the gentleman from
Pennsylvania could convince him that the
people will feel themselves less secure when
they fee a large force in the counttry, han
when they have norie, he Ihould not believe
that the eftablilhment of this corps could
produee a bad effect upon the miritia. On
the contrary, he believed it would excite em
ulation in the militia. They will fay, we will ;
not fuffer these ftripplings to get all the lati- |
rels. This spirit will begin with the moftac- 1
tive, but it will spread througli the whole of ,
the community.
Gentlemen speak of this as a permaneht |
corps. This is contrary to the provisions of :
this bill; if not, it might be ealily limited.
And what will happen after these volunteers
lhall return from service ? Will they disor
ganize the militia, by carrying with them j
home a knowledge of arms and military duty? :
He believed a very contrary effeft would be
produced. He was persuaded they would i
carry home with them to the militia those
materials out of which soldiers only can be
made.
As to the idea of thele volunteers being re
ftri&ed to certain classes of persons, it is too
contemptible for serious notice. Can it be
believed that the independent citizens of this
country, because they are not rich, cannot
provide themselves with the necessary arms
and accoutrements of a volunteer? No ; they
will fay, " though we are not so rich as our
neighbours, we are rich enough to buy our
arms and military coat." He had seen the
militia act in this manner in the town where
he lived ; and though they had expensive uni
forms and equipments, the spirit spread, and
men of all delcriptions, from the most weal
thy, to those who worked for their daily fub
liftenre, provided themselves with them. And
he could not believe that any American, who
| polfeffes his health, and liberty, was so poor
1 as%not so be able to provide himfelf with the
( necessary arms and uniform to become a vol
; unteer. Yet gentlemen chose to insinuate,
| that this was a plan to arm the rich against the
poor. Who dare talk to the people of Ame
! Rica of their poverty ? It is an inapplicable
j phrase in this country. As he had already
said, every man could afford to become a vo
lunteer ; the will only was necessary; and that
will, he was persuaded, was ready, if not
damped by the motion of the gentleman from
Pennsylvania.
The modifications of which the clause is
susceptible, he would not point out j but if
there was any which could be agreed to, with
! out cutting up the principle of the feftion,
! lie Ihould be ready to assent to it; but be-
I cause the details of the fe&ion do not please
gentlemen, is that a good reason for striking
out the fe£tion itfeU? Certainly not; in the
language of the gentleman from N. Jersey it
is another instance ot the unfair proceedings
by which every stage of this bill had been
combated and oppoled.
Mr. Gallatin and Mr. Brooks rose
together. The latter had the preference.
Mr. Brooks fuppoled, that by this time
the committee would have been ready for the
question. He did not himfelf intend to have
said any thing upon it ; but feeing the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania ready to rake the
floor again, he would fir ft fay a fe»v words
upon it, that that gentleman might have an
opportunity ot remarking upon what he said
alio. 1 hat gentleman had gone through a la
byrinth of opposition to every measure of de
fence ; he believed he mult now be come
pretty nearly to a conclusion. He could not
refufe, indeed, an appropriation for the torts
and harbours, but that was -Very confined ;
but he had fuccellively oppoled all the other
mealuresot defence. The Naval Armament,
he was certain would produce war, tho' uow he
insists upon it that there is no danger of war, yet
he himfelf had advices this day of veffelsof the
enemy being in the harbour of New York,
that they had taken two vessels there and that
they were ready to point their guns upon us.
Iha Provisional Army, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania opposed in every fiiape ; and now
he attacks the Volunteer corps which seems to
be his last point. These volunteer corps he
cannot bear the name of. Why? Because
they (hew the spirit of the people, more than
any other measure. Government will now
find who are willing to defend the country.
1 his lure!y was not the reason why he objected
to it; and yet a stranger would be apt to
think so. He would venture to fay one thing,
however, that if the French Directory had had
an agent 011 this floor to have pled their cause,
he could not, hay e done it more effectually
than the gentleman from pennsylvania ; and
that gentleman may certainly have this conso
lation, that if, by any fortuitous circumstance,
he fliould be driven from this happy country,
he will certainly be received in another, with
a cry of " Well done, good and faithful ferianty i
enter thou into the arms of the Directory." i
The gentleman had confidently laid, that .
there is no danger to be apprehended from an (
invasion, because he was convinced the citi
zens ot this country would fuffer no foreigner '
who comes with hostile views, long to exifton
ourfhores; but Mr. B. believed the way to
be fafe, was ftot the course of (fitting dill and
folding our arms, recommended by that gen
tleman, supposing danger at adiltance. It we
fliould be found in such a situation we may
expect to be overtaken with danger, as with
a whirlwind. He had fa id much of the chear
ful fubmiiTion of the people to the saws. He
was himfelf glad to hear it ; though he be
lieved it was more from a principle of fear,
than love, in certain quarters of the Union.
But the gentleman from Penafylvania fays,
there is no danger to be apprehended from in
surrection, or from peffons in this country
joining the standard of any enemy who may
attack us ; but, (aid he, we have better au
thority than the word of that gentleman to
believe the contrary. The Executive Direc
tory have said, that they have diplomatic
agents here—that they have them in abun
dance ; so that they are better acquainted
with the situation of things here, than that
gentleman is willing to believe, or to admit.
He himfelf believed the faft, to a cerjain ex
tent; and the beftwayof guarding again ft dan
ger is to be ready to repel it.Even in this city,
ona late occafioil,afeeble oppofitionof foolilh
men, mounted the French cockade, and de
clared that when the French troops came,
they would join them, Foolilh men ! he cal
j led them, for he apprehended they had dis
covered the truth too soon ; and trifling as
this may seem, he was of opinion that these
men only spoke what they heard, and that
these things did not originate with themselves.
But the gentleman lays, that if these vo
lunteers are permitted toarm and equip them
selves, it will difguftthe Militia. Little does
that gentleman knovy of the spirit of this
country. Had he been here at the beginning
| ottlie Revolution, he would have seen men
1 of a different description. He never knew any
I jealouly amongst our soldiers or militia, be
j cause one looked a little smarter than another.
I At the present time, indeed he believed, if the
| gentleman from Pennsylvania would go out
; on a review day, he would fee part of the
Militia of this State, as well as others, in uni
i form, and part in common clothes, without
! any disagreeable feelings being entertained
j on that account.
Mr. B. concluded with faying, that as the
I day was far advanced, he would not take up
any longer the time of the committee than to
fah, tnat either the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania does not understand the fubje£t, or his
I reasoning is peculiar to himlelf.
Mr. Gallatin said, he fliould difappolnt
the member from New-Yoik, in some de
gree, as he exprefTed an expedition that
he (Mr. G.) fliould answer what might
fall from him ; but whea a member so far
abandoned every rule of common decency,
so far forgot the refpeft due to this house and
so farinfulted the understanding of members,
as to pay no attention to the question under
discussion, but laying argument aside, goes
merely into a wide fieidof abusive declamati
tion, he conceived him entitled only toftknt
contempt, and that and that alone the mem
ber from New-York would receive from him.
The gentleman from South-Carolina, Mr.
G. said. had not made any reply to the lead
ing arguments urged against the fetlion un
der eonfideration.
He would once mereafk whence arose tV.e
particular partiality which is (hewn to the
proposed organization of these corps ? Are
gentlemen afraid that the present militia offi
cers will not be so good as those appoin ed by
the Prcfid- nt of the United JState6 ? Or are
they afraid that if these corps are organized
agreeably to the existing laws of the United
States, that they will not be so good a de
fence as if organized according to the pre
sent bill ?
Whrn gentlemen speak of the Western
Infurre&ion, and of volunteer corps, why
do they not fay there was only one volunteer
corps not attached to the militia, out of
12,000 men, and he adduced this as a prcof
to (hew, that whatevtr disorders might take
place in the country, the militia would be
lufficient to quell them. They seemed to
to think differently, and that they are not to
be trulled.
Gentlemen opposed to this motion, charge
the supporters of it, with being* afraid to
put arms into the hands of the citizens.—
The charge was unfounded. They are not
afraid of putting arms into the hands of our
citizen?, but they do not wifli to put ihem
in \W: hands of a few chosen person% to the
exclusion of others. The reliance of the
supporters of this motion is in the people at
large ; that of the oppofers of it, in these
few. Mr. G. cvifhed gentlemen to (hew the
difference betwixt these -corps and militia,
and what are tho great advantages in favour
of these, and then the committee may judge
betwixt the merits of each. He could fee
no advantage from the present plan ; all that
he could conceive from it was, that its sup
porters believe there is moVe fafety in arming j
a feledt few, than in depending upon the
whole people.
But the oommittee are told, that these
volunteers, thus organized, are the best cal
culated for fupprefiing perturbators and dif
organizers. But this was a me r e assertion,
and uo argument had been adduced to prove
that they would be better calculated for that
purpose, than the people at large, or more
likely 10 exert themselves in support of the
conlUtution and liberties of the country.
The gentleman from South-Carolina had
said, there were diforganizers and seditious
persons in this country, and that he was de
termined to support the present system of
alarm ; and yet he has not (hewn where these
diforganizers and perturbators exist. Is
there any thing krown Mr. G. asked, to in
duce a belief that there are persons of this
description in any part of the United States?
And when gentlemen, without any proof,
\VOLUME XIII.
infill that it those volunteers flioll confill o?
men of greater property, they v ili, on that
account, be the moll proper to suppress fedi
tio.n, hi* would not hehtate to fay, that the
aflVrtion implied an illiberal and unfounded
insinuation again !l. all the other clafFes of tho
community, and was a calumny on the great
mass of the people ofthe United States.
But the gentleman from S. Carolina, went
on to support the jultice and policy of a simi
lar plan adopted in England, the effect of
which, he supposes has been to suppress in
furrettion, and to save that country from that
general fyltem ot devaltation which has taken
place throughout Europe- But what, Mr.
G. alked, are the etfeits which we lee ariling'
from this fydem ? From that l'ydem of alarm
and from that combination againil France,
which went hand in hand, at the commence
ment of the European war ? The conleqnence
has been that France has not relied l'atisfied
with making regulations in her own govern
ment, but has subjugated some of the fined;
countries in Europe, and subverted their go
vernments, and Ihe now threatens Great 13ri- v
tain herlelf with"a limilar tate. This Mr. G.
said, iue knoiv has been the effect of those
measures ; but the gentleman from S. Caro
lin, in order to reconcile us to a similar plarr
sets up his-fuppofition againll fa6t, and tells
us o what might haw happened, in Ins opinio
on, had not this fyltem of alarm been adopt
ed in England. He knew what h;»d happen
ed, in consequence of those fatal fieps : what
might have happened had they not been a
dopted,, was a matter of conjecture. It was
but a poor conlolation to that nation, to be
told now by its mi nil'ier, " matters would have
been worse, liad I not taken f ich and Inch
measures." And if a limilar conduit was
now purlued by this country, and Ihould be
attended with limilar calamities, it would af
ford but a miserable comfort to America, to>
fcearj two years hence, the gentleman from
South Carolina alien that a contrary courfc
would have produced, in his opinion, I'tiU
greater evils. It could not be denied that
that fytftem of alarm which the gentleman
from S. Carolini commended, had in En"-
land, increased that difatfeclion which it was
its obje£t to suppress, and the fame effett
would be produced here by similar measures.
How was the alarm in England supported f
By means limilar to those adopted in this house
this day. A gentleman riles from his feat,
and tells the committee he saw five or fix men
in the flreets ot this city with "French cock
ades in their hats. He fays that some one
had reported, that it was said, that somebody
had heard that one of them had said, lie
would join the French if they landed here,
the gentleman immediately concluded that
there is a deep Conspiracy in the countiy,
and thousands ready to do the fame. The
fame things were done in England at the be
ginning of the war ; the tower was fortified
on account of an infurreflion which no one had
ever heard of. Every member on this floor
might remember the numerous artifices used
there at that time ; and it was in order to a
void the evils which had been produced irt
England by that fyfiem that he wiihed it to
cease here ; that he wiflied, indeed of plac
ing these Young Men in corps separate from
the Militia, to have them joined to it, foasto
make one undivided general defence for the
country, indead of separating them in the way
proposed, which could only produce divisions
and uneasiness amongd the people.
Mr. G. said, he would make no remark up
on what fell from the gentleman from S. Ca
rolina, as to the unfairfiefs of this motion to
ftnke out the lection, indead of endeavouiing
to amend it. He thought it was not less un
fair for gentlemen to wifn a contrary course
to be taken, whild they declare themfsives
unwilling to agree to any amendments which
would make it more agreeable to those who
oppose it. Nor (tiould'he make any remarks
upon what had fallen from that gentleman on
the fubjei*l of Ireland, in refpedt to the Exe
cutive Directory fitting there, or of the day
appointed lor a general massacre. He had
seen such things in the papers. How true or
fa He they were, he could not fay. But he
did know that there had been for a long
time in exillence there a fyltem of Military
Coercion, Which had doubtless increased the
difatfetlion which before eluded, and which
will, in the end prove fatal to the Govern
ment of Ireland. Yet the gentleman from S.
Carolina fays there may be a time when it
will be proper that the fame Military Coer
cion Ihould exilt here. He tr'ufied, that gen
tleman was the only one. who anticipated inch
an event, and he did not think it nerelfary to
refute or comment on that oblervation.
For a number of years, Mr. G. said, at
tempts had been made, in different shapes
to give to the Prelident of the United States
a Standing Army, or felecl corps of Militia
Ever lince the organization of the present
Canditutiun these attempts had been on every
occalion repeated and defeated. This kind
of half-way Army and Militia would ettect
the purpose, and might become the moll dan
gerous of all others; and whatever might be
the fate of this motion, he never would re
pent to have exerted himfelf as far as he was
able in order to prevent its introduction.
Mr. G. concluded, with faying that he was
sorry he had taken up so much o* the time of
the committee on thisqueftion. He had foo
ken three times ; which he would not have
done, had any other gentlemen anj'wered the
observations whigh had been made in oppoli
tion to this motion by the gentleman from S
Carolina. But however di(agreeable it was to
him to be obliged to rife so often," not only to
meet the arguments of some gentlemen, but
the abuse and impertinent allnfions of other*
nothing Ihould prevent hi in from doin . it'
whild he had hopes that the fata! measure no w
proposed might be defeated.
Mr. Allen wished to know how the Go
vernment cduldget a more effectual defence
than by putting the quedioivto every citiz a
of the United States, " IVillyiuin cafeof dan
ger, became a l'ialunteir in the public Service ? >
Government does not chufe, like the'gentle
man from Hennfylvania, to rely upon the
militia altogether ; but to addreis the whole
people, and not a few, m the manner he had
dated, and he milled this quedion would
not be anlwercd by a few, nor by the rich, a.
l°ne,
The people of the five Eadern States, Mr.
A. said, are already armed and equipped, at
their own expence ; and it could not be (aid
they are rich. The people in these dafs ar-*
lo well armed and difcipliiied, that there will
; be no occasion tor them to offer themselves as
volunteers. In other places, but a (mall pro.
portion of the people ars armed", lathi- cji*Mr. A. said, a great proportion of the people
are unarmed ; and he could fee no milchief
ttut could arise fiojm pn r ting arms into their
hands by means of this kind, which was the
only way in which it could be done. And he
believed the organization of these brave and
gerwrous young men, would produce the best
effects.
What the committee had heard from the
gentleman from Pennsylvania, of this being
a plan to arm the rich against the poar, was
said to raise a popular clamour against it, and
it was for this purpole that the gentleman had
risen three times to-day. Whilst the people
from every quarter of the Union are addrefling
the government, with offers ol their lives and
forcunes in support ot our measures against
France, the gentleman from Pennsylvania
wifties to take no measures for our security.
There is something very extraordinary in this.
But the young men of our country, poflefs a
different spirit; they are resolved to unite in
the,r country's cause ; and they will be able
effectually to prevent insurrections and in
ful- *rom taking place in the large cities,
which are most fubjeft to them.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania has
endeavoured to excite jealousy against these
volunteers in another nay, by insinuating an
idea that the reason cf the power of appointing
the officers of the f e corps being placed in the
Prefidentj is, because the present militia of
ficers cannot be trusted. This, Mr. A. said,
was not the truth ; nobody had such an idea.
But are'hefe men ready to offer their service ?
If they are, it is not known. If they do of
er then*fervice, there .s no doubt the Preli
dent will commiflion them. But the gentle- ■
man is not Willing that those who offer their
service fhoulu De relied upon, but that all
should be compelled to enter into the service,
whether they are willing or not. He thought
it was more generods to accept of voluntary
service only, which Mould be made exclu
ly by thofc who join heartily in the cause in
which we are engaged.
Mr. Macon said, the constitution had li
mited the railing out ot the militia to three
cases, viz, to execute the laws, suppress in
lwrrections, and repel invasions, and he could
not fee for what other purposes troops could
be wanted, or why the militia were not equal
to all these purposes. He witoied gentlemen
to speak plainly as to the purposes for which
these men are wanted.
1 he gentleman from S. Carolina said, that
if these corps were not organized, the French
would soon be here, and take the cash from
the Bankers and the produce and other pro
perty from the farmers. But how could these
youths resist any attack*, which the militia,
which would embrace not only them but all
other citizens, would nor be able to refill. As
to the spirit which that gentlemanfpoke of be
ing imparted to the youth by this law, he did
not believe if they wanted a spirit to defend
tiieir country, that this law would give it
them; but he was sure the spirit would not be
wanting, whenever danger appears.
Mr. M. noticed what had fallen from the
gentleman from S. Carolina, with respect to
members afting contrary to the wishes of their
constituents, and 'aid no confidcration should
ever prevent him from doing what appeared
to him to be his duty; and if he was convin
ced his constituents were diffutisfied with his
conduct, he would notwa.t to be turned out,
but would immediately relinquish li s feat.
Mr. M. never wished to fee such a f'yftem
of alarm etfifting in tins country as exjfted in
England and Ireland, lie never wished to
fee lpies andinformers riding about the coun-\
try totake people up on account of their po- ;
litical opinions. He should be glad to fee the
spirit of 1776 here, though he did not wish to
fee the old Congress revived. Ke believed
the old Congrels had done well,, but he be
lieved the present a better system os-govern
ment than thatwas.
The question had not yet been determined,
whether these corps were to be tonfidered in.
the light of militia qr regulars. If the form
er, i> had been shewn these young gentlemen
m : V join volunteer corps already in exift
encs ; and if the laf r cr, there wereal .vays re
cruiting officers wit?i v,*fiom they might enlifl;
but he d.d not believe many of them would
wifii to become common soldiers, though, in
all special cases, they would, he doubted not,
be ready to cotne for/ ard. But this has been
called a formidable force fur the suppression
of seditious insurrections, but he did not be
lieve it could be more so than the militia itfelf.
Mr. M. denied that Congress had the pow
er to create a mongrel kind of army such as
is now proposed. He called upon any gen
tleman to put his finger upon that part of the
constitution which gives Congress this autho
rity.
The provision which confines the use of
these corps to the fiate to which they belong,
and to the states adjoining, he said, would
prove a very unequal regulation, as some of
t hc states only join to two states, others to
sve.
. The gentleman from S. Carolina fays, that
armed allociations are the natural defence of
Republican Governments. He never believ
ed that this government depended upon arm
ed associations for support. It appeared to
him that these armed military alfociations
have more the of Jacobinism than
any thing he had ever heard of 111 that House.
Mr. M after ridiculing the do&rine Of a
larro set up by the gentleman from S. Caroli
na, concluded with faying that he believed if
the French were to land ir\ this country, they
would find very few persons to join them. He
was sure that from the part of the country
from whence he came that would be the safe.
The people in that part of the country would
very deeply regret a war, but if it did take
place of necclfity, they would join heartily in
it. If the constitution does not please them
in all refpetts, they know an armed force is
not the inftriament by which it ought to be
amended ; and he knew whatever a majority
determined upon, would by them be carried
into effett.
Mr. Dana said, he should not have risen
at all on this fubjett, had the gentleman from
Pennsylvania confined himfelf to the merits
of the question; but after rifingas monarch of
the opposition, and apologizing for having
spoken three times, because nobody else
ipoke, he said that the embodying of these
volunteers would beraifmga dangerous ftan
cing army, that it would be arming one part
of the citizens against another; that it would
prove the deftruclion of the militia, and that
the whole of the militia might become a part
of this army. He also fays tiie provision will
be useless, and because, under the militia
law, all the advantages proposed by this bill
might be had. Why then, he would ask, do
not these volunteers now exist? He appre
hended the true reason was, because the field
officers are appointed by the individual states,
and not by the President of the United States.
But it is said, this provision is useless, be
cause of the requisition of the 80,000 militia,
ordered at the last ffcflion. This, he said, had
been frequently mentioned, though nobody
would consider this force as any thing—it is a
mere business on paper. The men detached
do not know tl>eir own officers. Many of the
officers have been prymoted, and a number
of the men removed ; so that he did not sup
pose three-fourths of thole men could be
found, if called upon. They are ev.en worse
than nothing.
It is also said that these volunteers will
form a (landing army dangerous to liberty.
What do gentlemen mean by a fending army?
Do they make use of the term because they
find it in the constitution ? Or because, in
countries where armies are formed of the
word of men, where they are engaged for
life, and where their objedl is plunder and
rapine? Th« term (landing army only ap
plies where officers and men have views dif
tinft from the people, and can by no means
apply to the young men contemplated by this
fe£tion. If they were tejoin a banditti in
desolating the country, whose property would
they destroy ? Theii own, or that of their pa
rents or friends. And against whom tvould
they -turn their arms ? Against their parents,
their brethren and friends. And whose habi
tations would they destroy ? Those in which
they had been bred and educated. Can any
one believe then that evils of this kind can be
apprehended from these patriotic young men?
He thought they could not be entertained for
a moment.
In proportion as our military force is ex
tended, Mr. D. said, itlofes the charafterof
an army. An army of 10,000 men may have
something ofa spirit distinCt from the people ;
but if it is extended to 100,000, it will cease
to have that spirit; it will have only the spi
rit of the people. This is one of the causes
afligned by one of the best writers on the sub
ject of the French revolution, which produc
ed that spirit in the French soldiers wkich led
them to join in the revolution against their
monarch ; their numbers were so large that
there was infufed their body the spirit of
the people. But the gentleman from Penn
lylvania fays, the establishment of this corps,
will make an odious diftuiction between rich
and poor, as if that gentleman were the bul
wark of Sansculotifm. Was this intended to
excite a jealousy in the poor towards the rich,
and a spirit of hatred to the government ? If
not, he could not tell why such language was
used.
What are the advantages expefted to rcfult
from this fe&ion ? They are the admiflioq of
a body of patriotic, refpeftable, generous
youth, into the public service ; who will
form a firm phalanx against any internal or ex
ternal enemy. His ideas of this fe&ion were,
that the youth, which it contemplates will re
main liable to militia duty, both officers and
men, until called into the public service ; but
when called into public service, they will be
conlidered as troops of the United States.
The question upon striking out the fe>slion
was then put and negatived 56 to 37.
Adjourned at 5 o'clock.
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, sth June, '9B.
LETTERS for the Bririfh Packet, for
mouth, will be received at this office until Fri
day, the Bth inft. at 12 o'clock noon.
N. B. The inland postage to New-York mull
be paid.
Sale of Real Estate,
On Thursday evening next the 7th Jane at 7
o'clock in the evening at the Merchants Cof
fee-houfe ir. Second-street, will be fold at pub
lic aus ion,
A three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street
No. 31, between ad and 3d streets. The
house' is 1 In compfeat repair ao feet Front and the
lot extends B*> feet in depth with the privilege of
an alley Piaza of 13 feet 9 inches by ti feet, a
large convenient kitchen of 20 feet 9 inches by
T3 feet 6 inches and 2 story high—overthe kitch
en is a handfamc dining room'. The fire insur
ance on the premises is ;£Bco. extends to the 4th
December 1799? the estate isfubjedVto annual
payment of £s.—Pofltffion can be had in a ve
ry short time, and security given (if required)
to make the purchaler a complete litle —-the
terms of payment will be one third cash, one
third in.< 4 months and the remainder in one or
two years with interest and security.
FOOTMAh 1$ Co. auctioneers.
June 2 ftt
On FRIDAT next,
The Bth of Jun«, at 10 o'clock in the morning,
WILL BE SOLD,
At the late Dwelling House of Susannah M'Bow
ell, at the corner of Penn and Pine streets,
A VARIETY OF
Houfhold & Kitchen Furniture,
Among which are, a quantity of Feather Beds
and Bedding, silver Spoons, Wearing Apparel, and
a quantity of Tavern Utensils, &c. See.
CONNELLY & Co. Juaioneers.
may 31. *eo3t
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an«i Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countess of Lcicefter Packet, in the nth
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,
apd the Certificates supposed to be loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, (landing on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96.
Ten Shares stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, 1797.
For the renowal of wkich certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at tha Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 26, 1798.
2aw^m
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Yard*
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Wine,
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4
Now Opening,
At Wi lli a m M'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Tea Warehouse,
OPrOStTE THE POST-OFFICE.
THE Subscriber returns her sincere thanks for,
the rcneroua encouragement (he has experien
ced since her commencement in business, begs leave
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that she has
received a frefh supply of all kinds of Tea from the
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her
conflant enpeavour to merit their future support.
She is in daily expectation of receiving a large sup
ply of good Coffee.
x SARAH EATON,
may 30 tusclßt
Dr. MAtfviACTOir at the Hovse cf EuTLOYMtur for one year commencing lslh Match, j
1797, and ending 25th of March, 1798. Cr. I
No. I.
1797. 1798. !
March To raw materials & manu- March By manufa&ued good** fold 53! 15 9 '
35 fa&uredgoods foundon hand 35 Bydo.confumed in the house 375 14 10} |
this day. 351 16 t By raw materials and man
-1795, f ufa&uresremainingonhand 428 i© 8\
March To raw materials &c. pur
-15 chafed since. 713 19 a
To balance being the profit
of the Manufactory. 277 5 9$
£*343 * ♦ £*343 * 4
No. 11. >
Dr. The silms-Houfe and House of Employment for Expenditures of that InJiitAion from j
2sth March, 1797» t0 2 5' A March, 1798. Cr.
To amount paid for provisions pur- By amount received for board of
chafed 7119 a(\ pay patients 3*4 15 8
To amount paid for cloathing 1490 5 6 By amount expended in alterations
do do for fuel 1258 18 6 an repairs of the House 381 a a
do do for rrtedirines 470 6 a By balance being thea&ual amount
do do for raw materials expended for the support of the
for manufacturing 713 19 a paupers maintained as per num-
To incidental expences, compre- ber stated in No. 3. 13352 o 8^
heading falanes of Steward, Mat
ron, Nurl'es for the Sick & Door-
Keepers—also repairs for the House,
Candles, Oil, Stationary, House
and Kitchen Furniture, Funeral
charges, &c. 1997 6 7
£14049 18 6 i £14049 18
No. 111.
Number of Poor maintained in the Alms-House and Honfe of Employment of Philadelphia,
from 2stb ef March, 1797, /o
,1797. Men Women Children Total
In the month of April 174 325 54 453
May 168 an J4 433
* ' June 171 ao9 50 430
July 183 aiß • 39 440
August 188 *l3 , "8 439
September 183 _ 105 37 425
October 187 207 56 45®
November 208 236 70 514
December 36a 370' 87 619
1798. January 27a 28* 9a 649
'February 376 284 88 648
March 351 367 78 596
253 3 2830 743 6096
Bring on an average conflantly > 2K) JC B Persons
in the house during the lalt year )
During the present year 1300 perftns fully clothed from the alms-ho-ife. Of the per
sons received into the house, 263 werefick, of whom were cured and discharged 147 —45 died
and the remainder 71 still in the house.
No. 1111.
Dr. General Account of Receipts and Expenditures for the maintenance of the Poor in the
city of Philadelphia the diflriß of the Northern Liberties and the diflrift of Southward x
for one year commencing the 2sth of March, 1797, and et \:ng the 2sth of March, 1798,
comjrifing all the persons employed and maintained in the Alms House and House of Employ
ment and relieved in the city and diftrifis by the guardians of the Poor. Cr.
To balance due the treafurerfrom By amount of monies borrowed
last year 84 17 from the bank of Pennsylvania
To amount of orders on treasury on the managers notes difcount
unpaid when the last account ed to be paid in the present year 1500
was fettled 1394 .7 4$ By ba'anceof lalt year ir. the hands
To amount of accounts parted for of the steward 14 19 1
payment by the steward, also By cash received per treasurer for
unpaid at the fame time 15 13 3 taxes, —viz.
To amount of expenditures for For 1795 60 8 1
alms-house, fee account No. 3. 14,349 18 6$ 1796 5514 a 9
To amount paid for the support 1797 8357 10 11 z 3»9 21 1 9
of the out door poor by the "/ By manufactures fold 538 9
city board of Guardians for By ditto consumed in the house 375 14 jo
pensions, temporary relief,phy- By cash received for fines and for
-1 fician bills and for support of feitures. 135 iS 9
Orphans and illegitimate chil- By cafti found in the charity boxes ai 7' 1 o
dren 4607 13 7\ By do. received for hay and bar-
To balance in the hand? of the ley fold 31 81
treafnreo 91 79! ,By cash on account of ground rents 73 11 4
*To balance in the Hands of the l)y do. for board of pay patients 314 15 8
steward 1 ' '348 10 a By dp. for Baitardy Jury fines &c. 479 4 a
By this fumreceived of John Gar
dner and James Oldden being a
. u •;« . . : farplus from the funds collect
, 1 ; f. - ed for the poor iu tents paid
over to purchase .wood 263 10
* N. B. The above balance mt!H? By thh sum received of Godfrey
ftevfard's bandsy appeals thus Haga and James Todd a corn
large in coafeqiifcnce of orders mittee of the SeledV and Com
on the treasury, ifthis favor* 1 mon Councils to be applied to
being unpaid. the purchase of wood 90 7 8
By amount of orders on the trea
sury not yet presented for pay
: - ment 3716 10 1
By amount of orders pafl*ed for
payment by the steward also
unpaid 15 *9
£30493 7 9 £30492 7 9
Settled by the Beard, Philadelphia May 13/98. Examined approved and allowed, May 16, *9B.
Peter Miercken Hilary Baker, Mayor
Standifb Forde I Robert Wharton ) ...
Ge6rge Plumftrd [ raa " s f ! James Ash, \ Aldermen,
Benjn. Hornerjunr f * c - Jacob Servofs }
William Yardly j a ms * ou c * Jos. Cowperthwait > Juflices &c,
Isaac W. Morris J Joseph Marlh \
gj* Note. Those expenditures include 1716 dollars 37 cents amount of account rendered by
the Managers of the Pennsylvania Hospital for the support of sundry paupers sent into that house.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Saunas
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
1 Tickiries Baftas
Romalls Cofias
Doreas v Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajjortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Merdccai Lewis,
may aj. daw 3aw aw
NOW LANDIAG,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
88 calks CLARE r
7» do. do. of a superior quality
a trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut-street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
White Wine in half Calks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
boxes and baskets
Lunelle Entitled to
Sauterne / [Drawback.
Irish Market V WINES in Cases I
Macarty and 1
Medcc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
mar ap. eodtf
WANTED,
Approved Bills on London,
FOR which cafli will be paid at par. Enquire
of the Calhier of the Bank of the United States.
June 5 4 §
TO LET, ~
The House No. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in goed repair, and a capital Stand for any
liini of bufinaf*. Apply as above,
june j. • § |
Military Academy.
THE Public are most refpedfully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Masters, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6oth Britilh regiment of Foot and
afliftant Engineer to the Army atSUng in the
. Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
I Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-commissioned of
ficers and privare soldiers in camp, garrifonand
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rosters &c. &c alio the
art of drawing plans, and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
seen. The situation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
N. Q. Gentlemen from the Country boarded
ill the house if required.
ma y lO ' • diwiawim
To be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofitc the wharf an the rivtr De
laware,
A Large new two (lory brick Houfc, and Lot
lixty icet in front and one hundred deep
The House consists of two large parlours, one 17
by 11, the other 19 hy 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
well finiftied garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, flore
room, See. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well fiaiflied and in perfefl order.
Immediatee pofleflion will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and Ihew the
prcnufes. may 14 jtaaw
Tor's ale,
At the Store of Jesse & Roiet Waln,
On Spruce street Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds.&qr.cafks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes a( xceUant Madeira Wine
may 16. eats I
X!tf <s>asette»
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Junb 7.
At a meeting of the citizens residing in the
town of Cumberland, in the county of
Allegany ard slate of Maryland, and its
vicinity, held on Friday, the 2 J(h flay of
May, 1798, after due notice; Ilanfon
Biifcoe was appointed Chairman, and
Fatrick Murdoch, John H. Bayard Sa
muel Selby 3d, John Simkins and George
Dent were named a Committee, to draw
up and report an address to the President
of the United States, on the pref-nt criti
cal situation of our country with France.
The fame day the committee reported ail
address as follows :
To JOHN ADAMS,
President of the Unit«d States.
THE inhabitants of th«- county of
Allegany and slate of Maryland, having
early discovered, in an uneqnivocal manner,
their decided approbation of the govern
ment of their country, and the measures of
its adminitlration, and on every public op
portunity since having evinced the fame
principles with unabated zeal and inprjafing
unanimity, we do not imagine that we can
be fufpefted of improper motives if we have - t
notprefled forward on this occasion. While
our fellow-citizens, then, were expressing
that zeal and indignation which animates
every American bosom at the unheard of
insults and injuries which the Republic of
France has heaped on the government and
people whom yow represent, we have fuf
fered those to take the lead, many of whom
were (low to believe and have now but lately
discovered that a cool and insulting con
tempt of the laws which bind nations could
exist underthe sacred but abused names of
Liberty and a Republic.
Now that the croud has in some measure
past, permit US, Sir, to renew our aflurances
of our rooted attachment to the constitution
and government of our country, and of our
relpeft and veneratian for yourfelf second
only to that which ws mull ever feel so*
your truly dignified Predeceflbr in whofc
steps you so worthily tread, of our abhor
rence of all foreign influence upon our coun.
cils, of our disdain of the threats thrown
out against us by France, and of our indig
nation at tb< insolent idea that it is poflible
that Americans can be divided against them,
selves.
We feel as we ought the cpnduft o£
. France towards us, and we pledge ourselves
to support the measures which the councils
of our country (hall deem nece(fary for the
security and defence of our national rights,
honor, and independence, against the en
croachments orattacksof anyforeign power-
Which being read was afTented to, and
ordered that a copy of this address be for
waided to George Baer, jun. Esq. our Re
presentative in Congress, to be by him
presented to the President.
HANSON BRISCOE, Chairman.
To the Inhabitants of the county of Allegany,
ia the Jlate of Maryland.
YOUR steady attachment to the consti
tution of the government of your country,
is greatly to your honor.
The veneration you express for my truly
distinguished PredecefTor, is a worthy and
neceflary effeft of that attachment, and yonr
compliment to me, for treading in his steps,
does me honor.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 2d, 1798.
A number of refpeftable citizens of Wa(h
ington county, in the date of Maryland,
having convened in consequence of public
notice, at the Court-house in Hager's
Town, on Monday the 2ill day of May,
1798, after appointing General Thomas
Sprigg Chairman, relolved as follows,
viz
WISHING to cultivate peace and har
mony with a'l nations, we feel great regret
at the delay in the reception of our Envoys
to France, and think their million of such
magnitude as to have entitled them to a
propc attention; and as it appears highly
important at this crisis of our national af
fairs that our fentiraents (hnuld be made
known, we do not hesitate to declare our
firm determination to iupport our conilitu
tion, government and independence against
every attack.
Resolved, That the Chairman be 'equeft
ed to transmit a copy cf the above refolvc to
the Representative of this diftrift iij Con
gress, with a requtft that he communicate
the fame to the President, the Senate, and
the House of Reprefint-tives of the United
States.
Signed br order,
THOMAS SPRJGG. Chairman.
Elie Williams, Secretary.
To a number of reJjbeSalle Citizens of Wajh
ington county.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK yoii for the refutation you
adopted at Hager's Town on the firft day
of May, which has been presented to me
by Mr. Baer, your Representative ni Con
gress, to support your constitution, go
vernment and independence against every
attack.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 2d, 1798.
At a very numerous meeting of Ihelln
habitants of the Lower Diflrift of Washing
ton county, held at Sharpftjurph, the ißch
May. 1798, the following resolutions were
unanimously agreed to, and ordered to be
published.
1 ft. Resolved, That we hold party spirit
a reproach, and that in defence of our rights
as freemen, we (hall ever aft as one maa, ani
mated by one foul, and that, any foreign
nation is mistaken in the American ehara&trwhich fuppofea ie capable of divifioA upon
great national,qneftioos, on which its inde
pendence is involved, and that upon this
fubjetS our ground is taken and our opinions
long fixed.
2. Resolved, that the adminifliation of
our President, John Adams, is hitherto
worthy of our applause and confidence,
and that we do express them to him, in lan
guage that shall bind ur to support the A
-1 merican Government.
1 2.|Refolved, That' ve think ourselves
* much indebted to our three lad Envoys to
France, and that we highly approve b.'th of
the inftrufiions which they received, and of
the and judicious manner in which
they have conduced themselves in the per
formance of their duty.
4. Refo'ved, That our Chairman he re
queded to inclose these resolutions accom
panied with a short address, to the Repre
sentative of our Didrift in Congress, to be
by him presented to the President of the
United States.
THE ADD ESS
Of the inhabitants of the Lower Didrift of
Washington County, aflembled at
Sharpftturgh.
To JOHN ADAMS,
fPrefdcnt of the Untied States.
S2R,
W El feel happy in congratulating our fel
low citizens of the United States, upon the!
unanimity of spirit, w, ich, in such firm lan- i
t'uage, and on so upng anoccafion bespeaks
their refolutioii to preserve inviolate, lhat '
independence, which thev have so bravely
fought for, and so glorionfiy attained. 1
We d fire to offer to you, our unbounded
applause, for the wifdo-m and spirited deci- !
fion, which have hitherto so eminently dif
tingu:fhed your adminiitration, and we trud 1
that yoar future coi dtnS and ability will do j
jnftice to the manly expreffi n of the people !
and to the high tXpedations, which the j
energy of the government, hath induced
them to form. Shall the proud republic of
France, attempt 10 pluck from the brow of j
Columbia, the laurels, which her gallant
k fon« have planted th- re ! 'or shall any foreign
intrigue rob us, of what we have purchased
with our blood .' No Sir! Since the supreme
disposer of humau evtnts, to whose provi
dence we owe our present happiness, hath
been pleaftd to bless us with the rights of
freemen, we are unanimously resolved to de
fend them, a- d are prepared to succeed or
perish in the eonflia. Be to us an Aridides,
of whose adm nidration no man complained
and who l ever permitted any part of the
I publia treatury to be exhauded in vain, and
we cn our parts, desire you to accept of our
bed services, which we exult in unanimou/ly
offering towards the support of our govern
ment ; with an humble confidence that we
shall not be foand wanting, on the day of '
trial 1
JOSEPH CHAPLINE, Chairman.
To the inhabitants of the Lower Didrift of '
Washington County, ir. the date of '
Maryland. 1
gentlemen;
I,return with pleafnre your congratulati- ' '
ors upon the unanimity of spirit, among 1
our fellow-citizens, which in so firm language ! 1
expreffestheir resolution to preserve inviolate ! 1
theii independence, and thank you for your ! 1
generous applause. ! c
Your 11 anurous resolution, to defend the ! '
rights of freemen, or perifii in the conflict '
is heroic an glorious t
1 can* ot promise you an adminidration of c
which no man shall cumplain, unless you '
wj ! .iwerme, 'hat no man in this queru- 1
lons age, will complain of truth, libei ty c
arid humanity. I can however assure you, c
that n.> pa-t of the public trea ury, shall be '
exhauded knowingly, and willingly in vai'n. n
fOHN ADAMS. ''
Philadelphia, Junel, 1798. n
•
30 tons of Lignum Vitffi, f l
nicklinVgriffith. w
ji'e 7 tuthitf "
FOR SALE, t(
800 pieces of Sail Cloth °
10 tons of ?he«t Lead ,
Apply to 1
Rithard D. Ardcn,
No. a 6, North Front ftrtet. ] e
iu"e 7 $ ju
Lodgings Wanted. | U]
A YOUNG MAN of good chara\ster, who j Ct
keeps regular hours, wishes to be accommo- ;
dnted with lodgings in a private family, in some
healthy J>art of the city. A line direAed to W. th
and left at the office of this Gazette, will be at- a J ;
tended tn. June 7 3t co
A Sloop for Sale, th
VIRGINIA BUILT, di;
About two and an half years an
—burthen 31 tons, fails fait,
and is well found.—Enquire of
Thomas & JoJhua Fjjber t m<
No. j, Dock Street, so
6 roo. yth §IW J
A FEW COPIES OF A 1
The Last Dispatches, th /
1 or
From the American Envoys at Par : 6, and a few
«f thole laid before Congrefs,ton the 3d ol Aprij
and 4fh of May, may be had at rhi« Office.
Six Cents Reward.
am
RAN awiy from the Subscriber v the 6th June •
a bound Boy about 12 years old, he an- •
fwcF6 to e rtamc of Henry Brown, or H Wan- tIV
dergr fT, wl oever brings hjm to me receive ex<
the abpve rewaid but no charges paM.
T/jos. Wet befell. by
jnne 7 If3t
, ——
TO SOLD, LET, ClC|
Or exchanged for property in the city of j t ,
Philadelphia. t
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot r
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the r Y'
county of Montgomery. Th.e house is in good 1
repair, and the lot made into a irfeftil garden ; ll P f
tliere are a number of good fruit trees therein, the
?he fitoafiirn s high ind healthy and ore of the
best for any kind of business in the town, pof- v
1 On.-a will be given immediately—for terms ap- ancl
P'y 'o • IfiUlam Nichols cad
AV /17, RaceJlreef. as p
. way v) . . *j cda
18
of PHILADELPHIA,
e, THURSDAY EVENING, June 7.
SIR,
The Governor dire&s me totranfmit to you, co
fs pics of a letter, directed to each Brigade Infpeitor
to of'the Pennsylvania Militia, and inclosing an Ad
nf drrfsto the Officer* of the refpeflive Brigades;
of which you will be pleafcd With all poffi -Ie dispatch
tu circulate.
He dire.fl! me, likewise, to take this opportunry
r " to enforce the ueceiliry on your part of an immedi
ite and flrnfl attention to the general organization
g. of themiliria ; hut, more particularly or the (late
quota of the draft of Bo.coo, direded by the ail
of Congress.
Upon these fuhje<sU, and upon any other, that
>e can promote the objeift contemplated by the Gov
ie ernor's Adc!re!» to the militia, he requellsthe ;!ri<ft
efl communicati.n of all the information that you
receive. I am, Sir,
Yourmoft obedient servant,
r A J DALLAS,
Secretary of the Commoniucaltb.
Secrotary's Ofhce, Philadelphia, ">
Jul: ;, 1798. j
To Josi a h Harm -K, Adjutant General of the'
Mintia of Pennsylvania.
. sr Ri ' /
The governor direfls me to transmit to you
e ) the inelofcd copies of an address ro the officers
1- i of you- Brigade j and to request lhat you will
s call . general meeting, that its objefts may be
t 1 taken into conlideration, and the mod effe<Sual
• rnezUnadopted for at ainingthem, without toft of
: time. It will be proper to invite the grneril of
j the division to attend the meeting.
J j You will be plea r ed to make an early and ac
- curate report of your proceedings :o the gover
- nor. / amSir,
I J Your most obedient humble fern)ant.
3 | (Signed) JQSIAH HARM AR,
. | Adjutant General.
a 1 To Lewis Nichola, Elq.
• 1 Brigade Infpe<flor of the Philadelphia city
1 B of Militia.
fj {CIRCULAR.)
1 ■ GENTLEMEN,
J THE existing crisis in the affairs of the
Union, djmands the serious attention of ev
«ry friend to the independence, honor, and
fafety, of our country. •
1 T-obliterate the fenfeof gratitude, which
was cherished for services rendered by France,
] during our conflift with Great-Britain ; to
extinguilh the entl ufiafm, which was inlpi
' red by her firft revolutionary movements, in
favuur of Liberty ; and to convert the phy- 1
fical and political sources of reciprocal at
tachment between the two Republics, into '
sentiments of hoftility;—are effe&s that can
only find an adequate cause, in the system '
ofviole»ce and depredation, of injustice add I
contumely, by 'which the Government of i 1
that nation has, recently, d fgraced its own '
character, and violated our rights.
It is no longer, however, ufeful to reason ; 1
nor honorable to repine: It has been, au- '
thoritatively, announced, that our govern- (
mentjis compelled to relinquish every hope of !
Peace, and to prepare for the painful alter
native of war. The Constitution of the '
United States has devolved upon the de- c
| partments of the Federal Government, the ■
j power and the duty to provide forthecom
i mon defence; but the power and the duty c
iof co-operation, so as to facilitate and ef- C
j fefluate their meafiires, are, likewise, con- C
ftitutionally attached to the jurifdi&ion t.f ,
the individual States ; and form, indeed, an
essential part of the charafter and capacity, °
of every citizen of ttti Union. Upon this r
impulse, and with this view, then, I have - V
circulated the present Address : And, lam J
confident, Gentlemen, tlfat while the na- j
tional authority is anxiously engaged, in
making general for executing
its arduous trust, the Militia of Pennsylva
nia, will not omit any point cf preparation,
which can evince the promptitude of their °
spirit, and the ardor of their patriotism. ''
In addition, therefore, to the provisions
which have been made by Congress, it re
mains, for the purposes of national defenee,
to pursue efficient measures for enrolling, '
organizing and equipping the great body •
of the Militia ; but, lam so fenfibleof the !"
defefls of the existing 1 w, that I should
defpairof success, if (independent of every
legifiative provision) my experience did not
juftify me in reposing a perfeil confidence,
upon the voluntary exertions of every offi
cer, and of every freeman, at a period so in- t h
to the public welfare. Permit me,
therefore, Gentlemen, to call upon you, in T)
the mod earned manner, to unite, with
alacrity and zeal, in the service of your
country ; and, let it always be remembered, rn:
that to protest her from insult, outrage and
dishonor, is to ensure your own happiness, llr
and to elevate your own charafter. P r
The objefts peculiarly deserving your im
mediate attention, may be included in the 1
following fummrfy propositions.
lft.LetthequotaotPennfylvania, underthe m;
Aft of Congress direfling a draft of eighty I XJ
thousand men to bu made from the militia 1 vo
of the United States, be put into fiich or- | ca
der, as will ensure a punftual and general bv
attendance, at a moment's whrnlpg. Eve- j e ,
ry man, who can supply himftlf with arms ' on
and accoutrements, should do so, upon a I
principle of public spirit, as well as of pofi- | m;
tive duty. The legal days of mufler and i t hi
excrcife should be regularly obfei vtd ; and tin
;very citizen should employ his lei fit re time wl
by improving himfelf in military discipline. a d
2d. Let the enrollments in every Brigade
ne immediately compleated, aiul all vacan- by
:ies of Commissioned Officers be supplied. Sti
It would be highly expedient to form a com- tel
>etent number of a volunteer corps of Caval- ter
y, Infantry, and Artillery, to he attach-, d
o the refpeflive Regiments and Battalions ■ rec
ipon the principles of thefecond Seiilion of of
he Militia Aft. nie
3d. Let the number of citizens enrolled,
nd the (late of the arms and equipments in by
ach Brigade, be accurately reported as soon to
s possible. Ihe Legislature has author:* • dai
d a coniid rable purchase of arms for pub- to
lie lift ; and no time (hall be loft inprocu
ring'thcm.
I am aware, gentlemen, that much trau
= ble and expence will urife in the execution
of these in'triwfUons ; but, lam persuad
ed that your personal labors will be compen
sated by the public benefit which they will
7* produce ; and I prgmife, at the next fef:
fion of the legislature, ts"enforce the claims
for a r-iinburfement of every reasonable
, co- P ec ""iary charge, with the Itrongeft re
eitor commendation, that the juilice and necelfity
Ad- of the cafe will admit,
la-ch * cannot conclude this address, without
JIC reminding every class of my fellow citizens
inry the importance of its objefts. To the
iei!i Veterans, who were active in our revolu
tion tionary war, it will not be indifferent, when
reflect, t'fat the fame patriotic v rtues
which ellablifhed our Nation al Indepjn
that ' d£ nce, will always be competent to pro-
Sov-I test our national rights. The rising
ri&- ; generation from the present crisis, an
J ou early opportunity ro prove, that they are
worthy of that glorious inheritance, a Free
> Rt publican GpvEitNiv!, nt, which has
fj, been prepared for them by the courage and
wifdem of their ancestors. And every en
. lightened ftattfman will surely rejoice,when
ft c he beholds in thi militia of thi- v
n i on, a competent bulwark for its defence
and Ufety ; —fuperfeding the ncceffity, and
you averting the darget t f a numerous Handing
:ers army.
will I am, with sincere regard and esteem,
r b e Gentlemen, your mod obedt. and faithful
! ua > servant,
Jof (Signed) THOS. MIFFLIN.
Philadelphia, 2d June, 1798.
JC- 'he officers of the Philadelphia city
ir cr . brigade of Pennsylvania militia
CONGRESS.
1 . Yesterday the House of Representatives of
ral ■ the United States, was engaged mod of the
day in difculTing the amendments agreed to in
: "y Committee of-the whole onthe bill to regu
late the compensation of Officers employed in
the collection of the Internal Revenues of the
United States, and to provide for the moreef
feflual settlement of their accounts. It wasat
, length agreed to; and ordered to be read a
third time to morrow. Mr. Harper called
ev " up tha resolutions which he yesterday laid
nd upon the table, proposing certain amend
ments to the law providing for the raifinc of a
ch Provisional Army, and for other purposes,
ce which were referred (after some observations
* from Mr. M'Dowell against the reference,
and from Mr. Harper in reply) to the Com-
P>- mittee for the protection of Commerce and
in for the defence of the Country, to report by
iy. bill or otherwise, 40 votes to 37. Mr. D.
Jt . Foster laid the. following resolutions upon
. the table, viz.
an WHEREAS the French Republic, re
,m gardlefa of those principles of good faith
n() which ought to ensure a due observance of
£ treaties, have, in various inftancei, violated
Vll the express .Imputations of the treaties here
tofore made and fubfilling between the Uni
n . ted States and, the French nation, in a man
' ner highly injurious to the interest and honor
of the Unitted States ; by reason whereof <
of the United States are released from all ob
r ligation on their part to refpeft the said
treaties, or to consider themselves as holden
1 or bound thereby. 1
1,. Resolved, That it Is expedient to make a
n legislative declaration notifying the citizens '
* of the United States, and all others con
£ cerned, that the said treaties are no longer
n " obligatory upon the United States. '
, f Refolded, That provision ought to J
in be made by law, authorizing the PrVlident \
of the United States to grant letters of i
'7' marque and reprisal against all (hips & other t
veflels, with their cargoes, found on the f
high seas, failing under the authority of the '
French Republic, or belonging to the said 1
Republic, 01 any of the citizens thereof, or J
itsdependencies—to continue and be in force
£ until the French government (hall revoke and
annul the orders and decrees authorizing the (.
.' capture artd detention of the veflels and pro
lr perty of the citizens of the United States, j,
contrary to the laws of nations. (•
Resolved, That provision ought to be
" made by law granting a bounty, in propor
tion to the fizeand number of guns, on all, j
• armed veflels (which (hall be taken and bro't
f into any of the ports of the United States) c
• belonging to the republic of France, or to H
any of the citizens thereof, or of its de
£ pendencies—or to others failing under the j
authority, or pretence of authority, from
' the said republic.
They were ordered to lie upon tha table till
" this day. r
> a
1 The following are the refutations proposed by Mr. a
1 Harper on Tuesday laji.
r Resolved, That provision ought to be
( made by law, for enabling the President of tl
1 theUnitcd States to appoint and commission, ~
> immediately, all such offi ers ashe may judge f,
proper, for raising, organising, andcom.nand- n '
ing such volunteer corps ; such officers to p
. receive no pay. or other emoluments, till cal-
led i to adtual service.
Resolved, That provision ought to be c
; made by law foi enabling Ihe President of the
r j United States to foppiy such of the said ~
> ! volunteers as mybe in need thereof, with , j
" I cannon, small annsand accoutrements, either t <
' by faie or loan, as he may judge molt exped- t j
• j ient—and under regulations to be eltablilhed t \
' on that ftibjeO. w
1 I Re/ohed, '1 hat provision ought to be 01
• I made by law, for enabling the President of
' i the United Stales,to eltablilh regulations for .j
1 the government of the said volunteer corpj,
when ordered on military duty, but Bot in
aftual service.
Rtfolved, That provision ought to be made Cl
by law, f.ir enabl «g the President of United fl ;
States to appoint and commiflion, immedia- tr
tely, all officers necessary for the armcy of -p
ten thousand men, provided for by the firfl t [,
leftion of the aforefaid aft ; such officers to al
' receire no pay or emoluments, till the raising t ] s
of the said army (hall have aftually been com- vc
mcnccd.
a in
Mamcd on Friday evening:, the 25th nit. of
by the rev. 'ihos. Uftick, Mr. A. Stewart, vc
to Mrs. Margaret Robinson ; ar.d on Mon.. an
day evening, the 28th ult. Mr. John Alcn, th
to Miss Miza 1 ennington, all of this city. U
■ . > i * • /
u - ADDRf SS,
To the Freemen of the City and Liberties of Ph.
U- ladflph a, above the age of forty five
3 „ CkKTL 2ME N, J '
, EY ourcxitting militia law, you are exemr
t<«i from military duty. TVhardlhiptof a cami
"* nr . thc fa'igoM of long marches, might with pre
ill flpety oe confidtred too severe for many of you t
•f: engage in ; yet, there arcfervices at home w*iief
ns "" h E r ? at Propnety, mny be assumed by yo.
le r " T , '' ou c "j°y eonftitutiont, aflivit
')f horiy, and exoerience in life : many of y» :
e- have fcrved your.country in the revolutionary wai
ty and some of you in the war of 1756 and 176]
between Great Biitair. and PrjFee, when the lat
ut ,ter attempted to conquer and fulijugate these ftatei
(then colouies of Great Brirjin) to her haught'
and ambitious views, and laid wade your fron
ie tierj from Maffachuf'-tts to Georgia by fire am
1- sword, thefcalping knife and romahawk. To fuel
;n of you a«- remember (he calamities of that war
og and Ihe ftvage barbarity with which it was cm
' the , and t' eif left ravage allies
—I need not fuggefr tp you the cruelties to he an
0- rrcheneed from that nation ,(heuld they invade thi
'g «vtedl and happy country. Their part and recem
in conduit 10 the orinjr nations which the}
re fii ft duped by their fa lacies and then subjugated bj
their powtr—Th'ir wflrfe than savage treatrr.enl
■ E <.f their own citiz ns. condemned by thousands tc
as the bayonet, the cannon the guillotine or ,'rown.
,d ing in roaf., w' : rhont diOinflion of age or icx.snd
a- without the form of trial, cr e*ili-d to (Wart
cbmes for n,p known offence ; these tranfaSions
are fully known to you and to the world. This
reHlefs, haughty, ambitious nation.now infultsyou,
:e piratically takes your veff-is, dertroys yonr com
id merce, cndnvorshy etnifliriesamongft u«to sepa
rate the good people of these ftatc from a eonfi.
dcnce in our executive, insults 6ur eove-nmtnt
through our milliners at their court feat !orthe ex
)» press purpefe of rertoring harmotiy hy ju.l negoci
il ation,and menaces us with invasion and fuhjugat on.
Yonr Sons ambitious of pnferving that happy
government, which your valor hath procured for
them, :tc afTociating 11, .-.rmsto repel invasion Our
militia as well as they, may he marched to a dif
tailt part of the union. Their wive; and children
mult, in that necefiity, be committed to your pro
teflion and care Th« preferva ion of the peace
anJ good order of thc city and libertie. must de
is volve on you, under the direction of the civil po
. ,c *- shouki eternal commotion arise, w ,|| ; t „ot
be prudent and proper to alTociatc yourselves fpr
those laudable purposes ? J» Q provide yoKrfelves
' with arms ? And to choose virtuous and wife citi'
«n» from among yourselves as officers to direct
those salutary views ? You have many veteian of
- ficers who served with honor to themselves and
t their country last war, and are yet able to perform
f Efrrifon duty. They will no doubt undertake the
1 philanthropic talk. An affociatipn of this fort
1 would give confidence to ycur son» in arms, spirit
- to your militia, fecutity and comfort to theirwives
1 and children, and consolation to the aged and in
, firm, as well as support to the wisest and b-ft of
i governments. AN OLD SOLDIER.
MR. FENNO,
I Thfcre are a number of refpeflable citizens
' and inhabitants of Philadelphia, from their ad
vanced age no longer liable to Militia duty, yet
1 able in this time of trial, to do good service to
their country, by forming a corps for the fafe
th® c ' t y* Thf advantages that rnuft
arile from the formation of such a corp"fc are ob
■ viousj citizens of the above description are re
qnfled to take this hint into their serious con
n deration. "
c Tr* r* s '" / rom t ' le House of Representatives,
for Appending all intercourse between France
and the United States, palled,the Senate this
day, 18 ayes, 4 nays.
*
Out of 21,000 votes given in for Go
vernor at the late eleaion in MalTachnfetts,
his Excellency Increase Sumner had up
wards of 17,000. Mr. Sumner, all the
world knows, is a decided Federalist.
We are anthorifed to fay that the observation
imputed to Mr. Otis, in the Aurora of this
morning was not made by that gentleman. He
never advocated an addition to the salaries of all
public officers; but merely rf-thofe employed
in the principal depar'ments. It is also knpwn
to every member of the house that when the bill
for the conrpenfuion of certain officers wh'ch
includ.d an addition to the salaries of the Secre
tary of the Senate and Clerk of the house, wai
pending, Mr.Otis took no part in the debate, but
withdrew and did not vote upon the quest on.
Three houses in Race-ltreet were struck
by the lightening yesterday afternoon. The
big Mercury, lying below l'ine-ftreet, had
her foremaft Ihivered by a .stroke at the
fame time.
General Huntingdon, colle&or of New-
London diftrift, has receiveddiretffions from
his excellency Gov. Trumbull, to cause fix
cannon to be mounted on thc fortifications
of that harbour,
Particulars of the Evacuation of Port au
Prince, L'Archaye, (jfc.
Previous to the evacuation of these pla
res general Maitland, commander in chief'
at St. Domingo iflued on the 20th of April,
a Proclamation, to this effedt.
" s Britannic Majesty having thought
5t expedient (for the good of his service) to
traoiport his land and sea forces from one
part of the colony to the other, general
Maitland in consequence of the order of his
majesty informs the inhabitants of Port-au-
Prince that he means to evacuate the pro
vince of the weft, but a necessary time will
be granted to citizens of all clafles, who may
chufe to follow the Englilh army, to dif
pnfe of or bring away their moveable pro
pe ty. not even excepting their (laves ; at
(lie fame time he aflures them that he has
taken such sure and precautionary measures
that neither those who follow the army or }
tWe who remain bsln'nd, (hall be in any
way disturbed or molelled in their perf«ns
or property."
In consequence of the latter aflurance on
the part of general Maitland nearly one half i
of the inhabitants determined to remain j 1
whe e they were.
On 'he 7th of May, the town was eva- J
cuated by a part of the citizens and their *
slaves. On the Bth it was evaluated by the
troops of the line, by way of Fort Bizoton.
The evening of the fame day, the troops of
th£ French republic, took poffeflion of Port- 1
au-Princc, which illuminated during 1
the whole night, and in view of the con
voy, which failed the next morning, form
ing a fleet of 136 fail, exclulive of the /hips
of the line and frigatus. A part of the con
voy arrived the fame evening at St. Marc, !
and after taking on board the greater part of ■
the .troops, ant! particularly all the cavalry,
f«t fail for Jcremie. The remainder of the
; convoy arrived at the Mcle on the morn In*
"'hi- of the 12th.
j The evacuation was conduced with tlid
up- g rfateft order as well at Port-an Prince S3
mpj at Archaye, Croix dts BoUquers and St.
,ro- Marc General 'Maitland had taken the
»to wisest precautions, and had even caused 15
| rh > complete rations for every white and slave
dry t4> be provided and put oil board the vessels,
C®u On the 20th of May, General Touffainfc
'ar, sent a cartel to St Nichola Mole to retjueft
63, that General Maiiland, (fin.ee he would not
permit any American veflM to enter Port*
lity' ' J>r j" ce ) would fend him dry goods in
on- Enghfh vessels. He also requefttd hiffl td
m,l caufefuch (persons who had followed the!
ich Enghfh army) as were indebted to those
T? had rema ' ned at Port-au-Prince, to pay
ics, r "' :11 " debts ; jjnd on hin part he etigaged to
in- do 'he fame with refpe& to those at Port
hi, au-Prince wfio were indebted to any pet<
:nt sons at the Mole, or at Jeremie.
hy
7 THE STROP PUFFXRS.
Ftrfl Hopkins came with drops so good,
ta They fav'a at leal! a world of blood i
A razor fct on ihefe fame drops, )
nd Would so completely smooth your chops, >
tr-t You'd bid adieu 10 barber's (hops. \
ins But ah ihis mod. ft wight we find,
his I In puffiing is left far behind ;
>u, Buy Pack wood's strops—he does maintain, ")
r»- They'll make a razor cut so clean, V
1a- ! Your beard will never grow again*
fi-'j . Whim 1
nt j 1
j-; port of Philadelphia'.
n. ' 01.■ rt AR<IVED. Day?,
Ship Johanna, Boggs, Ifl. , f M
or ichr H J rrw '. Georct.'jwn S C 6
«r :. . S, £>'' I"),:' '■ Frederi.kfburgh 5
if. Schr. Pol.y, fiirafer, FaffnaqutfdV 18
en ; Sloop Induflry. Smith, Baltimore 7
°" ! Prom tl,e Fort,
" I Sh?P Harmony Willington, J. im3 ; ca
o _ Schr. Ranger, Greer, Ha.anna
ot Friends Burton
qr Sloop Mechanic, HallibutOs do!
the Fort yellerday.
a Sal, y> Yardflr r. c. N.< Mole 12
f _ Schr. Minerva, Dill, c) - I 3
lt l Neptune, Waiters, Aux Caye» in
CLEARED. J
h« Schr. Three Sifters, Ktheridge, Eden ton
Brothers, Maxwell, N< riolk
es • . si rived at the Fort,
n- Brig Polly, Harris, one of thefleet from the
Mole.
The report of the capture of a privateer, by
the Ganges, is without foundation.
The privateer captured by the Thetis, is call
nk ed the Revenge, and mounts 12 guns.
i- The famous privateer Jean Bart, has arrived
et at Halifax, a prize to the Brltifh (loop of war
, 0 Rover.
c " u he Green Cmttr ' ra Pt- Pries, wa9
well, off Chincoteague, on Monday last.
1- SIoo P Dolphin, Holt,' of this port, it
e- condemned at P.nt-au Prince.
J- Capt Watters left at Aux Cayes the 17th
ult. the fchr. Polly, Davis, of this port, to
fail in three weeks,
'' e From Captain haggard from Bermuda.
i, The fchr. Robinson Crufoe, Church, ot
New York was sent in by the privateer
Pnncefs Royal on the 12th ult, on suspici
on of the cargo being French property.
1, , The fchr Olive Branch, Thompson, ar*
rived the 16th from Bolton, all well.
e The fchr. Vulpus, Smith, of New York
was Itranded on the Welt rocks the 12th
ult. and funk.
„ A fchr. from N. York arrived in diltrefs
s as the Nancy was coming out on the 19th
e ult. (lie was bound to the Weft-Indies a. d
j had thrown part of her cargo overboard
n Capt, Hojfgard did not learn her name, (he
, was a short veHTel. yellow tides, high quar
1, ttr deck, plain upright Hern, no head, and
. about 70 or 80 ton burthen. 11 (1 spoke in
' ?'• 33. 4J- 'on?- 64, 50, the brig N'eutra
-1 7 s days from New York to Jamaica.
By this day's Mail
1 NEW-YORK, June 6.
; ExtraS of a letter from New-London, dated
June 2d, 1798.
" The veftel reported to be off here last
week on Friday, I have no doubt is captu
-1 red by the i hetis frigate, as a gentleman in
this city has this day received a letteV from
j capt. Cochran, dated at sea on Wednesday,
iir which he fays, " The night Wore last,
I captured the privateer Revenge of 12
, guns, where lhe had come to proted the
American commerce—the captain's name is
. Williams, who calls himfelf William
p- fays he was. born in Lebanon, in Conneifti
, c »t- He is 5 feet sor 6 in. hes high, dark
complexion. I have him wjth another cap
tain of a privateer in Irons, and (hall carry
} them to Halifak, to be tried for piracy.
I have no doubt of this being the priva*
teer ften onourcoaft, as we have accounts
of a large (hip being off Montock Point tha
next msrning."
The Spaniards are forming a camp at St.
Roche's for the purpose of besieging Gib
raltar.
The city of Hamburgh has co-fented to
loan to lne French theTnm of twelve million*
of livres.
The beautiful (hip Herald, built for the
, Londcm trade, has been pmvhafed by gov
ernment, and is now equ pping.— Bos. pap.
A handfolru brig, built oi live-oak and
cedar, wa- lately launched at Charleston,
S. C. She is calculated to carry 14. gims,
6 pounder?, and is to be etnployed as the
! cuiter for rhat purpose ; (he is called the
j Unanimity, and from report does great
! to the conftrudlor and honor the poit.
Macpherfon*s Blues.
BATTALION OKDER-,
. June 7th, 1798
THE Blues arc tosfitmble, for th ■ purpose ot
Exercise, st the Public Square, Market a-idDroed
(Ireets, TO MORROW MORNING,a 50'clmk.
ROBSRT HETSHAM, 'Aajitnt, p, t.
volunteer" greens.
A Meeting o' Bufinef< will be held at the house
cf B. M'Shr.oe, in Third ilrsct, on Saturday ti«
9th of June inrt. at 7 o'clock in the evening—Se
veral proposed members will be balloted for.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
June s.United States, \ir 1
Pcnnfylvania DiftriS. 3
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in purfuanc? of a Writ to m'c direfted, .
from the Hob Richard Petert, Esq. Judge of
the D:firi& Court of the United States, in and tor ,
the Pennsylvania Diltrifl, will We exposed to pub. (
lie fate et the Custom-House, in the City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the 15th day of June, inft.
at 12 o'clock at uoon
41 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
Th« fame having been libelled against, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the said court.
IViliiam Nichols, Marftial.
Marftial'* Office, >
June sth, '9B J srot
On Saturday, the 23d oj June, injt. at eleven
o'clock prectfely% will be exposed at public ven
due, on the premi/es, if not pre-vioujly dispos
ed ps by private sale.
THE four following lots of ground, situated
on Schuylkill, and extending to Plymouth
creek, about fourteen m.less oin Philadelphia,
about three miles from Barnhill church, and one
mile beyond Springmill.
They are offered for sale, ehiefly from the
view of enlarging an agreeable society, and their
being eligible fituationa for Summer retreats,
since they command a beautiful profpedl of
Schuylkill and the country around it, in a fertile
lime ilonfc foil under high cultivation, and join
ing to a grift and a saw mill for timber and mar
ble, belongmging to William Shepherd,
ft. The intended Canal, willfooner or later make
the communication with the capital both e*fy
and cheap. Good building stone may be easily
quarried on the premise*, lime may be bought
within a quarter of a mille; and scantling and
boards procured from Reading, and brought
down Schuylkill and landed on the premise
A liberal credit will be given for part of the
purchase money, and the conditions of sale made
known on viewing the premises.
N. B. If the day (hould prove unfavorable,
the sale will be poftponedtill the following Wed
nesday or the next fair day.
Belvidere, the 30th May 1798.
Charles G. Palefke.
The draft lately made by Reading Howell,
may be seen at the Coffee-houfc.
June 5 3*
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muicovado quality, which h« offers for
sale very law for ca(h or at 60 days.
HI HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of Britilh DryvGoods,
which he will dispose of on the mo ft reasonable !
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, &c. &c.
June 5 dtf
~ " FOR SALE,
On board thefhip CLOTHIEH, at Perot'*
Wharf
Excellent Chelhire, anil ) CHEESE
Double Glouceiter J * '
In fine order —■ ALSO, a few Cratei of
Queen's Ware,
Weil assorted for Families.
June 4 f"
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret ">
Frontinac ( W ; ECS Cast!-
Sautprne f
Lundi j
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogftieads of Tobaaco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
June 1 dtf
Now Landing,
AtMefirs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
65,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Hoglheads, Tierc«s, Barrel?, and Bags,
FOR SALE BY
SAMUEL MAYS,
No. 89, South Third Strset
june 1 §6t
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of thetreafury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thrcdrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. .Certificate
No. 10,072.
Sdu. if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797» No.
10199.
40183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
of the United Statss, —and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof United States/in
the name of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five {hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 15981, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc desired to
take notice*
JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. §6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan.el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlesex, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 1150 —1306610
13075, ten (hares—No. 2149 —1305610 13065,
ten shares—No. 2148 —1150910 11518, ten (hares
—No. 2147—1147* to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
(hip Willsam Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the ta.
newal of which, application will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 M6w
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuttomed to marketing for a family—
hi* nge about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office sf this Gaz«tte.
may ij. §
Colle&or's Office,
Philadelphia, May 15, I
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain in the Custom-House
(tores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 202 one bale firth web
(FL) a quantity ot steel
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
1 a 3 three bales girthweb
VH] 200 one ditto ditto
N] 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle dates
[LS] one small box locks dtis J
Will be fold for Calh,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Msr
charits' £offee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OP
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common J of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, aajoiniug lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acres in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands ot Jacab War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand [ohnDilley, including
3«oo acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath eounty, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, on the waters of said river, and
of. Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, andincluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tra&s of one
thousand 4cres each, the others in the quantities
and tra£s abovo described.
Persons desirous 10 examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, z,t No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to cither of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORG AN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
may 14. No. 9, North Eighth street.
By virtue of a decree of the honorable the high court
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fell
at Public Sale, on the premises, on Monday, the
•sth of Juce next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
r T"*HAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
JL No. 53, aad part of No. 54, property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this cit/, situated on
Tharties-ftieet, in that part of Baltimore city. called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings and imp:oremcnts thereon. There are
ere&ed on this 'valuable property, several large and
commodious brick Warehouses, capable of contain
ing from 15 to 20,009 barrels of flour, with a frame
(hed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in perfe£i fafety
from the weather' From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harbo»,an
extenfiveand well conftm&ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hips of any burthen at the lowest tides. From
the many advantages this property is known to possess,
it is eHeemed equal if i.«t superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, andmuft be a de
firableob eft to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnecessary to fay more on this fub
jeft, as those intending to purcha<e, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises t previous to the
tlayof sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser Ihall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to the truftec for the payment of
one half the purchase money with interest, within
three months, and the residue with interest, ifvithiu
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may *B. . dt2sthje.
(£>* IF Mr. Charles William Klemekc,
Formerfy of London, and who left England for
some part of the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Meflrs. ffaae Hazlehurft and Son,
inPhiladelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpedl
ing the said Mr. Charlc3 William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received. *
may 19 dtv
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purchase tH Enquiie of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet.
may 17 §
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fisher, Samuel W. Fisher. and Thomas Wilson.
t
All persons who have demands ai»e re
quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Assignees.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fisher %
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
FOR SALE, "
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fa<ftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
t© the printer. April 5 m&wtf
30 Dollars Reward.
1| 'HE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
i- open last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of afet figure were car
ried off. "Whoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recovbr the govds, (hill receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part
■ thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
No 58 South Front-Jlreet. '
may 23 daw
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge; j
PURSUANT to the 6th fcaion of the afl of
Aflembly, authorizing the Governor or
this commonwealth to incorporate the company
for eretfling a permanent bridge over the river
Schuylkill, a meeting of the Stockholders is
hereby called, for the purposes mentioned in
that fe&ion (which is hereafterpubhfhed for in
formation) on FRIDAT* next, the Bth instant,
at ia o'clock at noon, at the State House. As
this meeting is very important to the interests
of the company, apundiual and general atten
dance of the Stockholders is earneltly requelted.
By order of the DireSors.
RICHARD PETERS. President.
Seflion 6th, And be itfurther enaftcd by the authori
ty aforefaid, That thefaid President and Dire&ors, on
their being chosen, in the firft instance (ha 1 call a
meetin* o( the Stockholder*, and that meeting may
appoint five of li eir number to examin and report
the moll eligible place or places for building the
bridge, and to treat with any or bodies, politic
cr corporate, or iudividuals, for the purchase of their
refpettive rights, or any of them, to the p'aca or pla
ces deemed eligible; and when the said place or places,
and terms on whieh it or thevca'n so
reported, the said Stockholders |or a majority of those
met, may fix on the place and trrms ; or the (aid
Stockholders, or a majority of them, may at any
time agree to leave the determination, both on place
and terms, to the Piefident and Dire&ors.
jane 2, 1798. d6t
Fresh I eas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
. SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TfAS.
ALSO, j
China Ware, a<T»rted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also For Sate,
Ell wide Perfian#, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Canabricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8. $
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide ot* Spruce-ftrect near Second-ltreet,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden /nd
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq. —This
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
conlifting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handforne
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a raore particular description iscon
fidered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ia
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire ®f JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12 Dock-Jlreei.
may 16 §
Military Colours,
PATNTED ON SlLK—bt
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure thehardftiips of the
weather without injury, and for neatness
and exaditude of colouriag cannot be furpalTed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en the moil moderate
terms. 1
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhedin that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter fledges
himfelf from ao years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of theNaw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertisement of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ef eflaMifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that business which
their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andfhew thenecef
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thj
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailey, Gcrmas
town. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At c. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfeU) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of defignj truth and beaucy of
colouring, neatness and mallerly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Familhed with all poflible dispatch, on the mod
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of hi? profeflion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeffional talents, pundnaKty, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi.l please to c.ll at his Painty
ng Rooms. s6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maflerly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flatteritig advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ingof good Hlks by George Rutter's pencil—and
dii'cover the rcquiGtes for the contracting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
William Meredith,
Atltrney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. 427 CheCnuNflreet,
where Titles to Real eliatee are examined
and Briefs thereof and Conveyance! of every
kind, prepared. may »i 3awjw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH I, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfuanee of the Ad of Csngrefs passed on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, entitled " An A<ft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A& patled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fevea, entitled
"An Ait to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A6l enti
tled " An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July enf»ing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon which ihall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments «r writing;following—to wit:
Dls Cts.i Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... 5 1
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admifiion, enrolment erregiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in any Court of the
United States, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Officer, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforelaid, be a fufficient admilTi'in in all the Courts of the United
States, foreach and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for landi granted for military services) - i
Any Botti mry, or Relpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of anyLegacylcftby any Will or •-
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any (hare or port of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force ot any statute of ditlributisns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafea.the amount whercoffhall be
abovethe value of Fifty Dollars,and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... -
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrsd dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of j
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflci or
goods insured from one diftrift to another in the United States, jjl
From tl.e United States to any foreign port o- place, wben the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum insured Ihall exceed five hundred dollars, - ,
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furwifh for the use of the United States or some particular fUte, -
Any Hond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any Rate, or for their
use refpeflively, -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - IO
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not excteding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjedl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, IO
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes issued by the banks now ellabii(hed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the no'&s of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeilively, according to
the tollowiag scale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for eacji dollar, - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - ... j
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services i
performed in the late war, - "
Any Certificateor Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, ..... !
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two theufand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollars, ...
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftriA to another diftriil of the United Statw, not being in the
fame State, .... IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effWts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and g»ods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,)
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, «f a share in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Batik,
If aljove twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - -
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colleited and r«ceived by the Supervisors, Tnfpefiors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the several Diltrifls, Surveys and Uivifions of the United states, and by such othef
perfonsas (hall from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of DiftridU for
that purpose.
HI.
The Supervisors of thef«veralDiftri<£ls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon at
may be pra&icablc, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch,
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties • Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, he ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Suoervilor, InfptSor, Officer of Inflection,
or other person appointed for the diftributioa of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Didrieli
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treafun.
TREAS-URY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byana<sl of Congrcfs parted 011 the
19th day of March, *798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the pafled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a<sl laying duties on stamped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cate! for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or refpe&ively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
in.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each flcm of Parch
ment, or Two Cents for each flcin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any letter quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yetr abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Tre a fury.
To be Lety
(And poffeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables, at prefrnt in the tenure of Major J a ck
■ son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE I(RM Or
Joseph Davidson Ss? Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
Having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tofottle tfee affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
Joseph Davidson.
N. B. The Stores at the corner »f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire of Jo
ftph Davidfon.
April a 6 w&sjm j
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acies of Land.
IN Greene bounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mil® Ran.
1 hefc J.anda are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years acjofor
five {hillings per acre ; patented early in i7B7,ex
ce P l 37P C seres, which were patented in 179* ;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greeoefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the refi
ne- Enquire of the Printer,
april 11.
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the qor|her»
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townftiips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and fi(uation >
are a very desirable obje& for any man who mean®
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will f e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. £
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,,
wilh to receive two or three geared boatd
ers. The Houfc is handsomely fumifhed; the
Miadowsand Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the choicest Fruit.
There arefeveral Musical Inftrum«nt«, amongst
which is a moll excellent pateat Piano Forte. The
Family have a Uandfoire Coach, which may be at
thefervice of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office- of] this Ga
dtf may i 6.
' ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon, have by mutual consent agreed
to liva separate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
perfans from trufling her on my account, as by
contrail (he is to fuppcrtherfelffor the future, and
I am determined uot to pay any debt of her con
tracing. SAMUEL HQDGKIKSON.
ma >* l i : *-itia\v