<k 0-Unites |st airs, and Philadelphia Da
By John Fenno, N° no Cbefnut Street.
Numbs 9 1669.] j
C u ft: om-Houfe Sal&s.
O PWtoUphia, January 13, 1798.
N Monday, cue 2 g.n of January, 179b, at la
o'clock, wiH be fold by public au&ion, at the
Cuflom-Houfe» in purfu.nce of the in that {cafe j
made md provided, rbie following articles of mer- J
chab«Hze, having b«e» ftor**inofefrin nine months 1
and noi claimed by 1 !»e owners or configoees ttttreof;
which articles may be viewed during the space of c<
three day» aatecrtleht to the dav of fcle, between the
ttOunvf nine and t*o c'cMc't.'
FCP Two cases, coaeMftiag WoaHen Hats
Mp C One cale,. coouwnng Books and Pamphlet*
R P Three ca&s, containing Girth Web
(DU) One caik, containing Spades and Shovtlj ai
Four caflw, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Beans
IS One keg of Red Lead;
<> WC One c*ate of Earthed Ware
BTM Two dc. dr>. r
WL Ot»e do. and two cases containing Images and «
ornaments for building 1
[No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter +*
Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB of Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens One bundie, containing pieces of
Music an
Mr.'Scotl. On? boic containing old faniphlcts di
iWr # Au«iey • One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewter Lamps
* 8 OAc Hox containing Brtrfhes ,
G. Utdlaiid. Ooerafic containing ajchcefe and some
' oatmeal
yft Onecrafeof Earthen Ware
H. if. One crate of Earthen Ware. -
>n. 13 3wq
* —*• op
THE SUBSCRIBER
, country jq the cciurfe
JE at ftc'fummer for Europe (if he compicats the •
fectlcHicut of his affairs f>jr thit time) and where it
h probable he may retide as a merchant—rrquefo
every man who has any demands against him to
come forward therewith, ift order that a final set- 1
tlement may take place o
GEORGE MEADE. £
FliiiaileTphia, Jan. 13/1798. S
TO BE SOLD, rca
On FftTDAY, tKe 30th ef March next, at his
dwelling hotrf* in Cheftai-flreet, four deors a
bove Tenth-street,
AH his houfhold and kitchen Wl
Fnrniture P'ate, &c. Stc. and which may be viefr
*d every day for three days before the fate, from
t«n o'olock m the morning till one o'clock, and
from three o'clock in the liter noon tilt night.
TO BE SOLD BY PRIVATE SALE,
And if not fold by Saturday, 17th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffce-houfc, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
in Walnut-street, two doors below Fourth-street;
is now occupied by Dr. Stevens for one year frem
4th November last, at the rent of 4OCII, per aanum;
it at ftl.- ri.. ■ r .1.- 1-t. r.—
would have brought, I think, more. The two if?)
Stables in Walnut-street will be set Hp fcparately
cr together; the largefl one now rents for 551. the han
fm-illeft for per annum, ani they are arched PJf
ani laid in n.ortar and two inWi plank, and the '
cellar will hold about 160 pipes of wine, which I
was once offered 6«1. per annum for. A large Store
in rourth-ftreet, 33 feet front by 50 feet deep. a
good yard abd receflary belonging to it; on this
Itorc is a ground retat of 11 d»l)>. 75 cents per ann. "j
, this hatlding is rented to the public for eighteen n
months at »501. per annum, and the rent was paid
down ; it might have been rented at the fame price
for three years, but 1 declined it l«aft it might hurt
tfce file. A lot in Fourth street, to leet front by I
50 feet deep, on which is a ground rent of 6 dol
iars per iitiiutn; it has the privilege of a tbrte feet 'jS
alley adjoining the lot.
Si™ld it make any difiVrencc to th& purchaser, MB
Mr. Mjaoe will endoavnr ts prevail on Dr Ste
vens to give poTTefiion foorrer, if he can with con
venience.
PAYMENTS. *
Approved notes and indorfers at 6,9,1 a and 18
months 1 the deed to be lodged with Wra. Tilgh
man, Esq. till the notes are paid : On the house, W 1
SdNvard Stile*, Esq. ha?a mortgage for ifijol. On J
the liable*, Mr. Samuel Williams for 3001. Thefs
films may lay *3 l»ng as the purchaferpleßfes.pay- .
ing the mtereft fsguiarly. ' Km
• For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh.
mas, Kf<j. or to the fubferiber, Chefnnt, four
doors above Tcnth-ftrret
GEORGE MfeADE. ®»« 8
Pall:
FOR SAL £—tbe following
Tra&s and Lots of Land, A
Of an excellent quality.
fO. 1. Four hundred and thirty acres of exed- ""
lent Lund, on the waters of Baclc creek, Freder
idk eounty, Virginia, an the great road leading to »
South brar.ch, about ten miles froin Winchelter ;
one hundred 3cres of which is rich bottom ; a fine -ft orv
stream running through it, with several fyringj; D rch
the trees in the bottom are chiefly fqgar inaple, town
bhek walnvt, hicory and locust ; there is a log the "
dwelling and out houses, some meadow tpade, and _
tradt JuL p
there is a good mill feat, wherean"ulKjer-itiol Trait ~
might be ereited. el •
No. 2. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two
miles from WoodlVock; part of this traS is in
cultivation, is finely timbered, and a goodquanti- f
tj of meadow may be fnaac.
No. 3. TwQjrfroufand five hundred acres on the
waters of Hemes' river, Harrifon county, state of a { A '
Vir-inia. . . '
na v 1 m
No. 2. Four hundred acres, in "Bald eagle town- Rj c h,
ftip, Northumberland county, state ef Pemjfylva-
mia.
No. 5. An half acre tat in the town of Rich
tnottd, Virginia.
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE,
The following traces of Land.
fio.oooacresof land in Walhiqgton ccunty ■> State of It"
174,'00 do. Montgomery j Georgia an< j
3 [ .°i3 rfo - Or;(Dge"ugh diftriel "> State of , or
do. Charleston jSo.Car.;
40,000 d.>. on the Alleghany river J State of
54,c00 do. Wcffmoreland county J Penn.
4r,900 do. Wyt*te, Wafliington, State of
and Grayfon counties J Virginia
10,000 do. in Bedford coaaty.
All which he will fell on the uioft reafonablei / 1
terms, and but very little money will be required, v^ l " ]
the remainder may lay upon Credit for 1, 1, j, or. Ale a
4 year*, fccurity being had upon the lands. Lon-dc
|an " J v'V dt2 7 -.h ; luitahl
FOR SALE, . j V}<
Several fonts ofTypes—half worn.: com™
Including Long Primer, ,bont 400 weight, in Fultia
good condition, and would anfv.-er the purpose of
a county printer js we(i is new.
Enquire of the Printer, nov
uo\. <r j. jj oVi
ffllLADt LPHI A : MONDAY LVKKiNG, 1 AMI ART 1?. 1708.
For- Savannah,
g TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
lt ', a 1 he f .i": failing Ihip
SWIFT PACKET, 5
mer- .fvSjßgfiAv Patrick Grihbe if, MaHer, t
tilths NOW lying the firit wharf>>elow
reorf; Street— ac- ?,
:e ol c ommodalion«« for palTcsiger^—For freight or M-
n the Matter 011 board, or to
—& y. Fraztr,
'• No 9r. Snath Street. f
Who have art hand, and for Sale t E
Primeßiee, in.whole and half tierces, Georgia C
, £ | s and Carolina Indigo, Moiafles in hhds, Teneriffe 1
wine, Ac. &c ,
Pcas December 7 j 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
A British vefel, ftfteen hundred F
j t^lou^ vc hundred bar- C
Peter Blight,
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
tof Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogfhea
and old London Particular Madeira, fit tor immc
diate «fe, in pipes. V
DecemVr 20 w
or Charleston,
J—'THE SHIP '■ *
oroe v enus,
i «T"' **" Sf M'jfn- Peritfs
' *' CHE will take Freight on very
,g ij( tow terms, and fail the firit '
opening.—Apply to the mafteron board, or to
Jos, Anthony £s* Co.
wfc Bc»«mW>B 5
the ' £— is
X or Amsterdam,
letts j 7
f "' F A R ' M ' E R > P
J' ol "' M'CotLOM, Mailer;
WU. L fail in a few days, the
>rc^ zrcitcr p Jrt q[ fa cr cargo being
ready. Forfreigiit of fifty tons of Coffee, or pat
his apply to the matter on board, at Walnut- ,'
sa . street wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
3J-, Who is Mnding, out of flte said Ship, from Boor- 1
deaux, and For Sale,
em Claret in hhds. 0/
md White Wide in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a Superior quality
Fentiniac, *) K
Santetne, > Wiifes in cases ber
IC Lunille, ) es I
Jt Prunes in boxes "!inc
novemler 14. 5 out
8, For Londonderry, ™
v .*" " THE brigantine and
T; S U KET, nur
wo Wn - UAM Whitten, Mafler.
sly -cuSAs? v'r ~ a Rrong good vessel, about «nro jHi
:hc hundred fens, to fail with all convenient fpe»d, a f a ;j
led part of her cargo engaged—now lying at hav
he Willing and Francis's wharf, for freight or pas- gus
, 1 sage, apply to the captain, or 1
>rc JOHN SKYRIN, r
» a Landcnherger 5 -wharfJ
Wis Who wants to.Charter. . u T~
,n * A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
•d — 8 - L. P
ice For Sale or Charter,
lit '
by iht onow
»1 j£m&, GOOD HOPE, \
!Ct Will carry about i»ot> barrels, and -tJ
is ready to take in a cargo. Forterms w ' l '
er, apply to .pal
n- * Pragers 1$ Co.
No. 151, South Second-flreet. for r
Who have for file—prime St. Croiic Sugar and of m
18 Rnm, Madeira, Li&on, and Teneriffe wine. — a
h . _November 7. dtf. in R s
, e n ' For Savannah, in Georgia,
'f® the SHIP
y ~ Sally Butler, tn
h- Captain Chisholm, . oa |
lr A new vefftl > with excellent g, ft]
accommodations for paflengers— in il
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or othe
PaiTage, apply to ROSS W SIMIiON. W
Who have to difjntfc of, affori
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS ft"" c
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. ze >
j rutoember 18. F.l
To be fold, W h!,
° AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- a . nd '
• il mg 6 acres and 40 perckes, with a neat two T
® story brick Hoefe and Kitcheh thereon, an apple
• Orchard, See. filiate on the'lrilh trail lane, in the «.
! > township of Moyameuflng, about one mile from
S the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
'r fee made known upon application at the office of
} the Philadelphia Gazette.
tr Tfra improVifßlents upon tfits place,for taste and
olegbnee, Hand unrivalled.
0 Desemlrer r. . ,] t e
1 u "
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the tenewal of a Certificate of a Share
m the Bartk of the United States, Handing in the name
rtfA.B. N0.50P4, dated July n, 1797. the fame De
havmg been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
• Richmond, Dec. 1. i^g w
ROSS fcf SIMSON, Infl
books
A - , H f SALE '
A tew bales Baftas, Coflas, and u,t - »
a quantify of Bengal COTTON °P' n ]
\ Bengal SUGAR, in bag's arid boxes their
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, ( RUM. Phi
and Bengal j
30b casks RICE, sod C'3.l
A parcel of fliip buildingftED CEDAR.
Chocolate and Mustard, s ,l.
of a superior quality manufa<flured, and Br
./""RINGER, and Pepper, ground ;.lhelled or Ticket
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Dollars
Ale and Cyder ; T»unton ar.d Burton Ale ;
LonJon Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine', ton - w
luitahle for exportation or home confomption. t '. on ®
The highest price grren for Mustard-Seed. ' riesaH
Mg far/ale, A qusntitj of Booking and Uc ' on
common Baizes, a variety of ro'ors : a oale of r 1
Fuiiians, Shawls, for <?Je hv lVMing
JOHN H,tvVORTH, '
iyo. jB, lourli Front-ifreet, b r
V»r|Hh.t.lJ.
Nicklin ?jf Griffith,
, At their Store of) Walnut StrrttWharf—
have fok sats,
iT, f« Mull., of J l!RJ ;^taK^n
Vr -r idC,r t W, '' i W t«T **¥ hW »-
•£ ■
V;u Tei ill quarters jrut eighths of cKWs
' pal Sail Can**, No. ~to S *
iJimiries, Ginghams, and Muflineis, in
ges suitable for the VVeft'lndia market
«t. Naik afl'orted
Black quart bottles
eorgia Queens ware in llids. and crates
lertffe leilow ochre dry in cilks ;
rtf. And at New-York, onboard tjic
fliip Diana, from Liverpool, expsilcd round
as soon as the navigation is open,
ndred Fine Liverpool Salt
1 bar- Coils
Spaniflj Brown "|
Venetian Red I
t Purple Broun i p...,™
Patent white f PAIN TS
White lead
Red lead - J
Tlnlc Colcothar vitriol
Iw 160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Chatter. I '
*mtfs ALSO, «
-^ lr " Brig Amazon.
\ 'K. B Ihe late Grjuof PhiliyiikkJiu o Co. '
-£— is now char.sed to ' a
NICKLIN W GRIFFITH. *
January 1. 'eodtf [
Ph.ilapel|>hia & Lancaster Turn
*■. , pike Company. j
January 4, 1798.
? At a Meeting of the President and Managers, I
" this day, a dividend tf ? dollars per Jhare tvas
declaredfor the lajl half year, •wbii-b quill he by
them retained, fir thf payment of the debts of
tbe Company, agreeable toa rejahttion oftheStock
oar" holders the 12th June la/I.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer J
Of tile Philadelphia ts" LancaJlei\lurttpi/te Com'py. I
January 8 m&<un<w c
Ran away the 25th of Decern- £
ber, 1797, a Negro Man, about s f<*t S OT 6 inch- p
es high, of a ytllow complexion; when fjpoke to
and called bj his name he fas a cjuicfc (harp look
5 out of his eyes and IhewS the white of them very
uuch ; has taken all his eloathes with him, which
ate, a new kersey great coat, a g-rty broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a striped vtft, nankeen
breethes, silk (lockings and nifßed Ihirts, and a
number of other cloaths. The said Negro under
ftaad« farming, and is a good Ihoemaker and car>
r ' penter ;he can read and write Jolerably well—lt
V"° is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
a said negro and secures him, so that I get him, stall
J at have Thirty Dollars reward, p»id by the fubferiber,
P a f- Stjsawmah Mkdford, living in Still Pond, Mary
land, Kent coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
f. January a- 6t
*' Tm AMERICAN LADIES. «
5_ POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM t. BIRCH, H
No, 17, south feeond-ftreet— ccntarining a t
\ N elegant Frontirpiece of the Marquis delafay- y
and JTx. ette, and his Family, in thecaftie Of Olmuti, {e ,
rms w *th an illustration ; being an accaimt of the princi- on
pal events io the public I lie of the Hatqais, with a ftr
(ketch of the fufferinos ojJviti/elf and lus unfortunate «,
family. A compete Alftiahacpj-io4 'ruled pages
for memorandums, übfervations, &c. aib,tor account i C
ind of manies paid and received for every diy ih tht year
—> marketing aud oiher ufeful tables—general meet
ings of fiiends—Lift of births, dea:hs. &c —new m:
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. See. er
also, all
The Gentleman's annua! Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1/98 —containing an Almanack ; 104 rule.' pages' W.
for memorandums and calh account ; Duties payable tht
on gojds impo-ted into the United Stales, Cullom
oufe feej, &c. (lamp duties, to tifcf place after the
3 iftDecimber;a lift of the pod towrs and crofs-ioads ,
> — in ibe United States; av d rielyof ufefultabVs, aßd
or other interefling matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, conlbntly keeps for sale, a genera!
affortment-of Merchants account Hooks, and otbe'
flat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
lizc , and ruled to any pattern. r
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the das
Weft-Incries.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, £i>rijft) flrt
in- and aid en can. Dec. i 7 -* 3...
2 Imported in the brig Eliza, - "
he * Capt. Ha stie, from Bourdeaux ;
iff: Claret in Cases of a very superior Quality, .
Hi white Sautcrne Wiue in Cases, j
of Olive Oil in baicets cji 2 bottles each, 1
White and coloured Kid Gloves ' 11
nd do. do. Silk (jo, ' : Fl °
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy, ° al
USifeby . Sh"
JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun. . .
7r, South Wharv««.
re Who has also for Sale,
ne A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine. j s
" Dec - -'• : am
w 7 he Subscriber, c
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his m £
books, which have been kept open for their in/pec-
tionfince December are „bala*ced to thejrft Im
J ult. and will during the pre sent month temain I
open at his Counting-house in CJiefnut Street for Fr .
their further inveAigatjon end fcrut ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF. r,
Philadelphia, Jr,n. 1(11798. -t» or
IrWl
Canal Lottery—-No. 11. Mei
- Sau
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets iSale in this Lottery, at
> Seven Dollar,, at Wu. BLAGKBURN's Lottery She
and Brokers Olßce, No. 64, South Sec»nd-ftreet R„.
r Tickets iu the Sehuylkjl Bridge Lottery, at Ten p
, Dollars, where check b«jpk3 are kept (or regifler.
. ing and exsmitiing wthefr, the City of Waih'ing- 4°°'
, ton > Wo. 11. and P«erf.)p Lotteries, and A
_ son where ticketsmaylx; h:\d ilj, molt of the Lotte-
ries anthorif«d Wy law tn any of tht Status of the
j Union. /
1' rn' 8 ' Th: bufmcf ?> f a Srokbr, ia buviagand an O
felling all kinds cf Public Stock and Secujitics, alari
drfcountb.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of or a
Land's, Houses, ike. &c. w'.llw: d«jly attended to, Fifth
• b >- Wm. ELACKBURN. R, :
mt.-mler ij, 5 ovc
B A L L.
Mr. Byrne's third Ball wilt beooTtief
day tlie 17th January, at Oellers'.s hotd—
Gentlemen's Tickets at one dollar -each to
b« b»d at the hr»tel. Ladies' Tickets to he
had of Mr. and Mrs..Byrne, No. 114, North
fffts
The days of Tuition for yonng ladies,
icka- assisted If Mrs. liyrne, are 0:1 Tuesday and
Saturday morning—ia rheaftefflooTi of the ,
, fame days for -young- gentlcme«, »nd Thurf- ,
day arid Satui>day evt-niogs for gentlemen. 1
January 13. 1
4* ' CLE RKS HJP.
Y° ung Man, who cow Id bring imJiCpntabla
recommcndat ons, is desirous to he employ- c
in the capacity of copying Clerk, at a public of- '
fit#, or with a private gentleman— L He would en- a
on moderate terms. For further partitu- c
enquire at the oHice of this Gazette. '
To Be Sold,
A GREE ABI-V to the lao will ar«l te(l?\meot of
xl. William Hiysham, deceased. and pnffrf-
Con given immediately, h valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ft.eere, confid
ing of the h»ufe, No. 107, with the let on which
it is trekked, a ftabU, and other improvements.—-
The house is. 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the 3
j house and io<>feet deep, wish a well of water and r
a very capacious walled ciftem, botli with pump., 1
repair. *1 he (table stands on of
the lot and wiH accominodatefcnr horfds and a car- 31
Th ' s r r Vperty s ;I'.' perpetual privilege
of a2O feet Court and an .til ty, g feet yrjdc, crteaid-
Co, .ISS Chtrry Street. Its central position :.»J the. '
wi»t
!. tion, renders it well worthy the atteiltion of any bi
perf&n w.ifHing to poflr&an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia, .
*n- For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine "
Street—of.
Robert Hiysham,
'• _ <> r f Executors. a
xrs, Francis Bowis Saym, y ct
was January n j. )><
% NOTIC E_. Sl
ock- til
ALL persons who have any demands against cc
th* eftite of Willam Fleewtood, of 2!
'Py• Liver l*te of Philadelphia, merchant, de- I
u ceased, are requeued to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested j and thole whp are indebted
to tbe lame, are desired to make immediate
ich- payment, to
; GEO. DOBSON, \ . .. ,
00lc No. So. Third-street. ] Adm ""Jir r
c.r7 January 4, dtf
Hen —'—
oth FOR SALE,
ccn By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
1 a No. 8, Clwlnut-ftreet,
ler- One hundred and eighty bales
l r r " t BENGAL GOODS,
up Anjongft which are,
tiall Gurrahs Mamoodles
ler, Baftas Sannas Tj
ry. Guiz nalft TandaCoffaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths , Calicoes ne.i
t Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amoiigtl them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of ?atitt.
December 1.
House and Lots, in Bordentewn.
r | 'O SOLD, a x handrome two (lory House. t-j
X with the Lot on wtych it is eresed, situated J[ *
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy a , v
l y~ Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two (]
lC f> feet front, arid iftiieat order. The lot contains
Cl * one acre, and is one hundred feet on t^er^iin
street, and extends with the fame breadttt to'bask ot
' street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four m *
jnt acres » separated from the former Ky back street. ?
eir °nly of the purchase money will be r-- j? '
et- ( l u \ u P on executing a deed, and for the re- cur v
Z yt mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free e
all incumbrances, and ?n indisputable title I
er, For further .particulars enquire either of Dr. j^ 0
res' William Barnes, re&dinc in Bofdeiitoiyn, near. J
jle the ptemifes, who will (bew the fame, or of A
£- PETER THOMSON, Wa
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-fti-eet. Kile
December 2. jawif mei
Empioyment for the Poor. spr
Rot
i, y FLAX for SPINNING, Vl \
To be given out every second, fourth, and ( fixth
tie day morning, between the hours of io and 12*— D
back of no, 52, south Fifth Arcct, ahove Sprnce
& street. , aodlw
Priibn Manufadlory. r '°
; , g
FOR SALE, v
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel-1
! F*ia,
; Cut Nails of all sizes, trom 3dy to aody
j Flooring Brads, Sptiggs, and card Ta-ks • 5
i Oakum and chipped Logwcod
Shoemakers and Sailers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,! m
i' tomb and heac Itones, hearths, chimney pieces,i
platfol-ms, flabs.facia, window tills, c |<
All which may he had on reasonable terms, ; '
! Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
_ a moderate price. ; ®? a .'
J Orders from a distance, direded" to Daniel Tho-| V""
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to. , ,
Decern'je; *>. rat h6n. _: e j
a- ImportedinthefhiplVlANCHESTEß, mfiT
n Benjamin Shewell, Mailer, " m
r From Bourdeaux, andfor sale by the fubferiber, " ?/
No. h, Walnut Afreet. ; ft '
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
_ Irflh market claret in casts / Entitled to ! 7)"
Medoc wine, in do. ( Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
, Thomas Murgatreyd. To <
t WHO HAS FOR SALE. ' !
' Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflts : T l^
Rota do. do .
[ Pimento in bags ° ot^
. .4000 bushels Liverpool fait. are n
Aug. 24. • tut&stf. ply v
" TO LET ~ a«d I
A front Parlour, suitable for provi
an Office • a Room, lurnifhedor unfurnifnad ; and
, a large Cellar, which will serve either for derail
or a bottling cellar. . Enquire at jno. South
Fifth-flreet.
Boarding and Lording to te had- Enquire as a
-OVC ( Jan De
of the United States,
' lle f- January tht IJ2, 1798.
d— Vrri'UiltAS fruit},, havs been pusUfed, in
Jl [q VV '\\ arrant, for l,c>un:y Jan ,nc
.0 he t0 filC alul Sotc,i rs "* tht Cowln r.tal
v the ptodlfciiion "t forced ioftrunictiLp.
n To check 111 future fact tapnfiUwis, ,r h., b»tn
thought arfvrftjble ; that »ij p-rfoi„, havingclaim*
- ur bounty lands whether in rheir ow» rtght, u
and ''IP I "prefeiitiitWe.orby virtue of any inft rumen £
the nrJ<!a<lof transfer, be
5 ufpeSive claims to the -War Office, on er before
the firß day
ncn. claiiti* may be duly eia mined, adjusted and deter
t, mjjred upon.
To substantiate fiich cUitn*, a stria obfnjrance ol
the rules heretofore issued from the War Office v. ill
:abla he indifpeirfaUe ; and in addition to what is requm
iloy- e< l by the said rules, ths certificate of the acknow
:ol- ledgenirut of a Deed or Power cf Attorney, mult
tisu- or person malttngfuch acknowledg
raeiu ; ani wh.n the proof of personal knowledge
tf is by a witiwrfs or witncfica, th-jr place or places of
rcfideijce muA be fct lorth in Ijlce manner*
JAMES M•HENRY, Stc'y of Wsr.
it o f _ ]-"■ 7- 5 d6w
K ~ 13 A L L.
ifin- Mr. Fr rir l refpe&fully inforipa his scholars, and
tlich the public ia general, that h « fVcond praiflifin^
s— Ball will be rtn I hurf.lay the 11th at the new Af
-00 j ferriblyßoem o«mh Fourth Street,betwe.-fi Cli?f::i!t
the aud Walnut Street— La>li«s7'ieit*ftsto bchad hyap
and i'-ivitig t« the fchobirs of Mr. I rancis, or at his
bp.ule N«. 70 North Eighth Street.—-Gentlemen's
of tickets one dollar each, tq be had pffvlr. Francis,
car- at the Academy, cr at bishoule.
lege Mr.'Francis likewise hiformj theSubfcriber tofhe
:nj- SeleS. Bails, that the next wi'l 90 I'uel'day the
the . 16th—Thole fuhferihers who liHve not yet received
«,c a
nny hove.
'hi- Mr. Francis contAiues to take Scholars as usual.
J an - 7- d 4 t
me 2h e owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uron, mjfltr, captured by
)r9 a Sp.inilh privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
cember, may reeeive interesting information res
• peeing her, by applying to the Department of
State. .
il *_ The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a service to the
11ft concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir newf
of P 3 P frs - Jan -.
| For bale by the Subl'eribgr,
j 10 bales Coffas
1 40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
•v.- 7 do. Tookery
. S do. Gorahi
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
2S pipes fincft particular Madeira Wine, of
toe vkrfßye J7pc. _
MO RD EC AI LEWIS.
December j. 3 aw 4 w
Hyion and Young Hyson Tea.
A few chests of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner ot Second and Pint streets.
he December 26. cots
French Circulating Library.
.JOSEPH E. G. M. De-I.a GRANGE
r, _ W°- no Walnut-ftrcet
d tliofe who wiih to recir to the only
1 mean, of becoming perfe<ft in the French Lan.
" fitlin!' J r ft SpCned his i"" s v, ccn
upwards of n JO volumes, the befl cal
,n I !^. C ' thCt Uferul or p|^
:k I 'rh I X e ° B<l "" >n ?' Wh a crtakigue
in town 7 ' "" y 21 CVCr)r bt > ok -leHer-,
r N ;.®' A! ' ttanCations from and into the French
F.nglilh ans}Sjfcaufh,Lan£oageii, exeenren with ■ c'
f ; a ,ul dispatch. r, n ZTt
TOWsKUZ
-f By BENJAMIN CLARK,
r. , 5 '' thc corncr of Chefcut and Front ftreew,
A large quantity of Clocks and
*'S"> a Reneral assortment of Tools
mpnt a " - w 3 , ter,alS ' Co>!fin ' r gof Clock Movt
- ,Tt r " gt a " d thirt >' hcur brass pinions
and serge work; feells, clock and watch Dia'T
Springs Hands, GlafTe,, Pumice Stone, Emm
Rott.o Stone Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vice,; I urns, Pl.efs,Chains, Seals, !ie rs> &c .
h * -Apprentices Wanted.
.]— f &tmf
' Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
o , le 'Crawley, Master,
eoiihds. and / T _ .
j'2 pipes I J^Tisica
FOR S4LF. By fa
George Latimer & Son.
j ugitember 9. r
; ~ FORTSATETTT""
Wm. Young's Book Store,
'! O EPORT D lf fl , r rV he C ° rner ° fChcfu " r street,
' | R Reprgfentatives oftht^nUed'states,
'j against
, the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
- Co-nnutteetont during the recefc of Congress, and
,f mfltutSing rhem « to enquire, and, by fll Wf j
f " T th r Who!<! natUre 3nd «' *
< «• ftLH e u W^ rCOr the iaid i3lou oc
«« who arc
j P ™£±° T r t C/the HoUse e f ß^nta t i T .
noTTgI
To boldirt Of JAMES GREENLEAP:
and EDWARD FOX', J/. '
TN consequence of many having been pre»ent
; W, from late unavoidablf firr umflancesfi om
°nSr 8 T& C T !fitateS
notice. The Trustees now inform them, thtv
J are ready to ,fT ; ,e the fame to those who may an
*" ty . dl y s < at NV 8 Chcfnnt Street,
andthclewhodonot, will be considered as re
Imqudhing their claim on the A Pgre *ate
prpvrded for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
'J gt M AS VV. FKANCIS
. JOHN MILLER, JUN "
JOHN ASHLET,
. /ACOIS BAKER.
Oeccmoer IT. ~
dtzt
fVrLUidF. XULmmmmmampi^» ■ ' tu
-Cfje <s3sette. j
■ , ■■ 'j... - ■«■ - - r^ r F~- ' is ncj'
P H ILADi: L 1 > 11 i A,, Hou
MON'DAY EVHNI.JG, JAVUJ.tr it; V
XO J
To the Senate and House of Repre- n( j
SENT ATI VES, of the..£onimon wealth ot
Pennsylvania. TV
The Memorial of the m 4h*G rs efiiie ibun- q£ t
SYLVAN 14 HOSPlTitl,' c (
RESPECTFULLY SHEIVETH: £
That, in the beginning of the year »75 1 » vi
a p133 w43 presented to the A'.icmWy, for a
Public Hospital, for the benevolent purpose The
of receiving and accommodating the lunatics
andfich i)i)or of P<jrinfyl*ama» u
This pian was approved of by the legiua- g,
ture, w.'jo ibe wed a good difpoiition to car- w
t-y it into effect, but they had some doubts
of encouraging the building, for fear that e ,
individual contributions would not be railed -j
in proportion to legislative aids. J e gi
A trial however was soon made—the As- mor
ftmbly gave in May following, two thouf- w( .(
and pounds, towards erefting the eallern
u ing of the Hospital, embracing at that jj en
time the idea of extending it at a future day
whenever the circum (fauces of the province w bj
(hould Tequire its enlargement: to this gift OI
they annexed a condition, that the money
should not be paid, until the contributors ne j
jhould riife by fubfci'iption an equal fuui for rfa(
the fame »>fe. And in a fliort time more t
subscribed than the a£f required. 1 lie
institution was then organized, and twelve (
Managers, a TreaTurer and fix Physicians blic
were chosen, who freely undtrtook the fer
• vice of the house, for the fake of the sick a n d wal
iuffering poor. A charter was also procur
ed, which provided that committees of the mo ,
house of Assembly should viiit the Hospital,
whenever it appeared proper to them, that
the annual accounts should be fubrriitted to f e g
the house, that the laws and rules for thee- p ol ,
leftion of managers and piiyficians should be t },e
approved by the chief Justice and attorney
"general—and finally to shew, that every ob- jj or
jed of the contributors tended to the public '
weal, a clause was inserted, by which the con
Hospital, with all its property, was to ef- f ev(
cheat to the province, in cafe the contribu
tors should fail. Thus in the early fettle-. to ,
ment of Pennsylvania, the hospital took its w j,,
rife, the legislature became its pajron, and legi
every humane citizen, its friend. y ea
By a combination of public and private
exertions of so rpany charitably difppfed peo- <j e( j
plej in the province, the. manageis were a jj u
enabled to finifh the eastern apartments ; but n j Ql
the two thousand pounds which the affem- t ; OI
bly gave, and the iirft contributions that ] e( j,
were raised, were expended in the building! | a ft
it therefore became necessary to procure a on
reimbursement of this money to the capital ft; t|
flock; for which reason the managers peti
tioned the assembly to replace it. The noT
piayer of this petition was r«adily gran'ed, ma(
by
exclusive honour of railing the firft asylum
of the kind, that was known in the state, f er ,
if not m the Union, for the most abided
aud helpless class of people, bot' in body. j; ev
and . mind. To the humarie citizens cf aic
Pennsylvania, and <»o many benevolent per- j nt j
sons in England, and in other parts of the r h s
world, the credit of endowing the inftituti- ;
on with funds to support it, nnqueftionably
belongs. —Such liberality is not to be found
in the annals of this country, in which a pri
vl. association of gentlemen, who had no
personal emoluments in view, have freely
fubicribed a produftive flock of twenty
thousand five hundred and tffghty-five pounds Tf
ten (hillings and four pence, for the use of
the poor. In addition to this sum, they I
have added to the hospital estate, two valu
able lots of ground, to be kept open for ever
for the benefit of the frefh and wholesome -p)
air for the patients. To prove that the con
tributors have rendered this importantfervice
to the country, the managers can appeal to Sii
the annual account* which were rendered to
yotir predecessors in the year 1774, all of g (
which they prcfume are carefully preserved
among the archives of the (late. Br
About this time the affairs of the hofpi- Cc
tal were in a prosperous condition—when a- Cs
las by events inseparable from the war which
occasioned the late revolution, the contri-
butors loft above ten thousand pounds—this jj
(hock in the infancy of the inllitution, pa- r,
ralifed th« adive operations of the managers
for several years, but as the native, benevolent L
spirit of Penßfylvanians was yet alive to the
miseries of their fuffering fellow citizens, the
managers were encouraged to re-assume their
labors. And now when peace returned to
heal the wounds of a long war, ar.d the lap p
of industry was filled, with the profits of agri
culture and commerce, the managers fought
for new contributions, which they received
from many charitable citizens ; by these,
means the capital was partly restored, so
that in 1793, it amounted to feveateen
thousand and fixty-five pounds eleven (hil
lings and ten pence.
At this time it became indifpeafably ne
cessary to enlarge the Pennsylvania Hospital
so as to admit a greater number of lunatics
who with other patients were increased with (
the growing population of the state, and for
whom the old apartments of the house were r
inconvenient and wholly infuflicient.
To effeft this enlargement of the building
the managers submitted a new plan, nearly
refetnbling the original plan of the hospital,
with an address to the lfgiflature. They
approvd thereof, and gave ten thousand
pounds towards carrying it on, to be paid
out of the loan-office fundof the ysar 177 3.
Of this sum the managers have
received but, £7696-14- 1
In addition to which, on a fur
ther application the legifle
turegavein 1796, 9375- 0-0
Those monies amounting to £17071-14-1
are the total amount of all the ca(h receiv
ed from the legislature Hvthis time, for
the above purpose, and they are all ex
pended in carrying on the work.
: In addition to what lu, '-: in A«fJy P r
I cured, there will be wanted, a£re<abl>
I a report of the b-uld.-iT committer, w ! - n
is now submitted to the conftderaUon ot the p rom
House, viz. 0
To pay the money that is in tiic
borrowed, ' 181 I- 6- 2
To pay utifettled accounts, 2000- o- o
And to finilh the building, 457°" 5* 2 iug
Total required to complete * ; ,
the effimate, is 4 Qf
Of this sum the managers are iu hopes to
colleft the balance remaining due of the
f 10.000 given frorirthe loan-offiv'e find,
viz.— • " 2 3°3 _ 5' 11 C onfe
~ lime
There will then be wanted, ~a f t
in cash, - - - - £6078- 5- 5 cc flJ v ,
' to comp'ele t!ie whole, be- .
fides the Sr tl ' their
which is to he applied to Ev
the fame use when colled- o £
1 The managers further represent to the
legislature of the state, that chiejly by the
" monies they have given them, the call and
' western apartments of the hospital are clo- ,
1 fed, and that about fifty two lunatic pa-
: tients, besides others, aie »ov/ accomroo-
r dated in them ; but the middle house,
; which is the proper centre of communica- Q au j
E tion with all parts of the family, is open to
r the roof, the outward walls only being car- b
9 ried up, so that the valuable work that is al-
r ready done, with many materials provided
: to carry it on, are exposed to the weather £ rQm
: and in danger of being destroyed. r .,,
Considering this, and that former affem
s blies have thought the institution of so
" much importance to the state, as to give to
-1 wards the whole building, at different times
* twenty-five thousand pounds of the public y (
: money, to raise it to its present condition, (
» the managers are unwilling to believe, that
1 the legislature will desert it in this imper-
3 feft situation, when about fix thousand
pounds will probably secure the benefits
e their predecessors iatended their conftitu
-1 ents (hould derive from the liberal contribu-
" tions they have already made. j.
c The managers therefore, in behalf of the (rQye
2 contributors, apply for fix thousand and
seventy-eight pounds, to finifh the house* £Ver
" And when they call your serious attention eVe |r
to the records of this ufefHl institution,
s which have been faithfully laid before the
legiflature every year, for more than forty
years past ; when they remind you that the
e numerous and various cases which are atten- ■
ded in the hospital have been the means of
e alluring students from every state irt the TJ
-1 nion, and thereby of spreading the reputa
* tion of Pennsylvania with medical knowj
1 ledge, to distant parts of the world—and a c
> lastly, when you find (which is a truth up- ccs 1
a on record) that the contributors to this in- tu "
'' ftitution have assisted about nine thousand
" inhabitants of the state whose citizens you ru P'
; now represent, who have been affli&ed with P^ e '
'» madness, casualties, and almost every dif-
* ease that the mind and bodies of men 0
n and that they have been the means of pre- j;"
serving several th«ufartds of the lives of re P'
thofe distressed people, they trust and be- out '
y- lieve you will not require a more powerful men
- address to your feelings than this appeal, to cc ™
r " induce a cheerful and ready compliance with
'. e the prayer of this, their earnest petition. ,
Sigoed by order of a board of managers, e
y JOSIAH HEWES, President. vie
d . SAMUEL COATES, Secretaay. P ro i
12th Month, 28th, 1797. ot 1
10 00 r
ly PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL. P in '
y J
Is The COMMITTEE, appointed to prepare an ry 1
of account of the monies received from the Le- will
.y giflature of Pennsylvania, towards ere&mg t0
additional buildings to the Pennsylvania Hof- y 0 |
pital, aad finifliing the fame, and of the ex- ,
er penditures of the said buildins—REPOßT,
ne That by an account rendered the 38th of the ift J ll3l
n- month 1797, it appears there was paid to that tn a
ce time, - - - 8j 7 i-a<i and
to Since which therehas been expended as follows: be t
to For ironmongery and l'miths m 0
of work " " 299 13 5 ties
. Stone mason and flone cut
e ters work - 837 o 8 t *' u
Bricks and brick-laying 635 1 8 the
pi- Copper - - 346 4 o wil
a- Carpenters work - 718 19 o ' mil
c h Painting and glazing 375 o o l on
j Labourars wag s - 6j U 4 f u j
SeaflFold poles and ropes 35 1 3 (
Lime, far.d & carters bills 197 11 8
3a_ Beer for the whole time °f
ers and railing - - 65 16 10 hal
:nt Lumber - - 697 K 8 oui
he 426411 8 i y
S * imi fh.
That there has been receiv
to ed towards the above — un
' a P From the loan office funds of w l
rri- of the legislative ' Bri
xht grant of £ to,ooo, of which Ol
fed £*3°: J" is yet uncol
r lefled - - 7696 14 1 V
f And frum C. Febiger,
latetreafureroftheflate, .
een tweny-fivethoui'anddol- v "
hil- lars - - 9375 o o 01
ne- fr
lital T llis P 1 more 'han re- t j
j ceived from the legislature,
is borrowed,viz. - - 1811 6 it-2
V 1 On accounts not fully fettled, it ol
1 for is supposed iSere may be due ioco 00 vi
vere To complete the estimate of di
the building, it will require 4570 5 » b
ling , , ti
ar ] From this sum, which is the a
. / mount of the estimate ren
' ' dered lafl year, viz. 83811141-1 ''
•hey ' DEDUCT tl
sand The balance of £ 10,oso given fl
paid ' from the loan office fund, t
773- which is to be applied to the
building, when collected, viz. 1303 511 j.
And, there will then be want-'
>ng, in dft, to finil"h the M
Hof(ii;il, Sefii'es'the balanvi I *
0-0 of the loan offick fund 6078 5 5 i- v i ' ;
, ..I THOMAS MORRIS,
,J: V _ * SAMUEL CLARIS,
r THOMAS PENROSE, :
' . or JOHN DORSEY.
' cx " Philadelphia, ti mo. ißth, 1797.
Tranicribed from the minutes, by order of a
■ • * ' i i
i r ,„f, r the iif/irm-tion o; the are av
hoar. of m y"* e £V{lj"jre of- I'enniylvanii. tare 1
uiembe;t or COAXES, Secretary. you a
From the Ga/ette Hrftonqueet Politique
of thelM Bruraaire (Nov. 3.J not h
In the public fitting of the Executive Di
rectory of the 10th Broma.re. sth year
the Mongepronounced the follow- eJ
ing Speech : fro
Citizens DtreSors, _ per
Of so many enemies cpalefced againlt the 241
fifing Republic, there remains at last but t he
1 °"All the children of GAUL, formerly The
confederated a9 : one,nation, tore since that Lt
■ time from (tie fbnd ties which united them mo
—after twtuty ,lf vauous and iuc- to
ceifive slavery, ppud of forming but one rj
people, they will henceforth be restored to w,
their ancjeat virtue. . t al .% b
Even tkyfe among them, whom in time ral, a
of yore, error had perhaps led beyond the have
Alps, " and who finally stooped under the , tlon t
! yoke, after having long ftmggled against pleafc
, Servitude in a country, which their industry , f ubje ,
has fine* rendered so fertile, have of late , maje f
been witnesses of thebreaking of their chains lßg t
' and owe their new esrfftence to .a mother peace
country, which they never ceased to Jove. , we h;
In ftiort, of all the descendants ot the ble ai
Gauls, in Europe there is not one that re- perit;
cognizes a mailer. . t J IL ' O
omy happy country,thou doll: not know j the C(
" t0 w h 3 t a degree thou aftoniftieft the urn- | n i m<
verse, The valour of thy children forces -©£ C u
"" from' nations, Ihouts of admiration, the fi r ft
wisdom of thy old men command reipett, chara
thy virtues, have until now, blunted all the open (
° (hafts of envy jtfe.'f, open then thy eyes, „o m
!' and be Bo longer alone blind to thy glory, guise
Citizen Dire&ors, ed th
C You have not yet completed your talk, Jeter
' t and a new career, perhaps still more glon- peac ,
ous opens before you. hoftii
\ The liberty of Greece could not with- f a f ct -
Hand the treasures of a little king of a p ,< e te
b half savage people. The means of corrup- donei
tion in the hands of the tyrants of India are CO un
' far more powerful than those of the king ope n
of Macedonia. It is much longer, that the l aW s
d I government of England fuccefsfully wields ed tl
"hat weapon which disgraces it ; and how- sice '
I eVer great our virtues might be, it would be
" presumption on our part to believe ourselves and
g I less corruptible, than the Spartans and the U
I Athenians have been. The Englifti gov- ,ty w
e I ernment and the French Republic can there- God
fore not co-exift. _ the i
f You spoke, and already our terrible bri- been
gadea wield their arms, andScipio is at their to tl
* I head. prin
« I Had lin my country the authority which that
j Cato had acquired in Rome by great fervi- that
! I ces rendered to his country, and great vir- or 5
!_ I tues, I Ihould take care not to imitate him. defe
Destroy the government which has cor- jest)
u I rupted the morals of the whole world : but our
l t 1 preserve a nation to which Europe is indebt- ftitu
f led for a great portion of its knowledge, inde
n IDo not oppress a nation, that has given kno
e . I Newton to the universe : preserve a nation are
3 f I refpe&able by a patriotism, perhaps with- our
e _ I out example, and worthy a better govern- whi
Ll l I ment. Raise it to the dignity of a people, us,
[0 I complete its liberty, which it adores, and mol
h I teftore it to its natural virtues. Let the La\
I Englilh people subsist with_glgr£j_lst thsmL
, s Ibe emulous of the French people, let both his
' I vie with each other in concurring to the
I progress of knowledge and the perfei-tion I
los the human mind, and let there remain tha
100 rivallhip between them, but for the hap- tim
I pinefsof the world. Th
I Then, citizen directors, the field of glo- int<
an Iry will not yet be completely reaped. You due
<e- I will have in the interior two mortal enemies cor
n £ Ito Combat. Ignorance superstition : inti
°'* I You will have to destroy of all slaveries, can
I that which is most humiliating and fatal to pre
1 ft' I mankind. But you will spread inftrudtion sue
lat lin a manner fnited to every class of.citizens ; my
id I and in this wife distribution your care will to
VS: Ibe equally extended to the shepherd of our it i
I mountains and to th# inhabitants of our ci- ha*
ties. You will every where raise altars to wa
I truth. You will accustom the eyes of all fall
I the citizens to her august features, and you on,
I will no longer need to fear that she Ihould be dci
I mistaken : her consoling worlhip will no do
I longer be deserted for that of her frighfc
-1 ful rival.
Citizens direftors : more than 30 millions
los fouls count your every moment, and I th
I hasten. I Ihall not tell you of the glory of th
I our brave armies: that of the army of Ita- tia
® Ily has rcaehed the very reeeffei of upper E- Fi
"-1 I tJyP I ' le Arabians of the defart make it fid
J - I the fubjeft of their evening conversations oj
I under their tents. A dawn of I know not th
1 what kind of hope has foundits_way in the p«
J Breads of tlie descendants of the ancient
J Greeks, and their, hearts have beat with al
1 joy. The little children of Sparta and A- tl
I thens firig in French the hymn which form.
I ed our battalions andjthat which led them to
J vi&ory. They will soon sing that which pi
I our 'triumphs expeft ; and hymns, as -'n bi
ir I times of yore those ef Orpheus, pafling 1
I frofti mouth to mouth will run through na- rs
1 tions aHd go down to posterity. p
11-2 I Ma Y Erench republic remain virtu- ft
ous a» long as her sublime songs (hallinfpire ft
a venerition for the heroic virtuesofber fount;
ders, admiration for the courage of her ft
1 brave defenders, refpeft for the firft magif- , r
trates, and enthusiasm for liberty ! fc
But it is ufeful, that the republicans, the e
4I .j friends of the government we have chosen, f
the enthusiasts for liberty, and equality, f
fliould know, that the general in chief of t
the army of Italy is as commendable by his 1
devotion to the glory of his country, by ]
'J his refpeft for the laws of the republic, and t
by all the civic virtues, as he is celebrated (
Iby his afcendaney over vi&gj-y and by the 1
j wisdom with whfcHhe makes use of it. If
5 i-i another Plutarch had to speak of Buona
" parte, he would not compare him to Mii
tiades or Themiftocles, though there is some :
gjj analogy on the lcore of the services each
rendered his country : But he would com
pare him, J think, to Epaminondas.
er of a 0 revered names of Vercengetorix you
are avenged ! Hearken to consolation. Nat- 1
ture has taken twa thoufahd years to give
you a fucceflor . He has all your virtues.
In a more enlightened age you would h*ve
possessed his talents, and happy Gaul would ]
not have known llavery. Hll
■ 1 Cadiz
By the ship Alexander, capt Geary, arrjv port,
ed the id inft. at Norfolk, in 36 days i.ons ;
from Glasgow (Scotland), London pa- , pmt t
pers to the 21 ft Nov and Glasgow to the , tugal
24th have been received: They contain offof
the following: _
The humble ef the Rc. Hon. the filing
Lords Spiritual andTcmporal,.and Com- preve
mons in Parliament alFemWed, presented Spain
to his maieftv on Wcdnefday, November cngal
j r , 707 , with his Majesty's answer
We yo'ir moll <lutiial and lay- TtAf
|al fal.jeCLS, the Lords Spimual and Tempo- court
: ral and Commons in Parliament aflembled, try, 1
have taken into our most serious confidera- with
| tion the papers which your Majesty has been gea C )
pleased to direst to be laid before us, on the In
fubieft of the negociation into which your checq
! majesty had entered, with a view of reftor- depre
ing to your people a secure and honorable Ac
peace. In every stage of that tranfaftion • rally"
!we have recognized your majesty's mvana- 1 Frenc
j ble and unremitted folicitudc for our prof- 0 f C<
perity and wtlfare; while we h.ve ft en on' Ov
the other hand the most ol of Sf
the continuance of that spirit Oi inveterate ; amity
Inimofity and desperate ambition on the part j of ha
• ©four enemies, in which the present contest j Prufii
firft originated. Your majesty's conduft soon 1
by an unexampled moderation, view,
openefs and coniifteßcy,has lefttothe enemy Tl
no means of evasion, no of dif- St. A
guise or artifice. It can no deni- j layinj
ed that their conduft is aftuated by a fixed , circu:
determination ot excluding all means of'j to th
peace, and of pursuing, at all hazards, their ' watc
hostile designs against the happiness and L(
fafcty of these kingdoms. Even the vain the 1
pi'etence of pacific dispositions is new aban- tons,
doned, and the real purpose of all their ever
councils, and all their measures is at length even
openly and publickly avowed. It is to our watei
: laws and government that they have declar- disco
» ed their irreconcileable hatred. No - thou;
■ sice will content them, but that of our Li- thorr
: berty; no concelTion, but that of our envied A
> and happy constitution. coast
: Under such circumstances we feel the du- thori
■ ,ty which we owe, in this great cn§s, to ted t
• God and to our country. Animated by on tl
the fame sentiments which your Majesty has tions
- been pleased to declare to your people and sea,
r to the world; attached to your Majesty by ing I
principle, duty and gratitude, and sensible be it
r thatitisonly from courage, and firmnefs Frai
- that we can look, either fer present fafety rebe
•or permanent peace; we are determined to N
. defend, with unlhakcn resolution, your Ma- ters
- jefty's Throne, the lives and properties of terir
t our fellow fubje&s, the government and con- e d t
ftitution of our country, and the honor and vvou
independence of the Britilh empire. We. tkre
n know that great exertions are necelfary; we ever
n are prepared to make them; and placing of 1
1- our firm reliance on that divine protection peai
1- which has always hitherto been ext-ended to ]S
r, us, we will support your majesty to the ut-
d most, and stand or fall with our Religion, vinj
ie Laws and I-iberties. by
h HIS majesty's MOST GRACIOUS ANSWER, the
ie My Lords and Gentlemen, rat<
n Nothing could be more fatisfadtory to me the;
In than this unanimous declaration of the fen- or ;
3- timents of my two houses of Parliament. — ]
They are such as the conduit and declared a dz
a- intentions of the enemy could not fail to pro- the
>u duce. We are engaged in a cause which is p lo
es common to us all; and contending for every o r s
: interest which a free and independent nation tim
s, can have Under the blessing of dot
to providence I look with confidence to the if- use
an sue of this great contest: but in every event
s; my resolution is taken. It is luch as I owe is 1
ill to G«d, to my county, and to myfelf; and tio
ur it is confirmed by tie sentiments which you p e;
:i- have this day declared to me. I will not be th;
to wanting to my people, but will stand or ftn
all fall with them, in the defence of our religi- for
du on, and in the maintenance of the indepen- ; s
be dcnce, laws, and liberties of these king
no doms. vie
1V W
PARIS, November 10. ha
ms It i 9 said that the Directory demands of of
1 I the American Plenipotentiaries : ift. whe- ar i
of ther their inftruftions allow them to give fa- pa
ta- tisfadtion for the outrage gfFer.ed to the at
E- French government, in the speech the Pre- th
:it fident made on the 16th of May last', at the' r o
sns opening of Congress ? and 2dly, whether cc
not they are authorized to re-establish the ref
the -pe&ive-peiitiee >l* which thiy fr 1 f^' SouJTiP "<Jt
ent 1778, and to annul in the posterior treaties di
•ith all the clauses injurious to the interests of th
A- the French republic ? rc
rm. November 11. tl
Ito The negociations at Udina were on the n'
lich point of being broken.off on the evening
; n before the signing of the Treaty of Peace, ti
Ping The Austrian plenipotentiaries obstinately F
11a- refufed to cede Mantua. Buonaparte, im- tl
patient of the resistance, declared the con- fc
rtu- fer.ences to be finilhed, and that the sword ai
pire should decide the dispute. He rose, and e(
>un- taking up his hat suddenly, the feather in it n<
her struck against some porcelain vases of the C
igif-, richest kind, and threw them down. He
begged pardon of the Austrian commiflion- f(
the ers, and observed, he was sorry they would o
>fen, soon have to break still more valuable vef- a
lity, fels. He left Udina immediately, and re- tl
ef of turned to his head-quarters at Pafteriano. n
y his Next day at 5 o'clock in the morning the a
by Marqtii»de Gallo came to him and declared t
and that the Emperor would agree to ttye con- (1
•.".ted ditions offered the night before. T(ie,p>ace
j the wa« signed In the course of the day. j
If 2
iona- LONDON, November it. <
Mil- Dispatches were received at the Admiral- 1
some ty from Adtpiral Lord St. Vintent, dated
each from the Tagii3, where his lordlhip arrived
com- on the 19th ult. with the following (hips
belonging to his fleet :
you Ville de Paris Swiftfure
Sk°T
Princess Royal n [
Blenheim }
Beflerophon Hector!'"
His lordlhip lert 10 fail of the li ße off
Cadi/., to continue the blockade of ,1 5
port. The fleet had plenty of frefh provi .
■ lions and wine, the fhip'a allowance bei n „ a
■ j pint of wine a day, and the Queen 0 f p£ r .
X.tl^L of 1 i" 0 ™ 1
: tiling oti towards the frontier of France to
■ prevent the French troops from entering
ufal* U " 3 prctence <)f " ,va<^n g Por-
November 14. 1
' extraordinary from the' I
court of Lisbon, is on his way to this coun
, try in order to be on the foot to consult
■ with h, 3 majesty's minifterff 0 n any emer
' gfney.
" In consequence of the new issue of ex
checq jer bi.-ls, the funds yesterday felt j
• depression of half per cent.
■ Advices have been received at the admi.
t ; ralty from Sir John si. Warren, of the
l rench meditating a descent upon the coast
01 Cornwall.
' 1 Overtures have bee i made from the court
ot bpain to this country, for a renewal of
► I 3l J", ty 'nv' th 1 T iew to tte recommencement
!° f h ° ftl .'*«y w,t l? France ! The king of
j Prufha is collecting a large army, and will
t loon be subsidized by England with the fame
, view.
t The lad dispatches from Admiral Earl *
- St. Vincunt state, that the Spanish were
- 1 laying up all their ships for the winter. This
5 r circumstance induced his lordship to return
f j to the Tagus, having left a squadron to
r watch the cijrtjjj.
1 Lord St. Vincent has discovered. that
1 the Tdgus Ts navtgabte~ 0 f 300
- tons, at lead 12 leagues higher than it had
r ever been imagined by the Portugueltj that
i even a small boat could Venture. It was the
r watering party of the fleet that made this
- discovery ; they found, where the natives
- thought navigation impracticable, four fa
- thorns of water, and good anchorage.
d Accounts received yesterday from the
coast of France contradict those on the au
-- thority of which it was some time finee fta
o ted that the fleet at Bred was dismantling ;
y on the contrary, ,it is now said great exer
ts tions are making to fit a strong squadron for
d sea, the general idea ptevailing is, that dur
y ing the winter months, a new attempt will
le be made against Ireland, which country, in
fs France, is considered as in a state of actual
y rebellion. J
0 Nov. 15. It is certain, that the last let
-- ters from Lilbon declare iu the most decided
if terms, of the Spanish court
1- ed to the Portuguese government, that it
id would not fuffer any French troopstomarch
r c tbrottgh- Byuni t" &ltv.i!ti?oytugalir It ir
re even intimated in some letters, that the court,
ig of Madrid was about to make a separate
>n peace with this country,
to NAUTICAL INTELLIGENCE,
it- Very far from the republic of France ha
-11, ving given up the idea of any future efforts
by sea, we are enabled to state from un
doubted authority, that Mr has 24 (hips of
the line at present building, 9of them firfl ,
rates ; and the exertions used to complete
ne them, are unequalled in the history of that
:n- or any other nation.
- Every person who can use the ax or the
ed adze, and can be procured, though altogr
fti- ther unacquainted with (hip building, is em
-lis ployed in the interior, under proper diui£!u
■ry ors, in cutting out, boiling and shaping the
on timber, and the whole is conveyed to the
of dock-yards, entirely ready for the various
if- uses required.
snt As the timber they make use of however,
we 1 is by no means properly seasoned, the dura
nd tion of their (tips rnuft be (hortj and it ap
rou pears improbable that they can man them j
be J that they are determined either to try their
or j strength again on the ocean, or to attempt
igi- some expedition of the greatest consequence
en- I is past all doubt.
ng- I The admiralty have received certain ad
-1 vice that the Toulon fleet is arrived at Brest.
j We have not learnt the number of (hips that
j have stolen round and evaded the vigilance
sos of Our fleets; but the rumour is, that they
he- J are fix (hips of the line. Tnis must be that
: fa- [ part of their fleet therefore, which was left
the j at Toulon when the expedition was mad/ to
Ppe- j the Adriatic sea ; and the (hips of that fquad
the I ron are not included in the fleet that has
ther 1 come round to Brest.
res- I This meaCure Xeecns to indicate a ferioas
<3 Tnjdeftgifofa new armament at Brell. Accor
ities I dingly, if we may give credit to rumour,
s of I the (hips which had gone into the inner
I road have come again into the outer, where
I they are now lying at anchor, 17 fail in
the I number.
ning In addition to the above inference re.a
:ace. tive to the naval preparations making by the
itely French, we states, from the best authority,
im- I thatthe Spaniardshave thirty-three crthirty
con- four (hips of she line at Cadiz, eqnipptd
vord and ready for sea, befidei 8 (hips of the line
and equally equipped, lying ir, Algebras bay,
in it near Gibraltar, and a pretty strong fleet at
: the Carthagena. .
He A bill is to be broueht into the Hotile
Eon- for the proteflion of the underwriters, to
•ould oblige all trading veffcle to fail with convoy,
■ vef- and not to leave it for the fake of gaming
d re- the firft, of a market . This is to be oone by
iano. making it impoff.ble far them to break bulk
r the after they anive in the port of their deftina
'\vrA I tion, until the convoy with which the) faded
con- (hall alio arrive.
ace I November ifY
Yesterday French papers of the Bth, 1 ith
j and 12th, were received in town, but their
contents arc! of little importance. Permiffiun
rural- has been given to French cruisers to capture
dated Portuguese vcffels, in consequence of the
rrived | nou-ratification of the treaty of peace,
ftiios 1 We have already stated, and on lurther
I enquiry we find, very accurately, the gcDer.u
I outH. c? of Mr, Pitt's financial fchtnie, which
/** -j d >u'ti t, tijiblc-, aid in ft<me'iuftanccs
i qtudruph {he aTcflfed taxes. 3t which •
rtrh individual is rated, for three years to ■
come. This.alTeflmeiit is calculated to ptb- i
dtiC* From 8 to 9 millions yearly ; but as
tlie fisppHl» of the etifuing year aro chiefly
to be raised on its produce, there must of
courfc be a confidcrable drawback on the
sum total, by thetnonies paid for advances
and discount. The whole sum to come into
the exchequer by this plan, connot there- 1
fore Tse calculated at more .than from 20 to •
21 millions fttrlinp.
November 20. '
Letters from Madrid, received by the '
IJlbon mail of Saturday, appear to confirm
the statement, that the Co;irt of Spain re- /
fufes to admit of the French troops march- I
ing across (hat country to attack the froti- !
tcir of Portugal. There are no longer any 1
warlike prepartious making in the Spanish |
ports ; the troops are moreover withdraw- c
ing from the Portuguese frontier, and the j
camp of St. Roche. The Spanifli ministry c
has undergone a considerable change, of '
■which the Prince of Peace is no longer a 1
member. The exchange of couriers be- \
tween the two courts of Madrid and Lisbon ■■
during the last month, has been more fre- c
quent than at any period during the war, r
All the accounts, both public and pri- /.
vate, state that the utmost harmony con «
tinues between the allied courts of Spain q
and Portugal. r
A squadron, to be commanded by Ad- t
miral Lord Duncan, is ordered to be fitted r
out immediately, for the purpose of cruizing c
in the North Seas, before the winter sea- r
fon sets in. His Lordship had an inter- j
■view with the Lords of the Admiralty '
yesterday on the fubjeft. j
NORFOLK, January 4. F
The following paragraph concerning our '
Commissioners, taken from a Glasgow pa- t
per of the of .NoveitiW, c»rreljj£>nds.. a
with that under the Paris date of Novem- 1
ber 10. , 1
Letlers received here from London mtn- l:
tion it as a current report there, that the r
French'had refufed to treat with the Ameri- '
can Commissioners, unless they would, as a j
„ preliminary, annul their treaty with this r
country ; and that the Commissioners having
no such powers, had, in ccm£equence, been 0
ordered to quit Paris, "
Arrived on Wednesday, in distress, the d
brig Bet fey, Captain Phepin, from Leith a
bound to New- York, having on board the
Capiain and crew of the (hip Commerce, u
belonging to Ss. George's' (Grenada,) w
which foundered at fsa on the 6th ult. in lf
lat. 36,4 long. 66, 34, having a valuable f<
cargo on board. e
P
mmumi » h
Xf)e c!sasCtte. «
PHILADELPHIA, j*
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY 15. I ™
IMIW I ! d!
For the Gazette of the United States. j B
Reflections on Monroe's "View." in
No. IX. if
A fifth ail ef inifco»duisl in our late minister 3
vill attract attention, upon readinghis pamphlet.
ibe French republic in proj*rt t B ft rft4ik I
loan, from the United nj money to enttttie it
to profectAe the u-ar ; a nieafure which he was Pet au- j
thorifed to take, and which would have inevitably
drawn them from a state of neutrality, and vtoilld ;
have rendered them the uiihappy and humble de- ' c |,
pendents cn the fortune and wiil of France j
The secretary of state, Mr. Randolph, ia his > t i,
letter of the icth June. 1794, (page 3) after ob- ! f u:
firving that the mrftion to London, if it should fn
fail", M r ould tend'to-unite the people of the Utiited
trfev tbi# eoncifc ahd &ne<jtiivoeal language : wi
" This may be briefly touched upon as the path of re;
prudence mith refpe<ft to ©urfelves, and also with un
refpedl to France, fines •we are unable to give her aids '
of men or money" wt
Thefo exprefliens must he admitted to be plain I
•nough to be underftcod by every body. 41 We to
are unable to give ber aids of men or money" can have l Cr
but one meaning. If this fentiniene of the exccu
tivehad been spread over pages, it ispoflib'.e, out T 1
of a multitude of words, some colour or fubter- °-
fuge miehfc have been foand the part
which Mr. Monroe ailed when he encouraged, s ou
and even explained »o the committee the outlines tak
of a :planfor obtaining a large sum of money on Yo
loan from the Um't*d States to enable France to pro- all,
focute the Vnr in Europe, which he thought they fun
wete able and willing to lend. On this occasion eve
we shall find him tranlgrefling the limits of his in- ava
ftru(slicns, and pursuing the ©bjeet tnoil dear to his a *e
heart, and never out of t»>s view ; the obje£i of taci- 1
ing the United States to the French republic. I am a- na *'
ware, that the mere closely Mr. Monroe shall have P^ at
(luck to thU principle, the more effectually he 1
must have recommended himfelf to the democrats,
or Jacobins, of America; yet, as I love justice, and cr(
wifti not to derogate from his merits with this def- rc
cripti6n of his fellow-citizens, I lhall not pass r e
without notice, this evidence of the slavish fplrit
which generally marks hia-ouiprofit'aMe or perm'ci- m"
ous ministry.
Relative to this fubjcd:, Mr. Monroe, on the w i7|
30th November, 1794, wrote to the secretary of t h c i
state a letter, of which the N following are extradts : mo f
"In the close of this affai^-f'Was invited by the drea
diplomatic memberscommittee of public faft i
fal'ety, to a upon a new topic. I was trust
informeiit was their intention to prefsthe war a
painft England in particular, but that they were
dillrefled f6r funds, andwasalked, could any aid
be obtained from the United States. / told him I
ivas fatisfsd, if it it os in tbeirpower, it ivould be ren- J
dered; that I poiTefled 11$ power on the fuhje3, and mi v
could only advise on the probability, &c. but with *
their permifiion I would put on paper such ideas P
as occurred to me in to that point, and up- 13
on which 1 would a(terwards more fully confer, amc
&c. (page 71.) j
" No ather arrangement can well be made than
that of leading fn.nry to France, if in our power; "
it being undcrlW od flie will secure, at tie time of her 7 0u
c-.on peace, the complete recognition of our rights the
from Britain and Sjram, and which (he may easily ever
do, in my judgment, and without prolonging the
war a monisut on thataccoont, &c " (page 73.) ,
Alter extolling the power and fuccefi'es of Fiance, mu
headtis, " In any it will produce such effeift, cxer
thit if America strikes the blow her own intereil an c
Onaates, arid every other consideration promj>ts, it ence
mull be decisive ; and if not ruinous to the for f omi
tunes of that proud and insolent nation, will cer- n
taiuly procure u, theokjedls we have in view." P a 1
I will here put a few queftlons : When Mr. Mon- IS a '
roe was told, in his inftjuilions, " that the United thor
States were unable to aid Franc* with money," by (tarn
what authority did he dtfire permiHion to put his have
ideas en paper relative to a loan of moiiey., and a- ,
pin to confer on that point ? Why did he so forci- ' lie t
bly encourage the Prejdent to come into the ir.ea- fenci
sure of (lie loan ? Why doe; the reprcJcntstiVe 01 be si
ICC-5 a n«!OB Ufatiyi! W Ifn '.t ; :tm\e m ,tral, incite 1
lich' ' A toflvikeablo-.v that might he ruinous to j
t,!K fortunes of a I'reat \*ith whom we '
j were'a&uiU)- atpeacss -Vn.: at t&U Moment afluit- J
5Tb- j Ijr negotiating, as he must have believed, a treaty ! ;
t. as of air.ity ? What wasthe blow which Mr. Monroe 11
gfly idvifed ?
t *of require explanation, they <
the W '" e by his note to the com- j
mittee-of public fatety, of which the following j'
!ces are extrafls—('page 82 ) j 1
nto "Ir is rte wilh of the French republic to ob- '
ere- tain by loan a sum of money from the United 1 <
sto States of America, to enable it to pr«fecute the ' |
war. This is to be expelled from three fuiirc- I
es ; the general government, the state govern- ' j
Went, and from individuals. The French caife J'
and the French nation are greatly regarded in '
irm America, and 'I am- perfuo-Aedfomt money may 1
re- be obtained, and Qtrkapi a ?vyr re/pelt able sum, J
ch- frpw the thfe; sources |lMfc mentioned. For >
011- this ]:urpofe, the mifiifler fool)!/i po_n!if> l piiwu'to c
shy the 1
:iifh security as the republic shall deem .
sui table, &c " Some account is privrn of our
claims upon Grtat-Brita n and Spain, and the r
the BO te proceeds—" If the United St:tes were aIT- c
try ured that thiy would have no oecafion for th; ir t
of own resources to support a war against those < :
r a powers, it would of course be more in their
be- P°^ er to ' en J them to the French republic" &c.
>on " Tl,efum . which m 'S h t be raised in America 1
r from the different fonrces above mei»oned, up
rre" on an alurance of this kisd, would in mr judg- <
, ment be considerable* In any event, however, /
3ri- /hall be happy to give the mln'tjler about to depart,
on every information and aid in mr bower, in for
ain warding the object in view."
Though Mr Monros had b«n told in his inflrufti- 3
ons that tie United S-aics could nM aid France witn '
vd- money, here is apr jest for obtain® a sum of money
ted on loan, which he communicated in wruin> to the
ing Committee', arid which he thought would be nhtain
. 6 ed, if we could be allured by Fiance that we ihould c
ea " not need our rcl'ourcet for vindicating our rights a
ter- gainst Bri am and Spain. The turn contemplated was q
llty to ur or five millions of dollars, and the plan ot Mr.
Monroe was that this sum Ihould be advanced on
loan it France would promise to fetUre to us when t
,it(hould make pe«ce, the navigation of the Mtifilip \
pi, the weltern polts, and would protest us againtl
our ,h « Algeiines In bis letter of the 2d Ijeccmber
1794, to the Secretary ©t St?tc, he writes concerning 11
P®" the loan in this manner, " I (incerely wilh we may
aHUt.lbem if poflible, and which 1 presume it will- 0
:tn- he, especially if not comprised in the war and whidi
I think cannot be although wc should immediately
wrelt from Britain and Spain the rights they have 0
0- ulurped from us, &c. &c. lam peifuaded the a- 1
the mount eKprfled might be ob'ained by loan, and lam
»ri- equally so that the people would cheerfully bear a tax,
the produil ot which was to be applied in aid of the "
French republic. Upon these topics I have only a
"IS right to conjefture," &c (page 91) n
ing ' w jH fay no more upon this palpable difregarri
of his inftruflions, and his direst counteraftion of the °
pacific and neutral policy of the executive. The pro- v
jeil, if it had been carried into effeft, would have
the delivered this country bound hand and foot, into the
Ith ,rrnl of the French republic. The length and breadth
.t of it was, that we Ibould lend our money and trust
to France for protection and for obtaining justice for S
Ce, us from Britain and Spain at some future day, namely,
3,) when it Ihould make peace with those nations. Thus
in P" ce be deferred ever so long, America
, . was to continue all that time without compeefation
t) C for fpo'iatinns on our commerce, without the weft- tl
em polls, and without the navigation of the MifliHip
pi, America was also to put its resources into the
5* hands of France, and confide its mod essential inter- te
j efts, and ( might fay it* very being, to the power
I and will of the French republic.
To recommend the projefl Mr. Monroe Hated, that
we might lend the money to France to prolecute the „
| war ; and remain at peace with all the belligerent &
j nations. Is it possible that he could really entertain
| such an opinion ; or was he insidiously intending te
I diaw OS into the war on the fide of France. Surely
I amain would not bavebelield us affording to France
f I loan of money to carry on the war without resent- or
I ing a departure from neutrality so inluffeiable : and I
! if Britain should have resented it there must bavo been f_
ler i a rupture. Besides, how wrest the posts from Great
lit. Britain withouTwar ? Being once involved 011 the w
,jy ! fide of thatinfatiable republic, the blood and trta- I
.■it OTJ . r .country would have been laviO.rd. and «
tu- "«er would t thmK that we dxi enough till Britain Z
jly ,° u a dd;d to her conquered couatries—from '
thls mo!t dangerous snare molt fortunately wc were t.h
Se- £ ' ,e Kritilh treaty : After that was con- th
| c ' u ded t cur minilter and the committeedefiilcd from
! pressing the projeft, until it should be known whe- .
, thcr the treaty Was rejtaed or not ; for which mea- CI;
sure Mr. Monroe's letters, Haling the fiiendly difpo- Ti
lid fmon of France, held out very strong inducements,
ed In his juftificator y letter of the ,2 th February nq<,
c- w.mng on this point he fays, "iForat that time I hiid 1°
of reafor. to believe that it (France) contemplated to take
th «f"ter ,ts care and to provide so, our orotc«i„n aoainll : no
ids Algiers, for the expulfian of the Britilh from the 1 w .
wetlsrn peifts, and the establishment of our rights '
in V' tn -'•pain to the free navigation of the Mifliffippi,
Ve to be execßted in a mode we (bou dprefer.and upon r
ve terms perft-aiy easy to tis; terms in short, which
u _ fought only the aid of our credit to obtain a loan from
n our own banks for an inconfidcrable sum ( 5 millions
r . dollais) to be laid out in the purchase of urovifions Jai
rt OU ' owo Cuun "y< to he reimbursed if bolftbiehy me
themjelves, . &c. Generous nation 1 kind ana good ph:
■ louls ! so is your benevolence you would of
take under your ca're all the n.tjons of the world. m
You would administer justice ar.d mercy ambng them Vq
0- all, without any earihlv reward but the fubHme plea v
y ,urc °* doing good. With you virtue is the rule of vr:"
»n every atlion. With you rhofa, terrible paflions of v
]- avarice and ambition, the feourges of the human race c
is only known in name. 1
£. These, or such as these, may have been the imagi- ' /
t- infatuated, miijiftei, when he contem-- »i> e
r e plated the United' .States uqder the pro. and care at a
ie of the JFrench republic, /(t that period tfie example
of Batavia had not been preferred to the world. It is i f
here we may now bcjiold in reality the miserable, c
> wreichfd and hopeless condition of a r-eople undfti c«' v
" s domination of France. Drained of millions to
t support the French armies, frugality and indtfttry q
banished from the world, commerce dettioyed, and as '
W U T H rr t S i?i i tr ' l n ' ! eftablilbment, cal |
neglcttctl or forblefden. we may there fee a lepublic
e without a wi;l, and iodivldujlswithout a power over P
thetr persons or Droperty. There we may fee ihe
: most dep.orable slavery, political and civil. Let this
e dreadlul example be a warning. Let America hold Shi
c faft its resources and remember always, they can be ]
9 trulted no where but in the hand of Ame icans.
SCIPIO,
.in arn
i
r SAYS A CORRESPONDENT.
r . . , bou
• it 13 with pleanire we announce tp the "j
public the formation of a foeiety for the ex- Loi
press purpose of aiding the Civil Authority 1
ia the fupprefiion of vice and immorality, and
, amoug which vices, that of profane swear- fevc
i»g, which has now arrived to a dreadful r J
and awful height, especially among the Liv
youth, is not the lcaft. The violation of r ]
the Sabbath is so (hamefully notorious, that Nev
every well meaning inhabitant of this once failt
highly favoured city, on serious reflexion
must be sensible that it calls for their united 1
exertions to avert the solemn judgments of Skii
an offended God, by obtaining the interfer- Bat;
ence of the legislature now in feflion, to pass on s
some law that will punilh the guilty. The prni
pafling of the stage coaches on the Sabbath,
is also a serious evil, which calls for the au- I
thority of the land to prevent. We under- derf
(land that a committee of the said foeiety, Dov
have notified their to inflict caj>t
the riine, which is four doi'ari 'Or tvery of- ed u
fence so committed, and t{)is will ther
be fufficieiit notice to the; j ■,!•*. 5
"s''to I °f 'M. itatU ■ forth day at j
\ve i , Lift r..
nut- ! Thiirfday the 19?!) being the
city I anniversary of the Pr.eSdent's birth, wai
tiroe | celebrated at Lifb&i hy Mr. Smith, the
; of the United Stated at that court,
a-n- i w^°.S ave on the occaGon an entertainment j
ring l at IS hotel at Buenos Ayres, to a nume- j
j rous and refpe&able company of" A nr,erican j
ob- captains and citizens. After lixtc'en j>atri
ited j otic toasts intermixed wit ; h convivial
the the company having- spent the day with
. great good humor and fefiivity, broke up '
( - e jat nine o'clock, much pleased with the oc- 1
lin I ca^lon which had coiletSed together so ma- :
nay ny Americans at such a diftajiee from hon le.
Ail the American Veffels'irMbe barber were i
Fr>r gaily decorated; and at tw'rtVe o'clock a-fie- '
■siQ (ieral ialnte of gtfns was fired 7 by i
•em' fcrne ° f the ™ ,lon " r of t,le antl 3t
our five o'c'oek in the afternoon tile falut'e was | 5
the repeated. Th;s anniversary on a '
all- day, highly diftingitTned in the annals of
nir the American revolution-by the fu.ryender t
",- C °f York-ToWtt, the recolledion of so auf- 3
&.c P event could not fail to increase " l
rica '^ e happiness °f the company.
up . . TOASTS e
dg. Given at the American Mimfter's at Lif- 1
r,J bon on the celebration of the President's 1
\rt, Birth Day, 19th O&oKer. a
or ~ !• The Day we celebrate, and long life 1
|ft| _ and happiness to the Piefident of the United
, lttl States. o
"H 2. The United States—May they long I
en joy peace, prosperity, and a free and fuc- l '
~l lcj cefsful trade. 3
.a- 3. Her mod faithful Majesty, the Queen b
»' a! of Portugal.
ta 4- The late President, George Wafliing
{icn ton, now the illustrious Farmer of M6unt
lip Vernon.
' b °," 5- To t}le memory of the American He
roes, who fell before the lines at York-town, h
o»y 6. The Marquis De La Fayette a/id the' v
«"«• other surviving conqutrdrs of Yorfc.town. si
ely 7. 'An early and permanent r&oftciliatl- e
ave on between the United States and o
•=- Republic, on terms honorable to both. fl
aT, , 8 * A . f P eed F and ldftin g peace between
the' '^ e belligerent powers. t ]
y 9. The American flag—may it wave un- p
molefted in every quarter of the Globe, and o
the nav 'g at ion be as refpeded, as sur na- r;
ro- vigators are refpe&able. p b
»vc 10. To the recovery of Mr. John Bulke- a:
£ h e ley, the steady friend of the United States, b
uft lit The late Min'ifter of the United ft
for States at Lisbon. , ft
:| y> 12. The Secretrry of State of the Uni- r <
ica ted States g
on 1 3- The Secretary of the Treasury of i 5
;ft- the United States.
14- The Secretary of War of the Uni- a<
f r ! ted States. 3
ier 15. The American Envoys at Paris. o
16. Smooth seas and pleasant gales. h
:nt Extraß of a letter from Manchejter (England)
lin dated November 11, received by the
I* J a y> "rrivedMl New-Tori. b
- u
on has again broken off with the French, and C
nd I believe that this time it has not been our Ci
c " t fault that peace is not concluded . those ti
he are now at the head of affairs in France t<
1. lam afraid are men of very indifferent prin- 7
id FrpleE, and -fhey have been fol&ng engaged
m i» plundering the property of others, that r 5
■re they will not give up the praftice as long as tl
they cancoßtinue it. To what other mo- ni
'J! can we attribute their refuting to nego- hi
a- ciate with S(hc delegates you have lent over? h;
o- They wilh to plunder your /hips. ft
• our papers as yesterday njentianed that ea
your delegates had orders to leave France as ih
He j soon 33 convenient to them ; this', 'however, ti
ill ; not from authority, and I (liould be glad ve
wasit to prove falfe." ° g r
<i, th
% GAZETTE MARINE LIST. jJ
m *'
„s Arrived at New-York, t'.e (hip Eliza, captain
ns James Allen, after apiiffago of 4a f rot » T ac . d'
by mel, in whom came jaflVngic, Mr. Francis Cr>p- to
Jd prngCTfOf this city, ,11 crtiia.it ; the condemnation ge
d Of. his fil.p, the Kitiy, a ,d of her cartfb, whieh
i. was of great took place feme days previous
tp his arrival in,ihe Weft-Indies. ex
'f v S K h< i?"m i ,U 'r ,n3 ' Y' Ca, y ' of this P° r£ - from Caac > s
>f York" ° has arn " d 'New- th
e "^ P P re * cran «'. Wil Jiamfon, from hence, 4
arrived at Port au Prince. loi
I*. Vicaj-v of lchower Juliana informs, that on at,
' - theSth inft. he (poke bng Liberty, for this port, .hen "
at anchor 8 miles iouth of Cape Ma*.
C , , ]' hc a r kove bri ß » supposed to be the Liberty, El
1S lerfon, from Aux Cayes.
• M ' Pherfon ' fromhence ' has arrived a.
° Sc.hr. Harriet. Da Costa, hence at St. Croix. fie,
i ,£■ Ben r S ' °' D r P l,ch ' fr °™ Amfttrdam, off
i'?n, p T eek A°" " hc coa ". - fehooner "I
called The Polly of Province Town," without any
person on board. 7 Rf,
e New-York, Jan. 13. sea
s arrived days so 1
J Ship Elizabeth, Djniels, Bengal. UM
Neptune, ,C. N. Mole, 27, pro
Ihe Ihip Pearl, Latimore, from this port the
arrived at Liverpool, Nov. ,4, in 40 days . me
Ihe Hazard, Drummond, from London mai
bound to th/s port, passed Gravefend Nov.B nan
The mail for the November packet left «r o t
• London on the Bth. j^ a|
Ihe Jofiah Collins, Blair, for this port, to«
and the Jane, Barron for Norfolk, failed pris
several days before the Jay. cue
Ihe Minerva, from Virginia, is arrived at gre;
Liverpool, j
xt br 'S Europe, Cannon, from Bru
New ( aftle, on Tyne, bound to this port, he i
failed the beginning of Nov. attg
Cowes, Nov. 8. has
Ihe American ship Indian Chief, captain it w
Skinner, arrived here with a full cargo from him
Batavia, is detained hy Sir Hugh Chriftim havi
on stifpicipn that the cargo is neither tile but
property of ourenemks or neutrals ! • J as t
. ■ Bujlov, Jan. 8. wer
Lau evening arrived, Brig Diana, Hen- inm
derfon, from London, £2 days from the witl
Downs. She anchored near theCallle. The ofa
capt. came to town in his boat, and favor- dyti
ed us with the following lift of vcffels ltft will
the c r f!~. r , n affai
Ships Mancheftsr.Shewell, Enc
rjr at j Hope, Cal-a'nan, haling
to Liverpool; Ann, Savage, B<jllou; Nan
; the cy, Joy, do; Bnilol, Smith, 2s r ew York;
wai Fam?, Dur y, t'.oi Ttr:fa, Dulr-1, Char*
, the lefton; Roebuck, , do: S. Carolina,
ourt, Rooinfon, Di-nna. Hutchins, Balti
me:it j more; Curren, Norfolk; brigs
time- DifpatcTi, Rinker, Philadelphia; Paddy,
riean I O'Drilcol, Ctiarlcdon; Union, Britt,
■atri- North Carolina; Mineral Spring, Biffett,
jrig's, Nl w-York, failed in company with the big
with Hazard, Drummond, of Georgetown, Pen
. up obfcot River, bound to New-York; and
f oc- Ihip Marv, White, as Providence, bound
, ma- to Charleiton.
ofne. Schr. Induftn', Stiufen, of|Baflon, last
were from Bourdtltux, and bound to Altona,
a-fe- w as token into Falmouth, by a Bri;ifn fp.
1 by gale, and is thought to be condemned,
dat Arrived ship Recovery, Ropes, CalciMa
1 via Saleni. Left at the Cape ot Good Hope
an a OH. 26, ship Fox, Whippey of New-Bed- <
s of ford, last from De'ago Bay, with 200
nder bblsofl, and bound to the coast of Brazil, 1
auf-
J all well. The ship Christiana, Stephens,
- e -f e arrived at the Cape the 24J11, and failed for
PJoJaneira the next day. The ship Min- ]
erva, Loring, of Boston, from Batavia, was
Lif- tn ken off cape Lagullus, by a frigate, about :
;nt » B the 12 th of October. The ship America, 1
of Boston failed from the Cape for India, ;
■ ]{f e the 23d Ofttber. (
ited The Britilh frigate Thetis, being in chafe .
of a privateer, which was supposed to be (
ong the latter hoisted so much fail, as I
f uc _ to overset : when half her crew (between >
30 and 40) were drowned- It proved to 1
leen be a British privateer from New Providence. 1
ing . By this day's Mai!. !
lunt " '
NEW-YORK, Jan. tg. 1
He- Great rejuicings and illuminations were '
wn. had at the Hague on the news of peace bet- '
the' vveen Austria and France. It is also said
wn. from thence, that a monument is to be er
ati- e£kd between Egmond and Wick, in honor
nch of the gallant defenders of the Batavian
flag, on the 12th O&ober.
een At the late sessions of the Legislature of
the state of North-Carolina, 78 acts were
un- passed. During this fitting many instances [
and of frauds in the obtaining military land war
na- rants and grants were discovered, and will
be pursued to issue ; forged certificates, and
ike- alignments of warrants, seemed to have •]
tes. been the principal means of effe&ing the
ited frauds. The secretary is proposed to be
; suspended ; various - persons are put under '
Jni- recognizance to answer unto certain char*
ges, and the books and papers of Martin
of Artjiftrong dire&ed to be seized upon.
The Legislature of Sauth-Carolina have
Jni- adjourned. During their feflion they passed
33 a£ts. Dr. Kennedy, supposed to be
one of the assassins of Robert Maxwell, esq.
has been taken.
"d) BOSTON. January 8.
the Accounts were yesterday received in town
by Express, from Portland, announcing the
ati- unpleasant tidings of the loss of the ship
and Grand Turk, together with a part of her
©ur cargo: The following are the most authen- 1
iofe tic particulars, and are extracted from a let
nce ter, dated at Portland, Friday, Jan. 5, /
rin- 7 o'clock, p. m,
Jed "Since the -express of this morning, eve
hat ry effort has been made to get the (hip off
ras the Ledge, on which she was drove last
110- night, by the lee, with all her anchors a
go- head. . At io A. M. this day, she righted,
rer? having then 7 feet as water in her hold, and
ftiil filling; the gale encreafing from the
hat eastward, and in danger of finking, we catt
;as the cables, and run her on ffcore at top of
rer, high water, being bilged. Since which e- 1
lad very thing has been done to'preferve the car- "
go; most of the Nankins are saved; but
the Teas in the hold will be mostly deltroy- p.
ed. The ice has driven mny vessels on V
shore. Ihe gale ftiil continues, and we rt
:ain kn ° W " 0t ? vhat tile tide of the ®ight
'at- do; t,)e " l 'P is ,IOVV a wreck, and all her
mp. cnt away, and otherwise dama- [
ion ged."
In another letter, received by the fame Si
express, and dated about the fame time, it
ape 15 ' a| d, two thirds of the cargo will be saved
:w- though not without some damage. We
has e a mo,e particular examination of the
at lofs,will prove these accounts to be exagger-*
on ated. 0 1
ien
LONDON, oa. 4.
THE ENDY MI ON FRIGATE.
ai It must give great fatisfaftion to the pub- „
lie to know that, that gallant and adive of-
ficer, fir Thomas Williams, is fafely arrived ' C
"j off the Humber, and has brought with him jth
ay Jnpiter of 74 gans, vice-admiral fir ; ' l '.
Richard Onflow's prize, which he found at
sea in a most leaky and distressed condition ; lh
rs. so much so, indeed, that when he firft came
up with her, the officers and people on board s ol
'■7 : proposed to take the men out, and deftjroy ,-e
rt the ship, conceiving themselves every mo
■s, merit in danger of going down. Sir Tho
rn mas, however, by persuasion and good ma
-8 nagement, and by the utmoftj exertions,
ft got them to remain on board, ercfted jury
mafts, secured her rudder, and took her i'n
t, tow. He has thin preserved a valuable ani
■d prize and trophy of viftory, as well as res
cued from imminent danger the lives of a
it great number of brave and deserving men. ' J
It was on a cruize, after his attack of the
n Brutus, of 74 guns, rear-admiral Blois, that
•, he fell in with the Jupiter—ln regardto that T>
attack, 10 honorable to his intrepidity, there
- has been a mif-flatement in the papers • for atu
n it was not the weight of metal that obhVed me
n hun to desist, greatly superior as that must '
n have been to what theEndymion could (hew; and
e but the Dutch admiral filtered off, as well Do
as two brigs and a fchooncr guiy boat that
were with him, and got into Gcree, at the ° n
1- imminent rifle of losing his ;Vps on the sand, cut ,
e with the loss, as we are credibly informed, -J
e ofa great many of his men, whereas the En
- dymion has not a single man killed. 1
t. VV ' U no doubt,- be an official account of this 4 ' h
affair, which refleels the utsnoft credit on the '
: Endycjioaj as tl e Brutus, we underiland, ]
... J7
'": d had not fuffcicrf in the snfpoti h.tweefi (f.<
iwi- fleet*, h avinj quitted the Sine very fuon as->
irk; ter its comrtu nctment. It was late in tiit?
liar* day when tir Tbftias firfi discovered her,anil
ina, (he was clofc in shore.
iltl- He bore up, cldfed uj on the enemy and
rigs commented the attack, pour n^r
dy, in n wtll-dire&ed a.id raking fire, as well as
ft, exchanging- several hroadfides Niglw co.n
ttt, ing on, he was obl/grd to desist, a»the wind#
>r:g lcecurrent, proximity of the fliore, and be
>tru" ing surrounded with sands, rendered fight
and ing in the dark infinitely hazardous, He
und was in the night joined by the Beanlieiiy
and they took a jyfitionas well as circum
laft j fiances would permit, to prevtot the clcape
ma, of the Dutchman, not doubting but a te
fri- renal of the attack in the jnorfclng would
force him to ftrifce. When Jay-light anpear
itta ed, how J ever, they hid the mortification to
>pe fee him rurwjfT, having, it fuppcled, thrown
ed- (Jrcrboard his guns in the night, and' other
:°° wife lightened the ,fcip, to enable him ttf
zil, clear the sands.
"6, _
lor A letter from on board the Latona, at
in- N<vyfcundhnd, dated St. John's
vat 15, slates pa follows;—We have had an
jut alarming mutiny on board this fliip ; but
:a, by the prefeverance of C;p:aii; Cotheron,
ia, and the relt.of the officers it was nearly
quelled in the course of a week after some
afe of those caterpillars of iniquity who
be found un boaid Ihips of war were turned on
as fiiore, an on; or two of the ringleaders flog*
;en ged. Till they hadqu'ted them, we were
to under the greatefl anxiety that could pofiibie
ce. be imagined, and were threatened with no
thing less than instant death. One cf the
mutineers had the impudetiee to op?n the
uabin door when the Captain was afieep in.
his cot, and laid he would walli his hdr.ds
ere in the blood of any rascal that worea frill.
lid NEW THEATRE.
"~ r THIS EVENING,
an JAnitary 15,
Will be presented (tor the second time here) ,
Comic Opera, in three aiSts, called
of ABROAD AND AT HOME ;
Ere Or, A Tour in the King's Be" . >
:e3 by George.Colman, Fftj - r
j r . Garden Theatre : Performed t. :ro vp
/ill °f fi'ty nights, the firft season, and now ; er
forming with diftinfuifhed applatife.J
The New Mafic, composed by Shield.
The Seleflions from G retry, GlO rnowiclfci, Jack
he son and Mahon. With, by perrnifficn of the
be Patentee, the original accompaniments,
ler The new Scenery detigned ly J. Ricbards (
Jr - ' Efq R-A. and executed by MelFrs. Holland
j n and Stewart.
Sir Simon Flourifti, Mr. Francis
Young Flourilb, Mr. Harwood
y e OldTefty, Mr. Warren
ed Young Testy, Mr. Bernard
be Captain O'Neil, Mr. I-Lidinge
"q. Harcourt, Mr, Marfhalt
Snare, Mr. Taylor
Dickey, Mr. Bliifett
Bluff, Mr. VVarrell
Bailiff's Followers, Messrs. Warrelljun.
™ „ , T. Warrell.&c
he Lady Flourish, Mrs. Hardinge
lip Kitty, Mrs Oldmixon
er Miss Hartley, Mrs. Warrel!.
n . To which will be added, a Comedy, (in three
ails) railed,
- 1 " THE MIDNIGHT HOUR.
5 > ( Taken from the French CantedV of Ruse Centre
Ruse. '
e- The Marquis, M.-. Moreton
)ff 1 he Genera!, A' 1 r. Warren
jft Sebastian, air. Francis
a Nicholas," Mr. Hai wcod
, Matiiias, Mr. B'ifTert
' Ambreft, Mr. WirH!
Miss iht ftranee
bc £, ecil y> Mrs L'Eftrange
lit Flora, Mrs. Francb.
q£ On will b? the favorite
1 Jagedy x)f Ilabfila, or the Fatal in
which Mrs. Merry will make her firft appear
ance. r
Llt The Cure for the Heart-Achs has been poft
y- poncd on account of che indifpoHtion of Mrs.
Due no:ice will be given of its third
Vf > rcprclentation.
lv Seledl Subscription Balls,
M U ANClSrtipedlfuliy. informs theSub
a- -LVi fcriben to the above HALLS thrt the SF
CGND will be on. Tuefdajr Ni?XT—Thofc
)e Suhfcribers who have riot already received their
it T'ckets, are requell.dto apply to Mr. Francis,
d No. 70, North F.ighrh-Ureet.
V Jai '' 1 '• " it
ie City Commissioner's OJlice,
r " "January, J2 th, '797.
/OR THE tNFORMATION OF THs CITIZENS.
- 5 "HE following arrangement is made by the
„ la,d Commilfioneri, for .cleaufms the '
itreets, Sec. J
)" n 1 '■ fln<a , f *? '■ From the north fide of Viie
f. " r - et \° 'lffr-uth fide of MqHjerry .fireer ;to
be under the lupe-intend.ioce of Nicholas II cks
A*V TJ ! he fCUt! ' fi<le " f Mulberry Oreet, to
n the fo,,th fide of Ch.'f.mt street to be under the
r : lUperuidarice of William Moulder,
t .3- From the Couth Pde of Chefnct street to
. the north fide of Spruce rtreet, to he un Jer the
e lupenntendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4- I'rnrath* north fide of Spruce street, to the
'outh fide ot Cedar street, to be under the iu
penntffndante of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
To be Exchanged for
British, German, or India Goods,
, !N THE package;
A trail of valuable Land
1 J" L ycoming, joining that of the Holland cn
; and containing 10,000 Ai res.
r Inquire of the Printer.
A
1 0 L(idinet iviakois, 'Joiners, C 5 c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
; ': car thc New-Market,
' ' . l , thinks to their friendi srid the
; .■' n ' their liberal encouraperhent,
• an r '°Pe, by their unremitting attention to
merit a continuance cf their favors. The f'art
nerdup between thym and Jofeoh B. Bar: v. in,
W uiT.lved by ra u , ua l consent. Cavanaph
and i.earnhavejt-ft received a quantity of s t .
Doming a and Honduras Mahr P ony, %vh ch tbev
uuend ,0 fell on very rea:,n,bfe tcr^rS
» | rS 'v- m pwry moll punctually exe
cuted. V„ e;rs of all kmds cut as nCual.
' *'• ■ / aa« 4 w
J wofur/ijhed Rooms to be Let
Enquire at No. 16 ,, Spruce-street, b-tween
A thl abnvf Ctf ' /iny Pe,fc " wh " flM,i
, J* ll 15. * ztLoft; or taken away by rniftake, j
on craboat the nth
the fliip ComaKrcc, Richard 'A r iii'Jco*t,
lad from Liverpool h lying at M cirri/* wharf, fee
or.d above Draw hfUgc, one bljck jratUor I nmlc. u
coycr.d mi h tiraw matting and corded, mak- dat M<:
L ttcm tn
u \ being a trunk of print? i Calico--. I: any th
8 person can give information r*flai<l
P trui.k, they will confer an obligation i*p-
V on the owner. ; n
No. 6 Joshua surcuFr, w
No. 100, Sprue-; ftrcer.
January 10. 4t
W. Haydon,
Dedicator of Dra London,
(Wi.ero he has tidied feYcral years under one of
th# mo»1 eminent matters in t m fci«i:ce)
his friends, that he hai re-commerc- ft
-1 hit private tuition.—r'ferms, a- ufuaU
Dollars per for attcn'jahce three tiirt<2s a kr
week. I.ikewife, all kinds of 'Ornamental Paint- ft*
ing. fruit, £ow.r% £:c. taught s on the .'hove terms. PI
W. H- Matter: himfelf hia term® will be particu- pu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as fcl
be makes no additional charge if there are two *h
pupils in one family. # 1 fcl
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at thp office of this ef ]
Gizette, will b« immediately attended to. Q
J. nuvry 9. § 2y re:
Just Published, j
And to be had at the Book-stores of Melfrs. Dob
ioN, CA .'<4 PBKLL , YOUNG and OaMROD,
in "PhiH«Wphia, I ®fL'
OBSERVATIONS £
Oo the Caufc* and Cure of Remitting; or Billious r
\ Fevers. J
To ivhub is annexed t
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ice of
different authors and an APPENDIX, exhib-
itlnjr inccrelting fa&sand r: flections relative to
the Synocbus I&ertides, or Yellow Fever, which Hi
has oceafioned so much diflrefcand mortality, at on
different periods, in ieveralof the fcapoit towns fe<
of the United States of America. Pr
by WILLIAM CURRIE, | nu
Fellow of the Philadelphia Coll«ge of Physicians, j
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. \\
'To be Soldy W
The time of a Negro Man, |* r
Who three years to serve ; he is a jjood hod
ler, or coachman, and with fofiire attention would
make an excellent Cook. He is fold for no faults,
but for want of conftaht employ. The price for a
his time, to prevent needlefsenquiries, i 6 £.3°* ou
Enquire at No. S8 Spruce»ihect. tlO
At said place may be had a few ty>ns of choice m:
firft crop Hay. P r
I ft month 9th.
All Perlons pI
Having any demands agamft the Fftate of the
l,ite Captain George Irwin, are reqnefted to
bring ia their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next tnluing §
und those who are indebted to said estate are To
litited to make immediate payment to •
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix. A
nov. 19 1797-
jarnes C. & Samuel W. Fither, j?°
AT THE:R STORE, in
$*0,513, Arch and Front flreets,
'.HAVE FOR SALEy
Cotton and worited Hoiiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto furty romali Handkerchiefs _
Ditto Pullicat frlk ditto
* Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto.
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TafFctica
4COO pieces Nanksens", and
Few chests bed Hyson Toa
Also 1500 boxes Wed London Window Glafj,
from 8 hy 6, to 19 by 14 —and if hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they willduyofe of cheaper y t
than any in the city.
novemVer aB.
NOW LANDING,
At South-street WJjarf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,,
Capfiin Thompfgh, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having beun felefled)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canifUrs and bags ci
ro legurts of old Arrack w
Nutmegs, Mace and gloves 1
FOR SALE BX
PETER BLIGHT. £ c
Who also effers For Sale, t
Jud landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica. r
joi Ivlids. Jamaica and E
170 do. do. Rum. v
novemher 13. tl
A person well acquainted with
thf theory and prailiceoi book-keeping, whohasieen
many yews engaged in buftneisior himftlf andotheri,
would be gla Ito be employe !, either as an agent f
or fafljor; or in polling fcopks ; stating unsettled 0
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ- t
iug, in Frsnch or Engli/!i. ■ft
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be pundually attended to. c
november 30. jawtf v
Salisbury Estate. i
THE Sublcriber, proposing to contra® Sit bufi- «
nef», #ffcrs this Eilatc tor sale, on moderate
terms. On 1! are one Blast and three Air Furnac( J,
a complete Boreing Machihe, and a very good grill '
Mill,with two pair of llones ; also a good Forgr, all t
in petfeft repair, aj arc all the Water Works conncft- (
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou' two thou land acres _
of Land, onchtlf oT which 11 under wood, rneother
verv fine arable I.rfnd, producing l,he bell Hay and
Failure, The Cannon lately punnlai'ured there,
tully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
iuperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one ot fixty-nioe gnus
■ lately m ide, although fon-.e of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounderi have faiUd on proving. The fn u
atioh :s very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the llatc
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from ftveral land
ings on the Hudson's river,and having rvcry advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluin*
' from a Urge natural ptind, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ulcful purpolcs. The pttrchafT can braccommodat
ed viih all the ftoek. and titcnfils, and have poflkflion
on or before the fir It of June next, and prepar.tioo
may be made in the nv an time for going into BlaA im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in nood order, with tome coal, Ore, die. &c. for
tcrtn:, apply to Mr. lofeph Anthi nv, in Philadel
phia; l))vid Brooks, F.lq.rx'tol he Reprefenmivet
in Coi'grefs for this Slate ; Mr, D.vid Wairrman, on
the urcinifes, 01 totbe prr.pnetor in Nj;w.York.
r WII.LIAM NEttSON.
Dee. i. 3' wtf
A Houfc in Burlington for Sale.
»"I fobf-ribtr has a Urge, convenient two-
X {lory brick Houle, with Stables, Cartiage
houfe, ar.rl .1 welldniprovetl Garden, in tfc#Oitv
ot liurlitigton, Ncw-J»rl'e>. v, hifli lie wlUies to
. 11. for terms apply at No. t, ,>outh I'onrth
ftrce:, to GBOROE WALKEK,
IVbo lj,ii alfn for B<tlc,
Lots in Walhington Cifv,
Contigoou.to thcC.tp to! anil to the (.rincipa!
harbour.
Dtscmbtr 19. * eo > 1
I DANCING SCHOOL. ; j
i \TfILLIAM M'DOfKiALL prffenu h, s
YV most relj>«lfttl «K'.n};j:r..rt)ls to his form
•r t-mploy<r« »n<J thecinjuns in •.eoeral. wJ re-
his moll ,giatef»l thank., for t.ie very
Um ex^iein' --<1 &
tnele twrnty-liva years past, takes thJopporty-
?»it,y of inioi them, tfcat Lis lchpo. is
opt,l, at his i.
Elegant Ball Riorr.y , an r.
in South Fou tb-Stieet, between CheAiut and j;,
Walnut-streets. To begin at loin the | 9g j
for ynam: ladles, and 6 m the evening tor young hav
centletiicn.
b Per. %, _____ "
(JOLUMIiIA iTU.USi.
Boarding School for youuig Ladies. t%d
A TllS. G;lo()!VHJßlDG'£uith much pleas- Bru
IVI ure and rtfbeft, rerurns her sincere ac- »" d
•knowledgemcnt for tht; liberal eHCOuragement
she hi» received dnring four years refidetiee ia Xfi
Philadelphia; and allures her .friends and.tlu
public, so far from intending to dtcliae her
school, she has made a fupertor arrangemsnt for
the more convenient accommodation of her Lin
i scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite t |, e
education is particularly attended to by r f* ttioi
j Groombridge md maltsrs excelling in their t oai
refpefliveprofelTtons. per
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. of
June sth, 1 797- jji-mftf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made of
I more agreeable by an extensive garden and let ed i
of ground adjoining the houCe. °' 1
Fjr sale or to be let ofi ground- Sch
rent, • »»
A valuable Lit of Ground ; ton
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wai
nut and Fifth' streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front w
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen —!
feet and an half on Fii'tfc street ; th<we are at
prefcnt two small two story brick and a
' number of small tenements thereon. A
Also, for Sale, f
Twro three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafrts
flreets, containing in front on Water street fit
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- ( j ol
ward ninety-five feet, then widenhig to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses clo
ave the convenience ot a public alfey adjoniing ' >
on the north fide, and are a very dtfirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<3or,or others who
may have occasion for storage of This j
property will be fold on very reasonable terms .
for calh. Eor further information apply to the ter
printer.
July 31. mScwtf _
WANTED,
*. LARCE PARCEL OS
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitalle for Haufe Building ; D
Also a quantity of Stone & Bricks, Hbi
lam ready to enter into csntraifts for the a- ty,
bove articles—ajreafonable time may be allowed lie
for preparing them ; and calh shall bepaid eifher of
inadvance, or upon their delivery, as may lee a- Scf
rjpeed on. —Apply to theSubfcriber, House-Car- he
peritcr, Lonibard-Hraet, No 2. He
John Crean. ™
Decfmbcrtg. 3 fl<
For Sale by the Subscribers, »«!
Klciln '<whote and~mif trerni th(
BaUideaiif! Brandy an ,
Teruriffe {Vine lt t
MolnJej ho
Georgia and Carolina Indigo C( J
Ravens Duck and one hogshead of paint cu
hrujhes .
N.- & J- grazer.
A*o, $$ 7 SazUJi Front Streets
Nfrv. 7- dlm - j-
New-Theatre, ri<
December 11, 1797* of
i Managius particularly request the con- oE
Jl currence of the public in the abolition of a
cudorn, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RIiTURN CHECKS at the
Theatre. Tj
They are aware that gentlemen are unconfoious
of any wrong done to the interest of the inftitu
tionby this practice, from a general, though mis
taken idea that Checks are die representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will *,
when in fait, they were never intended as more
than taktii by which the Door-keepers aft enabled
to ascertain with the least trouble to the parties, that
tbey thcmfilvcs have been before in the Theatre, or
n paid for their admifiion.
*• Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
lt such a pradice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other difordcrly persons to surround the doors of
~ the Theatre, to the corruption of their morals and
the great annoyance of t'ne Audience.
e > It has also been the fonrce of two evils of no in
considerable magnitude; one is, that fomctimes
very improper company is by these means admit
~ ted ; and the other, that owin,- to Checks palling
into difhcmell hands, they have be;n frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amount for the purpofesof
t c Sale
j, This flatement will, it isrefpeilfully hoped, in
li ducethe Public to discourage such a traffic : and
>ll the eiertionsof the Managers will, if thus afCtled,
I- easily p»ove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL fcf REINAGLE.
,n December 13 'w
cs ■
"d Valuable Books,
c > Just received by the Fair American from
London, and now opening and felling by
ns Jw Or MfioDf No. 41, Chefnut Street,
ed CATALOGUES
u - Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's ofual stock, form in
extensive and elegant colleflio* of ar>cieot and
modern literature, and comprise botiks in fun
n< dry languages and on various
ce, ~
lier 7'hit Day is Published, '
[at- By j. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely j
! un bosnd and lettered, and etiibellifhed »'ith an I
K>n elegant froatifpiece and seventy. three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
for / OR,.
The Juvenile Friend ;
011 Being a valuable collection nf interesting and
mifcellaneotis^incidents, calculated to exhibit to
yourg minds the happy eftetfl? of youthful
nocente asd filial affection—ln proi'e and verse.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
lo " In the Prefj, and will be speedily pyblifhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
j to Plan if Female Education.
rt j, Subfcrif tionai i r this inconipirible work will
t be thankfully received hy tlie printer. The hnok
vritl coutain about three hurulted pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
iivertd tn fubferiber. neatly b-ard, lettered and 1
pal emhellilhed with an e'egsnt f'ontifp'rce» for dne
do'.Ur.
- jt.
*
; V
This Day Published,
And!*) be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second add Chcfnut streets,
jfrice 3-Bths of a Dollar,
Observations en certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation againll
AUEXANHER HAMILTON,
Late Secretaby of the Treaiuk.t, it FULLY
REFUTED.
rr Rlt t£ n Br bimselt.
Thi« publication presents a eoncife ftatemeiit
of the base means prdlftifed by the Jacobin* of the
United States to asperse the cha. aAers of thofa
persons who are confideredas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefirs.
Monroe, Muhletiburgh and Venable, 6n the.fhb
j'edt of thedacmnents aforefaSd, art<3 a ferifcs of let
ters fr»m Jame* Reynelds and his Wife to Mt. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibijity of a doubt,
that the connexion between hipa and Reynojih,
was the result of a daring confpiraay on the part
of the latter and his a'flociates to extort money.
£?' a discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefak purchafcrs, for
eASH. Orders to be addressed to Mri Yotm«.
j4u?ufl 25.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflns.
By William YouNd, BxioifeHtr,
No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut flreet,
(Price, in boardt I i Cath)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliffied intha elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to corrtfl some important er
\ rors of that woik, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their-praftice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatr* Cs* Ckjis. Maciear.
To which is subjoined, a TreatiTe on tlie afiion
of MirrrUf V Upon Jiving UiTfflei,antl its applica.
t'ron for the curt of diseases of indtred debility,
AndadifEwtation on the sources of Epidemieand,
' Pestilential diseases; in which isa'ttemptedtoprove
' by a numerous induction of fattts, tint they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Jlates, or certain vicissitudes of*
the atrtibfpliere, by ChaM.hs Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. siit
FOR SALE, Br ~
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefmit Street,
A cargo of chbice BoOrdeauxßl.udy, rft and ad
proof, jilft landed
450 bales of BoiSrbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Swat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
! » High £foof Jatn'aica'lpirits
, 8 Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pips &
o do. market do ( qr. cases.
0 New England rum in hogsheads
o Genuine Holland Gin m pipes
10 Claret in cases
o Spermaceti candlfit add lltain'd oil
,0 Prime Boston beef
it; Choice Halifax Balmon ia bartels and half Barrels
(0 D». * Herring in do do
lo Best Boston Macltaref in barrels of the fall fare.
10 New-England tow 1-man
A few totis of RiifTia Cordage
Ruflia feather beds
lo Clover and Timothy feed in
>0 L"*g whale-bane
Nn rt, and 3, Boston fail'dack
A Tew chrjl!» flill tywriity liyToiTtca
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
~ An invoice of Dutch hollow g!af> ware. *
-'*> November 8. djtf.
n- This day is Published,
be At the office of the Aurora, No. 1 t'e, Market Slreet,.
>T | Price one dollar and a halt,] 1 SI
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVEin tbe -B
er FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Staiss, conneft
ill ed with the Mirtion_ta_Jite frmch RejwiHie d»ring
k* ifie yews,. 1 foj, 5, 6,
By JAMES M.ONROE,
of Late Minister Plcnspoicntiarv to ihe said Republic
•f Illustrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
dy RESPONDENCE and oiher authentic documents.
Ifc A very liberal allowance to those who bny to felt
'.< A again.
n p. December 23. *6t.
m ' School Books and Stationary,
tei W. YOUNG,
rill No. (2, Second-street, cornsr of Chefnut-ftreet,.
at- T TAS now r«ady for sale, a very large affort
of Xl nient of Englijh, French, Latin and Greek
to SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, siKh elementary books
or Science, as are generally read in the academies
he and colleges throughout the United States.
<&- LATEfcY PUBLISHED,
[at Sheridan's Diftionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price j dols.
Ditto, large nmo. price J <3ol 75 cfs.
m- Ditto, common, price 1 do!. 50 cts.
ter All fc<rts of drawing, packing, printing, and
d writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards. Paftebonrds,
ivfr flicathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, ami-other articles; ef
the best 'quality, used in tkc counting honfe, or
public office. _
jej Catalogue»-ef-a <MtlUla.TS6tts cclletflicn of
on with tUe price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring ns above. Q&. li.. —
LAW BOOKS,
er- Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Book/e/lers,
f l ' No. 16, South Second, and JJo. jo, Market flreet,
T T'aVE just received by the
ii London and Dublin, their fpricg iniporta-'
the t'on, confiftiiig of a variety of the latest ard mod
approved Lawßooksj which,added to those alrea
dy on forttisthe r.ioft extensive colleAion ev»
fit. er oflercdfor sale in this couatry. They theiefore
beg leave to notice, that torn the nature of their
connefiiensin Dublin, they are enabled to fellli ifh'
editions (as they-have hitherto done) at ike vt ry
lowest prices". The following are among the lauil
publications.
. , Vcfcy, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 v.!s.
" Peake's Cases atNifiPriuk; Ridgeway's Kef orts
cs ' iu the time of I,ord HardWicka ; l'loyer's Pioclers
PraSice in the Ecclefiafwcal Courts; Barton's
°P S ' Trtatife on a Suit in E^tiity; Vidd's PraiSiceof
N ' t ' l the Cc.uit of Kite's Bcniii m PerfonSl AiSion*, 4
parti complere ; Ward's Law of Nations ; <>uife
on Uses ; nwidern Rtju.its, II vol?. London edi
tion.
the H. and P. Rice cxpeS lp rcclvt by tlie fir A ar
rival from Ne%v-Y®rk the vol. cumplate of
;. r v. Ournfi-rd and Fall's Rfporus, the id part of Gil-
"bert'sLaw of Evidence by Lo'ft, and a number of
new publications.
June i 6.
IV anted, to Hire,
ef, a I.arg; and canvir.ient HOUSE, in or near
t ji tr ix the centre cf the city—for which a gejierous
Are ren? be given; to be tlk;:i ,tor a year, or mi
more for a ioc jcr tefai. Inquire of tfc* Pilu'.e r.
■•f Oft. !"• «*•