of t\)Z Mnitefc States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
( By John Fen no, N 0- iio Che [nut Street.
NvmmZ - {TMM« XIII.
*
PHILADELPHIA, T
TOESPAY EVENING. April 3.
Philadelphia, March 30th 1798.
LETTER 11.
To the mouse of representatives of
the UNITED STATfcS.
'' ■ I
Q.KNTLSMEN t
MJUfn the legislature of a great and free
jwopk is convened atau ireportantand threat
ening crisis we naturally expert from it foitte
uHQoirirtion prute&ion, to their rights and li
bei ties.
If we are deceived, and instead of great
exerlious for security, a (hameful neglect of t |
»verj ordinary means takes place ; vvc are m
to enquire the cause of such desertion of A
duty 5 the mind is uneasy if it cannot 11
aiSx a proportionate apology.
Perh.ips It may be thought too bold if I
publicly declare my opinion ; but as lam w
sincere I scorn to fupprefa the inclination—
It is tha lirft privilege in a free government w
to speak your mind ; it iq a privilege I glory e:
in and which I (hall now exert; truth un- °
d*r whatever fignatute loses nana of its force
it carries cofivi&ion tp king and peasant. w
I conceal not my name from fear ®f pan- A
ifliment > for I mean not to violate any one fc
Vw of my country; I «fpe& and revere 0
them and-it is for their prefervatian I write. "
Why Ido not disclose mjrfelf is to avoid "j
personalities which would unavoidably hap- j
pen and thus divert the attention from the fc
main ohjedt of these letters. e<
The aid which the French government P
gave to America in her contest with En- P
glandwas repaid on oiirpart (andjuftly too) j
with esteem and gratitude ; from that period
there has subsisted a mutual attachment ; f- c
and the revolution which has just been ef- n
fe£ted there, joined to the brilliant fuccels tl
that has conllantly attended their arms ; has T '
heightened this attachment (in the breads
of a large poition of our citj-z-ens-) to the a ,
wioft extravagant enthufiafnv. t>
This growing affection was observed by 1)
tJjfi French republic with peculiar fatisfadli- it
cn— they were too cunning not to take adr
ventage of it. Dazz-led by the splendor of P
th«ir victories and the novelty of the scene,
which a sudden change from one extreme to w
another rjjuft produce—a change by which e
tjbc ahfolnte government of twenty-four «
millions of people is wrested from one man n
and divided anvmgft themselves ; they yield- 1'
ed up the-control of tbe passions and indulg
ed ill all the excefles ps vice and folly—for 1
their follies an apology from the impartial ls
and thinking roan can soon be obtained. <j
Human nature iti not endued with for- tl
titude fnfficient to_jvithftaud so great a tor- '
«sent of prosperity, it turns us giddy and al- ?
mod incapacitates us for thinking. But for "
vices such as theirs no excuse can be framed, 3
they mull proceed not from an over heated 0
imagination that magnifies an error into a d
criuve, but from villainy daep rooted in the
heart ; for they ftopt not after the firft im- v
pulse of zeal in the new cause had subsided ; t
but continued to wade deeper and deeper in '
human blood and flay one another in a cool 0
and deliberate manner.
Thus, Ikilful in the blacked crimes and f
heated with an insatiable ambition, it is no r
wonder thatiftie is nofcfatiefied with the con- t
queil of near half of Europe, but that the J
fubjeijtioo of America must decorate her
pompous littv j
To obtain,theis dofirable end (he has pur- r
fuetl'llte fsmc method ih this country as in (
every other—(he wanted to subdue ; Che has f
fcnt her etniffhries abroad to bribe those base 1
but influential characters who, discontented *
•with their prefeot lituation and of relllefs f
tempers would facrifice the dearest interests t
of their native country to.their awn ambiti- f
ous views. By her. gold and her infamous d
fuggeflions of future rewards (he has been £
too fuccefjfuL. in sowing diffentions among \
the people, dividing them from; their gov- c
erwneivt, in (hnrvt, in subverting their con. e
ftitutions and fubilituting in the room a a
mean and fervilt dependence on a foreign t
power. This game is now playing here, I 1
and T hlufluto own, with too much (uccefs. 'j
It has even penetiated the walk of your as- y
fembly, where a large junto of servile jac- r
obins furioufty oppose every mcafure of the j
executive, are driving to subvert the consti
tution and destroy the confidence which the ]■
people have reposed in the condituted au- v
thorities. . , . r
This li evident from the whole tenor ot f
their conduct, uniform in thing hof- (
tile to the true and acknowledged mtered of
their country—this is the cause of your dif- r
trafted councils—this is the source from ,
v.'hich ha,s fpritng our present unprepared,
dfcfcncclcfs condition. c
But thanks to Heaven there is a majority f
of enlightened, re«l patriots in congress re
folnte to maintain inviolate our liberty andin-
dependence and who will ri(!c both life and
fortune in the noble cause. _ o
Ob you the people of America.lean, as
,heir prop, their pillar in the hojif of dan- j;
you they look up fpr proieftion— <>
Qh ! guard their rights ! defend'their dig- o
nitvl-lwffle the villainous confp;racies of ;t
your prollitute.d colleagues. _ j
' Tl»e smiles of an approving conscience
Iwill be your revvard —the hearts of a gene
rpus pepp'c w!n evi;r witb g ratitude >
and your names will (land rtcor4ed in the h
;< mials of hiAory " tlw arm defenders of the !
" oeople'* rights." - n
P 6 EUGENICS.
From American Daily Adveatissr..
Meflfrs. Cla vpoole, r
The following very interesting letter from Mr. |
Webster, of New-York, to his friend in
thiscity, is sent 10 you for publication, by ®
cor.ient of the author. It conta. s infor:r 1
tion upon the origin and nattir»t)f cialigua. t
fevers, thai is worthy of the notice of e«ry f
legiflatorand merchant in the tlnited States, j
, • Mr. Webster's discoveries upon this fub
jeftare entitled lothe more refpeel, as they .
are the result of invelligations unfettered by _
previous theories in medicine. —He writes '
as a philosopher, and hisfole objects appear t
to be the health and lives of hi« fellow citi- r
zens, and the prosperity sf his country. ]
Nrw-Tcn-ij March 20, 1798. |
SINCE issuing proposals for publilhing my
Enquiry into the Origin as Epidemic Dif- '
. eases, 1, find many people have the impression :
that this work is t.v'jc a revision and enlarge- s
ment of the Letters which I publilhed Taft ;
: Autumn on the fubjedt of the Yellow Fever. (
It is necelftry to impreffion from .
the public mind. The work proposed is al- '
together new; tho a few of the facts and con- 1
clufions llated in my printed letters will be I
' wrought into the intended volume. 1
The'tpieftion to be decided, is not simply ,
what are the origin and phenomena of the dif- (
• ease which lias alarmed and scourged our cities ; |
but what is the reason why malignant or pesti
lential diseases prevail at fooie times more than
' at others ? If the cause is imported infection, 1
why is infection imported into all ports of ;
■ America in one season, or in one period of
: four or five years, and the* for a long series
. of years, is not imported at *ll ? Are malig
nant epidemics confuted to fMrtfcular" -places
j or countries; or are they pr<- in many '
or mod parts ef th 4 world at the arae time?
" If so, and we find that'they spring up in dif
'■ ferent parts of the world at the fame time,
communication by infection cannot be the
t principal cause, and we must resort to # other
principles.
, I hinted at this circumstance in my printed
letters, but was not then prepared to discuss
' 4he (object. I have however ascertained the
faft, that epidemic diseases usually appear in
many or mod parts of the civilized world at
the fame time, and not only on land, but on
the ocean, and on the opposite fide of the
globe.—lt is equally ascertained, as I- suspec
ted from my own oblervation, that violent
and dellruftive epidemics are aliuerrs preceded
by diseases of a less malignant type, and near
ly in the order in which they have prevailed
in the United' States, viz. Catarrh, anginas,
bilious remittents of encreafed malignity or
• petunial fevers, yellow fever, or plague. This
progress or fotnething similar is obfervjble of
all the great pestilences that have ravaged the
world. The ta£ts to prove this principle in
epidemics, and the order of them, will be so
elearly ascertained, as to render it impossible
not to forefee the approach of a peltilential
period.
From this fail, will be deduced mod fatiS
fa£tory explanations of some points which now
, occalion controversy among medical men. It
is alfodemonftrafed beyond all controversy or
doubt, and I polTefs full evidence of tfre fcrtt,
that when any great pedilence is laying-waste
those countries mod obnoxious to it, as Ca:ro
or Conftantiriople, the mortality is augmented
in all parts of Europe. But this is not all ;
the influence of the pestilential (late of the
armofphere, which,in Grand Cairo, produces
1 plague, produces in America some malignant
1 disease which swells our bill, of mortality.
e Ido not speak of llight plagues which pre
- vail in the Levant cities almoCt yearly, from
• the dperation of powerful /ocalcmiCes ; but of
„ those great and general plagues which in the
I course of every period of twenty or thirty
years, carry oft' thousands in a d(»y. in Cairo
and Conftautinople, and often extend to more
3 healthful citjes. So uniform is this pheno
-0 menon, that give me correct bills of mortaili
. ty for the principal cities in Europe and Ame
e rica, ( and I can tell when a dedruiitive plagua
has ravaged the Levan., without one particle
r of other intelligence of the fact.—The fame
dreadful plague 111 Egypt in,1736, which car
- ried off several thousands in a day ip Grand
n Cairo, was cotemporary with that dedruflive
s fore throat in America, which our old people
e (till men'ion with horror.--The yellow feveV
j ofi74i in Philadelphia, and of 174.3 in New-
York, c'orrefpond in time with another gene
s ral pedilence which ravaged the Levant ci
-5 ties. The fame was the vy\ith the yellow
1- fever of 1761 or 2in Philadelphia, which was
s during the great plague of'which Riiffel I has
n given so particular an accpunt. At the fame
time the bills of mortality in London were
= fwelied tVorti the u(ua ; number of about 20,00*
0 and in 1740, to 30,000. The lad
' .epidemic under which we are yet smarting,
a and which lam afraid is not yet at an end,
n tho evidently lighter than many that have
happened within two centuries, has been felt
' in the Weft-Indies, South America, on the
African coast, and our unhappy countrymen,
who have been.prifoncrs fn/Vlgiers, can wit
" ness forme that its eft'eclshave been fatally ex
f periencedin thut country.
' Why tliefe great andintereding
e have been nearly overlooked and disregarded,
i- while rulers of nations have been busy in com
bating the importation ofpe.dilence in bags of
cotton and old rags, i 3 to me aftoli;{hing.<—
p But it is often.the dediny of man to overlook
r the mod obvious thing.
II » ' "
The .primary causes of general psdiience, it
maybe difficult toafcertain; but I have no
n helitation in faying, that it must be an alter
'> ation in the chemical properties of air. It is
clearly demonstrated bv evidence in my pol
y fellion, that changes of season are not" adequate
.. canfes ; for the worlt plagues-have broken out
in high northern latitudes, in tlie- wdft of
winter.
The season* have material influence on the
general ltate of health ; and local.causes haye
s still nioreinfluenceiner&rarjaptnmxial diseases.
" 13ut it will he made clear that some more pow
erful caule is always combined with these fnb
- ordinate ones, in producing the more general
f and malignant epidemics. What this cause ij
1 will not. undertake to decide. The question
has. hi tho to baffled enquiry; but there are
e hopes that some light will tie thrown on tbi,
" part of the.frbje^.
■ This enquiry is extremely inler.cding to the
c happiness and prosperity cf our country ; and
c j ) 10 p c to find a fubfeription Aaf wi\f indem
nify me for th e labor and expence I must
incur in prosecuting it.
NEW-YORK, March 27. :
The author of the refidenee in France, 1
now publifhiwg by a Mr. Davis, and who is ]
said to be a lady, has a very happy talent at 1
dcfcribing the (cents th«c took plsce in j
France, as well as the characters of the ac- 1
tcrs. The following description of the dif- i
ferent charaitera of th« Fuench and Englii , £
is extremely just and «xa<3. !,(
" The conduct of Fouquier Tinrille,Jiai j t
led m'e to some refleftions on a subject which! 1
I know the French consider as matter of 1
triumph, and as a peculiar advantage their
national character enjoys over the Eugli(h—}
I mean that smoothness of manner, and '
guardednefe of expreflion which they call'
" amiable," and which they have the facul- (
ty of attaining and preserving diftinft from j J
1 a correspondent temper of the mind. It 1 j
accompanies them through the moll irritat-11
ing vicissitudes, and enables them to deceive ! 1
even without deceit, for though this suavity 1
is habitual, of course frequently undefign- ■
ing, the dranger is nevertheless thrown off (
his guard by iti and tempted to place confi- j
dence, or expedl fervicea, which a less con- ;
' ciliating deportment would not have suggest
ed. A Frenchman may be an unkind huf
' band, a severe parent, or an arrogant inaf
, ter, yet never contrast his features or afpi
, rate his voice, and for this reafoh is, in the ;
f national sense, "un homme bien doux."—
i His heart may become corrupt, his priaci
-5 plas immoral, and his temper feroeiotii;
yet he (hall retain his equability «f tone and
, complacent phraseology, and be "un hom
' me bien amiable.
The revolution has tended much to deve
> lope this peculiarity of the French charac
: ter. Fouquier Tinvillc was a man ps gen
r tie exterior. Gouthon, the execrable affoci
-1 ciats of Robefpirre, was mildness itfelf.—
3 Robespierre's harangues are in a stile of
: didinguifhed sensibility, and even Carrier,
1 the destroyer of 30,000 inhabitants of
1 Nantz, is attested by his fellow students, to
J have been of an amiable difyofition. I know
a man of mod insinuating address, who has
t been the means of conducing his own bro-
I ther to the guillotine. The philophic Con
- dorcet pursued his patron, the Due de la
Rochefoucault, with malignancy, and Col
' lot d' Herbois dispatched at one discharge of
s eannon three hundred people together, to
f " spare his sensibility," the ta(k of execu
e tion in detail.
II Without deciding whether the Englilh
3 are more geatle in nature than the French,
'j lam persuaded this douceur of the French is
no proof of the contrary. An Englishman
is seldom out of humor, without proclaim-
ing it to the world ; and the mod forcible
t motives of interest or expediency, cannot
r always pre*iil on hira to assume a more en-
V" g»ginjr cxtcrmd than thee which dclirn-ates
e his feelings. If he has a matter to refufe,
1 he usually begins by fortifying himfelfwith
a little ruggtdnefs of manner, by way of
e prefacing a denial. " The hows and whens
s of life" corrugate his features and difharmo
t nize his periods, " contradi&ion fours and
paflion ruffles him." .
It is this difference of charafter which has
" a prodigious influence ever the political fuc
-1 cess of the two nations. If aA Englishman
y has designs upon you, his manners tell of
o |he plot—and the dratagem carries with it
e its own defeat. If he means to dp you a
- favor he does it with such an ill grace, tfct
- it is a chance you do not thank him for it.
e the fame in his manner, whether to do you
e a favor or to plunder you—the fame civility
of manners, the fame ease of deportment
d and fafciiiating smile, introduce the proposed
e fchejcc ; and even after he is dete&ed jr.
y a villainous trick, you are so pleased with his
. address ; as to almod furgive him."
LONDON, Nov. 20.
~ There is no nation that eqaah the Eritifh
iS for strength of charaiter—no nation so ca
s pable to contend with adversity. The pre
e sumption of France, in imagining that it ri
e vals Rome, is only ta be surpassed by the
* falfehood of the supposition. The Frencl*
possess a degree of enthusiasm, that has a
i' splendid outside, but falls very (hort of that
e equanimity which characterized the Romans:
It The proof of genuine courage, is the for
le titude with which it fudains a reverse of
'» fortune. It is that unlhaken condancy
" which animated that great people, at a time
when Harmbal befieg&l t!leir very gates,
that taught them even in that extremity,
| t to despise the conqueror, and abfointely to
fell the ground oft which he-had encamped
>f his army. Fear was a dranger to their foul*.
- Are the French such a nation ? Let but a
k battle or a dratagem fail, and where is this
Roman resolution? Have tbey not fled like
!t hunted dags, before armies of Germans,
0 inferior, both in numbers and difcipliiie ?
j s Again, the Romans were a magnanimous
. and a generous people. Do the French re
e femble them in this ? On the contrary, are
it jiot all their victories tarnished with wanton
'f and deliberate cruelty. Of this, both the
Rhine and Italy supply abundant examples.
e Victorious only by dint of numbers, they
0 are cruel by inclination. Their piratical de-
predations on the feaa, and the cowardice
. they display in evety engagement, are in
il conteftible proofs' that their pretended valor
is is that of barbarians, who trud in multitudes
n to crush and ovirwhelm difcipliue.
h What the Frenchmen are not, the Bri.
tifh are—a manly, persevering courage, e
e qually undilmaycd by adversity, and nnin
d toxicated by success, is their condant dif
_ position. It is this temper of pur idanden
(t that makes us so terrible to our Gallican
neighbors, who, vast as their territory is,
and numberless as their armies appear to be,
, are yet incapable of approaching onr coast.
i Nor will they dare to anncry ns, though au
: hundred diredtors inltead of five (hould
prompt them to the enterprize. While the
■ lioa lives, though wpunded, and a prisoner
in his deo, he is ilill the lord of the son ft ;
, i and though the wolves may howl rouut' his
l.cave, the sturdy beatt still lfr«ps then at t
1 ; bay by his well known reputation : a eou-' ,
. rage uufobdued by accidcntj and expiring t
~ only with life.
.PICTURE 'OF PARIS
} (FROM 4 FRVNCH JOURNAL.)
[ ' If you are fond as dancing, you, may l ave a-
hundance of it. In every quarter ynu will find •
j a plate, where y«u may enjoy this aClive amtjfe
' i mcnt. Are vnu so admirer of plays ? Paris of- j
; | tcrs you at ksit thirty Theatres. 'I hey ait no
- j longer, it is true the fine pieces of Racine or
: Voltaiie ; but yftu may fee plenty of new
r pieces, which are lorgpttfn th;* next* day. Are
you given to play ? You will SnJ in Paris abun
r dance of tables, and wh" \vil!
cheat you them. Ar.- yoit tempted to the en
joyment of the fox Paris with fair
- frail-onei; there sre at ieaft tACi.ty for ona
- ' when CHajjmittk profetihe<l at once theholy
' and the profane, an l attacked at the fame tim
the Saints of the-Chtirch, and the Venufcs of
the püblic places
gious folemnities,*you will Gnd fume of all
e -—Catholics who offer up the ; r prayers tathe
~ Deity with the founri t,f niulirai inftruluents;
- Lutherans who calmly listen.to the IcjSsi '<* from
j the iJiWie and the Goipel ; the Phi!a< , tJfeopift'i,
wh« flourifh'in la#g«>ge, and finp as if were
at the-Opera. —If you like to frequent reading
rooms a»d acadebiies, Paris has more than for
m#*ly ft mrifhed in At hem —Are vojr fond of
readi»g? We no ld;iger, indeed, fia! « hook:,bur
we translate ahundal't'y. Scarecty il» r. » dark,
- gloomy, horrible romance iflu: from th« Preis
[. in Loadon, before twenty drudges set to v. ork
_ toclothit in a forryFrenchdref<Areyou fond |
j of music? There is the harmonic Circle audi
don't know how many concerts every week. —
' D« y»'i refpeil good sense, wit, and underdan
'* ding ? You will find them with diffisuky; but if
o you search diligently, you may find them. —Do
N you cheri(h virtue, candeur, franknefs? Where
is you will discover these, I know not.
BOSTON, March 23.
a COMMUNICATION.
|_ According to Roxbury logic, while there
,f is the peffibility of tne person's abusing the
0 means of protedtion if put into his hands
for his security on the high way or seas, ev
ery one (hould be exposed t» robbery, irfult
and perhaps murder. W? have never def
, poiled the aommerce of France, and yet we
I, find her equipping and arming vessels for
n offenfine operations against our trade and our
rights., She is not afraid of incurring hof
|e tilities with us, but as a magnanimous great
)t Republic, (he (hould behave jujl from prin
ciple not from fear. —Wtll then, perhaps
ja they do not think their conduft vnjujl—if
e not—our arming on the defenfive to protect
j, onr property, would not only be jtiftifiable
,f but commendable. It is our right apd du
-13 ty. Then let it be done ; and let us trud
j. tp the Omniscient Being who knpws our
j motives, to protest us in any poflible cenfe
quences. If excesses are committed, the J
ls government not authorizing such, can fay., ;
asthe friends of the Freoch said by them, i
n as lung as there remained a chance of their j
being believ-d, that the government knew ,
[ t nothing of the atrotities committed by wic- j
a ked and intemperate individuals. This was 1
, t thought a fine extenuating argument. If
t nece(ft,ry it may be repeated for our go'vern
jj ment, and those who have long used it,
n ought to be the firll to accredit it, efpeci
y ally, as it would be unequivocally true.
it ■' ' ' •' ' " ■
d On I'uefday, the 10th day of
ti April nMct, at 7 o'clock in the evening, aj
Is the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Phi!a ,'e!phia,
WILL he exposed to puhlic sale, fevenfesn
tracts or parcels ofl.ind situated m Point
tow nfhip in the county of Northumberland, arid '
containing in the whole fix thoufapd seven hun
dred and-fixty-four acres and three quarters,
with the wfuat allowance for roads.
Terms of (ale, i-j ofthr purchase msney on
i® the execution of the deed, i-,i in three months,
k and i-j in fix months, in good notes or other
a appr«ve*l feearity.
it CONNELLY £«f Co. A*a.
s ; March 9. iaw< ta thi a
r- Valuable Stands for Business.
>f
y FOR SJLE—by the Subscriber j
ie Two Lots of Ground,
s > Situate on the fauth fide of Chefnut-flreet, be-
T, tween Second and ~\ hird flretfts :—one containing
o eighteen seer. and the 6ther fevtnte 11 feet, more or
d lefs,'on tlw said street, and both extending, thej
fame one hundred and forty-eight, more'
or Jess, to Carter's alley.
a There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
is BRICK HOUSES
e (Numbers 8p and'Bs)
!, Which may readily be made feto one ; and, or,
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
ls three-story
.. Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
n arrtJ , a . frpnt of eighteen feet on said alley.
J prorerty is clear of ground-r«nt, and an;
ie inaifputah'e title will be given to the pyrchafer.
3. The-three Houfcs will fepk'fately or toffC
y t|jcr.
parficuiJirs may hx kftbwn ort apjjtict
tion to
•' ZACHARIAH POULSOJt, jbh.
No. 20, Chtcfuui-fireet, or at the Library.
>r match **> frffgw
A Negro Boy for iale.
f-T' 9 ahout i 5 VMri old, und ha* about 15
, year'; to hivif j i":.n bonsd until he
-- 11 28 year# old, uij»rv(foei» of ih 4 - vlayor of this
l- City and Mr. f homas Harrifon. He is botii ac
-- r *ve anj^mif.hitvous, but incapable of becoming
r j a very u,t !ul boy with a "nailer that v.-otif.' injmc
aiately fopori«tert(! hi-, t ~ For further par
tiruiars avfif ta the I'ciu: £ her.-ai.
» ai.trci ii. ,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
CALL UPON THE PRESIDENT. t)
„ ~ JcO
Friday, March 30.
( GwclwlcJ fr«m ycjlcrdjy s Gazette. J
Mr. Li vinC stow said, . there appeared to
be two objections to going into a cottwsHttta
of the whole on the state of the union ; feme
thirllfcrthepropofition before it i&of too 1 rifling
a nature to con/lime time ; others, that it i»
of {0 great magnitude, that they wj/h to gain
farther information, and to ha"ve time to con
sider it.' Tbe firft class of gentlemen, he
thought, treated a fubjetl, confefiTedly of
«reat iiuportarce, with too much levity—■'
Gentlemen fay yoti do us wrong, when you
place the question before the committee in the
light of a Peace or War question; we have no
idea of going to war. This was the language
of the'gentleman from New-Humpfliire (Mr.
Gordon) particularly. . Had that gentle
man forgotten what had been said by his elo
quent friend from Malfachufetts (Mr. Sew
all) who fits belide him ? That gentleman
had declared, not that war might be expect
ed, but that ?w'ar exists ! Was it unreafona
bVe, after fuel)'a declaration, to come to a re
folutioo which fays that it is not'fcxpedienf *
to resort to war at this time ? He thought the
welfare of the country required it. But th 4
gentleman from Massachusetts did not (lop
here. Though, he said, a defepfive war was
all ne vvifhed for, under our present circum
ftanoes, yet he invoked the Supreme Being,
and wiflied we were in a situation to carry on
an otfenfivt war. Yes, exclaimed Mr. L.
the God of Peace Aas iuvokci in favotifr Of
War; the God of Mercy was called uptyi
to favour a war ofvengeance ! And yet gen
tlemen iVifhto throw an odium upoothofewho
cOme forward with a prupofition for pe,>ce.
Mr. L. said, he wiflied as much as any
member for further information before the
house proceeded in active measures ; but lie
was far from being certain that complete in
formation could be obtained ; he believed
great oppofhioh Would be made to the call ;
in the next place, if called for, he believed the
information would not be lent, he supposed
this from a former refufal madeoll the ground
of Executive authority. He deprecated the
decision ; but he believed, as precedent would
authorize it, it would be made.
Mr. Rutledge thought gentlemen went
much too far on this occasion, in anticipat
ing, notfonly what would be the proceedings
of this house, but also of the President. He
rose immediately after the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. Baldwin). That gentleman'#
arguments went against a postponement gene
rally, but not against a postponement till Mon
day. That gentleman was furpriled that gen
tlemen Ihould wish for a postponement ; he
, was one of those who excited his surprise. He
was in favour of the postponement of this
question, because the last had been postponed.
He thought the motion for a call of papers
ought to have been pafled ; but not having
. palled, ha wished it to pass before the house
, went into committee on the proposition which
: had undergone some difcuflion, especially as he
did not believe the delay would postpone the
final decision upon it. 'if gentlemen would
agree to pal's over the firft proposition, and gu
011 to the next, which relates to measures for
the defence of the country, he fliould be as
. ready as tliem to go into a committee of. the
whole on the state of the Union. He doubted
not the gentleman from Virginia was anxious
to deliver the speech which he had promised
1 to the committee [Mr. Nicholas informed the
gentleman he would hear 110 speech from him
to-day].- Mr. R. hoped, then, he would not
~ object to the postponement. The gentleman
from Pennsylvania, said he wanted noMufor
j mation. Nor did he himfelfwant it. He h ; id
received a letter from France, which convin
ced him of the perilous situation in which we
flood with that country ; he had fee 11 the
h rench decree ; and he had seen a gazette
which had informed him that the mefTa-e of
the Directory was paired unanimoufiy by the
Council of Five Hundred; but he supposed
, some other gentlemen had not fufficient in
formation, orelfe it would not have been caill
ed for ; and surely gentlemen would not call
fucli to vote upon what they deemed to be a "*
question of war or peace, without it.
Gentlemen had (aid, that the message of the
President had produced a belief that we (hall
be involved in war, and that produce had fa I
len accordingly. He did not believe the fall
was owing to the message, but that it was
the effeCt of the decree ; and asked whether
the President Would not have been criminal if
he had fuffered the drfpatches to have (lent 1
; night upon his table ? He certainly would'
the communication was indispensable '
Mr. Sew at l was sorry to differ in opinion
from his friend front S. Carolina. He was
himfelf against the postponement. This dif
ference, he supposed, arose from that
iran's yielding to the assertion of gemlemen
that the question before the committee of the
queftion of war or peace, which he
himfe.f did not. He neter confide red th«
•qneftion in that light. It comes in as a bar to
any measures being taken for the defence of
■our country, or from getting into business,
; j which really concerns the state of the union •
what were the motives of gentlemen for
'bringing it thus in, he could not tell The
readiness of gentlemen to come to a decision
upon the question without farther information
proves that they do not consider it as a quef'
tion of war or peace. 11 cannot be doubted"
that it the was called upon tode"
clare war against any nation, they would Inve
aright to expeft that every fact relative to
that nation should be laid before them.
The gentleman from New Yoric, Mr. S
said, had thought fit to (ritude to hint as an'
pealing to the God of Mercy to support us in
a vindictive war. Pwn'.llwnent, Mr. S. f ; ,; c |
was sometimes the triteft mercy ; and if the
■United States could inflict pimifhment on
'France, it might be mercv to that country
And cou\4 any American citizen consider the
fufforings which the French Republic had
•brought upon our merchants, our Teamen and
upon our country generally, without ca'llmlr
•upon the God of Mercy to enable us to in
flict punilhmen? upon that country ? When
gentlemen fay (ann none (eenitodeny it)that
l'Vancc has given this country ju/t caule ot
war, will they not f.iv France has g lV en us
jn(t catife of v-ngeance ' And is there, said
he a patriot in this House,[who acknowledges
France hus given us jult cause of war, and
who does not wish to infliCt that war ur o i
that country m trhe Jeverefi and fuliea man-n?r ? It was impofTible to prevent the wi(V "
He could npt himlelf forbear making uTe of i
the exprelfion with which the gentleman >.
found fault; he could not refrain from calling j c
Upon Gofl to enable us to avenge our wrongs. ,J
Gentlemen aft perfectly ready, without c
know inu how outenvoys have been treated, to , /
declare in Uvour of peace. Mr. S. noticed J
what had been said about the meifage of the /
• President having caused the fall in the price t
of produce, and called upon gentlemen to <
point out that part of it which was calculated
to produce that effect. This fall of produce, /
he said, was only one of the consequences art - <
sing from the wrongs which France has mHi -t- <
ed on this country. If (he had received our j
envoys, no such thing would have happened ;
and could the President be blamed, because .
he communicated the enormities of the French
Republic to Congress ? Certainly he ought
not; tine whole mifchief ought to be alcri- j
bed to the offenders.
Mr. J. Williams was against the p«ft
ponemen*. He had always been ot opinion
that . difcuflion of the proposition which
ha ngagad the House forfome days, wotild | •
hav „ milcnievous effects on the country. He j,,
wiflietl, . aJ ofdifciiflingthisqueftion,they m
had proceeded 16 measures which weYit to .
placing the country in a (lareofdefence. The i
reduction of the price of produce, he ascribed
more to the apprehension of an embargo rh;m ,
any thing else, and the Senate having decided
against that measure, he supposed the alarm .
Would cease. He thought it had been the
object of gentlemen to alarm the country,and
to induce the people to believe that the Exe- j
cutiveand a part of this House are in favotir
of war, and that tney only are for peace.
Mr. T. Claiborne said, if the debate .
continued much longer, the postponement j
would take place, not from the force of gen
tlemen's arguments, but from the length of
them, as it would soon be time to adjourn.
Mr. R. Williams moved to adjourn,
which was carried.
Adjourned.
Monday, April i.
Mr. Varnum presented a petition from
the inhabitants of Milton, in MaiTachufetts,
stating their alarm at the idea of the peace of .
the United States being placed in the hands
' of men who may not be very friendly dif poled
towards the interest of this tommy, viz. tlio
malh*rs of merchant vefTels, many of whom
were formerly British subjects, and who, tho
they have been naturalized in this country, .
ltill retain all their Englifti prejudices againlt
the French, and may exercise tiffin in a man
ner which may lead us to war—the declara
tion of which tiwy wifli to remain in the pow
er of Congress ; they also regret the mifun
derfatiding which at present subsists betwixt
this country and France, and trust that every
mean will be taken to adjust it, without hav- .
in recourse to war, which mud wholly aeltroy .
our commerce, and throw the weight of tup.
porting such a (late upon the tanners and
landed°intereft.—Referred to the committee
of the whole on the ltate of the union,
Mr. Allen called up fordecifion the re
solution for certain papers front the Presi
dent of the United"'Statss ; (the conlider«- (
tion ot which was postponed on Friday till j
this day) which having been read, Mr. A.
said, he >"ould agree to the amendments pro
posed, provided the .mover wouid allow the
fame exception to be used, that had been
proposed on a former occasion, viz. excepting
such pari of the said papers as any exiftmg negotia
tion may render improper to be dijclofed.
Mr. Nicho las did not think it would be
in the present fnuanon of things, when
we are told by the President that the negoci
gt;on with the French Republic is at an end,
and that there is no chance of an accommoda
tion taking place betwixt the two countries,
to agree to any exception of th.s kind. Called
upon to act in this desperate ftateof thinks, he
. thought it would nor be right for any part of
the papers which had led to it, to be withheld
from Congress. 1 he President having thought
fit to declare that all negotiation is at an end,
and that he is without hope of an accommoda
tion, it could not be thought proper that the
leziflature fhotild be called upon to act upon
less information than that upon which the
Prelident himlelf had acted, fie thought the
constitution mull have"intended this, when it
placed the power of declaring war in their
hands ; to fuppofeconrrary, would be to sup
pose an abftirditv. With respect o the pro
bability of any part of the papers interfering
with any exiffing negociation, he could uot
conceive that poflible ;at any rate,he thought
it of greater confcqueuce to aCt r.ghtly in this
cafe, than to have reference to any improba
ble c rcumftaiice of that kind. He hoped the
"entleman would agree to withdraw the ex
ception which he had proposed, as to retain
it would defeat the call, by making it liable
to aii ihe objections which were to the former
exception. Indeed, nrithwithftanding he
willied very much for the information called
for, he fhotild vote againlt the resolution, if
the exception was retained. He therefore
moved to ttrike it out.
Mr..Allen did notknow why the gentleman
fro 1,1 Virginia should wish a different form of
resolution from that propoled on a former
occalion. He could fee no reason but this.
He did not believe gentlemen wished to fee
these papers before the house. When the
resolution alluded to was adupted two years
ago, it was not known that any negociation
was on foot j and though the President had
told the house two weeks ago that all nego
ciation was at anend, it might not be lo now.
But fitppoie there was nothing upon whith
this part of the resolution could act, it could
do no harm. He would not, however, give
gentlemen an opportunity of voting against
the resolution. He would withdraw his a
mendment; because he believed the Piefi
dent would be authorized to retain such parts
of the papers, as he may think it improper to
communicate ; he believed his conltitutional
power gave him the right to do this, and that
therefore, it was immaterial whether the reso
lution contained any exception, or not.
Mr. S. Smith called for the Yeas and Nays,
to convince the gentleman of his error, with ref
pttt to ikfie being no dejire for the papers.
Mr.' Hartley wtjbed the qualifications of
the resolution had nit been withdrawn. He
thought it proper. He bad also his doubts 'whe
ther the house could confLtutionally call for the
inftruftions gtven to qui mimfters. Mr. H.
moved, therefore, to amend the resolution by
re-adding the exception juJ! withdrawn.
Mr. Nicholas tijferved, in reply to the
gentleman from Connecticut, th At if our ft tuation
•with France is changed Jince the President s last
communication, it mould be ground for a new
mejftigc. But the bouse could not ail upon any
thing, Jo uncertain ; they could alt only upon the
idea of things being nonu in the famejituation as
when the President sent bis lafl message.
Mr. Harper said, -when this question <wat
brought forward on Friday, be moved tbe farther
conjideration of it until to.day. Upon refilling,
however, upon what be thought a conftimtiona!
question, it appeared to him that no such Anftiiu
tional question was involved in tbe present reso
lution. Tbe present call for papers, be fatd,
food upon a very different g round from that made
ivbeii the Sriufb trtaty uoas under conjideration;
tbe objections, oj course, against that call, would M
not apply in the present caje, as tbe papers now
called for were wanted to throw light upon a
| fukjeSf conftffedly within the constitution at powers
los the house. He therefore held tbe call not only
to be cmftituttonal, but expedient. Nor could he
fee any ground for the amendment; if the house
had a conjhtutional right to ask Jor information,'
they had a right to aflt for the whole information,
and the President would judge how far he could,
with propriety, comply with the call. But Jince
the house did not inow that the communication of
any of these papers would be improper, the whole
ought to be called for-, and, if the President
Jhould think it proper to retain a part,, be would
doubtless give fufficient reasons to the house for ec
doing so. On a former occasion, when it was ■ w
moved to modify the resolution calling for papers
in the Way now proposed, the motion was re- hi
jecled, because it went to alter tbe principle con- w
tended,, for and he believed tbe fame reason
would lead tola rejection of the present motion, p
i If be believed there Was any constitutional question 'c<
i in this motion for papers, he Jhould vote against , l j
/; but, Relieving the contrary, he Jhould vote in Itl
: fetvourofit, not because he wanted tbe informa- °
■ ' tion, as it was fufficient for btm that the President g
i ■ told the house that the Negociation was at an end, ' 1
■ and that our ministers were refufed an audience, "
I to induce him to go into every measure of defence 11
i proposed; but as other gentlemen wijbeJ it, he P
[ hoped the rejolution would be agreed to, without "
i amendment. "
: The question on the amendment was negatived, *
1 without a division. >
The question then returned upon the resolution,
■ in the following words :
" Resolved, That tbe President of the United e '
! States be requested to communicate It ibis house, c
: | tbe tnftrufiions to and dif patches from the Envoys n
Extraordinary of. the United States to the French J'
f Republic, mentioned in his message of the i <jth
in ft.'' jj|
i Mr Otis said, before the question was taken,
he would ft,ate his intention of voting against the ,
resolution, not from any doubt of the conftiitutional 'j
right of the house to call for the information, nor
froth an indifpofitton to gratijy those gentlemen j
i who want the information-, but being jattsfied i
, his onin mind that the fails stated tn tbe message,
f .are true, ahd that the Gommiffionets who were p
, sent to Franc? were empowered, not only to fettle j n
1 our d fer.tices with that country, but to make | a
reafonuHe concejjions, even where the injury was |
i on their fide; and the Prejident havrtg declared \ a
it-to be b:s opinion that (here is no hope offuccefs ,(j
( from that hiifftbti, hewifbed for nothing farther j
t to convr.ce bim of the propriety of going into the j,
different defehfive measures proposed. If be had j,
indeed conceived that the queftton ofW'aror Peace
was bef ore the house, he might have wijbed its 0
decision to be delayed until every fait relative to
the negociation bad been before them ; but as he i
r did not conceive that any fucb measure bad been £
fta> ted, but only that such dej'enjive measures <•
r fbouldbe taken as a much less degreeof dangerthan c
at present existed, would authorize, he was not
[ willing to take any fbare of the refponjibility as
; to the mconvemtncies and evils which may result
from puhhjbmg/ the cor'efpondence in question.
If the difdofure Jbould endanger the fafety of our
Commifjioners, or operate as a discouragement to
the future free communications of our aget.ts a
-1 ! broad, he Jbould ivijb to steer clear of any blame
on the occajion.
Mr. Gaxlatin observed, that, the fame
i reasons, or nearly so, which ha've been men
i tioned by the gentleman from MaiTachufetts,
j as inducing him to vote against the resolution,
! would induce him (Mr. G.) to vote for it.
He had already dated that, viewing the quef
; tion in the light he did, he did not want fur
l ther information to enable him to decide up
on it. He concluded the (fatement made by
, the President is correct; that it istruethatthere
- is nohjpi of accommodation with the French
, Republic, and that all negociation is at an
1 end ; and taking this as a ground upon which ]
to aft, he was willing toact uponit to the belt ,
f of his judgment. Mr. G. said he considered ]
1 part of the measures propoled, to be measures
t of warj though gentlemen called them ntea- (
, lures of defence ; but, when the fubjedt should
. be gone into, he would prove them to be ,
: thole of war; and that the measure adopted j
i by the President, in relation to arming of ,
; merchant veflels, is a war measure. On this ]
i ground, he was ready to vote against any
t such a£ts, and in favour of any thing which
r tended to counteract their effeft.
But, said Mr. G if there are gentlemen .
- on this floor who conceive that, inaddition to
; the information which has been given to the
t House, the dispatches will give to them more
t irritating matterthan they have yet had, which
s may have a tendency to change the opinions,
- of those who, like him, are in favour of peace
: measures, he had no objeftion to their-being
• communicated. He did not expect, however,
i that any thing of this kind would change his
s opinion. The House had had enough of this
r matter last \feflion, and in the late communi
t cations; but on his mind these would produce
i no effect as to the question of peace or war. It
f is true, as hinted by the gentleman last up,
e that some inconveniencies mayarife from the
dispatches being communicated, as it may
a prevent diplomatic characters from exprefling
f themselves freely in future; but the President
r of the United States was not afraid of this, as ,
. during the last feflion he had communicated
e information of this kind, without being ap
e , plied to for it. But if, after having examin
s ed the dispatches, he is convinced it will be
n highly injurious to the public welfare, oren
d danger the fafety of our Commifiioners, or
- prevent the happy iHite of our negociation, to
. communicate the information, he will either
h give it, or state his reasons for withholding it
d to the House.
e The question was then taken by yeas and
It nays, as follow :
TEAS.
- Meflrs. Allen, Messrs. Holmes,
:s Baer, Hofmer,
o Baldwin, Jones,
il Bard, Livingfton,
it Bartlett, Locke,
Bayard, Lyon,
Blount, Machir,
r, Brent, Macon,
Brookes, Matthews,
Bryan, M'Clenachan,
f Burgess, M'Dowell,
!e Cabell, Milledge,
Chapman, New,
ie T. Claiborne, Nicholas,
f. W. Claiborne, J.Parker,
y Clopton, Pinckney,
Craik, Rutleflge,
ie Dawfon, Skinner,
n Dennis, S. Smith,
ft Dent, W. Smith,
n Elmendorf, Sprague,
ty Fiudley, Sprigg,
ie N. Freeman, Stanford,
is Gallatin, Sumpter,
Giles; A. Trigg,
W Gillefpie, J-Trigg,
■r Gregg, VanCortlandt
j, Grove, Varnum,
i! Hanna, Venable,
Harper, Wadfworth,
i. Harrifon, J.Williams,
I, Havens, R. Williams,
f# i
r
. NATS. '
) Meflrs. Bullock, Mellri,.,Morris,
v Coit, Otis,
3 Dana, I.Parker,
■s A. Foster, Reed,
• y D. Folter, Schureman ?
e Glen, Sewall,
> Goodrich, Shcpard, 1
, ■ Grifwoid, Siniticklott,
', Hartley, N. Smith,
i, HnJinan, Thatcher,
e I inlay, Thorn lon,
f Kittera, Tillinghaft, 1
> Lyinan, Van Allen,
it Morgan, J 7 !
d Meflrs. Allen and Hanna were appotnt
-1 r ed a committee to wait trpon the President
is 1 with the said resolution.
'{ J Mr. KtTTEftA reporteda bill for authori
firtg certain officers so administer oaths, which
1. wtiscommitted tor to-morfbw.
,n .yir. Sew all, .from the committee for the
j. protection of commerce and thedefenceof ilie
I n ' country, made a report on the memorial of
•n | the Chamber of Commerce of New-York, on
„ j the subjeCt ot the insecure state of the harbour
r- ! of tliat port. The report flutes, that Co:i
---n grefshaa this subjeCt under coniideration at
the last feflion, and provided that any state
fhotild be authorised to expend any such fuin
c's upon their fortifications as they should deem
tjf proper, not exceeding the sum of wh.ch such
ut states was found indebted to the United States
in the fettlemcnt of the accuunts between the
Stares and the United States. 'Tins propofi
tioii having been wholly neglected by the
( state of New-York, an Ino ceiiion hav ng been j
made of the so 1, the coiiimittee reqommend - |
ed, after ftatnig that it will be proper to in-
elude a film for purchasing cannon and aminu- '
y S mtion for the said fortifications, propose the
c h jiollowng resolution :
fh " Resolved, That a bill be reported to repeal the ]
provision of ceflion in thj uCt providing for the fur .
B tlicr defence of the port 9 and harbours of the United
f )e States, and to provide in lieu thereof, that tlje for
tifications which Itiall be ere&ed and allo.wed for by
of the United States pursuant to that a<st, shall become i
the property of tbe United States; also to provide
• that any state which shall accept of the proposal
e made by the laid ad, and proceed'to finilh any for
' tification heretofore commenred, and which by the
'f President of the United States shall be judged of use
f j in the defence of any port or harbour, er in making
e I any additional fortification*, under his direction,
as | shall be allowed, in the mariner propo'ed ky th»faid
. ail as well for all previous expenditures, made
I s 1 since march zo, 1794, asforthe expcnces which shall
'' be hiade purfnant to the said proposal, not exceed
"e ing the balance in which such state refpetftively has
1 d been found indebted to the United states."
f The report was committed to the committee,
II of tke whole-oil the state of the union.
" On motion of Mr. Otis, the house went
he irito a committee of the whole on the bill ap
en propriating a sum of money for defraying
" expences incurred by our Consuls and vice
confuls, ami after filling the sum appropriated
'<* with 30,000 dollars, the committee rose, and
as the bill was ordered t,o be engrofTed.
'h The house then resolved itfelf into a com
n - mittee of the whole on'the state of the union,
ur .when after a ftlggefticffl from Mr. Pinckney,
10 that it would be befttopafs overthe iflrefolu
i- tion and go on to the others; and some ob
servations from Mr. N. Smith against passing
over the firft resolution, and in favour of
ne coming to an immediate vote upon it, as be
ingof no consequence, and deciding nothing,
ts > a moiton wasmatle by Mr. Harper for the
n > committeeto rife, in order that thebufinefs
lt : might be postponed until the information
orananfwer from the President on the fub
r_ jeit should be received, which was carried,
P" and the committee rose accordingly, j
b y Mr. Allen informed the house, that the
:re committee appointed to wait upon the Prefi
c'* dent with the resolution which had been
a " agreed to, had performed that service, and he
ch had informed them, that he would take the
matter under coniideration, and do what the
Public Safety should seem to require.
es The order of the, day was next called for on
a ~ the bill for organizing and disciplining the
''d Militia of the United States, and the houffc
b e went into a committee of the whole on this
fubjeit; when the firft which pro
vides for the establishment of a SeletS Corps,
115 having been read, a motion was made hy Mr,
ty Varnum to strike it out, in order to try the
C ' l principle ofthe bill. This motion was advo
cated by Meflrs. Varnum, Nicholas and W.
en C. Claiborne; and opposed by Meflrs. J l .-
to Williams,Macon, Shepard, 8. Smith, Harper,
1 16 Brooks, and Dayton. No question was taken.
)re Committee had leave to fit again.
c h Adjourned.
>ns, ....
ice FOR SALE,
At No. 149, South Front-flreet,
his Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr.
his calk 9
ni - Mountain do. in qr. calks
ice Colemcnar do. in do.
It A few kegs frefli Raisins
ip, ALSO,
he A few packages tf Calcutta Goods—
lay Confuting of
ng Humhums
:nt Ticktry
as . Patnai hintz'
ted Persians, black and coloured
[p. Bandannas, Choppa Romals, Barhar and
; n . Pullicat Handkerchiefs
be a P ril
:n * i wenty Dollars Reward.
' I 'HE Store occupied on account of the United
° JL States, back of No. 71, North Water-street
. wa» on thenightof the 19th inflant (March) bro
' ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine piecas Stroud, viz.
2 374 20 a )^ o ' Bi ue ftroud single
2 37 8 20 i cord.
2379 20
2 380 20 \
2381 2<3> *
2?82 20 v ,
D o . I wo cord,
2383 20
2384 20
■ 2385 20 t J
• The above reward is offered, for the discovery
' of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to juttice*;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, oo delivery of tfee
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
, Keeper Military Stores,
april 1. iw
For Sale,
By Elliston fcf John Perot,
iV-9. 41, North lV*ter Street,
London particular MadeirrfWine, in pipes and
quart r calki, 4 years old and fit for iaimeaiate use.
Inferior do.
ndt A few bales Allibad Coffe*
Bandanna Handkerchirfs ■
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to Q
h, A fewbajs of Juniper Berries
is, A parcel of Soal Leather, aad,
11s. A few boxes of China.
65 march 3 tjj&ffw
AN ORDINANCE
TOR THE REGULATION OF THE MARKET
HELD IN
HIGH-STREET.
WHEREAS the ordinancefor the regu
lation of the marked held in High-'ftreet in t
the city of Philadelphia passed the eighth
dav of June in the year one thousand fsven
hundred and eighty-nine and the supplement
, theret® palled the 26th day of November in
the year one thousand seven hundred and \
I i ninety-two have been found in fume refpe&s 1
incomplete And whereas th<- great increase c
of the said market since the pafliug of the
said ordinance and supplement renders itnnet
ct-ffary to adopt further rules aijd regulati- 1
ans for the government of the fame. J
Set;. I•Be it therefore ordained and e- , I
naßedby the Citizens of Philadelphia in Selett
and Common Councils affmbled That a mar- : t
ket /hall be held in the said city every Wed- *
. nefday and Saturday throughout the year 1
t to begin at day light and end at two o'clock
e in the afternoon between the firft day of A- 1
II pril and the firil day of September follow- c
ing and at three o'clock between the firft 1
s day of September and the firft day of April '
e following and that the limits of tlie said
market (hall be and they are hereby decla ; (
e rd-d to be as follows to <&t beginning fix,ty
11 feet front the east line of King or Water !
street eastward in High-street and thence
extending westward to the east line of the '
e Fifth-ftreet from Delaware and from the J '
south line of Mulberry street to the notth 1
e line of Chefnut-ftreet in Front Second Third '
and Foarth-ftreets from Delaware and in
Strawberry-alley ( Bud'salley commonly cal
y led) Elbow-lane Laetitia-court and Church-i '
e alley and that within halt an hour after the,' !
e time of Suri-rifing on every Market-day j 1
l ' (hong chains well secured (hall be stretched '
acrorfs the passages herein after mentioned
f e fufficient to prevent any horfas cattle carts or
g carriages from entering or palling within the
n, enelofurejS thereby to be m<ide leaving never
** thelefs intervals in proper & convenient pla -
'jj ces for the paflage of persons on foot that
L i' '°foy
ls One chain extending from the south-east
corn?r of the fouthetnmoft engine-house at
right angles to the posts on the south fide «f
High-street,,
1 One chain across Lsetitia-court at the dif
j, stance of not more than fix feet foutbward
• . from and parallel to the south line of High
d street leaving room for the paflage of persons
d on foot
One chain across Second-street at the
J" distance of not more than twelve feet south
ward from and parallel to the south line of
High-street from post to post.
1- One chain with intervals for foot paffen
!g gers from the north-oast corner of the court
house (o the north-weft corner of the Jersey
~ (hambles.
'g One chain across Strawberry-street ope
f s chain across Bud's alley commonly called
n Elbow-lane one chain abrofs Third-street at
'- the distance of not more than twelve feet
southward from and parallel to the south
line of High-street from post to post One
chain with intervals for foot paflengers from
;n the north-east corner of the butchers' Iham
le bles on the wtft-fide of Third street to the
ie north-weft corner of- the butchers' shambles
le on the east fide of Third-street.
One chain extending from the fuuth-weft
ie corner of the (hambles near Fourth-street
f 6 to the line of posts on the south fide of
lis High-street all which chains (hall rtmain
3- stretched and fixed from the time aforefaid
5 > until nine o'clock in the morning on all mar-
r ' ket days between the firft day of April and
the firft day of September and until ten
T. o'clock on all market days between the firft
J l .- day of September and the Srft day of April
r, Sec. 2. And be it further crdained and
n - enaSed That all butchers who (hall frequent
the said market flfall remove their cans car
_ riages and horles wholly without the limitg
of the said market before the time of stretch
ing and fixing the said chain every market
day morning under the penalty of two dol
lars for every cart carriage or horle left by
him htr or them within the said limits to be
recovered with costs before the Mayor or a
ny aldermen of the ci f y as debts under forty
(hillings are recoverable and paid into the
Treasury for the use of the city
Sec. 3- dnd ie it further ordained and
enaSed That the east and weft fides of Front
street and the weft fides of Second Third
and Fourth-streets and the north and south
fides of High-street between the weft line
of Fourth-street and the east line of Fifth
- street within the limits of the said market
herein above mentioned (hall be stands for
borfts waggons carts and carriages in one
o- row each row to be placed as near as
-xj pofiible to the posts or curb-stones by the
fides of the street and leaving the middle and
otfter parts of the said streets open for the
paflage of other horses arid carriages to and
' c from the said market Provided That no
horfei or carriages (hall be placed so near to
the corners of the streets as to obftruft the
foot-ways across the streets or so near to
each other as to prevent foot paffesgers from
walking between them "*
Sec. 4. And it is further ordained and e
naßed That if any owner or driver shall
ry drive or place any waggon cart or carriage
within the limits of the laid market in a di
eoj re&ion contrary to those herein prescribed
h e or (hall leave the fame in any paflage hereby
directed to be left open longer than is abso
lutely necessary .to unlade the fame to the
'• obftru&ion of any other waggon cart or
__ carriage or when called upon to remove (hall
nrgleft or refufe so to do every person so
offending (hall forfeit and pay for every
f j such offence the funi of two dollars to be
recovered with costs i.l the manner and for
the use herein before mentioned.
Sec- 5. And it is further ordained and e
naQed That the several spaces and portions
herein after mentioned and described (hall
be appropriated and ufedby the persons and
fop the uses nest following such descriptions
t» wit
The north fide of High-street between
the eaftcrn limits of the market and.the east
line of Front-street extending fixteui feet
southward from the posts and leaving the
breadth of Watei--ftreet open (hall be a Hand /
for Porters' drays
On the south fide of High-street between
the eastern limits of the market and the east
line of Front-ftfeet leaving the breadth of
Water-street open (hall be a double row of
stands for the venders offrefli fifh of all forts
facing each other and extending in lines east
and weft with their ba(kets before them leav
ing a paflage as five'feet between the rows
of balkets
The Jersey (hambles on both fides from"
the e«gioe houses to the western extremities
thereof (hall he stands for the inhabitants of
Jersey excludvely to expose for sale their
produce
; The fpa'ce from the chain of the engine
■ house on the south fide of high-street to the
breadth of five feet northward of the posts
and extending westward to the east line of
Lxtitia-court (hall be a row of stands facing
the norrh for such inhabitants of Jersey a»
do not occupy stalls in the (hambles to ex
pose their produce ror sale spaces being left
at the distance of thirty feet from each other
for persons to pass to and from the front
; of the line.
The space from the chain of the engine
: house on the south fide of high.ftre.et of the
breadth of five feet southward of the Jersey
(hambles and extending that breadth to the
j east line of Sectnd-ftreet leaving the ave
-1 nues into the said (hambles open shall also
be a row of stands for the inhabitants of
Jersey to expose their produce for sale
The fpaqe from the weft line of Laetitia
; court westward to the east line of Second
i street and of the breadth of five feet north
of the posts (hall be a line of stands to ex
pose for sale earthern wares the
tures erf America until experience (hall
point out other more particular uses for the!
said lpace paflages lcft«in the whole
line at the dirtances of thirty feet from each
other for persons to cross from the brick
pavctnent to the (hambles
/ The fpaee bet ween the weft ends of the
and the east line of the posts
of Second-street leaving intervals for scot
paflengers. shall be a double row of stands
facing each other and having tha paflage
between them as wide as between the sham
bles for the inhabitants of Jersey to expose
for sale their produce.
The space on the fonth and east fronts of
the court-house expending fsur feet thero
from and leaving the paflages between therri
as wide as those under the court-house (hall
• be occupied by the venders of fruit and gar
den feeds.
The whole space under the court-house
leaving a paflage of the breadth of the en
trance from the east to the weft into the
butcher's shambles and cross paflages of a
convenient breadth north and fonth thro'
the arches (hall be for stands for the inhab
itants of the countiy for the sale of their
produce.
The shambles on both fid<-s from the weft
end of the court-houic to their east end
near Third-street (hall be stands for butch
ers as heretofore
The space under th£ cave's of the (ham
bles on the south fide thereof of the breadth
of five feet beginning five feet frojgj the
weft end of the court-house and extending
to the east line of Third-street and from the
weft line of Third-street to the east line of
Fourth-street shall be for a row of stands for
the inhabitants of the country to expose
for sale their producefleaving all the pafla
ges between the (lails open for paffengcrs
The space from the weft fide of Second
ftreet on the south fide of High-street of
the breadth of fWe feet northward of the
posts and extending westward to die east
line of Third-ft»e«t and from the weft line
of Third-street to the east line of Fourth
ftreet shall be for a row of stands facing the
north for expofifig to sale all manner of roats
herbs and yegetable proviflons spaces being
left at the distance of thirty feet for per
sons to pass from the brick pavement to the
(hambles 8c the openings opposite to Straw
berry-alley Buds-alley commonly called El
bow-lane and Mifflin's-alley being left of the
whole breadth thereof
The spaces between the weft ends of the
r (hambles near Third-street and the east line
of Third-street and between the wtft line
of Third-street and the east ends of the (ham
bles near Third-street and slfo between the
weft end of the ftambles near Fourth-street
and the east line of Fourth-street (hall be
for rows of stands for butchers facing each
other and leaving the paflages betwesn them
as wide as between the said shambles
The eastern moieties of the stalls on both
fides of the fh&mbles between third and
fourth streets shall be fur the use of' the
butchers as at present and t{ie western moi
eties thereof for the use of the inhabitants
of the country to expose for sale their pro
duce as provided for by the aft of aflembly
for extending the market and the fujjple
, ment thereto
1 The space under the caves of the eastern
moiety of the shambles on the .north fide
of High-street between third and fourth
' streets shall be a row of stands for the ven
ders of meal of every kind
The space between the eastern line of
[ third-street and the weft line of fecond
ftreet and between the east iine of fecond
ftreet and the weft line of front-ftreet of the
breadth of five feet southward of the posts
on the north fide of high street shall be a
| row of stands for venders of the manufac
tures of America leaving openings of sis- ,
, teen feet at the distance of every thirty feet
: Sec. 6. whereas it is neceflary to ac
r commodate all persons attending the market
and conforming to the regulations thereof
- be it therefore ordained and enacted that the
5 city commiflioners be and they are hereby
1 authorised and empowered whenever they
1 (hall think it neceflary to cause a number of
3 moveable stalls to be placed on market days
on the south fide of the court-house for the
1 use of the fellers of fruit and gardfn feedsand on the north fiie of high ftr.ect faiiftg
the fouthw&rd of and adjoining the
potts between the weft line o,f third street
and theeaft line of fourth street for the use
of such butchers ascannotbeaccommodated
with (lands in the spaces herein before -allot
ted to them openings being left ot the
breadth of fifteen feet in the .range of said
(talis at the distance of every thirty feet Pro
vided always neverthelcfs that nothing here
in contained (hall be taken or construed to
allow any butcher to occupy any stall or
spaCe within the said market free of rent.
Sec. 7. And be it further ordiiined and en
aßed That if any person. or persons after the
pafling of this ordinance (hall wantonfy wil
fully or raalicioufly break or otherwise in
jure the moveable or other (tails which the
commissioners are by this ordinance author
ized or directed to place or which may
have been heretofore placed in the said mar
ket every person so offending and every per
son aiding and concerned in such offende
lhall ferfeit and pay for every such offence a
fine of five dollars to be recovered with colts
in the manner and for the use herein before
njentioned.
Sec. 8. - And be it further ordained and en
« Bed That all and every the spaces within
the limits of the market not .herein above
appropriated as (lands for carts carriages and
horses ar.d for exposing goods and country
produce for sale (hall be and they are here
by declared to be open and free paflages
within the said market and the fame (hall
be kept open and free from all obftrudtions
whatsoever for the more easy paiTage of the
citizens and others during the hours of mar
ket and if any person (hall keep or place a
ny thing therein to hinder the free passage
of the citizens and.qtljers a,| d (hall not
forthwith remove such obftrudtions upon
request every person so offending (hall for
feit and pay the sum of two dollars to be
recovered with colts in the manner and for
thg use hefein before rrientioncd.
See. <■). Stud be it farther ordained and e
naSed That no butcher or other person (hall
(laughter or kill any beast within, the limits
of the said market nor lay any.garbage dung
or offal therein under the penalty of forfeit
ing the fum.of five dollars for every such of
fence to be recovered with cods in the man
ner and fpr the use herein before mentioned.
■ Sec. io.- And it is further ordained aiid
enacted That no person whatever (hail at any
time fell or expose to sals any beer cider or
fpiritnons liquo.rs of any kind mixed or un
mixed by retail within the limits ef the said
market under the penalty of forfeiting the
sum of five dollars for every offence to be
recovered and appropriated as-herein before
diredlea
Sec. 11. And it is further ordained and
tnaded That no (teelyards (hall be used with
in the limits of the said market and that all
provilions of every kind fpld by weight or
reeafure fnall T>e weighed and nreafured by
weights and measures duly regulated and
stamped by the effic«r legally appointed for
that purpose atjd if any person (hall be guil
ty of felling by (teelyards or by weights or
measures not regulated and (tamped as afore
faid or by scales falfly balanced he or (he
(hall forfeit fueh (teelyards weights measures
or scales and pay the sum of live dollars to
be recovered and appropriated as herein be
fore diredled
Sec. 12. /nd it is further ordained and
enaSed That all blocks benches tubs or other
things used in the market for the accomoda.
tion of butchers and ethers whiltl occupying
the (hambles (hall be placed and kept with
in the limits of the (ta'i3 by them occupied
in such manner as not to extend into the
market houses fr.rther than two feet fix inch
es beyond the inner edgfc of the said (tails
refpedtively and all perfops who (hall use or
oScupy any of the (hambles aforefaid fhali
immediately after market hours on market
day's & on other d?ys before they leave the
market place or cause to be placed all blocks
and benches used by them in the market un
der the planks of their refpeaive (tails and'
there cause the fame to be secured by strong
chains arid locks so that the said blocks or
benches fiiall not extend in any way bevond
the edges of the said plonks to the interrup
tion of the citizens pafling within the market
and if any owner or occupier of any block
bench tub or other thing used as aforefaid
fliall cause or fuffer the fame.to be placed or
remain otherwise than is;herein before menti
oned and diredled such person so offending
(hall forfeit aad pay for every such offence
the sum of two dollars to be recovered and
appropriated as herein before directed
Sec. 13. And it is further ordained and
enacted That no person or persons (hall
bring or use any wheel-barrow within the
market-houses or (hambles on market days
and in market hours under the penalty of
one dollar to be recovered and appropriated
as h»;rein before dire died
Sec. 14. /nd it is further ordained and
tnaded That Bo person or persons (hall ride
lead drive or bring any horse or horses on
market days within the limits of the chains
as prescribed by this ordinance during the
time of the said chains remaining fixed under
the penalty of forfeiting for every fueh of
fence the sum of two dollars to be recover
ed aixi appropriated as hereinbefore directed.
Sec. 15. And it is further ordained and
enacted That no person or persons attending
the market for the purpose of vending any
article or articles of provision fruit herbs
roots garden feeds or of goods and wares the
SmanuUdtures of America (hall use or occupy
any othef place of (land withiii the limits of
the said market than the space or (land spe
cially appropriated to the feveraldelcriptions
of persons mentioned in this ordinance un
der the penalty of forfeiting for every of
-tence the turn*of two dollars, to be recover
ed aud 'appropriated as herein before diiect
cd
Sec. IC. And it tt further ordained and'
enaßed r.;at no person who follows the bj
fiiiefs of a nuckfter or of felling provisions 1
vegetables nuts or fruit at fecoud hand'fhall 1
at any time fell or offer for sale within the <
limits of. the market any provilions vegeta- j
fo'rs mitj r>r frcit of any feint! under the pe
nalty of forfeiting for ever ytfuch offence the
sum of five dollars to be recovered and ap
propriated as herein before diredted
Sec. 17. And it is further ordained and
enaSed That no person or perfous (hall at
any time except on market days and in mar
ket hours fell or expafe to sale either on the
(hambles or flails of the market or on the
pavements within or surrounding the fame
any soup or soups under the description of
pepper-pot or any other name whatsoever or
boiled Indian-corn pickled oyfleis or other
drelfed victuals under the penalty of forfeit
ing for every such offence the sum of one
dollar to be recovered and appmpriated as
herein before directed • »f>* c/ 1 »
feec. 18. And it is further ohdaintd and
enacted That the Clerk of the market (hall
and he is hereby authorized and empowered
tp provide effectual means that no horses or
cattle be permitted to enter within the en
closed market through any passage whatso
ever and that no cattle of any kind (hall be
brought or exposed to sale within the limits
of the market herein before deferred
Sect. 19. .'nd be it further orda'tned and
enabled That it (hall be the duty of th«" clerk
•r clerks of the market and his or their de
puties to attend in the said market from the
beginning to the end of the hours of mar
ket on market days and at such other heurs
as (hall be necefTary in order to enforce obe
dience to all and every the rules and regula-,
tions herein contained and such other rules
and regulations as (hall from time t* time
be ordained and enadted refpedling the said i
market and ten minutes immediately before
the fixing of the chains herein before diredt
ed to be pfaced| to cause the court-house
bell to be rung in order to give notice to
the Butchers to remove their carts and car
riages as herein before diredled To prevent
all unfotlud and untf»holefome provisions
from being fold Or expiifed to sale by seiz
ing the fame and taking fuih order thereon
as fliall be diredted by the Mayor or some
one. of tlie Aldermen ai'id te weigh try and
examine all bread butter lard and other arti
cles of proviffons fold in loaves or in lumps
of a given orjacfcultomed weight to fee that
the lame are of due weight fsr which the
fame are offered or ought to be and to try
all scales weights and measures by whieh
' any provisions offered f<?r sale in .the said
market are to be weighed or measured and
to enforce the payment and recovery of all
penalties arrd forfeitures which by this or
dinance or by an adl of General Assembly
of this (late or fcy common law are inflidted
on any person affending against the rules
and regulations of mark-ts in general or of
the said market in particular and to decide
all disputes which may arise in the said
market between buyer and feller touching
weight or measure of the things bought and
lold and to examine all persons fufpedtedof
felling provisions as liuckfters at second
hand and to prosecute acccording to the
directions of this ordinance all fmch as (hall
be found offending against the fame and to
colledl all and every ef the rents of the (tails
in the said market and forthwith to pay the
fame after the dedudtipn hereinafter men
tioned to the Trcafut-e'p of this Corporation
taking receipts for the fame and to prevent
any pcWon? (excepting Butchers and coun
try people bringing their produce to mar
ket for fale)from expoGng to sale apy goods
wares merchandizes provisions or other
things whatsoever on any days or at any
hours but on market days and in market
hours and on market.days, and in market
hours in any other manner or at any other
(lands than are herein above diredted and
to cause all th? pavements under the several
laws of (hambles 3nd under the court-house
to be swept and all dirt filth and fnaw to
be removed from the fame into the open
flreetß by the fides of the (hambles and to
take care that-the said dirt and filth as well
as that which may have been colledted in
other parts.of the limits of the said market
be be removed at leafl jwicc in every week
hy diredtion of the City Commrflioners who
are hereby enjoined and required to make
the.necessary provisions forthat purpefe.
Sec. 20. And it is further ordained and
enadted that the Clerk or Clerks of the
market who (hall perform the duties by this
ordinance required fli»l] b&entitled to detain
out of the rents of the Halls by him and
them colledted at aforefaid after the rate of
!wo and one half dollats in every hundred
dollars and no more for.collcdting and pay
ing the fame and the said clerks of the mai
ket (hall not receive or take from anyptrfon
or persons whatever felling or exposing to
sale any provisions or other articles in the
market any fee perquisite or reward to his
or their own use
See. 21. And it is further ordained and
enabled tHat the clerks of the market afore
faid fliall be and they are hereby authorised
ants empowered to employ two suitable per
sons to perform the menial parts of the ser
vices required by this ordinance at such wa
ges as (hall be agreed on by the said clerks
with tne approbation ef the mayor.
Sec. 22. And it is further ordained and
enacted 1 hat each Clerk of the market be
fore he (hull enter upon the duties of his of
fice (hall together with two sureties to be ap
proved of by the feledt and common council*
become bound to the Mayor and aldermen
and citizens of Philadelphia in the sum of
two-thousand dollars with coalition there
under written that if he (hall iTi all things
well and faithfully perform aft' and singular
the duties herein above required of him as a
Clerk of the market By an ordinance of the
citizens of Philadelphia in Sdedt and com
mon councils assembled passed the twenty
ninth day of March in the year one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-eight entitled
" an ordinance for- the regulation of the
market held in high-street" & do & (hall well
&.truly pay to the trcalurer 6f this corpora
tion all and singular the monies received by
him for the rents of the flails in the said mar
ket deducting onlythereout two & one haif
dollars in every hundred dolia s 'orco'ledtin
paying the fame then this obligation shall
be void it ILall be and remain in
full force and virtue
Sfc. 23 And it i: furth:t\ ordained and
enaHed Tbat the Mayor and the several al
dermen before whom any of the penalties
or forfeitures hereby infli£ted (hall be recov
ered (hall once in every three months render
an .account thereof and of the perfoss from
whom the fame (hall have been severally re
covered arid received and pay the amount
thereof to the-Treafurer of the corporation.
Sec. 24. And it is further ordained and
enaSed Tiiat-no wutcber or other pcrfon at
tending the market with provifioi;s (hall re
rnain on market days within the limits of
the fame longer than duriag the hours of
market under the penalty.of forfeiting for
every fgch offWnce the fnm of five dollars to
be recovered and appropriated as herein be
fore directed
Sec- 2J. And it is further ordained and
enaSed That an ordinance of the Mayor al'-
dermen and citizens of Philadelphia entitled
" an ordinance §for the regulation of the
market held in High-ltreet in the city of
Philadelphia on fourth and seventh days of
the week called Wednesdays and Saturdays"
passed the eighth day of June in the~year
one thousand seven hundred aird eighty-nine
and the fupplefnent thereto passed the twen
ty-sixth day of November one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-two be and the fame
are hereby repealed and made null and void
EnaSsd into an ordinance at Philadelphia
on the 29th day of March in the year
one thousand seven hundred and ninety
eight
KEARNY WHARTON
n <5 C■* President of the Common Council
FRANCIS GURNET
President of the ScleS Council
By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, March 31.
Yesterday arrived Uhnyi, captain
Porter, from Ramfgate ( England) which
he left February 5, Captain P, was board
ed bvaFrench vessel of war which took
his.latest newspapers, ftri£tly examined his
(hip's' papers, and broke open' some of his
packages to fee if lie had English goods «n
board, but finding none, permitted him to
pass. Captain P. was originally from Ham
burg, but put ints Harwich, and then again
into Ramfgate, in distress. His verbal in
formatiot is not very intCrefting, as noevent
of confequencc Ijad lately tra»fpired. gA
! petition frsm the American merchants for
convoy had been opposed by Mr. Pitt, who
argued that as our government was disposed
to monopolize the carrying trade to them
selves, find had laid an'oppreffive duty on
Britilh bottoms, the petition ought not to
be granted ; and a gentleman writes from
Lpndom, under date of February 1, that
British vessels would bring out the goods
this'feafon, and our own return empty.!
Arrived schooner Argo, capt. Gardner,
20 days from St. Jago. into which place he
was taken on his.passage from Jaquemel to
Baltimore, and liberated without a trial, by
purchasing hid papers.
Captain Derby, from- Boston, in the fchr.
Theoda, informs, thatonSaturday, the 24th
instant, he spoke a black (loop (names of
master and vessel unkijoyvn) 70 miles E. by
S. from Cape Henlopen, from Philadelphia
to St. Croix, out three days, but having
loft one of his rudder irons, in a severe gale at
S. E. he was trying to get into the capes
again.
CHARLESTON, March 20.
In the schooner Three Friends, capt.
Cook, which arrived yesterday from Jac
quemel, came paffengtr capt. Dixon, late
of the snow Fox of this port, belonging to
Messrs Cross and Crowly, who confirms
the accounts already received of the con
demnation of his vessel by a judge at the
city of St. Domingo, who, ou account of
improper conduit in this and other instan
ces, has firtce been removed from office.
The snow was captured by a French priva
teer, secretly commanded by one Love, an
outlawed Englifhtnan, whose conduft 13
proverbial amotigft the islands, and who
has, it is said, repeatedly committed adts
which amount to piracy. .
Captain Cross, who was a passenger in
the snow, remains in St. Domingo, jn
hopes of receiving reparation ; he was for
tunate iri their meeting with capt, Garrif
can, who politely hai afforded him e.
very assistance he ttood in need of, to prose
cute his Claims.
Yesterday morning, between the houis
of 3 and 4 o'clock, a fire broke out in this
city, in a back building in Federal street,
near the corner of King street, ocup'ied by
Dr. Floyd. When it was firft discovered,
the flames had got to a eonfiderable height
and before assistance could be had, commu
nicated to | the neighbouring buildings, of
which it dcftroyed fix dwelling-houses in
King (Irect, and three in Federal-street,
belides a number of (tables and back build
ings.
. By some negledt the citizens were not
alarmed in due time : the bells did not be
gin to ring for more than half an hour after
the fire was discovered.
The fufferers in King street are-
Mr. Brockvvay, who loft a new range of
(tables, a kitchen, and a dwelling house
adjoining the one he resides in, which also
lVtonfiderably damaged.
1 Mr. Brockway, it will be recolle&ed,
was burnt out, and loft a great deal by the
fire which happened in King-street inJMay,
1796.
Mr. Wifiifger, the baker, two houses.
Messrs. I and C. Bulow, oue house.and
a conficler ibl qua itity ot"good?.
Hart Levy, one house, and a considerably
q jan ity of goods.
Messrs. Robinson & Pendall, on house,
and a considerable quantity- of goods.
_ In Federal street—Mr. John Frederick
Kern Joft two excellent three 'ftcry house?
tenanted by Dr. Kirkland and Mr. Alexan
der Petrie, who loft a considerable part of
their hoofchold furniture ; and a hoafe be
longing to Dr. Poinfett, occupied by
T. Baron was also dcftroyed.
This latter gentleman'slofs is considerable
—but to add to his misfortune, about an
hour after the fire was flopped, as one of
the engines conduced only bynegroes, who
appeared to be intoxicated, was retufning
furioufly through the street, he was thrown
down by it ; it passed over his left leg and
broke it in a (hocking manner.
From the best information which can be
collected, there is good reason to believe
that the fire of yesterday was the effeft of
some unfortunate accident which originated
in the kftchen of Dr. Floyd, and of which,
aftor a drift investigation made fry.itbe lire"
masters, they have not been able to leafa the
cause.
A !mall house belonging to a Mr*. Scot
tsw a widow, who has fevetalfinall children
and fnpports herfelf and them by keeping
a ichool was pulled down to prevent the fire
fpieading—a deed of real charity will be
performed, by those who may be so bene
volently inclined as to aflift her in erefting
it again.
At this fire, {he new pateßt engines late
ly imported from London, and made by
Mr; Bramah, had the firft opportunity of
being fairly tried -their performance is al
lowed by all to be much superior to those
built on the old plan.
TLijt <Ba?ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, April 3
.
, A message from the Prefidentof the U
nited States was received this day by the
House of lleprefentatives inanfvyer to their
request for the inftruftionsrJto, and commu
nications from, our Envoys Extraordinary
to the French Republic;, accompanied by
thole instructions and communicati
ons, previous to the reading o£ which, the
Galleries were cleared. \
The funeral of Mr. Moreton will proceed
from the house of Mr. Freeman, No. 39,
South Front-street, precisely at fix o'clock
this afternoon, to which his friends and the
public are refpe&fully invited.
Died, lately at Savannah, after a linger
ing illness, captain Robert B. Mease,
of this eity.
Th» French privateer Pandour, captain
Garafcan, was lately sent into Cape Nichela
Mole, a prize to one of Admiral Bligh's
fleet. —r
In the Senate of the legillature of this
State, certain amendments were ftiade to
the bill providing for the removal of the feat
of government, which being disagreed to
by the House of Representatives, commit
tees of conference were proposed, which
also being rejeded, the bill of courfc was
loft. _
The schooner Betsey, James Duncan,
matter laden with wheat and flour, bound
from Fredericklburgh to Philadelphia, wa3
loft on the 22 d of March off Cruddock on
the eastern fide of the Chesapeake in the
countyof Accomack, (Virginia) the hands
and paflengers, seven in number perished ex
cept a uegro sailor. The negro relates that
he undarilood the cargo was laden by Wil
son and Co. of Fredericklburgh and consign
ed to his Son in Philadelphia.
A HINT
to the friends of the Schuylkillpermanent bridge.
By the law nutboriling theerciftion of the inten
ded bridge, in I'll iked in Claypoole's paper last
week, ic u itl he perceived, that th« majority of
the ftockboMers are to determine, either themselves
or by authority delegated to the managers chol'en
by ;he majority of ftockholders—tbsfite of the bridge
1 hose therefore who have a predilection for any
particular fp<>t, rauft endeavor to compose the re
quiQta majority, by fubferifeing in fuffieient num
bers on rnonday next— one dollar mud be paid, in
cap, for every (hare fubferibed, or the fubferip.
tions will be void as to those not-coming prepared
with money.
April 3, T798
New-York, April 2.
ARRIVED. bays
Brig David and George, White, Antigua 17
Nancy, King, Bay of Honduras 27
(They were still in expectation of an invasion
from the SpanHh at the Bay.)
Sir John Wentworrh, Martinique 20
Schr. Elizabeth, Pigot, Norfolk 2
Neptune, Whi:!o t k, Martinique 21
S'oop Polly, Duncan, Richmond ro
For;une, F.mle, N. Ca-olina 4
The Owners of 5982 Dollars
Captured in the schooner Lovely Lady of New-
Yt rlc, captain Edward Juhnfton, by the French
privateer Revanche, captain Anteine Berard, on
the 13th o laifjuly, are requetted to make imme
diate application to the Department of otate re
fpeiling the fame.
Department ot State, 7
Philadelphia, April a, 1798. J
Jull Landkig
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of Franc*,
And for sale By
Joseph Anthony £s* Co.
110 bales Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
350 bags do. coffee
24 r asks do J Indigo
april 3 ' diet
TO LET,
AParlour and three Bed Chambers,
Kitchen and Cellar. Enquire at No. 26, South
Fifth flreet. ,qt apVil 3
Six Pence Reward.
RAN AWAY from th« fubferiber on the
K tfi March last, an apprentice Boy, na
med Adair. Banian, hv trade a Baker, about 4
feet 10 irclits high, and has loft a finger on hi*
left hand, en years of ap;e ; had on
when he went away, blue jnckef, rel waificeai,
coating trowrfer-s, a piir ot brse.filver buckles
in his fn* s Whoever will apprehend said boy
and bring him to his malier «g«k, {hall re-'
ceive t! e-above rw.'.rd. and no charges paid by
"if. CHVKJ'FS BASTIAN. .
april 7 # lt
NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. Fen Nell's Night.
THURSDAY EVENINd, April 5, ,
Will be prefixed (.for the firft time tUi> feafoa; 1
cerebrated Tragedy, called
KING LEAR ;
AND SIS THREE DAUGHTERS.
K.ng-L txr, Mr. Fepnell ,
Burgundy, Warrell, jum
Cornwall, Hardinge
Albany, Fox
GloSer, Warrell
Kent, Warren
E <te«, » Wignell
Edmund, Mariall
Gentleman Ufoer, Francis
Oldman, Hunter
Mrs. Hardin S o
*®». Francjs
Araute, Mil", L"FH range
CordelU, Mrs. Merry
Krights attending on the King, Officers, M<£Ten.
gers, &c Mcffrs. Lavancy, Lafferty, DotScr &a
End of (fie Tragedy, a Ballet Dane? (comp'ofej
Ky Mr. Byrne) called,
THE DRUNKEN PROVENCAL ;
OR, THE SAILOR'S RETURN,
'vi e, nir Byrne—Will, mr Warrell, jutt,—-Vi
car, mr Doctor—Moses, mr BliiTetr DickevOcf.
fit;-., mr T Warrell.
Suian, roifs Milbourne—Jenny, mrs Byrne.
To w!iich will be added, a new Farce, cajfed the
ADVERTISEMENT; '
OR, A NEJV WAY TO GET MARRIED.
[Written by Mr. Fennell.J
Aldiraian Goi'jrell, Mr. Warns
Yo'j. eGofwell, Bernard
©Trigger, Hard luge
Peruque, Fox
Harry, Harivood
Thomas, BlilTett
Mrs.iCourtney, JVlrs. Francis
Mrs.-Snip, Mrs, L'Kfrrange
Bctt y- MiftlTflrwige
Kltt y. Mrs. D, am-
Tickuts to be had at the usual places.
0" On Saturday Inning, the favorite Come
dy of THE HUMORIST, or, WHO'S WHO >—
THE WIDOW OF MALABAR; to which will
be added, the Farce of the WANDERING JEW,
for the Benefit of Mr. Harwood.
03" Sales of Muslins postponed,
On account of the weather,
Till TO-MORROW, j o'clock, P. M.
15 bales of East India Muslins,
By the bale, for appraved endorsed notes at 60
and 90 days—confuting of
Baftas
ColTaes
Guzzenas
Handkerchiefs, See.
The whola entitled to drawback.
FOOTMAN £3" Co. Juß'rr.
dt»
NOW LANDING,
Frwi on baaid the f C hr. Charlotte from Bolton,
30 chefta Bofcea
30 do. Hyson £ TEAS
36 do. Souchong j
And from on board the ft hoonfr Favourite from
*> Richmond (Vir.)
648 bWs. fuperfine ) „ T „ TTI>
66 do. fine j FLOUR #
- And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale on reasonable terms, by
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
N0...66, Soutk Front ftieet.
»?"' 3 .raw,w
NOTICE.
THE Partnerlhip of the/übferibers, trading un
der the firm of PAXSON & RICH/CRD
SON, was dilTolved on the Cxih of rhe third mr-nth
fall, by mutu 1 cunfent. All persons indebted
thereto are earnestly requeued to make payment ;
and those that have any demands againlt the famcj
are desired to present their accounts for fettlemenc
to cither of thefubferibers.
Isaac Paxfon,
Nathaniel Rithardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798%
isaac~paxson,
Continues to carry 011 the bulinefs at the usual
place, No. 10, South Third ttreet, where he has
on hand a large afl'ortment of Ironmongery, Sad.
dlcry, Cutlery and Brsfs Wares, which ht wi tfell
vrhoUfale or retail, ou low terms, for c.dh or tha
-usual credit He expefts to receive by the firft
ve&els from London, Bri.lol, Liverpool and Hull,
a large addition to his prefect assortment ; and
will execute with pu'-etuality and care any order*
from t,he former cuftojners, a d hi. friends in een
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of !Ger
mantown, end about five miles from the city;
the whole being under good fen-e, and in ex
cellent order as pallure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elmott Csxsson, at hi.s Office for the
lale ot KealEftates, Conveyancing, &c. No. <4,
High-llreet. J '
4th mo. 3d. tu&fnt
lira el Morris "j
' agafnft | Maryland.
ThomasMargatroyd,James Bell, j liiChancer.,
Mar&sll ai.dßeiijamin Smith, r March B,'
Executors of Samuel Tucker, j i7 gß.
defeafed.
o'Djea of the bill, is for the Complain-
JL naift, Ifrae! Morris, to obtain relief ajainft
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 1781, <0 the said Samu
el Tucker, lor the sum of .£.200 principal.—
Ih« relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Conipiainart assigned, by. way of fecuntv for
the laid money, a t*'nd , }0 him the Complain
aet, executed by Samuel Downing, for the sum
of £.350 that the said Tucker reedfved of the
money due oti the said last mentioned band the
and neglefted to take steps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became iiifolvent.
j lie bili Mates that all the defendants are
now residents of the State, ft is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, thai he
cauf'e of this order to be inserted, three
weeks rucfeffively, in Pome newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which thedefen lants reside,
at any time before the firft dav of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the fa;d day ; to the intent tha;thev
have notice of the complainants appl ca*ior, to
this court and of the fvbllar.ee and obj-a of his
bill and may he warned to appear here on or
before the third Tucfday in September next, to
csufe,' wherefcre 3 decree fl.ould not pals
asyrayed.
' At'eft,
BAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. C 'u.
3 P r 3 co iwJUST RECEIVED,
ruoM /tfg
And FOK SALE, by the SUBSCRICKRS, (
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do. . ijgf
100 tarreli <Ty
too bags do ' &■
lio hoe"headsof Muscovado Sugar . " "
80 barrel.of do. J*#
40 hoglheads of Molafles K ° l
4 bale* of Cotton
2 ho.-(heads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS, wh
Penn-ftreet. Iby fan
1- $ mai
march 12. S— | ——
~ FOR SALE,
BY the subscribers, No. ii» Penn-ftreet, I 19-5
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, £»
John Green, commander,from Bengal, wiu ,
Conkfting of _ cis'
Baftas, of various qualities and prices, ian
Coffaes Punjum Cloth* Jj
Sauahs Guzzey do. »j
Humhurat Charconna Dore*
Blue Cloth Tanjfbs -*
Chintz and Calicoci MulmuU
Mamoodys Checki
Mahanagongea PaMia Hkfi# I ma
Ginghams Mwlmu do.
Guzzenas Bandapnocl
Gui rahs Siflerfoy At t
Piniafcoei Cboppa RomaU frc
Salgatrbys Sooty do. frc
Gillie RomaU Perfuns of Tanous col. F
Mock Policats
* too torn SUGAR
j»,.001b PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to fait at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of cle- I
gant pattern* and best colours.
February 8. I
A Bargain. I p
A quantity of Window Glass I
FOR. SALE, of different sizes, at a very large #3
discount from the sterling cost. If this Glass is I J
nut difpofcd of bef -re the Jth of April, it will be I
Slipped from this port | „
For terms apply to No. 89, South Fhird-lireet. 1
march 16. s lw I
THE PARTNERSHIP OF I h
WELLS y MORRIS, IJ
HAVING expired on the llth February J
all persons having demands agaiml the laid I
PartneHhip, are requefled tofurnith their accounts |
for rettieme.it ; and those indebted to the fame, to nm
make immediate payment to the fubferiber I
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The business will be tarried on as hereto- |
fore, by the futferiber, at his S.orc, No. l J5, Mar- I n
ket-flreet. >« march 24. 1
NOTICE.
THR.ES Certificates of Sit Per Cent. Deferred I
Debt of the United States ol the following |
4efcnption, viz —N.o. 10033, 100341 and 10935, 1
for 5000 dollarsaach, dat d Bth May, 1797> LyZ
ftiii.m j 011 the books el' the Treasury of the Urn-
ted States, in the n .me of Benjamin Waddmgton, gag
of l.anovrHou'e.Qeafr 4 btrgavenney m England,
Efu. have b/ en loft by the rip,t«re ol the ship liac- j
chus, from hence te l.ondon.iu June laft.—ln;»,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that I
apjliCj'ion will be mad at, the I'reaftiry of the U
nttcdStitesfor a re*ewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood. 5 g
march 11 %(jH IMi
r j 'HI'. t .'m of Co-partnei*ibip between the sub- Te
X fcribers trading under t!v firm of John Mil- Ol
Ur, jun. ai.d Co. expires this day, and by mutual Im
consent w.'d not be renewed- The debts and con- Sa
cernv of the fame wiil be fettled by John Miller, I Di
Jun. to whom all tho4e indebted,to the parrtnerfhip 9 I
are earn-Illy requested ts make payment to, with- I N;
out delay. I Bl;
JOHN MILLER, Jun. Q,
ALEXANDER J. MILLER. Y<
February 19 I A
L AND!NG,
From on board the Ship Sally, from I p.
Calcutta, 1 q,
AND ro* SAL, BY TBI SUBSC*I»»*,
1600 bag« prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods. I
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 $ I
* 'FOR SALE, by ~
John Miller, jun. s
No* 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS, I ,
AMOKCST WHICH Ul—
Gurrahs M;m*odies I '
Baltas Sannas
Guzzenas l'anda Coifaes'
Ouzzies Emertics I
Blue Cloths Calic«es |
Pa'am oirs Romall Handkerchiefs I ,
/mnngit them are a great proportion of the ma- I
ftufaflures of Patßa. I 1
British Dry Goods,
ALSO, I .
Forty puncheons,ot high proof Rum.
FAruary 19 I
Jiex. J• Miller iff James Davis, I
Having entered into pjrtuerfhip under the firm of I
Alexander J. Miller £g" Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that I
th y have opened a Wholefile Dry Good Store, I
at No 64, South Frent Srrect, Philadelphia ; wher>/ I
they now have, and irttend kceeping a general as 1
/•Jtnient of Uj, Gtrmtn, Irijb, French and Mri_ I
tijb Mannfafluresfcr sale, oa advantageous termt" I
for e«lh or afhort creait.
Febnsary 19 §'f I
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the ictb I
inft. Ticket# for Sale in this Lottery, at I
Seven DMlan, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery J
*nd Broker' Office, No. 64, South Seconi-ftrect—
Tickets in At Schuylk',ll Pri.lge Lottery, at Ten
DMan, where check books are kept lor rsgifter
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing- I
ton, No. 11.and Pattvifon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the Mates of the
Union. , I
N.B. The businesses a Broker, inbuyingand
felli'ig all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco-ating Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of I
Lands, Houles, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November tj- }
- : Ross SIMSON,
HATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of B<ngal CO'ITON
Pcrgal -UOAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, T
St. Vincent., > RU..I.
and b *gal J
SCO raflts RICE, tnd
a parcel of thip baildirg Riß CEDAR.
Oft. »7- i
For Savannah, Interj
(ft fail on Saturday the "]tb of April) ]' J -
SHIP TfcFIN(
xdCt SWIFT PACKET, B bo,
PatriciC Gutbbin, * Engliih.
A regular eftab'iftied Packet with ges: he
elegant accommodations. for as advoc
freight or parage apply .o the Mailer on board at well qu,
Rof's wharf, or to MR
N. y J. Fraxur, a
So. 95, South Front Street.
Whohave for sale a quantity oi prime new Rice
by said vessel. . the best
who wi
FOR SALE. I obtain 1
!' 5 do ie b7own] Havannah Sugar _ marc
100 Hides r ° W JC AHi
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran- 1
cis's wharf, from on hoard the brig Adive, Will-1
iam Wilhatns, mailer. Ai
U' g c
And may take in iramedi- ew- y,
I JSKVmw-X- ately after discharged. T i,i»
a PP>T '0 and be;
Jehu Holhngfworth 13 Co. of j6o
J march 30. §_ 1 back;
This Day \.vill be Landed,
lAt Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge, fcetu
j from on board the brig Eliia, capt. Vaughan, I wi(h a
1 from Malaga— two fii
Frefli Fruits, Wine and Brandy betwec
Lemons in and ha.f chefla I
Raisins of the Sun in kegs 1 street,
Fig* in do. I
I Spft (hcll'd Almonds in sacks
Grapes and Olives in jars I ▼
Bloom and Muscatel Raitns in bo*e3 1 A
'' I Anchovies in kegs I tn! "
'■ I Jordan and Bitter Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. caiks j
Braifdy in butts, &c. &c. I q
w "" l * rETE RKUHH.
P The above Brig for sale
immediately applied tor ; Ihe
' r 1 ' s a remarkable fine fall failing j A .
" Bel, having made her paffagC
bt to and iom Malaga in little more than todays.
!t I ma ch t6. Allufi
FOf S THfe SLOt>P f*
HARRIOT, co
I NOW lying at RuffeTi Wars I rct
Bu' tlUt' 7 tons—three y.ar. old, built of the best W;
to materials and is well sound-Would answer well Ai
f«- a coaster, as (he has excellent accommodations. c a
For terms appiy to | tic
1 Gurney C£T o mith. m
°" I £ I ins
ir- I marell ?3 —Br
For Hamburgh, Cc
THE SHlf I ™
Ajglkfc Dominick Terry, a*>
I d' J(?hn Fleming, Majler,
>n, gaged.—For freight apply to j
id, Jejfe & Robert Wain.
' c * j February »6_ s—. j ®
lat Nicklin Ss? Griffith,
U " At their Store on W*lnnt Street Wharf Q
HXV* FOR SAH*,
I 58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
[ I NJadeira Wine in pipes andhhfli. I
ih". TenertSe do. in pipes j ln ™
lil- Old Port do. in hhds. 0
„al Imperial Tea in a uarter« and eighth, of ch*tt« I- »■
on- Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8 I ___
ler, Dimities, Ginghams, a«d Moflirets, m pacta
lip, ges suitable for the Well-India market
ith- Nails aflorted
I Black quart bottles I A
I Qiieens ware in hhds.and crates I'
R. J Yellow ochr? dry in calks ; I Y"'
_ And at New-'J ork, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expedled round trav
I as fnon as the navigatio* i» op-en, |cd r
° m I Fine Liverpool Salt * j min
I Coals a " d
Spanish Brown 1 P'°:
I Venetian Red I n ß'
\ PAH * T ' =
I a
5 I Red Lf ad J rea
" J ™~ 1 Colcothar vitriol
1 160 bundles Sheathing paper
I Seaming Twine
DS I .Ship Diana,
' j For Sale or Chatter. y
j ALSO,
I Brig Amazon.
liefs I
iema- 1 N.B. Chelate firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
I is now cha»gtd tr> t
mCKLIN y GRIFFITH. g
I January 1. co^lL_
5 For Sale or Charter,
l«. I 7hi Snow
irm 01 SSIm good hope
Will carry about uoo barrels, and
f, that is ready totake in a cargo. For terms
Store, I ipply to F ]
< J 1 Pragers & Co.
:ralaf- 1 No. iji, South Second-street.
termt" I Wl,(> have or f* le —P r ' me St Croix Sugar
I and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win#.
§ t f I November 7. dtf
11. Wanted,
ie icth I An aAive, cleanly, induQrious woman to cook t
:ery, at I a/id do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
.ott.ry J will be allowed g<iod and no other needap
treet— j ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
at Ten February 7 >■ 5 *"
aihing- Notice is hereby given, t n
forma- I r i 'HAT application will be made for the renewal v
Lotte- j J[ c f t Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
of the I United States, (landing in the mme of the Subfcri- t
I ber, Na. 5004, and dattd-July ri, 1797 —the fame
ingand I h av ing feeen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
ffV.' ' !
RN. HO LET,
I And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent Hand for, '
. and bnfia<f». Apply to
Thomas & JoJhua FVhtr,
march I. S No. Doek-Dreit.
TO RENT, 1
A good three story Houle,
TWO room« on each florr, with a convenient
Kitcten— in Front, near Scuth-ftreet.——Enquire i
$ of the Printer, march 3 —3aw3w
' I
Interpreter of Foreign Languages. 1
JOSEPH E G. M. DE LA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. no,
BEING duly commidioned ind sworn in the a- rj
bove capacity, offers to translate the Frenc , n ine
English. Spanish, Portuguefeand Italian Langua- Aa
ges: he flatters hitnfelf that his former profelllon, uA|
as advocate both in France and St. I>omingo, as
well qualified him to tranflite any Court proceed- firft
I ings or other Jud ciary inflruments. 1 ted
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING Lt-
I BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma- For
Iry valuable additions having been made to t is wr j t [ C
collection, it confifisnow of about Ijoo i o ™™"''
the bell adapted to answer the purpufc ol thole (
' 1 who wish both to improve in the Language, anil • j
I obtain ufeful inftruflion and plcafmre. j
march 30. oawim —I
A House and Lot in Burlington. 1
• j FOR SdLE t
1 A LARGE commodious two story brick House,
I A and large well improved Gulden ; with a A»y 1
large Clover 1 ot, a ftabie, a Carriage House, and (o
' Spring House, &c. in the City of Burlirgton, Any
1 New-Jersey- ce f
J This property is allowed to be the molt healthy Any <
j and beautiful of any in Burlirgton, having a front Any
of 360 feet upon the river, arid extending zoB feet the
back; bounded on one fidejby Broad-street, and on v j<i
1 the back by a wide alley. dr«
TBe house is in form of a square, fr.-nting 54 ab(
1 feet upon Broad-street. and j8 upon the river,— (U(
'' with a pump of water at the back door besides he
two fine spring, riling out of the beautiful bank
Y 1 between the garden and the river. , ,
I F«r particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth-
GEO. WALKER.
Who has also For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
I march 3 1, A "V
JUST RECEIVED. fu '
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second i
I and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street n{
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-llreet and the
I Booksellers generally, u s
I (Price 5 Bth« of a Dollar.) jf
Z B.EACON HILL, if
ng A Local Pottni historic and descriptive !
ge Bj a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF « 0.0 K I.
AlluGon to the furroundinii ProfpeiS— Invocation
j to the Riv-r apd sylvan Deities—to the tiiftoric jj
Mufe—FiSiun discarded—Dedication to Wafb- j (
mgton—The A&ion c pens at the Retreat of the , j
I Columbians from Bunker's Hill—GeneralHowe
I —The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
— I rcn—Perfanification of Fortune and Fame— ]
eft Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the 11
ell I chief Command—Formation of the Columbian a
ns. Camp st Cambri ge—Natural, moral, or poli- v
tical Hiltory of the fcveral States—Their com
■aar.diug Ofliccrs—Siege ef Bofton—lts Suffer- |
1 ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure —Appointment of
Congreft—Declaration of Independence —Cha-
I raiftcr of the Columbian Soldies—The Port's
I prophetic ApoProphe to the Progress of Free- An
r , 1 dpm throughout the World. An
march 30. 5 r
* n . ~JUST PUBLISHED, A[ ?
AJJD FOR SALE AT THIS OFF.LCS# j
(JPrice 25 Cents)
Reflexions on Monroe's View i
Of. TUB CONDUCT Of TBS EXSCUTirE,
As jMihlifhed ia the
GAZETTE of rtie UNITED STATES,
I Under the signature of »„
scipio, A :
I In which the Commercial Warfare of France it traced
to the French Faction in this Country, at iti Saurcc, Ar
eft* I nmJ fh* Afativet oj Clfxpcfstinn, l&c.
I march 3 0. '
ka " Ten Dollars Reward.
\ BSCONDED from the fubferiber, an indent-
I jtx cd Boy. named Whliam Aston, about 19 Q f
I yesrs of ag», J feet 6 or 7 inches high, tlout made,
Up I thick (hort hair, speaks remarkably faft Had on th;
| when he went away, a (hort corduroy Jacket and
un I trowfers, and round hat. All persons are catition
|cd not to credit him on my account, asl am deter- m
I mined not to pay any debt of his contracting— m
and all persons are desired not to harbor or em- p.
ploy him, as they will be prosecuted to the utmoO ta
rigor of the law. Matters of veflels and others 0I
are desired not to take him away at their peril
Any person apprehending the said runaway, and
lodging him in Jail, so that his mailer may get
him again, lhall receive the above reward, and all
reafo*abl« charges, by appWn. to
JOHN HARPER,
167 Arch, or 31 South Third street.
marth 30. 3t
Ft e 111 1 eas. i
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton, t
And For Sale, Sy .
SAMUEL HOWELL, 1
At his Coupling House, No. 54, Chainut-ftreet,
AND BT
fcCo. SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Conpting House, Crooked billet wharf,
?• Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
Hyfon, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
' China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattius, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden (
and common Fans, fattin and lutellting Umbrellas,
whale-bom; sticks.
a, and They have also For Sale,
terms Ell wide Persians. Bandanna Handkerchi.fr,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. ' §
ee '* Neiu-York, yanuary 14, 1798
Su s" PROPOSALS
f*" 10 ' By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
:o cook An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
» °ne By Madame Roland ;
eedap- Wife of the Miniller of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
enewal ot 400 pages each.
lof the They will be printed on fine paper and a new
nibfcri- type, and delivered to SubfcnV-ers, neatly bound
he fame an j lettered, « I dollar and jo cents per vol
ume—one third of the Sublcrip; ion money
" paid on delivery of the firft yolume—the re
» mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Frinters, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
'• be made.
0" Subscriptions are taken it the Keading
and for Room, No. 149, Water street —the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
thcr, Bookstores in New-York- Also, by William
-tlrec t. Young, corner cf Second and Chefnut ftreet,-nd
" the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
IP, As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
venient are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
Enquire compleated with the utnioft difpatcli.
W3W Feb. 10. eodtra
, treasury department,
MARCH I, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' IN ourfiunce of the A£t of Cengrcf. paCed on the fxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
' nir.etv-feven entitled "An Ad laying duties on "tamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
aA paired on the fifteenth day of December, ene thoufan Vfe«en huudred and ninety-seven, entitled
l ' •' An AA o postpone for a limited time the commetctment of the duties imposed by the A<St enti
* tied "An Ail laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout tne United Staus.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon Which (hall be
is written or Dr mted any or either of the instrument* or writings! olio wing—to wit:
•, r Dls Cts. J Mis
a Any Certificate of Naturalization, - • - - - j
Any Licence to pra&ice.or Certificate of the idmiflion,enrolment or registry of
anv Cotinfellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prod or, in any Court of the
United States, ... . - to
t. Provided* thirt a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for <"le of ifoe'faid Offices, (hall lo far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforeiiid, be a fufficient admilfiin in all the Court* of the United
fe, States, for each and every of the said < fficqs.
a' Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
nd ( except for lands granted tor military services) - - 4
,n, A ny exemplification ar certified copy of any fui h grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands grantediot military fervtcen) - »
*7 Any Charter-Party, Botti mry, or Refpondentii Bond, • - 1
nt Any Receipt or difeharge for or on accountot any Legacy left by any Will or 9.
:ct ther teftsmentary instrument, or for any (hate or part of a pe. for.al ellate di
on vided by force otany statute of diftrfbuti.ns. other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount wheieoffhall be
54 above the value of Fifty Dollars,.and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
le.3 When the.amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - " 5°
, And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional Turn of t
Amy Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
eoods insured from one diftridl to Another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five husdred dollars, - *5
Whin the sum insured (hall ex eed five hundred dollar*, • I
Ai>v Exemplificition, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal l os any
Court, other than such as it may b# the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fumifh far the use of the United States or some particular (fate, - 50
md Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promilP'ry
ett note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
the tion or contraifl, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefpe&ively, - - * * "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, IJ
If above five hundred'Aollars and nor exceeding one tho"fand dollars, 50
And if above one thouland dollars, • - - - 75
Pvvided, bonds cr notes (hail be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjea to only two fifth parts of the duty
tlo ; n arorefaid—viz. - "
uric If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
aft " If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred ioll.ll a, I i 0
the 'lf above fiv« hundred dollar* and n<# exceeding one thouiand. dol ar*, J to
owe above one thousand dollars, - - ~ " 3©
Anv Notes issued bv the banks now eflablilh>ed, or that may herealter be efiab
"T lifted within the United States, other than the no.o. of iuch of the said Banks
, - as jhjU agree t an annual compofirion, of one per centum on the annual di
>ol£ vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpetfively, according to
om - the following scale. - - * * "
ffer- On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
the On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
nt of <~n all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
:ha- dollars, - " " '
o«*'s * On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 4
r ree- Any Protest or other Notarial a<£f, - - * ,
Any Lettei of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain or fell War
-5 rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for snihury services .
performed in the late war, - " . " *5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for lels than
five hundred dollars, - - - " * 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, «
eW For more than two thousand dollars, - 3
Any note or bill of lading for grids or merchandize to he exported,
' If from one diftriA to another diftriiSf of the United State*, not being ia the
a fame State, - - - " ro
s ' If from the United States to any foreign port or pl«e, - - »5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effe&s, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
Uuccd rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) jo
W«, Any Certificate of a Sh»i e. in any Insurance Company, of a (Hare in t«e Bai.k of
the United Staies, or of.aoy State or otner Bar k,
- IP ,
If above one hundred dollars, ... 3^
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollars.
1 "•
dent- The duties aforelaid will beeolle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpe&nrs ajirl ether Officer*
,lit of (iifpeflion, in the several Di!lrict<, Survey* and Divisions of the United States, and by such otber
nade > pcrfons as {hall from t» time be specially app»intea and employed by th? Supervisors of Diilrids for
°" that purpose.
t and r r 111.
ition- The of the several Diftri(9s will, prior to tl e firft day of July ensuing, and a* soon a*
ieter-
ing— ment or Paper, withony of the rates of duties btf- re enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ;Qr
r em " (lamped vellum, parchment and paper ;>.a-. at the option of the Citizens of the United Srates, be ob
itmoft tained at the rates prescribed by law. by application to any Suvcrvilor, Infpeflor, Officer of Infpedien,
others or ot j, cr p«r£on appointed for the diltributioa of Stamps, by 'he Supervisors of Diftrids
:r il G/PJ?K ynJer my Haud, at Philadelphia
f"« and the day and Vrar ■ibovementitned.
y get , OLIVER WOLCOTT,
ln a March 10. Secretary of the Trea/ury,
NOTICE.
ALL pei-foiis who have any demands against '
ths estate of Willam Fvretwqod, of
Liverpool, lite of Philadelphia, merchant, de '
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts, ;
properly attefled ; and thole who are indebted *
to the fame, are desired to make immediate i (
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, J .. i
No. is, So. Thrrd-ftrert. \ r ,
January 4. dtf
Just Published, 1
And to be had at the BooU-flores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Yohno and Ormrod,
in Philadalphb,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
I Fevers.
To wlicb it
AN ABSTRACT of the op nions and practice of
' different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefling fads and rafleftions relative to
the Synocbui Icitroidu, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftrcfa and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, •
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Fhylicians,
and Member of the American Philoiophical So
ciety. Feb. i—*3m§
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
y1 valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-faft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth Areets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is ftfty-one feet front
v on Walnut street, ind one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street t there are at
present two small two ftory-lwiek houl'M, and a
number of fro ail tenements thereon.
■Also, far Sale,
Two three story Brick. Houses
o With convenient ftnres, wharf, &e. G'uiteon
II Water street, between Mulberry and Saflafraf
Street-, containing in front on Water street sis
: ty L four feet, and containing that breadth eaft
t- ward mnety-five feet, then widening to the
it Couth thirteen feet fix inches. Theft houses
ti have the convenience of a publ c alley adj. in
d i;;g on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
6, uation sot a a merchant, flour fiflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods,
rs This property will be foM on very reasonable
id terms for caih. Eor further information apply !
t« the printer.
July jl. Mlwtf
Salisbury Estate.
I~*HE Subfcribet, proposing to contrafi hit bufv
cefs, offers this Elhte lor (ale, on moderate
terras. On it are one Blift and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ft ones ; also a good Forge, all
[ in pcrfeft repair,asate allthe Water Works connefi
■ I cd with thtfe various branches. The Air Furnaces
I were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thoufaad acres
of l.and, oneh<tlf of which is under wood, theothar
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Failure. Th« Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in ihe world ; for not oiie of fixty-nicc £ tills
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored
into 32 pounders have fail«d on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for. this brauch of
9 manufafiurt, asd a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land»
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
j. tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
ajid which may be converted into a variety of other
' ufeful purpoles. The purchafcr can be accommodat
-1 ed wiih all theftnek. and utensils, and havt poffeflion
> onar before the fitft of June next, and preparation
t may be madein the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
( term,, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phiaj David Brooks, Esq. one of the R-prefent«t-ive»
in Congress for this Stale ; Mr, David Waterman, op
thepremifes, or tothepropi'etorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t. 3 awtf
A 0 T I C E.
A M<wufnß»ry of yellow and delft -ware,
Such as never waj in this Country bcfqie* has been
been latelv ere&ed at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
n onihe East Bank of Hudson's River, ftee of New}
it York, wkeie any article of vatious forts arid. (hape*
a m«y be exceuied, as wet! as earthewi stoves up©n n
new cor»Aru6lio», that saves tlr. ee fourths ©f the fuel
commonly used in cart iron Aoves or open chymnies;
they are besides very whoiefome and ornamental, by
applying :o
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fltillful band to attend to the baking anil
glazing part of the laid ware. Generous appoint,
fc- menti will be given. Aoply asab *p. or to
><■ DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
es No. 71 South sth Street,
m- Feb. 19. eod^w
rs Wanted, to Hire,
' B * \ l arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
»'e LjL the centre of th« city—for which a generoaa
ily rent will begiven; to be tafcen tor a year, or on
more for a longer Mrc> laq'.iireaf thi Printer,
Oft. 17. aetf