■
- • , • • • • , • .. ' « * ■ • - , - -«
tue ™ Philadelphia
' W John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
Number i738. j
For Savannah, C
(To fall on Saturday the 'Jth of April)
the ship
~ SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbin, Matter. >-
regular established Packet with t<
I elegant accompiodat!on> — c ,
fraipli- or passage apply to the Msfler j>n board at j
Rofs 'a wharf, or to
AT. & J. Fr artier,
No. 93, South Front Street. t
W sale a quantity of prime new Rice a
by f (id veffcl. a
' FOk SALE.
Sugar
SCIO Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing* and Fran- J
•ci i's wharf, from on board the brig Ailive, Will
iam Williams, mailer.
«... ately after discharged.
/if ply to
feku Hollingfworth Co.
mferch 30. §
This Day will be Landed,
At f.torris'j wharf, jufl above the Drawbridge,
fro 11 on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
Srf ti Malaga—
li'relh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chelts and half chefta i
Raiiins of th« Sun in kegs
Fitjs in do. / I
Soft Iheird Almonds in fack|
Ornpes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Mufcatelßaifins in boxes
Anchovies in keg»
Jor iin arid Bitter Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER. KUHN.
P. s.
s The above Brig for sale
,J« in> me dlately applied for ; (be
' s a remarkable fine faft failing
having made her paflagc
to and frora Malaga in little more than 60 days,
march 16. to l
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,'
-The Hamburgh Brig
K A HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Wain's wharf— A
flout, flrong vessel, of about 270 tons bur
then, ip good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
Fof freight only, apply to
PRATT fc? KINTZING,
• . No. 95, North Watei-ftrect.
Whota-oc JUST RECEIVED, am! FOti SALE,
ift-bale* Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
& do. Vatterbornes
I do. bkached HefGans
I package Oil Cloth
I eheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
39 anchors pearl Baryle, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
—-THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cafei. Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallboxes. Rice, Brimstone. Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, jHeffians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
C<ii;e Bags, &c See. all entitled to the drawback.
Bfrch to. tuthsiw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
DoMimcK Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
\ sf; Having great partof her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
jeffe C 5" Robert Wain.
Fd lruary 26
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATI FOR SALS,
58 hhjs. of Jamaica Rum
Madeiira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
"Old For* do. in hhri*. " .
Tm;»ei:ial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f chelts
Saill (ranvafs, N». I,M
Di fxities, Ginghams, and in packa
j-es suitable for Weft-India market
itfa'iSs assorted
Blac'k quart bottles
Queehs ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ; •
An/1 at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, e.xpedled round
as'foijn as the navigltioH is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
•Coftls '
Span! lh Brown 1
"ITeiX'tian Red j
purple Brown L PA iNTS
latent White
Lead
Tied i jead _ J
-Cokoth:»r vitriol
160 bun-Jles Sheathing p:»per
Seajnlng- Twine
Ship Diana,
:Y:p for Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
» Erig Amazon.
"nj B. Tbefate firm ot'Philifi Nicklin & Co.
is no}v changed to
NICKLIN U? GRIFFITH.
J.pnuary 1.
j'or Sale or Charter,
3T!iVI 7hi'Snow
(1 TX a HOPE
f Will carry abo'Bt 1100 barrels, and
T isready totake in a cargo. For terms
app'y to „ r
Pragrrs cs Co.
No. iff, Soi.tH Second-flreet.
'fVTin have for fale—prirr t St. Croix Sugar
and Rum. Madera, Lifcon,j|»d Tenenffe wtn».
jtoreniber 7.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 5, 1798-
On Tuesday, the ioth day of
April next, at 7 o'cleck in the evening, ft
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be expofcd to public file, Seventeen * s
trails or parcels of l*nd titrated in Point
townfhipin the county of*Northii-'fland, and 0 )
con**ining in the whale si * tViov > •» Wl- B
dred and sixty-sour acres and three quarters, ci.
with the usual allowance for roads. j"
Terms of file, 1-3 of*he purchase mwiev on
the execution of the deed, 1-3 in three totonths,
and r-3 in fix months, in good uctes or other
approved fecarity. u
CONNELLY'd Co. A»a. p
MarcH 9. lawtn dtlca f'
For Sale, u
By Elliston b' John Perot, "
No- 4t, North IVatcr Street, 1
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and v
quarter calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibai CofTes y
Bandanna Handkerchiefs 2
1 Sail Canvais, No. 1, to 9 (
A few bags ot Juniper Berries f
A parcel of Soal Leather, aud (
A few boxes of China. c
march 3 tu3cf4y L
IMPORTKD, \{
In the Brig Benj4min Fr an k l IN, from , ,
Bouideaux, J
FOR SAL* BY THE SUBSCRIBER , (
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks (
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boxes andjbafkets
Lunelle > i
Sauterne ( wines ill Cases.
Ivl acarty, and (
Medoc J
Thomas As«» 0 stray J, i
No. It, Walnut Street. i
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdiaux Brandy in pipes ~) lntit'ed
«■»»5 :
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter caiks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 40®o bulhels L iverpoolSalt.
march mw&ftf
"Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, fonne»)y. the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafias Ri
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, aijd confifi of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
1 them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, k requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhety. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings pn a navi
gable river but a lbort fail'from Ec.lti.ndrc. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
, the 'pi emifus; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The'foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will ba Told together, or divided into
' fcr.aller farms (for which the buildihgs are convcn
- iently situated) as. may suit the purc'nafer. The
- Stock on said Farm, confiding of Horses, Cattle,
/ Sheep, &c. will also b; disposed of. For further
• particulars apply to Geosoe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 14 aaw6w
Kfcapes.
C—
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
and made their escape, between
I and a o'clock, this morning, two Men, who
were convi&cd of stealing—one of them calls him
felf Jafnes Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
Leggis a grey-headed Man. about ?oyears old, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head; Hambleton is about 26 years old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the above described
thieves, a small man, who calls himfelf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 feet 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will secure
.the thieves in any Gaol in New-Terfey or Pennsyl
vania, ihall b? entitled to receive Ten Dollars lor
l " the old one, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon,
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march 15. 24 —mt&fjw
Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-flreet.
d '
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors fliewn liim in his
efforts to eftabliih a Store for the sale of Law
Books only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his coUe«ftioti now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the poflefiien of any one person for faJc in Ameri
ca, he expe&s'daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly irom the latter place,
having chiefly confined his importations to thoie Vi
rions, as being in his opinion equally correal with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Books, it will appear obvious to profeflVonal gen
tlemen the great advastages they havem purchasing
from him, both as to fele&ion and pric«, of which
the encouragement !".e has received for feveralyeirs
past, ifc the bell testimony he can offer.
irarch 20. 3*w3w
"• AT LAST.
This Day i» Ptiblifhed, by William
Cob B ETT,
OPPOSITE CHRIST CHURCH,
Ihe Democratic 'Judge,
j OR THE
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS,
As exhibited, explained and exp<*fed, in the
prosecution of
1 WILLIAM COBB ETT,
FOR A FRETENDED I.IBIL AOATNST
The Ki'sg of Spain and his Emhjfador, before
lr ' ° THOMAS .Vi'KEAN,
Chiaf of the State of PtpjjfyU'ania.
By Peter Porcxfij.'.
': • .» ?r<«t"
FORGERIES.
WHERE A c fevcrt! have been commit
ted in this crty and New r York and ether plac
es by 3or 4 mtu» e are now confined in New-York 2
goal tor life, one of them by nime Dr. Graft?, siins
§mitH White ; another by name & Gilbert, alias b ,
Lewis i forged a bill of exchange on Nicholas Cook
ot" New-Y*Trk with a letter advice trom Meffre. -
Brown. Benfo:) Wpt of »iso forq
fid 3 cftecVsin the name of N»chol3» ook,sKo 2 checks
in the azmc of Joha ftttbbone —Vf'tllT3rn?!rrant is a
bout 24 yearsold, light complexion, longravorcd, his 5
countenance by no mesos exprertivc, but rather filly j.
or linmeaoing; breathes uncommonly HiW, and fre- j
queutly heaves a sigh, rathei thin built f iboder c<>nUi-
tuti'on.has a hacking cojgh.corilutnpti'.c loa'f» wore a
green cloth coat in July'96,has a in. one or both '
lront t<*th, lived some time clerk wiih Nicholas
in New-York—Gilbert, alias Lewis it rather fat or ?
lusty, has a over one of his eyes, Grant & Gilbert e
in June 1796 forged lettars of recommendation and
credit to this city,from J. Rathbonc,Nicholas Cook, g
Hoyt Sc Tore, Fell 6c Mellick, John Rathbone's was t
well executed, Grant boarded at Mr. Grimes' Tavarn f
the George, corner of Mulberry and Second-street ;
Gilbert in 7th street, and kept a one horse chaise.
Grant slept ina room with Mr. Robert Bicknell, and j
broke open his bureau, while Mr. B. wasar Bair imort-, *
and ftoie a biil of exchange for 120 dollars, from the (
signature he forced 2 drafts on the*Pennfylvania bank,
daicd 6 July 'g6 t bnc for lour hundred and forty-two
dollars, and gave it to Mr. Wilcox's black, boy to re- c
edve, the Bank being shut the'boy was taken intocuf- '*
tody bv Mciher a constable, the draft lays at the May- t
! or'i office ; the other draft for 2dollars was paid
t by the Rank soon in the morning of the 7th July— on
i the gtk% Saturday afternoon, he received through the
hands of MeflV*. Debauffre and Goodwin a draft of
William PrieftmanV, dated Bih July on the United
States Bank for 100 dollars. Being too late to receive
it that night, he forged another from the figna ure on
the United States Bank for 44C dollais dated 10th
July, Sunday, which was paid wn Monday morning,
eaOy. 431b 01 14t.11 July heappiaitd in a new diet# 1
new boots. See. removed to a in&te retired lodg
ing, at Mrs. Smith's between Aix;h and Kace-ftreets,
3 daysaurr, he set nut for Virgmt* ipi but upon
\he road he slept ;rt a room with a gentleman and
robbed his fadd'e bat oV some watches for which he
was r entenced at Baltimore to the wheel bfcirow, but
lately rcleafed, having very good friends in Conncfti
cutt Any person who can prove his writing upon
conviction of the offender, shall receive 100 dollars re
ward, as the United States Bank have relufed to pay
the money, apply to William Prieitman, No. 1,5 south
sth-ftreet Philadelphia.
In a few days the 3 checks evidently wrote by the
fame Grant, 2 gentlemen having fwornto his writing,
will be left at the Mayor's offxee for infpe&ion.
April 2. 6t.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798-
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
nPHA'rpropolals will be received at the Office of
JL the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the I,th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all Rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firth day of
, Oflober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
■ 1799, both days inclusive, at tne placqs and within
1 the diftriit hereafter mentioned, viz. AtOfwego;
at Niagara ; at Frefque lfie ; at Michilimackinac ;
F at Fort Franklin ;at Pittftiurgh ;at Le Beuf; at
l Cincinnati; at Greenville ;at Picque Town and
r Loramie's Store ;at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
, ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
s ami River to Lake Erie ;at Fort Knox and Oua
-1 tanon on the River Wabalh ; at MalTac; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Missis
■ fippi aSdvftlM Rlbttll OF the River XJhio, andnp
-1 on tbe Illinois River ; at any place or places On the
f east fide of the Miflifiippi River below the mouth
- of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
0 State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat« ; at
- Knoxvillc, Teliico Blo'ck House, and at all other
e Polls jn the State of I'enneflec", at anyplace or
places on the call fide of the River Miißffippi, be
r low the southern boundary of the St?te of I'ennef
e fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies shall be required sot any )>ofts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupjilies
shall be furnilhed at prices proportioned to those to
the pods before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied to coufitt of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
n One pound of bread or floHr
n One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
0 or bacon
Half a jill oi rum, brandy or whif-~\
" ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( h ,^ dr , d
5 of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rations
e one pound of candles )
$ The rations are to be furnilhed in fnch quantities,
e as that there ihall at all times during the said term,
be fufiicicnt for the consumption of the troops at
v Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, aud Ofwego %
)>! for t(?e term of fix months in advance, and at eack
15 of the other posts, for the term of ar leall three
c months in advance, in good and wholesome proyi
fions, if the fame ifia.ll be required. It is t»be un
r derftood, that the contrador is to be at the ex
pence and rilk of issuing the supplies to the troops
at each post, and that all losses fnftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, ihall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of twoormore persons of credita
ble characters, acd the certificate of a coramiffiop
es officer, ascertaining the circuraftances of the
loss an 4 the amount of the articles fer which com
pensation (hall be claimed,
is Ihe priviledge 'is reserved to the United States j
w of requiring that none of the supplies wliich may
n be furnilhed under the proposed contraA, Ciall be
s issued, until the supplies whieh have or may be
j furnilhed under the conttacl now in force have
n been consumed.
i- OLIVER WOLCOTT,
1- Secretary of the Treasury.
e. march 27. Jawtls Jy
h 1 FOR SALE, "
e- \LL that elegant three story Brick House, brick
il Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
w south weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
j. containing in front on Fourth street 3} feet, and
ig in length on Prune street 98 ieet, to a four feet al
ii ley intended to be left open with common privi
rs lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the well fide <=f Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and is depth 9ft feet on the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
M the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of street and adjoining the last
described lor, containing in breadth on FouVth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide xoi feet, thence running southward 11 feet 6
» inches, thence farther westward II feet, thence
le Oi'il further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common use of the said four feet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purchalVr.
re For terms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of
fice, No, 114 South Foarth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march 31. 3awtf
To he Lct %
{And poffeJTion given on the tft of May) r~
A genteel three story brick House, -
12, f«t front,
and dibits, at preftnt in the tenure of Mijor J *cx
soto. Enquire at iB7 Southlhird street.
aKiil I. . .. §
tojbe t0
' P'WO haudfor;:?. new stoe-Tlory brtck Dwell-
JL ing Hovfes, ten rooms m eacb ; a
Stable, large enough lo contain thirty h*rfes aad *
large Coa-.li House ; aJTconifktely finilhed, I'here
iv a CQnvcnii j nr y;ird with a pump iu it, forthcac
commodation p' the builAigs. Any person
inclining to purchase, by applying at the building
Wo and 48 North Sixth tirect, may view tjhe-.r., pi
and be informed of the terms, which will bemade 01
easy if required.
N. B. The houses will "be fold foparately or to- "
gether, as ijj,' may bell suit the purch»f*r ; one of ui
the houses is well calculated for a tavern or priv te Vl
family. "eoi* -• a
Joseph R'icardo, f r
OF this City, Merehrot, has alligned his pro- ci
perty for cue beßcGt oi lii* Creditors, t®
C. Fifhcr, Stunuel W. KHher, and Thomas Wllfon.
All perlpns who hate demaixis are re
quested to furiiilh their acc«utits without delay—
and those indited to make immediate pajment to
the Sutfcribers, a&iiig Assignees. »
fames C. tf Samuel W. Filler.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4'awtf
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, situate on the east fide
/y I»f the main'ftreet, running throegh the town
of Dover, iu li«Jt county, in ths S:ats of Dela
ware, about thirty or for.y yards oejflw Captain
Furbec's Tavern;' containmg in fronton said llreet
thirty four feet, and extending in-depth east ward
twelve perches, together with the buildings there,
011 which sonfift of a pood brick house,
tWO stories high, woll finilhed, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen fiet square each, and a
passage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and good gar- '
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which isuled
as a kitchep; a back brick building with two rooms
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the tipper rooms of this building communi
cate above stairs with the passage of the house :
A brick smoke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpeit as comfortable as
any ii? Dever, 'is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, Bear Dover, or to the fub
feriber, No-60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 17. tus4W
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an infol
veiit debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the ftite of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
' for the said county, praying that they woiild
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl his liberation, pursuant to an atsl of the
LegifWture of this State,entitle "an a& lor
the relief of insolvent debtors," passed the 26th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
. did appoiht Monday the 26th ihy of Marrh
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
. Cburt House in the Middle Precindl, at eleven
■ o'clock, in (he forenoon of the said day, of which
. his creditors are requefttd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —iawsw
> N~O Y I C E.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtrd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Splnfter, or her ailigns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the djferred (lock of
1 the United States, was loft in the (hip Pcgpy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year The fubferiber, the said Han
( nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
I Feb-23. law6w.
1 To be Let,
e A three story brick House,
" With Stables, and a Garden containing nearly one
acre of choice ground, several Summer Houses,
' Fruit Trees, &c. on Race, and secOnd street from
s Schuylkill ; th« whole in good condition, and the
situation high, airy and excellent lor a place of
e public en ertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and ilo deep,
1 is also to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at No. 30,
" Pine street.
e Wm. currie.
march 21. w6t^
* Bafkenridge—for sale
TT consists of 920 acres, almost all jpf which is
e la fine rich Meadow, (tbe residence of the late
Er.rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Ealt by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of building;, forming
a square of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and a small expence would
k put it in complete repair.
The orchard coniifis of 1500 finebearing engraf
e ed Apple Trees—and there is on oth«f pirts of said
j trad near 300 other Apple Frees—as also a great
I variety «f other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
, Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and eonveni
, ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
l" from the towns of Newr.rk and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and M. from Springfield—lt
r is wooded and watered. , ,
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in caih, on delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to *n
n quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
I No. 78, Chefnut ' trees.
/ February 2. eodtt
6 Red Clover S6ed of the belt quality.
e MADEIRA IV!NE,
r - Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
e pipes and Quarter calks.
'~ r TenerifFe Wine,
And, Window Glaf —all of which will be fold
f. on v.-i) Veafcnable tettr.s, by
John Craig,
'No. IV, Dock Strett.
march I wScstf
. •• r-T, } v jy, ffjpi'i 1
Notice.
nrmr. Partnerfhip'ofthefubfcrilKrs, tradin-un-
X dcr che firm of VAXSON £3* F.ICHARQ
SON, was dissolved on thp sixth of the :hird mouth
last, by mutu.k consent. All peffons indebted
thereto r.re earncftly requested tonaake payirent.;
and tkc/ f that have any cemapd* against the fame,
are desired to prefect their fettlement
to either of th*iubfcr)l>w»-
/facte Pax/on,
Natbaaicl Rtchardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. J<l, 1798.
ISAAC~PAXSOK,
Continues to carry on the buiinef9 at the ufu ii
place, No. 10, South Third ftj-eet, where he has
on hand a large affortmeut of Irono^on^eryi&d
dlery, Cytlery and Brass Wares, which he wilfoll
wholesale or retail, on low terms, for Cnlh or the
usual credit. He expe&s to receive by the firft
vessels from London, Brirftol, Liverpool and Hull,
a large addition to' his present aflortment ;asd
will tytccute with punctuality and care any orders
from che former cuftomcrii, ar.d hitff lends i'i
cral. *aw4w
Twenty Dollars Reward.
r Store occupied on acceunt of
X. States, back of No. 71, North Water-ltreet
wis on thenie,ht of the 19th milant (March) bro
ken open, and the following article* floleQ, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2 37+ 20 4 yds- gj ue ftroud fmgle
2 3? d 20 i cord.
2379 20 '
2380 20^
2381 20 \
2 3 82 20 Two cord.
2384 20 ] • •
2385 10 1 j
Tt*e above reward is offered, for the difcc. *ry
of the perpetrators of this robbery,.fo that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to jutlice 5
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods llolen, od delivery ol the
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april 2. I w
Israel Morris
against | Maryland.
Thomas Margatroyd, James Bell, j In Chancery,
Marfkall and'Heujamin Smith, f March 8,
Executoraof Samuel Tucker, j 1798-
dereafed. J
THE ®bjedl of the bill, is for the Complain
pant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a Hond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 178*, to the said Samu
el Tucker, fpr the sum of £.200 principal.—
The relief is praytd on the ground, that the
Complainant afligned, by W3y of security ior
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, for the i'um
of jr. 350 that the said Tucker received of th«
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
ium of >£.io© a "d negle<sled to take fleps for
obtaining the residue, until the f3id Downing
became insolvent.
The biH slates that all the defendants are
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, thai he
caui'e a copy of this order to be inserted, three
wet-ks fucceflivdy, in some newspaper of Phila
' delphia, in or near which t«c defendants reside,.
at any time btfore the firli day of May next,
1 or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have nottee of the complainants application to
this court-anifTif the fubftancc and oV.je<sl of his
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third Tsefday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree lhould not pais
. as prayed,
t Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Cm,
f april 3 co.;w
' For Sal?,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
[ Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, rnd about five grilles from the city ;
the whole being under good fence, and in ex
- cellent order as pafiuie ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elmqtt Cresson, at his Office for the
sale of Re.il-Eflates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
e High-ftreeti
[j 4th mo. 3d. tu&f nt
c City Commiffioiler's Office,
1 January litb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THf CITIZENS.
' following arrangement is made by the
| X said coinmifiiJilers, for clean ling the
' streets, "«c.
Diftrifk No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
ftreet,to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry flreet, to
the south fide of CVefriut ftrreet, to be under the
fupermtendance of William Moulder.
ls 3. From thefouth fide of Chefnut flreet to
the n«rth fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoo'e.
,e 4. From the r.orth fide of Spruce flreet, to the
south fide of Cedar flreet, to be 1 under the fur
£ perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
J Fj' When pumps are out of order south of
High-fircet, please Thomas Dixcy, at the
r" comer of South and Fifth-flrscts, or Godfrey Octi
j ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
lt High-street, to Dixey tind Dehavrn, in Saflafra»-
le street, between Sixth and S^venth-flreets.
House and Lots, in Bvrdenlonm.
, c ' r T~''o BE SOLD, a handfometwoftory House,
X with the Lot on which i' is crcfled, lituat
-8 ed about the middle of the beautiful and hwlthy
lj Village of Rsrdenfown. The houlV is forty
two fret in front, and in neat ortjtfr. The lot
e contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the'main ftrett, ar.j extends with the fame ,
breadth to back flreet. Also, a large Lot, ton
t. taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. Onethird only of th«
~ purchase money will be required upon execut
' ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II be givct, as the purchiftr may chufe. Tlus
property will be fold free of all incumbrance*,
and an indisputable title j'iven.
For further particulars enquir* either of Dr.
d W.Miam Rurr,fs,refiding'in Bordentown, near
the premises, ulio will ftie\r the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Cnnvey-iiicer, No 43, Muibcrry-fireet.
Decesnber 2. 3awtf
{Volume XIII.Muslins at" Auction.
On SATURDAY MORNING, the itt inft. at ti
o'clock, at FOOTMAN (5* Co's Audio* store,
WILL BE HOLD,
15 bales of Eafl India Muslins,
By the b lc, tor approved endorsed notes at 60
and 90 da»»—confiding of
Baftas
Coffaes
Guzzenas
Handkerchiefs, Ice.
The wholo entitled to drawback.
FOOTMAN (3* Co. At,a'rs.
april 4 3t
The friends of American Seamen,
Impre/fed on board Britifil (hip-, ot war, who
are desirous of cflefling their reUafe. are request
ed to furnifti proof of their citizenlhip and of
the description of their ptrfons to the Depart
ment of State, whence it will be forwarded tr
the Public Agents in Great Britain and the Welt
Indie..
Department of State. ">
Philadelphia, a April, 1798 J 4 —lt
The Owners of 5982 Dollars
Captured in the fchoonrr i.ovely Lady of New
York, captain Edward Johnfron, by the Frencr
privateer Revanche, captain Antoine Herard, 01
the.ijtho latt July, are requested to make imme
diate application, to tne Department ol State re
fpeilinj; the lame.
Department of State, "}
Philadelphia, .'.prila, 1798. J
Manchester Go ds.
Received by the latest arrivals fforti Liverpool, fe
deral trunks, suitable for the prfenc and ap
proaching season which will' e fold very
low or cart) or on a (hort credit, vb.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
fancy '*'aiftc>at : ng in Mars £ce.
Cotton and silk and cotton Hofi ry, Pantaloon*.
&c.
A variety of (Fnglifti) Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding:,.&•».
N. B. A cjlftrof: printed Muflivets, unci a trunk
of Puliicat BangaW*: Handkerchiefs entitlei to
drawback, and very fnitahle for the Wefl-Indie*
Appiy No. 35 iout'h Water and corner of Cfcef
nut ftrcet. 4 mo. 4—Siw •
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a red weed prire— For
K-br JAMES YARD.
April 4- d2w
Jtift Received,
AND for sale bv
ISAAC HARVEY, JUN.
(No. J, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Anx-Cayes Molafles
-Railing in kegs
Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons of -Nicaragua wood.
4th mo ath
ROSS fcf SIMSON,
H AV- FOP. SALF,
A small invoice of bed Triage
COFFEE, ni barrels and bags
at-2 bales superior Madrafr Hue Cloths
Caro'.ina-Indipo.firft quality
A few bale? Haftas, Cofias, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and } RUM
Bengal J
April 4» " 'f'
Just Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Ifie of prance,
And for lale By
Joseph Anthony fit Co.
110 bales Bourbnn cotton of a superior quality
350 bags do. enftee
34 calks do. Indigo
april 3 - <^>ot
FOR SALE,
At Vo. 149, South J?r..nt-flreet,
Malaga Vtjne.ip hh*cls. and qr.
c Iks
Mountain do. in qr. calks
Celemenar do. in do
A few kegs freth Railins
. . ———- —; r yr;nJ-so. r ■ ,
A few packages of Calcutta Goods—
Confiding of
, Humhums
Tickery
Pa'n.i h!itz , ,
Pctjfib Ack and coloured
Banuapnai, fhojjpa Ronials, Barhar and
Pulli. at Handkerchirfs
april a > *.?t
The Spijcribers have For Sale,
The following GOOD j, viz.
Red ar4 blue Bernagpre Handkerchiefs
Santipore do.
Sutromal do.
Boreas."}
Codiduh ( MUSL | NS
Chacon f
Book J
• Hum mums
Coarse flriped cotton Cloths
Black and other coloured Indian Taffities
Do. do. <■ hinefe dp.
Black and whits Chinese Sattins
Blue and white do. Luted, ings
Heavy black Pepper
lfinglafs
Cordage assorted
Old Madeira Wine
Port do-
Sherry do. in quarter calks
Claret in cases
Holland Gin in pipes
English Perry
An iron Book Cafe
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
march y- _IL
6' ALI r El RE.
One hundred kegs oT refined Salt P etre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. iff, Samuel IV. Fifher t
No. 13, Arch Street
march 3 « * tawtf
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Baok Store,
No. 5», Seeond flreet, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Rcprefentatives of the United State 6, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the HouXs Rcprefentatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congref*, and
inftiuSing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means,"todifcovcr ths whole nature and cxt.nt
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
•' Hands impeached, and who are the parties and
11 affociatcs therein."
Printed by order of the House ofKefrefentaUs.es
December a©. i
,Xije ©a^fttc.
I .
PHILADELPHIA,
I THURSDAY EVENING, April y.
For the Gazette of Mir United States.
WHILE round our brow, in frenzy dafh'd from far,
Hiffh beats the ireful surge ot ruthlef . war ;
While, mob-made tyrant*, minions of an hour,
Vile murderer-kings, by murderers rais'd t« pq wer,
With gtovelirg insult, and base minded scorn,
1 rive unlike wrecks,tow'rds tyranny'sdarkbrume;
' d'-fperate traitors, whi m »o faith n strains,
" Pant to spread havoc o'er our fertile plains ;
While curlt impofttjre, with pacific wiles,
f Braves public censure, and e'en Senates
- While impious formers in their us cells,
Hc-urgc their'firoir/artn'rew their midnight f pells;
I While nought presents to reason's lutid eye,
Hut brave resistance or viU llnvery ;
The atriot doubts, ar.d precious hours consumes,
(n idle q'uib' lesand unmanfy gl .oms,—
O'er this vol ran*, threat'ning &v.-ry hout
Its burling lava on ourhea s ro pour,
'ln torpor sleeps and (hut 'gainst danger's cry,
See«, hour by host f.me chance of veng' anc« die ;
Infatuate spirit ! that way ruin l es;
Eacti h»ur of doubt, an hour of Treedom dies.
Vs f ne maz'd bird, the flaming voluni' 1 nigh;
■Vould (hun its fate, and oft efiays to fly ;
But all aftounj, and fill opnref-'d with cate,
. Olmgs to the spot, as wont to hover there :
The fatal flame, still fu're afictEow,
l evels the pile, and lays its tenant !ow ■
Rouse, then, while yet the pow'r toroufe remaiiis;
I. t coward eafc count o'er b«r peaceful fa ns :
Bear bought thofr. psins which from
And loft that (fate whi h oasts no no er prizj.
Let the red flag of vongeance be difp ny'd,
a nd gboftsof luffiaris , leam or ev'ryblade j
While the md; throats of our lousl canno:-. roar,
And deadly thunder on the miffreants pour;—
A l orde of monsters whom ny faith can bind,
Pelfs of the arth, curft of all mankind :
hen deep tho lat- (hall veageanca' bolts be-hurl'<J,
And hods of muriLerer* crowd the infernal world.
From the New-Tori Commercial Adveriifer
\
THE STAN D—No. I.
'■ ■ % * \}i r,i-1 . r.
THE enlightened friend of America ne
ver saw gr^afiM-occafion of disquietude than
at the present junfture. Our nation, thro'
' its official organs, has been treated with stu
died contempt and systematic insult ; effen
tfat rights of the country are perfeveringly
violated, and its independence and liberty e-.
ventually threatened, by tfae mod fla
gitious, despotic and vindictive govern
ment that ever disgraced the annals of
mankind ; by a government marching with
j hasty and coloflal strides to universal empire 1
—and, in th« execution of this hideous pro
ject, wielding with abfoiute- authority the
whole physical force of the mod enthralled
but mod powerful i>ation on earth. In a
situation like this, how great is the cause to
lament, how afflidlißg to every heart, alive
to the honour and interell of its eountry, to
observe, that dillraSed and inefficient coun
cils, that a palsied and utlconfcious state of
the public mind, afford too little aflurance
of measures adequate jitherto the urgency
of the evils which are felt, »sr to the magni
tude of th*: dangers which are in profpefk.
When Great-Britain attempted to wrest
from us thofc rights, without which we
mud have defepnded from the rank of free
men, a keen and drong sense of injury and
danger ran with eleftrici fwiftnef* thro' the
: breads of our citizens. _ The mass and
| weight of talents, property and charafter,
hadtned to confederate in the public cause.
The great body of our community- every
! where burnt with a holy zeal t6 defend it,
: and were eager to make facrificps on the
altar of their eountry.
If the nation with which we were called
to contend was then the preponderating
power of Europe ; if by her great wealth
and the fnccefn of her arms she was in a con
dition to hiafst or toawe the cabinets of prin
ces ; if her fleets covered and domineered
over the ocean, facilitating depredation and
invasion ; if the penalties of rebellion hung
over an unfuccefsful conted ; if America
was yet in the cradle of her political exid
ence ; if her population little exceeded two
millions ; if (he was without government,
without fleets or armies, arsenals or maga
zines, without military kn6wledge ; —ltili
her citizens had a jult and elevated sense of
her rights, were thoroughly awake to the
violence and injuflice of the attack npon
them, saw the, conduct of her adver£jry
without apology or extenuation ; and, un
der the impulse of these iropreflioiis and
views, determined with little short of una
nimity to hrave every hazard in her defence.
I his magnanimous spirit was the sure pledge
that all the energies of the country \vould
be exerted to bring all its resources into ac
tion, that whatever was poflible would be
done towards effectual opposition ; and this,
combined with the immense advantage of
didance, warranted th« expectation of ul
timate success- The event judified the ex
pedition and rewarded the glorious spirit
from which it was derived.
Far different is the pifture of our present
situation ! The FIVE TYRANTS of
France, after binding in chains their own
countrymen, after prollrating liirrounding
nations, and vatiquifhing all external refid
ance to their revolutionary despotism at
1 home, without the shadow of neceflity, with
no difcernable motive, other than to confirm
their usurpation and extend the sphere of
their domination abroad—These implacable
tyrants obstinately and remorselessly per
fid in prolonging the calamities of mankind
and feeoi lefolved asfar as they can to mul
: tiply and perpetuate them. Afting upon
the pretention to universal empire, they have
at length in fad, tho' not in aame, decreed
war against all nations not in league with
; themselves ; and towards this country, in
particular, they add to a long train of uri
[ provoked aggrefiions and affronts the in-
I supportable outrage of refufir.g to receive
the extraordinary ambassadors whom we sent
to endeavour to appease and conciliate.—
Thus have they, in regard to us, filled up
ihe.meafure of national insult and humilia
tion. 'Tis not in their power, unkfs we
are accomplices in the drfiga, to fink us
lower. 'Tis'ouly in our awn power to do
this by an abjeft fubmiflion to their will,
j But though a knowledge of the true char
adler of the citizens of this country will
not permit it to be fufpefted that a majori
ty cither in our public councils or in the
community can be so degraded or infatua
ted ; yet to the firm and independent lover
of his country, there are appearances at
once mortifying andalarming.
Among those who divide our legislative
councils, we perceive hitherto, on the one
fide unremitting efforts to juftify or excuse
the despots of France, to vilify arid discre
dit our own government, of course to de
flroy its neceflary vigor, and to dillraft the
opinions and to damp the zeal of our citi
zens, wbat is worse, to divert their affec
tions frffrti their own to a foreign country :
on the other fide, we have as yet seen nei
ther expanded views of our situation, nor
meaf'ires at all proportioned to the feri
oufnels and extent of the danger. While
our independence is menaced, little more is
beard than of guarding our trade, and this
too in very feeble and tremulous accents.
In the community, though in a founder
(late than its representatives, we discover
the vestiges of the fame divilion3 which en
ervate our councils. A few, happily a con
temptible few, prostituted to a foreign en
emy, seem willing that their country fhonkl
become a province to France. SNme of
these dare even to insinuate th£ treasonable
and parricidal sentiment, that in cafe of in
they would join the standard of
France. Another and a more coi.fiderable
part ate weak enough to appear disposed to
facrifiee our commerce, to endure every in
dignity and even to become tributary, ra-"
titer than to encounter war or increase the
chances of it ; as if a nation could preserve
any rights, could even retain its freedom,
which (hould conduct itfelf on the princi
ple os-passive obedience to injury and out
rage ; as if the drbafement of- the public
mind did not include the debarment of
the individual mind and the dereliction of
whatever adorns or exalts human nature ;
as if there could be any security in com
pounding with tyratjny and injustice by de
grading compliances ; as if fubmiflion to
the existing violations of our sovereignty
would not invite (till greater, and whet the
appetite to devour us by the allurement of
an unrefifling prey ; as if war was ever to
he averted by betraying unequivocally a pu
sillanimous dread of it as the greatest of all
evils. ,
This cbuntry had doubtless powerful
motives to cultivate peace. It was its poli
cy, for the fake of this objeft, to go a
great way in yielding secondary interests,
,and to meet injury with patience as long as
it could be done without the manifeft aban
donment of effeatial rights without abso
lute dishonor. But to do more than this is
filicide in any people who have the lead
chance of contending with effeft. The
condu£t of our government has eorrefpon
ded with the cogent inducements'to a pa
cific system. Towards Great-Britain it dis
played forbearance—towards France it has
(hewn humility. In the cafe of Great-Bri
tain, its moderation was attended with fug.
cef». But the inexorable arrogance and ra
pacity of the oppressors of unhappy France
barr all the avenues to reconciliation as well
as to redress, accumulating upon us injury
and insult till there is no choice left but be
tween refillance and infamy.
My countrymen ! can ye 'hesitate which
to prefer ? can ye consent to taste the bru
talizing cup of disgrace, to wear the livery
of foreign mailers, to put on the hateful
fetters of foreign bondage ? Will it make
any difference to you that the badge of
your servitude is a cap rather than an epaulet ?
Will tyranny be leffrodious because five in
stead of one inffidt the rod ?—What is there
to deter you from the manful vindication of
your rights an d your honor ?
With an icnmenfe ocean rolling between
the United States and France—with ample
materials for ship-building, and a body of
hardy seamen more numerous and more ex
pert than France can boast, with a popula
tion exceeding five millions, spread over a
wide extent of country, offering no one
point, the seizure of which, as of the great
Capitals of Europe, might decide the iflue,
with a foil liberal of all the produ&ions that
give llrength and resource, with the rudi
ments of the mod essential manufa&ures ca
pable of being developed in proportion to
our want, with a' numerous, and in many
quarters wtll appointed militia, with respec
table revenues and a fluurifhing credit, with
many of the principle of taxation
yet untouched,with considerable ar eualsand
the means of extending t,hem» with experi
enced officers ready to form an army under
.the command of the fame iHuftriows chief
who before led them to vi&ory and glory,
and who, if the occaQon (hould require it,
could not hesitate to obey the summons of
his country —what a striking and encourag
ing contrail doe* this situation in many re
fpedts present, to that in which we defied
the thunder of Britain ? what is there in it
to excufc or palliate the cowardice and base
ness of a tame surrender of our rights to
France ?
The question is unnece(fary. The peo
ple of America are neither idiots nordaftards.
They did not break one yoke to put on ano
ther. Though a portion of them have been
hitherto misled ; yet not even these, still less
the great body of the nation, cas be long
unaware c>t the true situation, or blind to
the treacherous arts by which they are at
tempted to be hood winked. The unfaith
ful and guilty leaders of 3 foreign facliou,
unmalked in all their rntrinfic deformity,
mull quickly (hrinkfrom the scene, appall
ed and qonfounded. The virtuous wham
they have led aflray will renounce their ex
otic -standard. Honest men of all parties
will unite to maintain and defend the honor
and the sovereignty of their country.
The crisis demands it. 'Tis folly to.dif
fetnble. The despots of Franco arc waging
. war against us. . Intoxicated with success
| and the inordinate of powerj they vir
tually threaten our independence. All ami
cable means ba»ein vain been tried towards
accomodation. The problem now to be
solved is whether We will maintain or surren
der our sovereignty. To maintain it with
firmnef* is the mod sacred of duties, the
the moll glorious ps talks. The happiness
of our country, the honor of the Ameri
can name demands it. The genius of In
dependence, exhorts to it. The secret
mour'niug voice of oppressed millions in the
very country whose despots menace us, ad
monish to it by their fuffering example. The
offended dignity of man commands us not
to be acceflary to its further degradation.—
Reverenee to the Supreme Governor of
the umverle enjoins us not to bow the knee
to the nsodern Titans* who crcft their im
"pious crests againfl him and vainly imagine
they can subvert his eternal throne.
But 'tis not enough to resist. 'Tis requi
fitc to resist with energy. That will be a
narrow view of our foliation which dues not j
contemplate, that we may be called, at our!
very doors to defend our independence and.
liberty, and which does not provide against
it, by bringing into activity and complete'y
organising all the resources of our country.
A rcfpe&able force, ought to proud
our commerce, and a refpe&able army ought
both to diminilh the temptation to invalion,
by lefTening the apparent chance of fuccels,
and to guarantee us, not only against the fi
n:il fucctfs of fueh an attempt, but ag.iinfl •
the serious though partial calamities, which '
in that cafe \yould certainly await us, if we j
have to rely on militia alone against the en-1
terprifes of veteran troops, drenched in ;
blood and (laughter and led by a (kiltul and
daring chief !
TITUS MANLIUS.
* A race of Giants tibied of old 10 have
mad« war on Heaven.
/
CONGRESS.
HOUfcE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY APRIL 4.
The bill authorising an expenditure, and
making an appropriation for the reimburse
ment of money advanced by the Consuls of
the United States in foreign countries, was
read the third time and palled.
Mr. Livingfton reported a bill declaring
the aflent of Congress to two afts of the
state of North-Carolina therein mentioned,
which was twice read and committed.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made a report on the petition of Jo
fiah Green, who prays for an increase of his
peufion, and that it may be paid in future
in the state «f Pennsylvania, instead of New-
York. The report dates, that no legisla
tive interference is neceflary in the latter cafe
and that it is not expedient to grant the for
mer- Concurred'lS.
Mr. Sitgreaves presented the petition of
John Vaughan, of this city, merchant, fta
ting»-that he lodged a quantity of silver bul
lion in the mint, between the firft of Janu
ary and the 21ft of November, j 795, for
which he received a warrant for 230,888
ounces of sterling fiJverr, which was issued
upon the report ot the then Allayer of the
mint, whose afiays were calculated at the
rate of nine parts fine to one part of alloy,
and not at the rate of 1485 fine to 1.79 al
loy, as the Jaw requires, by which devia
tion from the law, he has fufFered a loss of
2,260 dollars, and on which account he
prays relief.
Mr. Sitgreaves moved to refer this peti
tion to a feledt committee ; but this course
being objected to by Mr. Macon who said
it properly came under the business of the
committee of claims, it wa3 referred to that
committee.
Mr* Otis proposed a resolution to the
house, calling upon the Secretary of the
Treasury for a statement of the (hipping be
longing to the different diftri&s of the U
nited States ; when,
Mr. Gallatin observing that it would be
best to adopt a similar resolution to the one
formerly agreed upon, including foreign, as
well as domestic (hipping, the following was
agreed to :
Refolded, That the Secretary oj the Trea
sury be dircded to lay before the house, aJlate
ment, *txhihiling the tonnage of shipping belong
ing to thefeveral d'lJlriSi of the United States,
at the laji periodJtr which an account can be
prepared, di/lingui/hing the regijlered from the
enrolled and licenced tonnage ; also, a compar
ative Jlatement of the tonnage of vessels employ
ed in the trade between the United States
Foreign Countries, from Jan. lfl, I 795, to
the latejlperiod at which an account can be made
up, dijlingu/hing the foreign from the domeflic
tonnage."
Mr. Kittera wished the house to take up
the bill'which he reported 011 Monday, ref
pefting authorizing certain officers to ad
minister oaths.
Mr. Allen hoped the galleries would be
cleared, in order that they might again go
into the consideration of the confidential
communication from the Prelident of yester
day.
Mr. Gallatin supposed as that business
would not occupy much time, it would be
best deferred till the close of the fitting, and
in the mean time go on with other business.
Mr. Allen said, he wifiied to take up the
confidential business, as he supposed the pa
pers would be made public, and he was de
sirous that it (hould be decided upon as-ear
ly as possible.
Mr. Gallatin said, it that was the gen
tleman's intention, he had no obje&ion.
The galleries were cleared accordingly ;
and the whole of the fitting was occupied
w'th this buGnefsi, We have not learnt that
any rote was taken with refpeft to the
printing the papers, or for taking off the
secrecy from the farther consideration of
them. Adjourned.
General Williams, in his observations on
I Monday, iu favour of tb« new Militia Bill
which propofc3 the establishment of a ftU&
corps of young men of the age of 18 and Un.'
der the age of 24 years;and a reserved
ox persons of 24 and under the ageof 40,. ft; »-
ted the expence attending the present fyfter.a
as far beyond what it is generally thought
to be, and considerably more than the system t
proposed would be. He supposes there-are
now about 600,000 men enrolled, who at
lead spend fix days a year in the militia ser
vice, which if reckoned at a dollar a day (in
cluding expenfesjamounts to 3,600,000
dollars per annum, by the bill now proposed
it/ is supposed the feleft carps will consist
©f about 150,000 men who are to he employ
ed twelve days jn a year ; the corps
about 350,000, to bf called out only one
day in the year ; so that the differences of
expense in favour of the new' system,
atleaftbe I,26s,o6odollars.Befides, thetpre-.
sent system, h« said, exonerates one-fif(h of
the ,people from the service, fcty exceptions
in»favour of officers of various kinds, wjiich
he deemed unequal and unjust. In fine, that
the prcfent system is burdensome, at the
fame time that itis inadequate to the deifence
of the country, and if not amended, wpuld
be the means of introducing into this coun
try, what is the bane of all fief- government
a St a n din g Army.
I—Caaxafc. <smt*uy*itta&n'ztirLiJS9m ■ mm
NEW-YORK, April 2.
From Lausanne we learnthaton the ictli
of January, the green flag was displayed at
the house where the committee iff Union
were aflembled, with this infeription, " The
Alenwnnic Republic." Green, it is (aid,was
the color of William Tell, and other Swiss
patriots.—All the citizens decorated them
selves with the green cockade. The armed
force afcmhled and proclaimed citizeh De
bons commander. The troops proceeded to
plant Liberty poles on the square St. Fran
cois, am. V.i the tnoft vivid acclamations of
"lo.ng I ivc liberty ""long live the Alemaanic
Republic."
GeuerahWeis is preparing to defend jhe
Swiss territory,' and General Medart is col
le&ing troops and artiMy to maintain the
new Alt stannic Republic. A war with SwitJ
ztrland at least with Berne,feems inevitable ,
This necefTatily with involve the whole Hel
vetic confederacy unless French intrigue has
dissolved it.
The important crisis of Europe has deter
mined the court of Denmark to iflue orders
to the military commander in chief to recruit
with aftivity and to augment the number
of thofc employed in the artillery, and to
complete the corps of Chaffeurs—lt is sup
posed these troops are destined to preserve
the neutrality of Denmark and hi?r pofTef
fions in the neighborhood of the Elbe. It is
also reported that twelve fiiips will be put
in commiflion, and a cordon of troops eftab.
lifhed on the frontiers of Holilein.
The French papers announce that an
open animosity already exists between the
young King of Sweden and his house.
Two French citizens at Toulon have in
vented a new hydraulic machine, which it if
said will enable a person to travel on the
bottom of the ocean.
Query. Will not these machines be more
eligible for conveying Frenchmen to Eng
land, than the rafts.
NASSAU, (n. p.) Feb. to.
An order of council was iflued on the
20th of granting permission to
Spanifti vefTels having not more than one
deck, to trade between ihe free ports of
Jamaica and the Bahamas, and the Spinifti
colonics in America, according to the ftjver
al regulations of the free port aft, notwith
standing the present hostilities ; and also al
lowing the fame liberty to British vessels li
censed for that purpose by the governors of
Jamaica and Bahamas. Inftrudtions are in
consequence ifTued to the commanders, not
to moieft the vessels, British or Spanifli, re
gularly so licensed, and bonaJtde employed
in the said trade.
March 2.
Admiral Sir Hyde Parker's squadron,
said to consist of 25 fail, including fi'igatea
and sloops, had been several weeks in fight
of Havanna, and excited very serious alarm.
Provisions, stores, &c. were daily carried
into the Moro, See. to prepare for a iiege.
The Spanish corvettes were blocked upon j'n
Marannoa, and it was expe&ed would be
cut out by the British.
American vessels were fuffered to gt> in
and come out of the Havannah, without
molestation.
BERMUDA, Feb. 10.
Sunday arrived and came too in Five Fa
thom Hole, his majesty's ship Thetis, of
38 guns, the hon. A. F. Cochrane, Esq.
commander ; and his majesty's ship Porcu
pine, of 24 guns, C. D. Pater, Ej.q, com
mander, both from Hampton Roads, with
spars, &c. for the naval yard here ; but on
Monday it blew a heavy gale, am| in the
night tfiey were obliged to put to fita again.
On Wednesday the wind being fair, they
failed into Murray's anchorage. They fail
again ou a cruise in a, few days.
By an order, it is.' said, of the admiralty,
the naval yard here 3s to be furnifhed with
spars of all kinds for filch of his majesty's
ships as may call in to be refitted, which are
to be brought by f«<ch frigates as .come from
America occasionally. Two other Trigatas
are daily looked foi? with more.
Some time since his majesty's ships The
tis and Prevoyante; on their cruize, look
ed into the Havanna, and although they
were close in with [he harbor, no ships of
fered to come out to them, although there
were fereral of th t line lying at anchor, as
.veil as frigates,
jli Jo-
March 3.
Yesterday failed his majesty's ship Hind,
cap-. Larcom, for New-Providence, in
which went pafieijger his excellency gover
nor Dowdefwell, appointed to the .Baha
mas.:%i)C d^ettc.
■'" * ■ ■-- ' . x i
PH rii A 1) X r.T H I A,
THURSDAY EVENING, April $,
i ■■gagsfej
For the Gazette of the United Stater.
PmPMF.T-IC.
I (houjd not be furpriicd, if the Jacobins in |
Cengrels (fcouid now endeavor to withhold- the
communications they have received from the Pre- j
fident, fritai the people, ar.d bury them in eternal
fildr.ee. While they supposed the difclorure would
bring dishonor and disgrace on our own govern
ment, and furnifti them with the basis of a juftifi
ration for the damnable outrages of fheir iriends
the French, tS><r> made the loudest clamor* for the
papers ; the bifrutKims, the difpatcßcs, were ever in
their mouths,—no motives of prudence, no confi
dence in the President, could appease the bellow
ing, braying herd—The President was openly
blackguarded in their paper, the Aurora; and
Giles ana "Nicholas and {others, made (harp and
luslignant reflections on him in congress. But
when these gentlemen (I beg pardon) these mem
bers discovered by of the federal
party, and from other fcrcumflances that the dif
closure ot these papsrs would not our ex
ecutive, tlisy ftot only took no measures to ca 1
for them in congress, but when the requcft was
brought forward by a federal member, they at
tempted to clog the resolution in such a manner
that they hoped it wou4il fail. But they were dif
aopointed x t only in the conduil of the federal
fide of the house, but of the Prsfident alio, for
to their injiiitr merlifitatim he h 'sfent thcttik ail they
afreifur —If now th»fe inffruilioni and dispatches,
f<> far from involving oar executive in that dilkon
«r and disrepute with the people, which these fel
lows believed, or aiFeiled to tjeliev:, they wouli,
shall do him ,the greatefl honor as an able flatef
nun and a wife patriot—if they (hall cxpofe the
villi calumniis that have been propagated against
him ard convince the people, of his abilities and ,
virtues; —if, too, they (hall expose the studied and
iy Hematic outk-age and violence With which th
French have treated us, and the de'lrjiSlive designs
they are exerting against us, these patriots in
Congress will endeavour to conceal a'l these things
from the people, left they should withdraw thejt
fs<slions of the people from the French, and give
them fmne c'Snfidence in their own government. —
Let it he remembered that on the fifth ef April,
1798, I r.y, that some attempt will bs made by
the Jacobins in Congress to conceal theie dispatches
or a part of them from the people.
DEMOCRATIC BIOGRAPHY.
A question has often been asked—Who
is Giles ? I'll fatisfy the curiosity, because
it is right to know his origin, in older to
leflen attachment to his French fyftetn.
Farmer Giles is descended from the lowest
grade of Gentlemen in the ancient dominion.
His father was overseer of Mr. Berkely's
negroes ; arid being acute in his duty, sav
ed some money, by a ptofeflion mean in its
calling ajid cruel in its nature. Still, how
ever; Giles's father was too sensible not to
deplore his own want of learning, and was
determined that his son should benefit by
his afiidurty in the field. He gave the boy
a latin education, and in due time placed
him to the study of the law. .Thus endow
«d with latin and law,.young Giles Joon
became tolerably fsjinent in his profeffion.
But unfortunately the genius of the lad
had a bias also to gaming ; and hence no
sooner were the courts over, than away
flew Giles to the bowling green, card table
and horse racing—But above all, .his great
and amiable penchant was to the infamous
faro tabje. Giles has lately taken up the
family calling, and by marriage, a flumes
the oversight of 500 /laves—hence his pro
pensity to black guarding arises from his own
and from his father's negro-occupation—
and henc- by the rule of contraries, he is
'so superlative a friend to liberty qnd equali
ty —and an
" Adorer of the People•"
From the Aurora of Tuesday.
10 Mr. Robert G. Harper.
I fee in boith Brdwn and Fenno'e papers
of Saturday, a note explaining your aflferti
on in the debate of Thursday last, " that
•' the treaties of Pilnitz and Pavia were
" contemptible forgeries by this note
you confiue the aflertion tcf the second trea
ty of Pilnitz alone, and abandon what you
had declared of the firft treaty formed inthat
city, and by your silence, I suppose you a
bandon what you said ®f the treaty of Pa
via. Inowaffc you what evidence youhavein
proof of the second treaty being any more
a forgery than the others ? these treaties
were all brought to light by the fame means
and communicated to the world through the
fame channel, if that be good authority for
the treaty of Pavia, and the firft of Pilnitz,
why is it not for the other? If you have a
ny evidence to the contrary, I wish you
would refer me to it, in order that I may
come to a jHft conclusion.
From the Aurora of this day.
MR. BACHE, ' •
Mr. Harper did not aflert in his speech
yesterday that the treaties of Pavia arid
Pilnitz were forgeries. He aflerted that
the treaty of' Pavia was a forgery, and also
the paper called the second treaty of Pilnitz
and which fpeakssf a partition of France.
It is not for me to fay on what ground Mr.
Harper affirmed these papers to be forgeries;
but I can fay that they are weH known 10.
be so, having been fabricated by the Brif
fotin faflion, In order to inflame the people
of France against the Emperor, when that
faftion had resolved to declare war against
him for the purposes which are fully difolof
ed in their own writings. For the truth of
liis position Mi. Harper might have appeal
ed to the writings of Burke, of Calonne.
®f Mallet du Pan, of Gifford, and
who have never beeH conttadifted, and to
the speeches in the Briti/h parliament in fa
vor of adminiftratitih, which even lord Lanf
,downe and the opposition did not deny. He
did appeal to the knowledge of every well
informed man now io Europe, and of every
man in this country who had heard any
thing on French affairs more than the pa
pers contained in Deblrett's colleftien, ai.d
some harangues pronounced in the French
convention.
I As to the firft treaty of Pilnitz, about
which so much has been said, and so little
. understood, it merely a-eonditjorial and
| definitive agreement betweeri.tlje' Emjiercr
I and the king of PrulEa, that if either of
! their dominions, or any part of the empire
should be attacked by France, they would
unite in their defence, and would moreover
protest the king of France from personal
violence. They did not arm in support of
4 this convention ; and upon appearance of a
more secure and peaceable state bf things in
I France when the king accepted the new
j constitution, they fufpeuded the convention
by a public declaration. This is the utter
most which France and her pa. tizans rßjhig'
and other countries, call a " cbmbination of
despots against the liberties of mankind, 1 '
As to the conductors of th«' lFi^cK.re
volution being' a jjprcrl of miserable scoun
drels' Mr. Harper did'not fay fa. He said
f that he had diitovered the French revolu
tion to have been qontrived and brought a
bout by a a set of ambitiotti and unprinci
pled demagogues, ftrivirig fur power ; a set
of moon-struck philosophers, pursuing vi
sionary schemes; and a set of contemptible
fcoundreh, in pursuit of plunder - ' lii this
opinion I believe him to be correft ; and
those who are acquainted with the aitors in
this bloody drama will find no difficulty in
classing them accordingly. They will pro
bably place d'Orleans and his yuivy counsel
lor Mirabeau at the head ot the firft cl*fs,
with Talleyrand Perigord, Sityes, La Fay
ette, Robefpicrre, and the Lameths for ad
jutants. Rochifoucault, Clermont, Too
nere, Liancourt, Condorce, &c.
at the head of the second, and Dailton,
Marat, Cotldt d'Herbois, with their com
panions deftroyets and fuccefibrs may wsll
compose the third. This at leaf! is the o
pinion of A BYSTANDER.
March 30.
" Now Janus, are you aufwered I"
From the Columbian Centintl.
The PURSE STRINGS '
No. V, AND X-AST.
Or an examination tf ite tate alarming attempt
m CoNGRESS,'<« CONCENTR ATE all power
tie House o/"Rep»»skntativjs.
FELLOE'CITIZENS /
I have considered in detail the various rights,
powers and of the several branches of our
government relative to the immediate objefi of
my efTays, and hive endeavoured to prove that
the beauty, the order, the harmony and the
utility of the <wbole system efllntially depends
upon the diflindl, the faithful, and the unen•-
crouching exercise of their refpeilive authorities.
I have considered also the nature of appropria
tions, that they are limited in.their nature, con
fined in their obje<sls, and do not involve in
their exercise, that unlimited discretion, that
monftrotis prerogative, that boundless authority,
more dangerous than the Star Chamber, more
sbfolute than a papal conclave, a Turkiih Bi
van, or a " National AJpmbly."
If precedent could be, addueed in support of
this do<stri»e, surrounded with all the majesty
ot antiquity, and the weight of uninterrupted
usage, still I would repel a praftice so perni
cious, so fatal to liberty and to orgahi/ed go
vernment. But I have afierted that lam pre
pared to prove, that this attempt is noveltn the
history of this country and of every other bat'
anced government. Great-Britain has exhibit
ed, if not the heft, certainly the molt stable gov
ernment in which a balance, or division .of pow
er has been attempted. From the annals
therefore of her legislature, one might cxpedt
to ch aw the precedents of such a, claim or pre
ttnfion. Her constitution, founded only on me
mory, and the variable and perilhable records
of parliamentary decisions, has been guarded
with more caution than the Hefpefian fruit.
Her parliament, pofiefling within itfelf, all the
talents, and almost all the ambition of
the nation, has maintained with inflexi
ble perseverance its rights and its privileges, if
there be a fubjeil pre-eminently iutekfrts
the ztfal and excites the jealoujy of the house of
commons, it is the power to hold tlflS " PURSE
STRINGS" of the nation. It is the rightie
unlock the NationalJlrong box.
But can Mr. Gallatin, or Mr. Nicholas, point
us to the example of the house of commons hav
ing exercised, or claimed a power like the one
contended for fey them ? Have THEY ever at
tempted ta Jlarve the judges of the court of
King's bench .' Or have they fubje&td their
foreign miniftere to disgrace and penury, b
withholding theirpromifed renvard and necefla
ry support ? H.ns THEIR minority as virulent
and as daring as any but our own, ever attempt
ed to " flop the wheels cf government," by re
fufing afient to ordinary appropriations ?
" Ourfciends" and Mr. Gallatin's country
men the French, have lately made an ejpxy -afon
a " checked and balanced" government. To
be lure, they have proved that they, do not re
gard the " checks" of their constitution, and arc
not very sedulous to preserve the " balance" at
it; hut still tiiev keep up the exterior pagean
try of forms. Do we find the c'ouucil of five
hundred rafufc to pay the clerks or secretary of
the diredWy ? Do we hear of their Itrikin:;
out the pay and salary of ministers, because
they do not like their printiptys, or because they
are too numerous and increal'e tUe " patrtaa^e"
of the dire&ory ? I am aware that it will be
said that the cases are not perfectly analogous,
that there the directory are the strongest, and
would bar.ifh the members if they should piss
sny offenfive refoltuions, but that in this country,
the greate/1 power resides in the lower branch
of the legislature.
i his obje&ion is solid, I therefore pa/'p to the
consideration of ear praftice, in the several slates
at well as in Congress.
In the conftruiSlmn of all public as well as
private ctmpaSs, the most natural, certainly the
faireft and nuift proper rule, is to aim at the
discovery of the objelils aod intentions of- the
contracting parties —ln determining ou tire
meaning of the constitution ef the United
Stares, it ii certainly correcft to ascertain and
prafliee under similar constitutions of th* state
go«rnment?. J .
Subjlantia.'ly our ancestors throughout New-
England, adopted the English form of govern
ment. , .
They cAablifhed that beautiful and regular
fyflem so favourable to moderate liberty, tbat
valuable fnrm, which has been so ablv and so
jtiftly" defcndul" hy a ftatefmas Who lias there
by immo\tiaUkedlAi name. Whit then has beef.
tHe pr.idlice of the several slates upon this point.'
Although our house of roprefentatives viere fa
jealous of their right to originate money bills,
I as to rejeft an ail from the fenaie, for the dil-
<*f the 'railing of dogs, brcaufe it
contained a tax upon them, still an
pic be adduced of tbeir thwarting tH"c ordinary
oiperalion of Jawt, by tie exercise of J power to
refufe afient to appropriations 'Did they
presume to jinke out eftbeitems ofthf comrtrit
tee of acc«untt,the ftlary of a governor,a j'-.dge,
fcfecretar.y or a rnelTtoger : Especially a. lkJaty :
which has been earned by adualfernicet. j
Can an example so flagitious be produced in
times when principles were raoft pre.-arious,
and from ttl~tt records of the lcaft principled !e
giflature m the Union ? For thi honor of my ,
country lam happy it cannot. Ivno weight to
be allowed to the and cenftruction
webich has been given to the constitution by
Congress ? Is if not lingular, that the eagle eyed
Madison, and th; mole eyed G—y, in their firit
itVtrapts to urtdeanifie the cor.ftituti- n, and to
trtriM up the lower branch at the exp£nce of the >
weaker pirts of government, never dilcovered
this wonderful, this paratixing power .' It is not •
limply a negative tqftimony, which I would j
draw; from the journals of Congrefs—U ,i» >a.
;.oliiive, unanlliable precedent. it isthef;jj(j,
cited by Judge Ciaik, and which jlandl uncoa
t radioed. j-j
- ty~iD£i A] ?* •
MY FELLOW CITIZENS !
It was reiei ved for a Frenchman to have the
honor ef introducing this " ne.o light" into our
national assembly.
A Gene-van,which I consider the fame, in the
year 1795-, generously offered to tiach us how
we might render our constitution a dead letter.
How we could retain, the form but destroy the
energy and spirit of our government. .
Albert Gallatin firftereiled the standard ofthe
lioufe in h'oflility to the c6nfiitution, and Nicho
las, Livingfton, Freeman, Skinner, and othir
choice spirits faop rallied, an t entered into the
service of.this recruiting officer.
The firft attempt was to cieltroy a treaty, fp
lemnly ratified by two conjlitu:tonal branches.
The lecond was to fiarve ail the officeisof ihe
mint, a«d' thus repeal an a<S, regiilarly plfll-clDy
M three branches. The third is a flii! higher
tfWpatvMiit isan encroachment on the Execu
tive power, and a» exstioo to 4ifpl*cc and re
call fvilit officers, conliitutionaUjr appointed.—
Than iip t>i the genius of liberty,, their efforts
have all of (hem proved abortive. The late de
uiffl 1. on the Foreign Intercourse b : !!, has, I
h >pe, crtifhed this infant Hercules of Jacohinfm
in hii Lit ws nwt hwever indulge a
dangerous'lethargy—Let us not by torpid indif
ference, encourage future attempts to uiKlermine*
the conllitution. Let ys discard withxleferved
contempt, the ab/lrtd ideas, that/r;(r/7jr idepends
7 da numbers, that the mod numerous branch is
neceflarily the most virtuous gnd the molt wife,
that the rights and the'libei ties of the people are
mort efptcitlly <;oai:ded to its care ; that the
other branches are more removed from the peo
ple, and iefs iriterefled in thpir welfare ; but
let us rather cherish the truth, that they are
weak and feeble, and need our warmtft and
fincereft fupnort. LIVY.
From the Midd/efex ( Con.J Gazette.'
MR. DUNNING,
Being a farmer, and not very well ac
quainted with public affairs, I would wish
to be informad on certain points. And as
I am not much of a writer, I would put
feme querys, and beg fotne judicipus man
would give me an answer.
1. Are our members of Congress men of
chara dfer for integrity and htnefly, or were
they chosen by rogues for their Knavery ?
2. Have they the fame interest in the
fafety and prosperity of our country as we
have in general; If the country thrives, wilf
it J)c for the benefit of themielves, their
families and friends, and if the country
(hould become poor or go to war, will it be
of any'difadvantagcto them, their families
and friends ?
3. Will their being chofea by the peo
ple once jn two years be likely to have any
influence on them to pursue the good of the
country ?Is it likely that they will, get as
much by honeflly doing their djity, as by
roguishly violating it ?
4. Are our members of Congress men of
information ; and particularly on politics ?
■ 5. Have they as good means of know
ledge, as the writers in our news-papers at
home by the si re fide ?
Now Mr, Dunning, Idoti'» profefs to
know but little, but, if our members of
congress are men of integrity and of infor
matio'n—if their interest and mine is 'the
fame—if they can't bWng on a war or lay a
burdan on the country, without burdening
and hurting themfelvcs, their friends ana
families as ws;ll as me, —if they are likely to
get as much by bonejly as by roguery,—if
they are well informed and have as good or
better mean* of knowledge than onr writers
for the prints, I cannot fee why some peo
ple should be so much against them. May
hap, fir, they vote so clearly of the wremg
fide, that every body fees they are wrong
and difhonefl, for if they are not difhonefl, a
man may think they are wrong, because he
himfelf wants knowledge of fadls, or skill
in judgment. But .1 have often heard it
said, that politics are so uncertain, where all
the fails are kuovvn, that people will never
think alike,' and that wife men iriSy well be
of a different opinion. If but half the fads
aie known, it will be clearer still, that wife
men may dtffer, and I have often thought
(but mayhap it was a foolilh thought) that
in the country we don't know every fa€t a
bfout political measures, to a right judg
ements And though it is right for men to
think and taik for themfeHes, is it not e-'
qually right to think and-talk modestly, and
not to be too confident in our opinions ?-
Must we not fir, put ouetruft in men ? And
where (hall we find men mOre honest and
better informed, than our present members
of congress ?
Perhaps, it is the fenditig'men to Congress
that changes therti from lloncft men of sense
to regpes of sense, or without ffcrtfe, and if
so, we had better keep our good men at
home, & not ftnd them there to be fpoiled'.
Lj men mti/l not trnjl men, who shall we trust
(hall we trust the printers ? But they disagree
so mueh that one fays a thing is white and
the other fays it is black. Shall we .trust
Speculators, who always make a noifc to have
measures taken, that will raise the price of
their L<and, or to prevent its falling ? Shall
we trust Englifhmeti, Frenchmen, Irilhmen,
rather than ourown country folks? shall we
trust those naen, who wish that they or their
friends may go to Congress ? shall we trust
discontented, turbulent men, or men that
hnve not much morality or much sense*?
The weak answer I should give would be,
trust our own Countrymen of reputation for
«wr >fcuag.ijn <»<'>' %
honejly, goodjenfe and means of knozuiedge.
Who are tb*y ?
raan will show them to me, I will
be obliged to him. Bufc if he cant CtOi+ me
' men of better character for honcfty, and
fenfe andinfoj-mation than ourprefent mem
bers of cQiigrels,—l don't fee what he will
get by his show.
So if he don't show me, that those who
call therafelves republicans, are more honest
men, and better informed, than those who
are called friends of Government, I dosbt
whether it is troith my mhile to change
my creed at this time of day.
A FARMER.
; P. S. What is the reason ; Mr. Dunn
' ing, that the prints are so full of pieces in
the fprißg and fall ? Are men know
ing then tbau at other
ousfor public good, oris it then, that fly,
artful men ttndeavour toraiftf a fto'rm, that
Ithey and their friends may be chosen to of
fice ? If so, I fay, trujl not the writers on
politics till after freeman's met ting.
From the Shop t/.Vtffrs. Co low isf Spondee.
THE,TEST OF CONJUGAL LOVE.
'
Dfprendi tiiiferntn rji.—Hor . Sat.
Onhis fever burnt bpi), quiet pafpirip for breath,
Lay riji phon, corivull'ed with pain,.
While the wind 111 his throat (hook the rattle
, j of death,
r | .y,he hot blood rag'd through thi fwoln vein .
Large drtvps of cold sweat on his forehead (lid
stand,
luftre wasMim'd in his eye ;
While the chill of his feet,& thi chill of his hand,
Pronotinc'd that poor S ret Hon mult die.
His all wej;t, & his kindred allcried,
Wjth handkerchiefs.held to ea'-h eye,
While a boy and a girlfcbb'd aloud at each file,
I j t Tf think that their father mnft die.
But who can describe the fond griefs of his wife,
Her (hriekinps, her tears and despair,
Whin she vow'd that fame hour (houlil end her
own life, -
And tore offby handfulsher hair.
Oh death 1 thou fell monfter,in angui&fhe rav'd,
Ob spare my dear huiband, Oil fyare; '
Throw thy,-cedartatnie,let myhuiban'd befav'd,
Or I fink in a whirl of despair.
Oh how shall I live, when my husband is dead,
Or why this loath'd life should I save,
Then hafte,we!comedeath, &takemeinhisftead,
Or I'll go with my love to the grave.
[The wind whiftl'd high, the old mansion about,
And rock'd like a cradle the floor,
When death in the entry fUod knocking without,
With his knuckle of bone on the door.
And he burfted the lock, and the dooropen'd
wide,
And in the slim fpeflre flow strode, *-•
And he rattl'd his jaws and he rattl'd his fide,
As ovsr the threshold he trod.
Whose here, cried the fpeflre, who calls loud
forme,
Who wants death ? the thin fpecftrethen said;
Why, who? cried the wife, why, who should
it be ?
But the gentleman there on the bed.
The Legislature of this State have ad
journed fine die.
New Publication.
A Senfille, Seafondble and Spirited'
ADDRESS, * ''*■
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
What our Profpeds ?"
A few Pages for Americans. i
For Sale at this Office, No., 119, Chefout
Street. ;
(Price three Jixteentbs of a dollar J \
Fxtra& from the above.
" If is ajlonijhing to bear the expence of iv*r so often
urged, and by ivell meaning people too t againf our taking
?ny measures of fclf preformation—fhall we be dflreyed y
becaufo ivc ivill not incur the epepenge of defence. F»r my
. oiv n part y if it is neeejfary I should give one half of mil
I have to save 'the ether, I Jhall net hesitate to Jo ft —If
more it requifte, more shall be given ; and iffmn/ly, I
mufl give up all to prefer** my life and liberty, allJhall be
freely given. TLe true 'wealth of a nation Corfifls in its.
independence and fecur/ly, and not in accumulating gold to
, lie n ufcltfs heaps, or enrich tbe triumph oj a savage con
querer —At a time ivhen half the world is racked in dire
1 convulsions, ivhen immenfeuountries are defolatedandpoiv
etfdl nations extirpated, if ive ifcupt/ioitb expence only,
IVe may deem ourselves 'very fortunate/'.
. ' °pr:l S dj/
For Norfolk and Richmond,
,■ I nfCßßfrw " The fajl failing Schooner
■ FAVOURITE,
1 Wm. W.Weymouth, rhajler,
' IVILL fail in all next week. For Freight or Paf
[ f a £ e (having excellent accommodations J apply to tbe Mas
ter on board\ at f l ffe and Robert IValn s wharf, or to
GEORGE FLUMUTED,
' Ao. 166 Sou:b Front flreet.
aprit 5 3/ '
I Thomas £9° Joshua Fisher,
S HAVE FOR S.iLl,
AtNd.s, Dock-itreet,near the Drawbridge,
Plana ware nankeen dining lctts, tea and coffee
cups and faucets j-fiva sd'i'
Nankeens, black fattirs and taflities
Pungem cloths, choppah romailf, and bandannoes
' China and English umbrella?,
■ Togelher with a general ajfortment of European
I Goods— amtng which are
• Scots thread in boxes
1 6d. Sd. xod. lad and lod. nails
| Shot—T. Ciwley ft eel, tipanifli brown and white
lead,
Eugiiih fcytbes 41 to 50 inches
ALSO,
' ir» barrtllsof kiln dryei Indian corn meal.
■ rAcommodious Store inDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three ftorics high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth * stf
i FOR SALE,
Two three (lory Briek Houses
With convenient itorrs, wharf, &c. situate on
. Water street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
r Streets, chaining in/ront on Water street sis
, ty-fo«r feet, auii containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, \hen widening to th<?
• lot,rh thirteen f t e» f:x inches. Thrfe houses
• have thi convenience of a publ'c. alley adjnin
ing on the north fide, 3nd area very dtlitabiefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faifor, or others,
who may have occafiojr, for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reafonablc
terms W rash. For further information apply
1 t« the printer, •*
'] april j m&wtf
NEW-THEATRF.
Mr. Fennell s Night.
THURSDAY EVENiNG, April »
Will be prefsnted (for the fir it time this ieufot J A
celebrated Tragedy, called
KING LEAR •
AND HIS THREE DAUGHTERS.
KngLetr, Mr. Fcqnell
Burgundy, . W^retl.jan.
Cornwall, Hardingo
Albany, "v Fox
Glofler, Warrell
Kent, Warren
Edgar, Wignell
Edmnud, Mar'hall
Genjlciaan tJflier, Francis
Oldtmn,- • Hunter
, Cfoncril, Mrs. Harding;;
Regan, Mrs. Francis
Arante, Miss L'Eftrange
Cordelia, Mrs*' Merry
Knights attending on the King, Officers, Mc(Ten» "
kc. M-ffra. Lavancy, Lafferty, Opflor, <Stet
End of the T a Ballet Dance (comi>ofed
by Mr. Byrne) called,
THE DRUNKEN PROVENCAL ;
OR, THE SAILOR'S RETURN.
Tvre/mr. Byrne—Wilt, mr Warrell, jun. Vi-
mr Vo&or—Mofea, mr Bliffttr—Dickey Gof
fiip, mr T Wirrell.
Suiao, ruifi .Milbourne—Jer.ry, mr) Byrpe.
To which will be adi'edf a new Faroe, called, the
'ADVERTISEMENT;
OR, A NEW fTAV TO GET j\TARSI£B.
|3\Vritten by M r . Fennell.J
Alderman Mr. Warran
YoiMg Gofwcll, Bernat-d
O'Trigger, Hardinge
Pernque, Fox ,
Harry, Harwood
• Thomas, , -ii-•> f»
Mrs; Courtney, M r». Francis
•Mr*. Snip, • .S 'l-' fujrnq Mr*.L'Eor3ngi
B«tty, • Mifc L'ESr.uig#
Kitty, Mrs. Du&or
Tickets to be had at the ufusl plicaa.
£3° OnSaturday Everiing, the f.ivorite Come
dy of THE HUMORIS T, or, WHO'S WHO ?
THE WIDOW OF MALABAR. ! to which v. ill
be added, the Farce of the WANDERING JEW,
ior the Benefit of Mr. Harwood. i
Treasury department,
March 30ih. 1798.
Public Notice is her eby given,
THAT by an asl of palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aA pal Ted on the 6tb c!ay of July 1797, en
titled "An a«fl layiflg duties on stamped vcl
" him, parchmsnt and paper."
I.
The flamp duties on debentures or oertlfi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one h*lf
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervifora
or Infpedtors refpeflively, to any perfous other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to ba stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upou
which the duties fliall amount to Ten Dol
ars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by iaw, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional pr.ee will fee demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each <kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents foraaeh ft in of
Vellum of medium size, which may be ftrnift
ed at th.e expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my hand, at f-bitadelpbia, the
day andyeir abovemeniioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
I _ Secretary of the T'reafury.
The City Dancing Aflembly,
Intended for Thursday evening next is unavoidably
postponed until Friday, the 13th of April when the '
season Will be closed.
arril 4
~ " TO BE LET,
And given immediately,
Agenteel three ftorybrickHoufe,
N . 7, North Eighth street,
24 feet front and 55 feet deep, with a handfomc
Garden Enquire at No. u8 Spruce flrect.
April
TO LET, ~
AParlour and three Bed Chamber?,
Kitchen and Cellar. Enquire at No. if,, South
Fifth flreet. April ,
To the Afflidted' with
NERVOUS Disorders, lofsof appetite, female
complaints, debilitated conftitutibns, inward
weakneffes v loi®iefsof spirits, seminal weaknesses,
mdigeftion, decayed, weak or relaxed c r.fti' urioris]
pains in the limbs, poverty of.blood, li..ki;:r anx
ieties, and tremors, which so dreadfully a!T > the
weak, the fedeatary and the delicate, every fymp
?omof extferoe debility, attendant on the Ih&fcre
■ tions of youth, the of a J iffipated
life ; excess of pleaiure change 0/climate
the immoderate life of tea, spirituous liquors or
any intemperance ; disorders incident to young
girls women at a certaih of life
THE CELEBRATEX) ■
Cordial Restorative Ijalfam,
Is a medicine of abfiilutely fpecijic and unparal
leled virtues, in the fpeerly and effedual cure of the
above disorders, havinj: stood atnal of many fVc
t*ftfcl years, during which period 1:. say have been
restored from the brink ©f the grave.
. Youih and age of either sex, are equally the ob
jeas of tbi« Rello/ative, and they will ucifornily
participate in its falubrions qytalities and effeds •
for whether the fyftemhas received a fnock, an.l i-'
debilitated, from imprtidencies or irutteotion i. t
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ai J.
vaace ps years, a fmail quantity of this mediae
will give present relief to, and afford a pVaimg
profpeA of returning health and ftrengthi br giv
ing tone to the muscular lyltcin and organs of di
geHion, and in a great meaiure l'enov-ting the cou-
Women at any periodof life, may by this mcdi
;c;ne be freed torn the molt ifflifling dilbrders in
jrident to the fcx, and at a certain period it is mofl
highly u'cful.
The Cordial Rsftorafive i. fold genuine
(only) by the proprietor, Dr.JAMES CHURCH,
at his, medicine {We, No., 1, Sou'Ji. Third i.rect,
next Market ?reet, Pbila'.efphia ; wbare may be
hac an account of the virtu.•» of th-s Reft-ra'ive
and a I'd of cures. 'nilctw,?
v- a i' ril 3
For bale,
ACONVENIF NT -.veil boUt f:ccnd hand Vight
Waggon, hung on Jacks with .ghff.s
blind? in the doort, with or withottt harnef«.
Enquire of Pee- Umer.ckhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth fti*eet, or the fubfe'rib r-in Germantown.
CASPAR IV. HAINES.
April 2 'aawjvrJUST RECEIVED, $
tIOU FO R T-AU-F *IN CE, r-|
And FOR SALE, by lbt SUBSCRICERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee lem
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
' 100 bags do
110 hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar " e
4 80 barrels of do.
40 hog(heads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton I
% hoglheads of Cocoa J*'
WILLINGS iff FRANCIS, £<
Penn-ftreet.
march It. i
FOR SALE,. c<
bv the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet, so
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confijling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Co.Tiej Punjura Cloths p t
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhuras Charconna Dore« K
Blue Cloth Tanjibs on
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU T1
Mamoodyj Checks fei
Mahapagonges Patoa Hkfl. Ih
Ginghims Miilmu d®. hi
Gnzzenas Batulannoes an
Gurrahi Siflerfoy
Pmiafcoes Choppa Remals he
Salgatchys Sooty do. de
Gillie Romals Persians of various ccri. "
Mack Pulicats 4 r
too tons SUGAR
oe.ooo lb. PEPPER. "
Willing.s iff Francis. f a
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets. m
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs llkfs. of ele
eant patrenis and best colour*, k
February 8. dtf D
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different files, at a very larg;e, -
discount from the sterlings coil. If this Glals is
not disposed of before th; Jth ot April, it will be
{hipped from; this port
For terms apply to No. 89, South Third-flrect. ki
march 26. S IW
THE PARTNERSHIP OF **
.WELLS iff MORRIS, o
HAVING expired on the Ilth Pebrwarylaft, fti
all persons having demands againil the said ee
Partnerlhip, are requeued to furnith their accounts Y
for fsttlement ; and these indebted to the fame, to rc
make immediate payment to the subscriber.
GIDEON H. WELLS. i»
N. B. The bufinefi will be yrried en is hereto
fori, by the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar- b 3
ket-ilreet. IW march n. M
NOTICE. " y<
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the following
description, via—No. 10033, 10034, and JOO.IJ,
for jot>o dollar*each, dated Bth May, 1797, and
ilVn> on the books-trf the Treasury of the Uni- a ,
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington, w
of I>auov rHou'e.near b#. javeuney IB England, p
Ufq. havt been to Ik by the capture of the Ihip llac
elms from hence to London,in June lad.—Tins, -
thcr'-foi c sotifics those whom it may Concern, that
apj licaeiou will be mad ■at the I reafury of the L- r
cited States fer a resewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood. t
march 72
r | 'HK term of Go-partfcerfhip between the sub-
JL fcribrers, trading under th* firm of John Mil
led, jun.and Co. expiresthis day, and by mutual
coufent will nor be renewed' The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom allthofe indebted to the pa«\nerfhip s
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with*
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim. t
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19
* LANDING,
Vrom on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AKD FOR SALE BY THE SU »S C*IB ER ,
i6co bags prime Sugar,
B(X> do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 $
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—amongst which are—
Gurraha .Mameodies
Baftas Sannaf
Gnzzenas I aoda Coflaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calic»es
Palampoors Roma l Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proj rrtion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Slaving entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
the y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af_
fojtment of India, Gtrntan, Irijh, French and Bri _
tijb Mannfailureefor sale, on advantageous ternit
for cafii or a short creait.
lebreary 19 §tf
LANDING
From on botrd the Schooner Ran-gir, from
Jacquemel,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by ,
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. i»7 Chefnut-flreet*
Who has remaining on hand 6, 00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, ofafuperior quality.
March 15. d6t
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SJLE,
At the frifon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, Irom .~,dy to apdy
Flooring Brads, Sprites, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum -md c-hippcd Logwcod
Shnemakois and Sadler - Thread .
Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platlor. is, slabs, facia, window hea4«„ lills, c .
Air which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving donrf at said Prison at
a moderate prke.
Orders from adiltance, iirtvl.d to Daniel Tho- j
jr.as, agent far the beattended to.
December »6. nith6m I
Schuylkill permanent Bridge. 1m
THE fubferibers Commissioners appointed by
an ail of afTembly of this Commonwealth,
entl-!ed — An *St to authorize the Givernor of T)
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company JJ
• 4 for eredlinga permanent bridge eve* the river Eop
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia," gei
hereby give notice, that Books arc provided as the a* a
law direas ; and that we will proceed to receive we]
fubferiptions for 'he Company Stock, on the ninth ing'
day of April next, at the City, Hall, in the city of 1
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be -ecei«»<l BR
from ten o'clock in the morning till two o'clock, ny
P. M. of that day ; and the books will eontinue coll
opea daring those hours of succeeding days, until the
the number, required by the said law to enable the wh
Commissioners to certify the fame to the Governor obt
for incorporating the Stockholders, be fubferibed 1
RICHARD PETEiiS, a
JOHN PEROT,
_ GODFREY HAGA,
' ' MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF. A
Philadelphia, i<)tb March, 1798- X7 —.? awt L )ar
Ran away from the fublcriber,
on the 14th inft. two indented Irifli Servant Men: .. , r
Thomas M'Guire, about 25 years of age. and 5
feet 8 inches high, rob*ft, stout, and well made,
ftiort black hair, rematkabU for a fear on one of f
his temples; he is a forwatd, deceitful, vicious,
andunpfincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jeffrv Corber, about the fame a»e and
height, but of a milder disposition, ard jnoreflen
der make, (hort brown hair ; their working appa-
relwai blue clfcth over jackets, lined with coarfc
brown linen, check and brown lijien fliirts, gri y
yarn fteckings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfern,
and ruffett leather shoes; they have other cloarhing
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, but have been brought up to the farm
ing butinfcfs ; no doubt will have forged pafle* and
change their names and apparel ~as convenient, and
have taken the port road to Philapelphia, I pur- _
chafed them thelaft fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
To that I get them* and will pay all reasonable an
charges if brought home, or if fcparated, Thirty
Dellara for Thomas, and Twenty for JefFry. n
ARTHUR ARYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. 3aw.jw
Forgeries Committed.
WHEREAS several forgeries have been com- ■
x njitte4 in this city by one or two pcrfons '
known by the. names of Dr. Grant, alias South,
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a green com,
tail in p«rf»n, and genteel, had loft one or two
teeth iu front ; lodged, about July, 17116, at Mr.
Grimes'nt.iverD, at the George, iu North S;cond
ftreet ; hts friends live in New England ;
ed to have committed foveral forgeries in New-
York, and is said to he confined at tke wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for dealing watches. Ihe other
is a short, thick man, by, the name of Gilbert, —
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr, Bignall, and seve
ral other persons in this city. Information given
by aay person of the above men, to VVm. Prest
man, No. 15, South Fifth-ftpeet, will be esteem
ed a favor. Gilbert is between 10 and 30
years old ; yellow, fiekly look.
march 17. *3aw3w
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman te cook
aAti do the buiinefs of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed'good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer. £
February 7 » § r
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having keen loft. '
JOHN GRAHAM. .
march s
, TO LET,
jfnd may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three stories high, and in an excellent Hand for „
bi'fusft. Apply to y
Thomas JoJhua Fiber, t
march 1. § No 5, Dock-Hreet. \
TO RENT, «
A good three story House, . t
TWO rooms on eac floor, with a convenient :
Kitchen—in Front, near South-flreet. Enquire ]
of the Printer. march 3 1
PROPOSAL, ;
For Publijbing by Subfcripjion,
AN ]
• EN I R Y
INTO THE
ORIG 11} OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
THE Letters ta Dr. Currie, which 1 ptblifhed
last autumn, led me to an invefligation of
I, the origin and pheaomena of peftilantial
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the profrcutioo of the fubjeS, new fails and
principles continually opened to my view, and fi
nally determined me to trace back the history df
such diseases as far as the records of hiflory ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined theptib
, lie libraries- in New-York, Ntw-Haven, Cam
a. briilge and Boflon, with a visw to obtain ail the
material faft> which can illustrate the fubjsfl.and
1 have nearly colle&ed all the materials for the
prOposed work.
The la<SU eell cled will enable me to demon
strate that many of the common idra« refpedting
peflilential epidemics, are unfounded or extrem«-
ly incorreA ; and this in consequence of medical
| writers cenfideriag an epidemic disease as a detach
-0 e:l or isolated phenomenon in a particular Colin
try ; rather thau as conne&ed with other epi 'e
at n»ics or other phenomena of nature in various
•e, part" of the world. The fa&s I have collcifted
:re lead to certain dedoiftions which are furprifingto
if, myteli, and which will probably be new to many
ri other's. Much light will he thrown on this dark
it" and p rplexing as well as an natural phi
losophy.
The proposed work will make a full-fized o£la
— vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, caß
not he afforded at lels than two dollars, bound,
with the usual allowance to book-fellers, - s the
"" compilation will cod net only great labor,but con->
fifUrablc experee., no more copies will be printed
■ e than to i\pply fubferibers. The book will be ie»-
' dy for fubferibers early itlthe coming summer, and
the holders of proposals will be good «rf ugh to
return them to No. 40, Pine-street, by the fir ft of
May.
n- SoßscaiprioNs received by the book-fellers in
Philiilclphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, New-London, Providence, Boston, Bal
tircore a id Charlefto*.
-• NOAH WEBSTER, jun,
m;rch 18.
el" Jufl received, and for Sale at theßookjiore of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. s* South Second flreet.
A COMPLETE H(SrO.KY OF
CONNECTICUT,
es, CITIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
■s, From the emigration ol its firft planters iromEn
. gla d in 1630, to 1713.
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d. d.
at VOLUME J.
Embellifned with a correal Map of the State, and
0- Portraits of f«me of the firft ftttlers, from origi
nal paintings.
match ij, • uojw
interpreter ofl"oYtignLanguages, j
JOSEPH E. G. M. ot LA ORANGE,
Walnut-flreet, No. no,
BEING dultcommiflrioaed-ap i fwym '"t J* I} j.,
bove capacity, offers to tran.fiart the French, t
Eng'iih, Spanift, PortugUcfcand Italian Langua-
gei : he flatter, himfelf that his former prcfeHion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has (
well qualified him to tranfl ite any Court proceed- (
ines or other Jud ciary inftrumenfs. I
N B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING Ü
BRtftY continues open the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to tms
collection, it confiils now of about 15°o volu " lg ''
the best adapted to answer the purpose of thole
who wish both to improve in the Language, and
obtain uftful in(lru<slion and plcafarc.
march.p. »» -
A House and Lot in Burlington.
FOX SALE,
A LARGE commodious two story brick House,
and 1 arge well iaiprsved Garden ; with a Ai
lar«e Clever I or, a (table, a Carriage Hotife, and
Spring House, &c. in the C.ty of Burliagton,
New-Jitrfejr.
Thi« property is allowed to be the mod healthy
and beautiful of any in Burlington, having a front A|
of 360 feet upon the river, and extending »o8 feet
back; bounded on one fidtjby Broad-llreet, and on
the back by a wide alley.
The house is in form of a square, fronting 54
feet upon Broad-ftrret. ard 58 "P nn thc river,—
with a pump of water at the back door, besides
two fine springs rising eut of the beautiful bank
between thc garden ami the river.
Far particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth- A
street, to
GEO. WALKER.
Who has a/so For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
march 31. §
JUST RECEIVED. "
And for sale by Vy.Toung, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M., Carey 18 High-ftrret
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-street and the
Boekfe lljers generally* 1
(Price 5 Bths ©f a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Pom, historic and deforiptive :
By a Lady of Bojlon.
* A isA LYSIS OF BOOK I.
Alluiion to the'furroutiding Profpedi-- Invocation
to the Riv r and sylvan Dritie?~to the Isiftorie
Mufe—Fiflinn discarded—.Dedication to Wa(h-
Ington—The Aition pe*-at the Retreat of tbe
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—PerfsniScation of Frrtune an. Fame— h
Waihingfon at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
, Camp at Cambri ge—Natural, mora! or poli
tical Hillory of the several States —Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bo(lon—Its -Suffer-
Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congrcf*—rDeclaration of Independence —Cha-
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic ApoProphe to the Frogreti of Free- >
dom througbourthe World. i
march 30. S
JUST PUB■ ISHED,
AND FOR. SALB AT THIS OFFICE*
( Price 25 Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT Or THE EXiCUTirt., 1
' As published in the
1 GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
- Under thc fignatur* of
S CIP I o,
In ivbich the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
f6 tbe French Fadiion in thi* Country, as its Source,
aud'tfce Motives oj Oppcjstion, Iffc.
march ——— - -- - -
Ten Dollars Reward.
ABSCONDED from the fubferiber, an indent
ed Boy, named William Aston, about 19
years of ags, J feet 6or 7 incheshigh, llout made, '
thick short hair, speaks remarkably faft. Had on
when he went away, a (hcrt corduroy Jacket and '
trowfefs, and round hat. All persons are caption
ed not to credit him on my account, as I ar> deter
mined not to pay any debt of his contracting—
it and all persons are delired not to harbor or em
•e ployjiim, as they will be p-ofecuted to the utmofl
rigor of the law. Mailers of vesselS an i others
" are desired not to take him a May at their peril
Any person apprehending th« fjjd runaway, a (id
lodging him in Jail, so that his mailer may get
him again, Iball receive the above reward, and ail
reafoHabk charges, by applying to
JOHN HARPER,
167 Arch, ei jl South Third-street.
id march 30. 3t
el Frefli I eas.
id jH/f Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
g. Captain Copper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
b- At hia Comptiwg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
n- ANO IV
he SAM. E. HOWELL,
fl d At hi» Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
he BoheajSouchong,Hyfon,Young
n- Hyson, Hyson Skin, aad Imperial TEAS.
[|g ALSO,
China Ware, affsi ted; black and coloured Lute
al strings and Sattins, Naokeens, Cassia, large garden
h- and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
n _ whale-bone flicks.
1 e- They have al/o Ftr SaU,
, u , Ell wide Pcrfians. Bandanna HanJkerchisfs,
e( j French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir botes.
t0 march 8. §
New-Tort, January 14, 1798
h r * PROPOSALS
By Arondt \*an Hook,
* a " 1 Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
'j" For Publifiling by Subscription,
th« An Appeal to Impartial Poflerity,
an-- By Madame Roland ;
ted Wife of the Minilltr of the Interior in France.
e »" CONDITION'S.
,n " These scarce and very valuable Historical Mt
to moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tionsm a few months,) will be comprised in 4
vols, oflavo, of 400 pages each.
cn will be printed on fine paper and a new
I type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly.bound
and lettered, at i dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paifl on delivery of the firft volume—the re
— , maitider when the work iscompleat.
'°J To Trinters, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the ufuai allowance will
be made
Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water ftrcetj-the Printing
office. 149, Pearl-ftreet—a:id at the different
Book (lores in New-York-- Alio, by William
Young, corner rf Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor at the Gazette of thc United States,
Philadelphia.
md As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
gi- are obtained, the work will be put to press,
Icornpleated with the utmost dispatch!
Ftb.jo, cod am
, treasury department,
MARCH i» 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE 18 HEREBY GIVEN,
IN-ourfusmcfi ofthe Afi of Cengrefs pasTed on the filth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ei-titled " An Afl laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Pat chment and Paper ,
Acl passed on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ni " e 'y- fev "'' •
- An A a to pnftponc for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the \A cntj
tied '• An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from and after tlw
firft day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and c dec
ted throughout thc United States*
For every Ikip or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or fhect or piece of Paper, apon which Aall he
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings.'ollowing—to wit :
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - " . 5
\ny Licence to pra<f\ice,or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment or regntry of
a'iv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proilor, in any Court of the
United States, - " - - * 10
■Provided, that a Certificate in any *one of the Courts of the United States
■ for one the laid Office), (hall l'o far as relates to the payment of the
. duiyafoje. aid, be a fufficient adwiflion in all the Courts, of tlie United ;
' Stales, K>reach and everv of tbefaid offices.
\my 6rant cr Letters Patent* under the seal or authority of the United States
* (except so: lands granted lor militaryj"ervicc!j) - "V - 4
. Any exemplification er certified copy of any fu. is grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for hrtdi granted for military lerviees) ... a
Any Charter-Pany, Bott< mry, or Refuontlcntra Bond, f - I
Anv Receipt or dilV'harge for or on account of any Legacy left by any Will or o
ti er tettamentary inllrixrient,orfor any (hare or part ofa perfor.al estate di-, 1
vided by (on eo) any ftatuttof diftri'butUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafetl, the amount whereoflhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
' When 1 la mount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - - 5.0 \
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of j
Any Policy of Insurance or lnltrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefle'l or
goods in fared T> om one diltrift to another in the United States 3;
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, " I
Ai«v Exemplification, of wlut thtnre soever. thi; (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furniffi for the use of the Umred States or some particular iiate, - 50
1 Any Hotid, bi'l single or peaal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
' note or other note, other than any recognizance, hill, bond, or other obliga
: tion or contrifl, made to'or with the United States or any ftatc, or for their
uferefpetftively, - ' * * " , ," „
If above twenty dollars and r.M exceeding one hundred dollars. - 10
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand doll,l rs, - - 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (ha\l be payable at or within sixty days,
such .bonds or notes (ball be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty
n \ afarefrid —viz. - "
C If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred - 1 4
I( above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolUi s, 10
6 if above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I
If above one thousand dollars, - - " . " 3°
Any Notes iffiied hv the banks now eftabliftred, or that may hereafter be eftab
e lifted within the' United States, other thai-the notes of luch of the (aid Basks
n as (hall agree ti; an annual composition, oi one per centum on the annual dir
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpetfively, according to
thc following fcaJe. - ■ "
On all notes not-exceedi-=g dollars, for each dollar, - - o
On all notes above fifty'dollars, and not weeding " n « hundred dollars, .^o
Cn ail notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, -
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - a
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - - - - 15
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa.or to obtain or (ell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military fervsices
performed in the late war, - -
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars. -
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
V For more than two thousand dollars, * 3
Any note or bill of lading for gonds or merchandize t. be exported,
If from one diftrifl to'another diftriifl of the United States, not being in the
fame State, ... - 10
If from the United Staffs to any foreign port or place, - - a 5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeils, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and ehaitels distrained for
cd rent or "taxes, and goods taken in virtue «f any legal process i>y any ofiker,) • 50
"> Any Certificate of a Share in any Ingram e Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or ofanyS-ate or other Ba k, - 4- -
_ If aboVC! Twenty € TIXrS arrd '-'.ox exct cding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dol'ars. ... 35
If under twenty dollars, at the rateof ten cents for one hundred dollars.
n.
' " The dutiesaforelaid will becolle&ed and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeflors aud other Officers
. e of Infpeifion, in the several Diitrifls, Ssrveyf Divisions of the United States, and by such other
ol | persons as (hall from te time be fpeciaily appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrids for
nd that purpose. _
The Super.vifurs of the several Diflrids will, prior to the firft 'day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may he practicable, mark or (lamp, wirhont fee, or reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with »ny of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
0 n damped vellum, parchment and paper r>.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
s taincd at the rates prescribed by law, 1 y application to any Supervilor, Infpeaor, Officer of Inl'pedion,
or other p«fou appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftricls
_ . GiyEN under my Hand, at Philadelphia
the day and year abuvementhrred.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
f6r sjle,
By WHARTON fc? LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
id and ad proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. - eodtf
r NOTICE.
ALT. persons who have any dtminds against
ths estate of Willam FLFtTWOOD, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are s requelted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, }
No. » 5 , So. Third-llreet. \ Ad ™ n <fi r r
January 4. dtf
| Just Published,
And to be had at the Bsok-ftores of Messrs. Dob
son, Cam sb f.ll, Young and Orurod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulis and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
*7o xvbieb is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ice of
, different authors : and an i PPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefiing fails and refle&ions relative to
the Synoclut Itleroidtsy or Yellow Fever, which
has occafi ned f<> much diflrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in fever.il of the feapert
towns of the United States of America.
; by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
; and Member of the American Philoiophical So-
I ciuty. Feb. I—*3m§
; Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
- TT riLL,wmmence drawing Monday, the aotjj
VV inft, Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
3 Seven Dollars, at Wm BLACKBURN's Lottery
j and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet—
{ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lotrcry, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept ior register
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafliing
ton, No 11.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion whtxe tickets may he had in the Lotte
' ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
J Union.
> N.B. The bwfinefs of a Beoser, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
4 difcQ«Btin£ Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
1 Lands, Houses, &e.&c. will be duty attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 11. c
' * f
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra& his busi
ness, offers this Eihte for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine* and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; alio a good Forge, all
in perfect repair,as air ail t lie Wster Works conneft
ed wirh these various branches. The Air Furnace#
were lately built for the purpose ot calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfaft wred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty- nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation s very eligible, particularly for this brana* of
manufacture, a*d a place of arms lying in the Wate
of Connedlicut. and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the stock anci utenfi's, and have poffefiion
on er before the ftrft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with forae coal, Ore, Stc. &c. For
termi, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Ef'q. one of the Reprefenpfeives
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, &avid Waterman, on
theprenNles, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOX.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
h O T 1 C E.
A ManufaSary of yettozu and delft <wart,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been latelv erefkd at Tivoli, Red Hopk Landing,
onthe Eall Bank of Hudson's River, state of Newj
York, where any article of various forts and (hapej
may be executed, as well as earthem (loves upon »
new conilruttion, that saves three fourths ef the fuel
comraonlyufed in call iron Ooves or© pen chymoi'Si
they atcbtfldesvery wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the laid ware. Generous appoint
mcnts will be given. Apply asab-ve, or to
David brooks, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street,
Feb. 19. , eod4^
Wanted,, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou*
Irent will be given; to iie taken tor a rear, or on
more for a longer term. Saquireof tb« Printer,
Oil, 17. ' eetf