of ttjc z&i, ANj Pbimdelphth Daily Advertiser.
■ By John W. Fenno, N c iiq Cbefnut Street. .
I. -—" 1 ' t'-■ ■ :..- --. /,•»/- . . ' . ■■l
fdMsßg 4872. j PHILADELPHIA: MQNpAY EVKNING, SEPTEMBER *7, 179 ft. -'. • .X1V,,1
IXfje <Sasett^
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, 17 .
DIED,
On Jricttfy evening last, Mr. John
r ENNO, late Editor and Proprietor of
his Gazette.
The Gazette of the Un : -ed "Sta'es wili
h future be puhlilhed under the direction,
if 'John Ward Fentie, foil of the deceased.
Di^d—at Mileftown, on Thursday morn
ng, Mr. John Holton, one of the clerks of
he bank of Pennsylvania.
Vtr. Robert Hartlhorne, foji of Patterfon j
-fart (home, merchant of this city, after an
llnefs or" four dsys. death was occa
sioned by a severe fra&ure'of the leg, in
ttmping out of a chair. By this fad «c •
lident hi-i affli&ed parents are bereaved of .
in only son a dmifsl child, jult entering ;
he bloom of life.
——Oil Tuesday night last, Thorna* !
Service, aged ten years. " "<* Mr. John (
Service. nf cfty.
Saturday morning, in the feven
"enth year of his age, Mr. Thomas Burn
ide. brother of William Burnfide, grocer
.f (his c-»
——Yesterday Mr. Isaac Price, watefc ,
naker, one of the co.r.mittce of health. c
•tefs, Wiliram Martin, a refpeflable, mecha
lie of this city. ' 1
——y Friday last, Patrick Caffidy, prin
er.
DONATIONS,
Received <U the Tentt near Schuylkill, for the
life of the Poor.
September i' 4. (
Hafll •fifty doll art fr rh th*e inhabitants of ,
the village of Halboro'ugh, as follows:
letfcy 'S>?drn'afl It) H'a.ie rom'kins 3
Shewell 10 Jolin Thomas j ,
fifhua'Lnrgffrefcb 5 David Parry 2
Elizabeth Fergufon 5 Sam. Shoemaker 2 '
-'ufan Loiig/trtth 5 Jof. Lougftreth l
Micfialas ' uftin 4
Eleven flieep, a quantity of pickled pork, '
fmnked jowls and hams, 2 bags and ohe :
bushel of rye mttal, twenty boihels pota
toes, 14 ditto f eet, twenty foltr shad.
several couple oi fowls, three pfttts of !
butter and some cabbage?, from Mr. Jo
(hua Howell, in behalf of the inhabitants
of Gloocefter, New Jersey, deliveted by
Mr. Thomas Weft.
Fifty bushels potatoes, and a remarkable
ficre ox, fi'om Mr. Richardett.
Pw6 large cart load of potatoes onions,
cabbages, beets and apples collected by
Mr. Nicholas Pickel, from MeffrS McfT
mer, Lentz. Tniftam, Sink, Shelter, ,
Nobank, Wool ner, D. Young, Benner,
Lodge and Simon, in the neck.
Dri September 15.
letfen cords of pine wood, two hundred
fait shad and a quantity of potatoes from
Mr. Joihua L. Howell, in behalf of the
inhabitants of Gloueefter, New Jersey,
delivered by capt. John Tatem, also a
bundle of old linen, for the Marine and
Citj Hospital.
One hundred bundles straw from Mr. Geo.
Green.
Cafli two dollars, from Mr, Allen Roberts,
to be continued weekly during the pre
vailing fcver.
\ small quantity of filh from Mr. Davey.
Twenty fix barrels iiore bread from Mr.
Ralph Mather.
Cafli, twenty dollars from Mr. William
B[ Wilson, Kredcrickfburg, Virginia.
■ Thirty fix fat sheep, colle&ed by MefTri,
B Caspar Wiftar, P. Price, jun. and others
H in their reigfibourhood.
If ifteen.handred feet lap board#, frorti MelTra.
ft. Price and Worrell.
September i 5.
Four barrels apples, from Mr. Wiilianrt
Hunter, PafTyunk.
1 One keg of Tamarinds, left at the upper
feriy, by a perfoß unknown.
By order of -the Committee.
PETER MEIRCKEN,
Sept. 17. Chairman.
DONATIONS,
Received at the encampment at Matter's
place, for the use of the poor.
Sept. 14.
From Peter Stephen DuponceSu, Esq.
Fifty Dollars.
September 15.
From a person unknown, a load straw.
» George lCir:finger, 10 bushels potatoes, a
fine fat sheep, and half a bushel onions,
■fit From a person unknown, a bundle of warm
H clothing, and a doz. large loaves of bread,
pi From Benj. Chew, jun. Esq. 15 bufhelsof
Igj potatoes and 6do apples.
KjFram Saml. R. Franklin, a cart load-os
Kj app'es.
HjFrom Richard Hill Mortis, 1000 feet of
PI hoards'
HjFroni Mr. Dub' s, two tierces of Rice.
® John Insleep,
''Jona. Robeson, |-Committe.
pj Isaac W« Morris ,J
j P Bitter herbs, particularly Centaury will
Iff be very acceptable.
0- Those Citizens who have LINEN to
Kr„ a re will" render a ptmKc service by Hjn in? it
p-! tl.eCitv H^l! - for the life of theC'ty Hospital.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
ran rsP'TSMB sit 16.
Admitted—TWENTY-SEVENfortie
last forty-eight hours. I
Died—FOURTEEN-
Discharged, cured—THIRTEEN.
Remaining in the Hospital 135, of whom
35 are on the recovery.
Interred in the Ho pital GroutTd,
From City Ho'pital 14
City and Lib.rties 47 ,
Total 61. 1
PHILIP S. PHYSICK. ,
C'tiriftopber Darr*li, Steward.
By order or the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Prelident. '
Atteft—Timothv Paxson, Clerk. '
ONF. HUNDRED AND NINETY- :
EIGHT re* cafesof the vailing fever, re- t
ported by 20 Physicians, for the lafl 48 '<
hours. c
(Xj* BURIALS in the City and Hofpri- r
' tal burying grounds, for the 24hoursi nid- f
; ing lall evening it 8 o'clock:—.'.dulls, so c
Children, 10, a
Cily-HofP'.ttil, Sept. 6, X 798. f
' | A food Cook and Fatt'iful Nurfts will f
find iimmediate employ a;d generous wages V
by applying to t
' ' CHRISTOPHER DARRAH, J
Steward of the City Hospital.
The Health Office is |cer>t open night and
1 <l*|, at City Hall, w here tveiy ntceffary t
convenience i« prnenred for removing the lick f
and buryiug the dead. ,
WILLIAM ALLEN.
t
At a Meeting of a Readable Number of r
the Inhabitant!, of heller County,- held
at the Ce .tre House in Weft Bradfoid
Township, for the purp ife of nomr ating
a suitable Perf ti f r Reprefentativc in
Congress, and also a suitable Person for
S ate Se'taton, ]
The followi, g Perfonß w;re recommend- j,
ed to thei- fellow-citizens for the following t
offices.
RICHAft D THOMAS, Efjuin 1 ,
Reprefentatiye in Confrefs lor the Dif
tribl coYnpofed of rhe counties of Chester
and Delaware. j
DENNIS WHELEN, E/gylre
State Senator, for the District composed j
of the counties ol Chester, Montgomery,
! and Bucks. ■ |
Refoived, that the Proceedings of Itis
Meeting be ptfblilhei in the public newf
f papers.
Signed by Order of the Meeting,
ISAAC WAYNE, Chairman.
Joskph HfiMPHit-L,Stcr'y.
September ']tb.
: LITERARY ARTICLE.
The printing apparatus of the propaganda
' of Reme, ia to be tranfportvd from thence
to Paris. It contains every reqtiifite for
printing books in twenty eight different
languages, particularly the O iental. Six
' of the conipofnors employed in it fet
off for Paris. Among the types a e t' ofe
j for printing the Sanskrit language, which
1 has fixteeti vowels, and thirty-four confo
f nants,andthe Hindoos or invented by the
Bramas for the pnrpnfe of rerording therein
their philosophical and religious mysteries.
1
C?" THE Committee are happy in hav
• ing it in their power to inform those citi
zens who are not in a fitiiation to provide
» for themselves and are desirous to remove
' from flie city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
the "Escaptnent on Mailer's Place, in the
* Northern Liberties where such persons will
be furnifhed with comfortable apartments
1 and neceflary provisions during the present
calamity.
t
From a London Paper.
SIEGE O~F LYONS.
Even those who admire the French revo
lution, cannot view the following scene but
n with horror and deflation. It is a faithful
pit Sure of the memorable siege of Lyons,
r and may serve to show the savage ferocity
of all the Jacobins, when t}»e chance of war
favours their diabolical designs.
" During* the space of sixty dayr, they
(the Lyonefe) withstood an army of fifteen
times their flrength, plsntifully provifiohed.
and provided with every instrument of def
-8 trutftion. Never perhaps, were th«re such
featis of valour performed as by this li' Ile
army ; thrice their numbeis did they lay
dead before their injured city. The besieged
1 hen feeing no hopes of a capitulation ; fee
ing the city without another day's provi
sion, and the total impoflibility of fuecour
a from without, beiog completely inverted on
every fide, had but one m aftire to adopt—
" to cut their way through the enemy or fall
P in the attempt. A plan of retreat was there
fore fettled upoj); the out polls were to be
f called in, and the whole were to assemble at
' the Vaife. It was midnight when they be
j. gin their retreat, lightened by the blaze of
' bombs and burning houses. Reader call
your eyeS on this devoted city. See chil
dren cling to their fathers, diftrafted mo
thers to their sons; wives, holding in tht ir
arms what they held dearer than life, for
getting all but their husbands marching by
their fide, and braving death by ten thou
sand hands ! But what were they to c'o
0 ngaitift -fifty times their number? Tke
it whole, about perfons excepted, were
I. either butchered, or tricen, to gratify by •
torture, the barbarous disposition of the
viclors. i_
After viewt&g tiiit of horror and
j dismay, what,
wi(li for the trinm'pli jo tiris.epUotry, of the
Correfpondrg Societies, v.-iioft fleeting
reign would.be rendered iiifc-'tious by similar
barbarities.
The citizens of the city of Philadelphia,
the Northern Liberties, and Southwark. are
requeftrd to meet at three 6'clock, P. M.
on Tuesday next, the 18th inft. at Richar
det's Tavern, in Germantown to take into
confidleration the necfliety of furnifhing em
ployment for their diflreffed fellow citi.V'ns
who are at present without any means of
fubfiff ence.
The great numbers now out of the city
and Unemployed, and of course destitute of
the means of procuring bread, require the
attention ef the charitable and htimane part '
of the cominonity—To provide employment
and the me-mi of gaining a livelihood by ho
nefl induftrv, will be at once affording relief
from difttefs, preventing idleness, the mod
dmgerons fittntlon in society, and will give 1
an opportunity to commence, if not t« com- ]
plete some plan that may probaMy heft an
fiver the purpose of providing the city with
fclubrious air and pure water; and by the 1
blefiing, of ProVtdence, prevent a return of 1
the present dreadful calamity under which-
Philadelphia fuffers. i
Germantowa, Sept. 14.
*** WE are informed that Boxes for 1
the daily conveyance of letters from Phila
delphia. addiefled for the B a nk*> of Penn
sylvania or-North America, are lodgfd at
the Pod Office in the City, for the accom
modation of those who choose to avail them- 1
fel'ves of that mode of conveyance. 1
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, September 15th, 1798. 1
LETTERS for the British Packet for
Falmouth will be received at this Office uu- '
til Tuesday, 2d Odtober, at 12 o'clock, 1
noon.
~N. B. The inland postage to New-York '
' mull be paid.
German!own, September \fl % 1798.
Mr. Fenno,
Please to publish the following tickets
for Seleft and Common Councils, at the ap
proaching election, and oblige one of ysur
frllow.citizens.
SELECT COUNCIL.
Godfrey Haga Thomas Willing, jun.
Daniel dm! ti jufeph Mugt/fliit. -
COMMON COUNCIL.
Lawrence Herbert
Henry Drinker, jun.
Gideon H. Wells
Casper W. Morris
Thomas P. Cope
George Pen nock
Thomas Parker
Michael Kepple
Joseph Hopkinfon
Krarney Wharton
Conrad Gerhard
George Fox
John Rugas
Edward Randolph
Malcolm M'Donnald
Joseph NoKth. (Union-ffrect)
Levi HoUingfworth
George Willing
Edward Pennington
Jonathan Jones.
03" A young Man in this city,
capbleof keeping fiooks St accounrS in (TifFcrcnslan
guages, would engage to any writing bsfmefs, ei
ther by the day or week, during the
ficknels. Good recommendations can be produced.
A line direAed to N. G. and left in Arclj street,
1 between Ninth and Tenth Greets, at No. H4» v/ill
immediately be attended to. Sept. 14.
FLOUR FOR SALJT"
By the Subfribers,
Deliverable at any of the ports on the Dela.
ware—who have »tlb on hand at their tlorcs, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letter! by
. the pod willbe attended to.
Levi HoUingswortb Ssf Son.
[ august 28. dtf
; FOR SALE,
A FARM on the road leading to State lfland,
within four and an halfmi'es of Philadelphia,
containing 45acies in the highest Hate of cultivation
, —25 aercs of which is meadow, the remainder up
land. There arertn the premises, a new frame Honfe
1 and with an excellent kilchen garden, contain
. ing a great number of frit Trees.—lmmediate pofief
fion will be given.
! For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis*
No. 98South Third llreet:
| 'B'j" l * '
VV. Young,
BOOKSELLER & ST.iTIOXER,
INFORMS his friendi and wholesale cuflomers
in the country, who find it difagreaable to en
1 ter thecity during the present Fevtr, That orders
• will be received, and executed with all poffifcle dif-
I patch, at the
PRINTING OFFI E,
in th« ivhite building, above the Mile Stone, o«
! the Ridge-Road.
• • His customer« i" the city are also informed
. that the Store in the Cify'wili be open, every day,
p Sunday exccpt«d, from Nine until One of the clock,
augtoftip. dtw
This Day is PubliOied,
- AND FOR SALE BY }.FF. NNO, I lq,C 11 IS S UT-J ■> HIT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, prcgrefs and present state of
. French aggrtlhoA, n\tM a fkctch of the infamous
i. attempts to degrade the Government of the Ujiited
6tatefi,and iome son the la'.e proceedings
- in Cor.grefs; written the lad "hf April in th/ prc
- lent year, by a Member of the ttnule of Reprefcn
' • ratives. f june 11
-» j. * j-* itj. Mjuj\. r« / 4 1 /
BY Tiif3 t>AY*S RSAIL. J
Sfept. ij. i
BE WATCHFUL « ... : i
Night l.efori-taftj fire V.as * J
. teceffary, in the Veaf of the two Bajks. atnd '
"Tiad m«e cofifideralfe prtigreFj, -whua'it <
- was\d((co*ered by a woman, who extihgtiifh- '
•ed.it without giving an alarm.
From an official examination, it fcits.bepn t
found, that tipon an average, loai-of ]
bread is now imposed upon citizens fintn,
ounces toft Jiijbt! This is adding diftrel's to
Calamity ; and it is to be hoped, that those
who nave been gftilty of so great a crime, t
will be legally handled. ; P
0
Died, On Thursday, in the meridian of n
his life, of the prevailing epidemic, Do£W v
Edmund Hathzu iy. late of England, deferv- a
edly regretted by all who knew him. p
Yederday moniing, of the prevailing fe- r
ver, Mr. Medcef. Eden—an old and re- ei
fpetftable inhabitant ot this city.
Yesterday afternoon,, ps the ptxfcnt epi- t
,d<?mic, Mr. Thomas Qreonleaf, editor and w
ptTnpriator of the Atgua.' G
In the-rfirii year of -hef dgT", of the pre
vailing fever, Miss Margaret Dclow, se
cond daughter of Mr. Garret Dtbow. of
this city.
BURIALS in this dty, for 24 hours,
ending the day before yeftsrday—Mcri 23
—Women B—Children B—2B of the pre-
vailing feVer.—t -Those from Bellevue in- j
eluded. {
BOSTON, September ia. (
MORE " DIPLOMATIC SKTLL." > y
Yefttrday we had re.port* in circulation, ]
that the United States armed brig Sophia, J,
had been spoken with off the American v
coast having on board Mr, Gerry, and a f
French Envoy to the U. S'atet, Tra-
cing the reports, we ipuhd they come stage g
wife from Baltimore, where the person who v
spoke tie Sophia, and who heard the t
man's name, had arrived. We immediately }
recurred to our latest Baltimore papers. In ]
one of the 4th inft. we find the following ar- f
ticle: " Capt. Boyle, arrived yesterday from c
Bourdeaux, received a letter the day before t
be failed, from a vtry refpeftable and well t
informed gentleman at Paris, which inform {
ed him, that Mr. Gerry was to leave Paris j
for Havre in two days, accompanied by a 1
French gentleman, whose objeft is to fettle J
the .nifunder(landing between the two Re- (
publics." This article we, brieve to be the 1
parent of the reports. Let us examine dates (
and circumstances. t Capt Boyle, arrived at :
Baltimore the 3d inft. alter 70 days paffagt. (
Thus it appears he received the letter the J
25th June, which must have been written at ■,
Paris as early as Ihe 20th.—We have papers (
dire£t from Paris rfs late as the 10th Jcly— 1
which make.no m'eilticn of the matter. It |
.will be perftftly alt mode Je 1 alyrand. Di- j
vide to cot/qijcr /5 a French maxim. 1
Deceptivs iieg6ci*au'6n, and p e-i ]
terifions to eai.doixr and desire of recor.cilia- j
tion will be Frtnch praflite, now they know j ,
the eitizeni. of the United States are not a ' ,
" diviledpeople.'' God be praised, we have
an Adams fii ogr Senate, grid a Washing
ton ready to take the SelJ. Tile former is
acc}::ainted with the '• diplomatic
fiill" of the Fl'cucli-—lf three Envoys are.
sent,- he .will order them to, he treated exadt
ly as MefTr., Pmciney, Mcirjhall, and Gerry
have been tveated itl : But if only
one is feot, He will unqneftiona'oly cottfider
it as a frcfli insult, and.if. he (hould fee foot
on American ground, will order him to quit
the country as an alien enemy.
The Packet letters from England all ac
cord fn the idea, that the French Directory
deprecate an open war with the United
Stius ; —that they have heard of the spirit
and unanimity which pervades the conti
nent that they have received an agent
from the Jcfferfon party, advising to teni
porifiiig meafurts ; and 1 at the probability
was they would fend an Envoy or Envoys to
try their (kill in America.
The Emperor of Ruifia has improved up>
on the French Dire&ory's "prefa-gag plan.
The latter swear that French printers may ,
print ; but that they shall print only what
luiu their sovereign will and plpfurf ;
whereas the RirilTan Direflor swears the
printers (hall print nothing. It is astonish
ing, with what facility one tyrant imitates
another.
The Swedish government has bryn occefii
ated to emit a paper currency. In detailing
the ratlfes which has produced the necefli
ty, they fay, it is partly to be attributed,
" To the reclamations which the Swedes
have made, in vain, to the French govern
ment, for the sum of 000,000 rix d 1-
lars, the amount of the cargoes of the (hips
taken from them." If the Swedes had rt
fented the fraternal squeezes of the French
with Arhtrican spirit, they would not have
been left to make their idle reclama ions ; or
to deplore a Jituation., the moll degrading
to a nation—that of (traittir.g a p-per me
dium.
Rt/RAL GRATITUDE.
We learti with great pleasure, that a num
ber of citizens of Braiutrrc, Quincy, and
adjacent towns, intend g ving a public din
ner to our illustrious fc.'low-citizen, the Pre
fiient of the Ur.ited States, at the hall.in
Qjtinry, this riav. Eulogy on'this tribute
of refpe£t is unneccfiary.
COMMERCIAL,I.Y IMPORTANT.
A letter from a gentleman in London, to
a r-fptftable in (his town, dated
Tulv 4-th -nferm;: —,«• We bave had 'ome
large arrival; within tlitfe for days. Etgh ft'J
teen (hips fe.-Linglrgf to our Sail India cor, t'jl
pafcyXßif'tlte Wtd-Tujji c -flvoy, coi ti '
u>g of 300 fsil, have got lo fjfe. ' Whe f !
3 thtr this is considered as fuecefsful to pri j
vatc adventure, an accumlation of revem;
t or augmentation of its naval forcel, it is t,< TrJ
. Great-Britain highly important.
E:gbfeen young gentlemen were admit hjJ
ted :t> the degree of Bachelor of Arts, a pfl
: the anniversary commencement at Rhode >:
F Island College, on Wednesday last.
THE fEVE'i
We may fay with tnvh, 'h<\t the vi&fms $>
, to t!j< fever have not increased in ratio fine
pur last. We give the official ftnteme jl
of the Scleftmen of Mond y.. 1 hey di .\S
no? meet yelterday—we eriquir«*d of the f. •;!
veral sextons, and heard of butth *t bun [s
als. When we reded on the mortality whit
pervades many of our filler towns, we than), j|r
Heaven vrc can denominate ours ",the favtr £
ed city"
Official Rcprjrt.—Sept. 10
, The whole number ndiw sick is 29 O S
whom ris on tlie reoovirv. 5 have dir< J
Gtjce die return of th- 7th ,inft.
By orr/f as th. Selc&mcn. j
WILLIAM COOPER, Ti+m-Cltrl \
From C ipt. ■ !'t journa', S:h}on r M:r 5
maid, ftom Jerenlie.
Angnft 12, at 8 o'clock A.M. cape S' 81
Anthony ( weft ei-d of Cuba) bearing ESI. }aS
distance 8 miles, the sea very fmoeth, I rb H
served a fail b-at n-akiog from the flu.r H
towards us At nine tfyey fired a iwivi ■S
(hot above our hull: I hqifted colours, at H
hove to, until they came within pistol (hcrffi
It pro ed a large Spanifli built launch, wi' : M
lattice fails, 12 oa s, a cavrOnade, four fwi H
vels, and 26 men, under the French natiopn ■
flag, Afttr being informed from whem Kg
we came, ordered me to lower ray fails, a> H
give a rope for the launch I demand*, Ml
w'at he wanted; he said he was a pilot. ID
told bim I did not want any, and ordere §■
him to keep off. They dam' ed PrTf i H
French, Spanish, ani English, still callin. fig
for a rope, and mainned their oars to lay m E§
on board. I fired a brace of balls amofi t!
them, and ordered my helm a weather. Thi' |a
' compliment was soon returned with El
shower of swivel and rouflset shot. We wet ■§
' Jtx in number, had seven mufkei*, nine pis n
' tols, four cutlasses. and \wo harpoons o |
s board. A close and warm (kirmifh etifned fc
• during which thev made two attempts t. E
• lay us along fide; hut reserving the fire o l|
> our pistols until close on board, they sou. 1 K
t a reception different fr- m their txpedi ■
• tions. Being thus disappointed in thei R
■ fraternal anticipations, they turned stern to H
r and made for the shore as fall as they came H
» Our wrangle continurd upward? of fort'E
■ minutes, Cevcral times in w ich t : ey wer IB
t less than twenty yards distance. Iwasf<K]
- fortunate as to receive but little damage iM
- | having my (hroud (hot away, and my fails : H
'.j little ljjotted with mulketry. The greatfißl
•j part of the bjat's crew were Spaniards, IBM.
' ; nurtt6.tr of whom, lam Jure, will be no far ■
a ther trouble.
e Aug. 18th, was broujjht to, and hoard
ed by the fchr. Nancy, of New Providence fil
s capt. Broadwater, who behaved politi I
c Edward Brown, ading in capacity of mate H
e. entered on board the privateer, after uaviiij I
- embezzled several articles.
y Aug 24, lat. 28, 00, long. 80 10, fp'k-H
v the (hip labius, of New-Vork, from th.H
f Havannah, far Philapelp!iia— out five da y I
t _ SALEM, Stpt ik P
Cspt. Samuel I ownfend arriv don Su I
day from C. N. Mole, Wc learn, th H
while Ik.- lay there, the br gands fiom th H
y mounui'is Itirioufly aflatilted a pri icip H
d fort back of the town, and carried it aft. |
t a vigorous defence. It waj, however rita Dj
- ken by the British in a lew hours alterwar • H
t with a great l-.fs on tht fide of .the viflon, P|
ihe assaults are so fr<quent from the b' K
Y gands, that the town is aim >ll untenable |
3 a d the Britilh have serious thoughts of aln
bandoning it. Since they have been in pus N
leflion of it, they have pursued a eondti fl|
towards the American commerce by n> rj
Y .means calcul.ted to ens ire the advantage |j|S
t intended by the British Treaty.
7 alley rand's Friend/hip
e Capt. Silver, in the fch'r Sewil, arrive I
yesterday in 22 days fro n St. Pierre's. Mar H
s tii iqu«. Wfth him cam • pafftnger Mr. J I
Shepard jun. of this town, late mariner o Kj9
1- the brig Diana, capt. Walker, of B ilton K
g owned by MefTr . Gryer, and which wa jnJ
capmred, 15 days out, oi her p-.ff ge f R
1 Martii ique, by a Fre.ich frigate of 44 gun. fj
3 and 350 men, in lat. 34,41, 100/. 58, 35 [-H
- and »I 1 her hands (with th-crew of tti Kjl
I- brig Vul'.ure, capt. Walton, of Newbury '3fl
s port, which was captur d 15 days before H
- put on board the brig Ceres, of Boston H
h owned ,a]fo by MtfT i. G yer, but bei B
e l'j,ad~d with lumber only, was not confidn H
r ed worth capturing, as the pirate 9
J w died to get rid cf the unfortunate Am< H
- ricai'S thry had beforeciptured (42 in nuu E
ber ) Tli<y arrived at Martinique 15 d»y Kj
after they w'ere captured took M
far their 'cveral hornet in different v ffe!;. [j
J This frigjte was to cruif* »•> far l<? the north [*
ward as 38. a d then proceed diredly ti H
> France. She was fr< tn Cayer ne.
n Capt. Walton's brig was burnt immcdi Hi
e ately after fa. r capture, while he was beg Eh
ging that he might have her with only 01.H
topi'ail—the ihf«n>als were Inex'Tsbk 'l'h ffß
liri® Diana, was to be burst the next day as raj
o tcr her capture. The capt. of her had (a B
d ken passage in the brig. Eetfey, of and foJB
K•'--
ss* Remote Subscribers for this Ga
zette are requeftcd t'i forward pr. post,
the arrearages due from them refpediive
\j. Poi tmafters who may have receiv
ed fubferiptions are fcrneftly <lefired to
remit the lame. At this interesting and
diftreHing criSs, attention to this notic?
will peculiarly oblige the Editor.
Alms Hobse, Auguit 16, 1798.
GENTLE M F v,
Please tc. take notice, that are re
turned to serve as Guardians of Pojar
for the rnfuin;wtlvc months, yofl are
therefore rcqufilcfl to atter.d at th:- Ci y
Hall on the twenty fifth of September next,
st 10 o'clock in the forenoon.
By order ef the Board,
JACOB LAWERSWYLER. '
Secretary, pro Urn.
James M'Cfta,
Jbfeph R. Tatem, To Tuccted
Jam? 3 Glentworth, " Walbro Frazier.
Samuel Price,
Willi m Preftcn,
Benjamin Pricr, To ft'ccsed
Samuel Rhoatfs, Jeremiah Ooon.
Isaac T. Hopper,
Eazel Wcod, *) _ r .
Mmud Eyres, 1
Ja-eeKing, | Stand,ft Fordc. '
Peter Keyfcr, ")
Philip J. D-baas,
Sohn Servojs, j John Ware,
Charles Swift, - ,
William Alexander, / To succeed
Nicholas Pickel, f Peter Miercken.
Charles Baftio , J
William Holderntf;,'!
Jam* Stokes, To succeed
Richard Bailey, f Joseph Anthony.
John WhTtefides, J
John Hood, S
Jacob Gribble, / To succeed
Joseph Huddle,jun. l Alexander Steel.
Joseph Conrad, )
John Davis, V
-Joseph Simmo'ir, ' f To Cudcucd
Charles Pl'.ifantfi, 1 William''B-.-aren.
David Recki/i,' )
Samuel Gttliff, \
John Waddington, / To fucrprd
William Read. f PlurofteJ.
Wiiliain Cr»m<s»d, )
I>aniel B~ehm, )
Andrew Pettit, ( Te ftieceed
J fepti Walker, I Jacob Lawerfwyhr.
Jacob- Ede bom, )
f'ur Saie-
THE Soß«eiD«a» intending -o decline tit
DRUG *tii SINS.SS, offrrs For Sale, h
■whole Stock of
Drugs aoi Med°dnes» Inftrnments, &c.
'f,h "hop is elegant to n modi' a» i fuffici
ently Jfrowa for the cxtetrfiVr bul'mefii 1 ore n the
•whjl'file r,a i retail line the fituattor ■•■ pal to
any \A the city, being at the col ncr or Walnut ant 1
Second llrcr'u. The whole, or any par" of the
StocV, will be fold, as will he I suit the purefcafer.
terms may be known, l>y applying to
JAMES MOORE, jon
IVLo has Fir Sale,
y T ' V °^
W"et*4»&ic'*lated for the river traae —
The Peogy. about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame and remarkably
ft.out, of an easy draught of water, rgging in
good order.
Thp Sally, about 30 tons, fails*
well, and in complete order forthelumber bufifcefs
£3* All persons indebted to the Sate firm of
Gtldthivait (sf Baldwin, If. B- Goldtbivaity
t kin ait t*f Jkhsrt, or the, Xtvbfcfr «*r, ale earnestly
requefltd to make fpeedy'payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 1 §
WSTER BL1GH1"
HAS r«moved Ju« CoDntifig Hctufe to hw Movfe
ih the Northrrn Liberties rear Nice Town, iier
fliantowri road.
4x. 11
NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
Augnjt l%th, 1798.
THO?K Perfon# who h v Bi:ls to paj
at are informed,
That tegula'Notict» Will he put un-ier a sealed
Coyer diredT.i to the pajer ■' lodged
in the Pelt OiSte er»ry Monday untii the fctnr
of the ci.'izcns.
RICHARD IVELI.S, Co/hier.
Wg. 19 rift
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
Phjla«( LMIA, AupiT 30, 1798.
THE bulineff of the Custom Huufe wii from
t*;« flay be tranfa&ed at Chcfler, during tke con
ttnuanc: of the lever which new prevails in thi*
city ; and in canfeqn.tiee thereof, the nurctantf
We heraby rotiSed, that payment of all bonds for
/dutiie to the Unit«d St«fe», payable at this office,
ta»j be mad'; either at the Cutlore Hrufe ia Ches
ter, or at the Esnk of the United States.
Colleger's Office, )
Skiladeljjhia, Au?. :o. J
"* " fit -M OVA L.
THE OfEcc of the Secretary of tke Commission
ers for Carrying ii to efleit the twenty firlt Article
the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits and Naviga
tion, betwean Hi< Cstliolie Majesty iri the Unit
ed State* of America, « for the prefect removed
from No 54, SoutK Second ttreet, to a large two
{lory brick houf'e oil the righ. hand going up the
.©•rraantowa road, just ahova the Globe Mill, ufn
#lly «a!led Maftcrs'i hoof:, being a very airy and
kealthy situation ; to Wi.ith ptrfons liavirig clairn»
«• exhibit, or enquiries t® make, may come er
ftni with the greatait fafety. I.etters, post paid,
Bills and N<>t<H, tol>e«iot«d or proteflcd, and di
redions rt;fpe«Sing any krnd of Notarial bofinefs
inelofed arid left at the toft Office will be daiy
attended to, by
FETER LOHRA.
Philadelphia, angflft 30 § i w
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to fnperintend thi building of the
Frigate to h« loaned to the United States, is rrmo
ved to No. Ila Spruce (Weet—of which thofegen
tlemen who have not already come forward with
their fubferiptions will plcafc to take notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
august 7 '
To ie Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
Tis Cb*fnut street, xemi door tv lbs B*nk tf ' orib Amirica
THE L#t ii thirty by one h'liu.red i.rrd fevcuty
tight Ihe House has been thoroughly repaired
within a few months.—Apply to tht J'rinur.
august 8 5
[ tiEALTH-bPr tCE,
i lib September, 1798.
I *ELtO^-CltlS«N'S,
OUR adircft of tlie id tnd was in
tcnd?d prcftnt to yoltr vie*v the deplora
ble ftatc of our city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion tbe ph.'la thropy and ben va
lence so eminently chara&eriftic of the citi
lens ot Pe"i>fy!vania. The f.me generous
fe' tiinttitsr vfhich '/oil have display; d has in
fluenced worthy ar d citizens
of Bait more j who always alive to the feel
ings of hutjKinity,,.ha*e, it app art by the
public papers, to a fubfcWpHon for
thierilief of our diftrcfled fcllpw citizens. ..
We return them all the gratituoe and res*
pest to which difpofitiuns so amiable are
entitled but it Wecom- s ourdu'y public
, ly t» Hate that a fu d has bee.i provided for
j the pvn pose, upon the principp'. of a loan
in jnMcipation of he liberality a c justice
los our L< g flature, which precludes the
| • eccffity of donations in money from the
humane citjzesis of our (iiter Hates —Con
tributio 9 6i pr fri> ' our fellow-ci
tliens in the c. Ur.fry, as w *ll in New Jersey
as in our own State, have been forwarded
the use i>f the d-ftrelT. d, with a liberali
ty which does ho. or to (he donor*
We flit er "uneltes that similar donation*
will be continued by those gei emus indivi
duals, who are contiguous $0 the ci'y, and
«n with convenience (pare a part of their
produce for the relief of fuffer'ng hi-.manity.
By order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, Prtfident.
Attest
Timothy Paisos, Clerk.
New Enqainpment.
1 he Committer who iuperin end the en
campment at Madeifs place near the Mill
Po d 'in the Germantown ;! 0.-,d, about
two miles from tie city, refpettfuHy it.form
their country friends that they Hand in need
of aw immpdi itc fuppiy of vegetabh s »«d
ftr.iw for th ule of those dillrefled cititeua
wmo are flying from the pref nt calamity.
T e comm.tiee flatter themfclyes that the
fame liberality will be found in thr farmer,
and others to fuppiy |h|s Encampment, as
has been to h«t onthvCommo ' Schuyl
kili Wo h hav.ng tht fame laudable obitft
in view. "x
John In/keep 1
7-'t. Hubijon l- committee.
Isaac IV, Morrit. J
Camp, Ma r»'Place,
Stpte-'. bey, 10, '9B.
A »reeable to notification In fcveral of the
'H wipapers f tliv Ci;y of Philadelp! ia, K
qu Hi g a muting >f the m recants, trad
ri-i, mechanics and ' thei' citizen . at the
UnioTv -icli ol Hoofe i-; G rmant' vfn, or:
Wedntfd'ay 29th
M. 1 ord rto fix o' 1 a fui abje character to
be fiend at the ensuing ejediou to repre
fe >t ti'c City of Philadelphia in Cor grefs,
in thevica. cy by rhe aeceafe of
Jofin S anwiek, Esq. and a!fo in the . ext
Congrefs—\ senator, to rcii'refeflt in the
state senate, t'e city of Ptiilaileiplila and
County of fix persons to rt
pref nt he city in the house of afT rnbly.—
A numerous and refpp&ablr body us the
freemen of he city attenced. The bufi
ness of th. mee i:tg being opened, a letter
from captain J .feph Anthony, addr<{Ted t<
the chairman of the meeting was read ex
prtfling a decided opinion on the nec> ffiuy
ol uniting the interetl of the friends of the
conftitutioti and government in the che'/ce
of'h' ir recrefentative,that he coi ceived Mr.
Robrrt Wain- well qual Bed for a fat ii
Congress, and soliciting his fellow citizens
that his name may nut be offered in c >mpe
tition with that gentleman, wh® has his lul
concuvrence and apptobation.
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unanimously carried as
the Candidate forCorg els
FRANCIS GURNEY,
as ft te Senator fiir the di"ri<3 composed of
the C:Vy and County of Philadelphia and
uuntvo" r law-are; and as members to re
prefeut the City in a(T mbly—
Jacob Hihzheimer,
La w enee Seciel,
Andrew Bayard,
William Hall, Printer.
Samvtl IV. Ft/her,
John Clement Slocler.
The qtieflion bting put, will this meeting
fuppurt the foregoi: g licltet ? it was unani
moofly agreed to, and ft was a'fa rt cm
mended to the freemen of the City of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their support, ajid to those of the Coan
ty Kjf Philadelphia -n'd County of Delaware
in support of the Sena-or.
Ordered, that the minute* ot the meeting,
figncd by the chairman a d fecretnry, be
publilhtd in the newspapers of the City, for
the general information cf the cl^ftors.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH,
Chairman.
Daniel Smith, Secretary.
Germantown, 29th /lugujl, 1-98.
Pursuant to the /Jfl of Congress, pas
sed on the ninth day of July, 1798, entitled
" An Adt to provide f. r the vtluation of lands
and dwelling houfos a d the tnumrratiori of
flives within the United Sta-es,"^—CtOTICE
ia hereby givtn, that the firft meetinp of tht
Commifiioners under th? (aid Ait, far the Ittte
of Pennfylvani.i, will be held on Mondav, the
twenty fecofid day of Oitober next, at the bo
rough of Heading, in the said state.
C. READ,
CtxnmiiTiqiitr firft named.
Rrading Srpt 8,
To the Creditors tf John Dickson, 1
of Milton in the Cou ty of Nv<thumbetland,
and State of Pennfy vania.
CiENTLIMIN,
T.AKE NOt'lCE, that I have applied to the
Court of Common fleas in and lor the Com ty of
Nor humbtrland for the benefit of the leveral
favvs made for the tellet* of In! . Iv.Pt Debtors, and
that the court have appointed the )a(l Monday in
O .c.ber not to h>.ar me and my credit! r* at the
said i ourt in the tow.iof 6u:'' ury, at whi«h time
and place you are to attend,
Al. tan, 4th Sept.- JOHN DICKSON. |
Pass's TL rjNi.i, J1
In the Nam stid by the Authority'-f rae £->ns
irioiKvcaltit ft Pennl/lvauu,
By TII O .'4 A S M IFF Lf \ r ,
Goveriwr of the fanl Ctimmrmwei ih,
- A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS, it lus been stated t : i ra: by
the Pr«liJt nt and Direciars of the Hank
i of Pennfytvania, That on the sigh: i)r Srtor- j
I day the firft inilant, the Houfu nt>w oci-Opied by
iha faH Bank, commonly called Cu jiciittra
llail, was hurgMrioufly eutered by £.: mc villain,
or »ilUins unknown, and theretVom a consider
able number of Bank Notes of varioos rictrjp
tions and denomination. weii stolen and carried
away: <o ths intent that the perpetrator,
or perpetrators of so great a crime, and the
acecfiariesthereto, roaybediG: vcredandbrought
so condign punithmeiit, I have diemed it expe
dient to iflwe this Pioctaraation, hereby offer
ing and promising a reward of ONE THOU
SAND DOLLARS to my psrfon, or-perlons,
who (hall difcovcr tlae jitrpetraVpr, or perpetra
tors of the f:id crime, or any of them, or any
aeceflary thereto, befojrg.or after the t'adt, to l>e
paid on the cnnvi&ion of all or any of the offen
ders: AND I do fceiebv further offer and prd
mife A FKEE AND EN HUE PARDON
unto any one of the psrpetr'atoi <, or accessaries
afarefw" i of the apmiviflion of the (aid crime,
who (hall make a full and fatiefaflorv difdofnre
of aH the cir.etimftances relative to the contriving
and aecotnpliCiing the fame, and of the names
| and places of abode of hie or her afl'ociates, To
| that ftich aJKviates may be apprehended and
conviJVed: AND all the Judges, Justices, She
riffs, C»oftalle<, snd other Public Officers of
this Coraisonwealth (a cortfing to the duties »f
thfir refpeffivtf ttitiwi*') are hereby re quired and
enjoined to use all lawful means to detect and
bring to ju'tice e -ch and every person concerned
io contriving, or perpetrating (he crime afore
faid.
GIVFN undo* my hand and the Great
S j#l o( th- State, at Sennantown, 'he
(Li 8.) third day of September, in the year of
our Lord. one choufaud fe*enhundred
and fiiiiety-aight and of the Comnjeu
wc.lth thi tweniyJthird
THOMAS MTFfLIN.
Ey the Governor:
A. J Dallas.
fUtrcUry •/ tbs Gammanwltb.
L A N O 1 N G~
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
neiflicut, from Batavia—
About 300' tons of Java Coffee,
of the giowth of 1794 and. 175)5
60 tons of" Java Sugar,
In camufters—for sale by
PZTER BLIGHT,
who also OF.raat rox iai,^
150 hhds, choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum 111 hhds
Brandy iff and 4th proof in pipes, hhds. l
and quarter calks
Madeira is pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
ju'v t ■ «
For 6ale at Public Audiion,
ON THE PREMISES.
FOUR LOT 5 ou Harper and Keith's wharf, in.
Alexandria, on the a6th day of Oilober
ne*t, if not fold at private sale before that time.
One of these lots is near the end of the wharf,
twenty feet beyond'#hioh the water is two fathoms
deep, a!#ut forty feet ut three fathoms, fifty feet
out the water is four fathoms, and grows deeper
tf-.til it comes to the channel, which ia about f v
enty feet from the end of the •whatt. I h-re is
is much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
a-% wjiiu-C, may wam railing aDont a loot
r eat the end. There is in this faje ...1 half acre lot
fitfor stavern;. ft is watered, andanex
-1 .fcllent stand for that biiGnefs. Thi» property will
be- fold for ready nioney, and al og'ther or tepar
ate, as may belt suit the purchaser ; it lays on the
,ywer fide of Alexandria. which is now improving
v. ryfaft. A (ketch ot the ground mat b? f.en in
tfia hindi of the Printer h<.rco r . For terms at
private sale, apyly to W« Ha*.TJH«Rme, or to
the fubl'criber, in Alexandria. X"'
JOKN'fiAi-PFR.
i ■ v tawSw
ADVITR TIS E MfeN i7~
WHEREAS James Ccmmikc 6s * do. late of
t'-e lit/ of ni»rthints have
o-'e: all fiv ir e/Teffs, rtal, per(o''al and
mixed, to the iubf ribers, tor tie benefit of all
'heir crJfeitors, who P ail the said afliga
iiient within fix mo ths from the date hereof.
NO I'ICE IS HiiitPßY GIVEN, to al pcrfons
o arc indebted to the fsid eftafe,' thit they are
equired to make iojm.diate payment of their rtf
pcaive- accounts, to th Afiignees, at their office,
6j, Dock i reet, iji failure whereof aitions
will '>e i!! itbued tor the rec ivery of lueh deots as
•ire not discharged aeeardtngly.
John Travis, ~i
John WadAngtvn, !
Jnmes Ifly lor * I 0
Cornelius Comrgys J
avgutt 18 mwf iD
Territory us ive U/int-» states nartu-vjest is/ tie
River Ohio,
Washington County, ff.
WHEREAS a Writ of Atrachment hath il
sued out of the court of Cbitimou Pteas
in said county, direfled to the Sheriff of faitl
county, retitmable to June term 1797» at the
suit of Giiffin Greene, esq. against the Goods
and Chaitels, Lands, Tenementf,Effc«s)i, Rights
and Cretfits:of \fa Barret, f r Seventy Dollars
And<whercis, the said Sheriff hdth by virtue of
said Writ attached a Lt?t of Land ly ; »g in said
county, contai»itig one hundred acres, the pro
perty of the ' efendant. NOTICE, therefore
given to the said AJa Barret that ur.leis he doth
appear aruj give Special Bail to the Ajfii n,
Judpment will be entered by Default, and the
land above-mentioned will be fold as the' law
clireifti. Benjamin Ives Gilynam
l'< othonotary.
Marietta, July 30tb, 179?. iaw6w
Just R "Ct-ived and fur file by I
WILLIAM TOUNC,
Corner of Seui.id and'Chcfnut iitreet—and at the
Oiliceof tha Ed tor.prict t i6tn» ofadollar,
AN ORATION,
Spoken at Hartford, on the Anniversary of lade
pendence. July 4, 1-98.
Br. THEODORE PWIGHT.
Ship Cs° Insurance Broker,
SuM'criber, eneouraged by the advice
X of his friends, offers His fervic etoti e pub
lic as a Ship and Ittfurince Broker. H» pro
poses to buy and ltll vessels and every rhinp re
lating thereto —affilt in alters of vessels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cultom House,
procur np anil (hipping freigtJtj fettling Infui
ance and allotliei mercantile accounts, and have
on hand theneceffary Blanks and Stamps. •
Papers in foreign languages tranflatcd, and
i»fo mation g-iven in general mercantile matters
—From a knov ledge gained tiv long experieccf
of evcy branch nt bufmtl's he hopes'to be u e
fu} to those who please to f»vor him wi h th«ir
commands. SAMUEL EMfchY
Philadelphia, augult »4th, 1798. §
«, . i k - t»ALK,
The Cargo of the »Scbr. Sincerity
Bcnjirv.m .Vloafcith Mafttr., ffon» Ijagflita,
corisisi 1 of
94Fencgai- of Cocoa
40OJ) lb, of FJo»"a Indigo
210 Ba'rs ol Cotton
4 Packages oi Gdat Shim
By Witlings & Francis*
No. Eleventh lireet.
iuly t: drf
Notice is hereby given,
THAT* application will He'Aiads to the Treasu
ry of the L'nrei State*, t<fr TheiTenewal of the
fallowing Certificius of Jji? Per Cent Funded
Stock, (landing in the name of Jobn Carboncll, of
London, the said Certificates having ha n loft on
..beard the Swallow Paeket, Captain Kidd. from
Falmouth to .New-York
ho. .3.072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls. ~j
2964. I tie. 5000 >
10 >577 J[ d" 33C0 J
" IV'dhngf £3" Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. eo6w
FOR SALE,
>T TUI IVSSIHItItI, NO. XLKVXNTH-STRf IT,
iii Bags Fresh Cloves.
_ Willtngs £3* Francis.
jone-i-g. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWb,
SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chcliiut
and Twelfth-ftreets, <m the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
'nis:riends and wholesale cußomers, with usual
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, whe-re it has not made its
appearance tkis season, ncr during any of the
years pa ft.
Willi; IS
Madras and Vcntapaulem
Scarfirukers and Car radar ries,
of tlie newest and mod atprovsd patterns,entitlea
to th< drawbaci, just received,
AN B FOB SALE BY
Alex 7. Miller £<f Co.
No, 64, South Front street.
may ig. ' <
Doftor GDURDES,
No. 28, fiat-Street j
Lat; SURGEON in thewmiesof St. Doming*
OFVKH3 his fer vices p the inhabitants of Phi
ladelphia in the lint of hs profeflSon. He
flatters himfelt.that his long fucctisful experienae
in the VVeft-!ndia fevers, will procure him ;hc con
fidence of the ci'iaens of this city ; particularly
those attacked by the present Epidemic.
august 15 , eod^t
gr The SubJ'cribers have remov
ed for the present from Penn-ftree-t to Eleventh
ilreet, between Fi'lbtrtand High-streets.
Willing? (Sf Francis.
asttft > (iw_
Arrived in tht Jkij) Pennsylvania, Cupt. Wt L
-11 am son, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Cbtfter.
A Number of .GERMAN SERVANTS, men,
wtmen, boys and girls, iunongft whom are
Gunfmitbs, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black
ftniths Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntfsnea,
&e. jee whose time of l'ervituce is to be disposed
of on board the Ship, by
GURNET® SMITH.
avguft %%.
——» —■ »■ ■ 1 1 j ■»».
Bengal Goods,
COW ISTINO or
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Colli3 Maharaigungy
Cbintz Guzzisa? Tookercys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muttins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit tor the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogsheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on teafonablc terms, by
John Craig,
No. ia, Dock-Rreet.
j.yly 14 mwstf
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHK4NUT STRfET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
j»'r T 9 £_
Bank of Peuniyivanta.
THE 3auk of Penrfylvau i is removsd to Ger
m .ntown, —where the business will be traufafted
to morrow, in the Ui ion School Houfc.
JONATHAN BMIIH, Gafhirr,
September 4 5,
Wo T I C E.
Bank of the United States^
THE Public are informed that aftei the 9th infi
this Bank Will be'opened at 9 o'clock in thfcmoru
ing, and so remain until r.OOll.
G.SIMP«ON, Cashier
-e"tcm''rr 4 ' .
N 0 T I l" £,
Bank of the United States,
Augttfty.%, 1.79?.
THOSE perrons who ha e Notes o. - Bills to
pay at this Bank, are iuformod,
That 1 etrular Notices will be put under a seal
ed cover direSed to the refpeilive payer and
lodged in ihe Poll Office every Monday until
the return of the Citizens.
G. SI'.IPSOX, cujhier.
august il, 3awtf
Pennsylvania Hospital,
9 mo. 1, 1798.
NO' p irfon with an infe&ioua disease, can be
a,tin.,red into this house; it is therefore e 'T
ocftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
or ring ?ny such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailiag fever. Several rfonsliaving
been sent her* improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution .
S,n y in Q g r M r an^rs,} FßANClS HIG °' NS -
NOIV LANDING,
From on board the brij; Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubfetiber,
calks CI, AREs
7» do.' do of a fngixior quality
1 trunksgteen P^R.■'.iO!.S
Thomas Mu gritroyd,
No 11, Wabnut-Ilreet.
iruo has on 'hand,
White Wine in ha : Caft>
Sweet Oii of a iupeiior quality, in
boxes and balkets
Lunelle "J ,£ntit]«d-t«
Sauterne / ( Drawback.
Irish Market V WINE 3 in Cases
Mi'arty a lie' |
Mrd'c J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento ji, bags.
may eats
? w*mr Disc&rEßr. I
• A zirtaiu Cure for that alarming and dreadful Djfm
The Yellow Fever,
Am veil aj any oibtr dw*ertvs putrid fever, fever *wl
awe, and other invderate and complicateddifeafet % Avjjjj
nfe of the
POUDRE UNICHIE,
TfTTELL known and patente i in England, France,!
VV Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,!
where the mod aftomfhirig c«re» have been effeft-B
ed on pcrfons judged incarable by all phyikian J
In aTreatife printed in Loat'an, or. the propertied
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D late Che J
mist to.hfs ?»lajeft.y 4 there arc dated two hundreds
cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in a'l lind of fevers, plewrify, bloody JumM
rnvermle rleuttntifnts, sciatica, apoplexy, paralyse, yet-Jj
loxv jaundice, rhgii/orm, tvums in children and in groxi eM
persons, *bhites, chronical bead and JJomneh aches, btpa*l
ti.i aid nepbretical Or Jiene cholic, tie iings evil,
and tb* mqfl inveterate and complicated venereal disease. .it '
jj!ihcwife the bed preparative for lh« fraall pox;
and measles; ol the greatest utility for young a*
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. r l hctffi acy of this powder in ieveral of the
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has been in the yellorv fever last year, by Mr.;
Mahy, who cured several by adnnniftering only
two of the said p^fvderi, and loft not a Gngle pa- ;
tient 'which-he uad .-took to cure, as proved and
attested by the here annexed certificates, whose ori
ginal may be seen at' Andrew Hadfegs umbrella Jbop,
No. 151, corner of Cbefnut and FourthJlrects, the on- 1
ly place theftr powders are to b# had, with
proper directions for the use of them.—Priu tin*
dollars. ,
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thu remedy be-y
ing so great for so many dmtgerous difordern, any'
person wifliing to be provided with those powden>,|
will please to apply very loon, as th? quantity at ,
hand is rot very large, .and it is doubt lul if for a
l«ng time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
ported, thefr.crct retraining only ift the hafids of v
tire inventor, in Eur6pe, audnever being commu
nicated to, or difcovrrcii by. any other jjcrfon.
N. B Id the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der mull be taken the Iccond, or at Uai't the third
day.
We the fubtcribew, durirg the. late sickness in
this aty,i>»:n a taken the-yellow fever, applied to
Mr. Mahy for his median .ir.a, n re, we do here
by certify, that by a certain powder, cai-<-j .W,
Poudre Unique, we wore perfectly recovered from
the said fatal sickness, and from an experience of
the happy s.ftfts of the above most valuable medi
cine, conlider it our duty to make the fame known,
for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones,
Mylus O'Connor,
Jefle Turner,
Christen Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Ann Grover,
William Bills,
David Williams, carpenter,
William T Donaldfun, mail-maker.
Mr. Mahy's well known Plainer, for all kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
tion, No. tjt, Chcfmit ftrcet.
8 aawtf
ANOTHER S'lixOßG PROOF
Of the great and. unparalleled eilicay of
Dr. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Ie the ChW of
CoUgbs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions. •
Nevj-York, July 10, 1798. .
To Dr. Church,
Sir,
For upwards of T<t»e\t<e Years, I havejla
borcd under a severe Cough, shortness of breath
fitting of matter from my lungs and often of
clotted Blond, till at length I was so reduced as
to be unable to walk across my room, and ow
ing to the vi knee of my cough and the Ihort
nefs of breath could get no reft day or night.—
Hearing <rf your excellent medicine, ( the Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took 1 dose as
fcron as I got it, from which I found inftantane
011s relief, and by continuing it for three days,
I bleis God lam restored to-perfect health. As
I b'clieve you to have'been the inllrument in the
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I mult
intfeat you to publiffa this for the benefit of any
who may be in my fituatioo, as 1 am confident
it is one of the belt medicines in the world for
thofecomplaiuts.
I em, Sir, your grateful strvont«
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little liobinson-jtrtet.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepa ed and f-ld by thelnventorand sole
proprietor, £>r CHUUCII, at his Difi>«nfary,
Walhington-firett, New-York, and at' his of
fk<, No 1, South Third-iiveet, Philadelphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 111
William-street, and Stilwell «c Dtforeft, 168
Pearl-ttreet, New-York. Manciue, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexanjiia, Wil
foa, Wilmington, &c. Sec.
O B S E R F E,
As a counterfeit prepa-ati )U us this medicine
has been indtiltriiufly circulated thr ugh some
of the principal cities in the iTnited -fate*, ptr
fens are reqiWff«d t pure, afe thrm of filch per
foni only as have Dr Church's af>p intmentfor
vending the latue. Cowers, I onghkeepfie
Cli3ppel, Head .if Elk—Uonil and Co. New
; (eftle—Henjtfli, tancaftpr—mauveft, Brunf
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
%* Parents letters ( ToA paid) addrcfled to
Dr Church, New-York, daiy attendid to.
; iaw 3 w
.. . TO UH.LJiT,
Aridimmcdialc possession given ;
A Larg6 convenieut, wcllfinifhtd house N»
L\- it; High street, lately ecc upied b.v Doc
tor Wiftar, wuh Coach houf- am! Staliiee—
Enquire of WILLIAM sHFAFF,
• Mo 168, Bigh-Jlreet.
;u?y .?» j
ox bekPT~
ido Barrels > of C ef of baft quality, out
Barrels 5 up with carefar long
ico Barrels of Conncitfcut Pork.
50 Barrels of Conne£tiei,t Tonguee
.WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of fort
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Caflcsof Lifcon
„„|,«,
800 Birrels of Scraped FLOUR,
Too Barrels of Condemned, and
Boxes of heft Durham Mustard.
Fo.r Sale ly
John Skyrin,
Larnienberger' s Wharf.
m*v eodtf
rennjys i aula Population
m is h f S ivcn to the
Stockholdtis, that an effeffoient „ Sfc
; -ouar. 1. levied on each (hare,—payable on , K.U
■n 3°, a»'l the remainder in 60 day, from the id •
."ft. which they are receded to pay to the Trea
n °L l T p, !l at ,hc Company'. Office
No. J3 North Fou.thftr.et, agreeably tlthe tim«
above mentioned. Ihe Propriety, wil
reco!led tlw neceftijy of he.ng nthe £
wife th-• forfeiture of ,h..r share, will be incurred,
agreeably to the CMiihtution. 1
By Order of the Board.
SOL. MAIiACHE, JrrVy.
,u^st 7 (tuhtim