# # States, Philadelphia
Number 176 a. J
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
T*HE Subfcrikers beiaf the f* perfa* fiift »ainoi
i /JL in the U«t«rr» P«eot, issued bv ibcGowflur
, V vim* of the of Gta- >
, AfcnAly of <k«ifck«u. far incorpora ing the
iComp.ny-he»«b* tyenbk to ike fd J
• Se&onoflhe lai< Jaw, that th«y h»ve appOHitrd, asid NL
heiebv r'auel* a rueeiinz of th» AiWcnbett at the fixt
t; Sut MtfciG in tte Cuy ut Tbiladelpnn, or the thirty etg
fitft day of this instant May, tt ten o'clock in the s o t
forenoon, for the puryoCri mcmioned in the said 3d on
fc&ion, which is hcreaticr puolithcd for tW inform
4t»B »t ihe
Richard Peters,
John Prroft,
Matthew M'Connell, -
William Sbraff, ' In
George Bickbam f
William Nichols•
Philadelphia, sft Mn, i 79 8 - , ~.
Sefiion 3. And bt it further emtHeibythe autksnty
ohrtUii. l hai the tlx Pcifomfirlt named in the Let
iatL Patent, Oaall a» <oon as conveniently m»y be as- _
aer fealingtht fame, give fotice in two or more p ib
f; !<ews Papets in Philadelphia, one whereof IhiU 4
be in ibe German Lantuag ,of a time and place by
them to aooointed, no', less than thirty daya fiom
the-time of itfuing the fiift notice, at which lime and
place the said lubfcnbcra Iball proceed to organi*e the
said Corporation and Ihall cho-.fe by a majority of
votes of the said fubfcribeis by ballot, to be delivered _
'in Person or by Ptoxy, duly au:horiltd—one Pre£l- p
dent, twelve DtrtGors, one Trejfu er, and fuchotnef
officers as they fcall think acceSary 10 conduS the bu
iinefi the laid Comp'iw so' one year, and until o
her offitera fball bechofen, ind may make lucb be.
laws, rules, orders and regulations, no'. inconfilte:>t
wi.h the laws of this Commonwe ltb, as fball be ne
ccff.ry tor the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany' Piovided always, thai no person lhail nave
more than fitly voiea at any elcftion or in determining
any qucftio* arifi..g at fueh meetings whatever hnm
beraf thares he or (h- be entitled to, and that each
pcrflll* »>«H he entitled to one votefcr every (hare
Vy him or her Isei* ««4»rthy W numhci.
A Country beat.
BE LET for the summer fvafon or by the _
X year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
Hone, on the O rmaDtown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with (tabling and con
venience for keeping a carriage. For further par
ticular*, enquire ot Caspar W. Haines, in Ger- |
maotown, or the fubferiber, on the premifus.
HEZEKtAH HUNTSMAN.
may 1. aaw 3 w
A Watch Found.
A WATCH was fund last autumn, and hat
since been left with Rev. Mr Ennis, of St.
Mary's ; the owner, on application to him, and
paying the expence of repairing and advertising
the fame, may receive it again.
may J.
* J'Ubl AKRtV L.D,
Is the fcip Phaenix, capt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
a boxtsSiamois f hhd.Hoga Bridles, sit
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. 2 2 do. do. id do»
9 do. Sealing Wajt 3 do. Glue, and
Cream Cheese in prime iichefts firlt quality Red
order for exportation Crust
ALSO,
}aft Received, v»». I3illiuiu»v» CT
SO bales brown Ticklenburgi and hempen Linens
10 hal«' German Ozsiabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Heffi js
aj bales Polifli do. suitable for coffee and cotton
bags
40 bales empty Bags
1 b,le bleached Heffans
% package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces \4adrafs Handkerchiefs
1 theft Tapes, No. 13, IS, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
ajo boxes WindowrGlaf., 7 by 9, 8 by 10, 9 b 7
11, 10by n, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
39 chests plain and flowered half pint, piat and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking Glasses, affortad
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chtfl and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anahors, from 4 to i» cwt.
to pipes old Pott "J
A few quar. er caflcs Sherry C WINES
60 cases White f
000 boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
2DO small boxes Raffia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 calks Roll Btimftone
40 kegs yellow tlonc Ochre
15 krgs Pearl Barley
•1 hogflkeads Madder
1 chcU assorted QuilU
6 bales Writiog I'ape*—
10 chests Slates and Pei;*ili
ao trunks Mens* and Womens' Show
60 Stiver Watches t
1 hhd Coffee Mills
a do filhin; and blocking Twine
a chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Demijohns
A quan Ity of (lone pickling Pots
4 boxes of English Chariot aad Chariot Harness,
with plated omanunts in complete feus for 1, 4,
or 6 horfe«,alfo Whips, Spurs, &c.'
The above Goods are generally entitUd to draw
back, arj suitable for the Eaft-lndia market, and
will be f»ld at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT W KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
April 16. t&ft"
FRESH T E A S.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friend* and the Public, that he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
Ax his Circulating Library, No. 75 North Third
llreet, where he will be happy to execnte their
Order* for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, }
YOUNG HY3ON, ( T£AS
HYSON-SKIN, I '
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate term 1 ?.
Coffee. Chocolate and Loaf Sogtr.
April 13.
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby gi*en to the member* of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor and diftrefled
p-efbyterian ministers anW the poor and diftrefled
widows and children of prelbyterian ministers,"
that a meeting of said corporation i* to be hold
rti.rnthe I6th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P. M. ii\ tfce second prelbyterian church in the
eitv of Philadelphia, fer the dispatch of all such
bnfind* M may then be brought before the
koir d. ASHBEL GREEN,
Socretary i.f the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
PHILADELP HI A: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT 3, 1798.
For Sale, T1
Th. new and faft failing I p
JOHANNA TUCKER,
jUFrancis VnT!,M«fer, *3l
NOW ly.nf at Pine Street wharf—her length is ij,
sixty cigfitfcet, breadth twedty foeijzx depth ten
eigfe feet niar inches and bnrthen one hundred »d I —-
four 69-95 ton*. For terms
onboard, or
GEORGE PIUMSTEP, fai
No. 168, South Front Street, ne
april 26 §4' Be
JUST ARRIVED,
In tic brigOayofo,capt. Bingham, iromSt. Martins
A quantity of SALT, Fr
of an exccellent quality
A few grocc Sorter Bottles, new g (
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
tnquire of
Jehu Hollingfwortb tsf Co.
No. 21, Little A ater ftr«et, South.
April to. _L— 1
FoFSale,at the Stores otthe Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
cafks of nail? assorted
10 bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
<3 casks yell •* ochre C
1 j tierces buttled porter, 6to 14 doz each s .
London particular ) M a ,i e i ra Wines
India market J
! Teneriffe 40. in hoglheads and pipes C
Old Port do. in hhds. A
Empty CUret bottles ' _ j t>
Mnflmet* &c.
" aflorted for'the V?*RA,dia inarU« C
4, to, and? inch cable. -MJ -jh *f cerdage ) c
' . Writing liates, ink stands aad preft* p
1 10 purcheonjj Jamaica rum §
! 1 bale Teaming twiae C
160 bundle. lheat:.ing paper J
r—3-, TUB BRIO
" AMAZON,;
Sale, or Charter.
Nitklin W Griffith.
April 7 . tuth&f.tf :
~ FOR SALE. ,
| S;'r;S;:}Havannah Sugar ?
, 000 Hides
° Will be landed to morrow, at Willing* and Fran- .
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Active, Will
iam Williams, mailer.
ALSO,
b JjhffiJWThe said Brigforfale,
1 And may take in iramedi
ately after dlfcharged.
Apply to
j Jehu Holtingfworth & Co.
march 30. S
For Hamburgh,
* ~ j *"
DominicK Terry,
„ John Fleming, Majler,
Having great parts! her cargo en
gaged.—-For freight apply to
JeJfe (i Robert Wain.
February a 6 $ .
WANTED,
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for which
,y cath will be given at the rate of thirty seven tents
per guilder. Enquire of the Cashier of the Bank
lt ] of the UnitedStatet. § april 23.
1 LANDING,
Fram on board the ship Elixabeth, captain Paiflic,
from Batavia,
And FOR. SALE by the ruasciußia,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 capillars SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of Q APAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17.
Thomas Es? Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, Dock-street.near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
caps and saucers
Nankeens.- black fat tins and talEties
P»!igem ele<h«, choppah romalU, and bandannoes
' Ckioa and umbrella*.
Together v>Hb a plural ajfortnvnt of European
Goods— among which an
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Sd iod. lad and lod.naili
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spamfh brown and white
lead
English fcytbes 42 to 50inches
ALSO,
ess, H» barrcllsof kiln dryen Indian corn meal.
•♦> AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, tp be let, three stories high, fuitablc for
lw " any business.
i nd . 4 th mo. s'h ?tf
W For Sale,
a* THE SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHESNU'* STREET,
II Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonable terms on a ftort
/ credit.
Robert Henderfon.
, april 4 mw&s4w
notice.
lird '"T'HE Partnership of the fjibferibers, tradin"un
ieir JL der the firm of PAXSON & RICHARD
SON, was dilTolvcd on the lixth of the third month
last, by m*tu 1 consent All persons indebted
thereto arc earnestly requelled to make payment ;
i and those that have any demands against the fame,
are deGred to prefect their-accounts for settlement
to either of thefubferibcrs.
Isaac Paxjen,
Nathaniel Rithardfon.
~ Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 17^8.
ISAACPAXSON,
_ c Continues to cirry on the buiinef* at the usual
place. No. 10, South 1 hird street, where he ha.
r *' on hand a large alTortmcnt of Ironmonjery, Sad
dlery, Cut'ery and Brass Wares, which he willCJl
whol.falc or retail, on low terms, for cash or the
the usual credit. He expeils to receive by the fir-t
uch vessels from I.ondon, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull,
the a large addition to his present alTortment; and
willexetute with punftuality and care <uiy orders
1. from he former cuftomcrs, and hisfrienr's in gen
,m eral. HW4W
By John Fenno, N* 119
The following Certificates of Shares G
IN the North American Land Compa»y, (landing
on the Books of said Conppi*y mine nime ot
Dan el Lifter, of Hatkftey, in the of Mid- j
dlefc*, England—vl«. No. ai?l, representing £
13096 to t3inj, ten (ham—No. *110—13066 to '
1307j, ten Oiartis—No. H4J1 —130,56 to 1306?,
tenths-No. U48—115091. xijT»,tenftwei ™
-*No- *U7—l'i7.t «? M4*»--Amo««*r »•
Forty Shares, vr xc forwarded Tar London by ret °*
fh p Willifm Pern, which Men captured, tlw
faitl' iTtificatcs arefupp.ofed to be 101 l j for the ft CO'
newai of which, applicaiion wilt ks made to the
Bo*r4 off th« said company. "Vi
Daniel Need Li/ier, P"
may I *d6w ° v
LANDED'THIS DAY, <
From on Hoard the (hip Alex nder, capt. Broiirn, .
from Jacquemel, at Wilcock** wharf, about
80,000 wt; of fine Green Coffee th
in hogsheads, barre s and bags i ►sri
For Sale—apph to c ],
John Jflitifidii & Cl. ta
WHO HAiON UA.ND, fu
Oaret of the firft quality, in cases
april 30. S^t
" FOR SALE,
bv the subscribes, N<v t(i Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
J«hn Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjl ing of >
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Gu/ieydo.
HuraHumi Charconua Dorea
Blsie Cloth Tanji'os
Chint* and Cllicots Mulnul* „
Mamoodys Chef's < _
Maharagongei Pauia RVf».
Gioghitiea Multnul de.
Guzzentf B»u4» - c *
I Gorrahs Sifler.'oy
Piniafcoes Chop; a Romals
Sstgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persia is of various col. t]
Mock Pulicits -y
»oo tons SUO Asl
9®, 000 lb. PEPPEK. d
Willings & Francis. »
The Piece Goods \
Of the Ginges are now open to sale at that 0
comtnodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkf». of ele
gant patterns and best colour?.
February 8. dtf
Ross & SIMSONy
HAVE FOR ftALS,
22 bales superior MaJrafs Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft qr.ality
A few bales Baftas, Coflaes, aid a quantity of
Bengal COTTON i
Bengal SUGAR, in bag and boxet
Jamaica and> RUM
Bengal J
ajril »o
~L A Nn-i HG y
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta, l
and roa sal a by the subscriber,
r 1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 de. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods. ,
John Miller, Jun. '
. march 3 $ 1
£ TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene ( ounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
C ' Creeks and Ten Mile Rwn.
These Lands'are fertile and well timbered, ard
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years sgofor
five (hilling' per arre ; patested early in i7!?7,ex
:y cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178 ?. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Waihington, from 14 to 16 freni the
- village of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
I, On payment of one fourth of thiipurchafe rao
n«y, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
e ' april IJ. '
ec TO BE SOLD,
ies 26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safquehanna
now, or late in the townships of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
lhefe Lands, l-om th< it quality and situation,
ite are a very 3efirablr »hje(S for any man who means
to inreft his money to advan-age.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
nty, a rcafocable credit will given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April *r. S
-l, _________— —--
for Notice is hereby Given,
r T"'H AT application has been made at the Bank of
1 tha United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
[T) capture of the British Packet, Coantefs of Lcicef
ter—vi*.
N0.3 701, containing jlhares"> IlTued to Henry Ca
ort 3 7 °3 5 do j zenove Nephew&Co
I do. issued to Edwerds
and Co.
r 3188 5 do. iflued (in lien of
2918 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and Inglis.
jn _ AH persons concerned are therefore called upon
0. to (hew cause why new Certificates (hould not be
nth issued agreeably to the said application,
ted april 14 * o6Tr
n e ; New Tea Warehouse.
ent No. 39, South Front Street,
opposit c posT-orrici.
THE Snbfcriber rcfpsjlfully acquaintsherfricads
and the public, that she has opened a Store for
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which (he is deternained to fell o* rrafonable lerms.
. . It will be herconflant endeavour to give fatisfafliou
J** 1 to those who please to favor her with their cutlom.
, Country (lores will find it their advantage to deal
r ' wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice assort
j" them,any quantity wanted,and will allow a reason-
I f able credit ©n approred notes.
,r .. Imperial, Hy(on, Young Hyson, Souchong,
ul '' Hyson Skin, and Bohca— Also, Coffee and Loaf
' n Sugar for sale.
c e " Sarah Eaton.
r april is s&th.6w
Germantown and Reading larn
pike Road Company.
THE Subscribe * Cotnniiir«.: r* appMtr! br J®
an Aa of A ffembly of thiss-»Bear«.--.>lih ui
er.titled,«« An *£l to enable tb.-G#»«rn#i «|;1m! _
Commonwealrtt to incorporate CovHp+/fa
making an Artificial Road from Jr wPh •
U4*iwtua, througk o«rm»Bto«3ft J*, imt f
oi'Ci»el«ut Hill, "» tb«
tht Reading Road, and thenctto Reading m the : c h
county of Berks," hereby gi»* natice, that hSoks, in
ire provided as the law tiiretf*, and that -we gu
Nirill pr«ceeß to receive fnbfcriptions for the com- an
panv'* stock on the aßth, «9th, and ( oth days "
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of o 1
Philadelphia the T»vern of William Buchois,
in Germintown, at the Ta-«ern of Jac«b Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the ftl
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in tn
the county of Montgomery, cn the fame days, ,
►from ten o'clock in the' morning, untiHwo o'
clock* P. M. en each day, when and where cer
tain of the Ctfram flioners will attend to receive
fubf<ription»aecordingly. c
apnl 14th, 1798. ,
, BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W.HAINES, «
SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOG*N,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
Ib'AAC FRANKS. R
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOwER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun. -
ABRAHAM LINCOLN. *
N. B. Fifteen Dollar* to be paid «»«ach w
(hare at the tims of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt3>M
The Annual Election
FOR Dire&ora and a T reafw rf-ttmidhml
Campany if Phtiadelphia, will be «eld at the
Litraty, in Fifth street, on M.nday, the ;th of '
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when '
the Treifnrer will auend to receive the annual t
''payments. c
As there are several (hares on which finet are r
due, the owners ot their, or their reprefintativee, b
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a- J
greeably to the laws of the company, unless the 1
arrears are paid off o* the said day of May, (
or within ten days after. t
By ord-rof th. Dir.&ors,
BEN J iMIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
• April 7 3»w j
Just Publilhed,
• And to be had at the Book-flores of Messrs. Dos-
SOM, Campbell, Young and Oauxs*,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
! On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «• Bilious (
Fevers.
f 9*. vibicb it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&iceof
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa&« and r«fleftions relative to
the Synofbus IBmidts, or Yellow Fever, which
m has occasioned To much diftref# and mortality,
" at tfTHerenr -pcro4«, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
i BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felowof the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philoiophical So
cj.ty. Feb. i—*.;ms
For Sale,
THE time of a NEGRO LAD, who has a
bout three years to serve—He is perfeflly
capable of and used to all kinds of house work ;
ha* also been accuftomc-d to wait at table. A
purchaser rcGdiiig in the country would be pre
ferred. Enquire of the Printer,
i A P ril "• eod3\v
g * —" FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient Sores, wharf, Jte. situate on
)r Water street, between Mulberry an l Saflafras
Street*, containing in front en Witer street fif
ty-foar feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, tljen widening to the
fouth thirteen feet fix inches. These honfes
le have the convenience of a pubi c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatien for a a merchant, flour fa&or, or otiUr*
[j. who may have occasion for storage of good*.
Thu property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rath. For further information apply
~ te the printer.
April 5 mhwtf
Salifhury Estate.
rn Subfcriber, proposing to contrtft hii bufi
ia 1 ness, offers this Eftjte tor sale, on moderate
id terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
in, Mill, with two pair ot stone* ; also a good Forge, all
,ns in perft& repair,asare allthe Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
io . were lately built tor the purpose of calling Cannon
ft. for this State. —There are abou two thousand acres
of hand, one half of which i»nndet wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Kay and
_ Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
of to any in the world ; for not oue ot sixty-nine guns
ol- lately nude, although some of the 44 were bored
:he into 3a pounders, have failtd on proving. The fitu
ef. ation is very eligible, particularly for'this branch of
manufafture, and a place of arms lving in the (late
. a _ of Connecticut.and o'lly 30 mile* from several land •
C q ings on the Hudfon'a river,and having every advan.
J tage that can result Irom a plenty of water issuing
' from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
' r and which may be converted into a variety of other
uleful pur poles. The purchaser can beaccommodat
"J: ed with all the stock and u ten ail, and have polfcffion
E '" on or betare the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean »i me for going into Blast im.
,on mediately thereafter, for every pai t will bedelivered
be in good order, with some coal, Ore, <icc. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. |ofeph Anthony, in Philadel*
phia; David Brooks, Elq. one of the Reprefentaave*
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Vv atuman, oa
C. thepreinafes, ortotheprosfietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. a. 3 iwlf
£ NOTICE.
Jte r T°HRF.E Certificates of Six Per Cent, Deferred
ind X- Debt of the Unjted States of the fsllowing
us. description, viz —N». 10033, 10034, and IOO3J,
ion for 5000 dollars tach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
, ra . ftan.ing on the hooks »f theTreafury of the Uni
leal ted States, intlir name of Benjamin Waddiiigton,
ort of Lanover Hoofe, near Abcrgavenney ia England,
on- Esq. have been loft by the capture ol the fbip Uac.
chuf, from hrnce to London, in June last.—This,
ng, therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
oaf apj lication will be made at the Treasury of the ti
nned States for a renewal of the fame.
IVaddington & Hariuood.
1 march aa J6w
\Voi,VME XIII.
Madeira Wirw.
A few pipes «-f ftnt Madeira, fit
for immediate ttfe, uxl it * reduced price—lr.r
fjk by JAMES YARD.
Diftiflerv to Let,
COM TAt h [MS Till! t STl^l*.
VF cunums BjO gallon?—one joy gallrtt, »'•«
V .I -»;ee;VT
Bl>ni t, lii in eomplen otJurats <«.<*(:• * ?r d "•>
immediate!*. Alto, • bufhcl? of .
ginii Co* which were brou B fc« lot Itr above wor>»
and v»i)l be fold cheap. For iiirfh t niflKttU-1 en.
uirtrf U>«* M'Ct.ULjr, JJo. J3, S«ih Second
qtrca. wa< hii Offer \Var*koult, No £9, South
S ont Street. •
N. B A fm«ll parcel of ttiM Capper it for
sheathing or building—* few b >xe»of Tin one new
(till aud worm complex. tljat will bold 300 galtons,
and oue lecond Mil that wiH hold 450 t allons, for
ale—enquire as above.
may ■ 3'_
JVAn-TRD '
A Good Cook —also a Man
Servant who underllands House work. Nouc
hut of good charailer need apply—Enquire at
this office.
may z ' e -
MaJJairbuJeits ifylrifl.
By Order of the Honorable John Low Ell,
Efquirc, Judge of the Court for
the Maflachufetts Diflriil,
„ \tOTICE is hereby given to all perfom
X> concerned," That a Libel is filed tnfaid
Court by Chriflian G. Grutltnacher, late Com
mander of the ftip Cerona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andr«w Heius at agents lor
the nwnrrnf f»ki Ship, ,*?«inft sundry goods,
wares aud merchandise, saved froiii fait #»ip ,
Corona, wrecked 011 Cape Cod within ftld Dil«
trW\ OB the K6«h- March Uft—w hich jroodj,
ware* a*d uwrehawKtr, were contigwed to di
vers perfoni in Philadelphia, in the Diftii<sl of
Pennfylvanfa, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid.for th? freight said to be
due to the Libellants on said goods, waree awid
merchandize, aßd for necefiary exp-ncts paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will be had upon the atoxeiaid
Libel at a Diftrkfl Court to be boldcn at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth dayof June next, at it o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Majfacbufeti2 •**
Dated at Bojion, April j tawtf
1 id, >7OB *
IMPORIKD,
In the Brig Bbnjamin FtinitiS) from
Boutdeaux,
AND rOR S*L» BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in cases
White wine in half cases
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boies and ba&cts
Lunelle
Sauterne ( Wiaes in Cases.
Macarty, and r
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street-
WHO HAS BN HAND,
Boordeaux Brandy in pipes 1 I milled
Iriih market "> u :„„, „.r.„ "> to
Medoa, and Sau'erne J ' J drawback
Sherry wine in pipeaaod quarter caflci
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bushels liver pool Salt.
march 19 mw&ftf
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA WISE,
Old, and fit for immediate ule, in pipes, half
' pipes and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
1 on v«ry reaf® nabic terms, by
[ . John Craig,
march I wstf ' No. 11, Doclt Street.
The Go-partner{hip of the Subscribers,
' TRADING VNDIR THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Co.
> TS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
1 having againll said firm, are deftred to
r render thsir account*, and those indebted to make
. payment to Joseph Davidfoo, who i- duly autho
rised tofsttle the affairs of 'iie concern-
JOSEPH }. MILI.ER.
JOSFPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Store* at the corner of Market and
. Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire ol Jo
c feph I3avidion.
, april »6 w&slr.i
1 BRANDT,;
n The Cargo of the DaniQi Brig Concord,
* ' PROM CETTE,
T Will commuce landing this day, at Smith's ftre'.t
wharf.
j Sr.fE"'} Choice Brandy
| Provence white Wine, in pipes
; Hailtnuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raisins, &c. ■ *"
,( For Sale by
e Peter Blight.
• WHO AL SO OTFERS fOR SALE, '
- 200,000 lbs. Java Coftee, in sacks
f Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
,' r Mace and Cloves, in boxes
u 110 hhds. Jamaica Sugar
„ S° do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. cases
1. Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
d (uperior
,r april »8. dtw eoti 7m
S ALI PEI RE. ~
a
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Ft/her,
Mo. 13, Arch Street
d marclt 31 4tawtf
g
£ Joseph Ricardo,
i. /~\ F tl"' City, Merchant, has afhgned his pro
n> V-/ perty for the benefit of Jiis Creditors, to James
C. Firner, Samuel W. Filhcr, and Thomas Wllibnl
All persons who have demands are re
'> quelled to furnifh their accounts without delay—.
M and those indebted to make immediate payment to
J" the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignccs.
Jamtt C. Samuel IV. Filer.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march Jl 4tawtfCONGRESS.
t 1 . •
HOUSE OF representatives.
rm»AY, aphil »o.
Th? House having rtfohred itfelf into 1 committee
- ct the whole-fin the ftacrof the Union, on the
bill to (.rovide an additianal armament for the
< prote&ion of the trade of the United States, and
for other purpafes. when the consideration of
Mr. Gallatto's amendment to the firll feiSion
being refumtd, viz- to iafcrt 14 provided they
shall hot, in time of peace, Ije employed as con
royr to any port or place.'
(Continued from ye/lerftay I 's Gazette.J
IT being part three o'clock, a motion was
made for tfce committee to-rife.
This was opposed by MefTrs. Harper,
Brooks, Craik and Sewall, who were deter
mined to take the question before the com
mitree rose, if they fat till midnight; for* if it
we,«f i nhsrid upon again 011 Monday, they
laid they idppoied it would occupy another
week. !c was supported by MefTrs. Living
fton, Findley, Brent, M'Dowell and Macou.
They complained of being deprived of an op
portunity ofreplyingto what had been said,
and of being cosrfced into a decision on a
question upon which depended the peace of
the country ; that there would be 110 neceili
ty for adjourning till Monday ; the house
could meet to-morrow, and no time would be
1011. The question on the committee's rifug,
was put arwt negatived 47 to 39.
ft having been determined the committee
would not rife,
Mr. Macon proceeded to make some ob
servations. He did not think, that in cafe of
war, the loudest talkers here, would fee amongst
the firifto defend their country. He believed,
though others were less willing to plunge the
coun'iy in war, they would be found more
ready to defend it in cafe of danger. The ar
guments of the gentlemen from Connecticut
and MaTachufetts led direClly to war; for a
kind of fighting peace, Mr. M. said, our mea
sures would be too flrong, and for vtar too '
weak. If gentlemen were determined on war,
and would come to a declaration of it atooce,
he should know what to do.
Some very strange charges had been made
against gentlemen desirous of preserving the
peart of the country as long as possible, such
as being under the influence of the French
government, &c. but if thefecharges applied
to the members of this house, they would al
fe apply to those who sent them ; and could
so fti-.iiige an absurdity for a moment be coun
tenanced, as that half'he people of this coun
try flvsuld be thus influenced ? It could not.
Whatever a majority did, would doublefs be
abided by) but, in the mean time, it was
certainly proper that every man should ex
press his free and unbiafled opinion. These
charge! were hot made to have an influence
here, but out of doors, where he characters
of Uie persons charged were not known.
There was one part of the observations of
the gentleman from Connecticut which he did
not underfland, vis. by the information • hich
he received f. •m his donftituenfs, be befeved
that this house would be compelled to aCt.-
Mr. M. said he was not afraid of any com
pulsion from that quarter. And why did
gentlemen talk of compelling Congress to
aCt? Was this proper ? If he were to r be
compelled to aC>, of what use was it for his
condiments to fend him there ? He would
afliire that gentleman he would not be com
pelled to aCt.
It was objected againftgfcntlemerwthat they
fpokeof waysand means. He considered mo
ney as the finfivvs of all our exertions. With
money we could do every thing ; we could,
' he knew, do a great deal without it ; but was
the country to be led blindfold into a war for
the protection of commerce ; without fpeak
ingof the expellee.
Gentlemen were continually talking of
French diplomatic agency. For his part, he
cared not for these charges. He never knew
fix Frenchmen in his life. Congress had no
proof of any such agency; but they had good
proof of tha'diplomatic agfney of another
country; and he wished they had a rule simi
lar to one which is eflablifhed in England,
that no member of Congress should visit a
foreign minister.
Certain gentlemen had been so long in the
habit of acting with large majorities, that
when the house was likely to be nearly di
vided upon a question, they became angry ;
but they could not suppose that the method
which they took ofabufing the agents of one
half the country, and consequently the peo
ple of that part of the country also whom
they reprefentcd, was the bed for producing
unanimity.
At one time, Mr. M. said, it was said that
the whole ot these vessels were wanted for the
pi'otertionof that partof the coast which is not
fortified ; at another for convoys. If they
were employed for the latter purpose, they
could not protect the coafl. Belides, he tho't
the idea of convoying the trade of the United
States, was a fanciful one, and could not be
carried into effect. He hoped, therefore,jhe
motion would be agreed to.
Mr. M'Dowell wished to make a few re
marks on what the gentleman from Connecti
cut had faid/efpeCting the conversation of X
and Y, as to the rfivifion of sentiment which
exitted in the United States, which went to
infiriuate that some members of this house
were improperly afted upon by French diplo
matic (kill. >
There could be no doubt how these agents
came in pofleflion of such opinions. Certain
gentlemen opposed to them in opinion, have
frequently proscribed one half the Union on
this floor, and it has been openly declared,
that only men of a certain political opinion
could expert to be employed by government.
As to diplomatic (kill, he believed no coun
try exceeded the Bfitjfh ir their knowledge
of this art ; that house had proofs of itS hav
ing been carried to a considerable extent in
th?s country. And it mufl be acknowleged
that Great-Britain has a much greater influ
ence in the sea-ports than the French, by rea
son of their extensive commerce.
The gentleman from Connecticut had spo
ken of American feelings ; and said that fo
reigners could not pofTefs tlie fame feelings In
favour of this country with them. There
were members of this hot»fj. Mr. M|D. said,
who were Aot born here, who had given the
flrongeft proofs of thetf attachment to this
country, by having been engaged in that ser
vice which produced the Independence of
the country. [Mr. Dana explained, by fay
ing he made no allusion to him, as he kne*y
lie took an active part in the late revolution].
Mr. M'D. concluded, by faying, he had no
doubt gentlemen who were so loud in their
boaftmgs, would, when dangerappeared,coine
forward te defend their country ; but he be
lieved others, who differed In opinion from
them, would be as ready to do it as they. He
hoped, therefore, gentlemen would not take
the liberty-os representing others as disinclined
to support every measure which they think
necenary for the support of the country, so as
not only irritate members themselves,- but
the people whom they rcprefent.
Mr. T. Claiborne said, if ever there was
a time which.called tor har«iony ip tranfafl
ing the bolinefsot the Union, it was at this,
time. ■He l»o"ped tl.e committee would rife.
To-morrow being Saturday, the house could
fit "on that day, and the day would be well
spent in>-a farther discussion of this question.
It was now (We o'clock.: he wished to rife.
Th? (jjneftionon rising, was put and nega
tived 44 to 33.
The committee having determined 10 fit,
Mr. Gallatin then rofe—lt wouldfeem,
he said, that a majority of this committets in
lifl upon taking th.' queltion before they rife.
He felt a reluctance at troubling them again
at this late hour; yet, after what had pailed
yesterday and to-day, it could hardly be sup
posed that he Ihould give his vote without
makingafew observations upon what had ta
ken place.'
He had been at a loss to know whether the
warmt>«dif{>Jiyed yesterday by some gentle
men by the amendment itfelf,
or by thcmaniter in which he had supported
jt. Theamendment was in substance the tame
which had been proposed theday beforeby.Mf.
Nicholas, the decision of which then been
evaded, but upon which no reflection of this
j kind had taken place. Nor could he, upon
! reflection, and ftilllefs from what had fallen
, from gentlemen in reply to his observations,
I find that there was any thing improper in the
manner in which he had supported his mo
tion.
It appeared to him, however, from the ge
neral turn of the debate, that the great object
of gentlemen was to compel by fear those who
differed from them in opinion, to vote as .(they
: pleated, or at leafl to oblige them to.give
; fileiit votes.
He was juftified in that alTertion by what
I had fallen from themselves to-day. They fay,
, that in reading the late difpatclies, they find
: that certain unauthorized agents of the French
' government, in inofficial cortverfations held
j with our Envoys, expressed an opinion that
! there was a Krench party in this country,,
who, if the negociation failed, would throw
the biame upon the Envoys. And, said Mr.
G. we are now told it is our duty to (hew thjt
we do not approve of these sentiments, in
other words, that we do not belong to that
French party. And how is this to be done f
By voting as these gentlemeß please, and by
agraeing to pveiy proposition, however ex
travagant, which they may chufe to bring
forward. .
Nay, one of the members from Connecticut
infilled that gentlemen ought not to reprobate
oroppdfeany measure ofgovernment. Mean
ing, he supposed, the Executive [Mr. Allen
explained by faying, that he had said, minori
ties ought always to acquiesce in the determi
nations of majorities]. How that member
meant to apply such an observation to the
present question before it was decided, he
could not tell. The remark which he alluded
to, fell from him in speaking upon what he
(Mr. G.) had said with respeCt to the publi
cation-os the late dispatches. And after a
vote had b»en carried in this house by a majo
rity of more than three-fourths against the
publication, had he not a right to fay that his
hopes of peace were diminifhrd by this publi
cation ? But the member from Connecticut
had also in very general terms declared that
no men who were not devoted to France ought
in the pretent situation of things, to fay any
thing which might refleCt upon the conduCt
ofadminiflration. To those observations com
ing from that quarter he would perhaps have
paid no attention; but the gentleman from
Connecticut on his left (Mr. Dana) alfoftated.
that the opposition of members to the present
motion, would encourage Prance to pursue
her attacks and intuits upon us; thatfheknew
there were dlvffions in this country, and that
whether the people were the tools or dupes of
France made no difference. He went on to
Ihew that the speech of the gentleman from
Virginia was known there, and that therefore
he (Mr. G.) and others ought to be very
careful of what they said. He went farther,
and said, if he (Mt. D.) were in his (Mr.
G.'s) place, lie should n®t have pofietred so
much patriotilm as to have offered any oppo
sition to the present measure, for fear, how
ever inn®cent his intentions might be, that
slander might attack his character; so that it
is only neceflary, according to the gentleman's
doctrine, to ipread slander, and the person
attacked mufl be compelled to acquiesce in
any measure that (hall be prppofed by gentle
men of different political opinions. Did that
gentleman really feel so sensibly the voice of
calumny as to fuffer it to prevent him from
doing what he conceives to behis duty, left he
thould be thought by the. world to be actuated
by improper motives ? He would not give
credit to such an assertion ; on the Contrary,
he mufl think that that gentleman, conscious
of his innocence and integrity, would if in his
place aCt precisely as he hiinfelf had done.
He woulddefpife the attacks of calumny, and
follow that line of duty which his own judg
ment told him was right and proper.
And, indeed, he could hardly underfland
how any member on that floor could suppose
that it was fufficient to fhedhis venom on the
character of another member in order to force
him to be silent. He could hardly have be
lieved that any member would have supposed
those gentlemen who, from principle were op
posed to certain mjafures, and him amongst
others, so deflitute of fortitude, as not to be
able to refill unfounded flanderand vague im
putations, so weak and unprincipled as to a
bandon his real opinion on account of sugges
tions of this kind.
■ The question before the committee was
whether the power of grantingconvoys should
be reflrained in time of peace.
The bill under consideration was brought
forward avowedly for the purpose of pro
tecting commerce. It was objected to the
present amendment that it went to the anni
hilation of commerce, merchants, iailors and
revenue ; and yet when it is shewn that if the
bill pafles without thfe amendment, commerce
will be in a worse situation than at present,
that a war will be more prejudicial to com
merce than even the present slate of things,
gentlemenforgettheobjeCtofthebill t andfpeak
of infamy and of the absurdity of calculating
on pounds, shillings and pence on a question
of defence, though the bill itfelf is introduced
for the express purpose of proteCtTng pounds,
shillings and pence.
For what purpose, said Mr. G. was this
bill brought in > Was it for the protection of
commerce, or far the purpose of producing
war? His idea was that it was intended to
afford protection te 'commerce, and wishing
commerce to be proteCled, he introduced the
amendment under and had at
tempted to shew that it would, anfwertbat
purpose. He had confidcred it on the ground
on which it was brought in as a fair fubjeCtof
calculation.
Mr. G. said, he went upon the idea, that
when peace (hall be reflored in Europe, we
shall be refiored to the fame situation in which
wc were before the war, not that he.expected
full compenfationtobe made to our merchants
for their loffts, but tfiat in oth*r respeCts we
should be reflored »o the full enjoyment .of.
our commercial and national rights. The
committee had, however been told that the
•bjeCt of France is after the conclufien of the .
European war to fubjngate and deluge our
country snr"blood, i{ not refilled. Mr. G. said
he would not undertake to correct those wild
ideas. He owned he had himfelf no fears of
actual invasion or lubjugation ; but if he had,
what would be the belt Way of preventing it f
Are we to throw ourjfelves into war to do it ?
Would our making war prevent the supposed
consequences of war ? Will it prevent the in
vasion or rujn ps England, which the gentle
l man I'eeins to apprehend f Will it increase
our resources, or put ourrevenue upon a bet
ter footing than at present ? It certainly would
not.
B.ut a geatleman (-Mr. Dana) had infixed
that the grafting of convoys will not produce
a state of war. He has taken a position pecu
liar to hiinfelf ; for the other gentlemen who
opposed this amendment, spoke of our pre
sent ltale as a .state of war. The gentleman
from Maflachufetts called it a commercial
war. The gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
Dana) does not deny that the consequence
of granting convoys may be fighting, but,
notwithftandmg that, though there is no dif
ference in fadt betwixt fighting and war, that
gentleman rests his argument upon certain
circumstances belonging to a state of war and
which will not attach to a state of fighting,
before war isaftuatly declared ; such as that
the property of Frenchmen here, and of A
merican citizens in France would not be liable
to sequestration, that it would not be treason
' for Americans to hold a correspondence with
the French Government. But how will this
apply to the present question ? When he and
those who support his motion q£>jeft to the
granting of convoys as leading to a state of
war, it is because it will produce a worfeitate
of things than the present ; and will it belefs
mischievous, because sequestration and trea
son would not attach as it would do in a state
of war f If the gentleman would prove that
the (late which would be produced by convoys
was not as bad as war, he should have (hewn
t that it would not be attended with the evils
of war, and nothave dwelt upon mere verbal
or legal distinctions betwixt the two states.
It did not appearto him to be any great source
of consolation to fay, though we engage in
hostility which will make all our property at
sea liable to capture, yet our citizens may go
over to France or hold correspondence with
the French Government, without being liable
to punifhnient. His opinion was, that to
produce hostility in this way would be worse
than an open declaration of war, because we
should foft'er all the evils of war, without hav
ing either the power of punishing traitors or
that of retaliating by making reprisals and
captures in our turn. If gentlemen were de
termined upon war, therefore, he fliould wish
them to propose an open declaration of it,
The gentleman from Connedticut drew ano
ther diftindtion, which was, that felf-defenee
was not hoftility.Tliough he knew the laws of
nations spoke ofadifcrimination betwixt these
two states, he would venture to fay that it was
a diftinftion in terms, and n6t in faft. That
gentleman had also remarked, that to grant
letters of marque and to make reprisals, is not
war, but an intermediate state betwixt peace
and war. It was true, that writers on the
laws of nations have made diftinftions of this
kind ; but he believed the gentleman could
point to no instance in the present century,
where letters of marque have been granted,
in which wardid not succeed them. War,
indeed, has commenced sometimes by partial
hostilities, sometimes by granting letters of
marque, sometimes by convoys, sometimes
by reprisals, and sometimes by taking what
werecalled measures of felf-defence. When
ltnas not been thought proper to coineHW
open war at once, measures of this kind have
been carried on for two or three years, during
which time all the evils of war have existed,
without its being aftually declared. He did
not wifti to follow this course.
The gentleman from Connedticut 'seemed
to rely much upon another principle, viz.
that veflels, when under convoy, are not lia
ble to be searched. Now he called upon that
gentleman to prove his aflertion j to prove
that when government grants a convoy, it
was to be a l'ufficient proof that the veflels
under its care had nothing contraband, or im
proper on board. He denied the position to
be founded. And in every cafe of this kind,
the event would depend on Hie strength of the
convoy or the force attacking it. Convoys in
time of war have r.ever been refpedted, ex
cept where the belligerent powers apprehend
ed an open rupture with the neutral power to
whom the convoy belonged.
But the fadt was, Mr. G. said, he did not
consider it very important what was the law
of nations on this head ; because he knew
that the present belligerent powers had whol
ly disregarded both the laws of nations and
ftipulatians of treaties; that France had pros
trated them altogether, and therefore given
us juftifiable cause of war, and the question
was in faft whether we think it our interest to
declare war against her, or not. Gentlemen
o* both fides have said they do not w'ifli to
declare war. He therefore went upon that
ground, and if we take measures grounded on
the right we derive fromrhe4aws of nations,
which we know the belligerent powers do not
refpeft, those measures will as certainly pro
duce war, as if we were at once to declare it.
Why, then, said Mr. G. will those gentle
men who do not chufe to coine forward with
a declaration of war (though they are witting
to go to war without this declaration) tell us
we mean to submit to France—that we have
not the spirit of Americans—that we mean to
invite farther aggrellions from that country ?
We might, said he, retort the charge upon
them, and fay they wished to involve the
country in war, at the fame time that they
dure not declare it although they thereby de
prive America of any advantages to be de
rived from such a state.
Mr. G. said that no gentleman had attemp
ted to account for that inconsistency, and in
deed there were many other unaccountable
proceedings 011 the part of some gentlemen on
that floor. Whence, for instance, the pro
digious. clamour on the fubjedt of the late dis
patches ? Gentlemen go at large into all the
inofficial converfatious which take place be
twixt our Envoys and certain persons who
are laid to have been Agents of the French
Minister, and they then insist that the know
ledge of those conventions must neceflartly
change our opinions in relation to measures to
be adopted. But he would lay, that the rea
ding of these difpatclies had added only one
circumstance to the knowledge we had alrea
dy of the insults and injuries committed by
France against this Country, which jwas that
they want money from.us. Every fhing else
that could have any effeft upon their delibe
rations, was as well known before the arrival
of those difpatehes, asfince; for it would not
be said that because certain individuals in the
government of France are corrupt, orchi.fe
to fay there are parties in this country, or
speak difrefpedtfully of their own Govern
ment, that a knowledge of these circumstan
ces could have any feriousefl'eft upon the aits
of Congress. It was true these dispatches
had produced one eifedt upin their delibera
tions. Be/orc they were communicated a re
solution was under difcullion declaring,
" that under the present situation of things,
it is not expedient to resort to war against
France 1 ' which, after tfce promulgation of
these dispatches v. as postponed to a distant
day, as improper for farther difcullion at this
which could make any att necelTary that was
not neceflarv before they were read irr Con
gress. For 'if war, or war measures, or mea
sures offeif defence were neceflary, it was
not becaufethere were corrupt individuals in
the Frfenoh Government, or because those in
dividuals or that Government wanted money
from us. They ask money, we refufe it, and
if this was all, there would be an end of the
business. But the true ground of offence on
the part of France, the offence which gave us
a juftifiable cause of war, it we thought it for
our interest to make war, and which therefore
gave ui a right to take any measures hdwever
leading to wjr v/ 6 thought proper, conlifted
in reiterated depredations upon our trade and
in the refufaf of receiving or treating with our
Envoys expressly sent for the purpose of ne
gociating on that fubjeft. And those cap
tures and that obstinate refufal for a period of
tout months wereknown.to us befere the dis
patches were communicated. What do there
fore the dispatches amount tot To disgrace
certain individuals in the French government,
and of course that government itfelf, to a cer
tain degree. And why should the knowledge
of that°fadt change the opinion of Congress,
and induce them to adopt different measures r
Mr. G. thought that the gentlemen whp ex-,
pedted so great effects from those papers,
grounded their expeditions upon an errone
ous idea theyhad previolifly conceived. They
have supposed that gentlemen who differed
in opinion .from them, have all along afted
under an idea that there was attached to the
French revolution and to the Frencji Govern
ment a superior degree of justice, virtue and
purity, ancThaving once eftabliftied this idea
in their minds, they will fuppole that a dis
covery of a cdrrupt mind in a number of per
sons in France, will produce a revolution in
their minds. Stippofing also that such mem
bers had been actuated in thdir conduft, not
so much by wishes for the good of this coun
try, as by a blind admiration for the French
Republic, they naturally conclude that adif
covery of corruption in the councils of that
country, will work a wohdecful change in our.
conduct andiopiaions. • *
And alio becaufc*lfte communication of the
inftruclions to our Envoys, had fully convin
ced every one that the Prefident.of the Uni
ted States had, by those inftrudtions, made
concefiions to the full extent of what cottkl
be made by this country ; it is now expedted
that every past measure of the Executive (hall
be approved, and every proposition coming
from that quarter fhatl be supported by the
very gentlemerj. who may heretofore have re
probated some of those measures, or opposed
some of those propositions. That expectati
on, the expedtation of a change of copduci|jjn
those gentlemen arose from the fame fallaci
ous idea that because some gentlemen have
less confidence in the Executive rhan others,
that want of confidence has heretofore didta
ted measures injurious to their country, and
contrary to their duty.
Mr. G. then said he would take some notice
of some of the arguments which had been u
sed by the gentleman from Maflachufetts
(Mr. Otis). That gentleman has stated, that
if convoys are not granted, war will be as
likely to be produced by the arming of mer
chant veflels as by convoys, and that the ves
sels having been permitted by the President to
arm, no objedtion ought to be made to the
employment of public vetrels as convoys.
' He frottfd jttft ob/crvcthat irriotlior gentle
man was jmiflaUep when lie supposed that he
(Mr. G.) Was of opinion that merchant vef
lels had not a right to arm by the custom of
Nations. He had no doubt that they had
that right, and that it was ex'ercifed by neu
tral powers ; but this difficulty arose in the
question when it was lately presented to the
house, viz. that of permitting veflels to arm,
after they had been forbidden by the Presi
dent to do so for a number of years. The
right had been abandoned by that refiriftion
and the acquielcenfe of the Legislature, and
having been it made a great
change of the grouna taken at the beginning
of European hostilities. But whatever aft of
hostility might be produced by the arming of
these veflels, it would be a much less evil
than those resulting from granting of convoys.
The difference betwixt the two cases must be
obvious. When merchantmen do arm they,
like any individual who may carry arms, are
answerable for the abuse of those arms, and
government are not; whereas government
will not have to answer for the condudt of
the commanders of public veflels.
But the gentleman fays, a commercial war
already exii's. Mr G. said he did not mean
to dispute about words ; but if he called the
present a state of commercial war, that state
would be changed by the grantingof convoys.
Notwithstanding all the losses we have expe
rienced during the present war, it was a iaft
that our tonnage and exports have greatlyia
creafed, so that our commerce is now in a
more ftourifliing state than at the commence
ment of the war. Mr. G. then took a view
of the different amount of our tonnage-at dif
ferent peitods, and proved that it had been
increased 60 per cent since the year 1791 ; so
that he did not think our affairs were so des
perate, as to drive us into a was to retrieve
them. He alio shewed that the tonnage of
Great Britain had funk in ronfequence of the
war, from 206,000 tons, which it was in 1792,
to 19,600, which it was when the last returns
were made.
I nan adtual state of war, not only our ton
nage will be reduced, but every evil we now
experience will be increased ten-fold. Not
only ourrevenue will be cut off, but our ina
bility to pay at home will be increased. If
gentlemen think the question of revenue is a
question which ought not to be considered,
but that we ought to go forward without cofi
fidering any thing as to our ways and means,
can they deny that a state of war will not
only fink ourrevenue, but that it will at once
affeft our merchants, our seamen, and every
other description of citizens.
The gentleman from Maflachufetts tells
the committee that though we preserve the
present state of things, France will not permit
os to trade to Holland, Spain, the Italian
ports or the Hanfe Towns, and that she will
continue to capture our veflels upon frefh pre
tences. If that gentleman does believe, that
unless we. do take some aitive measures,
France will not permit us to trade with these
places, but that she will add to aggreflions al
ready committed, by capturing all our veflels,
then we must declare war. It is poflible, per
haps probable, that this event may take
place ; but they ought to aft upon exifling
circumstances, and not upon conjedture only.
But the gentleman from Maflachufetts went
farther, and said, that from the nature of our
exports, that France could not, in time of war,
shut the port&of Spain, Holland, the Italian
ports, and the Hanfe Towns; so that, ac
cording to his dodtrine, in time of war, we
should have a better chance to carry our pro
duce to those countries under the influence of
France, than at .present. [Mr. Otis ex
plained.] The fame gentleman also stated,
°i ur trac ' e was t0 be convoyed by Bru
tifh (hips, the expence mull be borne by tht
citizens of this country ; and that, therefore
aS we " our own convoys in the
firft instance—But lie would ask that gentle
man, whether, in c»fe of war, our 12 fhipi
were likely to give a better protettion to com.
merce than the immense navy of Great Bri
tain, and whether therefore that event would
not render British convoys still more necefTary,
and give to the "British shipping the most de
cided advantage over our navigation ?
But it was stated, that he and those wKo
voted with him were willing to defend the
foil, but would give up the property of our
citizens on the ocean. He was witling w
give this species of property all the protects
on we have it in our power to give, and if hie
believed that the present stare of things wa. a,
bad as war, war, heWild immediately ,
abandon his amendment. In such a cafe, he
would do all he could to protect our trade by
armed veifels. In 1775, Congress gave that
protection; and in tune of war, he should be
ieady to give it ; but to grant a convoy in the'
present (late of things, would be in lirs opini.
0n,,t0 injure the merchants and sailors, and
not to serve them.
Mr. G. then apologized for the manner in
which he had replied to the obfervatious made
011 that day. Compelled to fit without inter
ruption to so Jate an hour, (it was then near -
o'clock) exhausted as his faculties must be'
and under a necessity of angering immediate!
ly the.ipeeches of gentlemen who had occu
pied the whole fitting, he had it pot in his
power to arrange his arguments as he might '
have wished, but he could only remarkon
the obfervatious of those gentlemen just as
they happened to occur to his mind.
iMuch had been fa id on the motives and
conduit of those gentlemen who supported
the amendment. Much illiberal and un
founded abufc had been poured upon them
and particularly upon him. It was well
known that having never conceived personal
abuse as a fit topic for this houfe.oras a ground
of'argument any where, he had uniformly
treated it with that lilent contetnpt it deserv
ed. So far as related to thofe'vague, and ge
neral imputations which had been made, he
would ffill neat them in that maimer, he
would not condescend to enter into a
cation against charges of so loose a nature.
But he would, for onetf, make a few observa
tions en those. attacks where the .member to -i
his right (Mr. Allen) had ventured to make
any thing like a fpecific charge.
In the firft place, he had stated, that A num
ber of members of Congress, in the year'l794,
were willing, at that time, to take much high
er ground than at present. The gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Madison) was charged
with faying, that he had no hopes from nego
ciation, and that therefore it was necefTary t»
adopt measures for cuirfelves ; and from the
manner in .which this was quoted, it might
be supposed, that the question re
fpedt to obtaining redress for captures, and.
that Mr. Madison had dclared that if redress
could not fee had by negociation, it mu ft be
had by force. What, said he, was the ques
tion then nndereonfideration > It was a ques
tion of commercial regulation, which did not
relate to any infringement of our neutral
rights, but which had application altogether
to a state of peace. The British having made
certain commercial regulations, the question
then debating, was one intended tocoiinteraft
the effeft of those regulations. And it was
said, that no hopes were entertained that by
negociation Great-Britain would recede from
the steps she had tak«t; -and thtrrti ere fore the
imly way to counters# was by adopting coun
ter regulations ourselves. And the fa£t prov
ed that those gentlemen wete right ; Great-
Britain had not weeded, and the British trea
ty contained stipulations which went to pre
vent Congress from making, in future., any
such regulations as were then proposed.'
Another gentleman fiom Virginia (M. Ni
cholas) was eharged by the fame gentleman
with having thought differently with refpeft
to the advantages derived by this country
from the carrying trade, when the depredati
ons of Great-Britain and Algiers, were under
consideration. On the contrary, if the con
duct of that gentleman was examined, it
would be found, that he was always opposed
to measures which, in their effects, might lead
to war. If the conduit of the two parties in
the hotife, at that time was looked into, it
would be found that the gentlemen who now
opposed war against France, had opposed it
against England at that time, that they had a
dopted only such Ineafures as in their opini
on would induce or compel Great-Britain to
change her conduct, without the neeedity of
recurring to war : such a? a suspension of
commercial intercourse ; but at that fme
those gentlemen did not threaten vai nor
were they in favor of provisional armies,
naval armaments, arming .merchantmen*
granting convoys, or any other war mea
sure whatever.
The member of Connefticut had also re
presented him as opposed to the proclamation
of neutrality of she Prr-fiJi m, *and as a Tup
porter.of the meafureJ'of the French niimiter
Mr. Genet. [Mr. Allen said he spoke of the
French party in this country being always ®p
pofed. to it, and not him in particular. ] Mr.
G. said Mr. A. might now unlay what lie'had
stated yesterday. But indeed had the remark
only fallen from him, he-did not believe that
he would have noticed it. But it was ndt4ie
■alone who had referred to this.' oppofitios.
The gentleman frdm S. Carolina (Mr. Har
per) had entertained the house for some time
011 the fame fabject, on a former occa(i»n,
and insisted upon It that the fame ggntlemen
who wish now to preserve peace, when we
had a dispute with Great-Britain, were all in
favour of war; and with refpeit to the pro
clamation of neutrality, the gentleman from
S. Carolina aflerted, that though gentlemen
firft were violently opposed to it, yet, when
(Tongrefs met ibme time afterwards, the peo
ple having in the mean time shewn their ap
probation of the measure, they dared not ex
press their disapprobation with the conduit
of the Executive. This fhewsthat neither of
the gentlemen are acquainted with facts ; be
cause the public records of the country will
give a direit contradiction to their allerttorcs.
In 1793, when M. Genet arrived in this
country, and took such steps as went to an in
fringement of our neutral rights, and the Pre
sident issued his Proclamation of Neutrality,
the firft public b>dy which met afterihat pe
riod was the Legislature of Pennfvlvania (ot
which he was then a member) and he must he
permitted to fay, that this Legislature was
(what gentlemen term) a very Jacobinic bo
dy. No better proof, he supposed, could be
given of this than that they elected him (<y ri
G.) a Senator of the United States. Tins le
gislature met before it could be ascertained
what was the public voice, and the nn' tlung
they did was to present an address to the Go
vernor, exprelTing their unanimous approba
tion of the conduct of the prudent of the
United States, with refpedt to his Proclama
tion of Neutrality, a"d all she other steps he
had taken in support of thit neutrality, name
ly, the preventing French privateers from
being fitted in our ports, and the seizure and
reftoratioii of prizes Tn«de by those privateers.He would add, that that part s( Ac address,- j
which he read, was drawn by himfelf. The 1 i
Go-vernor of Pennsylvania, whom gentlemen I c
vtfll also doubtlels term a Jacobin) fortified { S
Mud Island during the recess of the Legifla- I 1
ture, in order to carry into effeft the mea- )
fures'of the Executive, borrowing money for i 1
the purpose on his own private credit, and f
the fame Legislature approved his conduit c
and made the neceflary appropriations. Be- f
fore gentlemen indulged themselves in ma
king these charges, tliey should take a little
,pains to n\ake themselves acquainted with •
facts* for he was persuaded that their preju
dices were in a great degree to be alcribed to I
their wjntoif information.
As to the general charge of the wish of those I
who supported the amendment meant to sub
mit to the claims of the French Republic, he
would Cay, that to submit to those claims, or
to recognize theth would be degrading ; but
that to fuffer the present date of things to
continue, was a temporising measure, dicta
ted under the present ctrcumftances by the
founded policy Tt is true that the aggrefli
ons received from the French, exceed every
thing which has taken place during the
course of the war; but on the other hand
every day draws nearer the period when war
jjiuft have an end in Europe. This confeder
ation, with him, outweighed the great extent
of depredations which might otherwise induce
him to take a different line of conditdt. If in
1793, or 1794, depredations had been made
to their present extent,it might have been tho't
better to have become parties in the war,
than to remain neutral. We wire jufiified
for not doing so at that time, from the depre-
more confined. The depreda
tions were now much greater, but the period
farwh : ch the war could continue, had become
much shorter. When he considered thegrow
ing resources of this Ctfuntrjfc, which, if we
can elcape war, will everyday improve ; when
he considered tlwt our wealth and population
were increasing beyond calculation, he con
feffed it was. with r,igat reluctance he aban
doned the Jjjd hope of prcferving peace. He
considered that the event of war mud be the
hfcfs of that property which they were propo
fuig to protect; the loss of our commerce, of
our tonnage, the ruin of our merchants, and
the abandonment of our sailors. The natural
•tonfequence muftb'ethat tbelofsof-ourreven
ue must be ftipported by heavy taxes on our
lands and internal consumption, and the ex
pences of the war must be supported by loans
borrowed at an interefl proportioned to the
wants of the country, so that our debt will be
increased in propoition to our efforts to pro
tect our commerce in time of war, that is to
fay, in proportion to the increase ofjour navy,
. the effects of which would be felt tor a long
time after the war Ihould cease. Taking all
these things into conlideration, he would ra
ther bear the captures now rriade of our pro
perty —he would rather fee a total want of
Bijjtifh manufaitures, and .abandon that part
of. onr trade, than take measures which will
not only be war, but worse than war.
Under these considerations it was that he
proposed the present amendment ; if it was
not carried, he certainly should submit to the
decisions of a majority. It would remain
>»ith the President to apply the force as he
jhall think fit; but when an amendment was
proposed, the object of which was to prevent
war, he did not expeft to be charged with
■wishing to submit to the surrender of the in
dependence of the country. If he had pro
posed to pay the money which the agents of
the French government demanded, or to re
coenize by treaty the unjuftifiable violations
oflhejaw of nations made by that <-«uttJxyT
or have refufed to have taken measures for
pur defence, there might have been some
ground for the charge. Indeed as long as
gentlemen declined proposing a declaration of
■war, they had no right to make the charge.
For while no such proportion was made, he
and those who supported his amendment
might retortypon gentlemen, and fay, " You
fay France has given 11s jultifiable cause of
•war, and yet you maan to fubmife and will
not deplare war."
He must (uppofe therefore, that gentlemen
opposed this amendment because they did not
believe that to employ these veflels as con
voys would destroy every hope of peace. He
acknowledged peace was not altogether in our
power. France might declare war to-mor
row, or give an order to seize all our veflels ;
but so long as the fact was not so, it cannot
be denied that there is some hope that the
itate of peace may not be broken ; to preserve
that hope he urged his amendment.
Mr. G. concluded with faying that not
withstanding all the violent charges and per
sonal abuse which had been made against him
it would produce no difference in his manner
of acting, neither prevent him from speaking
against any measure which he thought injuri
pus.to the public interefl, nor on the' other
hand inflame his mind so as to induce him to
Oppose measures which he might heretofore
have thought proper. Neither afear of slan
der, norof violent attacks in that House, nor
even of that compulGoa threatened by the
" member from Connecticut, fhoultj ever pro
duce any change in his votes or in his cdn
-.-dutt.
The queflion was put, and the amendment
negatived, 49 to 34-
—■ll n"«
• The articles which follow are copied from Eajl-
India Papers, received by the ship Harmony.
from Calcutta, arrived at New-York.
CALCUTTA, Oflober 4.
The Levee at the Government House win
yesterday very numerously ,itterjded. Major
General Sir James Craig, and several other mil
itary officers of rank wei*e present.
A relief of the native corps of the Bengal
army, is expected to take plaee this season.
We hear that generals Morgan, Duff, and
Jones, intending to return to Europe this season,
have already taken their pafTage on board the
honorable company's ship Thurlow, captain
"J horofon.
Doifior Balfour, we nnderftand, also propof
ti to embark for E«mpe this season, and has
taken his pafTage on board the Rose, captain
Gra*.
On ThurWay lift, official notification was re
ceived by government, from the company's re
sident at Lueknow, of the death of his highness
Afoph ud Dowlah, the Nsbob Vizier, onThurf
day the twenty firft ultimo. The dispatch was
• read at'the council board on Saturday, when
forty-nine guns, being the number of the years
of his highneft' age, were fired, funeral-wife
from the ramparts of Fort Williamj in com
memoration of his demise.
At noon, on the following day, aroyalfalute
wis discharged from the garrison, in celebration
ps the acceffton of Mirza Vizier Ally, to the
government of his lately father.
On the accession of Afoph ud Dowlah, the
late Vizier, Tiir.ur Shaw, then king of Cabs',
preferred a fort of cU'tm to the Vizierat for his
tldeft son, Humaion Shaw, as a' MnfTulmatin
Prince, nearly relatedtn the king of Delhi. The
eonfangu'mity was in riiis degree.
Ahmed Shaw, the father of Titunr, m rried
a filler of Shaw Alum, the king of Delhi,, of ;
which anier. T'rror Shaw w>« tbe elded mali
iflue. FrotiWtM* litres' defcerrf, sprang Humai
on Shaw, and the p-efent celebrated Zemaun
Shaw, who are thus the gr.ind nephews of Skaw
Alom, the present unfortunate kl-ijj of Delhi.
' Humaion Shaw, as we some where formerly
had occaftoji to notice, was deposed asd impri
soned by hi? brother Zemaup Shaw, who fuc
cefsfntly usurped the government of the exten
sive countries of CabulfUn.
M rza Ally, the newly appointed Vizier, is a
youth of about eighteen years of age, of very
promising disposition. His mother has beets
dead some years ; since which t me he has
under the management of the Begum, mother
of the late Nabob.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 2.
Lad evening arrived here from Leith,
which Ihe left the 3d of March, the (hip
Edenburgh Packet, Capt. Ablin—fpoke
no veficls.
TO convince onr enemies the French
that we are NOT " a divided people," even
after all the abominable outrages and insults
we have received—THE YOUNG MEN
of this city are invited, and their Bleeding \
country calls upon them to aflemble and ex
press their wilh and determination to be in
readittefs at a moments warning, to support
our government, and maintain its indepen
dence. The YOUTH, therefore, who
wish to give the lie to he assertions 01 the
French government that we are a base, de
graded and abject nation, will attend at
Gautier's Assembly .Room. Wm. Street,
on Saturday Evening next, at 7 o'clock.
NORFOLK, April 26.
Yesterday arrived in Hampton Roads the
brig Sifters, capt. Simon, 44 days from,
Guernfey.bonnd to city point. Bri*gj no
thing new.
March 12, in lat. 49 8, long. 6 46, spoke
the ship Mount Vernon, of Alexandria.
April 14, long. 59:30, fqoke
the (nip John and Elizabeth, 66 days from
the Isle of France bound to Boston.
April 19, in lat. 31:13, long. 67, spoke
the schooner Friendship, of New-York,
bottnd to Cape Francois.
Yesterday also arrived the schooner Eve
lina, cajJt. Cook, 20 days from Antigua.
We have received papers to the 3d of April
from which the following are the most ma
terial extracts.
St. JOHN's, (Antigua), April 3.
An alarm was fired yesterday evening,
which has proved to be for his Majesty's (hip
Matilda, with an American (hip and schoo
ner, and 2 French privateers a brig of 16
guns and a (loop -of 10 gun 9. —The Ame
rican (hip was bound to Guadaloupe,
with French property; and paflengers.
We are assured that 18 fail of American
veflels have been taken within these few
days, and carried into St. Martins.
We have been very obligingly favoured
with the following extraft from a Log book
of tile Dauifii bjjg, called the Adventure
which failed from Cadiz on the 2d of Feb
ruary and was sent into St. Kitts on Satur
day last by the Requin.
" February 6th, the Spauifh fleet failed
from Cadiz, confiding of 28 fail of the Line,
five of which were three Deckers, the fame
fleet returned to Cadiz on the 13th, and on
the 14th Lard St. Vincent with his whole
fleet consisting of 22 fail anchor'd off the
Harbour.
The Scipio privateer of 26 guns, one of
the lagged and rood fortunate veffelsof that
class belonging to the.enemy, was lately ta
ken by one ot his Majesty's (hips, as was
also a schooner privateer of 14 guns.—
These Veflels had both separate commissions
for capturing all Americans. Such is thein
| fatuation of the French that they seem to
i think the more openly they violate every
| Law of Nature and Nations, the more they
confirm their power and secure their free
dom,
JUST RECEIVED,
from ro r t-a u-p mnc *,
And FOR SALE, by the SUESCRICERS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 t erces do.
too barrels do.
100 bags do
no hogflieadsof Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molasses
4 bale of Cotton
» hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
' march i». 5
Imported in the ship Phoenix,
Richard matter, from >fiiflerdam,
A qnantity of.Lintfeed Oil, and
■ Two cases low piiccd Linen Checks
For sale by
George Pennocl.
April 19. en's
1 FOR SALE.
SEVERAL, very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles fiora
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
, the lots will be made to suit the purchasers.
These situations are conlidereJm point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, v. ho will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 2.
Manchester Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals froih Liverpool, se
veral trunks, suitable for the present and ap
proaching faafon, which will be fold very
low for cash or on a short credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy Waiftcoathig in Mars illev &«.
Cotton and silk and cotton Holiery, Pantaloons,
&(<
A variety of (Englilh) Umbrellas
Nankeen*, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding, &«.
N. B. A cafc of printed Muflioets, and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs, entitled to
drawback, asd very suitable for the Weft-Indies.
Apply Na. 35 South Wattr and corner of Cief
i nut flrttts " ~ 4m0.11 —Jiw
L/iWS ot THtUNIfFA) STATES.
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECpND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State oFPennfylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-feveri.
AN ACT
Making an appropriation for the payment of a
balance found due to the legal representatives
of William Carmichael.
BE it ena9ed by the Senate end House of
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress ajjimbled,That the sum
of nine thousand fix hundred and sixty dol
lars, and fourteen cents, be, and the fame
hereby is appropriated <iut of any monies in
theTreafury of the United States, net o
therwise appropriated, for discharging the
balance found due to the legal representatives
of William Carmichael, deceased, late
Charge des Affaires from the United States
in Spain, upon the settlement of the ac
counts between the said WilliamCarmjchael
and the United States.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and Prefdcnt of the Senate.
Unitbjj States, 7
Approved, April 27, 1798. 3
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
AN ACT
"to provide an additional regiment iof artille
rifls and Engineers.
o -r 1J Eit enacted by the Senate and
CC ' 11 House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfem
bled, That an additional regiment of Artille
rists and Engineers (hall and may be enga
ged by voluntary enlistments, to serve for
the term of five years unless sooner discharg
ed, and to ba organized as follows ; that is
to fay : There (hall be one Lieutenant Co
lonel jCommandant, one adjutant, one sur
geon and three battalions, each to consist of
one major, one adjutant and pay-master,
one surgeon's mate, and four companies, of
one captain, two lieutenants, two cadets
with the pay, clothing and rations of a Cer
jeant, four ferjeants, four corporals, forty*
two privates, sappers and miners, ten arti
ficers to serve as privates, and two mofician*
in each company.
Sec. 2. And be it further enaScd, That
' the additional regiment which (hall be raised
pursuant to this a&, fliall be coafidered as a
' part of the military establishment of the U
' nited States, for the time being ; and the
: commissioned officers non-commilfioned of
-1 ficers, privates, artificers and muficiars, who
: Ihdll engage in the said regiment (hall be
: entitled to the fame bounty, pay and allow
ances refpeftively, according to their cor
' refpondeut ranks, as are, or (hall be, by
k law, authorized and provided for the other
" parts of the fame eftablilhment, and (hall be
s governed by the fame rules and articles of
' wais and fliall be armed and accoutred, in
' such raanner as the President of the United
States lhall direst, and (hall and may be cm
-1 ployed by him in detachments, or otherwise
7 in the field, or the fortifications upon the
r fea-co-jft, as in his opinion, the public fer
' vice fliall require.
Sec. 3■' And be it further enaßed, That
the Secretary of War (hall, provide, at the
public expence, under the direftion of the
President of the United States, all necaffary
books, inftruiflents and apparatus, for the
use and benefit of the said regiment.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH 2 JEFFERSON,
Vice President of Ibe United States,
and President of the Smate.
United States, 1
Approved, April 27, 1798.3
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK— sr
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
j TN a flile whioh will endure the bardfhips of Jic
A weather without injury, and wfrch for nestnefi
[ and exaAitude of colouring cannot befurpaiTed in
this city.,
FLAGS and DRUMS
1 Furnilhed with difpacch, »n tha most moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accompliQied in that superb stile
1 of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter fledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of mny be fecn at their
Painting Room, Morris's Court, back of the Naw
Library.
may % f ct6w
Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
, Has removnd tn No. 106, Walnut street, be
tween Fourth and Fifth streets.
n-av 1. d'w
TL RENT,
/ A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
Kitchen—in Front, near South-Greet.——Enquire
of the Printer. , april jo— 3aw3w
%\jt©aicttt.
"PHILADELPHIA ,
THURSDAY EVENING, Max 3
The House of ReprefenfanvesorrheUnited
Stares, yesterday, took tip the report on the
ftibject of the naturalization of aliens, when
Mr. Harper proposed to amend the report
by providing that citizenfliip in this country
should be obtained in 110 other way th«n by
birth. This amendment being declared by
the chairman of the committee of the whole
to be a substitute to the resolution of the re
port underconfideration,Mr. Otis proposed
an amendment which wet)t,to exclude all fo
reigners, who are no mow citiz#A&,. from en
joying any office of honoot' under
the United States. Mr. Harper moved to
amend this, by reftrifting all such foreigners
from voting at any eleftion ; but it having
been suggested to hint, he said, that such a re
gulation would be unconditiitional, he with
drew it, until he looked into the fiibjetft.
The committee rose, without coming to any
decision. The bill to provide compensation
for marshals, clerks, jurors and witnelTes, un
derwent some difcuflion, and was re-commit
ted to a committee of sixteen members.
CITIZEN FF.KKO !
THE prowefj of the American Lion
is preserved in deathless son?, is eloquence
less deferring of applause ?—The fvveet
breath of the tuneful choir (hall render it
also immprtal !
Emulous of paying tribute to civic merit,
the Revolutionary Tribunal of Parnassus
has decreed, that the celebrated orations of
this far famed Democrat, which have been
lately roar'd and encor'd throughout the
continent, (hall be rendered into the language
of the Muses.
ConGderable progress has already been
made in this- work, the patronage of our
■worthy co-patripts mull determine the time
of its completion.
That»/paragon of eloquence, his apologe
tic oration, pronounced soon after the ce
lebrated battle, on account of its extreme
length, is referred for a nobler destiny, it
forms the X. book of the Leonad, an Epic
Poem, second in merit to the Iliad alone,
and which the learned world mayfoonexpedt
to receive from thehands of the .Great Scrib
lerius !
Thus it is Citizen, that Republicans re
ward civic merit, how much more inestima
ble than Stars and Garters the gewgaws,
with which our ancient tyrants adorned their
slaves !
Come then, Citizen Fentio, and with the
fraternal embrace, the dear pledge of our
affedion, receive this petrlefs document of
Genius, impress it on that page ever
dear to Freemen and terrible to Tyrants.—
In doing this, you will deserve well of the
Republic, your name fliall be inserted in the
Bulletin of Parnassus, where nothing finds
a place unworthy of honourable mention.
Health and Fraternity,
NOHO-ton<X PAW.
ORATION I.
Argument.—The Lion commencoth his Qration
by asserting his independence, iri{reply to Mr.
A—n, he fpeaketh much of ptdigreeand ffiew
eth his own, negatively »nd positively.—The Li
on remarketh on the fondnefs of some gentle
men for forms and ceremonies, expreiTeth his
dislike thereof, ani withal concludeth his ora
tion by declaring his rcfolutiou to abide with
the fergcant at aims, while the house Should
wait on the Tiefident.
As J! til as mice, the members fat,
Expelling rtyatfun, Sir,
The Speaker gently moved hit hat,
And Lion thus begun, Sir•
I'm rugged Mat, the Democrat,
Berate me as you please Sir,
Troc Paddy whack ne'er turn'd his back
Or bc.w'd his head to Cstfar.
Horum, feorum, rtßdum, roarum,
Spittim, Spattum, fquirto,
Tag, rag, derry, merry, raw head and
bloody bones,
Sing, Langolee nobody's hurt O !
The Yankee Crew, long since 1 knew,
At home I drill them daily;
There's not a m:n, of all their clan
But knows my old Shelalee.
Horum &c
TheCe Gentry spout of ancient blood,
It reddens all their speeches ;
Zounds Sir, my veins, contain as good
As theirs, who hang'd the witches.
Horum &c
'Tis true my Grandam never frairk'd
And toy'd with the Prote£lor,
Nor did (he spill the beer which work'd
Wh'le folks were gone to Ledlure.
Horum &c
My Dam, Sir, was a buxom lass
Her milk was rich and good Sir,
No Cow that's fed on clover grass
Canboaft of purer blood, Sir,
Horum &c
My Sire he was a strapping Buck,
As ever Girl set Eve on,
What wonder then they had the luck,
To bring the world a Lion !
Horum &c
The blue skin lads are vsftly fond
Of 'leilion shews, and ratting,
They lo\e to strut like Geese frrim Pond
And set the fools a gazing.
Horum &c
We Lion's bold abominate
To court the great and wealthy ;
I did it not in Vermont State,
I fhaa't in Philadelphia.
Horum &e
Nor was I to this Congress sent
Todrefs like Coxcomb fine, Sir,
To cringe before the President- '
And taste his Cake and Wine Sir.
' Horum &c
Go, ymi who like fuel) roy b 1 ctlfrer
t And stalk in long procefiion ;
I'll.stay and eat my luncheon here
As at the extra feflion.
Horum &c
LOST—by the Editor of the Aurora,
THE PEOPLE.
As they cannot be found in bodies coi -
porate or incorporate—juries or grand ju
ries—mayors, aldermen, councils, fele& or
common—in old men or young men—
married or finale —in private parties, pub
lic associations—city, towrvor county meet
ings, —in Ihort. as the Editor has not recog
nized the Sovereign People in his lucife
»iad by those medluiTis through which they
are dircery.ljle by ali the world befile- .1
generous reward will be given to any good
cafuill who will devi/e some new, and mon- 1
ftfous fophiltry by which the deluded dupes
of an inveterate faction may yet be made to
believe that THt people of jhe United
States hate their own patriots* government
and conliituticni
DIED— nldrnmg, ill the 6t(lye.:r of
herage, Mrs. Vitr.tr. Faihu. H«rr fuacr»l wiH
proceed tljis afternoon, from her late dwelling, 80.
77 Chcfuut street, at 5 o'clock.
We have enquiry, and cannot learn
that there i 6 ailr foundation for the Aurora
report of difagreablc intelligence . from
KentucKy.
Last Tuesday, a large and relpe&ablfi
number of the Sons of St. Tammany aflem-*
bled at Glaucefter Point to celebrate the
Day. " Hail Columbia" and many othe,"
j patriotic Songs were sung, and the Day was
spent in harmony and temperate coovivialty'
The sentiments of the compai.y may be
krfown by (he following American Toalts,
which among others that cannot m>w be re
colle&ed were given on the OGCafion.
The Day and all who celebrate its
The Preddent of the United States.
General Washington.
The peopL- of the United Strifes, may
they JJimute the blessings of their gov
ernment, at a value equal to the.r lives and
fortunes.
May the delirium of Democracy, never
rerifit America.
The Patriotic Yorth of the f ity and
County of PhSladelphia-'-May they mature
into manly- exertion those fentfments and
love of country which novv glow in their
bosoms.
The Agriculture, Commerce and Manu
factures of the United Stafqs—may they
fiourifh in spite of internal and external foes.
The brig Twin», K'-tlcr,. from henc-, bound
to St Croix, is taken by the french and carried
to St. Martins.
The isbip Arab, , fr.im tence bcund to
Jamaica, is carried into Pcrto Rico.
CAPTUKE.
The floop.Arna < ofbin, cape. T. Justice, of
Folly Landing, Virginia, she ita.i bsi-n at - nti
gua, was on her way from thence to St Bartholo
mtws, and was tak«n within two gufa? (hot oi the
fort of that iffind s by a French pnvuteei Cape.
J. in a letter dated St. Martin March 16, fays
himfelf and crew are confined on 1 »crd his fii »p
and treated with groat rigor and .insult, that trey,
are not permitted to speak to ;m American, jnd
allowedprovifion fcaicely fuffici nt kn-p them
alive, that they are plundered of all -their clothes,
even of those on their feet a»d their backs 1 that
a vessel has been dispatched Irom St. Martins to
ViSor Hugues at Guadaloupe, for condemnation
of his vessel, and that he thinks there is not the
fmilloft chance of liberation, as the Fremh con
demn every thing.
NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. Milbourne, Scene Painter, &
Mjfs Mithm/rnf' sl Nig hi.
TO-MORROW EVENING, May 4,
Will beprefented a favor.te TRAGI!DT, (not
adled this I'eafon) called
THE GRECIAN DAUGHTER.
In the courft* of the evening's entertainment,
Miss Milbourne will dance a Hornpipe, adapted
by Mr. Francis, to the popular arr of STONY
POINT.
End of the Tragedy, a grand ■ feritus
Pantomime, (perfcrmecl bwt once)
told in a&ion, in one a&, called
Death of General Wolfe.
To be added a part new
and part compiled, from the mod favorite
rricks and machinery—invenred and painted
by Mr. ?*4ilbourne, called
HARLEQUIN JUNIOR ;
Or, THE MAGIC. CESTUS. '
NO7 IC E.
AS Wcanefday the ninth instant is appointed
by the Prefideiit of the United Slates, 31
a day of Solemn Humiliation, Faflin? nr.!
Prayer, Notice is hereby given, that the"" Bank
of Pennsylvania will be lhnt on'hat day, and
that all payments which then become due at
&ank, mult be made on the day preceeding;
the Board oT Direflors will meet on Tuefdav
the eighth inflant, for the purpose of Discount
ing and Notes offered for discount mull there
fore be fentJn, the IVonday preceeding.
By order of the Board
JON. SMITH, Cnfh'ter.
ma y 3- dtß
Real Eltate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee Honfeon Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan'*
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-fovr
feet front on Great Dock-flreet and forty-two
feet deep ; together with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being partaf theefhte la-e of
Rev. Gilbert T.Snowden deceased. Tke terms
will be made known at the time r.f Sal«, by
Isaac Snowden, Admnillrator.
Edward Pole, Auctioneer.
ma Y 3' d torients
New Publication.
A Sensible, Seasonable and Spirited
address,
Written hy a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpeds ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second Oreets,
And at the Office of the Editor, jl9 Chefn'ut fir
(Price three ftxteenibi of a dollar)
Fxtrafl from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
! point by point ; relinqui/liing owe right to
1 day and preparing to facrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new concession
but opeEs a new demand. Rapacity grows
more insolent by uninterrupted success, a?d
timid submission invites depreclation-Wherc
will this end ? What offering will gorge the
Sppetite of plunder, or appease the rare
of unrefifted hostility ? No chimed nation -
has ever before been guilty of such
and ins lence, no free nation has ever be
fore endured rhem."Treasury Department, |
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN", '
' I 'HATpropolaS willbe received at the Office of
X the Secretary of the Treafuryuntil the expi
ration of the nth day of July neit enfuing.for
the supply of all rations which may he requited
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of
OiSober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrift hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwegn ;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittsburgh ; at Le Beuf ; at v
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Loramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Dcfi- ■'
ance ;• at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi* *
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon en the River Wabalh; at MafTac; at any
place or places on theeall Gdeof the River Missis-
Cppi above the mouth of the River Ohio, a»d up
on tbe Illinois River ; at any place or placet on the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the /
State of Kentucky, and within the said State ; at
:'ioxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other ■
• ills in the State of Tennessee; at any place or
places on the east fide of the River Mississippi, be*
low the southern boundary of the State of I'ennef- 1
fee, to thelbuthern boundary of the United States.
If supplies (hall he required for any polls or
places not mentioned in this notice.aH such supplies
(hall be furniftied at prices proportioned to those to
the poflis before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contrador.
The rations to be supplied to consist of the fol
lowing articles, via.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork '
or bacon
Half a jill oCrum, brandy or whif-"}
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hß £j„ d
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( mion ,
one pound of candles J i
The rations arc to fee furnilhed in such quantities,
as that there {ball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the coniumption of the troops at i
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at lead three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame fliall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
pmce and rifle of iffumg thefupphesto the troops
at each post, and that all loffcs sustained by the de
predations of &n enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United Btates, lhall be paid for at
the price o{ the .article* captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
ble charadlcrs, and the certificate of a commiihon
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
lqfl and the amount of the articles for which com
pensation (hall be claimed. 1
The privilcdge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furniftied under the proposed contract, ftiall be
iflued, until the supplies which have or may be
furniftied under the contrail now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 1?. qawtisjy
Alex. J* Miller iff James Davis, \
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that <
thi y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, ;
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fo-itment of India, German, lrijb, French and Bri- I
tijb Mannfafturesfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a short credit.
February 19
JOSEPH 1 A I
Walnut-street, No. 110,
BEING duly commissioned and sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
Bnglilh, Spunilh, Portugucfemd Italian Langua
ges • he flatters himfclf that his former profeffion,
as advocate, both in France and St.Domingo, has
■tvell qualified him to translate any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary instruments.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI- (
BRARV continues open at the ahove place. Ma- J
ny valuable additions having been made to this ;
collection, it confiHsnovv of about 1500 volume',
the bell adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wi(h both to improve in the Language, and '
obtain ufeful inftrudion and plcifare.
march .10. _____ aawim
Pennsylvania Hoipital,
4th mo. 7th, 1798.
Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi-
JL tal, are te meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
cle& twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
aufuing year.
By order of a hard of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
aprill? dtE
NOTICE. ~*
ALL persons who have any demands against
theeftate of Willam Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are Yequefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are defircd to make immediate
payment, to
i* GE ?-D° B *° N \ Udmin^r
No. 15, So. Third-flreet. J
January 4. dtf
To the Affli&ed with
N ERVOUS Disorders, loss of appetite, female
complaints, debilitated conflitutions, inward
weaknesses, lownefs of spirits, fcminal weaknefles,
indigeflion, decayed, weak or relaxed confiitutions,
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
ieties, and tremors, which so dreadfully affViX the
weak, the sedentary and the delicate, every symp
tom of extreme debility, attendant on the indiscre
tions of youth, the confluences of a dissipated
life ; excess of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or
any intemperance ; disorders incident to young
girls and women at a certain period of life—
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of absolutely fpecific and unparal
leled virtues, in the'fpeedy and effeSual cure of th«
above disorders, having flood a trial of many fuc
c*fs(>l years, during which period reaay have been
restored from tha brink of the grave.
Youth and age cf either sex, are equally the ©b
jefts of this Rcilorative, aiid they will uniformly
participate in its Talnbrions qualities and effects ;
for whether the fyflem has received a ihock, and is
debilitated, frqm improdcncifs or inattention in
the earlier part of life, or is finkinjr under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will givs present relief to, and afford a pleating
profpeA of returning health and strength, bygiv
ifcg tone to the mufcu'ar system' and organs of di
geflion, and in a great meax'ure renovating the coh
ftitutioa. t
Wotr.cnJit any period ef life, may by this mcdi
cir.eic freed from the moll afflitting disorders in
cident to the lc*, and at a certain period it is molt
highly ufeful.
The Cordial Rcflorativc Balsam 11 fold genuine
(only) by the proprietor, Dr.JAMES CHURCH,
at his medicine ilcrc, No 1, i>outh Third (irett,
next Market -rect, 11n)id.-|phia ; where may be
haca t account ot the virtues «f th:s R«fl»ra-ive
asd a lift of sfrilasw jw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, ,
MARCH 1, '79®'
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, _
IN pursuance of the Ad of C.ngrefc passed on the Cxth day •£ W' A?
nir.ety-fcven, " An A<sl laying duties on Stamped Vallum, " titM
AH pafl'cd on the fifteenth day of Dec.mber, one thousand seven hundred and
'■ A.. A£t to postpone for a limited time the commcMcement of the C and" after the
tied "An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Pmpc. , ' ac( j CO H CC .
firft day of Jaly enfming, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, w
ted throughout the United Status.
For every fcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment', or sheet or piece of Paper, «pon which Ihall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments »r writings I ollowing*—to wit. | MU
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - *'
Any Licence to praAice.or Certificate of the adm.fiion,enrolment or regiftrj of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in aßyCourt of tne
V "provide J, that a Certificite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of thnfaid Office., shall so far » relates to the ptymen'ofthe
doty aferefaid, t>« a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for etclr and every oftbefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or attthontyof the United Mates
(except for lands granted for military services) - *_ 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) -
Any Charter-Party, Bottrmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - -
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any ViUor
ther teßamentary inftrument,or for any share or part of a P erfor ;*J.J lla ", < :
vided by force otany statute of diftributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person dcce«fed,the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun-
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - -. . " ,
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sam of 1
Any Policy pi Infurtnce or inftrsment in Hature thereof, on any Ihip, veilel or
tjoods inl'ured from one diftritf to another in the United States, . 5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum tor whicn
Insurance is made (hail not exceed five hundred dollars, - S
When the sum insured Ihall exceed five hundred dollars, " 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature fonver, that (hall pas. the seal ( sf any
Court, other than such as it may b« the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furniih for the use of the United States or fame particular Bate, "
Any Bond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exrhang*, promissory
note 1 or other note, other than-any recognnance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any date, or for their
uferefpeflivelv, - - * ,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, -
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred do »«, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exc*ding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - " 7-5
Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty ay«,
such bonds or notes (hall be f»ibjei£l to only two fifth parti of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - " 1
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollaTt, - I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not excredinj five hundred dolUi s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not weeding one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand dollars, - * " " „ ,
Any Notes itTued bv the banks now established, or that may hereafter be eflab
lifhfd within the' United States, other than the no'os of such of the (aid
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpefltvely, according to
the following scale. - b
On all note* not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " " *
On all notes above five hundred doHars, "
Any Prottft or other Notarial aft, - * * /11'wr.r **
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtam or fell War?
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - " * ,
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cultoms or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - * "
For five hundred dollars anif not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For more than two thousand dollars, - ' 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftriiß to another diftria of the United States, not b«ing in the
fame State, - * 10
! If from the United.States to any foreign port or place, _ ' * 15
I Anv Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods o f*ff»Ai.mad« in'any
j ea(e"reduirecThy law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diftrainetJ so
rent or raxes, and jrood. «.U»h in virtue of any Ugal proc«r« b f -5°
Any Certificate of a Share in any Iterance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, "
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, * " " *S
If under twenty dollars, at jhe rate of ten centj for one hundred dollar*.
The dutiesaforeiaid will be colleaed and received hy the Supervisors, Tnfpeaors aud other Officers
of InfpeAion, i« the several Diltria% Surveys and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t« time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrids for
that purpose.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra&icable, markorftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcslsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
{lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Cititens of the United States be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Jnfpeitor, Officer of lufpeAion,
„ „ b c, .pp.i-4«« U- aw-fa. «• "-P-.
• tht fay and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every alhftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
riOPOSES TO MINT BT SOBSCRirTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advsrtifer.
To be ptiblilhed every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current 14. Looden, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The raws of insurance—the price
of (locks—course of exchange, &c. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine aud other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important —and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertise
ments.
The price tp fubfcrifiers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at. their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—T wo dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
scribers at a greater distance will have it Cent them
agreeable to their direSions—to pay tvo dollars at
the time of fubrcribing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a Suf
ficient number havefubferibed to pay the expence
of conducting it.
£jp It i» from the advice and to gratify the wilh
»f a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publishing this Price Gnrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other; And it is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with lech
other matter as may be most material tofend abroad
in the firft twq pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as r»ay be m»re immediately do
mestic, and.to advertisements.
Sabfcriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-ftrect,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chefntt
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff.s and
blinds in the door«, with or without harness.
F.nquirc of Peer Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
iixth ftrttt, or tl.e fhbfcrihcr in Oermantow n.
CASPAR IV. HAINES.
apiil a 'aavr^vr
Freili Teas.
Juj} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Co»npting House, No. 54, Chefhut-flreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hu Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skiri, and TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted; black and'oloured Lute
strings and Sattiiif, Nankeens, CafiSa, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks. «
They lave also For Sule,
Ell wide Persians, Banianna Handkerchiaft,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Wi lli a m M'La w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflortment of Horfexnan's
Pistols, direct from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horfeman'B Caps, Swords, Cartou:h Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
I Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January \itb, 1798.
FOR THS INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commifiioners, for cleansing the
ftrects, fcc.
Diftrifl No. x.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoo.'e.
4. From the fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar' street, to be under the fu- I
penntendance of Hugh Roberts.
.£jF" When pumps are out of order south of
High-flreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fiifth-Qrcets, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixey and Debaven, in SalTafras
ftrcet, brtwecß Sixth and Seventh-firetts.
treasury department, .
Mart!) 30th. 179®*
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an ait of Congrcfs palled on the
i 9 th day of March, , 79 Mhe fc»low.«g
alterations and amendments hjve been made to
the aft pafied on the 6th day of July 1797. en- F
titled » An a<3 laying duties on stamped vel
«' lum, parchment and paper.
The Oarnp duties on debentures or certifi
cate! for the drawback of Cultoms ®r duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of fever.and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Superiors
or Infpeflors refpeflively, t® any persons other
than Officers of <he Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Payment or Paper, upon
whieh the dutiea shall amount to len Dol
lars tor upwards.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on »« 0UI " of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchmen. or
Vellum, an additional pnee will be demanded P
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each fc.n of Parch o!
mi nt, or Two Hundred Cents for each ik.« of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnrk- a
ed at the expense of the United States and pro- I>
portionally for any leflVr quantity- n
Given under my handy (it Philadelphia, the
day and veir abovemcntio"*d. b
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary oftbr Treasury. I'
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles J
FOR SALE. it
THEV will be d«livered to anyplace in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New- n
York, where boats driWinf fix le<t water can go t j
Irom this place. It will often fait the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters directed to the fuhferiber at this, p
place, and put into any post office in the United j
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Thofc who wist to eontradl in Phila- -
delphia, will please to apply to Gidion Hill
Wells, No. 135, Market-street. The subscriber
it desirous of conte*ains with funis refpo. ;ble
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and difpof; of f«»r
him, on commiflion, a quantity of two feet Shin- 0
gles, for home use. and of two feet and eighteen v
inches, for exportation. F
William Hill Weill, t ;
Daglboroagh, state of Delaware. t
apriUS. iaw4w_ 0
Canal Lottery- —No. IL f,
WILL commence drawing Mopday, the loth P
in ft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery. at '
Sevan Dollar,, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery r
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street *
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at T« a
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- 1
ing and-cxanaining in these, the City of W< afting- c
lon, No. 11.and Pattvrfon Lotteries, and informa- •
(ion where tickets maybe had in moll of the Lotte- 1
ritt authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union. 1
N. B. The businesses a Broxe*, inhuyingand a
felling all kinds of Public Stoclc and Securities, *
difconnting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to, »
by WM. BLACKBURN. '
November 11 ■ §
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Sulfcriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate 0* the fauth fide of Chefnut-flrect, be
tween Second and Third ?treet4 : -W*e containing
eighteen feet, and the other !evente;-n feet, more or
e fa, on the said street, and both extending, the 1
lf 3 me breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more '
or less, to Carter's alley. '
There are, on Chtfnut-ftrefct, two two-ftorjr
BRICK HOUSES ;
(Numbers 80 an<J 82)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
thrce-ftory
Brick Houfc and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purehafer. ' \
The three Houses will be fold separately or t»ge- „
. thcr.
Further particulars may b* known on applica
tion to *
ZACHARIAH POVLSON, JVN.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or attiie Library. 1
march 23. 1
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faie by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 riigh-ftreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-llreet and the
Bookfcllcri generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
, BEACON HILL,
A Lual Poem, historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of Bojlon.
iStIUIfUI »«OOK 1.
Allulion to the surrounding I'rofpeift—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic ■
Mufe—FiAion discarded—Dedication to Waft- ;
ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of the 1
1 Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
' —.The Memory of his Brother—Death of War- ;
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame— '
Wafliington at Mount Vernon—called to the
• chief Command—Formation of thj Columbian
Camp at Cambrilge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer-;
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
( Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congrcfe—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
, prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress of free
dom throughsut the World,
march 30. §
t For Sale,
The cargo ofthebrig American from Lagulra,
CONSISTING OP
Cataccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. in, South Femirh Street.
April 33 (
e 17*0 be Let,
e (And possession given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
e 4# feet front, and 40 feet deep. With back buildings
0 and (lables, at prcftnt in the tenure of Major Jack
>• son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
" april 2. $
e JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICK,
e (Price a J Cents J
Reflexions on Monroe's View
ie OT TBR CONDUCT OT THE IXBCVTIFi,
As publiihed ia the
if GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figuafurc of
SCIPIO,
of In which tie Commercial Warfare of France is traced
s- to French Fadtion in this Country, as its Source,
•n4 the Motjitet oj QpfeJiiUv,
[/» the press andfoon will be pnbitjted,']
WILBERFORCE ON REUGION.
PROPOSALS
By J. Ormrod,
No. 4t, Chefnut street, Philadelphia*
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Practical View
OF ¥HE
Prevailing Religious System
OF f
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
CONTRASTfD WITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY.
Br William Wilberforce, Es%.
Member of jhe Hritifh Parliament.
Search the Scriptures.—John r. 39.
How charming is Divine Philofopby.
fjot barjh and crabbed as dull fools fuppoji.
But musical as is Apollo's lute,,
And a perpetual feajl of ncclaredJmeets,
Where no crude furfeit reigns.
MiltoS.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed with a handsome
Pica type, on fine paper, and will form a volume
of 400 pages, large oflavo. ,
It will in* delivered to fubferibers frvonedoli.
lar and twenty-five cents in blue boards, or neat
ly bound and lettered, for one dollar and a
half
§2" The London copy fold (when it wa» t»
be had) for two dollars and a half.
£s° The Britilh Reviewers announce this pub
lication to be one ol the moll ufeful, elegant and
energetic, on the fuhjeil of religion, that has ap
peared within their memory. The reception
it hat. already met with from the public, llrong
ly corroborates their opinion, for it has, in a few
minths, run rapidly through four large edi
tions in London.
The publisher flatters himfelf, that as soon a»
its merit* become generally known, it will be
read with as much avidity in America as it isia
Uurope.
April 16. jt
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GKQtwt), situate on theeaft fide
of the nuilii Ofpet, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Data
ware, about thirty ojr for y yards below Captain
Furbee'sTavern, containing in front ojifaid street
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eastward
twelve perches, together with the buildings there
on ere (Sed, which consist of a good brick house,
two (lories high, well finilhed, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
passage eigh't or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchen ; aback brick building with two rooms
above and below about ttn or twelve feet by four
teen ; the Bpper rooms of this building communi
cate above Hairs with the passage of the house :
A brick smoke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in evfry refpe& as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of th« Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS. J
march *7. tus4w
For Sale,
A good situation for 3 Country SeATi
Forty acres. J2f Land,-
On the Oid York road, within fight ps Ger
mantown, Biid about five miles from the city;
the whole being under good fence, and in ex
cellent order as paftnre ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonk Elliott Cmsson, at his Offi?e for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-flreet.
4th mo. 3d. tu&fnt
For Sale,
A Farm and Coc/NT/ir Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia— the farm contain* «c es of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
-the reft arable land. The house and garden which it
large and well paled, stand in the most pleasant situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an island
'which isoppofite. and the village of Norris-town—*
There is a ftiad fifhery belonging to the place.—En*
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premifea.
April 16 - jawtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafraa Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acre* of prime LAND, upwards of joo
ef which are in woods. The Buildiags are all er
tellcnt, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two Uigißjrtm wli.li Cow Isoota, SraWest"?
horses, a spacious treading floor undef cover, a
| granary, two Overseer's houses, tvro ran*
' ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
: them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—Th« whole Estate being nearly
. surrounded by water, it reouires but little fencing,
- and has a good Shad and Herringfilheiy. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Valt,imore market?, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a (hort fail from « .norc. There
is a large Peach, and two large Appie Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent frnits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.
Tlje whole will ba fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently fituatad) as may suit the purchaser. Fhe
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c* will also be difpofad of. For further
particulars apply to Oiosoi Hastincts, on tne
prerflifes, or tothefubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jos.
February 24- aaw6>v
Bafkenridge—for sale.
IT conlitls of pao acres, almost all of which ia
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on th«
East by the river Pafaiek.
Thtrc are on it a number of buildings, forming
> »square of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
• is a vary convenient onc.andja fmallcxpcnce would
" put it in complete repair.
, The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trces-»-«nd there is on other pirtsof f*ui
trail near 300 other Apple Trees —as aiio a great
variety ef other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotias ami
f Forest Treos, that add to tha beauty and eonvem
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 mile*
from the towns of Newark and Eliwbeth : 19 do.
from Morris-Town, and I» from It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price w five pound pr. acre
iacafh, on delivery of tb« cn "
,i quire of T - EN & Co.
N». 78, Chofaut tree).
February »• aodtf