\- f ( • , ' ( % s*"« r "* 4 ' 9
Ddily
By John Ward Fenno, Nii9 Cbefnut Street.
ftUMBEA I9 2 90
dj- T/j<r price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers rejtding in the city of Philadel- *
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and directing; C
and unless fomeperfon in this city will
become q/ifwerable for the fubfcrip
iion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance. 1
For Sale, "!
THE SH,P
PACKET,
Hi-lings Cowpirtiiw.ut, Mailer, I[K
T" EUR THEN abaut X,s co barrels, a go«dftrong
Ship—has excellent accommodations, or palUngers, j
■maybe sent to sea with fmaU expellee. She., lay- f
£/* Mifflin'. wharf. For further part.cular CO
•laiie as . of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or fu i
Smith & Ridgway. con
, <X*t «
, r novemotr 10 _____ —:
FOR S/ILE,
|
"James IVilliamfon, majler. £
Just arrived from St D'imingo, built 111 Pin- Soi
ladtlpbra, rf live Oak and Cedar, copper (heath
c,l in London, burthen .120 tons mounting 16 Mes
jjuns and may be preuared for sea in a few cays, f re
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF
Ir 1 Ho-fhead. and 50 barrels Sugar
■»60,e00 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. Db.s
and bags O •
31 Puncheons of Jamaica Rum. ig
ALSO, §!
TUC BRl^*
R. Williamson, Majter. Tm
ffßOlvH>t7bo£ingo, with her cargo, confiding of
43 hogiheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee. kJ
likewise, \
'Jp§L AMIABLE MATILDA, Xft
MOt.'N sING *1 Guns, burthen U1
two thousand two huudred barrels of
fclour, and injompleat order.—Applv tn
Thomas £s? John Ketland. ; a
novemfier 13 5_ j
for London, bt( ,
the ship in
4g|r JEAN,
»*- 'A Captain Daniel M'Pherson,
jfSSFosLtf WILL be ready to take her car
go on board b T the XJth inft —Forjterms apply to "
' R'jfi & Sim/0/1.
HAVE iOI SALE,
Superior Tenerifie Wine,
hi episrter calks
Bengal Sugar, firll quality, in bene* and bags.
A few bales of IVufhr.s, > q
Rice m Tierces,
And a imall cargo of St. Marti*'s SALT.
November 9 l J—
Elliston & John Perot,
Have fcr Sale, at
'No. 41, North Water-Street, 3
Muscovado Sogar ißandana Handker.hiefs
Copper in (heels St nai.s Mideira wine
Copper Ore 3oa) father and
Lignum Vitae p ew barrels Shad and
Sail Canvafi Herrings T
Oznabrigs
Also For Sale,
j|fjfw* BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 tons- -Bermu
da built, fails remaikaMy fall and is well found.
nov 8 ' w * f 3 w
For Sale.
THE Smscmoß*. -intending «o decline the E
DRUG BUSINiSS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &u.
(hop is elegant, commodious, aud fuQici
enr'.y kno.vn'for die extensive bufmefs toot in the *
who Male and retail line ; the Ctuation equal to \
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and ~
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Siocfc, will bo fold, as will bed suit the purchaser.
Thj terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, JUN.
IVIO has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the river trade— 1
The PeggYj about 3otonsburthen, J
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably §
ilour, of an easy draught »f water, rigging in g
wood orde/.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails p
v e l|, ai„l in complete order for the lumber tufmefs
All persons indebted to the late firm ed
J(SMthuv:t t3" BalJtoin, }V. B GMtb'jiait, Gula-
Jbwait Isf Ahtn, or the fulifrri .rr, are earnestly
i-squcllel t« make fpeecy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbm.
auttuM .? $ (
■' FOR WILMINGTON,
No ith.Carolina,
THE SHIP
jjdkt COMMENCE, '
Captain Wood,
£\.' on *ery mo-
terms, and fail about the
,ajth inftai t. Apply to the Captain on board at
La'imei's wharf, or
Willings & Francis,
Pcnn Street.
November f A
60,c00 lbs. Prime Coffee,
Deli', Me in Baltimore,
Isaac Ilazlehurft & Son.
jiov. 19 i
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EWING, NOVEMBER 22,(798. [Volume XIV.
Ship Broker's Office, «
And Commijfton Store,
No. 19, South froict Strfft,
Next coar to she Cudoia House. _ -p: c
r T""HH Subscriber, encouraged Dy the advice of oj£
X his friends, offers bis service to the public Hrf
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propof- gro
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat- Cos
ing thereto —aflilt masters of vtffels and oihers pi*,
in entering and cfearing at the jCuftom-Houfe, Bri'
' procuring and (hipping freight," fettling Infur- Eflc
' ance and all other mercantile accounts, and Cre
' have on hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps. Biel
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in- Do\
formation given in general mercantile matters. Pat
—From a know ledge gained by long experience
of every branch of bufiaefs he hopes to be ufe
ful to tho e whapleafe to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
November 19 ' J kl
FORTBELFAJT, g
fOSEI'HUS,
Henry H. Kennidit, mailer,
A'OIV lying at Mr. Doughty's wharf, t n
Soinhwark. This Jh'rp is in compleat order, and
will be ready to tah in her cargo on Monday
' next* and fail Dj'th all pojjible dispatch For
1 freight or pa/Tuge apply to
JOHN dKAIG,
no. 12, Dock flreet.
, nov. 16 $
For SALE or CHAR l ER,
1 ... THE SHIP £
M O' L L Y, 2
RSigSgSV. Burthen 4100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found ' t
fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye—(he >s pierced '
18 guns, and mounts iz new fix pounders, with
frrrall arms iu proportion.
THE SHIP .
DIANA, %
Btirthen «,100 barrels of Flour, -«■
Philadelphia built if live oak .
and c«dar, i> pierced for four- r . l
t£en guns, *nd mounts ten new four pounders,
] with small arms in proportion.
f THE BRIG 3
sJgglk AMAZON, J
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flaur,
New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
F9r terms apply to J
NIC KLIN &GRIFFITH. «tj
Who have for Sale
, en boardfundry vejfels at Marcv(-Hooi,
la,ooo buftiels of Liverpool fine fait er '
, ■-. —. v•%*& wt ■ - —' 1 ■ ■ 1
186 crates of queens ware afforte'd
7 tiercel of bottled porter
10 barrel) of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint ,
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Sparith brown do.
35 boxes of pipes •-
91 boxes white ) HAVANA SUGARS »
89 do. brown ) j )£
3,5C01b5. prime cochineal
3 barreb New Orleans indigo
s 4 puncheons Jamaica spirits 2-
20 bale 3 of fail «envafs
379 (heets of copper, assarted from 48 by 14 vo
d to 60 by 48 inches an
Two tubs raised ftiil bottoms assorted an
36 fix pound guss 45 feet, each pu
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each ha
50 barrels of gun powder pe
, 6 cases ManchelUr cotton checks- in;
» 3 trunks muslins and shawls he
1 14 cases muflinets, (Hmjties and ghighams be
I, 18 cherts coloured nankeens, muflinets,&c. th
I» trunks printed calicoes . Ci
6 b«les of whit* and coloured caflimeres _ Sc
I bale of course woollens
le English nails assarted. in
ie Ocflober 17. fri.&fat. tf. or
■ For Sale, cr Charter. 0
d fourteen 6 poun- w
ders, copptred and fails remarkably faft—burthen Cl
about icoo barrels.
FOR TERMS A PPL Y TO /
Willings (5" Francis.
Penn Street.
November 9 daw -
y For Sale, or Charter.
THE SHIP
* sss£ JOSEP HU S ,
Kennedy, Majler,
!> NOW lying at Dough'y'il wharf,
' r Burthen about Two Thousand Earrels, is in com
1, pleat order, and ready to. receive a cargo.
* s For terms apply to
ft- IJO H N CRAIG, '
No. 12, Dock trcet.
November 14 j
To be Sold,
Br PUBLIC VENDUE, <■
On Friday next, the 23d instant, at Six
o'clock in the evenir.g, at the Merchant's
Coffee House in Second street, agreeably
( to inrectory,
'> THE BRIG
ABIGAIL,
'he W»» As fhc now ties at Mr. Weft's
|at Wharf—Burthen abont 1400 barrels.
The conditions willbe made knowa at the time
and place of sale. .
november 19 jtmw&f
~ A Young Man, i
WHQ writos good hand, understands, <
accounts andcun be well recommended, :
wants a Situation as Clerk nr Afliftant in a ]
Wholesale Store, or Couutir.g-hcure. Appli- i
>n. cation to be made at this Office.
;t nov 14
FOR BREiViN,
f THE 3?
T R I X) N, V
SHE is rov load, and will cer- I' hz
rTy fail ra Ten D. —For freight g treet>
or passage aj gjy to _ th« cot
Pratt b* lntztng. aV ery
WHO HATE FORSStE t
Ticklenburghs Checks SUI7 *
OzEabrigs Stripes
Helliani Slippers p er t j, (
Brown rolls Cambri f roß
Coffee bags # Twine f ron
Platilfos Glaf» tulcrs or a
Bri'tar.ias • Port wri T 0 _
Eftopaillei WinJoJafs
Creas a la Morlaix Brimito _
Bielefield linnen Mahogi
Dow las Red cricheefe, &c. See.
Patterbomes „
ALSO j
For Freight or Carter, \
j£"ST~ tue Brew saif i
\
A w as akove I ]
nov. 21* djot ]
BOSTON BEF, <
200 B.;rrels in Shippinjprder.
FOR SALE B
JO tin KTRIN,
No. 96, Ao* Feomjlrtel. 1
Who wants to Iharter,
A GOOD s<fUT rESSSL,
Of about 50 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO BHiALt*
40 Pipes of Madeira 3 years old.
nov 21 "J* l
FOR PORT>MOU IH,
NtW-HAMSHUE,
jTh g Schooner J
Capain Gunnison, a:
LYING at Chefnut fttet wharf—will fail on
Friday next. For freight or paiTage, having ex
cellent. accommodotions,apply at Mr. WeMh'?
(lore, on said wharf, or ti the mailer onboard. 2
Forfale on boardfaid febooner»
30 bbls. New-England Cyder.
novembcr 18 *eo3t
-
FOR LONDON,
To return early in the Spring,
AMTAB L E,
C. Tilljnghast, Master.
IS expected to depart 3bout the iil'th of Decem
ber. Fer freigb 4 la on
-' Tkremiaii warder,
N«. 12, North Third Street.
WHN HAS ON HAND,
8 by 10 Window Glass,
And a quantity of Paper Maker's Rags.
November 19 « 0 3'
For Sale, j t
LeVnoX, a,
NOW lying at P«vofe's wharf
22§?Sli3£9fflt)etweeii South ijf Almond streets.
This Vessel has only made two Whaling r;
I voyages, was originally (heathed, and Gnce her
arrival in this port has been completely caulked
and Iheathed anew, new Mali; have aifo been
pat into her, and her rigging completely over- Ra
1 hauled, of course her Hull and l\igging are in
perfefl order —and it is prefuiied from her hav- Li
ing been employed in the Whaling bt.fir.cfs and ?, a
htr tinjbers completely filled with oil, flic will [ri
be as durable as any vefiel. An inventory cf
:• the (hip and her materials may l>e icer> at the
Coffee-Houfe, or at the hopfe of the Subfinber,
South-east corner of Arch-fireet and Sixth-street. _
If the above vessel is not fold at private Sale
immediately, the will be exposed to Public Sale In
on Wednesday evening t1 e lift instant at seven
o'clock, at the City Tavern in Second-flreet.
The Sulfcriber has also for fate,
A Cargo of excellent Whale Oil £
In calks proper for exportation, being full bound
j. with Iron Hoops, which is an advantage not O
common in Cargoes of Oil at this market.
JLSO, e
A small quantity of Whale Bone.
JOSEPH BALL. 0
nov 19 &3t J
/ A
Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, Doct-SruuiT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
' IMPORTED IN DIFFERENT VESSELS,
A general ajfortment of
rf > Coarse and tine Woolens,
" 7-8 & 4-4 Irilh Linens, Shapings, Tlckens &c.
Scarlet and Cloth colored Cardinals
Hats in boxes of ia dozen each
China, Nankeen Dining fe:ts and cups & saucers
Black Lutestrings, Taffatys and Sattms j
Pungem Cloths and Humhums, Blue and Red q
Cotton, Chappals and Pullicat Koraalls h
China and Englilh Umbrellas t
j x T Cro »ley Millington Steel
r > Tin in Bwxes 1-3 x
". Shot, Frying Pans and Weeding Hoc-s
y 6d, Bd, iod, izd Nails, &c. Ssfc.
nth month 8 d«w
TO BE RENTED
UNTIL NEXT SrR 1 NC,
L •
jind pojfejfion delivered immediately.
A HANDSOME and commodious three
l\ story HOUSE, in Walnnt-ftreet near I
f Third-flreet, No. 58. <
Kitchen and Wa;h-houfe bAk, together with a
ids convenient yard opening upon 1
ed, and is well calculated to accommodate either a
1 a private family, or boarders. The terms are ea- | '
i>lw iy and will be mlde known upon application to [ '
the Calhierof nhe Bank of Pennfylvmia.
i nov 19 $
REMOVAL.
Have !
Georgr Dobson, ...
... , Ship
INFORMS his friends and the Public m general 0 j
that he has removed from No. 15, South rhiJKl or ot jj (
Street, to No 91, South fideof Market-street, nCTr a ppr«*
the corner of Third Street, sad is bow opening
a very exrenfive aflbrtm«rit ' f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENTSMASON,
WHICH BE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the (hips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane, "\ a . v
from London, a;id per Chefapeak and Thomas Muflir
from Liverpool, and will be fold low for ca(h, Balalo
or approved notes at a short date, viz, P' n! a '
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and Scotch
CaffiniAs, fa(hionable colours f)urar
Yorkftiire 7 4 do. and do. Worl
Mi**id and plain coatings „ '
Welch flannels y jj
Kersey beavtr, for Spencers pi° r
Jeannets and Tabby cords r tz
Velvet? asd velretteens '■
Velverets aad thickfetts . Stripe
7, 8, 4 4 and 11 8 cotton linsn checks Whit
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics Knap
-6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts Worf
London chintz and chintz furnitures Pewti
Furniture totions N Spade
Do. dimities An it
Purple aad chintz (bawls 100 c
Silk do. no-
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worsted hose
India and British muslins of every description
Black and white orape
Tiffany and paper fans
» Hats assorted in small erses V
Umbrellas Whs
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands I
Silk ModeS Old
1. Superfine French cambrick £ lrc
Cambrick mufljus Q oal
Do. thteads _ YVir
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
""" Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
noven%hcr 17 ' §
er ~John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City, «
AMD IS REMOVING PROM NO. 8, CHKSNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock c
near Third-Jlrcet. &U
Where he has for Sale
25c Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING OP
Csffaes
, Baftas
Mamoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, JsV. or.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
ConJJl'mg of Woolens only, _J
' amongst them arX,
; on Cloth,
— —.
... Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
s 100 Hhds. of Old Rum, Irj
it Of a fine flavor, 3d tf 4th proof. Ch
n- v lo § Dr
Jujl imported in Jh'tps William Penn, A- l;.
miablc and Jean,from London,
A qsantity of Canuon/izes 4,d & 9 lb.") with balls
l r Carronades, II lbs. 5 fuitalle. J*'
Mufquets, Mnfquetoons,Cutlaffes and~j &
, C S ' Pirtols, for (hiss use, I 5.
! n ® Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces,! 2 n
,e T and Hcrfeman's Piflols, f mT"? ♦
" 40c,0c0 Flints, cr.iefly for mulkets, in j
,een Ic*.- . J
vcr " Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
e in bards, in talcs of js each,
i* av - Light Cavalry Swcrds in Cases ,
and Eabrcl, Swords and Cutlasses, with plated mounting
will Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general af
y cf fortmcot —For Sale by
; . Thomas £3* Jno. Ketland,
lber> Phil ad. Qflober ij. '
Sale 1 Just Arrived,
Sale In the Tlrig Eli'ia, frotn the Mediterranean,' and
even now landing at Walnut Street wtoirf,
*• Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftcnc.
)il An affortxnent of valuable DRUGS,
"•jnd coksistiuq op
not Opiem, Aloes, Cantharides, Carpphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, icc. ice.
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writiag paper
inc. Swest oil in bottles and flilks
L. Olives, anchovies and capers
l3t Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
• u Satins '
' Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
ls, St. Croix Sugars, ,
Claret in cases
_ Old Madeira Win. of the firft quelity.
s \ JAMES YARD.
lS November 3 §
No r I E. \
ucers ALL Peffons indebted to the Eflate of Doctor
£\. Francis Bowe% Sayre, deceased, are re-
I Red queftsd to make immediate payment —and those
having deirandsagainfl the £iid tftate, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, Adminiftratjix.
Robert Heyfhatn, Administrator.
November 15 daw
«w Israel pleas an 1 WCoT =
*
No. 74, South Second street,
Have returned from the emintry s and have for '
SALE, as usual, a large ajfortment of
three DRY GOODS, ;
near Imported in the la(t vessels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally fuitcd to the prefsnt and ap- !
-Way, proaching season ,
»ith a They are determined to fell off very low for .
t ca(h or Ihort credit.
:her a I Note All perlon* indebted to th« late firm of
ire ea- Samuel Pltofunis ts" s«t/, art desired to make im
iion to ' mediate payment to th?> fufcfcribera.
Israel Pleas ants lif Co.
i Nov. 1 d4w
The Subscribers
Have received by the late European arrivals, the-
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on consignment, whick
they offer by package to Wholesale Store Keepers,
' or others, on very advantageous terms, for ca(h,
r approved notes, or bills of exchange on London*
: Medford & Willis,
No. jB, North Front'Straet:
IRISH LINENS.
' Printedealicoes, furnitures, .purple *nd colored
(bawls
s Muslins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
, Balaloie, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and lundry haberdalhery
} Scotch'and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worsted, cotton and fancy hofifry
Felt, caftbr and beaver hats
Yorkshire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings andduffills
Caflimeres and fwanfdowns
Stripe, point and role blankets
:s White ccjp>reA and, Wellh flmnela
Knapt Kendall cottons
Worsted and mohair plulhes
Pewter, aflorted in small calks
Spades, Aevels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoke of WatcWrs k
100 calks nails aflorted,
nov it §
For Sale,
Jn 60 Boxes While Havanna^
J4J do Brown do > SUGAR
48 hhds. do do }
Which are now Landing atChef.iUt-flrtet
Wharf, from on board the Urig George.
Also for Sale,
ico hhds. of Prime Coffee,
Old Madeira Wine of the firft quality
Carolina Indigo
Coarse Ealt India Sugars
Window Glass
Bandar.oe Handkerchiefs, £ff
A quantity of India Muilins & Chintzes,
£• "John Craig
\ No. 11 Dock J}red.
nor 14 j |
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns v
Baizes
J Velvetts
Velveretts
Printed calieoet
* Furniture & fancy dimitie*
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Brulfels andPerfia cajpctts
Buttons
For fait, far cujh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. >43 Arch ftrtet.
nov, 16 $t Jan t
Imported,
AND tOK SALE BY
IS A XTT Hftß VE Y, J UN.
No. 9, South Water Striet,
A QUANTITY OF
Surinam Cotton and Coffee.
• Irilh linens, in whole and half boxes
Checks
j5 Drogheda linen
Irish hackled Flax
A- Liverpool Salt and Coal.
ALSO A rARCEL OF
balls' Men's and Women's Combs aflorted.
tile. Scot's Thread—and ■
One hundred hogftieads of prime Aux Caycs
MOLASSES.
II mo. 12th dtw
HUDSON YORKE,
Scab- NO. J4, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HAVE JUiT RECEIVED,
Per the la-It arrivals from Europe,
nting A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF
Jar " DRY GOO DS,
[ Which they will dispose of on reafonablc term/',
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
" Elastic and faacy do.
,* and Caflimeres, plains, duffils
Rofeand stripe blankets well aflorted m small
balps
Furniture chintaes, cottons and dimcties
q Callimancoes, canablets, durants, moreens, and
LjO, joans
Mucins ot all kinds
Senna, Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant affdrrment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red and green hocking and wellh baizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, lhawls, printed handkerchiefs
7-8 4-4 11-8 cjiecks
9-8 & 5-4 cottoa ftripss '
Cotton, worsted and silk holiery
do do Gloves
bindings, tapes, &c. &c.
noT - 9- dißt
* * To Be Let,
And immediate pofftfftcn Given, «
D- A COMMODIOUSThreeStory Briclt Houfi|
§ with convenient back buildings, situated
at the north wefl corner of Third and Walnut
- - iireell.—For terms apply to
Ooaor Dr THOMAS p ARKE
[ those No * *°> South Fourth Street,
desired Oflober 19 dtf
iix . advertisement! "*,
?J* "fTTHEREAS Jamf.s Commimc Es* Co. late ot
Co. afligned over all their efleils, real, personal and
yixed, to the lubferibers, for the benefit of all
we for their crcditor '> who flaH fubferibe the laid aflign
ment within fix mouths from the date hereof
V NOTICE IS # HEREBY GIVEN, to all per fons
who are indebted to the said eSate, that they are ,
. required to make immediate payment of their rel
™ '" s pedive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office,
P" No. 61, Dock Ereet, in failure whereof aaions
will be instituted for the recovery of such debts a»
low or lr£ diCcharged accordingly.
firm of y° hn Travil,
ke im John Watulingtm, (
Jems Taylor, Y
?£). CtrneHus Cvmerys J
d 4 w mwft'ißPostscript. !
THE SOUTHERN MAIL,
* Which arrived at a very late
hpur, brings the following Inter
esting and agreeable details.
BALTIMORE, Nov. jo.
By the t'choooner America, capt. Vibert,
from Cadiz, 43 days, the official account of
the aftion Viet ween the British and French
fleets in the mouth of the Nile, is received
in manuscript, from on board the Ville de
Paris, admiral Jervi*.
Ville de Par it,' off Cadiz,
Sept. 17, 1798.
The commander in chief has inexpressible
happiness in communicating to the officers
seamen and marines of his majrfty's (hips
b fore Cadiz, that an aftion was fought at
the mouth of the Nile, on the firft, second
and third of August, and under the bit IT
i;ig of God and the intrepid coiiduft of the
offio-rs and crew of the squadron under the
orders of rear admiral fir Horatio Nelson,
knight of the hath, a most signal and
GLORIOUS VICTORY was obtai .ed
cvsr t'"at of Fiance, as will be the best
fern by the number of their (hips taken and
blown up, as follows :
FRENCH LINE. ' ]
Skip's ran.es Guns. Men. Fate
Le Gue ri-r, 74 700 taken |
Lt Conquerunte, 74 7CO taken !
LrSp*rtial, 74 700 taken;
L'Aquilon. 74 700 taken '
I.e Franklin, 80 800 taken
. L'Orieiit, Ijo rotoblownup \
Le Totinant, 80 800 taken 1
Le Hierreux, 74 700 takfn '
Le Timeleon, 74 7ooblownup '
Le ivfercure, 74 700 taken 1
L« Giiulauine Tell, 80 700 escaped '
I Ge l ereaux. 74 700 escaped : '
FRIGATES.
Le Diane, 48 300 escaped : '
Lt Juflict, 46 300 cfctped j '
LWrtimefe, 36 250 burnt (
I.e Scruufe, 36 250 dif. fußk !
ENGLISH LINE. !
Ships' names. Guns. Men-
Culloden, 74 J9O
Theseus, 74 590
Alexander, 74 590
Vanguard, 74 590
Minotaur, 74 640
Swiftfure, 74 590
Audaoious, 74. roo
Defence, 74 59* *
Zealous, 74 590
Orion. 74 59a
Goliath, 74 590
Goliath, 74 590 £
Bellerophon, "4 ego c
FRIGATES. r
Leander, jo
Le Murin sloop, 18 r
a
Wounded—Lieut. John Jones, Mr.Fent f
gunner 531 seamen. t-
DEFENCE. !
Killed, Three seamen, 1 marine-
Wounded, Two {camen, 2 marines.
ZEALOUS.
Killed, One seaman. j
Wounded, Nine seamen.
ORION» J
Killed, —Mr. Baird, captain Clerk, 11
seamen j I marine.
Wounded—Captain Sir Jautnarez, Kt.
Mr. Sadler Boatswain 5 3 midfliipmen ; 18
feanun, 6 marines. '
CULLODEN. I
Killed,—Non^.
Wounded,—None.
GOLIATH.
Killel, — Mr. Will'am Davis, mate jMr
Andrew Brown, midlhipman'; 12 seamen,
7 marines.
Wounded.—Lieutenant William Wilk- t
infoi), Mr. L. Travis, midfkipman ; Mr. c
Srockam School, Mr. I. Payne, midship- t
man { 20 seamen, 9 marines.
MAJESTIC. •
Killed.—Captain Weftcot, Mr. Z. Ford, .
nidfhipman ; Mr. Andrew Gilmore, boat
swain ; 3J seamen, 14 marines.
Wouuded.—Two tnidlhipmen, captain's
clerk, 124 seamen. 16 marines.
BELLE ROPHEN.
Killed—Lieutenant R. S. Daniel, lieu
tenant P. W Lawder, lieutenant G. Jol
liffe Mr. Thomas Ellifon, 3? seamen, 13
marines.
Wouuded.—Captain Derby, Mr. Ed
ward Kerby, mate; captain Hopkins, of
marines ; Mr. Chapman, boatswain ; 126
ieam«n, 17 marines. *
Memorandums This aflion took place in
Rcfetta Bay, at one of the mouths of the Nile,
with the enemy at an snchar, when the British
fleet ran in, (excepting the leading ship, the
Cullodtn, which unfortunately got on lhore)
aud anchored alongside the French with head
and stern anchors.
Lift of killed and « ounded on board the
Eniililh fleet. /
VANGUARD.
Killed—Cap ain Teddy, of Marines,;
Mr. Thomas Lcymotir and Mr. I. Taylor,
midshipmen j ao seamen, 7 marines.
Wounded—Reat Admiral Nelson, lieu
tenant Veflel and Mr. Adige 5 Mr. Camp
bell, fecreta y ; Mr. Aultia, boatswain ;
Messrs. Weatherftoo and Antrim, midfliip
men , 60 seamen, 8 marines.
THE3US.
Killed —Five seamen.
Wounded.—Oce officer, 24 seamen, 5
marines.
ALEXANDER.
Killed.—Lieutenant John Collins, 13
f amen.
Wounded—Capta ns Ball a-d Crefwell.
o' marines » Mr. Lawfon, mailer ; 2 mid
•hi| tten, 48 fiameu, 5 marines,
MINOTAUR.
Killed.—-Lieutenant fcuicher.of marines ;
Mr. John Wa'ktr, mate; 18 seamen, 3
nnji.it. •
Wounded—Lieutenants liwin and Jew
eil, of Maries ; Mr. Thomas Foxton, ad
mailer ; 2 midttiipmen, 54 fe»men, 6 ma
rine*.
SWIFTJCURE.
Killed—Seven Seamen.
Wminded—Mr. Williana Smith, matter ; J
19 Teamen, 2 mari 'es.
AUDACIOUS.
Killed—One seaman.
MINUTE OF FACTS . 1
Slated in the Dispatches 10 Lord St Vtncsnt. '
, "• The French transports ran into the Nile,
and Buonaparte landed with ouly a few day 3
provisions on hand, with about thirty eight 1
thousand men, two thousand having betn r
cut to pieces on attempt,to laud at Alexan- 3
, dria, wtiere they expe&ec a paflive reception. f
! The lall dispatches Itate, that the only sup. j
j plies Buonaparte could get were a little rice
. and water, brought to him on camels by the .
I Arabs, but that the Turks were taking mea- 1
. fures, not only to cut off this fcccour, but v
, to march againlt htm. 3
'I he crew of the Timeleon, when the ship v
took fire, attempted to save themselves on v
| fiiore, but were all cut to pieces. The !
L'Orient's people were in part, destroyed
in the fame manner, and blown up, only a 1
few escaped, prahaps into the woods te v
starve. r
i The Ftench fleet, at the time of the e
action, had only five days proviiion on 1
board. '
_ f
[We further learn by Mr. Yates who ji
j came paflenger in the America, and ,who
1 wa# favored by Admiral Jervis {limfelf with '
the official particulars above related, that
none of the transports were destroyed, hav- a
ing probably run up the bay of Rofetta in- c
to shallow water, and that nothing certain "
had transpired to unravel the fnture projefts
of Buoiuiparte, whether h? meant to fettle
down in Egypt, or whether he call his wish. P
I ful eyes on the diftaat fliore of MangaW. 11
| His situation at best appeared to be hape- 3
'ef»—h'S armed (hips captured or destroyed,
1 his transports blocked up, and his retreat ~
cut off—his provisions nearly exhausted, and '
a supply precarious at least, if not unattain
able ; and above all, pressed on every fide C
by hordes of Saracens, too barbarous to be 0
worked upon even by French delusion. e
The forebodings of the invader must for- '
cibly aflure him that the defpoiler of Italy
and the conqueror of Egppt will never be '
united in the fame man, and that he has, fur- n
tunately for the world, perhaps, left 'the
channel of Britain to peri/h on the banks of
the Nile.] a
We very confidently aflured our readers, d
fomc weeks since, chat Buonaparte's fleet
had met with a defeat, and that the French
government, by their " gag laws," had -en- 8
dtavourcd to Hop the circulation of the c
news ; but that admiral Jervis, as soon as °
the winds of the Mediterranean would ad
mil, would receive and transmit the official a!
account to England, when the world would w
faon be informed of the grairfnt j y"
! The ship Mount Vernon, of Baltimore,
left Batavia previous to the 23d July, for 0
Tanquebar.
Ccs" A stated meeting of the American f,
Pkilofophical Society, will be held at their tl
Hall, on Friday evening the 23d instant. c
Nov. 21. 3t a
MOLASSES, a
AT AUCTIOJJ. v
ON THURSDAY the ndinftant.at 13 o'clock, C)
noon, on Jeffe & Robert Wain's Wharf,will •
be fold for approved inderfed nctes at 60 Days,
A cargo of Molafles.
FOOTMAN ts", Co. Audtioneers. ■
november Jo it
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to th« Eflate of doc- 5
tor Hugh Hodge, deceased, are requested
to make immediate payment —and those having
demands against the Estate are dehred to authen
ticate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, admintjlrairix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, adminijlrator. 0
nov io f n
Imported, y
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty, h
from Hjmiurgb. a
Ticklenburghs, si
Oznabrigs, n
White Platillas fl
Brown Silefias "
Bretagnes I
Heflian Rolls t
Brown Russia Sheetings e
German Lindfeys, I
Bed Ticks, £sfc.' *
For Sale ty
GEORGE PENNOCK.
no. 103 Market-flrect.
nov 10 J
A Coachee Pair of Hor/es. j
FOR SAL E,"
On reasonable terms,
A COACHEE and pair as Horles, they may 1
be fecn at John Dunwoody's—— For
I tei ms apply at No. 96, Arch-street.
James William Miller,
A T «. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the (
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow IrisH Flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half.thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrabs, Mamoodies, Guszines, and other ,
mufiins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets, thick
fctts and fancy corjs, Tewing Clk and twist of all
colours, ferreting, bair ribbon, coloured threads, ~
India flag bwidanoes, and other black and colour
ed 01k handkerchiefs, a variety of other co tton
d«. Soutc romals, red Gilli handkerchiefs, mo - -
i«eas, (uan fj.ianinif. (uflun«, beavers, jeans, fa
tinetts and royal ribhs, also muflincts and dimities, ®
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c. 1
007. II lot '
; '1)7(585 etteT 1
1 ■■■ ' ■-' * , . a *—" ei
Hladelpuia,
I -
THURSD EVENING, NOKEMBER tt-
X
. D I> R E S S. Tl
. To the PRUDENT of the United States.
Licntm, 4<k September, 1798- So
Sir,
WE, thQfficers and Soldiers of the foi
Regiment < Militia, in the County of
' Chowan, irue Slate of North Carolina,
being this d afTcnbled in general muller,
' s and on the"eritical fitna- (
t tton of onr <intrr, which may, ere long, n3
j require our sices in the Field, avail, with ac
alacrity, of favorable an oppor'unity to ar
expref* our itiments of the present im- VV
portant crilisnd which we have the plea
. sure to afluresu are unauimous.
Well knovg the advantages and bless- '^ r
| ings oPPeacend how eflential it is to the
t welfare of o country to preserve it with th
< all nations. ' approve of the measures aii
} which ha*e en taken for that purpose P'
s with refpedt \prance, and which we anrf
, iou/ly hopedrould be effefltial ; but we a
I have fecn eve effort of onr Government f 0
treated with 4tempt: Not only one En- ci
# vtJy rejefted w(i ignotpiny and disdain. but
more solemn nbaffy of three not futfered '
. even to negocje, and a naiferr.ble attempt
j made, after va y trying to reduce them to
the meanefl cnpliances, to ditide them '
from each otj-, and carry on a delusive tc
t <hew of NegoctioD, for,th» purpose (as we 01
( folemtily belief of effecting divisions in fr
( our Country, -J deceiving it (if it could jj
be weak enougto be deceived) into an in-
aftivity of proration suited to their ma *
chinations.agail us,- but fatal perhaps to 0
our couniry foirer. f<
We have noeafon to believe that our
Government habeen in any fault, (and are
perfe£lly convincd that it has not b>;en so l !
inter.tignally) ; jus as it magnaaimondy, ;N
and with a noblefetfe of duty, offered a fair c
difcuflion of this l»je£t, and reparation if b
any injury had bai corrvmi'ted, we con. (
~fider the treatJien our Public Ministers 1
have received the highest indignity that c
Could be offered toaur country, th* moll ®
open defiance the cenmon sense of mankind j
ever yet exhibited, nd a decided proof that a
the L)ire6lory were onfeious that their con- i
dust would not ftanl an investigation, but a
that they possessed iews which they dared
not avow.
We hare read, Sr, with peculiar satis- j
faftion, rour liberj and wi'e inftruftions, I (
and are fatisfied ycu could not, without ]
dilhonor, have carritd your concessions fur- i
ther.
In this situation, therefore, insulted as our '
government has been, (a government of our
choice, and therefore peculiarly intitled to
our.proteftion), extensive as have been the
French depredations on our commerce, and
as no hope remained of Jufticeby peaceable
aceans, we highly approve of the measures
, -f -jlf 1 * • •—>—• -
viled in support of that Sovereignty and
Independence, of which we fhotild deem
ourselves unworthy, if we hesitated for a
moment to resolve t® risque every thing in
their defence against all attempts, whether
foreign or domestic ; and we rejoice that
the exertions of our couatry itl this great
conjunfture, are to be condufted under the
auspices of a Statesman who has so emi
nently entitled himfelf, by a long display of
illuftrions talents, and the mo ft confpicitou3
virtues in public and in private life, to that
confidence which the present arduous situa
tion ot public affairs indispensably require!.
By order, and in behalf of the Reriment,
RICHARD BENBURY,
Brigadier General.
ANSWER.
To the Officer! and Soldiers of the Regiment of
Militia in the county of Cbo van in theßate
of North-Carolina.
Gentlemen,
YOUR unanimous address at Edenton
of the fourth of September, has been trans
mitted to me by Richard Benburv, Esq.
your brigadier general.
After a solemn embafly of three envoys
had been denied an opportunity to negoci- j
ate, the miserable attempt to divide them ]
from each other, and carry on a delusive |
shew of negotiation, for the purpose of ef- j
fefting divisions in our country, was too I
mean and contemptible to impose upon the j
credulity of any true hearted American.'
I rejoice in the opportunity of congratula
ting you, on the ill fuccef. of that wretch
ed artifiee, both with the pfcople of Ame
rica and with the envoys, who are now all
happily returned to their country.
(Signed)
JOHN ADAMS.
Qutncy, Qaober 20.
■ •
DONATIONS
Received by thfc>Committee for the relief of
the sick and infirm poor in the city and
suburbs.
r 12 barrels rye flour from the inhabitants of
Mardin Creek Town/hip, Bucks county
forwarded by Thomas Lightfoot.
8 Barrels of rye and buckwheat meal from
j the inhabitants of East Nantville and Co
ventry townships, Chester county, for
. ! warded by Samuel Rea.
One hundred dollars from the Students of
Princeton college, forwarded by [. A.
Pearfon.
, By order of the Committee,
EDWARD GARRIGUES,
„ „ „ President. •
Attest, Peter Barker, Clerk.
[ 11 mo. 17, 1798.
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN,
• WHO under (lands Cocking, and Housework
generally. Enquire tt No. 109, Walnut ilreet
' oovembcr i\ 6t
jta tejforctgn j!set»S. °;
eiTtjters from bngliih continued.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Aug. 10. P 1
Within these few days the Proclamation has pi
been made public, which Buonaparte ifTued in
the Arabic Language, on h s landing in Egypt.
The following is a faithful translation of i. : w
" In the name of God, gracious and metci
* f u l.—There is no God but God ; he has no J
Son nor alTociate in his kingdom '
"»« The present moment, which is deltmed
e for the puni'hment of the Bevs, has been loDg L
f aaxioufly expefied, The Beys commp from c ;
the Mountains ot Georgia ar.d Hajari, hive oe- .
folated this beautiful country, long infu'ted ahtj
' treated with contempt the French nation, and
" npprefled her merchants in various ways. Buo
'» naparte, the General of the French Republic,
l» according to the principles of liberty, U now d(
0 arrived, an t the Almighty, the Lordot both j„
Worlds, has sealed the dtftrufii not the Beys. a
" Inhabitants of figypt. when the lievstell
you the French are come to dollroy ym.r Re I- f
-ion, believe them not: it is an abfnlnte fall
'* hood. Answer those Deceivers, that thev a: e
e nnlv come to rescue the rights of the poor from n<
h t he ; hands of their tyrants, and that the French dt
s adore the Supreme Being, and honor the Pro- ft
- e phet and Irs holy Koran. .
, " All men are equal in the eyes of God: tin-
•' derflanding, ingenuity and fcjence, alone mtlce
e a difference between them ; as the Bays, there
it fore, do not poflifs any of these qualities, they nc
I- cinnn; be worthy to govarn the country. tl
it * 4 Yet are they th*' o'lly poitc.fors of exten- g[
r j «ve trarfls of land, beautiful female flave<, ex- o]
cellent horses, magnificent palaces ! Ha«ethcy u
then received an exclusive privilege from the
° Almighty? If so, Jet them produce it. Rut
11 the Supreme lMng, who is Jutl and mercitwl C 1
f e towards all mankind, wills that in future none
re of the Inhabitants of Egypt (hall be prevented ft
in from attaining to the firft employments and the j j
ij highest honors. The administration, which
(had be conduced by persons of intelligence,
talents, and forefight, will he produilive of hap
-- pinefs and lecurity. The tyranny and avarice
:o of the Beys have' laid watie Egypt, which was "
formerly so populous and well cultivated. n
jr " The French are true MufTelilien. Notlong it
re since they marched to Rome, and overthrew- j,
r the throne of the Pope, wbo excited the Chris- jj
tians against the PrAfefibrs of Iflamilm (the
Y' Mahometan religion)» Afterwards they diredl
lir ed their course to Malta, and drove out the un< 11
if believers, whoimagiaed they were appointed hy
n. God to make war on the MuiTelmen. The b
rj French have at all times been the true and fin- c
at cere friends of the Ottoman emperors, and the t
a enemies of their enemies. May the empire of
the Sultan therefore be eternal ; Wu.t may the
1 Beys of Egypt, ouroppofers, whose infatiabje
at avarice has continually excited difobedierir.e and e
n- insubordination, be trodden in the dull, and 1
ut annihilated 1 ! • t
c( j " Our frjendlhip (hall be extended to those of x
the Inhabitants of Egypt, who (hall join us, r
as also to those wh« (hall remain in their dwell-
"" iogs, and observe a ftri£l neutrality ; and when
1 *» they have seen our condufi wish their own eyes, '
ut hasten to submit to us ; but the dreadful pun- , 1
ir- ifhnlent of death awaits those who £hall take up t
arms for, the Beys, and against us. For them j
, ur there (hall be no deliverance, nor (hall any trace
of them remain. I
" Art, I. All places which (hall te three
r° leagues fliflant from the route of the French '
" e army, (hall fend one of iheir principal inhabi- '
nd tints to the general, to declare that they submit
ble and will hoist the French flag, which is blue t
res white and red.
*, >■ «4 a -V fl.-ll •
lf)( j rhe French army, (hall be burned t» the ground.
" Art. 3. E<ery vilhge whkh (hall submit
to the French, (hall hoist the F>ench flig f and
r a that of the Sublime Porte, their Ally, whose
in duration be eternal. .
Iter " Art. 4. The Sbeeks and principal nerfons '
bat each town and village, (hsllfeal up the ht>uf-'
eat cs and effedts of the Beys, and take care that
. not the Jmalleft article (hall be loft.
. " ytri. 5. The Jiheika, Cadis, and Imam,
[n '- (hall continue to exerrife their refpeflive fuse- j
of tions j and put up their prayers, and perform !
auj theexercifes of religious worihip in the Mofqucs
hat antl houses of Prayer. All the inhabitants of
ua- f-BVP' offer up thanks to the Supreme Be
es '" g> an(l P ut "P P ubl!c prayers fer the dcftrnc
tion of the Beys.
> " May the Sirprems God make the glory of
the Sultan of the Ottomans eternal, pour forth
his wrath on the Mamelukes, and render glori
ous the destiny of the Egyptian nation !"
tof DUBLIN, September 22.
late Inftru&ions have been ttanfmittcd'o gen.
Hutchinfon. commanding a force of 1500
men at Cafllebar, to adt in the mo ft vigo
ton rotis manner against those rebels, who, not
tnf. withltanding the defeat of their allies and
;fq. the deflruaion of their friends, dill conti
nue to diftrafl, br their depredations and
oys outrages, the northwest parts of the county
)c i. jof Mayo.
irm j Guards have been this day placed on the
fire | several bridges leading to the county of
e f. j Wicklow mid its vicinity to prevent any of
too i the rebels who may be chafed out of those
the | r arts by the military now scouring the coun
:an. try. from effecting their cfcape through this
ula- c»y.
ch- This day gen. Lake is expeae* to set out
me . for the county of Wicklow, in order by a
all system of decisive and perfeverit.g measures
to accomphlh the rednftion of Holt and
the difgraceful banditti who have hitherto
kept ahve the rebellion in the county of
Wicklow. J
~ t Wcd " efda y a inoffenfive taan named
i James M.ley, was feited by a party of the
sos Wicklow rebels, as he was favirg his little
and Cr °P ° f ha )' 00 th « lands of Mergaftowt-.
J and placed against a wall by the mercilef.
sof ™ , H3 > who fire<! at him and lodged three
lt y ballsin his head.
The county of Wicklow ig ft ill to
rom the dfpredations of Holt'* and Hacket's
Co " § # , ngS ' , Some da y flnce a party of those
for- r«- PCra el' well mounte 4 and armed, eo,',-
l.ting of about 50, not content with |)»y.
10F '»? before carried off the stock, and Tany
A . things of value from Bailybegg, (the pro
perty of the rev. Richard Symes)'returned
there so early as fire o'clock on Sunday
evening, having heard that feme yeoman
' ftaUoned ther C ic and
the adjacent country, and" in a few hour, re
duced to athes, with theg eateft part off.
£l n ' tU rh "' ai , ,nc, " t ar ' d refpeftable man
tury X r idx;nCC "P w ards of a cen
°rk of^ BCfd * y c ' ,i^ht ab3ndi «'. composed
t of about 40 0 f Holt', mifcreatiti, pe.^etra
into tbc ne 'gt»bourhood of Ce'lbridge,
and committed the mcft wanton depred,,-
, ons on the property of several . tu
and peaceful inhabitants Amn o "° u i
who fuffered. Mr. Cruse ofT? **
Mr. Peppard of
plundered, not only 0 f ta fh anH
, but also of furniture and cattle. Pr ° V ' 6w, »
September 2«.
At twelve o'clock tk;»
was. brought into Court J" o ,™"#
» journment from Thurfday 1 " "u™ 1 '° ™ ad '
dtfence, which occupied three fnf hU
5 Lawyers have afierteH l• ' many
» cions of the jurifdiaio'n of\ h ' m £ l,td fufpi "
, phatically contrasting the nrt ' em
t. the superior chances he tmVht l> i- Wltll
,by the Civil Law. The 5 ''* tr,ed
V defence was, however concifc m 0 fa*
mg, that having been bred in France th I"
:• a native of Ireland, he enters ' , hou S h
the Republican army, wher h lnto
some rank ; that at the time
e expedition to this , ountry wa , ™ C J»
n he was at Rochelle, where he r ''
e refufal would not only be certain J . 1
• h 7" ba ; " am P his "«me whh ,„f*
v adverted, as an extenuating circle e T a
the humanity of his conduft si„ cc hi. a / ry
~ al ln Ireland, as appeared by the t ft"
■ of hi. Prafccuior j ~d co»clod t 4 »:'"X
> ufojl armour of „»„« „„ , '
|t mercy of the Court, and f om£ w",
,1 compliments to the Lord Lieutenant
'j , Ht „ was Darft, though „ ot
h *
> LONDON,'September jr.
' c u- A L e ™ h to Buonaparte j„
M his Arabic Proclamation, are true M <ri
»™. Aii,i,e;,h.«ni,;, oc vr4"»
!* ' ts P rofe(r ° rs ' W S ™y therefore conclude"o
I onginated solely in a desire to t U a u
jc lilh the religion of mahomet at Paris
- ft mentioned in the' a fl ioB
Wf TX l i C " ~a r bf tWf « Admiral
,y Nelson and the French fleet, is a corruption
le byth* French of the Italian word Bic
n- chierre, being the name given by the Franki
of to r everal h.IU on the coast to the east of
he Ale * a " dna > from the refemblauce they bear
Je to glafi tumblers reversed and so called ev,
ld er hnce the Crusades. This coast has no
id harbor, but an open roadfted, as defnhM
fby the French, and indeed the only I *
ot where so large a number of transports could
ride in a "y Safety, as the winds are ii.varij
ea ble during the summer falftiee, that is from
, s> the 15th of June to September, from N. to
n . _ U. E. and N. W. being the Etesian wind
up mentioned by Herodotus, as blowing in that
:m period 100 days.
lce The Dutah Gazettes, and also letter*
. et from Amsterdam of the 12th ialt. received
ch on Monday, mention that an engagement
bi. had taken place between the Englift and
nit French fleets in the Mediterranean ; and
lue that Adi.iral Nelson had arrived !n Naples
Bay with eight fail of French (hips. He
Ac Lcander, of
SO Rurts, with the news to lord St. Vincent.
0 ,1 t>u decided and deep is the court of N*.
°f e pfes in its hatred to the French, that the
French papers fay, a great number of ra
»n» tives of France have been forced to quit the
b U af " Neapolitan territories. '« It is only," U,
a Par'Gail joumalift, "through friendlhip
ni, Spain, and a remnant of regard for the
Bc . emperor, that the blow against Naples has
rm not yet been flruck. But our troops arc
ues advancing towards her froirtiers, and will be
° f able to invade her territories upon the firll '
Sr. f '^ U '
An embargo has, by order of the Frrnch
of direftory, been lately laid on all the princi
rth pal ports republic ; in eonfequence
3 ri- of which geneial fir Charles Grey dispatch
ed orders to every regiment ftatianed in the
district under his command, which have
been lir.ee publicly read by officers at the
en. head of every troop and company. The
00 orders are very long, but their chief pur.
3° port is, for the troops to hold themselves in
ot- j readinefsto march at the fliorteft notice and
ind as free as poflible of all incumbrances, be
"l- yond a neceflary change of linen, &c.
ir, d The draught at present is so great in
France, that they have deiifted in Paris from
watering the flreets, and the riveri are in
" e m»ny placds said to be dry.
°f T' 16 or 'S' Ba ' P'an of the French for in«
of vading Ireland was, to fend three fquadrpn*
0 e to sea at one and the fame time—cne from
un- Rochfort, (which got clear of our cruiaers»
" ls and. after being seventeen days at sea. land
ed General Humbert and his banditti at
3ut Killala) ; a second was to fail from Dun-.
> a kirk ; and a third from Bird.
r " This afternoon, MefTrs. Aubrey, Dela
ln rue. and llamel, late Members of the Le
rt° giflative Bodies in France, and transported
°* from that country with General Picheqrti
and Barthelcmy, were brought to town from
' on board the Nimble Cutter. Titefe gen-.
1 j l ' tlemen were taken late in the evening to the
te Duke of Portland's • Site, and from thence
to the Alien office, in Down-ftre't, Weft
c s minilJer. Geneial Pichegru at present has
ree apartments at an in the Adelphi.
Baraguay d'Hilliers and Capt. Btrgeret
,0 were arrelted immediately on their tetiirn
1 s to France, and are now confined in the
Tfmple.
av
iny from a Pari: Paptr.
ro- A ruriotn experiment was made not long
»ed since cn the Seine, at Paris. Twelve fol
lay diers entered the water ill order of battl"»
lan and with the aid of a machine, wltic'' em
ind bracti the body, they travetfed the Seine
re- with great celerity, and after having drai>n
its up in a platoon oi» the opposite bank, they
an- re-entered the Kver, and in the middle of it
ea- set up a fire of mufquetry well filftained, and
charged with bayonets, tl(6ugh
fed iftider them at lead 21 feet of water. Be
ra- fidfj the weight of t\e me», this machine
ge, will carry a burthen of five myriagrammcs,vl
without fwhiag I Tli •in?ent«r is Citi/.en qi
Man|?n, AdjutAMi-Gentrsl w.th the Mini- 11
fter of the Interior. Fi
NAPLES, Augud 12. m
A I.etter from Florence, dated Augud ha
ai.f'ys, According to letters from N-iples,
the French C d'Affiirs has given in a oc
• xote .t . the Neapolitan Mi"idry. iri which to
he protrfts again!! the admission of the En?- co
li(h fleet into the harbouri of Sicily, andde- so
clares it witt be considered as a breach of the wl
treaty of peace. —French troops are conu'nu- gs
ally on their march towards the Neapolitan fe
frontiers." ,rl
T!ie King of the Two Sicilies has this Fi
day iflued the following Proclamation : th
«< The great alterations which within these w:
few years have taken platfe, both in the po- vii
litic:il Stuation and in the organization and fp
taflics of the military force, have induced b>
us to turn our attention to the re-organiza- cil
tion of th- army and other military force of va
the country, in order to provide for the de- fel
fence of our States and the protection of the on
livrs and pr-perties of our fubjefis. In this C
V view we have fr ;m time to time adopted m;
meaf*»es to bring tiie royal tusbps to that ne
degree of perfection of which they are ca a- p«-
blet The abfolnte neciffity of augmenting ;'ni
the power of the State, and (what is much qo
more) rendering it efFe'ljve, becoin s morf no
urgent, since the Italian States our neigh
bours, have affnmed a fcollile appearance- gv
The States of Barbary, too, hr.ve in a parti- rt.
ciil r manner: iince ttie late occurrences at
Malta, doubled their audacity which mull w;
■excite w apprsihet fiopi for the ha
fafety ofonr kingdom In urdrr therefore T
to oppose a powerful barrier to the attempts J'.c
which either one or t.he other of thnfe po- do
wers may make againit our States., it appear) I d'
oeceiraiy to augment the regular force in ze
Sicily, which appears particularly threatened fh
In order therefore, to oppose an .invincible
barrier again ft all attempts, we have deemed tn
it fitfceflsrv to declare by the present E nfl, tli
that a,H males iu our dominions are born sol
diers, and are b"und to take up arm* in de- fu
fence; of our hn]y religion, the crown and oj
their own life, in cafe these sacred objects la
fhou!} be attacked by barbarians, or any
other Jioftile nation. In coifequence of this h:
firiucip'e all our fubjefts from the age of 17 "
to 45, are to be confirtered as if they had /S
been enrolled in the different corps of the tl
army, |ud if circum(lancesrtquire,.they mtift ft
join tin; corps for the performance of a£tual f<
military service. We, ourfclves, as wtll as h
his Royal Highness our son, are comprehen- T
ded in tjiis airolment, and we (hall be the ti
firft to fV.crifice our lives in defence of our n
Religion, the Monarchy, and our Country." cl
This edi't was pubiifhed on the receipt fc
of a courier from Naples Every thing de- ,h
pends, therefore, upon the issue of the dif- w
putes between the court of Vienna and the m
French go»«rnmeat. If Austria continues
at peaee we also may expeft tranquillity. p
ft
VIENNA, September j. F
It is now asserted that prince Repnin will re
not hare tliP/Wnmand of the Ruffian army di
•whieh is on its merch, but that it will be tl
given to prince Ferdinand of Wurtemberg. It
The adjutant-general of his imperial majffty, h
baro > Vincent, has been feet to meet the ir
Ruffian troops, and accompany them thro' le
the A«i!trian Hereditary grates. At the it
iame time a considerable Ruffian corps, un- p
<Jer the command of field marshal Suwarrow, lc
will march irto I urkey'to restore tranquil- I
lity there ; while another army*of Ruffians. I
"in coniun&L»n with the Turks, will.be cm- t
ployed agaiofl Buottapjrte.
a
FRANKFORT, September 11. 1
Notwithftandirig all the alarms of war of 0
the lad week, we are now very quiet. The h
French reiuain >s they were, a»d are prin- 1
eipilly employed in rjifing contributions n
and reqniiitions. t
The artillery is gone back to Wcilburg
The troops which had been assembled at 1
frr eral points have likewise marched back : <
the head quarters are (till at Friedberg. The 2
ttijmber of French troops roljeifted on the I
Upper and Lower Rhine, is edimated at J
100,003 men. t
1
LONDON, September 27. 1
The Pjiris papers having been the firft to
gite an account of the battle betw:en the !
Britifli and French fleets, and .that intelli- 1
1 jence being confirmed by another account '
received from our minider at Conflantinople, '
does away all doubt of an adtioij having
taken place. ' Mr. Smith, hav'ng the bed J
means of information, -would not deceive 1
our court, or lie i-iimfelf deceived : he mud '
have had the mod politive belief of the faft
before tie tranfmittcd it to government ; 1
and adminiftratioß mall have had an entire 1
rclirnce upon its truth, before they publtfh- I
■«d the intelligence in the (hapc of an official '
hul'etin. '
The following, w ich is an extraft of a '
private letter from Constantinople, dated '
Aug. 21, seems to give a t/iorv minute ac- !
count o- Buonaparte's landing in Egypt,
than ar\ we have betore received : 1
«Ti rtlgy He Divan been previously 1
informed Of tiie French intending to invade 1
Egypt /e t by many of its members this 1
\ report was deemed a mere fidian. inve -ted 1
10 diflurb the good un-lerllanding which '
lias so 10-ig fubfitled between the Ottoman 1
Porte a>d France. Their aftonilhment was '
therefore extreme, wh'.n they were officially '
irquainted with thd Fr«>ch hasring adually 1
effected a drfrent near Alexandria. The j 1
particulars of 1 hi# event are as follow :
" The Toision flee:, having for some
l.roe cniiled in the /\rchip»lag», appeared
before Alexandria, and the Frei.ch demand- '
ed to be received as friends. The muflel
man, wlto commanded in that city, made
»trytlrong lemoni'.ratices agaiull their pio
jefted landing, endeavouring to convince
that any attempt of that kiild would
he confidcrsd as an attack *n the right of
i>»vertigniy of the Grand Seignior, 011 the
privileges of the coutfiry, and on the tran-
quillity and fafety »>f tiie ni'ubilaiUs. Bat j
••11 hit rerr.onflra -res proved fruitlfss : the j in
French lande i in different piaces about cc
22 000 men, notwithftandiig the refillance th
made y the Egyptian tro ps. and the in- of
habitants of the country
"Two days after,the French intending to R
occupv a pod to the right of Alexandria
towards Rofctta they were surprised by a th
corps of about 6000 Egyptian horfe,,and Wi
some th Mifand foot, commanded by a Bey zc
who e ijoycd the reputation of a brave and 'e
gallant soldier. The engagement laded a
few hour!,' and the Bey was forced 10 re- . a ., (
treat wit l, Jersble loss, though the vei
French fufferci likewise considerably j and
their loss was more frvercly felt, as they ® ! i(
were unable to repair it. This aftion con- ,h,
vinced Buonaparte of the fentiuieiits of re
fped entertained for him by the Arabs, and
1 by the Egyptian troops He called a coun
cil of War, the reful of which was, to ad- ~
" vance beyond Rofetta, and to entrench him
felf about 10 or t2 leagues from that town,
on the banks of the Canal which leads to 1
C;iiro. 111 thN position, he IfTued a procla
mation, and endeavoured to f*t on foot a
negotiation with the Beys, who, howtver,
pi-remptorily rrfufed ro treat with him, but, w
infilled on his r embarkiHg hi troops, and
qaitiing th dominions of the Grand Seig
n° r -
" In thi,' fnuation were the affairs of E-
gvpt on the departure of the lad acconnts n,
received fiom that counlty. B
" In our cty we heari ot" nothing but
war, though no declaration to that effect
has as yet b en iflued by our government. —
The most vigorous Wrirlik-.' preparations are,
however, made both by sea and land. Un- q,
der these - ircumHanccs, the French Charge
d'affaires, as wtll as the other French citi-
1 zens residing hcte, keep at home, lead they
I fh vild be imtilitd by the mob."
The Hamburgh ma l has brought an ar
ticle of information, which though not of
, the very firll importance, is nevertheless a
- "ery curious prcduflion a proclamation if n(
- sued by Buonaparte, which is a mailer piece
1 of revolutionary hypoctify. This general
s lalt year profeifed the utmod refpeft for the c<
r '-'ope, though at the fame timt he robbed
s him of his dominions; las now declares
j " that he henovrt the Prophet and hii holy c '
1 Koran," at the very- moment that h.2 invades 0
e the country inhabited by his mod zealous
t followers, and mod fervent But
1 so far from his hypocritical proclamation a
s hiving made the lead impression on the cc
. Turks, favourable to the republican adven
t turers, the mod vigorous prepuations are
r made throughout the Turkish dominions to
' check their further progress. It is ihere
t fore undeniable that he finds himfelf in an
. t h°^ e country, where he is likely to meet
with obdacles far more numerous and infur
t mouncable than he expefted.
s It will be recollected thatgen. Buonaparte
previous to his quitting Italy, gave a Con
ilitution to the Cisalpine republic. The
French Direiftory, it would seem, is now
1 resolved to take advantage of his absence to
r dedroy his work by the agcncjrofM.TTOTrve
: the DireStorlal Envoy at Milan. The eon
. (titutional party of the Legislative Body 31
, has feat gsn. Lahoz to Paris to oppose the w
e innovations intended by Tiouve, who in a
' letter to the Directory, has dtsounced the "
e manoeuvres of the ambassador, ,aad com
- plained of a handful of ruffians holding regu
, lar meetings in tie house of citizen Ti ouve.-
I- Instead of receiving any fort / fat! faction,
1, Lahoz was ordered to quit Paris within
i- I wmty-four hours.
Lucien Buonaparte, at the head of the a
anti dire&orial party in the Council of Five
Hundred, has el'.qu:ntly defended the work j
if of his brother. .On a late motion of order, ;
le he founded the toc/in, againd the dif ofitions v
1- of Government, which under the specious | I
is name of reform, evidently drove to bring on I
ruin He said, the French conflitution it- j 1
r fclfwas threatened with similar innovations, |
it by the Dire&ory, and on the point of being : '
: overthrown in the fame manner. Altnod ' t
le all the members demanded that his speech t
le should be printed ; the devotees of the '
ic Directory fucceed<d In caiiting the comic 1 '
to be resolved into a secret committee, in - '
which Buonaparte's motion was disposed of ]
by the order of the day.
0 From all the recent proceedings of the 1
e Ottoman Por.te, it may be confidcred as hav. ]
i. '"g "iitually, if not formally declared war
lt againd Franpq. Among other afts of hof- !
tility, it dated to have iflued a Firman, !
forbidding the fev^ralCommandants in tlic
Archipelago to admit any French (hips of
re war or into the ports of that quar
d ter
a The great r part of the Aurtrian millta
. ry force in Bohemia has been ordered to ad
_e vance, as their place is to be supplied by a
part of the Ruffian troops on their march
a j to the frontiers of BV«emia—lt is added, i
that all the places throt>gh which the Ruf
a fian, troops have passed, and where they 1
.j have dopped bear ample testimony to their :
c . good behaviour.
c It ii to the credit of our a 'vices, that they
do not proceed to the fame extent as the
ly intelligence from France refpe&ing Admi
ral Nrlfon's vidtory The French date, ths 1
j a their fleet has been engaged and destroyed ;
the Britilh miniderat Constantinople, hrings
.jj the bidory down to the burniHg of one large
in to'P art wc to suppose, that the French 1
as have added the remainder of the mrratire,
for the pmpofeof representing themfelvjj as j
ly moie weakened, more disgraced, more beji
tic ten > ,h an mey really were ? Certainly, no.
By account* the Continent avijry j
ne '''ing s agrv': upon so the S.ipreme Go
td vernnient of the Catholic Church at the
d- death us the Pcpt. As soon as that
e l. event takes place, the Italian, German, and
Hungarian ArchL:fhbps will be declared
i>- Cardinals, its will proceed to the tllction
ce ->fa new P,-pe it is thought th it the
Id choice will fall upon the Archtiukc Maxi
uf mman, of Cologne,
he f' le funds ait Paris bars risen oflat<- un
der an idea that the period of a g<«iicr*l
peace is not far dillant.
<
IA lette;-from of the nth
instant ftatm, tint aiothcr Ruffian squadron f
. composed "f seven men of war, is arrived in J
: j the Baltic, and has cast anchor in the bay '
j of Kioge ,
i The Pofnaiia Gazette fays, that prince v
i j Repnin had gone from Dresden to Vienna, c
Ito negociate a pa(Ta*e for 60,050 Ruffians, e
| throßgh Gallici*, and Austria, to unite *
! wiih the Auliri-in-on the frontiers ®f Swit- '
zcrland. Several Ruffiau regiments had al-
ready arrived in Gallicia. 3
The report-ir» the last French papers of a Negoci- j
ation for Peace bein* on the laois between Portugal
! a:\d Fiance, is corroborated bythe intelligence recei
ved vellerdav hom Hamburgh (Tim**.)
The la e Grand Master of Malta refHea near Trierte,
#r an eftarr belonging to ine Rnßi ri Resident. A v
great number oi the Knights of Mil's hiv- taken up
their abode in the neighbourhood of Trieft*
■ ■rr.y.rj—r- I
Ullj t <!sa3Ctte* I
r
PHILADELPHIA . *
t
THURSDAY EVENING, NOrEMHER »». 1;
*" # The Eaflern Mail had not arrived c
when this Paper luent to Press.
PRICES OF STOCKS. <
Philadelphia, November 21.
Six Per Cent. ' it/i
Three Per Cent.
' Deferred 6 Per Cent. liJ4
B KNK United S tates, n advance. (
— Pennsylvania, 22 ditto J
— North America, 50 ditto v
Infuraiue comp N. A. (hares 50 dit'o £
Pennfylva"fa, Pure*, 40 ditto
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
On I.ondon, a 30 days 60
at 60 days jf7 j
at 90 days _5 S
Amsterdam, 60 days per guilder, 38 cent?.
go days. f
1 d
: Major Wm. Smith, M. C. from South jj
, Caroliua, commonly called Smith of Pinck- 1
ney, we are happy to find has civ;n place v
. to a better man. This is Mr. Nott.
I N. B. The said Smith of Pinckney vot- '
. ed for LYON.
j It is high time for the people of Ameri
ca to open their eyes tq the machinations
6 of the mul daring set of villains that ever in- j
( felled civilized society.
t The United Irishmen of Europe used as
, a pafs-wprd the my (Heal term, EUpbismatis,
. containing the following horrible oath— J
E very 1
L oval '
; I rifb
Protestant ,
. H eretick
1
S ball
M urder ,
. AW 1
T Lis
I
7 S wear.
3 When we fee similar schemes already t»-
c lreduced amoßgft us, diffinguifhed from
_ those of Ireland, only by greater,.daring
and atrocity, it is time to awake,—left whilst
[ we sleep, THIS. DAGGER CUTS.
a Down with the Unhed Irifhmwi. i Down
e with these Foreign Counter-Hevolutionifts 1
. Down with these men of Blood !
-V COMMUNICATIONS.
n Citizens of Philadelphia >
A l*Teetin£ oi.tlie United Irithmen has been
e j announced ycfterday through the medium of
e | Mrs Bache's pauer—iris therefore asked what
. | can be the intention of a meeting io defoliated ?
1 Is it for the purpose of forming plans for the
r » : introduction of a fvftem tijis country, by
is | which similar aflociations haveruinedthat oftheir
is J bivth—a ivftem too which would have brought
, n some of the leading charaflers in this society to
t- | Gibbet, had t».ey not fle.l from thence and
1 loiind an alylum here, rtut it is un-nfceiTarj to
1 ask vvhat their intentions are tkeir obie«n i; evi
j? J dent. Ailing, in as much as they can, under
the intrigues ot France, for which no doubt some
.h of thsm arc welLpaid, and fine promises mvie
le toothers, they unite in efforts to t wkk
. j ed dsfigns of that nation of of re
[n ducing us to the wretched Uat? of the »nf.,rtu
nf '. Ut , e Genevans the views of their brethren in
Ireland were the fame.
Americans beware ! Look upon these Unit
e e! ' Inlnmen, whatever appearances they 'iiav
v. put on, even with Cockades in thsir hats, as so
ar many ferpqnts within your bofotn. I know n,i
if. "X °f thein, and 1 know their sentiments to be
n, ' a, "" calour happy go jerament—l know al
hc •lit ll ' , ever '"fy I 11 "® an opportunity, they
will be ready to j jin your enemiej in plundering
you or your hsueft and well earned property,
ir and to subjugate you to the greatest tyrannv
that has evercurled the world. I rac an France':
a _ and this I fay fri>m ch - knowledge I have of i'e
veral ot them—such has been the condufl of
fomc, and ne wi!h of the whole of them, to
warJs their own country—what then can we ex
j P ea L f '°"' thcm here ? Be convinced of these
a, truths, Philadrlphians, and k?«p z
if- watch over United irillimen—hi perl'naded that
;y they arc yourenemiea—they talk loudlv of their
;ir »"acho«nt to this country,but believe them not;
it is only a mifk t > cover cUligns formed againlt
your rights and liberties, witch they will throw
J off the moment they can attempt with any de
he degree of laftty so carry their plans into execu
-11. tiou—as the United Irilhmen in Ireland hare
' ont * Si Loyal Irijhmau.
g 3 Mr. Fenno,
AS the Loyal Iri/hman in your paper of yef
•h terday has given the My flic al meaning only, of
" f the I>if « words of Ihe Right Boyi er United lrijh
' tntn, you are hereby liKiulhed with the ojicvjible
as mctnmg with which they impofeon noviciatei.
*■ Saoirse ach or Aught,
Means i* ret, but, like the word notorious, it
r y is for the molt part ul'ed in a bad sense ; for it
o also means BaTenel* and Licentiousness.
Coura MACH or Augh,
at Mea«i»a Kuttic, a Clown or f Leveller, or
1 o Equality.
Cobromacha.
Meat s an Uncivililicd, or a iirotal Wretch
lie From the; ♦ words compounded, are made the
paf.-woid* ~f yelter.iay, and by a change of
two or three Letters only, will be found the
n IJublin Sign and Countcrfign,
a | CODROMAGHT AUGHT.'
jtn Irijhman.
(
A certain J'jcobi ■ hippenin.rin company v.-it'h
fevnaj gentlemen, last evening, was exulting
at the good lack of Buonapffrte in setting fate
to Alexandria, and ouf with gr"eat per-
fpiruity thi facility with which he
the Ktd'Sea. when be was interrupt d Uy a ferJ
vant handing in your Gazette of- Mahday which
on« of the gen'lrmen 011 calVing his eye over,
exclaimed, th.it the French had ailually got to 1
the Red Sea. I told you so ; I tola you so, said '
the Jasohin do let us have it. Read on, do read '
on, but alas, h w great ** as h : s canfufion and
disappointment on learning that it was the Red _
Sea that Admiral Nelson had soused the poor c j.
devils in.
fMIIB. ?A'. «
her ig.
It is faiJ, that while General Pinckney,
with his la«ly and family, were in this city
on Monday last, o*l their way to Philadel
phia, Doftor Logan happened at the fame
Inn with them; and that the General,
>vifhing to expedite his journey, had propo
sed, in the hearing of Logan, to take the
stage, and leave his family to trarel on at
their leisure ; when this fellow, L >gan, the ti(
late illegitimate, ffiurious, or bajlard ENVOY w
to the French Republic had the unparalleled K
efFrontry to offet the General a Teat in Nil P :
carriage.
dsasette Marine %ift.
Port of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED, Days.
Ship Neptune, Jeffreys, Bats via 115
Brig Augustus, Smith, Jago de Cuba
Schooner Daphne, Rip!y> Hava^na
Sch. Fa.voTi:c, Shaw, Pcrildud lO j r "
Sally, Lieut, Nru burvpOn 10 }
Frienß(hip, Weft, , N. Caro ina 7 j 1,-
Little tieify, Welln, Kithmraond u 5
Ann, Loughead, (wiih ihe mail) Cliar'ellon 8 i
Sloop Nancy, Mafely, Ncw-Yot k 5 61
Arrived Jail evening at Gloucester Point, the fh.u ui
Nep u»ie. Jeffries, from Bdtavia, failed from thence the • tc
da\ before the Clenpatia Captain Jeff ies infoinu, 1 h
that on the 3d of »n let 13, to, S. long. 88, E. jj
he pa'ten from the (hip Asia, Morgan, from Batavia to \ j* c
Philadelphia, all well* Offthe cape «»f Good Hope j w
was boarded by a British cruifcr andpolirelv treated.
On Saturday last off'he Capes of Virginia spoke the
Ihtp Sally.Gelfton, from Honduras to Pniladtlphia,
ail well-
To be Sold at Audlion,
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER, *
On THURSD AT, the 13th December next,
At the Bunch of Grapes Tavern, 111 BOSTON,
j>rc«if;ly at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand, J
Signed by Kelly and Clark, and indorsed by o
Martin Kinflcy, Thomas Barber and Jsmes Green- cl
leaf, dated December 18, 179J, and payable the G
id day of January, 1799, viz. h
One Note forthree thousand fix hundred dollars, a
and one Note for four thousand eight hundred >
dollars.
Bollon, november 14 (la)
VENDUE,
On THURSD AYnnextt t the i<)th inflant, at ten
o'clock in the morning (weather permitting)
Will be exposed to sale,
at the house lately occupied by Mrs. Lockyer,No.
i4.fouth Secsnd street,
Houfhold Furnitarc,
Kitchen Utensils, and
Fire-wood (best baron oak) a- 1
bout 12 corda,
Note, all beds and bedding are excluded from the
' sale; they have been removed some time since,
and the house has been thoroughly purified.
Connelly £5? Co. Aucfrs
Philadelphia, november 12, 1'79?
A Lease of the House lately oc-
by Slifanna Lockjrer, at a moderate rent,
! for about 7 years, one of the best Hands in the city, ,
f together with tho whole or p>rt of a Oock of goods
t in an excellently eftablifted trade, unexceptionable
j in quality or afTrrcment. Oh the goods a literal
credit will be given if required.
Nathan A. Smith 7
John Dorfiy I Executors.
' '
• WANTED TO PURCHASE,
The time of a black Boy,
Between ton and fouyteen yearn of age, and wh© has
c actuhorned to waiting on tahli Enquire
p at the office of the Gazette of the United States.
nnv, 12
FOR. SALE,
Fo he EXCHANGED for property within thirty
n mi cs of rhec'ty.ortn let on gr. und-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
v In Philadelphia,
• 0 Enquire of William M. Biddle.nc. 147, Chefnut
i- street.
nov 31 §
THE SUBSCRIBERS, .
y To the City Dancing Assembly,
? /\ K E requ«;tcd to meet at GEller's Hotrl, on
', 11 Monday evening next, at 7 o'clock, for
y the purpose of eleiling Managers,
i By order of th: late managers, "
• JAMES CELLEHS.
if nov at
—
L" THE Committee who were ap
' pointed by a number of citizens to take into conl'l
deration, and ruport what mcafufes are proper to
I' ic adopted co prevent a riturn of like calamities,
: 1 ind to preserve tee health of the city, requests their
'i conflituenti and others, to mjet at the Common
It Jouncil Cha nber, at th« City Hall, on Friday
A' .•.veniug next, at half pa it 6 o'clock, to receive the
- report of their said committee, and to determine
1- <-hat farther meafurc*are to be pursued
Levi Hollirisworth, Chairman.
Nov. a
f C - THE OFFICE
,f OF the Committee appointed to su
perintend the building of the Frigate, is
,c again opened at No. 95, South Front
Street, where attendance will be given
it to receive the fubferiptions of those gen
lt tleman who have not yet made payments,
november 12. dtf
Dobbin & Roberts,
TATLORS,
ESPECTI?ULLY ii.fornn theirCuftomers, and
e iV the Fubiic in general, tliat they have rccno
ved from I'o. ri 4,
e l\o. 30, South Fourth Street ;
Where oroer* io their*Btj« will be thankiully re
.' ceived and diligmtlv attfndij to.
nrv.mbfr is
For Sale, >\ \ *
TUB SHIPS, f
AERIAL','
""" ' and
Sjk PENNSYLVANIA, ■
>!** ; BURTHEN about three hund/e»l
tons each, built of the bed materials and »lil found
—may be Tent to sea at a small expenc* Tha'
charaflc. of thefc (hips are to well known, that »
particular defeription of them it deemed una*'
ceffary. For t.-rms ppply to
CURNEY SMITH.
Nov. 11 $
At Public Vendue,
™ E CiNOKSI BRIOANTIffE
I;S> St * MICHAEL,
ON Tuesday the 27th Jnft*
at 6 o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant** C"f
feeHmifc in Swcosd street. This hrigantine it is
believed- was builr. in New York on root of
which the pdrchafer willbe intittedtoan American
Register. She has iately received tbe necessary re
pairs, and be frnt to sea at a small expcsce.
The inventory to he seen at the (lore of the fuk«»
(eriberV.
FOOTMAN Co. Audkneers•
nov. 22
• t
THE
AMERICAN REPOSITORY.,
ANNUAL REGISTER,
For j 75)9.
j HE publication of this ufchd little work ha#
j X been retarded, this year, b.-yon its usual tiuitf
j by the late nv: v lit-tiort U wa*com,nit
-1 ted t'i th : pre!* earty enough but by the g-neral
; difperiioM of the per pie that took place the latter
end of August -n i beginning of September, it wa*
unavoidably interrupted A# as it faftf
• to return to tb« City and the Piiomr could get
■ hi* hands together, she work uas refqitted ; aid
it is with pl'.'dfure that Editor h is now to in
| form his f.-ient • and the public in general, that it
, will be complcated ana publifti.d the firl) we.k iu
December.
November 20 3awiw
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property iu the Cit or within Thirty
mites of it,
• A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, conta ning
ab.ut three hundred acres, the vfhole capable
of cultivation. At prefect theie is abodt 50acre«
cleared, 10 of is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing !lreai, that
has fall and water enough for all the purpose* of
a Country Mill. For furrier information apply at
I No. 68, Market street.
aovember 10 aawjw
~ WANTED,
AGood Plain Cook,
I 1
1*- A SMALL FAMILY.
Apply at No. 109, Spruce ftrtct, near Fifth street.
November 20 6t
Smith $c Rodman,
No. 49, South Front street,
Matte juji received per the William Penn, and
Ja\\e, from Lcn don, Dia Thoma*
from Liverpool, and lCingfton,
from Hull,
A LARGE. & GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
tfRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH A*E
Plain, twHl'd and flripcd Crapes
Coatings iPhin&ftriped Wildbatetf
Fine white and red Wclflj; Worsted, Yarn & Ci.tton
c ' Flannels Hole
\* Do. yellow and scarlet do. Boys Wo'ollctr
* 5 Superfine and low priceij ¥ u ens
l = 5-4, 6-4, 7-4, cloth? of 7'® bleaeh'd Ir.lh Dow
l' all colors I a s
Plains and Halfthicks 3- * '»& L.uen
Forest an<tHunt,rCloth«9 8 , wl i , ' eandbrow " Ir *
jo i r\ i iih Sheet mcs
Green and Red Drapery FUxe „ & r^w oula .
' J ' IIZC burgh in bales
no. 5-J.O-4, and 7 4, do D-pghrda (3 Intn Silrfia»
R, * green Bscking d 0.,,.8 , nd yir d „ide lrifh
Toilaoettsl Linen*
Role, Point a:id Duffili Piinted Csllicoes&Chin.
Biuskets l tzes
:c Superfine London Cafli Printed Linen and bor
meres of the newest and, de»\! Handkerchiefs w
most faih'onable, colors otton& l atticoe Cnecks
Xotar priced Yorkshire do. t Threao i. doings & Laces-
Plain and striped Cam , M n '* BtavcrGlov «
-y mancoes j Pins ia Ima ; i cases
r Joan Spinnings &Durants 1 a P Ci
j Rattinetts Sc Shalloons Jmckfeo -b4 Co,duroy»
» Norwich Camblets, footing and fancy Cord,
Velvets and VcKeiteens
t- p r\ a 131 i aiaclt anc ' ol ' vc Cottcm-
Eombazetts and Blark[ a(^t
VVi.h a variety of other Articles on hand, for"
sale ou the moil reasonable terms for caih
or tlie usual credit.
ln N° v 6 ' tu,th&fa,tf
Jr
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK WATCH MAKER,
Corner of Front a-id Market Arrets, Philadelphia,
- . HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch mak«r> and Silver Smiths Tools,
t0 files and materials, '
CONSUTINC O '
; ir ' Rowling Mills, large and fmaVl Bench and Hand
)n Vices, Turnbenches Plyers, iUidine Ton??. Br».
ces and Bitts, Grooving tooh, Sawc, ricratch bnsfc
1C e«, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw r la >- 1 r» e an d
ftnall Himmcrs, Cluck dial*, call uraf. R Is, f or .
ged w.flc and pinions. F.nery, Rotten yon-| P u .
mice lloae, Borax, Spcl-er Sarder, 8r..: i, St.-cl and
'• Iron wire, sheet Brass, main springs an ! gh let
gold, gilt, and ftcel chains, seals and keys, &e. i- c .
c3"Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
-.BOV. 21 eodtf
i-
is Philadelphia Price Current
It AND
n Market Day Advertiser,
TO Bt PUBLISHED JtVl*y W» 9Mt , DAV
FRIDAY MORNINO,
THE fubferibcr refpetttully iaforms the
P«dlic, that the above P r l cc Current for
_ which proposals were issued by him not i o ,■„ rcm
still Hands in need of feme further
to enable him to go on with it., He flatters h,m
lelf, however, from the incrtafe of his
lift within thfclt few days paii, th.c he will be cn
d abled to give it to the .public in .he C9urfc* o f a
>- fhert time. In the intcrini he earneftlr folVni
fubferiptions, whi h arc thankfully received at h>.
office, no. 59, south Third street, oppoSte ,h«
.. Bank ol the 0, iced States.
James Humphreys.
■v nov. IT ' '*slImported
hi the last, arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
A.T REASONABLE prices and on a liberal
CREDIT, BY
PH.ATT w kintzing.
N0.95, North Water street.
315 bales & boxes Ticklenburghs,
hempen linens and oznabrigs from 1/5 to
7j per <U
70 do. bleached and brown
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. do. for cotton do.
30 chcfts platillas 2 do. fealing>wax
do. dowla* 3 packages oii-cloth
30 do. crcas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail-twine
12 do eflopaill<*s I do. wafches
15 do. Bi lefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. \ atterbrcnes 92 cases claret
4s do
I ilo. Holland CVivafs claret
l do. .RuHia do. 1600 l>ufoels ftne lalt
3 do. Rutfia (hcetiugs 40 calktof roll brimstone
1 do. ravens duck 200 calks of naval ft ores.
2 do. Ruflia drillcns 50 logs pAiie mahogany
1 do. brown Holland 4 hhds. coffee mills
2 do. Silesia rcuans bandies German
x cU-.Wahrendrop lmcn 10 chests of slates and
I do. Caraudoles pencils
1 do. FJcraifh linens A package of skates
I do.' cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 chests oi Nurcnberg
1 do diaper ' r^ys
12 do. tiiipcs 40 k«.of yellow ochre
18 do. clucks 3 hiids. 61ue
2 <'.o- fiamois S barrel* * f Lentilles
1 do. Arabia Aripe 5 ciielts of prime re J
1 do. bu:-.ting for colors crust Holland cheefw
I packa Mcdrus hand- 30 kfgs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of papers
I do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
6 bales t mpty bags foal leather
1 chefl hair ribband boxes window glass
3 boxes tc pes, aflorted Soo Demijohns
2 d®. bobbin, aflorted so boxes glass tumblers
I box threads & tapes aliened
1 do. fine blue liftados 2 hhds. pt>mice stone
5 chefls menSflippers 1 b6x ot mill saws
3 r?o bed ticks I cask of cutlery
2 cafls briftles \ quantity of done jugs
6 chests writing «artr and pickling pots
4 do. quilis \ f(,w (kips anchors, &c.
n £p&f-tf
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
THE Cargo
Of the Jhip Lotiifa,
Opiain Champlin from St. Petersburg,
t CONSISTING or
HEMP and BAR IRON.
In the Jhip Dispatch,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing "Copper,
And the remainder of Jhip Rich
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
anii an elegant affortmerit of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordeccii Lewis.
Philad*-Irl>n. Nov. 7 d.^w
JAMES & RICH AllD 6MI i H,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. j4, South Fiont-ftreet,
wh<re they heve for fa!e, as usual, a largo and ge
neral afforcment of European and Eaft-Indi*
DRY GOODS,
nail of which have now arrived and are landing,
fro,r. the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their-Cutfomers by applying will find almost
every article genera'ly imported, and at as low
prices for cash or credit, as they can be had elfe
-where.
N. B A few Cufes of Kurenbergh TOYS, a
confignmciit, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
' LANDING,
From on board tire Brig Amiable
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape
Nichala Mole.
43 EsUs Socks and Flannel Drawers "j g 3
j;8 Do. Gaire • j 3' go
2 Do. Rug> 1 H
j Do. Havre Sacki j » „ ™
1 Do. Flannel Trowftrs - ' 3fT i?
a Do. I'ents, J s
Also just Imported,
In the Sh p'Chelipeake, Captajn W«bl», fr«m
l.iveiptfol,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Aflbrted particularly to suit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by I
Thomas £9* John Ketland.
November 7 f §
The Subscribers " j
HAVE JUST RICFIVfD AM INVOICE OF j
ChoiceChefhire &?Doable Gloucester '.
cheese. :
£Per the Chusapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various sizes, per ihe Jane, from London.
They have also Jor Sale,
zco Calks of Refined Salt-Petre, '
and'a quantity of
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. £s* Samuel IV. Ft/her. *
November 1 * dtf
Bond &c Brooks, 0
Cor nek of Market and Sixth tuiiTi,
>
by the late arrirals from London, Liver-
pcol and Hall, 0
A LAXCX AKD SE»I«H AISOIMINT Of "
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now openirg for sale, at the moll
reduced prices, for caih or the usual credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET, .
That'large and eommodiows HOUSE, no. 39,
fcuth Front street, direAly opposite the Pod-Office,
together with the ft ore and cellar, on the Wattr- .
street fide. Enquire at above.
Nov. 17 S
so Let, fl
THE house, No. 78, North Set
tend street, with or without a store and stable
The house is large and convcmient ; enquire of
John Litle, No. 40, North sixth street.
Oaobcr il. w&l* tf
i | Shoe Thready spun by the Poor. '
A QUANTITY OF EXCELLENT
SHOE THREAD,
For fnle, by
Nfullerry Smith, No/$6 North 2dJlreet,
and Ifu.c F. Hopper, Mo. 39 PineJlreet.
THE benevolent by purchasing
t of the abovn Thread will promote the endea
vors of a number of Pcrfons, who have colleiV
' ed a small fund which is appropriated to the
0 pnrpofe of finding employ for the Poor.
nth mo. 19th eod.^t
: S Mails Iff Georgia>
PA CKcTS are now provided for carrying the
Public maitsby water bstween Philadelphia
). and Cbarlefton. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The post will be continu
ed twice a week until an experiment u made in
regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any pfrfon chufes to have their
letters frnt by land only, they will pleafir to
write the word Lan.t upon the letters : other
=d wife they will b« sent by that conveyance which
will fjrft start after the letters are left in the
poft-uffice.
" "Joseph Haberjham,
ij Poft-Maflcr Gemirl.
Philadelphia, Augufl 13, 1798. }
j£l .
,d John Dobbin,
BOOT &f SHOEMAKER.
° ESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
r K the public in gmeral that he carries on his
bufintfs at No 99 Sou! b Sccond-Jlreet, nearly op
re posit» the Merchnnt» Cofiee houle whsre gen
tlemen maybe ftjpplied in the neatest and belt
, manner—he allures :hofe who may please to fa-
vor him with their commands that no attewion
„ or exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
iiim worthy of their encouragement.
1( j N. B. Orders received will be puni3ually at
tended to.
f s november 5 4
r# University of Pennsylvania,
Nov. 13, 1798.
The Medical Leisures, in the University,
will affually commence on Monday, the 26th
r3 of this month. Jt26
C 3" The OFFICE
of the Board of Commissioners, under
~ the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
See. with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street.
Nov. 12.
Horses to Winter.
HORSES taken in to Win er at Peel Hall
Farm, two nviles from ihe City on the
Wiflahickon road.Tne terms may be known at
Non, North Third-street.
nov 11 eodiot
The Custom House is re
movedfrom Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the usual place.
November 3 §
BALLAST.
AQIMNTITY, to bedifpored of, if applied for
immediately, on board the.Ship Louisa, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S S iip Yard,
november io. A ;
Notice.
SAMUEL RICMARDET, informs tKelgintle- 1
men Subscribers, that the EXCH AN G E ,
is opened for their reiep.ion; and the CITY ,
TAVERN, for Gentlemen and Travellers
Lad Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers jo the fide building, Hrhich makes it |
> perfectly convenient.
> november 6 taw j
Printing Work, '
Of Every Kind,
\ EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE, 1
At the Office of the Gazette of the
United States,
Oil, 13. dtf.
JAMAICA RUM, -
A Cargo now landing at South Jlreet <wharf, J
FOR. SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply a£ Stores on the v Whswf r r
WHO ALSO OFFXRS FOA SALE,
BRANDY, ift and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nov. I. ( dtf
JUST ARRIVED, S
From Bourdeaux, t]
And for Sale by the Subscriber, ].
60 Boxes Frefb Raifms n
128 dozen Ladies long Gloves fa
116 ditto ditto ftiort ditto a
ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
and Black Lace.
WILLIAM LYNCH.
No 8, Penn-flreet ) (t
novtmber io. diot ft
FOR SALE, al
AT THIS OFFICE,
! A FEW Copies of an intereftlng Work, in
1 -L\. French, entitled a History of
The Adminiflration of the French
* Finances, H
DURING THE TEAR 1796.
Alto, An Hiftoriial and Political View of the "
Adminiflration of ths French Republic, during jv
j >' ear '797> —of the which produc- fr
e d the C
Revolution of the 4th September—
And of the refulu of that Revolution. j t
FRICi 1 COLLAR EACH. ' hl
These two political are fr* n the pen fa
of the celebrated (i'lvernois,and contain athoii- -p
sand ii tercfting difclofurei of the folly, venality c
and prefligacy of the different Usurpers who t0
have reigned in France during the latter stages ae
of the hoiriblc Revolution mow pending in that t 0
miserable and depraved counVy. hi
Nov. 3. '
To be Lei, ,h
AND POSSESSION GIVEN fa
ON THE 14tH inu Nlxr, C ' l
THE CITY TAVERN, %
Norn in the pofliflion of Samuel Richardet.
Apply at this Office. iu
novamber 13 g so
REMOVAL. f"
THE SUBSCRIBERS haycremoved their Office
from the cotncr of Eleventh Street, to their former
Counties Houle, No. n, Penn Street. k<;
Millings Fraitc'ts.
November J §
t
. Goods for Biltiracre,
Will be received at the fores of, and sot warded
BY THE SUBSCRIBER/;
WHO, if they are delivered to tlieni proper
ly dir«<3ed and in ,ood order, will be ne
rountahle (with thi exception of accident) f*r
I, their fafe C-1' Due attention will be paid to
dispatch.
a. Levi llollhigsivorth £3* Son.
° nor. 16 <*' ot
Lo Let,
c A FRONT FARLOVR 55* CHAMBER,
GIENTIELLY FURNISHED, i
_ With or without,Boarding.—Enquire at
No. 38, Arch street.
e tioveraber 17 d'f
/\ H. PERSONS having any legal ulemandi a
■ fx. gain If rjie estate of IVUlinrr. Perliii, dece fid,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
"* requeHed to furniih their accounts properly au
'n thcnticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
. are r.-q jelled to make payment to the lubfcnbtr in
lr Phllaatlphia.
to LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
r - Oilobcr 31H, 1798.
- 1 ' DkifßlcrOF PENNSYLVAMIrt. iU wlf;
ke BE IT RR-MEMBERZD,
THAT on the twelfth day
® j of August, in the twenty third year of
'A th e Indepeadeuce ol the Uniced fctne< ot
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif
tridl, hath depwlited in thi* otfice the title ot a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words-followijig to wit :
4< New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
,j 8 " ton, M. D.CorrefponJent Member o( fheSocie- i
p. " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, wiem'aer of j
n _ " the American Philosophical Society, Feliow of ;
u the American Academy of Arts and Sciences oi
44 Boflon, Correfpoiid'dg Member of the Maffa
-44 chufetts H ; societ), and Profc(T.>r of
3 44 Materia Mtfdica, Natura) Hiftorv and Botany
er il 111 the UniverAty of Pennsylvania."
In conformity to the ail of the Ccngr&fs of the
United Sutcs, intitled 44 An aA, for the encourage
ment of learning by ftcuring the copies of maps,
charts,and Looks, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the times therein mentioned.**
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dill, of Pemi'
November 2, 1798.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
' 1 "pvESERTED last night, a second tiitie, frora
jLJ th« Marine Camp, DaviJ Lupcr, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain 1 luc jacku and
veil,light blue overalls, a round hat, which httdhcen
- r bound with yellow, and which he had ripped oif
y in hi* fit ft deftrtion, and a pair of new flioes. he is
' a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, fan4y hair,
0 fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
His back is ftlii fore from a flogging he got a few
days ago He may ba discovered by his fifeittg,
as he plays extremely well.
» W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
II O&obcr 17. Marine Corps.
>e ALL PERSONS,
lt TTAVlNG,demands agairilt the Ellate of
in Henry Schaffer, deceased, lateoftlie
_ City of Philadelphia, Malfler and Shopkeeper
_ are requcfted to jurnilh their accounts properly
, authenticated and all persons indebted'to said
*' Ellate are desired to make speedy payment to
C ASP AH IV. HA INKS, ) , .
FREDERICK GAUL, j admimftrators.
nth nro. 13 fljaw;jvr
, r NOTICE
6 To Owners of Carriages, and
Rbtaixers of Wine & Sfirits.
■ TN conloquence of the late Epidemic in this
X Cityj djirnbrrs have neglected to enter their
" Carriages, also the retailers of Wine aii "5pP
rits to cill and take ou* their Licences. The
j returning health of the City, the Office is re
' moved from Germantown to its former place,
No. 49 North Third-street, 'vhere thofc who
have neg!ecied mull call and pay t!,e duty 011
their Carriages, &nd those retailers take out theii
- Licences—Their ready compliance Will prevent (
incurring the penalty of (he Law. '
JAMES ASH, Collector
of the \JI Survey of the \fl '
Divifton of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Office of Infpeclion )
No. 49, North Third-llrcet. iS '
w gT The STAMP-PRESS is kept at this 1
Office. r <■
nov 9 inw&fjw
Bank of the United States
November 19, 1778.
NOTICE,
THE STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the
United States are informed, that according to
the Statute of Incorporation, a GtneralEle,3ion for
twenty-five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank of f
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, 011 ,
Monday, the ;th of January next, at to o'clock in s
the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh feaion of the bye f
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are also t
notified to afTemble in general meeting, at the
fame place, on Tuesday, the.Bth of January next, ~
at 6 o'clock in ihe evening. ' ■
G. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article. i
Not more than three fourths ef the eflors in
office, exclusive of the President, (hall be eligible
tor the next enfuiug year, but the Diredor who
(hall be President at the time of an election, may
always be rc-eleited.
November 16 mtE "1
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Juni 11 I7og. P
VfOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir- c
tu« of an ail, paffedduring the profent fef- l '
fion ef Congress, so much of the ad entituled Cl
" An Aft making further provision for the sup
" port ol public credit, and for ths redemption
" of the public debt"—pafled the third day of b '
March, one thouland seven hundred and ninety- if
five, as bars from fettleinent or allowance ti
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and'
final fetrlemeut Certificates, and Indents of In
ferells, is suspended until the twelfth day o 3 ,
fune, which will be in the year one thousand fcvcu
hundred and ninety nin_».
That on the liquidation and fcttlemcntof the ~
said Certificates, and Indents of Intcrell, nt the
Treasury, the Creditors wilt be entitled to receive Ir
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent.Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indent?, and the arrear
ages of interea due un their said Certificate, prior C
to the firft day of January one thousand feveu
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof >he said Loan Office R
and final settlement Certificates, with tho interest p
thsrton, since the firft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, willbedif
charged after liquidation at the Tr&ifiiry, by the
payment of interest and of princi- c
pal, equal to the sums which would have been B
payable thereon, if the said Certlfi«at«s had been C
fubfcubcd, pursuant to the A 35 making provision G
for the debts sf the United States, contracted dur- T
.ng the late war, and by the payment of other \>
rums, equal to,the market of the remaining l'
Stock, whuh would havs been created by such
subscriptions asaforcfaid, which market Value will F
be determined by the Comptroller of thcTreafurv
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
ianexg Seerttarj ,f Treasury
J" 1 * 2 ' / lawtf
1
Jffadras and Ventapautem
(d handkerchiefs,
Searfcuikers and Carradarries,
r " of the lit weft and most approved patterns,entitled
ie- ' to the drawback, jul? received,
:, r Alll ton SALE BY
to Alex. J. Miller Co.
No/64, South Front street.
may 18.
_ -FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
» Benjamin Moutdth Matter, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
at 945 Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
aio Bales of Cotton
V By JVillings & Francis*
No. Eleventh llreet.
ire U r
u - _j"'r 2: < dLf —_
Forty Dollars Reward.
,n DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz.
7* prober 29.
GEORGE KELLER. 40 year? of age, $
feet 6 inches in hr-iit, dark hair and
K complexion, bom in Holland, no frade, f;i.*ak»
° f broken Ecglifll and very talkative, has a dimple
if in his chin.
~ November 6. John Murphy, years of
he age, 5 feet 7 \ inches ill height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
r.d Dofi'in, by trade a Hozier.
ir- I Jacob iilei., 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 incbes
ie- | high, grey eyes, Tandy hair, frefo complexion,
of : b/ni ill Ne A - -iii>gland, state of Connecticut, a
of 1 repeated deierter, bv trade a Blacksmith.
of November 7. William Collins, joyeaia of
!•'- a"e, J feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
of flexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
n y Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to near himfelf Sing.
;e * All the above deserters arc very much addi.fl
-5S ' ed to liquor, and will take other people'# pro
perty if 111 their power, are artificially marked
"! on their backs, had on, when they went away,
their regimental clothing. Wh'ifocver appre
— hends fakl lhall receixe forty dollars
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all reafon
rnj able expences, by applying to 1 me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
nd id regiment of Infantry commanding.
En nov 10
t A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.,
iir,
p TOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has
w J for a few years past been in the fouihern States,
g, has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timtfthy Pickering, Ef<j. Secretary of
tie State, and myielf,an'd by thauneans has defrauded ]
a number of persons of their money, deceiving ,
___ them by an exhibitiorrof letters and papers with the j
names affixed of divers public charactei s and repu- t
of table merchants highly recommendatory' of laid j
ic Skaeffer ;to one of these papers I find nVy'r.ame
?r fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; thtfe are
Iy villainous tcrrgtries! To present further imposition,
I have to request the printers of Ncwfpapers in the
United States topublifh this for the benefit of their "
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
f • 'Treasurer ef ibs United States %
Trenton, New 1
__ Otlobcr 24, 1798. ) ]
This Day Publijhed, <
Ai>d for faleat the OfSce of the Editor, No. J
119 Ch<WYuit-fireet, 1
f Price 1 -Zth of a Dollar,) r
AN ORATION, 1
I
c At therequelt of the Inhabitants of tlis Town of
BOSTON, in con>mem«ratioiT of the anni
' verlary of American independeuce.
By Josijh punier.
i " The inroads upon our public liberty, call J
t for reparation—The wrongs we havefultained,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and thu
Juilice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, C
anil Firmness But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of e Devil in tie garden of Eden,
and to disunite *nd enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from that period to the
present."
Observations on the Bostoi Port-Bill, Ijfc.p. 78
by the late J. putney, jun.
augult J1 „
This Day is^Publifhed,
AND FOR, 4ALEBY J. F F.N NO, ! iQjCHESNUT-S >RE t T f
: AN ADDRESS s
> Tot he People of Maryland, L
[ ON the'origin, progrtfs and prclcnt state ps b
French aggrelhon, with a sketch of the infamous' F
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
' States, and Tome reflections 011 the late proceeding
in Congress; written the la!l of April in the pr?-
: sent r«r, by a Member of the Honfe of Keprefen
' utiv «" S june 11
JOHN SHIELDS, *
BROKER,
Embraces this opportunity to present bis thanks
to his fellozu-citizens for their p a Ji favors ' *
and acquaints them that he is returnedfrom "
t/ Ut » t0 bu f or wr refdence, the ~
tloije Ao. tj Chefnut between Front
and Second-street, M
'\Tn r HERE he holds himfelf ijeitiv to execute (
J'/r' c "mmandt in evtry branch of his
profeffion, trufling that from a residence in this
0 years he has it in his power to render
,u rvice ', aD "" ri,, « thcm that hi'
comnmlion (hall be as low as any in J own.
Lotta, Lasds, Houses, Vessels, Certificates
O. every description and ii : ll» of
bought and fold, thedocketls carefully exam! T
med nr,d clear titles made upon the Ihortefl no-
e , '»)' th f public's •hamble fervint, Fc
r. , . ? cbn Shields.
C? Good negotiable Notes discounted
.it a lokv premium.
November 7 r
' jawtf
Just Imported, H
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof t
pcu Q^r" r " rn '' S£S Coul P lcte 3i 4, 6 and <;'
Carronadcs, Woolwieh proof, with carriages Sec Kl
complete—!,, ,g HHt4 a4p „ uilc|ers K ,IXC - th
Caunon powder in kegs of 1 qlbs. each N.
Round, douhle-htaded, and c.miitUr (hot '
niea.hing copper, bright. afTortcd 18 10
»z, i|, 16 and 28 or per f;uari foot, iheet's a A 'O'
Copper nails, bolts and spites "
Boaniing Pikes, A
Common cutlalTo
Gunners stores of *ll kindi * ~
Tin-pl ite« No I—l-3 cro f ß 1 xe%
Patent ihot in calks of JC wt. each T
L ondon, porter and brown ft.™,* ef , do 2. t
Earthen war« in crates, afTsrted an
For Sale,by wi
SIMON WAI'KER, %
OaoJjjr Pine near jth ftr*et. ' ,
ep.tf. 1
, For Sale,
Br T.HS SUBSCRIBERS,
500,000 weight of Java Coffee
ld Of THE FIRST etTAtITY, '
LANDING from on board the lhip ClecD.it ,
C ptam Wills, Irom Bjtivia. *
Vvillings Sff Francis,
november 16 **' Ptna
~ foruuT 1 ~—
V / 'he Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, N O . i, to 7
On moderate terns for Calh or a short credit
«.a 0 J ames L y !e >
nov J OUtbSe ™ th Jir«t, near Cbefnut.
Notice ~
T H f 4T -in be inadeit the Trea
thc T-i
jriT f d c t^ndin? o ,n the "Me Of Robl'r't
merchants of England trading to the Ea/.Jn
dies, which were loft from on board the
d !°w-Pack et , capt Kidd, from FauJtht, N*£
„ Dolls. Cts.
I e No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
'79.3> one.certificate for 1717.
)f No 10,478, Ueg. office 17th Dec.
. 1793. one certificate for
,f Ellijlon John Perot °
nov r-? '
eodow
N O T FCK;
• AH' T l,erfon ' dj ' m 5 upon the Estate
, / a r me | Thw, '"rn, Stonecutter, deceaf
,f ed, are defircd to prcient them for payment— f
and these indebted to pay their refoett ve bal
£ lances to *
r B.njamin W. Morris, admlnijlrator
J - "° V 14 _ 3»w w
to berenTEDT—
I (.<ndimmediate pojfejjion given,)
j A LARGE three ftc.-y BHILK HOUSE
', situate in Walnut-ftreer— The rooms are"
■- cemmodious, airy and private—from whichjnd
s lu, r cer ' t ?' P. ofitioh ' ir is "'ought to be an tJiri
brp situation f#r a Public Office. For terms en
quire: of amy. IV. morris.
mo, A commodfous Ware iiouie, in Tav
or s Alley. 1 "
. ■ otat jmwiw.
LDUCAIION.
.8 Samuel Moon, jun'rs School
'' AV CHURCH ALLEY,
;"r T S °Pf! a ß ai "> f ? r Girl, i„ R„di ß .
. 1 Wr'tmg. Arithmetic, Grammar, Geo.raphy,,
1 including the Element' of Geometry, a ,,d The use
I ® f th L l ; GIol)e». From the great encouragement he
e has hitherto rrteived, he rcfpec'Llully folic* a con--
• tinuance of the-favours of his Friends and the
1 public.
• GO* An Evening School,
, For B 0 7 S—Kept at the fame place.
j; " m " 6fl ' >3 iJ.w ,
Whereas the certificate of two
' shares of the Bank of the in the
name o; Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No 3182, rfTued in lieu of 11593, 1x594, were
forwarded from London by the Hritifli packot
Coiintefs, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the fai>l certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, Jmd all perlbns concerned ire defircd t»
- 4MHWA& 1 '*«»'
f CLE MS NT BIDDLE.
Fhlla. Q£t. \ 7jS. eo6w t
FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half 'fiercer.
: ,
i CafoJnU and Georgia Indigo,
i A HI) A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skinj.
apply to
N. y J. Frazier,
No. 95, So. Front Street
november J3 3UW3W
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to thc Treafw--
ry cf thc United States, for the renewal of the
following Certificates «,f Si* Per Cent Funded
Stock, (landing in the name of ,J<i„ Carttndl, of
Lenduti, the i*id Certificates having fe<n loft on
board the t'wallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
' Falmouth to New-York.
Aiu. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 JM.I
2964 I do. 5000 > ,
10,577 1 do- 3000 J 1
Wilkngs & Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. eobvr
Notice is hereby given,
THAT appiitation ujillbe made to the treafurv
of the United f tares lor the renewal of tne follow-,
• i«g certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, ftatxl
iw thc name of Jane Gabrielle Rigaud, of
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack
tt, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yaik.
Beth.
No. 319/. Reg. office 19thMay '95, icert. for iooo
| 13,181. do. 14th do. do. .1 do. for 3500
Willing: $ Francii.
OCiobcr 14. " cod6w.
T r. r
MUSIC PROFESSOR, .
MO. 96, SOrtH SIXTH.iT«£! T,
Respectfully informs the Public thst
he continues to tcuch Ladies the Pinti«
Forte as usual.
Nov. C. tuthsa
Bank of fl)s United States.
November 14,
■ HOT ICS. IS HEREBY OIFSN,
THAT application will be made at the I ita
fury t<f the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No- 15, 548, for 18,782 dollars, 33 cents,
Kegilier's Office, January Bth, 1 798, ifTufd it
the names of IViUiam IVUlink'Jan Wiltink,
Nicholas isf Jacob Van Staf>h*rji 53 1 Hubbard,
I ruflets for lundry ni( ney-lenders iu Anifter-,
dam; which wasforwarded the nth of Janua-i
r y, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Ohbes, esq.
and loft by the capture of the ship Columbus,
captain Skinner, from New-York forAmfterdaiu,
G. Simffon, cnjh'r.
nov 14 ia\y6w
Horses to Winter,
T ..ORSES will be taken in to winter at P* a-
XJL spict Hill, at the iz Mil« Stone, on thi
Bristol
ami timothy haj', well littered and cleaned, audi
will also have a large field to exercise thetr.iclvea
in when thc weather is good. —Esquire of Mr.
rfih'tam L\U t mexchanr, Watct ilfCvt, or on ths
- frtrtiifys.
Nov. 7 , y[d