#a?etto of tI)C Untteis States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1725.J
For NEW-YORK,
s At h, c
Captain Cootis..
FR.IIOHT will be taken on very lew terms, if j
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN. £
march 17. 5 1
For NEW-YORK, I
The fine new, faft failing ?loop
, CONCORD, J
.jjfer Stephen Cahoone, mtjltr ; a
jS-VOtSB— , WILL take freight on very (j
moderate terms; for which, or passage (having f
elegant accommodations) apply to the matter on
board, at Clifford's wharf. y
■ march li.
For Sale,
NOW lying at Ruffel's Wars *
Burthep 77 tons——three years old, Vuilt of the bctt
raateriaU and is well found—would answer well
for a foaftcr, as foe has excellent accommodation!.
For terms apply to '
Gurney & Smith.
march r$ S ,
• For Boston,
a—* The Ship
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majltr. <
To fail in a few days.
Any freight that may offer,
wiU be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
Of passage, apply to the Captain, or to
Jftae fftrvey, jnn.
5, South Water-Oraet.
march It. § ,w
FOR SALE,
TUB BRI®
Wed Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
•edar, is coppered, fteathed and bolted, } ysa*s
•Id, fails remarkably well, carries IJ « 1600 bar
>elt—caw lyi»g at Somth-ftraet -wharf, ready to
bad PETER BLIGHT.
■atth 6. {lw
For Hamburgh,
TH| I It I P
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dbhabt, Mqfier,
great part of her cargo en
gaged.—.For freight apply to
JeJfe es* Robert Wain.
Pebanary «6 $
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
hate roit lAII,
j| hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine is pipea aadhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipe*
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighthi «f eheftt
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Gingharaa, and MuAinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and trate*
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expedted round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fitie Liverpool 3alt ,
Coals
Spanish Brown
Venetian Red I
Purple Brown i pxmTS
Patent White <
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Shesthing paper
Seaming Twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
BrigAMAio*.
firm of PhHip Nicklia k. Co.
Is now otiaaced to
NICKLIN y GRirriTH.
January 1. co<^
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE
1 Will carry about ttoo barrels, and
is ready te take in a cargo. For terms
-apply ta _ . _
Praters & Co.
No. IJI, South Second-street.
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lifcon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
The Commiflioncrs
FOR carryin?into sffeAth - TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,and
navigation, bctwe.n His Catholic Majelly and the
Coitrd Stares of Am.rica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned —That in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fullainedby the citilrns of the United States, in
confequencc of th<-tr reffelt ,nd Cargoes having
been takecby the Snhjeds of His CatholicMajef
ty during the late war between Spain «nd Franc,',
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of tea and one o'clock, daily) all
eosnnlainrs and applieatioas.mthorired by the said
Article dur/ng aicmtiN mouths, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as come before them, on
«ath or affirmation, touching the com; laints in
flueftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they oiall thtuk proper to reaujre or admit.
J)y fjrder of tblCtmmiJ) Uu>xrt,
PETtR LOHRA, Sttrttarj.
Off", A"«- 109. M./Urry
- IFefc 1(5 , 9g _ tlm
• • TAy7 Priitm in tht ffttrtl Stein vto fmilifi
V tL uhtrtifemud ij* Spring, tr, reefed !■>
~-fmhlfl 1 ~ " P ' L '
By John Fenno, N o> 119 Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 21, 1798.
To be Sold at Auction,
On Thursday, 22d March, at 7 o'clock in 1
the Evening, at the Merchant's Coffee-
House Second street. 2
A BRIcK HOUSE, together with the Lot
thereto belonging, m the ritjr of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The honfc has three rooms
below, and three chamber* in the upper story.
The kiuhen adjo r.ing is a frame buildißg. The
Lot has a front of 71 feet on Ptarl-ftreet, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
length of the Lot it abovt 150 feet—The hemfe
command* a very pleasant profpefl of the river,
and the B<to- ph of Briftsl, on the Pennsylvania
Ihore. Immediate pnfleflion may be had. For
further pirticulars, inquire of Mr. John Sims,
next door below the City Tavern in Philadel
phia, or the lubfcriber in Bu. lin;ton.
Conditions will be made known at time offale.
THOMSON NEAAI.
Burlington, March 17. dts
Virginia Lands.
On Tuesday the 20th inft. will be fold for
Cafli, by Public AuAion, at the Mer
chants Coffee-Honfe, at 7 •'clock i» ,
the evening,
THli following bodies »f Land in the State
of Virginia, viz.
13,600 Acres lituate on toe waters of Big
Steer Creek
-16,99? Aeres on the waters of the Little Ken
harva and the weft fork of the Monongahela
-50,450 Acres »n the #ater» of Burhannon river.
Particular descriptions of the Lands, and an
examination of the title* may be had by apply
ing t»
Footman & C». Au&ioneers.
March 11. dtiom
Will be fold on Wednesday the
of March, at J o'clock in the evening, at I
the Merchants' Coffee House, for ealh,
AGREEABLY to the last will aid tellament of
William Heyihasu, daceifed, and paflicflioa
given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
flreet, between Third and Faurthftreets, eonfifting
•t the House No. lOJ, with the Lot on which it
Hands, ■ Stable aid other improvements. The
house is »o feet front and contains ten good apart
ments. Tht lot is of th< fame breadth as the house,
and *O9 feet deep, with a well of water, and a
very capacious walled cistern, both with pumpi in
compleat repair. The • able {lands on the re r. of
the lot, and will accommodate foir horses and a
carriage. This property anjoys a perpetual privi
lege of a *6 feet conrt and an alley 8 fact wide, ei
tending to Cherry street. Its central pofuion, and
the advantages it poffefes with refpeA to free ven
tilation, renders it well worthy the attention of
any p«rfo> wifljing to possess an eligible property
is Philadelphia.
Rohert Heyfham, or 1 A (Sing
Francis Bo wet Sayre, J Executor!.
CONNELLY fcf Co. AuS'rs.
n. B. The ho»fc will be open t*-o days previ
ous to the fale.for the iafpe&ion orthoie who wilh
to purehafe. march 7 —sta Jft
On Tuelday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be exposed |p public We, fevenreaa
traAs or parcel* of hnd fituMed in Point
township in the county as Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thousand seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acres «nd three quarters,
with the afual allowance for reads.
Terms offale, i-j of the purehafe money on
the execution of the deed, l | in three months,
; and I-j infix months, in good note's or other
1 at>preT»d«ecarity.
CONNELLY W C<». Am*.
March 9. tasln dtica
I'Hfi term of Co-partnerihip between the fuh- |
fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed - The debts and con
eerns of the fame will be fettled by John MiHer,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnership,
are earnestly requested t» mike payment ta, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 . S"
LANDING,
From oa board the Ship S all r, from
Calcutta,
AMI -TOt SAL f IV tHI Sflietlllt,
1600 bagi prime Sugar,
800 do Ginger
jo bales low priced pnee Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march $ , i
TOR SALE, BT
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chcfimt street,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
4HONSIT WHien A«S—
Garrahs Mameedies
, Baltas Sannas
Guzzenas I anda Cofiaas
Guzaies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicees
Palam: oors Romall Handkerchiefs
r Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma-
I- aafaAures of I'ataa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
frhmtry 19 $
I Alex. J. Miller £s* James Davis,
n Having entered into pArtuerlhip under the firm o*
r Alexander J. Millar Co.
INFORM tkeir friends iu town and country, that
th y have opened a Wholcfale Dry Good Store,
Pat No 64, South Front Philadelphia ; wber*
they now havt% and intend ke«eping a general af
>' fojtment of India, German, Irtjk, French and Bri
jT tijb Mannfa&uresfnr sale, on advantageous term r
. ior calh or a (hort credit.
y Febrmary if §tf
St. Croix Sugars.
n a& hogßieads bell ST. 1 i< ■ <IX SUGAR,
t- FOR SALI BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 tii. wr(
FOR SALE,
400 barrels BEEF.
Enquire «f
George Pcnnotle, or
„ Gut. Hill WeU>.
mirth 4. est/
LANDING
From on board the "Sehooner Ravsim, from
JjCZpiH'l, 1
230 Bags, containing 30,000 ivt. Coffee, c
For Sals bt n
SAMUEL HAYS, t
No. 117 Cllefnut street- r
Who has remaining on hand 6, 00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, ofafupertor Quality. t
March r? d<t
JUST RECEIVED,
va o m ro r T-A »-r aIN e», ,
And FOR SALE, tj tli SUBSCRICBRS, '
Xio hhds. Coffee i
46 tierces do. a
100 barrels Ao. i
ICO bags do
Ijo hogfheadsof Mnfcoved© Sugar 4
barrels of do.
40 hogftead® of MolafTes
4 bale* of Cotton
% hoglheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS (J FRANCIS.
Fenn-ftreet. 1
ma' eh r*. 1
Han J ing from on board the (hip '
Tennessee, eapt. Smith,/from Hamburg, I
And FOR SALE by the Sjascaiaias,
325 pieces Quadruples SileGas
400 do. Platillas '
joe do Creas '
51 d®. do. Ala Morlait
100 do. Dowlas
va do. red flriped
to <O. blue Guineas
100 dosen bordered Handkerchiefs
Erie & Lev/is Bellmana,
i»3, Sauth Third street.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A ease of printed Muslins and Calicoes
march 11. }Bt
Frelli l eas.
Jtt/i Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At His Compting House, No. 54, C'hofnut-ftreet,
ano iv
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At kis Comptinp House, Crooked billet whsrf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ai.se,
China Ware, 1 flirted; Alack and coloured Lnte
ftrings and Sattius, Naakeens, Cassia, large garden
and enmmon Fans, fattin and luteftnng Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbty Ijpm mlfo Fir Sale,
Ell wide Pcrfians, Bandanaa Handkerchi»f«,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
inarch S. §
Tt-morroiu wilt be Landed,
From »n board the brig Benjwnin Franklin, eapt.
Jeurs, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, yix.
MEDOC ■) Of the vin»«2esot lyjl,
LATOUR y in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
roa sale av
PHILIPS. CRAMOND Ut Co.
march J. 5_
" so rsale; .
BY mi subscribers. No. at, Penn-ftreet,
Tht C<?rgo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftfling ef
Baftas, of varioas qualities and prices,
- CofTaes Pwnjuni Cloths
I Sanahs Guzieydo.
j Humhums Charconna Dorra
| Blue Clvth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmnle
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonge* Patna HWfe.
Oingbams Malmu de.
Guzzenas Bandanijoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoe* Choppa Romale
. Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Roraals Perfiant of various eol.
Mack Pulicats
1 too tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing* & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Gange< are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft comer of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs likfs. ef ele
gant patterns and best colours
February S. dtf
ROSS W SIMSON,
HAVB FOB SALI,
' A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR., in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Br*ga! j
300 calks RICR, md
A parcel of (hip bailding RED CEDAA.
oa
Landing
From oh board the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
,-0 pieces Ravens Duck
' O pieces Rulfia Sheeting
soo holts Ruflia Duck, and
t A qumtity of Swedes Iron .
Far S*U tj
JOSEPH ANTHONY (J C*.
PFbobavtin Hand,
iftand id proof Botirdeaa* Brandy
4th proof Spunifh ditto
New-Ei.gland Rum
- L o ** o ' P j rtic » Ur > Madeira Win. in Pipe.
Old Claret in Cases
*4 hlids. Coffee just arrived
B»ft Boston Beef in barrels
Mackrell in <lo.
~ Halifax Salmon in do.
A fmjli tnvoice of Rhode-lfland Cheese
S eimaciti Oil
Tanacrs ditto
No. i« t, 3, Boston Sail Duclc
Hufiia Corrfag*, and
An Invoice of I)i|tek Hollow Glass Wire.
Mirch 1. tfiw
eotf
A Great Bargain.
WILL BE SOLD, if applied for immediate
ly, Twesity Thousand Dollars is Bills cf ci
Credit, upon interest at five percent, per aunum
now lodged in the Treasury, end en Jorfed by the _
United States, with a promise to •' pay the inte- f
r.ft annually."
Enquire at the Office of I'HOMAS McEWEN
" eiarch 11 —tt
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five miles from this city, a fobcr It a
day Maa who underftanda gardening anO'the I
managemeut of a few acres of land, and wpuld
not objedl to attend a couple of horses. Such
a one nsay meet with liberal wages by applying
at the office of this Gaaette.
N. B- New need apply hut those of unex- I
ceptionable chara<9.er». 1
March Ij. , ' , dta _
7 o bt Sold,
An elegant Country Seat, :
Containing 6 acres and 4"» perches, with a neat
tWo story brick House and kitchen thereor, an ap- {
pie Orchard, Sec innate on the Irifk tradl in
the town (hip. of Moyamenfisg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will j
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gasette. v (
The improvements upon this place, fsr tafts and
elegance ft and unrivalled. #
N. B. It tbe above place i» not fold before the
aoth inft. it will th«n be rented, for the Summer
season only. § march 5.
Wanted,
An aAire, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the bufinef* <-f the kitchen. iJuch a one
will he allowed good wajre?, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Primer*
February 7
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank cf the
l>nited State's, (landing in the name of the Subfcri
her, No. 5*04, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 s6w
To LET, ' ***
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in as excellent {land for
bafiasfi. Apply to
v jThomas (S> JoJlua Fiber,
march X. § No. 5, Dock-tlreet.
FOR SALE,
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
NEXT door but one to the corner of Fifth-ftreet,
occupied by the fubferibsr. Its eligible fitvation (
is well known—The rooma are fpaxious and con
venient, aad finifhed in ahandfome (lik—lt has
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
lee House and rain water Liftern, and there is a
Pump of good water near the kitcheudoor.
For terms apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
march t. §'w
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA IVIA£,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pfpes, half
pipea and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glaf—all of which will be fold
en very reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. ia, Dock Street,
march 1 w&stf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muflina, being the re
mains of the ship India'i lad cargo fnom
Calcutta, and will be fold lovr,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
15 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
®f the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 10 . daw
Valuable Property for bale.
FOX-S-4IE,
THAT well knuwn Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Gadwalader, firuate on Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containir.g a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of joo
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and eonfiftof ahandfome Dwelling House,
P two large Barns with Cow hou'es, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpaciou* treading floor under cover, a |
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran- '
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of j
them new and of Krick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , Ac. &c.—Tht whole Efiate being nearly
surrounded by water, k requires t»uf 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhi iy. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable rivtr hut a fbort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the pt emifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
fn-aOer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchafcr. The
Stock on said Farm, eonfifting or Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, Bcc. will also be disposed of.—For further
particulars to George Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiher, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, j» N .
Februarv 14 taw6w
Bafkenridge—tor sale
IT ronlifts ol 92c acres, jltnoM: all ol which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the lath
Etrl of St rNng). It may be conveniently dixided
into five tarn's, four of which are bounded on the
Eik by the river Pafiick
Thcr* are on it a number nf buildings, formin*
afqiare ol nearly three'aeres—>l he dwelling house
is a very convenient ore and a fmallcxpence would
put it in complete repair.
rl»e orchard coniilisof i tOi fin.bearing; engTaf
' ed *pple Trees—and there is on other psrtso/faid
near joo other Apple frees—a« also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries ot tik
bed and most delicious kind,.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Korea Treo*, that add to th? beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is »b»*t - 8 miles
from the towns of Newark andiE'-.rabcth : 10 d*).
frem Morris-Town, and 11 Jroitl Springfield—lt
is woodrd and watered.
To favc tronble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cslh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN 3c Co.
„ £>'•. 78, Cbefaat trait.
Febrnary S. eodif
,[VciUM£ XIII.
wanted,
A Gardener —a Single Man.
None n*td apply, unless be can bring good f«»
commendations.
Fnquire at No. 3* »VTarket-ftreet.
man ' If. * ;vv ,
JuJl reidved, and fur Salt at ite fioeifttrt of
WILLIAM YOUNGj
No. f a South Secind fireet.
A CCMFLKTE IIISTOKY or
CONNECTICUT,
CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
From the emigration t>( it* firll pUntot frcmEa
gt»'d in to 1713.
By BENJAMIN TkUMBUL L, o ».
TO! CMS 1.
Bmfcellifce! withacorreA Map of the Stste, and
Portraits of fame of the firll fettlvrs, from origi*
nal paint.Dgs.
match I*/ o,w j
Ran away, from the lubfcnber,
011 the 14th iw. two indented lri(h Servant Men i
Thomas Vl'Guire, about is c f *g c and 5
feet 8 inches high,-rob* fl, ftowt, and well made,
ftort black hair, remarkaMe for a fear on otic of
hi* temples ; he 13 a forward, deceitful, vicious,
aniunprincipled fellow, and decoyed fr< m my
service Jeffry CorKt! about the fame ajre ?.nd
height, but of a milder oifnofition. and more flen*
der make, Ihort brown hjir ; th*ir working appa
rehv«s blue cloth c ver jickett, lined with coaffs
brown linen, duck una brwwn linen fhirrv, gr y
yam dockings, mixe.i tallied grey cloth trowfers,
and rufiett leather Pnofs ; they h«;v» o r h .r clou Hfhff
which a.together them the appearance of fei
faring men, V uth*ve been brou ht up to rht arm
ing buiin; fe ; uo doubt * ill have forced pafle and
change che;r nanus and apparrS as. convenient, and
hive taken the post road to Ph.!ap< lphia, 1 ur
chaf. d rhem the !a!l fall of ca£t R«lw»j in lialti*
more. I will give Fifty Doll ars lor th«m
so that 1 get them, and will pay all reasonable
charges if brought home, or if fcpara <-d,. Thirty
Dallar* for Thomas, an* 4 Pwenty f< r ffrv.
ARTHUR BRYAN,
Head of Wye, 1 albot County —M. rch 7.
march 14 ,law,:w
Custom Housk,
Viflr'lß of Pennsylvania, March 6/£, 1797,
MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
X who may have any account or koowle 'ge o?
the capture or detention of any fhiporviHel, §ar
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United State*. residing within this diftri&, by or
under the authority of foreign nation?, iinee the
firft day of O&ober, 1791, are particularly reques
ted to stive in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, aafoon as may
be convenient ; fpecifying the name of the veiTel*
the captain's name, the number o tons, the esti
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the efli
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, wjth such observations t*a
may be thought nectffary upon the ciroi#fiances
i j of each cafe, in order that itarement*' t reof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secr*taiy of ihc J reafury,
who is required to lay 'he fame before th #
and House ol Reprefentativesol the United States,
march 7. _ ot
Tending,
IXI FOR lAlt,
The Cargo of the ihip Fair American,
f Sattici Butke, mailer, from Am-C aye*, niw ly
ing at Belt's wharf,
CON SIS I IKS r
1 MolafTes, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Wood,
Apply »o
ISAAC HARVEY, jun.
3 mo. 6. §i» '• attr-nrett.
FOR' SALE,
. By WHARTON csf LEWIS,
i No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of \ aim r's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, 7 entitled to
ift and ad proof Brandy, j drawback.
* Madeira Wine,
juniper B-srriec, See. ike.
Feb. 9. eodtf
THE Subscriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a pctfon will
attend every day, Sundays xcepted, until the ift
of April nr xt, from the houm of 10 o'clock inthe
morning till i o'clock in th« afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied loy him idi' Chefnnt-ftreer, for
the putpa'e ef ftiewing all books, papers and let.
■ ters rrjiirdiug his pat! coniimrcial tranfafliotis to
(uth of his creditor* as may think proper to attend
> and examine t^em
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march I. eotlA.
r ■
! James C. Sff Samuel W. Fisher,
f AT THE It STORE,
i No.-13, corner of Arch and Front ftrest.
r HAVE FOR SALEy
» Cotton and worrted H> fiery in trunki,aflored~
s A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
J « Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto PuUkat silk ditto
' Ditto Pondicherry.and Madcafs ditt*
» Ditto Gurrahs % ,
f Bengnl black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeen®, and
5 Few cherts best Hyson Tea
Ajfo—lsoo boxes bed London Window Glass,
c from Bby6,to 19 by T4—and 15 hhds. Glass
'» Ware affortcd, which they will dispose of cheaper
r than any in the city.
e 3tawtf
A Garden to be let,
FOR a term of yean, fitnate al out a mile from
the Court-hciufr, contain, ahout two ncret of
land, it a high (lat« of cultivation. \ large jrrern
it house, i- rreiled en the premire«, about forty feet
f long, with a Jodg.pg r»om, and feed loft al ove.
(J A eonfideraMc quantity of kitchen articles rttj
t regularly difpofird of on thefpo .
Enquire at 5», iouth Second-Qreet.
n march 11. r „ tt
I (.anal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL csmmence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, it
d SfOsn Dollars, *t W.M. BLACKBURN's Lottery
it and Brokers Offic?, No. 64, South second-flrcet—
-1 ickct. iothe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tut
DUlart, wl»ere chexJc books are kept lor r<giftrf
d ing iind examining in theie, the Oity ol Wafting*
i- ton, No ll.snd Patt.rfon Lotteries, and infom-.»-
» tion where tickets maybe bad in ireft'ofthe Lctte
ries authcrifed by law in any of :h« xutes of th«
It Union.
N.B. The bafin.-fs of a Brokf.inburins-ind
■e fellinp all kind; of PaUic Stock snd Sccoritie#,
1- .!ifex> 3 «tin? B-i'.f and slcXrt, of H«jd, of
lands, Hoafes, Sit ttc atter.icd to,
l - t'T BwvCKtflißN.
4 Nr»«cnt« 13,/, Ai/\ S iypTHKUMH ED STATES.
Fifth CtHgrtfs of the United Staffs :
AT THE 9ICOND SISSION,
leg-.n and held at the Cfty ef Philadelphia, I
ia the State ef Pennsylvania, en Mon
day, the thirteenth of N®*ember,
one thousand seven hundred
asd niuety-fev*n.
AN ACT
Making apprnpriatitru for the support of go
■ vernment for the year one thousand Jeven
hundred and ninety-eight ; and for other
furpofet.
k TJ E it enaSed by the Senate and
1 * 1J H'/ufe of Reft eft riat itet *f the
United States of America, in Cmgrefs afftm-
Utd, That for the expenditure of the civil
lilt ; for the fnpport of Consuls to the coift
•f Birbiry ; for the support of. the mint e
ftaMilhment, light-haulus, beacons, buoys
and pufclio piers, for the year one thousand
f«ven liuadred and ninety eight ; aad to fat
ikt'y certain miftcllaneoM* claims stated in the
leportof the Secretary of the Treasury, of
the eighth day of December, one thousand
Uven hundred and ninety-seven, together
with the incidental and contingent expenses
ef the several depaitmetns, and the offices
thereof, the following sums he, refpeftively
appropriated:—That is to fay:—-For the
ccunpciifationi granted by law ta the PreS
dent andVice-Prefident of thcUnited Slates,
thirty thousand dollars.
For the like compensations to the mem
bers of the Senate and Houfc of Represen
tatives, their officer* and attendants, esti
mated for a session of fix monthscontiimance,
vne hundred and ninety thousand, one hun
dred aiid fereiity-lfrc dollars.
For the rtcpeife of fire-wood, stationary,
printing-work, and all other contingent ex
penses of the two Houses ot Cougrefs, thir
teen thousand dollars.
For the compensations granted by law to
the chief ja ft ice, affoeiate-judges, diltrift
judges, and forty-four
tho'ifand nine hundred dollars.
For defraying the axpenfe of Clerks of
Courts, jurors and witnesses, in aid of the
fund arifiog from Wes, forfeitures and penal
ties ; and likewise for defraying the expenf
ea of profecutiun for offences against the
United States, and for fafe-keeping of pri
funerij thirty thoufand'dollars.
For compensation to the Secretary of
State, clerk* aad perfoos employed in that
department, nine thoafand one handred aad
sixty-two dollars and thirty-four cents.
For incidental and contingent expenses in
'the said department, fix thousand five hun
dred and eighty dollars.
For corrtj-enfation to the Secretary of the
Treasury, clerks and persons employed in
his office, eight thousand eight hundred and
f.fty dollars. '
For expense of stationary, printing, and
all other contingent expenses in the office of
the Secretary df the Treasury five hundred
dollars.
For compensation to the comptroller of.
the Treasury, cltrks and peffons employed
in his office, eleven thousand eight hundred
and fifty dollars.
For expense of stationary, printing, and
all other contingent txpenfe* in the comp
troller's office, eight hundred dollars.
For compensation to theTreafurer, clerks
and other* persons employed in his office,
four thousand fix hundred and fiftr dollars.
For expense of fire-wood, stationary,
printing, rent and all other contingencies ia
the Treasurer's office, fix hundred dollars.
I or compensation to the Auditor of the
Trealury,clerks and perfoas employed in his
office, eleven thoufaud uine hundred and
twenty-five dollars.
For expense of stationary, printing, and
all other contingent expenses in the Audi
tor's ottce, seven hundred and fifty dollar*.
For compensation to the commissioner of
the Revenue, cltrks and persons employed
in his office, five thousand five hundred and
twenty-five dollars.
For expense of Stationary, printing, and
all other contingent expenses in -the otiiee of
the commissioner of the Revenut, four hun
dred dollars.
For compensation to the Register of the
Tieafury, clerks and persons employed in
his office, fifteen thousand fix hundred aad
twenty-five dollars.
For expense ef stationary, printing, and
ail other contingent expenses in the Regif
ter'* office, (including books for the public
ftutks, and for the arrangement of the ma
rine papers) two thousand eight hundred
dollars.
For compensation to the Purveyor of
Public Supplies, two thousand dollars, and
five hundred dollars for a clerk.
For compensation to the Secretary of the
cemmiffioncr* of the finking fund, two hun
dred and fifty dollais.
For the payment of rent for the several
bouses employed in theTreafury department
(except theTreafurtr's office) two thousand
leven hundred and thirty dollars, and fixty
fix cents.
For expense of 6re-wood and candles in
the Several cSces of the Treasury depart
ment, (except the Treasurer's office,) three
thoufand five hundred dollars.
For defraying the expense incident to the
dating and printing the public account* for
the year, one thousand seven hundred and
uiiiety-eight, one thousand dollars.
F*r dctraying the expense incident to the
rriuyv -1 ef the I#. la aud record* of the
Treasury deparrment, and for the rer,> 1 a
houfc for fever»l of the offices near <*»> iy's I
ferry, on the Schuylkill, during part of the >
summer of the year one thousand seven huii- i
dred and ninety seven, four hundred and iif- ;
ty-four dollars, and forty-one cents.
For compensations to the several loan o •
Seers, thirteen thousand two hundred s i
fifty dollar).
For compensation to the Secretary <>|
War, clerks and persons employed injiis of
sice, eight thousand one hundred dollars.
For ex pence of firtj-wood, stationary,
printing,' retot and othctcontingent expens
es of the office of the Secretary of War,
two thousand dollars
For eempenfatiori to the accountant of
the War department, clerks and peifor.*
employed in htVofice, seven thousand seven
hundred and fifty dollar*.
Fof contingent expense* in th'e office of
the accountant of the War department, fix
hundred dollar*.
Tor compensation to the Surveyer-gme
ral, two thoafand dollars.
For compensation to the assistant survey
ors, chain-carrier*, axe-men, and other per
son* employed in carrying into effect the sur
vey* to be made by thf ait, intituled "An
. aft providing for the sale of the lands of the
United States, in the territory north-welt
of the river Ohio, and above the mouth ef
Kentucky river," ia addition to former ap
propriations, eight thousand dollars.
For compensation' to the governor, leere
tary and judges of the territery north-weft
of the river Ohio, five thousand one hun
dred itnd fifty <iollar*.
For expense* of stationary, office-rent,
printing patents for land, and other con
tingent expense* in tht said territory,three
hundred and fifty dollars.
For the payment ef sundry pension*
granted by the late government, one thou
sand one hundred and thirteen dollar* and
thirty-three cent*.
- For the annual allowance to the widow
and orphan children of Colonel Joha Har
ding, and to the orphan children of Major
Alexander Trueman, by the aft of eon
grefs, of thetwenty-feventh ef February,
onethoufnnd feveahundred and ninety-three,
seven hundred and fifty dollars.
For the discharge of such demands a
gainst the United States, on account of the
civil department, not otherwise provided
for, as (hall be ascertained and admitted in
dae cotirfe of fcttlement at the treasury,
and which are of a nature, according to
the usage thereof, to require payment in
fpecfe, one thoufaud dollars.
tor the compensation* to consuls to Bar
bary powers, for fix months, the former
appropriation being fprone year, five thou
sand dollars.
lor compensations to the following asfi
cers of the mint :■ the Difeftor, two thou
sand dollars j the Treasurer, one thousand
two hundred dollars ; the Afiayer, one
thousand five handred dollars ; the Chief
coiner, one thousand five hundred dollars ;
the Meltcr and Refiner, one thgufand five
hundred dollars ; the Engraver, one thoa
fand two hundred dollars ; three Cleiks at
five hundred dollar* each, one thousand five
hundred dollars.
For the wage* of persons employed sjt
the different branches of melting, refining,
coining, carpenter'*,' millwright's, and
fmith'* work, including the sum of eight
hundred dollar* per annum allowed to an
assistant coiner and die-forger, who also
oversets ;the exetution oi the iton-work,
fix thousand dollars.
For the purchnfe of iron-mongery, lead,
wood, coals, stationary, office-furniture,
and for all other contingencies of the e&ab
lilhment of the mint, five thousand seven
hundred dollars.
For the maintenance and support of light
boufes, beacons, bnoys and public piers,
and ftakeage of channels, bar* and Ihoals,
and for occasional improvement in the_con
ftruftian of lanterns, and of the lamps and
materials nfed in them, including an allow
ance for the enctcafed number of light-hou
ses, and for the advanced price of fpernaa
ceti oil, thirty-fix thousand dollar*.
For the balance carried to the " fnrplus
fund," of an appropriation for building a
light-house near the entrance of George
town harbor, in the state of South-Caro
lina, five thousand dollar*.
For the additional expense eltimated as
neceflary for erefting the said light-house,
two thousand dollars.
For the payment of Nicholas Fifti fuper
jhfor of the revenue for the diftrift of New-
York, so much (hort of an appropriation
for the purchase of land at Montock-point,
in the state of New-York, for the parpofe
of erefting a light-house .thereon, two hun
dred and fifty-five dollars and twelve cents.
For the purchase of prefies, the engrav
ing of die*, and other expense* incident
to the preparations made, and to be made,
for executing the aft, intituled " An aft lay
ing duties on stamped vellum, parchment
and paper," pal Ted the sixth day of July,
one thousand seven hundred and nincty-fe
ven, nine thousand dollars.
For the expense incurred by the commit
tee of the house of representative*, on the
impeachment of William Blount ; for the
compensation of the members, Jfid for in
cidental charges as cftimatedbythechairraan
of the committee, two thousand fix hun
dred and twenty-fix dollars.
For the difuharge of such miscellaneous
demands against the United States, not o
tberwife provided for, as (hall have -been
admitted in a due course of fettlenent at
the treasury, and which are of a nature,
oocording to the usage thereof, to require
payment in specie, four thousand dollars.
Sic. 2. And he it further enacted, That
the several appropriations herein before
made, (hall he paid and discharged out of
the fund of fix "hundred thousand dollars,
referred by the aft " making proviGon for
the debt of the United Btate>," together
with so much as may be neceflary, of (he
proceed* ef the duties on imports, and the
tor.njgj.tf ships and vcfTels, and the duties
■: i' otitic diil.Hed spirits and dills, which
ill ycciuc until iit ciotcof the present year.
»S;*c. 3. A"d be it further eiaßed, That
t . ill be, and hertbv in further appro
pr ttri% to be paid out of a<iy monies in the
f'.'.ry of the United States, not other
• i'ic appropriated, the folJowing fumi, to j
wit 1
'For the payment of awards fey the com
mifTmuers appointed in pursuance of the
sixth article of the treaty of Amity, Com
rr.eroe and Navigation, between the United
States, and Great-Britain* relative to the
dtbts due by citizens of the United States,
to Britiih fubjefts, three hundred thousand
dollars.
For defraying the extraordinary expen
ce» of afterfaftiing the river f)f. Croix, un
der the fifth article of the said treaty, twelve
thousand collars.
For defraying ttie extraordinary expense
of running and marking the boundary line '
between the territories of the United States
and Spain", twelve thousand dollars.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Sweater of the House of Representatives
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States
arid President of the Senate.
Unitid Statss, 1
Approved, March 19, 1798.'J
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
' AN ACT
Providing the meant of intereourfe between the
United States and Foreign Nations.
c T5 E't enalted by the Senate and
Jtj House of Representatives, of
the United States »f America, in Conorefi »f
---kmbled, That the President of the United
States /hall be, and he hereby is authorized
to draw from the Treasury of the United
States, a sum not exceeding forty thpufand
dollar), annually to be paid out of the mo
nies arising from the duties on impor'.s and
tonnage, for the support of such persons as
hcfhall commiflionto fervcthe United States
in foreign parts, and for the expense inci
deut to the bufirtefs in which they may be
employed : Provided, that, exclusive of an
outfit, which {hall, in no cafe, exceed the
amount of one year's full salary to the Mi
nister Plenipotentiarv, or Charge des-Af
faires, to whom the fame may be allowed,
the President ftiali not allow to any mimfter
Plenipotentiary, a greater sum than at the
rate of nine thousand dullars per annum, as
a compensation for all his personal services
and expenses ; nor a greater) sum for the
fame, than four thousand five hundred dol
lars per annum, to a Charg6-des-Affairei ;
nor a greater sum for the fame, than one
thousand three hundred and fifty dollars per
annum, to the Secretary of any Minister
Plenipotentiary.
Seo. 2. And be it further enafttd, That in
all where aity sum or (urns of money
hive ifTued, or frail hereafter ifTue from the
Treafilry, for the purpofelcf intereourfe or
treaty, with Foreign Nations, in pursuance
ps any law, th« President shall be, and he
hereby to cause the fame to be
duly fettled annually with the accounting
; officers of the Treasury, in manner follow
ing, tLst is to fay ; —by eaufing the famt to
be accounted for, fpecifically in allinftanees,
wherein the expenditure thereof, may, in
his judgment, be made public ; and by ma
king a certificate or certificates, or eaufing
the Secretary of State to maktf a certificate
or certificates of the amount of such expen
ditures as he may think it advisable not to
fpe eify ; and every such certificate shall be |
deemed a fufficient voucher for the sum or
sums therein expressed to have been ex
pended.
Sec. 3. And he it further enalfed, That
for defraying the expenses of intereourfe
between the-United States and Foreign Na
tions, during the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety eight, there be further
appropriated, in addition to the aforefaid
sum of forty thousand dollars, and out of
any monieain the Treasury of the United
States, not ot.herwif» appropriated,, the
sum of twenty-eight thousand fix hundred
and fifty dollars.
Sec. 4. And be it further eno3ed, That
the aft pa fled on the firfl day of July in the
year one thousand hundred and ninety,
intituled " An aft providing the means of
intereourfe between the United States and
Foreign Nations," and the aft pafled on
the>ninth day of February, in the year one
tthoufand seven hundred and ninety-three,
intituled, " An aft to continue irt force for
a limited time, and amend the aft, intituled,
" An aft providing the means ofintercourfe
between the United States and Foreign Na
tions," shall be, and they hereby are re
pealed.
I f Sec. 5. And be it further enaSedThat
this aft shall be and remain in force until the
end of the firft fcfiion of the sixth Congress,
and no longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Ukitid States, \
Approved, March 19, 1798. y
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department e>f State.
Timothy- PiCKiam*,
-» Secretary of State.
For Sale,
By Ellhton y John P£rot,
Nt 41, Nertb Wtttr Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipo and
quart r 4 years old and fit for immediate uft
Inferior do.
A few bales Allihad Coflcs
Ba' daooa Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvali, No. 1, to 9
A fewbsgsot Juniper Berries
A parcel of Seal Ltathcr, aad
A few boxes of China,
march 3 _ tuJcf^w
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TV I ST) A Y MAXCH 20.
The bill appropriating a sum ef money
for providing suitable buildings for the gov- ;
ernment at the aity of Waftington, wa*
read the third time and palled.
The Speaker laid before the house a let
ter from the Secretary of the Treasury, ac
companying a letter to him frum the Comp
troller of the Treasury, with an abftraft of
the official emoluments and expences of the
Officers of the Cufloms, purfnant to the 4th
feck ion of the aft of the 14th of February,
1795, which, on motion of Mr. New, was
referred to l\e committee of commerce and
manufaftur»s.
A petition was presented from the inha
bitants of Woodftock, and another from
' Cat (kill, in the (late of New-York, praying
for an alteration in th* poft-rOads.— Refer
red to the committee on poft-offic«s and post
roads.
Mr. D. Foster from the committee of
•laims made a'report on the petition of tee
dt Kevfcr, which was ordered to lie on the
table.
On motion of Mr. Otis, the house resol
ved itfclf into a committee of whole on the
report of the committee to whom was refer
red the fubjeft of our foreign consuls abroad;
which having been read, and a resolution
being under confideralion for appropriating
dollars to refmburfe advances for the
relief of sick find disabled seamen.
Mr. Otis moved to fill the blank with
30,»oo dollars, which was the sum which
the Secretary of State had estimated uecef
fary. y
' Mr. Gallatin rose to move an amendment
to tlys resolution. It appeared, .he said,
from the speech of the President of the U
nited States, by the letter of the Seeretary
of State to the' committee, and by different
letteis inclosed therein, that the resolution
before the committee would not be adequate
to the end proposed to be effeftcd. Two
objefts were contemplated. The Secreta
ry ot State mention* that there have been
advances made by our Consuls in making
and supporting the claims us our citizens,
on account ef captures made by the cruifera
of Franee and Spain, and also for the fub
fifteace of seamen thrown on fhdre, in con
sequence of such captures. The Secretary
of State had said that 30,00s dollars would
cover these advances at present, for both
objefts, whereas only one was inserted in the
resolution ; and it is evident the committee
do not mean to report another pefolution for
the other objeft, since the chairman propo
sed to fill the blank with the whole sum es
timated for both purposes.
The resolution was objeftionabl* in an
other point of view. It will appear, by re
curring to the President's speech, and to
fundrylettersascompanyingthir report fro*i
our agents abroad, that the reason why sick
and disabled seamen cannot be relieved, is,
not because fiiffieient money has not been
appropriated for the purpose, but because
the comptlfation allgwed by law is not fuf
ficient. It is only twelve cents a day. If,
therefore, 30,000 dollars be appropriated
•for this purpose, the objeft will net be an
swered, without an authority to allow sick
aud disabled seamen more than twelve cents
a day He would, therefore, move an a
mendsient which fiiould make the resoluti
on read as follows. It only went to the re
lief of seamen ; as he fuppoftd gentlemen
had no other objeft in view, it would be ne
cefTary to have a separate resolution for that
objeft.
" Resolved, That the Secretary of State
be authorised, under the direftion of the
President of the United States, to reim
burse such rttafonablc advances as may have
bicn made, or shall during the present year
be made, by Consuls of the United States
in foreign eountries, for the relief of sick
and disabled seamen, beyond the sums for
that purpose allowed by law, and that
dollars be appropriated for the lame."
Agreed.
Mr- Otis said, he would lay another re
solution on the table, to answer the other
purpose contemplattd. The resolution had
been fubmiited generally—but both objefts
were intended to be included in thebill when
brought in. He, therefore, proposed j to
fill the blank in the resolution which had
been agreed to with half the sum, viz.
15,000 dollars.
Mr. Gordon thought itvfrouldbe b<rft to
incorporate both objefts in the fame resolu
tion, as the estimate had been made upon
both, and it was impossible for the commit
tee to determine how much would be want
ed for each objeft. *
Mr- Gallatin observed, the resolution
might be agreed to in blank, and filled up
in the bill. Mr. G. said, it appeared that the
consuls had,'in some instances, advanced Mo
ney on account of the claims of our citizens
which it would be necessary for government
to reimburse. He undcrltood, however, that
merchants and owners of velTels usually reim
bursed the money expended by our consuls
in making and enforcing their claims, and
that all which \jras required of government
was to advance the money. Before any ap
propriation was made for this objeft, it
would be necefTary to authorize the expense
which might be done at the fame time that
the appropriation was made. Mr. G. propo
sed the following resolution .
" Resolved, that the President of the
Uaited States he authorised to reimburse
certain advances made by the consuls of the
United States in supporting the claims of
our citizens before the Tribunals of foreign
countries, and that the sum of dollars be
appropriated for the fame."
This resolution was also agreed to, and a
committee appointed to bring a bill accor
dingly.
Mr. Harper said, he had received infor
mation from the Secretary of the Treasury
that the accounts of the late Williams Car
mickael, dhwgM ies affaires *t Spaia, ' t.«4
been examined, and that tht.e was found •
balance due to Kis rcprefratativc of 9664
dollars, 14 cent*. He,- therefore,
the following refutation to the Route,which
he wiftied to be committed to a committee
of the whole :
" Rrfolved that Cellar* he oppro
priated for the balance due to William Car
michael, late Charge» de* Aflairei at the
court of Spain."
Thehoufeaccordinglywentinto a commit,
tee of the whole on this fubjtdt, and after
having filled the blank with the sum above
mentioned, rose, and the house having con
curred (n the amendment, a hill wap order
ed to be bfought in accordingly.
The house, on motion of Mr. Hartley,
rcfolvetl itfelf into * committee of the whole
on the bill for continuing in force the aft
prohibiting for a limited time, the exporta
tion of aim* and amunitioa, and forencour
raging the importation thereof.
No amendment being propafed, commit
tee rose, aud the bill was ordered to be ea
grofled for a third reading to-morrow-
Mr. Gallatin presented the petition of
Hugh Means, of Wafliingtcra, praying for
a penfion.-Referred to the committee of
claims.
On motion of Mr. Warper, the house
then resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the bill for an amicable settlement
| of limits with the state of Georgia, and au
thorizing the eftablifhuent of a government
in the Miffiilippi Territory ; when a debate
took plice which occupied the remainder
of the fitting (a (ketch of which (hall ba
given to-morrow.) Tift: committee rose, and
the bill was re committed to the felett com.
mittee, for the purpose of obtaining certain
information on the fubjeft, relative to the
title of the United States to a part of that
territory. Adjourned.
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
OW lying at J«ffe and R. Wain's wharf— A.
flout, fhong velTel, »f about 170 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to g« on board, and begins to load to-raorrow.
F«r Frtltht only, apply to
PRATT KINTZING,
Ho. 95, North Wattr-ftreet.
vruhm, JiriT RECEIVED, FOk.SAI.JS,
H bales Tickleburgs and Oinabrij*
a do. Vatt».bornes
I do. bleached Hcffians
J package Oil Cloth
I < heft aud 1 barrels Snuff Corse
30 Liquor Cases
99 anthers pearl Baryle, sod
4 cases elegant Carriage Harneis, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HATE rOF. lAII
Claret in cases, Port ine in pipes, Raffia Soap
in {mailboxes. Rice, Brimflone, Tumble™, Win
-1 dow G'afs, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, HeßiatiSj'Brewn Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march 80 tutbsiw
Law iiook Store,
No. 319, High-street.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the-fa-vers (hewn him in hi*
efforts tocftablifh a Store for the sale of Law
Boot« only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
1 of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his col!e&ion now on hand,
which he suppose* to be more extensive, than iu
the poffcffitn of any one person for file in Ameri
ca, he expe&s daily very large supplies from Lon
doi & Dublin, particularly trom ths latter place,
hacingchiefly confined hi»importations to thofeadi
tions, '» being in his opinion equally correct with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged
G O limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Books, it will appear obvious to profeflional gen
tlemen the great advantages they have in puichafing
from him, both as to felevSion and price, of which
the encouragement he has received for several y«\rfc
pall, is the bed testimony he can offer.
n-arch to. 3»w3w
* IMPORTED,
la the Brig BenJamin Frankli
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR IALB BY TUX SVBHtllll,
Claret in cafki
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and baikttt
Lunelle ">
Sa'uterne C - r. r
Macarty, and ( VV ' ne,m Cases '
Medoo J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
- WH« HAS 9N MANS,
Bourd<:aux Brandy in pipes "J latitUd
Iriih market 7 At- • r > to
Mfdoe, and Sau'erncJ inCS mCaC% J drawback
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter casks
Rota
Pimento in bag*
Two trunks of Umbrella*, and
About 4000 buflicls I. ivcrpool Salt.
march 19 raw&ftf
forgeries Committed.
WHEREAS fevera] forgeries have been com
mitted in this city by one or two person*
known by the names of Dr. Grant, alias Smith,
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a green coat,
tall in pcifon, and genteel, had loft one or twjo
teeth in front ; lodged, abcut July, 1796, at Mr.
Grimes's tavern, at the George, iu North Second
llreet ; "his frieuds live iu New-England ; fuppof
e«i to have committed f.veral Torgrrks in NaW-
York, and is said tQ be confined at tic wheel-bar
row at Ealtinvre for ftetltng watch, s. Ihe other
is" a fliort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert,—
known by Mr. Grime* and Mr. Bignail, and ieve
ral other persons in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wm. Pa erf
mam. No. 15, South Fifth-ftreet, will be elleem*
ed a favor.' ■ Gllbtrt is between 20 and 3®,
years old; yellow, sickly look.
m rch 17.
At a Meeting of the Prelideat
and Managers of ths Delawark and Scu j ylkiLL
Canal Company, Fcbruiry 17th, 1798,
That ten dollars on each fliare of Stock
be railed for ; ani the Treasurer
give pnblic notice thereof agrc«aWe
to iaw.
Ext re SI from tie Afhiutet.
GIORGE WOR RAUL.,
to a resolution oi the PreQdent
and Managers ol the XMEhmt; and StbvylliU Lanas
Company, the Stockholders arc hereby required t#
make a payment of ten dollars on each «f their
rdpe&ive Ihares on or bvfore the lit of pri 1
to WMa CrOV'£lT» Treasurer.
February *B%31,!) C <£ajetie.
PIII LA DEL ?HI A ,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, March 2r
TSe following resolutions were yesterday of
fered in the fcoufe of Representatives of
this state hv Mr. William Maclav, fecon
dedby Mr. Wcaver-
WHEREAS, it is incumbent on every
part of the Legislature of a tree state, to
tvstch over the public welfare, and to pre
vent, by every juftifiable meafurc, the dan
gers that may threaten the Conimoawealth :
Therefore Refolded,
* That the representatives of Pennsylvania
<onfider it as their ipdifpenfable duty, at this
alarming crilis, to exurefs thfir unequivocal
fyntiments on the i"ubje£t of engaging in
hostility witU any of the European powers
now at »*ar. While they lament the dis
tresses of their fellow -citizens engaged in
commerce, they openly declare their disap
probation of seeking redress hy arms ; the
cspencecfwhich mull be Certain k the event
doubtful. To interfere in the quarrels of
foch powerful rivals, is< in their opinion,
highly imprudent, where perhaps equal dan
ger is to be apprehended from the protn&i
on of on.e as the the hoKility of the other,
and tht hour of peace may behold the U
oited States Sacrificed t* the interest of both.
While any door to reconcilation remains o
pen, negsciation may do much, and some
compensation for injuries, maybe obtained ;
but hostility cuts off at once all hope of
corapromife, incurs further loss, and an ac
ctttnmulation of debt, which an infaat coun
try, already burthened with the erpences
of a revolationary war, cannot bear and
itinft of eoMrfe involve the United States in
the miferiet attendant on a state of warfare,
that last, that worfl of all human calamities.
The representatives of Pennfylvani? there
fore bear their public teftimany against war
in any shape, or with any nation, UJilefs
the territories of the United States should
fce "invaded j but more especially against a
people with whom their hearts and hands
have been so lately united in friendfhip.
ReSolved, that the foregoing Resolution
be transmitted t» the Senators and Repre
sentatives for the State of Pennsylvania, in
the CongreSs of the United States, with a
request that they pay due attention to the
fine,
Oir motion that they should lie on the ta
ble, debate took place, and
the motion was finally negatived.
The yeas aid nays on this question were
it follows :
TEAS.
MeflVs. Baird, Boilean, Bcnnet, Cun
ningham, Findley, Frailey, Gehr,
Harris, Hendricks, Hoge, Horn, Kenne
dy, Kraufe, Leib, Linnard, Lyle, S. Ma
clay', W • Maclay, Mawhorter, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Painter, Philfon, Rea, Shoe
maker, Sinilie, Snyder, Sterret, Weaver,
Whitehill, Worrel, Wright— 33.
N A r s.
Messrs. Latimer, Ball, Brooke, Browne,
Bull, Campbell, Evans, Eyerly, Forreft,
Foalke, Gartner, Gurney, Hannum, Hcn
derSon, Herou, Hiltzheimer, Hopkins,
Hochftetter, Keys, Kirk, Kiflly, Lewis,
Marshall, M'PherSon, Pil n:r. Power,
Scott, Seckel, Stairhird, Strickler, Tit
ermary, Turner, Wallace, -Wain, Wat-
Son, Wcfls, White-—37.
Net amount of revenue arising in each diS
trift, after deducing all expences of col
lection, from Stills, and domeiUc dift'lled
Spirits, Sales at Auftion, Sunff-Mills and
Machinery, Snuff, domellic refined Sji
gar. Carriages, and Licences*to mail
Wines and foreign Spirits, withifit the
United States, for the year 1795-6.
Dolls. Cls.
New-Hampfliire, - - 3>494
Massachusetts, - - 173,000
Rhwde-Ifland, - 40,944 34^
Connecticut, .• - 30,247
Vermont, • • - 1,103 12$
New-York, - - 54,4(4 17
New-Jerfev, » - 8,903 48-$
Pennsylvania, - - 105,208 88
Delaware, - « • - 517 75$
Maryland, - - 51,610 17^
Virginia, - - - 65,728 61
Ohio, - - - - 8:522
Tenneffce, - 2,812 94-5
Nerth-Carolina, - 9,849 93
South-Carolina, - 1 3> 1 93 82^
Georgia, - - - 1,984 9 i
Total.
jExtrall of a letter from Li/ban, dated Janu
try 19,
"As to politics, nothing stirring. The
British fleet bring into this port a number of
French privateers which infeft this coast :
feveu have arrived within these five days, all
(hips and brigs. Vari«us are the reports
fcith refpedt to the peace of this country,
with France ; I believe it is not very distant.
" The Britifli fleet continues to blockade
Cadiz : though some Americans fortuuate
ly get in, they make 7 poor hand of it—
for the Marroguino are tuffered to enter and
keep the market conithntly Supplied with
wheat kc. insomuch that Some cargoes have
been forwarded here from that port."
.The friends of the Union of the Ameri
can States, are most cordially congratulated
o» the fate of the refolotions brought for
ward inthe House of Representatives of this
Sta'e yesterday. Had they succeeded, the
conftqirenees would in all probability have
rea' «d the early predictions of our enemies,
that our Union w> s a Rope of Sand, and
thatjthe people were totally incomjKtent to
governing tltemfelves. Heaven.
" fwtre is bruk;-u and we have cfcaped."
The essays under th; : .»of "'An
American Merchant"' :<ppi r/d in
three of thei sty' 'i 1 request oFthe
author for their re publK jtien in this Ga
zette, cannot be complied with. It would
be a facrificc, for whieh at any time, and
particularly tF'e prefer,t, we could find no
apology. The ruthor enforces his request
by appealing t.o the Editor'i " inipartietlity"
—bur what do luch writers r.ean by impar
tiality ?Is it not a cloak, a passport for
essays, in wh eh the honor and intereils of
our country are basely prostrated and be
trayed ?
The titue is come when this cant will no
longeraufwcr-their purpofc—The enemies
of pur independence rnuft afiume some new
shape to deceive. Besides, when our coun
try is a party, this boasted impartiality is
but another name for treason. "He that
is not for us, is against us."
The lollowing extracts are made from the
speech of Mr. Giles upon the proportion
'for sequestrating Britilh debts. How
much they differ from his present Senti
ments it is Himeceffary to fay. What are
the motives which have led ta this differ
ence it reds with his God, his •onfcience
aud th* public ts determine.
" He presumed that a state of things
wight exist between two nations in which
rtprifal would not only become the right but
the duty to the nation Sustaining the wrong.
This happens when one natio» without
cause forcibly feir.es upoi> the effedls of ano
ther, or of its citizens, and withholds them
without reditution or compensation ; and
when the nation whoSe effefts (hall be so
Seized and detained, (hall posseSs no other
means of indemnification.. The right of
reprisal in the injured nation, in such a cafe,
grows out of the injury sustained and its in
ability to redrcSs itlelfin any other way.—
The duty of the injured nation tt> make re
prisals, is founded upon felf prefervatiou and
incafeof theloffesof its citizens, upon the
promise of the prote&ion of the property
faciedly made by the nation to its individu
al members." Again,
" A regard for peace has been eonftrued
into a fear of war. A resistance of the
ings of the peopfe f®r the of France
has~been palatable food for British arrogance
and presumption, Submiflion to aggrefliou
has invited new aggression ; appeals for jus
tice have been deemed testimonies of debili
ty, till at length the United States after
having been dripped of their citizens and
property are upon the eve of a war becauSe
they have not exerted their rights at an ear
lier period. If this condudt has been here
tofore wife and pacific, experience has taught
us that it is uo longer so, nothing can be
expe&ed from the justice, moderation or
honor of a court which has proved itfelf «-
qually a ft ranger to them all—but before
such a tribunal acquiefence will beget inju
ries, injuries will beget insults and insults
will beget contempt, degradation and war."
It appears by Calender's, letter to his
friend in Baltimore, puhliilied in the Auro
ra of this morning, that blunderipg is not
confined to one of the three Britiifc king
doms. The Scot has written a detail of
fafts and tranfaftions which happened many
days fubfeqwent to the date of his letter.
Another Blunder.—He holds up the mi
ferablc state of Belgium, Holland, Venice,
kc. from French fraternity ami embraces, as
a beacon and warning to the United States.
Th?s was a flip for which Callender will un
doubtedly be checked by his employer.
MR. FF.nno,
A fool, in Cailender's Aurora of this
morning, give# us an anecdote of JamesTl.
which in fa<ft belongs to Dr. Busby, offlog
ging memory—The truth of the it cry.—
" Charles 11. paid a visit io Busby's School;
Eufby in walking with him through the
different apartments, kept hishat on; at the
fa-me lime excused liirnfelf t/j the monarch
by begging his pardon for so doing, and
mentioned to him that if his boys thought
there were a perf»n in the world greater
than him, he would never be able to keep
them in oider."
The reptile aforementioned, has made a
great deal of noise about Mi. Dayton and
the Quaker's hats I am a violent demo,
fir, and juftify it ; I bring precedent tis
right The Prefidcnt of the council jof
" Cinq Cens" (which to take the prolonga
tion, means "without sense) ordered a door
keeper to turn a quakrr out of the hall for
keeping his hat on Vide (be Aurora.
Mr. Frs-NO,
Bache in his paper of this morning fays
that the rcfolutions offered in the ho*fe of
representatives ytfterday were rejefted
" chiefly on the grouna that the legiflaturc
had not a tight to inftruft Senators in con
gress, much less one branch." This like
mod of his other assertions, is a p'&lpable
mifrepreSentation. The idea was urged on
ly as a Secondary argument againfl the mea
sure, aid so far was it from having any eon
fiderable effeiS, that Mr. Kennedy declar
ed he (liould vote for the prcpofitions Iving
upon the table, although he was opposed
to their fubftancc, because it had been said
that to inftrutt the senators was unconstitu
tional. Several other members, among whom
was Dr. Leib himfelf, ftatedthat they fhmild
ultimately vote againfVjhe rcfolutions, who
voted for their lying upon the table.
A Spectator.
IR RATA,
In the piece signed " Milo"—in the se
cond column, 3d paragraph from the top,
35th line, after the word sgain, read " re
jeded our minifters"—Tn Bth line from
conclusion, for foe, read be, and dele the
comma,
%* The Subjcnbers. for the publication
undi r thef'gtlature of SciPlO, are inform
ed that it is ttoiu. ready for delivery. The
price ij 25 Cents.
For the Gazsttl 3/tfi: UVtftSD STATis. i
Mrt. r LSs'S'O f
THERE f at thij moment an awfnl f«f
perfc on the countenance ot ev ry tu\r n
Every mind teems wrapt in the of
the present (itnation of our country, and anxiouOy
pondering the means of extricatinf it :roni the
difficulties in which it ha" Keen involve! by the
ui.juU, contemptuous and impioun ifleaftiros of the
French p^vernment.,—which from ths comoiance
ment or' the rrvrl-'tion, while it has ptofeffed
{"jhliily the »ioft ardent wishes for the prosperity of
the United States, and a desire that we fh«uld not
in the war of Euro e, ha* used .every secret
ar.d inftiitvt artifice to detach us from the wife fyf
t« mof nwutralitv we had adopted—To fpecify the
nqmcrpus proofs of this c n ('now already
made mapifeft to ths world) 'Aioulcl unnccefTarily
occupy that time by redious deiails, wi.ich ought
to t » manly decision and energetic ac
ton Genet's secret demonnrate the
hollojcv'rind perfidious intent.an of his million and
the rage at his disappointment, the aniicty of vut
Gallic friends to efl*e(s! covertly wba f tbey c}*nly re
nounced: Nor did th- jaft indignation or the peo
pie • f Ameriei at hit. condtafif induce the rulers of
France icy relir qniih their -dclign. i hey fiicfificed
that m niOer more efFtdlualiy lo lull the lujpii ions
which his had excited, that they (night re
sume the attempt und-r other auspices and iu a
more fccure and certain manner. Fauehet pi»r
fu**d in a different mode the fame plan ; and while
we were demoNstrating T>y every pubhc and private
aft, our (\cfireto live in friindfhi? with tht French
republic ; to shew our partialities and preference
lor her not by words, bet by uncquivocal deeds—
oy the payment firft of tiie arrea;* of our debt to
that nation, whijeh had considerably accumulated,
and then by facilitating to her the receipt of the
whole of it before it became due, he and hisfuccrf
lor, Adet, were perpetuaHy demanding from
iu contrary to that neutralty which they always
declared it was our inu red and their wifli that we
fhoold observe; and by insolently attempting' ro
di&ate to 9ur government the course of its adions,
Finally, the last nnniHt: executed, what Gc»et,
witli all hi' eccentricity, only threatened. Heap
pealed to the people, from the executive authority,
their confHtulional organ for t xterior' relations :
thereby <■ penly attempting; ih fuf<verfion of our
government, and the profiration of the chief ma
jriflrate of the nation ; nay, the independence ef
the nation itfeLf, to the arbitrary will ol a Freud
deputy.
The time of this appeal r/il Ve
as well a - the infolcnt manner in which it was made.
It was at the moment when an cle&lan fur aPre
fidtnt was depending ; evidently with a view »f
| countenancing by an »p;n the pljn
which had been long maturing iu secret conclave#
and 'promoted by tvtry dsrt (if. rot ccnupt)
machination, of j»l«it>g as the laccefTor ef th«y
virtuous and inflexible Wafhing'on, a man whom
they expedited to he obfequioui to their will, from
his known preference to their nation, Uoth un.ier
the ahfolnte monarchy of Lewis XVI, and. the
(hort-lived defpotifma which have fuececiied : a
man whom they regarded a* hotlile to the neutral
pi licy which our government had pursued ; and
to all ths ihiportant inturior arrangements which it
had adapted a man 6t in their opin
ion, for their puryofes; wlish they expeded t«
wield at their -pltafure and who th y fuppofeil
wouldfervilely fubmjtto aiS tht d. graded and sub
ordinate part of Vice Roy of France, inttead of
the dignified chjrailer of the chief of a brave, a
free and independent nation It ii to be hoped that
they would haye been deceived ia their expeda
tions—had the event of that ele&ion lucceeded to
the extent of their fangmno and that fucj.
a man «»uld not be found in the United Statu, so
l»'t to his own honoi and hi« country's rights and
and i'lterefl*. But failing in this last effort, b)
machiuatiena within cr eoantry to influence an.'
direct cur councils, eonfeious of having treated us
with the mcft hollow perfidy, a> well as the mot!
overiiea-ing infolenc ; eonfeious of having done
aits whi'h onghi forever to excite o»r abhorrence
and indignation ; the only res arte they had le't
wastocoaspel by forte our fnbmiflioii. Aad at
length to that they f arc ref'irted—in a manner un
precedented in the hiitory ef civilized natioas, ami
in open violation of tie pirticular compad which
ought to have governed their condufl towards us
f'revH Us to the miflion »f Mr. Piuckney, to
[ the French reifhblic, in ihe year 1794, render
ed necefliry Ly the fawning an fervde Cbudufl
of his pvedefeflor, our treaty of commerce with
Trance h.-d been repeatedly violated, whenever
the ne.-cißty or convtnieace of the Freach na
lion required it, by interrupting our lawful
trade—by lairing for suhlic ule the cargoes « f
o«r merchants at forced pneej —by tugiedinj
to );ay even thofr prices—by imbargi ing on,
velfels, in the molt cruel to-rot is their
ports—by countenancing the piratical conduct
of private cruisers—-and oppefiog 171 the way of
juftiee and redreft every vrxstious form and d;
lay. JJotwithftanding thcte continued and re
iterated wrongs, we remained iininoveablt io
our deCre to live in cordial friend,'hip with the ,
Fren, h republic, and for this purpose Mr Pinck
ney was lent to Paris, th at laranly and flignitied
1 xp'ana-ions ef our rights and our wiflits might
again re-tflablMh rhe friendftip oft the two na
tions on the balis of jaliinr. He was driven
fram their territory with every mark of con
tumely, unheard, and the infuit w». followed
by aggravated injuries Our desire far peace
towever, was not eitirigtiifned, even by this
ha:,ghiy and contemptuous treatment: ■ second
mofi fjlemn embassy was sent to implore thai
haughty'people t» redress our wrongs,,to re
il«— e> or violated rights, and, on terms contill
cut with the boner and independence of buth
Countries revert back to their friendSiip ac
-1 nitjmed relatior.l. H.:w has this fecund so
lemn embassy beeD received ? By contempt more
marked, by ir.fuits rfioredegrading, by injuries
mo e aggravated Theerifis is at length arriv
ed when we must determine whether • e w I
longer submit nur property to Ffencn pirac\.
—whether we ftiill patiently continue to behoi,
; fres hooters dtfpoil us of our wealth, —~r whr
| ther we fha!. defend ourrfelves before we are dt
pnved <!• the means cf doing it ; before ou
I ihil» b-V« increaled the flrength of our enemies,
! lie fore our commerce is annihilated ; beuire «u
I rel«urccs are ..eftreyed ; before France (hai
have 11 other country to piilafe and to d-folatt
We have yet the means of fruftrating the (te
signs, rf foreign foes or domefiic treason.
loler>» appeal to the enerjies ef our njtion,
w.il prevent si 1 her injurns from abread, am:
ap;al traitors at home.
It i> wo thy of o'tr serious refleiflions, and
they are queSions which every Amencan ought
to determine in his own bieaft—Whether »e
broke fn.ra dependence on Britain to become
of France ? Whether, if our covn
try must submit to foreign rule, it would not
have been better to have remained fubjefl to the
blood cf our aneeflor-, than to become colonicj
to firingers ? Whether, having eft'cifled our in
depen'.encr fiom britain, and lettled advanta
gcoufly ill our dispute* with that nation, it i*
nat'iime to bury our animosity, and become
rur interest to live in po,ee with the people
whrl'e blood fl"ws in our veins,—from whom
we inherit our of true liberty,—from
whom w« derive our valuable system *f juris
prudence, anr jhat H'ife isAituiiosi ef trial by
jury, so eflemial te the prefe vatior. nf life a: 4
property, it particularly belongs to the South
ern it.tes to determine, « I ether a lul jtflion 10
Frmice is confident with the peculiar Oate c f
their Society, and rar, in anv degree, promote
* See Mr. cn'j letyr to Mr. JMarrit, cm'
TAr. Pulfr 'img t to Air. C. C. i'inchnfy »n lit tpnJutl
J-ra .a lit *xit in. and Mr'i Uu-arek brr.
their tlitir igricuLtre T tiieir lafcly }
A.nd it i» a inMt important qu ltimi fcr the ri-
In* of /tncrira to decide, ■. .■fcet.he.r it be en
fifcent wiih our welfare or that oi the tMiir.a
rice, to behold one tiomiraiu power overwhelm
and I'ubiugato Europe : All llvfc queltio* s me
rit ferial:, reflection and a fepaeare c3i(i i lien.
The«riier o! the foregoing cursory thought,
may oecafiooally to rch there, if an abler pen
m ill not undertake.tho taflt, and a continual ex
e-tion ta provide tor the comforts of a numerout
family, Dull aiTord the leisure.
■„ CUiiTIIJS. j
GAi E7l E MARINE LIST.
PORT OP PHILADELPHIA. |
ARRIVED, . DAYS, j
Schosaer Ann, Pritchr.rd, Virginia 10 J
Liberty, Bufkirk, N. York S !
Sluop Nymph, Tyler, j d». 8 .
Harmony, Elwood, ti*. 6 •
CLIAREB,
Brig Lively, Stewart, P. bu Prince (
Lady Walhjnrtos, Latimer, Tcneriffe
Schooner Sally, Day, Burton
Sloop Fox, Norton, New-Bedfurd ,
BALTIMORE, March i 9.
The brig Bctfy, captain Smith is in the
river, 78 days from the Isle of France.
By lit Belfy, the following intcHivejr.ci is re
ceived :
That two Freach frigates had bombarded
Madras, and done considerable damage to
the town, had rua a company's (hip 011
shore, sard to be worth 400,000 dollars,
took Come small veflels and departed. Short
ly after, captured the (hip Piggpt, tinder
Danilh colors, but said to be Entliih pro
periy, worth 500,000 dollars.
Left at the I(le of Fretice, the (hip A
meriea, of Bollou ; the Governor Bowdoin,
of ditto, captain Oliver, whole fate would
be known on the 29th December ; it was
generally believed (lie would be condemned,
the plea for such notorious proceedings, was
an error in her sea letter, it being 141 tons,
and the register for 241 tons.
Just before the Betsey failed, * reportf'cf
a war between America and France, was
received by way of India; it was expeflcd
an embargo would take placeinconfequence.
The brig Aarmony failed for Philadelphia,
the 25th December. -
NEW-THEATRF.
Mrs. Mjsrrts Night.
THIS EVENING, March 22,
Will e p relent ad, the Come yof
The School for Scandal.
Sir Peter Teazle, tnr Warren ; .sir Clivrr Sur
faie, mr Morris; Joseph Surface, mr U'ignell;
Charles f nrface, ror Ber ard Sir Benja" in Back
bit,, mr Fox ; Crahtrec, mr Harwoed ; Ctrelef«,
nr Bliffett ; Sir Harry (with a So' g) mr Darley ; 1
Rowley, rot Warrell ; Moses, mr Francis j Soake,
mr J'aylor ; Trip, mr Warrell, jun
Lady Teazle, (for that only) mrs Merry ;
i ady Smvrwell, mrs Frarci' ; Mrs Candour, cars
Oldmixon ; Maria, miss L'Kftrange.
With t)ie C onric Opera of
The Agreeable Surprize.
Sir Felix Friei dly, mr Warren ; Compter, mr
Darley ; Fug.we, mr Fox; Chicane, mr Wignell;
[ohn, mr Warrell. jun; Thomas, mr Taylor;
Farmer .Slump mr Matthew; Cudden, mr Blif
fett; Lingo, inr Bernard.
l.aura, mr» Oldmixon ; Mrs Chefbire, mrsL'Kf
range; Cowilip, (with a Song, for rhat night on
ly) mrs vlerry ; Fringe, miss L'Eftrange*
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and
cf Mrs Merry, corner ef Filbert and Elcventh
ilceets.
§s' On Friday (never performed here) a favor
| ite Tragedy, called TANCRED AND 15 ICSIS
MUNDA ; with the HiOorical Romance of
RICHARD C CE I / R DE LION—For the benefit
of Mrs. Marduau.
*s* k Mrs. Oldmixon*s Night will be on Mon
-1 .lay next.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. JI, North Water-street,
wmi on the night of the 19 h in ft ant (March)-bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom ;
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
7 -37+ 20 \ Blue ftroud single
2 378 'M \ xord .
/2379 20 J
2380 20^
2381 20 ■*
2:82 20 1-. j
J . , 1 wo cord.
2383 ioi
2384 20
2385 20 i j
r \ he oboY'e reward is offered, for the difcorery
i of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
e apprehended, and aftf«nabl« to ju*':e ;
•irther reward will be paid, for the recovery of
| wj part of the goods stolen, ©o delivery ©t the
vine to .
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Militi iy. Stores,
o arch ar. iw
To be Let s
A three story brick H- u(e,
With Stable* and a GurdeA containing nearly one
;cre of choice ground, Tver*! Sum »ur Houfen,
»uit Treci, &c. on Race, and second llreet from
chuylkill ; the whole In good condition, and the
1 "ltUatinn high, airy and excellent lor a piace of
public entertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and Ila deep,
also to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at No. 39,
Pine street.
Wm. currie.
march ai. wstf,
To he Sold at Auiflion,
On Thursday, lii Mireh, at 7 o'clock ia
the Evening, at the Merchant's Coffee-
House Second ftrcet.
ABi<l> K H UsiH, tojetl.er with the Lot
tnereto br!enf:t>j, in the »ity of Burlinj
t<>n, New-Jersey. TVe honfe has three rooms
below, and tfcree chambers in the up)ier A«ry.
the krtchrn a«!j o;ninj; is a frame building. The
Lo! has n front tif Ja feet o* and
the farae front on the rirer Delaware. The
lenjth of the L t is about tfo feet—Tbs hovfe
commands a very plrafam profpefl oftKf river,
and the Biroii]th of Bnftal, 00 the Pennfy'.vsnia
(hore. Immsdiate pcßVlEon may he had. For
further pirticulars, iiiqiiire of Mr. Jehu Sims,
n< xt door bc'ow tke City Tavern in Philadel
phia, cr the fubferiber in Bu.Huston.
Conditio!.', will beinadeknown at time offale.
* TOOTMAN is Co. A*a t f.e:r>.
For Sale, or Charter.
Tb« reroarJuMe fV.ft faij;ig
SPY,
tfigZsZtS&sZytrtt'nt !sarVili<ft patent Ccr.pen
havngbeen a Paekcr of the KB?l:ft Ealf-ladia C<v*
>any—Now £*t ia order. Siu it a
tens, a«d capable of carrjisj rfi jfina, nowlayn-f i
at Mr Raff's wharf.—Fdr rerros apply t«i
Stephen Kingston,
« 4*, Walnut Stret.
VHO MM FOR SA«I|
A of Salt, a quantity of bail Canrafi acti
Gin in pipes
j marck to f
j _ T ■ ■ —»
I Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
Extras from "An A<3 •ojsuihnrize thj Governor 1
of this Commonwealth to mcorponte acorwpa
j ny for ered'tig a perannent Eridge over the riA
| ver Scliuylkill, :t Or crar th< city of Phlladci
| pliia."
Sec. I. | '' ihcreflrt enaflrJ by the Strrjt* a-i
1 ) Houjr >f XtprrfiMativu cf Ike Ctmmon-
K ealtb •/ ftnnfylv<znij in Central AJfmb!-, met, and it
> is hereby enzaed ly the authority «/ the }ime, That
tt.icnanl Piters,- John Perot, Oodfrrr H»ga,
Marthi w M'Conßtll, a d William fchejif, or »r,y
thr*e of them, be, and an- hereby appointed 1 »m.
mifhomrs to do and perform the fevcral dutiee
herein after mentioned, th.it is to f«y :
I bey inal! and may. cn or before the firfl i-Uy
of June rest procure on.- or mere books, as they
(hall thinh n».el»jry, and thereii- enter a, follows,
▼iz.
" We, whose names are hereunto fublcribed, do
promise to pay to the Prefidcnt, DirrSors at d
Company, for ereAing a bridge over the river
Schuylkill, at or near he city of Phila lelpliia, tha
sum of one ollar_ at the time of ftiblcribing aui
ons dollar in three mouth thereafter ; l ;r e» ry
{hare of. flock the company te. ojowbt* to
Our nfper ive names, and the rcfiduc ther if at h«
rate of ten dollars for eUcb (hare. Ip such nt inner
a;id proportion*, aixt-at such timei as. Slat I e de
termined by tk I'rTt'lent and DitecKrs chof.uin
piirfiiar.ee cf at. a & of .(Tembly, n>< itlcj,
An 4.8 to authorize th Governor of this tom
" monwenlth to incorporjt a company forernit
" it'g hri.'gt ov r the river Schiv. "till,
" at or " f ar the city of .Philadelphia"—ai d (half
thereupon proceed to receive ftiSfcripti-n. or the
flock of the said company, which i, hereby declar
ed and int nded :o b« *he lum of one liundr; ! a .d
fifty thoufinJ dollars, divided into fifteen thonf..ni
fllare«, at ten I'allar. o.ich at fuc. : i in 1 p e-
as they fball thi k prop, r, of whi. h ti ;i- no
tice fiiall be given in thfte or mere i- wfpapcr*
(one of which fhjll bt i i tb*
prirted in th- city of Mlad.';-hia, lor i-'al
twenty days b. fore the finl d y t.f meeting An I
if before .the said tloik he o mpie ,d, they iiull
*dj»srn for more than three day», :.<>tjcv of lie
time and place when and where the Commifli nim
will next rece ire fubfcrijplions. fhillb, given in at
leaf).one rewfpaper, printed in the fiid city ; ani
it (hall be lawfu :or any p rfon, body politic, or
corporate to fuSfcribe for as many jharc% not ex
ceeding one hun red in one day, a. he, she o- they
shall choose ; pri vided always Chat every person
offering to fublcrit,e asafnrefaid, in hit own namc 9
or any other ram*, {ball previoufiy pay totheat
j tending enmitiifflon.t om dollar, for ev.ry Q «r*
j to be fu: scribed, < ut o' whif h shall he defrayed the
1 expences att'.n. iw taking iuch fubfetit-tions and
other incidents! charg-j, and the remainder fhatl
be paid over t,i the treafivrer of. tl,e
as soon as the fame sb .11 be organized and the offi
cers chofun, as is' herein after mentioned ; but th*
, said commiflioneri fh.dl rcfrrvr fr. e thr.ufanS
fkares, which (hall be appropriated by the Prcfi er,!
and Direanrs and used if t!.e fame lie found f»-
quifite, for the herein after mentioned, of
resting therein the monies to be appli.d lor a fink.
ingfund, to freethe bridge.and tOc?\aMr the Prefi
denr, Directors and company, to purch ;e there*
; with if the fame can be done, a fcitc or pi.ee for
•refiing a bridge
Such 1 f the said reserved share« as are not used
fcr these purj ofrs, to be open lor further ful fcr.r.
tic n, or sale. a« the Prefid»n at.«i t))reOtors ihall,
according to circumliai.cei, ileem pr .per.
Srtfl. a And be it further enabled by th*
authority afirefaid, " hit w' en ne hu,,drcd
perfons,oi n<(,rr, (hill hive fubieribed five titou
fand (harts in the said ftotk. the fajd CorMmif
fiouers, refpetflively, shall certify en ler t! eir
hands and seals. the names of the subs r'ben,
and tne number cf (hares ftibfcribed hy» «r 3 p~
portioned to ea»h lubfcrih.r, to the Governor of
this Coram- t,w' .iltit, an thereupon it stalls.nd
may be lawful for the f»ovtri»or, by letters pa.
lent, uno«r his hand and f«al of the ftafe, ta cre
ate an ereil the fut.fcri! »r« ; and if the said
ftibfcriptien be not f.M at ne time, these a,fo,
who fbali afterwards fukfci fce to the num. er a-
tine body politic and corporate, in
deed and in law, by the name, (tile and title of
11 1 he President, and Company, f(.Hr
C'eflinf: a permanent bridge ever rirer
Schuylkill, at or near rhe «iiy of PhiUoe phu
anil by the faiil name the f. id fubfcrihert fnall
' ave perpiftnal fnccefl.on ; and all p-ivilej;e»
anjl fratichifjs inciityit to a eorpmation; anj
thai! be capable of tak ug ant' h Idit.g their
i»id capital flock, a: d the iiv reafe and profit*
fhertof; and ( f i nlarging he fame ft . 111
t« time, by new fubfcrititi it's, in such mai ner
antl iiorni as they (hall think proper, if f .ch en
largenfrt (hah be found n-crffiry.to iu fil the
intent < f this afl ; and of uking. purch.fing
and holdinti to ihem and tbt >r fu vefTirs in fee
simple, rt ir any <;fs eita e. all such finds, ten
ements hereditament* and ellate, real and per
feail, as (hall he neceflji'y an convenient t*
them, in the proferution of their works, and the
fame tof II and dispose of it their pleasure ; and
f fuitig indlienig sued, and of doii g all jinl
every «>ihet mattfr irj thing, which a corpora
tion or body politic (flay lawfui'ydo. •
The fubfctibera Ci mmiffiotie s appointed ill
the ats\ beftit'C'mentioned foi the purposes there
in expr flVd, lierebyg ve notice agreeably
to, that licv ki are provitled, as the law direflf,
i and thai we w ill ptoi eed to receive fuhfci iptiona
for the Company Stock on the <)th day of A
pril next, at the City Hall, iti the city of Phi
ladelphia. The fubfiri|»tion» will be received
from ten o'clack in the morning of the fa s! day,
till two o'clock, P. M. and the books will con
tinue open during thofc haurs of fuccerditig
days, at the fame until one hundred pet
fons, or more, fl all have fuhfcr.bed five thonfand
(hares n the said, .fto< k, as in and by the said aift
11 and r, q ired.
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEROT,
GODFKY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, \ytbMarch, 1798. jawtf
: | - , *
. TO RENT,
A good three story Houfc,
TWO room* «n each floor, r ifh >
Kitchen—in Front, near Se»th flrret.~—enqnir*
of the Printef. march 3—jawjt*
OVAL BOTTLES.
Qtfart and half gallon in cr?te« —aod a qusnstj
tv c-f Claret Bottles of a
No. 1.,, Cbitrth Alley. JChN DORIEY-
u ' 3>awiw>fiCough) Catarrhs, Ajihmks, Zz*-'■
Wal'h's Antipertufiis,
IS a C r c and o-rrain cure for that deftruflive dif
'rdvi the Hooping Cough. The eclebxity
which this medicine ha* acquired in England, ren
ders the publication of cases of cure unnecessary
t^er-—bnt as the Antipertuffis hat been but re
cently ir.tre.uced into thi» country, it may not be
mils to puhlilh the following caCis, fcle&ed from
- much greater uenibcr, at proofs of its efficacy.
" SunJnier-Hill, Stourbridge, NaT. xB, '9l.
" Sir,
u Flrafe to feed by the coach, a Urge bottle of
your Antipertuflis. I hive giren it to the poor of
this neighborhood, by which many have been cur
ed of that dreadful disorder the Chincough, and
is no instance has it failed in giving immediate re
lief.
" 1 am, Sir, y*«r very obedient Servant,
GEORGE B&ISCOE."
* Bath, June a, 179 >,
'« Sir,
" The cause of my troubling you with this is,
that I thought it t duty which I owed to yourfelf
aadto society, that 1 Ihould mention the salutary
effe&s that your excellent medicine, called Anti
pcrtnfiii, had upon my eldest son ; who was, about
two mouths ago, affiled with the Hooping Cough,
in a mod dseedfrfl degree. My child was attend
ed by some of the molt eminent ef the faculty here,
who, lor three days, thought him dying ; and was
given ever. At this time a friend of mine men
tioned the wonderful cures that had bceu effected
by your medicine ; and though we had no expec
tation that my child could poflibly recover, yet I
rcl'olved to try it. 1 did ; and at this time, 1 have
the happiness to fay, that he is quite well, not th«
haft iymptom of his complaint remaining.
" Your's, tc.
" JOSIAH ELLIS TOMKINJ."
(London, to wit.)
James Eardley, of No. 4, Poland-street, in the
parilh of St. [ames, came before me this day, and
voluntarily maketh oath, and faith, that his child,
a boy about two years old, was effe&nally cured
of the Hooping Coagh (which he was aSiiled
with In a moll violent degree for some menths,
ud for which he ceuld get no relief) by Mr.
Walfh's AoriptrtufEs,' And this deponent further
faith, that at the time the child firft toek thn me
dicine, it was netexpc&edhe coald live ; and that
the firft <fofe, almost immediately, removed some
of the most violent symptoms ; his appetite,
ftrccgth, and spirits mended every day ; and this
deponent further faith, that three or four bottles
made a perfect cure ; and that the child is new in
as geod a state of health as it w«. before.
JAMES EARDLEY.
Sworn before me, thisaill day of March, 1795.
Tick as Skinner, Mayar.
SJ" It is Sold, by appointment of Mr. Walsh,
by SHAW Us Co. No. 139, Chefiiut street, Phi
ladelphia, in bottles at I £ dollars each—Where mly
may be had tt ttljh'l Lozenget of CoUifoot, forrecert
cou EjJ'enee oj Mt*fi*rd t for rheuipa
tifnu, gout, lumbago, palsy, numbness, fprain>,
and bruiJet in boxes and bottles at I dollar each—
Srvtnifrn Qintmtnt, an infallible cure for the Itck at
»»« ufiug—Dr. Sultb's celebrated Sfctifc for tho
PtHcrenl I'./: if, at I and 1 dollars the bottle—
alfo, his Hdlorative for dtkilitalcd tonjlituiiors. at J
do.lars—Nortons Antifcubortic Draft—Balfaf* of Ho*
ncy, for coughs, colds, 3cc —third't Caiigt Eross —
and GwlataTj Lotion, for the face and fltin, &c. &c.
re,arch t. thsat sat
City Cominiffioner'i Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THt INFORMATION Of THE CITIZtNJ.
r "l "'M-F. following arrangement is made by the
-1- said coinmiflioners, for cleansing the
ftretfs, See
Diftrift No-1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the fouih fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the i'uperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south firle of Ckefmit fixreet, to Vie under th*
fu,)crinterid*jice of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide «f Spruce street, to be under the
i'uperintendapce of Jol'eph Claypenle.
4. From th* north lide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
parinttndance of Hugh Roberts.
gT When pumps are out of order south of
ftreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of Soath and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Qeb-
Jer, in Fourth, near Chcfnut street ; and north of
High flreet, to Dixty and Dehaven, in SafTafras
ftreet. between Sixth and
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Vibfcriber, in infol
»«m debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the ftatc of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Fleai, in and
fcr the laid couaty, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl his liberation, puriuan: to aa aft of the
Legislature of (his ftate,entitled "an a& for
the relief of insolvent debtor*," pafied the a6th
day of Jai uary 179S —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of March
next for the purpose afurefaid ; to meet at the
Court Houfc in the Middle Precini}, at eleven
•'dock, in theforenoon of the laid day, ef which
his creditors are requcfttd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Jeh. 14 —liwjw
N O *T I C E.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Satt
ly, of Oxted Cottage, in the Caunty of
Sarrey, in Great-Britain, Spinster, or her afligns,
for two tbocfand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of
the United States, was loft in the ship Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
is the year 1796. The fubferiher, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treafurv of
the United States, los a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
F.l- 11. law6w.
French Circulating Library.
JOEEPHE.G.M De La GRANGE, .
No. lie Walnnt-ftreet,
INFORMS tholfe who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfcA in the French Lan
•jjusge, that he has just opened his I iikakt, con
sisting of upwards of 1500 volume*, the bsft cal
culated to afford cither ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The coeditions, together with a catalogue
•f the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in taw*.
it. 1. Alt translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, executeo with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoisi »if ■ V
" FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's JBtok Store,
No. sa, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT ef the Committee of the Houfc of
Rcprefentativef of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against * ILH \M ELOUN T, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
demeaners, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houftof Rcprefentativcs, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the rrcefs of Congress, and
infttuSiJig
" means, todifcevei the whole aature and extrnt
*' of whereof the laid William Blount
" stands irupcache J, and who are the parties and
•' affociatcstherek."
Printed by oriir of tie Heuji of Rtprrfer.tctiva
Uecsmber le. j
PROPOSALS,
»T TUI
Injur anct Company of North America.
For Insurance againtt Firx, cm Dwtlling-
Houfcs", Ware-Houses and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant Irom
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firil
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifqaes a larger premium will be required, which
will vaiy according to circumstances, feldora ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
flanct s, whe-re the property insured i« not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous bukdings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftancts.
Houfc* and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly »f ft one er brick, well
cunftruAed, so as to br guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh- 1
berhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and maybe infnredte their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not 01 an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or pacbag«s, de
pefitod in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; hut if more than thisfum
is required to be infuied iu one tenement, an addi
tienal prem<ain will be required, in proportion to
circumltaaces.
11. lnfurancee will also be mada on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premium* proportioned
to the risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads ar clafics, so to describe
each with die neceflary accuracy. Each cafe mull
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
stances attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the dcfcription accompa
nying the application.
Buildings partly conftrulted of brick'or ft ore,
are preferafle to those wholly woodep. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how th«y are oc
cupied, hcW they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpedt to goods,
their'tendency, whether fram their nature, or
from the manner in which they are txpofed, either
to'commence or to ihcreafe an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhafty removal, or to be sto
len in time of tonfufion and harry, are all cir
cumflances of weight ; and the premiums mud be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
stood ty the parties . j
ill. The Insurance is not binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
j signed or ne>t.
sd. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion ef the term of the policy, without farther ex
penses than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were understood by the lnfurers at the time
the former mfurance wat made j bnt the payment
of the premium is eflential to such renewal; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration ef the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he it not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed en the former poliey but by competing the
commencemenyif the renewal frem the expiration
of the former'mfurance. The fubjeA of insur
ance may ncverthelcfs be' open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mall be made known at the time of
application, othtrwil'e the policy made on fueh ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on conftgnment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy; but
they are not to be considered as insured etherwife.
sth. This company will net be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafioncd by any for
eign invafian, or by any military or usurped force,
or by reafan of any civil commotion ; or occafion
cd by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the Building, or atnongft the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miffury Notes, are not included in any insurance j
nor arc paintings, Tiedah, jewels, gems, antique
curiolitie-, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a shorter
term than ore year, nir for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years shall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: third of a years premium shall
he abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LolTes fuflained by fire en preperty infur;d,
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without dedudlion.
A defer iption of the property to be infurod will
be expr&ed with each application, to be made by
a raafter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
furarce, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpe<a to Houses and it her Buildings,
xft. The lite and position ; describing the
street or road on or near -which the building
stands ; it« contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguifhmentof fire
in cafe of accident j and particularly whether
any and what firo companies are established, and
engines provided,in the place or neighboni hood.
id The materials of which it is built, whs
ther of brick, ftoneor wcod, and what part of
each, as well as to theouffide wall* as infideor
partition walls, and their refpetflive height and
thickness ; the style of the raof and of what
materials ; how l'ecured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind as access to tha top of th.
house and to the thimnies 1 whether any and
what eleflric rods ; the number and kind ot
fire places ; and the kind as deposit for ashes.
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in wha!
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe ot
injury j the age and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose , alia an estimate of the value of the btiule
er building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpeA to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diltance, how built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufadlary it car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, er usually depo
lited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of 4vhat kind.
Refpeflinggoods in Houfts, Warehouses, 81c.
1. A geneial dcfcription of the building in
which they are kept will beexpedled, similar is
all refpc<sts,as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance an the buildings thetn
felves.
i. A dcfcription of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in th* usual form for retailing. And
if th* goods vary materially in kind, a general
estimate of the raise »f each kind prepofed to
iafiired ; but In th: last puticular minute- i
ness of description is nut expelled. '
3. Article* of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine) rohn, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp,flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Gltls, china wire or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glafles, jtwelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or 'vope than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moiflures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on jn alarm of fire.
Letters pell paid, dire&ed to the Secretary of
the Board of Dire&ors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only* it wilt
be aufwered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZEK HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Office of the Insurance Company of Nort ! « )
America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798- j
Feb. 14.
Houie and Lots, in Bordentown.
'"T'O BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
J- with the Lot on which i.< is eretfled, fituat
rd about the middle of thebeautifal and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
containe one acre, aud is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back llrcet. Also, a large Lot, eon
taimng nearly fojir acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of th*
purchase money will he required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the.remainder, i'uch credit
w-II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free ef all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reflding in Bordentown, near
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Muiberry-ftreet.
December 1 %. 3awtf
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States *re hereby
informed, that the manufatfture of Window
Glass is new commenced at tht Glass House in
Boston.
I It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boft«n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to he in every ref
peA greatly superior to any ever imparted from
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conllantly had by applying to CDa nit Ip.
Kupftr, at theGlafa House.
Orders from the distant States to be add/efTed to
Mr. Samuel Gere, Court-ftraet, Boftnn.
Two or three goo J Glass maker* art want
ed at the above works; such as can produce ri<
commendations for goad behavior, maybefureof
employ, by application to Mr. George L, Limit, at
the works. Men withovt families m ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of raaking Crown Window Glafi, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boflon, January 16 tiaw6w
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS by GEORGE FORMAN,
TOR PRINTING MY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which ha* bean ex
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY agaiaft
all the Religions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, lllutninati v and Reading Societies. Col
lected from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Prtfef[er of Natural PhiUfopty, ami Seereiary to tie
Royal Soeiety rf Edinburgh.
Nam tua ret agitur paries turn proximut ardet.
>f/" I'HIS work will be put to press as soon as
403 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is .completed.—lt (hall he print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fn
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat o&avo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure r 1 fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to bookseller*.
*«* The above woik comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation tr. the literary world—the fz6U therein
recorded are well fu'eftautiated, and thereafoning
and argumen » thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well as to in
ftrotS. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the (touted heart.—Th*
danger to Ke appr-hended from secret focieti«s is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation from the straight path of religion and
of virtue, ineonteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertabl* f.&s.
tjf Subferiptiom taken in by G. Forman, AT*. 46,
Willian-Jlrcct, oppofiie the Pojl-Ojjiee, and by there/pee*
ti-ve book/tellers in New-York and Philadelphia.
February »8.
New-York, fanttaty »4, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
Br Madams Roland ;
Wife of the Minifterefthe Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions m a few month*,) will be coraprifed in a
vols, otSlave, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fihe paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and .so cent* per vol
ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printer*, Bookfeliers, and others, who
acquire Suhfcriptions, the ufuat allowance will
be made.
£jT Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
Koom, Na. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-ftreet —and at the different
Bookftorcs in New-York- Also, by William
Young, earner cf Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette as the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
1 are obtained, the work will be put to pref*, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. la. eodim
For Sale,
A gooA situation for a Country Siat,
FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight 01' Cermantown and about fiv« miles
from the City, the whole being uuder goad fence,
and in excellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Crksson, it his office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, See. No. 54,
High-flreet.
airao. tith. tawaw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH l|
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
[N purfuaace of the A& of Congress pafied on the sixth day of Jmly one thoufaod seven hundred aitti
ni'iety-fcvcn, cKtitled " An Aft laying daties on Stamped Vellum, Parchaent and Paper", and the
Ad palled 00 the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninoty-fevea, entitled
" An A>d to pofipanefor a limited time the commencement of the datics imposed by the A<st enti
tled " An A& laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parehmeat and Paper", that from aud after tit*
CilldjyoF J«ly enfaing, the feverai Stamped Duties hereafter enamerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
I.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, apoa which (kali btf
written or printed any cr either of the inlUuratats or writings following—to wit:
DU Ctt. Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, -
Any Licence to pratftice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney,. 1 , dvocatt or Procter, in aay Court of tbe
United States, ... - . , I 0
Provided, that a Certificjte in any one of the Courts of theTJnited States
for one of the fsid Offices, (ball so far is relates to the payment of the
daty afore aid, be a fufficient i(!inilCon in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of tile said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, mider ilie seal or authority ef the United State*
(except foi lands granted tor military Cervices) -
Any exemplification er certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for laridi granted for military services) - - - g
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Boild, - - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountot anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
ther teftamentairy instrument, or for any share or part of a perfocal eflate di- k
vided by force ot any statute of diftrfbutions, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Graad Children of the perl'on deceafed,the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - i
When the>amount thereof ihall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of t
Acy Policy of Insurance or inflrvaaent in nature thereof, on any (hip, veffici of
goods in Cured from one diftrift to another in the United States, ij
From the United States to any foreign port er place, when the sum for which
luTurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
Whea the sum infared (hall exceed five hundred dollars, • j '
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifli f»r the use of the United States or fsine particular Sate, - jo
Any Hond, bill single or pcaal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other thaa any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contraf), made to or with the United State* or any state, or for their
use refpeflively, .... - .
! If above tweaty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollar*, • 10
If above one hundred dollars aad not exceeding five hundred dollars, ij
If above five hundred dtlhrs and not exceeding ose thousand dollars, 5a
Audit above one thoulatid dolbrs, .....
Provided, that ii any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeA to only two ffth parts of the duty
aforelaid—viz. - •
1 If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolls* *, t e
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoafand dollar**
If above one thousand dollars, - - - jtt
Any Netes ilTued by the hanks now efUblilhed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the Roto* of such of the said Banks
as ihall agree tc an annual composition, ot one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholder* relpeStivtly, locordiag to
the following scale. ■ - - - •
Oa all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - •
Ob all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, ji
Cn all notes above one hunJred dollars and not exceeding fivo hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all notes above fire hundred dollar*, ■ - • »
Any Protest or other Notarial atS, - - • - tj
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pcHfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rant* for Land granted by the United State* as bounty far military services
performed in the late war, - - -
Any Certificate er Debenture for drawback of Cußosna or duties, for l«£s thaa
five hundred dollars, ' - - - 1 j
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollars, - - • J
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tobe exported,
If from one diftritS to another dlftrhfl of the United States, not being in tbe
fame State, - - « 10 '
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeAs, aaade in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods tahea in virtue of any legal process by any oflcer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Infuranee Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
It above twenty dollars and sot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hatidred dollars, - .
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The daties aforef aid will be collected and received by the Supcrvifors, tnfpefior* aud other Offiocta
of Infpe&ioa, in the fcveral DiftriAs, Surveys and Divifiens of the United States, aad by such othar
perfonsas (hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrj&a (or
that purpose.
in.
i. The Supervisors of the feverai DiftriSs will, prior te the firft day of July ensuing, and a* soon t»
may be prafiicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or pareelaof Vellum, Parch*
ment or Paper, with any tf the rates of duties before enumerated, oa payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vcllura, parchment and paper i«.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob«
tained at the rates prescribed by law, ! y application to any Supervilor, Infpe&or, Officer of iufpaiioo,
or Other porton appointed foa-the dJftribatioa of Stamps, by the Supervifars of Diftri&s.
GIKJLN under my Haud, at Pbiladeiflim
1 tit day aniynr titvtmnlirned.
! OLIVER WOLObTT,
March 10. Secretary of lie. Trterfury.
NOTICE.
ALL perrons u-ho have any demands agaiuft
th« cftate of Willam Flckwtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are rcquefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, > . . . ,
No. 25, So. Third-street. 5 Adm,n 'J iT r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And t« be had at the Beok-florss of JJeflVs. Bos
son, Campbell, Youko and Okurod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
Oa the Cauies and Cure of Ramitting or Bilious
Fevers.
Tt which it SntKed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pradice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa&« and reflexions relative to
the Synchut lettroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
hsif occafinned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in feverai of the fetport
towns of th« United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
F»!ow of the Philadelphia College of Phyfcians,
and Member of the American Pkiloiophicoi So
ciety. j Feb. I—*jnisl—*jnis
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
jl valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hrufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and au half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick heufes, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Mfo, for Sate,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient fiores, wharf, &e. fituateon
Water flreet, between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatiot for a a merchant, flour fatfor, or others
who have occasion for florage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for cafli. For turthor information apply
to the print*r.
J»ly it. m&wtf
Salifl»ury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrad hi* busi
ness, offers this Estate for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and litre# Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in peifeil repair, aa are all the Water Works connefi
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Fiirnacea
were lately built for tfie purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two tbouCwd acres
of Laad, one half of which isunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Palture. Ths Cannon lately mmnfadWed ther»,
fully proves the excellency of th* metal, which ia
(uperior to any in this country and probably, eqsal
to aay in the world : for not o*>e of fixty-oine guns
lately made, although some of tbe 94 ware bored
into ga pounders have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture,aad a place of arms lying in the Hate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ing» on the Hudson's river,and having every advan>
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water ifTuing
froma large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
[ ufefijl purposes. The purchaser can beaccomtnodat
! Ed wiih all the (lock and utensils, and have poflcfliua
[ on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal. Ore, dec. See. For
terms, applv to Mr Joseph Anthony, in Philadel*
phis j David Brooks, Eiq.one of the Representatives
in Congrels for this State ; Mr, Dovid Waterman, oa
theprcmifes, or to the proprietor in Ntw-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON,
Dee. 1. ( jiwtf
NOTICE.
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft tujjre.
Such as hcvci was in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivo'ii, Red Hook Landing,,
on the Eafl Bank of Hudson's River, lla'e of Ne*A~
York, * here any article of various forts a*»d fhapca
may be executed, as well as eartbern ftrves upon a
new conftruftion, that Caves three fourths «f thefael
commonly used in cart iron stoves or opea chymnias;
they are besides very whole some and ornamental, by
applyiugt*
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful haod to attend to thebakinj aat
jilting part of thefaid ware. Generous appoint*
meats will be given. Apply or to
-DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth,Street.
Feb. Iq. eod4w
Wanted, to Hire,
/\ Large and convenient HOUSE, ia or near
£l. the rentreof tb« city—for which a geoerms
ren» will begiven; to be taken for a year, or oa
more for a longer tern. Fnqaireof thi Printer.
oa, 17. soif