#asette Jltate.o, ™ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmber 1748. J
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- T
fcribers, on Walnut ftrcct Wharf,
195 casks of nails aflorted A
lo bales ef fail tanvafs, from No. I to 8 CI
5 3 calks yeljow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each N
London particular ? Mlde ; rll Wines I',
India market )
Tenerifle do. in hogfheadi and pipei I
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles _ Sc
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimitiel, Maflineti tec. 6(
afTorted for the Weft-India market SI
4, xo, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiatcs, ink Hands and presses E
4®purcheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine I
160 bundles (heathing paper p
A IT A Z 0 N,
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin is" Griffith.
April 7 tmh&f.tf ,I 7
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN, i
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA, -
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
\TO\V lying at Jefle and R. Wain's wharf— A
ft out, strong vessel, of about 270 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT to*. KINTZING, .
No. 95, North Watei-ftree:.
Wlobave JUST RECEIVED, anj FOX SALS,
li bales Ticklcburga and Oznabrigs
a do. Patterborncs
I do. bleached Heflians
I package Oil Cloth
I rheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
a 9 anchors pearl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage H?rne(s, Whips,'
Spurs, &c.
—theV hAvi foe sale —
Claret in cases. Port Wine in pipes, Ru/Ha Soap
in rmallboXi's, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win- !
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga- 1
ny, Hessians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, See &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march »o. tuthsiw
rOR SALE.
SdrwUHavannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed tomorrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adive, Will
iam Williams, master.
faid Brigfor'fale,
i 'iit'W' And may take in immedi-
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu HoUingf'Worth W Co.
march 50. $
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
D° minick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
. Having great pattof her cargo en"
gaged.—For freight apply to
jeffc if Robert Wain.
February 26
For Sale or Charter,
MMf i GOOD HOPE
• Will carry about i»o'o barrels, Mid
it ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Mply to _
Pragers & Co.
No. 15 j, South Second-street.
Whq have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lifoon, and Teneriffe wino.
November 7. <hf
To be Let,
(Ant) poff<*flion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
41 feet fr«nt, and 40 feet deep, with Wack buildings
and (tables, at preft/r.t in the tenure of Major J«ck
iov. Enquire at 1-87 iSouth third street.
April a. 5
PROPOSAL,
For Publijbing by Subscription,
E N QJU I R Y
IN IO TEt
ORIGW OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
THE Letters to Dr. Currie, which I putjliflied
lad autumn, led me to an investigation of
'th<j origin and phflnomcn los pertil -n'i.l! dilcafes
in other countries, as well as in the United States.
In tht profccution of the fubje<st, new fa<sls and
principle* continually opened to my view, and fi
nally detorminetl me to trace back the hi«rry of
f'ich difeaks as far as the records .f hilloiy ex
tend. Fc this purpose, 1 have examined the pub
lic libraries m New-York, NLW-Havcn, Cam
bridge, and Bofldii, with a viuw to obtain all the
material fads which can illustrate the fubj»a,and
I have nearly collsfied *ll the ibaterials for the
airopofed work.
The :1s e.ll:<!ted Will enable me to demon
-ftrate tnat marry of the common ideas refpecling
peilile nial epidemics, are unfounded or extremt
ly incorrect ; and this in consequence of ir.edical
writers considering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as connected with other epide
mics or other phenomena of nature in various
pnro of the world. The fads 1 have collected
jead fp certain datuflions which are fvrprifingto
myfel'. and which will probably he new to many
Others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
and perplexing fuSjed, a. well as on natural phi
-10 The'propofcd work will make a full filed ofla
*o volume ; and execute* wed on fine paper, caa
aot be afforded at lets than two dollars, bound,
with the usual allowance to book-feller-. As th.
compilation will coll not only great labw.but con
fiderabl- expence, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fubfcribcrs. The book will be rea
dy for-fubfcriber searly iu the coming summer. and
tl e holders of proposals will be good .nough to
ret«r t them t0i10.40, IWftreet, by the firltof
>l Su'»sc*iFTioNS received by the book-fellers in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, New-London, Providence, Boston, Bal
t more and Charltfto.. •
NOAH WEBSTER, jus.
march 28.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 17, 1798-
Thomas Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR. SALS,
AtNo. y, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge, A
China ware nankeen dining Ictta, tea and cuiiec
caps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taflities
PuagcSn cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannots
China and Enjflifti umbrellas, \
Together -with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are *'
Sc.ta thread in boxes » n
6d. Sd. lod. lid. ar.d »o<3. nails ( ri
Shot—r. Crowley steel, Spanilh brown and white
lead u
Englilh scythes 41 to jo inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsof kiln dry etl Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftrect,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitablc for °J
any business.
Aihmo..yth §tf 1
Juil Landing c
From the brig Harmony from tht Ifleof France* *
And far falc By 1
Jofepb Anthony & Co. 1
»o bales Bourbon cotton «t a fupcrior quality '
150 bags do. coffee a
24 calks do. Indigo a
?pril $ diot n
JUST IVEt'EIVED, ii
FROM POlt T-A U-P HI NC E, }]
And FOR SALEi by tbe SUBSCIZI(*£J£S i
110 hhds. Coffee e
46 tierces do. c
100 barrels do. £
100 bags do. c
110 hoglhcadsof Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molasses *
4 bales of Cotton a
3 hogftieads of Cocoa (
WILLINGS FRANCIS, t
Pena-ftreet.
march 11, § j
A Nur/e Chiid Wanted.
ANY perJbti who may waWC to put a child out, (
may hear of a place, by esquiring of Conrad
Baker, near the town house, in the Northern Li
berties. 3t april 12.
PORT WINE, J
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks,
Of A SUPERIOR QJMLITY,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P. ?. Schmi it, '
master, from Oporto,
ALSO, OH HAND, '
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef 1
Queens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales <
Guns aflorted in cafetf, Cutlafles, Swords, &c. ]
For sale by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND,
Walnut street wharf. j
april ii. .
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. Ith, 1798. .
rHE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being-the Second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
tle<si twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a bocrd of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
April 7 dtE
SILVEtf. WATCHES.
Ca(h will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCH' S, by applying im
mediately at No. 15 South Fifth street, between
Market and Chtfnut streets.
April 10. > * 6t
'Notv Opening,
AtWitLiAMM'LAWsSaddleManafadorjj
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general alTortment of Horseman's
r Pistols, dire£ from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles Holsters, Half Covers, Light#
Horseman's Caps, Swordsj Cartoiuh Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Haraefs, &c.
5 april 9 dtf
' JUST RECEIVED. ~~
And for faleby W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-flreet, M. Carey 11« Higli-llreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-lireet and the
Bo&kfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.) ■
BEACON HILL,
A Local Po*m 9 historic and defonptive i
By a Lady of Bojlon.
d f ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
f Allusion to the surrounding ProfpeA—lnvocation
s to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
5. Mufe—Fi&ion discarded—Dedication to Walh
d ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of tlie
1- Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
>f —The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfanification of Fortune and Fame—
►- Waldington at Mount' Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of th« Columbian
e Camp at Cambridge<—Natural, moral, or poli
d tical History of the several States—Their com
e niandiug Officers—Siege of Boilon—lts # Suffer
ing,—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
i" British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
g Congrcfs—Declaration of Independence—Cha
-- rafter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
il prophetic ApoProphe to the Progress of Free
-- dom throughout the World.
1- march 30.
Law book Store,
No. 319, High-flreet.
y George Davis,
k TMPRESSEf> with the favors fhewn*b!m in his
i- A efforts tocdablilh a Store for the faje of Law
Books bn'.y, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
1- of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
i- that in addition to his colleftion now on hand,
J, which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
M the poflcflion of any one person for £aie in Amttri
-- ca, he expefts daily very large supplies from Lon
id don & Dublin, particularly from ths latter place,
a- having chiefly confined hisimportationi to thofe«di
id tions, as being in his opinion equally corre& with
to the London copies, and well known to be iu£nite
of ly lower charged.
G. D. limitiog himfelf, folcly to the faTe of Law
in Book*, it will appear obvious to profcflional gen
r. tlemen the prtat advantages they have in pui chafing
ii* from htm, both as to felc&iou and price, of which
the encouragement v e has received for fcverr.l years
pafl, is the bell tc.tiuion7 he can oiTcr.
■ arch 20. 3JW3W
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street.
LAW of PENNSYLVANIA. a
V
AN ACT to authorize the Governor of th'u 1
Commonwealth wiacs'porate a Company for 3
treSing a Bridge ov.r the river Delaware, "
at or near Trenton. ''
WHEREAS it haibeen rcprefsnted to v
ihc Gcoeval Aiiembly.by aDumbtrof J?
the inhabitants of this Hate, that the ere&- .
ing a good and permanent BiiJgc across the
river Delaware, at or ney Trenton,'would
greatly contribute to fac«litatc the intcr.courfe
between this state and the esftern states:
Therefore
Sc£t. I. BE it tnr.clni ly the Senate and
House of Reprefentatlves of /' e Cvmm uuutalih
of Pennsylvania, ingen 'ral aflanlly nut, and
it it hereby eno tied by the authority of the fame,
That Philip Wager, James C. l ifter, and
Charles Biddle, of the city of Pl.iiadelphia,
ar.d John Beatty, I'cter Gordpn ajid Aaron
Howell, of the tlate of Ncw-Jeifey, be and ( -
th-y are hereby appointed Commissioners, '
to do and peiform the several duties herei*
after mentioned, tliM is to fay ; they (hall
and may, on or before the firft day of June
next, procure at lead two books, and there.. ,
in enter as follows, " W- whose names are
herettnto fubferibed, do profile to pay to
the president. managers aod company, for
trefting s bridge over the river Delaware, at
or near Trenton, the fu:n of one hundred |
dollars for every Ihareiif itock in the said
company, set opposite our i-efptclive namei, |
in such manner and proportiur.s, and at such
t'mes as (hall be aetennined by the president
and managers, in purfuauce ot an a<£l of the
General Aflembly, entitled "An a<ft to au- (
thorixe the Governor of this Commonwealth
to incorporate a company for eie£ti;ig a .
bridge over the river Delaware, at or near
Trenton." Witnef3 our hands •
day of in the year ot our Lord
one thousand seven bundled and ninety
And (ball thereupon give notice
in one of the public newspapers printed at
Philadelphia, and in one of the public newfr j
papers printed in the (late ot New-Jcrfey,
for one calendar month at of the timc6 '
and places, in the city of Philadelphia and
(tate of Newjerfey, when and where the ■
fai l books (hall be opened, to receive sub- '
fcriptiona for the dock of said company ;
at which rtfpe&ive times and places someone
of the commissioners (hall attend, and (hall
permit all perfoss who shall offer to fubferibe
fit the said books, which (hall for that pur
pose be kept open at le*ft fix hours in every
juridical day, for at lsail three juridical days,
if three days (lull be ueieflary; and on the
firlt juridical day, within the hours aforefaid,
any person of the age of twenty-one years
(hall have liberty to fubferibe in his own
name, or in the name of any person or per
fon# by whom be shall be one
(hare ; on the second day for two (hares, on
the third day for one, two or three shares,
and on any succeeding day, while the books
(hall remain open, for any number of (hares
in the said (lock ; and if at the expiration of
the said three firft days, the said book open
ed at Philadelphia shall not have one thou
sand (hares therein fubferibed, or the book
opened in the (late of New-Jersey shall not
have one thousand (hares therein fubferibed,
the said commissioners refpeftively may ad
jonrn from time to time, .until tbe faii num
ber of shares (hall be fubferibed, of which ad
journment public notice (hall be given at each
place, and when the said fubferiptions in the
said books (hall amount to the refpeftive
numbers aforefa'd, the fame shall be respec
tively closed; and if before the fuid
tion shall be declared to be full, applications
(hall be made to fublcribe mere (hares than
will fill the said books or either of them, then
the said commissioners refpeiiivcly shall ap-
I portion the whole number of shares, st such
t refpeftive plact, among all'thofe who (hall
: have fubferibed or offered to fubferibe as a
forefaid on that day, at such place, bv de
ducting from the fubferibers of more shares
than one, such proportion of the shares by
them refpeftively fubferibed as will leave ev
ery person one or more shares: but if after
any of the said books (hall have been opened
1 at any of the refpeftive places aforejaid, for
the space of two calendar months, the whole
. number of shares to the said places herein
b before refpeftively allotted (hall not have been
- fubferibed, the said book or books may be
' refpetlively transferred to any other of said
" places, and,there kept open as aforefaid. pub
lic notice being given thereof at the place
. whence and whereto the said book or books
- shall be refpeftively transferred ; provided
c always that every person offering to fublcibe
f | in the said book or books in his own name
s or any otlrer name, (hall previously pay to
. the attending commissioner or commissioners
ten do lars for every fti re to be fubferibed,
_ out cf which (hall be defrayed the expences
attending taking of facb fubferiptions ani3
other incidental charges, and the remainder
(ha 1 be paid over to the trenfurer of the
corporation, as soon as the fame (hall be or
iS gnnized and the officers chosen, as is herein
" after mentioned,
n
j' Seft. 2. /nd be it further enaSed by the
authority aforefaid, That when twenty-five
i- persons or more shall have fubferibed eight
i- hundred (hares in the said (lock, the said
=• comraiffioners refpeftively may. and when
the whole number of (hares (hall be fub'cri
bed, shall certify, undt- their hands and
seals, the names of the fubfcribcrs, and the
iv number of shares fubferibed by or apportion
ed to each fubferiber, to the Governor of
this tommonwealth, who thereupon lhall,
rs by letters patent, under his hand and the
fealofthe state, create and ereftthe fub'cri
b re (and if the said fubfcrlption be not full
at the time, then alfa thofs whd (hall after
wards fubferibe to the numbers aforefaid) in
to one body p-lit ic and corporate, in deed
and in law, by the name, style and title of
" The President, Managers and Company
for creftipg a bridge over the river Dela
ware, at or near Trenton, ' and by the said
name the said fubferibe* t (hall have perpetual
succession, and alt privileges and franchifes
incident to a corporation, and (hall be capa
ble of taking and holdiag their said capital
itock, and the increase and profits thereof,
and of enlarging the fame, from time t®
time, by new fubferiptions, in such manner
and form as they (hall think proper, it such
enlargement shall be found neccfLry to fulfil
tbe intent of this aft ; and of purcbaaug, ta
king and holding to them and their fuccef
fora and in fee simple or for any less
eilate, all such lands, tenements, heredita
ments. estate real and persona , as (hall be
necessary and convenient to them ia the pro
fccution of their works, and the fame to fell
and dispose of at their pleasure; and ot filing
and being fucd, and of doing all and every
other matter and thing which a corporation
or bjdy politic may lawfully do
Seft. 3. And be it further cnactid by the
authority aforefaid, That the fix pti foils firft
named ' n the said letters patent (hall, as soon
as conveniently may be after fealiag the fame,
give notice in one of the public newspapers
in Philadelphia, and ose of the public news
papers in New Jersey, of a time and place
by them to be appointed, iiot lefs,than thir
ty days from the time of issuing the si ft no.
tice. at which time and place the said fub
feribers shall proceed to- orgaoize the said
corporation, and (hall choose, by a majority
cf the votes of the fubferibers by ballot, to
be delivered in perfor.orb, prpxy, duly au
thorized, one President, fix Managers, one
Tr afurer, and such other officers as they
fliall think necessary to conduft the bufinels
of the said company, for one year, and un
til other officers (hall be chosen, and may
make such bye-lawi, rules, orders and regu
lations, not ipconfillent with the laws of this
commonwealth, as (hall be necefTary for the
well ordering the affairs of said company ;
provided always, that no person shall have
more than twenty votes at any eleftion, or in
determining any question arising at such
meetings, whatever number of fhareß he may
be entitled to, and that each person shall be
entitled to one vote for every share by him
held under the said nnmber.
Seft. 4. And be it further enaßed by the
authority aforefaid, That the said stockhold
ers (hall meet 00 the firft Monday in May, in
every succeeding year, as (hall be fixed by
the rules and orders of the said company, to
be male as aforefaid, for the purpote of
choosing such officers as aforefaid for the en
fuiag year.
Seft. 5. And be it further enaßed by the
authority aforefaid, liiat the Prelident and
Managers firft to be chnfen as aforefaid, (hall
procure certificates, to be written or printed,
for all the (hares of the ftcck of the f lid
Company, and (hall deliver one such certifi
cate, finned by the President and cp'ppter
figned bv the Treasurer, and sealed with the
seal of the Corporation, to each person for
every (hare by him fublcribed and held,
payieg to the Trcaflirer, in part o* the
sum due thereon, the sum of twenty d liars
for each share, which certificate (hall be trans
ferable at bis pleasure in person cr by his
attorney, in presence of the President or
Treasurer, fu'ojedt however to the payments,
due and that may grow due thereon, and
the assignee holding any certificate, having
firft ciufed the assignment to be entered ir> a
book of the Company, to be kept for the
purpose, shall be a member of the Cotporati.
on ; and for every certificate by him held
(hall be entitled to one (hare of the capital
(lock, and of all the tftaus and emoluments
of the Company, and to vote as aforefaid at
the meetings therepf,
Seft. 6. And be it further enabled by tht
and Managers, at such times anv places, anc
convened in such mamier as fha.'l. be
agreed on for tranfacling their business ai
such meetings, five members and (hall be *
quorum,'who, in the of the Presi
dent, may choose a chairman, and (hall keej
minu es of all their iranfaftions, fairly enter
ed in a book, and a quorum being met
they shall have full power arid authority tt
agree with and appoint such engineers, fu
perintendants, ariifls and other officers a
they (hall think ntcefiary to carry on th<
aid bridge, and to fix their falaiies and othei
wages, to afqertain the time, manner an(
proportions in which the ltockholders (lial
pay the money due on their refpeftive (hares
in order to carry on their woik ; to drav
' orders on the Treasurer for all monies, t<
pay the salaries cf perlons by tliem employed
' and for the materials labour done am
j provided, which orders shall be signed by thi
I'refident, or in his absence by a majority o
a quorum ; and countersigned by their clerk
and to do and tranfaft all other such afts
matters and things as by the bye-laws order
' and regulations of the Company (hall be com
mited to them.
■ seft. 7. And Uit further enaSel ly th
: authority aforefaid, i hat if any ftockholde
: after thirty days notice ia some one of th
I public newspapers printed at Pit ladelphi
1 I and New-Jcrfey refpeftively, of the tim
- and place appointed for the payment of'au
1 proportion or dividend cf the fitd capita
: (lock, fliall negleft to pay such proportio
at the time appointed, for the fp<ice of sot
sty days after the time so ap ointed, ever
, such stockholder or his assignee (hall, in ad
; dition to the dividend so cal ed for, pay al
- ter the rate of five per centum per mont
,1 for every delay of fueli payment, ar.d if th
\} r OLUME XIII.
fame and the additional penalties (hall remain
unpaid for such lpace of time that the accu-
penalt es (hall become equal to tlie
fui 'b before paid on account of such (hares,
the fame shall be forfeited ;o the said Com
pany, and may and ftiali be fold by them
to ar.y other pcjfon or perfoni'wil ing to
puichafe, for such price as can be obtain* J
therefor.
Seft. 8. And le is further enafltd ly the
nut bothy aforefaid, That it shall and may be
lawful to and for the Prifident and Managers
aforefaid, their fupei intendauts, engineer!
and arzilte of every kind, to enter into and
upon all the lands, tenements and inclofures
near to the place where the said bridge is to
be built, and to examine the ground, for
the purpose of obtaining gravel or sand r,e»
ctSary for building the said bridge ; and
that it shall and may be lawful for the said
Managers, Overseers, Superintendants, or
any other persons employed in building the
feid biidge, to enter with waggons, carts,
fl.'ds cr fleinhs, buriheor draught,
of any kind whatsoever, firft giving notice
to the owners, doing as little damage as
poflible, and lepaiiing any breaches of lei!c:»
they may hive occasion to make, u\! firft <
making amends for any damages that may b>4
done, which damages (hail be afceftaiued by
the parties if tluy can agree, or if they
not agree, the:* by appraisement to be made
as hereinafter direfttd, upon oath or affirma
tion, by three indifferent freeholder* of the
neighbourhoed, or any two of thesr l , to be
mutually chosen, or if the Qwucn of Ma,
najjers, Superintendants Engineers, or Av.
tilts, upon (lye not'ce, lliall neglr.ft or refufa
to join in the choice, then the said freehol.
Dei«, to be appointed by any Justice of '.he
County, not interested on either fide ; and
the said Managers or other persons by thern
employed as afoefaid, after tender of ,th»
appraised vdue t* the owner, may eiin-r and
dig, take and carry away, any {tone, grav 1,
sand or earth, moil conveniently fitunted for
making and repairing the said bridge,
Seft. 9. And le it further enacted ly tie
authority aforefaid, That the President and
Managers of the said Cempany shall keep
fair and just accounts of all monies received
by them from the said Commifiioners, and
from the fubferibers to the said undertaking,
and of all penalties for delay in the payment
thereof, and of the amount of the profits or
shares chat may be forfeited as aforefaid, and
of all voluntary contiotribuns, and nlfo'cf
all monies by them expended in the profecu->
tion of the said work, and (hall, at lead
once in every year, submit fnch accounts to
a general meeting of the (lockholders, until
the'jfaid bridge be compleated, and until all
the costs, charges and txpencei for etlefting
tha fame, (hall be fully paid and discharged ;
and the aggregate amount of all such expen
ces (hall be liquidated and ascertained ; and
if upon such liquidation, or whenever the
whole capital (lock of tfce Company shall be
nearly expended, it (hall be si und tha: the
said capital flock is pot fuffieicnt to com.
ple t the /aid bridge, according to the true
intent and meaning of this aft, i shall and
| maybe lawful for the said President, Mana.
I gers and Com. any, at a dated < r special
I meeting, to be convened according to the
provisions of this aft, or tilth- own bye laws,
to increase the number of fhare6, to such ex
tent as (hall he deemed fufiicient to accom.
plllh tfee work, and to demand and receive
the monies fnbfcribed for such ftsaret, in like
manner and under the like penalties as are
herein before provided for the criminal sub
scription.
•Seft. 10. le it furthlr cnaßed ly tha
authority aforefaid, That when a good and
complete Bridge is erefted ov r the fid river
. Delawars at the place a orefaid, the proper
ty of the said Bridge shall be veiled in the
said Company aforefaid, their fucctfTors acid
afligns forever ; and the said company, their
fucccfforn and affigne, may dermnd and re
ceive toll from travellers and others, agreea
-1 bly to the following rates, viz. for every
coach, landau, cliaiot, phseton, or other
: pleasurable carriage, with four wheels, drawn
by four hoi'fes, the sum of seventy five cents;
■ and for the fame carriages with tiyo horses,
> the fnm of fifty cents; for every loaded
' wa gg on w ' t ' l f° ur horses, the sum of lixty
-1 seven cents ; and for every loaded waggon
> with two horses the sum of fifty cents; for
every empty waggon with four bores the
' sum of fifty cents, and for the fame with two
: horses the sum of thirty eight cents ; for
every chaise, ridisg chair, fulkty, cait, or
1 other two wheel carriage, or a flcigh or fled
1 with two horses, the sim of thirty eight
, cents, and for the fame with one horse twen.
t tv five cents ; for a Gngle b»rfe aud rider
> the sum of twelve and an half cents 1 for e
very led horse or mule the sum" of twelve
1 cents j„f"r every foot pafTenger the sum of
: fix cents; for every heid of horned cattle
f the sum of fix cents ; for every fluep and
1 swine the sum cf one cent s Pro.'id-d al
, ways, that the said Bridge shall in 110 «i!«
s injure, Hop or interrupt the nsvigacion of the
- said river, or prevent boats frona cr.Jling or
person* from fording, the said r!ver.
t Seft. 11. And le it furtler entitled ly tit
r authority tjorefuid. That in fixing the toll
- of ail carnage* to be drawn wholly bv oxcro
a or partly by horses, and partly by oxen, two
" oxen shall be eHi mated equal to one horse.
1 Sefl. 11. yfad le it further enafiedly tit
I authority aforefaid, That if any person or per,
n sons lliall cut ordellroy any piece or piece*
- of timber, or ?.ny plank or planks belongir-r
y to or apart»of the said Bridge or breaker',
or fiiall remove any piece or pieces of tim
ber, or plank or planks, fmm off, or ?ny
li. (lone or ttoncs or ether material, b 'lonpii jr
e tV :iie (aid bridge or breakers, 01 otltcnvii#t l:t~t*vi!y damage th~ fame, he, (he
t yto < ttc ding <ha t forfeit and pay, for
e-.eiy frclr offr.xe, over and abeve the da
fuTi of ti irty t* o dollars, to be re«"*ered
in the fame tranner e» debm under twenty
pounds are recovered, with colli of suit-
Srd 13. slml be it further tnaßedby tht
rvthority tifdrelvid, That if the said Compa
ny, theirfuccrfforsard afiigus, and whoever
flrd! own r.r poffcf th» faidt-ridge,ftiallcolleA
or demand >l7 greater rates or prices tor the
pifitng o®er the said br djje than what is
herein before prefcribedand fpecified, or fha 1
triages done to 'hefaidbridge or breakers, the
tiegleft to keep the said bridge in good re
pair, he the or they so offending (hail, for
every such offence, forfeit and pay the sum
of thirty dollars, one moiety thereof for the
u'e of the poo»- at Trenton, in the State of
New Jerky, ard of the towpfhip • f Fa Is,
hi the county of Bucks and State of Pet n
fylvania, equally to be divided, and the ei
ther moiety for the use of the pevfon who,
may fne for the fame ; Provided al 1 ays that
no tuit or j't on ftialf be brought utdefs witn
in thirty days after such offtnee (hall be com
mitted.
Sf ft. 14. \ndbiit further enaSedby the nu
thnr ty uforrj't i That the said President,
Managers <md Company, (hall a!fo keep a
jnlt and true aecnunt of all -aid every the mo
nies received bv their n fut&ivc coleitors of
tails, fn. eroding the faia bridge, and (ba.U
make and deel re a'dividend of the profits and
income thereof among all the fubferibere. to
the fid company's stick, deducing firft
therefrom all con'injent colh and charges,
Snd furh propottion of the said in.ome as
may be dec med veceffa y, for a growing
fund, to provide a"ain(l the decay and for
the rebuilding and repairing the said Bridge,
a»id (halt, on every firft Monday in April
and Oflober of every year, the di
v dend to be made of the faiil clear profits
fher.-of Jmoiigft the stockholders, and of the
time pfare where af-tl when the fame (hair be
raid, and (hall caulethe fame to be paid ac
cordingly.
Seft 15 ''nd 'e it farther miffed by the
bn'borily cforeftid, That the faiJPrefiient and
Managers (h-11, at the end of every third
year from the date of t'ne incorporation un
til two yrara next after the said Bridge fha'l
be -om IratcJ, lay befo r e the Grneial Af
'Jembly cf this Commtviweslth, an tibftrift
Xi( their Ttremm s, (hewing the v. hole of the
or'td stock expenJed in the prolecutiua of
tlufiid work, an:' of tlte income and profits
»vifmg from t'te fa id toH for and during the
(aid n fpe&iv; periods, toirether with an «x
---a't Sccourt of costs ard charges ol keeping
lhc said bridge in repair, ar.d all other con
tin(i«?lt cells and charges, to the end that
the r'ear annual ircome and profits thereof,
r-ay be ascertained and known ; and if at
the end rf tw > years after the said bridge
(hall be compieated, itfhall appear, from the
average profits of the fai 1 two years, tha
the fail clear income and profits thereof will
net bear a divid-nd cf lix per centum per
annum on the whole capital stock of the
Co-rrpary so expended, then it
be lawful for the f id President, Managers
and company to ircreafe the tolls herein al
lowed, so much as upon each and every al
lo\varce thereof a 9 will nvife the dividends to
fix per centtun per annum , and at the end
of every 'en years a'ft-r the f■ id bridge (hall
be compieated, they (ball render the Gene
ral Assembly a like abftrail of the : r accounts
or three preceding years ; and if at the
end of any such Decennial period, it (bail
appear from such abftraft, th?t the e'ear
profits and income of the said Company will
bear a dividend of rvore than fifteen per cen
tum per annum, then the said tolls Ilia 1 be
so reduced ni will reduce the said .dividend
to fifteen per centum per annum.
Sfft. 16. eind be it further enafod by the
Authority vfrefiid, That nothing in this
aft (hall be deemed, taken or construed, to
authorise or cmower the Governor to in
< orporate or empotvrr any persons fubferib
ing as auirefaid, or (lis'l g ve .in) power or
authority to such {ubfcriber3 to do any aft,
matter or thing h»reii mentioned, until such
time as the Lepitlature of the State of Newj
Jersey, by hi-.v v»it the, like power and
authority in fuc!l fubferibers to crest the
fid bridge and extend the fame from the
shore 011 the weft fide of the /aid liver, at or
near Trenton, across the fame to its oppefite
(bore, with >s full and ample powers, privi
!?gcs, fran.chifes and emohimerts, as to the
fubferibers are herein given ; and the said
fubferibers having such authority, (hall be
incorporated as aforefaid, a?d (hall proceed
in the said woik with all convenient speed ;
find if the said company shall not proceed to
carry on the (aid work, «»ithin the space of
three years after they (hall have been ii.ccr.
porated, or (hall not within the fpsce of fe
vrn years from the pjffing of this aT corn
pleat the said bridge, it (hall may be law
f'ul for the 1 cgiQature of this Commonwealth
to resume all and singular the rights, liber
tic-, ar.d privileges hereby granted to the said
•Company
GEORGE LATIMER,
Speaker of the Hovfe rf Reprefeutativet.
ROBERT HARE.
Speaker of tht Senate.
Approved, 1 *
ftpril 4th, 1795. J
THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governor of the Commonusealtb rf Pennsylvania.
This Day will be Landed,
From the hrig Or'ando, lyint; at Chtfout Crect
wharf, and for fate ! * the 11 ajcr on board,
200 barrel# Beef
too io. N. F- Rsm 01 n superior quality
iz hoglht-a Is of CodfiOi
JCO bundle* CodfiOi
Mfa,
On a credit cf 3 end 6 month«, with undoubted
f curity, the
Brig Onando,
vjfcgAnd «;>y»urte»>»ncc*, hurthrn
r.rie hundred and ILi ny sonn f f.»ft
f.iicr, fwo jrr«r« f»k| on
nv r, m ?hc(Urf df Mi-ffuchufcrts.
I rr c * the niiiitr or board
XtK Cassette*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDA Y EVENING, Jprd 17.
COMMUNICATION,
A freb'e z'empf is made by (he Freer h party
to exnuj-rate their nutters the diredforial ufnrp
ers, from the imputation! of.rapacity ami ve
nality fixed cn them by the difciofure ni the
from our envoys. To decide this
qucftion, happily the dtfpaiches themselves are
fully competent. They go dire&lv to the point ;
ami leave no room for tergiverfatinri- " A per
foa who poflefles the confidence of the directo
ry n what relates to America," and who in af
terwards declared in presence of all the envoys,
to be " M. Talleyrand himfelf," proposes to
tlieni t. To ajrree to > mollification of the lan
guage rf President Adams, refpefling their out
rages against America. 1. To infti.ute a tribu
nal, after the model rontained in the 'Uritifh
treaty, to decide on spoliations, whose awards
when in favor of the American claimant, were
to be part by the American government J 3.
A loan by the United States to France, from
whi h was firft to be taken " certain I'u.ns" for
the " cvjlomary distribution in diplomatic af
fairs." In addition to the declaration of the
agent X. that Talleyrand made thnfcpropofi
tiont inronfidenr* of the direflory, othef con
fidera ions eqwally forcible operate in corrobo
ration. First, it is impoflible to fupjyde that
Talleyrand conld enter into such meafares in
dependent of the directory,without committing
htmfelf entirely to the power of the envoys,
w ho, by pxpofihg his infamous proportions to
them, might t!T<finally ruin him if they were so
pure and perfefl as our Jarobms reprt fen! tiiem.
Second. 1 he minister Talleyrand, being en
trusted by the direflory with the ccmduft of ne
gocia:icns, tlievare atifwersble for his aflions ;
and (he measures. of Talleyra'nd are the mea
fu«e? of;he governments If there existed ground
to fuppofi that filch atrocious condifif, from be
ing rjre and ' ! nprecede';ted, as veil as unau
thorised, •< ould prove a fubjeifl of future exam
inatii *1 and procure the difmiflal o the agent,
there would then be some ground to go upon in
exonerating the directory. But p,ift experience
come in evidence of their familiarity with iiro
j!ar rrniluiTt. This fame Talleyrand, in on
uniiiin with this fame dira&ory, have alrea
dy c;rned on JimiJar practices with Portugal ;
and alter eMnrtlng enormous films from her as
the pi ice cf peace, have treicheroirfly vio ! a'tqd
their contract in the hope of wrefling fyrther
plunder. The money thus robbed from Por
tugal pafled immediately into the hands of the
direilory, and was -employed inbiisging the
army tf. Paris, to the subversion of the constitu
tion. the definition of the best men ill France,
ar.d the lanlefs usurpation of all the powers of
government. Talleyrand was not displaced for
this—on the contrary, the direflory took part
with him in tke whole hufinefs.
Of this,no rational unprejudiced rmnean doub::
that' the corruption and rapicity of the present
men in power in France, is beyond all former
precedent. There cannot be a doubt that the
directory, though their caution and cunning led
them to keep in a great measure
were aiHually at the bottom of tht whole tranf
a<s\inn ; and as they were 'to have partaken of
the spoil wrung r rom our bleeding country, so
ought they to partake their fall share of the in
famy and wgrati .n dee to such
praiPiices.
For the Gazette of the United States.
No, 11.
As another fubjeft of complaint, or, as
another scheme to retard negociation and in
creafa animosity, an apology is demanded
for the President's speech.
The justice cf John Adams's refleftiotis
on the 16th of May, are so notorious, that
2 recantation of them, would make every
true American hang down his head. If
such a circumstance was to take place I (hould
turn from the wall tor every Frenchman I
ma. Every sansculotte would, like the
chiefs in Havanna expeft us to kneel at his
feet.
It may be ufeful, here, to introduce the
particular paragraphs of the President's
communication to Congress, which the di
rectory deem objeftionable.
i ft. " With this condnft of the French
govegiment it will be proper.to take into
view, the public audience, given to the
late minister of the United States on his
taking leave of the Executive Direftory.
The speech of the President,' discloses
sentiments more alarming than the re
fufal of a Minister, because more dangerous
to our independence and union, and at the
fame time ftudieiufly marked with indignities
against the government of the United States.
It evinces a disposition to separate the peo
ple of ( the United States from the govern
ment ; to pcrfuade thtm that they have dif
ferent affeftipns, principlesand interests from
those of their fellow-citizens, whom they
themselves havfe choftn to manage their com
mon concerns ; and thus to produce divi
sions fatal to our peace Such attempts
ought to be repelled with a dccifion, which
(hall convince France and the world, that
we are not a degraded people, humiliated
under a colonial sense of fear fitted to be
the miserable instruments of foreign influ
ence, and regardless of national honor, eha
rafter and'intereft."
2d. " The diplomatic interconrfe be
tween France and the United States being
at present suspended ; the government has
no means of obtaining official information
trom that country ; nevtrlhelefs there is rea
son to believe that the executive directory
pafled i decree on the 2d. of March last,
contravening in part the treaty of amity and
commerce of i"7®> injurious to our lawful
commerce, and endangering the lives of our
citizens. A copy of this decree will be
laid before yoti."
3d. " While we arc endeavoring to ad
just our differences with France, by amica
ble negociatiori, the prpgrefs of the war
in Europe, the depredations on our com
merce, the personal injuries of our citizens
and the general complexion of aflaii s render
it my i 'llifpeitfible duty to recommend to
your cocfidirratioo effectual tncafureo of tie- I
fence."
4'h- " It is impofiible to conceal from
oinfcKcs, or the aorW, what has been be.
obferveJ, that endeavors fiT.ve been
employed to fofter and eftabliih a divilion be
tween the government and the pepplc of the
United States. To irvedigste the causes
| which have encouraged this attempt is not
necefiary. But to repel, by decided and
united councils, iufinuations so derogatory
to the honor, and aggrefilons so dangerous
to the constitution, union,'and even inde
pendence of the nation is an iudifpenfable
duty."
| I will appeal to any man, who efteenfs
candor, justice or patriotic love, as virtues,
if there is an exprefiimn in the whole speech
| which was not warranted, which was not
commendable, from the contemplation of
the political piSure which that day present
ed : and from the natural anticipation of
the contents of the volume cf futurity,—
The French' are little inclined v> liilen to
denunciations againll them ; but " those
who walked in'darknefs" (hould hi made to
fee " light." It is the difnofition of the
worken of iniquity, inseparable from the
materialsof thtir minds, to h:<te the truth :
| hence, the offence taken at the Preiident's
i fentiments,—feritirnents which were
i and jullly occasioned, by the following ex
t tracts from the fuiforpe harangue delivered
j by Barras the d.'reftor, to minister Monroe,
j " Fiance, rich in her liberty, furround
-1 edby a croud of victories, strong in the es
teem of her "allies" (would they had cause
for edeem) " will not abase herfelf, bycal
culmmg the confeqtiencjs of the coidefcen
tion of the American government to the fug
geltions of her former tyrants." If any
i apologies are demaiidahle, has not America
a fight, to claim one for this ? That (he sub
mits to the fuggeftipns of Great Britain in
a fcrvile—condeicending manner.
It ends not here,
" Moreover the French republic hopes,
that the successors of Columbus, Raleigh
and Penn, always proud of their liberty,
will never forget that they-owe it to •France."
O Barras! if death (hould not rid- thy
country of the cahmity thy existence cauf.
es, it may be cbligatrry to vacate thy
t«rone, •'and seek i (helter in an humbler
(hed."
Fortune, who favor 3 the world, rather
t!wn any individual community, may dire£t
thee hither : where thou (hould'll receive aa
ample rerompcrice for gll we owe thee ;
(hould'ft thou rot as food for worms or,
be lufpended for cro\v3 to at.
We " will weigh in " eur " wisdom, the
magnanimous benevolence of she French
peiple, with tha crafty car'cfles of certain
perfidious pcrfons, wl>o meditate btinging
therp bark to their former flavery"—arrd we
(hall not forget, that the authors of many
of their public and private misfortunes, aie
the inftigatoi'B of insult and injury to us.
ARISTIDES.
The following 'fCoiti tof the celebration
by the French army in Holland, of that Ca
ll i bah c Ceremony, the commemmoration of
the murder of the unfortunate Louis, is
trarflated from the .Ley den Gazette of the
2<l of February.
" Head-Quarters, Hague,
The 6th year of the French Republic, one
and indivifiblg, the 2d Pluviofe, correspond
ing to the 2ill January (old style) the an
niveifary of the day when France beheld ty
ranny exphe with the last of its Kings, has
been celebrated after the following manner,
at the Head-Quarters of the French troops
1 at the Hague.
At noon, the Etat-Major-General, that
of the 2d divilion, the chiefs of the differ
ent administrations, the troops of the gar
rison of the Hague, and the Minister Ple
nipotentiary of the French Republic, hav
ing assembled at the Champ De Mars, a
salute from the artillery annorinced the com
mencement of the ceremony. The Minister
Plenipotentiary Charles Lacroix pro
nounced the followiug discourse.
" Five j-ears have rolled away finee the
day which saw fall, under the iron of nation
al justice, the head of he laft'and most per
fidious of our tyrants. That day has aven
ged fourteen ages of slavery, of debasement
and miifortune : It caused to (hine on the
French the fun of liberty, it dectrifed all
their hearts, warmed all their fouls, develo
ped all their talents. Since that day, for
ever memorable, how many triumphant
crowns have been girt round the head of the
Great Nation ! It is above all to you, ge
nerous warriors, that if is indebted for
this glory. Neither the lofty ridges of the
Alps, nor the foaming billows of the Rhine,
nor the icy mar(hes of Batavia, could arrest
your courage ; and soon the ocean (hall no
more prove but a feeble barrier to you.—
What powerful genius operated all these
prodigies, which have signalized the reign
of the conftitntion ? It is the hatred ofa°i
archy, it is the horror of royalty, and of all
the tyrannies. The mcft atrocious remains,
that which burthens the fcas ; and you (hall
destroy that too : Theßatavians, your bro
thers, disengaged from the snares which fe
deialifm imposes on theircourage; will (hew
themselves your worthy rivals ; and the two
republics, and Spain their ally, will owe to
the united efforts of their warriors, the hu
miliation of a proud enemy, the deftru&ion
of a perfidious enemy, a peace, glorious,
ufeful and durable. Let us preserve these
fcntiments forever, wbirff- constitute our
ftrepgth, the love of a wife liberty, the ha
tred of tyranny.; and upon this solemn day,
upon this beloved country, let us repeat
with emulation the oath wfiich the lawprc
fcribes for all Frenchmen.
" I swear hatred to royalty and tq anar
chy ; I swear attachment and fidelity to the
republic and to the caa dilution oi the 3d
year."
All mout'us repeated the oath ; and the
music executed the air Ca Ira. The gene
ral in chief Joubert, then harangu.d the
troops thus :
COMRADES,
There was a time when the Republic was
a^ ollt .. to P CTlfil > w ' )tn ail trealop, when
tiie Kin»s trifled with your courage ; Ai|
? Will i to seize tlitir fcu!s with terror, to ar-
I reft their audacious career, needs but one vi
gorous n<3 of juftioe ; it is time the lall hour
cf kings had founded in France.
Sine* that memorable epoch, how have
our fucct ffesfurpatfed ourrevytfes ? It would
be tedious to enumerate them : It i» left to
your proud imagination toretrace the events
which have succeeded the firft year of the
Republic, and to convince you that the de
, grce ■ f power at which (he has at present
arrived, i 9 due alone toyour hatred pronoun
i ced againll Royalty. Tn fix years you have
amassed upon your heads fix ageS cf glory.
You alone have given an example of all the
virt .ics, cf all the devotion, of all the ener
gies.; and the French soldier is in f-Tithe
hero of the Univtrfe,
One Hep yet remains to be taken : The
Liberty of the Seas mud be your work.—
During the war oa the Continent, all eye*,
at that ft.lctnn period were fixed upon rivers
3«d pn mountains : The fatal oath was pro
nounced : the armies repeated it with emu
lation : and the campaign had always a for
tunate iffne.
All thoughts now cecter in the oteari, in
thoie invincible armies which thither direct
their (tep*.
They have now for an»honr, ftifpended
their triumphal march, to celebrate the fall
of royalty : the found where ;
arid the despot of London groans at it.—-
You, who ought to partake their noble la
bours, deliver yourselves up to the general
enthusiasm ; mnd swear along with all the
Frenchmen, fn-j9refence of a minister, [La
croixj who well knqvvj hqw tq make life of
your triumphs, and whom all the true friends
of liberty wear in their hearts, swear, 1 fay,
hatred to royalty and to anarchy, fidelity
to the republic, and to the conftrttition of
the jd ye?r.
Note. It is remarkable that all the ac
counts of the late ridiculous revolution, in
Holland, are firft published in French pa
pers, and then re-copied into the Dutch
prints,
CONGR E 5 $.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, April ii .
MR. NEW asked and obtained leave of
absence for his Colleague Mr. Clop
jton, for three week's ; and another momber
was appointed in his place on the committee
of enrolment.
Mr. Gordon renewed his motion to
take off the injunftion of (ecrecy from the
members ef this house withrefpeft to the in
ftrutlions of the Executive to our Envoys to
the French Republic, and hoped the house
and galleries would be cleared of (Irangcrs for
the jmrpofe. •
Mr. Nicholas did not think it necefiary
to take up this bwliuefs. He (aw the instruc
tions were printed by the Senate, and laid on
their desks, and as the printers had inserted
the whole of the dispatches in one paper, he
supposed the inftruttions would be published
in the fame way, and if fa, there was no neces
sity for any farther publication of them.
The motion for taking up this matter was
put and negatived 33 fo^o.
Mr. Sew all laid before the house a letter
from the Secretary cf War, inclosing. certain
communications on the fubje£t-of the defence
of the country, which were referred' to the
committee of the whole on the (fate of the
union. • •
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of the widow of Jofiah Flagg, which
was concurred in by the house.
A meflage was received from the Senate,
informing the house that that they had patted
a bill fifr the relief of Joseph Nourfe, to whiti
they requeit concurrence; alfe the bill ma
king certain reimbursements to our Consuls
in foreign countries.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole on the (late of the union, Mr.
Den t in the chair, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the bill supplementary to
the a£t providing for the further defence of
the ports and harbours of the United States.
The chairman having gone through the bill,
and repeated she firft feftion, in which was a
blank for the sum to be appropriated,
Mr, S. Smith (aid, as the chairman of tire
committee whs reported the bill (Mr. Sewall)
was-not in his place, he lhoul,d propose to fill
the blank with 200,000 dollars. Whenfpeak
ing on this fubjett before lie had said that
| 150,000 dollars (and not 115,200, as he found
he had been understood to fay) had beenefti
mated as necefiary ; but in order to leave a
furpltis in the hands of the President, he be
lieved it would be proper to fill the blank
with the sum he had named. But as he now
i«w the chairman in his place, he would pro
' biibly llate what the estimate was.
Mr. Sewall feeonded the motion for fill
ing the blank with 200,000 dollars. The esti
mate which the committee had made, he dated
to be as follow s :
At Boston, \iliete no fnoney has here- Dolt.
tofore beenexpendedby the United
States, which is therefore wiihout
defence, though as Jikely. to be
(truck at by an enemy as any port
in the Union - . 50,000
At Newport, where some provision
has already bien made - 30,000
At New-York, where some fortifi
■"V cations are already erefted, a far
ther sum is necefiary fpr Gover
nor's llland, 011 which the United
Stateshaveexpended about 13,000
dollars _ . 50,000
At Baltimore, where some money
has been expended, but it has been
reprefentcd to-the committee that
the fortifications are infulficient
and ill-placed . 20,000
At Norfolk, for eflablifhing a new
fortification on Old Poiut Comfort,
and for Fort Nellon - / 30,000
At Charleston, on the fortifications
'here - 40,000
AtSavannahand St.Mary'sin Geor
gia - 15,000
4 ——_____
'3si°°o
In this film, Mr. S. said, wrre included se
veral funis contained in a former estimate ;of
whiclra balance of 90,000 dollars remain un
expended. Deduit this sum from the above,
and rhere will remain 145,000 to be provided
tor; but, in consideration of the genenfl'Sh •
thority placed in the President, the committee
concluded to recommend an appropriation of
200,000 dollars. " .
Mt. Ulount observed, that there was no
efhraate in the ffatement which had been
made for any fortifications in North-Carolina^
and from '.he proceedjrgs had in this business
heretofore, he was convinced of the propriety
of designating the different places at which
money liould be expended, and the amount
for each, confining the appropriation to such
as would be likely to answer some valuable
purpose. He therefore moved that the com
mittee rife, and if this motion was carried, he
Ihould then move to re-commit the"bi! for
the purpose of accomplilhing what lie had
mentioned.
Mr. Sew a Li. was proceeding to reply to
Mr. Blount, when the chairman Hopped him,
and fold, lie found that this bill had not been
referred to the committee of the whole on the
(late of the'union, but to an ordinary commit
tee of the whole.
A motion was accordingly made and car
ried for the corrtmittee to rife. The house
being reftifhed.,
Mr. SloWt'moved that the committee
of thcwhttle, tt> whom had been referred the
bill fupptefnen'tary to the aft providing for
the further defciice of the ports and harbours
of the WfffWd States, be discharged, and that
the brll be re-committed to the- felett com
mittee, to-be reported in the fpecific way in
which he had already -mentioned. .Formerly
when a bill of this kind was palled, an esti
mate limilair to the present was furnifhedj and
it was proposed so afortjat Ocracock in
Carolina, of'ejeht guns, and a sum of mo
•neyrwis appropriated accordingly. But it fort
of double this itteiigth was commenced, and
instead of a barrack tor 50 men, one was be
gun which would contain 503, so that the
whole sum of money appropriated was ex
pended informing the outlines o-t the work.
A fort of eigllt guns would answer a valuable
purpose at this place, and, as he did net ex
tent it would be attended to without it was ex
prefslv mentioned, he hoped bill would be
re-committed.
Mr. SEwALLfaid, the committee had at
tempted to form a bill in this way 5 bnt they
found io many difficulties in it, as to induce
them to adopt the present plan, and give the
Executive full dilcrefion in thisbiifinefs. If
the re was a wUnt of attention to any particular
plarr, on application t« tlie President,- the de
feft would doubt'efs be remedied. It w'aa
iwipolTible to ascertain, without actual inspec
tion, what was necessary to be expended at
the different places ; it was therefore thought'*'
to be ber\ to leave the business with the Exe
cutive.
Mr. M'DowtlLWis in favourof the com
mittee being difchnrged, for the purpose
mentioned, fie thought it might be as well
•afcertuined from the members of: that house
what would be neceliary to complete the dif
ferent fortifications as in any other way. It
appeared extraordinary to him that N. Caro
lina had been wholly unattended to*
Mr. Otis thought it very improper for
members to come forward to point out to the
world the weak and nioft vulnerable parts of
the Union; he*"believed the business might
be fately trufled in the hands of the President.
If war were to take place, and the President
was to be reftrifled in the way proposed, after
the.money appropriated was expended, the
enemy would know he could go no further.
He could imagine a contingency to happen,
three weeks after Congress h&s risen, which
lhould make it necessary to expend all the
money appropriated at one place. The pre
sent-, he said, ought not to beconfidered mere
ly as the fortification of a peace e<labli(hment ;
but the President (liould have power to oppose
.danger wherever it may threaten. If the Hate
ot N. Carolina had been he had no
doubt,onapplication totlie President, it would
be attended to.
Mr.,Bsooits would just add, tha't they
'had 110 documents'to enable them td judge
what was heceflary to be done at different'
places. It was true the committee had made
an eliimate ; but it had been done without any
certainty. Nothing could be done without a,
■Purvey. The Executive would douhtlefs take
care to have this made, and do what was ne
cessary in the bulinefs.
Mr. S. Smith said the fubjeft had been
conlidered in the felecl committee upon the
-ground dated by the gentleman from North-
Carolin.i, and he was originally in favourof
this mode ; but, upon considering the fubjeft
he found it would be attended with many dif
ficulties, without producing all the benefits he
had contemplated, he therefore gave way.—
ihelaft fedion the Secretary of War made a
report, mentioning the different places at
which money <vas wanted to complete fortifi
cations, the whole amount of which was
200,000 dollars. New-York was omitted from
the edimate, and 145,000 dollars were appro
priated, Having got the money, it was to be
supposed the Secretary of War would havp
proceeded with the bulinefs; but a few of the
places had only been attended to, and very
trifling fuins expended. The reasons he gave
tor not having expended more were, that he
had a iked tor an additional regiment of artil
lery, whieh not bein* given, there would not
be fuincient men to place in them. How far
he Was right in afting thus, he mud himfel'f
answer. But it was proper, at a time when
war, if not unavoidable, is at lead very pro
bable, to place the power and refnonlibility
in the hands of the President, and leave it to
him to fee that the Secretary of War does his
duty. He was willing to give him 200,000
dollars for this purpole.
Mr. Venable thought the objeft of the
gentleman from N. Carolina might be anfwer
cd by designating the places at which money
should be expended, without mentioning the
Aim; leaving it to the President to expend
what fijras he thinks proper, and to fortify
such oth?r places as he may judge fccell'ary.
Mr. Baldwin laid, there waj not the lame
difficulty in the business of fortification now,
as wTien it was firft gotte into. At that 'time,
mar.y persons were of opinion with the chair
man of the present copimittee that the money
would be belt appropriated in gross • .but it
was otherwife,
ers were sent to different parts of the I, T nited
States, tor thfl purpose of making surveys and
reports. In some places they recommended
permanent works, and in others works of a
less fubllantial kind. As these reports could
readily be referred to; except as to the new
fortifications pFopofed, it would, perhaps, be
bed to follow, tlie cotiHe heretofore taken, as
though it would.be attended with a little more
trouble, it would take a considerable burthen
from the Prelident. ;r
Mr. SeWall laid a few words in reply,
which were unfwerediby M¥. Baldwin.
Mr. J. Williams was fully fatisfied the
bill otight not to be repommitted, for the rea
sons stated by the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. S. Smith). The President wouid be
better able to learn where it would be proper
to lay out money on this subjeCt than that
' loule could ; for if they were to go into the
bufinefs,-one d-ate woujd wi(h this place to be
fortified, and another that; bin the President
would expend the money where it was really
wanted, and it the foiithern dates w*ere to be
threatened, it might be necessary to spend the
greatelt part of it there.
Mr. Macon wasin favourof the motion;
for if the different places were enumerated, he
(liould move to (hike out New-York, as it
had been shewn heretofore that the fortifies^ons which are erefting there will be ufclefs, 1
and that the money expended upon them will t
be thrown away. He was fuppprted in this 1
opinion also by the report of an engineer at the r
last feflion. c
Mr. Grove was for the committee's being (
discharged. It appeared to hint that the t
felefft committee had wanted information with \
rsfpett to from which he came, a
They had a coast of 400 miles, on which was (
much wealth, and on which were places of f
considerable consequence, particularly Wil- c
mington and Georgetown, which had not a 1
gun to protest them against any privateer that c
miaht comeagainfl them. The moneywhich 1
had already be?n expended was wholly use- <
less; and'if the people in, that quarter fee ]
Congress is determined <so do nothing i
them, they will be under ttfe njeceflity of do
ing something for themselves. He was afton- <
ifhed that 110 attention had been paid to this 1
coast, as an enemy inijfht.in two hours fail 1
from the ocean, and put arms into the hands 1
of at least 5000 men, vyho might be ready to
receive them. He could produce letters to
shew that the people In tljat quarter consider .
theaifelves in a very dangerous littiation. He
hoped therefore the bill wspld be recommit
ted, and that this part of the country would
be looked at. He was willing to vote for ev
ery measure of defence which might be tho't
neceffiry ; but he could not lit (ilsnt to fee
the Itate from whence he came wholly neglect
ed.
Mr. Livingston fuid, the reason which
the gentleman from Norch-Ciirolina (Mr. Ma
con) had afligned for wit'iing the bill to be re
committed, vizi that he might have an oppor
tunity of ftrkingr out the'port of New-York,
convinced hiifi of tha propriety of not recom
mitting it. fyjr. L. gave reafon3 why it was
proper to attend to the port of New-York.—
vVithrefpeCt tojthe groundaßigned for a recom
mittal by the gentleman last up, he would
recollect that the feleft committee estimated
that there would be a balance of 55,00 a dol
lars, to expend on Inch placesas the President
fliould think proper; and if he., should be ap
plied to, {here could be no doubt but thecoalt
cf N. Carolina, which he hadfpoken of would
te attended to. If lli^committee were inpof
feilion of fufficient information for the purpose
he should himfelf be in favor of fpecific appro
priations ; but he was co.iviuced they were
note
Mr. Hartley was opaofed to the motion
for difcharginh the committee, as it would ne
atnended with a lofsof time, and caofeagreat
deal of unneceTary debale ; for as the gentle
ma'nfrom N. Carolina (Mr. Macon) isagamft
the whole bill, it might be supposed he would
bppofe every place that was mentioned for
fortification. He believed New-York oughtto
be attended to, and he doubted not the object
wi/hed by theoti.ergentlemanfromN.Carolina
(Mr, Grove) would b-effected by the present
bill. He thought it proper that discretion
should be left with the President in this bufi
nafs, as it might be necessary to erect forts at
places which were not at present contemplated
Mr. Brooks waiconvinced of theimpro
priejy of committing the bill from the reason
alTigned by His colleague. The bufmefs, he
said, would be belt lett with the President,
■who would cokiduct it withoutthofe local pre
judices which would not Otil to shew them
selves, if the members of that house were to
undertake to delignate the places.
Mr. Pinckney rose to juftify or excuse
the feledt committee for not having inserted
in their estimate that part of the coast which
had been fp. keh of by the gentlenan from N.
Carolina (Mr. Grove). It would be neces
sary to explain the views of the committee
011 that fubjeit The committee to whom
this fubjeit was referred, is not only a com
irritteefortaking into consideration fortifica
tions, but also the general defence of the Uni
ted States. They were not forgetful of that
part of the country which has been mention
ed ; but they did not think fortifications the
bed kind of defence for it. They contempla
ted the employment of gal lies on that coast,
which would be better calculated for de
fending it against privateers, than fortifications
would "be. * They thought fortifications use
less, except for the protection of large cities,
to preventthem from being bombarded or
laid under contribution ; but for the general
protection of the coast, a moving defence,
which is able to pass in (hallow water, will be
found much preferable.
With refpeft to New-York, he believed it
necessary to pay immediate attention to it.
Considerable sums had been expended 011 the
works there, and to leave them iH their pre
sent Itate, woL'ld only be to hold ojita lure to
anej-emy to take poflefiion of them and by
that means get command of one of the firft
cities in the union.
Asfo Ocracock, in North-Carolina, it may
be, and-lie doubted not it was a proper place
for a fortification ; but if gentlemen will con
sider that there is already an unexpended sum
of 90,000 dollars, part of which was appro
priated for that object, there is 110 necellity
for recommitting the bill to have that place
inserted.
The committee, he said, had reported a
proposition "for a Marine Defence, and a bill
lias been received from the Senate for the
fame obje£t ; and they had no doubt but the
President would provide fortifications at f«ch
Other places as might be thought proper,
which tlic committee had not included in their
cflimate.
Mr. Gamatin said, he did not under
stand that the motion of the gentleman from
North Carolina was intended to destroy the
bill, but merely that certain fpecilic appro
priations should be made, instead of leaving
the business altogether to the President. He
was himfelf in favour of this motion ; and he
was so becaiife he was in favour of the bill.
He wished money not only to.be appropriated,
but aftifally applied ; for experience had
tayght the house that when money wasappro
priated in the loose manner proposed by this
bill, it had not been expended. His idea
was that the money should be appropriated,
and that not only the President ftiould have
the power of applying it, but he directed to
fee that fticli and such places lje fortified, and
appropriate such and such sums for the pur
pose- In doing this, he did not wish to enu
merate arty more than the principal places
which had been named by the chairman of
the feleiit committee. In addition to this,
he wilhed a sum to be appropriated to be ex
pended on such ports as may not be mention
ed, but which it may hereafter be found ne
cessary by the President to fortify, or to make
good any deficiencies in the appropriations
which are fpecified. I,f the appropriations
■were not made in this Ipecific way, he a Iked
what security the house had that the objects
proposed would be accomplished > He be
lieved "they had none. The Secretary of War
told the house that the money appropriated
at tlje last feQjon was rot applied for two rea
sons ; one was, because Congress T.ad not
provided an regiment of artillery ?
the other was, bccaufc a condition had been
nade that the states should firft make ceflion
ef the iurifdiCtion of the ground whereon for
tifi< ations were erefted, and '.nat the cefhan
/ had not been made. The house has removed
die Lt;er obftack, though no additional artil
leryiiyet rftheb.ufinefj wasleftto
the difjretion of die fe< letaryof war, perhaps
he might at the next iclfion, aflign (omeother
reason for not having applied the money to the
objeftsfor which it wai appropriated. In the
prelent infiance he would be bold to fay that
the house had adted riv.ht, and the fecrctary of
war wrong. He last ftllion ivrjited an addition
al regiment of arrillery, which it was now
seen were not wanted ; whereas, if he hadex
pended the money as directed, our fortificati- i
ons would have been in a betterfituation than
they now are. Knowing this had been the
cafe heretofore, Mr. G. thoi i.t that the '
house, whose duty it was to provide for the j
defence of the country, ought not only to ap
propriate the money for the purpose, bitt di
rect it to be applied to particular objects.
Mr. G. was sorry to hear any local objefti
onS to thisbill. The gentleman from N- Ca
rolina had exprefled hisdelire to have the bill
recommitted, that he might have an oppor
tunity of flrikinjout New-York. To attain
this object a recommitment was not necessary,
It might be done by striking out the last fecti -
on of the bill. He mentioned thisbecaufc the
gentleman from'New-York had oppoi'ed the
recommitment on that ground.
As ail individual, it Was his opinion that
the (late of New j York ought to have ceded
the place on which her fortifications are ere£U
(d, in the fame way as Pennsylvania and other
states had done ; he also thought that flatc
ought to have taken measures to have paid
the balance which they owe to the United
States. In both points he blamed them j but
in the present situation of the country, wishing
every vulnerable place to be fortified, and as
it was for the intceft and fafety of the union
that that port should be fortified, he certain
ly wished it to be attended to. He would go
as far as any gentleman in fortifying the ports
and harbours of the United States. He was
willing to appropriate 200,000 dollars for the
pijrpofe ; and he should be equally ready to
appropriate for providing filch gufl boats or
floatingbatteries as may be thought necessary
for the protection of the coast.
His colleague said he was opposed to the
recommitment, because it would occafionde
lay". He would remind him that that could
not be the cafe, as there were now in hand
90,000 dollars of an unexpended appropriati
on, and the commitment would not occaiion
a delay of more than a day or two.
fTt be conttnucd.J
Yeflerday, the Houle of Representatives of
the United States went into a committee of
the whole 011 the state of the union, on the bill
providing an additional regiment of artillery,
and engineers and the number of companies
to be raised was filled up with thiec and the
period for enlistment with five years, and a
difculfion took place which occupied molt of
the fitting, on a motion to limit tlie duration
of the law to two years. The motion was fi
nally negatived, 45 to 36. The debate on this
bill, together with other proceedings of the
fitting, fliall appear in a future paper.
Several petitions and resolutions were present
ed from certain places in the Hates of New-Jer
sey, Virginia and MafTachufetts, against the arm
ing of merthant's vessels, and generally againlt
any measures which may lead to war.
To be Sold by Au&ion, at the Cof
fee-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the- 1 ft May
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the
Custom-House, payable to William Love,
chair-maker, 150, North Front flreet, for ajo
dollars, dated the 30th June 1797, due the id of
Aug. but neglefled to be presented or protefled
till the 18th Aujjuft by .the Batik of Pennsylva
nia, for which ttie 15 ink will become liable, if a
jury independent of Bank» can b« foußd.
April 13. *6t
TO THE PUBLIC. ,
IT appears evident j thai the purport of Mr. William
Priefmans auvettifing my Kite for sale at th* Met'
chants' Coffee house, »n ihe firjl of May next, is dor.e y
merely for the purpose of injuring n:y charcftcr^ —it re
mains only for me to convince the world, that my intentions
1 to discharge the fame, are truly honorable and juji. A
bout ten days after ijfuinv said note to Mr. Love, he called
cn me to know if 1 eould dfcount it: I anfwet ed I would j
do it the Saturday folloiviticr—tie not callirg 11 me, as I j
' expeflcd, J called at his hcufe for the purptfe; when he \
informed me that it was in the vf Mr. lVugner, \
■ in Secondflrtet, on whom I called for the purpose of tak
ing it up, previous 't» leaving the city during the fever, —
• who told me be knew nothing of the note ; I never learnt
where it was until my return to the city t whcA a ferics of
) unparalleled misfortunes had rendered ne incapable <f
' difebarging my jufl debts : I called on Mr. Priejlman, as
t well as my other creditors y and off ered to pay them by an
order for retaining a pbrtion of my yearly Jalary, until
I they were paid, convincing them that this was my only
I resource, and produced paper (which was, when
taken, deemed good J to thrice the amount of ay debts, —
I which was abandoned by Mr. Priejlman only, to the un
feeling attack on my ehara&er Jay pitblijhing my note for sale.
! Should any gentleman incline pur chafing my note, he
* may reft assured of my honefl determination to the difebarge
thereof \by the f t off as 1 propefe here ; and very pro
bably in a fhsrt time, should I rective remittmees which
t are daily expefled from abroad, they will enable me amply
to difebarge all the debt, due. by
MICHAEL KRAFFT.
1 april 17. *3 f
r The Subscribers,
Are landing at Willing's wharf, from on board
■ of the ship Elizabeth, Captai> Peaflee, from Ba
-1 tavia,
I 400,000 lbs. of best Java Coffee,
r 191 Caniftersof Sugar
' .* few tou» of Sapan wood
FOR SALE. BY
Philips, Cramond s3* Co
t april 16 iw
! tfOW LANDING,
s From on boatd the febr. Charlotte from Boiton,
a 30 chells Bohea
, • 30 do. Hyfou > TEAS
5 36 do Souchongj
3 And from on board the schooner Favourite from
3 Hi. hmond (.Vir.)
648 b*ls. !upevfine ) FLOUR
66 do. fine 3
And alfiJ a quantity of WHEAT
t For Sale on reasonable terms, by
GEORGE TLUMSTED,
No. 166, South Front fiieet.
April j 3» nw
= FOR SALE,
® Two three story Brick Houses
'Vifh convenient ttofes, wharf, dtc. firuatc on
s Water flreet, between Mulberry an l Siflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water flreet fif
r ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eaft
-1 ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
louth thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe h&ule»
t have the convenience of a publ-e alley adjoin
p injf on the north fide, and iiea very defirahlefit
-1 uati»n sot a a merchant. Hour fa "or, or othera
, who ryiiy have occaiion for llorage of
'I hn property will be so i J on eery reasonable
t terms for < l"or furtUer information apply
1 to the printer.
April 5 miwtf
Xfce &a?ette.
p\lllA DELPHIA,
■'M %
TUESDAY EVENING, Afrit 17.
FIRE.
Last night about twelve o'clock, a ;
fire broke out in a coopei's shop on a wharf
belonging- to Mr. J. Wilcocks's estate, be- 1
low South-street, which confumedthe (hop, 1
and incrtafed to an alarming heighth, dc- :
ilroytd a range offtores extending to Water- 1
[ ftrect, and doing much damage to several '
adjoining houles on both fides. A large quan- '
I tity of Have? was also destroyed. The fire '
I raged till nearHwo o'clock. . 1
In one of the wards ofthe city,every indi '
vidual excepting five, Cheerfally and readily 1
signed the address to the PrefiJent of the 1
United States agreed upon at Dunwoody's. 1
It appears ficm the mod unquestionable 1
authority, that the fooliih refolutiona offer
ed to the citizens of Richmond, by Dr.
Fntee, and two or three other demagogues,
met the decided disapprobation of a large
majority of the meeting.
Bache fays in his Aurora, that Dunwoodv's
room " held fcur hundred people, b. fides many
who could net set -in." Ti c bull afide,tliit there
were many who could not get in, is true —but
that ihe room held or will hold four hundred, I
believe is not true [ nor >ios» Bacbe believe what
he has puhlilhed. 11 is talk about t«o and four
hundred :s rne. Ely to deceive'.he people at a dis
tance. It was s ever intended to collecfl a holt,
it was unnecefi'ary. The c< mnariy aflcmbled,
filled tie room,and was unanimous, iand Biche
id iha'lenged to do his duty to his readers, by
pubiifhing the wlj 0 '" 1 of 'he proceedings, and
the address, as other piiote's have done, that,
his young men, and h s oldjnen, may read and
judge for th 1 "/(fZ-v.f, what the comp exien and
delign of (lie business is. And fvrther, he is
called upon to piifchlh a full and fair accouat of
the number of the fignerj to the addrefiVs as
soon as completed —-th' 3 however he will not do; !
fcr he kn w» that dilclofure 1 radls at this j
time would ruin his publication.
THE MANAGERS OF THE THEATRE
Should pay some r'efpedl to the public feeling in
the iclcAioii of their music—The ewthvfiaftic
clamour and applause with which the President's
March hasbeen called for and received for some
time past, ihould liava taught the managers the
impropriety of refufiug it to the people last even
ing until absolutely compelled to give it. As
the patriotic enthusiasm encreafes such an un
willingness t» gratify it, may be dangerous to
the fiddles and the fiddlers. For the fame rea
son it is to be hoped no more attempts will be
madt to grate and torture the public ear with
those shouts Ca Ira and the Marseilles Hymn,
as they have been so universally hifled more than
once. This hint may be worth attending to —
Thank Ood the time is J>,aft when the Ameri
cans rejoice at those tun* which have madden
ed and driven the monsters of France to the in
-discriminate murder and maflacre of the young
and the old, the mother tnd the infant, the in
nocent and the guilty.
f .
[ (Ve have been favored with a copy of the fol
io-wing letter for pub/icfllion, written to a
gentleman in this tity—we communicate it
<with pleasure, as containing sentiments
which every friend to our country mujl ap
prove.]
Fredericljburgy. April 12th, 1798.
Sir,
No man, T can allure you, feels more in
tereiled in the honor and happisefs of our
coun ry, than I do ; what m*fl be my con
cern then, to fee it agitated by parties,
which, if they do not subside, will over
whelm in common ruin, our government,
our Con fti tut ion, our liberties, in short, eve
ry thing, that is mofl dear to us and our
posterity ? There is, I fear, more than a
party, there is a Faction, again ft government
j and the union, which, seems to have taken
j this determination, " to prostrate *>ur inde
' pendence at the feet of France, and fubfti
i tute to theprefent established order of things
' a tyrannous anarchy, sooner, than defend
j America by the powers and faculties ftie can
■ call forth against this ofFenfive nation (which
. has already, nay for years, waged war a
-1 gainll the United States) as eventually, de
{ fenfive operations may draw our ir.terefts
5 i into closer conneftion with, those of En
' i glond." We are warranted in the entertain
ment of tkis opinion from the conduft held
by a certain set of men, for the last five
years; from the period of president Wash
ington's proclamation of neutrality to the
I present time. Had they been bribed by
. France, which is not supposed, (for why
hold out pecuniary inducements to those
who are volunteers in the cause ?) they could
not have afted for their retainers, againfl their
country w'.th a more hasty zeal ; a zeal,
which (too ready and fpontaneoils to await
the advances of corruption, but) springing
into aftion with a groupe of passions restless
and malignant", owes its life and being to
infernal agency alone—Order, law, -dnere
' fpe£t to those, who are fct in airfhority over
us, it rarely inculcated ; and our public
prints, too seldom, explain upon the con
i dust of those, who ryerit popular reproba
tion : all address and aftiyitj;„are on the
other fide ; and the passions are pre-engaged
by bll those artificrs, which are calculated
to work on the mass of vulgar ignorance.
Not one in an hundred of our citizens, who
lives out of cities and towns tver reads a
Philadelphia paper, or a debate in Congress :
they kuow no more of the doings of their
reprefentalives, from these vehicles of in
telligence, than if they were [written [in a
1 1 foreign language. Men credulous and ill
5 informed arc fit materials to be worked on
by thofr who Jtave once gained their confi
, dence ; they yield like potter's clay to the
s k.and of the artificer ; and take whatever
- (hape he designs to give them : with little
- knowledge,little art, and such opportunities
3 much mifthief may bs done j and, much is
" done; to administer fuel, in large abundance
e to paflion and prejudice is the undenting
office of the catilinsrian junto P in this there
f is no relaxation—Tbey do not cail in to
their aid ridiuu'e or wit, but r. fr,'t lo any
common-plat e-matter that offer 3 itfelf ; for
inftanc,.-, " (lie American wa r —atfd tln* in
terference of France—England the deadly
roe of America—France the dear ally—
England a frightful monarchy -France* a •
mild republic—England the enemy to liber- /
ty —France the guardian and proteflor of
it—the grali'.ui'v due«o France for former
favors—the ingratitude (he experiences."
' Then follow " the treaty-os amity arid ,
commerce—Jay's Treaty—inve&ive again It
■him, col. Hamilton, general Walhington—
a'.vjfe of the Prefideat, and all of those
character?, whom superior worth and merit 1
haveraifedtofuf>erior stations;" theirattach- v
mcnt tothis european country ; thtir oppofi- r
tionto that : thr unbounded influence of the ,
executive power"—that it has increased, ij
increaling, and ought to be diminillied" — 1
" And to close alia 'vindication of France
for waging an offenfive war against these
states, by indiscriminate spoliations on our ,
commerce to the ruin of hundreds of our j
merchants, and the crutl captivity of
thousands of our Citizens and Seamen— | I
with thtfe coarse means and low arts our |*
people are, too generally, deluded ; and as ' '
the great aim of these unambiguous difcour- j
fss is to render those men, w! o are put in ; <
authority over us," objefts for the hand cf
Icorn to point his slowly moving finger at,"
all the passions of envy, hatred, and malice
are enlisted in the fcivice of these foldier3 of
calumny, and mightily aid their diabolical
; devices. They know full well, that the dis
charge of public duties, and the execution j '
of th; laws have no tendency to increase po-!
pularity ; on the contrary, when jh?, who
was but yesterday the idol of it, is induft- j
;ed into, authoritive power which he never ex- i
erts without all due circumfpeftion, and
prudence, and delicacy and rightfulnefs ;
where nothing is difplayed,of " '
14 The tvfolsnce tsf oj}tce t and the fburns
H. bat patient \erit cf tbe unworthy takes / '
Yet it becomes lessened and obfeured and 1
oftentimes loft forever. Availing thcmfelves
of this sure confequenee of official situation j
j and of this propensity in human nature to
lower what is graduated, and to hate even
virtue ■when hung too high to be reached by
every common hand, they torn with adroit
ness this temper to their flagitious purpefes
and give it what direftion they please
- of these advantages, partly, at
tributable to the confidence reposed in them,
by a too credulous, but honest people ; and,
partly to the infirmity of our common na
ture, a jealousy and envy of our superiors ;
ufifig an ever vigilant activity, beyond coun
teradion and surprize, I fear, Sir, the day,
in which deception will be laid open and
exposed to an abused yeomanry, is, in these
diftrids, at least, far diilant.
sth of April.
ExtraQ »f a Utter soth March from Richmond.
" You have no idea of the lengths which
the Jacobins of this town are driving to.—
On Monday is our court day, and an anony
mous publication ha 9 appeared in the news
papers and in hand billls parted* up all over
the town, informing that an address will be
(■ offered them recommending an address to
'■ Congrefsto intreat that body to take no step
which may rifle a dispute with France.—
- You will fay, is this poflible ? It is too true
Sir, and the mifchief is increased from the
artful circumstance of seizing the opportu
nity of a court day at this fliort notice pre
cluding the possibility of undeceiving the
uninformed by the (hortnefs of time —to ;
r what do these things tend? I sincerely i
hope that these "men (I will not call them !
' traitors) may in the end meet their reward |
" the frowns, nay indignation of the people" i
' ' and that pease may once more bless Israel
in our days.'
1 M I am iuformedthe inhabitants, mer
' chants and feamcn of Norfolk are well plea
sed, that they are no longer retrained from
1 putting their vefl'els in a condition to a£t de
feiifively, whenever they may be attacked.,^
j AbJlraEl of Foreign Intelligence received
at Nciv-Torh, by the brig Antb and
Mary, in 34 days from Cork.
The French troops under General
Berthier entered Rome on the 1 oth Feb.
* French troops have entered the territory
. of Berne—A cor.ftitution has been sent
I to Pays de Vaud from Paris, by citizen
e Ochs, and adopted. Buonaparte was at
Calais—D'Aranjo is to be tried. Spain
y has granted permiflion for 50000 French
y troops to march through that country to
e Portugal—Hamburgh has submitted to
? all the French requilitions. The lata
[ F honr at which the mail arrived prevents
t enlarging.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, DAYS.
Brig Concord, Gorgofen Cette 70
Sdir Venus, Hammond Savannah 14
Tryal, Hand Alexandria 15
e Mahaley, Robin 9 Virginia 12
SloopSea Flower,Cumpllock,N. London 21
j 'ally, Crofley Virginia 4
Betfty, Fitch Nantucket 14
Trimmer, Doughty N. Carolina 15
Brandy wine, Burdon R. Island 19
CLEARED.
Ship Rebecca, M'Keever St. Thomas
| Snow Ceres, Eve Madeira
Brig Ruby, Art Bilboa
j] Beaver, Elliot Savannah
Schr. Fortitude, T a y' or Norfolk
Favorite, Weymotb do
Weymouth, Guthrie N. York
x ————— ———
le For Sale,
>s BY THE iLBJCRTBF. R., NO JO, CHISNU** ITREET,
rx 11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
e Which will be Coll i n rtafonable terms cn a ftoit
2T credit*
'9 Robert Henderfon.
O april a x»vr3 c^w
dOQQP ■■ ii■■■ ■ll m\' ■ 9*mj
NE W-Tf IE ATRI : .
Mr. Wjrren s N'gb \
TO-MORROW EVENING, Ap.il fj»,
IVill kcpreftrtoJ, a Tragedy, in % aclr {never ftrfa-,/,. i
here) —founded ** fail —ccilt'e/,
FATAL CUR'OSITY ;
Or, the COR NISH SHIPWRECK.
[ JYritte* by Mr. Lillo, author ef George Barnivel!\ «<
tired ky f. P. Ktmb!t % Ejcj and noiv ft'forrr.':n r a*
Drury Lae Tbestre tvilli unbounded afpUtfe ]
Wil;nst> mr Fi nrell; Ycvng IVilmot, rt.r Fete ;
Euflace, mr IVa mil; Randall, mr Warrell t jx.t; Ser
vant, mr Hunter.
Agnes, rrtrt Merry ; Charlotte t ntrs Marjhall; /,/_• -
ria mrft &EJirattle
An EPILQGUIZ t adapted to the Tragedy (written in
America J to It spoken Ly Airs. AlarJbjll.
MORE SACK—'An Ebilugve, in the char2frier of Sir
Join Faljiaff, to be Junker Ly Air, Warren.
After rvbkb tin Int:rluie. nailed,
Doctor Lad's Examination.
[Taken from Footers Comedy of Toe Devil Upon Two
&/<(£/. J
Dcflor Lajl, ntr BernurJ; Doftor He!L\ore, r,y
Warren ; Secretary, mr Worrell; Dailot Sy mcjt,, L,-
va<ct. Lnjferty, life.
After itbicby Mr. and Airs. Bytne mill dance tie muuj
x admired
PAS RUSE.
i To Iwhich will be added y a Comedy, in three a Sis (never
performed Iter*) called
The Man of Quality ;
Or, A Trip to Scarborough.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and
of Mr. Warren, Filbert, corner of Eleventh
llreets.
Cj" On Friday, will be performed, the
Comedy, of the WEST INDIAN
With a Mulical Entertainment (not pet
formed these two years) called THE PRI
SONER—For the benefit of Mr. and IVJrt,.
Hardinge.
* % * Mr. Dari-ey's night will be on
Saturday next.
Landing,
Frem on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the rua cribbk,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 C3nifters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
' JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. §
IMPORTED.
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER.
Brown Hollands
Oil Cloths
Gilt, Silver'dand common marbled paper
Gtrnian Tapes
Looking Glafles
Straw knives, Scythes, and a variety of other
German goods.
ALSO ON HAND,
A General Afiortment of Ironmongery,
Sadlery, &c.
1 Gideon H'til Wells,
■ Market, between 3d and 4th streets, No.
April 17 •> tawfiw
• German town and Reading Turn
r pike Road Company.
" Subfciibers CommifTiomrs appointed by
5 Xan Ail of Aflerobly of this Commonwealth
3 entitled, "An afl to enable the Governor 0/this
- Commonwealth to incorporate a Company tor
» making an Artificial Road, from the city of Ph -
.. ladelphia, through G'irmantown, by the rout
ofCliefnut Hill, to the twelve nii.'a llonf oa
the Heading Road, and thti.ee to Heading in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
: arc provided as the law direiSs, and that we
1 1 will proceed to receive fabferiptions for the cnir
f j pany*6 ft nek on the 28th, 19th, and icth days
I ! of Jflay next, at the City Hall, in the city of
j* | Philadelphia,at the Tavern of William Buchais ,
, in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berf,
. in Reading in the county of Berks, ar.d at the
Tavern of George PfHcjcer, in l'otts-Town 11
the county of Montgomery, on the fame day:,
'• from ten o'clock in the morning, •■ntil two
t- clock,P. M. en each day, when and where cep
n tain of rhe Comm Simers will attend to receive
.. fnbfcriptions accordingly.
April i 4 th, 1795.
', BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
Caspar w.Haines,
d SAMUEL BL'TI ON,
a GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
il JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
} " DANIEL ROSE,
y SAMUEL LAVI-RTY,
, t GEf)RGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
II N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
it share at the time of fubferihing.
n april 17 —eodt.'joM
U To be Let,
0 (And immediate pofTeffiou given)
0 A Pleai'aot Country heat, on the German-
XVJtown rosd, five miles and a qnartcr from
■ 1 the City. Enquire St No. 39 Pine-street.
ts .'pril 17, • uwtf
LrIIAND b ALL,
THE LAST THIS SJS \>ON,
At Rickctts's Circt <n 01 Thursday nrjft, io*h
under the di>c£lion «/1 Mr. By«we. Th« i.ad(c» #
and Gentlemen who intend honouring hirn with tiicir
company are jequeftcd to fend tnr Ticket# at e?/lv a»
poflibic. Geniiemeq'f one dollar eaph to be h dac
O- O'Ellers's Hotel, and I. dies* of Mr. & Mrs
4 No. in, South Second, corner of Dock. Street.
april 16
; *NOT 1C L.
' I 'HE Partnership of the fuHfcribcr*, tradm" un.
+ 1 der the firm of I'AXSON W kICHARD
-4 SON, was dissolved on the «he third m-jiifh
5 last, by mutu 1 consent. All perfotis indcbtt4
Cj thereto are eameftly requeued to raake payi. cut (
and those that have any dematjdt sgaiuli the famj,
as are delired to present thcit accounts for fctjlctnett
to either of thefubfcriber«
Ifaoc Paxfon,
Nathaniil lihhardjen.
'J 1 Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
ISAAC~~PAXSON,
k Continues to carry on the bu fin eft at the ufusl
place, No. to, South Third ftrect, wher* he has
on hand a large assortment of >.ad
diery, Cutlery and Brafc Wars«, which fie wiIJX-li
Tf whoSviklc or retail, on low terms, for or tin
usual credit. He cxped* to niceitc by tlvo
vessels from London, Brif.ol, Liverpool and KmH #
)l ' a lr'.rpe addition to his prefe 't afTorrraent ;»nd
will execute with pyniluality and care any ortkri
ftolll the farmer tuilomers, and ra»f)ieiuls in
cral. / 2Manchtfter Gooc's.
Received by the latet) art ival» from Liverpool, fe- "
ver.il trvnV". - «
proachmgfjalon vvhkh will be fold very
If w i• ir ca(h oro/i a fbort credit, viz.
7.8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes -
Fancy Waiftcoatine in Mars «lU*» &«•
(jv n and folk and cotton Hosiery, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (F.ngli"') Umbrella*
Nank cn>, cotton lihkf.. Shoe binding,
N a. A cafe of pruitedMufl.net.. and a ( trunk
is s^jsssf^ssi:,
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1 7 1
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
ri \TprvpolMk will be received at theOihceof
1 the Secretary of the Treasury ontiithe expi
ration oi the IMh day of July next enfuirg, for
the fupp'y of ill rations wKUIi maybereqnrKl
frr the use of the United Stf s, Iromthe firH lay ot
oaober 1798. to the thirtieth day of September
I 779, both days iodufivi, at the places and within
the did rid herrat'er mentioned, viz. At Olwego 5
at Niagara ; a' prefque lfle ; at Michilimai.kmac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pitifbi-rgh ;it l.e Bcuf; at
Cincinnati ; at GreeHVil'c ; at Picque Town and
Loramie't Store; at Fort Wayne; at FortDch
ance ;at any place below For* Defiance on t e i
ami River to L.ake Erie ;at Fort Knox and Oua- (
tanon on the River Wabafli; at Mailac, a any
place or I.MCCB on the call fide of the Kiver Mrfef
fippf above the mouth of the Hiver 0.110, and up.
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on tfce (
east fide of the MiffilEppi River below the mouth
of the aiver Ohio tothe south. rn boundary ot the l
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat 1; at (
lCr.oxvillc, l'eltico Block Hoafe, and at all other
Ports in tfce State of 1 enneffer ; at any pluce or (
plao s on the east fide of the River Miffiflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of 1 eunei
lee, to th,e southern boundary of the ocited States. ;
It fuppliee ihall be required for any pods or (
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
(hall he furnilhed at prices propcrtioned to those to ;
the pofls before recited, as may be agree:-, oil be-
tween the United States and the contraflow
The rations to be supplied to consist of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of fork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or v/hiT-~) ptr
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( |, u ' oi j rlJl ( ]
of vinegar, two pounds of soap,. rjt ; ons 1
ono pound of candies J
The ra'i-.tisare to lie furnifoed in fuchquantities,
as th.t there fball at all t : mesduring tjie said term,
be fufiicisnt for the conlempyon of the trwps at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the ether posts, for the term of at leail three
months in advance, i:i good and wholsfome provi
fions, if the fame (hall be required. It is te be un
dertkood, that the coatriflor is to he at the ex
ptr.ee and rifle of iSfning the fuppl'.esto the troops
at each poll, and that all iofles faflained by the de
predations of a:i enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States," Hull be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depafitions of two or more perfoas of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circinuflances of the
Jofi and the anuunt of the articles for wilioh com
penfition (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is refsrved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furniihed under the propcfed co&tradt, ftiali be
ifTucd, until the fuppiies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contiaft now in force have
been confumrd
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
. march 27- aawtijjy
gA Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
SALE, of diffeient sizes, at a very large
discount from the ilerling cost. If this Glass is
not disposed of before the sth of April, it will be
shipped from this port.
For terms appiy to No. 89, South Third-llreet.
march a 6. §1 w
FOR SALE,
By the subscribers, N<■. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Greer., commander,from Bengal,
Conbfling of
Baftas, as various qualities and prices,
CcfTae» I'unjum Cloths
Sanalu Guzzeydo.
Jiumhumi Charconna Dorei
Blue Cbth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulimiU
Mannoodys Checks
Maharagonget PatflaHkts.
Ginghams Mulmui do.
Guzzenas Bandi,nnoei
Gurrahs Sifleifoy
Piniafcoea Choppa Romaia
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie R imals Perfiant of various col. j
Meek Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
9< -,coo lb. PEPPER.
Willings isf Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Ba'ea of Madraft Hkfj. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March loth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
r T"'HAT byanadlof Congrcfs polled 011 the
X 19th day of March ) ~i79B, the following
a terations and amendments have been made to
the lift p»fied on the .6th day of July 1.797, en
titled "An »£l laying dutiej on (tamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Cuftcms or ivities on
Imports are repealed.
!J.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will te allowed by the Supervisors
or InlpeiSlora refpeilively, to iny persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who nrny pur
chase atone time or procure to Ise fUmped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Piper, upon
which the duties (hail amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be presided, and Cold at
the run* prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on a< count of the
pi ice of Paper ; but for (hmped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents fore»th flcin cf Parch
ia:it, or Two hundred Cents forcaoh Can of
Vellum of medium file, which may be furnif*-
ed at the expense cf the Untied States and pro
poitionaliy for aiivleff r quantity.
Of, in until r inj handy at • :a, the
a, j and jeir aiovementiaxed•
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretarj of the Trcafvurj,
Frcfii Teas. j
JuJ! Imported, in the jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For r-aldy b\ t ,
SAMItEL HOWELL, t.
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, v
AND BY { h
SAM, E. HOWELL, r
At hi» Compting House, Cropkcd billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
Hyson, HyfonSkin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
Cbina Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattiufi, Nankeens, Caftia, large gar- en
and common Fa*is, fattin and luteltring Umbreiias,
whale-bone fiicks. #
They have alfu For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna I!anJkerchi?f«,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes. r
march 8. '
New Publication.
A Sett/Me, Seaftnable and Spirited c
ADDRESS, (
Written by a Citizen ol Philadelphia—entitled, t
" VVhar is our Situation ? .
What our Profpefts ?" [
few Pages for Americans. c
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG, t
Comer oi Chefnut and Secoud itrects,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 ChefnUt fir. T
(Price three Jixteenthe of a dollar J 1
yxtrad irom the above. c
il It Is cjlonifh'mg to hear the fx pence of war so often
urged\ and by ivell meaning feop'c too, ara'mfl our taking (
any meafurts of felf-prefcrvation —fball ve be dejirttyed, _
bccatiferve will not incur toe expense of defence. For I wv
ozv/t part, if it is neecjj'ary I Jbtrnld give one half of all
I have to five the other, I jhail not hesitate to dofo Ij
more is requifi'.e, more Jhall be given ; and if finally, /
i.'iujl give up all to prcfcrve my life and liberty, all Jhall be j
freely given. The true wealth of a natian confijls in its
independence and security, and not in accumulating gold to '
lie in ufeltfs heaps, or enrich the triumph oj a savage con* i
'jueror —At a time when has the world is rached in dire «
nnnvlftoris, when immense countries are dcfolatedandpozw
e ful nations extirpated if we escape with CXpence only,
we way deem ourselves very fortunate.
upril 5 Jt/_
Twenty Dollars Reward.
r y~*HE Store occupied on account of the United
A States, back oi' No. 71, North Water-lkreet |
was on the of the 19.1 l instant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces troud, viz.
2374 20 i Y ds -] Blue ftroud single
2 37 8 20 1 \ cord.
2379 20 J
2380 20i
2381 20l I
2382 20 I Two cord.
4383 20 \
2384 20 I
2385 20i J
Tr.e alcove reward is offered, for the discovery j
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenabU to jultice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, ©n delivery of tke
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april 2. iw
NOTICE.
r "t"'HH.EE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
X. £)cbt ot the United States ot the following
description, viz —No. 10033, 10034, and 1003J,
for 5000 dollars each, dated. Bth May, J797, and
ftan>ing on the books ©f the Treasury of the Uni
ted States,/n the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lauovef Houfe,near \b«rgavenney in England,
Esq. have betn 101 l by the captsre ot the ihip JJac
chus, from hence to London, in June last.—Tins,
ther fot-e notifies those whom it may concern, that
application will be mud r at the Treasury of the U
uited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington Ss 5 Harwood.
ma|ch u §6w
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate, of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, ftamlir.g in the name of the S-übfcri
ber, No. 5004, anddaudjuly 11,1797— the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march e 6w
MESSAGE
Of the President of the United States,
To both Houses of Congrefa,
APRIL 3, '9B
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
FOR SALE
At No. 63 North 3d flreet, at Way &Gross's
Printing-office, No. Arch street, and at the
office of the Editor, No. 119, Chefnu-ftreet
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the rcfidence of
E General John. Cadwalader, situate on Saflafras Ri
* vcr, in Kent csmnty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
- of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns >vithCow houfeß, t Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
5 granary, two Overseer's Jioufes, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houCcs, a Smoah
„ house , Sec. &c.—The whole Efiate being nearly
surrounded by water, it Acquires butlittle fencing,
3 undhas a good Shad and Herrinj*fflieiy. It is
5 conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
iSaltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
? gable river but a ftiort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the ptemi(*«s; also, a variety of «icelient fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
n The whole will be fold together, or divided into
[mailer farms (for which rhe buildings areV:onven
iently situated) as majr fuil the purchaftr. The
if Stock on said Farm, confifling ot Horses, Cattle,
s Sheep, &e. will also bt difpcrfed of.—For further
r particuiars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
•- premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
y ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
n February 24. iaw6w
: I'OR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
» K T o. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnu: ftrecr.
REPOR T of the Committee of the House of
Rcprefentativefoi the United States, appoint*
_ ed to prepare and repcrt Articles of Impeachment
j r.gainft v:ILLI I VM BLOUNT", a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, wride in (surfuance of a reiolution of
): the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftru«ftir.g them " to'enquire, and, by all lawful
u mcins, todifcover the whole nature and extent
K ' "of the oJFence whereof the (aid William Blount
" ftar.es jmpcucltc.» and who are the parties and
" afEociatestherein.'*
Printed bj order of the House of RrprefeniaXiiet
French Morning School.
G. D UFIE F,
RESi-EPTI'LJIXV informs his triends an ! the
public, that b« has removed from No. 71, I
Chefr.ut llreci, to No. 63, South Setond street ;
where he will open, on Monday next, the 16th
ind. a Moa.iiir School, from 6to 8. He contin
ues to teach every day from 4 to 6 iu the aft r
noon, and from 0 till 9 in the evening.
N. 3. Priyite Tuition attended to as usual, and
tranfla'ions from either language into the other, p
porformed with secrecy, accuracy and dil'patch.
April 12. ' *Jt 1
Ifracl Morris 1
against ) Maryland. '
ThomssMargatroyd, James Bell, ''ln Chancery, '
Marfkall andßeiijaiTiinSmith, j Marti) 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, | >798.
dejeafrd. j
cbjedl of the bill, is for the Complain
-1 nant, Il'rael Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
3 ift (lay of December, i;Bj, to the laiu Samu- '
el Tucker, for the sum of /~-ioo principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant assigned, by way of security tor
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, for the lum
of >£.3.50 that the said Tucker received of the
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
lum of £.IOO and negleAcd to take steps for
obtaining the residue, until the i'aid Downing
became insolvent.
The bill states that all the defendants are
now relidents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged ai»d ordered, thai h?
cause a copy of thil order to be inferte I, three
week? fuccefiively, in some nev.'fpaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the delendat;ts reside,
at any time before the firft day of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the cotnplaiiteats applicanoi. to
this court and of the substance and objcil of his
bill and may be'warned to appear here on or
before tne third Tecfday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a dscrec fbould not pass
as prayed.
Attest.
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Cat),
april 3 •* cojW
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for 'he relief of poor atid diftreflcd
pre'Cjyterian.n ftersand tbe poor and diftrcfied
widows and children of prefovteriau mini'fters,"
that a meeting of said corporation i 9 to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
F.M.in the second prcfbyterianchurch in the
eity of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
business as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
| ""Hli term of Co-partnership between the fub
i fcribers, trading tinker the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.andCo. expires this day, and by mutual
coufent will not be renewed* I'he debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
; Jun. to whom all these indebted.to the p»rtnerfhip,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
~ LANDING,
iFrom on board the Ship SallV, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prirne Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
Jtbfi Miller, Jun.
msrch 3 5
Alex. J. Miller C5 3 James Dr.vis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
thty have Opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South i'rent S/reet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kcceping a general af
fojtment of India, German, lrifi, French and Bri
'• tijb Mannfadlures for sale, on advantageous termr
for cadi or a fiiort credit.
February 19 §tf
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate tsfe, and at a reduced price—For
file by JAMES YARD.
, April 4. daw
TO BE LET, -^
p Andpojjejjitm given immediately,
Agenteel three story brickHoufe.
No. 7, North Eighth street,
24 feet front and 55 feet dc«p, with a handfomc
Garden. Enquire at No. iaß Spruceftrect.
s april 4 §
Just Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
f A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes Mo'laffes
■' Railing in kegs
Sugar in barrels—and
, A few tons of Nicaragua wood.
I 4th mo. 4th §iw
* ; IMPORTED,
f In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
: Bourdeaux,
f AND FOR SALS BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
' Claret in casks
8 White wine in half casks
* Sweet *iof a fuperiftr quality in boxes and baflcets
Lunelle
L ' Sauternc ( . * r
Macarty, and( Wine, in Cases.
f Medoc 3
Thtor.is Murgalfoyd,'
No. 11, Walnut Street.
lifHO HAS ON HAND,
c Bourdeaux Brandy in-pipes } latitled
' Irish market 7 «tt- . ■ r ? to
r Medoc, and SaU'crnej ines in ca CS J drawback
e Sherry wiue in pipes and quarter casks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4COo bulhels I iverpoolSalt.
marchij mw&ftf
r . . LAN DING
f From on loard the Schooner Ranger, from
jAcgusMEL,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
r. For Hale if
t SAMUEL HAYS,
d No. 117 Chefnut-ftreet.
d Wh®has remaining or. hand 6,c00 pieces 111-
d dia NANKEENS, ofa superior quality.
II March 15. d6t
j Hyson and Young Myfon Tea.
A few chelts of excellent quality, for sale, cor
j ucr of Second and Pine ftrccu. Dsc 26—cots
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, i7sß.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pnrfuar.ee of the Aft of C«r 2 pasTed on the f.xth day of July one thouftnd
ni ety-feven, e .titled "An X& laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and I aper and the
AS 1 a (led on the fifteenth day of Uecsmber, one thousand seven hundred and mnetv.f-.veM, entitled
'• An' Ael to pofipone for a limited time the commencement of the duties im poled by the A« enti
tled " An AA laying Duties, on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
full day of j sly ensuing, the ft veral Stamped Duties h«reafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Status.
For every Ikin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or {beet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or primed any or either of the instruments or writingslollowing—to wit;
Dls Cts. Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - _ - - S
Any Licence to pra£Hce,or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment «r registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proiflor, in any Court of the
United Stales, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office!, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
tlutv af»re r aid, tie a fuflicient ad million in all the Coui'tS of the United
States, for each every of tiie said offices.
Any Grant oi - Letters Patent, i;nder the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) a
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or lWpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
tiicr teHamentary inilriwrient,or fcr any share or part of* perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any statute of dlllri'butitns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dien or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof shall be
above tbe value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... -
When the'.amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
{hall not exceed live hundred dollars, ... SO
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Irfuranee or inflrwment in nature thereof, on any ship, velTel or
j;oods infurcd from one diftrifl to another in the United States, 15
From tbe United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
insurance is made lhall not exceed five hurdred dollars, - 15
When the sum infuretj (hallexceed five hundred dolla- . - 1
At»y Exemplification, of what nature foaver, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other tkan such as it may bs the duty of the Clerk of luch Court to
furnilh for the use of tbe United States or l'ome particular lUte, - jo
Any Bond, bjll single or. ptmi, foreign or inland bill of exchange, prom",(Tory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or otker obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with'the United States or any slate, or for their
use refpeCiively, ...... 1
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars. - I 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, is
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - I 7S
frtvided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at 01- within fixtv days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeifl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolla-rs, - j 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hund-ed dollai s, I 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars# J 20
If above one thousand dollars, - - - 30
Any Notes ilfued by the banks now efUbliflred, or that may hereafter be eftab
"liflied within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual companion, of one per centum on ti.e annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpetfively, according to
the following scale.
On all notes not exceedisg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - •
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one bandied dollars, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - • - - - 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial afl, ... - 25
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa.or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed ift the late war, ( - - . 25
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cufloms or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding tw<> thousand dollars, %
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftrifl to another diftritft of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - - ro
If from the United States to any foreign port orplace, - -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or cfTt-<sls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or faxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Infi.rance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
II above twenty dollars and Kot'exceeding one hundred dollars, - ro
If above one hundred dollars, ... s^
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents (or one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforefaid will be and r«ceived by the Supcrvifors, Infpe&ors aud other Officers
of Infpeilion, in the several Diftridb, Surveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
pcrfons as fliall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diliridls for
thatpurpofe.
The Supervifers of the several Diftriils will, prior to the firft day of Ju'y ensuing, and as soon ts
may be practicable, markorfiamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parceU of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n,ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the ratea prescribed bylaw, Vy application to any Supervilor, Infpeitor, Officer of
or other ptrfon appelated for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflriiis
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and yeir afiovementinjed,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
Red Clover Seed of the beflt quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glafa—all of which will be fold
on v«rv reafonabie terms, by
John Craig,
march I wstf No. ia, Dock Stfeet.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agahifl
the efiate of Will am Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceaftd, are requeiied to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; jnd those wJio are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO, DOBSON, )
No. 25, So. Third-street. > Mmw 'J ir r
January 4, , dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-ftor'es of Meflrs. Dob
son, CAMPBtLL, Young and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting ®r Bilious
Fevers. *
To -which is annexed,
AN ABSTkACT of the opinions ami praSice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting int6rcfting fa<Jls and refie&ions relative to
the Synochus l6ieroidcs y or Yellow Fever, which
has occafuned so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in ieveral of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of FhyCcians,
and Member of the American Philoiophicxi So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§1 —*3m§
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
infl. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN'? Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secoad-ftreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, >vhere check books are kept lor regifVer
ing and examining in thele, the City ot Wafting
ton, No. 11.and Patttrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wjiere tickets maybe had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law ia any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The bufinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcosnting Bills and Notes of Hand, Tale of
Lands, House*, &e. iip. will beduiy attended to,
by WM. LSLACKBURN.
, Novepiberis. §
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfcribcr, propoGng to contra# hit busi
ness, offers this Estate for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately buik for the purpnfe of calling Cannon
for this State.-—There are about two thousand acre*
of Land, one half of which isunder wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannta&Mred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of ftxty-nine gun*
lately made, although some of the 94 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ*
ation ts very eligible, particularly for this branch of
maoufa&ure.acid a place of arms lying in the Gate
of Conne6ticut.. and only 30 miles from several land «
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfalt from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchafrr can beaccnmmodat
ed with all theftockand utensils, and have pofTcfiion
on or beiorc the fir/i of June next, aifid preparation,
may be madein the mean time for going into BlaG im
mediately therealtcr, for every part will be delivered
in good order, wth fomc coal, Ore, Sic. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the
id Congress lor tij is Stale j Mr, David Warerman, oij
theprenkles, or iothepropiietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILaON*.
Dee. 1. gawif
Notice. "!
A Mtinufaflory of yellow and delft tuare,
Such as never was in thij Country before, lias been
been lately ere&cd at Tivoli, Red Honk Landing,
onthe haft Maiik of Hudfon'a River, rtare of New
York, where jiiy article of various fori* arid shapes
may he executed, as well as eanhern Itovesupon a
new conAtuflion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron Doves or open chymoies;
they mebciidestary whoiefome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted 1 fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaring part of the said ware. Generous appoint,
menu will be given. A pply at above, or io
DAVID BROO.KS, Eftj.
No. 71 Street/
Feb. 19. eod 4 w
Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge and convanient HOUSK, in or near
the icntreof tin city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or on
more for a longer »urm. Inquire of tlu Printer.
Od. 17- ewf 1