cf and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Nvmbex 1724.J
. For NEW-YORK,
S A R*A H,
Captiin Coom.
FH.EIGM 1 will be taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. j
For NEW-YORE, •
The finenrvr, fad failing Moop
CONCORD,
Stephea Cahoonc, majhr ;
•*WILL take freight on very
moderata terms; for which, or passage (having
elegant accommodations) apply to the matter on
tioard. at Clifford's wharf.
march 16. «<t
For Sale,
ißiSjk HARRIOT,
lying at Ri.ff l's Wars
Burthe >-7 t-jii' thre years old, built < ftne heft
materials and i= we.l found—would a'lf.ver well
for a coaster, as (he has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney £sf Smith.
nsarck 1 S_
i oi*j B< Ron,
c The Ship
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majltr.
Jjjl' l o fail in a few days ,
As.)' freight that may offer,
will he taken on vsry mo leratr terms , for which,
oe- paffagii, apply to the Cs"tiin, or to
Isaac ft amy, jm.
i, Souih W ter- f*rt
jrareh it. § M .
. j QR SAl pr -
TBI >&I«
Weft ind an,
— .' s V . ' Philadelphia built, live oak end
cedar, is coppered, (beathed and bolted, j yaws
c/d. fails remarkably well, carries r 5 < t6oo bar
rels—now lying at So«th-flr«et wharf, ready to
k«d PKTER BLIGHT. ,
march S. §tw
For Hamburgh,
THI IHIF
Dominick Tirrt,
Ji«o* Di>akt»
■ ' Having gre..t partof her cargo en
gaged.—For freighr apply to
JeJfe & Rtbert Wain.
Febimary 16 4
Nicklin 14 Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Sireot Wharf—
NATS FOR SALK,
5S hhds.of Jamjica Rum
Madeira Wint in pipes and hhds.
Tenerlfie 'o. in p pcs .
Old Pot do. in hb s. ,
Tmpcr.gti-. .. . «rm»ns
Silt Cahvaf". Tlli. 1, W X -
Dimities. Ginghams, and Moflinets, ia packa
gi-s suitable for the Wefi-lndit market
Nails ifforted '
BU' k quart hottles
ware in hbds. and cratea
Yellow' ocb'rr fry in casks ;
And at New- ork, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool expedited round
as soon as the navigation is oyen,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spmifl) Brown 1
Venetian Red
Purple Br iwn ! PAIiTlJx e
Patent White } yAlNls
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Colcr.tbar vitriol
160 bundles Shesthing papor
{Seaming Twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazcn.
N. Tbelate firm ef Philip Nickliu & Co.
ta now okaogeH to
NTCKLINCrf GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
i ? or Sale or Charter,
JLjjfeK. 7he Snotv .
GOOD HOPE
Will carry about i»oo barrels, and
''ready totakein a cargo. For terms
Pragers £jf Co.
No. ij i, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lifcon, and Teneriffe wins. n ,
November 7. dtf
The Coramiffioners
FOR carrying into effeA th« TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits, a»d
Navigation, betwean HisCatholie Majesty and the
United Statts-of Amirica, hereby give information I]
to all Persons therein concerned—That in order
to terminate all differences, on account of rheloff
es sustained by the citizens of the United Stales, in T
conl'equence of their Vcfle!s ;nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subj«as of His Catholic Maief- at
ty, during the late war between Spain and France, 'h
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
* tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all ''l
complaints and applications, authoriied by the said so
Article, durt'ng EiciiTtEN months, from the day _
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as come bifore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
quafiion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten teßiaiony, authenticated in such manner as
they fiu',l thiuk proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Co»ur:jf!o»ert t
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Office, h'o. 109, Mulhrry-
Jrttl, May 1 pi>, 1797.
t # Feb. i 6, '98 —Jim
. Tbttft Printers in tie federal Staffs nit fmblifi
«hrt r «*nt hji Spring, are to
rt-p-M'Jt :t lie mnti, tndfttd tleir «*e;n.V L F. L.
PHILADELPHIA:
i
, To be Sold at Au&ion, ,
On Thursday, 22d March, at 7 o'clock in '
the Evening, at the Mir.kaut'a Coffee-
House Second street,
if A HOUSE, to|et!.cr irltk the Let
-Ll- tnereto belonging, in the sltyof Burlinjr
t|jn, Nrw-Jerfey. Tlie honfe Las iferrr wmi
below, and three chambers :n the wr>per Aery.
Jhe krtchen a<ijo cms is a Tiling. rh«
Loi Sat a f rs nt.*f 71 ftet o* Toarl-flreet, and
op the fame (Volt on tin river Oelaware. The
length of the Lot i« al#>,it ijn feet -Th« hosfc
. . Commands a very pfeafant prcfpefl of the river,
' * nd thc B.'n, *h of Briflal, „„ the Pennsylvania
nc ? or ** Immediate p.ffeffion raiy he h» fl . For
further particulars, inquire of Vlr. Jehu Sims,
next door below the City r avera in fhiladcl
pkia, or thefukfcriberin Bu.iingten.
Conditions will kemarieknown at time offale.
THOMSON NEAAE.
Bur' ngtop, March ,7. j,,
Virginia A-aucfsT
_ Ok Tuesday the aoth inft. will be fold for
ft Cash, by Public AuAion, at the Mer.
=il chant'a Coffee-Ho*fe, at 7 e'clock ia
"• the evening,
nPHE following bodies ef Land in the State
•*- of Virginia, viz.
«3,«i0 Acres Stoate on t.ie waters of Big
Steer Creek. 6
16,99s Aeres ea the waters of the Little Ken
harva and the welt ferk of the Monongahela.
Acres *sn the waters ef Burhannojs river.
I*articular delcriptians of the Lands, and an
r. examination of tke titles may be had by apply
ing to
h r ' Fottman & C». Auctioneers.
M "<* >»• dttom
Will be fold on Wednesday the
lift of Ma'ch, a» f o'clock in<Hht evening, at
j, the Merchants' Coffee House, for ea#i,
AGREEABLY to the last will »d testament of
William !'eyfhasn, deceifcd, and poffeffio*
fiv* immediately, a valuable property in \rch
reet, between I bird and Fourth ftrects, eonflfling
• ( the Hoafs Ne. toy, wiih the Lot 00 which it
Wane's, a Stable and otker improvements. The
r « house is 1 feet front and con: aim ten good apart
m:nts. Thc lot is of tke fame bread has the koafe,
0 a«d 10$ feet with awII of water, and a
* very capacio»> walled cistern, both with pump, in
complcat repair. Thc lable ftandi on the re r of
th» lot, and will actommodatc four korfes and a
carriage. This property enjpys a perpeteal privi*
iege of a *6 (eet ceirt and aa alley 8 leet wide, ex
tending to Cherry (Irett Its central position, and
advantages it possesses with rcfpeA to free ven
tilation, tenders it well worthy the attjntion of
SII T H'rf 1 ■ W'lhing to possess an eligible property
in Pkiladelphu
Rtiert HejJham, tr 1 A&ing
Frantit Bnwet Sayre, f Exccutora.
CONNELLY Co. A,s'rs.
N. B. The hnu* will be open two oay« previa
tot e file for the iafpe&inn of thdie who wiih
- —$tnft
On i uelilay, the 10th day of
• pril next, a, 7 o'clock in the evening, st 1
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
s Phl'ade phia,
WILL IK r „t,lir Wrtluxmrn
TT tiacH or (fircen oT-nrrtd-nnnmrnrrmnr- -
townlhipin tk« roanty ef W-n thnmberland, and
tonUiniap in the whole p* t inflfan 1 seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acres aid three quarters,
with the afual allowance so roadt.
Terms of faie, i-j of the purchase money on
the execution of the deed, i-» in three moaths,
! and I-,? .in iix months, in good nctts or other
[ approved fecari'v
CONNELLY £sT C.. AuS.
March iivm rftioa
I 'HE term of Co-partnerihip between the sub- J
fcribers, trading under thc firm of Jebn Mil
ler, jnn. and Co. expires this day, aad by mntiial
confenr wiH not be renewed- Tke debts and con
eernspf the fame will be fettled by Jobn MiHer,
Juc. to whom all those indebted,to the parroerfhip,
are earnedly requeiled to make payment to, with
oat delay.
JOHN MILLER, J„n.
ALEXANDER J. MJLLER.
February ry f tf
LANDING,
Fro» ea board tke Ship Sally, from '
Calcutta,
i too bag* prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
jo bales low priced piece Good*. C
John Miller, Jun. c '
»ar«h $ i
FOR SALE, bt g ;
John Miller, jun.
N«, 8, Chrfnnt-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WRIII Alt
Garrah* Msmeodies
Baftas Sannas
Guxxenas Tanda Coffaes
Guazies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Haadkerekiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures ef Pataa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum. F,
February 19 J
Alex. y. Miller f James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlliie under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Ss* Co.
IN 1 ORM their friends in town and country, that
they ha*e opened a Wholefrle Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frent Sircet, Philadelphia j where
they now nave, and intend keeeping a general af
feitment of India, German, IriJL, Frenth and Bri
tiji Manafa&uret sot sale, o* advaiitag«ous termr
lor cafli or a short credit.
Febreary 19
St. Croix Sugarji
iS'hogJheads best ST. CKOIX SUf;AR, !
for sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Fcb '9 f rn .*»«'f ]
FOR SALE, ]
400 barrels BEEF. 1
Enquire of
George Penned, or J
CiJ. Hill Wtlls.
mar.h 3. 1
c»tf
By John Fenno, N 4 - il9 Chejnut Street.
. LANDING
in Fram an laard the Schooner Ranoh, from
e«-
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Co3ce,
•® l Par SmJe i,
>8- SAMUEIy HAYS,
m * No. ,i»7 Ctve&iu-llreet
!7" Wko has retraining oil hatul jsicces la
j
I* Mercys ■>, , " dSt
S fc JUST RECfiIVEi>T
cr »aon ro r T-* »'r aln cr,
rl ; > And fOR SALE, by tb, SUBSCRICSRJ,
'or 11 o hhds. Coffee
46 fier-ces do.
el- 100 barrels do.
100 bags do
ile. IJO hoglieadsof MufcovaUo Sugar
80 barreisof do.
40 hogfcradi of Molafies
4 bale* of Cotton
2 feogfieads of Cocoa
or WILLINGS FRANCIS,
!** Penn-ftrect.
ia j
Landing from on board the fliip
ite Tennelfee, capt. Soiith, from Hamburg,
An-1 SALS by the Svsscribers, j
! ' e 3 2 5 pieces Quadruples Silefias
49® tie. Platillas
ioc do Creas
5 1 do. do. ila Morlaii
I ©<» dff. Dowlas
111 *3 do. red striped Arabias
>0 'o. blue Oningas
103 dozen, bordered. Handkerchiefs
Eric & Lewis Bellman*,
Seuth f hird^lree*.
ALSO, ON
c A oafe of printed Mafia's aad Calicoes
»t mil c.i 1 t. t g t
of Frclli Teas.
ig Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
• l Captain Coeper, from Cantos,
lie And For Sdle. li
SAMUEL HOWELL,
e i At his Comptiag Houfc, No. 54, Chefaut-ftrect,
.* , aito er
,n SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Ceeipting House, Crooked lillet wharf,
i. Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
x- Hyson, Hyfoa Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALS«,
a- China Wafe, asserted j black and coloured Latc
of firings and Sattiu., Nankeens, Cassia, Irrge garden
ty and cummon Fans, fattin aad luteftrin| Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
Tiiy hunt alf, Ar Salt,
I. wide Pertans. Bandanaa Haadkerchlsfs,
French Cansbricks and Umbrella., Sigai in boxes,
march 8. 1
>■ _ - _
ft F tomorrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
J Jeues, from Bordeaux,
, t Claret of superior quality, viz.
y MEDOC 7Of the vinHuresof r.ao aad lift.
LATOUR/ in cafe.
• ALSO,
n wriTTTTt "•■Mil,
d so« sal. nr
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
s, march 7. $
FOR SALE,
8 BY thf sV'Bscrisxrs, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
Joha Grsco, commander, froai Bengal,
Cunftjlitig of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
~ Coflaes Punjum Cloth.
I Sanaht Gu?zeydo.
1 MumbHißj Charconna Oorca
Blue Ckth Tanjibs «
, Chi»»z and Calicoes Mulmnli
, Mamoodys Checks
. Maharapongee Patna Hkfe.
Ginghams Melmui d».
Gurzsnas Baadannoej
Gurrahs Siflerl'ny
Pinisfcoe* Choppa Komal)
. Salgatchys Sooiy do. ,
QilTie Rotqala Perfiant of various coj.
Metk Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
9e,c00 lb. PEPPER.
Willing.l y Frantis. «
The Piece. Goods c
Of the are now open to sale at that f,
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-ftreeta.
, Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. ofele- si
gant pattern and best colours
February 8. d t f f ,
ROSS b 5 SIMSON, I
HAVE FOR SALE, t
A few bales Baftas, Coflai, and s
a quantify ef Bengal COTTON '!
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes j
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, ( RUM. !
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, sad ic
A parcel of Ihip baiiding REB C£»AR. f!
Ofl it. r
— !_ r=
Landing P 1
Fram on board the Sno-m Maria, from Capeti- I
hagen, -
A few Tom Russia Clean Hemp
3*e pieces Karens Duck
aso pieces Russia Sheeting T
»oG bolts Russia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iran B
Fur Salt by •
JOSEPH ANTHONY 1$ C. Z
lr bo bave on Hand,
iftand id pi»oef Bourdeaux Brandy as
4th prorf Spanish ditto is
New-England Rum pu
London Particular^
and C " I<leir * Wine in Pipe, .j
London Market J and l um,r Cali,li - tn
OW Claret in Cases va
»4 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Best Bcflon Beef in barrels
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do. en
i A small Invoice of Riiade-Ifland Checfe l rc
Sperraaciti Oil f re
Tanners ditto *'
No- «o t,3, Sail Duck
Kuffia Cordage, and ln
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow GJafs iVare: <1 "
March i. divr
TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 20, 1798.
A Great Bargain.
~om
WILL Bfe SOLD, jf applied f»r immediate
B I. ly, Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bill* "f
' Credit, jjpon interest it fi»c piTcaib Mfaiuifttt
now lodged in the Treasury,, on-- <udoeieu by i!ie
United States, with a pronaife to *' pay the iuie
r. ft annually " .
Io- F.npu rc at the Office of l lrtO r^EN
Wanted tu live in itu i^ouuiry,
About n»r nii:«t fr»m_ttu« city, a 6 b«; flea
day Man who wmlerftand* gardening and the
management of a few acrei of lanrf, and wmt'd
not objeft ta attend a cobpie of hm-fes Sncfc
a one Diayfiieet v.iih liberal wages by appiyinj
at the ofiee sF tliia Gazette.
N. B. Neae.itecd apply but those of une*
ceptimiabte character..
March ij. " dti
Ta be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat
two Qory brick Houfc and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, icc. tuuate on the Irtfk tra& lane, iu
j n the cownlbip of Moyaiuenfisg, about one raiie from
a the city as Philadelphia. Further particular. will
be made knows upon applicati iu at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
aS The improvements upon this place, for taste aad
elegance (land unrivalled.
N. B. If tbe above place is not fold before the
20th ins". it will thus be rented, lor tbc Summer
fsafon only. • § mareh J.
Wanted,
An adtive elearrly, industrious woman to cook
ft«d do the bufioeii of the kitchen. .Such a one
will hf allowed good, wages, and no other need ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 £
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate ef a Share In the Bank of the
United States, (landing in the name of the Subfcri
g ber, No. 5*04, and dated July 11,1797 —thefaroe
' having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march j s6w
:t, to let;
Jlnd may It entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
' Three flerie. high, and in an excellent Hand for
5 b» fu.fi. Apply to
Tkomat & y»Jbua Fiber,
march I, J No. 5, iDock-ltreot.
. Landing this day,
*' Frem on boatd the schooner Two Friend), Ban
tel Crawley, Matter,
* "'j Jamaica RUM,
FO* SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
f x*i*embrr 9. $
FOR SALE,
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
[, NFXr door hut one to the corner of Fifth-ftreet,
occupied by the fubferiber. Its eligible situation
'• well known—The rooms we fpircious and c»«-
VC J* U^ ■ 'j*' 1 *niA-rtHandiome P-iU—lr Ua.
a double Kitchen, a»d excellent Cellars, with aa
lee House and rain water Cistern, and there ie a
Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For term* apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
march ». j, w
Red Clover Seed ®f the best quality.
MADEIRA W/A'4,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter caiks.
Tensriffe Wine,
Apd, Window G!af«-—all of which will be fold
on very reafonablc terms, by
John Craig,
No. u, Dock Street,
march I w&uf
Valuable Property for Sale.
TFOH SALE, '
HAT well known F.date, called SHREWS r
BURY FARM, fsrmeriy the fefi-lcnce of f
General John BadwaUder, Gtuate on Saft'afras lli- 3
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a- t
bQbt 1900 acres of prijr.e LAND, upwards of ?oo f
•f which are in woods. Tlis Buildiugs are a)l e»- -
cellent, aed coafift of a handsome Dwelling Hi_ufe *
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpacinus treading floor under covet 4 , a
granary, ttvo Overfeer'* houses, two ran
ges of two ilory buildings for Negroes (one of I
them new altd of fcrich), Corn houses, a Smoak
hcule , iec. &c—The whole Ellate being nearly
furrou»ded by water, it requires but 'ittle fencing
and has a good Shad and Herringfifb-ty. It is
conveniently fitjated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market-, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
»a large Peach, and two large a* pple Or'charde on
j.~P T enufss; alfe, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom
The whole will be fuld together, or divided into
fra let farm, (for which the buildings are conven
iently Ctuated) as may suit the purchaftr. The
on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle, ,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofedof Por furthir '.J
particulars apply to Gzcrge Hastings, on the v
I prermfes, or to the fukftriber, in PkiUdelplria
ARCHIBALD M'CALL,' JWN . -
_ February 14 t ,„6w
Bafkenridge— for sale
- la
IT consists of 910 acre., Jmoft all of which is h<
a fiae rich Mea<i»w, (the reCdenceof the late lo
Eprl of Sterling) . It may be conveniently dixided A
into five tarms, lour of which are bounded on the re
Eafi by the river Pafaick.
1 h«r* are 03 it a number of buildings, fprmino
afqaare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house 7
is a v«ry convenient One and,a fnmll expense would
put it in complete repair. -r
The orchard consists of 1501 finsbearing en°raf- \
ed Apple Trees—and there is ofi other p*rts of fai l Sr
trail near 300 other Apple rr L e»-a, also a great au
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the Ti
best and kao& delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotic, and in''
Forell 1 retvs, that add to tha beauty and eonveni- to
ence c.f the plate. Its situation is about t8 miles tir
from the towns cf Newmk and Elizabeth : 10 do. rie
from Morris-1 own, and 11 from Springfield It Ui
is Wooded ana watered.
• 1 °n tiVC ,ro *^' e » £hc F r ' cc » five pound pr. acre fei
m cash, on delivery of the deeds. Pleafi; to .n- cii!
l uif « °{ C. IvIcEUEN & Co. La
_ , Ne. 78, Chefnut tree:, by
I a. ea ,j- { . '
1.1 I i K „M.-A M 94 *iM ' ' t'..—
A Gardmer—a Single Man.
e None n#«d apply, uakfi h. can bring good r»~
of, compcryV'ws- ~ T ..
r, Knquire at Nl. 30 Marfcct-ftreet.
ic r.u-:h I". jw ■
e " Jiifi toW, and far Stile st tic BuolJ'.ort cf
K ' YOttNC;
No. 5* South ?r*ocd (treet.
A Ct Mf**T£ Htsrt»sV OF
CONNECTICUT,
1- civil and rccr.c: AsriCAi.,
if From the eisigratiori ei iu trrt plsnjeri iroinlln
d «!»• <1 in i«-«, to M?tj. 1
b By UNJildtS TXUUBDLI, o o;
g TOLUKt t. ■,
"rjbelliSis ! vykb a Map of the Stst«,and
t . Portrait! of tuas oi the firtt fcttl«r», iron origi
nal paiutiiigs.
• larch r.-. *r6'j-Jr"
Ran away from the fubferiber,
on the J4th inlt. two indented Irish Servant Men :
Thomas M'Guire, ahout 25 years of age. and/
feet 8 inches high, robtffL stout. and well
fbort black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
u tcmplea,; he i> B forward, deceitful, vjcious,
II anduiiprincipled fellow, anj decoyed fn m ttj,
j£ fc.-rice Jtffry Corbet, about the fane age and
height, but of a milder difnofition, a idmorcfltn-
der mate, ftort brown hair ; thti* working appa
" rflwat blue cjoch over jacket*, lined with coarf*
e brown linen, ehrck an? brown linen shirts, gr/y
f y«*i» dockings; rained t-vi'i-a grey cloth trawlers,
and ruffctt leather (hoes: they have other lJoathi»j
- whieh altogether givri them the appearance of fea
faring ncq, l ct have been brouoht up to the farm
j. ing bulincfe ; no doulit v. ill have forged pa(Te» an<i
e c ' ,all g* their nasi** and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the p»ll road to Ph lapelphia, 1 pur
cbafcd them thekfl fall of capt Rcllint, in Baltir
more. I will give Fifty Dollar* for fecunng them
C° that 1 get then, .and wiJl'fay ull reaforablc
cliaiges if brnught home, or if iepara:ed, Thirty
I Dellar* for Thomas, and Twenty for. (' fy-
ARTHUR BRYAN,
Head of Wye, 1 albot County >— March 7.
s march 14 , jawjw
Custom Hou«k,
Dijtriß of Pennsylvania, Mard 6ti, 1797,
""pHE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
-I who may have any account or kaowle 'ge of
the capture or deteation of any (hip or veflel, car
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
, United States, residing within this diftri£L by or
under the authority of foreign nations, since th«
firft day of O&obrr, 1791, ars particularly reques
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, at soon as may
be canVeni nt; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
the captain's name, the number o torn, the esti
mated value of tha veflel, if condemn'd, the eft*,
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by. or under the authority of *
what aation captured, with such observations as
may be thought necrffary upon the circuiatlances
of each cafe, in order that Kareaaents thereof may
] be tr rfmitted to the of the I'reafury,
J who i> required to lay the fame before tht .senate
and Houle ot Reprcl'entativei of the United States
.march 7. :ot
" Tending,
HI ton tALt,
The Cargo of the Ihip Fair Americsm,
9a.iwi* C%< kw, maftti , fur.r ik«v mow Iv
ipg at Bell*« wharf,
or
MolafTes, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Voodj
Apply te
ISAAC HARVEV, jvb.
- 6. 51W c, South Wat»r-P.re«:
FOR SJLE,
By WHARION y LEWIS,
N« 115 South Profit Street.
A quantity of Tannrr'iOil,
4th proof, Jamaica Rum, entitled to
Id *nd 5H proas Brandy, J drawback.
Madeita Wtue,
Juniper Bsrrioc, &c. fee.
. *f*>: 9-_ i _ eedtf
THE Subscriber informs thcTie
to whom he is indebted, that a pctfon will
attend every <iav, Sundjya excepted, until the ift
ot next, from the hours of 10 o'clock in the
morning till » o'c!6ck in the afternoon, at the ho E f e
formerly occupied by him in Chefust-ftreet, for
the putpole of (hewing,all books, papers and let.
teriTfgardmj.hit pa a co*wt>< T cial tranfaSions to
. of "? cr « d ' t " r " M may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march r - cot IA
James C. fcf Samuel W. Fisher
JT THEiR STORE,
No. : i 3 , corner of Arch and Front street.
r/trt for t.tiE, '
Cotton and worHed H,-fiery in truat,; afford
Afewba.es red, white, and yellow riantxd
Ditto fu.ty roniall Handkerchisfs
Ditto l'ullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafe ditts
•Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests bed Hyson Tea
4tf>— ljtx> box s best l.ondon U'jsdow GIA
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and it hhds rIX
Wareafforted which they w,lldif/ofe of'che .pt
than any in the city. "o^per
Nov 18
,^'awtf
A Garden to be let
FOR. a term of years, fitmte about a'mile from
the Ccurt-houfe, contains ahout twn
land it a high Rate of cultivate. , )t[
house, is created en the prcmife-, about
long, with a lodging room, and feed loft abovf
A considerable quantity of ki;ci. en article,
regularly difpyfed of on thefpov '
march I2 fnqUir,:atsl ' S °« hS «o»d.ftreet.
Lottery—No. II
W'inft" tE £1"? ™
Srv " D "Uars, at Wm. BLACKBURN
aud Brokers Office, No. 64, ioutl, Seeond-ftrS
' *ckets in the Schuylkill iiridge Lottery, st «-
w check books are kept ior
S an< J examining in these, the Oitv o> w,n,
ton, No ll. and Pattcrfon Lottc-iss »nd iV,f
t.on whjrc tickets maybe had in mr'ft oftbt Uitt^
by , sw in any of the
N. B. The b*fincfs of a Ronr»» V >
felling all kinds of Public Stock an"
ciifcojnting l-iils and Nctes of Hand a 7
Land*, House., at ,' rdcd «
KorewWr,,. WM -
[VSLUMS XIJI.%i)c oasc tte«
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, 10.
Fir the Gaze-tti tf the United States.
Ml. Ft N NO,
In my last payer' I promised to endeavor
still lather to confute the idea »f our pre
tended fubtniffion to British injuries, being
-the true cause of the present behaviour of
France. I have to regret that my want of
kifu>-e does not permit roe to enter extensive-
Iy upon that subjeCt A dilmiflion from of
£«e has hot enabled me to devote my sole
attention to public affairs ; and had I ever
held an office, I ftiould nut have been base
and treacherous enough to prostitute the in
formation I received from it, to the purpofc
of destroying that government, by whose
patronage I had been supported. In these
refpeCta, the American merchant has an hon
orable advantage. I asked in my last paper
if the tamenefs we are said to have displayed
towards Great Britain was the real taufe of
French hunility, .whence it proceeded, that
the other neutral nation* are placed in the
fame predicament with ourselves ? I will
now fay noth'ng of the faith of a solemn
treaty by which France was bound to us and
whereby the conduCt fce ought to have pre
scribed to hcrfelF wa* clearly designated. I
vriil fay nothing of th« injuitice of picking
»kc of a pockets becaufc the other
his ttready been robbed, and beeaufe he did
■ot immediately take vengeance on the thief.
I will nut retort upon the claims of grati
tudewhich (hehas so magnanimoafly advanc
ed, the obligation* (he lays under to us for
the anticipation in the payment us her.debts
whereby her armies *t a most distressing pe
riod were provided for, and her rcfources
increased ; but if such were really her mo
tives, I will only a(k wherefore it i* that a
much greater tamenef* toward* herftlf, has
not produced upon her counsels the fame ef
fect as a lef* degree did upon those of
Great Britain. In order to afcertaiu this
ft(t it will be neaeflary to bring into view
the circumitances under which the British
order for the seizure of our veflel* was issu
ed ; the elfeCt it had upon our conduCt and
the fubftqueut meafurcs of France.
The order was iflued immediately after
Great Britain must have heard of the arrival
cf Mr. Genet in this country, of the ac
clamations with which he was universally re
ceived ; cf his fitting out American priva
teers manned with American seamen, in wr
ier to 3nnoy her commerce, and of hi*
claiming a right tfhder the treaty to do so.
It was soon after Mi. Jeffeffon's report ap
em our commercial relations with foreign
powers and Mr. Madifon'* commcicial re-
Solution 3 founded upon that report whereby
our trade was to have been placed in the
hands of her enemy almost to her own ex
clusion. It was while oar citizen* in the
public papers, a?Td in their meetings, were
expressing the most pointed disapprobation
towards the combined powers and the most
livuy detronftrationa of affeCtion for the
• aufe of France. It wa* done with a belief
rHot ifre government Rirglit
be to preserve peace, yet built as it was up
on the will of the people it could not long
refill their wlfhes. It was resolved upon at a
time when her minister here is well known
to have perlonal'y entertained the most ran
corous hatred towards ourgovernment, con
frftution and people, and therefore, at a
tin:; when the minds of her ministers must
have been poisoned by his rcpreftntation*.
These coniideratons do not indeed entirely
esculpate -her conduCt, .but it is proper to
glar.ce at them in order to prove that (lie had
no small reason to believe our view* were
hostile to her prosperity.
No fconer, however, Wa* the order known
in America, than mrafures of tho feve al
retaliation were propsfed. In the House
of Reprcfentatives a resolution for the non
imporutiou of British goods was aCtually
carried. The sequestration of Britifli debt*
was strenuously urged. The organization
ut our land force* was by all parties thought
proper,and an embargo was laid for the pur
pose cf starving the Britifli Weft-India isl
ands v hith was only taken «ff at the inftanee
us the.minister fr#m France. In this situ
ation of affairs Mr. jay was nominated as
our envoy to the court of St. James. In
the mefnige of the Prelldent to the Senate
upon that occasion he plainly intimated that
if justice was not done K> our complaints,
war ought to be the confcqueace. Under
the imprtffioii that if peace was not thus ta
be procured, a war would be commenced
with greater checrfulnefs and prosecuted
with greater vigor the Senate confirmed the
nomination. When Mr. Jay arrived in En
gland he was treated with respeCt and lieafd
with attention. A mode was pointed out
whereby rtdrefs might be obtained,, and a
treaty entered into which promised to main
tain harmony between the two nation*. If
this treaty has been in the remotest degree
the cause of our differences with France, it
has only been becanfe it secured peace with
England. I will not attempt to recount all
the injuries and insults of France. The tafit
i* too painful for the feelings of an Ameri
can. His mind turn* with loathing and dis
gust from the fnbject. His pen almost re
fufe* to pctfoioi hatrftd office—A few
of them, howevt'r, it is peceCaty to menti
on. I will not speak of the influence and
open violence of Genet, wr of the more
secret artifices of his successor. I will only
begin with Mr. Adct's manifefto; this was
iffucd immediately before our late e'eCtion
for Preiident. A more direCt atterapt to
jnfluence the politics of one independent na
tion could hardly be made by aaother, for
at the momcut when France infiided what
(he was pleafcd to call this public stigma of
disapprobation, her emissaries were continu
ally working upon the minds of the people
by deelarisg that tke only mean of cfcapit: j
ftiil firtler n-k' of her difpitafure wa* the
( dcsi<iT. of Mr. jrfferf'irf. This marnfeflo
was filled with the most infaraocs, fal.e ana
zbommabie charges not only against the ex
ecutive but lcgiflative wsd judicial branches
of our government. Atcufirinot of in "
tict, treachery, and corruption blackene
the face of the whole performance and en
deavor* to separate the people from their
conilituted authorities were visible in every
page of it. Thi* i», however, but ose part
of the degrading catalogue.
The minister who had been difpatehed for
thepurpofeof conciliation was treated with
contempt and driven from her territory.—
To the French revolution this gentleman had
al way* been most warmly attached, towards
the success of our own he had been eminent
'y service? M I No perfenal objection was
therffore to be made against him. That a
difmilficn of the minister of one country
from the territory of another is always eon
fidered a» denoting a state of the moll deter
mined enncity,'et the conduCt of France her-.
felf prove. When Mr. Chauvelin was or-|
dered to quit Englaad, France immediately .
declared war. \
Our goverament still anxious to maintain
peace sent to France a new EmbafTy. Vain
ly hoping that by displaying to the whole
world our pacific disposition some alteration
might be produced in her councils—no mea
sures were taken for the protection of our
(KiTißierce, none of any effect for the inter
nal defence of our country. The House of
Representatives recommended it to the Pre
fideat to offer to place her in all respeCts u
pou the faftie footing with Great Britain ;
to give to hfr the fame commercial privile
ges ; and to make no difference in the po
litical relations in which the two nations
should stand to ourselves. By doing so we
were to surrender any advantages secured to
ns by the faith of treaties ; we were again
to submit to all the pretended degradation
which the treaty with Great Britain had
already hrought uj on us ; and we were to
counteract any power given to that nation
/if any such had beer given) whereby flic
might injure France' by givng the fame
power to France with which to injure her.
Whatever ftreHgth had before been given to
our connexion with the one, was then to
have been equalled by Our treaty wieh the
others. Had not the Republic been actua
ted by the wildest ambition and the most ifi
iquitious fpiritoffelf aggrandizement, thtfe
concefßons would hive done more than fati*-
fied her. But the rulers of her country
hare it seem* without definingtheir expecta
tions, without informing u*to what extent
even our degradation was demanded, again
To what grtaterlerigths they could havegone,
I have in vain endeavored to conceive. Was
it expe6ted thatthe representatives of the ma
jesty of a free and independent people would
enter the presence of the French ufiirpers in
the fighings of penitence and the moaning*
of dtfpair? Our tears of contrition would
have only caused laughter,' and the mean
ness which prodnced them would only have
caused deserved contempt.
That we are now reduced to the most aw
ful situation by the ambitfoti and violence of
Fnnce aided by, thtf efforts of her faCtir>us
and snprfiii'ipt'ip a '' t '«» n * oKneidy
to allow. But we rauft not fink under the
evil. It ia one of those cases in which ex
ertion is the only means of fafety. If we
can aveid war with honour let us do so ;
that it is enc'ompafTed with danger and diffi
culty we well know ; but that it is often the
only way to avoid greater difficulty and
danger the principles of human nature and
the hiftorv of mankiad will prove. And
here let me observe that it is not by con
stantly holding Hp to a people the falfe i
mage of their weaknef* that they ever can
arrive at greataefs or glory. By degrading
them in their own eyes their spirit of enter
prize is extinguished, their faculties become
(hipified ; and it should be recolleCted that
with nations as with individuals the meafiire
of their power is unknown until it it called
into aCtion. It was Roman fortitude that
established Roman independence. It was
by overlooking small evils that file was en
abled to smile at the attempts of her ene
mies at length to overcome them all j and it
is only by (hewing-to the world a firm de
termined spirit of refiltance to oppression ;
aa unlhaken resolution in support of our
rights to part with life, fortune, and fami
ly ; it is, only by the real patriots of our
country binding themselves to eaeh other
by all the ties of common interest, affcCtion
and danger that our liberties can We once
more secured from usurpation.
Let then the " American Merchant" and
his afibciates beware, let them (top ere it is
too late, let them flee, persuaded that if
France succeeds in her nefarious fehemes
they will only enjoy the sorry priVlrgeof
being the last to be devoured ; and let him
cfpecially recolleCt that when treason isbro't
to the bar of Jufticc, it has not always the
plea of youthful folly wherewith to excite
companion or to procure mercy.
MILO.
Fur the Gazette cf the United States.
Mr. Fin no,
I Canuot refrain from calling the pablic
attention to an inftanee of wickedness in the
conduCt and avowed sentiments of a news
paper Editor, more inhuman in itfelf, and
daring in its manner, than any thing per
haps to be found in the deteflable records e
ven of French profligacy.
x\«counts were some time ago given in ail
the nrwfpapcrs of the (hocking murder of
the officers and many of the people on board
of the Heimione Britiffi frigate, by a part
of the crew, corapofed fit' wretches from
duicrent nations, who afterwards carried the
fliip into a Spanish port.
The comrr.ou impulse of nature held forth
the bloody perpetrators to public abhor
rence ; ar.d it was the general hope that tke
nation to which they had deserted would do
justice to themfdvet and to the world by de
liveriW up a g.ng of v«kii.gm,rdrrers Vb« :
had inched then, wit* the.r
In one of Bathe's papers ut ,
dates, from other paper., that t < ,
one a native of New-Yorkyanornn a
and a third an Englifcman, hav.ng been ap
prehendrd at Perth Ambov, j
ledged before a Magnate that th.y
on board the Hermione frigate at the time
of the mutiny, but denied be,concerned
in the hoi rid a«», committed by a part o
the crew" ; and that they had been com
mitted to New-Brunfwick Jail. He the
dates, in the form of remarks from a cor
respondent, referring to Callender « History
of the Uniud States for e»tdenee, that tw«
thirds of the Hermione'* crew were unprel
fed Americans ; and proceeding upon this
ftippofed fact, so injuriou. to the American
charaftrfr, he puhlifhes dedarej to the
world the following abominable and brutal
fentimei.t*. , . -
" When the writer of this article " r ''
| « heard of the extirpation of the officer! 01
i " this execrable cotfair, he felt that intciile
| «' fitisfaclion which every man mud feel who
«' wishes for the liberty of American sea
« men. What buliuefs our gorernmen:
" have to interfere in apprehending the ac
« tors of this mof audable enterprizc nobo
"dy gan gnefs. We sincerely wish that ev
" ery ship which imprefles American sea
" men, or indeed any fsamen, maybe served
<• in the fame way. These men deftrye a gold
" medal or a penfton rather than ittprifon
" ment."
This wretched creature here avows the
" intense fatisfaftion" he felt f«i hearing of
a deed which chills the foul with horror.
He calls it " an sxtirpation of officers," and
" a mod laudable cnterprize." He prays
that officers who have ever impressed," any
feamtn" (even of their own country aad in
obedience totheir orders) mayallbe so mur
dered at sea, by their own men. He ex
prefles his adonilhment that the magistrates
of this country should imprison men who
have performeji furf) meritorious services,
two thirds of whom he has described to be
Americans ; and fuggeds, in the spirit of
a legislator for the encouragement of aflaf
fins, that they (hould rather be rewarded by
a gold medal or a penlion.
If it is possible to punish the savage who
ean thus lecture on the merit* of the fouleft
murder, and inculcate wickedness of fu«h
aggravated eiormity as a duty of public
spirit,, let him, in the name of all that is
due to national charafter and virtue, or dear
to humanity, be delivered over to condign
punifhmeHt. But if unhappily the arm of
the law is incompetent, let the feelings of
every hontft American be appeased by the
general exprfffioa of indignation a«d sorrow
that thoughts and principles of such unpa
ralelled proligacy <hould be publiihed to the
world in an American newspaper.
I am, Sir,
Your mod obedient servant,
A. B.
- From the Columbian Cbntinil. j
The PURSE STRINGS I—No. 11, I
Cr en examination of tie late ai.ahminc attempt ,
in CoRGIZSI, to concentrate all power !
hi the Howi J_
rMLLOtr'ciTtZEH3, j
IN my last I observed that a simple, uncheck
ed government, in which the power rtfdes in
one body only, tt in fafl nothing but a despotism. ■
If it were mceffary to adduce arguments upon '
| this point, Ict jld call t» my aid the experience
of every eenturj and almofl evry nation.
But it can fever be queflioned in /imeriea
where the Federal and every fate Conflitutien
has fohmnly efhblifbed the principle, of the ne
cessity of complex goverrtmmts, and where we
have seen and vitneffed in the example of our
allies, the horrid tyranny incident to a simple
form.
If such then have been, and are necessarily
the effeis of a simple firm of government—if
t rue liberty can tnly exifi in a nation—whtfe
Conjlitution is complex, checked and balanced—
iffuch in fa £1 has been the unbiassed opinion and
the choice of the citizens of the United States,
ought we not to cherish a principle fodear it utf
ought we not to guard with vigilance this vital
principle of our government \ onght wenottode
fend itagairflthe sacrilegious hands which would
now profane it? I cannot deubt the decifton tr
the spirit of my countrymen, but I proceed to con
vince them of the exiflence of the eonfp'tracy.
The conjlitution of the JJnited States recog
nizes and ejlablifhes three diftinS, independent
powers.— The Legfiative powers are vejledin
both branches of Congress—the Executive
powers are vefledina President only the Ju
dicial powers in one supreme Court and such
inferior tribunals as may be cfablifhed by law.
These three branches, areequally supreme in their
refpeSive spheres—they are coeval—they arc
coequal-, their authority is derived in a man
ner equally direSfrom the famefource, the whl
of the people,
The House »f Rcprefentativcs cannot exercise
cxclufively, any part ofthefovereign power f ex
cept tlipower of impeachment. Allyowers even
with refpeS totheexpenditurcof money,or raising
revenue, arc equally enjoyed by the Senate and
House of Rcprefentativcs— the house cannot raise
oncjhilling without the Senate, nor the Senate
without the House. Revenue bills mufl origin
a'e wtth the House, but appropriation adt.l may
injiituted in either branch.
Suth is the nice aejuHment and dijlribution of
power, and it mujl be manifef, that it i, formed
upon the preemption, that each orglan willfairly
exercise his own funSions and wil neither check
1 *f era: ions tr tf-rrp the powers ofcithtr ofthe
the other braruh tf . ft i, a machine whose utiftty
depends upon lie exa& audproper movement of
wry part. Evers conflruaio. therefore, of the
Conjlitution, tahich tends to interrupt this har
mony, ,to deflroy this equality, t 0 infringe upon
this supremacy or sovereignty of either ,f th,
branches mufl he erroneous-it
mufl ee fafe—it trufl contradiel the sentiments,
because Uwil, defeat the intention's of the P, O .
pic. Wherever such a conJlniSion'flail b,
fuecefsful, the machine will cease to perform its
F ' S 'Wfi f'-r examp'e, th; President
i 'lould ref.tfe ic appoint any cjf.strs asvacancies *
fjhbuld tale place, rvould he not ccMy check f
ani Mroj the of (rattan of la w eJlalhfieS by ,
! the Lcgijlalnre. But you have >» this cafe a ,
! remedy, you tan impeach and removeiim. But j
I fuptofe that Bis successor perfevert* in the fame
1 course, and so on, ad infinitum. h her, then
\„your relief? In the desperate measure of a ?
revolution. -
But fuppcfe the Senate should "fufeto a3,
and cooperate with the House? Where THAI? ,
is vour remedy?By impeachment? bo—you j
have no authority to try them. By indißment.
No—they are net amenable to the Judiciary
for their official cendufL r.
In such an event, we fbould be compelled to c
have recourse to the majacreing and oftraofing i
praSues of Mr. Gallatin's countrymen I The '
ConflUutm of the United States prefvmttfartb
and in the different bitches and, may
tin preemption never be cor.trathaed. '' i
' I
CONGRESS. <
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. '
Mowday, March 19.
MR. D. FOSTER, from the Committee I
of Claims, made an unfavourable re- J
port on the petition of G. B. Froli, and thole L ,
of several others, who seek f»r a renewal of t
Loan Otfice Tickets, Land Warrants, Lottery j
Tickets, «c. which have been loft. There- /
port was committed for Wednesday.
A melfage was received from the President f
of the United States, infbrming the Hoiife j
that he had'approved and signed the Act tor t
the fitpportof Government for the year 1798, t
and for other purpose the Ait provid- t
ing the means of intercourse with Foreign t
Nations. v
At the fame lime was communicated th« c
following' important meflage in writing.
(Seeyefltrday's Gazette.) a
This metlage was referred to the Committee r
of the Whole on the State of the Union.
The House again resolved itfelf into a Com- *
mittee of the Whole on the Bill supplementa
ry to, and in alteration of the Aft for the re
lief of persons ifli]3rifoiied fordebt—ana alter
some difculjion, the committee rose, and the '
Bill wasTifCommittecl to a Seleft Committee.
On motion #f Mr. Craik, the House went F
into a Committee of the Whole on the Bill
making an appropriation for completing the 3
buildings neceflary for th« accommodation of
the Government at the city of Washington. }
The Bill having been read, '
Mr. GaalatA moved to fhike out the c
words " for completing the building*," in 01- 3
der to insert the fame words which were used v
in the original A£t for eftablilhing the perma
nent Seal of Government, viz. " forprovid- f
ing suitable buildings for the Government of r
the United States." Hisobjeit in this amend- j
ment was, not to give any fanflion to the 1
buildings now going on for government in the c
city of Walhington, and obliges the Commif- e
fioners, under the direction of the President '
of the United States, to proceed infinilhing
them, however improper they may deem )
them for the purpose. He wished, on the con- 1
trary, to leave the Commissioners and the Pre- <
(idem at full liberty either to go on with the
present buildings, or to prepare others upon
a more suitable ana economical plan.
Mr. C&AIK had no objeiiion to this »-
mendinent, and it was apcordingly carried.
The committee rose, and the bill was or
dered to be read a third time to-morrow.
Oti motion of Mr: D. Fo sts b., the house 1
resolved itfelf info a '■orfimittee of th* «j.»_ j
pp ttia fypnrfc »|- I > nrv-. to ,
whom was referred the petitions of Samuel
Abbot and others, John Bennet, in behalf of
himfelf and Abraham Sutton, Samuel Edy,
Francis Guillori, Thomas Rothe, Lemuel
Snow, Joshua Whitney, by Timothy Wihn,
his agent, and Thomas Wells, the
read as follows:
" That the objefi of these petitioners is to obtain
from the public,, the arrears of pay, &c. due them
for their services during the last -war. Their ac
counts -were duly and properly liquidated ; certi
ficates for their refpe'clive balances, were tffued
by the proper commiffiener, and deposited in the
hands, of the regimental agents, pursuant to an aft
ofCongrefs of the third day of November 1783.
Hut the petitioners alledge that they never receiv
ed their certificates, by reason of tie default of the
' agents of the regiments, to which they refpeClively
belonged.
" The committee having been inflrutted to re
port on thisJubjefl, generally, have not confined
their enquiries to the special merits of the indivi
dual claims but have conjidered it with abievu
to all who arc Jimilarly circumflanced, and alike
unfortunate.
By the eflabl'tfbment for the army, made by
Congress, on tbei-jth of May, it ivas direc
ted, " that the pay mailer of a regiment be ckofcn
by the officers of the regiment, out of the cap
tains or subalterns ; and that she officers fbould ■
risque their pay in their hands." Every officer be
ing thus interefled in the ability and integrity of the
agent, as ivell as on his own account as on ac
count of the soldiers, was an infpeftor of the con
duet of 1 he' pay-maker. The choice was generally
good ; there were but few well grounded com
plaints again ft the persons appointed; and for those
prompt, and probably judicious remedies, were
admiftcred by courts-martial.
" At the end of the war it became expedient
to dijband the army, whom the United States
could not then pay without even delivering to
the individuals the evidences of the debts respec
tively due to them for their services.—According
ly, on the third of November 1783, Congress re
solved, " That the paymaster general defqfit in
the hands of regimental agents the certificates for
the arrears of pay due to rite officers and soldiers of
their refpeftl've lines ;tobe by them delivered to
the individuals to whom they belonged, or deposi
ted for their benefit, as the supreme excutiue of
tbejlate to which the respective agents belonged,
fbould direct.
" The last mentioned resolution is silent as to the
mode of electing regimental agents. In pursu
ance of a general order, the agents were appoint
ed by a majority of the officers of each regiment,
as in the cafe of the regimental pay matters. They
were therefore to be considered as the legal repre
sentatives of the commillioned officer j ; but the
ion commijftoned officers and privates, neither vo
ted, nor were they consulted in the choice ; they
could not of Voarfe equitably be made answerable
for the fidelity if tin said agents. Some of those
agents proved unfaithful to their trufls, and some
of the non-commtfjioned officers and privates, have
thereby been prevented from receiving thsir just
dues.
" Thequeflion now refills, whether the public
an• not, upon the principles of equity and justice,
under obligations to make good to the non-com
mtffioned officers and privates, who huvefujfered
by the defaults of theJ'aid regimental agents, the
arrears of their wages, (sc. to which they are
entitled.
" Front the nature of the contrafl between the
United States and the soldiers who engaged in the
fervKtfrom the citcumflanci of tie elcifitn of
tbe fuymijteu baiting by aSI . f , f r. ,
\ vefledexclujively in tie officers'., ■'. ■ \
pn/s declaration thai the <#<; >t /ottfa '£*' -
| their pay in the bands if tie paymafi/ rt; an .' 'f e
the circum fiance if the fame mode having be T
fcrved,'?n tie election of the agents, vubot, Xf ~
encies art ctmplaiiied of, it feertk but reaionau'
infer, that the fildtety, -who ujere exclud,<i / "
any participation in the if either
tnafier or agent, -were not eonfidered as lui vt"
afiefied by their delinquencies. " '
" Upon an attentive and deliberate confix
tioit of the fabjefl, the committee cannot find "
j-uft principles upon ivhich the public, -witbsuttn
ment, can be exonerated from the obligation ,
provide for that fuffering cla/scf citizens ■ t>l
are, therefore, of opinion, that provlfcn Jh'uldL
made, by laiv to afford relief. Great caution
on the part of the officers of the Treasury, to p re [
■vent abuses, -would undoubtedly be retjui/ite. />
is the opinion of the committee, that fucb caution
might beexercifed, andftich checks provided ai
luould prevent any great danger ofimptftjon •
They therefore submit, for the conjideration of tit
House, thefoUcnuing refolutioas ;
'' Resolved, That provijion ought to be made
by law, for the relief of fucb non-commissioned otfi'
cers andfoldiers, of the late continental army"
as have not received their certificates from the
regimental agents to whom the fame were
delivered, pnrfuant to the ad of Congress »[
the third day of November, 1793. *
" Resolved, That the officers of the Treasury
be authorized to issue regijiered certificates, fa
fucb sums as fball be ascertained to be jefily due t»
any non-commiffied officers and joldicrs, -who, by
default of the regimental agents, were prevented
from receiving their cectifcaus, issued as afire
faid.
After fomedebate, ancf having amended the
firft resolution, by ffriking out the words
printed in Roman, and inserting "whose cer
tificates of pay were delivered to the regimen!
tal agents, pursuant to the aft of Congress of
the 3d of November, which fta'.l appear
to have been embezzled by those agents, and
who, in consequence remain unpaid,"' the
committee rose, and reported the amendment.
The house agreed to the amendment • but
after some objeftiohs to the reColution, it bis
negatived 47 to 32.
This report was supported by MeU'rs. D
Foster, Otis, Sewall, Shepard, Skinner and
Varnum, and opposed by Mefifirs. Dayt ttll
Gallatin, and Macon.
A meflags was received from the Senate
informing the house, that they had resolved
the bill for the relief of Thomas Clark, do not
pass.
Ms. Harper, faun th*comraiuc« afwjyj
and means, made the following reports, viz.
An unfavourable report oh the petition of
the Serjeant at ArnA and Doorkeepers f»r aa
increase of salary ; and on a petition from the
diftilters of Providence, R. Island, praying for
an increase ofduty on foreign spirits, both «f
which were concurred in by the houf#.
Also the three following bills, viz. tor con
tinning in force the 13th lection of the aft
making certain regulations in the colleftionof
internal dtitiet ; for reviving and continuing
in foroe an aft refpefting the compen&tion of
clerks; and'abill altering the time of making
entriesjof dills. All which were committed
for to-morrow.
Mr. Thatcher reported a billtoconti.
miein force the sth fettion of the aft refpeft
ing poll-offices and post-roads, which was all#
committed for to-morrow. Adjourned.
wwnw—ii 1.11 ——a—■—
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, Jan. i.
Thirty-nine descents have been made up
on England, Scotland, and Ireland from
-ihff-iime of Talius Csefar to the expedition
of een= fiyuhc. ih,nfmo oi a c r e
have fubje&ed the people of those islands
to a new government.
Dispatcher of so recent a date as the 2 jth
ult. were yesterday received from General
O'Hara, Governor of Gibraltar. The late
information, that the Spaniards hid with
drawn from the Carnp at St. Roche, ap
pears premature. The troops ?re, however I
in an inactive, states, and seemingly have no
of hostile co-operation. The Spmifh
gun-boats very much aunoyed the English
veflels on entering the Bay, and although
there was much vigilance and exertion on
the part of the enemy, yet the Britifk inter
eftt had not fuffered materially-
It it understood that Government have
determined to abandon the whols of ost
precious conauefts in the Island of St. Do
mingo- The 17th, 40th, 56th, 66th, and
69th regiments, which formed the part of
enemy principal part cf our Malitary Eflab
lifhment in that Island, are now on their re
turn to England.
Sir Henry St. John Mildmay, Baronet, a
few days since, met with the fpllowing ex
traordinary accident, at his feat in Hamp
shire. Returning from a herd chafe with
his vicious horle Telegraph (which he
bought of Lord Villiers for 600 guinieas,)
hedifmounted,and told hiigroora.hethsught
he raigl.t now venture to pat him, and accor
dingly put his right hand towards his neck,
when the horft inftant'.y ftised it in h Jmouth
and'held it there for more than a minute,
in despite of all the endeavours ef tivo
grooms to disengage it ; the confluence
was, that Sir Henry was compelled te fuffer
an amputation of all his fingers from that
hand in the courfc of the day.
The following is a correft lift of capture*
and 're-captures made by his majesty's (nip'
Anfon of 44 guns, capt. Durham, a«a
Boadicea of 38 capt. Keates, during their
last cruize :
Le Zephyr, a French privateer, of 8 guns,
6 swivels, and 70 men, quite &ew, juit
came out on a- cruise, coppcr-bottomfa
made n» captures. , ■
, Eliza, an American ship, with a valuab.e
' cargo (part Engliih ) Retaken.
Jenny, a ftlip belonging to Liverpool, na
been taken by a French privateer, 01 14
j, guns, after a smart afliou of 4-hour*.—
• Retaken.
Catherine, an American (hip btlonging to
* Baltimore, with a valuable cargo.— Ke
■ taken. . ..
Esther, an English fi)ip> pa rt * cW
foundland convoy.—Retaken.
Le Railleur, a Frtnch privateer of 20 g un>
and 160 men ; a remarkable al in o
i rcffel i threw 12 of her guns overboard
f in the chafe ; just came cut, and msdc
e no captures ; only eight days ' a " nc, ' c '
Edinburgh, a brig belonging to '»
c with provifjons and cfcathing. f "*
f Y#ang James, a Hrig be'.cßgiv.g toUkxu by * privateer of 16 guas.—Re
taken.
A Sp»nifi» khaoaer, and three brigs, d.one
oa fhor< and destroyed.
Lloyd's Murine Lift, Dec. t.
Tl-.e Nymph frigate, arrived at Plymouth
from a cruize, destroyed three French brig?
near Bourdeanx, part »f a coasting convoy,
on the 14'ih November, and captured the
Vo'.tigeur privateer of 14 guns and too
dep.
\jt Proveyant French privateer, of 16
gar..«, is taken by the Cerberus frigate, and
arrived at Cork.
December 18.
BE ATE OF COL. FITZGERALD.
(FROM THE DUBLIN
Thedeceafed feeling no remorse for the
difbonor in which he had involved an illuf
triout family, had the hardihood to follow
the young- lady to Ireland, it is supposed
wi:h a view to wrest her by violence from
her psreuts, and took lodgings at an inn in
Kilworth. He had keen there fame days
fcelfcrc his arrival at Kilwort'n was known,
or the objeft of his expedition was discover
ed. He was obfarved to walk out in the
night and conceal bimfelf in the day, and
th« fervanrs at length noticed him lurking i
about Mitcheliown koufe 2t uafcafooable
hours.
The intelligence having reached Lord
Kipgfisorough, who had had the duel with
the eolonel, aid rc (olving to defeat his an
tagonist's projeA, he left his fat bet's bo»fe,
and repaired to Kilworth, where having in
quired tor the colonel, he was dire&cd to
the apartment in whieh he was lodged:
Lord Kinglborough rapped at the door, re
quiring admittance; the other, knowing
his voicp, replied that be was locked in, and
could not open the door, but if he had a
ny thing to fay to him, he would receive
it in writing under the do®r.
This enraged the ye ting Nobleman, and
he torced op on the door, and, running to a
caf-af pistols hi the room, desired the eol.
to take one and.defend himfrlf, for he was
refalvcd to have fatisfadlion foi; the feheme
the deceased had formed againd his filler,
and which he came to this place to pnt in
execution. On both feiaing the pifUlj,
they -grappled with each other, and were
-ftrugglirg, when the Earl of Kingston,
who had been apprized of his foil's depar
ture in pursuit of the colonel, and quickly
followed the young lord, entered the ro'om,
and finding them in the contest, and that
his son mufl lose his life from the situation
the deceased had him in, the Earl fired, and
die colonel fell.
ANOTHER ACCOUNT.
" Cork, Dtt. 10. O-l. F— d had been
tot some days lurking in the neighborhood
cf Mitchelftown, in order, as supposed,
to fee the unfortunate young lady he lately
debauched. She has been for some time
at her father's house in that place. Lad
night, at an early hour, he went to bed at
an inn in Kilwor h, requeuing to be called
when the mail coach pafTtd, at eleven. A
coach came to the door, in which were call
K and lord K , father and broth
er to th* iinh lppy ft male, with two atten
dants, all »ri¥ied"; * arm I'Hu Him g.u. J.i
the flairs, the two former went into thr
room, and the brother, it is reported, (hot
him dead in bed. They came down flairs,
and immediately drove off : on the Dublin
road they were met near Cionmell. The
coroner is gone from hence this m«rning,
but the verdift has not reached us. The
ball entered hialtfi bread, by the heart."
The lamentable fate of capt. Parker, of
the Intrepid, brother to rear admiral Sir !
William Parker, at present at Lisbon, pro
ceeded from the most extraordinary cireum
ftancet perhaps on record. In a gale of
wind off the Cape, the (hip labored much ;
and in a lee lurch, the chair, on «.Thich he
fat giving way, he fell with such violence
against otie of the port-holes as t'o force
the sash, and with it fell from his cabin in
to the sea. The Intrepid, as soon as pos
sible, hove to, but too late for his deliver
ance.
The whole of the Venetian fleet, in the
ferv:ce of the French, consists of no more
than nine (hips of the line of 64 guns, 12
frigates of 32 guns, 12 corvettes, and 18
gallies.
Lettcrfraittnr-.vfrcirfrt'Jotfh L)rew, comman
der of his Majesty's Ihip Cerberus, to E
van Nepean, Esq. dated at Cork, the
20th ult.
Sir,
For the information of my Lords Comif- 1
•Cop.trs of I have to acquaint '
you, on the »2th inft. in lat. 49 deg. 48 1
mill. N. long. 22 deg. 18 min. W. I cap- <
tured the French private ship of war L'E- '
pervier, carrying 16 four pounders, pierced I
for 20, and her complement 145 men. On <
the 13th recaptured the Adelphi, from Que
bec, bound to London, taken by the abtrve )
(hip. On the 14th captured Le Renard, '
carrying «8 fix-pounders, pieTced for 20, f
her complement 189 men , both privateers -
are copper-bo'tonned, fail very fad, and are 1
quite new ; we likewise chafed the Buona- (
parte, carrying 32 guns and 250 men, but t
carrying away all our (leering fails and main t
top-gallant-inaft, it enabled her to get oft f
after doing her considerable damage with f
the bow chafe guns, and I have every rea- 5
son to believe (lie !} returned to France, a
from htr having thrown every thing over- d
board. <J
The Berrington has been near twelve d
months from Bengal, and about ten months t
frcm Ceylon, and ie, perhaps the riched (hip d
that e»er came from India, being entirely k
loaded with spices, viz. cinnamon, nutmegs, 1
cloves, and mace ; has experienced vtA 1 a
bad weather, both at the Cape and in the p
European feai. a
Dublin is also said to be the riched it
that ever came from India : ber ear Jo con- b
s entirely of cinnamon, nutmeg*, cloves -
a id Ismc pepper. it
learn by a letter from Ragufa, of it
- j tfc ;;cth CiStiLitt-, t',at & French fquaJraii
jcr.npofwl of three tfips of «4 gum, three
c j si 96, a frigate, urtder the orders of
i Admra! Bvueys, 13 lying in the Chaoael of
j tuc THe of Ltlamotta. It hat on board
s 4000 land troops, besides a small number
'• | of. Cifalpines.
| '' I' oi:rteen (hips of the lin« are imaiedi
, j ate'y to be built in the ports of the Adria
e '• tic, by order of the Emperor."
J 1 Tiie Fi(hwomcn of Paris, we nnderfland
r exprefTed a wish to wait on General Buona
-5 1 parte, to congratulate him on his arrival ;
J but he recollefted that they had, on a for
mer eccafion, exprefTed a desire, not only
to congratulate, but to embrace Lore! Mal
mefbury, and therefore would not receive
them.
The Castle Spectre is likely to bring more
e money to the Treasury of DrurY-latie The
"- atre than any Piece that has late)^been pro
v duced. It is performed every night to
d crowded houses.
n M. Rochefoucault- Liancourt, who was
n one of the members of the Constituent As
s fttnbly of France, arrived lately at Ham
1, burgh from New-York. He has travelled
through the parts of America least known
£ to Europeans, and has aellefted much im
i gortar.t information refpedling the savage
g nations which inhabit that continent. He
e has already published a work on the prisons
of the United States.
December, 20.
a _ A letter, in Latin, was read in the Bata
- vian Convention on the 22d Nov. from the
, King of Sweden, addressed to " lie Citizens
. of the Nationtl Afftmlly t *' notifying his mar
-3 riage with the Princess of Baden. It was j
rcfirred to the Committee for Foreign As
- fsirs to prepare, in Latin, a congratulatory
t aufwer suitable to the occasion.
1 A letter from Rtjladt, dated the Ift Dec.
- fays, " When the Swedi(h Ambassador,
e Count Ferfen, sent his card to General
Buonaparte, the latter answered, «I do not
3 know him, nor will I fee him. Count Fer
-1 fen was formerly Colonel in the French
Guards and a favourite of the J«te Queen,
s he made fcveral fruitlefs attempt! to rescue
c her from confinement. It wisbyorderof tie
, French Dire&ory that Buonaparte returned
i the above answer. Qpunt Metternich, the
, Imperial Plenipotentiary, who palled ytfter
- day though Augfburgh, it expefted here
, to-morrow : his arrival in this city has, we
- understand, been prevented from a point »f
1 etiquette, the Imperial Court having enter*
, tained a wish that the Frenfli Plenipoten
t tiaries fliould arrive here sooner than thelm
-1 perial Minister. Hopes are entertained here,
1 that the Cougrcfs will become general, and
that Great Britain, Spain and Holland, will j
fend Plenipotentiaries to open negociations
1 for a General Peace. The Margrave of
I Baden has prefsnted General Buonaparte j
with a beautiful carriage. On the part of
■ the Anfeatic Cities, Hamburgh, Luheck,
and Bremen, MefTrs. Doorman, Rodde,
: and Gaoning, are arrived here. The report
of an important change intended to he made
at the Congress, in regard of these cities
is without foundation. ,
Important CalculationA fhip-builde«"
desires us to corrp£l the errors ta computa
■ tiop, of which a Gentleman has been guilty
the fubjeft of the French Rafts. Each Raft ■
of the dimensions proposed,7' o yards by 350 1
will take no less than 6,6 15,000 of four-inch ■
plank for the floors ; and allowing that the '
timbers on which the floors are to be laid, •
will equal that quantity offour-inch plank
the quantity of timber neceflary for the 1
whole business will be 44,100,000 solid feetj <
which, at one (hilling per foot, would cost 1
2,205,0®01. fttrling. When the expence of •
j cordage aad other materials, and of labour, \
are added to this, the whole cannst be eflti- f
mated at less than 4,c00,0c01.
EAST INDIES. :
ExtraS of a letter from a Briti/h Officer. «
' r ncom-le, Iflsn l of Colon, Ajiril n. ]
We are amused here with an expedition 1
to Manilla. The Spanish force there is four c
fail of the line, three of them many years f
in the country (I believe ever since the Noot- h
ka Sound bufir)efs) the fourth lately out ; i
five or fix frigates and gun-boats. They h
have about 2,500 regular troops, and per- 1
haps three or four thousand militia and ir- ?
regulars : of these I make little acconnt. J,
We can fend a force from this prefldency, j
withont tailing any frtim Bengal, that I d
think will ensure fucoefs ; so that unltfs o
peace tskes place, you may calculate on the *
expedition going forward in about fix or fe- ''
ven weeks. Admiral Raynier will by that *
time colledl his force ; and as he is always _
ready, there will be np delay in that efTen- i 0
tial department. The troops are also fta -! t!
tioned all along the coafl. It is not yet fix- ' ft
ed what general will command,—Should : c
this expedition take plaee, you may con- j e .'
ccive the mod sanguine hopes of its fucecfs. j V
The king's regiments that have been "some ; \l
years in this country, do the highefl credit ' p;
to their officers, and are in the most perfed ; n.
slate of discipline and perfedion, seasoned,
and fit for any fervicc. The corps which
lafl came out, will, in a reasonable time, be jj'
equal by the care, r.eal and attention of j J
their commandants and officers; these are,
the t2th, 19th, 33d, 78th, and 80th in- ■bj
fantry. The corps of infantry that have been J c "
some years in the country are, titc 36th, j ** l
52d, 71ft, 72d, 731, 74th, 75, 76th
and 77th, ifi the fined order. The 19th j„
dragoons are also in the highest (late of ta
discipline. The 25th, 26th and 27th light- re
dragoons, lately arrived, niuft have much
time to get in ordtr ; and the want of, and
difficulty in getting and training horses, will p r
keep them unfcrviceable for some time, vi!
The cavalry corps in the company's service
are in great perfedion, particularly in the tJ
prefidcncy of Madras : indeed they exceed
any idea I could have formed of them, both
in diicipline and interior regulation. - Am
boyna has proved a mod valuable acquisition
- and so jealous were the Dutch always of
it, that there no p< HibiKty of procur- Cl '
ingpilcts—Admiral Raynier, by perlever- pr
an anc; and iautical knowledge, fouaJ £3 it- ,
ree trance to that and inker harbors that were
of unknown beftfrc.—For some little time pr.f r .
of th« bay of and Coromandcl coast |
ird were infefted by a large French privateer, '
>er called the Modeftci of 32 guns ; file i»
However taken by the Fox frigate, captain
Ji- Malcolm. By intelligence from the Mnuri
ia- tins, a French frigate has lately arrived
there from France j !he will of coiirfe jom
nd the squadron of frigates before in this
1a- country, and now funpofed to be at Bata
il ; via in a (battered ftata. From the anions
r>r- they hare had with our (hips, they must be
ily much (haltered, having 101 l lower mails,
al- and one of them her rudder : they cannot .
ive refit but at the Mauritius, and they dare !
not Venture there, as our citizens from (the
ire Cape are cruising off these islands. Should
le- tbev hear of the Spaniih war, tWy may gu '
ro- to Manilla { but as our difpitch with an ac
to count of the war with SpaiVt'came over |
land, we hope they cannot have heard of Jt. i
ras
CADIZ, November 27.
m- This port ig again blockaded. A signal
led for the approach of a frt th Etrglilh squadron
ivn of twenty fail of the line, is now flying iip
m- on the tower. The gun-boats of Algezi
ge ras having attacked a fleet of merchantmen
ie bound from Li(bon to Gibraltar, unde«r
ns tfenvoy of two Englifti frigates, two trans
ports, the Prince William and Tartar, have
been taken by the Spaniards.
ta-
he Extradl of a letter from Brcft, dated 9th
ens Frimaire, Nov. 29, written by an officer
ar- of the cutter the PreG dent Parker, arri
>ras ved at Dunkirk, and failed from Havre
the 16th Brumaire, under the command
iry of citizen Feray.
"Yesterday, befng N ,N. W. from Saintcs
fC. jo leagues distant, drove ashore the En
or, glilh brig Diana, from the Isle of Provi
ral dence, laden with sugar, coffee, cotton, and '
iot rum. This vessel had been captured by the
er- cutter Felix of Nantz, of 10 cannons, 8
ch pounders, and two 12 pounders ; and after
:n, having run her afhere, overset under a press
ue of fail, in view of her prize, which was
be about half a cannon-shot distant. All the j
ed crew, with fix Englifli taken fiom the
he prise, periflted. The prize was afterwards
er- retaken by the Engliih brig the Stag, of 18
:re guns, ten. leagues weft of the Iflandof Yen
fvc The 2d of this month we retook her, and
of brought her into this road. We were in
!r- formed that a frigate was becalmed, and eti
n* S a S ,n Sai ntes, but we did not thiuk
u- it ncccffary to alSft her ; we value our cip
e, ture at 3 ?o,oo# livres. Ib the latitude 49
»d deg. 50 na. 20 deg. longitude, we were
■ill j chafed by an Englilh vessel, which prcveii
ns ted us from (Iranding an Englilh (hip from
of Jamaica of 40c tons."
rf " ' ' UIM.H
k, X|)t <3asette*
[e t [ II mill I 1 ■■■!! ■■MjiajJLLLIIJUtX
£ PHILADELPHIA,
lie
* TUESBAY EVENING, 20.
a Balrymple observes that " the history of En
' 7 gland is the history as liberty, and of the influ-
UL »»»->■ "pri» til- r.!U»
ift weabh, power, and above ill, upon thtbigni
f o tf of the National Churatftr." The history of
; {, France, on-the contrary, dewn to the reign of
[, e Louis XVI. it a history of the mo* gloomy fla-
very.. The condition of the people in Engiand
' been gradually smelioratipg,under CuQce/Evc
lk reigns by Dew atquifitioss gained by th: in- 1
ie fUcnce of resfon, or wrested by violence. The 1
tj dreary fervitu !e of the people in France lisd till I
ft the above period, been continua'ly deteriorated
0 f by the Hiieontraled rapacity of the monjrehs .
r and nobility. Th« last French Icinjf, worked on j
'»v Top 11 if, who, ihot>gb w in pro
found ignorance of the nature et'j liberty 1
an«i of man, and aflunted by the wnrft
imagined themselves all wife, and afluraed the
eh»r»4ters el patriotism mi of philanthropy,
•onc«4ed t<> the peeple msny vali.i|f-le anrt im- {
portant privileges. Untaught, cortupt, a prey
|(( tothea-tsof deceivers, wehivefee i theru laurlt
|r o'it in infurreilien, murder illeir monarch and
nobility, and fight sgainft and conquer their own I
rs felicity. Sunk in ignorance, and requiring to f
t- be inured in the Sril principlrj of frtc.lom, th y t
; imagined themi'clves maftera of the wiu ie vn«a
---y bular) when tkey knew not even the slphabet,
r . a»d aspiring atjwliat th«y were told wasvhe tern- r
r _ p!e of freedom, became passive inftrunifnts in F
the hands of demjgoguet who have tyrannized
o*er and murdered thein without mercv. In
r » England the natural U«i:k is prtf-rved from a-
I duiterar* contaminatiena ; and if the progitfs
fs of reafnn rtould fe far expand bntkau capacity,
e as to admit of further relaxation »f reftr#int, 0
.. there yet remaiua a foundation on which to b»ild r
j. and extend improvement!.
Such it the history of the two greatest nations
j of tile old world : with their experience'before "
°" r what materials are we *irniftiing to lj
1- the hiitorian ot our own ? Torpidity .1 tn id ft a y
. 1 slate of things the mod alarming and portento*s ; m
j j Cowardice, at a time which calls for nerve and 'j
i e ne r ffyi faAion, turbulence, insolence, doirac-
I tion and unprincipled abuse ; Treachery, con- 7
'• I fpiracy and patricide, to fill up the black cata- :
c : logue of degeneracy ind crime, will slain the
t pape of history, and disgrace the American
t | name.
.I - (
, I Mr. Joyce, watch-maker, ia this city, has con "S
e j ilru«9e4 a machine called an anemoscope, which, 1
pI hy means of a dial plate, points out the various tV
• points of the compafslrom -.vhfcS the wind blows
» I and the various chan E « i» the currents of the air ,'
• |b) art mder that will travo fe. H« proposes to n
t co"ihime thu mflrumem wi'h tn Kleflrieal t ®n
,! I o?.' r ' Kr "'''' fL 'll cr '"f <>oth in refped of its ron- »
; during quality and of it» durability to any others
which have hitherto keen '1 v«ted on the bull.:ina;s .
> in tins cits. This machine-has r*i« double advaa- tM
f tigeof >h e over which it iae
. rccted .from the daHger of lightning, and at the cI
t fame time of indicating the varicu. courses and w
{ chan.ee, of the win,'s. The gentleman who ha,
f Javcred us with this commimication. ha? been a e!l
' practical e edrican_ more than fifteen rears, has c<
. Visited m t, at time a coufi Jerahle part of th ha
. uitabie globe for improvement, and thinks it a du- as
, ty l.e owes 10 fcienee to pve kis teftimo. »in f».
vnr Of an invention at once To ufefuj and in ffc(l . P,
/\r <V r>- , b
t (If, IT* .tjidvp.J
* Sui'Jcfibcfs fur iht publication
■ under thejlgnature of &cipr o> are inform
ed that if if now ready fir 'Jh?
Pr ';cc is 25 Ccxit,
'' GAZE T1 F. MARINE LIS 7
I,
• RRITgD.
3 Schr. Return, Bills, Havannah
1 Brig Maria, Curracoa 17
Good Hope Scltultz, Naples
' Schr* Aflfve, Whitlotk, N. Orleans 19
' Pcgalus, Smith, Cayenne 25
s
Skip Arguj, Capt. Black, arrived at
a New-Orle.ms, 30 day 3.
3 Ship Fabius and Brigs Hope and Pru
, dence have avr ved at Ntw.Orleans,
c . Brig Friends fafe arrived at Curracoa.
: I Brig Rebacca Capt. Crolby failed the
• 1 fame day with the Jane Maria bound here.
1 ) The ftijp Maria, from Sarinatr} to this
> ' port, taken into Tortula by the prittlh fioop
. of war. Scourge—wfittt (hi
r '
. j S.-t/rm, { Majf. ) March 13.
j The faft failinglhip Brutus, Capt. Rich
j ard Crown in shield, failed fr»m this port for
1 Cantoa, in Chiaa, cn Wednesday lai).
We have had the pleasure ta xvitnefs the
arrival, (ince our lad, and within a few hours
of each other, of 3 of our India vessels,
capt. Barr, Weft and Orne. Capt. Orne
was difatiled on the coast in his rudder, hut
luckily met with capt. Phip;»e», who affil
ed h m into port.
" Succrfs tg ntutrtl commtrre !"
' We are informed by a let ter from the I (le
1 of Trance, dated in O&ober last, that fev
r eral American (lave veflels were detained or
- (lopped at Mofambique,-oa the esft coast
: of Africa, by tbi Portuguese government
1 there.
[ Vessels spoke.by capt. Orne.—Jan. 1.
3 lat. jl, yy, N. long. 28 W. spoke the
. Carnatic, ope of 13 fail of Eflgliih India
. men, from St. Helena, for Efigland. Feb.
1 16, lat. 30, N. long. 68, spoke fchr. She
; nerdefs, of Baltimore, capt. James Craig,
( by whom was generously fuppiied with pro
r vifiens, 20th, spoke he frigate Maidfione,
i from Jamaica, for England, capt. Mnt
-1 thews; 23 fail unde,r convoy. March 1,
: j I%(- 39> N. long. 09, spoke fcjjt. Olive
: Blanck, from Bolton, bound for Bermudas.
; A Spaniih frigate, for Havanna for Por
! to-Rico, having on board 700,000 dollars,
1 wiis lately call away 011 the old Straits of
1 Bahama—the crew aud specie saved by vef
fsii from the JMavanna.
- Alexandria, Mqrch 15.
The fchaoaer Sophia, capt. O'Meara,
) of this port was taken on the 2d day of Jan
-1 uary lad in long. 5:8, 54. lat. 17, 25, by
. tie privateer schooner Sans Pareil, capt.
1 Pillet, belonging to Guadaloupe, owned
by Mr. Sole, carrying it guns and ibo
men. When the Sophia hove to« for tkc
piivateer, the boat came altfng fide, and two
men Jumped on board with draw» cutlasses,
and enquired for tht captain, who immedi
ately made reply, and told them he was
npfter—without delaying a nioment one of
them immediately began belaboring him
with the flat fide of a cutlass on the back,
while the \>ther kept his cutlass pointed to
his breast. They would not allow captain
O'Meara to get any of his papers, but sent
him on board the privateer, where he was
detained while they plundered his cabin of
every article. They broke open his trunks,
which they also pillaged, and left him not
a fi«gle article' ef wearing apparel, save one
sea fjit. The Sophia wag carried into Baf
faterre, where aud cargo were con
e.*mned under the Invj of 1744 —Captain
O'Meara arrived this morning, via New-
York.—No comments are necessary on the
*b-y\c-h: mane and ptlite treatment, for which
he is iudebtea to the munificenti of the *en
eroui Republic !
Baltimore. March 15.
Tbc {hip Beckev, capt. Cunnirtgbata,
from this port, has arrived a: Cork.
The (hip Columbia, Bcrgis, of Bodon,
tor Baltimore, had left Kingilon in com
pany with 40 fail of other American ves
sels, but having loft her bow-sprit, put back
to refit.
The schooner Citizen, of this port, car
ried into Jaemel, has been liberated, and
proceeded for Gonaives.
GEORCE-TOWN,( Potomac) March 16.
!
Between the houts of 9 and 10 o'clock,
on Wednesday night lad, Mr. William
Hall was found, in this town, near the
bridge ever Rock Creek, beaten in a mod
inhuman manner so thai he died immediate
ly alter. A jury of inquest was fnmmoned
yedtrday morning who returned a verdidaif
mnraer by an unknown person or persons.
The perpetrators of this'horrid deed are not
yet discovered.
Mr. Francis,
SUBSCRIPTION BALL.
(The lad this Seal'on, will be on Tuefdiy next.)
MK. FRANCIS refpedltuMv informs the
Subftribers, that the 'aft fubfeription Bill
for this leaftin, will be on TUI- SD/VY th - acth
of March—Ladies tickets to be had by applying
to the Stibfcribers, or Mr. Francis, No. j, ,
North Eighth street. Nonfut.fcribers tickets
to be had of Mr. Francis, or at the Aflembly-
Room.
Agreeable to the terms of the Subscrip
t.on Balls, Mr. Francis gives one ixt-a' Bjll to
the SuMcriber# of the tw« SubfcriptUnj, to
clcfe the season —Mr. F. wilhes the S/übfcnber,
wtl! be particular in thejaft Ball ef the Subfcrip
tion, in order to make such regulations for the
extra Ball as they may deem proper and ne
tefi'ary, to include every convenience arid ele
gance wh cli they may «iih to adopt. Tuition
as ufnal.
N. B. Due notice will be »iven of the last
Prafilftng Bail.
Mai*ch !■).
TO RENT,
A good threes ory House,
Kitchen-'-M Prcr.t, p#u : 3 aih-flrert.- Enqnir*
•1 >kt l, ri::;fr. aaatjk
NKW-TIIEATR: .
Mrs. Msßßr's Night.
! TO-MORROVJ EVENING, March at,
Will hi prdCTitiirf, the Comzdrj of
, The School for Scandal.
Sir Pc;«r T«azie, mr Warren ; Sir 01: vr
face, mr Morris; Joseph Surface, rar Wigfiell;
CharloSui law, mr Bernard ; Sir Benjamin Brck
bite, mr- Fox ; Crbhfrre, mr.
Mr B'lfiett ; S:r, Harry (with a SoSg) mr I)arlcy j
Rowley, e: W>.rrelf ; Moses, mr Francis ; Snake,
mr Tiiylor; Trip, mr '.Varrell, jun
Ls (for that night only) tnrs Merry;
I.advSncii well, n:rs Tranci«; Mrs Candour, mre
Oldr.-ixr:: ; Maria, nuf» L'fcflranfx.
With the Conic Orera of
The AgreeaMe Surprize.
Sir Ftfik Trietdly, tr.r Wjrfleft ;.Comptop, rr.T
H:: ?! cy ; hir Fox'; Ohieanc, mr Wignell;
T»hn, W!f "Warell, iu» ; I homas, mr 'lVylo# j
F.rni'r - jmp rr>r Marthew ; CiidilrrtVlßr Eli>
sett; I.iwto, mr Bernard.
I.aura.- trr< Oldrrixcio ; Mrs Chefcire, rafsf.Tf
rrange; CovS'p, (with a ."'onf, for that night on
ly) mri Vary ; Friuge, mil's L'FlUangc.
0- 7 ickits to be hid at the ufisal places, and
i of N'rs Mtrry, corner ef Filb»it and EleVenth
ftrtets.
»
£3" On Friday (never perform d here) a favor
ite Tragedy, ca'itfj TANQRKD AND S 1613-
MtJNDA ; with the Historical Romance of
RfpHARI) rC M'DE LION—For the benefit
of hr».
•§* Mr;. Olbuixon's Night will be on Mon
day
f;rei£ht T,v anted.
FOR BRJtMPN.
itt&ts>v. « Tie Eamlurgh Brtg
iMtm HENRIETTA,
>- Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
"\TQW' lybg at JciTeandlt H n''< v>l.ei!—.V
xN (Ipßt, ftro:>(( vtii'cl, of about 270 to - bur*
thtn, in good ordr ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready t» go on board, and begins to load to mi tiow.
For Frtigtt only. nr.f>ly ro
PRATT fcf KINTZING,
No. 9?, North V at r-flteet.
JVit JUST IIECEJfKP, W FOx SAJ.i.
12 bales Ticltlehurgs aud Oznabxigs
» do. Patteibornes
I do bleached Hefikns
I package Oil Cloth
I theft sod S barrels Scuff Boxes
30 l.iqucr Cases
>9 ai.thers pearl Baryle, end
4 cafet ei-gait* Cairiage Haraets, Whips.
Spurs, &c.
TH ST HAT! TOS lilt
Claret in cases, Port *ine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fault botes, Rice, Britsttone TumMers, Win-'
dew G!»fs, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Roils, I'olilh Lit-ens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c all entitled to the drawback.
march so. twhuw
Law hook Si ore,
No. 319, High-ftrret.
George Davis,
TMPRESSEn with the favsrs (K wn him in hi»
1 effort* toeflablilb a Store for the (ale of Law
Baok* only, begs leave to inform the Orntiemcn
of the Bar generally throughout rh« I'niied States,
that in addition to his folicjlio now on hand,
which he supposes to be more eitrrG*-, than in
the poffefiian ef any one p. rfnn forf-le in Ameri
ca, he expc&s daily very large fupplics irom Lorn
don & Dublin, particularly irorn th»lauet place,
I.avingchiefly confinedhiiimportation, to rheft «di
tions, as being in his opinion correct with
the London copies, and well kti»wp to be inSnitc
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, fole'y to the f.le of X.aw
Bo»k», it will appear obviot<« to profeffi nal een
tlcmcn tk.e great advantages they havein put chafing
• from him, fctlh as to fe esion ir.<! mice, yf wliich
the encouragement he fias received fur several yens
part, if the best tetiimony lie can offer.
"•arch 10. 3JW3W
IMPORTED,
In the Bn'g Benjamj* Fbanilik, from
Bourdeaux,
Awn ro* SALB BY Till SDBS«S1»I, <
Claret imcalks
White wine in half calks
' weet oil of a superior quality in boxes and baskets
Lunelle
Sauterne (
Macarty, and ( Wmes m Cafeu
M«do« 3
TLomas Murgatr'>ycl,
No. ri, Wa'nu: Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourd atix Brandy in pipe, Istit'ed
Irith market ■> . C tn
Me lca, and Sau'err.e / ,ae * ,n c,fes 5 drawback
•»hrrry wine in pipesaitd quarter ca&s
Rot 1
Pimento i i
• wo trunlra of Umbivlhs, an 4
Altout 4000 bufhcls i iverpool Sale,
marsh mV&ftf
At a Meeting of the Prel'ulent
and Managers of the DfiAW.Ut a H d Scuvvlkiil
Cakai Company, FMiruiry 17th, 1798,
Rtfrlmd, f!:*t ten dollarson each fcarc'of Stock
be r»H>-.d for ; ar.d that the Trealurer
give jin'nlic notice thereof a tree able
to J aw.
Ext. dfifrom the Minutes.
C <.ORCrii WO.RU ALI , Secretary.
AGREEABLIi tua refo'uuon of ths Pr.fi «nt
and Managers of the DtUiv.r. W C*,aJ
C.mnfny, the Stockholders are hereby required to
n;ake a payment of ten dollars 011 sach, of th-ir
ictpeiSiVs Iharss on S r before the ill ol pel r M t
, „ WW. GO VEI 1", Trmfu,,,-.
Forgeries Committed.
\/\7 HKRf " A,S f * varal forgeries have be n cots
ruitted in this city by one'or two pirfoct
an.-wn by the name, of Dr. G, ant, al,a. Smith,
4 n 5 Grant generally wore a green coat,
tail in pstfsi:, and genuel, had loft one or t*o
tteth ic f-or:t > lodged, about July, 17,4, at Mr.
'.rimes'stavorp, at the Oforye, in Nonh S.-cond«
feet ; !u» friends live in Ncw-Enrland ; hoof
ed to have committed f vera! forgrries in Wew-
and i< fmi to be confined at tfee wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for Healing watch s, (lieother
is a Ihort. th.ck man, by the name of Gilbnt
ißows by Mr. Grime, and Mr. Bigntll, and leve
raloriiitr P"'fins in this city. Information .riven
fly any peiion o» the aV.cve men, to W*, Prsst
mab, K«. 15. io*th FiltlMlrect, will b; elite:, 1-
eJ 1 tavor. Gii .«.rt i.s b«tw*e* ZO and 30
years old. yellow, sickly lock.
For Sale by the Sublairiber,
Forty-nine bales of Mnfiini, being the ra
tr.aiasof the (hip India'* lall cargo f»oal
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 j'ipe9 cf finett particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Msrdecai Lewis.
Fabrory 19
il !> Hjoptug Cjughy Cut-arrhsi AJihmcs, vSfo
Waifli's Antipertuflis,
IS a fafc mi certain cure for that definitive dif- lyifu
order the Hooping Cough. The celebrity "Vtgj
which th is medicine his acquired in England, ren HoU
der»» the publication ®f cafe* of cure unnecessary Qn
t ere—but as the Antiperjtuflis has been but re- p^j| a
cent / intreJuced into th»» country, it may not be
amiiis ia publish the following cases, fele&ed from j
a much greater number, as proof* ot its efficacy* j c j a f Sj
H Summer-Hill, Stourbridge, Not. xB, 9*. j
" Sir ' , , , J rifqu
u Please to fend by the coach, a large bottle oi |
your Antipertuflis. I have given it to' the poor of 1 CCC( jj
this neighborhood, by which many have been cur- J acc
td of that dreadful disorder the Chincough, and f
in no inllance has it failed in giving immediate re-
I id. j occu]
44 I am, Sir, your very obedient Servant, Laccoi
GEORGE B&ISC0E" H
« Bach, June a, 179 | tiont
"Sir, ' , const
" The cauf# of my troubling you with this it, j 9 g X ir
shat f thought it a duty which 1 owed to yourfeli
and to foe vty, that I should mention the salutary bttrll
efFe&s that your excellent medicine, called Anti- j c j a f g
pertuflin, had upon my eldest son ; wn, about 1
two months ago, aißided with the Hooping Cough, J <
in a moll difcadful degree. My child wa» atteni- J
ed by some of the moil eminent of th* faculty here, J cce jj
who, for three day*, thought him dying ; and was I - 3 rct
givan over. At this time a friend of mine men- J t j ena
tionedthe wonderful cures that had been tfFe&ed c j rcu
by ycur rsedicine ; aud thotfgh we had no expec
tai.on that n*y child could poflibly recover, yet I g oo j
lefolvkd to try it. I did ; and at this lime, I have 1 t0 t j.
the ha] pint fh to fay, that he is quite well, not th* ÜB£ Je
kail iymptom of his complaint remaining. J etc jj
"Your'sj&c. x ther<
" JObIAH ELLIS TOMKINS." fu nc
(London, to wit.) / I inge
7 pies 1 ar»Uxy, of No. 4, PolanJ-ftreet, in j Qyinj
voluntarily maketh o*.th, ar.d faith, that his child, j arc j
» boy about two years old, was effectually 1 cored I both
ef the Hooping Coigh (which he was affli&ed j c> pj (
with in a moll violent degree for some mouths, j builc
and for which he ceuld g'rt mj relief) by Mr. 1 t;
Waifh'» Antipertuflis. ABd this deponent further |
faith, that at the time the child firll look thi6 me- J f ron
dicine, it was net expe«sled he could livt ; and that I to C(
the firft dose, almost immediately, removed some j xheii
oi the mod violent symptoms ; his appetite, J wc^j
flrcngth, a*d spirits mended every day ; I [ en
deponent further faith, that th ee or four bottles j cunl
made aptrie&CVJ'e ; and that th* child is now ia I prop
as gtiod a flute of health as it wa* before. J n
JAMES EARDLEY.
Sworn before me, thislift day of March, 1795- I ij
T bom as SkUnbr, Mayer, j ] at€ ,
gjjF It is Sold, by appointment <»f Mr. Walsh, j
by SHAW & Co. No. 119, Chef.ut ftieet. Phi- . anc
ladelphia>inbott!tsat ir dollarmUath —V» htreonly |
may be had JLozengej cj Colt*foot, forrepert | 9)
Co >l'h'itsbejci Ejfence ej MuJl*rJ, for rheuma- | tion
tifnii, grut k lumbago, palsy, numbness, Iprains, I p efJ |
xrid in boxes and bottlesat I dollar each I ncw
Oiuhneni, dn infallible cose for thfrit hatl a?
• -err" Smith's celebrated Sptcifie for the | t jj e j
Vtncreal Dijt'fe, at I and 2 dol ars the botti«— of t
(vjfo, his tffjlor'tiive {or dtAiliiatcd eonfiltv'ions at 3 I " 2, Jjf tl
i Auiifcuburitc Drops- of Ha- I
r.;v, « f < r s, colds, n c —Shu rib's Drops I p a y (
a.!id Gru'l.n d's Hctton, for tl.e face ard Ikin, See. &c. I
rr.arcl) if. thsat sat I e( j €
% City Coramiffioner's Office,
January litb, I ' anc ,
rt» T i:c INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS. I
f j IHE f >lljw;fig irrangtmrm ia made by the 1 ' ,
i. faiil coinmiiTior.crf, for clcinling the pro
ftrcsti , app
Oiflriil No i.—'From the north fide of Vine j jj, c
ftrett,to ihr foil h l.de of Mulberry firert; to] 4
be under tht fiiptrinUndjnce ol NicholssHicks. | M ai
2 Frointiie i'ovith fide of Mulbrry street, to j tht :
the f.mth fidenf finest, to be OBtlerthe J j
fu,)ennter>dan~e o'William Moulder. j tab;
3. From tht south fide of Chefuut street to j eig:
the nr.r'h fi<'e tifSpiuc* lireet, to be under the or !
fuperi'itei dance of .Jolepl\ CUypoole. I c '-
4. From fide of Sprm e street, to the I
lonth f.de of Cedar street, to be under the fu- I P er
perintcnditice of Hugh Rt bertt. j . ,
rj° When pumps are out of order south of I ntl
High nrcet, flcife apply to TJiomas Diiey, at the ,ril
corner of Sesth and Fifth-ftrset«, er Godfrey Gch- j IKH
Ui', in fteurtfc, near Chcfaut-ftrtet ; and northof I cur
Migh flrect, to Pixey and Dchavcn, in Saffafras- I j
flrfet V.tnvetn. Sixth and Seventh-ftteeta. I '
n _ 6"TTCT _
IS hfrolv given, that the S»jbfcriber, SB infol- I ter
vint debtor, confined in the common foal bf I ve;
theCou 'tv of Cape May in the flits of New- I y«;
Jersey, liaih prtTen:ed his petition to the Judges I of
of
for the said county, praj ing that they v ould I t ' E '
ittend to hear what can be alledged for or a-j
gainst his liberation, pursuant to an ail of the j
Legifhtsre of this State, entitled "an aiS for j 1 U
the relief of insolvent dtbtoil," pafled the 26th J
day of Ja uiry a" 9 B—And the thefaid court}
did ippr ißt Monday the 26th day of March I,
ijext for ttse purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the I
Court Kotrfe in the '•'iddle Piccintfl, at eleven I
a'dock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which I p.
his cteditors are requellsd to take notice.
CIIARLiS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798. ft
f'fb. 14—lawtw H
N O T I c r. f,
W HEBE AS a Certifitats to Hannah Shei.- 3
LT, of Oxted Cottage, ill the County of f
Jturcv, in Great Ci-Uain, Bpinfter, or her aftigns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol-
Jars twenty-tl res cents, in the deferred flock of _
the United Sta;es, was loft in the (tip Peggy,
Caj t. Hyer. bound from Pbiladnlpl.ia to London f
ia the year 1796. The futferi! er, the said Han- '
rah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of n
the United States, Icr a renewal of thefaid Cer- '
ti?cite. h
Hannah shelly. •
fnh.2;. Hw6w. '
Fretrcb Circulating Library. c
JOSEPH E. G M. De La GRANGE, J
No. no Walnut-ftreU, *
—— -tNTORMS those who wish to recur to the only
A means of becoming pcrfcA in the French Lan- j
gnajT,that he has just opened his Libra* y, con- 1
lifting of upwards of 1500 volumes the baft cal« j
«ulated to afford either ufeful inltruclion, or plea- {
fiure. The conditions, togcthtr with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book feller's ;
ib town. r
n. b. All tranflatiens from »nd into the French, (
F.nglifti and Spanifli Languages, execttted with ac- ?
curac) and dispatch. nsv. j
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Bsok Store, J
No. Ji.SeeorH fireet, the corner of Chefnut ftre«. (
REPORT of the Committee of the House oi {
Repr«ftntari»t?oftheUnited States, appoint- ;
td to prepare and repc.rt Articles of 1.-npeachtnent
ajjainll WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, iirpeached of high crimes and mif
dmeanors, irndeiu Futfuciice of a refoiu'ion of
the Houf» of RcprefelitativLS, authorinng tbe said
Ccmmitue to fit during the reeefs of Congrcf«, and
inPiuifing thrm "to enquire, and, ly all lawful 1
" mean;, todifcever ths whole nature and cxt nt
* ef the offence whtfrcof th« said Wiiliaai Eioiint
" ilands impe&che.*, and who are tkc eartks and '
kl affcciatestherem "
J :itfd by order 'J tie Kcjfe 5/Reprtfcxtati'vci 1
L'eeunber »o. 5 !'
ft
P°
be u
PROPOSALS, ntl^
Insurance Company of North America. . n w
Her licanANCt agamit ?'"
Hoi-fes Ware Honfes, and otner Building C • mt j a
" cooks contained i, such Building.) distant from ( , rv
Philadelphia, in tho United Sutes. Gtj
I. Common lufurancet, on hazards °'thcr
class, wilt he undertaken at apremmmof.hou
halt per cent, per annum. For «*tr.ih I
. rifqwes a larger premiim will We requir , ,
. will vaiy according to circumstances, r
ceeding one per cent, per anrtira ; but in some in
[ ftaccet, where the property tcfured wno y
itfclf extra hazardous, l»ut rendereJJJ u
by the vicinity of extra hazardous bui 1 g
occupations, the premium demanded will b . *■ -
, according to circumstances. . ■ c
Howies and Ware Houses, the walls apd parti- be.
tions of which are wholly of flonc or brick, well
conftruSed, so as to be guarded a 5 well as may be
• a-ainft £rcs led* within,, aui tree Iron? citra b-- Qf„
' aardou. and occcupatiop. in tlMl, Be^ h "
' b.rhoud, will hp deemed hazardous of .she trlt
" class, arts mafjr be insured to their fall value. r i
; Also Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra -
• hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, de- 1
' posited in such buildings, to an amount not ex- JL
• ceeding 4000 dollars; bat if more than thisfwm e d a
' is required to Ue insured in one tcnemci', an addM Vili;
' 1 tional premium will be required, in proportion to two
' circumllasees. , cent
11. lnfurances will also be made »r« bundmgsancl ,f ie
1 roods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned tirca
: to th« risque. But it is not easy to arrange thae tJ ; n
1 under particular heads or daffes, so as to de cri e j' orn
each with the necessary accuracy. Each cafe r(
therefore be decided upon according to the circum- jn
I fiances a -tsnding it ; and these circumftar.ccs wi 1,
I in general, appear trorn the dLfcriptiou accompa
; I urine the application. . . ~,,1
I B* Idings partly conftru&ed of brick or stone,
' | are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
1 both cases, the stile of building, haw they are oc- vv
j cvpied, how they are situated, the neighjormg
' I buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
•I be taken into view. And wkhrefpeit to goods,
I their'tenisncy, whether from their nature, or E
" I from the manneir in which they are sitpofed, either
1 I to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
e their liability in such state to receive damage oy
' I wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be fto- r-»-
• I len in time of confulion and hurry, are all cir- [
• j cumllancesof weight; and the premi*msmutt ue Q| k
s proportioned accordingly. BdC
111. The following conditiont are to be under- 1
I stood by the parties . qua
ifr. The Wurance is not binding till the t [, r ,
j laud premium be paid ; but it fliall be deemed C.- pec
' I feciual from the time of such payment and aeon- g u ,
" I tance thereof, whether the poiicy be immediately I
y J signed or not. ma
' I ad. Infuranees may b« renewed at the expira-
I tion of the term of the policy, without furtheret- (
I penfe« than the paytr.eat of the premium of the re- r
~ I r.ewed term, the circumftanceaeontinuing the fanii
• ja3 they were anderllood by the Inlurtrs at the time gl i :
e I '.heformur kifurauce was made ; but the payment coa
los the premium is elfential to such renewal ; and cm
1 lif the party insured ftiffcrs any time to elapse after jjj,,
1 the expiration of the former infarance, before h- f. r
~ I pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
-• j during fach time ; Bor can the infurauce be renew
[ed on the former policy but by computing the ;
I commencement of the renewal fre*i the expiration j
jof former mfurance. Tlie of infur- j
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a «ei«r p
j insurance.
c I 3d. If any other ir Ajrance be mad* on the fami; | A
ie propsrty ;it must be made known at the time of j
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap- j
ie I id.tation will be void. r
,J I 4th Goods held in truO, or on consignment,
'• J liay be infurad as such in a separate policy ; but |
•O j thty are aot to be cocfidered as insured otherwise. i
ie I sth. This company will not be liable or accoun- I
I tabic for any loss or damage occasioned by any lot- 1
:o j eign invanorr, or by any military or ufarped force, I A
ie I or by peafoti of any civil commotion ; or occasion- j
I ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of tHie I
ie like kind kept in the Budding, of amonglt She pro-T
u . I perty infared. ' |
I 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds asd other Secu- I
0 f 1 ritiei, Title Pe.di, Money, Bank and other pro- j
| lc j iriffory Noles, are not included in any infarance ;I cd
j,. J nor are paistings, nedals, jewels, gems, antique I P e
0 f j curioCties, or mirrors excelling the ralae of twen- I P a
is- 1 ty-five dollars each, to be coafielered as insured un- I ~
I less particularly mentioned and by fpecialaglee- J
I mcnt. j ! c
I 7th. No insurance will b« made for a (hotter I lu
ol- I term than t>ue year, nor for a longer term than fe-J
bf I vea years. Persons choosing to infare for fa Ten J
w- I years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way I R
»es los difeount: One third of a years premium shall j e '
nd j be abated m like manner on an insurance for j r<
jld j three years. | al
a _ } Bth. I.olTes fuflalned by fire ec property insured, I *
t ; ie j shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li- I w
for I thereof, without deduction. I ft
'th I A defciiption of property to be infurodwill I a
j be expeded with «ach application, to be made by j d
" r , l I amafler carpenter and fijned by him, as well as j c
r ', Iby the owner of the building or applicant for in- I t
tne I furance, aad attested before a Notary or principal I d
| Magistrate, who will certify his knowleije of the | 0
1 I parties and their credibility. I c
With refpedl to HohJcj andttbtr Buildings, j v
ill. The site and position ; describing the |
street or road on or near which the building | '
Hands; its contiguity to water, and other cir-I''
cumftances reiati> e to the extinguiOiraent of fire I .
in cafe of aciident ; and particularly whether I
lEL " any and what fire companies are eflablilhed, and I
' engine! pronded,in the place or neighbonthood. I
id. '1 he materials ef which it is built, whe- j
ther of brick, stone or wcod, and what part of 1
Ji each, as well as to theoutlide walls as infideor [
tk 11 walls, and their refpeflive height and J 1
thieknefs ; the style of the roof and of what I
ro { materials ; how ieeured by battlements or par- I
Cer- ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the!
house aid to the chimnies j whether any a«d I
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of I ,
fire places ; and the kind of depefit for alhes. ,
3d. The dimensions of the building and how I ,
'. divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so j
as to enable indifferent perfems to judge in what I ,
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of I
only injury ; the age aad condition of the building, I
Lan- and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- 1
eon- ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
e*'* pose ; also an eftinate of the value of the house I
r' ea " or buildwg independent of the ground.
"S u * 4th. The situation with refptfl to other build-j
Ucr s ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or I
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
: ' lc ' each wly : what kind of buildings are within
ac " that distance, how built, of what materials,and I
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel-1
lings for private families or otherwise: whe-I
ther any and what trade cr manufactory is car- 1
riedon, and particularly whether thve be any
reet. extra hazardous articles used, or vfutlly depc-I
. sited in the hc'ife, or within'the distance afore-I
oint " said, and of whit k!nd.
r the ia !Icufts > VVarehoufes, Ac.
mis. x " geneial defciiption of the building in!
nof whith thc y*» re kt P l be expefled, limilar in
:faid ail r « ,r P e,a *> ai, ° ti,e darger from lire, with that
, end rf l u > r 'd for Infsrante on the buildings ;hem- I
iwfirl I e'ves
tt rt *• A dcfcr:ption of the kinds and nature of
iocat the grods,-*he!her in casks or other packages,!
land or opened; and wh.ttr displayed in sthole
pieces or in th# uluil form for retailing. And |
ti-vcj if the goods wy materially in kind, a general I
$ j cflimite of »be ra!a« of ««di kind proofed t• I
n
nl . i ( «nnv DEPARTMENT,
1 REASU R Y MARCH I, , 79 8,
pttrtiG NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVhN,
PuJ3Ll'Cj P-.J on the sixth day of July one hundred and
ofthe A<sl of C»ngref» V°- ( stamped Vellum, Parchment and Pap cr ", and tht
1' rH,c-v-fcven, entitled "An f^°fmbcr , „.,e thousand seven hundred and ninety-feve«, entitled
' Aa pafltd on the fifteenth d the 'commencement of the duties imposed by the Aft cnti .
'' «AnAA to postpone for a Vcllura> Parc hment and P.per", that from and after * e
7 tied " M Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and coll*.
C ' . of Vc :; utu or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper »pon which flull be
? w ekhtt iaflru, " e:,tt ° r w,t s Dls c ,,
f. Any Certificate of c "f the admiffion,enrolment or registry of 5 *
2 A 7 nv t Su 01 -Toilcitor', Attorney, Advocate or Prodl.r, in any Court of .lie •
K United States, •■ * anv ' onc qf tbe Courts of the United Statea
4 ttb*'' "" S "'" 4
h u * r*- «"• ,
re Any Receipt or dilcliar e t iu fa per f oua i c ft ate J,
it! ther teflamentary 'KZliSicaS than J the Wife, Chil
ly vided by force of any flat dcceafeo.thc amount whereof shall be
2 .0, ..!« of O. B»-
°" H r dreaD °.'
n ft . , . 1n0, W f ed t h«rum d ofFiY" Hundrrf Dollar., the addition! sum of ,
he Asd for every iurther , n A riime nt in Bature thereof, on any ftiip, vessel or
h* Any Policy .f Insurance or inftt««em jn. 2J
2t . poods insured from one . - tor p ] aec ,. when the sum for which
m Inlurance is 5 "^ C eed five hundred dollars, - ,
... When the sum insured (haUexceecT. fcaU f§ , he sea , of
Ary Exemplification, of at " a tethe dut'y of the Clerk of such Court to
)r. Court, other 1 Un ; States or some particular state, - 50
t *»/«■"-« -*,
fr'.bo'f. iwom» W"|-»°
& I g
■ef- If above £vs hundred dollar! aad not exceedißg one thousand dollars, 20
om If above one thoulind dollars, - * hereaftit be eftab-
Any M«(c9 ift'ufd HOW cfl*bU{heQ) O y r■ J n 1..
md Ijfhcd within the' United States, other than the note, of such of the f i
/. a , stall agree t. aa annual corapoStion, of one per centum on the annualdi-
made by such Banks, to their Stockholders reipecWy, according to
' lB the following scale. - " ~ g
On all notes not «xce«disg fifty dollars, for each doHar,, - "
nt - On all notes ahov. fifty dollars, aad not exceeding one hnndred dollars 50
ta - Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and aot exceeding hve hnndred
sos dollars, - " " *
' 8t Oa all notes above five handred dollars,
L fe ] Anv Protest or other Notarial aA, - - " "
t '■ Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid peafioa, or to obtain or fell War
; rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military fervicos
' Aiw Certificate er Debenture for drawback of Cnftoms or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - * , . " a
.N, For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For anore than two thousand dollars, - - "
ex- Anv note or bill of lading for g-'ods or merchandise to be exported,
If from one diflriiS to anothor diftriifl of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - " "
m V from the United States to aay foreign port or plaee, - ij
- Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or eff t &s, wade in any
- a , cafe required hy U\v, (except in cases of goods aad chattels dillrtined for
rent or ttxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any o««r,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Intranet Company, of a ihare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Baak, -
If above twentv dollars and aot exceeding «»« - __
Utre JvJliaiJy " *5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for 01* hundred dollars. (
a as 11.
' uir " The duties afore! aid will be collected and received by the Supcrvifors, InfpeAors aud othor Officers
rint " of Irfptflioa, in the several Diftria#, Survey# and Divisions of the United States, aad by fuels other
ffa " persons a» (hail from !• time be fpeciaily appointad and employed by the Supervisors of Diftricls for
ered purpose.
The Supervifora of the fevernl Diftridh will, prior to the firft day of July enfying, and as soon as
°me reay te p ta aicable, mark or fiamp, without fee or reward, any quantities'or psrceKof Vellum, Parch
lc ** ment 01 Paper, witU any cl the rates of duties before enumerated, oa payment of thefaid duties; Or
ftaruped vellum, parchment and paper ii.a\ at the option of the Citizens of the United States be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Superviior, Infpcilor, Officer of lufpsJlion,
°f J" or cthtr per£oa appointed fafrtlie diilribatidn of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrids.
high GIKEN under my Haud, at PbiJaJeJpbis
ereiß ffjg day aud ytar *U)Wtmenli9ntd.
OLIVER WOLOOTT,
f the March 10. Secretary of the Trtn/ary. >
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft I
tha estate of Willam fLSiWTOOB, of •*
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, taerchant, de- tcl
ceased, are rcquefted to exhibit their account*,
properly attefttd ; and those who are iadtbted .
to the fame, are desired to make immediate j
payment, to w
: n„.SK3SS
faauary 4. dtf »«
—— P.
Just Publilhetl, £
And tn he had at the Booli-ftoras of Messrs. Dob- to
ion, CtupitLL, Youuc and Osmkod, la
in Philadelphia, in
OBSERVATIONS "
On the Canlcs and Cure of Remitting «r Eilieus n
T- O
} Fevers.
To -which is annextd,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different a»thoTj : and an APPENDIX, exhib- a[
iting interefling fafts and refleitions relative to u
the Synccbus ißtrmdst, or Yellow Fever, which e(
has occafiofled so much distress Mid mortality, 0i
2 at different periods, in several of the seaport n
towns of the United Statei of America. n
* BY WILLIAM CURRIE, «
Felow of the Philadelphia College of PhyCicians, l<
and Member of the American Philolophieal So- P
6 e; '"y- Feb. j—*3 m § J]
For saLe or to be let on ground
-0 rent, 1
*
A valuable Lot of Grcund ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftrettJ, fronting the State
s' Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut ftrtet, and one hundred an;i thirteen *
111 feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
1 present two fmail two story brick, bsufei, and a
s > number cf small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftcres, wharf, &«. Stuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an-1 Saflafrat
Streets, containing in front on Water Sreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east- '
ward ninety-five feet, thea widening to the
4 t south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ej have the convenience ol a public alley adjoin
:e, irg en the aorth fide, and area very defirablefit
uat:on for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
to who may have occasion for florage of goods,
tie Thu property will be foid on very reafoiuble
4, s terms For ciHi. Far further information apply
to the printer.
J'-s!y j!- tnStwtf
Salisbury Estate. .
THE Subscriber, proposing to contraS his buft
nefj, offers this Eft»ie for fate, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and threa Air Funiacai.
i complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, al»
in perfefl repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
ware lately built for die purpose of carting Canno«
far this State.—There are about two tioufand acrea
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannlatlnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
lupctiui to any in thl» cvuntiy, «ndTsrOTOt>ty,cS« 1 " t ,
to aay in the world ; for not ojic of sixty-nine gar*
lately made, although some of the ware bored
' into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fitu
alion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, a«d a place of arms lying in the Hate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land«
ing* on the Hudson's river, and having every
f t«ge that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from_j large natural pond, very near the
and which may be converted into a variety 01 other
' ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
-1 ed with all the ftcck and utensils, and hav« pofleflio"
> on or before the firU of June next, and preparation
' may be triadein the mean time for going into Blattim*
mediately thereafter, for every part will be deiivere
in good order, with forae coal, Ore, &c. &c. «
terms, afiply to Mr, Joseph Anthony, in Phi«« fl
' phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
to Congrefi for-this State ; Mr, David Wain man, on
thepreimfes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
V WILLIAM NEILSOJ?.
Dee. .. 3 aw(t "
JTO T 1 C E.
A Manufactory of yelloiu and delft want
I Such is aeve# was in this Country before, has
n been lately ere&ed at Tivoii, Red Hook Lan_ ,n ß>
t on the Eall Bank of Hudson's River, fta*e of
York, where any article of va»ious forts and a P
may be executed, as well as earthcrn stoves ,
new conduction, that saves three fourths ot the o
commonly used in call iron stoves or opca chy«
they ate betides very wholesome and ornamenta ,
„ ■«¥. i.. J. mouchet,
f. Wanted a (killful hand to attend t® the baking
glaiting part of the (aid ware. Generous app<"
ments will be aiven. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
■ s No. 7iS(*h5 lhS "" L
;; Feb. -9.
r« Wanted, to Hire,
'• j\ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
le f\ the centre of the city—for which a gene.o
ly rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or >
more for a longer twfn, th# i 1
OSt. 17..