tut|9tattß, «■>
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefmit Street.
vNumeer 1760. J PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, MAT i, 1798. [/Wra Xlil.
PHILADELPHIA, P
TUESDAY EVENING. MAY I.
Extras of a letter from Massachusetts, dated v
April 20tb 1798.
" It ib expefted here that bdth houses ?
will prefcnt ao addiefi of thanks to the Pre- .
fident ; he merits the thanks of the whole ,
nation. His opponents will fink into ob
scurity under the weight of universal con- 1
tempt and be viewed as traitors to our coun- j
try. The jacobins this way appear to be j
. struck dumb—they begin to join the gene
ral voice in execrating the perfidy of the 2
.French. Union through the nation must be
•the consequence. But let ns not be deceiv
ed, although jacobins in Congttfs, and out,
may pfetend to give up the French—and 1
'j>reund to join in proper tneafures, yet they '
rnay prove serviceable to their matters who 1
.}» aye boug/ft thttr., by oppoling measures un- <
duf the maftc vf fritndiliip. This I cxpeft | ]
will be the plan for the leaders of the French '
faftion. By long fpccchet, the time may ; '
"ftMl be walled, and in this way infinite in- < 1
jury done, as in time pall, uukfs the real 1
friendj to our > ountry lhall infii'l on difpatoh. j <
The luperlative folly of making long fpe.eh-1 1
e» to be pubiifhed in newspapers, in order ! I
to get a aame for great banting with their | '
conftituen-s has been a constant curse to our 1
country. Bcfides the infinite injury ariling 1
from (he delay of national concerns, mor; <
than sixty thotifand dollars have been waft- '•
td this session, by long speeches. This is
abominable—it raises dil'gutl and indigna- '
tion in the rrindsof all ftnfible men.
My regards to , I take it he pieferves :
his former moderation with regard to the
French. The late dispatches do not hurt
their charafter, in my mind, and I conceive
they 1-fe none of his esteem thereby. They
are secure from finking, if there should be
any alteration in thsir character, they must '
rife."
A Corrrefpondent observes, that not
withstanding all the French spoliations on
our comrperce, violation of treaties, and in ;
fnlts offered to the nation in the persons of
our it is furpriling there Ihould be
men yet found among us, who, likt the de
laded Samson, still wish to embrace a favo
rite Delilah at the riik of involving' not only
themfelves,but their country in ruin. Like
that falfe and perfidious harlot, the rulers
of France hare been long makingprotections
of their " unbounded friendlhip" for the
people of the United Slates, while they
and their emissaries were using every possible
means to work their deftruftion, by endea
voring to divide us, and alienate a majority
of the re»p!e frwis thf gcurrrntrsnt.
Our late ally may now be justly called, the
Overbearing Bt|d tyrannical nation,not bound
by the ties either of religion, or morality !
Forthe Gazette of the United States.
Citizens of /merica,
Already, on the fubjet't of French hoftil
;ities meditated against us, a geneious emu
lationhas manifefted itfelf every where ; the
cities ai d diltrifts throughout the country
afe vying with ench other for the hoj»or of
deserving well of their country. The great
est examples of patriotism are exhibited eve
ry whet* : the American commerce, which
is feniible of the advantages of peace, of
fers the riches it had gained in prolperous
times j and its (hips heretofore employed in
'the peaceful speculations of iudtiftry, aie
ready to ?rm for the terrible operations of
war. If proof were wanting, our late dif-.
patches will fufficiently demonstrate the fuc
cefiive and multiplied injuries of the French
government towards us; and of the repeat
ed, candid, and sincere attempts which we
have made to avoid a ruptqre, the fatal con
fluences <>f which must sooner or later fall
on thofewho have unjultly provoked it. The
American republic will have nothing to re
proach herfelf with, since (he will have ex
iiaulled every means compatible with her
dignity, before coming to such extremities.
The French nation, forgetting what they
had.so often promised, not to interfere inthe
dometlic affairs of other nations, have taken
occafiori, from the firft ftntiment of indig
nation expieffeu inour President's lad speech
to put the last hand to their enmity against
the Americao people. That picture of its
conduit delireatedin the recent communica
tions from our Envoys, and which it is now
unnecessary again to pourtray, must have
prepared you for this event. At that peri
od it miijht still have been expefled, that
reason would b ing back the Dir*dtory to
the principles of justice, that convinced cf
the futility of their reclamations, the injuf
ijje of thtir proceedings, and of their per
fections against us ; it might have still
been hoped, I repeat,, that they would aban
don their chicane'y, and honestly concur
with the executive of America, for the
maintenance of peace" between the two na
tions. That hope, which men abhorring a
war between free nations, clwriihed, that
hope is no rrore ; the hoftilc\iews of France
are fully d-.vcloped. If war was not imme
diately declared against you, it is because
the neefffary forces were not readyto dtilroy
you, because it was hoprd you might be
come the aggressors. Such, however, is
now our political fhuation, in which, citi
zens, let one idea ele£te.riz.e your fouls—
Let the Trader forget bis commerce to aria
his veffi.l for war ; let the Cipitalift co: fe
crate his funds to sustain the- credit of his
government ; let the Proprietor and Culti
vator,renouncing all fpccuiatiwns,carry plen
ty iato our markets. Let Americans com-
pose but one army ; let America he one t
camp. Let us prepare for ruins and mis- c
fortunes, and accustom ourselves to live
without those comforts we have been ?;ctif- t
tomed to. What you tr- - tt, fear-, is aot j h
a war, but the uncertainty -.vuelher you (hall | t
hate a war. This will icxpend your re- a
faurces without profit. .They wait till their 1
fleets er« coniplttely araied andsequippfd ; t
till anarchy shall divide you, that-in dread of
taxes, you (hal! become #n easy prey to be 1
swallowed up by them. You have nothing t
left but to draw the sword and make a firm t
and united stand. r
MR. FENNO,
A Correspondent w.Lflies you would re
publifh ia your paper the letter of our Com
mifiioners in Franae to the Minister of Fo
reign Affairs, Al'.hoogh this has, with the \
other Dispatches from our Envoys been
puhiiflied, it ought again-to be prefwwed to
the public. Let the American reatkr ob
fcrve the anxious folicitudt with which a dif
! cuiSon of the of the French
Government, is r«quefted in order that an
' opportunity may be had to remove those
j complaints ; let him observe the strong ;.«d
' sincere defirethere to restore that .
' harmony which heretofore subsisted between 1
the two nations, and ag*(n to place tham on
the molt friendly terms with rsfpcA tueach
other ; let him attend {o the mild, frtwik, '
and candid manner in which, this difrufiion
i isearntftly entreated hy our "rfciiftcrJ; a '
manner which might have difan* 'd the re
fentmentof the moll justly irritated enemy, '
i and which ought to have covered with con
fufion those, vrho without cause have
become our foes; let him then recollectfthat
theDirecJtory did not even deign to return an
answer to this supplicating address—and if
he l?e not a Frenchman at heart ; if he ha 3
i one drop of American blood flowing in his
veins, he will feel an indignation too strong
for utterance.
, ( No % 3-)
Parti, November 27th, 1797-
; Oft the 1t th -rnftant vye the
following official letter to the Minitler of
Furtigti A'ffairs.
CITIZEN MINISTER,
" The undersigned Envoys Extraordina
ry and Miniiters Plenipotentiary of theUni
' ted States of America to the Freeh Repub
lic, had the honour of "announcing to you
officially, on the 6th of October, their arri
val at Paris, and of presenting to you on
the eighth, a copy of their letters ofcredence.
Your declaration at that time, that a report
on American affairs was then preparing;
arid would in a few days be laid before the
j Direftory. whose decision thereon should
1 without delay, be made known, has hithei J
to'impofed silence on them. For this com
munication they have waited with that anx
ious solicitude which so imerefting an event
could riot fail to excite, and with that re
fptil which i 9 due to the government of
Ftance. They have not yet -received it,
[ ar:d so much time has been permi ted to e
lapse, so critical is the situation of manyef
j. their countrymen, and so embarrafling is
that of the undersigned, both as it refpeits
theinfelves and the government they repte
sent, that they can no longer dispense with
1 the duty of soliciting your attention to
their million.
s
, " The United States, citizen minister,
s at an epoch which evinced their sincerity,
f have given inconteftjble proofs of their ar
dent friendlhip, of thtir affeftion for the
. French republic : these were the result,
, not of her unparalleled prowess and power,
_ but of their confidence in her justice and
■ magnanimity ; and in such high efticnati®n
. was the reciprocity of her friendlhip held by
[ them, as to have been a primary objeft of
e national concern. The prefervatioti of it
. was dear to them, the loft of it a fubjeft
. of unfeigned regret, and the recovery of it
r by every roeafure, which (hall consist with
the rights of an independ:nt nation, enga
j ges their constant attention, The govern
„ mentof the United States, we are author
r, ized to declare, has examined, with the
. most fcrupnlous justice, its condudt towards
its former friend. It has been led to this
I by a sincere desire to remove of itfelf every
s just cause of complaint ; conceiving that,
_ with the mod upright intentions, fucb cause
v may pofiibly exist ; and although the ftr:£t
e eft search has produced no felf reproach, al
. though the government is confcioUa that it ,
t has umformily fought to prefe ve, with fi
-0 delity, its engagements to France, yet far
f from wiftiing to exercise the privilege of
judging for itfelf on its own course of rea- '
. foning arid the lights in its own possession,
[j it invites fair and_ candid discussion ; it fo
_ licits a y reconsideration of the past ; it is
r persuaded its intentions, its views, and its
e actions must have been mifrepnefenttd and
. misunderstood ; it i?convinced that the ef
j fential interests of both nations will be pro
t moted by reconciliation and peace, and it
e cherifiics the hope of meeting with finpilar
. difpofitipns on the part of the diriftory.
" Guided by these the Pre
f fident of the United States has given it in
- charge to the undersigned to Itate to tl.e ex
s ecntive directory the deep regret which he
- feels at the loss or fufpenlion of the harmony
- and friendly iutercourfe which subsisted be
-3 tween the two republics, and his sincere wish
- to restore them ; to. discuss candidly the
5 complaints of France, and to offer frankly
- those oLthe United States : and he haa.au
- ttiorized a review of existing treaties and
■ such alterations thereof as shall cocfift with
: the mutual interest and fatiifadtion of the d
. eontrtjSipg parties. t
r ' This taik underfigned are anxious I
- to commence ; and truly happy will they f
t j be, if th. ir cue u\>n3 can in pay degree con- c
1 | tribute to restore that friendlhip, that mutu- v
- al interchange of good office* which it is a- f
r like their wiflj and their duty to effect be- t
; tween the citizens of tlie two republics. f
f " The undrrfigaed pray yo», Citizen . y
» Minister, to prtfent this careimonication to r
r the Executive Directory, ind to receive
1 the assurances of their molt pe-rfe{t conGde- t
ration. i
(Signed J i
Charles Cv'.efiuorth Pinclney,
I. Marfbail, c
E. Gerry. c
Paris, November ltth, inthe 22d t
e year of the American Independence.
j To the Minister of Foreign Affairs s
of the French Republic-" v■ • g
MR. PENNO, <
1 By republilhing the following «xtra«ft. f
n from a book, entituled domestic anecdotes t
e of the French nation, printed in the. year i
A 1794, tlvofe poor devils, the American Jaco- <
bins, will fee rhat an unhallowed love of gain 1
n is as chara&eriftio of the Bifiiop of Autun, (
n as his hobbling gait. t 1
" A BKhopof whom we must fay a word, <
. is the famous TaLvevrand. Perhaps the I
unhappy L uis xvi. fovefaw the evil 1
, ,he tvould occhfion in the flue, or he did not
wish to introduce into &is higher clergy,
| an intriguing being, whose merit confiifted in
' an acquintance witl. the flock jobbing of the
Rue Pivienne ; in consequence of which he
it refufed a lnag while to uominate him ; but
the See of Autun becoming vacant, the
jp king was again persecuted ; it was repre
r fented to him that the feat in question, re
quired a man acquainted with the finances,
v because the Bi(hop there, was of right pre
-0 fident of the dates of Burgundy ; and the
king gave a reludtant confcnt.
The Bilhop's intimacy with Mirabeau,
whom he attended at his death, proves the
delicacy of his morals, and as he was the on
ie pr, whooppofed the catholic religion's
J ' , 0 » ired the religion of tlic Ilatt, bj
thi3 we bf his.
Tliis prelate tsok the civic oath, and con
}. fecrated the firft Bishop intrus ; it is report
i- ed in Paris that he received one hundred
d- thousand crowns for each of these ope
iu rations ; but these arn accusations to which
i- his well known avidity for money may have
in given currency, and from which time a'one
e. can draw the veil which still conceals from H3
rt a multitude of dark mar.ceui}res."
T. _
ie From the New-Tori Daily Gazette.
d
i'- Copy of a letter from New Jersey, dated
a- April 3.
<- DEAR SIR,
it REMOTE as I am situated from the
e- great theatres of politics, I can hardly be
jf supposed capable of forming a just idea of the ;
t, (late of our affairs with re(pe£t to foreign
e- powers. The papers which circulate here I j
as occasionally read, but there are (ui.li con- i
is tradiftory fentimeuts broached by one and
ts the other, that it is almost impofiible to
e come at the truth. One tells us our g<)v->
:h ernment is administrated by men fold to
to Great Britain—another, that there it a par
ty among us determined to go any lengths
in juftifying the French* Thc\t such men
' as are in the Departments of our government
(fcould be capable of the vilentfs of corrnp
tion, is, I think, an idea rathtr ridiculous,
t especially if the temptations to it are eon
' trafted with those to a contrary condudt. I
fufpeft those who make this charge are wic
ked and weak, and to be despised, require
only to be known.
0 p With refpedt to the idea of a French par
ty disposed to make this country fubfervieat
to the vievvs of their favorite nation, I have
every reason to believe in its existence. Eu-
thuliafts there are as well in politics
a _ as religion. These are usually stimula
ted by the defperatear.d defigni"g, and fuf
fer themselves ta be made tools for personal
] a ends by men, who deserve to be spurned for
their villainy and detested for their parricide
j views.
Your city politicians, however Mfe and
t penetrating thsy may t'nink themselves,
are often, very often wrong, and aft more
like madmen than persons of reflettion and
j_ sense. How ridiculous, for example, was
j t it a few years back, to make such pompous
- demonltrations of nuutr ality as you did,
Jf by ringing your bells «n receiving news of a
French viAory ? I have often wondered we
a _ «did not fer your papers filled with -accounts'
of the tolling of bells whenever the French
j' met with a reverse. Surely your sensibility
• s must have been equally alive to both ex
tremes. Whence then this inconsistency ?
We, in this quarter, think morf of our
agriculture and our Commerce, the affe&i
onate twiti-fifters of America, than to be
j t eterually damning one nation and extolling
jr another, especially when we owe verjr little
real regard to either. We believe our obli
gations extend only to such duties as spring
e " from the relations inseparable froni com
n merce—We are not impressed with notions
thatfacrifices are tobe madeat the imaginary
,e (lirine of gratitude. We aft nationally and
T rationally, and attach ourselves to those who
5 " can, and, do, benefit us moll.
We dot fee how an American can admire
lc France, espouse her cause, or juflify the
J conduft, either generally with regard to her
J " world, or particularly as to us.'' The infor
'' matiqn we receive from the papers as I have
'' said, is contradiftory ; but what we
: depend on, is official orr.mur.icatioiu, and
they lead us to believe Prav.ce is our enemy,
i Indeed what can gain-fay it ? Would a
' friend roband plunder y.v» ? The arifweris
- obvious,r 1 fimiilhea a i~. aclory evidence
- whom «c are to and ».iom re- i;|
- probate. Why should we contend about
- the' measures we ore th take to secure mir
felves.from insult and depredation ? Would
i yqu not arm yourfelf if you expe&ed to
> meet a scoundrel notorious for his robberies? ,
; Would "you not at Uqft avoid die peftiferous
- being, who declares another is warranted
in pilfering your property ? Would you not
in fa£t, think it proper to get rid of him ?
Tell us how those who reduce us. to the ne- f e
ceffity of keeping our produce rotting on th
our hands, when foreign markets are open cc
to receive it, can be friendly ! 'j 1
I hope soon to fee a different spirit aftu
ating your politicians than has latterly dif- t j,
graced them. When the country is in dan
ger, the mao who advocates the foe, is an ta
enemy,;and fliould be expelled with horror V
I and i'gpominy. Let us, if pofiible, avoid
s tile lligma of republics—disunion and fa£t- u
r ious extravagance. Let us keep out of our C(
- Councils, and, if neceflary, diive from a- w
n mong us, the men who excite discord and ft
!, coiifufiofl. Let u rally under the Ameri- si
can Standard, and cordially unite in taking «
1, care of ouffelvcs. We fhal: then be power- f
e ful and rife into our proper grade of polili-
h cal importance. e
,t .< lam, &c.
n From a London Paper. 0
ie ' A
e CURIOUS RECEIPT. {
it The Following it a copy tfan original Receipt t
ie Actually Given for Rent onChrijlmas-Day, t
1762. t
Received this anniversary day of Christ's F
s, nativity, according to' vulgar chronology, 1
December 25, new ttiie in the year of '
ie the XVIIIth century of the Chrillian sera,
Synchronizing orcoinciding withthc647sth ,
l, year of the Julian perio4 : the 2870 th from t
ie the foundation of the truly ancient city of
i- London, the second yearof the 635 th olym- 1
's piad ; the 2515 th year from the building of '
,y tKc ancient eity of Rome ; the 2511 th year ,
of Nabonazar, or the 2087 th year of the ,
n- Philippic epocha, on Saturday the 9th day
t- of the Egyptian wandering month Phame- <
D noth ; the 1817 th year and 10th day from 1
e- Julius Ca:far's invasion of England ; the J
:h 1497 th year of the Dioclefian radix, or sera ]
re of the Cophtic Martyrs ; the 18th of the ,
ie fixed Egyptian month Chceae ; the 1176 th 1
S3 year of the Turkish Hegira, or flight of ;
Mahomet ; the Bth day of the month Gui- '
madi 11. i years and 61 daysfrom the accef- '
fion of King George 111. to the Crown
of Great Britain, &c, 54. days after a lunar ■
:d partial eclipse, which fell out in the 2511 th (
year of Nabonazar ;on Monday the 15th i
d,y of the wandering month Tybi, at the 1
ie interval or diftanceof 2484 Egyptian years ;
be ' and 106 days, or 2482 Julian years, and (
be j 216 days from the most ancient lunarecliplc,
;n i recorded by I'folemy to have been celebra- 1
I j ted at Babylon the 27th of Thoth, in the 1
n- ! 2 7th year of Nabonazar, and in the I ft year
id erf the reign of Mardokemriid,tbesth C.ial
to dean King, (in Scripture ft L:d Merodach- '
v-> Bajadon the son of Baladon, King ofßaoy- ,
to lon)of Mr. J, G. of W— ,in the coun
r- ty of Middle ex, Coßiedian. by the hands
as of Mr. J. B. K. journeyman wheel-wright
'n in the presence of Mr. J. P. one piece of
nt gold coin, bting the lawful coinof tins realm
p- of Great Britain, called Ir.lf-a-guinea, of the
s, value of ten fhiliings a. 1 sixpence, in full
n- for 43 days and 12 hours rent, dua to me
I this day, for two rooms next the firrrtament
c- lately in my tenuie and occupation, in the
re dwelling house of Mr. R. W. fituatedfn
B—in the pnrifh of rft James s, Clcrken
r- well, 111 the County afbrelaid, and in full of
nt all demands, from the creation of the world
ve tothis moment.
a- Per me D. C. TcaeherofChronology.
cs Witness G. P.
a- flintier the receipt")
f- Memorandum.—This Receipt was exhi
al bited and the signatures of Mr. D. K-ac- 1
>r knowledgcd before me this 25th December, 1
ie 1762.
J. C. Notary Public.
id FOR SALE, ===l;;J=,=s=? " ,
' 3 > by the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet, I
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, Commauder.from Bengal,
' s Cwftjling of
Baftas, o£ various qualities and prices, j
CoiTae* Punjuin Cloths i
a Sr.nih» Gu7zeydo. t
;e Hum bum* Charconna Dorea
ts Blue Cbth Tanjibs (
•V, Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls 1
Mamoodyi Ctierka 3
J .Viaharagonges Pa to. a Hhfs. \
Giflghami Mwlmul do. j
Guzzenas Bantiar.noes
tr Gurrahs Siflerfoy
i- Piniafcoes liomals £
, e Salgatchys Sooty <lo. c
„ Gillie Romsls Perlians ot rwiou9 cos. r
I Mack Pulicats t
100 tons f UG Ali c
90,000 lb. PEPP£K.
Willings tif Francis. 1
1S The Piece Goods ,
. Of the Ganges are n.iw open to salts at that v
commodious llore the north weft corner of a
Market an<( Fourth-streets. t
0 Alio—A few Bales of Madrafs Hltfs. of tie- t
gam patterns and best colours. t
re F'-hruiry 8. dtf, C
TO" RENT, ' »
'J A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each floor, w>»h a convenient r
?e Ritshsn—lll front, pear S'uM-ftrctt Enquire "s
»e of th- fri-tcr. April jawjw
I - - ■ .1 . . > .-* • .It-.
! ' C Q iV a R E S 5.
' HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
-s'''
niij?, *»*«, ao.
I'h• Houf.- having resolved itfolf into a <oniiiiirt?
t if the whole ok the "!»•,< of .tjip y.nipn, on the
liil to provide an »ddii i *■ <i afmanuw for ih.-
j protection of the trade of iheTJnitfd States, on.t '- 1
for other purpofjs, when the Ttwflderatlon frf
' Mr. Gallatin's afciervflmrr.t to tr.e -fir.l fiCliou
■ being rtfunwd, yiz. to infrrt " provided tltey
3 fliall not, in time of peace,.Le employed as con
j voy? to any port or piac. ."
(Continued from ya/lri&y-'t Gtrxiitc.J
? Mr. Otis would not pretend to judge of
1 the sincerity of gentlemen who declared them
' (elves ready to adopt effectual rireafures for
i the defence of the country according (o theif
i conception of that object, but he thought
their ConftrtiCl ion of the terms, " defence of
the country," was extremely limited and par
. tial. It in ordinary cases, it was requiJite for
the illullratiouof a question, t# agree upon the
" ' diiiuition of terms', it was (fill more iiupotf
i tant on the present iraporunt occalion—
r Whenthe gentlematr from Per.nfylvania and
J others speak of tilt defence of the country,
tltey evidently mean to confine their ideas to
a defence «f the/w7. He on the other iiaiu(
r conceived that the efTential part of a country
was the people ; and when he considered tha
d fubjeCl of defance, he uilhcd that it might be
!- such a defence as would embrace the whole
g ma-l's of thecitizens distributed into different
.. pro-fdllions, and together confuting wirit he
♦called the country. The foil was no other*
l " wife deferring of protection, than as it iol in -
ed a portion of Cue property of £»he cinzens.
U, was withoutdoubt ah<e j4*ii;{tpVi, andaaofl
valuable portion ; but there were other kinds
of property which for the fame reason had
also claims to protection. The Ibip of a mer
chant isnot lelsthepropei tvofthe country than
tl>e houfeofa farmer— L'hefailor who ploughs
the ocean is not less a citizen than the lu'if
y» bandman who ploughs the foil—There is no
thing sacred in the foil, difHn.t from thepeo
's pie who inliabit it. Many extensive '.rafts
„ of the foil of this country ; deep moaafles,
trackless swamps and howling delarts were of
no value whatever; yet they belong to the
a ' people; they are a part of our public or j .ri -
vate property, which no man would feci .tu
rn thorized formally to abandon,
of Mr. O. would agree that sometimes the re
n. sources of a country would not be found e-
Q f qual to the protection of all the citizens or
of all their property. In such inflances he
allowed that a preference due to themofi
he numerous class of citizens and to the mod
iy valuable part of their property all were
e- equally exposed to danger Bift when a go
m vernment is unable to extend its protection to
[j e the whole community ;it is fufficient to be
silent with refpeft to that part of it which is
*" a left defenceleis and exposed. It is an aggra
"e vation of the misfortune to declaie this imbe
th cility to the world ; to depress the spirits of
of your own citizens, and point them out as
viftinvs for your enemies, (n the bill before
us, it is fufficient to provide such a number of
' vtfflels as are nearly equal to the defence of
the coast, without faying to our merchants,
ar "your country cannot protert you." it is
th enough, to leave them to take care of thjm
th selves, cr to permit the Executive to allo.v
he them convoy or not, as circumflfnces may
rs arise : but to declare to the merchants of the
, United States ; to fifty thousand teamm; to
the manufacturers, tradef.ncii awid falxnirinsr '
• c > poor dependent on the n, in explicit terms
a- that they are abandoned anls expatriated ; to
he fay in the mournful language of "cmjemeri
ar " vVe wilh to God we couldprotect you, but
,i. we cannot do it;" to pronounce this rre'ne.i
---j dous feutence upon a number of person; equal
upon a moderate computation to the inhabi
y- tants of the largest (fate in the Union, would
il- be -.in impolitic, unjust and diftionourabie in
ds fult. Let us, laid Mr. O try this princi
ht pie by another test. Great funis of money
of have been appropriated for the, fortification
I of ports and harbours, and for the ,defence of
, ■ the coalt—ltill no gemleman believes th.tr
every part of our extensive coast is capable of
ml defence, or that our refotirces will enable us
ne to fortify all our ports and h;.rb>;m. But
nt have we said to any part of the people of our
| ie country, "It will be too expenfive'r? protect
fn r \ P r have we said to foreign nations,
" Look, here or there and you v/ill find us
n ; vulnerable and dsfencelefi.)" fJa. The
ol means of defence will b - employed and :>n
•ld portioned to the belt advantage; but .f It
were doubtful whether Geor-ia or Maine
could be put into a polture of defence we
should hardly declare to those diftriih., or to
the world, that we thought them untenable.
Yet this is the amount of the proposition or'
11- the gentleman from Pennsylvania, and il is it*,
ic- this view of it, he w#Sjiftoiii(hed to find it in
;r( troduced. He had often heard from gentle
men the alTertion that we were not ab 1 " to
protect bur own commerce ; and that our iit
_ inoft means were equivalent only to a ten to
rial defence. He would not comment upon
r, the truth or policy of such remaj-ks. He did
not however expeCt that a proclamation of
them in the form of this amendment would
have been ottered for the sanCtion of th*
honfe. Yet this is ffriCtly the fact. V/e are
> invited to fay that we will guard
invasion ofourlhores, but not against tne wa;-
ton and unjust attacks of our'p operty at lea
That we will defend what is not exposed to
danger; and deleft what is every' momeat
liable to deltruCtion. v If this system is robe
adopted upon the eve of a war, we may as
well fubtr.it at once to the proud and on.
preflive nation, of whose conduct we com
plain.
But the quellion reenrsr— Do the United
States polTefs the meai)3 of proteCtin-' tJieir
commerce? He believed that no counfrv v.a
t- naturally more competent to alfori this pro
tection. Our country abounds with the prin
cipal materials requisite for building a navy
I his opinion is not novel, but. has received
the (aiu-fion of great men and wife fegi flat tires.
Examine the journals of in the year
1775. It will there appear that Wtolirt'onn
ai were pa led for building lis or eight frigates
of and other vclTels of v»-ar, an J at the clofc oi
the fefiion no difficulty appeared in providin '
e- the ways and means. Th ;y resolved that the
money fhoulkl be provided after haviii" de
cided that the expence was necsJTary. °S'ich
- was 'he mode of doing bu(in?fs atthat period
such ought to be the mode of effecting it
now, under circumttancos beyond"con>nariY ori 0 ri
nt more auspicious; with double the population
xe "an immense addition to our mercantile ji,c{
» fc r.cultural and a regular govern-wt t- f ;is fru* that towards the of the
tii* *avy 01 [tie Un'.ieu btaies was dmu
r.if. .»/ captures ; l>u» .-jot before it hid
tail ■> more than indemnified the government.
fdr ;h e Colt of its contraction and matnte
ft.nie by prizes. So firmly persuaded was
Co ngrefsofits utility, that in the year J783,
iiu mediately after the coticlufion of a peace;
Upon a recent view and f«ir ettiinate of the
pain and loss of a naval edablifhinent, a refo
on wasltiti adopted declaring a refpectablj
marine to be a desirable object, and recom
mending to the dates, to provide funds for its
accomplilhment. In the notes on Virginia
(an authority he was fond of quoting) the e'x
pediency, of a naval armament' is also advo
•cated. Besides, Sir, said he, why have we
not equal ability t<» build and maintain a na>,
with the (fates of Denmark or Sweden, whose
population and refourcesare inferior to ours ;
Why cannot this cwuntry provide a fleet, as
well as Peter the Great of Ruftia, at a time
when hii were jult emerging from
B irbarifra, *nd when the arts were imperfectly
known in his country ? It may t>? said, indeed,
that this n*is atchieved by the force of despo
tism.; but he believed that the force of pa
triotism rould effect much greater miracles j
that the free American could serve his coun
try mere effectually than the Ruliian Boor,
mid that the impulse of liberty was a greater"
stimulus than the lath of the Knout.
But it is objefied to this power of granting
convoy, that this employment of the velTels
wouid be a cause of war. [Mr. Gallatin said
he did m>t fav it would be a cause of war, but
that it ivouid be war] Mr. Otis replied that
he could not conceive that an a£t perfectly
confident with the laws of nations and a date
of neutrality fiiould be considered as a£Wai
war—no principle was more indisputable than
this right of convoy. It had been denied
with great audacity, but it culdnot be doubt
ed by any man moderately Conversant with
the law of nations, or who had read a history
• f modern Europ*. A ditference had been
hinted between the situation of the northern
) owe) s of Europe at the period of the armed
neutrali'y, and the date of this country ; but
this right had been exerciled prion to thefor
lliat on of tiie armed neutrality, and has been
uniformly aliened and adopted in praftise
during the present war. On «he! 27th of.
March 1794, a new convention was framed i
between Denmark and Sweden, recognizing
this right and resolving upon a naval Force to
maintain it. [He read this convention] In
the fame year we find that a demand was pre
ferred byiheie powers to the Britidi Govern
ment for an indemnity for tltstr captured (hips
and property. An ample compensation was
itiad?, yet the fleets of Sweden and Denmark
were not e<jual to the Britiih fleet ; but the
equipment discovered a determination to de
fend and vindicate their rights and it produ- 1
fed its effect. But how was this convoy, Mr. 1
Oiis alked equivalent to actual war ? Is it
because our ved'els will not submit to be
icarched by the French ? If this be deemed 1
bv gentlemen equivalent to an aitual (late ot 1
war, it will'not be induced but may be pre- ;
vented by convoys ; for under prelent cir- i
cumftances a private veirel may r.lii't the at
tempt to search when deditute of a convoy. I
Does the ptntleman from Pennfylvariia then I
intend, that this bill will amount to a decla- \l
ration of war ? That cannot be pretended— 1
Or will itafford a pretext for war! It is too I
late to tiunk of avoiding pretexts. France 1
wants 110 pietexts, (he waits oiily for conveni- 1
ence. She threatened to ravage your coads; (he 1
warned you of the fa eof Venire ; the feet 1
of the nation are raised to trample on your
necks, their bayonets are burni(hed to plunge '
into your bosoms. The war with England 1
affords her fumcient employment at present ; I
let them (ucceed in their enterprize againd I
her, and then fee whether you will elcape ;
from opprtfiion and war. j
Great reliance has been placed upon the ]
afTertion that tjie late decrees of the Direclo- (
ry affeft only an inconlicferable and difidvjn- t
tageouspvt of our commerce. Our carriage c
•f Britiih goods and our direct trade with the [
Britiih dominions ; in which branches of c
commerce the Britiih will exclude us, from 1
their ability to convoy and to carry at a cheat
per rate. It is further said, that if we remain r
at peace, our trade wiii be umnoleded, ex- }
eept in the cases fpecified in those decrees, «
but that a rupture with France, will deprive 1
us of not only her trade, but of all the nati- c
ons in alliance with her orunderhercontroul. \
Ke wondered greatlythat gentlemen did not I
perceive the limple arifwer to these objecti-, a
ons—ln all those cases if their arguments t
were jult, there would be no occasion for the t
employment of convoy, and the velfels would p
either not be purchased or they would be de- t
(lined to some other use. To defend the v
coad, or to protect the transportation of our 1
troops aud military (lores. But he did not c
believe in the solidity of the(e arguments — (
France did not mean to permit this country r
to carry cm airy Specie* oi commerce, that< v
she could prevent—no gentleman could feri- [
otifly believe that (he would confine herfrlf,
though unjud aud cruel in a high degree, to
the letter or spirit of her late decrees. We 1
have authentic information that (he captures
all (lie meets, and the Arch Buccaneer of the v
Welt Irtlies has publilhed an edict purporting t
that nothing mult be fufFered to efcape—nei- „
ther was it to be imagined that in the event of c
a war with a nation, (hould be (hut out .
from the ports of the other European nations.
Of fifty one millions of our annual export's ; v
a inoiety conliftsof the produce ot other coun- f
tries, of sugars, teas, coffee, cotton and other t
articles, the demand for which in Europe is a
conltant, and mult be fuppljed : Thisfupply
mult be obtained from those countries who ,
can carry chea pert. At present for this rea
lon, it is principally derived from this coun- a
try. It isa monlirous supposition that France «
ihould acquire such an ascendant in Europe e
a 4 to compel Spain, Holland, the Hanfe n
Towns, Rudia <nd the Italian Hates to fore- g
close our commerce, and to deprive „ theni
felves of the advantages of purchasing sup- c
plies frontllvofr who can furnith them with e:
the bell ad vantage —fuchafydem could ne- tl
ver be enforced—All those countries wouid ci
be interelled to clttde iti—That trade which c ,
was obdructed 111 a dire£t coiufe would be -j
caiTied on circuitotifty ; but dill it would con
tinue, and if protected, it would flourilh.
The eliect therefore of denying convoy to our
merchants will be to destroy this great and
beneficial carrying trade ; to transfer its emo
luments to other nations ; to annihilate forty a
millions worth of (hipping and to itarve or b«-
nifh sixty thousand lailors and their families
Upon the value of our lands ar.d produce,
the operation of this amendment 'would be q
highly pernicious. The farmers have been
aiuuled with the ideS, that if our own -velfels
embargoed, the Britiih and neutral (hips a
will come hitljrr for their produce, and that
their interfrft w.il not fufier. But it Ihould
be remembered that with respect to the pro
duce of our country, tlxve is a great diffe
itiice betw cen seeking and waiting for a mar
ket. It chiefly confills of provilions and the
if it%r.ines of life, with which nature 111 fume
nieafiires, provides all countries; —As the F<
•euioni vary, as the harvell is more or lefsa
buuddnt; the demand for this produce also
le fluflu.ttes, a«4, one nation may accidentally
1- posse's an iiumenie surplus, while another is
d with famine. The enterprize of
it. the exporterenables him to difcoverand avail
- hitnfelfof (uch eircumtiances, aud when
is is tree the amount of our produce will be the
!, greatest quantity which our indufiry can raise;
; but when exportation it reftrainedj the de
e mand is uncertain ; the merchant will not
- risque the putchafe of great quantities which
* may perish on his hand, and an imrnenfe di
- minution both of quantity and value is< the
s unfailing confequeiice. Besides said he, ad
a mittuig that other nations (hould lend velTels
- fuificKfriit to take od' all our .produce ; they
- rauft provide convoys ; they tyill not veiVture
e unarmed ; and unless your produce can be
, botigru 011 tpritis tlut y ill defray the expence
e i»f arming they *jll nor come at all. The
! quelliuti therefore reijiiins, whose convoy
s will you pay for—that of foreign nations or
e that of*ypurown country ? Honor and inte
-1 re.'t giveorte aiifwer-j humiliation and mean
y neh another.
, It has been arlferted within these walls and
- echoed throughout this continent that we are
- going to war in Support of Brijilh marmfac
; tures, and ot a trade tile ballance of which
- is agauitt uj. To Jliew the difitdvantage of
, our trade with Britain, it has been inlifted
r- that in the lad year France has taken eleven
millions of our exports and Great Britain but
J eight millions and an half. But he would
i alfert that either ihis comparative of our ex -
1 ports was not an infallibte ted of'the relative
t advantages ps our trade, or if it be so, the
t fame principle taken lor a series of years is in
f favour of ottr trade with Great Bri'tain.—ln
: the year preceding the lalt our exports to
I Great Britain were twenty three millions.—
1 To France eleven millionsonly—By the report
I of Mr. JefFerloo in 1794 funned upon a view
of our commerce in peacable times, wefentto
1 Great Britain ftine millions anlnuully, and to
France about four millions—l it the year 1785
1 it appears by a memorial of the Britiih mer
-1 chants to the king, that such is the natural
tendency of our export-trade in favor of Great
Britain, that although Germany and Holland
wanted annually of tobacco,
they could obtain but 5000, and that out of
15000 hogllieads for which the French market
I would aftiird-a file, they would get from us
' but twelve hundred. The reft was lent to
Great Britain.
Gentlemen may contend that a great-part of
our experts to Sruain is re-exported ; but
the quantity thus re-exported is not precisely
known, nor can. it conclude againd the geite
ral position. The markets of other countries
being open, we Ihould carry these exports di
re£lly thitiier, if it were not"conven;ent-atid
advantageous to permit theuito center inGreat
Britain, and whether they are remitted in ex
change for merchandize which we want and
cannot obtain on equal terms from other coun
tries ; or as a fund to facilitate our negocia
tions and commerce in other parts of tiie
world, it equally refulti that this bias pro
ceeds from that commercial sagacity which is
always acute to discern aud active to pursue
its tme~4tttcre{i.
He would further add that the exports of"
the lad year for another reason were not the
true criterion of trade. The depredations of
*the French corsairs had already increased to a
degree which induced many to clear out for
the French dominions, when theaiitual delli
nation was to some other country —and of the
nominal elevefi millions appearing to be thus
cleared out, only three millions confided of
our own produce or manufactures.
Mr. 0, said, that he wouid not take the
wide range of the gentleman from Corineifti
cut (Mr. nor give the fame icope
to his feeling's. Gentlemen agreed that the
time was arrived, for placing the country in
a date of defence, and declared themselves
ready to adopt certain measures for this pur
pole. For these profellions he gave them due
credit, but their measures were not adequate
to the objed. He never would agree to de
clare that this country could not or would not
protect its commerce, nor alfent to a process
of outlawry againd all the merchants, mecha
nics and fai ors in the United States. He
thought it not very honorable to fay to the
merchants, " proceed in your commercial
projects, and in the event of yourfuccefs we
sxp'etta portion of your earnings to bellow
upon the protection of the other classes of the
community." The farmers of this country
would never find an interelt in holding this
language and they had too much ge«erolity to
adopt it. From the nature of the landed in
tered, valuable as it certainly was and condi
tuting the balis of all riches, it could not be
pretended, that great sums could be drawn
from it for sudden emergencies. I f loans are
wanted, the merchants are able and willing to
lend, They cheerfully support a great (hare
of the public burdens and if we could not
(helterthein from deltruflion it was a weak
ness over which he (hould mourn in Silence but
which he wouid never think it politic topub-
Itm-fO the world.
Mr. S. Smith wilhedtohave rifenbefore r
the gentleman from Conne&icut (Mr.
Allen) to have expressed a firgla fentlmer.t,
with the hope that the que (lion might have
been taken without further debate ; but«that
gentlcm-u had taken such a wide field of de ;
claniation and irritation, that he had loft all
hope of fpetdify takia» the qucllion. He
was of opiuion with the gentleman from 1
Pennfylvaniayellerday (Mr. Sitgreaves) that
this was a time in which they ought to a3,
and not to make speeches. The obferva ions
he wilhed to make was that we have alrea- 1
dy a Naval Establishment of three frigates 1
and two cutters, in the law for providing i
which, nothing is said to reilritl thrtr being 1
employed as convoy*. There Wus a cliulv
of this fort introduced into the bill; but the
Senate disagreed to it, fcnd this houfc con
curred in the amendment. It would be an
extraordi ary thing, iherefo.e, to prohibit
these twelve v fTcls from being employed as 1
convoys, wbilll the three frigates and two 1
cutters were Kable to be thus employed.
Tlure would be a coatradiftion betwixt the
twolaut. ' ]
/This Dr'jatt to ke amiinutJ.) <
Just Published,
Aihl to be had at the Book-ftor«l of Meflri. Dob
son, Cav.fbj.ll, Young and Ormhoo,
in Philadelphia v
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Care of Remitting «r Bilious i
Fevers.
To tvbich is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op.nion* and prjiiliccof
tUfferer.C authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib- a
iting intereftingfa&s and rtfle&ions relative to
the Synoclvs Itferoidtsy or Yellow Fever, Which 1
ita* fo much *nd mortality, i:
at different periods, in fcvrral of the fe*port
towns of th« United State# i»f America,
dy WILLIAM CURRIE,
Ftflow of the Philadelphia of PhyCcians,
and of the •-Hicrican "Philorcphicoi So-
Feb. i—ii
f Xi)C ®wtte.
1 -
; PHILADELPHIA,
'V ' '
TUESDAY EVENING, Mat i.
1 y U a numerous meeting of the citizens of the,
[ county of Monmouth in the State of New-
Jsrfey, it the Court-fioufc in Freehold, con
j vetted by publ:c notice, during tht fitting of
i court on the lstb day of 1798.
: Eluha LawrenCl, tffj. in the chair.
' This meeting it of importance
j at this *in»e to aid the government and couh
] cils of the country, f<j ; far forth as the fame
r can be done bv afiurances of the confidence
and sup port of the people.
Do unanimously resolve that all the de
partments of the government of the United
| States are pofTefTcd of the entire confidence
of the persons compofmg this meeting ; and
, that they will to the utmost of their ability,
f support all such measures for the protection
I and vindication of the rights, liberty and
1 independence of the United States as the
houorzble the President, the Senate and
House of Representatives may recommend,
or ena£t.
Resolved, That the chairman do figo the
1 foregoing resolution, and transmit a copy
thereof to the Prelident of the United
States, and both Hoiifeb- of Tongrefs.
By order of the Meeting,
Eli.sha Lawrence, Chairman.
ADDRESS
To the Citizens of Massachusetts.
Citizens !
We are informed by the communications
of the enyoys extraordinary from the United
States to the republic of France, that they,
have been refufed an audience, and treated
with a niarked insolence and contempt by
the French direflcry. ,
Our eiituys haVe been told by the agents
■ of the French government, that we are a
divide4?people ; that they have here a party
so numerous and devoted to their mandates,
as to be competent, by the aid of diplomatic
intrigue, to overawe our constituted autho
rities, and didtate their mealureJ.
The dirediorv by their agents afFedt *2
confide r us as a colony to France, or as a !
pecpie tributary to her, and under her.con- ,
troul ; and they assume the right to levy
contributions upon our country, under the !
deceptive mafic of a voluntary loan. They
required offour envoys an advance of mpnqy,
equal to thirty three millions of Dollars, or
one hundred and seven tons of silver ; or in 1
other words, one hundred and seven -waggon
loads of dollars, carrying one ion or twenty j
hundred we gilt of dollars each ; fee the
estimate below, founded 011 M. Y's. written
propositions to the American envoys, con
firmed by other parts of their communica
tions.
This prodigious amount of money was to
be the price cf their being recognized as en
voys from the United States, or having the |
privilege of admission to the directory. Hav- j
ing paid, or agreed to pay, as far as they
could obligate the United States, this enor- ,
mous sum, as a preliminary point, they were
then to be allowed to state the objects of
their mission ; and would then only be in
rule toleainwhat further requifition3 cur
generous allies would please to impose upon
our country. And left' this insulting pro
polition should rouse the indignation of our
envoys, they were reminded, that iimilar
impefitions were laid upon all other nations
who were honored with the patronage of
France, or admitted to htr embraces, and to
deter them from rejecting the base requjfi
tion, the fate of Venice was pointedly Hat
ed to them, as the puni/hment referred for
our country, if they refufed to comply
That is ta fay, we might then expedt to be
conquered by France, to be divided inta dif- ]
tridts, and fold to other nations who would ]
bid highest j for such was the fate of
nice. j
But the free citizens of MafTachufetts, ]
indignant at the base insinuation of our be- ,
ing thas humiliated, and impelled no less by
their feelings than their duty, will declare to ,
the directory and the world, that they are 1
not a divided, nor a dependant people ; that J
they hold not their liberty under the patron- 1
age of France, nor are their conflicted au- ,
thorities dependant on her will, or their 1
measures fubjedt to her diiedtion. We are t
an Independent Nation, fubjedt to no laws, i
nor any government, but those of our own c
making ; aud it is hoped and believed, that
the citizens of Malfaehufetts, generally,
will afTure the President and Congress, by
manly and spirited addresses, as thq/ 1 - of ]
Boston have done, that they will support the c
meafu es, which the national government, q
in their wisdom, may deem necefTary, to
promote and secure the intcreft and happi
ness of our country.
ESI IM ATE
Of money required by the Agents-nf the French DirrOory g
of the American Errvtys, <ll a preliminary gratuity f
from the United States—as fated in the communications l
from ihe Envoys, pubtifhed hy Corgrtfs.
1 hirtytwo.millionsol Florins fnDutch
rescripts, dutfromHollandtQFran.ee, \
to be purchafedof the latter withiafti, a
naloan to France, at4Cctmsper florin,
is in dollars, 12.800.Q0e r
As o .°po uerling, as a present to the
Direi&orf, for their own private pock- 1
Ct \ .... lll.m
Twenty millions of dollars as a loan
the tuppolcd aoount due from France r
so citizens of the United States for vef
fds aiKl piopsny capiured by French r '
cruizeri, againfl taw, and for ldfipliej v
lurnilhed to the I reach upon contract c
and othef wife, with other demands not
dilpyted, at leift a0.0c0.000 t
Dollars ;i 3,02 j ,222 1
N. B. The weight of 1000 dollars is cflimated v
at 6s pounds; at which, the above sum if thirty t
three, millions of dollars, would be equal to 107
toiuof fiiver,and wouid take 107 waggons, catry- j
nig a ton weight of dollars each, to trai.fpoi t it.
' (CI. Cent J
From the SaLm Gazette.
Mr. Cufhing,
A certain great divine (in his own cpin
ion) publicly affirmed, of late, that he i»e-
* lieved that lhe itivafion of England
by the French Would be crowned with suc
cess ; urging, as 3.renfon for the faith that
<was in him, the necelfity of reformation
in the English Church !—What a devil
of n reformation that must be, which be
gins with denying the exigence of a GOD ! !
BITE 'EM.
e . *———■—
BOSTON, April 15.
" Extraft of a letter from an American gen
s tleman, whose information and opinions
are entitled to great refpe&.
London, February 6.
- ," By a late law the French have authori
" zed hfie capture 1 and condemnation of all
e Beutral ,veffcis, with iheir cargoes, which
" shall )iavt on board any thing manufaftured
or produced in any part of the Britilh do
" minions, orpofTcffions, so that oui. property
1 is in fadt exposed as much as it vfrould be in
: open war. This mifchief will probably be
foon iucreafed by the Dutch being compel
> led to pursue the fame mcalure : For a
1 twelve-month pail the Dutch have refufed
' to com:r.it thedepredatiousonneutrals which
' the French have done, but they can refufe
no longer. The men who dared to disobey
■ for a moment the commands of France, are
arrefled, and will either Se put to death in
Holland, or ftift beyond the sea to perish in
• xile.
" A revolution has taken place at the
Hague fimilarto that which took place at Paris
—after thearreft of the vvhole commit tee of fo
reign affoirs, and twenty-twp members of
the Convention, the following decrees were
pafkd :
ift. To faiidliwn the arrests. 2d. To a
boliih the state fovereigntics of the several
provinces, and conlolidate the Batavian na
tion : and 3d. To require an oath of hatred
against the StadthoMerate, Federalism, A
rillocracy and Anarchy.
Charles de Lacroix had beenfent to the
Hague this business properly done.—
As soon as it was accomplished he congratu
lated the Convention upon the triumph of
Liberty, and gave them afTurances of the
protection of their faithful frieiid and ally."
" Our envoys are Hill at Paris, and hea
ven alone can tell when they will leave it.
This, however, is certain, that the objeft
of their million will entirely fail, and ifa
ny benefit accrues to our country from their
1 labors, the merit will be their own, for no
j common degree of patience and fortitude
i wonld be fufficient to bear the humiliating
; and ignominious treatment they have endur
ed for so long a time, without a hope tofup •
1 port them.
j " The Empire have given full power (as
demanded by France) to tticTrdcyufica at
I Raftadt to conclude a convenient peace, in
-1 stead of one founded on the integrity of the
Empire.
" Switzerland is yielding to the intrigires
and terror of revolutionary France. There
prevails an opinion, however, that Berne,
with the Getman Iportions of the Cantons
will give a serious, and perhaps an effe&ual
! opposition to this etflavingenemy, but I con
i fei? my own opinion is different The very
rods and mountains may be overthrown if they
are f.rfl nndermined.
" The DiredWy have not yet succeeded
in their doings againit Hamburgh, and the
other fjree towns, Prufiia,Hanover,Saxonv
and Denmark, think therafelves abie to main
tain what is called the line ofneutrality, and
upon some (hew of their disposition to re
sistance, the French liave suspended their
projefts for the present, and even affedl to
be angry that their good faith is fufpeded.
It is not to be doubted however, that these
projeftswill berefumed, whenever their arms
whant employment."
" Notwithstanding the preparation forin
vafion, and the dcciees and manifestos of
France, England remains calm, and the
public opinion fixed and steady; Stocks
have varied a very little thefefevcral months,
but have risen in price l "
"A new inftrudion concerning'the
trade of neutrals, has been ilfued by the
king in council. It permits neutrals to go
direst from the Weft India Colonies of
Fiance, Spain and Holland, with the pro
ductions of tkofe Colonits, being neutral
property, either to British ports in Europe,
or to tjie country to which such neutrals be
long : but if bound, from the Colonies di
rest to other ports of Europe, they are
liable to be brought in for lawful adjudica
tion. lam of the opinion, however, that
in this cafe tKe cargo would be restored, if '•
on trial it appears to be neutral property."
WALPOLE, (N. H.) April 17. ' '
If a war should break out between
France and America, it would afford a fine !
opportunity to our youth for manly exer
cifr ; to those !
41 Who, living dully fluggardized at heme, i
" Wear out their youth wuh thapel&fs idlcnefs." 1
A rage for levelling science, as well as •
government, to the lowest capacities, is a '
featnre of the present times. We have •
books, whose titles indicate that they are (
deligned for those who can scarcely read.' 1
We have " Every Man his own Lawyer." ]
and " Every Man his own Phylician."
The jacobins propose (hortly to publilh a \
smutty work, to be entitled '• Every Man 1
his own Negro."
Of the Chronicle scribblers it may be ob- !
served, in the words of Dean Swift, j
" These faftiaus undertaktrs of the prtfs '
write with great advantage ; they ftrenu- -
oufly afTnm a thcufand falfehoods, without '
fear, wit, conscience, or knowledge ; and '
those, who answer them mult be at the ex
pense of an argument for each ; after
which, in'the very next paragraph, we fee ]
the fame assertions produced again, with- ]
out the lead notice of what has been said to
disprove them." 1
A Country beat to be Let,
THE ftrfl House in the Village of Germastown, 1
si uated an the right hand fide of the Road 1
—together with five or fix acres of X>raf» I.and.
tu GEORGE LOGAtf.
aprll 2S *
From the Miidifex (Com-J Gazette*
t THERE exifls in this country a party or two
i And each has itt oHjefl, and each has its wiew.'
1 To the Jacobin party you know I belong,
. For, by nature, I uke the fide that is wronjr
, Against us are pitted the good, and the great'
The lave rs of order, the props of the state. '
These fellows intend to leave uj in the lurch
As sneaking as girls, when confefling at church -
Bat we will convince them we'll hold up our
noles. •
, Tho'the devil himfelf all our plotting difclof*s.
Our government', deem'd an Old Craft by'
these clubs— ' '
They greafa up the axle—<we split off the hubs—
7bey whip up the cattle to drag it up hill—
! We throw down chock under the
wheel-
This cart, we coritend, was most wretchedly
made, " '
That its ti-nbers already are sadly decay'd,
That it %/pokes are all luofe, broken down ate the
ruiwj.
And nothing is found but the tongue and the
naves.
And firtce it has (hewn such a pronenefs for
wearing, ,
Our club hat refolv'd, it is not worth repairing i
We ha ve therefore deter min'c| by one mighty lift,
To tumble ij over over, or fct it adrift.
The federahft's pbn ,s a ftrangecne, I own,
For when we fu crabbed,and factious are grown,
Fha fc neither their threats, nor their coaxing
can move* ,
The fcoimdre's will hire uj their mea/ures to love".
And no Jacobin ever a bribe could refill.
No, not if 'twere offcr'd by Pelzebub's lift.
Thus Mr.Eauchet.in, his flour-merchant trade,
Found Randolph hung back, when he wanted
his aid i
But yet, when the patriot told him his frier,
Ffinn the bargain, the Frenchman tlew off in
a trice,
Rcfol A! a while longer his dollars to keep,
Tiio' Edmund was willing to fell him dog-cheap.
The house, too, they view on the fame i'curvy
plan,
A kind ofexcrefceoce. likea mart on a man,
Like a wen on an ox, or a corn on the toes,
Or a carhnxcle hung to a dram drinker's nose.
They baSvn in the habit of borrowing as
much <
Ready rash as they could by the w»yoftheDutel>,
But since poor Mynheer has become f<tns culotte,
He hasloii with his brcechesboth guijder&groat.;
While grandrramma Europe, flripp'd down to
the bone,
Much fonder of horrowing'than lending is grown;
And flill-fcarcer with us is that " root of alt evil,"
The widow of mammon and child of the devil:
So that nww it is obvious to eVery eye,
That the stream has dry'd up and the grift has
g neby.
Besides it w<ntanfwer to flrain over hard,
Left they tarry away all their fails by the yard,
iAnd give a chance, now and then,
to pop ki
An anchor of brandy or a barrel of gin ;
Hejiceitis these idrne fellows are ever contriving
Soaiejsian for preventing our calling from thriv
ing. ■ L:
Since this creed we all hold, bo:h black, red and
white,
«To Ileal,from the public's a Jacobin's right."
Thus they tax our inolaffea to keep us from
cheating.
So 'tis plain they're refolv'd we ihall pay for
good eating.
Our fogar—owr fait, as if like Lot's wife,
They concluded us pickled for tlie reft of our life.
And ingettingtheircalb ihey've adamnable way,
' That is— the molt easy for people to pay;
No w a tax that's diredl I advocate laying,
That each may enjoy the full plcallir« of paying.
And give occupation to fberiffs a score,
Anu countr) colledlors a thoul'and or more.
Thus to grind down the poor to their own na
tive dirt,
And strip a poor fellow that has not a Ihirt.
At the opposite parly I'll just take a glance,
They were hatch's by Genet,whea he firft came
from France.
One rfei'er need look at a prettier let,
The fire, and the brats, are " hail teliows, well
met."
I'hievct, bankrupts, and drunkards, pick-pock
ets, and all,
Well branded with brimftoue, and cropp'd at
the fall.
We do all is our power to perfua le the blind
people,
That Adams's legs are as long as a steeple,
That he flraddles about at a terrible rate,
Now over a puddle, now over a gate ;
While " toe u.an of the people" great Jefferfon,
pale,
Works along like a tad-pole,by wriggling bis tail.
These arHWrats, too, are an infoleut rate,
They won't e'en permit us to spit in their face ;
In Congress, behold a greit Lyoh appears,
From licland import ed, a iApurchas'd<withfleers;
A stream of mundungus not thinking of hurf,
He just took the licence on Grifn old to squirt
When lo 1 the fierce Yankee flew into a paflion,
And gave the bog-trotter a notable thtefning.
TheiCiMG of the Beasts moftlufiily roar'd,
At his arn y acquaintance, the OLD Wooden
SwoaD.
No christian, I'm fure'sthis Conncilicut shaver,
He ought not to grumble, but swallow the slaver;
The tellament fays, you lhould tuin 'tother
cheek,
And not go to using the hickory stick.
But in order to carry our schemes to tffefl,
We'eroblig'd to conduct with peculiar refpefli
One weapon, all-potent as wielded by us,
Is preaching many le<3ures on guarding thefnrfe,
A nd so far our plan cf oeroHomy reaches,
We intend toa'colilh the wearing tfhrcccbet.
Another contrivance we mean to pursue.
Which h%s hitherto ferv'd us, wet.ope 'twill Hill do.
Our dead and alive country has funk in a trance,
Asd has left ail affodion for fighting and Ftance-
Our farmeis too ftemto have outgrown their merit,
And given themselves up to a peaceable spirit.
But feme how, or other, we'llbreak dowuthecharm
Make them handle the mulket, and give up the farm'
Tisthe duty ofall.if the Frenchmen mould need "en» •
To offer their live« on the altar of Freedom.
' ("is to Franceyou're i»debtedfor allyou have got,
Your friedem, religion, ycur farms, an</what not.
And jisthev once bo't you in cur firm opinion,
You're their Caves, fird by put chafe, artd then by
dominion.
These being the fails, you perceive my intent,
If once you affront them, they'll make you repent;
These fans-culotte's butch rsare terrible herpes,
More valiant than Cxfar 8, more bloody than Neroes,
1 hey'll come over on rati s, or perhaps oa the ics ,
As thick as mufquitoes, ot Pharaoh's lice.
In time then be wife—mind the w or Js of my text-
Go to France in the firft place —to ut.ii mtheuext.
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the member! of " the cor
poration si r the r elief of poor and distressed
preibyterian minifttrs.and the poor and'diftrenea
widens and children sis preibyterian mil iftcrsj
that a meeting of said corporation is to
en, on the i6th day of May next, at 4 o c ock
F. M. in the second prefbyieiian church in the
eity of Philadelphia, foe the dilpaich cf all lucn
business as may then be brought 1 e
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
SecreUry of the Corporation.
April 7 . uwti6mXl)e ti
PHILADELPHIA, I
n a
T,UESDAY EVENING, May i. t '
At a general meeting of the young citi- (
zens of Philadelphia, of the Diftrift of e
Southwaikand the Northern Liberties, con- . 1
vened by public notice at the House of Mr.
Cammeron, Shippen street, April 28, Sa- I y
muel Relf, Chairman, Edward Bridges, c
Secretary, the following resolutions were i
proposed and unanimously adopted : viz. t
id. Resolved, That in the opinioh of «
this meeting, the measures pursued by the 1
Executive of the United States, to effett a
reconciliation with the' Republic of France,
have been the result of wisdom, integrity,
and patriotism. 1
2d. That, under this impression and con- ,
siding in the wisdom and integrity of the
government, we cheerfully pledge ourselves
to obey wi-h alacrity the firft summons of
oar country, in refilling the invasion 01 a
foreign enemy.
2d. Resolved, That a committee confid
ing of fix persons be appointed to draft an
address in conformity to the foregoing refu
lution* to be presented to the President of
the United States ; and that Samuel Relf,
Edward Bridges, Charles Hare, John Wood
ward, Charles W. Goldfborough and Rich
ard Rush, be the Committee for that pur
pose, with inftruclions to report at the next
meeting.
Adjourned unitil Monday evening next,
at seven o'clock.
According to adjournment, on Monday
evening, April 30th, 1793. u wards of
800 young citizens cf Philadelphia, &c.
aflembled ac the house of Mr. Cammeron,
Shippen-ftreet ; whereupon the committee
appointed at the last meeting, for the pnr
pofe,«reported the form of an address to be
presented to the President of the United
States, which, having been twice read,
was unanimously agretd to.
The following resolutions were then pro
posed and adopted, viz.
1 ft. That a committee confiding of three
persons for each ward of the city, fix for
the Northern Liberties, and the like num
ber for the diftrift of Southward, be ap
pointed to present the address to the youth
of Philadelphia and Liberties, between the
ages of 18 and 23, for signature.
2d. That the committee appointed to
draft the address, be authorised to nomi
nate the foregoing committees.
3d. That the committee appointed to
draft the address, after the signatures shall
be obtained, shall give public notice there
of, and of the day on which the President
will receive the fame, in order that the sign
ers may attend when it is preented,
4th. Resolved, T hat the proceedings of
the present and preceding meeting, be pub
lilhed in th? public papers of this city, with
the signatures of the President and secret*-
ry.
SAMUEL RELF, Chairman.
Edward Bridges, Sec'ry.
Bacbe's account of the meeting at Came
ron's is totally falfe. He knew it to be so,
and therefore it is that he adds the salvo of
not pledging himfelf " for his accuracy in
minute particulars." There was no dispo
sition shewn to buttle the person who moved
to strike the word wisdom from the resolu
tion ; arfd so far was lie from exprefling a
desire to state his reasons, that when called
upon to d® so he refttfed. He was indeed
biffed, but the firft sentiment of indignation
soon gave way to a desire to preserve the or
def and decorum of the meeting. No vio
lence was offered to his person nor was there
any attempt made to injure him in the small
est degree. Whether this is a minute par
ticular, I shall leave it to the public to de
termine.
This contemptible foreign tool goes on to
fay t\at young men between eighteen and
twenty-one, ought to know that they art riot
entitled to the rights of citizens, and that
therefore it is improper in them to give in
ftruAions to the government. They are
fully sensible of this, and in the address,
which was unanim.-.ufly agreed to last night,
they declare that they " do not hold them
selves competent to form an opinion refpedl
ing the measures of the executive" but on
ly express their " coufidence in his wisdom,
integrity and patriotism" and their readiness
"at the call of their country to affembl?
with promjptitude, obey the orders of the
constituted authorities with alacrity, and on
every occasion aft with all the energy of
which they are capable." The young men
between the age of eighteen and twenty
one, are liable :o be called into atlual ser
vice ; there can be no impropriety in de
claring their determination i.ot to shrink
from the task in the eves of. any other than
an infamous mifereant who wishes the de
&ru&ion of his country in otdtr that France
may rife on the ruins of its greatness.
With refpc£l to the-ftory about the huz
zaing of Mr Jeflerfon, if it has any truth,
it must have taken place afttr the business
of the meeting was doled. I was not then
present. However this is probably one of
the " minute particulars.'*
The meeting last night wa3 composed of
at least eight hundred perfens : the greatest
order, decorum and unanimity prevailed,
nor is theie one of the " half fledged men"
who i 9 not as much fuj erior to Baehe and
Callendet as honor is £up;rior to infamy.
ONE OF THE MEETING.
George Cabot, is nominated by
rhp President of the United States, Secre
tary of the Navy.
It is fafd in a Baltimore paper that there
are oae hundred and fifty privateers belong
inglo Guadeloupe fthich take and carry
wvery vessel that comes within gun(liot o: 1
the shore.
Vefterday, 'he Hjufe of Reprefeutativesof n
the. United states went into a committee of t<
the whole on a bill fupplemenury to, and tl
linking alterations in an act for the relief of h
perl'oni iiiipiifoned for debt j when, alter c
considerable difcutlion, a.id adopting several c
amendments, it was recommitted to a
(elect committee. The bill from the Senate
to authorize the President of the United States
to cause to be purciufed or built a number
(not exceeding ten) of final! veirels, to be i n
equipped as gallies, or otherwise, for wjiich ,
it is propoled to appropriate 80,000 dollars, 1
was committed to ilie committee of the whole
tfti the ltate of the Union ; and that committee
[ was dif'charged itom the further conliderition ,
| of the bill authorizing a provilional army, and
it was referred to the committee for the pro
tection of commerce and the defence ot ,tlie
country, te report such alterationsand anittid
ments therein as they 'hall think proper. "
The Argus of yelterday states, that Mr.
Livinglton the prtlent memberof the House c
of Representatives from New-York, is re
elected by a majority of about two hundied
votes.
t
Dispatches, to the 6th of February, in
clusive, from our Envoys at Paris, have been j -
received by the Executive—purporting, j
that as they were niii unacknowledged by ! (
the government ot France, they had detei- i |
mined to apply for puffports to quit the
country as loon as poifible.
The President of the United States and
his lady—-the Heads of Departments, the
Speaker of the House of Keprdentatives,
and many members of Congress will be at j
the Theatre this evening.
St. TAMMANV'i DAY. 1
There was a refpe&able appearance this day of
several <*«tachmsnu of the Artillery and other uni
forme J Companies of this city.
Error of the Press.
In the Address of the Inhabitants of Pro
vidence, publilhed in ytfterday's paper,
for difgufling apprehensions of hoftiliiies,
See. read disquieting apprehensions, fcc.
Extrafl of a letter dated Cape Francois, the
izth April.
On t ,Satiirday last anchored in this harbor
from Brest, three French 4+ gun Ihips, the of
ficers of which bring accounts that out com
miflioners at Paris were received, but treated
very indifferently ; one of them with whom I
was converting on that head, seemed to fignif-y
that they had nothing to fear from them, and
1 that thev would have to return without any
kind of fatisfaition : likewise that the least
particle of Engli(h manufacture in American
bottoms fubjeits vessels and cargoes to imme
' diate condemnation, and that all contrails
' made with them by the Americans are to be
paid punctually, but not a word refpefting
old debts. Good God ! It is aftonilhing to be
. eye witness to their unjust, illegal conduit to
wards the Americans ; there have been ten
r or twelve prizes since I have been here, among*
which are capt. Crane, in the fchopner Yeat
" mam, a schooner of capt. Bails, bound to Go
-1 naives. Captain Crane is the only one clear
• ed.„ An Enghih flag of trucx is julf come in
to the harbor.
P. S. I. learned alter sealing the inclosed,
that a new c'ovnmiflary is arrived in the sri -
gates. Our black general, Touiflaint, has
been defeaied in an attempt to invade St.
- Marc, with the loss of about 100 a men ; they
, are now enlisting every Frenchman in the
f (Ireets, in order to make another attack. A
j gentleman of about 30 years of age is now
here from Boston, w 110 has been so illy treated
j by government, that he is become quite de
; (traded, and this morning made an attempt
- I on his life ; he is not yettlead—but fortitude
J1 in this cafe, is truly neceilary ■ when I reflect
1 on their malicious proceedings, look around
] on all fides, and fee their abandoned princi
n pies, together with their antipathy towards
our country, I am ready to exclaim, wlVere
are the men who yet relpert their cause, and
- would not be converted at what 1 am wit
e ness to."
Saturday last returned from a cruise, the x
. General Greene armed cutter, capt. Price.
Extra£l of a Utter from a refpe&able mer
-0 cantile house at Baltimore, to their friends
j in this city, dated 26th cf April inlt.
t "We have this day received a letter from
t Cape Francois, dated 10 th in ft. which fays,
three frigates had arrived there on the 7tf)
e in 46 days from Brett, with General He
. douvillc, who came in the quality of chief
agent of the directory for that Colony, itid
promifea a fpeer'y restoration of order and
punftuality in future contracts made wi h
neutrals.—-This may serve to betray the cre
! dulous for a ceitain time, but we are afraid
• 3 to trust further to these promises.
e "A schooner juftari ived, fays Iwo French
e pri< aJßeers are off our Capes, that he spoke
n them bath, and was afterwards spoke by a
( f Britifh'frigate, in company with two other
n frigates, so ihatour coast seems ciofely watch
ed."
THE young men
k Of this city and luburb> who have afTociated
for the molt noble and patriotic pnrpofes, wi'l
n not feel themselves debased,' or fuflcr their ar
•- dor to be abated by the low abuse and afftdied
e contempt of fuen a thing a 6 Bache. This poor
creature whofc register of kfamy and falfhood
.. is rapidly finkiiig to its diflbtution : who is bim
felf as deep in ruin as he is in difhonur, and
■ , will fliortly exhibit an awful pidlure of the con
s temj.t and mifiry into which ihit man mvift fall,
! > who devotes himfelf' to the interests of a foreign
'f country, to ihe deflruiSiou of his own ( whole
d fjjr ce and fufferirgs will furnilh a mem-ento
,f of the indignation which Americans feel against
thofe who dare to vilify their aoun:rv, ind ex
1 prefsauifh to proftra.e her at the feet of fu-
J reign insolence, ought not to tx ite any rcfeiit
n.ent even in the ardent breafis of ylVtiffcfiil
3 patriots—Let them puttue their course <tf hon
or and independence, and pass this harmless,
h:fiing fnske in contempt.
Nothing can display in a more firong or a
more' pleating view, the spirit of national hon
or and independence that is pervading the Unit
ed States, than alli'ciations of fim
i-ar to that mry set on foot, f am informed,
that between rhree and four hundred attended
j the firit meeting—Although the ardent and gen
erou.-ffirit that glow s in the heart of a young
, man may fomet.mes had into trifling indifcre
£• tions, yet the ei ror is always on the fide of vir
tue —it will have nothing <,( rxeanvefs <.r eetlet:-
| iatirj treason in it— The ftntimeut is gfnvTi' y
noble, th-viph it m»v fometirr.es He too Irgh ( C
toned —There v .ire few young tr.-ritirs ; t;n e's v
theyhavc fptnt their earlv year 1 - in France; nrd
been reared- and educated under examples of
cunning prudence, and" in the maxims ©f hypo- .
cricy and the witddm of fair appearances
priCe of stocks." J
Philadelphia, April 28. j J
Sit Per Cent. '5/
Phree per C.<nt. 9A
Referred 6 per Cent. 12 f9 j 1
BANK United States, 10 per cent.
Pennfylvauia, 23 per cent.
North America, 50 per'cent.
Insurance Co. Pennfylvauia, 71 to 10 per cent. f
GAZET TE MARINE LI3T. J
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. r
a
ARRIVED, Days ; {
Schr. Hetty, Mufon, Savannah 7 ■' t
Regulator, Corry, Norfolk 3 , t
CLEARED, . j
Ship Columbia, Lelar, Batavia j
Schr. Maria, Brown, Carthageru 1
Rambler, Weave*", Georgetown, S. C. j
Peregrine, Sears, Bolton
Sloop Sally, Gardner, New-London
Capt. Mason informs that on the 23d init.
I he spoke, going up the river to Savannah, a
| (hip out 40 days from Bristol. —25th, lat. 39,
j spoke the brig Beaver, Elliot, out 5 daysfroin
hence to Savannah.—l7th, spoke the fehr. j
Anna, out 4 days from Charleston to Nor- j
folk. Left at Savannah the iloop Robert, j
Briggs, to fail for this port next day. | t
A three mailed French-privateer schooner,
of 14 guns, was captured on the 9th inft. 15
leagues to the southward of the Capes of Vir
gini3, by trhee British frigates—The priva
teer had captured a brig apd a schooner the ,
evening ptecedi tig- -names unknown.
t\ letter fron Curracoa, of the ad infant, is '
silent respecting that place being attacked by
the Britilh, as reported by the lad accounts ;
from La Guira.
Ne<w-Tart, April 30.
ARRIVED, bvys.
Ship Rcbecci, , Havannah 23
Murd-jck, Tred w ell, Calcutta i»8
Harriot- O.r, Glifeow sft;
Brig U««, -i South C'O'K 1 * 8 ? j
Dean, -, Savannah 6
Schr. S'. Patrick. , Curracoa i 5
Sloop George, Geer, Baltimore
In a gale, ccpt. Orr, id lat; 54. long. 21, fp.ike a
ftiip from the eiftwaid bound 10 Liverpool, out (si
day®
Abont the filttof April, spoke the Savannah, of
Savannah.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, April 26-
WEST-INDIA NEWS.'
£A UT He nT I C.]
[TRANSLATED >r the CHRONICLE.]
Ejctrafts from the Bulletin of St. D itningo, from the
27th February to the 19th March, 1798.
CAPE-FRANCOIS.
LIBERTY. EQUA.LITY.
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
; Copy of a paragraph of a letter -written by the
commander in chief of the army of St. Do
mingo, dated 26th Pluviofe, 6th year, to
Brigadier general Agee, chief of {he Staff
of the fame army.
" Head-quarters, Dubiflon, at
Mirebalais.
i The republicans of St. DomingOr hare
jiift shewn for the third time, their Superio
rity to the thrice perfidious inhabitants of
: Mirebalais. The Grand-Bois attacked by
' the chiefs of brigade Christopher Mornet,
I and Paul Louverture, are in our hands ;
they took 142 prisoners, belonging to
t Grand Bois and Trou-d'Eau. Brigadier
; general Moyfe rendered himfelf master #f
| Efcahobe, and took about' forty prisoners,
among which are fomcSpainards ; after the
s taking this important pest, that general
; continued his march towards Mirebalais ;
1 «on his way thither, he reduced the Gas- ogne
and finally united hi-; forces with- those of
\ Brigadier general DefTallne, a battalion of
whose column had taken a few days before
the Post of Brianon. There remains to be
, taktn, but the fort of the Borough, which
g you saw at the time it was not quite com
plied, and which being so now, is the in
n terior Gibraltar of Sc. Domingo. It is de
fended, by four hundred men that seem de
- termined to refill bravely. They are cut off
from all succour, and I hope ere long to be
f master of that strong post.
j Greeting and friendship,
j (Signed) Toui/fant Louverture.
A true copy,
The Brigadier General, chief the ftaff
j of the army of St. Domingo,
(Signed) AGEE.
h
e Copy of a letter written, to the commiffitner.
# Raymond, by Brigadier general Laplume,
r commanding the diflriS and dependencies of
_ Leogane, dated at the head-quurters of
Carrfour, the fourth Ventoje, Jixth year, of j
the French Republic one and indivisible.
Vidlory, my dear Commissioner ! the
d camps of Coupe aud Nerette are in our
1 hands. The army under my orders took
them by storm after a bloody and obltinate
conflict that lasted four hours and an half,
j The camps Grenier, Fleurieu and Digna
rou, in the plain of Cul-dc-fac, were evacua
d ted. I sent the partllulars to the Cotnman
-- der in chief, and Jdefired him to
!> them to you.
n Greeting and refpeft, (Signed)
* L A PLUME.
rj The Secretary General of the Commission,
(Signed) Pascal.
- Extra 3 of a letter written by the commander
' in chief of St. Domingo dated at the cdmp
Mauge, the 18th Vmtofe 6th year, direSed
' to Raymond.
j " Thatiks to the genius of liberty, we
. have tsken the Citadel of Mirebalais ; a
- fine train of artillery and good ammunition,
- are the fruits of our conqneft ; which we
• are indebted for, to the perseverance of our
troops, who were never dispirited at the
* fatigues of a long siege, and all the inclem
~ ency of the weather to which they have
. been expufed night and day. The enemy
- that evacuated it, and who amounted to
r 35c bu;:'g armt, were fyuudly beaten by
Genera! Deflaline. Their loss in killed, . '
w ;undid and prisoner = , is eftiroated at IJO. I
The remnant, efcaped-from that abyss, soon
fell into another ; I do not know yet hdw
they extricated themselves.
Greeting and refpeil. (Sisrned)
TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE.
The Secretary General of the Commidion,
(Signed) Pascal.
ExtraS of a letter from citizen E. Viau, dated
at Gonaives, 6th year. 1
«' Our brave Republicans have obtained
frefh advantages over the English ; fotnc ve
ry important ones, among which is the camp (
Martineau, were wrested from them, thanks '
to tlie intrepidity of Gen. Deffaliue, and e
tthe brave foldierj of the column j
niands ; whilst the army advances in- part 1
against Arcahaye, the other takes an offer:- «
five position before St.Marc. All these mili
tary arrangements give us room to hope, .
that thenational flag will be soon seen flying
i on those walls, so obftinattly defended by I
traitors and their cowardly seducers, A true '
; copy, v :
The Secretary Generalof the Commission
(Signed) ______ Pascal. (
From the New-Tori Daily Gazette.
Important faS, with refpeß to ike
YELLOW FEVER.
On the 14th of July, 1796, the Amer
ican prisoners at Algiers, with a considera
ble number of Neapolitans, who had been
' exchanged for Turks, left that city in the
fliip La Fortune, Capt. Calder, for Leg
horn.
| About two" hours after hoisting fail, one
of the Neapolitans was seized with the
plague, and, apprehensive the contagion
would spread among the crew, they put a
bout thi <hip, and stood for Algiers, in or
der ta land the Neapolitan—after which
they proceeded on their voyage.
Next day another Neapolitan was discov
ered to have the plague, of which he died
1 fhortlv after ', and the fucceedirig day capt.
' Baily, one of the prisoners was fcitel wjtb
1 the fame difeefe, and also died.
The forecaftla was then converted into
an Hospital, and two Americans who had
had the plague in Algiers, were appointed
to attend them. Great precautions were
taken to prevent the disorder from spread
ing. The crew kept themselves in conllant
motion, thtir clothe? were aired, and the
decks kept cop.ftar.tly washed. By these
means its progress was effectually checked.
At this period they altered their courfa ;
and as they knew they would not be admit
ted into the port of Leghorn, they stood
for Marfeille3, where they were obliged to
ride quarantine eighty days.
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, {landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan.el Lifter, of Hackney, in the County of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten shares—No. 2150 —13066 to
1307J, ten shares—No. 2149 —13056 to 13065,
ten shares—No. 1148 —IIJO9 to 11518,'' ten shares
—No. 2147 —H471 to 11480—Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
fh-p Williau Penn, which having been captured,
said certificati-a are supposed to be loft ; for thj rt.
newal sf which, applicaiioa will be made to the
Board of th« £aid company.
Daniel Neal ■ Lifter.
may I *d6w
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the summer feafbn or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy {ituation, aoove the eight mile
rtone, on the Gcrmantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with ftabftngfand ton
: venience for keeping a carnage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar. W. Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fuhferiber, on the preinifes.
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN,
may I law^w
I A Watch Found.
: A WATCH wns fund lad autumn, and has
, XJL since been left with Rev. Mr Eunis, of St.
Mary's; the owfwr,*on application to him, and
paying the expence of repairing and advertifiwg
: the fame, may receive it again.
t may i. *eo3t
• Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
HPHE iubfcribvs bein» the fix perfans firit rymed
JL in the Letters Patent, iflucd by the Governor
of thisComfnonweal.h, by virtue of the Aft.of Gen
p cral Affcmbiy ef the i6ih ult. for incorpoia the
' Comp«nv —liereby notice agfeeable to the 3d
feftionof the iaid law, that tl.e/ have appointed, and
hereby rcqueft a meeting of the fubferibers at the
Stat; House in the City of the thirty
firll day of this inftaut May, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, for the purpoCet mentioned, in the said 3d
{eftion, which is hereafter publifhed'for the inform
f ation ot the Stockholders.
Riefcard Peters,
John Perottj
Mcittbeiu M*Connelly
William Sheaff t
r George Bickbam,
f William Nichols.
r Philadelphia, ift May, 1798,
' 3. And be it further enabled by the authority
f aforejtid, That the fix Persons fir It named m the Let
s ters Patent, (hall as soon as conveniently may be af
jer fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pab
lie News Papers in Philadelphia, onewheieof (hall
' be in the German Language, of a time and place by
r them to, be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time 4[ ifTuing notice, at which time and
a place the said subscribers (hall proceed to organize the
: said Corporation and (hall choose by a majority of
• votes of the laid fuhfcribeis by ballot, to be delivered
- in Person or by Proxy, duly 'U'horized—one Presi
dent, tweWc Directors, one Treafu er, and such other
officers as they (hall think neceflary to conduct the bu
" finefso'the said Company for one year* and until o
-1 ther offtrers shall be chosen, aqd may m«.ke such bye
laws, rules, orders and regulations, not inconfifleot
with the !«wj of thisCommonwe kh, as (hall be ne
ccdary for the well ordering the aifairs of the said com
pany : Provided always, that no jttrfon (hall have
, more than sissy votes at any ele&ion or in determining
any question arising at such meetings whatever nuni
ber of fharei he or, (he be enticed to, and that each
person (hall-be entitled to one vote for every (hare
• by hina or her held under the (aid number.
) F R eTHTTAI
' MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends a,-.d the Public, th-t he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
1 At his Circulating Library, No 7; North Third
: flreeti where he will be bappy to ex:cuft their
Orders for fliie-flavoiired
IMPEUIAL. HYSON,
YOUNG HYaON, /_ r . _
HYSON-SKIN, C IAAS >
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderat«.terms.
' Coffee. Chocolate and LQjf S';g:r.
•t april ij. enfltftf
NEW-THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, May i.
(UT PARTICULAR DESIKX'J
Will be prcfcntatl, the "favorite TRAGDOY cf
ISABELLA ;
Or, THE FATAL MARRIAGE.
After tne Tracedv, wi'l he urefentrd,
AN OCCASIONAL INTERLUDE.
Particulars will be ext>refTed in future* b:lls.
To which will be added, th« COMIC QPiiAA of
The PADLOCK.
gV On Wednesday evening, a Comic Opera,
(nora<Hed riiefe two years) ca'led LIONEL AND
CLAJUSS-i ; Or. A SCHOOi. FOR FATHERS
—with a Pantomime (never performed here)call- <
ed FORTUNATI/S; or, HARLEQUIN'S WISH
ING CAP—wish a variety of Entert&inaienrs —-
Ejw the benefit of Mr. Warr«li., and Mr. Wat-
R ELI., jun. . .
*,<* Mr. and Miss Milbourne's Night will be
on Friday next ' r
JUST ARRiV KD,
fa the fcip Phoenix, capt. Grice, fjom Amsterdam,
2 hoxtsSiamoU I hhd.Hogs Bristles, >iil
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. 2 2 do. do. ai do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and
Cream Cheese in prime I z chelft firft quality Red
orderfolr exportation Crulk
also,
Just Received, via Baltimore, &c.
50 bales brbwnTicVlenburgs and hempen Liuci;?
10 bale* German Ozaalrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Hefiins
is bales Polish do. suitable for coffee aDd cotton
bags
ao bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached Hsffar.s
J package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces Madrafs Handkerchiefs
1 aheilTane&j No. 13, 25, "See.
1 package cotton Lindieys
JSO boxes Window Glafa, 7 by 9, 3 by io> 9 hy
11, 10 l.y it, 14 by »6, t6 by 18, &c.
JO chef.s plain and Siwereii half pint, pifit and
quart Tumblers
ao «3»ei!s Looking Glaffe*, alTort'ed
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chaft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A'cargo of piinic Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 1a cwt.
20 pipes old Pot
A few quarter cases Sherry CHINES
60 cases White (
aoo boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
300 fnia'J boxes Ruflra Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 calks Roll Brimflone
40 kegs yellow stone Ochre
Ijt k. gs Pearl Barley
3 hogihtada Madder
1 cheil assorted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper
10 cherts Slates and Pencils
ao trunks Mens' ami Womens' Shoes
bo Silver Watches
i hhd Coffee Mills
a do fiftiing and blocking Twine
a chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Deuiijohns \
A quantity of llone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Englilk Chariot aad Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in complete fettafor a, 4,
or 6 horses.also Whips, Spurs, &c.*"
The above Goods are generally entitlsd to draw
back, are suitable for the Eall India market, and
wil| be fo'd at reafonible prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
April i<i. t&fut
ilrael Morris }
igainft | Maryland.
ThomasMargatroyd, James Bell, j In Chancery,
Marlkall and Benjamin Smith, ; March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, | ' 1798.
deeeafed.
objetSl of the bill, is for ibe Complain
nant, Ifriel Morris, to obtain relief agair.ft
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December,: 178:, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum ■of £.700 principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, -tint the
Complainant aligned, by way of fccurity for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Sam'iel Downing, for the fnm
°f /£•350 that the said Tucker received of the
1 money due on the said lall mentioned bond the
lum of and nestleifled to take for
1 obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became infofvent.
The hilPftaies that all the defendants, are
now refidentix>f the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged ar.d ordered, thai he
i caule a copy of this order to t*4nferted, three
r weeks fucceflivefy, in some neu fpaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,.
■ at any tiirve before the ft.tt.day of May next,
I or served upon each of the defendants general-'
1 iy, before the said day ; to the intent that they
: have notice of the complainants application to
[ this court and of the substance and ohjeit of hist
I bill aud inay be warjied to appear , here on or
. before the thjrd Tnefday in Septembar next, to
(hew caufc, wherefore a decree lhouid not pafi
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cwr. C*u
atiril 3 ctyjw
FOR SALE,
v Two three itory Brick Houses
. With convenient fiores, wharf, 3te. fituiteon
- Water ftreat, between Mulberry and Saifjfras
Streets, containing in front on Water flreet fit-.
1 ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
' ward ninety-fivtf feet, then widening to the
J south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
. have the conrenience of a publ c alley adjoin
t ing on the north fide, and area very defira'olefil
-1 uation for a a merchant, flour Jailor, or others
- who may have occasion for florage of goods,
r Tbn properly will be fold on very reafoaable
• terras for ca(h. For further information apply
" to the primer.
" april ; m°-wtf
; Landing at Wain's wharf,
; From on board the brig Eitterprize, capt. Lang
-5 dor, from Jamaica.
- 60hogfheadsof good SUGAR, and") Entitled to
1 60,000 wt. of prime green COFFEE j drawback.
" And For Sale ky
WHARTON & LEWIS,
No Ii ?, South Front ftreit.
Who have liiewife for fait,
. A quantity of 4th p o.f Jamaica K.um
' MJaffes, and
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil
\ few bbls. excellent Limes
' a P r '* 14 ' eolct
"" S ALT PEI RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
Jama 6*. & Samuel IV. Fijhcr,
No. 13, ArchSuect
. march 31Fcr Sale,
new f a ''' n s
JOHANNA TUCKER,
- "IjHyniS-L— Fa\ncis Days, Majlrr,
NOW lyng at Pine Street wharf—her length !•
ftxty cighfcfcet, fireadth twenty feet fix inches,depth
righ feet nine inches and burthen one hundred and
four 69-95 torn. For terms apply to the Master
on board, or
GEORGE PLUMSTEP,
No. 168, South Front Street,
april 16 §4t
JUST ARRIVED,
Id the brigGayofo,capt Bingham, from St. Martini
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccelient quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty caflta Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
No. 7,1, Little tVater street, South,
april 10. §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- j
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of flails aflorted
10 bales »f fail canvaf#, from No. I to 8
53 calks yellow ocbre
I j lierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Madeira Wines
India market >
TenerifFedo. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineti &c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and9inch cablesand 10 coitsof cordage
Writing fiates, ink Stands a .id prelfes
io purcbeont Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles lheathing paper
Tfc[E BRIG
AMAZON,
for Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in (S* Griffith.
april 7 tuth&f.tf
FOR SALE.
\l) do"b^} Havannah Su g ar
200 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aitive, Will
iam Williams, master.
e f ®rigfbr sale,
And may take in immedi
- atcly after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingf worth & Co.
marcn 3d. §
For Hamburgh,
" T H E S H I P
Dominick Terry,
j°^ n Fleming, Majler, '
great partof her cargo en*
gagtd.—For freight apply to
JeJfe (5 s Robert Wain. l
February a 6 f,
" WANT ED, 1 ' j
APPROVED BILLS onAmfterdam—for which
cash will be give;i at the rata of thirty seven cents /
prr guilder. Enquire of the Calhicr of the Bank
D f the Unitedst&tes. § april 23.
LANDING, *
From on board the £hip Elizabeth, captain Faiflic,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
also, o(
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD pi
JOHN MILLER, jun. th
'april 17.
Thoi;.as y Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE, m
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee t5
cmps and saucers 01
Nankeens, black fattins and tafKties
Pungem cloths, choppah rotnalls, and bandannoes
China and Englilh umbrella*,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Sd. tod. lad. and lod.nails
Shot—T. Crowley fleet, Spanish brown and white J
lead hi
Erglilh fcythes42 to 50inehes hi
ALSO, pi
in barrellsef kiln drye«t Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet, 1
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. Jth jjtf
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, CHISMUI STREET, Cl
1 X Calks of Carolina Indigo, c(
. Which will b« fold on realonable terms on a ftort a ,
credit. Cl
Robert Henderfon. w
\pril_a mw&s4w b
JUST RECEIVED] ~~ °
FROM ro R T-A U-P RIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRIC£RS t b
II o hhds. Coffee t
46 tierces do. n
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
no hogsheads of M ufcovado Sugar 1(
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of MolafTes *
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogflieads of Cocoa a
WILLINGS & FRANCIS, [
Penn-ftreet.
march 11. $ si
Pennsylvania Holpital, 0
\th mo. ith, 1798.
Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi
i tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next J.
Month, being the second day of the week, at the r
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to *
tied tivelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the ;
ensuing ye«r. t
H\ Dr.hr as a beard of Maftartrf.
SAMUEL COATES, Src'ry.
aprili7 dtE
NOTICE. ;
ALL persons who have any demands against
th* estate nf Willaj; Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafet!, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly "attested ; and those wJto are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate f
payment, to 1
GEO. DOBSON, Z
No. ij, So. Tbifd-flre«t. > r
January 4. dtf
, TREASURE DEPARTMENT,
S | MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A<S of Cangrefs pal Ted on the lixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
j ninety-fevea, entitled "An Ail laying duties on damped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
is j A A palled on the fifteenth day of December, ®ne thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
h ' "An Ait to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Ac! erti
)d tied "An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Psper", thai from and after the
tr firfl day of July enf.irtsj, the several Stamped Dutias h.reafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout tte United States.
:t. For every Ikin or pieceof Vellam or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, upon which (h.'.1l be
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writineslollowing—to wit:
- t D/s CtJ. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, .... - 5
Any Luence to praiflice,or Certificate of the enrolment or regiflry of
any Connfellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proilor,ire asyCourf of the
United States, ... *. 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of th£ United States
for one of thefaid Offices, ihall so far as rel*tes to the payment of the
Jury aforefaid, be a fufficient admiilidn in allthe Courts of the United
States, for each afid every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military Cervices) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services ) «
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLcgacyleftby any Will or 0-
ther tettamentary instrument, or for any lhare or part of a perlor.al estate di- r
vided by force o! any statute of diftrrbutiens, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereoflhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and fliall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - 15
When the amount thereof ftull exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and •
fliall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... jo
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any Ihip, vessel or
goods inluredfrom one diftriiSl to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, wh<;n thefum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 25
When the sum inffcired lhall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature fotver, that ihall pass the seal of any
e Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the the of the United States or some particular Hate, - 50
Any Bond, bill or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or made to or with the United StaUs or any state, or for their
uferefpedlively, ......
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, i 0
And if above one thousand dollars, - - • - 75
PrtvitUd, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes iball be fubjedt to o/ily two fifth parts of the duty
afofefaid —viz. - -
ff above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It aboTeoue hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 10
If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 20
' If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued by the banks now eflibliihcd, or that may hereafter be eftab
liflicd within the' United States, other than the note* of such of the said Banks
as ihall agree to an anQual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeilively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - o
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - * 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars} - - 1
Any Proreft or other Notarial a£t, - - - ■ 15
Any except ior an invalid penfiosi, or to ojstain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as "bounty for services -O* 1 l -™"™
performed in the late war, - - " ' 4 5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - " • 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dol.ars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, " " 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exporter,
U from one diftri& to another diftria of the United States, not being in t^e
fame State, " " 10
If fronr the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 25
! Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furnitur'e, goods or effects, made in any
eg re required by law, (e*cept in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
I rent or taxes, and goods takes in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share i». any Jnfuranee Company, of a /hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and Rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ... 2^
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred ctollars.
IJ.
The duties aforelaid will be collected and received by the Supervisors, Infpedlors aud other Officers
of tnfpeaion, in the several Diftrias, Ssrveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t» time be appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftridts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifsrs of the several DiflriiSs will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pradicable, mark orftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
ftampod vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at tfie option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervitor, Infpeaor, Officer of lufpeiticn,
or other purfon appointed for the dillribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
GIVEN unitr my Haud, at Philadelphia
t!ji day and year altvemeniiot^d.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. • Secretary as the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engagetl to'give him everyilfiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,~
VROPOStS TO PRINT BV iUBSCB IPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To it puWifhed every Wednefiiay and Saturday <
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (whoielale) at PhiUv
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, withtbePri
ce« Current at London, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The ratss of infuranee—the price
of (locks—courfeof exchange, &c. &c. Like wife
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as lhall
bp thought ufeful and important—and the remain
derof the paper will be appropriated to advertife
ntents.
The price to fubfcrifiers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hoti
fes, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub-
Icrib'ers at a greater ditlance will have it sent them
agreeable to their direilions—to pay t>.-o dollars at
the time of fubferibing, and the remainder at the
erdof the year.
The publication Ihall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
£? It i» from the advice and to gratify the wilh
ef a number as mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publishing this Price Onrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be moll material to fend abroad
111 the firft two pages—appro jriating the other two
to such matters as nay be mare immediately do
mestic, and to advertiferaents.
Subscriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-flreet,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. athisoflice inChcfnut
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff'Js and
Winds in the doors, with or without harness.
Fr.tjuire of Peer L'mcrickhoufe, Arch, below
Ziith flrect, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR ir. HAINES'
april 1 *aaw3w
Frefli Teas.
Juji Imported, in the Jhip 'Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Caliton,
And For Sale y by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. J4, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hii Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and fmperial-TEASi
ALSO,
China Ware, alTorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Naakeer.s, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone fiicks.
They have also For Sate,
EJI wide Pc.rfians, Ban4anna Handkerchisfs,
French Cambricka and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
AtWiLLiAM M'La.v/5 Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direS from the Manufacturers in London,
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Coders, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, otc.
A P ril 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commissioners, for cleansing the
ftrects, ice.
Diflrlfl No.r.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
' 1 From the south fide of M»ilbrry street, to
the fsuth fide «f CSefnut ftrreet,,tobe under th«
j fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3- From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
of Joleph Claypoole.
j 4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cefor street, to be under the fu
penntendance of Hugh Roberts.
£5" When pumps are out of order south of
High-flreet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of Sooth and Fifth-ftreots, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High/street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saflafras
ftreet, bijwecn Sixth and S-.venth-flrctts,
, TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
i "yHAT byanaifl of Congrcfs paired on the
: X I9ih (by of March, 1798, the following
' a tc-rationj and amendments have been made to
the lift pal Ted on the 6th day of July 1797, e
n: titled "An aifl laying duties on ltamped vel
' " lum, parefcmint and paper."
r.
The (lamp duties 011 debentures or sertifi
: eatei for the drawback of Cuftoinj or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the SupervifoH
"cr Infpe<*Jors refpetfively, to any persons other
than Officers of jhe Revenue, , who may pur
chase at one rime or procure to.be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
wljlch the duties ftiall amount to Ten Dol
lars or.upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will j>e provided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch •
(bent, or Two Hundred Cents for each flci* of
Vellum of medium size» which may be furnifti
ed at »he expense of the United States and pro
portioniHy for any lefler quantity.
Give/i under my baud, at Philadelphia, the
day avd ieir ahoTementioned.
' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of theTreafury.
TO BE SOLD,
4°>939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Penrfyl
vania, on the watsrs of Fiill and Wheeling
Cieeksani Ten Mile Run.
Thcfe Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 3700 acres, which were patentad i.i 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongihela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhingtou, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greer.tiburgh and Wheeling.
";On payment of One fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reafbnable credit will be given forthe reli
<fue. Enquire of the Printer,
april it. i
~~~ TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or lnte in the townships of Hamdcn *nd
Warren and county of Warren.
Xbefe Lands, from thfir quality and situation,
are a very desirable object for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the pnrchafe mo
ney, a rjafonable credit will he given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April 21, §
Ross y S
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales fuperi or Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baftas, Coflaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
april 20 §
L A NDING,
From ®n board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
33 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 5
Alex. J. Miller & 'James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller y Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frent Street, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtmsnt of India, German, Irijb, French and firi-
HJb Maqnfadturesfor sale, on advantageous termr
for caih or a ftiort credit.
Febrnary iq §tf
JUST RECEIVED, ~~~
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dohfcn, 41 South Sccond-flreet and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price 5-3ths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive ?
By a Lady of Bojlen.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Altufion to the fusrounding Profpeift—lnvocation j
, theaivar and sylvan Deifies—to the Historic 1
Mufe—Fidlicn.discarded—Dedication to Wash- 1
ington—The Aftion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfenification of Fortune and Fame—
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the ;
chief Command—Formation of tha Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britifli Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter. of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic ApofcropTie to the Frogrefs of Free
dom throughout the Worjd.
march 30. t
For Sale,
Thesargo ofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSISTI NG OF
Ca»*accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. in, South Fourth Street.
April 23 $
\To be Let,
(And pofleflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three flory brick House, i
42 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables,at present in the tenure of Major
son. Enquire at 187 South Third fttect.
April 2* §
just FuBLrMED, ~
AHD FOR SALS AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 25 Cents)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
OF file. CONDUCT Of THR EXBCVTIft,
, As publilhed in the
GAZET TE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In ivoicb tie Commercial Warfare of Trance is traced
HiLe French Faction in this Country, as its Satrc:,
and the Motives oj Gpprjitinn,
march 30. (
[_ln the press andfoon will it publijhed,]
WILBERFORCE ON RELIGION.
PROPOSALS
BY J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut street, Philadelphia,
FOR FUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Pra&ical View
OF THE
Prevailing Religious System
I OP
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
CONTRASTED WITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY.
Br William Wilberfqrce, Esq
Memberof the Britiflj Parliament.
Search thi Scriptures.—John r. 39.
Han> charming is Divine Pbilofophy.
N?t barjh and crabbed at dull foals suppose,
But musical as is Apollo's lute,
And a perpetual feajl of neStared/meets,
Where no crude furfeit reigns.
Milto*.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed with a handfomf
Pica type, on fine paper, and will form 1 volume
of 400 pages, large oftavo.
It will be delivered to fubforibers for one dol
lar and twenty-five cents in blue boards, or neat
ly bound and lettered, for one dollar and p
half.
1 he London copy fold (when it was to
be bad) for two dollars ar.d a half.
£s* The British Reviewers announce this pub
lication to be oneof the nrioft ufeful, elegant and
energetic, on the fuhje<Sl of religion, that has ap
peared within their memory. The'reception
it has already met with from the public, flrong
ly corroborates their opinion, for it has, in a few
months, run rapidly through four large edi
tions in London.
The publisher flatters himfelf, that as soon as
its merits become generally known, it will be
read with as much avidity in America as it is in
Europe.
apr'l 16.
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, situate on the eafl (Ide
of the main street. running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for'y yards beiotv Captain
Furbee'sTavern, coutainiog in front on said street
thirty four feet, and extending iu depth <*ftward
twelve perches, the buildings there
on ereited, which confiit of a good brick koufe,
two stories high, well finilbed, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen fset square each, and a
passage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchen ; a back brick building with two rooms
above and below about tsn or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of this building communi
cate above (lairs with the passage of the house :
A brickfmokf house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpeit as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good Ctuation,
■in<4 now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with tke sign of thi Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefnb
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 27. tus4w
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fij»ht of Ger«
mantown, end about five miles from the city ;
the whole being under good Tenet, and in ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliott CaeSsoN, at his Office for the
sale of KealEftate?, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-street.
4th mo. 3d. tu&fnt
For Sale,
A Farm and Country Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, seventeen miles from Phir
ladetphia—the farm contains 19$ cc csof land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of m?2dow, and
the reft arable land. The house and garden which is
large and well paled, stand hi the molt pieafam fiui
ation, commanding a view of fho river, an island
which is opjjofne, and the village ot Norm- town-r-
There is a (had fifhery belonging to the place—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the oreroifes.
April 1 6 lawtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafra* Ri
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of |OO
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stabiesfor fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Com houses, a Smoak
lioufe , &c. &c.—The whole Kftate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herringfilhery. It is
conveniently fit jated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a ftiort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will b» fold together, or divided into
fmailer farms (for which the buildings arc conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of.— For further
particulars apply to George Hastings, on the
premises, or tothefubferibef, in Pkiladelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvn.
February 24. gawfrw
Bafeenrid^e —for sale
IT conCCs of 910 acres, jlmofl ali of which i*
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Karl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixidei
into five farms, four of which are bounded on th«
Ea!l by the river Pafaick.
Th'r* are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of mcarly three acres—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one andja fmallexpence would
nut it in complete repair.
Theswhard confiilsof JSOO fi:i»hc»ring en grat
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pwtsotiaid
trail near 300 other Apple Trees —as allp a great
varie'y ef other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
btft and mofl delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of be- itiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its fiiuation is abeut l 3 nules
from the townsof Newark and Elizabeth : 10do,
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—»
13 wooded and watered.
To fayc trouble, the price is fivepound pr. ace
in cafb, on delivery of the deed%. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfout trset.
j- February ». ecJrt