ttE * m ® nit« States,«. Philadelphia bdily Advertiser,
JOHN Fenno. ru*r m „
Numbe* 1674 j
w
Custom-House Sales.
On 7 maar y '3. 1798.
N Mond. y , the of Januity, ,708, at .2
« clorck, win be fold by public at
v-i'iiom-Houfe, ln purfuuttcc ot the laws in that ckfe
msde and provided, the follo-«iog articles of mer- >
- ch»»klum., hivmg-bcro m-.re than nine monthi
"° by the owner, or coolignees thereof,
, ic h , c e* may be viewed during the space of
three day* antecedent to the day of sale, between the
hours of nine and two o"cl»ck.
J®'' T W(> cases, containing Woollen Hatj
M p C One cafe, cootaining Books and Pamphlets
R P Three caiki, containing Girth Web
(DU) One cask, containing Spades and Sboveli
W Four calks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
* »nd Beans
IS One keg of Red Leadj
O WC Ooe crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. do.
WL One do. and two cases containing Images and
ornaments for building °
[No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
r tight Hampers of Empty Bpttles
\VB One cask of Bottle 4 Porter
Tho't Ste; hens One bundle, containing pieces of
Mafic
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Au'oley One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine v
-yP One box of Pewttr Lamps
B One box containing Brashes
G. Bolland. One calk containing ajchtefe and feme
/ oatmeal
yR Oneerate'of Earthen Ware
R . 14. One crate of Earthen Ware.
'3 dtj 9
THE SUBSCRIBER §
INTENDING to leave this country in the coarse
of the summer for Europe (if hi compleats the
fettlemcnt of his affair« by that time) and where it
ir. probable he may refidi as a merchant—rrquefts
every man who has any demands against him to .
come forward therewith, in order thit a final set- 11
tlemcnt may tike place f
GEORGE MEADE. t,
, Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1798. tl
TO BE SQLD, b .
On F9IDAY, the 30th of March n£xt, at his '
dvreliing house in Chefnui-ftreet, four deors a- i
bove Tenth-street, eJ
All his houfhold and kitchen
Furniture Plate, &c. &c. and which may be view
ed every day for three days before the sale, from »F
ten o'clock in the morning till one e'clock, and ' n
from three o'clock in the alternoon till night.
TO BE SOLD BY PRirATE SALE, r
And if not fold by Saturday, 17th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
in Walnut-street, two doors below Fourth-street;
— is now occupied by Dr. Stevens for one year frem
4th November last, at the rent of 4001. per annum;
it was rented at the time of the late fever, «'r it
would have brought, I think, TJje two, _iS
Stables in Wal ttrect win no uj> l«p»riteiy
61 t«»fF«ther ; the largest one now rents for JSI. the
fmallell for 451 per annum, and they are arched
and laid in mortar and two inch plank, and the r
cellar will hold about 100 pipes of wine, which 1
was once offered 601. perannHmfor. AlargeStorc
in Fourth flrcet, 33 feet front by 50 feet deep, a
good yard and necefTary belonging to it; on this
store is a ground rent of 11 dolls. 75 cents per ann. Ali
this bailding is rented to the public for eighteen Lo
months at 2501. per annum, and the rent was paid foil
down ; it might have been rented at the fame price
for three years, but I declined it least it might hurt
the fate. A lot in Fourth flreet, 20 feet front by con
50 feet deep, en which is a ground rent of 6 dol Ful
lars per annum; it has the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoining the lot.
Should it make any difference to the purchaser,
Mr.Meaoe will endeavor to prevail on Dr. Ste- "
vens to give pofieflion sooner, if he can with con- f"
venience.
tatments.
Approved notes and indorfers at 6, 9, 1 a and 18 11
months; the deed to be lodged with Wm. Tilgh- V
man, Esq. till the notes are paid : On the house, Sevt
Edward Stiles, Efq has a mortgage for 16jol. On I and
the flables, Mr. Samuel Williams for 3001. Theft Ticl
sums may lay as long as the pur chafer pleases, pay- I De'l
ing the interest regularly. ing
For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh- ton,
man, Kfq. or to the fubferiber, Chefnut, four J tion
doors above Tcnth-ftrret. I ries
GEORGE MEADE. Uni.
" FOR SALE—the following I
Trails and Lots of Land, dif«
Of an excellent quality. I Lan<
No. I. Fo«r hundred and thirty acres of excel- ! hy
lent Land, on the waters of Back creek, Frcder- I "°"
ick eounty, Virginia, on the great road leading to I
South branch, about ten miles from Wincheller ;
one hundred acres of which is rich bottom ; a fine
ft ream running through it, with several springs ; I
the trees in the bottoni are chiefly sugar maple, I
black walnut, hicory and locull; there is a log I 1? 1
dwelling and out houses, feme meadow made, and •"-
about forty acres of upland cleared ; on this trad: M h eri
there is a good mill feat, where an under-lhot mill '7' 31
might be erc&ed. I hege
No. i. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two ° f so
miles from Woodftock; part of this trail is in I 3c h* c
cultivation, is finely timbered, and a goodquanti- I he w '
ty of meadow may be mads. , I He d
No, 3. Two thousand five hundred acres on the vanta
waters of Hewes'river, Harrifcm county, state of I an of
Virginia. _ I and z
No. 3. Four hundred acres, in Bald eagle town- numb
ihip, Northumberland county, state of Pennfvlva- I arran
«iia. I the di
No. 5. An half acre lot in the town of Rich- I
-moiid, Virginia. I attenc
I house!
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE, ed at
The following trads of Land. cu £"
land in Walhington county 7 State of J
174,000 ,-do. Montgomery J Georgia I
3 1 >°23 do. Orangehugh diftricl 1 State of I
141,386 do. Charleston J So. Car. I
40,000 do. on the Alleghany r!Ver > State of I
.54,°°G do. Weflmnreland county J Penn. I
41,900 do. Wythe, Walhington, ■) State »f newal .
and Grayfoo counties J Virginia I ® toc h i
20,000 do. in' Bedford county. j wardei
All which he will fell on the most reasonable I J°h" 1
terms, and but very little money will be required, I Geor gi
the remainder may lay upon credit for 1,1, 3, or I on
-4 years, security being had upon the lands. I P a "age
January 13. dt2;th J clofu^ c
FOR SALE, " No:
Several fonts of Types—half worn. four n
Including I>oiig Primer, about 400 weight, in iflued
good condition, and would the purnofe of tenhar
a country printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer. rfov. 30. PhiL
PHILADELPHIA. SATURDAY EVENING, 9 8.
I? r* 1 r* «\ '- 1 ' "" " ' ■ 1 1
es. Public Sale of Real Estates.
1798. On THURSDAY Evening, the f S th of
98, «13 February nctt, willie «pofcdt»-i>«WtrSa!e,
°lbtt"cife CofFee-houfc in Becond-!?reet,
of m-r clock in the evening, the folio win?
le months M ESTATES.
1 thereof 1 „ 'j r " A tw ®'*6fy Wick-House, with » two
space of "ory frame Buildings, on a lot 10 feet front and
tween the 10° feet deep ; atfi>, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This'
its interest ha|s lately been let for 200 dollars per an
amphlets num. ans is situated in Christian-street, between
> *J° n o *,"? ?" ond Greets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Alh s.
Shovel, No. 2 A three story brick Honfe, f.tua'e at
d., Pea, non S raft " rDer of Chefcut Greets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 fset oaChefßut
ftrect, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
y u"X" nt °, f 400 dol,ar9 . aa£i is d«»ed one of
the belt Hands for the sale of dry good* in this city,
lageiand N °-3- A handsome well finiflied three story
brick House, 10 feet front and 10® feet deep, fitu
orter ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Areh
ftreets, No. 40. This house is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
>ieces of > . cd!ars under 'he whole. Theie it a cifte-n
of r ain water m the yard ; afcd the house is at pre
:ls vr dollars per annual with the taxes
No. 4. A three story brick House, Gtuate In
1 Uumb-ftreet, between Second and Third street
being so feet front and 13© feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
1 r r j Nn '/' A thr " C ftor >' brick °n the bank
ndfome fide of From-drcet, No. 171 North, going thro' 1
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 19
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
dt2 * IS or dollars per annum.
conditions of Sale are, one quarter calh,
O&e quarter Ifrp ftTOTlfirt. one (Jtrarrer in mowb?,
ift 12& month®.
: coxrfe Philadelphia, Jun m, 1748. *awti<F <
j- —Z- 2 £— *
•here it 1 0 be lold,
equefts A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- 5
binl to X X ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
nallet- story biick House and Kitchen thereon, an 3pple [
Orchard, &c. fibuate on the Irilh trail lane, in the
)E. townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from -
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
at his t ' lC Philadelphia Gazette.
sors a- The improvement, upon this place, for taste and '
elegance, stand unrivalled. M
, December 1. dtf "
:nen - ____ _ ; 8
view- The Subscriber intends to make
, from application for the icoewal of a Certificate of a Share
1, and 'he Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
pfA.B. N0.5004, dated July 11,1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. sg w
blic KOSS iff SIMSON, "~
lfe » at HAVE FOR SALE,
g A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and f
. ' ' a quantity of Bengal COTTON
t eet > Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes c 0
tram Jamaica, ■) faj
St. Vincents, i RUM.
0r it and Bengal J
: a J™ RICE, end
1 the ~P ar<:el °f /hip building RED CEDAR,
rched 3*21 T fan
fcM Chocolate and Mustard, wi
Store of a fnperior quality manufactured, I
ep, a /RINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
1 th ' Sal Pear ' Barle y : Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
ann. Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale • I
'teen London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine, l
pain loitahle for exportation or h»rne consumption. 1
price The highelt price given for Multard-Seed. .?
hurt Also for.fale, A quantity of Booking and 1
it by common Baizes, a variety of colors; a baleof °P C
d°l Fustians, Shawls, &c, for'fale by
;fßet JOHN HA WORTH, i
afcr 98, south Front-street. I
Ste- n °' V ' 27 ' m.&th.t.ij. I
con - Canal Lottery—No. 11.
?I 8 W LL comm(mc ~ drawing Monday, thezoth ,0
Igh- V V ln ft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery at Mi
.use, Seven DMars y at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
On and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street " ac
hef« I Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten I
jay- D,'Urs, where check books are kepf ior register
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhin!---
Igh- ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa- I wh '
our I tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte- I
I ries authorifnd by law in any of the States of the I
I Union.
I bufinef, of a Broker, in buyingand I
I fellfeg all kinds of Public Stock and Securities |
I discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
I Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly to,
eel- I fa y Wm. BLACKBURN.
|er- I November 15. 5
to * no
MUSIC.
5"; 7. L. LENZ,
pic, j Teacher ol Vocal and Inftrumeutal Mulic,
lo s? R FFURNS hisfincere thairksto the Ladies and
id(l I Gentlemen, from whom he received a very 1 1
adt liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci- '%jL
Till ty, and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub- I
I he generally, that, in consequence of the requefl I hundi
wo I o me of h« friends, he has opened a Musical I great
in f °, ' h'shoufa in Spruce Street No 174, where Willii
iti- he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.— sage,
J He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upoa the ad • J
he vanta S" 'he learner will derive from an inftituti
of I°n °f this kind; he will only fay, that attention I 1
and zeal are much excited in an aff-mhly, where |
, n I numbers are in pursuit of the fame ohjfA. His
ra- arrangement is such, that an iuterference of the | n ° v
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
h- I Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to F
I attend at his school, he will wait upon at .their
I houses.- Applications will be thankfully receiv
led at hi, houft, where his terms and further parti- JaS
I culans may be known. - ijpj!
of I eC *lweod
if N O T I C^T
,[ I A J ' L persons concerned are hereby, notified, w ,
A that the fnbfcriber intends to apply for a re- „
»f I newal of the undannentioned Toft certificates of J? 1 '
■ a Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for-
I warded them under cover of a letter addressed to — ~~
c I J°^ n Anfley,of London, by the ftiip Bacchus, capt. Fc
I, George, which lift this port in June last for Lo n .
r I don. But that (hip having been captured on he' .
I palfage and fentt.i France, the above letter and in-
J closures have failed in their deftinatiou. R*Pli
_ I Three certificates, viz. '}j
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four fliares, dated January ift- 1797, and Sails or
, issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- Paff3 ge
I tenham Highcrofs, Grsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia 1 ncvembtr 8. 2a»v6w
es - For Freight or ChaFter,
yth of Par< m
" and for term<a Fp l y to ' anJ u,ls faft —
! 9 tl7 S ' Jofepb Anthony Is? Co.
cr an- fanuary 17 ,<*
•tween —— :
:from NICKLIN GRIFFITH,
ate at At the ' C Store on Wa!nlJt StreetWJr,sf_
i n ZI4 ouj f > HAVE * OK SALS,
efnut- S J " hds - °/ Jamiica Rum
at the VV ' ne . in P'P« and hhds.
ae »f e do ' in P'P 6 *
scity. ort ) n hbds.
story m P er ' a l Tei in quarters and.eighths of chests
, situ- 5,4,1 <-anvafs, No. 1, to 8
Arch- Dimities, Gingkams. and Muflinets, in packa
ulhed . gd suitable for the Weft India market
with Najls ailorted
iftern Rlack quart bottles
: pro- Queens ware in hhds.and crates
ixes. Yellow Ochre dry in calks ;
tree", And at New-York, on board the
•efent ni 'P D'ana, from Liverpool, expsdled round I
as loon as the navigation is open,
bank * ,nt Liverpool Salt
thro' Cojls
is ii» Spanish firowO
tpair, Venetian Red
* KwSr t PAINTS
-- j
Coicotharritriol 1
j6o bundles Sheathing paper
Seamine twine
tain
pple Ship Diana,
1 the For Sale or Clarter. i
will ALSO, j
tf 'N. B. The late firm of Philip NicUin & Co.
- is now changed td
ke NICKLIN & GRIFIITH.
hare January 1. eodtf
ame 1 —— r—7 - -
ame For Savannah,
M - TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
j -1 The fall failing hip
Swift packet,
A Patr,ck Gribben,Mafter,
NO W lying the firfl wlarf below
"^* 3G=,a^ :^fa Market Street—has hatdfom# ac
commodations for paflcngers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Master on board, or to
N. & J. Frazer, m
No. 95, Sotlth Front Street.
Who have on hand, andfor Sale,
I Rice, in whole andj»*lf Oeorpii
_ j and Carolina IndigaV Molasses irt N hhds, Teneriffe
J I wine, Sec, &c
December i 7 3 tawtf. _/
or For Chafleftoru Li
:r » i THE SHIP p s
ie! t VENUS,
I j Iy'"£ at * '•vbarj ofMtJfrs. Pmtti
I CHJE will take Freip-ht on very
id O low terms, and fail the firll
of I openmg. Apply to the master on board, or to :
Jos. Anthony & Co.
I Detember 18
For Anifterdam,
I fa T R«
h - J OHN - M ' Co ' i - i -om, Master; tne
" fail in a few days, the niti
y j , greater part of her cargo beinja: one
1 read r. For freight Of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
" n Se ' app,y t0 the master oa board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to in S
JOHN SAVAGE. , Wa
1- wh o " Landing, out of the said Ship, from Boar- for
I deaui, and For Sale, g en
e Claret in hhds. -i
White Wine in quarter calks
Clarrt in cases, of a superior duality
'j: j Fontiniac, S
Sauterne, ( Wines in cases ™
Unille, S . T
j Prunes in boxes
november 24. r „ c "
ftrc '
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
SUKET,; At ti
William Wbittin, Master.
- j " A firong good vessel, about two floo
I hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a Oaki
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying' at shoe
Willing and Francis'swharf. For freight or pas- Alfo
fage, apply to the captain, or .
JOHN-SKYRIN, P li
Landenberger's •wharf. A 1
j 1 Who wants to Charter. Sh
I A Vessel bf about three hundred tons. amo
nov 18. 1 S
: mw,
For Sale or Charter,
&Mkj GOOD HOPE, Froir
Wi l carry about I*oo barrel*, arid
»» ready to take in a cargo. For terms Bonr
' a PP'X» IrifF,
Pragers Co. Med<
No. 151, South Second-ftree*. Saut<
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriflc wine-.
November 3. A t f
Sherr
For Savannah, in Georgia, Rota
Pl ' mei
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A Dew ve^'e '' witll excelleat A
'accommodations for paftengers A
Sails on the zoth of December. For Freight or an Ofli
Paflage, apply to b" SIMiON. a large
Who hau; to difpuj.of, or a b
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS Fifth-fl
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. Boa:
na-vembrr ig. § O/c.
» 1 The Subscriber
INFORMS tbofj whom it may tntcrcil or con
' " ra ' ■ tha< t,le Judges of the Ceurr of Common
J'*"" iwp.,Luftu Monday, ibc tlCnty ftx'.l <Jry of
February hear him and his Creoitces, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubj«ft of his peti
te *.ns iron /or the benefit of the lafolvcnt Law—and
la It.—, that their attendant® is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PMMptia, Jan. 16. Coti6thF
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the last will and teftamentqf
William Hdeceafed, and pofTVf
''l ffon given a valuable property in Arch
flreet, between Third and Fourth ftieets, confin
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ereiSed, a ftabl«, and other improvements
'fce house is 10 feet fr«nt, and contains tjrri good 1
•pahmgntfc Thelotisof the fame breadth as the
hens noulc and 109 fc«t deep, with a well of water and
a very capveious walled cistern, both with pumps
iacka- >n goop ri pair. Ihe Aahle (lands on the rear of
t the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
nage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Lh«rry Street. It« central pofitipn and the
advantages it pofTe(t?i with rcfpe& to free ventila
thf> t10 "' rcn [' er? 't weil worthy the attention of any
1 f e . n wifhifig to poflelian eligible property in Phi
ound | iadelpbia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
RdBtRT titVSiHAK,
„ ~o r f Ailing Executors.
Francis Bowss Sayr*, > J
' January u £
" w. ~—~ i
''*■ l .Deßacatbr of JDraiutns—Fror~- . _
(Where he ha< fttidied leveral years under ona of
ths molt eminent matters in that science) *■
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-commenc- v
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as ufuaj, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above ter/ns.
W. H. flatters himfelf hit terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those (hat employ him, as 1 _
he makes 00 additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line directed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. s lvr
~ FOR S -4JLEL
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fcf Co.
Np. 8, Chulnut-ftreet,
One hlmared and eighty bales cu
BENGAL GOODS,
01
rAmongft which are,
» Gurrah3 Mamoodies
t Baftas Sannas p r
>w Gurzt nahs Tanda Coffees cu j
ac- Guzzies Emertics
as. Blue Cloths Calicoes '
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
AmongCt them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. § T1
,ia N O Tl"cl **
fee ln(
me
ALL persons who have any demands against ner
the estate of Wiium Fleewtood, of bee
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- anc
ceaffd, are requested to exhibit their accounts, Do
properly attcfted; and those who are indebted int<
to the fame, are desired to make immediate On
payment, to cut
rt GEO - DOBSOn, J
l No. 25, So. Third-street. \ mim ft r r ' _1
to J»nuary 4. _ dt f
dancing SCHOOL.
cem
"" W rL H AM M ' D °UGALL presents his' peel
VV molt refpe.tVful compliments to his form- Stat
eir employers and the citizens in general, and re- *
turns his most gratefiil thanks, for the very the
bountiful encouragetneut he has expetienced for coni
tnefe twenty-five years part, takes this opportu- P'P
c nity of informing them, that his (chool is now "
g open, at his
Elegant l&atl Room y
in South Fourth-Street, between Cbefn.Ut and
Walnut-streets. To begin at loin morning
. for ybuhg ladies, and i'in the evening for yoang Wat
1 gentlemen. i Hilci
ec - aawff. • men
Lmployment for the Poor.
1 t . ~ - - try M * v _ • R ntt
FIAX FOR SPINNING, j Vi "
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth *
day morning,' between the hours of 10 and 11 — no
back of no. 51, south Fifth ftrcet, ahove Spracc
eodiw
Prison Manufactory. Fro,]
FOR SAL&, w
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dp to 2ody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sabers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables, M
tomb and hea , Ilooes, hearths, chimney pieces' 1
platforms, slabs, facia, window heaii, fills, c.' t? 1
All which mas he had on reasonable terms,'
Shoes marfe and Weaving done at said Prison at tH
a moder aCw price. again I
Orcfcrs from a ditlance, direAed to Daniel Tho- V nite
ma*, agent for the prison, will be attended to d , eme:
December 16 mth6m_
Imported inCru
Bev;amin Shewell, Master, " mea
From Bonrdeaux, andforfale by thefubferiber. " " f '
No. 11, Walnut Stieet. " * n
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~i " .
Iri'ffi market claret in cases / Entitled to Dec
Medocwine, in do. ( Drawback. "
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd. To ho
WHO HAS FOR SALE. an A
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks T N Cl
Rota do. (j 0- lcd >
Pimento in bags obtaim
4000 bufliels Liverpool fait. are rea
Aug. 24. tut&stf. ply wi
to Let, a»dth<
A front Parlour, suitable for JSS
an Oflier ; a Room, lurnilhedor unfurnifhad • and
a large Cellar, which will serve either for storage
or a bottling ceUar. Enquire at no. 34, Sou f h
Fifth-ftreet.
Boarding and Larding to le had- Enquire as a
°'C' J' da 6—* it Decc
I War-Office of the United Sute&,
"I!""' I ***"> January the iff, 1708.
r&vvM f "" ds h " v * breTr P««iTed, «n
' f?k Warrants for-Bounty Lands due
tVj.. e " the °® c " s =" d Soldiers of the late Continental
L P a rd t™!' t y r pr ° J ? aion of lor inftrumtnts.
and To check in future such impositions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all persons, having claim.
IF, for bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
" hF Ic S»' rcprefentative, or by virtue of any isftrument
I °L- transfer, be required to forward their
v rtfpedfcire claims to the War Office, on or befcre
lentaf the firft day ol January i 799 u, ordt . r tflat such
poflVf- claims may be duly examined, adjusted and deter
t Arch mined,upon.
""I"' . To f «^»ntiatef U ch claims, a ftrifi obferyance of
which I the rules heretofore lffued from the War Office will
uts. Ibe indifpeiifable ; and in addition to what is requin
good .1 ed by thafaid rules, the certificate of the acknow
a' , ~ ? '' mc i nt of aOeed or Power of Attorney, muil
:r and «Ub set forth the place of refidente and occupation
■umps of the clajipant or person makingfuch acknowledg
er oi m.-m; and when the pi oof of pcrfonal knowledge
a car- .* by a witnef* or witnesses, th-ir place or places of
"lege residence mull be set forth in like manner
tend- | JAMES M'HENRY.-Sec'y of War.
Ufc ( . d6w
an y J
Doctor Rush's
Phi " Literary, Moral, and Philosophical
Vine Essays.
f One Volvmi, Oflano.)
This Day is Puhlimed,
tori. By Thomas & Samuel F. Bradford,
c I Mo. 8, South Front Street,
n c/r r • * tro ° Dollars,)
EfTays. Literary, Moral and Philosophical,
Imi.l ■ 'Wi 1 »MII mi *<l m 1
■e of Aja Profeffoi; of the Institutes of Medicine, and
I Chemical Prailice, in the University of Pcnpfvl
enc- vania. '
Six In the Prcfs,
ies a And fpcedily will be fcubllfced
lint " PERRIN's
t Elements of French Conversation.
!" s Januar y l6 3*od '
French Circulating Library.
this J*
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
- No. lie Walnut-street
- TNJORMS those who wish to the only
I mean, of becoming pcrfe<ft in the French Lan
guage.that he ha, jnft o p ene d hi, L.«S? ton
fifting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best ca"
fut The °1- rither Ufefui
if tL IK eoßd,tloD ?' r with a catalogue
in town Llbrarsr ' may eD at evcr 7 book-fell^.
F n!i'n A 1! 'inflations from and into the French
To Cabinet Makers, JoinersJtfT
he Cavanagh & Hearn,
RFTrrew T' I"*" the New "Market,
t£> their friend s and the
Crv^ttSrssss
merit a continuance of their &y£
1 nerfhjp between them .uid Jofenh H R, r ,
of been dissolved by mutual consent C' 7' I'
! -d Hearn have j u | received a "It
r. Jan. *J*
■ ■ ■ — i 23W1W
tr The owners of the Brigantine
i
j the renders f° rt " f ° Wn ' u'
: b >' infcrti «* '
v ~~~ ForSALEr —~^ 3 • •
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
d A j££ COrn " ° f - Chc: " u ; and Front ft -ets,
\ Wat hes ge T antlt7 , Df C,OCkS
' Eiles arid
'2" tu » Stone, Cat Out; bencfc
T\ V T' Z
i * -Apprentices Wanted,
novembcr i,
■ : ffrtutf
Landing this day
Frotn on board th. fchoonenTwo Friend., Dan-
So hhds. anj ? J"'.
M pipes 3 RUIVJ,
for sale by
George Latimer Son.
uouember 9. ,
-tir FOITSALETTi 7 *—
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second street, the cornrr ru c \
R EPORT Of the Committee of th^'Houfe of
JV Representatives of the United Snte, ;lt "
ed to prepare and report Articles of lm™ p point"P oint "
again ft WILLI \M BLOUNT a
u a^lbclatestherein• , ' parties and
"asfcr? • f,h ' **
~ notice ~
To holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF
and EDWARD FOX's Engagement^
obtaining their Cert l ficat e9 ; a "« a bfeT n 7/ r ° m
notice. TheTrufteesnow inform tVeJ .h"
are ready to iflue the fame to those who m', X
ply within futydays, at No. g Chefnnf « y " P "
and those who do not, willbecnnfil a trfe^*
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate"f
provMed for their payment g " nd
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS
JOHN MILLER, JUN*
JOHN ASHLEY
J d6ot
[Volume XIII.IXC TOV iorrf :r, .v.. 11. j
LIST OF PtiUl AND Rlak-»». j
144 th Day's Drawing—Nov. fB. |
iVo. 1 Jolt. .V>. hols. Ac. Uo/i. So. Dots.
41 95J° *SY"f jGl*t 1 j
f)() ;o8 »6»u x **9 *
4«j x i«J7 * JI * 64
945 7S° ' 0 9 37 10 3 K
10-.j 11480, »7»jß 3859'
06., 497 x JU 33°.f*
n 4 * 615 . c>i9 x 08a is "y
18s 4}' £ " e
1 r ?*» 1 ca
663 x ' }II X 781 it
'i 2 x 344 Jf*4COW ■ n
Uta J44«6 **"■*»* I
54* »519« x 683 56* I ,
e 4l 414 x 831 x 77* »J ot
3 />* 7 800 9>4 ♦ I J tQ
AB7 16736 - 3°°^ l 99" it
4133 '77»7 x 3T71 * 4'6c4 x ec
rt'g 7J3 497 41657 a
3tß >8193 ao 898 x
505 x 19174 10 3 ,,0 5 x
Mj 411 181 x 730 ?'
537 1013(" *BS 809 x 1c
9i4 10 908 79* 44070 x p ,
5°73 95 7 *•'* X d
11131 JHSS 148 «
731 166 *°9 334 0
960 11117 57° 45079 .
6050 * 131 x 670 46666 x
150 x 179 !• 73 1 '*
410 686 33414 to 47 06 8 11
94z 13151 X 674 *37 4C o:
7824 x -96 x 3*°79 x 403 tl
2.1 JI '863 575 J>° 1 * b
719 X 144'3 695 48304 ()j
761 696 JC 35096 X 617 x
780 739 x , jBB 49358
9135 x 903 X 898 X ' r
aoo ,938 >. 983 I «
145 th Day'» Drawing—Nov. ap. h
*t6B x 13208 25330 x 4i9'» x p
407 »17 x 576 x A l sf7 f]
718 »,{0 x 743 -«i • tl
J* 76 353 *3l X *"3 .
l6 j 894 a 6.04* 4*13
439 x 90 j X 969 44gS
rl* •>»-• -■■ .■!)*»' noro .JL
49« 15808 X jo»ol x 4W5» X n
6785 15 '6397 x 838 598 li
714 819 31818- 94i x •
7»7t x 18601 3»449 x 46004 J fi
541 X 19J84 988 H6 X
8030 x 10117 33165 303
654 556 x 34081 * 346 b
818 <7l x "6 x 4,53 «
£49 97» 33® «7«®4 - o
9J9 11251 35810 671 x c
9549 x I*74# x 360)4 48108 £
10427 949 °?3 5'4 x .
667 15 »3701 Tij 780 t
891 718 <90»7 x n
11336 x 24108 9 01 4*4
487 X 247 38719 444 h
837 X 493 39431 539 (1
13137 25*81 6zo 749 x j
MarfhaPs Sales. „
Unite" States, \ ~ v
Pennsylvania Dijlria. \ t
.1 6 i ICE i» hereby given, that in purfaance of 0
A.S a writ to me directed, by the Hon. Richard
Pet-rs, F.fq. Ju'ige of th« Conrt of the
United States, in and for the Pennsylvania Dif- J*
triA, will be rxpofed to public Sale at the Cuflom- 1
house, oil Monday, the 19th day of January ing. 2
at It o'clock .at noon, t
1 box of Sugar
2 bags of Coffee 1 > 1
» 1 barrel, J
1 half barrel, and V of Limes c
I tub J , .
1 jars of Hacey
26 Pine Apples 1
' 1 keg« of Spirits c
1 keg of Sugar, and (
7 barrels and one half barrel of Sugar ;
The fame having been libelled againlt, prof«-
c»ted and condemned as forfeited, in the said '
Court—by <
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal. I
Marlhal's Office, "> i
H'V January. 1708 ) 19 —dtioht j
M« THE SHtP I
AMIABLE, ;
D. c, Tit.UNOHAtT, Mailer,
For Amjtcrdam, i
CAN take in about 4c tons of goods to complete ,
ber cargo. She is intended to fail the firft j
) opening —for fceight or passage apply to
the mailer on board, at'Brighr's wharf, or to
Jerentifih Warder. '
January 18 . 3 { -
To be Exchanged for
Brhifh, Gemun, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trafl of valuable Land
In Ltcomtng, joining that of the Holland to.
and containing lo'.odo Acres.
Inquire of the Primer.
J»n. ,5- [
Just Published,
And to he had ax the BooU-flores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Cam pbsiX, Younc and OkmroO,
in I'hilaiJalphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Renftttiag or Bilious
Fevers.
7c tvfucb is annexed, #
AN * BSTRAC}fr of tht opinioosand practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
i'inp; intfcreftipg fads and refleAions relative to
tH« Bywcbw* ffßtro'titi, or Yellow Fever, which
haaoccifiowd fomuch dH\r«f9and mortality, at
differfr.t periods, in feveralof the fuaport towns
of the Unfed Stages of Anoerica.
ry WILLIAM CURRIE,
Feltaw of the Philadelphia College of
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, See. ~ *3m^
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
"January 4, 1798.
At a meeting r>f the Prejjdenl and Managers,
this day, a dindrniafcS diitMn fur Jhare qua •
AftUred for the laJi half year, qvh'wh zuid lr by
them retained, fur tbt payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable too refofutton tfthe Stock
holders the tith June la/I.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of th' Philadelphia & Lamafier Turnpike Com'py.
January >i n:^fun-iv
A 1.1. persons indebted to ;he cltate.of Peter
Gill, late of ihe Diflrifl <t[Southwark, de
ecafed, are requeftrd to make immediate pay
ment lo either of the Sublcribers; avid ihofe
\mo have any demand* againll j'aid eftatc, are
requcQcd «o bring in their accounts duly attefl-
JOHN MURPHY,
PiiTEk SCK AVENDYKE, [
THOM AS FAURELL, ) 01S "
Philad. Jan. ;6> 1798. »iaw4w
I - ■ C| jr Cascttr»
j , obl
PHILADELPHIA, abq
'. SATURDAV EVENI JO. JANUARY ao.
- nil
SCIPIO—No. xu. pu<
It wa» not tny intention t« temark on a- me
ny inconfiftencics which might appear to me jfer
between Mr. Monroe's narrative lince his re- an
'call, ami hi« letters Written at Paris: There vei
is one, however, I liiuft notice. In hit nar- wl
rative written in >797 after hie recall he h.i» eal
i ventured to reprefdnt that, " the poffefiion /oj
; of the treaty enabled the French governmeßt t Fr
to judge for itfelf upon all the points which. C u:
it involved; and that the effeft was not an rfa
equivocal one for thefadid not appear to be \vc
a description of perfone not in the intereft;of of
the coalesced powers, who did not opcilly inj
and severely censure it." (page 34) In a tw
following page he ha# Hated that,' " theap- fie
pearance of the treaty excited the general U n
disgust of France againll the American gov- fa 1
ernment which was now diminilhed by th«- foi
opposition which the American people >"*° e th:
to the treaty." Already I have cWd hi» tai
letter of 17th AugoA, written n a^tcr rei
the treaty appeared at Paris; sni his ' c "er gr
■ of 20th Oftober, which exprrfsly contradiit i nj
this representation. If, however, it is to be
believed that Mr. Monroe has more (truly fu
fiated the impressions of France, at the light ou
of the treaty in his narrative of 1797 than f u
in his letter of 1795. it will follow that lie til
will appear in a more culpable light than I bl
have been disposed to view hjm. It \vill
prove that he so much longer neglected thole dt
friendly explanations whieb it was his duty w
to have offered rtfpefting the treaty. From at
bU torrefpondenee it appears that,not qpfy fc
after thetw»>«iy -'4*P ea "" 31 even
iflur he Iw 4 received in OiSober 1795 thj; 3
of the President, he. did not so- n;
licit an audience of the dircftory on tbif sub- ai
jest till the sth March 1796, a space of fv
fifteen months from the ecnclnlion of the {<
treaty and about seven months after it had d
been published in Paris, and four mouths as- tl
ter be had received the copious comments
on the treaty, from the Secretary of ft
contained in hi* letter of June, and the an- t<
fwer to Mr. Adet's objections. Nor did u
Mr. Monroe dc£re an audience before he S
had been *old by the minister of foreign as- tl
fairs that, the direftory had made up its mind n
how to aft concerning the treaty. That he ii
(Itould have been an indifferent fpeftator to p
the discontented feelings of France before, a
and while it was coming to a mature deter- a
mination, and should, immediately after he f
was informed that such a determination was P
taken, request an audience of the dire&ory 0
II on the fybj«£t; muit be admitted to beftrong a
(1 evidence, not only of negligence but of in- a
capacity. Let it be noted that, neither' his e
. letter of 22d December 1795-, nor that of £
[. 26th January 1796, contained a word on h
the treaty. ii
In hisletterof 16th.February 1796, be a
• has informed the Secretary of State, that he g
had eallcd the day before, on the minister r
of foreign affairs to represent the dittreffes of d
several of his countrymen, but before he was r J
allowed to enter on the fubjeft, his atteflti- t
on was called to the treaty, by the minister <
of foreign affairs, who observed " the direSo- r
ry had at length made up its mind, how to aH 1
id concerning our treaty with England; that it f
considered the alliance between us as ceasing 1
to exist, from the moment the treaty was rat f
ified; andhad, orfbould appoint anenvoyex- !
_ tra-ordinary, to represent the fame to our j
government, Icc. that he should hand to ,
me an official note on this fubjedt, being or- j
dered to do so by the Dire&ory" See. (page
, 311) Mr. Monroe further confirmed that 1
as no fptcific objeftion was made, he could 1
u make no fpecific reply: That he expressed ]
' ft his aftonilhment at the measure proposed, ]
. inculcated the propriety of candour in dif- 1
cuffing the treaty; and intended to demand
an audience, for the purpose of diverting
- France from the measure.
On the 20th of February he wrote that,
he had obtained a conference with
the minister of foreign affairs, concerning ihe
' miHion of an envoy to America j - thaths had
0. rcmcmftrated against th« measure, and- had
declared that- he was aVaya ready to enter
.into explanations relative to the treaty " when
required, aud would do it- with pleasure" ;
to which the minister replied that, France
had much canfe of complaint against us, in.
B " dependenlly of our treaty with England, but,
that by this treaty, ours with them was an
nihilated; but admitted -that the objections _
i U9 to the million of an Envoy to America,"
which had been urged, had much force in
them, and should be considered. It is add
,° f ed in this letter tbat he (Mr. Monroe) ex
to pe£ted he might be called on for explanati
ch ons of the trtaty, in which cafe he should
*t avail himfelf in the best manner of the cona
,ns municatiens he had received from the de
partment of State.
ns The plan of fending an envoy to Ameri
ea was laid aside and, whether the oppositi
on of Mr. Monroe to this measure was judi
— eious or not, I will not venture to decide.
It' is probable however, it would not have
made things worse with this country than
we now fiud them; and our explanations and
arguments would have been as ably urged in
•rs, Philadelphia as any where else. But if Mr.
vas, Monroe had already been guilty of unwar
-.h raritable negligence in permitting the direc
' tory to make tip its mind without any pre
vious difcufiion, or reprefentationof the trea
ty in our behalf, this negligence became in
>py excufeable and fatal, by his subsequent con
v du£t. Inftcad of telling the minister of fo
rtcr reign affairs, he was ready when required by
de- the French republic, to" give explanations
»*K- 011' this fubjeft; he ought to have feut him
l °k immediately", a written communication, em
bracing every particular which he bad heard,
or believed might have occasioned ?ny dif
falibfattion. Let it be remtmbered, Mr.
!CU " Monroeinhisletterof the 17th August 1795
had told the President he expected t» bear r.i
complaints, unless in reply to hTTreprefc'mlatiins.
With this opinio^'"if Ms. W<
that Fran:e-v»ai w?1l iitiic=i \.:ttt,t... - wit
nrted States, it would have V«m P r "P cr to 1
observe tilence an the treaty : but rf ht was fin,
.-icjUjiiited with it; d:fc6 .tc:u, and fo.tnd it cal
fioin time tu tirtic «ncrcaSng, *Mhe t,ocu- tu.
mint; prove, or as he ackr.owfcdjfs in h:s r>u
narrative , and if he believed the Msm* re- t«h
public Vimld him Vy-f entl * as
mention that fubjeft, hut in nt'y a hit oh- an.
fervati'jju, he was bpnndindrtty to commence f..l
an exp&atttn. If this cou'J be done th
verbally, .it pjt mi vynting
which.it wgi not 19 thefo*cr.of the French ot
cabinet 10 prevent. There wasnoother way an
}m endtaTßuriag to remove (fee uneasiness of jh
France, but by aftually eommcnu-jgihe dif- tb
cuffioo on his part, and not merely by «fc- to
daring his to enter U P°" lt " Thls ,
would have l*eri executing the expeditions a a
of the executive, whose anxious and unceaf- .tn
in? wish to preserve harmony between the
two countries had been 011 ail occalions tefti- tn
ficd to him. If theEe endeavours hid been ti<
upfuccefsfal, though it would have been the bi
iburce of infinite regret, it would have at- l>*
■ forded coufqlatiun to refleft, that every
thiag had been flor.e that was poffibtc to ob
tain success. He ought not so long to have
remained in Paris, a silent witness to tht
growing discontent of France, without mak- 111
ing fame exertion to diminish or remove it.
All the remedies which the executive could ">
supply, were in his hands, and certainly he a'
ought to have tried their efficacy in due sea- f e
fat" and jiot have deferred their application g 1
till the difeafc had probably become incura-
L) 1 * '
It is true that in March Mr. Monroe did
: demand an audience 0/ lh« direftory, which |
' was granted. That having demanded the 2 '
1 audience, h£ was obliged to open the cou
fereuce, .tfiat the fefult was that they on
1 n»ifti/l**.of foreign affairs t«i_fsnd_iS
; a note <jf 5 Aw* complaints to the American f
- miniiter, which was done soon afterwards, 11
- and to \\'hi:h Mr. Monroe returned an an- *'
f fwer. But wgs entirely QUt of fca- I'
! son—it wai a month after the direftory had 0
1 determined on tbtir course of conduft as ol
- they had etprefsly informed him. r f
t I will s n»t fay that. any thing that Mr. rl
• Monroe eoild have done, would have diver- 11
- ted France from her present offenfive and ir
1 nnjuft fyilem. The people of the United fl
e States ar< defendants from'the British, and <;
- though fcparate and-independent in govern- '
{ ment, yet speaking the fam<t language, alike
e in manmrs, connected by commerce, and c '
a prcfefiinj; the ehriftian religion. The French P
, are led to contemplate us as Englilhmen, J 1
- and from their hatred to England, are not
e sparing <£ their injuries to us. But surely £
s Mr. Moiroe ought to have used his endeav- '
f ors, witk vigilance, constancy and sincerity; "
5 and he ftould have used them in due season, '
- and with his utmost ability, to correal the v
s erroneous opinions and to dissipate the un- "
f favorable prejudices which the treaty might
n have excited. Fr« m the executive he had y
in due time received the fulleft direftions, 1
e and-bad been not oply reminded how to re- c
e gulate his foture conduft, but had been f
:r reproved for some instances of his mifcon- 1
>f dust, so early as the 23d,November, 1795. 1
is The secretary of (late wrote him a iliort let- c
i- ter of which the following is an extraft. c
:r " I write now merely to acknowledge the 1
j- receipt of your several letters numbered 16,
S 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. Youwillfeean an- 1
it fwer to'the last has been anticipatedbyalong
g letter from me dated in September, on the '
it fubjefl of the treaty between the United
t- States and Great Britain. By that letter '
ir you will undtrjlandthat the ideas you have
:o detailed,. are quite foreign Jo the views of the 1
r- gevermneni of the United States"— (page 3'9)
je Even this did not stimulate him to aftion, '
at but it was reserved for the, minister of fo
ld reing affairs to rouse him from his lethargy, '
:d by tellinghim positively that France had at
d, length made bp it* mind' how to aft con- '
if- cerning the Britilh treaty. After this pe
'd riod it naight have have been forefeetl that 1
ig his representations would be unavailing;
and so they were. The proper feafou had
t, pa(Ted by, unimproved, and it was never to
th be reealled. The discontent of France was
it- grown to maturity, and what might have
id been only a trarilient prejudice, was become
a fixed opinion,
er * - , —.
« C 0 ft G R £ S S.
7 . ||||M
e'e HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
n.
it, Thursday, January 18.
n- Debate en providing th: means if Foreign in
ns tcrcourfe.
a,' Thehoufe having resolved itfelf into a com
in mittee of the whole, on this bill, Mr.
d- Dent in the chair, the following bill
x- was read:
ti- Sec i. Be itenafted, &c. That the Pre-
Id fident 0/ the United States, lhallbe, and he
n- hereby is authorized to dri.w from the Trea
le- fury of the United States, a sum not ex
ceeding annually to be paid
ri- out of the monies arising from the duties on
ti- imports at.d tonnage, for the support of
di- such perfous as he shall commiilion to serve
de. the United States in foreign parts, aod for
ive the expinfe incident to the business in which ]
tan they vnay be employed; Provided, That
jid exciufive of an ontfit, which Ihall in no cafe
in exceed the amount of one year's full salary
dr. to thi ii)intfter plenipotentiary or charge,des
ar- affaires to wHom .the fame may be allowed,
e«- the Prefideiit ftiall not allow to any minister
ire a greatei"ftrh than *'" per
ea- annnm, as a compensation for all his perfo
in- na! fij-vices and expenses; nor a greater foni
011- for the fame, than four tboufand five hund*
so- red dollars per annum to a charge des af
by faires; nor a greater sum for the fame, than
ons one thousand three hundred and fifty dol
ifm lars per annum to the fecretarydf any min
;m- iitcr.
urd, Sec. 2. That in all cases, wher? any sum
dif- or sums of money have ifTutd, or (hall here-
Vlr. after ifTue, from the Treasury, for the pur
-795 poses of intercourse or treaty, with foreign
r r.t rn pnrfmince ef any law, .the Pr«-
6ns. lident (hall be, and he is hereby authoriared
to caut: the fame to be duly fettled aniiiiaUy th cr *
with the account iogofliccrs of the lreafury, ries ?
in manntr following, that is to fay; by cau- v en
fin? the Tame to be accounted for, fpecifi- penc
callV, in alt instances, whereia the <;xpendi- and
ture thereof may, in hisjudgment, be made iter
public; a'id hy making a certificate orccr- ny fa
tificates of the amount of such expenditures, cl,
as he may think it advifeable not to fpeclfy; co.y
and every fuel) certificate shall be deemed a ae '
ftifficient voucher for the sum or the sums nait
therein expreCed to have been expended. try,
Sec. V That for-defraying the expences He
of inten-ouifc bet wren the United States fay
aud foreign natiins during -he year dne
thousand teve.i hundred and ninety eigitv la'' r
tber« be further appropriated, ir. addition woi
to the jrforchiJ iu..i c . OTI
Sec. 4. That the aft passed on the Urft tioi
day of July, the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety, intitled, " An aft | met
•'"providing the means of iutercourfe be- j att«
tween " the United States and foreign na- j veri
tions." and the aft pad on the ninth of Fe- gei:
bruary, in'the year one thoufao.i seven
hundred and ninety, three, intitled " An
« aft to continue in force for a limited time, ° r
(< ar.d amend the aft, intitled "An aft- pro- 1
" viding the means of intercourse between jail
" the Uni|ed States and fbreign nations," her
fiiall be, and they hereby are repealed. po'
Sec. 5. That this aft shall be and.remain tha
in force for and during the term of two years tha
and from theflcc until the end of the next no
feflion of Congress thereafter, and no lon- ouj
lei
S er ' . V."
Mr. NicHOLAS enquired with what sums thj
the blanks in the-bill were to be fiilled. °f
• :> Mr. HAfeptß said he proposed to fill the vie
firft with 40,000 dollars, and the last: with th«
28,650. ce<
Mr. Nicholas observed that the. fubjeft op
of foreign intercourse having again come be- S O,
fore the house by the last law being about to E>
" ?splrf;'neTUougWctT"3 gtiodtime W
it back to the grofin.d on which itftood pre
vious to its beingextended in the vear 1796.
It was absolutely neceflary to take a view thi
of this fubjeft, aid to prevent tin; increase '7
of expence under this head, foV a variety of "a
reasons. He believed that the benefits de- Ui
rived from government did not depend so
mqch upon their form, as upon the manner hu
in which they were executed. He believ- " e
ed there was a tendency in all governments he
conflituted like ours, to an union and con
solidation of its different parts, so as to de- ral
ftroy all the benefits intended to be produ- 00
ced from its divifioa. Th'e most convincing th
proofs might be adduced to %shew that it th
might be foabufed as to become the most
burdensome and oppressive government' on ln
earth. If, for instance, an uniou could be va
formed between the executive and a major- j to
ity of both branches of the legiflatnre, so |
that they came to aft uniformly inonecourfe, j P r
where would then be the check upon the ; w
mcafuresof governmertt ? It would be in a
foeble minority only, confiding of perfoni
whose charafters were not fufficiently known at
in this extensive country, to gfvc-tl»«u» agy w
chance of attrafting public notice to the o
! perations of government. It was, there- 11
. fore, particularly neceflary to guard against | c
the encreafe of executive patronage ; be- in
. cause the number of representatives in that Cl
department of government was small, in tn
» proportion to their constituents ; and their |t
power of gaining influence was great, in p
! proportion to the fmallnefs of their num- 11
r ber. It was, therefore, neceflary to at-
tend te the patronage entrusted to this t<
3 branch of the government, as he was sorry e
r to fay that he believed that patronage had b
been made use of to influence the public tl
e mind in a particular direftion ; as it was ti
\ a faft very evident that no man could be ad- n
( mitted into the offices of the government of ti
this country, unless he made a facrifice of c
allpoliticalopinion to executive infallibility. v
J There was another reason for adopting si
the change which he propofd. Our put- p
lie agents abro&d were mostly cbofen from p
t the iegiflature itfelf; and it was worthy of o
. serious consideration, that the most attraft- f
ive offices which government had to bestow, f
were filled with legislative charafters.
g Mr. N. said his own opinion with refpeft £
s to foreign diplomatic intercourse was, that 1
we Ought to havp none. We Ihould be bet- v
ter without any fort of political intercourse '
with foreign nations, and he (hould, wish t
commerce to be left to seek its own mar- f
kets. He did not wifti, however, to set up t
J. bis opinion as a standard in* this business ;
all he desired was to bring it back to its o- <
riginal establishment. In order to effeft I
j. this he proposed to strike out the word ple
nipotentiary, in the loth line, and insert "tb -
v- the French republic or Great-Eritain," and
r. to make such other alterations in the fee
ill tion as to make it accord *vith thTs idea.
On former occafionsit had been affined,«
e. that this house.had no right to aft in any
manner which did not concurwith the views
a- of the executive, with refpeft to our diplo
x- matic intercourse with foreignjnations. 0 n
id examining the constitution, he was fatisfied
3n that it was not consonant to its Tpirit to fay
of tfte legislature had not power over this fub
ve jest. The President had the power of choof
or ing foreigß.minifters, but the constitution
cb did not fay he might employ them as he
iat should think fit.—Mr. N. said he had had
ifc the curiosity of recurring to the debate
ry when the. diplomatic corps was firfl inftitut
les ed, and he found his opinion abundantly
:d, confirmed by what then tpoli place. He
ter there found it to be the clear understanding
>e~r 'of the house, that congref; hafd thf' povvcr
jo- to fay there should be such a number of mi
jirl nifters, of this or that description, at such
id* and such a salary. £To confirm this pofi
af Mr. N. read several extracts from the
lan debates 011 tRe occafion.T At the time of ;
ol- palling their. W, it was thought belt'to leave
in- the li*ing of the salaries to the President, ;
J becaufeit might be necelFary to give 'differ
am ent salaries li the fame grade of miniftcrs,
re- !nt different courts But as it was seen that
ur- the President had never thought it neceflary
ign to make any difference ia this refpeft, it was
'r«- no longer neceflary for the house to give up
ted t'that power to the President. He thought,
thertfori, it would be proper to f. r,u
Vies ai the rate heretofore'fixed h ', c p'.f /
fident, to retrench the extract, ,
pence of the miniftcrs employed iu St>V
ami Portugal, „ d w &JJZZ3Z
ifter at Berlin, as soon as he had fioj&H a
ny business upon which he might be,-..,.
Ed, and as loon as the information could be
to him. A minister at that co uk
he looked upon a, wholly unneeefTary. We
had httlc or no connection with that coun
try, and he d;dl not. w.lh any to be created. .
He thought, therefore, the house ought to
• could not find money , c f„ ppon
the expence, as if they did continue it, the
sam reason which C, nt , m ; n ; fter
would fend mmifter, tojhree ( , r four oth«
courts.-!* hoped therefore, his propofi.
tioo would be acceded to.
Mr. Harper fuppoftd it woold be re
membered by all those gentleman who had"
I attrnded.to the buGnefs of Congress for fc.
vcral years pail, that the doftrine of the
, gentleman from Virginia was by no
new. Ihe fubfe& of foreign iutercourfe
was never taken up, w.thout that gentleman
or some other who agreed with him f enu
ment advancmg these opi„i 0 ,,s , they nev e r
failed to speak of the dansrer m k
bended from Executive influence
power to appoint foreign minift™
that foreign intereourfe waT mneJnT '
1 tha t t t OU , I ' P uU . ic , »&!« abroad wTrj
not to .be attended to, aad rW
■ mke given up, or left to ffifc Z
felf. Nor was this a doflrine confined to
, thy country or this * ge . Whenever a
of gentlemen in any country found tk £ '
. views opposed by the meafuruof govern^
, they beca/ne vexed, and attributed the pro
ceedings of those who differed from them in
E optnioU t« any motive rather than „„k£
. good.. The def.re of Executive f w#ur , or
, Execute offices was an usual charge, and
r ■ ,««, itihn dffr „ J.l f ~
" al £ «,mc«bered, that whenev fr the fob
'Jl l P !?V :nterc °urfehad been difcnfed
' * ho "Z h A thcfe had been cooft aßt '
. ly made to it, they had been
f disregarded by the Con K r!ft ofT
" United S Ute,. The good
, try had weighed thefs objections in the ba
r lance a,d declared the. wanting ;ail d hetru
. fted the feme fate would now meet them as
{ heretofore.
. That the house might judge more accu
. ratelyon this fubjeft.hewould advert to the
. oourfe heretofore taken. But, before be did
J 7 IS ' he , would observe, that the morion of
t the gentleman, mftead of bringing the Sufi.
I ness back to the lhte in which it flood
„ in the year 1790 iprould be a direct, inno
e vation upon that institution, anl, accotdinjr
.. to his do&rine, the befi way of correding
0 change, would be to introduce it, for the
) present bill was a copy of the original ad,
e , which had been adled upon from the yeai
a | 1790 to the present tim«, But, instead of
it leaving the buGnefs as placed by Congrefs'*
ji at that time, the gentleman from Virginia,
y wished it changed, Why wai this to be
donef Eecnutc p rc
fident, after seven years expcrienceTliaa
ft found no neeeflity of making any difTcrenee
=. in.the allowance to Minillers at different
it courts, and therefore the House ought to
| n make the change. This was reasoning
j r from effedh to causes with a witness to it.
i n No contradiction was more palpable. But,
n. it was feid, there was danger from the exe
t- cutive influence —danger of 1 -giflat jrs be
is ing bribed by the hopes or promifrt of for
v eign appointment. These objedtions had
id been urged on former cccafians. When
ic the appropriation was made for a minitter
as to Berlin, the gentl:man frorrVirginia then"
d- made a Jiarnl (as he terms it.) He then
of told the house the appointment wis unne"-
of celfary ; but, uolwilhllanding the money
y. was appropriated. The house was not a
fraid of executive influence. If this ap
b- pointment had been improper, that was the
m proper time to have prevented the extension
of of our foreign intercourse ; but, after a
a- full discussion, the extension was deemed
iv, proper. What verfatiiity—whatfrolifhnefi
what childish capricioufnefo, would it ap
•d pear, if in a few m<»iths after the solemn
.at fau£lion of. the house was given to it, it
»t- vvab tq be withdrawo, and that without a
•fe nysddit.'oMl %bt on the (khjed. He
ifh trusted that the house would not be luduced
ar- from the unfounded suspicions of any gen
up tleman, thus to aft.
s • *ln aid of the 40,000 dollars per annum
o' originally granted for {hispurpofe, Mr. H.
eft feid, various supplementary appropriatjons
lie- had been made. First, a sum df 20.000
tb dollars, then a sum of 2 3 ,0a0, and in March
ind last 17,000, and in addition to this, 14,000
ec- for a particular appointment. The. houle
had, therefore, not only deemed it expe
ed,- dient to continue the original ad but to
make additional appropriation, from Y« r
■ws to year. He thougnt the good fm eot the
,lo- country had never been more firmly (h.wn
On than on thn fubjea. But now a new .■•wirfr
Red was to be taka,, and. all former proceedings
fay declared to-have been wrong. \
u b But it was laid that this country had no.
K>f- need of foreigp mini.lers, and that commerce
Z I#* W d«. '«?■, »•« '.'"J*
he the house would think so. w Di no. 1 -
aad nited State, trade with all the uat.v^of
iate the earth? How, then, were it poflibk .0
cut . do without accredited agents t^ l^
ntly our concerns in foreign country- Were
He we to give up our commerce .
line gentlemen, L knew who would answer,
wc f yo. Thr>- wf.uS3"tcft iTie House, couuneij*
m i. was a bad thing, and that it rath "^'S
•uch to be outlawed, thau protected. But was
jofi- this the I'enfe of the country . 33 »
Z sense of that house ? Would they d.fca d
of the property of of c.t.zens who
; a :;! dVndS u Y pon it for their and
[ C nt, tb«ir'wealth ?Or would they L-e u y
ff cr ! forfeit the , cvrmte *r*ng ~t ? MrJL
ters, ' said he M often heard of the dangeroiu
that nature of foreign intcreourfe , bn J
(Tary the diftovery cf a te".' men who he-iew
2 that everything whi.h had been done c;'
eup this goverumoit had t?en radsv="> w '" ■ '
ght, ' Hi trusted, however, the Houle ' •hera_t(i whj»t It had fa frequently fan ft ion ti', j
and thit the propofcd amendment would not •
be 3greed to. ;
Mr. Allen said, that bv the bill before ;
the committee they were brought to confi- '
der what provision should be made for the
Ministers of the United States abroad.—
He wifiled the gentleman from Virginia had
produced fails to the committee which, by
being ccmfidered, might have been ailed u
pon ; and when he had propofcd to have '
wimfters plenipotentiary at two courts on- !
ly, it would have been well if he had fliewn ,
wlty there should be ministers of that des
cription there, and not at other courts, or
, jvhy we ihoujd minitters abroad
at all; but after listening to him with ati
tention, he had been able to hear nothing
from him but general declamation. What
he intended for arguments, he thought illy
applied to a government like this. He had
strongly warned"the house again ft Executive
patronage. He spoke of the different de
partments of government as diftinft bodies,
.having different interests ; as if the Exe
cutive wasformingapatronageagainft which 1
it was important forthemtoguard. He tho't
language of this kind very improper. He
believed it might hav: a bad effeft out of j
doors, when the people heard of the Exe- '
etitive being thus charged Instead of ma- j '
king these charges, he wished the gentle-I '
man had said, " Cvmc noio, vnd let us rea~ j
fun togcilnr." This would have been pre- i
ferable to calling of hard names, to speak- ' 1
ing of the lust of dominion, and of patron- '
age ; as if one br.«cb of the government t '
was in danger "of being swallowed up by the ,
other. / The gentleman had declared that ' i
republican governments might become more ;
burthenfoipe and corrupt than any other, i '
as if the people of the United States were ! '
to i>e informed thisgovernment was progref- |
sing towards that - point——towards a point 1
which would Hear it dowh t This language 1
itruck him 'he more, as he doubted not it '
would be faithfully reported. A corhbina- \
tion of all the branches of government was
spoken of, against which there was no se
curity. but in feeble minorities. Did the '
gentleman mean to insinuate that majorities 1
in republican governments were not to be ,
trusted, but that all virtue was in minorities <
—the enlightened few, who were to be the 1
guides of the people.
Mr. A. said, the gentleman from Vir- J
ginia had told the house that execative pat- ,
ronage was exclusively confined to those who i
came up to the standard of executive infal
libility. This assertion was to spread over '
te United States as a fatt. But were any '
proofs offered to support these charges ? j
No. \et these charge* would go out to ■
the world, and would tend to weaken the t
confidence of the people in the gQvernment, i
and they would of eourfe conclude, that '
such a government ought not to be support- 1
ed, but demolished. Was there any pecu-
liar propriety, he asked, in introducing lan- [
guage of this kind, at this juncture, when f
they were every moment in expectation of t
hearing neivs tKot tfifagreea- <
ble," and require an union of every citizen in- f
the country i Was this a time to fay govern- 1
ment was not to be trusted? He could have f
wished, instead of making these charges, the |
gentleman had reasoned upon the fubje£l,
that such measures might hrve been taken, t
as true wisdom and love of country should 1
have didlated. But when the gentleman !i
spoke of government departing from the "
principles on which it was instituted, who, "
that believed this, could refpe6l it? But he u
had himfelf, even heard native Americans, g
who had not been poisoned by a«y foreign w
influence whatever, declare that such a go- P
vernment as ours could not stand, that it 11
must be overthrown. He believedthat these °
opinions were produced by such declarations if
as those they had heard to-day, and such as f,
"if this law puffed, it -would not be carried in- ol
to effect by tl>e courts of the Jlates," which was c(
language used on a former occasion.
Mr. A. concluded by faying, the com f '
mittee were told that our foreign intercourse
ought not to be continued. He eonfeffed tf
that this country had reason to with that so- tfi
reign inttreourfe,, so far as it related to im- a {
porting intriguing foreigners, had long ago ' e
ceased. He believed there were persons in -T
---that house, who thought the government
ought to be overset, and that it could not,
and ought not to be supported, and who be- be
lieved that the most effectual way of deftroy
it was to destroy the confidence of the peo
pie in the individuals who administer it. He ' i£
wished the House to affumt the true Amcri- !j?
can character.
Mr. Nicholas assured the gentleman im
just lat down, that he might fay what he to
pleased of him, he was at liberty to proclaim be
him ia what charafter he pleased : it would ou
not affeft him in the least. With refpeft to Pa
the charge he brought against him for infin
uatipg without authority, that a preference f U [
was given by the Executive to persons pro- tbi
feffing certain opinions, he did not make th<
the charge without authority. It was the of
avowed declaration of men who considered an
themselves as guides of the President that " e
this was the cafe. He acknowledged it was p r(
to be lamented, that, at a time when it in i
might be necessary to join in one common exi
cause, that such sentiments should be declar- in 8
ed; but if gentlemen will divide the coun- ver
try into'parties, it was a business of their
own, and not his. What he said was true. |j er
Mr. Gallatin believed that there was a num t
borof people ia the United States—people other- J| ar
w:!e enlightened, and wl.o upon all commou sub- con
polTefled found un aerftandings, who were l '
fully convinced that there wa« a fa.4lon existing *
within the United States, and even within the ° n
•walls of that house who wilhed to demolish the Wat
government; ar.d he further believed that this o ev ll
pinion wis supported by such declarationi as had
made by from Conne>slicut. tlon
Ke ihou!<J be sorry that such a belief Ibould be P ow
considered as dangerous to the fafety of the com- '* evi
munity. Nor could he consider the d«termination 'he i
ox the executive to employ only such persons as was
are of the fame political opinion* with therpfclves, it w
as of such a nature as to pioduce fatal couf -quen- prtJf
ecs, and that government, on that account, was pow
unworthy ot confidence. He believed that such cece:
a line of conduA must flow from the present (late ,ki
of parties in America, (Jivided as thepeop'e were it wa
Ed, j upon many important occaficn». To fay, there- h
not ; !ore > that the executive tniployrd persons of coil- ' r
i fouant political opinionstoii s owa, was not to fay
i t^ e government did net d> frrve confidence.—But 1 l
i if the sommitter tur«ed their attention t-j the a- , i,
nil- | mendment propofeJ, it only went to declare tfcat !
the to London and Paris (hould nit have a ' °
, ' filary of :aore than 9.003 dollars a year, and ihat 1 °
minifters to other parts «f fyirope Ihould net have '
more than 4 500, In support of this amendment,
by it was f>iid that this was the ground upon which 1
Iu- this gorernmint firfl fixed the business of foreign. ''
ave intercourse He believed this statement correal, a
on- ! nntil the year I7qS, there was no mmifterpleni- '
1 potentiaries except at Paris and London ; at other
. W " places thire wa; no higher grade then minitters refi ' 1
•el- dert. Hence the committee might be lsd to argue "
•K. f h« of bringing back our foreign politi- P
,ad Cli * intercourse to what it was before t7i.it period, h
ati foreign felitical intercourse ; because he 1
thought the gfcntluman from South-Carolina (yir. r
|"S Hirper) had blendrd two fuSjeifti tngerher, viz. f;
hat foreign commercial intercourse a r ;d foreign pohti f.
illy cat intercourse. He did. not believe it was the 0- «
lad P' n ' on any gent'.er-.an in that house that corn- „
; re merce ought to he left to fhift for itfelf, unsttend- a
, ed to. Het.lieved it was well ttndcr iood that n
our commerce in foieign countries was attended to i\
es, by our eonfuls, and not by our mintiiersp'leuipo
xe- tentiary ; and consuls would exist. it wt had r.o
ich ministers at all. Therefore, all that j;ntleman's
arguments whtch tended to thew that the am'snu
. ment would affedi our commercial intercoorfe had
L * nofounJation whatever,
of | Returning to the quelliau of foreign political
jce- intercourse, was it proper to brinj it back to what P
-13. >t was eighteeti years ago .'—And before he pro- Cl
le* ! ceei ' farther, he woul 1 obfervc,' that though the
g "vtlfimanfrsom had Ween tolerably }(
fa ~ (lorre.a in his statement ef the bufmeftt, he was
re- j mifUker. in one point, in which he would fcthitn
lk- right He had dated thct the firft additional ap
-sn. propriaiion was 20,€00 dollars, but this sum was a
■nt n '"t a !'P r opriated for foreign but tor b
1 defraying the expence of the suits of our mer- w
" e j chants in London. On the ift of January, 1796, j
lat j there remained .a balance unexpended appropii- 1
Jrc atlon for this objeft of 30,000 doilars. so that
fr j day 110 extraordinary appropriation had been inide; P
' | the whole allowance wat 40,000 dollart a year, ti
which was found to be more than fufficient. On
ef- the 28th ps May, 1796. an cftimatc was sent I y
int the Prefid'nt of the United- States, ftatinj the j
.gc r " ms -wmfi ssp'iJed lyjfowyii intercourte, rir.A
; t that 23,500 dollars were yet v/anting, in or.er to t;
change the eflablifhment which fed till that day a;
ia " exilled, by fending ministers plenipotentiary to
'as Madrid and Ltfboa, initcsdo c ministers reiident.
ft- This fftimate he j aft stated was received the 28th ~
h e nf May, and the law received the ef the
[ eJ President or. the Ift of June, thai it csuld not have
received a very nil discussion (being passed just as =
the feflion was about to close) and he thought there
les was good reason f«r examining the thing again
he appropriation was made in the second feflion of the
4th congress. In that feflyjn the additional ap
• propriation was pal Ted after full difcuflioo. It was
made upon an etlimate stating 17,900 dollars want
ed, and during last session, an appropriation was tc
ho made for a miuifter to Berlin of 13,500 dollars. te
al- The committee had been told that it would e
rpr vince greater versatility, if they were all at once
to change what had already been done. But it cr
must be recollefled, that when the change in the b]
system was made, it underwent little discussion ; A
to and he would venture to fay that our business a- f u
he broad was as well done from the year 1786 to th
it, 1796, as it hadjbeen donefince. As thequeTlion v <
ia t was whether a larger or smaller sum of meney ce
(hould be appropriated,he would call upon gen-j
u glemen in favour of the larger sum to shew [
what benefit was derived from Madrid and Lif- J,
in " bon by the change ; what necedity there wu m „
en for a minister at Berlin, and what good 'was to M
of be derived from giving a larger sum than 4,500
:a- dollars. The gentleman from Connedicut had
in why -fend a "minister plenipotentiary to
u- London or Paris, any more than the other
courts ? This was done at firft, and th« mover, is
he fuppoled, wilhed not to innovate upon the of
law as originally pafTed. gu
But as they were told it was improper, Upon
n, this floor, to fay any thing about patronage,and ? s
Id thaf all arguments of that kind are well under- ! a
ln (tood, and are by no means novel in their na
le ture;thatfucheofnplaintsaremadeunderjllfo.rnis *?j'
of government by discontented people out of Bu
°> office. To fay that these complaints are well chs
understood, was the fame as to fay, that the aw
s, ground upon which they compUined was atfo '' cl
rn well understood- It was to acknowledge, that toc
a- persons who were in the favour oftheExecu- ""
jj 'ive had some advantages which perj'ons in the pat
other party desired or envied. To admit of
one position, was to admit df the other. But, Ull ,
16 if no particular advantages were to be derived so I
is from governmental patronage, then the cause erti
1- of jealousy, according to this doflrine, must wh
, s cease. fin
But it was fa d it wo'_,!d be weak and foollfh t ' le
5 to change what had already established in res- CXC|
r to foreign ministers. But had nothing, he
d taken place, the house fautflioned
d the principle, which had a tendency to bring
>- the effeils which might be produced by patron- Sij
1- a gc> to a closer view Had gentlemen firgot- Phi
0 ten that a member the most a<slive upon that
II ,"P or » efptcially upon all financial business, came
(if not with a commiflion in hie pocket, at least
with a full profpecft of"it) to support the efti-
'■> mate out of which hij salary and outfit were to Infu
- be paid. He would a,'k when such a fa<sf was
. seen to take place, whether it might not be be
liaved, that such an influence as had been fpo- 1
e ken of might not exifl ? Mr. G. wilhed it not' P a P'
to be fuppoled that he meant to make a person
al attack upon any one ; he only meant to infer
that persons in such a fituatiijn were liable to be A
n improperly influenced. He woyld not pretend arm
e to fay that the evil wa3 of great magnitude ;he den;
•, believed not. K& believed, upon the whole, ries
3 our government was in a great degree pure.— llluc
Patronage was not vety extensive ; nor had it ftac I
any material efteift upon the legislature, or any thof
ether part of the government ; yet, he could The
5 fuppafe our government ts be liable to abuse in then
■ tbisway. By the nature of the government,' peril
; the different powers were divided ; the power on d
. of giving offices w s placed in the Executive— with
1 an influence which neitlier of the other ry f
es poiTefied, and if too large grant; of money fecul
were made.it might give to that power,an im- er ar
' proper weight. Our government, he said, was elivt
in its childhood, and/if this patronage had any tate^
existence, it could nojf, of course, be as yet alarm.- at ig
ing ; but he desired gentlemen to look at alt go- as tc
vernments where this power was placed in the unqi;
executive, and fee if the greatest evil of the gov- their
ernment was not the exceflive influence of that, fame
department. Did riot this corruption, exist in proft
the fjftvernment which was constituted moll sim- clerg
ilarfy to ours, to fych a degree, it to have be- eflee
comi ;a part of the system itfelf, and without o''.jet
which, ir is said, the government could nat go malij
on.' Was it not, there; ore, prudent to keep a ed b
watchful eye in this refpeit ? He did not, how- jacob
CV rf-* > a g ßinft the power itfelf; it was ne- .he h
ct-flary to be placed somewhere. Thecdßßltu- lition
tion had fixed it in tne Executive. If the fame and 0
power had been placed in the iegiflature, he be- to th
lieved they would have been more corrupt than lottift
the executive. He thought, therefore, the trust
was wifely piaced in the executive ; and though equal,
it was right to grants of moritv within coulJ
proper bounds, in order to prevent 'he «bofe of- dtfU<
power, yet it was proper to grant ali that was &c. a
ceceffrry, ism o;
>Jr. < J.concluded by faying, that ifbetbought to Un
it was proper that cur political intcrtouife Ihoul I wort!
re- .he fßtendcd, he (houltl mt fuppgrf the smmi
?' "] fnr: hat as the con-/*: »iw. was «rrw K
' is fc'tiid, that our fa eijrn pnlitlcaL. ilterco rrfc
a- •c*^» T 'een as e*p«)iiye>as u oiisjht to
Slat : a g,<at d. pee, to
e# j oar frl,tied i viltb/or.-igK notions,l tut
J M , V' r prefti.t criticalfi-.uast j.7 vj'ui produced ; that
lre j thls '"terconrle tn-r< evil th,„ „| to
nt us, that he wished to the b ifinefs ha'k to
!ch 'heftate in wbrh it flood in Iftht wif
ign. ,I ' ,m °f future li-pfkt'-rfs stall think prrip-r to
:,ft, a bolish the eftabliihircr.t of political m
ni- isreourfe altogether, it M:fl he left to them, to
, er decide. He h'«r.»:eit thiijht it woii!Jb e K< i'.ii«
;fi *0" fir so do fiat p'efjp'nt. He bcKcved, fltlijr
:uc ft.'re ,ifcre. it wjfeaaHlSrv ti Vnve some
iti- P r -;tifST'nte"fcoir>-ft ; hat it would
id. hi -'beft. bv deprtfe^, 1 r« dachrte if'alloKfiher.' Ifi
he
Ir. relf»e , a , *.v nnjor'iti«"Wiftjg atways nght. He
it. said he himfelf wan femctinie* in a and
l°mer [pes :n a minority, and at the time he
°- *5? fptakinjr. he did not fcno v i in whirl) he
™- might tie; but'it mieht be, thfi'ti -Ij he were'in
V * minority, and »iult of course Vi'e bound by the
Lit majority, that he might be nstwith
to landing that his opinion hid been
ro (Debate to bs continued.)
i's 1' ~~ *
u- FRIDAY JANUARY 19.
a <i Mr. Macon presented a petition from Le •
vy Tyfer r a captain in the Georgia line,
iat praying for compenfatioiV.—Referred to the
■ o _ committee of claims.
he Mr. D. Foster reported a bill for the re
'ly lief of William Alexander, which was. twice
read and committed for Monday,
p. The house their again resolved itfelf into
, a j a committee of the vyhole on the unfinilhed
or business of yefterd-ay, which occupied the
whole fitting. Mr. Pintkney opened the
debate. He was against the amendment at
at this- time, though in favor, at a proper op-
Ijj. port Unity, of reducing our diplomatic in
ir, terconrfe. The motion was also opposed
by Messrs. N. Smith, Harper and Dana ;
■y and suppOrted by Messrs. LiWngfton and
Galhtin. The committee rhfc< ' wKhoiit'
to' taking a queftioi^ 1 Md olrfifliieij leave tojfu.
ay agairi. The debate will bt given in our
to next. to Mondty.
S Xije @a3Ctte.
as 1 ■ '
e PHILADELPHIA,
he SATURDAY EVENING, 'JANUARY 20.
■as ' '
it- MARRIED—At the Friends meeting, Tren
ds ton, N. J. the 3d inft. Mr. John Pancoast,
to Miss Nancy Abbot, both ofNew-Jerfey.
-
ce On Wednesday last as the fpufiern stage was
't crofling Gunpowder creek, the fce gave way,
!>e by which accident Mr. William Compton, of
1; i Arch-street, was thrown into thewater, and so
a- suddenly carried under the ice, ly the force of
to the current, that the attempts of lis fellow tra
n vellers to save his life unhappily failed of fuc
■r , cess.
a- ,
* I A society is on foot for the imfortant and lau
dable purpafe of invcJHgnting tit ctufet if tbs late
IS mortality in Ibit city. The fubfeription book is at
to Mr. Ormiod's book-store, Chef.iut-irect, No. 40.
)0 ,
d T.HIATHCAI, COMMUNICATION.
0 MXS. M EKRY'S ISAAJZLLA*
tr . THE interfiling and affefting tragedy of Itabella
r, is not furpaffcd by any extant, in unity and propriety
le of plot and »&ion—inelegance and fuhl irmly of lan
guage, it is rivalled only by the produfhoni of Shak.
Itl fpeire. The whole weight and tnterell of the piay,
(1 as lh? name imports, reltj on the charaftea of Ifabel-'
r _ la j end a more arduous and difficult one ij not to be
found in the whole range of the drama. The great
appliufe with which Mrs. Whitlock had performed
'® this pan, led to the general idea that it was her flrtc.
'f But whatever merit may bo allowed to that lady io
II chara&ers marked, like Lady Macbeth, &c. by the
e awful and 'ublimr, in the tender ard pathetic, as Ju
liet, Monimia, Belvidcra, Calilta, and we may add,
lt too, Ib.bella, Mrs. Merry yields the palm to no ac« I
_ tress living. Her performance of last evening was
e I pathetic in thehigheft degie<J : She (aliened the mind
to eaaer and anxious attention, from firft to last; and
cold tn ft have been heart which could reman
1 unmoved amidst so exquisite » reprelcoialioo of woes
J so severe. Wc are inclin'd to think tint this will be
c ell ima ted anvongft thefirft of hef c'ufr.'dtjrs, by thof.-
t who form their opinion less liom th? lmprefliM o'
| 1 mple excellence than from a due cbnfideration o
1 I 'he genius, abiliiy and exertion requiftte to fuimtha
excellence.
j PRICE OF STOCKS.
j Philadelphia, 'January 16, 1797- '
S ix Per Cent. *6/y to lod
" 3,™ r / ,I t ' A x°/4 5d
t Deterred 6
. BANK United States, 2 2 percent.
: 4-ennlylyaniSt, per .ybik. ' 1
. North America, 45 per c<ya, |
( Insurance Co, Penul'ylvaiiia, j to 6 per cent.
. I—N.1 —N. A. {hares 40 per ceat.
The Eastern mjil had not arrived when this c
paper went to press.. (
LEAR.MING and JJCOBINISM.
Amidst the rapid progress of their terrible
arms and flill more terrible principles, the mo- f
dern Goths have found in the va:4ous femina- (
ries of learning, which previous to their inroads *
illuminated Europe,the mofli nfurmountable ob
flacles to their views : the.annihilation of c
those institutions, as their arms have progreiled. 0
ThecelebratedHniverfityofParia early fell before ti
them ; That of Louvain it appears hasjuft ex- ti
perienced the fame fate. An empire founded
o* dullness and ignorance mtift needs beat odds o
with learning, and improvement! in eve
ry form; and they have accordingly been per- d
fecuted with a zeal proportioned to the rharadl- a
er and principles of jacobinism. The faithful
rlt-vei of the original lchool, haveflrenuoufly imi- p,
tated in this country her woithy example. But w
as ignorance does not here prevail so generally S<
as to prepare the public for their pßifowys and qi
unqualified pouons of equality aq'd"fraternity,
their labours have not been attended with the
fame deflru£live fuccef3. The colleges and their
profeflors, with the great bndy of the American
c ' er gy, still retain their jnft rank in the p«biic C
efletm, Ihmijh fhev ba»e tfeen the <ontiuoal fel
objeifls of the most rancueuus and detertnitted of
malignity—and have been unremittingly idlail- £W
ed by all the infernal arts whole hell of ; n
jacobipifm. The University Of Louvain, (fays
he Barbarian who recitefr the ilory of ils alto- P a
lition) was the principal asylum of fanaticifsi, ™ c
and ot those principles which were moil oppoiiie OTI
to the new regime! Faaaticifm, in Jar.lcu- lie
lottiih language, means religion. The n.'w re in!
girnt' describes the principles of modern liberty, to
equality and fraternity ■ W hat higher eiiiogium
coull he have pafTed. He informs us that the
deflroyers did not lay wafle the library, garden, ~
ike. as we might have supposed. The Gothic- TT
ilm of tJieir diijsrjitioiis would hav« led tliem
to Ivirn Up the library, like Oinar of riid, |,heir ne
wortl.y prcdeceiTeij and root, up the 1
il- but ivuri eis a prrprnfUy which reftra'ms tint
i'Vn jo} (fertrjflion i and the &!e aad .i2ilb*rflot} of
rfc J thefr Vj'.iia.bles, wisT cre> te new tftfcatu ps mis
so ithn f. from the fate ot learning in ttjofe coun
t: tries which have fallerf tinder the dominitms of
the French, may we learn to foftertvur own in
k»t flitutioiw *»■ a jealous and unceasing care, is
to the formidablesnd effectual "harrier agaiaft
to calculated and defighed to root up all
■il- the foundations of focicty. Let this bfrrier be
to once broken d"v rr and
111 " I'he hour quick hailrii! when, on equal feet,
to Rx.iitCii virtue and low vie" Mio.il meet;
nrr When envy, faiSion, indolence, (hall rage
jr- • ore wild tetr.jirft thrj' thijttoabied age ;
ne -Hitmn dignity fiiall'rnret itrdoowi, ;
;f(J Dew *n pcrilh, reason, worth, n tsmb
j ft In ttteirwk wiDt of iunontrttefkaft flft'd"
And bi-t equality (ball"cutie mankind.
j.[ t Then ffiall no pedant pri<fl with learned
n ,, Point out the sacred volume fo< our guide,
No more the civil law or moral page,
j ie The' ni'nd fnall fetter or the foul encage ;
.. Put fie on file the pile of arts fhaU raise,
, Andthe vafl alcove off creation bkze."
the
Yefyerday arrived from the Isle of France,
the brig Rose, capt. Meany, by whom we
. were favoured with the following.'
Mcjfrst Clajpoole,
,e- ; I SAILED from the Isle of France the
le, I of September; touched at St. Denis
he I ar| d St. two po«3 on the Isle of
I Boutbcxt) and arrived here in 79 days. A
re- I '"ft °f vefiels left at the Isle of France, with
ice I the l few remarks I fend you, 19 all the iotel
| ligesce I could obtain,
ito I Yours, See.
Ed JOHN MEANY.
he I Jantiary 19, 1798.
he
at I Lift of V jjcls left- a 1 Port N. tVefl, Iflt of
,p. I franse, 0 Sober ißtb, I 797.
in- I Arrived, August 22, {hip Belif.inus,
ed I Crownenfhield, Salem, from Madras ; Sep
»ij"| tembcr4th,- brig Putnoua, Moieton, Phil
[j(J J. adelphii, in 123 days; 6th, ship Elizabeth,
it't Thinner, New-Yorkj ft-onv'DonrdKntx, 119;
fit I 1 6th, -ship Ceres, Hodg*, F'lii'l: idelpki <.
ur I from♦Do'urdea'j,
Bennett, Charleflon id, Betsey,
K Smith, Baltimore, 150; Bth, Harmony,
Pennifton, Philadelphia, from Bourdeaux,
1 5]"> 9'h> Sea-Flower, Colmao, Philadel-
phia.
September 6th, the ship Elizabeth, Hen
ry Skinner commander, ofN. York, from
Bourdeaux, for Tranquebar, put into the
Isle of France for water, repairs, itc. 119
■ti-1 days from the Cordovan; was boarded off
r, j Cape Ortegal, by the British frigate Hebe,
. I off Madeira, by the British frigate Romulut.
I Oftober Bth, the sea-Flower, John C°l
as I man, of Philadelphia, from Pondicherry,
I for the Cape of Good Hope and America,
put into the Isle of France, having sprung
0 f J a leak on the passage—no material damage,
•a-1 O£lober 3d, arrived the French letter of
ic-1 marque Hirondelle, Captain Cochon, from
I Bourdeax. On the ift September, on La-
I gullus Bank, fell in with the American ship
lU " 1 Governor Bowdoin, of Boston, Daniel O
"z[ liver matter, from Batavia; took out of her
o. Mr. Folger, the chief oflker, and 8 seamen;
pot on board an officer and 13 men, with
I orders-to proceed for the Isle of France,
I touching at the Isle of Bourbon, at which
1 * I place the said ship had not arrived on the
I 26th Oftober.
k- I Capt. Oliver left at Batavia, the 13th of
J'. I luly, the following vessels :
be I P° ,! y» Delano, Boston
a r I 'Olive Branch, Lambert, Salera
•d I Four Sifters, Rea, Beverly
■' o I Eliza, Hodges, Salem
, c I Concords Thompson, Philadelphia
u- Minerva, Loring, Bollon
J ' 0&. 9, an embargo was put upon all
3S ships in the Isle of France bound to India,
dI to continue unci) the 22d. Same day arri
ld I ved the French corvette Brule Geule, from
.j I Tranquebar; /poke in lat. 10., 00. S. ship
)£ j Betsey of Salein, Orne, from Calcutta,
f- I About 8 days ago fell in with a Danilh
'' j brig, water logged, with her main'malt gone, !
, I from Barcelona for New-York, loaded with
I brandy and nuts—three hours after, spoke ;
I the schooner Nancy of Philadelphia, Wil-
I son from Georgetown, Savannah, out 62 '
J days and bound for Philadelphia, short of
J I water and provision, coafigued to Samuel
' I Allen—Capt. Wilfoa spoke the brig Bet
" I fey of Sdlem, N. Phippen, from X,eith for I
I New-Vorfe orrt.72 days, fupplfed him with 1
j fbme rice and potatoes, and took from the
I Betsey a part of the crew of the (hip Com-
merce from Grenada boundforßofton which
I capt. Phippen bad taken from the wreck n
I of the said ship on the 6th of Decembfr, -
lin lat. 35, 4, N. long. 66, 34, W. Al-
I so the sloop Rambler of Philadelphia, from
I Wafhingtoii, out 21 days, short of provi
sions. January 12 took from the wreck of "
the Danish brig Sophia from Barcelona for a .
j New-York, Michael Sars, mailtr and the ir
crew of the said brig,ten in number, which e >
on the 1 ith sprung a leak and was obliged
to cut away the mammaft. been on
the coast 12 weeks. v<
The corvette brought in a very valuable prize, j p
one "'the company's (hips from Bengal. j fu
The American (hips were embargoed several
days, in confrquenee of war being reported by !°
a Danish velTel.
General Bowles, the Cherokee chief, had flop- I"
pedat the Isle of France, from Manilla to Spiin, m
where he was sent by the Spanifli government, of
Several Uhade-lfland vessels were in Mofambi- i"
qm channel procuring fljyes. t«;
. fl<
BOSTON, January Ix. ,
By a letter dated on Sunday last, from ed
Capt. Magee, of the ship Grand Turk, on
fotelyftrandedatPortland, welearn that most
of her tears, nankeens, and other goods be- i„
iwixt decks, had been discharged, although ' ei
in great confufion, and that it was expedlfd P n
part of the goods in the lower hold would
be got out. The ship lay on her beam ends
one fide entirely under water on the rising P?
tide ; the sea regularly ebbing ?ud flowing
into her; —and that great loss must «cure t „ (
to the concerned, from this unfortunate m;
event. w<
Hyson and Young Hyson.Tea. tnl
A few then- of excellent quality, For Sal , cor
ner of Second and Pine llreetv v/.
December 'ls. eotf
£ . NEW-THEATRE.
of ON SATURDAY EVENING;
n ' JAN* VARY 2p,
* s Will be prefci<ted. the cd*qhrat«tl Co »>#vjv of
$ The J E W.
l. Vn which will he
•THE CRITIC;
, Or, A Tragedy Rtljcarfcd.
Fof Londonderry,
William Wliitteu, miller.
A ftiansh gooj vessel, has the
greater
e soon as the navigation permits. If freedy appfics
tioo is made, a few calks will b taken on frc:(4.«;
for which, and pafTttge, apply ro the Captain, at
Cuthbert's wharf, or the fubferibers.
yvin Styriu,
Lautirt, i rjfr r'» wharf, or
Georgt Dob fort,
e » No. »? South $d Street,
A Gardner wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, mc!
who would occaGona'ly attend market, may
hear of a pbee by at the n mile stone,
"® oy the Brifiol road, or No. icy, Arch ftret;,
Philadelphia. A single man would be prefered,
A Jan. io. aawtf
Princeton —Neuv-Jcrfhy.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House In which
the fato Mrs. Ann Witbeffpeon, now Mri,,
Ann Walter, lived; together with all the | ppur
fenaoces. Ihe house is twt> dories high, 1 ot frame
work, anrf painted. Trie re are are four room*
°J and an entry on the lo\ycr floor, and five ro«niJ
oti the second 2cor> Ihe cellars are <lry, and thj
Sj giftret fpacious-—Thu back yard is paved with
p. ftOßes, in- it are a well of excellent water, an
jj_ Oven, a lrfiV*t house, and bouie for alhus—and
, . !it a caVringe houf; hay loft, gra."»ry, an 4
"> c with fojir'ftalls forborfes, and
) i four for nea\ cattle, ihe lot is 6dfeet wide upon
a . the •<! Wfr Wit * t,*rr ia.>l i' <»i wni i: than
j oae half of uhfch is made i»to a kitahen garden
' of an exsel'cßt foil.
5' For terms, which will be made very
y> apply to the reverend
*• SamUel S. Smith.
!i ~ January 19 aaw4\v
FOR THE CURE OF
" COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS* CON
ie SUMPTIONS,
( j And all dtforders of th 9 Breajl and Lungs,
ff Church's Cough Drops
C, Is a medicine unequalled hy any other in the world.
CtR +
j "I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
moil levere (pough, Cold, and violent pain in my
'y bread,,by taking only a few dofos of Df. Caoncu's
l, Cough Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
g Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
n To Dr. CHURCH.
. »!*,
Having been recently redored from the brink of
P thegrave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it
I- my duty to make this public acknowledgment of
T the fame, for the benefit of others affli&ed with a
similar complaint. I had been afflicted with a mJft
dreadful adhma for about twenty-three years. I
never for years got any reft, my cough was fa
troublesome in the night ;.and used te discharge an
[1 almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
e from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
short that 1 could not walk across my coom. Pro*
r videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking them. alone, I am now,
blessed be God ! restored to perfeiS health. My
cafe is will known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Field, of which I am
also a member ; andany of them will gladly fa»
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
lay. 1 am, iir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANS WORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Windmill
1 . Hay-market.
W itnefa,
' S. L»»owoiTar, jun.No. 40,
Pultney street, Goiden-lquare.
> CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and fold (only) by the inventor awj
1 sole -roprietor, i)r. James Church, at his Medi
cine 1 South Third-street, next the Mar*
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New.
j York, by Melfrs Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-ftrcct,
and Miss Wcdman, ill Willijih-ttreet.
Dr. Church may biionfulted everyday, at hi»
office, 158 South Front-flreet, Philada'phia.
3awiw
All I'eri'ons
Having any demands agamft the Estate of the
late Captain Olorgte lr\»in, are requdted to
briinitin therr la counts pifiprHy atteftcd, on or
before the firlt day; ot January next ensuing
and those who are inde'ited to laid estate are (o
. licited to make immediate payment to
SAKAII IRWIN, Adminiltratrix.
Nov. 29 1797
Salisbury Estate.
rHE Subscriber, propafing to his bufi.
liefs, offers this Eftite for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very gifod grift
Mill, with two pair ol ftonet ; also a good Fo'ge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this Sute.—There are »bou* two thousand acrcj
of Land, one half of which ijundcj •Wood, the other
very fine arable Land, produlfing the bed Hay snij
Failure. The Cannon lately manufactured there
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in theworlij ; for not cuie «f futv-nire gur»
lately m de, although some of the 24 we re bored
in»«32 poundets have Uiltd on proving. T!ie fuu
atioil is very eligible, pajticular y foi'this branch of
inanufaflure, and a place ot aims lving in the Bate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land
iiigs on the Hudson's liver, and having every advan.
t4ge that caiiMefutt Irom a plenty of water issuing
fiom a large na uial pond, very near ihe Furnace
and whi h may be converted into a variety of orher
uleful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wvh all the ftosk and and have pofleffion
on or beioi . of June next, and preparation
may be made ltfMi-ineivi time for going into Blafiim.
mediatcly-thereelWr; for ev«ry pm witl-be delivered
in good order, with fotre coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terinj, apply tn Mr. Jofflph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E'q one of ihe Keprefentaiivea
in Coogrefs (or <his State ; Mr, Wateiman, oi»
ihepremifes, or to the piooiieior in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOV.
D"- 3 a»tf
A perion well acquainted with
the theory an,dpradice of book-keeping, whohasieea
mapyyeai in bufinefslorhimfelf andpthers,
would be glad to b" employjcd, either as an agent
or factor ; or in polling books ; dating un'.ett)«4
accounts ; or in executing any o.her kind of writ*
ing, in French orEtigliSi.
A note atfSrefied to J. A . and left at this office,
will be punctually ittculed to,
noV.mber 33, 34WtfT " *■ mmmmi .
Of
PROPOSALS
riM
s O * M
CARRYING THE PUBLIC. MAILS by
011 the following Post""Roads will be rc-
chived at the General I'oft Office until
the 14th day of February next iitclulive. J
ari
PENNSrr VA SI A, Wc. Le
T. Frsm Philadelphia by Wilmiugtin, Newcaf- a 0(
tie, Cartwrll't bridge, Duck creek, Uo»cr,i red
erica, Milford, Cloughv ' r a'.',
Snowhilf, Hornt#iwn*anl Accomac ccairtf tp ha
Northampton court house thrte timer* wptk tie
April Itu Nf/ucnber 15. I.'.'ave Phila-clphiaejr
ery Tuesday, Thuifday and Saturday at 2A M,a:id
arrive at Northampton court house on rhtifday, to ,
Sarurday and Monday at pm ■ Rrtamiug. l.ave g u
Northampton court house every Fri lay, MonJay on
and WcdK. fjayjat 2 am, and arrive at Pitiladel-
phuoc Monday, Wedntfday and Friday by 7 '*» )n
P M. ..SI
AW.vi/r 15 to Afrit I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m, an(
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, ■
Monday and Wcdnefday by 7 F M * R' t ' rn ' ,l S at
Leave Northampton ceutt honfe every Saturday, v
Tuesday and Thursday at 6a m, and arrive at e
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday at
by 7 r m, rr
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court houfc to Norfolk ,
tlwae times a wnk. Gr
April I tt November 15. Leave Northampton t0
eourt houle every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. r ; v
JiefMrnin^ —Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- ; jvi
ohy and Monday a4a M, jind arrive at Norfhamp- d a
toil CO 1 thoufe in twenty four hours. 1 ry
Nov-mlcr is *0 April I. Leave Northampton by
court house everyTuefday.Tharfday and Saturday
at 3A m, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. Rc .
turning—Leave Nor folk-every Monday, Wedaef- j
day and Friday by 4 a M,*nd arrive atNorthamp- on
ton conrt house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA Iff MARYLAND. arl
3. brom Philadelphia by Wilmington, New- ; n ,
port,Cbrifliana,Mid<»etown,Wirw ick andGo^fgj-. i ar ,
town cross roads toChe(lerftownthrc: times a week.
May ito Novemitrl. Leave Philadelphia every an
Sunday, l uefd.y and Thursday by 9 p «, -
r:ve at CheOertown the next days hy 8» m. JU- \ an
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday Wed- j R(
nel'da'y and Friday by 9p m, and arrive at Phda- n0
delphia the next days by 8 P m.
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- t „,
ry Monday and Friday by 9 AM, and arriva a* ho
Cheflertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 p «•
Returning— Leave Cheftertown every Monday and M ,
Friday by 8 a«, and arrive at Phdadelph.a on A
I'uefday and Saturday by 4 p m. Y<
bl AWL AND. Le
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, at
Newmarket, Vienna, SalHbury,Snowhill andPnn- a t
tefs Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- ho
day at 7a m, arrive at Eafton by 4P m - L,e J v 'j ha
Eafton on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill La
on Friday by 1 p. m, and at PrinceU Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning —Leave Princes* Ann on Saturday by ar
,0 aM, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday a
by 6p m Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8 a M,and er
arrive at Chsftertown fame day by 4* M • ' nc
5. From ifcdord by B. l-Air to the Black herfe
once a week. ,
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arriv- at Black horse by 6» m. R,t.rn,ng— Leave an
Black horse on Wednesday by 6a m, and arrive at u.
Harford the Tuefday Uy 9 a m. »t
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR■ d=
GINJA,
V 6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown he
Pa. once a week. . or
t.eave Baltin.bre every Friday by 4 P m. arrive
»t Blackhoffe on Saturday by 10 a m, andarrive n
a'Yorktown by 8 pm. Returning—Leave York- L
town every Thursday by 7 Am, and arnve at Bal- Sl
timore on Friday noon. _ _ L
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Peterlburg, c
Taneyton and Fredcricktown to Lecfburg once a tJ
week. ,
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8a m, arrive g
at Fredericktowr. on Tuesday by 5 p m, andarrive
at Let fburg on Wedntfday by 2r m . Returning—
Leav- I,i tlburg every Friday at »oo», andarrive
at Yoiktown by 6 p m on Sunday. ,
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown, Gcttifburg,
Fairfield, Eliiabethtown, Williamfport, Martinf
burg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown evfcry Sunday by noon, arrive n
at Martinfhurg »n Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tutfdby noon andarrive at Wood- a
(lock on weduefday by 6p m. Returning— Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- f
tinfburg on Friday by II a m, andarrive atYork- r
town on Sunday by 11 a M.
9. From Pittlburg by Cannonfthirg, Waihing- 0
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fishing creek once a week (contrail for one year | (
«nly.) , «
Leive Fittfburg every Friday at 9 * m, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Sunday at 9a m. Return- .
j„ x — creds on W«Wdaf-»t 8-a, u, ,
and arrive at Pittftnirgon Friday at 8a m. ' .
IQ. From Waldington by Btownfvillc andlJnian ]
to Morgantown once a week. _ ,
Leave Union every Fridiy at 6 a m, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Wafbington on
Saturday at 6 a m , arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 r m.
M From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bethtowu, Greencaftlc and Chamberfburg to Ship
penlburg once a vreek.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, atEli
zibethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by 7' M - Riming— Leave Shippenf
burg every Toefday at 0 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 P m , at FrtderUktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 PM.
. MARYLAND.
I». From Eliiabethtown by Hancock and Old
town'to Cumberland once a week.
LtaveCuirberland every Satu/day by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizabethtown on Monday by 8 a h.
Returning Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
jo a m, and arrive »t Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm
-13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a si, and
arrive at Annapolis by Jm. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 AtM, and arrive at
Baltimore by sm.
14. From Baltimore by " nnapolis, Queen Anns
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobacco, *l
- Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a week. .
Leave Baltimore every. Friday «( T° a arrive
ai Annapolis at 5p m. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon, arrive atPifcataway by 6 r si. & arrive at
leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' dock.
jletyrning l.eaveLeonardtown evtry Monday at 3
p m , arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Uppier Marlborough on Wednesday by
II am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a it, and arrive at
Baltimore by3P «.
15 From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert courthouse to 3t. Leon
ards once a week
Leave Annapolw every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards »n Monday by km. Rt
tuming— Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
p m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 A M.
16. Frotn BWenfturg by Upper Marlborough,
i Nn n ;liam, Lower VfarlWough, Acquafco,Bei)
neduA and Jha-f">ttvh:.U to Cnaprico oncea week. * n,i
Leave Ulidcnfourg. v.ry Saturday at 9a u, ir- Re:
rive at Doner Marljorouijii by noon and at Lower 5t
MarlborotigHon Monday by sr«,it it Cliaptico >
1 by 6r M. Returning — !
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Biadenfbuigon Satur-
day at 6 a m. j
17. From Georgetown by Montgomery
house to Fr dcricktown once a week. p 0
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, ami
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pu. Returning ,
Leave Fredericktown every Thursday by 5 A M » fhi'
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 f m. CV {
VIRGINIA. da
18. From Woodcock by Newmarket, Roclcinp- A
' han court house, Staunton, Lexington and Fkicai- fh
tie to feig Lick once a week. cve
Leave Woodftock every Fhuridsiy by 6 a M t ar-
rive at Staunton on Friday at li* m. Leave Staun- P
» too every Friday ac ? ru, arrive at Big Lick on to.
1 Sunday by ir am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
on Sunday by 1 p m, arrive at Staunton every I uef
dayby II a m. Leave Stauntom by ii o'clock bet
1 )noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wcdnefday by wc
5 r M> '
19. From Big Lick by Montgom ry courthouse arf
> an 4 Wythe court house to Abi«gdon once a week.
• I Leave Big Lick every Sunday at Ip m, arrive 311
'! at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 2 p si. aod at j
- Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning— w
Leav« Abingdou,eyery Thursday by 6 a k, arrive j*. j
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 pm, and ar- , t
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by II a m. rt> r
TENNESSEE. on
10. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough .
Greenville, Moffat's (tore and jefferfon court houle t oi
to Knoxrille once a week. Ha
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6A m, ar- mc
• rive at Moffats store on Saturday by 8 a.m. Leave Le
Moffatsby 9a m, and arrive at Knoxrille on Sun- riv
' day by io a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
| ry Sunday by * p m, arrive at MoSits ot) Monday
by 3p m. Leav» Moffat# *»n Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wedtufday by 7p «. ' 1
VIRGINIA. 'p
■ [ si. From Winchefkr by Romney to Moorfields
once a week. j O:
Leave Winchester every Thursday ,»t 6a m, and w
arrive at Moor6eld »n Friday by 6P M. Return- c(
■ ! ing—Leave M nor field every Saturday at 8 a s«,and {r(
',! arrive at Winchester on Sunday by t> P M. w
> | fl. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leelburg
' and Shephefdll-O'.vn to MMtrnftmrg once a week. W
•j Leave Al':xa/idria every Wedn«fday at j am, W
'! and arrive at Martinlbuig on Friday by 10 am; P
• | Returning— Leave Martinfburg every Friday by C
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a to. C
43. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- 01
• t»ns, Tappahannock, Urbaiina and Gloucester court ™
' house to Yorktown oncfc a week. ~
Leave Frederickfbupg every Wcdnefday at 6 a
' m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
• am. LeaveTappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning— w
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
• at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive ai
at Frederickflcurg on Tuifday by 5 PM. L
14. From Tappahannock by Richmond court ai
■ house, Weflmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
' ham church and Northumberland court house to so
1 Lancaster court house once a week- ta
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
T arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11 ri
' am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court hbsfeov- Sj
i ery Saturday by 1P M. and arrive at Tappihan- "
no«k on Monday by 11 a m.
5 15. From Fredericklburg, by Qulpeper court
house &Orahgec.h. to Chailotufviileonce a week.
1 Leave Fredenckfburg every Tuesday at 10 am, r '
s and arrive at Gharlbttefville bn Thurfd»y by it a
t m. Returning—Leave Charlottefvilie cm Saturday
»t 8 PM, and arrive at Fredericklburg on T»eA a
- day by 6a u.
26. From Richmond by Gooehland court- a
1 house Columbii artd CharloltclviHe to Staunton /
obce a week. r
t Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p mvot
c rive'at Charlottefville oil Thursday by 11 A rft« *
" Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at *
" Staunton ®n Friday by 11 AM. Returning^-
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7p m, and arrive at Rich- t
s mond the next Ttiefdky by 9 A m. a
27. FraWJ Staunton by Bath court-house and
c Sweet Springs to Greentjritr coort-houfc once a a
c week. '
Leave Stiuntoti tvery Saturday at 6 a m, and
C arrive at Greenbrier court-houfeon Tuesday by
r 6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier aourt-
house every Monday by 9 *M, and arrive V .
0 Staunton on Th'jrlday by 8' f M.
18. From Charlatttfvile by Warren. War- ,
e min!ler, New-Market, Araherft court houfc, |
re Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
i- a week.
re Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p
r- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
s- p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 A m, and arrive at Charlotte£vilte
on Thursday by la a m.
°f 19. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
ar letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
er if carried inftages *• often a* they shall run.
'* Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5A M,
"" arrive at Toddt it 3P M, and at Tappahannock
on Thurftliy 'if tl a m. Returning—Lc*y{.
TippaVi-iunnrV qp IJloiiday at i p •». and ai>
rive at Richmond on Tueftl.y fcfjr 3 * ate*-*
ve 30. From Richmond by licpkWt, Powha
on tan court house, Cumberland court house, PrmiC
° _ Edward court house and Lyrichhurg to Ntw
at London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
!a . arrive ai Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
ip. m, and arrive it Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M,
and at New-London by 10 Am. Returning—
ive Leave New-London every Friday at a P Mt ar
ili- rive at Lynchburg by 5 P M, arrive at Prince
irg Edward on Saturday by 7 PM, and arrive at
nf- Richmond on Monday by 4 PM.
th 31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
'ay tie once a week.
Leave New London every Eriday at i p m,
and arrive at on Saturthy by 6 p m.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London onTuefduy noon.
tinvilleonce in (wn weeks.
' y Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
" M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
M * Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A'M,
and arr ' vea t Liberty on Tuesday by 6 P w.
■ave 33* From Prince Edward court house by
at Charlotte court house to Halifax court hou(e
once a week.
nnSi L«ave Prince Ed houfe every Thurli
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court ho«fe
>wn on Friday at 10 AM. Returning— H»l
---ifax courthouse on Friday bv 2 P M, and ar
rive tive at Prince Edward court houie on Saturday
5a- by 6P M.
ugh VIR9INIA axdNORTH-CAROLINA.
re at 34. From Halifax court-house by Halifax old town,
Dck. Carters, Martinville, Patrick court-bouse, Upper Sau
at 3 ra, Grrtnantown and Bethania to Salem once in two
P w weeks.
l,y Lkave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
• ave 2, PM, »od arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6,
Tat PM. Returning—LeaveSalem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and aariver at Halifax court-house on Fri
h day by tc, AM.
~ ' 5";. Fiona Hairis's by Hickes'aford to Halifax twice
:on- v 1
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
j, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
"4 AM, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
r by 4 VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield Southimpton ccurt-houfe
to Htckci's foid once a week.
leave <««vi > P f l ' *
and arrive it SniitnfieUi «w >aW'<l»V by 5. P a . e«*
Returning— Leave slll thfie a eve.y other Sand.y by trt&
AM, and arrive »l Hicks'*'<" 4on Mjaday by lay 1
2, P M , ' > ' »>"
37. FrbmGoldrotubyG-efbfSdge.St Tammany's, 3 t,
Meck'en'jerg and La icnby/ court-Houfcs and Ed- tmu
mund* flore to Golafon's >neeaweek. j1
Leave Goldfon'. every Wednesday at 10, A M, and tl
return Saturday bv a, 1' M, waiting at catn to c
Pufl-O.lice e hotifi afucdcUvery ol the mat . Ar
rißGl\'f/f bf N()X.TH'CARQLIX j-
38. From Suffolk by EHeowm, Plymouth and Wa-
fhingtori to Newbern, o#ce a week Leave Sun-iU /
every Monthy at noon, arrive at EH em on on 1 uel-
davit', p M, at p.ymouth, on Wednefd.y oy 6.
A M, at P M, and at New Bern on
Thurfdaybyj, P M. N.wbe.n
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at WalhiHgjon by
5, PM. Arrive at Plymouth o« Saturday by 4- ..
P M.'attdcntoftoo A M, andatSul-
folk on Monday by o, A M. ,
NOkilt-CMWU\A. '>
- g From Wenwnby Hertford, N.xontoe, El.«- *«,
brtfeity, a„d jo..ea—g to Indiao-iowo, once a '
W Uave Edentbn every Ve4»s ay by .. TM. and ri.
arrive at Indian-town on Thu-fday by 6, PM. R
turnuig -Lc«e IndiaMownevery 5, A M,
and arrive at Edeoton on Wednesday at 11, A M
4 0. From Halifax by Northampton e-urt-bou.e,
Princeton, Murtreelborough, W.ntoa and Windlor
to Kdeiitoii. once a week.
Leave Halifanevery Monday ft 9, AM, and __
at Edentonon Wcanefday by 3, P M, leave hden
tbnon Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive »t Halifax
on Saturiayby 11,-A M
41. From Halifax-bySco'land, Hog'on, Williamf
ton and Daily'i to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning J
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday a« to, AM.
41. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Washington onee a week
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, andai
riveat Wafhiugton qn Wednesday by 10 A M- Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at a,
pM, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM. .
4 ,. From Halifax by Warrenton.Williamlhoroiigh,
Oxtord, Hillfborough, Martinville, Slleni, Lexing
ton, Salifbary and Statefvijle to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras Court-house to Salisbury, and
from thence *y the fameioute to Halifax, once a
week it~ *
Wedpifdav at 4. P M - « Silem on S : , ■
P M, at Salifburv on Saurday at 4, P M, and at Li
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Chailotteon Mondiy at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury c«
on Tuesday by to, A M, arrive atSalemion Wed- jjl
ne(3ay at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9, C c
A M, at Warrentmon Saturday at 7, P M, and at j;j
Halifax «n Monday at 6, AM D<
44. From Hiliflorough by Mount Tirzah, Peiton
court-house, Leafhirg, Cafwellcourt-houfe and Roc
kingham court-hojfe to Germantown once in two
weeks. t 0
Leave HiHfborwghevery otherThurfday at 6, A _»»
and arrive at Gemantowo on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hilft>orough opTuefday at 4, P M.
45. From Salon by Betliania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, M»rganton and Rutherfordtoa to Spar
tanburg itt S. C otoce in two weeks.
Leave Salem «reiy other Saturday at 5a m, and ar- y
rive at Spartanbirg-oa Wednesday at 5 ?m. Leave J[
Spartanborg eveiy other Thurf<Uy at . 7 A M » an ar " fti
rive at Salem th« next Monday at 6 f m. p
46. From Laiiftmrgby Nalh eourt-houfe to Tar-
boroirgh once tc
Tarbornigh'every Friday by 6 am, and ar-
riveat Louifburgby 6p m. Returning—Leave Louu
-1 burg every Satuiday by 6a m, and arrive at Tarbo-
rough by 6 r m. n .
47. Fromßakigh bySmithfield, Waynefborough, 0
and Kingston to Newbern, once in two r<
Leave Rafeigh evety other Tuesday by 8 a m, and ti
' arrive at PJTewbem the next Friday by 10 a m*
» every other Friday by « cl
p m, and arrive at Rifeigh on_Monday by 6 p m.
48. from katagfcby Chapel hill {
. and ifrom HifKbotough by Chapel hill and Chatham *
t court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wsit two
hoars at Cbathtm court-house.
' Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6a m, and ar
' I rive at HiU<borou S h by 6r m . Rdurnmg-'Utyt
' Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by l o A m. '■
I and Sprinjfield to Wilmington, and from Wtlmmg
ton by S. Washington, Saieflo and Sampson court.
1 house to Fayetieville, once a week.
. Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6a m. and
. arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at ip a. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
'• court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
» gemery court-house, Anfon ccurt-houfe and Rich-
C mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
P arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa- 1
6 lifbury every Tuesday no»n and arrive at Fayetteville
v on Eriday by 6m.
6 i. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
(• at Wilmington on Sundry by 6p. m. Leave Wil
k mington every Toefday at 10 am, and arrive at New
n. Bern on Thursday by 6p m.
1, SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA
k sa. From Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
fg lot Be and Linoolnion to StatefviUe, once in two
r " * L««»« Camfcrt«vflr|e<»]her MowUy xt.» m ,
rive at StatefviUe by 6 r m Leave btatef
a" ville every other Friday by »p H, and arrive at Catn
lC den on Monday by 6 t M.
V- SOVTti-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnlltorough, Chetter
■l, court-house, Pimkneyvilie, SpartanWg and
P Greenville court-tioufe to Pickenfville, and
H, from Pickenfville l»y Lauren, court-house and New
— bury court-house to Columbia, once a week ■ waiting
r _ one hour at each pofl-office route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a M,airiveat
Spartanbuig every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
3 Pickenfville on Vhurfday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 r «c.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Char left on,
«> once a week.
yi. Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 A M.aod ar-
A rive at Charleßon on Thursday at 10 am. Returning
n —Leave Charleston every 1 liurfday at tp M, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SQUTH-CAROUNA GEORGIA.
&$• r ,om Etigebeld court-lioufe by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
p tonsford, F«nklin court-house, Elberton and PeterT
burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pe
tersbUrg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
by once a week.
Siij Leave Edgefield c»urt-houfe every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by g am
r f_ arrive at Fmklin couit-houfe by 7pm, at Petersburg
B C f on Tuesday by 10 am, a:>%l at tVafhington by 5 p
1 m. Leave Washington ev6>y -Wednesday at 6a h,
at Cambridge on Thurfday-by >0 am, and at Edge
ar" field court-house by 7p m . ,
lay 36 From Augulla W"lhkigum,Greenlbur e and
■LexingtohtoGeoigetown, ofcta week.* !
Lttve Augulta rvery Moivloy at 3 p M, arrive at
vn, Washington (Ml iiy tm, and arrive at
au- Georgetown on Thursday by j r u. Returning—
Wo Leave Georgetown every Friday dt 6a m, and arrive
at Augusta by noon on Monday.
f at 57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
6, Leave Beaufort every Thursday at »p m, and arrive
day a: Ga-idem Corner by B' »• Returning—Leave Gar.
Fri- dent Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by .0 a. m- .
" CC Note X. Tie fcj! Mcjftr General may aher the time'
l of arrival and departure a: any time during the continuance
irn _ of the contrdfls, Le prevroujly Jlrpulating an jdequate cork
,, g fienfatioet for any extra exfenfe that mdy beoccafioncdtberc.
b
Mote 1. Half an hour ji>all le Jor of nig
sU fj and eU/a«r tie Mail at all off -a where no particular t'ne
it fpCCljMl.
Vole For every hour's delat ( unjvoidal e tccidcvtl
etupted) inarritnn/r a/'er the timet prtlirihed many con
trsa, the Contractor Jhall JorJcit one thUat, and if He de
lay continue until the departure if any Mending Mat.,
wherebi the Mails ie/lined for such d'Pending Mtil, Icfc
4 trip, an additional forfeiture of five do-lan fliatl «
iiKurrcd• "
Note 4 Neiofpapert as well as Let'ersare to U- sent
in the Mails ; and if any person mating proffals deftree ft
to carry neiufp-lpers other Mi • tkofe conveyed in the mail, J,,
so, bis own em itument, be sr.ufi fate, in his propfals for
-ji'-jest funs be "will carry it -with tbat l emolument and far t |
■usbat fusn' ivitbout thai emolument.
Note 5. Should any person nsati.if proposals desire an
alteration of the tim. sof .irrnal and departure above fpe- {]
c,_&ed, beim.fl tatc in his pmpofals tie alterations deKresl,
ant the difference tbey ivili snaie in the terms of bit ctn
tr"Note 6. Person, maiing proposals are Jejired r» jiate J"
' their prices in gr-fs by tbe rem , and not by the mile. P
Tbofe njabo coitratt -.aill recede their pay fie.-rrprly, in
the months of -January, April, July an./ OfiJrr, m
drafts on the po/l offices tn the route and in bant notes. .
Note 7. The contrafls sire to be in operation on tie frit
day of April next, and continue for four years, until
i tic T,lfi day of March incluftve, in the year 1802.^
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pok-MaHer General.
Geniral Post Office, ")
Philadelphia, December 18, 17971 j
tuth&sti4thF
Tin Plates,
FOR. SALE BY
SIMON WALKER, \
Piire, near Fifth street. t
December 28. _
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York) a
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dob Son, i
No. is, foUt b Third street,
An exrenfive and general assortment of ,
' HABERDASHERY, viz. ;
' Bell London nflxt Pins Galloons and Ferrets ,
| Common do. do. Worfled Bindings,affor- ,
MakenzieS(\iper,patent . ted colours
white chapel Ntedles Imperial, diaper, and
I Nuns Thread no. 6to Throad Tapes j
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
L I.iflc do. no. 130 to jo.o, Black -nd coloured Chi
; regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
' Coloured do!" Sattin and figured do.
• Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to iad
1 Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Suttias
1 Silk and cotton Wires French Catabrick
Do. de. Ribbands Scotch do.
1 shirt Moulds and Wires Pl»in gilt and pkted
Black brufb Feathers Buttons
' And a compleat assortment of Goods, suitable
to the present and approaching ftafon, at reduced
| price. Ptc. 6. dtf
. ~Mujical Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-ftrcet.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
H yi R p E R,
" TNFORMShis friends and the public, that he has
e 1 now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
" and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonofahant and French harp
" flop, which soT sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftrudlion, the
j- ftsperiority of which,he flatters kimfelf, a single tti
,* al will convince the unprejudiced jndge— As they
arc roanufa<ftured under nis immediatt infpe6lion,
, of the very be®.-feafondd materials, he can fell on
' reasonable terms for Cash. Instruments repaired,
d tuned, &c.
i. N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
-1 change for new. r*
novemler 18. tawllAo.
- Sarnuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPEWINU,
r . A t thair Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefh
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
ve the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
irt Tbey have also for Sale,
g- Lisbon
luarter1 uarter ca " cs '
Port Wines, 3
e - Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
M » 10th mo- 23d. drwnawjw.
ph Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jireet,
' ' TTAVB received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
n( j tl which they are now opening for sale, on
j a . reasonable terms. Oil 27. —4 W
lie FOR SALE,
By the Subscribe*, at his Store, No. 7J, South
to Water-street,
ive A general assortment of China
il- Ware
w ~ Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. L«teftri»gs
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
iar ~ Do. do- fewing_Silks
wo Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and fliort Nackeens
"fl Quick Silver, in tuts
" Hollan'l Gin 1 , in pipes
Assorted Olafs Ware, in,cafes
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
ll'„ r Molasses, in hogsheads
ail d St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
■nd London particular Madeira Wine
iw- Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
;ing Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
. Logwood, &c, &c.
eat ttov.J. —tu&f4W JDS P. Plf SIMS'
ins Frelh R.aifms.
1 oa
ton, A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
JEIL at Chefnut street wharf, from thefloopVa
ar- rico, capt. Hafkell, confiding of Kegs, Boxes and
ling Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and facki
1 ar- of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Mattel
on board, or to
"Jos. Anthony Iff Co.
lat'- December 19 §. ;t
le p r c r Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
>ufe Payable by law on all-Good*, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States-—latef
aw, edition, to be fold by JOHN' ORMROD, no. 41
a m Cha.fnuC'ftreet. x Dc-c. 16—d
bu J This Day is Published,
S J BY Meir. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and th
' Otbei ftookrpiltrs.
Price One Dollar and i/weniy-fjve cents.,
and Elej>anliy printed on IVuvr paprr, and Hoi
prejfed,
ve at By John Th*mpft>n, M.~-
c M A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
rrive The Cbnlti tut ions
eelc Of the several States with each other, and wri
rr ' v j that of the United State.; exhibiting in Table
(;ar _ the prominent features of caeh Constitution, ar
v' ca * t classing together tbtir most m pertant provifior
under Teveral heads of adminifuation ; wii
Notes and ObfvTvations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
uanct /
■ com- Of Suvth-C<iri>hna,
there. L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of t!
United States.
■nig Dedicated to tha People of the UniredStates
t.'ne N. B. A few- Oopi s printed oil an inferior p.
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
City Commifiioner's Office
;"January, tub, r«v.
TOR THE INFORMATION OF TH» CIT!IE.WS
T HE fol'ouinjt-amngemem i» ma de by the
X laid Commiflioneri, for cJeautSns the
streets, &c. ®
Ptftriit No. i.r-From the north fide »f Vine
street to the f„uth fide of Mulberry-Arret ;to
be under the fiipenntendi.eeof Nicholas Hicks.
_ 8, From the leuth fide of Mulberry, street, to
the south fide of Chef.mt street to be under the
luperinbaure of William Moulder
3> Fr0 | , m r!, he [°o tb fide °* Chefnut Arret to '
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperinteridance of Joseph (Maypoole.
4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide- of Cedar street, to be under the fu-
of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
The Subicriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inflec
tion since Decsmber 1796 are balanced to theVift
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation end fcrut ny.
«... , , . . JAMES GREENtEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(11798.
JuJl received a trejh Suppl f:
English Grammar,
Ti'* second edition 9 u>itb improvements
A DAPTED to the different clfffes of learner
J. withl an appendix, containing rules and ob
firvations for affift.ng the m«e adVasccd (Indent
to wi ;te with perfpiruity and accuracy
Br LINDLEY MURRAY
" This » a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeflions in the Title. The apo.n
dix contains fomeof the belt rules for writing el
cn •" WUh P ro P riet y. th *t we recoiled to
<« i.v r Month b Rrvisiv, July 1706.
r to rim™!?™" ,S ' 00 many accounts entitled
to commendatory n.tite, its material, haye been
! iu arjaiigcment
"diftiftA and well adapted to the purpose of in
. ftr " aM>n and «• «preffio„ i, simple, perfpicuo..
and accurate, &c t " r
1 D See tbe 'Eraser at Urge in the Jnahtual
Re-view, July iy 9 q.
Engliflj Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published by
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts of fyeech, inftancesof falfe orthosrraph*
Violations of the rules of fynrax, defers in punc
tuation, and violations of the tules refptkiri
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f.r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of schools
, "We have been much pleased with the per ufal
• of thtfe Exercises. They occ.py with riiilinguifh
■' | ed excellence a most important place in the fcicftcc
_ of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them t# the Teachers of
Schools, as weU as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corrcclnefs and precision in their native
1 tongue.
J Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are forfile at Joseph&Jam««
I, Crukshanks book store, No. 87, Market street.
h _ l anua *y 3taw2w.
f 60 Dollars Reward.
e 1) AN AWAY from the fabfcrlbnr, on the 34 th
i- JX. of December, 179 j, a N.gro Man, about zt
y years old, by thy name of Cato.he is about 5 feet
i, 7or 8 inches high, tripling well proportioned; he
n has a very coarse Voice, his fore teeth stand very
i, f«r apart; there were one or two with hrm--l *
cannot rightly defcribt the cloaths he took with
t- him, for he took two or three suits ;he had on
I » T*ir of ttrfey trovrlm. 3
_ j half worn drab cftiaufed coat, aliill V-OTrrrroot
>— I hat ; he took with him four very good fhlrts—l
' Ifx peel he has made for Philadelphia or the ]eiteys.
I Whdfoever takes up said negro andfecureshim, so
_ I that the owner may get him again, (hall have the
I above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
t0 j Living instill PohJ, Kent county, Maryland.
5" January 2. *(>taaw_
Wanted, to Hire,
\ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or neat
Its- I A the centre of the city—for which a generous
I rent'will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
j more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Ofl. 17. eotf
Valuable Books,
I Just received by the Fai* American from
J London, and now opening and felling by
on J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
ath i tis. These added to O's' usual stock, form an
I exteiifive and elegant coliedlion of ancient and
_. a I modern literature, and comprise books in lun-
I dry languages and on various fubje&t.
j This Day it Pullifhid,
I By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
I bound and lettered, and embellilhed with an
I elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Lookifig Glass for the Mind, <
0
The Juvenile Friend ;
es Being a valuable collection «f interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy efi'edls of youthful in
nocence and filial affeaion—ln prose and verf«.
:s Designed to improve and amtife the rising geße-
I ration.
In the Press, and %)!l be speedily publilhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions lor this incomparable work will
I be thankfully received by the printer. The beok
l« n g will contain about three hundred pages, will be
Ya " printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
and I tjvered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
icks embelVifhed with an elegant frontifpiece, Sat one
I dollar.
I January ,t
a This Day Published,
- And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
i, I Secoftd and Chefihit ftroets,
4er- J ' Price vf a Dollar,
ueft J Observations on tertain Dscuvi£nis
I Contained i* No. V and VI of
•J— •« The History of the United States sot
1 the year 1796,"
thc 1 Io which the cuarue of speculation asainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
tj . I Late Secretarv of the 1 *EA9tr*y, i» FULLY
I REFUTED.
W R I.T TS N Br UtMSStr.
" I This publication presents a coneife itatement
I of the hafe means praciifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaflers of tjrbfs
J parsons who are conftdered as hoflile to their difor
wrth anizin » schemes. It also contains the cor
ibles, refpondeoce between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
• and Monroe, Muhlenbui-gh and"*, enable, on the fiib
fior.s, : ea ef the d oclim ents aforefaid.and a series of let
with ters f l om j am <» Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, provjrg beyond the poffibiiity of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynold*,
was the rcl'ult of a daring confpiraey on the part
' the of the latter and his associates to extort money.
if? A discount of one third frorathe
ates. will be mide in favor of whokfaie purchasers, for
rpa>- cash. Orders to be addrefled t6 Mr Young.
AuguH zy
*