<UuttCU States, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1800. J
FOR LONDON,
The copper bottomed sh i r
Captain Lockyer.
* A eonfiderable pai t of her
earjro h already engaged ; —to
■fill with all convenient speed Fur termi ap
ply to ROSS & SIMSOS,
No. lit, South Front-Jlreet.
j"«* »3 . , , . . ■ L
tor Sale by the Subscribers,
The following GOODS, jufl arrived in the /hip
Pigou, eapt. Clay, from Canton,
Bohca,
Hyson Skin, i TEA . *
Young Hyson,3
Sugar in boxes and La?*'
Awd a-qmntity of Ctffla
ALSO, TO •£' SOLO,
r-O-vThe said ship PIGOU,
> A ■well known, faft. failing Ship,
live oak and aedar frame, and c»p
pered- She
■26 fejrt 6 inches beam, 12 feet hold, and 6 feet
between decks.
Mordecrii Lewis,
JeJe & Robert Wain,
William Sanfom.
June XI. §iw
~L~ANDING~, '
At Walnut Str«<at Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
Matter, from Bourdeauxi
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas £s* 'John Ketland.
xl&iSrk. or a ' e '
With two pair four pound CAN
NON, and one pair lilb. CAR
RONADES.
may 29 §
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE SHIP
LIBERTY,
A 1 saac Vredenberger, Master,
good new vcfiel, fails well—
Lying at Wilcockj'Wharf, will fail al?out the tenthof
next month, a eonfiderable part of her Cargo being
engaged*—For freight or paflage apply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall veflelsto this port.
may 89 dtf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an excMlent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HoU'tngfworth iff Co.
No. 22, Little Water flraet, South,
april go.
ADVERTISEMENT.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command of captain Edward MUler, sta
tioned at Spring Gardens.
June 3</, 1798 —John M'Kiflbck, Jborn in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
marked, aged 28 years, (peaks broad, mlifted |
byenfign Root, at New fliunfwick, had on his |
full regimentals, stole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard and very a flu ruing.
June 6th —James Crawford} born in Chester,
State of Maflachufctt?, brown hair, grey eyes,
fair complexion, five feet i? inches in height,
aged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
: h» full regimentals and left bis post when on
sentry.— ilfo,
EliakimStow, aprifdner, born in Symlbury,
State of Connetficut, aged 36 years, black hair
dark eyes and complexion, a repeated deserter,
very afluming, writes a tolerable hand and is ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental shirt and over
alls when he deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above deserters
and return them to Spring-Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to any officer belonging to the United
States or confine them m any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained shall have ten
dollars reward for either of them, or thirty for
lhe three and all reasonable charges paid.
EBIVARD MILLER, captain
2d regiment qf Infantry.
* # * The different printers in the union are
requested to insert the above,
june if §
HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia, ijl May. 1798.
Extra# ef an a& to alfer and amend the Health
Law«of thra Commonwealth, palled 4ih April
1798.
g o o. ANDbe it further en a dad by the au
l\ thorityaforefaid, That every house
''keeper within the city as Philadelphia, the towfn
fliips of the Northern Liberties and Moyamsnfing,
xnd diilri.sl of Southwark, within a mil® of the li
mits of the cits, taking in boarders arriving by sea
*©r by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
iring any board«r in hisor her family, who shall be
taken fitk of any disease whatsoever, between the
firft day of May and the firft day of November in
.any year, wirhin twenty days next after such boar
der (hall CODC to lodge in his or her houfr, (ball
within 14 hours next after the knowledge of such
sickness. make report at the Health Office of the
name as such lick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or l\*r being taken sick,
and of the name and place of abode of such house-
JteepT; whereupon the Physician of the Healtfi-
Ofsce fha!l forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
aafe, that measures may be taken to prevent the
spreading of the infe&ion ; an i if any housekeeper
shall ntfgleA to gi*e information in the manner and
within the tin*- aforcfaid, and (haH be thereof con
viAed, in any court of crmiwal jcrisdiAion witi in
tlvis Commonwealth. upon indi&me *. by vcrdiA
ur confeflion, he or she (ball forfeit and pay a fine
totheufe of the said hospital, not less than twenty
<lnllars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
at the discretion of the court, according to
etic circum(lance* of gre iter or less aggravation at-
particular cafc.
iiy oriler o< the Board of Health,
WM AI Health OlHcer,
lawjin of the I'ort ol Pbiladclflia.
By John Fen no, N 0- 119 Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA.- MONDAY EVENING, yUb'E 18, 1798
C O N G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturd'ay, May 26.
(undry refolutionsrrom
Charles County, Maryland, exprelfiveof their
approbation of Government, and pledging
themselves to support its future measures.
.The bill supplementary to an act for the
relief of persons imprisoned for debt, and the
bill for providing relief for persons imprison
ed for debt due to the United States, were
read the third time apd paired.
Mr. Sewall called for the order of the
day on the bill from the Senate for the more
effectual protection of the Commerce and
Coaftsof the United States ; and the house ac
cording resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the said bill, Mr. Dent in the chair.
The bill having been read,
Mr. Macon rose and observed, that he
wished to amend bill and the pream
■ ble to it, and de(ired the Chairman to fay
which it would be in order to move firft. The
Chairman having anlwered that it would be
molt regularfirft to amend the bill, and then
the preamble could be made coniormable to
it, Mr. Macon moved to strike out the word
44 such," in the enacting clause (the etfeft of
which was to make the informations given to
the Commanders of our Vellels general againlt
all cruizers, as well as against the French.)
His reason for making this motion was, that
; if this bill must pals, it might be general
; against all Nations who commit depredations
upon our commerce, for it was a fait well
known that France is not the only Nation
which does this. It was his opinion, that be
fore any measure of this kind was taken, we
ought to know the result Of our million in
France ; for, however flenderour expectati
ons of an accommodation may be, (till those
expectations ought not to be abandoned, un
til we arc certain our Commillioners have left
Paris, without being able to accomplish their
mi (lion.
Mr. M. believed, it could not be doubted
by any one that if we had thought a ttate of
war, preferable to the itate in which we had
been placed forfome rime back, we had had
fufficient provocation from more than one Na
tion to have declared war long ago. Indeed he
looked upon this bill as a declaration of war in
iubftance ; he saw that this was the situation
to which measures was progrefling, but he
could not have expe&ed that gentlemen
would have proposed a measure of this kind
whilst our Commillioners were yet in Paris.
It was his opinion, however, that difagreeablg
as our present lituation may be, it is nui(;h pre
ferable to a (tate of war ; for notwithstanding
all the lofTes which our merchants have sus
tained, our trade and our revenue are conti
nually increasing.
In the part of the country from whence he
came, Mr. M. said, the price of produce is
now higher than it has been for lome time
past. But in cafe of war, it would fall of
course.
Notwithstanding all the evils wliich he was
sensible mult attend on aftateof war, when he
found our Comnnftioners had left France, and
no hope ofaccommodation remained, helhould
not hesitate to join gentlemen inany measures
which shall be necellary to meet a Itate of war.
Mr. Harper could not 'help being surpri
zed at the motives which the gentleman from
N. Carolina fa ; d had induced him to make
this motion. Gentlemen had heretofore said,
they were unwilling to take any active mea
sures against france until Negociation was
exhausted; now though they contefs that they
have no hope from Negociation, they are un
willing to do any thing against France, until
our Commiflioners come home. Yet the gen
ileman from N. Carolina willies to make this
bill general, and though he inlrfts upon its be
ing a declaration of war, he deifres it may not
be levelled at France only ; but at England
and Spain, to whom no renionltrance for their
depredations has been made, and with whom
no attempt has beeh made at negociation. Is j
it not astonishing that men who have always
exprefed themselves in favour ot peace,
fliould be able to get their consent to argu
ments which give the lie to all their former
declarations ; that they should objeft to a
measure, because they deem it a war measure
with one Nation, and (till be willing to em
brace it when it is made to apply to three
Nations. If gentlemen are thus blinded by
their paflionsin favour of some Nations, and
against others, he could only deplore that
blindness. If, 1 with their eyes open, they can
rulh into the measure proposed, and yet de
cline it when confined only to one Nation, he
left it to themselves to reconcile the inconsis
tency. And yet these gentlemen are continu
ally loading those who wish to take spirited
measures of defence, with the mod odious
epithets, as being friendly to war. He could
account for this inconsistency ot conduct only
from the violent antipathies and attachments
which he had already mentioned, which fee
mcd effectually to blin:! gentlemen as to what
respeCt the true interests of their own coun
try.
Mr. M'Dowe LLfaid, the gentleman from
S. Carolina had dwelt much upon the incon
sistency of the present potion. He himfelf
colud not fee any in it. He had insinuated
that the mover and seconder of it must be
blined by prejudice and governedby paifion ;
that instead of going to war with one nation
it would be going to war with three, and
that before we remonstrate with them, or re
quest them to desist from their practices ;
that we have been attempting to get redress
from France for eighteen months past without
effect, but that no attempt has been made to
negociate with England or Spain oh the sub
ject of their depredations. Ir. this the gentle
man from S. Carolina was certainly mistaken.
He knew we had lately concluded a treaty
with England, which had b?#n conftaiitly
violated; and what faith Mr. M'D. asked,
could be placed in a Nation which one day
a treaty, and the next violates it ? The
fame remark would apply to Spain, so far as
they have depredated upon our commerce.
Mr. M'D. said, he had all along declared
himfelf opposed to war, or to any measures
which would lead to it, and he (till held the
fame opinion. He had no prejudice against or
in favour of any Nation whatever, except so
far as their conduct towards thft country was
hie nelly or otherwise ; and he could fee-no
reason sot giving inductions to the Comman
ders of our vellels to seize and brfng in the
vessels of otic country which may ctnnmit de
predations upon otir commerce, and not those
of smother. He was hirr.felf opposed to the
bill altogether ; but if it must pals, hewilhed
to make it contain as little mifchief as pofti
ble, «nd he thought by striking out the word
" such," and by that means nuking it gene
ral, France could not take the fame offence
at it; jis the bill now tiood, it was tantamount
to a declaration ot war.
Mr. J. W1 ll.iams was in hopes when the
gentleman from N. Carolina firft made n\smo
tion, rjiat the opposition which he had here
tofore (How 11 was done away, and that the bill
was only objected to becau e it was not gene
ral ; but now it appeared that gentlemen are
opposed to the bill altogether. He had hop
ed when gentlemen had reflected upon wlut
had taken place, even within our own jurif
dict:on, that there would rot have been a tin
gle diirenting voice in the committee. Gen
tlemen alledge that this will lead to
war ; but he would alk whether other Neu
tral Nations had not taken measures fully as
ftrongasthis; without producing war I For
his part, he supposed it might have been bet
ter if this country had gone into this system
of defending our commerce. He wasoppofed
to it'for a eonfiderable time. He was in hopes
of areconciliation taking place ; but he had
been deceived from time to time, and instead
of any appearance of accommodation, every
day brought information which coimnced
him, that, except we meant to fubniit alto
-1 gether, we must defend ourselves. This be
ing ttoe cafe, he alked gentlemen which they
I would chufe) Whether they would futier
| themselves to come under the power ®t 4he
French Nation, or repel forCc by f«rce t He
i did not believe any gentleman would fay we
' oughttiot to embrace the latter* .
At a time when the enemy's veflels are
within our own jurisdiction, are we to with
hold the necellary instructions to the com
manders of our vessels f He hoped not. Not
that he Would go hastily into war ; but have
we not, he a(ked, been in war for a long time »
A war on one lide, and tutal fuhnviTiion on
the other. Yet the house are now,called up
j on to postpone the <tenfideraiion of this ques
tion, left it Ihould produce war. The only
! way to prevent a war, he believed, was to be
prepared to meet it. If spirited measures had
been taken during the extraordinary feflion of
Congress, he believed it might have prevent
ed the loss of property to the amount qf
twenty millions of and the neceflity
of a war. But Congress lUd gone on from
time to time, faying we will'wait (6r this, that
and the other, and it w ill, in all probability,
prevent war. This conduit had produced
the greatest difficulties, and yet gentlemen
wish to go further in the fime course. The
enemy's vessels, he tinderftood are within the
Capes, and he fuppafed gentlemen would
wait till they came up to the city before they
i would take any means to oppose them. He
! believed it wgs high time, to fay " we will
j not submit," and to prepare to rrpel the re
peated aggressions of our enemy. But gentle
men fay, " No, we will oppose the bill alto
. gether." Let us, said Mr. W. pass this bill
as it is, and if gentlemen chufe to bring for
i ward another bill against any other nation, he
(hould not object to it, if they refilled to do
;us justice. He was not in favour of one nati
on more than another ; he would relist op
pression from all. This bill, he believed
ought to be p.affed immediately.. Ifjt had
been pafled a *keek ago, it \Vould have saved
to the United States a large Ann of money.
Mr. Shepard observed, that much had
been said on thit bill, and on the refelutionis
011 the fjme fubjeft, which were referred to
the fime committee. Members differed ih
opinion very materially as to the proper mode
of conducting our affairs at this important
crisis ; blithe could fie no reSfon for defer
ring vigorous measures anv longer, as he did
not fee the least ground of hope-os a reconci
liation, it was therefore idle to diipute about
it.
He Would ask gentlemen so violently o"ppo
fed to th ; s bill, what they would do ? Ars
they willing to fend more envoys to rhfc
French nation, to sue for an accommodation ?
He supposed not; every thing which can be
done, has been done to effect an accommo
dation. Are gentlemen ready, then, to
give the money which had been demanded »
He presumed not. He hoped gfentlemen
pofleffed l to much American blood to
to any such thing ; wid (f so, why do they he
sitate to take the measure proposed, and en
deavour to throw embarrassments in the Way
of every measure of defence which Can be
taken. Ifweareto purchase peace, let ui
doit; if not, let us defend ourselves like
men. Or do gentlemen wish to wait until
more injuries, and more insults are added to
hose already received, before any step of de
fence must be taken, left it should lead to
war ! Will a conduct like this save America i
No ; it will not.
But "gentlemen decline taking this measure
because they are apprelienfive it will irritate
the French nation. Mr. S. believed this
country could do nothing to .alter th« conduct
ot the French nation towards us, «;cctpt it
were by giving them money. There could
be no doubt, lie said, but the French meant
to subjugate this government, and to lay the
United States inder contribution. Every
news paper told them this, yet some gentle
men seem opposed toevery thing intended to
refill their doing-, or even to tell them they
have done wrong. For his part, lie believed
that nation had been boiling over with mad
nefo for two years past, and that they are to
tally void of every virtue.
They have told us, said Mr. S. in plain
terms, they mean to subjugate us. They fay
they have a strong party in this country, and
that they understand diplomatic agency as
well as any other nation. This he believed,
as he faw-they had effectually tifed that pow
er in fnbduing every country ih Europe that
they -have any thing to do with, except
Great Britain, and he feared they would suc
ceed against her. No man, M. S. said, dislik
ed war more /han him ; but he believed the
belt way of preserving ourselves from it was
to take measures to oppose a power which has
so nnjuftly treated us. We ought ndf, he
said, to trifle any longer, but take new ground.
The more insults we submit to, the more we
(hall have. He could not suppose gentlemen
would be willing to wait till all our vessels are
taken and our government overcome, before
they will make resistance. If we meant to
preserve our independence, he believed felift
ance ought now to be made. It is time, said
he, to telt the French nation, "we will not
submit any longer." This was the way we
gained our independence, ami this must be the
way by which we must keep it. He hoped,
therefore, the bill would pais as it (lands.
Mr. Oris said, though he had fufticient
confidence in the committee to induce him to
believe that the present motion cannot (tic- '
ceed, yet he could not forbear to expostulate
with gentlemen on the impropriety of any
measures which fliould have a tendency to
give unneceflary offence to tfther nations be
lides that againii which we are called upon to
aft. To increase our foes would only be to
aggravate otir misfortunes. Mr. O. hoped
and believed this country would be able to
defend itMf singly and alone j but litppoCng
as gentlemen agree to be true, that we are on
the eve of a war, would it not be highly impo
litic to irritate a power whose alfiftance we
may find very acceptable in the course of a
few months again!) a common enemy >
hoped itw#uld never be neceti'ary to seek tor
11) sa.liftancc, though it ispoflible, it we arc
driven into war witn our old friends, that we
may willingly avail ourselves of the aid ofour
old enemies forthoughwe had flittered in
juries from more nations than one, yet he a
greed with our envoys in thelentitnent that if
France fliould attack us we must seek the belt
means of defence", and may find it more pru
dent to forgive than to provoke by harsh mea
fnres, a nation which may aid in our defence.
Mr. O. said, if alter injuries had been cont
mitied againfi us by Great Britain and Spain,
of the fame nature with those which liirve
been heaped upon us by France, and thofc na
tions like her, had refufed to hear us or to do
usjuftice, he'would support the faine mea
fnres againfi them and vindicate our national
character and honour. But though he should
by 110 means attempt toextenuaie the conduct
of Great Britain or Spain, lie believed lie
might fay that the depredations committed
by these powers subsequent to their treaties,
have been under colour at leaflof
nations. But the difference in the degrees
of these depredations in comparison with those
of the French republic, cannot be better as
certained than by thj rates of insurance paid
as a security againfi tiiein refpeftively.
Insurance may. be effected against the Bpi
nifli and Britifli for si epercent. whilst it can
j not be procured againfi the French for less
than 25 or 30 per cent. And though the
| British cruizers do, in some cases, take our
1 vefTels, in others they afford them protection,
j Indeed, he believed, the number of our vef
| fels rescued front the fangs of the French,
andreftored to us, by the Bririfh, greatly ex
ceeded in value the amount ot those which
1 have been taken from 11s by them since their
treaty. They have saved to Philadelphia a
bout half a million of dollars. With refpeil
to Spain, he believed her disposition towards
us to be friendly, and that any injury offered
by them to us was done at the instigation of
another country. Again we have received
under the la'e treaty with Great Britain
ioo,oool. sterling soT damages sustained by her
i depredations, and from Spain 300,000 dollars
hjive been awarded on the fame account. So
that no comparison could poflibly be made
betwixt the treatment we experienced from
France and those countries. She makes no
treaties—She pays no compensations.
The amendment is proposed, with a design
to hold up to the people the idea, that if we
were at war with France, we cannot calculate
to receive afliftance from any other country
having catife of complaint against all parties.
Gentlemen were certainly accountable to
themselves for their own conduit and modes
of expression, and doubtless think they ail
with discretion; but he believed that when
the warmth ot the present feflion and the ar
dour of debate should subside they would be
persuaded I hat cpmparifons such as they had
matte were not pertinent or judicious. Mr.
O. said, it whnld be recollected that gentle
men had acknowledged, that if this amend
ment was adopted, they should (till vote a
gaipft the bill. It' Great Britain and Spain
have injured us, the proper mode of proceed
ing, was firll to endeavour to obtain redress ;
and it that is not allowed, it will be time
enough to use force ; but with refpeel to the
French Republic, every kind of application
has beenexhaufted. There can be nuquef.iou
about war, the only way was to confiderhow
we fliould get an honorable peace. They
have made war upon us, and he believed we
should be more likely to obtain peace, by a
fpirrted conduct, than by base fubmiflion.
Mr. Kittera role to'obferve, that gn'e of
the articles in our treaties with Great Britain
and Spam, flipulates that 110 reprisals (hall be
authorized by either country until application
(hall be made to the other, which he thought
would be a fufficient reason for negativing ilie
amendment. He believed it would be proper
to adopt an additional rule to those already
efiablilhed for the government of the houle,
viz. that when French privateers came with
in our own ports and take our veflels, a long
debate shall not take place upon a bill to iu
ftruft the commanders of our veffcls to make
reprisals.
Mr. Gallatin in reply to the last olifer
vation of Mr. K. said, that if his assertion
was true that French privateers were commit
ting depredations within our own ports, orany
where within our jurisdiction, it was no rea
son why this bill fliould pais
for withoiff the bin, the President had full
power to apply the armrd veffcls, or any other
force at his dil'pofal, in repelling the outrage.
As to the amendment he would not pretend to
lay that it was very ell'er.tial ; but he suppo
sed the reason for moving it was this.
It was alferted that this bill was not a de
claration of war, but only a kind of special
reprisal author;fed by the law of nations, it
was therefore tlvnight it would be proper to
make it a general regulation. If it was in
tended to be a declaration of war, it would
be extremely wrong to make two enemies,
instead of one. If it was to be passed with
that intention, it would be wrong to adopt
the amendment; but he supposed it was in
troduced on the ground assumed by the sup
porters of the bill that the measures proposed
might be entered into without.violating the
laws of nations, and confidently with a (late
of peace.
In relation to the opposition which had been
given to the various war raeafures which had
been brought forward in the course of the
feflion, it was in the power of gentlemen to
have prevented the greater part of it, if, in
stead of going on step by ffep, the whole fyf.
tem which they had in vie* had been laid be
fore the house at once, only one debate would
have taken place on the propriety or-policy of
placing the country in a date of war. After
that had been determined, the other mealures
which mutt have followed in course would
have bjeen adopted without much debate ;
Wcaufe after tke country fliall b» declared to
\} T OLVMf. XIII.
be in a (late of war, it will be the duty of
every member to make it as effectual as he is
able, and as hurtful to the enemy as it can be
made; but To long as the country is declared
not to be in a (late of war, it is natural for iliefe
members who are ovpoled to war, 10 endea
vour-to prevent mealures leading to that (late
or inconfident with a date of peace ; but, if
war is once declared/ he would take upou
himfelf to fay no longer opposition would be
given to either d«. c enfive or otfenfive prepara
tions.
Mr. G. wished the committee had also
made a report upon the rcfolution on this
subjeCt lately referred to them by the house
which tltey lay they had not time to consider ;
and not that the house Ihould have this b: 11
to-day, another to-morrow, and so on, for
if it tpe intended at all everits to get into war,
the more effectual the measures are which
(hall be taken, the belter. He would at once
concur in this bill, or any one which Ihould
go farther, whenever the country lhall have
be;n declared to be in a (late of war.
All that had been said for the postponement
of this quedion, and againlt it, arole trom the
aitferent opinions entertained as to the pofli
bility of ao accommodation with France. He
owned his hopes on this subject are very (len
der ; but there is one (tubborn fact againlt
any hollile measures at present, the .negotia
tion is itill open, and .jur Coiiiinillijiici. are
(till in Paris ; and whiiA this continued to be
the cafe, although he was not able to account
for tlteir.remaining there, lie would continue
to vote againlt any mealures inconliden. with
a (late of negociution.
On the other hand, when gentlemen fay
this measure s not war (though he believed
the contrary) but authorized by the laws of
nations, the gentleman from North Carolina
came forward with his amendment, and laid,
if this is one of thole things which nations may
do confident with their neutrality, let us make
it general ; for the muntent you take meafiire*
ola holiilt nature againlt one of the belligerent
powers, and not againlt another, it would not
be fuflicient fur us to fay that one of them hat
Committed more depredations upon us than
another, though this would be a good teafon
for going to war, with one nation more than
the other. Mr. G. wished, therefore, if this
was intended as a war measure (and he had no
doubt of its beiag so) that it might be clearly
exprefTed, as then every effectual measure
might be taken for furthering war prepara
tions, and every oppolition vfrould hereafter
cease.
Mr. Hartley said, the opposition made
to this bill was very extraordinary. As to a
declaration of war, he did not think such a
measure could be proper whilst our Commilfi
eners remain in Paris j but for more than.a
week pad he was convinced France would
have war with this country, he therefore wish
ed to go into every measure of defence both
of our commerce and territory. Gentlemen,
notwithdanding, they mud fee that France is
aiming at universal dominion, wish to put off
measures of defence from one period to ano
ther. He thought we ought no longer to he—
sitate, but to go as far as poffihle in the pro
tection of our commerce; for he did not think:
we had any thing to fear from the mighty na~
lion. A body of a few tlioufand men would
secure us in the fouthcrn dates, and we had
nothing to fearin theealtern ornothern (fatey
He hoped, therefore, this amendment would
be negatived, and the bill palled, without
farther ebjeftion.
Mr. Edmond supposed that the minds of
gentlemenwereprettv generally determinedim
this quedion, and he could not therefore hope
to effect any change of opinion in any mem
ber of the committee, yet he hoped he Ihould
be jull.fied, in a question of so much impor
tance, in taking up a little time of the com
mittee, in delivering his lenriments upon it.
He role in opposition to the present amende
nient. It was said, this is either a peace mea
sure, or a war measure. If it is confident with
a (late of peace, it was argued that there could
be no danger in extending it to other Nations
as well as to the French. Heconlidered it as
a peace measure ; but bifore the committee
agree to the proposed amendment, they ought
to conlider the consequences of c'oing so.
lfoneofour merchant velfclj' (houla be
depredated upon by a Uritifli ora Spanifti (hip
of war, it could not be. war, but a breach of
our treaties with these powers which stipulate
that complaint of any injury received, (hall
fird be made, and fatisfaclion demanded, be
fore any act of reprisal) fliall be authorised.
But with respeCt to Frakce, admitting that we
have (he fame treaty vtffli her, how does the
fad dand f With refpecf to Great Britain and
Spain, it is (bpuiated that retlreft (hall in the
tirft place he asked. This had repeatedly been
done wifhrefpeCt to France. We have fre
quently made an application there in the lan
guage of supplication. Do France and Great
Britain, then Hand upon the fame footing*
No; they dand upon diffc/ent ground, and
the fame rule of conduct will not apply ti>
them.
Another idea has been fuggeded, riz. that
the bill should be general, lelt it (hould dii
pleaie France, and impede our Negociation
with that country. If there was the niofl dis
tant hope of an honourable settlement of our
differences with that country, lie fliouid be as
unwilling as any man to (top or impede the
business; but when he reflected upon what
had paired between the two countries front
the commencement of our Independence to
the present time, that hope was lellened, if it
everexifted. When he saw, that inllead of
friend (hip, (he had Ihewn quite a contrary con
duct towards us, he doubted whether that
friendlhip ever e.vilfed. When he found that
on the 9th of May, 1793, (he undertook to
pass a decree to take out of all neutrals veirels
enemy's goods, in violation of her treaty with
us, but that upon remxnilratuig with her, (he
undertook to repeat it on the ajd ; but w'hen
(he had blinded the eyes of our commercial
people by this repeal, die fat down five days
after, and repealed her last decree. When he
saw this he InfpeCled the hatred of France in
dead of its friendlhip. Another application
was made on the fubieCl, and on the id #f J u _
ly, theoffenfive decree is again repealed, this
repeal' contined till the a«th of the 'fame
month, when if was again rescinded.
Try the conduct of France farther, and how
does it appear? When we look at the depre
dations which have been Committed upon our
commerce; when we l*e the manner in which
our veflels had been tal.eti upon pretences of
certain papers being wanting of which our
matters an t owners of velfels were ignorant.
What would luve befii a friendly conduct m
fu*t» cafesi Would it nave !j : et» to take jti-vantage of inadvertence and ignorance * Crr
tair.ly not. Or it" we V.i lite c\m4\ist of
their Minister in this country. He comes to
cultivate harmony { but when we fee him en
deavouring re ra.fe up the peopleagamrt their
Government, it cannot be taken as a friend
ly proceeding.
\lr. ft. wuhedfome gentleman would un
dertake to'!h-w the marks ofthis friendfh'p of
France of which so much had been heard.
What has been done on our part ? After re- i
reiving repeated injuries, we have appointed
Coinnii(li»iiers after CpmmiQSoners to treat
with them. Our reward is known. He did
not vrifh to aggravate the conduct of France ;
but he wished to know how long gentlemen
would be willing to lie,at her foot (tool ? Was
it proper to continue our Negooation with a
power which is the Ocean of all our
vefleis f Suppose our CommiHion;rs are in
Paris, endeavouring to negotiate, how comes
it that the privateers of France are not re-call
ed, instead of being fufterct to mfeft our
coafta ? Rot instead of thi< their disposition is
shewn by their decree of the nth of January,
which determines the character ot veflels by
their cargo.
All thefc afts, Mr. E. said, demonftra'ed
the temper and disposition of that Republic
towards America. He thought it perfectly
idle sot* our Com in ifli oners ro remain at Pans
stating complaints, and writing vindications,
without the least hope of success. What will
the Directory fay to them i They will (ay,
you set tip your claims, but how will you
ertfOrce tlwrm f You cannot get a vote to lay
your luivlupon any of our privateers upon
your co.*(t; you coiue on an idle errand.
Congress have no idea that your country has
any I ich claims; if they believed it, they
w«uld fupporr them." When the French find
its a feeble and ciivied Nation, will they listen
tora moment ro the suppliant and feeble pray
er of our Commt (doners > No; they wtll con
tinue their war upon our commerce, and raise
a tribute upon us when they please, and when
they hate accoiupl.fhed their part with Groat
Britain, they will then treat with us. We
{hall then be called upon to buy a peace upon
ttteur own terms. He acknowledged they had
overpowered many Nations, and made peace
with them, at various prices ; hut the peace
which they aredifpofingof is of French manu
facture; it may be brilliant, but not durable.
He wished rtor to purchase such a peace. He
would, on the contrary, now adopt spirited
measures, and convince France that we -ire
not to be tr fled with any longer. Or, if £en- j
fleinen wifti us o appear so degraded, so re
duced and humbled a Nation, as to be ready j
to receive the boon we can beg from them, j
then it will be right to continue our Applica
tion. But, if that is not their idea; if they
cotfceixe that we have rights founded in jus
tice, which otigh&o beiupported, will they
not beperfuaded that we (hall be more likely
to have them refpiCted, by taking a spirited,
inanly course of conduct, than Uie contrary ?
They certainly mull. '
For hi.ufclfj Mr. E. said, were he sent to
treat with Francea period like the present,
and that Nation were to tell him that one half
his countrymen disavowed the claims which
he set up, if these were any truth for the re
mark, he ihould think he might as well at
tempt to. negoci.ite upon his own authority*
as in behalf of Government. It, said he, we
rlo not mean to lie upon our oars, let us come '
forward and support the claims of our Com
missioners, and tiien there will be (ome proba
bility of rher being fuccefsful. Without
this, our Commillioners will never be able to
acconiplifh any thing, and the French would
continue their depredations upon our trade.
But if we adopt the measure proposed, are we
about to declare war ? Certainly not. If, said j
he, I a-n attacked by an individual, yd resist
iiim, and in doing so, I break or talcs. from
himhis fword,dold*clare waragainft him? No*
common fcnle, and the firt principles of felf*
defence fiy that rhis is right. And will not the
fame reasoning apply to Nations ? He said,
it certainly would. The measure now propo- ;
fed, goes no farther than to-arrefl the sword !
from*he hmd of our enemy, aiul to keep it |
foronr own fec-irity ; until our diTpute is '
fettled. He hoped, therefore, the amendment
would be disagreed ro.
Mr. Lyon could not diicover why gentle
men fbould be opposed to this amendment,
if they did not suppose the bill under conside
ration would amount to a declaration of war.
It was his opinion it would have that effect, I
and therefore he wa> opposed to it. He hoped j
our Negociation in Paris was not yet doled ; |
but if this bill paff'es, his hopes ot peace would !
be at an end. The gentleman last up Ipoke
about the price of peace, he could not fay for
his part what would be the price of peace
hereafter, it the country once got involved in
war. He did not suppose we (hould be able
to beat the French so severely as to bring
them to ourown terms. He was himfelf very
unwillmg to go to war. He believed the peo
ple of the United States are delirous ot pre
serving peace, what had been
irtfinuated to the contrary, from the addresses
which had been sent to the President and to
Congress. We had, (aid he, a million of think
ing people within the United States, and sup.
posing all the addretlTes to be in favour of war
measures (whiph he was tar from believing)
they do not amount to more than 20,000. He
believed there are more persons in this city in
favour of war, than in any other part of the
United States. He was confident there are not
200 people in his diftrift who wish it. Indeed,
he saw nothing to be got for this country by
going to war. He said he (hould vote for this
amendment, because it would rake off a part
of the asperity of the. measure towards Frarce. j
Thequeftion was put and negatived, there I
being only 21 for it.
Mr. Lvon proposed to amend the bill by I
inserting the words M confidently with the laius
of nationsbut his motion did not find a fe
cpnd.
The committee then rose and reported the
bill.
(To be continuedJ
aj- The Committee appointed
by the Merchant' of this City, to procure two
Ships 10 be loaned to the United States, —ire ready
to confer with such of ihr Ship Catp«nteis, Join
er- and Bl&ckfmiths of the City and Suturbs, as
w ;lh to undertake the building ps such Ships.
It "will be onderftood that one of the fbips ii to
be built at the upper, the other, »t the lower end
of the C i:y Applications to be made at the Com
mittee rffice, No. 95, Sou.h Front Street.
The < ommittte meet at 9 o'clock in the toorning
of c**ry day, except Sunday.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Secretary.
ir ne 16 di w
Millenery Room,
1.?6, Maikrt Dreet,
Miss CH R TST AL,
INFORMS her friends, that fha ha» rrceiv.d by
the late arrivals froai Europe, her n!uaf fnpply
of the Tcry latest fafliicnr in MILLENERY, *e
with a great variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HA TS and BONNF.TS, cf the newest I- apes,
which will be opened this day.
f«n« II J0
Xfre <gasctte.
P HIL ADEL PH IA ,
MONDAY" EVENING, Juut 18.
To JOHN ADAMS,
PRFJID: MT o» thi UNITED sr«TES.
»t a,
AS inhabitants of this ancient town,
which gave you birth, though now by its
division, Quiocy is honored, as the place
of your rtfidence, wc rettin that attention
and esteem for your personal honor and hap
piness, which are the natural result of such
a connexion; yet this is 1 circumstance of
very small confidrration, compared with o
ther reasons of at'achment and veneration,
which upon this trying crisis of political
emergencies, we beg leave to offer in the
following addrrfs.
Your promotion, fir, by the merited fuf
fragesof a free people to the chief feat of
government isacircumftance of preeminence
and honor to which despotic and hereditary
princes can never attain. Being thus made
by your country, the centre of their nation
al dignity, confidence and affe&ion, we
glnry in your great and acknowledged abil
ities as a statesman, and in your unabated
zeal, uttfhaken fortitude and perfev. rance as
a patriot; all which qualities have long since
been rendered conspicuous to your fellow,
citizens, and to the world, in yogr political
and eminent ferviccs. We contemn, fir,
as we know you do, the fawning paralite,
the flattering sycophant, as a reproach to
merited honor; a vermin that mars the tree
most, to which its attachment is apparently
the greatest. We (hould not, therefore,
presume to express the just sensibilities of
our hearts in language that would bear the
remotest resemblance to that praile so often
unjuftlv lavilhed upon tyrants, 10 answer
ends as base as their encomiums are falfe,
weve it not to contradict the envenomed
pens and tongues of reproach and slander.
which, with uncontrolled license, have been
attemp ing to tarnish the charafter, with
the honor, probity and firmnefs of which,
are intimately conne6led the political glory,
fafety and happiness of these united, sove
reign and independent dates.
Were you the man, fir, intriguing for 1
Britilh influence, and to yield up the inde
pendent glory of united America to the
nation from whose unconilimtional exaflions
you had the honor of being eminently in
ftr.imental in procuring our deliverance ; or
were y u secretly exerting your abilities to
prevent a compromif- with France, for an
amicable settlement of all real or imaginary
injures of which they complain, as has been
so ofien, so confidently, and, we fear, much
worse than ignorantly announced to the pub
lic, and which many, too many have been
Betrayed to believe,—we (hould now, with
ur.fufferable regret, have to lament in our
firft Magistrate an itiftdnce of apoftacy, un
equalled in the page of civil hiltory. You
will then pardon our erithufiafrn, while in
your letter of credence to the French direc
tory, & the liberal^generous, p/ici:icinftruc
tions to our envoy , we fee the diforganiz
in tr designs of thajectet enemies of our unri
valled profperi'y, as in a moment defeated j
&, in fpight of malignity itfelf, the hontor of
our Executive, and government at large,
eftablifned by evideuce that enfortes con
viftion.
The joyous effeds are every where visi
ble 1 At the return of harmony in Congress,
the heart ol every true friend to America
exults : the people, who in great numbers,
before were alarmingly separated in affe£tion
and confidence from their own government,
and rendered jealous of the firft charafters of
their own eleftion, convinced of the snares
spread for their country by foreign intrigue,
are now crowding to its standard, and c#n
fecrating their furtunes and lives for its de
fence. So signal a Provider e for the de
te&ion of fraud, and the coalition of a peo
ple. divided and confequcntly linking into
inevitable deftruft on, is perhaps a novelty
in the annals of nations.
While solemnly grateful to the all-dif
cening eye of divine benevplence, which has
brought to light those hidden things of
d rknefs by which so many of us have been
so unhappily deceived, we congratu'ate our
country at large that numerous private
friendfhips, which were violated, and other
wise good neighbors and important connec
tion* estranged from one another, are now
returning with mutual exftacy to the fra
ternal embrace. The uninformed and un
reasonably impaficned only, Hand at a for
bidding distance.
Disgusted at the illiberal a> ts and avarice
of thole, with whom our Envoys were ad-
f lifted to converfc, and at the refufal of au
ience by the French Direftoty, after so
friend'y an advance, accompanied with every
mark of refpctlful attention to fa great a
people,—a revolt frnm our over heated af
feft on for such a government,
of being the consequence. Sincere and
ardent was our attachment to the interests
of the French nation, while they stood on
their own defence, and preserved a spirit
limited by the decisions of reason but
when universal empire seems to be adopted
as their objeft, and the darkness of intrigue,
as a favorite measure to accomplish their ne
farious designs, when the price of friendlhip
with America is the prostitution of her
wealth, her honor, her independence, it must
be our duty to reprobate their pride, and
fptirn their insulting demands ; nor can the
genuine sons of America, though friendly
to France, and with their illustrious Execu->
tive, defirons of forming an al iance upon
foundations mutually just and beneficial,
forbear pledging themselves, for the defence
of their invaluable rights, against the un
provoked invasion with which we are threat
ened.
Acquiescing, fir, most cordially in your
public adminillration, wishing you the
guidance of Heaven in rvety duty of your
important and molt difficult llation, and
that th« pen of slander, however artfully
aimed, miy rtrcr penetrate to dittnrb your
inward pcact and tranquility, or difcouragc
your rxefliooJ, ft ill so iecdfi:l, for tlie
profperii v of your country ; we beg lea»e to
fubferibe ourlrtvrs your confirmed friends,
&c.
The Committee in behalf of the town :
F.xra fftld, Solomon Thayer,
Elenner 7 baytr, Daniel Fogg,
Mufti French, J'ifioh Vinton,
Samuel Curtis, Daviil D-
Caleb Hay war J, Nathaniel Wales,
Atherton Thayer, John Ho'brook,
B njamin Hayde n jun. Jfaac Thayer.
To the Inhabitants if the Jotun of Braintree,
in the Jlate of Majfachufetts.
GENTLEMEN,
• THIS kind address from the inhabitant
of a divffi, fl i f that ancient and venerable
toWfi of Braintree, whxh has a! way, been
my home, it very obliging to me.
The torguea and pens of (lander, inftru
irents with which oiir enemiej expe£t to
subdue our country, I flat'er myfclf, have
never made impreffior-s on you, my ancient
w) om I have been so famili
arly known from my infancy. A signal in
trrpofition of Providence has for once de
tailed frauds and calumnies, wh ch, from
the inexeciition of the laws and the indiffer
ence of the people, were too long permitted
to prevail.
I am happy to fee that your minds are
deeply imprell'ed with the danger of the
present situation cf our country, and that
your resolutions to aflert and defend your
rights, are asjudnious and determined, a< I
have always known them to be upon former
occafirns.
I with yon every prosperity and felicity
which you can wifely wish for yotirfelves.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June id, 179^*
To TBl PRESIDENT OF t«i UNITEDST^TES
SIR,
THE ability, re&itude and firmntfs
which have distinguished your administrati
on, and indeed every part of your conduit,
in the various important public stations, af
ligned you by your country, would render
unreceflary any aflurances of support from
U3, inhabitants of the ancient towns of Ply
mouth and Kingston, were it not of conse
quence to remove an imputation industrious
ly circulated, that the people of the United
States are divided from their government,
and henye may fall an easy vi&im to that
" destroying angel of republics" foieign in
fluence and intrigue.'*
•• Enthusiastically attached to the eaufe
of the French," at the commencement of
their revolution, we devoutly wished them
success, in the establishment of a constitu
tion of governm nt, founded on the broad
basis of equalliberry and political happiness ;
but having departed from the system of fe*f
defence, having plundt red, demoralized and
prostrated all the countries subdued by their
arts, or their arms, and even now, with the
fame hostile views are contemplating new
cohquefts ; we cannot but consider them as
the' determined foes of religion, order, and
social security.
Regardkfs alike of the Laws of Nations,
and the faith of treaties, they have in open
defiance of both, wantonly captured and
condemned our peaceable (hips ; robbed and
maltreated our citizens, while pursuing their
lawful bufinefV on the Ocean, and when o
vertures of amicable accommodation are of
fered, instead of retribution, they imperi
ously demand the payment of immense sums
of money as the price of ncgociation, a
compliairce with which would comprpmit
our neuarality.
Indigiities and infultslo outrageous asd
unprovoked, have excited in us such fentf
ments of disgust and rcfentment, as would
have roused into a&ion the independent spi
rit of our venerable ancestors, who braving
every danger, bfgan here a settlement on
" bare creation," which by the wisdom of
their inllitutious, and under the patronage
of Heaven, has extended itfelf, and attnin
ed an height of improvement, with arapidity
unknown in the annals of the world. And
whofejdtfcendants, inheriting their hardi
hood and animated with the
splendor and~ dignity ofjtheir enterprize aid
example, will repel with indignant scorn,
the insolent aggre(lions of all the nations on
the earth.
Happy in the reflexion, tha* n-> measures
compatible with the national honor and fov.
ereignty, have been left uneflayed to avert
the calamities of war, you, Sir, will be pre
pared to meet every event ; and a govern
ment adminillej-ed with so fscred a regard
to the precepts cf political morality, will
command the aid of all virtuous citizens to
the utmost extent of their powers.
Being inhabitants of towns, who derive
their principal means of subsistence from the
fisheries, permit us at this time, to offer the
tribute of acknowledgments, for your in
-1 flexible exertion and pet ft verance, in fecu
ring to the United States, this valuable
branch of commerce.^
£ Signed by 192 inhabitants.]
To the inhabitants of towns of
Plymouth and Kingston.
GENTLEMEN,
This address from the mod ancient settle
ment in New-England, where, in the earlier
part of my 1 fe, I passed so much of my time
and with so much fatisfa&ion, gives me great
pleasure.
I trust we all still wish fuecefs to the
French in the establishment of a conftitntion
of government, founded on the broad basis
of equal laws and political happiness—but
the system for cna&ing and executing equal
laws mult be better understood than ever it
ha 3 been, or all our best wishes will forever
be enfhufiafm and delusion ; and the French
will become enemies of the human race, a
gainst whom all nations w» 1 have to unite.
When immense sums of moacy are de
manded as a price of negociation, a compli
ance would not only compromise our neutra
lity, but debase our minds, corrupt our
fouls and make, our own government in a
few years as profligate as theirs. It would
be the beginning of an habit in the minds
of our government and peoole of fnbmiflion
to injustice, insolence anddifgrace—lt would
lay a foundation for employing our own mo
ney in corrupting our own ele&ions. This
very money would be employed in hiring ve
nal writers and printers of scandal again ft
virtue, and panegyric upon vice. It would !
.but I mnft forbear—-inhabitants of the old
colony of Plymouth cannot beir such indig*
I nities. Their yenerable*anceftors who bra
j ved every danger, and began a settlement on
bare c cation would not only have felt dif*
gust and resentment, but would have put
their very exiltenee, and that of the great
work of plantation, they had so much at
heatt, at hazard, rather than hav? submitted
to any thirk like it.
May your Fisheries, to which nature, u
sage, law and compa& have givm you a
rfglit, be forever preserved to your posterity
and prospered with that success which in
dustry and enterprize like yours will always
merit. JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 8, 1798.
The Governor of Maftachufetts, in his late address
to the leg flaiurcot ih'at Uate, fays,
M The events ol the day draw our attention
from the more local concerns ol the Commonwealth,
to contemplate ihnfeof our nation at large.
•« The fuua i >n of our foreign relations, you ate
not ir.fei-fible ht>s bee nne critics I an-i alarming, and
calls for the united wisdom, decision and firmnefs of
the American government ; and for the unequivocal
aid and afliftance of t-a h member ol the Union. We
were led to slater • uifeUes, si at the system of im
partial neutrality ?d opted by the exceptive, and which
we have ft'Uggled so Itng *0 m. intatn, would have
fhel'ered us trom fhfecalamities incident to a state of
war.—When the troubles of Europe commenctd, the
United States were at peace with the world, and
happy in the rrfleftion that no obligation compelled
them to intermeddle in their contcUs ; but had every
inducement to avoid it: having wifely adtvved this
system, our government end tvored 10 avoid every
just cause of complaint, and when injuftifiable dep e
datioos were committed on our commerce by one of
the belligerent powers, a treaty opened a way for re
mo" ing just grounds of un<afinefs by adjusting mutu
al demands. Thns a cent ft with that power which
then threa encd t?i, was happily prevented and peace
and haimony reftorad : *hen similar caules of com
plaint and uneasiness with another of those powers
cxifted, the Prtfidcnt ol the United vStates, anxious |
to p-eferve the good understanding which has so long
subsisted between the French and .American republics,
fu'fued similar measures, lor the reftoraiionof amity
and friendlhip between them. These overtures, af
ter a contemptuous rtje&ion in the firft in fiance, from
an extreme aefire to remove every reafonahle ground
of complaint, were renewed ; and with what lucce's,
let the communications from the envoys to our exec
utive declare! Could they have been furnifoed with
powers more ample, or have addrefTcd the govern
ment of France in language more refpe&ful, pathetic
or com iliating ? They aflure that government of 44 the
deep regret which the President of the United States
feels m the loss or fufpeniion of the harmony and
friendly intercourse which had (übOfted between the
republics, and of his fircerc desire to restore them ;
to discuss candidly the complaints of France, and to
offtr frankly those of the United States; that he had
anthorifed a review of existing treaties, and such al
terations thereof, as (hallconfift wirh the mutual in
terest and fatisfafiion of the contrasting parties
At the fame time warmly expressing the happiness
they should feel, if their exertions could in any de
gree contribute to restore that friendlhip and mutual
interchange of good offices, wbich is alike their wish
and their duty to eft\tt between the citizens of the
two republics t" but instead of liftcningto those ref
pefiful, conciliatory overtures, our envoys have been
treated with a marked contempt,heretofore unknown
among civilized nations, and exorbitant sums of mo
ney demanded—on what prete«»ce I know not, unlefa
it be to compeniatc the citizens of France for the
trouble they have been put to, in capturing and con
demning our property.
44 The calamities of war, we sincerely deprecate,
but are fully fatisfud that eVery effort has been made,
ftiort of national difoonor and degradation, to pre
vent them. The United States, contented with the
station which Heaven has been pleased to aflignthem,
have noreafonable wilh for aggrandizement, nojdefire
of conquest or extension of territory ; but are only
foiicitous for peace and that security to their proper
ty and independence, which the God of nature hath
given them a light to claim and enjoy : And while
the cars and hearts of the citizens of these states will
always be open to every reasonable proportion for
accommodation. I believe I am rot mistaken in fay
ing, they are determined never to submit to plans of
coeicion : for they well know that a people united in
a just cause, and roused by injuries and indignities to
resentment, cannot be easily conquered. Notwith
ftandmg individual citizens may have entertained dif
ferent opinioos, as to the motives and conleguenccs
of the wars and revolutions in Europe, yet I am con
fident, they will not disagree in one point; 1 mean
the nect fluyof union among ourfelvei, in order f|ic
ceWully to defend our liberties and independence
These incltimable bit flings have been tranl'miited to
us in#ire, by the virtuous struggles of our fathers,
who despised every danger, and encountered every
difficulty in their just defence; and (hould we resign
them to any nation on earth, wuhout ** one manly
struggle," should we not be considered as unfaithful
gnardiansof the facrrd trust ? Rather let us endea
vor honorably to discharge the debt by united efforts
to transmit the fair inheritance undiminifhed to pof-
I tCrity *
44 In such a contest all nations will do as the justice
to believe, that nothing hath been omitted on our
j?art, to prevent the evils and dtftrefles of war—and
that it a sincere desire to maintain the rights of neu
j trality, and to keep up a friendly interco-irfe with all
nations—if exemplary moderation aud forbearance,
under accumulated injuries—if the candid and liberal
declaration of the executive, that " it we have com
mitted errors, we willreftify them,"—if the moll
sincere and reiterated attempts at friendly negociation,
and even a predilection for the French nation, whom
we have been wont to regard with the mod (incete
friend (hip •, could have shielded the United States
from depredations and war, our tranquility would
not have been interrupted :—And thai, tf mercena
ry, exorbitant demands of money lor the privilege of
being heard, joined to the most pointed contempt of
our envoys and nation, aggravated by continual hos
tility on our commerce, can afford ground f-r the
claim of the rigUf ot defence against further ou rages,,
that this rioht of die United >taieswill remain unJif
pu ed May we not therefore, if driven to defence,
with huinb>c confidence, look up to the supreme
44 arbiter of nations,"for kis protection and blefling,
by granting fuccels to our exert ions against those* who
without any just cau'e alledged, seem to be dilpofed
to compel the United States 10 withdrawtheir friend
lhip and become their enemy . Do not thefatts be
fore ihe public, juftify the observation, that to fepa
iate the people Irom their government is a measure
unremittingly pursued, thereby destroying the ener
gy of government, and turning the force of a nation
a ainft ufelf What then is the duty of a private cit
izen ? It it not to exert his utmost ability to counter
act so dangerous, so fatal a policy ? What more cfpe
cia ly is the duty ol all our constituted authorities and
Inch ot our fellow-citizens as have officially bound
themfclves by the most solemn of all obligations, to
lupport the conftitutionof the United States?
44 in this unhappy exigency of affairs, I recom
mend to your immediate confederation, tke oecef
fary means «f defence, within this Commonwealth,
that they may be used with effect, whenever it
(hall b« considered necessary by the government ot j
the United States ; particularly the important for- j
tification on Castle lfland ; this fortrefs, f« essen
tial to the defence of the harbor and town of Bos
ton, in cafe of aflault or invasion, requires much
labor, and fonte expense, to give it that «ffe& in
repelling an enemy, which its very advantageous
situation would command. Some improvements
have been made, and with but little coll to tie
Commonwealth ; but to render it capable of inter
nal defence, it it neceflary a small work for fccuri
tv aeaird small arm*, ibould be conftrvded in the
centre of the place; this might be done with great
ease, and at small eipenfe, by employing the con
*i&» on the island in that ff rrire.
" I ha»e the fatitfa&ion to annonnct to you,
that the militia cf this Qate (with the except ion .i
a few corps) ii in very g.od order, and capable
of performing such fer»icea at th« exigencies of the
tinae« may poflibly require ;—if, however, any
thing can be done to make it mora efficient, I
(hall be hippy to concur with you in the measure.
" I will detain you longer, than to fagged
to your conGd ration the expediency of providing
a few heavy Brafi Field Piecei, to te diftrihuted •
upoo the feacoada would be highly ufeful
in cafe of aflault and deprcdatice fromfingle Ihipt,
ai they might be cafily transported from place to
place, as occasion may require.—Whilswe indulge
the hope that the French republic may yet alter
its meafares refpe&ing, the United States, and
render these precautionary steps unnecessary : yat,
I apprehend a sense of onr,duty and interest will
not fuller us to remain unprepared for the disagree
able events, which so flrongly threaten the peace of
the United States.
" In every measure, which fliall have for its ob
jeA the fefurity, peace anu prosperity of the peo
ple of this commonwealth I (hall be happy in af
fordirg my most hearty concurrence,"
WASHINGTON LOTTERY No. IL
Lift of Blanks and Prints
173 d Day's Drawing—February 26.
No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. As. Dolls
767 11645 x 15968 41705-X
1715 x 98a 18178 * 4265 a x
•355 11119 10 950 x 738
387 x 1.19:0 x J1064 x 96;
834 146 c! x 134 4J084
3141 16711 x 440 717
619 x 17«94 x 31514 44398
6(6 i.16 33V*9 461 x
781 597 186 x 701
4377 1903* 319 817 x
93» >Ol 610 45151
943 113 x 877 696 x
5517 x 10401 34069 46060 ,
624 11514 x 485 399
8 7 x 623 x 821 911 x
6319 x 710 36418 47182
7>44 x 11073 x 717 5?4
8589 158 749 948 x
835 x 851 977 48443 x
976 • 971 37184 603
917° *3443 38186 721
1C495 x 14196 39543 815
874 - 303 565 49 i0 5
11146 x 958 x 40189 330
143 15191 4i"9 786
174 th Day's Diawing—March 3.
N». Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls
374 11119 14031 36181
69* 3'7 341 x
847 419 3,58 x 383
964 12440 15M9 37590
987 653 118 38906 x
1008 13051 187 x 39831
833 * 34' x 384 933
1567 578 603 x 40154 x
715 x 929 716 x 134 r
755 14C»3 x 16334 x 313
856 146 x 716 50 655 x
948 350 x 856 41421 x
3116 x 636 17659 743
4156 677 841 41581
488 x 15061 28497 43174 x
36* * 109 560 x 156 15
5<45 367 19439 x 667 x
186 380 900 764
230 695 30147 44m
6137 16407 x 500 371 X
449 461 <l3 705
7C98 899 9a I X 848 X
439 18308 31386 45C41
756 x 361 424 x 131
923 505 x 619 897
' 941 19119 x 675 x 46133
951 x 481 x 694 5'4
990 x 680 50 961 607
8211 10019 31010 757 x
650 x 561 263 47361 X
919 x -11128 x 383 48031 x
9240 x 380 33367 x 547
785 11220 474 834
963 588 480 x 49164 x
"373 23464 787 473
56r 801 34053 887 x
670 826 781 x
688 100 964 35859
LANDING,
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, Jame> Yardfley, mailer, from
Port au Prince,
.SSS""' - } <*»-
FOR SALE BY
Thomas & John Ketlani.
WHO HAVI ALSO ON HAND,.
Ironmongery and Cutlery in packages
Gun* afTorted in cases
Queen's ware in crates
Claret in hhds and cases
Port wine of a superior quality i* pipes, hhdsi
and q*iarter caflcs
New-York and Boston Beef, &c.
June 16 §
This Day is ~~
By THOMAS DOBSON, No. 41 South
Secor.d-ftreet, (price cents.)
THE COM P LITE
Soldier's Pocket Companion j
O R,
A PL4IN AND EASY METHOD OF
MILITARY DISCIPLINE.
CONTAINING,
The new f/ftem of manual and platoon exer
ci/e, noM* prafliled in the army of Great-Britain
together with filing, grounding, advancing,
handling, casing and reversing of arms, with
field mancevrcs, camp and garrison duty.
To ivbicb are added,
Forms reports, monthly rcturnv,
recruiting returns, mutter rolls, returns of arms,
accoutrements, cloathing, &c. With a roll of
country, age, size and fcrvitude.—/tLSO, The
field piece and great gun exercise, with some
cxtra&s and observations from Baron Steuben's
publication.
By Jobit Campbell,
Late Adjutant in the BrinJlj Reg't of Font.
jnne 16 jut
TO BE LET,
Andprtjftjjson given immediately t
THAT WELL KNOWN TAVERN HOUSE,
No. 333, in Front-street,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the sign of the
Ewe and Lamb.
Inquire # t No. 91, North Sixth ftrset.
j""* '5 S
Brown Stout./
50 calks BROWN STOUT, of 6 and 7 dox. eacfc,
Jult received per capt Joyce, and for sale by
Benjamin IV. Morris.
LIKEWISE,
200 easts CI.ARtT, of the very firft quality.'
june 9. mwjhtTOR THE C.AZlril Of THE UNITED STATES.
Poetic Epistle. k .
Addrejjed to the LaDIES tf Philadelphia.
Sweet as the perfumed brcththit floats ado wn
The plaint of Arahy the hleft, the voic«
Of Anna stole nn my e-raptur'd sense,
When to her hero thus (he bade adieu —,
M Farewell my So.dicr, fimce your country cal'«,
u Obey her sacred vo*e, my heart difdaini,
V Tojown a thought might check your valor's
cvurfe.
" And, as a tokm *f my part eftecm,
" Accept this ribband interweav'd wi'.h breath
'* Of warmed wishes for your beil success.
«« For my fake wear it f and.on danger's ver££
'* Remember Anna, nor disgrace her love."
So Anna spoke, and in her hero's heart
Breath'd animating warmth; hekifs'd her hand
An 1 rnftiM impatient to rejoin his ranks.
So all (houlu speak whose 1 ively bosoms glow
With patriotic ardor, so fhouh! a<s
Ea« h matron, virgin, andeaih bride, to whom
A son, a brother, Qr a hufhand's dear.
For now n* common cause demands our arms ;
'Tis not a contest for a partial right
To natipate a flream, or o'er the broad
bofom to convey our wealth
In law giv'n fatety to a foreign fhor$ —
Tis to prote«sl wha'e'er moil de*r we hold
Of natural right ; 'tis to dec de if Hilt
Heiigion, honor, virtue thill erj y
Their sole afylurn from thevcnerjl wreck ..!
Of moral duties, or he bar.ifh'd hence,
And t?ltf their flight forever ftom the worl I.
'Tis t * deeide if itill Columbia's fair,
Fnr famed for virtue, ?nd the due regard
Of Hymeneal res, fhail flill remahi
Kever d and honor'd by the of men
A nd cherifh'd by their God ; or, loos'd the bonds
Of fccicl rompai), shall become the prey
Of helliGi doctrine* to enflav* the foul
And baflle efforts for e f ernal bliss :
'Tit to decide if still our children, nurs'.l j
In %*verenae cf their God, and filial ties • j
Of love and gratitude, (hall nobly prove
Their mother's bleflinp, and their pride;
Or, f au^h;religion's halfow'.d laws to ft or n
And break each filial duty, sac ifice
On htandftain'd altar 9 to an idol rais'd
Their mother's honor and their father's life -
'Tis now, ye fair, vourgJon task, i'exert
"Your never fa.ling influence to grare
And fan that glowing'a dor which pervades [
And animates our orave Columbian youth j
He yon the vcilals of this sacred fire : -* j
Mark how the flame extends its glowing warmth j
Not cities only Hri/hten with its blaze,
The diflant fields re echo with the songs
Of Liberty refolv'd ; the rude alarm
Of threaren'd tyranny, has like the (hock
Of Hidden earthquakes reach'd the deep recess-
Of inmost foreO#, and acoas'd at once
T he general foul, to wa{ch the general good.
Stung bv the arrow of insulting scorn,
E'en they, whose early vigor g-iin'd for us
The blessings we enjoy, whom reverend age
Exempts from rails to arras disdain to reft
Xj3a<slivein the cause ; nor yet content
To lend,their fortunes to their country's weal
Ajain embrace their trusty Red to guard
What erst rheir wisdom and their valor won.
E'en children as by favoring heaven infpir'd
With dread iaftin&ive of a foe to whom
Their cries would plead in vain, their feeble
strength
In fancied ranks of eamefl war unite—
And /hall alone the female voice be damb ?
The fem le hind ina&ive in a cause
Which all their dearest incerffts involves ?
Shall not that bosom which in pe. ee partakes
*• rtur every joy, and leflrns every care
Partake our pWy in the florms of war ?
Or fhafl that breath whose all enliv'ning-charm"
Can rcufe a coward's foul to daring deeds
Of f IfiJh enterprise, when virtue calls
"Refufe its incense to h«f Kallow'd canfit ?
Ofthofe fair hands whose lavilh'd bounty aids
The c urfe < f mA*it in its humbler walks
Refufe a tribute to the soldier's worth,
Nor with one standard grace his honor'd ranks ?
No, never shall th' hifioric pajte record
That when Columbia's sons rose all at once
One mind, one heaft, one only foul, to guard
Their virtue, honor and religious rites.
Her daughters tamely saw the gallant bands
Arm'd for their sure defenfe, ungrae'd with
ought
To prove their fouls partook the general cause.
Fain would J urge each female heart to search
For bright examples iir the honor'd race
Of Roman virgins, but Columbia's fair
Difda'n to imitate, 't ; s theirs to give
To 'ateft apes an exalted mark
Of inbo.m virtue fprur.g from native worth.
This rou will do, ivill do ! perhaps e'en now
J vrong your generous hearts to think unpaid
Orunp-epar'd a tribute fodeferv'd.
Rethinks already in the social tent
I hear the gl» rious ftrife who best shall guard
The g'ft of beauty's hand, already, hark !
Atfiidft the rage of doubtfbl battle found
The hero's voice, ° Come m ye gallant youths
" Oar R utdard's threatened, 'twas the generous
gift
" Of female virtue, arm your manly hearts
" With tenfold force, and snatch it from the
foe."
Already beams'the eye of noble pride
A s o'er the token of her pure efl©em
Which Anna gave, the conquering youth ob
. (eaves
** Yes, I have fought, by you infpir'd I help'd
" Tognin the war, nor hatredifgr>c'd your love
t( Blefs'd be the breath that warm'd my feeling
heart
" And blefs'd the hand that made the hailow'd
gift."
N£W YORK, June 15.
We are informed that government has ic
Vi contemplation to purchase the America, a
very fine ship» belonging to Salem. She is
to mount twenty-eight nine-pounders, and to 1
be commanded by Captain R. V. Morris. <
HARRISBURG, Ju*e 6th. 1
Lad Friday crofTcd the Sufquthannah near <
this totfn on their way to the President of \ I
the United States,63 Indian and 7 Squaws' ! ]
having in heir cullody a white man p ifonet
(charged with having murdered one of their (
chiefs) whom they mean to demand of the j 1
Prefider.t, in <Tder to facrifice according to i
their custom, and agreeable to the treaty. 1
It is f;iid, these are the principal Indians who I
fougltf at St. Clair's defeat. j
NORFOLK, June 7. j
Die Uniftd States frigate Confteflation is j 1
momently expe&ed in Hampton Roads— |
M'e underhand she has got her complement ; \
of men.-—Lieut. Cowper, raised upwards of (
120 iine fellows in this town, in the co'urfe \
or a few days. t
ALEXANDRE \, Junc» 9
Ihe recruiting buftntfsfir the purpefe
? of mint, ng the Fr'g^!-.Courts Suun,now 17-
• ing in pMtuxent* has gone on here with
•Treat spirit for some days Alexandria can
boa.'t of fendi g fifty of her hardy Sons to
. ' protest the en nmerce of our country, and
revenge the insults off" red o onr flag. May
a their exertions in her defence be always fuc
cef»ful—and may they nover re urn to the
bosom of their country, w un il crowned with
the bright reward —VICTORY.
1 ,
( FRANKFORT, (Kentucky) May 8.
We unJei Hand thnt a short timt liner,
1 there «ra» a woman killed by a Panther, ne*i
i the Blue Licks.
On Thursday last Catharine London was
executed in this place, in conformity to the
fente ce paflfcd on her S- the Ditlrict court,
I for he murder of her husband.
On the fame day we are informed there
was a moil violent hail llorm on Salt river
The hail Hones are some ol thfm said to mea
' sure between nineand ten inchcsround. Th;
Itorm continued about ten minutes. Since
which the weather has been remarkable ccol.
On Sunday there »asa smart froft.
On Fi 'day lad, the following melancholy
accident happened about ninem lei from here
| Glen's cr ek. in Woodford counti : A
i young Mr. Wood was going to try f >me gun
piwder, by flalhing it ; but fifll (cbKrving
there was no pawder in ihe pan) fsapped the
gun to fee if it would make fire,when it (be
ing loaded unknown to him) wen i ff, an'd
unfortunately Ihct his lifter through he body.
But though the hadeveiy appearance,
from the part in which it was, f being mor
tal, yet we a e informed by Dr. Scott who
attends her, that (he is life-.ly to ree' ver.
j The neceflily of m-king a y obfcrvations on
the dangtr to which maiki'd are exposed
from iyn rarce or careitflnefs n handling
guc.s, is fuperctded by the fiequent occur
rence of Qrr-ilar accidents.
CINCINNATI. May 5.
Spunjh pojli given up.
By a gentleman who arrived here lad even.
| ing fiom Natchez, we have the fatisfaftion
' to inform our readers, that the po[l< wtre
j c-rtaiitlv gi en up the fir!l of April—Our in
formant heard the gun fire w en tlie Amti
cans entred the fort— the Spaniards evacua
ted it in the night, the next morning they sent
the keks to capt. Gion.—The polls at the
Walnut hills are »iso given up.
Our informant saw Mr. Ellicott the last of
March, who infirm d him, that he had got
all his things packed up and would ; roceed
to run the line the b ginning of April*
A let er from Natchez oftlie 24 hof March
fays, " Capt. Popr returned a few days fmce
from the Chaflaw nation—all was well in that
quarter, although the Spanish governrent
are making use of every method -to poison
their minds."
SAVANNAH, May 29.
The brig Boston Packet, of this port, J.
Morgan, mafler, on her paflage to Jamaica,
was attacked by two Brigand beats, which
(he with difficulty beat off, after a severe en
gagement.
On the jizi of April, Ihe put into Cape
Nichola Mole, from whence (he proceeded
under convoy to her port ofdeftr ation. The
Boston Packet the.firft armed in
this port after the comu.unica
tion.
Ry a gentleman from Louisville, we are
informed, that.the eonvention have altered
the mode of voting at tleflions in future,
rom ballot to viva voce.
Volunteer Rifle Company.
THE cit'zens of Philadelphia and and Liberties
who arc disposed to join said company, in support
of the liberties and independence of their country,
are informed that n meeting will He held at the
hbufe of Mr. Lewis Young, the sign of General
South Sixth street," on Tuefdaycven
ing next, at 7 o'clock, where ahlebodie
men are invited to appear and enroll their names
J rticlfs of afTociation may he fern by applying to
John Haines, No. 132, High-street ; John Cnyle,
N°- 3°3» f a street ; Obadish Stockton, c6rner
of Ninth and said P.reet ; David Simmons, No.
la, South Fifth-ftreet ; and Abram Stines, Third,
near Race street,
The different Printers in the Citv are re
nuefted to insert to-morrow only,
june 18.
Light Infantry.
AN adjourned meeting of thofc gentlemen who ]
met ai Mr. Yohe's tavern (Whi e Swaun,Race street)
on the 161 h nit. will be hcid on Saturday next, at the
fame place,at half 7 o'clock, p. M. Tho'e who
may wish to join this corps, which is intended in
conformity to the !awsof*Pennfylvania, to Reattach
ed to or.e of the Philadelphia Regiments of Militia,
are requeued to be punts ual in their attendance.
A committee will set at the above place every
eveningthis week from half part 7 olclock till 9 for
' the purpose ol receiving applications. June 184
Artillerists ! Attention !
THE 6th Company of the Regiment of
Philadrlphia Artillery, being a part of the
80,000 militia, ordered by the President of
the United St >tes, " to be in readiness to .
march at a moment't warning,"— it is ex- F
pedled, as the members have been duly no- '
tified, that they will, at this important and !
eventful crisis, evince a laudable ambition to ,
appear and aa as citizen S.)ld : ers, in. defence f
of our Liberties and Independence, a? fe- p
cured by the Fedtral and State Conftitu- f
tinns and Government, un'dtt favor of divine 11
Providence. n
The free, independent Citizens of Phila-
delphia, Soutlnvark and the Northern Libe- ,
ties, are invited to join the said Company,
upon the terms of appealing in complete
uniform, agreeably to the\rights and privi
leges secured to the " Vokirteer Corps of
Artillery," by the I ith fe£Uo*> of an of
Congress, pafled the Bth of May, 1792, tl
and the 3d feflion of khe present militia P
law of this (late.
N. B. An £lc£lion for a Second Lieut. „
will be held at Capt. Handel's, in Race- C
street, next Monday afternoon, at 7 o'clock,
where the punftual attendance of the mem
bers is expefted.
JOHN WOODSIDE, Captain. r
June 14. il
I Xfrc &wtte.
d PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JV** 18. i
jj ———««a£S£S2? n *" '
In the beginning of lal week arrived in this ci- .
ty, Mr. K-.t '«r fiom P*ri*, with <Jifpat«.he« from
the French ilireAory to Denjamin Franklin Uache,
Winter of tie Aurora, under the fcal of Mr. Tal- '
'» lr jrard, which Mr. K?edcr puuelually delivered
II He brought alio a letter from Mr. 7'allyrand, un
der seal to a gentleman at New-„Vork, which he ,
[3 also delivered at that city. The (Lite paper printed
iii the Vurora ou Saturday last, being Mr Tallcy
e r md*» l-tter to our envoys, was a part ot thefc
» dispatches, a:)d w hat the rcfiJus are has not yet <
transpired, (
e c
On Thursday last the Executive received 1 t
i- ; a letter from our Envoys at Paris, dated in ' (
* I April, which was accompanied with Mr. i t
e Talleyrand'* letter to them and their reply, \ (
I. which are very voluminous, and were this <
day communicated to Congrefa by the Pre- ,
j lider.t. ♦ t
Y j COMMUSICATtOtt. ,
c j We a-e aflui from the »<elt authority, that r
' Dotftor Logan (a noted an violent democrat)
n departed ! rom th<9 i it'\ on VVedncftlay or '['hurl- '
r day lad," in the fhi"p Iris, for Himhurgh, on his
» ! route to Paris. There cannot he Ihe leaf) quel- (
c ti«»n but the Dostnr, from his inordinate love of j
- French liberty, and hatred to the fucred conjlhu- t
d tion of tne United States, has gor eto the Fr *r.ch ;
. directory, fraught with intelligence of the mojg ! '
, dangerous tendency to this country. The ftcrety
/ ot hi* intention £for his very linen uas nude up c
rut ef libs own houfej apt! his visit by daybreak *
on the day of his departu "e to Le Tomb, the
* * late Frem h conliil, announce that* hi* abandon* <
n n»ent of wife, children, relatives and coiXntry, i
i is of afptci'esof coufpiraev, molt fatalro 'fietr j
f'om, and abhorrent to humanity. For can any «
f f :bl e man h?fitate to fufpes, t th.-t hi? infernal
delign can be anything lef», than the '
ti nof a trench arrtiy, to ieacb us the genuine 1
•value of true- iff efft ntial liberty by re- rganizitig i
our government, through the blefled op- ration J
of the b yrnct and guillorme. Let .every Ame- ;
- rican no vv gird on his sword. The times are
:i not only critical, but the secret of thcjimto is *
e out. Their d mag j>ue is gone to the rectory, (
. purpofea dejtfaftiz.' oj your lives, property, '
, liberty and holy religion. \
■ i
t ' CONGRESS. t
e On Saturday, the House of Representatives
of the Uni ted States went into a committee of
the whole on the bill for the prevention tnd
* ; restraint of dangerous and seditious persons ; ;
t ; Mr. Galkati.n moved to ftnkeoutthe firli
1 ; feci ion of the bill, on the ground of its being
j unconstitutional, the.regulation of this fub
j : jett having been left with the states govern- [
, ments. The firft fedlion was in the following
' words :
L " Ijhatany alien resident, orwho Hi all come *
; to rsfi.de within the United States, who hatll,
i or fhaJl have been convicted of any felony, or
other infamous crime, or whofliall be nototi
oufly a fugitive from justice, upon any charge
of treasonable or seditious practices, in any fo
reign state or country, or whose continuance
within the United States shall be, in the opini
on of the President of the United States, inju
i rious to the public peace and fafety, may be
deemed and adjudged a dangerous person,
and may be feqttired to depart, and may be
apprehended 1 "and removed,therefrom in the a
manner hereiiiafter prescribed." a
This, motion produced a debate whjch con- f
tinued during; the fitting, and no qtieftion be- t
ing taiken, the committee had leave to fit a- 7
gain. .
Ihe bill supplementary to, and to amend
the autfi6rizing the President of the Uni
ted States to rai(e a provisional army, was a
read the third time, and pad'ed by yeas aud v
nays as-follows : f
YEAS. v
Me(Trs. Allen, Melfrs.Hiudman, j
Bartlett, Hofmer,
Bayard, Imlay,
Brooks, Kittera, 0
Bullock, S. Lyman, a
Champlin, Otis, a
Chapman, I. Parker, a;
Cochran, Reed,
Coit, Rutledge,
Craik, Schureinan, c
Dana,' Sewall,
Dent, Shepard, ft
Edmond, S» r grcaves, ci
A. Foster, JN. Smit4i, 3
D. Foster, S. Smith, ?l
J. Freeman, Sorigg,
Olen, 1 hatcher,
Goodrich, Tliomfon, ' r
Gordon, '
Grifivold, s Vjti Alen, ol
Harper, Wadfworth, q,
NAYS 2 " 91
Messrs. Baldwin, Meflra. Uo'mtj,
Benron, Jones, '°
Blount, Locke, <' c
JSurgeli, Mjcun, vc
T. Claiborne, M'Ctenachan, be
W. Claiborne, M'Dowell, x
Clopton, Miliedge,
Daw Ton, New,
Fowler, W. Smith, m '
Gallatin, Slasford,
Gregg, Sumter, co
Hanna, A. Tricg, pe
Harrifon, J. Trig,:, of
Havens, VarnUm, Jyf
lieilter, R. VVilliam«. an
Mr. Harrison to call up the re- i
port of the committee made the other day on i ' )e
tlie subject of adjournment, with a view of i f"'
fixing a day for the adjournment of both I
houles j but Mr. Sitc.rea ves observing that t] )(
as it was likely Conj;rels would have laid be- 1 f
fore them on Monday or Tuesday the dif- j r<f
patches lately received frorn our Envoys at ou
Paris, it would be better to let that lubjeit lie j e
until that time, as it was probable that gentle- j ma
men would be better able tu form an opinion ! Go
asto the proper time of adjournment, when i s ac
they (hall be made acquainted with their con
tents, than at prelent —Agreed.
art
•' Haste to where honor calls, and rnbly try a PI
"To curb the licentious Foe, or bravely die." wi 1
First Light Infantry. 0,11
THOSK Youn • Men who arc inclined to enrol
thcmletves in a Volunteer Company in the sup
port of government and defence of their country, fti»
are hereby invited to step forward, and join rh« the
Li«bt Infortry Corps, attached to ihe Firtt Rcgt- a ]{V
tnent of the C ty Militia, commanded by Lieut.
Colouel Franc;® Gurney. P OT
-v E. H.OBINSON, Capt.
June 18. I cr
N. B. Applications will be received ot Lieut, cor
David Irvine's, No. 6, Dcck-lb eet, where the r, ur
ruhs and tcgulationi of the company may Lc seen
if required*
I 1
ertics of Philadelphia above the age tf forty-
Jive.
C ENTLFMES, ' *' %
FROM the Difpatchrs of if(c Envoy® of
the Unitrd States at Paris, we have reason
to conchide that the only alternative which
now prefects to us is fubtniffloH or defence.
In fucli a situation, it is impoflible that m<rn
Cl a filiated by a fpi~»t of liberty and a regard
:he, tbe indepcudctice of tbeir country fliouKl i
'al- hesitate about the choice they ought to
•id. make.
"he tfle c '" nlfler of nation with
;Ci j whom we have reason to expeA war, the
cy . wh»le strength of the Union will be necef
icfc fary affi i 1 oijrfdves ptoteftionand fecurc
yet our invaluable rights. Laying aside all form
er enimouties, where such have previously
exifled, it is become a djty to cultivate
rc _ j union and harmony, aud that every indivi
; Hnal so conduft litmfelf as if he conceived
J r - ■ the whole event of the fronted depended up
'y> | on his exertiom.
nl3 Matiy Wafon. evince the propriety of a
re * military afTociatiori amorg tbofe whom the
the law exempts from the performance of
militia duty. Being generally heads of fa
jt J j milies, and having the earnings oflheir li-es
,H. at hazard, th(,y are deeply tutertfted in the
his f cCl, rity of property and in preserving the
el - country free from foreign yoke Less ra
■of pable of the fatigues of a camp than at an
/«- earlier period of life, they yet retain (Irength
. and inclination to defend theirliomej agaioft
all rntl are impelled to the dif
„p charge of this duty by every consideration
. a k 'hat can excite the sensibility of man—
the These rtflefllons have induced a number of
:>K- citizens to prepare the proposals now hand-
T, ing round in the f.-.vral wards ->f the "city.
"* to yo" f° r fubfcript'on. Committees have
)la j been chofeu to circulate this engagement to
uc- freemen r.f each ward above the age t»f
iine■ 45> and by this example and advice to pro
ng cure the fignaturrs of ihofe who are wil
on ' ,n 5 t0 fubferibe this ''iTocia!ion, which it
ne " is conceived honor interest unite in re
.* commending. The committees, are also re
rV, qutAed to report the r proceedings to the"
it, meeting of tfe citizens to be held at I>:n
woody's taVern in Market-street at 7 o'clock
in the evening of Wednesday the 27th of
the present month,
'es / One of the Committee.
of Philadelphia, Jnne 16' A, 1798,
nd The printers of the city are requeued to
rlt '" ftrt thcabove in t,tleir refpeftive uewf-pa
"K PerS>
n- [The State of Maflachufetts whose energy and
„g strength were so abundantly manifefled in our
revolutionary war have evinced bythefollow
„e • ing address their perfefl sensibility on the pre
-11, ftnt dangers which threaten the independence
or of the United States and their perfea readi
tj. ness with promptitude to repel them. J
ge
o- ADDRESS
" Of tU Legi/lature of Majachufetlt
Tothe President of the United Sates.
be ■Si'k,
be THE Legidature of Massachusetts, evtr
he anxious and long habituated to take an early
and decided part, in whatever relates to the
n- fafe' y and welfare of their country, beg leave
e- to join the United voice of your fcllow-citi
a" zeng, in offering you a testimony 6f their
refpeA and confidence.
Asa native citizen of this commonwealth,
3S and as the supreme Executive of the go.
,(1 vernment of our deliberate choicv, we feel
for yo« tho e sentiments «f attachment and
veneration which the recolleflion of your
long, diftmguiffied and fuccelsful f.rvices
is calculated to excite ; and if the measures
of a wife and virtuous administration, such
as-we believe yours to have been, can re
ceive aid cr famfticn from our molt decided
and unequivocal approbation, cur duty in
exprefiing it will be discharged with in
crtafed fatisfaflion.
It is with a mixture of indigration and
regret, that we learn the Hate of our nego
ciations with th? French Republic. From
a careful reviewof our relations with France,
and of the unremitting eff.rts of the national
government, to preferve'and perpetuate her
triendlhip, we might readily have believed
• that there could be no crisis in the progress
of her poli:ical career, in which her tran
quility could have been diflurbed. But
ainid It the collision of parties, France has
loft the objeft of her revolution. She once
fought for liberty ; (he now contends for
dominion ; and, having declared by the
voice of her Executive, that " Hie ought to
i, become the model and arbiter of na«
tions, has violated th- rights of every
neutral people, and proflrated the govern
ments sf most of the republics in Europe.
Should any further attempt, eithrr to '
controul the government, or subjugate the '
people of the United States, be the result '
of her inordinate ambition, the citizens of •
MafTachufehs will meet them with the firm '
, and determined spirit of Freemen ; and as ,
. they have been among theftrjlto defend, will •
, jbe the lafl to rejlgn the rights of national F
f i fovereigmy.
1 | In this all important conflia, we expeft
t ( the resdy and zealous co-operation of the
" : free and enlightened people of America; and S
j 1 our country, having adypted every reafona- \
. ble measure to avert the calamities of war,
1 may, with humble confidence rely upon the S
1 God of our Fathers for proteftion and
' success. C
A people by whom the bledingj of civil 5
ai d religious liberty are enjoyed and duly *1
appreciated, will never surrender them but
with their livis. We will never forget, that ,
our character to this /ilerty, is feaJed by the V
blood of Americans I ai d we pledge to you fe
the pal riot ism, and all the energies oi our con- lt
, fti'Uents, that it (hall never be virlated by ol
the sacrilegious hand of foreign power. We
also molt folemniy pledge ourselves to sup.
port every measure which the government 2 '<
of the United States, at this momentous
, | enod, may fee fit to adopt, to protest the
commerce and preserve the independence of P
our country N
j In Serste, Ju.l: 7,. 1798.
| The foregoing addrtfsto tho Prtfidir.t 01 theU- "
J E i~d Wit f. lj :i"vf nr "i7".U'l * »>f*
1U 1 ihe-cupori Or 1 vol .hat tlii fa bi I, .-ir'l Ly •
the PrrflHefct of the Sehtte ind if* Sprak'r of th;
» Hoa;e rf li-nreteiitMivn, in I frythen
'o the S<a>it v r» anif Rcfrrf-rtJtiv r»of thli <or.i
of minwrafth.tif Congrf,, with a request that the/
>n r r, | f"< the fame to th? PrrlJent of the L'*iUj
h ace# - Sent down for concurrence,
t SAkin.i flkuit, Pr.GJent rtj
*>f the Sena*e.
In the House of Rrfrfentatlvet, June 7,' OS.
l! R a>l artd cn ctrnd. ' *
d £dwa«b H. Rohbiwj, Speaker of the
■° House of Keprefenutives.
h To tie Legijlaturc of Majfachufetlt.
,f CENTLEMEN,
f. AN affcaion'ate and refpeflfnl Address,
■ c from your tiro honourable houses has been
presented to me, according to your request,
y by your Senators and Rcprefentativcs In
• e Coß^refs.
i- The anxiety, the ancient, and con HaiiC
d i ." ° .'he people of Maffachufetta, and
th. J ir legislature, to take an early apd deci
ded part, in whatever relates to the fafety,
a and welfare of their country, as well as
, e their ardor, aftivi y, valor and ability in its
,f defence by sea and land, ae well known
» and ought to be acknowledged by all the
. 9 world.
Ie The 6rft forty yean of rnv life, were par
>« ln Maffachufi/tts, in a courf,
»- of /ducatioß, and , profeffional careci.
n which led me to a very general acquaintance
h in every part of that (late. If, with your
-1 opportunities, and preffirig motives for o'o
|. lervatio:., and exp Hence, yoncgn pronounce
n my services fuccefsful, and admin,Hr a tio«
.virtuous and the people of fifteen oth,r
,f . 'tales, couM concur, with you ii, that o
|. pinion, n.y r; •a d w nld be compleat, end
T mV Tf m ' ,a ard -"t •vid.es grafified.
" I,c r f Trance, in her revolution
O «er was liberty, it a liberty very ill
, t denned, and never iinderftood. She now
ani'S at dominion, s U ch as never has before
1. prevailed m Europe. If with t' e principles,
, t maxims and fyflem S , ofher present leader-,
(he is to become the model and arbiter of
nations, the liberties r,f the world will be in
ie Neverthelefi the citizens of Mafla-
Chuletts, who were the tii 11 to defend, will
k be among the last to refig, the rights cf our
)f na tional sovereignty.
You have great reason to expeft, in this
a important conflifl, the ready and zealous
co-ope ratio,, of the free and enlightened
0 P' op cf Anaenca, and with humble con
j. liu.nceto rely on the God of our fathers
lor proteflion and success.
With you I fully agree, that a peopb
d jy Whom the bleffingjot civil ahd religious
ir liberty are enjoyed, and duly appreciated,
. Wlil ncv " surrender them, but with their
- lives the patriotism and the energies of
i. y° Llr tonftituents, united with those of the
people of the other dates, are a sure pledge
that the charter of your civil and religion*
liberties, sealed by the blood of Americans,
will never be violated by the facnlegious
hahd of foreign power.
The solemn pledge of yourselves, to sup
port every rreafure which the government of
r the United States, at this momentous peri
y od, may fee fit, to adopt, to protea the
e commerce and preserve the independence of
e our country, mud afford, an important en
couragement to the national government,
r and contribute greatly to the union ot the
people throughout all tfce dates.
JOHN ADAMS,
j Philadelphia, June 15, 1798.
; It appears by the New-York Argus, thai
r Grecnleaf, lhe editor of that paper, has
1 adjourned his meeting of citi'tens in t'ne
5 fields, fine die.
; The ift Troop of Philad. Cavalry
nUI meet m tie firaJe in umform, To-mr'rov, nfur
riooet, at $ uiUci.
June iJS
Ey this day's Mail.
EOS 7 June 13.
Tribute of ref.-ea. The merchant, of
this lown whose vefTds ard propertr were
convoyed by the St. Albans, have we learn,
voted to present capt. Pender a piece of
plate, not to exceed too guineas in value ;
as a mark of their efUein.
The British have within the lafl three
months, convoyed fafe to the port? of t!u-
United States, above One Hu dr-d and
Fifty fail of American vessels laden with all
the i K-his of the nrther Indies. This fail
will countervail a thonfand Jacobinic mfinu
ations of British depredations.
Yeflerday Ward Cbipman. and Edward
\\ndil w, Efqrs. of the cammiffion forfet
thng the Eaflern boundary of this common
wealth, agrrerbly to the British treaty—ar.
rived in lown from St. Johns.
. TouifTant has behaved very well to the
inhabitants left behind at Port-au-Prinre,
See. He has written to iheßritilh Admiral
for fupplits in English vessels ; if he wi,l not
permit Americans to enter a besieged port.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA
ARRIVE D
Ship Hop», Younghufband/st. John's, ,3 d
Brig Polly, Harris, C. N M (
Schooner Nancy, Moodie, ««hi,no.e, 6
ci o Sa 'y. Woodman, Newbury. Port, ,
Sloop Corne'ra. Terry, George-Town, ~
Ihe Umted States frigate reached New-
Caftleon I'nday lad. The Confle -'ion fn
i gate lay in Patuxent ready for fe.i on Wedncf
! lad, only waitingfora favorable wind.
Virginia Lands.
ON THURSDAY (he »8-h inft. wili lie fold
at Public Auflion, at the Merchant'* Cos.
fee Huule at 8 o'clork in the eve wng, so e ill
the following bodies of patented lands in biai«
of Virginia—viz.
13,600 Acres of Land,
Situate. - li'.e Steer Creek, surveyed in June,
1784, and patente.-l in July, > ;3«.
26,998 Acres,
Situste b'.tween the Weft Fo-k of the Montm
gal.cha and tlie J.ut!e / Kenhawa, surveyed in
November. i;Bfi, and patented in 1702.
FOOT MAN % ly Co- JtuAimtert.
' j UP « 18 # V :h i:SFrefb Teas. f Pn
jnjt Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton, rr
jS*d For Sale, fjr £
6AMUEL HOWELL, , hc
At hit Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftroet,
AND BY Kcl
SAM. E. HOWELL, »de
At hit Coxipting Houle, Crooked fillet wharf, at I
Bohea,Souchong,Hy son, Young
Hyson, MyfonSkin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO, *]
China Ware, afforred ; black and coloured Lute- CUI(
Brings and Saitins, Nankeens, Cassia, large gardwi
lind A mnion Vans, fattio and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone Sicks. i
Thy have alfi Fh Sate, g
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkcrchi.fs, "T
French Cansbricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes. ®
march 8. f
FOR SALE. -n
A THREE Story Brick House, on the nortli 1
fide of Spruce-street near Second-llreet, of
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and Tb
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—T hi» *
houiV is incompleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen andahindfome w[
Dining r.oi 1 !!! over the Kitchen. m g
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a nsnre particular description iicon- hot
fidrred unnecessary. f ro
The terms of payment will be one third cash, is <
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 11 ext
months with interest. For further information,
buauirc of JOHN CR. AIG, [hc
A'». I a Dock-Jlreet. it ,
may 14 $ m<
Military Colours. ™
ft
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street, nQ
oppoiite the Friends' Meeting. on
PAINTING on silks for Military and other ot- lh|
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to |- JX
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty cf
colouring, neatness and maflerly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all possible dispatch, on the mod -
reasonable terms. P
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck-
etc, Cornices, Ice. Bcc. execuce-i in stile (not that 6r
fupcrb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.) 4 ,
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar- ; v j
tift maimer of his prolcflion. _ b 1
Mr. ttiiLLAGHx, from a numberof year's expe- hi
nenct in Europe and thiaconn-ry, flatter, himfolf j,.
tjiat proßOioniil talents, aoH reason- t}
»',ilc demands, will meet the entirt tpprobati.n of 2
ti.ofs gentlemen who wi'lpleafe toe 11 a* his Paint j,
ng Rooms. s6w may }. j.
NOTICE. P .
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and b
Drums, painted in a maiierly man: er, will no p
dou't feel tlie ufclvei obliged tor the kind can ion y
jriven ' y George Ru(»rr and Co. not to trull felf- tl
fhtte ing advertisements, but exanvne the work A
executed by both parties One view will satis- n
fy tv™ whsre the fup«riorii,y lies, —favethefpoil- o
ing of good silks by Gorge Rutter's pencil—and d
difcovcr the requiStes for the contraAing talents o
«f Henry Frailey, at Germantown may 10. si
Tea Warehouse, h
OPFOSfTE THE POST-OFFIC*. 1
THE Subscriber returns her fine, re thanks for
the encouragement (he has 1
ced since ner commencement in bufincfs, begs leave
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he has
received a frefh supply ot all kinds of Tea from the j
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her
conftaf t eijpeavouf to merit their future support.
She is in daily expedation of receiving a large Tup
ply of i»eod Coffee. | *
P SARAH EATON, j
mny 30 j '
Very Great Bargains,
CONSIS I'INGof Table Linen, Scotch and
India Mnflins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Houftkeepers to make
purchase of Enqniieof
7 homae Randall,
No. 88 Sfruce-Jireet.
may 17
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DUBT OF THE UNITED STATES
OTANDING on the flooksof the treafuty, were [
O forwarded tor London by tha Ihip William
Tcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the CtrtiScatesfuppofed to be loft, viz:
J164. Ba. Deferred debt, in<he name of Rev.
Edward >iiddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
Wo. 10,071.
Sell. It six pel-Cent. Stock, in the name ot
Edward Home, of Bcvis mc-jnt, Hants, Great
Britain, d; ted May 30, 1797- No. 15196.
1610. jO. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormlby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No.
J0199. , .
*OIB3. 7i. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated Odober 31 1797- No.
11810.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the fiid office of
jhe Treasury of the United Statss,-—and all per-
Cons concerned a_redeCred to talc - notice.
ALSO-—IN THE SAM® VES»£I,
Fifte-n share. Storkof tl;t Backof United States.in
thenarae of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty ot Norfolk, England, viz. Three Cereificates
for five lhares each, dated January I, 1797-
No. »i 983, iJ9 8 4-
Forthe renewal of which, applications meant to
oe made to the said Bank of the United States,—
»n4 all persons concerned therein arc defircd to
take notice* ...
JN. rAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4.
The-following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, standing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan.el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. aiJI. representing
13096 to 13105, ten fh ares—No.«ls0 —1306610
13075, ten ftlares—No. 1149—13°j6 to 13o6J
ten (hares—No. 1148— Ils°9t° fll3r "
—No. 1147—11471 to 11480 —Amounting to |
Forty Shares, vr rc forwarded for London by the
(hip Willia-a Pe-.u, which having been captured,
laid' certificates are fuppofed-to be loft ; for the re
newat of which, applicv.ion will be made to the
Bcari of the said company
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may f >d<iw
FOR SALS,
A BJack Man^
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an # excellent waiter, and
hai, been accuflomcd to marketing for a lamily—
his age about thirty two year*. For fu f ther parti
mlars, apply at the .office if this Gaz«tte.
may Ij. §
United States. 1 j
Pennfjlvtnia Di/iriS. J "
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to mc dire&ed,
from the Hon. Richard Peter*, Esq. Judge of
the D».Qr»(ft Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Dillri&, will be exposed to pub
lie sale et the Custom-House, in the City of Phil- .
adejphia, on Friday, the *oth day of June, inft.
at I a o'clock at noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having been libelled agayiij, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the kuQ court.
William Nichols, Mar dial.
Marfhal'i Office, >
June sth, 98 j £l£s of
By virtue of a dec-ee of the honoraMe tHe high court
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubfoiher will fell
at Public Sale, on the premises, on Monday, the
iyh of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
'"l AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
X No. 53. aad part of No. 54, late the property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, situated on
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings and impro/cments thereon. There arc
ere&ed on this valuable property, several large and J
commodious bii'k Warehouses, capable of contain-
ing from 15 to to,COO barrels of (lour, wkh a frame as
Ihed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hog (head of Tobacco; in perfett fafety hl
from the weather From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this hasbor, an ,
extensive and well conftrafted wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet aitd upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hipa of any burthen at the lowest tides. F'om J
the many advantages this property is known to possess,
it is eUeemrd equal if 1 ®t superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and mult be a de
sirable ob eft to those inclined to purchase Co valuable
an eUate. It is unnecessary to fay more on this fub
jeft, as thofie intending to purchale, will have an op- fcj
portunity of viewing the premises i previous to the
day of sale. '
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser fhtll give approved negotiable
notes, with fccurity «o the tutftec for the payment of
one half the purchase money with inteiefi, within
three months, and the residue with inlereft, within
fix months Irorn the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may «8. dtasthje.
I hereby give Notice,
TO all my creditors, that I have applied bjr pe
tition to the judges of the court of common
pleat lor the county of Philadelphia, at their fef
fton in June term in thi» mosth, praying that they
would extend to me the benefit ot an ad of Gen
i cral Afferahly «f this Commonwealth, pal Ted the
4th day of April, 1798, entitled *' An Ad pro
i viding that the perlon of a debtor (bull not be lia
ble to imprisonment for debt after delivering up
; his eftatc for the benefit of his creditors, unlefshe
hath been guilty of fraud or embozzlement," and
: that the said court hath appointed Monday the
33th diy of June instant, at 10 o clock, P. M. tft
hear me and my creditors at such place as the court
shall b« held, where they may attend if they think J
proper. JOHN GRAHAM. a
june 11. §t*s S
[ The Subscriber hereby gives I
! Notice to all hi.« creditors, that he has applied by t
) petition to the judges of the court of common
J pleas for the county of Philadelphia, praying that
■ they would extend to him the benefit of an A& of
c Afferably, of the Commonwealth cf Permfylva
- nia, entitled 44 A.n A A providing that the person
- of a debtor shall not be liable to imprisonment for
1 debt, after delivering up his estate, for the benefit "j
s of his creditor*, unlef* he hath been guilty of J
fraud or embezzlement,'* and that the said conrt a
r have appointed Monday the 15th day of June, in- t
ftant, to hear the fubferiber, and his creditors, at
the Court House in the city of Philadelphia at
r which time and place they may attend, if they
think proper. PETER CONJVAT.
e Philadelphia, June ir.
>• NOW LANDING, \
c From onboard the (hip Four Friends, and for sale j
r | at the Store* of
" JESSE & ROBERT WALN, '
| A cargo of Havanna Molafles.
1 june 13 i
' The Cargo ot the Ship Nathaniel Bayley, captain
Cambell, from Jamaica, will commence landing
TO-MORROW, at Soutk-ftrcet Wharf.
Sugars ot Prime Quality in Hhds.
M High proof Rum.
ro* SALI BT
Peter Blight.
Who also offrri for Sale,
A choice parcel of lft and 4tH proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter cades
Madeira in Pipes
:S Old Arrack.
re) §lfeodt!3jy
® London Particular Madeira Wine.
* A few pipes of a luperior quality, fit for imme
mediate use ; and CLARET in cases.
|j* FOR SALE BV
t g Michael Connor,
No. 101, corner of Second and Dock ftrcets.
of june 9. §
« NOW L -iNDIiSLi,
»i From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
r " 88 calks CLARET
7a do. do of a superior quality
% trunks green PARASOLS
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, W alnut-llreet.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
p- White Wine in half Caflcs
of Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
>r- boxes and baskets I
Lunelle -) I Entitled to
Sauterne / : Drawback,
.in Infh Market V WINES in Cases I
in- Macarty and I
tes Medcc J J
)j. Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags,
to may 19. eodtf
~ Now Opening,
At Wi ULIA m M'L aw s Saddle Mauufa&ory,
No. 72; Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
eS Pistols, direil from the Manufailurew in London,
ing also on hand,
" f Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
il1 " Horicman's Caps, Swords, Car touch Boxes, Vi
'"B lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's v Har3 Leather
' to Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &e.
april 9 d'f
Prison Manufaftory.
'V FOR SALE,
..' At the Prison of the City and County of Pliiladel
the phia,
Cut NaiU of all sizes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddlc and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
* Shoemakers and Sadltrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
tomb and hea . Hones, hearths, chimncv pieces
platforms, slabs, facia, window head', fills, &c.
is a All which may he had on reafonablc terms,
aatl Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
y— a moderate price.
irti- Orders from a dillance, direiled to Daniel Tho
mas, agarit for the prifon,]will b« attended to.
S Decembers. # ' »th6m
John Miller, Jun. I
NO. 8, CHIIWVT ITtUT,
Ha* received, per the Richmond from Calcutta 1
A Quantity of Sugar. ,N
Weft India Mulcovado quality, which he offers for '
• sale very law for calh or at 60 day*. ,
HE MAS ALSO ON «AND, {
A variety of British Dry Goods, f
which he will difpofc of on the moil reasonable t
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, &c. &c. 1
june 5 dtf wr
Madras and Ventapaulefn Ar
HANDKERCHIEFS, Ar
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jqft received,
ANV FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller Co.
No. 64, South Front ttrcet.
may 18. S
Pennsylvania Hospital, Ai
6 mo. 11,
'""P'HE CON fRIBUTORS are hereby notified to At
L meet at tie said Hospital, on 7th day , be- Ai
ing the 23d day of this month, at 4 o'clock in the
afternoon, to reconsider the expediency of con
ftru&ing a DoiW to the centre house of the new
buildings; alfb, to determine on an alteration to
be made in the sth rule, so lar as the famerefpe&s
the admifHon of poor patients. VV
' By Order of a Board of Managert.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk. Al
TO LET, ~~ ~ A
The House No. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in go#»d repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of business. Apply as above.
June 5. §_
Bourdeaux Brandy, A
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Clartt ">
Frontinac ( wine§ ; n Clft ,
Sautarne f g
Lundi J
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,0c0 Bourbon do.
Xl 4 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogsheads of Tobaaco
tOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
June a dtf
This Day is Published,
ANDFORSALIQV J.FENNO, II9,CHESNUT-S-< KIST
AN address
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prefcßt state of
French with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government ol the United
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress 5 written the last of April in the pre-
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen-
tatives. § june 11
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—xr 1
George Rutter Sff Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN aftile which will endure the hardships of the ''
weather without injury, and whrch for neatness
and exaAitude of colouring cann«t he surpassed in
this city.
; 1 FLAGS and DRUMS 1
Furniftied with dHpatch, en tho most moderate
terms. l
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire buckets, &c. accoraplithed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter flecfges
: himfelf from ao years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line, <
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their I
i Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw 1
* Library.
may 3
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifcmcct of C. I
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro- 1
sessional abilities, we have to request the public <
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison oi
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
,s universally adopted by tkem to invalidate the ta
lents of eftabliflied artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that bufinef-s which
their profeffional knowledge in 110 wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we fottcr ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andfhew thenectf
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attenti»n will be paid to th_*
felf*flattcrir.g advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS aad
n DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norm* C®urt, or Henry Feailey, GermaE
town. §6w may 8.
foiT sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenah#
Salums Emerties
t0 Gorahs Mow Saanas
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
Tickiries Baftas A
Romalls Coflas
Doreas Tanjeba
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzies Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfortmer.t of
~ Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUG.-iR
y> COTTON aud GIKGER
Mordccai Lewis.
mayjj. 2 2w awaw
'»• The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEsIUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhds. and Cases
l " Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
7 homas Fitzfimons
may i 6.
The Rev. Dr. Blair's
el. DISCOURSE,
Delivered on, the late National Fast Day.
Is just Publifhed,^by
' James Watters, iff Co.
And miv also be fad of tlie principal booksellers.
ile, The firftvolumeoftheWEEKLY Maoaiini
:es With an appendix containing the President's
kc. mefl'age ind the dispatches is now publilhed,
and may be had ofsthe publi(hers —the prin
at cipat booksellers in Philadelphia—by George
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somerville
ho " New-York —A few copies of the Dispatches
may be had feparats.
1 n-.ay a; . • *°dtf
IREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i> 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
(N pursuance of the ASL of Cengref, palled on tbe Cxih day of July one thousand seven hundred and
lunety-fcren, e.titled " An Aft laying dutiea on Stamped Vellum, Parchment »nd Piper", and the
AA pa fled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand fe*en hundred and ninety-fere*, entitled
" All Act to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A& enti
tled " All Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of Jalyenfaing, the fever al Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Statu.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, oc fteet or piece of Paper, apon which fcall he
written or printed any or either of the inHrnmentl or writingslollowiag—to wit:
DIl Ctl. Mlt.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - 5
Any Licence to praflice.or Certificate of the adnaiffion, enrolment orregiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proftor, in any Court of the
United Statta, - - - " - IO
Provided, that a Certificite in any one of the Court! of the United States
for one of th«faid Officei, (hall so far U relates to the payment of the
duty atore aid, be a fufficient admifHon in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every ofthefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military fervkes) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept tor Lands granted for military services) ... j
Any Charier-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on anyLegacy left by any Will or «-
ther teftamenftry instrument, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force otany flatute of diftributiens, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall be
abovethe value of Fifty Dollars,and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - "
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundted Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... y,
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional film of ,
Any Policy of Infursnce or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
poods insured from one diftrift to another in the United States, ij
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whicli
lnfurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum insured (hrilexceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that lhall pass ihe seal of any •
Court, Other than I'uch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of filch Court to
furaifh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Rond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, or wiih the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefpeftively, - - * " *
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, jo
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days, '
such bonds or notes lhall be fubjefl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and net exceeding five hundred doltai s, to
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, J lo
If above one thousand dollars, .... j 0
Any Notes iflued by the banks now eftablithcd, or that may hereafter be ellab
lilhed within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeftively, according to
the following scale. .....
On all llotcs not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, ;o
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... I
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - ... - »J .
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
" performed in the late war, - - ij
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cudoffis or duties, for lei's tban
five hundred dollars, - * - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, ~ - - J
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one difirijl to another diftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State, .... IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - aJ
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or tffofts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,)
Any Certificate of a Share in any lnfurance Company, «f a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
' If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforefaid will be collefted and received by the Sepcrvifors, Infpedon aud other Officer*
of Infpeilion, in the several Di!lria«, Surveye and Division* of the United Mates, aad by such other
r persons as (hall from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Dittrifls for
r that purpose.
The Supervifers of the several DiftriSs will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon *•
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcel* of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, o* payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
-1 taioed at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infptflor, Officer of lnfpeitien,
c or other parson appointed fer the diltribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflri&s.
J GIVEN under my Haud, a I Philadelphia
t the day andyear mkovementinned.
t OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Marcll 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30tb. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an adl of Congress palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft pafied on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An aft laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment aad paper."
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Cuftoras «r duties on
Imports are repealed.
A riifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervilors
or Infpeftors refpeftively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chafe at one time or procure to be damped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment r,r Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lar* or upwards.
lU.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each Ikin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eaeh (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may befurnilh
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for anylefler quantity.
Gil'sn under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day ahdyetr abovemcntioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of Ihe Treapury.
To he Let,
(And ppffelliob given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
11 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with kack buildings
and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major Jacx
som. Enquire at 187 South Third (Ircct.
April a. $
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Co.
Is" this day difTolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims againll said firm, are desired to
render thair accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who ii duly autho
rised to fettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILI-ER.
JOSEPH D \VIDSOM.
N. B. The-Stores at the corner ef Market and
Fourth Streets are naw to be let.—Enquire of Jo
eph Davidloa. April 56 WJtsjm
TO BE SOLD, "
4°>939 a cres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Pifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mil© Run.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five {hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad,
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Waftiington, from 14 to 16 frem the
villags of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurehafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer*
april IT. §
TO BE SOLD, ;
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the norther*
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehnnna
now, or late in the townfhxps of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from thiir quality and fit uat ion,
are a very desirable objc& for any man who mean»
to invest his money to advan'age.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo--
ney, a rcafonable credit will 1 e given for the refi<*
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 11. §
Bafken ridge—for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all of which if
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
Then* are on ita number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling houle
is & very convenient one . andjafmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confilliof ijoo fin. bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there i> on other pirts of laid
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a greal
variety of other fruiti, particularly Cherries of the
bell and molt delictus kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreos, that adi to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Itafituation is ab.ut 18 mi let
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth: 10 do.
from Morrit-Town, and II from Springfield—lt
it wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, ths price it fivepound pr. acre
in cafli, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
Me. 78, Chcfsut treit.
February a. oodtf
TMEN