fcttt cfttit MnttftJ J&tfltTS, am Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
Numbek 1680 ] PHILADELPHIA. SATURDAY EVENING, JAhUART 27, 1795. [Fozi/** XIII.
■ - ■ . -A-.
FOR THE CURE OF
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all dtforders if the Briajl and Lungs,'
Church's ; £yugli Drops
L. a meiiuuu'-unequalled by any other in the world.
CERTIFICATE. "
" I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
nioft leture Ceogh, Cold, and violent pain in my
breatt, by taking only a few doses of Dr. Church's
CftughDrflps. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
sin,
Having been recently retfored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it
aty duby to mak ' this public acknowledgment of
the Cmk, far the benefit of others affli&eu with a ,
flmilar complaint. I had been afflicted with a moil £
dreadful allhma for abfcut twenty-three years. 1
never for years got any reft, my cough was so
jreuWefome in the night; and used to discharge an In
almost incredible quantity' of glutinous matter oc
Com my Jungs ; and my breath was so exceeding g<
fliort that I could not walk atr-efs my room. Pro- to
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I too, in
them ; and, through taking them alone, lam now th
blaffed be God ! restored to perfeft health. My as
cafe is wall known to the members of the EbeDe- ai
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Field, of which 1 a/m w
also a member ; and any of them will glaily Ca
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what 1 [t
sty. I am. Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY, ,
No. ft, Smith's-court, Gpnat Windmill-street, y
Witncfs, q
N. Lancworthv, jun.No. 40,
l*ultney-ftr»et, Golden-fquar*. p
CRURCHJS COUGH DROPS B
Are prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and B
sole proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South Third-street, next the Mar
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
York, by Messrs. staples and Co. 169 t f,
and iVlifs Wedman, 111 Wiiliam-ftreet.. j t
Dr. Church may be consulted every day, at his
office, 158 South Front-street, Philada'phia. t[l
January 9. c; ,
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn-
pike Company. ti
. vv
January 4, 1798-.
At a metting of the President and Managers,
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per share ■was
declared fir the lajl half year, which will be by
them retained, fir the payment of the debts of -j.
the Company, agreeable toa refolntion of the Stack-
heidtrs the I,lth June lafi. -y
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer tl
Of the Philadelphia. LancafterTurnpikeCom'py. tl
January 8 misfw4'iy ai
J House and Lots, in Bordsntown.
r | '£) BE SOLD, a handforoc two ftorjr Hoi*fe. n
-l with the Lot en which it is er-e&ed, situated cc
_ ah/iUu . thc-i'ii Jillc -«f- the—hfaiififul and healthy; -m
Village of Bordentown. rhe h«ufe is forty two T
ftet front, and in neat OTnerr —rue iut m/imnu -gj
one acre, and in one hundred feet on the main ] e
street, and extendswith the fame breadth tuback n
street. Also, a largf Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparatcd from the former by back street. ra
One third only of the purchase money will be re- j j
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re- t(
mainder, such credit wiH be given as the purchase tI
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •- „
all incumbrances, and an indifpntable title give:if
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refitiiug in Bordentown, near. c
thepremifes, who will (hew the fame, or of ( i
' PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street. n
3 * December t. t
Ran away the 2jth of Decern- I
ber, 1797, aNegro Man, about 5 feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion ; wfcen spoke to
and called by hit name he las a quick (harp look
gut of his eye# and (hews the white of them very
much ; has taken all his elaathes with him, which
ate, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a fttiped veil, n .nkeen c
breeches, fiHc ftoekings and rtiffled Ihirts, and a
number of other ekxatbs. The said Negro under- I
flaads farming, and is a good feoemaker and car- 1
penter ; he c?n read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
said negro and secures him, so that 1 get him, fttall
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber, .
» land, ICeut coonty.
14. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
January I.
_ To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story btick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh tra<S lane, in the
townfbip of Moyamenflng, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. FuFther particulars will
he made luowu upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for U»e lencwal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United State*, (landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, 4atcd July 11, 1797' l^e ame
inviog been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, flee. i«
JFor Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and Half tierces
Jitwrdeaux Brandy
\TeneriJJe VTine
Molajfs
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead of paint
hrujhes.
N. is 3 J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
AW. dim
FUR SALE, ~~
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. the corner of Chefnut and Frout streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eilfcs and' Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and fwge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dia's,
Springs, Hands, Glafle-s, Pu nice Stone, F.mery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Torus, Pliers,Chains,SeSls, Keys, &c. fee.
Apprentices Wanted.
covcaibtr 3. f&rntf
FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. (sf Co.
No. 8, Chslnut-ftreet, ■- ,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
1 1 Amongst which are, gr
Gurrahs Mamaodies foi
a Baftas Sanras tic
Guzxenahs Tanda Colfaes so
s Guzzies Etnertics Ci
Blue Cloths Calko -s
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
marufaiflures of Patna.
December *-. § -
Recently Publijhed,
Aud just impoj-ted from England, by William
c GRi-FriTas, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Morc in J.Ruees,
a \ Cheap and valuable work, in two closely -p
A printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
0 Uluftrations of Prophecy : in
a In which are elucidated many predi&lons, which Sa
r occur in tfaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan- D
g geliftf, and book of Revelation ; which are tho't
1- to foretell among otlwr great events, a revolution N
1, in France, lavorable to the intereft,s of mankind, B
v the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclefi- Q
y aftical tyranny, the downfall of civil defpotrfm, Y
and the (Xihfequent melioration of the state of the
n wGrld : together with
i - A large collection of Extracts,
* Interfperl'ed through the work, and talcen from p
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir Isaac Newton,
Vitrfnga, Mr. William I.owth,
Dr. TtuGoodwin, Fleming,
Dr.-Hemy N' we, Bengelios,
Dr. J»ha Owen, Dauhuz,
Dr. CrelTener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, Lownjao,
Brenius, Bishop Newton, add C
d Bishop Chandler, Bishop Hll rd. 1!
ir By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS. S<
r " Bafides various ether inquiries treated of in »
'• this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ; "
it contains a considerable nunjrber of or ob- **
15 fervations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authenticity, uses, and obfeurity of the apo
calypse, and the genuineness of the Hebrew pro
- phew; oa the rapid corruption of christianity in \
the fourth ecntimy ; on the difperlion andreftora-
tion ef the Jews, the history of the falfe Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the reasons it
infupport 0/ the conjcAure that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
' rafiftaace to opprefßo* ;on the irruptions of th'
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
'j. fall of the Roman empire ; on the customs of the
Y Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those nations, and those of the
Turks; on the ufarpation of the Mamalukes, and .
tka past history and present Rate of Egypt; on P
y. the charaiScr andcouduOt of Conftantine, JuHini- p
an, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the Scarcity of »
books in the dark ages, and the caufcs of the lie- co
cline of literature ; on th» rapid rife of the French fe :
monarchy, and the caafes of its fall; on the ia
eonfiftencies in the political charaAers of bHhops
■y WcWfOJl antr Hurd ;On the - -
in learning atfd civil liberty, and its tendency to pro- ar
k mote the ellabliftmlent of equal governments. w
lr ludependent of the large proportioa of original _
:t * matter contained in these volumes, those who are
tjitcrefted in thefubjed will, it isprefumed, wifli
to peruse or confultthem, hecaufe the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
•* marked with inverted commas, are taken from a 1
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a* J
lead if the roman cathclk commentators be e*- t
ir * eluded) than are cafil 1 acceflTible to any ©ne indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found r<
in any one library in the world. They are fur- fa
nifhed with indexes, and a copious tabid of con- ft
tepts. Tan 32 —Mwi"
i- Ft>r sale or to be let on ground- v
h - . rent,
A valuable lot of Ground ;
QITUATE on the north-e-sft corner of Wai-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- 1
it]l Houfa square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
, en on Walnut street, and one hu»drediand thirteen
a feet and an half 011 Fifth street ; there are X
er - present two small two story brick houses, and a
it- number of small tenements thereon.
-It Also, for Sale,
up Two three story Brick Houses
' a " With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
er ' between and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eaft
t ward nine:y-five feet,> then w-idenitlg to the
south thirteen feet fix ini'hes. These houses
ave the conveniunce of a public alley adjofhrng
lin- on the north fide, and are a very ctefirahle litua
wo tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
iple may have occasion for storage of goods. This
the property will be fold on very realonable tefms
om forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
: July 31. mfcwtf
and ~~ NOTICE.
'f \ 1,1, persons concerned are hereby notified,
"j — xV. that the f"Wcriber intend" to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
hare Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for
ame war j e d them under cover of a letter addrefied to
ame John Anfley.of London, by the (hip Bacch-.is, capt.
Gtorge, whichteft t'his port in June last for i.Oll
- don. But that (hip having been captured on her
padage andfent-to France, the above letter and in
' closures have failedirttheir destination.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January I ft; 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
nint. tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, navembcr 8. zaw6w
'• FOR SALE,
- Several fonts oflN^pes—half worn.
Induding Lotig Primer, ahont 400 weight, in
good condition, and would anfvrer the purpose of
:ets, a country printer as well as irew.
Enquire of the Frjnter nov. 30.
>ois, yuft Publijhed,
' VE " And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
ions Cary, and the other prieipal Bookfjliers in tSe
la, ». city,price one dollar, boards,
ery ' New Views of the Oriffin of the
tail o
ftc. Tribes,and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SiVHfH BA-XTON, tn o.
tf jo'ic 30. *4t
For Londonderry,
"Villiam,Wfcitten, mailer.
fUuath good vtifei, has the j
greuier part her cargo on board, and will fail as .
soon as tile navigation pennils If applica
tion is made, a few calks will b\ taken kn fre^ht; .
for which, apjl parfftige, appfy -o the Captaip, at
Cuthbcrt't wharf, or the fubferititrs.
Jolw Slyrin,
Landenbcrger's wharf, er
: George Bobfon,
No. »5 Enuth Strett.
Nicklin y Griffith, 1
At their Store on Walnut Stree'.Wharf — |
HAVE FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum .
Madeira Wine in pipe 3 and hhds. \j
' Teaeriffe d«. in pipes (
Old Port dp. in hhds.
imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of chests
1 S*il Canvass, No. i, to 8 An
- Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
t get fuftable for the Weft India market
1 Nails aflbrtel!
, Wack quart bottles On
- Queens ware i» hhd«. and crates
, Yellow ochre dry in casts ;
E And atNew-York, onboard the
fhlp Diana, Liverpool, expefled round j
as soon as the navigation i» open, t
1 fine Liverpool Salt \ 1
. Coals • c
Spanish Bi'own "1 c
Veneti i* Ued |. s
Purple Rrown i p A IWTS Pel
Patent white a
White lead j <
Ked lead J _
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw'ne
1 Ship Diana, J;
' \ * or Sale or Charter. a c
' ALSO, ,n',
® r 'S A*AZON. we
s late firm of Philip Nicklin Co.
si» now changed to ," u
NICKLIN tf GRIFFITH. {J
January i. eodtf t0 ;
i For Savannah,
s TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING, atic
i , - x Tlie feft failing ship mai
j SWIFT PACKET,
1 Patkic* Gmbsen, Master, '*6'
lying the firtt wharf below IrO J
f Market Street—hat handsome ac- a " c *
- commodations for pafTengers—Fc>r freight or pas- u
i fege apply to the Master on board, or to
" N. Iff J. Frazer, ma}
asr7 ™
L Prime Rice, in wnoie and nail tierce 6, Georgia
. ana Carolina tndige, Molasses in hhds, TenerifFe (
wine, &c. &c ,j, e
I December 27 3tawtf.
[ For Ainfterdam, -
The Ship c
a farmer,
John M'Co-llom, Maft<fr ; TJ
" WILL fail in a few day,, the ®
_ part of her cargo being Scl
d roady. Borkeight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
- faee, apply to the master onboard, at Walnut- 1"
1- street wharf, or to .
JOHN SAVAGE.
Z Who is Elnding.out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale, r j e
Claret in hhds. ui
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality fel
Fentiniac, T '
II Sautcrne, V Wines in cases La
111 I.unille, ) b Y
Pi-unes in boxes _
3 porembero4-_ ,
For Sale of Charter,
-j —j,-, The Snow
>n mmkrj good hope, j
T 'nti Will carter about nop barrels,and .
1 " ready to acargo. For terms *
•■S* apply to
e ! Pragers y Co. of
nj.- No. 151, South Second-street. S<
ia- . Who have for (ale—prime St. Croix Sugar and hi
ho R»rn, Madeira, Liflxin, and Ttneriffe wine. H
,1s November 7. dtf. v;
For Savannah, in Georgia, ai
THE SHIP n
Sally Butler,
Captain Qhisholm, ai
''''tA new veflel, with excellent ai
'^^^ a^ij3a: -^ for passengers h
e ' Sails on the rbth of December. For Freight or e<
re f Pafiagp, apply to ROSS & SIXtfSON. t
Who have to of \
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
to INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. 1
* lt " november 18. 5
>tl- .
ber Chocolate and Multard,
m- '
of a superior quality mamifacftsred,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; ftlelled or
pearl Barley j Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
n( j Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port atyi Lisbon Wine,
J luitaWe f«r exportation or home co«rumptio»'.
The highest price given for
>• Also forfide, K quantity of Hacking and
' common Baizes, a variety m colors; a bale of
Puftian., Siia-.vls, Ac, for sale hv
JOHN HA WORTH, f
ft* No. 98, south Front .street. :
in nov. 27. m.&rh.t.ij. £
ot Samuel Pleafants Ss? Sons,
No. 74, South Second-flreel,
HAVF.rectived a supply nf Stafonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
>=e. rcafr-naMe vrms. Oft 27. —4'.v
£ Tin Plates, |
he. ' ron SALE fIV « (
l. SIMON WALKER,
Pi-e, c .ar Fifth flreet.
C Decamr;er 2s. iw
To be Exchanged for
Brttifh, German, or India Goods, A
iti THE PACKAGE }
A tracl of valuable Land ; i r
In Lycciniiig, joining that of the Holland co. |ijj
aod containing xo,coo Acres. it i
Inquire of the Printer. TJ
J**- 15. § JP :
—— hoi
ttOSS iff SIMSON, v
in
HAVE FOR SALE, t J l€
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON °
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, ") •
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j F .
300 caiks RICE, and
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
Mil S
Just Published,
And to be had at the Boolc-florfs of MefTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, v Young and Ormrod, .
in Philadelphia,
observations
On the Caufu and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers. '
To ivlr.cb.it annexed, _
AN ABSTRACT of the opiim>r>sand practice of S
different authors : apd an APPENDIX, exhib
king inttcefting fa<2s and reflections rchtive to c
the Synod* I a :raides, or Yellow which we
has occasioned fomuch dilirefsand mortality, at
different periods, in ieveralof tlie fcaport towns
of the United States of America. ar
by WILLIAM CURRIE, g
Fellsw of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiails,
and Member of the Piiilofophieal So- q,
ciety, &c. ■* •
Salisbury Estate.
Mc
THE Subscriber, piopofing to contra® hii bufi- a C
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate cef
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, pec
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift Stj
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft- j-j. (
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thouland acres !i_J
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there. To
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any ip this country, and probably, equal r ]
to any in the world ; for not one of (ixty-nine guns | (
lately made, although some of the C 4 were bored
into 34 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of 1101
manufa&irre, and a place of arms lying in the state are
of Cotmefticut, and miles from several land- ply
iugs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan- an<
tage that can r«fult from a plenty of water issuing lini
from a l»rge natural pond, very near the Furnace, p rc
and which may be converted in»o a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek. and utensils, and have peffeflion
on or before the firli of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean timpfbr goinginto Blast im
mediately theresfter, for every pait will be delivered
itlliH, ippijl'm X'*' r l"T'"'' l it" - , iVr, For 1
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress Tor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on T'
thepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York. 1
r WILLIAM NEILbON. n »
Dr. i. 3 av/tf
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WIIX commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Scl*, Dollar's, at Wm. BLACKBURM's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secend-ftreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- de>
ing and examining iu these, the City oi Washing- Rt
tpn, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and inforoia- u s
tion where tickets may be had ill nioft of the Lotte- no
ries anthorifsd by law in any of the States of the fh;
Union. ~
N. B. The bufrneft of aßaoictK, in buying and ij,
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, qi
discounting Bills and Nores of Hand, sale ol
Lands, Houses, See. &e. will be duly attended to, v.
by Wm. BLACKBURN. V
november 15 •
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ, . a
R"fcacher ol Vocal and inllrumental Music, T
EI'URNS hinfinccre thanksto the Ladies and t |,
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very f 0
J liberal encouraa;enieiit since his residence in th'i, ci- ) e
* ty, as d refp&itfully informs his friends and the pub- OI
lie generally, that, in consequence of the request rt
of some cf his friends, he has opened a Musical t )
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where C J
d he will teach o» the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.— m
He deems itunneceffaTy to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti t l
on of this kind-, "he will only fay, that attention t,,
and zeal are much excited in an ass mbly, where e(
numbers are in pursuit of the fame obj". His | e
arrangement is such, that an interference of the a .
the different fcxes will be avoided. Those Ladies 0
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to n
it attend at his school, he -ufrill wait upon at their ; s
houses. Apj lieations will be thankfully receiv- ri
>r ed at his houft, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dee. 7. *iweod
James C. Samuel W. Filher,
_ AT THE.R STORE,
N0.;13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
' HAVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunk', assorted
3r A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels f
r > Ditto futty romall Handkerchids '
> Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
e « Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs dkto '
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffctit 3 1
id 4000 pieces Nankeens, and
of Few chests best Hyson Tea
jfljtt—r coo boxes best London Window Glass, 1
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
novembex »8. jawtf
The History of Pennfylvahia,
IS, Bv RO3ERT PROUD,
on Tg now in the peefs, and will be publifhct! 5
riah PoulsoN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
accordfng to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibert.
July 18. ' sawtf
■ . I I
To Be Sold,
AGREEABBV tothelafl will and teframent of
Wntif/iM Ht vsham, deccafed, and posses
sion given immediately, a valuablj property in Arch
ftrsct, between Third and Fourth ft.eett>, confid
ing of thah»tife, >Io. 107, with the lot ori which
it is eredled, allabl?, and other improvements.—
Thehoufe is »o fe«t front, and contains ten good
apartmtnts. The lot uof the fame breadth as the
houfc and 209 f«et deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goep repair. The liable Hands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. rhis property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a ad feet court and an alley, 8 feet wise, extend
ing to Clurry Street. It? central position and the
advantages it pofTefles with refpeA to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfsn wilhingto poflefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No
Street^—of
RoS£RT Heysham,
or f A<£lirtg Execotors.
Fcancis Bowas Sayr*, J
January 11 §
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has Itudied leveial years under one of
tlis moil eminent mailers in that science)
INFORMS his Iriends, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Psint i
,ng, fruit, ftow.rs, taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters hirafcW his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ higi, as
be m.-Jtes.uo additional charge if there are two
pupils in one sm»!y,
A line direcfted to W. H. left at the office of this
Gi zette, will be immediately attended to.
Janusry 9. §iw
0- The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uron, mailer, taptu-ed by
a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
cember, may receive interesting information ref
pe<!ling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
* The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a fervicc to the
concerned, by inferring the above in fbeir news
papers. Jan- 3.
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDIVARD FOX's Engagements >
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumflances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ilTue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at N«. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANKS,
'John "miller, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
D t s4trli,ffl l , u jiMt
IN thlsjCity> on Sunday November 16. 1797,
a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 8
notes of hand to Read & PtfßiE, as follows,
John DuffMd's, for 441 dollars 73 cents.
"William M'Laws 435 37
Gefcrge iVay's i 77 19
John Dosks 11 , 90
Edward Clayton's 60
Do. 30
Do. 1^
John Brown's . £lO6-15-11
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianete—an or
de» upon Walter Franklin, Esq. in lavur of Charlos
Read, and fuodry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforcfaid
notes of hand beiilg ft-p'd, a reward of 15 dollars
{hall he paid to the person or persons bring
ing said pcck-t book with the aforefaid contents to
I Head and I'ierie, No. 6 S, Ckafnat Street and no
. queilions alked.
I January 19, *ced}t.
' War-Oifice of the United States,
January the ijl, 1798.
WHEREAS frauds have been praflifed, in
obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lancis, due
to the Officers and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the preduAion of forged instruments.
To check in future such impositions, it has been
' thought artvifeable ; that all persons, having claims
/ for bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
" legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any inftrumerit
- or deed or transfer, be required to forward their
' refpeilive claims to the War Office, on or before
1 the firft day of January 1799 in order that such
e claims may be duly examined, adjulled and deter
- mined upon-
To fuWl annate futh claims, a ftriil obfervancc of
the rules heretofore ifiued from tli# War Office will
n be indifpenjable ; and in addition to what is requi.>
P ed by the said rules, th« certificate of the acknoW
1S ledgement of a £)eed or Power of Attorney, mull
e a-fo set forth the place of refidente and occupation
- s of the claimant or person making such acknowledge
0 ment; and when the pj oof of personal knowledge
is by a witneft or witnesses, their place or places oi
'• residence niuft be set forth in like manner
>- JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to r?cur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the French Lan
guage,that hehas jufit opened his Libr/iky, con
lifting of up wards of 1500 volumes, the heft cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru<Siot), or plea
fare. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of tlw Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Engliih andSpanilh Liang-jagen, executed with ac
fSj curacy and difpatcfa. eoim no'j.tj.
Imported (via New York) on the
' rr ship Herd, from Madras and Calcutta, and/or
sale by the fubferiber, at N<-. 61, Chefnut fireet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagouges Charconna Derails
Chintz r.nd'Calieoes T)ac.-a worked niufcitis
C( J= Gitl.'s Romals K-tidannoes
I A . Nillas & Penfiifocs thafla Romals
. ct Blu: e'ath iliff rihbon
, ue MullMullhinkerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
.l ' Leflcr Cardimmn 3eeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
f novemfcerWstSHINGTO y L OTTER r,—No. U.
List of Pmzss and Blanks.
148 th Day's Drawing—Dec. 2.
JVo. Dots- Ao- Dots. Ao. Dolt. So. Dots.
167 13691 1644* 37 1 ® 1
901 75i <i74 211 *
489 * 844 : *74?<» 7'°
13*3 x 940 SBB 38131 x
3«» x 147*7 * 634 39 04 J x
4J« IJJ3 1 »**?.? 3°9
803 617 x 49076 ao 74?
#137 618 x 481 746
347 840 870 Bji *
585 16033 x 3°« JO * 4*o»< **
760 l 8» x ■ 593 *B7
Hs3 9J9 x 688 25 70° *
6s 18448 BJJ *
613 880 31110 811 x
408 a x 885 fit x 4*OJ4 *
607s X >9741 3J I *
156 784 6m 510 JO
»43 x >0514 6is x 8"3
515 * 167 x 32005 433"
546 397 * '4l * 75 3
548 347 191 *
793 841 957 44533
fto7 20 907 33 "3 641
506 i"J4 796 9" 8
J«» -» 379 *0 9*3 4?cßi x .
SSi 7*7 34364 4619* *
*955 * 8?* 6 *S 88 3 x
9647 995 7*4 8 ' 7
787 x «»ocj 986 47048 x
898 4*B x 3JC66 " 090
I©JOJ x 610 417 . 75 1 *
937 * 999 53* Bl * *
9?3 79* 943
iroSS 367 811 48661
773 s'B 930 49873
12145 618 36467 10 940 x
719 14109 931
753 * *5337 * 99 s
Surveyor General's Office.
December t, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres. 68 perches
of land, fijnate in lower Smithfirll towfiftip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Stlr
veyor hath mads the following note,. viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Oordoti *pd
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Vatk«r. *"
The firft Mooday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the above caveat, or any
others inti rested or concerned therein, they having
at lead thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January 16 §tiFiwtm
TON JOSEPH IGNATIUS DE VIAR,
Hii Catholic Majcfty's Consul-General and Commif
flnner to ihe United States. i
T T 7HEBE AS, by the 17th article of the existing
VV Treaty of triendlhip, iimits and navigation,
between hii Ca:holie Majelv and the United States«f
America us ttiouljted, " That such Ihips, being la.
« din, air to be piovided not onl; with tt,but
'• sl'o with icnificates eonaioins the leveral particu
«' lars of the caigo, the place whence the fhia failed,
'• that to it may be known whether any forbidden or
«' contraband gonds be on board the fame, which cer
» tifkalct (hall be made out by the officers of the place
■' whence the fhi» (ailed, in 'he accustomed form ;
" and if anyone (hall think fir or deGiab'e to express
'• interlaid eenificates the persons 10 whom the
•' goods on boaid belong, he may freely do To ; with
«• rut which rtq ifites, they may be feat to one of the
>' ports of the other co.ima&ing party, and adjudged
«' by the competent tribunal, accoidiijg.-to what-is a
•• b"ve frt forth, that allt' e circumAances of this o-'
11 million having been well examined, they shall br
j iifirir i»i lni l """• « vt
S'Trtr —uwTne tfore, ir, order To pitvem
the improper capture, ftfzure or detention (if any -i- ,
meiieso vefTelstrading agreeably to fsid treat/, by ,
his C'lhobc anajtfty.'s cruvfcrs or vellels,
1 do hereby give notice, that such documents as art
ftquired ia the said article, shall be granted to thole
who may apply at the office of the Confulatj General
or at any oth. r of the Consulates throughout the Uni
ted States. J*n- eg 6t
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom it may intereftor con
cern, that the Judges of th« Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Mcnjqp, tte twnty-fixti <t*y of
February ntkt, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-houf* in this city, on the fufcje<3 of his peti
tion for til? benefit of the Ipfolvent Law—and
tbat their attendance is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan, 16. cor26thF
Bread will be di/iributed to the Poor
Who may apply for the fame from the Friends
meeting-house, corner of Second £nd Market
street, on Titef'ay the 35th January inft. at 10
o'clock in the morning, by the guardians of the
poor, agrerable to the wills of John Petty, and
William Carter.
PETER MIERCKSN, Prefidcnt
of the Board of Guardians.
Phi'ad. Jan. 13.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the IFnised States are hereby J.
informed, that the banufadnre of Window
Glali is now contrntoced at the Glass House in Bos
ton. (
It is needle fj to fay any thing of th« excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to he in every refpesft
greatly fupcriet to any ever imported from Europe
h will be cut to any size commonly uf;d ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Cbaklss F. (
Kurrcn, at the Ghfs House. ,
Orders from the distant ! tares to be addrefTed to v
Mr. Sauuil Gore, Court-street, Boston.
£5" rwo or three good Glass makers are want
ed at the above works ; /\ich as can produce re
c«mmendations for food bchav or, may be fare of
employ, by applica.ion to Mr. George L. Lindt,
at the work;. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
BoftGt), Jan. 16 n—iaw6w
All Persons
Having any demands aea : nft the Eftateofthe
!*<« Captain George Irwin, are reqnefted to
bring ia thtir accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
end thole who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IitVVIN, 'AiiminUlratiix.
»rr. -0 170 7- J
Imported in the lhipMANciksTEß,
Benjamin Shewell, Matter,
Pvom Bourdeaux, and forfale by thefiibfcriber,
T"'r>, 11 Walnut Stieet.
Conrdcaux Brandy "J
Irifli market claret in ca£es / Entitled to "
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback. c
Sautcrne, do. do. J s
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO JIAS Ml SALE.
S'nerry Wint in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. jo, '
Pimento in bags '
4000 bufbels Liverpool fah.
At'g. 24. tot&stf
THIS EVENING, January r n .
At 6'o'clock, will be : 'J Vu * l > c
at the Coffte-houfe, 1 ,
An elt'gant House, No. 78,
IN Walnut-llrect, which isisfc« front,by J?l
(crt d<rop, w'th a lot adj wing 10 f-l l l c, /- J
7» feet 9 inches
oceti; ied by Geon-m -''iHing, E(q. Ihe houle
coipple'eif fixiite-i iu every refpecl. ItMjofeet
deep, has two large parlours, Fronf one a+Ket,
tie back 22 by iS 1-2 feet ; a h4m<Kow Hrswing
room *4 x-» hj 24 feet ;
drawing room, and chamber aJj have ma
hogany doors and these room*,** well a* the r»om«
above thenn, hare a communication with each ofh
er ; the height in the fiH- and second ft t'u.% 2Ti I i
feet, ar.d thofc rooms have stucco cornices *nd cine
room# up stairs, the girret«, which are di
vided in'o three rooms, a good kitchen, wain an-1
milk house, lhowcr and plnngiDg baths, a
ke hour?, a pump «n the yard, and a j feet 3 inch
alley, that leads into Fourth-Areet. Ibe cellars
V are laid with time ami floored with two inch plank
aird plaiftrred : the yard is well p-V»l,.and the
house is ciear «f ground rent; it is rented for one
year for 400 pounds p«r annum from the 4th of
November last. Two brick stables in Walnut
ftreet, with two coach hsufts, one of them will
hold two carriages, theo;her one; the smallest lia
ble has room for three, and the largest for four
horfis: it is »i faet front on Walnut-street, by.jo
feet 3 inches deep ; tfey have excellent 'oftsovrr
them, and arc new rented for ico pounds per sn
num ; the cellar is arched and laid with
inch plank, and will hold about 100 pipes of wine ;
is c*» rof ground rent; has the privilrge©f 80
II 1-2 feet alley, tha* leads into Fifth-ftreec.
Also, a large brick (lore, 33 feet fronton fourth
street, by 50 deep, which might at ifmail expenc *
be turned into a handsome dwelling hoafc, having
been so contrived in the building: it has a yard 48
feet fix inches deep, by 24 wide; ha< a rain water
pump and nectflary, and the c«l!ar*is laid with two
inch plank, and is now rented at 250 pounds per
annum ; the rent was paid for 18 months.
This building is fubjc<slto a ground rent of eleven
dollars and three quartersper anrum.
■A lot fttuate cn theeaA fide of Fourth-Areet, 10
feet front by 50 feet, it joins on the end of Dr.
Ruth's lot, .md has the privilsge of a three feet al
ley adjoining, itisfuhjeil to a ground rent of fix
dollars per anrum.
before the fa'e, may apply to the
fubfe iber, George Mtsot»or
FOOTMAN & GO. au^lioticcr?.
Marrtial's Sales.
United States, 1
Pennsylvania DiJlriS. J
O riCE is hereby given, that in pursuance of
iN a writ to me directed, by the. Hon Rkhard
Peters, Esq. Judge of ths Diltrifl Court of the
Uniced States, in and for the Penr.fylvania Dif
trifl, will te exposed to public Sale at the Cufloai
houfe, on Monday, the 29th day of January inft.
at 12 o'clock at noon,
1 box of Sugar
2 bags of Coffee
1 barrel, ~"s
1 half barrel, and > of Limes
1 tub j
2 jars Of Honey ,
26 Pine Apples
» kegs of Spirit,
t krg of Sugar, and
7 barrels and one half barrel of Sugar '
The fame having been libelled againfl, profs
cited and condemned as forfeited, .in the said
Court—by
WILLIAM NICHOLS,' Marjhal.
MarfhaPs Office, ")
17th Jaruary. 1798.3 19—dt2yht
C nftom-Houfe 'Sal es.
Philadelphia, 7gnuary 13,^17138.
l ; 1 \ uTk* a u?l 1(i rT rl
Cuftotn-Woufe, in pursuance of.the laws in that cafe
made and provided, the follotfing articles ofxaeft--
ehandize, having beeo stored more than nine months
and not claimed by the owners or cohfrgnees tliereof;
which articles be viewed during the fpfcee of
'href days antecedent to the day of (ale, between the
hours of nine and two o'clock.
FCP Twncafe?, containing Woollen Hats
MpC One cafe, containing Books and Pamphlets
R-P Three caflcs, containing Girth Web
(DU) One cask, containing Spades and Shoveli
W Four casks, containing .Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Bears
IS One keg of Red Leadj
O WC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. dtf.
W L One do and two cases containing Images and
a naments for building
£No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB One cask of Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens Ooe bundle, containing pieces of
Music
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Au'oley One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewrtr Lamps
B One box containing Brushes
G Bolland. One cask containing ajchecfe aad some
oatmral
.yR One crate of Earthen Ware
R. 14. One crate of Earthen Ware.
J'". <3 ; d.t?q
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
Febrniry ftert, will be eicpofed to Public Sale",
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-flreet,
at 6 o'clock In the evening, the following
ESTATES
No. I. A two story brick Hou r e, with t two
(lory frame Buildings, on a lot 20 feet front and
100 fe«t deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege cf an alley to gti thereto. Thit
interest has lately been let lor 200 dollars per an
uum, and is situated in ChriHian-ftre«, between
Front and Second- ftrects, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
No. 2. A three story brick House, situate at
the north eall corner of Chcfnut flreeta, being r<
feet on Second-flreet, and 20 feet on Chcfnut- .
street, now in the tenure of Mr. Morangc, at the
yearly rent of 40c dollars, and is deemed one of 1
the best (lands for the fait of dry goods in this city. '
No. 3. A harulfome well finilhed three story 1
brick House, 2ofeet front and 100 feet deep, situ- ,
ate in Fifth-ftreet. between Mirk't and Arch
flreets, No. 40 This house is built and finifhed
in the modern flyle, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. T hei eia a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; an'd the house is at pre
frrt let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick Hoife, fitu*e in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third-street,
bciti? 20 feet front and ijo feet deep, at present
occupied by Hubert Kenny.
No J. .V ftory bricit House, on the bank
fide of Front-flreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to. Water-street. where it is five story. it is io
fe«t front and 48 feet drep, in complete rfri-i'r,
aad i> rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The condititms of Sale are, one quarter c*(Ji,
on* ouarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 m: nths',
and (Mie quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, tl| I?9 g 3aW.ISF
For Sale, '
rhe time m' a young Kiilatto G. : i 1, about
oT* • c '«vea years to fcrve.
j Sh; is very capable nf taking care tof a child.
and imderftanJi house w*)t. lie*ire at No
9", V«-rth rth llrcet ' • I
1 O '*•
4' "c'o X, G T s - .
j HOUSE OF R EPRESENTATI\ r E&
DtiaUm Fort'g" 'nUrontrf.
U j [Continued from Owttte.]
r ' Tie following SjX">' of Mr. BitrAt-D, <•«*-
';i vtrtd on Monday tit 11 f"A " ta jff
I from a mire crreffnote than the one fll
,- ; hjbed in our Paprr of Thrfdny /off
Mr. Baya R » fa-d. the fubjed of
the prefpnt debate had been so much exhauß
' ' tdbt theaifcMffio" «» had »nderg«ne, that
Z ■ it wtfuld be difficult to touch any of the
,11 points of co.trotfrty tfitftout repeating
!« Something' of tbt remarks s ot^ ent > e "
-men If,' however, he (hould offend m this
v refpe«, he (houti expefl at l«ft the chanty
ie of tbofe who were guilty of the fame tranf
* greffioD. He thought itneceffary inthe hrtt
° [ place to take dotice of the declaration of the
crrnfltman frcra Virginia, the parent of the
, amendment, that he did not design that the
■r measure he proposed, should have an imme
o diate effeft upon our establishment of foreign
rf ministers, but intended OHly to introduce a
J principle whicli fhouldhave a.future operati
; on at a convenient time. If the gentleman
o were fin cere m that declaration, it niuft ne
cessarily follow, that he did not comprehend
h the effeft of his own amendment. For it
' would beremembered that thebill by its own
8 limitation was to continue in force but two
:r years, and if the gentleman's objedt were so
0 distant as he expressed, it cauld certainly
r with no propriety find place in a law so short
„ is its duration as the present. It had been
said that the thi.-d feftion of the bill would
0 admit of amendment so »sto make proviGon
'• for the ministers already appointed;the com-
mittee would obfery* that the third fectioa
was merely it general appropriation of a gross
ie ftnn, and that t&fcfWft to ; which the
'amendment wa9 proposed, was thcone which
_ prefcribed-the manner id which the money
should be applied. I fin the present fe&ion
according to the amendment it {hould be fix
ed that the salaries of ministers plenipoten
,f tiary (hould be allowed only to our ministers
d at Paris and London, it would be immateri
e al what fun was appropriated in the third
feftion, as theje would be no power in the
1 Executives pay the salaries of ministers ple
nipotentiary to our ministers at Lisbon Mad
rid or Berlin even for the current year. He
apprehended that the gentleman from Vir
ginia had been led to his declaration on this
head from brifig pressed with the objedrion,
that if this hoiife afted as he proposed they
would in effeft revoke cxifting. commissions
which had been granted t>y the President.
Some gentlemen affelted to consider the
constitutional right of this house to inter
j fere in the present cafe as not questionable.
A gentleman from Pennsylvania' had stated '
a (bong cafe in order to prove the necessity
of the power belonging to this house. Sup
pose he laid, the President were to appoint
one hundred foreign ministers, would this
house be bound to appropriate for their fup
gJ fallacy
l e power in the executive, which the const;
t- tion does not fuppofe,bct ofi the contrary,
I s presumes thatthe ftrft magistrate will execute
( j his trust with fidelity. But let us consider
ic -the cafe in an opposite ppint of view. Let
it be imagined that this country has a mif
j understanding with some foreign power, and
that the agency of a minister is indispensa
bly necessary to terminate the difference with
out hostility; ta this end, suppose a minister
, appointed by the Executive, and the house
refufe to appropriate for his support. In
this cafe it is plain the power of appointing
a miniftei is taKen from the Executive by
1 this house, though expressly given to' it by
the constitution. The supposition of an a
buse of power if admitted as an argument
and carried to its extent, goes to the deftruc
{ tion of all power; because there is not and
cannot be a power lodged any where, which
is not capable of abuse. Wc might as well
suppose the cafe that the Prefideut fhouldap
point a chimney ftfeeper chief justice of the
supreme court, and then a(k whether this
house would be bound blindly to appropri
ate for his salary. yhecoiiflrtution has trust.
Ed the President as welf'as it/has trusted this
house: the people confide in his discretion
as well as ia that: of the house : and it is no
better argument to juftjfy our usurping ex
r ecu'tite authority that the Prelident may a
, biffc it,' than it vtould be in favour of his
a (fuming legislative power, because it might
be abused by this body.
The appointment and employment of fo
reign agents, from the very nature of our
government belongs to the Executive. This
house has no foreign relations, its only con
nections ore the people on one hand the dif
ferent branches of government on the other,
the conftitntion has not given to it organs
to discern the cases in which foreign agency
is necessary. It has charged the Executive
with the care of the nation in refpeft to the
tranfaftions of foreign powers. The Presi
dent is responsible for the fafety of the coun
try; if he should negleft to give us notice of
our danger from the designs and preparati
ons of foreign powers, he would be answer
able for the neglett. But on this house no
such responsibility rests: and fliall the houff
take front him the means of gaining infor
mation, and theii hold him chargeable for.
the want nf it:
But withduf ; decidisT the point, how far
it lscompetefltforthe-houfe, on constitutional
principles to interfere in th? cafe, there can
be no difficulty in faying, it would not be
expedient for them to do so, at this time.
Atrbaffadors have been ftj'ed by some grave
writers, honorable spies, placid near t > a fo
reign gcvernir.ent to watch its operations,
and to communicate to their own goveru
, went the earlicft inforrv.tion of any proceed
ings which threaten the peace or fafety of
their country. If at any period of time these
spies were necessary, the present state of Eu
rope rendered their eqjplovment indifpeui'a
ble. Surely, when e-vtry principle of anci
ent order is or;rthrowi!j when the nileswhich
nations and individuals were governed by are
no longer regarded, when a fyttem of the
most wicktdand is introduc
ed, when principle and right no longer set
bounds- to power, and independent nations
are uifpofed of by right of the f*vord, it
behoves this government to search with more
than common vigilance and industry into the
designs of powers. Do <u>e
know at this mnmsnt, but these fates are the
fubjeft of foreign negotiation; that the sword
is to cut us into pieces, and lhat we are to t*
dijlributed ps malce weights in the fcaies of conji
penfation? He trusted therefore, it would
be generally thought that this was not tKc
time to talk of recalling our mmfiVrs t'roiji
abroad. The government needs, the fafety
of the nation requires, the best and ipeeidi
eft communication of the schemes of Euro
pean policy.
But some gentlemen are of opinion that
it would te for the interest of the country
to withdraw all our foreign ministers from
Europe, and dissolve the diplomatic connec
tion which at present exists; they conceive
wc have nothing to do with the politicks of
Europe, which expose us to embarrafTments
without promifingany advantage. He said
he might possibly agree with those gentle
men if their objedt could be accomplished
with the facility they imagined. It might
be an easy thing for the United States to re
solve to have no intercourse with Europe,
but can they determine that the governments
of Europe (hall have no views upon them ?
We may avoid fending public ministers or
private agents to Europe, but can we pre
vent Europe from fending them here? We
may have no interest in interfering in Euro
pean politicks, but have they no interest to
interfere in ours: there is no danger from
the views of this country upon Europe, nor
from our fending ministers or agents tWe,
but the danger to be apprehended is from the
designs of Europe upon America, and the
evils we have felt, have arisen from (he in
trigues of foreign agents, not invited, but
imposed upon thecountry. It is idle to talk
about dissolving all conneftion with Europe;
while the ocean is passable there must be a
connexion. He (hould leave it to the vain
declamation of theorists to deprecate the
consequences of this intercourse; but he
(hould irtfift, that nothing was left to us,
but to regulate it in futh a manner, as to a
void its dangers, and secure its benefits: to
this purpose he apprehendedtheemployment
of ministers abroad was essentially necessary.
But is has been urged that the danger of
executive patronage (hould induce us to re
strain the* power of appointing ministers.
This point had been ably handled by other
gentlemen, but in addition he would remark
that in his opinion that so far was the exer
cise of the power of conferring offices in
this country from multiplying the friends
of the President, that he conceived it in
creased the number of his enemies. That
in gratifying one with an appointment, he
disgusted twenty with a refuiaL
Geatlemen have talked ljnueh about
checks. He believed what they said upon
finccre. He believed they
were dii"n«r—>»- • «••••- - •
the executive, until they flopped the wheels
of government. And when he is manacled
and at the mercy of the views
will be accomplished, and they will be fat
isfied. For his part, he thought the exec
utive the infirraeft part of the government,
and that if the constitution was in danger,
it was from its weakness. It is not a con
stitutional idea, that this house is to check I
the President,,- but on the contrary, the
President is placed as a check upon the le
gislature. The reason is plain. The au
thority of the President is defined. Its pre
rogatives are all fpecified. The executive
walk is clearly marked out. It is thus the
constitution effedually checks him. And"
he cannot tranfgrets the limits of his au
thority, without its being palpable to the
eyes of the world. The legislative power
was of a different nature, its field was infi
nitely larger, andi t£e bounds of it not dif
cernable with the fame precision. It w'as
necessary, therefore, to prefvrve the execu
tive, that its powers should in fqme degree,
be shecked by h;s. The gentleman seemed
to imagine, that no disposition to uforp
power could exist in Any branch of the go
vernment, but the executive. Gentlemen
confutted very little the esprit du corps and
the spirit of ambition ever found in popu
lar bodies, in making their conclusion. He
affirmed it was in the nature of a body like
that house to be more ambitious of an en
largement of its power, than an executive
defined like that of ours. The breath of
that house could cast down a President at
any moment, and (hould he trench upon
the legitimate power of the house; his ruin
would be inevitable. Eut rthat can the
President do, if we encroach upon his au
thority ? If the house were determined he
nauft submit with the indulgence possibly of
a feeble remonstrance. It was felt as a
truth that even a minority of this house
can (hake the very foundations of execu
tive power. He was firmly persuaded
the danger which threatened the constitu
tion, was not from the President but from
that house. *
Gentlemen had compared the patronage
of this executive to the patronage of the
crown of Great-Britain ; they might as
well compare the strength of Calvin Phil
lips, to that of the Ir;(l? ginn h . In this coun
try how far did patronage extend ? We
had an army difperfedoverthe United States
of 3 or 4.0C0 men : a navy cf three fri
gates ; a number of coile&ors aud supervi
sors, whose salaries were fufficient to give
them bread. How was the ease in Eng
land. An immense army ; a prodigious na
vy wealthy eftablidiments in the church ;
innumerable posts of honor and profit in .the
law ; an unlimited power of creating no-I
bihty, and of conferring titles and rank ; 1
i and, in addition, an allowance for a civil
lift of near amillion iter", a year. Can any
rational companfon be made between an in
fluence flowing from these sources of pow
i er, and the patronage of our executive.'
An executive whof*^,
perhaps fuffieicnt to furnilh I,; ° Wance »
patronage of the Enerlifl, L„ ,m^nf e
-was his opinion, if the prinliplT'T" 1 ' *
reprefentat on were introduced 9,081
ular branch, the monarchy wo.,M P op "
exist, because it wonld no[ be ah! T 25
the weight and power of th ta Je6ft
Gentlemen fa/the
" t,,be c "t down, because m e " P rf
options are excluded from oS«
TwTfc 9 • t0 h ' m upon th; » P°i»t a's Z' 7
wfcknotf our principles are such that'™ 8 '
have no chance of fenn n «> 1 """
therefore not fufTtr the St' Wai
point any body ell Tt '0 ap.
Georgiahad expreffed great fmnr.W it I
>ng this defended as a principle of th
ccutive. But he asked whX, t£ '
pie was not supported by the bed
.in the country. J s ; t not t > . .thonty
on which tjpeopl, U P"
i themselves aft ? Do they ever cKo
i ' efenta . dve9 of *al sentiments diffeSt
from, their own ? None would fay thev
None could deny this to be their princfpl
If he or the gentleman opposite totim held
dillercnt political tenets it ; c
that either as them would hav P
their pre fen t places. Now f C a Ppeared in
who fay they adore the voice of
to reprobate so indecently a pri„ c D W P '
verfally. adopted by tb«£ JKftS
to h,m ether confiftert with with oth
selves The W' 0 the P"* tkbS
• MJ' si, • m must therefore be
juftified m following an example set by the
t w;ll , has himj and
ought therefore to d.reft him. If he ha.
ever deviated from this principle, the con.
feqences have convrnced him of his error
And he hoped that, profiting by hit
nenrr, -rtollfltt- Whduft would be avoided
in future.
Before he concluded he would be-J eavc
to fay a word on the fubjedt of the appoint,
ment to Lilbon. .
The gentleman from PennfyWania had in
finuated that when the gentleman appoint,
ed advocated the appropriation for a rninif
ter to .the court mentioned, he knew tint '■
the place was designed for himfelf. This
insinuation was repelled by direst proof •
and the gentleman from Pehnfylvania had
since fa id that his charge was notagainft
the minister but the President. The ap
pointment, fays the gentleman, is uncon
stitutional. He thought thatafter the fcru.
pulous delicacy with which the President
construed the constitution, in a ease where
a personal interest presented itfelf, a charge
of this kind ought not to be rathly made.
The constitution difqualifiej a member of »
either house to accept an office treated, or
the emoluments of which were encreaftd
during .the time for which they were chof.
en. N»w the office of minister plenipoten
tiary exists under the constitution, and is
coeval with i*. The allowance has beck
.fixed neatly as long as the office has existed.
And therefore there is no ground tp fyy
it was created, or us tuioiuincm* £ifc7Ja(£Q,
tst which the gentleman
from South-Carolina was chosen.
Mr. B. concluded with declaring, that
every view of th e fubjea would induce him
to give the amendmenc hit decided negative.
( Debate to be continued.)
FRIDAY, JANUARV 26.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the cotnmiues
of claims, made a report on the amendment
of the Senate to the bill for placing certain
pevfoas on the Pension lift, an agreement to
which was recommended to the house, and
concurred in. The bill was reported as d»- f
ly enrolled.
Mr. Champlm presented the petition of
Jofiah Wood, praying for csmpenfation for
grain taken from him by the'army in the
war. Referred to the committee ef claims.
Mr. Pinckney reported a bill making an
appropriation of a sum of money to defray
the expence ofho'ding a treaty with the In
dian 3 claiming land in the ftateof Tennessee
which was committed for to day.
The house resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole upon it j but on motion of
Mr. Gallatin wbo wilhed to introduce a
feiSion, whirlj Jm»A—pixyared,
for fixing the falavy of the Commissioners,
the committee rose and had leave to lit a
gain.
The house again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the bill provid--
ing the means of Foreign Intercourse; when
Messrs Goodrich and Sewall spoke again!
Mr. Nicholas's motion. The committe#
had leave to fit again.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHSETTS,
January j 7.
The ANSWER OF THE SENATE
TO THI
GOFER NOR'j SPEECH.
May it plsafeyour Exeellency,
The senate of Maflachufetts receive *'irh !!»e
---ly fat'ufaflion your Excellency*! communica
tions to the legifljtare : We sincerely rejoice
with you and eur fellow-citizens at larye, on
the completion of this public edifice, combining
elegance with utility, and canUitutiug a difiin
guilhed 01 nament of the metropolis, wbtfe jn
habitanlsueneroufly provided (heplacean which
it is creOSed.
We view with p'eafure this monument of
puhl'c spirit, so honorahh; to the Comrmw
wei!th : As it well sccordi with the general
"profyerity of our eonSiruents, and is the
leitc mrum on the iriHuifry, (kill and fidth'ty of
<Hofe wiio planned and executed th* work.
Her may we and our fiiccellort at sfl timrs
cher'fh a fc.licitude forihe public welfe r ;» iru '
a warm attachment/to our country : ?n this
house, may the true principles of civil irnf rei ' -
e -er be *igjit!y underftoodand firmly f pport
ed : And God forbid that foreign inSience or
internal commotion Ciould cer eadangtr t.;e
txiflenee of our free republic.
I .ti*
tinguift.ed asa peopled.' m our gratcfuU'iirii')«-
lcdgemrnts to Heaven From the lo« of oni<r
and fubmifmm to the hv.s. from the jaw"
iufiirmation, as well a< frorri the v rfw,
prize an industry of Our fellow e-' *¥'< v J ". l ,
theconfcqutfri diSbfioo of propftv.
Hp for the c«r.tinuit.-ce of theft blrfcz 4 -\W fir rr» ! v regret with yau, rue c.-k.-j
arteCof thfwar with Europe;
mav furniih pretexts for many ur.juftinab'e tie- j
prrdations on our commerce.
The citizens of the United States irden'ly j
: wife for peace and a good utiJcrftanding with ;
all nation*, from- considerations worthy a free ,
arid enlightened people, a dOc eftimatiun of the j
calamities of war, and ofthe bleflings of peace ;
Bat while they refpeft therightsofother govern
oients, they will be faith.' ut to their own.
It is our fervent wi(h, that the differences
which exist hetween the U»ited States and the
French Republic may be amicably fcttlirfl tin
jufl »nd honorable term*. % This imp- rtmt sub- i
jett we are sensible, with other national ccn.-ernt,
belongs to the general government ; whsfe pro--
ceedings at this intereitmg crisis. we doubt n-U
will biimirked with wifdoin arid firmneiV As
in that government w£ have the highest confi
dente, so we fee! ourselves bound by every so
cial and moral obligation, at all times to support
its meafurei.
Wi'h great fatisfadtinn we learn, that with
out any .addition to the usual taxes, all demands
tipon the Commonwealth may be discharged,
and that a considerable furplas will then remain
in the treasury.
The fcveral matters recommended by your
.Etcettency to the eonfiderafion of the legiflj
• ture, lhall receive our early attention. To as- i
ford fectwity to our rights, and remeiiis for tihe
wrong? rtfour conftitiients ; to jjivc en-rgy to
ihe laws, and refpe<flahi)ity to the government, !
will be the important of our I
Hons : Reiling afTured ol your excellency's con- j
clirfenee in all fach measures as 'hall be calcu
lated to; promote the public welfare.
' ■ i.f E* iiihim ' uJ" <w f m ■» »' **>•"*
X!je oasette*
-•.• . ' ?
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUART 17-
ARTICLES
B*iii&Hed bvtbettou r eof Rep!efeutafWer of the U
Q\ud &ste«. i* -«>
the oeonleof the United Sates, ajjainfl WILLI.iM
BLOUNT* in maintenance of their I'mpeachincSai
agaiaft. him for High Crimes and Mifdenwonois ;
ARTICLK 1 i*
That, whereas rhc United Stjtes, in thc-'rnoqths of
yebruaiy, March, April, May and. fane, intheyfar
of* our Lord one thousand seven hundred and nirjety
feven, and for many year* ihen nift, ar peace
with his Catholic Majesty, the King of Spajn; and
whereas during the months aforefaid, his said Catho
!{p Mnjfflty and the King of Great Britain were at w?r
with each other; yet the said William Blount, on or
aboil' the months aforefaid, then being a Senator fcf
tJie United Statea, and well knowing the premises,
bat disregarding thedu ies and obligationaof his high
ftatton, and designing and intending to diflutb the
peace and 'ranquiiity of -the United States, and to ?io
hre and infringe the neutrality thereof, did-confpire,
and contrive to create, promote, and set on foot, with
in the territery and jurisdiflion of the United States,
and to cortduftand carry on, from thence, a military
hostile expedition again ft the territories and domini
ons of his said Catholic Majesty in the Florida* and
Louisiana, or a part theieof, for the purpofeof wreft
iftg the fame from His Catholic Majesty, and of con
• quering ih« flipe far the king or Great Biitain, with
whom his jfaid Catholic Maie;iy v was then at war, con
trary to thp fluty and trail of his Ration as a Senator
of the United States, in violation of the obligations
• of neutralitv, arid against the 'lfcws *>f the United
States, and the peace and interests thereof.
i • ARTICLE 11.
Ttfat, whereas on the twenty-seventh day of Ofto
** tier, in the year of our lord one thousand fevrn hun
-1 tired And nir>«Mn-fivc, a treaty of fiiendfttip, lira its
and.navigation had been made and concluded between
Biwfo— *IMU ■M«jLHyy-*»y r t>e
fifth article whereof it js stipulated v.nA "rha;
" 3 **HHe two Higli parties fha',!, Wj al. the
•• means io-rhiei-r powei. maintain peace and harmony
among the several Indiau nations who inhabit the
'* country adjacent to the lines and l ivers, whiehy by
ct the preceding ancles, form the bourula ies ol the
tw6 Florida?, And the better to obtain this efTeft,
" both parties themfeives exp cfsly to r eftmn
li . by force ail hoftni»i<sor* the pa it of hr'lndian na
'* tions living virriiu their j o that 6pajn
44 will not I'uffot her Indian# to attack ibd ctf
■'** the Uni'ed Stated, no: the fiul a«;s inhabiting their
territoty . wiH the XJniitd S 2ie»i permit
4t lad imenno'v d Indians to cotnm«!< c* utilities a
-41 gaintl the fubjefts of his Cathode M?jefty or hisln
«'dMns. in Mtiy manner whatever ."—Yet the said
Wniiam hlouM, .vi ar about the iniM '<s of February.
T March, April, u June, in Lite yfcar of oar
Lord one tn«ufe*uv f«ven hundred and ninety-lcvert,
then being * Sci»t'T oi, ibe United-Stales,"and well
knowing-cne ptemties, a>id th«»t tne said United States >
were then at peace with his said CVholic Maj-.itv, and
that his Catho ic N was at w*( with he King of
Great-lintain. but the duL.e:; of his high •
Oation, and the ftipulaiwns of the said treaty, aud
the obligations of neu rality, did conVoire and con
trive to excite the Creek and Cherokee na Sottfc In
dians, then inhabitu»g within the territr tul bo' <id«-
ry of the Ufctud States, to commence bolHii yss a,~
tbf and ot his Catholjc Xla
jffty, *n the F/ortdas and Louifvaii«v tor purpf ie
of reduejng the <ame to the dominion od the King of
(Treat- Britain, with whom his-CathoVic Majesty w>s
then at war as aforefaid ; contrary to the duty of his
tflfift ar.d station is a 'the Ifni.ed in
Y 6f tllg r«iO mail «»* 'si it miJli)
navigation, and of ihe obligations of neU.r*4i[y, aud
against the laws of the United Stales, and the peace
and interests thereof.
/KTICLE 111.
That, the ordinances 2nd aflsof Con
grtfa for regulating 1.-ace ard in'errou/lc v.lth the In
dian tribes and *or pretcrviog pe : -ce on the frontiers,
it hat been made lawful for the Prefidem of the Unit- I
ed in order to ensure the c®ntinuante,cf the (
fticodfhip of the said Indian tiibes, to ippo ut such
. per Ton*, from time to time, as temporaiy agents, to
reside among the Inditoi, as he shall think fit; and 1
whetfas, in purluanccof the said euihority, the Pre- <
fident of the United Slates, on or about the eighth
day at September, in the year of ot>r Lord one 'hou
fand se v en hundred and winety-ftx, cftd appoint Beri- '
jimin Hawkins to be p iocipal temporary agent for 1
Indian affairs, within the Inoian nations south of the ]
riverOhtQ, and north of the territorial line of the-U- 3
nited States: and whereas the said Benjamin Hawkins '
accepted the said appointment, and onthetwenty-6rlt '
day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand (
seven huodtedand mneiy-feven, and tor a long time
before and sfterwaids, did cxerci-fe t!»e funSioru, r
powers and duties attached to the fame,'yet the 'aid
William Blount, on or about the said twenty-fi'ft a
day of' * pri 1, in the year of our Lord one thousand t
seven hundred and ninety-leven, then being a Senator /
of the Usittd Statea, and well knowing the premi' i |
did, in the prosecution of his criminal design- and of a
his conspiracies atorefaid, and the more effectually to I
accomoliih his intention of exeitif g the Crr> k and [
Clierr kee nations of !rti»iu to <roinmence holtilities
agaivft thu fnbjefts of his Catholic Majesty, iurther k '
conspire and conttive to alienate and divert ihecnr.fi. rV
denre of tlfc laid Fndian ir bes or na ifflns from the 'J
said Benjamin Hawkirs, the principal temporary agent ■ ,
aforefaid, and to diminish, impair, and deftioy the :
■nflufocc of the said Benjamin Hawkins with the iaid j
Ina an tribes, and tfieir friendly "inteteourfe and un- ' ti
derPKndini; with him; ccr.trary to the duty of his ; f £
trult and lianon js aSe,ator of the Ur.iteJ Stat », and J i
agtinftthe ordinances and laws ot the United itatts, I v
and the peace and irnereils there's. TO
ARTICLE IV. OI
That, whereas"by the ordinances and a<3s of f r
congress aforefaid, it is madeUwful for the Pre
sident of the United States to enabliih tracing
hotilV? at such places and pofls on the weflern B , n
and fourhern frontiers, or in the Indian .country,
as he shall judge most convenient lor.carrying- pti
a liberal trar*e with the I'ev'er.il In.;Un nations •) so;
within the limits of the Unitsd St.'t s. to ; Ft
appoint an agent at each tri.'in;j hc.tife tjdabiifh- I
• j i*(l*» iforcfij J, with fu. h cierks fnd afiiflanti as
t i may I>< tieceflary for the execution of thefiid
- i a'As ; ami whereas, l»y a. ri eaty nude and eon-
J chiSH ~ ifie feioml day of Jul?; In the yearjif
■ j our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ni,ie
• • ty-one, between the United States and the Che
: , r okee nations of lndiapj, fuhahiting within the
; j limits of the United States, it »« fiipulated and
. agiee.l " that the United States will fend such
- and so many perf ns to refije in said nation as
t tliey mayjudge proper, not exceeding four, who
t (hall qualify themlelvejto a<ft a» interpreters" ;
; and wiiereas the freQdent of the United States,
i | as well in purfuanee ofthe author! -iss in this ar
- i ticle mentioiird, as ofthe aifl< -of Congrefare
, I fcrned tg in the third article, did appoint Ja'Oes
• Carey to l>e interpreter for the United Si»t-s
to the fait! Cherokee nation of Indians and afiift
i ant at th'f public trailing house eftabtifh;J ,»t the
"lellico Blockhoufc in the state of TennefTee ;
a»d whereas the said James Carey did jeeebt rht
said lppointmeots, and on the twenty firlt day
of April in the year of our Lord one
. seven hundred and ninety fe en, and for a loi«g
i time before and afterwards, did txertife the
, funiflions and duties attached to the fame; yet
i the said William Blount, on or about the said
twenty-firft day'of April, in the year lift afofe
- said, then being a Senator of the Uiaited Stats,
i. aad well knowing the premises, did, in profe
| etition of his criminal dellgns and in furtherance
; of hi- conspiracies aforefaid, conspire and con
> trive to seduce th« said Jam's Ca ey from the
, j duty and trust of his said appointments, ar.d'to
■ | cn g'g° the laid James Carey to jffift in the pro
- motion and execution of '.is said criminal ioten
. ' tions and afrrefaid ; contrary to the j
duty of hi* tru'f and station as a Senator of the
r United States, and ugainft the laws and treaties*
" ; of the United States, and the peace and interests
; thereof.
ARTICLE v.
That, whereas certain tribes or nations of In
dians inhabit within the territorial limits of the
United States, between whom, or many of lh;m,
and the settlements sf the United States, certain
boundary lines have, by fucpeffive treaties, been
stipulated and agreed upon, to separate the lands
, and pofleffions ofthe said Indian.-,from the'Unda
iiofTeffi ons of tiieUiiitM States and citizens
j th'reof ; and v.-hereai, particulifly, by
t the last anicle meutiontd to have b>en
■•aide with the Cherokee natiofe, on the'fecond
day of in th«year of onr Lord one thousand'
f feyen. hundred and ninety-ene, boundary
' line between the United States and the Chero
kee nation was agreed and defined ; and it was
J ftirther flipttlated that the fanie should be ascer
tained end ntirked plainly by three persons ap
r pointed on the part of the United States and
r three Cherokees on the part of their nation ;
f and whereas, by another treaty, made with the
, said Cherokee.uation on the twenty-sixth day of
i June in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
: hundred and ninety-four, the said herein before
■ recited treaty of the fecotid day of July ,in the
' year of our Lord orie thousand seven hundred
and ninety-one, was cbnfirmecl andeftaSliihed,
' f and it was mutually agreed that the said- boun
dary line (hould be. adlually ascertained and
I marked in the manner prelcribed by the faidlift
- mentioned treaty : And whereas, in purfuanee
- of the said treaties, comraiffioners were duly
1 nominated and appointedon the part of the U
nited States, to ascertain and mark the laid beun-
daryline; yet the said William Blotint, on or
[ about the twenty-firft day of April in the year
of our Lard one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, then being a Senator of the Unit
. Ed States, and well knowing the, prenjifei; in
further profecutfen of his said criminal designs
i i and of Ws (Sonfpirtcies aforefaid, and the more
| eifeflually to accomplish his intention of eAfiit-.
ing the said Indians to commence hostilities a
iti ufittn catholic majesty, did
further c*nfpire and contrive to diminish and im
. pair the confidence of the said Cherokee nation
in the government of the United States, and to
create and foment difcontenis and dilaffeilion
among the said Indians towards the government
of the United States in relation to the afcertain
mer.t and mai king of the said boundary line
; contrary so the duty aiid trust of his station as a
-senator of the United States, and against the
peace and interests thereof.
An.d the House of Representatives, by pro
, favingto themselves the liberty of ex
hibiting, at iny time hereafter, any further arti
cUs, or impeachment, against
the said William Blount, and a!fo of replying
to hi- answers which he shall make unto the said |
articles, or arry of them, and of offering proof to '
►all and ever.v the afo.-ef.id articles, and to all
and every other articles, impeachment, or ac
cufatien, which (hall be exhibited by them, as
thr cafe stall requi-e, to der.iand that the said
.William Blotint may be put to answer the said
crimes and mildemeannrs, and that such pro
ceedings, rxaminations, trials and judgments,
ijny be thereupon had and given as are agree'a
blf ljqlav/andjuftlce. .
SCIPIO—No. XV.
IT was on the authority of Tom Paine,
that I aflerted that be-certainly rtfided with
Mr. Monroe at Paris in theyear 1795, when
he two letters to President Waftiing
ton, and probably he was there when he
wrote a tliird, dated joth July, 1796
The two former are dated 22d February
and 20th September 1795, apd in the last
are to be found the following sentence»,
" After the Robtfpierrian members of the ,
committee were removed, by the expiration
of their time of ftrving, Mr. Monroe re
claimed me and 1 was liberated the 4th of ;
November." Immediately upon my libera-' 1
tion Mr. Monroe invited me to his house, 1
where I remained more than, a year, and a J
half, and I speak of his aid and friend/hip- 1
as an open hearted man will alw.ays do iu 1
such a cafe with refpeft and gratitude.— 1
(Page 25 of the letter.) t
T hough the year is not exprefled when '
Tom Paine was liberated, it wa-6 in 1794,
as will appear by Mr. Monroe's letters, da' '
te<J Ift Nov. 1794 and '3'h J anu ary, 1795 1
(page 100.) As then he rtfided more than t
a year and a half from the 4th November t
1 794 house of the American minis- a
ter, he was certainly there in FebruaVy and t
September 1795, and most probably in JJu t
,|y 1796 when the last letter was wriuen.— t
The firft mentioned of tjiefe letters, it it a
true, when it was shewn to Mr. Monroe was
deiircd to be recalled, which was for that n
time accordingly done, but was afterwards it
sent in 1796. More than 15 months after F
the date of this letter, Tom Paine was per- ei
mitted to live with the American miuider as V
one of his family upon terms of familiar le
friendfllip, instead of which treatment he k
ought to have been instantly shewn the tloor lei
and forbid his house. In it he reproached at
the Prefidei.t for not interposing Jiis e'xerti- o]
to obtain his liberation from the impri- cc
"inmettt infiided by the ruling p .w'er of d,
France, which lie attributed wholly to his er
kfire to keep him at a diftahce from the U- or
"*j> t»i;ed" bi'caufe (u's h# fay„) the pre
l"l fence of a man who might disApprove of the
r } .administration, and who had credit enough
uie- 'J's co'dutry to he htard and believed,
he- w as not widled " In it he inveighed also a
ihe gainst the proclaraation. of neutrality and
ind cenfurcd the conduct of Mr. Jay in his ne
jch gociation and lome other step» of the Exe
cutive-
,» . The letter of thi 20th September 1795,
les, ' s con cise, impudent, insolent, infamous.
ar - In this he demanded copies of whatever the
ri - President had written refpe&inj him, either
Oes in hi 3 public or private letters, and conclu
ded in the following wMr3»i, " v lcujght not
the to S,e ys'i of treachery, but
;e . whether I recover from (he ijj 115(3 I now fuf
the f cr or nor > I fia'l continue to think you
jay ; treacherous till you giff canfc to think
ia«J : otherwjle.i lam fureyou would have found
)fc S : yourfeli" more at your cafe, had you afted
, by me as you ought. ? for whether yqiir de
: fertion of me was intended to gratify. the
ire _ Engiifli government, or to let tne fall into
t, s> j dcltru&iou in France that you might
>fe- claim the.louder again ft t,hs French revolt
nee I tion ; or whether you hoped by my extifidli-*
! on to meet with, less oppoijtion in mounting
11 up the American government, either of these
ro _ 1 will involve you in reproach you will not
; easily (hake off." Let it be remembered
the j that Tom Paine when he wrote this letter
the ' had resided almost a year under the roof of
o' 8 " the American minister, was then resident
"' ls under the fame roof, ?nd for many months
afterwards continued to rt-fide there.
j n . The last letter of Tom Paine to President
the Wafhingtoii is dated 30th July 1796, when
■m, mod probably he was ttill enjoying the
ain friendly hofpiulity of the American m.iujf
e^ n ter. it coufiits of, jipwards df fifty pages
Cl , s ! and comprehends ihg tvyo former which are
, s ! made parts of it t hqee letters were
•da - | to the Editor bf;f%4jwora, the libel
een printer against the late President and his
Wid.| ntcaiures, aij4 tj»e friend of the American
lr, d : tninifter, in order that they rpight be pub
afy j lifhed. Some e»tra£ts may be seen in the
| Aurora I believe, and the whole in a pam
,cr. phlet which was printed by bim in the fall
ap. of J796, when the minds of our citizens
md were drawn to the choice»o£ a fucceflbr to
,n ; the President of the United States who had
the previously publiftied his determination to re
' 0 tit;e. It is well known to every body that
orf in the contest at the late ele£iion for Prefi
the dent, the real political question to be deci
ded ded was whether the Wafhingtonian system
ed, of administration (hould b® continued or
u»- not, which system was too independent to
'"<j be pleasing to France. The French Re
nce f lc was intent on raising to the helm Mr.
~ly Jefferfon, who was deemed by it, and as
U- appears since from Jiis reputed letter to Maz
m- zei wasjuftlydeemed,hoftile to that political j
or system, if not to the comftitution itfelf of
tal " the United States. The following is an
extract from this almost iocredible but ever !
memorable letter to Majizei. ««, Our politi- |
, ns cal Situation is prodigiouily changed since I
jre you fcft us. Instead of that noble love of
;ifr-. liberty ftvLt&ot republican government, which
a- carried us triumphantly thro' the dangers
I,d of the war, an anglo-monarchico-arjftocra
™~ tic party,has arisen.. Their avowed obje&ii to
to on us substance, as they, hkveal
on ready given us the form of the.British gov
:nt ernment,&c.'' The only important change
in- of government to whiph the writer alluded,
e : was from the old confederation to theprefent
conjiitution, which is like (as he fays) to the
British government, and is not republican.
Of course he cannot be expected to love or
x _ revere it, but to hate it, if this is his real
ti- opinion of our constitution.
This letter also adds, " it is fofHcient that
we guard ourselves and that we break the
j | 1 lilliputian ties by which they have bound us
a ll in the firft (lumbers which succeeded our la- j
lc _ boiirs." What does this mean ? What are
as the Lilliputian ties which the author means, j
id As I conceive, the ties of the conftitntion, !
•'d and none else can be understood. Moreo- j
ver, the letter fays, " we have against us |
; ' the Execativepower, the judiciary power, aIL
the officers of government, and all who are j
seeking offices, all timid men. Need it be
alked who is or can. be jneant ;by the Exe
ne_ cutive power, but the President of the U
th nited States. In (hort.whatjdoes this fen
;n tence mean but that the wjiole adminiftrati
g. on, the President, tjye judges and all the o
ae ther officers are opposed to republican gov- 1
_ ernment and attached to njouarchy and are 1
ry ready to destroy the liberties of America. 1
ft Lastly, the writer obferyes, "it fuffices that 1
1, we arrest tfce progress of that system of in- 1
le gratitude arid injustice towards France fro.m i
1D which they would alienate lis, to bring ug 1
e- under Bntilh influence, &c." I (half not i
,f permit rhyfelf to comment on these passages 1
». of the letter to Mazzei. But Ido not now 1
bcfitate to 'fay that 1 believe, and that it is <
a generally believed, that this letter was writ- f
p. ten by Mr. Jefitrfpn. If genuine, it sure- <
ii -ly proves that the expeaations of France c
_ were well founded. For a Jong time before 1
the elefticn all Frenchmen, all American de- t
n mocrats, and all malcontents had fixed cn li
him to succeed to the Presidential autho- c
rity and had made this the grand obje<S of h
> their political pursuits. From localaixlo- v
n ther considerations, many of our good ci- o
r tizens were disposed to favor his eleftioß
- also, at that time believing him more at- 0
1 tached to the constitution and less opposed
- to the Wafhingtonian ajdininiftration, than
- tl\ey are now from iaformation
1 authorized to believe. ' ' S
9 To promote the ele&i'on of this gentle. R
t | man, all means were, it is belfeved called
s into aftiou, which were in the pgwer of the
r French republic. From this cause proceed
• ed the letter of Tom Paine to President e,
1 Wa(hingtbn, to which I have referred, a m
• letter that is become very notorious, and is ic
known by the appellation of the infamous ! jj'
letter of Tom Paine: It made its appearance : fj,
at a time when it might impress the public .ai
opinion ngainft man who wished for a th
contirfoande of the system on which Prefi
deflt Walhington had admjniltered the gov- m
ernment. Soon after this, other publicati
on 3 of the lame tendency were niadt; nor was pj
t
•«..i? • • f
re* say tune thought so suitable for Mr. Adct
he to publish the angry mam'fefto of the French
gh republic, as when, in the ftatc of Pennfyl
<i, vania the people were about to give tiicir
a- votes for WeiSors of the Prefideutof the U
t«d nited States. It was on the votes of this
estate, which, from tfir operation of the law
e- were almost certain of bei.ig all on the fame
fide, that the ele&ion was supposed to de
5, pend. That the manifesto had a sensible ef
is. feft on fotxe of the inhabitants of our city
ae of the focicty of friends, is not to be doubt
er ed.
» :
J " In this letter I'om Paine declares him
felf '' opposed to almost the whole of his
(Wafhington's) adminiftration,and ptomifes
tn prove it to have- been iificient.ifnot pcrfi* j
, U dious, as well as unjult in refpeclto Fiance." ;
This is what Mr. Monroe in his book does
j in substance undertake to prqve : This too
is the opinion w.hieh is contained in the let
ter to Mazzei; and this is the charge that
e the French republic, by her functionaries
0 has often repeated. That the people (hould
believe that this charge is well founded, and
t j v that their confidepce and affeftion were
misplaced in their former President, is dee-
hied an important preliminary, to the fuc-.
cess of their plan of bringing about 3, change
a( j in the present administration, and perhaps
in the constitution. Some of the writers
avow this fentiinent in terms, and
t Tom Paine declares his wiflt to change the
l is constitution in some inftauces which are
mentioned in the letter.
Nt Upon the political topieks whieh are em
rn braced in Tom Paine's letter, it must be ob-
He served that his opinions are cenfonant with
if- those of Mr. Monroe on the fame fubje&s as
ss they arcexprelfed in his letter and narrative,
re The similarity of"ideas, aiid in a few inftan
re ces of expressions, is f> striking that the
■]- reader woirtd naturally believe that the two
is authors held a free communion of ienti- N
Jn ments with each other, while they lived uti
b- der the fame roof. As it would be tedious
xe to make quotations to prove this, I ftiall
n- rely on the candor of those who (hall read
ill both, for the accuracy of the remaik i nor
is shall I quote from the letter the many op
:o probrious and slanderous expressions which
id ruii throughout it, and which call forth the
e- indignation of every honest man in every
at quarter of the world : But as I have ad
fi. verted to the patronage afforded by Mr.
i- Monroe, in his own house, to Tom Paine,
m for the space of more than eighteen months,
)r while he was there writing insolent letters
;o to President Walhington, to be commum
:• cated through the medium of Bache's Au
r. rota, designed to injure the reputation of
u the President, to promote the views of the
5 . French republic in regard to his successor ;
al ; to strengthen the French faftion among us,
>f i (hake the confidence of the people in 'all
in those who approve and supported theWa(h
---:r ingtonfyftesi.fromaconvidtionthat it was the
i. ( wisest and best for the common happiness, -I
e ! must not, cannot forbear to present to-public
if confiderbtioß the last paragraph of that most
h infamous letter, from this (ample well, may
rg be imagined the reft. It is as follows,"thi»
a- is the ground upon which Ametipa now
;o stands. All her rights of commerce and
]. navigation have to commence anew, and that
j. with the. loss of charafter to begin with. If
p e there 13 sense of shame enough left in the
1, heart to call a blu(h into the cheek, the
Waftiiugton administration must be afliamed
le to appear—and as to you, Sir, treacherous
j. in private friendfhi'p (for so you have been to
r lne , and that, in the day of danger) and a
d hypocrite in public life, the world will be puz
zled to decide whether yon are an apostate
or an impostor; whether you have abandon
e ed good principles, or whether you ever had
s any }" Who would have thought it peffible
. J that the author of this paragraph was the
e companion of the American minister in his
I, ; own house at Paris? It has been proved, and
, : who can deny it after reading the proofs?
- 1 In addition to the instances of mifconduft
s | in his ministry which have been ipe'cifie<2& in
I, aggravation oft.hera,Mr. Monroe while A
e j merican minister is proved to have been the
e patron of Tom Paine the libel writer, and
. the confidential friend of Bache the libel
. printer, against the President and his ad- j
. ministration.
From the single motive of doing good,
- I have submitted. my view of our late mi
• nifter's conduft, arifiug principally from the
s doepments which he has publilhed. Oug't
. the patron of Tom Paint, ought the friend
t ps Bache, ought the man who had coinmitt
- ed the afts of mifcondud to which I have
1 adverted, ougbt the man who pofleffed
the confidence of the opposition party
r in this Country and of the French Ru
-3 lers which he endeavoured to acquire by his
r subserviency, ought the man wlio paid more
; deference to the judgment of the French 1
■ fa&ion which probably coincided with his 1
own, than to the opinions and sentiments 1
orf your President. Ought such a man to
: have been continued as minister of the Uni- \
ted States to the Fren« h republic ? Ought ,
his associates in politics any longer to be
countenanced. Ought they not all be a- t
bandoned as insidious enemies to the public !
weal, to the union, felicity and independence \
of these United States.
N. B. In no 14, feftion 8, at the word
objedts, ends the ferttenee.
Married last Thursday evening,. Mr.
Samuel Yorke, merchant, to Miss Ma- "
RY Lippincott, both of this city. r
We ?re teM hy a gent rm3n just- from Hjvre- '
Ue-Grace, that the t iver . c ufquehanr.a, at the low- °
er ferry which is near its p ooth, isinthemofl
e vtraordinaiy fityation ever n'rhaps in the
memory ci n'.an 011 the iats fcrtaking up of th<-
ice, an immetilc quantity ftoppid on in
I tlowii tl e riv»r in the mentioned, an<l formed a _
| btrrk of ice of confxkT»M< height from (her-to
fliore, f*u which foot p fTeigcr; cross with lafety
'.althrugb the furfp.ee ii exrretjifcly ui even, and 1
there are narfow filfures or openings to the
water It is foppofed by torae t':»t the ice reftn t
in places on the bottom of the river; t r», hrv/ei ']
Vt-r, not likely, a , the water in thit pjrt. it ii
to he a 5 feet eep.—' he dehver and receive -
pj.T itjjers with their ba g»?e an eichfijt n usual ,
f 11 -**-. v ■ lI.A-h. >t,><r»p ■ m&
ft A——»———il—i—« rfww r
| l $3" '/A* &7/f of tbj G)ods faieil
~ //•(?« the wreck of the fhrp John, ai\
j. ucrtifed for Sale this day, is pojifofc
u ed on account of the weather to Wtd
■v nefday next the 3 1fl infl.
I NEV/-theatr]L '
y jjP The paWic are re'peJtfnl'y informed tin!
■- aft-a this evening, (lie Ope* will lie laid slide#
on account ,at.fi>m« new pieces in preparation.
THIS EVENING,
|, JANUARY 37,
s Will beprefewcU (for the tijiid time here), i
COMIC Oi'EK A, in three a,?lf, called
!,* Abroad and at Home ;
g on, A TOUR IN TIIE KING'S KENCIL
After which (tor that niglir only), wiii be reviV*
D ed, the favorite Pafitchvmc fnterttiiniiunt;
comprcfled into me adl, of
c s Robinson Gruioe,
OR, FRIDAY'* LELIVERANCS.
e aMnfnal Farce, in two ails, never peiiormed
in /tinn i'-a, palled, Hnnr the > : ipper.
BAlX!
Mr. Byrnes fourth Ball will be on
* day evening next 30th Jan. at Oeilers'a
Hotel. Gsntlemens'tickets at one dollar
e each, to be had at the Hotel. Ladies'
e tickets to be had of Mr. and Mrs. Byrtie,
No. 114 North 6th Street.
Tuition as usual.
; J an - 2 ? • , 3 l
1 Pursuant to the last Will and
s Testament of Jos. Henfzey, d*cea£cd, will be ■l
- t« pnelicfal- at the M. rcham'Coftce
Houf', in i-econd Ureet, oa Wednef'ay, ih«3t*
a inft. at 7 u'.lock in the cvet. 1:1
A VALU-Bi.E I.OT or piece «f erotind £tu*
atei 00 the Weil si le of Delaware" Fipth llreet,
*n beginning at the corner of Lombard and'
■ o-teiidinr lu.rtbward 8•. feci, thenct we-'ward 90
s feet, and- northward 4c fset, to an eight feet wide
U alley, tlier.ce elor.g the fa id til ley n-eOw-r.! 98 feet
, to a so feet Tride alley, called Blackberry alley,
thence extending fcy the raid alley itt feet, (o
r Lombard street, and e.iUvvard by the f.id fireet
- 188 feet to the place »[ beginning. Thefituation
!l this lot is pleasant and in an improving part of
e the city (a large three (lory br;ck maVaage of
48 feet in front, having been lately finiflied imme
f diateJy apposite) it has four fronts, and 'may be
- convenient!) divided int. ten building lots, f.om
■. 20 to 22 feet in front, which will readily yield the
, purchaser an annual income of dpllars or more
at the customary price for lots near the fame fitua
' tion
s Also a twoftory frame messuage or tenement and
- lot or piece of ground, situated on the wed fide of
Blackberry a'ley, containing in breadth on the said
f a l- e y 4 l feet, and in length or depth j8 feet.
There h a frame £able on the back part of the lot.
One yearly rent charge of forty (hillings, iffuiug
> out of a lot or piece of ground situated in Artilie
, ry Lane-(in the Northern Liberties) on which is
1 erected a brick, meliTuage.
Alfoone other yearly rent charge of jl.ilTuing
out of a lot or piece of ground situated in Duke
(treet (commonly called Artillery J.ane) on which
1 i« ere<fled a frame me flu age.
c Also, 200 acres of land, situated in the connty
I ? f WeOmoreland. in the Hate of Pennsylvania, Ir.
f 4: d<)rutio 'i Mrnbtr
eiTlj<so, patented in 1786, b.unied east by kts
119 and 120, south byijoi, weft by 1281, n»rth
r by 1*99,
ff°' on< m ' l, tar T land warrant for ico scree-.
t Likcwife, a vary valuable lot or piece of ground
f 3 ,hr ec story commodious bri k houf; and
. V" ame kifhen. situated on |the east fide of Second
I a r £ et r /f" Schu r lki ". ana north fide of Race cr
- oallatras ure:t, containing on Seeond (Ireet im
1 feet, ar.d on SafTafras or Race ftreit feet.
s There we erected en the premises befidesthe above
} dwelling, a convenient Barn and Stable fuffici-nt
ly large to accomnv e f c vt ral cow, also a nam
ber of n-at lummer-houfes in the garden ; a varie
ty ol trees, some of which are fruit, there is a
r pump with excellent water in tlieysrd. Thi.; pro
pertris not more than two fjuares from the canal
j which wjil be highly advantageous to it, ia a few
yea t.
Part of this estate is leafed for 20S dollars per
nn cm, of whi»h two yearsfrotn the«;th March
; nex-, are un* ipired.
| \Sh,r r ic tJte Philadelphia Library will like
, wife he fold.
wid be made known at the time of
A">yp rf >n wiping to view the propei ty
pleafc to applp to
JOHN WARNER,
»" 38, north 4(8 street, ( _
or to fcD ■fJ ARU ('U TBUiH (
No. 10, south 4th.ftreet. J
WILLMM" SHANNON, Auctioneer,
: J sn -9
Flax Seed for Saje.
Apply to GEO. DOBSON,
No, 25 South Third ftrett.
Jan ' dtf
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
i o lie had at a moderate price—Enquired
Wo. Arcn-^reet.
,d 2 w
PR^oposau
tT A „ V ™ G , m '' t v ' irh pa'ronage, the
A X Subfcnber is emboldened to ifTue prooofals
tor printing by fubfer.p-ioH, the JOURNALS O F
k r ESS ' fro ' E thcir fi rf l meeting in 1775,10
the present time. '
This work fcall be print'd with a new type
made Tor the purpose ; and on good paper. 'lr
wil be deiivtreiTan ole dollar per volume (o£la
v<») >n 6vo s.—cafh so f-e paid on delivery
I' is ncedlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of
thii undertaking—tke scarcity ol the Journals
throughout the United S.ates, ■» fuffi. lent to jufl:-
fy the p-inter in his hop? of m?eciog with that
success, which he i« certain the enterp/ tie <i/-fcr7o
- PARKEII.
J ;n »7- d6t
A r 0 T I c E.
A I-f.-'p-rfon,- who have my d.'mand* aTaln.t
' 1 the eftitf of IVIL JI AMCOMPTOA' I; t c
"t the:c tyat Phthdelpfua deceased.'are reiuefl
fo furn'ln their aieiHinf, duly attested. And
thole who are indebted to f,.id estate, are earnefl
iy fohcir-d f»m s ke immediate paym-nt, to either
o the lubf ribers
Ifjac Calhrall, 1
John Haojuortb, S- Ad.niniftrator.
Samuel IVileox* J
January 27.
Mrs. GRATI'AN, ~
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies ar.d
Ouitlemen of the City, that agreeable
to ihe wish of Mrs. Orattan's fobferibers, on
T1; ?fr'ay next Ihe gives a Ball, with refrefhroenti
inPejd cf a concert, at Mr. Richardets. Tick
et* of admittance to non-fubfcriberi two dollar!.
J- dtfPROPOSALS n .
ri
FOR >V)
CARRriXG THE PUBLIC. MAILS b ; .
on the following l'ofk Roads will bs re-
crived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inchiUvc. ho
PENNS7L VA XI A, UV "
t, From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Rtwcaf- an
tic, Cantwcll'tf bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Frcd
eriwa, Milford, Cloughs, Dagfborough, Trap,
BnowMll, ftarntpwn aud Accojnac court houfc to
Northampton court hoiife three times a week.
April Ito Wutmbtr <5- Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuefd«y, Thursday and Saturday at 2 a M.and r j v
ferrrivtr at Worthamptoß eourt houfc on Thufday, tol
Saritrdgy a»d Monday at7| pm . Returning. Leave
Northampton court ht.ufe every Frtlay, MonJay on
and vtfcdn - g,.
phu on Monday, WednefJay and Friday by 7 I-a D(
p M. 5 1
J&WNpier 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery TuefJiy, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m, am
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, ' j
Monday and Wednesday by 7r m. fcturnin*
Lfave Northampton court homfc every Saturday,
TntWay and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at Lc
PhUidelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday at
by ; f m. ; ri\
VIRGINIA. I
а. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thrte titiieaa wt»fk. , Gr<
April t f November 15 Leave Northampton to ]
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- j j
day at B pm, and r.rrve at Norfolk in 24 hours. r j v ,
Returning—*-Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- ]\4 C
day and Monday a4a m, and arrive at North amp- day
ion court house in t wren* y tour hjurs. I ry i
Nrvembrr I 5 to April U LeavJ Northampton h y
court house everyTjiefJay, Th«rfday and an( J
a 3 a m, and arrive at Norfolk in *4 hear*. Rc
tvrwm—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wedaef- [ 2
day and Friday by 4 am, an'd afrive at Northamp- o f, c
ton courc house in 24 hours. i
PENNSYLVANIA MARYLAND. arr j
3. Prom Philadelphia by Wilmington, N-w- ing
port,Chrif^iana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- I arr
tov/ncrofs road»toChefterfto«vnthreetimesa week. 2
May I/« Nuvemter I Leave Philadelphia every . an j
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 r and ar- I L
r.ve at Cheftertown the next days by Bpm. Re- and
turning —Leive Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- R et
nefday and Friday by 9t m, and arrive at Phila- noo
delphia the next days by 8 p m. »
November I to May 1. Leave Philadelphia eve- ton ,
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at hou
Cheftertown on Tuesday aad Saturday by 4 ' L
Miming—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and Mi
Friday by 8a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on A M
Toefday and Saturday by 4 p,m. Vol
MART LAND- Lea
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, 6t '
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill and Prin- at I
Mis Ann to Salisbury once a week. 2
Receive the mail at Chaflertown every Wednef- hou
day at 7a m, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. I .cave han
talton on Thurf lay by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill Lan
6ri Friday by Ip. m, and at Princels Ann by 6p. L
m. Rrtui ling—LeaveFrincefs Ann on Saturday by , rr J
10 am, arrive at Eafton tht? nea< day or Monday a w
by 6p M Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8a m, and Sry
arrive at CheftertoWr. ftme day by 4 p m. no«
5. From Harford by B 1-Air to the Blackh»ife 5
one j a week. h® u
Leave Harford Tuesday by 10 am, and I
arrive at Black horse by 6P m. Returning—have and
Black horfc on Wednesday by 6a m, and arrive at m.
Harfbrd the next Tuesday by 9 a m. at i
MARYLAND and VIR- da 5
GINIA. '•
б. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe toYorktown hoi
Pa. once a week. or "
Leave Bal«a.ore eVtry Friday by 4 p m, arrive
it &lackhorfe oh Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r iv
at Yorhtown by 8 Pm. Returning—Leave York- Le
town every I'Kurfday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- St;
tirr.ore on Friday noon. Le
j. From Yorktown by Hanover, Fettrfburg, CI
Taneyton ar.d Fredericktown to once a m(
week.
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Tujfday by 5p m, andareive w(
it Leefburg on Wedctfday by ir«. Returning—
Leave I.eefburg every Friday at noon, ana arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday. ,
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown.Gsttilburg,
Pairfield, Elizabethtown, Williarefport, Martins-
Burg, Winchester, Stevenlburg and Strafburg to
Wootlftock once a week.
Leave Yorktow-o every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martiufburg on Tuesday by II am. Leave <-•
Martin (burg on Tuesday r.oon andarrive at Wood- »
{lock on Wednesday by 6t m. Returning—Lave
Woodftock on I'hurfday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- M
tinfburg on Friday by 11 a m, andarrive atYork- P
town on Sunday by 11 a m. T
9. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Wafliing- or
Weft Libarty and Wheeling to ihe mouth of
Fifliing creek Once a week (contrail for one year } c i
•nly.) • ot
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 am, and ar
rive at Fishing creek oil Sunday at 9a m . Return- a ,
hg—Leave creek on Wednesday at 8a m, oi
. and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at S-o-m. .j
10. From Wa'.tipgton by Brownfvillc and Union r
to Mqrgantown once a week.
Leave Un>»n every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Wafhirgton by 6 pm. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6a m, arrive at Morgantownon Sun- "
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 a m, andarrive at Union by 3 PM.
it. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza- 3i
kcthtown, Greencaftle and Chamberfburg to ship- v
penfburg onee a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m,arrive 1
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 am, at Eli- r
zabcthtown in the evening, and at Shippcnfburg I
Oil Monday by 7' »■ Returning—Leive Shippti.f- t
burg every Tuesday at 9a m, arrive at Elizabeth (
town at BPm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday t
noon, and at Baltimore on Thuriday by Jpm.
MARYLAND. ■.
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old- ]
town to Cumberland once a week. ,
t LeavtCumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizabethtown on Monday by 8 a m. ,
Returnh" Leave Eliiabethtown every Monday by
10 a m" and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm
-13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and
arrive at An»apolis by 5 pm. Returning—Leave (
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, aud arrive at
Baltimore by 5 p m.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns
CTppCT Marlborough,Pifcataway.Perttobaceo, I- 1
Iriufrelb, Newport and Chaptico to Lconardtown '
once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at io a ri, arrive '
at Annapolis at Jm. Leave rthnapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. St arriveat
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90'ctock.
Returning Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3 \
r m , arrive at Pifcataway 011 Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, afid arrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, aad arriveat
Baltimore by3P »•
From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to St. Leon
ards ouce a week.
Leave Au3»poli-' every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards an Monday by 3p m. Re
hr,i„g —l.eave Sl Leonards every Mondiy at 4
r m, and arriv9 at Annaptlis the next Saturday by
6 A *.
X 6. From BiadrrlVut<£by Upper Mar.borough, .1
a Lawcr "^^ifco.Ben
n Jlfl and ClArloctehall -to tfhapl'co once* wc-k. anc
Leave flhd^ifkurgevery Saturd; at 9 a «,ar-
ri»e at Upper Marluoroueh by noonand at l-o -vxr 5,
MarlUoro.iglion Monday by 5r H> at ',
Sby6 pn. Returning— LeaveChapiicoeveryl r.u't- <
day at 6 A m, and arrive at Bladcnfburgou Satur-
day at 6 a m. 1
1 ' 17. From Georgetown hjr Moni-omery caurt
house to Frjderickiownonca a p 0
Leave Oeorgetown every Friday by 6a m, * nd ,
arriveat Fredericktown by 6 tu- Returning ,
Leave Fsedericktown every Thuifday by 5* M > (h u
" and arrive-at Georgetown by 6 pm. • eve
ClJtaiNIA. ria,
> 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking- A
' hail court house, Staunton, Lexington and/incaf- Th
die to Big Lick once a week. eve
Leave Woodflock every Thursday by 6a h, ar- 5 ,
1 riyeat Statiton om Friday at Ip m. Leave Staun- p
> ton every Friday at i pm, arrive a'. Big Lick on so.l
: Sunday by 11 am Returning— Leave Big Li^
' on Sunday by Ir u, arrive at Staunton every ' uel- <
d.yby II A M. Leave Stauntom by It o clock b"t
1 )nofwi) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by we
5 From Big Lick by Montgom-ry court house
' and Wythe eourt house to Abingdon once a week.
Leave Big Lick every Sundav at I p v., arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 1p m, and at pr< *
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6r m. Returning— (() f
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive L
at Wythe court house on Friday by Ipm, andar- j
! riv 3 at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m. t on
TENNESSEE. o*
»o. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jom-fborough 4
1 GreenviHe,Moffat's (tore andjefferfon court haule ton
to Knoxvilie onceaweok. Hal
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar- mo
rive at Moffcus Hart 00 Saturday by 8a «. Leave Lea
Moffats by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun- ««
day by 10 am. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve- 4
ry Sunday by »P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday Wa
by 3 pm. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on WednefJay by 7 pm. r,vt
VIRGINIA. ' UP ;
; zi. From Winchester by Romney to Moorfields
once a week. f> x
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6a m, and (OB
arriveat Moorfieldan .'riday by 6F M. Return- qjj.
ing—Leave every Saturday at 8 a m,and f ro]
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M. we ,
la. From Afexandfia by Centerville, Leefburg |
j and Shepherdllown to Martinfburg once a week. Wj
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, W<
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 am. P
Returning—Leave Martinfburg eveiy Friday by Ch
noon & arriveat Ale.taadriaon Monday by 7a «. Ch
a 3. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- on
tons, Tappahannodk, Urbanna and Gloucester court
house to Yorktown once a week. „
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at I'appahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at mton and arrive at
Yorittpwn on Saturday by iiam. Returning— we
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive j
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive M!
at Fredericklkurg onTuefdayby 5 PM. Lei
24. From Tappahanuock by Richmond coutt anc
house, Weflmoreland court hoiife, Kin We, Fartt- ,
ham church and Northumberland court houfs to son
Lancaster court houf»o»ce a Wect- tan
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and J
arrive at Lancaster court houfc on Saturday by 11 rivi
am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court houft sv- Sp=
ery Saturday by i PM. and arrive at Tappahan- «*"
noak on Monday by 11 a m. '
15. From Frtderichfburg by Culpeper edui-t °j
house & Orange c. h. to Charlottifvilleonce a week.
Leave Freiiirickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefvilfe oil Thursday by 11 a
m. Returniftg—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8P M, and arrive at Freiericttlburg on l'»ef- Jni
day by 6 a m.
46. From Richmond by Gooehland court- an
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton R CI
once a Wcefe. ~ :
Leave Richmontl every Tuesday at 1 p m, ar
rive at CharlotteWlie on Thursday by ir A iv», an
Leave Charloitefville by napa and arrive at "
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning— 0
Leave Staunton o» Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
1 charlottefville by 7 P M, and arrive at Rich- Hj
raond the next "Tuesday by 9 A M. a t
17. Fr»m Staurtidn by Bath court-house aiid
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house otice a an
week. 101
Leave Staunton ever} Saturday at 6a m, and be
arrive at Greenbrier eourt-heuf»on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier eourt-
| house every Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
, Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
2?. From Charlattefvile by Warren, War- C o
. minster, New-Market, Amherft court haufe, gs
: Cabellfburg, and Maddifen to Lynchburg once m
. a week.
e Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p 21
- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 ''
- P M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every 01
Tuesday by 6A m, and arrive at Charlottefvilte y
- on Thursday by 10 A M.
f 29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay- al
r lettJ and Todds to Tipfwhannock once a week „
' or if carried in stages as \)ften as they fcall run. b
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at j A M,
arrive at Toddj at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
'» on Thursday at 11 A M. Returning—Leave
Tappiliarinock on Moiidiy at 1 P M, aud ar- *
n rive at Richmond on Tuesday by j pM. f .
30. From Richmond by Hopkin#'», Powha- v
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house afld Lynchburg to New
it London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M, c
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P C
p. m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M> si
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning— t>
re Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P m, ar- 0
li- rive at Lynchburg by 5 P M, arrive at Prince
rg Edward on Saturday by 7 pM, and arrive at f
if- Richmond on Monday by 4 p m.
h 31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- 5
»y tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m, c
and arrive at Fincaftle cn Saturday by 6- r m.
d* Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at- 5 A '
M, and arrive at New London on TuetUay noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- r
"• tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
y M, andarrive at Martmville on Sunday by 6 p t
k M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6A M, |
' j and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. t
ive .13- From Princ? Edward court house by 1
Charlotte court houft to Halifax court house
once a week.
n , L»ave PrihceF.d war-'court house every Thnrf- •
l„' day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house '
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal- 1
ifax court house onFridayby 2 PM, and at- ,
ive rive at Prince Edward touft hoafe-on Saturday
5a- by 6P M.
igh VIRGINIA anJNGR TH-CAROL IN A.
:at 34- From H difax roun-houfe by Halifax old town,
' Carters, Martitwille, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau- 1
t | ra, G*rmantawn and Bet haaia to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Fii<iavat
lve 1, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Mondsy bv 6, ]
, at PM. Returning LeaveSalem every oiherTurlday
at 6, A M, and aarive at Halifaxcouit-houfe 011 Fri- ,
, Aay by 10, AM.
* ' 35. Ftom Hairis'sby Hickes'sford to Halifixtwice
m * a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by '
$> A M. and ai rive at Halifax by 6, P V. Return- '
ing—leave Halifax every Thtrriuay and Sunday by 6, /
4 A ,M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
l>y ' riRCIMA.
36. From Smiififieid by Southampton eourt-houfc '
;h, to Hifkea's to id once a week.
1^
No'e 3. For every four's delay (vsWttktfe acciienti
exceptedJ in arriving ajler the times prefcrihed in any con
tra,ft, tie Contractor JhMJorJeit me dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the. departure «/ any detur.dirj flat!, F
mhereb, the Mails dejlined for such depending Mail. Mt r T
a trip, an additional forfeiture »f five dollars fkall be J
incurred' (In
Note 4 New/papers as well mi Letters are to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any ferfin mating proposal, dejires
to carry m.tfpapers otber than tlvfi conveyed in the mail,
for his ■ lurient, he rrsofi fete in fit proposals for ,
tu'jat J'u.n b: loill carry it -with that emolument and for
vihat Jam without that emolument. j~ u
Mete 5. Should avy perfin mating pnprfals desire an
alteration of the time, of arrival and departure abneffe
cified, he-muX Hate in his propyls the iterations dehred,
1 an! tie difference they toil! maie in tl/e teme *f hi, cut' i
""Note 6. Per forts making proposals are defred tofiat, fo '-
their f rices in gross by the year, and not by the mile. £«
Thofc rvho eontraS will receive their pay quarterly, U
the months of January, April, 'July and ORoktr, in
drafts on the pofl offices on the route and in banlcrules.
Note 7. The contrails are to be in operation on the fsrH 01
' day of April next, and continue for four years, until
the J \ji d:iy of March inclujive, in the year 189 Z.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, «♦>'
Poft-Mafler General.
General Post Office, 7 —;
Philadelphia, December 18, 17975 J
tuth&sti4thF
; N OTIC E.
ALL persons who have any demands against f[
the estate ©f Willam Fleewtood, of £
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- fer
ceased, are requeSed to exhibit their accounts, to
properly attelled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate 1
payment, to ani
GEO. DOBSON, \ AllminUlr > r dri
No. 15, So. Third-street. j r ' leg
January 4.
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
to
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near tfie New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
[• and hope, by their unremitting attention, to &
t merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
t nerfhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
: been diflolved by mutual eonleot. Cavanagh
f and Hearn have just received a quantity of St. l*
■ Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
> intend to fell on very reasonable term&s Jorcalh. v j (
L Orders from the country most punctually txe- tu;
cuted. Vineers of all cut as nfual. pe
- .J an - J y - aaw4w of
» Mttfical btfirumcnt Manufactory* of
167, Arch-ilrcet. . e( j
TO THE LOsERS OF HARMONY. of
harper, , w:
INFORMS his frieads and the pubUc, that he has Sc
no* ready for sale, a few of hi» new invented, atl
* and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with to:
Pedals, patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
" flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
e tone,fimplicityand durability of conftrudlion, the Ci
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they ""
are manufatftured under his immediate inlpeilion,
of the very be 3 Ceafoned materials, he can fell on I,
[. reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrunwnts repairad, A
. tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Forte» taken in ex- 7
1, change for new.
fiovember 18. iawimo.
A LL peribns indebted to the' estate of Peter j l|
' a ' l\. Gill, late of the £>iftridl of Southwark.de- w
are reqaefted to roalee immediate pay
t> ment to either of ttie-Sabreribers: and those
u who Have atiy~cJemands against laid estate, are ff ,
o requested to bring in their accounts chlly attefl
ed to. '
JOHN MURPHY, ") E *ecu- at
c PETER SC RAVE NDYKE, >• „
' e THOMAS FARRELL, J
Philad. 'an. 16. 1798. *qaw4w
g- FOR SALE, at
** Wm. Young's Book Store, L
1( j No. 52, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut rt
c _ T) EPORT of the Committee of the House or re
Iv Reprefentativesoftlie United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment ~
jh' againfl WILLI4.M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
it- United States, impeached of high crimes and mit- r
h- demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfuof Representatives, authorizing the said
>d Committee to fit during the recess of Congress,
a " infttuiling them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
" e " means, to difcevcr the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Elount ti
10 " ftanas impeacheJ, and who are thc parties and e
" associates therain." n
V | e Pr 'tnttd by order of the House of Representatives. d
Decombtr 10. §
Prison Manufactory. Y
ro FOR SALE,
At the Prtfoti of the City nuKJounry of r
r- phia,
Cat Nails of all ironi jdy to ictiy
n * Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadltts Thread r
:c ' Also Sawetl Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
j tomb and head Rones, hearths, chimney piete«, J
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea'is, fills, c . j
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shr>es mtde atid Weaving done at said Prison at '
Jt a moderate price.
at Orders from a diflarrcc, dire died to Daniel Tho
ng mas, agent fer the prison, will be attended to.
an December 16. rath£m
>«. DANCING SCHOOL.
"g TTTILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his j
ar- VV most refpe.-lful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens iii general, and re
turns his moll gratefal thanks, for the very
;e, bountiful encouragemeut he has expetjenceri for
»t- tnefe twenty-five years pad, takes this ogportu
=rl nity of informing tbera, that his school is now '
, c " open, at his
Elegant Ball Roem,
n, in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
im Walr.ut-fkeets. To begin at 10 in the morning
ur 6 ft#r young ladies, and 6in the evening for young
' p gentlemen.
" c '_ Dec. 8. aawtf.
COLUMBIA
Boarding School for young Latlies.
" 0£) MO RIG Gb' with much pleaf
*t ivl ureand refpofl, retyrns lier fvneere ac
. knowleilgement for the liberal encouragement
lsc Hie lias received during lbur years rsfidence in
Phiiadelplua ; and allures her friends and the
ive P U M< L '> far from intending 11 decline her
jr. lchool, she hasmadea fupenor arrangement for
:it she more convenient accommodation of her
fchoiars.—Every branch of ufeful and pe-Jite
mt s education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groomhridge and mafturs excelling in their
om . refpeilliveprofeffiors.
ere- Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jnne sth, 1797. fimfrf
Leg Thc lituation is perfeilly healthy ; and made
m; more agreeable by an extensive gird ;u a*d lot
of ground adjoining the houle.
CityCommiffioner's Office
I I,; / ol^ w,n ».? ra »e e ®"« " made by the
l V«t 3 t. ' oner " f ° r *-** the
I iftrid No. i.—From the north fide ,fv
flreet to thefoulh fide of Mulberry.ft rect
be under the f U perimend«ec of Nicholas Hkk,°
2. From the feuth fide of Mulberrv street
the south fide of Cbrf:iut street to be urder'the
fupenndaiice of William Moulder.
3- From the s oU th fide of Chefnut areet to
Jofeph CUypoolL UDi "
penntandinteof Hugh Robert,. mwAm
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that hla
book,, which have been kept open fortteir
tionfince December! 796 are Wanted to the 31ft
ult. and w,U during the prefei.t month temmn
open at hu Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further mveftigation and fciut'ny
Pt,-. 4-, w r J AMES or EENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1111798.
JuJl received a Frejh SupplyT
English Grammar,
Tlx second edition, tuilh improvements.
A aA^* IED t<,tbe different classes of learner s
f I , W ' th f an a PP? IMh *> staining rules and ob
fervatioHs for affiftwg the mora advanced ftudenw
to wnte with peflpicuity aa4 accuracy
Bv LINDLEY MURRAY.
" fbis is a publication of much merit, and fullv
anfwets the profeffions in the Title. Theaoowi
jhx contains some of the heft rules f« writing e
hmften ** W " h tha ' we recoiled to
<. Tt," n Mo " iU y *<*»*»>, July 1796.
This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled » *
to commeiHWory n«tke, its materials have teen
carefully and j-dicouflyfeleaed ; its arrangement
istkftima and well adapted to the purpose ol in
ftrud.on and its exprcffio« is f.mple, perspicuous
ana accurate, 4ec t "
Srr-tfjr c/*,, a,Jrr m targe in Ihe AiialfticaT
Review, July 1796
Englifti Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar latety pubWhed by
Lindley Murray, cenfifting of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftancesof falfs orthography
violations of the rules of fyncax, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpediW
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit 4
of private learners, as well as for theufe of fchooh.
" W« have been much pleased with the perufai
of these Eiercifes. They eccitpy with diftinguilh
ed excellence a most important plac* in the fciciux
of the English language; and a« such, we con
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are defiroos of
attaining cdrreiloefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jtlly 1797.
The above Borfks are for sale at Joseru & Jambs
Cruksitanks book flare, No. 87, Market flrecf
_ fenuary rr. __ 3Uwiw.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AT front the fuhferiber, on the 24th
of December, 17.97, a Negro Man, about 22
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about j feet
7 or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; he
has a very coaife voice, his fore teeth (land very
far apart ; there ware one or two with him—l r
■ eannot rightly describe the.cloaths he took
him, for he took two or three suits ; he hai «n.
tetf "to We °!■.lTwK. be,fc T trowfeft, a
1- liat-: he taok with him four very good Ihirtv—l
' expert he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerfeye.
• Whosoever takes up said negro and ft cures Him, fi>
that the owner may get him again, ftrall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
January 2. 'fitsaw
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
, rent will be given ; to he taken tor a year, or on
r more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
■ Ofl. 17- eotf
I Valuable Books,
' Just received by the Fai* American from <
j London, and now opening and fefling by
i J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
1 CATALOGUES
t Of the newly importedbeoks maybe had gra
t tis. These added to O's uftial stock, form ah
d extensive and elegant colleilion of ancient and
modem literature, and comprise books in sun
dry languages and on various fubjefls.
This Day M Puliybed,
By J. Ormhob, (Price 75 cents, handfomelf
bound and lettered, and embellished with an
elegant frohtifpiece and seVenty three cuts.)
" The Looking Glass for the Mind,
: o fT*- '
The Jovenile Friend ;
' Being a valuable colleAion of interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
'• young minds the happy eft'efls of youthful in
'• nocence aHd fjlial affeftion—ln prose and verf«.
' Defigued to improve and amuse the rising ge*e
cation.
In the Press, and wiU be fyeedity publrfhed,
„ Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for, thi9 incomparable work will
- be thankfully received by the printer. The hook
W>II contain about three hundred piges, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
: fivered to ftibfcriberrs neatly bound, lettered and
15 eifibelliftied with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3,
5r This Day Publiftied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, tornerof
Second and Chefnut
Price 3-Bibs of a Dolla* x
, Observations on certain Dteamen:*
' r Contained in No. V- and VI of
" The History of the United States ft)i*
the year 179.6,"
In which the cbaroe or speculation asa«uU
ALEXANDER HAMILTON>
Late J>BCRCTAJtv of the # fW<'
s> REFUTED.
,(t tr i ITT RAT Br if 1 M'S EL P.
t _ This puhlwation presents a concise ftatsmeru
■y» of the bafc means pradlifed by the Jacobins efts*
United States to asperse the charafieri of Jiot«
1 pc-rfonswho are^onfid£redas hostile Mihtir di -
gaiiizing schemes. .It also contsios t e
C refpondence between Mr. Hamilton aiid .if trs.
0T Monroe, MuhLnburgh »cd Vecable, on the sub-
I cr jeit of the documents alorefaii, anxJ a scries ot let
,,e ters from James Reynolds and hk wife to Mr Ha
r?" milton, pioving !>tyond thepoffibdity of adou t,
that tlie connexion between him and Reyr.oJd*.
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the p»r»
of the latter and his associates to extort nionef.
g? A difcflunt of one third from the retail prue
de will be roadi in favor ot wholesale purchal.t-,
lot (jasb. Orders to be adsr.ffe« to ' scn»-