* t «*. • k * > r ) nt '?• J >
oftue Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
}S!UMB£r'i 852. J
* # * The price of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year.—Subscribers who rtfide at
a dijlancc from the place of publication, and
Ivhofe papers art sent per pojl, pay fx
month's fubfeription in advance, and one
dollar annually for enelafmg and direßing
their papers. The payments to be always
fix months in advance.
For Sale.
THE Soß»ctwEii, intending to decline the
pRUti BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
wholi § iik of
Drugs 'and Med'.cines, Inftruinents, &c.
Thsihop elegant, commodious, and fuiiici
•efltly Vno Tn for che extensive business c cire n the
wh >li|aW ani retail line ; the situation, squat to
any in the city, being the c-ji ncr Of Walnut and
Second flttfets'. The whole, or any B4r' of the
will be fold/ as will bed suit the pure'safer.
This terms may be known, by applying to
JAME.S MOORE, jus•
JVko has For Sale,
for the
The P'EOGV, 30 tons burthen,
Vfi&lbsrry and feed Ced r frame, and remarkably
float, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
go aJ' ofder.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
Weil, and incomplete ord~r forthe lumber bufmcls.
0- All persons indebted to the late firm of
Gt'dtlnvait tjf Baldwin. IV. 3 GJdthivait, Qold
tbinMt iff Moore, or the fubfcri'-cr, arc earnestly
rtqueftcd to make fpeet'.y payment to
JAMES MOORE, JON.
august 3 ' i 1_
I— ■ I I Ml I'l
Ship & Insurance lirvkftr y
THE iMliilcrib-r, encouraged by the advice
of Lis friends, offers hisfervice to ti>e pub
lic 4S a Ship and Infuraoce Broker. H# pro
pofc-s to buy and fell vfflels and every thing re
lating thereto —affilt masters of veiTcls and others
in entering and clearing at the Cuitom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necessary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch ot birfinefs he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who please to favor him with thsir
commands. S AMUEL EMERY.
Philadelphia, anguft 14th, 1798-
FOR SALE,
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 caflts of nails alforted
30 bales of fall canvass, from No. I to 8
53 calks jellmw ochre
j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Ma j e ; ra Wines
India market )
Tenenfledo". in hoglheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Ci vet bottles _
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
afiert-ed for the Welt-India market
4> to; aral<> inch cable-and 19 coils of cordage
Writitjg fiates, ink ftandk and presses
to pvrch(Mn9 Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles toeatbing paper
Nicklin £s* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
STAMPS.
W. GRIFFITHS,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
BEGS leave to inform Inch persons in the fouth
ernpartof the city (who may find it incon
venient to go farther up for their ftatfhps) that at
Ms Store, No. 177, South Second, near Spruce
fircet, he his a gei.-crallupply for diftribunon.
He has juR.- c'ivedfrom London, by the way
of New York, an elegant sffoitment of Morocco
Articles, viz travelling, dreGing, writing ond
drcffii g Cases, with U.Urumcnts very complete ;
Pocket Books ; Jstwees; I hread C afes, Purses,
&c in the greater vanity and bell manufacture.
-Mj r t 0,1 band—Charts of every part of the
American Coast, Prints framed and glazed, Draw
ing Books and Portable Def*s, which, with his
usual Pock, W. G. hopes will not be unworthy
the attention of ladi#s or gentlemen who make ule
of fu-h goods.
A numbet of imtU Dutck RIFLnS, cheap
_july 30 aawjw__
Madeira Wine.
A"few pipes of ri maikab'v fine MADEIRA W INE
-fit for immediate use, and at a rrdurfd price—Fol
falebv J AMES. YARD.
jo'v 26.
Should a gentleman, a na
tive of Tencrife, who liaj Dcen known in America by
name of Lewis Martin Cevel st one t me, and at
another by that of Lev, is Cevel Pellifer, b'alive, and
■will apply to I<mr» Barry, ot Baltimore, he wil
hear of fomeihing htgl-'iy 10 hii interell. Or (hou'rf
.he be deceifed, will addtef aceiti
ficate of his deatl", properly authenticated, will be le
warded with twenty dollars, by applying as above
Vr Peliifcr ts iuppoled to be ioinc where in the llate
* -of Madacbufwus.
augull «. -
Bafkenridge —lor sale
IT confifls of 910 acres, slmoft all of which i»
a fins rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
of St irling). It may be conveniently dixided
4 into five farm*, four of whirh arc bounded on the
Eart by the river Pafaiclc.
Th'.r» are 011 it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a vsry convenient or.e andjafmallexpenee would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coniifts of 1500 ft 11 shearing engraf
td Apple Trees—and there is 011 other parts ol Eatd
*aft'neat 300 other Apple frees—as also a great
variety of other fruits.particularly Cherries oi the
kcll andmoft delicious kiads.
Alfcb a great number of beautiful Ixotic" and
forellTrees, that add to th<i beauty and eonver.i
«nce of the place. Its lituation is abeut 18 miles
.from ihfe town?, of Newark and Elizabeth: todo.
frsm Morris-Town, and li from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To Cave trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
<ji»cafh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to tn
auirc of T. MeETJEN & Co.
K«. 78, Chefntit treet.
ebruary i. colit f
PHILADELPHIA:
FOREIGNERS
MAY, Tiy virtue of an aft paifed at November
session 1791, hold by deed, or by will, lands
in that part of Maryland called the diftriS of Co
lumbia ; and the fame may be transmitted to, and 1
inherited by their heir), &c.as if they were citi- 1
tens. i
Within the diftrift of Columbia, upon th« caf- I
tern branch of Potomack- opposite squares No.
1114, and U3l in the city WaihinKton, are 360 a
crcsof reserved wood hnd Forfait. I - advant:.
gecare iuini;raus, poffeflirj thtc • or four rlc/ai '
heights, tinny fine springs, and an abur,' - cv Of
timber, principally wljhe oaks. F»r a deck-or
fbip yard, no position can boart of equal benefits,
having two coves, vritli narrow entrances, from
which at an eafv etpence, tide water might be
exclud*d, and d<»cks funk, large enough to re
ceive veUel-* of any size.
WiGiing to retain an interest in the property, I
would prefer felling an undivided half cr three
eights. GEORGE FRENCH.
For terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Union
flreet. Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Wal/h, Balti
more. July 23. *awf;w.
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the SoMth fide of Filbert Street, betwe-n
Eighth *nd Ninth Sreet, formerly occupied
as the General's Ofiiee*—Enquire at No.
111, Chefnut Street.
aug.uft 10 rott
Bolton Gl,;fs,
J"HE Company now engaged ia carrying on
I the Giafs iVUuufoJhiry, with pleafureallure
■h fm'sli:, the' have at length brought the buf>-
. rich into a situation that will allow them to promise
a Arid punctuality in the execution of all orders,
and a superiority in the glass they manufacture to
any imported.
flicir Agents, Meifrs. Joskpk Anthony and
Co. of Philadelphia, will receive and transmit to
the Company, ordefs from any part M the South
ern ?taus, and wdl entrap, tor the delivery of
the Gljfi(, oa term».as reafo.nablc as cqjild be pro
curcifrou th? c ompany rhcmffeUe#.
Letrerf and orders dirc&eit to Cba let
at the works in Boston, &all meet the linked at
tention.
N. )J. They cut of any size from 6 by Bto 18
by 14 inches.
jrdy 27 s ' jiwjm
NOTICE.
WHEREAS it is cnaftcd by the 7th fefiioc of
11 an a(sl to augment the army »f tht Unit
ed States and for other purposes." pafied the 16th
of July, 1798, That the President of the United
States be, and he hereby is aurhnrifcd to appoint a
number not exceeding four, t achers «f the arts
and fcienees necessary tor the inflrudion of the
artillerists and engineers, whs fha.ll be entitled to
the monthly pay of fifty dollars, and two rations
per day.
NOTICE IS THEREFORE GIVEN to those
gentlemen who are qualified and desirous to engage
as teachers upen the terns expressed iu the said
atft, of the vcie.ices neceflary to the artillerists and
engineers, to forward their applications and recom
mendations to the secretary for the department of
war.
The fcienees most necessary to the artillerifl s and
engineers, are th - several branch-s of the mathe
matics, particularly gunnery,fortification,hydrau
lics, hydroOatics, and the calculations of masonry,
timber. &c. also mineralogy, military architec
ture and designing.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
.July 31. d^w
* ' ■ *TTt* 1 i;.>. 1.1. 1
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed honfe. No
High-flre<M, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiftsr, with Coach house and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHE AFP,
No 16-8. Higb-Jlreet.
July .ti ,L_J? ' : ' $
FOR SALE, bv
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CM ESNUT STREET,
100 RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
j»'r 19 $
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approvidpatterns,entitled
to th« drawback, just received,
anb for sale by
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18.
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels ? of Bief of b«ft quality, put
jo half Barrels J up with care for long voyages,
ico Barrels of Connedlicut Pork.
50 Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port i
30 half ca(k9 of Shefry
30 Calks of I.ilbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Han-els of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
40 Boxes of bed Durham Mustard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenbcrger's Wharf.
may » > eodif
Jul! Received and for sale by
WILL IA M rO UN C,
Comer of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
Officc'of the Editor,price 1 i6ths. of a dollar,
AN ORATION,
Spoken at Hartford, on the Anniversary of Inde
pendence, July 4, i"9"-
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient itores, wharf, &e. fitujtcon
Water llreet, between Mulberry and Saffafras
Street", containing in front on Witer flreet
ty-four feet, that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, .thea widfening to the
south thirteen feet fix iucTies. ' Thei'e joules
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the no'th fide, and area very defis-able si
tuatiort for a % ineroVant, tlour oj 1 other
«-ho may have occasion for -storage of
This property will bv so d on very reaior.ible
*erms for rash For further inforir.il'Oh apply
printer. aprll S tnkwtt
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 30, 1798.
Weft-Indian from Madeira.
Cs* Those Gtntleoneß who have Wines
t»n board the Weft-In lian are informed Ike is
now- dill-barging ;-t Soiith-ilrect Wharf, are ft»-
licired to haden dawn their permi:s t the VejTel
being iinmr-rtiitely wanted, Peter Sl-ght.
Who wants to Purchase,
ico Barrels of god Prime or Stefs Beef
100 d'tto Pork
7 or Bce ditto fine Flour
4 or jcoo bul»eis Indian Corn.
I. A K T) I K n
From the West Indian,
A choice parcel of Phelp's old particular
Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate ui'e.
auguil I?
CAUTION. * *~
WHEREAS a certain perfonf#itidled
from me on thclirlk inft. by giving !
mc inlieuthereofaforged check on the Bar.k '
of North America, anote of that date, diawn
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thousand four
hundred ard fifty seven dollars and forty-Ti*
cents. ALL. persons are delirtd not to re.
ccive any transfer of it, as it] will not be'
paid by eitl er the drawer or er.dorfer unless
recovered by law. v
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
anprufl 6.
1 he Public are hereby -informed,
I did not mean to autliotife Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that f wouH not pay,
un'efs recovered by law, my r.ote alluded to in his
caution of t!-ie <jth of August, published in the Ga
zette of the. United States of laA evening. I fm
cerely lament his lois, and t«ld him I would do
all I milk! do confiftendy with my credit to fcrve
iiim, but went no further.
J9HH TRAVIS.,
august 7
Insurance office ~
OF THE STATE OF P&hNSTLrAN lA,
August Ist, ! 798
THE Diredors have this day declared a di
vtdend of fifty-five dollars on each fhart of
the Stock of this Company, for the last half
year, whieh will be paid to the Stockholders, or
their legal representatives after the 10th instant.
James S. Cox, President.
august a §t;t
TO BE SOLD,
T'HE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
small pox and mealies, isadive, hearty and strong,
and fit fur house work in town or country. F6r
further information, enquire of the printer.
august 4 §
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Montcith Master, from Laguira,
CONSISTING or
94? Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
alO Bales of Cotton
1 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willing: £3" Francis.
Net. Eleventh litest,
july i: dtf
__ To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
tn Chfir.tflreet, nsxt dcor totbe Bsrt of Ntrih Ameiric-i.
THE Let is thirty by one hun red and seventy
eight. The House bos been thoroughly repaired
within a few mouths, Apply to the Printer.
augustß §
Public Notice is hereby given,
That proposals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of theTrealury for flip
plying the United Stateswith a number not
exceeding Forty thonfaid llar.ds of arms,
on the following "feonditions.
ift. The arms {hall be manufactured in the
United Stales, confbrmab'e to the Cl'.arleville
pattern ; the barrels (hall be proved, and the
mulkets infpefled agreeabfc to the rulefc now
praiflifed and required by tie United States :
the Locks Ih ill be duly hardened ; the Ramrods
and Bayonets (hall be tempered and the mount
ings, Hocks, and every overparticular (hall be
finifhed in a workman likefnanner.
ad. The proposals muflifpeeify the number
which the party iswilling tflfurnilh and the
or times of delivery—Out fourth of the pro
posed number must be delirercd in fix months,
one fourth in twelve month., and the remainder
in eighteen months from tht time of signing the
contrails; the public will dot beconfidered as
bound to receive any arms, which are pot ready
for delivery withip the tirnis propoftd.
3d. For every fiand ot irms, with Bayonet
and Kamrod complete as Jforefaid, the United
States will allow thirteen dtllars and fort) cents.
4th. Wiien praiSUcable and consistent with
existing arrancements, fedoned flocks will be
delivered from the public tores in Philadelphia
to contradlors, at the rate of t A'enty-fjve cents
each.
jth. The arms will be r<reived in the respec
tive slates at places to be hrrelfter designated
The United States (hall nut be bound to prove
I less than five hundred barrels at one time, unless
the barrels are tranfporttdjto fomepublic faSo
ry or deposit of arms, in li hich cafe any num
ber not less than one hutidjed will be prbved.
6th. The parties controlling will be required
to give bonds with sureties for fulfilling their en
gagements j No money -will be advanced unlef*
mdifputable testimonials if Ikill and ability to
execute the prnpofe.d contrails are produced
nor in cases where propofils are madefor a lels
number than one thousand stands of arm» ; the
right of judging of the expediency of making
advances of money isabfokitely reserved.
7th. Unt 1 contrails are made for supplying
fot;ty thoufaml ftandsof arns, the sum of thir
teen dollars and forty certs will be paid at the
1 Treasury for every complete Hand of arms man
ufactured in the United Sutes and which may
■ be delivered in parcels of not lef6 than twenty
- info the public aHlnals, a ready or hereafter to
be eftabliSied. Tliof'e wlo propose 10 deliver
1 arms must however indicate their intentions fca
. forably to the office of the Secretary «f the
Treasury.
For the Secretary of the Treasury,
Jchn Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Department )
yune lid, 17»S. \ «i»vtf
To be ScIJ, at private Sale,
yt I'lantatiiv. and Tiafl of Land
CONTAINING 14? acres, fituste in Wk te
marih tow nfhip, in the county of "1«.t,:0m- i
erv, about 15 ini.es from Philadalph.a, and oa
the public roa ! leading from Piyinaulb by the
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfliam, and about
one quarter of a mile from said tavern, also
about the fame diflance from the Skippa?k road
a-id about the sure di iance from the Ule resi
dence of James Morris esq. deer, ti. It it
bmindfd l.y lincU i>f Ar.thonv M , s eft), ta
cob Reiff acl Ctt- viier. ,', t bou. ac. ..
i good warere<l tucldow, about 15 cr to are un
<!er cWc r, atid about 35 aces are well t«*l>ered.
The bflil-ljngi on thciihove farm corf lift of a
two-llory i'.oue dwellmg-houfe, a largt" stone
barn and stoKe spring-house, ~There is 011
the premifei a ypung orchard tof about Ijo ap
ple-trees.
I bis farm has great advantages of water, as •
there is an excellent never-failing stream palling
by the houle an 1 barn, in filch a manner as to
supply the fame as weil as every field with a fuf
ficient qaantity.
The spring over which the spring-house is
built, is excellent water, and i* also very near
and convenient to the dwefiing-houfe.
The situation of this place is hea thy an-3 in a
good neighborhood, and is near to several de
ferent places of and within the difj
tance of half a mile from two grift anil saw
mrlls, rlfo near lime-kilni.
This farm will be fold together or divided m
j to two parts, as may suit the purchafcrs. Also
i a two-ftorv flone house with a barn und carnage
ho::fe.an3'lot of landfit-yate on Chefnut-hill. It
is a very high and healtky situation, and com
mands a very extensive and beautiful prospect
Pofiffion of part of thcihoufe may be had im
mediately.
For further partieularr apply to Menry Pratt,
No 94 North Watei- Philadelphia, or to
CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK,
on Cbanut-Ihll.
Chefwst-hill, august 14th, 1798. aavvtf
lipidemic and Pestilential Diseases.
A DISSERTATION ON in SOtRCL
IN which it is attempted to prove torn a nune
rous induction «f fails, that they ccver arise
from contagion, but are always produced by cer
tain Hates and vicilßtudts of the almofphere.
By CHARLES M'LEAN, Calcutta.
This valuable work, together with a view of
the Science of Lffc, —and a Treatise on the action
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its application
for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility
Neatly printed on fine wove paper, and bound in
boards, are now to be had at
W. YOUNG'S Book Store,
The corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
(Pries On Dollar.J
august 14 eo? t
Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING Of
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Coflas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muflini
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit lor (he European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogiheads ,
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINK
For Sale, on reafona'ale terms,;by
John Craig,
No. 11, Dock-Ureet.
jnly 14 ■ ■ .
Mails for South-Carolinats' Georgia,
P.* CKHTS are now provided far carrying the
Public mailsby wafer between Pliila iel|>hia
and Charlelton. They will l*ave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The polt by land will be c ;nti:iu
cd tu ce a week until an experiment i-i made in
regird to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any perfnn chuTes to have their
letters sent by land only, they wiW pleafr to j
write the word Land upon the letters : other*
wife they will be sent by that conveyance which
will firft start after the letters are left in the
poft-sffie'e.
Joseph Haberfham,
Pojl-Majler Genteral.
Philadelphia, /ngufi it. 1798. s<t
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt ail. Batik or United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countefi of Leiccfter Packet, in the nth
maiith, 1797, which veffid has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to bo loft.
4000 dollars 4i per cent. Stock, ftandit'g on the
books of the Treasury, in the itame of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of l.ondon,
in one Certificate, No. »6o6 7, dated the ift day
of January, 1707-
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion i> intended to be made at the Office ol (he
Treasury of the United States, at thoJJank of
United States ; of which all persons interellcd
therein, are defircd to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 16, 1798.
aaw^m
John Haines Wm. Jones,
BEG leave to inform theirfriends and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-pattnerfhip
in tht SADDLING BUSINESS, which will if.
future be sarrierfon tinder the firm of
HAINES (9* JONES,
n Market street, No. 131, one door abov» the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lead
1 to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bultnefi, their determination toferve oa the heft
terms, and their knows attachment as Native A
-1 mcricans to the Government and Constitution of
their Country, will entitle thent to the ercourage
mentof a generous public. Although they can
not boafl of having icquired their uperience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their nianufaflure &al
be inferior tj none iu this city,
june a 6. tmhstf
for sale,
A FARM on the road leading to Stile Illand,
within four and an nalfnwleiof Philadelphia,
.containing tn the hightlUlate. of cultivaiion
—agacres ot which is meaddSo', thejtmainder up
land. 1 hefe jreon new fr-nnr Honle
r and Barn, with an exceiwnt j-IrO''", contain
ing a great number of frit Tiers.—lmmediate poffef
flon will be £iven, .
For terms apply to
Thomas PA Franc'u,
Ho. ■ ,S Sot»' k Third street.-
july 18. S
v r-.t ■--
.v.- - • •
[Volume XIV.
WILLIAM M'LAWS* '
SADLER £jf H*4&NESZ AUKER,
U As Kemoved to the Corner of Chefnut
a c 'd ruclfth-ftreet*, on the Comraous,
where he will recede and execute the orders of
'•s.nends and who'e r ale citflomers, with usual
attention & expedition during thfr prevalence of
ilxprefem F.pi letnic, whne it has not made iti
appearance tkif fcafon, nor during any of the
years paflt. . .
august 25 'v -
DoAor GOTiTOhs; "~
As, 2S, Pinr Sir-tt ;
I,pte SURGEON ic the aries o( St. Domingo,
OPFJiR-i his fei vices to the iiiUMtaiits of Un
lade!; hia in the line of hs p.oteflioa. Mc
fiatW*i himfelf that his long Juccclstnl expelitnce
in the Weft-India levers, w ill procurekim ibeton
iidenee ol the citizens'of this city ; particularly
thofe_ attacked by theprefeat Epidemic,
aupuft tj <0^ 3t
t'OR SALE,
BY THE. SUSSCRIBIRS, KO. »L «v EN T H-fr *lt T,
18 Bags Frejfh Cloves.
Willingt 13 Fran els.
dtf
DUTY on CARRIAGES*
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an ot CougrclV. of the
United Stltcs of America, palled at Phila
delphia tiis igthday ol Mai, 1796, l»yi»g du
ties on carriage* for the cm. vcyaitce 0/ pp fan., n:«l
r« pealing the former airs for that purpof-—That
th' re lhall lie levied, cuileded and paid, upon *ll
carri?gcs for the ConvryatKe of pci-fotts, which
£hu 11 Ije kept hy or loy ui:y person, for his or
own use, or to lot out to lure, or for th- convey
ing »f paflei.'gers, the several duties and rat.-' 1-
low.rg, viz. j u !',.
For aftd Upon every coach
upon every chariot , a
upon every post chariot I j
■pon every post ch*ife , j
upon every phetotij with or without top a
upac every coachee
UJKUI other carriages, taring'pannel
work above, with blinds,
or curtaiua \
upon four-wheel carriage?, having")
frame potts and tops, with heel i 6
springs 5
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ")
wooden or iron springs 011 jacks J •'
upon curricles with tops
upon chailes with tops
upon chairs with tops
upon sulkies with t*p»
upon other two wheel top carriages \
upon two wheel carriages with Heel ">
or iron springs t i
For and upon all other two wheel carriages %
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having framed polls aßd tops, i a
and reding upon wooden spars j
The Collector of the revenue ot the firfi diviiioit
of the firft survey of the di!lri<ft of Pennsylvania,
will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties- on
carriages, at Germantown, in the Alain (lreet, a
little above the fijn of the King of Prussia, of
5 which ail person* polleffed oi such carriages arc
dcfirsd to take notice.
Notice is iilfo given,
To all -etail dealers in wrings and foreign distilled
1 spirituous liquors, thaj licenies will he gran-ea to
them ; one liecncc for carrying on the business of
retailing of win.s in a less quantity, or in less
uantitiei, than 30 gallon and oue licence for
irryipg on the bulinefs of retailing fpiritqouj li
quorsfin less quantities than twenty giHens, at the
fame >timeand at the fame place, by
JAMES ASH,
Collector of the ill divijion of the ift
Survey of thcdiCriit of Pennlylvania.
Office of lftfpcdtion at Gcrniantown, 7
lid August, 1798.
£? Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at laid office.
£3* The Stafpp Press is removed
to the Office of Jn Germantowu, on the
e Mail, a reet, a little a.'iove t!ie igl of the King of
Pruflia,—where, attenoance will be given for the
accommodation of thote who wjih any irillrsiniints
stamped, on TucfUayt, ihurfdaysand Saturdays.
augu>t 22
. PETER ULIGHi
HAS r«movcd his Counting Houfi to hfs House
in the Northern Liberties near Nice Town, Ger
mantown road.
J august 21. t f
l » Whereas Catharine, the Wjie
c of the Sobfcrlher, has left ray bed *r,d board
e without any jufl eatife.— The fatd Catharine
>. having contradlec! several ckbta on my at e ujlt !
:s this is therefore to fo.rwarn ail perfcr.s from truft
i, ing or harlioring her on my account as,l am de
y termined not to anfwtr any after the date of
this advertilement. KUHN.
■' Philadelphia, zz/i nugujt, 1798. *j/
J Mr7~LENI Z,
d Teacher of the Piano Forte,
Respectfully oners his rervices > n at
tend his scholars and others at Germantown
—fhonld a* many as Twelve reijueft his attend
ance be will wat on them iminediately.—Pleafe
to #irei£l to the Printer of the Gazette of the
United States.
august »o »iw-
Any person in the neighbour
rood of Germantown defirou«of efreflrtnj Infuran
res at the Office of the Irfurance Company of the
ie of Pennfylvrtnin, now op r.ei at the North
ft Weft Corner of Ninth and M irks t (IreWa, m-v
n know the terms by leaving an inquiry at the houfa
H of SamueJ 'V.Filher, Esq. in Sfrmantown.
. august. 1.1 (tv
r Wanted-—Afituation in aFul -
lie or Merrhaots Office, or to go as Supercargo,
by a perlon regularly brought i-p tp t e Mer
cantile and Infuran> e buficdi in London, he has
.j lately heen a voyage fiom bence to the Weft In
dies as Supercarro, can be well recommended,
Please to enquire at the Printer'a.
august it
i, Removal—Walter Franklin
'* has removed to the house of Mr. William Forbes,
" in Geriiar.'tjwti, where the bufir.efj of hi< oflic*
will be tranfa£c3 during the continuance ef the
J present epidemic.
(■_ august to lawjvr
(O- The Office of the Collector
of this Port is removed to Congreft Hall, where
the Ctiiiom-Kcufe b»ifinef» it bow tran&fled.
august 11.
" ■ t.isfc *
."V -«4"(
lEljc <3a3eta\
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY jp.
for ihe Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
Art ration appeared in yftur paper a few
vetks finesnn th 'ubjecS offoreign immigration.
Tht inclufed oration containing fentiraents de
livered on the fame fubjtfl you ire requefled to
publfh.
AN OX 4TTOX.
On the foltaiving que/ti n ' " Would it he eonsts
" tent ivit4 pftfiey and justice to prohibit the
" immigration of foreigners irtl* the Uiited
" State.' ?" delivered tn a literary society at
Princeton.
f Continued from yesterday's Gazette,J
But :hsiromigration of forfign artifis infco A
wertca has another and a much more impjrUOT
efTefl on our domestic ms»ufacflure«. Evei'y ar
tist who immigrates into America, and every
implement of his irt-, or valujhle machine he
bring* with him, le'Tens the quantity of
neceflary to the practice of that art To prac
tise anv art yna mufl have laborers who knew
how to difeharge their rcfpeilive offices. Sup
pofiig that fu. h labArere can he procured, Che
profits of the capital with which they are em
ployed, will depend upon 'He price of the com
mn iities ni»nuf<ifnred, snd the exprnce necef.
fary to p'epa-e them for fa'e. It thepri e at
which the, produce of the m.inufjflory can he
difpoUd of he known, the profits will vary- with
the txpence in p-eparing it for market. This
ex; ence being composed of two par's —the price
ef the whole labor ind of the giofs m teriaU
Upon which it is if tht latter he given
the profits of the manufactory will vz*-f with
the former, that i:, w.th the wages of the
workmen and their number; and this la ft ex
pend-, it is said, is too great in Ameriej to ad
mit of the efiahli'htnent of njirtjfj.'lofiesi I
have (hewn low the immigration of foreigners
reduces the wages of each laborer, the other ad
vantage I would wish to explain, is, its efFe-3 in
dimini!hm?the number of workmen engaged in
the cxeri ile of any art. A manufactory being
supposed to pr' duce a certain quantity 1 of mm
ufailured article.-. in a given time, with the la
bor of a certain i nrr.ber-of workmen praflifing
with a given devtersy, it is evident that if you
encreafe the desttrity of the workmen you may
dirj.inilh their number, and yet prt;>are the fame
quantity of commocii ies for market, (( r, if
yorf iuppofe i heir number to continue unvaried
while the j pra'dfife with twice thsir former skill
of new laborers, they will, in the course of
twelve m nthb, prepare double th quantity of
manuMcflutes. Thus, by auamemiig the dex
tery of the workmen, in the proporti >n bef re
mentioned, you double the gross inrflmebf the
m nufaflurer, while you increase his expences
only by the price of '.he additional gross mate,
rials cnnfiim din the wrklhop A fniilar ef
fefl is produced by the •ntrodu'flion of ufeful
machines. Rams of thefr, eonftrufled atafmall
exprnce, *ill, when managed by a few fkilful
artifis, perform the week done in a particular
IBanulaitnry by two or thr e hundred workmen.
Now, how arethefe machines at d artifti to be
procured? The anifls acq ii e the r ikili and
riextcri'y by praclice and they invent their ma
c 1»"« to expe'i'e and ptrlei) their operations.
Theartifts, therefore, can he found only v,herc
the arts a r e praiVifed, and as they alone under -
(land the management of the machines-wUiefe,
even if they could ba procured alone, whijh is
for the moll part impossible, would be useless
when fc pa rated from the former. By import
ing the artills, you render it unnec. flary to im
port the tnach nes ; they can afterwards con
flruil them, or dittcfl other artists in their fab
rication—Herce it appears that the high price
of labor, which prevents the -rtabliilimeHt of
inanufjiiories in America, can be remedied on
ly by encouraging the immigration of f reign
srtiil:. hether any improvement in lkill and
dextenty, would enable the aris to flourifh in
Amrrica in the prtfent llateof htr population ?
is a qittfl.oa not eafi'y to be determined. It is
poitihle that the <>X;>£nre njceflary to eftabi.iih
and fiipport them would flil! be toe great ; or,
in other words, that the flock of the individual
would ftili !>e emploved to greater profit in agri
culture than in any other art. There is, how
ever, one K<n, existing in this country, which
leaves on my mind but I Ule doubt, that with an
acccfli.JS of fwreign artifis, and the introduction
of valuable m chines, almost any ait might be
pradlifed in tie United States. We have some
Mr President, and not others,
Thus we have nianufaCloi its of cotton in Penn
sylvania, and the art of (tamping both linen and
coitoH ci th is pia<slifed ihere to a very great ex
tent, but even ri Pennsylvania we have no wool-
Jen manufactories. In Englandthefe manufac
tories flomilh in the fame county ; and confe
queiitlv, the profits to he derived from employ
ing a capital in them mitfl be either equal, or
Vc y neirly so. If the profits of the cotton
inaiiutiflory g'eatly exctede lthofe of the wool
len, Hock, whtek always fetks the most lucrative
emp! yment, would ft 'W fr m the latter to the
former, and the wooltefi iiunufa&ory would de
cline /is to the gross materials worked up in
those arts, tlie whole of the cotton and a great
part of the wool are imported into England, the
the former from Asia, the latter, from Spaiu ;
and the manufactured articles are fold in the A
mtrican market. But we can, with the advan
tage. of a ftiorter carriage, undtrfcll the English
in their cotion manufaijliirea, and, yet, under
the fame ciuUmfiances, they can undersell us in
their Aoollens. Why? Bscaufe we have near- (
ly tqgal fk'll with the English, in the one art
but i hey surpass us in the other. This is the.
ot.ly atriwerthat can be g ; ven. The rude ma- ,
teruls uled in those arts are equally convenient ;
to Us, as to the Erglifii, and if either manufac
ture ha? an acvantage over the other in this re
fpe.'il, it is the woollen. Cotton is the growth
nf the Southern States only 1 , but the whole eoun
trv fui'niihes paflurage for and the wool
of thefeju hith feed on the mountains of Virgin
ia is reputed to be feiperior to that of Spain im- i
ported into England for her finer mannfaiiures.
Since than the profits of ourcotton man.ufatflo
rv are fufiic jently great to sompenfate the high
price of labur ir. the praflice of that art, and
and those of ihe woo len wun'.d be as great had
our artifis greater flcill, it is a ncccfUry conclu
sion, that it is for want of fk'll and dexterity,
that the high price of labor impedes the praflife
of that art.
But to be convinced how highly fkilful artifis
enght to be estimated, and how indefatigable
every nation, rude in mannfacfluring art.should
be in i|«e*ertion6 to procure them, we need on
ly view the regula'ficns of different ftatei in re- ,
rard to to their emigration and the exportatioH ,
of their inftruiuents of labour—England has
*na£)cd the fe*errft laws to prevent other na ,
uons (mm profiting by their skill and lh« inveiv- ,
lions of her artists. By a jlatote of George the <
Firfl, itUdcereetl—»' That arti/icers going in- c
» to a foreign country aviei not rrtin'tring with- I
" in fix in' nth* after wifinng given them by <-
ii tbs Brrtilli ambaflidoi wiitxe lbey uM* shaH 1
" be dee.ned aliens, and "forfeit all their lanSs
" and a ,a*,e i.tkA-ta > s-'ot atiy egac.y or
" gi:t." Bv *flii(nte of George tht Second
" The captain o! the vessel in which such Jrtifi
" c»r i? trj»{pprt» i, rnrnr; for the ftr't offjnee
" a Tienj'.'y for every artificer con
'c witit to be sent abroad, and imprison
" rn-nt'for tmnntltj. and for the f-cond
" off;ncp a double penalty." And by a statute
of Ge rgefhe ' bird—\fly p*rlbn who ex
I " ports or attempts to export a-;y em'inesor ini
" plements used n pviiitfng callicoct, mufiins,
!< or linnens fh.ill forfe t and captainsof
*' and cuHom bou'it officers conniving at
" fti"h o!Te ice», ("o feit o, and become in
} *' capable of holding any ofii.e under the
' crown." bitnt'ar regulatio s, fom^Of which
are even inore severe than those already mention
ed. have been formed in regard to all other mi
* chines nftd in any art pracSiPed in Great Ilritain
e The exportation, even to the Americari colonies
of eveiy irnphrmrnt of art, ex
• cept «ne nf vervfimple eorifl nilion, is prohib
ired u»der the fevereff penalties. Othfr slates
have njade rtgulaiiopj limi'ar tf> those formed Ly:
* EnglancJj
1 f'tote Continued)
[ ExtrJft from an Address of the Ed'iittr of the
Aurora, to his Patrons
" '• he nCreafe in the circulation of his
r pnper has been beyo d the editor's moll
- fangJiint expeftationj; and since persecution
• has afTumed against him a " form and pref
sure," it has been rapid beyond par l'el.
Thus the daring hand of pcrf cutio i alr.ady
, counteradls its own del'gns ; disappointment
and despair may prompt to more audacious
1 ftietchesof illegal power—but under w t
' efrer form it rmy appear, of private assassi
nation or public contempt of the e'.lablifhed
principles of the cot.ftitution and laws, or
tne more congenial instruments of opprefT rs
pr,f tis, chains, gibbets, the axe or bow
string, it shall never /hake the firm dctcrmi
nation of the editor to difchnge his duty
confc entioufly : he may be a victim
to the dark rage of 'he worll enemies < f
our government and liberties; but it shall
not be said nf him, that he abandoned an
important right, guaranteed by the consti
tution became men entrufled for a time
with he authority of the people, dared to
forget their duty to trample on that righ',
and violate th t con itutioo. It be
doubly criminal in him to shrink before the
frowns of ambiti h or the malice of tit le
nWn dazzled by tlie glare of power, at a time
when the liberal support he receives from va
rious parts of tne United States, evince not
only the stubborn Confifteucy of freedom and
the love of truth, but a marked approbation
of hts pall conduct as well as a determination
to aid him in the arduous and expensive un
dertakiag in which he is engaged.
" The attention recently paid by his f'lb
fcribers to old debts and prompt advances
are marks of approbation the less equivocal
btca. fe unsolicited. and very gene ally ac
companied with the kindest ai d warmclt ex
prefli "s of edeem and frier, ship The edi
tor has had many struggles with his vanity
to keep these gratifying marks of att.-ntion
from his fellow-citizens within hie scut ire ;
the public tion of them would evince, that
all the calumnies of the enemies of liberty
in this country, have not deprived the edi
tor of the good opinion of a great portion of
hts fellow citizens. Of his efforts to rsnder
l is paper valuable, for correct information,
and the de eftion of ignorant eir fyllematic
import' re, he needs not speak—the detect
ed daily speak for him : his efforts (hall be
unremitting, to render it a compendium of
tifeful and entertai ing information, and a
f ourge to tyrants of every denomination."
REMARKS.
V.rious reflations are excited on reading the
foregoing extras. The encroaf. of fubferibers to
I'acht 's publications is a circumstance that merits
attention. , .
rheis are but few persons who encour gpubli
cations so boilile to the peace, liberty and inde
pendence of this country, who would not join its
enemies in fubvertmgits constitution and govern
mem, and facrifieing its independence. Bache fays
this encreafe is beyond his moll sanguine expecta
tion, and since he has been perfecutrd, •'has been
rapid beyond parallel." However faife or true this
may be, them is no clou; t that the m're feeent
and outrag.ous attacks on the govein'Tient and its
administration have been made in the spirit of cn
terprize and experiment, in order to try the Orength
ol the laws and to cXcite the lukewariti partiza s
of the faction to come forwtfl with their patron
age. If Bathe's aflerrions are true, he has fucteea
ed in bothol.je.Ss, fully in but partially in the
other ; although he fays p?rfecution has alfumed
"a form and pr»flure." I however such atro
cious calumnies are to pafiiwith such "aprijpirt,"
and the government remains uulbakcn, we mav
defy the univsrfe to produce a parallel for firmnefs
and liability.
ay the " daring hand of peif cution," is intend
ed the Legislative, Executive arid Judicial p-iwc-rs
of the UnitsJ States. I"hef.: poivtrs „r cunnte
rased by an of impudence, and an en
cre;.fe of fubferibesr— This impudence and this
patronage at" to drive the government to despair,
and this defp tir i< to ' prompt to more audi ious
(Ircuhesof >ll*gal power"—l hat is, 1 the Editor
of ihe Aurora, will so goad and belabor tine men
who adminiiler the governm nt, that the poor
creatures who place implicit coniidence m whate v
er 1 publilh, fhatj believe chat lam marked oat
for private aflalfination, or for prison chains, the
gibbet, the ax, or the bow firing, yea the l urki i
bow (Iring—My abuse fliall bc'fo open a d *ndif
guifed that it shall fandtioti the fullell credulity cn
the part of my dupes and adherents, of all that h 11,
and my Own heart ca,n iirg ■ me to pu lilh agiiwil
governr.unt of disunited States. While under this
itaercflion, they shall further believe that nothing
but cMfcii'ti out reiiitude could keep my "frm de
termination" from being ihaken. I'he people may
speak through their gents, and jart to trample oil
my right to abuse and belie their government and
its ageuts—hut I foall never shrink from my fell
purpof j to br ng the government into the contempt
of the people, and the jieopie into contempt of
thcmfelves—this ailion and re ailion mud pro
duce the cfF.it irtendsd j lor if the people can be
brought todelpife themielves, the way is prepared
for their subjugation by any iuvader. Thesncour
agenunt 1 receive, indicates progress in the work;
and 7<o«ld render it highly criminal in me to
shrink from the frowns of those whom I Ilauder
ed-4>efore the pcfcple eleScd ther.i, and whom 1
continue to a'-ufe as ambiiioui and malicious, be
c lie they are now ill power. Ni). no—At a
time when J receive such liberal support, from
various of United Stitei ; wr.en the «i
---ragi the cilfappointed, t\i,e ia&ioiu, the exelufive
patrfot», fcuhhoroneu in oppofitior. to '
all that coligrefs and the people have done, and are
doing, and discover such leve of Jvtrafirtth, and
such a determination to aid me iti r.iy expensive ;
Undertaking—At such a time, I fay, to (brink, Ij ;
!h< u d forltit all that 1 have made them believe I I
t£s !uses-it—f.U I nm ia thi O.iijr rrc 'f
nr j what! Jjitrc in reverfian, ihpv'd onr fie 'di th<-
[ _ ' French futceed.
ifj. i The receipt of pM debt*, r.nrt jirorsp- s-!van--;s,'j
ncc ( are mre than paying the UI;or;r his j ire—to mc .
, n . | they are marks of approbation. An<i whatever!
u n . ; the people may fay in puMic. 1 have ha.l s yrvii'. !
>n( j i with my vanity to retrsinfrom
ute ' n r '' l,J Aurora, what my friends fay ta m* frivatrfy ■
■ j rhifakioii e/Tufion>havchowever had
i *nr.e —they a e not HI upon trie ; ! have douljbd 1
I my diliyensi in my proper ; h/fldes which, ]
ns ' I have taken into my enp'.oy fjme of 'h:' h-!t
' 0 lified blaekguirds in or Ameri'a. Bft't s
' at j oripinals, the Aurora row a'mund* with thi rich
,n" cl fl wer« of billinglyate, falfhoo-V, antrcivar! n-,
| prophecies, innuondoes, and ftan'[er«, C 11! jifit
icll from the Argot. Cbrothlt an f Time Piece v —-fo.ne. : '
on- which are tranfjLi t - d into fhof; papers IrO ii t^ l '
it- Aurora hot Iv.ds. Ldo n'nrat present puMxftl thiift
aiii precioas pr-vate ti'ir-oniaU,—ths ti(V,e mav cortiq |
lies when it may h»afliiy odo i'. t conclude fi>r
cx the p'efc.it, with aUuringmy private j»atron» th.-t
lib- I 0 !■•} c irtinuctn en th m widi bji
stes "(tv. rnniesf of th's c juntry an . it*
[1 y an I a'tacujnzeVcryone rhat I am iufurm'd fpi-aks
in the people of •!;: 11 i of k
: the FreecTj dire9o y *, f,rr [ am a'fc >uige t-J
tyrants of tiriry d nonin ion, t xc-p; FreoJi.
the ■
KEW-YORR, Attgtid 2*?.
his INTERES • ING L XV CASE,
oft Ann burns, T ACiTON' of damages
ion J- for a breach of promise of!
ef X OHN Baker. J m a before the hon. j
lei. Jud?e Kt NT at th 3 fitti- gsheld after J.slr ;
dv term, Friday, August
crit Counsel fur the PLiin'ijf.
ius Mr. Harrison—Mr. Monroe.
t- For the Defendant.
ffi- Mr. Everston —Mr. LeE.
led Mr. Monroe, on behalf of the plaintiff,
or opened the cause. He ftat'd to the court
rs and jury, that his client was a you' g woman
w- of relpe&able family and connexions; that
vi (he had been addressed by the defendant, in
ity the charafler of a lover, who fought a con
im ntSion with her on honorable terms } that
of he continued his attention to her till he had
all ffefled htr ftdu&ion, and when he had dif
an cove; ed she was pregnant, had abandoned
li- her ; that the defendant was a man who be
ne longed to the society of the Methodists, and
to had introduced himfelf to his client as a
Vj preacher of the gospel, and under the cl iak
he of religion tffefled her ruin. He trusted
he the jury would mark fuchcouduft by beavy
le damages.
ne Thomas Ivers ivas the firft witness called
:a- for the plaintiff. He swore that he knew the
ot parties ; that the defendant was a preacher
nd in the Methodist church, and as such, be
an came acquainted with the plaintiff, who was
on hta grand-daughter ; that he knew him fre
n. quently to wat upon her home, and show
the usual behaviour and attentions of a
b- young man who was courting ; that he, as
•s well as her connexions, had' a high opinion
;al of his religion, for he was very much ac
lc. cuftomed to pray in the family, and to sing
x _ psalms, and it wa> considered hy hitn as well
jj. as her friends, as a match,
ty Roderick M'Cloud, the next witness,
on was called to prove the defendant's hand
e ; writing—which having done, the following
iat letter was produced and read in evidence—
ty feems to have been written in answer to
ii„ one, in which the plaintiff had informed
e f him of beiug out us health]—As the cor
f er redlion of it would be something or a task,
n, we give the letter of the preacher, verbatim
:!c et literatim,prtfervingjeven the spelling —lt
was address d f oMr.NancySirn,W'oodiitidg t
be Dear Madam,
0 f I had the plrafure this morning to Read t
| a few l-'ifes from you my Dearest friend in
>' which I had the Disagreeable News of your
illness of body with gratatude I inform you
that I am well in body and mind thanks be
h £ to GOD for thtfe inefteemabie bleffitigs it I
was with pleasure that 1 Received your let
ter but the News of your iadifpofioti pierces
li. my bread with Disagreeable and Keen Sen
le- fatiens of Sorrow but I flatter my felf that
ir ' it arifeth from tfce of your Journey
" and that you wll shortly Recover through
Divine merfy an 4 be reftor ed to your belth
en and to my fight but in this I mull Say Net
»s my will but the will of god be Dnne
nt I have not yet rone the small Journey that
n I expefted, a; das Sercumftances now is I
th dont think I fh'll Mr,, asbury ha* arrived
here and wishes ne to go with him to wil
a borough Confereice I have not eon-fentcd
however the time approaches that I must
, d have you with all that I ingoy fee neath the
0 _ fun and enter in, to an unki'.d World to
preach the gofpill t;f a glorious Redeemer .
lr or ellfe fare well lo happyntfs forever
:f " it is vaine for us to murtnur or repine at
Divine provideitde let u gladly Do, and ]
rs Sffer the Will ofgod our time is fh rt a,d :
e- is wafh'ng away ejernaty is R ling on a few .
v more Rolingfuns& and meeting and part- ■
" ing A i!} be 110 ti.trc 0 let it be < u<- anktioui 1
Care to fe cure an iuterefl ,n the blood of
ir Jesus that we may me t where parting all
n be nomore fore»ti|thare sickness and sorrow
,r shall be done awat
' it . O then, let our atfe&ion be wea ed from ,
things of earth aiid let our liarts be in he - ,
,1 ren Dear Nancy ei me entreat you to lay ;
(- aside thos gh my thoug!its Concerning the .
j 1 ingoyments of ths prefetit world and ftelc •
lt ' those i goymints which from a bovc by
it S iv '"g Chrill yowl liart
g but I iiiwfl feaa to wright my time and i .
paper sales and Now to the arms of a ble*d I y
'J i»g savior I Comei i your prilions ful a d ;
" body hoping that lie Who a lone ca Do the - (
II Work Will bring you >to sou dnefs of |
>t helth of body miid and foul & gide & j
Comfort you through this (hart lift, and £
'* bring ua at last t« ingoy him and each other c
(1 in a better worldand now may the spirit of ' [
-. peace and lo»e le with you my D,ar let j
; our love (-onftan)and though partid in body j -
0 Wee shall be prefcnt in mind and hart ; ,
j thin mountain! shall rife and oceons Roll ; ,
To fever us cn Vain j 1
a I an) your aff.ftionace ! ,
11 Friend j ,
i- New-York 1 JOHN BAKER. ! ,
* July the 28, 1797J ! s
e Ebenezer Doughty was next called— .
d He swore that the defendant told him about ,
e a twelve-month ago, at which time, as it ,
1 afterwards appeared, the plaintiff was pregr (
1 oant, that if a certain something turned up,
v
it? ilriuld be marred vrry fnortlr.—-other
v.-ife not in two, or three years i and that he
| vtsi scquiiuted with the circumftan<e of
1 (Ik d fctidant's visiting her, and being at
tentive pa .her. and f> her only.
< "/iilitwn Valjead f .y>sre tint he saw the
djfcjidant frequently visiting the plaiatiff.
' and attending particularly to l;£r ; that be
j him if lie intended to marry, and lit
j fit id he did hot know ; on which the witness
I adrifed him to discontinue bin viliis,to which
howevet he paid no regard, but went to fee
her as tifunl. At length it appeared he
plaintiff wa< pregnant, and cinrged it upon
the defendant—l\e did not pretend to deny
it, but said, however, on being asked if he
won d marry her, -h did not know how it
might b , but he could not think of such a
thing then, and begged the matter might
reft th„■ re til! he ,'hould come back from the
cou'i'rf, wh re he was going to preach the
goip 1- •
Margaret Marfan was then cal - d h< the
lall wttrtfs—She said that (he was prcfent
when tf.e Uef dant was foul for and told of
the plaintiff's situation, aid charged with
his baf-nefs 'o her, and reproached by her
that lie had fedtiod her under a promise of
: marrip.gr. He ad itted he was the father
j r.f the child, and as to the rell he replied,
! that he heft and godiieft of men had b.-en
} overcame ; that Ada-n and David, and So
-1 rnon had alfp fallen—-but that this was
all owing, however, to t!ie warmth of her
o.»n paflivmt ; and in fine, that if he had pro
mi fd her martiagt, she coul : rot prone t,
u.ir coulu (he recover any damages it she
did, for he was no-: w rth any thing.
Here the plaintiff's counsel relied the
catile, leaving it to the jury to prelu de
whether a promise of m iriiage was not fa
irrefillab'e as to entitle them to a verditl.
The counsel for the pieachri- opened the
defenfe by Hating, that they should depend
rnuchvon the failure of the plain'iff s proof - y
but if the jury theuld be of a different opin
ion, they fliould shew, in mitigation of da
mages, some ver) improper conduct on the
part of th plaintiff, such as no virtuous
woman cnu! I be guilty of j that they would ;
next (how that the defendant wan worth no- j
thins, and of fourfe it could not be cx- 1
petted that a Jsrsiiel for large damages
woind be given, even if they fliould 1 think
the plaintiff had made out her cafe.
Roderick M'Cloud.was then called again,
as a witness for the defendant. He was
a (Iced by Mr. J.ee if he was not knowing
to the plaintff having at some time granted
improper liberi es to a certain person ? He '
answered very readily, that he was knowing i
to her granting very improper freedoms in- j
deed, and such as he wa* perl'uaded no vir
tuous woman in such a situation would
Here he was interrupted by Mr Monroe,
who told him that such was very exception
able tiftimony, and that lie must name pre- !
cifely what these freedoms were, that the
jury m'ght judge of them—He was then
a(ked who that person was who had received
such improper favors ? He boggled a little,
and at length said he could no 1 answer that
quelli >n, as it affetied too nearly his own
charadler, but it being mged upon him, he
confeffed- that he himfelf was the prrfon.
He was then asked if he was not also a Me
thodill preacher? This he declined answer
ing, and his counsel attempted to support the
objefhort, but ,t being ruled by the court to
be proper, he was compelL-d to answer in
tjie affirmative. —He wasjihen a(ked tu tell
thfe jury eiadly what these freedoms were;
this seemed to trouble him ftyrely ; but after
a little hcfuatlon it came out, that (he liad
permitted him to wait upon her home, four
or five times, and /« iifther,znd he had
once laid his hand on her neck ;—bnt it ap
peared from further examination, that (he
had refilled him even when he attempted to
kiss her, and absolutely refufid him when
he attempted to take any further liberties.
He acknowledged this was after (he was in
a state ps pregnancy ; but denied that it was
produced t>y any preconcerted plan between
the defendant and himfelf; or that he had
donc.it with a view to inform the defendant
of it or afjiti him inlhis cause. After be
ing interrogated by Mr. Monroe about
twenty minutes, ar.d going through what
may be cai}ed a/m ating process, he was per
mitted to retire,
James G.pnrlay was called to prove the
defendant's e'rcumilances, which he swore
were qu:te penurious, but that his father
might be w <rth 3 or 4COI.
The evij nee being closed Mr. Evertfon,
for the defendant, arose and addrefled the
jury in behalf of his client-—He said, he
felt himfelf mvommonly at a loss what to
fay in this cause, which he thought was
not supported by trftimony ; for tlic answer
>f the defendant to the plaintiff, «• that (he
:ou!d not prove chat he ever promised her
rtarriag , w.isvery equivocal evidence that
He had—thai the plaintiff having pr.jvcd
:hat (lie was a person of refpcdtable con
letfti ns, and rat 1 r above the
nilead of h<vi g th cff-.cl to l'ncreafe the
Jamaica, ought i t last to lessen them ; for
t fhewtn, !-ic~ ' ad, n<it loit an opportunity
jfmaking « very good match. But what
iveigheq ni-.it i.i his mind was, her own be
lav our, which he cyttld not but confidcr as
«ry,rcprehenlible— that it was a maxim in
aw, that a plaintiff Giould always come into
:ourt to aflc for juttiee " with pure hands,"
"■tit as to this person, it having been proved
jy ihtir own evidence, that she had had a
-hild by means of illicit commerce, they
:ould not think her a very virtuous woman,
but that htr behaviour to the witness, the
Rev. Mr. M Cloud was in his nihid a for
feiture of all character—for a wonian who
iva3 courted by one mar, to fuff.r another to
wait upon her home, to kiss her, and fondle
with her so much as uven to lay his hand
upon her neck, evinced, he would fny, " a
nolent propensity to concubinage and
no virtuous woman would .do it, efpeciall)
it tie age of fivs a:id twenty) when the
palfi. ns may be supposed it; some measure
Lo have cooled. He concluded by recom
mending to the Jury tr coufider the dpfen
dant'i circumftiafvs,
Mr. Harrifon then rose, arid in a speech
of about h ih m hoar, addrefled the jury in
that eloquent and impreffivc manner, which
iiveay. charatierises that gentleman when
fieak'ing tmdeiv the eonvi&ion that head
vocates tfi? cailfe injured. H'told
other what express hirft
felf on interefting occasion. It
was his duty to drip the a {Turned cloak of
religion from the shoulders of villainy, and
expoft it to the world in all it* naked d«"
formitv. When the garb of fandtity Was
bjg-owed for the vile and di-telfab'e pur.
pose of feduflion, wi>en the f ct? of devotion
was pet on to accomplish Ihe o'efign of en
ter! .g the unfufp'cting roof of hospitality,
and planting a dagger in its vi»al», no lan.
-giaifc entiM Jo jofticc to the fnbjeft, or
give expression to the indignation that he
Celt. He would not, he fw'd, detain the
jury by a minute examination of tfie tcfti
mony ; he submitted the force <>f it tq tVem
in full confidence that they would readily
discern where the truth lay. Ag to the
pitiful defence which h d been set up, that
(he had granted impropei liberties to ano
ther pei-foii, at a >ime when (he had receiv
ed promfe f marriage from the defendant)
he was u labl'e to fee as the gen'leman on the
otheT fide had done the great crime in it,—»
it was to be remembered that the witnffs
| had b. en r ceived by her as th; friend of
I her and confnlering hid extraordinary
app ar.ance of fanclity, fhc could not ti.ink
there was mm h harm in granting him the
liberty of kiili g her che:k—pejliapfc afur
relirtance—.perhaps in a 'rolicklunne muod.
As to the pl-a of poveity in the defendant,
if that was permitted, all morality would
be at an end. it would on y be for a man
to fay he was poor, and could not pay d;i
---i mage-, and lie might commit any crime
| with impunity. Since it had arrived to
j that pass, that public tcach.'is of religion,
I inllead of felting a pattern of virtur, exhi
| bited the mod flagrant examples of vice and
! infamy, it had become the duty ofc Courts
| and Juries to exert all th ir powers and all
I their infl;ur>uce-to prcferve th&mwalk of the
'
| faying, that if the J«ry did not mark this
rase, by a verdict of exemplary damaget, he
was very appiehenlive of the pernicious cf.
forts it would have on focie'y.
His Honor Judge Kent, then slated to
the jury the Jaw, as :t applied to the fa&»
in the caf , and gare them a summary of the
' evidence; he observed that ;hey mud not
j permit their feelings to control their jlldg
! ment ; but it was for them toconfider <f it
did not appear irom the tellimony of Mc'
Cloud, that there had been a plan con
certed! > seduce and ruin the plaintiff by two
' unpiincipled hypocrites—but they were the
I proper and conlUtu:ion»l judges of the fa£is
and he left ihe whole cause i,'. their handl.
The Jury brought in their verdict next
morning for plaintiff— damages 750 dollars,
Th; following patriotic addreft has been U
nanimoufl, agreed to by the legislature
of thisftateat their ntefu? fefllon,
To the Prejident of the Umted States of dmc
rica.
The refprclful address as the Senate and
Aflembly of t ie slate of New-York,
SIR,
PERSUADEDthat it was the doty
and iutcreft oftheUnited States to preserve
and cultivate peace and a good underltand
ing with all nations, weunanimoufly approve
of th ■ metres you have taken for that
purpose with refpe .t to I'ranee,
Ihe manner in which our ministers of
petice and conciliation have bfen treated and
rcje&cd by that Republic, we conftdcr ai
an/infr £tion of thclaws and usages of civili
zed nations, and as a violation of that C»
quality of foven-ign rights which ought to
(übfiftardbe maintained between them,~%
1 he indignity offered to our nation by that
| treatment is greatly aggravated by pecuni
ary requisitions. On tliefe topics we can
not reflect without surprise a d indignation.
Wliti) to tliefe considerations are added,
those extcnfjve depredations on our com.
merce, which no amicable overtures for ac
commodation could induce the Dire&orytO
forbear or suspend, we think our fitu»iio»
relative to t'iat repuUhe, ft> fertous, as to
render a general expreffijn of the public
fentimeot iitdiipe nfable.
Bung a free a, d independent people, we
are determine! to remain so. The Condi
lutiou of the Uniled States is the deliberate
w< rk and irec ehgtcji.pi tbe people, and we
will at eveiy haxard maintain it. The gov.
crnment of t!;e l T niteu Spates results from
the conflitutian, and being admiuillered by
men conllitu ioitaijy chnfeti and appointed,
(hall in all its constitutional and lt?:;al pio
ceeuogs, receive our dee'ided support.—
And wnatever differences of opinion may
have existed among us on l.ica! queftiom, o>»
tliefe great points, we noitner 8«, por will
be, a div d.d people ; but . n the cchitnrv,
it is cur unanimous resolution, at the rflk
of 011: lives and fortune, to and
defend our nati v al h* nor, rights and Indc
pei.detic. j , B(;ainft die French Republic and
cvtry otiicr nation ard pow*.*r.
We aje convinced of the necefiity of uni
on among ourfcives, and (ball regard thofo
as unworthy, who at this momentous junc
ture of our affairs (hall attempt to diifemi
nate t- icord among the reopitr, who while
united, are able to repel the attacki of any
enemy that may danito invade our country.
i his (fate, £>ir, will in every event, and
to every extent, bear her full proportion of
national burthens in full confidence
that due attention wi'l be paid to the (trong
claims (he holds on the national defence and
protc>£tion v '
We caurtiOt on th s occasion omit txpref
|* r, g the we derive from the si efli
in. lance of great and disinterested patriotifnv
winch your illuftijous preJeceflor has niani
elted. He has been, and may lie long coo -
tinue to be, the inftryment of great good,
and the <-r.ampie of great virtue to his fel
low-citizens. You «lffl have flrorg and wellftutnded tlaims to their gratitude. May '«»
kind providence enable ycu to add to thetVi
by fnchcouncili and rntafuresas will speedily
fecu'e the bl. (lings of honourable p.*ace to
our nation, and td yourfelf thi; honoilr and
f.itisfa£lion ox having wifely and fuccefsfully
fulfilled the duties of your exalted and im
portant station.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
BOSTON, Aueuft 25.
CJ- THE NEWS.
f Front the Salsm Paper of yefttrday.]
Yelterd.ty captain Besom arrived at Mir
blehead from Bayonne, in France. His
original destination was to Bilboa ; but he
was taken by a Fifnch privateer, within a
Ihort fail of bis port, and carried into Bay
Once, where he found l umbersof his coun
try men atid other neutrals, the viftimsof a
fyllem of plunder, which disregards every
principle of justice or morality. An indis
criminate co - demnatioii of captured proper
ty was carrying on ar Bayonne ; that taken
from Americans and c?>nde'"ned, amounted
to nearly a million and a half of dollars
Capt Uef°m lofl his cargo, but by some
compiomife retain-d his ve'fel, in which he
brought home forty of his countrymen, and
saved t-'nem f om the alternative of e'teritig
on board French privateers," or starving.
The pretexts frr were of the
molt trivial kind, and amounted to nothing
short of i> declaration of war against all neu
tral property.
They exptfted, at Bayonne that these
aits of rapine would finally rouse the Ame
ricans to war, and thit in confeqncr.ee their
Weft-India colonies must fall ; but these
events they difiegardtd as of no impcrtance, j
•so long as thcie was commerce for their pri- j
vateers to prey upon. New privateers, from ]
16 to 20 guns, were continually building !
and launching, and they were profeffedly
(Jeftined against the Americans, at whose
condn£t they affe£t to miich irritated.
But the merchants, and peopleof idforma
tjon, who were not imecUjtely interested in
privateering, discovered uneafinefs at the
v present state of things, wticn theytfir-d to
ex press their fen '.nents, and appeared to
fce both tired of their government, and\
afliamed of the injuries which were heaped
tipon the Americans.
The military themfelve', who are diftrib
•uted throughout the country to keep the
people in awe, begin to murmur ; not at the |
cause in which they were engaged, but that I
their pay was considerably reduced.
There was a good deal of talk, at Bay- :
onne, of an expe£talion that Spain would !
■withdraw her connections with France.
This would be extending the field of pri- I
vateering, and encreafing the emoluments of |
the direftory, who receive 15 per cent of i
. the amount of all prizes.
Capt. Besom has favored us\vith French
papers to the 16th of June.
By th* Clef du Cabinet des Sovverairis of i
ths lothjune, it appears that the French go- |
vernment had received an Englilh papercon- .
taining the dispatches from the American
Envoys to the President of the United
States, which were communicated by the
President to Congress on the 3d of ApaiL
In confeqtience thereof the following letters
passed between Mr. Gerry and Mr. Talley
rand, —which letters are also published in
the said paper, after a long, iajfdiotis, and 111
many refpe&sfalfe, commentary on the dis
patches. It does not appear that the dis
patches theinfelves have ever been published
in Paris.
Interejling Correspondence.
The Minister of Exterior Relations [M. ;
Talleyrand] to Mr. GERRy.
Paris, May 30 1798.
1 communicate to you, Sir, a London
Gazette of the 15 of May (old style.) I
cannot learn without surprize that some
perfidious perfon< have availed thettifelves of
the retired manner in which the Envoys of
the United States chose to live, to make
them pvopofitiors and hold with them con
ventions, the objedl of which was evident
ly to deceive them.—l beg you to let me
know immediately the names of the persons
dtfign3ted by the letters W. X. Y. and Z.
and also the name of the lady whom Mr.
Pinckney declares to have conversed with
lum on American affairs. If you have an
objection to fending them in writing please
to communicate them confidentially to the
betortr. I rely on your zeal to enable the
government to investigate these intrigues,
of which I congratulate you on lot beiVg
the ejl'pe, and in your desire to fee it per
fectly fatisfied.
Mr. Gerry's /Ittfwer.
Paris, May 31, 1798.
Your letter, Citizen Minister of the 30th
fnft. anel the Gazette to which it refers
have been handed me. ITie last contains
all the informal negotiations communicated
by the Envoys to their government.
If unauthorized pertons have come for
ward, or if having limited powers they hav£
exceeded them, they have abused the
French Government ami the Envoys;
I nra net competent -to judge of th's,
as they did rot produce any docu
ments whatever to prove that they were
authorised to treat with us. The publica
tions in qtteftion fuffice to show, how very
delicate my lituation is, with refpeft to the
tia-ries cf these persons, and they contain
eirctimftances which I hope will enable you
to investigate the affa'r without infilling
upon further commtl'iicatio' S from me. De
fitotis however to dispel suspicions by which
innocent persons may be «mbarraffed, 1 have
no objection to- declare that three of the in
dividuals alluded 10 are and that
the fourth zdVed only as a mellengjr a n d ii
terpretor. You will observe, Citizen
Minister, the extreme reluftancc of the En
voys, to this inform il mode of treating, by
their reply of O&aber 30th, »o cercam pro
positions, that had bee.i made them. Ihe ,
ift of November thsv* determined to put an j
end to such comflnunicatioos, and have kept !
their rcfclution t in opposition to repeated [
attdfeptfi thjt hare been nude. They ne
vertheless confidw it their duty to commu
nicate every thing io theirgovernrnenr.
Accept, C tt'nen irfinijltr, the
(tjfuronr« of my profound efleim.
ELBRIDGE GERRY.
J ,3e hJiniJler cf Foreign Relations to Mr.
Gerry.
I liave received, fir. your letter ofydtcr
day. You inform me, id, that the Ga
zette presented you contains all the infor
mal negccialioiis commii'iica'fd by the En
voys to their government ; 2dly, That the
persons in question have not produced to
your knowledge any document whatever to
show that they were accredited ; That
three of the individuals alluded to (viz. in
the trder I. have placed them IV, X T,) r.rj
ftranijtrs : the fourth-, that l's SfJ hath adted
only as a m.ffenger and H
Although I tully Conceiv&'of your r liuS
aece to name these ptrfons, I mull pray
you inllantly to fabjttt it to the importance
of ihe objetSt : pteafe either to give me
their names in writing, or commu
nicate them in confidence to the bearer ;
name the woman that Mr. Pinckney allndet
to ; teli me if any of the chizens attached
to my office, and authorial by me to (ee
the Envoys, have said a word that had
least affinity to the dilgulting proposal made
by X and Y to remit any sum whatever, for
corruptpurpofes. "
Mr. Gerry's Anfvver.
Pitiif, June 3, 1798.
CITIZENS MINISTER,
I have received your letter of the ift inft.
in which after having repeated apart of mine
! of the 31ft May, you urge me immediately
i to yield to the importance of the objeft**Rd
( to give you, &c
! As to the persons deCjnattd by X, Ya nd
Z, I will forward you their*«ames in writing
under my hand and seal, if you will ajfure me
they Quallnot be published as coming from me,
although th 3 mcafure does not appear to me
neeefT ry todifcover them—arid Z informs
me-that he will mate himlelf known , as W
has r«ver. faidsa word td me relative to X.
or afry part- cf our c'omrtftiuication, t prejjW.e
that (he maiiifeft inconvenience th;.t wotted
refult to me from relying upon mere hrarfay,
it a fufficient excuse tor omitting his name.
I cannot give you the name of any "wo
-1 man, for nootii has had any political con
i fcrence with me since my arrival in Paris.
As to the citizens attached to your office
j and authorized by you to fee the Envoys in
I your official communications, I cannot re-
I colleft one ward from any of them that .had
the least relation to the proportions made by
;X. and Y- in their informal negoclations,
' to pay money for corrupt dijlributions.
j Accept &c.
The Minijler of Foreign Affairs, to Mr. gek
rt.
Paris, June 4, 1798.
! Sir,
i Your letter of yesterday 13 just received.
You may address to me in perfedV confidence
the nanes that you announced under your
hand and seal. 1 assure ysu they ifhall not
be published as coming from you.
[The names have in faft been lent to the
Minister, who inllantly depofi.ted them with
the proper authori'y. j
A fetter follows the pTecedfng, fioiti hf
HauUval, by which it appears that he is the person
defipnared by Z. *iui itvwhieh he reprefcnts that he
afted only as jpieffcnger and interpreter m the com-
I ln'imcations tlTai paHed di>eclly between the. enwys
and lbc.minijlcr'.—lt appears from the, commentary,
i iirinrrmf nuni.cd, "hat Mr. Gjtßitv was viewed by
; the French government in a very difterant from
Mess.-a. Pinckney'ao4 Marshall, .jnd.-bv re
maining ire Paris he' involved himfelf in the jibove
morutyin,;, It noUdcgrading correfpoiidciice.
Reader ! Pleafc -now to rend thedifpatches
from our envoys to. Paris, three moths (itcc.
It you have them not, fend tuimcdr^i;!j and, bor
row, or buy it.
Paris, June 15.
We believe that Buonaparte is already"' at the place
or his detlinasion, and that the Englilh a.Qrniial who
i» allowed to have no more than ic'Slips, viill'r.o'.
have been able to overtake him.
The United States of America are threatened with
a revolution. The fiieDds.of liberty furious against
the Senate, and above all against the Prtlider.t, who
openly efpoufea. the cl'jle of the Englilh, to the de
trimen' of the Great Nation, dilavotv their condufl.
The Houle ol Reprefeniatives partake ia a great de
gree of this indignation againtl ihe accomplices of the
Biitifh cabinet; and hardly will they wait the elec
tions, which will take place in the autumn, 10 de
stroy their 'at.il influeuce. [Stsrr'<j of this kind have
bttn fe often fcM from America, that ae Imit no doubt
thvy ait really bdicied in France.}
NEW-YORK, August 29.
POSTSCRIPT.
Just as this paper was going to press, a
gentleman handed us a Greenock letter of
the 21 ft of June —t 'ays, " this morning's
accounts from Ireland ilill continue favour
able."
It appears too, from the official details in
the Courier of the 19th June, that
order is about to be eftabliftied in the norrh
of Ireland
The Irish infurgerits in the counties of
Down and Antrim have thrown down their
arms and given up their leaders—Monroe, a
famous one, was executed oa 'the 16th of
Jure —he was the county Down general.
The following paragraph is from the Glas
gow Courier of the above'date.
"Talleyrand Perigord the French minis
ter for fereign affairs, has at length publish
ed in the French newspapers, a laboured,
though a flimfy and pitiful jollification of
his conduit on the late a meriean negocia
tion at Paris, in which, after describing the
causes of difference bet x ecu the two repub
lics, he difavo*s all knowledge of the mys
tical inti,ign'-*rß who made-t'ie Corrupt prdpo
fitions to the Anjejican envoys ; rtfcflefts fe*
verely 011, the harsh and unaccommodating .
1 ehaviour of Messrs. Pinckney aqd Mar*
(hall, who lie fays, evinced the gieateft pre
judices against.France ; gives to Mr. Gerry
a certain degree of impartiality and a detiie
to listen favourab y to every thing that
mighi ter.d to rect>ncile the two countrie :
and concluded by afciibit;g the cor.dust of
Afneiicu i ) tl«v en i ma! of tat
Briti/h cabinet. We (hall lav th's curi us
publ C3lia.T b.fojrc onr reader , incur next."
E.-*traß of a letter few G reenter 'to a gentle
man i,i tjAc cay y dii 't 7 June 20.
" V* M rot-c ou yc'ffrday/10 we re
fer. W r litr«j j rt mte h a.a-ttied for the ftafe
of irefaud, a wn{i f.-rrni* rebellion having brok
en suit ; and many having taken
j»'are with th v * trirtpv, in whkh ?he Re
bels were tn force, an i their
| pumV*r-, not*-i»h-t 1 <ini- the loss they fufiain
: ed, appeared ro He lift enccrafing, We were,
; howeve'-, verymueh relieved by a letfer we re
ceived tiiis c\*ev:in£ froff: ou»" cotTefj ondent, a
you writ pefcenre by the annexed extracl
tnrre(rrtrri« everv thing is in a train of hei»?£ set
vii-d h.s having his into Bel'aft
abaft 3
in tiierr-, Fis w'fs about thsrh to
Scot!3iid. &»>W« ti.at r hc North is we
are pretty consent the Sourhjfocb wiilbe also."
Ext raft froth tfrc letter mentioned.
Belfast, June 18.
41 M via ft was on the 14th, which 1 hope you
: have received. It was writtc •at a ferrous time.
; I however have now the pleasure of in fur mi
« you that every appearance of Rebellion in the
J North seems to beat an end* and the leaders
< disposed of. So confirmed am I in this belief,
1 that I am tVu day lending back my family and
! furniture to my feat in the country,'about a mile
from town, where I hope once more to enjoy
peare and comfort. In a (hort time, I have no
doubt things will come routid here. To day the
D-.'rham Cavalry went on to Dublin, as did se
veral other regiments, general Nugent having
no more o( cafio'n for their afTifiance Both the
counties of and Antrim are tranquil, and
I our markets again tolerably fiippl'ied."
I Tt is with high pleasure we ibform the
public that his mr,jetty's frigate Androme-
I da, captain Taylor, and sloop of war Lynx,
! captain Hall, have taken the following
(hips crnifmg On ojr coast with a view of
plundering our trade—the former a French
corvette of 22 gutls sent into Halifax—the
latter, n privareer of i 6 guns and a schooner
of 12 guns, which are both fafe in Bermuda.
ExtraS of a Utter, dated Mole St. Nicholas,
<c We had-Vfeiibu* duack*irom the Brigand* here
ydierday morning, ihey carried a pol\ we had estab
lished on the top of a hiiJ, where they appeared abaut
thiee weeks We had about 60 men defending
the poll, b-jt bein£ of different nations, a number of
tln rn defertcd to the enemy, of eourfe the charge was
left to a few Biihlb troopi, who kept Up a retreating
fire, until thry got into the garrison, we 101 l a tew
men on this occasion.
" The mortms, immediately after our troops came
in, began to play on the enemy, which drove them
away from the post in a few hours, when we again
took polTtdianof it.
" We were at the fame time attacked by * Or 3000
Brigands, in a place called the Gorge, which stood
a deal of refinance, a continued fi'e being kept up
for a considerable time—We have loft very few
troops on this occasion, the efiemy has 101 l a number
both killed and taken prisoners—our troops were out
after them last night."
Died, yeftcrday morning, in the 23d year of his
age, after a fbort indifpofuios, Wm. G. Glint
worth, Esq. Deputy kegifter in the Court of
Chancery^
On Sunday last, in the 49th year of his age, the
Rev. Benjamin Forster, D. D. pallor ol the
Baptilt Cou.ch alTembJintr in Gold-ft:eet, in this city,
after a fbo/t but pain!\l illness, which b; bore with
a patience and resignation becoming the Christian and
the divine.
'His strenuous attachment to the liberties of man,
his exemplary life and Christian deportment towards
men of every description, the doftrine he pr-ached,
his indefatigable tabors of love in season and oiU of
and the" blefli .gs th«t attended his miniliry
to laid chuieh soY near teu years, together with iome
of his lall dving words which he uttered to a mioif
tering brother a few hojis before his death, in which
manifefttd the most unfttakeH in the
mercy ol God, through a Mediator, without an ap
parent doubt or intervening cloud, exhorting Him at
the fame time to up the importance and reality
of the Chf iftian leligion as the only ground of com
fort and support to a dying person, canr*ct" but induce
ail who love the Lord Jelus Christ, aad the bcit«ved
chfjrch, to have him in rcmemb«ancc; and
wiriJe they lament their unfpeakzble iofs, conclude
that death to him was great gain. And perhaps had
ilw infidels of the dav, and the feoffors of Ihe age
been prelent, to have beh"ld the calmnefj and urm
nefs with which he expressed his profpefts of eternal
glory, they would have been conitrained each oue so
(ay, let me die the death of the righteous, and let
mv last end be like his
Notice is hereby given,
THA T application will be made to the Troafn
ry of the United States, for, the renew d of the
following Certificates of Sjx Per Cei;t Funded
Stock, {landing in the name of Jc6i Cqrbonm. of
London, the said Certificates bavin# 'en loft* on
hoard the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
Kalmouth.to Mew-York
No. 3072 1 Cert, for 2000 dolls. ~f
2964 1 do. jood |-
10,577 I do 3000 J
Willing* & Frattris.
Philadelphii, «ugufl 30. eo6w
City Comtniffioners' Office,
Abgust 30, 1798.'
IN pi rfuince of an ordinance of the Select and
Couimon Councils, palled I he Ud day of May,
Propofalsin writing will be received by rhe Cit)
Comii.ifliom rs for one montk from th* firft of Sep
tember neJtt, for letting to rent oa leases for one
year, to co r timence the firft day of Januajy next,
the following public property of the city—
The wharf .-.r.d landing on Viije Ureet,
Also on SafTafra*,
N'«ulberry,
And High ftrcets.
Chel'nutan ; W l iut streets, Drawbridge, with
the Scale and Fish houses, Spruce, Pin« and Cedar
ftree.s.
1 he Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the middLvferry on Schuylkill
with.the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the u!c of the Collector of the i'olls, or he
neccfl.try foiLthe roll gate* )
A ft;.tcd meeting of the City Cnmmif?icnert> wif;
be hdi at-the City Hallevary Tuesday morning t
ten o'clock, during theprele!\t epi.dsmit 1 eolpi
Twenty Dollars Reward,
LOST between Germanto»-n am! the middle
Ferry, oh the 29th itiltaiU, i Small Hed
Morocco Pocket containing Bank Notes
to Ihe amount of one hundred anti fifty JJollars
and upward —ftveral otkerjpsJjerjthat can be of
Vn use 4o any o*htr person but the owner.-—-
AVbofoever has found said Pocket,Byok and re
turns it to Fnfirn George W. Stall jt the Caa;p
cear Sfhuytt.il! ih;ll receive the above reward,
and uo-quefti ons sited,
atlriift 30 6t
~^~Ihe~CO^IPiING-H()USL
•{MciTr-. IJk-klin fc'tJKiM-iTfi.i* removed to thi
refidencw of P. N:ck!iß, ':car the l : ajls of Schuylkill,
augult 25. <J6t
Cije
PHILADELPHIA ,
THURSDAY EyENlNG,Avgijt 30.
CITV-HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 29th to 30th Augoft.
ADMITTED.
Barney Me'A dams Marketftreet
Peter Cimnrn^iiam
Geo. Cou'an (lonp Industry Penrofe's wharf
Wm Souga:i Wat-r llreet below Smith (I.
Henry Litidr. ick Sippen ft above Fourth ft.
Thomas M'Gawan Fourth !V. near Plumb (I
Hannah Scargiil South Front Street 1
Michael Cooper Relief AlleyJ a 1 -
Cliarlotfe No. 4 Court * I -.(i{
Elih.u Meeker No. 300 Front flreet
Henry Shrtim
Gcorg: Shrum Corner Front & C'allow
hili Street. *
died. -
John M'Cabe 4 days ill previous to ?.d-
John Lambert 6 cio,
Fdvv. Callaghan 3 d<J.
Nat. Kerr I do.
Hugh Dougherty 0 do.
Hannah Scarpill 8 hours after admifiion.
BarneyM-Adam.f 3 do.
GeUrge Cowan 4 do.
Difchargfd— Cured.
Rachel Davis—John Robinson—-William'
Grry-—Mcfrs Care 11.
Remaining in theH' fpital 67, 20 of whom
are on the recovery.
Interred in Hospital Ground.
F'om City Hospital S
City and Liberties 16
Total 24.
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
SAMUEL COOPER.
JAMES THOMPSON, Steward.
By order of the Btxard of Managers,
Wm. JONES,' Prudent.
Attest,
Wm. Penrose, Clerjt pro t»m.
Buried in the several Chu'cb burying
grounds, exclusive of those at the Hospital
for the 24 hours ending at 8 O'clock last e
venirg—ls adults—3 children.
FIFTY-THREE new cases of the prevail
ing fever, reported by" 19 Physicians, for
the last 24 hours.
DIED—In New York, of the fever, Hm«y
Haydock ; Aaron Shar»less, formerly of Ches
ter county; Francs j Shannon, (a native of lrc
lind) late of this city.
John Morris, Robe kt Evanj, of Peterfburgh, in
Virginia.
At Germantown, on Tuesday, Mr. Jo
sehh Douglass, of this city.
Murphy, Innkeeper. Lstttia court.
Also, the Wife of janu t Ker.
W etiierell, broker.
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tents, near Schuylkill, for the
use of the P»or.
August 29. One cart load of vegetables
colleftedby theclerks of High
street market.
Fifty bundles ps rye II and
6 bufliels of potatoes ftom
Mrs. Lo^an,
% One tierce Rke, from MelTrs.
Simon ai d Haynr.an Giatz.
.By order of the Committee,
PETER MiERCKEN, Chairman,
Augiijl 30.
The Committee w ho have charge of the Ten's
will be nihch obliged to such of their fellow-j
citizens, who may I ave any straw todifpjll- of,
if they v.'iii bo kin i t to scad it to the
Tents, on thdeuftyltoni near the gowder Hnu r e
.is tht fanve is much vjn'cd to make the fituj
tion of the Poo l- cqrtifortah'e.
By order of the Committee,
KEI £« MIE (CKE.v, chairman.
Mr. Piiickney tvas at Lyons the loth
June.
Tletuiien 0/ tbffiepte-ff tie UnihJ-Stata, ai Sfetmrei
Ly tbe'jr thmurh tye co. trn-r/, b n rlr'rj:n
tin foreign faiihn tc —Tb/ir tiutlneft •> d:jciv
crcd in the foi owing dircft and ope? (HofcfttiM for
arming ajrai.'jl the government, wlftk appears in tot
Au. s a of this r.crniiig.
It behoves every republican who Values the li
berties of hi' courtiy, his uwi> fecurny an ! that
"of his family, to rruvidr. hiSETeif with mi, and
tj habituatehimfulf to'the con:!ant l-'fnof rhem
for the tenets - reached up !iy the wretcht's who sol
low in the train of our admin titration, are e*'cu
!at*d to convert tlv peopl: ot theft fr-c ila'C, into
only two cl.-.fr s—"Janifaries and Mutes.
It appears that all the honor of perfecu
'ion for violating the Sedition Law, will not
accumulate on citizen A urora - Several
dup:s of the unptircipled leaders of t)ie Ja
cobin Gang, ure in a fair way ot coming in
for snacks o the benefits resulting frotVi that
wholesome regimen.
It has been stated that cf the prin
ters who ha>--e incurred the penalty of the
law agair.ft fedltious publications, are to be
udemnified from a purse raised among the
aftion.—l 'ike this, fays a Corrcfpondcnt
it is but just thai those Who bum the fingers
of cats-paw printers, (ai d this is the fa£t
>*iih relpecl to almo'l every man of thcin)
should pay for the roatl.
At a rcfpetlable meeting of tfie Citizens of
Philadelphia, at FoJquet's Hotel, 011 Fri
day 24th Aug. 1798,
Robert Wharton, Esq. in the Chair, and
Henry JVitoJf, Secretary.
It vv;,s refoh-fil by the meetlhg tliat RO
BERT WA'LN, Be njKoinmcntltt! to hi,
fellow citizehs trs a perfnn*to reprr
fent the city 6 r Pflia K»r,fa in'tlu. ; House
of Repref'-ntat'vcs of tlie United Stales—
That FRANCIS GURN'EY, he recom:
mended to vlie citkttns cflitip fiijg the dif
trift of t!ic city a.d coutily of Philadelphia
and county of Dtlawfcre, as S ijator for said
diftiift: And that Latfrcnce Stckel, Jacob
! iilislieirr'wy ; C\ r :v t
triuej V.\ 1-iftcr, ui. ' file ...,•« Ml.
cliarJ l-eppt-le, be r'frtnraarc £ d {ft th» : f
fcllnw-cii ss fit pcrfor.s to re r.t th«
c:iv of Philadelphia in the of
fentatives of she Hate icgiOalsiixi
A* ft meeting of a numbet bf Clt'lW of
the Northern Liberties, at the hrtiffc iif
Mi. Samuel Gano, sign of Prefidctit
on V edticfday evening, the22d of Auifvftj
I7qS—
Mr. JAMES SIVA IN, in the Cha'r. a.id
Mr. Andrew Shuster, Secretrrv
1 lie Committee appointed on tl. .1 '."i.
Ilant, made r. port, that t 1 ey h?t; I . :»
confidence" with the fevcral deputaM ■>: n
the meetiigs cf the diilrict of R at v
Germahtown a-d Buftkt.>wn—atx!\i, of
n th? critical fitaaii.a. i
! cou try, -at pre&nt, il w.,s.
Rtfdved vbrtiimjujlj. That f.vrt •nr
knowledge of the • frvcal candwfcifA, j d
their being attached to ttie Ftfdira? v ;St
ment—and the known patnotifm, ir.tj,;rity
and abilities of the following gsntlemeni we
!ieg leave to recommend them to cur k ! w
citizen*, as fuitabje pcrfons for their fpp;-o;R
at the ensuing eleftton.
Sinatnr. FRANCIS GURV! V,
Fof the DillriA Composed of th i >'v.
and county of Philadelphia and t'ottvy >«"
I Delaware
Rebrrfcntative it Congrsfs,
THOB MIFFLIN.
, Fcv the county of Philadelphia ; and
For Refre/enttuivet in the AffemHj fir df
County nf P hUadlphia,
R'lffcaW Titr ntiar , Samuel Whit! r,
Charles Swift, Thomas F«>: : v J*,
I'rtdffiefe <Viiga(lus ■ Tiiomrs P.iui.
'Mngiileotjiujjr.
Published bvordrof the
JAM S SWAIv, Ch
Andrew S .ufl er, {> cvcrr.ry.
GAZETTE MARINE Ltjt*
ffeto-ToA Augi/fi :g.
Atrivtki, :
Ship Jan?, Gardner, Greer, el? Ci
Th: Fanny hat arrived at Creei.;- r i.i
30 days.
Ship Eliza has fa f e arrived at Faitr.- ,:"j
from Savannah.
Captain M.ix field left at Kirgfton ! r
Zenobia, captain W. S. Brown, to fait 111
tht»i2thor 15th of Augu J.
Yellerday arrived t'ie i'ehooner Prefi 'erf,
captain Bret, 6 days from Wafhingtcn K.
C. who informs, that the day before he {1 •
ed the brig , Wooden, of Eden to: 1 r: -
rived there from the Weft4 nrf.'ea, 1. g
been taken on her paifajre, a little t. ' c
fonthward Ociacock bai, Jby a French pr.
vateer, a prize mailer and 6 Frcnehtrv.-i ir.
on boafd, and ordered for a French p t,
leaving captain W. and two of his cr . ,i|
on board—captain W. afli.led by his iwrr
men, took an opportunity when the Frc c!;.
men were forward unarmed, to seize tl.tif
arms and rudi fv)t»ard, r. hen two <*f ti rr..
confci'>us ol their jsiult, and exptCVng to
meet the punifiirrent they merited, jut.:- > i
overboard, be then fecimd the other
hoiked out his boat, and made everv tiT,Vt
to lave tlf m, but in vain. Captain W ;.ot
b;ii»i' able to 1-oiO in his boat, 101 l her.
I'O ST-OFF ICE, "
Philadelphia, rfvgufl 29 1791.
I.E T IERSfor ilie Biiiiih Pack'", f ••
Falmouth, will be received at thisoflke ttn'
til Friday the 31ft inlt. at 12 o'clock rio'Jii,
N. B. The i. land poltage to o.li
mult be paid.
" Nnt TC~.:YT
Bank of North America,
August 28th, 1795.
| '- OA 1' Vcrfnns who h .ve *• o c4oi Li.is e<) jvty
X at this Bidk ir,' itfform. u,
That rtpilar Kotic.'s will he rut finder a fe .U'd
cover direct•-<I to t'ie paye; ar. J lor!-- I
in the I'nft Oißce ev r/ Monday until the rttur .
of tin cii ileus.
RICHARD '.FELLS, C.'Jb&l
_J'-S 2 9drl
- Removal to Germantovvn,
Frum 136, Market-Strert._
S? Richahd Bayley $z Co. for
the accommodation 1 1 their flit ndsduring the ji --
vail.ng fickneit iu the City, hive opened a it ro
opjiolite to Defior Martini, where they will find
an ixrjnf'Ve a.Tort-nejit of Chixtzcs, Muflltn, li
ble I.ir.e 1, an J ev ry other article in the Liiieiuiri
pery a 4 Habeidalhery lifie.
augftft '9 drot
W. Young,
BOOKS FL r; K & ST-srTIONFR,
INFOIIMa hi-- f: tendj and wholcfale Cu£lo*i?eri
in the country, who find it ti. en
r*r the city during the prefer!
will be received, and executed with .11 pafTi'.le dit
patch, at the
white hall printing oprr r,
in th? white building, above the Milef,o..e, ot
the Ridge-Road.
*.* His cuflom -rs hi the ci y arg aKo informed "
that the Store in th£ City will «e open, eve y dar,
Sunday excepted, from Nine uniil Out of the clo k.
:i ,1, w
FLOUR t'Olt SALE
By the Subfcrib rs.
t)elivrrable at anv of t i« porti rn the Dell
ware—wiio have a!f • m hand a- thur (to, i>, ;i
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Uorq—Lertcrr. h.
pcil will be a'tftijcd to.
Levi Ho Uingswortb Sen.
august «8 c '.{
Arrived in tht jhip ~Pfrn/y7vani<!, Capt. \Vi f
1.1 M son, Jront Hamburgh, noiv lyir r.*
Chejler.
A Number of GEIM \>! SERVAN I*3, met .
' » women, fcoy.i ,»ad g.rie, amount who-».•
Cur.ftniths, Carpenr rs, Tti.-nw,, r # yl«ir». t,U k-
G.irJcncrs, M.tibns, Hi n.trT»i«
&.C. Sec Whole tithe of Urtituve is to It dipped
o( on bourd the Ship, 1 v
•. GVti'N£r.& sAf/TK.
if'.
Ihe uftce at the iloatd 'of
uu :ar I,t < h Aru'rlc o» t L .- i trn
ty-rt fie. octv*e*n Grea'-Hritajn arv) t(j ■
I'nit.d St .te«, ii rfmovtd toihe booleof N2atih««/'
M-t o».nc!l, tfij. ea the Hax.'ori Rqj4,
august 16
■-»-V ' 1
■ ' iim Wil'iLands for sale by private Contract,
Propol'als will be received, by ilie loblcriher,
until the fir ft day of September next, tor the
purchase of any cf the following very valuable
tra&s of land with their improvements.
In the State »f New-York,
No. i. Two lon of ground situate in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
burgh, and diOinguifted or known oil a map ef
said town by the names of No. 71 and 72.
a. Two trails cf land situate in the town of
Wel-Chcfter, the one of then) near Oliver Ue
lancy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Urouhs Wiver, the othfr of them near
Devilard's fnufl" mill, Delancy'j land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole com-aiiiing about
84 acret.
j. A traft of land situate in the county of
Wefl-Chefter, on the road f.om KmiiS-Srioge
to DeWncy's Mills containing about 66i acres.
4 A tradl of land situate in Montgomery
9unty, being a part of the trail malted jeuiip'l
tirchafe and knwn and diilirlpuifhed in a dtvi
on 'jP Ihe laid p rcnafe ir,t-> townihips by being
art of township No, 4* beginning at :he S V.
oundt,of fai l p jrch ife ind at the southerly cor
ner of laid townlbip containing by eftlmation
about 5' t 5 aces.
t. A tra'.i of land ftvtiate in the county of
MonJi'nniei v. aforefaid, being a'lo <i part of
JeflV* pji rcliajfe arid known ailt'. diftingoilhed
in divitiort of tie f* ; d put chafe into townlhips,
by being u .rt 01 towmhip No. 11 beginning at
S. W.hcr-tids of said township at the ditlnice of
i6x chatu and 50 '.inks from the moll southerly
corner thereof.
4. A tr.icl of land situate '.n ITHer county,
hei 'fj' pan of the trail of land known by the
Itfmcof tfai Great or Hat denbufghs pa>«nt,con
tiinin : ab.ut 606 c aires.
7. A tra-l o' land fitu.i'e in the county of
tjtiler sforrlaid on the N. £. tide of the river
Delaware, being alio part of the lan-1 t rmer-
V granted to Johannes liardenbiirgh and others
Co mm only known l:y the name of the G'etn
pafnt it being a pai tof a great lot \ r o. 1 at
the general partition of said parent which came
to the share of 1 huna- fvewhara one of the
proprietors, and is knjw» and d liinguifhcd on
the mil- <>f the- iula division thereof made by
Chailes Webb, surveyor in the year 1751 by
lot No 60 ; this land rims Tome diftsnce on the
fi'cr Delaware and ccitrliu about 3 .57 acres
8. A trj«H of land in the county of LTlfter a
forefaiti in thefomh lier-of !• t» in the Harden
fcyrgh patent being tl.e lot No. 12, containing
about 1 j,6 to a<"r<s excepting there,ut 310 acres
heretofore gran; by Uubeft K Livinjjfton to
Wath-aiiiel S?<hel.
9. A tracl 01 land situate in the county of UI-
Jler, H: g'.miin£ ort the Papekunk river, and ad
joining tne 14th niOTutnertt in the general divi
fjo , of the Haidenburgh patent, containing
about 3 ico acres.
zo Tyro equal ufldivi'''d seventh parts of two
levrra! parcels of lands situate i:i the townships
tif Chetr.Ung in tf.eccnty <# Tioga on the S.
W. fide of Tioga rivtr, the feme bting part of
« trail of about 10,000 acres, tlmfe two feventlw
rtain about acres.
Ij. One equal ?r.<! undivided seventh part of
th? Ti'u) zc.or.Q acre ti aci ill 1 ioga ccun'.y being
about i.SsS acres.
11. One equal and undivided fever th part 6f
feid «-3,oe«acrt trafl in Tioga county being al
i'o about 4,83{> aerei.
In tbe StEif of MaVylarfd.
13. A t i£i of larid . ow ci'.led Bayley'c puf
c'u!e in Prtire George's county, near to i b«y
0:' ccve called, ASorefiin cove, containing about
isii st;ies of pr.n.e l.md.
14. A tv-,fl of land called fortune Enlarged,
-anil part r.f a trait calleci Hea!l r s adventure en
larged, ho'rfi lying in t'riff'e Georg»'s county on
the cafitfi i-.tincb of the t'otomack, containing
about (is.;lcres.
15. A t'acl of iand with the house and im
provemeut cjlled A'on, lying on the eastern
branch of the rivtr Potomafk, oppofitc to the
city of wifiiSißtun ic Prince Gcorgt'i county ,
coiit4uing about ,j$ acres.
16. A trail of land wtih the hnufes, mills,
othtr huildng* and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the to'hty of Washington
qantainiiig about icti acres.
17. A trail of land I'.tuate in the county of
Waihirgtrn, adjoinitig to Fort Cumiierland,
4CO tires rtr thereabout^.
lg. One undivided moiety of a trail of land
in Allegany county, called spruce spring, the
-»holeo wh-ch contains about Ito acres, also
one undivided moiety sf 13 1 trails or lots of
g..>und, eaeii of which, contains about 50 acres,
ami are numbered from 500 to 799 inclulive.
outing and excepting three lots which aredif
t-inguiif ed by the nurnberi 66a and 684 aii
which fl'.d landsa-'i'>in.
111 the State of Virginia.
A trail of M»adow la r d with eonPderjble
Improvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorreil's
e. eek, Muddy creek and the river Potomack j
and adjoining'the city cf Alexandria containing
by patent acres.
Edivard Foie, auftiorveer.
Philadelphia, June <;th, 1798. " w
adver iis£ ME NT.
WHl'-RK AS David am! John Graham, late
of the city of Phi'.-. idphia, merchants,
have affigne.l ever all their tffeds, real and per
sonal, to the fu fcribers, for the beHsfit of their
creo.itc.to —
Notice is hereby given.
To all p rfons who are mtfc 1 ted to said efttte,
that they are required totnak.' immediate payment
<r their refpeilive debts to the afiignc ts at their o'
Cct No 61 Uock-ftreet In fadure wherco'.lega
m.cfur.s will he taken tor the recovery of such as
arc do' iriamdia ely ifcl arged.
Si'vK.K WAI KHU, ") Aflignersof
GILCHRIST, C David & John
GEOR-GE HLiMPHutYS, J Gkaham.
)uly 7. t:ln<- Tf-o.
FOR SJLE.
A THREE Story Bruk Ijaufe, on the north
fide of Spruce ftrect near Second-llreet',
adjoining the wait t-t Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by Daviil Lenox, tfq.— I lii's
luh:lc i» in coropleit repair with back buil lings,
confifling ota Ptaxza, Ivctthen and a hindfoaie
Diuing Koom over the Kitchen^
Assny Peif.in inclined to purchase will vie*,
the premife»,a .aore particular defciiption is con
iidered unneceiTa; y.
The term« or payment will be one third calh.
us e third in 6fc»oi)ths and M remainder in li
ajoKths with interclt. For futther information,
ii 11 quire of yOH'i' CH tiTG,
No. 11 Dock'Jlrett.
may 16
'i he Folh-Offic'e will be mov
e.'. on Monday the 13th inllant, at oi.e o'clotk
J>, M. to the N,ortb-lide of fciarket-Suet, the
li. Ithoufe vi eli of Eteventb.fin.tt, wheie Mer
chants and others are requeued to lend i r tht r
letters ; as tin. Lent, ijrri r: will be l'.opped
tkrrving lefurs out, af.e 1 that time.
" r ,t "l»Uul«/si>i%. nmtut ri.
n. iiuuit let,
In I'ourth llreet, uej.t ooor to the Icdian Qnect.
EtvtuireolKpntursMJtu, Isu.jS, Sout!, 1 10. t
f j«') *i
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Inference Company of North America.
lor Ihsuhanc* against Fi»«, on Dvusllit-g-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other B'lild'ngs (and
on Goods contained in fucli Buildings) diliant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common tufurances, on hazards of tfe firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
hall per cent, per annum. For extra harardous
rifques a larger preir ium will be required, which
will vaiy according to circituftances, feidom ex
ceeding one per rent, per annum ; but in some in
llances, where the property irfured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered tlill more so
by the vicinity of est ra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circtimftsnces.
Houses and Ware Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
con(lruile4,-fo as ti guarded as well as may be
against fires from w thin, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and cecrupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the Hrft
class,. a»d may be infttred t» their full value:
Mfo Good* and Merchandize, not o' an extra
haiardoirs kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofite<l in such building!, to an amount not ei
cfc'ing 4000 dollars; bv;t if more than thisfur.i
is required to be irlured in one tenement, an adui
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circtimflances. •
H. 'nfurances will also be made on buildings ami
pood ejtra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to th» rifaue. But ir is not e.'fy to arrange these
under particular beads or elaifes, so as to dcfcribe
each with the neciflary accuracy. Each eafr muS
therefore be decid-dupon according to the rVcum
llancesa tending it ; and thefi: circumftarces wi!i,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uy ttg t' eapplication
Buildings partly cOnftruiled of brick or (lone,
nrc p. efcrahle to these wholly wooder. And in
both rases, the flile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fituitcd, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are conCderaiious to
be taken into view. And withrcfpeil t3gootl»,
their terd»ncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are eioofed, ether
to commen e cr to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such slate to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhaly removal, or to be So
ldi in time nf confuDon and hurry, are all cir
cumlancesof weight; and the premiums muil be
proportioned accordingly.
Id. The fcllojving conditiont are to be under
stood I y the parties.
ifl. The fhfuratlec iVbrt binding till the (liru
lataf! pfem : una be paid ( but it lhall be deemed ef
fectual frorrt the time Of such payment andiiccp
•nnce thereof, whether the policy he immediately
figncd or not.
at!. Infuranccs mny be renewed at the expra
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pen£e< thsti the payment of the premium of the re
newed ttrcr. the tivcurftflaiicfsconthiuing the f 1 tie
as they were underflood by the Infur< rs at the time
the former insurance was made ; l>ut the payment
of the premium is efTential to furh renewal ; and
if the party ir.fured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; Ror can the infcrance be renew
ed en the former policy but by computing the
commehctmcnt of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The lubjeil of insur
ance evay nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance. '
3d. If any otherinfutance hemadeon the fame
property ; it tnu't be mude known at the time of I
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Good* held in trull, or on eonfignment,
May be insured as Cich in a separate po.icy ; but
they arenot ts be confidereri ;s insured athrrwife,
3th. This company Will hot be liable'or accoun
table for any loss or damage occifioiWd by any icf
elgn invasion, or by any military or ufitrped force
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion,
ed by guppowd'r, aquafortis or other thing of th
like Kind l;"pt in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Ds .ds Money, Bank and other pro
niilfary Notes, are not included in any insurance;
nor are paistings, medals, jewels, genii, antique
curiosities, Or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen
ty-Eve dollars each, to be considered as insured un'e
left particularly mentioned and by fpecialagiee
mcnt.
;th. No insurance will be made for a Siortef
terra than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
ve» years. Persons choofirg to tnfure for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeouut: One third of a years premium (hall
he abated tn like manner on an infuragce for
three year..
Bth Lolfes sustained by fireoa property infurej,
{hall be paid in thirty days, after due proof and li
quidation thereof, withoat deduilion.
A delciiption of the property to be infurod will
be exp <Sed with aadi application, to be made by
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well at
by th« owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and attefled belorc a Notary or principal
Magillrate, who will certify his knowle jge of the
parties and their credibility.
With rtfpetSl to Houses and other Buildings
jft. The site and position; deferibing the
lireet or road on or near which the building
(lands ; its contiguity to watet, and other cirj
cumftances relative to the extingurfhment of fire
in cafe of accident ,• and particula ly whethef
any and what fire companies are eftabl (hed, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
id. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, (lone or wood, and what part of
each, as we ll as to the olJtfide walls as in fide oc
partition walls, and their refpeilive height ana
thickne's j lhe style of the roof and of what
materials; how secured by battlements or par
ty wails'; what kind of access to the top of the
houle ard to the thinir cs ; wlitther any and
whit electric to'dj ; the nnmber and kind of
fire places ; and the kind ol dipctit for ashes.
3d. Ihe dtme-ifiops of the building' and how
divided, and the llyie in which it is finiihed so
as to enablc indifierent persons to judge in what j
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of the building,
and how occapied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, dr fat anf other, and for what pur
pose , also in efiimate of the value of thehcule
or builusng independtnt of the ground.
4'.b. T • c tit nation with refpeJl to ether build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leall one hundred feet
each way t what kind of buildings ire within
that distance, h ! ow built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel-
I Hgs for private families or otherwise: whe
ther Stay 4nd what trade or inauufaflofy is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles tiled, or uttally depo
sited in the lionfe, or within the dill nice Sifore»
said, aid of whai kind. 1
lUfpeiilitg good: is Houses, Warehouses, &c.
I. A pieneialdelcription of the.building i«>
which they arekepf will be Ctt.il'ar in
all refjMffUta l ' to thedit gertroni (ire, with that
rftjuircd (W lnfui»nce on the buildings th'cm
fel es.
j. p. defcriptbn of thekinds and tuture of
tiie goods, v» h .'ther in calks or othsr packages,
or opened ; .ind whether displayed in whole
picc.s or in t'h't tifu»l form for retailing:. And
if tie goo.'» vary materially in kind, a general
e. r iitii«te of the Vikie of each kind pf-ojJofed tj)
b,-inf jred ; bus in *«i< hft pirtirulaf Oiiixnt*- ,
nefi r.f drlvriptiou i* not rxpeiiletl.
j. Articles of the follpwng .ieetn
ed extra ttazardoua, though in ww
in whatever hwihi jig they mar l>e placed,
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol'n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, fiilpbur, hemp, Sax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable Wind opened.—
Grits, cl;:na ware or porcelain* efpecia'ly tm
parkt-d; Looking glaflcs, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by lud
den removal oc by rmnflures, or tiarticularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of file.
Letters poll paid, direiled to the Secrets'y of
the Hoard of Directors, Witt be duly attended
to. \n order for Infuranee accompanied by tbe
r.ieans of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
•tKe application contain an enquiry only, it Will
be attl wered.
By order of the Board,
EBESF/ZSU HAZ V!<P,
Office cf the fnfdfince Company e/"Nort'» )
America ; Philad. Feb. >, 1798. J
Feb. 14. lamtf
James C. Saml. IV. Fijhcr,
No. 13 APCH-ST*EtT,
Have Jor Sale
100 Calks beii refined Salt Petre
Eeft London Window Glass from 10by Sto
is by 10
Ditro Glass Ware in Calksaflbrted CDOfifiing
of pint and half-pi at Tpraibleri, Wine
GlalTes, Gotdets, &c.
Also,
A few Bales of Red; White and Yellow Flan
nels, Banes and Kcn.iall Cottons.
June 11 ;awt'
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fold for calls ny jofepli Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Co iper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—atid Jefle Evgns, Lumber
ton. Those who have ufrd them give them the
preference to any orherkmd, as tfery rSquire
less team, break the ground better are kept in
order at less ?xpence aad are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much fimplified and confilts of
b 't one piece of cast iroii, witii the handle* and
beam of w ioil ; they may belxed with wr"U»ht
lavs and cowiteis to be put on with llrews and
taken off aj plcafure
P itent right# for vending with !nflru£lions for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 61 % North
Fapnt-i'trect.
IVha hat for Salti
Or to Least for « term of Years,
A twti'.ser ot vahiabie trails of Land, we! 1
Htultcd for Mill;, Iron A'orksor Farms, molt
ly improved, 1\ i ig chiffly in the county of Hun
tingdon (lait of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them will please to apply to
John Cauan esq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Newlold.
j'lly 17 aiwrf
iVhils, Portage, See.
TO BE LEASED fOR A TERM OF. YEARS.
T~O he leafeJ, for a term not k.sthm 'hr-e,
nor more than seVen years, a V ALUABLE
PROP. RTY at the Seneca Fall*, ii the county "{
and (late of New Ycrk, cn the Banks
of the Seneca-river, two mi es weft of the Cayuga
ferry, and 1 teven O' Ge-eva.
This eftabli r.ment confißs of an excellent gri >
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
or carrying place, with bet ween thirty and
forty ttre< 0! land, under good improvement, and
a» much hiori in the vicinity, as may be required
for future improvement.
The grift mill is a handsome, sewaiid well fin
ilhtd building, of by JO feet, 3 (lories lv;h
and lun:ifbed With & rlin of excellent fiurr ltone"
and another o: tfopns' stones, 01 the hctt quality
—and the most approved boolts, &c calcul ted to
make all the different qualities of flour ior espor
tatien or for home conlumption : It is accefiihle by '
water from every p-irt of tht Cayuga lake an 1 Se
neca-river, 'as well as from the Splieca-lake—and
from its Croatian, commands a vsryextenfive and
encreallng ciiftom : The ttream on-which it
being the outlet ot the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in Wai:t of water ; and as it ha." been kept
working duiing the fev.reli season of the latt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by frofl :
Tbe saw milt is also new, situate : on the fame
dream, now familhed with an ample stock of
logs, of wbich a supply may at all times be pro
cured by iand or water, of the bed quality s
houfe is well calculated for th« use
of the miller, is new, and fufficiently latge : The
barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new >
The portage is j-4thsof a mile in length, aloag
the Seneca-falls—ovtr which were patfrd in the
lalt year, aearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this object is already produ&ivc of a
handsome income, which n uit be inercafir.g and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of thisfitustion,
mud be numbered the fertility of thefurrounding
country—being the b«ft improved part of the coun
ty of Onoudaga—tbe concentration of intcr
coarfe by land and water, the Geneffce flateroad
pafling through it, as w<il as all wa'tr c.-.rriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a m«tt eligible land (or a Store or
Tavern—The river and luk< s abound in fifli and
fowl, and the country with de rand ovh r gsme
Eefides the mills already creAjd at this place, it
is calculated for any additional v ater works that
maybe lourd neccff.ry—Fullir.g mill, baik mill
tannery, forges, &c. may be ere&cd at a f nail u
pence—-Iron pre may b« brought in boats rum the
Caytiga lake ; and it L tl «ughi to abound in the
neighborhood
The ttock on hand w : ll be fold to th« leflce. and
the cattl:, u't nfiis, lmith's forge, &c. may belold
or let the premises
If a ourchafe fliould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it will be i'otj.
Far tar mi of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil-
B elm us Mymberse at the Svneca falls, or to the
fubferiber, at Schenectady.
STEPHEN N. BAVARD.
June t < Tiw7.ni
federal iViiils,
A DJOINI N'G Georgetown, and the Ci"y of
jfjL Wafnington, will be offered at Public Sale,
on the loth day ot September next, at tint Union
Tavern,, if not prev ; oufly said at Private sale
Those millsin point of lituationfor bufinefsand
na ural advantages are genrrally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill ia
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
new, in which are ereilcd four pair of Burr taiil
ftones with e'.ev&trr-, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, comf 1 tely finifhed and eonllrucicd in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu
facture flour at the fame time. '1 he country mill
which is oreflea near the other, is entirely r.ew,
a lirong lionc building, containing one pair of
ftonrs, and built in such 1 manner that the fecoßd
pair rr.ay be put up with little cxpence. This null
n conveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry on
•Kte'nfively, country work, of which it gets a con
liant supply. 1 here is.belonging to the said mills
acrat of land, the whole of which will be
fold with the milts.
One third of the purchafc money will be requir
ed in fluty days from tbe day of fata, and far the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Furthar
particulars wi ! be mad ■ known on the day oflale.
JOSiiPH H. ROWLES,
of
JOSEPH t. KOV. LES tsr Co.
Georgetown, july ij. 33 —jswtt
AN ACT
Fcr :1* tthef of tbe Refugees from tbe Br'f.ijh
j'roi'infrj nf Cansda and. .VcT-'U-Scotiu.
L) E ii ouultd by the Senate aad House
" 1 ' 13 tf Heprefentaltves "f the United
States of America, in Ccngrefs ajfemblcd, That
ry la,:'isty tbe claims of certain pcrfafta claiming
land* lit;.lfr the reWsitiow of Congress, of tbe
twe i.tji-third of April, one thousand Seven bun
tired ant) eighty-three, :nd tbe thirteenth of
Apiil, one thousand seven linnii'fd and eijjhtv
five, :s refugees from the British provinces of
Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Department of War, be, and is hertby autho
rised and djrcdled :o give notice in one or more
of the pAiblic papers of each of the States of
Vnmont, Mafi'aciiufetts, Nrw-Y irk, New-
Hampfb'te and Pennsylvania, to all perlons hav
ing ch:tr>? under 'he said resolutions, to tr.nif
mit to the War-office, within two years after
the palling of this eft, a jull arid true account
of their claims lotlnS bounty of C -Bird's.
See. i. sind be it further enticed. That no
othrr p'etfons fhaJi be eitotfled to the benefit of the
pi.ovilVtos of this-'.*i3, than thofenf thf fallow
ing defcriptKirs, or ttieir widows and ben*, viz. :
Firfl, thole heads of families, am! finglr per- •
sons, not members of aryfir.h families, who
were rtGdents in nne of the provinces aforrf.iid,
1 .trior to the fourth chy of July, one thousand
i'even hundred and fcyenty-lix, and who aban
doned their ftttlementi, i i cofifetj'ieitce f hav
ing given aid to the United Colonies or States,
inthe revolutionary War agaiall Cicat-Brittiii,
or with intention to give fiich aid, and continu
ed in the United States, or in theirfcrvice, dur
ing the laid war, and d : d Rot return tp rrfide in
the dominions of the kitig of G-e*t-Uritain,
prior to the twenty-fifth of N vember, one
tli"isf:rid seven hund ed and eighty-three. Se
condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
f n> a» were aijlual residents, as aforrfai i, who
abandoned their fettlcnients, as aforcfaid, and
died within the United States, or in rh<rr ser
vice during the said war : ant 1 thirdly, all per
sons who were membeis of families £t the time
of their coming into the United Ststes, and who
during the war, entered into their fei vice.
Sec. 3. s,tii be it farther enalied, That the
prowl" of the feyeral circtimftances nec (Ta'-y to
entitle the applicants to the btapfits of thiaaft,
may he taken bet re a judge of the fiiprernc or
diftridl court cf the United Stales, or. judee
of tlii ft»preme»r ftipefior c<mit, or the frrit j»f
tire or Rtft jnjg>r of the court ot common pleas
or county Court of any Siate.
Sec. 4. /hid be it further enaHed. That at
he expiration of si teeti months from and after
tfc«_p<Minj of thin afi, and frbm time t time
th«r«Tt<r, it ftiall fce the duty of the Secretary
n> the Department of Wir, to lay fu:h evt
denceof claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the IVeafory,
and with them, pr ceed to examine the testi
mony, lud give iheir judgment what q iantity
of land ought to be allowed to th« individual
claimants, in proportion to the decree of their
refpedTive Services, facrifices and fuffirings, in'
cotifequence of their attachment to the oufe of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class a quantity not exceeding one thousand acres j
and To the ;a!l class, a quantity not exceeding)
>ne hundred, making such intermediate cljflcs j
as tbe resolutions aforelaid, and distributive jnf- j
tice, may) in thtir judgment require, and make
rtport thereof, to Cotigrefs. And in cafe any
furh claimant shall haff fu'lained such lofT»« and
iiifferings, or performed filch services for the
United States, that he cannot justly be t-iaff d
in any one gen-ral ciifs, a separate report (hjll
tie nudeo!' his rircumftances, together with the
quantity of iand that ou,;ht to be allon-ed him,
! ia.ving reierence to the forego'ng ratio : Pra
■viJed, that in coafiderinj; whit compenf tion
ought to be made by virtue of this all grant"
except military grams, which may have been
made by the United States, or individual States,
lhall be considered at the jnft value thereof, at
the t meihefame were made, refpetflively, ei
ther in whole or in part, it the cile may be, a
fatisfaflion 10 those who mav have received the
lame 1 Presided alfit, that no claim under this
law, shall be aflignalde until after report made
to Congress, M aforcfaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the pci foni entitled to the
benefit of this ai3.
Sec. 5. Be it farther tnaftei, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congrel's, which
ikall not be exhibited as aforcfaid, within the
tiQiebythis adi limit ltd, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Repref ntati-vci
TH : JEFFERSON,
l'ite-Prtfdent of tbe United Slates,
and Prefideat of the Senate•
Approved, vtfpril 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prejtdent of tbe United States-
Depofilcd among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of State,
Timothy PicKf*imo,
Secretary of State.
Cj" Pursuant to the above Ad} t No
tice is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April> 1785, to tranfinitto
the W;tr-Oi7ice within two years after
the pilling of she said Ait, viz. the 7th
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten
tion mui be paid to the rcquifitions of
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft.
JAMES NTHENRY,
-Svcretary of IVar.
■July *9 jaw6w
LANDING,
! At South Street ivharf, the cargo of the flup Con
heilicut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java CofFpe,
of thegiowth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In canhifltrs—for fate by
PETEK BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OPFIKS Flit SAVS,
I/O hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy id and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter cifks
Ma.kira in pip»s
Old Batavia Arrack
iu'v a . S.
Thij Day is Publilhed,
AMD Ukav 1- FEKMO, ( iB.CHHIIUM'' * t IT
AN ADDRESS
To the- People of Mary land
ON the origin, progress and pr«lc«t finte of
French aggrtlTton, with a {ketch of tiie mfamom
attempts to degrade tfie Government of the United
Statct,and fomt reflediofrsco tlte late proceedings
in Congrel's; written the !aft of Apjil in the pre
fect year, bjr s Mcsii-er of the Hotiie of Reprefes
tatives. $ jßJte XI
HAPPY DISCOVERY.
A ctiiaim C*re fir iujt alarming and dreadful
The Yellow Fever,
jAs tveil as airy other putrid fever, fever and
ague, and cfirr inveterate at J complicated dfeafes, by
the use of tic
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented in England, France,
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
where the mod adomlhing cures have been effect
ed' on persons judged iacarable hy all physicians.
In aTreatife printed in L»n< on, on the propertiei
los thi* powder, by T. Seymour, M. D lateChe
*mift to his Majedy, there arc dated two hnn.lred
cases, where this mod valuable remedy ha- proved
inlallibl?. in all linJ of fevers, plemrrjy, bi '\ty fux t
iterate tbtunalifms, fiatiea, apoplexy, parahjie, yel-
Imu jj Malice, ringworm, mums u children ard in grown
per/>ms f -whites, chronical headasid stomach aches, htpa*
tict a»d mephretical or Jiome cbolic, the tings evil, scurvy
end the mo/t inveterate and £C»-plicated venereal disease. U
is like*. ile the bed preparative for :ht (mail pox
and meafli's; ol (he greatcQ utility for young as
wcli as for cider ladies at tbc critical epoch of their
life. 'I he c fli acy of this powder in ieveral of the
above disease s I as been dilcovered Jiy chance, ao<t
so it has been in the yellow fever lift yr.r, by Mr.
Mahy, who curt-d several by only
t'joo of the said ponders, and loft not a tingle pa
tient which he undertook to eur;, as proved and
atretied by the htre annexed certificates whose ori
ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umtrella
No. 131, corner of Ch.fiat and Fcurth fireets, the on
ly place wh. rr these powtffrs arc to ha had, with
proper dirciHions for the use of them.—Price txve
dollars.
The ufefu!nef« and certainty of this remedy be
fo great for so many dangerous disorders, a»y
perf >n wi!hing to be provided with those powders,
will please to apply v-ry foou, as the quantity at
hand is rot very large, nnd it i» doubtful if for a
l»Pg time, or if ev *l any nth r genuine will b« im
ported, the f irct remaining or..y in the hands of
thi inventor, in Europe, and evtr eitig tonunu
nicated to, or difcovrr d by any o h<r perfco.
N. B In thi ytslfow and putrid fevws, this potv
der mud be tsken tha jecond, or at i.-ad the third
day
U r e the fubferibe-s, during the late fieknef, in
thi* city, having taken yellow fever, applied to-
Mr. Mahy far his aflillance, we do here
by certry, that by * certiin powder, caj cd the
Poudre Unique, we wure perfeiHy recovered from
the fnd fattl sickness, and from an experi.ntj of
the happy sffedls of the above molt valuable- modi
ciiie consider it our duty to make the fame tb.»wn,
for the benefit of pur fellow cltixens.
t Jones,
Myiu^O'Coniiur,
UTe l'u-ner,
Christen Rthccca Dow,
Catheriii Appfe,
Aim Orovsr,
William Bills,
David Williams, tirpnt'r,
William T Donildfun, malt-maker.
Mi". Mahy's Wei! known Plainer. for all kind of
wourds and fores, tn be had at the above direc-
No. (Vj flrset.
"i ji»» 8 jawif
D&>ERI iiiJ,
FROM ofiboart'. the Ship of war Delaware, ly-
I nig in Narttafketßoa 1. Jofepli 1-orter, j feet
10 inches high, ajed 48, born at Concord, Chef
tercourty, date ot Pennfylvaiia, fundy hair 'and
corny .exion
Wm. Moon, age! 15, $ feet 10 inches high,
r«i hair and fed Cdmplelion, born in l'hiladelptiia
—ihe only death- taken with him is 4 filit of fha
rine eloathic*
Whoever apprehends the said defertcrs, Ih J1 re
ceive t»n doliirt for each, by applying to
W. W. &UKROWS,
\Vants Employment,
A YOUNG MAN, who hasl"erv«d a re^u.
Lr apprentieefhip to the mercantile buli
nefs in this city, wilhes t» engage in a Cotiuting
house or offica -vrites a gcod hand and usder
nds accounts, can be rccimrnended and
leCurity given if required. Enquire at the
oihee of this Gazette.
jutie 21 i Jfvtf
~ General Poft-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails ef the
ITniteri Slates r.fli tht following routes will
.be received at this - five until the aotk day of
September next incliifiVe.
i. From Pittfburg P. by Cannonfbnrg, Wadi
ington, U'elKLiberty, vVheeline and Wills
town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
011 Mufkirgum, estimated 140 miles.
Leave Put&urg every Friday it t r M. and
arrive at Zines ihe nej(t Mortday by 8 ft*.
Rrittraitig- L> ave Zaras every Tuesday at j
A. m. and arrive at Piti&utg the next Friday by
ICi A, M
a. Pmrn Zanrs, at the mouth of Licking
Creek on tl»e MnlltingHm, by Chili< othe and
MalTey*s to MiyfviUe in Kentucky ; estimated
.140 rtiiles
L(f*ve Ztne» *very Tuesday at 5 a. m. and
arrive at M .yfville the next Friday by 10 A. m.
Returnhg—Leave Moyfville oVtry Friday by
t p. m. and arrive at Zanesthe next Monday by
2 r. m
fl-e eirriigie of the mails to commence on the
firfl dav of November next and rontmut until
he Rt-fl day of October iB6O. Payments will
be mjiiequartcrlj.
The usual peiralties for delays and failures ■will
be ilipulated in the cnntraA.
Joseph Habcrjham,
Pofl-M/tJitr General.
Philadelphia, July ij, 1798 m&ih6w
HEALTH OFFICE.
Jjl May, 1
Extract of an ft jl toalter «nd amend the Health
Laws of tkis Commonwealth, pa/Ted 41b April
1798.
o „ \ ND be it further enaAed by the au
e " XX. thority a(orc!iid, That every honfe
keepcr within the city ef Philadelphia, the tow l
fhips of the Northern Li'.iertie, aud MoyammCng..
and didrici of Snutkwark, within a mile of tht li
mits ot the city, taking in L>oarsc-sarriving ky leu.
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and h4-
vingany hoarder in his or her lamily, who thill be
taken sick <>■ any difeate whntfonvcr, between the
Bid day'of May and the fird day of 1 November in
any year', wi'kin twenty days next after such boai
der ttiall come to lodge in his ur her house, thai I
within 24 hours next alter the of such.
sickness. .Baka re[ ort at he Health.Oftice of the
name of such fnk period, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of h« or her being taken sick,
and of the nam-- and p'.'tc of ahod: cf such hpuie
ktcp r; whereupon tho Phyftciar. of the Health-
OCice Qiall forthwith visit the patient, aitdraporc
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, that rorafures may be taken to prevent the
(prentiing cf the mfedioo; and if any houickeeper
lhaU neglect to give information in the manner and
within the time afore said, and (hall lie thereof toa
vii3e4, in any court of CTuniaal jorisdiftion witl ia
thi* Commoiiwcahh vptirnndicfttne tby verdict
or caalefiiou, he Or Cit Itsll lorlei; and pay a fine
10 the u% of said hufpiul, not lei* than twenty
dollars, uor more than «ue hundred dollars, to be
impofkd at ike dibretion of the court, according to
the circamftauees of greater or I«6 aggravation a»»
tending each pmticular cafe.
By cri',cr of the Board of Health,
WM.4LI.IN, Health Officer, .
lawj,-*. ef tin tart si VSiladelphb.