Dmly dekwrtisek
Number 1728.J
Freight Wanted. < - )r
FOR B-REMRiV, i
The Hamburgh Brig 1
HENRIETTA, 17
Peter P. Schmidt, Maficr, *
T^'3l7 t it JffftMulil Walu't wharf—\ tl)l *
i\ fteut, (Wof(</ ve»ti;t of iVout iJO tons bur con
diet), in, good ord r ; lias two third* of her cargo
teady to ge on board, aDd begins to load to-morrow. w "
For freight only, apply ro
PRATT £S" KINTZING, «I>*
No 95, North Wata-ftreet. anc
Who have JUST REC El VET), and FO K SALE, a Pt
'II bale« Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
a do. Patterbornes
I do blrached Hessians
I package Oil Cloth
I fheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
J® Liquor Cases
a ) authors p "irl Barylt, -.nd
4 cases elegant Carriage Harneis, Whips, CI;
SpUVf, Ac. W
-—THtt HAVE TOE SALt SW
Claret in cafe. Pert ine m pipes Puffia Soap
in fwiallbexe*, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow G'afs, Slacks, a cargo of exccl'eut Mahoga
ny, Hessians, Brown Rolls, Poliih Likens, Cfpty
Coffee &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
rtvirch 20. tuthsiw
' ' For NEW-YORK, Ef
S aYa H, m
Captain Cooptrt. Rj
FREIGHT will be taken on very l»w terms, if pj
effered immediately. r
JOHN VAUGHAN- A
mqAl>.... - - $
Foi- NEW-YORK, * ~
The fiiwnfw, faft failing Sloop **
JmEW CONCORD, J
Stephen Cahoone, maficr ; J
WILL. take freight on very
moderate terms; for which, or paflUge (having
elegant accommodations) apply to the matter on q
board, at Clifford's wharf. ft
march i 6. . ; "so c ,
For Sale,
HARRIOT, k
NOW lying at Ruffel's Wart- j,
burthen •> 7 t«ns —three years old, built of the best u
materials and i« well found—would answer well 6
far a coaster, as she has excellent accommodations. y
For terms apfiy to
Gurney CJ Smith. -j
tHirch S
For Boston,
The Ship
jjtd&g- COMMERCE,
Richard Waiftccnit, Majitr. «
To fail in a few days.
Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on Vary mo.lerate terras , for which,
OC paffaea, apply to the Captain, or to %
Isaac Harvey» jun.
5, South VVater-flraet.
'to'irch la. §' ,
J?6k SALE,
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, is coppered, fbeathed and bolted, 3 y® 2 * 9
old, fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 b»r-
lying at South-ftr«et wharf, ready to
load PETER BLIGHT.
march 6. § TW
For Hamburgh,
THE SBt'P
Hominick Terry,
Jm? Jacob Dehart, mu/in,
great partof her cargo en
gaged.—Forfrright apply to
JeJfe £s* Robert Wain.
Ftbr.uary *6
Nicklin iff Griffith,
* 'At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
' H AT* FOR SAtS,
58 hhds.of Jamaica Rum
Madeira' Wine irf pipes andlibds.
Teneriffe do. in pip«s
Old Port do. in hhds. . r . n
Imperial Tea in quarfeVs and eighths eFchelt,
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8 .
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
iflbHed
©lack quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and craces
Yellow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
♦ship Diana, from Liverpool, expefled round
as soon as the navigatioa is open,
F\ne Liverpool
Coals
Spinilb Brown
' Venetian Red I
Purple "Brown 5
Patent White f
White Lead
Red Lead J /
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles ShesthiDj paper
Seaming Twine
S-hip Diana,
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. 11. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
i, now c h »^^ LlN y Griffith:
January x- —
For Sale or Chartei,
1 ic Snow
isrXj GOOD HOPE
Will carry about iaoo barrels, and
ready tetake in a cargo. For terms
,pl " , " Pr„ : er, Of C,.
No. 15 J, South SeCOBd-ftreet.
Who have for fait— prime St. Croix Sutjar
a&J Uum, Madera, L:fti>n, and Teneriffe >*ii)s.
November 7. d " ■
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 24, 1798.
On Tuesday, the ioth day of
April n(xt, at 7 o'clock in the evening, it Fr
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be exposed h» public fate, fevena j V
or parcels of land iituaied in
town-!hip in the <y«nty of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fmtSoufand f-ven hur/-
dred and sixty-sour aero and tliMt
with the usual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, i-j of the purchase money on
the execution of the deed, j-; in three months,
and 1-; in fix months in gowd nates or other
approved fecarity
CONNELLY Sf C«. A*a. ■
March g iawlndtlca
~ IMPORTED,
Iti the Brig Ben j amis Fr a* mm, from
Boutdeaujt, '
AND FOR SALS BY THE SURSCKISER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a fupcrior quality in boxes and bafocts
Lunelle
Sauterne ( Wine, in Cases.
Macarty, and (
Medoc J L
/ Thomas Mvrgatreyd,
No. 11, Wilmit Street.
VHt) HAS ON HAND,
Brandy in pipes lutitled
IriOi market ") .... • r > to
Medoa, and Saa*erne 3 inCS m a *' j drawback
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bagß
Two trunks of IJonbrellas, and
About 4000 bushels L iverpoolSalt.
march 19 tnwftttf j
Forrrrt^r"Cmnirtit&[
fsvsral forgeries hive b
mitted in .this city by one or r o pc.-. -
known by the names of Dr. Grant, a ..t. 8n •
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a gre !
tall in putf»n, and genteel, had loft one or two
> tieth in front ; lodged, about July, 1796, at Mr. „
' Grimes's tavern, at the George, in North Second- j
flreet ; his friends live in New-England ; fuppof
. eil to have committed several forgeries in New-
York, and is said to be confined at the wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for dealing watches. The other /
is a short, thick man, by the name of Gilbert, —
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. Bignall, and seve
ral other peffons in this city. Information given
by arty person of the above men, to Wll, P*est- ,
J man. No. IJ, Sowth Fifth-ftreet, will be esteem- I
ed a favor. Gil'.itrt is between 20 and 30
' years old; yellow, sickly look.
mirch IT.
Red Clover the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE, ,
Old, a#d fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine, i
And, Window of which will be fold
on v«ry reafonabU terms, by
John Craig, i
r, No. 11, Dock Street.
march I xrkrlf |
r'HE term of Co-paftner(hip between the Alb
fcribers, trading under the firm ef John Mil
lar, jun.and Co. expires this day, a*d by mutual
w Cenfent wiH not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those mdebteJ to the
are earneSly refuelled ta make payment to, with
oufdelay.
ld JOHN MILLER, jun.
rs ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
r- February 19 § tr
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Saj-ly, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR S|LI BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
j 800 do. Ginger
1 jo bales low priced piece Goods.
;n _ J"*" 1 MiUer, Jun.
march 3 . §
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
Na. 3, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrah9 MimpodiCs
Baft is Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda Coflacs
Guzzies EmertifS
Us Blue Cloths Caliqeci
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
ta- Amongst them are a great proportion of the mi
nufaflures of Pataa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rom.
February 19
nd Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerftip under the fira^f.
Alexander J. Miller ESs Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country, that
they h4ve opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
a« No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeplng a general af
fojtment of Indian German, Irijh, French and Bri
tijb Manafa&uresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cafli or a (hort credit.
February 19
The Comniifliontrs
FOR carrying into «ffeA th« TWEN IT- FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, l.imits,and
Navigation, betwejn His Catholic Majesty and the
United Statts of Am.rica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned —!hat in urder
to terminate all differences, on account of thelofT
es fuftiined by the citizms of the United States, in
confequtnee of their Vessels nd Cargoes having
been taken by the SuV jeas of His Catholic Majei
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc s.
that they are ready to receive their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and eu« o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by tht said
Article, dur/ng eightbbN months, frem the day
" „f the date hereof, arid that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as c«me before them, on
uath or affirmation, touching the com laints in
qucftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, a«thentica<«d in such manner as
, they shall think proper to require or admit.
an " By Order if the Cimm'Jfur.ers,
rms PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
eumwjfumer, Office, So. 109, Mulberry
fir c.!, Mat IJtb, 1797- , ,
t- J Feb. iS,'9B—;,im
ijrar *,* Tbtfe Printers in the several States irbo puhi'/Jh
ins. Ed the Mve advert,fiment loj} tying, are rebuffed to
re-pMiJh it one month, and fend their MtovnU to P. L,
' 1 't/' 1
By John Fenno, N°* ii 9 Chefmt Strut.
LANDING S
Fnm sn board the Sehocner Raxgsr, from
Jjchjjsmi.,. Pzt
Bags,
samiILHAYS, ;
No. i»7 Chefnut street- g t|
'Who hrs remaining on hatd pieces In
dia NANKESKS, ofa fuperi# quality. tar
March ij. d6t " '
Just received,
FR O M r6 R T-A w-r aIH Cr, L
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS, mj
110 hhds. Coffee 1 her
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do "J !
*to hog!beadsof Mufcovada Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hog&eads of Molasses P r
4 bales of Cotten 0(
2 of Cecoa Sc
WILLINGS W FRANCIS, ,u
Penn-ftreet.
march I».
Landing from on board the ship ra
TennelTec, capt. Smith, from Hamburg, an
And,FOR SALE by the Smscribsrs, te
325 pieces Quadruples Silcfias T
400 do. Platillas «
ioc do Creas u
52 do. do. Ala Merlaix, ■<
100 do. Dowlas
to do. red striped A raMas g
4" 'to. blue Guingas r<
u ->ren uprdercd Handkerchiefs f.;
F. -it & Lewis Billmann, It
W&Sk
IS*, Hani), ~
intcd Muliin* and C&Uccks
ta- §St p
11 cfli I'eas. IJ
a<
JuJ Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, r w
Captain Cooper, from Cantos, 1«
And For Sale, by il
SAMUEL HOWELL, e
At his Comptiwg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, c
and *v "
SAM. E. HOWELL, c
At his Comptiog House, Crooked billet wharf, ®
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young t
Hyson, Ply fan Skin, aad Imperial TJSAS. e
also, (
China Ware, aflarted; black and coloured Lute- I
firings and Sattins, Naßkeens, Raffia, large garden t
' and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas, <
whale-bone ftieks, (
Th'v have also For Sale, 1
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna HanJkerchisfs, ,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes. <
j inarch 8. §_
T, •morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Janes, from Bordeaux, ,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC 7Of tht vintages of 1790* nd 1791,
I- LATOUR j in cal«.
.1 ALSO,
1- WHITE WINE, of tht vintage »f 1790
TOR SALS 8 Y
PHILIPS, CRAMGND Co.
l ~ march 7. §
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, No. il, Penn-ftr«et,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
- John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confining of
n Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Cofiaea Punjura Cloths
Sanahs Gumydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cljth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmols
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pawia Hlifs.
_ Giaehams Malmu de.
Gnzzeuas Bandannoes '
Gtirrshs Sifieifoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romais
Salgatchys Sooty do.
1 Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
' Mock Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings If Francis,
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to fait at that
s commodious ftere the north weft corner of
3 ~ Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours,
February 8. dtf
ROSS ysIMSON,
HAVE FOB SALE,
„f A few bales Baftas, Colfas, and
a quantity ef Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, £ RUM.
V J
1 . 300 caJks RICS, rfd
rt A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
If oa z 7 . <
_ Landing
Frem oft board the Snow Maria, frem Copen
-5T hagen,
nd A few Tons Ruflia Clean Hemp
he 300 pieces Ravens Duck
on 2so pieces Rnfita Sheeting
ler JO o bolts Rufiia Duck, and
fl- A quantity of Swedes Iron
in . For Sale by
"g JOSEPH ANTHONY tf Ce.
lybohaveon Hand, *
W> ill and ad proof Bourdeaux Braedy
3e 4th proof'Spanifh ditto
*id New-England Rum
lay London Madeira Wine In Pipes
to s , C and quarter Casks.
on London Market j
; n Old Claret in Cases
-It- 14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
as Best Bclhm Beef in barrels
Mackrtll in do.
Halifax Salmon in do^
A fimall invoice of Rhode-Iflatid Chwfe
Spetraaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
1 No. t# 2. Biofton Sail Duck
■ijh- RufiiaCordape, and
Ito An Invoice of Dutch Hollo* wlafs A are.
% March x. i» w
Schuylkill permanent Bridge, f
F.xtrait from " A<3 to authorise the Governor _
of this ComraoMineahJi to incorporate a com pa
lly for crcci u*j » pcraisi-ent Bridge »v-r tkr rt- j
v.-- fcWyltrtl, Jt or 3t»r Ac nty .of PbiUdi;-.
phj*." ~v ,a . 1
_ ItK it therefore eroded ty the Senate a*t.'
tC - *' 1j Thrift Of Representatives tjf the Cavmo*- *
veeaki »f feng/jflwij in-General and it *'
is htrely tnaStd ty the aesiiorsty tf the f"*e, l
Richard P«ters, John Perot, Go :si < r Haga,
Matthew il'Connell, and William .iheaff, ur any
three of thorn, be, and «rr lieTeby appointed Com
missioner" to do a:id perform t»ie several duties
herein after njentior.ed, that is to fay :
i They (hall and may, on or before the flrtt day .
of June next, procure one or more books, as rhty
(bail chink nec<.lT?ry, and therein enter as follows,
viz.
" U**, whose names are hereunto fubferibed, do
promise to pay to the Prelident, Dirtdors and
Company, for er; t| » a bridge, over the river
Schuylkill, at cr nearthe c;ty of Philadelphia, the
sum of one fiollar at the time of fubferibing, and 1
one dollar in thres. month> chtrcaftrr ; fur every *'
Jharc of flock in the (aid ccmp»ny, let eppefite to e
our rdjpeiiiu names, aad the thereof at the P*
rate of ten dollars for ea«h (bare, in fa#h manntr J*
and proportions, and at futie. times a* thai 1 b» de
termined by the Prefideiit ar-{ l.treilors ch- fell in
perOsnce of an a& cf General entitled,
" An to autberize the Governor
" ntonwealth to incorporate a coonpany foi ereil-
" ing a permanent bri.lge over tht river Schuylkill,
at or near the city ®t Philadelphia**—and iball
thereupon jirpceed to receive fuiifcriptiuii* for tho
Sock 6f the foid cpmpany, which it nsrcifcy dcclar- .
ed aftd intended to bjtthe sura of one huedred a:«l
sis;)( thoufond dollxrs, dividedir.to fifteen tho|faad
ttaius,, at lea dojlirs each, at ftijh times and plac
es aJHfccyibaH tbirk proper) of jvbiclj public t.o
be pm, ic Htm *■ more nt!*ffiJ'V»
(one ®f which Ciall be in tb« sifrmati langu« n) j
printed in rhe city of Philadelphia, for at kaft
twenty days beforo the firll day of meeting. And
if before the said stock be completed, they (hall '
adjeern for more than three days, notice of the
time and place when and where the Conimiffioncrs
will next receive fubferiptiess, shall be given in at
lead one newspaper, printed in the said city ; and
it shall bf lawful for any person, body politic, or '
corporate, to fubferibe for as many (hares, not ex- '
, ceeding one hundred in one day, as he, (he or they
shall choose ; provided always, that every person
offering to fubicribe as aforefaid, ih his own name, 1
or any other name, (hall previously pay to the at- '
tending cjmmiffioner one dollar, for every (hare
to be fuhferibed, cut of which (hallbe defrayed the
expences attending taking such fubferiptions and 1
other incidental charges, and the remainder (hall
■ be paid over to the treasurer of the corporation,
i as soon as the fame (hall be organized and the offi- I
, cerschofon, as is herein after mentioned ; but the j
fold comaiiffionerß (hall reserve three thousand [
flares, which (hall be appropriated by the Prefidcnt >
, and Dire&ors, and used, if the fame be found re- j
• quifite, (or the purposes herein after mentioned, of :
veiling therein the monies to be applied for a fink- ;
ing fund, to freethe bridge,and toenable the Presi
dent, Directors and company, to pprchafe there- ;
• with, if the fame can be done, a fcite or place for
sredWng a bridge.
Such of the said reserved (bares as are not used
for these purposes, to be open for further fubferip
' tioo. or sale, as the Prefidcnt and DireiSors (ball,
according to circumftancss, deem proper.
Setft. i. ylrd be it further entsSed by the
authority aforefaid. That when one hundred
perfons,or more, (hill have fubferibed five thou
sand (hares in ihefcid (lock, the said Commif
" fioners, refpetflively, shall certify ender their
hands and seals, she names of the fubferibers,
and the number of (hares fifbferibed by, or ap
portioned to each fubferiber, to the Governor of
this Commoawealth, and thereupon it (hall and
may be lawful for the Governor, by letters pa
jent, under his band and ftalof the (late, to cre
ate an erefi the funferi* ers ; and if the said
ftibfeription be not fuil at thofe alio,
who fliill afterwards fubferibe to the number a
forefaid into one body politic and corporate, in
deed and in law,'by the name, stile and title of
" The President, Direftors and Catnpany, for
erefling a permanent bridge over the river
Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia
and'by the faid-Jiame the said fubferibers (hall
have perpetual fncccffion ; and all privileges
and frarichifss incident to a corporation, and
(hall be capable of tak ng and holding their
said capital flock, and the increafc and priijits
thereof; and/of enlarging the fame from tune
to time, byinew fubferiptions, in fueh manner
and form as.they (hall think proper, if such en
largement (ball be f«»nd necefl'ary to fulfil the
intent of this aft ; and of taking, purchasing
and holding to them and their successors in fe«
at simple, or for any !efs eflate, all such lands, ten
of ements, hereditaments and ellate, real and per
fsnal, as. (hall be necefliry and convenient to
le- them, in the prosecution of their works, jnd the
fame to fell and dispose of at their pleafare; and
of suing and being sued, and of doing all and
~ every ether matter and thing, which a corpora
tion er body politic may lawfully do.
The fubferibers Commissioners appoints! in
J the afl before-mentioned, for the purposes ihere
in fejiprefied. hereby give notice agreeably there
to, that books are provided, as the law direifls,
and that we will proceed to receive fubferiptions
for the Company Stock, on the 9th day of A
pril next, at the City Hall, in the city of Phi
ladelphia. The fubferiptions will be received
from ten o'clock in themorniog of the fa>d day,
till two o'clock, P. M. and the books will con
— tinue open during those hmurs of succeeding
days, it the fame place, until,on: hundred per
sons, or more, (V all have fubferibed five thousand
(hares in the (aid stock, as in atid by the said aft
it direfted and required.
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEROT,
GOD FRY HAG A,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SUEAFF.
Philadelphia, it)th March, 1798. jawtf
Piifon Manufa&ory.
FOR SALE,
pes At the P,»ifon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, fronl to icdy
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakets and Sadlers Thread
Alfo —Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, dabs, facia, window fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at fcid Prison >1
a model ate price.
Orders from a diAance, direfted to Daniel Th
omas, agant for 'he psjfon, -will be »ttemd«d to.
December 26. mthim
[W)£.t/ai£ Xllj£
iQQprrig upffgrj? u<itirrw, sijivmnj) KJ, i*
Walih's Antipertuffis,
"S a f*fe aid certain cure for that H&hi&ltt iif
. ofdcr tfce Horrping CcbjH. Tie celetwiff
•hicb this U-is acquired in Eug-and,«em-
T'Jjh? pu&lk.. >*»; iof c*fe« of ran sinlffcccEirjr
lw<— but w ■''* Awtipertnflis hat bee* but r< -
:ntty introduced into thft e6ljrft-y, it fray not l-tf
liifs to publish tht following cafa: , felelSed from
much greater number, asproofcot i»s efficacy.*
" itmrnmer-HilX StJiwbridge, Nov. !(&, '9l.
" Sir,
" Plcafe to feed by the coach, a large boltb of
our Antipertuffis. 1 have given it to the poor of I
lit neighborhood, by whkhtnany hart been cur
-1 of that dreadful di/order the ChirtcoWgti, lit]
so inflancc has it failed, in giving immediate rt
" I am, Sit - , your very obedient Servant,
GEORGE BkISCOE."
" Bath, Jtot 2, 179;,
" «;r, ' ,
" The cause of my troubHrgjyou with this t»,
lat I thought it a duty which I owed to voorfelf
\J t*> society, tjiif I ftouli mention the iuiutary
fc£s's that your excellent medicine, eiiled Aiui
:rtuflls, «Jil Afcg ; wh-> wai, aboiit
»oni»ntliiJe»< •W'Aed Yvf-ini; Cough,
1 a moil d*«tful degree. M/l child
1 by some of the rr.oft eisiincifof the faculty here,
Ko, Iter three days, thutfgfet hini dying ; and wta
Ivcn ovet. At this tifcie a friend of mine flrien
onedthe wonderful ewrcs that had been tffetfled
y your nitdicine ; «rd though we had noe*pec
ition tlut my child. could poflibly recover, yet I
rfolvrd to try it. 1 did ; and at this time, I have
be h»ppin<f« to lay, that he is quite Well, not the
Laitiyaip obi of Mseomplaint remaining.
" Yout's,&c. ,
• JOMAH EI.J4S TOMKIN9."
(London, to wit )
James f ardiey, of No. 4, Poland-[lreet, in the
,»!■tfh of St. | ami's, Came before me this dity, and
voluntarily maketh osth, and faith , that ti» child,
1 boy about two years old, was efifiluaUy cured
)f the Hooping Cough (which he was afflicted
with in a moss violent degree for fou»e months,
tud lor which he could get no relief) by Mr.
SValfti's Antipertuffis.' And this deponent further
'aith, that at the time the child firll took this nic
licine, it was net expeiled he could live ; and that
:he firft dose, alrafcft immediately, removed some
if the mod violent symptoms ( his appetite,
[lrcngth, and spirits mended every day ; and this
deponent further faith, that three or four bottles
made a perfeil cure ; and that the child is bow ia
is good a ft ate of health as it was before.
JAMES EARDLEY.
Sworn before me, this lift day of March, 1795.
Thomas Skinner, Mayor.
j£s* It is Sold, by appointmentsof Mr. Vv/. lsh,
by SHAW & Co. No. 129, Chefnut street, Phi
ladelphia. in bottles at Ig dollars each—Wherecn/ji
may be had IValJt'i Lozenge 1 of Coltsfoot, forrecert
coughs— tVbiUbcadt EJfence 0/ MuJltrJ, forrheuma
tifms, gout, lumbago, palsy, numbness, sprains,
and bruises, in boxes and bottles at I dollar each—
Sovereign Ointment, an infallible cure for the Jttb at
once using—Dr. Smith's celebrated Specific for th«
Vtneretl Dip aft, at T and 2 dollars the bottle—
airo, his Refloritive for debilitated constitutions at 3 1-2
dollars—Acrlii'i Antifcubortic Drops—Balfuni tf Ho
ney, far coughs, colds, &c —Cburcb'e Cough Dr-fs—-
and Gnvluni"3 Lotion, for the face and (kin, &c. &c.
• march 8. ths:t s»t
Ran away from the i'ubferiber,
on the T4thin(l. two indented Irish Servaßt Men :
Thomas M'Gilice, about 25 years of age. and g
feet 8 inches high, rolmft, (lout, and well made,
Ihort black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
his temples ; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, buc of a milder disposition, and more flcn
der make, short brown hair ; thair working appa
relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen Ihirts, gr.y
yam {lockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and rufiett leather flto«s ; they have other cloathing
whuji altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring me», 1 ut have been brought up to the tarn>-
ing buQneft ; no doubt will baveforged passes and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
hive taken the poll road to Philapelphia, 1 pnr
thafed them thelall fall of capt. Rullins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
so' that I get thena, and will pay all reafocable
chatges if brought home, or if fcparated, Thirty
Dallars for Thomas, and Twenty for I ffry.
ARTHUR JRYAN,
Head of Wye, TalbotCbunty—March7.
march 14.
Law iiook Store,
No. 319, High-street-
George Davis,
IMPRESSED v. ith the favors Ihewn him in his
efforts toefiablilh a Store for the sale of Law
Books only, begs leave to inform the Gentleman
of the Bar .generally throughout the Unitecf.States,
that in addition to his colle&ion now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the poffeffi®n of any one perfcm sos file in Ameri
ca, he expt&s daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly irom tha lattei place,
having chiefly confined his importations to thole *di
tians, as being in his opinion equally correft with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
■ ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting hitnfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Boeki, it willappear obvious to profeffional gen
tleijien the great advaatages they havem purchasing
from him, both as to fele&ion and price, of which
the encouragement V.e has received fur several years
past, is the bell teflimony he can offer.
ir arch 10. 3ats3w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. ta, Second street, the corner of Chefnut ftrest.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprefentativesof tbeUnited States, appoint
ed to preppre and report Articles of Impeachment
against V: ILLI A.M BLOUNT, a Senator tf the
United States, impeached of high crimes and «nif.
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Hoiifii of Representatives, authorizing the fait{
Committee to fit during the recefi of Congress, and
inftruaing 01 "to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcover the whole sature and extrnt
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
'■ stands impeachej, and who are the parties and
" artociates therein "
Printed by order of the Htitfc ofßeprefentativa
December 2® j
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
■ mains of the ship India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Bote* of Umbrellas
s 25 Pipes of fined partiiular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 » d2w% 1
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
FRIDAY DECEMBBR 22.
ASSESSED TAXES.
Previous to the house going into a com
mittee,
Sir E. Knatchbull moved, that there be
laid before the house an iccoutit of the num
ber of houses under 81. afleffed taxes and
upwards ; fpecifying the number of each
clafs, from 81. to 501. and so on to 220j.
TK« honfe frt a committee,
Mr. Pitt moved a clause, which was a
dopted, fixing those who kept horfea, car
riages, and male servants, at the higher
rate (as already printed.)
Sjr C. Bunbury moved that taxed carts
be exempted from any additional tax.
Mr. Pitt said, as the law now stood,
there was a great deal of evasion in the pay
ment of this tax ; he could not cohfent to
the insertion of such an exempting clause ;
but the amount of the tax might be a iub
je<ft of future consideration.
Mr. Wilberforce wi(hed to raise the tax
on such as kept men servants, fcc. one rate
higher than was proposed.
Mr. Addington (the speaker) explained,
that no augm«at4U9il &f_a ta* could be pro
posed in £ cfwtnittee, although a reduction
Bn'gitxr
Mr. Pitt brought up a clause to leflen
the proportion of rates upon (hops and lodg
ing-houses.
Upon the clause for imposing a double
rate upon horses used in huftandry, Mr.
Pitt dated, that it was proposed to exempt
those whose farm rents were under 701. per
annum.
Mr. H. Browne proposed, that from "?01.
and under iool. only a single rate (hvuld
be imposed. • I
After some conversation upon this propo
rtion, the committee divided,
For the original clause, 94
For the amendment, 6
Mr. Pitt brought up the clause requiring
the statement of properly to be upon oath ;
he said, that he conceived the oath to be
ncceflary to give complete effeft to the
flatement ; but as many gentlemen had fig
nified their intention of opposing this part,
he begged to submit to the committee whe
ther it would not be better to refetve the
consideration of that paint until the report,
and in the mean time firft to go through
with the schedule of the mode of dating in
come which would have a considerable in
fluence upon the operation of the other
clause, and would narrow it so much as to
require the intervention of an oath but in
few cases. Upon the report they would
have full opportunity of objedling to the •
clause, if they retailed their opinion of the
impropriety ef an oath.
Mr. Pitt brought up another claqfe, that
persons having more than four lawful chil
dren under sixteen years of age (hould be
entitled to abatement—from four to eight,
so per cent abatement—from eight to teVi
15 per cent—above ten, 20 per cent. '
Mr. Wilberforce thought that the abate- '
ment (hould be farther extended, as the ex
pences of children were greater from the
age of sixteen to twenty-one than at any o- '
ther period of their lives.
Mr. Pitt observed, that in all former a&s, 1
■where the diftindion of ages had been in- '
troduced, the age of fixteeu was the usual '
line of demarcation—lt was so in the poll- '
tax. '
After some further consideration, the ,
clause was brought up.
Another elaufe was proposed for exempt- !
ing boarding-schools and public houses, mak- ?
ing them fubjeft to the fame rates of afleff- 1
mentS' as (hops and lodgfhg houses. I
Mr. Baker thought they would be able,
by railing thei'r prices, to throw the bur
then upon those persons who sent their f
scholars ; and, therefore, ought to pay their r
full proportion. n
Mr. Pitt and ferjeant Adair were of a j
contrary opinion j and after some further
conversation, it was agreed to where the 3
boarders were not less than 101.
Mr. Pitt next presented the clause con- 1
taining the schedule, fpecifying the rules. n
It was a fubjeft, he said, which required c
great deliberation. He thought the bed
way would be now to bring it up, have it
printed, and go into the difcuflion upon b .
the report.
Au exsmption was moved in favor of me- "
dical gentlemen, allowing them to keep a
coach and horses in town, and two horses
in the coMntry- This clause produced a
conversation of some length.
Sir E. Knatchbull thought there was no
difference between town and country prac- u]
titioners, and that the exemption ought to
extend to them both. tl
The Attorney General was not favorable so
to the principle of general exemptions, but re
thought that the carriage of the physician T
required indulgence. It was an introduc
tion to praftice : at the fame time, there re
were so few carriages kept by country phy- ro
ficians, that the diminution of the produce
of the tax would be very inconsiderable if fe
the indulgence was extended to all of them, jo
Mr. Pitt thought the abatement of the
duty in town would be very proper, a«,
perhaps, there was no perfon'would fsffer
more by a discovery of income than the can- I pa
didate for medical praftice. But he coil- ha
ceived that a carriage kept in the country ! ex
was a proof of opulence. The fame rea- an
son did not apply, to the profeffion of the ' at
v> for it was of little consequence wheth- or
er the Barrister walked down to Wedmin- th
tter-Hall, or carried bis blue bag in a hack- foi
nty-coach.
The committtee divided on an amend- :
ment proposed by Sir Ed. Knatchbull, for fa'
extending the abatement to all physicians, pr
both in country and was ne- th
gatived by 59 against 42. ,
The committc then divided otl the origtn-
F al claufe—fur it, 59, againd it* 39-
Mr. D. P. Coke proposed 4 clause, to
prohibit any fees from being taken by t e
tellers of tho exchequer on the money rait
ed by-thi» »d. In making this motion,
he declared that he was not aSuated by any
hollile motives againil the two noble per'ons
who held this office; lie was attached to
the preftnt ministry, and the mora io, fce
:om- caufethofe who Hood forward to futeeed
them had declared for a radical reform,
re be which, in his opinion, wa4 other terms tor
mm- ra di ca l ru i n : reform in parliament, he be
and licked, mud be the forerunner of ai'evolu
cach- tion. But at a time when the country
>°} : „ were called upon for such great exertions,
" ' ' and were to contribute so largely, he tho t
" a the uobfe persons who held the office cou.
car " have no objection to fubferfbe their pro.it a ,
Sher he was in hopes that a noble lord, son ot
one of thfcm, who was in hiu place, would
:arts r jf e an( j f CC ond his motion. In the present
emergency, he believed the noble marquis
ood, (Buckingham) would have no obje&ion to
P a T" facrifice that additional income fortbefci
-1 to vice of his country.
jf e ; Mr. Pitt f?id, he did not fujjpofe that the
lub " hon. gentleman could ait hodilely againil
noblemen who had given him no provoca
,ax tion; He gave the hod* gentleman credit
rate for that sentiment, and hoped th t he also
(hould be believed that his opposition to the
claufe was not founded in motives of pri-
P ro " vate partiality. It bfcame the house fe
:hon rioufly to consider wither they would at
„ tack a freehold r*ght vetted in the noblemen,
:^ en and giver, is the reward of services, to
J S" their fathers, and which had descended to
them as absolute ptoperty. And this too
was moved jud after a elaufe empowering
r " any one to fubferibe volu»tarily ; the rea'
mpt fan assigned that the hon. gentleman believ-
P er ed they could have no objeftion, if
had not, surely it would be fully as agreea
ble to them to leave them to exert that in-
H tqntioh of their own free will. He mod
complain also of the manner in which the
'P 0 son of one of the noble lords was called up
on to second the motion. It was dealing
unfairly by him, and placing him in a very
J . unpleasant situation. It was calling him
ta speak for his father without consulting
1 ' him, inducing him either ta oppose the mo
, " tion, or support it for another, without au
l.he thority.
'S* Sir Wm. Pulteney supported the motion;
! rt ' he thought it perfeftly fair, that in times
of such public distress, persons holding such
tne lucrative offices (hould not benefit*by the iri
,rV crtafed burthens laid upon tfie people.
Mr. Pitt replied, that the hon. Baronet
! n " was mistaken in the idea that the tellers of
the Exchecquer would derive any benefit
er from the imposition of this tax. They
•° would not receive any fees in cOnfequenoe
of it ; and, therefore, upon no principle of
, judice could this motion he supported.
The Solicitor General said, the object of
the learned Gentleman's motion was una-
tainable, because it was not pofiible in
■j the issuing of the public money from the
Exchecquer to ascertain whether it was mo-
I ney arising from this tax, or whether it was
; J the other revenue of the country.
Sir William Pulteney said, as this was a
te completely new measure, he saw no reason
why the money raised by this tax (hould not
be paid into the Bank, instead of the Ex
chequer.
Mr. Coke said, he would persist in bring
ing up this claule, and would take the sense
j n ' of the committee upon it. He was convin
jaj ced, that if this bill (hould ever pass the
>ll Legislature, it could not be carried into ex
ecution.
he Mr. Pitt, in reply to what had fallen from
Sir W. Pulteney, said, that if the money
was paid into the Bank, it would set aside
all the checks and guards which the Consti
tution had set over the expenditure of the
public money.
I f Mr. Dundas said, the language which had
ir! a " en from thehon. gentleman who had pro
,;r posed this clause, was highly unparliamenta
■ir ry ' bim t0 explain what he
meant by faying, " the bill could not be
a carried into execution if it was passed by the
er Legislature." Did he mean, that there was '
xe any force from one corner of the kingdom :
to the other that would resist the Legifla
n_ ture ?If he did not mean that, he ought |
s not to use general expressions, which were '
)( j capable of such dangerous conftru&ions.
; ft Mr. Addington spoke against the clause.
Mr. Coke laid, he did not mean that any
in body would resist the law, but he meant
that he believed there were numbers who 1
would not be able to comply with it.
a The committee then divided : '
. s For bringing up the clause, 6.
a Against it, 75
Majority, , 69
o There beingnomore clauses to be brought '
:- up, 0
o Mr. Pitt dated, that it was his intention
that the report (ho«ld be brought up, p ro 1
e forma, to-monow, and to propofethat the '
it report (hould be taken into confederation on (
n Thursday next.
The House was then resumed, and the
•e report was ordered to be received to-mor
r- row. r
■C r The other orders of the day were difpo
if fed of, and at iz o'clock the House ad
1. journea.
c
!• *, LONDON, Jan. 12. ]
r It is reported at Plymouth, that the pre
- ■ parations going on iu the Dock-yard there' ]
- j have for their objett the expediting of the ]
f expedition now the fubjed of conversation, 1
- and which is to be commanded by Sir Hor- ]
e atioNtlfon. From the various rumours afloat ]
ontheoccafion, there is great reason to think I
that the armament is for the deftruaion of I
- Tome one or other of the flotillas of sua- I
, boats &c. colleftimr ; n the French ,
A letter from Gibraltar, dated Nov. ,0 ]
' 7S \'7/ e S P aniftl g"n-boats lately'ap!
, proached so near as to fire several (hots i n f ß v
' WD ' °/f °U Wh,ch struck two Emigrant I v
J Noblemen (father and f. D ) walking arm and 1 e
, arm .opttar ,*« .«f il£
the other ft'erely wom.dec
3 Bnttjh
c quiffes, ten of whom have Me
- J»t dignity durmg the Mu-fcy -
, Pitt. Of ? rtt o office,
r been mad; hnce Mr. f wtu)m
s There are frxteen;«»g f one hun
» hate been made bv Mr. Pit
- dred and twenty Barons sixty
1 , recommendation of Mr. '
, all the Bishops owe their mure* to hi •
r I Morton's new Comedy
- third time, a brilliant bumper f
- evening at Covent-Garden. Ihe »lf
f literally t>*el flovrtd in many ?»ru at an*at£
I 17
1 figure of modern Tonifm eter exhibited. he
; appears " a neat bit o'hlood." 1° ™*™
f Dafhtrs, it may he said „
1 » He, Knight ,'tb'fiin. anJ , cfr'fgt, y«< a"-
t The splendid Drama of the French 1 lua
, tre, " Ba.be Bleue," is to be given at N<-w
---, Drury with decorations molt superb 1 <ic
. powers of the Enchanter Blue Beardare
exemplified by the fineit powers of mecha
. nifm. Mr. Colman fee ins to have taken the
hint from Shakespeare,
" His verfc di:tll'd by nuaic,ili^hts.
" Shall raise such artificial Cprighte."M,*c»tTH.
The Glee Club held their monthly mee
ting on Saturday evening, at the Crown and
Anchor in the ftrand,which wan numeroiilly
attended by Amateur?; as well as Mtihcal
ProfeflorS. After dinner •' Non noils" was
sung by near four fcoie of the belt voices
the capital affords, in a manner which no
1 recital can describe. Afterwards three new
' Glees, by Mr. Cook, Mr. Linley, and Mr.
1 Webb, jun. were performed for the fir ft
time, and received with great applause. Dig
num gave his celebrated naval long of Cam
dertown with rapturous effeft : that was
r- ill /*tl C 1 1-V
fucceede d by various t*iee»
celebrity, &c. In a word, thee ainmenU
of th« day we»t-«ff-ca»i«nnabi
spirit of thiii refpeftable inftitui • > "
thoughout.
" rhc feaft of reason, and the fio of i'
Account cf the quantity of Wine expor: :dj[t otn_
Oporto from the firjl nf January 1797» ,e
the 30th November 1797, and -which was
the whole quantity exported from Oporto
within that year. Pipes.
To Great Britain and Ireland* 19,500
To America, - - 1,800
To Hamburgh, - ■> 337
To various parts of the Baltic, 135
Tu Russia, - - 190
Of the 19,50® pipes sent to Great-Bri
tain and Ireland, the proportion of pipes
sent to Ireland is about 5000. Perhaps
1000 are sent from Oporto to Cruern/ey and
Jersey. At any rate the largest quantity
exported from Oporto and imported into
Great-Britain, docs riot exceed 14,000 pipes
during the year 1797- —In the years 1794
and 1795, that is, before Mr. Pitt had laid
on his enormous and intolerable duties, there
were imported into Great-Britain 45,000
pipes each year ! _ [ Jacobin Print.2
PRESENT EFFECTIVE FORCE
IN GIIEAT-BRrTAIN.
- 8 troops
2 regts. of lifeguards, esch,ofßo
1 ditto horse guards, P" v & 3*
j. 1 6 . s officers & J. 16,164
3 ditto dragoon ditto oon com _ f 4
15 ditto light dragoon m ffioned
officers. J
26 regimentsfenciblecavalry, each"
comprising 8 troops of 18 offi
cers and 45 privates and non- ' 1 3>
commissioned officers.
32 regiments infantry (regulars);"
of these many are skeletons, but
including the miliary depot at
Chatham, may be estimated at }> 13,540
20 effeftive regiments of 600 I
rank and file, and 77 officers &
non-commissioned officers.
12 Skeleton regiments, including! ' £W'
officers, °|^.l24
18 regiments of fencible infantry"}
each 600 rank and file, and 69 /
officers aitd non-commifliotied J 11 >°4 2
officers, J
69 regiments of militia 45,000
252 troops of gentlemen and yeo-1
manry cavalry, f 'J' l2O
; 856 companies volunteers, •, »« 51,360-
Supplementary millitia, 60,000
Making in the whole!
Effective men, J 22 7>45°
To this force are to be added, 117 com
panies of artillery, 10 ditto of invalids dit
to, and 59 independent companies of inva
lids.
IN IRELAND.
Exclulive of its own militia and yeoman
ry, which compr.fe upwards of 90,000 men
Ireland has received from Britain the
4th, sth, 6th and 7th regiments of dra
goon guards.
sth, 9th, 22d, 23d and 24th regiments ef
light dragoons.
6th, 13th, 30th, 41ft, 54th, 64th, 68th
and 89th regiments of foet.
fencible cavalry.
The Ancient Briti(h,_ Caiabridgelhire—
New Romney.
FENCIBLE INFANTRY.
Aberdeen Argylefhire 2 bat.
Breadalbane, Ift and Caithness Legion '
2nd battalions Dunbartonshire
Devon & Cornwall Lord Elgin's
Durham Fifefhire '
Frazel'f' InTcrnefs Higliland-
Leicester North Lowlaß(i
i laux, 2d battalion Northhampton
Northumberland Perthftire
o r „. Rofhfay & Caithness
Somersetshire Suffolk [2d bat.
L*ya) Tay Yo?k
With five independent companies of in
valids—makmg in the whole a force of up
wards of one hundred and twenty thousand
enectivc irrcn,
L AWS oVTHEUSU ED STATES-
yytlUftGlity
fifth ConfTffr of t!\e United States :
AT SECOND SKSMOU,
Be-'in and hett at the City of PTiifadelp.ua,
! the' State of Pennfylvnnia, oil Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
For the relic} of Sylvanus Crowd!.
BE it encßed by the Senate and House of
Reprrfentatives of the Uriitcd States oj
, jtrnerica, in Qangrefs assembled, I hat if it
fliall be proved to the fatisfa&ion of the col
lector of the port of Barnftable, in the
state of Massachusetts, that agreements
were made according to the direction of the
| aft, intituled " An aft concerning certain
! fiftieries ©f the United States ; and for the
' regu'atroti and government of the lifhermen
! employed therein," bttween the masters
: and fiflicrmen employedonboard, the schoon
ers Jeruflia, Phoebe and Ruth, belonging
to Yarmouth, in the ft:3te aforefaid, cotin
terfigned by the owners, or their agent, for
a fifhing voyage, iri the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-fix ; and that the
said agreements cafually destroyed by
! fiw »K«n -nd in such cafe, the said collec
■d and diredled to make and
j.ay i ii4-&ylTOTHis CroweH, or Oilier
,f 1. .. owners of tlie said fctiooticTs,
f such j'iev- ice as they been en
' titled f mder the aft aforefaid, provided
j the reements had been produced to
f. d • . n
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Stealer of the House of Representatives
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prcfident of the United States
and President of the Senate.
United States,
Approved, March 19, 1798. j
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States <
AN ACT
To amend the Ai7, intituled "An afi laying
duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchrr.ent and
Paper."
n Tn> E it enaEted by the Senate and
ec. 1. House of Repi efentatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfem
bled, That whenever any person, other than
officers t napleyed in colledting the revenue
of the United States, ihall apply to any fu
pervifwr or infpeftor of the said revenue, at
the omee of such supervisor or infpeftor, for
the purchafir, at one time, of any quantity
of vellum, parchment, or paper, stamped
and marked in the manner directed by the
aft, intituled "An aft laying duties
on stamped vellum, parchment and paper,"
the whole amount of the duties on
which quantity (hall be ten dollars,
or upwards, such supervisor or infpeftor (hall
be, and hereby is authorized and required
to deliver to such person, such quantity of
vellum, parehment or paper, stamped, as
aforefaid ; the said person paying down the
amount of the said duties, after dedufting
therefrom, seven and one IrJfper ceritum on
fueh amount ; which deduftion the said su
pervisor or infpeftorishereby authorized and
required to allow.
Sec: 2- j4aJic U Jnrther enacJed, That
■ vjlier.ever any stamped vellum, or parchment
(hall be applied for, and delivered, in the
manner aforefaid, the said purchaser, in or
der to become entitled to the aforefaid de
duftion. (hall pay to the said supervisor, or
infpeftor, in addition to the amount of the
laid duties, a reasonable rate for and on ac
count of the price of the said vellum, or
parchment, which rate, the Secretary of the
Treasury is hereby authorized and required
to fix, as nearly as jnay be, according to the
aftual cdft of those articles.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaßed, That
whenever any person, other than officers em
ployed in the colltftion of the
the United States, (hall bring any vellum,
parchment or paper, to be stamped, in the
manner direfted by the aforefaid aft, in any
quantity, at one time, the whole
amount of the duties for (lamping which,
fliall be ten dollars, or upwards, the officer
(lamping such vellum, parchment or paper,
pursuant to the direftions of the said aft,
(hall be, & hereby is authorized & requir
ed to make to such person, the fame allow
ance and deduftion on theamount of the said
duties, as is direfteti by the firft feftion of
this aft, to be made in the cafe 3 therein
mentioned.
Sec. 4. And bfi it further enacted, That
the stamped paper, required by the afore
faid aft to be furnirtied to the citizens of the
United States, by the Treasury Depart
ment, (hall be furni(hed at the rate ef duty
provided by that aft, without any addition
al charge on account of the price of papery
or any other expence, any thing, in the said
_uct the contrary, notwithstanding, and
that all paper, for the purposes aforefaid,
finallbe furnifhed at the expence of the Uni
ted States, by th« Secretaryiof the Treasury
Department, who is hereby authorized to
employ annually, a Aifficient sum for that
purpoie, and for the necessary purchase of
vellum and parchment, out of any monies
in the Treasury of the United States, not
otherwise appropriated : Provided always,
That nothing herein contained, (hall be so
construed, as to require the treafary depart
ment to furnifh any stamped vellum, or
parchment without an additional charge for
"the price of thsfe materials,ever& above the
dUty*lWbe ftan>p , HuK , % all f
where ftamptd vellum, m pi, , ~t (}, if
be furnifhed, the Secretary of t;- jy
i ment is hereby authorized and required?"
fix, as nearly as may be, according to th!
aftual coftof those articles, tffp.ct velv
See. 5. And be U further enaßed, That fa
much of the aforcfuid aft, as relates to ft a
duties on " any certificate or debenture
drawbacks of customs or duties," fha!] h
and the fa ma is hereby repealed ■ and th C
in lieu of the said stamp duties, one fourth
per cent, on the amount of all drawbacks
allowed by law, on the expo-.tation of £ood ,'
wares, and merchandize imported, fl-,all h *
retained for the use of the United Stat™'
by the paying such drawbacks'
and in addition to the sum ef one percent'
direfted to be so retained by the adt, intitii*
led " An aft to provide more effectually far
the Collection of the duties impofad by law
00 goods, wares, and merchandizes imported
into the United States, and on the tonnage
of fliips or vessels."
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Rebrefentatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
United States, I
Approved, March 19, 1798. I
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of Stole.
congress.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
- * »
FRIDAY MARCH 23.
1 he bill making an appropriation far the
bsknce found.ilUUS-lhg IsdUaaSknu
tives <.f \Villiofn Carmlchae! deceased, was
lead a third time and passed.'
Mr. Otis presented the petition of the
widow of Jofiah Flagg, a colonel in the
State troops of Rhode Island, pr ying f or
compensation, for the services of her late
husband, which being read, he mov»d to
have committed to the committee of claims.
This reference was opposed by the chair
man of the committee of claims (Mr. D
Foster.) He ftatrd, that colonel Raw
ought to have been, if he was not paid bv
the state of Rhode Island ; that a number
of applications of this kind had been made
to Cosgrefs, and uniformly rejefited; the
amount of these claims, he believed, would
not be less than several thousand dollars;
and the accounts of the several states
j who employed these troops had already been
, adjusted between the general government
, and the state governments—Ordered to lie
1 on the table.
Mr. Otis from the committee ta whom
was referred so much of the President's
fpcech as related to consuls, reported a bill,
which was read and committed for
Mr. D. Foster proposed the fallowing
resolution for the adoption of the house,
which was agreed to :
' 1 Refined, That the committee of claims
be injlru&ed to enquire -whether any, and -what
further provision ought to be mdde relative to the
payment or reimbursement if the unfunded or
regijlered-debt, now credited in the books of the
treasury, and relative to loan office and final Jet
tlement certificates ;. and that the said committee
be empowered to report by bill or other wife."
Mr. Sewall, from the committee for the
protection of commerce, and the defence of
the country, reported the bill from the Se
nate authorizing the President to purchafa
one or more foundries, with an opinion that
it ought to be adopted without amendir—'•
The bill was comr-'^*-- 5 ™ Mwiioay.
me amendment of the Senate to the bill
for declaring the assent of Congress to an
aft of the state of Maryland for the appoint
ment of a health-officer, was concurred in.
Mr. Pinckney moved that the petition of
Stephen Drayton, prefaced in June lift,
and upon-which no reference was made, be
referred to the committee of elaims.—
Agreed.
A message was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, informing the
house that he hafl approved and figneJ the
aft'for relief of Sylvanus Crowell, and the
aft for amending the aft for laying a duty
on stamped vellum, parchment and paper.
Mr. J. Williams called for the order of
the day on the bill for organizing and.disci
plining the militia of the United States.
Mr. Gallatin thought it better that the
house should again go into a committee o.
the whole on the bill for an amicable lettle
uient of limits with Georgia, and for the e
reftion of a government in the Mifiiuippt
Territory, as that fubjeft had already un
dergone some discussion and tlie bill had
been reported with the information to obtain
which it had been committed.
The letter business was preferred, arid the
house accordingly went into a committee of
the whole on the fubjeft ; when Mr, Mil
ledge's amendment beihg under confederati
on, for adding to the faction far appointing
a provisional government in the Natchez
country, " after the confeni of the legiflatureof
Georgia Jhall have been obtained, a con 1 e
rable discussion took place. The amea
ment was at length negatived 46 to 34.
Mr. Thatcher then moved to ftnke out
the following words in the 3d feftion, ex
cepting and excluding the lad article o t e
ordinance." [This last article prohibited
slavery in the north-weltein territory ; w 14
by this bill is n»t intended to he pro 1 ' te
in the Mississippi territory. The oje °
the amendment was to make the farce P™' 1
bition with refpeftto slavery in 1 ' s tc^ rl °
ry that was made in the northwe era err.
tory.] The motion was fupp»rted by
Messrs. Thatcher, Varnutn and Gallatin,
and opposed by Messrs. Rutledge, ' >
Giles, Nicholas and Gordon. It was 1
gatived, there being only twelve mem e
in favor of it.-A sketch of this de
bate will be given.Mr. Clopton, from the committee of en
rolment, reported the bill for declaring tha
aflent of Coagrefs to an aft of the Hate of
Maflachufetts, and the bill appropriating a
sum of money for providing and supporting
a naval armament.
Adjourned rill Monday.
a»nw» in hi. i nin ii n !■■■—
Xfje
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURBAY EVENING, March 24.
A letter received by yefterdayi mail fays,
The captain of the veflel arrived at Gloucc
fter from Uochelle informs, that it was re
ported at Rochelle, that the Direftory had
prppofed to the Council of Five Hundred,
that as John Adams was in the pay of Eng
land, all veflels having his name on their
papers should be condemed as good prize,
and that the captain's merchant told him
the taxes there were so enormous that he had
paid for the last year more than he had for
35 years before.
Flagiliora Facinora.
The Chief Magi(lrate of a free, sove
reign and independent nation calumniated
with impunity, by an alien, who narrowly
escaped the gallows in his own country for
crimes which mftlt death in every civilized
community.
The people of those parts of the United
States who made the grerteft exertions in
refilling attempts upon their freedom, tra
duced by the fame culprit as the friends of
arbitrary power.
The friends of Independence, those who
rifl<ed their all in the revolutionary war, dig*
matized in the Aurora with the epithet moil
justly applied feme twenty years ago to the
prefect rcvjlers in that paper ef the govern
ment of this country. •
Piracy and murder juftified and applauded
by a wretch whose gullet had a narrow
squeak for a traiterous and murderous con
spiracy in Scotland.
A wretch whipped out of one city for
lies, slander and abuse, recommencing the
fame employment in another, adding slander
to slander, and falfehood to falfehood in the
face of the rudest and mod palpable confu
tation.^—See the late attack on a member
of the House of Representatives.
MR. FENNO,
I am' sorry to hear that the Germantown
Turnpike bill has polled a second reading in
thefenate of this state without a single a
mendment ; if this is the cafe and the bill
should in its present shape become a law, it
will never be carried intoeffeft, for its pro
visions are such that no m3n in his senses,
will become a übferiber—The road is to be
extended to Reading, and if not compleat
ed in ten years is to revert to the state and
consequently all that ftiall have been expen
ded will be forfeited—True it is, that gales
may be put up when the road is compleat
cd ten milet, .and if the. company caH be
reimbursed within that time, the money ex
pended thereon, there will he no lnft ; but
can it be supposed that the toll will be fuf
ficient for that purpose ?—The people of
Montgomery county and others travelling
that road can avoid it by going one mile
round : and as new roads may be laid out
through that county so as to make that dis
tance much less, there can be 110 doubt but
measures will be taken by those who are op
posed to the Turnpike road to lead people
another direction, and thereby render this
artificial road almost entirely unproductive—
The company are fubjeci to so many reftric
liable to such numerous prosecu
tions, that nothing i:hl }• v 1 i * l - ni "fix
ation can attend them. And as those who
it might beexpefted would be the principal
fubferibers will be fubje<?t to an enormous
toll, whilst others who will fubferibe b«t lit
tle will be almost exempt, it cannot be pofii
ble that the fubfeription will 511. If thib
bill is compared with the Lancaster Turn
pike aft, it will be found that the toll on
pleafura'ole carriages will be 50 per cent
higher, and the toll upon carriages of bur
then, 30 per cent lower on the German
town than on the Lancaster road. Is this
reasonable ? Is it just ? Is is probable that
'the owners of pleafarable carriages will do
any thing to an aft so unjust in princi
ple into efFeft ?
I do not mean to censure the member of
the house of reprefentatives-who was the
warmed oppoferof this bill, for the amend
ments which he offered and which in faft
will entirely prevent it frcm being carried
into effeft. lam disposed to think that he
thought them right ; but I am sorry he
was so much mistaken ; for had he thought
as correftly upon this fubjeft as he does up
on mod others which come before the legis
lature, he might have rendered his country
an effehtial fei^ice.
It is to be hoped that the senate will a
mend the exceptionable parts of this bill
when it is read the third time ; and if that
should not be done, there can be no doubt
but it ought to receive the governor's nega
tive ; for then we might stand a goodchance
of obtaining a bttter law at the next ftf
fion of the assembly ; but if it should pass
into a law it is very doubtful whether the
legislature would make any alterations in it
in less than two years even if there was not
a single fubferiber. A CITIZEN.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
THE refslutions moved by Mr. Maday, in
the Legislature of Pcnrfylvania, contain a deeiar
ation that " the diftrelTes of the citizens engaged
*1 commerce are lamented by the heufe.
Ihe President's mefTag'e to congress, on which
this proceeding was evidently founded, acquaints
ms, that •' secondary interefls" and " reasonable
coijceflions" were powers veiled in the envoys to
offer, but that a liberal and pacific policy was treat
ed hj ouf faitblef Ma so as to leave nothing fur
ther to be attempted, and recommends such mca
iures as wifiom, reflection and fuggeft ;
Nat as the resolution-making member would have
'tcon/tru d, " engaging in lioilility with any of
'he 1 uropenn pows-s," bull, deferd ,«rfelvn. |f
the member thiiks the pa ft is without retiedy, and
t French juf.icc wi:l not reiref. the wrongs so
■wantonly a- d wicisdl/ exercised ver oar commerce
—if he TtouU hjve our merchants idle, and by that mra
t. e numerous class ef mechanics wb» earn tbeir bread by
tie employment of flipping, let him ftiggel a provi
nori for the payment of our plan fereprspetty,
f" that the state at. Urge, participating i the h»a
v» ev 1, can afc.rtam itsinterelHn what the gcnfle
m n from the country seem, or affeil to think,
they hav? none. Lamentation will then eemfe and
the merchant and mechanic abandon tie city, and
plow the foil, till the o'lve-braticb of peace again fi.itl
flou -jb on the tree of I berty.
If it is dangerous to place moie ex'enfive and
difcreuonary power in the han '« of in :ividu-U,
"i } n Pf Ke ' '"diff rest, may command a iprs
chant s ship, a "d if to prevent the ahufe W ic, a
reftri. ,ive law be necessary, it is with aorigref. %n
conridrr and en d t. From the " wisdom, zeal
vigor and concert" of our federal representatives,
everything thatenn be done, istoUe expeded, to
avoid * a .'late of wariare, that word of all human
calamities-"
for instance, that none but natural born citizens,
or those adop ed before Sept»mb r 179 (hould
co nmand, or id as ma A tr or chief mate, or li. u
tC M nt f •'"J armel vcjfcl; lnd that good and rtpu
a >!? cuizrrs fh.-utd »ou h for their conduct as or- '
' c y -m f rap riw! of time past.
That hey fhrul! receive inllrud'i ns from tbeir
oiy (to be uniform an J printed) who should de
liver them in preface of the colle&or, not to chace,
fi-e upon or attack any veKel whatever, and that
it Ut upon or broughr to in the prosecution of
•he voyage, by any vefTel farrying the colours of
anv . U r power, not having a gredter num
ber of guns, they v ould »oi» hoist out their boat or
go aboaid. but declare theirreadinefj to per-;it
th; beat of the cruizer to come along fide, and not
mere than three persons at 6ne time to board her
to examine the (hip's paneri, &c. which being
'hewn, the said persons Ihou'd peaceably retire
?nd return to their own v<lTel ; if, however, they
mould refnfe h 'o d», and persist to continue on
brard for the fpac- ot fix hourt, then he jhould be 1
at liberty to maUe fail and renew his course, and
carry cflf the f/id persons so on board ; and if fired
upon or prevented, or logger a tempted to be pre
.vented from failing and continuing her voya<-e,
to repel force ivith force, andJirt upon the aggreflorj f»
long as it may be needfary for the fafety at.c liber-
his vtfiTel. and
As conimiffiens ire not eves
be granted t» ci|ry,ffels. they will c >•- ~e to |
fail under great difidvantagts —they at e ill lia
ble to be made prize of, without the bent fit of
mjkin ca turcs.
When the commerce »f Great-Britain w<s gres .
ly t mbarraffe 1 1 y the pirates of B,irbary, it became
necrfTary t enco rage reffels f force i\ themeditei/a
nean trade, — th- y failed under particular regula
tions and reflr (ftinn, ; if they struck, and b.camt
priz? ti any vessel, ./ If, thai Jmtk tbeir
free, th- men were not en tied t be ransom
ed ; a bounty was given to th fe of certain ton
rage and force, and rx.mpti n from light money,
&c Similar regulations fem on this melancholy
occasion necefTary Tbc condua of the French, whil<
it has mode liberty f ink, ftiould teach us to defend
our own pure and iincorrupted, free Irom the
smell of their nefariqps proceedings, and " while
any door to reconcihatian remains open," every
merchant Jbip may negotiate for her onm rights, by tau
tioufly avoiding to invade those of others
A FRIEND TO LAWJ AND FKEEBOM.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
A writer in your paper of the 10th in#, after
making a Ibort quota ion from Da'jyniple, con
certiing the hiltory of England, • which aflrrts that
itshiflory is that of liberty, and of its fpirirupon
the conflitution, Religion; wealth, powor, and a
bove all, upon the dignity of the national character "
As the man faid'-of Ht-rcnles; " Wbo impeached
Hercul.s ?" \\ ho impeached the Epg'ilh nation
al charader ?
The- writer appears, however, to be a very
young; nian, at .raft in historical knowledge, if
>» hat he has published may be aken as the result
of his Oudies. 1 here are many particulars in
which we cannot place tha most Oeady credit in tif
toriai«s ; and we know that this mod impartial Wif
tory oJ England, and the bell, that has ever been
published as far as it was perfciled, was written by
- J re <h nan, who was himfelf an adorin some of
the important tranfadions upon which he has
written; [mean Raptn de Ihoyras, Neverthe
i»fs, excellent as that history is, there are particu
lars initwhichhave not received the uniform assent
of well informed msn.
But is it really true what Dalrymple dates ? I
admire as much as any man the great charaders
wl ich England has produced ; 1 admire the trial
y J u ';» - 1 -->»*-'-eas corpus ad, and general Inirir
ot liberty whichTfas DcL in that nadon
Yet, permit me to diflfent frrtm DalryiupU,
from writer who has adopted his fVntimenti.
To difput« upon the principles of liberty at this
time of day would indeed be a work of supereroga
tion, as it would he the extreme of absurdity to fay
the history of England is that of liberty ; it would
hr* at heA tut a comparative history, and we should
exc.ude all antiquity, as well as the eighty years
war of the Dutch, and the noble struggle of the
Swif-, in order to pay a compliment that is not
warrantad even in itfelf.
It would be in like manner as ah(W<i to talk of
of the English constitution. Th at baft been very
tSo r oughly invefttgar«d ; and would not now af
ford any very irit}ru»fUve information in addition
to what is known. As to its influence upon relig
ion, I fear the history of Engl nd' is not very in
ftru&ive whether it is confiJcrfid under Henry
VIII. or Mary, James I. or George II with great
delerctice I urge it, the history is far from delight
ing to any mind of sensibility or liberality. If
wealth and power arc in therr.felves, independent
of the means by which they are acquired and (he
ends to which they are applfed, the proper and juil
objects of admiration; there I will acknowledge
t"at. I know of no nation which def rves the attcn
tion of mankind, thtre is none that merits the most
ftr <sl and minure curiosity more than England. 1
do not fay how that riches and that power have
be- n produced and employed, pcrh ps it is therein
the " dignity #f the national charader" is to be
best difccrned. If your Qprrefpor.dent would o
blige with his ideas on this further in illuf
tratiori, perhaps 1 may be mistaken as t>> his know
ledge of thefubjeA; as to the reft his observa
tions it is impoftible for us to make things bttter
in France, theyfeem blindly regardlef* of all the
wilt'em which we can them ; so let them
proceed they like, so they do not meddie witli
ouraff'irs I hope they may continue to "con
quer their own felicity," as your eorrefpondent
fays, and let us alone. I hope when your corref
pondent has paid a little regard to the history he
has written about, he will let us hear from him
fomefa»sU, as they are much bnter than any Yague
assertion bf any Writer whatfoevier.
UMBO.
P. S. If your correspondent is desirous of it, I
will offer a tew reafonswhy I utterly dideht from
Dalrymple in the most particular points.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, March 23.
Six Fer Cent. 16/4 ta 16ff>
Three per C«nt. I of
Deferred 6 per Cent. I >/7 13/8
BANK United States, 10 to li per cent.
—Pennfylvatiia, »3 per cent.
■ North America, 50 per cent.
InfuranceCo. Pennsylvania, 10
N. A. share* J j per cent.
A NUISANCE!
T he Commissioners forfupei intending the
cleansing and paving nf the ftrcets in this
city, are carneftly requeued, by several of
the inhabitants in the vicinity of Dock-street
to visit that part, between the Hurfe Mar
ket and Third-street, where they will find
a very great nuisance facing the house where
boufehold goods are exposed to sale. The
pavement is entirely bri.ke up ?nd impassa
ble, in wet weather tQ the great annoyance
of those whose biifir.nefs brings them that
wa y- A CITIZEN.
Died, this msrning, Mrs. Frances Bud
den, reliA of the late Mr. James Bndden,
of this city.
Died at Beverly, Mr. Jduth Batchtldfr,
aged 88.
EXTRACT.
" It is astonishing that even the mole Ja
cobin cannot discern the unclouded meaning
of French magnanimity and repnblicanifm,
in the division of the Venetian territories,
and of French fraternization, in their con
duft towards the miserable Dutch. Indeed
those creatures of French fehemes, the Cis
and Transalpine republics in their letters to
the Direftorv will soon adopt the language
of Priam to Paris, in Shakespeare's Troilus
and Creflida.
Paris, you fjieak
I.ike one besotted on your ftveet delights ;
"V ou have the honey still, and we the gall ;
So to he valiant is ne praifc at alt.
Citizen Defaudryat a fitting of the Ly
ceum of arts at Paris has lately introduced
a new method of/launching blood. It would
have been fortunate for France ifthis humane
discovery had been made some years foouer.
Bitaube, a celebrated French poet, has late
ly published an Imitation of the fixrh Sa
tire of the second book of Hprace, wherein
he has happily clothed the Roman poet in
the Gallic costume, fkilfully adapting his i
deas to modern manners and circunillauces
this day's Mail.
BOSTON, March 17.
AUTHENTIC.
Frbm Gloucester, March 15.
Capt. Hays has arrived here this day
from Rochelle. He confirms former ac
counts of French politics being much op
posed to the American government ; or ra
ther that they were carrying their system of
depredation to the summit. He gives a re
pert that was current in France when he fail
ed, that the executive direftory had propos
ed to the council of Five Hundred to pass a
law making all American vessels good prize
which should have on board papers signed
by John Adams ! ! as they view him an
emissary from Pitt. He adds, that it was
the general opinion at Rochelle, that the
requeft.pf the direftory would not be refuf
ed. .
ffj" It would require the patience of Job
to refute the many falfhoods which contin
ually ifTue from the jacobin prefTes in the
United States :—But we cannot forbear to
remind the people, the -Aurora, and fts co
pyists, have affirmed and le-affirmed, that
our Executive has for months past received
letters from our commissioners in France, and
that it had concealed them. Proofs of the
falfhood are now before the public. Were
they worthy notice, it would be as easy to
demonstrate the absurdity and turpitude of
nine tenths of the jacobiu assertions, as it is
this.
From Malaga.
Capt. Henry Atkins arrived last evening
from Malaga, which place he left the 4th of
Feb. informs, that just before he failed, it
was reported and believed, that the French
had renewed hojlilities againjl Portugal, and
had marched an army of 50,000 men towards
Lisbon. The French capture all neutrals,
W..,nd to any ports in the Mediterranean,
and carry them in for adjudication.
Capt. Atkins, in long. i2,lat. 35, spoke
and was boarded by the Crescent Frigate,
Capt. Newman, from Portsmouth, for Al
giers, out 20 days, all well.
From Gibraltar, February 2, we learn,
that the Biitifh still continue to block the
Spanifli armada in Cadiz harbour.
We have accounts from Bourdeaux, of
the condemnation there of Forty fix Amer
ican vefTels.
The United States, at this moment ex
perience all the evils of war, without any
of its benefits. Instead of war's costing
money, if it were declared at this moment,
it woul.l be putting money into thepockets
of our citizens, and giving life and a&ivity
to business of every kind.
ARM ! or STARVE !
The Jacobins to a man are opposed to
arming our vessels, or fitting out a finale
ship of war. They well know, that ow
ing to French gun-boat piracies, our mecha
nics and artificers are almost starving ; and
that the moment Congress gives leave to
our merchants to arm, and orders naval
yards to commence building new ships, that
they will, find full employment.—THlS IS
FACT ! The moment the newt arrives that
the merchants shall have liberty to arm their
vessels, not an ax, hammer, or mechanic
implement will be idle. Business will afTume
its adivity ; and the rnufic of the cunning
workman will be heard on all our wharves.
The French have broken down every barri
er of the treaties mado" in the name of the
most holy and undivided Trinity They
have declared, in the teeth of those treaties
and the law of nations, that the ships of all
countries, kindredand climes shall be a good
prize to them, if they have a bale of Eng.
lifh goods on board, and bound from or to
any port.—Those treaties and the laws or
tiaiior.s, give belligerent powers the right
to search neutral vessels—But as the French
have declared by their late decree, that they
were null and void, we have ne right to be
governed by tlicm, as they refpeft France ,
hut to treat their ciuizers as wc would pi
rates.
GEORGIA LANDS.
IMPORTANT DECISION.
MefTrs. William Paine, Nathaniel Prime,
Comfort Sands, and others gave to MefTrs.
Samuel St wall, Samuel Dexter, and George
Lane, a bond in the penalty of 300,000
dollars, conditioned, within a given time
to procure and deliver to them authentic
documents of title to one million acres of
Georgia lands ; in confidrration of which
MefTrs. Sew ell. Dexter and Lane, and their
affeciates, delivered to them their notes for
220,000 dollars,-payable in instalments.
Anaflion was brought onthebond againfl
Mr. Paine ; and after a full hearing hi chin
cery on the bond, the Supreme Judicial
court on Wednesday gave juegment for the
plaintiffs in the full sum of 220,000 dollars
with the interest on the notes which had
been due. Thus the corfderation of the
notes being Cftablifhed by this decision, it is
presumed an amicable adjustment will take
place by i discharge ofthis judgment by the
notes.
NEW-YORK, March 21.
ExtraS of a letter from Pbilidelphia, dated
ycjicrday.
• x 1 hings appear to be verging to a cri
sis It is expefted the President's message
will be taken up to day in the Houfe—lt
was referred to a committee of the Senate
yesterday.
" It is expefted by many that the anti's
will cavil about the papers—They may, but
the business is too solemn to trifle with. The
PreCdent has placed the refpoiifibility where
the const itution faysit ftiallbe •If ourcoun
try is to be facrificed, Mr. Adams is not the
man to do the jobb"!
HARRISBURGH, March 14.
COMMUNICATION.
Whatever delusions, the iuftpufiog afpe<S
of the French revolution, in its early.fta
gei, may have produced, the condudl of
the dire&ory will now admit of but «ne in
terpretation ; .and all the fine spun, flatter
ing theories of liberty, equality and the
rights, of man, have terminated in one of
the most flagitious, lawltfi dominations,
that ever the human race was doomed to
groan under. But the usurpers are Readily
advancing to their ruin, in the fame steps
of all their predecefTors in violence and out
rage. Peace, which is ever the bane of ty
rants, they'dread of all things, and there
fore war must be carried on, 3s long as any
pretext can be found for its continuance, or
any plunder remains to feed the rapacious
appetites of the soldiery.
Their objeft now, it seems, is to carry
the blessings of liberty and equality into
England, in which the tyrants very artful
ly avail themselves of tke national sentiment
of rivalry and hatred Jo that country. A
sentiment, so ardently glowing in the hearts
of Frenchmen, that not even the horrors
of - the revolution have been able to extin
guish it 5 and which the aristocrat, who
flies from the guillotine, teelg in common
with the jacobin, wfco diretts ft» operations.
This is probably the best scheme "they could
have fallen upon, to blind the people to their
outrages, and to gild the nefarious measures
of their government. Their armies too,
must be employed at all events, as lcifure
might be dangerous, and fugged to them
the sacrilegious idea of turning their aftns
opon their amiable matters.
Audendo magnus tegitur Timor.
Campnm miles defcendat in cequum
Dum meus eft : variam semper dant otia
mentem.
Whether they are serious in their projec
ted invasion of England, or whetker it is
metely a gafeonade, a short time must now
discover. One thing, however, we may be
fureof, and that is, that we Anglo- Ameri
cans, are no less honored with their hatred
than the English themselves, and that if
their abilities are but equal to their inclina
tions, we shall have the fatisfadion of being
last devoured. We are told, however, that
we dirferve it, and peihaps we do ? for we
havejeertainly been rebellions enough Jo pur
fueourownintereft without consulting them,
contumacioufly dared to form a
commercial treaty with a power, which it
is their sovereign pleasure to deflroy, and
upon whom, they have already pronounced
the dreadful sentence t>f " Deknda eft Car
thago !" Whether the poor devoted Car
thage will be able to withstand the fury of
the modern Romans must chi-fly depend on
her wooden walls ; and that she may not on
ly refifl, but crush her invaders, will be the
prayer of every American, that has not
been Frenehified out of every perception of
the true intcrefts and happiness of this coun
ty- March 9.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Brig Nancy, Dougherty, Teneriffe
Bride, Quandrill, Charleston
Schr. Maria Matilda, Morse, Havaona
Thomas, Van Duym, Port-au-Prince
Sloop Sally, Potter, Peterfburgh
Dolphin, Denyke, Savannah
Robert, Briggs, do.
Delight, Lord, do,
Concord, C a b*on, New York
A (hip supposed to be the Three Sifters,
Dobel, of Boften, from Calcutta. The I
ris, , from Hamburgh (via Newbern)
and a brig called the Eliza, are below. j
About twenty vefTels went to sea on
Thutfday last, names not ascertained.
CHARLESTON, March 7.
The ship Fame, Jones, from Hamburgh
to Philadelphia, 35 days out,having met
with hard weather, in which his ship recei- '
ved considerable damage, was obliged to put
into St. Übes's ; the ship was undergoing
repairs there.
.1 '—L L
NEW-THEATRK
Mrs. Ol dmixon*s Night.
MONDAY EVENING, March
Will be prcfrnted (never performeJ h.re, a CO*
MEDY, called, ,
He would be a Soldier.
Co! Talbot, Mr. Warren
Sir Oliver )lJfiock t Harwoo4
Captain Crcvelt, Fennell
Mandcville, Fox
Count Pierpoint, Marfiiall
W lkins, Taylor
Caleb, B rnard
Amber, BlifiTctC
Johnson, Francis
Servant, T. Warrell
Charlotte, Mrs. Merry
I ady Oidltock, (for that night M: s.Oldmixcfl
Harriet, (for tfrat eight only; Mra. Marlhall
Mrs Wilkuis, Mr«. Francis
Betty, Mrs Do&or
Nancy, , Miss Milboum*
To which will be added (for the firft time on th>+
the celebrated Musical Romance of
The ENCHANTRESS j
Or, CTMON and SYLVIA.
Cymon, (Crlt time, and fur that mght only)
Mrs Marihail
Merlin, Mr. Marshall
Dortts, Morris
Linco, Hirwoftd
Damon, Warrell, ju«.
Dorilas, T Warrell
Shephejr. I, MelTrs. lavaroy, Laffcrt/, Hunter,
Matthews, &c.
Sylvia, Mrs. OMm'xon
Urganda, (the ere Mrs. Warrell
Fatiiru, Mr, Frauds
First ,M'f» Mil^ourne
Second Sliephtrtiefs, Vlif> L'Eltr.mge
D»rca«, (an o'.d Mr. llcrnard "
Shcpherdeffes, Mrs. Warren. Mrs. Stuart, Mrs.
Hunter, Mad. Harwood, Mist Ann etfmi, St.c.
To conclude withthcNUPTlAl.Scf CYiVO si 2nd
' SYLVIA—A ML.IT.ARY PROCf--»l)N of
Knights of the differfnt orders of Chivalry, fer.t
in search of Cyran, and a GRAND TOUR-
N AMEN I', csmpefed by Mr- Bym .
Tickets to be had at the ufml place,, and of
Mrs. Oldmixon, Noi 133, Arch-ftrcet.
£j" On Wednesday, T/.t d-pted Child i
—with a Tragedy (in two ads) called The
Prodigal j or, Fatal Extravagance— And
The American in London—For the benefit of
Mr. Bernard.
*#* Mr. Moreton's night will be on
Friday next.
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELL& fcf MORRIS,
HAVING eipired on the nth FebrHary last,
all persons having demands the said
Partserfhip, are requefled to furnifh 'heir accounts
far settlement ; and those in i b'ed to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the subs. * i r
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The buiinefs will be carried on as hereto
fore, hy the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
ket Oreet. iw march >4.
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made iheir efcapr, berween
1 and 2 o'clock, this mornin., two Men, who
wore convi&ed of dealing—one of them call* him
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton
Leggi* a grey headed Man. about to years old, $
feet 8 inches high thick set, with a remarkable
iargehead; Hambleton is about s6 years old, f
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the ah. ve defcr.bcd
thieves, a fma!l man, who calls himf?tf Matthew
Ivrorrifon, about 24 years old, 5 leet 6 inches high,
1 ght hair, fair complexion, smiles when talking i,
a wheel wright by trade Whoever will f cure
t ie tfc eves in any Gaol in New- Jarfey or Pennf, 1-
vania, foall he entitled to receive Ten D liars for
t: e old one. Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifoq
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgato n, march t.?. aa—mt&fjw
(J 1 N 6' K A G, '
SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CHESNOT STREET.
Wants to purchafc good GiNSENG t
gathered in season, and . lear of damage—
for which a generous price will be given if
delivered any time before the 15th of April,
march 21 , ot
NOTICE. **
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the following
-efcription, viz— No. 1(5333, 10034, and 10035,
for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May, 1797, and
flan.ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Hou r e,near 'vergavenney in England,
Esq. have-heen loft by the Capture of the ship Bac
chus, from hence Co London, in June last. This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
*pj lication will be made at the Treasury of the U.
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood.
march la js w
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-ftreec
was on the night of the 19th instant (March) bro
ken opeß, and the foilowing articles stolen, and
takan therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2378 20 \ ydS - Bloe ftr °ud single
2379 20 * _ cord *
2380 10 \ '
2381 *29 |
2383 20 J
2384 20
238J 20 i J
Tf e above reward is offered, for the difcOver*
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made am»nabl« to iuliice •
furtter reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part *f tht goods stolen, «n delivery oi the
fame t*
JOHN HARRIS, v
Keeper Military Stores,
march It. Iw
For Sale,
By Elliston Ess John Perot,
■A t 9 41, North Wtier Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate nf«.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allihad Coflet
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail C'anvals, No. i,tog
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China,
march 3 »B&f4WTo Le Sold,
A.n elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 ceres and perches, with a Beat
t to ltory brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
pl• Orchard, See. iituatc on tjie Irish traA lane, in
the t jwijibip of Moyamfcnfiag, about *>ne mile from
th« city of Philadelphia. Further particular* wil!
be mi 4 e known upen application at the office of
the Philadelphia Ga2ette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance stand unrivalled.
N. B. If tbtf above place is not fold before the
aoth in(V. it will then be rented, for the Summer
fcalbn only. 5 march 5.
Wanted,
An a Aire, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
and do tile tiufinefi us the kitchen. Sttch a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 S
Notice is hereby given,
THAT implication will be made for thrrencwal
of k Certificate of a Share In the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the Subferi
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11, 1797 —the fame
having keen loft. ' ''' ' f
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 >6w
. . h TO LET, 3
And may he entered tn Immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent Hand for
kxfiaefa. Apply to
7'homai & JoJhua Filler,
march 1. § No. J, Dock-Hrtet^
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five mi'esfrom this city, a fuberdtra
day Man who underflands gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, and would
not objtil to attend a couple of horfeS. Such
a one niaymnt with liberal wagJJ by applying
at tke otßcr of this Gazette.
N. B. Nose meed apply but those of unex
ceptionable characters.
March I.;. dt3
Custom House,
biflrifl of Pennsylvania, March 6th,
I" 1 HE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
whp may have any account or knowledge of
the capture <sr detention of any Ihip or veflel, car
go, or other property, beloaging to citizens of the
United State», residing within this diftri&, by or
under the authority of foreign nation?, iTnce the
firft day of O&ober, 179*, are particularly re<juef
-ted to in ir.formatioh thereof,»to. the Gollec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient ; fpecifying the name of the vcfTel,
ftie Captain's name, tlid number Of tons, thfc esti
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the efti
rnated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by,,or the «uthority of
what nftribn Capturdd, with such observations as
may bethought neccffary upoh the circtinaftances
Of each csfe, in-order that'ttatcments thereof may
be tr. n(mitred to the Secretaiy of theTrwfirry,
who in required to lay the Tame fccfore'thfc Senate
and House oi Rcprefaitatives of the United States,
-march ?. siot |
; —■ - » ■ —— J
' WAN'tlO,' \ J
A Gardener—a Single Man. j
NoiiV riiidapply, unltfs he can bring good re-i
commendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street. 1
m?rcb iy. V " r ,
'v.': TtiJi'sjLE, ■„ „ ,: k
By WHARTON Sff LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
» A quantity of Tariner's Oil, -
! Jiimaiiaßum, "> entitled to
111 And 2d procf Brandy, J drawbaak.
Madeira Wine, «'* 4 '
Juniper Berries, &c.
Feb. Q. eodtf
f ' I ■ I-I ~ ' ■■ t J M) i-
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
well known Eftafe, called SHREWS-
X ' BtJRY FAR\T, formerly the residence of
General John 6adwalader, situate on Saflafras Ri
ver, iii K'trlt cdunty; Maryland—containing a
bodt r9c6"acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
•f which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
• granary, Overfeer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house ,&c.&c. —The whole Estate being nearly
iurrountUd by water, it
and has a good Shad and Herringfiftuiy. It is
xonTrrriently-frt-jatcd fcrboth the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable rivir buta ibort failXrom Baltimore. There
\s a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the pemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mofily a rich loom.—
The whole will bs fold together, or dividt d into
fn aller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently fituatcd) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpojed of. For further
particulars apply to Geo&oe Hastings, on the
prcmHes, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwn.
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which is
a F.n« rith Meadow, "(the residence of the late
HbH of Sterling), it may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaieki
Thcrr are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a vsry convenient one and[a small expence would
put it in cotrijiltte repair. :
The orchard conulli of tjoc fin. bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is t>n other p»rts of said*
trafl near 30c other Apple Trees—as alio a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds. t
Also, a great Kuip.».t of beautiful- Exotics and
ForeftTreos, that'add to th« beauty and tonveni
*nce of th: plate. Its fitoation is abeut t8 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth: 10 do.
from Morris-Towfi, and I a from Springfield It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trt>ttble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incaft, on delivery of the deed's. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
N». 78, Chefnut treet.
February eodtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the joth
inft. Tickets for Sale id this Lottety, at
Seven D*Uari, at W m. £LACKBURN*s Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
" Tickets in the 4>chuylkiH Bridge Lottery, at Tn
Oeltart, where check books arc kept lor regifter
irg tnd examining in these, the Oity of Waffiing
ton, No. ILan-l Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wh.-re tickets maybe had in moftjof the Lotte
ries aothorifed by law in any of the States of the
Uaion.
N.B. The befinefsof a Brokir. inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stoik and Securitios,
dilco.ntmg Bills End Notes of Hand, falc of' !
lands, Houses, &e. fcc. will be duly attended (0 •
by WM. BLACKBURN. '
Novembtrij. j
proposals,
In/uranceO^/N^bJ^
jsszss,
on Goods contained in such Buildings)
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurancei, on ha "J^* o 'f "ahout
class, will be undertaken at a p hazar dous
hall per cent, per annum, 1 F redj which
rifques a larger pren'i 1 "" „ n( A (Adam cx
will vaiy according to circu bH ; in fomc
ceeding one per cent, per anjiu , <)nly j n
fiances, where the property infu more To
itfelf extra hazardous, but rcndcred ftm more
by the vicinity of extra
occupations, the premium demand
according to circumttarces. parti
Hopfc. and Ware-Houses, the wain *na P
tions of which are wholly of ft<>" «' be
conftrnaed, so as to b- guarded as
again!) fires from within, and tree ne^h
wrdous buildings and ceccupat'on* '» n K
b.rhood, will be deetr.ed »
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra
hazardous ki»d, in ca&s. bales, orpac' g >
pofitcd in such building, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; but it more than *.sfum
is required to be insured in one tcnemcs > .
tional premium will be required, in propo
"TiSSI. .m* t.
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
so th. risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or dafles, f ° wto d r ef "* ,?
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each cafe mu.
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
ilaneesattending it ; and these drcumftanccs writ,
in general, appear from the dcfcription accompa-.
.■tassvi 'i w*«r'' :
are preferatfle to thofc wholly wooden. And
both cases, the stile of building, how th«y_ are oc
cupied, how they are fituatcd, the ne.ghbonug;
buiklings, add how ccrupicd, are considerations to
be taieh into view. And wkh refpeS to goods,,
their'tendancy, whether from their nature, or ;
from tht manner in which they are «xpo4ed, eit er
to Commence or to iecreafe an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage »y
wet, or by fuddcri andhafi.y removal, or to be Cm
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumfitnees of WeighLj and the premiums must c
proportioned accordftigly.
ll'.Vrhe following conditiont are to be under
load ty tht parties. «
ift. TheJnfurance Is hot binding till <he itipu
latiu premium be r»'d ; bnt it Ihall be deemed et
fcflual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
figntd or not. •
•sd. Insurancet 1 iiay.be renewed at the txpira
tipn of the terjn of the policy, withou« further ex
pense« than the payment of th« premium of the re
newed term, the cif-cumftances continuing the sam«
as t+iey WereunderftoOd by the Infurcrs at the time
the former infuranct was made ; but the payment
.of- the premium is essentiaL to such reriowal. ;> and
if tha party insured fuffers any tune to elapfe-after
the expiration of thf former insurance, before he
■pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; »or canthe insurance be renew
ed on the formtr policy but by oomputing the
commtncemAtpf the-renevMl fropi the expiration
of the former, The fuijefl. of infur
■ance may ncverthelcfs be open to treaty for a new!
insurance.
jdi If any olhit insurance be made »iv the fame
property ; itmuflibe; made known at the t«me of
application, ofherwife the policy Made on such ap
plicatioa will be void. •
4th Goods held ta trufl, or on consignment,
may beinfui'ed as such in a separate policy; but
they are «ot to bo eonfidered as insured otherwise.
/thi This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage oceafioned by any for
eign invafian, or by any military or uforp.d
or by rcafon of civil commotion ; oroccafioni
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the prof,
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Defds, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be eonfidered as insured un
less particularly mentioaed and by special agree
ment. '
7th. No insurance will be made for a fharttfr
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vem years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium ihall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Losses fufiained by fire on property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduiStion.
A defci iption ot the property to be infurod will
be expedted with tach application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building ot applicant for in
surance, amf attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, whq will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpedl to Houses and ether Buildings,
ift. The lite and poGtion ; describing the
street or road oil or near which the building
ftamls ; its cantiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguifliment of sue
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftablilhed, and
engines provided,in the place orneighbouthodd.
id. The materials #f which it is built, whe
ther of brick, (lone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to theoutfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpeiflive height and
thieknefs; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by Battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 1 whether any and
what elearic rods ; the number aid kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for aihes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to indifferent persons to judge in what
nunrA it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the »ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pofejlfe an eftiroate of the value of the houl'e
or building independent of tli? ground.
4th. Ti:e Situation with refpedltoother build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, eomprehending at least sne hundred sett'
each way; what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or .ptherwife : whe
ther any and what trade or manufaflory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there V any
extra hazardous articles \ifed, or usually depo
sited in tht house, or within the distance afore-
Cjid, and of what kind. , *.
Rcfpe<£linggoeds in Hcufts,, Warehouses, Ac.
1. A j;eneial defcriptian of the building .in
which they are kept will beexpe<9ed, fimi&in
all relpe<3s,ae to the danger from fire, with that
required for Infuranie on the buildings thern
felves. 0
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
J the goods, whether in casks or other packages
lor opened ; and whether displayed in whole'
pieces or in th« usual form for retailing. And
j if tht goods var} materially i„ kind, a general
j estimate of the raJue of tach kind pr«psf e d to
i i natticulK
be ipfurcd : Out m
ness of description '» " . k ; n( j ß are deem
-3' Af T'*£. ST,O various d*ree,.
extra tl " rd ,T' c\„ mav be placed, vifc- !!
in whatrwrr b,ill^ ng ' « ax , tallow, oil,
pitch, cotton,
p'n £ £ kin d opened—
dry goods of an I>Af( . e tain, elpecially un-
GW«. china ware »r * andallo
pjcked; Looking,. '^ mon | v inflamnjahle,
ther articles mor* thancommon! yj V by
'
be ihfwtred. ,
By order of the Board,
EBHNF.ZEK See J /
ftffrr o/»e lnfvrar.ee Company*/I
* America; Ph:!ad. Feb. I, >798- 3 i
Feb. 14' ■ ; —:
Hcrnfe and Lots, /» Borde f°™"\ \
rpo BE SOLD, a handforfe two story Hou? ,
1 with the Lot on which i'
ed about the middle of the beautiful
breadth to back flreet. Also, a large Lot, eon
tabling nearly four acres, feparatcd from the
former by back street. One third only of th, .
purchase money will be execu
ihe a deed, and. for the remainder, »uch art
w , be given as the purchjfer may chufc. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrance,,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either oi Ur.
William Burius, residing in Bordentown, nea
the premises, who will
ppTER Thomson,
Convevancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street.
December 2. 3»wtf.
Lofton Glass Manufadory.
THE citizens cf the United States are hereby
informed, that the
Gl a f. J. niv.twme.ccJ.. GlalT-HMifeiii
B "lt°U needles. to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boflsn Glass, as it is so well known
throughout tbe United States to be m every ref
pe& greatly superior 16 any ever imported from
It will be cat to any (iie commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfcr-, at the <?laf» Houle. .
. Orders from the dißant Statestbbe addrefled to
Mr. Samuel ffort, Court-ftrcet, Boston.
. Two or thre« t(ooJ Glass makers ate want
-Bd,M the abeve works; such as can produce rs
comipt lpr good behavior, may be lure of
employ, by application to Mr.. Gcqrge L, Lindt, at
(he works. Men vfithout families will,be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with- the methoH
of risking Crown. Window Glass, they will meet
with tbe fapif encouragement. . ,
Boston, January 16 - a ■ —law6w
New-York, February, i
/ > i?Oi 9 OMZ-SBVGEORGEFORMAN,
rOR PRINTING BY. SUBSCRIPTION, ..
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
, t?nt only tlx menths-^eHtifled
'PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY against
E aUthe JteJigiotis and Governments of EU- ,
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, IJluminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from'good awthorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
wf'JTar of Natural Pbilofopby y and Secretary to tit
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nam tut res igitur farm cum prtximui ardet.
t£jT THIS work will be put to press as soon as
403 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the wdrk is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will comprise about 40©
pages nest oflavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—tbe price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Thofa who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to bookfellert.
*„* The above wotk comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
I eftimatioa in the literary world—the fadts thereih
recorded are well fulftantiated, and thereafonine
and argumen s thence deduced, while they disco
, vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well an to in
ftru6t. A scene of vijlaifly is developed *'*
I author fufficicrtf to appal the ftoutell heart.—The
danger to he apprehended from secret. focietiss is
i clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
1 deviation (rem the straight path of religion and
; of virtue, incoiueftibly prov.ed both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertable h&s.
; tlf Svbfcriptions taken ht by G. Formail, N0.46,
, William-Jit eel) oppo/lte, the Pojl- Office, and by the refptc
. tivc i* New-York and Philadelphia.
; February 28.
r New-Tori, January 14, 1798
1 PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
f Proprietor cf the Reading Room ;
r For Publilhing by Subscription,
1 An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
1 By Madame Roland ;
Wife Cf the Minister ®f the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS. .
These scarce and very valuable Hifterical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in j
' vols. o£lavo,«f 400 pages each.
1 They will be printed on fine paper and a jiaw
' type, and delivered to Subfctiheis, neatly bound
and lettered, at i dollar and 50 cents per vol
' ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
e ~ To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made»...
r Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
-1 Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
x Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York,.- Also, by William
Young, corner rf Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
' As soon.as a fufficient number of Subscribers
; are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmoil dispatch.
' eodim
I For Sale,
1 A good situation for 9 Country Seat,
( FOR t Y acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles'
from the City, the whole being under g»®d fence,
ahd in excellent order as pasture ground.
. For further information and terms, apply to
' Jonn Elwqtt Cresson, at his office for the
(ale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
I High-ilreet.
' id mo* i6th a 12W2W
treasijry department,
IKIL MARCH I, [798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
.at rans-refs passed on the fix.h day of July one thousand seven hundred and
iVpurfuance ?f the A<? e» <-• du ,i es on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and th«
' nir.ety-ffven, day 0 f Uec one thousand seven hundred and ninety-f.vea, etttulei
AA passed on the fW™" limited time the commencement of the dtfties imposed by the Ad cnti
« An Ail to P° PP nC jf on * Stamtied Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after the
tl-d " An A-ft f£Veral^tamped Cutifcs hereafter enumerated, >vill be levied and collec.
■ pnf Vellum or Parchment, or flieet or piece of Paper, upon which shall be
For every flun or f ( inilruments or writingsiollowmg—to wit :
written or primed any or either 01 , m
Any Certificate of Certificate of the adiniffiorf.fnroltrent «r registry of 5
Attoi nry,(i dyocate or Pro«.r, in a«y Court of the
ot the Uni,ed
~ g Letters' J wide rh e teal or authority of the United State,
graht * dr - letters - patcnt ' *
r wm or '
Anv Receipt 01 nr a nv share or part of a perlor.al estate di
ther tclfainentary ...ftrume .t, o,n »- any, fta p .1 chu .
vided by for« otany a u c aitieont whereof shall ht
SSKSSU »■ .h. -o
---£ SgUL, °«"." ndrEd D » lto - ,nJ
A'ajl not five hiindi ad dollars, pdlars, the additional furn of" I
it ».• « nf what nature soever, that pass tbe seal of any
"note or o'ther ji^te.ath Ar thau any'recognizance, bill.bohd, or other
Zn ox contraa, made to or with the United Smes or any tote, or for their
Vwenfy dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolors, - ,o
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, s0
Atwl if above oiie thousand dollars, " " ... -2! i
bon+tftur notds payable at
- Pr £tb U»ds or iwler Call be to ouly two fifth parts of the duty
If ib*vTtwc^ty V dollar3 and not exceeding one hundred doHa-rs - j 4
If above one hundred dolUrs and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 10
Jf afeove five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, » io
If above one thousand dollars, ... - - - " , 30
Anv Notes iffu«d bv ?hebanks now eftablilhed, or that may hertafter be eftaV
lifhed within the' United States,-other than the not'os of iuch of the laid Banks
as shall arree to an jnnual composition, of one per ctntum on the atinual di
vidends made by I'uch Banks, to their Stockholders relpiflivHy, according to'
the following fpale. - - " * ,
On all notes not exceedieg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - »
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars. J0
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five Hundrfd
dollars, " 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - f »
Any Protest or other Notarial afl, . * " " *S ■
Anv Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pennon, or t» obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the' United States as bounty for military services t J
performed in the late war, . * ■ , . . " *5 '
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Ctiftoms or duties, for less than
five'hundred dollars. - - * * - 1
For five hundred dollars and not thbutahd tfollarj, 1 "
For more than two thousand dollars, - - - ! 3 i
Any n«e or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tofee exported, ,
If fro ii) one diftritSt to another diflria of the United States, not being in the , .
fame State, - * - 'O
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - it
'Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeits, made In atiy
ease required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for '
rent or taxej, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) jo
Apy Certificate of a Share in jpy Company, of a-fhare in tbe-Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10.
If above one hundred dollars, - - »5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollar*.
11.
The duties aforelaid will he collected and received by the Supervisors, Infpe&ors aud other Offiters
of InfpeiSion, in tke several Diftriits, Surveys and Divisions of the United States, dud by such ir.Ref
perfonsai shall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Ciftn'iSts for
that purpose. *
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftri&s will, prior to the firft day of July enfuinj, and a» soon is
may be practicable, mark orftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels if Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties; Oil
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be at
tained at the rates prefcrihcd by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpcflor, Officer of lufpeitwn,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Didrrds
CIV EN under my Haui, at Philadelphia
t,
March 10. Secretary of ike Trea/ury.
N O T I C E.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Fleewtoob, of
Liverpocrt, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly altefled ; and those who are indebted .
to the fame, are 'desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, 1 ,
Nmj, So. Third-street. \ Adm,nl r
January 4. dtf
Just Publiflied,
And te be had at the Book-flores of Mefirs. D»b
son, Campbell, Younc and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the-Caulcs and Cure of Remitting »r Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&rce of
different authors': and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefiing fafis and iefleitions relative to
the Synechus Ilicrt'tits, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftreTi and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns.of ths United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Falow of. the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philolophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*.;m§1 —*.;m§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufe fqoare. This lot is fi'iy-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two fmalitwo story brick houses, and a
number of fsoaft tenements thereon.
■dlfo, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. Gtuate on
Water street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
tyrfour feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of gonds.
Fhis property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for o<ifh. For further isforniation apply
to the printer.
J"'y JI. m&wtf
Saiifbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# fats busi
ness, offers this Eftaie for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Borting "Machine, and a very good £ift
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a good Forge, all
in perfett repair, as are all the Water Works conniv
ed with tliefe varloui branches. The Air Furnifcei
ere lately built for tfie purpose of casting Camion
for this State. —There are aboui two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very finc'arabfc Lar«d, producing the best Hay and
Pafturc. The Cannon lately mannfa&tired there,
fjully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world*; 'fdr'nol one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bbred
into 32 pounders Have failtd on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufatture, aad a place of arms lying in the state
of Conne£ticut,and only 30 miles from faveral land*
ings on the Hucffon's Tiver,and having every advan
tage that can rcfult from 0 plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufefiil purposes. Tfie purchaser can beaccommodat
ed Wiih all the stock and utensils* and have poHeflion
09 or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for goinginto B'all im
mediately thereoiter, for every part will be delivered
ill good order, with foraC coal, Ore, «&<:• Jot
term*, apply to Mr. jofeph Anthony, in Phi a e -
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentauves
in Congress for this State ; Mr, Waterman, on
theprenkfes, or to theproprietor in New*-York.
WILLIAM NEiUON*
Dee. i. *> wtf
. *
NOTICE.
A Manufactory of yellow and delft wW*
Such as Bewr was in this Country before, has cen
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Lan njr,
onthe East Bank or Hudson's River, state ot We
York, where any article of forts and ®P
may be executed, as well as earthern ftovM up
new conftru&ion, that saves three fourths 01
coftiifebhly used in cast iron (loves or opeh chvmj 1 •
they arobefidesvery whoiefome and oroame a,
J. mouchet, ,
Wanted a fldllful hand to attend to the baking »»«
glazing part of the said ware. Generous app
ments will be given. as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Elq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
r- u codiv
Feb. 19.
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or ne®
the centre of the city—for which a generon
rent will be given; to be taken for * y c ? r ! or °
more for a longer teem. Inquire of th® Pnnte •
OA. I J., aorf