° f and
*». ,« 7 . 3 — N " 11 9 Cbeftiut Street. .
NVJIT3£2 1687. J
JUST PUBLISHED,
Ar.d to be feld by WILLIAM WQODHOUSE
Ns. 6, fouth'Etem flfeet, Philadelphia, '
The Young Chemist's Pocket
Companion ;
CONNECTED WITH
A PORTABLE LABORATORY;
GONTAIMXG
A Pbilofopbical Apparatus, and * frcut number of Ghe-
Mat Agenti ;
£jr which any perton may perfonrf an radlafs va
rieff * ari nfing and isftruAiag experiments ;
intended to promote the cmitivation of the Sci
ence of Chemistry,
BY JjjMES WVODHOUSK, M. ».
- pirtfijfor ef Cbewrijlry in the University of Fcnnfylnn
nia.'Vtc.
AT MB»i»T'i£»EllT THING THAT IS HOT ,«£.
NOMINATED CHEMIST* V, .8 KT A SMAU PA*T
• F A WITIB Of NATDHAL SKOWItDSC.
■ifriijli,ey on Air.
THE chest connoted with Ais book is-one Foot
'■ 4 * h«!t oar fjat-icosfci, uid ~4ko»t (be
attn-fc'inhr.. Itcenfift .o, two »p*rm>e--*; T>r
f~* «'«cjui»in»twe*cytwcbottleswith the
tolLwi-ag tests, in a, puie a state as pdSble.
I. Sulphuric Mid
%. Nitric acid
3. Mtfc-iatic aeid i
4. Carbonic acid
j. Oxalic acid
t. Aelohol of galls
1. Solution of pot afti
8. Pot aft in powder
9. A X'T'
xo. Solution of the fulphats of iron
il. Solution of the iulphate of copper
i». Solution of mercury in the nitric acid
it. Solution of Giver in the nitric acid
14. Solution of cortofive fublirnate
IJT. Solution of the acetate of lead
16. Solution of arsenic
17. Solution of the muriated barytes
it!. Sulphate of^^agnsfia
19. Lime w«*rv*
I®. Prtffiata of lime
*l. Prufliate of pot ash
si. Ammoniate of eopper
The lower apartment is a drawer, in which the
philosophical apparatus is placed, and a number of
agents folded up in paper, as
I. Strips of paper Hawed bine by the tinfture
of litmus
1. Litmus paper turned red in an acid
3. A small bag, containing genuine litmus
4. Paper, dyed yellow by turmeric
J. Turmeric paper, turned brown by an alkkli
6. Paper, dyed red by Brazil wood
7. Brazil tyeod paper, ftiu- .jd purple !>y an al
kali
8. Zinc, in small pieces
9. Copper, in small piece*
If. red lead
11. Iron filings
11. Sulphate of copper
13- Nitrata of copper
14. of ammoniac
IJ. Acetate of lead
16. Carbonate of litis
'"%?■ Sulphur
The Apparatus eonfiib of
1. Glass fjphons
* blow-pipe, of tin, eopoer, or ftlver
T- "* KMU'iCX "
4. TnrrtmaniHUßl&ai pmwt -
5, a glass funnel
t>. a measure for liquid*
7. a fraall pestle aiid mortar
g. Scales and weights
The book is a duodecimo of 5$ pages; contain
ing a method of performing one hundred experi
ments, tbe greater part of which are made in a
common wine-glais, and many of which are the
uofl brilliant which occur in the fcicnce of Che- 1
miftry. An explanation is given of the pheuome- J
na which take place in eaeh experiment, and a sim- r
pie manner is laid down of preparing rrtoft of the f
'tegs when expended. f
By means of this Chemical Companion ami Port
able Laboratory, gentlemen who have not had an
opportunity of attending an experimental course
of Chemillry, may themfelrea, and pen
form, -with ahe greatest cafe, lh« celebrated exjieri
ments of Frieftley, Prouil, Bergman, Scheale,
Maequer, 'and the firft Cheg.ifU of the age.
Jaiijar.y 19 mtictjt
AND TO BE SOLD BY
James Humphreys,
North Third-Jirect, the corner of
Cherry -My,
(Priceone Dollar neatlv bound ar.d lettered)
An ENQUIRY into the DUTIES of the
Female Sex. 1
By THOMAS GISBORNE, a. m. ,
The following among others are the principal
Snbje&s of this ufeful Work.
temalc Education. Of t»e mode-tf intrtduc
ing Toting tVamtn into general Society. Female
Cor.verfatisn and Epijlolary Corre/pondence.— R
Dre/i. Amufementi. Excess in the pitrfuit of
Amusements. Employment of Time. Confeder
ation) antecedent te marriage. Duties of tn'at
rimanial Life, <zuith a view to different Situations
and Circumflances. Parental Duties. Duties
qf the middle period Life. Duties of the De
(line of Life. ' , J
£S* From the title oi the foregoing work it f
may perhaps be imagined, tlut the Enquiry is '
altogether arid exclufi*e!y direilfd to the duties S;
of the Female Sex : it tbjjfrfore, may not b» un- P
nectflary, or unufeful, so remark, that many of
the chapters contain matter relative to the c»n
<Juft of both I'exes, and particularly those which
relate to the duties of Matrimonial Life—Parental
Duties : —Duties of thf Middle Period—and of ■*"
the Decline of Life. —And the reader of either
fe* that peruses this work with a view of gain- A
itig information leading to fubilantial pleafore,
will assuredly not be disappointed. .In fad, it
is a wark interesting to the happiness of Socie
ty, and mult be ufipful wherever read j tending 0
not only to point out in easy and engaging lan
guage, the piths that lead the youthful mind to
Ifappinefs and comfort, but those alio, in the a
walk of which, theparent and the middle period
ofHfefcall find sincere delight, and declining
years render themselves comfortable and happy
with all around them.
Philad. faa. 29. *jt
NOTICE. "
ALL persons who ha*e any demands against ■ p e
the estate of WILLIAM CO MP TON, late
°' the city of Philadelphia, deceased, are requeft
«£i to furn : fli their accounts, duly atceftedy And
tdoie who are indebted to said estate, are earneft
iy folisited to make immediate payment, to either
o; the Aibfcribers. 1.
Isaac Cathral!, 1
yohn Haiuorth, > Administrator. , n
Samuel fVikox. J Ea
January ey, 0 ws4w
—" ' | ' 111 fr '' J- ~ '--j- * ' Y / * *
PHILAB ELP W1 j „ —— — .... .1 _j„
—: ; •• Monday evening, FEBRU4RT a< 1793.
ior Savannah. nm _ ' • — — _______
hse, For Savannah,
fcet
Tt regular trader)
w[LL C f lt l Gt, . BBEN ' maJlcr > '
• Permitting) has h» H Hr " the (ice ■
Piffen»,r« F „rP " ? a^ommodatin„ 9 f„ r ,
Itet-ftreet, or - j
'i-1 s; J- Frazier, !
;S -" i - February v No - -W h hrout-llreet. ,
For Savannah, '
y - W T0 S -<IL THE FIRST OPENING
by- L JT 51 THe £nft failing lliip
" T ta& SWIFT PACKET, 1
■V ® >ATRICK Gribsin, Master !
k SBS®«bS!
■- 1 -™ i-s-rS;-
rt/y i y Soutn Front Street.
Wr» hav-c on band, and far Sale
December ly
——irr —— 3tawtf.
Nicklin & Griffith,
At then- Store on Walnut StreetWharf
,s n i c t HArn FOR SA «.
,?8 hiids. of Jamaica Rum
M.ideira Wine in pipes and hhds.
1 etieriifc do. in pipee
Old Port do. m hhds.
slnrln T r' i? qUarWr6 and ei ghths of chests
Sail Ca.nvafs, No. i, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
"•Ami c WdU "* j " m « k »
Blaek quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Tellow ochre dry m calks ; (•
rof And at New-York, onboard the f 1
ftip Diana, from Liverpool, ercjSejfted round '!
ure ** '• on as 'he navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals a
Spanifli Brown
Venetian Red j *
tan Purple Brown I -,.- Kj _ s t 'j
Patent white F AINTS
al- White ,V a d
Red le4d j i r
Coleothar vitriol 1(
160 bundles Sheathing paper ti
Seaming twine p
Ship Diana, s
r Sale or Charter.
L S O, p
y GRIFFITH. t
January i. eodtf 1
For Arnfterdam, w
The Skip in
a FARMER, la,
John M'Cctllom, Mailer; he
lc * WTLi. fail in a few days, the pu
ie " renter part of her cargo being
ready. For freiglrt of fifty tons of Coffse, or pas- Gi
sage, apply to the matter oa board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
rN / JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, ont of the said Ship, from fiotir- M
deaux, and For Sole, 3
ti. in hhds.
, . PC
l«i White Wine in quarter caflcs
Claret in casts, of a superior quality
Fontiniac, t j |(
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
LimiUe, S p°'
Prunes in boxes —-
Rovember 24. $
For Sale or Charter, Ti
The Snow -*-]
te /fltaar good hope, l
Will carry about 1100 barrels, and oh!
«i§ro%S§Ml is ready to take in a cargo. Fortcpns not
fci y apply to ire
Pragers tff Co. f,l ' r
o anc
e- No. 151, South Secend-llreet. j- n(
le Whd have for fale—£rime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tetieriffe wine.
of November 7. dtf*
r- 7 7 7 7
t- For Savannah, in Georgia,
' ls THI SHir
Sally Butler,
Captain Chi»holm,
ft A new vessel, with excelleftt
is ace<wnmodation» for paflengfers—
Sails 00 the 10th of December. For Freight or
1- Passage, apply to ROSS 15* SIMSON.
>f IVho kave to diffitfe of,
1- A small invoice *f GLAUBER SALTS J
h INDTGO, and a p«rccl of HOLLY WOOD.
a | novembur 18.
. 3
•r Just Publiflied, (
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meltrs. Dob-
>) son, Campbell, Young and OaMßon,
it in Philadelphia,
> OBSERVATIONS
S On the Gaufes and Curs of Remitting or Bilious
1- Fevers.
O To which it annexedy I
e AN ABSTRACT of the' opinions and praAice of 3a j
J different authors : and an APPENDIX, etHib
? iting interesting fads and rcfle&ions relative to j
} thzSyn.cbu, 7/7«-r«V.-i, or Yellow Fercr, which _
has oceafioned so much diftrefsand mortality, at
different periods, in fevcralof the fcaport towns ril
of the United States of A merici.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
L Fellow of the Philadelphia Colltge of PhyficjM",
e and Member of the American Plnlofophical So-
J ciety.&c. lh i
For Sale, ,
r A complete file of the Philadelphia Gazette for
the year 17*7. ... n , u.i,,
Also, fevera! other files of Gazettes, publ.flied
in this cky, for thelaft 9 mwith? of the year 1797.
Eequir'e at no. 94, north "Front-ftictt J J^
January 24. J
- * J * +-SJ.I lLi KJJ J
War-Office of the Un'ited States,
'«•» Coming
■' cc To Chech in future r v,°" instruments. j
f " r thought alvifea 'fc .Si it has been
or
the\'!.l sUb u aWiS 1 te fuA cW <"«. » OH3 obtrvanee „1
beWi/ the War Office will '
r ed by Ae'ivd 1 a " d J a dd(iltion to hit is
1 ' of r "n s ', th " ccn,ficst * ° f the »^oW
'» also set forth the T or ''"Wer Attorney, mull
ow „f.v i ° the-placc of refidentjl tad occupatio*
«- met .'t'Th "" r rI "" ackniwlcdg
•f- is by a whn f P '2. oi of kiwwledfe
is oy a wttntrfs or witncflW. tkrir pfoicaa r>W r - r.»
treSaenocmuft be fct /,„th i„
Jan. 7 . J AMSS > yof VV..r.
. d6«r
iria ti T _ T >o* SALE, r
Fff e ®y JOHN MILLER, £# Co.
No. 8, Ch.lnut-ilrecr,
One hundred and eighty bales
bengal goods,
- „ Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Ba tas Sarnas
Cum nahs T an r«a Coffics
Guazi-s Entertrcs
B'ue Cloths Calicoes
l. . P:!an, poors Romall Handkeichiefs
Among-, them are a great proportion of the
of Patna,
ta- Dtiember i'.
To Bg Sold,
A GREEABLY tot'he lad: will ar.d tefha*nt of
p w >iWAM HrriuAU, deceased, and poffef
ion given immediately, a valuable property inArch
ie between Third and Fsurth streets, confift
nd the house. No. 107, wnhthelot oh which
" ls , e .' a and other i.nprovemenU.—
haufc is lift feet front, and contains ten pood
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and jdj feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cifterfi, both with pumps
Wffoop repair. The liable Hands on the rear at
the loj and will aecommodr.'r four holies and a ear
nage. ; hi» property enjoy.tr perpetual privilege
of a2O ieet court aadan alley, g f : . c wide,extend
ing to C.isrry Street. Its central p<. fition and the
advantages it poffefTes with refpeil to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfan wishing to possess in eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
1 or further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
RaBEiT HEYSHAM, V
_ or Exeautors.
Fiawcis Bowes Sayrs, )
January II 5
W. HAYDOff,
Delineator of Z)ra-u.-inr—f London,
-l- t r Ylfk<»«i h n 1n» -m- •- - - - - - ■>. a. mm
tmm.nt mailers in that fcieiice)
"INFORMS hi» friends, that he has re-commenc- I
X od his private tuition.—Terms, us ufuai, Sir ,
Dollart per month, for atteiidai)64» three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint-
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. on the above terms. 1
W. H. flattens himftlf his terms will be particu- {
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as 1
he makes no additional ehafge if there aft two
e pupils hi one famijy.
A line direA«d to W. H. left at the office of thii
Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9.
The owners of the Brigantiae i
. Mercury, Wi'liam Uron, master, captured by '
a Spanilh privateer and Wei at Ceuta m last De C
cember, may receive iaterellipg informaci'pn r<f- 1
peeling her, by applying to the Department of 1
State.
* The Primers in th« sea-port towns of '
the United States .will remief a fer»ice to the
concerned, by iolerting tiis above ia tbeit'Eewfj ,
papers. Jan j. i,
v > NOT I C ¥.. h °
To holders of J.-IMES GREENLEAF's R
and EDWARD FOX's Engagement*,
IN consequence of iviaaiv living>>een prevent
ed, from late unavoidable tircumftances from
I obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former *
•, notice. The Trustees now inform them, they f<
are ready to iflue the lame to tbofe who may ap- c
ply within Cxtydays, at No. 8 Chel'nut Street,
and those who do no!, wi[l be confidercd as re
linquilhing .their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for tliei' paymeur.
HENRY PRATT,
TU(. MAS W. FRANCIS, tl
JOHN MILLJER, JUN. f
JOHN ASHLEY, fv
JACOB BAKER. g
December ij. dtct
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
a quantity of Bengal COI'TON J
Bengal SUGAR., in bags and boxes {
Jamaica, ce
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and B. ngal J t
joocaflts RJCE, 2nd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
■ o<a.a 7 .- .
To be Exchanged for
BrUlJhy German, or India Goods,
!N THE PACKAGE ;
A tracl of valuable Land k,
In Lycoming, joining that of the Hollaad co. hr
anJ containing 10,000 Acres. he
Inquire »f the Printer. an
Philadelphia &Lancaster Turn- »»
pike Gompany.
January 4, 1798. £
At a meeting of the Prefdent and Managers, fto
th'ts day, a dividend oC 5 dollars per share was Gr
declared for tkelafl half year, Iwhich <wiil be by tol
them returned, f»r the payment if the debts of tht
the Company, agreeable toa rcfolplicn oftbeStock
holders the \ith June la/l. ' she
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of thePbiladehbta& LancaJlcrTurnpikeCom'py. ele
Januaryt' m&ww
\
es, The holders of the accep
tances, enJorfeuifnts snd ofhtr engagements
.| n of Edward T6x, for account of
nta! rceo ' ea f> a , r « hereby notified, that Wed-.
:nts. ' !R fday, the 14th February next, is the lift
>een ; a y» on which they caa adroit fubfcriptious
tiros to the fund assigned to them for the pay
raent«f said cugagfctaMU 5 and-ihat those
i»ir rs > u 'ho d» (tot on or before that day
•'are ma ke thor fiiWrriptioi»& ) wiU be excluded
uch frorfi the benefit thereof.
tcr " Henry .Pratt,
. 7~. W. Francis,
W ,U ' John Miiltr, jun.
uir j jf u^n -'filly*
5W * Jacob itaker.
W* Jaiiy 29. dt£ •
J[ IN THE PRESS,
| <dndfpftdijf will Pubhfhtd.
A PtXN
. U eftablifbiDga mmeral MAKING-SOCIETY,
r ! and ii;{V«fri* of
Now printed for the benefit of, that Inftitmioh,
BY THE AUTHOR.
n A NAT? would be maintained bpt to an alnicft
ulelris purpefe which taking the teamen kept the
merchantmen idle in purr, and traii:»£ veflete
would be as unprofirably employed, if they took
all thofefcamen whofe(k< 11 and courage onb- ard lhip,-
ot war, would giVe them pr ceil ion aadfecitre*
their fafcty. We hav enough for both pur-poses,
and the cultivating hand •/ attention alone iswatat
ing to multiply theirnuraber. " Money may buy
" all naval stores, eltcpt mariners; but, unless a
s " iupply of them is wealth will be
the " able to proeuhe them "
January jo. §
Surveyor General's Office.
■j December 2, 17,97.
tof f\ N a releaft of survey of 453 acres, £8 perches
M- yj of land, lijuatt in lower Smithfield tmvnfkip
rch Northampton county, surVeyed to William "Wills,
5a- per warrant of March, 17S&, the. Deputy Sur
ich veyor hath mad« the following uote, viz,
• This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
iod George Taylor, not known by what right.—-C«r
the t'fied for Daniel Broad head, El'q. Surveyor Gene
,ad ral—William Varter.
Ips The firft Monday in March next is appointed fcr
of » hearing of th« parties «n the a ove fctreat, or any
ir- others interested or ctmcernad therein, they having
:*re at leaf) thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
id- of the Land Office.
, h , c iv. Lufborough.
n ~ January 26 §tiFzwWn
hi- Copper for Sheathing,
. For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-street, near Fifth.
r«. January 29 , diw
- Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
To be had as a moderate price—inquire at
N«. 138, Arcli-ftreet.
ft —Mi
—The Subfcriberj
ix Informs those to whoa he is indebted, that his
i a book;, which have been kept open for their infpec
i6 _ fion since December 1796 are balanced to the j1 ft
19. u ' t- and wi " during the prelent month remain
Open at his CountiHg-houfe in Chtefnut Street for
as t ' leir further inveitigatioo r.ud fcrut ny.
JAMJiS GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. til 17518.
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom it may intereil or con
_ cern, thac the Judg.s of the Cuurt »f Common
e l'leas have appointed MM*y, the t-wenty jixtb Jay of
t y February ntxt, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
e . Court-house in this city, on the fufejeft of his peti
f. or the benefit of the Infolveftt Law—-and
r that (heir attendance i? desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF. '
»f ' Jan, r6. eotlitllF
le The Subscriber Intends to make
application for the renewal of 1 Certificate ofrSh*re
in the Bank of the Unilfd States, {landing >"' he name
ofA.B. dated July it. 1797. tbe f»mc I
hiving*been lolt. JOHN Git AH AM.
j- Richmond, Dec. t. 5,6w '
t. ' PROPOSAL. •
n TTAVfNG met with a liberal pafronage, thp
r -t-L Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals
y for printing liy fuhf;ription, the JOURNALS OF -V
CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 177 cto I
the present time.
This work lhall be printed with a new type, C
j made for the purpose ; and on jjood paper. It j
will be delivered at o.ie dollar per volume (oSta- ,
vo) in 6 vok.—eafh to fie paid on delivery
It isneedlefs to fay any thing of the merits of J
this undertaking—th-; fcarctty of '"the Jotiroals
throughout the United Spates, is fufficieht to jtjfli
fy th» printer in his hope of meeting with that „
success, which he is certain th» en'erpTize
JOHN PARKER. „
J'tt.27. d«t< f
. NOTIC E. -
A I,L perfnns who have arty demands agamft I 1
th; estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, nfterchant, de
ceafefl, are requested to exkibit their ac counts,
properly attested ; and those who are iudebted
to the fame, are detired to make immediate pj
paymeat, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ . .. ,
No. 25, So. Third-fli eet. j Adm " l^lr r '
January 4. dtf
All Persons
Having any demands aja : nft the Eflate of the v\
late Captain George Irwin, are reqtitfted to v\
■ bring in their accounts pi operty altefted, on or ft,
before the firft day of January next ensuing ty
and rfiofe who are indebted to fafd eftatt are so w
licited to make immediate payment to r-
SARAH IRWIN, Adminiftrairix. a
■ nrv.i 9 1797- $ or
To be fold, m
An ELEGANT COUNrRY SEAT, contain- pr
ing 6 acres and 40 perch-s, with a neat two foi
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple pr
Orchard, <cc. situate on the Irilh trait lane, in the
townfrip of Moyaraenfihg, aboat one mile from
" the city of Philadelphia. FurtJier particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
•he Philadelphia Gazette. In
The improvements upon this place, for tatte and go
, elegance, stand unrivalled. i 1
December 1. dtf
, N -» [Volume XIII.
■ ■■ »
p- Eafkeoridge—tor Sale.
■ uts f TwnCfts of 9»o acrei, zlmwft all cf which if
nc» a fii.c rish Mead "tit (the refiJesee of th«
'iitt Eal 9;' Sterling). It itfijr be conveniently
divided into five farnn, Fcur of which ire bound
ed or the L-ft hy tl: ntrir Pafaick.
ous Tkere are urt it a turnb.e'r of building*, form
ay- ir>g afqtiarr of near! three aeres—The dwel
offe boti.'e r» a very centerijet one, and a small
J ay r«pe«ee v. (io d'pm it in'complete repair.
{be Orchard confifh ofi.j 00 fine hearing tn
jrrafted Ajrm Tree?— and there i% <•» othor
pa fit of said trift near vio otiier /.'Jplt Trcee—
a; also a great variety of fruit*, particular
ly Chrrtiet of the beltand 121 oft delicious kinds.
Alfp, a great number ofbeautifu) jjxotice and
*creft that- ai/d ro the fctVfcty and conve
• m'tr.fce of rhe Ware. It* reflation is about i»
I .*»l ; £»-frenrtWt tjwostof Newark and Elizabeth ;
1_ joi do. ffciin »{loi r»-T#»«) sad ia fram Spring-*
'WH—It is vorfiied andVarered.
TTo five -trouble, i.y _pr,i v 'i &vc poueds pr.
aHe in caSi, on delivery of the det'bs. Pleale
r tb enquire of T. McRUFN & Co.
' 78, Chefnut Street.
February %. eodtf
• - - ' . 1 . 1
Insurance Office <of the Stare ot
kft Pennfyl^ahia.
the February 1, 1798.
feb TIfE Dir«i%)r>thave declared* dividend
>ok of seventy dollars oq eath iiiye of the q{ the
company, for the lust .fix months, which,-will he
l* re paid to the Stockholder® or their legal repfuenta*
fes, tivesafter the ffih inft.
JAMES S. COX, PrtMnt.
>etru fy t .jijt
be- Flax Seed for Sale. ?
Apply to QEO. DOBSON,
No .2$ Sbuth Third street.
J» n - a' 7. . dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
lies January, 11th, ij 97.
lip FOR THE INFORMATION $F THI CITIZIiNS.
Us, r T I HE following arrangement is made by the'
ttr - A- k'd Commiffionert, for cleaftfing the
ftrefcts, Sec.
"d piftri<S No. I. —From the nofih fide of Vine
er ~ ilreet to the south ftde of Mufcerry-flreet yto
le * be under the fuperintemlaace of Nicholas Hicka.
From the south Cde of Mulberfy llreet, to
cr tl>< fsjyth Cde of CheHiut street to be ucder the
f fiiptmidarice of William Moulder.
r*i f From the south fide ot Chefnut flreef to
' the aorth fide of Spruce street, to be under th*
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
. south fide o£ Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL, commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in tlils-Lottery, at
Seven Dalian, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
gr and Brokers Office, Nw. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
at Dollrtrs, where clieSk books are kept ior regifter
iag and examining in these, th« C: y a'. Wafhjog
-tr~ p»i,^,■{„!, <toJ intcrm.i
tion where ticket* may be ha'i in most of the Lotte
. ries anthorifsd by law in any of the States of the
Utiioa.
rft r ,r' B ' The business of aBRoKiK, in buying and
. felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities
or difcounti ig Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lards, Houses, &c. See. will te duly attended to,
b / VM.'BLACKSURN.
novemter IJ.
- James C. & Samuel VV. Fisher,
4T THM.R storm,
a- No.;X3, corner of Arch and Front llreets,
rot s'4is,
Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunks, alTorted
A few bales red, w bite, and yellbW Flannels
* Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
" XJjtto Pullic'at silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Qurrahs
bengal black Taffctles
g 4006 pieces Nankeens, jnd
Few beft Hyson Tea
f Also icso boxes best London Olafs,
, c from gby6,to 19 by 14—and ij hhds. Glar« '
'A re, assorted, which they Willdifpofe of cheaper
v than any in the city.
noverober «8. 3awtf
FOR SALE, at '
Wm. Young's Book S.tore,
P No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
3 1) EPORT of the Committee of the House of
JV Reprefentativesoftl ?United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
• again It W fLLI 4M BLOUNT, a Senator of rhf
United states, impeached of high crimes and Mii
demeanors, made in i-urfuarice of a resolution of
f the i iouftf of Re) rcfMitativei, authorizing the said
s Committee te fit during the recift of Congress, end
inftrailing thetn " ta eriqiiire, and, hy aH lawful
" means, todifcatver the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" stands impeache , and who are the aarties and
" affociatestheriin."
Printed by irder of the House of licprefentati-ue,.
December la. j
i I 1 jt Jale or to be let on ground
rent, ■.
Avaluable Lotqf Ground y
| OITUATE on the north»e»ft corner of WaJ.
. r| ut and Fifth fhctts, fronting the State-
House ' Th'iefot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut'ftreef, iild one hundred- and thirteen
feet and an hllf on' Fifth ftrefit ; there are at
present two small two story brtck houfej, and a.
ffumb'ef of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Salt,
Two'three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fittiateon
Water-street, between Mulberry and Salfafras
containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These hoafes
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on .the north fide, and are a very desirable fixa
tion for a merchant, flour fadW,or others who
ntay haveoccafion for storage of good 9. Thi»
property will be fold on very riafonable terms
forcalh. Forfurther information apjily to the
printsr.
J"*y it- m«cwtf
Tor sale, "
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would aafwer thepurpol; cf
a country printer as well u Lt».
Enquire cf the Printer. uov. 30.
*tVjisHlVGttro LorrEßr,—y,.ii.
List ot Prizes am» Run its.
151 ft Day'* Drawing—December If.
No. Doll. A#. Delj. No. Dolt. No. Doll. ■
(Aj *l63* it»tt .J6445
6ji 765 »6j jJIO6 *
7<9 789 i*i 'St
las *#ool x iiS |B>
«9» 379 * J *3554 * *76 *
13t **r*S * 779 *
47* 9" * *f' u W»°» *
i 97 »3<»S3 »*J , 7 * *°7»S
»53 x 6(9 679 * 4»34*
ajj* x I*7 x 7»J x 9*9
3 toe I4*7f *7*s* 4**96
447* *44 **s«3 43545 *»
j439 *• »7* 600 *5 4470* *
<O9 )to x 7*7 9i*
44* 364 95* 45415 x
J ;7«l x 15654 4ft *99° 6 47*"
86oi I**39 x ' J»i«* * 396 *
9481 17J17 * »»° *
867 53* 3*437 * I s*
818 6;S x 900
t«iJ3 1*«74 * 9 s * 48*68
331 x 19*68 33839 49*53 x
x*» 77 817 x 907 419 x
Sto »C 39« x 3Ji73 x 440
614 460 908 x 763 a*
ijad Day's Drawing—December 16.
4 »3 x 1149* * *46*B x 3*5*6
470 x 369 z tjiai 714
1130 986 x 730
ji*9 1*144 *6n* 37*58
663 13'»4 *B9 Jo* »
803 aßi 4jo gUito
4019 x 30* 640 46*
»M x 477 *73*7 7** *
301 87a 966 796
j 9 l 14041 100 18135 39»44
646 x 167 187 40060
799 ' 893 a 73 oil
ili 94* I*4 6o»
890 15'59 39* 753 *
5387 *36 5*5 4M76
6918 355 *B6 x 41(88
i» 4 890 x 863 6a7 x
*4» 16770 943 43714
a; 8 17564 x *9803 9*9
607 18303 x 830 44441
937 »90«3 3®59* 6a 4 x
706 a 094 869 x 4jiaß x
115 aoi4a x 31090 x 399
369 33a 348 x 316
8«x axao7 ■* 686 x 406
873 638 703 46030 x
84*9 x 9a< 914 301 x
J33 x **l43- * 3*>*7 x 861 x
489 3»8
978 370 * 415 47*78
9016 4>6 71; 4803 a x
688 x BJ4.8 J4. x Sjo x 3.70 j
3->4 **643 * 34111 774--— ~
ioa x 343 157 * 81a
575 574 ajo 49448
845 x 675 35U0 33 431 x
10053 *436* 443 x
11307 4*5 * 7*o
Recently Publi/hed,
And jutt imported from ; England, by William
OnirriTHj, No. 177, South Second ftre*t, and
may be had of Mono >n J Rhees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volume* in 2vo. (price 3 dollars)
Uluftfations of Prophecy :
In which are elucidatedmany predictions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, tlie writings of the Evan
gelists, and book Of Revelation ; which arc tho't
to foretell among other great/f *nts, a revolution
In France, 1 a vorahle to the interefls of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal powaraßdof ecclesi
astical tyranny, th# downfall of civil defpitifm,
fvjlioratioo of thfftate of the
World: togetaerwilb - - -
A large collation of Ext rails,
lnteffperf< d thrdkgh the work, and taken from
numi rcm commentators, particularly from
Jofeyh Mede, Sir lfaac Newton, -
Vuringa, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. H?ni y More, Bengelius,
Dr. John Owen, Daubuaj
Dr. Crcflener, Whitby,
Peter 1 owman,
Brenms, Bilhop Newton, and
Bifbop Chandler. Bishop Hurd.
% By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS,
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illuftrationj t>f prophecy ;
it contains a confidcrable number of fa&s or ob
fervationson the fymbolie language of prophecy, .
the authenticity, uses, and ebfeurity of the apo- .
calypfe, and thegenuinenefs of the Hebrew pro- ,
phets ; on the rapid corruption of chriftisnity in
Ait fourth century ; on the difperlion and reilora- .
cion of the Jews, the hiftpry of the lalfe Meffiabs
who have appeared among them, and the reasons
.in support of the conjecture that the Afghans are
the dsfcehdants of the ten tribes ; en the right of
fafillaace to opprelEon ; on the irruptions of th"
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fall of the Roman empire ; on thje cudons of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ;oa '
the conquests of those nations, and those of the
Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
the pad history and present ftatc of Egypt; on '
the character and condj*& of Conftantine, Juttini- '
11, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ;on the scarcity of *
books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
cline: of literature ; on tha rapid rife of the Fr :nch
monarchy, and the causes of its lall; on the in.
conCftencies in the political chara&ersof bilhops
Newton and 'Hurd; ou the peculiarities of Dr.
Th. Burnet's thoory of the earth jon the beneficial t
eflefU which ehrillianity has produced in favor 01 1
Uarningand civil liberty, and its tendency to pro- t
mote the effahlifhment of equal gefvernmeats.' j
Independent of the large proportion of original (
matter contained in these volumes, those who are 1 1
Interested in the fubjefi will, it isjrefumed, with 1 t
to peruse or consult them, because the extracts in- j ,
troduccd ia them, which are accurately cited,and , (
marked with inverted commas, arc taken from a j 1
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a: [
least if the roman catholic commentators be er- j 1
eluded) than are easily accessible t* any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or ara probably to be found r ,
in any one library in the world Thiey arc tur
nifh«J with indexes, and a copious tabic of con
tents. Jan.»»—lawiw
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILUAM M'DOUGALL preftnts his
most refpe.Sful compliments to liis Form
er employers and she citizens in general, and re- j
turns his most grateful thanks, for tht very i
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for '
these twenty-five fears part, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that hisfchool is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fonrth-Street, between Chfcfnut and
Walcut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in 'he morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. - jjwtf,
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti
ty ot Claret Bottles ot a right fize—>'®r fair-. ,
No. 13, Charch Alley. JOHN DOKSEY. I
January 1» 3taw6w.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning jvill be landed, at
Morr'u'i Wharf, j'uft above the Draw
- * bridge, the cargo of the schooner Fredc
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pearee from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in keg*
Do. Do. in box**
Mufcatsl do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almo d kernels in calcs and boxes
Solt fcell'd almonds la sacks
i Prunes in boxes
Grapst in jars
Anchovies ia kegs, J(c.
0 Tic whel* of th* aiticlcs (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
Far Salt ly
Peter Kuhn.
February j d.tt
Fresh Fruits and Wine.
Eowaid Dunant,
No. 149, Sauth Frdht-flrect,
Hat remaining of the cargo pr Johanna, from
Malaga-*-
0 99 kegs Raisins
ISCL.
IC3 ditto Muscatel do. -
'J kegs Figs
»o qr casks fine old Colemenar Wiae
A If w pipesand hogsheads of CcJalonia Wiae,
and Malaga and Mouataip Wine in hhds and
quarter e*fks.
lie has also fer Sale—
A few packagea 0/ Madiafs and Calcutta
goods, via.
Tkkery—Humhums
Barker Handkerct iefs
Blaek (nd coloured Taffities and Pe> (ians
Bandannoes—Choppa Romalls—t uilicot hkf.
Patna Chintz
Likewise a few boxes of Spermiciti Candles,
and bags of Black Pepper.
Ftb. '■
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the ijth of
February i>Btt, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchanss" Coffee-houfc ia Second-Greet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No; 1. A two story briek Hou. r e, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a lot feet front and
lOC feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. 1 his
iqjereft has lately bean let for 100 dollars per an -
num, and is situated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second- flreets, tde second house from
Mr. Caleb A Ill's.
Nd. l. A three 1 story brick Houre, lunate at
the north (aft corner of Chefnut flreets, being 14
feet on Second-llreet, and ao f*et on Chcfnut
(Jrecft, now in the tenure of Mr. Moraage, *t the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best Hands for the £ale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3.' A handsome well finilhcd three story
brick House, 10 feet front and roe feot deep, situ
ate in Fiftb-ftjeet, between Market and Arch
itects, No. 40. This house is built and.finifhed
in the madern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yird ; and the house is at pre
sent let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Pliimb-Ilreet, betw*«n Second and Third street,
being 20 feet front and 13® feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three ft*ry brick House, on
fide of Front-ftr.ett, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Wat*r-ftre*t, where it. i» Sve story. It i* »o
feet front and 43 fact deep, in complete npafc,
and u rented for 600 dollars per tnnum<
Tiv« .»■aic, wc tjuarrcr cam,
one quarter in 6 month', one quarter in 9 raoatfes,
and one quarter in I» months.
Philadelphia, Jan- 12> 1798, sawHj-f
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SJZt,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel*
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from }dy to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and heart Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms," slabs, facia, window heajs, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
• Orders from a diflance, direifted to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December 16 mth6m
FOR THE CVRE OF
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders of the Breajl and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CEXTIFICATI.
" I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
most leverc 'Cough, Cold, aad violent pain in my
bread, by taking only a few doses of Dr. Cmmeu's 1
Cough drops. CHARLES BEVANS," i
Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia. 1
From a London Paptr. **■ 1
To Dr. CHURCH. '
sia,
Having been recently restored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it J
my duty to tnak. this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others afflifted with a
similar complaint. I had been aißided with a most '
dreadful allhma for about twenty-three years. I '
never for years gofiny reft, my cough was so
troublcfoire ia the night; and ufedto discharge an
almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
from my lungs ; and my breath wasfo exceeding
Ihort that I could not walk across my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I too,
them ; and, through taking them alone, I am now
blafled be Ood! reltored to perfeA health. My
cafe is well known to the members of the Kbene*
2er Chapel, in Lincoln's-Ina-Field, of which I am
also a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
fay. I am, Sir, yonr grateful Servant,'
NATHANIF.L LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Windmill-ftrcet,
Hay-market.
Witness,
N. Langworthv, jan. No. 40,
Puttney street, Golden-fquars.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Ar* -prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and
1 sole crop! let or, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
i cine Store, No. 1 South Third-llreet, next the Mar.
| ]* et » Philadelphia; and by appointment, at Ncw
-o.^a!b y, and Co * i6 9 Pcarl-ftrcet,
and Miss Widman, in WiHjam-ftreet.
Dr. Church may be ionfulted every day, at his '
olhee, 158 .South Front-fireet, Philatla'phia.
lanpary 9. „w,w
Employment for ihe Poor. !
FLAX ton SPINNING, \
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth 1
day morning, between the hours of 10 and la i
bjck of no. 51, south Fifth street, ihove Sprue*- ;
eodjw ,
Xi)t
i. i -
PHILADELPHIA,
1 MONDAY EVENING, FB3RUAST 5.
Portia Gazette tf the United States.
OBSERVATION,
Upon the operation »f the French Cmi/lUiitiM, as
exemplified in tbetranfsflions fft.br 1 ith Fruc
tidor it h year, (nth September 1191) and the
days fallowing-
The circumftarieei which have recenly taken
' place in France, ire of 1 nature f> important at
to deserve the ferloii! jnd attentive considera
tion of every friend to liberty and humanity —
It it proper therefore ia the fir/% place to state
impartially the melt material faCU, at they are
represented hy the fucccefsful par.y, and then to
draw such ii»/Vencei ai follow naturilly frpm
them.
A military force idling u rider the commandiof
abire majority J*f therxecntivedireClory.difiblv
ed by violence the meeting of both branches of
1 the legifoturc.
The fame majority ps the directory, together
with a certain part of the legijLtive aflcmblie«
then proceeded to ail at the whole direflory
and the whole legislature.
They a (Turned likewise the exercise of the most
important judieiiry fundion!. They uuder
tuok to command that sixty-sour individuals
Ihotiid he haniihed from th* country'and their
property flj|Heftered Most of these individu
als were mensberi of' the L-gifUtive councils;
two of them wire members «f the'dtreilory.
, I hey subjeCted to the like condemnation the
editort and printers at more than forty news
papers, and pljced the public journaliUs under
the controul of the police for the term of a year.
They banifted from the country great num
bers of perfoni, who had returned to it under
the prote&ion of the laws, and cenfifcattd their
property.
'I hey aanulled all the lift eleAiont through
out nearly two thirdi of the • whole re
public, and interdicted all the pefons then
chosen in those department!,from the execution
of their fon<?tions. They expelled thereby one
hundred and twelve memhert in a mast from the
council of joo, and forty from the council of
elderi, befideathe perfoni expelled hy ihedn
crie of tranfportatian.
The interdi&ion extended likewise to all the
member! of the administration of forty nine
department! and of all the mmcipalitiei within
them, and to all the jurors, fudges and juflicei
of the peace chosen at that election-
And all those tranfa&ions are founded upon
a general afie:tion of a profound and extensive
co*H>tf«Cy 1% eflTefi a counter, revolution and re
ltore royalty.
There i« not however any one person allowed
the benefit ofa trial ; excepting against two or
three of the individual! thus fufferihg, there ii
not even the (embl&aee of a fperifie accusation
produced—againt no one of thein is there
brought evidence that could be admissible in any
court of jultice in Europe.
I The prevailing power at the fame time e#n
fider it as an unequivocal proof of their own
lenity, raildnefs and humanty, that they have
ihed no blood upon thii occasion, and that they
have not taktlc the fives of thoTt from whom
the hive taken every thing else.
_ These meafurei were all in manifeft and uu
difputed violation of the conftitucion of France,
and independent of «U aivil cotiilitutiom they
were in violation of the nataral right! of the
persons against whom they wfre pointed : nay
farther they were in violation of the firft* and
most fiiuoWlom—o Mhumanity and of ioftie*.
liberty® or»SpCTt*.
or reputation, and of opinion, right's moll of
which in the eftiraatioa of liberal and Spirited
men, are mor* precious even than thai of life
have all berk violated in the persons ofmimerou!
French oitizefli in a mast. |
The persons too against whom these proceed,
ings have been carried to the greatest extreme!
of severity,, were among the citizen! who had
rendered the most important and eflentii I servic
es to the republic. Citizens whose brows were
enriched with the laurels of victory, or still j
more adorned by the peaceful olive. Among I
them are names which Europe had learnt to
pronounce with affeCtion and esteem. Piehe
gru, whohadffhewn himfelf modest amidst the
most brilliant martial triumphs, who had uni
formly exhibited the rare example of success
without insolence, and of victory without op
pression. Bartbelemi; who had fecored' to hii
country the attachment of the neighbouring
republics, and had begun so honorably the * o. k
of reftormgtq ber the bleifings of peace s and
many other* who had diltinguilhed them
selves hy the zeal and with which they
had uniformly supported the revolution and the
republic.
The party who have thui suspended thecon
flitution, and the principle! of justice and of
humanity, to the ruin effo many persons pecu
liarly entitled tA*htbenefit.of them, alledge for
their juftificatjon, that it wai neeejfary, to de
feat aroyalift confpiiacy which had pervaded
every part of the republic, gained an ascendancy
in the greater part of the demons and a majo
rity in hoth the legislative eouncili, and intro
duced iti agents and partiians in all the judicial
tribunal!.
" In affairs ,of state" said the firft message of
the directory (o the legislature upon this occa
sion, " roeafiip* of extremity ari estimated on
ly by circumftpute!.'*/
In the fecotj4/seffage, which urgei the legif
lature to " puitgje the foil of France, of the very
small number of known and deftgnated chiifi
of the royal confoirators," they fay in yet plain
er term! " y<}u wtllbt t6td fTfrmfipd,, /», ms
willbehtint;duj),txcuj&t will _be invented,'^-de
lays will be dejired, time will be gained, and the
conftitvtion witl%e assassinated under the ap
pearance of invoking it. Thii campaflion which
ii implored for tertain men where will it lead
you f—to behold the fame men take back from
your own thread of their guilty plots,
and gather in your own bofomi the hcrrible-fire
brand! of eivil war for the deftruftion of the
country. What mijfnketpity, what/a/a/senti
ment, what narrow vie<wi are those that would
concentre the .mention «f the legislative body
upon individmds and balance between the fate
of afeiy mrnrmd the fate of the republic—we
are obliged to tell you that you are placed in un
paralleled circvtnftances, and that unless you
would abandon yourfeltet to your enemiei.you
cannot apply ordinary rules to an extraordinary
cafe." J
And in an addrefsfrom the direiftory to the
French nation, fhey fay " it cannot be doubted
but that in ntoft of the department!, the elec
tions were the work of the confuiring royslift
party"-' '
Whether these allegalioat are really founded
upon truth, of whether they are the mere fug
geftiona yf a ijMoriout fadlion to loadtheir de
feated antagotffts witb pubi c odium, the result
equally provet some great defeit in the French
conftitutinn, F<* upon t hc firft supposition, it
is evident, that the confiitution cannot be suit
able to the cllarafler and inclinations of a peo
ple, which themfelvej take the firft
oppcrt-jnitf ia power to anoiMdie, and l
upon the fttorid, th t canfiitutton cannot* ue
fiiitable kjT any peo;i!e, which gicet 110 pro
teDiun or security to the righta of individual ci
tizens against t e arbitrary proceeding! of a
prevailing party.
Letitfirli bQadmitted that the t'etfiioni thro'
a majority ot departments were tht work of the
royalist faftion, the queflion immediately Harts
forward, how ft became so strong ? How diil J it
happen that inevfry primary alfembly, in'eve
ry tommotal aflt-mbly and in every elcdloral
afiembly fifty departmentsaclear and
drvided majority <<f legal votes placed in all
deDartmentt, legislative, executive anil judicial,
men, whose favorrte objefl was the immediate
overthrow of the republic and retloration of the
throne ?
It is not polli ( bli to imagine that the periple
from whom all thcie choicfe proceeded were de
ceived or miUaken with regair! (o llie objefls,
of their preference. They could not have fe
leifted, as able and zealous friends of thercpub
lic.fucha number of perl'uns who were in truth
the agents of royalty—No—Nor is it at all pie
tended. T'le Irgifl jture in an address to the na
tion finer the revolutionary movement, teil
them that frsm the last " primary and electo
ral aflemblies proceeded a crow.l of delegate!
unknown before the revolution, or known only
by the most revolting incivifm / that in almost
all the offices they formed a majority of men
either /educed, fold or tnijled, and that almost
every where the voice of guilt and of royal in
trigue had prevailed "
It is then with open eyes, and perfeflly well
knowing what they were doing, that the majo
rity of the legal voters in the priiosry aflVm
blie.i through the greatest part of France' gave
their votestoftien whose difpofitidns wen; known
to lie hostile to ihe existing conftttution, to men
who si 'hed for the restoration of royalty ; and
the declaration of thc aflembly goet still further,
it fays that " the intrigues of the royalists were
so atiiverfally operating, and f«great were their
means of corruption and deftru&jve influence,
that it is surprising they did not every where
fneceed, but that in some few placet theele&ion
escaped them."
What thc means,of c®rruption and e'eftrudtive
influence were, is not expressly said, but it is not
easy to conceive that at any future period thc roy
alists willp'Jftfi less means of influence than they
did at any period of tha late cle&fons. It it well
known for she ia£ seven years the ruling powers
in France Ivve been in th:: continual u£e of the most
energetic means of an ahfolute and uocontrauled
authority to deHroy every vestige of a royal party.
Exile, confiscation and death, have all been em
ployed With the n-.oft unbounded liberality, to cx
tirfate, root and branch, every attachment toroy
alifm. Coercion ha! done its utmost The foil of
France has been purged, as they term it, of some
hundred v thoufandtot her children, by emigration,
by despotism, hy war,- by fhootlrg, drowning,an!
guillotining ; nearly one third U' the whole pro
perty of France hat been wrefled its owners 1
and converted into national domains, and oath af
ter oath has been jmpefed upop the remaining i»-
hahitants, to destroy every sentiment andevery in
tcreft that could htve any adherence toVoyalty.
\tt this is the time at which we are told, that
these proleribed, ruined relics of royalty, wander
ing about thc earth in vain to ftni a lhclter, and
fcarccly having where to lay their heads, possess in
fluence to command and dire A the choice of the
people almost all over France.
It is impossible to account for this enormous fl
yer-ruling influence, but upon tha supposition .ei
ther that the petplf of France find upon experience
the government under whjch they now live less
calculated to promote their happiness thin they
think it would be if it were tempered with a por
tion of kingly powfr ; or that the majority of the
fuffrages were given without regard to the puMic
interest : were bargained away by rank and un
qualified corruption. . ,
4i tfle jccmrima
na}orii tHe French people to detest the repuh
lit, we may be confident that it cannot last long
under its present form. It may he converted into
a Military republic, bearing a semblance of dem -
cracy, hut no will be left to the jexer
eife of the people. They will '• have nothing to
do with the laws hut obey them." For it is net
by sieafures like those which have 'lately been
pra&ifcd, that alienated affc&ionscan be regained;
it is not by the violation of every principle of rep
resentation, that infidels to thc system of represen
tative government can be reclaimed. When the
people fee the objects of their choice, forbidden
the exercise ef their functions, baniibed their coun
try, and treated like thc vilest malefactors, with
out Sentence, without trial, nay without accusation,
by the mere law of force, and military violence,
the people may be silent. they may even listen to
1 addreflV-s which ring all the changes of liberty, of
patriotism, of virtue, and of equality in their ears ;
they may beart«betoldthattheirconllitutioriha>beei;
suspended for a mapient, the better to preserve h ;
all the holy fervors of democracy may kindle to
illuminate their mindt with the glories oF the rep
resentative system—in vain—they will remain
" dark, dark, dark amid the blaze of noon I '.
thry will never bend their Understandings to the
logic of fach a government, nor their inclinations
to tho diAaus of such teachers ; at the very next
eleition they will repeat theproofs of their royalist
prediUClions, they will again choose for their lc
giflators and judges, characters unknown tb the re
vciiition.- or known only for their incivifm ; again
the neceifity will recur of favingtheconhitution by
prolcriptions and confifcations; again will the lub
lime conllitution find itt only Support in the mer
cenary arm of the soldi er.
The conllitution hat consecrated the principle of
universal fuffnge in the primary aflemblies, and
upon the very firft occasion in which toit fafcinat
ing theory hat been reduced to practice, such are
the confequcn.-et, that almost every where the voice
of guilt, and-of royal intrigue has prevailed.
This principle.of universal fuffrage in the i rima
ry alTrmblies, was indsed the great and fundamen
tal point upon which the French revolution Wasf.iid
to be founded: for this a'l its severities have been
juftified and all it! exseffes palliated : iu this, ac
cording to the leading revolutionary theonfts con
lifted the eftlntial lovereignty i f the ponple : it was
this that cloathed with tranlct odeni brightness the
genius of democracy, this that raised his towering
head so high above the pigmy elvei of aristocracy
and Bionarchy. We remember well with what an
awful solemnity the very name of tht people was re
sounded, in the early stages of the revolution —All
wiSdom, all power, all goodness, were in the lan
guage of tkeir encomiaftt, their appropriate quali
ties ; and^Scarcely cc»ld the attribute! of heaven
itftlf, supply the popular orators wi h epithets ex
preflive of their adoration for their fovertign peo
ple. ( To h c winded to morroxv.J
From the Far/nors Weekly Museum.
To proportion as public opinion is right
or wrong, the found principle! of our conlli
tution will be cherilhed, and the wife mea
sures of our govefhmefit supported by the
citizens ; or, on the contrary, falfe and er
roneous principles will bring in bad men,
and bad measures arc furc to follow.
It i 6 the undoubted and uniform tenden
cy of every revol'ltion to propagate, at least
during the heat of the contest, a violent de- j
mocratic spirit, which is seldom friendly to
rational liberty, while it lads, and is almost
always fatal to it, when it expires. For
nothing is more likely firft to diftrcdit, and
then ruin n good cause, than carrying its
principle! to ektiewe*. The forlorn and t'
moil desperate condition of French fibtny
isan example Hill reeking in blood, ftillftucals.
ing in ruins before the eyet of mankiadt—
No (latefman ever talked fairee, do imi e -cr
afled worfc. No theories were erer wrought
with a smoother polish, or glittered more
with the mock diamonds and tinsel of phi- #
lofpphy ; and never did the servile maxims
of despotism, and the rage of tyrants inHi :l
a more diffufWe and pefliferous curse upon a
nation.
We are more astonished at *he contrail be
tween theories and measures, between pro
phecies and events, between the i»«ie men
demagogues and we ougkt to
be. We bverlook, or want patience to ap
ply, the known laws of the human eharac.
ter and paflioDs, and the unvaried testimony
of bidory.
It has been already hinted, aad the writ
er has not'the fmallaft heTitation in aflerting,
that the teadeneyof public opiiaion has beta
oftea milch too democratic iathe United States.
The, uatxpended (teat of our own revoUiti.
on, and the fcorehing and blading refledi
on from that of France hare not permitted
the American republic to enjoy that unia
terrupted health, which many were led ta
anticipate, from the foundnefsof iti tempe
rpraent, and the prudent exa&aefs of its re
gimen. The public pulse has been nftnj
timet feverilh, and the nervous fyftstri inita-
I»le to a degrae, that indicates a morbid lea.
ven of democracy hi the blood. The jjlhayv
and whiiky insurgents fu«cellively aflumed
democratic principles, as equally true and
popular, and endeavoured, thank heaven in
vain, to cxite an enthufiaflic zeal to sustain
them. The decline of (jfhis fiery spirit will
be lamented by those, who cannot conceive
that the love of liberty exillt, if it be not
exalted to fury. With them it is not a
light, a diftate of reason, but a passion,
qaally sanguinary and stupid ; sanguinary,
because it neither discerns, nor approves a
ny, but violent means, and, stupid, because
if left to itfelfjtt is fu[e to destroy its obj*a.
Accordingly we hear the democrats affeSt.
ing to lament the supposed extinction oftht
spirit of 1776, at if there were no reason
for repose, when the struggle is over. When
refiftar.ee ceases, the passions must
nor is it in nature for them to keep up. It
would be well for us if that revolutionary
fervour had afltrallv parted off. However
necessary it may be for the security of liber
ty* when it it endangered, it didurbs the
tranquil possession when it is not. Every
popular ferment bewilders the judgment of
those, whom it affefts, and is the fruitful
fouree of the moll obstinate errors. A nun
in a passion is not the befl reafoner : and
why Aiould the democrats imagine that the
nation cannot reason, unless it raigi, or
that we are all iu a lethargy, because we are
not in a frenzy; yet who care? lefsfori776
than they, for they would JBeld indepen.
dence, now it is won, to Frariw; and.Walh
ington, John Adams, Jay, Hamilton, Kaix
Pickering, the Pinckneys, and the chftf
patriots of that day are their abhorrence. '
Timesof public cotivnlfion certainly pre
to the nitional character I .
aflu niartjrS f at preffLt
we have no occasion so." either. All the pas.
fions which it is the btifinefs of laws in quiet
times to rcftrain, then taking the sfccndaat
become the virtues of the day, and clamo
rous for indulgence. When m#n are taugbt
to hold their own live* cheap, and its plea
sures are fpiirried, as bringing difljononr m
their allnrements ; wljen the? ate in the
habit of spilling blood, as if theyfpilt water}
when thty taste the sweetness of revenge,
and enjoy the luxury of infli&ing dd their
foes a pain, and want, and wound*, that
they tbemfelves fuffer, arc they then and
then only, qualified to be republicans? At
well might a raging fever be called health,
or fanaticifm be confounded with the temper
of true devotion.
Nothing is so opposite to aoy principle ai
the extreme of that principle. Nothing ia
more contrary to republicanism, than de
mocracy. Indeed the latter is republican
ism out of its right miad. How many per
sons have nevertheleft extolled the French
revolution, precisely because it went.to ex
tremes. The Chronicle writers havt i a va
riably grounded their admiration of French
principles! on their being carried fu far, that
they could not answer, and have nevn an
swered the purpose. The word citiiun,
which Robespierre used, as much as any bo
dy, seemed to them a greater treasure, thaa
those principles, which have Rood the test
of experience, viz. the separation of the
Executive and Legislative powers; the di
vision of the Legifiature, and the indepen
dence of the judicial. It is certainly true
that the democrats are image worihippers ;
Papists in politics ; a liberty cap, a dry pole
called a liberty tree, and a harlequiD liag
command that homage, which thej__r.s£uj[«
to the laws" and the magistrates.
It is taken for granted that men of fen ft
will not aik for proof that a violent demo
cratic spirit would fiirely deftrey a real Re
publican system. If the people are gener
ally democrats, ft is a mockery to think or
maintaining long a genuinely Republican
constitution, for they would soon change
the letter and administration of it, into *
simple democracy. It is not supposed that
men of sense and reading will fiecd to be
told that such a change would be abomina
ble. Uncontrolled power, wherever it may
re-fide, is despotism. The passions of'tbe
majority; if uncheeked, would destroy the
rights and the lives of the minority. But
in democracies the majority only ftct* to go'
vern, for a faftion never fails to cngrofi
their power. . Perhaps no equal number of
men in f« ciety is governed by ft ft'w» as *
mob, which is a pretty fair fptc/mtn of de
mocratic government. a govern
ment leant ve»y mttch towards democracy,
what is to check it ? What but forec can
checkit? Plots afliiffiaations, and proscrip
tion as in France, and finally eivil war, ai
it will be there, become the efficient mcaai
of controul over the despotism, called liber
ty and equ^'T*; i
T'«rt uTJemoctaty,' whete the Vo ; '<f e WJ
'Vof the people rale iVfti'tutcd &u-.
t jiorititj—Of which in'deed.ii» we
Lkaiiw no examples—it is democracy where
a' rcprefentativfe body ia fovereigu,
"sufcd cvtn where there is a Senate and Honfe
a»d aiingle ?xfcutire, yet if the ccnftitu
?ipß is fooiiJered, or the citizens so tuibtt
, that the fpddeu pafiiom of the multi-|
tilde Jo fn fa"k overpower these threv bran
ches ttid diftatea their' proceedings, it is a
democracy and will end in revolution, con
vilfton, and probably tj.ruuny. The mob
®f Pan's has been nfed to govern the con
tention till of Tate the army has taken that
•harge off their hands. The mobs caUed
by the old governor, water melon frolicks,
in Boston, and other great towns were em
ployed to awe the Prefideftt, pb the oecafi
en of the Brltifh Treaty. Thanks to the 1
firis virtues of a Wa/hingt#n, and the plain
good sense ofwir country people, that pro
jeft failed. Otberwife ttur government
would have been a democracy in the hand of
a desperate fadian in the pay of France.
In order to democratise the executive, fo
reign influence was openly exerted in Penn
fylvfiniaon the latceleftion. An unknown 1
rabble marched to vote fur elefturi, with a 1
French flag flying. To democratise the 1
Uiflate, efforts were made to open their do'ors 1
to ;-daut fpeftators', v 4 ill* point wii ( Sr- 1
r.tJ. Vet that branch appears to be <
nocwithftanding, to do it. duty ; longmaf
it continue so. t
But the ever to be abominated Virginia 1
amendments prepofed for the federal confti
union, afford the moil signal instance of de
mocratick fcoftiKty to the ft*ate. Their
objeit was to fubvrrt our excellent govern- '
meot, undar tilt hypocritical pretence of a- ''
. 3icr4iagJt. So that the senate, instead of c
being, a? BOW, » rampart and defence about h
1 conftitutiott, would have become mere 1
loqls fpr faction to wotk with against it 3
V I! 10 that party to fecure'the ''
democratic governors, is worth 1
. a cartel retxofpea. Thank heave,, .from j
- ! ' P T}r ack to the north 0
ea.tt ward (Pennfylrania excepted) the states
hare purified their chief magistrates.
The horrid excefftE of the French, so l
bevmch.ng at the beginning of their revo
lution, have finally contributed to diilnfeft
crtjr. country from the contagion of demo
cracy.
But though ranch has been done, towards
reforming the errors of political opinions,
something remains to do. The declaratory
votcof the houfc of representatives, in ref
ped to the treaty power, remains still on,
their journals, a memorial of democratic u-
lurpiition upon the senate and executive.
The mifchiefs of that vote woutdfee in prac
tice beyond calculation. The reprefrnta
tives by exercising the' power of ftopp,W
of treaties, after they are rat
jfitd, w owld keep a market of corruption 11
at which foreign governments would be the
rival dealers. Let not the representatives
touch the executive power even with one »f
their fingers, as it w#uld corrupt. If thev '
CI Jti-Mfl att d woyldj .
i«j,- Uk~ niuu u*l ■ L.w* an J na, '
srcaties v " a
The proper corre&or of all the errors of m >
-opinion ; the solid support of oar free re- ma
■publican coriftitution against democratic in- fro
novatijn, is the sense and virtue of the en- a F
lightened part of the public— to them the fan
. -duty is confided to unveil to their lefj in
formed fellow citieens, the ahfurd fophif- tal '
try of that clamorous faftion in eongftfs
who heretofore obftrua«d all bnfinefs, but P c< "
4id.none ; who pretended to be the men of cve
ilie people, on ho other evidence, than their
eternal opposition to every measure of the
people's gov«rnmeiit ; who -called them- ! 0 '
leives patriots, becanfc they loved France ! !
bed, aad republicans, because they abhor- j *' -1
red our republican government. Analyse 1 .
iher hawngues t<> mob meetings, their j C y '
Jpeecbes and the refolutiou of clubi, they °
are grounded on these few plain maxims. j tra^
All power is liable to be abufc«L, and
therefore ought not to be delegated- r
The power of the people, undelegated WOl
(i- e > anarchy) is the state of fiature, of ! c ° r '.
liberty, of ptrfeaion. ;
But as this is not prgaicahle, the lead ( . )r ;
(hould be intrafted to the conftitu-
tsd authorities, in order that we may keep ; ?. n
i as near perfe&ion, astheftate of man will j lca '
atiow. . J
All that is gTven up by individuals (hould tion
be concentered in one reprefentativebranch, pro]
But as mixed or balanced governments or
were once admired by many now living, and to t
therefore Prefideirts, Senates and Judges leffe
(-the remains of prejudices, yet unconquer- tim<
edj are engrafted into our system, it is an my
tavariable democratic duty to nullify them rob'
in the praaiee and administration of the But
I) (lem, in order to bring things back to the ing
point, where all the oppofers of the confti- this
ttttion infilled in 1788 it (hould have ftopt. in
a lierefore, it is proper that the reprefen- It w
. tative branch fliould gradually note all pow- subs
er into their own hands. fyinj
I o that end, it is proper to vote all pow- coat
er out of the hands of heads of depart- Cart
aie r,i -s, and to adminjfter the executive go*- °f 'I
ei'nment by committees. twee
Here is a string of principles, that are conv
not iilufions of the brain, but the real', tho' raent
wfguifed doarines of the democrats, in tl
<ormer congresses. The present is bo doubt ing'i
immaculate— -what scope will not these as- ' D £ b
'Ord to a candidate who seeks the votes of ol,s d
toe wild Iriffimen, the bog trotting patri- . '
«? in the vyeft of Pcnnfylvania 1 They ; 'be £
"UgHi-he despised by the refpeaable plan- corns
j ?rs i ut l hey have done wonders when ad- you <
JftlTed to the gouging rabble of the south. j ther
i-vaa in New-England, almost alt the igrto,- ' n
ranee, and all the vice of society have adop- wor k
t«d them into their creed. henea
PLAIN TRUTH. aU d '
Taa Yc
Hyson and Young Hyibn Tea. I'° fer
A few chelh of excellent quaUty, For Sale, cor- f [ I"
n Old atii! Pin«!lreets. those
j6. > cots wom'lc
By
"S 3-
iftitu- On Saturday j af j . .
uihtt- o», by M- vr.o
multi- "-.r.e under confiderat' U! *t-r,
.scran- Afiembly ; . ion the house of
it is a " Resolved, a« n, .r r
con- ture,- that his excellent" u Le S'" l ' 1 i
mob r equested to wri; e to D 9° VCr " 0r be
: con- this state in the Con ' r 0 f
> that States, and reoueft "us ' ° the . United
called to obtain a repeal of th" «° " tslClr c^ orts
licks, , After ponfid ble tl u' P A& '"
i em- 'be previous A«eft,V, n C ent 10
ecafi- the m ain que £7" Waß ™- c d, » Shall
o the car n'ed m the PUt '" and " was
plain The questi on „ n .t,.' , .
pro- taken, and T-
mcnt —maj. 49 .
! d ° f >/A7 C „ ONT,CT,n^
c, so- Henry Hill tni"alX'
»enn- Arfoo, [These Were tfc *f Vlßce , Bt ' of
nowD fi f e to Mr. Bradt's (lore Cl <^ S W at
,-ith a w hieh caufcd the deWr' u S u^,a *.
e the third of our city] an d °" e
st«r- Severally Sentenced to imarif n ?
-
may *radt and T.me; Sh„t tfr 0 [rtnk-iS^l
tbe formir five and thr l a tfi
ginia £tl « state prff®,, it hard labour' ™ j
>nfti_ '
& T , . BOSTON, Jaß . 2l) .
is :
p s a . letters to the re-h ,1, * . y 'r b "? u & ht
ss ,
r •;
:z '"wu-s! ;
:ates ' _ c
LEXINGTON, Dee. «, 1
' f ° o?zr a ! lcft tbc h ' tch <* th 'M 11
eVO " L are favored wilt the fd 8
ifea '"tflhgence ' Ip
«T jJI J J" //"' body againjl the emdult of\ *
res - there comm ™*"g offuer\
on, ' * I "
• tt " 7 t m rr'/ Co '- H — ha <<°™\l
' VCi ElZui " J ?J° Py ° fthe h " er °f Mr - a
•ac. JSOertt has reaehed « t , thini it Qur
ita. >J> 0 pubttfb it i and at 9 future day when I,
VL X""Z * w & *#!. ■' -
z **■ m ** 5
ves ri
of Natchez, oSober t >j ) 1797.
ley "'*»
lit « Uttrr m£ yours direfted ♦' to whom I 3C
a number of ungenerous reflsdfons upon I
° { V" CoDntl T' a»d asserted _
**-. with a confidence and ef
ront'rr * hic h could only be .attempted by
, n _ 4 person long hackuc-yed jtf the paths of in- (
he famy
n- X® u av f» r > been.' treated with hofpi- I
if. tahty, politenels, and attention by me - w
rfs your return has been such as might be CX- I c
ut pcacd from a person loft to the feelings of [
of every quality amiable in the human heart.
; j r our age, so f a r as it proteas you from a "
hg that chaft.fement your eondua entitle vou ttl
n- ;I°> tends to render you most contemptiblr
cc ; >n the eyes of the honest and discerning.l „ .
r- ! ambrtion, and the gratification r"
fe ! of a malicious cankered mind, uncontroul-l
:ir j h J ol, e fohtary virtue, that the diftVia ™
•_j 01 Natchez is indebted for its present dif- 1
1 unhappy and crfliVal situation, I . lr ci
id ' , _ di %reeable fen fat ions in thus ad- IV 1
j drefling you, when I recoil that your
f{ j worihy brother was for years my friend and I t
1 companion. His fine understanding and I m
social virtues, added to a true sense of hon- r
ft " r ; was the delight and admiration of his I
u _ friends. I (hall drop a tear to his memory, I j
| and for his fake alone, treat, you with a de- I ce .
•j. licacy unusual on. similar occasions.
1 j I corr
j Before I'arrived at this place I was can- 1
Id tioned to fufpeft' yOu, and the plan you I toe
1. proposed to aie last April, to take govern- j pan
ts or Gayofo by surprise, and convey him in-1 ver
id to the Chickafaw nation, .did not tend* to j 1
:s lefferi my suspicions. This proposition some los t
r- time since I thought my duty to trasfmit to | Go'
n. my fnperiors, and which hqs been fihce cor- | e^tii
ti roborated by the testimony of capt, Pope, to C
ie But the generous aid you give me in quiet- the
ie ing the diftnrbaflces which took place in Aft
i- this diftria during the mofith of June last, rose
t. in forae degree prejudiced me in your favor, tion
i_ It was a prejudice of (hort duration—Your a'nd
r. subsequent condua in condemning and villi
fying Mr. Benoift, for not ri/l<ing another
r. commotion rather than fuffer the Baron de
Carondelet to enter an exception to a part.
r. of the fourth proposition of agreement be- nnm
tween governor Gayofo and the people, pray
e convinced me that confufion was your ele- of I
ment ; and that a social and correa order refer
n of things, was as difagreeabfe to your feel- 1 M
t ings, as-the happiness of our firft parents her r
. in the garden of Eden, was to the infidi- that
sous destroyer of mankind. From a violent placi
. and bitter declaimer against the terrprs of M
f the Spaniffi government you have now be- a "i
. : come an admirer of\its lenity. Judas like, coun
. you earry two faces, and unfortunately, nei- clare
1 ther of them marked with the lineaments and 1
.I of integrity. To effea ycur purposes, you M
. work in dark hidden paths, like the mole fundi
beneath the l'urfactf, and crab like, move in »
all direaidns. ■ Beav
Your memorial to congress is calculated way
|to serve the Spanish government, and grati- read
fy your private revenge and animosity !To M
those leading traits of your charafler you charj
would facrificc your country, and I was go- ""hie
••"ff fudail,l- e
I" your memo-? ,1 t ' tr *7 yow <avio'ir.
" £ XShaj L " m "Z ref W hys*h>t
Sp«nirh s ,„„„ min ~ ; '» «f ««%• ll.c
pc,o.,r„„
°* uU " rn rJ » roan alon * i* faffieitnf
i/i me of tl>e PYf P ,.m * . n:nr convince
** SJiSESif
•T tue. What j' n ' |jrrt "'' n futh a«<j V»ft
"acquainted, an<f with' , t V '^ rt b '
nut now h™ • •
S j'. congress To * - P " V ' of atfrdEug ,
*wy Of «i.c/w ho 4 re l '\ U r M 5 yct
th „ «d,Have throiigb yo B , i
*S££2* .«■*' 284-:
■ of Jhall never Jfc u£y7Zy°L J
» fat thcrc ." e f»me who have fc, rn ia S £ '
-lat, K^C^>rtoyo U ,ow Uj L d^i 7 e t
IT '
,; ry ; i
ty I have forwarded a copy of it to th* U. n
ored !!„ 6 tates > and-fhaf] forward
lg -ht t to Gavofo. J
not ££ {t -t,,„ly i«) tb,t you have di
cap. , d W* to pay no attention to ano- a
rnm tainlv K n "r r ° m thls ccratltr y> asitmuft cer- p
:eu ' dcodV ft'*** 3nd not the » ft « f v
VCr; '* * *' cce oi ~ «W most r,
liral arrogance 1 have e« r met with
:ade ~^ Caufc onf P*« of U>e comajunfty do not a
of P ;° P ; r f ° f ™ d y°" r oherent jumble it
Of nonsense yo„, for that reason, r,
| prefuuie to .deprive them of the benefit of
fift Pr a i" g TK- e!r r° Wn • to con- f«
s ol I nri : 1 c f,r ' w,t} > due deference to your
'' Plc .' democracy, bears lh« molt al
WW fffej marks of thc tyrant I ever saw p
riti If X , lb,U d upon any oecafiott; and could on
,j in y have entered the imagination 0 f aperfon £c
>U V with the «„ft ordinarr tr
* °f\ V ° rt y* r ' o:
Tmr Y ° u al ready the 9 f >fwo mo . w
narchs, and now you want to compleat the q
' ome led a CCOm ' a C '' U2en of the Un;t "
\f r j
J and, if possible carry that bUody garment M
°f she Araericans d<
|at the Cliffs as a proof of yoor exertion. «<
| ln f 8701 ; of i'bcrt }> _Tleflea on your a «, T
An- !k , ® ake J n . a PP eal to eoiiikfnte, and aflc t*
that inward invisible at this pe
riod of your life the gratification of your te
pafiion for.rercnge, be not highlj criminal, tr
Here I (hall leave you to y«tir T rfle<aions, .b]
J 3
ed
by I P£^^STLF ANIA LEGISLATURE. ~
HoU»E nf REPRESEsjrjCTH'I s. ~
pi- HT •
i'i presented a petition from
x I William Weft, praying that the unfofd
of of th <; «nfifcated eitate v f Will,sm Rankin, Tl
may be given to his heir* v.l,i t h was r«d
* J and referred.
2,, Mr - . Hiltz r h^; nfr reported." in favour of Get
the petition of Mnkgan and
I Mr. Gurpey reported a bill to prevent the
K- unfair praftice. in packing beef and pork cy
for exportation, & c . which was read and Oat
I made the order of the Jay Saturday of
if- I nC *V T7 fiti<
Mr. Frailey reported a hill w rc peal rhe out
aft for authorizing the railing of 60,0c0 its.
dollars by way of lottery, to crest a bridfce teer
■ over the river Schuylkill near Reading, and Chi
Jto enable the commiflioners to refu.id the and
monies which have arisen e» a f a ] e of a part Jon
* of the tickets, which was read and made aril
,s the order of the day for Tucfday week. cab,
r J Mr. W. Maclay reported a bill of expen- bun
*' c « [or trying the contested eteaiou for Ly- valu
earning county. gta,
i- The amendments of the Senate to the bill
uI to enable the goverlior to incorporate a com- ter ;
i- pany for improving the navigation of the ri- jest
i- ver Lehigh, was read. ton,
o The house refolded itfelfifito a committee V
e of the whole on the bill to antliorize the com
o Governor to incorporated company for er and
■- | e#ing an artificial road oft (J»e road leadiug fati«
to Germahjown to the ftone or, the i
l» the Reading road ( Dr. PrelWin the chair. 1
n After confideraMc debate the committee gref:
, rose and the chairman reported the firfl fee- tnun
tion a» agreed to, and the committee alked tion
r and obtained lcav? to fit agaTn on .Tuesday. as tc
i- Adjourned. ablir
r try t
e " January 29. zgrre
t. Mr. Fmdley presented a petition from a ers a
nnmber of the citizer.s of Franklin county, the ]
, praying the aid of the legislature in favour limit
. of Dickiufon College which was read and whic
r referred.
. I Mr. Kelly presented petitions from a hum- Unit
j ,ber of the citizens of York county, praying sth!
. that a division of that county may not take
t place, which was read and referred.
F Mr. Eyerly presented a petition figncd by T1
a number of the citizens of Northampton accoi
county, praying<.L,izSrd's creek may be de- thee
clared a public highway, which was read ded
and referred. denei
Mr. Wallace presented a petition from solve
sundry citizens of Allegheny ceifcityyfray- Mr.
ing a new county he -laid out to be called Spea
Beaver county, and that (he feat of justice
way be fixed at Beaver town, which was /» }
read and referred.
Mr. Evans reported a fptcification of It
charges againit Henry Shcemakcr, Esq. Verrr
which were read. l.yoi
k- ■ ' T\ ; - ,
°. ' r " T he *^ to,! of the Senate lo the hill
so* mcorpora'i ig a enmpany to improve the
the £1 vigktfon «f tw river Lehcigk, were
roy a iec'mcl time atid agreed to.
Tlic U«f c again r«fo|»ed ftfclf into a
ince com-mtw* of the whole <<u thebH! to iyth,>-
•»<!. rite fh- gove,n.«- ta incorporate a < ,mpany !
Itn- l-rere rr* artificial r.,ud from ti.e city |
viN through Grj.msiitown to the twelve mile
*ich u*Mie on the R<*a&Dg road, Mr. Kelly in the 1
c,,B ' r , J
yve ons of the bill the committee rose, repoft d j
proghrk al ,d afV to fit again for to- ,
'•re (Bcrro n.
' The clerk of the Senate pref;i.t«d. for
J CQijcarrence a t*il to'rtife county rates and f
•or, l«rviej. which was read.
' et --
irs- " ~ ■ J
T-l ~..
Bur Jatjuuy jo
ex- Mr. Hoge presented the petition from, a '
1 Of onmder ofthe WHmiiigtcn eouo
rdl.:. .'y'.praymga new eleven dittrid and that.
on, the place of nicy be fixed at
hr, nonfljurg, which, wns read and referred. jc
y . . n Hiltzheimer reported again ft the pe
are lition of John Motris late- furg-oa in Col.
telt A rmand's regiment. • , ' •
,(,r " vr . T^ e am «dmen»r. of the Senate to the
ay, Northern Liberty Con ft able bill, were read
uld a second time and afreed to. S f
ur- The- hrufe refolTed ftfelf into a eommirtee
h- of the whale on .the bill turnpike the P
.Tlh Vj-ermautown roa'l, tir. Pawfttain the chair,
th- the committee rote afur alengi'hW 'd,hate,
iu- reported progref* and afl:ed leave to fit a-
U- gam, which was granted for to-morrow. •;
lr Adjoprned.
la '» Janaay 31.
di- Mr. M'Pherfon presented a petition from
no- a number of the citizens of York Countv,
er-' prayisg a division of the county, which
<i Wa j rCad a " d referred to the committee al
oft ready appointed on the fame fubjefl.
ith Mr. Harris presented a petition'from a
101 number of citizen, of Mifflin county, pray
ble mgja division of that County, which was S ,
jd, read and referred.
of Mr. Hoge reported against the petition
>n- the town of Walhington.
iui- 1 lie bill to make compenfatfo'n to Alex
in- ander M'Dowell was read a third time and '
i w paflea.'
c clerk of the Senate returned the hill
on lor the, ofa house for the employ. E<
"* Ae P°o'' in the county
• . whlch t)ie Senate had passed ci
o- with sundry amendments tc which they re
he quested the coacurrence fcf the house. frl
it- The bill providing for the expence of the
■e, trials of the conteiled eleftions of Montgo
nt mery and Lycoming were read, considerable «i
lis debate arose on the legality of making the ai
ns counties pay the expence of the Clerk
r, The houfc finally determined that the conn-' f*
flc tics fhoukl pa j such expencc.
e- The house refoived itfelf into a commit- lot
iir tee of the whole on a bill to authorize the f h <
l> ,trustee« of Lower Dublin Accademy to raise
*- ) y fi ra l i L °, UC ,7 thf f " m of 5-400 dollars ™
the building, of the said academy, fe
D.. Pteiton tn the cha|r, which was agreed No
. r " Adjoutned. Ml
Br
PHILADE LPH IA , Sd
n MONDAY EVSMi.ua, FEZZVAZr
't lIIIMI .
1, The following message from the President i ~
d of the IJnited States, w as this day rta d
in the House pt Representatives.
i (jentUmcn of the Senate, and
■ Gentlemen of tie- House of Reparatives,
' , ri aV L re o e ' 7? , d 3 kUf ' from h, ' s cxcel'cn-j Wil
I ft«t f s Z C n Wy , tfq ' B orcrnQr the I
of O/f V ar .° I" 3 ' datcd I .
* t .°T/ 7 97> indofinga number of depo
fiUotis of witnefles to- several captures and CW
outrages conjtr.i tted within and near the Km- 0
) its of the United States by a French priva- Mr
j teer belonging to Cape Francois or Monte Wa,
Chnfto, called the Vertitudeor Fortitude, land
and commanded byaperfon of the name ot
Jordonor Jourdain, a „d .particularly upon «) i
an Enghlh merchant rtu'p, named the Ara- V "' r
cabefla, which he firft plundered, and then
buroed with the reft of the cargo of great S
Talue, within the territory of the United the-v
States, 10 tfieliarbour of Charlelton, «, the Fran
17th day of 0&. last, copies of which let- *
ter and depositions relative to the fame sub- l *> * V
jedt received from the eolledor e f Charles- J
ton, are herewith communicated.
Whenever the channels of diplomatical " *
communication Vtween the United StHtes M
and France shall be, opened, I (hall demand and
't' l . , for the " lf "lt and reparation for i;,rg
the injury. a( a
1 have transmitted tb«£. papers to con- (lrc '' l
grefs, not so miK'h for thepurpofe of com- La<Hl
municating an account of so daring a viola
non;of the territory of the U.iited States, S£
as t° shew, the propriety and neielßty of en - Aead
abling the executive authority of the coun- Mi
try to take measure forproteding the citr- t0
zfrrs of the United States, and fnbh foreign- f u^fci
ers as have a right to enjoy their peace and r M ,'
the proteflion of their laws within their r v
limits, in that as well as some other harbor*
which are equally exp /cd.
TT •a - JOHN ADAMS. 1 1
United States, 1
Jth Feb. '9B. f and c !
y j two (i
deep.
LY£>N, ' an/a
The house of representatives th,« day Stab,e
according to order, took up the report of rl
the committee of privileges ; It was deci- i, h i K l
ded by a very great majority to hear evi- back 1
dense in the cafe. The house having re- ftand
folved itfelf into a committee of the w-'hole, an . d f,i
Mr. Dent j« the chair, Mr. Dayton (the Tk.
Speaker) proceeded to give hi# evidence. ably h
■ IM bcauti
>• For the Gazette of States. The
MR. FESINO, purch«
It ought to be krown for the honor of "1"
VermQßt, and the United States, that Mi. j M 9'
l.yon, the member of congrefe, of spitting I F e^»
le Sill memory, it not » ritiVe Ameri.-ao, l»#t . a
>e the foaportetl pat hi it—He ft ? borh in IreL; A
re*d and fft!d in the IKitecf States. tor l.is pis-
C<ge bitaec—But huid. A" 1 T not Too fa ft ?
nto a C*»uld the dishonor to a country, of having
Mlho- gjrf n birth to such 2 being, add to the ci.'l*
P9py grace of bavtfg elected hini their rrprei'en
c'ff 'ttffaf ?
ra '' e However,. Feiltja, I wjih you wou'd
™ I,ie Jet the (id be knov n ; sad 1 hope iu jul
l'^'l' lice.to tfir national of the United
>Ad States, tha#.all printers, both in America
to- a,,<■} elfewhrrei into whole papers the fiithf
tranfalSion of tba-'laft week found itswwasy f
: ■ for ' w-jjl B |f o ; n t>icir papers give a place to the
1 ar.d fortgoi»£ (htemcnt-
An, adm 'irir of tbt true \Avttdtan CiaroSef
a- Feb. 5,.'98.
I»V«| ■liyiynar
Kna C-JZE T:l iMJRIME LIS 7.
;g; FORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLSAREp.
Ship Cleopatra, Wella, for Canton
■P* Edward, WirkhAlh, Ainftrrdam
r* Harmony, Wrthngton, Kingston, Jam.
~ t C'->!iimb«, Rockwell* Hambuni
th « • Ann ft Marr, BilMs, Bordeaux
faQ exantjc? Hamilten, Potts, Martinlco
Liberty, ,Earcage, Charleston '
Sally, Butler, ChiMm, Sarafmah
jpo Brig Snfannali, Medlin, AmSt-dam
- George \V-alhington, DeVereaux,
"<< on
El>znbcth, Fuilei tori, Ten -, it
'• Abigail, Eabcoek, flelfaft
Polly, Harris, Goraires
George, Howkmf. ii-a
Fryal, IVbot, 1 rin idad in Cuba
ram Governor Brooke, vVncciap, Hava.ina
American, Burke, Laguira & Curacoa
"t Gallagher, Jeremie.
St. Laguira, Taftg er and
Genoa, via New- ork
nr . w ® aker ' *■ Thomas
0 Maru, Skerer, Charleston
was Schr. Experiment, Maxwell, Sr. proix
Triton," Thornton, Gonaives
0n ; Prtfident, Stites, Port-au.P.ince
Lx- Lm,cI X; .Burrows, Surinam
aod *¥f'(ml.) n>». t .
A,,iy*l, ,t f,„ p,„,j;„ c , , ur i ai
hill _ w *«y »f Philadelphia, litae*
1 Edwards, from fogar, f ffee, and col
' COQ. -
•»)' B.ow Maria of Vhiladeiphis, Jof.pl, BJoy, fro «
Hta Copenhagen,, jion and htinp. *•
re- Bli 2 Bride of Philadelphia, CharltJ -Qanderill,
.fr«p.Rot.-tr<f s im,7giH, &c. i. : .. L .
the ,"Pt- Han-.mofl, from Wilmmg.
too, N. 0. naval floras.
??* „. A . ch#on f> na " e "ntnow,,- pll Appaquini
ible *inkflat«, said to he commanded 'byeapr. Bcnii
the . m,n Wiifo*. temsrks irom her crew—ln lat. 36.
' t Sephyrcs, from
Üb- ! b ° un <l to New-York, conflgncd «r ' om .
f»rd SanJ» and Willir.m .I'raig, the capta
r tme is S»res, and all his « r ew ; vessel a
lit- loft. Further remarks from fald.fchaoi - »
the J lle lßth Dec -'»7. took out of the ,[ .
,Jk ™> three m«n, part o( the crew of the ft 2
f crc,: . of Oi'«nada, Grorpc Hirrcy, maflc
for B<j«qn, foandered a; sea. I .at. ji,
ny, fpokctht fleop tlombler, George ga/)k
-cd days,am, naproViio .
. Maeh it. in tl>e V m
4DDITr „ h r e-w~r*ri, Ftlrua
. KfTHSLy,
- Schr. Daphne, Howard, Hav.
Enterprise, Horton, Malaga 120
—£^H!!!fi!_i E , u<:kl y, St - Vincente
11 NEVV-THKATRii.
(BY nssfK P )
THIS EVENING,
' fkbruarv 5.
I Wi " be V Play, (wrictefi
j by, kcfpeire), called
' TH£ FIXtT TAtr of
J ~!. Hen*/ IV.
0r > th * Hum ™rs of Sir y,hn Faljiaf.
a- ; Prince of Wales,
e U'' r ' nvS -^ ol>n of I>"icafttr, Mr T.
C , ; n W f' Ct ** r ' Mr FoX; N,rth„mfcer
'l hi, y ' Hol, '^ r > Mr (being
, t h . ti r ft appe, rjnoe m that in Ameri
" V ' n'J ' Mr M3rfhjll : Sir Richard
'* y' or . i Wtftmrreland, Mr War
n r Blunr - Mr •Warrtll.jun $ r
John FatftjfF, Mr V- m rj
• *" brf •" H,r *
To wfcieh «ill be x. 'de.l.a f.. ■ ai;.
' Animal MzjTietiiai.
1 h~a 11. r
i „ * 'I; Fran , C , is fcholart,
3 apd !je public m general, that hi. fourth praft!
l.mg Hall yill be 1 hoifday eVeninjj the «th inft.
ET r^ y Roo,n ' Sollth Fo-jnh
- ? TC "' «>«ween Chufnut and Wal m „ flretft
. Ladies titkels to be had bv appl v ! 0 , to i„
Nerrh Eighth flreet Gentlemen', ticket one
• < Oilar each, t Q he had ,f Al r . J ranri , « th l
- Aeademy, or «t his hnufr. ' '
Mr. Frar.tis liJtcwife-Inform, the SubftriWa
" r°Kf ' f' f<a B - a r" S ' lhat4he la »of the prefect
• m7T"^- OBTutrdi y ,het 3th
1 usual " nC " C ° ntmUeS to ,lke «•
' T ' h -*' A t
For Sale! "
and ccumy ft conCttsof a well timihe.l
two Cory (lane houfc, 43 feet front, hy abotu *0
deep, four room, on a floor, with ciiled gar-.tf
and a cellar under the whole Ave v conli n '
. Stable and Coach houft— -And a |, tr ,(r "f
;hi Z A d ' 0n th ' Main f■ fiti-asioa
• rery handsome; rhe lot «.end» to a
ftlnd Th 7 the ft?ble and house
J 1 Thc . lot " m a high state .f cuifiratioß
wh iT C "' n yard 1 pu,R P ®f«eeUeni water'
whici has, atjio tune, bfimx known fail
h? fuuauou of the tov/n iii.iwh, and r mari
—» ~sk *£mi
The term, of payrren will made to fa- the
purchcfer. /The,, and the price. w,,l be f t „W,
up. n application to Mr .,n Sk th at Z
149, SouthThird-ftr t , PMUd :„hia rr t ',
ROBERT FRAZEF.. '
F mwftrPROPOSALS
r o K
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of Febcijary next inclusive.
PENNSTLVASIA,
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf
tie, Cantwill's Duck r«<*, Dover, Fred
«nca, Milfurd, Cloujbs, TitglboroVjjh, Trap,
inowhill, Horntnwn aid Accoioac eouit house to
Northampton court house- throe times a weeW.
Afril 11, t/rnmhr IJ. Leave; Philadelphia ev
erj Vuefdiy, Thursday and Satur<Hy at » a M,and
arrrivc at Northamptoa conrt hotffe o« Thafday,
Saturday and Mnnday at 7if M. Krturni,l/. Leave
Northampton court hbufe every Friday, Monday
and Wadncfday at » a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, WedntfJay and Friday by? I-t
Uncmtir 15 to Afril I. Leave Philadelphia «v
---ery furfd.-y, Thartday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday aad Wednesday by 7 * Ritunung—
Leave Northampton court honfc every Baturday,
Tu'fday aud Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at '
Philadelphia on Wedftefday, Eliday and Monday
by 7 PM.
.VIRGINIA.
1. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
three times a week. ( -
Afril r u NntmUr Ij. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 PM, and arrive at Norfolk iu *4hours.
Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- j
day a 4 * u, *ndarrive at Northnmp- (
ton conrt house in twanty sous hours.
Novtnitr IS fc April I. Leave Northampton
court house evaryTuefday, Thursday and Saturday
at 3 a M, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours,
turxin,—Laave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdaef- j
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrivs at Northamp
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA £s" MARYLAND- '
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N-w
---port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge
town erofs roads to Chefterftownjhreetiniesa weak, i
Mty Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
ffsnday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m, and ar
rive at Cheftertown the next days by 8p M. R'-
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- ;
nefday and Friday by 9 e u, and arrive at Phila- j
delphia the next days by 8 t u.
November I tt May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- |
r'y Monday and FriOay by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by<r«,
. 'Returning—Leave Cheffartown dvery Mohday and
Friday byß am, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 P m .
MART LAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Cantervillo, £aflon,
Newmarket, Vienna, Saliftury, Pnowhili and Prin
ccft -inn to Sa'.ilbury once a week.
Rec.iyethe qiiil at Cheftertown evety Wednes
day at 7 a M.TkrriVe at Eafton by 4r m. Le»v«
- Ration ona'huriday 'by 6 a m, arrive at Sr.owhill
on FridnyHiy Ip. and at Pnncels An«- by 6r.
M. Return ',™— LeavePriccefi Ann on Saturday by
10 Am , arrive at Eaflon the next or Monday
.by( f » Leave feafton on Tu-lday by 8 am,and
arrive «t Cfifflertown Lome day by 4.P m.
. From Hai'iord 'by BeJ»Air w the horf
onc« a week. *
Leave.Hii-foc.l every Tu«fday by 10 a m, and
*rrivj ar Black borfe by »"■ Returning—Leave
C. ifkbo fa on by 6a m, and arriveat
Ha/ford ni.xt l ucfday by 9a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARi'L AND and VIR
GINIA.
6. Fr6m Baltimore ty Blackhorfe to Yorktown
Pa. once a week.
Lfii ve Baltin-ore every Friday by 4 rm, arrive
at £lucl;horfe 011 Saturday by to' a «, anJorrivc
(H/Yorittowij by -tt -ma. X'.-'----— Y
towa every Thttffday by 71a m, »od nmve at fial
tlmore on FrhJay aooa.
J Fkw Yorktown by Hanover, Ptterfburg,
Jar.eftio .irlil Frederitktowa to Leofcutg oace a,
lieave Yocktown e,very Monday atS a m,arrive
at iredeHcktownon 1 Tu-fday by fr m, andarrive
atLeelbuixon Wedsrfdaybyirn. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Fridiy at noon, ana arrive
at Yorktown fey 6 f m on Sunday.
8. From Yoiktowu by Abbotftawn, Gettilburg,
Fairfield, .Eliiibethtown, WiHiamfport, Martint
burg, Winchester, Stevenlburg and Strafburg to
Woodftockonce a week.
Leave Yorkto«4i every Sunday by soon, arrive
at Martlnfburg en Tuesday by tt am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning— Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
*" . tiliCourg on Fiiday by 11 am, and arrive at York
town on by It f m.
9. From pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Walhing
ton. Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fifiiirgcreekoliee a week for one year
only.)
Leave Fittfburg every Friday at 9 AM, and ar
rive at Filhing creek on Sunday at 9a m Rckirn
ing— Leave Filhing creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittlburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Wamington by Brownsville andUnioo
to Mergantown once a week.
Leave Utnon every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Wa&lngton by 6e m. Leave Wafhinjton on
Saturday at 6 A m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 P M.
) tl. From Baltimore by Frcdericktown, Eliza
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Cbamberfburg to Ship
penfturg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, at Eli
aabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfcurg
ou Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippeuf
burg every Tuesday at 9 am, arriveat Elizabeth
town at 8 P m , at Frcdericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 m.
MARYLAND.
XI. Frotn EliiabctfitoWh by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a wock.
LeaveCnmber land every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Eliaabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning —Leave Eliaabethtown every Monday by
10 a M, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
0 PM.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a.week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and
arrive at Annapolis by Jp m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by j f*.
14. From Baltimore by Queen Anns
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobacco, 1-
lensfreth, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
ooce * week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
K Annapolis at 5r *. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborongh
by noon.arrive atPifcataway by 6 f M. & arriveat
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 9 o'clock.
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
r m, arrive *t Pifcatawav on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, and arrive at Annapolia by 6p m. Leave
Annas <>li' on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive it
Baltimore by 3 p «■
15 From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert conrt honfe to St. Leon
ards ooce a week.
Leave Aunapoli« every Satu-day at 9a m, and
afrive at St. Leonards on Monday by p m Jtt
turmng Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
r u and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 A u
16. From Bladenfturg by Upper Marlborough,
h Not injfhim, Lower Marlborough,
ncdid. atid Charlottehali to Chaptico once a week.
Leave Bladcnlburg every Saturday at 9 a m,ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by nooo and at Lower
Mailboroughon Monday by 5.P m, & at Chaptico
S by 6r m. Returning—Le-avet hajirieoeveryTharr
<lay at 6 a h, and arrive at Bladeiifburg on Satur
day at 6 a m.
1 17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
koufc to Fredericktownoncaa week.
L«fe Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktowo by 6 p"■ Rf'unaiiif
Leave Faedericktown every Thursday by J'* m,'
" and arrive it Georgetown by 6 pm.
- . VIRGINIA,
• ' il. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-3 hau court h<*ufe, Staunton, Lexington and Pincaf
tk to BigLisk once a week.
Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 A m . ar-
rive at Staunton on Friday at IP m. Leave Staun
' ton every Friday at 2 pm, arrive at Big Lick on
' Sunday by II am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
' on Suuday by Ir u, arrive at Staunton every l"uef
" doyby iiam.' Lcav« Stauntom by l» o'clock
1 )noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by
J P M. 1
19. From Big Lick by «ourt home
» and Wythe court hoyfe to Abingdon once a week.
• Leave Big Lick every Sunday at 1r m, arrive
• at Wythe court houfs on Tuesday by 1 pm, and at
> Abingdon on Wednesday by 6r m. Returning—
-1 Leave .Abing4»n every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
' at Wythe court house on Friday by » pm, and ar
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by II A •».
TENNESSEE.
' to. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborojijh
Greenville, Moffat's store and Jeffcrfon court houle
1 to JCnOtville once a wick.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, sr
• 1 rive at Moffats store 00 Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
' ! Moffats by 9 a m, and arrive atKuoxville en SUn
' , day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve-
I ry Suuday by » P M, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3 PM. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4 PM,
' and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7P M.
VIRGINIA.
' I »u Fro» Winchester by Romney to Moorfields
' once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m, and
' arrive at Moorfield "U i/rictoy by 6 PM< Return
ing—Lehve Moorfield every Saturday-at 8 a 41, and
! arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM.
1 11. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdllown to Martinfbnrg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martiniburg on Friday by 10 a m.
1 Roturning— Leave Martinfburj every Friday by
' noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 am.
| 13. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
: tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Glojiceiftcr court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Fredericklburg every V«'«dnrfday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at I
Yorktown on Saturday by iiam. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at-Frcderickfluirg on I'uefday by 5 PM.
14. Fro n Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Weftrttorel»nd court house, KinfaU, Farn
harvi church and Northumberland court ho'ufe to
Lancaster court house once a week'
t«ave Tappahannock eyery Thursday nooo and
arritc «t Lancaster lutuf- on Saturday by 11
am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court house ay
ci'y Saturday by 1 P M, and arrive at Tappahan
no«k on Monday by 11 a m.
%$. From Fredericklburg by Culpeper court
house 4cprangec. h. to Charlottefvilleonce a week.
Laave Fredericklburg every Tuesday at 10 jMi
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by it a
a>. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Satiwday
it:B'PM, at -Fredericklburg <jn Tnef
day by 6 a m.
16. Erom Richmond 'l>y Gooehlaod court
house Columbia »nd Charlottefville to-SlanntoiJ
cn> v e a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at IP M.ar-i
rive at Charfotfefvilfe on Tiiui&ay IyL-LLJLMU
-7 Ciurlotttiville bv noon and arrive at
Sainton «u Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton o« Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
1 eiiarl»ttefvil!S by 7 PM, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
17. Fi »m Staunton by Bath court-hqufe and
Sweet-Springs to Greenbrier once a
week.
Leave Stiunton ever) Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-houl'e on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier eourt
houfe every Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
, Staunton on Thursday by 8 f M.
18. From Charlottefvile by Warren* War
minfter, New-Market, Amhetft court house,
: Cabellflburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
■ a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 P
- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
■ p M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
f 19. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often at they Stall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Toddi at 3 r M, and at Tappahannock
' on Thursday at 11 AM. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at I 9 M, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 PM.
jo. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
| tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
. London, once a week.
Le«ve Richmond ev?ry Tuesday at 8 a m,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 p
m, and arrive at Lynchburg tin Friday at 8 am,
and at Ne.w-tondon by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 1 P M, ar
• rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
; Edward on Saturday by 7 PM, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at J p M,
and grrivp at Fififftlr nn hy 6 P M..
" Rtturning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
3*». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
' Lfive Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
' M, and arrive at MartinviHe on Sunday by 6 P
m. Leave M.rtinvilk on Monday by 6 AM,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 P M.
e 33. From Prince Edward court house by
lt Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
q> Leave PrinceEdwaHconrthoufeeveryThurf
[. day at 6 AM, and arrive at Halifax court house
D on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
j ifax court house on Friday by i P M, and ar
■e 1 tive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
1- I by 6 P tjl.
h | riRGIWA anJNORTH-CAROLINA.
it ! 34. From Hjlitax court-houTe by Halifsx old town,
j Carters, Martiuville, Patrick court-house, Upp«r Sau-
ra, Germantnwn aud Bethsnia to Salem once in two
„ weeki.
j Leave Halifax court-honfe every other Friday at
c j, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6,
t PM. Returning LeaveSa era every other Tuefdc.y
at 6. A M, and ajrive at Halitaxcourt-houfe on Fri
dtvby 10. A M
J 35- From Harrh'iby Hickes'sford to Halifaxtwke
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednefdav ant) Saturday by
5, A M. ind arriveat Halifax by 6, P M. Return
" ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sur.day by 6,
• AM, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
r VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield fev Southampton court-house
. to H ckes's fotd once a week.
ter.-e htA cvrv, t'isr FtW,, Hy « ,? M.
and hWv at
Rrtur«i«i{—!.«»»eS<n«nfc'.-'i trr y oi.-r Monday »V <>
t, 4 -Vf, id arrive i H:cts'» '" J <M '•>
», P.'-I " • "
v . FromGnHfoni!>vG'-ffb^d r ,St. a
and Ln-icnWf «oart-rtoofcQ"« td ' "
miiodi store '» G*»idi!*4»'s ftc- a week. 1 ,
Le«veG';idfo'i"«e»er'v vVeirwfiJv at 10, * M, ana ,
irstura <»ca*mli«>i*rd»y bv *, P *<". at Ci ''" *
Pott-OAce « hoar* afterdc+ivcry ol the flfc' *S /
riKGttHA d NOiTH-fJ '.ROZIJrn »
from Strffoltcfcy edcnt«n, Plymouth »
tr> SkwSern, onc> wtrt Leave S ' J ,
every Monday at noon, strive at li icr.ton 0.1 1 uei- „
da. at i> P Mi *' Piymwrh "" W-dnrM.y by D, ,
A M, at Wa!htn*t»n by 6: P M, a3d at
ThurM*yhv 5, pM. Rcii»!«i».{— L.are Ncwb«™ (
evr-v Friday by 6, A M, arrive at WalHmg'.on by
t,*P M. Arrive »t Plym- nth o i Saturday by 4 f
p' Vj, at Edfntonon Sttnday by g, A M, and ai bur- ,
folk on Monday by 9- AM. ,
NORrH-CsIROLIXA■ v
« Fremtdentorhy Hmford. Nixomoa, t.«-
city, a"d Joneftu g 10 * Indian-town, once a
Leawfcdyuton every Wedntfday bv 1, P M, a"d j f
arrive at 1.-.j!ia«-ii»*n on Thu-fd»v b» 6, f M. K-r- |
burning—li»vf Indiamow-n every Tueidayoy 5, AM,
and arrive al on V/edn<-'fday at il, A Pm.
4a. From Halifax bv Nort'.ianspton c urt-hoyle,
Princeton, Murtrecfborougb, WtntflU Kid Winalor
to £de •ton, once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at q, A M, and arn ve
at Eden to® ©n Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
taoon Wednesday bv 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax (
on Saturday by. A M
41. FiomHalifax by ScoMand, Hogton, Wilhaml
tsn and I 1/mooth, once a week.
HaUf-x every Monday at io,. A M, and arrive at Ply
mooth on Wedn;fday bv 10, A M. Returning !
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, PM, and ar- ,
ritfe at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
4a. FWrrß'HfiHfax by Tfliboro' and Greenville to
Waft \ngpr. a week-
Leave Halifax every Monday a» !•, A M, aud ar- (
rive at Wartiington on Wednesday by 10 A M- Re
currting—Leave WaChington every VV T ednefday at 2,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
4,3. From Halifax by Warrenton, Wiitiamfboroug-h,
Qxiord, Hillfboroagh, Martinville, Sa'cm, Lexing
ton, Salifbwry aod Statefville to Charlotte and trom
Charlottehy Cabarras court-house fro Salitbury, and
from tkeoce by the farae route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday atg< A M, arrive at
Warremonby 7, P M, arrive at Hillfbor«augh on
WcHnefday at 4, P M, at sa!em on Friday by 5,
P M, at Sai>&urv on Saturday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotltpn Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
on Tueftlay by 10, A M, arrive atSalemton Wed
nesday at g, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by g,
A M, at Warrerrton'On Saturday at 7, P M, and at
Halifax on Monday a'. 6, A M.
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
* eour Leafburg, Cafwell court-house and Roc
kingham cowt-iioufe to GermantoVn once in two
..weeks.
Leave otherThurfday at 6, A
and arrive at on* Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Geritoantown euery other 6, A, M,
. and on Tuesday at 4,, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfvilie, Roch
fard, Wilkes, Morgauton andrßutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. 'onte in two weeks.
Leave Salem **ei'y otfcer Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 P«. Leave
Spartanburg tvjiry other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m .
46. From Lotiifburgby coart-houfe to Tar-
o^ceaweek.
Jixborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6p m. Returning—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a M, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 p
47.J jFrom'Ralpg'n by Smifhfteld, Waynefborough,
arid Kingston to Newbern, once in two weekt.
LeaVe Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at "NeVbern the next Friday by 16 a m<
Returning-*Leav* Mewbern every other Friday by a
pm, and arrive at Raleigh qn Monday-by 6? m.
48. Rom Ral«3gh by Chapel hill to Hillf^oroagh,
To wait two
hours at Chaihats court-house.
Leavq Raleigh.every Tuesday by 6 a w, and ar
rive at Hilifboidugh 6, tM. Returning—l,. c^ vc
HilU\>orough evtry Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 am.
49. From Fayetrevifle by Elizabethtown, fielletort
and SpHngfiold to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Sarefto and Sampson court
haufe to once a week.
LeaVe Fajetteville every Tuesday at 6-A m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
and arrive at Fayctteville on Sunday by 5 p M*
50. From fayctteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-houfeto Sriifbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-hOuTe, Anfon court-house and Rich
' mond court-house to Fayctteville, once a week*
Leave Fayettcville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m
51. From' Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NOR7H-CAROLIN4.
52. From Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
lotte and Lincoln (on to Statefvrile, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at StatefvillC on Thursday by 6 r m LeaveStatek
ville every othey Friday by 2 ? M, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by €r. m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chofter
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville coirt-houfe t© Pickenfville, a/id
from Pickenfviile by Laurens court-house and New
bury court- house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-office on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at g a m, arrive at
Spartanburg Wednefday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday-at 4p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 $
54. From Cofumbia by Orangeburg to Charleftoo,
once a week.
Leave Ctri««l»ii every \iaaday A m and fT"
rive at Charleftflnon Tnurfday at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave Cbarlcfton every Thursday at z r m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA iff GEORGIA<
From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville courttboufe, Pendleton court-house, Hai
tonsford, Franklin court-house, £iberton and Pcterf
barg to Walhington, and from Walhington by Pe
terlburg and Cambridge to Edgefield ccmrt-houfc,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield cpurt-houfe every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p at Petersburg
on Tuesday byf 10 a m, and at Washington by 5 r
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb-idge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at £dgc
! field court-house by 7 PM.
56 From Augusta by Walhington, Greenfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, or.ce a week.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tueiday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thurfdav by 7 p m. Returning—
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, and arrive
at Augusta bv noon on Monday
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2 p m, .and arrive
a* Gairlens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—Leave Gar*,
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and anive at
iieaufort by vO a. M.
Note I. 'the Pofl Master General may alter the time*
of arrival <*nd departure at any time during the continuance
of the controls, be fireviou/ly jlipulating an adequate com
pensation for anyttetra expenfc that may beoccafioned there
by
■Note 2. Half tit hour Jball l>s allaioed Jar opening
and clafrng tUe iMsilat all where no particular time
u fpccifed.
No e S' Ftr tvef y fun,r ' i delas (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in an iving aj:er the times preferred in an v con- r
traSl, the Contraftor jhtU jorjeit one dollar. and if
lai continue until the d'fuirture any depending Mail,
whcreh\ :he M-uh icfhnti jor fach dtfwivu Mall, lofi C
a trifa an additional forfeiture of Jive dattarj shall oe t
incurred•
Nate 4 N<xuf papers at well at Lexers are to be Jent q
in the Mailt ; and if any person mafitrg proposals dtftrt u t
carry nfjifjabert other tha" those conveyed in the mail, g
for Lis.o*ol em il'tifient, be mufl slate in his propafaL' for
what sum be •will cqrry it ivitb that emolument and for n
what fur* without that emolument.
Nuie 5. Should xty person m iking propyls deftre an
alteration of the times yf arrival and departure above ft>e- I
cifird, be mufl flats i t bis pr:pofalt the alterations deKred,
an Hbe difference tiny iit;ll inake iu the terMs of bit ctn- c
trad. ' c
Note 6. Persons mating prqpofalt are deft red to flute e
their pricey 'U graft by the year, and not by the mile, a
Those to ho contrail luill receive their pay. yuart&rly y in f
the tsaUbs of January t Aprils fuly and O&obtr, in C
drafts on the post offices on the route and in bank notes. V
1 Note 7 The contrails are to-be w operation ontbe ftrfl
Jjy $f April next, and continue for four years, until
the s\Jl day of Mar oh ineluftve, in the year 1893.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poft-Mafler General.
6sn*RAl-Post OrrlCK, ">
PlAladilphi*, Dumber 18, 17974 X
tu'likst i 4th F
"House and Lots, in Bordentown:. »
TO BE SOLD, a handfomc two (lory House. 1
with the Lot on which it is ere&cd, situated t
about the -middle of the beautiful and healthy J
Yilkige of Borden town. The heufe is forty two J
feet froot, in neat order. The lot contains i
one acre, and is oue liwedred left on main
street, a-id e*tcids with the fame breadth tobaek <
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly tour
acres, from the former by back ftr«et.
One third only of the purchase money-wiil be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re- (
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
ermaychufe. This property will be fojd free o
ail incumbrances, and an indisputable title jjivewf
For farther particuUiM enquire either of Dr.
William Barnes, refidicg in Bordcntowc, near,
the premlfes, wha will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Oonveyaucer, no. 144» Market-street.
December a. 3awtf
Princeton —Neiv-Jerfey.
T» to Sold, i
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs. Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker, lived ; together with all the appur
tenances. The house is two stories high, of frame
1 work, and painted. There are are four rooms
and an entry on the lower floor, acd five roems
on the second floor. The cellars are dry, and the
garret spacious*—The br.ck yard is paved with
ftoues. In it are a well of excellent watef, an
oven, a smoke house, and houfa for
behind it a carriage house; hayloft, granary, and
convenient itftbles, with four stalls for horses, and
four for neat cattle. The lot is 60 feet wide upon
the street and -15*4 feet doep, somewhat more thaw
one half of which is made ioto a kitchen garden
of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reasonable,
apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
Jannary 19 la'w^w
Avfical Instrument Mattufatlory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVHIS OF HARMONY.
H Si R P E R>
INFORMS hU friends and thj public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of hi» new invented,
and much adiuired fide board Piano Fortes, with
tore, (jmplieitj and durahilitjr of conftrusftion, the
f»periority of flatters himfeLf, a single tri
al will convince the unprej»diced judge—As they
are manufadured under his immediate iufpeitioo,
of the very beS seasoned materials, he can fell on
raafonable terms for Cash. Inftrumtnt! repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
ntvmif 18. aiwimo.
A Gardener wanted.
A perfqn well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occasionally attend market, may
■ hear of a place by applying at the 12 mile stone,
on the Bristol road, or No. 109, Arch street,
Philadelphia. A single man would be preferedc
Jan. »o. 2awtf
For Sale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years old, has about eleven years te serve
She is very capable of taking eare of a child,
and underfta«ds house work. Enquire at No.
97, North sth street.
Jan. aa. *eed2w
' ImportedihfhelhipMANCHESTsß,
Benjamin Shewbul, Ma&er,
From Baurdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
Nn. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ")
Irish market claritt in cases / Entitled to
| Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sautewie, do, do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
' WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. d».
Pimento in bags ,
4000 bufl»els Liverpool fait.
, Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it ase one Blast and three Air Furnaces
a complete Boreing Machine, and a Very good grift
Mili, with two pair of ftoties ; also a good Forge, all
in perse& repatr, as aie all the Water Works connc&-
, ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
y for this State.—There are aboil' two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
r very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pafiure. The Cannon lately manufadured there,
fuHy proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(upeTior to any in this country, and proixibly, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nine gt»ns
I lately msde, although fame of the 24 wqre bored
into $2 pounders have failrd on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the date
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land »
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifTuing
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wilh ail theftoekand utenfiis, aud have p©ffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and prepar tion
may he madeiri the mean time for going into Blall im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, See. &c. For
termi, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; £>avid Brooks* Etq. one of the Reprefentasives
in Cor.grefs tor this State ; Mr, Waterman, on
thepremilcs, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEI'LSON.
Dee, t.
Boston Glass Manufa&ory t
THE citizens of the United States are U rj...
informed, that the manufacture of Wir i u
Glass is now commenced at the Glass Howie iu l w ;
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of th« exct I'.IU '
quality ef the Boston Ghf«, as it M fc well k i OlIl
throughout the United States to he in ever/ r [j
gre»tly fuperiai to any ever import-cd from Em '
It will be cut to any size commonly used ;
may He conflantly ha J by applying to CtfAßLiit v
KuiTer, at the Ghli Hottfe.
Orders from the distant States to be r.i Irefftd - ia
Mr. Samuel Goxe, Coort-ftreet, Boftxa.
Two ar three good Glaft maters ara Vfaot
ed at the above works; fcich is ca» produ c t re
cemmandatiaus for good behavior, may beftireof
employ, by applUatiou to Mr. Georo* L. Liftay,
at the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the turethod
of making Crown Window Glass, they wilt meet
with the fapie encouragement.
Boston, Jan. >6. 4J^.»aw6sr
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pioe-ftrSet, ocar the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to <h«ir friends and the
public, for their liberal encotiragemenf,
and hope, by their #nrttnitting attention, t® (
merit a continuance of their favors. Th« Parir
nerfhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, hat
bexn difiblved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
alld Hearn have julf received a quantity of St.
Ilomingo and Honduras MSbegony, which they
intend to fell on vefy reasonable terroiS"fJW-calh.
Orders from the country rnoft punctually wte- '
cuted. Vineers ef all kinds cwt at ul'ual.
Jan- 15- 21W4W
ALL periohs indebted to the cftate~oT Petcr
GiU, late of the Diilri& of Soi(thwark,de
ccafed, are requested to mako immediate pay.
ment to either of the Subferibars; and those
who have any demands against laid estate, are
requested to bring in their account! duly atttft.
ed-to.
JOHN MURPHY, _
PETEIt SCIiAVENBYKE, v 1 '**® 11 -
THOMAS EARRELL, 3 tor »- |
Philad. lan. i6j. 1798; *iaw4w
yuji received a trejh Supply.
English Grammar,
The fccand edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different claScs of learners;
with an appendix, containing and ob
fervatioss for alfifting th« more advanced (hidants
to wtite with ptrfpicuity a«d accuracy,
BY LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is 3 publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets thu profaflkins in the Title. Theappss.
dix contains fume of the best rules for writing «- 1
lcgantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled tt
have teen." , J
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" Thrs Grammar is, on many accounts catitlti
to commendatory netlce, its materials have been
carefully and jadicioufly feleiled ; its araangenum
it diftinii and well adapted to the purpose »f in
ftrutftion and its cxpreflion it &mple, perfpreaen
and accurate, &c>."
See the charaßer at large in tbt Analjtmti
Review, July 1796
English Exercises»
Adapted to the Grammar latety published by
Lindley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
the parts of fpeach, inftancts of salsa orthography,
violations of the mles of fyttrax, defeat in punc
tuation, and vielations of the rules refptilicg
• perfpieuity and atc«racy, deligned far the benefit
• ot private learntrS, as well as for the use of fchooh.
: .fo" m i"L h ' L" 1 *
ot thefo tieroiei. They occupy with diftingu:ft.
! cd exctllence a most important place in the fciontc
of the Cnglilh language; and as fudj, we cen
warmly recommend them to the Teachers «f
> Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
1 attaining correitnefs and preciCon in their native
< tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Boaks are far f»le at Joseph & Jamli
Crukshanks book (lore, No. 87, Market ftrect,
January {I. 3tawaw.
This Day Publiflied,
1 Aadtp be fold ty WILLIAM YOUNG, aorner ef
r Second and Chefnut ftrecu,
' Price of * Dollar, p
Obfervations on certain Decuments
, > Contained ia No. V and VI of
_ " The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the oh a toi or speculation againjl
I ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, it FULLY
• REFUTED.
JT KIT TE N Br UtMf EI F.
This publication prefentt a ooncife statement
_ ef the base means praiftifed by the Jacobint of tie
United States to asperse the chara&ers of thait
5 p«rfons wfto are considered as hcilile to their difor.
gaoizing schemes. It also contains the cor.
, rcfpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meffri
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and \Jenable, on the fub
jedl ef the docusrents aforefaid, and a series of let.
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a douk,
that the connection between hint and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A diicount of one third from the retail price
wiifbe made in favor ot wholafale purchasers, fer
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Yovno. 1
Auvuß Ij. 1
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
_ No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftreett,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Al/c, a general affortraent of Toolt,
J. Eiles and Materials, confining of Clock Movt
e ments, eight day and thirty hour brass picioct
, and farge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dialtj
i Springs, Hands, Glafles, Puaiice Stone, Emery,
II Rotten Stone, Cat Gat; bench, Hand and tail
- Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
5 * # * Apprentiecs Wanted.
n november ?. f*rt»tf
s J *
r The History of Pennfylrania,
BY ROBERT PROUD,
s ' Tg now in the press, and will be p'jblifljed"
I X with all convenient expedition, by Zicha*
s riah Poulson, jjin. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
1 Philadelphia, where-fubferiptions will continue
- to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
,f according to tbe printed propofalt, until the
c work is ready for the fubfcriberi.
Julyjß. ' qawtf_
< This day is Published,
• At the Qfflce of the Aurora, No. 11a, Market Street,
r . [Price one dollar and a half,J 1
A view of"tbecondu£fc of the EXECt I IVEin tbe
1 FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Staws cor.nefi
' ed with the Million to the Frmch Republic dariaj
j the years, 179 j, 5, 6,
; By JAMES MONROE,
- Late Minister Pler.spoientiarv to the laid Republic
1 lllullrated by his INSTRUCTIONS zvd CO&-
1 RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to tbofe who boy ta '.A
again.
December tj.