"f w an D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMBEJt 1782.J»
FOR SALE,
THE KtW AND RBMARKABLE EAST SAILINO
JSpSL MA XTMIL 1A N,
, frVy John J. Whidbee, Majler^
NOW lying at JCITe & R»bert
Wain's wharf—her length '« 69 feet 6 inches—
breadth, to ffcet, 5 inches; depth 8 feet 6 inches,
meaTures l®4 65-95 tons, and is completely piere'd
and fitted to carry 14 guns. For terms apply to
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No 166, South Front street.
Like-wise from on board f aid Schooner 9
A Quantity of Peas.
Kiln dryed Indian Meal in barrels, and 439 bar
rels of Ship Stuff.
ALSO,
120 Tierces of Rice,
Landing from on board the Schooner Elizabeth,
Captain Hatch
rany 25 4tawiw
For Cape Francois,
NORTH AMERICA,
O fail in eight or ten days,—For
freight or paflage apply to
Pratt & Kintzing,
No. 95, North "/ater, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Crust Cheefc, Tumblers, Tieklenburghs, Heflens,
Brown Rolls, &c. &c.
may 25 eod6t
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably faft failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jkremtah Tatem, master.
She will fail in ten days —for
freght or paflfage, apply to JAMES YARD.
Walnut-Jireet Wharf.
may 23 dtot
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
BELVIDERE,
Jonathan Reynolds, Mafier,
LYINGat JefTeand Robert Wain's
burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locufb—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a staunch and faft failing (hip, i? well found
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
a few lays at a very iittl* For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
street', to
RICHARD D. ARDErr.
WHO HAS FOR SA\E ON BOARD 4 A ID SHkP
10 Tons dry. white lead 4
5 Tonsof shot
13 T«ns rolled Iheet lead
ao Bal«s English Duck, alTorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
may iq §_
' JUST ARRIVED,
In tfc e brig Gay ofo, cap t. Bingham, from St. Mart ins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty cases Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HoUingf'Worth iff Co.
No. 22, Littie Water ftraet, South.
April 20. §
FOR"SALE.
1" do" bTown } Havannah Sugar
100 Hides
Will be landed ta morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on hoard the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
ALSO,
The faidßrigforfale,
ma y ta ' cc ' n i mme(^i"
, JH'M-.'xa- ately after difchargei.
Apply to
jfehu Hollingf-worth & Co,
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Sff Co.
IS this day dilfolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tofettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH ]. MILLER.
JOSEPH D sVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire of Jo
seph Davidlon.
April s6 * w&s2m
~FOR SALE.
A THREE Story ftrick House, on the north
fide ©f Spruce street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, cfq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
<onfifting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindforne
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined topurchafe will view
the premifes,a n»ore particular description iscon
fidercd unnecefTary.
The terms of payment will be one third ca(h,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
jV«. 12 Dock-Jirett.
may 16 $
CONTRACTS.
THE Managers of the alms house and houle
of employment, in this city, will receive
proposals in writing, td be left at said house on
or before Wednesday the 3®th instant, from any*
person or perf >ns, willing to contrail for fur
nifhiag Fresh Provisions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
orte year : The to commence on the firft
of enfi'ing ; the meat to be frtfliand mar-
afid to be supplied rn quarters, fore and
h;nd alternately, or in fides or carcases, as re
<!•»♦. eil ; . —»- Also, milk for the use
rf tlie said poor. The milk to be new* f\\ J eet,
and unidu'.terared, and rhe fnpply to commerice
•n the of June ensuing.
By order of the Buard of M mctgers,
JOHN CUM'dIXGS, Steward.
may 23 diij
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, MAT 28,1798.
FOR SALE
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Ourrahs, white Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Saunas
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
Tickiries Bafras
Romalls Coflas
Pdreas Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzies Carwah Cloths
An elegqnt ajforimtfit of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mor dec at Lewis.
may 25. d2w jawzw
Colle&or's Office,
Philadelphia, May 1 <;, 1708.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Custom House
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(-TD) 202 onr bale sirthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
W & P
one cafe lampr
C&C one cafe bobbin
( YV) one small b*x medicine
AB 203 6ne matted cafe Dutch books
J&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
fD] 1 a C^irec bales girth web
[VH] aoo one ditto ditto
f Nj 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bucdle slates
[LSJ one small box locks
Will be fold for Cafli,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
tbe eleventh day of June next, at the M«r
chants' Coffee house, in Pkiladelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate fale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon s Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common J of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acres in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jacwb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand fohnDilley, including
3000 acres of prior fufveys.
41000 acres in Bath'county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fide of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton. including 5000 acres of prior surveys
4000 c acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River adjqining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the eatt fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of fiid river, and
ot Calfp«i!lure River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in traclsof one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&s abova described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchzfe may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefuut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. dts
"advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Awction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rhe firft Friday "in June next, part of a tra& of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in WorceftercouH-"
ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate 01 Joshua
Townfend, deceased, fcr the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine montha.credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security for the fame, on hi
tefeft, from the day of fale.—Ali creditors of the
said Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 22d
day of December lad, that being the day of the
foil sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Traftee.
may 14. S3 W
Robert Smith Co.
No. 58, South Front-street.
HAVE received by the Chip Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Rufiia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck. &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an afTortment of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Lutestrings, and 2 variety of India Nluflins.
may 23 d.^w
30 Dollars Reward.
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
open last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car
ried off. Whoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
above reward, or in proportion fdt any patt
thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
No 58 South Front-Jlreet.
may 23 diw
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE FOR SALE,
soHogfheads Virginia Tobacco, of Frederickf
burg snd Falmourh Infpedlions.
30 Hogsheads ditto of Richmond infp«6ion.
may 8. eod'6t
Wants a Place,
AS wet nurfc, a Young Woman, who can
produce good recommendations. —Enquire
rf the Printer.
rcay 23 3t
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefkut Street.
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEjIUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, .Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
Thomas Fit%fimons
may qs.
The Rev. Dr. Blair's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
Is just Published, by
James Watt ess, fsf Co.
And may also be had of the principal booksellers.
The firft volume of the Weekly Magazine
With an appendix containing the Prefidtr.t's
meflage and the difpatehes is now publiflied,
and may b« had of the publishers—the prin
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia —by George-
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somervilie
New-York-—A few copies of the Dispatches
may be had separate.
I tnay 25 , eodtf
" OX BLEF.
100 BarreTs > of Beef of b»ft quality, put
5c half Barrels ) U P with carefor long voyages.
100 Barrels cf Conne<fticut Pork,
co Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINE S.
35 Pioes of Madeira Wine
30 Pis es of Port
30 half caflts of Sherry t
30 Calks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
&Oo Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
Too Barrels of Condemned, and
30 Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's IVbarf..
may 4 eodtf
Military Academy.
THE Public are most refpe£f fully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties i» the house formerly belong
ing to John Matters, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Sccond
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th Brinlh regiment of Foot and
afiiftant Engineer te the Army ailing in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-commissioned of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrifonand
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rafters &c. &c also the
art of drawing plans, fe&ions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortificatioa. —A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
seen. The situation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acred of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
N. 8. Gentlemen fram the Country boarded
ia the house if required.
may 10. diwiawim
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last uight, from the Subscriber,
living in York Town, Pennsylvania, a
German Servant mm, named John Nicholas
Kolb, a taylor by trade about 30 years of age
and about 5 feet 2 inches high, has brown curled
hair, and nearly bald cn his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a silk velvet cape and a dark
blue coat with steel buttons, a green raixtured
cloth jacket, cloth colored thickset pantaloons a
new rorum hat, clouded cotton stockings and
calf-fkin (hoes with firings. He is a good fchel
lar in the German tohgue and ("peaks English ;
it is likely he may lurk in and about the city of
Philadelphia as he has acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and feciires' said fervantin
any goal so that his mailer can have him
ftiall have the above reward paid by me,
Thomas Ozueru.
may 2; tw
Germantown and Reading 1 urn
pike Road Company.
, r T~ I HE Subscribers Commiflioners appointed by
X an Adt of Aflembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, " An ail to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph - ]
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout j
of Chefnut Hill, to the twelve mil* stone on j
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books :
are provided as the law directs, and that we j
will proceed to receive fubfcripti'onrffor the com
pany's stock on the 28th, 39th, and 30th days
of May next, at the City Hall, rn the city of
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Btrr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
, tne county of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock,P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the Commiflioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly,
april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
Caspar w. Haines,
SAMUEL BfcTl ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOVVER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEOftGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
(hare at the lime of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt^oM
TO BE SOLD,
By John Nixon Go.
A fevir hhds. ef excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will behnded at Will ngsand Fran
cis* whaaf text Monday, the 21ft instant.
may >6. djt eotf
A Country Heat to Let.
NEAR, the Frankfordroad, about four and a
half miles frantt Philadelphia—the situation
1 remarkably pltafjnt and healthy. Immediate
- pofitflion may be had Apply at No. 144
south Second Street.
may 4 3tawtf
CONGRESS.
MOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Mayxt.
( Con tin -fd from Saturday'/ Gazette.)
The next question w as upon ftrikingout from
the firft of the bill, " whenever hefhall
judge the public fafety requires the measure,"
and to insert in its place the amendment of the
Sele£l Committee as amended, mentioning
the three contingencies in which the President
may proceed to raise the army.
MY. Sitgreaves enquired whether it
would be in Order to divide the question so as
that he might votfor ftrikingout and againjl
inserting—and being answered in the affirma
tive, he said he would then call for such a di
vision of the question. He had felt, during
the present fefiion, very little dilpofition to
take up much of the time of the house or of
the fcommittee ; but as r\o gentleman had at
all exprefled the opinions which he, Mr. S.
entertained on this subject ; and as the sub
ject was of so great importance that silence,
under such circumstances, could not be com
patible with duty ; he mall intreat the indul
gence of the committee while he explained,
as briefly as he could, the reasons why he hop
ed the words contained in the bffl from the
Senate might be ftruckoqt, and neither those
contained in the amendment, nor any othsrs,
be substituted in their ftead.—lt was his opi
nion, formed after much anxious considera
tion, and which he therefore could not fup
pfefs, altho' from what he had heard in the
house for some days he could not expe6t that
his ideas would prevail generally with the
members—it was his opinion that the military
force contemplated by this bill should be im
mediately raised ; and that it ought not to de
pend either upon the discretion of the Presi
dent as provided by the Senate, or, what is
worse, upon the fpecific contingencies expres
sed in the amendment ef the seleCt committee.
He had no objection so trust the President %
with the difcretipn alluded to, but as he was
very clearly of opinion that the circumstances
ofthe country required thatarefpeCtable mi
litary force should be provided without delay,
he did not desire to throw upon the President
a responsibility which he was ready to take
upon himfelf, and which he thought ought
j to be borne by Congress rather than the Pre
sident. At a time when the country is admit
ted on all fides to be in danger, he could not
admit the idea of a pro e vifional army ; he be
lieved that the military establishment ought tq
be increased by an addition equal to the oxi
gencies of the times, and that this increafc
ought to be authorized and directed, by law,
in the usual and ordinary form.—
The committee had heard much about a
Spirit of compromise. He believed that this
bill had in its origin and progress grown out
of this spirit of compromise ; this spirit had
nearly strangled it in its birth, in the Senate ;
and this spirit had mangled and mutilated it
in the felett committee of this houfe—for
himfelf, he always had believed, and he still
believed that this spirit is an evil spirit j that,
on great and important public points of dif
ference, it never had produced, and never
could produce, any good. On a question
like the present, he believed there was no
half-way line, no middle cotarfe, which could
be correft—lf the actual or probable circum
stances of the country require military prepa
-1 rations, they ought to be made ; and if there
is no danger, there is no necefliry for prepa
ration. The spirit of compromise which had
prevailed on this occasion, he thought there
; fore was unwise and improper; it was acting
like arbitrators, wh©, under the notion of
splitting the difference, did justice to neither
party, but injuftioe to both. He would not
lay that there is, to use the very restricted lan
guage of the amendment, attual imminent dan
ger of an invasion ; but if there are any ap
pearances, in the state of our foreign relati
ons, to juftify a reasonable belief that in one,
two, or three years hence, war may be made
upon us in our own territory, he believed it
w as the of Coiigrefs, notv to
begin to make preparations to meet it. If we
should wait until the danger becomes imminent y \
before we commence the railing of an army, :
we shall wait too long. Much time is requi- I
site to be employed in the railing and organ
izing a regular army ; and much more be/ore
it can be disciplined so as to be efficient. He
agreed with thole gentlemen who believed
that a regular army was most to be depended
upon in time of declared war ; but he suppo
sed it would be conceded that such an army,
in its early infancy, consisting of raw recruits,
imperfeifly disciplined, is much feebler and
much less to be relied on than the militia of
the Country, who supply the defe£Vof disci
pline by principle and enthusiasm—The mi
litia will be composed of men, having a com
mort interest in the community, who take the
field to fight pro aris et focis, for their own
preservation and the protection ot their fami
lies?, connexions, friendsand country : where
as a regular army in this, as in all otlicr coun
tries, will be made up, in a great measure, of
the idle and the profligate, who have no pro
perty to defend, who are without employ
ment, and without industry to seek it—ln this
observation, he begged it to be undefftood
that he referred to the private soldiery and
not to the officers—lf therefore the bill was
calculated only for cases of invasion, or of im
minent dangef of fnvafion, there #Oll id be 110
doubt but the immediate resource of the na
tion qmft be in its militia ; it is a joke to talk
of raising a regular army to repel an invasion
which has occurred, or which is, as it were, at
our door. Before a regular army, commenc
ed thus late, could operate effectually, the
enemy will have effected their lodgment, in
the heart of the country, will have taken oiu?
chief towns, and have fortified them against
our attacks. For all purposes therefore of
temporary defence, he presumed the hopes of
the nation niuft reft on the militia and on the
volunteers. He understood the army, con
templated by this bill, to be deligned to meet
that state of rhinos when one or two years
hence, all obstacles being removed which at
present oppose thcmfelyes, on the ocean, to
the enterprizes of France, she may be left at
liberty to reek her vengeance upon us, by a
powerful invasion ofthe territory ot the Uni
ted States. This is a state of things which we
ought to anticipate, whether the projetled
expedition against England should fucceedor
fail, it is alike reasonable so expect that un
der either circum'iance, itsitlue will induce*
peace between those rival powers : and when
that shall take place, fheFe will be nothing to
prevent France from fending iier ships and her
troops across the atlantic to'the inva:ion of A-
merica—lt is again ft this period that Congr eft
ouglrt to prepare with a prudent ferefight of
events ; and to be prepared, they cannot begin
* too soon. According to all ordinary calcula
tions, they will not, even if they begin now*
have their army in a state of efficient readi-*
ness before it will.be wanted. The country
i is not the less in danger, that the danger is not
1 at the door this is a truth, all important, but
* which did not appear to be fufficiently under •»
s flood.
; He requested that gentlemen who opposed
t this bill would retrace the arguments which
ufed in the course of this fcflion.
t When measures of defence have been propo
sed, when arming the merchant-vefiels nrf
been under d.'fcuflion, ami when it was con J
tended that the public fliips of the United
States Ihould be used as convoys, have they
\ not urged, with the utihoft lolicitnde, that
> these measures rnuft necelTarily produce a
P war ? When the dispatches were about to be
t published, did they not flrenuoufly contend
that it would be equal to a declaration of war*
and would effectually destroy all remaining
hope of accommodation ? Yet, after these
' measures have been adopted, and war, ac
cording to their own reasoning, has thus be
come inevitable, and when it is now
\ to be prepared for so probable an event, they
affett to have difmifled all apprehension, and
[ tell us " there is no danger—For himfeltj
Mr. Sitgreaves said, he was ready to avow
' that he had, always, believed there was dan
ger —he had, all ak>ng, believed that it was
not in owr power, by any efforts, to preserve
[ peace; he had calculated upon the profl gacy
* of the government with whom we were at va
riance, upon their boundless ambition, their"
exceflive arrogance, and their insatiable re
' fentments. He had believed that the ruler*
of France would suppose their individual in
terests to depend on contention with Ameri-»
ca ; and he had never imagined that our dan
_ ger could be averted, or would be accelerat
ed, by the measures we had adopted ; and
when he had voted for those measures, »t was
* j not from an expectation of averting, but with
: the view of meeting the danger—He now be-
I lieved that, unless circumliances should occuf
i in Europe which are not under our controul,
» the time-would come when all the difficulties
would be removed which, atprefent, prevent
" | the Directory from pointing their forceagainlt
I this country, except those which they should
! encounter in our own courage and our own
" resources : especially if that fentrment should
prevail which had been so often expreffedy
that a war with France was less to be depre
* cated than an alliance with England. If no
, compaot could be made with Great Britain
that Ihould secure to us the alliltance and pro
» tedtioO of her navy ; and when her numerous
fleets shall no longer cover the ocean and
1 keep the fleets of France blocked up in hef
j own ports ; what is there to prevent those
fleets from landing her military hordes on our
, shores ? We mult in that cafe be exposed,
j I alone and unaflifted, so all the efforts of an
enemy whom gentlemen affect to consider as
J all-powerful, and of whose resentments then?
can be no doubt. What is to become of the
» immense armies, composed of turbulent and
refllefs spirits, habituated to licencioufnefsi
r and plunder, when they can no longer be a-*
1 mufedwitfi the chimera of a conquest of Great
| Britain? How. will they be disgorged from
France, where their continuance mud be fatal
to the rule of those who now exercise the pow—
* ers oi the government ? Where are they to
find the rewards which have been so lavishly*
promised when they shall have atchieved the
fafety of the republic ? Is there not good rea
son to fear that they will be sent to feek^their
■> reward in America, to divide our lands, and
[ eitablifh a military colony in the United States?
Are we not exposed to every project of this
fort in the south, and from the quarter of Lou
isiana ? —He believed that these are not exag
gerated apprehensions, tKat they ought to ex
cite us seriously to think ofa danger that may
not be very remote ; and with firmnefs and
» resolution ro prepare for the w'orffc He could
not, for himfelf, consent to poflpone, one day,
the raifingj of an army that might be likely ef
-1 fectually to prote* the country, when our
troubles shall come upon us ; he could never
' consent to impose on tha.Prefident the refpon
» Ability of so important a measure ; ft<ll less
was he willing, so to confine and reftriift his
dilcretien, as that he could only nfe it when
■ it would be too late. He repeated that how
ever soon our preparations might-begin, there
was a (trong probability that the army could
not be efficiently raised, organized, equipped,
and disciplined, before it might be neceirary
to call them into action*
Solemnly imprefl'ed with this convi&ion,
he inuft vote for raising this army immediate
ly, altho' he had no expectation that such a
vote would succeed ; but placed in a refpon
(ible fit nation, in critical times, he could not
otherwise discharge his duty, than by decla
ring his opinion candidly, and prefling it up
on the Committee. He was sensible that, in
exprelling this opinion, he should differ from
some refpedtable si ends with whom he had
. always aited—He lamented itextremely—He
: lamented that any of his friends should adopt
sentiments, which, as he conceived, tended
to cripple the necellary measures of defence ;
» that they should swell the numbers of those
who had been uniform in their opposition to
1 these measures. Of all poflible times, he be
» lieved the present to be the leaf! proper for
Compromife—ln such timesgentlamen should
* think for themselves, should act from the re
sult of their opinions; and, if they cannot
: succeed in carrying measures which they think
1 neceflary for the honor and interefi of the
t Country, should devolve the refpoiifibility of
* confequenceson those who defeat them.
' While he was up he would notice the ob
-1 fervations of some members who profefs to
f declinfc voting for the proposed armament,
t because on a recent queflion, others had voted
t to limit the duration of the direct tax. to one
f year. No man regretted more than ke did
the decision of that queffion, or was more de
flrous that the duration of the tax should be
commensurate wi.h the expence which it
was intended to defray r but it did not fol
low, that because thsy had commited one er
ror, they should commit another. The de
fence of the country ought not to be crippled
from an idea that motaev would not be raised
to meet the expence—lt is our duty to adopt
the necelfary measures of defence, and after
wards it will be our duty to provide the mo
ney. The fcflion wasnot yet closed, and be
fore the house rises, itcoiiid not be doubted
but resources would be found to answer all
exigencies.—He concluded with calling for a
di vi (ion of the queltion.
The queflion on inking out the words in
the original bill, viz. tf whenever he (lull
[Volume XIII,judge the public fafety requires the me&fure" |
was put and carried, ihere being' 72 votes |
for it. J
Vlr. Harper then moved to insert the
words recommended to be inferred in their
place by the Select Committee, viz. " in the
event of a declaration of f war againjl the Unit
ed States, or of actual invasion of their territory
by a foreign power, §r of immediate danger of
such invasion, difcoveredy in his opinion y to ex
iji
The question was carried, there being 68
votes for it.
The next amendment proposed by the Se
left Committee was to strike out twenty thou- !
sand (men) and to insert ten thousand.
Mr. GalhtjN wirtied this question to be
divided, as he wiflicd to strike out twenty,
and insert five thousand. He was led to wish
this amendment from the general agreement
wjiich there teemed to be, and "greeably to
the confeffion jof. his colleague (Mr. Sit
greaves) that at piefent there exills no danger
of an invasion from Europe. If there was a
ny danger at all, it seemed so be confined
wholly to the Southern States, and it was said
yefterdav by a gentleman from that quarter
(Mr. -Pinckney) that 12 or 1390 men in South
Carolina would be very ufeful. If that num
ber would be fufficient for that State, Mr.
G. thought 5000 Would be a number fuffici
ent to be railed for any object to which they
could Ue applied. As for himfelf he wasa
gainfV the bill in toto, as he did not. believe
in any danger, which the militia would not
be able to meet ; but if an army must he rai
sed, it need not be larger than gentlemen
Coufd find an use for.
Mr. Hartley had some doubt whether
Congress ought not then to go further than
was intended by the bill, and vote for an ef
ficient force to be raised immediately. No
thing but the expence, and the strong objec
tions made against the neceflity of ihe mea
sure, induced him to be in favour only of a
provisional army, to be raised on certain Con
tingencies.
The right of delegating the power intended
to be given to the President has been very
fuHy discussed. He thought there had been
great accommodation on the part ol the ma
jority to limit the fjme»
The President, Mr. H. said, will be in a
very delicate and responsible situation. The
whole world looking on, he will certainly
strive to aft inthebeif manner.—He was per
fectly fatisfied that the President should have
the power of railing the 20,000 men, or as
many of them as he thought necelfary, upon
one or more of these contingencies happening.
No one ought to fay that 20,000 men in cafe
of a war would be too many. In the yeai
1776, when we were contending against a na
tion perhaps not so formidable by Jand as the
que now ibout annoying us ; Congress voted
88 battalions of infantry, besides cavalry and
arrillery, and afterwards 16 additional batta
lions were voted. '
Whenever armies are to be raised by re- ,
cmiting, you must in thefirft place be at Con
siderable expence in supporting officers with
out men, but this cannot be avoided.—The
officers should be felefted from the several
states, and diiperfed over the Union.
If we have a war, as the President might
engage men for a shorter period than threes
years, he trusted that the sons of the yeoman
ry oj the country would cofne forth as on a
former ocgafion.
Mr. 11. said, gentlemen might speak as
highly as they pleased in favour of militia—
The plan now in view would draw a part of
them into the standing troops, where they
would be better disciplined; and, in addition
to the knowledge of shooting, they would ac
quire that of moving and manoeuvring to ad
van sage.
Standing troops will be neceflary in a war
of any Length. You may occasionally call the
militia ; but it would be immensely inconve
nient to be constantly calling the husband
man from the field, .and the mechanic trom
his labours, and to have the whole country
marching and countermarching. Short tours
of duty in the militia is a serious difficulty,
and cannot well be helped.' Some attempts
have been made to retain the militia in camp
fix months, but they have been diftrefling ;
one instance he woufd mention —In the year
j776, a reinforcement to the Northern Army,
5000 militia, were ordered out under the
command of General Bricket. They were
very good men, they were in camp for some
months at Ticonderoga; but, from camp du
ty, Reparation from their families, and impa
tience, they became sickly and de pre (Ted, and
were daily applying for discharges.
Where the service is not of long duration,
butaftive, the militia can be ufeful, especi
ally in a woody country. They may frequent
ly aft to advantage in aid of the regular troops.
They performed their duty in union when
General Burgoyne'sarmy was taken. A num
ber of bold and decided men left theirhomes,
resolved that the invading army should be
destroyed or taken before they returned. The
army was taken. —In several other places the
militia atchieved reputation.
Mr. H. was not for a large standing army in
time of peace—-nor in time of war for more
troops than would give security, and be a
convenience to the reft of the community.—
He strongly urged the propriety in the present
state of things, of granting the power to the
President. He was confident it would be
faithfully attended to. Tf any intentional
wrong took place, an enlightened people
would discover it.
From the arguments of some gentlemen,
all is security—we have nothing to fear—
Those arguments have been so forcibly or
artfully used, that for the moment numbers
may be led away by them. Recolleftion and
thought will bring them back; and if they
do not diflent or discredit absolutely what is
said about our security, they mud doubt it
and prefer their own rneafures.
If none of the contingencies contemplated
in the bill happen, no men are to be raised ;
but if any of them should happen, the num
ber should not be reduced from 10,000 men
to 5,000, but rather remain at 20,000.
As to providing the means, Mr. Hartley
was inclined to think that they were not obli
ged to go to any great extent. No money
was provided to pay the militia who may be
called out; but the national charafter and
honour are certainly pledged to furnifh what
may be neceflary—fo they will in this cafe.
He conceived, however, that it might be
prudent to appropriate or *OO,OOO
dollars at present, to be under the direftioh
ot the President, in cafe troops were to be
raised under this bill, which might be appli
ed towards bounty, or equipping.—He was
decidedly against the motion for reduftion.
Mr. Harper did not know by what kind
of reasoning the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania could conclude that nobody apprehen
ded any danger from invasion/except from
the Weft-Indies, and that in the Southern
States. He had himfelf said, that there was
dangerin that quarter, but by no means that
there was none any where else ; so far from it
he had declared it to be his opinion that there
was as much danger in Rhode Ifiand, as in
any* othfir part of the Union. Another gen
tleman Speaker) contended that the Ar
my on the coafts'of Franoe r which in gasco
nading style they call the afmyof England,'
may be the Army of America, and the trans
ports collefting jit Bordeaux and Brest, in
stead of being intended to go against London,
may be sent to Florida or against Rhode-Is
land. This, in his mind, was a probable e
vent; and when he saw 150, or 200,000 men
collefted on the shores of France, said to be
for a particular purpose, lie could readily
conceive that a wing of that army might have
another destination. He had not the happy
turn of mind of the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania, who, notwithstanding all that was
heard and seen from France and her Agents,
could still believe that we have no danger to
apprehend, except from the Weft Indies.
Mr. H. believed the mod imminent danger
i was from that quarter, but by no means the
only danger, he believed there were others,
not only great but serious and threatening;
he believed the Executive Direftory were too
wife and had tpo good information to make
an attempt on England ; and though he d.i.d
not believe that we had any ceitain know
ledge of an intended invasion from Europe,
yet it was extremely probable. He was
therefore opposed to the reduftion of the pro
posed army to 5,000 men, because he did not
think them fufficient, nor did he concur with
anothergentlemanfromPenn(ylvania(Mrv Sit
greaves) that an army mult be raised for a year
or hvo before it can be ufeful. Much depen
ded upon officers ; and he believed if these
were active and did their duty, three months
would make an army as fit for service as three
years. He therefore believedan army of 10,000
men might be railed and c«mpleated for the
field, it occasion required, before the next
feflion of Congress ; and lie did not mean to
fay that any danger could aflail us in the mean
time, which 10,000 men, with the alliftance of
the Militia (whose service he never meant to
lose fight of) would not be able to repel.
Mr. H. said, had he been so defirousof de
grading the Militia, as his colleague (Gen.
Sumter) had supposed, he should have cited
some instances of their disgrace, which he
could hav<* easily done. He believed the Mi
litia were the materials out of which a defence
was to be raised, but he still believed that it
was neceirary to have a regular force to aft
with them ; and though 5,000 men might be
fufficient for the proteftion of the Southern
Coast, as they might be wanted in other quar
ters, he should be opposed to railing any less
number than 10,000 men.
(To be concluded in our next.)
Fox's Auction Room.
ON Tuesday next, at ten o'clock in the
morning, will be fold by au&ion, a num
ber of articles in the Sadiery and Coach
Harness line—confiding of
Complete fettsof Coach and Cha-"J
riot harness for 2& 4 horses j
Complete setts of Chair Harness finely plated
Complete setts of Furniture for |
like harnefi J
Plated Bitts, Spurs, Territs, Buckles, Staples &c.
Spur Leathers, Straps &cr
ALSO,
A quantity of Englilh Walnuts
Capers
Swefct Oil
Coffee Bags
Glass-Ware
L'ooking Glades
Silver Watches
At the fame time will be fold
Six Bales of German Linens.
EDfVARD FCXf auftioneer.
may 22 dts
MAILS are now received from and
sent to the following places every day
Sundays excepted.
Alexandria, Va. Havre de Grace, Md.
Baltimore, Md. New Brunfwick, N.'J-
Bladenfburg, Md. Newark, N. J.
Boston, Ms. New Kaven, O.
Briflol, Pa. New York, city.
Charleston. Md. Princeton, N> J-
Chester, Pa. Rahway, N. J.
Christiana, De. , Trenton, N. J.
Elizabethtown, N.-J. Washington, city.
Elkton, Mi, Wilmington, D.
Georgetown, Ptk. Woodbridge, N.J.
Mails from Winehefter, Va. are made up every
Thursday 74 A. M. and Friday half an hour be
fore sunset,
May 22, 1798. *)
General Poll Office. J eo6t
To be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofiu the wharf on the river De
laware,
A Large new two story brick Houfc, and Lot
sixty leet in front and one hundred deep—
The Houie con fills of two large parlours, one 17
by sf, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
well tinifhed garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well finilhed and in perse& order.
Immediatee poflcflion will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, wh© will inform the price and shew the
premises.
may 24 3ta2w
Bank of the United States,
May 15th, 1798.
NOTICE is hereby given, that previoua to
the renewal of Certificates for Shares of
this Bank, which may be loft or destroyed, it
will be required in future, that a particular de
scription of the original certificates should be ad
vertised twice a week for three months in the
New fpaper (failed " The Gazette of the United
" States & Philadelphia Daily Adiertifer "
informing of ttye loss or deftruAion, and the in
tention of the party to apply for a renewal.
In fix calendar months after the expiration of
the advertising as above, the New Certificates
will be illued upon the claimants producing
proof of their having been advertised as requir
ed, together with the teftimeny of the loss er
deftrudlion, and giving the usual security to in
demnify the dank against any injury whiph may
arise from the renewal.
By Order of the Directors,
G. SIMPSON, Ccfhitr.
may 15. iaw6w
" FOR SALE, *
THE whole or on? half of a PLANTATION
on the riVer Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordcnton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of ruea*
do w) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meacow without'injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
heufewith a barn, liable, gvanary and other r«-
celfary buil'ings go with or.c part in cafe of a di
vilion ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one «f the most elegant situations f«r a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good qujJity,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land er water* For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thmas St- John.
May; todtf
(^asette.
PHILADELPHIA,
. MONDAY EVENING, 28.
FO/t THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
No. 11.
IT was, indeed, time to draw our mis
placed affeftions home, and concentrate
them upon their proper objeft, our own
country—to learn how difgraceful it was to
gratify an inveterate antipathy againd a na
tion with which we were at peace, and t»
cherilh for another, that has never ceased to
do us illfervices, even the rapturous attach
ment of a lover. As an individual, I would
not be so imprudent as to trud a dranger
>Vith unbounded confidence, and I (hould
blush to indulge a rancorous hatred for an
enemy whom I had overcome. Grant that
Great-Britain deserved, during the revolu
tionary war, the warmed resentment of
America ; was not our opposition to her
views crowned with success ? Did we not,
at the point of the sword, compel her ro
fubferibe our independence ? I may be an
swered " Yes, with the aflidance of l'rance,
we did." It is true, that without the co
operation of France, we might have fuffered
more : but do those who give me this an
swer, think so degradingly of the American
spirit, as to ascribe principally to France
the attainment of our independence ? Do
they believe that we (hould have submitted,
hal we stood alone ? The power of the
parent country was great indeed, but the
determination to form a free and indepen
dent government was too (irmly taken to be
relinquidied. But let us suppose that we
are indebted to France for our liberties,
that our own exertions would have been
impotent arid unfucctfsfnl, —grant all this ;
what was the chara&er of France at the
time (he affided us, and what her obje£t ?
Tell me, my learned friends, was it the
guardian angel of liberty who flew to our
(uecour—the prote&or of the op pre (Ted—
the friend of. equal liberty? If so, why
inditute Fedivals to commemorate the cru
el Day in which that friend was murder
ed ? What new chains are these that you
rejoice are broken ? It cannot be that
you mean our deliverers wore chaitls them
selves ?—kind fouls ! if this was the cafe,
it was generous indeed to travel 3000 miles
in fetter* to relieve us from bondage. How
sincerely they must have fympathiied in our
fuffe'irgs, so entirely to have forgottsn their
own ! But to be serious, and to be plain, I
can find but little worth copying in either
republican or monarchical France. Not so
with the country from which we sprang
I am not blinded to its faults, which are
not a few ; but then I fe£ much to admire.
If lha.l be my talk to attempt a cursory
comparison between those two countries,
ajn'd the treatment we have met with from
them refpe&ivcly ; in order to ascertain hqw
far the Warm attachment we have expreflcd
for the one, and the inveterate hatred we
have VoWed, agaipft the other, is judifiable
and proper.
We profefs ourfclves to bi freemen ;
we pertinacioully infid upon preserving the
liberty of the press unrestrained ; and yet
no American has, heretofore, dared to speak
of Great-Britain in any other terms than
those of contumely. The epithets "tyrant,"
" monder," " Have," any body might ven
ture fafely to apply to that nation, and would
be sure to gain applause. For my part I
am not disposed, especially at the expence
of truth, to gratify such a savage disposi
tion in any reader be he who he may. .1
am father content so run the risque of be
ing called names myfelf ; —any one is fully
at liberty to call me Tyrant Fabricius—
Monder Fabricius, Slave Fabricius, or any
other such ridiculous name. 1 have only
to fay, in reply, that I consider myfelf a
freeman— ti native, but mark me, not an
adopted American. As such lam entitled
to certain rights that I will not surrender
but with my life ; and among those rights
I deem roc the- lead valuable the privilege
of speaking, and, if I choose, of printing
my sentiments freely, being responsible,
only, to the laws of my country for the
abuse of that liberty. You who cannot
submit to the expression of opinions different
from your own, without resorting to vio
lence to puni(h the man who presumes to
jhink for himfclf, examine, if it be poflible,
your hearts in the mirror of truth, and you
will find them wretchedly diseased with
pafiion, malice, hatred, and many other
dreadful failings : you will then be better
able to determine who is the bafcfl Have—
the bigot who fuffers none to think differ
ently frorti himfelf, or the man who allows
to another the fame privilege he alks for
himfelf.
I was not the lad to engage in our revo
lntionary war ; nor will I be the fird to sur
render up that independence I lent my mite
to acquire. My vote (hall never be given for
bending the knee to any nation on earth.
Let us, however, refpedl in another, even
if he be a dranger, or an enemy, those quali
ties which are really worthy of being co
pied. I am not disposed to give to the
government and laws of England a prefer
ence to our own ; but I recognize a strong
resemblance between them. IJo not now
speak exclusively of the conditution of the
United States. I take into consideration
all of our frames of government as well as
that, and the laws of our country. lam
aware, that the Britilh government requires,
at a proper time, forme improvement—that
some of its genuine principles (hould have
fairer play. It suits us 10 have a republican
government —the English have preferred,
for several centuries, a frame of government
p3rtlymonarchical, partly aridocratical, and
partly democratical. They allow to us the
right of enjoying 0111 way of thinking with
regard to our particular frame of govern
ment ; why not extend to them the fame
indulgence ? In all essential points the liber -
1 ties of the people are guarded in both. It
is true we enjoy mafty blelfings that the
Eriglilh cannot boad of; but examine our
civil regulations, and our boaded conftitu- j
tions, and it will be found that ii* adopting j
the one, and in framing the other, we have
thought it worth while to pattern after the
Englilh model. No citizen of the United
States can be deprived of his life, his liber
ty, or his preperty, iinlefs declared to be
forfeited by the judgment of his peers, or
by the law of the land. Is an Englishman's
life, liberty, or property, lefsfecure ? Ex
amine Magna Charta, and there will be
found an article guarding them in almost the
very uOrds. "An article so important,"
observes a celebrated Trench writer*, speak- |
ing of that part of Magna Charta, " that ;
it may be said to comprehend the whole :
end and design of political fotieties." Let j
me not be told that the right offufpending
the Habeas Corpus aft, can, at any time, '
cheat a fubjefl of the king of England of
his liberty ; for the very fame , power of
suspension, which, in certain conjunctures,
the fafety of the commonwealth may re
quire to be exercised, is veiled by our own
government ia Congrefsf. Is not the liber
ty of ths press protested by similar regula
tions in both countries ? Are Englishmen's
houses less their castles than our own? What
are the powers of the tyrant of England,
as he has been called, " that king of fea
robbers—that monder, whose arly law is
power, and who refpefts neither the rights
of nations nor the property of individuals ?"'[
Let a solemn ilatute, || puffed long before |
this bludering defamer's birth, give thc<.
answer. " Be it likewise declared and !.
enaQed, by the authority of this present j
parliament, that neither his majedy, nor his j
privy council, have, or ought to have, any 1
jurifdi&ion, power, or authority, to exa
mine, or draw into question, determine, or
dispose of the lands, tenements, goods, or
chattle s ps any of the fubje&s of this king
dom." By many other ftatutesf it is de
clared that the king (hall impose no taxes,
in any (hape whatfoevcr, without the con
sent of Parliament. *
- By bur Cqnditution,s Congress have the
power to raise and support armies ; but no
appropriation of money for that use (hall
last longer than two years." This biennial
appropriation is intended periodically to in
vest any one of the branches of our govern
ment—the President, the Senate, or the
House of Representatives, with the power
of preventing the army being improperly
made use of. The English bill of
declares "that the railing or keeping a Hand
ing army within this kingdom, in time of
peace, unless it be with cenfent of Parlia
ment, is agaitifl law. Altho' the Parlia
ment found it neceiary, antecedent to the
present war, to eftablilh a (landing body of
troops, this army was.only raised for one
year, and the taxes dedined for its payment
and the Mutiny Bill for its regulations were
obliged to' be annually renewed ; so that it
was, and.mutf still be, after the conclusion
of the pTefent war, in the power of the
King, the House of Lords, or of the ®om
mons, tofufpend the military eftablilfiment.
Our Condicutiort declares " that no soldier
(hall iu 4ime of peace be quartered in any
House without the consent of the owner,
nor in time of war, but in a manner to be
prescribed by law."** Thepetition of richt
enafts that <' no soldier (hall be quartered
on the fubjeft without his own confent."f f
By the ioth article of the amendments to
the conditution of the United States, it is
declared " that excellive bail (hall not be
required." A provision very wifely adopt
ed to protest our persons from opprefiive im
prisonments. I fay wifely adapted altho' it
be copied from the regulations of a " horde
of (laves.lt would be fatiguing to enu
merate all the points of resemblance between
the civil inditutions of the two countries ;
it is fufficient to have felefted some of the
mod remarkable. My objetf isto (hew how
we, intuitively as it were, patter* after the
nation we despise, hate and abhor ; and,
for the honour of our Country, how little
we resemble the people we profefs so much
t o admire.
Permit me to enquire how comes it if the
Briti(h are (laves, that the determinations of
their Courts of Judice, which, and which
only eltablilh the fate of their Lives, Li
berties and Property, are of the highed au
thority in our Courts ? What ! does the
blood of every true born son run cold at the
thought? You are, already, feeling if your
heads are onyouc (houlders. It is mod true!
We make use, in our Scales of Justice, of
the very fame weights that this " Tyrant,"
this " Monster" and his " Minions" have
regulatsd. " Forbid it Liberty ! forbid it
Equality ! we will have nothing in common
with them ; there mud be death and disease
in their example." But my good friends,
these people are wicked enough to eat and
deep—dart not I beseech you—be confid
ent and vow a perpetual fad. They are
brave ; you mud >efolve to be cowards.—
1 hey cherilh and cultivatethe Amor Patria:.
You mud become traitors. Their exerti
ons rife with the occasion. " The fird
blow we will take off our hats—the second
(hall drive us upon our knees and the third
(hall make us bite the dud." Their vessels
ride triumphant in evory quarter of ihe
world : were all the Nations on earth united
againd these people they would make a bold
dand and then not die but in the lad ditch.
* M. Di 1 Jmc.
f Conll. U-. States, Ar. Se&. 9.
\ 25 Edw.l. c. 5 and 6. 34 Edw.l. ft. 4. c. I.
14 Edw. 111. ft 2. c. 1. 3 Car. 1. i.W&M. ft.
2. C 2.
§ Ar. 1. fed. 8.
|| 16 Car. I. cap. 10.
f Stat. 1. W & M. c. 2.
* * sth art. of Amend, to Const If. States.
•ft 3 Car.l. Among the boasted right* of the
Poles was reckoned the privilege not having
Hldiers quartered on Mod. Univ ; Hist.
xxxiv. 23. This was the nation we thought a ter
reltial Paratl fe compared to Great Briun, before
rh. late calamities of the Poles.
\\ 1. W. & M. It. 2. c 2.
I"" Let our merchants take care ef theit
veflels themselves, wtfee no honour in dying
in the JirJl or in the lajl Ditch." Come,
j my friends, be honed for. onqe, and fpealt
! the truth ; have you uot been anticipating
j the meridien fplendonr of the United States
i —when we (hall be flrong enough to make
all others bend to our powers—when our
proud vessels (hall fefee a welcome in ' every
port? When this (hall be the cafe, and fate
has as irrevocably deemed it to be so as you
have prayed for it, it mu!l be expeSed that
some turbulent, restless demagogue will then
apply to us such terms us " Mcnfter,"
i " 'pyrant" and " Leviathan evrn if, at
that period, the lives, the liberties, and the
• property of Americans should be as secure
I as those of Englilhmen are at fltis day in
; England. May it then be said of us, with
! as much truth as it has by a learned
■ French writer observed of the English. the
objtfts of our scorn and hatred. " They
know better than any other people upon
earth, how to value at the fame time these
three great advantages, religion, commerce,
and liberty."^
FABRIduS.
§§ Montesquieu's Spirit of Laws, lib. xx. cap #
TO THE PEOPLE.
A WORB TO THE WISE.
The obje<ft of the last address under this pro
verbial signature W2« to warn /ou against the
perversion cf good maxims for bai purpofa®,
and, as if the writer had been inlpired by *
prophetic Jpirit, the fubje(Hion of Switzerland
| has fmce illnftrated his do&nne.
! dny nation that makes peace its great objefi t
\ for the fake of encretftng its wealth, mttji at
■ some time or other% fall a prey to a rapacious
conqueror. Look at Switzerland and behold the
j proof ! What has become of th# spirit of Wil
liam Tell ? Wh« now wiil dare to walk ere<ft
before an ensign of despotism. let up by a band
of atrocious villains, in a fi-H fuaken with the
blood of women and children ? It was once
said of the Swits that their best produce was
" Man and Steel, the Soldier and his Sword
but mistaking the want of motive for war in o
ther actions, ter the effe<£t ojf-.their independent
charafler, Ihev dwindled into a set of mer«
mercenaries. They for a long time have been
fouud scattered ov<r Europe in three appropriate
protelfions. ift. Hirelings for military parade,
sd. Doorkeepers to tfoe great : and 3d. Usurers.
The Swiss guards usually surround the pala
ces of king and on a certain icth of August,
they were.maflacrei likefheepin Paris, without
exciting one sentiment of refentpient in their
degraded nation. The love of paace, or rath
er the fear of lofiqg their wealth by war, ab
sorbed every other idea and imposed a fhameful
silence.
" Parlez an Svuje" used to be seen over the
entrance of fcveiy Hotel in Paris, and that the
•honor of being a porter might be chara&eriftic
of the nation, they wore a badge which desig
nated this humiliating. privilege.
A great part, perhaps the greater part, bf the
money lenders in liurope are Swiss; in this bu
finefc-they. give way to none, not even to Jews ;
they worlhip wealth as their fummum bonura,
and u point d'argent point de Swiss?' has become
a proverb u«\ivecfally. received, Avarice indi£»
penfijjly creates fear, for a spirit of accumula
tion begets a dread of loss and every miser must
be a coward.
While the Swiss had more honor than wealth
no nation wilhed to tceubje. them ; on one hand
there was a patriotic fpi?il*to be conquered, on
the other there was no money to be gained ;
but when avarice became the deity, and peace
the pricflefs of the altar, whenthey became rich
by becoming submissive, a double motive wat
generated : little or no opposition was 10 be fear
ed, and great gain'was t« fee acquired; this
could not fail to.attradl the attention of the
" great republic"; for this my friends is the ve
ry e(fence of all that atfuates the detestable ty
rants of France, and this ajone has decided the
fate of Switzerland.
It may not be proper to exult in'the misfor
tunes, even of the unworthy, but it is certainly
proper to contemplate in their ruin, the point to
which d fgraceful peace will infallibly lead us;
and you ought to make the rational spirit of
Switzerland a negative example forever.
When you hear men preach about peace,
with caution listen to them, when they talk of
peace at any price remember the late difpatchet
from our envoys. When you hear them extol
your worst enemy, (the French) and abuse your
own government, think of the wretches who
have ruined Holland ; and when you hear them
cry out "flop,the wheel®of government" call
themS-zcifsj tell them to go home, and notdif
grace America by calling it their country,
In calculating the value of peace lake the great
fca'e and not the small one of a fewyiars. War
will be found'ceconomical, whenever peace is
difgraceful. At this moment it would be ceco
nomical to go to war even if evej-y (hilling in
the country were to be spent in support of it;
for if you are to buy peace the price has no other
limits than abjetfl slavery and extreme poverty ;
& when like fire war (hould eeafe for want of fuel,
your peace wiil continue only with your wretch
edness: for as soon as you have acquired any
thing to lose, upon the common principles of
combustion, war will break out again. On the
other hand war will have its period if honorably
supported and this is the only way of gaining a
peace, which by keeping up a military spirit
may become permanent.
The French are formidable in Europe by their
artillery and their horse ; the firft, thanklGod,
they can't well transport hither, and while we
continue an undivided people we could match
them in the other even if they had the utmost fa
cility in navigation. Be bat firm, united and
prepared for war, and peace i 9 certain ; but
weak, dilatory or contradictory meaCures will
as certainly invite the enemy hither: their luc
cefs in Europe, notwithftandiag their military
prowess, is more the effect of thedivifions their
diplomatic,(kill had excited than what their valor
won by fair conqijeft. Let us my friends profit
by the example, join hands and exclaim with
one accord : IVewiU have peace with honor, or
war with energy.
A WORD TO THE WISE.
Just Landed,
AND FOR SAL t BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
No 119, South Front Jlreet.
15 hhds. and a barrels green Coffee
WHERE MAY ALSO BE HAD,
Mountain and Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr. calks
A few calks of fuperif>r old Colemenar wine, fit
for the immediate use of private families j
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods.
CONSI STI NO OF
Humhum*, Tickcrys, Patna Chintz TafTttiei,
Pullicat, Chappa, Madrafs, and Barhar Handker
chiefs.
40 boxes of Spermaceti Candles—and
A few green lilk Umbrellas of large fizen.
EDWARD DUNANT:
may 24 ... *jtCONGRESS.
■On Saturday the House of Represent ati Dei of
the United States, <went into a committee of the
ivbole on the billfrom the Senate more effectually
to proteil the commerce and coajls of the United
States. A motion nuas made by Mr. Macon
to Jlrike out il such," before armed vefTela,/o as
torngke the law general again/I the <vejfels of any
Mtton nvbich Jl)all have committed depredations,
This motion occasioned some debate, and
•was negatived, there being only 22 <votes for it.
the committee then rose, and this motion wns a
gnin renewed in the house, and the yeas and nays
taien upon it, -when it IVas negatived 70 to 10.
TheJ motion icas then put on the b'UPs pafing to a
third reading, upon uuhicb the yeas and nays
mere taken, and carried 51 to 39. The Speaker
then put the usual quejlion, " When lliall this
bill have its third reading ?" "Which ivas an-
Jkvered by Monday and to-d»y (Saturday J.
Some debate took place on the motion for the mojl
dijiattt day, 'which being negatived 49 to 41, /be
bill <uras ordered to he read a third ti/ne immedi
ately. It was read accordingly, and faffed.
The Teas and Nays upon the faffing tuere las fol
low :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Mel(js. Hofmer,
Bjier, I mlay,
Bartletf, Kittera,
Bayard, Lyman,
Brooks, Machir,
Bullock, Matthews,
Champlin, Morgan,
Chapman, . Morris,
Cochran, Otis^
Coit, J. Parker,
Craik, Reed,
Dana, Schureinan,
Dennis, ' Sewall,
Dent, Shepard,
Edlijpnd, Sinnickfon,
Evans, Sitgreaves,
A. Foster, N. Smith,
D. Folter, Thatcher,
J. Freeman, Thomas,
Glen, Thomson,
Goodrich, Tillinghafl,
Cricoid, Van Aten,
Grove, Wadlworth,
Harper, J.Williams,
Hartley, jo.
Mind man,
N A Y S.
Meflrs. BaWwin, MefTrs. Holmes,
Bard, Jones,
Bertton, Locke,
Blount, Lyon, '
Brent, Macon,
Bfyan, M'Clenachan,
Burgess, M'Dowell,
W. C.Claiborne Milledge,
T. Claiborne, New,
Clopton, W. Smith,
Davis, Sprigg,
Dawfon, Stanford,
Elmendorf, Sumter,
Fowler, A. Trigg,
Gallatin, J. Trigg,
Gillelpie, V. Cortlandt,
Gregg, Varnum,
Hanna, Venable,
Harrifon, R. Williams
i Havens, 40.
Heifter,
[The minority on thitoeeiSon was fitted at JC
in a few of Saturday's Gazette ]
from Paris Pdptrs ty the trig Amiable Ma
tilda.
Particulars of "the late
DISTURBANCES AT ROME.
PARIS, March 28.
We havr hitherto had but very uncertain
accounts relative tothe late troubles at Rome
and of the nature of the division said to ex
jrt amflng the French troops in that city.-
The following may be relied on as a correct
ftatemeut of the affair ;
ROME, MARCH 4.
A few days after the arrival of General
Maffena, some officers of the etat major took
from thi churches and palaces, a considera
ble quantity of valuable articles ; and, it is
.said, the houses of several rich individuals
were not (pared. Besides, the contributions
had beert levied to a sum fufficiently large,
viz, 30 mil ions of livres, independent of
the expences f>r the support of the army.
A gener.il cry was raised at Rome against
exatlions, and the French officers
were not the lad to disapprove of these rigo
rous mepfures. A great nuitiber «f them
afiembled, in the church of the Rotunda,
(the Pantheon) and there drew up an ad
dress to the commander in chief, of which
the following is an extraft.
'■ The rapid march of the army of Italy
toward Rocie, to avenge the assassination of
General Duph.'t, proves, that Frenchmen
ire ready to facrifice every thing to insure
the liberty and honour of their country, but
some individuals, under au'hority have en
tered the richest honfesin this city ; and ta
ken from thence the mod valuable effefl3
without giving any receipts.
" We therefore, demand of you that the
goods taken under different pretexts, from
the houses and churchesbelonging to foreign
powers with whom we are at peace, be im
mediately restored, and that thefc places be
put in a situation they were previous to our
entrance into Rome. Besides the balance
of our pay which we now claim, we perQft
ia demanding vengeance for the robberies
which have been committed in Rome by our
oraduati, and thedevaftating and corrup
ted adminiitration who, in the midst of un
bridled luxury, are night and day plunged
in d. bauchery. You, citizen general, have
the authority in your own hands, and it reds
with you to make use of it againlt the bri
gands who we again repeat it, dishonor us."
This circumltance occasioned, as might
be expefted, a great agitation in the French
garrison, which was toon divided into two
■parties, the one attaching itfclf to the offi
cers who signed the declaration, the other
rep*obating the aft as highly imprudent.—
Several violent fkirmilfees ensued and some
blood wasfpilt ; at length however, the of
ficers' party got the better.
But the day after, the people affetnbled
in a croud in the Tranftiberian quarter, and
aimed with fufils, swords and stilettoes, mas
sacred every Frenchman they met, as well
as several »f the inhabitants known to be at
tached to democratic principles. So great
was thtir fury, that they spared neither the
v.ives or childrtH of th»fe p rfons. The
French upon this, united and marched a
gaintl the insurgents ; a warm aftion ensued
I >'nd the loss on both tries >7Sj very donfider- '
| able ; however the French at length, got
the advantage and dispersed the insurgents;
several of the latter were taken and put to
death on the spot. This infurreftion had
several ramifications. The fame day, the
inhabitants of Valletri, Albatio, Marino,
and Ca'lellcr, revolted and after having k l
cd numbers of Frenchmen, marched owards
Rome to aid the Tranftiberians. A body
of troops which were fetit against them, met
them on the 37th. A mod obftinatc and
bloody battle was the csnfequetice, in which
after great lofi the infurgeut3 were routed.
The French pursued them into their coun
try, which they completely r ivaged and put
to the sword every oue whom they found
with arms.
But, previous to this, on the 25th. the
officers of the French army had written to
the citizens of Rome in thefc words :
" Citizens, the vigorous refutation which
we yesterday took as well to faveour own
honor as to puniflithe robbers wh'i hadwifh
ed to tarnilh it, ought to have convincedyou
that the French army is not capable of the
robberies committed is your city, bat that
the authors of them are only ia few indivi
duals whom we hold in abhorrence."
" To atta n the .end which, we propose,
that is to punilh rhe guilty, already pointed
out by the public voice, we invite you, im
mediately to come and declare at the Ro
tunda, the quantity of money, furniture,
valuable effefts or horses, which have been
<aken from you, whether with, or withont
receipts. You need not fear any thing j
your declaration will punilh the guilty. The
army will protcft you, which is certainly
better than the protedlion of a band of rob
bers, who will sooner or later be punilhed
You are not obliged to give more than is le
gally demanded, and that «nly on the re
ceipts of persons properly authorised. We
wifhto give you libej-ty, but we do not wish
to fee you pillaged."
Seveial proclamations have been since
publilhed bsth by General Dagelmann and
the Consuls ; and tranquillity is restored for
the present, at least in appearance.
The difcontent3 of the officers are some-
appeafed by the discharge of the pay
due them. As they appsared much incen
sed against general Maffena, he has deter
mined to retire to Ancona. The two par
ties have ferit expresses to the Directory fto
inform it of the affair, and stating their ref
peftive griefs. The restitution of the effefts
takea from the Churches and inhabitants
has not yet taken place, although it was
formally promised ou the demand of the dis
contented officers
PARIS, March '27.
The primary aftemblics of Paris advance but Slow
ly in their operations. The ele&ors already known
I are Cambaceres and Geniffieux, ex-conventionals,
Bianfac, ex-constituent; M»gendie«, ex-ad mini ftra
tor ; RaifTon, Antoncf.e, Cberin, Gobier, Macelin,
Pons, Perdrix, Follopc, Real, Xavier, Andoin,
Maignet, Lamaigniere, Cilleran, Caigoard, Editor
of L'Ami de la Patrie; TiflcM, ex-fecreUrv to Sottin.
In moll of the primary afTembljes of Verfaillei,
those who entitle themselves exclusive patriots have
Had a schism. The journal des homuks librf.s,
in giving an account of this faft, fays, the royalists
and terrorida are each driving with their uiraoft
mights
FLORENCE, March 6.
Our Hotels are filled with strangers who flock from
Rome. We have here several prelates, among whom
are cardinals Duguaoi, Maury, Zalada and Rinuaini.
The A bbe Maury who was forced to quit Sienna »s
also obliged to leave Florence and Tufcany, notwith
standing the remonstrances he has ma4e to the fecre
taryof state and the secrecy which he wifhea to
preserve, being announced as the nephew of a Jacob
Pignatcllt.
1 ius VI. remained 4 days at Sienna, in the convent
of Auguftin's, he appeared tranqnil and resigned to
his fate. He keeps ikcoc. And the orders given
to render him no honors have been rigorously observ
ed. He has been forced to quit that city.
It is said his holiness will not be able to find an
asylum any where, unlefsat Malta or in America.
PARIS, 6 Germinal, (2.6 th March.)
We have announced that the Council ef
Ancients of the Cisalpine Republic had re
jected the treaty of alliance and commerce
whch itsplenipotentiariesbad concluded with
the French Republic. We are allured, that
this news is not only true, but the Executive
Qire&oYy of France, indignantat thisrefufal,
has pa(Ted a severe degree, by which, after da
ting that all the ter tory of hat Republic
has been conquered by thearmies of France,
and that the independence granted to them,
was cond'tioned on a treaty of alliance and
commerce, of which the ratification haabeen
prcfented by fomeintriguingperfons,bougiu
or bribed by their enemies, decree,
ill, A contribution shall be raised for the
support of the French troops in Italy.
2d. The citizens, to the number of 21,
(comprehending there in the Prelident ap
pointtd by the General in chief to the Di
rectory )fhallbe suspended from all thiri func
tions, and immediately arretted. *
It is thought that the motives which led the
C until of Ancients of the Cisalpine legisla
tive body to reje& the treaty are, firft the ar
ticle obliging them to furnifh, for an unlimi
ted timei 18 millions for thefupport of 25,000
French troops —2d, That which obliges them
to fortify at their experce and under the direc
tion of French engineers, places destined to
remain always in the power of ;:arrifons,
comp fed so the greater part, of French
troops- 3, Thellipulation of lubmitting the
Cisalpine army to commanded
by French generals.
New Tea Warehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
G P POSIT V POST-OFFICE.
THE Subscriber rcfpe&'ully acquaintsherfriends
and the public, that ftie has opened a Store for
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Bolton and Philadelphia, (asunder) and
/which fee is determined to fell or reasonable terms.
It will be her conllant endeavour to give fcusta&ion
to thoft; who please to favor her with their cußom
Country Oorcswill fiad it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as ftie can at a moment's notice aflort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit ou approved notes.
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea— Also, Coffee and Loaf
' Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
j april 12 s&th.6w
<3sa3me*
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Mat 28.
u-
Extrafi of a letter from Mr. Fenwick, at
Bourdeaux, dated Aptil 2, to a refpefta
ble mercantilehoufe in this city.
There is no change in the situation of
affairs relative to America. Two of dur
Envoys are about quitting Paris, Mr. Pinck
ney and Mr. MarlhalL
By Mr. Vinept Low, who arrived from
Cape Heslopen yesterday afternoon, we have
received the melancholy news of the loss of
His Britannic Maje'.ty'sfl iop of war Braak.
Captain Drew, which overset in Old Kiln
Roads about four oMock lad Friday afrer
noor.—(he wa at the time under the main
sail and reefed topfaih, jullabotit tocaft an
chor, a mile from the light-house, her boat
along fide waiting /or the captain, who in
tended to go on (hore at Lewes Town : a
sudden flaw of wind laid her down on her
beam ends ; (he immediately filled and went
down, with Cap'aia Drew, his Lieutenant,
and 38 Officers Seamen and Marines ! The
reft of the ship's company about 25, includ
ing the boatswain, escaped in the boats, and
several were taken up by a pilot boat.
The Braak parted with the fleet off the
western islands in chafe of a Orange (ail, and
was unable to rejoin the convoy ; about 25
days ago (he fell in with and captured a Spa*
nifh (hip from La Plata bound to Spain, with
I a very valuable cargo, confiding of 200 tons
of copper in bats, a quantity of cocoa, &c.
the prize ii arrived in the Delaware. 12 of
the prisoners were loft in the (looprof war.
The unfortunate Captain Drew was bro.
ther to Captain Drew of the Cerberus fri
gate, who was drowned in Plymouth Sound
on the 15th of January lalt.
communications.
It would be an endless" labor to Rotice all tht
lies and mifrsprefentations that crowd the
of Bache's paper. In the Aurora of this morning,
he pretends to account for tlfe uniformity of the
fenrimentt exprefied by tile miniltcrsof religion
on the kte faft day, by suggesting that they were
prompted to do this, by " circulars iflucd some
weeks before from * certain public office to the fe
le& reverend throughout the union." The office
alluded to certainly is the Department of State ;
and the fails wer< (imply these—Proclamations
were printed for the information of all the clergy
in the United States: they were formed into pack
ets and addrefied to the marihats, and to facilitate
their diilribution by the aid of .the public mails,
they wore separately folded and packed up st the
Department of State, but without the name of
one clergyman fupufcribed, it being left to the
marihal t» add to the fupsrfcription of Reverend
the name of each minister in bis diftriA.
One circumstance mentioned by Bache, in the
fame paragraph is defervingiof attention. He
fays that, " rancorous fulminatioas and party in
vectives issued from mod of the pulpits." That
the minister, of the christian religion (hould ex
press an honed indignation against a p«*ple who
proscribe that religion and with it allfullice aid
morality, and were become rapacioos plunderers,
ambitious and unfeeling tyrants, is nothing strange:
but that thisjufl indignation ihould have been ex
pressed " from mod of the pulpits" in the Union,
as affcrted by Bache, proves that Mod of the clergy
in the United States, and thence we may fairly
conclude mod of the people t detest the conduit of
the French, and are ready to oppose their attempts
to controul our government, dedroy our indepen
dence, aid make us their tributary fiavei.
Several Volunteer Companies arc now
formingin this city. The Troops of Horse
have increased their numbers. M'Pherfon's
Bl.ies are organizing thcmfelves anew, and
it is contemplated to form the eftabli(hment
upon a much broader foundation than that
upon which it has hitherto rested. A conl
pany of Grenadiers has liKewise been eftab
li(hed—it at present consists of between thir
ty »nd/orty members : its complement will
be sixty-sour, exclusive of .the officeis. A
committee has been appuintod to offerto the
President the services of the corps, and res
peflfullyto request him tocommiflion Mjor
Thomas L.Moore, astheCaptain.Mr.Jofeph
Higbee as the First Lieutenant, and Mr.
Joshua Wallace as second lieutenant. Tie
two firft of these gentlemen were a&ive and
zealous officers in our revolutionary war a-d
have been since as remarkable for their ref
peftability as citizens, as they were for their
gallantry as soldiers. The propriety ofform
ing a company of this kind must be obvious
to all. In Europe, to every battallion there
is affixed a corps of Grenadiers. An army
has a much more advantageous appearance
when men of the fame height are placed to
gether.
It is particularly desirable that persons of
a proper height for a Grenadier co ps,
(hould forthwith enrol their names in this
company. Thej can no where dfe appear
to such advantage, as in this their appro
priate sphere. The obvious propriety of
the suggestion will doubtless be admitted as
a fufficient excuse for those who, being al
ready members of others corps, and potter
ing theflaturaj qualifications of Grenadiers,
may be difpt;feci to exchange their situation.
Notice has already been given in the
public papers, that a committee is appointed
to receive the applications of perions de
!irou6 of enrolling theinfelves. Let the
youthful signers of the late address to the
President, now come forward and join some
of the companies ; thus prove that as they
have been the firft to make profeffion the
moll: bold and determined, they will be the
ljft to desert them ; let them tecolledt that
th y have given a solemn pledge of their
readiness, at the call of their country, to aft
with all the exertion of which they are ca
paple. Their country does new call for
their afiiftance, and Congress has prescribed
the mode in which it /hall be rendered, by
authorizing the President to accept their
services as volunteers. Let them brir:g to
view the melancholy fate of Switzerland,
The Swtfs fought with the molt heroic
bravery. Their youth have immortalized
their fame, by their magnanimous refinance
to the infernal hordes of savage barbarians
who have dcfolated their territory; but un
provided with arms, and unprepared for de
fence, they have fallen a useless faerifice to
their liberty and indpendtnee. The va
lour of our youth will Hand them in <
as little (lead, if they are not properly I
armed and difciplt'ned. Before they cau '
procure arms and become thoroughly ac- J
quainted with milita'y e«ercifes a consider- I
able time must neceff.rily elapse. How 1
Coon we may all be comptlled to fight pro J
ans at focis God only knows, in the mean
time we ought topoint ourendeavours whol- '
Iy to putting ourfclves in a formidable state f
of defence. 1
a
ANSWER
Of the President of the United States, to the t
address from New bu- - y. I
the Inhabitants of the To-zvn of Newbury in
the State of Massachusetts. 1
GENTLEMEN, ~ I
The addref- unanimously voted at your legal
Town meeting, has been transmitted by your
Sele<St-Men and Town Clerk and presented to
me by your, representative in Congress Mr. t
BartUtt. 1
The entire confidence vnu possess in thewif- j
dom, integrity and patnetifm of the government,
the approbation you avow of the steps whiuh (
have been tak«n to adjust out differences with <
the Erench republic, are very fatisfaflory.
The affonirtiment you manifeft, that the ad
vances that have been made to tbe French gov- 1
ernment, have been repelled with contempt, is 1
very natural. That we must purchase a right
of being heard with a tribute, and humiliating 1
conceflions derogatory to the fovercignty and 1
independance of the United States pafies all <
cumprehenfisn.
'I hat you will not complain «f the loss of the I
blessings of peace, and neutrality, if it has a !
tendency to secure yaur better m'erefts, that re
lying on the wisdom and patriotism of each
branch of your government you folemnty pledge '
y»ur lives and fortunes t«fupp«rt the measures
the President and Cpngrefs (hall judge nscelTary '
to secure and preserve the-happipefs, dignity and <
interest of the United State*, are declarations <
which are as honorable to you as they are encou
raging to the government. 1
JOHN ADAMS. <
Philadelphia, May lyth, 1798. ■
Ext raft from a country paper.
" The unco.nfcionable swindlers would |
extort from us not less thai? thirty-three mil- .
liom of dollars. Ah ! the thieves. If they ,
knew how hard our ancestors, and we our- (
selves, have toiled in this wilderness, for the .
little we pofiefs, it would give them a f<int ,
idea of the flruggle genuine freemen will .
make to secure their money, and their
country's honsr, from the fsrdid and con
taminating gripe of fantaftic fans-culottes,
habited in the shabby garb of French .
liberty." - (
1 I
ERRATUM I
In the piece signed JXefentment, in Saturday's
Gazette, 10th line from the top, for " caluini
nous," read calumnious.
The following is an exafl copy tf the bill puffed
faffed in the House of Representatives of the
United States on Saturday lafl.
AN ACT, '
More effeftually to protest the Commerce
_ and Coasts of the United States.
WHEREAS armed vessels, failing un
der authority, or pretence of autho
rity, from the Republic of France, have
committed depredations on the commerce of :
the United States, and have recently cap
tured the vessels and property of citizens
thereof, on and near the coasts, in violation
of the law of nations, and treaties between
the United States and the French Nation *
Therefore,
Sefction 1. BE it enacted by the Senate |
and House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congrtfs aQembled, ,
That it (hall be lawful for the President of
the United States, and he is hereby authoriz
ed to inftruft and direst the commanders of
the armed vessels belonging to the United '
States, to seize, take and bring into any •
port of the United S ates, to be proceeded
ajainft according to the laws of nations, any
such armed vcfle', which (hall have commit- 1
ted, »r which (hall be found hovering 0/1 the
coasts of the United States, for the purpose
of committing depredations on the vessels
belonging to citizens thereof, and alfq to
retake any (hip or vessel. of any citizen or
citizens of the United States, which may
have been captured by any fach armed ves
sel.
By a decree of the Diredlory of 29 Veh
tofe, the citizens Victor Hugues and Lebas,
appointed by the decree of 6 Pluviofe, 4th 1
year, agents 01 the Executive Dire&ory to
the Windward Islands, have again been nam
ed to the fame office for the term of e ghteen
months, reckoning from the day on which
they shall receive the present decree.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The (hip Manchester, the Clothier,
and Nancy, have arrived at the fort, These
(hips parted from the St. Albans man of war, j
with to fail in company, oa Friday (leering
for New York.
Thefl op Mackenzie, Halliburton, frotn 1
the Havan a, and schooner Betsey Hollon,
from Jamaica, are at the fort. ;
New-Ttrk, May 25 . .
ARRIVED, days
Ship Suffolk, Huffey, Isle of May 29 (
Schr. Adventure, Pigof, Korfolk 40 hours (
Si»#p Ruby, Finley, St. Domingo 2 Q i
-«airrr*=s==- - (
By this day's Mail. J
NEW YORK, May 26.*
A letter from New-London, dated the '
23d inft. to a gentleman in this city, fays, j i
" The Adriana, of Philadelphia, ancho- '
red at the mouth of New-London harbour '[
yesterday. She left the fleet from England !
8 days since." I
BOSTON, May ;8. "1
CharUflcH, May i, 1798. i :
" Mr. D . W.—Sir, 1
#t This is to rrq-.ieii you not tc snip any jh nt» mo(fc 1
vu til you fee me. My icaforis the French priva- !
ucrifwarip upon our coast, and ta!ic a'moft every 1
tl ing ; —They have boaidcd thf packets betwe«n (hit
jnd Sava&r.ah feveial tfaics. Ycurs, &c, E, T." (
Two of tfie enemy's privateers have lately beco car*
rifd into Halifax.
:o
I A letter frOr* a mailer ®f a velfcl, at BartftoWneW
n °atcd April 26, x;jjß, v fays " This port has bee*
y b'ooktcLup by boats "fcoin St. Martins for upwaids
TJ of thicfe week?, and'out of "thirty-four fiil of Amer
ican velfe'i that have appeared before this port, I arrt
? * the only one that has got in ; the remainder have
been taken, and fern to St. Martins, condemned, and
v fold. It is of no confcquence vyhere you are bound*
3 nr Where Irom, as a new decree has parted at GuacTa
loupe to take all American vcflrls bound to or from
II 'he Well-Indies ; and citizen HucuEsfays he wil
I- imprison all the Americans at Guadaloupe, if con
e grefs give permifllon toarrn. They have from three
to five boats armed «fF here all the time, waiting sos
arrivals, and for vefiels bound to the United States.''
The fleet under Earl St. Vincents, has captures!
e three rich Manilla (hips. One was taken by capt*
Halloweli, w the Swifffure.
n Barthelemy is dying of chagrin at Cayenne. Gen.
Pichegrti fuppoits his exile with spirit and philoso
phy.
il
r KINGSTON, April 19.
o We understand the gentlemen of the second
•. troop of Kinglton Horse, belonging to colonel
Vick's regiment, have fubferibed upwards of
p. 5001. in aid of government,
it. A convoy, w<# understand, has been fixed to
h fail regularly on the 10th of every month from
h Great-Britain for the Wefl-lndies.
April 23*
Saturday arrived the Spanish Xebeque Santa
•- Reta, a prize to the Letter of Marque fhtp BeU
s lona. capt Bruer, of Glasgow.
t She is from the Spanifli Main bound to Cadi2 f
g with a cargo of cocoi, was captured off Porto
d Rico yesterday fe'anight, and mounts 10 guns
11 with 30 men.
Two of the crew of the-Hermion? frigate*
e (father and son) were dtfeovered on beard the
a Santa Reta, and are novr-in irons.
April sr.
h A numerous and moil refpedUbfe meeting of
e the inhabitants of Spanish Town took place on
e Monday last, for the purpose of ai iiflg the mo
/ ther country in the present aidUou s> ftrugg'fi
d againfi an implacable enemy, when a furn ex
is ceeding 60001. was immediately subscribed.
1- Yesterday evening arrived his majelty's Pack
et-boat Prmcefs Charlotte, capt. Mud-e, in 39
days from Falmouth.
03- THE owners and co iigwees of
goods on board the Adriana from London
y to this place and now arrived at New-York,
" are particulorly rtqueftcd to meet this ev-
Y ening at 8 o'clock at the Coff e House, to
confidcr of the expediency of applying to
e government for convoying in faiety into
' this port a cargo worth nearly 100,000
" pounds sterling.
r May 28.
, THE YOUNG MEN, who pledged them*
' selves to the President, will take notice, that the
a Committee will wait this evening' (oniyj at thf
Cify Tavern from 6 till 9 o'clock, to receive the
signatures #f those who wiih to join themfclves to
Macpherfon's Blues.
£jT The xft Troop of Philadelphia Cavalry
will meet o» the Parade in uniform, next TIiUHS
DAY at 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
£3* The ad Troop of Phi ade!phia Cavalry will
)e parado on THURSDAY next, at the Upper Ferry
on Schvylkill, at 3 o'clock P. M. The trooper •
are requested to be punctual in their attendance,'
e and pay striA attention to be in complete uniform.
ABRAHAM SINGER, capt.
VOl UNTEiiR GRSENS.
0* The troop will parade on THURSDAY
e next, at J o'clock P. M. in Walnst street, neaf
if Schuylkill, in complete uniform ; the gentlemen
will be pun&ual. JOHN MORRELL, capt.
10
n Macpherfon's Blues.
n A adjourned meeting of the Blues will be
_ held at the house of Mr. Dunwoody* on
Monday next at 6 o'clock r. m. Th« gentle
e men composing the fame are deflred to he punc
tual in their attendance, as the committee ap-
pointed at the last meeting will then make their
l > report. By Order,
'( Richard Rert/haw, Junr. Scc'y.
may 24
f The Ship Belvidrre, if not fold or Char-'
d tered before Wcsdnefday n xt, will take freight for
y London.
d The Germantown & Reading"
y Turnpike Road
THE Commillioners appointed hy the a<fl of
General Afiembly, entitled. "an a<ll to
e enable the Governor of this tommonweMih to
6 incorporate a company for making an artificial
0 road from the city of Philadelphia through Ger
r mantown &c. Give Notice, that the books are
now opened at the 1 City Hall for the purpose of
1 receiving under the said aiil agret
■" able to their former advertisement artd will be.
continued open from the hours of ten in the
- morning till two in the afternoon on the 19th
f and toth instant.
:1 City-Hall, Monday \
0 lith Afay, 17.8 { Jt
. This Day <wiU be Publi/bed,
By PITER. FORCUfINE,
b A POEM,
CALLED,
FRENCH ARROGANCE;
OR,
" The Cat Let out of the Bag
POETICAL DIALOGUE
Between the AMERICAN ENVOYS,
> And X. Y. Z. and the LADY.
e may 28. n
By virtue of a deo.ee.of the nono able the iagti com t,
y of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fc.i
at Public Sale, on tH? premises, on Monday, the
ssih of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
n HAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
1, J. No. $3, aad part of No. 54, late s tbe piooetty
of Nicholas bluby, merchant of this city, fituatrd 011
Thames-rtreet, in that part of Baltimore ciiy', called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square parches, with all
s the buildings and improvements thereon. There arc
9 ereftcd on this valuable property, several large and
8 commodious bruk Warehouses, capable of corttain-
G ing Irom 15 to 20,c#0 barrels of Hoof, with a frame
shed adjourning iherrto. fufficitntly capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in perlett lafety
from the weather. From this well-known
is extended into the deepest watec in this harbo'.an
extenfiveand well confttsfted wharf,hounding on the
water 6co feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing fhipsof any burthen at the lowest tides. Fr< m
e the many advantages this propoity is kr.owrt to poffcls,
j it is esteemed equal if 1 ot fu peri or, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and must be a de
r ,firableob eft to those inclined to puichafe so valuable
. an eflate. It is unnfcefTary to fay more fue
jefti, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of ricwiing the pre miles , previous to the
I day of fa!e.
■"•j The tcims on which the above property is fold,
j are, that the parchalcr (hill give approved r.ego iable
notes, with Itcurtty to tbe ttuftee fur the payment of
ore half the purchase money with intcreft, withih
three months, and the rcfidue with intereli, vtiihin
iix months trom the day of fnle.
i v , SAMUEL MOALE.
j may *B. dt2^tbj«."Madras and Ventapauhrti
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarties,
the newest and moil approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jutt received,
AN» FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller Id Ca.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18,
IF Mr. Charles William Klemekc>
Formerly of London, and who left England for
feme part of the United States of America, in j
the year 179*6, be living, and will appty person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to MefTrs. ffane Hizlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to Ms advantage. Any information refpe£\-
ing the said Mr. Charles William
would be thankfully received.
may 19 W
~FOR SALE.
A neat Country House,
THREE and a half mil<fa from the city, on
the Wiflahicon road, wrth seventeen and a
half, acre* of land, half in orchard and half in
grass. Apply to Edward Bonsall & Co.
iri Dock-street, or to the subscriber at Mount
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the preraife*
Jonathan IVJliams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
will not be for Idle during the ieaion.
may 19 $* J
Very Great Bargains,
CO.NSIS I'INGof Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
puichafe of Enquire of
7 homas Randall,
No. 88 Sfruce-Jlreet.
may 17 §_
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—er
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and wh eh for neatness
exa&itude of colouring cannot be furpafled in
this city.
FLAGS arft> DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, on the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits, OrnamentalPamtings, Signs,
fire buckets, &c. accompliChed in that fiiperb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rivtcr yledgas
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hij friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
" N~O TICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
Gullagitr, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to request the public j
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits ol «ach by a comparison of
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of established artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that bufinek which
their pfofeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opi; ion must
govern, we flatter outi"elve6 that the workexecut- ,
cd by us will convince them of our great fuperio- 1
rity over Mr. Gullager in every Uranch of por- ;
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef- .
ihy of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attcntian will be paid toths
felf-flatterirg advertisements of Mr G. j
Any person wiihing a supply .of FL AGS and j
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Korris' Court, or Henry Frailey, Germax
town. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Paintitig Rooms y
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefaut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAtNTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and mallerly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniftied with all poftible dispatch, on themofl
teafonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar toG.R.)
but in a workman iike manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of hi? profeflion.
Mr. Gullacer, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeffional talents, pun&ualitr, and reafdn
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wiilpleafc to cull at hisPaint
og Rooms, §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a ma(ierly manner, will no
doubt feel thetofelves obliged for the kind cau ion
given ,f Ruttef and Co. not to trull felf
flarfering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thei'poil
ing of good silks by G ofge Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contra 3ing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germant6wn may 10.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of .April, a Negro
Man, named Gl«fgoiv t perhaps he rtiay pass
by the name bf Ghfgoxo Lee, or may change his
name ; he is a">out thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has afcar in the upper part of his un
der lip, a fmallpart being bitten out between the
midd'e and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be- n very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a stout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at- a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman ol
Mr. Joihua this county. Itisfuppofed
they arc gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfetiber shall get him again, Ihall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
State of Maryland, ")
So®*erfet County, april 10*3 tnav 4 —4w
For kale,
A Farm and Covn'tdy Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norrij-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 ac es ot land, 50
ot which are woodland, aboiw of meadow, and
the reft arable land. The houfc and garden whitfh is
large and well paled, ftard in the molt ple«fant fili
ation, commanding a view of iho river, anifland
which isoppofite. and the village ot Norris to * n
There is a lhad filhery belonging to the place
quire in Philadelphia, No; North Third Street,
ci on the prcolifci.
April 16 i2Wlf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT;
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance ot the Aof Cengfcfs palfcd on the sixth day of July one tlioufand seven hundredand
niriety-fcven, entitled " An laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ail palled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and nkiety-feveH, entitled
" An AiSt to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the tiutiej imposed by the Act enti
tled " An Ait laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July enfming, the several Stamped Dutiu hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or fteet or piece of Paper, upon which Ihall be
written or printed any or either of the inllruments or writingslollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... 5
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvoeate or Prodtor, in any Court of the
United States, - - - 10
Provided, that a Certlficite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
diityaforelaid, be a fufficient admiffiw in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or amhorityof the United States
(except for laads'granled tor military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any filch grant or letters patent, (ex*
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 1
Any Charter-Party, Bottrmry, or Refpondentia Bond, ~ I
Any Receipt or dif. harge for or o» accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or fl
itter tettamentary infiruinent, or for any (hare or p«rt of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force ol any ftatutc of diftributians, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the yrfon decease*, the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - " 35
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars aits
Ihall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... jo
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of 1
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, oh any (hip, vefiel or
goods insured from one diftridt to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ,5
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, Other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular state, - 50
Any Bond, bill (ingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognisance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contracSt, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefptftively, ......
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If abo« one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding o*e thouland dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
PrtviJcd, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes fball be fubjedl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforel'aid—viz. - -
If ahove twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding fiVfe hundred dollat s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,' ao
If above one thousand dollars, .... 30
Any Nates issued bv the banks now established, or that may hereafter be elt'ab
liihed withi* the United States, other than the not»s of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to at annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpedlively, according to
the following scale. - - - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars; and not exceeding one hundred dolkrs, 50
Gn aH notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - a
Any Protcfl or other Notarial adt, - - - - 15
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, oV to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for itiilutry services
performed in the late war, - - t]
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cufloms or duties, for lets than
five hundred dollars, - - - T
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to b£ exported,
H' from one diflriiSt to another dlftridl of the United Statts, riot b«in£ in the
fame State, - - - - le
if from the United Statts to any foreign pVii-t or place, - -
Any Invemtiry or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effedls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cafe* of goods and chattels diflrained for
*nt or taxes, and goods taken in virtue bf arty legal process by any officer,) to
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, «f a share in the Bank of
the United States, or of aty State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and Eot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one huhdred dollars, - - - , ij
Tf undtr twenty dollars, at the rate of ten ceiitj for one hundred dollars.
M.
The dutiesaforetaiJ will be'colledted and received by the Supervisors, Infpedtors aud othfcr Officcrt
of Infpeitien, in the several Diflriib, Surveys and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
persons as (liall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Dillrids for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the several Dillridts will, prior to the firft day of July tnfuing, and as soon as
niay be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
damped vellum, parchment and paper r>.a\ at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rales prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpedtor, Officer of Infpeiftion,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by tie Supervisors of Diflriets
GIVEN nndir my HaUd, at Philadelphia
tbtdhj and year •iovementinrted.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Trtafiry.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THA r by an a<f\ of Congrtfs palled 011 the
isth day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a6i pafled on the 6th day of July 1797* en
titled "An adt laying duties on stamped v'el
•• lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of fevtn artd CfnC hilf
per Centum, will be allowed by
or Infpeflors refperdlively, to any perftjn'B other
than Officers of the Revenue, who tt\ay pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellom, Parchment or Paper* upon
whieh the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each Iftin of Parch
mertf, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kiw of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furni!>-
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any letter quantity.
Given under my bandy at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir abovementioved.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
, Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And pofleffion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 feet front, a»d 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftibles.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 Sovth Third ftrect.
April 2. §
" Just published,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE}
(Price 25 Cents)
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECUTtFE,
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figjiature of
SCIPIO,
Tn tvhicb the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to tbe French Fa&ion in this Country, as its Source,
end the Motfoci tit QppojSHln, fcV.
Jufl Publiftied,
By W. YOUNG, bookseller, Second-flreet,
the comer of Chcfnut street,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWTOtt,
LONDON.'
A new edition, in 9 vols price 7$ dols. neat
ly bound, containing lettdri of Ortiicfron 9«td
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of ecclefiafhcal his
tory, sermons, mcfliah, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and the life of Eliza Cunningham.—
Each of these parts may be had and
such as have been flipped with W. Young's
edition in 6 vols, may, by speedy application, be
furnifhed with the 7th, 9th and 9th vbli. at
dols.
jilfoy lately Publijhed.
Baxter's Saint s Reit, atyridgtd by Faw- dais.
cett, izmo at 1
Beveridge'sprivate thoughts, z parts nmo 75
Christian (the) Parent, nmo 50
ChrjftiaN world unmalked, do 62$
Dickenfon's (of New-Jersey) familiar
letters, nmo f 87^
Doddrige's rife and progress, ißmo 50 a (ti\
1 sermons on education, izrho 44
do 62^
——«>n regeneration, ißmo 814
Davies sermons 1 -2 vols Bvo 4
Home's ewfitoentary on the book of
Psalms, 2 *s
ditto 2 vols Bvo 250
a work highly admired by all who have
bad the advantage of peruftng it.
Hervey Afpafio vindicated, famo 75
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo i
Walker's sermons, with Biair's life of
the author, 1 vols Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
University of Oxford, Bvo I 50
Wyriperfle on the true and eternal God
head of our Lord Jesus Christ, jo a 68
Sirred Biography, or the history of the
Patriarchs, by H. Htonter, 3 vols Bvo 6
A large aflortment of bible*., in folio, quarto,
izmo and pocket,- at various prices.
A large allowance to wholei'ale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
may 17 aawjw
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuftomcd to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two year?. For fu- ther parti
culars, apply st the office zi this Gaattte.
m'rfy 11. §
Thd! following Certificated of
'FUNDED DEBT Of THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of tfce trcafury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Venn, Captain Jofiah, Which hath bedn captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. 8?. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Oiddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June a, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
802r. if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. jjo. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July ro, 1797. No
10199.
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 No.
11820.
For the renewal as the above Certificates, ap
plication is iritended to be made at the fiid office of
jhe Treasury of the United Status,—- and all pet
fobs concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof UwitedStates in
then&tne of William l)/lanning,of Ormfby, couri
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five Ihares each, dated January r, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
ancl all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice»
JN. FAUGH AN,
Philadelphia, may 4. £6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, standing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlcfcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No.sijo—l3o66 to
I 3°7S' ten (hares—No. 214Q —1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. 2147 —H471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
(hp William Pern, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be 101 l ; for the re
neWal of which, application will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may i *d6w
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene ' ounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and fen Mile Ran.
Tbefe \ and* are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years
five (hillings per a re ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370" acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them Were surveyed in 1783. The tra<sl
is between the Ohio and Monongahela very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of \T*(ftin£ton, from 14 to 16 from the
vilUg"? of Greentfburgh arid Wheeling.
Oil payment of one loiirth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the printer,
fcpril 2t. 5
TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, tfe* riortherri
bounds of PennsylVania aritl the Sufquehanna
now or late iVi the townships of Hailidcn aftd
Warren add county of Warren.
These Lands, f-om their quality and situatiOn,
are a very riefirable ohjeA for any man who means
to inveft'his mbriev *0 advan'age
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit wi!l e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. $
JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Y ung, coiner of Secorid
jnd Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey rlB High-street
T. Dobfon,» 41 South Second-flreet and the
Bookfellefs generally,
(Price 5-jyths of a Dollar )
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potrrif historic and deforiptive t
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the furronnding ProfpeA— Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the biltoric
Mufe—FiAii.n discarded—Dedication to Wafli
ington—The A&i'ott ope»>atthe Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
-—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren— Perfanificatirin of Fortune and Fairie—
Waftiingron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambri !ge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Uillory of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Br it iHi Array—lts Departure—'Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Sokhe»—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress Of Free
dom throughout the WOrld.
march 30. §
Balkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fins rich MeadoW, (tft* rdlfcleriteOf the fate
Eurl of Sterling). It may becoriveriiently dixlded
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
EaU by the river Pafaick.
l hr* are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square o! nearly acreS—"tfie d welliilg hbufe
is * very cohVenient'one afid;a friiallexjJente Would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 150 c finsbearirig engraf
ed Apple Trees—and is 011 other pirtsoffaid
tradt near 300 other Apple Trees—as alto a great
variety of other fruits,partictflaHy Cherries of £he
Bed arid Woft delicious kindi.
Also, a great number of beautiYul Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beatity and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 hiiles j
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frerri MOrris-ToWn, and frorii Spririgfield—lt
is ftOoded arid watered.
To favc trouble, the price i« five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treat.
Febrnarv 2. cOfdff r
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARCR ASSORTMENT
Is now ready for sale by William Young,
Bookfeler, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben s Regulations for the Order and Difci~
pline of the Troops of tke United States.— To ziihich is
added, an afl of Cotnref concerning the Militia, price
50 cents ; do. large prists 67 cents.
W. Young,
Has for sale, on the Iruiejl terms, for cajb or negociahle
Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
Foolscap, FoJ} t Folio and 4 to. Pojl of various fines,
gilt and plain ; ink powder,fealing zvax, ivafers t puhet,
inkfands, black lead pencils, quills, rulers, cafe T of ma
thematical infruments, gunter fcaUs, parchment and ass
skin memorandum boil* t pin-iiiitcr, india rubber and ink.
may 17,
Washington, Commissioners Office,
7th May, 1798.
THE Cotnmiflioners will receive j ropofals*n
til the loth of June next, for building in
the City of Waftiington, one of the Executive
Offices lor the United Slates,- of the following
external dimeofions:—l4B feet in length, ana
57 feet 6 inches in breadth ; cellar walls 30
inches : fii'ft flory 23 inches ; and fe 4 cond story lß>
inches j partition walls averaging 15 inches ; to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms ; fame num
ber on the second story ; and in the roof £ rooma,
with a passage. Th« whole external ti the build
ing to be of stock brick ; the inside walls of hard
burnt brick ; cellars of heft foundation stone, to
the height of the girders ; the outside walls, as far
as they (hew above ground, to the pliath, to bei of
plain ashlar free-ffone ; soles of windows, fills •£
doorsand firing course, of free flone. The house
to be covere with cyprels ftingles ; the rooms ill
general to be 16 feet by »o, finifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the best materials ; 15k fmali
rooms to groined
A plan and ele-vation of said building, and bili
of particulars, are lodged in the office, forth&in
fpe«ftion oi those who may wi to contract ; also,
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
die, £f(]. at Philadelphia.
Pronofals, scaled will be received until the
aothjune next, on which day, the board will
proceed to c®urra& with such person, as lhall ap
pear under all tircumfiances. to offer the best term 6«
Per order of the Commifiioners.
THOMAS MUNROE, Clerk.
may it. aawtzoje
Country Residence.
AF A Mll. \ who live Six V iles from the City *
wish to receive two or three genteel boaiti
ers. The Houfc is handfomsly lurnifhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well itocked with the cheiceft Fruit, 1
There arefeveral Muficzl Infcrumsnts, awiongft
which is a molt excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the 'slice of this Ga
zcttfc. dtf may 16.
TO UE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
APleafant House in Dov k-ftreet, near Front
ftrcn—Apply at No. 155 South Setond
ftreet. , $ may iy
Ross iff Simsoa,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Ealtas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and 7 nrr**
Bengal \ RUM
april 1 §
Thomas y Joshua Fisher,
HAVE F(l* SALE,
At No. 5, Ddck-ftreet, near the Drawbridge,
China wai nankeen dining fttti, tea and cotfee
cup's and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffiti&
Pun gem cloths, choppah romalb.', and bandannoea
China and Eny;liftj umbrellas, '
Together with a general afort merit of European
Goods-- among which, are
Scots thread iu boxes
6d. S«1 iod. lid and aod. nails
SttoV—T ■ Cr'oifrlejr ft«l, Spanifti brbVfrn &n'd whitft
lead
Englifti scythes*42 to 50 inches
At, SO,
111 barrellsof kiln dfyeti Indian corn meal.
Acomm<sdiousStoreiiiDock-fireet»
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitablefor
any bafinHs. § 4 th mo. sth
Sale, *
TbecargOofthebrijjf American from Laguira*
CONSIST! HG OF
. Ca~accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. in, Sotith Fourth Strectl
april 23 $
Frefli { eas.
Juji Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Copper, from Canton,
Arid For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-flrefct,.
AND BT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hit Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyf.n, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
aLso,
China Ware, aborted ; black and coloured Lute
firings arid Satthis, Nankeens, Cafßa, large garden
arid common Fans, fattiti atid loteftritig Umbrellas,
whale-bone fti'cks.
They bavt oi/o ft* Sale,
Ell widfe Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief#,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai »r boxes,
march 8. £
Now Opening,
At Willi A m M'Laws Saddle Man ufaftory.
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afiortmem of Horseman's
dire A frofn the Mdhufadurert ia London *
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags.. Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harneft, &c.
a P 9 | dtf
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application has been made at the Bank of
th« UnitedStatci, for the renewal of the fol
lowing fivt Certificates of Bank Stack, loft by the
capture of the Britilh Packet, Countess *1 Lcicef
ter —viz.
No..?7o»,contiinings(hare9 7 llTued to Henry Ca
-3'03 S do J zenove Nephew&C»
732 I do. iflued to Edwcrd*
and Co.
3*BB j do. iifued (in lieu of
&iOt) to 6513) to Samuel and Heftry Haddington.
i? 28 4 do. iifued to Phyn, EU,
lice and Ingtis.
All petfons concerned are therefore called upon
to ffiew cause why new Certificates {hould
ifiuid agreeably to the said application.
April 14 eo6«r
FOR SALE!
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum*
•Tier Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and oil the Frankford Rojd ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
Thafe CtUdtions are coniidered in point oit health
beauty arid elegance, equal to any titar the city,
and the road known to be fafe ami good at all
seasons of the year. TMfc title indisputable—A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, who will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 114 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
•nay i. Jta#tf