' - xltr* % *
#afette »f «> KnittQ States, and"PHlaMelpbia*Daily Advertiser.
, By John Fenno, N° il9 Cbefmft Street.
'* 1 7 1 4-J ,
FOR SALE,
THE BRIO
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
•a x ■. pered, Ibenthed and bolted, 3 year*
■H9H?rSsabi7 well, t-ii ri#s 15 « t;*-'
t»*{ - n , vine St Soaih-ftrtret wharf. ready to
PfcTER BLIGHT.
For London,
-*■ Ship Star,
Joseph Woodman, mailer,
"4v Intended te fail «n the 18th inft.
£$ ABOUT JO ton* on freight
be reeeived, if immediate ap
plication is made to tfae master on beard, at Wal
nut (Ireot wharf, or to
Thomas & John Kctland.
50 tons Gravel Ballast lorfale o* board faidfhip.
march ;■ §t'**
SALT.
3500 to 4000 bushels of large
grained SALT,
From St. Martin's on board the (hip Spy, at the
Still House wharf—for file by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street.
SAID SHI?
' Will fail in a few days
ForSavannahiaGeorgia—For freight
or passage apply »s above, or to the
Captai- 01 board.
i •'"
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominkk Terry,
Jacob Dihait, Majler,
$5. > - Having great partoV her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
February S
Nicklin & Grifpith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
have for sAl*,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes aHdhhdc*
Teneri-ffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhie. «
Imperial Tea m quarters and eighths ef chtftj
Sail Canvass, No. j, to 8
Diraitin. Oingharas, and IVhWlinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft~tndi* market
Nails assorted -
Black quart bottlei ~ -
Queens ware in hhds. and cratet
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New- V ork, on board the
ffiip Diana, from Liverpool, expeiled round
as fonn as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool bait
Coals
Spjnifh Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Bmwn _ i rATtTTfI -
fsreui Wlllir f
White Lead j
Red Lead * J
Golcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
.For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nickliu & Co.
is now ciianped to
NICKLIN V GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
U GOOD HOPE
)>i Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
SggaiSy is ready totake in a cargo. Forterms
»pply to
Pragers Sff Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win#.
November 7. dtf
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reasonable terms, by applying at No. 31,
North-street, between Fifth and Sixth-streets.
February W eodjt
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hogflieads best ST. CROIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON £5? Co.
fob. 9 fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
(id do the business ■ f the kitchen. Such a one
ill be allowed good wages, and no other need ip
j.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway fervaHt Girl, named
Abigail Miber, latterly calling herfelf Bctfey
Smith, and fending her to North Front-llreot, No.
45. She is of a chunky make , and very dark
complexion, with round features, and black bulhy
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow
ders, as lhe is (uppofed to be secreted in houses of
ill fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19. co2w
~ IN THE PRESS, *
SPEEDILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
(Price 25 Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View j
OF THE CONDUCT Of TBS SXBCVTirZ,
As published in the
GAZETTE of frhe UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In. which thee ommercial warfare of Franca is
traced to the French failion in this country
as its source* ai\d the motives of tJie opposition
to the meafuros of the United States are exposed.
FeW. 8.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 8, 1798.
10 be Le' *ntb* Shares,
A valuable F " ~ked,
• WITHIN mile «r»ir P • a the
well fide of Schuylk . -i '• tv ipike.
It is expe<9<"! th per
feci- ' 'rtirkft,
-tffth +il other uccel 1
AI
A Gardener—a. - to.
None seed apply, in either cafe, unfits th*y an
bring good recommendations.
Snquire at Na. 30 Market-street.
march.?.
" Y» be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
ContVning 6 acres and 40 perches with meat
two story brick House and kitchen thereor, an ap
ple Orchard, kc situate on the Irilk traiS Une, in
the townfliipof M»yam«nfin)S, about one mile from
the cily of Philadelphia Further particular will
be made knowa upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon tbh plaee, for taste aid
' elegance ftiad unrivalled.
N. B. I' tbe above place ii not fold before the
4oth inft. it will th*n be ruted, for the Summer
feafen only. 5 march 5.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be wade for there»ewal
of a Ceitificate ef a Shaft in the Bank of the
Unit d Stales, standing in the mm ' of the Subscri
ber, No. JOO4, anddatsd Julr- 11, 1797 —the Urns
having been loft
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5
~ ~ To be Said,
Tlip time of a Negro Girl,
E!e *en years of age. nd wl.o !n< fu»snte«n '
years to serve. Shel» lately fr-m .he ce«. •. •*
healthy, (Irong an-1 capible ot doing tK<>
work of afmall family.—Enquire of the Print r.
march 5. i
For Sale,
By Elliston Sf? John Perot,
AV 4T, North IVtier Street,
Lorvdon particular Madeira Wine, in pipesand
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediattufe.
Inferior do.
A few bales AllibaJ Cofierf
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvass, No i, to 9
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel el Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China,
march 3 «Sf4w
~ : FOU SALE, ' ~
The Houl'e in Chefnut-fbeet,
NEXT door but one to the corner of Fish-street,
occupied by the fubferiber. Its eligible situation
~ l! "»ejl known—The rooms are spacious ind con
venient, axd finifhed in ahandfome ftL'e—lt has
a double Kitchen, aw excellent Cellars, with an
lee House and rain water ' '.a-m and th> re i» a
Pump of good water near the kitcficn door.
For termi ar"'y to
GARRETT COTTRINGER. ,
march 1. §iw
TO LET, '
And may be entered on immediatelx*—-
a gnutf trry store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent (land for
bufiaefs. Apply to
Thomas if Jafhua Filter, '
march I. § 'No s, OocK-f.r.i't
Red Clover Seed ®f the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glaf-—all of whieh will be fold 1
on very reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. ij, Dock Street,
march T w&stf
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FORfY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantewn and ahout five miles
from the City, the whole being under g«»d fence,
and in excellent order paltnre ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliot 1 Crksson, at his office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, kc. No. 54,
High-fl reet.
id mo. 16th. xawiw
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Froßt Strce%
A quantity of Tanner's QU,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, > entitled to
1(1 and »d proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
James C. Sff Samuel W. iulher,
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.;13, corner of Arch and Frsnt street.
HAFB lot. SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, afiered
A few bales red, white, and yellew Flannel
Ditto fHtty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
' Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taff&ties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chells best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —aad 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city. \
Nov 18 3tawtf
. JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit Weft india market
40 hoetbeads Whi'ing
1500 bufliels g lod Houl'e Coals
A L SO —JUST LANDED,
4CO barrels prime Beef, Bolton aad New-York
50 batrell Pork
150 hhds. Hava-.na Molafles
Woolen Cloths")
Blaukets > assorted in packages
Hard Ware j
Ravens Dutk
Window Glass in boxes, Bri:i(h, of various files
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groce each
A general assortment of Queens' in crate*
Fowling Pieces a; d Fiflols, in cafe*
Balkct fine Salt, in hojjfheads
roa sale ot
Thos. is? "John Kxtland.
February 1 5
I LANDING,
AND FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the ship Fair American,
Same» Burke, matter, from Aqx-Cayej, now ly
-1 ißf *t BrllV wli'Tf,
eoNsiiTibo ; r
Molaflcs, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Vood,
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jcm.
5, South Water-street.
$ mo. 6. *
EDWARD DvNANTy
No 149, South Front-Crest,
Has flili remaining of the Cargo oi tho Johanna,
from Malaga,
6.6 kegs Sun Raiiins
gi jars fine Bloom ditto
ai hlida' | superior Catalonia Wine
Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hoglheadi and
quarter casks
And a few qr calks fine old Colemenar Wine.
He bdt also, a few paciaots of
Calcutta and Madrafe Goods,
i Confiilig of Homhums, Tickcries, PatnaC'hintr,
1 Bandanna, Pullicat end Barhar Handkerchiefs
Choppa Romale, black and coloured Ptrfi.ns, and
black Pepper.
0- Wanted—A Male and Female
SERVANT, of unexceptionable characters,
march r. *.Ueod
The Commissioners
FOR carrying into #ffc<Sl th* TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Frit'ml {hip, Limits, and
Navigation, bttwe >n His Catholic Afcjefty and the
1 Uuiteti Statt«oF Atuarica, hereby giveinjormation
to all Persons therein conccrowti— ■ That in or&r
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es sustained by the eiriaens of the United States, in
conlequcnce of their VcfTels nd Cargoes having
be»n taken by the Mihje&s of His Catholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and France,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by the said
Article, during eighteen months, from'the day
ef the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine all such persons as come before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com. laints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they Ihall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of tbe CommiJ/iy >erj,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commissioners Office t No. 109, Mulberry
frect, May 17tb> 1797.
Feb. 28, *98 —*ttn
%* Tbc/e Printers in the several States •uio pub lift
ed the above advertisement lajl Springy are requeued to
re ~pub lift it one month, and fend their accountt t» P. L,
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal Comfamt, February 17th, 1798,
Rcfolvei, Tbat ten dollarson each dure of Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
ExtraCt from tie Mintu.
GEORGX Secretary.
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
rel'petSive (hares on or before the ift of pril next,
to WM. GOVETT, Treafur.-r.
February 18. sawtA
" NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common peal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New
. Jersey, hzth prtfented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, pra> ing that they would
attend to hear what cun be alledged for or a
gainst his liberation, porlirant to an adl of the
Legiflatpre of ,fhis S(ate,entitled "an adl for
the relief of insolvent debtors," palled the 26th
day of Ja> uary 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the jjurpofe afofefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precinft, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are l equeftad to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 7.98.
Feb 14 —13W5W
Boston fJlafs Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States we hereby
informed, that the m-wufa&ure «f Window
Glass is now commenead at the Glass House iu
Bolton.
Itisneedleft to fay anything of the excellent
quality of the BolKn Glass, as it isfo well known
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe<st greatly superior to any ever imported Irorn
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may he conflantly had by applying to Chaiies F.
Kupfer, at theGlaf- House
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Coyrt-ftroet, Bolton.
gj" Two or threi yooJ Glass makers ate want
id at the above works; such as can produce re
comm ndatioas for good behavior, may be sure 0!
employ, by application to Mr. George L, Limit, at
the works. Men withoat families w ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with ths fame encouragement.
f* fion, January 16 i 2awfiw
For lale or to be let on ground
rent,
A' valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hrufe square. This lot is fifty-ene feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudrcd and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houl'cs, and a
number of (mall tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, Ae. fitiflte on
Water street, between Mulberry anl Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eall
ward nmety-five feet, the* widening ta the
fou;h thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ.c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may havi occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For furthor information apply
to the printer.
Ju y 31. m.iwtf
FOR SALE, Mr
William Priestman,
No. 15, Sout* Fifth-ftre t, ncrt »Joorto tbn U'ar
Office,
A ' -e aflortment of Watches
lit • Keeper, hT Arfioi-i _
G 11 Watch, fy jvludgd 'ad r>uttou
Ditto, EUcott
Bitto, Holme*
Double borrellsd G«!i, Mortimer
Ditto, PatVor
Pjir Pi.loU, Knubley
60 lb. Scolch Thread
Two groce Watch Dials, and
Some gold Watch Hands
,J5" Ready money given for any quantity of Sil
ver or othep watche>. match 2
THE Subscriber informs thole
to whom he is indebted, that a person will
attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the ift
of April next, from the hours of is o'clock inthe
morning till 1 o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied by bini in Chefnßt-flroet, for
the puipofe of (hewing all books, papers and let.
ter» regarding his pad commercial traftfaSions to
fach of his croditurf as may think proper to attend
and them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march I. eotl \
Thick Medium Paper,
fuitahle for copp< r-plate printing
Englifb and American WRITING PAPER
PARCHMENT and VELLUM
For Sale by
Joftph and James Cruljhonk,
1 No 17, Higft-Jlreet.
mar'h J. 'ep.lt
* " TO LET, ~
And poffeffien given the 1 ft April next,
TheHoufeNo. 258 High-street,
At present occupied by P. Butler, ECq.
Applyta
Edward Shoemaker,
No. 127, High street.
February 24 eod3W
n O T I C E.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
lt, of Oxted Cottage, in the C«uniy ol
Surrey, in Great Britain, Splnt'er, or her assigns
for two thousand five hundred and fixty-tvro dol
lars twenty-three ccnta, m the deferred stock of
the Usited States, was loft in the thip teggy,
Capt. Hyer bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year 1796. The u'.fcriher, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Trealury of
the United States, lor a rOnewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 13. iaw6w.
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quaati
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fize—Forfaleat
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January 12 3t»>*6w.
Canal Lottery—No. IL.
TTTILL commence drawing Monday, the *eth
W inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
«m* PiuKii* offlic, tl*. 64, Sooth 9ccond-ftrect—
Tickets inthe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifler
ing and examining" in these, the City of Walhing
ton, No. 11.and PatUrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in naoft'of the Lotte
ries authorifod by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. Theb*finefsof a Broke*, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock anH Securities,
difconHting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will ba duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
' No. lie Walnut ilf et,
INFORMS those who v. i(h to recur to th? only
,means of becoming perfed in the French Lan»
euage,that he has just opened his Library, con
lifting of upwards of 1500 volume, the b«ft caU
culated to afford either ufefuj inftrudion, or p!ea
fure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanish Lauguages, execmec. with ac
curacy and dispatch. cqiri ' nvv. \j>.
Prison Manufactory.
FOR. SALE,
At the Pi-ifon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, Irom 3dy to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Ta-ks
I Oakum and chipped Logw:od
Shoemakets and SadJ'.ts Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea llones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, lacia, window lieaii, (ills, c .
All which mty he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the paifon, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6m
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cerneiof
Second and Chefnut ftre«ts,
(Price 3-8 ths of a dollar J
Obfervatisns on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The Hiflory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge ol speculation a^ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secritar? of the Treasvrt, is FUI LY
\ REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pra&ifrd Tiy the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters cf those
persons who are considered as hoiiile their drfor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton and MelTrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeit of the
documents aforefaid, and a series of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Hamilton,
proving beyond the pollibility of a doubt, tint the
connexion between him and Reynold* was the re
sult of a daring couCpiracy on the part of the lat
ter and hisaflociates to extort money.
tpi A difconnt of oue third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholnfale purcha
fcrs, for cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mi.
Yoo.vo
February y.
- pHF. term of Co-partnership between the t"(jh -
L fcribers, trading under tlic firm of John M.i-
Itr, jun, and do. expires th<> Jay, and by mutual
cotifent wiH not be renewed- The debts and too
cerns of the &me will be fctt'ied by John Miller,
Juu. to whom ailtb te indebted to the pan ncrfbip,
are eanieftly requeltv J t« make to, witk
«•'. delay.
JOHN MILLER, J.m.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February ip ..
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND roi Mil »V THE SCBSCjil#!*,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do, (linger
30 bales low priced piece Go»ds.
John Miller, Jun..
march 3 ' £
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Clufbut ttrret,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS*
—A-WONSST WHICH A*l
Gurrahs M niacxliei
Bafus Sannas
Guzzenas 1 »nda Coffaes
Gvzzies Etfcercics
Bin ; Cforfu C4Nc#es
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of th« ma
nufadtutes of Puna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheon* ol high proof Rum.
ilex. J. MJdUr & James Jj&ui**
Having into partuerlhip under the firm dt
Alexander J. Millar *T Co.
INFORM theit friends in town and country, that
thry have opened a WholefJe 11 ry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frenr S/reet,Philadelphia; whera
they now have, and intend iceeping a general as
faitment of India, German, Irijh, French and Br~
tijh Mannfa&uresfor sale, on advantageous term«*
for cash or a short creuit.
February 19 ftf
Landing
From on board the Snow Maria, from Cepem
hagtn,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
3 o pieces Ravri s l)uek
250 piears Russia Sheeting
900 bfljts Russia Duck, <lnd
A qo'ntity ef-Swedes Iron
For Sale iv
JOSEPH ANTHONY C#
Who ban* oh Hand,
ifl and id proof Bourdeaux Brasdy
4th procf Spanish ditto
New-Ergland Rum
London Particular £ Wine ; Q p ipM
London Market )
Old Claret in Cases
14 hhrts. Coffee just arrived
Befl Bolton Beef in barreU
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhode-Maud Ciieeft
Spermaciti Oil
Tanacrs ditto
No. 1, s, 3, Boston Sail Duck
Russia Cordage, and
An Invtice of Dutch Hollow Glass SV r are.
March 1. dtw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the r«»
mains of the ship India's last cargo frpm
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage ef 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2W
FOR SALE, ~
6y the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-llreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confijling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
I CofTaei Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhurai Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tinjibs
Chintz an,! Calicoes Mulnuli
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhft.
Ginghams Mwlmuldo.
Guzzenas Bandannoes %
Gurrahs • Siiierfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa RotnaJj
Salgatcbys Sooty do.
Giliie Romals Persians of various col.
Mack Pulicats
*OO tons SUGAR
98,000 lb PEPFER.
Willings & Fransis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious Here the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-ftretrs.
Also—A few lliles of Madrafe Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. j t f
Hylon and Voung Hylon Tea.
/> few chelfs of excellent quality, for sale, oorl
ner of Secoad snd Pine ftrcets. Dsc 26 eotf '
Landing this day,
From cn board tht schooner Two Friends, Dan *
lei Crawley, Master,
i-» pipe'* a " d 1 J- ama '»ca RUM,
for sale by
George Latimer £sf Son.
navemher q. j
ROSS SllvisON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftaa, Coflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal riUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, i ROM.
and B' *gal j
300 casks RICE, rnd
A pareel qf ship building CED^R
oa.' f
[Volume Jill.Xfje <sa3ette*
PHIJLA DEL I 1 HI Ay
Thursday evening, Mjm a.
Account of Communications and Donations late
ly received by the American Pkilofopkical So
' ciety.
COMMUNICATIONS.
A deferiptiqn and mode! of a stove on a new
eonftru&ien ; with this motto, " Mifertfuc
tnrrere difct." Offered for premium.
An inquiry into the comparative effeiAs ef Opt
pium OJicinarum, extrafled fro'm the papp-ver
Jumniferum, or white Poppy of Linnaeus, and
of that procured from the Latfuea fahva, or
common Lettuce of the fame author: By
John Redman Coxe, M.'D. of Philadelphia.
DelcriptUn ot ifrtre very Gnjular Gere monies
among tbe Naudowefli Indians, a nation ueft
of the Mifiiflipipi, giving an account of their
tnufic,exemplified by a fpecimeti ot their mu
, Seal notes. By Mr. 3: T.Hutchinfon.Prefq'
hie.
A Botanical mode of difcriminatinp between ef
ciiient and noxious vegetables. By Mr. Ben
jamin Shultz.
A communication " signed " Improvement
offered for the premimm on the fubjcA of
ship.pumps.
A communication " signed Liott j" offered for
the premium on preserving peach trees.
The method of preventing tbe premature decay
of peach trees ; offered for the premium on
preserving peace trees.
A communication "on the cultivation of the
peach tree 5" offered for the premium on
preserving peach trees.
DONATIONS.
Fixaram precipuarum catalogus novas ex ob
fervationihus aflronomieis in obfervitoris Go- <
thano Annis 1787,1788,17891 1790. Autore t
Francisco de Zach. f
Presented by the Author. ' (
Tabulae motuum foiis uovse at correlate. Auto
re Fr. de Zach.
Presented by the Author.
Tabulae fpeciales abcrritionis & mutationis in
afccntionem reiftam & declinationem una cum 1
infigniorura CCCCXCIV ftellarum zodiaca
rum catalopo novo ad initium anni MOCCC. a
Autore Fr. de Zach.
Prefentf'H hy th<* Author
A colleflion of Tin, and othes Eiigli/h Ore*,
Spars, and Chryftals. ■
Presented by Judge,Tur»er.
A Trigonometrical lurvey of part of England
Prrfc-nted by the Marquis of Cornwallis.
Obftfvations on the causes and cure of remitting,
or Billicus Fevers. By Dr. Currie. t
Piefented by the Author
A Bone of thelWa > mouth, feme time agofoand
in Virginia.
by Mr. Jefferfen.'
A large square plate of a Swedito copper coin,
impressed " 4 Daler Silemgnt." /
Presented by General Koftiuflco. '
Publijhed by order of tbe Society . c <
S.vsi. H. Smith, one oftbe Secretaries* ci
" ft
From the New-Tori Gazette. pi
Good morning neighbor Rati, said far- m
ftier Post, meeting him, hovr it your wife : cl
and family ? p;
Rail—Thank you neighbor Port, replied so
Rail, we are all well to home, and stirring ! Cr
about. How be you and yours ? tli
Poji—ln general health, thank Provi- til
dence—My wife complains a little of a pain ed
ie her Read, and my son has a feftered fin- fu
ger»; but these are trifles, we have no tea- or
son to bt? fad. P c
Rail—f am glad it fares so well with you • th
Have you heard the news ? to
Poji—What news ? You have alway* pa
something new and important to tell me, in,
and I love to hear you talk. j n\
Rail—Why you must know, I eal'd at to
Peter:,, and who fliould I find thtrc bit br
Dick Robbins, the blacksmith, Phil Frost, ift
the taaner, Bill Snow, the weaver, and pi*
Squire Wife. They were all engaged in im
great conversation, and I soon found out it ftr
was on politics. The Squire you know is da
.wonderful on such affairs, and made a njoft ric
excellent fpeeth. wl
Poft —What said the Squire ? ha
R*il—He said it was clear from the news ed
that the French was going to take all Eng- qu
land, to burn London, x bJ"w up the Tow- th<
er, and captivate all the Engli/h natioa at am
one flroke. f u (
Poft —Great news indeed, and new as 01
great .' Did the Squire who is a man of pal
great knowledge inform you how all this coi
work was to be done ? > the
. P a: '—Why fartainly he did, and con- hat
vineed every one present, that the thing was mij
poflible, and could easily be done, ay as pie
flick as grease. p rt
A large army he said was ready, and na- fro
med the army of England, and (hips, and Ex
gun boats, and bamoons were all prepar'd «rs
to carry them over the river. j wh
Poft —But the English have a large fleet, hifl
and large aimy, and numerous body of ma- tha
litia too—did the Squire think of this ? , thi
Rail—Saijjainly he did, and fpeechafisd difi
larnedly about it—O ! he is a woaderful itft
fhatp man—He seems to be /killed in all
kinds of things. Though a parson' of no fici
college laining, he is a mere witch—He on
out me, and Paul Simmit, which bee
you know is not easy to be done, and even cr»
Peter tha tavern keeper, stands no chance, he
P»ft —The Squire doubtless must be a the
great and wife man, to do all you have told, mat
me, an is fit bcyone dispute to be-Prefident ers
of the Unitea States, or forae such ereat pap
bod T- ; cefl
Rati— Give me your hand ( Mr. Po(l_I; fefl
refpedt yeur judgment— you talk like a man j left
of have no book laming tnyfelf, to
but I difarn you are a man of great ports, inft;
Peft—~You said something of bamoon6, neg
what kind of things are they ? re£l
Rail I will tell you—They are a new and
kind of veflels that fail through the air, faft ' ceni
as a bird—They are raided by combnftible atte
air, and before you can well think, they deni
wil! carry vtiu a thousand miles ! ' £ x(
Post- —The Squire is a great rnaß !—Did won
ht tell yo* any more news ) V
Rail—Yes, yes, much more—As we that
were talking of the times, he fay*" to me, the .
Rail, (you knew hetf cunning he looks !i) Tha
Rail, fays he, my worthy friend, what keen
think you of the next eleftfon ? I think we He';
must clangs our governor, and several prise
other* ! Why the governor, said I, ftnk
iag him on the knee ? Why, said he, for
fartain causes, which, becafe you are a larn-
fd man?-<Kke tnyfelf, I will tell you !—The
present governor, said he to me, Rail, is no
friend to Usury, which we both praftjee—
He has no opinion that me» has a right to
- swear, break the sabbath, and so forth—
e- which we b<»th do—These are weighty char
' ges against him, and I could mention sever
al other* quite as BAD—But I am sure I
w must have said enough to convince yen, lie
c . ought to be turned out of his office the
next eleftion.
'- Poft —Add what did you reply to the
■J good and thoughtful Squire's remarks !
Rail—Tou know my manner—l scratch
ed my head, ,jmd fat dumbj as it were, for
•foaje time—•l thin called to , Peter for a
s nother grog, and than made up my mind !
i —Squire, said I, your arguments have set- |
r tied me, a new governor we will have, and j
] I'm your man to put him in—Why ! i* not j
a maa'« ' money, his money ! I—Has not I
•very man in a free country, fays I, aright I
. to swear, and account all days alike, if he j
pleases ! ! In a free country, we are all j
| free, and freedom means to do just as I
WE PLEASE.
P»ft —What anfwerreturaed the Squire ?l
Rail Why, the anlWer I looked for ! j
Rail, said he, you never appeared more I
knowing in my eye* !—You now talk like a I
fcholard—like m^felf —You are a diTarning J
ehriftian—There is not a "more thinking I
parson in our parts. +
jPoft—What said the company present ?
Roil—Why they agreed with the Squire I
and me, you may be sure—We convarted I
the hull of them in a twinkle—l always j"
speak to the point in hand—Twenty times j
or more, by just argument*, I've made our I ;
minister so mad, that he would convarfe no | <
longer with me! ! I J
PoJ —Nothing more paffedofeonfequence I ]
I suppose ? I 1
Rail—No, we called for one more fling, I <
a«d drank towards anothcrs good health I a
and after an honest and sober (hake of the J *
haad, bid each be firm, and clever I c
MIRROR. f
CONG RESS. r
||m I P
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. I ®
FOREIGN INTERCOURSE.
■>. _ P
WEDNESDAT FEBRUARY 28. j"
Mr. Imlay said, he felt considerable re- I el
lnftance in offering hi* sentiments to the P"
committee, on the fubjeft now und?r dif-j ' l
cuffion, at thi* late stage of the debate. So I 01
fully and ably, indeed, had the merits of the I
present question been difculfed, that little re- j P :
mained for him to fay, which could have m
claim to much attention from the committee. I. 1 ! 1
He would, however, solicit their indulgence l '
for a few minutes, while he made fo«ie gen- °'
eral remarks on one point en which the gen-1 in
tleman from Virginia, who brought forward 1 S c
the amendment now under debate, appear- m
ed greatly to rely for its support, atid the* P r
subjoin a few observations on the conftituti- I
onality of the amendment proposed. The I
point on vrhicK he prapaftd to remark was j J "
thaj.pf Executive patronage. The danger I" v
to be apprehended from of this I wf
patronage by the Executive—of hi* aequir- I
ing an influence and control which would be I
mischievous and dangerous in the extreme, |
to the freedom and independence of thia I
branch of the govarnment, if Bot to the ex- j T1
iftence of the government itfelf. In hi* ap- Iw;
prehension, stars of this kind were quite I an
maginary; and from the nature and con- I wt
truftion of our government, without foun-j ci
lation. Taking into confidcration the va-1 op
ious and oppofmg interest* and paffions'on lot
which the law* of the general government I ed
lad to operate, in the opinion of enlighten- I ad
:d and unprejudiced men, there could be no me
jueftion but that the Executive branch of I uai
he government was decidedly the weakest, ant
ind that branch of the government the mod I in
ufceptible of innovation and ehcroachment. I for
3f this sentiment were many of the moil gu
>atriotic and enlightened statesmen of thi* I lim
ountry, at /the formation and adoption of the
he general constitution. For himfelf, he we
ladno heGtationto declare, and gentlty.en ten
night call it a clue, or key, or what they i
ileafed; that there was more caufc of ap- I ant
■rehenfion for the fafety of the government, I by
rom the weakaefs and inefficiency lif the I ma
executive branch of it, than from any pow- fell
rs or privilege* pofTeffed by that departmeat cal.
rhieh were dangerous and alarming. The pox
,1 r y of the government was iu support of ' the
hat opinion; and the sentiment which on ! ped
hi* fubjtft had been hazarded with much I of
ifiidence, was now confirmed by experience con
In his opinion, it would be extremely dif- but
cult to name one solitary instance in which, but
n the part of the Executive, there had sibil,
een an attempt t6 interfere with the pow- wit!
rs ot this branch of the government. But, to t
e allied, were there no cafe* in which, on Wi
ie part of this house, attempt* had been erst
lade to enqroach on the constitutional pow- the
-s of the Executive? The famous call for all t
apers, and the attempt to withhold the ne- this
:flary appropriation* for carrying into ef- pat.
ft a certain treaty, were within the recol- Get
£tion of all; the usurpation of the rig-ht thei
. mftrtift the President on the fubjed of ed t
ttrnftipns to our -commiffioijer* in the late not
FT" ™ lth . attempt to di- libe.
. d . control the E*eeutitc fn the use tlem
id employment of the frigates were of rc . lmp ,
nt date j and the present bold and daring f 0 d
tempt to regulate and restrain the Preli- \
nt on a point as clearly and as exclusively this
xecutive as that of nominating to office, was
j'lld not soon be forgotten. c '
Will gentlemen have the hardihood to fay
« these were not attempt, to encroach on whit
' conll ""tional power* of the Executive' exec
lat they wfrc "* re to reft.ais and the t
cp that power within it. proper sphere ? and ,
f no , t ' , He fh ° uld bf puril
fed at a denial e f »fai s ki ud , : i, an tt the | ol>
ink-1 existence of the fait. That such attempt!
for hid been made, and would be again made,
larn- he had no doufct*." THfcy sprang, in a de-
The gree, from the nature and principle of our
sno government}*' they had their existence also,
:e— in part, in-tht tempefs and passions of men.
it to In such a government then, which afforded
•h— either real or imaginary oecafions foropera
har- lions of this kind, attempts similar to the
•ver- present mart be expefted; to be made; they
ire I should be watched with a jealous eye ; they
, he should he refitted with firmntfs and decision.
'the But what, he wonld ask, were the powers
I possessed and exercised by this branch, and
the I the Executive branch of the government >
ks ! Were they equally influential ? Were they
tch- equally powerful? Had they equal weight
for I in the scale of government? He thought not.
• a-I On examination, he was-much inclined to
nd ! I believe it would be found that the weight
set- I of influence and power were decidedly or
and ! the part of this house ; and that experience
not j and observation would juftify the remark,
not I that the Legislative branch of goverment
ght I was frequently attemptingencroachments on
he I the other branches, and usurpations of all
all I power of all power to itfclf.
as I It was a remark, he said, which was not
I without claim to attention, that daßger did
re ? I net nnfrequently assail us from a quarter
ir ! j from which it was the lea It expe&ed. Much
ore I fliould he be disappointed, if this did not
« a j prove to be, the iituatiun of gentlemen on
ing j the other fide of the question. They ap
ing I peared to him, on this occasion, to direst
I their fears to the wrong quarter. Gentle
? I men profeffed to believe, that their fears for ;
ire I the fafety and prefervatien of the govern- .
ed I ment arose from the subtle and accumulat- <
lys J* ing nature of Executive influenceand patron <
les I age; b«t they were not aware of the dan- <
ur I ger of Legislative usurpations, and of the J
no I evil confluences which would result there- t
I from. Gentlemen, on this occasion would v
ce I permit him to fay, that they should be jea- ii
I lousof the purity of their own motives, and ti
g, of their evin conduft ; that they should ex- t
th J amine both'with candor, with fiqeerity, and s
lie j with inflexible impartiality. They ffconld t.
consider, that already does this house pof-- p
I fefs power and influence superior to any on
I ther, if not to all the branches of the gov- ii
erument ; and that it is the nature, the dif-
I position, the cflential and inherent quality ®
, jof power, thus possessed by a, body of men, ei
'• to endeavour after still greater power, nay, b
I to usurp.'and attraft all pewer to Itfclf. Ap- g
I prehensions of the danger wf the Executive ci
J influence seemed to have had a powerful op- w
eration ort the framersof the general and of pi
mod of onr state conftitut?bns. With them
C_ it seems to have been a primary objeft not ct
0 I only to guard against the abuse, but even a- • is
e I g* in ft ( he use of any thing like Executive ar
> I patronage. Apprehensions of this kind,
e may perhaps be ascribed in some degree to aj
I the dread of hereditary power and preroga- ex
e tive, as possessed by tbe supreme magistrate co
_ J of that country, from which we may be said if
_ in some measure, to have taken our form of H
1 j government. * In such a government there
. may indesd be just cause for fears and ap- th
i I prehensions of that kind. But great was w
. I the difference between the constitution of of
j I that country, and the constitution of the rir
i j •omtry iriTWtiiJfi - iVe h&ve the happiness to fhi
r live, and great andmanifeft in his judgment fai
i were the fuperiorinfluence and powers which so
_ I the popular branch of this and perhaps of ed
. I all republican governments possesses over th
1 1 their Executives. ef!
i I He propoftd briefly to examine this point.
-1 The executive branch of the constitution
■ I was limited with much care in the extent
: I and duration of its powers. Its powers
• I were fpecified, simple in their nature, and
• i circumscribed within narrow limits. Its
• I operation watched with a cautious and jea- la:
i lous eye. _ A high responsibility was attach- rei
ed to all its measures, with a salary barely 11
I adequate for its support; without emolu- tr '
I mentand without prerogative; remotely fit-
r uated from the great mass of the people, of
I and poffefiing their confidence and refpeft, e(1
I in no fraall degree, from the recollection of j °Jf'
j former -services, eminent virtue and diftin- ! th '
guifhed talents; and all these imperfeft and ! P l '
limited privileges, or prerogatives if such wl
they may be called, holden, as had been §»'
well observed, on the short and precarious
I tenure of a four years leaf*. tiv
On the other hand, the powers possessed ° ff
and exercised by that house, were exercised ba '
Jby that branch of the government which e- or
manated immediately from the people them- a *'
lelves, with all their passions, interests, lo- a PI
calities, peejudices and jealousies. More 1
powerful in point of numbers than any o- C "
, therbianch of the government, highly res- 4™'
for its wisdom and talents, capable to t
of aft.ng with system and reason in the ac faic
coraphinments of all its measures, its povr- crs
ers more numerous and extensive, and Those tr "
but imperfedly limited and defined, with 1
■ but little, at any rate a very divided refpon- !?*
Jifbtj attached to any of its measures sand er (
with full power to raise money, and a claim tax
to the right of appropriation in all cases, and
With all these superior and eminently pow- ,ra '
erful advantages in favor of this branch of hav
the government, what cause was there for
all this alarm about executive influence all
this clamor about the danger of executive
patronage ? Forhimfelf, he could fee none, in ,
Gentlemen, he feid, could not be serious in to '
their fears on ehis fubjedf. They appear- A
ed to him to be ouite imaginary. He did a<!ls
not w,fh to be guilty »f unchari-able, or il-
liberal fu.fpicions on this occasion. Gen- T !
tie man had difdaimed all mischievous and livT
improper mot.ves. He was happy they had the
hopedthey were fin cere.' leirlf
Mr. Imlay said, if he were correft in fam '
this view of the fubjeft, and he truftcd he mod
was, gentlemen might quiet their
fears as to the danger of this branch of tl«
government from any undue influence to v" rn
which it may be the ground of file 1
executive patronage. On the other hand, T
the danger to be apprehended for the fafetv wl '*
and preservation of the government in its
purity and perfedtion, in his opinion, arofc
the temper and difpofuion manifefied
empti on the part of this boufc to encroach on the 11
made, constitutional powers of the executive. He 1
a de- believed this to be the nature and tendency j
f our of the government, and that the history of
• also, both ancient and modern republics, was in
men. confirmation of thi3 opinion. (
orded Without travelling into ancient history in j
>pera- feareh of cases in support of this general • f
0 the position, he said he would content himfelf 1
they with {referring to two or three cases which
they relate to, and happened within the govern- t
ifion. ment of our country, and therefore more e
jwers to 4 - : <.-'irpcfe. The fiiS cafe to which he tl
, and refcrret s, t.'sc ptorr:-dings of the legif- d
they hono; ie proftffed himfelf ol
eight per: .n ented as :i citizen - r
t not. of u r i , :■■ ■' the ligheft refpeA for Q (
ed to the vis'"- and -egr'-. of its Icgiflature, m
eight yet ...V < \.U • nuliui. O .Tiight be recurred Ith
y or te, in which the papular branch of that lc- p
ienee giflature had stepped beyond its copflitilti-i ft
nark, onal limits and encroached en the powers of
ment the other departments of government
ts on He wished not! be understood as ascribing m |
>f all thisto any mifchievousand improper motives agi
but to the nature, difpofiti»n and tendency the
s not of that, and of all governments similarly mi
r did conftitutcd. The next cafe, to which he j Un '
arter referred, was the proceedings of the «toun-
luch cil of Censors for the state of Pennsylvania po ;
[ not for the year 1783 and 1784. ,p f
ion The authority which he next read on this den
ap- point was, from Mr. Jefferfon's notes on the en S
ire ft state of Virginia. reci
ltle- Mr. Imlay then proceeded to confuler the pie^
9 for amendment in iconftitutioual point of view.
ern- He said it was not his intention to go into w hi
dat- a minute and extensive examination of the it ir
ron constitutionality of the amendment now un- truf
lan- der difcufllon—He should make only a few r he
the plain and obvious remarks which have occur- cu "'
•re- red to him in reflefting on tkit fubjeft, and 8
>uld which have fuily convinced his mind, that the"
jea- it was the d«ty of Gongrefsand of this houfe_ of t]
and t« make the appropriation tir tjotßion ; gcii- goyi
ex- tlemen had idenied this duty and obligation a "d
Mid on the house to make the appropriations for iT °''
aid thi support of foreign ministers legally ap- £ or (
iof-- panted by the President, as they had for- ] y ' rj
•o- ntrly denied the |fame obligation for carry- caß d
ov- inr intoeffetl a treaty conftitutioaally made, plicit
lif- If gentlemen on this occasion, as was well tion,
ity oberved, had direfted their remarks to an ■ warr '
tn, enqiiry whether [the : compenfation allowed [
ly, by law to foreign ministers was not too ' w ' c
i.p- grea, was not extravagant, he fliould have corafl'
ive coniurred with them in the enquiry; but plain
>p. whei they contend for the right to appro- decti
of priae or not, he could not agree with rhem. l»ttr|
:m Tiere are but three clauses in the whole
at constitution which relate to this point—one ! r,on '
a- is the ad clause of the 2d fed. of the ad C0 " B O j
ve article. our c
d, Hert the right of making treaties, and vatio
to appointing foreign ministers is as clearly and ture >
a- exclusively vested in the Preiiden' « J, * ) the 111
te concurrence of the Sen«tr or two thirds, a
id a» the right of originating money bills in the a pr '
of House of Representatives. ; •
re The next clause to which he referred was
p- the last of the Bth feft. of the ift artiole—in rp
as which after enumerating the various powers j
of of Congress, such as levying taxes, dpcla- "j"j
lie- riric war>,fcc. it was added. " that they
to should make ali lawswhichfliall be neciu^** r '
nt fary and proper for carrying into effe<& the
:h foregoing powers, and all other powers vest- ,
»f ed by this constitution in the govertment of ps '
er the United States, or in any department or r "°f
effiee thereof." of tl
it. This was no) intended as a summary of
)n the former prerogatives, but as an addition
nt al grant of every authority necessary for giv- CO TI
rs ing them full effeft. For example, betides , .
ld the right of levying taxes and imposts, it ! e :
ts £ rants Congress the right of determining e "
a . taxable inhabitants, establishing colle(Sto/s, .
h . revenue cutters, &c. Having declared war
| it gave the right of regulating the levy of ?.
u _ troops, establishing arienals and magazines f e f'
t- "~hut the clause adds likewise, the power r,
e, of carrying into ess.dl all other powers veft
t, e <L b y tl,e Constitution in any department sr U
)f 1 office of the government ; for instance, by ,
1- j this elaufe, Congress isUipowered, and f-x- pre
d j plicitly required to enable the judiciary, Wa ® \
h wlwchis one department of government, to , .
n give effed to their decisions and judgments .®.
IS «ouftitutienally made ; to enable thetxecu- !'
live also, which is another department or ! " ers ,
d ° fficer » to carr y into operation treatiestWl out , t!
d have been ratified, and to make provision : an '; is o
for supporting those foreign ministers and
agents, which have been conftitutionallv i T"
appointed. Ed to
, e Gentlemen had contended, that the power to C 'P le '
carr y " lto efofl «lie legal arts of the executive, blll w
- of refufing to give thera ef- Mr
c , * ' '' eonftruflion was evidently contrary militi;
r°St si s" lnd f P* rit of ,he Let us, the c«
he, take an example fiom among tfcc pow
' trVte'u " lejifiatlJre which t0 iMuf- aUel J t
h If c " n^ rffa hav « determined to levy a certain ° r P lla
. ,ax » hlch b y the conftiiutinu it has aright to tb e m
do, then, by this ciaufe.it has the farther pow- ta be
a er of do<n ? every th.ngneceffaVy to collefi that not be
InH T CCrta,nt >'' to brln (-' 't into the treasury, tendec
" a,ul I P r *ve«t any part of rtie people from con T
" h" Vf "'T • Wi " pretend" that fu™
( having determined to levy the tax, they «, ay fall ,' r
r " e ? e^ means of giving efficacy co would
Ami that the power given in this elatife, Is a er » 1,1
. P owtr t0 a<ft > or n °t to »a, in the cafe ? That done }
' In '°^ r,fle . with .' ,s inlaws? No, the power difagr
. " imp;,t, an obligation to give effca twixt
, to ttie law, by every reqtiifite rubfidiarv law. \J V
. A. that clause ha- relation to the legal
1 a cls of the executive, as *<ell as those offhele- Mr '
gill it) ye, it equally and evidently implies an oll g ht
ob igation to mike the Hecefliry ' fubtidiary ln g th
aw. and for ail», of the execu- in thei
rX°„ f i' Ca "- 0t " np ' y a power ,0 defe " Wards
he a«t of the any more than of the" to ; t 0
ev ifl.itive for both are exprelTed under the iu
lame terms ; but limply a po« er, which, by the
mode ef eipreflion, involves an obligation to melU
give complete effia to both. It supposes the was a '
duty of giving effea to the conditional rights en to t
and powers of the different branches of the K o- prefen
The-unly other clause in the conliitution, ther s b
ed wnh T J r^ t0 n him be l'
J ' h,s sub '« the 6th clause of ,he nth were !l
-• ol ift article—the pro.vision contained ii»- militia,
and rfc, VI I, " cn<ied te agair.lt fraud, Mr.
and the of the public money ;Ap ordina,
n th« J operate as t cneck on r
He : the government « d its Saf
ency P re vent money being drawl f rn ' U :r '> Mto
z t
. or
ry in predated a fort of si
neral , hcntion was extremely fl,? hlO hi ' a CDrt
nfdf fve-Itha. been c .ZJd 2Od **£
hich which ■
n °, re " This *™i t h /Crt f '"'pav--
ihc themoft unfounded •/'*
-'g; f - driwa l power,
,he 'ts money ConC ern s into th „ T® »c a
ifelf e vorle: -<• •'-h« j
zen T i^'Vj ' lc ia ' d » he would a(k » B
,rf ,' ™ oral °kl'g«ion, and by |*° JlT'?' !nder 1
led the appr, priatiol|s g to mifur
& ?"™ZX°TZ; »r
'* SgaSgfi**!
%
ves agent, (hould be conTuls > If °" r ° " foreign
icy the fame principle. °»
tly mimftersat all—we 5 mh ave any
fj unless they are appointed to fur'h^/ PPropr,afe
be agreeable to amajority of 7*l" •»«
a :Vi" re te »PP r <»pnW i»hlefr ,He We
3 ? (M the particular
approve. That is, we mav t We fta "
1U dent's right of appointing nu-atort * refi *
k <
k = tt&i&irfl&gr* >
"■ bitious grasp eyrry af"'he'''" ° Ur •"*
to which requires one monevT"^''
le It effefl, however facredV it m h T' 7
j. trusted.to the prefulent l,v,
r
11 the judiciary 2u e manne r, render
'e of the gn '"^j.° y JiPl!!i?' t . or ! t hi " hra~,th
l- soyernmem thusingulyhedTn thhThoufe'
" Wrfh r a tyr ?'"V' "hich we endeavour to'
r avoid by a feparatmn of the departments.
- , " gentlemen-really think, that chis would be
. f° r d ' C »J«* "f the peopl,, be wouU inZte.
- cL'h-a" C ° me f ° rWard iu a " "Pen and
casdid manner, and endeavour to obtain anex
. plicit modification of that part* f the conftitu.
1 . tion, than be continally attempting to court un
» I wa,ran table extensions of representative power
j under the falfe and dangerous confi/u&ioru,
> ! whict ™ ake that instrument speak any .lan
guage. If we pretend to be governed by the
* constitution, let us submit to it according to iu
plain and obvious meaning, and not be forever
itrprcn^t MiCi °" a and dift ° rted
, 1 Let us remember, that our constitution is »-
6 mong the wisest and best the world has ever
, known. That to fapport and preserve this
constitution was the frcred deposit committed to
our care ; Uie prefeut U jrperied of inno
-1 vation, tfiiorder and revolution. Let us there
-1 fore, be cautious how we conftrne and innovate"
. on ,ny part of that system. Rather let us wait
, f ° r a n ; or V J lm an<l fettled state of things, than
, at present seems to exist.
( (Debate to be continued. J
5 ,
j WEDNESDAY— MARCH •},
t The amendment? of the fen'ate to the bill
for ere&ing a light-house on jEatos's neck,
and for placing certain buoys in the p)ace«
, n .t ju
greed to.
; Mr. Champlin presented a petition from
p the distillers of spirits at Providence, in
. Rhode-Island, praying for encouragement
of their business, either by lowering the
p duty on domestic fpiiits, or by encreafing
that on spirits imported. Referred to the
cpmmittee of wf.ys and mean r ,
Mr. J. Parker stated, that Rowing to his
late tndifpofition) he was not in the house
when the bill ■ for erecting a light-house on
1 Eaton's Neck was pafltd ; but as he had re
' ceivcd inftruftions from the merehants of
- Norfolk to endeavor to get a light-house e
refted on Old Point Comfort, in Virginia,
he should propose a resolution which fhoyld
direft<he committee ef commerce and man
ufactures to enquire into the expediency of
erecting such light-house. He accordingly
! presented- a refoluti®n to that effeft, which
was agreed to.
The house took up the amendment frem
the senate to the bill providing relief for. the
| widows and orphans of eertain deceased of
| ficers and soldiers, which proposed to ftrik«
out that part which relates to the widows '
and orphans of nsilitia officers.
Mr. D. Foster hoped this amendment
would be c«ncurred in ; as the part propos
ed to be ftruek out introduced anew prin
ciple, and if it were not concurred in the
bill would probably be loft.
Mr. W. Claiborne said the services of our
militia officers were certainly as valuable t®
the c®untry as those of the regular army,
and justice and policy required that the fame
attention (hould be paid to their widows and
orphans. In cafe of danger, ho supposed
the militia of the country were principally
ta be relied upon, and he thought it would
not be g«od policy to rejeft a provision in
tended for the relief'of the widows and or
phans of militia officer* in cafe they ftould
fall in the defence of their country. He
would rather the bill was rejefited altogcthi
er, than that partial justice ihoiild thus be
done j but he hoped if the amendment was
disagreed to and a conference took place be
twixt the two houfes,/the senate would re
cede from this amendment.
Mr. Harper did not think the amendment
ought to be concursti in from a fear of o •,
ing the bill, because, if the fen?te per' c
in their amendment, the house coul a er
Wards determine whether they wou d agree
to it or lose the bill. , , ■
Mr. Gordon W2S in fav° r
ment frorfc the senate. H c s'!
was a ftronr reason why relit'f fhou JC S l .
en to the family of a" officer in t e ar .yT
.preference to an officer in the nn itn. e'
a man went into the army he gave up a
ther business, and of course, if c e ' !!\
country's service, his widow ana c i
were left deftituce. It was not so With the
militia. . '
Mr. T. Claiborne thought thjs an extra
ordinary reason for agreeing ta the ?mtu »
I . . . '.r*ment ; sos though mi!itU-roe« were not
c»n ftantly in service, they were frequently
called upon at a time when, to leave the.ir
plantations was amended with great loss and
inconvenience; and if the officers of the ar
my were in constant employ, they also re
' ceived conftint and good pay.
Mr. Findley wished, as much as any man
that the widows and orphans of militia of
fii should be provided for*; but because
• auld not obtain relief fipr, them, he
'd not wish to deny it to other uafortu
naTt families.
Mr. Coit said, it was his opinion, that
/idews and orphans of decealed militia
rs ought to be provided for, but ,the
t nt bill was.not the proper place of do
t, as this bill was intended only to make
«i r: complete a former law, which did not
amain any thing refpedtiHg militia officers.
If 1 his was a general provision, the clause in
favor of militia officers might have been
proper.
Mr, Lyon could not concur in the amend
ment of the senate. Jealousies already ex
ift*d among the people, that'the federal go
vernment had a preference for a (landing ar
my, to the discouragement of the militia,
and to concur in the amendmsnt would
firengtKen those jealousies. The militia
officers, lie. said, are as rcfpedtable a ftt of
men as any in the community, and ought
not to be offended. He would rather lofc
the bill altogether, than strike out the mi.
Jitia officers.
The bill to amend the aft for laying a d«-
ty on (lamped vellum, parchment and pa
per, was rtai a third time and passed.
A bill was r#ported for continuing in
force the law for prohibiting for/a limited
time, the exportation of arms and ammu
nition, and committed far to-morrow.
The house went into a committee of the
whole on the bill to continue in force the
"7* f »-£ »■
aw appointing an health-officer for the state
of Maryland. The bill was agreed to with
out debate or amendment, and ordered to
je read a third time to-morrow.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
tlaims, made an- unfavourable report on the
petition of Peter Vanfandt, which wascon
:urred in by the house.
Mr. N. Smith called for the order of the
lay 011 the report on the fubjeflt of making
ome alterations in the execution of the law
or the relief of persons imprisoned for debt;
vhich, being agreed to, the house rffolved
tfelf into a committee of the whole on that
übjedt, and the report was read as follows:
The committee appointed to enquire into
the expediency of making alterations in
the adt for the relief of persons imprison
ed sot dcKt, b*£ leave to report.
That, in'their option, the said adl ought
o be so amended, as to extend ittnrovi
fions in express terms, to persons impriTon
;d in civil causes at the fuic of the United
States: also, that the several diftri6t judges
■jught to be authorized to iflue their war
rants, commanding the goalers to bring the ,
prisoners before them, at such time and
place as they (hall think proper to appoint,
for the purpose of executing the bufineft af
-sgned them by the said aml in
j, Ifotiris corifineiTln the cities of Philadel
phia, New-York, Boflon, Baltimore, and
Charleston, the judges ought to be empow
ered t® appoint two eommiflioners to do the
Dufinefii, by reason of other judicial duties,
rbfence, sickness, or inability. Your com
nittee are also of opinion, that provision
ought to be made, by law, for the support
>f poor prisoners, during their confinement,
irevious to taking the oath provided for
them by the laid adl.
On motion, the report was amended by
ilriking out Philadelphia, New-York, &e.
naking the provision general,
Mr. Livingflon observed, that he fuppo
ed this report would go farther t!ian was
ntended. When this bnfinefs was 'firrt in
roduced on the petitior.of William Bell, the
committee of commerceandmanufadlures re
>orted to the house that one of two tfour
ses might be taken either to give relief, fpe
ially to the petitioner, or admit the princi
ple now recommended. The objedlions
hey had to the latter course were strongly
certified by the letter of the attorney-gener
lof the U.Stateswbowas (Irongly of opinion c
■ h*t thtrwgh titc O. Oiatea werrtiot specially
'tamed, they were bound by this aft. What r
hen, would be effedl of the doftrine arifmg J
iut of an adoption of this report ? It would !
>e, that in cases where the United States
,re not named, they are net bound, diredt
y contrary to the opinion of the Attorney h
General. If it did not eftabiifli that opin
an, it would, however, have a tendency to }
ftablith it, though this house had not at "
11 examined the opinion. Indeed, the o
linion of the Attorney-General of this state (j
vas directly different. The committee of >
ommerce and manufadlures thought, there- w
orej that it would be best that a determin- r
tion should firft be had in the supreme court Cl
pon which the legislature might adl; but d
hat any prerioos proceeding would not have P
he certainty which such decisions ought to r '
ave. "
. Mr. N. Smith said, it was true there was r "
difference of opinion in refpeft to the '
nfolvent Law as it refpe&s debtors of the
Jnited States. The Diftrift Judge of this p
>tate is of opinion that the United States h
re not bound, except mentioned by name, ai
In consequence of this opinion of the Di- fc
trift Jadge, several debtors had been long ti
onfined in goal, though it is agreed on all te
.ands they are worth nothing. It was true, ti
le said, the Attorney General of the United
itates is of a different ppiaion, and the Di
iridl Attorney cosicurred with him. Mr. S.
aid, he washimfelf of opinion that the Uni- M
ed States were bound by law, whether ex- pa
irefsly named or not ; but as this differ
nce of opinion was the means of keeping ju
befe persons in prison, he thought it best na
■o extend the provision. Nor did he believe bi
hat in .doing this, the house would impli- *4
"'tly adopt the dodtrine of the Diftria
Judge. This would depend upon the wor
ding of the bill, that the law was passed to bu
>t clear up doubts See. which would avoid such
y a eonclufiotr. ' • ?•
ir The report wa» agreed to, and the eom
id mittee was directed to report a bill accor
r- dingly.
e- On motion of Mr. Coit, the house went
into a committee of the whole on the bill
in in additional to and alteration of an adl ;o
if. promote the progress of ufefol arts, and to
fe repeal the a& heretofore made for that pur
]« post.—This bill propofet to repeal the 9th
u. and 10th fedtioi-? of n 4 t ,si w, and to
add afedtion i ;ii „ in* on any
at aerfon who fh? n.<k-, rife or fell
; a any thing, the ' r , which has
been fecutcd t
o- Some debate u he proprie
te tyof striking out the h fe£tion of
ot the present !a* s *v»ich ae for a refer
•t. ence to arbitrators, when two or more
; n persons apply to the Secretary of the Trea
en fury for patents for the fame invention, and
for redress in cafe of any person obtaining
&. a patent for ap inveotion to which he is not
x- entitled, Mr. Gordon moved to strike out
o- the firft fedtion. After some debate, Mef
ir- fieurs Gordon and Sewall being in favour
ia, of retaining the 9th and 10th fedtions, and
Id Messrs. Coit and Livingston for repealing
;ia them, the qucft ion for striking out the firft
of fedtiori was negatived, 35 to 30.
ht Mr. Livingston then moved an additional
(fe fe&jon allowing th'e legal repreftenfsftives of
)i. any person entitled :o a patents to obtain
it, which was agreed to.
The committee th;n rase, and the house
ia- took up.the amendments and agreed to them
Mr. Gordon again moved to strike out
in the firft fedtion ; and Mr. Sewall called the
ed yeas and nays upon the question, but as one-
U. | fifth of the members did not rife in favour
of this motion, it wa»not carried.;
he Mr. Sewall then flatld, that he had no
he particular wish to have the Yeas and Nays
t'ken ; >»• »ifhed only to. call the attention
te of members to the quellion.
h- The qneftion foe ftrikmg dtft t*ie firft'
te fedtion was and carried, 37 to 33.'
The bill was recommitted to tie feledt
as committee, and two membtie added
le Adjouned.
By this day's MaiL
J BOSTON, February 28.
By later papers we find,that a lay predi
al I cated on the meflage of the Direftory of
lt the Jth Jannary, has pafled both Councils
|; I of the Legislature, ana is now in fill force.
Q I Th« articles of English merehandze which
n I are the objeft of this arret, ire eery thing
I wrought, manufactured, or fabicated in
I Great-Britain. Tt does not exteid to pro
t I duceofany kind, If we were to eonjefture
■_ I as to the obj«dl of this new regulation, we
I. I Jhould suppose it intended to impoverish the
d I handicraft. „nH manufacturers of Great-Bri
|g I tain—to compel them tr> speak loudly and
- { to government, and thereby to
I intimidate them into anacquiefcence in such
j 1 a peace as France should be pleased to dic
t I tate. How this will affeft the trade of the
■' 1 United States is plainly fee",. Jbntiiis*" I
£ J.r v the T!ugli'fffgov«TnmeHt will not 1
_ Tpermit the American spring fliips to fail '
j I without convoy*, as great part of their car
_ I S oe8 's always insured in London. When
e I the knowledge of this event arrives at Phi
> I ladelphia, the neceflity of permitting our
[ I (hips to arm themselves, and immediately e
l | quipping all the armed ships that can be fit
t ted out or purchased, will be so apparent,
I than an unanimous vote is expedt d on the
r ' I occasion. We have not a doubt but orders
founded on the principle of this law, have
r I been sent t,o all parts of the world by the
I Diredtofy, for their ships of war and pri
vateers to capture all reffels of every nation !
lon board of which English goods /hall be 1
, j found, let thena be furnilhed or not with '
roh des cquipngej, or be failing under the 1
I protedtion of the mofl sacred treaties <
| Indeed we have a paragraph before us, di- ! <
redtly point. • It is in a Philadelphia paper '
received by the la ft mall, which fays, " A | <
I letter from Baltimore informs, that two vef- | ]
fels belonging to that city have been seized <
land condemned at the late Spanish (now '
French) port of St. Domingo,' in Hlfpam- 3
ola, for having British manufadhireS or «
j good, on board ; and that it is the determi- «
I nation of the French there to condemn all
I veflels found in their ports, or taken on the
I high feai, with British manufadures on
I board. S
rottlON MCUDIANIA. '
11.- Story has bren tried and icquitted for
I hi» conuuA in the affair «f admiral <tc Winter. 1
he kI ed and wounded in the Dutch fliips we * "
I Prince of Conde ha, found an af T !«m ~
I■ n the palace of l»,ul I. n Peterfcnrg, where he ai - I:
I r.ved the »;th NoveraVcr The court of Vienna "
a* complimented the wife ®f Buonaparte with a
I luperb coach, and fix white horses of enuifite C
I <;auty. The Emperor thinks the French general
I wa S very liberal in the cession of the Venetian t*r-'
I ntory. Ihe namber of persons invited at the feaft
f oi the in honor of Buonaparte, ex-
I ceeded icao. The Direfiory have forbidden un'-
I der revere penalty, the ringing- of bells, to call S
I people to church. It i| time, fay they, to oblite- H
I rare *very trace of the ancient regimen. Th» pa- S
triotic "ifts made to the council of five hundred to
I facilitate the projected descent on England, are ve-
Iry numerous but not very valuable. Admiral
I r acrof» command* the French fleet at Brest?
The monuments of the arts and precious
produftions, particularly of Rome, which
have pafied through Marseilles, for Paris, S
amount to 228 piftures, »02 articles of
sculpture, busts aod statues, 1295 antiani- B
ties, 2543 volumes in manufcrip»s, and prin- g (
ted on paper and parchment, and. 1051 ar
ticles of natural history,
MASSACHUSETTS LIGISLATURI.'
Since our last a bill'for incorporating the ar
Maflachafett* Mutual Fire Infuraoce Com
pany, pafled to be enadted.
A bill for establishing a superior court of te
judicature, iu Maine, was debated, and si- C
nally referred to next feflion— Several other
bills, principally of local nature, havepaff- ,h
ed various stages of progreflion. r X
l' c
Yesterday the carpenters commenced rt- "
building the Federal-ftrept theatre. \ j
%\)t d^asette,
PHILADELPHIA,
11 THURSDAY EVENING, March 8."
o «= —■ —— , ; L
o MARRIED]—On Tuesday evening
•. last, by the Rev. Mr. Abcrciombie, Doc
h tor John Ridman Cojce, to Miss Co*,
0 ' daughter of the lare Col. John Cox.
yl_ ,
U Exiraßt of a Utter from Germantown, March
,8 sth 1798.
" The extreme badness of otfr roads will
plead my excuse for not attending to our
,f appointment. Scarce a day has pafled for a
•. fortnight without one or more accidents of
e carriages, flailed, upsetting, breaking down,
. or laming horses &c.&c.' We have perhaps
1 as good stages as any on the continent, and
v what is of more confcquence, sober, careful
t drivers ; and yet neither of them have eT
t caped accidents— why the legislature with
hold from us a law that-wouldgivejit a Turn
r 'pitc fat a time when the legislature of a fif
i ter state are making exertions for this pur
y pose that does them,ercdit) is for them to
t determine, fuffice it to observe, that if the
law at present before the house for extend
il ing it to Reading should pass upun the fame
£ plan as when confined to the 12 mile stone,
n in which the very principle of turnpikes were
attempted to be destroyed, and were very
e much mutilated, we shall have the law with
a Out ever having the road made. It is believ.
t ed that this extension is a mere finefle to de
e feat the bufiiiefs; I think this is warranted
. from the eonduiS of the member from F—
r in the commencement of it, when heohferv
ed that he considered them as an evil, confe
-3 qaently voted againQ: it wh«n confined to
s the 12 mile stone; nevertheless, he wished
to extend this evii by voting to go to Read
ing, no doubt With * view of defeating it
he has a peculiar aptness at applyingprimi
; plet, he will therefore excuse the inhabitant*
t of this place in thinking it a very dirty out,
that would keep them always riding through
the mud. As to of the mem
ber from M——, it was no more than was
expedled frpm him; to be sure h« made a
very elaborate apology for his conduft when
he opened his budget, in which he stated he
had a number of friends to some of whose
- judgment he paid great deference, and that
F one of them advised his taking off the keen
; edge of his opposition, this certainly must
mean fomcthing unfair, unmanly or impro
-1 per, or it would aot have excited the atten
tion of his friends. How far he has taken .
1 this good advice, his motion for a postpone
. ment or in other words a total defeat, fpeaka
■ foritfelf: his yitws it is said (but whether
: true or not we canaot aftually define) are
: for defeating this business to preserve hit
popularity ( which it is thought he would part
I with, with the fame rela&ance that a miser
. would with the last piece of gold his eye»
1 were ever to behold) and thereby havcagood
chance of getting into Congrefg. If a good
flock of afTuraace, arrogance and loquacity
J to his own fatisfaftion will bet fecommen*
dation to a feat in that honorable houfe,and
he ihould obtain it, I have no doubt but that
the luminary of Vermont weald be totally
eclipsed." 1
The Scotch renegadeCallender it at pre
sent in the pay of Snrgo ut Piofim, for the
purpose of traducing the people of this coun
try. Par nobile fratruml
Callender,(whom the editor of the French
paper the Auroia appears to have taken in
to his service) fays, that « the Columbian
Centinel is the most stupid and wretched of
all stupid and wretched newfpaperi," there
is about as much truth in this, as in any
thing Callender ever wrote. It is a sample
sf the information, judgment and veracity
of this most nefarious and dcteftable reviler
;°/ our government. The Columbian Ceu
| tinel has more fubferibers than any newfpa
; per published in the United States. It cir-
I CHlates chiefly in the Eastern states ; the \
readers must consequently be the most ftu- '
yid and wretched of all lUipid and wretch
ed readers. What a paragon of modesty it
ihit A urora caterer of slander and falfehood 1 1
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, March 7, 1708.
Six Fer Cent. ibr a
Three per C«nt. Icy 1
Deferred 6 per Cent. ,Z g
BANK United States, 41 per cent.
Pennsylvania, 33 ver cent ,
North America, 50 p=r tent.
Infurancc Co. Pennsylvania, 30
-N. A. (hares 45 per cent.
■ —■m r
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. t ,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. ?
arrived, bat s. si
Ship Delaware, Cooper, Canton 116 "
Hng Maru, Woodward, Porto Kico 18 e
Schr. Thomas, Vanduynd, P. au Prince ao ,i
Little Will, Pearfon, do. 2a
Neptune, Wood, New-York , „
Port Rqyjl, Prafon, Virginia r tl
Mary Ann, Clark, Norfolk , w
Daphne, Coatfon, New-York 4 ir
ci ?, ?'* Boflon 7 o-
Sloop Pltience, Willis, New-York 4 b,
. CLEARED. w
Brig Eliza, Campbell, La Guira* a<
o , u^c "' Niaington
Schr. Phabe, Howard, Havanna ~
Betty Hollon, Carson, Kingston, Jam
Three Sifters, Shallcrofs, Cayenne „
p • B New-York £
Brig Araiable Creole, Story, from hence has
arrived at Rotterdam.
Ship Delaware, Cooper, failed from Canton -
the gth of Nov. last m 1 ompany with the ship
New-Jerfry, Capt. Clay, and parted 5 dayi if. ""
If, ' he,e the P'geu, captain Robert ; .
Uay, ot ihii portto fail in 15 days. rt
Capt. Shields, of the brig Eagle, 11 days from M
the Mole, informs, that on the sth of Februa- i
ry the Mole was attacked by soo> French *"
hcaae, who were defeated with the 1 fs of 4 men
and a field piece. The Engiifh loft 1 f er jeant p 1 ;
and 14 regulars. The Fren«h retreated to Jean th
Rabcl, I
m The fchooaer Maria, Rieharil Flinn, nnafter,
on her passage from the Havanna,te St. Tho
rn is, ofTP"rto Rk", was captur-d hy the Tsnl<
ifh ship Severn, Capr. Boys, ot «o g i 's aod or
"" deed for the Mole, hut was fr takeii. by tw«
brigand boats, sod sent into Poit-'le-Piix. whert
the vefJVl and cargo war condemned thiee days
after her arrival.
- New- March 6.
g .ARRIVED. b vs.
Ship Venelia, Paine, Gibraltar
C, Henrietta, , Philadelphia
Prig Endeavour, Macy, St. Bart holomews
Charlotte, ——, do.
■h BViV Rowar.na, Jvlariner, G. N. Wole 1J
Schr. Almira, ——, '■ Charlcllon
1) Schr. Hannah & Naosy, Lee, Fr'dfbnrg 18
ir Francis, Wake, Norfolk 18.
a Alligator, Hazard, Bahamas 19
if Peggy, Bebee, C. N. Mole 17
1, Elizabeth, Hubbell, N. Carolina 7
t Sloop Louisa, Star, do. 8
(J Sloop Eliza, Fairchild, St. Croix 2t
il Yesterday arrived ship Venelia, captain
Paine, 31 days from Gibraltar, brings no
. mateiial information. 1
1. The Spa«ifh fleet were still blockaded in
Cadiz, when capt. P. failed.
Ship Venus, Dafhield, of and for Balti
j more, failed in company ; and brig Maria,
e Cotton, of and for New-York, 011 the 10th
- January.
e The (hip Mary of New-York, Afhley
, Cook, maftcr, from Fayal has arrived at
e Norfolk Virginia.
if The Faftor, Kemp: Belvidere, Rey
. uoldsj Two Friends, Gardner; and Favo
. rite, capt Drumniond, have arrived at Lon
. Don—The Chcfapeak, Waddle, at Bristol
i ■ —America, Malaby, at Liverpool.
On the 15 th ult. the brig Eliza, from
. St. Thomat to this port, out 25 days, put
. into Norfolk in distress.
a London, December 25.
3 On board the Worcester Weft-Iridiamen,
. lately loft off Portland, there were four la
- dies aud several other pafTengers of refpa&a
. bility; a Mrs. Morden and her two daugh
t ters, were amongst the wounoed, and, with
, nineteen others perished.
ii By a letter from Mitford, of December
12, we learn, that on the day before, at
s three P. M. was driven on shore neir Schol
-1 oier, o* that coast, the brigantine Mary,
»\ of Martinique, James Richardson tttafter,
s from Martinique for London, laden with
e sugar, vessel and cargo totally loft. The
t matter and one man only saved; seven sailors
1 and five paffeagers drowned,
t From Lloyd't Lift.
On Saturday the unpleasant news wat re
. ceived at Lloyd's Coffee House that the A
-1 . riadne, fur ship, from Quebec, valued at
- 150,0001. was captured and carried into
1 Bourdeaux. The lofles on Lloyd's books
r i of Saturday amounted to more than two
; hundred thousand poundi.
1 Arrived at Dover, Mercury. Cutts.from
t Charlcllon.
[ NEW- 1 ORK, March 7.
ExtraS of a letter from A bany, Match t.
I " Vefterday Robert M'Clallen, Esq. Wat
appointed Treafurcr of thia state—vice Ge
rard Banker. Esq. refign«d. Mr M'Clal
len had J7 votes out of 95 there tv*re 12
I candidates. The Senate has been 4 days
occupied in the cause of Governeur and co.
; and Guien—-but nothing yet decided.
*«* The Subfcriberx for tht publication
under thefignaturt of SciP/O, are inform
ed that it is notu ready for delivery. The
price it 25 Cents.
Frc-fh Teas.
jfu/t Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, Iv
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Coupling House, No. 54, Chcfnut-ftreet,
» AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compiling House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted; Mack and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteftiing Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tlty ittve a If, For Sale,
Elll wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrella*, Sueai in boxes
march 8.
for ~sale, : ~
400 barrels BKEF.
Enquire <>f
George Pennoel, or
. G'td. Hill Wells.
warch eotf
Custom House, 1
pjf'id of Pennsylvania, Mar-.t btb, nmi
H HE MERCHANTd ot PHILADELPHIA 1
J who may have any account or tnowlerVe of 1
the capture or detention o sny ftip or vessel, ,ht- i
go r other property, belonging to citizens of the .
united istatss, rcfidmg within this diftrkft, hy or i
under the authority of foreign nations, (ince the <
firft day of OAohrr, 1 7? i, r particularly requel- t
ed in irformation tlureoi, to the Coilec c
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, asfoon as may I
nt ; fpedfying the name of the vessel t
the captain s name, the number o tons, the efti- t
mated value of the vessel, if condemn, d, the efti- t
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi- a
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of ii
what nation captured, with filch.obfervation. as
may be thought peceffary upon the cvrcui»ftare«
of each cafe, , n order that ftarements thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secretary of the I'raafury
Z h fZ r r qUI rJ t0 ,he frtle bdor <- the Senate
and House oi Reprefentativesof the United States 0
march 7.
' Mot '
io Let,
o.^ bou V?t acre L of ? rounfi ' with a e ood house,
prden, stables, &c.about 4 !-a mile, from town N
Immediate possession may be had. h
PETER BLIGHT. ]
February a 7 §lot £ J
APR I N f. »
"pHE Pnnt, rcprcfenting Gf.nir.u W ashino
X TBK a "d his f» mi | y , a || who , e j ei h ( d
M°rc P eady,of dtliV " y b ? the 'i'h *
An unfinilhed imprefllrn it'o be fecn at Mr M'F.I. "
r°^ ,nS '? ,a ' ~to,c No - 7° South Fount, Strc«c "
Ihe subscription will ciote on the lo:h of Mp\rh "
next Subfcubcri may depend on bavini;
Prints at omgumm and ™ half. To non-fubfc iter,, "
the price will be two tuincas, l
February 19.
;r.l neyv-theatr v
T-l 1 *
TO MORROW EVENING, March
rt . Will he preferred the fHAO DVuf
t« The ORPHAN.
With the C"mic Opera of
, The SHIPWRECK.
ar The doors will be opened at half pad
ia '**' thrpertormtnee begin at half pall t*
prcC^fely
liar, one Dollar ; Tit, three quarters a Dol«
lir ; and C»lleiy half a Uollar.
7 Ticket* to be had at H. and P. Rict'i book-store.
»r> No. so Mark-r Arret, and at t e Oftice adjoining
8 the . '"heare FTf'jir ff x? • -n:\r rr.A i
g ! • -n- / y, .uurci a.
p jMr. Bates refpe£tfully informs
j ■ hi* friend* and the public in general, ffaathitper
j formanceof" tL- IV,rid at U Ooes," advertised for
o &«• evening** rcprefentation, is unavoidably port.
■ ponedto
, l SATURDAY Evening-, RJarch io,
„ Hooping Cough, Catarrhs, JJlhmaj, iff?,
n Walfli's Antipertuffis,
IS a fafe and certain enrc for that de ruftive d*f>
order the Hooping Cough The celebritt
which this medicine has nequired in England, ren
»» ders the publication of cases of tare unnecessary
thCT f— b «t a * 'he Antipertuffis h« been but rt*
I centiy introduced into this ceiuntry, it may not he
y ' anifs to puhlift the following enfts, f leifted from
a much greater mmher, as proofs ol rts sfficacy.
" Summer-; ill, Stowbridge, fv'ov. xß,'q2.
| " Sir,
r- " Please to fend by the coach, a farge bottle of
your Antipertuffis. ! have given it to the poor of
neighborhood, by which many have been cur
,l f d of that dreadful diferder the Chincough, and
in flo it fiance hat it failed in giving immediate ro
} lief.
Jl «' I am, Sir, your very obedient Servant,
It GEORGE BRISCOE."
„ s . r " Bath, June 2,
" The cau'e of my troubling you with thi* is,
'• that I thqjight it a duty which I owed to yourfelf
I- ; and to ffeciety, that I Ihould mention the salutary
I- i effea. thit your excellent medicine, ealled Anti-
L . I ptTtfcffis, had upon my cldoft son ; was, about
, two month* ago, affiled with the Hooping Cough,
in a most dreadful degree. My child wa« attend
ed by some of the moll eminent of the faculty here,
T who, for three days, thought him dying ; and was
lt given over. At this time a friend of mine msn
tioned the wonderful cures that had been effected
r by your medicine ; ind though we had no eipec.
' tation that my child could possibly recover, yrt I
r» resolved to try it. I did • and at this time, I hav«
h the haypintfi to fay, lha' he is quite not the
e least symptom of his complaint remaining.
,g " Your's, icc.
" JOSIAH ELLIS TOMKINS."
(London, to wit.)
James Eardley, of No. 4, Poland-street, in th«
!- parish of St. fames, cafce before me this day, and
voluntarily maketh o-th, a-d faith that U* child,
lt a boy about two years old, was effcdtially cured
„ ° r the Hooping (which he was afflicted
with in a most violent degree for fpme month»,
?" ,j?, r which he could g.-r no relief) by Mr,
0 Wallh's Antipertuffis. And this de.onent further
faith, that at the time the child firft took this me .
n ,i ' r '" e > was net expected he could live 5 and tha|
the firft dose, almost immediately, removed fom«
of the most violent symptoms 5 hit appetite,
ftrcrgtii, and fpjrits mended every day ; and tliit
deponent further faith, that three or four hottlei
made a per c < & cure ; and that the child is now in
* as g»od a state of 'health a* it wa« before.
, .. JAMES EARDLEY.
[. sworn before me, this till day of March, ty9s.
Z jJta . T * oma * Dinner, Mayor.
, , 11 So,d ' b y appointment of Mr. W A i.sii.
f!, AW f Co " No " Chef ur street, FhU
• ladelphia in boft'es at dollar* each—Where«,/ v
may be had Lcxng,, <f Coltsfoot, forrererf
- r " U P hs ~of MuJl.nl, for rheun»
1 f Ut ' • l ? n,ba K e - P alf r- numbness, sprains,
and bruises m boxes and bottles at J dollar each—
. s over tip Ointment, an infallible cure for thi liJj at
» """ Smith', celebrated Sfrcifit for the
at T and X dollars the botth
alio, kluHrJhrttivt for ,o n J},tution, at i l-%
do.lart—Norton's Antifcutortic Drop,—Ba'fam of Ho~
«y, for cough*, colds, &c —Church', Cou,;h Dr*s~*
and Gotland's Lotion, for the face and fltin, &c. &.C.
' J"?*'- _th'u ßl t_
Te-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capj,
1 J«nes, frons Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz,
S} of the vintß^ s thl 9C aud
AJ.IO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 170®
rok SALE BV
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Co.
march 7.
nJnkeens.
Ten thousand pleces^Jankens,
FOR SALE on a libera! credit by
J SAxMUEL HAYS,
No ny, Chefnut Street.
jnarehr , od6t
Will be fold on Wednesday thf
2 i lft »), of > '' a,ch ' 1 o'clock in <J:e evening, at
the Merchants' Coffee House, for calh,
A G w'ir '£. thc ia '' Wi " and tc "'ament of
1 Wdhatn Heyftiam, and poficfiioo
g.vcn immediately, a valuable property in Arch.
1 A w /'v, and to,,rth streets . eonfifting
ol the House No 107, wi h the Lot on if
. and*, a Stable n ß d other improvements Th# '
)°ufe is tefcet front and comains ten good apart
®f.rts; ' he lot 15 of tb « breadth as the house,
and ic 9 feet d.ep WJt h a well of water, and a
very capacious walled c.stern, both with pumps i n
comphat repair The flable (lands on the re rof
earriiav "n* commodate four horses and a
uZ S'T^ Is r r °P ffry, y "joys a perpetual privi.
lege of a *6 feet contt and an rlley 8 feet wide cx
t«dmg to Lherry street It,«n t ral pofnion, and
S " r o{reffes W' th to free ven
tilntKin renders it well worthy che attention of
Robert Herfham, or 1 Afting
r ''J Executory
N r T?°J N^ LLLY Co. Ma'n.
ou "; "• V' h f ot,fe . " I j open two previ.
'"fpeaion of thoie who wiflk
,;.f rr ' F - >:.-reh t
FOR SALE, at
vVm. Young's Book Store,
?;• B 7 li f P ' ee V hc CMner of Chefnut street.
P i OR ], of thc Oommittee of the House of
IV Reprffentativesol the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeach™" ,
against VULLI-M BLOUNT, a SenZV ?Z
United State,, dnpegchod of high crimes and
dtmeanors. made in yurfuance of a resolution of
the f oufo of Re[ refentative*, authorizing tl e
Commit tee to f,t during the rec fs ot Confrefv and
itifltUiSing iheqi - to enquire, and, ly all Wf j
» ff dlf " Vtr thr whole nature and ext nt
•• ft 6 t iW Cos tht - ,aid w '»Uiam Blount
"£S n » WdWh#Wt t' ll -' parties andJUoT RECEIVED, c 9"
ANO Fi)K SALEj AT
W. Young's Book-store, f a ,
Corner •/ Chefnnt and Second ttre«ts, ' P''
fPria SO Cent,)
Ca«fes qui ie font oppofecs aux (m
I'rotres du coi.:«i«*rce, entre LA FRANCE et les
11 ATS-UNIS de L'\JVIERIQ£'E.
Avee les Moyens de l'acc6l*rtr ;
£t la comparaifon dc la Dettc Nationale pr
<k l'Angleterre, de la France, and des f«
JETATS-UNIS. fu'
In lix Lettres, addreffies a Monfietirle Mar- co
quis db la Fayitte. Traduit fur le Ma-
nofcrit Anglais du Colpnel SWAN, ancitn
la JLegifliture del* Rtpubliqse
du Mafbihufftt, d !
Le Comnurce eft la portion la plu' importante des
(Riebeffes Nationalcs "
LeTrident do Neptune, eft 1c sceptre du M onde.
LmMiiai. M
Or caufcs that have been opposed to the h'
HR.OGRFSS of COMMERCE botween pi
FRANCE and tU UNITED STATU of AMERICA, d.
With the means «f accelerating it;
And » companion of the National Debts
of P.i'glanJ, France, and Amiricj.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
db la Fayetts.
Tr»nfatfd (in«n French from the original Eng
kih of Col. Swan, form, rly a Mem-
ber of the Leglflature of Maffachuietts.
Commerce j» the molt important portion of the c(
Wealth of Nations. _ tl
The friJent of Neptune is the Sceptre ot
the world. L«"«*«.
AT a junftiue when the question of g
a Commercml Treaty -with France may soon n
become an objeA of difcuflion, rworkof this kind
becomes extremely ufefuf to those titizens ®f the
United States, who may be defir one to enaole them-
f.lves to view this. fubjeA, undents various af
peSs ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furnifted with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufefulnefsof this tratrfaflion.
This work is principally diftißgmlhed by the u
riebnefs of the obfervarions, the pcrfpieuity of the |
Ucas, and the modesty of the theory wh eh * '
contains. At Pars, a »an of wit .M.rved, that
this work was like a rich farmer > barn, hoaped up
to the very roof with nfeful produce. It is addcef ■ a
fed to the unfortunate La FAriTTi, in letters,
which fugitive form, the author who could ohly °
devote a few works to this oecupatipnj was obliged
to adopt. Although circumducts are ill many
rffpeSs different at the present day, ftorn what r
thcT were in the year 1790, when these letter!, 0
were Written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfolttte and permanent data dill remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ;cn the contrary, as'many of F
the alterations, which hav« bean made, are the re
fiiltof the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all traufaaioi.s, between free a
nations, every thing may be expe>Sted from the ef
forts of truth and juftiee.
LETTER I. 1
fteneral'view <jf ths obstacles,"created in France,
to pi event the extension of commerce, with the
United it.it s—Obfervations made in a tour, taken
tor that exproi's purpose, upon lonve French mann
faiturts(a precious fragment this). Eiamination
and refutation of the prejudices txifting in France,
agair.lt the quality of cStain prodttfiions of the ;
United States, and agair.ft the advantages of their ,
importation—Oemonllration of th. bad policy of
laying duties an their importation, principally on
proviGons in general, and on fait provisions, and
fith in pa' ticular —Confederations 011 the regulations
of the French culiom-heules.
LSTTER 11.
Obflaeleo to the extension of h-ade with Fra«-e,
pioceeding fr«m circumftancas and indivi'u'ls n
the United States—Proofs tha. these ohftacles are
on I) temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern
ment—Hilory »f the influence of the .\tnerican
paper money—lmportant principles and abftraft
tonfiderations on money and circulation—Caufcs
of the (lagnation of mericiin trade, afser the
p cace Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condud
of the Frtnoh merchants—Effcfls of good com
mercial laws; ar.d patriotic wishes on thisfubjea—
Observations on money, weights and nicafures.
LETrER 111.
EOayin thefoiis 'f • taiUn, to appraise the im
poitaiions into the United Statei jrtm France and trig-
Umi in-ted. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better lurnilhed from France or
England— It is principally on this fubjeft (which
would haveaitonilbeda meie theorist) that the author
appears toevincegrea:«commercial expeiience. These
kino of laHeaux, uuluckily as 'lifficult to obtain as
they aremuthtobe desired, aiethe only fuie goidce
the fiatefinan can take for the policy of tieaties. de
prived of wliich he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We c-.rr ot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calcuUuons j and alihough
ibe propbtfies of Lord Sb.ffieldha»e already been
eon radifted by experience, and by several able pens,
vet it is curious to lee the author of ibe prelent work,
dispute wiih hiin the only grouod on which he has
. not been hitherto attacked. J>y proring that France,
vinder the icqui ed condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to supply us with (everal articles,
wh.ch the Enjlilh authoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patUdity tjftti on (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
a pdtu J'tycf judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in >;Bg, that is to fay, ata period when arts
and manulaftuies did not present m France the vsft
means and probability of extension which they now
possess. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only bave the means to supply one
half ofanv given quantity of the prodo&ioos of France
an,l t upland united, but also to enter ioto competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of ber government, and ilk induihy
of ber inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportation of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reafom why, notwithstanding the
Cxccll' ut work of Mr. Tench Coxr, Mr. Swan's to-
Hcuu Ts by no means fupeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would fcfult to France from the
importation of provisions and raw matciials, is every
where applied ; % d « is upon this argument, that
the author cftabhincs his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admifiion of the ptoduc
tiontof his country ioto.Francc.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time Opinion! of the author on the finance*. 00 the
efftfisof oational debt, on circulation, Ac. as more
amply deuiled in his National Arithmetic, printed at
Boftoo in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, thejMiblc and private credit
•f the United States—ihe happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifeiics ariGngfrom the public debt in
Europe, aic coottafted in the ablcfl manner, and UP
der the mod linking telaiwns, by very cu ious cal
culations—Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preGde Ovei the public expenses in MalTachu
fetts. In this place the pa'.iiottfm of the author ap
peals, with all the elevation which ajuft oational
pride inlpiies. Theancient goveiiments of Europe,
fayt he, will iearn fiom us the art of economy in
recompensing the feivices which the country recrr.es;
Amc*rjl mil it fee*, that men arechojem Jar placet,
and nit places for men. This letter conciud. s with a
general view of the public piopertv, depoO.cd in the
Bands of the government of the United States.
LETTFR VI.
General exsmination ot the dtftfts of the commer
cial policy of France with refpetf 10 the United Stales;
many of ihefe obfenationa lave produced the cff t it»
for which they w'ere intended, albeit dill remain
pointing out the reforms 10 be made in fuluie, as a
good cbait maski the fii&ali aitd locks, Ihcautbcr
- *
faysot the prefer<" c fM a ditlLoguillied era *1
praise > man when h<l e for .
&»Kt£«."«."- * »
{i,,Ce,, " y • Vote, p.ge 3,Sof.u. work, Ph
. Les h*££ d» iuia-un,., tow* dan, teur
l • 1u 1 _,uij r £» txcttes pir un principe d
* i" hn A i aH,s pour vice " c,a
nouve a centra. «*
server le «euple des intrigues formees pat le gouv n(
fmeir.ent Anglais con,re fa liberie, '« wi
fufpeft a crux qii eto'ent en pouvotr. Le peup e, W(
Scu d. J mem. le cho,f.t pour u, de <
rrprefenrint dan* le premier coi«,res. its
ttftttges.OoKque M. John Adams . dcveloppes ac
~e de paix, qui »'e(t fait a Paris en 1783,
out prouve qu.l'ecoit mi«ifl« auffi habile que grand f
oo iiique. tt aim son auvrage fur la defenle de c.
fiiftnution A roericalne, tf a montae toutes le. can-
oo lfances fl"* torment le» vrais jurifconlultes & les z3
d e lot; connoifTances necelf.ire, poor rem- b)
plir honorablement les fonftions de president du fenat cl
des E*»ts-uni».
A 0 T 1 C E>
_ F'
A Manuf&fory of yellow and delft ware; "
Such as nevrr was in this Country before, has been ( .
been htflv erefled at Tivoli, Red Hock t»ndu!£,
onihe East Bank of Hudlon's River, (lie ot Nc~-
Yoik, whcje any article of vaiious forts and (hapes
may be executed, as well as earthern stoves upon » b
new conlliufliort, that lives three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron (loves or open chy mmes ; u
they are bcfides very wholefottie and ornamental, by c
,pplylDgto J. MOUCHET, «
Wanted a fkillfol hand to attend to the bakinp and 1!
glaaing part of the said ware. Generous appoint, u
menu will be given App'.y '°_ r
DAVID BROOKS, Esq. •
No. 71 South jth Street.
r ( b. -.9- , fOd4W , I
To Be Sold, b
AGREE A ELY to the lad will and reftament of t
Wiluau Hitsham, deceated, and posses- f
Con given immediately, a valuable property in Arch t
street..between Third and.Fourth ILeets, eonfift- t
ingefthehoufc, Mo. 107, with the lot on which 1
it irfere<Sted,-»ftahU, and other improvements.— 1
The(toufc is 10 feet front, and contain* ten good t
. apartments, tic lot is of the fame breadth as the j
houfc an J 109 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious .walled cittern, boch with pumps ■
[ in gosp repair. The stable (lauds #n the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car- I
riage. This property enjeysthe perpetual privilege i
i of al6 lett court andan alley, 8 feet wide,est■
kg to Cherry Str«et. Its central position and the ]
t sdvuitages it poffeffee with refpeA to free ventila
: tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any 1
f person wi(hing»o poffef»*n niigible property i* Phi
lade!phia,
For further particular# enquire at No 88, Vine
; 9treet —of
ItOIE&T HtYSHAU,
or V A'fling EiMcutori.
FRAN"CIB BOW»S SAYRB, )
, January II § _
; NOTICE.
n \LL persons who have any demands against
:, J\ ths estate of Willam FlseWtood, of
e Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
r ceafe<l, are reqtiefted to exhibit their accounts,
'f properly atteilcd ; aad those who are indebted
" to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, te
" GEO. DOBSON, > .. . - n ,
No. ij. So. Third-street. ) ddmimjlr r
liriuiry 4. . . dtf
m T Ran away from lR' SulfcrJUer,
•« On the a 4V K . January lafl,
'• A Black Woman, named Zelimt.
QHE is ol a middluig Caed stature, thick lips,
'» O marked with the Cnall pox in the face—She
carried off a bindl- of linen with her. Whoever
■~ 5 takes her up and brirgs her to the fubferiber, at
le N# lß£, Arch-flr et, corner of Fourth street,
(hall receive two Dollars reward
- 1 J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever hirborb f id Girl aiter this no
tice, (hall be pr«feeffEed to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10.
n- Ne<w-York, "January 14,
g- PROPOSALS
0 C ; By Arondt Van Hook,
:h Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
or For Publilhine by Subfeription,
as An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
e« By Madame Roland ;
c " Wife «f the Miaifter of the Interior in France.
:1 - CONDITIONS.
X J These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
|n moirs, (which ran through two London «di
a<i tionsin a few months,) will be comprised in 1
k, vols, oflavo, of 400 pages each.
,as will be primed On fine paper and a new
-e, type, and delivered to Subfcribcrs, neatly bound
>' e and lettered,-at 1 dcllar and so cents per vol
ume—one- third of the SubfctipMon monty tohe
paid on delivery of the firA volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
an To Fnntcrs, Booklellers, and others, who
rl , acquire Sukfcriptions, the usual allowance will
•ft be made.
>w gT Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
»t Room, No 149, Water street—the Printing-
Office, 149,. Pearl-flreet—and at the different
Bookflores in New-York- Also, by William
on Young, corner f Second and Chefout street, ind
on the Editor of the Gazette «f the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficiemt number of Subfcriber<
e», are obtained, the work will be put to prrfs, and
to compleated with the utmost difpatcb.
'be Feb. ao. eodim
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIQI\- '
A NEW AND JNTEIFSTINC WORK, ENTITLID,
5 0. A TREATISE
uc ' ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containißg a derail of the various crirrcs and mif
hai demeanor*, by which public aivJ privatepropar
the ty, arc at present, injured and endangered :
or e And fuggeiling remedies for their prevention.
»T A MAGISTRATE,
AAinj for the counties of Middltfex, Surry, Kent,
■tU aud ! f or the cits and liberty of Weftmin
m ftcr ; anil for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
jh- dcn
:al- CONDITIONS,
my TWs work will be printed in a large oclavo, on
hu- an excell«nt Eng.ilb paper—lt will be delivered to
•p- fubferiherr, bound in boards, at the moderate price
ir ' J l of 0»e DoDjr mnia half; although tht last London
P r » editjon, 0* inferior £*per and meanly bound, is
now fold at ♦wo dollars and a half. Tonon-fub
ftribers the price will be raised.
h"' Whatever encouragcmoct may be given by fub
he fcription, it will be committed to 'he prafs without
dehy ; and, birring accidents, will be roauy fcr
publicitior early ui April,
er- .~:*bfcriptioi:s wiil be thankfully rrcjivedat
tI . Binjauin EAVira's's book-floie, No 68, High
fli street, ar.d by m~ft of the other btokfrllers iff the
in Clt V •ty in Baltimore; and by Sam
, a Canspbel!, and A. Diuo.ciond, te Ncw-Ycrk.
■cr January 31. MwtA
' be
• PROPOSALS, ne
*V THF f v .
Insurance Company sf North America. f n
For iMitJRANCt Firf, ® n .® wellin s" ~i
Houses, Ware-Hcufet, and other B.uldmgs (and
00 Goods contained ». such dlftant from
Philadelphia, in the United States. G
I. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous or
rifqJs a larger P r«r.wm will be required, which
will vaty according to
eeeding one per cent, per annum j but m some m
nances, where the property insured |» not only m th
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so ta
by the vitiaity of exua-iwiriiw* but dmjs and m
occup - tions. the premium demanded will be raised di
according
Ho«le» and Wart-Houses, the walls and part - bt
tior.of -whiSh are wholly of (tone or brick, w«l
c. r.-ltruAed, so ass) b ? guarded as well as may be
-eh,ft fires from within, and tree irom extra ha- q
rardous buildings and occcupattons in their neigh-
will k- deemed bazarJviUs of. the urn
elafs, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Good* and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or paciwgos, de
pofuod in such buildings, to an amount uot ex- I
ceeding 4000 dollars; but if more than tmsfum tc
is required to be insured 111 one tenement, an addi b<
tional premium will be required, in proportion to j
ciriumllaoces. ' . L
11. lefurances will also be made on buildings and t)
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned j £
to tharifque. But it is i\ot easy to arrange tlu se c(
under particular heads or classes, so as to dcfcribe
each with th« neeeffary accuracy. Each caf- mutt
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
' stances attending it ; and thefc circumstances will,
in geaeral, appear from the description acccmpa-
uytng thsspplication.
Buildings partly e inftniitrd ef brick or none,
are preferable to those wholly woodei". And in _
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are flouted, the neighboring
" buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be tafcui into view. And wkh refpeft tsgoods,
f their"'tendency, whether from their nature, or r
- from the manner in which they are expoftd, either
1 to commence or to increase an accidental fire, atid (
■ their lisbditv- in such Itate to receire damage by v
1 wet, or by sudden ar:dhaftT removal, or to be tto- b
len in time of confufion and hyrry^ are all p
1 cumflanccs of weight ; and the pfemiuths mud be c
c proportioi>ed accordingly. t
i 111. The following cenditiont are to be under- I
s stood hy'the parties. {
f 1 ft. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu- j
- | lat«d premium be paid ; but it Hi all be deemed eft
e I fed ual from the time of such payment and accep- 1
- -ance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
e sighed or nbt.
1- ad. Infurancel maybe renewed at the eicpira- ,
y tion ef the term 6f the p«licy, without further ex
i- penfe* than the payir.est of the premium of the re
newed tcmi.the circumstances continuing the fanw
ie as they were nnderftood by the Infuri rs at the time
the former infuranee was mad« ; but the payment
of the premium is essential to such renewal; and
1. if the party iriuredfuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former infuranee, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
~ during luch time ; nor can the infuranee be renew
ed en the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
A of the former infuranee. The fubjeit of insur
ance may neverthtlefs be open to treaty for a new
e infuranee.
jd. If any other infuranee be made on the fame
J property it muil be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
,e piicarioo will be void.
4th Ooodji held in trust, or on consignment,
r way be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
they are not to be cor.fidered as insured »t her wife.
This eomoanv will net be liable or aeepun
taSle for any lols or damage oceafiQnerßy assy for
eign invasion, or by any military or ufsrped force,
Or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
' ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept >n the biiilding, or amongll the pro
perty insured. j
er 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu- 1
at rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
ct ' miffory Notes, are not included in any infuranee;
nor are paintings, -nedal«, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
o ty-five dollars each, to be conlidered as insured un
w. less particularly mentioned and by fpeeial agree
ment.
jgl 7th. No infuranee will be made for a ftierter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vc» years. Persons choofipg to inf«re for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premiam-by way
of difeour.t: One third of a years premium Ihall
be abated in like' manner on an infuranee for
v three years.
*' Btb. 'l.offes futlainedby fire an property insured,
lhall be paid in thirty days after due -pro-jf and li
e. quidation thereof, without deduSion.
1 A description of the property to be infurod will
Ie- be expefted with each application, to be made by
di- a mailer carpenter and figrled by him, as well as
2 by the owner of the building ot applicant for in
furanee, and attefled before a Notary or principal
ew Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
n( j parties and their credibility.,
ol- With refpeiS to Houses and other Buildings,
be ift. The site and pnGtkn ; defcr'ibing the
re- street or road on or near which the buHding
stands ; its continuity to water, and other cir
ho cumftances relative to the extinguilhment.of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are ellablilhed, and
ig- engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood,
ig- ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
:nt ther of brick, ftoncor wood, and what part of
»m each, as well as to the ouiiide walls as infideor
nd partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
es, thickness; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; hew secured by battlements or pac
ers ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
nd house and to the chimnies j whether any and
what eletHric rods ; the rilimber jnd kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to j'jdge in what
*d, manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
Injury ; the age and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any" other, and for what pur
aif- pose ; also an eftitnate of the value of the house
ir - or building independent of the ground.
4th. The Gtuatioii with refpeti to other build
'• ings or back 1 buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one iiuiidred feet
: P ( , each way -. what kind of buildings are within
im " that diftaece, how built, of .what materials, and
0B * how occupied or improved, whether ar dwel
lings for piivate families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
pn x ; e d on, and particularly whether there be any
t0 extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo-
J ,ee filed in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind,
ub- Kt( P e^'n g^ o# ' / - f in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
I. A peneial description of the building in
üb. wr icb thc y are kept will beexpeaed, similar in
out r ffp f,^! »as to the danger from fire, with that
:'cr required for Infuranee on the buildings them
feives.
1. A description of the kinds and nature of
>h- the goods, whether in calks er other packages,
ihe °r opened ; and whether displayed in whole
m- pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
rk. if the goods vary materially in kind, a~ general
estimate of the value of cash kind ptopofed to
he insured s but in the lift particular miaute
ness of defcriptKiii i» not exj>e<s*ed. Ai
, Articles of the followi.g kinds are deem
'ed extra hMardous, th.ugh .n ramus degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz. (1
nitch tar, turpentine, rol<n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable fpirils, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
(irv good, ot an inflammable k«d opened. [
Glil, china ware or porcel.m, un
naked- Looking glafle»,jewelery; and alio- £
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable, b ,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by fud- Gl
den removal or bv n>. >ur or particularly g,
obnoxious to * 1 °£ r
Letters, - the Secretary of C (
the Board : T
to. An.;-. '■ ompjoied by the th«
meai«a/p , will br ,«m,e- fer
dialfly exec ' If £
the applica. fj lC wIU £
be anfwere*
B\ v-..k. lieard, "
EBENiiZKR HAZARD, Sec ry.
Office cfthe Infsrance Company of Nort'i ) 5
America ; Pbdad. Feb. i, i/9 8 " > %.
Feb. 14-
To be Sold, tie
A BRICK HOUSE, together With the Lot j. th<
thereto belonging, m the city ot Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three rooms |At
below, and three chambers in the tipper ttory. ,
The kitchen adjeining is a frame bud ing. Ihe J
Lot has a front ef 7 a feet on Pearl-street, and j
the fame front on the river Delaware. The .
length of the Lot is about ajo feet— Hie ho»le j
commands a very plea (am profpedl of the river,
and ufn* Borough ofß-iftot, on the Pennsyl
vania hiore. Immediate pofleffi»n may be bad. i».
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John I
Sims, neit door below the City Tavern 111 Phi- i D,
ladtlphia, or the fobferiberin Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE. ; ~
Burlington, march t. *e»jiw
Valuable Property for Sale.
A
fok.SALE,
THAT well known Eftaie, called SHREWS- 1
BURY irAMvf, formerly the residence of J
Ginttarjoliß Bad Matter, fruate on Saffafrai Ri- i R
vcr, in Kent comity, Maryland—cantainini a- i xi
b«ut IW aCf*i of prjnie LAND, upwards qOob 1 c
■ 0 f wht'h arc *» ■*(<<;& ' Tne Buildings are all ex
: ct : K'iit, and ennfiftef a handf-imc Dwelling House, ji
twTfi?fe KanT-'wlh Cow houses, Stables for fifty
■ boric-, a fp-cious treading floor under cover, a
eranar', two Overseer's houses, .two ran
.ges df-w® llory buildings for Negroes (one of
thena lew and of brick), Corn hotifes, a Smoak 4,
- house ,Scc. &c—The whole Mate being nearly e <
f furrouitied by water, it requires but ittle fencing, it'
and has a good Shad and Herring SOury. ft is p
- conventiltly situated for both the Philadelphia and p
- Kaltimtre markett, with two landings on a navi
- gable n't r but a (hort fail from Baltimore. There
* is a krg Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on E
e the pienifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of 1"
t different kinds. The foil is moflly a rieh loom.—
d The whoe will b« fold together, or divided into
r smaller sams (for which the buildings are conven- f
e iently fituited) as may suit the purcbafer. lhe e
d Sto«k on fiid Farm, consisting ot Horses, Cattle, r
- Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of.——For further a
® particulars apply to George Hastings, on the ,
n premises, »r to the subsc r iber, in Philadelphia. 1
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jo». . 1
" February 24. >aw few .
ie Hoafe and Lots, in BorthnTown. \
)f f"pO BE SOLD, ahandfome two lH>ry House, ,
>- 1 with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, fituat- <
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy (
t. Village sf Uordctitown. The house is forty 1
lt two feet in Trout, and in neat order. The lot
contain* one acre, and is«ne hundred feet on
U_ ftro-t. ar.H expends with the fame <
r * breadth to back ttrcet. Alfora-rargrtin, luu«
tainiag nearly fdUr acres, feparattd from the
former by back street. One third only of the
ie purchase money will be required upon execut
! inga deed, and for the remainder, such credit
u I wll be given as the purchifer may chufe. This
0 _ ' property v'ill be fold free of all incumbrances,
.. I and an mdifputable title given,
jg For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
n _ William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
n . the premises, who will Ihew the fame, or of
:e- PETER* THOMSON,
Conveyir.cer, No. 144, Market-ftiett.
er December 3. . 3awtf
en , Just Published,
ay And t» be had at the Book-Aures of Messrs. Doß
ail sow, Campbell, Young and OrmkoD,
or in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
'd. On the Caules and Cure of Remitting »t Bilious
Fevers.
T« •which if annexed t
AN ABSTRACT of the op nion; and pradliceof
y diff rent authors : and an - PPENDIX, exhib
as iting intercCing fails and refledi«n« relative to
ln " the Synochut JBcroiiti, or Yellow Fever, which
3 _„has fo much difttefi and mortality,
hc at dJFcrtnt.iperiods, in several of the seaport
towns of theT'nited Urates of America.
by WILLIAM CURR.IE,
he Felew of^the Pliilarieli-hia toltrge of hyftriam,
tig ami Member bt the nmerican PhiU.ophical So
lr- «i«ty. Feb. I—*3m§
" t e r Bafkenridge—for sale
rid
id. TT confißs of 910 acres, almofl ail of which is
ie- I a fide rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
of Karl of Sterling). It may be conveniently fhxided
or into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
f,,] East by the river Pafaiek.
ut Th r» are on it a number of forming
Jr . afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
jj e is a very convenient one anda fmallexptnce would
n( j put it in complete repair.
The orchard conufls of ijoo fintbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is.on other pirtsoi said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
0 belt and snoft delicious kinds.
ja |. , Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
°* Forest Tre&s, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
e '- from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth :10 do.
H r " from Morris-Town, and It from Springfield—lt
ul'e is wooded andwatered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
Id- in eafli, on delivery of the deeds. Please to tn
or quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
ett No. 78, Chcfiiut treet.
bin February a. eodtf
~ COLUMBIA HOUSE
he- Boarding School for young Ladies,
ar- OROOMBRIDGE with pleaf
iny IVI ureand refpetfl, returns her sincere ac
po- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
re- she has received during four years reiidence in
Philadelphia; an<! afTures her friends and the
kc. public, so far frdio intending t« decline her
in school, £he has made a superior arrangement for
ir. the more convenient accommodation of her
bat scholars.—Every kranch of ufeful and polite
m- education ia particularly attended by Mrs.
Grooinbridge and matters excelling in ftieir
of refpeflive profeffionji
es Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
b!c June sth, 1797. j imftf
nri The fitaation is perfeilly feealkhy : and made
ral more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
to 1 of ground adjoining the house.
THIS DAY IS OFENvr
Aud for fait by WILLIAM YOLNy -
corner of Second and Chefnut-llr*u ' 5% '
In one large volume, S vo
f Price of the KMtly w> j
tints ; fni ditl§, in boards, $ dollars)
AMERICAN GAZETTEFR
in alphabetical order
J.more full and accurate Account 't,
been given, of «ir States, Province, ' r
Cities, Towns, Village., Ri ver9i flay, M
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Fort, " '
Tribts, and New Discoveries, on the A ME- •
CONTINENT, also of , he w.S ' ''
and other lflapds.apptndant to the Cdmiu '
thole newly diicpvered Jn the Pacific Oeea ' r
fcnbing tiw Extc»t, Boundaries, Pnp„l atiol J*
r™! ,e ?V ProdujSlions, Commerce, M»n u l
CurvoCt.es, &c. of thc-fevfirSr CoGhtfV,
tl-eir important Civil the
' t"de and Latitude, the Bearings aud Di . 1 "
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns , -
lages with a particular Description of V
£'" Wfosn Territory. The whole co ni n n (
wardspf Seven Thouland diftina Articles '
Collected and compiled from the belt A •- '
tie, and arranged with great care, by, lw j
i the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, ».
: Author of th« American Univtrialogr' ah*—
Fellow of the imencar, Academy of 4*' t «a *
i Sciences— and Momber of tba Maff» c h u r ett , u ?r
I torical Society.
pilluftrated with seven new and Beat
(Publijbed according to of Congrrfs.J
i FOK. SAL E i as above,
Mr. Morse's Univerlal Geography
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 a O U. '
Ditto, abridged, at I dollar.
1 February 26. to4t
Netu-Tork, February, 1708
. PiJOm^SBYGEORGEFORMAN,
FOR printing by subscription,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex.
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFSof aCONSPIRAGY against
all theß<£igiens and Governments of EU
-1 RO r 'E, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
I lc&ed from authorities, v "—*ir? r J
By JOHN ROBISON, A. m.
ProfeJJor of Natural Pbilofopby, and Secretary Utk
Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agllur paries cum proximus arid.
THIS work will be put,to prefsas fodn a »
400 fubferibers are obtained, andno money requit
ed until the work & completed.—lt (ball be print.
«d with an elegant new tyjpe, and en :iper of fti.
perior quality, which will comprise ah out 40c
pages neat ovSave, handfoiuely bound and lettered
—the price will be oae dollar asi fifty cent?.
These who procure 12 fat fcriSiers, and become
accountable, shall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to bookfellert.
1 *,* The above work comes from the pen of J
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gent!e *n in high
: eftjmatioii in the literary world —the fa&sthereir
> recorded are well fui ftantiated, and taereafoninj
" and arguments thtnee deduced, while thej_£ifco
' vcr the found judgment and of th<
writer, are caleu' amule s well at ' r> ipj
ftrudi. A fccOe of villainy is eveloped by -hf
,_»otls6r fufficient to appal the fi»uteft heart ihi
danger to be apprehended from secret focic-its 1
clearly pointed out ; the degeriar .cy pfhsmMito
> ture awfully illustrated, ina thr haz i6■ vcp
- deviation rem the straight path of religion itaf
J of virtue, incontcftibly proved bo;h to the politi
/ ciac and the chriUiaa by stubborn and uiconfre
t vertable f;6b.
1 fHubfcriptions taket in by G. Formal*, No 46
■' tWilliam -Jlreet. opposite the Pjl-Qflice. and l>y the rrfpec
■ I it/nfi'.i a jv"— M Ytrkmmd Philtuiilpbia.
e February 28. _
8 Salisbury Estate.
s r*HE Sabfcribcr, propoGflg to contnft his bufi*
i ness, offers this Eftj't -or falc, oa modhr»«
' terms. On it are one Btaft and three Air Fun.acts
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good griH
"* Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good t'orge, al
r in pericft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with thtfe various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built Jor the purpose of casting Caunot
for this State.—There are abou< two thousand
of JLand, one half of which is under wood, the oinei
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay ao<?
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannlaC'urcd
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ii
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-oiQe g«ni
lauly made, although some of the 94 were bored
int« 32 pounders, have tailed on proving. The fi'u
us ation :s very eligible, particularly for this branch ol
manuta&ure, aad a place of arras lying in the ftatc
of Conne&icut. and only 30 miles frf m fcveral land'
of iugs on the Hudson's river, and having every
b. tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
to from 9 large natural pond, very near the Funnace,
l and which may be converted into a variety of othet
w ufeful purposes. The pu,rchafer can beaccommodat
' ed wiih all the ftockand titenfils, and.havc poliellion
r on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in tbe mean id me for going into Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good wuFlom* nC x jj'
o- terms, aprply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, m PhiladqJ
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentawvef
in Congress lor this State ; M r > Savid Vateiman, «n
the prenvifes, or to tbe propnetor in T
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. gawtf _
Wanted, to Hire,
he A I>arge ane convenient HOUSE, in or near
jljL the centre of the city—for whidh a generous
ng rent will be given ; to be taken lor ay**; 0
ife more fori longer term. Inquire of tbtf Fnn tr.
.id oa. ij. ?^L.
, f . FOR SALE,
.id Several fonts of Types —half worn.
Including Long Primer, abaut 4°® WC 'S
he good condition, and would answer the purpo e
a country Printer as well as new.
nd Enquire of the Printer. r
' es City Office,
° u January nth, 179*-
:re for thi information of th£ cittjin*.
;n- nPHE following arrangement is tnare by tne
1 said commiffionersj at c ' can in E
et. ftreets.&c. c\r,r,r
D;f,ria No. I.—From the north fide of* l "*
flreet, to the south fide ol Mulberry
be under the f>'perin!cnda«e of;MV" "' >»£
!S. a. From the south fide ot Mulbrry to
as- the south fide of Ciefnut ftrreet, to be under
ac- fuaerintendance of William Mo ul er
:Dt 3. From the south fide of Chefnut J"
in the north fide of Spruce street, to be under _
he fuperintendance of Joseph L,a >" P OO /' t o the
ler 4 . From ,he »orth fide of Spruce '
for south fide of Cedar flrce, to be
her perjntgndjr.ee of Hugh Rober
lite y u jt Publi/hed,
And to be had cf Messrs. rt*
f ' r Cary, and the other ? ri«£
city .price cue dollar, tw inty-five cent",in
• New Views of the Origin ot the
ide Tribes and Nations of America.
lot : By BENJAMIN SMITH BAM ON, M.
June 10. .