of t|je Winim States, AND jP hiladelphia Dally Advertiser*
NUMB EH 1672 j
Cuftom-H •ai fe Sales.
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798.
ON Monday, chc 2g/h of January, 1798, at 12
o'clock, will be lold by public au&ion, at the
Cuftoai-Houfe, in purfmnce of the laws in that (cafe
made and provided, the following articles of mer
chandize,, having been stored more than nine months
and not claimed by the owners or conligncet thereof;
which articles may be viewed during the space of
thrcsdays antecedent to the day of sale, between the
of nine and two o'clock.
FCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
MpC One cafe, containing Books and Pamphlets
R P Three casks, containing Girth Web
\DU) One calk, containing Spades and Shovels
V/ Four calks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Beans ,
IS One keg of Red Lead)
<> WC One crate of Earthen Ware
B.TM Two do. do.
v\VL One do and two cases containing Images and
o naments for building
fNo niarkj Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB One cafiv ol Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing pieces of
Mu(k
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Au'olcy One box of Pamphlets
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine
U > One box of Pewter Lamps
B One/box containing Brushes
G Borland. "Onecalk containing ajchecfe and some
xjatmeai
yR One crate of Earthen Ware
R. 14. One crate of Earthen Ware.
Jon, 13 £129
THE
INTENDING to leave this country in the cowrfe
-of tLg summer for Europe (it he compleats the
frttlement of his affairs by that time) and where it |
U probable he may reside as a merchant—requests 1
every man who has any demands againfl him to
come forward therewith, in order that a final set
tlement may take place
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1798-
TO BE SOLD,
On FRIDAY, the 30th of March next, at his
dwelling- house in Chefnut-ftreet, four doors a
bove Tenth-street,
All his houfhold and kitchen
Furniture Plati, &c. &c. and which may be view
ed every day for three days before the sale, from
fen o'clock in the morning till one o'clock, and
from three o'clock in the a'ternoon till night.
t TO BE SOLD BY PRIVATE SALE,
And if not fold by Saturday, 17th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
in Walnut-street, two doors below Fourth-street;
in now occupied by Dr. Stevens for one year fr®m
4th November last, at the rent of 4001. per annum;
it was rented at the time of the late fever, ®r it
would have brought, I think, more. Fhe two
Stables in Watnut llreet will be set up separately
or together ; the largest one now rents for 551. the
l>naikiL£or 45J. per annum, and they are arched
and laid in mortar and two inch plank» aiul the
cellar will hold about 100 pipes of wine, which I
■was once offered 601. per annum for. A large Store
iu Fourth street, 33 feet front by 5° s ect deep, a
good yard and necessary belonging to it; on this
itore is a grtJund rent of 11 doll - . 75 cents per ann.
this building is rented to the public for eighteen
months at 25c!. per annum, and tkc rent was paid
down ; it might have been rented at the fame price
for threeyears, but I declined it least it hurt
t4*e sale. A lot in Fourth street, ao feet front by
50 feet deep, on which is a ground rent of 6 dol
lars per annum; it has the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoining the lot.
Should it make any difference to the purchaser,
Mr.Meade will endeavor to prevail on Dr. Ste
vens to give potfelfion sooner, if he can with con
venience.
PAYMENTS.
Approved notes and indorfers at 6, 9, I 2 and 18
month® ; the deed to be lodged with Win. Tilgh
man, Esq. till the notes are paid : On the house,
Edward Stile% Efq ha* a mortgage for 1630!. On
the (tables, Mr. Samuel Williams for 3001. Thcfe
funis may lay as long as the purchaser pleases, pay
ing the interest regularly.
For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh
man, Esq. or to the fubferiber, Chefnut, four
doors above Tenth-street.
GEORGE MEADE.
Tradts and Lots of Land,
Of an excellent quality.
No. I. Four hundred and thirty acre»of excel
lent Land, on the waters of Back creek, Freder
ick county, Virginia, on the great road leading to
South branch, about ten miles from Winchel!er;
one hundred aires of which is rich bottom ; a fine
ffream running through it, with several fj rings ;
the trees in the bottom are chiefly sugar maple,
black walnut, hicory and locufl; there is a log
dwelling and out houfe3, some meadow made, and
about forty acses of upland cleared ; on this trail
there is a good mill feat, where an under-fbot mill
might he creeled.
No. 1. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two
miles from Woodflock; part of this trail is in
cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good quanti
ty of meadow may be made.
No. 3. Two thousand five hundred acres on the
waters of Hewes' river, Harrifon county, date of
Virginia.
No. %. Four hundred acres, in Bald eagle town
ihip, Northumberland county, ilate of Pennfylva
mia.
No: 5. An half acre lot in the town of Rich
mond, Virginia.
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE,
The following tra£ts of Land.
*>o,cooac.'ciof landin Washington county") State of
j74,c00 do. Montgomery J Georgia
3 r,oj] do. Oraftgebugh diflrict ") State of
Ti do. Charleflon J So. Car.
<ia,coo do. on the Alleghany river J State of
54,c00 do. Weflmoreland county J Penn.
41,900 do. W) the, W'alhington, 7 State «f
and Grayfon counties j Virginia
20 QOO do. in Bedford county.
All which he will fell on the mod reasonable
terms, and but very little money will be required,
the remainder may |ay upon credit for 1,1, 3, or
4 yi ars, security being had upon the lands.
January 13. dt»7th
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types —half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
i;ood condition, and would answer the purpose of
country printer as well as new.
.Enquire of the Printer. Nov. 30.
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY EVENING, JAm ART i 3, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-ll reet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. I. A two flory brick Hone, with t two
story frame Buildings,oll a lot 20. feet front :»nd,
100 feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet Iquare,
with the privilege cf an alley to gu thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 200 dollars per an
num, and is firuated in Chriftian-ftrcet, between
Front and Second-streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. %. A three story brick House, fi.tuate at
the north «aft corner of Chefnut ftreels, being 14
feet on Second-flreet, and 20 feet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the bell (lands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 10a feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This house is built and finifhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole, Thei eis a cittern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fert let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes!
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb-flreet, between Second and Third street,
being 20 feet front and 13# feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-flreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five ftary. It is it
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafli,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
- and one quarter in 12 months.
~ To be fold, :
AM F.I.EGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an 3pple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July 11,1797, the fame
haviog been 1011. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
ROSS ilff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SAtE,
A few bales Baftas, Goflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAk, in bags and box»s
Jamaica,"'
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, end
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oil. 27. §
Chocolate and" Milliard,
of 3 superior quality manufa<ftured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine,
luitaMe for exportation or heme coßfumptioß.
The highest price given for Mu(!ard-Seed.
Alfa for sale, A quantity of Bocking 'and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; .1 bale of
Fuilians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-ftreet.
no-v. 27. m.&th.t.ij.
Canal Lottery? —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezOth
inft. Tickets for this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wai. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept ioi*rtgifler
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafhin'g
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mofl of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
£ lling~~all kinds of Public Stock and
discounting "Bills and iMotes "of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will lie duly attended to,
by Wm. ELACKBURN.
November 15. §
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ot Vocal and inflrumental Music,
KETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
ty, and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub
liegcnerally, that, in consequence of the roqueft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at his houfa in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach or the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.—
He deems it unnecessary to enlargi upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inflituti
011 of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aIT mbiy, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame object. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
andGentlsmen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit houft, where his terms and further parti
culars may be know n.
Dec. 7. *rweod
NOTICE.
ALL persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the f»l;fcriber intends co apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned 101 l certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addrciled to
John Anfley,of London, by thejhip Bacchus, capt.
George, which Feft this port in June last for Lon
don. But that ihip having been captured on her
paflage andfentto France, the above letter and m
clofures have failed in their destination.
Three certificate/?, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofa, Great BVitain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, ncvember 8* 2aw6\v
By John'Fenno, N O, 119 Cbejnut Street.
Nicklin Griffith,
At their Store on Wah.ut StreetVVhjrf—
HAVS FOR CALH,
5? hhds. of Jarruica Hum
MadeiVa Win* In pip« 3 and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhdi.
Tei in quarters and ft thefts
Sail Canvals, Na. I, to 8 - '
Dimities, Ginghams, ami MuSinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Wefl India market
Nails ailorted
Black quart bottles '
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow echre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, onboard the
fliip Diana, from Liverpool, efcpecled round
as soon as the navigation u, open*
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coils
Spanish Brown •
Venetian Red j
Purple Brown PA IN T S
Patent wnite
White lead
Red lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
Ship Diana,
F°r Sale or Charter.
A L S ®, w
Brig Amazon.
N B. The late firm of Rbilip Nicklin c 3" Co.
i ilJJow than*ed to \
NieiCLIN GRIFFITH.
Jahuiry i. eOTftf
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
■ _ The fall failing ship
SWIFT PACKET,
a• v"} Patrick Griuben, Master,
Ip^jtNOW lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—has handfomc ac
commodations for paffeagers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Master onboard, or to
N. iff J. Frazer,
No. 95, Soqth Front Street.
IVhs have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina ladige, Molafles in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. &c
December 27 3tawtf.
For Charleston,
J— rj, THE SHIP
VENUS,
1 I-y tK £ ibc "■vbjrJ of Mejfrs. Pcrotts
4 QHE will take Freight on very
- aSSc (J low terms, and fail the firft
opening. Apply to the master on board, or to
Jos. Anthony & Co.
Detewberig . .... §
Far Amfterdain,
1 -■*& The Ship
farmer,
John M!Co , liom, Master; ,
WfLL fail m a few days, the
part o£ her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or paf
ftge, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
(lreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the f,iid Ship, from Bo.nr
deaux, an<j For S»le,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac, }
Sauterne, S Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. $
For Londonderry,
~ THE BRIGANTINE
s V KEY,
William Whitt*n, Matter.
A strong vefiel, about two
; hundred tons, to fail with JtH convenient speed, a
[ great part of her cargo engaged—-now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lan<}snherger s wharf .
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three huudred tons,
,nov ! 8. §
For Sale or Charter,
JGOOD HOPE,
!Will carry about 1«oO barrels,and
SMBE&l?? '* to fake in a cargo. For terms
•«i X. apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A nsw ve^el, with ejtceUe!,t
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to
Who have to
A fmali invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November I%r $
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. HASTiE,y"roOT Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in baficct, of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,'
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes ol Bourdeaux Brandy,
Fur tin I' by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharv«s.
Who has idfo for Sale,
A few <jr. Calk* Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. >. d«w
Salisbury Ellate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to contra? his hufi-.,
nefg, offers this Elhte tor faie, on moderate
terms. On it are one BlaA and three Ajr Funiaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good gnfc
MiW, with two pair oj ftoaes ; ajfb a good Forge, all
»n perfcel repair, as are all the Water Works conned
cd with these vaiious branches. The Air
wtre Utcly built tor tftc purpose of casting Cannon
for this Sute.—There «re at>ou: iwa acres
of. Lwid, one half of whick uunSet vwijoc', r
very fine arable La«d., pvodttp#| the oev and
Pafiure. The Cannon lately mannfaclured there,
tally proves the £gdeU«tacy. of the meiai, which is
superior to any in this country, and probabiy» equal
to any in the world ; lor not one of sixty-nice guns
lately made, aithougn some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have faiWd on proving. The fru
ition is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of aims lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 aaUcs from Icveral laod
ings on the Hudson's tiver, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ilfuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of ot 'yr
ufeful purposes. The purchafrr can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek and utensils, and have paffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may*be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait wili be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Scc. &c. For
termi, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, E r q. one of the Repretentawves
in Coogrefs for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premises, or to the in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. gawrf
NOTICE.
ALT. persons who have any demands against
ths estate of Willam Flkewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelted ; anrt those who are indebted
to the fame, are defned to m*ke immediate
payment* to
GEO. DOBSON, \ ~ ■„ ,
No. 45, So. ThirJ-ftreet. ) m,n l r r-
January 4. dtf
dancing" sciiooir
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
mtjft refpe.-lful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, aad re
turns his most , grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twentjr-fivcyears pall, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Foarth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walcut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
For Sale hy the Sublcribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Boutdeaux Brandy
Teneriffe Wine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogshead of paiit
N. Is? J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim.
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a bandfome two {lory House.
with the Lot on which it is erected, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The liehfe is ftirty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
olteicre, and is one hundred feet 011 the main
ftredt, and extends with the fame breadth tehack
' flreet. Also, a large Lot, containing neatly four
. acres, feyaratod tfotft the former hy back street.
One third only of the parchafe money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will he given as the purcliafe
,er may chufe. This property will be fold free e
. all incumbrances, and an indisputable title giveaf
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refuting in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-ftrect.
December 1. 3awtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and iz—
back of no. 52, iouth Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eod^w
Prison iVi anufactory.
v for Sale,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of ail sizes, from 3dy toaody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddlc and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadiers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Itones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, tacia, window fiiji, c .
All which may he had on reafor.able terms,
shnes made and Weaving done at laid Prison at
1 a moderate price.
Orders from a dillanc**, direilcd to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prif<?n, will be attended to.
December a 6 mth6m
Imported inthertiipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. JI, Walnut Street.
Bonrdeanx Brandy
Irith market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
> Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cafics
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
TO LET,
A front Parlour, suitable for
an Office ; a Room, lurnilbedor unfurnilhud ; and
a large Cellar, whirli will fcrve either for (lorage
or a bottlingj cellar. Enouire at no. 14, South
Fifth-fircet.
Boarding and Lording to 1 e had- Enquire as a
ove. , J<iti 6.—*jt
vVar-Office of the United States,
Jnnuary thr \Ji y 1798.
WHEREAS fnruds hay«c been pravflifed, in
ofuainin , Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the Ofi&cer* and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the proriu&jon of forgtd instruments.
! » cfredi in future fucb impofmons, it has been
thought a ivifcabJe ; that all perfoijs, having claim?
for bounty lands whether in their own right, as
legal rcprefcaptive, or by virtue cf any instrument
or dfced o; tr-sii»?er, be reqq."*rcd to forward their
f'foe&ive claims to the War Office, on or before
the firft day ot January 1799 in order that such
cfcims may be duly examined, adjured and deter
mined upon
-1 o fubfrantiatefuch claims, a ftrt& observance of
the fules heretofore illued from the War Office will
be indiipcniable ; and in addition to what is require
edl>y the laid rules, thy certificate of the acltnow-
of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mull
also set? forth the place of residence and occupation
of the claimant or perfen malting such acknowledg
ment ; and when the pi oof of perfonai knowledge
is by a witnef* or witnefles, their place cr places of
residence-must be sot forth in like manner*
JAMES "M'HEN KV, Sec'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
Doctor Rush's
Literary, Moral, and Philosophical
Essays.
(One Volume, Offavo.)
This Day is Publilhed,
By Tbdmas is" Samuel F. Bradford,
No. 8, South Front Street,
f Price tivo Dollar
Essays, Literary, Moral and Philosophical,
By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
And Profeflu"! of the Institutes o! Medicine, and
Chemical Practice, in the University of PenDfyU
vania.
In the Press,
Adc fpcedily will be publilhed,
PERRIN'a
Elements "of French Conversation.
Januaiy 16 jteod
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. Q. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-flreet,
INFOP.iyiS those who wiih to recur to the only
means of becoming perfetfl in the French Lan*
guagp,th?t he has just opened his Library, con
sisting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or pl&-
liire. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
ih town.
n. b. AH translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoiru rtov.
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners,
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by tkeir unremitting attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
nerlhip between them and Joseph B. Barrv, has
bean diflolved by mutual content. Cavanagh
and Hearn have just received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
intend tor fell on very reasonable termss forcafb.
Orders from the country most pundually exe
cuted. Vjneers of all kinds cut as usual.
J 3rl - y' 2BW4W
t'r The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uron, master, captured by
a Spamfh privateer and fold at Ceuta iri last De
cember, may receive rnterefting information ref
peiling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
_ The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render afervicr to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news-
P n P ers - Jan- ~
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
Ap large quantity of Clocks and
\\ atches. Also, a general aflortment of Tools
Eiles and Materials, coafirting 'of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery'
Rots.ii Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains, Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
*#* Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. f&tutf
Landing this day,
From 011 boar-d th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and / T „ • nrT , ,
m pipes \ Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY »
George Latimer Iff Son.
uwemher 9. £
~ FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnu- street,
REPORT of the Committee of the House t>\
Reprefeotativesofthe United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachm-nt
against WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutiou of
the Houfu of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftru<3tng them "to enquire, hj a |i i awfui
" means, to difesver the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
« stands impeachej, and who are the uarties and
" alTociates therein "
Printed by order of the House ofKeprefentati-ves.
December 2© g
NOTICE. ~
To holderl of JAMJLS GREENLEAFj
and ED FOX's Engagements,
IN confequenee of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circijpiftances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice., TheTruftees now informthem, they
are ready to ifiue the fame to those who may ap
ply wifjfln sixty days, at No. g Chefnut Street,
and thole who do not, will beconfidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLF.R, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER* /
December 15. d6ct
[VQLVms XIII.WASHINGTON LOTTERY, So-11.
List "of Pm7.es 4nt>" Blanks.
143 d Day's Drawing—Nov. 13.
No. boll. ho. L)olj. Ao- Volt. No. D:!s.
114;; 11385 x 43697 3838J
317 593 7" * 57'
ai7j x 74» »479« x 75*
231 14011 x 971 x 391?;
43<4 S3* * *!S<>o ijt>
4:6 6j7 * »7SOB x 854 *
486 >!S to 28821 x x
561 25 16815
5158 '7340 29636 X 426 x
4:1 10 1?C43 977 3&4
54 7 234 * 3<>4« 7.x 97J
726 451 x 441 41857
768 X 1J194 15 651 X 44514 X
f>')oH X t 'l7 734 45554
214 31507 x 46165
IZ9 X 649 31376 -«34
68< it 154 }3«98 *0 965 10
72C9 X. ;9« X 347 47'55
316 22606 x 439 »5®
8637 875 50t 497 x
4873 23117 J5711 X 48383 x
886 256 861 JI3
10168 519 36811 x 738
5»I 557 935 49934
11264 x 6/5 379*5
For Freight or Charter,
7*o tf/yr Par/ in Europe, t
r-jßrvSrcßCma-QNE hundred and forty-one tons
burthm—S:aunrh and well bnilt, and fails faft.—
For tcrm6 apply to
'Jofepb Anthony & Co.
fanuarr 17 §iw
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
January I fit, 1798.
An »Hjourned meeting of the Stockholders
will be > eld at the Company's office on Friday
next, 6 o'clock iu the evening, on buliueft of
imoorfanca. H U
The Members
OF tlic Society of the Sons of St. George, efta
bliCi.d at Philadelphia,for the advice and alli.lanco
of Englifhraen in diflrtf*, are requested attend
a Quarterly Meeting of the said Society at the Citj
Tavern, on Tuesday the 13d inft. at 5 o'clock in
the afternoon. GEORGE DnVla, Sec'ry.
[jtnuary 17 3t
The Sublcriber
INFORMS thofc whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judges of the Ceurt of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday % the ixventy ftntb day of
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house ii l this city, on the fubjeft of his peti
tion for the henefir of the lafolvent Law —and
that their attecdance is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, 'Jan. 16. eotl6thF
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the last v/ill and testament of
William Hj tsham, deceafcd, and pofTrf-
Oon givrn immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth streets, confid
ing of the h«>ufe, No. 107, with the lot on which
it if exefled, a ttabU, and other improvements. —
Thehonfe is 20 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and 209 ffeet deep, with to well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The fiablc (lands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Chtrry Street. It« cent'al position and the
advantages it poflfefles with refpeA to free ventila
tion, render* it well worthy the attention of any
person wifting to possess an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or f Afling Executors.
Fkancis Bowes Sayri, )
January 11 §_
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has Uudicd several years under one of
the most eminent matters in fiat science)
INFORMS his friend.*, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.— Terms, a> usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he make* no additional charge if are two
pupils in One family.
A line directed to \V. H. left at the office of this
Gtzette, will be immediately attended to.
Janu .ry 9. §2w
FOR S/fiF,
By John miller, ;un. yco.
No. 8, Chclnut-ftrcet,
One hundred and eighty bales
B£NGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Bait as Sannas I
(Ju*z nahs TandaCoflaes j
Guxsies Emertict
Blue Cloths Calico is j
Palampoort Romall Handke»chief», ]
Amongst them are a great proportion of the (
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
To be Exchanged for
British, German, or India Goods, I
!N THE PACKAGE ; I
A trail of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing io,cco Acres. j
Inquire of the Printer.
J«i Ij. $
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-.(lores of Messrs. Dob
son, Cammell, Yoc.no and Ohmhod, I
in
OBSERVATIONS
On the C»uf«s and Cocr of Uemitting or Bilioas
Fewf.
To toLifk it
AN ABSTRACT of thv pinions and pr\£tire of I
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib- I
itinp inlcreftintf fa&s and r flections relative to i
the Synoclta IflrruJri, or Yellow Fever, which
I,a. occifioned so much diftreftand mortality, at
different period*, in feveralof the feaporttewns
of the United Stafs of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia Coll.ge of FhyGcians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c> *3 m^
Two furnifhed Rooms to ke Let.
Enquire at No. 162, Spruce-flrcet, between
4th and 5ll»f rert». Any perfca
the above, niiv if required, be ccc vrnmodatcd
with board.
Jan. ij. *it
Xlje Gtijtttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, JAMJART 18.
SCIPIO—N ». X.
RELATIVE to the sam of mortev which it wai
proootcd thai the Uaitcd Stales fhoold iend t« France
to enable it to profrcute the war, it Ihould be re
member ei the projeS was by Mr. Mon
• roc at a time when under ltd possible cucunaftancei it
could have beei* prpper. The iatirm with G.
Bri'.a o was then pending. If it succeeded, prace
with thai naiioo would hiwe beert cor»iirurd ind the
lo»n would have* ben a violation of neutrality not to
be juftififd. If it fai'iwl, war with Great Britain
muA have been the consequence, and all our mo»»ey
and rcfourees would have been in our su.n
har.di. Why then did ouj Min'fter, though oil erwifr
intruded J>y the Frrfidcnt, give a p!ai< for obtaining
5 the loan, bis aid to the Frrnch msnifter, and
write to tk Seeu'wv of State that the peotde wou d,
io his opinion, cheerfully bear a tax that fhou'd mif#
money for theFiench. He ouzKt to have recollected
how those who concurred With him in politics ever
have been and areoppofed to all plans of railing reve
nue* to be applied to the support of the general gov
ernment: how a cerain ciafa, called annfederahlls,
democrats, or jacobins, the French fac
tion, have labored i 'Ctffantly to render the adminif.
i tratian of the government odious to the people, and
with how much difficulty revenue laws havo been
pasTed for raiting the monies nec (Tary to discharge
our revolution-debts, and tw uphold the present sys
tem of the Union. Rccolle&ing these thangs, it is
tltnoA, but not quite, unaccountable that he should
have thought the people of the United States would
i have "paid a tax cheerfully ta raije a sum for the French
i _ Treasury, relying on a mere promise of France to reimburse
the loan, if pojjible, at fumt future day." Did he really
i believe the people would pay taxes for France mo't
1 cheerfully than for themselves, or was it ihe phrerzy
! of a distempered mind ? He could not, in fobcrfenfe
have believed it. His countrymen were never nor
are they yetdifpofed to be tributary to the French re
| public or to any foreign nation in tbe Universe. It is
true their patience under the many injuries and indig
nities which have been accumulated on them, has |
been wonderful. If it has been minterpreted for
I pusillanimity, or for exceflive fondnefa for the French
republic, the delusion cannot much longer remain :
and when it thai 1 be removed, and the rulers in
France (hall l?arn by experience the real temper of
this country, and feel its courage, they will view
with con erapt the men who, having deceived and
disappointed them, at length produced a lading ftfpa
ra ion between the two nations ; the men who, frnf
ftra ed in the Jchemc of lacking the United Statei as a pro
vince to the French Republic, for their felhfh pur pole, of
ambition or avarice, shall, if thought of at all in A
merica, be thought of with abhorrence.
The documents published by Mr. Monroe, as well
as his own narration of his minifiry, furnifh another
instance in which his condu& appears highly cenfura -
ble. He neglefled for a long time to slate and urge with
finceiity and prudence to the Directory of France the argu
ments of the Executive with zvhich he had been furni{k d>
proving thai the treaty with Great-Britain was not inconjift
ent with our treaty with France, and did not proceed jiom
any motives unfriendly to France, as had been wickedly mij
reprefented on both fides the Atlantic.
There is a fort of people who are indebted for the
notice which the public on them, prin
cipally to the malignant hatred which they have uni
formly declared agbinft Great-Britain. A person of
this defcriptiun cannot be expe&ed to be reconciled to
our treaty with that nation, because that inUrument
not only prevented a war with that nation, but is
likely long to prevent one. Mr. Monroe, lam lure,
will igloi y tn the reputation of hating Britain aud loving
France, which he has taken r o much paina to acquire.
I mention this as it will serve to explain the line of
conduit, which the Documents prove he observed up
on the fubjett of the British treaty, and when it is ie
membered that he hated Britain even with Gallic hat
red, it njuft have becu natural to him to entertain a
cordial wish that the treaty should excite the resent
ments of France, and by some means or other be de
feated or annulled. Besides. he has informed the
community that heforefaw in the faring, 1795, if ibe
treaty was raliist-d he would prc4>»bty be re-cHJed," k?
that the treaty mufl have been peculiarly odious to
him for this expected consequence. (page go.)
For fubftantiaiing this charge of raifeonduct, it is
necrfTary to refer to the documents. Mr. Monroe,
in his letter to the Secretary of State, datedj»7th Au
gust, 1795, which is the fiift he wrote after the trea
ty was known at Paris, informed the Secretary, *'that
within a few days pad, Philadelphia pap.-rs were re
ceived as late as the 3d of July, containing Mr. Jay's
treaty, together with such proceedings of the Senate
upon it as were then published, £cc Of late I have
heard nothing from the Committee on this fubje£l y nor do 1
expeQ to hear any thing from thatb:dy upon it, let the im
pression be what it may, otherwise than tn r ply to such com
munication ai 1 may make thereon, and refpefting which, it
may be proper to add, that I Jhalltake no flep without your
particular mflrudion."
In the lame letter he fays, " As I have had
no communication with this government upon
the fubj«<st of this treaty since its contents were
known, it isofcourfe impoflible for me to fay
what the impression it has made is. It is easy
for you with the lights you haw, to form a
correal opinion upon that point io Philadelphia,
He afterwards mentioned that he heard an ob
jetftioti was made by many to that part of the
18th article which related to proviiions; and this
is the only objection it appears had then been
brought forward, (page a&6 j
V\ hat I have quoted of this fetter fliould nev
er be forgot ift. It by proves hia own acknow
ledgement " that he did not expert to hear from
the committee but in reply to such communica
tions as he should make refpc&ing the treaty/'
and yet he has offered to juftify his tile nee on this
fubjes,by fcyiugr 4 * he deemed it improper to
make any communications to the dire&ory, till
they presented their complaints." adly. That
at the firft appearance of the treaty, no objection
was made except relative to one article, which
in practice has not been detrimental to either
France or the United Stite?, and is not there
tore complained of by anybody at this day.—
3dly. That there <were lights at Philadelphia by
which Mr. Randolph might discover how the
treaty would be received at Paris: In other
words, that whatever objections should be made
by the French faction here, might be expc<fted
to be made in France.
On the 10th of September 1795 i be aga n
wrote to the Secretary of State, and recom
mended if any further negotiation should bene
ceflary Vith Great-Britain, that the* person em
ployed should pofTtis the confidence of France,
and (hould carry on the negotiation where the 1
Frenchjhould be negotiating on peace, either at
Paris or Bajle. Further, he pointed out the '
way of engaging the of the French republic
by adopting the projedl of a loan, by attacking
Canada and fining out privateers. It cannt t
escape Dotire, on reading this letter, bow anx
ious oor mtuifter wasj}*t fll further negotiation
with Britain should be cor.du&ed by us under
the eye of France. In this letter no mention is '
j made that he had heard any complainrs against
the treaty —(pace aio) —nor dots his next let
ter, dated 4th contain any idea con
cer,. og the treaty —(page 113).
Or ihe aoth O&ober 1795, Mr. Monrr>e ac
knowledged the receipt of fcveral letters from
the Secretary of State, dared 29th IVJav, jftand
7th June, »(!, Bth, 14th, aift, 29th and ?6th Ju
ly- Several of these letters related to the Brit
iih treaty, particularly that of the ift June,
which is very lengthy, (consisting of 26 pages
of the book) and contained the eiott ample in
formation and meft copious arguments relative
to the conduct of the Uni cd States in making
the treaty ; and that of 14th July, accompanied
his correfpnndence with Mr. A**rt. They vi ere
intended to enable our minister to answer all the
OltyclUoiaft thai mijVw be luggefted or made bv (
• Frinctithtivetc.tUt treaty. Or. tke icth
' Oitoicr.be was therefore iifift'-uftei ky t!ic
Frefitient how l.e »j' to 1 e pro/rdfed
to par attention to th leitcis. I'iit eve.i al
this period,, tlit following extras) from hie let
ter of the sctb October i ■)<)}, no cnnplainti had
been mide againll the'treaty. " Forthe pre-,
lent, however, permit me to add, that as yet
no torcpla'mi):a.§ been made to mt against the
treaty; uor hare I heard any thing from the
c committee on rh* fahjiil Alice the application
requeuing information, in what light they were
. io vit-vr ilie reports Mnrerning it, and which
t »i< madefoon after the treaty was concluded,"
that is to f;y in December t?94.
e On the itt!> September 1795, the Secretary
e of State, Mr. Pickering, wrote a letter ejcpl*in
-0 inc to Mr. Monroe fl.e propriety pi lihe KritiQi
v trea'.f, the meaning of the particular ftiuiila
„ tions, the motives which induced it, and its ex
c peeled ope:u|ion —which lerter Mr. Monroe ay-,
K fwcrcH or. (tie ttli December following. In his
1 an'fwar *to fc*t found thi-paragraph—"The
• effedl which tins, incident produced in the coun
* ci!» of th.s country thiough. its fevnal flages,
* may be traced hi iny former communications,
\ to which I beg leave to refer you. To these I j
have nothing material new to cdJ. Symptoms
, of difconteut it is true, are flill seen ; buf.whe
. tlier they will alTume an ifpe<3 n.ore unpleasant,
- I know not: \f they -Jo, or any thing occurs of
1 l'ufficient importance to merit your attention, 1
" will cerraial* apprise you of it, and without de
f lay."
Ujion this letter it may be observed, that the
J effe>Sls of the treaty up to that time upin the
j French councils/were t* be tr teed in his former
j letters- These I have Shortly Hated ; l'o that for
e upwards of a yea.-, the treaty hid excited no dif
y contents that Mr. Monroe deemed, as hi; cor
e refppndence ihtes, to be of any consequence
i Wten they begvn to appear, he was fully tur
e ni/led by the executive with the means ot fat
' isfying, or at leift endeavouring to fatisfy the di
~ res Dory of France ; for at this period the direc
tory had gone into office. We are therefore to
s examine the ccnduft of our minister from De
r ct»,i)3er 1795, till his rtcall in August 1796 —For
1 it 1% during this space that he is most particnlar
! ly ciargeable with negled of duty, or a wilful
' difrjgard of the wilhes of the_ executive refpeil
[The following is published in the Aurora,
as a ptupuCtiun offered by Col. H»mil
~ tpn in the cgoveetion for establishing a
constitution tor the United States. Our
readers will rccolleft that the faction
! have raised a great clamour on this fub
jeft about monarchy &c. Now let them
1 judge for themselves.—This clamor has
served to develope the chara&er and prin
ciples of the faflion, and fully proves
that had they power, they would total
ly prevent all freedom of opinion and dis
cussion even in assemblies formed express
ly to search out and establish, truth jus
tice and liberty.']
PROPOSITION
Of Col. Hamilton of New-Tori, in the Con
vention f»r eflabli/bing a Conflitution of go
vernment for the United Slates.
I. The supreme legislative power of the
United States of America, to be veiled in
two different bodies of men, the one to be
called the assembly, the other the Senate,
who together (hall form the lcgillature of
the United States, with power to pass all
laws whatsoever fubjeft to the negative
hereafter mentioned.
11. The assembly to consist of persons e
'efted by the people, to serve for three years.
111. The Senate to consist of persons e
lefted to serve during good behavior ; their
eledlion to be made by eledlars chosen for
that purpose by the people ; in order to
this the llates to be divided into election dif
tridls. On the death, resignation or remo
val of any senator, his place to be filled
out of the diftrift from which he came.
IV. The supreme executive authority of
the United States to be veiled in a Govern
or to be elefted during good behavior— the
sledlien to te made by eledtor6 chosen by
the people in the ele£lion diftrifts aforefaid.
The authoritie* and fundlions to be as fol
low—to have a negative upon all laws about
to be passed, and the execution of all laws
passed ; to have the dire&ion of war when
authorized or begun ; to have with the ad
vice and approbation of the senate, the
power of making all treaties ; to have the
sole appointment of the heads or chief offi
cers of the departments* of finance and fo
reign affairs ; to have the nomination of all
other officer* (anjbaffadors to foreign nations
included) fubjeft to the approbation or re
jedlion of the senate ; to have power of
pardoning all offences, except treason,
which he ffiall not pardon without the ap
probation of the lenate.
V. On the death, resignation orremov
al of the governor, hi' 3 authorities tS be
exercised by the President of the senate till
a successor be appointed.
VI. The Senate to have the sole power
of declaring war ; the power of advising
and approving all treaties ; the power of
approving and rejefting aH appointments of
officers, except the heads or chief of the
departments of finance, war and foreign
affairs.
VII. The supreme judicial authority of
the United States to be relied in judges to
hold their offices during good behaviour
with adequate anti permanent salaries.
This court to have original jurifdiflion in
all causes of capture, an appellate jurisdic
tion in all causes on which the revenues of
the general government or the citizens of
foreign nations are concerned.
VIII. Tni Ifgiflature of the United
States to Katf jjo.yer to institute coarts in
eaah Rate fc«Uhe determination of all mat
ters of general concern.
IX. The governor, senators and all offi
cers of the United States to be liable to
impeachment for mal and corrupt condufl,
and upon convi&ion to be removed from of
fice and disqualified from holding any place
of trull & profit ;and all impeachments to be j
tried by a court te consist of the chief
or judge of the superior court of law j
of each state provided fßch judge hold his 1
place during good behavior and have a per
manent lti'.ary.
X. All laws of the particular ftatcs con
trary to the cuftltuution <w laws of the U
nited States to be utterly void : and the
better tu prevent such lews being passed,
'' the governor or I'iefident of. each state (hall
be appointed by the general government,
u and fliall have a negative upon the laws a
bout to be passed"in the state of which he 13
4 governor or President.
XI. No state to have any force, land or
t naval, and the militia of all the ftatesto be
e under the sole and excluiive direction of the
e United States, the officers of which to be
n appointed and comrr.iffioned by them.
h f ~—* „
" To the Legislature «/ Pennsylvania.
y A petition lias lately been laiJbefore you,
" praying for a grant of money to finirfi the
'* building adjoining the Pennfylvauid Hafpi
tal which is intended for the reception of
persons deprived ot their reafrtn.
s To induce you to comply with the priyer
e of that petition, the folio wing'thought 5 are
- humbly suggested to your consideration.
I. The obligation to aiSs of juftiee and
J humanity, arc equally binding upon states |
and individuals. A man might as well sup
. pose by changing his place of abode, he
, was released from paying his debts, or from
f giving charity to the poor, as suppose by
1 becoming a member of a public body, he
was exempted from the great and universal 1
_ law of benevolence. Governments were j 1
, instituted not only to prevent andpunifh evil, 1 ;
r but to do good. Their objects are therefore <
- but partially fulfilled, when rulers negledt
- to lessen human miferv, by direst a£ls of le- <
' giflation. <
2. Lunatics or persons deprived of their I
reason, have the flrongefl claim upon our
. pity and humanity, of any obje&s of mi- 1
. fery. They are not only unable to help, but 1
1 they discover a disposition to deflroy them
• selves. They often diilurb the peace of
focitty, and sometime* make attempts upon
the lives of their ne2reft relations. Even
the dead are not always secure frem their
outrages ; hence many instances have oc
curred of their leaping over Ute eiiclbfures
of burying grounds, and tearing open
graves in order to revenge supposed injuries
upon their former friends.
3. Consider, that your children may be
fubjeft to this terrible and distressing mala
dy in common with the reft of mankind,
and that by completing the building for the
reception of lunatics, you raay lay a foun
dation for the accommodation and cure of
some of your posterity.
4. All phyficiaos agree, that the firft
thing to be done for the cure of mad per
sons, is to separate them from thfir relati
ons. This can never be done to advantage <
by placing them in a private family. In all i
countries, Hospitals and mad houses have
been found necessary for this purpose. The <
unfinifhed building which now solicits your
aid, will have every possible advantage for i
the government, comfort and cure of the *
: persons who shall be admitted into it.
1 5. Madness in its recent state, has lately V
become a curable disease, provided the sub- '
, je£ts of it are placed in a situation in whieh {
r an easy but steady government can be efla- c
[ blifhed over them. This can only be done
: in a Hospital appropriated to that purpose.
To refufeXo complete such a hospital, is to
. counteraft the discovery of the remedies
for madness, and to perpetuate and extend
that disease throughout the state.
6. The hospital which now implores your
• relief, is ealculated to render benefits to ev
-1 erypart of the state. A great proportion
of the lunatics now confined there, were
. sent from the different counties of Pennfyl-
I vania.
7. Consider—that the credit of our in
: fant republic is deeply interested in the suc
cess of the application for money which has ;
lately been made to you. In all the great j
cities of Europe travellers are dire&ed to
behold and admire the humanity of kings
in the establishment and endowment of lu
natic hospitals. Let it not be said, that
kings love and pity their fubjefts, more
than the citizens of a republic love and pi
ty each other.
8. Dr. Tillotfou long ago said, that the 1
hospitals and other public charities in Eng- t
land had preserved that island from invallon '
and cor.quest. A stranger was once con- I
dw&ed by profeffor Frank through the town <
of Halle, in Saxony ; upon telling thft-- -
profeffor that he wiTtvcd to l'ec the walls of
tlie town, Mr. Frank pointed to his large
and flourifhing charity school-—" there is
the defence (said he) of our town—While
that iailitution exists, no enemy will be per
mitted to do us any harm." The issue of
negociations as means of preventing war is
uncertain, but the influence of charitable
inftitutious upon the happiness, reputation
and fafety of a country is well known.—
They make an ally of heaven, and give us
reason to look up with hope and confidence
to its power and goodness, to proted our 1
country.
A FRIEND TO HUMANITY. '
1
Report of the Committie of the House of Re
prefentalives of this State on the Health Lanus.
The committee appointed to examine the
" Aft for establishing an Health office for
otherwise securing the cj*y and port of Phi
ladelphia from the intron»£tion of pestilen
tial and contagious diseases, and for regulat
ing the importation of German and other
passengers," and report whether any, and
what alterations ought to lie made in the
fame, for the better security of the city a
gainst the introduction of pestilential and
contagious diseases, beg leave to submit the
following report, viz. 1
That a board of health be appointed by ]
the aldermen of the city of Philadelphia,
and the jurtices of the peace qf the county 1
of Philadelphia, refidiug in the Northern t
| Liberties and the diftritt of South wark, con- 1
! lifting ps twelve citizens, four of whom (hall '
| be Physicians. 1
II Th*t this board have a fuffiaient sum of |
1 money placed in their power, to be raised I 1
by tax or otherwise, to enable them to pro- | 1
vide for any exigencies which may arise, and j
to eftabliffi such regulations as they may j
dectri consistent w;Ji the public fsfety.
.j That this board fit weekly or oftener, if ■
i
11 necessary, during the months of l„l v a „
t, guit, September and October.
J- _ That this board h S v t F.,11 poWei - in c
,3 currenee with the Governor, to eut off J
communication with infeaed persons or pL*.
,e That an hospital be erefled adjacent , 0
C k" 7 !) i!* s,ent5 ,ent magnitude to contain
,e five "undred paticou, and that a Steward
and a Matron be cm p l. ye d to reside there
conftan ly ,n order to keep the hospital in
a . fit lla£c for the recepnon of patient, at all
times. 1
'* j Tha£ I sup . ply of P ure W4te '- be introduc
ie ed into the City as well for culinary n uriJur *
i- es, 33 topunfy tht streets and gutters
>f K 7* P °" Ce f ' he and luburhs
be diredled to pay the ftria.efl attention to
r Clennfing and watering the streets, gutters
•e and yards and that the wharv cß and dock,
, be also fubjetls of their care and fuptrinte a
d dance. r
:s | That every vessel from the Mediterranean
coast of Africa, Weft Indie,, and eonti!
c nent of America, to the southward of Flo
n nda, {hall perform an effeaual quarantine
y during the months of July, August, Sep
e tember, and Oaober ; and that the cargoes
! ; of veflels fufpeaed of having had, or* of
e| having disease on board shall be unloads
I, and with the vessels be purified at the place
of quarantine,
That the punishment of a matter of a vef.
fel who evades the law by landing his «arg o ,
crew or passengers, be confinement to hard'
labour for not less than 5 vears.
That every person who'keeps a boardin z
house for sea tanagpeople or others, com,™
from on board (hip, from the middle of *
June to the middle of Oftober, (h,ll report
mJh °r d r , heahh CVer >' P erf °" vvbo
may he taken sick in their house,, and the
con u tnig phyfictan (hall immediately visit
such person ■ That the negleft to make such
;nZ°h r tl ? ° ffach board
That every veffe! coming from the Medi
terranean, coast of Africa, Weft fnd/es or
continent of An'er.ca, to the southward of
Honda, (hall bnng a bill of health
a „7'W n rC nf bi 3 resident ?h rfician
and Health Officer, who (hall reside on
- State Island and that they (hall not absent
f themselves during the months of June, Tuly
August, September and Oaober- That
the Health officer (hall visit all vessels, and
- that when called upon by the Health officer
- the resident Physician (hall visit such vessels
; f H «lth officer may deem it requisite
I (hall be visited.
: That no vessel of war be permitted to
: come above the Fort.
P a Tl l at l r he marine bofpital be enlarged, and
r ltore houlesbuilt for the reception of cargoes
: which require purification.
The foregoing items are an outline of the
r plan which appears to your committea high
. ly necessary, lo prevent the j'ntrodu&ion and
propagation of pestilential and contagious »
diseases.
; _ To an enlightened and humane legislature
it must be an adt of fupererogatioo to rcfort
1 to argument to enforce the propriety andu
s tility of efficient provisions. When the
1 scenes of horror and distress, which exhib
ited themselves in this city and its environs
r in the year 1793, and the late autumn are
- called up to the recolleaion, humanity will
j permit but one opinion in the House, and
1 that is, to afford an ample and complete re
. medy against future calamities.
Such must be the jbft conceptions of the
. legislature, that any endeavour to prove the
- correspondence of interests between the city
s j and country, would be as fuperftous as an
t attempt to demonllrate the truth of a felt
j evident proportion. Every man, wliofe
s mind is not blinded hv prejudice, must. ad
- mic that whatever relates to the interest of
I the one has a correspondent relation to the
e interest of the other, and thit like members
. of the fame body, the sympathy is mutual
and the wants and interefta reciprocal. Im
pressed with these sentiments, your commit
tee feel authorised in urging aii attention to
supplying the city with pure water, as of
primary importance to its health, as well
as to its comforts. Although your com-
V'' tf.rf ■' n {' .•-* after the
mod attentive investigation, that the disease
which ravaged in this city and its suburbs
in the year 1793, and the late autumn was
of fereign origin, they neverthclefs believe,
that there exiftei at those periods a certain
condition of the atmosphere which favoured
its propagation, and without which it conid
not have been -transmitted to any alarming
extent. It being a desideratum, tnat such
a (late of air (hould be counterafted which
affords nutriment to contagion, they cannot
too ftrongty inculcate the neceluty of a sup
ply of pure water to the city, and of tne
(triaeft attention to such regulations as will
keep it ar.d environs free from putrefaaive
substances.
To arrest the ravages of disease and death,
to rescue our city from desolation, a certain
: copfequence of one or two more Yellow Fe.
r ver visitations, to keep up the importance
. and commerce of the State, which are inti»
. mately involved in the prosperity of the cap: ;
- tal, some efficient system is abfoiutc'.y nece'.-
r fary. The foregoing outline is fubiaittea
1 with deference, and when your committee
: consider, that interest, prompted Ly human
- ity and every virtuous fteling of ihe iieart,
J urge the interference of the legiGature, t0.,,
e cherifti a doubt of that interference, wou.il
betray as much inhumanity, as would a
f pathy to so intereiting a fubjea. .
Impressed with the importance mag
s nitude cf the trust reposed in your committee
i they'have maturely considered t- e u J 1 - \
- referred to them, and zs the foregoing pro,
1 visions appear to them nectl'ar), t.i.j
leave to offer the following resolution, viz.
f Resolved, That a committee be appomt-
I ed to bring in a bill or bills conforms.. Jto
- ' the preceding report.
d i Hyl'on and cung Hylon i en.
y ! A few che •< cf excriknt .;uajitj, ): r MiU.cor
• ner of Secoiidaiu lirccts
if • December 26.coNGR E S 8.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY JANUARY 17.
Mr. Macon, from the Committee of Re
vifal and Urfitiifhed Business, made a re
port on the motion referred to them on the
4th instant refpe&ing the abolition of the
office of commissioner of the Revenue, which
stated it as their opinion, that it would be
inexpedient to abolifi) that office.
The report having been reaß a second,
time,
Mr. Macon moved that the house concur;
but Ms. J. \yilliammoving that it be com
mitted, the ferilF of the house was taken
upon the question, and it was negatived.
Mr. Macon then renewed his motion to
concur. He said that the committee were
unanimous in their opinion that this office
was necessary. It was the duty of the
Commissioner of the Revenue to fuperintenj
the duties colledled from impost and ton
nage, and from internal revenue. He had
also to examine all the accounts fettled by
the Auditor. The light houses, beacons
and public piers were under his direction;
he bud also to affiftin preparing statements
for the two houses of Congress, and a good
deal of mifcellaneout business, as the Secre
tary of the Treasury had the power of giv
ing him f&ch business as he thought proper.
He had also to covrefpond with all the fu
rv'rriforl of the different dates on the fub
je£t of Internal revenue, which correfpond
?nce was very considerable. He did not
think there would be any economy in put
ting more business upon any department than
it would well perform: and if this office
were abolished, the business of it must be
done by another. It might be said that by
acMiug tie ffUrWo employed in this office to
another of the Treatcrry ofku.., tim u»fi—l
ness might be as well donej but he concei
ved the expence thus saved, which would
not be more than 700 dollars a year, as a
principal clerk must be employed, would be
equal to the loss of responsibility which
tJhe public had in the commissioner of the re
venue. Mr. M. thought to objeCt to an
office of this fort was draining at a gnat.
He was as great a friend'of curtailing theex
pences of Government, as any member;
but there were other expences which carried
off the money of Government, and which
ought to b? lessened—this office he believed
to be necefiary.
Mr. Findiey hoped the report would be
agreed to. The original intention of this
«ffice was to be a check upon the other of
ficers of the Treasury Department. He
did not wifli it, therefore, to be abolished;
but, at another time, he trusted, the busi
ness of it would be revised. If the house
were disposed to take away all checks of
this kind, they might go on and abolifli
the offiee of comptroller general and others.
He was not disposed to give up these
checks.
Mr, J. Williams was of opinion that all
the business done by this officer might be
done by an additional clerk in the comp
troller's office. He did not think the res
ponsibility of this officer was so great as re
presented, as he was under the dire&ion of
the Secretary of the Treasury. By such a
regulation, he believed, one third of the
expence now incurred would be saved; and
and though another gentleman might not
think a saving of 3 or 4000 dollars a year
an wbjedt, he was of a different opinion.
The report was concurred in.
The report on tb« petition of Stephen
Sayre was committed for to-morr&w.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
chims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of Joh* Carr, which was commit
ted for to morrow.
The following message was received from
the President of the United States: ;
Gentlemen of the Senate, and 1
Gentlemen of the Jioufe of Reprefentaiives, '
THE situation of affairs between the U
nited States and the cherokee nation of In- <
dians, having evinced the expediency of a :
treaty with that nation, for the promotion t
of Justice to them, as well as of the interests 1
and convenience of our citizens, I have no- \
minated, and- 4>y-and and a
consent of the Senate, appointed comiffion- t
ers, to hold conference and conclude a *
treaty as early as the season of the year and 1
the convenience of the parties will admij. r
As we know very well, by experience, I
that such negociations cannot be carried on e
without considerable expences, I reCom- b
mend to your confederation the propriety of 1
making an appropriation, at this time, for n
defraying such as may be necefiary for h
holding and concluding a treaty. h
That you may form your judgment with e
greater facility, 1 shall direst the proper of- q
ficer to lay before you an estimate of such w
articles and expences as may be thought in- tl
dispensable. tl
J6HN ADAMS. n
United States, 1 ai
January 17th 1798 j p
Mr. N. Smith moved that this message E
be referred to the' committee of ways and fa
-.means. ai
Mr. Harper did not fee the propriety of p:
this reference : he thought it would be bed ri
to go to the committee of the whole who m
had the report as the feleft committee upon ol
the petition and remondrance of the legifla- S
ture of Tennefiec under consideration. li
Mr. N. Smith could fee no reason why a I u<
different course /hould be observed with res- d;
pedl to this business, than was observed with tu
refpeft to any other which related to appro- of
priatic-H»&, and the usual way was to refer tfi
all fnch fubje&s to the committee of ways he
and means. The present, he said, was mere ri l
Executive business. The, President of the w;
United States had communicated to the he
House his intention of holding a treaty and on
requested.an appropriation. It was, there- tri
.ore, a proper fubjc?t to be ailed upon by ze
he committee of ways and means ; and, tic
vhen it was so referred, he (hould move to cu
lifcharge the committee of the whole from T<
(he Farmer confidirationof tbebufinefs which
related to this treaty. The House had al
ready spent confiierable time upon it to no
f • purpose, merely because it was [improper
for them to have entered upon it at all.
Mr. J. Williams believed it was usual for
e_ all messages from the President of the U.
'e- States to be referred to a committee of the
he whole on the date of the Union. |He wished
he this message to take that course, and wjien
ch the promised estimates were received, they
be could be the fame committee.
Mr. T. Claiborne approved of the course
ad recommended by thegentleman from S. Ca
rolina.
r; Mr. Thatcher thought nofreference was
necefiary, until the estimates were received.
cn Mr. Nicholas did not undtriland what
gentleman from Connecticut meant by
to faying that this was wholly executive bu
re sines. He did not believe, because the Pre
ce fident had told the lioufe that he was about
hq to hold a treaty, that the money must be
granted, and that the House had no choice
n- whether they would appropriare it or not.
id From what had already been said upon the
>y fubjeel, he doubted not there was a pretty
us general dipofition to grant the money ; but
n; it was not proper that the message
ts be sent to the committee of ways and means,
id as if an appropriation was a thing of course;
e- to do this, would be to aft at the command
v- of the President of the United States ;■
r. whereas that House could only a& upon
u- the full exercise of its'difcrrtioir. He, there
b- fore, moved that the message be referrtdto the
d- committee of the whole which had already
at this fubjeft under confideratiou.
t- Mr. Harper was- of opinion with the
in gentleman from Cannefticut to a certain ex- j
;e tent. If the expence to be ptovided 1
je I for was of a nature that might be dispensed I
>y with, or not, it might b'- proper to fend
to the message to the committee of ways and
r— meallTtoFtheir report thereon, as to its ex
i- pediency ; but the present was an e&p&QSX-
Id that could not be avoided, and he did not fee
a what the committee of ways and mpans
>e could do upon the fubjeft.
:h Mr- Gallatin believed the.gentleman from
e- Connecticut had not eonfidered this fubjeft
in with his usual correftnefs. That gentle
t. man had said that the message before them
s- ought to go to thg committee of ways and
p; means, and that an appropriation would fol
d low as a thing of course. It must be known
h that this was contrary to the pra&ice of that
d house or of any former legislature ef the
United States. On the contrary, it was
ic usual, firft to authorize an expence, and in
is the next place to appropriate, and in no
f- cafe had the business been reversed. If the
e message were referred to the committee of
[; ways and means, all they could do, would
i- be to bring it back to the house, and ask
e for an authority for the expence. He be
>f lieved the gentleman from Conne&icut had
h been led into this mistake by eonfidering
i. the message announcing the intention of the
e President to bold a treaty, as a treaty made,
aud, had that heen the cafe, according to <
11 that gentleman s known opinion, he would
e consider the house as bound to make th<? -we- J
- eefiary appropriation ; but he desired him ,
.- to recolleft that no treaty was yet made, 1
- and, therefore, that doftriue could not ap
f ply in the present cafe. The message might
a indeed be referred to a feleft committee ; '
e that an opinion might be reported whether .
i the expence ought to be authorized ; but, i
t as the fubjeft had already been before the ]
r house, and, though there was a differente 1
of opinion as to the mpde of effedling the
business, there seemed to be but one fenti- j
1 ment that something ought to be dene ; he t
thought it best to refer the message to a :
f committee of the whole, where he sup- ®
' posed there would be no objection to the
- g rant ' n g of a sum of money for the pur- [
pose iri view.
1 Mr. N. Smith did not know that it was f
a matter of much importance whether the 1
message was referred to a committee of the f
whole, or the committee of ways and means 1
but he was not yet convinced that it "
ought no* to go to a committee of wavs j
and means in preference to a committee of p
the whole. The gentleman from S. Caro- p
lina (Mr. Harper) did not know that there S
was any thing that tha -committee of ways t
and means could do in the business. He '
thought there were many fads which it "
was necessary to enquire into ; such as what j,
would be the probable expence of the com- !■
miffioners, of convening the Indians, &c. c
Matters of faft might be readily ascertain- a
ed by that committee, but which could not 0
be determined in a committee of the whole. a
That this was the ordinary course of bufi-
nefj could not be denied. The President
had informed the house he was about to t<
hold a treaty (whether with a foreign pow- h
er, or with the Indians, was of no confe- *
quence) and that certain fnmi of money l '
would be necefiary, and he believed no gen-
tleman could point out an instance, where
this hid been done, that the message had w
not been referred to the committee of ways
and means, to make an estimate of the ex- 2 (
penee which would /probably be incurred. 111
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania had
said it was firft necessary to pass a law to
authorize the exper.ee ; but if he coiid al
prove that the expence was already autho- in
rized, that gentleman must allow that the of
mefiage ought now to go to the committee 1,11
of ways and means. Was it a fad, Mr. aK
S. asked, that a law was necessary to autho-
liuean expence which the Executive saw
necessary to incur ? He said not. The con- a ' n
ftitution had authorized it ; for the-conftj
tution had given to the President the power fe<
of holding treaties. For the Executive, an
therefore, to appoint commissioners for the
holding of a treaty, was a fuffieient autho
rity for the expence, without any law.
was there a single treaty which had been a
held between this country and foreign nati- tlii
ons„ or between this country and Indian a '"
tribes, which had been previously authori- P r
zed by law ? There was not ; tlie conftitu- na
tion had placed this authority in the Exe- ,j.
cutivewithout theconcurrenceof that house. ;i lt
To suppose the contrary, would be to sup- tfu
c't pose that thi Pri.Cdcnt bad been nfiing
al- without law i;i appointing com-nifTigncrs to
no hold a treaty. Tift truili was, however,
per that he had as much power to do'\vliat he
had done, as he had power to Jo any thing
f>r and that the house had nothing to do but
U. appropriate the money,
he Mr. Rutl edge did not believe it was ne
ed ceffary or proper, for that house to atithorife
en the President to hold a treaty ; but if it were
ey necefiary for him to hold a treaty, th* con
currence of that house was necefiary to ena
rfe ble him to do it, as it could r.ot be done
.a- without money. It was rcquifite therefore,
to pass a bill, not to authorize the President
'as j to hold n treaty, but to enable him to do it.
i- llt was best, therefore, for the communica
lat tion firit to go into a committee of
by and afterwards to the committee of ways
u- and means, in order them to fay where thtf
re- money oould be got. There was fo'msthing
ut in this cafe, which pointed outjthis mede
be as peculiarly proper, as there seemed to be
ce a difpofitioii iu the house, if the treaty fliould
)t. not succeed agieeably to the wifhesof the
he President, to afford temporary relief to the
ty persons now iuffering from being driven
ut from their land The gentleman from Con ;
id neflicut had said, that the committee of
is, ways and means could report an estimate of
e; the probable expence wjych would be in
nd curred in holding the treaty; but if he at
;• tended to the message of the President, he
an would find that this ellimate was to be laid
e- before the house by the proper department,
he so that there was no necefiity for a reference
ly to any committee for that purpose.
The motion for a referenceto the commit
be tee of the whole was carried without a di
x- vision.
Ed The unfinifhed business of yesterday, re- I
-d lative to the Teneffee claimants, being next
id in order,
id Mr. W. Claiborne moved that it be poft
x- poned till Monday next.—Agreed.
(To be Continued.) „
— l "=
By yesterday's Mail.
n
ft X 7 EW-YORK, January 16.
Captain Williams, of the Nymph, from Havre,
gives us the fame information, refpeil'ing she pro
bahi'ity of an embargo on American velFels, as
captain iddujlg, a report that all Ame*
1- ricans would soon be arretted, "as they had alrea
n *7 in Paris to take them up and confine
them in the temple"—and that it was also report
ed when he left the quay, " the Hotel de Boston,
at Paris was furrcunded with a jruard, to fee that
ls none made their escape from thence!"
n
0 BOSTON, January io.
c The of this Commonwealth, is to
f meet at the old State House, in this town, this
day, from whence, in a few days, it is expedied,
the various departments of the government will '
K proceed in ample order, to take poffeflion of tke
new edifice, appropriated for their convenience j
[1 NEW STATE HOUSE.
y The new State House is an oblong building, 173
3 feet front, and 61 deep; it confiflsexternally of a *
e basement story 20 feet high, and principal flory t
> 30 feet. This in the centre of the front so crown- 1
5 ed with an Attic 6.0 feet wide, 10 feet high, which r
1 is covered with a pediiaent: Immediately above
it, this rises a dome 50 feet diameter and high, the c
wKoTTTerlSinatearwith ari eTegaTTt*circular Jan- *
thorn, supporting a gilt pine cone, an emblem of (
» ene ot our principal staples. r
The hafement {lory is finilhed plain on the wings
t with square windows. Th? centre is 94 feet in f
length, ani formed of arches which projeA 14
' feet ; they form a covered walk b'ejmv, and sup- 1
port a Colonade of Corinthian columns ©f the t
> fame extent above. Tl>e ontfide walls are of large
; patent bricks, with white marble fafcias, impefts -j
, and key Hones.
The lower llory is converted into a large hall t
or public walk in the centre, 55 feot square and 20 1 (
high, supported by Doric Columns—two entrie*, a
I each 16 feet wide, with two flights of stairs each, J
i and at the ei? .is. Offices for the, Treasurer and Secre
tary of the Commonwealth. a
The rooms above ars —The representatives I
room, in the centre 55 feet square, the corners
formed into niches for fire places ; this room is f<
finifhed with Doric columns on\h; tides, at u q
feet from the floor, forming a gallery ; the Do- t(
rit entablature surrounds the whole, from this q
. fpritig four flat arches on the fide, which being ,
united by a circular cornice above, form in the
anglss tour large pendants to a bold and well 31
proportioned dome. The pendants are orna- d.
'■ mented with trophies of commerce, agriculture, o:
and war. The dome is finilhed <n com- re
partments of stucco in i fiyle of firople ele
gance. The center of the dome, is sofett from
the floor. The feats for the are rang
ed temicircularly, and thefueaker's chair in face
of the whole. Q
North of the center room is the senate cham- r '
' )cr )55 ' eet iong, wide, and 30 high; high- er
ly smithed iin the losic order ; two screens of
columns support with their entablature a rich '
and elegant arched ceiling This room is also. ar
ornamented with lonic pilasters— and with the ;
arms of the state, and of the United States plac
ed on opposite pannels—it is accommodated
wiih a gallery fpr public use. n .
The,council chamber is on the opposite quart ot o
ter of the building, it is 27 feet square, and ao up
high with a flat ceiling ; the walls are finilhed J w
with Corinthian pilafiers and panneis of stucco ; ! ke
these panaels are enriched with the state arms, gi
with emblems of executive power, thefcale and on
(word of jullice, and the iiifigma of arts ind tK:
freedom, the caduceus and caw of liiiertv. The vi.
whole decorated v. ith wreaths of oak and laurel, thi
Belides these principal rooms, there are about iot
zo I mailer, plainly finifeed for the use pi com- c,?l
niittecs. tht
The flairs are spacious, and two flights of r '
thetn lead to the top of the oati.r dome, 170 n \
fleps fr»m the foundation. This flight affords
an uninterrupted view of ene of the fineft scenes c
in nature. Jrideed the beauty and advantages w ,
of this fituaxion which induced the legillatu'e to w
make choice of it for the present building, are V<^
asknowleilged by both natives and VU
It vies with the mofl piflurefquofcenes' in £u
rope, anci will hear comparison with the Caflle
hill of Eidnburg, the famous bay of Naples, or To
any other most commanding profpeit.
Ihe foundation of this building is about top (
feet above the level of the harbour, its elevation
and size, makes it a very conspicuous objeil.—
It is about 60 feet above the level of the mall,
and from this Caution it appears to most advan- f' el
tage. '~ ot
Poo much praise tannot be beflowed on' the fl te
.agents who have direifled th|p eonftruiflion of 10
this Isperb edifice, for their economy, liberalitiy
and patrioti.fm. The materials are mnftty the
produce hf our country, and the composition or- ,1,3
naments wer; msde and moaitled on tile spot. EEC
Many hundred eitizens were ytflerday, and V er
the day before, admitted to a free range over it c
'he whole edifice ; and one sentiment animated wh
tlitm a!!—pleafuie and lurprife. ' and
%\jc (^3'ett^
PHILADELPHIA,
'Ut TKURSDAV EVEN!JfG, JANUARY 18.
Ie-
Jf t Extract of a letter from Norfolk jfart. 4.
LR . " The most important news I have to tell
, n _ is—the return of our commi/Jioners home again
, a . from Paris ; captain Geary inform< me they
ne are now on their pajfage."
re,
Extraft of a letter from in Mas- j
fachufetts, dated Januwy 9, 1798.
:a- " My letters from England announce the
,j e expectation there, thit the arms of the
y S French Republic are next to Jje
jus in reducing Spain to the form of Province—
,g m expunging Portugal from the catalogue
(] e of nations—and in subverting and plunder
|,e ing Hamburg and Denmark. Like the
y Romans whom they imitate, war and ra
pine are necefiary to their exiilence ; and if
, e the modern Carthage does not reft rain them,
■ n and they remain united, doubtless they will
n . revolutionize the whole civilized world, and
0 f we mud again fight for independence, or
0 f lofie it. If, however, England is not des
nA troyed by internal faftion, flie will be able
t . to keep the monllers in their den, until they
le devour each other."
t The author of the paragraph in yesterdays
Gazette relative to the Frigates, in which
Mr. Francis's accounts are mentioned, did
t _ not mean to insinuate, that there was any
delay in bringing forward those accounts.
It may be proper also to state, that only'
c _ jone of the Frigates is under the fuperinten
,t dance of Mr. Fiancis.
The Eastern mail had not arrived when this
piper uent to prtfs.
LEGISI. ATUP ' of PENNSYLVANIA.
On the 13th, petition wereprefented from
Wafii.ngton and Alleghany counties, pray
ing that a new county may be laid out, and
that Eeavertown may be the feat of justice j
e from Lancaster county, for leave trf eredt
fiih bafleets on the river Sufquehannah ; and
15 from York county, praying for aid in favour 1
> of Dickenfon College. A report was made
in favour of the petition of Francis Ment-
c _ ges, and that on the petition of the Trustees
, cf Lower Academy was adopted. The
it resignation of was acc*pte<j- c
with a reservation that the acceptance did
not recognize a right to his feat. The house
went into a committee on the bill to grant a
s relief to Jonathan Bayard Smith and Peter
Wikoff, but not having gone through the (
,1 fame, the committee had leave to fit again. "5
e On the 15th instant, petitions were pre
y fented from a number of citizens of Phila
j delphia, and its vicinity, praying for leave
l to bring in a bill to authorize the Governor
1 to incorporate a company for the ere&ion of
a bridge across the Delaware at or near
' Trenton; and from the owner of the land it,
. on which leave had been prayed for the etec- ; c
tion 0/ a EWy at Peterlburg, on the Suf- £
f quehanna, against the measure. Bills were I
reported in favour of James Moore of Alle- '
| ghany county, and to charge the place of |
holding elections in the towr.fhip of Upper
. Paxton. The reports on the petition of cer- j
tain landholders on Guilder's Creek ; that 1 D
authorizing the petitioners from the New- i w
Hanover town (hip, in Montgomery county f e
to bring in a bill to raise 500 dollars, by a m
lottery, for the ere&ion of a School-house ; ' f t;
and that authorizing the railing of 2000 w
dollars in the fame way, for the erection of ] a
a bridge across Sweetara Creek at Jones- w j
town, were fcverally agreed to. t j.
On the 16th, a resolution was agreed to |th
for the appointment of a committee to en-1 ot
quire whether any and what alterations ought
to be made in the fees of the land office?—
The house went into a committee on the
bill to declare certain roads to be state roads,
and, after considerable debate, the bill was ' fla
disagreed to. 1 lie bill for the improvement '
of the navigation of the river Lehigh was " h '- ;
read a third time and passed.
RfADING, JAKUaHV 13. to
On Saturday the 6th in it, was executed or the 'ha
,Qommon< near this town, aniidft a concourse of ,r ° u
eight or ten thousand people, Benjamin Btily, tri- tail
ed and condemned for the niu. der of Joft Fa haffi- fle;
er, a pedlar, the beginning ol Wovcmber lift, ing
before the President ot this diflric?, Judje Rufn, arn
and the rffociate judges of Beijts county. tee
The evidence upon which he was conviited.tho pla
circunilfautial, was of the most fatisfailory and p| a
convincing nature, so that not a doubt of his guilt v. ei
remained in any breaf!:. Themuider was com- Cl |
mitted on the CatawtlTey r6ad, near the house of j s ]
John Reick, tavrinkce per, where Eaily had taken ; t j,
up his quarters in the character of a hunter
Whenfentenced to death, heaccufed the tavern- £j°
keeper, and faidfo had perpetrated the crime, and
given him the goods which belonged t» the pedlar, "•*
snd v/erefound in his »• fft-flion. He pcrfilled in
this declaration till la o'clock of the night pre
vious to his execution, at wl ich time he f.nt for
the Iheriflf of the county, and made a full confeff
ion of his own guilt, and the tavernkeer's inno
cence— He acknowledged he had shot Falh.ifter in
the back, and that he afterwards knocked out his
brains with a tomahawk; and that Reick knew
ncthing of it, and was innocent
He_ was taken from the gaol on foot, and walk-
ed at the tail of a cart, between two clergymen,
who fupparted him to ihe place of execution, Cl *.'
where he repeated the fame acknowledgments, and
wa« launched into -ternity, an awful and reluitant mc!
vidim to the violated laws of God and man.
in tl
From the Ncu>-Yorli Gazette. -pi lf
To the Commercial World, the Frmmers of our Lmius, f< -
and Creditors of Insolvent Debtors. b
Orcafionedby a late fraudulent decampment.
THEoOlden role is lo excellent in its nature,
so valuable in itsfffedts, and so receflary for so- T
ciety, that it is in realit) the fubftaiics of our duty, rell
both to God and out neighbor ; it fhouldbe riv- Bor
eted as a brealt-ciate on the Jiearts of all men ; it Dru
fliould be implanted on the mind* of our children, iVai
and every encouragement given to grow with their E
growth, asd flre igthen wi h their ftreiigth. But, trag
can any man of common undei (landing believe, P
that theframers t.t ourmfolvrnt livvs were influ- of tl
enced by this gold t k kui.e ? Now the reverse is or, s
very evijent—what are its effects, and bow does I
it operate on the mindii of some ? Why, the man lar :
whose heart perhaps, b#fi re was free frpm guilt.
and had long sustained the thaiafler of an honefl ana
min, m » hasty fit of desperation, pztFtrstke cU.
uI" T , 3 • <rfe scii as lar ? e > to » r °U" <'»
Ml tebtorvic cerfncjrtnt are termed 4>yth.ir*re«
__ dUor.j crooded in »u
ftv;rcy of creditors, lawyers, and fteriffs ; how
msi.y mflancts h»ve occurred in th 5 cirv of per*
g sons makng tkeir oun dwellings a prifon'fc.p
I Wtnths Md y.afs at the fame time offering thcii ,
I L 'Y' r crs'litor*, tut every me.Su m
effeflual th .y have at leagrh b-.en oiliged to ban.
tell "k t0 *"♦* tor - igri country 111 order to
obtain Idrrty, that darling principle of the human
wo mind .surely men ought not to be ptraifhed fcr
bey nus/oriOßes. A» infoivent debtpr ftould be found
a trh , el on-, befere jmci&me«;t be infliSed 1 And
until our laws are amended, so that the debtor is
iaf- ~ x"'^ 1 tV u ' c!;V: " r U P hi ' r r ®r*enr upon oath,
aftd obtain a releafj, many inlUnces of fraudulent
d' campnimts may I e expend ; and While the
the P laws eii/l, ,t is ,L< d u ty of every man who ~
the fino, hi, affairs ,n an nt Care, immediately
cd J <,f «" r '- h ' s property and hi, person, the former
_ for h,s crea.tor,, the latter from the diftrcfle. of
a loathlonie gaol It i his duty to do this alio, Ju
ne cau.e t»ut portion which.otberwife would have
er . been wafied on lawyers, (heriffs and gar.lcr,, is
hff now in rrfcrve w.th che reft, for his creditor,
whenever they choose to receive it. justice.
if =
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
ill
The brig N. Carolina, Marker from cape
or Francois to this port has put into Newborn
•f- N. C. Capt. Hoare of the brig Houde,
ile from St. Jago de Cuba, informs, that he
■y left at that port, Dec. :c, the brig Adivc
Williams of this port captured by a French
privateer, about the 4th ult. on her paflage
P from hencejtojamaica ; the capt. and papers
;l> gone to the Cape for trial,
id Brig John, Smith, ofthisport.
Brig Fair American, do. (Told) both to
fail in 3 or 4 weeks,
ly Sloop —.—, Pease, of this port went in,
n- had been liberated, and failed for L'ancevau
a few days before the Florida.
;s " . Nmu-Tork, Jan. 16.
ARRIVED *1 DAys
Ship Patsy, , Liverpool 76
Jane, Gardner, do. 69
m Nahcy, Forreft, Newry 76
' Brig Chryfeis, Hudson, Martinique. 24
Nymph, Williams, Havre 68
Florida, Heave, St. Jago d« Cuba
Prudence, Williams, Savannah 8
Flora, Stevens, C.N. Mole 30
lr Schr. Elizabeth, , Norfolk 10
e Richmond, Thomas, Savannah 19
Mary-Ann, Swain, Richmond 11
Americana, Bell, Wilmington 12
e Elizabeth, Toulfon, Richmond 8
' Sioop Lucy, Stone, North-Carolina 12
Walhington, Kennedy, Nixonton 34
e Captain Williams of the brig Nymph,
1 arrived on Sunday from Havre.
r Left there ship Minerva, Siffon, ant? bfig*
e George, Ricords, and Lil'ton, Car of New-
York.
Brig William, Hart, of Philadelphia.
Brig William, Wells, of Baltimore.
: Schr. Isabella, Jones, of Boston.
J. Sloop Caroline, Cleaveland, of Salem.
Nov. 13, in the Channel, was boarded
J by a French privateer from Nantes, who
1 treated him politely, -had taken the Amer
ican brig Thomas, of Portfmsuth, from
London, bound to Boston.
Nov. 24, lat. 44 53, long 42, spoke ship
Minerva, of and from Boston, for London.
I Continual gales and bad weather from
the 26th Nov. to the latter end of Dec.
' j Capt. Williams remarks, that on the 28th
Dec. ship lying too, wind at S. S. W. he
wore ship to the eastward, vrhen a heavy
ft a (truck his bows,but did no damage. How
I much worse would it have been, had that
fca struck the stem ; therefore with S. W.
winds, ships should be cautions how they
lay too with their heads to N. and W. in
j Which cafe, if a sudden fhift should happen,
| the vefTel's stern would be much expoled to
! the sea before she could be got upon the
other tack.
CHARLESTON,"(S. C.) Dec. ao.
On the iß;h of September last the brig Am
i uerdara, Capt. Scott, arrived here from Amfier
j dam. Aho.it a fortnight before her arrival, she
f'lddealy fprun;» a leak, which was so alarming
that capt. Scott thought i: necefiW to keeo
his boa: in readii-.efs to leave her, should it in
crease : fortunately file got in fafe. After her
cariro was discharged, ihe was sent ta Hobcaw
to have tiie leak fearclied for ; in the firft fide
that was hove out, evrry plank was found to be
• ound and in excellmt condition ; but 0.1 exam
ining the other (kit, it was discovered, that in.
Head of a def'eft in the vefTcl the leak wi, ow
ing to a stroke (he had received from a fiih,
armed with a horn ; a pirt of the horn, four
teen aud a half inches long, was left in the third
(i ank from ihe keel ; after
pi.inc.it pafKd between two timbers, which
were very clwfe to each other, where it remain
ed like a wedge. Th« horn is of an oval (nape ;
1 s largell diameter is upwards of two inches ;
It is solid, and has the appearance of coarse ivol
ry. ft is'now in the po.Teflion of Florian
t-narles Mey, E(iq. the owner of the brig.
NEW-THEATRK.
ON FRIDAY EVENING,
JANUARY 19,
Will be presented, t ;, e ce'e u rated Tragedy of
ISABELLA ;
OR, THE FATAL MARRIAGE.
Count Baldwin, mr Warren—Biron, mr Fennell
—Carlos, mr Wignell—Villeroy, mr Moreton—
Child, matter Warrell—Sanipfon, mr Francis—
Belford, mr Fox—Office , mr Warrell—Servants,
mefTr< Bliffett, Hunter, Lafferty, Ac.
liabslla, mrs Merry (being herfirft anocarance
in that charadler) —Nurf<?, tm s U'fiftrange.
In a3 111. ai EPi rHALAMIUM.
The vocal parrs hy Messrs. Darly, Marlhall, Har
dinge, V. arre'i— virs. O.cimixon, Miss Mail
b< urce, S:c. See.
To*which will be added, a FARCP,, caihfti
TWOSTRISGSTO YOUR.BOW ;
OR, TUE MAN WiTH TWO MASTERS.
Tion Pedro, mr Fr2nci'—DeiiSancho, mr
rell—Oftavio,mr Fox—Ferdina(i,mr Warrell* jun,
Borachio, mr Warren—Lazarii'o, mr Bernard
Drunfeeii.Porter, mr Bliffett—.Waiters, meffrs T.
tVarrell, Hunter, &c.
Donna Clara, mrs Francis—Leonora, miss L'£f
trage—Maid, mrs Do>3.or.
S?' On Saturday evening the favorite Come !v
of the Jew : to which will be arded, the Criti; ;
or, a Trigeif Rchearfed.
B ; x. one Dollar ; Pit, three quarten of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
£s* The doors of the I will of en at £ve,
ana the cuitain rife precisely at C* o'ciocn.PROPOSALS
so a
CARRYING THE PUBLIC M/IILS
on the following Port Roads will be re
ceived ac the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
P RNNSYL r.l XIA, We.
1. From Philadelphia by Wil jimgt.jn, Nearcaf
tle. Cm well's bridge. Duck creek, Dover, Fred-
C'-Ci, Mi'.ford, Clough«, Trao,
Saawhill, Horntown and Aecomac court to
Northampton court kaufr three tim-« a week
A!, ilt> S member J J Leave Philadelphia ev
er* ;'jcfd.iy,'fhuifday and Saturday at 2 a aa,and
afrriee at Northamptus court hotjfe on Thtifday,
Satnr lay aiidMonday at7 J tM. Returning. Leave
N.'ii rr>ani|ttoncourt t»t<ufc cverr i'riiay, Monday
jn I Wcdmfdaylot 2 a it, and arrive at Pliiladel
fhi.t on Monday, Wednesday aad Friday by 7 l-i
m. |
Kutmltr I lie April 1. Leave Philadelphia ev- |
'ri i"u fly, Thursday and Saturday at 6A M,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, '
Monday and W-dnefday by 7 PM. Returning—
Leave Northampton court house every Saturday,
Tn-riay and Thursday at 6 A at, and arrive at
,I'hilidelpr.iA on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 r M.
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
t!w»e tira.ja wick. ,
Afrit I tc November 15. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
d y at 8 p at, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours.
P. nrning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
ibyand Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court houle in twenty lour hour*.
November 15 to April i. Leave Northampton
court house every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
at ja u, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 h~urs. Re
torting—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wedaef- '
day ar:d Friday by 4 a at, and arrive at North amp- ,
ten cur: house In 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New- ;
port ,Chrifliana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge
to >v j crof. roads to Chpflertlown three times 1 week.
May Ito Nivernier I. Leave Philadelphia overy ; ,
Sumtay, Tuesday Thursday by 9 T at, andar- (
nve at Cheftertown the next days by 8p m. Re- |
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- ]
refday and Friday by 9p m , and arrive at Phila- 1
deiphia the next days hy 8 r it.
November 1 it May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- |
ry .Mo»day and Friday by 9 am, and arrive at |
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 p at.
Ac turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and (
Friday by 8 a at, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 r at. , 1
MARYLAND. I
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eaflon, ■.
Ni* Market, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill andPrin- ;
c«fs Ami to Salisbury once a week.
Receivethe mail at Cheftertown "every Wednef- 1
day at 7 a.« arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave 1
Eallon on Thursday by 6a m , art iv j atSnowhiH I
0:1 Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 p.
m. Returnirg—LeavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by ;
10 a*, arrive at Eaflon the next day or Monday ,
by 6[• m L'iVP £al(on on Tuesday by 8 a at,and 1
aruve it Cheftertown unierfay by 4 P "■ 1
5. From Harford by B. l-Air to the Black hotfe
one. a wc..k. '
Leave Hstferrf every Tuesday 1-y loam, and
arrjv a' Black liorfe by 6p a. Returning— Leave j
Blackhorfe on Wednesday by 6a m, and arriveat 1
MarTord the next TuefiUiy ly'9 a m. ;
PENNSYLVANIA, W JUTLAND and VIR- 1
GIMA.
' 6. From Baltimore by BUckhorfe to Yorktown 1
Pa. once a week. <
\ I.eave Baltimore every Friday by 4p m, arrive
at Blackhorfe 00 Saturday sty 10 a at, and arrive 1
at Yoihtown by 8 pm. Returning— Leave York- ]
town every Thursday by 7 a it, and ar<i»e at Bal- <
timoreon Friday noon. ]
7. prom Yorktown by Hanover, Peter/burg, |
Taneyton andftedericktown to Leefburg once a ,
week.
Lrivc Yorktown every Moodaf at 8 a M.irrivc ,
at Fredericktownon Tuifdayhy jm, indarrive '
at Leefburg on Wedntfday by 2P m. Returning—
Leave Leelburg every Friday at noon, ano arrive
at Yorktown by 6 P u on Sunday.
'B. From Yorktown by Abbotftown.Gettifburg,
Fairfield, Ehaabethtown, Williamfport, Martins- ;
burg, Winchester, Stevenfbur'g and Strafburg to
Wootfftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg 011 Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on l'hurfday by 6 A m, arrive at Mar
tinfburi: on Fiiday by II a u, andarrive atYork
town on.fiunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Waging- ,
ton, Well Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
f'ilh:ng creek one - a week for one year ]
only.) 1
Leive Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
ri»e at Fifhingcreck on Su day at 9 ATT. Return
ing—Leavujt ifhn.g creek on Wednesday at 8 A at, (
and at rive »t Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Walt.ington by Brownfvillc and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Onion every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6 r at. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Ltave Morgantown ou Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 r at.
11. Trom Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Chambcrfburg to Ship,
penfbnrg once a week.
I.eave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by io a at, atfili
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
on Monday by 7p m- Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at 9 a at, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m, at Fredericktown on Wednesday
Boon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 r m.
MARYLAND
12. From Elizabethtowu by Hancock and Old
to vn to Cumberland once a week .
LiaveCumherlatid every Saturday by 6 a at,and
arrive at Elilaieihtown 011 Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 A at, and arriveat Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 T at,
13. From Baltimore to Annapolisonce a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8. a at, and
arrive at An apolis by 5 p at. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by i r at.
14. From Baltimore by Queen Ann>,
Upper Mailborough,Pifcat3w;iy,Porttobacco, -1-
ltnafrefh, Newport and Chiptico to Leonardtown
once a week.
I.eaTt Baltimore every Friday at 10 a at, arrive
it Annapolis at jtii. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 A at, arrive at l'pp«:r Marlborough
by neon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 p at. & arrive at
Leonwdtown every Monday forcn on by 90' dock.
Jlrtuni-'g —Leave Leonardtown ryery Monday at 3,
p K, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p 1.1
arrive at Upper Marlfcoreugh on Wednesday by
11 au, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a at, and arriveat
B-iti-ucre by 3 r m
- 15 I ron-. Annapolia by Lower Marlborough,
1 i;:r.tiii'ton and Calvert comt house. to St. Leon
ards ot ce a week
Leave Atinapoli- every at 9 a at, and
arriveat St. Leonards on Monday hy 3 p at. Re
—Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
p a, auJ airive at Anna|H.lis il.c uaxt Saturday by
6 am
-10. From Bladerfrurg by Upper M^ilborcugh,
tm Not in,;him, lf*(r\htl!iM3uA Accji ;lc >,3iO
nvdict a nJ CJurlottehill to CrA;>tico o.icca week
Lti/e BiadeiUburg very 3i-rj.iv a! 9 a y,ar
riv" at Upper Marl M'rn'i'r. by noon and at Lower
Monday by 5 r v, & at Chaptico
jS bjr 6 r m. R.iirr:-^ —l.earrt hip-icotvrry rharf.
day at 6 a u, and arrive at BiaJeufburg on Satyr
day at 6 a a.
:il 17 Fton Genrge»o*vn by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
t arriveat Fredericktown "by 6v si Returning—
Leave Fuedericktown every llinifday fey j a »,
L f~ and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p *t.
<J- VIRGINIA.
J > IS. From Woodllock by Newmarket, R icking
lo han court house, St lunton, Lexir-gton aod Fincaf
tle ip Big Li A onee a Wee!;.
Leave '.Voodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
id rive at Staunton on Friday at Ip m. Leave Staur.-
)'• ton every Friday at a m, arrive a*- Big Lick on
re l>y 11 am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
i' on Suutiay by 1r M, arrive at Staunton every Tuef-i
'* day by II m. Leave Stauntom by i» o'clock
' I )uoor) and arrive at Woo Jftock on Wednesday by
!5 r "■
! 19. From Big Lick by Monrgom ry court house
'■ and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
'• I Leave Big Lick every Sanda; at Ip m, arrive
~ at Wythe court house oj Tuesday by j»p u, and at
• Abingdon on Wedaicfilay by 6 r at. Retiming—
-1 Leava Abingdon every l'hurfday by 6a m, arrive
f at Wythe court house on Friday by j p at, and ar
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by ham.
TENNESSEE.
: 10. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jontfborough
Greenville,Mo/Tat's [lore and jefferfou court houle
to Knoivilie once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffats llorc on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave 1
Moffats by 9 a at, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun- |
day by IO a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by 2 P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3p m. Leava Moffats <n Monday at 4p m,
and ai rive at Abingdon on Wednsfday by 7 pm.
VIRGINIA.
it, From Winchellcr by Romney to Moorfields
once a week.
Leave Wincheftef every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arriveat Moorfield .»n Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a*ll,and
arriveat Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M,
21. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a h,
ind arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m:
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon & arriveat Alexandria on Monday by 7 am
23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Glouceftcr court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by 11 a at. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at t P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at Frederickikurg on Tuesday by j PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Wettmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham -church and Northumberland court house ro
Laucafter court house once a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11
a at. Returning—Leave Lancaster court hoofc ev
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive at Tappahafl
nusk oi: Monday by 11 a at.'
25. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house &Orangec. h. to Charlottefvllleonce a week.
Leave Fredericklburg every Tuesday at to a w,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
at. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Fredericklburg on T«ef
day by 6 a at.
26. From Richmond by Gooehland court-"
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond ev«ry Tlieftisy at x r M, ar
rive at Charlottefville 011 Thursday by 11 A M.
Leave Cbarlo'trfville bv noon and arrive at
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton oji Saturday by 6 A m, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 P M, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
27. Fp«m Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 a M,and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier aourt
houfe evtfry Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Staunton 011 Thursday by 8 P M.
18. From Charlattefvile by Warren, War
minfler, New-Market, Amherft court house,
CabelMburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thurfd-iy at 1 P
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lync+iburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefvifte
on Thursday by 10 A m.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
er if carried in Aages as often a* they fball run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 A M. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 P m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 P M.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court houl'e, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Loave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A it,
arriveat Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-London by 10 Am. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 1; P M, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 P M, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week. *
Leave New London every Friday at I P M,
and arrive at Fincallle cn. Saturday by 6 pm.
Returning—Leave Fincafile «n Monday at 5 A
i M, and arriveat New London on Tuesday noon.
' 32- From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinvillc on Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
j and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33- From Prince Edward court hotife by
t Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once 3 week.
Luve Prince F.dwar-' court houfeevery Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court honle,
, on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal-'
itax couithmife on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
■ live at Pnnee Edward court house on Satarday
by 6 P M.
l VIRGINIA andNORTH.CAROLINA.
t 34- From H4itax court-house by Halifax old town,
Carters, Mininvillr, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau-
I re, Germantown and Beihair.atoSaicm once id two
1 weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
, 2, PM, aod airive at Salem the next Monday bs 6,
t PM. Returning—LeaveSa!etn every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and airive at Halifaxcouit-lioufe on Fri
day by 10, A M.
$5. Fiom Harris's by Hickes'sford 10 Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednefday£nd Saturday by
j, A M. and arrive tl Halifax !>y 6, P M. Return
ing—leave Halilax cvtry Tlrurfoay and Sunday by 6,
M, end arrive at Hanis'sKy 7, P. M,
, rIRC IMA.
36. From c mi'hficM by Southampton court-house J
to Hrckcs's ford once a v> t ek.
I-er.e H"H.ks**f:>fd Kr-.dry by e, P vl»
•nd arrive at SmitniieUi »n .'♦aiuriay by 5* P M.—
Returning—J.&tveSoi'.ihfte d rvery other xutday
5, A M, and arrive at liickl'* Jord on Monday by
a, PM
37. by G'efbtidgr, St. Tamtn»iv'»»
jod Lu-»ciiburg courc**"»ufes 3iid td
munjs (Ivxeia Go-dfan*» '«c« * week.
Leave v 'AedneCdayat io, A M, and
return t-^enext Saturday by «, P M, waiting at c«w:n
PollOiEce 2 hours aitei delivery of the ma» ,
rtaGl\ T //r '3 X)ilTri-C IROLINA.
38. From Suffolk by Lden>or, Pi vmour h,and Wa
' fhiugtnu to Newbeti., one; a wcck Leave Sutiolk
every Monday at noon, airive at Edentoii 00 i'uei
dayatit P M, at Piyitioa-h, on Wednefdjy by 6,
A M, at Wifhiiijjtun by 6, P VI, and at N'cwkrn on
P M. Reiumiag—Leave Ncwbem
every Friday by 6, A M, ariive at by
5* P M. Ariive at Plymouth on Saturd-iy by 4
P M, a: Edenton on Sunday by g, A M, ai.daiSuf-
ou A! ;; 1•. j v hv q. rt M. )
m)R rH'CAROLIXA.
< 39 Fratn Edentonby Hertford, >Jixonto», Eliza
b*m 'city, a«d*Jorieiburg to Indian-town, 01.ee a
week. *
Leave Edenton every Wcdnefday bv 1, P M, and
arrive at Indian-town on Thu fday b) 6, P M. Rc
turoiag—Leave Indiar.townevery Tuesday by AM,
and arrive at Edenton on Wedncfday at il, A M.
40. from Halifax by Northampton c urt-hou r e l
Princeton, Wmtou and Windsor
to Edenton. once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wcdnefday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wcdnefday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Saturday by rl, A M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
ton and Daily'* to Plwnoutht once a wick. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth' on W r e?lntfday by 10, A M. Returning—
-1 Leave Plymouth on Wcdnefday at 2, P M, and ar
| rive at Halifax ori Friday at 10, A M. i
42. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Walbingtononee a week
Leave Halifax «very Monday at jo, A M, and ar
rive at Walhiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Wajhington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warrenton, WiUiamfborough,
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Sa»em, Lexing
ton, Saliibwry and Statefville to Charlotte and trom
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salt (bury, and
from tkence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week. ,
Leave Halife* every Monday at 9. A M, arrive at
Wairemon by 7, P M» arrive at Hillfborough on
Wedncfday at 4, P M, at Salem on Fuday by 5,
P M, at Salisbury on at tj, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Retumirtg—W*.
on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Sahlbury
on Tuesday by 10, A M, arrive at Salem ».on Wed
nesday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warrerrtonon Saturday at 7, PM» and at
Halifax «n Monday at 6, A M
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Leafburg, Cafwell court-honfe and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantown ouce in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, A 2*
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and argve at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, MorgantOD and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg io S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem cveiy other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wcdnefday at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m.
46. From Louifburg by Nafh aourt-houfe to Tar
boTOUgh once a week.
Leave Tar borough every Friday by 6 a m, and af
riveat Louifburg by 6 pm. Bcturnmg—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r
47. From Raleigh by Smithfield, Waynefboroagh,
and Kingston lo once in two weeks.
Leave F.ileigh every other Tuesday by 8 am, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leaye Newbern every other Friday by 2
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
and from Hillfbocough by Chapel hill aud Chatham
court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at HilHborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough twy Wedncfday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From Faycttcville by Elizabcthtown, Bellefort
and SpringfieVd'to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Sarefto and, Sampson court
house to Fayettevillc, once a week.
Leave Fayettevillc every Tuesday at 6 am, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
luming—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 am,
aud arrive at Fayetteville op Sunday by 5 p m.
50. Frotn Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
coart-houfc to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon court-house and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leive Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noan and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Treoion and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newborn every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 pm.
SOUTH y NORTH CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
lotee and Liucolrrton to Statefville, ouce in two
wrefcs.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 p m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 ? m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
couit-houfe, Pinckncyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-hcufe Pickcnfville, and
from Pickenfville by Liurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poll-office on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanbujg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Fiiday at 4 r m, and at Columbia on
Sundav by 6 p m.
5 From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcllon,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar
rive at Charleftonon Thursday at io a m. Returning
—Leave Charlcflon every Thursday at z p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peter!
burg to Washington, and from by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß am ,
arrive at Pendkton court-house on Sunday by 9 a m
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p wj at PeteTfburg
on Tuesday by 10 a m, and at Washington by 5 p
*4. .Lea Waifiington every Wednefday;,at 6a m,
at Camb idge on 1 fcvrfday by \o a m, 2r.d at Edge
field bv 7pm.
j6 From All go (la by Waftiington, Greenfburg and
Lexington once a week.
Leave Augufla every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Waihington on Tuelday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Geofgeiown ou Ihurfdav by 7 Aeturiing—
Leave Georgetown evesy Fiiday at 6A m, andanive
at Augusta by noon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once 1 week.
Leave Ucaufcjrt every Tkurfdayat2 p m, and arrive
a: Gajr.ens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—LeaveGaw.
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note I. 7'be Pcjl Mafler General may alter the times
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of the control?s y be previo'fly Jlipulating an adequate corn- I
penfztion for any etctrif expense that Kay id occaftoned there
h-. .
AW. 2. Half an hour JLall bt allowed Jor opening
and elefmg the Mail at all ojjii cs where no particular tinu
is fpictfiJ.
Xo'.e ,q. for cvety kou>*4 delay (nnai*idul>.'e acciaents
excepted) in artiiing af'er the times prefer ibid in any con
trad, the Contra^or Jkall JorJeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure *>f any ,'r!>crutin* Maif,
ishereh the Mails defined for such dependi** Mail, bfe
i a 'trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive do Cars fkall be
incurred*
Nate 4- Nnofpapers at well as Let' ers are to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any person muling propfils desires
to carry nezaf papers other than those conveyed in the mail,
for bis own emolument, be mufl Jlate in bis prop fats for
-what sum be will carry it with that emolument and for
wbdP tuns without that r*wolnment.
Note Should any person naming proposals desire an
alteration of the femes of arrival a-id departure above fpe
cifiedy be must Huts in bis pripofals the alterations deltred y
|an i the difference they will ni*iLe in/be terms of bit con
• trafl.
Note 6. Perjans muling proposals are JijtrcJ to fate
! ibeir prices in grefs by the ye.ir % and not by the mile»
| Those wbo'tontraft will recrvi their pay f3?rtrrlf % in
J the m+titbs of January % April % Jrrly anil QRo'.r, in
; drafts on the pol offices on the route and in bank notes.
j Note 7 contra&h are to be in operation on the frfl
! day of April next, and continue for four years, until
; the 31fl day of March inclufvc, in the year 18OS.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Potl-Mafier General.
Gbneral Posr OfFict, 7
Philadelphia, December 18, 17y 7» j
tuthscsti 4thF
JUST RECEIVED, ~
(via Ncvv-Y'.rk)
AND NOW OPENING, IV
George Dobson,
No. 15, feuth Third street,
An extenlive and general aflbrtmerit of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London milt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, aflor-
Makenzie'sfupcr,patent ted colours
white chapel Ntcdles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thrwad no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly afTorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. 130 to 500, Black J nd coloured Chi
regularly alTorted ness Rii)baijds
Coloured do.* 1 Sattin and figured do.
Black fevving Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to I2d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet 1k pcton Sattim-
Silk and cotton Wires 'French Gambrick
I>« ft*. TTiMfands r Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wire# gilt and pkted
ttiack brush Feathors Buttons
And a complect affbrtoient of Goods, fu it able
to the prdent and approaching season, at reduced
prices Dec. 6. dtf
Tin Plates,
Ton SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
Musical Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of hij new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French karp
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, fitnplicity and durability of conftrudtion, the
faperiority of which Jie flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—At they
are manufa&ured under his immediate iafpe&ion,
of the very be?: seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms for Cass. Inflrumsnts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes tak«n in ex
change for new. —:; —:
novemier 18. aawamo.
&am«el & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a freih
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
the feafou, seceived by the li te arrivals from Eng
land.
They have also ftr Sale,
Lisbon
Sherryfand ( In P'P c: > hWs - ar ' d quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Aiforted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. diwjtawjw.
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South SecondJireet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for (ale, on
reasonable terms. OA 47. —4W
" FO R SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7J, South
Water-street,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. LnteO.rings
Do., d«. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewingjiilks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and fbert Nackeens
■ Silver, iu .ttths.
Holland Gia, pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havana Sagars, in boxes
Molafles, in hogshead*
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
l.otidon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wine#, in qixirtcr
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logv/ood, Sec. &c.
hov. 7, —tu&f4w yOSEPH SIMS.
Frefli Raisins.
A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
£\. at Chefnut ilreet wharf, from thefloopYa
citp. capt. Hafkell, conlifting of Kegs, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
of foft shelled Almonds. .Apply to ihe Mailer
ou board, or to ■
Jos. Anthony Iff Co.
December 19 v §.tt
Alphabetical Lift of DutievS,
Payable by law on all Good*, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported "into the U rvitad States— latest
edition, to be iofd by JOHN ORVIRQD, no. 41,
Ch^fniu-ftreet. . Dec i6-^d
i'his Day is Pubiifhed,
&Y Me(T. Dob fori, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other 3ookMlcis.
Price One Dollar and twenty -five cent
Elegantly printed on IVwe paper, and Hot ■
prejjecf,
Rv Jolm fhiimpAin,
. A COTTAR vriVE VIEW OF
The Conllitutions
Of the several States wjtn each other*'and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
cluflingtogether their molt important prortfions,
under the several heads of admieiftration j with
Notes and Observation*.. /•
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Svutb-Carafina,
L L. D. and member of Ccaigrefs of the
United Stages.
Dedicated to tlw People of the United States.
N. B. A few Coni 1 printed 02 an inferior pa
per, atj-4thsof a dollar.
! City Commissioner's Office,
January, ink, n .
' ™p7,: NrORM - ,Ti, ' N "thicu,;,.
I r ■ ; ol ° wlB K arrangement is made b(h
J- laid Commiflioaer», for cle«iiGn-, the
itreets, <scc. * ' *
1 iflrid No. i • Fmro the north fide of Vm t
flrect to the f'imh fide of
' be under t.,e fupm.uendaace of Nicholas HicVs
,U*'lZw ! I m ", h Hllc of ""'berry street, to
the south fule of CMaut street to be under the
lupenndance ot Will, am Moulder.
3- Rrom the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fupenntenuance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street. to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendameef Hugh Roberts. mwfim
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that hi
books, which have been kept open for their infpec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the ' ift
ult. and will during the present month .cniain
open at his Couutißg-houfe in Chefnut Street for
theu- further inveftigatioa and fuutny.
m, i , 111 _ JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ill 175,8.
JuJI received a Frejb Supp!y.~
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements
ADAPTED to the different classes of learner.-
tvith an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervatioss for alTilting the more advanced lludents
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
Br LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and full
answers the profeflions in the Title, 'iheapn -J
dix contains fomc of the best rules for writing,,*
legantly, a.id with propriety, that we recoiled to
nave seen.
.. TK- r- Men 'Mj Reviexv, July 17 „ 6 . ,
This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its mateiials have been
carefully a„d judiciously feleded ; itsariargcme.it
lsdiftinvft and well adapted to the purpose of in
ilrudion and its expreffios is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &c u " 1 *
Jt atrf re< e l ' Je
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately pubiitbed by
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts ot ffieech, inflancesof salsa orthoirranhv
violations of the rules of fynrax, defects in P „ nc .
tuation, and violations of the rules refiictftii,..
perspicuity and accuracy, deGgned f»r the benefit
of private learners, a? well as tor theufe of fchcols
" We have been much pleased with the perufjj
of these Exercises. They occupy with dillinjuilh
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
of the EnglifU language; and as fact, we can
warmly recommend t'hera to the Teachers 0 f
Schoos, as well as to all those who ate desirous of
attaining correanefs and precision in tlieir native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1707.
The above Books are for sale at Jos* ph & lamii
Cruksiianks book store, No. 87, Market street.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN away fremthe fobferiber, on the 14th
of December, 1797, a Negro Man, about»
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about / feet'
7or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; h<
has a very coufe voice, his fore teeth ftani very
far apart; there were one or two wit^him—l
cannot rightly describe the clo»th« he took wStf
hini > for he took two or three suits ; he had or
when he went away, a pair of kersey trowfets, ;
half Worn drab coloured cost, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very gooif Ihirts—"
'' X P C "he has- made for Philadelphia or the ferfeyi.
Whosoever takes up said negro and f. cures him, si
that the owner may get him again, shall hare thi
above reward, paid by mo, JOHN MOOS.E,
Living in Still PobJ, Kent county, Maryland
January 2. ' »6tiaw
Wanted,\ to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, inornea
the centre of the city—for which .1 gdnerou
rent'wjll begiven; to be taken ior a year, or oh
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
Oft. 17. eotf
Valuable Books,
7 %
Just received by the Fai* American fron
London, and now opening and felling b-
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
catalogues
Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual stock, forma
extensive and elegant colleiifion of ancient an
modern literature, jnd comprise books In fut
dry languages and on various fubjefls.
This Day is Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Pi-ice 75 cents, haadfomel
bound and lettered, and embellilhed with a>
elegant froHtifpiece and seventy three cuts.;
The Looking Glnfs,for the Mind .
\ ~ ,i,iss or,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable coltaflion of intereftnig an
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit I
young minds the happy eft'edls of youthful ir
norence and filial affeflion—ln prole and verb
Defigncd to improve and amuse the rising gem
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pAlifbei
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subfciiptions for this incomparable work u"
be thankfully received by the printer. The beo
vrill contain about three hundred pages, 1'
printed with a new type on fine paper, and <i>
livered to fubforibers neatly bound, letteird an
embellilhed with an elegant fror.tifpiece, for 01
dollar.
January 3.
i'his Day Published,
And to be fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG, corner
Second and Chefnut ftrcets,
Price $-%tbs of a Dollar,
Ob/ervations on teriain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
« The History of the United States
the year 1796," .
In which the charge of speculation
ADEXA-NDER HAMILTON,
Late S«£*itrjißY of yhe l«>.ASuar L i» t.
REFUTED.
fr RIT TS N Br BIM SE l
This publication preicnts a cciic.K _ at«me •
of the fcafe means prailifed by rus Jacoi 1 . '
United States to asperse J
pjrfonswhoarc confidcredas hofti c
1 ganiziro; schemes. It a conta'.]
■ refpondence between Mr. H.n«lto.. Mcfi.
I Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Ve * » • '_
, jea of the docaßienls alorelaid.and a fcr
' tersfrom James Reynolds andlv» wife
milton, proving beyond th e P° '. D u l. n cyco jjs,
that the connection between him 31 " the cat
was the reftftt of a daring confffi« c '
. of the latter and his associates taex ort n )•
0- A dttccunt of or..* thirdlromthe reud py
will be made in favor of who.cfi c pu. '
CASH. Orders to be addressed tj> Mr
August 25.