of tfje Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbmi J730.J
Freight Wanted.
EOk BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Bbig
HENRIETTA,
P«tcr P. Schmidt, MaJUr y
NOW at Jtfleandß Wtla'i
, stout, fltong veCTeb of about 270 tons b*r
tfcen, irv good
ready to-gaon board, and begins to load to-morrow.
sot F-rtigbt arty. apply ro
PRATT & KINTZING,
No North. Wit i-ftreet.
mob™ JUST RFC Sir ED, and FQti SALE,
12 bales Ticklfhurg* and Oznabrigs
2 do. Patterbornes
I do bleached HefTrans
X package Oil Cloth
X < hell and 8 barrels Snuff Eoxcs.
•?0 Liquor Cases- |
a$ anchor* pearl Barylc, nJ
4 cafe* elegant Carriage lUrncls, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE iAL,|—
Claret i«i Cdfe«. Port ire in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmuUbcxea, Rice, Brim'o-ne, Tumblers, Win
dow G'aft, Slates, a cargo of excellent MahOgi
ny, Htfiians, Brown Rolls, Polish Likens, er> pty
CfefFce Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march ao tuthsiw
For NEW-YORK,
SARAH,
Captain Cqo»sn-
Hkl IGH I" will be taker. on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN
mnrch 17. §
"" For NEW-YORK,
he fine new, faO faijirg Sloop
CONCORD,
w&if Stephen Cahoone, majlsr ;
V»li.L take freight on very
moderate term<; for whfch, or pafiage (hdving
elegant accommodations) apply to the matter on
board, at Clifford's wharf.
march i6>
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruffcl's Wars
Surthen I■hi'-—three y<sars oM, built oftbe best
materials and is well found—would answer well
fbr ft eeafter, as (he hasexeellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney Ss 9 Smith.
march r3 §
For Boston,
The Ship
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majler.
fp>U To fail in a few days.
SKsSaesS?"tsKa Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
Or paffag#, apply to the Captain, or to
Ifanc Harvey, jun.
5, South W.ter-ilraet.
march 12. §' w
' FOR SALE,
Weft lnd an,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, is coppered, {heathed and bolted, 3 y«a»rs
«ld, fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at South-llrfcet wharf, ready to
load PETER BLIGHT,
marfch 6. • § 1 w
For Hamburgh,
THK SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J 0 * 1 " t,n ' n S> Mitfler,
Having great partof her cargo.en
eae«d.—For freight apply to
JcJfe & Robert Wain.
February l 6
nTcklin isf Griffith,
At their Store on Wlimit Street Wharf—
H AVI FOR SAH,
j8 hhds. of Jamaica Ruin
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Tmeriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths »f chens
Sail Canvafa, No. i, to 8
Dimities, Gioghams, aad Mirflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Kails aiTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds.and crate#
Yellow ochre dry in cafcs ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expeiled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
.Ojalj
Spinifh Brown 1
; Venetian lied I
Purple Bro.wu i PAINTS
Patent White j
White Lead I
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
J 6n bundles Sheuhing paper
Seaming Twine
F° r Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nickliii k Co.
• f§ now changed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
for Sale or Charter,
GOODHOPE
W carry abo«t T joo barrels, and
>. 7 iiready totakein a cargo. For termt
, * l ' ly to o fr» r
Praters, is Co.
tin. iji» South Second-iirect.
Who ha« for sale —prime St Croix Sugtr
and Kum, Madera, Lifboo, and Teneriir= wins
November 7. dtt
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 27, 1798.
This Day will be Landed,
At whaif, just a! ove th i 'rawbridgf
f*om on board the Lrig Eliza, capt. Vaughan. i
from Vlalaga—
Frefti Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chellsand ha.f chests
Raisins of tht Sun in kegs
Fiy[* in do.
Soft (heird Almonds in sack«
Grapes and Oliver in jars
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins in boxes
Anchovies in kegß %
Jord in and tJ.trrr Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &.c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
p. s.
The above Brig for sale
immediately applied lor ; she
i>s a remarkable fine failing
CTA having made her paflagc
to and ftona Malaga in little more than 60 days
mi rh "A, *
ror oaie, or charter.
The rcmarlLablc fait failing
Sheathed with heft patent Copper,
having been a Packet of theE«giifliEall-lndia Co.»
p an y_Mow put in compleat ord. r. Sh:- is 2 b
ten s and capable of carrying t6 guns, now laying
at Mr Rofs's v.harf.—For terms apply to
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Stret.
WHO HAS FOR SA,^>
A cargo of Salt, a quantity ol Sail Canvass and
Gin in pipes #
march to I_—-— n
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and scuuvlkill
Canai, Company, Febru ry 17th, 179 8 . ,
RMvei, l'hat ten dollarson each fliare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreuable
to iaw.
Extraft from the Mirutet.
GCORGIi WOR*ALI , Secretary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th. l'reajrnt
and Managers of the Dclwri avd Scbuyltili Canal
Company* the Stockholders are heraby require,! to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpe&ive ihares on er before the ift ol pril neat,
to WM. GOVEI'T, Trrafurer.
FeKruarv aS. I<lwt *
Red Clover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA IVINK,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
i'enerifte Wine,
And, Window Glaf— all of which will be fold
on v«ry reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock Street.
march X w&stf
a HE term of Co-partnerthip between the ful>-
1 fcribers, trading under 11>*. firm of John MiJ
kr, jun.and Co. eipiresthis day, an !by mutual
consent w.iH not be renewed- l'be debts a'd con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnerlhip,,
are earnsftly refuelled t® make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February >: 9 s''
L AND ING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FO* SAL > BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
i£oo bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut Greet, ,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AM ON GS T WHICH ARE
Gurrahs M,;ntodie»
Baftas Sauna?
Guzzenas fMida Cofifaes
Guzzies ' Emertics
Blue Cleths Caliches
Palam; oors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nuf<w3ures of Patiia.
Britilh Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons df high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller sis James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfbip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
th y Lave opened a Whpkfile Dijy Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Philadelphia ; whert*
tlicy uow have, and intend kceeping a general af
foatnient of India, Germany Irijb y French and Sri
tijb Mannfa&uresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a (hort creait.
February 19 §tf
The Commiffioni rs
FOR carrying iDto sffedl tb- TWEK i Y-FIRST
Article oftheTreaty of Friendftnp, l.imiM.and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majflly andt,hc
United States of Am-rica, hereby giveinlormation
to all Persons therein concerneil—l fiat in ..rder
to terminate all differences, on account of thelolT
es fuftainedby the citizens of the United States, in
conlequence of their Veffcls nd Cargoes having
been taken by the SubjeAs of His Ca r holic Majel
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc.-,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and ooco'clock daily) all
complaints and applications authorized by th« said
Article, dur/'ng EIGHT ttN Months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine a'.lfuch persons as eras before them, on
01th or affirmation, touching the com laints in
qmrtion, and aKo to receive in evidence, all writ
ten tertim°ny, authenticated in such manner as
they (ball think proper to require or admit.
By OMeref tbi 6nw-»>,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
QommiJJiunm Qfirt, No. IOt), Multrrry
flrecty May 17tb, 1797*
Feb. iS, *9B—'im
* Tbtfe Printers in tls several States nbo pubtijb
cJ tbe above adveriifemtni lujl Sprhf, are requeued it
rr-fttf/jh it one month, and fend ticir j«:j urJt to I*. It.
By John Fen no, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street.
LANDING
From on board the Schooner R.iNGfR, from
fygflS'SMU 1
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 117 ChefnUl-llieCt.
Wha.hfr on hand 6, 00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, of'afupcrior quality.
March t? H6t
Just received,
FROM rORT-AU-F KIN CE,
A,J FOR SALE, by tb, SUBSCRIC.ERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
, 46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
no hogfheadsof Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of MolafFes
4 bale* of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march I». §
Landing from on board the ship
TennelTee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR S aLR by the Sucsc ribeu.s,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
4CO do. Platillas
icc do Creas
5.2 do. do. Ala Morlaix
jq& do. Dov/las
20 do. red striped h rabias
20 o, blue Guingas
100 dozen border* di Hardkcrchiefs
Eric & Lewis Bollmann,
23, South i bird ifcreet.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A oafe of printed Muslins and Calicoes
march 12. £Bt
Frefli i eas.
JuJ Imported, in the J,hip Delaware,
Captain Qooper, from Canton,
And For Sale,
SAMUEL HOWELL,
A,t his Cempting Houf , No. 54, Chefnut-Ortct,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfc, Crooken billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hylbn, Hyfo'n Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cafiia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell \yide Perfiarjs, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
march 8. §
To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
J®ne% from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC "JOf the vint-agesof I79cfend 1791,
LATOUR j in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
FOR SAL" BY
PHILIPS, CRAtyOND & Co.
march 7. §
" FOR SALE, ~
by THt subscribers, Nif. 11, Ponn-ffreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander',from Bengal,
Confuting of
Baftas, of various qualities pricey
Cofiaea Punjum Clot,hs
Sanahs Gu7Zeydo.
Humhums Charconna dqr.ea
Blue CI. th Tanjlbs
Chintz and Calicpcs Muftnuls
Mamoodys Cherjts
Mahai-agonges PaWia U,k,fs.
Ginghams Miilmu. iJo.
Guzzenas B.mJannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Chopjia Hqmajs
Salgatehys S»pt.y jo.
Gillie RorafU Perfian.s of v.aripvw col.
Mack Pulicats
100 tons SUGAR
910,i.X30 lb. PEPPJiR. '
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterr.s and bell colours.
February S. iltf
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bajs and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and B< Rgal j
300 calks RICE, rnd
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
Q6\ tt* j
Landing
From on b*trd the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
A few Tons R.uffia Clean Hpmp
300 pieces Havens Duck
250 pieces RnSCa Sheeting
200 bolts RulTia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale hy
JOSEPH ANTHONY H Cp.
IV ho have ou Hand, ■
iftand proof Bourdeaux Braody
4th proof Spanish iKtto
NewrEngland Rutn
London Particular } ;<!adfira Wine in »ipr.
, *l'} , ( in< J quarter Cafke.
London Market J
Old Claret in Cases
14 hlidj. CnfTee judarrived
J Brfl Belton Beet in barrels
Mackrcll in do.
Halifax Salmon in dew
A ftviall Invoice of Rhode-lljand Cfaeefe
Spermaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, 2, 3> Boston Sail Di-ik
Rufiia Co.rc'age, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass *Vare.
March I. daw
COPPER..
4,000 lbs. of Sheathing Copper,
and a small afiortm nt of OfrorgCdpper, in'fhtfets
and bottom#, Citable for llit-ls, brewing and other
pans from 200 to 2000 gallons, together with an
aHbrrnrent of Topper ware, £.nfi4ikig of Svill's
■ fiom >0 to .v o gallons, Hatter's plank and dva
K ttlcs, washing co. of copper and braCs. BA
Kettles, Tea do. i'tewpans, Saoceparis, ebpper<£a
bin Stoves, copper Pump* and liiwuacke Lamps,
and a vaw^ty/of articles —For S.«Je by,
JAMES' M'C AULEY,
At his Copper »Varehout«, lio 819, viuth Front
flreet march 26— * }t
N. B. Or, hand, a fccoßd.har : Sugar Han and
Dye O' pin:r. that will contain
and wiJ h% fold cheu^. _
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR "*ALE, of ilifffieht ilrei, «t a very large
tjjseount from the fteriirg coO. If/thl* Giafs is
not disposed of before tli* sth of April, it will be
{hipped from thisport.
For term-appiy to Mo. 89, South i'hird-llreet.
march 26. §iw
A PERSON who has had a li
berai education, and i'mafl,er ot the French
and Englifli woul(] <-'Bgage as a. lutor
in a genteel family where f!»ou!d. !»e one < r
tyo boys, prdv^ded < it is not ill t£is city. Ha
would hava no to travelling, a*»d is ca
pable of undertaking the fup-rintendaoce of a
farm. A note dinged to Z. at t!:is tfffice will,
be attended to.
N. 81.B 1 . Wages is no objed),—:genteel and friendjy
treatment is the only tni'.:g looked for.
march 26. *3t
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS y MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the 11 th February last,
all persons having demands againfi the f.iid
•Partncrftyipj'arercquelted to furni n *heir accounts
for fftelcment ; arr<l those ro the fame, to
make immediate payment to the suSs rib- r
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The bufinels will be carrifed cn as hereto
fore, by the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
ket flreet. iw march 24.
NOTICE.
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States ol the following
description, viz —No. 10033, 10034, and 10035,
for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May, 1797, and
ftan»ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near vbtrgavenney in England,
Esq. have been loft by the capture oi the ship IJac
chus, from hence tp London,in June lafti—This,
therefore Hottfies those whom it may concern, that
application will be mad at the Treasury of the U
nitedStatesfor a renewal of the fame
Waddington iff Harwood.
march 11 s6w
Twenty Dollars Reward.
Store occupied on account of United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-street
was on the night of the 19th instant (March) bro
ken opeß, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom ;
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2 374 *° a yds- jji ue ft r oud single
2 V* 20 i cord.
?379 20
2380 zoi
2381 20i
2382 20 ( Two cord.
23 8 ? . 20 i
2384 20
23.85 20. i
Tie above reward is oScred, fpr the difcoyery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, fa that they
be apjircneniled, and made amenable to juilice ;
further jewaiff wilt be paid, for tie recovery of
any part of the goods flolen, on delivery of tke
fame to
JOHN HARRIS '
Keeper Military Stores.
_qiarch 2.1. iw
Ffcapes.
T)ROKE the Prison of Cumherjand county, in
pL) New-Jersey, nn'd made iheir escape, berween
1 and 2 o'clock, rhis mornin , two Men, who
conviiled of ftealitfg—one of th *m calls him
felf James l.egtr, tbe other Edward f*ambleton—
Legg is a gn y-heaied Man. about CO years old, 5
(est 8 inches high thick set, with a'remarkable
large brad ; Hambleton is about *6 years old, 5
(eet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prifpn in company wirh the ab ve described
thieves, a map, who calls; himf;lf Matthew
Morjifon, about 24 old, 5 lect6 inches high*,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles when ta'king is
a wheel-wright hy trade Whoever will secure
tiie thieves in any in or Pennfyl-.
vania, Oiall eptjtjed to receive Ten Doljars for
the old one, Fifteen for young one, and Twen-,
ty for Ma*tl\ew Morrijfop
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
BridyFto- n, mrrch IJ. 24 —mtSif^w
For Sale,
By Elliston & John Perot,
J\~<> 4T, Kortb IV ater Street, *
London particnlar Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quarter calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Codes
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canrats? No. 1, to 0
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, aad
A few boxes of China,
march 3 ' tu&f4W
Prison Manufactory.
FO R SALE,
At the Prison of the City andt)ounty of Philadcl*
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3«y to 2ody
flooring Brads, Spriggs, fadule ana card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers aful Sailers "I'hrcad
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and heaii Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window liea4*, liils, c .
All which may he had on rcafonihle terms,
sho'is m?de and Weaving done at laid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dirtance, Jjre&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the puiion, will be atteudud to.
Dccejnher 26. intli6m
Hyion and Young Hyloti Tea.
A few e" ells of excellent nualiry, for falc, ear
ner oi Second and Pine (Ireetx Dec 26—-otf
l Molaffcs at Audion.
On WtnVFSD W ; I X . the aßih injf. at ti o*
clo.kjr..tlii' nvrnirg 6' WiU'Wharf* f
U(ill'-Iff fold iy Pvltie A{ici\ 'wn % ;
FOK C A>H)
Forty liogfheatis of Molafles,
a cood Quality.
Footman & Co- Auflioneeri,
march 2 ; ' ■
On Fuelday, the ioth day of
the City Tavern, Second Street, in ttoe C*ity
of Philadelphia,
WILL lie exposed to public fa!e, f>venre.;ri
trash or pa rue Is of land fitiut<d if Point
township in the roahty of Northumberland, and
contairtirir in tfte whole fix thoufcrid frven huri.
J ed and fixty-'four acres and three quarfefi,'
with the iifnal allowance for roads.
Terms of Kit, ir- !. of the purchale money on
the execution of the deed, i»» in threerionthki
ijnd r j in fix month*, in good notes br 1 qtber
approved fccaritv
CONNELLY 1$ Co. Audi.
Mjrc'6 ft. 1 111 ('!}• a
■AT LA,S T.
Thts Day is Publifheti, by William
i Cob b Vt,
oprosiTE cfl*'.iV ; rHO*.e'H,
7be 'Judge,
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS,
As exhibited, explained and efcpafed-, in ttye
profecutiun of'
WILLI M COBBETT,
FOR A l«Elnp(D I.IBIL AC A ■ N S r
The King of Spain end h\t Embejfador, lefort
IHO vi « . -Kh
Chief Jpfiice of the it *te»f tVnn'ylvania,
By Peter Porcupine,
THE informs thof^
to whom 111 is jndebtetj, that a potion w,jU
attend every olay, Sundays ■ xceited, until ihe
of April n> xt, from the hou's of 10 o'clofk intho
morning till 3 o'clock in th« afternoon, at thehogfa'
formerly eccupied by him i» Chefrint-IVreet, f t ,f
the putpo e of flawing all books, papers and |eji
ters regarding his pall commercial tra."fa,sio:B to
ftich of his creditor' as may think p-'oper to 'attend
and examine them
JAMES GREENLEAF,
march r. rotiA
To be Let,
A three story brick H use,
With Sfj' les. and a Garden containing- nearly enfl
acre of choice ground, fcveril Summer Hrufes
Fruit 7 rece, ice. on Race, and second flreet frorrj
Schuylkill ; the whole in good condition, and th'-i
situation high, airy and excellent lor a place of
public en'ertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and no deep,
ii alf» to let.
For te-ma apply to the fubferiber, at No, 19,
Pine street
Wm. CURRIE.
march 11. W6t f
Ran away from the fubferiber^
on the 14th inft. two indented lri(b .Servant Men i
Thomas Vl'Guire, about 25 year* of.age and,}
feet 8 inches high, rolmfl, (lout, and well made,
(hort black hair, remarkable for a fearononoof
his temples ; lie is a forward, dec itful, vicious,
and unprincipled fallow, and decoyed fr m my
service Jeffrv Corhtt, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder ■]ifpofltion, a'd mar- fl?n»
dtT make, fiiort brown hair ; thtir working appa»
relwas blue cloth over jickcti, lined with coarfq
brown linen, check end brown liren ihirtv, tr. y
yarn (lockings, mixed twilled grey doth trow f.-rs,
an.; ruffett leather shoes; they h.iye oth rcloa-hiag
wh ; ch a.together giv»> them appearance of fea-.
faring men, ';ut have been brought up to the 'arm,
ing butinefs ; no doubt will have forged passe- .and
change their names and apparel as cohv, nieht, ani
have taken the poll road to I'h laprlphia, I | nr
chaf.d them the lab fall of capt. rt»llin>, in Balti
more. 1 will give Fifty Dollars lor fecuririg thent
ft) that 1 get them, and will pay all reaforable
charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
,U«l|ars forTfcomas, a id Twenty f-r I fFry.
ARTHUR IiRYAN,
Head of Wye, lalbOt March 7.
march 14. ■ 3aw3w
Law Hook Store,
No. 3J9, High-Trcet.
George Davis,
IMPRF.SSEH with the f'rors (hewn him in his
efforts to establish a Store for the sale of Law
Bonks only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the .United States,
that in addition to his colleifion now on hand,
v. hich he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the pofftttan of any one person for' file in A maris
ca, he expetfs daily very large supplies (roni Lon
don & Dublin, particularly lrom th« lattei place,
havingebitfly confined his importation! to those edi
tions, at being in his opinion equally correal with
the London opie.s, and well known to beinfinitc-i
Jy lower charged.
Q- D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of I.aw
Bosk«, it will appear obvioui to proffflianal gen
tlemen the great advantages they havein purchjfin®
from him, betb as to feleilion and price, of which
the encouragement l e has received for several year*
pall, is the bed testimony he can offer.
n arch 20. jaw 3w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Bock Store,
No. ,t J, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the Houfe«f
Reprefentativesof the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
ngainft WILLIAM BLOUN I", a Senator if the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis.
demeanors, made in |*urfuance of a relolutiop of
the Houfuof Representatives. jiit'hotjring the fald
Committee to fit during the rec-fs ps C'ongrefs, and
inftruaing thim " to enquire, and, fy all lawfnl
" means, todifcover thwhole nature and cxt nt
" of the offence whereof the (aid William Blount
" stands imprache.:, and who arc the »aitie«and
" affociatestherein."
Printed by order of the Hcvfe ofßeprefentativet
Decemhrr 10
l'"or Sale by the Subscriber, *
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re.
mains of the (hip India's lall cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 17.9 J.
Mor deciii Lewis.
February 19
[Volume XIII.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
DEBATE ON SLAFERY.
Friday, March 23.
The house being in a committee of the whole
on the bill tor the amicable fettlesient of li
mit* with the Hate of Georgia, and for provi
ding a temporary Government in the Miflif
fippi Territory :
X :• R. 1 HATCHER rose, and said he
IVi Ihould make a motion touching the
rights of mam, by moving to (trike out the ex
cepting clause in the 3d seCtion of the bill—
[lt appears that in the ordinance eftablilhing
a government in the North-western Territory,
Slavery is expressly forbidden, and this secti
on of the bill directs that a government similar
in all refpefts to that eltabliflied in the North
weltern Territory shall be established in the
MiffiWippi Territory, except\hz.l Slavery (hall
not be forbidden.]
Mr. Harpfk did not believe his friend's
mo/ioo would be a proper mode of supporting
the 1 ghts of man. In the North-western Ter
ritory the regulation forbidding Slavery was
a vtry proper one, as the people inhabiting
par of theto..mry were from parts where
Slavery did not prevail, and they had of course
nd II.W:-ainonglt them » but in the Mifliflip
pi Territory it would be very improper to
make such a regulation, as that species of pro
perty already exists, and persons emigrating
there froni the fouihet 11 States, would carry
with them property of this kind. To agree
to such a. proportion would, therefore, be a
decree of '•art'Jbmcnt to all the persons fettled
there, and ot exclufunX.oall those intending to
go there. He believed it could not, there
fore, b<* carried into effect, as it struck at the
habits and cuitoms qfihe people.
V?r. Varnum did not know that the gen
tle.nan fiom !>. Carolina wilhed to promote the
rightsutmaii: itions (hewed, at lcall,
that he did not fvifh to Support the rights of
ail itien ; for where there was a disposition to
retain a. part ot our species in Slavery, there
< <nld not be a proper refpeet for the rights
of mankind. It was true that this kind of pro
■perry is held in the southern States—because
they cannot, confident with the fafety of the
people of those States, liberate them, on ac
count of their very great,numbers. But they
cpnfidered it as a great burden to-be obliged
t) hold them. He hoped, therefore, Congress
would have so much respeCt for the rights of
humanity, as not to legalize theexiftence of
Slavery, any farther than it at present exists.
He believed the gentleman from S. Carolina
was miiirfken, in faying that such a regulation
would oblige all the inhabitants fettled in this
t rritory to .".move. The provision need only
cx -end'tw she forbidding ct slaves being taken
.—What, said he, is the litnation ot the
North-western Territory at this time ? Land
tlier.- is worth r?)ore than in some of the old
fettled' States ; "and he believed th'rshigh price
of laud, and profperotis condition of the coun
try, was entirely owing to ".he absence of Sla
very. . A'.vl if the southern States could get
clear of their slaves, the price of their land
would in) rcd ately'deubie. At any rate, he
honied the United States would prevent an in?
crjiie or rliia calamity ; for he looked upon
the , nu . ee of holding Blacks in Slavery, in
thib'rountry, to be equally criminal with that
of tl.e Algerines carry.ng our citizens into
Slavery.
Mi . Rutledge w'.fhed the gentleman from
Maifacliufetts would withdraw his motion,
not frotiv apyapprehenflon he had that it would
obtain ; but he hoped he would not indulge
himfett ,ind in uttering philippics a
gairtfta piaCll'cc with which his and the rplii
lofojvliy is at war. He submitted to the gen
tleman's candour whether it was proper, on
every occalion, to do this—to bring forward
the southern States ,"111 an odious, light, or to
give his neighbour and colleague an opportu
nity of bringing thefu forward, and comparing
them with Algerines! He thought propriety
and decency toward otljer members required
that such language (hould be checked. He
believed, if his friend from MaflTachufetts had
recollected, that the mod angry debate which
had taken place during this feflion was occasi
oned by a motion 011 this fubjett, he would
not have brought forward the present questi
on. One gentleman fays, you call these men
property j .mother, you hold these men in
chains ; a third, you violate the rights oj man !
And :re not these men property r Do not the
people in this territory hold them as such ?
Did they not hold them under the Spanish
government f And must we thus address these
people t "We have madea treaty which puts
you under the mild government of the United
States; but niuli take from you your pro
perty : or rather, we must set your blacks at
liberty to out your throats. The rights of man
was the waWth-word of the day, and Congress
have determined that you ftiall not poffefsthis
property. They cannot, as yet, do Slavery
away altogether—the day is not yet arrived j
but tliev have determined it (hull not exist in
the Mrltilfip pi Territory."
These, said Mr. R. are not mere specula
tive opinions. They lead to more mitchief
than gentlemen are aware of; and he trulted ;
if the gentleman from Madachufetts could be
convinced that the difcullionof such questions !
as the present did much mifchief in certain I
parts of the Union, he would not bring them
forward. He hoped he would withdraw the
present motion.
Mr. Gordon thought, when the gentle
man from Maifacliufetts recolleCted, that by
the Cfiatilifhment of this government, the
United Siates do not cltablilh their cxclufivc
right to this territory, he would consent to
withdraw his amendment, as that went to fay
that we had the absolute right ofjurifdiftion,
and were determined to exercise it; and in
making a difference betwixt the ground on
which property was held there from that on
which it was held in Georgia, they would mi
litate against the sth fettion of tlie bill.
Mr. Oti s hoped his colleague would not
withdraw his motion ; and the reason why he
wished this was, that an opportunity might be
given to gentlemen who came from the fame
part of the Union with him, to manifeft that
it is not their disposition to interfere with the
southern States, as to the species of property
in question. With respeCt to the exiltence of
Slavery, the House had often heard gentle
men, who are owners of (laves, declare that it
is not tneir fortune, but their misfortune that
they.pofTels them, but who Hill keep them,
and claim the right of managing them as thfy
think proper. He thought it w-as not the bu
fmefs of those who had nothing to do with
that of property to interfere with that
light; and he really wished that gentlemen
v.Tiolield slaves might not be deprived of the
means of keeping them in order.
ff the amendment prevailed, it would de
rlrtre that no Slavery should fxilt in tjie Nat
chez country. This would not only be a sen
t/nee of banidimer.t, but of war. An inv.ne
il .i'e infurrertion would probably take places
md the inhabitant* would not be fitffered to
itt re i:> peace, but be massacred x>u the spot.
By permitting Slavery in this dirtrlft of cdun.
tty, the number or (laves would
creased—as if emigrants troin Sout', Carolina
or Georgia were to remove thl ' s cullMry
| hey would take their i.-vesw,,!, them ; and
he could lee
l,ie ' Pb'unthropy or his friend. The North
we i crritory is inhabited by a description
of persons who have ngt been accustomed to
hold Haves, and therefore the reftrittion is a
greeable to them ; but the territory in question
vyill be fettled by people froin the font hern
States, who cannot cultivate the ground with
out slaves. He hoped, however, the motion
would be p'ertifted in, and negated by a large
majority.
Mr. D. Foster hoped, if the motion was
not withdrawn, that a long debate might not
be had upon it. *
Mr. 1 hatcher falu he should not with
draw his motion, and the more it wasoppofed,
believing his cause to be good, the more ob>-
flinate he should be in its fujjpor'.
Mr. Giles wished to fuggeit a idea.
The prefient motion was brought forward from
the avowed motive of furthering tiie rights of
man. He did notknow whetherthe tendency
ot it was calculated t6 ameliorate the condi
tion of the class of ni«n alluded to ; he be
lieved not. On the contrary, it was his opi
nion, that if the Haves in the southern dates
were permitted to go into tiiis western coun
try, by lelfening the number in those (tales,
and spreading, them over a large fuiface of
-ountry, there would be a greater probability
of ameliorating their condition, which could
never be done whillt they were crouded toge
ther as they now are in the southern. fUtqs.
Mr. Hartlev said, he hail bimfelf in
tended to have brought forward an amend
ment similar to the present; but on enquiry,
he found so many difficulties in the way, that
hewasobliged to abandon it. He found it
would interfere with, and be a feriotis attack
upon the property of that countty. He was
sorry it was not in the power of Congress to
gratify the wishes of philanthropies in this
respeCt, by doing away (lave'ry altogether ;
but this could not be done at pre(Vnt, and as
he believed the present amendment, ifcarried,
, would be attended \vith bad effects, he (hould
vote againll it.
Mr. Ga li. a tin. If he saw any of the
great inconveniences which were foretold as
likely to ante from thisauiendment, he should
certainly vote againfl it. He (hould be extreme
ly averse to the adoption ot any principle,
which (hould either directly or indirectly,lead
to the production of any commotion or insur
gency in any (fate where there is a great num
ber of (laves. He did not fee f#vv any such
effeCt could be produced by the present mo
tion ; for, notwithdanding what had fallen
from the gentleman from S. Carolina, it did
not appear to him how a regulation with re
speCt to another territory, can affect the peace,
tranquility, or properly of any other (late.
How the forbidding of slavery in the Miflifip
pi territory, could produce a worse effeCt than
the fame regulation in the north-vve(tern ter
ritory, or in Pennsylvania, or in several other
Itates ! 1 lie amendment therefore, could not
be oppofedon that ground ; it inu(t be upon
(omeother. Ought it to be rejected on the
ground of jurisdiction f Certainly not. The
United States intend to exercise jurisdiCtion
over that territory, and was there any more
reason for excepting this jurisdiction than any
other ? Ifweeftablidi this government, w6
exp?Cf it to be permanent; and if we believe
it is not conducive to the happiness-os any
people, but the contrary, to legalize slavery,
when we are about to form a con(titution for a
territory, its efiablifhnient ought to be pre
vented. But, if this amendment is rejected,
we edablifh (lavery so the country, not only
d rringits temporary government, but for all
the time it isa (late j for, by the condanf ad
midionot (laves, the number will inpreafe to
a certain degree, and when the territory (hall
beiome a (late, the Interest of the holders will
be fuch,as to procure a conditutiontf hich shall
admit of (lavery, and it will be thereby made
j permanent. Having determined (lavery was
bad policy for the north-wedern territory, he
saw no reason fur a contrary determination
with respect rothi6 territory.
1 here was, then, only one folitafy objection
to the amendment, and that might easily be
obviated. It was with respeCt-to the fitua
•ion of people already fettled there who are
polleffed of llaves. It would be extremely
impolitic and unjust to declare by ordinance
that the people fettled there, either under the
British, Spanidi, or Georgia governments,
(hould be deprived of this kind of propeity ;
and if this w'as the effect of the amendment,
he would vote against it. Such a regulation
would be attended with the word of conse
quences ; but other words may be ea(ily in
troduced to guarantee the property of the per
sons already fettled there.
By the laws of the different (fates, Mr. G.
said, the importation of (laves is forbidden ;
but if this amehdment does not obtain, he
knew not how (laves could be prevented from
being introduced by way of New Orleans, by
persons who are not citizens of the United
States. He hoped, therefore, the amendment
would be agreed to.
Mr. NicHo las believed it not only to be
the interest of the southern states, but of the
United Stages, that this motion (hould be re
jected. They were to legidate for the whole
of the union, and ought to consult the happi
ness of the whole. It was not for them to at
tempt to make a particular spot of country
more happy than all the relt. I fit was a mif
fortune to the southern (fates to be over
whelmed with this kind of property, he asked
if it would not be doing service, not only to
them, but to the whole union, to open this
western country, and by that means spread
the blacks over a large (pace, so that in time,
it might be fafe to carry into effect the plan
which certain philanthropies have so much at
heart, and to which he had no objection, if it.
could be effected, viz. the emancipation of
this class of men. And when this country
shall have become fufficiently populous to be
come a (late, and the legislature wishes todif
countenance (lavery, the increase of slaves
may be prevented, and such means taken to
get rid of slavery altogether, perhaps in con
junction with other parts of the United States,
who by that time may be in such a (ituation
as to admit ot it, as (hall appear prudent and
proper.
Mr. 'I hatcher was of opinion dire&ly
opposite to the gentleman jult fat down. In
deed they feldoiu did agree in fentinient : to
day they differed very widely. He believed
the true interest and happiness of the United
States would be promoted by agreeing to this
amendment; becatife its tendency was to pre
vent the increase of an evil winch was acknow
ledged by the very gentlemen themselves w{jo
are owners ot (laves. Indeed the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) had fiequent
ly declared in that House, that llavery was an
e*»i of great magnitude. In this respeCt they
agreed in opinion ; for he conlitlered the ex
lltence of (lavery in the United States, as the
greatest ot evils-*-aa evil in direct hoflility to
the principles of our government; and he be
lieved the government had-a Tight to take all
due meat ares to (tini.iiifli and deftray the evil,
although, in doing it, they might injure the
property of Ibme individuals , for he never
could be brought to believe that anindividuat.
tail have a riglrt in any thing which goes to
| to the dedruition of our goVefmnent, viz.
' that lie cap have a right in a 'wrong. A pro
perty in (laves is iottnded inierong, an<J n<;ver
can be right. He believed governmeht mutt
of .neceflity put a ilop to this evil, and the
looner tliiy entered upon Ihe business, the
better.
Mr. T. said, he honedly confelTed, he did
not like to hear much said in that House a
bout the rights of man ; because, of late,there
had been much quackery as to these rights.
But because these rights have been abused, it
did not follow that man has no rights. Where
j legislators are freely cholen by the people,
, and frequently renewed; where a law cannot
| be palled without alf.iting the intereds of the
! perfonswho pass it, these righticannot great
j ly be abused ; but, when we take iiiwn us to
legillare for men against their will, iris pro
per enough n> fay lonvething about the rights
of ni«n, and to remind others, who are fre
quently h<-.ird speaking of these rights, that by
nature these enslaved men arc entitled to
rights ; and on that account it was, whir) he
; made this motion, that he said he would make
; a motion touching the rights of man.
I '1 he ivafbnsoffered against the amendment
: by the gentleman from Virginia, were a little
; lingular. He contended that certain Hates
were overflowing with slaves, and if not colo
nized, by opening this wide traClof country to
them, they would not be able to keep or ma
j nage them. He himfelf always tho'ught that
colonizing these people tended loincreafe the
race, far beyond what it would be when pen
ned closely together.
Mr. Giles explained, by faying, that he
had said nothing about decreasing the number
of blacks, but of fpreadmgthem over a larger
furface of country,
j Mi. T. said, lie understood the gentleman's
_ argument perfectly, thoirgh he d.d not seem
'to understand it himfelf. The gentlemen
, wished to take the blacks away from places
where they are huddled up together, and
spread them over this territory ; they wished
to get rid of them, and to plague others with
them. But they had them, and if they de
termined to keep them, he wished only they
should be plagued with them.
We are, said Mr. T. about to e.lablifh a
government for a new country. Ours orig'iA
nated from, and was founded on the rights o]
mail, upon which ground we mean to protest
it, and could there be any propriety in ema
nating a government from ours, in which sla
very is not only tolerated, but fanidioned by
law ( Certainly not.
It was tifed as an argument against this a
mendment, that this territory would be peo
pled by emigrants from the southern dates,
who cannot work for themselves ; • and on
that account thay rnuft ha'<e slaves to work
for them. If this be true, it makes the peo
ple of the southern Hates only fit to fuper
initttdjlaitcs. The language of this is, that
these people cannoifubjtjf, except they have
slaves to work for them.
For the reasons he had dated, he hoped the
amendment would be agreed to ; but if gen
tlemen thought those who at present hold
slaves in the territory should be protetfed in
them, he should not be opposed to their hold
ing them for a limited period.
The quefiion was put and negatived, there
being only 12 votes in its favour.
Monday, March 26.
The Speaker laid before the house a com
munication from the General PoftOflice, con
taining a statement of the compcnfations al
lowed to deputy post ma'der. for the year palt,
which was referred to the committee on pofi
offices and post roads.
He also laid before the house a communi
cation from the Treasury Department, inclo
sing an account of the receipts and expendi
tures of the United States for the year 1796,
five hundred copies of which the communica
tion stated would be deposited with the Clerk
of the house.—Ordered to lie 011 the table,
Mr. Baer presented the petition of Law
rence Averhard, a sergeant in the horse, during
the war, praying for compensation ;
Mr. Gordon also prefented'the petition
of Preserved Clapp, for compensation for ser
vices, during the war ;
Both of which were referred to the com
mittee of claims.
Mr. Brooks presented the Memorial of
the New York Chamber of Commerce, da
ting that the present critical and inauspicious
date of this country had excited geaeral con
cern, which concern had been much incre lfcd
by the late official communication from the>
President of the United States; that this date
of things called for the belt measures of de
fence which could be taken ; that the pre
sent defencelefs date of the harbour of New
York is such as to invite hoflility, and that a
place of such confequencc to the Union ought
to tie put into a strong poiture of defence;
they, therefore, pray that their fortifications
may be completed, and furnifhed wi-th artil
lery and military dores.—Referred to the
committee for the protection of commerce
and defence of the country.
Mr. Kittera presented a petition from
inhabitants of the county of Huntingdon, in
this date, dating, that they viewed with con
cern a flefect in the lawsof the United States,
which fuftered persons employed by the Uni
ted States, after they were discharged from
office, to publidi with impunity the secrets of
Government, and praying that measures may
be adopted to prevent this evil in future.—
Referred to a (elect committee of three mem
bers. This reference was carried 39 to 37.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of'
claims, to whom was referred a motion to en
quire whether any, and if any, what altera
tions are necefTary in the aits for the relief of
Invalid Pensioners, made a report on the fub
jeft, containing a variety of reasons to (hew,
that 011 the ground of judice and policy, it is
not expedient to any alterations in the
eliding laws on that subject. The report was
committed.
Mr. Sewali., from the committee on com
merce and protection, to whom was referred
he message of the President of the United
States relative to the depredations committed
upon a velfel in the harbour of Charledon,
reported that there could be no doubt of the
fails being as dated, and that it was another
indance to prove the neceflity of taking mea
sures for the protect/on of our coad. They,
therefore, report a resolution authorizing the
President to build and equip , eallies, or
floatipg batteries, for that purpole ; which
was referred to the committee of the whole on
the date of the Union.
The House again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee ot the whole on the bill for an amica
ble settlement of limits with the State of Geor
gia j when, after drikingout the words claim
ing under it, in the «tn section, and adding
two new fictions, the committee rose, the
Houfa concurred in the amendment.', and the
bill was ordered to be read a third time to
morrow.
One of the (eCtions was moved by Mr.
Milledlfe, and was in the following words :
" Thaufrom and after the cfiablifhinent of the
morrow
said govrtnment, the people of the aforefaid terri
tory, shall be entitled to, and enjoy, all and lingu
lar the rights, privileges, and advantages granted
to the people ef the territory of the United States,
north weft of the-river Ohio, in and by the afore
faid ordinance of the 13th day of July. the )' ear
1787, in as-full and ample manlier as the fame are
pofiefled and enjoyed by the people of the said last
mentioned territory."
The other, moved by Mr. Harper, was to
the following ed'eCt :
" That from and after the establishment of the
as refaid govrnement, it shall not be lawful for any
person to import, or bring into the said territory,
I from any part or place without the limits of the
, United States, any slave or slaves, on pain of for
-1 feiting 3CO dollars for every slave so brougut, one
helf to ihe United States, and the other half to the
person who lhall sue for the fame, and every slave
so imported shall be entitled to and receive his or her
freedom."
When this seCtion was proposed, Mr.
Thatcher moved to llr.ke out the words
'without the limits of the United S/ates, so as to
have mace it unlawful to have brought any
Have there, but the motion was not seconded.
Mr. Sewali. wilbed the House to go into a
committee of the whole 011 the bill from ihe
Senate to authorize the Preiident topurchale
one or more toimdenes. It was well known
the United' States w'cnf very deficient 111 can
non, which could not be got, he bel.eved in
abetter way than by giving the Piefident ihe
power proposed.
Mr. Harper wilhed the gentleman from
Malfachufeits to futfer his motion to give
way to one which he pro'pofed to make for
going into a committee of the whole 011 the
report of the committee of ways and .means,
relative to the appropriations for the military
edablilhment, as there was .at present a num
ber of officers in the city waiting tor their
pay, w' ich they could not receive, until the
appropriations were made, as the 100,000 dol
lars which were appropriated 011 account,
had been already expended.
Mr. hoped the House would go in
to a committee of the whole on the date of
the union generally. The House had re
ceived a melfage from the President a week
aga of a very alarming nature, which he tho't
it was time to notice. He was himfelf ex
tremely anxious to know what it was the ob
jeCt of gentlemen to do in this business.
Mr. Gallatin said, if there was au im
mediate occalion for making appropriations
for the military edablifhment, lie should not
oppose the motion of the gentleman from S.
Carolina; but on the firft of January there
was a very conliderable balance unexpended,
and therefore he believed it was not necefTary
to take up this subject at present.
Mr. Sewall thought, that if there was 110
balance in hand, their could bc'no difficulty
in paying the officers, in confidence that an
appropriation would be made. It was imme
diately neceflary to attend the subjeCt of pro
curing cannon, as the frigates could not go to
sea until they were got. He did not know
that they could immediately be furnifhed by
the means proposed, but he fuppofedit would
be necefTary to adopt such a measure in order
to feccure,not only the present but future sup
plies. As to going into a committee of the
whole on the date of the union, he did not
know that there was any immediate necedity
for that. He did not know that it was in
tendec(,to take up any particular fubjeCl which
had been referred 10 that committee. He
hoped they should fird take up one proposi
tion, and then another, until the whole were
agreed to ; but he thought it firft proper to
takp up the bill from the Senate, which was
referred to a separate committee.
Mr. T. Claiborne said, if a number of
officers were waiting in the city for their pay,
he hoped the business of appropriation would
begone into, as to keep them 111 the city on
expences was to diminifli their pay. As to
the Founderies,he thought it was time enough
to take up that subject ; he himfelf should be
decidedly opposed to the measure.
Mr. Bald win underdood that a motion to
go into a committee of the whole on the date
of the Union had preference of every other.
The Speaxer said it had ; but he did not
hear the motion seconded.
Mr. B. laid he seconded the motion. He
thought the houl'e had aited very properly on
this occalion. He was pleased that they did
not, immediately upon receiving the Presi
dent's meli'age, hurry into the subject, but
that they had taken time to refleft upon it.
He was sure, however nothing that he could
fay could fiiew, more forcibly than the meC
fage itfelf, its importance to the intereds and
happinefsof the United States. He thought it
was now desirable to go into the bulinefs as
calmly as poflible, ar.d begin to exchange
their sentiments upon it. It is a subject 011
which the citizens of the United States are at
this time deeply engaged, but tbey justly look
up to their Repreleniatives as having the
bed information on the subject, to learn what
is to be the ilTue of their deliberations. He
wiflied their anxiety to be in some measure
relieved by an entrance being made upon the
discussion. He confelTed he had never witnelT
ed a period which called so loudly for atten
tion, as the present. He could not remove
the fubjeCl from his mind; he not only
thought ot it when in that house; but when
he lay on his bed, his thoughts were (till en
gaged upon it. Indeed, no man who had the
good of his country at heart; could help being
deedlyad'eCled bytheprefentfituationoltliings.
He hoped, therefore, the house would resolve
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the
date of the Union.
Mr. Otis. It was well known that he had
been uniformly of opinion, that the House
ought, from day to day, to go into a commit
tee of the whole on the date of the Union, and
he was gratified in hearing the fame sentiments
from others. He thought the fubjeCl ought
not to be delayed. The motion was, howe
ver, unexpected from the gentleman who
brought-it forward. He could not fay that
he was prepared to go into the subject to-day.
As there feeraed, however, a greatdefire, from
what had fallen from the gentleman from Geo
rgia (every sentiment of which he concurred in)
to go into this business, he should be willing
to-morrow to enter upon it, when he hoped
they should go into it with one heart and one
consent. As the appropriations for the mili
tary department were pretty much a matter of
course, he hoped that bulinefs would be got
through to-day. With refpeCl to the motion
of his colleague (Mr. Sewall) to go into the
fubjett which he proposes, Would be in fub
dance to go into a committee of rhe whole on
the date of the Union, as it is intimately con
nected with subjeCts referred to that commit- '
tee.
Mr. Harper trusted the gentleman from
Georgia would give him credit, when he as
sured the house he had as great a desire ro go
into a committee of the whole on the date of
the union, as that gentleman, or any other;
but whilst he felt this desire, he also knew that
it was necefTary to pass the annual and usual
appropriations tor the military establishment.
As to the surplus which the gentleman troin
Pennsylvania had mentioned a.i unexpended
ort the fird of January, that had been paid for '
theferviccj ot 1797. He hoped, therefore, '
the motion forgoing into a committee of t|it :
whole on the (fate of.the union would be
withdrawn, until, this .business was gone
1 through ; afterwards, he fliould be one of the
. lad persons to objeft to it. Indeed, he re
joiced to find that gentlemen now felt that
anxiety on account of the of this
country, which every good citizen could not
help feeling.
Mr. J. Parker hoped the military appro
priations ' ouid be proceeded with, otherwise
it would be impofiible to comply with that law
which fays tli£ pay of the army (hall jievcr be
two months in arrears. Nobody would be more
aeady than he to go into a committee of the
whole on the (late of the union ; he hoped
the house might do this to-morrciw.
Mr. Macon concurred inopiuion with the
gentleman jurt fat down.
Mr. Giles had no particular objection to
the. bufiaefsjying over till to-morrow. Eut
nhffl the Pre/ident sent his inefTage, it was to
be ixpected some notice would be takenof it.
Prom the bell judgment he could give it, it
involved the queliion of peace c/vvar to this
country ; and he thought gentlemen mult be
prepared to fay which of the two Hates they
wilhed. With respect to the congratulations
of gentlemen that others seemed no» sensible
of the perilous (ituation of our country. He
confell'eJ his fears had long been awakened in
this respect ; all he believed were imprelTed
iwi'.h the critical situation in which we itand,
but there is a difference of opinion as to the
means of extricating oiirfelves. He had al
ways been in favour of every nece.lary mea
sure' for the defence of the country ; butop
pofed to all extravagant meafut'es. He ffiould
(till act in the fame way.
The other motions bring withdrawn, the
house resolved iJfelt into a'couuuittee df the
whole un the report of the Committee of
Ways and Means on the appropriations necef,
fary for the Military filUblifhuient, for the
present year ; when the blanks were filled
with the funis ediinated to be nece'lary by the
Secretary of War, until the article of subsis
tence came under consideration ; when
Mr. Gallatin moved to ftrke, out 25
cents per ration, for the purpose of inserting
20 cents, which was the price charged Ijtft
year, and provisions were rather fallen than
risen in price. Indeed, it was observable,
that the rations had every year beeu advanced
a few cents; in 1795, they were charged only
15 cents, lad year 20 cents, and now 25.
Mr. Harper, believed ra'* is might begot
at 20 cents ; but it was nect ,ry for the con
tractors to deposit fix months provisions in ad
vance in the different polls, which occasioned
a considerable expcnce ; ans besides this, it
was cudomary for friendly Indians to visit all
the pods,and whenever they did so, it was ne
cefTary to entertain them. He supposed the
additional ive cents were to make up for these
two eircumftances. It would remain with
the committee whether they wonld allow the:
additional five cents, or hereafter make good
deficiencies, as they found it ncceflarv to do
for la ft year.
Mr. Gallatin said, that there would be
no need to take into account the lix months
advance of provisions, as that was included
in the deficiencies which were now to be pro
vided for; and if a greater number of rati
ons was wanted, it fliould be so ex prefl'ed, and
not add co the price of the rations. And if
rations were to be provided for the Indians,
they ought to be put under a diltinft head,
j and not under the head of subsidence for the
officers of the army. In 1797, indeed, there
w as under the head of the Indian Department,
100,000 rations at 20 cents, which was the
j proper way of placing the business. If rati
-1 ohs could be got at 20 cents, and they were
charged 25, the overplus-would not go to t,he
purposes which had been mentioned ; but the
officers, who received money, instead of rati
ons, would receive 25 cents, inflead of 20.
Mr. Harper consented to the price being
fixed at 20 cents, and after a few observations
from Mr. J. Williams in favour of 20
cents, and of having the allowance for the
Indians mentioned separately, the motion was
put and carried.
It was proposed to appropriate 3,ooodollars
for three additional temporary agents, to trade
with thelndians.
Mr. Gallatin moved to ftrilte out this
article He thought there was as many agents
already aswete ufeful; besides the law confined
the expence in this respeCt to 15,000 dollars,
so that if these additional agents were to be pro
vided, itnwd be by a supplementary law.
Mr. Harper said, whether two additional
agents are necefTary or not, is mere matter of
opinion, and he .was inclined to take the opi
nion of the President and Secretary of War,
before that of the gentleman from Pennsylva
nia. Mr. H. in lifted upon the Presidents'
right to appoint more agents, if he thought
them necefTary.
The motion to drike out was carried 34 to
29.
Mr. Harper moved an additional item of
100,000 rations at 20 cents, underthe head of
the Indian department, for the use of the In
dians who visit the pods, which was negatived
28 to 27.
The item of 169,000 dollars for cannon and
arms, was agreed to be omitted, and consider
ed in the bill which relates to the purchasing
of founderies.
Mr. Harper then proposed two additional
items to make good the deficiencies of lad
year, which were agreed to in blank.
The committee then rose j and the house
took up the amendments reported by the
committee. All were agreed to until the
Quarter Mader's Department came under
conlideration, when
Mr. Ga llatin moved to drike out 200,000
dollars, for the purpose of inserting 150,000.
A great part of this expence, he said, was in
curred if transporting our troops from one
place to another, and now they were dation
ed, he thought the sum he had mentioned
would _be very ample. Indeed, he fliould not
have been in favour of so large a sum, only
that some vefTels would be necefl'ary to be
built ,m the Lakes.
Mr. Harper said, this appropriation was
included lad year along with tne Indian De
partment, Defenfive Protection, Bounties,&c.
for which 300,000 dollars were appropriated,
and they found there was a deficiency of
50,000 dollars. He could not fay under what
head this deficiency arose, but it was chielly
under that ot Quarter mader's Department.
As the edimate was 200,000 dollars, he hoped
that sum would be agreed to, as the Secretary
of War was more likely to know what was ne
cefTary than any gentleman in that house
c Juld be.
Mr. G a llatin contended,that on a com
parison with the expences of former years,
the sum he proposed, was quite large enough.
The deficiency of last year of 50,000 dollars,
which the gentleman had mentioned, ought
not to have taken place. 'I he Secretary of>
War was not judified in expending more in
these contingencies than was appropriated
(except in cafe of neceflity) otherwise the Se
cretary ot War, and not Congress regulated
the expenditure of money. It would be ne
cefTary to enquire into this business, and ex
cept some prefling necellity could be Ihcwn
for going beyond the appropriation, lt«fho»i!d eonfider the Secretary nf War as !i -h
---ly V»le for having done so, as the appro*
priation is the only cheek which the leg (la
tere has over thele contingentexpences.
.Mr. J. Williams agreed with the gen
tleman from Pennfylvanraih?t the expences
of the quarter matter's department ought not
to large now our troops are stationary.as
heretofore ; but he thought these objecti
ons ought to have been mniß in the com'nitiee
o< thewhoW; and if there existed doubts as
to the jnftnefs of the acco nits in tlpis bofinefs,
the report had better be re-committed until
they were examined, as the rwo gentlemen of
the committee of ways and means seemed to
differ fp widely.
It pall the usual hour of adjournment,
A motion was made to adjourn, and carri
ed, so the question on this point was not tak
en. Adjourned.
'
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
* T
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, DAYS.
Ship Americajacobs, Madrafs k Tran
quelnr 152
Brig William, Lunt Newburypon 8
Sloop Mary, Gamble Havaninh 23
CLEARED.
.. Siiip J»hn, M Neii Surinam
Aurora, Sutcr Jeremie
Sn'iw William, Lord Edenton & Lisbon
Bn'g Shields, J jagll ; ra
Sciir. Neptune, Waters AuX-Cayes
Liule-V/ill, Watson New-Orleans
Folly, 1 ice Alexandria
Sloop Eagle, Eirle Norfolk
Harlequin, Broad New York
1 he brig I ranklin, Morris, of Wilming
ton, Delaware—brig Sally, Hampton, of
this port, both from New-York to St. Bar-
I unanaews, and the Hoop Saily, Stoteibury
from hence to St. Thomas, are taken by the
French, and carried into St. Martins.
New-Tori, March 26.
ARRIVED. bays
Schr. Knntrefs, Fitch, Savannah
Cia-iffj, , do .
A:;t:!ope, M'Dowjrll, Norfolk
Sloe •Dove, CW,, St. Bartholomews ao
C»m<lli>, Clark, Norfolk
K>mb!er, Stur ?t3 , Geo-getown
Eri; Commerce, Delnnce, N. Bedford
Msry, Hickman, St. Thomas
Pact. Fame, Riciimond
Mary, Kobinfrn, No-fnlk
Sloop Rache., n eekW, Gonaives
jVanev, D Smith, Geatp^elown.
By ?hf 11 op capt. M'Combs, aodayg
ti"*'!* 1 ! .it. Martin's. Vessels carried in there by
t(ie French.
Br:c* Anthony, «f and mrom New-York ;
Fi aiik'.in, of vVilmineiton New York;
Vultii e, of and from Saiem—for trial.
Saily, ot and from Norfolk, cleared.
And a (loop from Philadelphia, condemned.
Baltimore, March 22.
Yesterday arrived fchonner Experiment,
cjpt. Knapp, days from the Havanna:
to captain James Stewart's marine lift, the
following till of vessels was sent by his cor
respondent in the Havanna.
Lifl of American vessels lying at the port of
Havanna, Februarys, 1798.
Ship George & Patty Washington, Stockett,
Baltimore
Flora, Allen, Providence, R. -I.
Rebecca, Tiers, do.
Hope, Corrie, do.
Edward, Bowler, do.
George, William Smith, do.
Diana, Duplex, New.York
Citizen, Hubbeil, do.
Planter, Hudson, Charltfton*
Harry, Armrtrong, t Philadelphia
Portsmouth, Monck, do.
Abigal, Wood, Rhode-Island
Hope, Howland, do.
fearque Efftl, Henderfon Salem
Galen, Mack do.
Snow Dove, Munro, Bristol, R. I.
Sally, Snell do.
——,-Maybury Newport, R. I.
Brig Enterprize, Mallony, New York
Aurora, Reynolds, do.
Little-George, Griffiths do.
Dispatch, Henfhaw do.
Harriot, Edwards, Baltimore
Orion, Dighton, R. I.
Bristol, Smith Bristol, R. I.
Storack, Bradford do.
Harmony, Clark Charleston
Hannah, Peywood do.
Fame, Howard do.
Lavinia, Stone Ntwburyport
Enterprize, Hofmer Salem
Hind, Fairfield do.
Columbia, Edden Warren, R. I.
Clinton, Champlin do.
Eliza, Champlin do.
Peggy, Small Boston
Polly, Barry do.
Schr. Flying-Squirrel, Bu(h Norfolk
•Hunter, Kirby Baltimore
Lydia, Fearfon do.
Olive, Sheffield BrookhaVen
, Vengeance, Thomas New-York
Harriot, Roberts Charleston
Blaekney, Norris Bristol, R. I.
Neptune, Potts Rhode-Island
Polly, Shillaber Salem
Joa, Thompson Boston
Sloop Harriot, Carr Warren, R. I.
Harwich Packet, Driggs Barnftnblc
Sally, Anthony Providence, R. I.
Friendlhip, Briggs E.Greenwich, do.
Mr. Stewart, may corredly enter on his
marine lift, the above vessels, which are not
one kalf the number—l (hall fend you all
the arrivals after this date by the next con
veyance.
GINSENG,
SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CHESNUT STREET.
Wants to purchase good Ginseng, j
gathered in season, and clear of damage— j
for which ? generous price will be given if
delivered any time before the 15111 of ApriJ. (
march 21 ipt j
TO RENT, 1
A good three story Houfc,
V\ O ro<'m« on etch flor'r, v irh a conveniert ,
rv nen—in near South-Prcrt.-^—enquire J 1
*1 iKc P»inter. Inarch j—juwjw |r
BY THE
' Pr"ftdent of the United States of America,
A PROCLAM VTJON.
AS the fafety and prosperity of nations
ultimately and efTentinlly depend ou
the prote6Vion and the blefting of Almighty |
God ; and the national acknowledgment of
this tmrh is not only an indifpenfahle duty
which the people owe to him, but duty
whose natural influence is favorable t<> the
promotion of that Morality and Piety, w *h
out which social cannot ex ill no J
the Bleflings of a Free Government be en
joyed ; and as this Duty, at all times in
cumbent, is so efpccially in seasons of Dif
ficulty or of Danger, when exifling or threa- j
tening Calamities, the just Judgments of
God iigainit prevalent Iniquity, are a loud
call to Repentance and Reformation : And f
as the United States of America are, at pre
sent, placed in a hazardous and affli&ive fit- !
uatitfn, by the unfiiehdly Disposition, Con- j
dixsl and Demands of a foreign power, e- !
v nced by repeated refufals, to receive our
Me (Ten gers of Reconciliation and Peace, by
Depredations on our Commerce, and the
Infli&ion of Injuries on very many of our
Fellfcw-Citizens, while engaged in their law
ful business on the Seas Under these con
lideraiions it has appeared to me that the
Duty of imploring the Mercy and Benedic
tion of Heaven on our Country demands,
at this time, a special attention from its In
habitants.
I HAVE therefore thought fit to recom
mend, and I do hereby recommend, that
IVedntfclay the Ninth Day of May next be
observed throughout the United States, as
a day of Solemn Humiliation, Falting, and,
Prayer; 1 hat the Citizens of these States,
abllaining on that Day from their customa
ry Woildly Occupations, offer their devout
Addiefies to the Father of Mercies, agree
ably to those iqrms or methods which they '
have severally adopted as the most suitable 1
and becoming : That all Religious Congre- 1
gations do, with the decpeft Humility, ac- '
knowledge before God the manifold Sins
and Transgressions with which we are justly (
chargeable as Individuals and as a Nation ; '
befeeeliing him, at the fame time, of his in
finite Grace, through the Redeemer of the
World, freely to remit all our Offences, and '
to incline u., by his Holy Spirit, to that 1
lincere Repentance and Reformation which
may afford us reafott to hope for his inesti
mable Favour and Heavenly Benediftion :
I hat it be made the fubjedfc of particular
and earnest supplication, that our Country
may be protected from all the dangers which
threaten it ; that our Civil and Religious '
privileges may be pieferved inviolate and '
perpetuated to the latell Generations ; that (
oar public Councils and Magistrates maybe ■
tfpecially enlightened & dire&ed at this cri- '
tical period ; that the American People may *
be united in those Bonds of Amity and mu-
tual Confidence, and inspired with that Vi- 1
gour and Fortitude by which they have in 1
tunes {Kit been so highly diltinguiihed, and 1
by which they have obtained such inralua- 1
ble Advantages : That the Health of the
Inhabitants or our Land may be preferred,
and their Agriculture, Commerce, Fifhe
nes, Arts, and Manufaaures be blessed and -
prospered ; that the principles of Genuine 1
Piety and Sound Morality may influence 1
the Minds and govern the Lives of every de- '
fcriplion of our Citizens ; and that the
Bleflings of Peace, Freedom, and Pure Re- 1
lijjion, may be fpeedly extended to ail the
Nations of the Earth.
And finally I recommend, that on the
said day, the Duties of Humiliation and
Prayer be accompanied by fervent Thanks
giving to the Beftower of every Good Gift,
not only for having hitherto prote&cd and
preserved the People of these United States '
in the independent Enjoyment of their Re
ligious and Civil Freedom, .but also for hav
ing prospered them in a wondel-ful progress
of Population, and for conferring on them
nany and great Favours condudtive to the 1
Happiness and Prosperity of a Nation. u
GIVEN Hurler my Hand and the Seal e
of the United States as America, | v
(ls) at Philadelphia, this twenty third ■ V
day of March, in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred ' (
and ninety.eight, and of the Inde- !
pendente of the said States the twen- P
ty-fecond. I
JOHN ADAMS. 1
By the Prefldent,
Timothy Pickering e
Secretary of State.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-\ ORK, March 26. /
On Saturday niorning came on and con- a
tinued through the day, one of the most a
tremendous gulls from the East, ever re- '
inemhered here ; which has done confidera- n
ble damage to the shipping in the harbor, ai
as well as houses in the suburbs.
Several small vefftls dragged their anchors p
and went 011 (hore—and we are informed fe- p
veral unfinifhed houles in the luburbs were
blown down—and others had their roofs ta- tl
ken off. j,
It isreafonably e nje<3ured that much da, T
mage is done to vessels on our coalt—3 fchr. n
is said to have gone afliore on Staten-Ifland w
below the Narrow's. p,
DIED—On Saturday nWrning, very J
suddenly of the J.cch having run a fh
nail in his foot a few days before, captain tt
S Join Stales, of this city. Capt. Stakes
was-a brave soldier in the late American ar
my,& had ever adhered to the glorious prin
ciples of the American revolution.
The lail obfequics of this loldicr and pat
riot were lait evening performed in folt-mn
military fpltndbr, generally attended by
members ol the Cincinnati, Mnfons, and
other citizens forming a more numerous pro
ceflion than has been witrtefled in this city
for many years.
BOSTON, March 20.
A letter from Glouccfter with advice of
i, the late arrival from France, adds, the cap
tain aflures me, that previous to failing he
s saw a letter from Mr. Mountflorence, who
; Paris, Hating, that the Executive DirtQo
p ry hud, by meflage, applied to the Council
r of Five Hundred for a Decree to fubjedt to
, capture all American veflels whose papers
a should be fouid with the (ignature of the
| prefcut Prelidenfof the United States.
r The captain above mentioned, is a man of
< veracity fe intelligence. The news does not i
/urpafs belief, ft the French ever declare war
ag-ainlt us it will be in some such base fneak
j ing way, making a diftinaion between.the
- government and the people. Divide and
dcltroy is their rule. The veil of hypoerify
t and dittoing is easily penetrated by enlight
ened Americans, and they discover in an in
; Itant, the viie unmanly designs which lurk
i beneath.
! The J3riti(h flill contemplate the bom.
; bardmcnt of Cadiz. The moderate weather
1 alone is waited for.
A report was current that the Moors and
Algerines were at war.
Four ot five' American veflels lately at A
licant, have gor.e from thence to Algiers,
for a convoy out of the Streights, having
received the promik* of such prote&ion
What a changeable world 1 Those who were
recently the plunderers of our property and
the enslavers of our citizens are r.ow their j
protectors, against the ravages and infultiof {
thole who were then our sworn friends, and '
who It ill have treaties with vis made in the
name of the Holy Trinity !
Capt. Bass from the Welt Indies, informs
of the capture of the French corvette Sci
, pio of 26 guns: by the British frigste Lap
wing, of 32 guns. She was going" from
Point Petre to Bafieterre, (Gua.) The Eng
lish frigate got fight of her, chafed her in
to the harbour, engaged and took her un
der a fort which was firing i durtng the whole
of the tranfadlion.
Last evening arrived fch. John, Dagget,
6 days from Philadelphia. Came out of
the Vineyard on Friday in company with
15 fail of vessels, among whom was captain
Toby, from Carolina, one brig, and several
j top-fail schooners, unknown. Saw a Da
nish Ihip on shore at Cape Cod, She was
bound to Philadelphia.
. NORFOLK, March 17.
Extraft of a letter to a refpeSlable gentleman in
this town, dated St' Bartholomews, Fe
bruary' 6, 1798.
" Your favours of the 16th July and 12th
August are now Wefore me, and note the
contents. lam now to acquaint you for
your information, and others concerned, .
that his majesty the King of Sweden, has
ordered that the brig Polly, and her cargo
shall be delivered up to the French captors,
so that all those concerned have an opportu- '
nity now of proceeding as they think pro- J
per. Times very dull here, and a great
itngnation to trade."
BALTIMORE, March 24.
Arrived this day brig Enterprise, capt.
Eddy, 25 days from Point Pctre (Guada
loupe) last from St. Kitts, 20 days, into <
which latter place he was carried, detained '
five days, and liberated.
By capt. E. we have received rhe follow- |
ing lift of condemnations at Guadaloupe I
Ship Friendship, , . Baltimore <
Brig——, Engiifh, New-Haven '
Friendfhijr, Oats, South-Carolina j
Fell s-Point, CTeighton, Baltimore 1
Fair American, —. ——, Wilmington c
(N.C.) t
Endeavor, , New-Haven
Schr. Betsy, , Philadelphia
. e SSY' » Cherry-stone
And five others, names uot recolle£led.
The brig Eleanor, of Baltimore, bound
from Point-Petre to St. Thomas's, was ta
ken by a British ship of war about the 15th
ultimo, carried into Dominique and clear
ed ; afterwards, proceeding on her voyage,
was taken off Baffcterrc, by a French pri
vateer, captain and supercargo taken on
board the pirate, and the veffcl sent to -
leeward, unknown where. 0
Captain Cahoon of Baltimore, in the *
prize schooner Columbia, bought at Point tl
Pctre, is taken by the British, carried into "
Dominique and libelled. e
Captain Eaiton, of another prize fchoon- !'
er, bought at fame place, is affo taken into p
the fanie port and libelled. tl
CHARLESTON, March'is. «'
a!
Yesterday arrived the brig Aurora, cap- u
tain Woodman, from Bourdeaux-—The ca
Aurora left Bourdeaux the 22d of January,
and the river the 23d, as it was expefled 1,1
anotner embargo would belaid on. a .
The verbal information by this vessel does ai
not confirm prior accounts of commotions w
and diaifions in Paris.
The talked of Inva/ion of England was flill j C
pursued, and vessels "of all ddcriptiom were C
placed in requisition for the pnrpofe.
The report of the day in Bourdorux was
that England was declared.in a ftatr of
blockade ; that Buonrparte'a broth«r, the
French miniftcr at Rome, had been affafli- T
nated ; that general Bertliier had marched
wirti his army to that city, and that the A
pope had fled.
Several letters of the 12th and 14th of ll
January mention, that captain Pratt of the
fliip l ederalil'f, had gone to Bayonne, t-o at
tend- the trial of hia fliip ; that i'roal the
es e'earnefs of his papers, and the cargo bc
r- ing American, they expeited file would be
n- cleared. Captain W. fays that two day*
before he failed, account* of her coildemna
t- tion were received.
n The brig Jason, Weft, of S:ilem, and
y schooner , White, of New Yark fail
d ed in company with the Aurora for this port.
>- The ship Diana, , failed for New
y York the fame day.
The fliip Eliza, Baas, was to fail the lad;
of January or early in February for this
port.
f Letters were received by the Aurora,
1 from general Pinckney, but we have not
e heard their dates nor contents,
n
t note was made by a gentle
man who came paffeiiger in the Aurora
1 Verdin Ron s, 22d January, 1798.
> Captain Woodman, of the Aurora, and
s captain Welt, of the Salem, being onlhore
; thisdayat Rayan,dined with captain Gave
- ftantum,commanding a on this lta
f tion, who informed him thai he hadjuil
t : received his ordersto aft conformably to the
r principles expressed in the message of the
- executive directory, refbetlirisf neutral vcf-.
; fels.
1
■ Xije oas ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, March 27.
ExtraSi of a letter from a gentleman in Bo ft 01
to his friend in Philadelphia, dated March
16, 1798.
" We have accounts from France, which
confirm the new decrte of the French, to
take all neutral vessels with British goods.
They have besides declared England and Ire
I land to be in a Oate of blockade (they should
i have added, by their own Jhips J and forbid
| den all neutrals from trading with them."
In an article published in yesterday's
Gazette it was said that there is not one of
ficer whose conduct in the late war will bear
scrutiny, who is to be found among " the
base hireling crew ©f caluminating Jaco
bins."
Callender, in the Aurora of this morn
ing, has printed the above assertion, and
immediately under it the following :
" Looking into Congress we find many
refpettable military chara&ers ©ppofed to
the present plan of war, such as general
Smith of Baltimore, colonel Parker of Vir
ginia, gen. M'Dowell and col. Gillefpie,
of North Carolina. It is needless to mul
tiply farther examples."
Has Callender the audacity to insinuate
that either of the above gentlemen are Ja
cobins ? Or is it " a precious conr'eflion" of
his employer Bache ?
A JACOBIN SECRFT.
Mr. Fennofays, " it may be boldly proclaim*
" ed that not an officer of the lead credit or rtf»
" pe<flability, or whose conduA during the re
«' voluntary itrogg'.e wil! bear is now
" to be found among the base -hireling crew of
" calmnnnting Jacoiins." —Jacobin Beach in
reply to this, declares that he finds many, and
enumerates peseral SmHh of Baltimore, Col.
Parker of Virginia, general M'nowell of N.
Carolina, and col. Gillefpie.—Who ever suspec
ted, or would have known this if it had not
been tilahed out by lom:-jacobin ? A pr.cicu:
confeffi'W ! ! !
Schuylkill permanent Bridge. 1
THE fubfcribcrj Commiffiißcrs appointed by (
all ait ot aSembly of this Commonwealth,
enti led "An aft to authorize the Governor of '
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company '
" for erecting a permmi' nt bridce eve the river
" Schuylkill, at or the city of Phi!a/h Ipbis," '
hereby give notic ,th.t Bo lis are provided as the '
1 -;\v
fubferirtions for he Company stoclc, 011 the ninth ,
day ot April next, at the City HpllV in the city of
Philadelphia. ILe fubferiptions wilj be eceivs j '
from ten o'clock in the momiog till two o'clock,
P.M. of th t day; and the books will continue I 3
oven during those hours of fuc<;eeding days, until
the riuaibsr, required by the said law to er.able the °
Commiflioners to certify the fame to the Governor .
for incorporating the Stockholders, be fubferibed '
KICHARn PETERS,
JOHN PEROT, b
GODFREY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, Ttjfh March, 1798. 27 —,;awtf
A House and Lot in Dover. I
FOR SALS,
A LOT OF GROUND, fituatr on the east fide C
of the main ftrect, running through the town v
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela- -
ware, about thirty or for y yards below Captain
Furbee'i Tavern, containing in front on said street
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eastward
twelve perches, together with the buildi gs there
on creded, which conlifl ol a good brick house,
two flo Vies high, well finiHicd, with two rooms a
bout fcventcen or eighteen feet square each, and a
p iflage eight or tea left wide on the firft floor ; B
three rooms with a pafT.ige above, and good gar- Ir
rets, the c ,rs are excellent, one cf which isufed M
as a kitchen ; a hack brick building with two rooms SJ
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four R
teen ; the upper rooms of this building command Pi
cate ahovt (lairs with the palTjge of the house * t
A brickfmokc house, and a good pump of water: A
in tile yard, and a garden arijeining.
Ihe Hcufe is in tvtry refpcS as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in 'a good Vituation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign ot the Eagle. _
T lie terms will be le.ifunable. Apply to-Dan- \
ie) Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, ortothefub- w r
fcriber, No 60, \orth F.i ?hth P u ila lelphi* 1
CADWALADER EVANS.
marchj 7- ius 4 w ft ,
Sr.bfcription Rail.
MR. FRANGIS fcfue^; illly informi the sub- Y<
fcril.er-;. that tht* finifbed, ro
i X l'A B U.I, mi Tti-f-iny the 2ci is
Aprii, at which he rcquchr>iie javor cf the corn- kn
pany of gcntl men v, hose yames zre on the ra
iiu of tl>eiji/i :\ri* fecontl fLriytior. by
La«lit s1 ictett to he had faj* « pplylng to Mr. F. m.
No 7 >, N»»rth . e«i
fcriptior. Tkk'-ts z; cue dollar tzca. ye
march :6.
>'i -r- iiikiuim
»
£ NKW-theatr.h° ~
7° ,
A/r. Bernards .
K TO-MORROW EVENING, March JB,
t. W,, U b .VT^ Cn,^ i v » fi ™l£«»e.«ii-,menr.. c«|| e J
f . ADOPTED child,
im ' the (ir.rt piece, !
Will be prifiiited, a r .lebrites tragedy (ot two
ads) calUvi
13 THE PRODIGAL ;
Or, FATAL EXTRAVAGANCE.
, l A» performed in Lqndpn, the two felt jeafum
with unbounded applaufeJ '
Behjumr (the I'rodi;,l) „ir Fenneli—Concur,
mr \\ igneli— Bargrave, ipr Fox "
Louisa, mr Merry. i
B;tw en the afi, „r the Tr a <rH v
a A DRAMATIC VISION*.
Or, the Court of Tbrfpis,
By Mr. Bernard.
C A. tor which will be performed a new
Ballet, composed by Mr Byrne, called
THE OENJROUS < Alt i
I ~ 0r ' A *«*' M tit 1V,,/! Indie,.
Galleon, (wi.h a Hori.pipc !■ charatfer) Mr,
e Francs—The other principal charade shy nir
e Byrne, mr V aneJl, jun mr T Warred £c
1 ° wh,ch wi -'l l>« Mufical Entertainment,
. The AMERICAN IN LONDON,
Frieedom (the American) mr Warnn r mrle
•«r Foi-l>ulh, mr I ianvnoit—r(l Servant, mr
after ry—Barney Boar, mr Bernard
" " r * Mam**,, mr. Warrell— Mrs Prattle mr.
01dn.,xon Mrsl reedom OM'tL/Fftra; ft—M.rJa
rars Mai (hall. s
licket. to U had at phee , „ a f
Mr. Bernard, corr-M Of .mvsk-Ji jDd-Ch. fimt.ftri.
l & Q ?J rWa y .hree years) ,h 9
Icelrbrated 1 rage y. c.dlf. the •' M N P 7HEK.
I with a L'on-e.jy, in tw > f',crcrrnrl r,,*J
, here) called THF. t'ONJBSI InlEvfs , jf
FAVrxI.-UI'TaioHMEN-For the Benefit
MOR * ion.
» ! V Mr. Fjksui'j Night will be on. MwUj
1 reaftfy UepartinentT"
' , March IQ, r 708.
. _ NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
| H > I prflpola - will c rec ivcd a'. t'eOflkepf
I the Secretary of the T, eafury um, -he expi.
ration of the nth day of July nen fr\
the supply Of ,|1 rations w ic, may l e requi erf
■ for the ule r,f the United State's, iromthe firil day of
■ O Sober 1798. to the thirtieth day of Septenibr*
■ '.799. h"th days incluHve. at the places and w (hjn
. tf,c dmrivi hercaf'er mentioned, viz. At Qfu
at Niagara ; at trefque lilt-. at Miehilimaclun,'.- !
at Fort Franklin j at P trfhurgh ; it U D.-us 1 a t
Cincinnati; at Greenville; at Picque Tow - ,uid
[ Loramie s More; at Fort VV'ayne ; at Fplt I'tfl.
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi,
, ami River to Lake Erie ;at For* K; ox and Qua.
tanon on the River Wabafl. jat MafTac; at , ny
| Pac or placet on theeall fide of the Itiver Miffil.
I fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, am) yp,
. on the Illinois River ;at any place or places on tha
east ful« of the MilTiflippi River beiow the mouth
of the River Ohio to the south, rn 1 pund ry of thn
State of Kentucky, and within the fai l St.it at
Knoxvdle, Teliico Block Hpufe, and at all other
Pods in the State of 1 ennelTee ; at ai,y pi c" pi«
. places on the Raft fide of the River Miffiflippi' be,
• low thefoutheru t-oundaiy of the Stat of I ppprf,
fee, to the souther.i hi undarr of tie United
It supplies Ihall be required o' any no'li or'
places not mentioned in this notke.all fuchfur plie.
(hall be furniftied a' prices prop rtionedto those In
the post. before recited a- may be agree.' on be.
tween the United States jir.d the contrailor.
The rations '0 he supplied to cor.fitt of th-foU
lowing articles viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve pur.fei of pork
or bacon r
Half a jill o! rum, brandy or whif >
kr, one quart of Sat two quarts /, er
of vinegar, two poumis of soap, (
one ( ound of candies ') r4tiqp,#
The rations are to b furnifhed in such quantities,
as th t. there ffcall at all mis during ihe fii • term
be fufficient f. r the 100 l mptiou of the troops at
Mich.limackinac, Detroit. Viagara, and Ofwc» s ,
fir the term of fix mo ths in a'ivance, and a{ each
of the other pofis, for the terin of a lealt thftij
nionths is advance, in good and wholefomc proVi.
,10ns, if the fame stall be required. I i- ,« be iin,
derftood, that the contra<Hor is to be at .he er.
p nee and risk ol issuing the supplies to the troops
at each pe ft, and that all iofies fwlTiined by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of tha
trcops 01 the United States, (hall be paid for at
he I ricy of the article- captured or dellroyed, on
he depofitiot.s of two orn.ore perfoni of credita.
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiflion.
ei oftcer, afcertainirg the circurtflances of th«
lofsand the am unt of the articles for which com,
pen r atiqn (hall b« claimed.
1 he priviledge is rcferved to the United Stat««
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
bc.furt.ifhed under the p-opofed contra<3, Bial| ba
ifiued, until the supplies which hav? or may bo
furnilhed under the contract now in force hays
been cotifumed
OLIVES, WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
rn "" ? ' *7- 2 m-tl iy
IMPORTED, "
In the Brig Benjamin Fr an kll n, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THjt SUBSCRIBER
| Claret in caflcs
White wineinh-lf caflcs
weet oil ol a superior quality in boxes and baflccti
Lunelle
Sauterne (
Macarty, and C Wines in Cifct.
Medoc j
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, vVa nut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAUD,
Bourdeaur Brandy in pipes v Imit'ed
Irish market 7 , ir . r C fn
Medoo, and Sau'erne j Ir, f ß in ca^es drawback
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bufliels I iverpooibalt.
n>arch J 9 mw&ftf
Forgeries Committed.
TX/HEREAS several forgeries have been com.
V V rnitted in this city by one or two porfonj
known by the names of Dr. Grant, alias S.nith,
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a green cost,
tall ill psifon, and genttel,'had loft one or two
t.eth in front. ; lodged, abcut July, 1796, ar.Mr,
Grimes's tavern, at the George, in North Sjcond
fireet ; his friends live in New EngUno ; suppos
ed to have roenmitted several forgeries in New-
York, and is fail to be confined at the whetl-b«r.
row at Baltin-.rre lor dealing watches. The other
is a ftort, thick man, by the njimc of Gilbirt,
known by Mr. Grimes -.nd Mr.'l 3 gnall, and levc
ral other perims in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wk. Ptm,
man. No. 15/SuHtii Fiflh-fireet, will be elieen.-
ed a favor. Gi. err is between 20 and 30
years.old; yellow, fiekly look.. » 7e be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Canta-nifig 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat
t.." story brick Houfc and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, ike. lituate on the Irilfc trad lane, in
thec:w:iihip of Moyamenfiajf, about one milefrom
tk-:ity ol Philadelphia. Further particulars wIH
be Trade knowx upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazertt.
Th.-improvements upon this place, for ufte and
ulegance fiau i unrivalled.
N. D. If tbe abuVe place is not fold before the
mth inft. it will then be rented, for the Summer
feafun only. § march 5.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, ipduftrious woman to coot
a/id do rhe bufincfs of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer.
KeKruary y §
Notice is hereby given,
application will be made for the renewal
X of a Certificate of a Share In the Bank of the
United States, Handing in the name of the Subfcri
her, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 s6w
TO LET,"
sfhd may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
dories high, and in an excellent stand for
knfiaef*. Apply to
Thomas iff JoJhtta FiQter 9
march T. § No. 5, Dock-dreet.
Wanted to live in the Country,
Abort five mresfrom this city, a sober ftea
day Man who nndrrftands gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, and would
not objetf to attend a couple of horses Such
a one may meet with liberal wagss by applying
at the office of this Gazette.
N. D. Nrse need apply but those of unex
ceptionable characters.
March i i, dts
.Custom House,
Difiriß of Pennsylvania, March 6M, 1797,
THE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
t who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any fbipcrveffel, «ar
go, cr other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States, residing within this di!lriist, by or
undersie authority of foreign nations, since the
firft day of Oiiober, 179 3, ?.re particularly reques
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient ; fpecifying the name of the veflcj,
the captain's name, the number of tons, the efti
m. ted value of the vtffcl, if condemned; the etli- !
matevalup of her cargo, or other property, whi
th i carried.. and by, or under the authority of
wh:,t nation captured, with fach observations as
may he thought ncceffary upon the circuifetlances
of each cafe, in order that Itatements thereof may I
be tr nfmitted to the Secretary of the i'reafury,
who is required to lay th* fame before tivv Senate
arid House ol Reprefentativesof the United States.
7. 4iot
w anted,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None n.-td apply, unk-fs he can bring good rc
ccfaimenJatfpiisi.
Ehcjuire at Slo. 30 Market-street.
March 17. <>»w
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON V LEWft,
No 115 South Frtfnt Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaicaftum, "> entitled to
ifl and adprotf Brandy, 3 drawback.
Madeira Wire,
Juniper Berries, &c. Uc.
Feb. 9. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR S/IIE,
THAT well tn.wn Estate, called SHREWS
BU&Y FARM, formerly the'refldence of
General John Gadwalader, situate on Saffafras ki
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
boHt. 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. Ihe Buildings are all ex
cellent, and confiftof a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns wirhCow bouses, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpacicus treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's .houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Orn house?, a Smoak
houfe,&c.&c. —The whole Eflate feeing nearly
liirrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring Sfheiy. It i 3
conveniently fit j?ted for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market®, wirh two landings on a navi
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
w a large Peach, and two large As pie Orchards on
thepiemifes; aifo, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kind*. The foil ir n:ofl!y a rich loom.—
The whole %iW b« fold together, or divided into
f:. allcr farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpol'ed of. For further
particulars apply to Gioros Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, ju*.
February 24. 2aw6w
Balkenridge —for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, /imoft ail of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Eorl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five fafms, four of which are bounded on the-
East by the river Pafrfick.
Thec are on it a number of buildings, forming
afq u are of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is & vjry convenient one fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard ccnufts of 1500 fin»bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
var-ry of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and moil delicious kind**.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence rf the place. Itsfituation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : jodo.
from Marris-Town, and ia from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafli, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co. \
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 4» eodtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
ind. Tickets si r Sale in thl< I.ottery, at
Seven Dollar*, at Wa., BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers Oifice, No. 64, South Second-flrcet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill liridge Lottery, at T«
Billtri, where check books aro kept lor render
ing and ex.mining in these, the Oity ol Walhiag
<on, No. ll.aii') Patt.ifoD Lottciics, and informa
tion wh'lre tickets maybe had in n.< ft'of the I.otte- I
riis authotifed by luw in any of the States of the |
■Union.
N.B. Th«b«Cnels»f a PkoKlr, inhuyirgatd
fdlirg all kindu of Fwblic Stock and Securities,
Bill* *nd Notts of Hand, sale of !
1 ands, Houle., &e. &c. w'll beciuiy atiti ded to, •
J y LL/,-CK£i;feN. ;
NovtUibtr Ij. §. j
PROPOSALS,
BY THE
Ttifurance Company of North America.
For Insurance again ft Fire, on Dwelling-
Houfcs, Ware-Hoafes, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurancet, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
r.fqnes a larger premium be required, which
will vaiy according to circumstances, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
stances, where the property insured is not airty In
irfelf extra hazardous, Wut rendered still fo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buddings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftar.ces.
Houses and Ware Houses, the waits and parti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
con ft ru died, so as to be guarded as well as may be
againO fires from wi'hin, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured ta their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o' an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or package*, de
pofircd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on building? and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tho risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or classes, so as to describe
each with the necessary accuracyt Each cafe must
therefore be decided upon aceorcliog to the circum
stances attending it ; and these cjreumftances wili,
in general, appear from the defcrtptloii accompa
uying the application.
Buildings partly conftru&ed of brick or stone,
are preferable to those w holly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fituatcd, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpeit te goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to increaft an accidental fire, and
th< it liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhafly removal, or to be £«o
---len ip time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumfi-ances of weight ; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
HI. The following conditiont are to be under
ftodd by the parties,
ift. The Iniurance is net binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deem«d ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
figried or not.
id. lnfurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
penses thati the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumftancescontinuing the.fame 1
as they WCi e»nderftood by the Tnfurtrs at the time
tile former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is eflential to such rettetfal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
cftiriAg ftlcft time ; no'r can the irifurantfe be renew
ed ©A the forttae* policy fctit by computing the
coromcn'ctnfient of the rehewal frdm the expiration
of the former tnfurauce. The fubjeA of iilfur
ance may neverthelcfs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If a' y other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mult be made krtoWn at the tf'Ane of
applicatior!, other-wife the policy fnade 611 such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on consignment.
jaay be insured as such in a fe?arate policy ; but
, they are not td be considered as infuied other wife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
taffte for any loss or damage occasioned by any f Or
• efgn invafioiT, or by any military or ufnrped force,
or by peafon of any commotion ; or dccafion- 1
! 6d by gunpowdvr, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty if. lured. r
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deids, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any infarance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a shorter.
term than" one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vea years. Persons choosing to infare for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner en an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LolTes sustained by fire on property insured,
Ihall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expe&ed with each application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building or applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleigeof the
parties and their credibility.
With refpetf to Houses and other Buildings >
lit. The site and pofction ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other.cir
cumstances relative to the extinguiflimentof fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are established, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to theoutfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
thickness; the ltyle of the reof arid of what
material* ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls j what kind of accefsto the top of the
house and to the cbimnies whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number aid kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. The dimenGons of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or /ebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of the buildißg,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for* what pur
pose i also an estimate of the value of the bcul'e
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with retpedi to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufa&cry is car
; riedor, and particularly whether there be any
I extra hazardous articles used, or uftially depo
j fired in the hou/e, or within the diftafice afore
; said, and of what kind.
I in Houffcs, Warehouses, &c.
1. A general description of the building in
which they are kept will be expe«Sted, similar in
all refpeiSls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
fclvet.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the gcods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pi.ces or in the ulual form for retailing. And
if goods vary materially in kihd, a genera)
efijcmate of the value vf each fcind prcpofed to
be in'ured ; but in the last particular mimKe
nefsof description is not expeiled.
j. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, th»ugh in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol»n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp,flax, cotton,
dry goods ol an inflammable kind opened.—
Gl ifs, china ware'or porcelain, especially un
packed j Looking glaftes, jewelery ; andallo
ther articles mor« than commonly inflammable,
or more than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moiflures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters pest paid, dire<ft»d to the Secretary of
the Board of Direflors, will be duly attended
to. An order {or Tnfurance accompanied by Che
mean 9 of paying the premium, will he imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be infwered.
By order of the Tleard,
EBF.NEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Office of the Infyrance Company of NoiV* )
America ; Pbiiad. Feb. i, i 798. j
Feb. 14.
House and Lots, in liordeniown.
'IJ 'O BE SOLD, a hanJlome two story House,
X with the Lot on which i' is ereiied, situat
ed about the middle rtf the beautiful and healthy
■ Village of Mordentown. The ho»fe is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, ar. d is one hundred feet 011
the main flrett, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot., eon
tainirg nearly four acres, ft panted from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required up-pn execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder., fuel! credit
w II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. Tb.'is
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indifputalile title given.
For further particulars enquire either r,f Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentov n, near
the prtmife3j who will {hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, N». 43, Mulberry-street.
December 2. jawtf
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the Tjnited States are hereby
informed, that the manufaibure Window
Glass is now commenced at the Oiafs House in
liollon.
It is needless to fay anything of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it isfo well known
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe<st greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cat to aßy size commonly used ; and
may ba constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kuffer, ar the Glass House.
Orders frorti the distant State? tobe addrefled to
Mr. Samuel Gore, CoUrt-ftroet, Boston.
Two 6r three tjooJ Glass makers a*e want
ed ar the above works; such as can produce tg»
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
cn&ploy, by application to iVlr. George Z. Limit, at
the works. Men without families * ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with t-fce method
of rvakwig CrOwn Window Gtafo, they meet
with the fame encouragement).
ftpfion, January 16 % • —iaw6w
New-York, February, 1798.
by GEORGE FORMAN,
FOR PRINTING B7 SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only iix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY against
all the Religions and Governments ot EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Mifoni, fTtormiriati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from pood authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Priffjfsr of Natural Pbilofiphy, and Secretary to tit
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agiiitr paries cum proximus ardet.
THIS work will be put to press as 'soon as
400 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat o6lavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty certts.
Thole who procure la fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
%* The above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eft;mation in the hteriry world—the fa&s therein
recorded are well fub(lan and thereafoning
and argumen s thence deduced, while they difco
vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well a? to in
ftruft. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart Thp
danger to he apprehended from fccret focietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every
deviation from the straight path of religion and
of virtue, incontcftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by ftubborri and incontro
vertable f3<Sta. '
fjf Subscriptions taken in by G. Forman, No. 46,
IVilliam-Jireety oppoftte the Pojl- Office, and by the respec
tive bookfeellers in New-York and Philadelphia.
February 28.
New-York, January 14, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minilier of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in i
vols. oiSlavo, ot 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subferibers, rieatly bound
and lettered, at i dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of tlieSiibfcription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Suhfcriptions, the usual allowance wilL
be mads.
gF Subscriptions ar* taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York-- Also, by William
Young, corner of Second and Chefnut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette ®f the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subferibers
are obtained, the work will he put to press, and
completed with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. jo. cod am
For Sale,
A good situation for a Coantry Seat,
FOR FY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Oermantown and about siva miles
from the City, the whole being uudcr go»d fence,
and in excellent order as pallure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliot t C»»sson, at his office for the
sale of Ileal Eflates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-fireet.
id mo. »6th, 1 iwiw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpurfuance o/the A& of Oogrefs parted on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven,. entitled " An Ail laying duties Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the,
A£t pal Ted on the fifteenth day of Dumber, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-feveH, entitled
" An AH to postpone for a limited time the commencement of t'ne duties i'npofed by the Acl enti
tled "An Ait laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
firft day of July enfiriny, the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collfcc
tcd throughout the United States.
For every Ikin or-piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Pttper, upon which Ihill be
written or printed any or either of the inftrumenti or olio wing—to wit:
Dls Cts. ( Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... s
Any Licence to pradtice,of Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Profler, in any Court of the
United States, ... . - 10
Pro-vided, that a Certificate in anv one of the Courts 6f the United States
for cue of the said Officer, fhj'l so- far as reijtes to the payment of the
duty afcre 'aid, be a fufficient- aAmiffion in all the Count of the United
States, for each and every of the {aid offices.
Any Grant ',ir Letters Patent, under the leal or authority of the United States
(except foi lands gramed.for miiirary fervires) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fui.ll grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services j - a
Any i/harter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or dif.liarge for or on account of anyLrgacy left by any Will or 0-
ther teftiinn ntary iuftrument, or for any fha-re or part of a perfop.al estate di
vided by force oi any fiatute of difti7buti<ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person dtceafed,"the amount whereof shall he
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... -
When the-.amonnt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrod dollars, ... s0
A'.id for every further Aim of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fuin of I
/.'lity Policy of Insurance or mfirnment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefTet or
goods insured from one diflriiSl to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - !
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than l't;ch as it may be the duty of the Clei k of such Court to
furuifh far the use of the United States or some particular fUte, - 50
Any Rond, hill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiffrry
noteorbther note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
use refpeilively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding live hundred dollars, 25 .
If above five hundred dollars and not e-xceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days, »
such bonds or notes shall be fubjeil to only two Cfth parts of the duty
aforcl'aiC—viz. - - - '
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolla-rs, - I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, I io
If above five hundred doiilrs and not exceeding one thousand dollars, j 20
If above one thousand dollars, - - - 30
Any Notes ifliied by the banks now established, Or that may hereafter be eflali
lifhed within the United States, other than the noi-es cf fnch of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual compofirion, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeflively, according to
the following scale. .....
On all note 3 not exceeding fifty dollars, f6r each dollar, - - »
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five»hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all nates above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa,or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military itrvices
performed in the late war, - - - 2^
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - I
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thoufaftd dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tobe exported,
if from one diftri<sl to another diftrii?! of the United States, not being in the
fame State, .... j Q
If from the United Statesto any foreign port or place, - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or made in any
oafe required by law, (except in cafe# of goods and chattels difirained for
rent or taxes, and goods tjiken in virwe of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share any Insurance Company, of a /hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hnndred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at (he rate of ten «w/jfor one hundred dollars.
n.
The duties aforef aid will be colle£ted and received by the Supervisors, Jnfpe<Slors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the several Diflridls, Ssrveyt' and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons a« shall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifers of Diftrids for
that purpose.
111.
The Stipervifsrs of the several Diftrifls will, prio* to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon r,s
may he pra&icafele, mark or ilamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any cf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Sufervilor, Infptiler, Officer of Infpedion,
or other par ton appointed for the diftributioa of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrittls
GIVEN under my Hand, at Philadelphia
the day and year <bttvementUntd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treafurv.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are reqnefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEQ. DOBSGN, } ~ . ■„ ,
No. t S , So. Third-llreet. \ Mm,m J lr r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okiirod,
in Philadelphia,
observations
On the Cause& and Cure of Romitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To "which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the options and praSiceof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and reflexions relative to
the Synochui lacroithi, or Yellow Fever, which
has occafinned so much dillrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of rhs United Srates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Falow of the Philadelphia College of Fhylicians,
and Member of the American Philo/ophicxl So
cisty. Feb. I—*3m§1 —*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and f>ne huudTed and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick bouiia, and a
number of small tenement* thereon.
Sllfo, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient Sores, w harf,'&c. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Safiafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houfts
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirabletit
uation for a a merchant, flour sailor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for cadi. For further information apply
ts the printer.
July jr. m*wtf
Secretary of tbe Treasury,
Saiifbury Estate.
Subfcriber, proposing (o contra® his buli»
ness, offers this Elhte tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conntfl
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built for the purpol'e of catting Cannon
for tins State.-"—There are abou two thou find acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the befl Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannlaetared there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
lupeiior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to aHy in (he world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although fomeofthea4 were bored
into 3Z pounders have failed on proving. The situ.
ation is very eligible, particularly for this-branch of
manufafiure, and a place of arms lying in the Date
of Conne£licut,and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's riuer,and having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have polTeflion
onor before the firtt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately there»fter, for every part will l»e delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, aijply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia! David Brooks, E(q. one of the Representative*
in Congress for this State ; "Mr, Bavid Waterman, on
thepreimfes, or toiheproprietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON,
Dee. ». 3 , wt f
A O T I C E.
A MannfoSnry of yelloiv and delft tvarf,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
onthe tall Bank of Hudson's River, !U*.e of Newg
York, * here any article of vaiidus foris and fhapea
may be executed, as well as earthern stoves upon •
new conHru&ion, that favrs ihree fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron ftov?s or open chvmnies;
they arc beGdes very wholefcme and ornamental, by
applyingt®
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (kiilful hand to attend to the bakinp and
giving part of the said ware. Generous appoint*
menu will be given. Anply asfebeve, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Feb. eod4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convsnient HOUSE, in or near
the icntreof th« city—for which a generous
rent wili begiven ; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Ipquireof thu Primer.
OA, 17. eotf