w# '*** Philadelphia Daily -Advertiser*.
hIIMBER 1916.3
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 42C0 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia boilt, well found
Vs^<JZZ£sf*£-i an d fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye —fl»e is pierced
j8 gun*, and mounts 12 new fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
THE SHIP
DIANA,
Burthen »> IO ° barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
cedar, i» pierced for four
teen guns tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
withlmall arms in proportion,
THE BRIG
A M A Z O N,
. Burthen t 3CO barrels of Flour,
i .l »«3Ka<C<M»^j^ w .i7 ri g' ianf | built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready forfea
?n a few days.
For terms apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
in hoardfunJry •uejfels at Marcvs-Hook.,
4i,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine fait
x,ioo bulhels of coals
IS6 crates ef queens ware affortM
7 tiercec of bottled porter
to barrels of coleothard piint
4 do. of purple brown do.
i quantity of ysllsw ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red piint
6 barrels mineral b!ack -10.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxgs of pipes
91 box.-s white ) HA VANA SUGARS
89 do. brow n )
3,5001b§. prime cochineal
3 barrels Ifcew Orleans indigo
4 punchebns Jamaica spirits
to bales ot fail canvass
379 meets of copper, assarted from 48 by 24
to 60 by incites
Two tubs raised still bottoms afforled
36 fix pound guns 4 J feet, 84cwt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 41b* each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mullins and shawls
14 cases muflinet3, drmities and ginghams
»8 chests coloured nankeens, mufiinets, &c.
11 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of white and coloured caffimeres
1 bale of course woollens
Unglilh nails assorted.
Prober 17. fri.&fat. tf.
. For Sale.,
THE Subscr id EE. intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuffki
ently known for the extensive business cone in the
wholesale and retail line ; the fitnation tqual to
any in the city, being «t the cuincr of Walnut and
Seyjt&JJtacsl*. Xlif whole. ojr.any part of ;he
Steele, will be fold, as will bell suit the purchaser.
Ths terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jtru.
Wlo has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the rivtr trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business
€? All persons indebted to the late firm si
•Gtldt/fwait & Bald-win, IV. B- Goldtbuaii, Gold
ihiwait & ivhwrr, ot the fubfcri'.er, are earneflly
requeued ce make speedy payment to
James moore, jhn.
aligns"- 3 §
' V
Ship Brokers.
This Ellablilhmcnt, commenced by the late Mr.
Samuel Smith, will be continned by
Row & Simmons,
WHO refpe&fully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Matters of veffeU; that n«
paina or exerricfn« (hall be wanting to give general
(atisfa&iou .This business will be condu&ed at their
St«re, No. 107, South Water Street, near to the
Custom Houft.
Q&oher 17 dtf
For Sale, or Charter,
tlfr'fffry THE DANISH BRIG
NOW lying at Burlington, a ve-
Sy faft sailer For terms appy to
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bulhels of
St. Martin's Salt.
10 mo. 14th. '9B d«ot.
AVIS AUX F KAN COW,
v—*. Le Parlementaire
L A VICTOIRE,
d'une marche fup£rieure partira
f'o-SJ IJ prefix, dire&ement pour lc
Wort Republicain, ceux qui
xi£6rent y prendre passage font pries de fe rendre a
Philadelphia avant I* dits ipoque.
3'adreffer a New York chez Mcflieurs Blanche
reau and Cazmeuve. James lireet, No. 20, and a
Philadelphie chcz Fs. Breuil, Armateur du dit
fcatimem Spruce lireet, Nd. US-
Le 5 Navembre, * d<t
Wanted to Charter,
FOR BALTIMORE,
A Small Vessel,
FROM four to five hundred barrels
IxirJen. PETER BLIGHT.
Whose Counting House
has ooened, »$ usual, this day.
»<»▼• s Jit
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA:
AVIS AUX FRANC AIS.
X —3,-, Le Parlementaire le
Amjjr BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
Capt. Jones,
Codku par fa marche lup<rieore K pari
XT™"~**J tira i e j j Jiredement p«ur
Jcremu 1 ceux qui i'earent y prendre pa.Tige sons
pries de fe rendre a Philadelphie avant !a dite
epoque.
S'idrefler a New Yofk chez Meflieurs Blanche
reau asi Cazeneuve, James street, No ap, and a
Philadelphie chez Fis. Breuil, armateur d*dit ba
timent Spruce street, N«. I rj.
le c nov. 1798 < . *
For Savannah, (Georgia.).
FAST SAILING COPMRED 9IIIP
Richard West, Matter,
TO fail in tea days.—For freight «r piflage ap
ly to STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Street.
irBO MAS,
140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
And a box of Mace, for sale.
November 6 eo6t
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST, on the road from Mount Holly to Phi
ladelphia, on Monday 19th Oflober, 1798,
the following NOTES, payable to the fubferiber :
Dulls. Cts.
Elizabeth Norman, of June 29
17f16, at 6 months, for 333 33
Do. fame date,at 12 months, 333 3 3
Do. do 18 months, 333 33
Jacob Norman, September 30
'795, at 60 days, 8i 60
Thomas Potts, Sept. 16, 1796,
at 60 days 9°°
Jofepli Doane, Aagud 17, 17961
at 6 months 440 60
Do. fume date, 12 months 440 60
Do do. 18 months 440 60
M'Kean & Van Emhurgh's note,
dated Novsmber 9,1796, at 6<J
days - - ItJO
Do.Nov. 16, 1796, at 60 days 1175
Nathan Field, Nov. 4, 1796, at
60 days - - Bj6
John Negut, December 5,1796, at
60 days - - Boj 89
Joseph Norman, April 26,1797, at
60 days - - 340
David Scull, July 18, 1797, at 60
days - - - 56 98
Job* Perry, January I, 1798, at 6
months - - 360 50
Do. do. 12 months 371
Benjamin F. Garrigues, February
21, 1795, at one year - 600
Do. do. % years 600
Do. do. 3 years 600
Do. do. 4 years 600
Wilson and co. note, May 8,1798,
nt 30 day 6 - - ioa
Row and Simmons, June 15,1798
at 5 days - - 53J
Two Lottery tickets indorsed on the back John
R. Taylor and John Clirt.
There are fame other Notes, Draughts & Orders
of no use but to the fubferiber.—Any perfbn find
ing the fame and returning them to Mr. Alexan
der Shiras in Mount-Holly, pr t» the fabferiber,
No. 55, North Water street, Philadelphia, (hall re
ceive the above reward ;'.nd no questions aflced.
Payment being llopped, they can be of no use
but to the owner.
JOHN CLARK.
Nov. t. dtf
United States
Penßfylvania Diftrifl. J
IN pyrfuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richard Peters, efqr. judge of the
diftriiit court of the United State», m and for the
Penafylvauia diftricl, will be exposed to public sale,
on Walnut street wharr, on Thorfday the Bth of
Novcnibvr next, at 12 o'clock at r.oon,
I large new cable i\ pieces of fail cloth
I do. worn do. 1 /hip's bell
1 small da. do. 7 iron bound nater cades
I cable about { inches A demr raft or trachine
I old do. 5 do. to press goods when
I coil of cordage loading
1 do. of do. new 1 iron cranes
2 founding lines of one X new flag /
hundred and fourteen, [ do. jack
and fifty fathoms I pennant
I main fail 4 copper kettles and lids
X fore-top-fail 2 tea kettles
I main top-fail I coffee kettle
I jib A small copper pot & lid
I main-top (lay-fail 4 compalfts
3 lludding-fails A small anchor
I 4 under iliidding fails 36 calki of rum and about
I fun fail 12 calk* «f sugar.
The artid's aforefaid being »nw on board the
brig Speculation lying in the port of Philadelphia,
and diftriist of Ptnnfylvania—l'he fame having
been saved from the wreck of the Danish (hip
Den GodchaiDgh-. at fta, and libelled against far
salvage.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marital.
Marfhal'^ffice,Od. 25.
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that lie carries on his
business at Wo 99 South Secmd-Jlreet, nearly op
posite the Merchants Coffee house « h«re gen
tlemen maybe supplied in the neatefl and best
manner—heaffures ;hcfe who may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fide shall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement,
N. B. Orders received will be punflually at
tended to.
November 5 $
DISIRICI OFPtNNSYLVANU. IO WU ;
BE, IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
\ )of August, in the twenty-third year of
the Independence of the United States of
America, Bcnjaipm Smith Barton, of the laid dif
triift, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whcr»of he clairns as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By benjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D. Correspondent Member of theSocie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
14 the American Philofopliical Society, Fellow of
" the American Ac»demy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Correfpond'dg Member of the MafTa
" chufetts Historical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Msdica, Natural Hiltory and Botany
" in the Univer.lty ot Pennfylvaaia "
In conformity to the afl of the Congrsfs of the
United State«, intitled " An at for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the copic» of maps,
charts,and boots, to the authors and proprietor,
of luch copios during the times ther.in mentioned.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELL. Clerk, DiU.of Penn'
November 2, J79S.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 7, <798.
ISRAEL PLEASANTS Co.
No. 74, South Second(lreet,
Have returned frr.m the country ; and have for
SALE, as usual, a large ajfortment as
DRY goods,
Imported in the lad vessels fro n Europe, confilting
of articles principally suited to theprefent and ap
proaching season
They are 'lctcrntined to fell off very low for
cash or Ihort credit.
Note. All persons indebted to the late firm of
Samuel PleaJants Is" Sons, are ritfired to make im
mediate payment to the fubfcriSers.
Israel PleaJants & Co.
N°v- » d4W
FRUITS, WINES, SsV. ~
MALAGA WINE, in butts
SHERRY ditto, in quarter casks
BRANDY, in butts and pipes
SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
MUSCATEL do. in boxes
BLOOME do. in do.
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks
OLIVE OIL ia boxes of 12 bottles
BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
boxes, &c.
FOR SALE BY
PETER KUHN,
No. 178, North Market ftrcet.
Nov 2 diot
The Subscribers
Are now Landing—For Sale,
St. Croix Rum—Mulcovado Sugar
Red Port Wine,
In pipes, hcglheaHs and quarter Caflcs.
Two thousand bushels of Salt,
Eighteen Iron Six pounders' proved at AVooiwich.
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
November 3 dtot
JuJl imported in Jfjips William Penn, A
miable and Jean, from London,
A quantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls
Ca'ronades, 11 lbs. J suitable.
Mufquets, Mufquetoons.Cutlaffes and~l to
Piltols, for (hips use, |
Rifled barreled Guas, Fowling Pieces, t § S
and Horfeman'sPiftols, f
400,000 Flints, c.liefly for mulkets, in J ' S*
kegs. Jig
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres., with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 5® each,
I-ight Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlasses, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortmemt—For Sale by
Thomas & Jrto. Ketland\
Philad. October 45.
' "
Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
THE firft are »equefted to render their Ac
counts againll him, made up to the 13d
day of Auguit, 1797, the date of his Align
ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
I he last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, before the firft day of December ensuing.
Any that remain unsettled after that period, will
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in fa6l) to the
Aflignees and Truflees of
J.Shields.
Chefnut-ftreet, No, za.
November I, 1798. dtf.
FOR SALE,
A F ARM on the road leading to State Island,
within four and an hall miles of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in the higbeft Hate of cultivation
—aj acres of which it meadow, the remainder up
land. I here areon the premises, a new frame House
and Barn, with an excellent kitchen garden, contain
ing a great number of fruit trees.—lmmediate pyffcf
fidn will be given.
For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis,
*ov. 3. j 5
SAMUEL PARKER,
BRASS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. 137, Mulberry street,
CONTINUES to carry on the Iraftfoundery i
bufmefs as usual, where his former custo
mers and the ptablic may be supplied with call
ings for machines to any pattern, rudder braces,
bolts, &c for ships.
It may be proper to add, that, as it has been
reported he had declined the bufmefs, S. P. tikes
this means of informing the publia that he i«
making, arrangements to carry it on Hill more
extenflvely, hoping thereby to comply prompt
ly with such orders as he may have to execute
gF Bells, of any size, cafl for churches and
other inflitulnms j printers rules, 4cc.
©cftober 26 eo 3t.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
TOHN A* SH AF.FFF.R, Philadelphia, who has
J tor a few years pa'.t been in the fouthem States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
ehange on Timothy Pickaring, Esq. Secretary of
State, and mylelf.and by that means hssdefraudsd
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of lettersaad papers with the
(names affixed Olivers public chara&eis and repu
table merchants highly rec»mmendatory of laid
Shaeffer; to one ol these papers I find my name
fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
I have to rcquefl the | rintcrs of Newspapers in the
United States to publilh this for the ben»6t of their
fellow-citazcns. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trtafurer tftbi Unitmt States.
Trenton, New
Oflober 24, 1798. )
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Lvpcr, a fifer.—'
He had when he went away, a plain t lue jacket and
veft,light blue overalls, around hat, which had been
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fitft defcrtion, and a pair of new Aioes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy bair
fallow complexion add a nitch in his upper lip
His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few 1
days ago He may bo difeovered by his fifeing, |
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the j
October 17. Marine Corps.
NOTICE,
THAT the firft Monday of December next is
appointed for my hearing before a Court of
Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in the State
of Pennsylvania, 0:1 an application lor the benefit
ot the ;i<st« of thisftite providing for the relief ol
infolvest debtors, having at September term last
prefchted ii.y petition, with a schedule annexed, of
all my eflatc real, personal and riiixt, rights and
to be affigr.ed for the use of my creditors.
ALEXANDER SOMRAI.L.
"ov. 2 * - 'tf "
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, between
Eighth and Ninth llreet, formerly occupied
as the Surveyor General's Olhee-—Enquire at Ns.
■ 11, Chefnut Street,
august 10 e«jt
GEORGED AVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of informing
his friends generally, that so loon as the pre
fcnt ficknefswill admit it, le propof.-s to offer lor j
sale, the moll extensive collection at
LAW BOOKS,
he ever imported, or that was ever imported into
the United States.—*Thc lase arrivals have brought
him a aumber ot extremely valuable and f.arce
BOOKS, an 4 thsfg ejtpe&ed, will greatly add to
the quantity.
O&ober 22. codiw
To be fold or Rented,
THE fnblcriber's hotife, No. 78, Walnut
ftrcet, with a cellar and iwo stables—l • ffelfion or
the hobfe will be given early in November—the
{tables aihd cellar immediately.
GEORGE MEAD.
OJlober »4, §tf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANIiKERCHIEFS,
SearCaukers and Carradarries,
•f the lit wel and moll approved pat terns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANb FOR KALt BY
Alex. J. Miller Co.
No. 64, South Front llreet.
may 18. §
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Laguira,
CONSISTING Of
943 Fe»eg»s of Cocoa
40O€> lb. of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skint
By Willings & Francis.
No.. Elcveeth-llreet.
July 11 dtf
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut llreet Wharf,
195 casks of nails assorted
ao bales as fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 calks yellow ochre
■ 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
S™sr" r ! «>•>"' *"«•
Tenenffe do. in hoglheadsand pip
01d Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimitir% Muflinets|&c.
assorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablcsand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and presses
to puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale foaming twine
160 bundles flicat> ing paper
Nictlin £3* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
advertisement:
WHEREAS Jamks Cumuikg Is" Qo. late ot
the rity of Philadelphia, mirthauts. have
assigned over all their effeiis, rsal, personal an.!
mixed, to tha lubferibers, tor the heneßt of all
their creditors, who fl all fuhfcrlK; the fa!d aflign
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOVICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfonn
who arc indebted to, the said estate, that they are
required to mate immediate payment,of their rel
pective accounts, to the Afiigoecs, at their office,
No. 6a, Dock street, in failure whereof action
will be intlituted for the recovery of such debts as
arc not discharged accordingly.
John Travis, "J
John Waddingtnn, I a{ t-
James Taylor, f
Cornelius Cbmegysj
august 18 mwftiD
This Day is Published,
AND FOR SALE BY J. FENNO, 119, CHES N U T-$T R *£T
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and pref. st state of
French aggreflion. with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts te degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
feut year, by a Member of the Ho use of Reprefeß
tatives. _ § juneii
TEN REWARQ.
DtSERTED from my Detachment at Berden
town this day, a Marine, by name Gcorgt
Red/mm, a Native of lrclai.d about 15 years of age
fiv.' feet eight or nine inches high, dark corrplec
tion, black hair tied; blick eyes well madu- and
quarrelsome, when in liquor is fond of finging—Jiad
on a blue seaman's jackett ligfct pantaloons, cot»
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had 1 nder his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defec
ter to the Marine Camp, (ball receive tbe above
Reward.
O&ober It, .798 ? HEN , RY A '
y 5 l>t. Marines
FLOUR~FOR SALE
By tbe Subscribers*
DeMverable at any of the porta on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their stores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the pod will be attended to.
Levi Ho!lings worth & Son.
august 18. dtf
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, September M, 1798.
The public is hereby informed, that i
an Office of Deposit and Difcoont will bt opened
011 Monday next, at the house lately occupied by ;
Riuhabdit. near the Market House in I
Germantown—where the hufuvft of this InOitu- 1
tion witl be tranfaiJled during th<» continuance o t
the malignant fever now prevailing in Philadelphia
HENRY KUKL, AJJiJiant Cajti*.
September 39 4
[Volums XIV.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Confiderably more than Half Drawn.
. Draws twhc• a tyeri, every Monday <jf Tucfdai
Lli_KE TS For Sale, Seven Dollars eac.S, at
WILLIAM BLACKBW<N's tottery
and Brokers ofiiee, No. 64 South Second-llreet,
where check books are kept for examination aid
regiflering in this, City of Wafliington No. 2.
and Paterfon Lnttei ies and information where
Tickets may i>e had in mod of the Lotteiiea au.
thorifed by law in any of the States of lAe
Union.
Statk or the Whul,
Oneprizeof 10,000 dollars 10,050
ve 4.ocb 30,000
I wo a,OOO 4,oo»
Nine 1,000 i.ooo
Nineteen JO o oj
Forty-four 200 8, goo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets willfoon rife, particularly or. account of the
| five 4,cog dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
! until the laflday of drawing. -
gjf Note, the business of a Proker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office
may 24 w&stt
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure for that a laming and dreadful Dtforder
The Yellow Fever,
As -well as any oiler dangerous pu'rid fever and
ague, and other inveterate and complicated dfeafs, by
At use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE, \
WELL known am! patented ir. 4 igland,France,.
Poland, and ail the capital cities in Europe,
where tbe most astonishing cure? have been effect
ed on persons judged iKcitable Uy all phyfieian*.
In aTreatife printed in London, on the properties
of this powder, liy T. Seymour, M. D. lateCkt
mift to his Majesty, there are slated two hundred'
cases, where this mod valuable remedy has proved,
infallible, in all kind of fevers t ple.ir/Jy, bloody Jjux t
inverate rheumatisms, sciatica, apoplexy, patahjie, ytl~
low jaundice, ringworm, worms in children and in grown
p erf Ms, white*, chronical head pnd flomach aches l htpa
tick and nephretical or flone coolie, the kings evil, fcurvp
and the mofi inveterate and complicated innereal disease. k
is like wife the best preparative for tht small pox
and measles; oi the greatell utility lor young as
a^i° r c^r l*dies at the critical epoch of their
life. The efficacy of this powder in leveral of the
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
foit has been in the yellow fver lan year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by admmiftermr only
two of the said powders, and loft: not a fingie pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and
atterted by the here annexed certificates, whose ori
ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella shop %
No. IJ I, corner of Che/hut and Fourths reels, the on
ly place where these powders are to bs had, with
proper dire&ions for the use of them.—Price tw
dollars.
and certainty of this remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
person wiihirig to be provided with those powders,
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if lor a.
long time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
- ported, the secret remaining only iji the hands o£
the inventor, in Europe, and never beißg commu
nicated to, or discovered by any othsr person.
N. B. In the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der must be taken th« iecond, or at IsaA the third
day.
We the fubferibers, dnrirg the late ficknek in
t«bis city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
&Tr. for his medical afliftance, we do here
by certily, that ky a certain powder, cal'ed the
Poudre Unique, we Were perfectly rrccfvered from
the said fatal sickness, and from an experience of
the happy «ffc<£ls of the abovt mod valuable medi
ums conftder it our duty to make the fame known,
forvthe benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones,
Mylus O'Connor,
JeiTe Turner,
Christen Rebecca Dow,
Catheriii apple,
Ann Grover,
William Bills,
David Williams, carpesster,
William T D.onaldfon, mart-maker.
Mr. Mihy's well known Plaifter, for ail kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
tion, No. 131, Chcfnut ftrset.
august 8 2 awtf
FOR SALE,
SALISBURY.
ALAhGE and well improved farm, contain
upwards of twenty-five hundred acres of la
•vel fertile land, remarkably weU adapted to grass,
and every kind of grain; there arc now ova hun«
dred acres oi Timothy meadow on it, perhaps not
excelled, from which, I have cut this year between
one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tons of
hay; upwards of three hundred acres morses this
land may 1)e converted into meadow, equal to that
already made, the greater pait of which may bo
watered «c a small expence. There are on this
land, a commodious two story dwelling house, .
completely finifhed, with ten rooms and a paltage,
eight ol the rooi«3 have fire places; a ptirtico in
front, fifty feet in length, ai.d eight wide; a larga
paled garden, a well of excellent water in the yardj
also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with
sheds at tiie fides and ends, fufßcient to hold sixty
heap of black cattle, a well conttrudted liable, ful
filment to hold twenty horses; with every other
building that may be convenient or ufeful for
family; upwards of three hundred apple trees
(just beginuing to hear) of chosen grafted fruit, '
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame
fon trees, upwards of two thnufand bearing peach
trees. About one foutth of the land i&cleared, and
«nder good fence ; the paflure lands are well taken,
with red clover and other valuable gfafs. The re
mainder is in woods and generally well limbered.
The whole is well watered, having several constant
springs; and two dreams running through differ
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a small coun
try grift mill, and a saw mill. The purchaser can
have immediate pofT.ffion, and may be accommo
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with
horses, black cattle, ftieep, hogs, and every neccf
fary firming utensil. Salijbury is fitaated in ex
cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy,
is twenty-fix miles by mcafurement from Alexan
dria, about twenty miles from Potomack bridge at
the Little Falls, and not more than twenty-fiv*
from the city of Washington, and on the pad road
Irom Alexandria to Winchefler, A small part of
the purchase mosey, will be required in hand; one,
two, and three years credit will be given for the
remainder.
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will giv«
any gentlemen who apply to him an account oi th«
situation of this plan',. For farther particulars ap«
ply ta the fubferiber on the pfemifes.
SAMUEL LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax county
September 24, 1798. Uw.■ ,
• Just Arrived,
tn the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterrarran, and
now landine at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftcne.
An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
COHSISTPNC OF s"
Opium, Aloe*, Canthirides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, icc. &c.
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergahiot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flalks
Olivet, anchovies and cajera
Juniper berries
A L S o.—l:a!ian lutestring*
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas <
Remaining qn Hand,
St. Ci'oix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Win» if the firft q elity
james yard.
• November 3 5
JAMES & RICHARD SMI i H,
HAVE this day returned from the co.untry to
their STORE, No, 54, Soiith- Front street,
ww re they hEve for fa'.e, as ulual, a large and ge
r;«ral assortment of European and Eafl-lrdla
GOODS,
mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different velfels, from Ha nburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
fheir Customers by applying will find tlmoft
every article generally import.d, and at as bw
prices for caQi or credit,as th-jy can be had else
where.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be f< Id by the cafe only.
hia, Nov. i, 1798. dtf
1 he Subscribers
HAVIt JUST RfcCJIVtD A" INVOICP. OF f.
Choice Chcfhire &?Double Gloucester
CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.}
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various nzes, per (he Jane, from London.
Thcy~have also for Sale,
200 Calks of Refined Salt-Petre, 1
ANQ A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. & Samuel IV. F't/htr.
November r dtf
JAMAICA RUM, !
A Cargo now landing at SouthJfreet wharf, (
FOR SALE BY <
PET,EIi BLIGHT,
Apply at. Stores on the Wharf, !
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAJ.E, I
BRANDY, ift and 4th proof
Madeira and Port Wl{4E3, &c. &c. 1
. N r ""- ' dtf
IMP O R T E D,
AND ro BF SO! I> BY
CHARLES WHARTON,
. [At his House, No. x 36, South Second Street.J
Old Lilboji Wine,
Of thefirft quality, in pipes and quarter calks- 1
I ea China, afiorted in boxes. 1
Hyson p
Hyson skin, and > -TEAS. h
Young Hyton ) h
India Bandanna and Chopah Ronial Silk Hand- e
kerchiefs.
r ajikrtns *'
Bla. k Sattin *
Blai k and coloured-Lutefirings
Black (owing Silk
Garden Fanus, —Siik Umbrellas, &c. &c. *
November 5 v
Cook Wanted.
WAN TED, by a small regular family, a wo- 0
man conk, who is a thorough millrefs Of ii
her hufinefs and can produce faristsdlory rccom- 11
mendation. Any perftn answering the above h
dofcription, will meet with conllant emp!®y and «
generous wages. Application to be maae at th« tl
office of this gazette. b
so f3ve trouble, 110 Irift woman need apply t:
noT - 6 . 3t ir
FOR'SALE, ~~~ J
AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an intercft.ng Work, ia
French, entitled a of al
'l'he Adminiflration of the 'French
Finances,
DURING THE YEJR , 79 «. 1
Also, An Hiftoriral and Political View of the -*
Adininiftration of the French Republic, during *
\ear 1797, of the causes which produc- 0I
cd the
1
Revolution of the qth September— ti
■And of the rcfults of that Revolution, fp
PRICE. I r>OLLAR EACH.
p I hefe two political trails, are from the pen w
of the* celebrated <!'lvernois,and contain a thou- in
(and iulercfling disclosures ol the folly, venality di
and profligacy of the different Usurpers who th
have reign*d in France during the latter flages 01
o 1 the horrible Revolution how pending in that * n
lltiferablc and depraved country.
Nov 3 . x g,
y eli
Printing Work, "
Of Every Kind, te
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST f
NOTICE, •]
At the Office of the Gazette of the an
United States, pr
OA- ' *• dtf. th
ALL PERSONS having any legal demand* a
ga.uft the estate of WMiam P c ,li„, dece f«d F°
Ul- of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keener, are
rcquefled to furnifli their accounts properly au- ?'
thenticated, and all ptrfons indebted to said estate a
are r.-quelled to make payment to the fubfenber in •
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr. ,u
October 31ft, 1798. ? r '
female Education. ~
James A. Neal's School, rh
for thf tuition of
rOUNG LADIES, £2
Will re-commence on Monday, the 12th of *1 UI
Novemler, at bis School Room, No. 28, Fr!
Carter' 4 1/ley. ' Gc
cO- The Evening School d ir
IVHI he opened, as usual, at the Jame tine <
and place. coii
November 3 eod\t
L A~M r B L A C K. ~
A quantity of Lanpblitk was left during the
I ever, at the Oflice of the Gazeue of the Unit
ed States,—Cippoled through miltake.' Ifce C *u
«wne k -is to and take it away. i„v
Nov. 3. / <
Samuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Price,
snf * No. 31 CHI-SNVT SntEKT,
Jtre now opening a very extensive njfortment of
D RT GO U D S,
JS, SuHahlc to the prtftdt fcafon,
- Which they have just rece ved per
nna, Ships Otiego & Independence,
(vifi Nsiu Tori) from LONDON>
Ho, per (hips William Penn Be Amiable from
London, and (hips Sally ard Thomas from
Liverpool,
Which they will fell on very low terms for
cqfh or approved notes, viz.
Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
cloihs licoes
Plain & fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz
Plain and flriped cafli furnitures,
feefe* \ very large quaßtiry of 1
Swai'fdowns chir.iz.es
Rose an 3 diifßll blanlce s .'tirrle and chintz %aw!s j
" Red aiisivltllbw flarrA 1; Lir,*n md leuvn pocket |
Welch flaripclc I ar.dkerchiefs
i 3 C.ill cts and c*rj v # g Jahiek' hair Ihswls ]
J«annett=» tk taVoy cord*, a very large assortment of
Y ® Velveteens<k vdveretts ribbfimls «
I Thickfett? 3ririfliplain checked,(lri
»e CiUlimancoes, durante & pedand muf
jea'• * lins of all descriptions j
Silk, cotton, and worfteii olored bordered lhawls, j
ing, hose a great variety
.on- Cotton, callicoe, & twist 5-4 aj»d 6-4 eo.njeverams 1
checks and betr-dleea (
noft Dimiffes India book«Sc jaconet muf j
Idw 3 4 and 7-8 dowlafs lins
'lfe- Damafh table linen Laces and edging® |
4-4 and 6-4 Black aryi patent lace
», a Irish line-« Lace v.iis Mid figured ■
Ginghams cloak i
its Bandannoes Pulongs andf-ttins
A very large quantity of and farfanm
>*'iik modes
/ And a variety of other articles.
Cr Nf ' v tu.th fi.im t
j -■ Just Imported,
J Irop «a..00n, double foiti/ied, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
on. pOttuders.
Carronades, WooNvish proof, with carriages, &c.-~
cpmpfcte— Hi 18 an<l 14 pounders,
e, Cannon powdor in Jtegs of each (
Round, double-headed, and c*rtni(H'r (hot
Patent fheathiijg copper, bright, affortcd 18, 20, °
,31, 14, 16 and tS or per foot, (heets 48
I r - by 14 inches, fuitalli for v.ffels from lot, to"
loco tons ti
* Copper nails, bolts and fplkes
lioarding Pikes,
r f> Common cutlaJTcs
Gunners (lores ps all kinds
Tin-places No I—l-3 cross bnes
I'atcnt (hot in casks of jewt. each S
London porter and brown fteut, jn calks of 7 doz.
bottled. .
Earthen ware ia crates, assorted
For Sale by it,
51MC»J WALKER, ol
Pine near sth street. h;
Oflober 19. eo t f. ti;
. Forty Dollars Reward P
•J FOR APPREHENDING
. A GENTLEMAN NEGRO, F
C - namc Oeorge. or Oeoroe Parker, the
-LJ pro; eny of the fubfcrilier, who has thought -
pro, er on the night of the mfi inft. to elops from
his master without any provocation or ju> cause ;
he was formerly the property of Butler',
esq. und lived a considerable time with T
Potten S tr,whbkept tavern in Fr«it rickbnrg,hiving 1"
leen much company and travelled with fe\-eral Ft
gea Lmcß througti dififeTrent parti of ti is (late, he
is much known. It is therefore conjeiiurej he ~
»nl pulh forfome of the northern cities or totfiis
he his discovered an r.verfion toplan tation work, ri 1
though he ma? perkap, have crossed the ridge t L
where hr has i>-lbnging to major Busier. _
Thisiellow is about five feet seven inchu high,
well proportioned and walks ailive and hrilk, his
0- countenance i» open and agreeab e enoughs when
of in good humour ; he can hardly be fgrpaft in ; s
« (hrewdnufs, and is a very a pable waiting-man,
ve house servant, barber, &c To describe his drtfs
»d would be ufelef»,as he poWeffed a variety of clothes,
h« thrugh when drefled lately, he wore a green coat
bound with white ferreting and spotted jacket and of
trecches. Whpcver brings him home or secures
_ » S° a ) in this or any other state the said slave, so t0
that I may get him again, (hall have the above re- \\
ward - ALF.XANBER VASS.
Fa'mouth. 0.3.23, <798.
ia N. B—Ma>er« of v-iTel> and Stage Drivers ' -
are requested to beware of fufTering said fellow to
, impole on them by aflifting his escape. A. I' C
" November 3 w&f. 4 w .
n —— —— -I is:
A French Classical Mathematical tei
SCHOOL. Cc
\X7" ILL hc °P ened on Mon 'iay thei2d. instant
s V V at that large conflnodious room formerly
occupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's Alley, No i;
nearly opposite the City Tavcra; undet.the dire'-'
tipn ef Meffrs.Smithand Chandler both of libe- frQ
ral education, and long taperienced in their re- Co
I. fpeflive profeffions— As they intend under, the
patronage of a discerning pubUc, permanently ]
to eftablilh themfelvM in this undertaking, their
n whole study and attentipn will be d.-voted to the
J- imprcvement «f their pupils—Thcfe will be
y ducted upon the latest an,! most approved plans,
0 through a complete course of acaiemical flu lie, A
rs or those parts only that may be pointed out, as more r
lt immedia;ely adapted to thcirpariicularviews in life D °
—Certain portions of their time will he afligned for En '
geography .hiftory,extrafls, composition, and de
_ elapaations in French and Englilh, in order to form >
early habits of writing and speaking with proi.ri-
ety—ViCts from parents « B d lkerary charters
tending to excue a spirit of will be'
gratefully r.ceivcd. The hours of study are from
9 to 12 A. M. and from 2 to j P. M- A
They offer to tranflatethe Englifc.Frencb.Spanift
and Portuguese languages; and to draw in their «
proe«r modes and stile, all kinds of writing, wh«-
ther legal, coisnurcial, or epistolary.
Ihe firlt Monday in November, they also pro
pose to open an ov.»iing school for French, book- (
j ** e P in K. furveyiitg and navigation, of which they
. " ave a P.ra<Sical as well theoretical koowltdo-e.
5 t'j num f he '' of f«nch gentlemen will attend, the
3 ""dents of their Imgn.ge, by continually converf- »
ing with them, as well as their teachers, will ac- /\
quire, along with the principle., a facility of ex
prcflion. c °n'
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS : .Lie
Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont < J U "
- l ' h#n " eurd f P'*T en "-M-M.l« Francois, qnil.fc , J ,
proponent d etablir une Academic en Norri. alley lor
No. 15 ; prelque Vb-a-vi, ]» B.urft ; dans la- (
f quelle on enfeigreri la lahgue I.atine, Angloifc et ~
, rrancaife : 1 Anthmetique, la tenue des livrts, la
Oeographie c.. les Mathcmatiquej. Q,
0:i fait ai (ti toutes forte, de traduflions dansle, O
dites langiie,;1 « d.nne lecons chez les particuliers. is o
Qu on ( addreffe a 1 hotel de Mr. Vallette au T A
com 4fme rue et Cherry alley. La a
Oitoler 17. . -
' cod tf Cha
" ~L 1!
THE house, No. 7 S, North Se- ~
?fc" 1 ?' W '! H ° r a ft ore and liable— , C
I « gC and conv ™' e "t 5 enqu.rc of the
John L.tle, No. 4 c, North fiith street. pre)
Pflober i - w&fi tf Too,
V
nd Smith & Rodman, «•_
No. 45, South Front flreet,-
, , Have jujl receivedper the William Penn, and
]zuc,from Lchdon, Di*
fronC LirF.ivooL,- and Kingston,
from Hull,
ler A LARGE B GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE
Plain, twills and striped Crapes
CoatingK Plain&ftnDed Wildbores
Fine white and red Welsh Worhtd,Yam 3 Gotten
for Flannels Ho!e
Do. yellow an4fcar!et do. Mfn * nd 9°y« Woollen
Superfine and low price*! v f' t,er,s
5-4, ---i, cloth, o»;7-S b'cach'a Irish Dow
all colors ' a^
Plain* and HafcthicV* 3 4 brown 1,.(h Linen
Forest and Un.ur Ctoh. anri Ir "
Green and KcU Druiirrv 1 ' ' S n
T _ u , 1 • , Haxcn 6c low Ozna
v's n ' ' Z= / J I 1 in bales
Do. 5-4, 6-4,
• Red A £ rcc: ' 15 '•>> ng4-.; 7 .8 and ya:d -wide Inib
Swani lo\vr.»<s* i oilanert- Linens
Roft*, Point hui i.'u!7il. Print* d Callicors Sc Chin
°* Blankets j 12P»
Superfine London Ca(Ti Printed Linen and bor^
n ~ meres of the newel), anu dn'd Handkerchiefs
.most fafliio«i:il>K; colors jCnttor.3c >r Checks
5 Low prj.| d York--vire do Thread hdginßs 6? Laces
ls > Plain and striped B«vcrGlov«
mancocs ;P».s in <m»!l c»fo
»» Joar.SpinmHgs &DuwntJ^' 1 1 »P« jf.Bobbitu
Ra't.nt tts ic Sh«l ooiis i ™*to,duroy,
if. vt 1 r< ' • r Hunting and fancy Cord-
Norw.ch Canulen, for (Vclvt[ , 5 3nd V ,,J lten , ,
Uoaks | UUck and olive Coiton- ]
flombazats and Biarh) a j es
ed Wi;h a variety o.'other Article* on baud, for ■
sale on the inaft reifoiial.lt teim9 for cash ]
err tiie usual credit.
Nov. 6 tu,th&fa,tf j
ROBERT SMITH & Co. 1
Have returned to the City, and are now open- ,
ing at their Store, No 58, So. Front-Jlreet, '
,f A large and General ■ c
</ ASSORTMENT OF GOODS,* a
Suitable to the Season,
c -~~ Which they have just received per the late ,
arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool End
G'rafgow (yla New York) and will dispose '
of on very lov term 1 ! for Cash or short credit. t
° 8 * TO BE LEI, r
to" A House in Fourth-ltreet, next door to d
to the Isdian Queen —enquire as above. ii
novemUer 6 414t si
EDUCATION. ~ J|
' # a\
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School, v
*■ IN CHURCH ALLEY,
Id open aptin, for inffruilmg Girl* in Reading, q
Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, ..
including the Elements of Geometry, and the use
of the Globes.—trom the great encouragement he
has hitherto received, he refpe&fully solicits a con
tinuance of the favours of his Friends and tht W
Public. _
#
cj' An Evening School, oi
For BOY S—Kept the fame place. m
c II mj 6th, .;8 2aw4w p<
; ; r. taylor; *■
; MUSIC PRQFESSOR, - ; n
, NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREKT,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public thjl
he continues to teach Ladies the Piano
1 Forte as usual. ot
' NfiV - 6- tuth.a Cy
s *#* Ihe Oflsces i of Government
, are to be removed from Trenton to yc
• ori ' huriday next. cc
• The Custom House is re- ° v
> moved from Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the ui'ual place.
' November 2 ,
s■ 3 '
insurance office t >
i of the State of Pennsylvania is removed
> to (outh-eaft corner of Second* and
- Walnut streets. p ;
. Nov " 5* ' diw ™
The Insurance Office of «!
SHOEMAKER BERRETT,
is again opened at no. i 9 north Water flreet—At
"ni.ince w >n also be given at their room at the em
Coffee-honfe asufaal, from li 'till 2 o'ebefc. th
. • iim ° ! s i r " B _d6t
"removal. mc
THE SUBSCRIBERS haveremov«d their Office Y O .
from the corner of Eleventh Street, to their former Cel
Counting House, N.;. tI . Penn Srrrrt
Millings & Francis. t ' lt
November 3 of
1 — 1 ate
TO BE LET
' And immediate p'.ffejfion gi ven , in
A C M , \ en „ f ;,t - Wt - n h '««fe, St l
JL 1l No. 115, flreet, lately occupied V v* ext
Do&or Wiftar, with coach house and SaWe - tor
Enquire of IVILI.IAM SHE. IFF. L
N No - 16&, High street. f
N< v - • . dtf F<=
— 1 t'vii
10 Be Let, En
And immediate pofjfion Given, and
Three Story Brick House
-iX wrth convenient back buildings, fitiuted onl
ft± n °p hWeflC ° rnerof ThWand Walnut a£ t !
streets. For terms apply .„ due
Dr. THOMAS PARKE. '
Ofloher in N °" 20 ' S ° U,h Fourth Street, con
— — dtf w ;d
TO BE RENTED '°F
a i {tcrZ edia \ poMtonT f hi
A ; tllr « story BRICK HOUSF 8
situate in Walnut-ltreer— The rooms irl Pro
rm!ZJ', r7J °^ ri : , ' e - frnm which..and mit
' We situation hi a Public & "
quire of BENy arra
V AU^° Houle, in Ta'y-
Oaok «*<>- 3tawiw exp
notice.
Q AMUEL RICHARDET 1 , informs the GentU-
O that the EXCHANGE 1 .
T i°\r ""P' on < and the CITY
■ T i { G <ntlemen and Tnveller. COn
Last -pru* added an adaition of twelve Bed thal
Chambers to the fide building, which makes it the
perfealy convenient. ,
november 6 1
taw < 4
c? The Office of enc
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
prefunt at the State House i n the Court 'Z
room. ng g m "'
JS - ture
Commumcattott*
, and Citizens tif Amtma,
ias TO menaces of vengeance, on the part
of the French regency, have fuccerded pro-'
leluons of peace But their praftice Hill
OF evince* the spirit of plaoder tfrid (imina
tion; and, while their prafti e-thus falfifies
their profeffuwa, you have palpable demon
it ration of tluir perfidy.
[bores j<J% rten by their cond.lA, is un
(Mtcn q^lf'OU^.yjud.
This rijle, indeed, may I
be ofFenfive to knaves ; but to honest men
.oile.. it .sprec.W Applying it. therefore, t<y
Dow- L re & ents . yo» mav he assured,
that no reverence for public faith, no fc.i
„en liberality, no deference for your
" 1:31. u.il rights, no abhorrence of rapi-ie,
X i,a. no cony;ai. !B of jjulfice, has prcdsceU the
in thf ir language,
iirfus Can you, with all your sagacity, be
lnlh wea!i enough to believe that, bccaiife they '
:hir,. ha 7 van '? d t!ieir call of fty!e, they hare j
ceased to be avaricious, arrogant, unprih
bor. cipled ? Words cost them n»thing: these, !
leeks t ' ie,e '° re ' these alone, they g-ive with
Laces P'ofuficni Such t's their national friend,'hip ■
—the si iendfhip of the robber, who boaljs i
ot his generosity and advances a claim of
iroys S rat ' tl 'de because he does not commit mur
:ord. der - But have you ve!learn that the cut
ens tm-oat can pretend to humanity when he be
"on- lieves the pretence will fasiitate his projeftsf [
Political duplicity and perfidy are ftrata
.for gems of the French warfare. Hence, it be- "
hoves you to mark well their language of
tf pretended peace. Does it, in a single in- '
_ fiance, propose a fpecific redress of your c
wrongs? On the contrary, does not the u
ten- w,l °' e .coofift of bllenfatrduS profeflions and „
et, g , encral declarations ? Profeflion, and de- f
clarations which pledge them to nothing, '
and which prove nothing except their pur
pouea of fedudion ?
late . T l heir ! an S'?»ge. like their government, a
isnd has been 111 3 revolutionary Itate, and is me- r
)ofe tamorphofed as suits their rapacity or ambi- v
lit. tioo. Thus, kyp„ce, ao applied to A me- r
nca they mean a state of tKing. effentiallv J r!
to dittefent from what homeft men like your o
lelves would understand by the fame expref r
fion. You, doubtless, would attach to it t
the idea of the enjoymint of your mtional /
"iri' " ert y>f ov "'"3 nt y a "d independence
alfolute and unlimited as well in matters of go- i
vernment as of commerce."
They, hp • ever, mean by it such a (late '
•'si of things as tl.ty allow to their miserable :
Jk Pr ovinccs a state of things which would Z
he S' ve 'hem 'he preponderance in your coun- a.
an- cils, the control of your elections, the nc
th« mination .of your President, the appoint
ment of your public minilters, the direQion W i
of your forces, the monopoly of your com- its
ce , merce, the command of your weal h—a n il
peace in which they may rob and figVt you ( a
at-pleafure while you mull submit with 'pa- t j t
tience a peace which, whenever they order, co
involves you in a war with the reft of the l v
lu 4 «orld—a peace which in its conCfqHences, t iv
no "r 1 °" ly , ?* y our property, but robs you tin
ot your honor,' of your conllitution. your co
_ '>" ems of education, your domdtic fecuri- tin
at l J' ur mo . Fii ' s » your religious liberty. a? c
. Suckfe thi? PEACE which they would allow f n f
you. If luch be the peace y<>u would ac- r t |
fubmit to the French Divan! j„
own them for your masters! but renounce mc
.J 'orevcr the name of Americans ! fk;
ALFRED.. nO ,
del
_ FRENCH FINANCES. in
The following report was made in the month of ti'>
, t( JunelaJl ( i Prairial.) 1 me
Council of Fiive Hundred, ran
" Villers in the name of the convnittee of rcv
Finance, answered the several objeftioas tiol
made against his report, the objeft of which mel
_ is to cover a deficit of 92 millions in the re- f P"
ceipts for the 6th year, which have been ° l,e
( ' fixed at 616 millions. ges
t. " rhe legislature said Villers,ought to be f ' e
he employed ahout the finances but once a year, thal
that is, when it is neceflary to fee the re- °°. n
_ ceipts and expenditures—after that nothing !ri ' n
more is to te done and I would not address 1
ce you now on the fubjed, if the promised re- cou
er ceipts had produced the expefted amount, f" 1
Here ] OTuft intorm the council, that lla 7;
there will be redudlion* in the epxenditure* rcv
of the year 7, but it is impossible to oper- Lol
- ate any iii the prefeut year. wht
" Of all the objeds ><f taxation fpecified P'P
in the law of the 9th Vendemaire la It (30th
e, -Stptember f797>) I know but of one which
y exceeds the presumed produd, it is the cus
toms. It wits supposed they would produce car
t 8 millions, it is now certain that they have lctr "
produced 12,' but it must be obterved, that
_ this increase, arifiog frw.Ti tht seizure of
English goods, is onlv momentary f
and cannot be expe&ed to continue. virn
c " The Stamps fixed at 16 millions, will
d only produae 15 ; and the regiltering of t,ur
t a&sajid deeds," which was expected to pro- t!|C
duce 71 millions, w!H hardly bring 61. f° rt
" The measures now proposed by your or ' l
:. committee are still infuffin'ent, tince they of 1
will only produce 18 millions, and we have tioß
to provide for a deficiency of 62 millions. to
These measures consist oaly <if modification*
j of an exilting law, and that others .'ill te tlon
e proposed to you successively by your ccm- to 11
1 mittee. p rt
We yet have near 400,000 men under Wlt '
arras, whole pay amount* to three million* th e n
per decade, which makr# 108 millions per !Ia PP
annum ; y o p are acqualntA with the other co "'i
expenditures of the republic. To def-ay all «*•
- theie expence* the treaCury has rot received
200 millions lince the llt of latl Vendimaire Ixl
- (2 2d Sept. 1.797.) , well
r "Although the peace is assured on the m " l '
coDtmtnt, yet we ought not to diffrmble toil
j at the expence will remain the fame while utiv '
t t e negociatioß* at Rafladt continue, and Vlew
« a " C "° W f? , Ur mo[lth «- t0 M
( j has only to de- " au d '
f w'eif against the French republic, has im pc
■=, !,< r -f,* PtDd,tU?tt for lhe curr «t year («'r 1
t millions, Inowafk, whether 616 the ,
mil. 10ns are too large a sum for the expend;. »."«
turwof the republic during the fsme 'fpacc
" of time I'' [ltie« never was a niore i ls i,
bie falrtiood.J •
- He •more j'lliat the report b« deflatedK
articles. '
part Choilet a.id feveial other members »'
P["' et l to a precipitate discussion. 'i'h "
itill ntived for a recommitment of the whoL
bna- fubjefi, and to adjou n the business until
.l ies after the committee should have reported».
non- new, and their report (hail have been pub.
lifbed, —.Agreed - .
: un
may —1
men GEORGIA SAHSCULOTT/SM '
> tor
r f d > AUGUSTA, Oel. 20.
leu- *
rotir OBober Term, 1798.
rhe f' or'tlxprtfenHvMs of tie Grand
the Jury of the county of JcfcrJbn.
be Y E present as a pubKc nulfanee the Au
gu.la Southern Ceatiael, and as a p u y.'
, J r*rr- the ed, ' tor and
irih- fullering to be inferred therein, won*
mous pieces agamft the chief Magnate J
' h " | Su, r- A man whose abiliiief on
4> b rr k ™ tSl '—' <»'2
alts 1 of his fellow citizens ; whose fcrvicea
of h '' ve r <lo ." e honour to his country, and on
whole integrity r. fl d J h "
" n'oft perfect reliance. Moreover f„ I r
be" t r 'k US F ubl ' cations t., he intended to" '
take away the confidence of the peoule i.,
ll the government of our country f 2h c b
when avowed publications, much
of n y"' o ; lS £" b b!er,, are permitted t . do °
■ is ro longer the liberty, but the licentious
our ?■! ° f tHe prffs " we conceive t£
the £"JP riB * cr ,0 J»"VB been tantalizing the in
|i>d habitants of this county, apd inciting the
de public in general, when he impressed the
late legislature with an idea that he im,
ur! 10 o al ;! i,h a f i < b t of Louifviil".
Oil the oath of Valentine Hatcher—
nt, ft, 2 .-' W a P re / ont 'r MaUhiaß D « :La for
J fteol.ng a steer from Jean Dawkins.
bi. W R ? iVC f* J° h " Gamble,
,e- p, c , W m . M . Gabee,
John Co wart, Wm.'Hardwick.
jdVin Scott, W m M'Dowel),
ef * uT" 1 W00d • M - S^lman.
it fV r'fu"' J efft Paulert,
L John Cobbs, TanH T v
Jofiah M. Sterett. C *
Z . [T |! e f " 0 taken from the origin.
>le | ioi r S a r^ C V. ffi u y t0 add ,hat ,he j
ild ,re L S en uniforml y diftinguith
;;
» (.. ,i 7 c.lUhen.) of
V uo.isof that wretched nation towards^;,
■ • f V"? 5 none, however but those coward
-6 \ y . a " d f > c mmin ß democrats, who, from mo
. tives of .ear only have given symptoms of
! f'. r P o '""' c onversion, or those brave ja
; '° b ' n3 W ' lo ke Pt a sullen silence, aid
- thus preserved their lans-c.lotte virtue and
dignity unconum.nstetf, conttmpiate thtle
epiltlei of Talleyrand P, rigor J,
[that traitor to his God and his country H
• in any other point of view than as a COm
• mon manoeuvre of revolutionary diplomatic
• This is certainly the cafe, but it is
not all ;-it Js the iignal for vengeance and
deltmotion to Amerjca, that moment it is
in their power. The lang.uge of concilia.
,/ when ceming from the new govern
ment of France, invariably covers the inoft
rancourous hatred and the mod determined
f revenge, jull as their denunciatious of na
s tional piimlhmen; and annihilation arj
I, mere bugbears—They calculate in the true
pln ? ° Vlllain y a,| d duplicity, that in the
, one mftance they will have all the advanta
ges which a carelcfs security on the pait of
. tl;e devoted can on the other,
, that thc y ma y obtain by threats what is in.
. convenient to be attempted by aflion Exa
f ™ n£ J'l rd P ed ' VC P r ®feffions of friend.
, ih.p and fraternity to the several uuhappy
. countries they have fwallowtd up, and this
principle will be found invariably to govern •
; nay, dtfcend to the Fnlivldual vidimf of the
j aai ityß be found, that neither
. Louis X/I, Bnffot, Dantoti nor any o»e
who were fufpeded of possessing the lead
p pular influence, ever received the final
ttroke of the guillotine but under the strong.
, e t assurances of mercy and fonn\enefr.
Fr m any hojlile attacks; we have little to
, tear; b.u. French. fri ■ndjhip a nd fra
ternity, Gob defend us ! . J
1 hocion tbc^Xonngtn.
The Secretary at War's letter to the go
vernor, seems to be adduced by way of
fanflion to our State Conflitution—hence
there mult be fume doubt in the~ breast of
t.,e executive of its being well calculated
for tne happtnefs of the people of Georgia,
or he would rettfatiified with tbe opinion
of thole whom iu governs ; the publica
tion of the before menliatied letter ought
to induce aifculSons of what may be ooi*
hatred ilie inlercjltng parts of our co iftitu
tion. that the commuijity may be enabled
to understand, h- ; w an attempt to rob ont
P rt o the citizccis <?f their propefty,
Witl o'ut even advantaging any other part of
their, can conduce either to ihc interns or
Dappiruft "f Georgjans—«Jfo |/bw far it ie
, coniiSer.t with rights iktcv before question
ed, to change the channel of conventional
elections and convert the legislature into a
f°dy capable of framing fundamental as
well as incidental laws ;—to. frarch for the
mot.ves qf making this change, as well it
to l .veltigate its true operation as to exec
utive influence, whether such were the
Views df the present governor, or not
U.;s b*pp y conliitution generally,
aud finally to endeavor to afemain in what
important points i t difters from that copy
(or rather urinal) which was fabricated in
>-e c uniy of Chatham previous to the
m.-etn.g ot the conve.,tion.
MENTOR.Hate foreign jSetus*
Traiiflated for the True American.
HAMBURG, August 29.
The Pruflian Minilter, Mr. Shultz, has
beei) mfulted in this city in open day, and
in the Itreet.
Two young Merchants, barred his pas.
sage even at hn own door with their horses.
The Pruflian ambassador grew angry ; upon
which oneof these gentlemen threatened him
with his whip. Some one obferyed to him
that lie (houli take care wh it he did, as he
was quarrelling with the ambassador of the
King of Prussia. But he replied in an in
trepid and careless manner that he did not
care for the ambassador of the king of Prufiia
and used iufulting to mi.
Mr. Shultz has taken -ip the affair very
seriously ; and preferred his complaint with
much vehemence. It is even asserted he
has given in his resignation to the Senate of
Hamburg.
RIGA, (RuffiaJ Auntft 20.
In virtue of the ferer;- orders of hi 3 Ma
jelly. to prohibit the entry of foreigners in
to iliis country, an Englilh vessel having on
botird E"glilh merchants and French emi
grants fpom England, was '.lopped until per.
miflbn is received from Pctertburg to admit
her. She has been live days at anchor in
the gnlph of Livonia, some diltance from
our road. The emigrants declare themfeives
belonging to the pretender, for whom they
have difuatches ; but they will have to wait
as well as the other?. The commandant of
kiea has not been fotry t» find this oppor
tunity of paying them, for the favors which
the EVnperbr. has lavilhed ujiou the emi
grants. fuicc an afyltim has been granted
them in his dates.
In general the natives of the country are
the reception which has been gi
ven the emigrants. Another kind of jta
loufy that concurs to make them disliked is,
that which they have caused the hulbands
to entertain of their wives.
Since the Pretender ha* established his
•onrt at Mittau, our court ladies are be
come ma'ie'fcpquctiifh ; and. peihaps, more
amiable also ; a d this is what the men can
not bear. Several of _ our rich heireffss
have gone, so far as to prefer the indigent ga
lantry of these refugee chevaliers to the la
vage opulence of the natives of the coun
try. Among the marriages which have ta
ken place, we particularly remark that of
the Cl mte de Beaumont, who, without any
other merit, brought at his fortune only arf
elegant figure, and uncommonly seducing
manners.
It is said th3t the daughter of the gover
nor.of Kiow, is to be-married to M. De
Cazales, so well known by the part which
he plaVed in France at the commencement
of the revolution.
It is however true that the partiality of
our ladies for the French is a little over ;
and whether from the incorltancy natural
to the sex, or, that difgult had really fjc
ceedrd the amiability of their lov. r, they
seem more ihy of them. The Emperor,
more constant in his taste, contin-ies to load
and his court with favours.
The peofrte murmur. But he, whose only
aim is by this conduit to people his vail <■£,
tates, procures them every means of ellab
lifhing themselves. 1 here is t=o emigrant,
of a rcafonaWe age, recommended by the
French chief", who lias not obtained a
quantity of land, the produce of which is
more thau-fufficient to supply all his wants.
The remainder of the corps of Conde is
•xpefted here. This army whicfi has pre
served only its name, since its entry into the
Ruffian territory, for the purpose of main- •
taining a military jurif.iiftion over its mem
bers, is decreasing as fall as they can build
habitations. The emperor views them as
so many farmers ; and the inviting of .uhem
to hi* Empire vrts onty a political fpecula
jr
PARIS, September 2.
Ex(raft of a letter from Malaga, dated
Augufl 10, 1798
We learn a piece of intelligence which
will appear somewhat strange to you, and
will no doubt give room for some warm dis
cussion between vour government arid ours.
(hips failed fiom our port to
get cargoe* of leaf Tobacco j where? Even
in the port of Gibraltar : and for whom ?
Even for the king of Spain who wants it
for his works at Seville. Upon their return ■
(from Gibraltar !) a French privateer((lossp s s 1
them, finds them furnilhed. with |
from the Englilh Governor a>*d condufts
them to Alceziras. That is to fay, that ■
three veff-Is are aboat to be fold in
a port of their nation by one of their allies. I
: B*\t you wili alk ui: Is the property prov- ]
ed to be English ? "Are the papers of these
vefiVls justly fufpefted ?" " I 3 the commu- <
location with an- enemy's port fufficienUy 1
clear. Yes ; but we (hall reply : " How I
will you not fuffer us to import lawful mer' 1
chandiz from wherever we can find it, and
above all .n a port in wh ch it abour.ds, in a 1
port which lies between those who buy and I
those whoaretoconfumeit; Will y 0 „ hin- 1
der your ally from supplying his manufac 1
tures, and thus drain the source of one of
ins principal revenues. The qucftioHs will ,
be found knotty, and I fear may produce >
evil confcqucnccs.
St. ILDEFONSO, (tSpainJ Aug. 47,
The events of which the of Jovel- i
laiiM wa, the prelude are (Wellivrlv disclosing ,
.»> )?• i , x "' m,ftfr three days
at M.Jri.l .and frt o«< ... ,be ijd „f this month
t r thr Trd.o waters, whence he will proceed to ,
Oyon, the place fixed by the King for hi, reli 1
dence. We are rt«W at the period of Ottra- '
cilm.
Thirteen diftinguiftied perfanages, the great
er part general officers, have j,,fi bee* * x ., cd
from the capital and from th, ce.irt Vald-,
andNWti, t.. General., t0 JZ i
aga, the other to Pampelmie ; the of
infintryi. Panl j, to of
, hno' NTa'reeiut r > Sa'r; Sehaftian ;
• Caftaganos, ro B-*0 Cjgif'Ati.ti Ga'icia ;
Vallejo, to Rirceiorij.; t'-e yu-.inriukede Cril
lon to Soc. Iris not yet
known who has inflated these, rigorous mea
sures. There is another fe!e&j'">n from the
court, bat in a manner k'fs painful, 'of three
grandees of Spain, whnfe absence is ihnught to
be more ufeful thaji their presence. The king
having just giv?n them d
the dukeof Offm to_V|tnna ; the ruke del-
Ptrque to Pete-fburgh ; the duke d'Uceda, to
Lifiion ; ' ther changes are expefted. We are
yn every refpeA in J violent crisis, the rtfult of
1 whiefi cannot he fo r efee». The embaffador of
the French Republican here permanently.
The Grind Inqmlitor who is thought to be
one of the principal atftors in these alarming
scenes, is himfelfmenacedastheviiftim of them.
It i« much s'jeflinned whether he will not be
sent to his arch bilhoprick <\( Burge*. His fuc
telT.>r will prrfbably be Mufguiz her majesty's
confclTnr, and arcording to the known charac
ter of this prelate, the fbidle.l precautions may
he expefled. The health of the minifler Sca
vedra, alternately eives =hope< and fears. He
is now unwell. It is said that the person nam
ed tn supply his place, has been mortified by
the fore : gn mmifters refufing to confer with
hin) j but wedo not venture to speak pofitive
>y
The Ami des Loix, (for we ftlll receive it)
wjs not well informed when it said that citizen
Tnifrnet was daily expeited at Paris. It is cer
tain that he is.llill Madrid, and not disposed to
leave it. •
* Note of the Editor. This is tb? famt per
son rvho ipith permission of the Direßory, ac
companied ?/ner I ,V f -> "rrr. , during the Campaign
of tb: year in the ct!el*"it?d ntreat from
Ba-varia-
UMMMnMB.- MMBHMUMUK
BOSTON, Oftobtr 31.
Yc-fterday, the natai day of the beloved
I Citizen who prefixes over the mfercfts and
; honor of the United States ; >s c iebra'cri
1 in this town, with unufui! marks of high
• refpeiS, veneration and ei-leem. To trace
the numerous feftiTionials, which individual
patriotism exhibited, would occupy a great
part of our paper -w<* mult therefore notice
those only of a more general afpeft.
I In the m rning. at noon, and at funfet
ting, the ringing of all ihe bells, the firing
of can mil, found us martial mulic, a
vvakened and kept alive, the molt grateful
feelings.
The Theatre was uncommonly crotided,
last evening. « Adams and Eiberty," was
fuig and encored ; as well as the " Green-"
Mountain Farmer." His Excellency the
Governor, accompanied by Major General
Elliot, and suite, and the Sheriff of Nor
folk, honored the performances with their
presence —The Columbian Mufeura was
handsomely illuminated.
An elegant entertainment was given at
Concert-Hall, at which were present, His
Excellency the Governor ; His Honor the
Lieutenant Governor ; the President of the i
Senate, and Speaiker of the House of Re
presentatives ; Judges of the Federal Court,
and the Supreme Judicial Courts ; Members
of Congress, and ot the State Legifiature ;
Reverend Clergy ; Foreign Consuls; OAS
cers of the Army and Navy, and other dif
tihguilhed characters. The following were
the toad* given :
1. The rh'irtieth of Oftoberj oe* style,
May it ever be celebrated, whi'e integrity,
firmnefs and spirit are public virtues, and so
long as jimericart Independence is worthy of
preservation.
2. The PRESIDENT of the United
o'ates—whofe spirit animates his country,
whose wisdom Foils the intrigues ofc. corrup
tion,.and whose fortitude leads aatjHfe in
triumph.
3- Eieutenant-General hi
the pride, the boalt, the father, Me nroQK
'■ tor of his country. In peace a
in arms a holt.
4. The congress of the United States—
May thsy never again follow, instead of
1 leading the public opinion*.
5. The judiciary of the Unjtrd States.
May they continue to prove,*that they are
the constitutional bulwark and defence of
rational liberty.
6. The Secretary of State—May the
State always have such a Secretary.
7. The Secretary at War—May his em
inent talents find ample employment, unless
our enemies learn to be more just, or less in
folmt.
8. The Secretary of the Navv—May he
neves be addressed by our officers, Unless to
announce a viftory.
9. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
—May (lie check by her vigilance and unan
imity, every error which shall endanger the
peace and happiness of the Union.
10. The Influence of religion on our laws
—its F.Jlablifhment on our hearts.
1!. Our belt nati«jjp;il friends and only na
tural allies—our arrry, navy, finances and
public virtue.
12. The Americaß Eagle—May the plots
of diforgarizers be pierced by his eye, and
their oppofitioo fall under his talons.
13. Old times-—Old principles, and none
of the gipfey jargon of France
14. May we be armed against the iufidi
ous wiles of the apo'.late - biUiop The
deeping crocodile is more dangerous than
the roaring lion- Ask Switzerland and Ge
neva ? (
15. The Officers of the Array and Navy
of the United-State*—May they prove
themselves to be the legitimate sons of Mars,
and may ther portion of hin estate, be fu- <
ture fame. i
16. May those who have organized into 1
lyftem, corruption and treachery, be forever !
■excluded American hearts and harbours.
ti, <r Governor had retired. 1
tt i o°ve rn ° r May every Officer in the
Unite I States be clothed with the fame ir.-
tegnty, and meet equally the approbation of
his fellow citizens.
The Subscriber's Office
■ from the COUNTRY, ,
'Vltf " ,i,e USO.V-'PLACE, No. 1
56, Na» TH Fqurth Snt hT
S\MH£L CALDWELL
(3asCtte/
PHILA DELPHI A,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOrRMBER 7.
;
r By the extortionate prices exailed by the
market pe >plc for evfry neceflary of life at
this abundant season ol an uncomm inly a
bundant year, the p ior Citiz n is actually
f compelled, after escaping the horro s of pef
f t lence, to fuffcr the evils of a fa&itiou*
Famine. The confcicnces of thefc people
: i* unfortunately the only tribunal wc can.ap-
J peal to, and one may judge how rr.uc:i is to
I be cxpc£ted from that conscience which can
attempt to exaft Two Dollars ! for a fm?ll
s Turlaty m the m'onth ot November.
Y However laudable maj be the motiTes
■* which operate with the Schuylkill Tent
e Committee, to induce the propokd measure
of marching the p:ople thence to the City,
1 in a body,—the obvious.objeftions to the
. meafnre are fj linking that it n surprizing,
they Ihould not have been seen and felt. It
) is to be hoped the general disapprobation
1 every «uhere m tnifefted at this intended step,
will operats to prevent it.
General Walhington is cxpecled to visit
. this City, about the id of next month.
n
' General>Dmiel Smith, late Secretary to
the Governor of tire Territory South of the
Ohio, is defied a Senator from TenefTee, in
t!*e room of Andrew Jackson, Esq. appoint,
ei a Judge.
t ' The reign of JuQice.
• | In the House of Rcprefentatives of the
(tare of Vermont, on the 24th ult. Mr. Al
lis m»ved the following resolution :
1 Resolved, 1 hat Ifaa'c Clark, a member
; of this House, having been guilty of 3 high
mifdemcnrrir[concealing the viltt in favTr vf
t thi Fe:leraliJ}s~\ -ind breach of trull, as one of
; the Comniittte for receiving, foiting and
couning, the votes for Governor , Lieuten
ant Governor, Treasurer, and Cotinfellors,
' be expelled from this Agreed to.
! ! Tbas ... i C B
j Nays 43
' i Mejjfage from the Governor of Vermont, to
the General AJfembly of thai fates, on the
l id ult.
In Council, .03. 23, 1798.
1 Mr. Speaker,
I do myfelf the honoi to lay before the
General Assembly, certain papers, together
with an application made to me by a depu
tation from a jiumber of Indian Chiefs, of
the seven nations of Lower Canada, who
conceive they have an equitable claim to
compensation for the loss of their Hunting
Lands, within this Hate.
As they are attending in this place, for
the sole purpofc of receiving an answer to
their application, you will give me leave
to fuggell the propriety of an early a tten
tion to the within communications.
ISAAC TICHENOR.
We art atithorifed to fay, that the Hon.
Elbridge Gerry, Efq does not wilh to be
considered as. a candidate for the second
middle dillri<S, as he will not serve, if unao
imoufly chosen. ' Col. Cent.
TSe chiefs, Tinowee, AJfahnaJfah, So
nooooowofee, To of ah, Tooono waptaffee, and
Geod/lream, were then introduced to the ho
norable house.
The latter delivered a talk, expreflive of"
: the objeft of their milfi »n, in which he ho
that as they had come so fai, from the
C-ouncijl fire of their own nation, to
talk with the great counsil of Vermont, in
their big wigwam in Verge ß nes, th. y.fhould
beheard-with attention—'that "the Great
Spirit mightbrighten the chain of si icidfhip
between us,& keep it lo plain,as that a little
child may find it when the fun is asleep in his
blanket." J r
After delivering their credentials, the
chiefs retired, and the fubjeft was committed
for the confederation of the House.
Last Sunday mornirtg the body of awo • ]
man. seemingly about 24 years of age, w>B ,
found on the Wilmington road, in the (late J
of Delaware, a little beyond Naaman's ,
creek, with her thioat cut into the bone of |
the spine—her left hand was deeply woust
ded, probably in the struggle (he ha I made
to save her life. Her dress was pretty near
ly that marked as " gay quakers(he wore
a white gown, white gloves, white satin ;
bonnet, green petticoat, and drab cloak.
From papers found in her pnpket, her
Ramc would seem to have been Patty Adams,
and that flic had lived with Squire Bl- ck
wotod, Racoon creek, Jetfsy, tram the 4th <
July till 6th September.
TOTAL DEATHS
In New-Tori,from Aug. 1, to Nov. I. ,
Men, . . 1077 I
Women, . . jg, f
Children, . . »6 0 (
1
1998 1
Of thefei46B, died of the fever. j
Notice is hereby given,
rHA! application wiltbc made to tfie treasury
of the United : taccs (or the renewal of the follow
ing certificate- ~f fix per cents, funded-debts, ftand
in the name of 'j JIC QaVriille Rigav/t, of Geneva,
which were loft from on board thb Swallow Paak
et, Capt, Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik. /
8011,.
No. 3l9J.Rcg.pffice 19th May *95, icerr. for ioco
13,181. do. 14th do. dir. 1 do. for 1500
IVilUngt & Francis.
AN APPRENTICE
T P THE PRINTING BUSINESS
Will be taken at this Office, if
immediate application be made.
Nov. i. g t
Dover, (Deli) Kt vernier 2.
.CJ- jrnirjn of the Prefdent's Birth-Day.
TuefiUy uff the 30th of October, thennni
vcrfary or tlie Jjirth of our illufirioua PreCiiciit
foHN Ajiams, was celebrated in a manner
Wi-rthy ot the rficinorable occasion, 471^highly
indicative 6f the patrioticfpirit of cur citizens
A very large company of Gentleman, partook
of an ciegim dinner prepared for the purpofc
at captain Fuibee's tavern, to which Judge
> Cnfhing, aid Judge rtedtord (the CircuitCourc
of the United States being then infeflßxt) and
the honorable James A. Bsyard were invited.
' Afterdinncr the fallowing toMts were drank :
I (. The Prcftdant of the Unitejl States, and
the anfpiciotis day which pave hint birth.
> 2. Lieutenar.t General George Walhing'on.
1 .3 The Confiitution of the United States—
| tke palladium of ,ou? pMi* and Kberlies.
4. The Judiciary—the pillars of society and
government.
5. Spae members in both houses of Congress
—may wildom, vrtue and energy mark their
C legislative mtafures.
15. Our late C<'mmi(?ior>ers to the French re
, P"b >ic- may thrir exa pie be the model of
. American " diplomatic Jkili "
ar P r<rfCi <' nc e to a dishonorable peace.
• 8 ' American charafter—may it be rfif
tinguilhed by kirtdnefs to its /r'isn.ls, and veil
1 geance to-its enemies.
, 9. The Navy of the United Statr*—raav i:
avenge the injuries, and eiLcetht ms ,lts off. r
ed to our country.
umphantly through the regions ,f the world.
I'. The true Patriot -the f p.p.. .er of the
laws, and rhe enemy o? licpttnouftrtfs.
1 11. The Alk'ti and Sedition A<^i —Salutary
: laws a prompt and faithful execution of them.
, 13. Tie army and militia of the United
States ui'tfiil executive bodies when ordinary
means fail. »
14. The Democrats—niay they repent of
their fins and he forgiven—-turn from their
wicked ways and live.
ij. Commerce and Agriculture—tlie mutual
fupportof eafhether, and inex!«wftible I'ourccs
of wealth to this country.
16. The American Fair- amiable, beautiful
and lovely may their tmilesbe ever the diflin
guilhing an.l enviable reward of the virtuous
and the brave.
rOLONTRERS.
The Judges being absent.
Judge Cuihing—may his charge to the grand
jury be the creed of Federalilts.
Judge Bedford.
Timothy Pickering—mav he continue the
contrail of his pl-edecelTor. '
By Caf>t. Israel—May every man profeffing
federal principles at all times hold himlelf in
readmefs to support them with his life and for
tune.
By Judge CuJhing—Governor Baflett.
By Judge Bedford —The reign of federalifm,
may it continue to defctnd and refrefh the Ame
rican earth, without obfti u&foji from the (hrubs
of democracy.
By Mr. AfcLane—Matthew Lyon's fate to all
the I'pitting faiiion. v
By Mr. Jam s A. Bayard—The American
people—may they be fenlible that their govern
ment is a part of themselves.
By Mr. George Read—The rose of federalifm
—may it eternally bloom.
By DoS. Sykes—The empiFe of the Seas—
may it be governed by the laws of justice, and
not of force. y
By Mr Barratt—Alexander Hamilton.
By Mr Saml. White—A fuccefsfnl coalition of
all the nations of the earth against the insolent
tyrants of France.
By Mr Hamilton —The Secretary of the Na
vy.
Newark, Nov. 6.
We are informed by a gentleman from
Vermont, that Gen Fletcher, (Sheriff of
Windham County) on his way to Vergen
nes, the feat of government, was attacked,
on the Weft fide of the mountain, by a par
ty of Lyon's deluded wretches, whoattemp
ted to dismount his federal badge ; but be
ing armed with a well loaded hunting whip,
he resolved to defend himlelr, for which pur
pole he aimed a llroke at one of them, which
killed him on the spot. The Gen. wc are
told, has forrendered himfelf for trial.
dSasette sparine JLitt. ,
Port of Philadelphia.
/jRRIFED- 1
Britr Sally, Weeks- New Providence 1
The Brig Polly, Howard, and Schooner 1
Phcebe, from Havannah, a brig and a 1
tchooner, names unknown, are below. '
The fchooncr Sincerity, Mosteith, and
brig Molly, Chirnlide, from hence, have
arrived at La Guira. letters of the 6th
ult. froha La CJuir3, confirm the accounts
of the Spanish pprts on the Main being
Ihut, as reported last week b) an arrival
from Curracoa. J
New-Tort, Nov. 6.
Arrived.
Ship Mary, Beaihby, Havannah
Brig Nymph. St-Thoxas't 1
Pe ifgy. Harris, Havannah
Ceres, Lingo, Savannah f
Porcupine, Butler, Spanilh Main c
Schr. Anna, Fowler, St. Thomas's I
Whiißeas the certificate of two 0
(hares of the Bank of the United States in the b
name ot Samuel Amory, of London, banker, ii
No 3181, iflued in lieu of 11*934 1x594, were ti
forwarded from London by the Britith packet
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
N T ew-York, which packet was captured by the 1
French, and the faitf certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, and all persons concerned are defircd to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE. I
Phila. Ofl. a 6, 1798. eo6w
Eight Dollars Reward. i
ROB BEJR.Y was committed oil
the 17th inllant, at tjie house of the fut>- ?
fcriber in the townfliip of Solebury by two negro '
men, —tbey carried off a quantity of cath ; a pack- '
&t book, containing so we valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, &c.—One »f ttie negroes is a middle _
aged niaD,known by the name of john White, for
merly a resident ol Philadelphia, has an impedi
ment in his fpcech—the other supposed to be *
a runaway, about dghtecn years ml age, of 0
of middle Mature. Whoever fecurcs the aforefaid c
villains so that they may be brought to jaflice, (hall '
receive eight dollars teward, or four for either cf f<
them taken separately. . f
Isaiah tuckemoney. ll
I Sokbury, 10 Mo. 19th, 17915. —jt.law
LAND TNG; ,«
I i.oni on board the Brig Amiable Matilatj
' Ricliurd Stiles, Mailer, from Cape
| Nichala Mole. '
D- V' Sorts and Fiancel Drawers "1 W Cf>
! J 8 Do Gaiters ! VT* r
• i Do. Rui'* {• oo ®* a*
V J I 110. lUitti Sack. f J 5 ' »
'• I i Do. Funnel Trowfers | 3 3-9
. j 4 Uo ; '«««. J -5 ° p
j ■ Alio just Imported,
t _ la the Ship Captain W' e bb, f #nj
j Uv&rpooi,
. i 147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
- AiTorted particularly to suit the Weft-ind.'a
Market—For Sale by
Thomas £s* John Ketland.
uovembcr'7 C
~ FOR S4LE,
By the Sul|fcribers,
- T H E CARGO
Of the Jhip Louifciy
( Captain Champlin from it. Petersburg,
CONSISTING or
HEMP and BAR IRON.
In the Jhip Dispatch,
, Captain Bcnners, from Hamburg,
15 boxes-Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of Jhip Rick
- fiwnd's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
ai d an elegant assortment of
P . Madras Handkerchiefs.
Maru'ecai Lewis. •
! Philadelphia, nov 7
Tories to Winter.
I TTORSFS will be taken in to winter at Phe
' « ?'"? H i LL ' a: the 14 M ' ls on the
1 roa , d ; thc y w 'll Well fed with clever
H * 7' We " htter#d an<l 'leaned, and
will also have a Urge field to eicrcife themfeives
mr s i WriMh k " is tf ood -"inquire of Mr.
IV,//,am £,H, merchant, Watet llrtet, or on .!>•'
premifts.
Nov. 7
%*The Conlignees.c f (
on'board the (hip Commsrce, capt " ~ ,
Liverpool are requtflj-d to fend their } .- n
board, as she will commence difchargir.g on 1 ha
day next zt Latimer's wharf.
Nov. 7, 1798. M
Virginia Tobacco, "
r quahty ° Ur h ° gflli:ad! '°' d ' ° f * r ' exce:icl "
FOR SALE BY
James Murland,
No. 97, Srmth Front ftrett.
N B._ a fe W bote* of LINEN CHECKS, and
» of BOOTS and SHOES, which wi"
be fold cheap ,a ppty a® above.
nov - 7 * 3 r
- codtf
To the Creditors
Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Northumbtrland
County, in the State of Ptnnfylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
r nHAT 1 have applied to the Judge, of the Court
X, of Commoffitea., in and for 'he County ef
Northumberland, for tht.benefit of the several laws
ef Fennfylvaiiia, palled lor the relief ci Infoivent
Debtors; and the Judges of the said Court have ap.
pointed the Thiruethday of Novemfcer infh it be
ing the Friday of the court of Commen Pl- 3S f or
the County of Northumberland, to heai me and
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunburv at
which time place my Creditors may attend if
they think proper.
Wm. MC. CLELAND.
Northumberlajid, November I, 1798.
novemher 7. ' lawjw
The Creditors
Of William Steedaian and John Smith, of
the County of Northumberland, in the
Stale of Penafylvama, lately trading un
der the Firm of
JjTEEDMAN tif oMITH
WILL TAKIi NOTICE, that the Subscribers
have made application to the fudges of 'ha
Court of Common Pleas for the County of Nor
thumberland aforefaid, for he benefit of the several
laws of the State of PetinfyW:i»|.i< orffed Jar the
relief of insolvent Idebrors. and that "the faiti Court
hath appoiutcd the Thirtieth day of November
next, being the friday ps the Court of ' ommon
Pleas, to hear 111 and our Creditor at Suncury in
the County of Norjhumberland, at which time Ld
place you may attend if you ihink proper
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
Northumberland, November 1, 1798
november 7 lai ,., v
JOHN SHIELDS, ~
BROKER,
Embraces this op i ortunily te prefer,t his thanks
, t0 " :s feltaw-citizens fur their pa/? favors *
and acquaints them that he is returnedfrom
Chefnut Hill, to his form?'- rejidence, the
House AO. 12 Chefi.ut between Front
and Srcoiid-ftreet,
WHERE be holtls himfelf reatlv to execute
Jheir commands in ev»rv branch of his
pro:c(Eon, trofting that from a refidmce in this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
them'eflVntijl service, afliiring them that his
commilTion ihali be as low as any in 1 own.
Lous,. Lands, rioules, VefTels, Certificates
of every delcnption and Bills of Exchange,
bought and fold, the docjtetti carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the shortest no
tice, by the public's humble lervant,-
John Shields.
CjT Good negotiable Notes discounted
»t a low premium.
novemher 7 lawtf
DAVID M. SHIELDS
At the Store No. 22 C hefnut-flreet.
Begs leave to inform bis fiends tfcmjlomers that
be has remo-ved hit goad- from Chefnut-Hill,
is now ready to accommodate them with,
COAP.SE and fine w!Jte, red 6^green Baizes
in half pieces—Coarse and fine white Flan
nells from 2fid, to 6/ a yard He expeflt a
further fupplyby the firft arrivals from Scotland,
IrflarJ and England, *nd is determined to fell
low for Cash or a Ihort credit.
" ov 7 lawtf
A young woman from England,
would wish to engige with a lady in the capacity
ot lady's-maid, or in the situation of a houX. keep,
er to a genteel family, or to 3 single gmt'eman
A- good recommendation c*n be procurej from
fotn« of the 010 ft refpe<sUMe families in this citr.
For particulars enquire at the printing office of
this Gazette.
Oftobcr 3f. w , {PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Insurance Company <f North America.
For !n?u**nce agfainf* Fnti, on Dv. r el!ing-
Hoiifcs, and other Buildings (and
t>n Good? coafoktcd in f o £h Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurance*, on hazard* of the firft
dials, will be undertaken at a premium of about
hah per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rftques a larger preminm will be required, which
will vaiy according to circutiftances, fodeai ex
teedii}* one per cent, per annum ; bat in some in
stances, where the property insured m not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered (HH morefo
.by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftanees.
Heufes and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which arc wholly of or brick, well
eonflruifted, so as to b* guarded a* well as may be
•gsinft fires from within, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous' of the firft
dafs, and may be insured to the* full value.
Alio Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in calks. bales, or package., de
pofitcd in fu'ch buildings, to an amount not ex
eeejing 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi;
tioaal premium will be required, in proportion to
circumftanees.
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
good- < xtra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the risque. But it is not easy to arrange tbefe
under p:in»icular lieads or clafTes. so as to dcfcribe
cich wish the ueceffary accuracy. Each caf' must
therefore be decided upon according to 'he circum
''anccsa'tfnding it ( and these circumftanees wili,
ill general, appear from the description aceompa
uymg tb'application.
Buildings partly conflruSed of brick or Hone,
are prefetyible to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the flile of buiWin-, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fitiiated, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are confi derations to
be taken into view. And with rcfyeit t8 goods,
their tendency, whether .from their'nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
to commenieor to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage l»y |
wet, or by sudden and hafiy removal, or to be So- i,
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
. cumftances of weight; and the premiums must be (
proportioned accordingly. I
111. The following conditiont arc to be under
llood by trie panics.
if;. The Insurance is net binding till the ftipu- '
latci! premium Le paid ; but it lhafif be deemed ef- J
feclual frora the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately '
Cgocd or r.ot. (
ad. Insurances may be renewed at the expira- <
tion of the term of the policy , withoot further ex- i
per.fe« tbiui the payment of tha premium of the re
newed term, the circumftanees continuing the fame
as they were aliderflood by the Infurcrs at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is essential to such renewal ; and .
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of thuformer insurance, before he f
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during furh fime ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed 011 the former policy but by computing the *
commencement of the renewal from the expiration f
of the former insurance. The fubjefl of infor- c
ancc may ae'.crihelcfa be open to treaty for a new *
infu-ance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame r
property ; it must be made known at the time of a
a;e;v( : ition, otherwffc the policy made on such ap- !
plication will be void. 3
-jth Goods held in trust, or on confi prnient,' '
iv.'y be infur?d as such ill a separate policy; but .
th: y are not t# be considered as infuxed etherwife. 1
sth. This company will not be liable or accopn- a
tabic for any loss or damage occasioned by any for- a
elgn invasion, or by »ny military or ufucped force- *
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion, - n
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th- c
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro- v
1 perty insured. *j
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro- *
raillery Notes, are not included in any inference ; 1
uor are paintings, medal--, jewels, gems, antique , n
curiofitks, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen- T
ty-five dollars each, to be considered asinfuredune fl
less particularly mentioned aid by fptcial agree
ment. . ~
7th. No infurante will be made for a ffiorter
term than one year, nor tor a longer term than ft- c
vew years. Persons choosing to infare for seven
ysarj (hall b callowed one year's premium by way ?
of dileount: One third of a years premium (hall "
he abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Lofles fuftaincd By fire en infur;d, '•
fhallbe paid in thirty days after due proof and li- f 1
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defeiijXion of the property to be ifffur&d will P
be cxp.ilcj with each application, to be made by
.nutter carpenter and figncd by him, as well as j n
by th i owner of the building 01 applicant for in- ; 0
fura:ice, and attefied before a Notary or principal '1
Mayiftrate, who will certify his knowledge of the c<
parties and their credibility. P
With reipeifl to Houses and other Buildings. G
' ift. The Gte and position; describing the "
jli'ect or road on or near which the building :
stands ; its cotuiguity to water, and other cir- (
cumllanoes relative to the extinguishment of fire .
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether n .
my and what fire coropanie* ah: edablifhed, and ta
engfnes provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
sd- The materials of which it is built, whe- q
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of n<
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition wills, and their refpedl ire height and t k
thickneis ; the style of the roof and of what 01
materials , how secured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the ui
hotife and to the chimnies j whether any and
w hat eiedlric rods ; the number and kind of ■
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for allies. fu
3d. Ihe diraenfions of the building and how
divided, and the flyle in which it is finifhed so _
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the ige and condition of tl>e building, 1
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what par- "
pose , also an eflimate of the value of the house I 01
•or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpeift to other buihi- rt
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or P"
not, crmprehending at lead one hundred feet
eadi way : what kind of buildings are within w
that diflaace, how built, of what materials,and w
how occupied or improved, urtiether as dwel- w
lings for private families or otherwise : whe- P'
ther any and what trade or manufactory it car-
Tied 011, and particularly whether there be any
rxera hazardous articles used, or ufnally dep#-
fned in the heufe, or within the diflance afore- _
said, and of what kind.
Rcfpefling,ffW/ in House*, Warehouses, Ac.
I. A peneral description of the building in '
wl.ich they are kept will be expedled, similar in T
all refpefl», at to the danger from lire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
teives. _
a. A description of the kinds and nature of '
tbe goods, whether in calks or o-her packages,
or opened ; and whc:hrr displayed in whole a P
f :ec»t or in (ha uftul so.m for retailing. And '> r
O 1 "
liMtiejooJs .ary in kio4, a
eiliinate «>f the of each kind prnpofed to
lie infurnl ; Uut 111 the lilt particular minute
nef- of tiefcriptioii is ntft expelled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extrS hazardous, though in various degrees,
l S" in whatever bvihlmg ihey may be pjaccd, viz.
piirh, tar,ti*pentine, rol-n, wax, tallow, oil,
,m inflainmibk spirits, fufphuf, hem»>, flax, cotton,
dry,g»ods of an iullaminable kind opened. —
Glift, chiaa ware or poiccfain, cfpeci.illv un
packed; Looking glafles, jewelery ; and all 0-
|US ther articles mars than commonly inflammable,
c)l or ir ore than commonly liable to injury by fud
,x. den removal or by moiiUires, or particularly
obnoxions ts theft on an alarm of fire.
j n Letteis port paid, directed to the Secretai yof
so the Board of Direiflors, wiH be duly attended
nd to. An order for Insurance accocrjianwd by the
fed moans or" paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium heinj paid._ If
ti- the application contain an enquiry only, it will
ell be-anfwercil.
be By order oFthe Board,
,a - EBENEZF.R HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Office of the Insurance Company NortSt )
r " America ; Phllad. Feb. I, 1798. )
Feb. 14. lamtt'
:ra ——
ie- Bank of Ptnti/ylvanta,
September 3d, 1798.
'T the Hou'e at piefent
'• \V by the Bank of Penhfyivania wasenter-
M j ed on the night of the firft inflant, hy fomevil
HIJ lains, who robbed the institution of sundry
Bank Notes, amorgll which were the foliow
,{e in K post notes of the llank of New York, viz.
t< s ioca, dated-jjd of
iflbed in fivor of Seabring &
Van Wyck, loc a 2
No loos, dated 151)1 of A'ipufi, 1798,
Fa- iiTuedinfavorof Montgom
ery and Newbold for 1153
le, No 1006, 27th do. do. do. aooo
in 1007, do. do. do. do. 2000
<- 1008, do, do. do. do. 2000
ig 1009, do. do. do. do. 2COQ
to 1010, 23th do. do. do. 2opo
5 i 1011, do. do. do. do. »000
or 1012, 30th do. do. do. 150 c
1013, do. do. da do. 1000
Also sundry post notes of the Bank of Penn
'> fylvania, dated 2?d July 1797, issued in favor
°* 'of George Hughes, for one thoul'and dollars
each, and sundry post notes of said Bank, da
ted i of July, 1797, ifl«ed in favor of Geo.
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each :nd in
doffed by him. The public are hereby caution
ed agair.ft receiving the said notes, and a re
i ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
hereby offered for th - and rcnviiflion
]y of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the rtward
a . offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
s- in his Proclamation of this day.
e- Br order of the Board,
le JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
't Mills, Portage, &c. 1
rp BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS.
le ~
j nT Obe leefed, for a term not less than three,
r . JL aor more than seven years, a VALUABLE '
le PRQP£R'I"Y at the SenCca-Falls, iu the county of 1
, n Ononoay;o,i nd (lata of New-York, on the Banks
._ iof the Seneca-river, two rai!6i weft of the Cayuga- j
„ ferry, and elevep miles ea!l of Geneva.
This eftablii'Mnent coofifis of an excellent grift ,
ie mill, saw mill, dwelling i*>ufe, barn, and a port
age or carrying place, with between thirty and
j. forty acres of land, under good improvement, and :
as much more in the vicinitf, as may be required f
t for future improvement. t
The griil.mill is a handsome, newand well fin r
ifhed building, of 50 30 feet, 3 (lories high
and furnifhed with a fun of excellent Burr stones
r . and another 01.0 1 . Efopu*' stones, of the bell quality <]
.. —and the mod approved bonlts, Sec. calculated to f
, .make all the different qualitie'i of flour ior expor-
Cation or for home consumption : ItisaccefliUle by
j. wates from every part of the Cayuga lake an<i Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca lake—and C
from it« situation, commands a veryextenfive and
encreafing custom y The lireim on which it stands,
. being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau a
e ; never be in warn of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevcreft feafor of the laftwm- t|
ie ter, it is not liable to be impeded by frail :
The saw mill is ilfo new, fituateJ on the fame p
llrrtim, now furnilhed with an ample stock of .
, r logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro- f]
.. cured by lani or water, of the best quality :
n The dwelling house U well calculated for the use
y of the miiler, is new, and fufficiently lai ge : The
;i barti is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
, r The portage is 3-4ths of a mi|e in length, along j
the Seneca-fall.—pver which were passed in the n
lad year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objeA is already productive of a
handsome income, which must be incrcafing and r
U permanent: c
T Among the many advantages of tljisfituation, 0
,' s must be numbered the fertility of thefurroundiug
i_ ; country—beingthe best improved part of the conn
,j ;ty of concentration of ipter- -
e coHrfe Ey land and water, the Geneffe< flateroad
palling through it, as well as all water carriage to £
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Struben ; .
e which renders it a moll eligible {land for a Store or j"
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fiii and
fowl, and tke country with deer and other game..
Besides the mills already ereifted at this place, it .
:is calculated for any additional water works that "
J may be found necessary—Fulling mill, baik mill P 1
1 ! tannery, forges, &c. may be ere&ed at a fmatl cx
pence—lron ore may be broHght in boatslrom the
' ' Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the tr
' neighborhood.
r The stock on hand w : U be fold to the lessee, and c
1 the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, See. may be fold ..
t or let the premises.
If a purthafe (hould offer for the whole or an f
e undivided part of the premises it will be fold. ' ri
i F.r terms of sale or lease, apply to mr: Wri- .
f helmus Mtnbersx, at the Seneca'falU, or to the 18
fubfenijer, at ScheneSady.
, STEPHEN N. BAYARD. m
, jane ts aawim V
£ Mails for South-Carolina csf Georgia,
PACKETS are now provided for carrying the
Public mailtby water between Philadelphia
and Charleston. They w'tll leave Philadelphia H
e j on Friday's. The post by land will be csntimi- *
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
. regard to the expedition and regularity of the to
. packets. If any person chufes to have their P r
j letters I'eat by land only, they will please to ,<:l
, write the word Land upon the letters : other- 8r
j wife they will be sent by that conveyance which ri
will firft flart after the letters are left in the
poft-effice. be
Jofcpb Haberjham,
Pojl-Majler Gemerl.
Philadelphia, Augujl ij, 1798. { m
WILLIAM M'LAWS, ?,
; SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and TweMtli-Qreets, on the Commons,
i where he will receive and execute the srdert of fit
hit friends and wholesale cuftoraers, with usual ly
attention & expedition during the prevalence of ti*
the present Epidemic, where it has not made its ""
appearance this fcifon, nor daring any ef the 1°
years ;
2j |
r, !j Bengal Gloods,
to . « »
COH3!#TI*G GK
ltc .BINDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
01 ''irz CrflU* Mah»ra2^;tnjry
Chint* Gua*i«as Tuofcifys
cs ' £lubad Bifras Wrought Mufiins
r,2< ' l.ong Drawer**
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the Eurepea* markers 1
- >n > ALSO,
• Caroliua lnjiy) '
Jf- Coffee in hogiheadi ;
o- A few of very old and very choice Madeira '
)!e, WlilF.
id- For Sal:, on reafouable terms, Py ;
rly • John Craig,
No. ii, Dock-Brief. '
•of julv 14 mwstf '
I" 1 Ten Dollars Reward. <
"TXESERTiiD from t!*e Guard House in New «
jt- -L/ Ca(lL%yhis morrXng, Stepuen- Bowde.v, a
l ill P r * vate Mannc l>el( nging to the Frigate United
Sfut- s He 1* 'liou: 36 years of age, five feet ten
inches hlQfft, fair coni lexion, light hiir, blue eye»,
born in England, ar.d by trade a Brickl.-jwf. Prier
to the sth of Jane, the dare of his cnliltm.nt, l:«
reGded in Fhi!»uicU*hia, where h is probable he
will endeavour to tjo. -Any person v\ho Will ap
prehend rh.' said deserter, and fe ure him in any
jjil within the United States, fiiall be entitled to
the above Reward.
T. WHARTON, Capt. Marines. J
ctf New*Ccfll< , Ocsl o.
c ;'i" DUTY ON CARRIAGES. •
<y _ 6
• Notice is hereby given, t
7 "HAT agiceably to an ail of Congress of the
b'yitd States of America, patted at Pkila- '
the 28th dny of May, 1796, laying du- 'I
ties on carriage* for the conveyance of persons, and
repealing the fori-sor aA> for that ptwpofe—'l'hat li
there {hall he levied, collefiefi and pud, upon all C
carrirgvs for the convr.yauce of persons, which I
Snllbe kept hy or for any person, for his or her ri
ewa use, or to lut out to hire, or for the convey- D
ing mi pafTet'gers, the ftveral duties and rate« f«l- \
lowing, viz. dolls, j-
For and upon every coach 15
upon every chariot 11 n
upon evary post chariot II ( j
upiin eVery poll chaise It Q
n- uponeveryphiton, with or withoattop 9
; r upon every coachee 9
rs upmi other carriage*, having pannel }
a . work above, with blinds, glasses, > 9 P
0 or curtains J ''
n u.pon four-wheel carriage*, n jvmg,
n . frame potts and tops, wish heel > 6 ''
e . fpriugs ) w
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ") P
1 wooden or iron springs 011 jacks j 3 fe
upoa curricles with tops 3 d'
upon chailes with tops 3 if
upon chairs *'ith tops 3 in
[ upon fulkics with teps 3 01
upoaother two wheel top carriages 3 e(
*pon two wheel carriages with tteel") in
or iron springs J tt
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2 p,
upon every four wheeled ferriage, jj,
<g m having framed polls and tops, V 2 ff
and reding upon Woodeu spars J f 0
The Colle&or of therevenue ol the firft division 1
g' of the firft survey of the diftrift of Pennsylvania, .
of IY '" attelxl da, 'y ÜBtil ' h<J joih day of September '!
next, lor the purpose of receiving the duties on V
carriage*, at Germantown, on the Main street, a
little aboue the sign of tile King of Prutfia, of ° L
which all persons polTefCed of such carriages are
t deflrcd to take notice.
,d Notice is also given, pr
id ro all reteil dealers in wines and foreign diftilJed
rd liquor-), that iicenfes will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of |
n retailing of win sin a less quantity, or in less °.
h usntitics, than 30 gallom—and one licence for " l
es arrying on the bulincfs of retailing spirituous li- or
►y quars in less (quantities than twenty gallons, at the
to fame time and at the fame place, hy ''■
r- JAMES ASH, tk
'y Colleilor of the id dividon of/the id
e- Survey of the diftri& of Pennsylvania.
id Office of lnfpeiftion at Germantown, ") de
id 22d Augufl, 1798. j th
Is, gj" Every denomination of Stamps to be had an
iu at said office. ro
p s 0r The Stamp. Press is removed of
11 to the Office of in Germantown, on the c ' :
Mai* street, a little a6ove the sign of the King of rel
Pruflia,—where attendance will be given for the co
accommodation of tho'e who wilh any inftrn/ii-nts 'ht
3 " flaniped, on Tuesdays, Tburfdays and batordeys c k
«ugu-ta 22 ' an
le
>e Wants Employment,
A YQUNG MAM, who has served a regn- tic
gil lar apprenticeship to the mercantile bufi- re]
ness in this city, wishes to engage in » Couuting fu<
houfe or office, writes a good hand and under- ful
ftands accounts, can be well recommended and Ui
security given if required. Enquire at the in
, office of this Gazette. be
g j u,e 21 3awtf qu
Balkenridge—for lale ha
d T T c r onr 'ft» of 920 acres, almost all of which is
q X a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
• Ecrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dmded IX '
' into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
j East by the river Pafaiek.
Th'r" are on it a number of buildings, forming
t afquare of nearly three aeres— I The dwelling house ' h<
t is a very convenient one andja I malkiptnce would ' at
I put it in complete repair. Tan
The orchard consists of 1500 fin«bearing cngraf- ' iv
e ed Apple Trees—and there is on othsr pvtsof said t0
g tra<3 n?ar 300 other Apple Frees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the bci
j best and most delicious kinds. !
j Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and in
that add to the beauty and coßveni- fha
,j ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles titr
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. be
. fr»n» Morris-Town, and 12 front Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in caffi, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
-luire .( T. McEUEN & Co.
Ho- 78, Chsfniu treet. a.,
, cbM "T «• eodtf ' r
[ Patent Ploughs, D
1 nro be fold for calh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
A Richafd Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
1 Harker, Woodbury— and Jefle Evans, Lumber
c ton, Tbofe who have used them give them the
r preferensc to any other kind, as tkey require
3 less team, brea* the groond better are kept in
. srder at less e*pence and are fold at a cheaper tic
, rate—the plan is much fimplified and eonfifts of •
t but one piece of cast iron, with, the handles and J
beam «f wood t they may beSxed with wrought g l "'
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and thf
taken off at pleasure
Patent lights for vending with inftrafiion* for
making them may be had by applying to John th<
Wewbold, or the fubferiber No. »t» North j
Front-street. " a '
Wh» hat for Sale; COI
t Or to Lea/e for a term qf Heart, Co
, A number of valuable trails of Land, well
f situated fer Mills, Jron .Vorks or Farms, most*
I ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of H«n- tio
f tingdonftatt of Pennsylvania. Those who , nl y .
s incline to view them will please to apply w
r John Canan cfq. near Huntingdon.
Clarlei Nevdold.
i u| y n j
€
- * .v' .
PROCLAMATION.
j)V virtue of a prece-t (rom Jous D. Coxt,
Esquire, prcfident of the cnur'. ol Oyer and
T fmin-r and general gull delivery for the tr'af of
rdl capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks; :nd Hshir Wtnkoop •id Trancis
Mtmvr, judgesof the fame court —A court of
Iters Oyer an 'l Terminer, and gin ral goal delivciy,
will be held at Newtowo,"- in the said county of
Bucks, 011 Monday the sth day of Nf v:mber next.
All those who will prosecute agaisO the prisoners
eira ' n the goal of faij county, are requited to be then
aud there tu prosecute against thoro as Ihall be ju(t
and all the jnAices of the peace, coroners and cou
{l-.bJe*., within the said county, ire required to be
, then and there, in thii? proper persons, with their
rolls, records, inquiTitions and examinations and
other their remembrances, to do those *hings which
to thtir offices belong, in that behal- to be
ew done, &c. UaNIEI. THOMAS,(ftcriff.
», a o>3. 3taw
ited ~ FOR SALE, t.r
ten .
>•. • John IMILLEK, |UN.
n»r v 0 '
NO. 0, CHFSKUT STREET*
h! 100 hoglheads RUi\'l,
a P- Of high proof and fine flavour
a»y july 19
I to _— f
AN ACT
'• Far the relief of the Refugeet froin the British
provinces of Canada and Neva-Scotia.
Sec 1 U E '' by the Senate and lljufe
AJ of Reprefentat ivft of the United
States <f America, in f/femb.'ed, That
to fatisty the claims of certain persons claiming
t |, e lands under the relolutions "f Congress, of the
ila- twenVy-third of April, one thousand seven hun
-3- dreil and eighty-three, ;nd the thirtetni.H us
ind April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty- '
hat five, as refugees from the Britifii provinces of
all Canada and Nnva-'ocotia, the Secretary for the ]
ich Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
ier rized and diredled to give notice in one or more (
ey- of the public pipers of each of the States of
8 '- Vermont, MafTachufetts, New-York, New
"s - Hampfiiire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav- (
J S ing claims under the said refoUitions, to traof-
II m« to the War-ofEce, within two years after
the pjfiiiig of this a£[, a jult arid true account
1 of their claims :o the bounty of Congress. ,
' Sec. 2. And b° it further ensp.ed, That no
9 other persons (hall be entitled to the benefit of the
provilions of this *£l, than those of the f.llow
ing 'lefcriptions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, those heads of famill«, and single per
were residents in one of the provinces afore/aid,
prior ko the fourth day of July, one thousand
3 seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
-3 doned their fettleinents, in confequetice of liav- t
3 ing given aid to the United Colonies er States,
3 in the revolutionary War agai alt Great Britain,
3 or with intention to give such a*d, and enntinn
-3 ed in the United States, or in their lervice, dnr-
ing the said war, and did not return to relide in (
the dominions of the king cf Great-Britain, c
1 prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thoufind seven hundred and eighty-three. Se- 3
1 rondly, the widows and heirs of all such per- {
sons as were a<3t>al residents, as afovefaid, who a
011 abandoned their fettlenrents, as aforefaid, and j
er ' died within the United States, or in their fer- |
jn vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per- (
t fens who were members of families at the time
B j- of thtir coming into the United States, and who
re during the war, entered into their service.
Sec. 3. And be it fm tijer ena3ed, Tiwt the
pro«f cf the fevsral circumstances necefla' y to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this ais>, 1
may be taken before a j'jdge of the fupceme or J
diftriiH court cf the United States, or a judge si
of the lupreme »r Aiperior court, or the firft jus "
rT tice or firft judge of the court ot common pleas "
or ccinty courr of any State. "
le See. 4. And be it further enaSetl. That at
ihe expiration of fifteen months from and after ®
the pasting of this a£), aud from time to time
ft thereafter, it 01411 be the duty of the Secretary
1. for the Department of War, to lay fu:U evi
denceof claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
id and with them, proceed to examine the tcfti-
mony, aud give their judgment what quantity, -j
---(J of land ought to he allowed to the individual q
le claimants, fa proportion to the degree of their t(
,( refpeflive ftrvices, facrifices and hifferings, in a ,
le consequence of their attachment te the cause of t (
t5 the United States ; allowing to those ef the firft h
s class a quantity not e.xc t tiling one thoufanu acres ;
and to the lall class, a quantity not exceeding ai
~ one hundred, making such intermediate clafles tl
as the refolutionsaforefaid, and diftrihutive jus- fa
1- tice, may, in their judgment require, a» l make cf
i- report thereof, to Congress. A-ikl in cafe any V
g such claimant fhali have sustained such loflis and I ,;
•- fufferings, or performed such services for the P !
d United States, that cannot justly be clalTed
ic in aHy one general class, a separate report fh ill
be made of hil circumstances, together with the "
quantity of land that on(;ht to be allowed him,
having reference 10 the foregoing ratio : Pro- j"
Itided, that in considering what compenfatimi
'• ought to he made by..virtue of this ad, all grants ' c
■' except military grants, which may have been
made By the United States, or individual States,
£ {hall he considered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, refpedlively, ei
* ther in whole or in part, as the cile may be, a
j fatisfaflion to those who may have received the
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
f. law, iha!l,be afiignable until after report made an
d to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said f ul
i« lands be granted to the persons eutitied to the
e benefit of this aft.
Sec. 5. Beit father enaciei, Tlwt all claims
d in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, whirl;
i- fha 11 not he exhibited at aforefaid, within the
:s time by this ad limited, {hall forever thereafter r,
'• be barred.
t JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker cf the House cf Rcprefcntatives
e TH : JEFFERSON, Se
Fice-Pref.dcnt of the United States, ke
and President tf the Senate. fhi
■ Approved, AstA 7. *793. »„
JOHN m
Prefdent of the United States. or
Depofitfd among the Rolls in the office of the vi:
n Department of State, tal
" . Timothy Pick fr in a, fir
" tec ret a-j of State. an
e de
1 Pttxfuant to the above Aft, No- sic
r ticc is hereby given to all perfcns hav .1 na
[ ing claims uixier die resolutions of Con-
, grefs, of the 23d of Aprjl, 1783, and
1 the 13th of April, 1785, to trarifmitto
r the War-Office within two years after «i
1 thepaffing of the fild A&, vh.. the 7 t.\
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac- wi
count of their claims to the bounty of vil
, y : h ;
In the proof of Claims, a flrift atten- '°
- tion must be paid to the requifuions of im
JAMKS M'HENRY, tc '
. , Secretary of IVar.
l * " - jaw6w
% *
ANOTHER. STRONG PROOF
t«, Of the great and unparalleled effkay «£>
"j Dr. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
of l r - the Cara of
cis Coughs, ColiU, Asthmas & Consumptions.
of Xetv-York, July xo, '798.
«y. To Da. Church,
of Sir,
it. For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la
ers bored under a feverr Couj-h, (hortnef. of breath
len routing of matter from my lungs and often of
- tiotted olood, till at kngth I«a so reduced as
>u- to be unable to walk across my room, and ow
. ln ? thf vi ''nee of my and the fliort
eir ntfs of .breath could get no reft day or night.
■ k bearing o( your excellent medicine,, the Cni»h
' Drops, I -procured a Uottte ; I took a dole as
De soon as I got it, from which I found inflantane
ou* relief, and by continuing it for three days
I biffs God lam restored to perfed htalth. As
1 believe you to have been the inllrament is the
hand* of Providence, of laving my life, I mu |t
intrrat y<*j to publloi this fur the beneCt of any
«ho may be in my frti.ttten, as t arii confident
ir one of ihe best medicines in the world for
thole complaints.
lam, Sir, jtur grateful servant*
fiICHOL AS STAGG,
Little Roi»ns»n-street.
■ /h CHURCH'S COUGH DKOPS,
Are prepared andTolri by thelnventor and sole
f proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpenfery '
fj New-York, and M hTjfJ
It fire, Ml. r, South Th.rd-llre.-t, Philadelphia,'
and fold by appointment at Mr Wec-dman's 11?
Williaui-ftreet, and Stilwell * Deloreft, x 6i
Pcarl-ftfeet, New-York. iMancius, Albany,
1 rice, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
lon, Wilmington, &c. &c.
as O B S E.R F M,
,e . A u s a Oo " n£t ":; eit preparation of this medicine
een '"duftrioufly crculated through some
re of the principal cities in the United States, per
rf sons are to purehafe them of such per
iuns ■. on] y " Dx Church's appointment for
v . ndin g lame. Powers, roughkeenfie
j- Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New
ar caftle—Hemirfh, Lancalfer— Blauvelt, Brunf
;t »'ck (N. J.) Gordon, Trenton, Ac
.* Patients letters ( Post paid J addrelTed to
q Dr Charch, &ew-York, duly attended to.
Ie a "g ust 20 aa* 3 w
t. This Day Pitb'ifhed,
r- And for fcie at the Ufcce of the Editor, No.
10 119 Chqfnut-ftriet,
1, (Price 1 -%th of a Dollar,)
d AN ORATION,
1- Pronounced July 4,1798,
At ihereqneft of the Inhabitants of the* Town
s, BOSTON, in commemoration t>f the anni
1, veriary of- American Independence.
r. B y J mtAM %yrt/cr.
' the inroads upon our public liberty, call
1 !%T r "r~ The . wrou K s we have foliained,
> call for Jushce. 1 hat Reparation and that
. .f 1 ? 1 "' ma >' y e ' be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
}" d But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of rte ,->evil in the garden of Eden,
0 and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
' prrle°nV" Vot4ri " trom thac period to th»
- Obsetvaiiom on the Boston Port-Bill, ~d e t> 1*
* by the late J. %ui ncy ,j un .
e TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
, -\JOTICE IS hereby GlvKVha't'byvir
r (Inn T,- ? "r r P3irC<l dUI " !nf!: the P !ofent fef
c H " ef Lonjrrefs, so much of the ait entitled
An A a making further provision for the lup
* •• TL' 1 a " d f#r the redempnon
'of the public debt pafled the third day of
t Mar.h, (rnt thousand (yvtn hundred in d
" f, Ve, ./ s bar< frora fettlemeijt or allowance
c Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
I' y nal n f « f )«nent Certificates, and Indents of In
- J rre ' ) ». 'sfufpended until the twelfth day o
c "11 W ' bcthe 5 r " r onethoufand seven
hundred and ninety nin;.
' «vJo" 1416 ,i l u , id ? tion a "J fettlem«if,f the
, fold Certificates, and Indents of Interest, at the
| ' re '' fu T> the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indents and the arrear
s ttSTf dU r °T n their fii<l prior
1 hu JT 5iL January one thousand fcve»
' hundred »ivd ninety one.
I J'hatthe principal funis of the said Loan Offics
, and final fcttlement Certificates, with the interest
' lin " day ol January, one thou
■ land seven hundred and ninety one, will be dif
' B cd "' ,er liquidation at the Treasury, by the
■ paymunt of interest and reimburf.meiw of prinrt
| pal, equal to the furr.s which would have bean
' K ere °"; ' ft '" said Certificate, had been
'"i t0 the A<Ss m =kin ? provision
for the. ft;bts of the United States, dor
irg the late war, and by the payment of othtr
StMk Th h° the . n . ,a f ket **»'"= °.f the remaining
Stock, which would have been created bv such
fubfcr.pt,ons a,aforefaid, which market value will
determined by t|e .Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
iune 18 S*cr"*ry TnaJ
lawtf
TO BE SOLD,
TpHE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
small , tCn y n a " Hf M tht
small pox ai,(J meafies, 1, aSive, hearty ai.dXoin;,
and fit lor house w.rk in town or colntry f^r
turther mformanon, enquire ef the printer.
augmt 4 r
health office.
i-.* •2SZ&ZZ& > %)t
this Commonwealth, pasted 4l b .^r,A
Se<2. 8- A N ? bc " fur:ter by the an-
J. X thority alorefaid. 1 hat every houft..
ft n Prr M t " tT PWladclphia, the to,v.:
(hips oftlve Northern Liberties and .VtovaM, .cl, He
and diflria of houthwark, within a rni.e of tl«; £?
mitso the city, takiug boariers arriviw by
or by land, from any t.,reign port or place, and hi
ving any board.r in hi- or her lamily, who shall b«
fiHM f m a ° y j ll t i V' Vh, " ra " cr ' bct weai the
firlk day of May and the firlt da y of November in
der ft,?;* ZH 'l"?' 7 daT ' r " : lfter boar,
V/khk, a K g r v" " h ° r ho^-
v/uhio i 4 hours next after the knowledge of such
ficKnefs. make report at the Health.Office U the
name olfuch lick perfos, the time of his or her ar,
rival at the house and of hw or l,er be.rg taken sick.
and of the name and place of abode of such house-
Ph T fKial nf the Health-
offl h '- - ' thc patient, andr ß port
to the Office his opinion of the nature of such dif
f : hi£ m «<«res may be taken to prevent the
*L' r i? f°J nfea,on : and if an T l oufekeepec
wfth nCt h' C g T mforraation >" the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and shall he thereof con
v.Aed, in any court of criminal juriidiaion witt.m
this Comnaonwealtl, upon moment by
cr co-feffion. he or (be ft ail furlcit and ,ay , fine
to th, use of the said hospital, „„t lef, than twenty
dollars, nor mere than cnc hundred dollars, to be
Kapofsd at the discretion of the court, according to
thtcirtumil jnca of greater or less aggravation at
tending each pa»ticular cafe.
By order of tile Board of Health,
WM ALLEN, HealthOftcer, '
iawin» ef the Port si tfbiUdelpftia.