States, AND Philadelphui Daily Advertiser,
Number 1790. J
j For Boston,
Elijah Bowen, Mailer,
A fine fading veflel and will take freight low, apply
to the Matter on board at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, or
Joseph Anthony & Co.
1. diw
FOR SALE y
RICHMOND >
JUST arrived from the Eafl-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Wharf.
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpetfl as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and sheathed. She is 80
ieet keel 27] feet beam, T2 feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of
Flour.——For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30 s2w
4 ' LANDING,;
At Walnut Street Wharf, from 6n board the
brig Amiahle Matrhla, William Brown,
Matter, from Bourdeanx,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas iff John Ketland.
Said Brig for sale,
two F a^r lour pound CAN
NON, and one pair izlb. C AR
RQNADES.
may 29
For Cape Francois,
NORTH AMERICA,
Barnes, Mafler,
rftraptv-TO fail in eig<ht or ten days.—For
freight or paflage apply to
Pratt iff Kintxing,
No. 95, North Water, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Crust Cheese, Tumblers, Tickltnburghs, Hcflens,
Brown Rolls, &c. See.
may *5 eod6t
FUR LIVEKPOOL,
l i b'e'r 7 r,
Isaac Vreoenbercer, Master,
A good new veflel, fails well—
Lying at Wilcock»* Wharf, will fail about the tenth of
next month, a considerable part of her Cargo being
engaged*—For freight or paflage apply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall vefTelsto this port.
may 2q dtf
FUR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably fait failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jeremtah Tatem, master.
' n ten d ay»—^°r
freght or passage, apply to J AMES YARD.
IValnut-Jlreet Wharf.
may a; dipt
For Sale, or Charter,
>~!1 THE ARMED SHIP
B E LV/D E r E,
J' ,NATIIAN Reynolds, Majler,
w harf, burthen 256 tows, built at
New-York, by Mr. Chtefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a staunch and faft failing ship, i« well found——
mounts ten carriage gu;is and may be sent to feain
a few riay> at a very little expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
street, to
RICHARD D. ARDEN.
WHft HAS FOR SAtl ON BOARD SAID SHfcP
10 Tons rolled sheet lead
40 Bal.s English Duck, assorted numbers
The .Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wedncfday next, will take freight for
London.
mny 19 §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf, ]
195 caflts of nails aflbrted £
20 bales ef fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
London particular >
India market \ Made.raW.nes ,
TenerifFedo. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles' J
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta &c.
aborted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils ©f cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands and presses 3
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
AMAZ ON y 5
Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in & Griffith. F
J P ril 7 tuth&r.tf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigOayofo.capt.Bingham, from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT, b ,
of an eiccellent quality ai
A few groce Porter Bottles, new ta
And twenty caiks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE, T
Enquire of
j Jehu Hol/ingfworth iff Co. j;
No. 22, Little Water street, South. r
a P r ' l § x ;
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse & Robet Waln, f c
On Spruce street Wharf, ft
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr. calks t*
Lifhpn Wine in pipes and quarter casks '' c
And a few pipes of ;xcell«nt Madeira Wine Bc
may x£. eotf -
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUKE 6, 1798.
Rourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret ">
Frontinae ( xir- /-»
>ly Sautsrne ( W,nes m Caf ""
Lundi J
Red Skins
__ ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 . Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
5° Hogsheads of Tobaaco
> FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
as i une * dtf_
0- Now Landing,
AtMeffrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
of <35,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Moglheads, Ticrc<s, Barrels, and Bags,
FOR S*A L £ BY
SAMUEL HATS,
No, 89*, South Third Street
J un c r _ §6t .
ie Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
)f T)URSUANT to tbe 6th fe<slion of thea& of
i- AlTembly, authorizing the Governor of
this commonwealth to incorporate the company
for erefting a permanent bridge oyer the river
Schuylkill, a meeting of the Stockholders is
hereby called, for the purposes mentioned in
that fe£tion (which i 9 hereafterpublifhed for in-
J. formation) on FRIDAY next, the Bth instant,
1- at 12 o'clock at noon, at the State House. As
this meeting is very importaat to the interest*
. of the company, a pun&ual and general atten
dance of the Stockholders earnestly reguettcd.
By order ef tbe Directors.
RICH AUD PETERS, Preftdent.
Se&ioti 6th, And be it further enabled by the authori
ty ajor e said, That the said I'refideut and Dircttors, on
iheir being chosen, in the firft instance sna 1 call a
meet in t of~ the Stockholders, and that meeting may
appoint five of their number to examin and report
the mod eligible place or places for building the
bridge, and to treat with any body or bodies, politic
ci corporate, or iudividuals, for the piirchafe of their
d refpe&ive rights, or any of them, to the placs or pla
s, ces deemed eligible; and when the said place or places,
and terms on whi«h it or thcvcan be purchased.are so
reported, the said Stockholders,|or a majority of those
_ met, may fix on the place and urms ;or the laid
Stockholders, or a majority of them may at any
time agree to leave the determination, both on place
and terms, to the President and Direftors
june 2, 1798. d6t
FOR SALE, "
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
f " 50 Cherts of Prime Teas,
6 of Imperial, Hyson, Souchong,
V-/ Hyson Skin, Young Hyson ahd Bohea, jult ar
rived ia the Ships Satnpfpn and Ontario ; several com
-1 plete sets of elegant China; 1000 pieces of Nankeen
f of superior color and quality ; a few pieces of eom
mon Madrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In
dia Silks, confining of Luteftringj, Sarlnets, Persians,
&c. &c. of different colors.
a l so, FOR SALE— Entitled to the drawback,
5000 boxes of Pate Graffe Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the ftiip Juno and Jofcph from Amllcrdam.
r T. B. Freeman,
No. 39 South Front-street, or at his tounting
house, No. 40, South Water-flreet.
' may 3 o. mf6t
A Country Seat to Let.
"VTEAR the Franlefrd road, about four and a
-LN half miles from Philadelphia—the situation
, remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate |
Jio/Teflion may be had Apply at No. 144
3 South Second Street.
t OX3 y * .^tawtf
TO BE SOLD, LET,
1 Or exchanged for property in the city of
Philadelphia.
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
; or P'ece of ground, in Potts Town, in the
P county of Montgomery. The houfi? is in good
■ repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ; '
there are a number of good fruit trees therein,
the situation is high and healthy and one of the
best for any kind of business in the town, pof
leffion will be given immediately—for terms ap- '
P's' to William Nicboh (
No. 117, RaceJlreet.
may 29
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for London by th« {hip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured, r
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3*64. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June a, 1797. Certificate F
No. 10,072. d
8021. if. six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Horne, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196. F
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will- n
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 179 7. No
10199. ti
30183. 7a. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name ei
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street, U
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 1797. No. ei
11820.
For the renewal of the above ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of : r
}he Treasury of the United States, —and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak? notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen shares Stockof the.Ba.nkof UaitedStates in 5!
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates 31
for five shares each, dated January 1, 1797. n !
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of w hich,application is meant to __
be made to ths said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons Concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares
TN the North American Land Company, {landing
X on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan'el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid-
d'efex, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
13096 to 13105, ten shares—No. 4150 —13066 to
1 3 0 7JT» ten {hares—No. 2149—1305610 13065,
ten shares No. 2148 —ujopto 11518, ten {hares
No. 2147 —11471 to 11480—-Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
fh;p Willian Penn, which having been captured, pi
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the r«.
newal ef which, applicsiion will be made to the
Board of th« said company, H<
Daniel Neal Lifter. «?
may i *"d6\v r
By John Fenno, N°- 119 reef,
POST-OFFICE, PHILADELPHIA,
22nd May, 1798.
iSTA BUSHMEN V of the MAILS.
The Eajlern Mail
Will be closed on Mondays "|
Tuesdays jat 12
Wednesdays I o'clock
Thursdays ' noon,
Friday* and * and
SaJurd.iys
Arrive at Philadelphia on Tuefdavs )
Wedneiijays j a(
Thursdays ! , , ,
Fri 'ays clßck
v Saturdays 2c J A ' M "
: Mondays J
: A Mail for New-Haven and Boflon will be
, closed every day, (Sunday excepted) at twelve
ut o clock (noi-n ).
A. B. Ihe Mail for the Poft-townson the main
line east of New-fork', as far as Bojicn, will
, be doled every Toefday, Thurflay and Sat
urday with the Eastern mail, and return with
the fame every Monday, Wednesday and
et j Friday.
t . ! The Southern Ma it.
Willbeclofed on Mondays }at
Wednel'days > 7 o'clock
. Fridays ) A.M.
Arrive at Philadelphia Tuesdays at' past
ot I Thurfd.iys C 9 o'clock
"X Saturdays ) A. M.
er ' A Mail for all offices on the Main Line Jje
is tween this and Alexandria, will be closed every
m day, (Sunday excepted) at half past 7 oclock
n- 1 a. M.
it., A Mail for Winchester, Virgini j, will be clof
n ed ." er y Thnrfday, at half pad 7 , A . m. and
»• 1 Fridays, half an hour before sunset.
n- N.li. The inail for the poll towni on the main
d. line through North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Georgia as far as Savannah,will be closed
with the Southern mails from ift May to ift
'<■ November, every Wedncfday and Fr.day, &
311 from ift November to ift May. on Mondays
' and Fridays. The mails for all the otlier
,r t poll-towns in North-Carolina, South-Carolina
he •* nd n '°rgia, every Friday, at half paftfeven
i c o'clock, A. M.
■ir The Vail for the Eajlern-Shore of Maryland,
a. Will be closed eVery Monday, Wedncfday and
■s, Friday with the Southern mail, and arrive eve- i
r o ry Tiiefday, Thursday and Saturday with the |
' fame.
' The Mail for Neiu-Caflle, Cant well's Bridge, 1
:c Duei-Creei, Dover, Fredericq, Milford, I
George-torjjn atid Dags-borough, Delaware ;
7rap and Snozuhill, Maryland; Horn-Town,
- Accomack C. H. and Northampton C. H. Vir
ginia,
Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
and Friday, at half an hour before fi>n-fet, and
5, arr.vie at Philadelphia, every Tuesday, Thurf
- day and Saturday, at eight o'clock, a. m.
1- The Mail for Do-Mingsttnun and Lascajler,
" ' Pennlylvania,
J" Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
s and Friday, at lualf an hour before sun-set, and '
' arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday, at eight o'clock, a. m. ' ,
The Mail for Columbia, York-Town, Carlisle, j
Shippenjburg, Chamberjburg, Bedford, Som
' erfet, Greenfburg, and Pittjimrg, Pennfylva
ma ; ond the pqjl-to yjns in Kentucky and Ten- '
nejjee, <
will be closed every Friday, at half an hour I
before sunset, and arrive at Philadelphia every t
Friday morning, at S o'clock, A. M. 1
The Mail for Potts-town, Reading, Lebanon t
a and Hani/hurg, Pennfvlvania,
1 Will be closed every Tuesday and Thursday,
e at fun set, and arrive at Philadelphia, every '
1 Tuesday and Thursday, at 10 o'clock, a. m. '
A Mail for Carlisle, c
Will be closed every Tuesday, with the mail !
for llarrifburg.
f Tue Mail Jor Miller s-Toivn, (Mifflin county) f
Mifflin Town, Lewifiown, Huntington, Alex
t andria, Centre Furnace, Belle font, Milefhurg 7
Aaronfhurg and Miffl:njburg, Pennlylvania, F
j Will be closed on Tuelilay the 29th of May, c
, at sunset, and afterwards, every second Tuesday. t
The Mail for Sunbury, Northumberland and t
| Lewifburg, Pennfyivania, 0
Vv'ill be closed every Thursday, at sun-set, and t,
arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10 ,
o'clock; A. m. •'
The Mail for Plumflead, Bethlehem, Eaflon and U
IVilkJbarre, Pennsylvania; Pitt's-Town, r
Jahnfoniurg, Sparta, Newton and Hamburg, b
New-Jersey; Gofhen, Irard's-bndge, New- ft
burgh and Kingston, liew-Vork,
Will be closed every Thursday, at fun set,
and arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10 S
o'clock, A. M. J Ul
The Mail for Woodbury, Sweedsborough, Woods- 01
town, Sabm and Bridgetown, W N Jerfev,
Will be closed every Wednesday, at 3 .'clock
P. M, and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wedncf s
day, at q o'clock, A. M. s
The Maii for AtJion and Tuckerton, N. Jerfev, ™
Will be closed every Weduefday, at 4 o'clock
P. M. and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wed- 10
nefday, at 8 o'clock, a. m. te
• be
I have marked the yc
times at which letters mnft be left at the office to ; t
ensure their going in the Mail of the day, as all ■
letters are to be marked— accounts of them enter- ' n
ed in a book, and tranferipts of those accounts ol *
made out to fend to the refpeElive pofl-maflers.
As there ara several places of the fame nine f a
in the United States, the meichants and others fei
are requested to be very particular in the direc- th
tion of their letters; distinguishing the States, Q f
and where it would otherwise be doubtful, the •
Counties, in which those places are fiiuated—
and when letters are not for a post town, the
nearest post-town to the place ought to be men lin
tioned. ROBERT PATTON,pojI-majler. ou
ma r 3" t eod 4 t foi
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX, .
CONSISTING OP |j e£
Claret in hhds. and Cases aw
Oyl, Capers, Qlives, Anchovies and Prunes fee
for sale by j n( .
Thomas Fitzfimons• "
may 26. J x ant
— he
Now Opening,
At Wt li. 1 a m M' Laws Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street, '
A general aflortment of Horseman's l'ai<
Pifltls, direa from the Manufaaurers in London, are
ALSO ON HAND, t0
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light „;i
Horseman s Caps, Swords, Cartouch 3„ xe s Va
■'ices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather no *
Trunks, Carriage and Cliair Harness, &c 1
april p . f Da
A, C O N G R £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ij Wednesday, May 16.
ock (Continued from ytjlerday's Gazette.)
n, Mr. Gallatin laid, it appeared to him
d that both the gentleman from North Carolina
last up, and the Speaker, had considered
this fe&ion in a very different point of view
8 from that in which it had been stated.by other
,ck gentlemen. Both of them considered these
volunteers as a part of the militia. The
Speaker, when alluding to the militia of N
he Jersey, bad (aid they were organized com
panies, or armed associations. He also con.
aio ®dered these volunteers i'n t'ie fame light,
,jll when he spoke of them as an advanced guard
at _ of the militia. And the gentleman f;om N.
ich Carolina when he spoke of an amendment
nd which he intended to introduce, evidently
considered these volunteers as a part of the
mili'ia.
ck Other gentlemen, however, Hated- that
these men were not to form a part of the
ft militia, but of the ariny o.f the United States ;
ck thac if they were militia, they would not be
volunteer aflaciations, as law compels militia
, e y » that the diltin-tive feature betwixt
lc gulars and militia is, that the latter are
obliged by law to serve, and the former be
jf- come soldiers hy their owi consent. The
id spirit of the fvftion is, Mr. G. said. not
that these volunteers should be a part of the
miliiia, but of the army. The associations
Id to whrch it alludes are perfeftly diftiuft from
,;t she militia. If they had not been considered j
& in this light by the Senate, where the bill \
ys originated, they would not have provided i
er that the officers of these corps (liould be ap- !
m poi ted by the President ; and until what
:a te " from the Speaker and the gentleman
d from North-Carolina, in relation to their
,<j being a part of the militia, he had no idea
e. I their being considered in that light. In
le I deed, the Speaker, at the fame time, obferv
j ed, be should objedl to the amendment fug
e, gefted by thegentleman from North Carolina,
; to make the fjftion clear in this refped ;
therefore, though he called them a part of
r ' the militia, both his arguments and the spi
rit of the feftion, prove they are not really
y considered as a part of the militia. It now
d from a belief that these corps were intended
f" to make a part of the army, that he objefted
to them, and (hewed that if they were to be
considered as militia, they might become
y so, without any new law, aa there are vacan
d cieS fufficient to embrace all the volunteers
i- who may offer, in the volunteer corp* which
are or may be attached to the militia of the
» several dates. In support of this opinion,
[_ r .' an extract from the militia law,
[_ which ena£ls that there shall be at leall one
company of light infantry attached to each
r battallion, but does hot reflrift the number
y to one company, and he Hated that in many
battalions that company was not even form
* ed, that there were vacancies i'd all, and that
j supposing in some instances that not to he
' f the cafe, there was no impediment in the
law presenting the formation of new uniform
companies.
I| When he had mentioned that it appeared
.o be the intention of the fefiion under con- ,
fidera'ion to embody a certain class of citi- I
r zen s, such as merchants, lawyers, See. and 1
■ place them in the hands of the Prefirimt, his 1
colleague said ihe remark was insidious, and 1
that he (Mr. G.) mnlt kiow that thevolun :
teer corps in the militia are coinpofed chiefly |
of the ysomanry ofthj 'country. This he v
knew and this he wished to continue to be t
the cafe, but the objett of this feftion was 1
to create a change in that refpeft and to 1
nake the volunteers a separate and diftind c
body from the militia ; in (hort, that they [
should not be composed of men of all de *c rip - n
tions. And unl.*fs fnnje reason c.;uld be v
given why these volunteers would be more P
ufeful under this new organization, than as 11
militia, he wished them to be considered as \
the latter.
His colleague (Mr. Sitgreaves) had d
given two reasons why these men should ke G
considered as regulars rather than militia.—
The President, he observed, had no power r >
to call out any part of the militia for a longer ?'
term than three months ; whereas h: wouid p C
be authorized to call out these corps f®r two c*
years. But if tnis was the only objedtioh, bt
it would be an easy matter to pass a law giv fu
ing the President tne power to call the militia n '
out for a longer period. But this was not a '
the only objeft of his colleague. He went tC
farther. He said there was an efTentiat dif- th
ferencebetwixt th?fe corps and the militia ; ril
tha* the law which authorizes a detachmen, C
of the militia, limits their service to iovafion re
infurredion, or imminent danger ; whilst re
the bill now before the committee is not so
limited, and this he gave as a reason why it e v
ought to be adopted. Now he would ask di
for what purpose these volunteer corps could fid
be employed, other than those above named ? dil
He should have been at a loss to have con- P e
je£tured, had be not heard an argument from lel
another gentleman from Massachusetts which je
feetned to lead to that object. After speak- cit
ing of the imminent danger of our situation, tin
and giving it all the colouring he was able, al1)
he went on to fay that England and Ireland, a "
who flood in a similar situation with u-, as be .
to the danger of an invasion from France, lud If
adopted the plan of raffing voluuteer corps fpt
upon a similar plan with these. And now, for
laid Mr. G. I woyiJ ask whether these men »? 1
are intended to'be raif'ed for p»rpofes similar ,e[
to those for which volunteer corps have been w
raised in England and Ireland. He hoped i
not - f :
Another gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. cot
Dayton) had frtoken /till more piairiVy, jnd ral
told the committee, that, in addition to the
common service of troops, these volunteers
would be the firll ready not only to repel any
jS. invalion, but also to suppress seditious and
difaffefted persons, infiirgents, or any daring
infractors ot .the laws, Mr. G. asked, whe
thei it could be liippofed these Volunteers
lim w ould be better able to meet any of* these
ina ■x? thanthe Militia (and the gentleman from
New Jcrfey argued as ifjhe thought so) and it'
10, whatwi)l make them better? The gentle
ew man himfelfhad proved that thfe Militia are
ier equal to the fubduingofinCurrettions, bymen
efe tioijing tjie Wertern InfurrccUon, which was
'j ie subdued by. the Militia ofN.ew Jersey, Pcnn
fylvania, Maryland and Virginia. Four years,
' Mr. G. laid, had elapsed since that insurrec
tion, and from that time, nothing; has been
HI- seen but a chearful, fumbiflion lo the laws,
lit, From that time, it is true, we have seen dif
ird ferences of political opinion j but no fym
(f. to '» of any infraction of the laws.—On the
n " contrary, we have seen nothing but an uni
versal attachment to the constitution, and a
•y sense of the happinef enjoyed under it. Why
»e then, is the house told, not only to day, but
on former tjccafions, of seditious. and difjif
at fedted perfons—Ql' dangers threatened to this
[le country, from insurreCtions f Of the dangers
. ftf an mvaliou he had already spoken, and
' would not repeat his observations on <hat
. head; bi;t gentlemen do not (lop here. They
:ia f P eak ' not ottfy of the danger or an invalion,
xt but ot the dangers of a Revolution, of an
re oversetting of the Government; and this is
e _ reprefeuted as more dangerous, and as likely
to be attended vvit.lj mpre difordcr than were
- the incurlions of t|io<?.Qths and Vandals of old.
ot %'h was the language, held five years ago in
ve England. Gentlemen profefs themlelyes
ns afraid of the effects oftht" French Revolution •
m I but he owned he was afraid of.that fyflemot"
•d j WW which was five years ago inEa
:n S'and, and which gentlemei) fcem now to be
' I endeavouring to produce jn this country
a | He would call it afyfiem which ex
p- i aggerated the dangers ot ouriituation ; which
at becaufeour veiTels continue to be captured in
an unjuftifiable manner, suggests the existence
j r of a plan on foot for overletting the Govern
ment, by a part of the people themselves with
- the alhltance ot a foreign nation. He would
i- call it a fyflem ot alarm similar. to that of En
v- gland, which, day after day, brings forth mo
r. tions calculated to spread fears of imaginary
a, ™ n r s ers i which one day produces an alien
bill, on tlie next attempts to introduce an un
r confhtutional sedition bill,finally wants mili
. tary anociations of one part of the people in
•- order to suppress a supposed disaffection of
y the reft of the community. And feein-r that
w these motions rapidly succeed one anothT-r no
d one can tell how far it is intended to extend
d j ! hat . aiul whether we shall not soon
hear of fictitious conspiracies, pop-gun plots,
and every other party artifice which has been
practifed'n England. What, Mr. G. would
i- ask, had been the and what the con
■S faqwence of that fyflem in England > To
I, (frengthen the Executive at the expence of
e individual liberty, and to involve tile Coun
try in the mod fatal war, a war that has
' brought that country to the very brink of de
j ftruttion. Whether there existed in England,
e at that time, fnfficient reasons to have iu&ee[-
(i ted those measures, whether there wert in
r that country a number of persons difaffected
to their own Government, and desirous of pro
ducing there a revolution, he was not fuffici
- ently informed to be prepared either to af
firm or to deny. But certain he was, that
e whatever danger might have exilted there
s from France, or from internal difaffVtftion
t the measures adopted by that Government'
however well calculated to suppress for the
. moment, any dangerous fymptomj, had ulfi- '
mately terminated in creating real and imirii
• nent danger from within and from abroad -
■ had brought Ireland to its present deplorable
I lituation, had provoked a perhaps fatal inva-
I (ion, and inlleadof preventing, had paved the
way tor a revolution.
But supposing there were reasons which
impelled the Bntilh Government to take the
meaiures which they did take, Mr. G. alkerf
wlnt cause there was for taking similar ones in
this country ? He knew of nothing which had
taken place here, since the We (tern Insurrec
tion (as he had already (aid) which couldindi
cate a necefiity for awe the people of
this country ; unless indeed it was the inten
tion of gentlemen to suppress Political Opi
nion. He saw symptoms on this floor , and in
various partsof the country, of adifference of
political opinion; but noneexiftsany whereas
to the propriety& necefiity ot repellinaanin
vading enemy, of'fupporting the Condmition
the Liberty and Independence of the coun
try; even amongst those who may have been
displeased with the former conduct of our
Government, in some of its foreign relations.
Gentlemen in this house, tMr. G. said, ve
ry often differed in opimon as to the propriety*
of laws and fettions of laws which palled the
legislature of the Union; but, when they are
paired, all were ofone opinion as totheir beinw
carried into effect. Vet it Ihould seem that
because persons differ in opinion on various
subjects, those who do not come up to the
flandard of the present majority of Congress
are to be considered as seditious and difaffec
ted persons. If this were not the cale, he
could not fee the use of the motion which has
this morning been laid upon the table, autho
ring the Committee for the protection of
Commerce and the Defence of the country, to
repert a bill to enable the President to secure,
remove, and otherwise redriet Aliens, ami
others, (the word Aliens might as well have
been omitted for the word oib-rs includes
every description whether citizens or aliens)
difaffected or seditious persons. This he con
sidered as a pari of the Alarm Syllem. Ho
did not believe that there were any seditious
persons within the United States, that could
renuer it necessary for Congress to exercise a
power forbidden by the conlfitution ; for he
denied that they had power to remove any
citizen out of tile United States ; nor was
there any necefiity for a military afiociation to
affiftthe Executive in the exercise of his leal
authority. °
be considered merely as providing, a force
againd any invasion which may be attempted
againfi this country, he would ask in what re
fpefts these volunteers would be better fitted
for that purpose than the Militia corps ? And
if there be no difference, he had already con
tended that there is no occalion for this law,
as Volunteers to any amount, might join the
Militia, according to the exlfling laws.
Ilis colleague (Mr. Sitgreaves) in reply to
fotnc obfervatioiis of his, has said, that th
qonfiderationof these volunteers being gene
rally men of properly, or who have expeCta-
\VOLUME XIII.tions of coming into the pofleffioifTJf"property,
will be the very reufon why they will prove a
sure defence of the country. Mr. G. (aid, Its
had as much confidence in men ®f property as
others, but no more than he had in every free,
independent citizen. Whether a man bench
or poor, provided he has a common interest
in the welfare of the community, he had an
equal reliance upon him. And this is a confti
tutiunal idea ; tor th& constitution fays, 44 the
rights of the people to bear arms (hall not be J
questioned " Upon that ground, therefore, no
found argument could be drawn.
When his colleague frid, that no objection
could be brought against this corps on the
principle ot its being placed under the com
mand of the President, as the Militia is also
placed under his command, what does the re
mark amount to, but to fay that all the mili
tary force which can be railed, muftbe placed
under his command ? This he knew; but be
cause all the force to be raised, mule be placed
under his command, does it result that it may
not be dangerous toraifeand therefore to place
under his command, a force of a certain de
scription and unlimited as to its number ?
This feftion does not fay how the force is to
be employed, and his colleague makes this an
argument in its favour, because it is left
wholly at the disposal of the President of the
United States. And they are not only placed
at his disposal without any reftritton, but he
may accept of the service of as many as (hall
offer themselves. By this law, Congress give
up their right ot judging in every instance,
& leave to the President the sole power #f de
termining both the application and the num
ber of the army.
Mr. G. said his great obje&ion to this
armed force was, that it had the appearance
of arming one part of the people to guard
against the other ; and this was evident from
the arguments of gentlemen themselves, when
they (peak of this force being wanted for the
fame purpose, for which a similar force has
been resorted to in England and Ireland. In
short, if we consider the present state of this
country, and that in cafe of attack, nothing
can be so desirable as unanimity, he did not
think it would be prudent to have this half
way corps betwixt regulars and militia, which
would disgust the militia, and which in his
opinion would rather have a tendeney to di
vide and disunite the country, than to provide
for its defence in cafe of real danger.
Mr. Hartley said, the gentleman laftup,
in speaking of the troops which subdued the
iniurrettion ill this (late, represented them as
being wholly drafted from the militia. Ht;
mtift recoiled that one of the most refpefta
ble corps employed on that occasion was a
volunteer corps of this city.
[ 7*o be < ontinued.]
Macpherfon's Blues.
battalion orders,
June jth, 1798.
THE Bluzs are toaflrmble, for the purpose ot
Exercise, at the Public Square, Vlarket and Broad
streets, on THURSDAY MORNING,at 5 o'clock.
ROBERT HEYSHAM, Adjutant y p. t.
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
A Meeting of Eufinef& will be held at the house
ef B. M'Shane, in Third street, on Saturday the
9th or June inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening-'-Se
veral proposed members will be balloted for.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
June J.
ARTILLERY BLUES.
AT a meeting of a number of the citizens of
the city ami liberties, at the house of George
Hill, for the purpose of forming an .VrtillerY
Company, to he attached to Macpherfon s Blots,
Saturday evening, June ad, 1798,
Rcfolved,
THAT a Committee, con fitting of fix, be ap
pointed to receive the signatures of such persons
(to the Articles of Afiociation) 3» ars disposed to
jein the said Corps
That the Committee meet on Wednesday and
Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, at the house of
George Hill, in order to confer and notify th« ap
plicants of their ele&ion.
That the following persons be the Committee.
George Taylor, No. 4, Nicholfon's Court ;
William Flintham, No. 15, Keys's alley, or
New flreet ;
Richard Johns, No. I, Oak street;
George Willing, No. 80, Walnat street ;
John M'CaUlty, No. 73, South Second street ;
Theodore Meminger, No. 169, north Second ft.
The Committee invite their fellow citizens to
rali upon them and enroll their names.
ju*e 4»
WANTED,
Approved Bills on London,
FOR which calh will be paid at par. Enquire
of the Calhier of th« Bank of the United States.
June 5
Oh Saturday, the 13 d oj June, inft. at eleven
o'clock preefely, will be expofei at public ven
due, on the premises, if ntt previoujlj dispos
ed of by private fate.
THE four following lots of ground, situated
on Schuylkill, and extending to Plymouth
creek, about fourteen miles si om Philadelphia,
about three miles from Barnhill church, and one
mile beyond Springmill.
They are offered for sale, chiefly from the
view of enlarging an agreeable society, and their
being eligible fituaiioas for Summer retreats,
fmce they command a beautiful profpeft of
Schuylkill and the country around it, in a fertile
lime stone foil under high cultivation, and join
ing to a grift and a saw mill for timber and mar
ble, belcmginging to William Shepherd.
Tl\e intended Canal, will sooner or later make
the communication with the capital both easy
and cheap. Good building stone may be eafxly
quarried on the premifet, lime may be bought
within a quarter of a mille, and scantling and
boards procured from Reading, and brought
down Schuylkill and landed on the premises
A liberal credit will be given for p>rt of the
purchase money, and the conditions of sale made
known on viewing the premises.
N. B. If the day should prove unfavorable,
the sale will be poftponedtill the following We
d or the next fair day.
Belvidere, the 30th May 1798.
Charles G. Palefke.
The draft lately made by Reading Howell,
pay be seen at the Coffee-houfe. I
june 3*
John Miller, Jun.
no. 8, CHISNUT ST*IIT,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muscovado quality, which he offers for
sale very law for cafti or at 60 days.
H £ HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the rnoft reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, See. &c.
June 5 dtf
Wants a Place,
A YOUNG WOMAN, to attend a Lady, or
take care of Children—would willingly g3
into the country, or to the sea shore, at may be
required. Apply to the Prints.
Old Theatre.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, June 6,
The Tablature; or
JUST IN TIME.
In Four Parts.
Part Ift.
Address—Mr. Chalmers.
THE ODE, written by Garrkk, on ere&inga fta
tueto Miakfpeare at Stratford, upon the Avon,
the place of his nativity, and given at the Jubi
lee.—Music by Dr. Arne.
To open with the Overture to Artaxerxes, by Mr.
Taylor and others.
Speaking Part —Mr. Chalmers.
Laughing Song—Mr. Taylor.
" Sweetest Bird that ever sung"—Mr. Wilmore.
" Wild frantic with pleasure"—" Thou foft flow
ing Avon"—and '• Sweet Willy O."
Miss Huntley.
Part idy
Hornpipe —by mrs Ro^wfon,
Sonp mr Wilmore.
THE FERVOR OF FREEDOM.
Addressed to Columbians —an epic recitation.
Mr Chalmers.
" Strepbon of the Hill"—a ballad composed by
mr Baerg.—mifs Huntley.
Part 3d.
A Serious, Comic, Prosaic, Poetic, Heroic,
Whimsical, Rhapfodcol paraphrase on
Shakespeare's Seven Ages,
mr Chalmers.
A Capriccio on the Grand Piano Forte,
mr Taylor.
Song mr Wilmore.
(t Cease a while you winds to blow"—song com
posed by mr Taylor —miss Huntley,
Nominal, or All for a Name,
Comic recitaiion —mr Chalmers.
Part A,th,
Pantomimical Sketches.
7HE WHIM;
Or, Harlcqnin'# Animation
Harlequin,Mr.Chalmers I Clown, Mr. Lu'fy
Pantaloon, Mr. Rowfon | Columbine Mr*. Row fori
The whole to conclude with "Hail Columbia," by
Mr. Frederick. %
The doors will be opened at fix o'clock,
and the curtain will rife precisely at seven,
Boxes one dollar, Pit half a dollar, Gal
lery quarter dollar,
Places, and tickets to be had of Mr.
North, at the Theatre ; at Mr. B. Cart's
musical repolitory, Market-street j and of
Mr. Chalmers, no 39, south Front-ftrcet.
United States. ") ~
Pennfjlvania Diftriff. j
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to mc dircetcti,
from the Hob. Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of
the Di&riift Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Diilriifl, will be exposed to pub.
lie sale et the Custom-House, in the City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the 15th day of June, inft.
at I a o'clock at noon
41 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having been libelled against, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the said court.
William Nichols > MarfhaJ.
Marfhal'ii Office,)
June sth, '9B j
june 5 stot
On FRIDAY next,
The Bth of June, at 10 o'clock in the morning,
WILL BE SOI D,
At the late Dwelling House of Susannah McDow
ell, at ih« corner of Penn and Pine streets,
a varibtv OF
Houfhold & Kitchen Furniture,
Among which are; a quantity bf Feather Beds
and Bedding, silver Spoons, A'earing Apparel, and
a quantity of Tavern Utenfib, &c. &c.
CONNELLY b* Co. AuSiionccr,.
may u. "eo^t
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, stk June, '9B.
LETTERS for the Bririfn Packet, for Fal
mouth, will be received at thi* office until Fri
day, the Bih inft. at 12 o'clock noon.
N. B. The inland postage to New-York ran ft
be paid.
TO LET,
The Houl'e No. 83,-
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in go®d repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of business. Apply as-above.
jnne 5. 1 §
Sale of Real Estate,
On Thursday evening next the 7th June at 7
o'clock in the evening at the Merchanu Cof
fee-houfe in Second-street, will be fold at pub
lic au&ion,
A three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street
No. 31, between id and 3d streets. The
house is in compleat repair 10 feet Front and the
lot extends g» feet in depth with the privilege of
an alley Piazaof 13 feet 9 inches by 11 feet, a
large convenient kitchen of 20 feet 9 inches by
13 feet 6 inches and 1 story high—overthe kitch
en is a handfeme dining room. The fire insur
ance on the premises is £8:0. extends to the 4th
December 1799; the estate is fubjefl to annual
payment of £$. —PolTeflion can be had in a ve
ry short time, and security given (if required)
to make the purchaser a complete title—the
terms of payment will be one third cash, one
third in 6 months and the remainder in one or
two years with interest and security.
FOOTMAh & Co. auctioneers.
June i !
" tOR SALE,
On board the ship CLOTHIER, at Perot's
Wharf
Excellent Cheshire, and >
Double Gloucester i CHtESE »
In fine order — ALSO, a (evf Crates of
Queen's Ware,
Well alTorted for Families.
June 4 fIW
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
'James Yard.
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Wine,
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4 diot
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accustomed to marketing for a family—
bis age about thirty two years. For further parti
culars, apply at the office «f this Gazette,
may 15. §
TO BS SOLD,
By John Nixon Zsf Co.
A few hhds of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will be landed at Will ngs and Fran
cis* whajf cext Monday, the aiH instant.
may i 6« djteotf
%i)C (Bastttti
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Jo«t 6.
Yeflerday morning at ten o'clock the fune
ral of tlie late Nathan Bryan, Esq. mem
ber of Congress from the state of North Ca
rolina, moved from No. 105, Arch ftieet,
where lie died the preceding day, to the Bap
tist burying ground in Second (tree t, between
Market and Arch streets. The proceflion
moved as follows :
1. The two Chaplains to Congress.
1. Two Ministers of the Baptist Church.
3. The Cfcrpfe borne by 8 carriers, and at
tended by 8 Pall-Bearers.
4. The Speaker of the House of Represen
tatives preceded by the Serjeant at Arms
with his Mace, ard followed by the Clerk.
5. The members of the Honfe of Repre
sentatives two and two —the members from
North-Carolina forenioft.
5. The President of the Senate, preceded
by the Serjeant at Arms and Door keeper to
the Senate, and followed by the Secretary.
7. The Members of the Senate two and
two.
8- The heads and other principal officers of
the departments, two and two.
9. The attending Members of the Baptist
Church, two and two.
10. Other Citizens, two and two.
The Chaplains, Ministers, Pall-Bearers,
and the Speaker of the House of Representa
tives, wore white (carves over the right shoul
der, white scarves round theirhats, and white
gloves.—The Sergeant at Arms and Clerk of
the House of Representatives, wore white
scarves round their hats—and the Members of
the House of Representatives, wore black
crape fcarvesoll the left arm.
The Pall-Bearers, were—Mr. Martin of
the Senate —Mr. Locke, Mr. Gillefpie, Mr.
M'Dowell, Mr. Macon, Mr. Burgess, Mr.
Williams, and Mr. Blount, of the House of
Representatives.
At the grave, the Rev. Di. Rogers made a
short address, well adapted to the folsmnity of
the ceeafion.
MR. FENNO,
The f< llowing is a copy sf the oath taken
by one Thomas Leiper, tobacconist, before
the court of Common Pleas, as surety for
James Thomson Callender, cnan applicalios
of said Callender to be naturalized.
Thomas Leiper, tobacconist, of the city
of Philadelphia, being duly sworn accord- j
ing to law, doth depose ai d fay, that he
hath been well acquainted with James Thom
son Callendar, the within memorialist, for .
four years last past and upwards, that he !
hath, during that period, behaved at a i
man of good moral cha!after, attached to the
cenjlitvtion of the United States, and well dif- i
paftd to the good order and happineft of tht
fame !I
The Editor of the Aurora, to keep hit readers
in the dark as much as Boflible, not only omits
the publication of tbc.addrefTes to the govern
ment from almoll every part of the Union, hut in
addition to the jnjury done to his credulous cuf
tomers.mifreprefeots the meetings of the people by
fallhood and talutmiy,—as appears by the follow
ing.
ALBANY, MAT 28.
tnm the Aurora.—" A meeting has been held in
Albany, «t which the conduct of the President
was in every retpefl approved, and thofewhq
ventured la differ with them anathematized and
threatened. [ V Ll?,] To what lengths is this
political fanaricifm to carry us ? This is the reign
of terror (asfaras threats go) with a witness."
There wai never a town meeting held in which
more ord r and decorum were observed, or less
of party spirit—The citizens were of one mind,
and-the address to the President, which had the
signatures of about 800 citizens, was voluntarily
and with avidity figued by all the fr.eho'dcrs and
elefiors of Albany, who were at home when the
committee waited on them with the address—ex
cept from 15 to 30 only, who declined signing it.]
Fran the Albany Ctntinel.
A stupid democratic print remarks, that " ad
drefles to the President, both of approbation and
rrrr.anjirar.ii, are too numerous for insertion." This
brings to mind the llory of the man who told an
inquirer tliat himf.lf and his neighbor owned
1000 acres of land I—the neighbor, as the fa&
proved, owned 999 acres, and the other, one acre.
Since tbe publication of the dispatches we have
fecn but two productions, called remonfirancet —
while addresses of approbation have been commu
nicated, and are dill flowing in from all parts of
America.
A writer in the Connecticut Courant, in an ad
dress to Abraham Baldwia (member of Congress
from reply to a production of the said
Baldwin's, fays " You profefsto love our consti
tution—so does Mr. Jefferfon. Mr. Giles, Mr.
Nicholas, and Mr. Gallatin ; and you all {hew
your affedion very much like a man 1 once knew
who used to call his wife mt deak, whilst he was
whipping her."
Address of the Inhabitants of the Town of
Haverhill, Commonwealth of
MafTachufetts.
To THI PPESIDENTofthi UNITED STATES.
SI R,
WHILE we disapprove an interference
of the people with the admisiftration of oar
national government, we consider it our du
ty at this time to aflure you, that the mea
sures you have adopted and pursued, as firft
Magillrate of the union, have universally met
our hearty concurrence ; in full confidence
that those measures have been di&ated by
wisdom and the pure It principles of patno
tifm, we cannot withold the grateful ex
preflion of our thanks for your undeviating
firmuefs in their execution.
Your late exertions to redress our wrongs,
to accommodate differences unhappily > x
illing between this country and the French
Republic, to conciliate the affeftion of pur
all es, to preserve our neutrality, to eftablifli
our peace and happinels, and above all to
support the independence, dignity and free
dom of the United States, afford the highest
evidence of the justice and wisdom of your
adminiflration, and demand, in an eminent
degree, the gratitude of every patriotic
American.
We humbly deprecate the calamities of
war ; but when the fafety, the indepen -
dence, the freedom of our country require
it, we submit to the direftion of the go
vernment of our choice. Imploring the
blefljng of Heaven, we are prepared, with
our property and at the hazard of our lives,
to support our government, to vindicate our
rights, and to defend our country.
To the Inhabitants of the Town of Haverhill,
in the State of Majfachufetts.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for a refpe&ful and
affectionate address, which has been pre
sented to me by Mr. Bartlett, your Repre
sentative in Congress.
The inters rence of the people with the
administration of the national government,
in ordinary cases, would be not only useless
and unnecessary, but very inconvenient and
cxpenfive to them, if not calculated to dis
turb the public councils with prejudices,
paflions, local views, and partial
which would better be at reft ; but there
are some great conjun&ures, in which it is !
proper, and, in such a government as ours, j
perhaps neceflary. If ever such anoccafion |
can occur, the present is one.
Your aflurance to me that the measures I
have adopted, as ficft Magistrate of the uni
on, have uniformly met your , hearty ap
probation ; and your declaration that you
are prepared, with your property and at .
the hazard of your lives, to support your
government, vindicate your rights, and de
fend your country, are to me a great con
solation.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 4th, 1798-
The British cruizers have this Spring
made great havoc among the French priva
teers in the European Seas, and in the Weft-
Indies. These are individual lofTes which
must be severely felt, and in a short time
such success will entirely discourage the bu
siness.
For the Gazette of the United State:.
SONG.
VKRSC'I.
Come all Grenadiers whom your country invites,
To aflemblc in arms in defence of her right#,
Here Ut us determine to stand or to fall
By that glorious cause which maket brothers of all.
No force here compels us our paltimes to yield,
Ourfolveshy ourfelve# are called forth to the field.
Thsn let us ill range round Columbia's laws,
Resolved to live free or to die in her cause.
Thea let us &c.
vtmE a.
Remember our fathers with Wafliington fought,
Ani for us independence mod cKeei fully bought.
Let Us to our children be equally good,
And tranfmitlt,tf needful,enrich'dwith our blood.
That bUijfing by am/at for us was procured
And by union alone can by us be secured.
Then let us all rangt &c
VBKiE 3.
11 Divide end exterminate n long will prevail
As the maxim of tyrants where power may fail.
No force from their base can our liberties tear,
]£ united the banners of freedom we re r.
And though tentiments multiply under the fun,
Americans surely can now have but one,
With courage to range &c.
Tim 4.
Could Montgomery, Mercer and Warren behold
With what joy we the banners of freedom unfold,
Their blest shades would rejoice and with rapture
exc'aim—
-14 Our example.is followed and guarded our fame."
Let their conduA be held by each patriot dear,
And their virtues be equall'd by each Grenadier.
While we manfully range See.
VERS * 5.
Then brother with brother our arms we'll entwine,
And courage and discipline cheerfully join;
Let our steadiness prove those opinion? are just
Which place in our cond«& unlimited trust.
Ner so hard is the talk for mankind to be free,
Let's determine to be so, and pride bends the knee.
Then let us all range &c.
New-Tor I j June 5.
ARRIVED DAYS
Schr. Wm. & Joseph, Rhodes, Rich
mond 9
Sally, Wade, Wilmington 5
Fricndfhip, ——, St. John's N.B. 20
Hebe, Gregg, Havanua 17
Polly, Sharp, North-Carolina 4
Sioop Maria, King, Philadelphia
BOSTON, May 31,
Ex trad ofa letter from a gentleman oj good information in
Europe, dated Feb. 17,1798.
u There is no doubt that the French are indefafiga
bly working to raise an infurrc&ion at Hamburgh, a
gainft^heprefent government. Among the means
they are using for the purpose, I (hall particularly no
tice at present, only the eftablifhraent of zTAto-phi
lanthropic Sociaty.
It is a theological and political mixture of deism,
morality, antt-chrifttanity and revolution, that the
do&rine preaches. It is under the special encourage
ment and protection of the French direftory. La
reveillere Lepaux is one of its founders. He is a
profefled and bitter enemy of Christianity, againil
which he has read a long and tedious diflertation, to
the national institute.
••The Paris prints have latelyafferted that Dupont ;
De Nemours is going to America, with the intention of
fettingupaTheo.philanthropic Society. He has been
to the society at Paris to request of them a copy of
that which contains their do&rines and constitution
Dupont de Nemours was one of the unfortunate
membcrsof the legifl«tive aflcmbly, upon whom the
Fru&idor revolution fell.- He was not like the others
condemned to transportation or even expelled he was
permitted to his feat, and by yielding to tne
torrent, escaped its dellruftive fury. He is the man,
who, while a member of the legifli'uie, was so anx
ious to have France pursue a I)ftem of conciliation to
ward the Americans,- so as to induce them to chufe
for theirPrefident, a man devoted to France.
•' If Dupont is going to America, w th the deGgn
mentioned, he has made his peace with the dire&ory
and wil. be a diligent servant to them on your fide of
the Atlantic."
LONDON, April 13.
A fubfeription is begun at Peterfburgh,
as a voluntary contribution for the defence
of this country. The British Fa&ory have
headed the lift with a donation of 20001.
Mr. Ward had fubferibed ioool. in addition,
and numerous individuals were daily adding
their various when the lalt advices
came from that place.
On Tuesday an overland dispatch was re
ceived at the East-India House, by which
we have the fatiifa&ion of learning that ev
ery thing was in a tranquil and prosperous
state in that quarter of the globe.
April 12.
At eight o'clock this morning, Mr. O'
Connor, Qwgley» alias O'Coigley, alias
1 Fevey, Birins, Allen and Leary, were bro't
to the bar, When Mr. Justice Buller inform
ed them that a bill of indi&ment for high
treason had been found again (I them ; that
the Court would adjourn to the 30th inft.
0/1 which day they w©uld be arraigned ; and
that it was pfobable that their trial would
take place on the following day. If thg
prisoners had to make any request of the
court, it was now a proper time to bring it
forward.
Mr. O'Connor said, he wiflied to know
if he was informal in a/king, whether his
trial could not be put off to a later day, as
he might have ocdafion to bring witncffes
from Ireland 1
Mr. Justice Bu Her answered, that the
Court had nothing to fay to that ; J>ut if
he wiflied to have Counsel assigned him it
could now be done.
Mr. O'Connor replied, that his lordfllip
had afl<ed if he had any thing to pray, and
he had only desired to know if he was in
formal in alking a delay of his trial ; his
confinement had been so close, that he had
no opportunity of adviling with his friends
refusing his counsel.
Qnigley fa.d, that Mr. Foulkes, his soli
citor, was on the road, and he wilhed to fee
him ; on which the Court made an order for
Mr- Foulkes to be admitted to him.
Binns dffired that Mr. Gurney might be
assigned as one of the Count! • Alien made
the fame request for Mr. Fergulon ; and Je
remiah Leary for Mr. Scott.—The Court
gave orders accordingly.
Mr. Simmons, of Rochester, had been
previouflyappoiritedfolieitor for Mr. O'Con
nor and Leary ; and Mr. Bonney, for Binnr
and Allen.
The Jews ire going, it is fair!, to erefl by
subscription a monument to the memory of lord
George Gordon.
Napper Tandy has teen appointed a Brigadier
General in the French fervicc.
A letter from Peterlburgh, March 4, fays—
" The Ute sumptuary Ukafas, continue to be
enforced with unremitting rigour. The empe
ror Paul has also published his prayer book,
which abounds with Annotations, full of piety
and devotion)!
" By an imperial manifefto, the Krim, and
the whole of Tauria, including the ports pfEu
patoria and Fefbofia, are declared open for the
trade of ail nations."
The Porte i» threatened with new dangers—
t rebellion having broken out in the Morea, and
the greater part of the Greeks there joined the
insurgents.
The Turkish ambaffadar at Vienna, distribut
ed to the poor, fifty florins a day, for a whole
\<;eek, to encourage them to pray for the p: efer
vation of the Archduchess Elizabeth.
The French army at Home having refufed to
fervt under general Maflena (who i» univerfallw
execrated), is bow commanded by general Al
lemagne.
The tribunal of correal ion at Gap in France,
has condemned Pierre Maiel, late Vicar of Ta
lard, and Philip Tardi, Ex-Augulline, to a hea
vy fine and fix months impril'onment each for
performing religious worfttip, without preViouf
iy making the declaration required by law.
The fame tribunal sentenced Etienne Mazel,a
notary to a fine, and one months impr'ifonment
for having (permitted mass to be celebrated in
his house, without making the requisite declara
tion.
General Cafalta has returned to Genoa, after
having reduced Corsica to complete fulimiflion.
He took Giaiferi, chief of the rebels, prisoner,
and consigned him to a military commifiion fitt
ing at Baltia.
Upwards of two thousand for balls were
liccnfed at Paris during the eourfe of lalt year.
At one of them, called des bats a la viftime,
nose were admitted but fueh as had Inft by the
Guillotine a Father ! a Mother I a Husband I a
Wife ! a Brother ! or a Sifter !
A French Journal contains the following cia
t alter 0/' the Youths of Paris :
They are mean, idle, gluttonous, envious,
detractive, credulous, and as much the slaves of
ennui themselves as thecaufe of it in others; in
solent end gross in their behaviour towards wo
men ; cowardly, embarrafled in their behaviour
with patriots ; presumptuous, and
u hen in a msfs; fools and affrighted when a lane.
Should they eontir.ue ten years as they are, they
will be the opprobium, the (hame, the scandal,
and the refufe of the French nation.
LONDON, April 28.
Barrere has publilhed a new work enti
tled The Liberty of the Seas, or the Eng
lilh government untnalked, two volumes in
o&avo, of joo pages. This work has a map
of the world prefixed to it, in which the pof
feifions of England in various parts of (he
world are distinguished in red.
When General Menard firft desired the
committee of the insurgents of the Pays de
Vaud to pay a contribution amounting near
ly to 4J ,0001, the demand was xronfidered
rather exorbitant. Even the violent
democrats were heard to confefs, that French
liberty was a dear commodity.
The French sent 16,000 picked men to
take pofleffion of Rome : and so infatuated
were the inhabitants, that they made not
the lead preparation to repel their invaders
but foolilhly hoped, even when the Freneh
were at the gates, that some miracle would
be worked for their deliverance.
Fourteen conftitntional societies are for
ming in the variaH- wards of Rome, for the
purpose of inftrufting the people.
The Duke of Parma, it is said, is serious
ly indifpofsd.
Louis XVIII. arrived at Mittau on the
22d ult.
A letter from Rochefort states, thatlGil
bert Defmoliers,ci-dtvant member of the
legislative body, and about 200& other per
sons; condemned to tranfportation(among
whom are several priefts)have been embar
ked at Rochefort for Cayenne.
On the 22d inft. Pifon de Galaud was
elected president ofthe council of Five Hu
ndred.
I hree hundred persons were arrested at
Orleans on the 29th Ventofe.
The directory have publilhed a decree or
dering the arrcit of citizens Stappeur, Ter.
rond, Artaud, and Lefebve, Laffere at Li
sle, accused of treasonable practices.
NAPLES, March 9. |
The French general Belard has arrived
here, and demanded, in the name
French republic, apadage through the Nea
politan territory for a body of French
troops to Benevento. He had a long con
ference with our minister, the marquis de
; Gallo, but no definitive resolution was
taker.
An embargo has been laid on all the
feluccas in our harbours.wßWirww pn'.i l i'J
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 6.
The following Refactions were this day laid
before the House of Representatives, by Mr.
D. Foster.
WHERE AS the French Republic, re
gardless of those pnneiples of good faith
which ought to ensure a due observance of (
tre:<tigs, have, in various instances, violated ,
the exprffs stipulation of the treaties here- i
tofore made or fubfiltirig between the Uni- j
ted Stales and the French nation, in a man- ,
ner highly injurious to the interest and honor ,
of the Unittfd States ; by reason whereof
the United States are released from all ob
ligation on their part to refpeifl the said ,
treaties, or t > confer themselves as holden
or bound thereby,
Refolded, That it is expedient to make a
legislative declaration notifying the citizens
of the United States, and all others con
cerned, that the said treaties are no longer
obligatory upon the United States.
Rtfolved, That provision to
be made by law, authorizing the Prrfident
of the United States to grant letters of
marq e and reprisal againfl: all (hips & other
vefiels, with their cargoes, found on the
high seas, failing nndcr the authority of the
Frendh , Republic, or belonging to the said
Rtpublic, oi any of til;: eiiizens thereof, or
itsdepcndcncies—to continue andibein force
util the French government (hall revoke and
annul the orders and decrees authorizing the
capture and detention of the veflels and pro
perty of the citizens of the United States,
contrary to the laws of nations.
Resolved, That provision ought to be
ttiadc by law granting a bounty, in propor
tion to the size and number of gins, on all i
armed veflels (which fh :11 be taken and bro't'
into any of the ports of the United States) i
belonging to the republic of France, or to
any of the citizens thereof, e'r of its de
pendencies—or to others failing., under the
authority, or pretence of authority, from
the fiiid republic.
[Ordered to be printed. J
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. 11.
A Lijl of Blanks and Prizes.
170 th Day's Drawing—l 7.
No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls.
936 14444 13811 39981
1106 781 -2497? 40175
317 9i* 15*38 4J75 0
1207 X IJ24t X 769
441 416 x 16150 ' 771
713 be 16113 593 845
9J3 408 700 x 919 io
3"19 x 584 x 17321 4H73 *
304 17117 6'5 J4I
631 493 7.70 694 X
4883 18094 x * 18290 43031
5196 560 356 071 X
468 x 924 x ,606 »7J *
843 x 19650 896 191
6816 192 x 940 x in
7095 x 387 19333 9"
66j tno66 x 334 97 1
8:21 548 570 x 44210
3'S 584 826 . 288
371 20 6fß '3*7*3 x 5 8
936 7JO "• 99" x '4s!Bt
999 77* 3237? 138 v
93 S.i 214=8 6j4 587
475 443 760 x 669 x
7>B .547 33366 739 *
J43 969 x 638 46005 x
Io8.;8 12053 x 34201 C 65
8:4 'J* x 322 964 x
9351 x 273" 602 x 47044 25
II <O6 450 x 775 406
494 589 35080 48020 X
12106 60.7 .513 181
494 it 743 100 366*0 20 205
801 820 886 492'7
13T78 969 37202 x 413
68>< 15-211 249 Bc4
768 x 384 x 271
924 x 651 893
N OTIC E,
ALL ftcrfons indebted to the cftateof Sufan
ah McDowtl, widow, deceased are re
quested to make immediate payment and ail
those who have any demands agsir fl said estate,
to present their accounts duly attested to Patrick
Lineham.
Reverend Leonard Weal, )
Patrick Lineham, \
may 31 *cod;jt
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an* Bank of United States
Stock, were forwardtd from England per
the Countef* of Leic«fier Packet, in rhe nth
month, X 797, which vcffel has been captured,
and the Certificatesfuppefed robs loft.
4000
books of the Treasury, in the nanae of jiird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96 ;
Tea Shares Stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, '707.
For l the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at the Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interefied
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. a 6, 1798.
2iw3m
Canal Lottety, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a we A, every Monday iff. Tuesday
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are kept for examination r.nd
registering in thi?, City of Waftiington No. %.
and Patcrfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
-4 thorifed by law in any of the States of the
Union.
State of the Wheel<
' One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
Five j 4,0v/0 20,000
Two 2,000 4»ooo
.Nine i,oco 9,0c0
Nineteen 500 95°°
Forty-fur 200 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets will loon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the whe#l
until the last day of drawing.
Note, the business of a Proker duly at
tended to in ail its branches at the above office
may 24 w&stf
%\jz Csa3cttc. r
1
PHILADELPHIA, J
W EDNESDAY EVENING, June 6. :
" j
Yesterday, the House of Representatives '
of the United States was engaged most of ] -
the fitting in difcufir-g the bill for regu- |
lating the compensation of officers employed ; t
in the cclle6tit)ii of the Internal Revenue of 1
the United States, aad to provide for the 1
more effe&ual settlement of their accounts, j x
It was got "hrcugh in the committee of the ; j
whole a. d reported, but not taken up in ! j
the house.
On molion of Mr. Rutledoe the house I
came to a resolution, to go into a mourn- t
ing ror a month, in order to Hi w their res- 1
pe<£t to Nathan Bryan, deceafcd; mem- i j
ber from North-Carolina, by wearing a (
peace of crape on the left-arm. I
In tbe course of the fitting, the President 1
of the United States communicated to the [ 1
house the following mefiage in writing, of; 1
which 1200 copies were ordered to be prin- 1
ted. ]
Gentlemen of the Senate and ;
Gentlemen of the House ot Representatives, 1
1 now trani'mtt to both Houses, the com
munications from our Envoys at Paris, re- j
ceived since the lalt, which have been pre- j
fented by me, to Cong-reft,
JOHN ADAMS.
Uni t'dStates, stb June, 1798*
Dear Sir, Paris, March 9th, 1798. '
Agreeably to what we reprefeuted to you in our '
No. 6, we prepared a letter to the Miniiter of Fo- 1
reign A {fairs, on the fubje& of the lute law au
thorizing the capture of neutral vefTeis, on board 1
of which any produ&ions of Great Britain, or its
poflefiinns, should be laden, (hewing how incom- 1
patible such law was with the rights of neutral
nations, and the treaty between France and y\me-- 1
rica, its dire& tendency to de j-oy the remaining
commerce of our country, and the particular hard-
Ibipsto which it would; fubje<sl the agricultural as ;
V/elf as'fcimmercial of our countrymen,
from' the peculiar fitttatjqn.of the United States. NVe
I added,'that under emitting .ciicumftances, we could '
' no longer resist the convudion that the derr.ands'.of
FrancV rendered it entirely impraCUaable to effe'dl '
the objeds of our million, and that not being per
manent min'fters, ; but Enyoys Extraordinary witli
fullpower for we deemed it ifti-'
proper-to remain longer jn France after the'ifrtpoPi
bility ofefftAingtfeofe.purpofes had bean'dertonflrii
| ted. Before however, we took this measure and ex-*
-pHcitly demanded our passports. We. deemed it ex
-pedient to desire major Rutledge to call oh *mr. *
Talleyrand, on the 19th ult. to know if he had any
1 cowo*unication to make 10 us in consequence of our
j, letter dated ;the 17th and delivered the 31ft of Jan.
To this mr. Tally rand replied, that he had no an
swer to make, as the directory h d not taken takeu
any order 011 the fubjaft, and when they did, he
would inform us of it Still being anxious to hear
explicitly from mr, Tallyrand himfelf before lent
our final letter, whether there were no means with
in our power, of -accommodating our differences
wlth : France on just and reason able grounds, we'
wrote to him on the 2.7 th of fdlidftmg
a personal iuterview on the fubjed of our million ;
he appointed the ad of March following. You
will find in the exhibit a, herewith inolofed, what
passed on that occaflon.. On. the 4th
rsquefted another interview : Wa have detailed in ,
the latter part of |he sam« exhibit, for your infor
mation, the substance of that conversation.
From these accounts you may obfcrve, that the
views of France, with regard to-us, are not essen
tially changed since oar communications with its
unofficial agents in prober last.
IVe have the bo/tor to be, With greit refptft,
Your mofl'obedient bumble J,ervants,
C HAH IBS COT"ES WORTH PINCZtT,
J. MARSHALL, E GERRY. '
Col. Pickering, Sec. United States.
A.
March the second. At three o'clock we ;
waited 011 Mr. Talleyrand, and were aimoft
immediately introduced to him.
Pinckney commenced "the conversation, by
faying, that our government, and ourselves j
were extremely anxious to remove the ftib- I
lifting difference between the two republics \ !
that we hadreceived many propositions, thro* |
Mr- Y. to whigh w.e.had it impVactic?a- ;
ble to accede ; and that we had now warted
on him for the purpose of enquiring whether,
other means might not be deviled which .
would effect so defirabl*object'. Tjie
.rninifter replied, that without doubt, the.-Di
rectory wished vefy fincerelyV on onr arrival,
io fee a solid friendfhip eflablifhed between
France and the United States, and, had marti- -
fefted this dilpoTition, ty tjis readmd's witli
which orders for our passport were given.
That the Diredtoty had bee7l exrremely
wounded by the last speech of .General W'afh
ingtpn, made to Ccngrefs when about to"qiiit
rhe office of President of the United States ;
and by the firft and last speech of Mr. Adams.
That explanations of vhefe speeches were ex
pected and required ofiiS. General Pinckney
expressed his surprize that the speech of Ge
neral Waftiington was complained of ; and
laid this was a new complaint. Mr. Tal
leyrand merely observed, thai: the Directory
was wounded at it; and proceeded. He said
that the original favorable disposition of the
Directory had been a good deal altered by the
coldness anddiftance which we had observed.
That instead of feeing him often, and endea
vouring to remove the obstacles to a mutual
approach, we had not once waited or. him.
General Pinckney observed, that when we
delivered him oilr letters of credence, he in
formed us that the DireCtcry, in a few days,
would decide concerning us, and that when
the decision was made he would communicate
It to us. That this had for some time fuf
peMed any proceedurc on our pirt. He an
iwered that this related only to our public
character, and not to private visits. General
Pinckney said, that on an application made
by hisfecretary fora passport for an American
his care, he was told that he mult ap
ply to the office of police, for that America
had no minifler in France, since the recall of
Mr. Monroe. Th> minister said that was ve
ry true ; and then proceeded to fay, that the
Directory felt itfelf wounded by the different
fpeech&s ot Mr. Washington and Mr. Adams,
which he had stated, and would require some
proof, on the part of the United States, of a
friendly disposition, previous to a treaty with
us. He then said thatfhe ought tofcarch for
and propose some means which might furnifh
this proof ; that if we were disposed to fur
nifh it there could be no difficulty % in finding
it ; and he alluded very intelligibly to a loan.
He said he had several conferences with Mr.
Gerry on this lubjeft, who had always an-'
fwered that we had no power. Mr. Gerry
said that he had slated other objections; that
he had particularly urged that it wtfuld in
volve us in a war with Great Britain. He
made no reply ; and Gen. Pinckney observ
ed, that a loan had been suggested to us j but
| that we had utH'lomily atifwered, that it ex- ~
ceeded our powers. j (
Mr. Talleyrand replied, that persons at , (
i such a distance as we were from eur govern- ! f
men', and poflefled as we were of the public ■
confidence, mult often use their discretion,
and exceed their powers, for ihe.jgublic good. '
That thereTJas a rlidtirfal difference between 1
afting where inltruCtioiis were silent, and do- 1
ing wtut was particularly Forbidden, that if i
indeed a loan was pofitivelv forbidden, we <
might conlider ourselves as incapable of male- -
ing one j but if, as he supposed was the cafe |
(he looked the question) our inftrnCtions were
only lilenf, that it must be referred to us to
ait in a cafe not provided for, according to 1
the bell of ourjudgment, for the public gobd : ■'
that in almoi,.ill the treaties made duri.ng.tht ■
revolution, the negociators had exceeded I i
their powers; although the government ap
pointing them wasat no conliderable distance. j j
He particularized the treaty with Pruflia, and | (
several others. General Pinckney told him
that oup powers did not extend toaioan, and I
perhaps might forbid it. The Minister (till j
urged the difference between an express pro- j
hibition, and mere silence. He then proceed- ! 1
ed to (tate that the principal objection on the i 1
part of our Government to a loan must be, I ]
that it would draw us nut of the neutral litua- 1 ,
tion in which we wiflied to continue : that ,
there were various means of evading tins j ,
firlt, the secrecy of France, which might be ,
relied on ; and fecondlv, means of disguising '
the loan might bedeviled, which would ef- j
feCtually prevent its being considered as an '
aid during the present war : that if we were '
truly and fincerdy delirous of effecting the '
thing, we Ihould experience no difficulty in <
finding the means. Ae again Hated t> propo- ,
fition of this fort, on our part as being abfo
-lutely necedary to prove that tlie government
was not about entering into a treaty with per
-fons of a temper hostile to it. MV. Gerry not 1
well hearing mr. Talleyrand, who fpokelow,
asked him to explain himfelf with respeCt to :
the proposition which he had alluded to, flip- '
-paling it to be a new one : and lie answered, ,
that one of them was secrecy; but that there ; ,
were besides various ways which might easily |
be suggested to cover the loan as an imniedi- !,
-ate one, by.limiting the lime of advancing it | .
todiftant inftalmcnts Mr. Gerry observed, \ '
that Dutrimond had fuggellcd that a loan was j
propof.d to be made payable after the war,
and irvfupplies ts St. Domingo. Mr. Tal
leyrand fignified, that that might be one of
the mjans tifed ; and said that it we were on
:iy sincere in our wiffi, it would b« cafy to
bring ab ont th e e nd.
(general Marshall told Mr. Talleyrand,
that if tlie;Mimfters of the United States
liad manifefted.any tmwillingnefs to take
aU'proper v HiQans to reconcile the two re
•publitA, or any indifference on the sub-
they had very badly represented the
Teeii.ngs and wishes of their government;
that the government of the United
States, was most tincerely delirous of pre
serving the friendfliipof France,"andhad,
in his opinion, unequivocally manifefted
that delire', by having deputed us under
the cxeraordinary circumstances attend
ing bur milTion, atjd ,h,y having so long
patiently borne .the immenfc lofsof pro
perty which had been sustained ; that We
had endeavoured,- according to the belt of
our judgment, to represent truly the dif
jfofition of our government ; but tnat we
undef-ftood that Frdnce would consider
nothing as an evjdfnce.of ;£riend£hip, but
ap aft which, would tranfeend and- - vj<slate' '
out'powers, and at the fame time operate ;
the mod feviouS injury to.our country ;
that neutrality J inthe present War, was of
the last importance to the United States ;
and. they had resolved faithfully to main--
tain it-; that they had committed no aft,
Voluntarily, which was abrca<;h ofit; and
could do nothing jjj fecretj which, if
known, would just', v-ai range them among
the belligerent powers ; that in the pre
sent state of thjngs, if America was aftu
< ally leagued. wijh-Fra-nce in the war, she
I would only be required to furnijh mp--
I Tlßy that we had neither war or
j men to be employed in it ■ and could corr
| ftquently, as a belligerent power, only be
| asked for money ; that therefore, to fur-,
j nifh money, was, in -faft;" to'mafce War ; .
j which we could by no'ttiearrs cbnf.ent to
I do ; and which -Would abfol.utely trah
! Icend our powers ; being an aft altogether.
wirhoiit the view and contemplation of
our government when our million' was
depided on : that with refpeft to supplies
to Saint Domingo, no doubt coulti be en
. tertained. that our merchants would fur
nifh them_ very abundantly, if Frairce
would permit the commerce ; and a loan
really payable after the Close of the war,
might then be" negociated. Mr. Talley
rand again marked the diffcirielion be
tween silence of inftruftions and an ex
press prohibition ; and again infilled on
the neceflity of our proving, by some
means which we mud offer, our friend
fhip for the republic. He said he must
exaft from us, on the part of his govern
ment, some proposition of this Wrt ; that
to prove our friendfhip, there must be
some immediate aid, or lomething which
might avail them ; that the principles of
reciprocity would require it. Gen. Pinck
ney and Gen. Marshall underflood him, by
this expression, to allude to the loan for
merly made by France to the U. States.
Mr. Gerry, at the time, thought he al
luded to the treaty U> be made, and said
all treaties should be founded in reci
procity, and then asked him whether a
loan was the ultimatum of this govern
ment. Mr. Talleyrand did not give a
direst aniwer to the question : he said,
as he was underflood, that the govern
ment insisted on some a£t which would
demonflrate our friendly dilpofition to
wards, and our good wishes for the Re
public : this once done, he said, thead
juftment of complaints would be easy;
that would be matter of enquiry, and if
France had done uj wrong, it would be
repaired. But that if this was refufed,
, j it would increale the diftancc and cold
i ness between the two Republics. The
conversation continued in this style un
i til four o'clock, when we took our leave,
and agreed to meet. in the evening. In
' the courle of it, and in reply io some
observations of Mr, Talleyrand, refpeft
ing the proofs of friendfhip required by
! France, General Pinckney observed.
t that our being herc„was a mark of the
- friendly dilpofition of our government;
c j and that while-we were here, the govern
• I ment had parted a decree for seizing- neu
t ' tral veffcls having on board any article
coming out of England, which in its '
operation* Would iubjeit to capture ail 1
our property on the ocean. Mr.Til lev-
rand replied, that this was not particular (
to us, but was common to all the neti- j
tral power;. \t another timcy-m anl- ,
wer to his demand of some ran!, if our
friendfhip. General Marshall observed, t
that we considered the mutual interests t
of the two nations as requiring peace '
and friendfhip ; and we relied on finding '
fufficient motives inthc intereflof France '
•topreferrethat friendfhip,withoutforcing j
us loan aft, which tranfeeudedourpowers c
and would befo injurious to pur country. (
As we were tan ing our leave, Mr. Talley- (
rand again noticed our not visiting him, i
and said, that he conceived onr not hay- I
ing had an audience from the Direftory '
ought not to have prevented it. General '
Marshall told him, that our feeing the .
Djreftory, or not, was an objeft of no |
fort of ctSicern to us ; that we were | ,
perfeftly indifferent with regard to it; I
but that we conceived* that until our j
public character was in some degree re- ;
cognized, and we were treated as the mi- j
niflers and retire fen tat iV es of our go- !
vernmcnt, we could not take upon our- j
selves to act as mini flers, because by do
ing so, we might subject durlelves to
some injurious circumflances to which
we could not submit. He said that was
very true; but we m'ight fee him as pri
vate individuals,'and discuss the objects
of difference between us.
We requested of Mr. Talleyrand ano- 1
ther interview, at such hour as might be
convenient to him, on the sixth instant.
He answered, that he would receive us
at half pall eleven ; at which hour we
attended him.
Immediately after our arrival at his
office-, we were introduced to the Mi
nifler, and General Pinckney stated, that
we had considered, with the mo ft serious
attention, the conversation we had had the
honor of holding with him, a few days
past: that the proportions he had sug
gested, appeared to us to be fubflantially
the fame with thole which had beers made
by Mr. X, by Mr. Y, and also to Mr. Gerry,
with an intention that they fliould be commu
nicated to his colleagues ; that we consider
ed it as a proposition, that the 0. States should
! furniill aid to France, to be used during the
present war: that tho' it was unusual to dis
close infractions, yet we would declare to
that in addition to its being a liieafui'e
amounting to a declaration of war againfl
Great Britain,we were expressly forbidden by
our intfruition to take such a step.
The minifler said, in the tone of question,
he supposed our inflrudtions were to do no
thing which would amount to a departure
from our neutrality.—General Pinckney said,
that we were so inftrufted ; and that they
were Hill more particular. Mr. Talleyrand
then proceeded to argue, that it would be |io
departure from neutrality, toflipulate a loan
payable after the war : and spoke of it clearly
as admitting of application to immediate use.
He said a good deal of the secrecy with which
the tranfactioa might be cloathed ; and obser
ved further,, that a loan payable after the war,
would lie a proof of our faithful observance
of the duties of neutrality ; since it would be
JSPnfidered as proving that' we had rejected
;propofitions {6r an immediate loan. General
Marshall replied, that we thought differently ;
that in our opinion, any aft on the part of the
American Government, on which one of the
belligerent powers could raise money for im
mediate afe, would be funiifliing aid to that
power, and would be taking part in the war.
It Would"! be, in to take the only part
which, in the exifling slate of things America
could take. This was our deliberate opinion,
and in addition to it, we considered our in
(lructionS is csucluftve-on thispoint.
He observed, that we had claims on the
French Government, for property taken from
American citizens. Some of those claims
were probably jufl. He alked,,if they were
acknowledged by France, whether we could
not "give a credit as to the payment, fay tor
tvvo years We answered that we coiild. He
then infirtetj that it was precisely the fame
'thing, that by such an ait we should consent
to leave inthe hands of Trance, funds to u Inch
'our citizens-wer; entitled, and which might
be nfed in the profceuiion of the war. Gen.
Puiikney said tliere was a difference between
the cases; that such prizes were now actually
in the power of the French, without our con
sent, we could not prevent it, or get them
our; but the granting or not granting a loan
was in our power. He repeated his observati
on, and GeneraJ Mardiall said that the pro
perty for which money was due to American
citizens from the French Government, was
taken into the pofTcllion of that government
without any co-operation on the part of the
United States.
No aft of any fort was performed by our
Government, which in any degree contribut
ed to place those funds in the hands of France,
nor was there any consent tow ards it ; but in i
the cafe proposed, the aft would be the aft
of the Government; the Government could
itfelf place funds in the hands of France ; and
thereby furnifh means which might be em
ployed in the prolecution of the war. This
waithe difliniStion between the cases, and in
a queltion of neutrality, it appeared to us to
be all important. The Miniller then pro
ceeded to ftaje the cafe of our alfuming the
debt of our citizens, and of paying the money
in that manner : but General Pinckney arid
Mr. Gerry told hi in we were positively forbid
den to assume the debt to our. oy.'n citizens,
even if we were to pay the money direilly to
them. He seemed surprized at th's. Gene-
obferved, that contrary to ulage,
we had deemed it proper, in the exiting slate
of things, to state candidly our powers to
him, that he might know certainly that we
could not secretly, or under any difguifeh wat
! ever, make a loan which might be used dur
j ing the war.
Mr. Talleyrand said he must resume his po-
I fition, that there was a difference, which lie
i must insist upon, between a loan payable im
• : mediately, and a loan payable in future ; and
\ he (till infilled there was no difference between
i a loan payable in future and a credit for the
J money which might be due to our citizens.—
■ Mr. Gerry observed that his colleagues had
: jufUy stated the distinction between the debt
which will be due to the citizens of the Uuit
ed States from France, in cafe of her recog
nizing the claims which we shall make in their
behalf, and a debt which might arise from a
loan by the Government of the United States
to that of France, during the war. The one
is the result of an arrelt of their property with
out their consent, the other would be a vo
luntary aft of the Government of the United
i States, and a breach of their neutrality.—
■ There is an additional objection to the latter ;
■ if the United States should make such a loan,
; it would give too much reason to suppose that
their Government had cctifented, "in a c 6'•,-'
five maiin.'r, to the capture of ihe-vellels .if
their citizens, and had tluis U-eu turn
France \Vi'tli frtppfies to carry on the war. ■
Our 1 fnftruftions are exprel'St not '<> llipulaff
for tiny aids to France, either directly or iuji -
reflly, during the war.
With relpecl to a secret flipulation, a loutl
cinnot be 'made without an act of the ♦egifla
ture : but if the executive were adequate til
it, we have had an rnllance btaninjunction of
secrecy on members of the Senate, on an iui
portant fubjeel, which one of the
thought himfelt warranted *ll publishing iii
the news-papers ; and of frequent infantes
ot fee rets which have otherwile efcaped't se
crecy, in this infance,' might therefore be
considered, if the measure was in itfelfadtijifs
ible, as being impracticable. General Mar-*
(hall oblerved, that we had considered the
subjeCt with great solicitude, and were decid
edly of opinion, fhat we could nor, under any
form, make a loan which Could be used dur
ing the war ; that we could no't tell what out 1
government would do, if on the spot ; but
were perfectly clear, that without additional
orders, we could not do what France requeu
ed. Mr. Gerry observed, that the govern
ment and nation of the U uited States, as well
as ourselves, were earnestly folicitbus to re
flore triendfllip between the two republics;
that, as Gen. Marshall had dated, we could
not fay what our government would do, if on
the spot; but if this proposition met the willi
es of the government of France, General
Marshall and himfelf bad-agreed immediately
to embark for the United States, and lay be
tore our government the exifling fate of
things here, as it relpeiled our nation, to en
able them todeterminewhelherany, and what!
other measures on their part were neceliary.
Mr. Talleyrand made no observation on this
proposition : but enquired whether we ex
pected soon to receive orders. Mr. "Gerry
mentioned an answer lie had received tea let
ter sent by him in November; aiid General
Marshall fated, that pur firft dif'patches were
sent on board two vessels at AmfteTdam, oil
the twentieth of November ; from which
Mr. 1 alleyrand could form as ju(t an idea as
we could, when an answer might be expect
ed : but he did not think it probable one
would arrive befuri a month to come. Ge
neral Marshall told hint, we knew that. >ntr
'government had liot reqeived our d-fpa'tches
on the eighth ot January ; and we could not
tell when tfiey might be received. rie afkfd
whetheroitrintelligence came through Eng
land. Gefferal Marshall answered that it did
not; and General Pinckney said, that Ame
rican papers as late a-s the eighth of January
mentioned the fait.
There was some ConVersation about the
time when tliefe inflructions might be expec
ted ; and General Marshall fuggefled a doubt
whether our Government might give any in
flruifions. He asked, with some surprise,
whether we had not written for inflructions f
And we answered, that we had not t and Mr.
Gerry said that we had fated fails to our go
vernment, and conceived that nothing more
was neceflaiy. General Pinckney obierved,
that the Government knowing the fails,
would do what was proper ; and that our ap
plying or not applying for inftruftions wonld
not alter their conduil. Mr. Talleyrand then
enquired whether we had not sent any one to
the United Ststes. General Pinckney said
no : and Mr. Gerry added, that soon after
our arrival we had made propositions to fend
one of our nnmber, which were not accepted.
And General Marshall further added, rhat
those who had communicated with us, had
told 11s we should be ordered out of France
immediately ; and we had supposed that we
should be ordered ofutbefore our letters could
reach the government. Mr. Gerry then ob
served, that the Government of France mult
judge for itfelf ; but that it appeared to him,
that a treaty on liberal principles, such as those
on which the treaty of commerce between the
two nations was firft edablilhed, would be in
finitely more advantageous to France than the
trifling advantages file could derive from a,
loan. Such a treaty would produce a friend
fhipand attachment, on the part of the Uni
ted States to France, which would he solid
and permanent, and produce benefits farm-,
periorto those of a loan, if we bad powers to
make it. To this observation Mr. Talley
rand made no reply. Weiarted without any
sentiment delivered by the miniflsr on the
f'ubject of our going home to consult our go -
vernment.
As we were taking our leave of, Mr. Tal
leyrand, we told him that two of its would
return immediately, to receive the' inHruili*
ons of our government, if that would be a
grecable to the Directory : if it was not, we
would wait some tinie, in the expectation of
receiving iafl ruCtions.
A letter from Chailefton of the 27th ult.
to a gentleman of this city, fays, " It is cur
rently reported here that General Jackson,
Governor of Geotgis, has been killed in a
dutl with Mr. Seagrove."
Extra P. of a Utter from Ne-zu-York, datei
yeflerilay.
" .The Thetis frigate, rapt. Cochran, has ta
ken off Block-iflanil, a Flench privsteer of 8
guns; and 80 men * Block-lflaitd is to the eall
ward of Long-Hland."
Bac'ne f-ys our Envoys at Paris are nego.
dating. The dupes of the falfehoods con
tained in the Aurora, believe a d circulate
themevmat the foat of government!—
What effeft mult they have at a dillance on
those who read no other publication ?
Truth has no chance with tlie faeobins—
their papers do not present a just mirror of
1 the public opinion—They either withhold
from their readers that inf.irmation 11 which
they are entitled, or give it to them in a
form calculated to deceive, inflame, and
: precipitate to their diflruction.
THE STATE OF F R ANC E \
IN N INETY-SEVEN.
Monroe after his recal, being asked whe
ther the people of France 'lid not wiflt for
' Peace, in opposition to the Government,—
replied, that there could be no doubt that
nine tenths of the People were hrartjiy lick
I and tired'of the War; but added he, "the
t People of France areconfideredas NO THING,
. and the Government as EVERY TH/A G."
Is a more degrading cftimate of the People
r made in Tuikey ?
J Mud Fort, June 6.
In the fchr. Neptune, caps. Waterman,
" came p ffenger from Carthagena, in South
' America, v;a Aux-Cayes, captain Henry
" Rolando, of Chariefton, S. C. after being
detained there for near two years in a law
t suit.FOR SALE,
II TBE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captcin Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties
Qorahs Mow Sannas
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
Tickiries Baftas
Romalls ColTas
Doreas Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordecai Lewis.
may 15. daw jaw aw
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN» FOR SALE BY
Alex. J: Miller iff Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
tnay 18.
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlrcet.
HAVE received by the (hip BeWidere from
London, a quantity of Ruflia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glafgoar, an aJTortment of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Luteflrings, and a variety of India Muslins.
may it, d.^w
Frefli 1 eas.
J 11ft Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, b\
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hi 3 Comptiag House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Coiupting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflorted ; black and coloured Lute
flrings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caflfia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Harilkerchi«f«,
French Canabricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
' marrh 8.
"This day Publijhed,
AND FOR SALE, AT
. Wm. Young's Book-store,
No. 52, Chelnut, corner os-Second fttreet,
On fne ivovett P ivith Elegant Engravings,
Dedicated to the President of rhe United States,
The Studies of Nature,
Translated from the French of
James Henry Bernardin de St. Pierre,
By HENRY HUNTER, D. D.
r r»HiS very ingenious, jnterefting and inflrudliv*
5. work has fine® its firft publication, gon
through four successive impreflions; under the au
thor's immediate infpedion ; beftdes a variety o'
printed editions in different part6of the European
continent.
Wo uook difplayj a more .sublime theology, in
culcates a pursr morality, or breathe# a more ar
dent and cxpanfive philanthroph/ St. Pierre ena
bles us to contemplate this universe with other
eyes ; hjs furnilhed new arguments to combat
atjicifm ; has established, beyond the power of
contradi&ion, dodrine of a universal provi
<]«nce, has excited a warmer interest in favor of
iuffering humanity, and ha? discovered sources,
unknown before ot moral and iutelleiStual enjoy
ment.
The avidity with which the clergy and other
.learned chara<slrrsin New-England, have purchafr
ed the English edition of this delightful perform
ance, and the opinion enteruincd by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
before tfye " Age of Reason," a part of it coti
. tains a more solid and compl«at refutation of it, 1
than any thing publifhcd fincj, are per hap? a fuffi
cient recomraendation of the Stud.es of Nature ;
in which the Botanist, the natural and chrillian
Philosopher, the friend of ®rder and government
are equally intercfted, and by whieh they will be I
equally gratified.
As no pains nor expence have been spared in
procuring suitable paper and able artists, to render
the work worthy ©f the public ; and as the Sub
scribers have Cxpreffcd their approbation of it, the
publilher flatters himfelf, that gentlemen, who on
account of the bad paper and print of some Ameri- !
"can editions, give general'y the preference to the 1
English, w ill honor this with a cornparifon, before ;
they purchase. ,
The Naval Gazetteer ;
Being a complcat Geographical Di&ioaary, contain- 1
ing a full and accurate account, alphabetically arrang- '
ed, of ail the Couniries ar.d islands in the known
world ; {hewing their latitude, foundings, and station
for anchorage; with a particular description of the
several Bavi, Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Cur- i
rents, Gulphs, Harbors, Havens, Lakes, Oceanj, Ra
ces, Riveis, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, Sounds, \
Straits, Tides, Variation of the Compass, ftc. To - v
gether with a particular relation ot thefhapeand ap
pearance at sea, of the several Headlands, lOhmufcs,
Peninlulas, Poins, Promonto'ie*v and whatever is of
use or importance to the Matter, Pilot, Commander
or Seaman of any ship or veflcl, in navigating the wa
try element.
Also, Comprehending |
Ample dirrftious for failing into or out of the differ
ent Ports, Straits and Harbor of the four quarters of
the world ; and for avoiding dangers on the various
and extended coast ; in which more than twelve thou- q
(and diftinft names and places, See. are treated of and
explained. With acorreft let of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo. .1
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM.
s3* This has been Dionounced the moil ufetul and
the cheapest book publilhed in America. It was un
dertaken several years since, under the auspices of
Lord Sandwich w-hile he was at the head of the Ad
miralty of England, and from which every aflift
ance necessary to complete so arduous a work, was
readily furnilhed, but it never made its appearance *
until lad year. The favor it obtained with Masters of
vessels and other gentlemen concerned in Navigation S
induced the publilher to prepare this edition wherein
the American Ports, Harbors, See. have been corrected
by a gentleman of great abilities, and exienfive infor- j* (
mation on the fubjech
may 21 2aW4W
FOR SALE. • u
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north u
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street, I
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and tt
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
tronfifting of a Piazza, Kitchen andahandfome
Dining Room over the Kitchec.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view r "
the premifes,a raore particular description iscon
fidered unnecessary. • n
The terms of payment will be one third cash, 1 i
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ia rh
months with interest. For further information, at
Enquire of JOHti CR/lIG, : h
No. i) Doek-Jireet.
may i& j
Colledtor's Office,
i ! Philadelphia, May Ic, 1798.
l > .TO/? <SV/Z.£ yf 7" PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, 00 Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandi7e, which remain in the Custom-House
ftnres nior«* than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 101 one bale girthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
W & P
one cafe lamps
C&C one cife bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
fD] 1 a l^ree bales girth web
[VH] aoo one ditto ditto
fN] 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
fLB] one small box locks dti^J
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
n Valuable patented LAND,
j" In the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
n ftate.of Virginia,
;000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
f, confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common* of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres 011 the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, & FerdinandO'Neal.
, 25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
> Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acres hi Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands ot Jacsb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and John Dilley, including
t, 3000 acres of prior fur veys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
r ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
0 40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys. '
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
n Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river, and
s, of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tra«sls of one
*, tnoufand acres each, the others in the quantities
-• and trails abova described.
Persons desirous co examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B.R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
may 14. No. 9, North Eighth street.
virtue of a decree of the honorable the high court
Of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferifcer will fell
at Public Sale, on the premifei, on Monday, the
»s<h of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
r ~l 'H AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
. aad P arl of No - property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, situated 011
Thames-lit eet, in that part of Baltimore city, called
. Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
. the buildings'and imp ovements thereon. There are
erettcd on this valuable property, several large and
c.Ommodiout bri k Warehouses, capable of contain
ing from to ao.o«o barrels of flour, with a frame
(hed adjourning thereto, fufficiently capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in perfeft fafety
from the weather From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harbor, ar.
extensive and well confirmed wharf,bounding on the
waier 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hips of any burthen at the lowest tides. From
the many advantages this property u known to possess,
it is edeemed equal if rot fupeiior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and must be a de
sirable ob eft to thoft inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnecessary to fay more on this sub*-
je£t, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises .previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold, I
are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with lecurity to the trustee for the payment of |
one half the purchase money with interest, within ,
three months, and the residue with interest, within ,
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE. ■
may 28. dtggthje. t
Cj* IF Mr. Charles William Klemeke, 1
Formerly of London, and who left England for 1
some part of the United States of America, in e
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person- t
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti-
more, or to Meflrs. Ifaae Hazlehurft and Son,
inPhiladelphia, he may hear of something great- f
ly to bis advantage. Any information refpedt
ing the said Mr. Charlc3 William Klemeke, 1
would be thankfully received. (
may t<9 div r t
V try Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Lineh, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purchase Of Enquire of j
I bomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet.
ma y 17 § 1
Joseph Ricardo, J
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro- w
perty for che benefit of his Creditors, t» James c ,
C. Fiflier, Samuel W. Fi(her, and Thonwts Wilson. „
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnifli their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to r ,
the Subscribers, a<fting Affignecs.
fjfames C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street. V
march 31 4 tawtf
FOR SALE, ti
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient fiores, wharf, &e. situate on ri
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Street", containing in front on Water flreet sis- *}
ty-fnur feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ ; c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirabiefit
uation sot a a merchant, flour fadlor, or others
who may have occasion for florage of goods, p
This property will be fold on very reasonable <j (
terms for ralh. For further information apply
'.B the printer. April s m/iewtf fl ;
•jo Dollars Reward. "
fy
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke di
o];en lait night, and several pieces of Stor- of
;Tiount ground Chintz of a set figure were car- ~
1 ied off. Whoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part T
thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co. I
No South Front-Jlreef. ar
may diw k ;
Treasury Dejjartment,
/ March 10, 1798.
f J NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r . nPHA'l'propolalswillbe rectivrd at the Office of
fe . Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firlt day of
Odober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrift hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego ;
at Niagara ; at Frefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Loramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
-18 tanoa on the River Wabafli; at Maffac; at any
place or places on rheeaft fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the Riyer Ohio, and up
on the Illit.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Miffiflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat# ; at
f Knox-vilk, Teliico Block House, and at all other
Ports in the State of Tenneflee; at a»y place or
places on the east fide of the River MifliHippi, be-
Y low the southern boundary of the State of l'ennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
11 supplies shall be required for any ports or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
lhall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the ports belore recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th».fol*
3 > lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-^\
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts /, ,
- of vinegar, two pounds of soap, C Hn . re
one pound of candles J rations
• The rationsare to be furniftied in such quantities,
' as that there shall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the consumption of the
' Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of f« months in advance, and at each
£ of the other poft6, for the term of at lead three
months is advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame lhall be required. It istwbe un
derllood, that the contra<slor is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of ifluing the supplies to the troops
at each port, and that all lofles sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
l » troops of the United States, ftiall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the demolitions of two or more persons of creriita-
A ble characters, and the certificate of a commiffion
-1 ed officer, ascertaining the circurcftances of the
loss and the amount of the articles for whiGh com.
e peniation (hall be claimed.
s The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
s be furniftied under the proposed coatraA, fliall be
c issued, until the supplies which have or may be
> furnifhed under the contrail noW in force have
c been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury•
march 3if. Jtawtijjy
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK— bt
T George Rutter & Co.
. Portrait a?td Ornamental Painters,
IN a fllle' which will endure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
r and exadlitudc of colouring cannot befurpafled in
• this city.'
| FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniftied with dispatch, en the most moderate
1 ternis.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-bucketi, &c. accomplilhed in that fupe*-b rtilc
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rmttr fledges
himfelt from 10 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hi* friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
1 Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw ,
Library.
may 3 d6w ,
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C. 1
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro- 1
sessional abilities, we have to request the public f
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to t
decide upon the merits of each by a comparifon.ot c
the work executed by both, as it is a niode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ef ertablilhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles -
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager iu every Uranch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and {hew the nectf- r
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attentian will be paid to thi a
felf-flatteriftg advertisements of Mr G. t
Any person wtfhing a supply of FLAGS and t
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and "
Co. Norm' Court, or Hbnrt Frailey, Germae
town. £6w may 8.
Military Colours. . J
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms, o
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut rtreet, tl
oppolite the Friends' Meeting. c
PAINTING on filke for Military and other or- q
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to v
himfelt) durable, not ta be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
eolouring, neatness and mailerly execution, has
not been «qualled by George Rutter and Co. t j
FLAGS and DRUMS ti
Furniftied with all pofiible dispatch, on the most p
reasonable terms. \>
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck- al
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that ""
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to anaa- e(
tift master of his profeflion. p<
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pundaality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wiil please to call at his Paint* "
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and m
country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and so
Drums, painted in a mallerly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind caw ion r r
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —five thefpoil- -r
---ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contra<aing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10. p a
William Meredith, ri<
Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. 127 Chefnut-ftreer,
where Titles to Real estates are examined Fc
and Briefs thereof and Conveyances of every fe]
kind, prepared* may zz jswjw v
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the Afl of Csngrefs passed on the flxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, e - titled •' An Atf laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
-Aa pailtd on the fifteenth day o! December, one thoufandfeven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ad i 0 postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by tke A<ft enti
tled "An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum. Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
firft day of July enf.iuj, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
I.
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which lhall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments »r writings following—to wit:
1 a c •• Dh CW I Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - '
. Any Licence to pradlire.or Certificate of the admifTion, enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvocattor Proilor, in airy Court of the
United States, ... . _
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of tke Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, lhall so far as relatea to the payment of the
duty aforelaitl, be a fulTicient admifiion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaitl offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United Statts
(except for lands granted for military services) - ~ 4 '
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for landi granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottrmry, or Rd"por\dentia Bond, - - 2
Any Receipt or dilcharge foror on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
tiier testamentary inftrumenr, or for any lhare or part of a personal eflate di
vided by force of any (latute of diftributiins, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereof lhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, ....
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and 5
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sura of ,
Any Policy of Insurance or inltrament in nature thereof, on any ship, vefle'l or
goods insured from one dillricSl to another in the United States, 1
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars,
When the sum insured (hallexceed five hundred dollars,
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furni(h for the use of the United States or some particular (late,
Any Ron-i, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promilTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any Hate, or for their
uferefpeflively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand d -liars, I
And if above one thousand dollars, -
Provided, that il'any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days, 75
such bonds or notes lhall be fubjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 4
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If alvve one thousand dollars, - 10
Any Notes ilTued by thebanks now eftablilhed, or that may hereafter be ellab- 3 °
lifhed within the United States, other than the not« of such of the f«id Banks
as (hall agree t" ati annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends madeby such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedively, according to
the following scale. .....
On all notc3 not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 4
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, • - • - - j
On all notes above five hundred dollars, -
Any Protefl or other Notarial ail, -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services '
performed in the late war, - ...
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less tbaß %S
five hundred dollars, - - . . .
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, • 2
For more than two thousand doltars, ...
Any *ote or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diflritSl to another diftria of the United States, not being in the
fame State,
If frojn (he United States to any foreign port or place,
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or tffefls, made in any 25
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,)
1 Any Certificate of a Share in any-lnf'-rance Company, ef a (hare in the Bank of 5
the United States, or of any State or other Baik, . 1
Ii above tiventy dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars, ... 0 ;
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforefaid will be and received by the Supervisors, Infpeflors aud rue
of Infpecftion, in the several DiltriJls, Surveys and Divisions of the United .tates and bv ftirktK
perfonsas (hall from totime be fpeciallyappointod and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrifls for
111.
The Supervisors of the fsveral Diftrias will, prior to tie firft day of July enfuimr ,„j .. r„„„
may be pra&icable, markorftamp, without dee o-reward, any quantities or parcel, of Vellum PsrcC
ment or Paper, with any of the rates ol duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties • Or
(tamped vellum, parchment and paper t, .ay at the option of theX'itizens of the United States be'ob
tamed at the rates prefenbed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeaor, Officer of li/<WkJT
or other parson appointed for the diilribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors ol Diftrids '
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
tie day and year jiovementioncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March to. Secretary of the Treasury.
I'» !<' ACIIDV IH'U a ll'l'n.n.'M'i' I i i
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30tb. 1798.
Public Nciiceis hereby given,
THAT by an ail of Congrcfs palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<fl pasTed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled 44 An adi laying duties on stamped vel
-44 lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or pertifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11/
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpe<£\ors refpe&ively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
| at the rate of Fifty Cents for each flcin of Parch
! ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the i
day and ye ir abo'vementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with Hack buildings
and stables.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son- Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April 2. §
The Co-partner (hip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all thole
having claims against said firm, are defircd to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autko
rifed toftttle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON. -
N. B. The« Stores at the corner «f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—inquire ol Jo
seph Davidfon.
apri! a 6 w&sam
TO BE SOLD;
40,939 acres of Land.
TN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennfyl
-1 vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Crtiksand Ten Mi!« Run.
These Land, are fertile and well timbered, and
abound m Coal ;-they were fold ten year, »» for
live lhillmgs per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370: acres, which were patented in 1791-
part of them were surveyed in i 7 g ? . The tra<ft
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 10 miles from
the town1 of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greecelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will be given forthe refi
' Enquire of the Printer.
apnl »i. 5
TO BE SOLDj
26,780 acres of Land,
TN the State of New York, between the northern
J- bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townlhips of Hamden and
Warren andcountyof Warren.
These Lands, I'om their quality and Gtuation,
are a very desirable ebjed for any man who mean#
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the'purchafe mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will !.e given for the reii
due - Enquire of the Printer.
April IT. j
i
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
vviih to receive two or three genteel boaid
ers. The House is handfomcly lurniihed; the
Gardens, Msadowsand Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the ehoiceft Fruit.
There 3refeveral MuDcal Instruments, amopgft
which is a moll excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
thefervice of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mo ft exceUent
-the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zett«- dtf mar 16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
TT. r HKRF.AS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
V t Hodgfcinfon, have by mutual conTent agreed
to l.v. fcparate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
persons fromtrufling heron my account, as br
contra& (he is to support herfelf for the future, and
I am determined not to pay any debt of hcr'con
trat2ins. JAMUEL HODGKINSON
is; - itlaw