tttt of W UllltfctS «■> Philadelphia Daily Advertiser',;
Number 1794. J
A Sloop for Sale,
VIRGINIA BUILT,
About two and an half years
old—burthen 31 tons, fails faft,
-- and is well lound.—Enquire of
Thomas iff Jo/hua Fijher,
No. 5, Dock Street.
6 mo. 7th § 1 w
FOR SALE,
L nm. TH® SHIP
RICHMOND,
JUaT arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Live Oak and Cedar and in every Fefpedt as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and (heathed. She is 80
feet keel feet beam, ta feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of
Flour. For terms, apply 1 o
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30 S 2W
landing,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
1 Matter,'from Bourdesux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPSa lOR QUALITY,
Brandy ir. Pipes,
FOR SALE,
Thomas iff J°^ n Zetland.
Ssiid Brig for sale,
two pair four pound CAN
» NON, and one pair lalb. CAR*
R O N A DE S.
may 29 §
: FOR LIVERPOOL^
' —THE SHIF
§Wkj liberty,
Isaac Vredenbkrger, Master,
A good new vefiel, fail® well—-
Lying at Wilcocks' Wharf, will fail about thetenthof
next month, a confidcjable part of her Caigo being
engaged*—Foi freight or paffageaoplv to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No, 96, North Front Street.
K. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall vefTeisto this port.
may 29 dtf
JUST ARRIVED,
In tFe brigGayofo,capt.Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exocellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
A V°> FOR SA^LE >
Enquire of
Jehu HoU'ingfworth & Co.
No. 12, Little Water ftriet, South,
april 30. §
FOR SALE,
THE whole or on« half of a PLANTATION
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (cxclufive of mea
dow) but will exceed 5: the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider; a dwelling
he vfe with a barn, stable, granary and other ne
ctfiary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vision ; on t,he other are no improvements, but has
one qf the most elegant situations far a house to be
seen on the river. The Sand is of,good quality,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by lan.nl or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thomas Str John.
May 5 eodtf
Military Academy.
THE Public are moil refpetHfully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Matters, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6cth British regiment of Foot and
afliltant Engineer to the Army adding in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-com miflioned of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrifen and
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rofter9 &c. &c. also the
art of drawing plans, feiSlions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification. —A fubfeription lift is left at the I
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and |
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
■seen. The fitnation is extremely weli adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground arc
set apart for the purpose.
N. B. Gentlemen from the Country boarded
<in Ihe house if required.
may ic. diw2awim
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three &nd a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
These situations are coniidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, who will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 2. 3tawtf
TO BE LET,
And Pojfejlon given Immediately.
THAT well known stand called, Small'®
ta/ern, sign of the Black-horse at the east
end of Bedford, This stand is attended with
many advantage* ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining each
mhier, well fimfhed and upon a very convenient
p'an ; the stabling new and large and a pump at
the door—besides, there are but two taverns in
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made kupwn by application to
Dr. John Anderfon,
cf t'ke tsivi of Bedford
may 11, ia<*6w
By John Fenno, N°" 119 Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 11, 1798.
United States, ~) ~
Pennsylvania Diftricl. J *"*
Notice is hereby Given,
AT in pursuance of a Writ to me dire&ed,
X. from the Hon. Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of
the Diftricft Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Diftrid, will be exposed to pub
lic sale Et the Custom-House, in the City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the 20th day of June, inft,
at 12 o'clock at noon 1
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having feeen libelled again ft, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the fait) court.
William Nichols, MarfliaL
Marshal's Office, )
June sth, '9B j 5 rot
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia, May 1 179^*
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the f»llowing mer
chandize, which remain in tbe Cuftom-Houie
ltores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of ftcel
(TD) 202 one bale girth web
(FL) a quantity fteel
one cafe lamps
C&C or.e cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine •
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
r-£)j 1 a 3 three bases girthweb
[VH] 200 one ditto ditto
I NJ 2Q3 one ditto ditto
(Nomark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
f LS] one small box locks
E John David J one small box of plated Ware
Harry ToulminJ two cases of books.
may 15 dti cT
Will be fold for Calh,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previouily disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THF. FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia.
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
continence of Turtle and Alatar.iahi riv»'r#, ad
joining the commoni of the town of Brunfwick.
4100 c acres on the Grsat Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining iands of
Wm.M Intoih, John Howell, & FerdinandO'Meal.
25000 acres «.n Great Satilla, anjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis anu John Howell.
4400© acre« in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, aoj >ifting lands ot Jacab War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand JohnDilley, including
3000 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Batli county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fide* of the wag
gon road leading from the warm springs to Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lanfts of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath cofinty, on the east fide of
Cowpatlure River, on the waters of fnd river, and
ot Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and including 5000 ncrts prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts of one
thousand acres each, the others in tho quantities
and trails abovs described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for thnt
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to cither of the fubferibers,
T. FITZIMONS,
No, —, Chefnut street.
B.R.MORGAN,
No. 4T, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKKR,
may 14. No. 9. North Eighth street.
By virtue of a deciee of the honorable tn.e oigr. cou v
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fed
at Public Sale, on the premises, on Monoay, the
asih of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
, ~| AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
JL No. 531 aad part of No. ,54, late the property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, situated on
Thames-ftreeJi in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are
ere&ed on this valuable property, fcveral large and
commodious b i k Warchoufes, capable c.f contain
ing frem 15 to ao,oco barrels of flour, with a frame
(hed adjourning thereto, fufticiently capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in perfe£i fafety
' from the weather. From this wxll known property
is extended into the deepclt water in this harbor, an
e*tenfiveand well conUnt&ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 .feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing ships of any burthen at the lowest tides. m
the many advantages this property is known to pofTe(s,
it is eHeemcd equal if rot superior, in point of com
mercial bencfir, to any in this city, and must be a de
(irableob eft to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an eftatc. It is unncceffary to fay more on this fub
jett, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises . previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser shall give approved nego'iablc
notes, with security to thetiuftec tor the payment of
one half the purchase monev with inteteff, within
three months, and the residue with interest, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may«B. dtgsthje.
Bank of the United States,
May 1 j th t 1798.
v
NOTICE is hereby given, that previous t"
the renewal of Certificates for Shares of
this Bank,'which may be loft or destroyed, it
will be required in future, that a particular de
scription of the original certificates fhonld be ad
vertised twice a week for three months in the
Newspaper called " The Gazette of tbe United
" States iff Philadelphia Daily Advertiser
informing of the loss or deftruiSlion, and the in
tention of the party to apply for a renewal.
In fix calendar months after the expiration of
the advertising as above, the New Certificates
will be iffucd upon the tlaimants producing
proof of their having been advertised as requir
ed, together, with the testimony of the lois or
deftrudtion, and giving the usual security to in
demnify the againft any injury which may
arise from the renewal.
Bv Order vf ihe Directors,
G. SIMP SOX, Cajhhr.
may 15. iaw6w
FOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
10 toes of Sheet Lead
Apply t»
Riehard D. Arden y
No. 26, North Front ftteet. I
jone 7 S
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muicovado qualify, which he offers for
sale very low for cash or at 60 days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, scc. &c.
June 5 dtf
1 FOR SALE, '
On board the (hip CLOTHIER, at Perot's
Wharf
Excellent Cheshire, an 4 ? CHEESE
- Double Gloucester S '
n fine order — ALSO, a few Crates of
(Queen's Ware,
Weil affjrtcd for Families,
june 4 siw
TO LET,
The House No. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It i* in go«d repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of bufineis. Apply as above.
June 5. §__
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhd».
White wine in half hhds.
Claret "S
Fronnnac ( wines in Cases.
Sauterne f
Lundi J
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Colfee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogsheads of Tobaoco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
jjine 2 dtf
Now Landing,
AtMefTrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
6 5,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Hogsheads, Tierces, Barrels, and Bags,
FOR SALE BY
SAMUEL HAYS,
No, £9, South Third
june 1 §6t
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY '
James Tard.
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Wine,
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4
Robert Smith & Cc.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE received by ihe (hip BeWidere from
London, a Rnfiia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-<:uck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an assortment of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Lutestrings, and a variety of India Muslins.
may 13 d t^w
FOR SALE
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
GurraS,-white Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emertics
Gorahs Mow Sauna®
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
Tickiries Baftas
Romalls Codas
Doreas Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics C trwah Cloths
An elegant aJJ"ortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordecai Lewis.
mny 25. dsw awaw
OX BEEF.
ICO Barrels 7 of Beef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels )»P w *ith care for long voyages,
ico Barrels cf Connecticut J'ork.
50 Barrels of Conne&icnt Tongues.
WINE S.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
3-) Calks of Li soon
300, Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Mnftard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger s Wharf
may 4 eodtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the lie weft and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN"* FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller iff Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18.
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to 20dy
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddlc and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakeis and Sadkrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier*s table,
tomb and heat* Itones, hearths , chimney pieces
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea4«, fill*, &c;
All which may he had on reafonablc terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diltance, 4irr<fted to Daniel Tho
mas, agent Tor the prifon,]will be attended to.
Decem l, erß. mth6m
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OP^REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, May 18.
MR. DENT asked and obtained leave of
absence for hiscolleague Mr. S. Smith,
for two weeks. Mr. Hosmer did the fame
for hiscolleague, Mr. Cochran.
Mr. D. Foster made unfavourable re
ports on the petitions of W. H< Torrans, le
gal representative of John Magnall, and of
Stephen Wockley, which were concurred in.
The Speaker, informed the House that th
hour was arrived at which a call of the house
wds ordered to be made, and that the Clerk
would accordingly proceed to the call.
The call was accordingly made, when it ap
peared that 92 members were present, which
with 13 members absent on leave, and 1 sick,
made up, the whole number ©t members.
The bill authorising the Prelident ot the
United States to raise a Provisional Army, was
read the third time ; when,
Mr. M'Doweli, moved to postpone the
queftionon the pottage of thitf bill till Tudda#
next. Information had been received from
£urope, and was entered on the Colfee house
books of this city, that our Commifiiouershad
been received by the Executive Directory,
and that the persons who had held tinatithori
fed conversations with them on the lubjett of
bribes, &C. were imprisoned. He could not
fay that this information was true ; but if it
were, tmr. differences with the French Repub
lic may probably be amicably accommodated,
and there may be no neceflity to pass this bill
at all. He hoped, therefore, the portponement
would take place.
Mr. Sew all should be sorry if a motion of
this kind were to receive any attention from
the house. It negociations were opened with
the Frerich Republic, they might not very
soon be concluded. What appearance would
it have to the Nations of Europe, if, after ali
the insults and injuries we have received from
the French Republic, the moment Congress
heard in an indirect, uncertain way, that they
had deigned to receive our Ministers, they
stopped their proceedings in all measures ot
defence. A more unfavourable appearance,
in his opinion, could not take place. It ought
to be rccolletted that the army proposed to
be raised was a Pr«vifional Army, and wouid
not be raised, if the contingencies therein
named did not take place.
The question for a postponement was put
and negatived, there being only 29 votes for it.
The question on the palling of the bill, was
talcen by Yeas and Nays, as lollow :
r E A s.
Meftrs. Allen, Meflrs. Hofmer,
Baer, Imlay,
Bartlett, Kittera,
Bayard, Lyman,
Brooks, Machir,
Bullock, Matthews,
Champlin, Milledge,
Chapman, Morgan,
Coit, Morris,
Craik, Otis,
Dana, J. Parker,
Dennis, Reed,
Dent, Rutledge,
Edmond, Schureman,
Evans, Sewall,
A. Foster, Shepard,
D. Foster, Sinnickfon,
J. Freeman, Sitgreaves,
Glen, N. Smith,
Goodrich, Thatcher,
Gril'wold, Thomson,
Tillinghart,
Hanna, Van Alen,
Harper, Wad f wort h,
Hartley, J.Williams,
Hind man, 51.
N A r s.
Meftrs. Baldwin, Meftrs. Hctfter,
' Bard, liolmcs,
Benton, Jones,
Blount, Locke,
Brent, Lyon,
Bryan, Mkjou,
Burgcfs, M'Clehachaxi,
T.Claiborne, M'Do weil,
W.C.Claiborne New,
Clopton, Skinner,
Davis, W. Smith,
Daw foil, Sprigg,
Elmendorf, Stanford,
Find ley, Sumter,
Fowler, A. Trigg,
Gallatin, J. Trigg,
Gillefpie, V. C'ortlandt,
Gregg, Varnum,
Harrifon, Venablc,
Havens, R. Williams
40.
Mr. Harper laid before the house the fol
lowing resolution, which was referred to the
Committee of Ways and Means :
" Rejoined that a committee be appointed to prepare and
report a bill for providing for tbe more effectual cotleflion
of certain Internal Revenues of tbe United States."
Mr. Sitgreaves called up his motion for
amending the Standing Rules ot the house,
by providing that no member (hall fpefck more
than once to any question, either in the house,
or in committee of the whole, which was
agreed to without debate, 51 members being
for it.
The Speaker laid before the house an ad
dress from the Mayor, Corporation, See. of
the borough of Elizabeth, in N. Jersey, ap
probatory of the conduct of the Executive,
in its Negociations with the French Repub
lic, and cxpreilive of their determinations to
support the measures of Government. —Re-
ferred as usual.
The house went into a committee of the
whole on the bill for the relief of Thomas
Lewis which being agreed to without amend
ment, rose, and the bill was ordered to be read
a third time to morrow.
Mr. Macon called the order of the day on
the report of the Committeenif Revifal and
Unfinilhed Business on the memorial of Wil
liam Simmons, Accountmt of the War De
partment* whichfecommendsadditional cpm
penlation to the mcmorialift for the
1798. After some observations, the report
was agreed to and a bill ordered to be brought
. in accordingly.
A bill from the Senate making an alterati
on in the act fixing the Military Establish
ment, in relpectto the appointment of a Bri
gade Major and Inspector, which the Briga
dier General is authorised toappoint from the
line of the Army, was twice read and com
lthtted for to morrow.
Mr. Sew a l i. railed up the resolution which
he vefterday laid upon th? table, authpriling
\VoLVME XIII.
*
the "Committee of Commerce and Protection
to report, bv bill or otherwise, the best means
to be taken forfecuring or removing from the
United States, Aliens, or either difafteifted and
seditious persons, which was agreed to without
debate or divilion.
Onmotionof Mr. J. Williams, the house
resolved itfelf into a Committee of the whole
on the bill making some alterations in the
Militia Law, The bill contained nine sec
tions. The firft went to repeal the second
seCtion of the old aCt which contains the ex
emptions from Militia Duty; the second Sec
tion enumerates the exemptions proposed to
be allowed in future, which it proposes should
be uniform, and that the States Should no
longer have the power of granting exempti
ons ; the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh
and eighth feftions relate to mutters, laying
fines for negleCt of duty, and the manner in
which they shaH be conducted ; the ninth
seCtion provides for the purchase of thou
sand stand of arms, to be difiributed in due
proporiion, by order of the President of the
United States, among thefeveral States, and
stored at suitable places within each divilion
of the Militia of the State, for the purpose
of being fold out to the Militia at reasonable
prices, and under such regulations as the Pre
sident ihall prescribe. All the seCtions were
{truck out, except the lafL which was agreed
to. » lie committee rose, and the bill was re
committeed to the feiect committee.
The house then went into a committee on
the bill for the relief of Joseph Mourfe, which
was agreed.'to, ami ordered to be read a third
time to-morrow
Mr. Sr.waLt.reported abillfefpecting Alien
Enemies, which was committed for Monday.
The President of the United States inform
ed the house, that he had approved and signed
an act regulating the compensationot Clerks,
and forfeit her purposes.
Adjourned.
Saturday, May F9.
THE bill for the relief of Thomas Lewis,
and that for the reliet ot Joseph Nourfe, werer
read the third time and pafi'ed.
Mr. Dwicht Foster, from the com
mittee Ot claims, made a report on the peti
tion of John Vaughan, who prays to be reim
bursed a loss which he sustained by a quantity
j of silver sent to the mint to be coined, on ac
count of its being eltiinated by an aflfunied
i standard, different from the legal one. Com
mitted for Wednesday.
Mr. Gallatin, from the committee to
whom was referred the petition of H. W*
Dobbin and John Ellifon, whp pray for
grant of land in the North Western Territory
on terms different front those provided by /aw,
made a report. * The committee being direct
ed to enquire generally into the subjeCt, and
having determined upon the propriety of
making some general regulations, recommend
that the prayer of the petition ought not to
be granted. Concurred in.
The fame gentleman ilfo made a report on
the petition of Ely Williams, who prays for
compensation on account of buildings ereCted
in the North Western Territory by himfelf and
partner, when Agents for supplying the
Western Army, for the purpose of falling pro
visions, or a grant of land as an equivalent.—
The eotrtmitiee recommend a grant of land to
be made to the petitioner in Cincinnati, upon
which said buildings were erected. Ihe re
port was Concurred in, and a bill ordered to>
be brought in.
Mr D. Foster called for the order of the
day on the bill respecting loan fofftce certifi
cates, final settlement certificates, and indents
of interest, and the house accordingly resolved
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the
laid bill, which after been Ptacj, and after
some few obfervHtions on the principle adapt
ed for payment, the bill was agreed to, and
ordered to be read a third time on Monday.
This bill provides that so much of the aft
cntituled " an act making further provision
for the support of public credit, and for the
redemption of the public debt," pa (Ted the
3d of March, 1795, as bars from settlement
or allowance, certificates, commonly called
loan office and final settlement
:vnd indents of iuterelt, b .md the fame is
hereby suspended for the verm of one year,
from and after the time of the palling ot this
act ; that on the liquidation and settlement •£
such of the said certificate r, and indents of in
terest, as may be prelented at the ireafury,
pursuant to this adt,.the creditors fhali be al
lowed to receive certificates of funded three
percent, stock of the United Mates, equal to
the laid indents, and the arrearages of interest*
due on their said certificates, prior to the firft
dnv of January, 1791; that the principal sums
of the said loan office, arid final settlement
certificates, with the interest thereon, since
che firlt day of January, 179 1, shall and may
be di(charged, after liquidation at the Trea
sury, by the payment of interest, and reim
burfenient of principal equal to the sums
which would have been payable thereon, it*
the said certificates had been fubfenbed pur
fuantto the ads, making provilion for the
debts of Hie United States, contracted during
the late war, and by the payment of other
sums, equal to the market value of the re
maining funded stock, which would have been
created by fubferiptions-as afore said ; which
market value fiiall be determined by the
Comptroller of the Treasury ; for which pur
pose the sum of 20,000 dollars are appropri
ated ; that from and after the palling of this
act, it fiiail not be lawful for the officers of
the Treasury, to issue, or cause to be iflued,
any certificates of regiltered or unfunded debt ;
and to fatisfy such claims for services, or f'up
plies furnifhed, or done prior to the eftablifh
-Ine.lt of the prefen.t C'onftitutioii of the United
States, as fiiall be allowed according to law,
and the course of settlement at the 1 reafury*
20,000 dollars are appropriated : that ther
Commiflionersof the Sinking Fund are requir
ed to reimburse, or cause to be reimbursed,
the principal sums of the unfun lexi, or regis
tered debt of the United States, credited on
the books of the Treasury and Commidioners
of loarts ; and to cause a notification to be pub
lished, informing the creditors, generally, of
the said reimbuffemea?, and that infereft on
>he said debts will eeafe at the expiration of
fix months after the date of the said notifica
tion ; and 90,000 dollars are appropriated for
the purpose : and that if (hall be lawful for
the creditors of the unfunded or registered
debtaforefaid, to receive certificates or* fund
ed three percent, stock, equal tp the arreara
ges of interest due to them prior
to the firft day of January, *791 ; and on the
j requisition of each or any of the said creditors,
J the ptoper officers, of the Treasury a re % herebyinquired to ifliie, or canfe to be iltued, th:
fe'diviulicatcsof funded three per cent, ftsck
accordingly.
Mr. Macon reported a bill making addi
tional compensation fur the year 1798 to Wil
liam Simmons, Accountant of the War De
partment, which was twice read, and com
mitted for Monday.
Mr. Craik, presented certain resolutions
agreed upon at a meeting at Liberty, in Fre
derick County, (Maryland,) approbatory of
the measures of Government. Referred.
Mr. T. Claiborne move 3 a resolution to
provide, that in the bill refpefting the pur
chase 0/ arms for supplying the militia, a
claufefliould be inserted for furnilhing arms
to such persons as are too poor to pay for
them, free of expence. The motion was ne
g.ttived, 15 votes only being for it.
On motion of Mr. Sew.ul, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
bill to amend theaCt to amend, and repeal, in
part, the.ai'.t to afcerta'n and fix the Military
Eliabliflinient of the United States, which
being agreed to, the committee rose, and the
bill vas immediately read the third time and
pafTed.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of James Swan, refpec'ting a bill of
exchange in dispute betwixt him and the Se
cretary of the Treasury.' Concurred in.
On motion of Mr. Gallatin, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
report of t»ie committee of commerce and ma
nufactures on the petition of Gullavus and
Hugh Colhoun, of this city, merchants, re
lative to a breach of the Revenue Laws; and
after some difewflion on the fubjeft, the com
mittee rose, and the report was re-committed
to the committee of commerce and manufac
tures. Adjourned.
ANN POLIS, May 24.
Extraft of a letter from a gentleman "high
in thf confidence of the United States, to
his friend in this city, dated London,
February 21, 1798.
" *ou calculate upon a peace for the
rile of he value of land. I am afraid this
calculation will fail y; u. The United States
cannotbe much longer at peace with France.
Our commifii ners are received, and
no likelihoodofit. Thedirc&ory have reach
ed ihe pinnacle of arrogance, and will not
eaf'y descend from it. The French law
of the 'aft month (the particulars of which
vo.i wili be EpprifcJ of without my affifta ce
completely shirs rut all hope of honorable
accommodation. We might buy theforiea
rar.ee of the Great Nation (for so France
row ca Is ii-rfelf)but this does not suit ei
ther our clnraCter or ntereft. We have pad
injuries to hekredrefs for, and future inju
ries to prevent. The latter we might
buy difgractfully but the former will not
admit f even that remedy.l trust the Ame
rican people will feel one common fenti*
mcni of intonation againtl the rapacious
ambition ai d corrupt views of this proud
republic ; and thai they will unite toyman
in vi'.dicating American independence, and *
fuAaining their rank among nations. I have
no doubt it will be so. If war becomes ne
ctflary, we are able to support it ; and re
ther than yield the rights of our sovereign
ty, the interells of our citizens, and honor
of our con - try, to gratify -ny power upon
earth, whether democratical or monarchical
we ought to flake them all up:>n our spirit
and refourceS. All Europe(exccpt Great-
Britaiii)l"eems to be finking beneath the
weight of France. America cannot keep her
fta tionbv humiliating concession : (he mud
d ) it by firmnefs.
" Your cO' jefttires in America about the
jnflability of this government are erroneous.
The accounts you receive are from prejudi
ced sources, principally from opposition
newfpapcrs. Setting aside the frightful
niafs of debts under which it labors, it nev
er was more prosperous, and certainly never
half so firong. Its refotirces arc yet great,
and equal to any probable exigency. The
people a e quiet, and apparently attached
not only to the conllitution, but to the mea- -
fures of adminiftraUon. Its navy gives it
security fromwithout ; and the late brilliant ]
fucccfles of th3t navy have gratified the 11a- 1
tional pride, and raised the spirits of the t
country. The'*hreat of Invasion has only ]
ferred to give new energy to the government '
by producing general union. France will J
find in Great-Britain an unconquerable ene
my.—Mr. Pitt has lately trefcied and qua- r
drupled the ajejfed taxes for the purpose of -j
relieving, or rather sparing, the funding \
system, by raising part of the supplies with- 1
in the year; and even this strong measure f
excites np considerable difccntent. In aid
of this, a voluntary contribution is now v
going on, for the defence of the kingdom, '
which will produce a large sum. It would S
produce more, but that the vaporing about F
a defeent is rot thought to be serious. Ire-
land has long been in a dreadful (late, and is j
I believe, only kept down by the military. H
If a French invaiion is at all projefted, Si
Ireland is probably the deltined point v
of attack ; but it fucceeH, even ifl
that view, Great-Britain maintains
the indiiputed empire of the ocean, and has 3
011 foot so powerful a force in every aflaila
ble part of the three kingdoms. It is al- L
most iwpoffible to learn the true situation of V
Ireland (accounts are so contradictory) of "
the causes which have led to it. It is ex
tren ely certain, however, that England and s !
Scotland are in perfeft tranquility, and like- .1
ly so to continue. The minority in par* j'
liament is unusually small, and their influ
ence out of doors less than you would at-
tribute to them. If they had at y such l
influence, the rupture of lord Malmefb'ury's T
regociation, the la.'tmanifeftations cf French A
ambition on the continent, the menace of a J
defeent, and the declared animosity of the
dirtflory, have much decreased it. The 9
partisans of reform are not numerous; If q
peace were re-ellabli(hed, it is likely they j n
would become so ; but moderate men re
collet, that this is not the moment for tr,y- O
in/ experiments on the constitution." T
London Particular Madeira Wine, T
A few pipes of a superior quality, fit for imme
mediate use ; and CLARET in cases. At
rt/R SALE nr \<
Michael Connor, R<
No. 102, corner of Second and Dock streets.
juae 9. § T1
%f)C
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, June 11.
is
)f FOR THE CAZET TE OF THE UNITED STATES.
:o
r- Poetic Epistle,
Addrefs'd to the Young Men of Philadel
,r phiay "who JirJl offered their services to
their country.
, ( Continued)
e 'Tis Union then, ftil! not of arras alone,
, le But thought and feeling, is your surest fliield.
in This may you draw from one unfailing Jburce,
"l The love of country ; that endearing tie •
; By nature grafted on the heart of man ;
! ; 1 hat sacred flame rdiAlefg, which alone
Can give true lustre to the warrior's crest
. And make his battles glorious. Mars m. urge
i° The Soldiers valor, and Minerva guide
His arm to victory ; but flill, unless
0 Defenfe of liberty inspire the war,
e " Each blow that's given tramples nature's lawt,
And gives a death-wound to humanity.
Courage may teach us all to laugh at death,
And wisdom not to fear it, but the lore
id ° f country gives us nobler thoughts ; O ! could
The lhades of those who for their country bled
i( j Of Warren, Mercer, and Montgomery,
n But speak their dying feelings, we (hriuld learn
»d ne ' ( her f'ar'd.nrrlaugh'dat death,hutftiil
They felt a pang wlii h none but patriots feel
A pang, regretting they could die but cace.
Nor ir.uft this flame, which nowextending wide
Adorns and brightens all the weltern world,
Be like the spark which the enforced flint
"" Darts to thewounding fteel; —a moment's glow,
to 'T ir.uft blaze eternal as the vestal fire,
, Pretended guardian of the State of Rome :
Tho' that pretended, this is reetlly yours.
le This is the fire that burn
j To save your threaten'd country, this the fire
Whiih once extinguilh'd, never can revive,
5 But from the .ifhes of sepulchred fame :
'■ [t is the vital warmth on which depend! ■
d The life of liberty, which like the blood
h Of human systems, once arrested, leaves
A paflive, useless and corrupting mass.
w O guard it then with ever watchful eye,
h But (hould it weaken—fan it not my friends,
With foreignbreatl); beof yourselves, yourfclves
Tne guardians, independent never sloop
To borrow help from prejudice or spite.
Form no determin'd hate nor hasty love :
The state which wrongs you,is that day yourfoe;
■" Oppose it as your foe, but rulh not thence,
t With thoughtless haftc to the embrace of each
1- May ope its arms.—Your wrongs redrefs'd, at
t once
Your foe'sno more— Columb'ans ! seek not war.
_ Yourselves united, can yourselves protedl.
Alliance leads to war, league each with each,
And rather fuffer from internal want,
®'! han be the prey of an external aid. *
J For, proffer'd aid, the awkward semblance wears
n of power supreme, and obligations tsnd
1 rTo fuhjugate : b«ware ! remain the friends
e Of all mankind, but ever be prepared
With ready force to meet th' invading foe.
Dcfpifing dingers we increase their force ;
Oppos'd they leflen : 'tis their nature oft
To steal unlook'd for on their promised prey :
They, like the worm fhat blasts the opening bud,
J In daiknefs bide their efforts to deftrov,
I And work in fe'eret at the root of bliss'
: Then fcarch thr-root of that fair smiling tree
. Your fathers planted, nor declare it
. Because its branches bloflbm to your eye :
Search there—th'altack already is prepared :
I One fibre wounded, weakens its support.
Dcfpife not danger at a distance view'd :
, Thefnow-ball rolling from themountain's brow,
If unopposed in yet its infant state,
Becomes u mountain ere it reach the vale,
Its size ano strength encreafing as it rolls.
' Fis not that dangers by approach increase,
[ They're still the fame,at diltance view'd, ornear.
The fnow-ballrolling from the mountain's brow
. Is full as dangerous as the gather'd heap,
To him refolv'd not to oppose itscourfe.
'Tis opposition firm, at once refolv'd,
Makes ronqueft lure, orfuperfedes the need.
Againll the ravcaing tyger bar your gates,
You sleep in peace : —admit him,you must fight.
Your danger's great; I fear not to alarm,
I not to cowards speak ; your danger's great.
Known it but serves to jnimate the brave ;
Unknown the brave must fall into its snare.
1 his moment it is great ; but, firmly rife,
The next it leflens; as your ranks increase
It weakens ftil! ; then meet it front to front,
J T will fly, and vanilh from proteiled (bores.
Beware of those who seek to lull your sense
In dull security's lethargic dream 1
Thenurfe of danger's confidence niilplaced.
Your foes are watchful, be you watchful too,
Nor, watchful, wait till danger fliall retire, <
Rife all at once and drive it from your land. i
Say some," we'll wait till danger fliall arrive." '
Who flirs not now, is n-: i w his country's foe.* J
Unguarded men ! j-nu think no danger's here ! j \
So thought the Trojans, lull'd by Sinon's arts, '■ c
For'hellilh purpose.—(Mark! for Sinons lurk I
In every nation,) On the fatal night Jo
Their city flamed and fell; so thought in Rome v
The sleeping soldiers, while the wakeful foe 1
Had readied the capitol ; —ln Athens so
Some cowards 1 d\o think,while rage
Was thundering at their gates j so Cefar thought
Amidst surrounding daggers in the breast
Of seeming friendfhip hid ; so, on the lap"
Of fatal pleasure slumbering, falfeiy thought
Deluded Anthony ; so thought the Pole
When Ruflia threaten'd ; so king Louis thought
Louis furnam'd the" wellbelov'd of France"
When thus the murmuring people he addrefs'd
" Come lhare my power but give me all your
love j
So falfeiy thought, and so deluded fell
Tli'Helvetic union: doubting to oppose F
Until the never-tiring, sateless foe
In lteps of 'blood, advane'd to seal her fate. J,
Rouse then ! beware! by others fate be warn'd I o
Nor, on Ihe pillow of delusive hope, r ,
Lull every aflive thought, till all at once (1
The foe appear in long prepar'd array,
Arid wreak their vengeance on defencelefs ftorcs. "
1 hen shall we fee our wives and children fall a
The prey of brutal lust, our cities burnt, P
Our infants writhing on the haibert's [joint
The sport of lavage rufikns," and the head 3 c
Of our lov'd rulers borne on reeking pikes
In friumph through our streets, then must our
songs, Ir
Our songs of boast d union, be changed, S
To hcl ilh yells of mafl'jcre and blood, I_
And freemen (ink toflav<». Hah! will you wait fe
Till scenes like thel'e lliail flrike your sleeping
fouls " l
And fiir tliem into aiflion, or prepared '
Avert them all ? Columbians ! can you doubt'?
Rouse, Rouie ! (or honor's fake I rhe fiour ia S 1
come ri
The latest hour of warranted deliy.
? This Is th' important crisis of youf fate,
O seize it then, as would a drowning mail
A rock of futeft fuccOur'; think, O think,
Once loft, what dreams of human blood must
flow
To purchase then what now is yours, or flow
Perhaps, in vain ! rife then at once, my friends,
With energetic fervor, and I#t one,
One part at least of this deluded globe
Be free from horror, maflTacre and ruin:
ES. Where men-may offer to the God of Peace
Theiruncheck'd praj'rs, andfweet religion dwell
Secure and honored, where each virtue pure,
As on the altar of heaven,
el- May breathe its fragraut incense, and atone
The fatal errors of the eastern world.
( To be continued J *
THE ADDRESS,
Of the convention of Congregati nal Miniflers,
in the commonwealth of Meffacbufetts,
e, T© the PRESIDENT of thi. UNITED S TAI ES,
adopted in 80/ ion, May 31ft, '9s,. in full con
vent ion, without a dijfenting viice.
SIR,
WE, the congregational miniflers of your native
state, met in annual convention, feel our (elves railed
upon as men, as American citizen*, and as public
profefTors ahd teachers of chriflianity, toaddrefsyou
at this solemn an J event i'ul crifia.
Whilethe benevolent spirit of our religion and of
€ce prompts our fervent wi(he» and prayers for the
universal exxenfion of rational liberty, social order
and chrifiian piety » we cannot but deeply lament,
and firmly refill those atbeiftical, licentious and dif
ild organizing principles, which have been avowed and
ed z ™. propagated by the philosophers a?»d po!i.
ticians of prance; which have produced the.grcateft
rn c .'i mc ® anci miseries in that tfnhappy country, and
like a mortal peflilenca, are diffufing their baneful
1 influence even to dirtant nations. Fiom these prin
ciples, combnied with boundless avarice and ambi
tion, have originated not only fchenies of universal
de Pj u J*der and domination, but infiilious atrempts to
divide the people from their rules,aad in
volve them in a nerdleis, Unjust and ruinous war; ar
bitrary and cruel depredations on their unoffending
w ' commerce; contrmp'uous treatment of their tepeat
ed mefTengers and generous overtures of pt'ace; rapa
cious demands and insulting threats ir« answer to the
molt lair and condefccnding proposals.
In this connexion, we offer you, fir, our tribute
e of affeftionatc cfteem and gratitude, and to Almigh
ty GOD, oui devou' praile, for the wife, temperate
and benevolent policy, which has mat Iced your con
du£l towards the offending power, and which has
given a new a id fplendidexample of the beauty and
dignity of the christian spirit, contrasted with the ;
bafcand profligate spirit of infidelity. Wealfo bless
GOD for your firm, patriotic and importaut services
to our country from the dawn of its glorious revolu
tion, and for the conspicuous integrity and wisdom
which have been constantly difpla>ed both by you,
cs fir, and your excellent and beloved predeceflbr.
As miniflers of the Prince of Peace, we feel it to
be our duty both to inculcate and exampiify the pa
cine spirit which adorns his chara&er and do&rine.
e . r^ mc nibei his command to forgive and love our
' mod injurious e. emies. But neither the law of chris
tianity nor of reason requires us to proflrate our na
tional independence, freedom, prosperity and honor
at attnefeet of proud infatiab'e oppressors; especially
of a government, which has renounced the gospel
and its sacred inflitutions, and has transferred to im
aginary or heathen idoli the homage due to the crea
tor and redeemer of the world. Such a probation
would t reafon against that being who gave us our
inestimable privileges civil and religious, as a sacred
deposit to be defended and tran r m itted to posterity.
s It would be criminal unfaithfulne's and .treachery to
our country, our children and the whole human race.
The fate of Venice and other count!ies subdued
by France, though held up to intimidate us to degra
ding fubmiflion, iha 11 teach us a far different lesson.
It fiiall inflruft us to shun that insidious embrace,
which aims not only to reduce us to the condition of
tributaries, 4>ut to flrip us of the gospel, the chris
tian sabbath and every pious institution. These priv-
I, ileges we consider as the chief glory of our country ;
the main pillar* of its civil order, liberty and happi
ness ; as on the other hand we view its excellent po
litical infiitutions as, under GOD, the guardians of
our religious and ecclesiastical privileges. This inti
mate connexion between our civil and christian blefT
ings is alone Sufficient tojuftjfy the decided part which
the ckrgy of America have uniformly taken in lup
porting theconftituted authorities and political inter
cflso.' their country. While we forgive the censure
which our order h2s received from fomt persons on
' this account, we will ftili, by our prayers and exam
ples, by our public and private discourses, continue
the fame tenor of conduft which has incurred this,
malevolent or inifgnided abuse.
Amidfl the fafhionable scepticism and impiety of
the age, it is matter of confolatijn and gratitude that
v we have a president, who, both in worcl and ac
tion, avows his reverence of the christian religion,
his belief in a redeemer and fanftificr of the world,
and his devout trust in the providence of GOD.
May that blins whose important favor you re
j cently 1 ed us to implore, graciously am'wer our unit
ed prayers in behalf of our common country. May
, he preserve your,valuable life and health, your vigor
firmnefs and integrity of mind, and your coufequent
public ufefulnefs ; and at length transfer you, full
of days and honor, to the polfeflion of an eminent
and everlasting reward.
Signed per order,
DAVID OSGOOD, Moderator ) of Conven-
JF.DEDIAH MORSE, Scr.be J tion.
fioflon, May 31, '9B.
ANSWER.
To the convention of congregational miniflers in the Jlate of
MaJtchufettJ.
GENTLE ME V,
T his refpeCtful and afFe&ionate address, from the
convention of the clergy of Massachusetts, not less
diitinguilhed for science and learning, candor, mod
, eratiou, liberality of sentiment and conduit, and for
!tbe most amiable urbanity of manners, thai* for im
blemifhed morals and christian piety, does me great
'■ honor, and must have the molt beneficial effefts up-
I on the public miad, at this solemn and eventful crisis
I To dojufticeto us sentiments and language, I couid
' only repeat it, fente ice by sentence, and word for
word ; I shall therefore confine myfe.f to a mere re- !
turn of my unfeigned thanks.
JOHN ADAMS <
Philadelphia, June 8, '9B.
At a numerous meeting of the Inhabitants <
of the city of Scheneflady, at thehoufe c
of John Piatt, on the evening of May c
iQth, 1798, convened by public notice, c
John Sanders in the Chair, c
Joseph Shwrtleff, Secretary; ]
Refolded, That this meeting-do-fully ap- £
prove of the conduft of the President of the f
United States relative tn tSe French Re- e
public. £
That we are sensible of the 0
importance of rallying around the llandard f,
I of our own government, at a time when so- 0
reign influence is exerted to divide us from
our own rulers, and when encroachments are 0
made on our national rights, under the p
avowed pretence that we are a divided t ]
people. h
Rtfohu!, That Dodi. James Anderfon, o
Stephen N. Bayard, Joseph Shurtleft', John f<
Sanders, and James Murdoch, be a Com- ti
mittee to prepare an address to the President, ci
Senate and House of Representatives of the ai
United States, exprtflive of the foregoing o<
sentiments, and declaratory of our determi- d
nation to support our own government in all In
the measures which they, in thtir wisdom, w
ihall adopt for proleftion against the ag- di
< greflion of any nation who fliall violate the
j rights or liberties of cur country.
The address being prepared and reported,
was agreed to without ode diflenting voice-
Rcfolved, That the Chairman alti! Secre-
tary of this meeting sign the address, and
thnt the Committee forward the fama to the
Hon. Hesry Glenn, Efq to be prefenred
ts, to the President, Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States, and cjufe
the proceedings of this meeting to be pub
li (lied.
el l JOHN SANDERS, Chairman.
Joseph Shurtleff, Secretary.
To the PRESIDENT, SENATE and
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
of the Unitfd States.
WHEN danger threatens the peace and
independence of the United States—when
'*> lawless power violates our rational rights—
s when we are insulted as a divided people, it
becomes the duty of Americans to rally
around the flandard of thtir government.
We inhabitants "f the city of ShenecSa- 1
dy, in the state of New-York, imprefled
l ic with this idea, beg leave to declaie to the
du President and Congress ofthe United States,
our warm and unequivocal apprrbation of
the measures adopted by our government.
:r to maintain a state of neutrality with the
it, belligerent powers of Europe, to rec nrile
j" existing differences with the Republic of
j France, and to support our national inde
ft pendence. Perrr.it us also to express our
d firm confidence in the wifd im, pat iotifm
and fidelity of him, whom the united voice
I of our country has placed at the head of
,1 her councils.
° With every true friend to this country,
we deprecate the calamities of war, and va
l? lue the bleffii-.gs of peace; but if these bleff
t- I ings must be secured by bribes, by the re- j
3 " j linquifliment of our independence, or by (
, any means humiliating or dishonorable to us
!e • as a nation, we wdl cheerfully prefer war, j
i- with all its horror, to a state of peace upon i
fucli degrading conditions.
, s When we view the republic l ! of the old
d world overturned, and their very names !
j.® blotted from among the nations of the earth; :
s when we fee every exertion made by a fo
i- power to introduce diforganizfVig
n principles among us, and to separate the
'• people from their government, that wc, like
0 the wretched Republic of Venice, may be
i- come an easy prey to her unbounded atxibi
tion ; we feel as Americans' under such
* circumstances ought to feel, and are resolved
i- a ll hazards, with our lives and fortunes,
r to support our laws, our liberties, and our
y country.
May that Being, who decides the fate of
- empires, diredt you, Sir, «nd both HouseS
1 oi Congress, to pursue, with wisdom and
firmnefs, measures which will feciire the
, honor, fafety and independence of the Uni
-0 ted States.
jj Signed by order and in behalf of a
large number of refpeftable inhabi
, tants of the city of Schene&ady,
j. convened, agreeably to public notice,
at Piatt's Inn, in said fcity, on
Wednesday, May 16th, 1798.
• JOHN SANDERS, Chairman.
Joseph Shurtleff, Secretary.
- To lie InhalitdfUs of the City ofSchencaady,
in the Jlate of New-York.
1 GENTLEMEN,
; YOUR address ta the Prefid nt, Senate
. and House of Representatives, has been
1 presented to me by one of your Senators in
■ Congress, Mr. North, and your Reprefen
, tatiye, Mr. Glenn.
The sense you express of your duty, to
f rally round the Itandard of your government,
your warm and unequivocal approbation of
( its measures, and your firm confidence, are
, very acceptable.
The Melancholy fate of the republics of
; Europe, cries to us in America, with a
, warning voice, to beware !
The preference of war, to a degrading
! Pf ace ' is worthy of the brave and the free. ,
Your prayers for direftion to the govern- ,
ment, are received with giatitude, and re
cipiocated with sincerity. .
JOHN ADAMS. ,
Juneifl, 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the Inhabitants \
of Chatham county, convened by public
notice, during the fitting of the court, [
on the 15th day of May, 1798, 1
Jcthm Williams, Esq. Chairman,
Jo Hn Ramsey, Esq. Secretary; '
The following address was unanimously re
folyed on : r
To the PRESIDENT or the UNITED STATES.
Sir, (
AT th's important crisis, when war, with a
all its train of calamities, seems ready to a
burst upon us ; when, by the malice of our ti
enemies, we are represented as a divided I
people, a people inimical to the measures of tl
our own government, and wanting cohA- v
dence in it ; we derm it our duty as citizens
of the United States, explicitly to declare, u
our fulled faith in the integrity and wisdom t!
of all the departments of our government, «
our high approbation of the conduct of our r(
Executive in its late endeavors towards ne- 0
gocintion with Fiance, and our firm refolu- f t
tion to unite in opposing all foreign influ- f e
ence. We feel and rejoi ein the happiness, tc
freedom and liberty we experience under f e
our present constitution, and we want no ' ul
further incentives, to induce us to devote ' ft
our services and our lives in the support of j pl
it. Nor c<n the attempts made, to mark us ' t \
out as diflatisfied, discontented, or divided, ' h
produce any other sentiments among us, but ' th
those of contempt and indignation. We !) r
have not failed to remark, that the conduft ,
of our government, under the preffnre of 1 re
foreign depredation and insult has been pa- i Dl
tient and pacific, to the utmost extent which ! d t
could consist with the honor and dignity of us
an independent people. And should all „
other measures fail, should our enemies |
drive u» to the last resort, —we humbly j nc
hope that Almighty God will look down 1 ft.
with favor on the exertions of freemen in
defence of their liberty and their c mntry.
JOHNWILLIAMS, Chairman.
John Ramsey, Secretary. vei
It was then unnni-youny resolved, that lii
e- this addreft be sent to William B. Grove
e- Esq. to be prefenced to the President ; and
id that a copy of it be published in the Fay.
ae etteville Gazette.—And the meeting was
;d adjourned.
e- John Williams, Chairman,
fe Tohn Ramfey, Secretary,
b- "
To the Inhabitants of Chatham county, in the
Jlate of North Carolina.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for this address, pre
id fented to me by one of your Reprefentativei
is Congress, Mr. Grove.
The explicit and unanimous declaration
'd of y#ur fulled faith, in the integrity and
:n 1 wisdom of all the departments of ifovern
- ! ment, and your firm ref< lution to unite in
it opposing foreign influence, ar* peculiarly
ly proper and agrt-eable at this time.
The happiness and freedom which you
a - candidly acknowledge to enjoy under the
d : present conditution, are the belt of incen
■e tives to induce you to devote your services,
s » an.' your lives, for the fupp rt of it.
J f You who are fatHfied, concerned and
c - united, cannot read the opposite chan&er
>e which has been given you, without con
ic tempt and iftdig atioti at tie calumny.
The govern mi t has ind ed been patient
and pacific, to the utmod * tut, which
lr could confid with th H l-onor and dignity of
n an independent .people u der the preflfure of
:e foreign insults, degradation , and cruelties
'f With you I humbly hope, that Almighty
God will look down witli favor, on he
'> exertions of freemen in Sefence of their
'r country.
r-j JOHN ADAMS.
" j Philadelphia, Junf sth, 1798.
y j
3 FOR THE GAZETTE OF Till UNITED STATES.
•»! - -
n{ No. 111.
j Antecedent to the Declaration of Inde
i pendence, our prejudices agairid the French
s ' wire as violent, as our attachments to them
; have been since that period. A Frenchman
1- 1 was, then, n objeft of almod as much con
r | tempt and ridicule in Philadelphia,asin Lon
e don. We had imbibed, from the Englilh
e writers and painters, the mod thorough de
- tedation of these people. Differing from
- them in language, manners and dispositions,
1 equally with the English, we were easily led
1 to consider them natural enemVs to the peo
, pie of the Colonies, as well as to those of
r the Mother Country. Even after the alii
ance with France, when it became our inter
s c'ft 'o throw off all these old and ridiculous
> prejudices, it wasjmpoflible to effeft it en
-1 tirely. We were grateful for their good
: services, and endeavoured to forget our an
- tipathies. While they kept at some distance
we regarded them as our friends and del'iver
-1 ers. But when fighting in the fame cause
- the French and American Soldiers were ne
p ceflarily separated ; it would fiave been im
, possible fur them to have inhabited the fame
1 tents in peace. And what is ft 11 more ex
traordinary, long since that period, when
our veneration and attachment feejned to
have been worked to the highest pitch, we
could not bear to afloeiate with them : We
1 admired and loved them at a refpeftful dis
tance. Whenever an American and French
men happen to reside together, in the fame
; Rouse, they mutually detett each other—
Do you fee Frenchmen afibciate with any
but themselves ? It is mod astonishing that
we (hould have profeiTed such unbounded re
gard for a nation whose citizens, individu
-1 ally, we cannot bear to keep company with.
The fame contradi&ion is observable
with regard to ourfelvesand the Enjliih
o".e would suppose from die public voice,
. that every individual of our country would
fly from an inhabitant of Grear-Britain, a«
from a wretch infefled with the plague
Exattly the reverse is the cafe. We live
with them in habits of the (trifled intima
cy.- What a tlrange paradox ! what a cu
r ous phenomenon ! We adore a Ftench
man and yet cannot bear him near us—we
hate an Englilhman and yet are as plcafed
to fee him within our houfesas a brother
I leave it to others to explain the riddle—to
account tor thi- en tanglement of love and
hatred. I reprobate natioral prejudices, e
qually with national attachments. It is my
business to demonstrate that there is no solid
foundation to love the one nation, nor to
hate the othtr.
I have said that I can find but little to ad
mire in mrnarchial, or republican France.
In vain shall we examine the hidory of that
Country to discover any of those liberties
and privileges whith Americans have judly
appreciated so dearly. The grievances we ,
took up arms to redress, were but " as a
Drop in the Bucket" compared to those
that the citizens of France laboured under
when their Sovereign espoused < ur cause.
We complained that taxes were imposed
upon us againd our consent ; and infilled
that taxation and representation ought al
ways to go hand in hand. We particularly
relented the jnjudice and cruelty of that aft
of Parliament which ordained that any per
fonindifted for murder, or other capital of
fence, committed in aiding the Magiflratei
to execute the obnoxious (latutes mig : itbe
sent to Great-Britain for trial. These were
unqueftionably, real grievances ; but vv at
(hould we have thought had the yoke of op
preflion born as hard upon us it did, at that
time, upon the French ? What ftionld we
have said if the King of England, without
the interposition of any other power, could
have imposed what taxes he pleased ?f This
the Kings of Fiance, for several of the lad
reigns, have aftnally done. Would our re
publican pride have fwbmitted to a certain
description of great and wealthy men among
us being exempted from paying taxes, as
was the cafe with the French Nobles who
had obtained with their titles the right of
not contributing to the expences of the
date ? What (hould we have fuid had the
King of England and his Miniders poflKTed
an unlimited power to imprison ? What of
f It was a maxim of the Frtnch Lawyers " Qui
vevt le Roy, si vcut la l oi." The will of tlit
King iitiii 7'iU.of law.*' Lettfer dc Cachet heing notoriouily fold j i
by the miftrefles and favourites" of our So. I a
rereign and " even by their subordinate a- ' a
gents," whereby any of us, without any | V
just cause, might have been suddenly torn I t
from his family and entombed alive ? Could it
we have brookrd the infamy of the feats in r
our Courts of jultice beine; mtorioudy fold j
to the high -ft bidder ? What Would the A- 1
merican spirit have led us to have done had i
any one dared to have stripped us of the c
right of trial by jury, and ordered our cri- 1
rtrinal courts, in deciding on the lives of our 1
I fellow-citizens, to have enveloped their pro- I
I ceeijinjps i» the (hade of privacy? What if (
we could not have txercifed.even the trade i
of B shoemaker or carpenter without pur
chiifing a patent ? All thiswasthe cafe with
the French before the revolution. This
was their identical situation when their king
became " our great and good ally" " the
gijardian genius of liberty" " the prote*lor i
of the opprefled." Had not this ktig and ;
his people fufficien't fc pe at home for the
elercife-of their humanity without crossing
the ocean to avenge our wrongs ? It cannot,
* for a moment be doubted, that the French
groaned under a load of much greater op
prcfiion than the one we had determined to
thfrow off. It would, therefore seem to
foffi', I ftijipofe, that the favour conferred
ivts the more disinterested. How fu h de
ceive tliemfelvKi ! H"ad it suited the prijle '
!aod ambition of France, instead r.f fig'. tingf '
f'lr lis,i to 'nave warred against us, no love of
liberty, no attachment to America would
hive cftiained her.
FABRTCIUS,
New-York, June 7th, 1798.
By this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, June 9.
VOTES FOR GOVEKNOR.
JAY. I.IVINCSTON.
>Ol7 457
Ilefftmcr 4.9
Stfobcn J3O -12
1541 888
440 majority nf yesterday.
1093 p eitnt majority for Mr, J«y,
BOSTON, June 6.
\_From the Salem Gazette ofyjlerday.J
SOTICES FROM FRANCS.
On Sunday two gentlemen, MelTrs. Hop
kins and Lee, arrived at Marbl-head from
France, and yesterday proceeded on their
route to Philadelphia, having difpatehes
$-<; m the American Envoys They were in
a vessel from Bourdeaux bound to fouth
*ard ; but meeting with a Marblehead fifh
erman, they went on board her, in expefta
j lion of arriving foonsr'at the feat of govern
rnentr Ttjefe gentleman dinned and supped
■with the Envoys on the 18th of March,
■who informed them that there was not the
least hope of effe&ing an accommodation,
that the Direftory would not relax in their
demands, and that they were determined to
leave France immediately. They may there
fore fliortly be espe&ed in America
Mr. Pincknev and Mr. Marlhall had been
treated very cavalierly while in Paris ; the
Ijire&ory that the fending of
them was an insult, b'ecaufe the firft had
been once rejefted, and the other was known
to be Jn'the English interest ; but Mr. Ger
ry (who thry fay was sent merely to make
Uie others acceptable) had been treated with
more civility.
At the time the utmost harmony
tnd fuhfi.'ted between all three, and they
j had,acted perfectly together in everything.
These gentleman further ms rm, that the
new clefliotis in France were going on while
they were on there way from Paris to Bour
deanx ; and, that these might not issue in
a manner contrary to the vitws of the direc
tory, a general imprisonment took place at
onee, of all wo were supposed to be un
friendly to them.
They further fay, that there is no doubt
that the people are heartily sick of the War
of the government •, but that the Dire£tory
controtil very'thing by the immense milita
ry force which they have accumulated, and
which they mo!t pundtually and liberally
maintain fr.>m an a-nple treasury.
The preparations for he invasion of En
gland, they fay, are b-yond all conception
and wear a m ft ferioun afpeft. The army
destined to this expedition was supposed to
consist of 150,000 men, or more; and it
wns said they'.would proce d in several divi
sions, and to different points, reckoning,
upon the calculation of chances,, that if one
failed, another might succeed. —Buonaparte
fee we have so often heard, was to be the
. commander in chief.
Accounts from Ireland are as much at
■cariance, as truth wi'.h sals:(hood. . Not-
Iwithftanding all the horrid narratives we fee
in tHe Sc Englifhfouthern papers of murders,
incendiaries, and infurre&ton ; an arrival at
this port, direct from Belfalt, which is the
{ revolutionary centre of the kingdom, an
noU"ces an entire tranquility ; and that
ftould the French invade the Iflard, (hey
would catch ten Irijb /jugs, for one fratern
al embrace.
; A company of 64 of the young Men of
this town who signed the Address to the
Ptelident has been enrolled, and its officers
cVofen. It will be rceollefted that the
1 > greater part of the young men are already
! enrolled ir. the train bands.
The rich ship belonging to Mr, Lyman ,
and others of this place, captured on hec
pafTage from the East lndiesto thisport', and
carried into England for trial has been ac
quitted. Her cargo, it is said, is v dued at
iooo.oool.The fhipis upwards of i2ootons
burthen
j Capt. Goorg* Ropes, in the br;g Patty
honrt i front Salem fur the Spanish Maixte,
' was taken on the 27th of April by a French
privatcerfchconet, who took out a'l his hands
except two boys, and put on board 7 French
man. A letter from Mr. Symunds mate fcf
tin brig Vulture of this town, dated at St.
Thomas's May 7 informs, that on the Jth
a boat airivtdthere with 7 French men, w ha
informed that tfiey wefe tti« pri«6-ma(ler
and men who were put ©n board the Patty,
and that Capt* Ropes with his 2 hoys and
had re-taken her from them, put them into
this boat, and preceded on his voyage—
though it is probable as he is dripped of his
men, thar he will put into the firft friendly
port. The letter does n©t give the particu
lars of this re capture effected by such an
inconsiderable ilrength against more than
double their numbers. Indeed one would
have expefted, that the cowardly villains,
however they might be 'oft to a sense of
shame in every thing else fhonld have felt
enough on this pccafion to induce them to
conceal the whole affair.
A report was current yesterday that a
French picatoon having fallen in with a
Newbury fifherman off the gulf of St. La
wrence, and bee use the command to strike
was not immediately complied with, he crew
of the pirate boardrd the fifherman, and
1 murdered the Ski per. The x<fidue of the
crew are said to have arrived at a port at the
eastward. ,
WALPOLE, (N. H.) June 5.
A weary French republican has pet it ion
: ed the directory that he may be banished to
Cayenner Th s is .the molt judicious
Frenchm-m that htis appeared, fuice the y<-ar
1789. The hot pepper (,f the place he in-
I dicat is sod more bland, th:;n the mbn
. Itroviifly compounded pottage, every poor de
vil is compelled to swallow, by the i)ireflors
of the French hotel.
Ob Sunday, third inff. at.about.two
o'clock, hail-ltqnes fell, near Billows's Falls,
or the size of lien's eggs.
ARTILLERY BLUES.
\ T a meeting of a number of the citizens of
± \ the city and liberties, at the houTe of George
Hill, for the purpose of forming an • rtili.ekv
Com pa nt, to t e attached to Macpierfun s Blues,
Saturday evening, June 2d, 1798,
Re'folved,
THAT a Committee, coitfiftirtg of fx, be ap
pointed to receive the fignaturcs of futh persons
(to the Articles of Afiociation) r.s arc disposed to
join the said Corps
That the Committee meet on Wednesday apd
Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, at the house of
Geoi'ge Hill, in order to confer and notify th« ap
plicants of' their election.
That the following persons be the Committee.
George Taylor, No. 4, Nicholfon'a Court ;
William Flin ham, No. 15, Keys s alley, or
New flrset ;
Richard Johns, No. 1, Oak fireet;
George Willing, No. 80, Walnut rtraet ;
John M'Cauky, No. 73, South Second ftree' ;
Theodore Meminger, No. 169, north Second ft.
The Committee invite their fellow citizens to
<-all upon them and enroll their names.
June 4. _
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt anV Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countess of Leiccfter Packet, in the nth
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,
arid the Certificates supposed to b« loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, {tanding on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird-Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067 1 dated the ifl day
of Jannary, «7Q7-
For the renewal cf which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at the Bank of
United States ; of which ail persons interested
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARPER.
Philadelphia, 5 mo. 26, 1798.
aaw3m
~~ NOW LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdcaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
88 caOcs CLARET
72 do. do. of a fnptrior quality
2 trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. ir, Walnut-Urcet.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
"White Wine i" half Calks * 1
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in j
taxes and bafleets
Lunelle t Entitled to
Sauterne / f Drawback.
Irilh Market V- WINES in Cases
Macarty and 1 |
Medcc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
may 29. eorltf
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. 117 Chefnut-flreet,
where Titles to Real estates are examined
, and Briefs thereof and Conveyance# of every
kind, prepared. may 22 awjw
The Rev. Dr. Blair's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
: Is just Publiihed, by
James Wattf.ks, isf Co.
And may also be had of the principal hookfcllers.
The firftvfclumeoftheWEEKLY Magazine
With an appendix containing the Prel:dtiit'?s
mefiage and rhe difpatc es is now* puhlifhed,
and may be had of the publishers—the prm
' cipal bookfdlers in Philadelphia—by George
Hill,/ Baltimore and by Alexander Somtrville
: New-York —A tew copies of the Difpatehes
may be had separate.
may 25 eodtf
' FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse Roset Waln,
: On Spruce street V* Uarf,
[ Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr.cafks
j Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16 eot f
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has aifianed his pro
perty for the benefit of hi-- Creditor*, t.« 1 ames
* C. Fifber, Samuel W. Fiftier, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
1 the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignees.
James C. iff Samuel IV. Filler,
r ■ • No. 13, Arch Street
march 31 *4tawtf
1 Six Cents Reward.
1 TJ AN awiy from the SuhYcrihe.r, the 'th Jim
" rv a bound Bqy about 12 vea's old, 'e an c
' fwers to the mmc of Henry Brown, or H Wan
dergnfF, whoever brings him To mc (hall receiv
1 the above rewaid but no charees paid,
j 7 hot. Wether ell.
June 7 lU'
Xi)t <2sa3ctte« 1
PHILADELPHIA, ® 0
MONDAY EVENING, Jam iu
At a refptflahle meeting of Merchants, at
the City Tavetn, on Monday, June 11,
1798. 3
Gborge Lati m er, in the Chair,
Refqheut That a Commit:ee be appoint- te
ed to receive lubferiptioe so the purpose
building and equipping two (hips, not ex
ceeding five hundred tons each, to he loaned to
to the government of "the U it ed S a'.es.
Refofacd 9 That Joftph Si nth any,
David {~h Conyngham,
Daniel Smith,
James Crawford,
Jof.ph Smilh, U.
Be a committee to receive ihe fubferip- |
tons I ; B
Rcfulvrd, that as soon as 40,0 o dollars
are tnbfcrihed, the committee shall call the j |n
Itibfcribtrs together f r the purpose of tak
g the iieccflary mtafures for completing J,'
the obj'Q of the fubfcrip:i<;n. |
JOHN Sec'ry. j "j
We t appy to acquaint our readers, ;
that -
already fubferibed for Ihe "above purpose. cf
C. 0 N G R ESS.
The Houftrcf Reprefenfatives of the Uni- jr
terf States spent Saturday principally in going !
through a very long bill to provide for the
valuation of lands and dwelling houses, and
the enumeration of tiaves within the I7nited
States, previously to the laying a direct tax
on them. The bill was gone through in the dt
committee of the whole, except as to what Cc
related to filling the blanks intended to con
tain the amount to be appropriated for carry- '
ing the law into execution, the {alary of the J
Commiflioners, AflTeflbrs, See. The commit
tee had leave to fit again. No other business p;
of importance was done this day. On the day w
preceding Mr. J. Williams reported a bill
for providing Arms for the Militia of the
nited States, which was committed for Wed
nesday, which was not noticed in our minute
j in Saturday's paper. m
FIRE. ' r
On Saturday evening, about a quarter past fix P
o'clock, the New Factory, in the Prison-Yard of .
this city (a semi-circular brick building, two flories lr
high and three hundred feet in extent) was disco- C
vered to be on fire, by volumes .of smoke issuing f t
from all parts of the building nearly at the fame a]
time.. The smoke was soon succeeded by flame,
and, though the city was immediately alarmed, and r "
the fipe-engfnes and thoufanc's of citizens flew to c
aflift in the quelling of it, the furioui element was
not got under before eight o'clock, by which time y
the whole of the roof, all the windows, three
fourths of the floor, and the greater part of the
machinery, tools, materials, &c. used by the" va
rious artizans employed therein, wer« destroyed.
It is not known at present from what cause the
fire proceeded, though, from the evil disposition
shewn by a few refractory prisoners for some-days
past, it is pretty strongly fufpedled to have been S
purposely done. This, however, is mere fuggef
cion. The Board of Infpedlors, we underfland, q
me«t this morning, to inflitute an enquiry into the
business.
The accident is much to be lamented, as this I
convenient and comnjodious building was but just
finifhed and got into complete operation ; and to
repair it, will not only cost a large sum of money, j
but will cause the greater part of the prisoners, in .
the mean time, to be kept unemployed *
Irt the garret of the building vvkich is destroyed, 3
there were large quantities of moss and curled
ha : r. It is supposed that one or more of these (
follows conveyed fire into different parts of this j
'mofc and hair, as the fire broke out in several pla
ces 3t the fame time. When it was firft discovered,
the keepers were conducing the prisoners to their
apartments for the night ; several mad? an attempt
to efcapd. but b) the exertions and CQurnge of the c
keepers they were all soon fecnrcw.
The house in which are thefolitary cells, Tortu- 3
nately did not take fire, though it was in cotifider- *t
able d nger The criminals confined in the cells c
were immediately removed. Much praise.is due a
o several citizens, who voluntarily posted them- j
felvesat the Western gate to prevent the escape of
any of the prisoners V
\
BLACK . COCKADE.
At the Fire on Saturday, it waswith much# F
pleasure I observed, several young men be-
longing to the new corps of Grenadiers ex- v
rrting themselves with the greatest adiivitv
in themo-l expoftd and laborious-fictions ; c
and that the wearers of the Cockade gcneially 1
were in a particular manner diitinguifhed by
the zeal and energy of their exertions.—
Well done ! may this ever be said of you ; 1
and may your hands never be idle, your f
nerves weak, nor your hearts faint, when 1
yovr country's fafety requires your aid. c
cms.
MR. FENNO, ,
lobferved on Saturday at the Fire, some fcoun- <
drel Frenchmen display ing the most open marKs (
of exultation at the alarming situation of that
important Safeguard of our city, the goal : nor I
id their infultine conducl stop here—with the (
most atrocious effrontery, they exerted them- '
selves in deadening the exertions of the citizens \
y Crofting the lanes and endeavoring toconfufe ]
iiul obftrud the operations. They were doubt- (
ef» of the infernal Jacobin brood ; and these
thi-'gs should convince us of the determined de
navity and malice of the deteftahle crew.—
Vhat, indeed, ought to be ex peeled of a French
man, who, af'.er having been received with ©pen
irms, into a friendly and hofpitabie afylufa, can «
be bife enough tr: bear the bloody tri-co!or,
emblem of rapacity, tyranny and oppreffton,
he eitign of b:ood!hed, carnage and maH'-cre r
Can any man d übt that foch a mrfcreant pof
t.elfrs a foul ripe for murder, treafnns, plots and
dark confpiraciet ? ADOLESCENS.
COASTING TRADE IN.DANGER.
u If nqthi.ig could be done by the En
voys, arrangement would be made forthwith
to ravage the coasts of the United States," i
said M. Y. in his conference with Mr.
Gerry in December lalt : and it seems, fibm
the following, that this menace is in a fair
way to be put into execution.
ExtraS of a letter irom a merchant of New-
JLondon, Connecticut, dated June 4,
1798, to a member of Congress from that
state.
44 On Saturday last Capt. Francis Bulkly
arrived here in ?. schooner from Martinico, j
with molaflVs, who was brought to, about
fix days before, by a (hip direct fiora
France, mounting 20 guns 3 to cru.ze on our'
coast , and four or five more were defttned
on the fame errand. They had taken a vefTl
from Tobago, bound to Portsmouth, with 'j:
a cargo of rum, and fu.nk a v {fel f-om the
southward with a load of corn to
Antigua, as not valuable enough to fend to
France, where they were dire&ed to fend
all prizes. Molasses.not being worth fend
ing tcr France, and expecting to get much
more valuable veflels, lie dismissed Captain
Bulkly." 3
In addition to the above, several priva-
tecrs from Guadaloupe, Puerto Rico and "
St. Domingo, are known to be now upon J.
the coast, one of which has hsd the audacity,
to make a plundering descent upon Edifto
Ifl'and, another to capture veflels off Sandy
Hook, and a third to pursue her piracies
ten miles within the Capes of Delaware. If
they have hitherto fuffered ourcoafting
| trade to pass without an embrace, it mull
j ha*c been because (he part which has fallen
| within their power was not " worth feud- 1
ing to French portsV Our citizens will .
i therefore do well to attend to the danger
!in win ch they are in this refpedt really ex- c
j posed. They will call to mind, that the w
j snrtftramed rapacity of these modern buca- — _
neers is encouraged and prote&ed by a set
| of decrees, calculated for all circUmstanCes
; and fituati- ns in which our property can be
found at sea, and as effe&ual to ensure its b
condemnation, asif general letters of marque
and reprisal were in a&ual operation. - j
I Extraft of a letter from Rufus Kingcfq. Mi- C
nillerof the United States in London to v
T. Bickering Secretary of State dated A- j
pril 6, 1798. * | -
" The Court of Appeals have .reversed the 1
drpree of ; he Hijrh Court of AHmir lty which
condemned the arms claimed by Gen. Allen;
have decreed that the arms be delivered to J
the General on bail ; and that fie give fur- v
ther proof the purchase of them, *
particularly refpr&»Vg the 100000 livres A
which the contradl dates to have been paid
by him to the French Government."
NEW!
1
It is said this gentleman is so hard driven y
in letter writing that he has for several days {,
past employed one L las an amanuenfts F
for the gor»d of his country. It is not very
, improbable, however, that the patriotic
colonel may {land in need of a little aid in 1
sense and language as well as in therilechanical T
art of writing and tranfer bing. At any I
' rate we may soon cxpe& to kear oT more '
I CIRCULAR LETTERS. r
i How long Americans, will you iuffei c
: yourselves to be deceived by these despicable c
tools of faction and a foreign power ! J
GAZETTE~MARINE LIST. f
t
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA ,
ARRIVED, t
Sloop Robert, Briggs, Savannah, 7 days.
Came up from the Fort,
Ship Pigou, Clay, Canton
Alexander Hamilton, Potts, Martinico
Brig Molly, Kilby, Gonaives
Liberty, Duer, Jacquemel 1
A ship, the barque Adriana, Lee, from
London, (via New-York) the schooner j
Commerce, Arnold from Cape Francois, ,
and 4 other schooners are below. I
The Ganges sloop of war, and cutter i
General Green, were in com pany off Cape :
Henlopcn on Saturday last after feeing the ,
Adriana fafe in.
Neiu-Torky June Q. .
Capt. Quinton of the brig Prudent from ]
St. John's, New Brunfwick, was taken,
and his veflel burnt in the afternoon of the
7th instant about ten leagues to the S. S.E. '
of the Hook. Capt. Quinton inform- that *
at 3 o'clock the fame day, the British brig J
~ Earl Moira, was engaged with the French
privateer, and'fired 20 guns, when the pri
vateer stood off to the southward and the ;
brig pursued. The captain of the French 5
j, privateer informed captain Quinton, that
. his orders were in cafe any Ameiicaji armed (
veflel made resistance, to give them no quarter. s
j It is probable that the privateer has not
. escaped, from the circumstance of the Earl
j Moira being a fail sailor.
Bojlon, June 4. '
Arrived, Ship Argo, Gilmore, Anguilla,
12 days May 27, off Bermuda was boarded
from the Hind British frigate—treated well
1 She had captured three French privateers
on the American coast-
Netvburypori[, "Jane. c.
ARRIVED
Brig America, Allen, Liverpool; Schr. B-.tfey.
Matrhews, Boflon ; Schr. Bee, Parsons La Guayia ;
l * Schr. Thankful, Ward, St. Martins: Ship Caroline,
s Glafirr, KingUon, Jam.
t Yeflerdav arrived (he armed barque Luna, ca_pt.
r Millburv, 23 days from Matunjco, via Tortola, 15
e days Came <»ut under convoy with a fleet of 265
fail Briiifh veflels ai dSO fail of Americans. The
convoy cap'ured 6 French privateers and drove One
. S afhqre. who were lurking iuund the fleet, waiting a
c favorable oppori unity to take fame owl. The Luna
[" carries 4 guns, and on coming up saluted the town.
c 16 Fiench paflengers came in the Luna. Left at St.
-- Piene, (hip Fortitude, of Poitlaud.
Baltimore, June 8.
1- Arrived this day, ship Henrietta, of Philadelphia
n Benjamin Wickes, 16 da-, s from La Guira—Cocoa,
I! caffee and cotton—James Bairy. L(ft there, fchoon-
er lietfey, Compton, to fail lor Baltimore in 35 days
—and no others from hence; bng Eagle, of Phila
] delphia ; schooner Sincerity, of do. ship Margaret,
of New-York : fchr. American Fabius, of George
town ; fchr. Lydia. of New-York; a brig from Phi
" la<!f!phia went into La Guira a? captain W. came
out.
Savannah, May 29. Letters have been receiv
ed from John M'Kenzic, mafler of the brig Patfey,
5 'of Norfolk, and And ew Carson, m?fter of the sloop
1 Dependence, of Philadelphia, wjio failed from this
f> j port in April last, and soon after : aken by a Spanish
! privateer and ordered for St. AUgustine, in Halt Flo
r. ; rid a, where they cgrived the 38th ult> and were ex
m amined, cleared and ordtfrof the Gover
]r nor, on the 4th instant—they had no expences to
pay, nor was there any thing ail awed for detention
or damages: they mention with gratitude, that the
Governor and Judge paid great attention to theii
r> unfortunate situation, and that they received very
ac great r.ffiftance from several gentlemen of St. au
guftine. ,
!y' " WANTED,
°' 1 Approved Bills ort London,
■ FCXH. which tafll will he p-i'l at pur. Enquire
of the Gafhier of thv bank of the United States.
Jr june 5 , §
For Sale by the Subscribers, ,
The following GOODS, j'uil arrived in the fnitf
capt.'Clay, from Canton,
Bohea,
Hyson Skin, > TE A
Young Hyson. j
Sugar in boxes and fa^s'
And a quantity of Cain i
ALSO TO BR sot.B,
rX>vThe said ihip PIGOtT,
A well known, fafl failing Ship*
live iak and «edar frame,
■^r,ttoe»eSr-«*^p ere d. .She mca'fures 76 feet kel<
28 feet 6 inches beam, 12 leet hold, and 6 feet
between decks. #
Merdfcal Lewis,
.7# &? Robert Wain}
IViliiam Sanfum.
jane 11. §aw
IXI lllenery Room,
1.16, Market street.
Miss CH R Y $ TA L t
INFORMS her lriends, that (he has received by
the late arrivals from Europe, her usual lup
ply of the very latest fafhions in M'LLENERY,
«sec. with a variety of Stfiw, Leghorn, and
Chip HATS and BONNF.TJ3, of the newest fhapesj
which will be opened this day.
June tr. 20t
Board and Lodging.
WANTED, in a private family, where there'
are no fmart»childr<in, board and lodging
hy the year, for a gentleman, his wife, three
children and servant As the partis propose to
find thoir own furniture, and willb<* atisficd with
plain fare, it is cxpe&ed ihe terms will be rrafon
able. An airy fitoation in the neighborhood of
CJiefnut Market and /*rch ftrijefs to the weih
ward ot Founh l*rt et, will be preferred,
in qui re of thi Printer.
ju-.e Tt $
I hereby give tvo'ice,
TO all my er<. Jiturs, tha f 1 : ave ap lied bj pe
tition to the judges o[ the court ot ccmiimn
pleas sor the.c ir ty «.f ;•hdndelphia. at 'heir fcf
fion in Ju. c term in tjvs that they
would extend to me th' benefit c 1 an aet o f Gen
fral Affembiy of ihi> Cmmonwealrh. pasTed the
4th day hf April r-9?., entitled 4 An Act pro-"
vidiag that the per! nof a cebtoY {bail notb- lia
ble to imprifonmc t for debt'after delivering ujy
his eftatc for the benefit of hb cieditors, unlef* he
hath been guilty of fraud or emfe Lenientand
that the said court hath appointed .Monday her
25th diy of June inflant, at to O'clock, P. VI. to 1 .
hear me and my creditors at ftich place as the court
fliali b<? held, where they may d if they thinfc
proper. JOHN GRAHAM.
June 11. §£2s
The Subicriber hereby gives
Notice to all hi? creditors, that he has app kd by
petition to the judges of the court of common
pleas for the county of Philadelphia, praying that
they would extend to him the benefit of an A<sl of
AffemVJy, of the Commonwealth cf Fenvfylva
nia, entitled 44 An A£l providing that the person
of a debtor shall not be liable to imprisonment for'
debt, after delivering up his estate, for.the benefitf
of his creditors, unless he hath been guiltyof
fraud e>r embezzlement,'* and that the fait! court
have appointed Monday the 2 f th day of June,in
ftant, to hear the fubferiber, and his creditors, afi
the Court House in the city of Philadtlphii, at
which time and place they may attend, if they
think proper. PETER CONIVAT.
Philadelphia, June 11.
ADVERTISEMENT.
DESERTED from a detachment under th©
command of captain Edward Miller, Ra
tioned at Spring Gardens.
June 3d, 1598 —John M'Kiflbck, |born in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion* pock
marked, aged 4$ years, (peaks broad, mhiled
by ensign Root, at New fiiunfwick, had on his
.full regimentals, stole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard asid very afluxning.
June 6tk —James Crawlofd, born in Chefler,
State of MafTachufettS brown hair, grey eyes* .
fair complexion, five feet 1 * inches in height,
aged 24 years, by a blacksmith, ha i oa
his full regimentals and left bis post when on
feiitry. -ilfo,
EliakimStow, a prisoner, born in SymfburV,
State of Connecticut, aged 36 years, bLck-han*
eyes and complexion, a repeated d-elerter,
very afiuming, write? a tolerable hand arid is ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental (hir: and over
alls when he deserted the guard.
Wh will apj)rehentPthe above
and return them to Spring Gardens in Philadel
phia, cr to any officer belonging to-the United
States or confine :hem in any jspal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained fh ill hate ten
dollars reward for either of Ou-tti, or thirty for
tlie three an/l all reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
2d regiment of Infantry.
*2* The different printers i.i the union ar«
requeued to insert the above.
June it § .
1 his Day is Published,
ANDFORSALEBYJ FEN NO, I «g,CH EStiUT-Si R EEI
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and pre ft »t Hate of
French aggreflion, with a sketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
State*, and foflie rcfleclio .« on the late proceedings
in Co'-.greli ; within the lait of April in the pre
leat year, by a Member of the House of RcpreAa
tatives.
junell f
Brown Stout.
jo calks BROWN STOXJT, of 6 an.l 7 doz. each,
1 Ju(t received per capt Joyce, ai°d for lale by
Benjamin W. Morris«
LIKEWISE,
200 cafss CLARET, of the Very firil quality,
jnne 9. mw3&t
: Was Taken,
s Salter's Wharf, on Tuesday lal), a box
- L. of Drugs marked [i']} No 4, larded irom on
, board the Ship Nancy, captain Joy, from London.
Any person liavivg the ian:e will be plcafed to
• information to
'Jofepb Ai tljony iff Co.
jung 8 'V?t
. NOTICE,
r r T"*HE Owners or Consignee* of vefT-ls per-
JL forming quarantine are'o tfike* notice that
a cart arrives from the Hospital it the Health-
Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning ( Sundays excepted) luch supplies as are to
0 4)e forwarded to veficls are desired to-be sent t»
the Health Office before the hour of nine.
e june 8 $
y The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
1 'ROM BOUR/XliS/'JX,
COVSI STING OF
1 Clwet in hitt'e. and Ci'.'cs
Oy!, Capers, C liven, AnchovTcs ant! Prijnes
FOR SAI.E ny
e 1 hoxa: Fil^f.mor.s
mr.yiS.Frcfh Teas.
"J up Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
and by
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
iSohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, liyfon Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sartins, NaHkecns, Cafßa, large gardan
'And common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also For Sale t
Ell wide Periians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes.
. march 8. $
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near .Second-street,
adjoining the wall ©f Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
con fitting of a Piazza, Kitchen andahandfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a rraore particular description iscon
fidered unnecefiary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ia
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG *
Nd. 12 Dock-fireet.
may 16 §
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other ot
namental purposes (iu a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnithed with all possible dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in ftiU* (not that
superb stile of, modern elegance peculiar toG.R.)
but m a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tilt mailer ot hi? proteflion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf.
that pfofeffional talents, pun&uaiity, and reason- j
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi'lpleafe to c.:li at his Painta |
ng Rooms. §6w may 5. j
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wifliing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a matterly manner, will no
doubt feel themfelyes obliged for the kind can ion
given Ky George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf-
UAltering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents
of Pfenry Frailey, at Germantown may to.
Tea Warehouse,
OTPOSTTE THE POST-OFFICE,
r pHE Subscriber returns her sincere thanks for
A the encouragement Ihc has experien
ced since? her commencement in business, begs leave
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he has
reccivtd a freih supply of all kinds of Tea from the
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will he her
conftat't enpeavour to merit their future (upport.-*-
She is in daily expectation of receiving a large sup- <
ply of good Coffee.
SARAH EATON.
may 30 tn&fß: /
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
"worth the attention of Houfekeepere to make
puichafe of Enquire of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-fireet.
_ may 17 §
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
on the Books of thetreafury, were
O forwarded for London by the ihip William
renn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured, '
and the Certificates to be loft, viz :
3164. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall, 1
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,07 a. ( i
8021. 1?. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No.
10199. 1
40183. 7». Three per Cent. Stock, in the name 1
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street, 1
London, Widow, dated Odober 31 1797. No.
11820. 1
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the ftid office of 1
of the United Statis,—and all per- 1
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO— IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen shares Storkof Bankof United States.in
the name of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty ot Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc defircd to
take notice. >
JN. VAUGHAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. §6w
The following Certificates of Shares 1
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company inthe name of
Darnel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dleftx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
13096 to 13105, ten lb ares—No. 2150 —13066 to 1
13075, ten (harts—No. 2149—13056 to 13065, 1
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten shares 1
—No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to I
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the '
fh.p William Penn, which having been captured, <
said certificates arefuppofed to be 101 l j for ihe rs.
n»?\val of which, applicnjion will be made to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Li/lcr.
may 1 *d6w 1
FOR SALE, I
A Black Man,
' t
WHO has five years and a half' toferve, is a >
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and a
hi" been accuilomed to marketing for a family—> v
li* age about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, spply it the office *f this Gaz«tte. c
may 15. § i c
This day Publijhed,
and for sale, at
Wm. Young's Bock-store,
No. sa, Chefnut, corner of Second fttreet,
On fine woven Pa per, • with Elegant
Dedicated to the President of the United States,
The Studies of Nature,
Translated from the French of
James Henry Bernardin de St. Pierre,
By HENRY HUNTER, D. D.
THIS very ingenious, interesting and inflru&ive
work has fines its firft publication, gone
through four successive inipreflions, under the au
thor's immediate infpe<sUon ; besides a variety of
1 printed editions in different parts of the European
' continent.
No book displays a more sublime theolojjy, in
culcates a pursr morality, or breathes a more ar
' dent and expansive philanthrophy 3t.Pierre ena
* bles us to contemplate this universe with other
eyes ; has furnifhed new arguments to combat
atheism ; has eftabliftied, beyond the power of
contradi&ion, the do&rine of a universal provi
l dunce, has excited a warmer interest in favor of
fuffering humanity, and has discovered sources,
unknown before ot moral and intelle<ftual enjoy
ment.
The avidity with clergy and other
learned chara&ers in New-England, have purchas
ed the English edition of this delightful pelform
ance, and the opinion entertained by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
before the " Age of Reason," a part of it con
tains a more solid and com pleat refutation of it,
than any thing published since, are perhaps a Effi
cient recommendation of the Studies of Nature ;
in which the Botanist, the natural and chrillian
Philosopher, the friend of erder and government
are equally interclted, and by whieh they will be
equally gratified.
As no pains nor expence have been spared in
procuring suitable paper and able artists, to render
the work worthy ®f the public ; and as the Sub
scribers hive expressed rheir approbation of' ul the
publisher flatters himfelf, that gentlemen, who on
account of the bad paper and print of some Ameri
can editions, give gencral'y the preference to the
Eaglifh, \\ ill honor this with a comparison, before
they pur chafe.
The Naval Gazetteer ;
Being a complcat Geographical Di&ionary, contain
ing a full and accurate account, alphabetically arrang
ed, of ail the Countries and islands in the known
world ; (hewing their latitude, foundings, and flat ion
for anchorage; with a particular description of the
several Bays, Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Cur
jcnts, Gulphs, Harbors, Havens, Lakes, Occam, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, Sounds,
Straits, Tides, Variation of the Compass. ftc. To
gether with a particular relation ot the shape and ap
pearance at sea, of the several Headlands, isthmuses,
Peninsulas, Poins, Promonto ies, and whatever is of
use or importance to the Master, Pilot, Commander
| or Seaman of any (hip or vefiel, in navigating the wa
try element.
Also, Comprehending
| Ample dire&ious for failing into or out of the differ
j ent Ports, Sjraits and Harbor of the four quarters of
i the world ; and for avoiding dangers on the various
J and extended coast ; in which more than twelve thou
sand diftiptt names and places, &c. are treated of and
explained. With acorreft set of Charts, a vols. Bvo.
I By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM.
(£ST This has been pionounced the most ufeful and
the cheapest book publilhed in America. It was un
dertaken f< veral years since, under ihe auspices of
Lord Sandwich v. hile he was at the head of the Ad
miralty of England, and from which every aflift
ance necellury to complete so arduous a work, was
readily furnithed, but it never made its appearance
uniiJ last year. The favor it'obtained with Matters of
veflels and other gentlemen concerned in Navigation
, induced the publisher to prepare this edition wherein
the American Ports, Harbors,&c, have b.en corre&ed
by a gentleman of great abilities, and exienfive infor
mation on the fubjeft.
nny ai 2aw4w
MEAD ACHE.
PERSONS affli&ed with the Head Ache, pro
ceeding. fr«m whatever cayfe, will find in
stant relief in the application of
Dr. Church's Anodyne Eflence,
In Rheumatic, Nervousand Billious Head Aches,
it has not its equal. It not only alleviates that
tormenting pain, but removes it almost instantane
ously. The Head Ache occasioned by hard drink
ing, and any local pains in any other part of the
body or extremities, are by its application effectu
ally removed.
CASES OF CUR).Z.
To Dr. Church.
Dear Sir,
I have been fubjed to a very severe Head Ache
for several years, which sometimes used to afflid
me to such a violent degree, as to disable me from
attending my duty as Draftfman, of the Tower,
for several days together. I have had the advice
of several cniinent Physicians in this city and in
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re
commended to me without effedl. Being one day
extremely indisposed with the Head Ache as usual,
I sent for you, when you recommended your Ano
dyne Eflence to me, which I applied, and which
removed the pain, as soon as I applied it.—l fre
quently repeated the use of it, and am happy to
iolorm you, I have had no return of it.
I am, Dear Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN BARNES.
Drawing Room, Tower of London, May 9, 1795.
From the Morning Advertiser y March 26 1795.
Another gentleman in his Majesty's service in
the Toweijot London, has been extremely abid
ed with the Head Ache tor fomciyears, and fome
tiraes tofo violent a degree, as to prevent him from
attending the duties of his office ; at one of which
times, he sent for some of Dr. Church's Anodyne
£.ffcnce, which he applied, and which removed the
pain instantaneously ; and he is happy in affirming,
that he has had no return of th * pain since, '
1 he above gentleman, whole name and address
may be known at the place of sale, will teftify the '
above, to any candid enquirer.
Church's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared 1
and fold (only) by the Inventor and Proprietor, 1
DR. JAMES CHURCH,
At his Medicine Store, No. 1, South Thitd street, 1
Philadelphia.
where may also be had,
Church's Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by 1
any other in the world, for the cure of Coughs, \
Althmas and Consumptions.
Also, his Cordial Rejlcrative Balfim y for Nervous
Difordej-s, Inward Weakness, Debilitated Confti- 1
tutions, and Disorders incident to Young Gills and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eye
Salve, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lotion,
for the cure of Freckles, Sunburns, Pimples, and
all Eruptions of the Face and Skin, Shingles, and 1
the Prickly Heat ; V alatile Tinflure, an immediate {
cure for that excrutiating pain the Tooth Ache ; 1
Scotch Ointmsnt, for ths cure of the Itch, in four 1
hours, with ut a particle of mercury, or any per- *
niciaus ingredients ; and Antfpofmodic Elixir, for '
the cure of all kinds of Fits.
ma y aawjw '
For Sale*
A Farm and Count.i r Seat,
SITUA TED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to iN'orris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia— farm contains acies of land, 50
«} which are woodland, abotnt 40 of meadow, and 1
the left arable land. The houfc and garden which is
'ajge and well paled, ftard in the molt pleasant fix
ation, commanding a view of fho river, «n ifiand
which isoppofne. and the village of Norris-fown— 1
There is a lhad fifhery belonging to the place —En- 1
qui're in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street, '
01 on the premises. April 16 lawtf
Treafary Department,
March j9, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
T'HATpropofals will be received at theOfficeof
. WWJ t the Secretary of theTreafury until the expi
ration of the ifth day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be Required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firli day of
O&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
ive diftriA hereafter mentioned, viz. AtOfwego;
3iK at Niagara > a t Prefque Isle ;at Michilimackinac ;
au _ at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;at Le Beuf ;at
po f Cincinnati ;at Greenville ;at Picque Town and
'an Loramie's Store ;at Fort Wayne ;at Fott Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
in- ami ver to Lake Erie ;at Fort Knox and Oua
ar_ tanon on the River Wabafh ;at Mallac; at any
na place or places on the east fide of the River Miffif
her PP* above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
bat on River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Miffifiippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the f.State ; at
, es Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
' Posts in the State of TennefTee ;at anyplace or.
places on the east fide of the River Mifliftippi, be
ler low ft> ut hern boundary of the State of rennef-
fee, to thefoutherii boundary of the United States.
m _ If fuppiies shall be required for any posts or
nd P' aces n °t mentionecfin this notice,all such fuppiies
:en urn '^* e d a t prices proportioned to those to
>u- P 0^9 before recited, as may be agreed on be-
j t tween the United States and the contrador.
The rations to be supplied to th" sol-
E . lowing articles, viz.
an ' One pound of bread or flour
;nt One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
be or bacon
Half a jili of rum, brandy or whif
in ky, onc <l uar t °f Salt, two quarts ( j lu^f | r^( j
!er of Vinegar, two pounds of foap,f r "" io "
one pound of candles J
h e The rations are to be furnifhed in fHch quantities,
on as that there ihall at all times during the said term,
ri- Efficient for the coniumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego %
>re or l^c term °I si« months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the tirm of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame (hall be required. Iti->tvbeun
derftood, that the contrador is to be at the ex
n- ppnee and rifle of ifluing the fuppiies to the troops
ig- at each post, and that all loflfes faftained by the de
vn predations of an enemy, or by means of the
on troops of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
ir " the depositions of two or more persons of credita
a" ble chara<fters, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the c?rcun»ftances of the
loss ancf the amount of the articles for whioh coni
penfation shall be claimed.
o p The priviiedge is reserved to the United States
| er of requiring that none of the fuppiies which may
, a _ be furnifhed under the proposed coßtrad, ihall be
issued, until the fuppiies whieji have or may be
furnifhed under the contrad now in force have
, r been consumed.
of OLIVER WOLCOTT,
us Secretary of the Treasury.
u " march 27. aawtijjy
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
id 50 Chests of Prime Tea^,
n - /CONSISTING of Imperial, Hyson, Souchong,
Vx HyfonSkin, Young Hyson and B >hea, just ar
rived in the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; several com
ft plete sets of elegant China; 1000 pieces of Nankeen
as of superior color and quality; a few pieces of eom
cc mon Madrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In
of dia Silks, confiding of Luteflrings, Sarlneis, Peifians,
>n Sec. &c. of different colors,
in also, for sale —Entitled to th ed> awbaek,
j? 5000 boxes of Pate Grafle Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the ship Juno and Joieph from Amficrdam.
T. B. Free.7l an,
No. 39 South Front-street, or at his counting
5 " house, No. 40, South Water-Hreet.
n- may 30. mf6c
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON S/LK—bt
at' George Rutter fcf Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
c TN a stile which will endure (he hardships of the
A weather without injury, and wh-ck for nes.tnef*
and exaditude of colouring cannot befurpafled in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en the most moderate
ie terms.
a Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
r fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rn'ter pledges
n himfelt from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hii friends and the
public.
1, In the Military Line,
>- A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
ii Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
0 may 3 d6w
NOTICE. :
HAVING obferyed an advertifemert of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro- '
n sessional abilities, we have to request t)ie public '
. not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by aeomparifon ot
a the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost ]
univerfally adopted by them to invalidate the ta- <
, lents of etlablifhed artists, with a view of deeeiv- \
s ing the public, and engrofling that business which ,
r their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles ■ (
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must ,
fs g overn > we flatter ourselves that the workexecut- j
e ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por-
trait and ornamental painting, andfhew thenecef
fity of judging for thcmfelves.
N. B. In future no attentian will be paid to th* 1
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G. 1
Any person wj filing a supply of FLAGS and •
DRUMS will please apply to Gao. Rutter and 2
Co. Norris'Court, or Henry Frailey, Germae- 1
town. may 8. 1
To be Sold, in Burlington, j
Immediately oppofits the wharf un the rives De
laware,
A Large new two story brick House, and Lot
sixty ieet in front and one hundred deep—
The House consists of two large parlours, one 17
by al, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
"well finifhed garrets, a large kitchen, paqtry,ftore J
room, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar- 7
. den, all new, well finifhed and in perfed order, j a
r Immediatce poflefiion will be given. Enquire of J s
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Dardin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and (hew the r
- preraifes. may 24 3taaw
Now Opening,
At Wi 1.l 1A m M'La w s Saddle Masufadtory, -
No. 72, Chef nut Street, j
' A general assortment of Horfenaan's r
Piftols,direil fromthe Manufacturers in London. £
s r
ALSO ON HAND,
1 Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
. Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather 1
, Carriage and Chair Harnefi, &c. f
f april 9 dtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1796.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A& of Congress pafipd on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ni iety-feven, e> titled 14 An A>sl laying duties On Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper'*, and the
A«fl palled on the fifteenth day of Decambcr, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ad to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A& enti
tled " An AA laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from* and after ahe
firft day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will he levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
I.
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, *pon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writingsiollowiag—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - . . s
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvocatt or Prodlor, in any Court of the i
United States, - - I 0
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of, the United States
for one of the said Officei, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforei'aid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of* the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent', under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) -
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Kefpondeutia Bond, - j
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a personal estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftributUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, -
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
And for every further sum of Five Huudred Dollars, the additional sum of ,
Any Policy of Insurance or iniirainent in nature thereof, on any ship, vefTe'l or
goods insured from one diflridt to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum which
Insurance is made shall not exceed live hundred dollars, - 2
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - ,
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
ftarwifh for the use oftlfe United States or some particular state,
Any flond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contratt, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
use refpeilively, -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
Provided-, that if any bonds or notes Ihall be payable at or within sixty days, 7S
such bonds or notes ihall be fubjeOil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforei'aid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding o»>e hundred dollars, - j
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, I 4
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I 10
If above one thousand dollars, - - -
Any Notes ifTued by the banks now established, or that may hereafter be eftab- 3 °
lifhed within the United States, other than the no»os of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per ceruum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpetfively, according to
the following scale. - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding oae hundred dollars,
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - -
On all notes above five hundred dollars,
Any Protest or other Notarial ad>, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain or fell War- '
rants for Land granted by the Uuited States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, -
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - x
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2 '
For more than two thousand dollars, - -
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
H from one to another diftrufl of the United States, not being in the
fame State. - - . -
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - f ° .
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effV<sh, made in any, 1S
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal procef3 by any officer,)
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inf*ran< e Company, of a share in the Bank of 5 *
the United Stat; s, or of any State or otlier Ba' k, * - - t
I above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars, - 10
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dellirs 2,5
11. ' 1
The dutiesaforelaid will be colleaed and received by the Supervisors, TnfDefior* . r.n:
of Infpeition, i* the several DillriA,, S.rveyo and LMvifions of the United Vta-es a«d L ? 1*"
.crfonsa. fhallfrom t.timebefpeciallyjppointod and employed by the Supervisors of DiflrifU for
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrifls will, prior to tie firft diy of Tult
may be pradicable, mark or stamp, w.thout fee o. reward, any quantities or parcels of Vr\hZ p°J u '
mcnt or Paper, witk any of the rate, of duties before enumerated, o» payment of thef o"
stamped vellum, parchment and paper t,.av at the option of the Citizens of the United Sratt P '
tamed at the rates prefcr.bed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infp.aor Offirrr In, r a
or other psrfon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisor, ~| Diflriels Illf P ea ' en »
G/rEN under my a! Philadelphia
the day and year ■>bover»ention e d
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
TU K ii? v nirPAUTML'iJ'i''.
Treasury depa
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
. byana£l of Congrcfs palled 011 the
X 19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<ft pa fled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled 11 An a<Sl laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper/'
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Cultoms or dyties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpedlors refpe&ively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chafe atone time or procure to be stamped, anv
quantitiesof Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties ihall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price'of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
• Vellum, an additional pr'ce will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kiH of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin 6f
Vellum of medium size, which may be fumiffe
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for anyleflVr quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir above nentioved.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the T e a fury.
To be Let,
(And pofTeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, asd 40 feet deep, with back buildings
i and stables.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
; son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrcct.
April 2. $
The Co-partnership of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Co.
IS this day diflolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Jofepn Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tolittle the affairs of 'heconcern.
JOSEPH f. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner of Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—-Enquire of ]o
feph Davidfon.
»pril«6 wksjm
tment,
4°,939 :icre s of Land.
TN Greene < ounty, Commonwealth of Pennfyl-
A vama, on ihc witin of Filh and Wht.clin E
Creeks and ten Mil# Run.
Ihefe Landssrefertile and well timbered, and
abound m Coal , they were fold ten years ~go for
five fh,lUngs per are ; patented early in , 7 8 7l ei-
Cept 3 .?°, acrcs > wh| cl> were patentod in 17,91 -
part 0! them lurveyed in 1783. The tr?,&
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town o( Waflimgton, from 14 to 16 from the
Tillage of Greeoefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the reii
u'"' .. Enquire of the Printer,
april n.
TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,j80 acres of Land,
[N the State of New York, between tho northern
ho "nds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehsnna
now, or late in the townships of Hamden Md!
Warren and county of Warren.
rhefe Lands, irom thur quality and situation.
are a very desirable objed for any man who mean,
to inyctt his njoney to Advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will i e given for the refw
due- ~ Enquire of the Printer,
april 21.
Country Residence.
A F AMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
to recei « tw ° or three genteel hoaid
era. The House is handsomely lurnifhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn arc beautifully laid
out, and well flocked with the choicest Fruit.
There arefeveral Musical Instruments, aioongft
winch' is a most excellent patent Piano Forte! The
Fannly have a handfon e Coach, which may beat
the lcrvice of the whole.
The Coa'ch House and Stables are most excellens
-th« Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the effice of thisGa-
ZCtte " may 16,
ADVERTISEMENT. P
W I i E^ ,AS - tte subscriber and his wife Jane
» Hodgkinfon, have by mutual consent agreed
tol'V, fcparate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
person, from trufling heron my account, as br
contra*! (he ~ to support herfelffor the future, and
I am determined not to pay any debt cf her cor
traoling. SAMUEL HODGKINSON.
may ijt j * .
' v # jtiaw
TO BE 8 OLD,