®a?ette cf tfje Mnim Jstatts 9 AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chefm.it Sir set.
WvMBEt 1(158.] • PHILADELPHIA.- TUESDAY EVENING, JANUART 2, 179*. Xlh.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Colfas
40 do. Baftas Ni
11 do. Mimoody I"
17 do. Chintz . F
J do, Toowery —y
* - - ' ' a s
»J c.o. M»ra»ungee» Ui
3 do. Check Stripes de
I do. Guzzie th
I box Drapers C<
7 do. Umbrellas in
1$ lpipe« fineft particular Madeira Wine, of "
th» vintag-*795.
MORDECAI LEWIS. ;;
December j. 3 aw 4 w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Copt. HASTiE,/rom Boufdeaux ;
Claret in Cases bf a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wii.e in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcets of 12 bottles each, P'
.White aud coloured Kid Gloves, "
do. do. Silk do. th
A f»vv pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy, C
For Sale by 'ft
JAMES I ATIMF.R,>n. H
71, South Wharvss. tl
Who has also for Salt* rl
- A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine. r
Dec. ?. dlvv *'
W A N T E D ) 7<
* PARCEL trig;
Scantling and other Lumber, p
Suitable for Building ;
Alfb-a quantity of Stone'& Bricks,
1 am to enter into contrails for the a
torve articles—aVeafonable time may:,be allowed j
so- p»rmp.*lm»rT*aKrf'cjth fiiall be paid either i
in advance, or >ipon their delivery, as may be a
gretfd on.—Apply to the Subscriber, Houle.-Car- '
Lombard-ftreet, No. 2. *
John Crean.
flecember 19. d6t.
THE AMERICAN LADIES' j
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798. 1
JUST PUBLISHED J
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH, «
No, 17, fout.b lecond-ftreet—-containing
AN elegant Frontifpieee of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and his Family, in the jcaftle of Olmuts,
•with an illustration ; being an account of the princi
nal events in the public lite of the Marquis, with a J
ficetch of the fuffmngs of himfelf and his unfortunate I
family. A complete Almanack— 104 ruled pages .
for memorandums, observations, &c. alfo,for account
of monie! paid and received for every day in the year _ j _
—-a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends—Lift of births, dea'.hs, &c new
fountry dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
also,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798 —containing an Almanack; 104 ruled pages «
for memorandums and cash account ; Duties payable t
on goids imported into the United States. Custom- jj
house fees, &c: stamp duties, to take place' after the t
3 iftDec<mber;a lift of the post towns andcrofs-roads
in the United States; a variety of ufeful tables, and
nher
•' \v. Y. BIRCH, constantly keeps for sale, a general
assortment of Merchant's account Books, and other j.
flat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
size , and ruled.to any pattern. -
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
Weft-Indies. £
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, English
4 nd American. Dec. 27 —* jt.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiiher, •
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.§13, corner of Arch and Front Greets, I
HArE FOR SALE, J
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, aflorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels *
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto 1
Ditto Popdicherry and Madrafs ditto (
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chills bell Hyson T#a 1
Alfo —1500 boxes bed London Window Glass, 1
from Bby6,to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glaf3 -
Ware, aflorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
November 98. .^awtf
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. ne Waljiufcfireet,
INFORMS those who wish to rocur to the only
means of becoming petfe& in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1150 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru>slion, or plea
fu«i. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be fefcn at every book-feller's
in town.
n. B. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanish Languages, executea with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim rwv. 15.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies-.
MRS. GROOMRRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence is
Philadelphia; and assures her friends and. the
public, so far from intending to decline her
i'chbol, Ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the mere convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particultrly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jiml'rf
Thefituation is perfefUjrhealthy ; andmade
more agreeableby an garden and lot
of ground adjoining tfre hnufe.
~Houfe and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
■with the Lot op which it is ere&ed, fitnated
*bout th? middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The hetifc i* forty two
feet front, and in neat order The lot contains
one acre, and is one hendred feet on the main
ftreit,' and extends with the fame breadth tubark
ftrcet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fcpa*ated from the former by back llreet.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er maychufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrance!, and an indisputable title giveaf
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William fiurnes, reftdiitg In Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will lliew the fame, or nf
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, n». 144, Market-ftrset.
December a,
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. .?», Second firaet, the corner of Chefnu; street, ' |
REPORT of the Committee of the House o!
Repr«Fent»tivcs«f the UftitaAittt.i, " on
a ini report Artxlfl of I.np- ichment
agJnft BLOUNT, a Se.iator of tbt o'<
tfoitod States, impeached of hi£h crimes and.
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolu'ion of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said y.
Committee to fit during the recess «f Congress, and
inflruiiing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to discover th': whole nature and extent r
" of the offence whereof tbe laid Wrtliam Blount X
" (lands impeaches, and who are the parties and
" affociatestherein." 'St
Printed by order of tbe House of ReprefentaU-ves. da
December to. % O;
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe&s to his Frierids, and the r"
Public in general, informs them that he has opened
an Office, at his house, No. 88, Spruce street, for
the purpose of tranCaSing business in the line of
Commission and Agency, celleiSitig rents and out-
(landing tlaims in any part of the United latafes.— ,
He fiattefs himfelf, that from his long residence in
this Auntiy and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
niay please to fonfide to him the management oi
any of their concerns. '
N - B. Security given where required. 1
I tth 1110 t4 3tawtf
Landing this d;-iy,
From on board tht schooner Two Friends, Dan*
131 Crawley, Mafler,
Jamaica RUM,
iz pipes ) J 1
i , F ®*' c_3 O t
George Latimer o Son. r
j uo-jember 9.
Imported inthelhip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewell, Matter,
From Bfiurdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. xi. Walnut Street. n
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc witre, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
' Sherry Wine in .pipes and quarter calks
1 Rota do. do.
: Pimento in bags -
1 4000 bushels Liverpool fait. *
Aug. 24. tut&stf
; DANCING SCHOOL. h
0
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his s
most refpe.ilful compliments to his form- {
* *r employers and the citizens in general, aad re
: turns his most grateful thanks, for the yery
" bountiful encourageineut he has expetienced for
: these twenty-five years pad, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now 1
. -opes, at hi»
1 Elegant Ball Room,
' in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
' Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
. for young ladies, and 6in the evening for yo\»ng
gentlemen.
, 'Dec. 8. . aawtf.
- Canal Lottery—No. 11.
j TT 7*l LL commence drawing Monday, the zoth
VV inft. Tickets for Bale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars y at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South'Second-ftreet—
-1 Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tan
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- (
ing and examining in these, the City of
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinefa of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
5 difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
a' Lands, Houses, &c. will be duly attended
r by Wm. BLACKBURN.
novembcr 15 • §
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends 1
and the public, that they have removed their
Here to No. 54. Stutb Front Jtrict. next d«or so Ed
y ward Fox's Auilion Room, where they have at
i. this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many »f which are just imported in th« Clothier,
'* William Penn, &0. &c.
', c Otfl. ty. . «
s NOW LANDING, ~
At South-street Wharf,
c * The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been felefled)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags
f- XO legurcs of old Arrack
c- Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
nt FOR S/ILB sr
PETER BLIGHT.
Ie Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jairtiica.
20® hhds. Jamaica and
er 170 do. do. Rum.
te november 23. <l6w
ir FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
ie A large quantity of Clocks and
ot Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, co?.fiiHng of Clock Movt
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass piniens
and ffrge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dia's,
c ' Springs, Hands, Glafl'es, Punice Stone, Emery,
c K6ttcr. Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
i y Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
j n november 3. fSctutf
■k To be Sold,
" The time of a Negro Boy,
e- About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
e- ,to serve ; he is an excellent house ft rvant, a6l»ve
fe andheahhy. Enquire of the Printer.
9. December a. <f2w
*r! Wanted, to Hire,
r. a I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
il the centre of the city—lor which a generous
rent will be g?ven; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term, Inquireof th« Printer.
Otf. 17. eotf
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF VENNSYI.V \NIA.
"I 'HK Stockholder* rre hireby - orlfi-.d. that M
A EkAlon fur let*? '.<r •;
■ one y-Jt, vrill t*e hefci M'flt" or>rrty*ny*j OtficS, D'a
Monday, the eighth day of January tSixt, at 11 [,ac
o'clock. ftrt
SAM. W. FISHER, ttfp.
Decern tor .4" th J
Office of Insurance Company , u ,'
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA- br j
IN cotifecjucnce of an application from a number |j e f
of Proprietors «f Stock, made agreeably to the an(
a-ft of incorporation, a general meeting of the j—
'Stockholders is particularly requested on Wedncf
day, the id January next, at 11 o'clock, at the
Office of the Company —■
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December a 6. dt3dj apf
; Insurance Company of North 0 f
America. r,'
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
stated meeting of the Company will be held at
t their office on the ninth day of January next (be
ing the second Tuesday in the month) for tlie Elec
tion of twenty-five Directors for the enfaing year,
f EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&mt9thT
PhiladelphiaanfiLancafterTura
pike Company.
THE Stockholder* are hereby notified, that th*
annual "Ele&ioft x for Officers for the enfuinjj
year,will bcjield at th(fComparty's Office in Phila- —■
dflphia» on the second La January next, at
1(5 o'clock, a. m. "Wm. GGVF.TT, Sec'ry.
tk C
pany. .
5 THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that aaj j-
Ekilion of Officers for the eniuing year, will be u '
held at the Coaipany's office, no. 53, north Fourth
' llrect, on Wednesday, the toth day of January
next, at II o'clock. ??
By order at the Board, * 1
f SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December 16 eodtiothj
Tin Plates, h
' \ FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, sear Fifth ftr.eet.
December 28- "y 1 w
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber hi? a large, convenient two
flory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New- Jerfty, which he wilhes to
' s SELL. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
flreet, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
,r Lots in Walhiugton City,
1- Contiguous to the Capitol and to tbe principal 1
v harbour. t
December 29. eo7t
FOK &AL$,
d By JOHN MILLER, ;un. Co. _
g No. 8, Chtlnut-ftreet,
g One hundred and eighty bales a
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baltas Sannas
h Ggzzenahs TandaCoffaes \
't Guazif» Emertics
y Blue Cloths Calicoes -
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs I
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
'• manufa&urcs of Patna.
!' December 1. 5 11
t JUST RECEIVED, p
ic (via New-Vork) a
AKD NOW OPENING, B? li
George Dobson,
No. %j, feuth Third flreet,
An extensive and general aflbrtment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
,j s Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, affur
;r Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted colours
j_ white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, * and
at Nuns Thraad no. 6to Thsfoad Tajies
e f 40, regularly sfforted White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Blaek ind coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
lr , Cotoured do. Sattin and figured do,
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lad L
_ Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon SattiWi
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. de. Ribbands Scotch do.
. Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated .
I, Black brulh Feathers * Buttons
And a compleat aflfortment of Geods, suitable
h e to the prclent and approaching fealon, at reduced
prices. Dec. 6. dtf
Fresh Raisins.
1
A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing t
at Chefnut flreet wharf, from thefloopYa- 1
rico, capt. Halkell, confining of Kegs, Boxes and <
Jars. A few Jars ps excellent Grapes, and facls
of foft (belled Almonds. Apply to the Mailer 1
on board, or to i
"Jos. Anthony CS 5 Co.
December 19 §<t
Philip Nicklin Co. •>
HAVE fOR SALE,
j' At their Stokes on Walput street Wharf,
" whiteandbrown
'' s > %s hhds. Jamaica do. J
rC ~ 3000 pieces of broad Nankeens (
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefis t
• 5 ' Quicksilver in tubs
r X' Madeira Wine in pipes and hojfiieads
a " Tencriffe Wine in pipes
tc * Old led Port Wujc iuhog£beads
Sail Canvass, alloited, No. I to 8 {
8 cases of Manchelfcr Goods, consisting of Dimities, t
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c. (
100 crabes Queens' Ware, assorted
Nai)s, aborted
ret Black quart Bottles
[ v; . Yellow Oc[c in caiks
A quHntity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c. c
100 quarter calks Gun Powder j
74<v have alfa ftr S ALE or CHARTER, ,
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a .
:ar good vessel, and completely fitted.
»us The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar- '
on rels, may be ready for fra in a few d^ys.
The whole of the above vcflels to be seen at
Walnut flreet Wharf. § tnv IC.
1 1 —'
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX ro* SPINNING, J
r be gfven out every
} day morn 1 rig, between the hours of to tod 12 — P ar
[ back of 110.52, leuth tifrhilrset, ahove Spruce
ftreet. codiw ]
All Perlons
r Having any demands aga<nft the Estate of the A
late Captain George-Irwin, Sre reqHtfted to L.
bring in tbeir accounu pioperly attelled. on or floi
r before the firft day of January next ensuing On
e and those who are indebted to laid eft«te are so tov
f licited to malce 'immediate payment to 'he
3 A UAH IRWIN, AdminiUratrix.
e no-v. tq 1797. §
Subfcribar intends to make e i e]
application for the lenewal of a Certificate ol a Share 1
in the Bant, of the United States, Handing in the natne yj
of A. B. No.£o04, dated July n, *797. the fame n
having been lolt GRAHAM.
Richmond, DtcV.l4 ncr
' ROSS ts 1 J
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, ColTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT I'QN
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boles
Jamaica, |\
St. Vincents, > RttM.
and Btngal j °
300 calks RICE, rod
£ A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
5 oa. 27. 70
lt Chocolate and jMuitard,
6f a superior qtiilitv manufafltirrd, eai
~ INGER and Pepper, gtounrl ; fhelied or ot )
Vj pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine, on
I'uitaUe for exportation or home coHfumption.
', e Tbe highefl. ptice given for Mustard-Seed. pa
.! Also for fate, A quantity of Bocking and in
1 common Baizes, a variety of colors; » bale of of
Fuflians, Shawls, Sec, for sale by th
JOHN HAWORTH, N.
No. 98, south Front-street. .
Noiii 27. m.&th.t.ij.
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for p,
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dor.ns.
£. Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mufllns
0 _ Gillis Romall Bandannoes
, e _ Nillas & PenCafoes Chafla Romals
( Blue cloth " Hair ribbon
MullMullhankerchicfs Paleippores
. Patna do. Banares Opium
Lellbr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November »7 tuth«4W
>al To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET, fe
WJTH or without Board—at No. 114, corner tc
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. OA. 27. —dtf a|
NOTICE. , d e
h
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent- c
Jc td, from late unavoidable tircumftances from K
obtaining their Cettificates, agreeable to former p
notice. The Trustees now inform them, th«y a
| are ready taiflue the fame to those who may ap- I
ply within sixty days, at Na. 8 Chefnut Street, I
and those who do not, will be conCdcrcd as re-;
linquiljiing their claim on tjie Aggregate Fund'
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT, ; 1
THCMAS W. FRANCIS, j 11
c JOHN MILLER, JUN. *
ot JOHN ASHLEY, j 1
JACOB BAKER. J
December 15. dftct ;
ar - For Sale by the Subscribers, 0
in( j Prime Rice in wMe and half tierces i 0
Baurdeaux Brandy '
Teneriffe lYiue c
:hi- Molajjes a
Georgia end Carolina Indigo t
[, Ravens Duck and one bogjhead of faiit
I2d brtifhes.
* N. is" y. Frazer. <
No. ss,Santh Frortt Street.
ited 1- dlm
Ut MUSIC. 1
J. L. LENZ, I
„ Teacher ot Vocal and instrumental Music,
RETURNS hisfmcere thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he*received a very
liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
iipg ty, and rcfpeilfully informs his friends and the pub-
Ya- lie generally, that, in consequence of the request I
ifid of fume of his friends, he has opened a Musical f
iclts School at his houfa in Spruce Street No 174, where c
ller he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.—
He deems it unnectlTary to enlargi upon tbo ad ,
vantages the learner will d«rive from an inftiiuti-
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
_ and zeal are much excited in an affsmbly, where j
jSumlers are in pursuit of the fame object. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
tbe different fcxes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to .
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. -Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit houfc, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *lweod
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—latest
.iis, edition, to be fold by JOHN ORVIROD, no. 41,
&c. Chtffnut- street. Doc. 16— d
STOLEN ;
Out of the fubferibet's office a large blue ,
&c. cloth cloak, half worn. The inside of the Oollar i
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a Giver hook
'• a and chain as a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid for restoring it.
>ar ' WILLIAM MEREDITH
n at No. 111 Soath 3d Street.
Dec. 16. dtw
TO BE LET,
And fofTtflioo given the ill January,
TheHoule No, 107, Arch-ttreet,
a... - JSfV tofner of Tliiri otg>t.-=n;For further
. particiUrs, enquire asabovs, or at No. 83, Viae
„ Street.
December J 7 d'f
To be fold,
c A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SBAT, conlain
j Zi. *j>g 6 acres and 40 perches, wyth a neat vwe
r dory fctick Haufe and Kitchen thereon, an apple
X Orchard, ice. situate ou the Iri(h trail lane, in the
0 townfcip of Moyaracnfing, about one mile-from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars Will
be made known Upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upoivthis place, for tafle and
- elegance, ttand unrivalled.
e December 1. - <itf
1 Hyi'on and Young Hyson Tea-
A fe* chells of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
* ncr of Second an/i J'int ftretts.
.fiiccembef t6. eotf
Seleft Subscription Balls.
I NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM,
S juth Fourth street, between Chefnut aui Walnut
Ortets.
MR. FRANCIS refpetH fully irform; the Cubfcri
bers to the abov.- Bal!«l that the liift will Ve
011 Tntfday, the id of January, 179?.
a few names to the SJefl Subscription Palji
will be admitted, by explication to Mr. Francis, sc.
70, nor Eighth (Ue<!.
Terros ol fubfiriptiot*—each subscriber to pay
Fiw! Dollars, w'bjfh enjSkjfj likn to a OtMlMitu'i
; Ticket, and c-rut ol ajmiflion for two Ladies, to
each of the fofir Balls—The Balls to be held every
"" other Tutl"d*y.
r > The nun)be." of fubferibers tq be limited to forty.
; Sublcribers' Tickets will be ready for delivery
s, on Saturday the 30th inft.
i)» Mr. Francis's days of teaching for his young
pupils sre Thntfdays and Satuidays from 3 o'clock
id in the altercoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for those
jf of a more advanced age. Private twition either St
the AfTembly Room, or at his Hcufe No. ?0
North Eight Street.
N.B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's
focond Pra&tfing Ball.
Dec. 16. dtadj
e NOW LANDING, '
or From on board the (hip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
ns Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefxdes iff Co.
No. 138, Macket-llrcet.
Also, on band,
Bourdeaux Brandy is pipes
\ Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 29. 1 §
Englilh Grammar,
The fennd edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different classes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
servations for assisting the more advanced (ludents
,tr to write with perfpicuky and accuracy,
° n By LINDLEY MURRAY.
ale ,i j $ 3 publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeffions in the Title. Iheappen
dix contains some of the best rules for writing c-
Jegantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled to
have seen."
?'j Monthly Review, "July 1796.
" Thi»<Grammar is', 911 many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
n " carefully and judicioully fele<sled ; its arjangement
,rn is diilirnit and well adapted to the purpose of in
ltr P.ruiSion and its exprelUon is simple, perlpicuous
*y ; and accurate, Acc."
'P"i See the char alter at large in the Analytical
et v Review, J"fy 1796.
Englilh Exercises,
Adaptfid to the Grammar lately published by
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
; the parts of speech, inftancesof falfe orthography,
violationsof the rules of syntax, defeits in punc
tuation, and violations of the tules refpedling
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of schools.
; "We have been much pleased with the perusal
of these Exercises. They occupy with diflinguifh
; ed excellence a mod important place in the fcicncc
of the English language; and as such, w»* can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corretSlnefs and preciCon in their nativa
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are fbrfale at Joseph & James
CkuKSHANKS book (lore, No. 87, Market llrett.
December I. 3tawiw.
_ For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(h, or good notes at sixty ominecydayi,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain")
ftiipes, and Checks j
ind do. do. Tamboured V 10
ery do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & j Packages,
ci- gentlemen's neck do. j
ub- Jaconet chintz mt.flin for home and the Weft
left India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
ical for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
sre chintz (hawls.
• The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricks and an
l f tl " aflTorttnent of muslin by the piece.
lon The whole of the above being a conlignment
from the manufacturers in Britain
the To seen at Blackburn's
j;. Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
ito Nov. 6. tawtf.
This Day is Publilhed,
rti- BY Metr - Carey, Campbell, Ric ani the
oihei BookfcJlers, r'
Price Onrf Dollar an«J twenty-five ccots,
Ekgant'y printed on il'ovr paper, and Hot.
> • " . prejjed,
ler- By Jshn Thonipfon,
ted A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
a l ' The Constitutions
Of the several States with esch other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
~ the prominent features of eaeh Conftituticn, and
II clafiing together their most impertant provisions,
liar under the several heads of adminiftratioo ; with
tly Notes andObfervatiocs.
jok By WILLIAM SMITH,
ard Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrtfs of the
United States'.
Dedicated to th« People of the United States,
N.B. A few Copi«s printed on An infetitr pi
ll W per, at 3-4'hsof a d«l'iar.Mar thai'B Sales.
United S'-tt**, )
Pennfyl'-anii D» JT.
BY wnt of Fieri outofi>e^
DiOiiff Court of the United Stairs for the H nn-.
fyKania Dntridl, to me directed ,will -be to
* Publ'C Sale, on Toefday thr lecond d*y of
]ar.ua*v next, at feveu o'elock in the
at the' Merchant** Coffee House in Soeond \u
thecity of Phiteielphia, the following trails and par
cels of vacant add unimproved lands fi'uate4 \n <he
County of Bedford in the State of Pennsylvania to
wit : one traft of land called Rulh fnuated
on the waters of Liclicu cr& k, in Ketfafl tovtnlhip .
io the fame county, boutiried By lands of Jacob* Bore*
man, WUliam Delhong, "R«#iph Brooks and others,
containing rhrc hundred and n;nety-o» e Kr.», |«d,
one hur.died and two perebfs
lowance. " \
Gue traft called N'ewland, (ltuated in BeKaft town
ship. in the fame county, bounded by lands df George
.Sipes, M? n o Djk hangs, Nras William Diichang,
John Ruffle and others, containing four hundred and
four sjcrei and three quarters, and the ulual allowances.-
One traft callVd Hickory Ridge, fuuaied on the
' wi»cn of Tonolaway creek, in BelfaA towathip in
the fame county, hounded by lands of £lias Rutman,
Peter Srreights. George Boremin, Monci DeAio<»gs
and others, containing four hundred and forty-four
icfea and ninety-fix peaenrs and aliowauee,
And one tra£ called Gold Mine, fitaate on the
waters of Tonolaway cteek in Belfaft townfhio, in
the fame county, bounded by lands of Will iam Woods
PeU'rSwarizler, J jhn M*Lett, Jacob Boreman, Tho
mas Logan and othc rs, containing three hundred and
fetent v acres and fiftv-fix perches and allowancea, Sec.
The foregoing tia£ls are all patented, lei and
taken in ejtecbtior. as the property of Philip Reilly,
tod to be fold by
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Maifhal's Sales.
United States, ) ~
Vennlylvama EXiftrift,
BY virtue of a writ of fieri farias iflued out »f
the diltri<a court of the United Stafs for
the diflriil, to'me direfled, will
be exposed to Ule, on Tuefdav the second
day of Jauuary next, at seven o'clock in the
tveuing, at tne Merchants' Coffee-houfe in
J'eeond-flreet, in tbe city of Phi!adell>hia| the
following trails or parcels ps vacant and unim
proved LAND, situated in the county of So
merset, lite county of Bedford,, in tbe state of
Pennsylvania, viz.—
A certain trafl-, surveyed in the name of Ma
ry Eafleman, centaining three hundred & eighty
acres and the usual allowance Icc. situated on the
waters of Stsny creek, in Stoney creek townlhip,
and bounded by lands furveyectfor fofeph Kitk
bride, John Koadi, Charles Reinfhaw, and o
thers. 1
A certain other trafl, farveyed iB the name
us Giorfie Campbell, containing four hundred
and ten acres and allowance &c. situated on the
weft fide of Alleghany Mountain, oh the waters
of Stony creek, in Stony creek towt>(hip, for
merly Bedford, now Somerset county,and bound
ed by lands surveyed for/ofeph Kirkbrida, Ma
ry Eafleman, J«ba Rowfer and others.
A certain other trad, lurveyed in the name of
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hundred and
fourteen a:re6 & three quarters & allowance,&c.
i«tua:ed on the waters of Clear run, abranehof
Stony creek, in Stony creek towufhig, in the
county »forefaid,anU bounded by lands frfrveyed
for William Gaftack, Wiliiam Skinner, George
Campbell and i'there.
A certain other traiJl, surveyed in the name of
Richard Wiiljams, coiitaining three hundred
and ninely-feven acres and a half and allowance 1
<cc. 'iwatert on the llate road and oldroad lead
ing from Bedford to Pi'tfburg, and or. the wa
ters of Stony creek, in Stony creek townfliip, in
the county ifbrefaid, attd bounded by lands fur
veyed f or Jacob Stotlcr, William Gotamy, Sa
muel Adams others. 1
' A certain ether trait, surveyed in the name i
of Williarrf Gattack, containing four hundred 1
and one acres and a half and allowance &c. situ- <
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in i
Stony creek townihip, in the county aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Wil
liams, William Skinner, Benjamin Lodge and
others.
A certain oaher trifl, surveyed in fh« name
of Robert Williams, containing four hundred
and two acres and a half and allowance &c. situ%
at«d qn the waters of Stony creek, in Sto»y '
creek "t-owr.lbip, in the county aforefaid, and '
bounded by lands jfurveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard Williams, Samuel Adams and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
. of James Johr.fon, containing three hundred
and ninety-five acreo and allowance &c. situated
on bcth fides of the state road, on the waters of
Stony creek, in Stony creek townfliip, in the '
comity aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Johnson, Joseph Engle, Conrad r
Weaver and others. ~ I
A certain other tra<S, surveyed in the name
of Alexander Johnson, containing four hundred e
and five acres aiid a half and allowance &c. situ- '
it<4 on the waters oL Stojiy creek, in Stony
creek townlhip, in the county aforefaid,* and
bounded by la.ids surveyed for John Lombard,
Jam» Johnson, Joseph Engle and others.
A certain other tradl, surveyed in the name t
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and a
eight acrts and three quarters and allowance }
&c. situated on the waters of Stony creek, in 1
Stony ereek townlhip, in the couuty aforefaid, e
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Tuck- J
nefy, John Shoemaker, Mathias riaker and c
•thers. v
A certain ottier trafl, surveyed in the name i
of William Campbell, containing feur hundred I
and feveqteen .acres and a quarter and allow
ance Bcc. fituattd adjoining j Jones's road, and a 1
on a Urge run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
otherwise called the North Fork of Turkey-foot, '
in Millford townfliip, in the county aforefaid, '
and bonnded by lands surveyed for Joseph Bark- 0
er, Mathias Gr>flirt, Benjamin Ruble and others. ~
A certain pther trafi surveyed in the name of t
Betsey Gaibrcath,containing three hundred &nina- f
ty nine acres and one quarter and allowance, &c. a
situated on Roaring run, a small branch of J.aurel u
Hill creek, in Milford townlhip, in the ceunty a- e
forefaid, and bonndad by lands surveyed for John »
Piivsr, M.ifes Parker, ]»f»ph Barker and others. r
A certain other trail surveyed in the name ol ?
Jofrph Barker, containing four hundred and three 1
aires and ooe quarter and allowance, &c. situated "
on a large run emptying info Laurel Hill creek a- F
bout a mite above ih» falls, in Milford townfliip, in 1
the county nforefaid, »ud bounded V Ijnrls far- 1
veyed for Mathtttt Qoffett, Williicl C4Spttel{,"Bet- i
ley Galhreath acd others.
A certain other traft surveyed ia the naoie of
James CitTna, containing four hnndred and one a
cres and one quarter and ail<>«vance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of i.atir«l HID creek,
in Milfard townlhip, ipthe county aforefaid, and n
bounded by lands surveyed for R btrt M'Conncl, S
John Hendall, Benjamin Bankfan and others, v
A certain other trafl surveyed in (he name of J
Mary Galhreath, con ainirg lour hundred anl L
one acres and allowance, icc. situated en Jones's d
mi l rim, a branch of Laurel Hill creek, in Mil- p
ford townlhip, in the county afortfrid, and lioun, c
ded by lands surveyed (or Gabriel Haider, James
CifTna, James Campbell and others.
A certain othtr tract surveyed in the name of f
James Campbell, containing four hundred and j
twenty three acres and one quarter and allowance,
Ac. situated on the head waters of Shaver's Mill 1
inn, and on both fides of themiddle road, part in
Milicrd and part iu Somerset towclhipin the cvun-
iy *f«treCvi, aiiu bo:!ns*&}r Umb fo;veyetl f-r
Mcmimger, ¥tilifa Ai John Scott
ar>4 lathers. v *.
A certcin other rra»st farrejci Sn the name of
John_.Sco:t, containing fur hundred and three a
cres and three quarters and allowance, See. sitUat
ed on the head waters of shaver's mill run, m So
merset tovyufliip and Somcrfci county, )ate Milford
cownihip, Bedford county, aud !)omided by lands,
furwytd" for -Wiltiam bh'saff, James Campbail,
WiliidTi Soott audxrthen,.
A trad,'furveyed in the name of
William Scott, containing tlm'e t>undrrd and eigh
ty-nine and one quarter, and allowance, &c.
(itu&ted on a large /in,; emptying into Laurel Hill
Creek, abo.Ut artiiie above the middle road, i? S*»' t
mctf?t townfliip,, Sonif rfct late Miilford
towu!hip, Bcuk rd county, ami bounded by faudfc.
furvey-d f6r lu&c'la Gal rc.uh, William Coates,
Robert Martin, an J other*.
A cerlair. oihet fuivevcd in the name of Sa
muel Hagerinan. containing fout hundred and: thlr*
teen acres and allowance, &c. si uated on- both fides
of the Stato road on the waters oi Stony creek in Stos
ny creek townlhip, formerly Bedford, now Somer
ff-i county.and bounded by laods fuiveytd for Samuel
Hiliega?, Cornelius Barns, Jacob Sfotter and others
A certain other trad fuTveyed in the r.ameot Fran
cis Walker, containing three hundred and ninety-two
acres and a half and allowance, See. fiiualed on the
waters of the North Fork of Turkey Foot, near «Me
line be tween Milford and Turkey Foot rownJHtps,
lk>meilet county late B dford county and bounded by
lands surveyed for JefTe Brooke. John Brooke, William
Biddlc and Peter F< otman and others.
The foregoing lands are held by warrant of Survey,
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Philip Reilly.
William Nichols, (Marjhal.
December 23 dt°J;
Nicklin Ssf Griffith,
At their Store on Walcrut StreetVv bar£—
HAV£ FOR SALE,
58-hhdi. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and Jihds.
TenerifTe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of cliefis
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges fuitihle far the Weft India market
Nails aflbrted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in lihds.and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, exported round
at soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanifli Brown "j
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown ! p .
Patent white f raints *
White lead
Red lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw : ne
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin Co.
is now changed to
Nicklin l? Griffith.
January I.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the3tft
Dec. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-bouse in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fciut'ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ift 170 S.
Bank of North America,
January I, 1798.
AT a meeting of the Directors this day, a divi
dend of fix per cent, was declared for the lad
half year, which will be paid to the Stocknolders or
their reprefcutativcs at any time after the iotb inft.
By order of the board;
JOHN NIXON, Present.
dtlOth
Bank of the United States,
January lji, 1798.
rHE Direflors have this day declared a dividend
of sixteen dollars on each (hare for the last fix
months, —A lfo an additional dividend of four dol
lars on each (hare, arifingfrom surplus profits. >i
Which dividends will be paid to the Stockhold
ers, or their legal representatives, after the 10th
nft. d6t
SalifburyEftate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contraQ his busi
ness, offers this Estate (or sale, on moderate
terms. On i r are one BlaJl and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also t good Forge, all
in perse& repair, at are all the Water works connc£l
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou.' two thouiand ac\et
of Land, one half of whfoh is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufatfured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
Superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixtynine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fnu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&urc, and a place of aims lying' in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from fcveral land
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result fr&m a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural p >nd, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of Qther
ufeful purposes. The purchafcr can beaccomipodat
! cd with all the ftoek and utenfila, and have peflelTnm
on or-before the firft of June next, and preparotion
may*be made in the mean time for going into Blafl im
mediately therealler, tor every pa»t will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, dec. &e. For
term-., apply tc Mr. lofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, li;q. one of the Reprefentativcs
in Co. grefs for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
ihepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t • 3«wtf
N OTIC E.
\I.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that tire f"bfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stockinthe Bank of the Uuifcd States—He for
warded them under cover of a letter addressed ,«o
fohu Anfley.of l.ondon, by the (hip Bacchus, c;-pt.
(Jeorge, which left this port in June la:Vfor Lon
don. But that ship having been captured on her
paflage and fen.to France, the above letter acd ni
cloTurcs have failed in their destination.
Three ccrtificatei, via
Nos. 263J5, 26326, 26327, each for
four lhares, dated January ift, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
f, - ,
%\}t <sa sette.
PIIILA DELPHI A,
TUfcSDAY EVENING, JAUUART 1.
F»r tie Gazette of the United States.
Riflectiohs on Monroe's view.
N "- L
I haife perukd the publication of Mr.
Monroe, latemifttflef-W the French repub
lic, which he ha»s*iwufej»» proper to call " a
view of the coaduftofthe esecutrv# oa the
foreign affaiwpf th^rUniUrdStates, connec
ted with the million of the French republic
during the years 1794, 5« 6," "mid which he
has illustrated with his inftruftions and cor
respondence and other autheittic documents.
Having been f'iperceded by the appoint
ment of Mr. Pinckney, the objefts of the
ex-minister are avowed to be, not merely to
vindicate himftlf, or to retrieve hit reputa
tation, from the unfavourable impressions
which his difmifSen from office may have ex
cited, and to fix acenfureon the late Presi
dent for this aft, but principally to prove
that the present misunderstanding between'
the United Sta»e» and the. French republic,
and a rupture, should it happen, are attribu
table not to the direftory of the French re
public but to our executive, whose policy
during the whole of the European
war is pronounced by him to be inju
rious to our national charafterand interests,
" short lighted and bad." This last is a ve
ry serious charge, but is not now for the
firft time brought forward. It has been the
couftant purfui't of the French fa&ion in
our country to make this impreffioa on the
public mind and in every shape it ha* been
at one time or :anotber attempted—That
Mr. Morwoe wbi»f# policy relative to France
I am ready (0 admit has been at variance
with the "policy of the late President from
the commencement of hit ministerial func
tions to the time ps his recall j that Mr.
Monroe, who it is n«t denied has been as
true to his party as he could have been
wished, should return to his native country,
and endeavour to revive tlm antiquated
complaint, has exited in me no surprize.
Being discarded by the administration, no
alternative remained but to endeavour to
stand well with the opposition from whom
he had never separated during the whole of
bis public employment. It will net be pre
tended to have been possible for him to have
served with fidelity the executive and the
opposition faftion at the fame time; and
which he served, the documents fully evince.
A man eannotat.thefame time ferveGodand
mammon. This was in which
the late minifterto Francewas placed,and the
obvious couric which he should have taken to
have difpcltcdthe difficulties waieither to have
resigned his office and adhered to the policy
of his party, or to have abandoned his par
ty and sincerely joined his endeavours in pro
moting the. policy of the executive. He
did neither; but remaining in office hit views
were directed npt by the policy of neutral
ity and independeace, with regard to all na
tions which governed, the president, but by
a policy which should place our government
under the care and proteftion of Fraaee ; a
policy that would have confided to the ge
nerosity of France our claims upon Great-
Britain and Spain ; a policy that degraded
this country in the eyes of that republic, as
it tended to put the very being of the natiom
under its power and to reduce us to the hum
ble andhelplefs condition of Batavia. This
is the view which the documents published
by Mr. Monroe-have presented to my mind,
to fom« of which I shall particularly refer in
the course of the observations which they
have suggested ; from which it will appear
that Mr. Monroe ought to have sooner been
recalled, and that it was the invariable and
sincere endeavour of the executive to pre
serve the best possible terms with France
confident with the peace and independence
of this count/y. < t
But let me firft enquire upon what prin
ciple ap honourable dif
cnarge of his duty, a fuperceded minister is
warranted of his own accord in expoling to
the foreign fiat (tan from whence he has been
removed, and to the world, the confidential
communications of his own nation ? Is it
not a violation of the faith upon which he
undertook his office ? If upon the dismission
of every public minister one consequence is
to be, the publication of the most private
ttanfaftions of the nation, the valuable pur
poses of diplomatic agents for preserving
the peace and promoting the good of fosie
ky cannot be attained. To attain thefc,
each nation will disclose to its own agents
the means which it deems the most advifea
ble to be nfed relative to its own interests,
and for one nation to ptiblifh these while
; all the other nations conceal their own, must
j place the former upon an unequal and dis
advantageous ground with them all. When
a public officer quits 3n office,whether volun
tarily or involuntarily, he is not at the fame
time discharged from all the obligations
which had been imposed oir him in the
course of official duty. If fa£ls or publie
documents became.known to him by reason
ofhis office, in confidence that they should
remain imdifclofed, hit obligations to secre
cy C9att*twfc ■■the feirie whether he is in or
out of office. Tki knowledge is communi
cated m the firfl inflance upon an implied
promise to ob r itr*e fetrecy until permission
shall be granted to divulge. No permission
was asked by Mr. Monroe to publish the
! confidentialeorrcfpundtnce between the Presi
dent of the United States and their minister
to France, and in doing this he appears to
me to have committed a breach of duty for
which he merits a more exemplary punifh
mcnt than the silent disapprobation of the
good and faithful.
What good at this juncture could the pub
lication of these private documents promote ?
From wfcalt motive hat the publication pro
ceeded ? Was it designed to aid or to em- j
barrafs those measures of peace and concilia- j
tion with tti£ tepublic, which ate j
now in execution- ? Whatever may hi v e
been the motive, I am happy in knowing"
that if an offence has been ca»nmittcd which
deserves to he punifhe;!, there is a contlitu
tional mode of obtaining justice to the U
nited States, and of deterring others from
finlilar misbehaviour. To the consideration
of the proper authorities, I (hall therefore
leave this illicit and unjuftifiable procedure.
SCIPIO.
Anecdote of It/rd ThurUnu-—Some years a
go, whet) this nobleman was Chancellor, a
young barrister (the firft time of his appear-,
ante. b<f«(e the placid'countenance of his lortj-j
fliip) addrefled the Court i.i tfufe words—
humbly move }4ur ordfliip in a caufe,'Smith:
against Jackfoo,' for a Commin to examine
witnesses." Our readers will, doubtlcfs,
perceive thai this uncommonly abaflied coun
sellor meant to fay Commission instead of com
mon. His Lord ship, "with the utmoil fang,
froid, a(ked if there were many witnesses,
the Barrister replied there were ; why then,
said his Lordship, take Salijbury Plain.
Latejl Foreign Intelligence.
[By Jamefon, in the ship Orono.ar
rived at Portsmouth, from Liverpool,
brought Liverpool papers to Oft. 23.]
LONDON, Oftober2i.
The following statement, relative to ad
miral Duncan's fleet, and his prizts, is the
mod correft that has yet appeared :
Every British ship that was iu the aftion
of the 11th inft. is fafe arrived, either at the
Nore or in Yarmouth Roads, excepting the
Ifis, of 5b guns ; but there are no appre
hensions for her fafety.
The Dutch admiral's ship is arrived at
Yarmouth. Five other Dutch Kne of bat
tleships ate also arrived at Yarmouth, and
two inHofeley bayii if .t-o-
The Dtlf; of 56 guns, has foundered.
The Munnikendam frigate., of 44 gnus
is also loft off the lilandef Walcheren, on
the coast of Holland, but all her crew are
saved.
A lieutenant of the Beaulieu frigate, and
20 of our feamien that had been put on
board her, are m2de prisoners.
The Formidable of 98 guns, is moored
off the Texel, with two or three other ship*
to watch that harbor.
Three Dutch line of battle ftiips are still
out, as only four have entered the Texel, of
those that ran away at the beginning of the
late aftion.
It is now said, and we hope the assertion
is not unfounded, that only three persons
were loft on board the Dels, the Dutch
prize which foundered in fight of the Eng
lish coast.
Admiral lord Duncan landed at Margate
yesterday morning, in good health and spir
its. He was received with the most heart
felt gratitude, and fct •fflhortly afterwards
forWalmer Castle, to dinner.
A fubfeription was opened" yesterday at
Lloyd's Coffee-houfej for the widows and
orphans of those who loft their lives in the
late aftion, and upwards of 600 guineas
fublcribed in two hours ; which, before ev
ening was increased to 1000.
Captain Burgc.fi,who commanded the Ar
dent, and was killed in the late aftion with
the Dutch fleet, was an old and experienc
ed officer, in the naval service. He was
brought up under the Admirals Barrington
and Rowley, and was wounded in an
aftion la ft war, in his Majesty's ship the
London. He led the Ardent, into aftion
in a very gallant and officer-like manner 5
and although his signal was mads twice to
engage, he did not think the Ardent close
enough, reserving his fire until he was fe
near that every shot struck the enemy. The
Ardtfqt, soon after, was engaged and sur
rounded by. 5 of the enemy's ships, among
the number was the Dutch Admiral de
Winter's ship. Captain Biirges was unfor
tunately killed when the Ardent was in this
fituatio'n. By his death the country has
loft a valuable officer, of great nautical
kuuwledge abilities, and frpm his rec
titude of" eonduft, beloved by his officers
and fhip'scompany.
Capt. Burges was fucceeJed in the com
mand by lieut. John Philips to whose intre
pidity and skill in fighting and manoeuvr
ing the ship, brought by her captain into
the severest brunt of the battle, the greatelV
praise is due. The admiral feeing her so
nnequally engaged, gallantly shot in to her
aflitlancc.
MILAN, Sept. 30.
Every thing it ready. The military dif
pofitioni, the necessary measures for afting
on the defenfive or offenlive, the contingents
of troops to be furnifhed by the different al
lied powers, an army of 80,000 effeftive
men newly equipped, refrefhed by a repose
offeveral months, enflamed by the remem
brance of its former triumphs, and impressed
with the firm affu ranee of once more conquer
ing its enemies if they Ihould again dare to
try the chance of war. _ A cavalry Well re
mounted arid equipped, the most formidable •
artillery, served by the most fkilTul engineers
and drawn by 6: 00 choice horses. The
ramparts of all the strong places covered
with cannop, ammunition and proviiion in j
abundance £ *U-il«e£ie4- by the geoife of
Buonaparte, wh/ch is always vigilant*.
What a presage of peace is this pi&ure, in
which nothing is exaggerated, and the de
tails of which afford expectations with re
fpeft to the future, as tatisfaftory to the
French Republic, as discouraging to the
Austrian power !
LONDON, Oft. 21.
Courier Office, 1 hree o'clock.
We flop the press to fay, that a Trench
flag of truce appeared off Dover this morn
ing at about 8 o'clock, and was fnppufed
to have a French courier on board.
Yesterday a report prevailed in this city,
jof the recommencement cf hostilities be
| tween the Emperor and the French Repub
lie; in cortfequence »f «rhiiel<*.tf>e ftm i* i ■
clined about one lulf per cent. vV<r
unable to trace the source of thii int-.-l*;-
genee.
mi —«p» "»»»■
CONGR E S s.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY JANUARY I.
A message was received fromj the Presi
dent the United States, inclosing a report
of the Secretary of State, founded upon the
refolutioi) of both Houses of the 2d of March
J>797» direfting the Pretident oi> the United
SuU-s to make enquiry of-rirc t>ia'csof Con
necticut, New-Jertey, Penufylvania, Mary
land, Virginia, Kentucky, Tcnneffee and
South Carolina, whether they had latified
the proposed amendments to the Conftituti
-911 of the United States, refpefting the fua
bijity of States; by which report, it appears
that information has been received from
Connedticat, Maryland and Virginia, that
they have ratified the said amendments ;
tint the States of Nevv-Jerfey and Peunfyl
varira have not ratified them ; that the State
of South Carolina had not yet determined
upon the queftien ; and that -no information
had yet bee* received from Kentucky and
Tenpeffee. The Secretary of State adds,
that not considering the latter as a State un
til it was formally admitted as fiich, he did
not transmit the proposition for their confed
eration until October last.—Ordered to lie
on the table. ,
Mr. Harper from the committae of Ways
and Mean«, to whom was referred the peti
tion of Georga Curwen Ward, made an un
favourable report u> the petitioner, which
was concurred in by the House.
Mr. Sprague moved that the petitions of
Jonathan Hafkill and Abraham. Watson,
invalid pensioners, (presented on Thtirfday
last) be referred to'the Committe of Claims.
—Agreed.
Mr. Kittera presented a petition from the
merchants and traders of this city, praying
that Congress would authorize the ereftion
of Piers in the Delaware at Cheftcr, stating,
that there wa3 a willingness, if such a meii
sure were adopted, in the owners of the pro
perty, upon which they were to be erefleel,
to cede the fee simple to the United States.
—Referred to the Committee of Commerce
and Manufactures.
Mr. J. Williams from the committee ap
pointed to report by bill or otherwise whe
ther any, and what amendments are riecef.
fary to the aft for establishing a uniform mi
litia throughout the United States, report
ed a bill to pro Tide for organising, arming
and disciplining the militia of the United
States, which was twice read, and committ
ed for Monday next. v
Mr. Dwight Foster from the committee
of claims, reported a bill for the relief of
Comfort Sands and others, which was twice
read, and committed for Friday.
Mr. Van Allen thought the government
for Tome time past-bad been at a greater ei
pence thin necefTary in paying, by means
of the commiflioners of loans, the interest
upon the Domestic Debt of the United
States. He thought the bufineft might be
equally as well done, at a.much less expence
by either contracting with the banks in the
different states, o,r authorising the collectors
of the revenue to pay it. In order to bring
the fubjrCt under the view of the house he
proposed a refolutioi) to the following effeCt:
" Resolved, that a committee be appoint
ed to enquire whether any, and if any, what
alterations are neceflary in the a& making
proviiion for the debt of the United States."
—Agreed, and a commi;tee of three ap
pointed.
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways
and means, to whom was referred the esti
mates of the Secretary of the Treasury, of
the Bth ult. of what would be neceflary
for the services of the year 1798, made a
report in part ; which stated \hat former
appropriations had proved deficient, and
that if a partial appropriation was not made
before the regular appropriations were gone
into, the public service might fuffer The
deficiencies were stated ?o be in the Quar
ter-Matter's and Indian. Departments, &c,
in the fubfiltence of the army, and also in
the appropriations for the naval fervicj.—
They proposed, however, to d«fer any ap
propriation for the latter objeft, until they
received statements on the fubjeft from the
proper department. The report also stated
that the Secretary of the Treasury had in
formed the committee, that two awards had-'
been made under the 6th art. of the Britilh
treaty against the United States, amount
ing to 24,921 dollars;, which became pay
able in Odtober last, but which had not yet
been paid for want of funds ; and that o
ther awards have been, or are soon expefted
to be maile for upwards of 27,000 dollars.
The committee, therefore,- propoff, that
the house grant 100, coo dollars for the de
ficiencies in tUe appropriations (exclusive
of the deficiency in the naval service) and
52,000 dollars to meet the awards under the
Britilh treaty. - Committed for to-morrow*
Mr. Harper, frorathecommittee to \Vhom
was referred a resolution proposing the ap
pointment of a committee to prepare and
report a bill fpr establishing an uniform fyf
temof Bankruptcy* made a repert contain
ing the reaions whjon induced the commit
tee to believe it expedient for the house to
adopt the refutation, -.The report having
been read a fccond. time, and
Mr. H. moving it U> be committed*
Mr. Coit said, hebelieved there was some
milfake in this bafinefs,-as though he was,
of the committee appointed to consider the
fubjeft, he hadr.ever heard of this report
before ; and hj? did not believe it had been
submitted to the committee.
Mr. Harper said it had not.'
Mr. Nicholas wished, then, tin report
might be re-coramitted. He was sot him.
felf much in favor of the committee's de
tailing the reasons uppo which they aCted,
3s he thought it fervt c\ to fweU their Jour-V nal and Printers' bill without' use ; but if
reasons were to be detailed, he wiflied they
might l>e the reasons ot the committee, and ,
not of the chairman. He was one of the
commute*:, and had heard nothing of this
report, before he had now heard it read.
Mr. Harper did not know why the gen
tlemap from Virginia had so ltrong an ob
jeftion to reafoni being given forcoadtift ;
if he did not chufe to guide his conduct by
rcafon, why objeft to other gentlemen be
ing indulged with this privilege ? As to the
manner of making reports by committees,
he believed it was ufudl, when the principle
of a report was fettled, to leave the'' man
ner of making it to the chairman. But
the
were not the reasons for the report, but to. j
the report itfelf, to they were alto
gether opposed. For his part, he could
fee no ground of objection to the report j
when tha committee determined to recom
mend the adoption of the resolution, he
thought it was more proper and more ref-j
peftful to the house to report the reasons
upon which their opinion was founded,
than "merely to give an opinion without sup
port ; and were these reasons, he asked, ne
ver to be presented, except every gentle
man on a committee agreed to th«m ? If
those the committee who
were in favor of the report would fay the
reasons now afiigned, were r.ot such as they
approved, he also would vote for a re-com
mittal ; but, if they were fatisfied wiih
them, he could fee no reason for recom
mitting the report, because it did not fatis
fy gentlemen opposed to the business alto
gether.
Mr. Nicholas said, if he had objefted to
thi> report because it did not contain his
own reasons, the gentleman from S. Caro
lina would have had some ground for what
he had advanced ; but this was not the cafe
—he objefted to it because it contained the
gentleman's jreajam % and not those of
the committee ; arid though as the gentle
man had stated, he was opposed to the re
port, yet he had a right to expeft to be con
sulted refpefting any reasons which were re
ported by that committee. He was not a
little surprised that the gentleman should
infill upon his right to assign rrafons for
that house, when he must recoiled upon
how many oecafions his reasons had failed of
producing Conviftion. He was ftire it was
not the intention of the committee to give
the gentleman power to pledge them to a
ny thing he might chufe to write ; and he
thought it was time to stop this mode of re
porting. The house exptfted committee*
would report fafts ; they did not expeft
their detailed reasons. This had always
been the course of business; and if it were
to be departed from, and reasons were to be
givea, they ought to be those of the commit
tee, and not those of its chairman only.
Mr. Coit said he was as willing as any
, gentleman to submit to the opinion of a ma
jority, but he was as uuwilling as any man'
to submit to any aft which was not the aft
qS a majority. He thought the gentleman
was mistaken, when he said it was the prac
tice of commtVees to authorize their chair
man to make their reports, when once thty
bad agreed to the principle o£them. The
gentleman, it was true, was much more in
the habit of being at the head cf committees
than he, and was more likely to be acquain
ted with the usual course of this kindcf bu
siness ; but if it were thejpraftice, he tho't
'it extremely improper. If, indeed, the re
port had (imply been, that the committee
were of opinion a bill ought to be reported,
no obje&ion could have been made to the
chairman's having so reported ; but when
lehgthy reasons were to be given, though
they might be very agreeable to the gentle
man himfelf, they might not be so to the
committee. It was true, that he wasoorp r
posed to the report itfelf, but this was not
the ground upon which he now afted.
Mr. Gallatin said he was not a naewber
of this committee, and therefore wholly dis
interested in the business. The treport seem
ed to be objected to on two grouads } the
one, because reasons for the report were
given at all ; and the other because they
Were the reafoni of the chairman himfelf,
and not of the committee. The firft did
aot ftrikebim a3 being forcible ; he thought
it ought to be left to the discretion of a com
mittee whether they will report the reasons
for their determination or not. With ref
peft td the latter objeftion, he agreed alto
gether with the gentlemen from Virginia 1
and Connefticut, and so far from its being 1
the custom for a chairman to report for a 1
committee what reasons he may think pro- 1
per, he believed he was entirely mistaken.
He never knew an isftance of the report of
a committee being presented to the house, 1
before it was firft laid before the committee
itfelf; for though gentlemen be in a minor
ity they ought certainly to be consulted j
with refpeft to any reasons which may be :
stated a& influencing the committee, other- 1
wife the reasons of the majority may be pla- 1
ced in the strongest light* and fliofe of the y
minority call into the (hade. Therefore,
if any thing more than a simple resolution
were reported, the report Ihould always be ]
laid before the committee, before it be pre- <
fented to the house. 1
Mr. Thatcher was proceeding Jo make t
some observations on the fubjeft : when
Mr.' Harper said, feeing the business was
likely to run into a debate, he would with
draw the report : -
WhJch, upon Mr. Nicholas's withdraw- 1
ing his motion for a re-sommitment, was
allowed. Adjourned i
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE
. House of Representatives
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29. ' *
Mr. E'ans presented two petitions signed
by a number of titizcns of Montgomery "
county, praying that a new eledlion diftrift c
be formed, and that the place of hold- j
ing the election may be at PoLtftown, which j,
were tead and referred to fh? members from a
the county.
Mr. Evans prefenfed a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of Montgomery
; county, referring to a fu'rnkcr petition, and
praying a sum of money be granted them
for the ereftion ps a bridge over the Mana- J
town«y creek, which was read, and referred
to a committee of roads and inland naviga
tion.
Mr. Vanhorne presented a petition from
the Trustees of the Academy at Newton in
Bucks county", praying a sum of Money for
the endowment of the said institution, whieh
was read and referred to a committee.
Mr. Gurney presented a petition from a
number of the owners of the land on the
Wiffahickin road, praying a law may be
i .B a (fed authorising the Governor to incorpor
ate a company to'ereftsiv artificial road,
which was read andreferftd to the commit
tee on the petitions from the citizens of
Germantown.
Mr. Worrel presented a petition from the
Trustees of Lower Dublin Academy pray
j ing leave to raise a fufficiept sum by way of
lottery to finifli the buildings, which was
read and referred to a committee.
Dr, Leib presented a petition from a
number of the citizens of Philadelphia eoun
ty; praying the Governor may be authori
zed to incorporate a company to ereft an
artificial road to the twelve mile ftotie on
the Reading Road,- similar to several alrea
dy ordered, which was referred a Comm/t
---tee already appointed.
The House resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on a bill to authorise Fre
derick Leather his heirs and assign. to main
tain a Dam across Bald Eagle creek in the
County of Mifflin. Dr. Leib in the chair.
After some time spent the committee rose
and the bill was recommitted.
Mr. Hemphill offered a rcfolution for
the continuance of the aft for increasing the
falarits of the Judges of the Supreme Court,
the President of the circuit Courts, and the
Secretary of the Commonwealth.
The report bf the Committee,on a, pyj
tionfromMifflin countypraying the appoint
ment of a trnftee, was read a second time,
and agreed to, and, a committee was ap
pointed to bring is a bill.
The farther report of the committee on
unfinifhed business was read a feeond time,
and - the different fubjefts were referred to
committees.
Several parts of the report on the Go
vernor's address, which were postponed,
were taken up and referred.
Dr. Leib laid the following resolution on
the table: Resolved, that a committee be
appointed to bring in a bill authorizing the
commissioners of the county of Philadelphia
to keep a record of the roads within the said
county.
The resolution offered by Mr. Hemphill
was called up for a second reading by spe
cial order and after considerable debate was
postponed till Friday next.
Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK? Dec. 30.
By an arrival at an eastern port, we are
favoured with London prints to October
18, from which we feleft a few articles of
consequence.
On the 10th of Oftober, a resolution
passed the French council of five hundred,
expelling from that house Freron and other
deputies from Guyanne. [What becomes
of the will of the sovereign people
The councils of France regularly keep j
the republican sabbath—that is, they fuf- i
pend their fittings on the firil day of each :
decade—a humble though distant imitation
of the christian inftitutiou.
Of so little value is the right of eleftion
held in France, and so omnipotent the pow
ers of the council of five hundred, that since
the 18th Fruftidorit is become a frequent
praftice for small numbers of men in the de
partments, who did not like the late elec
tion, to fend petitions to that council, re
questing thet* to annul tie eledion. Num
bers of tl *fe petitions are noted in the late
proceedings, and what is evidence of the
temper of the council »>n the fubjeft, the
petitions have been referred to a commiilion:
Surely France must be a free country.
Fifteen millions have been appropriated
by the courrcils to alleviate the distresses in
the departments desolated by war, fire, in
undation, hail, and epidemic disorders among
cattle.
Price of wheat, London, Oft. 18th, 55/5
bread 9^-d.
The direftors of the bank of England
gave notice Sept. 28, that dollars stamped
at the Tower, would be received at the
bank and ca(h paid for them at the rate of
4/9 each, until Oft. 31, after which they
would not be current at th« bank.
Sir Benjamin Hammet, elected mayor of
London, excused himfelf from serving on
account of ill health. The court of com
mon council voted 'a excuse him on condi
tion of his paying one thousand pounds, 1
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Dec. 23. I
The general cpurt rose on Thursday last
—The next session is to be holded at Hop
kintbn.
The frigate Crescent is expefted will fail
in 3 few days.
Lodgings Wanted,
FumiSied or uniurnilhjd for a Gentleman, La
dy and servant—two or three genteel Rooms an.t
a Garcct ; situated South of Market Street—En
quire of tl>e Printer.
Dec. iq. "jc
FOR SALE, 7
Several fonts of Types—half worn. \
Including Long Frime'r, aliout 400 weight, ia
good condition, and would answer the purpoi'e of
a country printer as well as new, <
Enquire of the Printer. nov 39. j i
X&e <£?a*ette,.
J : PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVi'NfNG, J.lSUjnr ».
Philadelphia, Jan. I, 1798.
SIR,
I have the honour to enclose herewith an
account of the quantity of flaur shipped at J
this port for •xportation in the year 1797,
and am with great refpeft, Sir,
your obedieut humblcfwvant,
JAMfcS READ.
His Excellency TllO Was MjTriiN,
Gojperaor of Petmfalvaniatd ,
5 - ••
Account of the flour flnpped at the port of
Philadelphia in the year 1^97.
of flour Bbb ot middlings-
Shipped in January 100
February 11430 265
March 147*8 69
April 22392 141
May 18162 ■ 679
June 1435*2 30 " >
Tuly 1 q 1
August 8830 284
September 5049 106
O&ober '5135
November i66Bi 10
December 7*98 15
In all, 136330 1732 bbls.
JAMES READ, Infpedtor.
Philadelphia Ift January, 1798.
His Excellency Gcrverndr Mifflin.
January ijl. 1798.
At a meeting e f the Stockholders of the
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal company,
the following gent'emaii were chosen as
officers for t'ne present year.
Prefident —William Sanfotn,
Managers—WftK -Smith, D. D.
.. ..
StAdffh -Forde,
John Sfeinmetz,
Jeremfah Parker,
Benj. R. Morga»,
Win. Montgomery,
Jamet M'Crea,
James C. Fisher,
Ebettezer Large,
George Afton,
Paul Beck, jun.
Tr«afurer—■Wm, Govett.
January \fi, 1798.
At a meeting of the Stockholders of the
Schuylkill and Sufqnehatina Navigation
Company, the following gentlemen were
chosen as officers to serve for the present
year:
Prejident—William Sanfom,
Managers—Wm. Smith, D. D.
John Steinmetz,
Win. Young,
Standifh Forde,
Joseph Ball,
Jeremiah Parker,
Francis Well,
Will. 'M»ntgom«ry,
Samuel Magaw,
James C. Fisher,
Henry-Drinker, Jun.
• Benjamin Morgan,
Treasurer- —William Govett.
Extraß of a letter from New-Tori•
I rejoice at the spirit manifefted by your <
citizens, in urging measures for a- fapply of
j frefh water. That is a great defideratuin, :
| and though it may not prevent the fever in
| all cases, it will lefTen its virulence and ex
! tent. Fresh water is worth a thonfand phy- I
ficians in that disease. Tlie water carriers J
in Cairo, who are eonflantly wet with pure '
water, escape the disease,* wheD others are !
dying around them, and that faifl worth nil
the medicine in the country. '
LA, FAYETTE.
General La Fayette and his companions in
fuffering did not <juit {be prism of Oltnutz till 1
the 19th of September. They were escorted by 1
a guard of dragoons to the Aufbian frontier,
after which a major had iiretfiions to accorapa- j
ny them ajfar as and to fee them to
the house of f-'PiftfJh, the late American !
consul, from wh#tn fee is to receive a note of ]
their fafe arrival.
On thisoccafion, the Baron de Thugut wrote 1
a letter to the Auftriau minister at Hamburgh, {
in which he makes use »f fhefe words—" In
form Mr. Parish, that it is not at the request of '
the direflory that bis imperial Majesty has giv
en liberty to M. La Fayette; it was his with to
give this mark ot :hi» good will and friendflnp t
to the United States of America, on the appli
cation which rhey had made in his favor, and j
toftewthemhowmiKh h'edefiredto comply witk a
their wishes," Sic. Ac. This information was
officially communieated to Mr.Parrifh.
The Pacha of Jane, or Janina, in Greece, t
has declared himfclf in favour of France,and t
caused the tree of liberty to be planted
with great folemnijy.
Lord Malmefbury has gone to Bath for
his health. h
The idea -that Gen. Hoche was poisoned (
still exists at Paris. Previous to interment 0
his heart was taken out and conveyed to' 2
Paris. n
Camille Jourdan has arrived in Switzer- t
land. t
The club called the cgnf.itutional circle d
held in the suburbs Antoine, has been shut v
up by the minister of police. 0
An erdtttj>&i jieen fentto Bre d to dif- b
mantle tfie fbips qf'jJjeline in port. li
Letters from Tunis, of August 17, men- r
tion that the plague was very mortal in that (
city—soo died in less than 8 days. o
. .... . P
The Spanish minister of marine is author- si
ifed to take 400 quintals powder from the d
magazines of the French republic. v
d
An article from Havre slates, that as u
commerce is carried on only by speculation 1;
and it is impossible to know the real fitua- c
tion of things, the merchants have fufpen- t
ded bufiftefs—money is withdrawn daily
fronj circulation- and concealed. 1
' 1 EUATAJ and ONISSIONS
lu ihe account signed " A friend to !;-.ws
and freedom."
After " willing" iuitead of toulributioas
, read " contributors."
j Aftrr '* rev;mit" &c. instead of resource
. rend " reemtrfe." ,
After " fliips loft by captures, &.c." read
'* to be paid the owners."
In note i, after the words " that as two
, cjninlrits may each benefit" read ,l by the
exchange of their furphis produce,
In note 8, after " promised to take csr«
ofthisboyjiimfelf&c."' inilead «f allonitbed
read " adtnonijhed."
In the third credit for toil rend " gan."
After the account, the note applicaoie to
a war with, other nation inftead,of
Great-Britain, and oppqfipr 10 the l credit»
beginning with the 4th, inftrt—Diftrefiing
to our eneir.ies, but not productive of any
laftiog benefit whatever to the TJ. States.
The following note on the cr. fide was
omitted—
'' To form a judgment on the fame unfor
tunate oceuririg with any other nation,
deduft the few pojjihle advantages herein (Hi
ed as resulting to the United States, and j
a tolerably just result will appear. In any
other contejl we could get nothing except with :
Spain and Portugal, whom we could cer
tainly distress, bot not so as to derive any
nationaL'beneEc to ourlelves.
tO. COaRKSPONBENTS.
The Communication of " A Rrpub'ictni" is
received. Whatever field for comment his fuh- i
jc<2 may afford, the unlkilful manner in which
he has uken up the controversy, wo'ild pro
duce an cfteit the reverie of what lie may pro
bably have calculated on.
Th; '<fleilion of » " Fem*ile Reader," on I
the commencement of the Mew Year, (hall
have a place to-morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
£ r'' '-■* ) . ,•>
New-York, January r.
A«RIVID DAYS.
Brig Lovely Lass, —, Boston r-3
L't/l of American captured Jhips in the part
of Nantes, September 20.
ship Oneida, of andfrom New-Tori to Lon
don, tried and condemned at tie tribunal of
commerce, second trial hourly expcßcd.
Jhip Brifeis, Breath, of andfrom New-Tori
to Amjlerdam, tried and condemned at the tri
bunal of commerce, second trial hourly expeS
ed.
j Jhip Confederacy, Jents, of new-Tori from
1 India, to Hambro, tried and condemned at the
tribunal of commerce } appealed to the tribunal
• of department.
j Jhip Rainbow, Smith, of andfrom Charles
ton to London, condemned at the tribunal of
commerce and tribunal of department, and cargo
fold-
Brig Catherine, Caieneau, of Newbury port,
from Virginia to Rotterdam, tried and condem
ned at the tribunal of commerce, second trial
hourly expeded.
Brig Mary, Curtis, from Marblehead to
l.iflon, withJjfh, upon interrogation »f the A.
merican cartful found his papers falfe, and com
mitted him as a prisoners of war.
tbip Light Horfc, Hajf, of New-Tori, from
Brijlol to New-Tori, lying at Pembujf, 30
miles from Nantes, not tried, but hourly expelled.
Ship Mercury, Leown, of Philadelphia,
from Norfoli to Bremen, corgo difchirged, to
bacco. not yet tried, but hourly expeded.
1 Ship Bacchus, George, of and from Phila
delphia to London, lying at Pembujf, not yet
tried, hourly expeOed.
Ship Charlotte, Lindfey, of andfrom Charle-
Jlon to Bremen, lying at Pemlnjf, not yet tried
hourly expected.
j Brig 'Juno, Walier, of and from Ports
mouth, N.H. to Hambro, lying at Pembujf
cargo rice and coffee, discharged. not yet tried.
Brig Mary, Holmes, of and front Bojlon to
Naples, not tried, hourly expelled.
Schooner Sally, RufTel, of and from Sa
lem to Bilboa, cargo diicharged of fifli, not
tried, hourly expedled.
Ship Eunice, Searl of Falmouth, MafT.
from Liverpool to Philadelphia, cargo dry
goods discharged, not yet tried, hourly ex
pected.
Ship Columbia, ILathrope, from New-
York to Hambro, belonging to Norwich,
coffee, sugar, See. cargo "discharged, not
yet tried.
Brig Mary, Choate, fr#m New-York to
Havre-de-Grace, lying at PembufT, not yet
tried, hourly expefted.
Brig American Hero, M'Doijgall, of
and from New York t« Cadiz, cargerice
and flour discharged.
A. M'DOUGALL.
N- B. All the vefTeh condemned are dis
charged of their cargoes flripped and laid
up, captains and crews on shore.
Portsmouth, December 23.
The ship Orono, Capt. Jamefon, arrived
here from Liverpool, which place he left
Oil. 23 —For NEWS by this arrival fee
our foreign head.—ln a heavy gale, Nov.
2d loft her sore-top-mast, and sprung her
main-top-mast. Was blown off this coast
twice. Oft. 29, about lat. 50, long. 17,
the ship 3 fitters, T. Wood, mailer, out 31
days from Wifcaflct, bound to White-Ha
ven-all well. Dec. 12, thirteen leagues
off Halifax, spoke a brig from Canada,
bound to Boston, out 14. days, could not
learn her name. Dec. 15, off Cape|St. Ma- '
ry's, spoke the fchr. Grey Hound, capt'i 1
Green, from Halifax, bound to Portland, ;
out 4 days, with a number of American ,
paflengers on board, who had had their vef- ;
fels taken and carried into Halifax Rnd con- '•
demned ; and who informed that American
veflels were taken, sept in, and condemned
daily by the English. A number were then >
under adjudication there. Dec. 16 about
lat. 43, long. 60, fpokethe (hip John Jay,
capt. Cazneau, from Batavia, out 5 months
bonnd to Boston, all well.
Came palfengers in the Orono, MeflVg.
1 Treat, Tedftill and Farren,
NEW THEATRE
' TO-MORROW EVENING,'
JAMOALY jl
Will be present :«tH<- ffcY©»i*c TR AGEUY c»
THE REVENGE.
Doq Mi. ilaivton Don Garl>,^
j Jit. Fo*—l>)n Alvarez, Mr/ Waneu—!)•;(,
i Mamul, jun.— Mr. ! » ■
rieMguyiing hi* ftcft akhturaacc here rticfe iJuts
•yeart ) *. '
, i Lemora, Mrs. Mcuy-lfibdja, MUi ttt'
tr ? M|feV . . >
*1 o which' will hf add-d, the Couii* Opera of
TliE ROMP.
ii« Dollar ; Iffe','three quarter* of a Dol
lar 4j «od li.f.iuy, hau a Dollar.
T . T ' .. I " 1 ' '
1 • V |? th« I h->*Ujtwill ppeo at pvc,
and thftoftain rife prwifcly il fit
PUfe« lor the Hoies to be taken at the Office iti
the faint o; the Theatre, from 10 till» o'clock,
a:iil from jc till 4 on the days of performance.
Ti«;k«is ti be had at H. arid Riri's book-tlure.
No. 50 Markrt-flreet, and at tVe Offiee adjoining
the 1 hearc, VIVA T JiSSfOjtt. ICA
' •' 1
C?" The new Comedy of the Cnre for thi
: Heart /.'che, which was received with the
' most diitinguifhed and flattering bunts of
I applause, will he repeated on Friday ; and
those Ladies and Gentlemen who were dif
; appointed of places in the Boxes at the Uft
j rcprefentation of Wives as they were, are *
I refpe&fully acquainted that it will be perv
I formed on Saturday—after which it must
! necessarily be laid oil account of new
' pieces 'in preparation,
Mrs. GRAT TA N y
Respectfully informs her friends and ths
public in general, hat necefiuy 'jhljges her
to make this eifarc for the maintenance of her in-»
l fanr family ; for thein Mrs C. solicits thefttpport
and of a /tijorous public, at her
SECOND CONCERT,
which will be timi trj,iiso, id January,* at
Mr. kicharili'.i'.
ACT !.
Sinfenio, Pleyet
Ballad-*—Mrs Gr+tias (wortl*lromuhaJUns
by a JLady
Quirtett —MelTrs. Gillingbam Hupficid, Ding'a
and Miencl
With a Solo for Mr. Giiliogham.
Song—Mrs. Grattan A morofa
Concerto—Piano Foito, by a Young Lady
Krumpholts
ACT 11.
Concerto—Clarinet, Mr, Wolf ——
Song—Mrs. Grattan Tacchini
Sinronio, Piehl
Subscribers Tickets Six dollars, which admit all
the unmarried ladies of his family.
No tickets transferable.
Non-subscribers Tickets Two Dollars.
The Concert to begin at half past fix, and tha
Band to attend for the Ball at eight-
The Subscribers will pleafetefendfer their tick*
ets, at No. j9* High Strew.
January 2. jt
POST-OFFICE, '
Philadelphia, Jan. 2.
C/* Letters for the British Packet the
Princess Charlotte, for Falmouth, > will be
received at this Office until to-morroiu noon.
N. B. The inland poflage to
mufl be paid.
The Gentlemen who were re
quested to obtain fignat*rei in the fevcral wards,
&c. to the petition addrefled to the Seleft and
Common Councils, on the fubjeft of watering
the city from a grand Reservoir, will be pleased
to have their intending trust cumpleted against
next WedntJHay afternoon ; when meffeiigerj
will wait on them for the purpose.
SAM. MAG AW, Ch»irman
of a Meeting of Citizens.
Jnnuary 1.
~: win be sow;
On Tuesday the 10th day of January j'nft.
at 7 o'clock in the Evening at the Mer*
chant's Coffee-Houfe, the following def*
t'fibed trafts of land—ni.
Seven contiguous trails of land, fituatc
on the waters of little Equinunk creek, in
the county of Northampton, surveyed on
warrants dated refpeftively the pth day
of Oftober, 1776, and patented in the year
1 7 1 3-
ALSO,
Fifteen thaufand acres of land situate in
in Union, Springfield and Shirly townftiips
inHuntingdoncounty—Particulars of which
may be known by applying to Charles En<
dy, No. 4, North Eighth Street. «t
Peter Benfen, Auctioneer.
J an - 2 * dtioth.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferibar, on the 14th
of December. 1797, a N.gr» Man, about
years old, by th» ■ t»£ Cato.he is about 5 feet
7or 8 inches high, mi jlisff well proportioned; ho
has a very coarse voice, his fore teeth ftani very
far apar: ; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloathi he took with
him, for he took two or three suits j he had on
when he went away, a pair of kerfcy trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good (hirts I
«xpc*st he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
Whosoever takes up said negro and f cures him, so
'hat the owner may get him again, shall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
January 2. 'fttaaw
Ran away the 25th of Decem
bcr,l797, aN<!groMan, about 5 feet j or 6 inch,
es high, of a yellow complexion; w«en spoke to
and called by his name he faa 1 quick fliarp look
out of his eyes and (hew* the white of them very
much ; hat taken all his eloalh<s with him, which
ate, a new kerfcy great coat, a- grey broad cloth
and elAfe bodied coat, a striped v ft, n nkeen
trcjchei, silk (InckiHgs and ruffled (hirts, and a
number of other dtathc. The laid Negro under
ftaadf farming, and is a good (hoemaker and car*
pentert he can reaj} and write tolerably well—lt
Is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
said and ftcures him, i'o that I get him, stall
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fuhfsriber,
Susannah Midforo, living in Etill Pond, Marj*
land, Keut cuonty. (
N. B. The above Negro it 19 years old.
-January q 6t
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are htrtby notified, that an
*le4l ion for twelveJDireilort, for the ensuing year,
will heheld at the fcark on Monday, the Sth of
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELI..S, CafhUr.
Dteember li. dtgthjPROPOSALS I
FOR
CJRRriNG THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Foads will b:re
c?ived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February ne."{t iuduiive.
PENNSYLVANIA, Ve.
t. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Stt'H?- 1
tit, Camwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Mitford, Cljughs, Pagfboreugli, Trap,
Snoivhill, HnVntown and Actomac court house to
Northampton court heufe three times a wevk.
April 1 to November Iy. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thnifday and Siutrday at 2 a M,and
arrrivc at Northampton curt houfeon Thufday,
S lurday and Monday Jty*r». Returning. Lejve
Nunhaiuptonc9art erery FiUay, Monifay
and wed* fjay at } aw, and arrive at PhiladSl
philsti Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 i-a
r 11.
A'r-jemier 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuefd y, Thutfday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 im. Returning—
Leave Northampton court hoal'e every Saturday, ;
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 A m, and arrive at :
Miiladelptiia on Wednesday, Friday a-jd Monday '
fcy 7'i
VIRGINIA.
i- From Northampton court honfc to Norfolk :
thrve times a week. ! <
April rto November 15. Leave Northampton ,
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- 1
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. j ,
Xethrnin*—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- j j
day and Monday a 4 a m, andarriveat Northamp- < c
ton court house in twenty four hours. 1 r
!Vov -Tiler i j to April I. Leave Northampton J (■
court hcufe everyTuefday, Tharfday and Saturday a
at 3 a m, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hsurs. Re
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdaef- |
day and Friday by 4a m, and arrive at Northamp- Q
ton court house in 24 hours.
' PENNSYLVANIA C 3* MARYLAND. a
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New- j.
port,Chrifliana,Middlctown,Warwkk andGoergc- j a
town cross roads toChefterllownthreetimesa week. 1
M,ty Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every l a|
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p h, andar
r.ve at Cheftertown the next days by 8p m. He- al
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- n
n-fdiv and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila- . n
ddphia the next days by 8 pm.
November 1 to May 1. Leave Philadelphia eve- t ,
ry Mvoday and Friday by 9 a m, and ainv« at h,
Cheftertown on Tutfday *ud Saturday by 4 p m.
Miming—Leave Cheftwrtown every Monday and M
Friday fey 8a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. Y
MARYLAND. •' l
4: Prom Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, a i
Newmarket, Vienna, and Prin- a(
ctfi Ann to Salilbury once a weak.
Receive the n(?.il at Cheftertown every Wednef- • ),
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave h
Eaffon on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill l
, on Friday by I p. m, and at Princkfs Ann by 6 p.
u. Returning—Leave Princess Ann on Saturday by aI
10 am, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday &
by 6r m. Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8 a M,and e ,
arrive at Che!tertown fame day by 4 p m. ni
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Black horse
ones a week. [j,
Leave Harford everyTueflay by 10 A m, and
arrive a' Black horle by 6p m. Returning—Leave ;ir
B!~ckhorfLi on Wednesday by 6A m, and arrive at M
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m. at
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- d.
GIKIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown hi
Pa. onee a week. 01
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Blackhorfe en Saturday By 10 am, and arrive r j
a* Yorktown by 8 rM. Returning—Leave York- j
town every Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at Bal- y,
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Peterlburg, q
Taney ton and Fredericktown to Leefburjg once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive •„
at Fredericktown on Tutfday by 5r m, and arrive ' v
atLeefburgon Wednesday by »p m. Returning-r- w
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, and arrive i
at Yorktown by 6 v m on Sunday. ar
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown,Gettilburg,
Fairfield, Eliiabethtown, Williansfport, Martins- ho
burg, Winchester, Stevenftnirg and Strafburg to St
Woodßock oilce a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by rioon, arrive ni
at Martiuibur; on Tuesday by II am. Leave Ca
Martinlburg on Tugfday nobn andarrive at Wood- a \
flock on'Weducfday by 6pm. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- m.
tinfburg on Friday by it am, andarrive atYork- p
town on Snnday by 11 a m.
9. Frora Pittfburg by Cannonibuifg, Walhing- 0 n
ton, W«R Liberty and Whatling to the month of
Filbing creek once a weeU (contrail for one year ] et
onl r) or
I.eave Fittfburg evety Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing crtek on Sunday at 9 a m . Return
ing— creek on Wed*efday at 8 a m,
• and arrive at Pittlburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Waibingtonby Brawnfville andUnioo
to MorgantoWn once a week. liV
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am. and airiva
at Wolhington by 6p m. Leave Waibington on tai
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun-
cay at 6P m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at Lc
8 a u , andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Frederickmwn, Eliza- ari
bethtown, Greancaftle and Chamberfburg to Ship* M,
■penfbui g once a week. an
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 am, arrive Le
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 am, at Eli- ri\
zabethtown in the evening, atld at Shippenfburg Ed
oil Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippenf- Ri
burg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeths
town at Bpm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday tJ c
neon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 r u.
MARYLAND, an
12. From Eiizabethtown by Hancock and Old- R e
town to Cumberland once a week. M
LeavtCumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and '
arrive at Elizakethtown 011 Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—l .eavc Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by*
6 m. M »
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week. M "
Leave Baltimore every Monday a. 8 am, and Jn '
arrive at AnnapoH* by 5p m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8A m, and arrive at *-h
Baltimore by 5 pm. oni
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen >nn»,
Upper Marlborough,Pifeataway.Portrobacoo, 1- da;
lensfrefh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown 011
onee a week. ifa:
I.eave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive liv
at Annapolis at jt». , Leave Annapolis on Sa- by
tufday ai 6 a m, arrive at. Upper Marlborongh''
by noon, arrive at Pifcataway by 6pm. & arrive at i 3
Lecnardtowu every Monday forenoon by 90' clock. Cai
Returning—Leave Leonardtown every Monday st 3 '*>
> m, arrive at Pifcataway on l'uefday by 6 pm
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by 1
it. am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6» «. Leave *■ 1
Anpapolis 011 Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at ''
Baltimore by3> m. at 6,
lj. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
HurttiUgton and Calvert court house to ih. Leon
ards once a week *, *'
Leave Aiinapoli- every Saturday at 9A u, and , f
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3r m. Re- j*| „
turning —Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 a",\
r m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am. g
16. From Bladenfburg by Upper M.ulhorouyh t0 h
w» Nottir.jj'am, I iT.-cr MarlriO Vcjulico, B. n
na Ct ,iv, Chariot c.im to C.uptico onceawejk.
Leave Bladoiiburg very Sata/day at 9 a m, ar
rive at Upper vtarl by noon and at Lower
, .Vl.irlbe, Monday by 5 r u, & at Cbaprico
*by 6 r m Returning— J'hurfr
re . lay at 6a m, and arrive at IJladenlburgon Satur
. day at 6a m.
ntll 17 Pioii Gerrjetown b;'Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive a'Frrdericktown by 6 pm. Returning—
j Leave Fredericktown every Thursday by J a m,
" " and arrive at Georgetown by 6P m.
r=d " VIRGINIA.
''''' 18. From Wood.lock by Mtwmarket, Rocking
cto hin court house, Staunton, Lexington and l'incaf
eje to Big Lick once a week.
Tv " Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
-3 rive at Staunton 011 t-'riday at Ip m. Leave JStaun
ton every Friday at 2 p m, arrive at Big Lick on
Sunday by ua m Returning—Leave Big Lick
onSuuday by r p m, arrive at Staunton every Tuef
t*ay by II am. Leave Souiatom by 12 o'clock
1 )i:< o:i) and arrive at Wcodftock on Wednesday by
S 'V.
ev " 19. From Big Lick by Montgomery court house '
and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week. 1
Leave Big Lick every Sunday at Ip m, arrive '
i at Wythe com house on Tuesday by 2 p m, and at
> | Abingdon on Wednesday by 6pm Returning— j ;
at ) Lrava Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
at Wythe couit house on Friday by 2 pm, and ar- 2
i rive at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 A m.
I TENNESSEE. c
' c ; 20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jon;fl)orough
Greenville,Moffat's (lore and Jefferfon court h«ule t
on to Knoxville once a week. f
r '~ ' Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar- r
r ? - 1 rive at Moffats ftorc on Saturday by 8 am. Leave I
ri " I Moffats by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun- r
P" I day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by 1r m, arrive at Moffats on Monday ''
on 1 by 3j" m. Leavo Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
a y and arrive at Abingdon on Wednsfday by 7t m. '
, VIRGINIA. ' f
I 21. From Winchester by Rotrtney to Moorfieldi
P" once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6a m, and (
arrive at Maorfield an Friday by 6P M. Return- q
'" ; ing—Leave Maorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and |
," j arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM. v
J 22. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
y and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week. \
r * Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, \
f" and arrive at Martinfborg on Friday by 10 Am . I
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by C
l " noon & arrive at AUxaadriapn Monday by 7 am. <
23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- *
tons, Tappahannock, Urbauna and Gloucellcr court n
house to Yorktown once a week. "
*' Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a '
' m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11 •
" am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at ?'
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every-Saturday at 1P M, arrive W
'> at Tappahannock the next Monday Doon and arrive
at|Frcdcrickfkurg on Tuesday by 5 PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court „
house, Wefltr.oreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
"j hfm church and Northumberland court house fd fc
Lancaster court house oncca week' ta
'• Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
J arrive at Lancalbar court houle on Saturday by 1» r '
y am. Returaing—Lea veLancafter court Uoufe ev- S:
" ery Saturday by ■ PM. and arrive atTappahan- "
no»k oii Monday by 11 am.
e 2'. From Fredepckfburg by Culpeper court
house & Orange c. h. to ■Char iattefviUeonce a week.
1 leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 19 am, "
e arid arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A
•t m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturdaj n
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederickfbure on l'tief
- day by 6A Ml "
26. Prom Richmond by Goochland court- al
n house Caluaibia and Charlottefville to Staunton R
once a week. r
e Leave Richmond every T-uefday at 1r n, ar
e rive at Charlottefville on'Thurfday by 11 am. ai
Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at ct
Staunton on Friday by t r AM. Returning— h '
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 a m, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7p m, and arrive at Rich- [J
mond the next Tuesday by 9 a m.
c 27. I'r.iin Staunton by Bath court-feoufe and
. Sweet Springs t<i Greenbrier court-house once a ar
week. ta
. Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6a m, and h'
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
, 6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier Court- ar
. house every Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
, Staunton on Thursday by 8 fM.
28. From Charlattefvile by Warren, War- co
minfler, New-Market, Anherft court house, g ,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
• a week.
Leave Charlojtefville every Thursday at 1 f "i
M- and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
M. Returning—Leave Lynehburg every on
1 uefday Uy 6a m, and arrive at Charlottefville w
on Thursday by 10 A M.
*9- From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay- at
Todds to Tappahannock once a week m ;
•r if carried in stages as often as they shall run. bei
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 a m,
arrive at 1 odds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave l°t
; 1 appahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar- we
rive at Richmond on Tuelday by 5 p m.
jo. From Richmond by Hapkina's, Powha- r ' v
, tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince V
. Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a 'week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A m, cb ;
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P Gr
, m, and arrive at Lynchburg gn Friday at 8A M, fro
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning— bui
Leave New.London every Friday at 2 p m, ar- °"<
rive at Lynchburg by 5p m, arrive at Prince 1
; Edward on Saturday by 7 PM, and arrive at S ?'
Richmond on Monday by 4 p m.
31 • From New-London by Liberty to Fincal- c°"
tie once a week. u
Leave New London every Friday at i. p m, on!
and arrive at Fincallle on Saturday by 6't m. J
Returning Leave Fincajlle on Monday at 5 a r i Vi
m, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon. —■ l
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- riv
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 a
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p '
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM, L°'i
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. ' t ir
33- From Prince Edward court house by om
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house 1
once a week. arr
Leave Prince Ed war 1 court house every Tbyrf- » rr
day at 6 AM, and arrive at Halifax court botife on
oil Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Has- M
ilax court house onFridaybv 2 PM, and ar- 'J J
rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturdav
by 6 P M. '
5- 'V' - VIRGINIA imWORTH-CAROLIitA. 'J
! 34- From Hi'lifax coun-houfe by Ha'.lax old town, \\' a
I Cartels, Martinville, Patrick eourl-houfe, Upper Sau- Gci
r «i Germantnwn md BelhaniatoSalem once in two ' r
weeks. "
Leave Halifax Court-house every other Friday at f
a, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6, x. ta
PM. Return ng—Leave Salem every other Tuesday at (
at 6, A M, and ajrive at H»lifaxeouit-houfe 011 Fri
day by 10, A M.
S5. Fiom Hum's by Hickes'sford to Halifax twice
a week. /
Leave Harris's eveiy Wednesday aod Swurday by •/ "
5, AM. andarriveat Halifax by 6, P M. Reiurn- •>/ '■
ing—leave Halifax evtry Thursday and Sunday by 6, frnf>
A Mi and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M. by
VI&CINIA. A
36. From Smithfidd by Southampton ee»rt-huufe *nd,
to Hickes'sford cnce a weejt. } ft
J n Ltjvc Hkk/rfff* every Frid iy I>9 2, P .vf,
itk. an.l arrive at Smifhficld on Saturday by 5, P M.—
, ar- Return*^ —LeaveSmithfield ew/y oih.r Sunday by
vver 5» A aridarn/eat Htclts's L»r4 on Monday by
tico 2, P M '
arf- 37- fromG old font by G reforidge, St. Tammany 5,
tui _ Mccklc ibrrg and Lunenburg ( coiKt-houfes and Ed
:nund& ilo»e 10 Gold Ton'® once a week.
>urt Lea v e G'>ldfou'»every Wcdnefchy at xo, AM, and ,
return t^enext Saturday by 2, P Mj watting at each t
, Poll-Q,Hsc 2 hours after delivery or the mai . . .
and VIRGINIA & NORTH-CAROLINA.
S 38. From Suffolk.by Edenton, Plymouth and Wa-
V M * (hington to Newbern, once a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at r.Of»n t arrive at Edenron On Tuef- (
day at 1, P M, at P.ymouth. on Wtdncfdjy by 6, £
n £" A M, at Washington by 6, P M, and at Ne wbern on
caf- Thursday by PM. Retiming —Lrave Newbern c
every Friday by 6, AM, arrive at Waning!on by
ar- 5, P M. Arrive at Piymouih on Saturday by 4
un- P M, a: ou Jjunday by 9, A M, andarSuf- '
on folk on'Monrtuy by q, A
.ick NOk/tl CAROLINA. '
iief- 39. From Nixon'ton, Eliza- "
ock beth cify, aud Juneiburg to Indian-town, once a
by w f ek. a
Leave Eden ton every Wednesday by PM, and
u C c arrive at fndian-town on Ihu l'day by 6, PM. Rf-
turning—Leave Indiaritown every Tuesday by 5, A M,
and arrive at fcdenton on Wedn.fday at »!, H M.
4©. from Ha'ifax by Northampton court-house,
, | Princeton, Murfreefbcwugh, Wintou and Windsor
j to E<lcnton. once a week. 1
,vc Halifax every Monday at 9, A M, and arrive
ar " at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, PM, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive ac Halilax
on Satur'ayby 11, A M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
lie ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave r
Halifax every Monday at i«, A M, and arrive at Ply
kr- mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning— c
ve Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at e, PM, and ar- v
n- rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM. 1
e- 4 2 ' From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Wafhingtoponee a week o
Mj Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, AM, and ar- ti
' rive at Walhiugton on Wednesday *y io A M. Re- tf
turniug—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2, r j
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM. £
43. From Halifax by Warienton, Wiiliamlborough,
, Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
-1 ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
n " Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and !
1( * from tbencc by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week. ' P*
r g Leave Halifax evety Monday at g< A M, arrive at
Wairenton by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
m, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Fiiday by 5, ot
m. PM, a*. Salisbury on Sunday at 4, PM, and at
jy Charlotte on Monday by ff, A-M. Returning—leave til
m. Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
y- «»ri Tuesday by to, A M, arrive at Salem Wed~ cc
rt nefdayatg, AM, at Hilllboroug)i on Friday by g, v<
AM, at Warrcmonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at te
A Halifax »n Monday at 6, AM. i n
n - 44- Frorp Hillfborough by Mount Tirz3h, Pcifon cc
at c ® ur t"b°ufe, Leafburg, Cafwell court-house and Roc- 0 a
kingham court-house to Germantown once in two
weeks.
yc Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, AM* t j,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M, Ca
rt and aryve at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, PM.
From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch-
ford, Wilkes, Morgauton and Rutherfordton to Spar- /]
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks,
id Leave Salem rvei y other Saturday at 5a m, and ar
i rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5p m. Leave
r- S part anbiirg every other Thujfaay at / Am, and ar
-- r * ve a' Salem the nefct Monday at 6 p in. j
-46. From Loui(burg by Nafti court-house to Tar- I
r | borough once a week.
Leave Tarborougb evpry Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rivcat Louifburg by 6 pm. Returning—Leave Louis-
A * burg every Saturday Vy 6a m, and arrive.at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m . to
f- Irom Raleigh by Smithßeid, Waynefborough,
and Kingllon to Newbern, once in two weeks, al
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8a m, and ar
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m* of
,n Returning Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2 re
f m, ana arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 pm. tu
r- 48. From Raleigh by to Hillfborough,
4. and from Hillfborough I>y Chapel hill and Chatham c k
a t court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
_ hours at Chatham court-lu>uFe.
tt Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednefdiy by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m,
49« Froth Fayettcville by Elizabethtown, Bellefort afl
a and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming- th
t«n by S. Washington, Sare6lo and Sampson court- lai
d house to Fayetteville, once a week.
y Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6a m, and
_ arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
t turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday 14AM,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. Froni Fayetteville by Aliordton and Randolph
coart-houfe to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
> g»mery court-boule, Anion court-house and Rich- -
e mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayettcville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
P arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
s lifbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
y on Friday by 6p m.
e 51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 am, and arrive I
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil-
K mington every Tuesday at io am, aud arrive at New- & -
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
, SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
1 52. Front Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
; lotte and Lincolnlon to StaiefvilJe, once in two
. weeks.
Leave Camden every.oi.her Moddxv at 6 a m, an-'
, v \^ c every other Friday by »p m, a»d arrive at Cam
den on Mondav bv 6 p m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
• court-house, PinckneyvilJe, Spartanburg and
Greenville couit-houfe to Pickenfvillc, and
t from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week ; waiting
. one hour at each poft-of&ce on the route. l St
, Leave Columbia every Monday at 9a m, arrive at
r Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at 16,
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens 9
court-house on Friday at 4r m, and at Columbia on _
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia byOrang-burg to Cbarlcflon,
, once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 am, and ar- .
i rive at Charleston on Thurlday at 10 am. Returning !
—Leave Charlclton every Thursday at tp m, and ar- IC
rive ai Columbia on Sunday at noon. but
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA. J
55• From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge, I* 10
, Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tons.ord, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peters etSl
' ru l ° Wathi^on ' f ro,n Washington by Pe-
terfburg and Cambridge to court-houfe, c^c
r once a week. Wa
; Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw, icle
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am (Via
" arrl^ e at Frank 'm court-house by 7pm, at Petcrlburg twe
. on Tuesday by 10 am, and at Washington by 5 p fibl
■ M * <VCT y Wednesday at 6 a m, w hi
at Cambridge on Thursday by 10 am, and at Edge- the
held cjurt-houfe by 7 p 14, •
i 6 From by W.aftingoa, G»Rnllur g and
Lexington to Gcorjjcuiwn, osfco i' wtcli, T?' -. 1
~.L . t> Ve Au S u,la tv «y MSmfcyat 3 M , arr i ve M "8
i Wa.hington on TueSday by 5 p m, and a.rive at f
Georgetown on Thursday by 7 p m. Retimin*— be (
Leave Geo.zetown every Fiiiiyai 6 am, and arfive 1
at Aug'iUa by noon on Monday. Pri
57. FiomGardeniCorner to Beaufort oncea week. ors
Leave Btauforf every Thursday at 2p M) ant l arnv( ! mol
at Gaidens Corner by 8 p m. Jtlturiutg— Leave Gai.
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m", and ariive a*t ,
Beaufort by 10 a. m. j
Nttc I. The Pojl Mafier Qentral may alter the time'
'f "rrtvalanJ departure at any ttmedurJng the continuance * n<l
; '-j the centra Sis, be frevioujly JHpulming an adequate cum
■ f>r a My extra expenfc thai may hocaajioncj tier-.
\b •
Half™ hour fiall he allowed pr opening Tl
and clcjing to, Mai!a! all office, -mhre no particular tine H
J it Jpirik d, .. ,
I • ♦ real*
\f, Note 3. /w every hour's delay (unavoidable Accuents
[.— excepted jin arriving alter the times prefer ibed in aiiy con
/by tra% the Contractor Jhall JorJeit one dollar, and if the de
fby lay continue until the d.parture of any def ending Mail u
'thereby the Mailt defined for such depending Mail, hfe
•y's, a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars Jhall be
Ed- incurred'
Note 4 Ndxvf papers as iifellas Let'ers ere t9 lx fe.it
and i n the Marls ; artiif any feYfon making proposals defttes
t*ch t<t carrj nexvfpapers other than tbbfc conveyed in the mail,
far bis otv/i emolument, be mujl Jlate in bis proposals for
iabat sum be tvill carry it ivith that, emolument and for
a " ivbat sum loilbout that emolument.
Folk AW 5- Should any per fun making proposals deftre an
Jt ~ alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc
' cijiedy be mull Hate in bis proposals the alterations desired',
1 an i the difference they ivili make in the terms of his an
"by 'r"f
---y Vote 6. Pe forts making proposals are d'fired to ftatc
>uf- t^e,r P r 'c*t i" S ro f s h y ear > an d sty the mile.
Those ivbo contract tvill receive their pity quarterly, in
the months of fanu(rry 9 April, >ly aud QcioAer, in'
j za _ drafts on the pojl offices »n the route and in bank notes.
:e a Note 7. The conttaEls are to be in operation on tbs fir ft
day of April next, and continue for four years 9 until
ind 3 iji day of March inclusive, in the ytar fBoZ.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
j fe Post-Master General.
.for General Post Office, ")
Philadelphia, December 18, 17971 J
ive • tuth&sti4thF
i« New-Theatre,
ro f. December 11, I 797.
ave '"I Manager, particularly rcqueft the con
ly. 1 of the publip in the abolition of a
; cudoai, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a- \
ar. Way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at th«
Theatre. <
to They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of any wrong done to tlie interest of the inftitu
ar- tion by this prailicc, from a general, though naif- -
taken Idea that Checks are the representatives of a
21 right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
»■■ when in fa<S, they were never intended as more
'8" than tokens by which the Door-keepers are enabled
|i( j to afcertaia with the lead trouble to the parties, that .
. a they them/elves have been before in the Theatre, or <
paid for their admiflion.
Jt Independent of the injury the Managers sustain, J!
3n such a practice encourages a croud of idle hoys and J :
other disorderly persons to surround the doors «f
a t the Theatre, to the aorjuption of their morals and
ve the great annoyance of the Audience.
ry It has alfobeen thefotirce of two evils of no in
i~ considerable magnitude ; one is, that fomctiraes
9, very improper company is by these moans admit
at ted ; and (he other, that to Checks pafling
into difhonell hands, they have be:.n frequenaly
counterfeited tb a large amount for the purpofesof
>0 Sale.
'° This (Utement will, it is refpeftfully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
JJ* the exertions of the Managers will, if thus affifled, -
l." easily prove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
h- December 13 lw
Musical Inflrument Manufactory,
ir- 167, Arch-street. |
ve TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
ir " HARPER, h
lf TNFORMShj's friends and the public, that he has K
X now ready for sale, a few of his »ew 'invented,
|r _ and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
if. Pedak,patent i'well, fomipahant and i'rench harp
0 _ stop. which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftrudlion, the
h, foperiority of which.he flatters himfelf, a single tu
al -will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
id are raanofaiftured under his immediate isfpeflion,
m, of the very beS seasoned materials, he can fell oil
2 real'onable terms forCASH. Inftrumatits repaired,
tuned, &c.
h, N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
m change for new.
tiove miter 18. iiwimo.
v r ; Samuel & Miers 1
ve are now opeminu,
At their Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frefh
irt affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, Suitable to „
g- thefeafon, scceived by thelaite arrivak from Enr
-t- land.
They have also for Sale.
'd Lisbon -)
e - Teneriffe ,
Sherry, and ( In P l P". hh(iß - and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
1 Assorted queen's ware in crates, Sec.
loth mo- 23d. d 1 wjtaW3w. J
,a City of Wafhingto-n. t
SCHEME
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
e For the Improvement of the Federal City.
I- Amagnificentdwelling-houfe 30,000 dollars, ~
'- & cash 30,000, are 50,000
I ditto ij,ooo & cast 15,006 40,00®
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
t ditto 10,000 Sc. cash to,ooo 10,000 j
1 ditto
f ditto s,ooo & cash 5,000 10,000 4
1 cafti prize of »o,o«o .
» do. 5,000 each,are? > 10,000 1 :
10 do. 1,000 - - io^ooc
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 . 10,000
, 1,000 do. 20 * 20,000
15,00 c do. 10 - 150,000
t
t x Pri:e». A
s ii, 261 Jllanks.
50,000 Ticketi, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan- B
" tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be H
_ the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last n
but oni :
And approvednotes, securing payment in either
monny or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will N
I be received for anynumbcr not lefsthan 30 tick- G
ets. ' C
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of Sj
, cheprivate buildings to be ere&ed in the City al Pi
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already CI
, fele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing!-it is proposed to ereel
? two centreaod 'our corner buildings,as soon aspof- N
fible after this lottiry is fold, and to convey them, A
1 when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
• the manner described in the fchpmc for the Hotel CI
Lottery. A nett of five percent, will L
be made to defray tl;e neceflafy expeirfes 0/ print- N<
►ng, &c. the i'urplus wiil be made a part of A
the fund intended for <>be National Utfsverlrty, to C
be erecledwithin the city of Washington. A
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the PreSdeHt and two Direfl- "~
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
moretljan half the amount of thelettery. Al
SAMUEL IiLODCF.T.
: Tickets may be had at the Bant of Colsm
hn ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter F(
Gilman, Boston ;of John HsphJns, Richmond cd
■ RirJiard Well?, ropper'n nw lh '
Samuei pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreely
TT AVE received a fupply.of Seasonable OOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on agi
realonable terms. q'iS j? ' 6
' For Savanhnli,
dc- TO SAIL THE FIRST
to'/, The faft failing ihip
ft idmt SWIFT PACKET,
Patbick ORIBBEN, M-iS T,
'y'"g thefirfl rfhiirf below
fircj Market Street—has ham'fome ac
wil, commodations fo r passengers—For freight or pal
for sage apply to the Matter on hoard, or to
f or N. £ff J. Frazer,
a „ Nn 95, South Front Street.
rp c - Who ha-ve on hand, and for Sale,
rcJ, Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
■in- and Carolina Indigo, JVlolaffes in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. Sec
laic December 17 3 tawtf.
til'. ———
«». Wanted to Charter,
"' r rCT2~V A Britilh v./r-T, fiftetn hundred
to two fjioufend five hundred bar
"i burthen -
Peter Blight,
WHO HAS FoR. SALE,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogfhaa
and old London Particular Madeira, fit lor imme
diate use, in pipes.
December ao §lw
For Charleston,
J —THE SHIP
- t it ve nus,
a J L y ,n S at ih : ?■'* lr l "f M-jfrs. Phalli
s " \ QHE will take Freight on very
[j a ' £z O low terms, ami fail the firll
opening. Apply to the mailer on board, or t»
us Jos. Anthony Ssf Co.
u ~ Detcmbenß £
if- * 9
* For Amsterdam,
i F A R M E R,
*t J°" N M'Co-i.i.o!«, Master;
>r WII J I. fail i n a f ew days, the
dtc^t^St -= s:3 greater part of her sargo being
n I ready. For freight of fifty tons of Ccrffee, or pa£
, d ' faje, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
r street wharf, or to
g JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
« Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter casks
jS Claret in cases, of a superior quality
y Fentiniac,
Sauteme, C Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes ;
novemher 24.
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
William Whittem, Matter,
-'i-'-i*'' " A flrong good vessel, about two
hundred tens, to fail with, all convenient speed, a
ls great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. Far freight or paf
h fa g £ . apply to the captain, or
P JOHN SKYRIN,
f >:lrc Tver's "wharf*
f Who wants to Charter.
I_ A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
y nvif 18. £
i, I —. _ ,
» For Sale or Charter,
> SS^T'GO'OD*HOPE,
Wi '' carry at,oat 1100 barrels, and
_ ||g|§jg is ready to take in a »argo. For terms
} Pragers Ess Co.
j, No. IJI, South Second-street.
o Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
_ Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
For Liverpool,
S copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
X Captain Silas Swain.
" A Large P ro P orcion of her
-> 3 _l x cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
■ PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
November a 2.
!; For Savannah, in Georgia,
® _ THE SHIP
o SftHy Butler,
» a i >ta " 3 QwrstfOx"M,
o a new vessel, with excallent
0 accommodations for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
c Passage, apply to ROSS SIMSOH.
\Vh» have to difpeje of f
" A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
0 INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
0 n (rvemits 'J 8.
1 FOR SALE, B1
o Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chcfnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Braady, ill and ad
proof, juil landed
- 150 bales of Eoutbon cotton of al'uperior quality
0 9 do. Surat, do do
- A fjuintity of heavy blaek pepper in bales
i- JJourhon Indigo of the firft quality
e High proof Jamaica lpirits
r Old London particular Madeira wine /In pipes &
r do. market do C qr. calk,*
[1 New England rum in hogfbeads
. Genuine HoUanrf Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
if Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
,1 Prime Boston beef
y Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrel*
c Do. Herring in do Jo
\ Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : r.en
A few tons Of Rulfia cordage ,
n Ruflia faathrrbeds
j Clover ajd i'imothy JV«d in jafin -
1 Loiig-wftile-liofle ' V ' ■' ' " ' *'*
- No' I, a', and s 3, Boston fail duck
f A few chefh fir« quality Hyson tea
3 Carolina rice in whole and ha!/ tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
• N vepiber 8. ' dlv/
t ~rhis day is Publilhed^
At the office ol'ihe Aurora, No. 112, Maiket Street
I Price one dollar asd a half,]. '
A view of «hccondiiilof the EXEGUTIVF in it.
r FOKEIGN AFFAIRS oftbe United Siatss, conooft '
ed with the M ffion to the French Repubhc dori fll r
the years, 1794, a, 6. *>
By JAMES MONROE,'
Late Minilter Plenspotentiarv to the MH. n. n ..ur
liluitra'.ed try aiidToa!
RESPONDBNCE and o: her authentic doc^em,
A very liberal allowance to Uiofe who bny to fell
again. '
December 23,