*r
tdm £t&teg, Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
By lohn Ward Fhnno, N°- 119 Che [nut Street.
x\ VMBr.A 1915-] v
I
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 6, C 79&
AVIS AUX PRANCAIS.
n,_ Le Parkmrntaire lc
BENJAMIN franklin, 1
Capt. Jones,
'•0~Z:~: y3f Conau pat fa marche fupifieure, par-
X*«f "Z3 t;ra le I, prefix, direaement p-ur
Jtrimie -, ccux ijui y prendre pa.Tage font
prie.de U rendre i Phiiadelphie aiant .a due
i New York chez Meffieur' Bhtichr
rcau and Cazer.euve, James street, No 10, an* a.
Phiiadelphie d>ez Fjs. Brenil, armateux dudk ba-
timeiit Spruce street, N®. irj#
le 5 nov. _____
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST, on the road from Mount-Holly to l'hi
ladelphia, on Monday 29th O&ober, 179®> f
the following NOTES, payable to the fubferiber :
& Dolls. Cts.
Elizabeth Norman, of Juns 19
1706, at 6 months,for 333 33
Do. fame date, at I a months, 333 33 -
Do. do. 18 months, 333 33
Jacob Norman, September 30 r-.
X 795, at 60 days, 81 60 j
Thomas Potts, Sept. lb, 179&> r
at 6e days 9 DO
Jof.ph Doane, Aaguft 17, 1796,
at 6 months } 440 60
Do. fame date, II months 440 60 he
Do. do. 18 months 440 60 tl.
M'Keati & Van Embtrgh's note, hv
dated November 9,1796, at 60 Bl
days - 115®
Da. Nov.
Nathan Field, Nov. 4, 1796, at
60 days - - 850
John Negui,December 5,1796, at
60 days - - 805 89
Joseph Norman, April 16,1797, at 1
60 days - - 340 as
David Scull, July 18, 1797, « 60 en
days - - - j' (' '
Jobu Perry, January 1,1798, at 6 G
months - -
Do. do. 1 j months J?l jth
Benjamin F. Garrigues, February
21, 1798, at one year - 600
Do. do. 2 years 600 _
Do. do. 3 years 600
Do. do. A. years 600
Wilson and co. note, May 8,1798,
at 30 days - 100 ,
. Row and Simmosis, June 15,179° 0
at j days - - T u
Two Lottery tickets indorsed on the back John
R. Taylor and John Clark. _
There arefome Other Notes, Draughts & Orders
of no use but to the fubferiber.—Any perfoti find
' ing the fame and returning them to Mr. Alexan
der Shiras in Mount-Holly, or to the fubferiber, D
No. 55, North Water street, Philadelphia, shall re
ceive the above reward and no questions asked,
Payment being flopped, they can be of bo use ar
but to the owner. w
JOHN CLARK
I rC
Nov. 1. dtf ar
: United States
: Peniifylvanik Difh'idt. j th
IN parfuUßce of a writ to me directed fro3l the U
honorable Richard Peters, efqr. judge of the
diflriet court of the United States m and for the
[ Penafylvania iiftricl, will be cxpofed to public fab,
: on Walnut fireet wharf, on Tharfday the Bth of
j November nett, at 12 o'clock at noon,
I large new cabk I \ pioces of fail cloth
. X do. worn do. t ship's bell
I fuiill do. do. 7 iron botnd water casks
I cable about s inches A dcnxnft or n-achine ai
I old dr>. 5 do. to press goods when ei
1 coil of cordage loading fl
2 do. of do. nc«r 1 iron c.-anei u
> 2 founding liAen ol one r new flag
hundred and fourteen, 1 do. jack t (
» and fifty fathoms t pennant
I main fail 4 copper kettles and lids
, I fore-top-fail 2 tea kettles
I main-top-fail I Coffee kettle v
1 I jib A small copper pot & lid
I main-top stay-sail 4 compiffes
3 ftudding-l'ails A small anchor j
® 4 under ftuddieg fails 34 calks of rum and about
9 - 1 fun fail 12 calks of sugar.
•' The articles iforefaid being now on board the
brig Sptcialailioß lying in the |>ort of Philadelphia, 1
y and fiiftriA of Pcnnlylvania—The fame having
beew saved from the wreck of the Danish fliip v
Den Godehenfigh: at fia, and libelled again ft lor c
salvage. I
WILLIAM NIGHOLS, Maiftal. t
MaTlhal'a office, Oct 25. r
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. <
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, Wht> has 1
for a tew years past been in the foiuhem States,
has had the effrontery to draw i'everal Bills of Ex- 'f
change on Timothy Pickering, Hfq. Secretary of t
•. State, and mylelf,and by that means has defrauded a
a number of per Cons of their money, deceiving '
them by an exhilution of letters and papers tvith the
names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu y
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
' Shaeffer; to one of thefc papers I find my name j
' fubferibfid, but Ido not know the man ; thefc arc
\ villainous fotgeries! To preirftot further imposition,
I have to request the printers of Newspapers in the 1
United States to publish this for the benaiit of their J
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treafurcr rftbs Unittd States
Trenton. New - 7 I
Oaobrr 2 4 . I? 9« > '
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WJT : «
J?£ IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day j
of August, in the twenty third year of ,
>f the Independence of the United States of J
America, Benjamin Smith Barron, of the said dif- 1
tricl, hath depofite-d in this office the title of a j
„ book the right Whereof he claihis as author in the t
words following to wit : l
41 New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By V«njamin Smith Bar f
5 " ton, M. D.Comfpondent Member of the Socie- (
ra 11 ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, JVfcmber of
lc " the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
ui ' 4 the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of j
a u Bodon, Correfpofed>dg Member of the Maffa- |
" chufettn Historical Society, and Profeflor of
e- " Materia Medica, Natural History and Botany (
a " in the UniverAty of Pennsylvania."
lit In conformity to the a& of the Congr«f« of the ,
United States, intitled « 4 An a3t for t|ie encourage- j
m«nt of learning by securing the copies of mavs,
charts,and bonks, to the authors awd proprietor,
of such copies during the timesthtr.in mentionid.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELL, C:erk f Dift. of Penn'
November a, 1798.
Wanted to pur chafe.
\ PPROVr.D bills on Amsterdam, for which
jLx. calh wiil be gi ,en at the rate of thirty se
ven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Calhier of
the Dank of the Ucited Statei.
September lad, 1798.
N O T I C E,
fH.Vr ths firft Monday of. December next is A <
appsrnu-i for my hearing before a Coart of
CCiVjmon Picas of Aticgtkay Comity, ui the State
of Pei'iufytvania, 011 an application lor the benefit
ot the n&»of chit fl*te for the relief of
ins ilvewt vtahtori, having at September term last
printed i. y petition, with a i'chedttle annexed, of
ail my efWc real, perfoHal and niixt, rights and
credits, to be afligned for the use of my creditors. *» l
ALEXANDER SUMRAjLL, fc
Nov. 2. jt '■»
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of Filbert .Street, between
Eighthind Ninth ltrfet, formerly owCupWd
as the Surveyor Gencr.l'n Office*—Enquire at No.
HI, Chefnut Street,
august IO 605:
GEORGE DAVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of informing
his friends generally, that so soon as the pre
fcnt sickness will admit it, he proposes to offer for Vl
sale, the moll extenfivs collection of * J
LAW BOOKS, *
he evar imported, or that was ever imported tlrta 0 ,
the Uuited States.—The la.e arrivals have brought
him a cumber of extremely valuable and fearcc j.
BOOKS, and those eipedted, will greatly add to a
tJie quantity. \ w
October 11. eodaw j.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Septaraber 11, 1798. f'
The public is hereby informed, that P
am Office of Deposit and Discount will be opened ji
on Mortday next, at the houfic lately occupied by
SivMuti. near the Market House in
Cermantown —where the kuGncfs of this Inftitu-
tion will be tranfafled during the continuance o* j.
the malignant fever how prcvailingin Philadelphia. .
HENRY KUHL, Jffijlant CaJLi
September a a d f,
t;
To be fold or Rented, »
THE fabferiber's house, No. 78, Walnut v
street, with a callar and two stables—Possession or J 1
the house will be given early in November—die '
stables and cellar immediately. 1
n GEORGE MEAD. e
Oilobrr »4, §tf t
: s Canal Lottery, No. 11. d
Considerably more than Half Drawn. ■ h
r, Draws twice a week, every Monday t3° Tuesday
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at c
1 WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
c and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street, .
where cheek books are kept for examination and
registering in this, City of YVaftiington No. 2. j.
and Paterfon Lotteiies and information where t
Tickets may be had in most ps the Lotteries au- t
thorifed by law in any of the States of the r
er Union.
e State or the Wheel, a
e One prize of 10,000 dollars to,ooo {
Five - 4,00® ao,oooy j
if Two 2,000 4iOoo
Nine i,oco 9,000
Nineteeto 500 o.voo
Forty-tour aoo 8,800 '
:s With a full proportion of the one hundred
e and of the fifty dollar prizes—tte price of tick
n ets will soon l ift, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the laftday of drawing.
■gj" Note, the bofrnefs of a Broker duly at 1
tendedto in all its branches it the above'office 1
may 24 <v&stf 1
Is
HAPPY DISCOVERT. •
id certaih Cure fir that alarming and dreadful tJiforder •
The Yellow Fever,
As well as any other dangerous putrid fever, fever and
ague, dnd other 'mvttadtc dad cmpfiatlfdifeafcs, by
the use of ibe
™ POUDRE UNIQUE,
a ' "ITTELL known and patented in Krtgland, France,
'K VV Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
'P where the most aftonijhing cure? have bedr effcS
-0 cd on persons judged by all phyliciam.
In a Treatise printed in Lon lon, on the pfopmies
of thin powder, by T. Seymour, M. D. iateCfcs
— miff to his Majesty, there are stated r.vo hunted
cases, where this nirifVv.ilualilc remedy v<r"v. ( 1'
infallible, ill alt tit/it oj fevirs, ptetirify, blixvty Jiux,
|M iterate rbeumatifms, f iatica, afiepkxi, patalvfic, jet-
Es, jaundice, ringworm, ivmttis in children and in grcii*
x' f'rfms, nvhitei, clrmual lead and Jhmach Ucles" l\pa
tick and ncphretical or Jlone cholic, the lix-js evil, fiur'vj
J( j and the toojl inveterate and complicated venereal disease. It
;1 g isiikewil'e the best preparative for thufmallpox
|, e measles; ol the greatest utility for young ai
u w«ll as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
lid ''^ e- The efficacy of this powder in fevefal of the
ne above difoales has been dilcovercd by chance, and
ire '* las b een in the yellow fever lift year, by Mr.
, n _ Mahy, who cured "fevera'l by adnuniHeritijj only
he of 'he said p'otuden, and loft not a Angle ro
ir tient which he undertook to cure", as pfdVed and
attcfted by the here annexed certificates, whose ori-
\ tt ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella shop,
A#. IJI, corner of Chefnut and Fourthfireets, the on
ly place where these powders are to bs had, with
—• proper dire*3ions for the use of them Price t-wt
: dollars.
The ufcfulnef? and certainty of this rem»dv be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
V person wilhing to be provided with those powders,
of will please to apply very soon, as ths quantity at
of hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a
if- long time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
a ported, the fncret remaining only ip the hands of
fi e the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu
nicated to, or difcovrred by any oth*r person.
N. B In the yellow and"putrid fevers, this pow
lr der must betaken th»lecond, or at lsaftthe third
• c- (lay.
°f We the fubferibers, durirg the late fickseCt in
°f this city, having taken the y ilow fever, applied to
°f Mr. Mahy sot his medical assistance, we do here
■a" by certily, that by a certain powder, called the
°f Pofdre Unique, we wGre perfe£lly recovered from
n y the said fatil sickness, and from an etprt-ience of
the happy »fFe<sls of the above most valuable mcdi
cine, consider it our duty to make the fame known,
» c " sot the beuefic of our fellow citizens.
p 3 > Margaret Jones,
Mylus O'Connor,
*•*» Jefre Turner,
ln Chrilen Rebecca Dow,
Catherili Apple,
Ann Grover,
WiHiam Bills,
; c j, David Williams, carpiater,
p e _ William T Oonaldfon, mail-maker.
. £ Mr. M«liy's well known PUifler, for all kind of I
wounds and fpres, to be had at the above direc- 1
tion, No. 131, Clicfnu: firaet,
august 8 lawtf
This Day is Published,
AND FOR 4 A I L BY J. F F. NNO, t tg,CH UIET
AN ADDRESS '
'lo the People of Maryftmd,
ON the origin, progress a»d prefta* ltate of mc
French aggretftoo, with a (ketch of the infamous ■
attempts ta degrade the Qover*ment of the United | )Q ]
t>tate>,and feme reflectiontoa the late proceedings .
iii Cor.greft; written the lilt of April in the pre«
Cent year, by » Member of the Houle of Reprefen- J""
UtlfN. § jttlK " » ' '
_ _ ' (IU
FLOUR FOR SALE **
By the Sutfcribers,
Deliverable at any of |>ort» on the Dela>
ware—who Uavf alio on baud at their (lores, a (
| quantity of Bar Ifon, Pork and Corn—Letters by
tho poll Will be attired to.
Levi HoUingsworth Iff Son.
FOR SALE,
SALTS BURT. , ™
; A LARGE and well improved farm, centain-
X\. upwards of twenty-five hundred acres of Is- ,
r vel fertile land> remarkably well adapted to grass, J
and every kind of grain; there are now ods hun
dred acres of Timothy meadow on it, perhaps not vi 2
excelled, from which, I have cut this year between
5 one hundred and eighty, and two httndred tons of
1 hay; upwards of three hundred acres mors of this
J land may be converted into meadow, equal to that
0 already made, the greater part of which may be
watered at a small expence. There are on this
land, a commodious two story <iwel!iag-houfe,
completely finifhed, with ten rooms and a passage,
eight of tHe rooms hare fire places; a portico in
1. front, fifty feet in length, and eight wide; a large
t paled garden, a well of excellent water in the yard"
also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with
Iheds at the fides and ends, fufficient to hold fixt£
1 keap of black cattle, a well conflru&ed stable, fuf
-11 ficient to hold twenty Horses; with every other
building that may be convenient or ufeful for a
' brrt' family; upwards of thre« hundred apple trees
• (jvft beginning to bear) of cholen grafted fruit,
with a number ottherry, pear, <|atnce, anil dame- .
son trees, up-va'mot two thoui-ftd bearin;',
trees. About one fourth of th* land isch_\. Ed, and
under good fence ; tlu pasture lands are well taken,
t with red clover and other valuable grass. The re
r mainder is in woods and generally well timbered.
e The whole is well watered, having several court ant
springs; and two dreams running through differ
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a small coun
try grift mill, aad a saw mill. The purcnaTer can
- have immediata polTiflion, and may be accommo
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with
horses, black cattle, flieep, hogs, and every necef
„ fary farming utensil. Salisbury is lituated in ex
{ cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy,
is twenty-fix miles by measurement from Alexan
' dria, about twenty miles from Potomack bridge at
j the Little Falls, and not more than twinty-five
f?om the city of Washington, and on the p*& road R
• lrom Alexandria to Winchester. A small part of J
e the purchase money, will be required in hand; one, f '
" tw®, and three years credit will be given for the P c
e remainder. t0
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give
any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the
0 fitiiation of this plaes. For further particulars ap- dc
°\ ply ta thf fubferiber on the premises. w
o SAMUEL LOVE. fu
o Virginia, Fairfax county e(J
s September 14, 1708. law. cc
° ADVERTISEMENT, te
Q m
e ''ITTHEREAS Cvmmi*o tf Co. late ol
t \ VV the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have as
afligned over all their effieiis, rtal, perlonal and _
mixed, to tha iubferibers, for the benefit of all
e their creditors, who fl.all fubferibe the said assign V'
tnent within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREEY GIVEN, to all persons c;
who art to the said estate, that they ara
required to make immediate payment of -their res- *■'
r pecHve accounts, to Jle Afligtees, at their office,
No. 62, Dock freet, ill failure whereof ailium 1 '
will he inlHtuted for the recovery of fudx debts as t!;
, are not discharged accordingly. p
John Travis, '
John %»Mngm r : 4 I
c, j times x aylor, °
e, Cornelius Comrgys
i- angUft f8 rmi'ftll) p
» For Sale,at the Stores ot the Sub- t;
fcribcrc, on Walnut street "Wharf,
J 195 casts of pails aflprted
ao biles ef fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
*' 53 cafksjellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porwr, 6to 14 doz. each £
t ion I Madeira W.nts
India market )
Tcneriffe do. in pip
)x f?ld jPort do. in hhds. '
w Empty Cliret Uotties
; r 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimitie -, Jrluflineto &c.
Ie aflur'ted for the Weft-India market
,j 4, 10, inch-cables and to coils of corilag'e
r . Writing fiates, ink flands and prcfles
Jy 20 purcheons Jamaica mm
t . 1 bale feamine; twine
1( J 160 bundles sheathing paper
'i- Nicklitt tzf Griffith.
'?• april 7 tuth&f.tf
"h TEN DOLLARS IiEWARIX
wt "r>ESERTED from my Detachment at Borden
-1 / town this day, a Marine, by name George
ie- Rodmq'n, a Native of lrelai.d about 25 years of age
ay fivi fee* eight or nine inches high, dark compte
rs, tion, black hair tird; black eyes well mad* and
at quarrelsome, when in liquor is fond of singing—had
a on a blue leaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot.
n- ton Stockings, round Hat, and had i-nler liisPan
of taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
u - Whoever apprehends and f;nd» tUe said Defcr
tsr to the Matine Camp, fliall receive tbe above
nr. Rsward.
rd r\a t. ® ? HENRY A WILLIAMS,
Oflober 11,. 798 £ Lt. Marine,
i« FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
he Benjamin Monteith Ma(Ur, I^2 u ' ra »
>m CONSISTING OF
ol' 945 of Cocoa
di- 4003 lb. of Flora Indigo
rn, 210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages ©f Goat Skins
By IVillivgs (tf Frauds.
No. Eleventh ilre&t.
July 2: Htf -
Xiadras and Ventapanlem 1
HANDKERCHIEFS, I j
Searfaukers and Carrad&rrics, i
of the ueweft and most approved pattrrm,entitled '•
' o j I to the drawback, jufl received,
I av.i tor saCk nv
"* - A/ex. J. Miller Of Co. [
f No. 64, South Front street.
may iS, t
SAMOEL PARKER,
BRASS m BELL FOUNDER.
No. ijy, Mulberry (lre«t,
CON fINUES to carry on the brafsfounderJ
bujintft as ulual, where Ills former cufto-
mers au<3 the public may be fupphed with call.
' ing* for machines to any pattern, rudder braces,
.. bolu, &c tor lbips.
It may be proper ro add, that, as it has been
reported he had declined the bufiueii, S. P. take*
this means of informing the public that he it
_ nuking arrangements to carry 11 on Itill more
extenflvely, hoping thereby to comply prompt
' ly with lilt h orders as he may have to execute
i£S* Bslls, of any size, cafli far churches and
a other inditutiofis ; printers rules, Ac.
. Qftohcr 26 eo jt.
Pub&c Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Proposals oiidar feajedcovers, w ill be
received 011 the behalf of the United States
■ontil thc twentieth day of Oflobjr next, by Jo
nathan JacWori, Elq. at Boflon, Maflachufctts,
Fetich Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva
, j nia, and John Swann, Esq. at Baltimore, J-ft
-5) j ryljnd,. for supplying the following articles of
j cloathing, for the armv of the United States
it viz -
FOR INFANTRY.
jf 8,448 Hats,
15 Serjeant Coats
lt dhto veils
f 1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls
j,ogß ditto da. linen ditto
[' 2,016 ditto (hirts
264 Musicians coats
, 8 7,680 Privates coates
i" 7,»944 ditto veils
]" Is>BBB ditto woollen overalls
f- 31,776 ditto fliirts
:r 33»79» pairs of Socks
a 33)7" f»Ws 6f SiOes
s 8,448 ltocksof black IcatKsr
t, 8,448 stock Ciafps
. 8,448 blankets.
4 FOR CAVALRY.
i, 6 Musicians coats
26 Serjeant coats
1 26 ditto vetis 1
it 104 ditto (hirts
348 Privates coats
1- 354 ditto veils
n 1416 ditto {hirts
760 pair of Leather breaches
' l 760 pair of lickings
» 760 pair of boots
380 Stocks of black leather
f ' 380 Stock ciafps
380 Blankets.
1 ift. Every article (hall be made of materials,
i( j equally good, and in form, or fjlhioa, conform
ably to patterns for the fame, sealed with the
c seal of the War-Office, and which will be de
poQted with the several gentlemen, empowered
to receive the propofils, as above mentioned.
, e 2d. Sworn Infpedlora (hall be appointed on
ie the pvt of the United States, to examine and
p. determiee upon the several articles a fore I a id,
when the fame fball be ready for delivery, with
full power to every article, which shall not
equal, in goodneii of materials, or to be
conformably to, the faihion of the (landard pat- 1
tern for the fame; and no allowance (hall be
made, for any article which fiiall be rejeiled by
therti, for the caules aforefaid.
0 3d. Th« proposals muftfpecify the number of
articles, and their kinds, which the party is
willing to furnifn, together with, tiie lowed
n prices for immediate payment in money, a .id al
so t£e prices, on rhelongeft term, or terms of
■* credit
rß One third of each, and svery of the several
.(_ kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
0 the fifteenth day of December, ore third on
n . the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
as third on the firll day of March next; and the
public will not be cor.fidered as bound to receive
any of the aforpfaid articles of cloathing, which >
ihall not be ready for jnfpe<slion, and delivery,
"8 at the periods agreed upon.
4th. The cloathing aforefaid will l>e received
n the several Hates, at the pi ces, and in the
T proportions following, viz. One third part of
j_ th« whole at Springfield, Maflachtiietts, one
other third at Philadelphia, flaeof renplvlva
iia, or at Laml erton, (late of N'ew-Jerfey, and
6a» third at Baltimore, Maryland.
sth. No contrail will be tirade, for a lefi
number of each of the al'orefa-id articles of
cloathing, than is rcqnlfite Ft/r a company, viz.
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats
4 ditto veils
16 ditto (hit-ts
lie. 1 Muficim Coat
58 Private coats
ige 59 ditto veils
zj'6 ditto (hirts
63 ftoeks
6,; stock ciafps
126 pair of leather breeches
126 pair of Hackings
f 126 pair of boots
FOR THE INFANTRY.
CII
- 70 Hats
ec- 4 J'UQ vests
ind 8 ditto woollen overalls
•lad 8 ditto linen ditto
:ot. 16 ditto (hirts
an- 2 Musicians coats
64 Private coats
fcr- 66 ditto veils
°ve 131 ditto woolen overalls
132 ditto linen ditto,
'• 264 ditto Shirts
280 pair of Shoes,
» v 70 Stocks,
J 70 Stock Ciafps,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M«HEN*Y,
Secretary of IVtr.
War I>epartment, 7
2iil Sept. 1798. 5
Ten~dollars reward.
t. "pvESERTED lad night, a fccond time, from
Lf the Marine Camp, Da-.id Lifer, a fife .
He had when he went away, a plain Hue jacket and
veft,light-blueovcrails, around hat.vhich hadtxe/i
bound with yeHpw, and which he had ripped off
, in his fiill defirtion, and a pair of new flioe«. he is
tied a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, find;- hair
fallow complexion and a nitdi in his upper lip
His back is ftlll fore froi" a flogging he got a few
days ago He may l>a difcovcred by his fifeing,
as he piay's eitremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Ccm. of the
OSoher 17. Marju; Corps.
[Volume XIV»JuJl imported in pips William Penh, A
miable and Jean,from Lcr.dc,n,
A qnanti'y of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb."i with Sails
CaTmiaile*, I» lbs. J suitable.
Mufquet?, MufqHe?oon»,Cutlafles and") ea
I'Ulcls, 'or (hips use,
■ R .1«d barr':le I'Ji:as Fowling Pieces, l § 3"
anj Herfcm .;i's I'iflo'.s, f
4? ,oco Flict3, c iicfly (or mulkets, in j £"
~ j «
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in
Light Cavalry Swrrds in Cases
Saores, Swords and Cutlasses, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortment—l:or -ale by
Thomas £s* Jno. Ketland,
. Philad. O-Sto'jer 25.
J AMES & RICHARD SMI IH,
# 7
HAVE this !ar returned from the country to
their SI ORE, No. 54, South Front-ftre#t,
■where they heve for sale, as usual, a and ge
neral alTortment of European and Eaft-lrdia
DRY GOODS,
mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuflomers by applying will find almoll
every article generally imported, and at as law
prices for calh or credit,as they can be had else
where.
N. B A few Cafe* of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
eonfignment, to be fold by the cafe.only.
Phi!«deluhia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RiCCIVrD A* INVOIC* OF
Choice C hefhire Gloucefter
cheese.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]]
100 Boxes'of Window Glass,
Of various fizrs, per the Jane, from London.
They have also for Salt,
20a Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
ASD A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. & Samuel IV. F'tjher.
November 1 dtf
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now hading at South jlreet wharf,
TOR SALE Br
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO AISO OFFERS FW SALE,
BRANDY, 11! and 4th proof
Madeira and fort WINES, &c. &c.
Nev - 1 dtf
Juit Arrived, ~
In the Brig Eliaa, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing as Walnut Street wharf, '
Fourth proof Brandy iri Pipes.
Brimftcn?.
Anaflortrrient of valuable DRUGS,
consisting or
Opiim, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, '
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c. h
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergamot t
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S J,—ltalian luteflrings
Satins >
Crapes
Umbrellas °
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars, h
Claret in enfes >0
Ci.a Madeira Win« of the firft quality. n
JAMES YARD.
November 3 5 _
ISR AEL PLEASANTS & Co.
No. 74, South Second street.
Have relumedfrom the country ; andkaQe for
SAi E, as usual, a large alTortment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the lad vessels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally suited to the prefnnt and ap
proaching season _
They are detcrnfined to fell off low for
cafli or Ihor-t credit.
Note. All pet son« indebted to th» late firm of
Samuel Pltufanit & Sans, are defireil to make im ' s
mediate payment to tha fubfcriliers. . 5(
Israel Plea/ants & Co.
Nov- » d 4 W _
FRUITS, WINES, &e. 1
MALAGA WINE, in butts ' a J
ditto, in quarter casks ch
BRANDY, in butts and pipes j i r ,
SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
MUSCATEL do. in boxes
BLOOME do. in do.
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks F,
OLIVE OIL i-i boxes of 12 bottles
BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in f
boxes, See. N)
FOR SALE Br ap
PETER KUHN,
No. 178, North Market flreet.
Nov. a diot
The Subicribers
Are now Landing—For Sale,
St. Croix Rum —Muscovado Sugar .
Red Port Wirte, 1
la pipc«, hoglheads and quarter Casks. at
Two thousand bushels of Salt, ftr
Eighteen Iran Six pounders' proved at Woolwich.
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
November 3 diot
Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields. ce
THE firfl are »tqueftcd to render their Ac- T1
counts igainfl him, made up to the 13d Jo
day of August, 1797, the date of his Align
ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made. ~
The lalt to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds', before the firft day of December enjuing.
Any that remain unfcttlcd after that period, will /
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law, I
for recovery. Dt
DAVID M. SHIELDS, Ei
Attorney, (in fa6i) to the
Aflignee* and Trustees of
J. Shields.
Cheftiut-ftreet, No, »a.
November I, 1798. dtf.
FOR SALE, T,
ArtRM or. the road leading to State IfTand, 1
within four and an half miles of Philadelpiiia,
eontaiiinfi 4,S*crcj in vhe highest slate of cultivation P°
—sgatcs of which is meadow, the remainder up- *' e
land. ! here ateon the premifej,a new frame Houlc
and Barn, with an excellent kilchen garden, contain- vo
ing a great number of fruit trees. —I mmcdiaie poflef- or
Sonwillbejuan. hi,
For terms apply to
Thcaas W. Francis, tci
*bv. 3. , J
I'he Custom House is re-1
movedfroin Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the usual place. !
Novell.b«r 3 5
REMOVAL.
THE oUBSCHIBERS-Jiaviremovsd their Office
from the corner of f levrnth Street, to their former
Counting Hcnfe, fJc u, Henn Street.
Millings £? Francis.
November 3 §
Samuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Price,
No. 31, Gheinvt strut,
Are now opening a very extensive n/fortment o J
DRr GO UDI
( Suitable to the present season,
t0 Which they have just received per
it, Ships Fa&or, Boyne.Otfego & Independence,
e- (via New Torij from LONDON,
A ko, per (hips William Penn & Amiable from
, London,and (hips Sally ar.d Thomas from
g, Liverpool,
"" Which thiy will fell on very low terms for
,ft cajb or approved notes, viz.
w Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
c" cloths licoes
Plain it. fancy coatings 7-8 common and chintz
a Plain and ftripad calfi- furnitures
meres \ very large quantity of
f Swanfdo wns ciintzti
Rose and duffill blanket! rur{.le and chintz fltawls
Red and yellow flannels t.inmi and lawn pocket
FMe Welch flannels 1 andkerchiefs
j- Carpets and carpeting Camels' hair lhawls
Jeancetts & tabby cords a very large alTortment of
Velveteens £c velveretts ribbonds
] Thickfetts BritiQiplain checked,llri-
Callin'ancoes, durants & pedand tambour'd muf
jeant lins of all descriptions
'• Silk, cotton, and worded Colored bordered lhawls, .
hose a great variety ,
Cotton, callicoe, & twill 5-4 and 6-4 conjeverams j
' checks and bett«llees
Dimities India bo®lc&j«conet mnf
3- 4 and 7-8 dowlafs lins
r, Damafh table linen Laces and edgings I
4-4 and 6-4 fliectings Black and patent lack t
- Irlfh liner s Lace veils and figured c
Ginghams cloaks r
r Banflannoes Pulongs and fattins i
A very large qnantity ol Persians and farfanets |
Silk modes f
And a variety of other articles. f
Nov. 3 tu.th fa.im
forTsaleT
siT THIS OFFICE, |j
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in a
French, entitled a History of c
The AdfFiiniftration of the French n
Finances, fe
DURING THE TEAR 1796. d
Also, An Historical and Political View of the w
AHminiftration of the French Republic, duritg I 1
he year 1797, —of the causes which produc
e d the la
Revolution of the 4th September— 1
And of the reVults of that Revolution- S
FRICR I collar EACH.
These two political tradls, are from the pen
of the celebrated d'lvernois.and contain a thou
sand iuterefling disclosures of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the different ITfurpers who
have reign#d in France during the latter stages
(Of the horrible Rr volution now pending in that
miserable and depraved country. *
Nov. 3. $ J
Pkinting Work,'
Of Every Kind\ a ,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gazette of the
United Stages,
OS. 13. dtf. F<
— ed
7he Subscriber's Office ov
Being REMOViiO from the COUNTRY, -
is now OPEN at the USUAfc PLACE, No.
56, North Fourth Str- bt.
SAMOEL CALDWELL -/
November!. -td £
A LI. PERSONS having- any legal demands a- ?°
gainst the estate of William Perki*,, deee..f«d, ,ts
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are f
requeued to furnifh thiir accounts properly au- 1 u
thenticaled, and all persons indebted to said estate
are r.-qjefled to make payment to the fubferibsr in lor
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr. _
o<9obcr 31ft, 1798.
—
To Be Let, I na
For Six Months, from the firjl of Novem-
ber next, Co
A COMMODIOUS three story brick hoofe, N<
w;th extensive back buildings situated Fri
No. 153, South Secoad Street.—For terras rcr
j apply to Ba
JAMES LYLE.
South Seventh, near Chefnut Street.
Prober »9 dtf
To Be Let, ~~~
And immediate poffljfton Given,
A COMMODIOUSThreeStory BrickHoufe
-t A- with convenient back buildings, situated j H t
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut w h
streets.—For terms apply to et
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. »o, South Fourth Street. No
Oifloher 19 I
To Let,
THE house, No. 78, North Se-
cßiid street, with or without a (lore and liable—
The house is large and convenient ; enquire of
John Litle.No 40, North sixth street.
Oftober jr. w&fa tf foil
— —— Sto
TO BE LET Lai
And immediate pojfejjion given, if'
A LARGE convenient, w«il finifhed honfe, '
No. *r>, High street, lately occupied by
Doflor Wirtar, with coach house and flables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF.
No. 168, High flreet.
_N° V - a. dtr 1
Jojin Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER. 7t"
RESPEC fJ-ULLY informs his Friends and er 1
the Public in general that he carries on his A
btifinefs at South Second-Jtrcet, nearly op
polite the Merchants Coffee hoyfe wh»re gen- e °'
tlemtn m.-y be supplied in the neatest and best thi!
manner—r.c a fibres ;hofe who may pleale to fa- *
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on liis fide fhail be wanting to render --
_ him worthy of their encouragement. (
N. B. Orders secei*ed will be punflually at- V.
tended to. me
ncvembcr j S '
J
at POST OFFICE,
to Philadelphia, 2<)th o Sober, 1798.
LETTER'S for the British Pack
et (for Falmouth) will be received
at this office until Tuesday the 6th
November, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
N. D.—The inland postage to
Ts:w-Tork must be said at this office.
Communications^
Mr
AMIDST the mass of intelligence re
ceived by the recent arrivals from Europe,
~ there are t<o or three articles, though of a
trifling ind personal nature, wiiich havecon
ftderabiy excited my aftonifhmentl allude
, lo those which announce the appeaiance in
t.J Paris, of the famous Polijh General; his
sentiments with regard to the American go
ks. vernraent and its admim'ftratcrs, and his ex- I
traordinary connedtions with the powers that
be in France.
During his late residence in America, lie
id- ex^l^l " a F'&ure which seemed more to
call for commiseration, than to awaken fuf- '
picion or apprehenfiun. Mangled, weak
Afd emaciated, he was confined to his room;
enjoying of life no oiher pleasure than what
was administered by the friendly society of N
those who either through pity or curiolity, 1
visited him. Even in this confinament,
I however, he probacy experienced the high j
i happiness of which hi» pride was fufcep
tib'e, being politely attended by every dif- \
tinguifhed Member of the Federal Govern
n, ment; by molt of the ladies as well as '
ed tlemen of this city and New-York. This 3
£ view of his fituftior, contribu ed, no doubt, C
u to accelerate the pecuniufy grant which Con-
grefs, during that session. made him in con- t
fideration of his services in our revolution
in Willing to attribute to all men the faireft C
le motives for their conduft, 1 at that time,
a- disregarded the fufpici ns which were often °
e, l.i'ted at his intentions; believing <liat he '
V had returned hither to enjoy in peace, the °
decaying remnant of a life glorionfly devoted ,
■8 to danger, in the cause of liberty. In this
I was further confirmed, by frequently hear- r
iog him exprcts sentiments of regard for the !
American government, and a veneration for ,
if' the ll'uftrious charaders who conduaed it. V
; s Hence has proceeded my astonishment and
:- indignation!— Hence I cannot priflibly give °
credit to the articles above alluded 1 to, with o
- out assigning to the conduft of the illuf
i- trious General, the odium of the fouled dti-
i. plicity as well as the bhekeft ingfatitu ie.—
e Painful as it is to concur in this femur °
. there are many circumftai ces which up
, recolledlion, arise in confirmation of tbe dif- '
graceful charge. Thcf I (hall freely com- 3
municate t my country, h pingthereby to
i, j f ur '.M'h " ekif to th? de eciion of tho e, who
fecietij MicUj'-a.ik. a jot the overthrow, the
disgrace of the American government.
Amongtl the mod intimate and frequent 6
visitors of this incognito General, (for such
he may betern.d) «er< t!,e Hon. T. Jef
feifoi>, vie. P.efide. tof the United States, r '
f the Hon. Mason, SenatoV, Dr Logan, °
Judge M'Kean, Thomas Mifflin, and .ii fe
members of both houses of Congress who l
honorably distinguish themselves in tradac- l
, >ng: the government of the United States, 1
and in extolling the comlu& of the imn:acu- a '
late Direftory of France H Logan, aa is •
hinted m one of the articles referred to
above, in going to France, did no doubt W
' follow the advice of Kofciufko ; having had
isveral long conferences with liim. tbe few j"
; days preceding his departure.* Jefferfon's c
connexion with him was as fingtil r, as I
fear, it will prove difgraceful. Tfic Gene- "i
ral had repeatedly given out, that
posed visiting Virginia to take the benefit
; the baths. On the night of the 4th 0/
May, after a hafly vilit from the vice-Pre.
. Went, his baggage was ordered to be packed
up, "and early next morning, accompanied pr
by his Excellency, (who, by the bye, at that ga
time, was deserting his duty in the Senate) ro
departed in % close coach, for (as was sup elj
posed) Virginia. Of the former, nothing •pe
had been heard until - it was known be was ca
in France ! What may add perhaps, to the Fi
occafioned by this develope- wi
ment, is, that he was net attended thither ga
by his very courteous and distinguished com- ey
panion!
In the fame gallican articles he is repre- th
fented as having a fettled disgust for the A
merican government and its griateft orna- foi
ments : this disgust was so feverJy pointed gu
at President Adams aud General Washing- tai
ton, as to induce him to refufe a vilit from Fe
either! Wonderful indeed!— His not re- th
ceiving a visit from these diftinguilhed cl a- g U
rafters however is ow ing to far other motives an
than his own aversion; the former never be- ess
ing deli rows of such a gratification, and the am
latter, being at Moi:nt Vtrnon, would not I g U
am sure, undertake a journ y co behold the go
Ihattered rcmaants of G neraT so much his mc
inferior both in vim \i i hqneft fame ! ret
—His General!'. ,"p, i , L ,- jn diug his dif. ha!
gufl, condefe • •'■ d to accept the vilit of chi
Col. Pickering! And why?—" L'argent, , „a!
beaucoup de Pargent " c;
Thus it is perceived that after coming to fro
this country, and by a shew of I am alrooft t uc
tempted to fay, unreal misery, exciting from cat
our government a liberal mark of its muni- to
ficence, he has returned so Europe, and ear
ly commenced the honest work ofcalumnia- Th
ting his benef.iQcrs t Thus it is evident that th<
while enjoying the honours which our wor- rei
thieft citizens heaped upon him, he was col- dei
leagueing with the direst enemies of our Ch
peace ; by his councils afli.iing incendiaries, am
'and by his influence encouraging treason! th;
And thus may we behold in a charafter that ,me
has heretofore attcaded our admiration, an wfi
odious aflemblage of the meanest paffioas as
and vices.
—7—; g ei
bince writing the above fcntencc I have ob- ms
served it intimated iu priot, that th« trio confiftine att
o Dr. Logan, Vojncy, and Ko ciufko departed dal
for Europe m the fa».e vefTel. Thi, i, tot i rapro . *
bah t: It is cerium, however,that every eflTort was <
Blade t° fniunglc this eontralund car&o, as ca;l, inc
character left the t it}- at diilant periods, and cr.uH ho
have formrd the below New-Ciftle.
" Let every Man t,joj hh Own opkm »
798* I HAVE no objeaion 5 but let him
ick- grumble at the cnfequence,.
[ve d think it|pn be a finall moment'
: afessHsa
' to inherent tiadit to his * d
free, deprive h^tt
forcible mea« s . F a A an H „,r ' *
=
.orted to. Truth is progressive anH \
ever obstinate he may be, time and exp^"
, „ ence will bring Condon. ButlhonM '
■£. *«£"'• ,h " —~ «"• "S. wis
of a !p, r - tan m °, Ve hIIB from hts purpose
con " Il Y 33 C u ßraaer ' »«inD
ludc fa 1; bu let me not be mifunderfc*dJ t £
:e in ? 0t J?" that Peffecution ought never
h ' s which?* th , belleve there are cases in
go- Wh,ch " f ,s t! ' e onl y «medy, and the only
: ex- " e "" ° f prf f erT,n S « ur peace ; but the»
that , hc b J°. W °»gWt to be firm and decisive, and
llruck by the mighty hand of truth.
, lie „ r " Let ev "V M,n enjoy his own opinion,"
:to 7 aß an 5 x P f reffion d-cpt by a Democrat in
fuf- thecoilr{V ofa ™nverfation on the ar:eft 0 f
, cak Adams, printer of the Chronicle at Boston
3 m; J W3S mUcil f urprif«d at this liberality of
.•hat 1 dld n(,t believe men of that
of ■Hjarafter were poffefTed of fueh ; and for
• the moment thought wi<h him, that the
rnt, f, rre r £ aS " n J u B "t vvhen I understood
gh J. Ut thu Boston «' ; " r. not only earned
;ep- 1S own °P' n,on '. the free exercise of it
dif- J*? l { but used it as a ve
?rn- j leditio i { that he had long conti
■en- n u «J ln ** affifted by the mod
'his V"r P a newspaper, c f spreading
ib difcuntents, and exciting disturbances; a „d
on- uur now violated a .law, fanftioned
on- 5V C Cr - " 'r e d « le S atcd authority;
n I thought it a cafe conformable t* my rule
reft exception and the p ■rfecuticn proper.
I have frequently heard it fajd, .. Wc
ten' ° Ug t0 make al kwances—.ve are all liable
he to e f. r f ror ~ and education, and the mounts
the °, - U r " 2Ve great lnflllenc " upon us." To
ted t,lat fclf preservation is
his r 0 natl>re 5 a "d therefore, when
ar ." T e feemen » wh ° bave all tire advantages of
[he tree ei-.quiry, eppofing the obviom good of
for jj a 5 and > as we ma y believe, from
the basest motives, refiftar.ee becomes a
ad d ity, and not to exercise it would be a
crime.
ith O ' : ' US IS . {' tuated at present th: United
, States ; wall many powerful externa! ene-
V,,. I " lcS '. and man y domeftie traitors. These
_ ' V!rtuou s struggles of our government are
! o : | . -dto; and politicliy, (ht has begun
( J t -'-o - - The consequence is, that a migh
|,f. L) ' c '," r: " r '! ra,red among the ix-aljlavcs ;
m- ? r ft- W an ers tbe punifhVncnt which
tQ justice infl.es, is held forth in their vehicles
ho fuffer''* 0 "' 38 " lUV ' ng the h ° noUr t0
i ne present enfis is big with important
■nt e l e ' Us 5 and ° Ur col,ntr y requires the most
ch a s' f VP el ; rl " JM of *very g,od federal,lt—
ef, t on 'y can 'ave her from impending
es. rU ' n ' Bci "S as >' ct > a rmall people ; spread
ln ovor a va " extent of territory v having ig.
' lorance, prejudice and wiokedncfo, brought
among us by emigrants from Europe ; "we
became the more liable t» commotions ; and
thtrelare ought to guard with vigilance our
' aear.bou.hth^ppinefs.
is • }^ ret,dorn opinion is
t0 n S bv the conftitujion and laws. But
when ttiij is.abused, by mifreprefentitions,
and partial rcprefentauons X of truth ;by the
:w P r °P J S ation °f malicious and feajidalous
,'s ' d ™°°ds j candour, I think will allow, that
j 1! we admit every man to enjoy his opini
on, we Ought, at leal!, to reftraio him from *
the licentipHs use of it.
fit A.
of ■"
• f - ENVOY LOGAN.
<-' dßy extraas from Paris papers, nojy
sd printed in America, it appears that Dr. Lo
ut gan has drawn to himfelf the eyes of Eu
r) rope and America. When he left Philad
p- elphia. there were many jull causes to fuf
ig ■ pea that he was sent to France on a politi
as cal million, iri the charaaer of agent for the
ie French faaion in '.he United States, Who
e- will doubt it, when he knows that Dr. Lo
er gan has had frequent conferences with Tal
n- eyrand, the minister of foreign affairs, and
has been honourably entertained by Merlin,
e- the President of the Direflory.
It was long ago afceitained, andhas been
a- for some time generally believed, that a re
gular intercourse was kept up between cer
-- tain leaders of the opposition party to the
m Federal government, and the condndlors of
e- the Fresch Republic—That there was a re
a- gular co operation of the French faaion here
ess and the French rulers there, to deilroy and
e- effcntially change the present conftitutiou,
•e and to put the affairs of America under the
I guidance of men devoted to France. Can
»e («w any per/on whatever, who has given the
is moil cursory attention to political occur
' rentes, helitate to believe that fnch a faction
f- has txifted, and at this moment that thei?~
chief is usurping the executive powers of the
t, nation. We are informed under the Paria,
head of news, that Dr. Logan is an envoy
0 from the Americans who avow their grat -
ft tudeand friendfliip to France ; and that h#
m carried with him letters from T. Jefferfon
to Merhu or Talleyrand.
1 - Netd it be asked by what authority has
a- 1 homas JefFerfon presumed to interfere in.
at the management ow intercourse with fo
r- reign nau'ons. Ht- is yet but Vice Prefix
c f nd i a urur P> n g the funflions of the
ar Chief Magistrate, he has given a proef of
s, ambition—the ruling paflion of his heart—
t.iat cannot soon be forgotten His^etire
" . ment from-the office of Secretary of State*
which has been rejsrefer,ted by L'* friend.
19 as an evidence of his humility, will no lon
ger be miliaten by any, not even by the
j. most charitable of mm, who are ready to
ig attribute the fnolt'lufj/icious aaioHs to lau
•d dable motiVts. That anfcipilion of thefu
prerne forcer of theftate, while it mark 3 his
t,. inordinate third of power, fbews that the
,{l bounds of conftitutio*.: aTe vain barriers
I him.Mr. Jeffrlo'.i's i-itimaiy with D. L ><_; in
—their frequent communication? nref iauit»
kis deputirc—:t tiep'rture fudd-. n, and al
mo!t uuaccou table—a"depart tire in the fame
VeITH ihat carried Kofcitifko. Volney, ftc.
hi' reeep'iorl at Part 3 by Talleyrand and
Merlin—carry ai irrefiftable convi&ion that
he wa* well a.inoutieed, and recommended
from America. I'-.is Dr. Logan, it is true,
il t«e faic person with whom Mr. Monroe,
while mmifter at Paris corresponded ; but
this circusnftancralonecould not have obtain
ed for him an admittance to the President of
tbe dircttory of the bad nation—He must
have had other credentials—From whom
could they have been obtained ? From
none but the leaders ef the French faftion.
Is it not time for the people to difmits these
leaders—such as Jefferfoi, Gallatin, Tare
well, and Lyon, from their confidence and
service ? Or will they countenance a&s of
usurpation upon the sovereign authorities ?
Will tkfey trust power to men whj, not
content with their legitimate (hare, though
great and far above their desert, are graip.
ing that which has never been confided to
them—are undevtak ng'to enndaft the af
fairs of the United State 3, without th;
lawinl will of the people, and in deroga
(ion of th? c.mtlitutc-d authorities ? Aut
Ctfir, ant nullus— Cefar, or nobody is th;
motco of fvtry tyrant —Hence the cmbaffy
of Look, to it people of America,
and, by times, lake heed !
M \ RCUS.
[£•>/. Mir.-]
tlji£ 3>ap'S
NEW-YORK, November j.
It is 1 little reniatkable, that the French
officer who was commissioned to lead the
Pope, stripped of his Imperial purple, from
Rone to a place of obfeurity, <fas named
Cahin The Devil, in this cafe, co^fuma
ting the work which Piety began.
We learn with great fatisfaftion that th"
Legislature of Vermont is decidedly federal.
One hundred and fix members oppofs the
feeble t ffovts of a contemptible minority, and
expiring fatSion, and complete the northern
phalanx. The unanimity exhibited, and ef.
pecially of lite, by the dates' of New Hamp.
(hire, MaflachuGetts, Rhode-Island, Connec
tictit and Vermont, in support of our go.
vernment, mull fill with joy every true A
merican bosom ; flafli convl&ion on every
unprejudiced and uncorrupted mind, and fa
tisfy every foreign foe a:id domestic traitor,
that their dtjigns against our independence
and honor, are as mpotent as they are diabo
lical.
The Direflory, charmed with human mi
sery, elated with recent fticteffes, and deem
ing themselves the arbiters of fate are fad
accelerating the ruin of their own country
—their banquet will hereafter be the confu
fion and diftref# of their own citizens , their
music the tremendous groans of an expiring
republic : already having palled their splen
did raeredian and abandoned the virtue ne
cessary to their exlftence, they will sudden
ly be involved in darkness, and the hour
uneXpeftly approach, when France, like
Imperial Rome, (hatl be left to stalk with
melancholy afpe£t, amongst the ghosts of
perilhed nations.
The General AfTembly of Connecticut
have concurred with the resolution of Mas
sachusetts, proposing an amendment to the
Conftitusioi of the United States, to ex
clude aliens born a feat in the National Le
gislature.
[ Handed for Public atio~n.~]
By the fliip Five Brothers, capt. Brown.
Batav'u, Apiil 29, 1798.
Capt. George Cunningham, a native ci
tizen of the Un'ted States, commanding
the fhip-s Orion, of Boilon, has been ex- \
tremely il! treated by the government of [
this place. He is not only in danger of :
having his owner's property (the Orion)
tyrannically wrested out of his poffeffian,
but likewise of loiing his life—which he is
determined ft ll to hazard iu defence of it.
The particulars of this despotic condcflon
the part of the Republican government of
this place, are sent by this opportunity to
be made public in America. x
BOSTON, O&ober 30.
PRESIDENT'S BIRTH D AT.
This day His Excellency John Adams,
President of the United States of No »h
America enters the 63 ! year of his age.
The anniversary of the d3y, which made
this coantry fj ineflimable a present, and
gave to the world so bright an ornament,
could not be patTed unnoticed by a grateful
people who a?re immediately prorc&ed by
his vigilance, illumined by his wisdom, and
dignitkd by his spirit. Accordingly every
arrangement, poffibleon brief notice, has
been made to the day with suita
ble military and civil honors, and rational
feflivity.
" Now to our view, icpearM alaurell'd sage,
S nailing in all Ihe ma;eQv of
Ground whose head th- beams of Wisdom (hine,
Moie than a King, wiihou or crown or thio-ie. '
His hand alerotie fcoins—Oolumbia'j caijfe
His pen rfjpufet, and affer:s ber laws.
Pieas'd by ill fidr.fair Frredom holds her place
Ar.il all theVi « rut's blend their mutual grace. '
D.-ci Sic Justice rears ber fttady hjnit,
Sufpeiids her equal scale o'er sea and land ;
CokmMc* revives,her fsftcr Arts incre'fe;
Fell Faction dies—and fmi'ej domefticP» A cz."
ROM THE WRITINGS Or I* ?ENCIL.]
MILITARY ARRANCEMPSTJ.
Mijor General Elliot, has ordered out
the fcvqral independent companies in town,
the Boilon Ar'illery, and four militia com
panies, which, at 10 o'clock, a., in. will
form a W>c upon the Couimoa is tlie fol
lowing order :
From right to left.
The tr«op-of Cavalry unJcr capt. Amnry
—The Cadets, under Maj. Chapman— The
Li'ht Infantry, under capt. Sarvent-^The
Ftifilirrs. under capt. Brazier—The Artil
lery, under capt. IVilJi—captain Harris',
capt. Dor's, ca: t. Roils fane's, and capt.
William's., militia companies.
in i Co!. Mar, will be the commanding Of
| ficerof the i)iy. M "jars Perkins and John
il- ( son, wik command cfse Sub-Leu ions. The
is j whole wili be r;vitwetl by the Majjr Gene-
C. j ral.— After the ExeiciL-9, Firings, &c. the
id 1 Legion will march thrnogh tVejlfireet, and
at the Main Jlreet, to State fireet, where the
: d line wilt be again formed—and the
e> and Filings be r- peated. The Troops will
c ,*i then divide, the Cavalry, will march off, Ma-
JC .jor Perkins' Sub-Legion will return to the
n . Common, and Major Johr.fon's to Bozudoin
of I Square, to be dsfmtfled.
[ft Proper salutes will be fired, and the Co
rn lors of the in the-harbour will wave
m their llripei and tlar», iu honor of the friend
B . of Commerce whql.tr natal day ia celebrated.
fe , C[Vll -.
t . An elegant Dinner will be prepired at
1( j Concert-Hall, at which will be present. a
0 f large Company, compofe4 of highly refpedt
-1 ? able and patriotic Citizens, who will there,
ot in a convivial manner, commemorate the au
rh fpicious era.
p. THEATRICAL.
t0 The Boston Theatre will be opened this
,f. (though it be not regular) evening-r.
1; with entertainments adapted to the occalion,
, by the acknowledged talle of the indefati.
'at gable and federal Manager. A new Patrio
u tic long, will be fling, composed by the au
fy thor of " AJams and Liberty," called the
:a> " Green Mountain Farmer,'' which judges
fay, is Setter adapted to Mulic, than the
firft song. The Chorus, corredlly printed is,
-1 " Gran Mo/rntaius ! F.ch « Heaven's D.'grec !
■-J " Live Adams, Law and Liberty !
~ ILLUMINATION.
[_ 4 The elegant build ng miprovsd for the Co
lumbian Miifeum wilt he fpiendidiy.Uluuitniteri
and opened for the reception of company.
The r9 th in ft wascelebrated at Newburyport
he as the Prcfiilent's Birth Day. The celebration
m *'as 'n a ftil'e evincive of warm attachment to
e( l thaL Patriot. ,
Tke new company of ArtilUry ordered to be
Mrfitf by gov?rnment, has, <vitljjo >thc week
past, been formed a\j.4 organized.—The officers
h J are Hobsst Gardner, Captain,
11. Jo H n 3RA y , Fir ft Lieutenant,
he Singleton, iJ Lieutenant.
1( j We are 10! -J, the company bave nearly got
their complement f men, and that tills Aorn
r ing ihey welcome return of the natal day
: V of their beloved Piefident with a Federal dil"
P- charge fr.m Cop's Hill.
C- The iin unif irmed militia of thewardscom
o. manded by capts. Harris, Williams and Roul
(lone, were mustered, and marched
through the town on Friday last. It was Cuch
• y troops as these that commenced the American
a ' revolution.
T,
:e From tbe " Ami des Lais" of tbe second Frut- '
o- tidor, printed at Paris, <we bave extracted
tbe foUt'iving :
11'. " Since the last inteHigence from Philadelphia
n _ the Congress of tha United States li<.ve adopted
ft a motion of citizen Otis, of Boston, winch
imports, in fubftar.ee, " that all
y who may be obliged to qsit the country 'hall
1* hA' e permlfTion to take such or their effefts a
:r they may conveniently carry a-.vay, and thai
ig whatever remains, (ball he a lubjefl to t.'oeir cr
rl. der after their departure."
e _ And we are well atTured, that this tiberil and
judicious provifton had a great influence in ob
taining a repeal of the erabirgo 011 A.nerican
Jr vcffels.
:e
h We have good authority to conclud-,
That the Difpatehes w iich wer£ brought
by Mr. Woodward, and immediately sent
| to the President, contain nothing more than
an official com nur.ication to : vir. Skipwith
' of the lite Arretes taking off the Embargo
v on our veiTels and enjoining tbe libei atior,
x " ! of American fiilors, with a copy of new
Orders to the Commanding Officers in tEe
ports of the Republic, dire&ing ihem to
treat our veiTels as they treat other neatrnls,
o- notwithstanding- the late atSs of our Go
vernment.
| But with all these fair appellees, the
S laivs, which authorize the capture of our
; vessels and property, are not yet repealed ;
'j. i though we learn, it is Mr. Skipwirli's opi
nion that the Directory wiil recommend to
'1 tiic two Council* a revision and modification
ofthofelaws, and we may presume that
13 the two Councils will continue to do as they
'• are bidden,
n
Letters from gentlemen of the firfl isfir
-0 ma:ion, and of different political principles
in Paris, to others in this town, ail concur
in dating that the rigorous and decide*'* con
duft of our Government, and the appear
ance of unanimity in the addresses 'of the
j' people, have produced a strong fesjfat'.ou
1 throughout France, and to these fnzr.i.
" we are indebted for any apparent chv 1
j the fentimentsand coniuU of the D
d
j It is confidently said, and we n,
doubt of the fadl, that the king of N
f has made a treaty with the king of Gre .■
Britain, granting proteftion to Britilh ih. j
1 and property, and that the Emperor ie
s agreed in cafe the French oppose thistle::
ty, to support the king of Naples. >
The French h»ve loft the esteem and
friendlhip of all the jacobins in Europe, in
Hamburg, and other neutral countries, the
jacobin papers have changed their complex
ion. In the " Speiflateur du Nord," a
Hamburgh paper, there is a dialogue be
tween Robefpiere 3tid Cromwell in which
their aspiring ambition and dangerous prin
ciples, are exposed with great wit and pro
priety.— A few American jacobins only still
hold out.
Tlie difpatchts from our Envoys were
' published o-dy in one department in France;
> a few copies only found their way to the
' light. They wctj immediately suppressed
by order of government. Thus (lands the
French liberty of the press.
Our Jacobins pret«nd that the late change
of the m afures us the French dire&ory
mud be imputed to Lagan, their private a
ge:,t ; but the fact is, that all tbe favora
ble arretts were passed ten days before /.s
---gan's arrnal!—lt i s truo that Logan was
irequetitly clifeted with three of the di
rectory, and no doubt informed them that
they wttegtj/n£t —But :hia fa£l xt:
not realized by himfelf or tliofe
: whofenthim, until .he late unammotts en
preflians of the will of the people—lt was
a furprifc upon the French party in this
I country ; and, .like faithful friends, they
were anxious to co.-amunicate it to their
• mailers at Paris.
1 ,
FEDERAL ELECTION,
r On Monday next, the inhabitants in this
• c>-nmo"wealth, tnufl, according to law,
afftmble a'i;d give their fuffiages for persons
• to represent them in con?refs.
It is calculated, by attentive observers of
I the recent eleftions, that the Federal ma
• jority in congrefi will be greatly ftresgth
eoed. • •.
■ Xf)c oa?cttc.
% 1 ■■ ■
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING) NOVEMBER 6.
'
XVIII. CENTURY.
• CREDITE, PISONES, I3TI FORE TABUL.®
VF^RUM.
The learned Quidnuncs of the day, are
s puzziingtheirbrains with deep research
- es to discover the close of the preftnt cen
' tury.
A very sagacious Correspondent of
Mr. Cobhett's (in a witty vein) aftects to
; have found out, that 99 is an hundred ;
or ig other words " that the moment
we ended counting 1797, there were
' 1798 years part." This witty gentle
a man] too, broaches this humorous dif
eovery, after having accused his oppo- 1
nent of vanity and tgniraucf!
As he concludes by informing us that
a Lawyer and a 'Judge, (alias two Law
vers) have entered the liltsof this mighty :
• controversy, the lovers of ftrife may 1
promise themselves a copious harvest of
■ litigation.
• Two young Widows have just com
menced their Editorial career, witfiexult
ing at the. abolition of an horrid and
cruel cuftotn of Italy, by the power of
rrench influence. As the world natural
ly lets it down, from the peculiarity of the
circumstance, for a charaEieric trait, one
cannot too much admire at the bungling
itupidity of the loggerheaded boobies,
who under the f«i£tion of those ladies'
names, have committed this intolerable
faux pas.
During the performance of Lear at a
minor theatre, which had been raised on
the ruins of a boat-builder's shop, a hid
den rife of tfe tide actually overflowed
the pit, and expelled the gaping crowd,
to the great chagrin of the wonder-work- i
-iig actor, who, bent on fixing his audi
ence, and not observing the Jlimulant to
motion, still kept vociferating "Ye ca- -
tracts and hurricanoes spout, till ye have
drencht out steeples, drown'd the cocks,"
thereby greatly adding to the horrors !
of the audience, who now began to think
the whole a contrived scheme for their '
deftructton. ,
At a commencement for conferring ;
degrees, held at Williamftown, State of 1
Massachusetts, on the 19th October last, 1
tae degree of Bachelor of Arts was con- (
ferred on 28 Graduates, and that of ,
A. M. on fix of the alumni of that insti
tution. !
_ i
Sir John Borlafe Warren and Sir Ed
ward Pellew have realized fortunes by t
their captures from the enemy, of nearly ]
aa hundred thousand pounds each.
A convenient and well-finilhed bridge <
' as lately been erected at Bellows's Falls,
:r A ..Ipole, State of New Hampshire: J
-!t ■ afiftj of two arches, and is 365
in icugth; and 26 in breadth. It
a aling fpecirrten of the enterprize
; r<t public spirit of F. W. Geyer, Esq. f
■ ho is the proprietor. c
I
11 fevcral ports of the United States, the j
the farmers, in the spring, after (hearing ,
their sheep.turn them into one common flock, t
which is tended by a Shepherd, who drives f
tiiero round the country, on the commons, c
or highway , the proprietors appoint a (heep- '
mailer, who at certain periods, expose the '
flack to pubhc auftion for each night in one ,
or more weeks, which is bidden off by the |
fanners, for of manuring their y
wheat grounds, &c the flock being folded t
on the said ground, are arouled several times e
in the right, and driven from one part '
thereof to the etfcer, by these means the a
proprietors receive their'lheep in the Jaß, ]
often with a (urplus, bcfides pa> ing ihe (hep- [.
herd his wages.
c
Extras of a letter from Th mas Snell, Com - J
mander of the private armed schooner Am- a
phitriu, to T. Stagg, jun. at New York. J.
" Grenada, Sept. 27.
" On the 22d of Anguft,-lat. 33, I had
very heavy gaits, of wind : it blew with such
violence, and heavy sea going, I was fear
ful I should have been'obliged to throw the
guns overboard ; to add to our trouble, two il
of our fore chain plates gave way, and with
„• » 1 I
S: the greatest difficulty, we f.-vei! oar rrr.fi j
Ic from gomg overboard. On the 2(5,h, in
x- lat. 29, long. 53, fell in with a (hip ami
as a schooner, being to windward of tliem, I ,
lis bore down to f<7-ak the (hip, aud getting so
?y close as to take the trumpet and speak her,
;ir at that moment we received a whole broad
iide from the ship, but fortunately did no
damage j my people being ail at their quar
ters, I returned him the compliment: —An
lis a£tion commerced, which two hours
w, and twenty minutes ; fix of my guns being
us difnoounted and my ammunition nearly ex
pended, I thought it nr?(l prudent to quit
of her. I fuppofd her 10 be an English ship
la- taken by the French, which I could not
h- have nude a prize of, had /he llruck."
John Sevier, governor of the (late of Ten
neliee, and Brigadier General of the provi
sional army, haj addressed' the regiment of
_ cavalty of the diltriel of Wafliington in that
state. He fays, " When inj ired innocence
and si iendlliip have been treated with haugh
ty and unparallelsd contempt, how pleasing
and highly gratifying mud it be to a provok
ed and greatly injuted Country, when inform
ed of the gallant and folderly prepiration l ;
£ now making by the volunteer andothercoii
panies'of cavalry in the (late of Tennessee."
i he cavalry in their answer observe, that
re " the citizens of the weder.i world are not
1- divided in their sentiments ; our coufjdence
si- remains unabated in our government, and
we are willing to step forth in defence of our
- country (hould neceflity compels the mea
ot Cure."-
to
; Died, on Frid*ythe zd of Kovvmher, in the
3?d year of her age, Mrs Margaret's I». Ffcy
tag, consort of the late John George FrvytJg,
re and on Sunday the 4<\i of N'ivemljer, iiy tiiff*
e _ t year of his a je, Peter Frcyng, yojngeit
fan to the abovementioned.
lately at Mount Holly, in the year
of his age, Mr Samuel Lewis, house
Mr I.ewis by his eminence in his profeffien and '
great industry, had, in the course of a few
at years, accumulated a H^ndf>ine i proptrty. The
v _ death t~' such ammas Mr Lewis, is a I»f< to
the community at Urge ; but how great it is to
ty h : s particular friends is not e-afily to be eftimat
jy ed. In the different relations of life, he con
j. dufled himfclf as a man and a chriltian, 1
0 And d-ed lamented, as be livd belo-vd.
on the 9th ult at Elizabeth city, N. C.
after a short illness, Francis Gr<ce, iormerly a
ship builder of this city, aged 72 years.
1_ Mr. Liters, keeper of the Public
t- House at the Upper Ferry on Schuylkill.
id ' - ■■■ -——- ■
Marine %ift.
Port of Philadelphia.
_ C A.ME UP. \
'& Ship General Walhington, M'Ca(kev,
s > Londonderry i
:s' Mary, Miller, Havanna
j e Caroline, Motley, Liverpool
Diana, Williams, do. '
William Penn, Jofiah, London '
Amiable, Tillinghaft, do. |
a Charlotte, Dahnktn, Bremen
n Spy, Weft, Havanna
1- Brig American, Venn, Gibraltar
j Sukey, Whitten, Lendonderry :
, Amiable Matilda, Stiles, N. Mole
' Morning Star, Diver, Tencriffe j
Schr. S.illy, Haley, Liverpool ,
FrederickfburgPacket,Bender, Malaga 1
Triton, Thornton, Halifax 1
San'pariel, 1 p . f 1
l " SKop J-lh.s, f P"«s from the Fort.
r e Supply, Wallace, ■' N. Mol c :
1 Arrived at the Fort, Sufanna,
•s Small, Havan ia, left there 29th Sept.
j. Cr.pt. Dahiikin of the Bremen (hip
. charlotte, anived here yeflerday informs,
that he was boarded off ike Welierii Klands (
by two French privateers, who broke open ,
fevetal bales of goods, and after a Uriel ex- <
g amination f6r E' g ! ilh manufafturtd goods, !
if suss-".'cd him to proceed. They forced uo '
!_ board Capt. Dahnken the caprtaia and rhate
of a Philadelphia brig, which they had cap
" tured a few hours before." Spoke on Wed
it nefday last, a br:g and a schooner, from
U llavanna, honnd to Philadelphia. [The
schooner is probably the Satannah, arrived
at the Fffrt.j
I The (hip Experiment, Jeremy, of Phila
delphia, from Jamaica, out 36 days, bound
7 to Ncw-York, put into Charleston for fup
y plies.
New-Tori, Aov. 5. '
ARRIVED. DAYS
e Sch Pally S. Clay, Lucea, Jamaici 30 <
5, Oit 34th, spoke the Ihip Filman, Cook, 24
~ hours from Newbern, N Carolina bo|ind fur <
Lucia, Jamaica.
r 5
it Bojlm, Oflober 27.
e MSLJNCHOIT.
The fch Sgfansah, capt Daniel Jamifon, was '
!• found on Saturday morning, the 20th inft, be
twceo Holly boat point ami San ly Bay, (Cape
Ann) wre ked to pieces; she failed from Pe
|£ nobicot on the \\ f ednefdav previous, bound to
Bolton, and is fuypofed to have (truck O ! a rock
0 many leagues from (bore-, overlet, and fiiled in
«, the bay, W flcrn port and rud ier not being
rs found, and jier foremafl appearing to have been j
S) cut away ; from the trunks, cloaths and papers
j_ which have been picked up, it it supposed there
|e « cr« twenty persons »n board, who have pro
bably all peiilhed; nine days having elapsed
L since the shipwreck, and no accounts of the.de
le liverance of any of them been received ; no
r part ot ihe br.at or oars were difcovercd with t
d the wreck j though it is probable had they tak
.s en to the boat, the gale must de-
ftrudtivc to them--rUe sea running\ cry high, r
e and the weather thick. Th e following articles "
. were washed on (hore, viz.,ciothei, marked S.
'• H.—l). H H.P.—O. D— R. r.-a.-Um
'• brellas. U. Hall ; a chest of slothes supposed to J
belong to Mr S. another chefi of f (
clothes of Mr B. Clap, and a box marked ir
Joshua gangs, 'ihechefti went, on shore soon el
_ after the vessel 4 this circußi'ft.ihte flrengthens ir
tha opinion that the veffcl was overset fomecon- aj
fiderable distance from fh, re. tr
3 AN APPRENTICE *
1 TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS °|
j Will be taken at this Office, if re
> immediate application be made. th
) £<ov. 1. Ct
/ >
- . •» «•
11 Smith & Rodman,*
1 South Front ft reft,
I Ilavejvf. nccivedper ilx W,l„Vn Penn, W
a Jaue.frem Ley vox, Diana and Thomas
, Jretn Li re it pool, and KingHon,
from Hull,
0 A LARGE £? GENERAL ASSORTMENT OP
DRY GOODS, ;
, s AMONG WHICH ARE
g Plain, twdl'd and ftripcd Bombizetts and BUrll
- filing, | Crapes
Fine white and red Welfb Plain & striped Wild bore,
„ _ H,n ;; eU , jWortled, Yarn and Cotton
p Do. yellow and fearlet do. | Hole
t. Superfine and low pi ice .'Men and Boy« Woollen
S-4( 6-4. 7-4, clothsol Mittens
all colors 7 8 b)each'd Iri(h Dowlas*
Plains and llalfthicks 3"4 brown liilli Linen
Forcft and Hunter Cloths 9 8 w hitc and blown liifH
I- Green and Red Drapery!
f Baize ' Fltxen & Tow Oznaburgh
* Red & grtn' Peking'J»°
e Swanfdowns &• IWlanem 7
* a " J Uuffillf> '""^^'licoe.AChim„,
3 c e . i „ Primed Linen and bordcr'd
.. Superfine London Caffi. Handkerchiefs
meresf>f the newest and Coaon and i'allicoeCheckl
mod lafhion.ible colors Tliread Edginpj and I.aces
Low priced Yorkshire do. Men's Braver Gloves
Plain and striped Calli- P' ns in 'ma i cases '
m.incoes Holland Tap-sand Bobbin.,
t Joan Spinnings &Durants ' hickfcis and Corduroys
t Rattin.tts & Shalloons' (Honing and fancy Cord*
Norwich Camblets, for 'Velvets jnd Velvet teens
e Cloaks I Black and olive Cottonade
3
f With a variety of other Articles on baud, f»r
falc ou the must rejfonable terms for cash
or the uf'jal credit.
Nov, 6 tu.th&fa.tf
R7 TAYLOR,
MUSICAL PROFESSOR,
f* No - 9NORTH SIXTH-STREKT,
t p) HS! EC I FULLY informs the PubJic that
IV he continues to teach Ladies the Pi im
r Forte as -jfual
Nov - 6. tuthsa
j V
For Savannah, (Georgia.)
- THE FABT SAILJNG COPP£RED SHE
- Richard West, Master,
TO fail in tea days.—For freight or paff.tge =p
ly to STEP HEN\ KINGSTON,
No. 46, Waluut Streot.
If BO HAS,
1 140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
AntJ a 6ox of Mace, for fa!e.
November 6 eo 6t
ROBERT SMITH & Co.
HAVE returned to the City, and are now
opening at their Store No j8 South Front
Street A large and general alTortmeflt of
Goods suitable for the Season, which they have
just received per the late arrivals from London,
Hull, Liverpool and Glafgcw (via New-
York) and will dispose of on very loxv terms
f for Calh or Ihort credit,
a W BE LEI,
1 A House in Fourth-street, next door to
to the Indian Queen —enquire as above.
3 ! november $ <Si4t
J EDUCATION,
r Samuel Moon, jun'rs School,
/ . IN CHERRY ALLEY,
, T3 open again, Jor in.'lrudling Girls in Reading,
I -I Writing, Arithmetic, Grnaimir,Geography
■j Including the El;ment« of Geometry, and the u s e
1 of the Globes.—From the great encouragement he
3 has hitherto received, he refpcflfully solicits a con
< tinuance of the favours of his Friends and th«
Public.
■ | c? An Evening School,
e For B 0 Y S—Kept at the fame place.
t 11 m) 6th, 2aw4\v
, Cook Wanted.
( "\,\/ AN rED ' b y a fma " regular family, a wo-
V V man cook who is a thorough mistress of
her 1 ufinefs and can produce f-iista£tcry recom
■ niciidatiTO. Any person answering the ahove
. dsfcription, will meet with constant employ aud
, generous wages Application to be made at tht
j ■ office of this gazette
! To save trouble, no Iriih wo naa need apnly
E JBOV. 6 r( t
notice'.
OAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentl*.
e O men Sulifcribers, that the £XCHAN G E
, is opened for their recep.ion ; and the CITY
T A V R R N, for Gentlemcti and Traveller*
Tift Spring addey an addition of twelve Bed
- Chambers to the fide building, which makes it
] perfe&ly convenient.
November 6 aw
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortifijd, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and a
pou ic!er».
Carronados, Woslwi«h proof, with carriages, &c.
complete—r a, 18 and a 4 pounders.
Cannon powder in kegs of 15 lbs. each
Round, double-headed,and canniftsr Ihot
Patent ftisathing copper, bright, alfortud rJ?,
21, 24, i 6 and 18 or per fquari foot, sheers 48
by 14 inches, suitable for v.ffels from 100 t»
s ESicoo tens
_ Copper nails, bolts and spikes r^A
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlatTes
Gunners (lores of all kinds
Tin-places No I—l-3 cross b-xea
Patent Ihrt in calks of .jewt. each
' London porter and brown ftsut, in caiks of 7 do/V *
bottled.
1 Earthen ware in crates, afT- rtcd
For Sale Ijn
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth llrec:.
Ofloher ly. co tf.
Cj" The Office of the Mayor of
the City of Philadelphia, is held for thj
prefant at the State House is the Court
room. Oa. 18.
Eight Dollars Reward.
ROBBERY was committed on
the 17th inftnnt, at the house of the sub
scriber in the townfliip of Soiebury by two ncero
men, —they carried off a quantity of rafn ; p ptck
et book, containing fone valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, &c.—One »f the negroes is a >r.idr<l« ,
aged man, known by the nan-.i of John White, for
merly a refidcnt of Philadelphia, has an impedi
ment in his speech—the other supposed to ba
a runaway, about eighteen years el age, of
of middle stature. Whoever frcures the afortCiid
villains so that they may be brought to j»tiice,Oiall
receive eight dollars reward, or four (or either cf
them tak.'n separately.
ISAIAH TUGKEMONEY.
Solcbury, 10 \To. 19th, I/7>S. *—^t.ljir8 1 —IS
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Insurance Company qf North America. Ed
For Insurance against Fw», on Dwelling- j n
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from j n
Philadelphia, in the Uuitcd States. j t
■ 1 Q
I Common lufurancet, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout Jv
hall per cm. per annum. For extra Hazardous
rifques a larger premium will be required, which
will vaty according to circutiftances, feldam ex- '
leeding oa.- per cent, per annum ; but io some in- °'
fiances, where the property ir.fured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered flill more so tl
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and to
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised m
according to drcumflances. di
Houses and Ware<Houfes, the walls and pcrti- tk
tions of which afe wholly of stone or l>rick, well bi
conftruiled, so at to be guarded as well as may be
again!! fires from wrfhin, and free l'rom extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh- Q
borhood, will be doomed hazardous of the firft
class, a"d may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o' an extra
hazardous kind, in casks. bales, or packages, Ae
pofited in such h uildhigs, to an amount rot ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfnm •«
is required to be.insured in one tenement, an addi~
tioaal premium will be required, in proportion to f(
sircurnftances. [ a
1!. Insurances will also he made on buildings aad p
good* ext»a hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to thfl rifoue. Eut it is Hot easy to arrange tb-.fe
uiu'er particular funide ( r clafTes, so as to describe
each with tl>e necessary accuracy. Each cafe mufl
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
fiances a-tending it; and these circumftanccs wifi,
in general, appear from the defcripticn aceompa
uyibg theapplication.
Building" partly conftruiled of brick or none, N
are pveferablc to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the stile of buils'inj, how they are oc
cvpied, how they are fituitcd, the neighboring
buildings, andhow areconflderatiocs to
be taken into view. And with refficit te goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, a«d
their liability in such state lo receive damage by fy
wet, or by sudden and ha(ly removal, or to he fto- 0 ]
leu in time of confufion and hurry, are all dr- e .
cumftances of weight; and the premiums mufl be . e
proportioned accordingly. ] ]
1(1. The following condition? Sre to be under-
flood Iy tlje parties .
ift. The Insurance is not binding till the ftimi
lated prenvUna be paid ; but it lhail be deemed fcf-
feiSual from the time of such payment and accp- ''
tance thereof, whether she policy be immediately 01
signed or not .
2.!. Insurance* naay be renewed at the rxpira- P*
tion of the tern) of the policy, without further ex- >*
penfesthan the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumftanccs continuing the fame
as they were uhderftood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance wss made ; but the payment
of the | remiuni is essential t® such renewal ; and q
if the party infu*edfuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he r
pays 3 ; refnium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; Bor can the insurance be renew- ■
e.l en the forfner policy but by computing the *
commencement of the renewal frem the expiration
o[ the former insurance. The fubjeA of infur- °
ance may neverthelefe be open to treaty for a new le
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame ni
property ; it'muil be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap- c
plication will be void. p'
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment, lc
rsay be insured as fitchin a separate policy; but
thtyaremu to be conudertd as insured etherwife. 1
This coajpjoy will not be liable or accoun- 31
tabic for any loss or damage occasioned by any for-
elgn invasion, or by «iy military or usurped force
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or oecafion, n
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th- t3
like kind kept in the building, or amonglt the pro- w
perty ipfnrcd. o
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro- "
mifTary Notes, are not inclufkd in any inference;
nor are paistings, uedals jewels, gems, antique "
curiofitlej, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen- w
ty-five dollarseach, to be considered as infuredune te
less particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree
mcnt. ,
7th. No infuranee will be made for a ftiorter lc
term than one year, nor for a longer term than ft- c '
ven years. Perfc.rt; choMing to inl'ure far seven
yeirs {hall b callowed one year's premium by w».y "
of dileouut: One third or a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an infuraaee for
tljree years. - .
Kth. I.olTef sustained by llreeu property infursd, ,a
shall be paid in thirty days after due pTouf and li
quidation thereof, without dedufiion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will P 1
be expe&ed with each application, to be made by
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as n
the owner of the building 01 applicant for in- j a
sura: ce, and attelled before a Notary or principal
Ma';i(lrate, who will certify his knowledge of the cl
parties and their credibility.
With refpedl to Houfep and other Buildings,
lft. The site and position ; describing the ™
flreet or road on or near which the building
Hands; its contiguity to water, and other cir- '
cuniftances relative to the extinguishment of fire-
in cafe of accident; and particula: ly whether 0
«oy and what fire companies are eftablifh#d, and t;
engines prt vided, in the place or neighbourhood. '
2d. The materials of which it is built, whe- , c
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of „
each, as well as to the outfi'le walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeaive height and t l
thickne s ; the style of the ro»f- and of what o
materials; bowfecured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of access to Ibe top of the 11
house and to the chimnies ; whether any and
what eledlrie rods ; the number and kind of *
fire places ; and the kind of depolit for ashes. | f
3d. Ihe dimenGons of the building andhow
divided, and the fiyle in which it is finithed so ;
as to enable indifferent perfens to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of , ;
iwury j the .ipe and condition of the building, 1
and how occupied, iwhether merely as a dwel- j '
lm« house, or for any other, aiid for what pnr- *
p«fe , also an estimate of the value of the house (
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpedi to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet (
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials,and '
Low occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwifc : whe- I
ther any and what trade or manufa&ory is ear
ned on, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles used, or usually dep»-
Ctcd in the house, or within the distance afore- .
fji.l, and of what kind.
Ktfpe£ling goods in Houses Warehoufcs, Ac.
V A > enei&l description of the building in
which l '•«-> art kept will btexpefled, similar in
ail relpeils, as to the danger from tire, with that ;
r .-quirtd for Insurance on the buildings them
< % 2 CS A description of the kinds and nature of
the cood6, whether in casks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether .lifplayed in whole
v tt-s or in its ul'ual form for retailing. And
1»r t!tf goo Js aarv materially ir. kind, a general)
eltimate at tt» value of each kind proposed to
be insured ; but in the last particular minute
ness of <1 fcription i« not expected.
3. Articles of the follow, ing kinds are deem
ed excra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever bHikiing iHty m?y be placed, viz.
' pitch, tar, turpentine, rof'n, wax, tallow, oil, £
1 inflammabli spirits, sulphur, hem|),flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened-
Ghfs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
pr ked; Looking glaltes, jewelery ; and all o- I
. ther articles mo« than commonly inflammable,
1 or nrore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by maifkires, or particularly
. obnoxioTis to theft on an alarm of fire.
, Letters pod paid, dircdled to the Secretary of
, the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
* to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
I moans of paying-abe premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If "
- the application contain an enquiry only, it will '
1 bc.anfwered. ,
: Br order of the Board, [
F.BENEZEU HAZARD, Sec'ry. t
* of the Insurance Company \ r
America; Philad. Feb. 1, 1798. 5 \
Feb. 14. iamtf p
Batik of Penn/ylvditia, j
September jd, 179?.
1 "XTTHEREAS the Houle at present occupied
"■ VV by the Bank of l'ennfylvania wasenter
-0 ed on the night of the firft instant, by some vit
lains, who robbed the institution of sundry
1 Bank Notes, amongst which were the follow
e ing poll notes of the Bank of New-York, viz. ,
e No iods, dated 513 dof August, 1798, Dolls
\ ilTued in favor of Seabring &
Van Wyek, for 396 21 t
i No 1003, dated 25th of Anguft, 1798, ,
iflued In favor of Moutgom- t
ery and Newbold for 1150 c
No 1006, 27th de. do. do. 2000 {
□ 100;, do. do. do. do. 2000 t
1008, do. do. do. do. 2003 j
» 1009, do. do. do. do. 2000 I
0 1010, 28th do. do. do. 2000 I
i> 1011, do. do. do. do. 2000
r 1012, 30th da. do. do. 15-00
r 1013, do. do. da. do. 1000
J Also l'undf}- post notes of the Bank of Penn-
Y fylvania, dated 23d July 1797, iflued in favor
of George Hughes, for one thoafand dollars
each,' and sundry post notes of fairl Bank, da
e ted i/th of Jujj;, 1797, i(T«ed jn favor of<£»eo.
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in
dorl'ed by him. The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
hereby offered for th? and conviflion
y of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the laid robbery, in addition to the reward
. pftered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
- ih his Proclamation of this day.
By order of the Board, ,
t JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
1 Mills, Portage, &c.
J TO BE LEAS ED FOR A TERM OFYk.ljlS.
r
j r T~O he leafed, for a term not lets than three, .
L nor more than seven years, 2 VALUABLE i
e PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of ;
1 Onondago.a nd state of New-York, on the Banks (
of the Senec»-riVer, two miles weft of the Cayuga- j
v ferry, and eleven miles east of Geneva. ,
This ellabli'hment consists of »n excellent grift
e mill, saw mill, dwelling house, bars, and a port
,f age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the jrtciility, as maybe required i
for future improvement, t
l The grift mill is a handsome, new and well fin ' 1
ifhed building, of jo by 30 feet, 3 stories high
and furnifhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
and another ®f ftopus' stones, of the bell quality '
- —and the mod approved boalts, &c. calculated to i
make all the different qualfties of flour for sxpor-
' m tation or for hcmeconfumptton : It is acceflilile by
„ water from every part c(f the Cayuga lake an 4 Se
neca-river, as well as fVotH the Seneca-lake—and '
from its situation, commands a veryextenfivc and
_ encreafing caftom : The flream on which it stands,
. being the outlet of tjbe Seneca-lake, the mill cau i
g never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
warking during the fevtrdl feafor. of the last w;n- ,
e ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, situated on the fame j
flream, now furnifhed with an ample flock of .
r logs, df which a fopply may at all times be pro- j
cured by lani or water, of the bed quality :
n The dwelling house is well calculated for the life
of the miller, is new, and fuf&ciently large : The
U barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
r The portage is 3-4ths of a mile in length, along
the Sfcneca-falls—over which were passed in the ,
1 last year, nearly two hundred boats with their |
[' contents ; this objeft is already produ&ive of a (
handsome income, which niuft be increasing and j
[j permanent:
Among the many advantages of thisfituation,
ts must be numbered the fertility of thefuri ounding
country—being the btft improved part of the coun
,l ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter
e coarse by land and water, the Geneffee ftateroad
paDTing through it, as well as all water carriage to j
Geneva, and the counties a# Ontario and Steuben ; .
which renders it a mofl eligible fland for a Store or j
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fifii and
® fowl, aud the country with deer and other game- .
Besides the mills already erefled at this place, it j
e is calculated for any additional water works that
1 1 maybe found neceflary—Fulling mill, baik mill '
' tannery, forges, &c. maybe ereited at a small ex- (
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats from the (
■ Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the
* neighborhood.
,r The (lock on hand w : Il be fold to the leffce, and
d the catile, utensils, smith's forge, fltc. may be fold ,
it ! or let the premifcs.
r- If a purchase Ihould offer for the whole or an j
le undivided part of ihe premises it will be fold,
id Fer terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. VTil
of belmus MYNDtRsx, at tkeSeneca falls, or to the '
fubfcriljer, at Scheneflady.
w STEPHEN N. BAYARD. '
f 0 • june *5 lawim
Mails for South-Carolina isf Georgia,
, "P)ACKETS are now provided for carrying the
j X Public mails by water bet ween Philadelphia
r _ ! and Charleflon. They will leave Philadelphia
j e On Friday's. The poll by land will he continu
ed twice a week until an experim»ntja made in
J. regard to the expedition and regularity of the
or packets. If any person chufes to have their
letters sent by land only, they will please to
j C n write the word Land upon the letters : other
j wife thev will be sent by that conveyance which
'l will firft ftar,t after the letters are left io the
c _ poE-office.
; r * , jfofeph Haberjham,
iy Poji-Majler Gemerl.
Philadelphia, JuguJl 13, 1798. §
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
'?■ SADLER & HARNESS, MAKER,
! n TT AS Removed to the Corner of Chefaut
,n XT. and Twelfth-flreets, on the Commons,
at where he will receive and execute the orders of
his friends and wholesale customers, with usual
c c attention & expedition dHring the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, where it has not made its
appearance this fjafon, nor during any of the
ad y" rs , .
aujjuft J
Bengal Goods,
e> > ■,
CO«H;«tino GF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, J
Chintz CefTas Mahumzgungy
Chintz Guzziaas) Tookereys ®
I'lliabatfr Baftas Wrought Moflins
Long Drawer# ,
Coaric Sugars in bags, (it for the European markets 0
ALSO,
Carolina f»dif»a *j
Coffee in hoglheads
A few pipes of very eld and very choice Madeira "
WINK
For Sale, en rcaforrSblc terms, by
John Craig,
Nq. 12, Dock-ilrcct.
July 14 mwstf
Ten Dollars Reward. t.
DESERTED from the Guard House in New- d
Cafile, this morrfing, Stephen Sowdin, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
St:u»i He is about 36 years of age, five Cect ten
inches high, fair complexion, light hsir, blue eyes,
born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Frier
to the sth of June, the date of his euliltmsnt, 1«
resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
will endeavour to go. Any per Con \v h 1 w.ll ap
prehend the laid defrrter, sad fe ure him in any
jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to
the above reward. •
l f . WHARTON, Capt. Marines. 2
New-Cattle, o<fl 8-
DUTY on CARRIAGES. s
Notice is hereby given, t
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congress of the '
United States of America, palled at Pi«ila- 1
delphia the aßth day of May, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of pcrfsns, and t
repealing the former ails for that pwpofe—That f
there (hall be levied, colic*sl ed and paid, upon all '
carriages for the conveyance of persons, which 1
fliall be kept by or for any person, for his or her r
own use, or te let out to hire, or for the convey- 0
ing of palfengers, the fcveral duties and rates sal- \
lowing, viz. dolls, j
For and upon every coach 15 j
upon every chariot 12 ,
upon every poll chariot II t
upon every poll chaifc II c
apon every phteton, with or without top 9
upon every coachee 9 0
upon other carriages, having pannel
work above, with blinds, glaffei, > 9 !
or turtaim J
upon four-wheel carriage*, nrvmg
frame polts and tops, wi>h ft eel > 6
fpriugs 3 v
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ") 1
wooden or iron firings on jacks 5
upon curricles with tops 3 c
upon chailes with tops 3 1
upon chairs with taps 3 i
upon sulkies with teps 3 t
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 t
i«pon two wheel carriages with steel'> - j
or iron springs j J t
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 4 j
upon every four wheeled aarriage, "J t
having framed posts and tops, > a j
and reding upon wooden spars j j
The Cofleflar of the revenue ol the firft division
! of the firft survey of the diltriit of Pennsylvania,
' will attend daily until the 30th day of September
neit, for the parp'ofe of receiving the duties on
' carriages, at Germantown, on the Main street, a
little aboue the sign of the King of Prussia, of
which all persons polTelftd ess such carriages are
defiled to take notice.
Notice is also given,
1 To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled
1 spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the bufihefs of
■ retailing of wines in a less quantity, or in less
umtities, than 30 gallons—and one licence for
s jurying on the bufmefs of retailing spirituous li
quors in lets quantities than twenty gallons, at the
1 fame time and at the Tame place, by
JAMES ASH,
r Colle&or ef the ift division of the ift '
Survey of the diftriiSt cf Pennfylvapia. '
! Office of Infpe&ion at Germantown, ">
1 lid August, 1798. J
, Every denomination of Stamps to be had
i at (aid office.
t 0- Xbe Stamp Press is remove^
to the Office of Infpedion in Germantewn, on the
Main P.reet, a little above (She sign of the King of
Pruflia,—where attendance will be given for the
accommodation ot those who wHbany inllrnnisr.ts
flamped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturjleys.
ugusta 22
: Wants Employment,
AYQUNG MAN, who has served a regu
lar apprenticeftiip to the mercantile bufi
: ness in this city, wishes to engage in a Counting i
houle oroffica, writes a good hand and under- I
J (lands accounts, can be well recommended and
security given if required. Enquire at the i
office of this Gazette. I
' ju#e 21 3awtf 1
Bsrfkenridge—for i'ale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the lite
' Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
| into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
. Ealt by the river Pafaiek.
Thsre are on it a number of buildings, forming'
afquarc of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one,and|a fmjllexpence would
j put it in complete repair.
The orchard confllls of 1500 finkbearing engraf
[ ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 othw Apple frees—as also a great
! variety of other fruit*, particularly Cherries oi the
. bed and mod delicious kinds.
, Also, a great nutnber of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTrsos, that add to ihs beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
1 from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frem Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incafh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chsfnuf trect.
ebsuary 2. eodtf
* Patent Ploughs,
a nPO be fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfiou
1 Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
n Harker, Woodbury —and Jefle Evans, Lutnber
e ton, who haveufed them give them the
r preference to any other kind, as tiey require
0 less team, break the ground better; arekept in
order at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
j, rat« —the plan is much Bmplified and consists of
e but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam ef wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be pnt on with screws aaid
taken off at pleasure
Patent lights for vending with inftruiliona for
making them may be had by applying to John
"" Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 212 North
Front-street.
Who has for Sale;
it Or to Ltafe for a term cf tears,
5> A number of valuable trails of Land, well
jf 6tuate4 far Mills, Iron Works or Farms, mort
al ly improved, lying chiefly in the couuty of Han
jf tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Those who may
ts incline to view them will please to apply si)
le John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Nev.4>cld.
jaly 17 jawtf
.
/
PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept from Joni* D. Coxe,
sis-quire, prcCdent of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all cipital and. other offences in the county of
Bucks; ;nd Henrt Wvnkoof and Francis
Murray, judges of the fame court—A coart of
s Oyer and Terminer, general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtown, in the said county of
Bucks, on Monday the sth day ct NGvember next.
All those who will prosecute agaiaft the prisoners
j in the goal of said couoty, are required to be then
and there to prol'ecute against them as (ball be just
and all th-; juilices of the peace, coroners and con- •
fUbles, within the said county, Are required to be
then and therein their proper persons, with their
rollii, records, inquisitions and exaittiuations and
other their rerftem'orances, to do those f hings which
to their offices belong, in that behalf to be
done, See. DANIEL THOMAS,flieriff.
* ' '7
i " FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHRSNUT STREET,
e 100 hogiheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour ,
f july 19
3
AN ACT
For the refief of the Refugees from the liriti/b
provinces of Canada and Nova-Scotia.
; ~VSJL it enc.Elcd by the Senate and Hou[e ,
Stoles ef America, in Congress affcrnbled, That
to fatisfy the tlairiis of certain persons claiming
. hfids under the refolutions'of Congress, of the j
. t werifry-third of April, one thousand seven hun- j
. tired and and the thirteen'.li of
i April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
t five, as refugees from the Briti(h provinces of
1 Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the j.
1 Department of War, be, and is hereby autho- £
r rized and diredled to give notice in one or more f
- of the p-üblic papers of each of the States of j
- Vermwnt, Massachusetts, New-York, New- v
'• Hamplhire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav-
i ing claims under the said resolutions, to tranp- c
1 xnit to the War-office, within two years after v
1 the pafTwg of this a<3, a just md true acwunt
1 of their claims to the bounty of Congress. j
' See. 2. And be it further enacted, That no
' other perfotis (hall l>e entitled to the benefit of the
provisions of this ail, thati thbfe of the follow
ing defcri'ptioM, or their widows and heirs, viz.
Firlt, thole heads of familiss, and single per
-5 sons, not members of ar.y such families, who
were residents in one of the provinces afore/aid,
prior the fourth day of July, one thousand
5 seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
-3 doned their settlements, in consequence of hav- l
1 ing given aid to the United Colonies ®r States,
3 in the revolutionary War agaisft Great-Britain,
3 ir with intention to give such aid, and continu
-3 ed in the United States, efin their service, dur-
Jug th,e said war, and did not return to reside in )
3 the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, (
1 prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. Se- ;
I condly, the widows and heirs of all fach per- i
funs as were ailual refidetirs, as afonefaid, who ;
II abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and j
'• died within the United States, or in their fer- ,
r vice during the said war : and thirdly, ill per- i
a sons who weft members of families &t the time
f of their comieg into the United States', and who
e during the war, entered into their lervice.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the
proof of the fevfcral circumftaffces necessary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits &f this a<fl,
may be taken bef-ire a judge of the fupremfc or
° tliftricft court cf the United States, or a judge
' of the supreme «r superior court, or the firft jus- '
5 tice or firfl judge of t4»e court ot common pleas 1
■ or county court of any State.
Sec. 4. And be it further enafted, That at
the expiralioji of fifteen irronths from and after
the pafling of tbis afl, and from time to time
[I (hartafter, it (iall be the duty of theSecretaiy
for the Department of War, to lay fu:h evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
ihe Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
d and with them, proceed to examine the tefti
inony, and give their judgment what quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the individual
' claimants, in proportion to the degree of ttieir
I refpe<slive services, facrifices and lufferingi, in
. tonfequence of their attachment to the cause of
s the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
5 dWs a quantity notexctcflingone thousand acres ;
and to the lail c(afs, a quajntity not exceeding
- one hundred, making such intermediate claflts
as the resolutions aforefaid, and distributive joi*
1- tice, mays in their judgment require, and make
1- report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
g such claimant (hall haye sustained such lofl»s.and
- fufferi-ngs, or performed such services for the
d Unrted States, that lie carinot justly b« clalted
e in any one gen-ral elate, a separate report (hall
Le made of his circamftances, tnpether v. ith lhe
quantity of land that ought tp be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in ronfiJering what compcnfititrn
'* ought to be made by virtue of this adt, all grants
except military grants, which may have been
made by the ur individual Sta'.ei,
" lhall be conlidered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, refpeiftivelv, ei
ther in whok or in part, a the calc may be, a
j iatisfatflion to those whp may have received the
1 fame : Provided also, that no claim undvr this
f _ law, (hall be assignable until after report made
<j to Congrtfs, as aforefaid, and until the said
lt lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
le benefit of this a£l.
Sec.. 5. Beit further ettafted, That all claim*
,d iu virtue of said resolutions of Congress, wh'rch
i- fliall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
es time by this aft limited, (hall forevf r thereafter
0. be* barred.
It JONATHAN DAYTON,
Shealter cf the House of Representatives
'it TH : JEFFERSON,
r> " Vict-Prefident of the United States,
and Pref.dent of the Senate.
;t ' Approved, A\\vl 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAM£,
Prefultni of the United States.
Depofiled among the Uolls in the office of the
>a Debartmfnt lif State,
in Timothy Pickirinc,
Secretary of State.
Ie ___
O* Purf&mt to the above Ass, No
er ticc is hereby giveh to all persons hav
"j ing claims under the refolytions of Con
ht grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
>li the 13th 6f April, 1785, to tranlmitto
or the War-Office within two years after
m the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
th day of April, 1798, a just: and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Gaims, a ftrift atten
n- tion Iniift be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d and 3d Seftions of tke Act.
JAMES RTHENRY,
Secretary of IVar.
j' J, y >9 ' .n»6w
ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
Dr. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS',
Ik the CHre of ,
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions.
New-York, July 10, '798.
To D*. Church,
Sir,
For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la
I bored under a severe Cough, (hortneft of breath
flitting of matter from my lungs and often of
dotted blood, till at length I was lb reduced as
to be unable to walk across my room, and ow
ing td the vi knee of my cough and the fbort
nefs of breath could get no reft day or nighr.
Hearing of your excellent medicinfe, ( the Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle s I took a dofc as
soon as I got it, from which I found injlantane-
Ous relief, and by continuing it for thrte days,
I bless God I am jseflored ta pcrfedlhealth- As
I believe you to have been the instrument in the
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I mult
intreat you to publift this for the benefit of any
who may be in my (kuition, as lam confident
it is one of the belt medicines in the world fop
those complaints.
I am, Sir, your grateful servant'
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street. '
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by tbelnventor and sole
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpsnfery,
Walhington-ftreet, New-York, and at his of.
sice, No 1, South Third-fti-fer, Philadelphia*
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 118
Willi.ms-flreet, and Stilwell St, Deforeft, i6j
Pearl-street, New-York. Maueius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, V.'i'l
fon, Wilmington, &c. &c.
0 B S E R F E,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine
Has been industriously circulars through some
ef the principal cities in the United States, per
sons are requefled to purchase them of such per
form only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers,
Chappel, Head of Elk-—Bond and Co. New
cattle—Heinitfh, Lancaftcr—Blauvelt, firunf
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
%* Patients letters (Post paid) addrclTed to
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
august io 2a«'3w
This Day Pubiifhed,
And for fiale at the Oflce of the Editor, No.
J 19 Chdfnut-flrcet,
(Prime i-'Ztb ef a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At thereqiieU of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
verfarv of American Indepandeuce.
By JostAH QyrNcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we liavefnltalried,
call for—fustics. That Reparation and that
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
ind Firmness But to divide and conquer \vi<i
tlie maxim df rtie Pevil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite ind enslave hath been the princi
pie of all bis votaries from that period to the
present."
Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, lsc.p. 78
by the Ihte J. Qufaty, jun.
angtift 1 r
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Tune 27, 1708.
ATorrcE is Hereby giVen, That by vir
-1 \ cue of zn ait, palfeddurlng the present W
fion ef Conjrrefs, so moch of the aft ciuituled
" An Adl making farther provision for the sup
" port d public credit, and far th» redemption
" of the public debt"—paflcd the third day o£'
March, one thousand fevtn hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fettlcment or allowance,.
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final fetHement Certificates, and Indents of In
fcrelli, is suspended until the twelfth day o
June, which will he in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety nin;.
That on die liquidation and fettlem«itof the
said Certificates, ahd Indents of Ihtereft, at the
Tre .f'irv, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
| Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
> ages of interefl due or. their said Certificate, prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand fcven
hundred ?nd ninety cue.
That the principal fumsof the fiid Loan Office
; and final Settlement Certificates, with the interest
i tharc-on, fincethefirft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dif
: charged after liquidation at the Treafiiry, by the
payment of interest snd reimbuiT<ment of printj
[ fKil, equal to the funis which would have been
. payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
[ fubferibed, purfuint to the A&s making provision
I for the debts of the United States, cofttra&ed d«r
. in£ the late war, and by tlie payment of othw
sums, rqual to the market vilue of the remaining
Stock, which would Have been created by such
fubferictions asaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary tf tie Trtafuryl
i""* lawtf
TO ISE SOLD,
time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY.
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
small pox and mealies, is aflive, hearty and
! and fit lor houle work in town or country. For
' further information, esquire ef the printer.
aiipist 4 «
• HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia, \Ji May, I 798.
r Extrad of an ail to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Common wealth, paflcd 41b nprii;
1798.
Sefl 8- A furAer enafled by the au
-LX. thorityaloreiaid, That every house»
keeper within the city ef Philadelphia, the town
ihips of the Northern Liberties an j Moyanjinfiag*
and dillria of Soutfcwark, within a mile of the li
mits oi tlx 1 city, takiug in boarders arrivisg'ky Tea.
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
vingany l,oard«r in his or her lamily, who (hall l»
taken tick o 1 any dihale whitfoever, between the
firilday of May and the firft day of November ia
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
der shall co ne to lodge in his or hor houfc, lliall
v/irhin 24 hours next after the knowledge of such
licknefs. mike report at the of the
came of fucb lick perfo*, the time of his or her ar
rival at thehoufe and cf his or her being taken
andjof the name ur.d pU'.cu of abode of such houfe
i keep r; whereupon the Hiyficiac of the Health-
Office TOill forthwith vlfu the patient, and report
to the olEce his opibiou of die nature of such dif
r cafe, that measures may be taken to prevent the
fpreading cf tho infe«3ion; and if any housekeeper
shall ftegle& to give information in the manner and
* within tlie time aforcfaid, and fliallhe thereof con
£ vicled, in any court of criminal juriidiAion within.
thU Commonwealth upoi; in'diiSment by prdid .
or confefiion, he or Ihe iftall forfeit and pay a fine 4
co the use of the said hospital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
f impof«d at the of the court, according to
the circumftaaces of greater or lef» aggravation at*
tending each pa-ticular cafe.
liy efder of the Board of Health,
WM.ALLEN, HealthOilicer,
ttwy.n of the For: ot FhliadcUhia,