«»f tfre Glutei) J&tatCS, • Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numjsa 1757.J
For Sale t
The new aQd faft failing
: jouji^ArucKEß,
..-. .*.ST„ , FkanqjsDats, A'ifltr.
' V' :, E at Pine Street jMjjftl is
'ikty eight feet, breadth twenty feet fix inches, depth
eight feet nib* inches and burthen one hundred and
four 69-95 tons. For terms apply to the Matter
oa board, or
GEORGE PLUMS?ED, r
No. 168, South Front Street,
april 16 § 4 t
JUST ARRIVED,
In tfc e brigGayofo, capt B mgliam, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccollent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty cases Vinegar
iinquire of
Jehu Hollitigfwurtb Ce.
No. 21, Little vVater ftrset, South,
april so. §
For Sale,at the Stores ol the Sub
scribers, on Walnut (If est Wharf,
195 cases of nails assorted
»o twits ef fall canvass, frcrm No. 1 to 8
53 cases ycll°w ocbre
ij tierces battled porter, $ to 14 doit each
London particular J Ma Jeira WinM
India market )
Tene-rifFedo. in hogfheftdsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds. P
Empty CUfct bottlts
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muftintfts &c.
afiorted for the Wefl-ladia market •
4, io, ajid9 inch cables and to coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink ilands aad presses
ao puncheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine
160 bundle# fiieathing paper
T^E BRIG
AMAZON,;
For Sale, or CharteiV
Nicklin & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
FOR SAtX
& MSjHavttn.il Sugar
160 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, frooa on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
And may take in immedi-
JS&SviSTZm* ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
march 30. $
For Hamhurgh,
THE •»+*
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
®*£i*S?iaSS3£3Having great partof her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
February 26 5
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the member* of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor and diftrefled
prefbyreriap njiniftersand the poor and diftrefled
widows and children of presbyterian ministers,
that a meeting of said corporation Is to be hold
en,~t>n the iSth day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P. M. in the feeond presbyterian church in the
eity of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of
b'ifenefe as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN, •
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
Joseph Ricardo,
thta City, Merchant, ha« afiigmsd his, pro
perty fat the bescfit of hw Creditors, te James
C. Filher, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas 'Wilson.
All p£r'fons who have demands are re
queued t<r furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the SuWwibers, a&ing Alignees.
James C. £s" Samuel W. Filjer.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march jr , 4tawtf
NOTICt.
TIREB Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
I>ebtof the United State* ot the fallowing
description, vi? —N.. 103.U, 10034, a»d 1003J,
Tor cooo dated Bth May, 1797.
ftan.ingon the books of the Treasury of the Urn
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of LanoVer House.near Abergavenney in England,
Bsd have been loft by the captsre of the (hip Hac
chus from henoe to London, in June lad.— Tni«,
therefore aotifics those whom it may concern that
»pr lication. will be mad,-at the Treasury of the U
nited States for 1 renewal of the fame.
Waddington Ss 5 Harwood.
march i 1 .— —
M ES SAGE
Of the President of the United States,
To both Houses of Congress,
ATRIL3, '9B
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
FOR SALE
~ No 6* North 3d «"**. at Way&GrofTs
PriniW-Offct, I»«- *7 Arch flreat, and at the.
office ot the Editor, No. 119.
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Moaday, the 10th
:„[> rickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
* n?tar„ at W«. BLACKBURN'* Lottery
£ Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet
.TiJk" heTeh„>m Bridge Lottery, at ft.
ni; where eheck books are kept lor regifter
wtS in thrfe, the City oE"Wafting
>ngand e. f , rfon Lotteries, and informa
to,,, re ricke's may be hadin mod of the Lotte-
all kinds fale of
difcoanting &c . wilt be duly attended to,
Lands, Hou.es, \VM. BLACKBURN,
by «
November
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 27, 1798.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, April I*.
.V/j R - RtEC> prefeated two petitions (one
iVX from the inhabitants of Bridgwater, and
the other from the inhabitants of Abingdon,
in the Hate ofMalfachufetts) against the arm
ing of merchant's vessels, and praying that e
very means in the powi»r of government may
be taken to prevent a war.—Referred to the
committee of the whole on the state of the
union.
Mr. Coit called up for conCderation, the
resolution which he had laid upon the tabli;
ago, on the fubjedt of the naturali
zation law ; which being read, it was made to
run in the usual form, viz. that the committee,
dice, be directed to enquire and report whe
ther any and what alterations are necefTary in
the ait, &c.
Mr. Sit,g rsaves wished the committee
to have the whole fabjeft before them, in or
der that they might report a new system re
specting naturalization of foreigners, if they
fliould think it neceirary. He thought our
present situation called for regulations on this
j head ; since, at a time when we may very
fliortly be involved in war, there are an im
mense number of French citizens in ou?coun
try. He could not fay what might be the
proper measures to be tak*n with refpeft to
thel'e persons ; they should be fitch asthe in
terest of the country requires ; these might be
to place them under certain regulations,or by
fending them out of the country. He moved
to add to the resolution, therefore, the follow
ing words, viz, " and furtherJ* ca»fiiter and
report upon the expediency of ejtaili/bitig by ,'ttv,
regulations rejpcßing aliens arriving or rejiding
'within the United States."
Some conversation took place, as to the
propriety of letting this resolution lie for the
preient, on account of some conftitutionalob
jeiifions j but Mr. Da vis, of Kentucky, sta
ting the ne'cedity of some regulation of this
kind, from a fadi within his own knowledge
of a Frenchman refidirg in that state, who
some time ago had ilTued a number of com
millions for a certain expedition, which com
mifiions are yet in existence, »nd that this per
son Constantly employs himfelf in alienating
the affections of the people of that state from
their government, the resolution was immedi
ately and unanimously adopted.
The House then again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the state of the
union, Mr. Dent in the chair, on the bill to
provide an additional armament for the further
protection of the trade of the United States,
and for other purpofesj when ths considera
tion of the motion of Mr. Nicholas for (hik
ing out the fourth fectioil, being resumed,
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said, that the
fourth feirtion of the bill had never met his
approbation, and therefore, altho' the motion
syr ftrlking it out had been made by the gen- :
tleman from Virginia, and advocated upon
principles v.ry different from those which
influenced his mind, he should neverthelel'a
vote with him for expunging it. He repeat
qd, What he had yesterday intimated, that if
it were paflible for that member and himfelf
to fettle the question by compromise, he would
readily agree to give tip the fourth, fifrh,
sixth and seventh sections, which alone con
tained the word convoy, so offenlive to that
gentleman, and against which he had display
ed all his resentment, provided the other four
could be retained. As however the matter
could not be fettled by compo(itio<i between
them in this way, Mr. Dayton thought it his
duty to state his objections against the
011, left, in voting with the mover to expunge
it, it might be ftippofed that he acquiesced in
his doctrines and reasoning, than which no
thing could be more adverse to his feelings.
To him it had always appeared, that when
the circumftahces of the country, or the ge
neral ftateof'things, required any addition to
their armed force, whether by land or sea, it
became the duty of Congress to eftablifli and
provide for it, but that here their powers
ceased, and that they were stepping beyond l
their proper province when they went so far
(as in the section in question), as to declare
njjho fha4l be authorized and empowered to
smploy and direst such force, and more es
pecially the Manner in which it shall be em
ployed. This the constitution had already
decided, by committing to the President of
the United States the command of the army
and navy, to be directed and employed' by
him as should seem best, cpnliftently with
the state in which we might happens to
be ; if in peace, confififtently with a state
of peace, and if in wai, in furtherance of
the object of it. He would not be under
stood as insinuating that the right of declar
ing war was not vested exclusively in Congress;
but that whether--the declaration (hotild be
made, or refufed to be made, the military and
naval force was not the less under the direc
tioh of the President, to be used as should ap
pear to be mofl likely to promote the general
welfare, having regard to the existing state of
things, whether of peace or war. That the
commander in chief polTelTed the constitution
al power of employing these armed vessels as
convoys in time of peace, he himfelf had no
doubt, for he did not fee any diftinftion in
principle between employing a naval force to
protect our merchantmen in the prosecution
of a fair and lawful trade, or in enforcing the
observance of the law of nations, and employ
ing the military in enforcing the execution of
the municipal taw. It was therefore nugato
ry to enaft, in the words of the feftion, "that
the President of the United States be autho
rized andempowed to employ the armed ves
sels as convoys, or in any other manner for
the purposes of defence," since he already
poffefTed that power and authority, derived
t too from ahigher source, the people atid tbecon
ftitution. It might indeed be vorfe thaYi nu
gatory, it might be of dangerous precedent,
and confitkred as carrying*a strong implica
tion that without this law he could have no
such authority, and very naturally too, for
why else should it bccopie the subject of le
grflation. If an aCt of Congress was necessary
m this instance, ai tire feftion certainly im
plied, then Mr. Dayton said, they mull go
further, and authorize the President by law
alio to employ the land forces in covering ef
cortsof provision and clothing thro' the Indi
an country to some of our advanced posts,
which could not be approached without paf
•fing thi'o' linllan territory, or to employ our
armed veCTils in con voyiogf applies across the
l.ikesto other polls; for, ill the navigation of
thele, as of the ocean, we had not tht exclu- j
By John Fenno, N*- 119
five right, but other powws participated.
Upon thefe occalions, had thisnev*
doctrine been broached, and yet in principle,
they were certainly analogous, for in both
cases, but especially the latter, ho/t.ifrtres j
■might enftie upon the armed fi.fce protecting
■what was under it's charge, and war might be I
the consequence. Convinced as he was that
the feciion could convey not a tittle ofjiower
to the President,- but that, if adopted, it
might be thought to establish a principle, the
extent and effects of which could not but be
injurious, he trusted that it would be reject
ed. If this fliould be the cafe, and gei\tle
men were rather disposed to retain, t'hxn to
flrike out the succeeding three, merely that
they might serve as regulations for any con
voys which the President should gr/.nt, lie
Ihould take the liberty of moving to amend
the; sth fettion by perfixing to it the follow
ing, viz. And be it enadted, &c. that if the
President of the United States should tliink.
proper to direCt all or any part of the naval
fo|rce herein before provided to ierve as con
voys, the following rules, regulation* and re
ftriitions be observed, viz." W'Tth this a
tnendment, the three lucceedifigfedtions would
very properly be incorporated, and become
one, because they were regulatory merely in
cafe of convoys being granted, and not direc
tory as to the granting of them", whtctMhotild
be discretionary with the Prefidentalofle.
Mr. Gallatin said, the gentleman from
New-Jersey had taken this day, the fame
ground which he took yesterday on this sub
ject, viz. that the feition ought to be struck
out, because the constitution has already pla
ced the power in the hands of the President of
the United States of applying and employing,
afly Naval force which Olgy.V railed
-in such marmmrrt"iffTTTTTfif s~ftT, <ac<*»Wl4iTg to
the state in which the country may at the time.
Mr. G. did not think this principle was re
cognized by our laws. In the law for coiii
pletirig, manning, and equipping for sea the
three frigates;, it is said, the Prefidentjball have
poiuerto employ thefrigates—an ex prelfi on Which
could not have been made use of, had it been
supposed that the President had a right to em
ploy them in any manner whatever, by power
derived from the Constitution. He believed
this opinion of the gentleman from New-Jer
sey, arcife from confoundingtwodiftinCt Ideas,
viz. the coriftitittional powefof the President,
as Commander iri Chief to command, and the
legislative application of any force which may
be raised by the United States. There is,
an essential diftinftioti between the
power to command, and the application of a
force. To command is certainly subordinate
to applying the force. The President of the
United States is Commander in Chief of the
Militia of the United States; but wiiCnthat
Militia is raised, it is to be applied in a man
ner fpecifically direfted by law. It is true,
that within our own territory, it js in the pow
er of the President to grant escorts, or con
voys, for the exportation of any provisions
from one part of th« United StdfeS to ano
ther. But these convoys are as a different na
ture from convoys »t sea. The reason is Ob
vious. The onois within our own t;rritory
wherein we have exclusive jurifdi&ioh, where
no interruption can take place, except from
an invading enemy; but over the sea, we have
no such jurildiction. The sea is common
property, being so, we haVe rights at sea;
but other Nations have also rights these, and
our vessels meet there armed and unarmed
vessels, fame rights involved in which have
given rife to questions of the most delicate na
ture. \
Besides, if this power of granting convoys'
in the Preftdent be taken for granted, and that
he has aright to grant convoys under our pre
sent cii"cumftauce», a diltimHion mud be af
fuined, which is not recognized in the Con
stitution, viz. betwixt the power of making'
War, and the power of committing hostility.
Because it neceflarily results from the power
of granting Convoys, that the Pvefidenr Has
also the power of authorizing the commiflion
of hoftili'ties. Convoys are granted for the
protedtien, by force, -of our trade, anti any
attack is hostility; and until the diftmdtion
which he had mentioned was alfiimed, it was
impossible to allow that the President had any
such power.
The committee had been fold that the right
of granting convoys* is a right which belongs
to Neutral Nations ; and the gentleman from
S. Carolina has given the fame right which
exists in the Kings of Sweden and Denmark
to employ convoys, to the President of the
United States. Supposing the premifesto be
true, all that could be concluded from those
examples, was th&t the sovereignty of a neti
tral nation had a right to grant convoys ; and
therefore that Congress, and not the President,
had that right here.
The question of granting convoys, is one
of the most delicate nature that could Come
before Congress. The motion made yester
day, was made with a view of deciding that
question. The gentleman from New-Jersey
taking it for granted, the power of gran
ting convoys refide's in the President, is defi
l'ous also of ftrikitlg out this fettion. If this
feClion was struck out, then the motion would
return 011 the sth feftion, which he hoped
would be struck out, and fupefcede the a
mendment which the gentleman from New-
Jersey said it was his intention to make., As
there seemed to be a pretty general consent
to strike Out the 4th section, he would not
detain the committee any lohger at present;
his only objeft in rising wasto fay that he dif
fered altogether in opinion from the gentle
man from New-Jersey as to the power of the
'President in relation to convoys.
Mr. Sew a l l said, it could not be expec
ted that these parts of the country which
principally depended upon commerce, would
readily consent to the abandonment of com
merce altogether ; but whatever tlie intenti
ons of gentlemen were, their arguments went
that length. It is true, that when we shall
I enjoy a-ftate of peace, and commerce shall
want 110 attention, the gentleman from Vir
ginia proposes to attend to it. He did not be
lieve, that Congress would con
sent thus toadl towards their commercial citi
zens.
As to the right of the President to employ
Convoys, he would make some observations
on that point. By the Constitution, he is
made the Commander in Chief of the Army
and Navy, of the United States. Congress
had seldom had Naval fubjedts before them;
but with respect to the army, he believed no
instance had ever occurred in which the Pre
sident had been directed tn employ, or re
stricted from employing, the armed force in
any particular manner.
The gentleman laftup had applied himfclf
to the act respecting the frigates. He al' jw
ed that that act (ays the frigates (hall be man
ned and employed. But it did.not lav liow.
j By directing be employed it waiihewn
,i tfiat Ahey were not intended to be (lationed
vvitlVn the United States. Ihe word
perhaps, be unneceflary. But it was at that
time attempted to i'nfert a clanfe in the act
whifh fliould have obliged the President to
confine the employment as the velTels within
the jurildiction of the iJnited States. This
tailed ; "but did the gentleman from Penn
sylvania then doubt that the President had,
the powerof employing the frigates when and
where he pleated f He befieved he did not.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania admits
that the Piiefident, from'being commander in
chief, has a right to grant convoys; but h e
fays they are to be confined to our own terri
tory. So that no regard is to be had to our
commercial citizens or to. the commerce of
the United States. Our citizens going with
out the territory of the United States are to be
no longer objeits of our attention ; ourveflels,
though they carry with them papers mewing
them to be the mips of the United States, it
was :o be underload that no protection could
be afforded to them as such ; being once at a
certain distance from the United States, our
citizerts were tp be abandoned to the elements,
or to the hostility of mankind, wherever they
went. If this was the intention of govern
ment, that when the citizens of the United
States go abroad, they are to be out of the
protection of government, and that they are
to be attended to only within the lines of our
own jurifdiiiion, this fliould be thoroughly
. and perfectly understood, that protection
might be fought elsewhere-
Ms. t)ay tom said, that he wifhrdtobriiig
to the remembrance of the member from
P<nnfylvania and of the committee, a feftion
very fmiilar to this contained in a bill "for
providing a naval force," which was sent from
the Senate to the House during the lalt fedion.
It would be recollected, that he had then
j moved to rtrike it cut, for the very reasons
which.he now fuggelted against the feftion
under ccnfideration, and they were very gene-
J rally acquiesced iri, and the motion carried by
a large majority. It was true that the Senate
did not at firft accede to the amendment, but
upon a conference being had, in which the
principles that influenced the amendment
were explained, they receded, and the feftion
; was rejected. He here read the section
j from the till as it originally came from
, the Senate, expressly " authorizing the Pre
sident to employ the naval force "in such man
' ner as the general interests might require,"
and repeated the aflertion that it wasa power
■ which Congress could neither give nor take
j away, and they had on the former occasion
alluded to, so considered and decided it. As
to th? word " employed," which the gentle
man had discovered in the act that was palled,
and on which he placed some reliance as fup
i porting his doftrine, it could only be confi
i dered as direfting more fully their complete
equipment for fervige, and that the mips
mould be be put in commiflion forfos.in Con
tradiftinftion to their being laid up in ordinary.
But it was observable too that the general
term only ufed, and that no expreHion was
found in the law prescribing.as was contended
for in the present instance, the particular man
ner and fervid in which they mould be em
ployed.
Mr. Nicholas said it appeared strange,
that, when gefitleinen were agreed as to the
thing to be done, they fliould disagree so
widely in tlteir reasons for doing it. The
words wiiich the gentleman from New-Jersey
had stated to be Itftlck out in the frigate bill,
were (truck out because they were ablurd and
unneceflary, because nobody denied that the
President had the power of employing vessels
. within our own jurisdiCtion { but he would
tell the gentleman tyhat was the intention of
inferring the clanfe foi' re ft fitting their use.
It was to prevent the operation of a sentiment
, which gave to the President all power, and
this qneltion was fihally negatived by one vote
only, fironi motives of accommodation.
That commerce may be protected in a time
of peace, nobody denied j but except such
proteftion was authorized by Congress, and
the peace of this country was loft by the mea
sure, the President would be j ufily chargable
with having 101 l it. Mr. N. asked if there
were no intervening afts between a flaw of
peaceand a stale of war ? And that if the Pre
sident had the power to do afts, the etrent of
which mud be war, he had not the power of
making war? This power, he inlilted, was
ncluded in the right to grant convoys; for
except learclies were to be refilled, the convoy
would be of 110 use ; and it they were to be
refilled, war mull be the consequence.
Mr, N. said he was not surprized at the
doftrine of the gentlemant from New-Jersey,
as it was in perfect jconformitv to that which
he held the other day with refpett to the mi
litary eftabliftiment. Because the gentleman
from Pennsylvania then gave his opinion as
to the force of the country, the gentleman
from New-Jersey charged him with arrogating
tofiimfelf the command of the army. So that
of the President were so to employ the mili
tary force as to leave adiltrift cf the country
wholly naked and unprotected, the legislature
were not to enquire into the fitfficiency of
the force of the country, because that
gentleman would tell them they were arroga
ting the command of the army. For his own
part, he never did fee a cafe in which it was
more necelfary for the legislature to aft than
the present, nor where, if they did not aft,
more responsibility would be thrown upon the
President.
The qtteftion was put, and carried without
a division, for striking out the 4-tli feftio;i.
After the question was carried for striking
out the 4th. fettion, Mr. Dayton role to
move the promised amendment to the jth
feftion, bv introducing immediately after the
words " Be it enafted, See." the following,
viz. " That if the President of the United
States mould think proper to employ any part
of the naval force hereinbefore directed, as
convoys, the follow ing rules, regulation and
reltriCtions be observed, viz." Arc. This
would very properly, in his opinion, precede
the jth, 6th and 7th fettions, which Itiould <
be incorporated into one, if the committee
were- disposed to retain in the bill ; but
he acknowledged, for his own part, that he
fbould prefer the ftrkmgof these out also, and
he suggested this modification to be adopted in
the event of a majority being-found to vote
againflexpunging them.
Mr. Njchoi.as supposed, that the striking
o*:t ot the 4th section had determined th' 3
<■ \
question. 1-fe could not conceive how jl.is
amendment could be necessary, IF, accordi. g
if) the gentleman's o(vn opinion, the Prel -
itent ha-. the power to employ thefc firffels . *
hi ple.tfes. He thought thai gentlemen ought
to be for prilcinjj out the whole fe&ion, as it
is directory to the. President how he {ball cm
ploy convoys.
Mr. Dayton said, tlut the adoption of
the aiueudment he had proposed was not, as
the member from Virginia infimiated, incon
sistent with the dodlrines he had held as to the
impropriety of directing by law, by 'whom and
in -what ivoy the naval force should be em
ployed. If amended as proposed, the bill
would not be directory to the President to use
the ships as convoys, but anly regulato'ry up
on the commanders, and upon the matters of
the merchantmen who might apply to be ta
ken under convoy. Th>*y mull produce cer
tain papers before, and do certain things af
ter, they were admitted to such protection,
and some doubt might portibly arise with some
of the captains of the private velfels, whether
they were bound in flrittnefs to obey the re
gulations without a legislative
Mr. Nicholas said, there niuft be some
misconception in the buiinefs ; for it was his
opinion that the gentleman from New-Jersey
had not read, ahd did not understand the
clanfe ; and when the committee hear it rea J ,
he believed they would be of the fame opini
on. That gentleman fays the section is for
the regulation of merchant vessels ; he (Mr.
N.) laid it was for the regulation of convoys.
Mr. N. read it as follows : >
" That uo merchant vessel hound from a port of
the United States, (hall be taken under the protec
tion and convoy of any public armed vessel, which is
deftiijed to any place, that is beCcged, blockaded or
mvefted; nor, unless fitisfa&'ory evidence -<s pro
duced to the co le&or, previous to her departure,
that t£e vessel and cargo are bona fiJe, the property
of a citizen or citizens of the United States ; and if
bound to the ports of one of the belligerent powers,
that no goods, wares or msrehandize, contraband
by the general law of nations, or by any treaty to
which the United States are a party, are laden on
board the lame. Duplicate certificates of this ef
fect, ascertaining the natureand quality of the cargo,
lhall be furniflied by the collector of the diftrlet
where the cargo was laden, one of which lhall be
delivered to the commanding officer of the convoy,
and the other retained by the captain of the nur
chantveffels. And in cases where merchant veffek
of the United States are to be taken under convoy,
bound from foreign ports; certificates of the fame
nature, including the fame provisions, lhall be ob
tained from the consul resident at such ports, one of
which lhall be delivered to the commander of the
convoy, acd if no consul Ihould be eftablilhed • at
such port, then certificates containing evidence of a
like nature attested by two witnesses and taken
before a judge, magiftratc, or notary public, lhall be
procured."
Mr. Otis was in favour ofthe motion. He
had, however, no doubt that if the fedtion
was struck out, it would still be in the power
of the President to employ the velfels as he
should think proper; and he could fee 110 con
tradiction between this amendment, and the
declafation of the gentleman from New-Jer
sey ; for, although the President ofthe Uni
ted States may have the right, as Commander
in Chief, when vessels are armed, to employ
them as convoys, yet it does not follow that
th_* Legillature (hall not point out the parti
cular manner in which they fha* be employ
ed, and under what /eftridions convoys shall
or fliall not be granted. The President is
Commander in Chief of the Army, and ofthe
militia when called out, b>it Congress mHit
nevertheless diredl the use of them. He be
lieved, therefore, it would be equally proper
to leave the employment of these vessels whol
ly to the President, or to direct .them to be
employed as convoys. The qurftion recurs
whether it is expedient to introduce these re I
gulations ; and, for his own part, he thought
them proper.
In our present relation with France, it was
his opinion, that the treaty betwixt the two
countries must be considered as annulled, by
; repeated and gross violations 011 her part.-
Whilst the treaty was in existence, a certain
mode of search was directed ; but the fubjeci
was now left at large, and some doubts might
anfe whether Captains of vessels should now
submit to a search. His opinion was that ev
ery attempt made by a Freiu.li armed vessel to
search our merchant velfels ought to be refitt
ed vtith force. But if this limitation was not
preferred, the President would, perhaps
feel himfelf under an obligation to grant con'
voys only under certain cafes
might occur in which the Captain of a con
voy would not fuffera vessel under his care to
be searched. He thought it better to talce
away this obstacle of search altogether that
our convoys might fail boldly throu tha
ocean, and refn't every attack made upon our
trade.
Mr. S. Smith said, he should be for stri
king out this leition altogether. Had this
proportion for convoys come forward during
their extraordinary fellion, he should then have
voted against it, because he then confi'dered
peace as within our graf'p. But he should be
againtt any thing being said in this bill about
convoys, as nothing had been said about con
voys in the Irigate bill. If a war took place
(and we mutt soon either have a war or a trea
ty with France) some of the directions given
111 this fettion for the employment of the vef
lels, would not be suitable to such a ttate of
things; and if a treaty could be ■accompli di
ed, convoys would be unnecellary. It was
useless, he said, to place things in this half
way betwixt peace and war. The fubjeil was
taken up as a measure of.defence, but it might
soon become a meafitre of offence. He wish -
ed to flrike out every thing which relates to
convoys.
Mr. Harper did not think it of much im
portance whether ihefe feetions were retained
or not. He was, however, molt in favour cf
the mode pointed out by the gentleman from
Maryland, as he conceived the right of em
ploying these vessels as he pleafed'was placed
111 the bands of the President by the Conftitu
tioh, and he believed he did not want the in
firm, lions of thisHoufe how he was to employ
them. Whilst we remain at peace ' t we
could be considered in such a (late at this time)
he would doubtless adopt all those regulati
ons which should not interfere with a (fate of
peace; and if that ttate of things should be
changed, he would alio change bis mode of
acting.
Mr. Bayto:: was happy t 0 find that very
many members concurred with him in opinion
that the power of employing, these veflels as
lie thought proper, was ve.fted in the President
ot the United States J finding this to be the
cjfe, he would withdraw his motion, and'be
lVozo4t£ XIII.in favour o£itriking Put the sth, 6th aid 7th i
lections.—As to the member from Virginia's e
not understanding him, he did not with to be f
understood by that gentleman, but by the 1
committee ;' for when he was urging argu- <
ments in favour of his own motion to strike (
out the 4th feftion, that gentleman represent- 1
ed him as arguing againlt it. '
The tilth, fix'tli and seventh feflions -were 1
then (true* out without opposition. <
Mr. S. Smith now moved to strike out fix- <
teen (the number of veflels to be employsd) ;
in the firft feftion, for the*puTpofe ot insert
ing twelve. He did not make this motion,
he said," because he thought sixteen too many, 11
but because he did not believe we could, in 1
any moderate time, put ia ftype more tjian I
' twelve. He took up thts idea from the report
of the Secretary of> War, now on the table,
which ltated that cannon could not be pro
cured for the two revenue cutters during the
recess of Congress; because also he thought
there would be some difficulty in procuring a 1
x fufficiency of men to man the three frigates
and twelve of these veflTel? ; and becaule he
thought this number of veflels, with proper
exertions, might be pmchafed and got to sea
in two months from the pafling of the law.—
When he said this, he meant that application :
should be made to the different ports in'the
Union, where he apprehended these veflels
might be met with, and such as were calcu
lated for the purpose. He would state luch
a divifipn ps this fprte as would appear to bim
proper. At Salem, fie supposed, one of these
veflels might be got ready; at Boston, one ot
the large and one of the (mall size; at New.
port, one of the largest size ; at New-York, !
Philadelphia and Baltimore, one of each size; 1
one at Norfolk of either of the two sizes ; and 1
one at Charlerton. At Baltimore, he knew
that one of his constituents had forfale a ves
sel in every refpeft fit to carry 22 or 24 guns, 1
a prime sailer, and which might be got ready ■
for sea in fix pr eight weeks. This was the 1
mode which he contemplated following; for '
if the veflels were to be built, it would re- 1
quire a year to get them ready, and then per- i
haps they might not be wanted. He was tor j
that kind of force which.cpuld be got without '
delay ; and he alfp wilhed to provide such as
should riCrt- too much exhaiiftour resource
Money, he said, defence ; oppress our
monfey resources, and the whole system will
» be oppreflfed.
Mr. gswAiL was sorry to differ in opinion
from a gentleman whose conduft in joining
heartily in effecting meaftires for the defence
of our country, since his cortviftion from the
late dispatches, with refpeft to the danger ot
our fituat'qn, mud have afforded great fatis
faftion to the public, The gentleman from
Maryland is for limiting the force, not be-'
cause .hc does not believe it to be neceflary,
but because he is of opinion more cannot be
got ready in time to be of fervke. He has
enumerated the ports at which he supposes
veflels may be got; hut he has omitted a
number from which the remaining tour ves
sels might ealily be He did not
mention Nev< burypcrt, where the frigate Alli
ance (one of the belt 111 the service) was built
in the late war. ,ln that neighbourhood, he
doubted not, all the four vessels might be
supplied. But Portfmouih wasalfo omitted,
at which place there lie materials which were
purchased for the frigates in the year 1794,
equal to the building one of these veflels—
Portland was also omitted ; (o tliat npthing
v quid be more easy than to supply the defi
ciency. As to our means with relpef.t to mo
ney, he believed there was a spirit existed in
the country on this occasion which would 1
provide the means ofour defence; and he be
lieved oirf'refources could not be better ap
plied than in procuring sixteen of these ves
sels.
Mr. Josiah Parker seconded the motion 1
in favour of twelve veflels, not becaule he
thought fiAeerv too many, but because he
thought it better to agree to such a force as 1
could immediately be got ready. He believed ;
that more men could not ealily be got than
would man the three frigates and twelve of
thele veflels, and it Would be doubtful whe
ther arms could be got for more. Hethought '
it jvould be well, however, to cause the ad
ditional frigates to be built, many oflhe ma
terials for which being on hand. He had no
doubt twelve veflels might be immediately
got. He had authority tp fay, that in pne ;
hundred davs, two veflels of 20 guns each, ,
could be built at Norfolk. Mr. P. regretted I
that wc had occasion to raise this force, ffe .
liad, before things came to this present crisis, |
thought it would have been well to have shut
ourselves up from European broils; but he
was now convinced of the neceflity of placing
ourselves in a posture of defence, and when
he recollefted we had 800,000 tons of (hip
ping, and betwixt 40 and'so,ooo failofs, who,
at 15 dollars a month, earn nine million dol
lars a vear, and who will, without the propo
sed protection, be thrown upon the wide
world, and probably be driven out of their
r country, and the capital which employs them
ba loft, he was dtffirous of taking such mea
sures. as wpuld produce the best and molt
prompt defence.
Mr. Brooks was in favour of the larger
number. Hp did not think the objections to
it well founded. The gentlemen from Vir
ginia and Maryland acknowledge that twelve
veflels can be procured within a few months ;
and if so, there could riot be great difficulty
in netting four mere. To the places menti
oned at which veflels could be procured,
mioht be added Hudson. With respeCt to the
mm; they were a mere bagatelle. There
would be no difficulty in obtaining nine
llatin was in favourofthe smal
ler number. He did not think they could be
employed upon any rational plan as convoys,
coulidering the extent of our coast and ton
nage ; but, in cafe of war, they might be used
along our coast to drive off privateers. 111
that cafe, although a larger number than six
teen rhight be wanted ; yet the twelve, with
the three frigates, would be as many as our
resources could conveniently meet tbe ex
penccs of; he (hould therefore be in favour
of that number. He dated the expence of
this armament, according to the eftiinate of
the Secretary of War, to be at the rate of
100,000 dollars for each veflel, and referred to
the expences already incurred and to be in
curred for our internal defence, in order to
(hew that twelve wc.ild be as many as could
be conveniently provided for at present.
Mr. Williams was hi favcur pt the a
niendment, because he thpught twelve vef
fels mpre than fufficient. There cpuld bfc
np doubt that any number of veflels might be
built and purchafea ; but it neceflary to
consider where the immediate resources could
be found to pay for them. 340,000 dollars
were already provided for our fortifications,
which he thought too much; alio, twelve
companies of artillery, which were, in his opi
nion, four companies too many, goo.ooodol-
Jars had been appropriated for cannon, arms,
See. though lu thought 600,000 would have
been fufficient; and the committee were now
called upon to vote for lixteen veflels, when
1" thought half the nvrtnber might fuffice.—
They had been told that our revenue would
be found equal to every expence; but to make
•
•
1 it so, they had also teen told, that the land- 9
ed interest mud be called upon for three,
four, or five millions of dollars a year. He
knew the landed property of this country was
equal to any expence, and in cafe of a war
(which God forbid) both money and personal
service would be chearfully afforded ; but
when farmers "'were called upon to pay their
money, they would enquire into the propriety
of this and that appropriation.'* They would
enquire into the bitfmefs of the frigates, and
alk how many revenue cutters we have. He
. had heard nothing said of them. If war was
to take place, we Ibouid want floating batte
| ries, gup boats, and the like, for the defence
of our ports and harbours. The question was
whet bier tliefe veflels were to be considered a!
&e defence of our sea cdaft pnly, or as for
convoys. If for the latter, ueitherfixteen nof
fixßiid thirty would be fufficient; but for the
protection of the coast, and partial convoys,
he thought eight, with the three frigates and
cutters, would be adequate. It was of no
ule to fay vefTHs could be built here and there,
he would purchase those already built; ahd'
perhaps it would be proper to direct fix or
eight others built with the materials on hand.
It was true that our (hipping -amounts to
about 800,000 tons, or perhaps, deducting for
captures, it may be reduced to 700,000, and
that our seamen afhount to 40 or 50,000, a
great part o't which property and men would
be thrown out of employ, if protection in
some meaftire was not afrorded to our com
merce ; but he also knew that fevered sea
men of the Eastern States, finding their em
ployment of .late precarious, had fettled as
farmers in his neighborhood, and after a little
time were among the bell farmers in the coun
try. He thought it probable that others '
might take the fame course.
As to the commerce of this country, he
thought it had been extended too far., As an
agriculturalist, he would go all reasonable
lengths in thf protection of commerce ; but
when that commerce becomes so unwieldy
that it is not to protect one fourth of
it, he could not go the lengths that some
gentlemen were defirousof going for the pro
tection of it. Nearly five millions of draw
back were last year allowed to the merchants
of this country on goods imported, from
vrKfrh our arvenue has not beifn encreafed—
He was ready to meet' tlie commercial gen
tlemen on this affertlon, and if twelve vefl'ets
wereagreed upon, he should propose an addi
tional duty on drawbacks, as well as some (ad
ditional dutiesoll articles of luxur>?s import
ed. He knew that the commercial and agri
cultural interests were intimately connected —
but he wilhed agriculture not to be too hea
vily burdened for the support of commerce.
If the landed interest were to be called upon
for three or dollars a year to pro
tect commerce, the country had better have
no cammsrce at all.
Mr. W. alked if the ftrengfh of the coun
try did not conlift in the number of its inha
bitants ? Does extensive commerce populate
the country ? It did not; it was a miitaken
zeal which drove men to pursue commerce
instead of agriculture, and to suppose that it
was that which served the belt interests of the
country. He did not believe it. At theclofe
of the late war, in 1783 and 1784, in the part
of the country from which he came, the peo
ple never (aw happier days—their wealth
flowed in all fides; any quantity of money
could have been had; bu; two years after
wards, the people were drawn off from their
own domeflic manufactures, to purchase fo
reign commodities, and their state becaTne
completely changed. In the Eastern States,
in particular, manufactories were encreafing ;
but when foreign commodities began to flow
infuch abundance into the country, the home
manufadteries were annihilated, and the peo
ple got into debt.
This expensive proteftion of commerce had
long been forefeen, and on that • ground the
establishment of a Navy had always been op
posed ; but the dispute with Algiers had un
happily given birth tp a Naval system, and he
feared it would impercpptibljr increase upon
11s ; and if the landed interest did not keep it
down, the whole commercial income would"
not support it. Mr. W. referred to the Na
vy of England, and said it had been the pa
rent of her immenf'e National Debt; and if
we went to any extent in the eftablifliment of
a Navy, we might bid adieu to the plan of pay
-1 ing off our national debt ; we (hould be for
i ever climbing the hill, and forever finking to
: the bottom. He was fatisfied the landed in-
I tereft would chearfully come forward to de
fend the country against iivvafibn, but not tor
extensive convoys to pro'teft our trade. He
had no objection to eight veflels for the pro
tection of our cpalt, and partial convoys to
our trade Trom depredations, which with the
frigates and cutters, he thought would be fuf,
ficient' "The Eastern States, he said, had
nothing to fear on their coast ; it was the sou
thern and middle states which flood most in
need of defence.
Mr. Macon said, the present debate was
a Wry uncommon one, for they were all upon
one fide. Tor his part, he was against build
ing or purchasing any veflels ; there was a
provision in the bill,jwhich had not been no
ticed, which was, that the President should <
have power to hire veflels, he hoped they j
would be hired, instead of being either pur- j
chafed pr built, as it would require much less |
money, and he believed money would be j
much wanted, if we were to go to war ; but
he did not think either 12 or 16 veflels would
be equal to the proteftion of commerce. He
did not think it neceflary to bring all the fub
jefts into the debate, which some gentlemen
had thpught it neceflary to introduce. If a
land tax was found (leceflary and laid, he had
rib doubt it would be collected. He wilhed
the question might be taken, and they might
get home, and dp fdmething towards railing
the money they were now about expending.
Mr. Harper had no doubt the landed in
terest would have sense enough to fee that the
connexion betwixt the commercial and agri
cultural interests was such, that whatever was
paid for the proteftion of one was paid for the.,
proteftion of the other. He should vote in
favour of this ftiotion, not for the reasons as
signed, but because he agreed in dpinion
' with the gentleman who made, and the gen
tleman who seconded th« motion. He be
lieved such a number of veflels might be ef
fectually employed, and a greater number if
they could be immediately got; but he be
lieved twelve, with the three frigates, would
be as many as could be immediately got into.
' /revise, and by the lime they were got in rea
diness, it would be seen what farther num
ber were neceflary, and as twelve would com
, bine a more general vote than sixteen, he
should be in favour of that number ; not from
any apprehenfipns that the resources of the
country were npt equal tp the expence, or
that the people would be unwilling to bear it
—upon neifher of these points had he any he
(hation.
' The question was put and carried 49 tq 27.
[ The remainder of this debate to-morremj. ]
IV A iV f'E D, ~ .
APPROVED BILLS on Amsterdam —for which
cash will be gi»*n at the rase of thirty seven cei>ts
I ptr guilder. Enquire of the Cilhicr of the Bank
: of the United States. § april
- ®a3 tttz. !
- i
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, April ?7
For tie Gazette cfthe United States, j
-No. V.
From a retrofpeft of what has been,
a view of what is, ant) of what in all human
probability will be, we are bottijd by every j
couGderation to make preparation for the L
event. We have been once fcqrched by the
.ignis belli, and have found that endeavors
for itsextingoifhnient are better than flight :
for where nd obftru&ion is made,*it always
spreads far and wide and burns up natipns
to atoms. We must not expc& to raise up
men by Ramping on thegroinid, nor to ani
mate and humanize flones by catting them
Bvhintl us. A dependance upon mit-acles
wdold be our deltriiftion ; while an exer
tion of our power, would p tferve ourex
ifteixie, our government and our liberties.
In cafe we should be a prey to ihe rapac
ity of France without opposition, our fate
would be as deplorable, as if wp had met
force with force. We fhou!d not be admitted
to the privileges of conquered countries in
general, for that nation is implacable in tem
per and furious in revenge. No right of :
prflliminium, or renunciation of property j
acquired by arms neei] be looked for. We
should be colonized, laid under requisition, :
and (dire anticipation) fraternized. Is rxit i
then, the power to prevent such calamities '
to be enforced 1 Are we to stand idle spec- >
tators of preparation for our own zrnnihila- !
tion? F<u be it from me,-to disturb the ;
tranquility of the people by profpe&s so dif
trefliug—if they anf to be realized, Ameri
can inactivity mult bear the blame ; for my
feu, i. could no more view the portentous I
clouds fhat have overcaff ihe ftrenity oFoih"
political horizon, and -not feel appfehenfive
■of a Itorm, than I could leap fiom the
iteeple with an expedlation of lighting harm
less t;n the ground. Yet there ate some,
whom you would think, could play a game
of chefs while their legs were amputated :
such fang froid —These people will fay
" there is no danger—the French will not
invade us—they are not such fools." Yes
they are fools ? foolifh enough to commence
war without a cause enough to
invade England ; —foolifh enough to defy
Omnipotence. In fliort, though it is said
" if any wish to become wife, let him firft
become afool," French foolifhnefs endur
ethfo long, that they would try to fool us
out of our independance, before their wis
dom would shew them the foolifhnefs of mak
ing the attemp .
The enthusiastic exceritricaties of their
rulers make them think impojfibilities attaina
ble. Some of them would believe it prac
ticable to under water from Calais to
Dover, or to convoy an army there in air
balloons ; or to lay a train of gun-powder
across the Atlantic, to communicate with a
mine which would destroy America with its
explosion ; or to build a bridge from conti
nent to Continent,as Xerxes did over theHel
lefpont—or to dig down to their antipodes.
From people of such characters, may we
not expedt invasion when it is threatened ?
1 have seen some people (whom Hotspur
would call "popinjays") who would fay,
" it is a very pretty fight" if the city was
on fire. Or. if the French were to give
the signal for battle against the American
army,thefe gentlemen (rather gentlewomen)
would exclaim the French music is exqui
site."
There is another description of men, who
would remove from the settlements—run to
the mountains—surrender every thing—do
any thing—fly any where, to avoid fight
ing,
'V— Sive per Syrtej ittr irftuotaj,
Sive faflurus ps, inhnfpitalem
Caucafum ; ve) que lot a fabuloful
Lambit Hvdafpes."
No matter where—out of the reach of a
cannon-ball. I hope, for the honor of the
United States, that few such chara&ers are
to be found within her borders ; but, of
those procraftinatjng, fearlefs gentry, there
are too many.
There are others again who are aware of
the danger and of the necessity of resistance;
but ashamed, or too ftobborn to surrender
French principles because they once held
them. I mean those commonly called de-.
mocrats. lam happy to observe, lhat
great numbeis have espoused the right fide
of the question, shall we be friends or ene
mies to the enemies of America ? But there
are many delinquents.
Oh ! my Countrymen ! .this is not the
time N for tMvifion, but unanimity—not for
parties, but whole bodies ? Let us all aflo
ciate, th t we may be stronger in our mu
tual fuppoit. Let U3 concur in our endea
vors to keep the ■veflel afloat—if she finks,
we perish all together : dispute not which
fide is (Irongeft—which fide shall direst the
helm, which was right or which wrong, in
this or that cafe. The ambition of us all
ought to b,e the independence of all, and
the objeft ef us all, the preservation of aIL
ARISTIDES-
The fofl.on. ing curious inflance ef the vigilance
of the police «f Paris, under the ancient govern
ment, is extra fled from a " A Ireatife on the
Police of London" ; a new and interefling
,work, which is now in the press, and will be
publi/hed the latter end of this month. - -
A merchant ofhigh refpeinability in Boor
deaux, had occasion to vjfit the metropolis up
on commercial business, carrying with him bills
and money to a very large amount.
On his arrival at the gates of Paris, a genteel
looking' man opened the door of his carriage,
andaddreflfedhim to this efifed : '« Sir, 1 have
been waiting for yen some time ; according to
my notes you were to arrive at thi» hour, and
your person, your carriage", and your portman
teau exaiSUy answer tne description I hold in
my hand, you will permit me to have the hon
our of conducing you to Monsieur de Sartine."
, The gentleman aftonilhed and alarmed at
this interruption, and Dill mure so at hearing
the name of the lieutenant of the police men
tioned, demanded to know what Monsieur de
Sarur.e wanted with him, adding at the fame
time, th.;t he never had committed any offence [
*a»(ai,:itf the laws, and that he could have ne (
right to interrupt or detaihhiin.
she mtfTenger declared himfelf perfectly ig- '
liorant of the cause cfthe detention, stating at 1
the fame time, that uhen he had condu&ed t
him to Monsieur de Sartine, he (hotildhave ex
ecuted his order?, which were merely mintfterial. ]
After some further explanations the gentle- (
man permitted the officer to condufl hir» ac-
eording ; y. Monsieur de Sartine received him
with great politeness ; and after requesting him J
to be seated, to his great astonishment, he '
deferibed his portmanteau, and told h : m the ex- \
ail sum in bills and specie, which he hadbrought i
with hira to Paris, and where he was to lodge, )
his usual time of going to bed, and a nulnber of
other iircumflancfs, which the gentleman had
conceived could only be known to himfelf.— 1
Monsieur de Sartine, having thus excited atten- '
tirnj, pm this extraordinary queftiorr to him— '
•' Sir, are you a mm of courage }" The gen- <
tleraan, ftillmnreaftoßilhtd at the Angularity of t
tich an interrogatory, demanded the reason c
why he put such a strange question to him, ad- t
ding at the fame time, that no man ever doubt- .
ed his courage. Monj. de Sartine replied —" Sir,
you are to be robbed and murdered this night ! '
If you are a man of courage, you must go to t
your hotel, and retire to reft at the usual boor, c
but be careful that you do not fall a-fleep; nei
ther will it be proper for yoa to look under the
bed, oi -into any ot the clofcts which arc in your (
bed-chamber Jwhich he accurately defciibed)
you mull place your portmanteau in its ulual c
situation near your bed, and discover no fufpl '
cion j leave what remains to me—lf, however. ' £
you do not. feel your courage fufficient to bear t
you out, J v/iil procure a person, who fhail per- j
fonate you, and go to bed in your stead." j
After some farther explanation, which con
vmceil the gentleman that Mons. de Sartine's 1
intelligence was acgurate in every particular, he 1
refufe-d to be personated, and Formed an imme- <
diate refolntion literally to foh<iw the directions <
he had teceiv.d : he accordingly went to bed at j
his usual hour, which was eleven oVlock. At (
half pafl twelve (the time mentioned by M.
de Sartine) the dojr of the bed-cham
her hurst open, and three men entered with a '
dark lautern, daggers and piltols. The gen- 1
tiernan who of eourle was awate, perceived one 1
of them to be his own servant. They rifled his
portmanteau undisturbed and fettled the plan t>f ,
puttiag him to death. The gentleman hearing
all this and not knowing by what means he was
to be refaued, it may naturally be f»ppofed, was
under great perturbation of mind during fucli an
awful interval of fufpence ; when at the mo
ment the villains were preparing to commit this (
horrid deed, four police officers, ailing under i
Mons. de Sartine's orders, who were concealed
under the bed, and in, the closet rnfhed out and
seized the offenders, with the property in their
possession, and in the adt of preparing to commit
the murder. The consequence was the perpe
tration of the atroeinus deed was )}re»ented, and
fufficicnt evidence obtained to conviil the off
enders. Mons. de Sartine's intelligence enabled
him to prevent this horrid a<sl of robbery and
murder; which but for the accuracy of the
system, would probably have been carried into
execution.
Mons. de Sartine, it seems, kept a (harp l»ok
oat for these democratic vermin : he had coni
pleat lifts of their whole fraternityin France, and
he watched eirery step they took from one end
of the kingdom to the other Had all his fuc
ceflors ufsd the fame activity and vigilance,
the good king Louis would be fitting on his
throne at this day, and forr? of the conspirators
would have been exalted in chains, or labour
ing in the galliei. But the police was much re
laxed ; the brigands were fufiered to prowl
through the country ; and from robbijig and ,
aflaffinating individuals, they rose in a climax
of crimes to rob and mutder nations.
Twenty thousand of these ruffians were em
ployed by the philosophical illumines to regene.
rate their eountrymen. They were the heroes
of the ioth of August and the ad of September,
who put the finifhing hand to the fatal revolu
tion in France; and men of the fame character
have since that period convulsed and disorganiz
ed all Europe.
Iftheff be the fort of nerves that the Auro
ra boasted of on a late occafioti, and I really
fufpeel the young philosopher means no other,
God preserve me, and ail whom I love, from
their regenerating cuttoes.
However, be this as it may—as ir. one of those
dreams of philosophy, with which the body po
litic has beeu greatly peltered, we have let a
wide door open for the reception of flrangers
of all countries and descriptions, (some of whom
are hardly landed before they begin to reform
our government, while others reiume their old
trades of house-breaking and highway-robbing)
it will not be amiss to learn fiom our older
states how to manage such gentry, and how to
guard our lives and eftatesfrom their depreda
tions. The proper Jludy of man is man -, and it
ought more cfjJecially to be the study of those,
who are placed as watchmen, on the walls of
our Z.ion, whose office it is to " magnify the
law," and to render it the " terror of evil do
ers." The growing corruption of manners and
ptincip'es, the frequent conflagrations, robbe
ries and murders committed of late, not only
evince some great imperfedlion in the laws, or
negligence in the execution, but are alarming
symptoms of depravity, that menace still more
extensive evils.
From the New-Tori Commercial Advertifcr.
THE STAND—No. VI.
'f
The inevitable conclusion from the fa£b
which have been presented is, that revolu
tionary France has been and continues to be
governed by a spirit of proftlytifm, con
quell, dbmination and rapine. The detail
well juftifies the position that we may have
to contend at our very doors for our inda
pendenpe and liberty.
When the wonders atchieved by the arms
of France are duly considered, the possi
bility of the overthrow of Great-Britain
fcems not to be chimeiical. If by any of
those extraordinary coincidences of circum
stances which occasionally decide the fate of
empires, the meditated expedition againfl
England shall succeed, or if by the iihmenfe
expsnfe to which that country is driven,
aivfl the derangement of her commerce by
the powerful means employed to that end,
her affairs shaH be throwu into such difor
der as may enable France to dilate to her
the terms of peace; ia either of these un
fortunate events, the probability is, that
the United States will have to choqfe be
tween the surrender of their sovereignty,
the new modelling of their government ac
cording to-the fancy of the direi£Wy—the
emptying of their wealth by contributions
into die coffers of the greedy and iufatia
!>le munfter—and resistance to invasion, in
order to compel lubmiffiou to those ruinous
conditions.
lii ©ppofition to this, it is suggested that
theinterelt of France, concurring with the
difficulty of execution, is a fafe-guard a
gainst the enterprise. It is aiked, what
incentives fufficiently potent can Simulate
to so unpromising an attempt ?
The answer is, the strongest paflions of
bad hearts—inordinate ambition, the love
of domination, that prime ehara&eriftic of
the despots of France—the spirit of ven
geance for the of having
thought and afted for ourselves, a spirit
which has marked evefy step of the revolu
tionary leaders—the fanatical egotism of o
bligitig the reft of the world to adapt their
political system t» the French standard of
perfcftion—the desire of securing the fu
ture control of our affairs by bumbling and
ruining the independent supporters of theie
country, and of elevating the partizans artd
tools of France—the desire of -entangling
our commerce with preferences and restric
tions which would give to her the monopo
ly—these paflions the- most imperious.;
these motives the most enticing to a crook
ed policy, arr fufficient- persuasives to un
dertake the subjugation of this country.
Added to these primary inducements,
the desire of finding au outlet for a part of
the vast ;irmies which, on the termination
of the European war, are likely t > perplex
and endanger the A-eii in power,would be an
auxiliary motive of great force. The to- '
tal loss of the troops sent would be no loss
Jo France. Their cupidity would be read
ily excited to the undertaking, by the prof
pe£ of dividing among themselves the fer
tile lands.of this country. Grear-Britnin
once silenced, there would be no infup-rable
obstacle to the traufportation. The divi
sions among us, which have been urged to
our eommiffioners a3 ode motive' to a com
pliance with the imreafonable demands of
the directory, would be equally encour
agement to iirvafion. It would be believed,
that a fuffi'cient number would flock to the
standard of France, to render it easy to
quell the resistance of the reft. Drunk
with success, nothing "would be thought too
arduous to be aceomplifhecl.
It is too much a part of our temper to
indulge an over-weening fecutity. At the
close of our revolution war, the phantom
of perpetual peace danced before the eyes of
everybody—We-fee at this early j'triod with
how much difficulty war has been parried,
and that with all our efforts to preserve
peace, we are now in a state of partial hos
tility. Untaught by th's experience, we
now seem inclined to regard the idea of in
vasion as incredible, and to regulate our
conduft by the belief of its improbability.
Who would have thought eighteen months
ago, that Great-Britain would have been
at this time in serious danger of an invasion
from France ? Is it not now more probable
that such a danger may overtake us, than
it was then that it would so soon assail Great-
Britain i
. There are currents in human affairs,
when events, at'other times little less than
miraculous> are to be considered as natural
and simple. Soch were 'the stras of Mace
donian, of Roman, of Gothic, of Sara
■ cen inundation. Such is the present sera of
French fanaticifm. Wife men, when they
difeover the symptoms of a similar asra,
look for prodigies, and prepare for them
with forefight and energy.
Admit that in our cafe invasion is upon
the whole improbable ; yet if there are a
ny circumstances which pronounce that the
apprehension of it is not abfolulely chimer
ical, it is the part of wisdom to aft as if
it was likely to happen. What are the in.
convenience-) ef preparation compared with
the infinite magnitude of the evil, if it /hall
surprise us unprepared ? They are lighter
than air, weighed against the fmalleftproh.
aWity of so disastrous a result.
But what is to be done ? Is it not wiser
to compound on any terms than to provoke
the canfeqaenccs os-resistance ?
To do this is dishonor—it-is ruin—it is
death. Waving other considerations, there
can be no reliance on its efficacy. The ex
ample of Portugal teaches us that it is to
purchase disgrace—not fafety.. The crav
ings of despotic rapacity may beappeafed,
but they are not to bo fatisfieii. They will
quickly renew their force, and call for new
facrifices in proportion to the facility with
which the firft were made. The situation
of France is likely to make plunder for a
considerable time to come, an indispensa
ble expedient of government. Excluding
the great confideratfons of public policy,
and bringing the matter to the.simple test
of pecuniary calculation, resistance is to be
preferred to submission. The surrender of
our whole wealth would only procure res
pite, not- fafety. The disbursements for
war will chiefly be at home. ' They will
not necessarily carry away our riches, and
they will preserve our honoi and give lib
security.
But in the event fuppofod, can we op
pofc with success ? There is no event in
which we may not look with confidence to
a fuccefsful resistance. Though Great
; Britain should be impolitic or wicked e
tiough (which is hoped to be impofiible)
, to cornpromife her differences with France,
f by an agreement todivide the United Statesac
. cording to the insulting threatofjhe agents of
f France, ft ill it is in our power to maintain our
L independence, and baffle every enemy. The
. people of tlie United States, from their num.
, situation and resources, are invincible,
, if they are provident and laithfulto them
j selves. Ij. 3 T H,.2 3 S
The qneftion returns, what is to be done?
r Shall we declare war ? No—there a«e ft ill
. chances far avoiding a general rupture which
t ought to be taken. Waht of success may
. bring the prefect despots to reason. Every
( day may produce 3 revolution which may
. substitute better men in their place and lead
. to honorable accommodation.
3 Our trte policy is, i n the attitude of
. calm defiance, to meet the aggressions upon
j us by proportionate resistance, and to pre
i pare vigorously for farther resistance. To
tfeis end, the chief measures requisite areto invigorate our Treasury by calling into
activity the principal untouched
revenue —to fortify in earned our chief sea
ports —to establish founderies and increase
our arsenals—to create a refpe&able haval
force and to raise with the utmost diligence
a considerable army. Our merchant vessels
ought to be permitted not only to arm them- '
selves but to fink or capture their assailants. 1
Our vessels of war ought to on our '
coast and serve as convoys to our trade.— 1
In doing this they ought also to be authori- 1
zed not only to fink oi; capture assailants,
but likewise to capture and bring in priva- 1
teers found hovering within twenty !
leagues of our --coast. For this last
measure, precedent, if is to be
found in the conduct of neutral powers on
other oecafions.
This conrfe, it will be obje&ed, implies
a state of war. Let it be so—But it will be
a limited and mitigated state of war, to
grow into general war or not, at the ele&ion
of France. What may be that eleftion will
probably depend on future and incalculable
events. The continuation of success on the
part of France, would ensure war. The
■want of it might facilitate accommodation.
There are examples in which states have been
for a long tims in a state raf partial hoflility
without proceeding to general rupture.—
The duration of this cotirfe of conduit on
our part may be reltrifted to the continu
ance of the two last decrees of France ;
that by which the trade of neutrals with the
ports of her enemies has been intercepted,
and that by which vessels and their cargoes
composed in whole or in part of Britifli fa
brics are liable to feizureand condemnation.
Tbe declared"suspension of our treaties
with France is a measure of evident justice i
and necessity. It is the natural consequence
•of a total violation on one fide. It would
be preposterous to be fettered by treaties
which are wholly disregarded by the otfier
party. It is essentially our interest to get
rid of the guarantee in the treaty of alliance
which on tfce part of France is likely to be
henceforth nugatory ; on the part of the •
United States it is a substantial and dange
rous stipulation, obliging them in good faith
to take part with France in any future, de
fenfive war in which her Weft-India colo
nies may be attacked. The consular con
vention is likewise a mifehievous instrument
devised by France in the spirit of extending
her influence iuto other countries, and pro
ducing to. a certain extent imperium in
IM-perio.
It may be happy for the-United States
that an occafionhas been furttiftiedby France
in which with good faith they may break
thro' these trammels ; re-adjusting, when
reconciliation (hall take place, a basis of con
nection or intercourse more convenient and
more eligible.
The rsfolution to raise an army, it is to
fee feared is that one of the measures fuggeft
cd which will meet with the greatest obstacle
—and yet it is the one which ought to unite
opinion. Being merely a precaution for in
ternal security, it can in no sense tend to
provoke war ; and ta eventual iecu
jity in a cafe which if it should happen would
threaten our very exillence as a- nation, it is
the most important.
The history of our revolution war is a fe
•rious admonition to it.. The American
cause had nearly been loft for want of crea
ting in he firft instance a solid force, com
uienfurate in duration with the war. Im
mense additional expence and waste and a
variety of other evils were incurred which
might have been avoided.
Suppose an mvafioiij and that we are left
to depend on militia alone—Cats it be doubt
ed,thata rapid and formidable progTefs would
in the firft instance be made by the invader ?
Who can answer what dismay this might in
spire—how far it might go to create general
panic—to rally under the banners-os the e
»emy the falfe and the timid ? The imagin
ation cannot without alarm anticipate the
eonfeqiipnces. Prudence commands that
they (hall be guarded against. To have a
good army on foot will be the best of all
precautions to prevent a? well as to repel
ir.vafion.
•The propriety of the measure is f® pal
pable, that it will argue treachery or inca
pacity in our councils, if it be not adopted.
The 'friends of the government owe it to
their own characters to press it ; its oppofers
can give no better proof that they are not
abandoned te a fpreign power than to
cur in it. The public fafety will be more
indebted to its advocates than to the advo
cates of any other meaiure, in proportion
as our Independence and Liberty are of
more consequence than our trade.
It is the fervent with of Patriotism that
our Councils and nation may be united and
resolute. The dearcft interests call for it.
A great public danger commands it. Cve
ry good man will rejoice to embrace the ad
versary of his former opinions if he will now
bv candor and energy evince his atta hment
to his country. Whoever does not do this
consigns himfelf to irrevocable dilhonor.—
But it is not the triumph over a political ri
val, which the true lover of his country de
is the fafety and .the welfare of that
country—and he will gladly (hare with his
bitterest opponent, the glory of defending
and preserving her. Americans rouse ! be
unanimous, be virtuous, be firm, exert
your courage, tfuft in heaven, and nobly de
fy tha enemies both of Goo and Man . .
' TITOS MANLIUS.
F R E S II T E A S.
MR- CHALK,
INFORMS his Eriends and the Public, th t he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At tfi Gwthwg L'fci-* r y> No ' ? t N " rth ' T ,l"^
Jlrcet, where he will be happy to execute tlieir
fijrders for fine-flavoured
f.VIPEttIAL, HYSOK, }
YOUNG I.IYSON, (. TEAS,
HYSON-SKIN, Q
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
Oii«modo'at« terms.
C. ffo, ChncoUtc and Lo4l' 3"g:r-
anril u.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 26.
ESCAPES.
The citizens were, alarmed yesterday, a
bout noon, by the ringing of the bells, It
proved to be a call to the gaol, which had
been broken open by the prisoners, princi- ,
pally debtors, twenty four of whom had ef- 0
caped. t
A circumstance of this kind interests eve- ''
ry class of men, we have therefore taken
pains to obtain particulars, which are thus .
dated— f
A few moments before twd*e, upwards 1;
of forty prisoners, came driving down flairs '
in a body, armed with piflols, which had
spring bayonets affixed to them, and clubs. t
They knocked down the turnkey and as
saulted the front i ner door, tfie lock of f
which they absolutely bur ft off. Seeing op- '
position in front of the prison collecting, '
they flew to the rear of the house, and pried
their way through into the yard, firing at <
every one who opposed them, and forced e
their way through a cr«>ud of officers and '
citizens who found it. impossible to stem their
impetuosity—but, by (kill and numbers, r
the officers and citizens retook ten of them t
through the fire of all their pistols ; not 1
ut receiving many wounds. '
The other fourteen made a fuccefsful escape: ■
their names fee in the (heriff's advertisement ,
iri this paper, bj which 200 dollars are of- i
for their apprehenfian. Those taken '
were put in the dungeon.
The officers <sf the gaol appear to have j
faithfully performed their duty—what man, ,
I unconscious of design, cpuld oppose such a i
torrent.
Their being armed in fach a manuer, may '
be fomewhat mysterious—but (
these could easily have been fmuttgled in ,
from time to time, by the the i
prisoners.
Many citizens acquired much credit by
their exertfons, at the risque of their lives,
in aiding the magistrates in this moment of ; <
alarm. There are many~eridences a'.fo of
the vigilance of the officers ; Mr. William |
W. Parker, deputy fheriff, took two of the :
prisoners himfelf, each armed with pistols:
and we are told that this is not the firft in
stance-os fiis exertions in cases of this kind.
It pains us to mention tlie fate of our
worthy .fellow-citizen, Mr. Peter Lorillard,
tobaccojiift, in Chatham street ; he receiv
ed a ball thro' his body, from one of the
prisoners, after he had retaken him, and his
state was conceived very dangerous last. e
vening*
One Long, a carman, unfortunately re
ceived four wounds in his body and limbs, '
with buck ftiot, but they were not conceiv- |
ed dangerous. Three ether citizens were
(lightly wounded. Watson, now in the
dungeon was badly wounded before he re
signed. - (Argus. J
JAIL - MUTINr.
We have to record an extrpqnely unplea
sant occurrence of yesterday.
Abbut 12 o'clocK, a number of prisoners,
/ome confined for debt, others for forgery
an i swindling, armed with pistols, &c. made
a defeent upon the Turnkeys, and with the
.most undaunted proceedings forced their
way through the doors. Having got out,
they had to contend with a body of citizens
called together by the alarm, and who, to
prevent their escape, made »fe of various j
means to secure them ; and here we arefor
• ry to fay, that Mr. Peter Lorillard, a ref
pettable tobacco manufa&urer, was ftiot
through the body by one of the efcapeants
and is now expiring. One or two other ci
tizens were slightly wounded ; a Mr. Wat
son, prisoner, dangerously so.
The agitation produced by this affray has
rendered it impossible to be particular.
Not more than four,or five, got off, the
reft rest-are dungeoned. It is not yet as
certained who (hot Mr. Lorillard.
Placed as Mr. Hazard, the keeper was,
no man could have behaved with more be
coming firmnefs ; and since the return of
those mifguiaed objects of legal severity,
Mr. Hazard's tenderness and humanity has
excited even their thanks. [Daily Gaz.
Extract of a letter from Jer-mie, dated March 4.
" It is 15 days since the Brigands havi been on
our territory ; they entered by I.' Oucft, where
they were well received, leaving Jhere aoo hilled,
and having a great many wounded. Two days af
terwards, Dumolard was att»ckrd by the Brigands
at Jaqucs Thomas; the firft fiiock lailed two hours,
when they retired, leaving 83 dead on the field,
of which three fourths were mulattoeS; in an hour
and a half they returned to the charge and carried
the port, the garrison being obliged to retreat for
want of ammunition J 'we loft 25 men, which is
inconsiderable wh n we coßfider that 120 men
were only there to defend the post against 800.
The bravery «f the commander, officers and fol
,;ier» cannot befurpaffed. Damolard was fliglit
v wounded. It is i npoflible to defenbe the wif
' Jom and adivity of Col. Speeeer ; he was every
where almoil in an instant "
BOSTON, April 23.
The fchr. Two Friends, Tufton, which
failed from hence to Halifax, the 21ft March
i is loft off Cape Sables. We are very for
r ry to add to this account the loss of the
crew and passengers, 32 in number, save fix,
of which we understand Mr. C, Powell is
one : his wife an who were al
so on board, (hared the fate of the unfortu
nates. .
Aloes at All SI 1011.
On TF.USDAY next, ift of M?.y, at II o'clock
; at Footman and Co's. Audion Store, will be
ibid for approved indorTe-d notes at 60 days.
A Quantity of Cape Aloes
l In lots to t'uit thc'pt;rchafers, oi a good qualify,
being the property of a p< rfon oetcafed,
FOOTMAN £5? Co. Auaioneen. v
april 26. jfl
TO RENT,
A good three story Houfr,
TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
K.itchen—in Front, near Sooth-ftrect. Enquifr
of the Printer. April 40 3awjw
X!?e I
■ ' f
PHILADELPHIA, !
FRIDAY EVENING, April 27. 2
Yefletday, the House of Representatives of th
United States Went into acpnmittee of the whole t
on the Wtt providing for t}ie expences cf the Mili- }■
tary Fftablifhment for the year 1798. The fevral £
itemi in the bill were generally filled pgreeahly to ,
the e.*!iwate of the Secretary of War. without-de
bate, exce; t in the cafe of the Quarter Mahr's t
Department: It was proposed by Mr. Harper to v
fill this Mar.k with aao/oo dollars ;by Mr Gal j
latin with I je",coo. The firft was negatived, and (
the latter cirritd. Tie coflnmittee of the whole f
went throu<rh the bill, the hpufe took up the
amendments, agreed to them, and ordered the bill e
to be eiigroffed lor a third reading a
In the eourfe of the fitting. Mr. Thomas pre- {
fented a petition fror» jooojnfia'.iitants of this ci- c
ty and liberties, expreflive of of
the cotiduA of the Kxecutive in its nego'iations
with France, and a determinatifin evetv t
ni ci lure which m;y be thought necefTary by the 1
eonflituted outhorities, for the furiport of our gov- (
ernment, constitution and independence. A very j
large body of merchauts and others attended the
hoafe with this petition. f
The Speaker said he had received a letter this j
morning, signed Thomas Pinckney, which he was ]
desired to !ayb»tore the house. It wasiccor,iing- ;
Tyread. It dated that when he (Mr. Pinckney) f
had concluded the late treaty with the Spamfli gov
ernment, theSpanith Miniftir, the Prnceof Peace,
infnrmed hiju the presents usually given in such ]
cases would be prepared for him, and that also j
when he took l«?ve ot the Britifli Court, the like (
information was gi*en to him by thtMipifter there ,
To both which he replied, that die constitution of
the United Stqitijs forbade its minivers from re eiv- :
ing any presents Ifom a foreign , Prince or State, '
without tlve cohfentof C®ngrefs", that in due time
he would ask that eonfunt, and aA icoordingly.
I'his letter asks for the determination of Congress.
It rajs moved bj Mr.Rutledge to refer tliis letter
' to 1 fcleA committee ; Mr. Macon wilhed it to go
to a committee of the whole house. tcr lorn'
obferva-iors, 'he latter motion was negatived, and
. Married on Tuesday evening the 24th inft.
by the Rev. David Bard, John Heap, Esq.
of Shippenfburg, to Mrs. Sarah Smith, junr.
of this city,
j Married on Monday evening last. by the
' Rev. M. I Rhees, Mr. David Ellis, Mer
chant, toMifsMartha Brown,bothof South
ward
By the arrival of the ship Argus,capt. Black
at New-York, 11 days from Or
leans, we learn—
Thaton the 23dMarch theSpanifh troops
evacuated the Walnut Hills.
Onthe 30thGaptGuionhoifted the Ame
rican flag en the fort at the Natchez.
On the 2d April major Kersey arrived
■ from the Chickafaw Bluff.
j The works on Walnut Hill havenotbeen
burnt by the Indians as reported.
Nothing can be more unequvocal than the
patriotic expression of th'e sentiment of the
citizens of Philadelphia on the present situ
ation of our country, and their approbation
of the measures of the goverament. It has
been expressed, l it. By an address figncd by
FIVE hundred 2d. by the ad
dress of the Mayor and Aldermen and the
SeleA and Common Councils in their cor
porate capacity 5 3d. by the memorial of
! the citizens at large, signed by about five
j thousand, althhough the Quakers, who
! are all decided friends of the Government,
I declined ffgning on account, not of t'be ge»
I neral tenor or intention of the thing,
but Of some expressions rather strong for the
religious and peaceable tenets of that feft.
VALERIUS.
It is to be remarked that in the infamous
Letter addressed to thd President, in yes
terday's Aurora under the signature of
Valerius, a complete sentence is taken from
the Assassin Felton's letterto the Duke
of Buckingham, previous to his murder.
We fee what class of authors these fellows
consult and what models they choose for
imitation.
EXTRACT/of LYING.
" Firm—united —'■let us be," Bcc.
Bache, finding this sentiment of union
and patriotifra rapidly spreading throughout
the United States, and cementing the honefl
men of all parties in one common bond of
1 interest and brotherhood, attacks it with
: wickedness and virulence wherever he finds
• iti The song sung with the enthusiastic ap
' plaufe of every American at the Theatre on
Wednesday last, has excited his keenest re
,' fentment and called for an exertion of his
" abandoned Lying faculty. I shall point out a
1 few of the tnoß glaring fallJioods in his ac
; count of this song and its reception, leaving
J the smaller ones as undeserving of qenfure.—
- When you find a little lie or a harmless one
■ in the Aurora, praise it, as it is the nearejl
' approach to truth tha} can be expefted from
that quarter, and is entitled to the fame
kind of pre-eminence that a ftmp'e pick pocket
would have among a gang of cut tbroati and
a/fajfms.
! But to the Aurora—" For some days
, pad" (fays Bache) the anglo fnonarchical
. Tory party (to wit, the oppofers of French
_> tribute and fubmiffioti) " have appeared at
the Theatre in full triumph, and the Preil -
3 dent's March and pther Aristocratic tunes"
(to wit, Yankee Doodle and Stony Point)
« " have been loudly vociferated for and vehe
mently applauded" and long may they be so.
1 He fays " the admirers of British fyanny
assembled on Wednesday evening, in conse
quence of the Managers having announced
1 in the Bills of the • day that there would be
given a Patriotic Soxg to the tune of the
President's March."—A Lie —The Mana
gers announced no such riling neither in the
Bills of the day nor any where else- " When
the wished for song came—which contained
the most ridiculous bombast, the vilefl adula
tion to Anglo Monarchical party." —A Lie—
The song is now befcre the public and they
will fee that there is not throughout, a lin
glc allusion ta any party or any party prin
ciple or queftiou. Jt contains g:aeral <x-
pi of love and attachment to c?/r hurt- M 1
try and liberties, without reproach to any so- f
reign nation. It applauds tht wrnhi.es who I
fought ar.d bled for American freedom,
(whom I fuppnfe Bache calls the anglo mo- a
narchical partv ) without censure or abuse of £
any body. It contains a fervent wish of
unanimity, of a cordial and brotherly coa- si
lition of all g<>od men of all parties. It is tl
this, wish, joined with the profpeel we now ai
have of this unanimity, that flrike the pangs n
of hell through Bache and his aflbciates in
French corruption, & blasts the vile proje&s A
they have so long foftered with an adder's ' N
vigilence and care. It is this gjpripus, hap-
py proTpedl which injvigoratei the wing's of J
the American eagle, and it a
flight far aV.ove the efforts of foreign influ
ence and corruption, or domestic faftion
and treafori'. But the two Presidents are
spoken of with refpeS, and this offends the
delicacy of Bache. And if I shall ever fee
the day when my countrymen shall forget
the ferviccs of a Washington and an A
damj, when the recolle&ion and applaufr
of them shall be' unwelcome to their ears, I n
shall fee the clay when American virtue and j
gratitude are buried and extin&. Bache V
goes on to fay that the Anglo-monarchical E
party "in the fury of their exultation,
threatened to throw over or otherwise ill
treat every perfori who did not join hearti
ly in the applause"—A lie —nnd every „
person at the theatre, and Baclit him [elf anas 1
there, knows it to be so. He then goes 11
on to abuse the managers, and asked why
the ore he lira refufed to play Ca Ira when
repeatedly called sor —a lie —one or two
•weak folitary voices, it is tr je, one of
wMch was probably Bache, and the other
his friend and companion Callender, called j
! once or twice in a feeble tone for Ca Ira,
but Were instantly overwhelmed with loud J
and irrefiftable biffing, and a general call
for Stony Point, which was played.
I was akuut to remark tjjany other fslfe- '
hnods in this paltry effort of malice and
difappoiritment, but I have already spent 1
more time on the than he defervest
He concludes by inviting the republican
party if they go again to this temple of a
ristocracy, " at lead to go in a party fuffi
ciently flrong to pj-oteft themselves fiom
outrage, from insult and from degradation."
Infamous incendiary, who thus endeavors
to excite tumult and riot in a place of pub
lic amusement that might end with the mofl
serious consequences. Outrags or insult
have never been offered to any body there ;
and lam sure no American republican
will feel degradation at an American Song
that interferes with no party, but that, if
such a one there is, they hate American in
dependence, and would prostrate us at the
feet of France, paying tribute for our ex
istence, and licking the feet that tread on
US. AN AMERICAN.
S>uere. Why did Bache, on Wednesday
evening after the play was over, fend his
compliments to Mr- Fox, and request a
copy of this vile Anglo-monarchic Song ?
ExtraS of a letter from 80/lon, dated 22nd
April, 1798.
" As to our political appearance we have
not looked or felt so well for. two years back.
Sincs the communications have been made
public, there seems to be but one sentiment
in this quarter. We may possibly have ten
or a dozen headstrong fools,or bribed knaves
that may yet juftify one of the raoft corrupt;
arid abandoned governments, if it may be
■called a government, that ever existed. But
these Fools and Knaves at present have judg
ment enough to keep out of fight."
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
—— 1
ARRIVED. buys
Brig Amiable Creole, Story, Amfkrdam 45
Schr. Favorite, Shaw, Charts Ho u 7
■ Yesterday arrived in town Captain Bur
■ rowes, late of the fchr. Lively, of this port,
from Bsffeterre, Guadaloupe, which he left
the 28th ult. when his own vefftl and seve
ral others had been condemned.
Capt. Btirrowesinfornis that he took paf
-1 sage home in the fchr. Mary, Brothers.
: bound to Baltimore, andlsfther offthecapes
t of Delaware ; that the fchr, Lively and fe
f veral other flout privateers, were fitting out
1 at Guadaloupe for the purpose of cruifiag on,
3 the American coast, and that the people
- belonging to the Pigou hadleft Guadaloupe
1 in a whale boat, in order to join their ship
- at Ant'g«a. ant l that the British had claim
s ed salvage for the capture,
3 New-Tori, April. 26.
ARRIVED days
r Ship Argus, Black, New-Orleans 13
- Brig Nancy, Worth, Charleflon 5
: Mury, Boardman, Mifbon 45
? Schr.-Huntrefs, Fitch, Savannah 4
i Phoenix, Ives, Havannah 12
: Olive, Sheffield, do. 12
1 Bellona, Pieree, N. Carolina 4
1 Capt. Boardman fpokethebrig Porcupine
on the 17th inft a few days before which, in
s a gale of wind, she started a plank, which
1 cauf?d capt. Brooks to thovv overboard a
1 quantity of her eargo ; when capt. B. left
t her, one pnmp kept Iter, free.
Ship America, capt. Her.fliaw, of New
' York, bound to Amsterdam ( istaken Ijy the
) French and carried to Amsterdam, her port
- of destination 1
Yesterday arrived brig Mary, capt. Board
s man 45 days from Lisbon, who states rhat
. Mr. Bulkeley, the American consul there,
i informed him that a treaty of pesce was ne
e goiiating at Madrid, between the Repnblic
e of France & Portugal, under the aufpices'of
- the Prince of Peace, which it was expc&ed
t would soon be etmpleted.
1 Capts. Dean Aid Williams of and for fa
i lem failed in company with capt. B.
Left at Lisbon , Lee,of and for N.
- York to fail in 3or 4 days ; uifo eap:. Tr.d
wc 1 of Boflon.
Admiral Jarvis, with I 8 or 20 fail of the
- line as at Lisbon, when Capt. failed.
Capt. B. on the 3d April in lat.^.co
"tong fpoke flit. B-tfey, Ge i. Olarkj
from Nantucket to the Cape de \ erd ptft
16 day-; nil well.
April it, lat. 3J 54 long. 64,00, fp-ke
a Ketch, from the luc o; France bound to
Salem.
Capt. Boardman informs that theCrefcent
frigate (present from the United States to
the Dey of ffiiefi) on hcrpaflage touched
at Gibraltar and fired a salute, which was
returned by the fort.
PafTenirers ia the Favorite from London.
Mr. Skidijiore, Miss Dow, and
Mr. William Oxley, Miss Proftor.
Mrs. & Miss Campbell.
NEW-THEATRfc. :
Mrs. Francis's Night.
i this-Evening, April 27/
Will be prcfenttsd a new C'OMKDY, ia three
a3s, (never performed here) called
TIT FOR TAT.
Old Meanwell, mr Warfen ; Young MeaDwell,
mr Fox; Villamour mr Marihall; Skipwiil, mr
Hardinge.—Florinda, mrs Matfliall ; l.etty, mrs
Francis,
End of the Comedy, a ntw COMIC SCOTCH
BALLET, (Performed upwai Js of one hundred
nights at Drury-Lane Theatre) called THE
SCOTCH GHOST;.or Fanny's Love.
Th.f principal characters, by mr and tnrs Byrne,
mr Francis, mr W'arrell, jun. mailer Byrne, mad.
Harwcod and miss Milbourne—ln which will be
introduced a variety of Strath fpey's Reels, Sic.
The Ballet under the dire&ioq of Mr Byrne. 1
After which (never performed here) a
COMES Y, in one aft, called
ALL IN GOOD HUMOUR.
Squire Hairhram, mr Bernard ; Robin, mr bif
fett; Cfop, ti\r Warrcfl, Jiln. Chagrin, mr Francis ;
Bellamy, mr Fox.
PPft-s Chagrin, mrs LVKftratiere : Sophia, miss
L'Eftrange ; Dorothy, mr 3 Francis.
In the course ot ths Com*<iy Mr. Fo& will, for
the lecond time and by particular desire, fiotf a
new Song (wiittcn by a.CitwJn of Philadelphia)
to the Ti' ( tff fhr
president's March.
To which will be Efddtd, a SERIOUS
PANTOMIME,(never performed here)
told in adion, in one act, called
THE DEATH- OF
. GENERAL WOLFE.
General Wolfe, (with '« How (lands the Glass
aroJfnd," written by general \Volfe,'thc might pre- -
vious t« his departure lot Quebec) mr Marlhall;
General Monckton,(with an friih drinking Song)
frr Hardinge; Brigadier General Townfliend, mr
Warren ; Surgeon Adair, {with a Song) mr Par
ley ) Grenadier, mr Warreil, jun. Indisn Chief,
mr Doctor. Officers, Soldiers, Attend#' ts,&c.
The last Scene, in which the lamented hero expires,
willdifplay agr6up, exactly imitative of the c«.
lebrated Frirft of the dea'h ol General Wolfe.
The Evening's Entertainments to conclude
with a new FARCE, (never performed)
ealled THE
ADVENTURES OF A WIT.
Trifle, (The Wit) mr Harwood j Trip, mr Blif
fett ; Old Squaretoes, mr Francis.
Coriana, (with a Song—The music composed by
mr Taylor.) mrs Marlhall ; Mrs Soberly, mrs
L'Eftrange ! Fillett, Tlirs Francis.
03" Mrs. Francis refpe&fully informs
her Friends who may honor her with their patron.
• age, on this night, that such care has bee., taken
in the Arrangements of tne-farietu Entertainments
. iha* the curtain will drop at or before ri o'clock.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and ar Mr.
Cart's Musical Repotitory, Market-Street, and Mrs
: Francis, No. Jo, North Eight»ftreet.
1 cr> On Saturday, the favorite Comedy,
> (not a£ted these two years) called The Busy
; Body— a Comic Sketch, called PiHures 'of
1 the Times—with Love in a Camp ; or, Dar
■ by Turned Soldier—For tile benefit of Mr.
" Blissktt and Mrs. Bernard- ./
%* Mr. L'Estrange's Night will be
on Tuesday next.
: - Lojt or- Mijlatd,
Kearny Wharton's Note to the Sub
scriber, dated April 25th, payable at fixry
s days after date, for fifteen l,un red dollars
■ Should it be offered for negotiation, the public are
j cautioned againll receiving it ; if tjund and ic
turned, such f erfon wili be entitled to a liberal re.
ward. GEOK.GK PENNOCK.
' aytl *7- 3t
1 Maffuehuj'etts UJ/frid. *
By Order of the Honorable jdtis Lowell
Esquire, Judge of the Diftr'uft Court tor '
the rtlaflachufetts Diflritf,
" "NJ OTICE is ' hereby given to all ptrfonii
s IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in laid
Court by Christian G Grmzmacher, late Com
t mamkr of the (hip Corona, of and from H am .
n burgh, and Henry Andrew Heins as agents for
the owners of said Ship, agaiiift sundry goods,
■ wares and merchandize, f.,ved from laid lhip
e Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif-
P trifl on the 16th March lafi—which goods,
wares asid merchaHdize, were consigned to di
vers perfonsin Philadelphia, in the Olftiia of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and faid Li
s bcl is filed as aforefaid, for the freight said to be
due to the Libeh'ants on said goods, waree and
J merchandize, and for nectflary exptnees 1 akl
' by them which have arisen upon the sanK
5 And that trial will be had upon the aforelaid
4 Libel at a Diftrift Court to be I. -ldcn at the
2 Court-House in Boston, on Monday ihe ei h
-2 teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
. SAMUEL BRADFORD,
e r. , »> " Mirjbj <fMaffacbuf t tts:'
Dated at Boston, dpril 7
n T 7 ( /#- 5 tawtf
a < hole gentlemen who arecon
•t " rned in the car ?® °f 'he (hip Corona, Captain
Grutzmacher, bound from Hamb to Phih
delphia, but lately cafl a way or, Cape Cod w ; Il
- please to meet on Mondav mbrmnft, Jot'i AnrM
e at ra o'clock, at the CorT. e-Huule, in No. ,
■t april ay.
she Subfcribtrs,
r A u rC J™*!"/ -t itlin K'" wharf . from on Vard
t of the ship Elizabeth, Captain PcaO.-e, from B
•, tav.a,
400,0*00 lbs. of best lava Coffee
c 292 Caniftersof Sugar 9
jf A few tons of Sapar, wood
d * for SALE'
Philips, Cramand & Co
april 16
1- —t- iw
UEUAR RAILS.
TM Sulfcriber will enhtrndl for the
|. L of any quantity of C«Mf R n ,l, 0 f a vt .;*
f;per:or qualny, at any place on the Dt 'awa;'a
e be.oH Trenton, on moderate terms.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
n ~ ?'»" 1 IS, Marliet-flrrrt.
° a P nI ,na%v 4 wTREASURY DEPARTMENT,
i MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A A of Ongrefs passed on the sixth of July one tholifaod seven hundred and
nir.ety-fcven, entitled " An Ail laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A3 palled on thefifteenth day of DecamSer, ene thoufaud seven hundred and ninety-feveß, entitled
" An Ail to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the AS enti
tled "An Avi laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July enfming, the feveralStamped Duties hsreafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon which fnall be
written or printed any or either of the infirumeuti «r writings 10110 wing—to wit :
Dli CtJ. [ M/J
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ----- s
Any Licence to prailice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvo&ate or Proilor, in aay Court of the
United States, ... - ** . xo
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of tketfnited States
for one of the said Officei, shall so far as relates to th<t.payment of the
duty aferefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Court* of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for land» granted for military services) - - - . 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on acceuntof anyLegacyleftby any Will or ei
ther testamentary instrument, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any ftatutc of diftrrbuti«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - 25
Wl\fn the.amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - 50
And for further sum of Five Huitdred Dollars, the additional futn of x
Any Pdlicy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one diftriil to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign pert or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 25
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Afy Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may ba the duty of the Cierk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular state, - jo
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiffbry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga- '
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
uferefpeilively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, jo
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
Provided, that if any bonds ornotes shall be paya*hli at or witfijnfixty days, ! U- .
such bonds or notes shall be fubjeil to only two fifth pat-U of the duty
aforefaid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolla-rs, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 10
If above siva hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, ... -
Any Notes iflued bv the banks now eftabliftrcd, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum 011 the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rel'peiSlively, according to
the following scale. - - ' "
On all notes not exceediag fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hsndred dollars, JO
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - * '
Oft all notes above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - - - * 2 J
Any Lettet Of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military, fefvices
performed in the late war, - ...
Any Certificate er Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, - - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand ddilars, t
For more than two thousand dollars, - - r 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftri<» to another diftriil of the United States, not bting in the
fame State, ... - 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or plaoe, - - 45
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods. or efifoiVs, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal procef3 by anv officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Conanany, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
It above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The dutiesaforelaid will be and received by the Snpcrvifors, Infpeaors other Officers
of Infpeition, ira the several Dlltriils, Surveys and Divisions of the United States, asd by such other
persons as (hall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifbrs of Diftridls for
thatpurpofe.
The Supervifars of the several Diftriils will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be praflicable, markorflamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
mant or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper r..av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Snpervilor, Infpeaor, Officer of hifpeitien,
or other par Con appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids.
GIVF,N under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementiiticd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. ' Secretary of the Treqfurj.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlercien
in the merer ntile liDe, to undertake the pub
lifking of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every aHiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Jdwrtifer.
To be published evety and Saturday
morning, on the foil, conditions.
It will be printed r.a fcur pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholeiale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Louden, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The ratss of irfaranee—-the price
of (locks—courfeof exchange, &c. &c. Likewise
a regular account, of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as lhall
be thought ufeful and important —and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advirtife
ments.
The pric£ to fUbfcri6ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
lcribers at a greater dillance will have it sent them
agreeable to their directions —to pay t> o dol.arsat
the time of lubferibing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubfcribed«<o pay the expence
of conducting,^.
It is from the adrica and to gratify the wish
ef a number ol mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publilhing this Price ©nrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. Ard ii is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
in the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as rsay be m»re immediately do-
Bieltic, and to adveitifi menu.
§ubfcriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
"and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chclhut
fiieet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fecopdhandLight
Waggon, hung cn Jacks with plaff.s and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness.
Enquire of Pe'er Umirickhoufc, Arck, below
Sixth street, 01 the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR H r . HAINES'
apiil a *aaw3*f
Frefli Teas.
Juj} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooplr, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
"SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Mo. 54, Chefnui-ftreet,
and Br
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hii Cosnpting House, Crooked billet wharf,
BohCa,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aliened ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattius, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring; Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also Ftr Sale,
Ell wide Periians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ip boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Wi l l i a m M'L a w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chtfnut Street,
A general afibrtinent of Horseman's
Piflols, dire£t from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch B otes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard feather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
'
City Commissioner's Office,
• January lilt, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by the
said conmiiffioners, for ckinfing the
streets, &c
Diftridt No. 1. —From the nprth fide of Vine
ftreet,to thefouth fide of Mulberry street; te
be uuderthe/uperintendanceof Nicholas Hiek*.
1 From the ioiith fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CVefnut to be undwthe
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
thenanh fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph ClaypooJe.
4. From the north fide ortpruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance sis Hugh Roberts.
gF When pumps arc out of order south of
High-flrcef, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
comer of South and Fifth-fireets, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, r.car Chcfant-ftreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixcy and Dehaven, In Saffafras
ftreet. .bstwecn Sixth an 4 Seventh-streets.
New Tea Warehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE I'OST-OFyiCE.
THE Subscriber rcfpGitfull acquaintaherfriesds
an 4 the public, that she has opened a Store lor
the faleof all kinds of teas, imported in the late
j arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (asunder) and ,
which-fte is determined tof*:ll o» reafonablo terms.
It will be hcrconftantendeavour to give fatisfa<ftion
to those who please to favor her with their cuflom.
Country floras will fiad it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as ihc can at a moment's notice afTort
them any quantity wanted, and will allowareafon
able credit g*) approved notes.
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Srucliong,
Hyson Skin, and B<?hea —Also, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for falc.
Sarah Eaton.
April i i s&th.6w
b ran nr.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
PROU CCTTE,
Will commeace landing this day, at Smith's drest
wharf.
rS'r'.HT 1 } Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes'
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raisins, Bcc.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO AISO OFFERS FOR SAll,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
1 to hhds. Jamaica Sugar
$0 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. caflcs
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
april 18. dtwcotl7M
Notice is hereby Given,
TH A.T application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five C<ytificates of Bank' Stofk, 101 l by the
capture of the 13riti(h Packet, Co*ntefs &f Leices
ter—viz.
No.37oa,containings(hares') lfiued to Henry Ca
-73Z 1 ' do. issued to Edwards
~ -————^— liit"?
1 5 do. iifued (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel »nd Henry Waddington.
1928 4 do. iflued to Phyn, El
lice and Inglis.
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to (hew cause why new Certificates should not be
ilTuerf agreeably to the said application.
April 14 » aogw
imported in the lhip Phoenix,
Richard Grice, matter, from Amfterdapi,
A qnantity of Lintfeed Oil, and
Two cases low priced Linen Checks
FOR SALEbv
George Pennock.
April 19. eotf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT;
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by ana<n. of Congrcff pafied on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft pal Ted on the 6th day 6f July 1797, en
titled " An a<Sl laying duties on ilaraped vcl
" lum,parchment aod paper."
The (lamp dutie* on debentures or certifi
cate! for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount jit the rate of seven and one balf
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervifnrs
or Infpe&ors refpeflivefy, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties Ihall amount to Ten Dol
lars Or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and Told at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge oc'expenfe on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, art additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents far each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of mediumfize, which may be furnish
ed at the expense of the United States ajsd pro
portionally for anyleffer quantity.
Given under my -hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of theTreafury.
LANDING,
Frem on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR'SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 caniltars SUGAR, of a fuperiof quality
ALSO, 1
A quantity «f SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. ,
Thomas Ss? Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SAI.e,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctti, tea and coffee
raps and saucers
Nankeens, black l'attins and taffitiea
Pungent cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Englilh umbrellas,
Together with a general ajjorftnent of European
Goods— among <u>hich are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. lod. 1 id. and aod. nails
Shot —T. Crowley steel, Spanifli brown and white
lead -
Englilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7,. to be let, three (lories high, Suitable for
any bulinefs.
4th mo. Jth §tf
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER., NO 10, STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonable terms on a ftort
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April x mw&s4w
JUST RECEIVEt), *~i
FIIOM PORT-AU-PMMCI,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces da.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do.
no hogCjeads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Mo la (Tea
4 bales of Cotton
2 hoglheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS £2" FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march i». " §
Ross & Simsqx,
HAVE FOR SUE,
22- bales {Superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Qarolina Indigo, firft quality
A lew bales Baftas, Coffees, and a quantity ol
Bengal COTTON
Btngal SUGAR, and boxes
Jamaica and} RUM
Lengal J
april to j )
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of Vew York, between the northern
bounds of Hennfylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, (rom their quality and situation,
are a very desirable objedt for any man who meant
to invert his money to advantage.
On paytnent of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafenable credit will lie given for the refi
dut.. Enquire of the Printer,
april If. 5
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the watsrs of Fish and Wheeling
Ci;eek3»and Ten Mi'* Run.
Thefi Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five shillings per acre ; patented early in 1787* ex
cept 3700 acres, which were patent«d in 179 X ;
part of them were surveyed in X 7&3* *he tra &
is between the Ohio and Monongahel* very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafliington, from 14 to 16 from the
village ot Gfeenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the rcfi- ;
due. Enquire o( the Printer,
april 01. —-
Germantown and Reading 1 urn
pike Road Company.
THE Subscribers Commiflioners appointed by
an ASi of Assembly of this Commonwealth'
entitled, " An a<sl to enable the Qovprnor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
jfcakihe art Artificial Road from the city of J?h -
ladelphia, thruogh Germdntown, by the rout
of chefnut Hill, to. the twelve mil# stone on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law directs, and that we
will proceed to receive fubferiptionsfor the com
pany's flock or the 28th, 29th, and ,50th days
of May nest, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, en the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock, P. Mv en each day, when and where cer
tain of the Commifiioners will attend to receive
fubferiptiona accordingly,
april 14th, 1798-
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BETTON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTERj
! J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS, jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
(hare at the tlrtie of ftlhfcHbing.
spfil 17 —eodtsoM
To be Let,
(And immediate poffeflion given)
APleafant Country Seat, on the German
town roid, five miles and a quarter from
the City. |Enquire at No. 39 Pine-street.
'' april 17. zawtf
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. Ith, 1798.'
THE Contributors to the Per.nfylvania Hospi
tal, are te meet on the seventh day ef next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'elock in the afternoon, to
cleft twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry.
April 7 dtE
term of Co-partnerihip between the iub
fcribers, trading under the firm of Johß Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted.to the partnerftiip,
are earnestly i;equefled te make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
-Fabruary T9 § t £
LANDING,;
From on boand the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SAL* BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march j §
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Iff Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frent Sfreet,Philadelphia ; where
they no-w have, and intenj kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Irijb, French and Bri
tijb Mannfadlures for tale, on advantageous termt
for eafli or a ihort credit.
February I 9 s t f
NOTICE,
THE Partnership of the fubferibers, trading un
der the firm of PAXSON fcj" RICHARD
SON, was difTolved on the sixth of the third month
last, by niutu 1 confcnt. All persons indebted
thereto are earned!}- requeftcd to make payment ;
and those that have afiy demands against the fame,
are desired to present their account&for fettlemcat
to either of thefubf«i!>«rs.
Isaac Paxfon,
v Nathaniel Richardson.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
isaac"paxson,
Coijtinucs to carry on thebufinds at the usual
place, No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a large assortment of Ironmongery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and Brass W; res, which'he will fell
who (sale or retail, on low terms, for c.lh or the
usual credit. He expeds to receive by the firft
veileis from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull,
a large addition to his present aflortreent; and
will execute with puniluality and care any orders
era™ I " Cr < - uftomer »' and friends in gen
-lav.'4',v
J4 VJ O i,
THIS morning inor naar the market,
Red Morocco Pocket Book with
Clasp, about half worn/in which »«« twoT ta
Dollar Bank Notes and sundry papers, ufcWfs t #
any but the *wner. If the perfsn who sou
it will leave it and the contents with the primtr
hereof, they will be rewardtd with cat of the
notes. .
april 18 *3*_
" 4 FOR SAL£,
by the ?\jbscriber9, No. ii> Penn-ftr<etj
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Canfijling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht . Guzzey do.
Hurahums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamoddys Checks
Maharagonges Pafcna Hkfs.
Ginghams Malmui ds.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
soo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing! y Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales <?f Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and belt colours.
February 8. dtf
Imported, "
In the Brig Ben jam i n Fr an klin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALE BY THI SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half ca|ks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in bc*es and baiket*-
Lunelle
Sauterne ( wiees in Cases.
Macarty, and (
Medoc j
Thomas Murgalroyd,
No. n, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes In tit led
Irish market "> f 10
Medoe, and Sau'erne j " " 5 drawback
Sherry wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bufheU Liverpool Salt,
ijiarch 19 _
RecfClover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, halt
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glll's—■all of which will be fold
on very reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
march I w»tf No. I a, Dock Street.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any derajtnids again ft
the ellate of Wili-am Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de*
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, ) „ ,
No. ij, So. Third-street. 5 Admim fi r r
Tanuary 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Bos
son, Campbell, Yoong and Ormhod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
'To •wbicb is atwexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&iccelf
different authors : and an APPENDIX, «ihib
iting intsrefling fa As and refledtions relative ta
the SynocLus IZltroidts, or Vellow Fever, whtch
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the feapert
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Pfiiloiophicai So
ci»ty. Feb. 1—»-;m§
JUST RECEIVED.
And for i'ale by W. Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet. M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. JDobfon, 41 South Secontl-flreet and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price j-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Ideal Poem, historic and defociptive 1
By a Lady of Bojlon.
analysis of book 1.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpecl—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—FiAion discarded—Dedication to Waft
ingtoii—The Acftion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians From Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame
Wafliington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of ths Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafc Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment Of
Congress—Declaration of Independence Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic ApoCrophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 3c. g
FOR SALE,
ALL that elegant three dory Brick House, brick
•Kitchen and Lot of Ground Situate on the
south weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets
containing in front on Fourth street 3J feet, and'
in length on Prune street 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with' Common privi
lege of the fame,
Also, a two story brick Honfe'andLot of Grouni
situate on the weft fide e( Fourth fireu and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth en Fourth,
street ?5 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 &iet oa the
the faint 1"' conlmoh privileges of
And also all that Lot of Crowd situate .n the
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the last
described lot, contaioing in breadth on Fourth
Itreet 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth oh the north
lide 103 feet, thence running southward 11 feet 6
f' en r £ f " lther w «=ftward ft feet, thence
still further fouAward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth iirect, with the
common ufsof th« said four feet alley leading i«-
to Prune ftr C et The whole will be fold together
it more agreeable to the purchaser
For terms, enquire 0 f the fubferiber, at his of-
No. 12 4. South Fourth street
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
December se.