of the Philadelphia Daily Advertisert
, Ni/MiEi i66s-j
Loft, or taken away by mistake,
f-n or about the lath November lait,from «n beard
tl.c fltip Commerce, Richard Waiflcoat, master,
iaft froai Liverpool, lying at Morris's wharf, sec
ond above Draw bridge, onebUek leather Track,
cbveiedwi:h draw matting and corded, maked at
bctxom
A being a trunk of printed Calicoes. If any
B person information refpe&ingfaid
P trunk, they will confer an obligation up-
V on the owner.
N©. 6 JOSHUA SUTCLIFT,
No. 100, Spruce-street.
January 10. 4 t
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—from London,
(Where he has lludied several years under ons of
the most eminent matters in that science)
INFORMS his that he has re-commenc-
X ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likevvife, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ fcim, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A lice directed to W. H. left at the oflite of this
Gtzette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. §2w
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book*ftores of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Orm&od,
in Philadtlphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting or Billious
Fevena.
To which is annex td,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ire of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa<9s and reflexions relative to
the Syr.ur.bui ißertidej, or Yellow Fever, which
Jias cccafioned so much diftrefeand mortality, at
different periods, in several of the seaport towns
of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
rellew of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philofop'hical So
ciety. Sic. *3m^
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Man,
Who has thi ee years to serve ; he is a good host
ler, or coachman, and with some attention would |
make an excellent Cook. He it, fold for no faults,
but for want of constant employ. The price for
histime, to prevent needlefsenquiries, is £.30.
Enquire at No. 28 Spruce-ftieet.
At said place may b<; bad a few tons of choke
firft crop Hay.
tft month 9th. it
TO BE LET, !
And pofieflion given the ift fanuary,
The Houle No. 107, Arch-street,
N«r the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire asabove, or at No. 88, Vine
Street.
December 17
All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
bring m their accounts pioperly attetted, on or
before J.; »f ulai —infu.-ntr
anff those who are indebted to said estate arelo
licitedto make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Adrainiftratrix.
uov. 19 X 797. 4
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher, .
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.3T3, corner of Arch and Front llreets,
HAFE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, afTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetica
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cherts belt Hyfoa Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes bed London Window Glass,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, aflorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
November «8. 3awtf
NOW LANDING,
South-street Wharf,
Iht Cargo of the Ship Concord.\
Captain Thompson, from Batavia. I
Abeut 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been feleited)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags f
ro legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
tOR SALE Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica.
208 hhds, Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 23.
A person well acquainted with s
the theory and praiticeof book-keeping, who his been p
manyyeacsengagodinbufinefslorhimfelf andothers,
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent
er favftor ; or in polling books ; dating unsettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or Engliih, • -
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punctually attended to.
November 30. 3awtf J
House and Lots, in Bordentown. a
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the tot on which it is erc&ed, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy ,
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty tws 'l
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
aneacre, and is one hundred feet on the main 1
ilreet, and extends with the fame breadth tobask C
Itreet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly lour
acres,
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re- - F
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase "j
ermaychu'e. This property will be fold free c
all incumbrances, and an iodilputable title givenf r
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Bur lies, residing in Uordeirtowa, near.
*he preinifes, who will Ciew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 2. 3awtf
' FOR SALE, "
Several fonts of Types—half. worn.
Including Loi.g Primei", about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the f urpofe of
a country printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer. Nov. 30.
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 11, 1798.
For Savannah,
rd TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
r > The f*ft failing ship
£ SWIFT PACKET,
at P atr, ck Gribben, Mailer,
ty' n g f^e wiiarf below
y Street—has handsome ac
id commodations for paiTen^trs—Hot freight or paf
>- sage apply to the Master on board, or to
N. & J. Frazer,
N0..95, South Front Sfroet.
IVho have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whale and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Isdige, fvTolalTcs in hhds, Tenerilte
wine, &c. &c
,f December 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
1 Britiftj vessel, fifteen hundred
a tW ° t^ou^ vc hundred bar-
Is Peter Blight,
O WHO HAS FOR »AL£,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogtea
[, and old London Particular Madeira, fit tor imme
diate life, in pipe*.
DeceniVr to S IW
For Charleston,
j~ THE SHIP
, gmf- VENUS,
V Li's* t i»tarj of Mtflrs. Perot tj
s * 1-,-vrCHE will take Freight on vsry
- fcii'Vi - O low terms, and tail the fir ft
opeiyng. Apply to the master on board, or to
f Jos. Anthony & Co.
Det ember 18 5
3 - 1 •• I —"—' —2—
; l or Amsterdam,
FA R M P E R,
Jo»f M'C ollob, Matter ;
• fail in a few days, the
■ JRs£K&©£feSsgre*ter part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee* or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
' Who is ESnding.out of the laid Ship, from Saur
deaux, and For Sale,
C-larct in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cases
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiaiac,
Sautetne, £ Wines in cases
LunHle, >
Prunes in boxes
november 24. Q
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
William Whittin, Master.
? A ftronggood veflel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient {peed, a
great part of har cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
faee, applyt»<sie ca»tair. or
" - junN t>B.tKiiT, — -
Landenberger'a wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov t 8. §
For Sale or Charter,
MA a good hope,
irgjESgrT Will carry about 1100 barrels,anfl
is K ady to take ma cargo. For terms
* C " £ " a ' apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for fale-r-prirae St. Cfoix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teoeriffe wine.
November 7. dtf. (
For Liverpool, .
Jp-fc The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain. ;
A Lar e c proportion of her 1
1 '' -ci cargo being ready to go oA J "
board, is expected to {ail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December. :
For Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain on !
board, at Walnut-ftrect Wharf, or to
PHfLIP NIC KLIN fcf Co.
November 22. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with eiceilent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS 53" SIMSON.
IVbo have to Jifpufe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- -
ing 6 acre, and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra& lane, in the b
townlhip of M«yamenfing, about one mile from ti
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will u ]
be in ide known upon application at the office of 01
the Philadelphia Gazette. t |
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December X. dtf -
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July u, 1797, the Tame '
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. w a ,
ROSS £sf SIMSON, I
HAVE FOR SALE, in
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and [I
a quantity of Bengal COTTON ri.
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes U
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, C RUM. f c
and Bengal j dj
300 calks RICE, and i_
A parcel of ship buil.ling RED CEDAR. hi
OA. 17. { 5
By John Fenno, N° iip CheJ?:ut Street.
NrCKLIN fcf d*iFPXT4I,
At their Store oa WaJ.iut StieerVTbarf—
hav| FOR SAM,
11 5S hhds. of Jamj.-ea Rum
' Maietra Wine in pipes and hhds.
fcneriffi do. ia pipes
* Old Port do. in hh'Oa
f- ' m P CT ' a ' i" quarters a«>d eighths of cl'efi6
S.ui Canvass, No. i, to g
Dimiries', Ginghams, arid Mufiiners, in packa
ges iaitabte for the Weft laihi markst
Nails afljrted
Black quart bottles
■ia Queens ware in Kh(is.*nd crates
ft Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, exported round
as soon as the navigation 19 open,
, Fine Liverpool Salt
* Coals
Spaniih Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Brown OArwro
Patent white PAINTS
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw'ne
Ship Diana,
Far Sale or Charter.
ALSO,'
firm of Philip Nicklin [y Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
Philapelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
Janwy 4, 1798-
j -At a meeting of the Prejident end Managers,
• this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per share was
• declared fir the lajl half year, <whi(h will be by
them retained, fir the payment of the debts of
the Compdny, agreeable toa refclutitn oftheStock
■ holders the 12 th June la/l.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia & Lancafler\Turupike Com py,
January g misfwuw
Ran away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797. a Negro Man, about 5 feet j or 6 inch
es high, of a y allow complexion ; when spoke to
.and called by his name he has a quick {harp look
•but of his tjm and (hews the white of them very
much ; has tak«D all his eloathes with him, which
ate, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a striped vtft, nankeen
breeches, Clk stockings and ruffled ihirts, and a.
number of other cloath9. The laid Negro under
ftaads farming, and is a good ihoejnaker and car
penter ; he can read and write- tolerably well—lt
I is likely he may f«rg* a pass. Whoever takes up
1 said negro and secures him, so that I get him, (hall
have Thirty DoHars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
SoiAftitAH Mxdpord, living in Stßl £ond, Mary
land, Keut
January %■ 6t
THE AMERICAN LADIES'
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No, 17, south feeond-ftreet—containing
AN elegant Frontispiece of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and hi* Family, in the castle of Olpiuu,
with an Hluftration ; being an account of the princi
pal events in the public li.'e of tkte Marquis, with a
fketeh of the fufferings of himfelf and his unfortunate!
family. A complete Almauack—lo4 ruled pages
f(ir memorandums, &c. alfo,tor accoUiH
of monies paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends—Lifl of births, dea'hs, &c —new
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1 yg8 —containing an Almanack ; 104 rulci
for memorandums and calh account; Duties payable
on goods imported into the United States. Cuftom
oufe fee?, Ac. stamp duties, to «»ke place after the
3 iilDecmber;a lift of the poll towns andorofs-roads
in the United 2t«es ; a variety of ufetul tables, and
' «lher interesting matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, coaftantly keeps for sale, a general
assortment of Merchant's account Ranks, and other |
flat cmaiy goods, and makes tp order books of any
size , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the j
Weft-Indies. (
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Englilh [
and American. D ec . » g t- j
Imported in the brig Eliza, »'
Capt. HAs Tle , from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauteme Wine in Cases, '
Olive Oil in bafcets of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeau* Brandy,
For Sale by I
JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun. r
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine. h
Dec. ~ daw 0
The Sublcriber, n
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inflec
tion since December 1796 are jbala«ced to the 3 ill
ult. and will during the present month "temain
open at hisCountmg-houfe in Chefnut Street for h
their further investigation and fcrut ; ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(1179?. B
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
a:id Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery-, at TVs
Dollars, whete check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafhing
t<m, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of tlie Lotte
ries authorifedby law m any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
diTcountog Bills and Notes of Hand, isle pi
Lands, Hculcs, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
novMiber 15.
NOTICE.
AI.L persons who have any demand* agaiuft
the of WiLUM FLf Ewrp»D, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, taetylum, de
cealed, are rfquefted to exhibit their icciur.ts,
properly atterted I ar.d those who are indtbted
s to the lame, are desired to raake immediate
paj'ment, to
J " r.EO. DOBSON, \
•No. aj, So. Third-flreet. \ r -
January 4 . dtf
FOR SSfLB,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, Chclnut-ftreet,.
One hundred and eighty bales
d BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mumocdies
Baftas Sar.nas
Guzz nahs 'faada Coffaes
Guzzt.s Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palacipoors Rpmall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
j manufactures of Patna.
December i. §
" JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. *5, south Third street,
An exfenflve and general aflbrtment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bell London-mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, affor-
Afakenziesfuptr, patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imjieri*l, diiper, an j
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. 136 to 500, Black -nd coloured Chi
regularly a/Torted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to iad
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cottcji Wires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
r Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and pfeted
Black brulh Feathers * Buttons
And a compleat assortment of Goods, fukable
to the prelent and approaching season, at reduced
prices. Dec. 6. dtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX ton SPINNING, •
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and 12—
back of 110.51, south Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eo<}2w
For Sale by th # e Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Teneriffc Wine
Mqfajfes
Georgia end Carolina Indigo
Ra-xas Duck and one hegjhead of paint
brushes.
N. & J. Freezer. 0 u
JV®. 95, Sonth Front Street. [
Nov. J- dim.
Frefti Raisins.
ASM' cargo, just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut street wharf, from the sloop Va
riety, capt. Halkell, confiftißg of Kegs» Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks ]
of {oft (helled Almonds.——Apply to the Master J
on boai d, or tp '
Jos. Anthony Iff Co.
EKcemher 19 §jt
Imported (via New York) on the °
fliip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for 11
sale by die fpbfcrihor, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second ar.d Thitd Stree.ts, the follow- '
ing articles . c
Maharagonges Chareonna Dortns
Chjntz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslin?
Cillis RomaU Bsndannoes
Nillas & Penfjafoes Chaila Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbao J
MullMuUhar.kerchiefs Palempores y
Patna do. Banares Opium
Leffcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox, "
november 17 tuths/(w S
' ' ' ' 11 -
Chocolate and Mustard, v
of a superior quality manufactured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or _
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter j red. Port and Lilbon Wine, F
l'uitable for exportation or home confuriiptioH.
The higheli price given for Muftard-Sced.
Also fir sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fultians, Shawls, Sic, for sale bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street. ~
nov- 27- m.&th.t.ij.
A Houle in Burlington for bale. N
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two- |
story brick House, with Stables, Carriage- 1
house, and a well improved Garden, in the Citv ec
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wilhes to
SELL. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth u
street, to GEORGE WALKER, d <
IVho has also for Sale, ■
Lots in Washington City, , i„
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal "
harbour. "
December 29. eo7t "
FOR SALE, : I"
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South j
Water-llreet,
A general assortment of China
Ware f
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. LuteAriiigs ---
Do. do. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewinsrSilks
Imperial and Hyson Teas °' d
Long and (hort Nankeens 110
Quick Silver, in tubs an
Holland Gin, iu pipes P*!
Afforded Glals Ware, iu cases
White and brown Havanna Segar.% in boxes
MoiafTes, in fcftgjfieadv pr^
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
1-ondou particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wiues, in quarter calks
Red, yellow ard pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, See. Ac.
nm>, 7- ' JOSEPH SHIS.
War-Office of the Unifed'States,
Jciwary the ifi, J 798.
"ft VT7"fIEREAS frauds hive been in
oi V V otcainins Warrant, for Bounry Lands, duo
it t'l ttw Olfic.r* and SoMirrs of the late Continental
ts, Artuy, by th.' prodo\Sion of forged intlrunic~t«.
t{ ] To cheek in future fuck i-npofitions, it has been
jl t thought aivifeable ; that all persons, having claim.
for bounty lands, whether in their own right, at.
( legal rcjirefentative, or by virtue of any inftrumcnt
r. or deed of trmsfer, be required to forward tteir
claims to the War Office, on or befcre
_ thefirftday ot Ja-uary 1799 in order that such
claims may be duly examined, adjusted and deter
mined upon.
1c ioiiloKHtf such claims, a
the roles heretofore iff:ied from the War Office will
be intiiipeuJable ; and iA.a<j<jirion to what is requir
ed by the said rules, the certificate oi the ackncw-
Icdgeiittpt of a Deed or Powercf Attorney, mufl
a so fet.fpctfe the place of refideyce and occupatioq
ofth.e claimant or per/on making such
mem ; when the pi oof of per (on *1 knowledge
is by a wittkfc or witneifes, thr ir place or places of
residence must be set forth in like manner*
JAMES M'HENftY, Scc'y of War.
Ie Jan. 7- d6w
B A I. L.
Mr. FrancK refpcflfuKy informs hit scholars, and
the public in general, that hi* lVcond praAifing
Ball will he on Tharfiay the ■ tti* at the new A<V
fern My Room South Fturth Strf t,between Chefnut
and Walnut Street— Ladies ricketsto behad by ap
flying tm the IchMars of Mr. Francis, or at his
hcufe No. 70 North Street.—Gentlemen'*
jf tickets oce doflar each, to be had of Mr. Francis,
atthr \caiVmy. or at kishoufe. 1
Mr. Francis ]* .wife informs the Sqbfcriber to the
Sele# Bails, that the next will be o;< I'uelday thq
r- 16th—Tholfc fbbferibers who have not yet received
their tickets are requefled to apply for them as t
-4 bove.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as usual,
. J a P- 7- 4 d4t
0- The owners of the Brigantins
Mercury, William Uron, mafler, captured by
d a Spanish privateer and fqld at Ceuta in last De
cember, may receive intereftißg information ref
pedling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
d * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States wiH render a lervice to th.
: concerned, by inferring tb« above in tbeir news.
d papers. ■ ' Jan- 3.
For bale by the bubferiber,
10 bales Codas
40 do. Baftas
JI do. Mamoody
1 17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
1 do. Gorahs
45 do. M.ragungees
i do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
aj pipes fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
t December 5. 3»w4w
Hyson And Young Hyson Tea,
A few chert- of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner of Second and Pin. streets.
Becepiber 26. cat s
I 1 rench Circulating Library,
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walmit-ftreet,
i TNFORMS those who wist to reenrto the only
mfan ' °{ becoming perfed in the French Lan,
guage, that he has just opened his Library-, ccn-i
tilling pt upwards of i 2 volumes, the best cal.
culated to afford either ufeful inflation, or pica.
f " re ' n ' e options, together with a catalogue '
of th f Library, may be foen at every book-fuller',
in town.
N; 8. All tranflatioßs from and into the French,
Engl.Hi and Spanilh Languages, erecuten with ac
curac) and dispatch. eolm ncv u
FOR SACEI
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. j 5 , the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Atfi, a general assortment of Tools
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move-'
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and serge work ; Bells, clock and watch Diih
Springs, Hands, Glaffe,, P u nice Stone, Emerv
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vices; rurns, Pliers, Chains Ktfy», & c . &c
# Apprentices Wanted.
novgmb£r 3- f&tutf
Landing this day,
From on board th. schooner Two Friends, Dan
ie! Crawley, Master,
80 hhils. and i T„„ • nrT .,
rz pipes 5 J RUM,
FOR SALE BV
George Latimer £sf Son.
us-vfmter g.
*
Wm. Young's Book Store,
r P ™T d r" r^ lhtCOrntr of Chefnut iUeet,
0 EPORT of the Committee of the House of
LV Rcprefentativeeol the United States, appoints
'° rSnr. r1 d repc " Articlts of Impeachment
apmtl VSILLUM BLOUNT, a Senafor of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and nijf
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutioo of
; tr.e Houf. ol Representatives, authorizing the said
: Cwnnnlteeto fit during the recess of Congress, and
' inftr " B'"g fhehi « to enquire, and, hy all lawfui
• means, todifcovcr the whole natur-; and extent
of the o.l,nce where6f the (aid William Biount
parties and
i oftbe House
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAF',
and EDWARD FOX?S Engagements
1 j c of many having been prevent.
4*d, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtammg their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. Ihe j rufteea now inform them, they
are ready tojfTue U,c fame to those who may;/,
p.y within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut S trfe ' r ,
and iho.e who do not, will beconfidercd as rc,
Unquifhing theit daim on the Aggregate I'und
providea for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December TS- .
\VCLVMS. XIII.•1 * J 111 II I
tiomilu laohi'i Wiikly
SIMON S P"if N K t Y' »
PEPPERPOTf
Oa, *> ODZ FOR THE Miff YCJR.
AICTMItrT.
Simon altinul his karp. m re p/eafatit
Than reed of hTanl Arcadia's peejtnl,
And ihauntcth poetry nttepretti!)
Thithird of ancient Greece, * Italy—
Then, fudlenly, ctrueirei a notion
Jo Crop the »toad Atlantic otun i
There feoth fghlt foMime and dreadfu', <■
Wliick Jill tilth hoirnr every head foil — {
Nw, haimi found Sis kittur track, ■
Xhc Fuet npmkfy trips It *J'<
Over the l/nimwjit rapid,
And fi'iibs eacjy J aclinic faphead
Such /hghtifoilic. Jew can efial,.
As is apparent m thf fcquel.
OLD Tim-v, a pe fevering codger,
Ljke debtor dunn'd, a nimble dodger,
Who, hit tug fcampet'd one inch by you',
V/illoevci ilurward* come you i
Whore KMCIopo/ie might bide a cat in,
Hut bald, bAnd, ailchqol-boy t l»',io i
Who never 'yet. by faint or (inner,
Wubrib'tUp Oiy "till aft" dipner ;
Who never 'bites hit a Rial jog,
Nor ftopi hi* ftted (or oats ax g'qfc
But, Jehu-like, drives alltlie world rmrid,
A* f wittis top by.iruant twirl'd round;
Who Irurt at love-(iek Poetaster,
But puff* produftion* of a mailer ;
Before whom Gundeor'* gorgeous palaces
Melt, like » rfwain'a lantaflic fallauc* :
Now jogs the Bard with (hag bark elbow,
And aims, with lifted feythe, a follblow,
To level St voiKi reputation,
Utile*! the Pott ««iawl narration,
. A kind ot Hudibraftic fummarv
Of politic* and other flummery :
Of muter* ir«gic»l ar.d queer.
Which mark the annall of last year;
And, with a coeftc low and p'eafant.
With people happy through tlie present.
Now, gentle Reader, uke thetrout>le
• o mount mv nag, he carries double,
1 mean mr Pegasus, so antick.J .
Anti hi 3 him earner 'c rots the Atlantis,
White we'll aa dole « bride and groom, fttck,
ApcJ ride, like wi'ches ©o a brexymftick.!
And fir (I mad Galfia'* coast we'll lighten.
And then, to Pant t avelrigf* on,
Where makes a curled rout,
And fee what Frenchmen ate about :
Here all's contuT:on, worse confounded
Than *t» in Mifloo's Hfll abounded.
When Death and Satan, Rout andfurly,
Excited horrid hUrly burly,
And threiten'd war, with grim battalions
Of ifcfperate Sam Culoites rafcallions I
Five tyrants, chosen from the mob, t tf
Well know# to ««e»y dirty job,
By nature meant to bore and he£lo» ye,
- Compute the omnipotent DizeAory !
What cruel LhefcJclU> w scarry QO,
While Ate blow a the blading clarion !
Behold their Cojfiesa commander, v -
W+io beara the palm from Alexander!
Behold him inajching in urrorem i
The 'frighted Alp* reced* before him j
The embattled Itgiop* of Vienna,
He value* not a single penny ;
Mantua surrenders, Wurmfei'* taken,
The German Empire sadly shaken.
The mighty Charlea meets dire milhap,
Who drive* to manage such a chap;
'J he Emperor trembles oo hia (broae,
And fearetfj think* hii head bit ow»;
But ruminates on fad affair*,
And qukt' hia will, and fay* hi* prayers.
Now Frenchmen tob the Virgin Maty,
>'or (land in awe of Pope* Ti»ra l/fJI
Bat bid Italta's peafanu learn
The art to tmh and overturns ~
Provoke, * ith vigour so furpiifing,
A rage, ffl' tewlutioniaing ;
mob, by great exertion,
That Liberty d French Coercion,
Tho* noted uchty different name.
In fafl and eflenee are the fame.
Such principlea in many placei
Ot Commonwealth* '-"ey make the bales,
• Which commonwealth*, I'll riflt a fouj,
Will lalt—at least a mon.b, or two.
Of many battlea might we lell.
On Rhine, on Sambre, and Moselle i ,
' Of b r'idv IkirmiO*, fad dcleat,
Ot Moreau'a wooderful reueat;
Bui we, .perhaps, by fucb procedure.
Might »re oi|rlclvc#, as wcil as reader.
Then let us lake a traofieut glance
To vytw the interiour part of France,
And fee, by mobocrat did'acted,
The part of Satan overafted !
revolution# every moon.
Secure damefortune'a Outdowy boon ;
The w ilea me», the priibo. haul d to ;
1 heaimiea too, by tj[i»m» call d in ;
Theconituu ion thu* intnu^L»g,
To give the patriot* a ling-tng ! .
Of cwoDitcftort, who were henett,
One bmilh'd i*. ike other non eft I
And Laaiflntois more than fifty,
1 hat liberty might flourifh i hrirty»
Without defenct, without * hearing,
Or anv marks of gu.lt appearing,
Are lent by freedom's mild decree,
To end their days beyond the sea ;
Or elle, perhaps, a feuttled boat in,
To stand a louly chance for floaung I
See fitter Gallia make wry face*,
To lurt 'meticaoenibrai.es,
With bulletins, arret! abusive,
Claims all burtrade, by rightf'xelufive.
Now lawlef*, as a drunken pirate,
she llorms, andblufttrsata high rate ;
And imitating fierce Algiers,
Send* fortbher horde* of privateer*.
A cruel gang of fell marauder*,
Are filled by Direaors' order*,
To bid each unarm'd brig defiance,
plunder verteU in alliance!
Now England lend* her powcriulaid,
A firm prbteflion to our trade,
Betabouts buceaneert with lad knocks,
_fnd help* us out of many a bad box !
Britain, invincible at sea.
Before whom Don* and Monfienr* fl-e,'
Ha* block'd up Cadi 7., Brest, and to forth,
,#nd Dont, and Mcnficura dare not go forth ;
,4nd Mynheer*too, eoop'd up in Texel,
With an* tr foam «*oti;h to <ex hell J
Put ft ill the devil » bit of one can
Get by the Engfclb Admiral Duncan.
Jt length De Winter venture, out.
The coast is clear he makes no doobt ;
Thick*lluncan will not treat a man ill,
Who calmly coorfet through the channel..
But loon, the lattet, w*'}oy'4
I O find ihe Hollander decoy'd,
Purt'ue* him like audaciou* eagle
Inchace of plover, fntpe, orieagull!
But now w* such a 'fray get fight on,
iufebrh.g the cortch shell of old Urton ;
- 40 vMt*Uu<h«battl*'« wcll a going,. ,
ltitf let thegrfen-ey'd dog a blowing*
i d Proteus charge with thirty pounders,
Or a of Bounder* !
Grim Neptune leave Mil* /fmphitrue,
Av.d join tbe battle, hotly tony !
Goda flask from e*ety point of compaf ,
<ndm»ke a devil of a rumpus ! I -
But flop S your mercileft reviewers
Witt fpn 'he ba«4on fatire'a skewer*,
fai introducing such tntchinety,
To'curtberbis poetic scenery.
4 J.int be'a'l Iht* pagan (It ff,
Mil in Enelifh, plain »oough,
Tnat l>tic*a Dmchmen sadly treated, -.
' Vput A tmirtl Wir.rer't flw de'ea ed,
•to rsufutV vr#-1s nine orten,
m •'j, ,d fcrl.'d a hot'id heap of men,
.. . man 00,
Eut wa* defltoyM by Brinlh cannon j
And many • Duicbmao mxle a TTioti-m,
. >'4*beyond the oceaoi * »•
Where cajiuio De»tt, h>» iU imfurl'd,
And anchor'd him ip '.'oilier world.
Behold the fsmous .i.lmiul Jrtat*
Ha* Spaniard? irtfc.-i a. tail and »e*vice,
Saattert th-ir (leti, like graf.oi bay days,
. A :d taket thciri»nta Trintd idas!
But not so many tou d he win lioce]
'1 hey itiadehim /Idmiral Loid it. Viucenti !
For Spaniard thiakihij mide i*,
It he defeod* himlct in Cadiz ;
Amd force n«r art cm ever make him
. j jJCive hngtifhmen achaoceto !a*e bim.
Fioin Eur-qae turn my bounding P^gafiis,
J Whtre fighting fellow, make a planuy liif*,
To b)i'tiL Columbia'! peacefulthorci,
| Whe'e no rude din of battle roars ;
Where pl< nty (ill* her wiener Ixfk t,
.fed wealth unlock* hi* casket;
Health Urines lie nerveof Huidy farmer,
Ani tints the clmk of ruddv charroer;
Where once waa nonght but c'clait howli.ig,
With-fwamps scarce littn pallute owl in;
Where meagre famine ofteodrtil'd us ;
Where Indians tom.hawk'd and kil)'d us,
WequafF tl|ebn'>iper, smoke cigar,
Nor dread the howl of Indian war !
Where lately were but two or three men,
A»e many haidy uandaof freemeti !
Wneie liemloJis gtew of moiilliou* size,
Town* v:>las, cities, empire*, rife I
Tho' Providence our patience trie*
With jacobins aad Hessian flies —
Tho' death, lellarm'd * ith borrid cleaver,
Qepopulates with yellow fever j
Still not a na'too out of leveo,
• "Is favour'd Halt so much by Heayen,
Thanka to our liars, (editious plana
Of Democratick^rtizans,
Have hitherto been alldeleated.
And faftion't Hydra form, retreated,
Feeblj emit* difeordant veil,
From Baclie or Grcattleaf'a dirty cell,
Apollo views, with honelt pride,
Hi* Fede al fide,
For scarce an Amifederal noddy,
Haa half a foul to bieft htt body!
But Benny Bacbc,l'll beta bowl,
Onceawri'd a puny, faftious foul,
But lack a day! who would hare thought it 1
For half a crowo a Frenchman bought it!!
way both arch and funny,
That fellow has for making money t
It true it he, as people fay^tis,
He'* paid by France for printing pedis !
How much he has I cannot tell,
But this it true, 1 know lull well,
A cent a ream, tot all his lies,
Will make him rich before he die* 1
la Boston garret*, finks, and bye fhopi,
Full many a fmirch'd, feditiom Cyclop*,
It* forging lie* for Chronicleera,
Whilejutlice clamours for hi* earl !
Bat why of Jacobins complaining ?
Their number and tbcii Brength are waning.
How fad these ragamuffians dwindle,
Nor dare fedit ion's faggot kindle,
Except imported defperadoe*,
Bog trotter*, nated for b'avadoei,
.iud vagabonds not worth a diver,
With now and then a negro driver,
Who, should methinka be placed in one row,
With Swanwick, Gallatin and Monroe,
An A these fine fellow* Hiould be led, -
By Lyon, (lurdy <4utifcd, s
Who ought to howl with broken head •»
At we conceive with great humility,
For lackof common place civility I
The poet think* it would be pretty,
' Sometime* in Philadelphiacity,
To view, while Congref* ia in feffioo,
Some fuel; cjeleftable procefiion.
Butt hen there are some decentchap*,
Who once were Jacobins, perhapt,
And feela fupcrftitiou* terropr,
'Gainfi owning they have Seen in errour ;
. Thafe halfway folk*, will/hist about
/Indj'iin with Federalize, no doubt,
Revere our government and law*,
dyingcaufe.
When ourfirft Magistrate wascl)ofen,
Dame France wa« anxioai to impose one ;
la faffion'tSjnod was c grand debatd,
And JefFcrfon proposed a candidate,
J.otig vif.ig'H J»cos, lpruce yfdet*,
Dame Dilcord's cohort o 1 cadet*,
Are marfliard utider French proteAion,
In aid of JefFerfon'a elctSlion.
But vaia the effort* of thele fellows;
In vain each Demo fpeuts and bellows,
Urges to please Dame Prance, our fitter,
T ill throat and Jungs are all.a bliftcr,
And swear* Ve ought to be unanimous,
To worship allies so magnanimous,
Bcc?.uft she made a deal of fnfs
To help herfelf by helping u»;
That thii our cont'nenf should be ten4er'd
For services which France hus render'd ;
Tbat Jefferfon's the vfry man
To give efTefi to such a plan.
In vain, I fit/, is all this racket,
With now and then a bribe, to back it.
The man, whom fag'smuft revere,
Whose Came admits of no compeer ;
The man who has been faithful found,
His country's frierid, whan fortune frown'd ;
The man, whofpite of- Gallia's art,
Is throu'd in every Federal heart ;
The man, who justly may look down,
On paltry things that wear a crown ;
Whose virtue*, even foes declare,
While envy shrinks to pale despair,
Prtfiding o'er a happy nation,
Adorns his elevated station.
The timid Muse dares not relate
Each wife CoOgreffional debate ;
How every auditor so fad is.
When braggart Swiss, and frith paddies,
With pride and nonfcnfe, overweening,
AUfurdly "blunder round their meaning
Fellows, who have combin'd to level;
With their friend Democrat, the devil,
Tear up the pillars of society,
Pull down thefabric of propriety ;
Give meekcy'd piety a flogging,
A"d fend morality a jogging ;
Fellows, who sped "away betimes,
To seek a refuge from their crimes ;
Who, if transported back to Europe,
Fach there, would lack a new rope,
I fay, it isnotmy titention.
One word about these folks to mention,
Left Gunn so fierce, or Blount so cruel,
Should challenge Sptakey to a duel!
Full many fine things might be written,
Of Blount's deep plot to join with Britain-,
And make the Spaniards rue the sorry day,
When he (houM drive them out of Florida !
Vut then, perhaps, 'twould be a pity,
To interfere with our Cnramittee,
Who put in motion wheel and pulWy,
Rcfolv'd to trace the matter fully
Th«' many a Demo, evil fated,
Confciou* that he is implicated,
Ha* fwora the plot they fhan'*. develope,
Not even should they rip all hell up !
Bcfidcs all this, we fear, moreover.
If we should discover,
Some one may swear, tho' other* doubt it.
That we ourfelven knew all about ir.
And tlicn you fee, tho matter's plain,
W« (ball be lore'd, like ourßomaync,
Full sorely too, agaiafl our will,
1 • testily aga nft Sir Bill
The prtifpe& {natchn, , T
At folks who quarrel at the Natchet,
Our troops with Spain are sent to join,
To tun the territorial line ;
The huHghry-Dont excite disputes '
Tbe Indians a 5 ike pack «f brutes ;
1 he yeomen rife, tbe retittcr'v fettled,
And Dousare not a little nettled.
> Now Mcßts. Ellicot and Pope,
V ; By fent, «prcls hope,
Tl.y f«r.fa<JD'«s would iiefo fuiilird,- j oiv<
A« not to hjve the fort* ditr.oiiJVJ, ' j n f
For if they JiJ, 'twoulcf N- a pity, gf ,
And violate the treaty ; I ta 1
But high Don Manuel Gayofo, I ;
Wa' sure the treaty did'rt go to ! j a!'"
At lecgth frem Kpain he has his oriUrs, I giv(
l o retregrlde wi'liin tf e borderi: j t
And Dim, asveu'd as people eauld bt, |
l.uve ev'ry fortreiii as it should he I ,
We will not step to (lite the bickering, j
Twixt foppilh Yrujo, m'.:ily Pickering ; J ' ;
l ' Andhajr the termer, all forlorn, I clai
Crept:hra' the fhiall end «f th,' bora ; I of
Trr tl,n with many other cap«r», I a n
May Ckta d»(h in Hartf.irJ paper?; I t ; OJ
For Hartford futh tkuntrs tan huroifh, |
In brighter lay! thau we can furnifh.
, , . I tin
But Miife is under contribution, I ,
To the *r!_«; uc Ccnllitutioi;, I
Left this our pttby ode be lo.'l on I
Commercial wiMaiiJ tars of Boston. I tha
Bcftoni«r»-built.a ftattly frigate, I en
And undertook tit man and rig it, I
Which fit fedition't fops afc jwljng, I ,
And madden'd Jiccbiij> tj howliug !
"l he fGS-ef.iid Frigate, on a day J mo
Appointed, wis to glide a*jy, J to
To hoary Occ»o'ao«zy bid, I
Wi;h Neptune then and there to wed. I
The wifh'd fcrday arriv'd, whenlo ! I
Mis« Constitution would not g«. I P r ®
How Jacobinic sinners feoff I w
Heeauf: the faiU to travel off ! I lo*
They swore lhe was prophetic wench, j fy
And forefaw trouble from the French, I an .
If jhe to federal felly kept tune, I
And fought the arms ot Matter Neptune. I
At length in merry mooil (he wen{ in ; I y°
And floats her natural element in, I th(
And may Die ever triumph there, I na
The watry god's peculiar care. I
My willing Mufie ispleas'd tofquint her I f r o
Eye on worthy Walpole Printer, I p el
Whbwraps in paper of eath week, I t j n
Whatxelifhei of true antique ; I
To greet each good and letter'd mau, I an '
A Journal form'd on generous plan, I qu
None of your dull mechanie, Dutch' things, I tin
But fraught with poetry, and such things, I
With politicians, wife as Solon, I , w
WithPaEASßiii.HrKMiT.SpoiinEE.Cote)*, I ,
With glinted, pithy, pretty Pete*, I J-" 1
Whou Ladies <,all the charming creature, > 1 be
And chaunt his sentimental metre, j I cil
Which tells how Solomon, fe ipfc, I r | f
Coas'd into bed a leerirtggypfy— |
My mind with rapture swells,' when e'er I
Comsmplaic brother Hudin Bui ; ' |P e
And CnTK, with an eagle ken, I fill
SkiU'd 10 difeetn the faltering pen, I w(
Who 4blj plies the polilh'd file, I r j (
To I ive oew gl«fst« Churchill's style ; 1
And ftrivei to make each rhyming elf, I
Aipure* writeraahiinfelf, I 0
And bids inftru&ed Taste to fcarn, I fr<
The found of Delia Crufca's hoi n ; I f»
Uutfwift to Elyfian fields elope, I
Hearkening to Poetry and Pope.
To Common Sinsc and sober Mohalmt, I A
Who highly ornaments our thorough lifl, I' a
Tothom with wife Apollo's leave 1, I to
Erefi a monumantum a.vi. I -a <
hTow courteous reader, since a whil«, I tv
To sing ia Delia Crufcan flyle, I th
By frolic fancy borne along, I j[j
We stem's the cataract or soikg ! I
*Tis timeT think, with aching neart, I „
ForMufc, and you, and I, to part, I
Still cherifliing the hope,'however, I W
That we throe gentlefolks, so clever, I bl
When eke another fcafon passes, I []■
' ' IWay meit onfummit of Parnassus.; I-
Like crasy Sybil, who did mutter once, I J
As sage ipollo gJive her utterance, I
To trill »new year'sode fublinier, I th
Tba,n ever flow'd from lip of rhymer ! I aj
--- WtJVei;riLlfr- < r—l
Wegociatton At LISLE. , ji«
Official Documents laid before Parliament. 1 di
(Continued from yesterday's Gazette )
I shall not attempt to follow the French I r<
minister through the very elaborate and cer-1 p
tainly able speech he made in reply, with I I
V view to convince me that the enquiry into I
the extent of rily full the strong- I t<
eft proof the Dir'eftory could furnifh of their I ai
pacific intention, and the shortest road they I d
could take to accomplish the desired end. I a
It was in order to give aftivity to the ne- I I
gociation, (afitver was his word) and to | d
prevent its stagnating, that this demand
made so fpeeifically ; and he intimated to I n
me, that it wsis impossible for the Direftory I q
to proceed till a full and fatisfaftory answer I
; had been given to it. I interrupted him I p
here by faying, their manner of acting ap- I u
peared to me calculated to decide the nego- J t
ciation at once, not to give it aftivity, since I f
it must be known T could not have powers I si
of the description he alluded to : and even I o
supposing I had, the admitting it would be I t
in faft neither more nor less than a complete I n
avowal of the principle itfelf, which once a-1
greed to, nothing would be left to negoci- I t
ate about. The other Frcnih plenipotentiary I c
interposed here, .by faying, that would not I t
be the cafe ; many articles -would Jlill remain to I t
be proposed, and many points for miportani dif- I r
cujjton. I said, every word I heard seemed I c
to present difficulties. Without replying I t
to me, the firjl mentioned minijler went on by I <
endeavoring to prove, that the avowal of j
having powtrs to a certain extent, did not 1 ]
imply the nectffity of exerciling. them ; that I i
it was the a?owal alone for which they con-1 ]
tended, in order to determine at once the I <
form the negociation was to take ; that the I 1
note aud the time prescribed in it, were in I i
consequence of the most positive orders from I :
the Direftorv ; and that if I drew from it
a conclusion different from the assurances
Ithey had made me in the name of the Di
reftory, I did not make the true inference.
I replied, that although the prefcribir.g the
day on which the qneftmn was put to me
as the term within whjch I was to give my
answer to it, was both a very unusual and
abrupt mode of proceeding ; yet as a day
was much more than fufficient for the pur
pose, I should forbear making any particu
lar temark on this circumstance : that as to
the inference to be drawn from the positive
manner in which they appeared to maintain
the question put to me, .1 really could not
make it different from that I had already
cxpreffed . .that the reverting, after an in
terval of two months, to a question already
answered, and which question involved the
fate of the negociation, certainly could not
be considered as wearing a very conciliatory \
appearance. That in regard to my answer,
it could not be different from that I had
given before : that my, full powers, which
were in their hands, were as extensive as any
could be, and it did sot depend an me Ao
1 '•\ve th:m mor'e or W#4a*k»4e ; but tlat J
! m fati their question went not tothe.extcnt the (
of th?ir full powers, but to require of me and
ta declare the nature of my inllruftions ; qu'ri
and oh this point they cAtainly would for- pnn
give hi* if Idid not speak out tiH such tunc 'hou
I alj the circumstances negociation C3l- nit- !
I led u;»on ni'e to 3o it. . s
The French minister ft rove to prove to it 01
I me, what he had bffore attempted, that the aries
I claiming a right of enquiry info the nature I he
I of the ftifcretionary authority confided in tent
I a nrinifter, by no means irrtplied an inten- to a;
I tion of repairing of him to aft up to its cle
I utmost limits. I observed, if no such in- I
I tint ion rxilled, why institute the enquiry? en r
I and if it did extft, why not fay so at once ? bein
I He said, what we now a(k is little more ferv
I than a matter offofm ; when yen have giv- tabh
I en us your answer, we (hall follow it up ed,
j by another step, which we are ordered to our
| take. I said, my answer was given two the
I mouths ago ; that although I was ready non
j to give it them again, and in writing, as the
I due to their note, yet, as it could not be rem
I different, I did not fee why they should not ed t
I proceed immediately to the other step, by tha
I which I was told the question was to be sol- • ten
I lowed up. It would be premature, said the mui
I French minister ; but in drawing up your and
I answer, do not forget the force of the argu- do,
I ments I have used, or in your report to nisi
I your court, the assurances we have given of at <
I the earnest wish of the Directory to termi- faic
I nate the war. of
I I replied, that I still must maintain, that the
I from the manner in which they tb»jught«pro-! pof
| per to define full powers, I'could fee no dif- j tog
I tinftion between acknowledging the power pet
I and admitting the principle, and that the infl
I question itfelf could r.ot he 'put with any o- tio
I ther intention—(Your lordihip will obftrve, me
I from the subsequent notes which passed be- Er
( I tween us, that I was perfeftly grounded in me
j this afTertion); thatin my report st hey Alight to
> 1 be fully assured I should aft up to that cob- inj
) j ciliatory spirit, which, from the earliest pe- thi
1 riod'ofthe negociation, had always decided fio
J my sonduft; and that, inauspicious as ap- eaj
I pearancei were, I certainly would be care- eft
I ful not to make them look hostile. At the th<
word hoftile,both the French plenipotsntia- re<
I ries were thoft warm in their protestations, tei
1 that nothing could be less so; that the idea wa
I of tbt negociation breaking off was as far ttv
I from their thoughts as from their wishes. X au
I said, that although I heard this with pleasure I 1
I yet, I could not avoid adverting to fafts, be
j and that wheri, itifliead of an aflfwer, and the foi
j favourable answer which I had every reason ce
I to expeft, I received only the repetition of th
I a demand whiuh had been already fatisfied ni
J two months ago, I certainly could not think fei
I this a good omen. If it did not bode an to
j immediate . rupture of the treaty, it as- fu
I furedly did not announce a near and success- to
1 ful termination of it. The above mentioned
J minister persisted I was naiftaken ; that the m
bufineft would end fpecdily ; that speed was ta
I their wiih, and speed with peace for its ob- ve
j . at
I On breaking up our, conference, I said, th
L that I took it for granted we should meet d«
I again at the usual hour, on Sunday. He nt
■_ I said, that perhaps it might not be necessary, ar
j but tVl',lt thef let mc Know rr
I is time ; and this conveyed to me the firft i- pi
I dea of what has since takes place. tl
j I enclose to your lordship the note A, I
ch J received in this conference from the French si
er-1 plenipotentiaries, and the answer B, which tt
ith I I made to it yesterday morning at 10 a.m. tr
ito I At 6p. m. the note C, was transmitted fa
ig- Ito me; to which at Bp. M. I returned, the n
eir I answer D, by Mr. Boss, whom I sent in or- tl
ley I der that he might bring me the paffparts I t!
id. I asked for ; but a quarter before 10 p?m. M. u
ne- I Derche, fecrerary of the French legation, \i
to I delivered to me the paper marked E; and it
I this, morning at 9 a. m. I replied by the 1.
to I note F, which immediately produced that ii
jry I marked G. 1
ver I The notes fetit me by the French pleui- o
i.m I potentiaries speak for themselves ; and it-is 'n
ip- I unneccflary to enter into any reflections on- d
jo-1 them. lam willing to hppe that the an- e
ice I fwers I have made were such as .became the ii
ers I fitnation in which I stand, the importance t
(en los the caufc intrusted to me, and the steady 1
be I but temperate, conduft which the spirit of c
ete I my inftrufti.ons enjoin, me to hold. g
e a-1 It was my wilh to give every opening to d
>ci- I the- French pleniponentiaries to recall the vi- t
ary I olent steps they had taken | and, if poflible
not I to convince them of its extreme improprie
nto I ty. And it was with this view, and with a
dif-1 most anxious desire not to exclude all hope
ned I of the restoration of peace, that I determin
ing I ed on suggesting the idea of our meeting
by I once more .before I left Lisle.
of I This meetiag took place to-day at noon ;
not I I opened it by observing, that the several (
hat I notes they had received from me fiace the
:on-1 preceding evening had been too exprefiive
the j of the surprise I felt at the measure the di
the I reftory had thought proper to adopt, to 1
e in I make it necessary forme to enlarge upon it
rom I in this conference ; and indeed my sole mo
rn it ' tive for suggesting that it might be for our
nces mutual fatisfaftion that it should be held,
Di- was, becaufc that thi* measure appeared to
nee. me to be in such direst contradiftion to the
; the very strong assurances I had so conitantly
Ime and repeatedly heard from them, and to the
:tny pacific intentions with which they declared
and they were sent, that it was my earnest wiih
day (before I considered their conduft as forcing
pur- me to a step which must so materially affect
ticu- the success of the negociation) to be perfeft
as to ly certain that I understood clearly and dif
fitive tinftly the precise meaning of their official
ntain notes. On their admitting that nothing
1 not could be more reasonable than that I should,
ready on so important a point, require explanation
in in- or more fatisfaftory to them than to give it
ready me (as far as lay in their power), I proceed
d the ed by faying, that it appeared to me that I
d not wa? called upon to produce immediately my
atory fjill pojvers, or rather my inftruftions (for
ifwtr, however different these were in themselves,
had in their demand they seemed constantly
which bler.ded); and that if either I refufed to con
is any lert to this, or if, on consenting to it, it was
me to found that I was not authorised to 'reat on
it they laid down, I mis then in
it the fpaoc of twenty-four hours to leave Lisle
ie and return to my .court ; and that { was re
; quired to obtain full authority to admit this
r- principle, if it was tfifhed the negociation
tc Ihoutd proceed. This I said appeared to
1- nle to be the evident fcnfe of the notes, and
I begged to k.iow whether I had mistaken
:o it or not ? One of the French plenipotcnti
ie aries said, " you have underltood it cxaiSly ;
re I hope yon will equally underfland the in
in tention of the French government > which is
n- to accelerate peace by removiug every obfta
ts cle which ftand3 in its way."
n- I replied, that having'.now no dbubt left
en my mircd'as to their exaft meaning, atid
; ? being quite fare, notwithstanding the ob
re fervation they had made, j'avaii jam. la ■ueri
v- table intention de leur note, it would, 1 fear
jp ed, be a very unprofitable employment of
to our time to argue either on the nature of
vo the principle they au'nounced 3s a fine quta
iy non, to even a preliminary diffcuffion, or on
as the extreme difficulty of reconciling the'pe
be remptory command with which they
ot ed their million, to the pacific profefjions
by that accompanied it j that if they were de- %
01-. termined to pertift in this dtmand, it
he much better to avoid all useless altercation ;
ur and nothing in that cafe remained for met®
;u- do, but to ask for my.pafiports, and to fig
to nify to them my intention of leaving France
of at an early hour the next morning. They,
ni- said, they had their hands tied by an arrete
of the direftory, and were bound to observe
lat the conduft they had followed by the fnott
ro-1 positive orders ; and although we remained
lif- together some time longer, not a hint drop
ver ped from them expremve of a with, that
; he instead of going myfclf !fi»r new inftruc
o- tions, I (hould cither write for them by a
ve, messenger, or obtain them by fending to
be- England one of the gentlemen who are with
in me. I endeavored by every indireft means
jht to fugged to them the necessity of adopt
on- ing some such modification, if they meant
pe- that their wishes far peace, iatheexpref
led fion of which they were this morning more
ap- eager than ever, should meet with the flight
ire- eft degree of credit. I again brought to
the their recollection that I was authorized to
tia- receive any propoi'al, any they
ras, tendered to me, but that they mutt be a
dea ware that if was not possible for me to alter
far the orders I had received, or to afiume an
I authority with which I was riqt invested.
ure I dwelt particularly and repeatedly on my
fts, being competent to take any thing they said
the for reference ; but this availed nothing cx
ifori cept drawing from one <if them a remark,
i of that the full powers which authorised a mi
fied nifter te hear proposals, were widely dif
ink ferent from those which would enable him
:an to accede to them ; and that it was such
as- full powers that the dircdiory required me
ess- to fo}icit.
Ned An cafy answer presented itfelf to this
the mode of reasoning ; but I few no advan
was tage to be derived from prolonging a con.
Ob- verfation, which, after the pofitfye declar
ation they .had made, could lead to no
aid, thing I therefore ended the conference Iry
aeet declaring my resolution to begin my jour-
He ney at a very early hour the next morning,
ary, and by faying, that immediately on my ar
iow~ /fat m Ewgtmid I wuuUt »Huke ftii re
rft i- port of every thing that had pa (Ted since
their arfiral.
I I trull, my lord, t not incur cett
:nch sure for having declined ,to offer in dlftinSt
hich terms to wait at Lisle till I could know hrs
m. majesty's pleasure on the peremptory propo
tied fal'made to me : Bnt when I considered the
, the nature of the proposal itfelf, the avowal
i or- that this would not be the lajl, nor perhaps
rts I the molt humiliating -condition required of
.M. us, and the imperious ftvle with which I
ion, was enjoined to depart in twenty-four hours
and it was utterly impoffibls for me to afiume a
the language or affect a manner that could be
that interpreted into solicitation and entreaty :
I ft It rayfelf called upon to treat the whole
ileui- of this extraordinary proceeding with calm
it-is "ness and temper; and notwithstanding the
is on- deep and poignant concern I mult feel at an
an- event which I fear will remove all probab ji
ff the ity of an immediate pacification, I trust
:ance that in the expression of this sentiment I
eady. have not used a language unbecoming the
it of character with which I am vested, or the
greatness of the Sovereign and country whose
ig to dignity and interests it is my primary duty
ie vi- to consult and maintain,
ffible I have the honot to be,
iprie- With great refpeft,
•ith a My Lord, yon* Lordship's
hope ' Most obedient humble servant,
■min- (Signed) MALMESBURY.
eting ( T« If continue,}.)
oon ; TREATY
:veral Of OfFenfiveandDefeafive Allianeebetween
e the the French Repub/L and the Kin%
•eflivc of Sardinia.
e di
it, to Ratified by the council of fire hundred on the
ion it iftßrurraire (0&.4 t ).a»d by the council ot
ancients OH the 4th of the fame month fO.>
e mo- .
toher 14.)
'1 1 j The executive direflorv of the French repub
-1 1«C, and hi- majehy the k ng of Sardinia, heinjj
detirous,,f>y. every in V lrir P*wer, 2nd by
0 l ™ # the most intimate utii.jrtof their relpeclive in.
lantly Cere fts, to retribute atfped.hly as poffible_to «1»»
to the restoration of that jieace which is the r. c
clared their wilhes, andwh:cb will secure t.ic '' : p '■ ; i
1 tvi'l-i and of Isaiy, have decerjruneri to en
terinto a trtaty ot rfye & deJei.fivt adiaitce j
or " n S an ,i have charged with full
a cSt,viz.on ih.c part of the ex cutive direftory
erfe£t- of Vrtnch rtpuh ir, citizen Henry ja:n«s
nd dif- William CJitUe. t eneral of the dirdion m the
official irinies of tke rrpu!»!ic ; an I oik tilt ut his
othinf majeP.v the kinii of Sardinia, the ehcvilirr D.
fhoulcT Clement Damain de Prio-io, knijjb: 01 the Grant
• ' Crols of tho order of «Sainn Maurice and Lazi
ination fil y ecretAr y ofrnte" »<i his mail's de
g' ye !t partrrient f r foreign al"a rs, and prefideul ot t lie
roceed- home dtoaitmoit ; \iho,' after exchanging
that I their relative powers, cncliided as follows :
ely my 1. There stall 'ne amoffsalivf and defenfive
ns /for alliance Uetween'iie Freiwh r?p.thlic and the
ri kin" of S- dinia until the period of continental
nlelves, Xhis alliance iha'lxhen become purely
lttant.y j and flia'l he eitihlifhed upon 4 hjfi«
to con- jmfeiatitc to the reciprocal interests o! botfi pov ■>
,it was er! ,, •
rcat on I 2, Thr prrfent hivinj lo • i?v ob ? tto hi.lcn the rtftiraliau of peace, and ta feeure .
ihe future tranquillity o) Italy, its rxecMtiimtlur
ing the present war fniil bt dire<£led solely a
gainst the emperor of Germany, he being the
only continental power that prefe'nts obftaeles to
wilhts so salutary. His m»j£fty the Icing of Sar
dinia shall remain neuter with regard to Eng
land ami to the other powers Hill at war with
i hr French republic.
3. The Frtncfc republic and his Sardinian
nujefly guarantee reciprocally, by a " 'he m ' ins
it. their power, their refpeftive poflellions ]
which they sow hold in Europe during the ex- (
ifttnCe of the present alliance. The two p>»w- (
eis (hall unite their forces against thecoinmou '
enemy externally, and (hall givf no aid, direflly
or indirectly, to the internal enemies of either. ]
4. The contingent of troops which hit majes
ty the king of Sardinia (hall furnifc immediate
ly in coufequence of the present treaty, (hill be
800 c infantry, and loc« cavalry, and 4® pieces
ofeannmi. In cafe the two powers (hall think
it ntceffary to augment their contingent, such
augmentation shall be concerted and regulated
by comtniflioners mvefted with full powers to
tiiat effefi by the executive direftory and his
niajelly the king of Sardinia.
5. This contingent of troops and artillery shall
be ready and assembled St Novarra, viz. 500 ca
valry, 4CCO infantry, and twelve field pieces by
the 30th of Germinal current (April 19) and
the remainder in a fortnight after.
This contingent (hall be maintained at the
•xpence of hi; majesty the king of Sardinia, and
shall receive orders from the commander in
chief of the French array in Italy.
A fepavate convention fettled in concert with
.the commander in chief of the French army (hall
regulate the nature ct the service of this contin
gent. ' S
6. The troops which form this contingent,
shall participate, in proportion to the number
which maybe under arms in the contributions
which (hall be levied from the conquered c un
tries ; reckoning fiom the day of the union of
the uontingenf to the army of the republic.
f. The French republic promises to procure
to his majesty the king of Sardinia, at the pe
riod of a general or continental peace, all the
advantages which circumftanees may psrrait
bim to obtain.
8. Neither of the oontrafling powers (ball
conclude a separate peace with the common ene
my, and no armistice (hall be agreed to by the
French republic iu which his Sardanian majffty
is not included.
9. A" the contributions impofedon the ftaUa
of his Sardanian majesty which are not yet paid
up, (hall cease to be demandtd immediately af
ter the exchange of the ratifications of the pre
sent treaty.
ia. The ftimi things, which from the fame pe
riod (hall be made in the dates of his majesty
the king of Sardinia to thr French troops <>rto
prifoivers of'tvar, and also those which may have
already been made in virtue of private contrails,
and which h'ave *ot yet been paid for by the
French republic, (hall be returned in kind to the
troops forming the contingent of hi« Sardinian
majesty : and if the amount of the funiiAiings
ftiould exceed the wants of the contingent, the
overplus (hall be repaid iD fpecic.
11. The two contra<Sing powers (hall imme
diately appoint commissioners charged to «ego
ciate in their name a treaty of commerce agree
ably to the basis stipulated in Article 7. of the
treaty of peaee concluded at Paris between the
French republic and the king of Sardinia,—
Meanwhile the posts .and all other commercial
relations (ball be re-eftablilhed without delay i«
the fame manner as they were before the war.
ii. The ratification., of the present treaty of
alliance (ball be exchanged at Paris in the short
est delay possible.
Done and signed at Turin on the 16th of
Germinal (Aprils), jth year of the French re
public, (Kign+4} ——
H. CL A R K F,
Climent Dumain.
The executive directory ratify and lign the
present treaty of alliance with his majesty the
king of Sardinia, negotiated in the name of the
French republic by Henry .Tames Clarke, gene
ral the division, appointed by an order of the ex
ecutive direflory on the "I,3th Ventnfe last, and
chirped with inftruilions to the absve effect.
Done at the national palace on the lid Ger
minal, sth year of the French republic.
COUNCIL of FIVE HUNDRED.
November 3.
Malibran called the attention of the Coun
cil to the means taken to fulfil the promise
of government, made ta the defenders of
their country. He proposed to change the
obfeure name of the Fauxbourg Saint Mar
ceau to that of Fauxbonrgh Italic ; and
t© ere& a monument to the glory of that in
vincible army ; and to grant to the Pacifi
cator of the Continent, Buonaparte, a pen
sion of 300*000 livres. and a traitment mi
litairc of 500,000 Itvres, one half reverfiblc
to his wife.
Guillemardet replied, that the commit
tee as finances had not ioft fight of these
objefts ; and Talst observed, that the great
foul of Buonaparte was above any pecuni
ary recompeafe. The order of the day, of
consequence, was adopted.
PARIS, November 24.
Gen. Boloir,. to answer to the new system
of arming an infinity of small cruisers, in
stead of squadrons which we are unable to
maintain, and to contribute to perfeling the.
object, proposes a new kind of artilltry,
more light, which shall enable corvettes of
20- to 24 guns, to defend themselves against
ships of 64 guns, which area kind of (hips
the English employ to convoy their fleets of
merchantmen. The following is what the
general fays in a letter to a journalist
Corvettes, carrying from 20 to 24 guns,
made after my invention to carry 24 pound
balls, need not fear to engage vcfle's of 64
guns, and especially vessels of 54 guns, such
as the Englilh afe as convoys for their mer
chantmen, and carry only 18 pounders on
the firlt deck. This battery is often u(elels
when engaged againft*an adversary to lee
ward.
The Reda&eur denies the report, that the
cabinet of London has sent a courier to the
executive directory. •
Council of Frde Hundred, Odt. 30.
Some citizens of the commune of Lyons
write to the council—*' The counter-revo
lutionary genius of Camille Jourdao, elca
ped from transportation, still hovers about
us. His seditious proclamation of the 25
and 26 Fru&idor, fixed up in Lyoas, has
become fur-tin; companions of Jesus a lig
nalof revolt. Recovered fr&m the terror
which the day of the ro Fru£Ut!or had cau
sed them, they meditate again new prejeifs
of carnage againll the republicans."—Sent
it the directory.
%\)t <2>ascttc»
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 11.
A Fire broke out this morning, about
11 o'clock, A. M. in a Mr. Dawfon's
White Smith's Shop, back of Fourth street, 1
near Cherry street—the (hop was burnt 1
down, but by the timely exertions of the
citizens, no other material damage ensu
ed ; altho' at one time .much was to be.ap- 1
prf-hended, as the fire took effect upon the 1
roof of the German Chnrch, which has
been lately rebuilt, after having been def
troyedby that terrible element.
A letter from a merchant in Bourdeaux to
his correfpond«nt in Boston, dated.Bth of
Nov. contains the following information:
" A letter from Gen. Pinckney, to capt. 1
Woodley, matter of a (hip belonging to
to Charleston S. C. now in this port, has ;
been received in which the general deftres to
be informed if capt. Woodley can accom
modate the three American Envoys with a
paflage to the United States by the 20 or .
25th of November."
In the Britifti house of lords. Nov. 3, a
vote of thanks to admiral lord Duncan,
vice admiral Onflow, and the fleet under
their command, pafll-d nem. eon.
In the House of Commons Mr. Dundas
moved," That an humble address be pre
sented to his Majesty that he would be gra
ciously pleased to give, direftions for a mo
nument in the cathedral of St. Paul, to thg
memory of Captain Burgef».of tht ship Ar
dent. " Ordered.
It is not unworthy of remark, that more
than one half the (hips which fonght so gal
lantly in the late adtiop with the Dutch
fleet, were concerned in the alarming mutiny
which took plaee at the Nore last fummcr.
Errata in No. IV. of Scip/o.
Second Scflion—.The fame fubjefl three
fubjeds, should read, fame three fubjefts—
6th fedtion—departure of the treaty,
Ihould read, departure from the treaty—7th
feftion—in another solemn communication.
There ends the sentence,
Tuesday last Peter Baynton, Esq. was
unanimously elefted Treafurerof this state,
at a joint meeting of both Houses of the
Legislature,
GA Z ETTE MARINE L IST.
The (hip Philadelphia, Bliss, from Bri
stol, after being four weeks on the coast and
losing an anchor and cable in the gale on
Thursday, has arrived at Reedy Illand.—
The brig Experiment, Dolby, one of the
C.Nichola fleet has also arrived at theifland.
The (hip Thomas, Holland, from hence
has arrived at Amsterdam.
The brig Ann, Blair, from hence has arri
ved at Hamburgh.
New-Tori, Jan. 10.
•'j®***'"! "ttVED DAYS.
-Wf , Ch&fCjf—-
Jnno, Blake, Hamburgh 67
Schr. New Blazing Star, Clap, Jamaica 20
Lift of American Jbips in Hamburgh, on the
4.th of Nov. 1797.—8y thefhip Juno, of
Bojlon, Thomas Blake, mafier, who Wed
tie sth.
Ship William, of Charleston,' to fail in 7
days for St. Übes.
Ship Tenneflee, of New-York, Elihu
Smith, to fail the firft wind, loaded for
Philadelphia.
Ship Nancy, of New-York, captain Rick
ttts, bound to London—captain ,sick.
Ship Commerce, of Rhode-Island, capt.
Lay>n; firft wind for* St.' Übes, in ballast.
Ship Hannah, of Boston, capt. Stutfon,
firft wind for Li ft on—loaded.
Ship Pennfylvaniai of Philadelphia, Da
vid Williamfon, firft wind for Havre de
Grace, loaded withialt.
Ship Fame of Philadelphia, Jones.
Ship Knight, ®f Charleston, lately arri
ved from the Havannah.
Ship Rajah, capt. Seaton, «f and bound
to New-York, to fail the firft wind—load
ed.
Ship Charlotte of Philadelphia, capt. Du
nenberg, fitting out.
Ship Union, of Baltimore, capt. Porter
loading for Baltimore.
Ship Anthony, Mangin, of Baltimore,
capt. Stanford, to fail in eight days, loaded
for Baltimore.
Ship Enterprize, of Providenee, R. Ill
and, and Thomas Laing, to fail firft wind,
. in ballast to the Lfle de Verds.
Ship Camilla, of New-York, eapt. Ser
vice, lately arrived from India.
Capt. Ecclefon, in a veflel belonging to
New-London, to fail in 10 days far New
' York.
Brig Two Friends, of Portsmouth N.H.
Thomas Merrit, to fail in 6 days for Nor
folk.
Brig HolbrookofNew-York,capt.M'Call
lately arrived with the loss of her malls,
bowsprit, figure head and otherwise damag
ed.
Brig Mary, of Philadelphia, Benjamin
Eail, to fail in 16 days, loaded for Phila
delphia.
Ship William on her paflage from Charles
ton, inlat. 35 N. long. 70 W.'was board
ed by a French Cutter, who robbed him of
all his papers, and were treating him with
great inhumanity ; when afqtiadron appear
ing in figkt, they returned his register only,
, and turned him adri't from the cutter in a j
! Imall boat alone ; his own ftip then at a
considerable diftanee ; the cutter made fail,
and (hortly after was out of fight; the squad
ron was French commanded by Commodore
Barney, who treated him with the grsateft
ftiendlhip, and very politely gave captain
Dockerage a certificate of the above usage
and robbery as a protection in cafe he fell
in with any of tile French cruizers who might
Idemaird those papers which were loft.
i
C O N G R £f S - S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY—JANUARY 10.
, Mr. Clopton moved that a new member
be added to the committee of enrolment, in
the place of an abf<nt member (Mr- Ed
mond) —Agreed.
Mr. D. Foster, in purfuanee of the or
der of the house of yesterday, after agreeing
to the report of the committee of claims, in
favour of John Frank, who was captured by
the Indians a few hours after he was dif
! charged from the service ofthe United States
reported a bill allowing him. the fame com
pensation, as if he had been captured whilst
he was in the service cf the Uuited States,
which was twice read and committed for to
j day. The house went into a committee on
this bill, reported it without amendment,
and ordered it to be engrossed for a third
reading to-morrow.
Mr. Mac£>n, deftrous of accommodating
gentlemen who wilhed a delay ; and in or
der to obtain greater unanimity upon it,
moved that the untinifhedbufinefs of yester
day, relative to the petitionand remonstrance
of the state of Tenrieffee, be postponed till
Friday—Agreed.
Mr. Jofiah Parker moved that the petiti
on of Job Gathkill, a soldier m the late war
presented at the lad session, be referred to
the committee of claims—Agreed.
Mr. M'Dowell gave notice that he should
jo-morrow call up for decision the refoluyon
which he laid upon the table the day before
yesterday, calling for a report of the articles
of impeachment to be exhibited against Wil
liam Bisnnt.
The fame gentleman alked and obtained
leave of absence for Mr. Lyon for. ten days.
Mn Harper said, that it wa3 found that
the provisions of the aft pasTed on the Bth
of May 1792, for regulating the process in
the courts of the Uuited States, and for pro
viding compenfati»n for the officers of the
said courts, and for jurors and witnefTes,
were inadequate, particularly a* they related
to the compensation of the jnarfhale, he
therefore moved a resolution f®r the appoint
ment of a* committee to enquire and report
by bill or otherwise, what alterations are 1
necessary in the said aft—Agreed. I
Mr. Otis moved that so much of the re- j
port of the committee of commerce and ma- j
uufaftures, made the day before yesterday,
as related to the petition of Stephen Higg
infon, be recommitted—-Agreed.
On motion of Mr. A. Foster, the report
of the fame committee on the petition of Na
thauiel Cutter, was referred to a committee
of the whole on Friday.
Mr. Wadfworth moved that the further
consideration of the report ef the committee I
of commerce and manufactures on the petiti- 1
on of John Bagley and ethers, be postpon
ed till Monday next—Agreed.
Mr. D. Foster presented the petition of
John M'Koy, a soldier in the late war,
praying for an allowance of his wages which
had been paid to a pcrfou unauchorifed to
reai-'e. iWar»i KcfcUfd tw tiic faun evw
mittcs of tlje whole to whom was referred
the petition of Samuel Abb o " and others.
Mr. Livingfton from the committee to
whom was recommitted the bill for the re
lief of refugees from Canada and Nova Sco
tia reported a ntw bill, which was twice
read and committed for Friday.
Mr. Harper from the committee of ways
and Means, made an additional report on
the fubjeft of appropriations, and proposed
a resolution to the following sffeft :
" Resolved, that there be appropriated
on account towards defraying the expense
of fini/hing the frigates United States, Con
stitution and Constellation, the futn of
dollars."
Read a second time and committed for
to-morrow.
Mr. Matthews presented a petition from
the inhabitants of Cecil county, in Mary
land, and frortl York and Laiscalter in Penn
fvlvania, praying for an extension of the
pt>ft roads tHfo' those diftrifts. Referred
to the committee already appointed on the
fubjeft of post-roads.
Mr. Harper called for the order of the
day on the bill for preforibing a mode of
taking eviden'ce in cases of contested electi
ons, and for compelling the attendance of
witnesses ; which being agreed to, the house
resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
on the fubjeft, Mr. Dent in the chair, and
after agreeing to several amendments, the
committee rose, and the house having con
curred in them, the bill was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading to-ijiorrow.
Mr. Clopton, from the committee of
enrolment, reported the bill for the relief
of North and Vefey, as duly enrolled ;
which accordingly received the signature of
the Speaker.
Mr. Dwight Fcffter moved the order of
the day on the bill from the Senate for al
lowing a compensation to the Door keeper
of the Senate and his Afiiftant during the
late session of Congress ; which being agreed
to,the house went into a committee of the
whole on the fubjeft, when an amendment
was proposed by Mr. Harper, to allow the
Sergeant at Arms of the House of Repre
feutatives, an additional compensation of
260 dollars for his two last years services,
which it was alledged, would only bring
his compensation to the fame which was al
lowed to the Doorkeeper of that house.
Some objections, however, being offered a
gainst this amendment, in order to afford
1 time for an enquiry into the faft of the dif
ference spoken of betwixt the allowances
made to the Doorkeeper, and Sergeant at
Arms, the committee rose, and had leave
to fit again.
A communication was received from the
Secretary of War, stating that the other
invalids had completed their evidence to
prove that t-hey ought to be placed on the
Pension Lift.— Referred to the committee
of claims.— Adjourned.
i
By this day's Mail.
4 J •
V 'LW.yQRK, January io. •
Opt. C!;ij>p, »ho arrived yesterday from
Jamaica, authorifcs us to fay that h? there
fawcapt. William Story, commander of the
trig Trio, belonging to this port, owned
by Messrs. Yates and Pollock, who inform
ed'him that having been attacked orr \is
voyage from New-York to Jamaica by a
French privateer of ten guns and full of
men, he had defended himfelf, and after an
aftion. of several gla/Ten, the privateer struck
her colours ; that he declined having any
thing to do with her' more, and continued
his voyage to Jamaica. The Trio was ar
med with fix 4 pounders, and manned with
15 men, Uefides four passengers.
NEW-YORK DISPENSARY.
A the Annual Eleftion for Trufteesof
the New-York Dispensary held at tjie City
Hall of this City ef New-York, on Mon
day the Bth of January, 1798, the following
persons were duly elefted Trustees for the
ensuing year, viz.—Abraham Beach, John
Broome, John Charlton, Matthew Clarkson
John Cozine, William Linn, Jacob Morton
Samuel Osgood, Edmund Prior,. MoSes
Rogers, John Rodgers, James Watson, and
John Wates.
By order of the Committee,
ANTHONY JJLEECKER, Sec.
Jun. 9.
ROBBERY !
A mod daring robbery was committed ,in
the house of Mr. John Hanna, at the 5
mile stone on the Kingfbridge road, between
10 and 11 o'clock on the evening of the
4th inft. Two men entered the huufe sud
denly, armed with swords and pistols,
threatened to blyw Mr. Hanna's brains out
in cafe he made the least noise or resistance
—then broke open and searched every
place where they supposed money could be
lodged—robbed Mr. Haona of iz guines
and 5 half joes, with silver to the amount of
fifty orfixty pounds, besides spoons and o
ther plate ; one gold ring, some liuen, with
several valuable articles of wearing apparel.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, (n. j.) Jaauary 9.
Ijift Yl'edncfday night, the ftor« of Me.Trs.
Brown and Corlies, of Bridgetown, was broke o
pen, and goods and caTh to a considerable amount
taken away ; but wc"> Vhappv in hearing that th»
goods are recovered. Yhey wire carried to an
auflionser in New-York to be difpol'ed of.'—Whe
ther the tulprit has been feeured or not we have
not heard.
On Tnarfday evening, two foot pads made an
aflault on a Mr. Brown of Bridgetown, between
Bonamtown and Ford's tavern. Mr. Brown's con
duct was meritorious : He knocked the fellow
down with a loaded whip, who had hols of his
bridle, and before the other could take any advan
tage of his fitnation, the speed of his horse extrica
ted him from such troabkfome companions.
MELANCHOLY OCCWRRKNCES.
Lad Thursday, Daniel Chaplin, a native of Con
necticut, wha has beea a schoolmaster for feme
timepaft in SulTex, was apprehended in Rah way,
on suspicion ef being concerned in the robbery of
Meflrs Browne and Coalies' Hereof Bridgetown ;
but on examination, nothing criminal appearing a
gainst him, he was difchaig*d ; and, melancholy
to relate, foaie time titer, and with deliberation,
took a razor «ut of his j «cket«"and «ut his throat
so efiFeftually, before ke cauld be retrained, that
hefoon expired. To add to the tragical tale, Mrs,
Craven, wife of Jefeph Craven, who beheld the
scene, being in a deiica'e flotation, was so over
come with the horrid fpeitacle, that it brought on
an abortion, and she eipired the next 11 ormng.—
The unh.ippy man, a few minutes before he com
muted the rash degi, wrote tilt following
'•To all that may fee this writing, I wiOi that
they would be plealed to take nctiee of it, and
communicate it at they may have opportunity I
am hcldasa perfoti of a fifpicious charaSer, andl
beg of all not to judgw any thing of ma decidedly,
without pcfitive knowledge : 1 with to depart in
peace wi'h ail mankind j whoever I have injured
I beg their forgivenefs, and iincereiy thank all wh®
have lhewn kindnef- to me, and wilh to have a
spirit of forgivenefs to alj enemies, and hope to
have fargivenefs from that "Being who alone is able
to lorgive all trrfpaffes My liic ha* been finiMil.ir j
rather imprudent than what is generally called cri
minal, though it has been fiiifnl against the pure
law of God, by oaiiflion and comraUSon—l wilh
that I could have an Opportunity to communicate
atlarge to those whom I have been acquainted
with, but all I can fay i> to wife them well, sod so
conclude, wishing virtue and peace, may attend
them and athars.
" caniel naaPLiM."
BALTIMORE, Jan. 8.
Palled through this city this morning, on
their way to Philadelphia, Towowhee, head
chief of the Wyandot nation of Indians, hii
wife, and Showherlee, a warrior, accorapa.
nied by Isaac Zane, their interpreter.
The following veiTels have arrived at and
cleared from this port, since the ill of Ja
nuary, 1757, to the id January, 1791 :
Arrived. Cleorcd.
Ship* 112 103
Brig? and Snows, 159 181
Schooners, 532 867
Sloops, 306 238
Total 1109 1389
Of the above number of arrivals, 503
were from foreign ports, and 606 coasters.
Of the clearances, 574 were for foreign
ports, and 815 coasters.
An account of Salted Provisions infpeftcd 'with
in the city of Baltimore, in the year 1797 :
Pork - - - 8738 barrels.
Beef 7906 do
Fish - . - * 21285 do
Total 37929 barrels,
CHARLESTON, Dec. 25.
Capt. M'Laughlin, from Porto Rico,
informs that the French have fabricated a
number of tale 3 of a war between th.e Uni
ted States arid Spai.i, and had en.
deatored to infttgate the governor to impri.
son the Americans in that island ; he hsd
hitherto withstood their mitigations, but
there was .no doubt of the French accoin
plilhiug their views there, in the fullett ex
tent.
The accounts of the acquital of the A
merican vessels which have been taken by the
French and carried into Porto Rico, and]of
tlfeir dcfiAing from future captures/ artfioj
tally falft i numbers are ft ill da fly cawed
ifi, acd thirteen; condemnations by vidtpf
Hughi s> arrived/ropi Ouadaloupe * f*v#
4">y» before he failed.
Pennfylvariia Population Com
pany. .
At an annual meeting of the S'!iare!;c,!J.-:i.
the following gentlemen were duly elc"3«
cd for tlie cnfci-tg year-—viz.
Prefident—J«bn Field
Managers—Theophilus Cazenove
William Crammondi
Paul Rufti
Hemy Phi.ipj
Samuel Sterctt
James Gibfon
Treasury and Sec'ry—-Solomon Marache,
~NE^THEATRE.
TO-OMRROW EVENING,
JANUARY 12,
Will be prefentes (for the firll time), aCO MIC
OPEKA,«h three a>!H, called
Abroad and *tt Home,
OR
A TOUR IN THE KING'S BENCH.
Sir Simon jflouriflu Mr - Francis—Young
Flour,(h, Mr Harwood—O'.d Telly, Mr. War
ren—YoungTefty, Mr Barnard—rCaii'.O'Neil
Mr. Hardinge—-Hafcoun, Mr.Marftlill —Snare
Mr. jT»vl >r —rxictey, Mr Bliffet—Bluff, Mr.
jtVarrell— Foil wers, MilTis Warrell,
jlin. T. arrt-fi.
Lady Flo iHfh, Mr?. Hardirige—Kitty, Mr«.
Oldmixon -fM 1$ fia'tlcy, Mrs. Warreli.
To which will be add ■d, a T arte, in two aiis
called,
THE DEAF LOVER.
gs°On Saturday, by fWlkvi 'he liagedy of
THE kEV&NQG, wtb Tw fobi* 10 ? oUl '
Bow, or, 'l'he Seryarj; u itfr Two \3aJU'''n.
Jo \Be Spti>,
Agreeably to ike ia& will »>"■ t:fiamu»tof
William Hirtnui, die -iftd, a->d pofT-f
---fion given imme lately, a va.u-Me property inAr.h
street, between Third and.Ff.nrth (Ueew, eoniift
ingof thehoufe, No. 107, wtli etc let on which
it is'erefied, aftabU, and other imfjrovemf ut»
Tkehoufe is ao feet front, and contains ten good
ap rtmenu. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
lioufe and 209 feet deep, with a welt of water and
a very capacious walled ciftera, both with pumps
in goop repair. The liable ftatids on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horfc.-. and a,car.
riage. rbi» property enjoys'the perpetual privilege
of a i6£eei court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poftelfei with reffieA to free ventila
tion. renders it well worthy tkcnttetjtioa of any
perfsn wishing to poflefs an eligibleprojiirrty in Phi«
iadelphia,
For further particular# enquire at No 88, Vino
Street—of
Robert Heysha", 1
or > Ailing Executori,
Francis Bowes Sayr*, )
January 11 f
J uji received a Frejh Supply,
Englifli Grammar,
I'he second edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different dalles of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob.
formations for aiTitting the more advanced lludjnts
to wtite with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwcmhs profcfliong in the Title. "Theappen--
dix contains some of the belt rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that We recollect to
have ften."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar 16,- on many accounts
to commendatory n<*»ice, its materials have been
carefully and judicially fete<9ed ; its arjangemeut
is diUinet and weil adeptvd to the purpose of in
ftru&ion and its expreflion is Ample, perspicuous
and accurate, &c L "
See the character at large in the Ar.ahtical
Review, July 1796
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately pubblhed by
I.indley Murray,' confining of exemplification of
the parts of fycech, inftancesof fslfaorthography,'
■violations of the rule's of fyri.ax, defects in punc
tuation, aud violations of tiie tule, refpcdlir.g
perfpkuity and accuracy, defignfd fur the benefit
of private learners, a« well as for theufe of schools.
"We h»ve been much plcafed with the petufal
of these Exercifct, Tiiey occapy wjth difiinguifh
ed excellence a moIV important place in the (ciencc
of the Engllflj language; aad as fijeh, we can
warnsly recommend tuam to the Teachers of
Schools, as well wr to all rhoCe who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs au j preciton in their native
tonjuc,'^
Monthly hek'iew, Jr>!y 1797.
The above Books.sre for sale at Jose rn & James
Crukshanks book (tore, No. 87, Market tlrecti
[ainiary it. , t a vqw.
' Prison Manufa«3;ory.
FOR SALE,
At tha Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to jody
Floorii g Brals, Sprlggs, saddle and card Tables
Oakum and chipped I.ogwood
Shocmakeis and Sadl n Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and h"acl ttoncs, hearths, chiijincy pieces,
platforms slabs, tacia, window lieais filU, < ,
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
i a moderate price.
Orders from a dKtance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho.
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December 16 ... mth6m
Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Sheweh,, Master,
From Bounteaux, and fur sale by the iubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to
' Medocwine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
j Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS
Sherry Wine in pipes and cafics
Rota do. ■ir"<b (t'N
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait,
j; Aug. 24. tUt&Stf.
i TO LET, "
I A front Parlour, suitable for
»n Office 5 a Room, furnifosAor unfurnifn»d ; and
r a iarge Ctllar, which will serve either for (lorag«
o a bottling cellar. Enquire at Ino. 14, South
; Fifth-Dreet.
Boarding and Loriieg to ke fad- Enauire as ?.
bore. ' ■ Jw6.—"ji*4 PROPOSALS
so a
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
011 the following Port Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PENNSTI. VA XIA, fjfe-
I. From Philadelphia hy Wilmington* Ncwcaf
tle, CantwelFs Puck crerk, Dover,T'red
enu, Miiford, Clough*. Tri^,
Sncivhill, Hnrntflwn »tid 'Accomic court house to
Worth-inpton court houfc three a k-
April Ito Kovember 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tucfitar, Thuif iay and Satnrd*y at 2 a M.ano
arrrive at Northamptoa cmrt house oil Thufclay,
Saturday and Monday at ?m. Returning. Leave
Northampton court hi»o/c every Friday, Monday
and Wcd'Ht 1 a m, and arrive at PhiladeU
phiaoi Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 l-t .
I' M.
Nivcnher April I. Leave Philadelphia ev- ]
cry iuef3 y, Thursday and Satnrday at 6a m,
an I arrive at Worthantpton court house on
Monday and Wednesday by 7 p*• Returning—
Leave Northampto i court hoo('c every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 t m.
VIRGINIA. j
1. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thrae time*a *v*ck.
April» to November 15. Leave Northampton
court houfw every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 2 pm, and arriveat Norfolk in 24 hours.
R ■{tyrning— Leavo N jrfolk every Wednefdiy, Fri
<uy Monday 4a m, aud urrive at Northamp
toc cou't houl'e in twenty tour htiura.
Nvj'.mh-r if to April I. Leave Northampton
court house everyTuefday. Thursday and Saturday
1 a it, and arrive at Norfolk in *4 hour*.
f»r,//j---Lcavc Norfolk every Monday, Wtdnef
day an.l Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp- ;
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA MARYLAND
•S. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
fort,Chriflhn» ,Middletown, Warwiclt andGoerge
town croftroaJstoChefterflownthreetimesa week, j
Miy Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday, Tuesday nnd Thursday by 9 p m, andar-
T.ve at Cheflertown the next days by 8f m. Re
t iming—Leave Cheflertown every Monday, Wed
nesday and Friday by 9 t> m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by 8 r m.
November I to Moj I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheflertown on Tit- fd.iy aud Saturday by 4 r 11
Ktlur.i^- *- Le*ve Cheflertown eveihr Monday acd
Friday Syß a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on
'i'uelciay and Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4 From Cheflertown by Centerville, Eaflon,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Enowhill and Prjn
tefs .Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receirethe mail at Cheflertown every Wednes
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave
r.aflon on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Snowhill
011 Fri lay by I p. m, and at Prirtcels Anil by 6 p.
m . Returning— Leave Princeft Ann on Saturday by
"to a m arrive at Eallon the next day or Monday
by 6p m Leave on Tuesday by 8a m, and
arrive at fheflertoWn fame day by 4 p m.
5. Frbm Harford by Bel-Air to the Black horse
or.ca a week.
I eave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A m, and
"arrive a' Black horse by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Bfaekhmfe 011 Wednesday by_6 a m, a»d arriveat
Harford the iioxt Tuesday by 9 a b.
PENJjJSTL VAN lA, MARYLAND and VIR
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by to Yorktown
r.i. ' lice a weik.
l eave Baltin.ore every Friday by 4'«, arrive
at Bhckborfe on Saturday by xo \ m, Mid arrive
at Yorfcnu'i: by 8 pM. Returning —Xeave York
town twery Thuffdiy by ) a m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg,
Taneytcn ar.d Frederkktown to Leefburg once a
week.
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive
a: Frederlcktown on Tu fday by 5 PM, andarrive
at Leefburg on WectSetfay by 2p m. Returning—
I.eave l.eeftiurg every Friday at noon, ana arrive
»t Yoiktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. Frotn Yorktown by - bbotltown, Gettifburg,
Fairfield, Eliiabethtown, Willian-fport, Martinf
burg,, Winchdfler, StevenfbUrg and Strafburg to
Wooilftock once a week.
I.eave Yorktown every 9utiday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
.Martinfburg on Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
cock 011 Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Wooilftock on rhurfday by 6 a u, arrive at Mar
tinTourg on Friday by JI a m, and arrive atYork
town on Sunday by II a m.
9. Pittfttirg by Cannonfburg, Washing
ton, W«ft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fishing creek once a week (contract for one year
only.)
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Sunday at 9 a m. Return-
LeaveJFilhing creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrivi at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Washington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 ,1 m, and arrive
at Wafbington by 6r m. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 am, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p iu
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bethtown, Greencaftlc and Chamberfburg to ihip
pcnfbnrg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m,arrive
at Frederisjctown on Saturday by 10 a m, atEti
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by 7r m- Returning—Leave Shippenf
btlrg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 P m, at Frcderifktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by j p».
MARYLAND.
11. From F-liaabcthtown by Hancock and Old
lown to Cumberland once a week.
l.eav«Cumbetland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elixafec'htown on Monday by 8 a u.
Referring—l.eave Eliz ibethtown every Monday by
10 a m~ and arri.'e at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 P u.
13; From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
trrive 1:' Annapolis by 5P m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
•Baltimoreby 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolu, Queen Anni,
Upper Matlborongh,Pifcitaway,Porttobacco, 1-
lensfrefb, Newport and Chiptico to Leonardtown
once a week.
I.eave Baltimore every Fridiy at 10 a m, arrive
Bt Annapolis at 3r m. Leave Annapoli. on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. & arrive at
I.eonardtown every Monday forenoon by 9 o'clock.
Returning—Leave Leonardtown e very M onday at 3
y m, arrive at Pifcataway 011 Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough ou Wednesday by
iiam, and arrive at Annapulit by 6p u. Leave
. Anitapoks on Thursday 6y 7 a m, and arriveat
Baltimorel>y3P m.
15 Front Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
lfuntitigtoii and Calvert court house to St. Leon
ards iHicc a week.
Leave Annapoli every Saturday at 9 a ju, and
arriveat St. Leonards eu Monday by 3p u- Re
turning —lxave St. I.eonards every Monday at 4
p m anil arrive at Annapolu the next Saturday by
6.A M
" lb. Ri^cJcr by Urpcr Marlborough,
11 Xpt :n.'h*m, La""' A' Acqaafco. »<.*n
ind Chirhi 1 h-tl to C<nj»ftco onccfl wew
Leave Bill-.lib :rjr v-ry irdayat 9 a m,ar
rive v. Upper MarlborTug!! bjr o#to an lat1 at Lower
Marlboriwghoii Monday by 5 * m, &at Chiptico
by 6 r *. Return —~U:aviClui>--icoevery I hut f
•Jay 11 6 a u, 2nd arrive at BuJci.fburg on Satur
day at £ A M.
17 Fiom CenrjfMewa by Montgomery court
houfc to Frcderickiown aucc 1 wee);.
Lmc Georgito vn tvety Friday try 6 a m , and
arriveat Frrderickiown by (> e«. Rtf:uraiil(;
L-i.ve F«<ericktoa'a every Hiarfd«y Ity S A «>
and utjn at Georgetown by 6 r u.
I'IRGLM-J
it. From Woodilock Iy Newmarket, Rocking*
hn> court house, St uinton, Lexington ani tint
tie to Bis; Lick onre a week.
Leave Wood!U'. 1 . •"•cry Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Staunton on Fri-iay at 1i» «. L"*« Staun
ton every Fjptojr at 1 r m, arrive a-. B'g Lick on
Sunday by IX a m. Returning—Leave Big I.ick
on Sunday by ir it, jrrltrit Staunton every rue -
day Ly Leave Stauntom try la o clock
)nooo)and arnvß at Woudttock on WednelJay Ly
J ,M * r
I 19. Fromßig I.ick by Montsronr-ry court house
and Wyche court houfc to Abingdoii once a week.
Leave Big Lick every Banday itln, arrive
at Wythe court houf; on Tuesday by 1 p m.lbbJ at
Abingdon on Wajnefday by 6r u Returning—
Leavu Abmgdon every Fhurfday by 6 a M, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 p u, and ar-
I rive at Big Lick on Sunday bv II a m.
TENNESSEE.
20* From Abingdon, Vir. by Jontibornugii
Oreenville,Moifat's ftorc andjeffctfon court house
to Knoxvilie once a week.
I.eavj Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffitts ftorc on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffataby 9 a m, an J arrive at Knoi ville on Sun
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve
ry Sunday by a P m, arrive at Moffatson Monday
by 3p m. Leavo Moflats on Monday at 4. pM,
and airivc at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA.
31, From Wir.chefler by Romney to Moorficlds
> once a week.
Leave every Thursday at 6 a M.and
arrive at Moortiekl en friday by 6P M. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
arriveat Winchester 011 Sunday by 6 I* M.
at. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdflown to Martinlburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wedncfiay at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 am.
1 Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon k arriveat Alexandria on Monday by 7 \ m .
13. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock,Urbauna and GloucelUrtourt
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburg eyery Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Sjiuwday at 1 P M, arrive
al {Tappahannock the nextjppildlay noon and arrive
at Fredericklkurg onTijJßiyby 5 PM.
24. Fro n Tappahannock by Richmond court
houfc, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court hpufs to
Lancafler court house once a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 1 1
am. Returning—Leave Lancafler court house uv
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive atTappahan
noik on Monday by 11 am.
»J. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house &Orangec. h. to Charlotttfyilleonce a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederickfburg on Taef
d.y by 6 a m.
26. From Richmond by Goochland court
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 F M,ar
ri»fe at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A M.
Leave CtuwloJtefvllle- Iw—noon—nriil—arrive at
Stauijton on Friday by 11 A M. Returning
Leave Staunton o» Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 p M, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tueiday by 9 A M.
17. Fram Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier coUrt
houleevery Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
18. From Charlattefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Amherft court house,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifonto Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p
m . and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefvillt
on Thursday by is A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock opce a week
ar if carried in ftagei as often a> they shall run.
Leave Richmond evary Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 AM. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 P M, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by j p M.
30. Frcyn Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
Loudon, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
M, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 p M.
3 1. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at I p M,
and arrive at Fincaftle on Saturday by 6 p m.
Returning—Leave Fircaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London cn Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 fr i
m. Leave Mminville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33- From Prince Edward court house bv
Chailotte court bouse to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince Ed war-'court house every Thurs
day at 6 A VI, and arrive at Halifax court house
lon Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
j ifax couithoufe onFridayby 2 P M, and ar
j live at Prince Edward court house on Satarday
! by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA andNORTH-CAROLINA.
34- From Halifax rourl-houlcliy Halifax oW town,
Careen, Martinville, Pairi-.k court-house, Upuer-Sau
j ra, Germantnwn and Bahama to Salem once in two
weeks.
leave Halifax court-houCe every other Faiday at
1, P M, and arrive at Salem the next Morulay bv 6,
P M. Reluming— Leave Salem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and ajrive at Halilaxcouit-houfe on Fii
day by 10, A M.
&i- Fiom Harru'j by Hit-Lea's ford i 0 Halifaxtwice
a week.
l eave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
5, A M. and airive at Halilax by 6, PM. Return
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sur.day by 6,
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. Mi
VIRGINIA. •
3<i. From Smithfield by Sou'.hir.ijHon ccttrt.houfe
to Hickes'i ford once a week.
Leave Hicks'n'or.i cwury F«i t*y by «♦ P vl,^
doU arrive at on Saturday by 5. V, s*l
fleiurni.ijr—l.caveSmithfie'.d every oiiier Hy
5, A M, and arrive it Hieis'i lv*rd on Monday by
P M.
37. by G-cfbrid»e, St. Tumroaav's,
Meek'eni»erg and Lu-iei»b-irg cotirt»S »use* and td
mund* ftorc to Gokifoo 1 ! >nce a *cek.
i.eave Gold Ton'* *Vedncfri»v at i^ f A M« and
return t^enext Saturday by a, P M, waiting at each
Poft-(Wke 2 houra aftrr delivery the nui .
riRGIXLA & NOHtH-CAROLIN4-
38. From Suffolk by Edeuton, Plymauth and Wa
lb»tigton to Newbern, once a week Leave Suffolk
every Mondiy at uoon, arrive at EdenMi on l'uef
day as 1, P M, p. P yuiouth, on Wcdncfdjy by 6,
AM, at Walhinfcrtun by 6, PM, and at Newisernon
Thtiirfdayby 5, P M. Returnio^ —Leave Newbem
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Waihiogtoo by
5» P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, *t Edrnton on Sunday by 9, A M, and at Suf
folk on Monday by 9. A M.
NORTH CAROLINA.
35. Fr9m Edentonby Hertford, Nixontoa, Eliza
beth city, and Jonciburg to Indiaa-towo, oucc a
week.
Edenton every VV'ednefday by t, P M, and
arrive at Indian-town on Thu«fday by 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiantown every Fuefdayby AM,
and arrive at Edenton on Wedn< fdayat 11, AM.
40. from Halifax by Northampton court-house,
Princeton, Murfreelborough, Wintou and Windsor
to Edenton, once a week*
Leave Halifax every Monday at g, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Satur ay by jl, A M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, onrea week. Leave
Halifax every Monday alia, AM, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday bv 10, A M. Returning—
Leave Piymouth op Wednesday at a, P M, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday ot 10, A M.
4 a. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Wafhingtononee a week
Leave Halifax every Monday atxo, A M, and ar
live at Washington on Wednesday by to A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at a,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M«
43. From Halifax by War»enton,Wi lliamfboroogh,
Oxford, Hillfborough, MartinvHle, Salem, Lexing
ton, SaUlbary and Statefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Mondaiy at 9; A M, arrive at
Warren'on by 7, PM, arrive at Hilllborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Salisbury on Sa urday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, A Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
©n Tuesday by 10, A M, arrive Wed
nefday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warremonon Saturday at 7> and at
Haliftx on Monday at 6, AM.
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Leafborg, Caiwell court-h«utfe and Roc
kingham court-h»ufe to Getmantown once in two
week#.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, A g,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown fvcry otiier Sunday al 6, A, M,
and aryvc at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, and Rutberfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salffti rvciy other Saturday-at a<m, and ar
rive at' Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 PM. Leave
Spartanburg every other at 7 a m, and ar
live at S»lem the next Monday at 6 p w.
46. Fiofn Louifburg by Nafti coMrt-ilfl|lfe• to
borough once a week.
Leave Taiborough every friday by 6 a m_ 9 and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6 f*m. Returning—Leave Louif
biirg every Saturday by 6 am, and arrive at Tarbo-
by 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by Smithfidd, Waynefborowjh,
and Kindlon to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern tfce next Frfday by 10 a m.
Returning— Leave Nevybern every other Friday by 2
pM, and arrive at Raleigh » Monday by 6 p m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hilt to Hillfborough,
and fsom Hillfbotough by Chapel hill and Qhatfaatji
,cpurt-houfe to Raleigh, once a wpefc. To wait two
at —— .. ■■
Leave Raleigh every Toefday by 6 a m, and ar
rtve at Hillfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
HiHfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by xo a m,
49. From Fayetteville by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Washington, Sare&o and Sampson court
house to Fayetteville, o»ce a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a. m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
coart-houfe to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-houfa, Anfon coutt-houfe and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noen and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH ef NORTH-CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancaster cdpruhoufe, Char
lotte and Lincoln!on to once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 p m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 p m, aad arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p. m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chcfter
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenlville, and
from Pickenfvflle by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-hoafe to Columbia, Once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-offtce on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a y, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville 00 Thurfdqy at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house oil Friday a.t 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 pm.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlton,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar
rive at Clurlefion on Thursday at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave Charlefion every Thursday at t p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at naon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA tf GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Ha!>
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Pcterf
burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday b'yß aw,
arrive at Peudleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p m, at Paterfburg
on Tuesday by 10 a m, and at Vyafhington by 5 p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb idge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edge
field court-house by 7 p m.
56 From Auguila by Washington, Gfecnfburg and !
Lexington to Geoigetown, ooce a week.
Leave Auguila every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tuclday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thursday by 7r m. Returning— !
Leave Georgetown every Friday it 6 a m, audanive !
at Augofta bv npon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2 p m, and arrive
a Gajaens Corner by 8 p m. Returning— Leave Gar.
detis Corner every Tnurfday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a." m..
Ntte f. The Pof Mafcr General /pay alter the time*
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of theccontractt t be previoujly flipulating an adequate com
penfxtion fir any extra expenfetbat may be uccafioned there
by.
Note a. Half an hour full be allowed Jor opening
and clc/inr tig Mail at all effingt where no particular time
it fpecifid.
Ho>c fottotry knt'i ( unj:ulial'i tcciiciiU
occfjci) iunmij Jfcr ihctimts prcfcribci i» «i «»-
the Cant niljr frail JorJcit out d.Jlar, and if thede
lay tonliipie until the d-parturt of any Jebeudmg .\Uu,
thereby the Mailt definedJ* fuck depending Mat/, bf<
a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars Jliall ft
mir,id-
A'tAe 4 Nc-wfpaptrt as rail at Let'ers are to be J *
in tbc Mails i anl if any perf on mating propfalt defuet
to carry neiufpapers other than tbofe conveyed in tht mail,
for his own tm-dtevenl, be mufl fate in bit propyls for
w r >at fumhe xvill carry it itiillt that emolument and for
ivbat Jul'i "wiib'wt that e/nolurnent.
Holes. Should any per/,," making propofub deftre an
alteration of the time! of arrival and departure above fpe
cif(J, he muff tate in bis pnftfali the MteratUas deHred,
an I tie difference they wll male in tire terms of hi, en
traS.
Note 6. Per/out making propefuh are J fired to fate
their prices in groft by the year, at)J net.by thfi mile.
Tbofe ivbo contract ivill receive their fuv quarterly, M
the month rf January, April, July ami O.lober, in
draft r on the pofi offices on the route and in lanl notes.
Note 7. The contraHi are to be in operation 0' the frH
Jay of April next, and continue for four years, until
the 3 1fl day of M.arcb indufve, in tbe year lßoi.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Port-Matter General.
General Post Office,
Philadelphia, December 18, 1797* J
tuth&«ti4thF
New-Theatre,
December n, 1797.
THE Managers particularly re que ft the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
cuftosn, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
They are a-ware that gentlemen are unconfe-ious
of any wrong done to die int.reft of the inftitu
tionby thispraikicc, from a general, though naif
taken idea that Cheeks are #ic representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will j
when in fa&, they were never intended as more
than tokens by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcertaiii with the baft trouble to the parties, tint
they themfehes have keen before in the Theatre, or
paid for their admission.
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
such a praftice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other difordcriy persona to surround the doors of
the Theatre, to the aorruption of tktir morals and
the great annoyance of the Audience.
It nas also been tfct fouTce of two evils of no in
considerable magnitude; one is, that 'fomctimes
very ir»prop«r company is by these means admit
ted ; and the,other, that owiiy to Checks passing
into dilhoneft hands, they have be n frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amount fcjr the purpofesof
Sale
ThiJ flautuent will, it isrcfpe&fully hoped, in
du«ethe Public to difcourags such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus alfifted,
easily p«ove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
Dtceplber 13 IW
Muftcal Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO TH-E lAJTtRS OF HARMONY.
harper,
INFORMS hit friends and the public, that he has
iV>w ready for sale, * few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, foncy>ahant and French harp
flop, which for feujjbility of touch, brilliancy of
tone,fimplicityand durability of cotiftruclion, the
fapefiority of Whieh,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
al .wiH convince the unprejudiced judge-—-V, they
are manufa<9ured under his immediate infpeition,
of the very beS seasoned materials, he can fell oil
reasonable terms for Casu. Instruments repaired,
tuned,&c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
navemier lg. iiwamo.
Samuel &c Miers Fiiher7
ARE NOW OrEMINC,
At their Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frefli
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
They have also for Sale,
Lisbon
Sherry and (' n P'P$ B >hhi«. and quarter cafkv
Port Wines, J
Aflorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- ajd. diwjtaw3w.
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house aOjCGO dollars,
ic cash 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & CAst 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
- 1 ditto 10,000 & caib 10,000 30,000
1 ditto 5,000 «t calh j,ooo . to,ooo
j ditto 5,000 & caib jjvoo io,oco
1 cafli prize of 10,000
9 do. s,oooeach,arej « 10,000
IO dO. 1,000 • • , IQ,OQO
10 do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. 100 • • 10,000
aoo do# 50 •' • 10,000
4©o d«. »5 - • 10,000
1,000 do. %o - aojooo
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000;
_______ *
16,739 Prize?.
33,361 Blanks.
50,000 Ticket», atEight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofsvaur thofewhs may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approvednotes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten day*> alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
et?.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ert&ed in the City ol
Walhington—Two beautiful defigr.s are already
lel«sed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawipgs it is proposed to eresl
twocentreamd foon aspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ii
the manner described in the scheme for the liotcl
Lottery. A nett dednfiion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceiTary expenses of prick
ing, &c. and the furplu« will be made a part of
the fund iatenJed for *he National Univerffty. to
be et tiled within ths city of Waihington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymont of the
Prizes, are held by the Prcfident and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more th<>n half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUBI. BLODGET.
.§. Tickets may bf had at the Bank of Colom
bia ; of James Weft & Co Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hspkiys, Richmond
*nd of TJir-hnr-T
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No, 74, South Second-J!reel,
HI AVK received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Od 27. —4W
This Day Publifticd,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second ar.d Chefnut ftrpjts,
Price 3-Bths of a Dtllar,
Obfervatiom on certain Documents
Contaiued in No. V and VI of f
4< The History of the United States for
tfye year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation agaiuft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sechetajlt of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br himself.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of thofc
pferfons who are conlideredas hostile to their difor*
gariziug schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and McflVs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and VenabJe, on the ftib
je& of the documents aforefaid,and a furies of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr; Ha
milton, proving beyond the poffibiiity of a doubt,
that the connection between him and ReynoJ4s,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his atfbciates to extort rneney.
£5" A diicount of one third from the retail price
vrill be made in favor of wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr. Younc.
ArtfruH 25.
Yellow Fever and Peitilentiaf
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o<stavo.
By William Young, Bookfcller,
No. 5 a, Second street, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Price, in bo-irdi 87 I % CmtiJ
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIE W
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eltablifhed in th# elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correft fonie important er
rors of that work, arid cases in illustration, chief
ly fele<sled from the records of their pratslict*j at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tate« & Chas. Mkcirax.
To which is fubjeined, a Treat ifc 011 th« ad ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility.
Andadifiertation on the sources of Epidemicand'
Peftilentialdifoafes; inwhichiaattemptedtoprove'
by a numerous induilion of faifls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain dates, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Mjicimn 0 f
Calcutta. '
nov - ___ Cut
FOR SALE, Br
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. s> Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ill and 1( j
proof, just landed
»jo bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old 'London particular Madeira wine In pipes &
do. market do ( qr. casts.
New England rum in heglheads
Genuine Holland Gia in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Bed Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : ««n
A few tons of Btuffia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
»(|r. ,
Long whalc-bene
No 1, a, and 3, Bofion fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hoHiwglafs ware.
November 8. diw.
This day is Publiftied,
At the office of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
( Price one dollar and a half,]
A view of thecondufl of the EXECUTIVEin tie
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Statis, conneft
td with the Million to the French Republic during
the years, 1794, 5, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenipotentiary to the laid* Republic
Illullrated by hit INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to those who bny to fell
again.
December 23, «6t.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. ?a, Second-street, corne-r of Chefaut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afiort
meut of £xglyb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges-throughout the United States.
LATELY P4J BLISHFD,
Sheridan's Diflionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 to. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
Ail forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Patteboards,
IheathiHg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wifers, and other articles, ef
the bed quality, utcd in the counting hovfe, or
public office
£*S" Catalogues of a mifcellantous collodion of
BOOKS, with tke price of eacfe affixed, to be had
bv inquiring as above. 0(4. 24. — 3aw6w
"* LAW BOOKS, "
Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals ftorn
London and Dublin, theii spring importa
tion, confiftingof a variety of the lauft and most
approved Law Books, whicV,added tothofe alrea*
dy on hand, forms the moftcxtenfive coiicdionev»
er offered for sale in this oountry. They theiefore
leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connedicnain Dublin, they are enabled to lelllriih
editions (as they have hitherto don?) at the vt-ry
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vcfcy, juw'rs Reports in Chancery, a
Peaiu's Cases ?.t Nili Prius ; Hcforts
in the time of Lord Har.dwjcks ; Hoyer's Prefers
FracSice in the F-cefeftafticai Courts ; Barton*®
T«rcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of Kirk's Bcmh in Pcrfonal Actions, %
parts complete ; VVnrd's Law .of Nations; Cruise
on Ufc*; modern Reports, 12 vols. London edi
tioh.
H. and P. Rice expeil to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Eaft\s Reports, the id part ps Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
r/w publications.
June -76.
Wanted, to Hire,
\ and convenient HOUSU, in or near
IX tiieientreof the city—for which a generous
rent wiil hegivsnpto be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of ths Piintrr.
Oft. J7, euti