of tfje and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
Nomb£S 1709.J
SALT.
3500 to 4000 bulhels of large
grained SALT,
Fr.m St. Martin's on beard the (hip Spy, at the
Still Heufc wharf—far file by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street.
SAID SHI?
fail in a few days
For Savannah in Georgia For freight
or paflagc apply at above, or to the
Captain oti board.
February >7 *eod3t
For Hamburgh,
TH B SHIP
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dbhart, Master,
'■"''Havinggreat part of her cargo en- ]
fagad.—For freight apply to
Jejfe is" Robert Wain. 1
F.hnsary 16 > $
Nicklin fc? Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATI FOR SALS)
; 8 hhdi. of Jamaica Rum
f.Jsdeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
OM Port do. in hh"1».
Imperial Te» in quarters and eighths ef chefls
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, aad Muftinets, in packa
ges suitable for tho Welt-India market
Nails afforied
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in caflcs j
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expelled round
as Toon as the tuivigatloa is epes,
"Tiae Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spinifh Brown "j
Venetian Red
Purple Brown f PA INT 6
Patent White f
White Lead
Ued Lead J
vitriol
160 bandies Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
Skip Diana,
Far Sale or Charter.
ALIO,
Brij Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN 8? GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
for Savannah,
Thefajl failing Ship
SWIF r PACKET,
(* regular trader)
Patrick Gai bben, master,
WILL ftil on the 10th inft.
(ice permitting) has handsome accommodations
for passengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the master on borrd, at Bicklay's wharf, above
Markst-fireet, or
N. a* J. Frazier,
No. 9J, South Front-street.
February 1. i
For Amiterdarh,
«—*. The Ship
FARMER,
ffggifijMV John M'Collom, Master ;
my WILL fail in a ft-w days, the
L'-Tg"?greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffer, or
paflage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
out-Jlreet Wnarf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i» landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bouriic-aux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cafcs
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontinia.c, >
Santerne, > Wines in cafe*
Lunille, .1
Prunes in bones
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE
' Will carry about 1100 barrels, and
iaroadv to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to %
Pragers & Co.
No. is j, S#uth Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Liflton,«nd Teneriffe win®.
November y. dtf
At a Meeting of the Prefident
and Managers of the DttAWAtiaad Schuylkill
Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
Ittfj.tr4, That ten dollarson each (hare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give pnblic notice thereof agreeable
91 law.
£*trad fr*m lie Minntll.
GVORGK WORT ALL, SureUry.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of iho PreCdsnt
nod Managers of the ZW«Tiwr« and SetuyUitt Canal
CiMfary, the Stockholders ari her.by required to
make a payment of ten dollrrs oa each of their
refpe&ivc lhares on or before the ift of > pril next,
1 WM. COVBTT, Trtaftrtr.
February aB. _ aawt A
AND SPtEDILY WILL BI PUBLISHED,
(frit» 15 Cmtl)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
of r*s conduct or ran tzicrrtrt.
As published in the
CA2.ETTt of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatuio of
SCIPIO,
Jn which thei oramr-cial warfare of France is
uaceJ the French taflion ir. this country
its lource, anil the motives of tie opposition
to the meiiuiet of th« United Stilts we expofr J.
Feb. *•
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 2, 1798.
To be fold at Vendue,
At the Coffee House, at 7 o'clock in the eveaing,
on the of larch next,
f—The Hull of the
AS she lies, and three Anchors
lying under the bow, cut away *£•
ter file bilged. Stranded at he mouth of Cohan
ft c creek. She was built iu Newburypor: about
five years ago, was coppered U£t summer in Ham
burg, and mca'ur's about 500 tons.
LSO AT Till SAME TIME,
Apart of the Cargo whish isnot yet got out her, fay,
19 tons of Iron
4 boxes o fhcet Copper
70 boxes of window and hollow Glifs
All for the ben fit of the concerned.
JOHN CONNELLY U Co. AuS'rs.
February »8 dt3M
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At Chefnut-ftreet Wharf,
On Monday, the sth March next, at 11 o'clock,
The following Articles, saved from the wreck
of the ship John, znd fold for the benefit of
the concerned :
Ii Bolis of Canvass I Main Top Sail
I Fore Sail i.Main Top Gal. Sail
i Fore Top Sail i large new Cable
1 Jib j bb!s. of Pork
244 Sheets of Copper Half a bbl. Btef
1 Ship Bell A few bbls. Flour, Peas
ai.d Bread
A quantity of Chain Bolts, Rings, and sun
dry Iron, with a large aflortment of all kinds of
Rigging, Blocks, Hooks and Eyes and Thim
bles, &c.
2 small Copper Boilers 3c Water Calks
4 Compares 7 Glass Windows
2 Lamhorri* I Towline
11 Spars I Hawser
1 Iron Caniboufe A quantity old Junk
x bbl. Tar I large Wheel
I bbl. Copper Nails I small Anchor
jt boxes Window Glass 3 old Cables
41 draws of Tumblers 1 chell with Medic.
1 brsfs Stove » bbls. Pork
t Tables 3 Chairs
Andfundrv other articles.
JOHN CONNELLY Gf Co. MB'r*.
Feb. t8 dtsm
Public Sale of Real Ellates.
On THURSDAY Everting, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coflfee-houfe in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two (lory brick House, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a lot 20 feet front and
ioc feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet iquare,
with the privilege ef aD alley to go thereto. This
intered has lately been let for too dollars per an
num, and is fitua'ted in Chri.lian-ftreet, between
Front and Second llreats, the fecoad house from
Mr. Caleb Afli's.
No 2. A three story brick House, fi.tuate at
the north raft corner of Chefnut fireets, being 14
fe«t on Second-street, and to ftet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
s)fearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the belt Hands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finilhed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40 This oufe is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflern
of rain v »"r in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer t let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Pljimb street, between Second and Third ftrret,
being 20 feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No 5. A thr. c story brick House, on the bank
Cde of Front-street, No. 171 North, goiag thro'
to Water street, where it is five story. It is 20
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and i» rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions ol Sale are, one quarter calh,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan 12,171/8. 3aw
£3" On account of the present bad weather, the
above falei> poltponed »ntil Thurtday evening, the
firft day of March, at 6 o,clock Feb. 16.
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cl ells of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine streets. Dsc 26—eotf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOli SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
Central John Gadwalader, situate on SalTafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow hou r es, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfeer'a houfet, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houles, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Btlate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires hut 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herringfi(h iy. It is
conveniently fit jaced for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable rivtr butaihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the ptentiles; also, a variety of vxcellrnt fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
; The whole will b« f Id together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &e. will also be disposed of.——For further
| particulars apply to George Hastings, on the
premiies, or to the fubferiber. in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, juh.
February 24. 2aw6w
Surreyor General's Office,
December 2, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres,Cß perches
of land, fnuate in lower Smithfield townlkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant »f id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hat>h made the following note, viz,
Tbisland claimed by heirs Lewis Oordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daaiel Broadhead, F.ty. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hall, .Secretary
of the Land Offcce.
N. Lufborough.
By John Fenno, N O,
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Siiil-
IT, of Oxted Cottage, in the Counry of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, SpiniUr, or her afiign.,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred llock of
the United Sti'.es, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, hound from Philadelphia to London
is the year 1796. The fuhfcril-.er, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 23. iaw6w.
' P'HE term of Co-partnership between the sub-
L fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mut al
consent w>l4 not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnership,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February tq stf
FOR SALE, »Y
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chrfiut street,
A quantity BENG AL GOODS,
AMONGST WHIOS A*l
Gurrahs ' M. meodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas I'anda Coflaes
Guzzies 1 Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palamcoors Rotnall Handkerchiefs
Anvmgft them ar« a great proportion of the ma
nufaftures of Patni.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February T9
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfbip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Ess Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
th' 7 have opened a Wholefile Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India y German, Ir'jb, French and Bri
tifb MannfaAures for sale, on advantageous terme
for cafli or a (hort credit.
February 19 §tf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the {hip India's last carg6 from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2w
PRINT.
rHE Print, representing General Washing
ton and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready tor delivery by the asth of
March next.
An unfinifhed impreflion is to be seen at Mr. M'El
wees's looking-glass (tor# No. 70 South Fourth Street.
The fubfeription will close on the 10th of March
next. Sub r oiberg may depend on having the b«ft
Prints at one guinea and an half. To non-fubferibers,
the price will be two guineas.
February 19.
~FOR SALE,
A quantity of CALF SKiNS, in the rough,
and feme horse leather. Apply to
ROHERT SMITH £5" Co.
N». 58, South Front ftre:t.
Feb. rftw
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common foal of
the County of Capt May in the Hate of Ne v*
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, prawng that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gamft his liberation, pursuant to an ail of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a<3 for
th relief of insolvent debtors," pafltfd th; 26th
day of Ja uary 1798 —And the the fa d court
did appoint Monday
next for the purpose aforefaid j to meet at the
Court Hoi\fe in the Middle Precinfl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, »f which
his creditors are requeltod to take notice.
CHARLtS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, J798-
Feh. 14 —nwcw
Prison Manufactory.
» FOR SALF.,
At the Prison cvf the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all Czes, from 3<ly to aody
Flooring Brads. Spriggi, fiddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chip] led Logwod
Shoemakers an-I:5aJ!-rs Thread
Also—Sawed Mairblo, suitable for currier's tablss,
tomb and hea Itoncs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms flabt.tada, window Iteai■■ fills, c .
All which may he had on reafonablr terms.
Shoes mide and Weaving done at said f'rifon at
a moderate price.
Orders from a d t lance, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent far the ,»ufon, will be attended to.
Decem .er i 6 nathfim
For. sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A value lie Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on t he north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fr nting the State-
H ufefquare Tliis lot is fi'ty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one b'juJred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
; present two small t wo (lory brick houfci, and a
number of small tt-nena.-nu thereon.
jii so. for Sa 'e,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient wharf, *c. fiiuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an-1 Saflafras
Street", containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five tec t, then widening to the
Tooth thirteen feet lix inches. These houses
have the convenience of t pubi c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefu
uation for ji a merch.tnt, flour faiflor, or others
who may Vmve occaf. »n for storage of goods.
This propet ty will lie fo'd on very reasonable
terms for ralh. For furth* information apply
to the printer.
July ji. m&wtf
119 Chefnut Street.
To Let, .
garden, stables, &c.about 4 M miles from town.
Immediate possession may be had.
PETER BLIGHT.
February 27 §iot
For Sale,
The Indenture of a healthy, jlrong, and attivi
NEGRO GIRL,
Who has nearly fourteen y«ars to serve.—En
quire at N*. 118,'' Market Street.
February 27 So'
' JUSTARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, JoTeph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort*
ed to suit Welt India market
1 40 hoglheads Whiring
1500 buftiels g House C»als
ALSO JU&T UNDiD,
4ro barrels prime Beef, Boston and New-York
50 barrels Pork
I <0 hhds. Hava>.na Molaflet
Woolen Cloths
Blaukete > ifToricd in packages
Hard Ware j
Ravens Dutk
Window Glass in boxes, Bririfh, of various size*
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I groceeaeh
A general affortmeut of Qiyetfti' Ware, in crates
Fowling Piece*ai d Fiftols, in cases *
Balket fine Salt, in hogflicadt
FOR SALE BY
Tbos. ciT John Ketland.
February I j
Notice.
£5" The ship Star from London will commence
difc'iarging to-morrow mwTning at Walnut flroet
wharf, where coufignees »re reijueft-d to fend the«r
permits immediately.
February 26
' -
Landing this day,
From on boacd the fchqoner Two Friend-s, Dan
tel Crawley, Master,
80 M,d,. and/Jamaica RUM,
ra pipes ) J 7
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
nrvemher Q. $
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Goflas, an>d
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAg., in hags and boxet
Jamaica, )
St. Vincent?, ? RUM.
and Bengal J
300 talks RICE, rnd
A p.,reel of ship building RED CEDrVR.
oa. ij. $
Thit Day it Published>
By John Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia,
A PLAN FOR the CONDUCT OF
FEMALE EDUCATION,
In Boarding Schools, Private Families, and Public
Seminaries.
B7ERASMUS DARWIN, M.u.f.n.s.
Autbtr of Zoenomia, and of the Botanic Garden,
To which arc adde 1,
RUDIMENTS OF, TASTE,
IN A SKRtES OF LETTRRS.
From a MOTHER to her DAUGHTERS.
Hmbelliftied with an elegant Frontispiece.
(Price, neatly hound, gilt and lettered, one duilar.J
CONTENTS.
The Female Chara&er, Music and Dancing Read
ing, Writing. G ammar, Larguages, l'hyfiog
nomy, Arithmetic Geography, Hi story, fJj u !
ral History, Rudiments 01 Taste. Beauty, Grace, |
Drawi- g and Fml>r®i try Perfoe&ive H arhen
Mythology, Polite Literature, Novels, Art- and 4
Sciences, Morals, Compaifio i Veracity, Pra- I
dence, Jullice, Chaflity, Fortitude,
Temperance, Religion, Addrefi, Conversation.
Exereife, Dumb Bells, Air, Bed-rooms Firs
grates, Care of the Shape, Cold Bath, Diefc,
Ear rings, f owder, Chefs, Pu
i)ilhn,*nts, Rewards, Motives, Lilp ng, Stam
meri'g, Squinting, Involuntary Motiors Swel
led Fingers, and Kibed Heels, Beds, Rheuma
tism, Dicr, New Milk, Economy, School-eJu
cation, uses of, Catalogue of suitable Bo.»ks.
ALSO JUST PUB I.fS (! ED,
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collei!lion of interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy eftedls of youthful in
nocence and filial affViiion—ln prose and ver e.
Dcfigncd to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration. Embellished with an elegant Frotif
piece and seventy-three Cuts. Price 75 cents.
Feb. 16 .It
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of MeiTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Phi'sdelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauies and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
'To which is annexed',
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pravSicc of
rent authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrcPing fa&s and refle&ions relative to
the Synochus Itleroidtt, or Yellow Fever, which
ha< occasioned so much diftref. and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fe«pOrt
towns of the T'nited Spates of America.
by WILLIAM QURRIE,
Fclow of the Philadelphia College of hyfeians,
and Member of the American Philoioph'Cctl So
c:»»y. Feb. 1—
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL comnence dravying Monday, the loth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollar*, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Oifice, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the CJty o' Washing
ton, No ll.and PatUrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moft'oftJie Lotte
rics authorised by law in any of the i-tatcs of the
Union.
N. B. The bvfinefsef a Buorfk, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcornttng Bill? and Notes of Hand, iale of
Lands, House*, ste. See. will be duly attended .to,
by W\i. BLACK BURN.
November 15- $
Landing
From on hoard the Snow Maria, from Copm
hagen,
A few Tons Rufiia Clean Hemp
3<>o pieces Ravens Duck
150 pieces Russia Sheeting
200 bolts Russia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
for Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY V CV
Wl'j hasten Hand,
ift and :d pruuf Boucde*ax Uracdy
4tti procf Spaniih ditto
New-England Rum
London Particular £ MaJeirl wine in Pipe.
London Market ) Md * UMter C '**
Old Claret in Cases
24 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Beit Helton Beef in brrrell
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Sainton in do.
A fraall invo ce of Ktiede-lfiand Che»fe
S. ermaciti Oil
Tanacrt ditto
No. i, 1, j, Boflon Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass Ware.
March J. diw
1 he rs
FOR carrying into th* y
Article of the Treaty of Iriendfhip, Limits,and
Navigation, :> tvve n is Catholic Majesty and the
United States of Am.rica, henbv give i"u>rsnat ion
to all Pt-rfons therein concerned— ! hat in yrder
to terminate all difference?, on account of rhe'olT
e* !, y the c *r2 r.r of the United States, in
conlequuicr of fheir VclTe's nd Canjoc having
been t iktnhy the Su 1 jeil- of Hi* Caho ic Majes
ty, durirg the late war between Spain *.nd Fraucj,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and ont o*clo. kda ly) all
complaints and appication9 authori2< ti fy he fairj
Article, during eight een months, from tie day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons a* e*mc before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching; the com laint* in
question, and also to receive in evidence /all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in fach manner at
they (hall think proper to require or admit.
JBy Order of the Commi/jio' ers,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
CommiJJioncrs Office, No. 109, Mulberry-
Jlrect, M#y lpb 9 1797.
Feb. 28, *98 — 'im
%* Tbofe Printers in the fever al States nlo publifo*
ed the above advertisement las Spring, are requeued
rc-publijb it one month, andJend their accounts to P, L,
A Gardener wanted,
TO move to the Diftridl of Columbia, one who
understands his btifinefs well, to whom generous
encouragement will be given. Application nud
be made immediately, at No. 5, South Fourth
ftreet, to GEORGE WALKER.
Feb. *3t
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
Or. reasonable terms, by applying at No. 31,
North-street, between Fifth and Sinth-flrects.
February 13. eodjt
" ' FOR SALE, *
by the subscriblrs, No. 21, Pcnn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Con fifing of
Baftas, of. various qualities and prices,
Coflae* l J Miijiim Cloths
Sanalu Guzzey do.
Humhums Chnrcouaa Dorca
Blue CI. th Tar.jibs x
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamoodyj Checks
Maharagonges Patnajfkfs.
(iinjrh«nis M#lmu do.
Guzzenas BanJannoes
Gmiahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcees p Choppa Uomals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of variom col.
Meek Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
9®, 000 lb PEPPER.
Willings ly Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commod ous ftcre the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alft^ —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patten s and belt colours,
February 8. dtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No \ii 5 South Front Streefe
A quantity of Tanner*! Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
ift and ad proof Brandy, J drawbaok.
t Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &G.
FeH. 9. eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
a 6 hogtheadi bert ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
For sale by
JCHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a<Hive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
ad do the bufincfi of the kftchcn. Such a one
' ill he allowed good wages, and no Other necdap-
w y.—Enquire of the Printer*
February 7 §
SALES BY AUCTION.
Staled Sales
For DRY GOODS,
r Pcrenoon —Edward Fox, No. j6,
jtr j ) fnuth Front-street, .
m Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 65
South Front street.
£ r'orernti ji—John Connelly, Old City
_ r , \ Auction, No' 73 south l-'ront-ftreet.
'* Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
183 High street.
,ir j «..{ Aiternoon— Peter oetifon, No. 74
IVeJjHfi*, I south Third . flrcet . 74
( Forenoon—Ectward Fox.
Tburfdaj | Afternoon—jnhn Cont»elly.
r J forenoon Shanuoo.
r > *y . Afternoon—John Conu«lly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter BtnCuu.
[Volume XIII.€ je oascttc.
PHILADELPHIA*
FRIDAY EVENING, March 2.
For the Gazette of the United Sta/et.
HI. FCNNO, A
The is a copy of * letter I received
fruri a genrlcman in Connecticut, with hit ile
fire to >2rt it published in y»ur paper—l perfeive
the diiti it ounterto the general correal of your
paper, ai.d it, that operates a> a realon that you
will not five it a place, I will tend 10 morrow
ibi 1 lie copy. X 2.
Decus has made some animadverfleos on the
fracas between Cnl. Lyon and Mr. Grifwold,
which calls forth the Centiments of the people
of Connecticut ; and we folieit you to insert the
following I 1 inures. In the firlt place, wc ob
serve that Grifwold isepithited with Mr. while
col. Lyon is totally diveiltd of title. This dil
ceveis to us the partiality which printers, edit
oii-or.-fcribblers have no right to. Col Lyon
has his couifuiffliun as commandant as a regi
ment, aud with propriety ought to be ftiled
colonel. 'l'htn you proceed to fay, " that an
unman«yrH rufllan has offered Mr. G.' an inl'ult
never to be endured," and has puritanically bur
thened the house ef representatives of the Unit
ed States %ith the affront, and thereby expe&ed
to rcl'cue Mr. Grifwold from ■ jult punifbment
for his utgentlcmanly and insolent behaviour so
c'' Lyon, hy repeating his wooden sword insult.
Had col. Lyon ever been dwelled of his rank in
the army ;nd ' een caQTtered,for cowardice con
leqjently intitlidtoiheenglilh dubbof aknight er
rand, and thence haveattached to him the idea of
wearing a w®o«len sword j if a state in the U
rion had heen pleafrH by thtir fuffragesto have
honored him witk a feat in the legifljture, it
was ill besoming an individual to have branded
the whole (late with a stigma—but as that is Wy
no means *» appendage of his tbarafier, it was
cruel in Mr. G. to fay it, and childilh in him to
repeat it. The only apology which Mr. G. ean
viler is, that ke has been bred and educated in a
puritanic (late, where <words de not authorise
b/ons, and where the legislature have proteiSed
thtmfelves from injury by enalting severe laws
a ainlt dueling, the particular hijlory of which
Buy come up in future. But the legislature of
Connecticut did notexpe<sl by their ai\
duelling, to extend it to congref3, or beyond the
limits of the state ; to befure, while within the
limits and boundaries of the state, tbry have
powerfully defended tliemfelves agaialt any at
tacks in which their indiscretion or wintonnefs
may involve them.bnttheyhadno ideas of extend
ing it further than thetr puritanic borders. It
would amuse the ftatespehaps, to give them an
history of the eaufe of the law ; but as it would
drive us too far from our purpose, we (hall on
ly observe thar it might be numbered with the
blue laws. Grifwold, thns educated, might
plead privilege, md fuppofc himfelf authorised
to fav rt/ytthinp, and be by law prote<sted from
affjuit or injury. Col. Lyoti knowing the puri
tanilm of the state, iniglit wave the firft apgref
fmw, but ci U ii not the fecund, without impli
cating himfelf in the reality of' Grifwold's fup
pofttirn, and 1 hereby rendered biml'elf worthy
a wooden sword. But hwwever the matter
may turn in congress, whether col. Lyon be ex
pelled from the house for (pitting in Mr. Gril"
w<.ld's faee or not, we beg leave to affare Mr.
G. that we did not fend him 10 congress to abase
or icfitlt the members, and we molt heartily re
pent ourchcire of a man, who had folittl? know
ledge of the world,as toaffrontamember of that
honourable House, by an alTe tion, a question or
insinuation so dire>3ly injurious to his feelings.
Wc have no idea of running down atay charac
ter — vVe expeft that reaftn, argument and laws
wi'.l liipcrcede all other ccnfiderationa. We
had no idea of lending you, Mi. G as a cham
pion -ef Connecticut; we deleft the condudl
which you have been guilty of, we pity your
putrility and want if urbanity, and will reform
ourchaiie.
The true charafler of large bodies will never
be known from individual! who compose them ;
much less thai of Rates, from the individual
who represent them. Were w« iw characterize
them from th.-fe circumllances years ago,
we fliould haveluppofed Georgia to have been
xhade up of cowards and desperadoes ; the Ca
rolinas of duellifta an.t pafade gentry ; Virgi
nia of Cincinnati juntoifts and demotrats ; Penn
sylvania of Pennies and broad brims ; New-
York of gallants and bubbles; Connecticut of
drifts and athei'ls ; Bolton of courtiers and
giniblets , while Vermont alone retained the
iru* Amtrican charafter of plain, honest, fenli
ble men. So also were we to judge ef Con
gress by th ir ails, we might fuppefe our finan
ees eftablilhed, our revenues infinite, oar politi
cal situation a source of envy to Europe, and of
/importance to the world.
Do we wi!h to derive a true knowledge of
fads, we fly to newspapers. But alas, they are
contradictory and salacious—One fays our na
tion is resectable and refpeCled abroad, while
another details the injuries and insults we daily
fufler from foreigners. So aad reflux
iog are ail things, that a Date sf reft and certi
tude is not tha lot of any of the works of God.
As the heavenly bodies arc afluming diurna'ly
and periodically the:r oppolite extremes, so alio
as it were from humble imitation, do all men
an!#iags vibrate from one, extreme to the o
ther as if impatient i f reft or liability, much leli
of permanency and duration. As in the natu
ral so inthr moral world, doc all nature rulhfroifi
one toils nppofite extreme; and itfeemsasthough
il *as the ltudy of the rational world to accele
rate the movements ofthefe vibrations, and hur- 1
ry to " their vast cxiremes." Nature seems bu
sy in effeAing those extreme*, for quickelt
growths most quickly decay. The most beauti- '
tul flowers wither the quickelt ; the Hat- 1
licft oaks the hcavieft fails, the most deli- 1
cioui and excellent carcases the mill oflTerilive
fmtlls ; and isit not caufc of grief anddifagreea
ble reflections, that ma>i, the noblest work of
God, (hould be subjeCted to the truth of (hefe
observations I Is it because Adages pronounce
thtt " reformed rakes make the belt husbands,"
that gallantry hasfo many advocates ! Is it ne- I
ceflary that impiety (bonld he a prelude to de
votion, and honesty to the making a fortune by
swindling to' the diftionor of human nature? -
Namberlsls examples juftifv the generality, if
not the universality of the obfervarion I'hat
misers (hould beget fptndthrifts, and vice versa,
ia not strange—the reafens are obvious ; and
that external integrity (hould be made a John
<le Baptist ; the foujeft knaveries grow out of
the grneral jargon : for who that has read the
great volumes of nature's productions, but will
fubferibe to these truths ! I lessee, when we fee a
large eflate amrffed by the penury and the inde
fatigable in uftry of one, frequently lavilh*
ed by another generation. When I fee a large
edifice I pity its tenants, or a small '-ottage I en
vy i's inhabitant*; when I travel in a rich
kingdom, I fee miserable cit gena, but in a new j
world, happy pea/ants ; if I fojourii to <he In
dies, famous for their riches, I observe 9 e>o t
Oaves to «w iadepeadant freen.an ; if 1 read the
* riiingt of pah i«u, I look farv\ art] to their ej
ipi"n, I exptCl to (ice in oid age a devotee ;
. I>her, 1 expect a rude retirement ; it obfequ
ous abroad, a doireflic tyrant ; if fond of de,
■ <n>Siip, ft,Te impoltu'e, if Censuring the via
of so- iery, 1 will guard my p»rfe ; if a devott
and itligiout, I expeO to hear that some hone
. ellatcs have been ruined by them, that they ti
peCt to fettle some large cftate, to get in.o son
great employment, makeibme bargain, orfotr
capital overreachings ; if ; I hear a pried decn
ing the richct ef th s world, 1 conclude I
I wants to buy a farm cheap ; if decrying th
things r f lifj, it j 3 with a view of er.jo;-in
: them himftlf; if I hear a traveller fpeak.lll
■ highly of foot walking, I remove my horses t
1 another (table and lock them up, lelt he (houl
• indulge a varkty at my expence ; if a youn
man fueak. lightly «f the fair sex, the nex
neu.l hear he is married ; if a man be prove:
bully poor, he is soon mounted in his coach, an
[ if immensely rich, I look ferhis name 011 th
l:(t of bankruptcies. So general are the vibrj
tions, that we almeft that one extrem
growi out of the other. An oppreflive goverr
mem by a revolution begets a free one. and th
free government pants for an energetic one—l
this flux of sentiment, as of tidea, the fentinnr
tal world has its periodical revolutions, aimoi
as periodically fixed thofe of nature. Wjji
this exordium, which 1 will meet the aflent 0
every critical observer, may we accoun: for th
fracas thai happened in the reptefentatives
chamber ddring this felEon, between col. Lv
on and Mr. Grifwold. Grifwold, habituatei
to the ebbing and flowing of lemiment, wilhe
to accelerate their movements, while col Lvoii
regarding the constitution as an eligiblejian
dari of rights, privileges and benefits, withe
above all things, to fee no innovation upon thi
principles of dtmocracy which brought it in:<
being—he being born under the government o
Britain, and educated in the full belief of thi
extension of the prerogatives of the crown, i
ardently desirous to check every movemen
which in iCTue (hall alter tho tone of the respeCt
ive branches, as permanated by our ble.Ted con
Oitution T and that he (hould feel with mori
weight the dangers of oppreffiun, is rational
when wc consider his native country, and theii
wretched and unalterable fittiation ; and thai
his whole foul (hould be engaged to suppress anv
and every thing which in Hie vibrations of go
vernment, tend to impair the liberty of thepeo
pie. Ar.dmaywe not rationally infer, that il
he has not the abilities ef the meltable orator
to produce his sentiments and give the air of rcf
peitability, in a well connected chain ofreafon
ing in a set fpeeth in the house, that his mental
powers will he ever awake to acconaplilh the ob
ject of his million by means within his reach ?
No one who is acquainted with col. Lyon, but
allows him poflell'ed of (trong mental abilities ;
and on the footing of accomplilhments, let us
a moment cor.traft the combatants. Mr. G.
brought up at the foot of Gamaliel, and having
received a polite educj, : -in, was one of those cha
racters from whom ■ ought to cxpeCt polijhecl
manners, while col. Lyon tifpiresio 110 greater
elevation than that of a plain honcft man. Un
der these itnpreflions, where di cs tile rudeness
or manr.ei's commencemelt afluredly from
Mr. G's ungenteel interposition. 1t would have
been eIU-eaned rude in Mr. G- to have interrupt
ed the <!ol. in his observations—but horridly
rude and barbarous to insult him and rep ated
ly, with a stigma which was fabricated at the feat
of government. The world- expeCt more from
a pi.lite gentleman than from a ruflic farmer—
the insult by Mr. G. was therefore doubly for
cible, and yet Mr. Grifwold's Decus ftilei col.
Lyon ' in urimannerd ruffian, "as unrefpeCta
ble,"di(hosorahle and tilelefs—Af Mr. G was
the reverse, it was too poir.Ledly partial to gain
any credit. " Sunk in the fltb of arty" Mr.
Decus, do you endeavour by fucb language, to
animate the house to revenue as a. body ? So
diring an outrage aa that committed by your
lelfor your friend, where did the party com
mence ? We fay under combination of govern
ment, under the banners of which Mr. G. has
ingloriouflv enlisted ; and because col Lyon did
not wish to facrifice the republicanTfm of the
state he had the honor to represent, by gtafping
after and [laytaiitry of Eaftcrn courts,
Mi". G/volunteers to dubb with cowardice a
military character, and has his reward.
SIC TRANSIT.
Connecticut, Feb. 8.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THUESBAY—-MAICH
The Speaker laid before the house a report from
the secretary of ftste, relative to the execution of
the adl for the relief and prote&ion of Americ n
feamcn, which was refcrreed to the cotunaittee of
commerce and manufa&ures.
Mr. LivingOon reported a bill to continue in
I force, for a limited time, an declaring the as
sent of congref* to an a& of Maryland, ior the
appointment of a health-officer, which was com
mitted for to-morrow.
Mr Bayard reported a hill supplementary to the
idl lor eftsbliihing the judicial cottrts of the Unit
ed States, which was committed for Monday.
Mr. D Foftcr reported a bill limiting the time
within which claims for credits on the books of
the treasury may be prefwued for allowanee,
which was committed for to-morrow.
Mr. Nicholas informed the h use that his col
league, Mr. Brent, was too much indisposed to
atttend to the hufinefs of the committee to whom
vas referred the memorial cf the commiflJoners
of the city of Waftington, an>« wished another
member to be appointed in his Head,
Mr. Sprigg was accordingly named^
The house xhen again resolved itfeU into a com
mittee of the whole, on the bill providing the
means of iutercourle with foreign nations; when,
after some obiervaHon? m Mr. W. Claiberne,
in favor of Mr. Nicholas's amendment, Mr Gal
latin occipied the remainder of che flttin b , which
did net rife till four o'clock. * Adj.
TO LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent fland for
bnfiaefs. Apply to
Thomas Is 1 JoJhua Filler,
march t. $ No j, Dock-ltreet.
James C. £ff Samuel W. Filher,
AT THEIR STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and v c ront (treet.
RAVK 10*. SALE,
. Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunks,aflored -
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Hufficat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and MadraCt ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taff; tics
4000 pkces Nankeens, and
Few chefls bed Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes fceft London Window Claft,
from Shy 6, to 19 by 14 —and tj hhds. Olafs
Ware aflortud, which they willdifpofc of cheaper
than; any in the cit>.
IJov : 8 3tar.-t/
u umwwjwiwuu—u
j- .'ON TIHU ATION OF
Latest Foreign News,
- By the bri~ Mary , ctptain Haklf, from Dover. ; '
s, - ■
® j PARIS, December 14.
The three Comrtiiffioners fern bythe Con.
e gress of the Onited States are here, with
e out having advanced one step in their miffi- 1
- or. They are the vidtims of the just indig.
e nation with which theconduft of the present '
t rulers of their country has inspired our gor- '
' ernmeiit. It looks as if all communication '
would be interrupted betvreefl the two coun- 1
j ; tries. They have not had a place among '
, the members of the Diplomatic Body at the
i | fete of the loth of this month ; not even |
- I the Consul General of the United States, '
' , Mr. Skipwith, was iuvited to it, although 1
: j that honour ha* bqen hitherto paid him on x
. j all such occasions. It has been remarked, c
that M Signeul, the Conful-Gennal of 2
Sweden, has been also forgotten. ®
1 I ' J
PRUSSIA and FRANCE. v
i•■ ' J
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY. «
Frederick William the Third, by the f
1 Grace of God, King of Prussia, margrave ''
ofßrandeßburgh,anti-chamberlain, Sc prince u
eleftor of the holy Roman empire, See. to
the French republic, and in her name to P
the citizens who compose the Executive Di- e
reftory. w
Great and Dear Friends, n
Providence having disposed of the days
of the king, my father, who departed this 1
life the 16th of this month, and having cal- n
led me to the throne of my ancestors, I has-
ten to announce to you this double event ;
per&iadcd that you will take part in the loss
I have sustained, and that you will inttrell
yourselves in my advancement to the rule
over the Pcuffian dates. I (hall take the
greatest care to cultivate and cement the
harmony which I fied so happily eftabliftied
between the two nations j and upon this I l '
pray God to keep you, great and dear ®
friends in his holv care. d
Your good friend,
FREDERICK WILLIAM. b .
Berlin, 17th November, 1797. 11
ti
LONDON, January 4. 111
Three per cent consols, 49 1-12, opening. P'
We this morning received the Paris jour- '
nalsup to the 31ft ult. inclu- ; , " B
live. We have made such extrafts from C 1
them as our room and our time would per
mit ; and by tliefe extradts our readers will
observe that strenuous preparations are ma
king for the invasion of England, for the .. 1 '"
accomflli(hment of which the Secretaries at
and Clerks in the public offices have, among
many others, come forward with patriutic 01
donations. 4 1 * i P (
PARIS, (11 Nivofe) Dec. 31.' * : te
The Dcy of Tunis has liberated without
ransom, eighteen Frenchmen, in return fpr ec '
an aft of kindness on the part of Gen. Bu-
oriaparte, vvho (bme time ago liberated and
sent to Tunis eight Turks (hipwrecked'on *® l
the coast of Leghorn. On this
Buonapartt has addressed a letter to the Di
redtory, by whopj the letter written on this ne
occasion by the Dey of Tunis has been also 156I 56
publilhed. '■ ■ j it!
The blacksmiths employed in the naval
arsenals have just given a new proof of their
attachment to republican institutions, and'
have at the fame time /hewn how anxious
they are to contribute towards the speedy ,
execution of the descent on England, by ar
declaring that, they will allow themselves no V
repefe on the Decadis.
The clerks employed under the. Minister
of Jufticehave addressed a letter to {he Di-' ul
redtory, accompanied by a civic colleftion, ; Pi
to go towards the expence of the delcent j tb
on England, and a tender of their services pc
to march against England. fei
The Directory h<ff published an arret to
the followihg effedt, in consequence of a bt
representation made by the inhabitants of tb
the Pays de Vaud : " The minister of the to
French republic residing at the Helvetic th
cantons, (hall declare to the Governments tir
of Berne and Fribourg, that the members tr<
of those governments (hall answer personally go
for the fafety of the persons and properties mi
of the inhabitants of tl<> Pays de Vaud, T<
whp have addressed themselves, and may >!
(till address themselves to the French Re
public, to claim, in execution of ancient
treaties, its mediation, and to be either pa
maintained in or restored to tlfei'r rights. on
The persons employed in tlie internal ad- ho
mimftation of the Direftoria'l Palace, have ca
addrefed a letter to the Directory, in which pa
after pouring forth many in vediives against tw
the Englilh government, th £y state as sol wl
lows: " The Secretary, Clt-rks, and others ufl
employed in the general Seer etary(hip'(.frfrf
tarial) of the Executive Diredtory, the w<
perfons*e mployed in the internal adminiftra- foi
tion of the Diredtorial Palace, detained at Se
their posts, regret that the;y cannot scare in an
the labours of their brave brethren in arms; th
but wishing to concur, at lead, io tile
means calculated to ensure their success and tic
the triumph of the Republic, they have just Pr
closed the fubfeription thty opened on the fui
firft of this month (December 20) which to
has produced the sum of 2,500 livres. They ne
place in your hands citizen t directors this pa
triotic offering, to be employed in the pre- ral
parations making for the punishment of the Br
tyrants of the seas." sol
A letter from BruflVls contains the sol- dit
lowing statement: " In cinifequcnce of the de
movements which have recently taken place, en|
both amoßg the Austrian troops, who have ga
fuccelCvtly evacuated t.heir politions and no
retreated towards Bohemia and Austria, and
the Republican troops, the two mod for- th<
midable bulwarks of the: Germanic Empire is I
arc now in the hinßs of the French," it <
M. Oche, Envoy fi.-om the Canton of nti
Bade, has keen prefentedi to the Directory, & Hi
was present at the public entertainments re- are
cently given by the conflituted authorities wit
on occasion of the peace with Germany, for
* The report of a dispute between France and
the above Canton is therefore erroneous.
The directory has received fatisfa&ory
r advices relative to the present situation of
St. Domingo, extraordinary efforts were
to be made when the accounts came away
, tb expel the British troops. Tranquility
had been restored in the southern part of
j. the island.
A meflage from the executive diieftoiy
t to the councils (which we (hall give in full
when we can spare more roorii) states, that
n " the cabinet of St. James has determined
. to withdraw, from the 10th, of January,
r the usual fuljijlence from 22,000 Freneh re
e publicans confined in England, who are,
n contrary to the rights of nations, detained
in dungeons." It proposes taraife a con
1, tn'outfon for their support ; the amount of
, which is stated at one million a month. It
concludes in the following manner ; Citi
f zen representatives, every t'lafs of society,
evitry citizen anticipates the plan, which
you have in view, to fettle the national loan,
which is to assist the conquerors of Arcole
Neuwied Khel, Fleurus and Lody, to
carry back into the walls of St. James all
. the evils, with which the Bvitilh cabinet
. has desolated the world. The eagerness
. with which the mode of the loan is univer
, fa'ly expetSed; and even anticipated, by
, previous fubfeription, is for tke directory a
. certain pledge of the zeal and pundtuality
with which the contribution for the priso
ners will be paid. The government of
; Great Britain lately imagined that public
spirit was annihilated in Fra*ce ; they were
mistaken. The national spirit only (lum
bered ; when it awakes, it must be terri
ble to the tyrants of the seas.
1 (Signed) _ " Barras, President. I
" La Garde, Sec'ry.
LONDON, December 21.
Last night we received the Paris journals
to the 18th inft. they are chiefly filled with
the fetes and rejoicings complimentary to
Buonaparte on his arrival in Paris. The
dinners and balls given by the direitory, the
ministers, the members of the legislative
body, See. ate very numerous ; and the sen
timents exprefied at thein are full of exul
tation in the victories gained over the ene
mies of the republic, in the eontinental
peace, and of vengeance against the Eng
lish government. Preparations for attack
j ing this country continue to be made with
Cl,er gy> and every opportunity is seized by
the dire&ory ro inflame the • resentment of
Fritnce.
An unfounded report has been circulated
in Paris of an attempt to poison Buonaparte
and some of'the members of the direftory. "
Mentz iVto be surrendered to the French
on the 31ft mft. and the emperor is to take
pofleflion of Venice the fame day.
j But the most important article is the let
ter from the new king of Prussia to the
French republic. In this letter, is contain
ed "sentiments of peace and amity towards
France. His majesty (hews himfelf a wife
king: He is not to be seduced from bis
duty t<s his fubje£t» by the delusive promi
fesof an English minister, nor the tempting
offers of Englilh gold. The whole conti-1
nent of Europe is now at peace, and we
believe it out of M r - Pitt's power to dilurb
I its repose. England alone ha 3to dread
the ravages of war.
They write from Vienna, of the 30th_of
November, that the emperor was indisposed,
for some days, with a violent cold, which
has brought on a fever. Hopes, however,
are entertained that his health will be (hort
: 'y re-eftablifbtd'.
December 22.
A ktter from Peterffiurgh of the 25th
| ult. acquaints us with the arrival of the
j Prince of Conde in that city ; and states !
| that the duke de Broglio, who has been ap
, pointed field marshal general in the Ruffian ]
service, is likewise shortly expe&ed there.
We learn by a private letter from Ham
burgh, of the 12th inft. " that M. Scultz,
the Prussian minister, has officially notified 1
to the Senate that city, in the name of 1
the new king, that his majesty would con- 1
tinue effectually to protest the line of neti- <
trality, and would moreover employ his 1
good offices at Raftadt, to effect whatever
might tend to the advantage of the Hanfe
Towns.
_ I
PARIS, Decembers. «
Buonaparte continues to receive the de
putations (fom the different military corps t
on the constituted authorities at Paris. At t
home he is surrounded with several aids-du- 1
camp—Whenever he goes out he is accom- t
panied by a general officer, a Pole, between t
twenty-fix and twenty-seven years of age, 1
who was the partieular intimate of Kofci- s
ufko. 1
The firft of this month three emigrants
were (hot at Toulon, and on the second, c
four women were condemned to banishment. I
Seven inhabitants of Sobers, taken with
arms in their hands, have been sent before
the council of war fitting at Marseilles.
It is said, that to the different propofi- , f
tions that have been made to the king of c
Prussia by our government, of his ! r
surrendering the principality of Neufchatel, t
to be united to the Pays de Vaud to form a 1
new republic. o
The directory have named the vice admin
ral Lac/offe, -commander of a division in c
Brest Roads. He is said to be as brave a t
soldier as he is a good sailor. In the expe- e
dition to Ireland, he commanded, les droits h
del'homme. On his jeturn he sustained an
engagement of mare than twelve hours a- a
gainit fir Edward Pellew and c»pt. Rey- n
nolcls, k
Letters from Amsterdam mention, that ti
the commerce of that city and of Holland
is so confined, that the little that remains of a
it will be carried 011 through the medium of
neutral states, and chiefly in Dani(h and r<
Hamburgh vessels. Coffee, sugar, and tea ti
are both scarce and dear. As to fplees, is
with which the magazines of Amsterdam C
formerly furnilhed all Europe, scarcely a
id fuflicient quantity is imported :'oi the use of
the Batavian republic.
jf Letth' of Citizen Thomas Mlir It lie Exe
re cutivc DireSory.
y Paris, sth Dec. 6th year ef
y the French Republic.
)f Citizenj DireSors,
Two days have elapsed' since I arrived at
y Paris,very weak and *ery indifpoftd. p« r .
11 mit me to pour out all the dutiful and grate
it ful effutions of my heart. To you I owe
d my liberty, to you I also owe my life; but
r, there are confederations of infinitely superior
importance, which must strike my mind with
an irrefiftable impulse. Your energcticcon
d dust has preserved liberty net only in France
i- but in my country, an 3in all the nations of -
if the world who now groan beneath oppreffi
t on. It is urineceffary for me to make any
i- protestations of my love for the republic.—
Until my last fijjVi, I shall remain faithful to
h my adopted country. I (hall reckon citi
1, sens direftors, the day when I (hall have
e the honor of being admitted into your pre
-0 fence, the bappieft of my life ; and if I have
[1 parted through dangers and misfortunes,that
t moment will efface their remembrance, and
s prove a rich eompenfation.
' THOMAS MUIR.
f They write from Liftjos, that from the
a extraordinarycolleflion ofPortuguefe troops
f which has taken place in that capital, it-is
" supposed that these preparations are intend
s ed to support the fnmmons which is to be
: made by the court of Lisbon to the Englilh
: admiral to leave the port and evacuate the.
- forts after the ratification ot-the treaty ess
■ peace with France. The court reficWs at
Qusliui; two great councils will be held
there after the arrival of a courier coining
• from Paris.
In the fitting of the gth of this month, a
melTage frem the Directory informed the
> council of Fire Hundred, that they had rc
-1 ceived the ratification of the treaty 6f peace
' conaluded with the Emperor.
• The minister, Buonaparte, has received
orders from the Direftory to demand from
■ government the liberty of the patriots im
prisoned since the 2nd ef Augult The
• Holy Father after some resistance has con
• fented.
L On the 13th mft. a ball was given by the
Directory, to the ministers of the interior ;
it was very brilliant, and prolonged until fix
in the morning. Several minilters danced at
it, among others the minister of war, and
the minister of police. Buonaparte appear
ed there about a quarter of an hour with the
members of the Directory. The day fol
lowing the Ottoman ambassador gave ano
ther ball.
They have conftrudted, in the ports of
Bologne, Calais, Dunkirk, and Oftend,
gun-boats of a new invention, of which plans
have been sent to the builders by the minis
ter of marine. These boats will carry piec
es of 36 pounds.
Letters from the Hague state, that an ex
traordinary movement agdinft the govern- *
merit is apprehended in Holland, the forces,
of which is placed in Amsterdam. They;
even go so far as to mention the names of the"
chiefs.
Camille Jourdan,fays a letter from Neuf-..
chatel, of the 26th of November, was arrett
ed some time ago, in that city, under a feign. '
ed name. Betides the declaration of this
ex-deputy, there has appeared p piece of
considerable extent, upon the events of the
18th Frudlidor ; its title 13 "an appeal to
the French nation." Lemefer, another de
puty condemned to transportation is thu au
thor.
The archduke Charles is to be married to '
a princess of the house of Saxony.
The late king of Pruffia'a mistress is
threatened with .the fame fate as Jane Short.
Already has file bceti arretted, and a great
part of her property seized.
CADIZ, Nov. 18. •
The gun-boats of Algeziras attacked a
fleet of two merchantmen from Lisbon, un
dcr convoy of two frigates, on their way to
Gibraltar. A transport, the Prince Willi
am, and the Tartar, from London, Kave
fallen iuto our hands.
BERLIN, Nov. 2t.
His majesty, our Hew sovereign, has bs
ftowed the order of-the Black Eagle on
counts Bruhl and BackhofF.
His majesty attends topublic bufinefswith
the greatest afliduity. He as yet resides in .
the palace which belongs to him as
hereditary prince, and wears the uniform of
the prince of Prussia. He has entered on
the adminiftratiori of the affairs of govern
ment with all that noble simplicity, firmnefs
and exemplary virtue, whi* distinguished
him when hereditary prince.
It is expe£ted that general Bifchoffswer
d«m will retire, and reside upon his estate,
but relative to this nothing official is known'.
MILAN, Nov. 7.
The arrival of general Buonaparte, the
of the republic, was celebrated here
■ on the 3d by a general illumination and great
I rejoicings. The members of out" Directory
the foreign mim'fters, Scc r waited on him,
The next day he reviewed the different corpa
of troops in the Field of Federation, and
notified to them hi 3 appointment to the
command of the army of England, telling
them at the fame time, that they must not
expe£t to lay dovn-lheir arms till they had
humbled that kingdom.
The army is now in motion ; five division*
are destined for the army oif England. The
napes of these divifians are not exactly
known; but.the report of the day mentions
those of \lafTena, joubert, Bernadotte,Vic
tor, and ferune. The diviliou of Brune is
certainly to be oa*
Buonaparte has now divided the Cisalpine
republic into so departments ; our legisla
tive body will con'iltof 240 members ; that
is, the council of Elders, of 80 ; the great
Council of 160.
Our republic, like th? -Bat&v'an, is tqkeep is,coo French troops in ifg pay, at!
which general If irdla, a Corfican, wiR have
the command.
What was called a cor.ditutional circle
wai like wife edablifhrd here, which had a
hove 500 members. Buonaparte has, how
ever, forbidden this club to meet, as it might
he dangerous afca time when our condituti
on i» not fully organized.
Our Directory, which has the appoint
ment of Bishoprics in the Cisalpine republic
has ordered that the bishops (hall for the fu
ture, lay as.de such titles and forms of ex
pression as are contrary to the republican
fydem. They are, for indaace, no longer
* > dyle themselves bishops by the grace of
God, and the authority of the holy apolto
lie See. On the contrary, they are, like
♦ther magistrates, to ofe the stile of Citizens
and Republicans.
RASTADT, December 7.
The following is the Note, presented by
count Lchrbach, to the deputies of the em
pire, refpefting the evacuation ef Mcntz,
&c. by the imperial trsops
" C'sunt Cobenzel, miniiler plrnipotentia
»y of his imperial royal majedy, for the
exchange of the ratification of the treaty of
peace, has informed the undcrfigned Aultriau
miuifter plenipotentiary at the Con'grefs,
that the definitive treaty of peace, conclu
ded on the 17th Oftober this year, at C in
po Formio, between his imperial majedy
as king of Hungary and Bohemia, and the
French republic, obliges his majedy to with
draw histtoops from the theatre of war iu
„ to "his hereditary dominions ; and th'itthe
time draws nigh, when this measure is to be
carried effeft. His imperial royal majedy
has, however, in order to perform his duty
as co-estate of the empire, reserved to him
felf the right of leaving his contingent of
troops in the field, if circumdances should
require it, until the peace between the holy
Roman empire and the French republic (hall
likewise been concluded.
" The undcrfigned, on Iraving the honour
©f communicating this to the illustrious
deputies of the empire, hopes that they will
relV convinced, that, as on the one fide this
meafnre_tend« to fatisfy the earned wist of
several.dates of the empire, that his maje
sty's troops might be withdrawn, in order
to alleviate the burthen of the war, his em
perial majedy, tho' disabled from employing
any longer his whole force in defence of
theempirc(as he has done these fix ytars
with matchless perfrverance and exertion)
yet firmly continue V 1 fulfil the obligations
incumbent on him as co-edate of the empire,
with refpeft to his contingent, provided al
ways the privileges of his house remain un
impaired.
(Signed) " Count Lehrbach."
December 11.
This evening the- deputation of the em
pire held an extraordinary fitting. It is sup
posed to have been oecafioned by the sudden
evacuation as Mentzby the Audrians.
Yederday arrived here count Goertz, the
PrufGan plenipotentiary. Citizen Rozen
fticl, the French secretary [general, is like
wise arrived from Elbingen.
Edafcttes have been sent to the Diet of
Ratifbon wjith representations relative to the
retreat of the .Audrians, and the present
fituafion of Mentz, where the French have
broken though the line of demarkation a
greed on with the Audrians.
Yederday the French mini fieri gave in
their full powers to count Metternich
It isjfaid, his Prussian majetty will aft as
mediator betwten the German Empire and
France. /
MENTZ, Dec. 15.
The city is now (hut in by the French
quite to the outworks; the passage, hdwe
ter, is open. Tht Audrian magazine will
be fold.
MANHEIM, Dec. 15.
The French are now in full motion in
our neighbourhood, on the ether fide of the
Rhine to take pofleffion of the places thera. (
On the lith, lome of them advanced to (
Mundenheim, but retired again. On the 12th
some French troops came to Oggerfheim. f
On the 13th, they took pofTefiion of the ci- :
ty of Worms, and 011 the fame day entered
Frankenthal.
On the gth, the whole Audrian army in
Suabia broke up, and began its march to >•
approach the Audrian dates in Bavaria. As t
•h.'s army takes with it all its baggage, ar- f
tillery, and ammunition, the Audrian gen- •
erals have required the Circle of Suabia to t
lnrnifh 25,900 draught horses.
LONDON. j
COURT OF KING'S BENCH. a
December 16. lc
COLLET V. MARRIOTT. J'
This was an action to recover from the f
Defendant the amount of a policy of irifu- Ir
ranee on the (hip Argonaut, driven on shore P
.and wrecked in Simmon's-bay, at the Capr ®'
•of Good Hope, the 2d of Oftober lad.
The plaiatifPs cafe was opened to the jury c '
(which was special) in a very elaborate and w
.able manner ; but its merits will be bed ex-
plained by the deposition of the principal t- f ll
vidence. 11
Lord Keith deposed, that he was com
mander in chief of the naval force at ihe
Capcof Good Hope, on the 2d Augud
lad, at which time the (hip Argonaut,under tc
the command of the plaintiff, arrived in the
bay, for the pnrpoft, as he underdood, of .
getting water and provisions. Hearing that 1
an American veflel had before landed some j
men who behaved in a disorderly manner ; vl
and being in hourly apprehensions of attack
from the enemy, he thought it advifeable, "
tor his majedy's fervicj, to lay an embargo ®
on all the (hips in the bay, aroongd which
the vessel commanded by the plaintiff, was w
of course included. On examination of the ill
lhip, aud its papers, flrong fufpfcions arefc, of
■corroborated by the circumdance of the vef-' at
itl having icveral paffsngerson br.ard, and co
particularly a Frenchman, of which tke w.
jC] csptain could g've no other account than
»e 1 that he was an emigrant bound for the Mau
ritius. All danger being removed, on the
If 19th of September the embargo was lak.a
a- off, but the plaintiff's (hip was detained as
' ■ an '/licit trader, hit papers and his other de-
It derations dating that 114 intended to trade
i- to Madrafs. The pi aiutiff made a proted
as being an American, and several retnon
t- (trances, but without effect, as his lordship
ic was not then apprised of the ratification of
1- the new treaty between this country and A
c- merica ; and knowing that it was-his duty
n "tij. detain it tinder the navigation and several
r other prior aft 3. Capt. Collet never com
if plained to him of the want of any
>• or dotes, or he would have ordered him to
e be supplied, and his lordship frequently of
is fered him to take the charge, and be ref
ponlible for the fecuritv of the vessel, if the
captain rifigned the command. This the
latter declined complying with, and the
y mailer attendant (as is usual, in all 'he ports
'• Europe, Asia and America) was dire£t
:, ed to take measures for its security. The
(hip was accordingly removed to a part of
1- Simmon's Bay, which, in his lordship's o
c pinion, was a place of the greated fafety.
it When the vessel was detained as an illicit
u trader, his lordship direfted the supreme
3, of Judicature to inllitute an enquiry
.- into all the circumflancee, which the witness
1- means to transmit to the admiralty in vindi
y cation of his own conduct,
e The examination of capt. Collet by the
1- court of Judicature at the Cape of Good
1- Hope was then read, in which he dated that
e he was born in the Isle of Man, but had re
e sided and was for thirteen years an inhabit
y a»t of America. That he was entruded
y with the ship and cargo in quedion, fitted
- out by himfelf and Mr. Butler at Philadel
if phia, to trade to some ports of Europe and
d the Ead-Indies. That he arrived at the
y port of Loudon, and waited there till the
II conclusion of the treaty with America, which
allowed the vessels of the latter date to trade
r to the Ea!l-Indies, pioyided the vessels only
• dealt upon their original cargoes. He made
1 his policy of insurance accordingly, and
s failed to Bourdeaux, to Leghorn, to Madei
f ra, and to the Cape of Good Hope, where
his veflel was detained and destroyed.
r Evidence was brought to shew that the
- Argonaut was taken pofTefiion of by a mid
l (hipman and fix others, who took it from
f its moorings, and in that operation had cha
s fed its caljle; and that it was driven on fiiore
) and dedroyed on the 2d of O&ober.
s The captain of the Ruby said, that he
» had sent some men on board the Argonaut,
- wha removed it to a fafer anchorage than
- where it was before; and that he had un
derdood it was dedroyed on the 2d of Octo
ber.
Mr. Law irr behalf of the defendant, de
. chned any argument upon the condrudion
. ef the American treaty, or the quedion ar
, iling from what was called in law the " re
draint of Princes." The quedion for the
. Jury to consider was, whether those who
, for good reasons took pofTefiion of the Ar
. gonaut, had any intered in deffroying it?
Or whether it was not more likely to pro
r ceed from plaintiff himfelf, accused of being
. in an illicit trade, and againd whom pro
. ceedings were at that time going on, the
. event of which was likely to be the confif
cation of his vessel and his cargo.
Mr. Erfkine, for the plaintiff, cantcnded
, that from the evidence, the loss of the Ar
gonant was owing to those who deprived
, the Captain of his command, and conse
quently the defendant was liable, as the pol
icy insured againd the redraint of Princes,
as well as the dangers of the seas. He
highly applauded the conduit of his noble
filend .Lord Keith, whose meritorious serv
ices wonld f-ver be remembered by his coun
try. His high fenie of honour would set
h m above all suspicion, or otheiVife, in
his Situation of Advocate, he had a right to
demand their hesitation on the tedimony of
a witness who might be ultimately called up
on to make good these damages. The de
cifionof this quedion wns of the very high
e(l impori»nce, as or. it might depend the
continuance of peace and amity with the
Americans. He was not much in the ha
bit of applauding the present Minider; but
U j ice obliged him te approve those enlar
ged and extended views, by which, in the
American treaty, he counterafted thenar
row policy of the house in Leadenhsli dreet.
I he minider was and ought to-be aware,
that the opulence of England did not arise
from the poverty of its neigbours; and that
in proportion as improvements in arts, com
merce and manufactures were made in fvery
quarter of the world, in the fame propotion
would be the advantages derived to Great-
Britain. It wasno doubt upon this consider
ation that the r ith article of the treaty al
lowed the Americans to trade to India, fub
je£l to his reftridtion, contained in the 13th
article. The treaty allowed them to trade !
in all and in any of the ports of Indodan, j
provided they confined themselves to their i 1
original cargo,Jand did not carry on a coast- j
ing trade. It was not proved againd his 1
client that the commerce he was engaged in 1
was illicit. A party of men from the Ru- 1
by had taken the command of the vessel, ; I
had altered its anchorage, and changed j'i
its cable. The loss was clearly by res-! ]
l yi' nt Princes, and therefore the plain- { 1
tiff was entitled to their verdict. j <
LordKenyon faid,thatgreat deference was <
to be paid to the opinion of Lord Keith, <
to whom he paid many compliments. That 1
illudriout nobleman was placed in a fitua- 1
tion of extreme importance and difficulty, c
It was necessary foi him to use the utmod 1
vigilance and caution, and the more he f
hazarded in such cjrcumdances, the gredter f
was his merit in the difcljarge of his duty, c
But though the evidence that the plaintiff' 1
deprived of the command of his ship was I t
without any proof of his being engaged in 1
illicit trrffic. The construction of the aft 1
of Parliament was a fubjtft which he (hould 1
at present abdain from difcufilng ;*but there c
could be no doubt the l-.fs of the vessel c
was owing to the reftniint bf Princes. ]
1 The verdiift of the Jury ti»at tlielofs
- of the (hip was owing to the reftrair.t of
e Princes, which would enable the plaintiff
1 to recover the amount* of his .policy; but
s the quedion W3S referred whether he traded
- in such a manner as was confident with the
; fair condrufiion of the articles of the late
I treaty between Great-Britain and America?
mm im » i n»a
f oasette,
? PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, March 2
1 TRANSLATION.
MR. FEN NO, .
You will pleafrt to mention in your next
5 Gazette, that I have neither delivered, nor
c Lave I authority to deliver a certificate
e of the defcriptioo alluded to in the letter
• ptibli/hed in your pap». r of yesterday,
dated at the City of St. Domingo, the
= 12th January, 1798 —of which you may
f convince yourfelf. by reading the Decree
- of the Dtie&ory of the 2d March, 1797,
■ (O. S.)as welfas the 25th and 27th articles
t of the Treaty of the 4th February, 1778,
- a!fa the form of the role d'equipage annex
[ ed to said treaty, ratified in Cougrefs the 6th
s May in the fame year, in ihe terms follow
- ing—&e.
" And whereas the said treaties have been
= maturely considered and unanimeujly ratified
1 and confirmed by Congress ; in which said
1 Treaty of Amity and Commerce are the
- Articles, 25 and 27 with the form of the
passport (role d'equipage) Now therefore,
1 to the end that the said treaty may be well
i and faithfully performed and kept on the
" part and behalf of these United States ;
- -ers, and other officers and Teamen belonging
to any vefTels of war of the United States.
1 And all others the fubjefts of the United
; States do govern themfclves dri&ly in all
r things according to the above recited Ar
ticles.
1 L<* Consul General
De la Republique Francaife.
: LETOMBE.
Mareh 1, 1798.
MR. FENNO,
1 I have seen in the Aurora dated 27th
• February, a datement of the difcufiion
: which took place in the senate of the Uni
ted States, relative to the appointment of a
' supervisor of the revenue for the diftri£t of
, New-Hampfnire, which is far from corredt.
■That part of it which relates to me I de
■ clare to be falfe. Neither the sentiments
nor the expreflions therein attributed to me
fell from me in the coiirfe of the discussion
above mentioned.
I am fir, your rcry humble servant,
JAMES LOYD.
March 1, '9B.
*»* Those printers who may infer t in their
Gpzfttcs the article to -which the glove alludes,
are rrquefled to publish thu also.
Mr. BACHE.
Sir,
The certificate refpedh'ng the unanimity
of the committee felefted to try the late con
teded eledUon,conne<3ed with the paragraph
quoted in Mr. Fenno's paper of yederday,
from your paper of the 22* d of February,
places the clerk of that committee in a fin
gubr function: For, if it befuppofed that
110 other person than the clerk was privy to
the debates on t ) le f evcra i points in quedion,
before the committee, and this so far as I
know is the faft, it seems to follow that in
formation from the clerk is " the bejl autho
rity," if not the »nlj authority on which that
paragraph could have been founded. I claim :
110 right to demand of-you on -what authori
tyyou published the paragraph; but you
will perceive that the situation in which those !
publications place me gives a fair claim to a ;
direst declaralion by you, that the para- '
j graph is, or is not founded on information
derived from me, directly orindireftly, from
myfelf or through another. It is with the
committee, not with me, to divulge their
proceedings or sentiments; and, as the cafe
requires me to be explicit, I aver, that ho
circumflance whatever, relative to the opini
ons of all or any members of that commit
tee has transpired through me; nor have I
ever converted withany perfon,evenmy molt
confidential friend on tl\e futjjft.
T. MATLACK,
Clerk of the Commi/tei.
March 2ncl, 1798.
From the Delaware and Eaflern-Shure Ad
vertiser.
Messrs. Adams,
As I am not one of *hofe who are per
fuadtd that every well wiiher and apologid
for French politics, is, of coiirfe, an ene
my to the intereds of America, I wish,
through your nfeful paper, to fugged a few |
1 coqfidcrations that may induce such citizens
; to review their sentiments upon this fubjedt, .
! an d enable them to determine whether their '
opinions be the result of prejudice or of ra
tional convidlon. lam willing tomake con-
allowances for the effeft which
fplend;d Ticleries, and high protedations of
philanthropy, are calculated to produce up
on the human mirid. The fir ft throws a veil
over the mod brutal enormities, and the se
cond are but too fuccefsful in imposing up- £
on hearts conscious of. the lave of liberty ""
and of mankind. But, when fa*ts are dai
ly occurring, by which alone the finctrity
of protedations, and the advantages of sue
ccfs can be ascertained, does not common
sense fugged, and candour require, that we
fhotild look at thefe.fa<3s, examine their ten
dency, and calculate their consequences? E
We now mufl fee, if we will open our eyes,
that nothing short of universal empire, or
universal prepondcrancy in thecivilized world ®
is likely to fatisfy the ambition of France. I
Hrt - plan* arc avowed, her vad projects of
dominion arcporppoufly displayed in the face • S
of the universe, and the lofty dreams of j f,
Louis XIV. (he is determined to realize on o
2 | botli "ides the Atlantic. Let th; partisans
f los this nation Tefieil whether it be tli -V
[f ( wish to be swallowed upinthe mighty whir!
t | pool. Whether they wish to fee Aifticrica,
J | the peaceful feat of feeurity and liberty,
e j the- gentle narfe'of human hap.pinefs, the
e afylam of the wretched, the parent of equal
J lav.-s, the pattern of political integrity and
, wisdom, the birch place of our anchors, and
the inheritance of our posterity brought un
. der the controul of a domineering power,
r ' pillaged like Holland, devaluated like Ger
-1 many, convulsed like Genrta, destroyed like
I Venice, and bartered away to some foreign
i despot? What American, who dtfervte the
. name, can view these horrors with indiffer
ence? But when these enormities are brought
home to ourselves by wanton and barbarous
t depredations on our unoffending ni«r»:hants,
r when our vefftls failing even under the fanc
. tiwn of a treaty are plundered by orders of
r this haughty government, our seamen con
demned to undergo the mod painful and hu
, miliating punishments while peacefully prose
, cuting their lawful business; with what in
e donation should every bosom glow, thu: has
been ever warmed by the fire of patriotism ?
s How any citiieu of America can feel with
calmness, much more apologize for such in
' fults, is to me a mystery that no analyfisof
human nature can unravel. If the friends
of- France, who are among us, be really
convinced, that her Power is irrefiltable. and
j that all the nations of the earth mult fall
■ prodrate before her, then indeed may they
1 argue confidently •' that the sooner we join
. in her triumph, tfie better we shall rare;
, " better to join with the Plunderers than
"to risque our all by refinance: How
I " have those States been treated, which
, " piefumed to oppose this mighty people
" raised up by Ptovidence to reform the
_ " world." Language like this, is daily
r among us, and men of virtue, sense and re
' ligion, forgetful of the and de-
I gradation of their own country, wish te for
| gettthe present enormities of another, in the
_ visionary hope of its becoming at a future
day the deliverer and iHdru&or of mankind:
How far France may become a scourge in
the hand of heaven to punish the wicked
ness of men, belongs not to short-sighted
mortals to determine. Like Attila, who
fliled hirnfelf the Scourge of Gad and his
desolating Hunns, (he has indeed executed
j mod awful vengeance upon herfelf and
! neighbours. Perhaps America may likewise
be doomed to groan under her plagues.
( But that this nation should be a chosen in
p drument in the hands of Providence to en
creafe the stock of human happiness and
knowledge, is a supposition not bottomed
} upon any probable foundation. Light in
s deed may fonoet.imes rife out of darkness, or
| der from confufion. But what political or
religious improvements can be expe&ed from
a nation, which for the lad ten years has
been rioting in blood and rapine at home,
carying confufion and anarchy among its
. neighbours; which has set at nought the
facied obligations of solemn treaties, torn
up the very foundations of Chridianity, and
discarded the belief of God and his Provi
dence. ■ Let the friends of this people in A
merica think seriously of these things, and
then pronounceon thereafonablenefs of their
attachment, I trust, upen cool reflec
tion, prejudices of this kind, will retreat
before theraysof enlightened patriotifm,and
that the time is not far didant, when the
citizens of this country will bury all predi
leiSlion for foreign nations in a love for their
own, and maintain that Independence of feu
timent, without which political Indepen
dence will be of short duration.
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
A Lyon and a Bun,
In the A urora of this morning the Lyon
of Vermont declares that for the public food
only, he ftiil intends to keep his feat till
next flexion; at which time he very g'rave
; ly prtmftt to resign in cafe he is not re-elect
! ed.
GAZE T1 E MAR IN~ E L IS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Brig Miry, Earle, Hamburgh 9c.
(via Dover
Fair American, Derke, A'-x-Caycs 41
Schr- Jupiter, Burtjank New-York j
Polly, Green, New-York 5
The (hip Hope. Benbridge, and hriLively,
Cox, of and for this port, failed from the Molt
in company with a convoy for the United Sntes
the loth ultimo.
Ihe brig Mary, Pendleton, from Jamaica,
Danith brig, long paflage, from Hamburgh, a
n< ther brig, and two fehooner»,naraei unknown,
are below.
The Louisa, Kean, 90 days from Bourdeax,
for Philadelphia, and th* Favorite, Shaw, from
Philadelphia, are arrived at 3harlcfion, where
the Lobifa will discharge her cargo, having fuf- ,
tained some damage by firikirig on the south
breaker, in palling the bar.
The brig Fair American, Burke, failed from
Aux-Cayes the 16th January, and left there
Brig Betley, Forreft .Philadelphia
William, Hurst Baltimore
_ Swift, Daniels do.
Swallow, Stoddard New-York
Gen. Warren, Rice Boflon
Eliza, Townfend Salem
Polly aad Betfcv, Townfend do*
Sophia Hail, Child Rhode liland
Trial, Woodman Ncwburyport
James, Merris New-Haven
Schr. Orion, Pryor philadelplu. '
Nancy, Golden de. 1
Patriot, Carter Baltimore 1
Sunbury Packet, Johnson New-Yorl. 1
Sally, Thnrfloii do. '
Enterprize, Blacklin, late Adams, deteafed
Marbleheao-
Susannah, late Hammond do.
r.T aqu 1 N .
Brig William, Smith Newbur.vp.it
Fair American, Crewfton 13a ti more
January 19th, off Tiberon, spoke t-e bri-
Marcus, Willcn, from Jaeguemel to Baltimnr 1
Jan. 21, offthe C'aymetes, was hoard d by ih>
Biit!i>. fiore fh p the Dover, capt "Kent, with a
Spaiiirti boat in tow, hr.und t« the Mule. 15th,
the Mole, spoke tlit fcho .ner Eajle, Ander
fon, from Jacqucmel to Baltimore, acd parted
csmpany il.e aSth off Atwoed't ICir.d. Ftk. i, 1
' t»:« >7, J®, *i ig. u 3S>, the/Vp Afii m«*
'"I x,r ' «P< •«? Murray, and frigate Topaze,
. cr.pt.-ift Chiirt >.
Arrived the b.ip M iry , rapt. Earle, from
' •"« r ''-urgh« %ver. Capt. F.arle left the
former <in the i ■ rh November, arid thelatter on
the 71 h January. He informs, that the (hip Ro«-
buck, rsm New-York, andjhe brig Lavina,
Coliin, from haltirnore tf both belonging to thil
port, pi!|rd Dover ror Hamburgh, previous to
h.s departure.
Jan.'9<h WIS boarded hv a Rritifh frigate
calkd L.a ! o i»»a, oi 36 gun*, whi«*i Informed.
tUt they had art engagement, 6 days' before,
with a Fteiuh corvette of ,6, gua ., and funis
her, but lavea jjoofthe crew,which they tbtu
had 0)1 poari. v
Capt Jiarle further informs, that the (hip
Fame, Jane., of this port,faded from Hamburgh
" or • t,t - Üb»s, two days before him.
All >l,ir llup Union, and Anthony Mangin.for
Baltimore ; and the Tenneflee, for Philadel
phia. fe.vera! day« previous to his failing.
Arrived a, Liverpool, tlte America, Malaby,
from Wew-York ; and Packet, Trott, from
notion. At Bren:en, Cleopatra, Connor.from
Baltimore ; and bally, lCe -fe, from Boston.
The following is«n extraa of a letter from a ref
pe.taHte French merchant in Nantz, to hij
fner,d in this chy. Though it is dated the 55th
of OAober lall, yet it contains many
IMPORTANT FACT*.
" We had pattered ourfelvcs too fosm with fee
mg happiness restored to France under any pofli
ble lorni of K c vernn.er,t. Wc no ldngcr expert it
—an I do not (ear to afiTure ynki, that .is things are
n«w going on, tp.Jk.lf n,v,r fi,U. 'by cuinounc.
11.g to you, my dear Sir, that we are rapidly
hack to the (late of things exhibited in 179 ( and
1794 you will be apprized of all. At prefcm,
indeed. they nei'her guillotine, nor fliout nor
drown ; BUTfHiiY B.vMSH ; anH it is proba
hie that BANJSHMKNT will he award d against .
such nrm' *r£, that the fentcuc" cannot be literally
e>.t cuted, and that they will recur to the grasd ex
pedirnt employed by Robespierre, Carrier, ar.d
olhrrs/_l>«l not thitik lam exaggeratirg • X*i»
truth and \> i are all in ureal contleri ation/ lc
is computed, that since the revointioti of the 4th
Septemh-r last, more than 70 rhouf nd per'ons,
profcrilied usetaigraats, have quit I' iris in eotife*
quencc oi the laws mid;: to that lh-ii; and the
fane scenes are'every wh re filed We all envy
the happinefi enjoyed in the Country yoa inhabit.
Ycu are neither disturbed nor torni.nted by revo
lutionary viele; ce.
" Our private rs l„ng carried < n a preda
tory war against the United Sta-es.—About sixty
arc-now arming here, who calculate with confi
dence on enriching th mfelvts at the expencc of
I Americans.; CofTm is (till the prime mover of all
| tfaefe ?gerciei. The calling is certainly profitable.
Nothing is refpe&cd—They take all witliou dif
tin&ion, and our tribunals indifcriminatejy con
demn the whole as legal prizes. In faA, it is tru
ly abominable.
P. S If you write your sentiments without re»
(Iraint, and wi(h to avoid naving your letters o
pened here, do not traß'mit them by foreign con
veyances. All are uniformly opened that come
from abroad. Nothing is omitted, that is thought
calculated to eftatliih the French republic, evtn ia
direct oppoOtion to the decided wilh of the French
people."
Unintended Murder.
A French gentleman returning to hi»
lodgings one night last week, palling thro"
Chatham Street, was (hot at, and the ball
of the pistol went through his hat. He
ran after the man, who fled quickly, crying
out " it is a mijlahe ! it is a mistake !"
£jr A slated meeting of the American Hiilofo
ph'cal society will be held at their Hall at 6 o'clock
th>s "ening. march a.
NEW-THEATRE.
FRIDAY EVENING, March 2,
\> ill !>e preft:nted the Comudy of
The ROAD TO RUIN.
With a Comic Op*ra Tnever performed in Amcr*
ica) cnlled,
The SHIPWRE K.
(C> To-morrow evening, the Hirtorical
Play of the firft part of KING HENRY
IV. with the Humours of Sir John Falliaf.
Hotfput, - . Mr. P'enneli.
FOR SALE, B r
William Pries'i'Man,
rJo. tf, South Fifth-firei:t, next door to th« War
Office, -
A large afiortment of Silver Watches
I'ime by \rsold
G H W r atch, by Mudgdc and T>utton
Uitto, " Kllcott
Ditto, Holmes
Double barrelled Onn, Mortimer
Ditto, Parker
Pair FifloU, Kaubley
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Two groce Watch Dials, and '
Some gold Watch Hands
$? R <ady money given for any quantity of Sil
ver or other watches. march I—*6t
FOR SALE,
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
N"1 XT door Kur erm to the corner of Fifth-ftreet
nccuf>ied by th;
s well known—l he rooms are spacious and coo
veuient, and furnifhsd in a handsome ha»
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
Ice House and rain water Cistern, and there is -a
Pump of good water near the kitchen aoot.
For terms apn'y to
GARRETT COTTINGER-
Mafe! ' § iir
A Hat Loft.
v.ho took a Hat from Sicard and
Qurf'nefs Call last «vet ing, with the owner? nam*
antj the number of the house and ftrcet marked in
it, is refuelled to leave it at the oflico of this Ga
zette, or kis name (hall be publifbed.
march I. j
nPHi; £௼iber informs thof«.
JL to whom he is indebted, that a per (on will
attend every day, Sundays ixcepted, ut.til the 111
of .4p?il next, from the hou-« of 10 o'clock inth«
morning till 3, o'clock in th< afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied Viy him ia Chelnnt-firee , for
the purpole of (hawing all bookt, papers and let.,
ters regarding his palt commercial trarfaflior.s to
lueh of his rreditorf as n:a'y think proper to Ettes'd
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
mnrch r. cot I A
iied Clover Seed of the beftqualityT
MADEIRA IVIKE,
Oi l, nnd fit for immediate ufc, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
• TenerifFe Wine, * •
And, Window Glaf—all of which will be fold
.n v«ry reaTonable terms, by
'John Craig,
No. 11, Dock Street,
march t wsc»tfJUST RECEIVER
and on SALE, AT
\V. Young's.Book-store,
C'-rj.cr of Cii snot aud Second flre«ts,
( Frio* 50 Ccjtti J
Cawfes qui fe font oppofces aux
l*ro s res du commrrcc, encre LA FRANCEet les
F.l'A I s-USIi de L'AMERIQI'E.
Avee le« Moyens de l'accelarer ;
Et la ccmparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de l'Angleterrc, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addressee* a Monfieurlc Mar
quis ot la Fayette. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SW AN, ancien
Membre de 1b de la Republique
du MaiTacilulTct.
Le Commnrc# eft la portion la plus impottante des
(Richefles Nationales.
LaMISRK.
Or causes that have been eppofed to the
VROGRESS of I OMMERCE botween
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA,
With the means of accelerating it;
And a somparifon of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
BE LA FATITTI.
Tranßated (into French fr»m the original E«g
k(h Maaufcrint of Col. Swam, formtrly a Mem
ber »f the Legislature of MaffachuCetts.
Conwnerce i> the molt important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
—rhe *id«nt of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. L*ssi«a*.
AT a junfture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty witl Fraace maj soon
become an ohjeA of difcuiUon, a work oi this kind
becomes extremely ulelul to those aitizens »f the
United States, who may be defirons to enable thenv
feWes to view this fubjefi, under its various at
petfls ; and they will have the fatisfadion to he
furmfhed with the neceJTary data, to judge of the
ufclulcefs «f this tranfaAioo.
Ihis work is principally diftinguilhed by the
nehnefs of the otferva' ions, the ptrfpieuity of the
aiyl the modesty of the theory which it
contains. >t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer'ebarn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeiul produce. It is addrcf
fed to the unfortunate La FaraTTt, in letters,
which fugitive fo r m, the author who could only
devote a few wotka to this occupation, was ..bliged
to adopt. Although •ircumftancis are in many
refpcAs different at the present day, from what
they were in' the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny '.ibfolute and permanent data ftiU remain, that
the jiUiciom reader will not appreciate the work
left on that account; on the contrary, M many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, every thing may be eapeSed from the ef
forts of truth and juftiaf.
LETTER. I.
General viaw of the obftades,'created in France,
to pi event the axtenCon el commerce, with the
United Stats—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon some French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
againll the quality of certain productions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demomtration of th# bad policy cf
ly ing duties on their importation, principally on
proviQons in and on fait provisions, and
filli in pa ticular—Confiderations onthe regulations
of the French cuCom-houfcs.
LETTER 11.
Obdaoks to the cxtenfion of trade with France,
pioceading from circumflsnces and individuals in
the United States—Proofs tha*. these ob&acles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and th« wisdom of govern
ment —Hiltory »f the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant [ rinciples and abdrait j
considerations on money and circulation—Causes j
of the oagnation of American trade, after the j
peace —Critical examination of French b oods, im- !
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effe&s of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wilheson chisfubjejt—
Observations oa money, weights and mcafures.
LETTHt 111.
Ettay in the fort* ■f a tableau, to appraise the im
poitations into '.he United States frtnt France and Eng*
Undun tid■ Ihe author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furniflied fn>m France or
Eoglar.d—lt is principally on this ful>je£t (which
would havcaltonifhed a mere theoriO) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kin . ot taUeaut, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only sure guides
the statesman can take for th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We oncot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swau't calculations ; and although
the prophesies of Lord Nuffield have already been
coniradified by experience, and by feversi able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the present work,
dispute w"h him the only ground on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Creat Britain to supply us with fevoral articles,
which the Englifli authoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pettishly tiffed en (if he
has any) docs n«t appear to at any time created
a partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in <789, that is to lay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did not present in France the vast
means and probabi'ity of exteufion which they now
poifrfs- that even in 1789. it was prelumable, that
Fiance would not only have the means to supply one
half of am given quantity of the prudu&ions of Frame
end upland unites, butslfoto enter into competition
with Great Britain for tne remainder, in proportion
to the wisdom of her government, and the industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calcula.ion of the exportations of the United States,
and particulsr examination sf their suitableness to
France ; this is one reafos why, notwilhllsnding the
exce l-11: work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ln-
Hcan ii by no means fupetfluoui . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation of provihom and raw materials, is every
where applied 1 and it is upon this argument, that
the author eSablilhes bis demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited ad mi (ton of lhe<produc
tionsol his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
l", rnc —Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effcfhof national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in bis National Arithmetic printed at
Bollonin the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrengtlicn in France, the pubi c and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and ihe miseries arising from the public in
Furope, arc contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
do the raofl linking iclatiens, by very'cu ioos cal
culations —Oblervalions onthe wisdom and economy
which prcfide over the public expenses in MafLehu
fetil. In tnis place ihe pa'.riotifm of the author ap
pears, with all the elryaiion winch sfjutt national
pridt inlpires. Tncancitnt g.vcrimenls ol Europe,
fays he, will leirn fiom us the art oi economy in
r:compcnfir.)> he'tivices which the country receives:
Amangliuiita.nl tefeen, that men are ch»Jen for places,
ii-nJ'.oi p'acei for men. Tins letter co:.clud<s wi:h a
cti.cral view o* itie public proaertv, depofred in the
hands of the govrsnment of the United States.
LETTER VI
exarr.i ition of the deftfti of the commer
cial coiicy of K:.~nrc v. :ih tothe United St.i:e*j
nisnv ol thele obler.at-or.s have produced the fla
f.>r v. liich thry iwr re ii tenacd, oihtrs flrll remain,
i> ri.i"ou' the rttortr.s to he made in future, ?s
j n-'ks the fhoaU aud lucks. The au 1.0
concludes his *\vork» by fixing his attention on hi*
country, and the great men v. ho have rendered it il
luftrtous; and we take a pleasure in quoting what hr
ihc present chief of our government. Jo
p/aife a man when he ekercifes a dtHinguiihed cm
ploymcnt, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he is io private life, it is the homage of
sincerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
•Lea haSitans des btats-un's, fuivant
choix lc bien public, Sc excites par ua principr de
reconnoilTancc, choi6rent M. Adams pour vice
prefident du nouve*u congres. Ses effons, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv
fruement Anglais contrc fa liberie, le re.»<h«>it ues
fulpedt a ccux qui etoient en pouv<»ir Lt. peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congrei. De ee nombr*
etoit audi M. Samuel Adams, pacriote audi intrepide,
fcju'infatigable La revolation Amtricainc doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, & afestalens
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a
dans le tragic de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniUre audi habile que grand
politique. Jit dans son ouvrage fur la defeafe de la
constitution Americaine, il a montac toutes lescan
noiflances qui forment les vrais jurifconfultes &. les
hommesde loi; connoifTinces neceffaires, pour rem
plir h»norablement les fonftiona de president du fenat
des Etats-unis.
" ~N~O T ICE.
A ManufaSary of yellow and delft ware,
Such as nev«T was in this Country before, has been
beeiv lately erefted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, fta e of New-
York, wheie any article of various forts and (hapes
may be executed, as well as earthern stoves upon a
new conlhu&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel |
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chymnies ; j
they are btrfides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying (•
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a Ikillfu) hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the fa»d ware. Generous appoint,
xnents will be given. Apply asob- ve, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Eiq.
No. 71 Sooth sth Street
Feb. 19. eod4w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothelaflwill ind teftamentof
William Hhysham, drccaCed, and poflif
fio s given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ftre.ts, eonfift*
ingof theheufe, No. 107, with the lot en which
it is ere&ed, a ftat!.', and other improvements—
Thekoufe is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and ae>9 feet deep, with a well of water and
• very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The stable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjeysthe perpetual privilege
•f a 16 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,ext«id
kig to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofTefles with respeCt t» free ventila
tion , renders it wall worthy the attention of any
perfah wUhing »o possess an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No tt, 'Vine
Sweet—of
Robert Hay sham,
or £ A<Hng E»e«itor«.
Fran-cis Bowts Sa.yr*, J
January II « §
NOTICE.
ALL perfoni who have any demands against
th« estate of Willam Fleewtood, «f
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly ittefted ; an 4 those who are indebted
to the fame, are dclired to make immediate
payment, ta
GEO. DOBSON, \ . .. ,
No. »5, So. Third-street. 5 Adm,n >J lr r
January 4. dtf
Ran away from the Subferiber,
On the 24th January lafl,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ot a middling fixed stature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the sac
! carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
t takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-ftrcet,
{hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors f. id Girl after this no
ticc, Avail be prosecuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10. sot
A'ewTork, January 14, 17985
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subfcriptioii,
An Appeal to Impartial Pofterity 3
Br Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Hifiorica! Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in 2
, vols.o<S\avo, of 460 pages each.
1 They will he printed on fine paper and a new
1 type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
-1 u me—one third of the Subfcnption money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
j maitider when the work iseompleat.
, To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
, acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
: be made.
0" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, N«. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Rookftorei in New-York - Also, by William
1 ' Young, c»rner f Second and Chefnut street, nd
the Editor cf the Gazette of the United States,
. Philadelphia.
j As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
, ! are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
> | compleated with the utmofl dispatch.
• i Feb. 10. eodim
I PROPOSALS,
; j FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIOV,
A NEW AND INTI * tSTI NO WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and atif
t demeanors, by which public and private proper
• ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
: And fuggefling remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
t for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
, fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
f This work will be printed in a targe oiUvo, on
» an excellent Engiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
• ' fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
' of ()me Dollar and a half; although the last London
» , edition, oa inferior paper and meanly bound, in
| now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To non-sub
• fcrfberi the price will be raised*
'J Whatever encouragement may be given by fub
-1 fcription, it will be committed to the prafs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be ro&dy for
publication early in April.
Subscriptions will be thankfully receivedat
Benjamin D/vviEbVs book-Ooie, No 68, High
ftreef, ar:d by moli of the other booksellers in rhe
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
iucl Campbell, and A. Prummond, in New-York.
January 31. saw:a
PROPOSALS,
BY TBF
bifurance Company of North America.
!-'rr Insurance sgaintt Fiat, on Dwelling-
Hoi.fcs, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) dillant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
f Common lufurancet, oa hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger preiri«m will he required, which
will vaiy according to circumftanc. s, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per innum ; but in some in-
Ilances, where the property ir.fured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered dill more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to cfrcum(lance«.
Monies and Ware Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of Tone or hrick, well
cunftrufled, sb a« to b» guarded as well as may be
againlt fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildiiljrs and occcupatior.s in their neigh
borhood, will he deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Allb Goods and * .erchan lize, not o! an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; hat if more than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi.;
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. lnfuranees will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, if premiums proportioned
to tho risque. But i? is not easy to arrange thtfe i
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defciibe j
each with the neceflary accuracy. F.ach caf must |
therefore he decided upon according to thecircum- |
fiances attending it ; and these circutnftances wili, !
in general, appear from the defcriptibn accompa
uymg the application,
Bu ldings partly conflru&ed of brick or Hone,
are preferable to tnofe wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to '
be taken into view. And with refpe<£t to goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are txpofed, either
to commence or. to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive davage by
wet, or hy sudden and hasty removal, or to be sto
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
stood hy the parties .
ill. The Insurance is net binding till the ftipu
lateil premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
ft # ual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whethar the policy be immediately
signed or not.
sd. lnfuranees may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were tinderftood hy ths Insurers at the time
the former insurance was mads ; but the payment
of the premium is elfential to such renewal; and
if the party ir.fured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, befor-he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured j
during such time ; Sor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The (uhje.fl of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance bemadeon the fame
property j it must he masle known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made 011 such ap- 1
plication will he void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on eonfignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy; but
they are not to be considered ss insured otherwise.
Jth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invafi.n, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion*
ed by gnnp.wder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the Building, or amongll the pre
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miff.ry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, -nedals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollar, each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree
mcnt.
7th. No insurance will be made for a (horter
term than orie year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium hy way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated m like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LofTas sustained by (ire .□ property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defci iption of the property to be inftirod will
be expedted with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
hy tha owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and atteftad before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleige of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpefl \olioajei and other Buildings,
1 ft. The site and pofiri. n ; describing the
street of road on or near which the building
(lands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguiihment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftabli(hed, and
engines provided,in the place or ntighbou hood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftoneor wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the omfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpe»slive height and
thickness j the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls j what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 4 whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for a(hes.
3d. The dimensions of the building andhow
divided, and the style in which it is finilhed f.
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely at a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose , also an estimate of the value of the house
or building independent of the ground.
4th. Ti efituatior with refpe*3 to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lead one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diilance, how built, of what materials, and
bow occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the diilance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Refpeiling goods in Hobfes, Warehouses, &c.
1. A j-eneral description of the building in
which they are kept will be expe<£led, similar in
all refpefls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
selves.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or oiher packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kiud, a general
I eflimate 0/ the value of etch kind proposed to
be iqfured ; but in the lift maute* I
ness of description it rot expedled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem-|
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable fphits, fulphiur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods ot ah inflammable kind opened.-
Gi.ifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking plalTes, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by muiftures, or particularly
obnoxious t« theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters p»lt paid, d.reded to the Secretary of
the Board of DiVeflors, wiil We duly attended
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
Br order of the Board, '
EBF.NEZEU HAZARD, Stc'r/.
Office of the Insurance Company e/"North )
America ; Pbilad. Feb. I, 17 )
Feb. 14.
TO THE
Citizens of the United States, j
THE Mifjianary Society of Philadelphia, imprefl- i
ed with the importance of ameliorating the
condition and augmenting the happiness of man- :
kind, are impelled hy motive* of rel gion and be- |
nevolencc to artempt the propagation of christian
aud civil knowledge among the aborigines ot Ame
rica.
Thofc who have experienced the ble/Tid
of real religion, muil feel a desire to
its principles, wherever the footftep3of a fellow j
man may he found -An opportunity now offers,
for such ro evince their finoerity, by laboring to
gether in accomplishing the ancient predict ion
" The knowledge of tbs Lord Jball cover the earth as the
iva ers do the fern .** *
Living in an age when the devaluations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the bleflings of
peace, all good and enlightened citiceas will con- j
cur with us, that every step which tends to intro
duce the arts of civilization among the Indians,
mull be highly favorable to tfreinterelt of the Uni
ted States.
The eafyaceef* which may be had at present to
the different tribes, by means of government ef
tablilbments in various parts of their territory—- j
their tranquil state, and the freindly disposition of I
fomc of their chiefs—difpofe the Society to believe
| that their address is not premature. They prcfume
that nothing more is neceflary to excite the atten
| titan and secure the fupp-art of their fellow citi
zens than to present their plan to the consideration
of tke public.
THE Subscribers, penetrated with a convic
tion that their duty and happiness are involved in
promoting the knowledge and diffufing the spirit
of„the Chriflian religion, do afibeiate for the pur
pose of fupportinga mifiionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and the frontier fettlemer.ts of the
United States, as an eligible mean of accomplifh
ifig so desirable an objedi.-—Aware of the perni
cious effe&sof party spirit, they think it neceflary
to adopt for their guide (as wall as to exhibit to
; the world the principles by which they will he
governed) the following
CONSTITUTION.
I. The aiTociation fh.iii be called the Missionary So
ciety.
11. Any person Agoing tke constitution and paying
the sum of one dollar to the treasurer and the
further sum of one foliar yearly, is a member
during the payment of his or her subscription.
1 111. The society lhall ele& by ballot an ading com
mittee to consist of a treat'.:rer, secretary and se
ven members, one third of whotn lhall be re- j
newed every fix months—five lhall form a quo* I
rum ro tranfaA business and have power to call
special meetings. x
IT. The society (hall mett every three months at
an appointed place to ena<sl the neceflary laws
and deliberate on the report of the committee
refpe&ing the state and of the institu
tion.
V. No miflionary (hall be considered qualified who j
is not capable of pra&ifingor teaching some ufe
ful art as well as a r-tienal system of religion.—
No other test fkall be required, excepting, evi
dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
names and adopt {imply that of Chris
tian.
VI. Should the funds ©f the society permit, infti
tut:on< fi-r inftrmdling the Indians in the agri
cultural an«l mechanical arts, ftiall be established
among them. *■*
VII. As feon as a fufficient number have fuk
fcribed, the committee lhall pufelifli under their
infpe&ion a periodical miscellany entitled tke
" Missionary," and the profits arising from the
sale lhall be applied to the funds of the society.
%* No alteration or amendment lhall be made
in the above conflituiion. without the consent of
two thirds of the members, and every such im
provement must be proposed three months prior to
its difcuflion
The constitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-street.
£s* The Little Turtle t one of the most influen
tial characters among the Indians North Weft of
tke Ohio (who is now in this city) is very anxious
t® forward the views of the society. The Inter
preter, capt. Wells, isalfo very fauguine to the
profpeft of success, and promises all the aid in his
power. February Z4.
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confifls of 9zeacres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Ecrl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river PaWck.
Th-r. are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.and.a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confilU of 1500 finabearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
yarie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tret*, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 <i«.
from Morris-Town, and IX from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc treuble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds, l'leafe to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
February 1. eodtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere *c
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refiddice in
Philadelphia j and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool. Ihe has ma ie a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every kranch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended hy Mrs.
Gi'oombridge and maQers excelling in rtieir
refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street 1.
June sth, »797. Jimftf
The situation n perfeflly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for sale by WILLIAM YOLUG, No. J»,
earner of Second and Chcfnut- recti,
In one large volume, S vs.
(Price of the common paper, neatly bound, 1 JolUrt
etnls ; fine ditto, fl boards, 3 dollars J
americaisTgazetteer,
I EXHIBITING, in alphabetiftl order, a much
_j more full and accurate Account, than hat
been (riven, of the States, Province!, Counties,
Cities, Towns, Villager, Rivera, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forti, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wist-Inbia lilands,
and other Ulaads appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, ProduAioua, Commerce, Manufa<9ure«,
Curiofuies, See. of the leveral Countries, and of
tkeir important Civil DiviGons—and the Longi
tude and Latitude, the Bearings and Diftanccs,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lage* ; —with a particular Defeription of The Geor
gia IVeJiern Territory. The whole compelling up
wards of Seven Thowland ditliad Articles.
Collc3ed and compiled from the best Authori
se, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». a.
Author of the American UnivcrfalGeography—
Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences—and Member r.l the Maflathufettt His
torical Society.
[lliluflrated with seven new and neat Maps.}
(Publijhed actor Jing to a& of Congrefs.J
Also, FOk SALE, as above,
Mr. Alerfe's Univerfa] Geography,
In two large t vo. volumes, price 4 dols. jo cts.
Dittn, abridged, at I dollar.
February »6. eo4t
Neto-Tork, February, 1798.
PROPO3JLS*i GEORGE FORM AN,
lOR PRINT INC Br SUESORIfTIO N,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONS PIRACY against
all the Religions an'l Governments of EU*
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Fret
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. C»l
---le&cd from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. «.
Profejfor of Natural Pbilofopby, and Secretary to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nosh tua res agi/isr paries cum proxipsvs erdct.
THIS wort will be put to prefsas soon at
400 fubferibers arc obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc (hall bepriat
cd with an t legant new type, and on paper ot fu
; perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat odavo, handsomely bound and lettered
the price will be one dollar aid fifty cents.
Those who procure I a fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
%• The above woik comes from the pen of J,
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation -n the literary world—the fa<sU therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thereafoning
and argumen s thence d> duced, while they difco
vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse at, well at to in
ftruift. A scene of villainy it developed by the
author fufficient to appal the flouted heart.—Th«
danger to be apprehended from secret fecieti.s it
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation rem the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriilian by llubborn and incontro
vertalile f»3s.
Subscriptions taken in by G. Forman, 2\ r o. 46,
tlVilllam Jircet, oppofsie the Pofi-Ofjice, and by tie refpse
ive boohfsellers in Ntxu York and Philadelphia.
February 38.
Saliffeury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoting to contra& his bufi
nels, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces*
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, ail
in pctfett repair, as are all the Water Works conne£l
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built tor the porpofe of catting Cannon
for this State.—There are aboi* two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which isunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pa ft u re. The Cannon lately manofadured th« re*
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equai
to any in ?"he world ; for not o«ie of finty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 84 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed «n proving. The fiiis
; ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch o£
manufacture, aad a place of arms lying in the state
of Cenne&icut, and only 30 miles from several laud *
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water iffuiug
from g large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of othef
ufelul purposes The purchaser can beaccommodaU
ed with all the ftoak and utensils, and have poCeflion
'onor before the fir ft of Junensxt, and prepar tion
may be made in the mean ume for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. Fof
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ECq. one of the ReDrefentawvei
in COl grefs for this State ; Mr, Bivid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.argr and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or o«
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
0 £t. 17. eotf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would *nfwer the purpose of
a country Printer as well as new.
Enquire of th« Printer.
City Comniiffioner's Office,
'January ntb, 1798..
FOR THE INFORM ATION OF THE CITIZeKJ.
THE following arrangement it made by th«
Ciid commissioners, for cleanGng th,
ftr.ets, &c.
Diflrtil No. 1. —From the norfh fide of Vine
ftrtet, to the south fide of Mulberry flreet j tt»
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fid* of Mulbrry ftreef, to
the south fide of Oefnut ftrrert, to be under the
fupennteiidance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide Spruce street, tr be under the
fuperintendance of Jotirph Claypo ./e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce f fret, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Huberts. mwfim
"Jii/l Published, .
And to be bad of Messrs DoV>fon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipaf in t*»e
city .price one dollar, twirty-frvc centspn boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribe 6 and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d.
June to.