of m States, ak D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
4 y,
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street. •
NuMBES 1745.J
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- Tj
on 'Walnut street Wharf,
195 casks of nails alTortccl At
»o bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8 Chi
j 3 casts yellow ochre c
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each Nai
Madeira Win«« g
Tenenffe do. in hozfheads and pipes To t
Old Port do. in hhas.
Empty Claret bottles See
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflinetJ &c. 6d.
assorted for the Weft-India market She
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and XO coils of cordage 1
Writing states, ink (lands and prefles E"|
ao puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine 111
160 bundles (hcathing paper A
riTjt-V. THE BRIG ]
AMAZON,
For Sale, or Charter. I _
Nicklin (2* Griffith.
April X tuthfof.tf Fri
For Norfolk, Peterfburgh and
Richmond, 2
The fajl failing Schooner 15
FAVOURITE,
Wm. W. Weymouth,majler,
WILL fail in all next meek. For Freight or Pa J
fare (having excellent accommodations) apply to the MaJ
tcr on board, at "Jeffe and Ilubsrt IV'aln s wl^rf, or to
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166 South Front Jlreet.
April 5 3*
" " FOR SALF~
T'Cw"} Havannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed tomorrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis** wharf, from on hoard the brig Active, Will
iam Williams, mailer.
jfrftwjg&w ' ALSO,
faid Brigfor sale, _
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to P,
Jehu J. lolling/worth & Co.
march 30. §
This Day will be Landed, P 1
At Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
froai Mtthga—
FrefW Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in cheftaand ha.f chests
Raisins of the Sun iu kegs
Figs in do. P
Soft Ihell'd Almonds in sacks f 0
Grapes and Olives in jars m
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins in boxes
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Alm«nds in boxes fc
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s. •
The above Brig for sale
immediately applied for ; file
' s a remarkable fine faft failing
(Tel, having made her paflagc
to and frona Malaga in little more than 60 days. J;
match 16. j lot j
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN, p
The Hamburgh Brig r
HENRIETTA, <
Wmt, Peter P. Schmidt, Majler, <
\TOW lying at JefTe ?nd R. Wain s wharf A
iN ft out, flrong vessel, ST about 170 tons bur J
then, in good order ; has two thirds oi her cargo -
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT W KINTZING,
No. 95, North Watei-ftiett.
Wlohave JUST RECEIVED, and FOk SALE,
11 bale. Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
1 do. Vatterbornes ,
I do. bleached Heflians
j package Oil Cloth
I rheft and 8 barrels SnufT Boxes
30 Liqucr Cases
sa anchors pearl Baryle, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harness,
Spurs, &c.
they have rot s.ut —
Claret in cases. Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in frnallboxes, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow G'afs, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bars, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
, march fe>. "" h " w
" For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J ohn Majler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gag«d.-r-For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
February 26 s—-
For Sale or Charter,
=C3cV "lhe Snow
GOOD HOPE
Will carry about nao barrels, and
isready totake in a cargo. Forterms
" Pragers V Co.
No. ijl, South SecoHd-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Kum, Madera, Lisbon, and Tenenffe wino.
November 7- dtf
notice
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state or New-
Jersey, hath presented hu petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common ITeaa, in and
fcr the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged tor ora-
I «ain(t bi» liberation, pursuant to an afl of the
I L-giflature of this State,entitled "an for
' the rclMtf of insolvent debtors, palUd the 16th
day of Jaruary 1798— And the the fa.d court
did appoint Monday the i«th day ol March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle P.ecinrt, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are "qoefUd to take
CHARLtS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb.
r Feb. 14 — I*ws«r
PHILADELPHIA; FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 13, 1798.
Thomas Ssf Joshua Fisher, |
have for sale, _ ler,
At No. J, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge, con
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee cer
caps and saucers J ur
Nankeens, black fattins and taflfities are
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannocs out
China and English umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among -which are 1
Scets thread in boxes
6d- Bd. lod. 1 id. and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white Fr
lead •
English scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
lift barreilsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious Store inDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three florie* high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §"
Juit Landing Ha
From the brig Harmony from the Ifleof I rance,
And for sale By j
Joseph Anthony iff Co. 1
10 bales Bourbon cotton of a superior quality at
150 bags do. coffee
14 calks do. Indigo
april , . d ' ot - f
JUST RECEIVED, to '
FROM FO R T-A U-P RIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee Fr
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
IGO bags do. A
110 hogsheads of Muscovado Sugar
So barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molasses
4 bale 9 of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS £3" FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march 12.
A Bargain.
A quantity of Glafs
FOR SALE, of different sizes, at a very large
discount from the sterling cofl. If this Glass is g t
not disposed of before the sth of April, it will be
(hipped from this port.
For terms appiy to No. 89, South Third-llreet.
march a 6. § lw j n
THE PARTNERSHIP OF N
WELLS MORRIS, «
HAVING expired on the tlth February last,
all persons having demands against the said
Partnerlbip, are requested to furnith their accounts
Tor settlement ; 3nd those indebted to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubferiber.
GIDEON H. WELLS. r
N. B. The business will be lurried on as hereto
fore, hy the filbfcriber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
ket-flreet. rw march 14. p
FOR SALE,
bv the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet, g
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjlirtg of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes JPunjum Cloths
Sanahs Guizey do.
" Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Mabaragonges Pat,na Hkfs.
Ginghims Mslmu: do. '
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy <
r Piniafcoes .Choppa Romals I
o Salgatchys Sooty do. (
Gillie Romals Pcrfians of various col. t
Mock Pulicats 1
400 tons SUGAR 1
as,ooo lb. PEPFEU. 1
i, Witlings & Francis. \
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges ire now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours. •
s, February 8.
Frefli I eas.
»p
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
ty Captain Cooper, from Capton,
k. And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hit Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
' Bohea,Souchong,Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
n " ALSO,
China Ware, assorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caflia, large garden
and common tans, fattin and luteflring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiafr,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §_
„d ~ JUST RECEIVED.
Ms And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey n8 High-street
T. Pobfon, 41 South Secoud-flreet and the
Bo'okfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
Z BEACON FULL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive :
By a Lady of Bojlon.
[bl- ANALYSIS OF BO O K I.
|of Allusion to the surrounding Profped—lnvocation
. w _ to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Hirtoric
ccs Mufe—FiAinn discarded—Dedication to Waft,
ind ington—Th* Aflion openiat the Retreat of the
,1 Colunibiansfrom Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory oP hb Brother—Death of War
ren—Perf«nification of Fortune and Fame—
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
T chief Comrhu.d—Formation of ths Columbian
6 Camp at CambriJge—Natural, moral, or poli
iurt tical Hiflory of the several States —Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts SufTcr
,'le i"gs—Negotiation for t'ne fafe Retreat of the
Vf n British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
>ich Congrcf:—Declaration of Independence—Cha
rader of the Columbian Soldies—T*he Poet's
prophetic ApoP.rophe to the Progress of Free
dom througb«ut the World,
march 30. §
'"pHE term of Co-partnerffiip between the sub
JL fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil- •
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual /v
consent will not be renewed* rhe delts and eon- c
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miiler, t y j
Jun. to whom all those the p»rtnerfhip, acr
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay. flat
JOHN MILLER, Jun. „ev
ALEXANDER J. MILLER, am
February j. §'f j 11 !
. LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from far
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar, to i
800 (I©. Ginger ply
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 _
Alex. J. Miller is" James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfbip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co. s0
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
the)' have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, t j l(
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia ; where afi(
they now have, and intend kceeping a general as- ar<
fojtment. of India, German, Irijh, French and Ilri- tQ
tijh Mannfaduresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a short crecit.
Febrcary 19 - §^£
NOW LANDING,
From on board the fchr. Charlotte from Boston,
30 thefts Bohea
30 do- Hyson TEAS pl_
36 do. Souchong j on
And from on board the schooner Favourite from (^j
Ri. hmoud ( Vir.) w ]
648 bVils. fuperfine 7 pj QUR us
66 do. fine 5 ve
And also a quantity of WHEAT a 1
For Sale on reasonable terms, by w
GEORGE PLUMSTED, fr,
No. 16G, South "Front street. er
april 3 33 v»w,
TOBE SOLD, 0
TWO handsome new three flory brick Dwell
ing Houses, ten rooms in each ; a Livery
Stable, large enough'to contain thirty horses and a
large Coach House; all completely finilhed. Thfcre »
is a convenient yard with a pump in it, for the ac
commodation of the buildings. Any person
inclining to purchafc, by applying at the buildings,
No - 46 and 48 North Sixth ttseet, may view them,
and be informed of the terms, which will be made A
easy if required.
N. B. The houses will be fold separately or to- oi
gether, as it may best suit the purchafur ; one of
the houses is well calculated for a tavern or private
faifiily. »eoct mpril 1.
Red Clover Seed as the beitquality, p
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window' Glass—all of which will be fold
en very reasonable terms, by
John Craig, 1
No. 11, Dock Street.
march I w&stf
WantetT, - ~
An aflive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
aad do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good Wages, and no Other needaj>- ( -
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 § i
~~ ~~ NOTICE. i
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred >
Debt of the United States of the fallowing i
Hefcription, viz—N». 10033, 10034, and 1003J, 1
for 5000 dollars«ach, dated Bth May, 1797, arid
ftan.:ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni- 1
ted States, in the mme of Benjamin Waddiugton, >
of Lanover Houfe,near >bergavenney in England, '
Esq. have been 101 lby the capture ot the ship Uac- t
cbus, from hence to London,in June last. This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that 1
apr lication will be made at the Treasury of the U
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
t Waddingtmi y Harwood.
march 12 i>6w
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application w ill be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, (landing in the name of the SubCcri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11, 1797—the fame
having been loft. «
JOHN GRAHAM.
' march 5 s6^
TO LET,
And may le entered on immediately,
*> A good dry Store,
Threeflories high, and in an excellent Hand for
bufiaefs. Apply to
' Thomas Iff Joshua Fither,
g march I. § No. 5, Dock-llreet.
~~N OTIC E.
e- -TT THERE AS a Certificate to Hannah Siiil
en VV ly, of Oxted Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinster, or her alligns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-fchree cents, in the deferred (lock of
f, « the United States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
"• Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year 1796. The fubferiher, the said Han
— nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate. HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 1 3j . " w6w -
City Commissioner's Office,
'January nth, 1798.
, FOR THE INFORMATION OF THS CITIZ»N«.
following arrangement is made by the
1 said commiflioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c
on Diflriil No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
" c street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; te
* (,e under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
6 1 From the south fule of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Chefnut ftrreet, to be under the
. fuperintendance of Williart Moulder.
the 3- From the south fide of Chefnut street to
ia„ the nerth fide of Spruce street, to he under the
jli- fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
,m- 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
cr- south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
the perintendance of Hugh Roberts,
tof When pumps are out of order south of
ha- Hi'gh-flreet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
et's corner of South and Fifth-Qrects, or Godfrey Geb
ee- ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet j and north of
High street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saffafras
-5 flrcet, between Sixth and Seventh-Greets.
TO BE SOLD,
A Very Valuable Farm,
SITUATE 011 theNelhaminy creek, Buck'scoun- j u|
ty, contartni' ff about 148 acrLS, of which about 30 j
acre? are excellent wood-land ; the remainder mea
dow and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
state ; the whole under poll and rail fence, chiefly
new lad fummcr. On the premises are a log-house
and barn. The situation for a country feat is per
haps one of the mod eligible in the vicinity of Phi
ladelphia, lying on the Nefhaminy, with the ad
vantage of a-ianding plate within 100 yards of the
farm-houfe, and commanding a very excetiliveview
of the surrounding country : it is about three quart-
ers of a mile from th«j floating bridge, 17 3-4
miles from Philadelphia, and 2 i-amilesfrom Bris
tol. For terms of sale and further information ap
ply to Thomas Ben jer, Esq. W Bristol, or
WILLIAM WALN,
No. 144, South Second itreet. M
April 7. .Itav.-tF fa
N O T i C E. en
THE Partnrrlhip of the fubfcriiers, 'radin-un
der the firn, of PAXSON RICHARD
SON, was dissolved on the Cxth of the third month
last, by mutu 1 consent. All persons indebted -
thereto are earnestly requested to make payn ent ;
and those that have any demands against the fame,
are-desired to present their accounts for settlement
to either of the fubferibers.
4 Isaac Paxfon, 2>
Nathaniel Ruhttrdfon. jj
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, * 79®- to
ISAAC PAXSON,
Continues to carry on the buiinefs at the usual
place, No. Id, South Third street, where he has __
on hand a large aflortmeirt of Ironmongery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and Brass Wares, which he wi 1 f-ll
vvholcfale or retail, on low terms, for Caih or the
usual credit, He expeds to receive by the firft
veflels from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull, p,
a large addition to his present aflortment ;ind
will execute with puniluality and care any orders
from the former customers, and hisfnends in gen
eral. * aw * w
. MESSAGE ~ A
Of the President of the Jjnited States,
To both Houses of Congress,
APRIL 3, '9B
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
for sale '
At No. 63 North 3d street, at Way &Gross's
Printing-office, No. 1J Arch street, and at the _
office of the Editor, No. 119, Chefnu-ftreet
JUST PUB LISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE, f'
(Price 15 Cents) _ '
Reflexions on Monroe's View
CP THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECBTirI,
As publilhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES, l
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In 'which the Commercial Warfare of France is traced (
to the French Fadion in this Country, as its Source,
and the Motives oj Opposition, Iffc.
march 30.
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E. G, M. de LA GRANGE,
Walnut-Oreet, No. no,
1 "QEING duly conamiffioned and sworn in the a-
II bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
. Engliih, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua
ges : he flattershimfclf that his former profeffion,
I as advocate, both in France and St.Domingo, has
well qualified him to tranflite any Court proceed
ings or other Judiciary instruments,
1 N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING Ll
. BS.ARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it confiftsnow of about 1500 volume",
!' the best adapted to answer the purpose of thcD
t who wish both to improve in the Language, and
t obtain ufelul inflruilion and plcafore.
. march 30- " wlm
Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
THE fubferibers Commiffiontrs appointed by
an ait of aflembly of this Commonwealth,
entitled " An aft to authorize the Governor of
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company
»« f or ere6ting a permanent bridge »ver the river
e " Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadclphii,
hereby give notice, that Books are provided as the
3 law dire&s ; and that we will proceed to receive
• fubferiptions for the Company Stock, on the ninth
day of April next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be received
from ten o'clock in the morning till two o'clock,
P. M. of that day ; and the books will continue
open during those hours of succeeding days, until
the number, required by the said Jaw to enable the
, r Commiflioners to certify the fame, to the Governor
for incorporating the Stockholders, be fubfenbed
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEROT,
GODFREY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, lt)tb March, 1798. 27 —3 awt^
2 The Annual Eledion
of TT'OR Directors and a Treasurer of the Library
;y, f Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
011 Library, in Fifth street, on Monday, the 7th of
n- May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
°f the Treafarer will attend to receive the annual
:r " payments.
As there are several (hares on which fine? are
due, the owners of them, or their reprefintatives,
are hereby notified, they will be forfeited, a
greeably to the laws of ihe company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said May,
or within ten day« after.
'• By ord»r of th* Direflors,
he BENJ R. MORGAN, Secretary,
he April 7 3 avtr
ne Prison Manufadlory.
t©
"' FOR SALE,
*° At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel.
" e phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to tody
t0 Flooring Brads, Spriggs, fiddle and card Tacks
he Oakum and chipped Logwcod
Shoemakers and Sadlsrs Thread
he Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
fu- tomb and heac Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heats, tills, c .
of All which may he had on reasonable terms,
the Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
eb- a moderate price.
1 of Orders from a diflanre, dirr&cd to Daniel Tho
*33- rjas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December »6. mth6m
[ Volume XIII.
PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter cases,
<XP A SU I'LHIOR <JUAI,ITV,
]uft imported, in the Henrietta, P. ?. Schmidt,
master, from Oporto,
ULSOj ON HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Bo ft on Beef
Queens'' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales
Guns allotted in cases, Cutlafles, Swords, &c.
Fo> Sale by
THOMAS to* JOHN KETLAND.
iValnut street wharf,
april 11. tot
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. 7 thy 1798.
rHE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the l'evepth day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three p'clock in the afternoon, to
tleift twelve Managers and a Trfcafurer, for the
ensuing year.
By ordsr of a board of Matters.
SAMUEL COATES, s*c'ry.
April 7 1 - dtE
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE beoks will continue open from day to
day, between the hours of io, A. M. anil
2, P. m. foi receiving lubfcriptions, at the City '
Hall. Those who mean » fublcribe, will plealjc
to came provided with cash or bank notes, a»
checks cannot be taken.
D. CALDWELL, Secretary
to ibi Comm jfiotu rs.
April 10. dif
SILVERWATCIIES. "
Cash will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCHFS, by applying im
mediately at No. 15 South Fifth street, between
Market and Chefnut itrcets.
April 10. * 6t
Now Opening,
At Willi a mM'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general afiortment of Horseman's
PifloU, direct from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch B xes, Va
■lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April y dtf
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at,a reduced price—For
file by JAMES YARD.
April 4. diw
" TO BE LET,
And poj/ejjion given immediately,
A genteel three story brickHoufe,
Itfo. 7, North Eighth street,
14 feet front and 55 feet deep, with a handsome
1 Garden. Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
April 4 §
Just Received,
and for sale by
ISAAC HARVET, Jun.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of GeoTgia Cotton.
» ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes Molasses
» RaiGns in kegs
' Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons of Nicaragua wood.
4th mo. 4th §2w
A great Bargain.
5 TYTILL BE SOLD, if applied for immediately,
» YV Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills of Cre
j dit, upon intsreft at five per cent, per annum r.ow
lodged in the Treasury, and endorsed by the Unit
ed »tates, with a promise to " pay the intercft au
- nually." Enquire at the office of
TH3MAS McEWEN tfCo.
f -April it. 3t
f For Sale,
f By Elliston ?ff John Perot,
T , No- 41, North If'atar Street,
liOndon particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r casks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
. A few bales Allibad Ccfles
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvals, No. 1, to q
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China,
march 3 tu&f4w
6 To the Afflidled with
NERVOUS Difordcrs, lofsof appetite, female
complaints, debilitated constitutions, inward
weaknefles, l<»wnefsof spirits, fsminal weaknefles,
indigestion, decayed, weak or relaxed constitutions,
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, linking anx-
F icties, and tremori, which so dreadfully afft<& the
weak, the sedentary and the delicate, every symp
tom of extreme debility, attendant on the indifcrc
tions of youth, the consequences of a 3ifiipated
7 life ; excess of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
le the immoderate use of tea, fpiritnous liquors, or
"f any intemperance ; disorders incident to young
:n girls and women at a certain period of life—
>l TUE CELEBRATED
re Cordial Restorative Balsam,
:s, It a medicine of abfolutety fpecinc andunparal
a- leled virtues, in thefpeedy and eflfeiStual cure of th»
he above disorders, having (lood a trial of many fuc
,y, csfsfnl years, during which period many have been
rellored from the brink of the grave.
Youth and age of either sex, are equally thoob
y. jc3s of this Rctforative, and they will uniformly
participate.in its falubrions qualities and effe<sU ;
for whether the system has received a (hock, and U
debilitated, from imprndencirs or inattention in
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will give present relief to, and afford a pleating
profpe<ft of returning health and strength, by giv
ing tone to the nwfcular fyllem and organs of di
gellion, and in agreat measure renovating the coa
ftitutioii.
Women at any period of life, rray by this medi
cine be freed from the moll aiHi<9ing disorder* in
ies, cideat to the sex, and at a certain period it is molt
cs » highly ufcful.
: • The Cordial R«ftora:ive Balsam it fold genuine
(only) by the proprictcr, Dr.JAMES CHURCH,
at a t his medicine store, No. i. South Third (ireet,
nexc Market-'reet, Philadelphia ; where may be
ho- hac an account of the virtues of tins RefWative
aiuialill of curd.
1 april 3 aawjwLAWS oFTHFiniiEDS TJTES.
• i&y Kstut/ioiitij,
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the Ctty of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and nintty-feven.
AN ACT
For an amicable settlement of the limits wits
, the flute of Georgia, and authorizing the
ejllhfhment of a government in the Missis'•
fppi territory.
Sec I "13 Eit enacted by the Senate and
13 House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress a/fern
bled, That the President of the United
States be, and he hereby is authorised to
appoint three comrriflioners ; any two of
whom {hall have power to adjtiu and deter
mine iMth such commiflioners as may be ap
pointed under the legislative authority of
the Hate of Georgia, all interfering claims
of the United State 3 and that state, to ter
ritory fitnate weft of the river Chatahonchee !
north of the thi' ty-firft degree of north lat
itude, and south of the ceflion made tt> the ;
United States by South Carolina : and also
to receive any propofah for the relinquilh
trent or ceflion of the whole or any part of
the other territory claimed by the state of
Georgia, and out of the ordinary jurisdic- :
ti<'n thereof.
S'c. 2. Be it further enabled, That all ihe '
lands thus ascertained as the property of the ;
United States, (hall be disposed of in such j
manner fhall be hereafter direfted by law ; j
and the nett proceeds thereof /hall be ap
plied ts the finking and discharging the
public debt of the United States, in the
fame manner #s the proceeds of the other
public lands in the territory north weft of
the river Ohio.
Sec. 3. Be it fnrther enabled, That all
that traft of country bounded on the weft
by the Mrfliflippi : on the north by a line to
be drawn duecaft from the mouth of the
\nfous to the Chatahouchee river ; on the
east by the river Chatahouchee ; and on
the louth hy the thiity firft degree of north
latitude; (hall be, and hereby is conftitnted
one diftrift, to be called the Mifliflippi
rerritcry : and the President of the Unit
ed States is hereby authorized to eftablith
therein a government in all refpefts similar
to that now exercifedin the territory north
west of the Ohio, :xcepting and excluding
the last article of the ordinance made for
the government thereof by the late congress
on the thirteenth day of July sue thousand
seven hundred and righty-feven, and by and
with the advxe and consent of the senate to
appoint all the necessary officers therein,
who (hall refpeftively receive the fame com- |
penfations for their fervicei, to be paid in
the fame manner as by 1 w established for
similar officers in the territory north-weft
of the river Ohio ; and the powers, duties
and emoluments of a fuperintendant of In
dian affairs for the southern department,
(hall be united with those of governor. ]
Provided a/ways. That if the President of
the United States should find it most expe
dient to establish this government in the re
cess of congress, he shall ne»erthelefs bavr
full power to appoint and commiflion all of
ficers herein authorised ; and their commif
fione (hall continue in force until the end of
the feflion of congress next ensuing the ef
tahlilhment of the government.
Sec. 4. Be it Jurther enaded, That the 1
territory hereby constituted one diftrift for 1
the purposes of government, may at the '
dilcretion of congress, be hereafter divided '
into two diftrifts, with separate territorial (
governments in each, similar to that eftab- 1
lifhed by th IS act.
See. 5. Be it further enaded, That the
establishment of this government (hall in no 1
refpeft impair the right of the state of I
Georgia, or of any -person or perfonn ei- J
titer to the jurifdiftibn or the foil of the said |
territory, but the rights and claims of the ,
said state and all persons intert fled are here- j
by declared to be as firm and available, as '
if jhis aft had never been made.
Sec. 6. And he it further enaded, That '
from and after the establishment of ihe said j
government, the people of the aforefaid ,
territory, {hall be entitled to and enjoy all j
and si gular the rights, privileges and ad- >
vantages granted to the people of the terri- 1
tory of the United States, north-weft of *
the river Ohio, iu and by the aforefaid or- *
dinaoce of the thirteenth day of July, in !
the year one thousand seven hundred and
eighty seven, in as full and ample a manner t
as the fame are pofTefled and enjoyed by the a
people of the said last mentioned territory. '
Sec. 7. And be it further enaded, That '
from and after the establishment of the a- J
forefaid government, it shall not be lawful ( -
for any person or persons to import or bring j
into the laid Milliflippi territory, from any (
port or place, without the limits of the U- '
nited States, or to cause or procure to be '
so imported or brought, or knowingly to aid '
or aflift in so importing or bringic g any 1
slave or slaves, and that every person so of
fending, and being thereof convidled before ,
any court within the said territory, having 1
competent jurifdi&ion, shall forfeit and pay <
for each and every slave (o imported or 1
brought, the sum of three hundred dollars ; '
one moiety for the use of the United Stater, '
and the other moiety for the use of the per* ,
son or persons who shall sue for the fame ; 1
and that every slave, so imported or brought, 1
shall thereupon become entitled to, and re
. ceive his or her freedom.
See. 8. And be it further enacted, That
the sum of ten thousand dollars be, and
hereby is appointed, for the purpose of ena
bling the President of the United States to
carry into effect the provisions of this aft ;
and that the said sum be paid out of any
monies in the treasury not otherwise appro
priated.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
Approved, April 7, 1798. j
* JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
AN ACT
To continue in force, the ad, intituled " an
ad prohibiting, for a limited time, the expor
tation of arms and ammunition ; and for
) encouraging the importation thereof"
• <j ec j T) Eit enaded by the Senate and
■ JL3 House of Rep> efentatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfem
j bled, T hat the firft, second, third and fourth
. feftions of the aft, intituled "A a aft pro
hibiting for a limited time the exportation
[ of arms and ammunition ; and for encourag
ing the importation thereof," be, and are
: hereby continued in force for one year from
and after the present feflion of Congress,
and from thence to tlie end of the next ses
sion of Co»gref3 thereafter, and no longer.
, Sec. 2. And be it further enaded, That
the fifth feftion of the said aft, except so
: much thereof as relates to the importation
. of sulphur and falt-petre, be, and is hereby
! continued in force for one year from and af
ter the fourteenth day of June next, and
j from thence to the end of the next feflion
of Cougrefs thereafter, and no longer : and
that so much of the said fifth feftion as re-
I lates to the importation of sulphur and fait -
| petre be, and is hereby continued in force
j for one year from and after the fourteenth
j day of June in the year of our Lord one ;
j thousand eight hundred, and from thence
j to the end of the next feflion of Congress
thereafter and no longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON'
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
Approved, April 7, 1708. j
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
AN ACT
To continue in force for a limited time, a part
of an ad, intituled An ad malting further
provision for securing and colleding the du- |
ties onjoreign and dome/lie dijlilled spirits,
fills, wines, and ten."
BE it enaded by the Senate and House of
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress affemblcd, That the
thirteenth feftion of the aft pafled on the
fifth day of June, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-four, and intituled " an aft
making further provision for securing and
collecting the duties on foreign and domestic •
distilled spirits, stills, wines and teas" be,
and the fame hereby is continued in force,
until the end of the firft feflion of the sixth i
Congress.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United Sfates,* 1
and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
Approved, April 7, 1798.J 1
JOHN ADAMS, |
President of the United States. \
AN ACT
For tie relief of the Refugees from the Sriti/h
provinces »f Canada and Nrua-Scttia. I
BE it enaded by the Senate and Htiife of Re
presentatives of tbe Unr.ed States of Ameri- '
ca, in Congress affemblcd, That to fati»fy the '
claims of certain persons claiming lands under 1
the refolutiom of Congress, of the twenty third 1
of Apr 1, one thousand seven hundred and eigh- 1
ty-three, and the thirteenth of April, one thou- j
sand seven hundred and eighty-five, a 9 refugees J
from the Britilh prsvißces of Canada and No
va-Scotia, the Secretary of the Department of J
War, be, and is hereby authorized anddiredled
10 give notice in one or more of the public pa
pers of each of the States of Vermont, Mafia- 1
chufetis,New-York, New-Hamp!hire,and Penn
sylvania, mj all persons having claims under the
said resolutions, to transmit to the war-office, !
within two years after the pafling of this aft, a !
just and true account of their cbims to the boun
ty of Congress.
Sec. i. And be it further enaded, That no '
other person; lhall be entitled to the benefit of
the provisions of this a<sl, tlun those of the sol-
lowing descriptions, or their widows and heirs,
viz.—First—those heads of families, and Gngle j,
persons, aud not members of any fu h families, j
who were refideiits in one of the provinces af«re-
said, prior to the fourth day of July, one thou- v
sand seven hundred and seventy-six, and who a- •-
kaadoned thtir settlements, in consequence rf
their having g/iven aid to the United Colonies or f.
States, in the revolutionary war againli Great- «
riritain, or with intention to give such aid, and
continued in the United Siatcs, or in their fer- j
vire, during the said war, Ind did not return to s
reside in the dominions of the king of Great, y
Britain, prior to the twenty fifth of November, r
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. (
Secondly—the widow s and heirs of all such per- t
sons as were aflual residents, as a'orefaid, who t
abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and i
died within the United States, or in their fer- 0
vii e, during the said war: And thirdly, all ptr t
fo.n who were members of families at the lirae t
of thtir coming into the United States, and who, t
during the war, entered into their fcrvice. g
. Sec. 3. And be it further enaded. That the u
proof of the fevcral circum(lances aeceflary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits f
may be taken before 1 jsdjje of the supreme or' si
diltridl court of tbe United States, or a judge of si
the supreme or fujerior court, or the firft just ice c
•r firft judge of the court of common-pleas or e
county cOLrt of any State. 1 b
Sec. 4 And be it further enaded, That at a
the expiration of fifteen months from and as- o
terthe paflisg cf this a£l, and from time to time l tl
thcicaftcr, it (hall be the duty of the Secretary b
for the Department of War, to lay fn.?h evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
t th* Secretary and Comptroller 0: the Treasury,
, 'and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, and give their judgm-nt what quantity
l " of land ought to be allowed to the individual
0 claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
; rcfpeCtive ferviccs, facrifices and luffunngo, in
y consequence of their attachment to the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class, a quantity not exceeding one thoufanda
cres ; and to the lad class, a quantity not ex
ceeding one hundred, making such intermediate
clafles as the resolutions aforefaid, and diftribu
tivejuftice, may, in their judgment require, and
make report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe
any such claimant lhall have sustained such lofT
ea and fufferifigt, or performed such services for
the United States, that he cannot jufllv be claiT
ed in any one general class, a separate report
(hall be made of his eircumftances, tagether with
the quantity of land that ought to he allowed
him, having reference t> the fore, s ig ritio :
Provided, that in confiJer ng what compenfa
jion ought to l>e made by virtue rf this a>sl, all
grant?, except military grants, which may have
been made by the United Sta'es, or individual
' r States, lhall be considered at the jiid value there
of, at the time the fame were made, refpeilive
d ly, either in whole or in part, as the cafe may
be, a fatisfasion te those who mav have reciv
ed the lame : Provided also, that no cliim un-
d?r this law, {hall be affitrnabie until after report
made to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the
said linds he gi anted to the person entitled to
11 the benefit of this aft.
Sec. 5. te it further enaSed, That al! claims,
e in virtue of the said resolutions of Congress,
, I which dull not be exhibited as aforefaid, >»ith
i 1 the time by this ac!4 limited, (hall foreverthere*
' after be bar-ed.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
' Vice President of the United States
r and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
1 Approved, April 7, 1798. j"
| JOHN ADAMS,'
| President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
| ~
j CON G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, j
SICK AND DISABLED SEAMEN.
Tuesday, April 10.
The bill for the relief of sick and disabled Sea
men (which provides that every Seaman
belonging to the United States, (hall pay
twenty cents a month out of his wages for
the relief of Sailors in didrtfs, and for the
erettion of hospitals) having been read the
third time, and the quedion on palfing being
put,
MR. SEWAI.L said, he was unwilling to
fay any thing againd this bill ; but
i palling of it would be attended with many in
-1 conveniencies and objection's which ought to
jbe mentioned. He allowed the objections
j principally applied to the |>art of the Union
from whence he came, where provision is al
ready made for sick and disabled persons of
every description, sailors as well as others,
with which every person in the community is
charged. Seamen in that quarter, therefore,
now pay their full proportion of money for
public charity ; and if they were again to be
called upon by this ail, they would be made
to pay in two different ways for the fame ob
ject, without any advantage to themselves,
because they are already entitled to relief in
cafe of sickness or disability. But if this was
not the cafe, he doubted the propriety of tax
ing seamen only for the support of what ought
to be considered as a public charity. He
thought the laws of reason and charity called
upon the public at large in- support of unfor
tunate men of this description, and that the
burden ought notpxclufively to be laid upon
them. We have, said he, no common feeling
with these men; the tax will fall upon no
member of this house, but will be exclusively
drawn from the earnings of a small part of the
community, who, in all probability, will re
ceive 110 advantage from it for fifty years to
come, as large and splendid buildings mud fit It
be ereCled, in order to exhibit to the world a
specimen of Public Charity. Nothing of this
kind was to be seen in hi9part of the cquntry ;
but this clals of persons was nevertheless pro
vided for. Neither native or foreigner was
there sick without care and relief being affor
ded him. It was difficult, therefore, to con
ceive upon what rcafonable ground the sea
men of his State could be called upon to con
tribute to a fund of this kind. The only rea
son which had been alligtied was, that the
New England feamea frequently visited the
Southern States, where if they were taken
sick, there was no provision for their relief.
He hoped those States would provide relief
for such unfortunate persons ; if not, sailors
mud go there as they go into Foreign Coun
tries.
Much reliance, Mr. S. fiid, had been laid
on the example of England, where it was said
timilar edablifhroents exilled. But those eda
blidiments were begun by the grants of indi
viduals, and a particular class ot seamen, those
in the Navy, merely contributed to
their current expences—(o that the two cases
were very different. He hoped, therefore, the !
bill would not pass.
Mr. Pinckney wai furry to diffur from j
his friend from Maffuchufetts on this fubjeit.
He had hoped the objections which he had
before dated to the principle of this bill
would, by this time, have been removed.
The gentleman had before dated, that his
principal objection to this bill arose from there
being already provision made in th« Eadern
States for the relief of sick and disabled sea- 1
men. It was then dated in reply, that provi- 1
ded the law did bear a little hard upon that
State, from their known federal disposition, it
was hoped, as it would operate a general be
nefit to the Union, it would not be objected
to. But it was tlrtn (hewn, and he would re- J
peat it, that the law could not bear hard upon
thein. If there is a provision at present made
in Massachusetts for persons of this descripti
on, it mud be a burden upon the people
there ; and if, after the palling of this law,
that burden be removed, it would certainly
be beneficial to the citizens of that State in
general, though it may be a tax upon the sea
men.
The gentleman from Maflachufetts had-alfo
spoken againd the general utility of the mea
sure. He said it was taxing a particular de
scription q/ men for a general ofejeCt : on the
contrary, he thought it only reafonaDle and
equitable that these persons should pay for the
benefit which they were themselves to receive, .
and that it would b« neither just nor fair for i
other persons to pay it. But he believed if a
the subjeCt was farther looked into, it would «
be fouwl that th« seamen would oot p?y the
tax themselves, »3 it would come to be consi
dered as wages, and by that means become a
. 'general tax ,as the Merchant who would have
■ to pay it, would lay it upon his merchandize.
But the gentleman favs, this tax is to beap
! % jpriated to the building of large and fplen
• did Hospitals. As farashe had conlideredthe
bill, he understood that the erection ofhofpi
tals was only a secondary objeit. Relief to
t distress is the firft thing to be attended to, and
■ l ifafter affording this relief, the tax produces
a fufficient surplus, it is to he employed in the
r erection of suitable—not large and splendid—
■ buildings, as hospitals.
I The gentleman had also said that the sea
; men ot the Eastern States must rely upon pro
- visions made for them by the Southern States
r in cafe of licknefs, &c. or if no such provisi
on was made, they mud take the fame chance
t as when they go into foreign countries. This
i observation does not apply, ai the United
1 States have made provision for their (Ick ami
disabled feanien in Foreign Countries by
means of Consuls, which. it is contemplated
I to make more efficient than it has heretofore
: been ; but this is not the cafe in the Southern
| States. Seamen who are lick and disabled
. there, have only to rely upon private charity
. for lupport ; and surely the Eastern States,
, which turnilh at lead th«e fifths of the lea
men of the United States, are interested in
. providing some more certain support for their
t unfortunate citizens. All these circumstances
. considered, he trusted the bill would pals.
> Mr. Livingston said, the objections to
this bill had anfen from two sources ; its ine
( quality as to different parts of the Union, and
t its inequality as to the persons upon whom it
was to operate. On the firft point, he thought
, such fatisfailory answers had been given as
mutt have proved effeftual. He was sorry it
had not had that effect ; but notwithflanding
the pertinacious oppolition which this bill
has received from the gentleman last up, he
doubted not it would pass by a large majority.
T he inequality said to arise in its operation in
different parts of the Union, was owing to
provision having already been made in some
states for the relief of lick and disabled sea
men. But how, he alked, would this provi
iion injure that part of the United States ? Did
not the gentleman fee that the Prelident had
the power to appropriate money for the tem
porary relief of seamen, in the firft instance ?
Of course, he would reimburse to the state of
Maflachufetts, or any other state, anv fumsof
money expended for this purpose. The.pro
vision which the gentleman speaks of as being
made for this description of persons, he sup
posed, was the common town charities,which,
if they were to be reimbursed, the inequality
which had been spoken of, would appear to
be'only imaginary. But if the inequality had
existed, when the gentleman had feenthe ex
treme utility of such a provision in other parts
of the Union, he should have hoped he would
have waved his objection.
In the city which he represented, Mr. L.
said, they had also a provision of this kind.
At Charleston, and, he believed at Philadel
phia, similar support was afforded to persons
of this description. In New-York, there were
generally 300 sick and disabled seamen reliev
ed in the course of a year, and he supposed an
equal number might receive support from the
institutions of the two other cities he had men
tioned. Besides, the persons upon whom this
inequality was stated to fall, ought not to
make any violent objection to it, as they were
fhemfelves in the habit of receiving some small
advantages from the Union, 'which ought to
prevent a murmur at a provision like the pre
sent. They receive, (aid he, 76,000 dollars
annually in bounties on their fifiling veflels,
though the duty pn the fait used in curing
their fifh, which this bounty was given to
countervail, does not amount to more than
30,000 dollars. Indeed, he did not believe the
people themselves would object to the tax in
question. If he knew any thingintlie careless,
honest nature of this class of men, they would
not object to so trifling a sum as 20 cents a
month for so valuable an objeift. A sailor,
said he, is concerned only for the present, and
is incapable of thinking of or inattentive to fu
turewelfare; heis therefore a proper object for
the care of government, and whilst he can
provide an asylum for infirmity or old age,
by the facrifices of a few gills of rum, he will
not scruple to do it.
But it was said this benefit could not accrue
to sailors, for a number of years, as magnifi
cent buildings mult be firft eredted. Surely
the gentleman from Maflachufetts did not at
tend to the provifior.s of this bill, or else he
wilhed to produce a falfe impreflion upon the
committee. Nor was it cultomary for the
gentleman to express his doubts about the
Executive misusing any power placed in his
hands.—Surely he could not suppose that the
Trefident would expend the money raised by
virtue of this act for the relief of distress, in
the ereftion of magnificent buildings. For
his own part, he could not believe any such
thingj; he believed the money would be pro
perly applied, and no more be heard of the
iniferies of this class of men. Andifany sur
plus remained, it would be expended in a
frugal way, so as to conduce to the happiness
and comfort of this class of men, and to the
honour of the nation.
To be bold by Auction, at the Col
fee-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the ill May
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the \
Cuflom-Houfe, payable to William Lave, ,
chir maker, ijo, North Front ftfeet, for ajo ~
dollars, dated the June 1797, due the ad of
Aug. but nfgleisled to be presented or protelted I
bill the 18th August by the Bank of Peniifylva- 5
nia, for which the Bmk will become liable," if a /■
jury independent of Banks can be found. r,
april 13. . »6t I
A Young Man wanted. \
Good encouragement will be given to a young
Man to go into the back country, who under- t
Hands keeping accounts, writes a good hand, »
and who can be well recommended—None >'
other need apply. Enquire at Mr. Fenno't of- "
sice, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet
April 13. diw "
FRESH TEAS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE d
A t hit Circulating Library, No. 7 j North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON,
YOUNG HYSON, ( *
HYSON-SKIN, r r£AS ' 0
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
Ou moderate terms.
Coffee, Chocolate and Loaf Sugar.
•pril 13. mScftf
To be Let, £
(And poffefiion given gn the ifl of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 feet front, a«d 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tablet, at present in the teuure of Major Jack- 0
son. Enquire at 187 South Third flrcct. IV
aprii *. 5
* NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. Francis's Night.
« THIS EVENING, April i 3,
Will be presented, a celebrated Comedy, in five
ads (not performed these three years) caled,
, s The Deserted Daughter.
e by Thomas Holcreft, Author of the
Road to Ruin, &c J
As performing at the Theatre, in Qcrvent, Gar
Jen, London, with uni-verfal approbation.
Mordent, Mr Marshall
s Chevril, Mr Bernard
Lennox, Mr Fox
e Item, Mr Francis
s Grime, Mr Harwood
d Clement, Mr Warrell, jun.
d Donald, Mr Warren,
y Joanna, Mrs. Mar(h all
i Mrs. Sarfnet, Mrs Francis
e Mrs Enfield, Mrs L/Eftrange
n Bettv, Mrs Dottor
i Lady Ann, MrsMerfy.
y End of the Comedy
" DASH ON—KEEP MOVING,"
ANEPILOGUE, in the charatfer of YOUNG
1 RAPID—Mr. Harwood.
r
s After which A MEDLEY PANTOMIME,
consisting of Singing, Dancing, Dialogue,
Spedlailt-, and Foats of Aftrvity, called the
I RIVAL HARLEQUINS ;
t Or, "If two Men ride upon one Ijforfeone
,t rnuft be behind."
s In the course of the Pantomime will be intro
t iluctd a variety of Transfoimation3, and a
r display of Scenery,. particular!)
1 A VIEW OF THE DEL i WARE.
5 \>:d the UNITED STATES' NEW FRIG ATE
. At anchor ; and a dance of Sailors ; with Mo
l loney's Jig—By-Mr Warrel, jun.
a THE FALLING PORTICO,
e THE BOOKCASE TRICK,
.Vith a Comic Dialogue, between two Clowns-
Clowns, Mefirs. BliiTetand Francis,
t THEMAGIC POST, &c.
1 CHARACTERS,
- Harlequin Lightfoot, Mr Warrell, jun.
? (Being his firft apppearance in the charter oj
Harlequin)
t Harlequin Mum, Mr Francis
Pantaloon, Mr Hunter
J Scaramouch, Mr T. Warrell
Magician, Mr Warrell
. Clown, Mr BliflVtt
' Thomafo, With Feats of Adtivity)
1 Mr Dodlor
I Duenna. Mrs Dodtor
Columbine, (with a Song in Charadler)
' Miss Milbourne.
The whole to conclude with
A Picturesque Vie,tv of the Falls of
NIAGARA',
And a display of GROUND AND LOFTY
TUMBLING, with manynew Poflurcs and
Equilibriums—By Sig. Doflor.
He will drink a glass of Wine backwards, in s
surprizing manner, beating a drum at the fame
time, and likewise run up a plank, 15 feet
high, off which he will throw a Sommerfet,
and discharge a Pistol in each hand at the
fame time.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, ami of
Mr. Francis, No. 70, North Eighth street.
Mr. £sf Mrs. Btrne\ Night.
to-morrow Evening, April 14,
Will be presented (by desire) the TRAGEDY of
The EARL OF ESSEX.
Efler, Mr. Fen Dell
Ssuthampton, Marlhall
Burleigh, Warren I
Lieutenant of the Tower, Warrell 1
Rutland, Mrs. Merry
Notingham, Mrs. Francis
Queen Elizabeth, 1 Mrs. Morris
Between the 3d and 4th afls of the Tragedy, a
favorite Ballet Dance (cemfofcd by Mr. Byrne)
called,
THE BOUQUET. i
By Mr. Byrne, Mr. J. Warred, Miss Milbourne, 1
and Mrs. Byrne, &c.
T' which wich wiil be added, a Pantome, naver
performed here (under the direction of Mr.
Byrn called,
The ORIGIN OF HARLEQUIN;
Or, Commencement of Folly.
Harlequin, (for that night only) mr Byrne
Pen, mr Dodfor—Pantaloon, mr Lavancy Beau,
mr J Warrell—King of the GypCes.mr Warren
and Columbipe.mrs feyrne.
Faith, mrs Warrell—Hope, mrs Francis—Cha
rity, mrs Hardinge—Ju/lice, mrs Morris Mercy,
mrs Oldm xon—Temperance, miss L'Eftrange
Hymen, master Byrne.
In the course of the Pantomime Mr Byrne
will Fly from the back of the Gallery to
the further e«d of the Stage.
Afh a rt description ofpart of the Scenery and
Plot nf the Pantomime.
FirJl Scene. A Barn—Gypfics (rlory or plenty f.om
tb,ev,ng, a Monkey and old rag,, the cmp,f,ti„ of Har
lequin, wbofe le^s' 'rmt, bead, and body jumb out of a
boiling pot, and-when put tocether, ( U Strange J will
run, jump, fnk, swim, and Jly through the whole panto
mime.
id Scene. Pantaloon, boufc—Folly and Fafhior. in
love—mjl Money carrie, the day—which oblige, Harle
quin t, change the Scene to a GRAND SALOOK and
bimfelf into OLD SCRATCH, play, the fiddle and
merry truh at the Wedding ; at la/l run, away with the
Bride imer a Mnntaneou, Country on Horfrback—purfv
ed by Pa,.laUn, Clown, Pero, Beau being flung from
bi, borfe, putt an end to the chafe.
Btb Scent. Confujton at Dinner, the Company in Pit.
He, Harlequin , flight through the ro*f of the House, and
over a Cburcb Steeple , but at la/l be', hampered and creep,
into a bottle : tarn, bimfelf into a Stotue and perform, ma
ny attitudes as a GLADIATOR.
In the 12th Scene Harlequin will Jbeiv us rubit we
mujl all come to.
I }ti Scene. To be avoided, «or Gtod may come from
evil,'' —" 'tis IVOman that seduce, all Mankind."
Scene,
The Cave of Vice,
Columbine furroundedby all the Vices—isin great
danget, but Heaves pjopitious to her prayers chan
ges thi* loathsome Dcu to
Ihc Temple of Virtue,
Where Fai h, Hope, Charity, and the reft of the
Virtues, with their attributes ftandarrayed in robes
of white, with the Nupt.als of
Harlequin & Columbine,
Attmi'A by Htmin and th« Guccis.
The whole to conclude by half pad 10 o'clock.
tT to hu« at the usual places, and ef
Mr. and Mrs.Byrne, corner of Second and Dock
Streets.
r.T*,*i* " oa,U 7 the f iTor 'te Comedy of th»
rL ? SI R.ATAGEM, and the Muficil farce
of the HIGHLAND REEL—for the Benefit of Mr.
Mak'hail.
Jtf Mr. War*«n's Night on Wedncfday next.By Mail.
NEW-YORIC, April n. C
Extra.6l of a letter from a 'gentleman at Fal- p
mouth, to hij friend in this city, datetl Fe-
• bruary I 3, 1798- . t
"We are ail very buly in getting ready to as
oppoft th« French, who are undoubtedly pre- w
paring to invade us—-the whole of this country pi
11 in arms—we are all soldiers—-I am myfelf an
cnftgn inia corps Under the name of Falmouth j_;
Independent Volunteers —we cloathe and-arm .
•ourselves, and feive without pay ; ther* are "
great numbers of companies formed on the fame * r
plan. Should the French come, they will meet fe
quite a different reception from what they may fy
expcdl. This nation seems now to be more ; r
united than ever ; every man now takes his p
PURSE in one hand, and the SWORD mthe e|
other ; and the voluntary contributions are so 1
numerous and f» Urge, that there is no doubt | P
but that the a& of parliament lately palled for j I
escreafiiij; the iffeffed taxee, will be rendered t]
null by the fubferiptions exceeding the money ei
wanted to enjfrle us to repel the ess its of our
enemies. One mercantile hnufe in Mancbefter
fubferibed 3 ?,oocl.theßankof Fngland 200,000!.
the officers and crews of one of our frigates hue
fubferibed 2,00c1. &c. Indetd our failor 3 and p
ffildiers fubferibe most liberally, and accompany '
their donations with letters highly exprefiiveof , h
their generosity and loyalty, she Lord Mayor | j
of London opened a meeting'for receiving sub- 1 j
feriptions, a. 1 in a few hours 4°i.5351. js 6d. j
'vas fubferibed !iy 11S ptrfons It is impoflible ;
for me to deici ibe to y»u tlie enthufial n of the
people on this nccafion ; and, instead of defpond-.
ing looks, the features are brightened up, and ,
seem to he expressive of a wiih, rather than a
dread, to fee the enemy. For my own part, ray i (
friend, I cannot lay I have a wiih to fee them ; 1
for, )lthoit{.'h I am pc»fuaded in my own mind
that their attempts will be frustrated, yet by
their coming, rrinv lives miift unavoidably he '
loft, and a freat deal of other mifeliief done, t
However, firmly trusting that Providence wili f
order every thing right, I make imyielf ealy, t
and neither wi(h to fee the enemy, no- dread , j
their coming. This little town furnifiies up -! (
wards of 1000 in arms, who are in general per- . j
fww of property. If it is my fate to fall in i
battle, do not believe, until you are well afftir- j 1
ed of it, that thi Ihot entered mj; back." <
It appears by the papers, tjiat there are in
England, 23.00 ft French prisoners, and only ;
4000 EitglifK prisoners in France. ,
The kiig of Prufili has agreed to the ceflion
of his polTeflions on the ieit batik of the Rhine
to France. '
The French government is seriously employ- 1
ed in preparng for the. defeent on Ent?la«d — 1
the*e have been lent provisionally to the confts (
of the channel and the ocean, 40 deini-brigades
of infantry,3 4 regiirrents of cavalry, 2 do. of foot j
artillery, 2of horse do- 4 companies of artificers, ,
4 do. of pioneers, 2 battalions of Jminers, 2
corps of pontoon men, all commanded by 18 ge
nerals of division, 47 generals of brigade, and
as adjutant-generals ; among which are Ber
thier, Xilmaine, Marefcot, Kleber, Champion
et, Maffcrta, Serrurier, Vkflor, Lafne, Vieux,
Van.lome, Nicheporte, Ney, and ad. general
Heudelit —all the fliwer of the rfrmies.
Kleber has the command of the right w'ng of
the army of England, which is to stretch from
Calais to the North of the Scheldt. A corps
of French and Bjtavians is likewise to aff.-rabfe
at Flulhing.
• EDINBURGH, Jan. 28.
Oh the 6th inft. we mentioned tha* a few
American (Indents at Edinburgh, had fubferib
ed 2J g iiiteas for the use of the French prison
ers tn the castle. When the money was tranf
mitttd to them, it was accompanied with the
followingjelter :
To th: prisoners of war in the Caftie of Edin
burgh.
CITIZENS,
The Americans of the University of Edin
bu-gli Had no sooner heard of your misfortuaes,
thin they pitied you; they had no sooner heard
of your wants, than tluy refolvtd to attempt
the alleviation of t-heni-
Bom in a peaceful (and, where the sword has
been converted into the plougnfhare, unaccus
tomed to th»fe ftenes which have been so often
exhibited throughout Europe, their feelings
mud be accute when they he- old the miserable
Condition to which mmy of their fellow crea
tures are reduced by the fate ot'war.
We sympathize with you in your fufferings ;
we fvmoat'nize with all those who are Condemn
ed, riot only to the loss of the gift of nature, their
■liberties, but whose captivity mud be embitter
ed by the policy of natims.
We regret that our situation in a foreign
country, rendered critical by the unhappy dis
turbances which exifl through Europe, prevents
our dil'playing that lihcrality towards you,which
we ihrt'ild olherwife do.
We ardently hope that the small sum our fi
nances has allowed 03 to contribute, will afford
* temporary relief to your immediate wants.
Accept of it, then, and eftccm it as the gi f t
of men who have hearts to feel, and whose v iftt
it will ever be, to relieve the diftrsffes of the#
fellow-creatures.
In this manner we think it incumbent on our
selves to inforip you, and publicly to declare,
tha: the condufl of the gentlemen whom we j
nectffarily consult as to the distribution of this
lubfmption, defer»e3 your thanks and ours, for
the liberality of sentiment they have displayed,
and th.4 ready compliance they gave to our per
forming a duty of humanity.
We sincerely with that a speedy termination
of the war vyhich has existed for several years
in Europe, may rellore you and all who are
placed in a similar situation, to the enjoyment
ofliberty.
And we look forward with pleasure, to the
happy moment when agriculture and commerce
will again aflame their fupcriority, and the din
of war he no more heard.
• Signed by a few American ffudents at the
University of Edinburgh.
ANSWER.
Gentlemen,
The French prisoners are penetrated with
th« mod lively gratitude for ycu. beneficence.
What pleasure does it afford thera to find men
humane and generous enough to take part in
their misfortune* 1 ....
O ! that I could express the lively sensations
wl.ii h your benevolence has excited among
the r e unfortunate viflims of the fate of war.—
They all 10. k up to you as to a father since you
have in « manner reflored them to life. The ir
grjtitude will be without hounds. They will
live in .future on'ly to learn from yourcximple
theh»rt>inefs and sweet fatiafaftion which those
exp'nerce who relieve the dillrefTes of foffcring
humanity. Receive this tellimony of our full
acknowledgment. It is so lively, that our (acui
ties are Mt able to express to you all we feci.
We have the honor to be, with lefpeiH, the
French priftners of war in 'he Caille of Edin
burgh. V PKEBiON, Surgeon.
PARIS, (3 Pluviofe) January 22.
J?. Cabarrus, arribalfador from Spain,
will not be d by the Diiciftory in j a
that capacity. Some fay this rcfufal has p
been concerted with the Court of Spain, or ' fe
approved by ir. Others obfetvc that M. !
Cabarrus was born in France, and that if ,f«
Frenchm?n become foreigners by naturali- J vi
zation, were admitted to represent in France j c;
as diplomatic agents, it might happen that j t(
we would fee at Pin's, Emigrants, Pleni- I fa
poterftiaries, Ministers, Consuls, &c.
The alarms entertained by the city of tl
Hamburgh, had been rapidly diffufed over p
all the north of Germany. It appear? that |rr
they were destitute of foundation. It is as- a
ferted, that the Diredtory returned for an- o
fsver to the Pruffiin minister. on his demand- g
ing an explanation on this fubje<Ft, that the el
French government would never violate its a
cngag/itieuts, and that they were jll illy fur- e
prized at a supposition almolt inlulting.— f;
The Prince of Brunfwick, commander of si
the Prussian army in Weftphalla, has return- p
ed to his own ftates.—B\en Inforivc. /
n
4 Pluviofe, Jan. 23. ii
The corvette, the Volant, which carried
out the deputies to Cayenne has returned.
The persons transported arc all in good o
j health, and the corvette, in tht way heme, t
, took an Englilh vessel. It is not true that a
I Barthelemy is dead.—RedaSeur.
\ Citizen Joseph Buonaparte, ambaflador
! of the Republic to Rome, has arrived at •
Paris. ji
As the Dutch, after the lapse of thh:e d
years, have not been able to agree upon a g
| Constitution, it is said that one has been I
drawn up at Patis calculated to reconcile t
the views of the different parties, to secure f
the independence and prosperity of the Ba
tavian republic, and to give it a firm and
energetic government capable of rendering
their alliance ufcfulto us. This plan, it is
■ said, is to be presented to the commit tee
los the constitution of the Bitavian alTem- ]
| bly,wtth an invitation to take it as it is,or to
j make it the bafts of their plan. Danouand
Chenier were its principal authors.
M. Ochs, Envoy from Bailc to Paris has
addrefled to his conftitusnjs a letter which
will form an epoch in the annals of Swit
zerland. In giving them for the last time
the title of Magnificent and Gracious lords,
he invites them to declare that their autho
rity is at an end and for his part he renoun
ces all hereditary privileges. He concludes
with these words. ' The more lam hated
by arillocracy, the more I esteem myfelf.'
The inhabitants of the canton of Bade, on
their part, claim liberty as a right which
they hold from God and Natute. " The
Bible and Reason teach us, fay they, " that
all people have a right to form laws for
themselves, and to choose their own magis
trate- —none but those whom we have e
• lefted can govern us by the grace of God."
January 24.
The preparations at Toulon, Brest, Dun
kirk, and other ports in building and repair
ing vefTels of different kinds, are carried on
with so much aftivity as may prove to our
enemies that the plan of an invasion is not
. a vain threat. General Brune, appointed
ambassador to Naples,has not accepted that
: million. He will commend thefirit division
of the a.imy of England. A report has
been circulated here, that the Pope by ad
vice of the sacred college, has resigned to
the King of Naples all his temporal autho
rity, under an idea, that by these means he
j can avoid the threatened hostilities, and pre
. vent the dcplacement of his divine power.
This report however, needs confirmation.—
s It appears by the melTage of the Cisalpine
■ Republic, that the army of the new Re
-1 public amounts to 2000 men.
» . _
14 Pluviofe, February 2.
The of Bilhops at Paris hnve
; publiP«ed a pastoral letter, exhorting the
- Catholics to contribute towards 'he expen
r ce-sof the defccnt upon England.
A counicr from Italy brings the intelli
n gence from gen. Berthicr, dated Macerata
- only 28 leagues from Rome. The Cisalpine
I troopß were farther advanced, and arc at
the difiofal of the French Republic, and
commanded by the companions of Buona
d" P arte -
From Milan, gen. Berthier has written
' the following letter to the generals com-
manding the divisions of the army of Italy
returning to France :
r . " GENERALS,
" The divisions which you command are
■e proceeding to France, deftitied toast against
13 England. Tell the soldiers under your or
" ders that they have gained the admiration
' of the universe as well for their military ex
ploits as for their ardeut patriotism. In
,n form them that, there yet remains for them
rs to atchieve the highefl pitch of admiration,
re that of meriting the ditlin&ion to be made
II between the foldicr who combats for liberty
and him who fights to serve the interests of
, e a mailer.
| n The central adminiflration of jhe depart
ment of the Seine at Paris, published on
ie the 3d of February with the greatest folcm
nity, in all the ftree<6 of the commune, the
proclamation rcfpedling the loan of 80 mil
lions for the expedition against England.—
1,1 The members of the department, with those
f' of the different municipalities, justices of
j n the peace, &c. clad in tri-coloured robes,
formed a numerous and august procefiion.
ns The etats-majors and different corps of
ig troops on foot, as well as on borfeback. el
- corted them ; and a black standard of im
mense fixe, borne by mariners drtffed in
j'll black, presented this infetiption in black
j c letters—" Defccnt upon England 1" A
,fe band of music, by ftrikiug up patriotic airs
ng inflamed the general enthusiasm, and the u
"II niverfal cry was—" Live the republic ! and
mnj England perish."
LONDON, February 10.
Letters from Copenhagen, of the ijth
ult. mention the warlike preparations which
were carrying on by the court of Denmark,
n, The object of them is stated to be the form
ation of a cordon on the Elbe, in -order to n
prefervc the neutrality of the D<«»ifh pof- J'
feflions in Germany. • ii
Letters from Hamburgh fay, that Mis- b
fel mechanist to the court ofßuflia, has in- h
vented a machine tp. go without korfes. It p
can be wound up to any pace, from a walk d
to a gallop. It is so made as to turn with
facility, and flop at the will ef the driver.
It is with great fatisfaftion wc witn«fs
the geueral etithufiafm which now seems t >
prevail in every part of the country, and a
mong all descriptions of persons, both civil £
and military, to come forward in support j
of the state at the present crifls- This p
generous spirit has already had the j
eflect of railing the funds near 1 per cent, g
and certainly if the fubferiptions are carri- j
ed to any great extetit, they will very much /
facilitate Mr. Pitt's plan of finance for'rai
ling, the remainder or the supplies for the
present year on good terms for the public.
Accordingly, the loaa is put o!F till the
next month ; and the sum to be raised by it
is uncertain.
The following letter from the honest tars j
on board the Argonaut, deserves notice for
the downright and manly spirit it exhibits
againfl the enemies of old England :
Argonaut, Jan. 31. f
SIR, _ t
■ " We the seamen and marines of his ma
jelly's (hip Argonaut, under your command,
desire to give 10s each nun out of our wa
ges, to drive before us into the sea all
French fconndrels, and other blackguards
that would take their parts. We are your j
faithful servants,
" John Mitchel, boatswains' mate, !
for felt and ships company.
'• Alexander Hean, l'ergeant, for '
felf and party.
,• God five th; King.
; Lieut. P. Hue, commanding
his majesty's (hip Argonaut."
—■ win 111 I—!■ ■main «>ri-r« 1 ' 1
Xfte <s\wttz.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, April 13.
At a numerous and refpe&able meeting of j
of citizens of the city of Philadelphia,
diftrift of Southwark and Northern Li
berties, held at Dunwoouy's tavern on
the evening of the 12th April, 1798,
Colonel Gurney in the chair,
It wa3 Resolved jmanimoufly, As the
sense of this meeting, that the information
contained in the Dispatches from the En
voys Extraordinary from the United Spates
at Paris, to the Secretary of State, as <. f a
nature to excite universal alarm throughout
Ameri'a, and to call for the unanimous and
energetic support of the people in aid of
'H? government of the United States,
Resolved unanimously, That the measures
pursued by the President 0/ the United
States to restore haemony between the Uni
ted States and the Republic of France and
to establish a permanent and good under
flanding between the two nations, as the
fame are (pecified in the iuftru&ions to the
Envoys Extraordinary, have been wife,
just, liberal ariij sincere ; and entitle him to
; | the gratefulacknowledgmentsofhiscoujitry.
Resolved unanimsufly, That an Address
and Memorial expreflive of-the sentiments
contained ;n theforegoingrefolutions bf> pre
pared, to be signed" by the Citizens of the
City and County ef Philadelphia, and to
be presented to the President, the Senate,
and the Houfft of of the
United States,
Resolved, That the following gentlemen
1 be 3 committee to prepare the address and
_ j that they report the fame as soon as prepa
red to this meeting.—•viz,
Joseph Thomas, Andrew Bayard, Samuel
" Wheeler, Jolhua Humphreys. Henry Pratt,
1 Levi Hollingfworth, and Joseph North.
■ The committee retired accordingly and
after some time returned with the form of
1 an address which was read and unanimously
" agreed to. Another committee were ap
poiuted to circulate the fame for the figna
-1 tures of the citizens.
f The meeting at Dunwoody's lafl evening
was large and relpeftable—citizens of ai
med eve y profefllcn attended ; the business
e was conducted with the utmost harmony.—
I But one sentiment appeared to animate eve
-ry mind—a firm resolution to rally round
a the government, and to support tjie confli
- tuted authorities in every measure proposed
- for the proteftion and defence of the rights
1 and independence of the United Stjtes.
, Many were present, who have heretofore
e greatly differed in political opinisns.
y Upon this important occalion, laying a
s fide all local politics and party views, they
came forward and joined in the unanimous
- vote.
i May Americans ever thus rally round
- their own llaudard when their cyuntry calls,
e
By the latest accounts we learn the
- American Envoys c/traordinary had not
e left France on the third of February—and
f 1 that affairs remained at that period-in ftatu
1, quo.
1. Our French patriots will not surely
if charge our government with precipitancy
1- and want of patience.
n Yesterday the House of Reprefenta'ives
k of the United States went into a Commit-
tee of the whole on the State of the Union,
•s and took under confideratiou the-ref lation
1- "prdpofing additional companies of ar
d tillerifts and engineers ; when, alter a debate
of some length, an amendment was agreed
to, to strike out the word companies, and
to infeit a regiment, 5$ members' bti. g in
h favor of it. The resolution was tien agrt ed
h to as amended, 61 members voting for it.
c. The resolution reported at the fame time;
i- I tor the purchase of cajiniin, arms and am
munition was next taken up ; but owing to 1
fume iiiiotmation wliich had been called for si
from the proper, department, not having v
been received (which'came in before the j
honfe adjourned) the committee rofc, re- !;
ported the rcf >iutH»n agreed to and a bill was
dire£led to be reported accordingly. J
/t a marling of the incorporated humane foci- ?'
ety, yfj>ril 4., 1798, the following gentle
men zuere-eleiied Managers for the ensuing r
year, viz.
Caspar Wiflar Charles Marshall
Benjamin Say Jacob Shoemaker
Robert Pariill Thomas Greeves j
Joseph Lownes William Yonftg
Samuel Ij'ancoaft, jun. Robert Coe
Joseph Crukfliank Isaac Snuwd.'n, jun. t
And at a meeting of the Managers, Apnl 11
I 79S the following officers were chosen : 1
Prelident—-Benjamin Say
Inlpectors—Samuel PtAcnaft, juo,
Robert Coe
Secretary—Charles Marshall. I
Treafurar—Chriftopher Marshall. e
_ ! 1.
Extract of a letter from a mercantile House in h
London to his friend in this city, dated, J<
Feb, yh, I ■ t
" New inllru&ions having been jud ifTu-.'i
ed to his majHtv's fliipa and to
which are iuttvefting to you as neutrals, wc
take leave to subjoin you a copy of the heads <
<jf them for ydnr information. M
" 1 ft, Tliat they fhuli bring in for adju- |.
dication all vessels, with their cargoes, that j ]
are laden with goods, the produce of any j
ifl.'.nd cr fettlemert belonging to Francr, 1
Spain, or the United Provinces, and com- : ;
ing direftty from any port of the said illands
or settlements, to any part in Europe, not ' ;
being a port of this kingdom, nor a port of
that country, to which such (hips, being
neutral (hips, shall belong.
" 2d. That they shall bring in for lawful
adjudication all ships, with their cargoes,
that are laden with goods, tl>e produce of
the said islands or settlements, the property 1
of which goods fliall belong to fubjc&s of
France, Spain, or the* United Provinces, to
whatsoever parts the fame may belong.
" 3d. That they fnall seize all ships that
shall be found attempting to eater any port
of the said islands or settlements, that is, or
j shall be blockaded by the arms of his majes
ty, and fnall fend them in with their cargoes
I for adjudication, according to the terms of
the second article of the former inftrudlions
bearing date the Bth day of Tune 1793.
" 4th. That they shall seize all vefTels
laden wholly or in part with naval or milita
ry stores, bound to any port of the said isl
ands or settlements, and shall fend them into
some convenient port belonging to his majes
ty, in order that they, together with their
cargoes, may be proceeded against accord
ing to the the rules of the law of nations."
No. L ■
MR. r;ENNO,
. I propose to commit my thoughts on the
state of the warfare jinhappily fubflfting at
present between France and America, to
writing : Jf you have no objediion to intro
duce them to public animadversion, I {hall
be obliged for your af!iflance in advancing
my design, which is, to convince (if pofii
ble) the oppofers of my sentiments of the
1 fallacy of their own. Six months ago, my
prejudices were so rooted in favor of France,
that the events of the time could work no
s amelioration in my tenets ; the fubfequeant
. exposition of the views of that government
: however, have operated a complete conviace
> merit of my error, and a dereliction of my
, partiality. An acknowledgment of this
: fa£i, may perhaps, add to the obligation of
my former colleagues in politics, to liflen to
i the truth: which (as your correspondent
1 Eugenius observes) •' will strike conviflior.
- to the king or the peasant" I will add, that
both the lovers of order, and the provokers
1 of anarchy, discover, 'hough the former 011-
, ly, will acknowledge the perception of it.
Without condsmn : ng the sentiments, I
1 have held it is enough that I now grant the
f abfurditv and criminality there would be in
f continuing to profefs and exprels them. I
. would recommend candor, to thofc, who
. like me, have held French principles, be
fore they wade in wickedaefs so far, " as to
return, were tedious as go o'er," for there
r are some of my quondam friends, who are
- determined to prosecute their do&rine, to
s the annihilation of conscience. Not for
- these, but for such as are disposed to attend
- to reason, are my fublequent observations
J designed.
The conduft of France towardsthis coun
i try, has undergone a great transformation ;
s the original oltenfible excuse seems to be,
that by our treaty with Great Britain, we
e have ndt fufficiently maintained our indepen
dence : and t»at we have ftipula'.ed for the
performance of articles, that are inimical to
y the irtterelt, and repugnant to our former
s eompaS with them.
It is not my intention to traverse the beat
-1 en trafl of argument on the treaty with the
i. the former, but permit me'to observe, that,
as fa the predication, that we have rtlin
e quifhed any ; part of our independence,-it
it cannot avail them, luppoling it to be true ;
d since no Ration has a right to complain of
u any treaty, which does not affeft her: If
we had yielded our rights; degraded our
y honor ; if wc had borne with indifference
y the aggrefiions of the English, .and made
no application for rearefs: if our njinifler
had been treated ignominioufly by Britain,
:s ! and we were paflive, the French would have
t- no right to interfere.-
1, In refpeft to the next general objection,
n namely, that by the treaty we have injured
r- them, it would be a good one, if founded
e in fad, for " a nation in fulfilling what it
d owjs to itfelf, is not permitted to forget its
d duties to otbfrs." JBttt let the advocates
n . for this plea, peruse the inflrumeM itfc'.'f,
:d arti le 2Jth, " nothing in this treaty con
t. uined fnall, however, fie construed or ope
-I *, rate contrary to former a id-existing pubbc
1-, treaties with other lovtreigr.s or ftaies." I
J- V 7
hope no-man that att-rds to this, vrili two,
k4*\ ■ imfelf tn be a djfcipie of HuJilfij,
• who fays that any out;
" Coirvjiicfd his win.
•' Is of the fame opinion ilil." t
The correfpcKitJcncc of .our two ml'iider*
Jiiy <\pd, Mpnroe, which 17135' be lie 11 irr
Scipio's invert/nation of the c.«ndiuft of lie
condufV of the latter (Nr>. 7.) will 'gri.v.ly
illuminate the f»' j jt?£t, Ye malcontents c>f
America, divert thd corrupt cory.fe of your
present political employment, tp the exam
ination of this mod excellent tyooki
ARfS-TIPES.
MARRIED— I Oa Wedpefday evening
last, by the Rev. Morgan j. Rheea, Mr.
1. hotnas W. Ultick, fun of the Rev. Dr.
Ul\ick, to Miss Hannah Taylor, both of
this city.
Extract of a letter dated on hmyjtbe Jhif Cha- -
lottc (from Guadaloupufar New-Turk) ojf'
the Capes of Delaware t, Atir'tl 2.
" We arrived here after a fine patTi?v ot
13 days; nothing paftjfcVilit Saprtned us,
except a French privatee/ firing three Vol
lies of mufquetry into 11s. The (hipfigou
has, been taken by a Fretch privateer, reta
ken by a Briti/h frigat/, and carried into
Antijjua.
i PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
AWTVED . days
Shin Elizabeth, Ifaftey, Bitavia- :'2 j
Hope, VounlrhufbantJ, St. John'-i jo
i - Superior, Pojli'ard, New-' ork 4
i Brig Bee. Hanfo.i. ~ Bonrikaox 70
| Pegasus, Nel-bold, Bermuda 7
! Enterprize, Jv'orris, . Jaifraica 19
Schr. Fancy, Painter, Ncw-Prov>d«mcc 14
John, Daggef, '
Sloop Ne.wfci ge, Mv.ble, do, 17
• Caroline, —■— l—, New-York 10
Mary, M'Hommediou, do. 11
Zoar, Crane, do. 4.
Dolphin, Hall, do. 6
Lively, Pcafe, Nantucket 7
The Phoenix, capt. Grice left at Am
| the brig Fair Hebe, Eldridjje, ar.d
brig Clarifla, Brewtou, of this port, to foil
for Bolton in four weeks.
The brig Amiable Creole, capt- Story,
failed from Rotterdam for this port the lat
ter end of January.
Capt. Gri'ce, on the 3d of April, spoke
the brig Sally, capt. Jenkins,*of Boftor,
out 7 day! from Savannah for Cowes, then
in lat. 40, long. 59.
Brig Orlando, from Boflon. is below,
Schr. William and Joseph, Rhodes, from
Boston to this port, has put Into Newport.
Brig JefFerfon, Morris, and fchr. Experi
ment, Maxwell, from hence, are arrived at
St. Croix.
A vefiel three days from the C»pes of
Delaware, saw, on the firrt of March, the
wreck of the copper-bottomed fchif. Ifaoel
la, of this port, with her mails, fp»rs, fails
&c. floating along fide, and no on
board.
Captain Langdon left at Itingftdrn, the
loth (lit. the brig Porga, capt. Well, off
and for this port to fail in three days.
1 The Bremen brig Christian, capt. Pop
pin, from hence to Bremen, taken by the
' French and sent into Paknbol, has been li
' berated and lince arrived at Hainburgh dif
marted. t
: The brig Lavinia, capt. Cadi it, of this
port, has arrived at Hamburgh f/qm Balti
. more.
1 The (hip E:iterpi ize, capt. Nun is, from
[ hence to Hamburgh, has put into Dover.
1 'The Britifli Packet Princess Charlotte,2 3
- days from New-York, arrived at Falmouth
' the 29th of January last.
s The'fhip Draper, Mark Collins, mader,
f bound from New-York to Dublin, was, 011
5 the 15th of Jauuary, about 90 leagues
1 of Cape Clear, captured by a French pri
-1 vatcer. of 22 nine pounders, and 23ft men.
I They took al! theJDraper's crew, except
5 the mate, and put them on board the pri•
* vateer, plundered the cabin of all its furni
ture and 11 ores, robbed the captain and
crew of mod of their cloath?, and ordered
e the Draper for N ant z : five days after? ardj
II (he was re-captured by the Nymph frigate,
I and sent into Plymouth. While the l)ra
-0 per was in poficlSon of the French, there
was a gale of wind, which carried away
0 her caboose, boat 6, and every thing' that
f was on deck, and the French rafcala fuffer
e ed her fails t« blow to shatters from the
0 yards, fo r want of being furl'd. When (he
r got into Plymouth there was three feet wa
d tev in her hold. On the 23d of Jan. the
lS Melampus frigate captured the above men
tioned privaateer, and towed her into Ply
'• mooth where they restored capt. Collins and
! his crew to the Draper.
' > Mill IH—ll
BALTLVIQRE, April 10.
i_ A fire brokeVut this morning between
e thehoursof three and fctir, ne;;r t c Cen
-0 tre market, in the house occupied
:r hy Mr. Mirande. It had made firch j;ro
grefj before it was iifcovered, that Mr. Mi
rande ra considerably burnt, and whhdif
e ficulty efcayed from the flames. Fortunate.
ly the riiorning was dill and calm, or the
>- dellruflive element tnufl otherwise have
II fpreaa devastation far and wide, and b-.fflcd
» ; all human (kill and efforts to check its im
'f pctuons ei urfc. By the well direfled exer
■f tions of the fire-ccmpanies and other iciti
r Tens, three houf'-s onlv fnltair.cd nir.teri?:
e injury. Among (I the fufuTcrs, Mv. Stir
e ling is thegrea'eft, though Mr. Mirande
• r mi.ft ftel his Ws the moll *s w.
» ; underlland he wat ab'e to fa.c mofi
e than the (hirt on hia back—every article «
liis (lore was laid in aT.ies. Mr. Towifen *,
i> who, with his wife, wr.s abfeat from horn.,
d 101 l his front house—but a'molt all his flcr.
d ! and houfnold goods were saved.
it j This nnfortanate affair, from the be'}
s j ins itnatien wc can c lleft, cotomenced i«»
■s ! the chamber of Mr. Mirande, who fell
f, | deep and left the candle burning.* To t:
1- jrniany other numerous inUar.cjs, what
:- powerful one is thu, of the improprie",
c an<l danger arising f.om this pradlice !
1 Who, after this, can attempt it 1TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30ih. 1798.
Public Notice it hereby given,
THA I' by an *£l of Congrcfs pafled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
a ter.tivns and amendments have been made to
tae passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled •' Ail a <sl laying duties on ftaraped vel
" lum, parchment and paper.
The (tamp dutit» on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are rvpeaded.
A discount it the rate of seven and one half
prr Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeelors refpe<£>ively, to any persons other
than Officers of cLe Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be flamped, any
qutptitiea of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the dutiet (hall amount to Ten Dol
krs or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge Br expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for ftimpe<l Parclimeut or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each ikin of Parch
ment, ir Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of medium (we, which may be furnilh
ed at tht expense of tl:e United States and pro
portionally for any lelT r quantity.
Given under my hynd, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir nhnveMfntioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r J""H Al'propoUls willb# reciiveA at theOfficeof
X the Secretary of the Trekfury until the txpi
ration of the l?th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firll day of
Oiftober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftri.3 hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Frefque lfle; at Michilimackinaq ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittfbir. h ; at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; at Picque Town and
Lcramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Foft Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabalh; at Mafiac; at any
place or places on thecal! fideof the River Miflil
iippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
till fide of the Miffcffippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the fouthirn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, atjd within the said Stnt* ; at
Knoxvillc, Tel'.ico Block House, and at all other
Pods in the State of 1 enneffee ; at any place or
p'lact-s on the east fide of the River Mifliflippi, be
low the fouthirn boundary of the State of I'ennef
fee, to thefoutherii boundary of the United States.
If supplies fliall be required for any polls or
places not Mentioned in this notice.all such supplies
fliall he fumilhed at prices proportioned to those to
the poils-Jiefore recited, a«may be agret«J on be
tween the United States and th« contraiflor.
The Yations to be supplied to consist of th« fol
lowing articles, viz.
On.! pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Haif a jill 01 rum, brandy or wbirf-"^
kf, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hu nd r sd
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, f rat i ons
ore pound of candles )
The rat ions are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
«s th.'t - J err {ball at all times during the said term,
Be fhfficisnt frr the tonlcmption of the troops at
Mir'niiim&ckinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix mor.ths in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at leall three
motith-ii* advance, in good and wholesome provi
lions, if the fame (hail be required. It is t» be un
<lerilood, that the contrsflor is to be at the-ex
pence and rift of issuing th* fuppliesto the troops
attach poll, and that all losses feiUined !>y the de
preda'ions of ail enemy, or by means ol the
troops of the United States, ftfcdlbe paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcllroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
ble charafters, and the certificate of a commifiion
ed officer, ascertaining the circuretlances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for whioh com
penfacion (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhed under the propefed contrail, fiiall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contta(sl"now in free have
been consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
my.rch 27. ly.
Law Book Siore,
No. 319, High-dreet.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the fators ihewrrhim in his
efforts toeftablifti a Store for the sale of Law
Book*, only, beg* leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his collection now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the pojOTcflten of any one person for file in Ameri
ca, he expv'<Ss daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly Irom the lattei place,
havingchiefly confined his importations to those edi
tions, as being in his opinion equally correal with
the London opiea, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
G. D limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Book), it will appear obvious to pfofefiional gen
tlemen the prtat advartagesthey havein purchasing
from him, both as to feie&ion and price, of which
the encouragement he has received for several years
paftj is the bed tekimony he can offer.
irarchao. 3aw3w
New Publication.
A Senjibte, Seafonal/e and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ? .
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Pages for Americans,
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Comer ot Chefnut and Second streets,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut fir.
(Price three Jixteentbs of a dollar)
£xtra&. from the above,
y *' It is afonijbing to bear the expencc of tvtr so often
urged, anil by ivetl n> caning people too, againfl our idling
any mcafurti of felf-preftrvation —Jbalt we be
betavfe %ve will not incur the expente of defence. For my
o-wh part, if it /j neeejfary 1 Jboutd give one half of all
J bane to five tbe other, / Jball not bfttutc to do fo—~lf
more u requiftte more Jbalt be given ; and if finally, 1
tr.ttfl give up all to prefervi my lije and liberty, all Jball be
freeiy gitftn. c ibe true wealth tf a nation conjijis in its
independente and fecurity t and not in accumulating gold to.
lie in vfcltft beafn. or enrtcb tbe triumph oj a savage con
quer r—At a time tt'len baf the •wtrld it racked in dire
touvu ftont, when immense countries are dcfolatedandpovu
irfui nations extirpated if ive tfcape with CXpencc only,
%ve may deem uurftlvis very fortunuti
apnl J dtj
A House r*nl Lo{ in Dover.
FOR SALH,
A LOT OF GROUND, situate on th# east fide
of the main street, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for'y yards below Captain
Furbep'eTavern, containing in front on said (treet
thirty foiy feet, and extending in depth caftward
twelve perches, together with the buildings there
on ere«&ed, which consist of a good brick house,
two ilorics high, well finifhed, with two rooms a
bout fcVcnteen or eighteen feet square each, and a
paflage eight or ten feet wide 011 the firft floor ;
three rooms with a paflage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which i« used
as a kitchen; a back brick building with two rooms
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the npper rooms of this building communi
cate above flairs with the pafiage of the house :
A brick smoke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpe<sl as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Ei<>hth-ftreet, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 17. tus4w
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry an 1 Saflafrae
Sjtreet',, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth ealt-
ninety-five feet, then widening to the
foiitii thirteen feet fix iaches. These houses
the convenience of a pubPc alley adjoin
iijg on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
nation for a a merchant, flour fatflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo!d on very reasonable
terms for ralh. F»r further information apply
to the printer.
April 5 m*wtf
-7o be Let,
A three story brick House,
With Stables, and a Garden containing nearly one
acre of choice ground, several Summer Houses,
Fruit Trees, <Scc. on Race, and second street from
vSchuylkill ; the whole in good condition, and the
situation high, airy and excellent lor a place of
public enrertainmenP.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and no deep,
is also to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at. No. 39,
Pine street.
Wm. currie.
march 11. wstf
Valuable Stands for Business.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second aod Third streets :—o«e containing
eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
lf a me breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 82)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well buill
three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold fepapuely or tage
ther.
Further particulars may b« known on applica- i
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, yw.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library,
march 13. I[eflßw
Balkenridge—for sale
IT ionfi(l« of 910 acres, almost all of which k
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Eerl of St rling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on th«
Eafl by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a v«ry convenient one and|a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts ot laid
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreos, that add to th« beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 61.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
N». 78, Chefnut - treet.
February 1. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and confill of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's hou «s, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , Sec. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring filhery. It is
conveniently fitjated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the alfo, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.—
The whole will b« fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit tne purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting ol Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of. For further
particulars apply to Geokoe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. 2aw6w
~ FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. Si, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Repr.fentatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against V« ILLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houf. of Rcprefentatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftruiling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
means, todifcover the whole nature and exttnt
» of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" Hands impeache.i, aDd who are the parties and
' affociatestherein."
Printed by order »f the House of Reprefcntatives
December to. $
R&n away from the subscriber;
on the 14th inft. two indented Irish Servant Men:
Thomas M'Gvire, about 25 years of age, and 5
fret 8 inches high, rob*ft, ftoct, and well made,
short black hair, rcir.arkabU for a fear on one of
his temples ; he is a forward, deteitful, viciou9,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, biit of a milder difpulitios, and more slen
der make, fliort brown hair ; their working appa
relwas blue cloth over jickett, lined W.ith coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen (him, gr:y
yarn flocking*), mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and ruflett leather fhocs; they haVe other cloarh'mg
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, bjit have been brought up to the farm
ing buiinefs ; no doubt will have forged pafle* and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the port road to Philapelphia, I pur
chased them the last fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for fecuringthem
so that 1 get them, and will pay nil reafoi .iile
charges if brofight home, or if feparar,ed, Thirty
D*llar» for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry*
ARTHUR 3RYAN,
Head of Wye, T-albotCoUnty—March 7.
march 14. -^avvjw
Efcapea.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made ihcif efeapc, be."ween
i and 2 o'clock, this morn in ~ two Men, who
were convi&cd of/dealing—one of th :m calls him
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
Legg is a grey headed Man. about years old, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head; Hambleton is about 26 years old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the above described
thieves, afmallman, who calls himfclf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 feet 6 incheshigh,
light hair, fair complexion, fmiies when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will secure
the thieves in any Gaol in New-Jurfey or Pennfyl-
Vania, {hall b? entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one, Filteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sher if
Bridgetown, march 15. 24 —nit&ijw
for sale;
ALL that elegaut three story Brick House, brick
Kjitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
fuuth Vveft corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
containing in front on Fourth street 33 feet, and
in length on Prune ftre<?t 98 feet, to a four feet ali
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick Hdlife and Lot of Ground
situate on thy well fide ef Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth on Fourth
ilreet 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 feet 011 the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the last
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide ioafeet, thence running southward 11 feet 6
inches, thence farther weft ward 12 feet, thence
still fuTther southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common use of the said four feet alley leading In
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purchaser.
For terms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of
fice, So. 114 South Fowrth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march 31. flawtf
For Sale,
A good fituatiori for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Geij
mantown, End about five miles from the city ;
the whole being under good fence, and in ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For farther information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Crisson, at his Office for the
sale of Real Estates, Coßveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-street.
4th mo. 3d. tu&fllt
Israel Morris 1
against j Maryland.
Thomas Margatroyd, James Bell, ! In Chancery,
Marflcall and Benjamin Smith, f March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, j 1795.
deeeafed.
r "I , HE »bje& of the bill, is for tbe Complain-
X nant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
3 ift day of December, 1781, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £.200 principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant assigned, by way of security for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, for the sum
of £.350 that the said Tucker received of the
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
lum of £.IOO and neglefted to take steps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became infulvent.
The bill dates that all the defendants arc
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, that he
cause a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks fuccefiively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
at any time before the firft day of May next,
orferved upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants application to
this court and of the substance and objeft of his
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third Twcfday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree Ihould not pass
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Cau.
April 3 CO3W
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boxes andjbafkets
Lunelle
Macarty, and f
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Intitled
Irilh market ") . , > to
Medoc, and Sau'erne 5 ' 1 3 s drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 40O0bu(hels I iverpoolSalt.
march 19 mw&ftf
~~ LAN DIN G "
From on board the Schooner Range*, from
Jacsvemil,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 117 Chefnut-ftreet.
Who has remaining 011 hand 6,c00 pieces In
dia NANKEKNS, ofifupenor quality.
March 15. d6t
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH I, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpurfuanceoftheA&of C.ngrcfs pafled on the sixth day of July one thousand feren hundred aad
nir etr-feven, entitled "An Aft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper ,an e
Aft palled on the fifteenth day of December, ene thousand seven hundred and nin«ty-levcn, entit ea
" An A«st to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Act en J**
tied "An Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter t e
firft day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United State* • !
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, »pon which Hull be
written or printed any or cither of the instruments or writingslollowing—to wit 1 ,
D/s Cts. |MU
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... 5
Any Licence to pra<flice,or Certificate of the admission, enrolment er registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proftor, in any Court of the
Umted States, ... - . 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Officer, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty be a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under tbe seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patcntr(ex
cept for landi granted for military fcrvices) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpomlentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
ther testamentary inftriwnent, or for any share or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any statute of <liftrrbuti»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun*
dred Dollars, .... -
When theiamount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
Ihall not exceed five hgndrod dollars, ... $0
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional Aim of x
Any Policy oflnluranceor inftrtiment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefiel or
poods insured from one diftridl to another in the United States, J5 1
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is madefhall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured (liall exceed five hundred dollars, - j
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than Inch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of promifl" rv
note or other note,other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or otker obliga
tion or Contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
use refpeftively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dcliars, 50
And if above one thousand dolbrs, - - ...
Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be liibjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid—viz. - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundreil dollars and not exceeding five hundred doll .11 s, 10
If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes ifiuedby the banks now eftablilhred, or that may\ hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the United States, other than the notos of.fuch of the said Banks
as (hall agree t. an annual composition, o» one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpedively, according to
the following.fcale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
C n all notes above one hundred dollars and not cxcttding five hundred
dollars, - - ... !
On all notes above five htindred dollars, - 1
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed iu the late war, - - '5 '
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than 1
five hundred dollars, ..... 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, i
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one dillrift to another diftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State, .... [0
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 2 $
Any Inventory or Catalogue,of any furniture, goods or effefts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United-States, or of any State or other Bank,
Ii above twenty dollars and Rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
- 11.
Tbe dutiesaforelaid will be collefted and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
of Itifpeftion, in the several Diftrifts, Surveys and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
perfonsas (hall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Suptrviiors of Diftrifts for
that purpose. I , ,
111.
The Supervifsrs of the several Diftrifts will, prior t® the firft day of July ensuing, and aa feon as
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, withonyef the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the fa id duties ; Or
flamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervifcr, Infpeftor. Officer of Infpeftien,
or other p«r£oo appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrifts.
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year ibivemenlitned.
"OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON bf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, 1 entitled to
1(1 and 2d proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
N~O~T I C E.
ALL persons who have any demands against
tha estate of Willam FlfetWood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested ro exhibit their accounts,
properly aitefled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are deGred to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, } . . a ,
No. 4j, So. Third-flreet. J Ad »" n, J lr r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-floret of Mefirs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okmrob,
in Philadelphia
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting cr Bilious
Fevers.
To which it annexed)
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions anj praSice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa&s and reflexions relative to
the Synochuj Jcirruidn, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned To much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of thtt United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3fti§
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft; Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Severn Dalian, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secend-ftreet
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dtllari, where check books are kept lor rigifler
ing and examining in these, the City ol Washing
ton, No. ll.and Paturfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in mofljof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The bafinefsof a Broker, inbuyingabd
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco*nting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &s. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
Novembfrij. $
Salisbury Estate.
rHE Subscriber, proposing to contrast bit bufi
nef», offer# this liftaie lor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and * very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfcft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of catling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two Ihouland acrea
of Land, one half of which isaunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Paflure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ii
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to any in the world ; for not oue ot sixty-nine g«n»
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 3Z pounders have failtd on proving. The fitu
ationn very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aad a place ot arms lying in the Hate
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iiTuing
from a large natural pond, very I near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can braccommodat.
Ed with all the stock and utenli'.i, and have poffefiion
onor before the fir aof June next, and preparation
may be madein the mean time for going into Blafl im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, 4c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia! David Brooks, Elq.one oftheßeprefentawvc*
in Congress for this State; Mr, David Waterman, on
theprenufes, or totheprupiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
De«. t, 3awif
h 0 T 1 C E. T
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has bee™
been lately ereCted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, Ita.e of NewJ
York, where any article of various forts and fhapea
may be executed, as well as cArt hern (toves upon 1
new conltruflion, that laves three fourths ®f the fuel
commonly used in cast iron Itoves or open chymniea;
they arebefideavery wholefotne and ornamental, by
applyingto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaring part of the said ware. 'Generoua appoint*
mcnts will be given. Apply as above, or t<>
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Fcb - '9- eod«y
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convtnient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or on
more for a longqr term. Inquire of th« Pj inttr.
Oft. 17. ulf