cf ti» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMiEX I 692. J
&t. Croix Sugars.
26 hogsheads bell ST. CUOIX SUGAR,
*OR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON# Co.
Feb. 9 fm&wtf
tOR SALE,
•Y twb subscriber?, flo. ir, Penn-ftrect,
The Cargb of the Ship Ganges^
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confijttng 6/
Baftas, of qualities and prices,
Coflaca Punjum Cloths
Sanahf Gnrzey do.
Hunahums Charconna Dorea
£iwe Cl. th Tan}ibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
MAharagongei Patna Hkfs.
Gi'ftgha«is Mulmti do.
Guzzengs Mandarnoes
G UIT airs Sifterfoy
Choppa librnak
Sfiieatchjrs Sooty do.
Oiilic Uoroals Perfijfns of various cdl.
it.f&cfc Pulicats
tons StTGAR
9®, 000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings £5? Frah'cis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to fate at that
commodious store the north weft corrstr cf
Market and Fourth-ftreers.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafe Hkfs. «f sle
'g-ant patterns and bed colours.
fejhruai y3. „ .
NICKLm Sis GRir-FTH,
At their Store on Wilnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALt,
jS hhd». of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wme in pipes andhhrfj.
Tfcneriffe do. in p pet
Old Port do. in hhda.
Jinperial Tea in quertrrs and eighths ef (thefts
Sail Canvafj, No. x, to 8
Diinitiet. Gingharei, and Muflinets, m packa
ge« suitable fkr the Wtft-lndia marktt
Naili aiTurted
ifllack qaart bottles
Queens ware m hhdi. and t»«tA
Yellow ochre dry in Calks';
And at New-York, on board the
4bip Diana, from Live#pool, expedted round
'as soon as the navigation is open*
Fme Liverpool Salt
fcoals
Spinifh Brown "1
Venetian Red J
Purple Brown : PAIKT<!
Patent White J' rAINIS
White Lead |
fed Lead J
eoVcthar vitriol
1 So bundles tlheitling paper
Seaming T^fr.oc
F° r Sale or Chatter,
a |r Ml
N. B. '1 helafe firwi of Philip Nicktix !t Co.
ft now champed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January I. endtf
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a confidersble time on the
iMffio* ih the country ps'rts of the slate of Penn
fyhrania, plves this notice to any exronfive pro
prietor of land within the said state, and bordtr
mg on either the Potomack. 'Sufquehanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlsment with.from fifty to one hundred and fif
tv families, if due encouragement be cfered
For ln-ther information, apply to tlie Rev. Le»-
Ttalrd Nealt, killing's Alley.
Feb. 8. *.<t '
IN THE PRESS,
AND SFtUDILY WILL Be PUBLISHID,
fccflediorw on Monroe's View
9T ran eotrvvet ot
At pnWifhed m the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figiiaturw of
SCIPIO,
In which the comtrtercral warfare of France is
traced to the French faction in this country
as its source, and the motives of the oppof.tion
to the measures of the United States are cxpofed.
Feb. S.
111-It" V.-. . ; O—:
The holders of Certificates, ac-
endorfements and other engagements of
heithy notified, that Wtfdnefday.thfe Febru
ary, nc it, i«the\aft day, on which they-can admit
.fubicriptions to the lufid aflsg«eifor the payment
of fafd engagement*; and that those holders, wlu>
tTo nbt on or before that day make their fubferip
tftMft, wiil be rtclisdod from the benefit thereof.
Henry Pratt,
r. W. Francis,
John Milltr, ju'n.
John AJhlty,
Jacsb Baktr.
January tg 5
{ 'l' - '• *' ** ' * '' ' '
Boston Glass Manufadory.
qpHE fitizens of tht Uditi d spite, are hcreSy
I informed, that the mmuftnaurfc of Wihdow
Grill is now commenced at the Ghfs Houfc in
It ls fieedlefs to fay my thing of the ci:elleut
<Hiiility of the Soft ■ n OMi, as it is (a »\!l ktiofc'u
throi'jhout the Wnirttl Stsitest* fc< fn trcry ref
peS jjreatty fupirior to boy ever imparted (ro/n
Europe.
It will be cut to asy fire commonly uftd ; and
tnay be cortantly had by applying tb Ckmiti F.
Kxf/ir, at theOlif Hou'.e
Orders from the iilhint StatestObe addressed to
Mr. Stmntl C»n, Cocrt-ltra-t, Boston.
gj" Two or three i;ooJ Glass makers ar« waot
«d at the above works; luch as can produce re
corartund«io»i for good behavior, maybe lure of
employ, by application to Mr. Gttrtt L. LlrJt, : t
t j u . w orks. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquarttid with the nieth»d
. f makirg Crown Window Glass, they wi 1 n-.eet
with the lame eiicouia^etiseDt.
i)bSor,, Janafry it aawi#
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefmii Street
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRfI.'IRT 10, 179S
JUST RECEIVED,
AND TO* SALS, At
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second (treats,
Caufcs qui fe font oppofees aux
Progrcs du commerce, entre LA FKANCEet le»
BTATS-UNIS de L'AMlifclQUE.
Avee lcs Moyens de l'acc4l£rer ;
Et la comparaifoo dc la Dcttc Nationals
dc l'Angleterre dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addreflecs a Monsieur Ie Mar
quis ds la Fatittk. TraJuit fur lc Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Legislature de la Ripublique
du MaflachulTet.
Lc Commerce eft la portion la plus lea
(RichelTss Nation ales
——LeTriden t de Neptune, eft le Iceptre du Monde.
UmikK.
Gr caufcs that have been opposed to the
PROGREbS of i OMMERCti between
FRANC It. <W the UNJTtO STATES sf AUZttCA.
With the means of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, France t and America.
In -Six letters, diredted to the Marquis
m Ba F*v*TTE-
Tranilattd (into French from the original Hng
lifh Manufcmt of Col. bw/tN, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legiflaturc of Maflachnfetts.
Commerce is the most important portion 6f the
Wealth of Nations.
til, ft fhi TrWcnt of Nteptune is the Sceptre of
the world* Lemur*.
AT a .jun&urc when the question of
a Cirimtrtial Treaty in lib France may ioon
become an ohjeifc of difcufiion, a work of this kind
'becomes extremely ufeful to those eitizens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selVes to view this #ubjedt, tinder its various af
peAs; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
furnifhed with the /icceffary data, to judge of the
ufefnlnefs of this tranfa&ion.
This work is principally diftißguiftied by the
richnd> of the obfervatidhs, the pcirfpicuity of th*
and Of the theory which k
contains. A t Pars, «. man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the \Very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref •
fed to the unfortunate La Fatbtte, in letters,
which fugitive fo r m, the author who could only
devote a felv weeks to this occupation, was obliged
Although circumltanc-fs arc ill many
rnpeds different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, when thefc letters
were written, yet it maybe justly faid,that so ma
ny abfolote and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious* reader Will not appreciate the
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as tuny of
the alterations, which have been made, ere the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfaAioiis 1 between free
nations, every thing maybe expe&ed from the ef
forts of truth and ju 0 ice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obttacles, created in France,
to pievent the extension ot commerce, with the
United Stat, s—Obfervations made in*a tour, taken
for tfhat cxpreft purpoie, upbn some Frijnth manu
factures (a precious fragment thi*). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices exrftlng lsi Frartfe,
againd the quality of certain produ&ions of thfc
United States, and againfi the advantages of tkeii*
importation—Demon it rat ion of the bad policy of
laying dutAss ©to th-iir imitation, prinfcip'ally on
provifrons in general, arid on felt prdvifions, and
fi(h in pa ticufcr—Conftdcrattona on the regulations
of the French en fcom-houfes.
LET I'ER 11.
Obftatles to the extension of trade with Fran e,
pioceeding from circumitanccs and individuals in
tie United States^Proofs tha: these oh!iAtle6 are
only temporary and will be removed (they havt
been removed,) by tjme and the wisdom oi jjojMrii
ment—Hiilory of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rihciples and abilraJl
confkjerafions en mohey and circulation-—Cat&s
of the 11 agnalien of >mericin trade, after ihe
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary cot»du&
of the French iVierchants—Efte&s of good com
mercial laWs; and patriotic Nvifhcson this fuhjeit—
Obicrvitfons Cn money, weights and incajui'cs.
LETTER 111.
Effsy in the foim > f a tableau, to appreife the im
portations into the United Slates from France and tng
hnd vnteti. The author examines at each article,
whether it cin be better furnifhed frmn France or
England—lt is principally on this fwhjcft
would haveaitoniihed a mere thsori(l) the author
appears to evince great con- m rcial experience Thefi
kin.l Of tailtaaxr, uuiuckily as difficult so obtain as
they are much to be defiled, aieths only fuie guides
the statesman can take for tii policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We C;nr>ot too much admire the apparent cx
a&nfcfs of CbWnel Swan's calculations and although
the of Lord Sheffield have already beCn
contradicted by experience, and by ievcra'i able pens, 4
yet it is curious to fee the author of the prelent work,
difjiute with him the .only grbut d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, wiil be better able
than Gie2t to fuppty us with (everal articles,
Which ihe tnglilh author allots exciufively and foiev
ertoihe latter; the author's pOitikttty he
has any) dors not appear to have at any uttie creattd
a partiality of judgitent. 1 lie result of this calcul .uon
is that in >709, mat is to fay, at a period when arti
and rftanufe&aies did j.o present in France the valt
means ami probabili y of txtenfion Whicn i.hey nttw
p6ff.-fs. that even in 1789, it was pret'unyblc, that
France would not only have the means 10 luuply one
half of anv given quanti y of the productions of Frame
nrtJ : trgtanavnitsil, but alio tu enter into CV^mpetition
with Great Britain for the remainder, iu proportion
to the wiidoin of her government,
of hiV inbabitim*
L£tTER IV.
Clklilatidn of the eXpoitations Of the United States,
a ltd particular examination of their to
France; this is one featon why, uotwtrMtaudiog the
! excell nt work of Mr. lencfi Goxe, Mr. Swan'a hi
bleau is by no means ftipeifluous . the principle of the
■advantages which wou-.d tefult to France lr#ra the
importation ot provitionsand raw matii.ula, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, th*t
the author cftJblilhes his demands to ihe French go-
VettfoHit, fbr the limited ad million of the produc
tions or his coantry into France
LttTtK V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
tiine—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
VfteHsot uafio- ai debt, 011 circulation, as more
amply detailed in his Nanopal /frithmetic prin.ed at
Eofloa in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
flrengthen in France, the pubi c and private credit
of the United States'—the happy conditio <of Ameri
ca, and rbaifciterie* arifin'g trom cr.e public debt in
Europe, are cantiafkd in the nuonrr, and Un
der the raoft linking telaiions, by very eu ibtis cal
cula ion:—Oblervitiorrs on the wisdom and economy
wb'ich prelidc ov-f the pqb'lic expenses Maffachu
fc::«. In this place the patrifttilm ©t thr author ap
pears, with all fie eSevai too wh:ch ajulfc nation!
pride inlpues. The ancient o f Europe
I fays he, will learn from us economy in
r*crtir.j^enfih^theli'tvicts which tbe country receives."
| Amongfl ut it tvitl 6: fan, 'Oreckojet Jbrpttots,
and rot p ace* for ny:n. This leuef coi.clurTs wirtj .a
general view ot trie public dcpofaied ia ihe
hand* of the government of the Uoited Sates.
LETTER VI
Genera' examination ol the dcle&i of the commer
cial policy ot France with refptffc 4« the United States ;
many of thafe obfervauons have produced the effc&s
for which ihey t-weie intended, others llill remain,
punning out the reforms \o be made in future, as a
good chart marks the (hoafs and rocks. The author
concludes his work, by fixing hi* attention on his
country, and the great men who have -v dered it il
lustrious*, and we take a plealure in quoting whjt kr
fays of the prefenc thief of our government, lo
praise a man when be e>erfcifes a diitingunhcd em
ploymcnt, is common, and yasv be taken for flattery ;
but whilst lie is in private life, u i» the homage of
finocrity.
Note, page g»6 of the \*ork,
* Les habitant des Eiats-unis, fuivant dans leur
choix le bien public, 8c <xcues par un principe de
reconnoifTuiCc, choifirenc M. Join Adams pour vice
prefidrnt du nouvdou cougreo. Sea efforts, pour pre
server le pcuple des intrigues fprmees par le gpUv.
frnement Anglais contre fa liberir, le rendiient tres
fufpedt a ceux q'jt etoient en pouv»ir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour ua de fes
rcpretentans dans le premier congres. De ce norabre
etoit aufli M Samuel Adams, patriote auffi intrcpide,
qu'inlatigablc La revolution Americaine dji beau
coup a la pfcrlcverance de fes travaux, & * % talens
diltmges. C<*ux que M. John Adams a deveJoppes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'cik t#ic a Pans en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit mimftre auffi habile tfao grind
pa itique. bt dans son ouvrage lur la defenie de la
constitution Ameiicaine, il a montae toiit£s lescan
noiff,nc'es qui ftfrment les vrais jnrifconlultes Sc. lis
honwnesde lei; connoiffapces neceflaires, po*jrrera
piir honprablement les too«tions de prcQdent du fentt
des E ats-unis. .
House and Lots, in Bordentowr..
r T' , O BE SOLD, a handfonie two story Hoiffe,
X with the Lot on which If is eredied, fituat
cd about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village ©f Bordentovn. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back ilreet. Alio, a large Lot,con
taining nearly four acres, iepaqyed 'from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w SI be give* as the purchases may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title give#.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the premifc3, who will shew Ihe fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
P.ecernher 2. 3awtf
Princeton—i\ew-Jerjey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House hi which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; with all the ap
purtenances. The house i»,two (lories high,
of frame work and painted. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and live
rooms on the second floor.. The cellars are
dry, and the garret fpeaiou*—The back yard
i 3 pived with IVoncs. In it a welt of excel
lent Water, an oven, a fffrolt£ hofcfe, itfdfr6ufe
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, graaery, and convenient (tables with sous
ftall&for horses, and 1 four for nea: cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wrde iipbn th.fc street, and 254 feet
deep, somewhat more than fraff Of whi h is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be m'ai'c very reafon
ab!«, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19.
—, ,—! '
City Commissioner's Office,
January iitb,
FOR THS INFORMATION . F l s K> CITIZEN :.
Hj "'HE following arrangement is m«Mle by the
-L said com'mifliWers, for cicanfipg cliff
streets, &c
No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the fi&u-h lide. oi Mulberry to
be under the fuperintrndjßce or Nicholas Hk ks.
2 Fron) the south fide ny M»!brry itrett,. to
the south fide of Cl.elhut ftrre.t, to'be under the
of Williafn Mouldtr
3. From the south fide of Chefwut street to
the nor'h fide of spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Jol'eph Claypooje.
4. From the coithfldeof Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar jirter, to be usder the fu
. e'inteudance cf I'!ugh Roberts. tswfim
For faie or to be let on ground
rent,
valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE'on the north-caJc corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the 6tate-
Hc.ufe square. This lot is si ty-unc feet front ,
on Walnut street, and one huculrftd and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two iV«all two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
\ yll/o, for Sale*
T-<vo three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, fits, .ft uate on
Water street, between Mulberry anl Saffafras
Streets, containing in front en VVater P.reet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadih ealt
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
fourh thirteen feet tlx iaches. These houses
have the convenience of a pobl'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defifablefu
uatiox sot a a merchant, flour fa<stor, or Others
who may have occafioa for storage of goodl.
vt'his prope'ty w;ll be fo'cl on very reafoh able
terms for ca(h. For hirthir irfforn-atioii apply
t» the printer.
Jafy 31. fltScwtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joinets, &c.
Cavanagh & Heanij
Pijie street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, l>y their attention,
merit ■ continuance of their favors. The part
-ocrfiup bf «een them and Jofeoh B. Barry, has
been difiolved by mutual conlent. Cavanagh
jnd Hearn havejuit received a quantity of St.
Doiningo and Honduras Mahogony, which tK y
ir tend to fell on very reasonable terms for cafli.
Orderb hsra the cou«tr)' most pun&ually exe
cuted. Vinctrs of all kinds Cut as usual.
Jan. 15. 2aw 4 w
Hvfon and Young Hyi'on Tea.
A fc.y chcttsof excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of 3ecosd and Pine street?. Ds? 26—to:f
Bank of Pennfvlvania.
' J
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the j
Bark r-n Friday, the 2d February, purfh
aut to public notice—
On motion, Krfolvffd, That, f his rf.tetinj be
ing imp/cfted VvitK a of ihe exrrinrdina
ry ferviee* and uttemiob of Samoel M.
Frefltlent of thii Bank, io the execution of the du
ties of his office ; which have been much increas
ed by the peculiar situation of the invitation, at
the period of hi* a, ; aud I y the ulifi
ca'ties occafiotied in
lamity in this city ;-a eomwiitttfe bf thtee gentle
men he an ointed to propate a piccc ot -i'lace, r.( a
value not exceeding five hundred dollars, withfuit
able emblems and devicei, to be to Mr.
Fox, in the na*r.e of thfc
dence of tfie hijjh Firife th%y enteMaifi df late
official lervicns.
William T. Smith, Peter Wikoff, -anJ Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for-the
above purpose.
Ordered, thit the pftcerfinfc refoluribn be pub-
Hfced.
from the minute*.
WILLIAM T. SVIiTH,
Cbuimtan.
Atttf —J»HM SITGREAVES, Stsretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at j
Morrises Wharf, just above the Draw- |
bridge, the cargo of the fch»oner
rick (burg Packet, Captain Pearcte from
Malaga, viz.
Kioom Raifint in k^gs
Do. Do. in botfCs
Mufcatcl do. in do.
figs in k'^fs
Almond kernels in ca|ks and bc£es
Soft (hell'd almonds iff facts
riun«* in boxes
Grapis in jar^
Anthdvwrs in kegs, ißcc.
The whole of the articles (hipped as of the ifirft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February 5 rijt
Fresh Fruits and Wine.
Edward Dunant,
No. 149, Sttuth
Has rcmaiaing of the cargo pr Johanna, from
Malaga —
99 kegs Raisins
111 Box* } n,oom d 0"
ioj ditto Mufcatcl do.
13 ktgt Figs
10 qr caflts fine old Colemenar Wine
A few pipesand hogfheadi of Celalonia Wine,
and Malaga and Mountain Wise in hhds and
quarter calks.
He has also Mr Sale—
A few picltagis of Madiafi and Calcutta
goods, viz.
TicJcery—Htioi^unu
Barhar Handkerchiefs
Black and coloured TjfEties and I'erfians
Hinfl J H nnes—Choppa Komalls—Putlicot Wrf-
Patna Chinfz
Likewifc a. few boxes of Spermaclti tangles,
and faagsof fihJck Pepper.
Fch. ». 31
For 'Sale.
TtTE SuHfcrib'er oifcr« for sale tha property cow
occupied By hiiii hi the town of Wfcfh C'hofl«r
and cotintf
two-flory h#ufe, 4,1 feet front, by ~abaj(r 4.0
deep, lour j- ; oiih on a llodr, with cicled -girret?#, .
ifciiLi a Qeilar under the whola—A- very good front
Stable and.Co'aca Koufc*-—And a lot of (Ground,
ts»Vete p/nJhCß'wide, by iwVrlfy perches
The'hfci/fe Ifand? ton the tfoam street; its llWS'tlbn
"«md Vi fy handfonie.; tlte lot Attend a lb u
hack llree , on which the,ftable ind coach h6u[j
■ Irani, she lot is in a higii state ®l cultivativin,
zildthfere is in the yard a pilmp of excellent water,
which h\ts, at tfb tiiire, hein known tWfall.
ThefifUadon of tire to'wn Ishfgh, aiid r
ably lioalthy—the eotitkry : round it, fertile and
bcaytiful.
fKe tints cf p;ijmern will niade to suit the,'
T?icy , nn'd price, will be fettled, j
tlprn appifcuion to' Mr. J'oN.t'raAN SM Tit, it lio;
149, South i'hird-ilrtfct, nr to
ROBERT PRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica,landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhds. and 300 b.irrejs choice Cdsfdc
98 Hhds of prime iugar
39 Hhds. Of Rum.
For sale By
Pettr Blight.
At-so oefiiis ict. s\l f i y v
Lbstd Java Coffee
Bco Beg;s co. sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A 'A H»fp*ni'6!a *
Ked Port W ihe in p»<>es and "hogfhnds
Madeira d«- in pipes
d2*veotm
Pr i son Mana fa clo ry.
FOR. S.tLJS,
At thePrifon-of the* C\ty -4? d Ctoimty of Phihdcl
pnia,
Cut Nails 6f ill /rori *iy to iody
Flooring Brads, % .jclie ahd card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Lo£W' dd
Shoemakeis &nd Sa«gl« r« Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, fuitjdble for currier's tables,
fpm'» and hea ttones, inearths , chimney pieces,
{lib's, facia, wiridow c .
/ill Which iu 3y he h<ifi On rt'afoniblc
Shoes made and done it said ac
a moderate price.
Orders from a dirked to Dayiel Tho
mas, agent for rise p*fun, will be attended to.
Decerni>tr 26 uith6m
A Nurft's place wanted.
i A WOM NjuAarrivtd from Kngland, wants'a
plac« as a Xurfeor i.:tcnddnt on the either on a
Gttjtleman or Lady.—For further iufaiinanoa apply
at No. 10, South /ouith street, uear Maike Ureet.
Feb. 6. 31
For Sale,
The time of a voting Mulatto Girl, about
(welvtt years trlJ, has about eleven years fioferve.
Shp is very capable of liking c|re of a tuihl,
and underflaaQa house work. Knquire at No.
97, North.sth street.
Jaa. 22. *eoJ2w
( Cam>.l Office,
l ,:>ri,ary 7. 1797-
! % A N mt'i'tiar of the Moikholiirrjp b£
J.!, the Dciaw.ifc a\ 1 sci.uy)tti I Canal Naviga
tion, will In* held, at the 'Cbmpa«iy®» office, wn
Friday hcxt. ar 7 o'clock, t m
GEO. WORRALL, Stircttry.
February 7. 3 _
Lost—Ycfterclay in-the Market,
AM ORDER, drawn by capt. Rich.rd O k ßf»cn,
favor of John I.arl&Ufctf, on Mr. Tcdck Frahcif v
Purveyor of Public Suppii-*. Whoc vcr has found
the fame, i» reqntOe 1 10 teiTe it it Thorn** Lar
kum'a, a-8o fourh Front-Unset,"or at this office.—
Payment being lh>pped, it can be 01 no ufeto ary
Q nebut the Owner. Tfb. 7
c 3* Stop the Runaway.
AB3CONBF.D from his mafler'* employ, in th*
city of PMhiJeipbia, on tfte jth of this ix
flant a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
b«ut 5 feet 6 or 7 inches hi height, ated of rather
a spare make ; .hi* pfcitiognomy is vUcai t bUt'no*
dif grceabte ; hi* age U supposed to be 40.
He bad«u when he went away, a Pior:
coat, striped calftmerc vplt, corduroy breethes,
a««i,yar4i itockiiigs of a blue and •white mixture—
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
"f which is e.4g;'J with y %low binding ; a long
Brown cloth co t ; a fWt blue cloth ccat wit 1
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; alio, i pairofblus
cloth breeches; the other cioa{£<*s he took wish
j him caririot "be particularly defefib^d
It is luppoied, He intends goine to the eaflcm
(hers of Maryland. Whoever will apprctifeb<!, I &fKi
fecOre the'ftnj negfo in that hi* matter
may gethirn Igfcirt, or tfi-ing- Wrti horrte, fbalMiava
a reward of we sty dollar 3.
Apply to the
February 7. $
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious wctrnan to cook
a/id do the buHnef* «if the kitchen. £uch a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 $
Just Publilhed,
And to be had at the Book-&ores of UTefTrs. Dtoa
*o-w, Campb 1 11, Y«unc and Okukod,
in Philadelphia,
observations
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting ar Biliovs
Fevers.
To -jobicb h annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op nions and pra&ice of
different authors : and an PPENDIX. exhib
iting intcrefling fa*sts and tefieilions relative to
the Syncebus iSieroidts, or \ cllow Fever, wbich.
has occasioned so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fezpert
towns of the United S'ates of America.
*y WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of th® Philadel; hia Colicge of hyfieians,
and Member of the American Philo.ophical S®-
C 1 Feb. I—»3m§
IN THE PRESS,
And speedily will be Publijbed,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
IVritien at Scq % 1/1 the year I 794 ;
And now printed
BC THE AUTHOR.
A naVV woiTd"be maintained bnt to an almeft
ufeiefs purpefe which taking thefeameh kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading vtficlt
would be as inprofitably employed, if they took
311 thofcftameri whofefkillandaourage onboard Alps
of war, would give them pr teiiion ;ttd facurc
their fafety. Wc enough for both par poles ,
aild tHecuitlvatihg hand 0/ attention alone is wailt-
M?g 10 multiply theirnuinbtr. " Muneymaybtiy
%( al' naval ftcrcS, except mariners; but, ctlleffa
" iupptyof them ispreferved, no wealth will be
" afile to procure them,*'
February 7.
"" WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Dcdlor ot a Ship 10 the East-Indies.
Eoquire at No. 25 Do k Stieef.
d 1 w
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoardineSchool for young Ladies.
MRS. GkOOMBfyDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns hrr fmccre ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received duh'ng fcur years residence fn
Philadelphia; and allures "her friends and the
public, so far from inteivdinj to decline her
school, flic .has made a superior arrangtmtnt for
the more Wnrenieiit itc'ommd«( J :ioo of her
11-holars.—fivery hranth of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attenled by Mrs.
Gryombridge a;id niaftcrs ejccelling iii their
refpeClive pr^fcEjoris.
Corner f.f and Eleventh Streerjr.
June stlk, I JrmftV
I'ha (ttsaiion ij prrfeiSilyhralthy : and Inide
more agrte'able by an tifje"five garden unti lot
of grqurvi adjoining the houl'e.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WJI.L comoience drawing Monday, theisth
iliil. Ticlcms for Sale in this I.ctt.ry, ac
Balm, Jt Wm. KLACKBURJ,". Lottery
»uJ Broker. Office, Nb, 64, Soufll Se'cond-flreet—
iiclicts iathie Schuytkill'Bridge .Lottery, at TV,
I-olijrs, where check bcokrart ]t«pt lor regifter
ii'gllnd cx'iinihing in these, the City ol U'afting
ton, Nb 11. PatrJfoo Lotteries, arid informa
tion wture tickets' miyVe had in nu ft of the Lotte
r:es acthurifcd by law « any of the Jtates ot the
Dnion,
N.B. The bofincfi of a B«oker. inbuvlno-aßd
fellir.valt k'indi 0/ Stock an.i Kci.rities,
i'ifc«.*t fly?. -3 j Srcct of Hand, fafc bf
Lands, Ac. &c. will be duly atteiic!?d sb,
b X WM. BLACttUORN.
. , , j r
SALES RV AUCTION.
-
iih) teel Sales
For D'R r G'JO as.
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. r'i,
J ou,h Fron '- Urc "'
J Afternoon—Footmlu & Co. No. 6j
C South Front-ftrcet.
( Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Cltv
7-„./v.' J AuHioa- No 73 fouA l ront-ftreet.
J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 18.1 High-lfreet.
ITiZttfdaj \ '' enfbn ' Nc - 7*
' I louih fhini-flrcet.
Tk>-rflA« J Forei^oott— Fox.
Tbutfdoy | Aff'-rnooat—J, !ui Cnnsdly.
Fr'/lnt ( torcijoon—\\ iiltam Shanuoa.
\ Afterdoou—John ConnelTy.
Saturday Aftcriroon—Potcr Senfon.
[Volume XIII3C»;e oasettr»
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY E VI! KING, tEBRUART Id.
Madams Upland's Historical Memoirs, sre
nn»v in the prtffc at New-York. The follow
ing arc extracts from the work.
The fitfl tune Roland appeared at court, af
ter being appointed mimHer for the home de
partmcnt. the pUinnefs of hit apparel, hia round
hat, «nd hi* #i"e« tied with ribbands, were mat
ter# of aftonifhmrnt and aflVnceto all the court
vileta ; to those beincs, who, drriving their
sole confcquence from etiquette, believed that
the fafctv of the Hate depended on ita preserva
tion. The trailer of the ceremonies, flepping
up to Dumourierwith alarm in his countenance
and a contracted brow, pointed out Roland by
aglancf of the eye : Oh dear ! Sir, said he in
a whisper, he has no buckle* in his (hoes ! Oh
toed! Sir, answered Dumeurier, witfc gravity
truly litighabU, we are mined and undone*
A council being held four tianes a week, the
minißers agreed to dine on those daya at one a
nother's houses by turna ; and every Friday I
received them ai my gucfls.
D"GRAVE
was then minister of war. He was > little man,
in every fenfeofthe *vord: Nature had made
him gentle, and timid ; his prejudices prompt
ed him to be haughty, while hit heart inspired
him with the desire of being amiable ; and in
his perplexity to reconcile these jarring affec
tion!, he becam • nothing at all. I think I fee
him now, walking on his heels like a courtier,
■with his head eredl on his {lender body ; turn
inu' up his blue eyes. whi<h he could not keep
open after dinner without the help of two or
three cups of coffee ; freaking little, as if out of
reserve, hut in reality for want of ideas ; and <t
length so bewildered in the labyrinth of his offi
cial business, at I* alk leave to retire.
LACORTE,
A true jack in office of the old order of things,
of which he had the infignificant and awkward
look, cold manner, and dogmatic tone ; want-d
none of those advantage* which a man hackney
ed in the routiueof public buGnefs seldom fails
to acquire ; but his apparent reserve and discre
tion concealed a violence of temper. which he
carried when contradified.to the most ridiruloiu
fxcefs. He was besides, deficient bnth in the
extensive views, and activity, neceflary for a
ininifler,
DURANTHON,
Who had been sent for flora Bourdeaux to be
made a minister of justice, was an honest man
according to common report s but he was very
in-'olen; ; his manner indicated vanity; andhis
t'mid difpoiiton, and pompous prattle, made
hiin always ippear nobttw than an old woman
CLAVTERE,
Whose con.inp rr.to offirt, wa» preceded by a
reputation of great (kill i» finance, waa, I make
ro doubt, well in fur wed upon that ful.j«<3, of
■which lam no judge. Aiflive, industrious, of
in irritjb'e difpofinon, obfiinate, as mail men
are who live much in the rflire-rijnt of the clo
ser, -rxl cavilling and uncomplying in debate i
h _-cordd not do otherwise tha# cljfh with Ko
!ir,i J ,who wis dry »ndperemptory in Jifputc.
r.id noflefs fliff in opinion than himfelf. Thefc
t ,vO men were made 'to «litem, wi»»u!ut
loving eac\i oiher ; and they have not belied
their destiny.
DCMQURJER,
iljd more of what is called parts than all of
trem put together, a»d less morality than any
one of the lomiir. Diligent, brave, an able
rM-rat.and artful courtic-, writing well, fpeak
in? fluently, and capable of gre>. t undertakings,
he wanted nothing but flrength of" mind pro
portioned to his genius *nd 1 eoolet head to
execute the plans he had conceived. Agreei
ble in his c, mmer'-e witt his friends, *nd ready
to deceive them all, attentive to women, but
by nteana calculated to fuceeed with thnfe,
whem a tender passion feduee : he was
made for the mitiiflerial inti"gnH of a corrupt
and faithie.V court. His hrilliant qualities and
love of fame, gave room to hope, that he might
be employed with advantage in the army of the
republic ; ?nd perhaps he \royld have proceed
ed in the right path, if the convention had been
pitidcnt; fnr he is too wife sot to aft like an
hrneit mm, when his doing so is conducive to
-his mtereft and reputation.
Deprave wasfucceeded by
SERVAN,
Anhorell man in the fulloft fignificaiion of the
term, of an ardent temper and excellent moral
chai jfler, with all the auflerity of a phi'efepier,
and all Jhe benevolence of a fee ing heart; t»
enlightened patriot, a brave foidicr, and an ac
tive minister J he Rood Id need of nothing tut
a mora fuber iroaginatidl), and a more flexible
mine).
Stkb were the member# of the council, of
uivoin was chosen a colic.gue.
BIOGRAPHr.
MALESHERBES.
'From " /necdotes of dijlinguijked Persons
ccnntSed with the French Revolution.'.']
CHRISTIAN WILLIAM DE LA
MOIGNON MALESHERBES wasborn
the 6th of December, 1731. At the age
of twenty four he bceame a counlellor of
parliament of the Caur ties Aides. He re
mained in- that important situation during
a period of twenty five yeart, and displayed
on many occufions, proofs of firmnefs, elo
quence, and wif loai.
When the prince of Conde was sent by
the king, in 1768, to lllence the magistrates
who taxes. Malefherbes repli
ed to hits, " Truth, fir, mnft indeed be
fnrmidable, fir.ee so many efforts are made
to prevent its approach to the throne." A
bout th: fame time that he became Prefi
degt of the Cour dti Aides ; he waa ap
pointed by his father, theft Chancellar of
Franc*, Supeiintendant of the press, a de
partment of office cr?ated for tlie purp«fe
of endaring ideas and paralyfng genius and
philosophy ; bnt which, under the direc
tion of Malefherbes, served only to extend
and accelerate thtir progress: —To him,
Trance in fndebted for the publication of the
Encyclopaedia, Roufftaii's works, ar.d ma
ny others, which, at that period, contribu
ted so rapidly to advance the (lock of puttie
knowledge. When learned men were bro't
before him in his offieial capacity to under
go an examination, he appeared to them
as adyjfing, aflifting, amd protefling them,
against that very power which was vested
in himfelf; and they experienced Jin him ■<
ence, a patron, a councilor, and a father.
In 177J, he resigned the oiEce of Chief
Frefident of the Ctvr des Aides, and' was
appointed minister and f-cretary of ftjtein
the place ef Vrilliere—Thus placed in the
centre of a fri/oUus yet brilliant court, 1
Malefherbes did not in the lead deviate from
his former (lmplicitr of J»f« and manners,
but in lieu of complying with tk< cftablifh
ed etiquette which required magistrates,
when they became minifttrs of Rate, to ex
change their fable habit and dress, for a co
loured suit, bag wig, and fwsrd, he retain
ed kis black coat, and magitterial peruke !
As, whA invested with the power de
signed to fetter the freedom of the press, it
was his chief aim to encvurage and extend
that freedom ; so, when raised to an of
fice which gave bim the unlimited power as
ilTuing Utters de cachet it was their total fup
prefllon that became the earliest objc£t of
his mo/} ardent zeal. Till that time letteri
decnthet, being considered as a part of the
general police, as well as of the royal pre
rogative, were issued not oiily at the will
of the minister, but etwn at the pleafurc nf
a common clerk, arperfons still more iafig
hificant. Malefherbes began by relinquiflt
ing himfelf thisabfurd and iniquitous privi
lege. He delegated the right to a kind of
tribunal, composed of the mud upright ma
gistrates, whose opinion was to be unani
mous, and founded upon open and well es
tablished fa<Sts Hp had but one more ob
je£l to attain, and that was to substitute a
legal tribunal in the place of that which he
had established ; and this objeft he was up
on the point of accomplifliing, when the
intrignes of the Court procured the dif
miflion of the virtuouß Turgat, aud Male
fherbes in confcquence, resigned on the 12th
of May, 1776.
After this epoch he undertook fevcral
jonrnies into diffcresuparts of France, Hol
land and Switzerland, where he colUAed,
with zeal and taste, objefls of every kind
interesting to arts and sciences Ashe trav
elled with th* simplicity and , economy of a
man of letters, who had emerged from ob
scurity, for the purpose of making cbfer
vationS and acquiring knowledge, he, by
that means, was enabled to reserve his for
tune for important occasions, in which it
might protura him information 011 in.ercft
iag fubjefts. He travelled flowfy, and
frequently on foot, that his obfcr.vstions
might be more minute, and employed part
of his time in suitably arranging them.
These obfervatians formed a valuable col
leftion of interesting matter relative to the
arts sciences, but which has been al
most totally destroyed by the fttry of the
revolulioniPts, who have dans as much pre
judice to the interests of fcienee as of hu
manity.
Returning from his travels, Malefherbes,
for fevtral years enjoyed a philosophic leisure
which he knew how to dire<£l to ufeful and
important objefts. The two most excellent
treatises, which he composed in the year 3
1785 a,u ' 1786, on the civil state of. the
prateftants in France, are wet! k-nown. The
iaw which he proposed in these, was only
preparatory to a more extenfire'reform ; aud
thef« treatises were to have been followed up
by another work,- the plan ef which he bad
already laid down, when affairs growing too
difficult to be managed by those who held
the reins of goverment, they were compell
ed to call him to their councils. They did
not however, assign him merely (as fuble
quent events have (hewn) to cover thcirtran-,
faftionsunder apopular name, and pass them
on the world as afls in which he had taken
part. Malefherbes accepted their overtures
merely to fatisfy the desire he felt to reveal
some ufeful truths ; but it was not for that
purpose, that they had iuvited him to their
councils. Tliofe who presided at them took
umbrage at his to call their attention
to the voice ot truth and wisdom; and suc
ceeded so well in their eppofition, that he
was reduced to the oeceffity of delivering
in writing the counsel which he wished to of
fer. Such was the origin of -two treatises
relative to the calamities of France, and the
means of repairing them. He transmitted
thefc treatises to the king, who never read
them; nor was he ever able to obtain a pri
vate andienc, although a minister of state.
Perceiving the inutility of his endeavors,
disgusted with the repeated errors of the go
vernment, and deprived of every mean* of
exposing them, or preventing theit'fatal ef
fedls; after frequent solicitations he at
length obtained leave to retire. He repair
ed to his estate at Malefherbes, and fromthat
moment entirely devoted his time to those
occupations that had ever formed the chief
pleasure of his life. He gaffed the even
ing, and a great part of the night in read
ing and study.
In this tranquil state he was palling the
evening of his days, amidst his woods and
fields, when an unforefeen event called him
from his retirement. Louis XVI. was
brought to th* bar of the National Assem
bly as a criminal: abandoned by all those on
whom he had farmerly heaped his favours,
he little expeAed ta find a defender in the
man wbomhehad faerificcd to thcirintrigues;
but Malefherbes considered the fallen mon
arch merely at an unfortunate man, and aA
ed promptly from the diAates of his native
benevolence. He offered himfelf as his ad
vocate, and his offer was accepted.
Having difcharf d this painful and haz
ardous duty with firmnefs, moderation, and
fidelity, b* once more returned to his coun
try residence, andrefumed histranquil eourfe
of life. But this tranquility was of fkort
duration. Aboutatwelvemonth afterwards
in tke month of December 1792, three
worthy members of th* revolutionary com
mittee of Paris came to reside with him, his
son in law and his daughter, and apprehend
ed .the latter as criminals. Left alone with
hi°9 grand children, MaleiVerbcs endeavored
to confolethe reft of his unfortunate family
with the hopes which he himfelf was far
from entertaining, when, the next day,
the new formed guards armed to
apprehend hrtn, and the whole of his fami
ly, even the youngest infants. This circum
ftancefpreadagentralconftcrnation through
out the whele department. Four municipal
officers had fnffici*nt courage to offer to him
ro mfurc his fafety, and to accompany him
wi'h hi» family to »■ the Tiumilinting
fight of an armed foe.
In this calamity Maleftirrbes prefervedthe
undiitnrbed equanimity nf virtste. His af
fability and good humor never f«rfook him,
and his conterfatiun was as usual; so that to
have beheld him, (yriilxult noticing his
wretched guard*) it seemed that he vat tra
velling fui hi* | U-afute with hie neighbours
and friends. He was conduced the fame
night to prifen of the Madelonette,
with hit grandfoa, Louis LepeHetier, at the
fame time that hit other grand children were
feparxted into different prisons. This sepa
ration proving extremely afflifting to him,
heearaefUy solicited against it, and at length
on bis repeated entreaties, they all met to
gether once more at Port Libre. They re
mained there but a (hort time. The son in
law of Malefherbes, the virtuous Lcpelletier
Rofambo, 'he firft of them who was arrett
ed, was ordered into another prison, and fa
crificcd a few days after. Malelhcrbes him
felf, his daughter, his grand daughter, and
her hufbarid, were soon sfter brought* to the
guillotine. ' They approached rt with for
titude and serenity. It was then tbyt his
daughtci addressed these pathetic words to
Madrmoifelle S«mbreuil> who had favedthe
life of her own father on the 2d of Septem
ber: " You hi.ve had the exalted honour to
prcfcrve the life of your father—l have, at
least, the consolation to die with mine."
Malefherbes, (till the itait, even to hit
last moments-exhibited to his relations an ex
ample of fortitude. He cenrverfed with the
ps » a that were near him, without be
llowing the lead attention to the brutalities
ef the wretches who tied hit hands. As he
was leaving the prison to ascend the fatal
cart, he tumbled against a (lone, and made
a falfe step. " See," said he, smiling," how
bad an omen! A Roman in my situation
would have been sent back again." He
pa(Ted througl»J > aris, ascended the fcaffold,.
and submitted to death with the fame un
(haken courage. He died at the age of fc
venty two years, four months, and fifteen
days. He had only two daughteis and the
son of one of them atone remains to succeed,
Louis Lapelletier, a young man of the fair
eft premise.
kf/tS HINGTQN LOTT 11.
List of Psizes and Blanks.
155 th Day's J)rawing—December 36.
A'j. Dels. !)o. Dots. No. j&c.'s. No. Dots.
1141 10198 >1285 34059
797 * s*l * 53* 36075
9*4 814 *3,933 B*3
957 "043 * »49.)7 * 37008 x
3=l a 995 15081 706 50
317 13'08 X 27165 838
49S x 14» 971 x ;86j8 x
653 x 600 »Bia» 39645
809 x 610 409 ao 40607 x
4694 14»7'3 70* 41047
50x8 1J347 «3» 537
05; x 4» 859 541 »5
360 45® 30697 4*55° 2°
815 x 611 719 46156
•53 667 licit 975 x
6343 »® 7»6 x 584 47005
Btl 16664 6lj 321
994 17008 3*185 376
966 x 18821 46s 732
7090 x 19039 x 734 908 x
5738 a 1 6 884 X 97a
90*9 506 i 33358 4800S x
©<r 890 Jo 653 555 x
10003 . 9'3 ' 899 594
059 " 934 x 3404 a x
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON Ssf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jaanic.ißum, "> entitled to
ift and ad proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine.
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
FfS. q. eodff
Flay . Seed tor sale.
to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 45, South Third-flreet.
January 27 * 4
To Persons desirous of inverting
money to great advantage.
AN op-portunity i< offered to purchase a very
valuable concern 111 certain Land«-(fituatcd
in the DiftriA of Main®) which were conveyed to
William Bingham. Esq. by the Commonwealth of
Maflachufstts, 011 the eßrh January, 179J, and
which are at prefeLt h«)d by Mr. Bingharc, Mefliri
Hope and Co. of Amfcrdam, and M\fiVs. Baring
and Co. of London.
Particulars refpeding the lands, and terms of
the present sale, will be made kaowa by applying
at the office of this Gazette.
February 9. §itjawtf
NO T I C E.
A LI. persons indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the Diitridl of Soathwark, deceased,
are requefled to make immediate payment6o eirher
of the SuMcrib?r>; and those who have any de
mands again l\ said crtate, are requeued to bring in
their accountsdnly attested. to
Jtkn Murphy, "1 jj'
Piter Scravendylc,' >
Thomas Farrell, J torS '
January 16. 'awiwtw
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cernej jf
Second jind Chefnut ftretts,
(Pried 3- %tbi of a dollar)
Observations on certain Documents
Toa'ained in No. V and VI «f
" I'hc History of the United States for
th«; year i 796,"
In which the ch-iroi oi speculation asfainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SccftETART cf the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise flatentnt of
the bafc meac» - praAifcd by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperftf the chara&er* cf tKofe
persons who are cutofidered ae hoAile their difor
aanizirg fchenaes. It also dontcins the correfpon
4encc between Mr. Hamilton ami Meffr*. Monroe,
MuLleobirg atid Veaable, on the fuhjeA of the
documentt and a fcriea of Ittters from
Jaxty*.-3 Reynolds arfd his wife to Mr. Hamilton,
proving beyond the,f oflibility cf a doubt, thitthe
eor.nt&icn aod Reynold* was the re
fultof a daring coijfpiracy on the part of the lat
ter and Lit afiociato to txtort umney.
A difconnt of on« third from th« retail
price will be made in hivor of wholcfik purcha
sers, for cash. Ordqrj 53 be addrcllad to
Youao.
Feb.Jtsi .tr 9.
CONGRESS. |
" 1
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURIBAY FI«HtIA«T 8.
The house being in the Committee ©r the
whole, o» the Report of the Committee
•f Privilege*, Mr. Oent ia the chair,
Mr. S. Smith said, he did pat wiflito
enter into a difiOffiou of the fubje& before
them. The committee had heard the evi
dence upon lhi> fubjeft very fully, and he
doubted not every one was in full possession
•f the facia relative to it, and competent to
come to a decision. To go into a difcuflion
ef the fubjeft, therefore, would be a«
unnecessary confiimption of tine, as it
would not, he apprehended, change the o
pinion of any one. He hoped, therefore,
the question would be taken, without de
bate.
Mr. R. Williams did not mean to in
troduce a debate on tbii fubjeft, but merely
to (late the reafom which had induced him
in the feleft committee, and whieh would
induce him in ihit committee, and in the
House, to vote again'ft this Report. He
was as fully irilprcffed as any gentleman with
the neccffity of prcferving the digniiy and
honour of the house, and perfectly agreed
with gentlemen as to the propriety of an at
tention to order and decorum in all their
proceedings. But it appeared to him that
there was a previous confideratioa necessary.
It was necessary firft to conlider how far
the powers ef the house extended with rtf
peft to pu.'iifhiog its members, and whether
certain afts should be considered as done in
[ the house or out of it. When these gener
al principles were fettled, it would be easily
afeertaiaed haw far this power would ex
tend in the present cafe. He was of opin
ion that the powers of the house should be
eautioufly extended. This, be thought,
would be the opiniol of every member of
the eomOiittee, when they coafidered the na
ture and principles upoq which our laws
were founded, among# which it is a princi
pal feature, that the makers of a law frail
not have execution of it; another is, that all
offences (hall be declared by law, before s
ny person (hall be charged with coalmining
them. The laws are published, and Jnd
ges arc bouad down by rule, and every man
knows the law; but how is it m the present
cafe? The House of Reprcfentatives is the
injured party, the members are the Judges,
the Jurors, and the Exesutioaeis. He did
not mention this bteaufe he thought the
power of pur:idling its members was imylo
perly placed in tln'ir own body; he mention
ed it only to (hew, that the power was liable
to abufc from giving too much way to paf
fioo io,their proceedings.
Having made these remarks, he would
state, why he thought the bouse had not
the power to expel the member from Ver
mont. He did not believe that a member of
the Legislature could be expelled for any aft
done out of the House, except it rendered
him infannyis —Mere lewdnefs, and breach
es of morjlity committed out of the House
the House sould not take cognizance of.
A member, out of the house, may do things
whichmayrenderhini very tofo
ciety, yet he may come into the House and
behave very orderly. His constituents
might have kuown, when they eleficd him
that be was fubjeft to fach behaviour, yet
they might have fufSeieat confidence in him
as a Representative 011 that floor; but if a
ny member afted so as to disturb the peace
and order of the House, they had, doubt
less, a right to turn him ouc.
Having mentioned what he conceived to
be the«powera of the House, he would con
sider whether the aft done by the member
from Vermont could be considered as done
in the House, or in violation of its rules. If
he could persuade himfelf that it was done
when, the house was in order, in violation of
its rule, he should have no hesitation in fay
ing, the member ought to be expelled ;
fißce he fhculd take no notice of cj Sen five
words which had'been mentioned in jultifi
cation, for though this circumstance might
have cunfiderable weight with fame gtr.tie
'.en, it would have none with him. In the
rules for the regulation of the proceedings
of the House, it wa3 declared, that when
ever the House meets, the Speaker (hall take
the chair at the hour to which the House
had adjourned. But where, he asked was
'he Speaker, when the aft complained of,
was committed, and what was the fitnation
of the House at the time ? He did not mean
to fay that the Speaker, or any other mem
ber was not doing his duty, but to (hew that
the House was not in order. The Speaker
had left his feat, and was in that of another
member; and the members were palling to
and from different parts of the House. So
that if even it could be considered in such a
situation a3 that the rules of the House
would apply to it, some allowance ought to
be made to members who might think dif
ferently. But certainly no motion could
have been dated to the House in this situa
tion.
If the house had been organized,, the
Speaker could not ha»efuffcred fuchconver
fation as has been Hated to have taken place
before him. A braach of order, in such a
situation of things, therefore, could not de
serve expulfio|i. BeGdes, this tranfa&onhap
pened without the bar of the House which
according to the praftice vhicb had existed
since he had had a feat there, was never
considered as within the House, as ae mem
ber who was standing there when any que
stion was taken, was permitted to vote. And
he thought there was a great difference
betwixt a disorderly aft done in the House
and one done out of it. Two members
walking without the bar of the House, might
insult each other in a variety of ways, with
out disturbing the business of the House and
in such a cafe, he did not thing that they
would be liable to be expelled. If this were
so, it might be said members could not walk
together ; he did not fee this, for though
he would not agree to aa cxpulfion in faeh
a cafe, lit; thoiild think it J Cr io pusifh
the offender.
Mr. W. thought the cor.ftitution was
clear on this fubjeft. A bare majority may
punish a member, but the constitution has
declared that two-thirds of the members
present are neeeffary to expel a member.
The power of expullion is the higheti pu
nilhment the House can infiiit ; indeed it
is a punishment which not only goes to the
person and chara&rr of the member hiru
iein but it also affefts all the lutizens <Jf a
large diftrift of tountry, his constituents.
Being therefore to serious a power, as he
before Sated, it ought not ta be extended.
Trie House, has bo power over members out
of the House. If two members were to
quarrel and infnlt each other, out of the
Houfe,the House could take no cognixaaae
of the affair, except on a complaint made,
and in that safe, the offender could not be
expelled, but might be puoifhed. Snppofe
for instance, a meiaber of the House, and
aa individual who is aot a member were
ts quarrel out of the House, could the mem
ber coae to the house and complain of the
individual Vvb® is not a member ? Certainly
not, (ince the House had no power aver
that individual. Nor would * member be
pratefted from arrest 3nd process, were he
to commit any violent aft out of the House
which should make him liable to fueh a
process. He mentioned these inltaaccji to
Blew, that the House iftd not a right to ex
tend their privileges, but only to p rot eft
then.
These were the reasons, Mr. W. said,
whieh indueed him to think the member
from Vermont ought not ta be expelled;
not because he approved of his conduft, or
that the insult which he states to have beea
offered to him as warranting the improper
manner in which he resented it; not because
the house had not the power to expel it*
members, but because it was not in such a
fituatitm at the time as to authorize an ex
puUion for the offence, and that therefore
the perfoa offeudiiig/lid not know that any
such conference as an expulSon could be
punishment to which he was liable- But
though he was ajjainft an expylfion, jj C
ihould be in favour of fueh a punifliment ns
the House would have deemed proper, if
the offence had been committed without the
walls of the house.
Mr. W. said, there was another eircunt
ftanee which ought to be noticed. No*
application was made for the punishment of
this offence by the person offended ; but it
was taken up as a breach of the order of
the house.
Mr. Nbw hoped the question would be
taken without farther debate, as fufficient
time bad already been spent upon this fub
jeS.
Mr. Harper believed the candderations
upon which the vote now abont to be taken
presented themselves in fnch flrong colour*
to the minds of the members of this'com
mittee, and they would also fhoitly appear
so to the minds of the whole country, that
it sould not be neeeffary togo iKto a lengtby
discussion.on tlje testimony whieh had been
given 5 urn" was it neeeffary to go into an
answer to what hadifallen from the gentle
man from the gemieman from N. tarolina.
■Nothing more 'jiras wanted <m the preftnt
occasion, thai) t'ocall.the recolleaion-of the
committee to the following, which he took
te"bc the leading circftinftan'ces cafe.
■ . First, that a personal outrage of the very
groffeftand most indecent nature has Keen
committed by one member of the hcuffc u
pon another—an outrage which would not
hnve been tolerated it) any- tavern in the
country ; a perfoncomirmtisg which., would
have heen turned out of any eompauy, how.
ever little entitled to be called petite or gen
teel ; in no faciety could it have happened
without drawing upon it the contempt o<"
every fane present. This outrage was com
muted in the presence of the house, and in
the face of its deliberations. This had been
denied, and upon this ground the defence
is retted. But he asked if the house had not
beea called to order by the Speaker ; and
if it had, whether it had been adjourned >
It certainly had been called to order, and
had not been adjourned, and was therefore
ia leffion, Cnceit could not get out of that
Hate, w.thout an adjournment ; and tho'
it is true, that the Speaker bad left his
chair, y_t any member might have called
him so it, and introduced any motion to
the house. Besides he asked, whether count
ing the ballots for managers of the impeach
ment againll Mr. Blount, was not bufineft
of the house ? Or was it not the bufiitefs
of the house to read communications from
the President or tlir Heads of Departments''
It certainly was ; yet it was very common!
during the reading of such communications
for the Speaker ta leave his chair, and
members their feats. If the members of
the house were to be protested whilll ther
were engaged in one kind of business, and
not in another, it would be proper to make
a discrimination on the fubjea, and to fay,
what it the kind of bulinefs, in the tranf
adion of which its members fliall be pro
tested. r
But it was said, this affray happened
without the bar, and that the eognirancc
ot the house did not extend there. If this
were the cafe, any disorder might be com",
muted with impunity in the lobby or gal.
leries. Did not gtitflcmer* used to attend
Courts of Jiiftice know that the power of
j such Courts extended without as well a«
within the bar ? Is one spot upon this floor,
said he, more the-houfe than the other ?
Ceriainly not. For if the oppafite doftrine
were true, no member would be liable to be
expelled, except he were to come icto the
J'-jM of a member and give him a blow.
But it was said, the Speaker ought t©
have called the members to order who were
cor.rerling in the disorderly manner wliicji
had been stated j and because he failed ta
do so, it was said to be a proof that he did
not consider the house in order. But, if
j the Speaker had forgotten that the hoine 1
[ W4S Jn session ; or, if hj had doßewro»£in leaving His feat, (which he by ao meaas
thought) these circuirtftanees d«d not put,
the houfc out of session ; for, if one me.u
bct were to knock another dawn, and the
Speaker did not call to order, face the houfc
once formed cannot he diflolved without a
formal vote, the houfc would not be less in
session than if the ft ri Ac ft order had bceu
kept.
Mr. H. said, lie ftould, like the gentle
man-from N. Carolina, omit noticing the
I provpeation said to be given to the geatlc-
I mail from Vermont. He believed that was
out of the question ; because, if the a &
complained of, had been in confequrnce of
a blow received, he would have had both
the gentlemen expelled ; or if the gentle
man from Omne&icut had given way to his
feelings and struck the membtr from Ver
mont to his feet, in return for the insult he
had received, in that cafe, he ftiould have
been Tor involving both in one sentence.
For, if this rule was oner departed from,
and provocation was to be set up as an apol
ogy for outrage, every person would be left
to judge in his own caufeas to the fufficien
cy c?f provocatioa. Thediftin&ionbet ween
viords and as perfotal attack, is a diftiac
tion r-ell understood. No language could
be fufficiently provokingto warrant a blow.
In well bfed society, when a man receives
an affront, does he knock down tfee person
giving it ? No ; he reprefTe# his feelings,
«Hid*Trtke> another time and place to obtain
jo ft Joe. And except the members of that
houfc were to conduct themselves in this
manner, they prostrate the barriers
which protes«<d-decency of condu& among
them. He could not, therefore, believe
that any poflible provocation could eitheir
juftify or mitigate the adt of the gentleman
from Vermont. Indeed, if tbe provoca
tion was to be looked into, it would be
found to be all on the other fide.
From these confederations, he was so con
vinced of the propriety of agreeing to the
resolution before the committee,that he wa6
furprifedhow any perfoh could doubt a m - j
ment on the x fubje&. Indeed, if the cir-i
cumftdnce had happened without, instead of
within the walls of the house, he fhoulid
have thought it right to have expelled the
offender, as be held it to be one of those
anions which rendered a man unworthy of
a feat in that house.
A confidcrable cry for the question was
made.
Mr. Nic+iolas fa- he was willing to
have taken the quek. 11 upon this fubjeft,
without debate ; but it would be very im
| proper, indeed, to fuffer the observations
which had been made to pass without t no
tice. As it was too late in the day to en
ter upon a reply, he moved that the com
mittee might rife.
The committee rose and had leave to' fit
again..
The honfe having resumed, Mr. Sit
grbaves moved that the evidence which
had been, given to the committee, be prin
ted.—Agreed.
m Fjliday, February 9.
The Speaker laid before the house a commu
nieation from tfco fee ret ary *f the treasury in-
a fiat ero.cn t of the atniwfct of «U-as»haek* |
paid on d»r»aMe articles for the yiear 1796, a-'
grerah'y so a refrlurion of the house of the 3d of ;
Jlarrh 1707, which was ordered to be printed.
Mr. Thatcher reported a bill granting the
/ifcht to the attorney general of the Unied 1
States, of finding and receiving letters and pack*
ets, free ofpoftage, which as committed for
j Monday.
Mr.; Harper moved that the report of the com
roittee of revifai.und unfinifhed bufmefs, on the
fubjeA of copy of which he
found laid upon hi* delk this morning, be re
ferred to the ccmß)i[Ue cf ways and means.—
Agreed.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of claims,
made 4n unfavourable report on the petiton of 1
Ahrahnra Jones,vwHfao prsyed frr additional com*
penfatioa during the war. Concurred in by the
house.
Mr. Harper prefentfd the petition of Timo
thy Winters, an ©W foidier, praying for a pen
fien. — Referred fothe committee of claims.
Mr. Livingflon, from the committee ef com
merce and manufaltares, made a report on the
petition of sundry proprietors and workers of
real mines, in the ftateof Virginia, who prayed
for a prohibition of the importation of coals-, or
an increase of duty, on that their
mines are fufficient for the cenfumption of the
United States. The committee report, that as
; voal is every day becoming more an article of
* the tfrit necessity, they do not think it would be
right to comply with the prayer of the petition,
especially as tie doty paid on exportation in
England rs taual to the firft cost of the coal,
an i a •duty of five cents a bushel is already paid
on its importation into this country.—Commit
ted for Monday.
The fame gentleman prefeated a petition from
the coach and chair-makers New-York, stat
ing that notwithstanding the duly which had
| been laid on the importation of carriages, they
are yet imported without duty, by the persons
exporting then. Rating that they are second
hand; they pray, therefore, for a remedy of
this grievance. Referred so the committee of
of commerce and manufactures. r
Mr. Matthews presented the petition cf A
braham Millen, ia behalf of a claim due to his
brother William. Referred to the committee
j ef claims.
Mr. Harper said, he was under the uereffity
of perforroiag a very disagreeable duty ; '.t was
a duly, however, which he found hintfelf'bonad
•to perform, since no other member had thought
-proper to undertake it. It must be recollected,
he faid»>y many members cf that house, that
the member from Vermont, whose very ex'raor
dinary rondod has been for some time the fub
jetft of dii'cwflion, ycfterdav, at the c*nelyfion of
jiis defence, made use of an exprtifion so outra
geoua, so gross, and indecent, thst gentle
men yet hid Icen able tc repeat it ; and if this
exprefficn could have been buried in silence, he,
for one, fltotiki have been in favour/ of its heing
fobuiied; but, unfortunately, this could not
be the ci/e, it had net only been h&fd by ma
ny of the members, hrt* kw many strangers ; and
he was authorised to fay, it was about to ap
pear in cue of the public gazette* of this city.
1 At it could not, therefore, be kept from public
view it was neotflary to take furh notice of it,
as it deferred. Before he made it the fubjelt of
a resolution, he lhould move 14 that the chair
man of the committee oi the whole, who heard
it, be requeued to Hate precife'y, in writing,
the expreff;on, and the t'*ie, piace, and manner
it- '.?hich it was utterrd:" He <tid not wilh to
f»ul the gentleman to ths r-ainful ta?s cf rep;at
l»g it ; he w .hcil o-.ly thai Le rtiould Hate it iu
W " ri,ia P-
Mr. I^rut (aid it would nit be in hi* power
to ftat* the precise cap-*lsan f as he did «'»t
h«*ar the iirft part of the Sentence. It was true
he hearj the os*entive erm.
Mr Harper Uoped he would state the oPen
fivc and ihe tiuae ar4 manner of using it
The juefhon for.req»i*{!mg the chairman to
put the offc;<five to writing, was
carried 4a to 41
Mr. /ent accordingly prefected the oflfenfive
wos ds to the chair ; which, without being read,
was referred to the committee of the whole to
whom was referred the report of the committee
of privileges. The queflien for this re ereuce
was carried by the caftjng vote of the i'peaker,
there being 43 votes for it, and 43 votes agiinft
it.
The house # hen again resolved itfclf into a
committee of the whole on the report of the
committee of privileges Mr Dent in tire chair,
when a long debate ensued, which was opened
by Mr. Shepard, in favour of the reJ'dution.—
He was followed by Mr. Nicholas againfl it
Mcffrs. Otis, Ifutledge and Sitgreaves followed
in favour of the resolution- TheUtttrgentleman
moved to add to the resolution, as an arne d
ment, " and for the gro/s indecency of language
made use of m bis defence before the committee oj
the whole." This amendment was agreed to,
after some debate 48 to 43-
The amendment being incorporated wi h
the resolution, Mr. Gallatin fpokc againk
agreeing to it as amended.
Mr. Morris (of Vermont) only rose to ob
serve that the member from Vermont ( Mr. Ly
on) in tlte courl'c of his defence of yefterdav,
stated that on a former octafion he was irifulred
by a fenVor from Vermont (Mr
who gave his test mony before this committee,
and that he had chastised that gentleman for it-
It is my duty to declare that this assertion is ab
solutely falfe—That 1 havfe the hoanr of the
senator's.acquaintance for many years—that he
is highly rel'pe<sled in his own country as ajjen
tleman of learning, abilities and integrity—that
he was an officer in the American army, saw
atfual service, and acquitted himfelf like a brave
man-
There seemed to be a great desire, very loud
ly exprrfled, that the quefuon should be takea
before the committee rose ; but Mr. Sswall and
Mr. Rutledge, both appearing to have a desire
to speak to the fubj«tf, and it being near four
o'clock, the committee rose* and had leave te
fit again.
Just before the committee rpfe, the chairman
informed the committee he had received a let
ter from Mr. Chipman, of the fen ate, in confe
quenre of what had fallen from Mr. Lyon, in
his defence of yefterd ty. The letter was re
quefled to be read, and wis as follows :
SIR,
I feel it my duty, in this public manner, to vin
dicate myfeif against fn unwarranted attackon my
charaiier, by Mr. Lyon, yesterday, in the house
of reprcfentatives—l learn that he there asserted
that he had once chastised me publicly f«r an af
front which I had given him.—This aflfertiop. of
Mr. Lyon's is without foundation—lt is falfe—
Nor can I eonje&ure to what eircumftance Mr.
Lyon could have alluded, unless it might be a lu
di.rdustrarifadion, which took place at Weit*nin
fter, in the ftateof Vermont, in the beginning df
the year 178 c, the circumflanc/s of which I beg
leave to relate, The legislature of Vermont were
in f»flion at that place—Mr. Lyon attended as a
member—! attended on business—-The house ol
representatives, requeued me; tho* not a member,
to examine and report my opinion concerning cer
tain debts due from persons whose estates had been
confiscated—l had made a report accordingly, at
some part of which Mr. Lyon took offence. One
morning Mr. Lyon called at Mr. Bradley's room,
in wh eh I was then doing bafinefs. No person
wa« m the room but Mr. Brfatey, Mr. Lyon and
myfeif- Mr Bradley and I fat waiting at opposite I
fides of a taMe. Mr. Lyon took a feat by thfc ta
ble at the fide of Mr Bradley, and entered into
eonverfarion upon the fubjeel of the report ahov#
mentioncd--*He soon discovered himfelf to be some
what irritated, and in a very rude and pointed
manner declared that ao man who had a spark of
henefty could have reported as 1 had done. At
tacked in this rude maoner, i retorted, in a pas
Con, that he was an Ignorart Iri/h Puffy. Mr. Ly
on rose in a violent paflion, grafprd at my hair,
that was turned back with a cotnh, whrch he broke
in the grasp—l was at that moment mending a pen
I instantly refe, intending to revenge the mfu't
with the knife in my hand ; hut Mr. Bradley had
Mr. Lyon from behind, round the arm*, and drew
him bask a little, upon which Mr. Lyoa, bearing
himfelf in Mr. Bradley's arm«, threw his feet upon
the table, to kick across. The aukward appear
ancfc of Mr. Lynn at thismomevt, and the grima
ces of his countenance provoked me to laugh. I
dropt the penknife, seized Mr. Lyon's feet, ond,
in this manner, with the hejp of Mr. Bradley,
who (tillhept his hold.carried him across thero m
and laid him on his hack in a corner— Mr. Bradley
and I returned to our feats, laughing very merrily
at thefceue. In the mean time Mr. Lfon rose from
his corner, flood a fhorttime in apparent agitation,
and without uttering a word. At length, he turn
ed upon his heel, with thefo expretfions— ,4 Damn
it, I will not be maf—forced a laugh, and left the
room. Nothing ever afterwaids pasTed between
Mr Lyon and myfclf upon thr* fubjedt. I there
fore repeat, that Mr. Lyon's aiTertion is w holly
without foundation.
I ask pardon for the trouble I have given the
house upon this business,
And am, with refpe<ft, Sc.c.
NATHANIEL CHIPMAN.
The Chairman of the C«.mmitte upon the
report of the Committee of Privileges.
The house having resumed, Mr. Livingfion asked
Obtained leave of absence for his colleague Mr.
Van Cottlandt, for eight days.—The debate of to
day will be given on Moniay. Adj.
——www— I'm
WILMINGTON, February 8.
DIED.] —On the 4th inft. at his feat
near Dover, of a'confumption, THOMAS
SIPPLE, Efqire, Treasurer of the State.
—The premature death of this excellent
man has deprived the commumtv of a mod
valuable citizeo. His attention to the du
ties of his office; his pun&uality in difcher
ging the public engagements; his civility
and complaisance to those with whom his
official situations connected him; and his at
tachment to the constitution vof his country
united all men, and all parties, in the Lr
giflature, annually in appointing him to a
station which he filled with fomuchapplnufc.
In his private life he was not less amiable
and ufeful. The poor and the distressed al
ways found in hiui a bountiful and generous
aflitUnce; and the humanity of his heart en
circled .every child of misfortune. In Lie
still more intimate, and dearer, connexions,
the fincereft love of his relations, and the
warmest attachment of his numerous friends,
gave the most unquestionable proof of the
tenderness and bet:e?olcncc of a difpolltion
cultured by the precepts of morality and te-
K&foo.
/ J* fit. "t f
. " . ' . s
p H.i ladelp hi a , j;
SATURDAY EVENWO, V£3JTJ4ftT 10. I -
L AW or the IJ SITED ST A TES.
;
Fifth Clflgreft of the Uf.ited States : f
AT THE SECOND SKWIO*,
Begun aad held at the CHty of Philadelphia, '
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon-
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and oinety-feven.
AN ACT {;
For the relief of John Frank.
BE it tnaSed by the Senate and House of j*
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That the ac
comptant for the Department of War be,
and he is hereby dire fled to fettle the ac- J
counts of John Frank, late a private in the
sub-legion of the army of thr United States,
and to allow him the fame pay and emolu- C
mentt at a soldier from the nineteenth day °
of August one thousand seven hundred and V
ninety-four, during the time ®f his captivi- 11
ty, as he would have been entitled to, had '
he nat been discharged from the public fer- f
tica before he was made prisoner by the in- ,
dians. 11
JONATHAN DAYTON.
Speaker of tU House of Reprefmtatives 3
TH : JEFFERSON, *
Vite President of the United States
and President of the Senate.
Ur.ited States ")
January 20, 1798. j c
Approved
JOHN ADAMS,
PrefiJcnt of the United Statet.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
tke Department of State. al
Ti moth t Pickering, Secretary ef State. S
The elcdion for Senator for the DiftriA
of Philadelphia, See. will he held on Thurs
day the 22d inflant.
' r ' J
For the Gazette as the United States.
One Renege do it tvorfe than Urn Turks.**
MR. CO IT
came forward to day with a defence for Ly- g
on broad enough to juftify ot excuse all the
indecency and insult he hat already been
guilty of, and all he can possibly hereafter
cmaamit. Lyon in the caurfr ofWt defence
of the contempt and outrage now charged f;
ahd proved againfl him, instead of exhibit- ■]
ing that deep fenfeof ffiame >and contrition d
hit conduft calls for, expressed himfelf with h
fleady and unchaaging impudence and dif- I
regard to that decency and order he had so n
grossly violated ; and concluded his de
fence with an observation couched in lau- 1 ; s
guage, that would have procured him an
iuftantaneous kicking from any decent com- £
pany, and an" expHlfion from any modefl a
' body. When the house was called upon to 1
resent this language, too indelicate ever' to
be stated, or as Mr. Dayton observed to h
be found in the mouth of any gentleman,'' f,
Mr. Coit endeavored in vain by hit vote to 0
preveot its coming into notice at all. But ! b
as this point was carried againfl him, he tl
flood up, in the committee of the whole, tl
the rnoft extravagant advocate for Lyon, h
that has appeared in the whole course c f the -
enquiry. He stated that the house ought
for its own dignity to presume Mr. Lyon let fait
the off five exprefftons from inadvertency and
hajle. Lyon rises to deliver a premeditated,
prepared and written speech, which he con
cludes with a grofß and vulgar insult te the
house, and every gentleman in it; spoken a
in a loud, audible and diflihfl voice, heard o
in the gal'ery and to the utmost extremes w
of the Hall: and yet Mr. Coit would ex- e
cufe and pass this affront by in filenor as an w
inadvertence-, and this too, forth e dignity as e
the house. Pray why (hould not Mr. Grif- tl
wold, for his dignity presume Lyon spit in si
hit face by inadvertency ? And whyfhould h
notvthe house excuse that offence on the e.
fame ground ? It would be much more r<-a- ii
fonable than in the last cafe. Thit affront '1
to Mr. Grifwold was given in a heated and g
hasty personal altercation ; the lafl i* a pre- tl
meditated defence. If such extenuations o
are to be admitted, order and decency are b
done away, " and chaos it come again." f<
Mr. Coit it probably ambitious to defervc |<
and receive anether applauding and congrat
ulatory addrefsfrom the democratic papers, tl
on his return home ;* at it was by fruftrat- a
ing and embarraßing the views of federal a
men and federal measures, he acquired it at t.
the lafl feflion : or perhaps he feels grateful I
to Mr. Lyon, forcxcepting him from the p
chargft of corruption he htaptd on the t
Connecticut delegation j and kindly prom- n
ifing that when he {lull fe* about to turn t
out the representatives front that. Hate, h»
will spare Mr. Coit from the general ruin, f
and permit him to come again. It is high- g
ly gratifying, that not a single federal man a
joined Mr. Coit in this extraordinary de- c
fence, and even some of the democrats were
ashamed of it. Certain it it, he has goae c
beyond the worfl of them ia eflablifhing a <
(landing defence for all indtcency, and in t
exculpating Lyon's offence in the firfl as 1
well as the lecond in fiance. <
DECUS.
Feb. 9th, '9B.' 1
PRICE OF SHOCKS.
Feb, J. I /uS.
Sis Fer SLentv ibfi
I i'iirce per C#nt* *cy}j
I Deferred 6 per Cent. I Vy
I BANK United States, 10
i - -■-- ■ eMi(}lvaHU, a; per cent,
j 1 ' ' Korth
-1 Infurancc C<» Pen:»lyiv.una, 20
—■ - " "N. A. fli.ires 41 dividend off.
Married, on Thnrfday evening bit, by
the Re*. Mr. IMick, Captain Hammitt, of
the ship Patriot, to Mist Nancy W*rntr t of
tliis city.
In St. PuuPs Ciiurch, Difcoarfet trill
be delivered to-morrow, in favour of tlie ,
poor, and charitable contributions made.
N.tOXWAL IUVKOKEMZNtS.
The Sublcriber, late captain of the brig
Nancy of this port, having in a voyage to
the Welt-Indies, experienced the Jalutary ;
effeSt of a patent machine, for ventilating
the holds of (hips at sea, invented by Mr.
Benjamin Wynkoop, and conllructed in said
brig ; doth certify, that the said machine,
worked by the moyon of the vrfTcl at sea,
forced a conftaut current of pure air into
the hold, from whence the foul air was there
by expelled, that the seamen were ttmark
ably healthy, when the crews ef molt of
the other veffclt, at the port where the said
brig discharged her cargo, were veryfickly
and ma.iy of them died, no difagrteablc
smell was perceived from the provilions or
bilge water—the vessel's Sores and particu
larly the liquors, were better preserved and
cooler than common, and the paint in the
cabin not difcgloured as usual in Well-1 nd a
voyages. As a friend to trade and naviga
tion, the Subscriber thinks it is his duty,
to recommend this machine to general us»,
and from the fails as stated above, he fully
believes it may be the means of preferring
the timber »f (hips, and their perilhable
cargoes, from the definitive effedls of foul
air, confined in the holds of ships, and of
contributiug to thf health and comfort of
the paflengers and seamen on board.
HENRY GEDDES.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The following outward bound veflels lay
at Marcus Hook piers yesterday morning.
Ship William Penn, Jofiah, 'for Londou
» Molly, Hodge, Liverpool
Deborah, Yard, St. Domingo
Harmony, Wellington, Jamaica
Venus, Felt, New-York
BrigGi Washington, Devereaux, - Salem
Ariel, Gardner, St. Croix
Fame, Knox, do.
Jane, Watts, Port-au-Prince
Susannah, Medlin, Amsterdam
Abigail, Babcock, Belfafl
Schr. Dispatch, Barry, Cork
President, Stites, Port-au-Prince
Jane, Conyngham, Havannah
The ships Sally Butler, Chifholm, A
lexander Hamilton, Potts, and tw? bVTgs
said to be the Pully, Makin, and Tryal,
Talbot, pafftd the Hook late on Wednes
day evening, and the (hip Edward, Wicjc
ham, with several others the fame morning.
The brig A&ive, Baker, for St- Tho
mas's left New Caflle on Wednesday.
The brig Cerfs, Nicholas, for Curacoa;
is ashore on Tinicum fplt.
The ship Venus, Felt, and brig Hannah,
Hammond,'that were ashore before are off
and went into the piers ac Marcus Hook on
Thursday.
The snow Liberty, Ellerfon, (late Wal
lace) «>f thisport, is 101 l on her pafTage home
fom AUx-Cayes. The captain and several
of the crew, after being 19 days in an open
boat, fell in with the brig George, in which
they have arrived at Norfolk. Three of
the men who left the brig in another boat,
have not been heard of.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTONTFeb. 3.
CONFLAGRATION.
Yesterday afternoon, about four o'clock,
a fire broke out in one of the drefling-rooms
of the Theatre in FederaUflrcet—and such
was the height of the flames before discover
ed. and such the nature of the cembuftiblcs
which they firfl took hold of, that 110 ex
ertions of several of the attendants of the
theatre could check theirprogrefs; and be
fore seven o'clock the intire inside of per
haps the mod elegant building in the Unit
ed States was totally destroyed—nothing be
ing left unconfumed but the brick walls.—
The property loft on this occasion is very
great ; but fortunately such was the (late of
the wind, and the a&ivity and intelligence
of the citizens present, that the adjacent
buildings, though all of them of "wood, and
fame of them very near, were not in ths
lead damaged.
We have taken some pains to ascertain
the eaufe of the deflruttion—Rumour, ever
adlive, and almost forever erroneous, readily
attributed it to a rthearfalof the Jhm-iuorls
to b* exhibited in the pantomine of Don
Juan; but we have, from the evidence of
persons on the fjpot, ascertained, that it is
to be attributed wholly to accident; or the
negligence of the fervaut whofeduty it waa
to watch the fires in the drefling-rooms.
Only one share of the property was in
sured; when we contemplate the ele
gance of the bnildißg—the beauty of the
architeflure and other ornaments, we mifll
deplore the loss as a public injury.
Great credit is due to our worthy fellow
citizens of Charlejlotvn, Roxbury,Dorchejicr,
Cambridge, and other idjicetit towns, for
their indefatigable aftivity in aftifling to flop
theprogreftofthe flames which on the firfl dis
covery were alarming, and which with al
mofl auy other people, would have tarried
definition far and wide.
NEW-YORIJ, Jtwisrv ?}
Ycilrrda'y two mast fellows were •
! nio<rJ on fiifpicKm j( tf»L- robbery of \ ••
1 eniplr j houfd ; one of wiiuin js -fuT'pofvd
to he him who acted as rnnfter of th." '■»*
0;i 'Jjnd-iy lult, ihi following gentiemrtl
were chofcu Directors *sf the Oaitcd lufui.
ancc C/inpaijj? cAy, for thr
year:
Nicholas IxiiA*, Jo! m I3rlafirld, LVntcl
Ludlow, John Shaw, William
1 li.imit BuJi.inan, Cornelius Ray, Dviicl
M'Cormick, Robert Lenox, fohn B. Cole*,
Chailet Smith, Edward Goold, Williara
M. Setoff, William Laight, John Murray
William Minturn, N. Oou*cmeur,
Nicholas Low, Esq. was afterwards una
niiaoaflyeietted Prelidyit ofthis inftitutior 4
Received by the frig Chatham,ft am Jamoita.
" ' KineSon, JDec. 2V
The pri»»tecr brig Maria of Tortolt,
which oat into Port-Royal in distress ye
llerday, has had a severe afiion with a brig
of 14 and a schooner of 11 giirrt, in -Which
her marts, rudder and jib-boom hare been
greatly damaged.
Between the NivafTa and the east end of
the Island, the Sovereign saw a brig,,v»hicK
proved to be Nancy from New-York, hard
pulhed by a French schooner. Capt. Ayl
waid made all fail to come up with thrin,
which he f»on did, and an afiioii took place
—The following account has been handed
to us by 1 paflVnger;
i<S;h December, at noon, a brig two
miles ahead, (landing for u>.
19th —Ai 5 in the afternoon, came up
with the chafe, ihe proved to be an Amer
ican brig from New-York, bound to King
ston. At a quarter pad 5 a French pr'r»a
teer begas to engage us on the larioart 1
quarter; hove to, and after two hours aft
on, Ihc sheared off, very much fluttered;
and 10 7 men. Capt. Aylward, Mr- Ca
fey, (2d officer) and several people danger
ously wounded. At BA. M. Cafey breath
ed his lall; at 10 committed his body to tho
deep, attended with the usual ceremonies.—
At noon the cast part of Jamaica W. S. W.
3 or 6 leagues.
When the privateer that engaged the So
vereign bore away, they called out that
their captain and several men were killed.
r Moutcgo Bay, Jan. 13.
Last Thursday fe'night arrived at Port
Royal, the Roebuck Packet, Capt. Ser
vante, in 48 days from Falmouth.
A letter by the Packet mentions, that
his majesty has been pleased, of the repre
sentation of the agent of this island, to di
rest that the free ports in Jamaica be open
ed to the Spaniards, notwithftandiog the
war. » ...
NEW-THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
FEBRUARY 10.
Will be prcfented (for the third and- las time) a
Tragedy, in three aSs, called,
FENELON)
OR, TH£ NUNS OS HUMBSAT,
To which will be added, the Comit Oppera cf
THE HIGHLAND REEL.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; rind Gallery, half a Dollar.
£j" The doors of the Thjatre will open at.five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places lor the Roie« to he uken at the Ofiice is
the froftt of the Theatre, from 10 till 4 «Y'ock,
and from 10 till 4 on the day of *wf-»ftfmnce.
Mr. FRANCIS
RF^PECIFULI.Y infonrs tke lubferiberj to
hi« Select Bails, that the last of tho prdent Sub
fcriprion will be on Ttitfiay, the 13th.
Subscription ar.d Ladies' rickets, to be had hy
application to Mr. Fraacis, No. 70, M»rth Eighth
fcreet. » Feb. 10-
eO" The Fire Work announced
for this evening, is postponed to Tuesday next
13th inft. ' *
And in addition, a furpriGng CHILD, uiile years
old, w.ll execute a Cor*ert, composed by
Pleycl, o* the Forte Piar< , newly invented by
Mr. a lbretch. The Infant Virtaofo i> a pupil of
a celebrated matter of th!» city.
Feluva y 10.
Ran a<w*y from lbs Subferibcr,
On the 14th January la#,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is cf a middling sized fiaturc, thick lip*,
marked with the I'm ail pox in the facc~*3h*
carried oft' a bundle of with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-flrcet, corner of Fourth-llreet,
ftiall receive two Dollars reward
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever TurSor, f id Girl after this oo
tic<:, shall be prol'ecuti-d to the fevcrity of the law.
NOT I C K.
\ LL persona wil l have any demindi against
, V thee.late of WILLIAM CO MP TOM lat
of the city of Philade phia, aectafed, are reqmf
ted to furniih their accounts, duly atteftcd. And
those who arc iaciebted to fai 1 eltat , are earn ,(lly
fulicitcd to make immediate payneat, t* cither of
the fubferibcrs.
Ifnac CathraU, ~l N
Jokn Ha'-jjortb, >- Administrators.
Samuel IVi/ctx. J
fanuary 17. w>.i»
Bafk;enridge—for fa!e
TT conf:ftß of 910 acres, all of which it
a fise rich Meadow, (the refidencs of the K\te
E*rl of St'rlirg). ft mav beconvirv.ently diKidid
into five farms, four of whi:h arc bouaiedon the
£at* by the river Pnf.iiekt
, l'h r* are on its numSer of buildings, forming
alq Jare of nearly three acres—T he d wclliu<': house
i* a very convcuient oite anJ a fmallexpencc woukt
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conn (Is of 150 c fin* bearing engraft
ed Apple Trees—and. there is on other pir .s of said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—a*, also a' gre%t
varicy of other fr jitt, particularly Cherries ot the
bed and moH delicious kinds.
Also, a great tiumber of beautiful F.xo»ic« and
crest Tree« t that add to ths be.vu'v and wnveni
uce.of the pla e [;• situation is ah: ut tS toilet
ii'oni she towns of Newark and Elizabeth : iQdn.
from Mor and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wo6d-«J and watered.
I o fttvc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafb, oa delivery of the deed*. PleaTe to eo
quircof T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefntt trect.
FtWuarjr %. eodtfI'ablic Sale of Real Ertates.
0.1 THURSDAY the 15th of
February trtt, will be exported to Pu' hc Sale,
a: : McrcbiUfs* in Seeo i '-Ireet,
at 6 -tleck i-t »Ve 'he foltowing
' ESTATES.
y>. J. A two brtek Hou'e, with t tws
tlory framfc 5a JJirc? n i lot ao feet front and
loc set ; a!T> a vacant Lot of 4-5 ftkt Iqu.irc,
with the privilege r[ an .ilcy to jro thereto. I his
interest Lai 'ately b?en for aoo dollar* per an
num, and is firuated in Chn'Hiau-drect, between
Front and Second Greets, the fccond house from
Mr Caleb Alh's. •
Ko a. A three (lory brick House, fituare at
the north raft corner of Chefnut tlreets, beinjl4
feet on Seeond-droot, and 10 feet on Chefnut
ftre*t, now in the tenure of Mr Morange, at the
yearly refit of 40odolhr*, and is deemed one of
t"br best stands for the fait of dry good* in this city.
, No. J. A han< some well fintflied three ltory
brick House, aofeet front and roo feet deep, situ
ate in Pifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
flreets. No. 40 Thisi oufe isUuilt and finiihed
in the modem ilyle, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole Thei eis a ciflern
ps rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer: let for6oo dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, fituate'in
Plumb street, between Second and Tliird street,
b«ng jo feet frost and 13* feet deep, at prefeot
occupied by Robert Kennf.
No. 5. A three (lory brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-fireet, No. 171 North, going thro*
to Water street, where it i* five story. It is 20
feet frohf and 48 feet de*p, in complete repair,
and ii rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 tr.orrhs one quarter in 9 months,
and oue quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan I*, I7fß- 3awtijF
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrad his bnfi
r.cfs, offers this Fiiite (or moderate
terms. On it are one Biaft and three - Air Furnaees, #
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ft«nes ; also a good Forge, all
in perfed repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
n rre lately baile for the parpofe of casting Cannon
for this State.~There are abou' two thoufaod acres
ps Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
'•cry fine arable Laod, producing the bet? Hay ard
I'ifture. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
lupeiioT to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in ihe world ; for aoi oue of fixtynice £hi*
lately nude, although f<nr.e of the 24 * ere bored
ir.'u 3a pounders have failed on proving. The fr u
acion »s very eligible, particularly for this b/ar«ch of
manufafture, and a place of arms king in the Itate
cf Connedicv.t. and only 30 miles from feve'ral land«
ings on the Hudfor.'s siver,.and having every advan
tage that can rclu't froni a plenty of wiier ifTaing
bom a r.a'ura! pnod, very near the Furnace,
and wLi h :ray be converted into a variety of othir
u'etul r pofi.s. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wt h j1! the ftoek ar>d ntenfi's, and have poflcflion
oner brtore the firlt of Jun! ntft, and prrjjar tion
caav t>e.made in the meau ttnve (or poing into Blast ira
medij e!v thercalter, fc-r every pau v. ill be delivered
in gocd orfier, with fomc coal, Ore, dec. dec. For
term , spoly t-» Kjr. Jolepn AQtb -n.v, io PnilideJ
pr i 1; B»vid fc'q. one of th> RebrefemaHver
in Co-«grrfs lor thia>Sta e i Mr, D-vid V. ateiraan, on
t-eprernifcs, or to the-p opiuior inNew-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON*.
Pfr t. .lawtr
Recently Publijhed^
A -id Ju*?
Gz:;*iths, No. 177, Scrum's street, and
u\zy be hid of Moac vJ. Ruces,
A 1 and vakiahle wefk, in two closely
A Vdu:r~es in jvo. (price 3 dollar*)
ii!'jftrati6ns of Prophecy :
In which are eluciJa'edmany prediAions, which
occur in Isa 1 ah,' Daniel, the writings of the Kvan
ge'iand Ifook of Revelation ; which are tho't
to ahSdilg oth>r preat events a revolution
in*jFnncv, -avoraMe to thr interefls of mankiad,
tk? overthrow of the papal power and of erclefi
af»:cal lyranr.r, the downfall of evil defpbtilfci,
and the fuStepeftt : r&!iorition of the Aat<of the
world : together wirh
A large collection of Extracts,
!St*fj»effwl through tlii work, and taken from
nun>rcuiscommentate™, particularly from
Jose-li Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vifiringfc", Mr. WiHTam Lowth,
l)r. lh. Ociodwir*, Fleming,
Or. Hemy More, Ber.gelias,
Dr. John Owen, Dau! uz,
Dr. Whitby,
Peer Jurieu, I owman,
Bi?bop Newton, and
Bi&r.p Chandler. Sdhop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other irqnirie* treated of in
this work, and numerous ilhifWatiors oF prophecy ;
, H contains a considerable number of fads or ob
frrvations on the fvmbcli: language of prophecy,
the nrhentidty, us?*, led ©bfcurity of the apo
cai\pfe, and thegeruinentrs cf the Hebrew pro
phet.#; oa the ropii corruption of chriftranity is
tTteTotTrtli century* on the difpefliou and reftcra
tton o( tKe Jews, the history of the falfe Mcfliahs
»ho have appeared among thctv, and the r&afcns
ki (r»pr>ort < f the conjeAure that the Afghans are
tsnfcar.ee to opprdfSon ; on the irruptions of th»
northern nations, and the catifes of the decline and
of the Roman empire ; on the cuilsms of the
Ttrtars, ar.d the independtnee of the Arabs ; oa
the of those nations, and those of the
Turks ; an the Usurpation cf the Mamalukes, and
the piil hiflory and prefect Itate of Egypt; on
the chara&cr andcondeA of Conftantip.e, Ju'.iici-
Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the fccrcity of
bocks xa the and the causes of the de
cline of literature ; on tho rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall ; on the in
cenfiftenci-.s in the political chara&er6cf bishops
Newtoh and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory tf the earth ; on the beneficial
dfltds Which ehriftianity has produced in favor oi
laming and civil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote thecrtablilhnaent oi equal governments.
lutlependent of the large proportion of original
piatter contained in thefa volnmcs, those who are
Intcrciied m thefubjeA will, it isprefamed, wi*h
to periUe or confu'.tthera, becaule the extrads in
tliducH them, which are accurately cited, and
marked r.'i:H inverted commas, are taken from a
greater fcyr.ber of writ ers oa the prophecies (a*
i art if the rorr ai catholic commentators be ex
elwded) than are easily accefliblc ro any one indivi
dual dvfn in Europe, or are probably to be found
rn any one libnry in the world. They are (ur
nifead with indexes, and a to* ious table of con
tents. J»n 21—2aw2w
-
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Biwjamin SHiifin, Mailer,
From Bourtitiux, »* J for file by the fubferibcr,
No. 11 Walnut St trt.
Bonrdeanx Brandy ~j
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to'
Medoewine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Tbanyas Murgatrtyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALB.
Sherry Wine in pipe, and quarter casks
Rota do. do-
Pimento in bags tM
ypoo buftiels Liverpcc! fait.
' Aug. 24- tut&stf-
\Y. Haydon
F DtTmrnl-jr of Drawing—from London,
, (Where has Hud»cJ f.veral yjars under one of
, :ha at eft eminent m after* in t\at fciauce)
INFORMS hi* friend-. that be has re-commcnc
'' \ hi* private tnition.—Terms, as usual, Sii
, Dollars per month; f»*r attendance three tinnea a
i week. Likewise, ail kinds of Orn ameotal Paint
ing, fnH, flow .r>, &c. ravghj on the .bove terms.
\v. H. flatter* himfe If hi# term# will be particu-
advantageoas to those that employ him, as*
, he mikes no additional charge if ihere are two
x pupii* in one family.
A Hn* dire&ed to \Y. H. left it the ofGee of t£i«
. O w«f, will be immediately attended to.
, January 9. saw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to he last will and tcAamrnt of
William HtnuAH, deeeafird, and po/Icf
r fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
Areet. between Third and Fourth ft- acts, conk t
ing of the Iwufe, No XC7, with the lot on which
I it is ere&ed, a fta-blt, and other improvement*.—
1 Thehaufe is %o feeticont, afcd contains tea gooi
> apartment*., Thelitis of the fame breadth as the
• house an J 109 feet deep, with a Well of watofan.l
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pump
-1 in goop repair. The flable ftaiids on the rear of
, the lot and will accommodate four horiieo-and a car*
rlage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wfie,exicud
irg to Cherry Street. It? central p&fttiou and the
advantages it pofleff .s with refpeA to free ventila
-1 tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
» person wifljing to po£efs an eligible property in Ph*
, lade'phia.
For further particulars enouirejat No 88, Vine
. Street—of
Robert Hcysham,
or > A (fling Executor*.
Francis Bowes Sayr», j
January n $
The Subscriber
INFORMS thaf: whom .t may interest or Con
cern, that the Ju4g*s of the Caurt of Coiqiuoj
Pleas hare appointed fifjnJjy, toe tivertty-jlxlb Jtmy of
February next, t * heir him anJlrs Creditors, at the
Court-honf« in this city, oh the fubjeA of hia peti
tion for the benefit of the lafolvent Law—and
that their attendance is deilked.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PLilaadclia, Jan. 16. eota6tfyF
The Subscriber intends to make
application far the icnewal ofa Certificate of a Share
mi the Rank of ihe Untied State*.[Handing in I he n»me
of A. B. N T o. dated July 11, 1797, the ftMfc
Richmond, Dec. 1 •
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for then- iafpec
tion finte December 1796 are balanced to the 3 rft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open ?t H« in. Chefntit Street for
thar further investigation ~nA fcrut ny.
JAMES GREfcNUEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. lit 17^?.
All Peffons
Hiving: any demands aga'nft the Efiateof ihe
life Captain George Irwin, are to
bring in their account* pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January ntxt eftfuing
2nd tfcofe who itc-iwfebtfd td ftM estate kn to
liciteil to make immediate |fijirfiin( to
SARAH IRWIJJj AdininifUairix.
tt9V. *9 1797. $
. - ii O T ICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Fl?e\vtood, of
Liverpritf, late-os Philadelphia, tftereKafct, de
ceafrd, are requested ro exhibit their accounts,
properly a:t?fl«J; Jtnd those Who are indebted
to tfcfe fame, are cefired to make immediate
pay men i, to
Cfeo.
Ro. ij. So. Third-ilreet. f '
Tantiary 4. I dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2. 1797.
ON 7 a releafc of survey o r 433 acres,6B perches
of land, fauate in lower Smirhfield t.ownfliip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of ad March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz.
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Goriion and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Ef(j. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Varkrr.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the caveat, or any
others iuterefted or concerned therein, they having
at thirty days notice far John Hall, Secretary
of the Laud OSce.
N. Lvfborough.
January 46 ftiFiWtm
. Copper for Sheathing,
F§r Sale t by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlrect % near Fifth.
January 29 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—lnquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, a;. daw
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acre* and 40 percf»«?s, with a neat two
flory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, Sec. situate on the Irilb tra& lane, in the
townlhip of \toyauiecling f about one mile from
tho city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at tile office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this plae£, for taile and
eL*g-*nce, fland unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal patronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to. ifine pnopefali
for printing by fubfsription. the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 1775,t0
the present time.
This work (hall be printed with a new type,
made far the parpefe ; ar.i on gobd paper. It
will fee delivered at o:ie dollar per volume (o&a
---vo) in 6vo >.—tafli to l e paid oa delivery
It is needless to fay any thing of the merits of
t&is undertaking— scarcity of tSe Journals 1
throughout the United ate*, is fufScient to jufti- <
fy th* printer in his hep* of meeting with that '
success, which he is certaio the enterpriae delerve*.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. *7. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in zvboU and Oaftierces
Bvjydec.UK Brandy
Ttr.eriffe Wine 1
Molasses
Georgia find Carolina Indigo
Rax ens Duck end* arte togjhead of paiit
bru/hes. ,
N. Cs* J. Fraztr. J
No. 95, toatb Front Street. J
AVr. 7. dim.
PROPOSALS,
FOR PAJA'TJ.Xf? cr SVB!CSIPTIQX\
A l>I« AKD IKV r R «".STI 3? C V'o*K, IK T1 TLIO,
a tri:aiise
' ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
' Coutuninga f'crau*.* tke various crime* an'? mis-
fcy *Lkh pubic an J pi ivate proper
ly, rrc. |.i«f-m, injured am! endangered :
Aud f««£c-iißg remedi-*:»for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the couut*e*of Vlid.Hcfex, Surry, Kent,"
aud E/Tex ; forth; city and liberty of Wctlmin
ft»:r ; aui for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
To those who rtadthis curious and valuable n»#ri,
it will need no reeofmnen'stivn— tbty Jto jo its foil J merit
—hut at it hat hi tier to oat ixto very few h amis im tin
f count *j iit «•;//»»/ ke amiss to obfer >e—fo great uu; the
*fprctztiTi aaJ j'emaud in 1 o* /».i, that it paff<d tbrcusb
l tbrrc l-jup editUns im life cowrfe of twelve maijlha. As a
detail of tin i.igsniWu < varietits of fraud. that enJanger
1 P rj p :r J** aii.toji o bit overgrarvm mud opvlemt
eiiu,, it iaMH t fat 'Ui ajj~*r J tic reader great entertainment
as \in!t mt itfl.ruStom ; but as the author trates all thrfe
enznm.tics to aferv % and in
«, bjiyef ttrhicb efbaalh rxijt in all the Large capitals of
the United States, the buf.ncj is trovght Lome to our a-torn
tbirt ; and the ttorl has ah nertajkg claim to our atten
tiveper ttfjl.
'To ajjyi tie legijlattr and the tma ?if rate im the humane
if preventing or: met, and iheir eo feoment punijb
m.ntSy nas the patriotic def:~n of the mat Lor. '* Private
offence i, Be fays, ere the fear'ce *f pub/if crir.-et, and the
hefi method of gtuerdif.g f -iieiy agsinfl the latter is, to make
proper provi ■'ions, for cheeking the former''—' * Tb<fe men
.»re eafi'y ftdutedfrom thflr ioye'ty illo are apt pates from
virtue.'* '
N D 1 T I O K S.
This work will be prioted in a !orge*Ot2avo, on
• a?i excellent Engiifh paprr—lt will be delivered to
ftfbfcribers, bound ic boards. at the moderate price
of (Jne Dollar and it half; although the last London
edition, oil inferior paper and meanly bound, is
Dow fold at *wo dollars and a half. To non-fub
fcribcrs the price wi!i be raised.
Whatever encourag-ment may br given by sub
• fcriptifcn, it will be committed to the }*r*fs without
j delay ; and, barring accidrffts, will be roady for
publicition early in April.
(pF* Sub£criptions will ba thankfully received at
Br.vjAMiN book-floie, No 68,.High
fir. cc, and by molt of the other booksellers i» the
city ; ty-o«iorge Hill, ia Baltimore; and by San>-
uel OapipbeD, and A. Druii.mond, in New-York.
January 31. lawtA
ROSS JjT SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTO'N
Bengal in lag. and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 casts RICE, rsd
A rfaf<Jel of fblp building RED CJUD AR.
oa. »'T. . „ - „ K
To be Exchanged for
Oriufby German, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A traft of valuable Land
In L> coming jeftriing thai of th* Hofiand <ro.
and contaioing 10,000 Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
.!>"■ ~-,v - - i
NOTICE.
To ioldtn of J IMES GREEN LEAF'S
and EDIVARD FOX'S Engagrmcttitj
IN confetjuence of maay baring been present
ed, from late unavoidable cifcumftances fnom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, rh«jr
are rei(dy to ilTat the fame to those who may ap
pijr wfthit(fisty d*y», at No. 8 CbefHut Street,
and thofc who t*o not, will be considered as re
iinqujfhing theit claim on the Aggregate fund
prorfdetl ft»r their paymetit.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKIR.
Oecerabor r?. d6ct
FOR SALE, at
Wm. YoOng's Btok Store,
No. 52. Second street, the earner of Chefnut ftrcet.
REPORT of the Committee of the Hbufe oif
Reprirfentativesot the United Statfes, appoint
ed tvo prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
aga iift Vo JLLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeachod of high crimes and mif
demreanors, made in j&urfuance of a resolution of
the Houf«of Reprafentatives, authorizing the
Conimitteetoftt during the recefi ofCongrefs, and
inlh'u&ing ihcm " to enquire, and, by all lawful
44 nvear.s, to dUcovcr the whole nature and extent
"of the offence whereof the laid Williain Blount
" stands ifripeache..', and who are the s>artie< and
" a hbciates therain "
Printed by order of ibe tioufi of Aeprefettttt 'rvcs
December 20. §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De L.i GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
mekn« of becoming p«rf*a in the French Lan
guage, tiat he has just 6pened his Libiait, con
caing of upwards of 1500 Tolumes, the bed cal
culated te afford either ufeful inilrudion, or ptea
fur:. The eOnditiOns, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every hook-feller's
id town.
n. 2. All translations from and irito the French
Englilh and Spauilh Languages, executes with ac
curac> dispatch. eo I to <V». !.(.
Samuel Pleafants y Sons,
No. 74, South Sccohd-Jlrcet,
HAV.I received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now epening for fsGe-, on
rcafonahlc terms. OA
l'his Day is PubJiftied,
BY Mess. Dob Ton, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other BookfeSlers, •'
Price One Dollar ar.i twenty-five cents,
E.'tyantij printed on I'/oVr paper, and Hit.
yfijed,
By John Thoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Conftitutiohs
Of th« several Sf.tes with each other, and with
that of the United States : exhibiting in Tables,
the prdminen: features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafiingtogether their most important provisions,
uader the federal heads of adiniaiftration ; with.
Kotes
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of tha United St3tes.
N. B. A few Copies printad on an inferior pa
per, at i-4thsof a
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who wonld occafionalty attend mlfket, may
hear of a place by apply in ? at the 13 mile #«ne,
on the Briliol road, or No. 109, Arch-street
Philadelphia. A (lag'.e aan would beprefcredc
Jan. jo. 2a «f
James C. Samuel W. Filher.
AT TBl:it STOXI,
Ho. =13, corner of Arch and Front Hrest.
HAFB FOK SALF.f
Cotton and worHed Hoficry in trunk*, aflorci
A few balea red, white, aud yellow Flannel
Dirto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Uullicat silk ditto
Ditto Hondichecry and M&dra!s ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TafFitics
4coo pieces Nanko-vs, and
Fett cheßs bell Hyi'on T«a
Atft —1500 boxes fecit London Window Glsfs,
from Bby (J, to 19 by T4 —and 15 hhds. Glafv
Ware tfforted, which they wiil difpafe of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 10 3tawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcurra. and for
sale by the fuhfcribtr, at Ne. 61, Chw-fout llreet,
between Second and Third Streets, die follow
ing a Clicks .
ivlaltaragonges Charconha Dorsm
Cfiint2 and Calicoes Dacca worked moflins
Gillis RotniaU Eutdannoes
Nillas Sc. PenOaloes Chafia Romals
Blue c!oth Hair ribbon
r.TullMuiHiankercbicfs Palempdres
P.itna do. Lar\ares Opium
Lefl'er Car iimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
noveir.her 17 turh*4w
Valuable Books,
Just received by tLe Fii* AMtgicAN Fr6m
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
. CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbookt may IX had gra
tit. Tliefe addvd te O'a usual stock, form an
c\te*tivc and elcjaot colltilio* of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise bockt in fua
. dry language* and on various fubjefti.
7his Day is Paili&ed,
i By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lctrered, and emb«Ki<hed with an
j elegant frontilpiece and frvrnty three tuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
ok,
The Juvenile Friend ; ,
Being a v&luible colle<nion of inrerelling and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy efte£l« of youthful in
nocence ap.d filial affe&ion—ln prose and verft.
Defigncd 16 improve tfnd amufc the rising gene
ra t ion.
In the Prcfs, ar.d will be speedily publilhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
SubfcritJtions for (his incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain abotn three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fwbfcribtrs neatly bound, lerterad and
embellifhcd with an elegant fromifpiece, fdr one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t.
EOR SALE, ir LL "
William Priestman,
119, South Front-street, next door to the Cjaf
tom-_houle,
large of
Gold and iilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, nukes
to the King of England
by barker
fair du-liing Eiftofs, by Knubley-, CharUg
Crofg
TeleCuope, by kibr:ght
Box of patent Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small collection of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
| Also, 14 Lake Erre Lots
j Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOU N G,
No. sa, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftrec,
HAS naw ready lor sale, a very large afior:-
ment of Eegllfh, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfo t fi*ch elementary books :
oa Science, as are generally read iu the academies :
and colleges throughout th« United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. % vo price 3 dole.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All fqrts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards. Pasteboards,
flieathiag and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wlftrs, and other articles, ef
the be A quality, ufod in tkc counting house, or
public office. ,
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleSion of
BOOKS, with tie price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring ns above. Q&. 14. —3aw4w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. o&avo.
By William Youkg, Boolfetler, •
No. 52, Second flrect, the corner of Chefnut lireet,
(Price,in boards I 1 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American Wove medium
Paper,
A YIE IV
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftej in tIU elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With an attempt to correii some important er
rors of thafwork, ar.d cases in illuflration, chief
ly ftMcfled from the records of their practice, it
the General Hofpita! at Calcutta,
Br tVuiiAM First & CfiAs. MKclea.v.
To which ia l'ubjoir.i.-d, a Trtatifr on (he aiSion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and iu applica
tion for the cure of difeafet of iitdiredl debility.
AndadifTertaticn on the sources of Epidcmirand,
Peftitentialdifaafes; inwhichisr.ttempredtoprove
by a numerous induflion of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagioo, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain vfciflitttdef of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maciiak, of
Calcutta.
nov jut
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of th. city—for <rhkh a gtlierotre
rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Piiirtr.
°&- '?■ eotf _
Ttn Plates,
FOR SALE 3Y
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
December 18. r =
For SaVanrjali,
TbefrtJ! fiiiHr.* SiM
c£\£JjT SWIFI PACKET,
-T (* re £ul*r trader)
Patrick Gn»Bt»,»i«jl9h- r
WILL fait on the loth inft
P"mii»injr) hi« haiidfrni-»cro(rmodati#nt
.'•r piffcngfrs. Far freicht or palftgr ipply to
the nailer on borrd, it Bxkley't whir;, above
Maiktt-Arctt, or
N. £3* y. Frmrr,
No. fj. South Frott-llreet.
Frhrnirv t. 4
For Amfierdam,
I-—* The Ship
FAR M E R,,
John M'CbELg*, ;
WJLL nil :a a feJ? Hiyl, tfte
S»i-e«i^«^a?g re jtcr part »f her cargo' being
rtady- Fot- freight of fifty toi lo£ Coffee, or
palfagr, apply to the mailer •» fcffartl, at WO<
iiut-ttreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
! Who is laniing, out ot the said Ship, front
Bnin-Jtltix, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cast«
Claret ill cafal, of a superior quality
Foiftiuifcc,
>• 'Wines in cafr<
, Lunilie, J
Prune# in boxes
Koveybg a-t.
For Sale or Charter,
.jjjjfst i GOOI/hope "
Will carry about i i-k> barrels, anß
•♦ready totake in a cargo. For tertia
tpply to
Pragers Is? Co,
No. 151, South Second-ftrrtft.
Who have for sale—prime Bt. Croix Surtr
and Rum, Madera, L:fcon, and Tcnerifft wine,
Xovcinber 7.
For irTGeorgia,
THE SHIP
Butter,
Captsm Cbishbl*,
A "< w v «"y» *"•> excellent
for paflTengerv
Sails on the 10th Deaember. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
Prbo bitt to Jifpoft tf y
A small invoice of GLAUtfER SALTS
INDIOOi an i a pared of HOLLY WOO 3.
November 18. , £
~~ FOK S siLli,
By JOHN MILLER, j„h. y Co.
No. 8> Chrfnut-frreet,
One hundred and eighty baits
BENGAL GOODS,
AHkongft which ars,
Gurrahs Metnooditt
Baftas Sannas
Chisa naSt Tanria Celiacs
dtairirs fonfrrties
Blue Cl«thi Caliches H
PafcimpJori Rut+ll HaMfcet chief,
Araongft them arc a great proportion of the
masufa&Bres of Patna.
December I.
Insurance dffice of the State of
Pennsylvania.
February i, 1798.
THE Dir«fio»s hare this clay declared a dividend
of fcventy-rfcjhra on ti h share of tilt Rock of the
company, for the last Ci months, which will be
paid to the or legal rtprafenta
tivea after the ioih int.
JAMES S. COX, PrefidM.
February i. dij;
Landing this day,
Fro» oh Bdird ttu schooner Two Friends,Dan
leJ Crrwlcy, Matter,
»SV and f Jamaica RUM,
FO» SALS BY
George Latimer y Sea.
, y\Q'vtiaber Q.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fuMcriber, on the 14th
•f December, 1797, a Ncgre Man, about »i
years oIJ, by the n.'inc of Cato,he is ab«at 5 fe«t
7or 8 inches high, niidling well proportiored; he
has a very coaife voice, his fore teeth ftandvery
far apar:; there- were one or two with bin—l
eannot rightly deftribe the cloaths he took with
him, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of ierfcy srowfers, a
baa worn drab colourej coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him fonr very good Ihirta I
}xtoca he has ma<f« for Philadelphia or the Terfey.,
Whosoever takes up said negro and secures hijn f®
that the owner may get him again, (hail have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHfcl MOORS,
l.iviig ioSt ill Poad, Kent county, Maryland
I 3 1"""-- »■ *6tzaw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufaiflared,
GINGER and Pepper, gtound ; Hulled or
pearl Barley • Philadelphia Porter, Bctr,
Ale and Cyder j Taur.ton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Liiuon Wine",
luitable for exportation or heme coisfutoptioß.
The fcighefl pi ice given for Muftard-Sced.
Aljo forfait, A quantity of Boeing and
common Baize*, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuflians, Shawls, Ac, for'fale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-ftreet
* c "'- m.&th.t.lj.. v
Samuel & Miers Fjfher,
ARE NOW OPEVINU, .'/
At their Warehonfe, No. 2 7, Deck Street, a freflj
ailortment of Woolen and other goods, fnitable to
the season, received by the hte arrivals from En*,
laad. 5
77 ft have also fir Sat*.
Lifboa
Tmerifle /
Sherry, and ( " P»P c V hlls - and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crimes, See.
10th a-.o- a td. diwjtaw^w.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX roK SP/NN/XG,
To be given out every fecoad, fourth, and Citb
day mcrat.ng, between the hours of 10 an.l ij
back of. no. 5», south FiftMlr.et, ahove Spruce
ftrect eodaw
■Jujl Published, ,
And to be had of .Ueffrs. DoWba, Campbell Riee '
Qary, and the other pricipal Bcokfellers in tSe
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boarc.
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America
By 3ENJAMIN SMITH BARTOV as ■>'
Jure "io.