of tijc and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser,
Numbe* 1660.j
For Sale by the Subscriber,
|0 bales Coffas
410 do. Bafcas
II do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
» do. Gorahs
»5 do. Meragungees
3 do. Check Stripes
1 do. Gazzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
aj pipas fined particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3»w4w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capl. Hastie, from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very fuperier quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcets of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For SaU by
JAMES LATIMER,jun.
71, Sojith Wharves.
Who has also for Sale«
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine,
Dee. ?. diw
~~ W ANT E D,
A. LARGE PARCEL OE
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Also a quantity of Stone & Bricks,
I am ready to enter into centralis for the a
bove articles—ajreafonablc time may be allowed
for preparing them ; ar.d cash shall be paid either
ia advance, or upon their delivery, as may be a
greed on.—Apply to the Subscriber, House-Car
penter, Lombard-flreet, No. 3.
John Crean.
December 19. d6t.
THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, foutb (eeond-ftreet—containing
AN elegaatFrontifpiece of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and hi* Family, in the castle of Olmutz,
with an illustration ; being an account of the princi
•pal ev«nts in the public lite of the Marquis, with a
(Vetch of the fufferings of himfelf and his unfortunate
family. A complete Almanack— 104 ruled pages
for memorandums, observations, See. alfo,for account
of monies paid and received for everyday in the year
a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends—Lift of births, deaths, See.—new
country dances, poetry, fangs, enigmas, See. See.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 179! —containing an Almanack ; 104 ruled pages
for memorandum! and calh account ; Duties payable
on goods imported iato the United States. Cullom
li oufe feet, &c. stamp duties, to take {Act after the
3 Ift December; a lift of the poll towns and crofj-roads
in the United States; a variety of ufeful tables, and
other interefling mattei.
W. V. BIRCH, constantly keeps for sale, a general
affortmcat of Merchant's account Books, and other
ftat orrery good*, and make* to order beok. or any
hre , and ruled to any pattern.)
Elegant Maps, on Roller*, and a large Chart of the
Weft-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Carda, EngliQi
B nd Amciican. Dec. 17—* 31.
fames C. Samuel W. Filher,
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.113, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HArl FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A lew bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TaiFetias
4000 pieces Nanksens, and
Few chelU best Hyson T«
JJfo—isao boxes best London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and Ij hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
November >B.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli to rocur to the only
means of becoming perfedt in the Frtnch Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of I volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, togethir with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. )All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilb Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. coins nov. Ij.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Jhe ha« received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
■school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
dthe more convenient accommodation of her
Sfcholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
(educationis particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
-jefpefltve profrflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. slmf(tf
The fituatisn is perfe&ly healthy ; aHd made
{more agreeable by an extenfivc garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a "handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is erected, lituated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village ®f Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one handred feet on the main
jtreet, and extends with the fame breadth tobaek
street. Also, a large tot, containing nearly four
acres, Separated from the former by back street.
One third only of tfce purchal'e money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all i(>cumbitinces, and an indisputable title givenf
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Butnes, residing in Bordentown, near,
thepremifes, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, ne. 144, Market-ftrett.
December ». 3awif
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 4, 1798.
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
j - - L The faft failing Clip
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbkn, Master,
ly'Hg wharf below
d '- rac * iJ *= i^3:> Market Street—haj handsome x
commodations for pafTengers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Master on board, or to
N. & J. Frazer,
No. 9j, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina ladigo, Molalfes in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, See. See
December 27 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
i" A British vcffel, fiftesn hundred
tw© thousand five hundred bar-
Peter Blights
VTHO HAS FOR SALS,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogfhea
and old Londoa Particular Madeira, fit ior imme
diate use, in pipe*.
December 10 §iw
for Charleston,
THE SHIP
VENUS,
. - in S a * :e "wkarj of Mcjf rs. Peretts
9 CHE will take Freight on very
•* O low terms, and fail the firft
opening. Apply to the master on board, or te
Jos. Anthony & Co.
Pet ember 18 §
For Amsterdam,
FA T R M P E R,
John M'ColloiH, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
SKSSScSS6fe«« greater part of her »argo being
ready. For freight as fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Wa?nut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, eut of the said Ship, from Bor
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sautecce, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. $
For Londonderry,
THE BMGANTINE
William Whittih, Master.
A strong good veflel, about two
hundred tens, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing «u«l Fiancl»'o «liorf. - For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenberger's tvbarf.
Who wants to Charter.
' A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov 1 8. §
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE,
carry about noo barrels, and
flEJggggj'l is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers Ess Co.
No, 151, South Second-ftr?et.
Who have for (ale —prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper boHomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
JSl€f.'Tv?XjL cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
JPHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
November %i. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
C a ptain Chisholm,
n€W ve fl" e i j w ith excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS W SIMSON.
Who have to difouft of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. .
november 18. $
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, wyth a neat two
story brick Houfeand Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifli tracft lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be mads known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette..
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the lenewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
ofA.B. N0.4004, dated July 11,1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 caJks RICE, end
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oft. 17. }
By John Fenno, N° 119
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cu; Nails of all files, from to icdy
Flooring Brads, Spring*, faddlt and card Tacts
Oakum and chipped Logwuod
Shotmakeis and Sailers Thread
Also—Sawed Marblo, suitable for currier's tablet,
tomb and heaii Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea J*, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made an 4 Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diilance, diif&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6m
NOTICE. .
'
To bolder, of JAMES GREEN LEAP t
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, fnan late unavoidable circuraftances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiue the fame to those who may ap
ply within Gxtydays, at Ne. 8 Chefnut Street,
aad those who do not, will becsnfidercd as re
linquishing their claim oa the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
J£)HN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December ij. rfftot
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufacture^
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barlejr; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine,
luitahle for exportation or home coafumptiom
The highest price given for Muflard-Seed.
Also forfait, A quantity of Booking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, fonth Front-street.
Nov. U. m.&th.t.lj.
All Persons
Having any demands agamft the Eilate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
.bring in their account* pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day Of {January next ensuing
and those who arc indebted to said eflute are so
licked to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. $
ITTTTt
At Alderman' Bedford's office, Lombard street,
No. 88, about three weeks ago, a whole piece
of cotton, supposed to be stolen—any person
having loft the fame* proving property and pay
ing charges may hate it aglin.
' *eo3t.
The Subfcribcr,
Informs those to when he is indebted, that his
books, which.have been kept open for thsir inspec
tion since December arejbala«ced to the 3 ift
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-honfe in Chefnut Street for
their further inveftigatioa and fcrut'ny.
JAMES GREEN LEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(11798.
Infurancc Company
OF THE STATE OP PENNSYLVANIA.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
Eleftion for thirteen Diredlors to serve for
one year, will beheld at the company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at 11
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, See'ry.
December u> dtSthJ
Office of the Inlurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN consequence of an application from a number
of Proprietors of Stock, made agreeably to the
aft of incorporation, a general meeting of the
Stockholders is particularly requested on Wedncf
day, the 3d January next, at II o'clock, at the
Office of the Company.
SAM. W. FISHER, See'ry.
December 16. dt3dj
Insurance Company of Nerth
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of the Company will be held at
thejr office on the ninth day of January next (be
ing the fecondTuefday in the month) for the Ejec
tion of twenty-five Dirc&ors for the ensuing year.
EBEN. HAZARD, See'ry.
December 14. th&mtqthj
PhiladelphiaandLancafterTurn
pike Company.
r I 'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
4- annual Ele&ion for Officers for the ensuing
year,will be held at thC'Company't Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
10 o'deck, A. m. Wu. GOVETT, See'ry.
December 7. its m&wt7j
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
Ele&ion of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
held at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, at 12 o'clock.
By order o> the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, See'ry,
December 16 eodtiothj
Tin Plates,
FOR SAL? By
SIMON WALKER,
Puke, near Fifth street.
December 18. iw
A House in Burlington for bale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burliiigton, New-Jersey, which he wishes to
sell. Tor terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Waftiington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 19. eo;t
FO.t S
By JOHN,MILI.ER, ju». fc? Co.
No. 8, ChWnut-ilreet,
One hundred and eighty tales .
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongfi which are,
Gurrahs Msmoodies
Baftas Sannas
Ginz-nahs TandaCoffaes
Guzzies Emertice
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna. .
December I. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No, 45, feuth Third street,
An cxtenfive and general assortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz. -
Best London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. WoTfted Bindings, afTor-
Malceuzie'sfupcr,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
46, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. 130 to joo, Blaek >nd coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattiu and figured do.
Black l'ewing Silks Black Velvet, i-4toi2d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & peton Sattias
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black Ijrufh Feathers Buttons
And a compleat assortment of Geods, suitable
to the pr.fent and approaching season, at reduced
prices. Dec.. 6. dtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX tor SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and 11—
back of no. sl, louth Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eodiw
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bauideaux Brandy
Tentrijfe Wine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead of paiit
brufbes.
N. (3* J. Fra-z.tr.
No. 95, South Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim
Frefli Raisins*
A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut street wharf, from thefloopYa
rico, capt. Hafkell, confiding of Kegs, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Matter
on board, or to • _
Jos. Anthony Co.
December 19 _ §?t
Bank of North America,
January I, 1798.
AT a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a divi
dend of fix per cent, wa* declared for the last
half year, which will be paid to the Stocknolders or
their reprefeutarives at any time after the iotb inft.
By order of the board,
JOHN NIXON, President.
diioth
Bank of the United States,
January jJ, 1798.
'"P'HE Directors have this day declared a dividend
J. of sixteen dollars on each ftiare for the last fix
months, — a lfo an additional dividend of four dol
lars on each (hare, arising from surplus profits.'
YWtich dividends will be paid to the Stockhold
ers, or their legal representatives, after the loth
nft. d6t
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mili, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perse& repair,as are all the Water Works connect
ed with thife various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of cafling Cannon
for this State. —There arc about two thousand a&res
of Land, one half of whfafc is under wood, the oth«r
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Paftu»e. The Cannon lately mannfa6iured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal'
to any in the world ; for not oue of ftKty-nioe guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have faiUd on proving. The (tiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this-branch of
manufa6lure v aad a place of arms lying in'the state
of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from fevefal land
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result trem a plenty of water llTuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek and utensils, and have poffeflion
oner before the firit of June next, and preparation
may\>e made in the mean time for going into Biaft im
mediately thftreafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &e. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premises, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee, t. 3*wtf
NOTICE.
AJ.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnlifcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anflejr.of London, by the (hip Bacchus.capt.
George, which left this port in June last for Lon
don. But that ship having heen captured on her ]
paflage and fentto France, the above letter and in
clofures have failed in their deftinatioii.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four shares, dated January I ft, 1797, and
iftiied in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrbfs, Graat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Will be Sold,
On.Tuesday the ioth day of Jiuuary lift,
at 7 o'clock in the Evening at the Mer«
chant's Coffte House, the following def«
cribed trfrPCi of land—viz.
Sevea contiguous trails of land, situate
on the waters of litde Equinunk creek, id
the county of Northampton, surveyed on
warrants dated refpc&ively the 9th day
of Oftober, 1776, and patented in the year
1 713 -
A L S O,
Fifteen thousand acres of land iituate in
in Union, Springfield and Shirly townlhips
in Huntingdon county —Particularsof which
may be known by applying to Charles Ed
dy, No. 4, North Eighth Street.
Peter Ben/on, AuSlioneer.
Jan. 2. - dtioth.
The Gentlemen who were re
quelltd to obtain fignatares in the fevcral wards,
&c. to the petition addrefled to the Seleft and
Common Councils, on the fubjeftof watering
the city from a grand Kel'ervoir, will be pleased
to have their inierefting truf} completed against
next Wedncfday afternoon j when mefieogeri
will wart on them for the purpose.
SAM. MAGAW, Chairman
of a Meeting of Citizens.
Jnnuary <ju
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AY from the subscriber, on the 44th
of December, a Nigro Man, about 2»
yearn eld, by the nime of' Gaco,he is about 5 feet
7 or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned ; ha
hat a very voice, his fore teeth stand Very
far apart; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the doaths he took with
him, for he took two or three Fuits ; he had on
when hg went away, a pair of kerfcy trowfece, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half w»m wool
hat ; be took with Uim four very good flfirtt— J
expert he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys,
Whosoever takes up said negro andfecureshim, so
that the owner may get him again, {hall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Pond, Kent county, Maryland,
January t. »6tiaw
Ran away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797, a Negro Man, about 5 feet 5 or 6 inch,
es high, of a y«Uow complexion; when spoke to
and called by his name he tat a quick (harp look
out of his eyes and fliews the white of them very
much ; has taken all his eloathei with him, which
ate, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a striped vc.ft, nankeen
breeches, sdk stockings and ruffled shirts, and a
number of other eloaths. The said Negro under,
ilaads farming, and is a good Ihoemakcr and ear.
penter 1 he can read and write tolerably
is likely he may forge a pafr. Whoever takes up
said negro and fecuret him, so that I get him, (kail
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the subscriber,
Susannah Msoroßn, living in Still Pond, Mar)",
land, Keut coonty. >
N. B. The above Negro it 39 years old.
January %■ fa
i U DE iiiT,
And poffeflion given the ift January,
The House No. 107, Arch-street,
N«ar the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 88, Vine
Street.
December dtf
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea,
A few chests of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
<ner of Second and Pine streets.
December *6. cot s
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that 40
tlcdion for twelve Diredors, for the ensuing year,
will be held at the Bank on Monday, the Bth of
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cq/bier.
December ». dtSthf
Lodgings Wanted,
Furnilhed or unfurnilhed for a Gentleman, La.
dy and servant—two or three genteel Rooms and
a Garret ; Ctuated South of Market Street—En.
quire of the Printer.
Dec - *9- » Jt
for Yale,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, m
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as irew.
Enquire of the Printer. no v. 30.
This Day is Publifeed,
BY Me(T. Dobfon, Csrey, Campbell, Ric and tho
othn Booksellers, *'
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on Wove paper, and Hot.
prejjed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in TaUles,
the prominent features of eaeh Conftitutiou, and
classing together their most important provjfions,
under the several heads of admißiftration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of tho
United States.
Dedicated to th. People of the United States,
N. B. A few Copies printed op an inferior *L
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. % r
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS,
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No,
M,nday\ ,„ fouth F'°»t-flreet,
■'J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. fit
(. South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connefly, Old City
Tuefdai< . Audlion, No. 73 fouAi Front-street,
Afternoon—William Shannon, No,
C 183 High-street. .
S A tr™XS nfc °' N °-»
Thur/day \ Fox.
J i Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Conntlly,
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Bcnfon. '
[Vqlvmb XIII.£r The'o\vners of.the Brigantiue (
Mercury, Wi'.liam Ur">*. *naOer, cij tw'cd by
If' wish privafcr pt?H i*ld at in
ccn»bcr # m*y receive in' iif >rtmt;on rcf
pcaing iier, by typl)'"** t ' lc D»yartm«itf ol
St-te.
* The Primers in thr fc* port tow us or
the United States will rtuder a service to the
concerned, by above in tbeif news
papers. J jn 3*
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company.
January 3i, 179®-
Stockholders ik requeued to attend an
A adjourned meeting t* be hcW ai {he Coni
pny's office at 6 o'clock Erufry evening.
Jan.3. djt
NtCKLIN f S GRIFFft'H,
At their Sloe* on Walnut Streets harf—
HAVF FOR SALS,
58 hhds. of Jarnarca Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Tencriffe do. in pipes k *
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and cjphths of cbefts
Sail Canvass, N». 1, to &
Dimities, Ginghams, and Mudinets, in packa
ges ftiitahle for the Weft India market
Nails aflbfted
Bla> k quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and eritcs
Yellow ochre dry in rafts ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liveipool,exported round
as soon as tlie navigation is open,
p mr Liverpool Sait
Cotls
Rpanifli Brow n "|
Veuet ian Krd
Purple Brown t p AINXS
Patent white j
White lead j
"Krd lead J
ColcoOiar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw'ne
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Cftvter.
ALSO,
MAZON '
"**N. B. fhelateGrmof PhilipNicklin
is now changed to ,
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January i| eodtf
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
8- hhds. and / T ama i ca RUM,
j 2 pipes ) J
for sale by
George Latimer & Son.
vrvemher 9. $
James is? Richard Smith,
r pAKB the liberty of informing their friends
J. and the public, that tl«*y have removed their
&ore to Vo. 54, South Front Jlreti % to Ed
ward > ox'a Au<skk>n Room, where they have at
t}i*s time for faJe,alargc and general assortment of
European & Enjl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
_ William Penn, &0. fcc.
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
7he Cargo of tbe Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bstavia.
About 300 tons firft qftali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been fel;Aed)
ta tons Java Sugar, in canailers and hags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmrgs, Mace and Cloves
rot SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers Far Sale,
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jiufcica.
lot hhds Jamaica and
170 An. do. Rum.
November aj. . d6w
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fuhferiber, at No. 61, Cbefnut ftrefct,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
> Maha'agonges Charconna Dorsns
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mullins
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nillas ic I'enfufots Chada Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MnllMullhattkerckiefs Palempores
Parr 1 do. Banares Opium
Lesser Cardinium Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 17 tuths4w
NOW LANDING,
From on board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Difto in cases
Sauterne Win* iti do.
For Sale, apply to
John White/ides fcf Co.
No. 138, Market-ftrcet.
Also, on band,
Bnurdeaox Braudy m pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few c*(es of Claret, of a superior quality,
november K>. • §
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inrt. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sivrn Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secotid-fl reet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
DMtr:, where check books are kept lor render
ing and examiner in these, the City of Wafliing
ton, No.II. and Pater-fan Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may"he had in molt of the Lotte
ries autborifed ky law 1a any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The hufinef. of a Baoara, in buying and
(filing all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountiig Bills and Notes of Hand, fair of
l ands, Houses, &c. 4c. w*'.l he duly attended to,
by Wa. BLACKBURN.
njvrmher . §
~7 S~T OL E N
Out of the fubferibrt's office a large Hue
clothchak,half worn. Theinfideof theQollar
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
»a<3 chain as a faftening. A suitable reward
will be paid for refttiring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. 111 South 3d Street.
Dec. 16. 4<w
%\)t Odette.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDtW EVENING, JANUART 4
For the Gai:tt: of the United States.
The following ttbfcrvations are refpedful
ly submitted to the members of the State
LegiPiature as some of the re,-* ms why the
inhabit int> of this place think their requefl
for a turnpike road Germantuwn
ought to be granted.
Because at particular seasons of the year
the preftfnt road is so extremely bad as to be
totally impaflable with any kind of Carriag
es and even an Horfcback, attendtdwithfnch
danger as to put the live* of the riders in the
greatest jvo ardy.
Because all the attempts to repair them
have provedtotally ineffectual, although hea
vy taxes have been paid to support them.
Because the diftanae they arte it for, be
ing only 12 miles ; will in their opinion en
sure tbe uccefi of the undertaking, and the
constant use made of this road render the
toll moderate.
Because one half of the whole diftanee is
thickly inhabited, and forms almoll one con
tinued village for above five miie* ; the rt'itf
will ofcourfe extend to a greater number of
inhabitants than can be accomodated within
the fame diftanee on any other road leading
from the city.
Because the terms they desire it on are
such as induce them to believe it will in the
course of a few years after it is compleattd
become a free road bcfides providing a fund
for keeping it in repair forever without the
burthen of taxes. 1
In addition to ihefe reasons ma»y others
of cdnfiderable importance might be added,
which for brevity fake are here omitted, but
one of no small canfequence te the city and
advantage ta the country, which I -cannot
forbear urging Thp cleanliness of the ci
ty Gnce tbe awful visitations of '93 and '97
has been with great propriety urged. Tbe
removal of so large a quantity of manure and
other vegetable matler as is collected ia so
great a city at the season of the year when it
best fuitsthe Farmer to take and tbe Citizens
to part with it, certainly contributes to this
deferable end—for want of a good road the
Farmer is frequently prevented from remov
ing it during the winter—the spring ensues
and he is compelled to his great loss, to till
his ground withont it, while it lays ferment
ing to the great injury of the oitizens.
An Inhabitant of Germantoivn.
From the Maryland Herald.
MR. EDITOR,
A late charge to a grand jury of Phila
delphia muff have excited the attention of
every American citizen. Since the print
ing prefTes have become the organs cf the
political parties, which unhappily divide
our country, it is of the utmost importance,
that those of both fides Ihould receive the
farhe reft 1 iAivn
The manifeft partiality, which pervades a.
part of this charge, is therefore interesting
to every citizen of the Union.
I do not mean: to alTert that any obc
principle, which the chief juftiee has therein
laid down relative to libels, is not law. Of
all that code of la*s called the common law,
which we have inherited from our English
ancestors, the law of libels is the mofl ab
fard and impracticable. To publilh a writ
ing concerning any man, which cxpofes him
to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule, is
faid to be a libel. Nay, indeed, so far has
this do&rine been carried by a late decision
in England, that such a writing of a dead
man may be libellous. Were this to be put
in force in any great extent, it would soon
work its own abolition. The historian and
satirist of the times must lay down their
pens. To immortalize the corruption of
a public magistrate, or lash the viees and
follies of any public officer, would be a
bold and hazardous attempt. That power
ful obligation—th£ love of fame, or the
fear of being handed to polterity as a vil
lain, would lose all its wholesome effe&s
It is a falfe sentiment, that a man may be
di/honeft and vicious in his private life, and
▼et be goad and virtuous in his public ca
paoity. It is impossible ia the nature of
things. The propenfityof the human mind
to vice or virtue will be the fame in all sit
uations. Is it poftible that a judge can be'
firm and independent in the feat as juftiee,
who is weak and 'servile in the direftion of
his domestic affairs ? Is it possible, that an
officer, who would not hefitat* ta cheat his
private creditors, would hesitate to cheat the
public ? The private vices of men in office
may, therefore, on many occasions with
propriety be held up to public view ; and
yet ta do this by writing, printing and pub
lishing is by lav) to be guilty of a libel. ■
The only sensible dillin&ion made by the
chief juftiee on this fttbjeft, is—" that men
have only to take care in their publications,
that they are decent, candid, and true."—
Truth and candour are well known terms ;
but decency conveys rather an indefinite
idea. If by indecency is meant obfeenity
in a libel upon a private individual, it is
justly to be checked and punished. But if
by indecency is meant impudence in telling
bold truths of men ia office it ought to be
allowed. But this sentence of his honoris
rather a falfie gloss given to the fubjeft,
for he n>ull have known what is certainly
the law, that truth is no jollification in a
prosecution for a libel. It is well known
that a man may be punished for publilhiug
what is literally true ; and this too, for the
very reason, which his honor has laid down ;
because it will infallibly the person
libelled " to public hatred, contempt, or
ridicule which carries with it another
somewhat better reason, Which is, that it
tends immediately to a breach of the peace.
There is no getting rid of this abfttrdity,
but by making the liberty of the press con
lift in truth, and the liecntioufncfs of it in '
#
fulfeliocd ; or, what is a much fliorter lueta
<ml, by adopting the laws of ?he Turks, an J
suppressing all printing and publishing what- ■
ever. In which latter cast, it is very cer- |
tain, that there could be no libels.
Further, th? opinion of lti» honor, " that
every thrijliin&r geqlleipan ought to"se high
ly offended a' tiie parnpiilets and news-pa
pery of Philadelphia," is very exceptioaa
l,le, for two reasons Frft, that expressing
hiipfelf in thofcterms, which the French na
tion have long ago rejeCtefl,. the one as fu
perltitious, the other as feudal, 1 " his (as he
fays) ail rvuleiit (endbocy not only to fruf
trate a reconciliation, but to ereate a rup
tuit* and provoke a war between the filler
-republics." , Aud lecondlv, that this whole
paragraph of.ln's charge is a literal and
bal copy ps one in a paper o: tiff Spectator ;
arid which, therefore, may tend ilill further
to giye hi ft of displeasure to our
sri al!y. This is lure observed, not
with any intention of accufnig his honor of
grofa plagiarism, but of (hewing, that what
Sir. Addifon has remarked of the Engii(h
nation', at the time in which he wrote his
Spectators, does not apply to the state of
Pennsylvania. WhAi those periodical pub
lications took place, the Englifc nation
were the only people upon the furface of
the earth, who enjoyed even a rational (hare
of civil liberty. It is not so with Pecnfyl
vania. Other states ps the Union, it may
be ftippofed, enjoy the liberty of the piefs
in as ample a manner as that state. Aqd
who does not know that where there is one
libel puWlifhed in Philadelphia, thee are, at
l«aft,-> one hundred in the city of London ?
Besides, if libels are not rtow known, nay do
not abound undei any of the governments
of Europe, particularly under that of our
" sister republic," it is only a proof, that
thofc governments are not free ; for libels
are -8 n?turally the growth of free govern
ments, as. weeds are of manure. The state
|p Pennsylvania is not, therefore, in this re
speCt, eharaCtenftifi'ally different " from all
the states a'rotffid It, 4>V from the whole civil
ized world."
But, is it not extraordinary that a judge
(hould think it his duty to call a Fritter te
account fur writing and publifhiug against a
nation, who have used every endeavour to
sap the foundations of our excellent coaftitu
tion and form of government, have foment
ed an insurreCtion in the very bosom of our
country, and have nptorioufly plundered our
citizens oftwfcnty fivemillions of Dollars,and
and that too without condefcendingto lifteu
to us upon the subjeCt I—And yet, that this
fame judge, when another Printer of the
fame place was "Vilifying arid 'abusing without
the least fhadffWof truth, our great and good
Washington, could fit with the most torpid
indifference ; and still continues in that state
of torpidity, while this fame Printer is still
publishing the grossest calumnities aginft the
officers and measures of our own government.
How fuch*partiality, not to fay corruption
of the worll kind, could be relilhed by the
people of A erica," is ytt to appear. It
may bejrationally supposed, that their tho'ts
• on this fyVijcct will be, that the time" is al
ready come, when the teat of our federal go
vernment ought to be removed, cfpecially
from untfer the jurifdiCtien offneb a judge.
It tempts me to apply what Lord Mansfield
said of an inferior magistrate on a fimilaroc
cafion.—" it makes onebleed to think that
the administration of justice should be in such
hands,"— HORTENSIUS.
WASHINGTON LOTTERr, No. II-
List of Prizes 4nd Blanks.
138 th day's Drawing—OA. 18.
No. Dels. No. Dots. No. Dais.
4»9 144*7 X 27349 IO 39795
*55 * 7»5 * ' *(>9 1
1065 9is 576 908
386 100 934 x 964 4CIIO
918 I5!19 »"i-067 x 96? x
2189 x 387 x 167 41061 x
517 ■
7'i * 834 437 ~ 319 x
3*99 975 7a,! x 364 50
495 * 718 851
537
831 * 57 6 79'98 * 49» *
3061 17009 809 x 6*l x
574 54* -30548 9 T 4
6997 714 x 598 x 43 r(8 x
810 ißats 29 682 4406S
767.5 cio 31393 x 45934
786 097
5049 * B's * 32T.31 3.J4
05 J 19637 524 346 X
; 334 859 * Ifß x 458
4(9 88t 23066 576 x
6 3s 20363 86* 715
972 * 539 34-328 867
10856 5-62 x 457 961
93* 11463 5'4 46205
11134 837 698 x J47
»5» 9<c 824 * 326
602 223-8 87; 25 572 x
824 13007 25H3 x 728 x
ISIOS x ' 429 x ja6 47665 x
146 456 x 499 757 x
316 as 798 x 567 x 4.8134
•3334 *44*2 x 36288 ' 332 X
7C7 x 910 20 '476 840
74$ *549) ; 31074 4985*
14074 x 88t '370 x
391 X 26548 X 39502
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
EPOR.T 6f the Committee of thfc House of
'Repr« United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report .Articles of Impeachment
against VCILU\M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, high crimes and mlf-
ip purfu.\pce>of a resolution of
the Houftf of rK .t vt s ; authorizing th« said
Committee tfc Ht difpri§ thrr receft v>f Congreft, iind
inftruiUiig thv-to tnlquire, ahH, hy all lawful
means, to JifcoVcr th- Wtftie nature and extiot
" of the'cflFcnc : hereof the laid William slonnt
" fluids intywache.., and who arc tlw and
u a(Toc»ates therein "
Printed by order of the House of Rep refen tutiues. I
December a© $
A peifon well acquainted with
th« theory and pradiceof boolc-keeping, who his keen
manyyearjcDga^edinbulintfstcrhimfd! andothcrt,
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent
or' fsSor ;or in polling books; dating unfe;t!ed
accounts ; or in esetutijig any other kind of writ
ing, in French pc
A note adJrefjfcd to U, and kit at this odke,
will be puaduaftf :ttend«i to.
novembsr 39. 3»wtf
CONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
t
WFONESDAV JANUARY 3.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavorable report upon
the petition of Peter L3rtdais, who prayed
for an additional allowance for hi 3 services.
The report was concurred in by the houft.
Mr. Thatcher prefeWed a petition from
John Bradley and othei poftmafters
in the (late of MafFachufnts, stating that
when they rectived tfceir authority, and
gave bonds for the due performance of their
offiue, it was understood that they were
not to be accountable for the lufs of bank
notes, or other valuable papers which pair
ed through their offiees, but that a legal de
cision had lately taken place whieh had de
termined that the po.t officers were liable
for all fueh lodes ; which determination, it
was'apprehended, would fubje& them to be \
speculated upon by designing persons, who
might alledge they had sent notes, Sic. by
the psft, which ntverhad been.sent. They
pray, therefore, that when the poll office
law (hall come under consideration, a clause
may be mferted in it, declaratory of the
law in this refpeft.— Referred to the com
mittee on poft-offices and post roads.
Mr. Bayard presented another remon
(lranee from citizens of the state of Dela
ware, against changing the time for holding
the diftrift court..— Referred to the fame
committee to which the mefTage of the Pre
fideut on this fubjeft was referred.
Mr. Harper, from the committee ef way)
and means, to whom was referred a resolu
tion on the expediency of admitting licen
ces for distilling spirits to be, taken for a
week, reported it as the opinion of that
committee, that the proposition ought not
to be adopted. The report was twice read,
and referred so the fame committee of the
whoile to whom was referred the bill vela,-,
tive to the duty on spirits.
Mr. Dawfon reported a bill te provide for
■the payment of the interest of a certificate
given by the United States t® general Kof
ciufko, which was twice read and commit
ted for to-morrow.
Mr. Harper, from the committee appoin
ted to consider the fuhjeA of a Bankrupt
law, was dire&ed by the committee to pre
fect the repot t which he had laid before the.
house the day before yefterdoy. It was in
the fallowing words :
" The committee to whom war referred the
following resolution—" Resolved, that a
committee be appointed to prepare and
report a bill for eftabliihing an uniform
fyftera of bankruptcy throughout the U
nited States," having taken the matter
into consideration, beg leave to submit
the following REPORT :
" In so complicated, and as refpels this
country, so new a fubjeft, as a system of
bankruptcy, it ir.uft be expected that many
difficulties will occur, that jnany objections
will an'le~and that"flfany doubts will be en
tertained, as to the possibility, and even as J
to thr advantage*, ef such an establishment.
Such doubts and difficulties have presented '
themselves forcibly to the committee, even
in this preliminary stage of the business ; :
but, without Undertaking ta decide how far
it may be prafticable to surmount them,
they conceive that the attempt ought to be
made. They are of opinion, that this insti
tution is greatly desired by the mercantile
part of the community, on which it is cal
culated more peculiarly to operate ; and
they can fee no reason to doubt of its bene
ficial effefts, in the support of mercantile
credit, the prevention of fraud, the restraint
of imprudent and deftrudlive speculation,
and the relief of honest industry, reduced to
distress by the viciflitudes of trade, provided
it can be adopted under such modifications
as may obviate the objections, and prevent
the abuses, whereto it is supposed to be lia
ble.
" Whether this can be accomplished, is,
in the opinion of the committee, to be as
certained only by the introduflion and full
difcuffioti of a bill, where every provision
may be brought ipto view, and all those de
tails presented by which the.benefits offuch
an institution are to be resulted, and it&w*
convfcniencies avoided. When the difficul
ties attending this measure (hall have been
fiiirly encountered, Aieuld they be found
insurmountable, the public, it is prefumcd,
having the reasons of the deciiion fully be
fore them, will acquiesce in it with more
cheerfulnefs. The states, too, in that cafe,
knowing that congress have considered the
fubjeft, and found it impracticable, on a
scale so extensive as the whole union, will
no longer be prevented, by expectations
from that quarter, from attempting local
sftabliftiments for themselves.
" The committee are therefore of opinion
that it is expedient to adopt the afore said
resolution."
The report having been read, Mr, Har
per moved that it have a feeond reading for
the purpose of being concurred with, which
motion being carried 43 to 27 ; and the
house having concurred with the report, a
committee of five members was appointed
to report a bill accordingly^
Mr. Harper from the committee of ways
and means, reported a bill for making Jeer
tain partial appropriations for the fervicc of
the ytar 1798, and for other purpose!*/
which was twice tead, and ordered to be
committed s o a committee of the whole to
d-y.
On motion, the house immediately refolv ;
ed itfelf into a committee of the whole on
this bill, Mr. Kittera in the chair; when,
the bill havitig been read,
Mr. Var.ium wilhed to be informed as to
the captures which had beeu made from the
British, within the waters of the United
States. He thought there could not be
many of this description.
Mr. Harper said, if the gentleman would
tnrn.to the letter of the Secretary of the
Treasury on this fubjeft, he would find two
awardi of til!d description had ijresdy beerr
amounting to 24,921 dollars,
r .hat others were expedted to be made, or
. iliight now be made, which would require
the remainder of the sum proposed to be
granted. Tlii number of vessels which tame
under this article he never understood to be
ttee of grear. He never heard of more than four
t upon or five. '
prayed Mr. Varnum did not feel willing to ap
ervices. propriate a larger sum than was necessary to
! house. meet the awards already made. It would be
n from time enough to appropriate for other award*
tmafters when they were made,
ng that Mr. Harper read an extradt from the let—
y, and ter of the Secretary of the Treafnry on this
of their Subject. The vessels already awarded for
y were were, he said, the Jane and Lovely Las» ;
if bank the remainder of the' sum was by estimate;
ch pall- When the other awards would be made was
?gal de- uncertain ; they might be already made, or
had de- they might not be made for a u:w weeks.
c liable but whenever they were determined, it was
ition, it proper there should be money in the Treafu
:m to be ry t« meet the demand ; and if it were not
is, who 1 wanted, it would, of course, go to the fur-
Ac. by plus fund.
:. They The committee rose and reported the bilL
I office The house took it up; when
a clause Mr. Varnum moved to strike out the sum
of the of J2,000 dollars, in order to infe'rt 24,921
he com- the amount of the awards made.
Mr. Lyon fecond<d the motion,
remon- Mr. Coit said, that the made pr«pofed by
f Dela- the bill, was the orderly course .of deing bn
holding finefs, which was, to hare money in the
lie fame Treasury to meet demands against the go
the Pre- verment as they became due. With refpedt
to the 24,921 dollars already due, the ordi
of way) nary mode had been departed from, as the
refolu- awards were made in Odiober last, but were *
5 licen- not paid for want of money. He presumed
n for a gentlemen did not wish to introduce a new
of that system in the money tratifadtions ms Gorera
ght not ment ; if not, they would agree to the bill
ice read, as reported.
of the Mr. Bayard said, if theymeant tdpreferre
ill i:tda,- : the good faith of the nation, it was necefl!P~~~
* ry to make the appropriation pfupofed by
ivide for the bill. To (hew this, Mr. B. read an
■rtificate eKtradt from the British treaty, in which it
ral Kof- was stipulated that, " the amount
commit- of the awards should be paid at the
time and places fpecified." But if money
appoin- were not appropriated for the pwrpofe, this
bankrupt could not be done.
:to pre- Mr. Varnum replied, that if it should be '
fore the. necessary to appropriate this money during
was in the prtfent session, it was uot necessary "to
appropriate it in this bill. He wished it to
rred the appear in the general appropriation bill.
1, that a Mr. Kittera (aid, the fame reasoning
>are and wouid apply in refpeft to the 100, too dol
uniform lars proposed to supply the deficiencies in
t the U- former appropriations, as though that sum
: matter was wanted far the service of the year 1798,
I submit it was not all wanted immediately, though
it might be necessary before the general ap
ets this propriation could be made,
jrftem of Mr. Lyon said, if he had the fame infor
at many mation yith refpedl to the ioo,oeo dollars,
Drjc&i«nß which he had rrlarire to th« other funis, he
II be en- should be equally opposed t*i tr "TfS Tifiped
even 4s the 24,921 dollars would be agreed to, and
ifhment. that they should net have much more money
resented to' pay on this account,
ee, even The motion for ftrikingout was put and
tufinefs ; negatived, there being only 23 votes in fa
how far vour of it.
it thera, The bill was ordered to be engrossed for
;ht to be a third reading to-morrow,
his infti- Mr. -Harper moved the order of the day •
rfrcaatile on the bill to amend the several adts for lay
tis cal- ing a duty on spirits distilled within the li
te ; and nited States, and on flills ; which motion
its bene- being agreed to, the house rcfoived itfelf in
ercantrle to a committee of the whole on thefubjeft,
restraint Mr. Kittera iw the chair. The bill being
:ulation, read,
iuced to Mr. Macon said, that the report *t the
provided committee of ways and means, on the pro
ficatious position for allowing distillers to takelicen
. prevent ces for a week, having been referred to that
;o be lia- committee, if it were taken up at all, this
was the proper time. He should, therefore,
shed, is, propose an additional fedtion to the bill, to
0 be as- embrace this objedt. Mr. M. accordingly
and full presented a fedtion to allow of weekly li
jrovifion cenccs.
;hofe de- This motion produced a considerable de
-1 offuch bate. It was opposed by Messrs. Sewall,
id it&w» Grifwold, Gallatin, Gordon ani Brooks, oa
difficul- the ground that the duty now paid upon
ire been spirits distilled from fruft (which defcnptidn
e found of distillers this regulation was avowedly |n
efumtd, tended to accommodate) was not equal to
Fully be- that paid by distillers of grain, as the duty <
•h more on spirits distilled from fruit was not more
hat cafe, than 2\ cents per gallon, whilftr that on fpi-<
ered the rits dfltilled from grain paid seven cents, and
,e, on a if the amendments were agreed to, this ine
on, will quality would be increased, for gerfous who
:£tations took a licence for a week, by preparing their
!ng local materials beforehand, andworking night an 4
day, would fiuifh the.r bufinel's within that
opinion time, which otherwise would have
afore said a fortnight ; by which means the duty
would be reduced from fix cents per gallon-,
r. Har- on the capacity of their stills to four ; that,
iding for it'would increafc the temptation to fraud,
1, which as that temptation was strong or the con
and the trary, in propor.ion to the length of tims
eport, a for which a licence was taken, as a person
ppointed taking a licence for a fortnight, by wyrkinr*
his flill one day pall the time fpecifjed in Ilia
of ways licence would gain half a cent a gallon on
ing Jeer- the capacity of his {till, whilst he who took.
;rvice of out a licence it r fix months would only gam
urpofeS/ half that sum ; if licences for a weejf were
ed to be allowed, the temptation would therefore. b~
vhole to increased ; that fuc'n a regulation would
greatly augment the duties of excise officers,
ly refolv ; without rendering any material advantages
vhole on to individuals, fi'.ice if th» owner of a ftilf
j when, of 50 gallons took out a licence for a f«r;-
night, when a week might have fcrved, he
ed as to would only have paid a dollar raorp than he
from the would have paiJ" for a week ; Ihat when
United this fwje of duties was made, reference was
1 not be had to the fituatioo of persons who would
be obliged to take out a licence fcr a fort
in would night, though they might not have fruit to
y of the 1 mploy a fti'i more than a few,days, and a
find two rate proporiionably low adopted ; tfcat thetime rcifons which were urjed for allowing nor to i
Vceocea for a week, might be urged tor al- Peimfyh
lowing oae fu-r tw.i days ; that theogh there ' chair, n
might be some inconveiiitnces experienced
by the dift'Uers of fruit, as«it was not doubt
ed there might be in'other parts of the law,
yet, as it was only jull got into operation, it Dr.
YTDuld not he right to enter into the pro- vid Jon
posed regulation, but defer it to the period the pa
when it would mod probably be necefTary which
to go into a review of the whole law. he wa *
Thf motion was supported by Messrs. Ma- and res
con, Haicrifon, Harper, J. Parker, Nicholas, Dr.
Venable, R. Williams, New, Dennis, T. beth J
Claiborne and Clay. It was asserted by Bedku
tbem, that the law as it now stood excluded ges dt
four out of five of the orchards in the sou- which
thern states from distilling their early fruit mittee
at all ; that their peaches ripened Mr.
and as hastily rotted, if n»t made use of; exande
th»t persons whe had only fruit to employ for tar
their stills for three or four days, sooner than to Cor
take a licence for a fortnight, fuffered their read a:
fruit to rot ; that to allow licences for a Mr.
week would produce a confutable augn.en- numbe
tation of the reverse, fir.ee those persons Count
only would' take such a licence, who, it c.ared
that privilege wer<* not allowed, would not pence
take out a licence at all, or such as has oc- dered
cafion to dia.il for a few days longer after Mr.
their fortnight licence was expired ; that it numbt
was unjust to require a man who had only a Count
small orchard, and occasion to use a dill but by dec
a few days, IWd pay a higher duty upon refern
hie Brandy than his more opulent neighbor A 1
that it was not so incoufiderable an objeft monw
as gentlemen supposed, since it tad not re- diftriL
ferenee to one licence only—farmers iu the the U
fouther# states having occasion to take out lie on
separate licences for their early, their mid- Th
qie and their latter fruits ; that this regula- for m
tion would, not open a door to fraud as was bers <
f.jppofed ; that it was as undeserved impu- Senat
tation . upon the characters of persons con- they
cerned in tkis business, to suppose tbey Houl
could be tempted to defraud the revenue Tl
for the fake of half a cent per gallon upon tee o
what they could distil in a day ; that the the (
penalties consequent upou fraud, if the vir- ere£V
tue of the persons concerned could not be Schu
relied upon, were fufficient to guard against; prog
them ; and that, if they were n«?t, it could was j
not be expe&ed, as some gentlemen seem-
ed to suppose, that the Excise Officers
ffiould overlook the conduct of every diftill
,er ; that if they were to be so infpectcd and _ A
scourged, an attempt to defraud the revenue t'ne
could scarcely b« blamed ; that except it Lag'
were the intention of gentlemen to crush Q
this domeftie manufactory, no leafonable what
objeftion could be urged against the propo- 27 tti
fition ; that the objeftions which had been t ht ]
urged proved the ignorance of gentlemen in arr j v
refpeft to this branch of business ; that t j, e <
though the excise officers would have more cerS!
trouble in ifTuing licences, it was believed Huj
they would be well fatisfied to encounter
it, since their profits we're in proportion to thin
the quantity of, spirits distilled ; that tho' t }) e
this law had been but a short time in being, one
the last season having been a scarce fruit whi
feafvn had giveaa good opportunity of try- t het
ing it ; that as the application for the a- f a ;i;
mendment waa fecouded by the whole of the | t eri
fcutbern croutitry, entoled to refp-eft,
and ougnt not,to be branded with being a mu i
f fraudulent defignupon the revenue. the
In the uouri'e of (hi 9 debate. Mr- Gallatin I
called upon gentlemen acquainted with the bu- Qn
finefs to fay what wi. the quantity of fpmts | .
which could be distilled from peaches m a week I
by a still of the capacity *f io, 40 or 50 gallens, wit
with a view to (hew that this species of spirits j fell
paid less at present than spirits distilled from j on
grain. ■ . I coi
Mr. Clay answered this enquiry, by laying I cer
that a still «f 50 gallons would distil from five J .
to seven gallons of brandy a day- If the wea- I
ther was wet, and the peaches rotted quickly, I
not more than five ; but when the weather was tio
dry, and the peaches found, seven gallons might we
be produced. 1 we
The question on the amendment was at length I
put, and carried, 45 to 37- I , •
Mr. Dentns said, he withed to try another I nis
principle in this bill. The law at present re- I crc
quired an annual entry of stills, whether they bit
were ufedor not, which «ccafioncd persons frs- I p Q
quently tp ride io or jo miles to make the en- I
try, when they had no intentiun to make use j .
of their fliil : and not unfrequently, from not
meeting with the officer at luyne, their jour- 1
ney was taken two or three times «ver. In- j tic
deed, he believed, more peusltits had been in- I pu
curre'J'6ll aceount of this regulation than any j 0 p
other, and he looked upon it as ar. useless regu- I mi
lati»n..-" When a mil was once entered, he tho t I
it was fufficient. and no future entry ought to I ,
be required, except when a still was about to I
be itiade use of, or when it was transferred into j
ether hands. Mr. D. propefed a feflion to this I
- effefl but after some objeitions to the intro- j u
of so important a provision into this 1
bill (which, before it could be decided upon, |
would require considerable difcuflion) by Mess.
Hartley, Gallatin and Harper, he agreed t6
withdraw it for the present.
It having been agreed to fill the blank of the ,ls
sum per gallon to be paid on the capacity of a
still, when a licence was taken for a week, with "1
Jour lents, the committee rose, the house took I fil
up the amendments, agreed to thenv, and the 1
hill was ordered to be enjrefied for a third read- I
ing to-morrow. Adjourned. I B
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE
House of Reprisentatives
jauvart 1.
Mr. Carpenter presented a petition from a „
number of the citizens of Warwick and Roeo y
in Lancajler County, praying those two town- n
/hips miy he ertSed into a separate election di- I
flria, -which was read and referred to the J
Membefi from that County,
Mr. Power presented a petition from a
numler of the citizens of Allcghenny county re.
Jid'mg in the neighbourhood of French Creek
praying the aid of the Legislature to render that v
creek navigable, which was read and referred f
to the Committee on roads & inland navigation. 1
Mr. N. Perron presented three petitions t
figne'd by upwards of two hyjidred of the citi
xens ofTtrk County, praying a divifwn of the _
County, which were read & referred to the
Cotnmittee already named.
Several other petitions were presented. ,
The House resolved itftlf into a Committee t
sis tie whole on the Bill to authorise the Goner-, 1
nor to com'wjjion the enjhier of iht Bank of .
Pennsylvania, a notr.ryp-jbh-, Mr'. Ball iftlhie „
cliatr, mhich was negativea.
Adjourned.
January g.
" Dr. Leib presented a petition from Da- \
vid Jones, praying to be exonerated from imp
tke payment of a certain sum cf money of By
which he was robbed In the year 1789 when yolcrs
he wat collector of taxes, which was read the Si
and referred to a committee. a '"f r - c
Dr. Leib presented a petition from Eliza- of
beth Bedkin, widow cf the late Captain Cs[
Bedkin, praying the payment ®f arreara- qaenci
ges due her late husband for cloathing, °f * n
which was read and referred to the com- era. ui
mittee of claims. count 1
Mr. Heron presented a petition from Al- , t,lre
exander M'Do well, praying Gompei)(atiou apprcl
for fnrveying certain tra£ts of land granted . comna
to Ccrnplanter a Seaecca chief, which was 1 their
read and referred to a committee. j
Mri Evans presented a petition from a levera
number of the citizens as Montgomery j above
County, praying certain roads may be de- j alarm
clared Hate roads, and supported at the ex- j Or
pence of the State which vras read and or- dated
dered to lie on the table. ! tare '„
Mr. Stairbird presented a petition from a the r
number of citizens from Northampton been
County, praying that Smithfield creek may fuade
by declared a highway, which was read and two 1
referred to the members of the county. j ted*
A letter from the Secretary of the Com- havin
monwealthy containing a schedule of the O'
. distribution of the laws of the State and of but t
: the United States, was read and ordered co to th
t lie on the table. > pom
The Clerk of the Senate returned the bill queit
. for making compensation to certain mem
s bers of the late Legislature, &c. which the
- Senate pasTed with amendments, to which ;
- they requested the concurrence of the
f House. ke,
e The house resolved itfilf into a commit- t>v l*
a tee of the whole, on the bill to authorize
e the Governor to incorporate a Company for ® n ~,
•- ereftiitgf a permanent Bridge over the river B
a Schuylkill, the committee rose, reported B arl
11 progress and asked leave to fit again, which j " ve i
d was granted for to morrow. I to *'
!" - Tr 4
I PORTSMONTH, (N.H.) Dec. 20. t ,
d Arrived here on Friday last, the "brigan- a
ie tine Maria, capt. Walfh, 36 days from 3
It Laguira.
ft Capt. Walfli informs, in confirmation ®f _
' e what has already been published, that on the *
3 " 27th Sept. during.hi* detention at Laguira, .
; n the Hermione an English frigate of 36 guns '
' n arrived at that port under Spanish colours, S e >
at t j, e crew of which had risen upon the offi- OWI
re cers, and inhumanly murdered the captain,
:d Hugh Picket, the firft lieutenant. Reed,
er the second lieutenant, Fofliaw, and the in |
to third lieutenant, the do&or, the Purser,
°* the captain of Marines, the captain's clerk, *
£» one midshipman, and the boatfwaia—after
J 't which they elefted officers from among w
'y- thepifelvts, and then made prisoners of the
*■ j failing matter, one mid(hipman, the carpen- P n
I ter, gunner, cook and boy, those being
j thje only ones fViat would not aflift in the
\ 8 mutiny ; prior to their coming into port "
they sent in a flag of truce, and offered to
tm I deliver the (hip to the Spanish government, 011
b . Q " lon condition of receiving the full amount of P c
I their wages, which being readily complied P"
ins, I with, the commandant of the port took pof
riti I session of her, and the English sailors went P e
ora Jon shore.—The plea they made for their S r
I conduct was cruel treatment from the offi- i!
I cers, which, however cruel, can never fanc-
VC I tion the abominable crime of murder. It cr
t l yi J has been said they were a mixture of all na- ™
was I tions —yet we are assured that those who b .'
ight I were principally concerned in the business 11
I were fubje&s of Great Britain.
I Capt. Walfh further informs, that before
her I his arrival at Laguira, there had been a fe- £(
rt- I cret plan in agitation to rife against the ar-
hey I bitrary government the mother country im-
fr'" I poses on them, to bring about a revolution, j
e "~ I —and tho' many of the principal officers
1 there were concerned in this plan, ow-
our- I ' n g to some unfortunate event, their inten- j
In-1 tions were difcovertd, which has at present t ]
1 in- put a flop to the business, but it is still the
any I opionion of the inhabitants there, that this a
e S'J- I momentary check will only give time for n
' 1 more vigorous meafurts in effe&ing what a
t ° I they have long ardently wifbed for. f
into I 7_r 1
thi« I Valuable Books,
I Just received by the Fai* America* from
'I London, and now opening and felling by f
Sclr J- Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. f
Jt6 CATALOGUES
Of the newly imported books may be had gra- j
f ,ji t tis. These added to O's ui'ual stock, form an
of a 1 £xte«f»ve and elegant xolleflion of ancient and _
with modern literature, and comprise booki in fun- '
took I dry languages and an various fubje&s.
rea< i- j This Say u PuhliQitd, j
:d. IBy J. Ormrod, (Price 7$ cents, handsomely
I bound and lettered, and embellilhed with an t
T RE 1 elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind, 1
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
I Being a valuable collegian of intending and '
r*m a miscellaneous incidents,'calculated to exhibit to
Roco young minds the happy eft"eift» «f youthful in
'aivn- nocence and filial sßtiiion—ln prole and verte.
in d(- t)efigncd to improve and amuft the rising geiie
-0 the « tion -
In the Press, and will be fneedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
om a Plan of Female Education.
% rt [ Suhfcriptions for this incunipirable work will
Creet jj e thankfu"y reeeived by the printer. The book
r that w jH cont. m ibout thiee hundred pages, will be
ferred printed wun a new type on fine piper, and de
ation. livercd to subscribers r.raily bounH, letrered and I
'itiani embellifhcd with an elegant t' r ontifpiece, for one
< «'>- dO, , ljr '
of the j4 "'" ry 3 '
to the Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Good% Wares, and Mer
chandize, in.ported into the United States—latest
]mittee edition, to be fold by JOHN OR no. 4 ,
rover"', Chainut-ftrtet. D*c. 16
>m—i m . 111 1
IT . . , li-. r t
By tiiis • ,of ih
_ j lrr>nQ<
NEW-YORK, January 3. | veflfc
1 R
From the Daily Alvtrt'ifcr. \ aui'.n
IMPORTANT ADVICES fROM xv
By the jjftg ftufctta ca j>° V'Tylee, arrived "
yesterday from Kj"re, which place (he left 311
the Sth of November, aJv.oes l>f that Jate the
are received from thence, <l:id from Paris, the
of the 3d of that minfV. ■ tions
Capt. Tylee left Havre hastily in confe- , W
quence of appreheufioiu there whic
of an immediate embargo ; and of the gen- , '»g>
era! unfavorable complexion of affairs in that / then
country. He has dated fqrther, that a rup- 1 e3 ;
tore between France jind this coutitry was >■
apprehended—and that the situation of o6r of tV
[ commiflioners at Paris was Unfavorable to
»I their views. ' . A
In opposition to this, there &fe ity a
, several letters received in this eity.jjy tffe Ami
r I above vessel, which do not hold out these at P
. | alarming apprehensions. Ami
. ! One from a refpe&able heufi at Havre, that
- dated on the day or capiain Tylee's depar- won
; tare, closes with the following " Altho' prot
i ' the American commiflionera have not yet foor
[i been admitted to the direftory, we are per- quel
yr fuaded there will be no VfAR between the new
i two nations: it is mere likely that the Uni-, who
ted will in future be cpnfider?d as a nation coul
- having no treaty with u»." _
e '' Our commifiioners had been preferited ; 01
if but the utmost secrecy prevailed wich respect St.
0 to the objeft ps their mifßon. It was re- vou
! ported they had sent home dispatches re- Par
11. quelling additional inftr/ftiona.
1-
ie From tht Argus. re< !
h IMPORTANT NEWS. ( the
i e ! Yesterday the brig Rofetta, captain Ty- afte
lee, in 35 days from Havre de Grace, at- poi
t rived at this port with news of
!e PEACE WITH THk EMPEROR, cei;
3r and-other'important circum dance's. Tr<
er By this vefffW.ehave been Favoured with |
.J Paris papers to ttie 3d of November inclu- me
: h five, and proceed, vyiih *ll peffible dispatch, hac
to lay the outlines before the public, the
Po
X Trjnflated for the Argus, from " The His- coi
torical and Political Gazette of France
n- and Europe, dated at Paris, Nov. 2 and M
»m 3. 1797- thl
PARIS, Nov. 2.
of EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY.
Extraft frem their minutes, Oftober 31. R'
ra General Berthier, tht friend and compan- CI
in | ion ia arms of Buonaparte, and citizen Mon
rg ge, a man of fcieuce, to whom, the arts
g' owe the most precious collection «f the mo- br
numents of Italy, enters ansidft th« utmuft pi
-d' applauses, condufted by the ministers of the 2<
* interior and exterior relations. ca
r Citizen Berthier advances towards the di- w
reftory, holding an OLIVE BRANCH in rc
ter s hand, the symbol cf the PEACE,
which he came to announce,
the Theminifter of the exterior relations,
, en . presenting them, in fp«k»'g of the firft, G
j|S§j " I have the honor to present t» the !j
t executive direftors of the republic, citizen n
tQ Alexander Berthier, charged .by cttir*?i Bu- tl
t onaparte to hear th& definitive treaty,. of S
tof P eace » concluded between the French re- "
iied public and the emperor. , t
r_ " This advantage, or rather this recom- a
, ent penfe, was due to the general who bore so -
heir S reat 3 P art ' n l^e prodigies of the army cf
offi- Ital Y-"
Here follow* a lengthy eulogiiian on the
j t eharafter of Berthier and Monge —after
[ na J which, general Berthier, holding an olive
w j, o branch in his hand, presents it tb the execu
nefß tive direftory and fays :
" Citixess Direftors, f
" Sent by citiien Buonaparte to bear to s
f° rc you this Olive Branch, foglorioufly purchaf
-1 ed and supported by 581 battles of the ar
,ar" mies of the republic, and amoag which we
'. m " may count near as many vi&ories, we have ,
d c i; vere< l t 0 your president the treaty of
leers p eaC g concluded between French Re
ow" public and the Emperor, on the ?7thVen
,ten" demaire (Oft. 17.) signed at Pafferiano, in
£ the centre of the French Camps,
lithe £The miniftei" concludes this address, by
this a recapitulation of the glories and atchiev
: or ments of the heroes of the Italian army- ind
w 'hat an ti c ipates the happiness whicti will result
from fa advantageous a peace.]
PARIS, Nov. 3.
from Yesterday arrived an express it 40 hours
)g by from London ; but the contents of the dif
eet. patches had not transpired.
Last night the illuminations were general
S ra " in consequence or thehappy tidings of Peace
-m an w j t k t jj C E m peror. * The Directorial palace
ii' fun e u-> were t h e most conspicu
ous. On this bridge many patriotic songs
were sung, and the rejoicing appeared to be
general throughout the city,
omely MENTZ has been definitively delivered
ith an U p ? a nd our troops have taken poffeffipn,
cuts.) New eonfpiracics had taken place at Ve
[ind, nice, in which a correspondence of the Em
peror had been seized, with the lift of con
spirators. Fifty officers, among those most
' an(s devoted to the Imperjal system, had been
ibit to taken up and confined in fort St. George.
Ful in- Their intentions were to deliver up the city
vent, to the Emperor.
> gene-
Extraft of a letter from a gentleman in Havre
"'(bed, tQ j rcfpeftable mercantile totife in this
city, received by ths.Rqfetta. ■%, v
"Havre, 6th Nov. 1797.
ebuok " There is now a projeft of an absolute
b( . descent on England ! The immortal Bnt>n
fld de- ' paite is appointed commander in chief, on
ed and 1 this expedition. There is ta ba invnediate
for one ty a fiembW 120 theufand men between
Breftand Honfleur, as well as another .bo
-3- dvpf ico thousand men between this place
and Dunkirk.
' " Hanover will be immediately attacked,
—Uteft w h at will insure our success is, a fccret
n() J 4 _ article in eur treaty with
r-6 ' milling *f lur tro^T."
? - .... - . . -
The Rofetfa and the Nymph failed car- , G A
lit r than they fh-old have.done, on account |
of thcexpeftzifou, tliat an cmh.irgo would 1
immediately be laid 011 ali ovtwmd bound
veflels. i S °?
Reports circulate, that our envoys had an Dr, X
audience with minister of foreign affairs, j
in which the minister put this quef - i J
'• Are you injlruflrd to break iXHth ILnglund. '
—and on their,anfwering in the negative, '
the ininifter replied - "I am iliHru&ed by icbr
the Direftors, not to enter into negocia- £
tions on any othrr
We-do not underdid an* thing like that L '
which is liifertcd 111 tlie Dr*ii*r of last even- ~j
jr.T, viz.—" That strong evidences exifttd •"
there of the probality of a war with Amcri- l ~ a y s .
• °»g
---• *. *7
'The papers we receive no mention 1 c< "~
- , T • * ' an/,
of the American envoys. ,
A letter from a gentleman of refpeftabil- T/ 1 , 0 '
ity at Paris, who had resided a long time in *•_
America, received by the Rofetta, dated
at Paris, Oftober 24, announces, that the J™ m
American envoys had been received; ,
that he had no doubt, but that negociations '° ri
would go on well—and thnt there was a ec
probability that the differences would be 1 - om
soon adjusted; in consequence of which a oun
question arose on the fubjeft of fending a a
new legation to our countfr, the name of '
whom was mentioned in tht letter, but we y ' JI
could not obtain it. _ j'"'
Latclall evening, the brig Fox, captain V*
Young, arrived at this port in 61 days fiom
St. Malo. By this veftel We have beeu fa- u J l '
voured with a file of the " Surveillant," a
Paris paper to the 26th of Oftober,
PARIS, Oftober 26.
The Executive Direftory of France has 9 '
requested of the Republic of Holland, that narr '
they promptly repair their lrte maritime dif-
after 1 , and equip and put ti» sea, a» soon as
polfible, as many veffeli as they have loft.
One month more is allowed for the re
ceipt of the ratification «f the Portugal
Treaty.
"* £ A letter from Paris of the Ift of No*. A
. mentions, that the Portugitefe Ambassador
, had aftually been difimiffed} on acaountof
the non-reception of the rajificatiou «f the
Portugal Treaty —which letter is clearly
. contradiftory of the above.] 1J(
; The Americans were wsll treated at St.
I Maloj Capt. Y. left no American vessels
there.
Noel, French aeibafladot at the Batavian
. Republic, is recalled, and reinstated by
- Charles Delacroix.
,s The brig Franklin, from Greenock, has
1- brought Glasgow papers to Nov. 11, which
ft probably contain the king's speech, on the
e 2d Nov. and some local Eagli(h articles, but |
can contain nothing from France later than
i- we have given this day.—Entrafts to-mor
'n row - B
*' te
BOSTON, Dec. 28. M
s The Grand Turk—fife,
x Capt. Green, arrived here yesterday from
' Guadaloupe, taucbed at PortSind on Tuesday
last, and left there just got in, the ftiip Grand
,e fturhy capt. ka<! experienced so
:n many heavy gaits, and such «=» j
u- ther, as to have loft most ef lier failt and rig- j
of gingj an:i otherwise nfiueh i|jaicd : four fe»- ' c
, e _ men and the carpenter had l eeeully died on
board ; and but about eight ot ten of the crew t(
able to do duty. _
f" 1
c ° f %l)t <sa3ettet
he PHILADELPHIA,
:er
| ve THURSDAY EVENfSO, JANUARY 4.
11 1 ii.ii >
The mercantile advertifet of New-York t
fays, " the American Hotel at Havre, was (
to at the time capt. Tylee fajled, surrounded .
ar- by guards."
we From the fame source we learn that our
ave commissioners are rejefted by the French go
of
c _ vernment.
MARRIED —On Tuifday evening last
m by the Rev. Mr. Abercropbie, Mr. Dan
b in P. Knight, of this city, merchant, to
• . Miss Mary Withy, daughter of Mr.
James Witby of'Chefter. (
r.irt' 1
COMMUNICATION.
Mr. FENNELL,
" Made his firft appearalice on this stage
for three years," before as. brilliant a The
atre as ever assembled in Philadelphia—~the
U1 Boxes were crouded with the firft people in
tbecity, usque ad caelum. The repeated and
f ra constant applauses as the aidience, gave tef
laee timony at onc^to their taste, and the dif
tingnilhed merit of this great performer.—
K ' U ample justice was done to Dr. Young's " Re
'"vp vtnge." I have leldom seen a play better
° 6 cajl. It will be taken for granted that Mrs.
j Merry and Mr. Moreton were not deficient
Cre Mr. Fox played some parts of Carlos ve-
Ve- T particularly his sirs: interview with
Leonora, and gave the charafter a refpedt
con able support throughout. Zanga was all
that be ever glowed in the imagination of
been l^c oct —^ oun K never conceived the
hero of his play more perfeft, more inter
pj." efting, more awful, than he appeared in the
countenance, the deportment and the afto
nifning energy of Mr. Fennell. Many gen
avre tlemen of the most refined ansi elegant taste
this have mentioned to me, that they had no
idea of such powers of ailing, combined with
such chapty, such elocutioa, such propri
>lute ety'of gesture, voice and countenance. It
isobvious, that few charaftets lead more in
■ y n to ranting than Zanga, and therefore re
i'ate- quires the molt discriminating and chaste
wecn taste to avoid it, Mr. Fennell's bye-play
. b O . was appropriate ; his attitudes when he was
place were exceedingly interesting. We
trust that the talents ot' Mr. Fennell, will
•ked prove a large source of pleafttre to the pub
fecre t lie, of profit to the manages, and of honor,
p er . as well as profit to himlelf.
j " Scipio," No. Ill—to-JJiorrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LiS~ /J
J.tnuar* ?•
• AIHIVIO DA Y V_ -f
Signet, Jolr.f'jti, He>vre dc-Graic 6 J
2?r# JlofrttQ,
j /•*, 7"oung, St, Mato 61
Jane-Maria, Marjhall, Si. Thomas if\
Brilona,*, , Savannah
Franklin, • , . Greet*, k5 1
SrAr Dijpatch. Ctart, New-Orleans jci
Hvmtrcfs, Fitch, Savannah, I O
Sally, , Shelburne 6
Capt. Tylee, of the Rofttia, spoke t-wo vtf
fels form Hamburgh,for Ncwburyport.
Arrived, Brig Bride, eppi. Qaandrill ICI -
i/a_y.r frutn Rotterdam. 03. 21. /«/. 4° 4 1 •
33 , spoke the ship liberty, of and frum
New-Tori, bound to Tetttrfjt, out 20 days, all
■well. Dec. 11, at. 33 30. long, 75,fpoke
the trig Lucy from Neiu-Tort, bouna to St
Thomas, out 2 days, who fupp'lud us tuith a
bbls. *f beef and a bl. of bread.
Capt. Macey, of Schr. Archibald, 22 days
from Halifax, Dec. 12 /poke the brig Sally,
Capt. N- Phillips from Lcith, bound (0 Ncw-
Torh, out 62 days, -w£/ had on the 6'-h
Dec taken 22 men, from ihe -wreik of theJLip
Commerce, capt. H. Macey, from Grenada
bound to Boflon, -which they were obliged t»
abandon, having sprang a-leak.
Sl/ip Cygnet, Johnson, failed about 12 days
before the brig Rjfcttar—brig Nymph, iViTiams
fame day. Ship Minerva tvas to fail in 4
days—all of this port.
Bet-ween 20 and 30 out-ward bound vtffsl 's
left the harbor ycflerday marning for different
ports —-wind IV. N. IV.
Nov. 25. lat. 36. 56. long. 52,
Capt. Young spoke brig from Phil. t r J Malaga,
9 days out, blowing frefh could not ,obtain her
rtam:.
new theatre!
TO-MORROW EVENING,
I JANUARY J,
Will be presented the favorite COMEBY of
. ACU RE FOR /THE HE ART ACHE.
. To *WfW! will he added,
f LA FORET NOIRE.
e FOR S .LE, tr
r William Priestman,
119, South Front-flreet, next door to ilir CuE*
tom-hcufe,
i A large ajfirtment if .
Gold and filter Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
n Some plated Candlesticks
y Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, ffiah.ee
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Piliols, by Knubley, Chtnng
I® Croft
;h Rtflefling Telescope, by Ribrighc
ie Bex of patent Medicines
II I 60 lb. Scoteh Thread
to Small colledlion of valuable Books, and
r . Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky,
tented by Ptrcival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watthes bought.
' m January 4. 1
Z notice.
f° *LL persons who have any demands against
;• ! ill, eft,lc of U? 11.lam. «C
|8" Liverpoel, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceifed, are requested to, exhibit th<ir accounts,
on 1 properly nulled ; and those who are indebted
ew i to th« fame, are desired to make immediat®
payment, to
= GEO.bOBSON,
No. *5, So. 1 lurd-llrett. 5
January 4. _ "tf
Dropped last Evening,
about the Theatre.
Four dollars will be given to any person \fh»
t— will deliver to Mr. Ge rge Weed, at the sign of
3r k the White Horse, Market-street, a larg« parch.
ment Deed, given by Edmond Fhyfick, Esq. a*
,va3 gent for Meflrs. Penn's to David fowler, dated
led January z, 1798)
CJ-A dated meeting of the American
our Philofopiiical Society will be held at their
go- Hall on Friday the sth of January .inft.
when between the hours of two and five
o'clock p. m. the officers for the ensuing
last y ear w '^
a*- January 3. _______
»to Imported
M r * Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
Walput Stieet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
trifh market claret in cases ( Entitled t»
:age Medoc wine, in do. l" Drawback.
i*he- Sauterne, do. do. J
•the" Thomas Murgatrsffr.
' e WHO HAS FOR. SALE.
ant * Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
l( /~ Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
e ~ Aug. 24. tut&stf,
:tter 0
S Thomas Randall,
5 ve- PR ESENTS his refpedts to his Friends, and ths
svith u^''c in general, informs them that he hasopeni-H
~ an Office, athishoufe. No. 88, Sptucc street, for
ie the purpole of tranfailing business in the line of
> all Commillion and Agency, collecting rents and out»
1 of (landing claim* in any part of the United States.—«
the He flutters himfelf, that from his long refidsnce in
I j er _ oountry and a general knowledge of it, hisfcr
, cicss will be found worthy the notice of those who
t " # may' please to confide t« him the. maiiagement of
ado- any of their concsrns,
gen- N- B. Security given where required,
taste tithmo»4 3tawtf
tith " DANCING SCHOOL.
"P 1 , 1 ". TTTILLIAM M'DOUGALL cprrfcnis hit'
. VV molt complimtnts to his form- r
e ln * »r employed aixl th« citizens in general, and re
e re- turn 0 hit moil grateful, thanks, for the very
haste bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
■play tnefttwenty-five yejrs part, takes this opportu«
: was n '«y informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
w jH Elegant Ball Roomy
pub- *■" South Fourtli-Street, betwaen Chefnut and
[^ior Walr.ut-lUeets. To begin at 10 in the rooming
' for young ladies, and &in the evening for yoisng
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. »awtf.PROPOSALS
I O It
CARRTING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Poll Roads will be re
ceived at the General Port Office until
the 14th day of February next inclufivc.
PE NNSYL VA NIA,
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcas
tle, Cantwcll's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughs, Trap,
Snowliill, Horntown and Aceotnac court house to
Nurthampton eourt heufe three times a week.
April Ito November If. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery t'uefday, Thtitfday and Saturday at » a m, and
arrrive at Northamptoa court house on Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at 7J r St. Returning. Leave
Noi thanipton court house every Fri lay, Monday
and Wednesday at a a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia ou Monday, Weduefday and Friday by 7 I-i
P M.
A'member 1$ to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd'y, Thuifday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 PM. Returning— i
Leave Northampton caurt hoafe every Saturday, i
Tuesday and
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 1 m. I
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
times a week.
April I t,Q November IJ. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours.
Jisiurn} n r— Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m, andarriveat Northamp
ton courthouse in twenty tour hours.
November 1$ to April I. Leave Northampton
court house evcryTuefday, Thursday and Saturday
at 3 a m, and arrive at Norfqlk in 24 hours. Re- ,
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wedaef
day and Friday by 4a m, and arrive at Northamp- ,
ton court bouse in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA 1$ MARYLAND. :
3. From Philadelphia by Wiln»isgton, New- ; j
port,Chriftiana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- a
town erofe toadstoChefterftownthreetiniesa week.
May Ito November l. Leave Philadelphia every a
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 t m, and ar
rive at Chellertown the next days by 8p m. Re- a
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- (
nefday and Friday by 9p m, aadramve at Phila- ,
di 'phia the next days by 8 p m.
November I to May I. Leave rtiiladelphia eve- t
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at *
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 p m.
Kcturning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and h
Friday by 8a m, and arrive at Philadelphia 6n ,
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. 1
MARYLAND. I
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, a
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill and Prin- a
tcfi Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- h
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4p M. Leave h
Eafton on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill I
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 P.
m , Returning—LeauePrincefs Ann on Saturday by a
10 am, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday /,
by 6p m Leave Eafton on Tuesday by t a M,and e
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m. t,
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Black horse
ones a week. h
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A M, and
arrive at Black korle by 6p m. Returning—Leave a
Bbck horse on Wednesday by 6a m, and arrive at u
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m. a
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- d
GINIA.
6. from Baltimore by Blackhorfe t« Yorktown h
Pa. once a week. o
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 r m, arrive
at Blackhopfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r
at Yorktown by 8 pm. Returning—Leave York- I
taven. esarr Thursday by 7* H. ajlii arrive at RsJ g
timort on Friday nooh. j
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg, (•
Taneyton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
week.
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive g
at Fredericktown on Tuesday by 5 p m, artdarrive
at Leelburg on Wednesday by 2P m. Returning— V
Leave Leelburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotiiown,Gettifburg, °
Fairfield, Eli2»bethtown, Willianafport, Martins- h
burg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to S
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Snnday by noon, arrive n
on Tuesday by II am. Leave C
Martinfburg onTusfday noon andarriveat Wood- 1
stock on Wednesday by 6p x m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- M
tinlburg on Friday by 11 a m, and arrive atYork- p
town on Snnday by 11 a m. 1
9. From Pittlbarg by Cannonfburg, Walhing- 01
ton, Weft Liberty ani Wheeling to the month of
Fishing creek once a week (contrail for one year
only.)
Leave Pittlburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Sunday at 9a m. Return- a|
ing— creek on Wedaefday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittlburgon Friday at 8 a m. j
to. From Walhington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown ence a week.
Leave Union erery Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6 pm. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun-
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 1 m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza- al
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Chamberlburg to Ship- M
penlburg once a week. ar
Leave Baltimore every Friday by n a m,arrive L
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, at Eli- ri
zahethtown in the evening, 'and at Shippenlburg E
011 Monday by 7> M. Returning—Leave Shippenfc R
burg every Tuesday at o a m, arriveat Elizabeths
town at Blm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday til
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by j p m,
MARYLAND. ar
12. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old- R
town to Cumberland once a week. M
Leave Cumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizabethtown on Monday by 8a m. t ;,
Returning—l.eave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by M
6 r M.
Ij. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 ah, ud ln
arrive at Annapolis by 5r m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 p m. on
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobacco, ■( I- da
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown on
•nee a week. ifa
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive tiv
at Annapolis at 5r u. Leave Annapolis on Sa- by
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 p arrive at 1
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock. Cat
Returning—Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 1 ra,
pm, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p m we <
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by 1
II am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave a '
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at '
Baltimore by3P m. « 6
15. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough, *
Huntington and Calvert coart house to 3t. Leon- '
ards once a week 1 *
Leave Annapolr* evpry Saturday at 9a m, and ,
arriveat St. Leonards on Monday by 3p m. Re- f,J
turning —Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 /Cf,
r v, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am. v it
16. From Bladenfturg by Upper Marlborough. toU
- Not Lower Marlborj'Jgh, Acqnfcr,TLn2
i ns.Jidl aad Cliarlotrcii-ilt to Ciiapcico once a wee*.
i Leave Bladcnfburg every Saturday at 9a m, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at Lower
M:irlSorouo;hon Monday by 5 p m, & at Chaplico
by 6 r m. Returning—LeaTeChapticoeveryThurf
re-
J dajv at 6 a m, and arrive at BiaJenlbtirg on Satur
day at. Vila u.
<> m Georgetown by Montgomery court
c< house to Fredericktown once * week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at by 6 pm. Returning—
Leave Fredericktown every Thursday by 5 A M »
c *]" ami arrive ar Georgetown by 6 p m.
; cd " nkGINIA.
a ?' 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rockiug
:to ha*n court house, Staunton, Lexington and Fincaf
tle to Big Lick once a week.
ev " Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
in rive at Staunton on Frjday at Ip u, Leave Staun
ton every Friday at 2 pm, arrive a*. Big Lick on
Sunday hy II AM. lleturning—Leave Big l.ick
I J "nSitfcday by Ip m, arrive at Staunton every Tuef
e'" day by II am. Liive Stauctoai by 12 o'clock
)noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by
J I'M.
SV " 19. From Big I>icfy by Montgomery court house
M > and Wytbe court hoifle to Abingdon once a week.
»y> Leave Big Lick erery Sunday at 1p m, arrive
at Wythe c<"-« houii on Tuesday by 4 p m, and at
3 y 1 ' Abingdon on V\'e?neftlay by 6 pm. Returning—
at 1 Leave Abingdon ever)' Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
' a X at Wythe court house on Friday by 1p m, and ar
( rive at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m.
TEWNESSEE.
10. From Abiugdon, Vir. by Jonclborough
Greenville,Moffat's Hore and Jefterfon court hsule
on to Knoxvilis once a tyeek.
ri ~ i Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar
rf- rive at Moffats iiore 011 Saturday by 8a m. Leave
"" Moffats by 9 A m, and arrive at KnoXville on Sun-
P" day by 10 am. Returning—l.eavc KnoxviJle eve
ry Sunday by 1 r m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
50 by 3p m. Leave Mf> fiats on Monday at 4p m,
a y and arrive at Abingdon on Wedntfday by 7p M.
Virginia.
2i. From WincheOer by Romney to Moorfields
P" once a week.
Leave Winchester < very Thursday at 6 a m, and
arriveat Moorfielden Friday by 6P M. Return
; ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a m, and
J arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM.
'• j 21. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leelburg
y and Shepberdftown tai Martinfburg once a week.
r " Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martinfliurg on Friday by 10 am.
'* Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by'
l * noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 am.
■3. From Fredericklbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucester court
lt house to Yorktown tfnee a week.
'• Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
d m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by x 1
n am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturdliyby iiam. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
'» at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at|Frederickfkurg on Tuesday by 5 PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
• hrm church and Northumberland court house to
H Lancaster court house onc<! a week'
Leave-Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
J arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11
y am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court house ev
d ery Saturday by i,P M. and arrive &tTappahan
nock or. Monday by 11 a m.
e Is. Frorfi Frederickfburg by Culjaeper court
house A Orange c. h. to Char lottsfvilleonce a Week,
i Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at to am,
e and arrive at Charlottefvilleon Thursday by ■1 a
t m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville oh Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederickfburg on Taef
- day by 6 a m.
26. From Richmond by Goochland court-
II house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
: _ Leave Uichmorjd every Tuesday at IP M,ar
e rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A it.
" Leave CharUrreniftc noon and arrive at
Statmton en Friday by 11 aM. Returning—
Leave Staunton o* Saturday by 6 a m, arrive at
» Charlottefville by; 7 p m, and arrive at Rich-
J mond the next Ttiefday by 9a m.
e 27. From Staunton by Bath court-house and
c Sweet Springs to (Sreenbricr court-house once a
week.
e Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—* Leave Greenbrier court-
I houfeevery iMonday by 9 AM, and arrive at '
, Staunton sn Thursday by 8 p M. *1
»8. From Chai lottefvile by Warren, War
• minller, New-Market, Amherft court house, i
- Cabeilfburg, and Haddifon to Lynchburg once
- a week.
: Leave Charlotte fville every Thursday at I p 1
- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
- P M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every '
Tuesday by 6 a M, and arrive at Charlottefville
• on Thursday by 10 aM.
f 29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay- .
r letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week 1
•r if carried in ilagei as often as they (hall run. I
Leave Richmond evory Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at t r m, and at Tappahannock
• on Thursday at li a m. Returning—Leave 1
( Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar- 1
rive at Richmond <jn Tuesday by 5 p m.
t 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha- 1
, tan court house, Ciij.nbexland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a w«ek.
Leave Richmond eVery Tuesday at 8 A M, c
arrive at Prihce Ed ward on Wednesday at 6 p (
m, and arrive at Li nchbtirg oq Friday at 8A m, f
and at New-Londtm by 10 am. Returning l h
Leave New-LondJn every Friday it 2P M, ar- 0
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p m, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 pm, and arrive at ,
Richmond on Monday by 4 p m.
31. Frctn New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- 5
tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at t r m, o
and arrive at Finclftle on Saturday by 6 r m.
Returning—Leava Fincaftle on Monday at 5 a ri
M, and arrive at N« w London on Tuesday noon. ~
3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- "
tinvilleonce in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P t
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM, bi
and arriveat Liblerty on Tuesday by 6r M. t e
33. From Prince Edward court house by ot
Charlotte coart house to Halifax court house
once a week. ar
Leave PrinceEdwaHcoHrthoufeeveryThurf- "
day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court hoafe ot
on Friday at 10 A Returning—Leave Hal- M
ifax ciwirt house on Friday by 1 PM, and ar- V
tive at Prince Eldward court house on Saturday '
by 6PM. Li
riRtHNIA aniNORTH-CAR 0 L IN A.
34- From Halifa* court-house by Halifax old town? Vv
Carteis, Martinville, Patrick couri-boufe, Upper Sau- G
r«, G'rtnaiitown and Bethania to Salem once in two L<
week.. at
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
2, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6, L?
P M. Returning—LeaveSalem every other Tuesday 3t
at 6, A M, and aarive at Halifax coutt-fioufe on Fri- de
day by 10, A M.
35. Fiom Harris's by Hickes's fotd to Halifax tw ice
a week.
Leave Harris'; every Wednesday and Saturday by °f
St A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return- "f
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, f"1
A M, and arrive st Harris's by 7, P. M. by,
riRGIMA.
36. From SmithfieM by Southampton ccart-houfe
to tiickt/s sard once a week. is
l.n? Leave Hicks'iford every other Friiay by 2, PM,
ecu. anj arrive at Smith Held on baturdty by 5, PM
,ar- Returning— LeaveSmittiiield every oth:r Sunday by
mct S. A M, and arrive at Hicks's Urd 011 Monday by
rico t, PM.
urf- 37* FromGoldfons by Gcclbndge, St. Tammaoy s,
tur- Mecklenberg and Lunenburg couit-huufes and Ed
mund' (lore to Goldfon's >nce a wttk.
rt Leave Goldli.n'»everv Wcdnefdayatio, AM, and
OUr return t(>enext Saturday by a, PM, waiting at each
, Poft-Office 1 houri alter delivery ot the mai .
riRGIXfs/ Ist NOHTH-CAHDLINA.
= 39. From Suffolk by Edenton, Plymouth and Wa
x **' (hington to Newberr., one a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tues
day at 1, P M, at Plymouth, on Wednesday by 6,
'"E" A M, at b/6, P and at Newbernon
caf- P M. Reruimng—Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Walhington by
, ar- 5, P M. Mrrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
iun- P ,M, at Edenton on Sunday t>y g, A M, andaiSuf
: on on Monday by g, A M.
,ick NORTH CAROLINA.
uef- 39. From Edmtoriby Heuford, Nixonton, Ellta
ock beth &ity, and Jon<ft>ur|; to Indian-towa, once a
rby week*
Lcwo E<tci«on every Wednesday by 1, P Kl, and
u s e arrive at Indian-town <m T-huifdayby 6, PM. Re
k turning—i.eave IndiantowneveryTuefdayby 5, AM,
and arrive at Edenton on Wednesday at 11, A M.
. 40. from Halifax by Northampton cnurt-houfe,
a Princeton, Mtirfreelborough, Wintou and Windsor
' 10 Edenton, once a week.
lve Leave Halifa* aCery Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
ar ~ at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, PM, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday hy 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Satur J ay by 11, A M.
Ale ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at Ply
ir- mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning—
ve Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 1, PM, and ar.
in . rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM.
, e _ 42. From Halifax by Tarboro' and Greenville to
a y Walhingtononee a week
M Leave Halifax every Monday it ie, A M, and ar
rive at Walhiugto'n on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Wadiinrton every Wednesday at 9,
Ids an< * 4r, ' ve at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM.
43. From Halifaxby Wsrrenton,Williamlborough,
, Oxtord, Hilllborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
" ton, Saiifbury and Statefvillc to Charlotte and from
n " Charlotte by Cabarras court-bouse to Saiifbury, and
n d from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
'g Leave Halifax every Monday at 91 A M, arrive at
Warren ton iiy ■j, P M, arrive ft Hilllborough on
M, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by j,
m. PM, at Salilbury on Saturday tt 4, PM, and at
by Charlotte on Mondsy by 6, AM. Returning—leave
m. Gharlotteon Mondayitio,. AM, arrive at Salilbury
,y. on Tuesday by 10, A" M, arrive at Salem |on Wed—
lrj neldayatg, AM, at Hilllborough on Friday by 9,
A M, at Warrentonon SaHirday at 7,, P M, and at
Hahtax «n Monday at 6, A M.
j j 44 From Hilllborough by Mount Tirzah, Person
conrt-houfe, Lealburg, Cafwellcourl-hoiife and Roc
_ kiogham court-house to Germantown once in two
weekn
VC Leave Hilllborough every otherThurfday at 6, AM,
ve and arrive at Germantown oh Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
rt and aryve at Hilllborough on Tuesday at 4, PM.
n " 45' F'om Salem by Bethania, Huntlville, Rocb
to ford, Wilkes, Morgauton and Ratherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks,
id Leave Salem every other Saturday at 5a m, and ar
-11 rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at jr m. Leave
v- Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7a m, and ar
q- rive at Salen the next Monday at 6 psi .
46. From Louilburg by Nalh court-house to Tar
rt borough once a week.
Leave Taiborough every Friday by 6 am, and ar
w riveat Louifburg by 6p m. Returning—Leave Louis-
A ' burg every Saturday by 6a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 pm.
J 47> From Raleigh by Smithfield, Waynefborough,
and to Newbern, orice in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuelday by 8a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
>n Returning—Leave Newbern eVery other Friday by a
r u, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
r- 48. From R»leigh'by"Chapeltiill to Hilllhorough,
ei. and from Hillftoiough by Chapel hiH and Chatham
at court-hdufe to Raleigh, onec a week. To wait two.
_ hours at' Chatham court-house.
j Leave Raleigh every Tuafday by 6a m, and ar
rive at-Hilllborough by 6 p m. Returning— Leave
Hilllborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, aud arrive
at Raleigh on ThuKdayby 10 A is.
id N 49. From Fayetteville by Elizaijethtown, BeUefort
a and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Walhington, Sareflo and Sampson court
itl house to Fayetteville, Once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 A M, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
tuning—-Leave Wilmington every Thursday I 4 am,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordion and Randolph
r " coart-houfe to Salilbury, and from Saiifbury by Mont
e, gemery court-house, Anfon court-house and Rich
:e mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
P arrive atSalifbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
-5 lilbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 r m
/ 51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington et|ce a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
'• at Wilrqingron on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
k mingtoi* every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New- j
1. Bern on Thursday by 6p m.
1, SOUTH fr NOR TH-C ARQ LIN A.
k 52. Front Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
•e lotte and Lincolnton to StatefviJle, once in two
r . weeks.
Leave Camden (-Very other Monday at 6 a m, ar
_ riveat StatefviHe bn Thursday by m LeaveStatef
' yille every othetfriday by 2p M , aad arrive at Cam
den on Mtfaday by 6 p m.
SQWH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnlkorough, Cbefter
» court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
P Greenville court-house to Pickenfvitte, and
, from PickenOrille by Laureas court-house and New.
- bury court-house to Columbia, once a week ; waiting
. one hour at each poft-office on the route. '
e Leave Columbia every Monday at ga m, arrive 3t ~
t Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at I
Pickenfville on Thutfday at4P m, arrive at Laurens 3'
court-house on Fiiday at 4p m, and at Columbia on -
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcllon,
, once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar
k rtve at Cbarlellon on Thursday.at to am. Returning "
. —Leave every Thursday at t p*m, and ar- ,
_ rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon,
SOIJTH-CAROLINA isi GEORGIA,
L 55- Frgm Edgefield court-lioufe by Cambridge, {"
Abbeville codrt-houfe, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Elbeiton and Peters et
1 burg to Walhington, and from Walhington by Pe
terlburg and Cambridge to i.dyetieid couit-houfe
once a week. W
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byBA«, le
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 AM ' fq
. arrive at Franklin court-house by 7p M , at Peterlburg tv
, on Tuesday by 10 a.m, and nt Walhington by s f fit
m. Leave Walhington every Wednesday ac 6 a m, w
at Camb ldge on'i fcy 10 am, and at Edge- th
field court-house.by 7 PM.
56 From Augufla by WaJhingtpn, Greenfburg and hJ
Lexington, to Goor(;eii>wn, once a week.
Leave Augulla-every Monday at' 3 pm, arrive at Iw
Walhington pn hy s p and arrive a'r l
Georgetown oH Thursday by 7 r m. Retiriing—
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, aud arrive
at Atsfulh hy noon on Monday. P'
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once* week. or
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2p m, and arrive m '
at Gatdens Comer by 8 pm. Returning— Leave Gai.
dens Corner-every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m. |,j ;
Mite 1. The }'.,]} Majter General may alter tbe time'
of arrival and departure it any time during the continuance
of the cwtratli, be ftrrciaujly Jlipulatiltg an adequate com
pensation for any extra expense that may bcoecafionedthere
b3% •
A'u.'f 2. Half ffllfur Jball he allowed, Jor opening T
and ik/ing the I where ntpirticular time JT
j ufacifO. . ... rc .
No'e ,q. For evay hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted Jin arriving after the times prescribed in any con
by traa, the Contraflor Jhall JorJeit one do/far, and if the de
by lay continue until the departure ef any depending Mail,
whereby the Mails deflined for such depending Mail, Use
f's, a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars shall be
.d- incurred•
Note 4. Nexvfpapers as xvellas Let'ers are to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any ptrfon making proposals defircs
I to carry nt-vfpapers other than tbofe conveyed in the mail,
I for bis or-vn em 4u went, he mufl fate in bis proposals for
I ivhat sum be zvill carry it toitb that emolument and for j
T *~ I Iwhat sum ivitbout that emolument.
J Note 5. Should any person making proposals deftre an
1 alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
* I cified, be mufl Qate in bis proposals the alterations desired,
° n lan 1 the d'jfl rtnee they tvill make in tbe terms of bu con
by traS '
Note 6. Person* making proposals are deftred to fate
I their prices in gross by tbe year t and not by tbe mile•
J Tbofe rvho contract will receive, their pay quarterly, in
I tbe months of "January, April, July and Ofloher, in
, a _ drafts on tbe post ojfices on tbe route and in bank notes.
a Note 7« The contracts are to be in operation on tbe frU
I day of April next, and continue for four years, jtntil
id J the 3\f day of March inclusive, in the year 1802.
Si JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Post- Matter General.
I
or General Post Office, ")
I Philadelphia, December 18, I 797; J
»c I tilth ic»t 14thF
« New-Theatre,
C. December 11, 1797.
re Managers particularly request the con
s. I currence of the public in the abolition of a
_ cufloui, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
r. way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
I Theatre.
:o 1 They are aware that gentlemen are unconfcioas
of any wrong done to the interest of the inllitu
r- tionby this practice, from a general, though rail-
I taken idea that Cheeks are the representatives of a
'> I right to so many feats in tke Theatre, during an
■' Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
'• when in faft, they were never intended nf more
than totem by which the Door-keepers are enabled
j to aicortain with the lead trouble to parties,thx.t
they themselves have been before in the i'heatre, or
paid for their admiflion.
|t Independent of the injury the Managers fuflain,
„ such a praiSice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other difordcrly persons to surround the doors of
it the Theatre, to the oorruption of their morals and
e the great annoyance of the Audience,
y It hat also been tke source of two evils of no in
- I confultrable magnitude; one is, that fotnetinkis
I, very improper company is by these moans admit
it 1 ted ; and the other, that owity to Checks pafling
into dishonest hands, they have been frequenaly
n counterfeited to a large amount for the purpofesof
Sale.
0 This statement will, it is refpe&fully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
j' the exertions of the Managers will, if thus aflifted,
' easily ppove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
_■ i December 13 iw
Muftcal Instrument Manufactory,
r- I 167, Arch-street.
e TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
TNFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
A now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
[-_ Pedals, patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
_ flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the
Pj foperiority of flatters himfelf, a single tsi- '
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
J are manufactured under his immediate mfpe&ion,
. of the very be.4 seasoned materials, he can fell on 1
1 I reasonable tetmfiat Cask. Instruments repaired,
I tuned, &c. ~ •
, J N. B. Secondhand Piano Fortestaken in ex
-1 f change for new.
- ' HtWlifno. . J
; Samuel & Miers Fisher, j
e ARE NOW OPEKING,
j At their Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frelh '
t [ affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
■ I the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng- '
■ j laud.
They have also for Sale,
I Lisbon <
Teneriife (. . ... ,
Sherry, and ( In P 1 P es ' hhj3 - and luarter1 uarter calks;
I Port Wines, J f
1 Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c. t
' I loth mo- 13d. diw3taw3w. 1
City of Walhington. i
SCHEME 1
Of the Lottery, No. 11,.
I For the Improvement of the Federal Gily,
Amagnificentrtwellrag-houfc »o,ooodollars,
tf. cash 30,000, are j 0,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafe
1 ditto i;,ooo Sc calh ij,ooo 30,000 "I
1 ditto io,oeo & cafb 10,000 »0,000 J
x ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 S
I 1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000 0
1 calh prize of ro.ooo a
» do. 5,000 each,arej « 10,000
10 do. Ijooo i . • io,boc
»o do. 5»o • • 10,000 ''
00 do. 100 . - 10,000
*OO do. 50 • • 10,000
400 do. »5 . 10,000
1,000 do. ao - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 • 159,000 j,
i6»7-39 Prizes. ''
33,»6i Blanks.
B
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollart, 400,008 b
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan»
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but onk :
And approvednotes, securing payment ineither
monsy or prizes,"in ten days alter drawing, will |
be received for any number not less than 30 tick- .
ets. tj
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef jl
the private buildings to be ereSed in the. City *f •
Washington—Two beautiful deGgns are already f r
(eleifted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings- it is proposed to ere<9 cc
twocentreMd r ourcoriierbHildingß,as foonaspof-
fible after this lottery Lsfold, and to canvey tlicm,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ip
themanner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will .
be made to defray theneeeffary expenses of print- in
Wig, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Uuiverffty, to
be erected within the city of Walhinstton.
The real fec-iritjesgiven for the payment of the P°
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dired- °f
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at tl(
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
•§. Tiekett may be had at the Rank of Ct>inm- P
l)«a ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boston :of John H»pkin«, Richmond " C
and of , Vrrry. mw
jSamuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet, t
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS, rei
which they are now opening for lale, ou mi
reatbaable terms. o£t 47 4W
This Day Published,
u '_ A*d to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, eorner of
;l 7 Second and Chcfnut streets,
t Jg Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
I* Obfcreations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" CJ " The History of the United States For
U, the year 1796,"
• or In which the charge of speculation a^ainft
»r ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret ak y of the Treasury, is FULLY
m REFUTED.
*■- WRITTEN Br UIMS B£ F.
J > This publication presents a eoncife statement
'■ of the base means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of thof«
,e persons who are considered as hostile to their difor
'• ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
" Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
je<a of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
n ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
,l mikon, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connexion betwien him and ReynjJda,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort tnoney.
■0" A dilcount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be aidreffed to Mr! Young,
Auvu/l 2 ?. _____
Yellow Fever and Peliilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&avo*
[ By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 5 2, Second ftrect, the corner ot Chelhut llreet,
f (Print, in hoards 8711 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
5 Paper,
A VIEW
i Of the Science of Life ;
Od the principles established in thg element*
of Medicine, of the late celebrated '
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
' With an attempt to corredl feme important er
rors of that w.ork, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feledied from the records of their pradlice, at *-
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
• Br William Tatbs & Cvas. Maclean.
To which is subjoined, a Treatifit on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living'bodies, and its applica
tion i'or the cure of diseases of indired) debility*
Andadiflertation onthe fonarces of Fpidtmicand,
. Pestilential diseases; in which isattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fafls, that they ue
■ ver aril'e from contagion, but are always produ
■ ced by certain states, or certain viciflitudos of
p the atmosphere, by Charles Maclian, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. S IU
1 FOR SALE,
Joseph Anthony y Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, id and ad
proof, just landed
ajo bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper ja bale*
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes S»
do. market do f qr. calks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaeeti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in de do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrel* of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : »en
A few tons oPßuffia cordage
Ruflia Jfeathrrtreds
Clover and Timothy feed in ;afk»
Long wha!c-b©ne
fio 1, a, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few cherts £rft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8. ' dlw
This day is Publifhed^
At the office of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street
| Price one dollar and a half,] *
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVF in tb*
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Statss, conneft
ed with the Mission to the French Republic durine
the years, 1794, A , 6, 6
Bv JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenspotentiary to the (aid Republic
Illulirated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and o;her authentic documents,
A very libei al allowance to ihofe who b»y ts feU
again.
December 23* #g t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOU NG,
No. ?a, Seeond-dreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afTort
ment of F.ngHJb, French, Latin and Greek'
SCHOOL BOOKS. A If*, s U ch elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISH?!*,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the fiuth edition, in
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large umo price 1 dol. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price x dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks, *
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in tke counting honfe, or
public office.
£"5- Catalogues of a miscellaneous colledion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Odt. 2A—%aw6w
LAW BOOKST - "
Latest London and Dublin Editions,
H. & P. RICE, Bookfellers\
N®. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market ftreefT
TT AVE just received by the I«e arrivals from
XX London and Dublin, theii fprir.g importa.
tion, consisting of a variety of the latest and mott
approved Law Books, which .added to ihofe alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thp efore
beg leave to notice, that trom the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto don?) at the very
lowed prices 1. The following are among the latcll
publications.
Vefey, juii'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peake- s Calces at Niii. Prius ; Ridgeway's
in the.time of Lord H.i-nlwick« ; KJover's Procters
Prailice in the EacUfulWcaJ Courts j -Barton's
Trsatife on #suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pradlice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&'.ns, »
parts complete ; Ward's Lav of Nations ; Cruise
00 Uses ; modern Reports, l» vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Ricr expe<ft ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, thq.2dpaitof Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
Wanted\ to Hire\
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or sear
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will beghren ; to be taken for a year or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer
° a ' '7- eotf