/
of tijc UlttM
By John Ward Fknno, N°- 119 Che [nut Street.
kvMBEX 1920.1 PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER iz, 1798. [Volume JIV,
f .. . . r » - I
Cj- The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcri
'bcrs rejiding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
dit onal, for encla/ing and directing;
and rtnlefs fomeperson in this city will
become answerable for the fubfcrip
iiwt, tt mu/i be paid Si# Months pp
advitnre.
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 4ICO barrels of Flour,
py I Philadelphia built, well found
and fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in 1 few <!aye—-flic>s pierced
is guns, and mounts 12 new lis pounders, with
frnall arms iu proportion.
-(HE SHIP
r DIANA,
Bnrthm 2,100 barrels of Flour,
A/?! "4iiladtlphi* built *f live oak
?* 'and c«dar, i» pierced for four-
Veen guns, tnd mounts ten ne»v four pounders,
with fiiiall arms hi proportion.
<?*—i&fci. THE BRIG
AM AZO N,
Burthep I 3CB barrels of Hour,
w-Er.gland built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready forfea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
KICKLI\ ttf GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
en board fundiy veJfeLl at Mjrcus-Hoos,
12 ooc- l)u(hcls .f Liverpool fine fait
i, 100 bushels of coals
sB6 crates <>f queens ware afljrtcd
7 tit iff. of bottled porter
jo barrels of coleolhard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity ofyelUw ocre in eafks
6 banels powdered Venetian rtd paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Swanifh brown do.
3j bo*es of pipes
91 boxes white ? HAVANA SUGARS
89 do. b-own 5
3,5001bs prime cochineal
3 barrela New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
do bales of fail Pinvafs
379 (heets of copper, aflbrted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms aflbrted
36 fix pound guns 4j feet, B£ewt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each
jo barrels of gun powder
6 cases Mancheftrr cotton checks
3 trunks mu'lli is and lhawls
14 cases muflinets, dimities and ginghams
*8 chests coloured nankeens, mullinets, &c.
i. trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres
~T j bale of courfc woollens
EngliOi aff:>rted.
Oilober 27. fri.&fat. tf.
For Sale.
THE Subscriber , intending <0 decline th'
DRUG m;siwtss, offers For Sale, the
•whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
Th fbop is f levari', commodious. aaJ ft?fFi-ci
ently irvown for the exceniivc huOncfs one in the
whoK'fale and retail line ; the situation «<]ual to
any in the city, bcin# at the cji ncr ot Walnut and
Setond Orcets. The whole, or any par- of the
Stock, will ho fold, as will best suit :he
Th« terms may be known, by applying ro
JAMES moore, jun.
Wko has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3010nsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an eaiy draught of water, rigging ir
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
e»d in owlet' for the lumber bufiaef-.
gjf All petfons indebted to the lat« firm ®<
Goldltnoait fjf Baldwin, IV. B GoldthivaH, Gjlu
thwait Afoore, or the iubfcri'»er, are earnestly
requested t© make fpcc«ly payment to
JAMES ivIOORE, jun.
3 $
Ship Brokers.
This F.lUbliihmcnt, commenced hy tiie late Mr.
S»jnuel smith, will l>e continued by
Row & Simmons,
W!iO refpedfully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Masters of yeflels; that da
pair% or exertions lhall be wanting to give general
fati>f*-sliou. Tl.isbufinefs will be conduced at their
fiture, No. 107, South Water Street, neir to the
CuQom Houf*.
Oaober 17 dtf
For Sale, or Chapter,
111K DANISH BRIG
L ° U 1 S A,
NOW lying at Burlington, a ve
ry tall fdiler. —tot teim. appy to
•JACOB SHOEMAKER.
wno has roa sale,
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
v St. Martin's Salt.
to mo. 14th, '9B d«Of.
Wanted to Charter,
FOR BALTIMORE,
" A Small Vessel,
FROM four to five hundred arrels
btrien. PKTEK. BLIGH V.
Whofc Counting House
ha« opened, us usual, this day.
aov. ilw
s For Sale, cr Charter. ,
- <"3-, THE SHIP
r - Mgfc. NEPTUNE,
I;'.',A BURTH EN about two hurdeid tons,
ii coppered, and in good order for a W c tt.
Indii voyafj;. She mouns 14 lour pounders, fails
remarkably well—
A L S 0.
r MOUNTING fourteen 6 ponn
dersTcopptred and fails remarkably fall—butthen
about icoo barrels.
ro* txkms Arm to
(3* Francis.
Penn Street.
-j november dlw
r For London,
j '
the suip
' J E AN,
Captain DANttL M'Phkrson,
be ready to take her car
go on board by the 15th mil.—For term# apply to
, Rofs & Simfon.
C WHO HAVE fOK SALE,
Superior Teneriflfc Wine,
' In quarter c-lks
Bengal Sugar, firfl quality, iu boxes and bags.
A few lialts of Muflms
Rice in Tierces,
jAnd a foiall cargo of St. Martin's SALT.
, Do»*embcr 9 dtf
f '
1 For Sale or Charter,
jJl the ship,
COMMERCE,
John Waco, majler.
This Clip is burthen as perregiller 230 Tons,
will be fold ori moderate terms or take freight
for Europe or the Well-Indies.
Apply to the C-pcain on board at Latimer's
Wharf, or WILLING* ttf FRANCIS.
FOR SALE,
On board fold Ship,
16 Tons of Liveroool house Coal.
nov 9 diw
Elliston Sff John Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Strut,
Muscovado Sugar Bandana Handker.hiefs
! Co-per .nfteets& natls Midcjrl Win#
I i!»rmrti V>» " ioal Leather snd
Sail Canvafc A few barrels Shad and
, Oznabrigs Hernn S S
Also For Sale,
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 torn--Bermu
da built, fails remaikably faftand is well found.
nov 8 w&fiw
'
For Sale, *
At the Merchant's Coffee House, on Wednejday I
the 14 th injl. at 7 o'clock n the evening,
The fajlfailing ship, I
CH ARLOTTE, i
about 204 tons burthen,
. «-J«a£SiiM4£t2She is a well ii und Veflel, hav- '
• ing lately had a very cornplea repair both in j
1 Hull and Uitrgiag, the inventory n.ay be seen at
1 any time previous to the (ale by applying at th<i j
Au<£lion room of »
RICHARD FOO7 MAN ttf Co. l
nov 8
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS, r
1 1 Le Parlementaire
' L A VICTOIRE, i
d'une marche fupirieure partira t
J 5 prefix, diredement poj- le ]
Port Republicain, ceux qui 1
' defirent y prendre passage font priis de fe reudre i (
' Philadelphie avant la iite epoque. j
' S'adrelTt'r a New Vork chez Medieurs Blanche- ]
reau and Cazcncove, Jaraes Ureet, No 20, and a t
I Philadelphie chtz Fs. Breuil, .Armateur dn dif j
batiment Spruce (Ireet.Nb. llj. t
1 Le j Nsvembre, * dst
AVIS AUX FRANCAIS.
J"jk -1 Le Parlementaire le
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
Capt. Joxts,
Conau par fa marcheluperieure, par- f
tira le it prefix, direilement p#ur
Jirerkic; ceux qui Hetirent y prendre pa(Tag4 font J
prieide fe rendre 2 Philadelphia avant la dite
epoque. "
S'adrelTer a New York chez Messieurs Blanche- J
Xcau and Cazeneuve, James fireet, No 20, and a
Philadelpfeie chez Fis. Breuil, arm&teur duditbb- t
timent Spruce llreel, V». HJ.
1 ■ f n0v.1798 * d^t
For Savannah, (Georgia.) r
tll e fast 9ailing c ° p *' bred snfr
Richard West, Matter, (
TO fail in teu days.—For freight <>r palTage ap- f
ly to S TEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Street.
jrao HAS,
140 Boxes of Hav anna Sugar,
a quanty of
Sail Canvass
And a box of Mace, for sale.
November 6 co6t
FOR SALE,
AS (Le arrived from sea—She is a remarkably t
fall failing veflel built of Cedar and live Oak, '
ami completely armed. JAMES YARft. 4
nnv 10 d»w t
"REMOVAL \
THE StJBSCKIBJiHt; have removed their OfTice I
from co 'ncr of Eleventh Street, to their former I
Count' n g Hcufe, K<;. 4i, Pcnn Street £
Killings £s? Francis.
November 3 §
Just Imported,
troa cannon, double fortified, Woolaich proof,
with their cariiages complete—3, 4, 6 and >;
pounders.
Carronadcs, Wro'iwiih proof, with carriages, &c.
complete—n, 18 and 5 4 pounders.
Cannor. powder in kegs of a jlbi. each
* Hound, double-headed, and c.nni&wr Hiot
Patent (heaihtnj copper, brigh«, aflortcd 18, *O,
11, 34, if> and 18 or p-r fuuare foot, (heets 48
by 14 inches, XuitaHc for v.fleis from 100 to
JCO3 tans
Copper nails, bo!|i and £pilces
- Boarding Pikes,
11 Common cutlaiTcs
Gunners {tores of all kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 croft b-xes
I'atfnt ihot in calks of 5c wt. each
London porter and brown dsut.ifi calks of 7 doZ.
bottled.
. F.arthen ware in crates, a (farted
For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street.
OAober 19. eo.tf.
. LANDING,
0 From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stite9, Mailer, from Cape
Nichala Mole.
43 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers "] W V
18 Do Gaiters | 3' ?5.
1 Do. Rugs 1 J "~. = .
1 Do. Havre Sacks [ > ; J
1 Do. Flannel Trowfers ' 3 o" S
1 Da. Tents, J f 7
Also just Imported,
_ In the Ship Cliefapeake, Captain U"«bb, fr#m
I.iverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
AfTtfrted particnlaj;ly to suit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
: Thomas £s* John Ketland.
November 7 5
. FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
s The Cargo
Of the fhtp Lorn fa,
Captain Champlin from St, Petersburg,
CONSISTING OF
HEMP aud BAR IRON.
In the ship Dispatch,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg, 1
15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of ship Rich
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
and an elegant alfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordecai Lewis.
PMadrtt# Ja.nnv " d.^W
JuJi imported in Jhips William Penn, A
miable and Jean, from London,
A quantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls
Ca ronades, ix lbs. 5 suitable.
Mul'quets, Mufquetoocs.Cutlafles and"] 03
Pillols, for (hips use, j
Rifled barreled Guns. Fowling Pieces, L §
and Horseman's Viflola, ]
4CC.000 Flints, chiefly for mirikets, in J 3-
ke t s. J n
Re> ulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 5® «ach,
1 Lijjht Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlasses, witb plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general al
fortment—For sale by ,
Thomas isf Jno. Ketland,
Philad. O&qbtfr 15.
Whereas the certificate of two
» (hares of the Bank of the United States in the
1 name ot Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
Tso 3182, iflued in l,eu of 11593, 11594, were
' forwarded from London by the' British packet
' Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
Xew-Yoiik, which packet was captured by the
Fi ench, and the said certificate loft; andforthe
J renewal of uhich, application is made at said
Bank, and all pei sons concerned are desired to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhtla. OA. aNS, 1798. eo6w
'ToITeU ~
THE house, No. 78, North Se- ,
. csnd street, with or without a (lore and ftabl-
I he house is large antl convenient ; enquire of
John Litle, No. 40, North sixth street.
jaober 31. w&fa.tf
Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
THE firft are wequefted to rehder their Ac
counts sga:r,ft hira, made up to the 13d
d'ay of August, J797, the date of his Alfign
rnent, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, bfcfore the firft day of Decembw ciifliW.
Any that uril'ettled after thit period, wfll
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in fatSl) to the
AlTiftnees and Truftecs of
J. Shields.
Chefnot-ftreet, No, 12. ■
November 1, 1798- dtf.
~A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, »fPhiladelphia, who has
for a few years pail been in the fouihern States,
has had the effrontery to draw fevcrai Bills of Er
change on Timothy Pickw ing, Esq. Secretary of
S<!»te, and mylelf.and by that means hudefraud?d
a number of persons of their money f doc-ivmg
r them by an exhibition 'of letter, and papers with the
names affixed of divers public chara3eig and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Sharffer; to one of these papers I find ray name
fubferibed, but Ido not k >ow the man ; these are
villainous forgsries! To prevent further impefition,
: I have to requell the printers of Newspapers m the I
United States topublilh this fer the !>en«lfit of their I
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trcafurer oftbt Un'tnf St,:irj.
Trenton, New - Jcrfey ,">
Olintcr 24, f 7J»S. )
The Subscribers
» Are now Landing—For Sale,
> St. Sp/.ar
Red Port Wine,
In »>ipe=, fiogftiea U and quarter Caflta.
Two thousand buthels of Salt,
I roa .i.« pounders' j>r»vt4 at Woolwich.
Philips, CcaMtr.d, If Co.
Msverrtber J '' K dtot
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at WaTnuf Street wharf.
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimstone.
AnafTortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSIBTIWC OF
Opicm, Aloes, Canthariues,. Canapliire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, Sec. St-c.
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergatnot
Writing paper
Sweat oil in bottles and fiafks
Olives, anchovies and cayers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutellri.igs
, Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
2 Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine ps the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
Novenjber 3 S
jAMEb ii RICHaRD biVIUH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their S I ORE, No. 54. South Fiont-P.reet,
where they hive for falc, usual, a lar<c and ge
neral afforcment of European and Eafi-Indi*
DRT GOODS,
mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different velfcls, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull/
ilieir Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, and at as l>w
prices for cafli or credit, as they can be had elfe
wliere.
N. B A few Cafrs of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
confignmeot, to be fold by the cafe only.
Pbiladi - l -hia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RECFIVI D AM INVOICE OF
Choice Cheshire &?Dou.bleGloucefter
CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.J
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various ftzes, per thejAKE,frofft London.
They have also far Sale,
200 Calks of Refined Salt-Petre,
AND A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. Samuel W. Ft/her.
November 1 dtf
' JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at South fireet wharf,
FOR SALE BY
PETE* MLTCHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO AlftO SFFIKS rttß SAL*,
BRANDY, rft and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, Ssc. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
!ROBERT SMITH isf Co.
' Have returned to the City, and ore now open
ing at their Store, No So. Front-Jlreet,
A larpieand General
ASSORTMENT Ot" GOODS,
Suitable to the Scafon,
Which they have jufl received per the late
arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool and
Glasgow (via New York) and will dispose
of 011 very low tirrms for C?fh or short credit.
TO BE LEI,
A House in Fourtn-Rrc-et, next door to
to the Indian Qjieen—enquire as above,
november 6 it 4*
— • I
FOR SALE,
AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in
French, entitled a Hi lory of
The Administration of the French ,
Finance:;,
WRING THE fEAR 1796.
Also, An HifWii a! and Political View of the
' Administration of the French Republic, during
the year 1797, —of ti.e causes which produc
ed the
Revolution of the a,th September —
And of the rtluhs of that Revolution.
FX ICR I n OLLAk EACH.
These two political trafls, are from the pen
of the celebrated ri'lverirois,4fid contain * thou
sand h'tefefting disclosures of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the different Usurpers who
haVe reigned in France tlu ing the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution mow pending in that
miserable abd depraved country.
Nov. 3. f
GEORGE DAVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of informing
his friends geuer-lly.that so soon at the prc-
Cint ficknefswill admit it, he proposes to offer for
sale, tha hiofl extenfivg colleflion of
LAW BQOJCS,
he ev«r imported, or that was ever imported into
the United States.—The lase arrivals have brought
h:n» a sumber of extremely valuable and scarce
BOOKS, and these cipeited, will greatly add to
the quantity.
® O&ober 22. eodaw
>
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
T"\ESERTED last night, a second time, from
> \J tie Marine Camp, David Luper, a fifer.—
' He had when he went away, a plain Llue jacket and
] veft,light blueriveij'ds.a round hat, which ted been
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off ,
; in hrs fit ft desertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is
c a Carpenter by trade, ljis grey eyes, sandy hair
' fallow complexion and a mrch in his upper lip
E His back is ftiH fore from a flogging he got a few
r I daya ago. He may ba difcovcred by hia fifeing,
[ as he plays extremely well.
W. W. Major Com. of the
O&ober 17. JMarioe Corps.
Thomas Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, 1)oCK-St*BE?,
HAVE £DR SALE,
imported IN DIFtEKENT VESStLS,
A general ajjfcrtment of
h Coarse and tine Woolens,
7-8 & 4 4 In(h linens, Sh-w'iiigs, Ticker,* &e,
Scarlet «od Cloth colored Cardinals
H»ts in boxes of it dozen each
China, Nankeen Diuing let-sand cups &saucer*
Black Lutestrings, 'l'affatys and Sattins
Pun,sfem Cl-Jths and llumhutr.s, Bhit and ReiJ
Cotton, Chappals and l'uiltcat Romalls
China and Engltui Umbrellas
, r. Cro ■» ley Miiliugton Stt-e!
5, Till in Boxes 1-3 x
Shot, Flying Pans and Weeding Hoas
a, 6d, Bd, tod, lid Ntils, ije.
nth ti>out h daw
'FRUITS, WINES, tfc.
MALAGA WINE, in butts
■ SHERRY ditto, in quarter calks
| I}RANDY, in butts end pipes
| SUN-RAISINS, in k ? gs
MUSCATEL do. in boxes
BLOOME do. in do.
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks
OLIVE OIL i'a boxes of 12 bottles
BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
~ boxes, Sic.
' fOR SJLR nr
1° PETER KUHN,
■ e .' Ho. t)t. North Market ilrcet.
No* 2 ilict
IMP O R T E D,
tO 6E BOt D BV
n " CHARLES WHARTON,
ift £At his Houfc, No. South Second Street.j
: w Old Lisbon Wine,
e * Of the fir ft quality, in pipes and quarter ca&».
Tea China, aflorted tn boxes,
Hyson 1
[ Hyson skin, and > TEAS,
Young Hyson J
India Bandanna and Chopab Rtmal Silk Hand
kerchiefs,
>r Nankeen*
Black -Statin
Black a»d coloured Luteflrings
3 Black lowing Silk
Garden Fannt, —Silk Umbrellas, itc. &e.
November 5
~~ TO BE LET
it And immediate pojfejjlan given,
A LARGE convenient, wtil iimrtie 1 hoyfe,
No. 115, High ftrcct, lately occupied hy
DoiSor Willar, with coach houfc and flables .
r. Enquire of WILLIAM SH&AFP.
No. 168, High Itrcet,
» Nov. 1. <!tf
, To Be Let,
And immediate poffeflion Given,
ACOMMODIOUSThrecS<ocy Brick House
with convenient back building*, lit Mated
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
streets.—For terms app'y to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No, 10, South tounti Street,
Oflober 19 dtf
To be Let*
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, between .
Eighth and Ninth (tree(, formerly occupied '
as the Surveyor General's Othee-—Enquire at No,
te 111, Chefnut Street. ,
id aue»ft ro <»;t
!? John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
0 T) ESPECTFUL.LY informs his Friends and
JV the Public in general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South SecondJlrecij nearly op
~ I pofite the Merchants Coffee haufe whore gen,
tlemen maybe supplied intheneatefi and best
manner—he assures :hofe w.ho may pleal'e to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
n or exertion on his fide fhalfbe Wiming to render
hihti worthy of their encouragtrbent.
1 N. B. Orders received will be pundlually at
tended to.
novembef S $
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
ga nft the estate of William Per km, dece.fcd,
g lat; of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
c- requ,-oed to furniih th<jr accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to (aid eft are
are r.-qjeflcd to make payme»t to the fubfcr:b.;r in,
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINQSWORTH Adminr.
October 11 ft, 1795.
LAMPBLACK,
A quantity of Lampblack was left during th©
ty Fever, at the Ofice of tlie Garttte of the Unit
jn ed States, —supposed through mistake. Th#
es Owner is requested to call and take it away,
at Nov. 3. $
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WITi
BE IT REMEMBERED,
■" THAT on the twelfth day
V 15 J of August, in the twenty-third year of
* * the Independence of the United States of
° America, BcDjamin Smith Barton,of tbefaiddifa
c " tricl, hath deposited in this oSice the title of a
or book the right whereof he claims as author in the
Words following to wit i
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
to " Nations of America—by . xjijamin Smith Bar
ht " ton, M.D.Corretpoudent Jtfcniocrof theSocic
ce " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, McmKr of
to " the American Philofaphical Socij'y, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boflon, Correfpond'dg Member ps the Maffa
_ " chufetts Haftorical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia M«dica, Natural ilittory and Botany
" in the Univer.lty of Pennsylvania "
, m In conformity to the afl of the Congrofs of the
United States, intitled "An aS for the eacoura >a.
rid mer.t of learning by securing th- copies of mats,
en charts,and books, to the authors aad prepncor'
iff , of fuefcopies during the timesthcr.in mentionffd.**
is SAMUEL CALL WELL, Dift. of Penu'
itr November 1, 1798.
I ballast'. "
Ig, A QUA NT Iry to bedifpo'ed of, if apolitd soy
l \ immediately, on I oud the Ship Louit', |vi .j
he *» M». HUMPHREY'S Ship Y ii, *
flovexb-r iq.HUDSON y YORK.E,
WO. 54, NORTH FRONT STkHT,
HAVE JU-.T RECEIVED,
Per the lalt arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE AiSORTME.V 7 OF
d&Y goods,
Which they will dispose of on reafonalle terms,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Suptrfine and Aiarfe cloths, coatings,
Elaflic and lancy do
CalTtmeres, plains, duffils
ftofc and strip« blankets well assorted in small
bales
Furniture chinties, cottons all I dimeties
Callnn.incoes, camblett, durants, moreens, and
joatis
Muslins ct all kinds I
Velvets, vdyerets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant afTorrment of rihbonl
Red, white a«d yellow flannels
Red and green hocking and wcllh baizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cuttonadrs, fluwis, printed handkerchiefs
y-8 4 4 *lB checks
9-8 & 5-4 cotton ttripae
Cotton, worsted and ClkhoCery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, &c. See.
nov q. dißt
Imported
In the brig Eliza, Peter/on, ft om
Leghorn,
A SMALL <yTANTITT OF TUB TOLLOWINa AR
TICLE,
Bologna crape
CamliTicks assorted
Silk (lockings
Fans
a few fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets Jcc. &c. manufaAored at
Lucca
Pots and sticks of pomatum
Waft balls, &e.
a fe m jars Gorgona anchovies
a small affbrtment of Drugs, &c.
And in the Louisa, capt. Kean,from
Bohdeavx,
80 cafas, containing 2 dozen each,
Old Irish Claret,
of a luperio quality,
40 dozen old L.aruturne Wine,
of a luperior quality.
fO.'i S ALE BT
James Latimer, jr.
Nov. TO ppd \v
John iVi 1 ller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS RIMOVIKG FROM NO. 8, CHCSNVT,
To tbe Five Story Bu Ming, in Dock
near Third /Ireet.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING OF
% Coflaes
Raftat
Mamotidies
Humhums
Ca'irofs
Handkerchiefs, Isfc. &c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS, ]
Confining of Woolens only,
AMONGST THEM 4RE,
Cloths t
Coatingi
Bliokets '
Kendal Cottons
&c.
ALSO, \
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d £s* 4th proof,
nov 10 J j
JUST ARRIVED, c
From Bourdeaux,
And for Sale by th« Subscriber,
60 Boxes F.relh Raisins
118 dozen .rlies loag Gloves
116 ditto ditto Ihort ditto 1 1
ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
and Black Lace.
WILLIAM LYNCH.
No 8, Penn-ftreet )
novtmber 10. ) • d'ot
Library Company of Philadelphia j
THE. ME MBER3
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia ™
ARE HEREBY INFORMED dl
THAT the library will be opensd on Thvrfday
next, the 15th infiant, for the reception an>l
delivery of books. Those who negledl toieturn
the books, wbich had been borrowed previous to {
the twentfeth of 'Uguft lad, 011 ov before the firft *
ef December next, will be fined as the Rulesdir«&. ' n
The I.oganian Library
Will aifb be opened at the fame time, for the like
p»apnfcs.
N. B- Catalogues of the books belonging to
these Indentions may he had at the Library.
2- I OULSON, junr. Lxbrarain. -
I-ibrary.
IviRAEL i J LtAS)AN U j Co.
No. 74, South Second flrect,
'ffave returnedfrom the country ; and have far
SAI.E, as usual, a targe (iffortment ef
DRYGOODS, J!
Jmporfed in the la(\ vessels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally fuitcd to the pref«»t and ap
proaching season
They are detcrrmned to fell off very low for
cafli or fhorb credit.
Note. All persons iudebud to the late firm of
Sajnucl PUaJants Sons, are desired to make im-
payment to the fubfcrihers.
Israel Pleas ants & Co.
Mbv.. d4w l r "
Drawing t Painting Academy,
NO. 6-3, WAlNur STKSET.
J. C O X, -
RESPLC I FULLY informs his patron* aod ,
the public, that his Aca 'emy will be open-
on Monday next, the tath inllant. Hours j
of tuition for Young Ladies, from Two till p
Four ; ami an Evening School for Gentlemen
from Six till Eight.
Jf. Cox bas made New Additions to his col
kciion of Piilurefque Drawings, during his ab
fcuce from the City, and has likewile procured
Curie handsome Hals Relief fubjeils, fori! An- /J
Uruilion of Ijis Pupils, in tlic dodlrine of iight -T
---411 c' fr.adow. * tor
Tcmji ot' Tuition, Six Dollars and a half lts
1 ble
Ladies and Gentlemen inftruiHed in the dif- "J"'
fcreut branches qf Draniug and Painting, sf
ti tir.own apaitinoals. lor'
"ov 8 fmJuhjt <
* # ilic l' jblic arc i;iforineu il*it the
Alderman's Court of this City, will re
new their iittings on next the
15th of November inft. at ten o'clock
in the forenoon at the City-Hall as usual.
nov 9 t :
Lfntvcrjity of fennjjliania.
ms ' A<m 8, 1798.
THE different Scoots will be opened co
Thnrfdaythe 15th inl'ant. f'.jo'der,
Wm. ROGERS, Sec'y.
"11 %* 1 he Olhces ot Government
are to be removed from Trenton to
ind the City on I'hurfday next.
* # * The Custom House is re
-9 movedfrom Chester to Che City, and 1
is again opened at the uTual place.
No«m l »rj
%* The Office of the Insurance
Company of NORTH-AMERICA,
is again opened at the South-welt
corner of Walnut and Front-streets.
nov 8 divV , .
L INSURANCh OFFiCE I
of the State of Pennsylvania is removed '
om to the south-east corner of Second and 1
Walnut streets.
»- Nov. 5. dnv
The Insurance Office of (
SHOEMAKER ts* BE R RETT, >
16 again opened at no. ig north Water street—At
tefidance will also he given at their room at the
at Coffee-Jidufe asufaai, from n "till % o'clock.
11 mo: 5, 1798 !
JuJl imported, i
A quantity of fait petre. refined f
Gun powder F and double scaled battle i
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders t
London porter and Burton Beer v r
Mu;larii lquares, 4 ounces \
Bell Durham mu!Urd t
Ginghams, fubjeifl to drawback
All of which will be I old on njoderafe terms by
HENIir DA J r IF. .9, junr.
No. 93, south ticcond Urcet, oppome the
city tavern.
nov - 9 nnvftftf (
jr. Virginia Tobacco,
Twenty four hogfteads, old, ant! of an excellent
quality,
FOR SALE BY
'James Murlantf,
, No. 97, south Front fr^t-
N.B.—a few box?< of LINEN CHECKS, and
an a'lortment of BOOTS an) SMOES, which will
bt fold cheap -apply at above.
nov 7 «odrf J;
aHI persons,
HAVING ciaim« aj>a!nft the* HstAt« 6? '
SUSANAAJf LOCKTh'.R, d reafed, are f
requeued t present their ive accounts to
Nathan a. smith, -» f
m L As,n s
JOHN DORSET, J tutors.
A LB ASS OF THE HOUSE
Lately occurred b\ S-tf nuah l.ockyr, together k
-with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be diipofed of- Time will be given for
the latter 011 un-excepi!unafole security.
nov 0 „ , 1«
v ,ia-w'6w
EDUCATION." e
■. ii
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School, \
IN CHURCH ALLEY, .„
TS open again, for intruding Girl» in Readmg, a
. Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, o
including tha Elements of Geometry, and the ui'e v
of the globes.—prom the great encouragement he ri
has hitherto received, he refpeclfujlyfolicits a con tl
tinuanee ef the favours of his Friends and the
Public.
c 3* An Evening School,
For B 0 T S— tbe fame place.
11 m) 6th, 98 21W4W
French Language.
G. DUFIEF, ™
No. 63, Sowth Second Street, ti
~ "wiLi. op. n ra
3 His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL, fp
0" Wednesday, the 14th Injl. £
N.8.-Private Tuition attended to as usual, w
and Tra Uationi from either Language into the in
other, performed with accuracy, fjcrecy, aad dl
difparch. th
y nov. 10 or
£ " S'gho oT. : *
0 r^ N o ™« ,a y f,i e nth inftact, the fubferiber S e
H V w,n "Pen his SCHOOL at the usual glace, cl '
t. in the new building adjoinisg Arch street Church'. ea
ALSO' Hit «t;
EVENING SCHOOL jj
0 will commence at the fame place. 9<
JOHN ELY. 1
"~ Y - ro. 3t an
Female Education.
James A. Neal's School,
FOR THF TUITION OF
r vm rOUNG L "DIE$ t J"
Wtit X re-commence on Monday, the nth of As
November, at his School Room., Nt. 28,
Carter's illey. '
: ccs" The Evening School q r u ;
Witt be opened, as usual, at the fame time
and place.
1 AW "'^ r 3 tod\t
10 rent; p r ;
A convenient HOUSE, about No
tT"!!' I™' T th back b »ilding S -corncr of Tel
Third and Cherry-ftrsets. Enquire of r ,
J. HALLoWELL, <
no. 50, Walnut-lireet. dit<
EOV - '°' tdiw C
Mrs. SCOTT oa
h tb i City, and htezvi/e ~
,hose <who JtiU remain in the Country, that /Be
cTrt btr Fami ' y ' to No - '• *O,
Li:
TO BtRKN'I ED, I
( And immediate pojfejfion given,) For
A LARGE three tto.-y Bit!CK HOUSE th "
fitoate in Walnut'flreet— The rooms are (
commodious, airy and private—i'rom which.and
itJ centi* posit od, it is thought to be an eligi
ble flluaiion far a.Poblic Office. F o * terms, en- T
■ quire of BENJ. IV. MORRIS. \V
Aifo, A commodfous Ware Hoult, in Tav- .
tor's Alley. 1 im
Ofhirir 3taw»w
a V
/
he POST-OFFICE,
rc _ Philadelphia, gtlj XuV. I 790. (
he The Poft-Office will be re-,
ck moved to its usual place, No. 34, South 1
al. Fror.t-ftreet, on Saturday the 10th inft. '
1 nt 12 o'clock noon, and on Monday '<
morning the letter carriers will begin to . '
deliver, in their diftrids, as formcrlv. '.
cn
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
—j. Will re-contmence drawing in the caiir/c cf ,
tlx present tmnth. c
l>chid Eijrht Dollars each, at ■ 1
1 WILLIAM BLACiCBURN's Lottery J
j and Brokers office. No. 64 South Secoml-ftreet, j j
■C" j where cheek book? are kept for pepiftcring rnd
id cx».minatioti ot' .Tickets in the above. City of ,
VVafiiington and.,J'otterf.in Lnweiies, &c.
\ '"TAtI OK THS WH'.EI., S
\ One prireof to,ooo dollars 10,000 j
ce Pjve 43 a aOjOio a
g Two i,cro 4,000 ;
» Two J ,oco i,ooo
sii Ten jco 5.c o J
Twcnty-leven 200 ■ 5,40? j '
With a full pro;w>rtion ot the one Imiidred I c
and of the fifty dollar pr zrs—Tt» Lottery is 1
more than two thirds drawn an ! above 15,'.c0 c
• dollars richer than at the c mmen' enient. c
Note, the btifiiief* r>f a Brokr.- duly at v
nd tended /to in all its branches.
nov 9 saw '
To the Creditors *
Of Wili'm M'Clelland, of N ■•rtjbtimbtrland
> County, in the State of Pcnnfyivaqta. a
* t TAKE NOTICE, *
-hj. '"'r'HAT I have: applied 10 the Judges ofthe Courc
X 9I Coir.mon i'lca>, ifl and for the County ei' ''
Northumberland, for the brnefu of the fcversl laws »'
<»f''ennf»W.i.t»ii. parted sot the relief ot laTolver.t b
Debtors; aud tl'e Ju-fgct of the fiidCourt haveap- Jj
pointed the Thirtieth day o* November inft. it be- w
ingtha Pri l.iy o the court of Cmimen Pleas for
the Count}' of Northumberland, to hcai me and C
«ny Creditor! at the Court House in Sunhur\-, at c
which time i»d place my Creditors may attend if b
they think projicr.' J r
Wm Mc. CLELAND. w
y Northumberlaud, N»vember I, 1798 a
Boveni'cr 7, Tsuvjur
e—; 1 c
The Creditors •'
Of William Steedman and John Smith, of
the County of Northumberland, in the w
•nt State cf Pennsylvania, lately trading un-
der the Firm d M
Steedman & Smith,
WILL TAKE NOTICE, that the SuWcriber 3 '
have made application to the Judges of the n
')*! 'ourt of Common l'lcas for the County of Nor- n:
1 thamherhnd aforefaid, for he benefit of the several
laws of the State of Pennfylv. •i.v' pal Ted for the ft
relief of infolv«ntDebt«s, and that the said Court C|
Mth appointed the Thirtieth d.y of November ,
5f licit, Kcfng the Friday of the Court of Common
ire Pleas, to hear usand ear C'wdiws at Snr.bury, in P
t 0 the County of Northumberland, at which time and ft
place you may atterd if you think proper. p
WILLIAM STEEDMAN. £
, JOHN SMITH. b(
Northumberland, November t, 1798.
November 7 j c
er ' Eight Dollars Reward. k
. A ROBBERY was committed on "
" tfcc 17th infnnt, as the house of the fubi- ''
lcrihcr in the townihip of Solebury by two negro Ct
_ cien —tbey carried off a qwntity of calh; a puck- m
et book, containing so ne valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, &c.—One »f the negroei is a
I aged man,knowh Us the name of John WMte, for- '
1 inerly a resident of Philadelphia, has an inipedi- * {
ment m his speech—the other fuppol'ed to be H
g, a runaway, about eighteen years as age, of lo
y, of middle ftaturc. Whoever fesnres the aforeftid tc
fe villains so that they may be brougl* to jufiice.lhall
le receive eight dollars reward, or four for either of
II them taken separately. dt
!w ISAI \H TUCKEMONEY. Pc
Solebury, 10 Mo.'l9th, 1795. f —3t.law ht
e A French Classical £s? Mathematical as
SCHOOL. ti<
WILL be opened on Monday the nd. inflant 'h
at thai large commodious room for.Jierly fat
occupied by Mr Leo in Norm's Alley, No. 15,
nearly opposite the City Tavern; under the direc
tion of MefTrs. S 1 ith and Chandler both of libe
ral eduMtion, and long experienced in their re- 13
fpeSive profeffions— As they intend under, the kn
' patronage of a <!ifceriung public, permanently th
to eftablilh themselves in this undertaking, their
1, whole study sn I a-tention will be djvuted to the ,
le imprcvement «>f their pupils.—There will be ion- '
j duAed upon the latest anJ most approved plans, ' ol
through a complete course of academical fluiiet 4) h
or thofc parts only that may be pointed out, as more an
immediaiely adapted to their particular views in life cu|
Certain portions of their time will be afligued for r
r geography,hiltory, extraiis, conipofitioti, and de- ri"
clamations in French and £nglifh, in order to form
1. early habits of writing and (peaking with propri- ra6
ety—Vifits from parents anl liteiarv charaAers, ft-h
tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will be
gratefully received. The hours of study are from ,
9 to iz A.M. and from HOS P. M.
They offer to tranflatethc Englifli,French,Spanift e <l
and Portuguefc languages; and to draw in their mc
proper modes and ilile, all kinds of writing, whe- of
ther legal, commercial, or epiitolary. ,
The firft Monday in November, they also pro- e '
pose to open an evening school for French, Uo ,k- are
keeping,furveying and navigation, of which they affii
r bave a prj<3ieal as well as rheotstical knowledge, ulti
As a number of French gentlemen will attend, the Jn ;
, students of their language, by continually convers
ing with them, as well as their teachers, will ac ma '
quire, aloa< with the principles, a facility of ex- P rc
preffion. _ mo
AVIS AUK FRANCOIS :
Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont
rbenueur de prevemr M.M. les Francois, quilsfe " T!
propofent d'etablir une Academic en Norri alley,
11' P re %* s vit-a«vi» la Bourse ; dans la- vefi
quelle on enfeig .era la lanjue Lat.ne, Angloifc e: wcr
rrancdife : 1 Arithmetiquc, la tetlue"des la rr
Geographic, et ]ee Mathemntiques. *
On fait audi toutcs fortes de traKuAions dans les acc<
dates IttgMi: et drnne Iccon*cheZ Ics-partituliers J
Qw'on f'addrefle a I'hottl de Mx. Vallette au Sat
com tic 4cme rue ct Cherry alley. u. :
'if tf h , e d '
A young woman from England,
would wilh to engage with a lady in the ca, a iry \
of lady s-maid,or in tie fituatior of a houf- Le.p An
lerto a genteel family, or toa ftnglegent'e-nan thc
, A good recommendation can be procured from > ha!
some of the most refpeiUWle families in this city the
Z m<lU ' re " the ° in d
uaoUcra,. eojt 1
' ' thlS
AN APPRENTICE era!
TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS rr,n
Will be taken at this Office, if
immediate application, be made. ' u c '
Ncv. t. 6t
gi _^ommumcatlon&
uth Mr. ENVOY.
i»ft r THE anxiety of the puhl'c has been for
.lay a long tine awakened by Dr. Logan's mifte
ito nous France. Coijjeifturcs have
•, been with'the cnafs of the people m vjrio's
) as i hey have been uufatisfatStory. The mod
difcernin r of our citizens have inde d been
, convinced, that his objefl# were of a nature
6 J the m->fl hoftiie to our government, and moll
de(ir'it£Hvetoou happinefsandindtpendence.
, at : They had seen a ccnllant torrt fpo. deuce
,el 'y . kept up between France and thc diiaffe&ed
-nd ' those counlries vv,li ' ;l > have since groa ned
; ' of under thl- iron red of her opprefficn ; t hey
knew the afajjring. views a d unprincipled
ambition of this reltlefi ju.d frantic dema
-000 gogue ; fhey were well informed of the halle
o°'' and fecrtcv of his depatture ; nor were thry
'i n °rant of hia long and frequent confulta. !
, 0) i «' ,th a man who, abandoned to every I
j public virtue, exerts all the faculties 1
!, f( f | of. his mind, and bellows all the weight of '•
:■ is his office, upon the increase and nourilhmeot I
• co of the influence of France. Weighty n. d 1
operative as were thefeconfutations, there
we:e others ftiil more fa. It waa remarked,
i- l ' ,at I-"ga'i laitsd foan after tils arrival of
the memorable dutches from our en
v'T, wl 'en the public mi,id' was mort i„.
ind flamed ; when every latent fpirk of virtue
and patriotism tired the American bosom ;
and when it was perceived, even by the molt
urt fangiiine and inveterate of his faction, that
. nt.lefs a speedy change toofe place in the
iws fyfteni of open coercion at that time adopted
ent by France,.the energies of yur gwrernme. t,
•>!>- Invigorated by the ardor of eL! r citiaens'
would biaft all their projedK No means
11](1 could be better talculated to efL& this
at change, than to difpatcb an envoy from the
if body politic of Jacohiuifm, fully initiated
into the views of*its leaders, and inverted
with ample powers to concert fuo!i schemes
f as were raoft likely to ensure ultimate fuc
cess. Their craft no I'uonrr fti h 'gel!ed the
idea, thaftthe Folly and fanaticifm < f Lngan
c f furnifhed ihcm with an instrument. From
h e what has already happened, \ye may tn some
in- degree discover how well tlleir opinions
were founded ; and as the letter puhliflied
from hirafelf in fad confcffes that he has
acted in a political charades, his coududt is
the now a fuhject of public praise or condem
or. nation.
:r«l An extract ptiblilhed from a Paris paper
:he some time since informed us, that he had
credentials from Jefferfon and M Kean,that
ibn be had dined with the notorious Merlin,
in prcfident of the Dir«dtory, and that he was
uvd sent for political purposes by the French
party in America. This publication has
w * now been made lome weeks ;it must have
been fcen by both of the pcrfons who are
said to have created this new species of drp
— lomatic eliarafler; they mud have both
kftown that it has excited the curiosity, and
)n roused the feelings of the whole nation; and
,tv. that if its truth was not denied, it would be
jro credited. From no such denial having been
±- made, and from the intrinsic probability of
JT* 'be aflertion, I fnall consider it as unquef
£ tionabty authentic. The constitution has
veiled in the Prelident alone, the manage
bc ment cf our exterior relations. To him be
of longs the right of appointing public minif
all ters * of . formi "S treaties, and of exprefling
Q [ our national sentiments. The Viee-Prefi
dent, conlidered as such, pofleffes no other
power than those which are attached to the
lw be«i of a legislative body. The President
then entered into a negotiation with France,
ll as the legal reprefei.tative of the whole na
tion ; Mr. JefFerfon has entered into aoo
nt tfeer, as the reprefentauve of a profligate
ly fadtion. Let him not attempt to juitify--
S, himfclf by faying", that his objects coincided
■' yvith those of the adminiftratio-i ; for if he
e _ is authorise], unsolicited, without the
ht knowl-dge, and, as he well knjw, againlt
ly the inclination of the Prtfiderit, thus kindfy
£ 'o fu«ber the completion of his wishes in
n _ this instance, it would be equally proper
lßj for him, on another occafi >n, to impede anal
t. ohllrud them : if he is csmpctent to fcnd
re an agent to France, for the purpose cf le
,r curing peace, he is no less empowered to ,
:• "-'"d one to England m, order to create war. (
n No "'an who is acquainted with his cha- j
i- rader, doubts that he would embark in a !
s. scheme of the latter nature, with the fame 1
® readintfs as be has done in the former.
The people of the United States are call- \
h ed upon to reflcd seriously on this develope- '
r mcnt. It affords an insight into the vi\ws t
of their molt insidious loe, which he has %
been too crafty often to give them. They '
. are not now surely to be told that an illegal '
y aflumption of p wer is molt dangerous in its c
ultimate consequences, when halt injurious ! j
c in its immediate efFeds, and that while they t
may receive an apparent temporary benefit,, r
. precedent is eltablilliyed fur the ruin of their
tnoft efFential rights.
The next intelligence we received of Dr.
' Logan was, that immediately upon his ar-
rival at Paris, he made his way to the di- 0
, redory ; that the embargo laid upon cur F
vefTds was soon after taken off ; that orders
were given to the French pirates, no lon- £
1 ger to harrafs our commerte, wlun failing •'
. according to the decr>e6 of the diudory. J-
In the letter from himfclf published in i
i Saturday's Gaeette, we are informed that r
he it about to return to *his cout try with ,
' difpatche.-. for .-cue pjovefmnent calculateti v
to reftpre harmony between'thr t wo nations;
that a,l American vefl'tls were reltaled and ' *.
Ametiran prifoi trj ( r t at liberty ; and that : |
the most positive afifuraticss have been given ■
ihat I-ranee is ready to ci ttr on a treaty tor /
tl-e amicable accommodation of all matters j
indifputv." 1
loe fir ft qarflion which arises on reading '
t '.is in ormai:oti is, by what mean , was he r
enabled to woik thi. sudden change in the ,
temper ol the
thc.ecapuulatioH ot the reafoMng ft, oftea '
ihedged to them in flip-port of the juttice f
■)ur ciaims, and so lon-g ditn-gardcc I WiU
is vatmeit advacstu cgntend that his Icsi- i
i
- ty and fo.hy ceuld tli.ovr new h' fi ht» on the
lubject, , r tU.it if he had donr ft? u
_ coming from himfvvho had fr> I'■ p*!, 11
Y ! °, Ull y f cfe,K '' d mrafures thelegality
wmch he would then havr t f 5
•or they, would u ; cev : thclcaft attend "Si
le- been by gwfifymg the avarice of ih,'lT u
,ve m.niftcrs and by the police 0 f tl.Pjnfk
•■ s mens arts of corruption ? 0 r haa I, k u
»«.«,. 2
en cyof open force u ou ld W3ni tke Tjj
ft tm Zu' i" their own C.fe
oil baffle a!! the artificer of intri<rn>> ~, u
:e. all hop C 3 of fubjugattW? ' ' J "
C ? . Uhfe \ UtUt measures of France fully
ed demon/Irate that this has been the objeft of
; f 'here be a sincere desire on
ey us par, to bring aho Ut a
ed
«. direftMial tyrants ascribe o o r defrnfive me,
! f Ures 'Mr [° Sritifh corruption > they wdi'
y | k.,0» that the aspersion is as offenfive toou*
r v ' fcif Cr m nt i" ,s w, ' ckcd antl ■■
ry , elf. Wherefore (t .t that fhey fufFer all
ea j th )fe afts molt ruinous to our commerce, to
jr j continue . Th e decree authorizing the feiz.
u ; nr c and condemnation oi /hips, carryi/ip- Bri
d tifli merchandize, ftiU
ic ». « role d equipage futHces still toconfif.
• Zl r"r i Wh y aie agent.
f U n l n tbc atroc;j; « commit
i ted upon oiir cuiMus, displaced ? Can anv
fohd peace exi st svhil, the chief gro u „d 8 <*
ie | our complaints remain >\\ > )at ; s « ~
It Courdtaux „ take:, off; where, lam in.
a n °^ morc li,a " a d « z " vcfTcl werc
,e , detained. Our fearoea are rdeafed wh„fe
d maintenance must have created a conftdera
'' JvrT""' "f' , ?\ ta :' y P ffible *4, a g C
s , a rrai.ee or eflc„t„J rjury to America and
15 t V*r • a UranCes ( as w « »'•« toid by the
,» Jifferfouian envoy Jgivpfi,which have Montr
IC been made or ly to be broken. The great
d object of this prodigal aiid rapactoiis, per fi.
d d.ous and inveterate foe, evidently is to tern
:s por.Ce, unti (he (hill have sccomplilhed ihe
projedts of her ambition in Europe ; in the
, e mean time, to ofctaiu a new opp.mtmitv lo
in exert the aitifices by which (he has hitherto
but too well f«cceeded ; ari'd tliefi to Hut
le her avarice a d revenge, by' falling upon us
, s when we are weakened by the lots of oar
.j commerce, diAnited by faftion and totally
JS unprepared f, r refidancc. We have a dread
is , w " rMu S tl,e fHte °f other nations ;we
have icen their fall accelerated, and indeed
produced by the treacherous bafenefc of
:r their own citizens, [.et us grow wife by
d their muf irtunes. If we rush on thus ad.
it viledly to rum, onr murmurs will be answered
or 'y h Y lhe scourge of ottr opprelfcrs ; ani
is our K'oans by the contemptflo.ig pity of the
h world - SCCEVOLA.
»S
e Wh'E'N Logan failed lor Europe it was said
, e that he carried with him ofjeialdit'patcheg fisov
the ciiitfs of our. Jacobinical tailion, and k was
h natural in u« tQ.beiievethat these d.spat. hes were
written in conformity wirh the real views and
hopes ot his party as lhev were detailed in tne
d public papers devo.ed to thii fadtion ar.d in alt
ie t heir <peeche« ind converfatioils at that lime.
n " You-ullt liave no peace with France while
Ada-.us and hi< friends are is Oilec." "You
p inuli repe.il all your oltnoxkwt acta," « breafe
g you, treat; vyith Biiram" " eat your words,
and tread back the whole length of yntir Federal
Path, before the French will e\en heir yon,"
and in all this the French are pfrfefity'ri »ht;
[. thus said t:iel» traitors o;i all occ.ition«, at «very
g opportunity. Thcu how dare they, after so
[_ (bttrt a lapse of to p»etewd thai they ever
j. havearfvjl'ed theFreuch to recedefi om
As Wl.. mjv the United Irish pretend that they
advrird th« trench to break their prott,ife tf>
t land in Ireland, in which cafe th? merit would
be theirs, and the honcfl tars of Old England
[. must of course have fern unuecefljrily employ.
Ed ; is there a wretch on earth fVitupid as u
e , believe in either of these r No,
Nothing could lie more welcome to our French
{j fa<ftiot», than to behold an army of
11 foreigners lar.Jing on oar foil, to overturn our
e government and to place thrir leader at our head'
' t.lj tiiey are in office, they cannot wi!h for peace
it is not in their nature —hut (hisiiiiciieoli-ogan
has in it widen tells us to be on our
guard and tirile nioffe can enible ua to develope
' the full intenti ins of tfcelt protean parracidct»
| OBS&RFATOKt AT MALTA.
in 178.4, Prince FrnlSuel de Kohan, grand
maSei of Malta, an observatory to-be
' in his fuptih palace in. tnis i.Tand; an-l
• committed the r ir-- or it Co rKe Bev&tUr
■ gos, wtH known :n the altronon ic world. This
! gentle-nan immediately ordered-a Quadrant to
. he c-onftruiled in Pari* Iry the celebrated Migiiie. »
As soon as the eftablilhment c'omj>leie, he
began to form a catalogue of (lai\,, m which he
made a fucccfsfui progiefs, in. consequence ot* .
tite cloudlefa Iky- with which Uiat ifhnd is cun
tinua ly lav lied. He discovered.feteral Comet#
which elca'red the obfc vations of aflron mer»
in England. "ice. owin» to the vicilD
• tildes of the I'cal'ons in tbof'e r,.nntries. His
catalogue of Northern flars (so much wante;i
in nttranon;y) was v*ry tiiji. If is iwipcd tbn
the l'reach, u'ht>ti pay A> much attention
to I'cience, will not deju-ive the learned of tii:«
medium of celcftiai in:rrcourfe.
FOZTIGN LITER /ITURK.
y f j.'W !■«.', a Tvovel, has I'ately
been pijhliihed in Paris by J. L ivallee, author
ot Cc*ilia, daughter of Actum* 111. and otbec
productions.— ihe kvU i=fhus dt-fcrihed ;
€< 1 his is the belt- Ncvel |wliich hai ap.
pearid for foaie time •„ it 11.13 the douHJe
merit cfinicretl and (lile, at opccpure and
ingenious i'he principal liiuatiutis a:r!
feverai of tbe gerfonages tecall to <mr mini»
Lovciaces and foipe ftthcr A&ors in tSs inv
mortal work of R chardfon ; but the Ci>t»-
traft qi an Angelic rtrfffl, t*<r'ihjcil cf the
will of a moi.tler of wicktdn fs, uhjfip base-
I ness is enveloped 14 a Urulunt ifTue, is so.
; proper to produce a lively emotion, and of
; iers fttch tifeful and inftr icTivr ieffonn, tliac
it is not furp ilinga fubjed of fiat kind
should be again rtcurr.d to. The author
has ktljis. peifunatjes the qualifi
cations ot the old regime ; becaule in the
maniwis he defcribes,.there are details which
kerns to belo g to pali times exclufivtly ;
and they are not indeed of such a nature as
to yive us 1 com tp nj-cl thtm. There
ave foiDc Novels which proiels w preach up.
"ir iur, and yet,, in fact, difp.;fe tiveir readers
to be in iow with vice. The mora! of t:,e
took in i* bs pure as it is noLiie."Dometlic Hxtklzs*
CHARLESTON, Oftober 20.
The frigate off the baf ie the Conftitu"
t'on, enpt. Nicholfon ; not the Conilella
tion, as mentioned it) yeft'rday's paper.
Veltcrday tlu- Baltimore sloop of war,
«apt. Phiiiips, and the. Virginia ?rmed
fchoontr, anchored in Rebellion Roads.
Opt. Phillips came ud to town yesterday
afternoon. We are wiidfmcd that these vof
fela, and the ConliituiWn. will convoy the
vefTtls belonging to this port, in the
road r*ady for sea, to the Havannah.
Yesterday being the anniversary of the
tirth-day of the President of. the I nitcd
States, the armed (hips in the harbor fired
salutes on tbeoccart<m « and the three firlt
troops of horte. beloiginjr to the regiment
commanded by col. Cunni.igton paraded in
Broad-flreet, and afterwards went through
a number of evolutions on the place of ge
neral parade.
The company of Charletton Blues be
longing to th 29 th regiment of milttta, al
so par ded. This company, and a numher
of other gcntlem-n, dintd together at mi
. Hams', Ccflle-Houfe, After di/ ntr a num
ber ef' appolite toafls were drank, which
we are obliged to postpone till our next.
OtSober 24*
Vefterdav the vessels belonging to this
porF bound for the Havamia, (ailed from
Re'oeili >ll Road, i.i cotipany with the Bal
timore floip of wjr ; thty joined the Con-
Aitution frigate with ut ihe Bar.
Bb'AUFORT, OCT. 7.
iy*parted his !i f e, after a few days ill
uefs, Mr. Cal'b Avery*, a native o Nor
wich, Co inefticut. He was an afiitlant to
a public work at. this place, and had nc*
quifed the efte<?m of all his acquaintances.
His remai s were •> panied to the n rawc . (
by brethren ' f the lodge here, and de
pcfited with honors of .mafoi ry. j
ELECTIONS.
State of the p-jll far Georgetown and Cher aw.
Benton. Huger.
Cher aw, .... 318 4^
Liberty 187 211
Wi'liamlbiirgh, 10 18a
Winyaw, .. . . 25 131
All Saints,... o 96
540 568
City-Council,
The Harbour Milter reported the arrival of
all (hips and ve(Tcl« at the port of Chanefton,
from the ift day of November 1 ,-97, to the 1 jt!»
day of Oiluber, in the present year, which is
as follows : '
Mtnths Ships Barques Sloops Schrs.
November 14 I 10 30 ■,
i/ccemher ai I 19 15 18 ,
January 10 27 17
February 15 3 18 II 15
March 13 I 16 10 16 1
April 13 1 T3 6 16 <
May 10 3 17 9 17
June 8 *! 6 u I
July 41 8 5 16 ,
August 5 i 13 6 10 ]
September 4 6 10 20
Oflobei ( 4 4 i 15 |
131 13 m icß 111
Total (548
Ordered that the f iid Report be publijbed. ;
Extract from th•• journals,
P. BOU'NIiTHBAU, C. C.
BALTIMORE, November 7. ]
To the Printers of the Federal Gaxete. \
Gentlemen, ,
I rcquelt yon to give publicity to the fol
lowing through the medium of your Ga
tette. On the 4th cf September, I was
captured in the snow Fanny, of Baltimore,
close in with the Spanish Main, by a French
privateer schooner, on board of which was j
a fellow of the name of John Mathers of
Baltimore, who told me, in order to cover (
his piratical condutt, that he only get- j
ting a paflage from Laguira to Curracoa ;
but I soon fotind out that he wds one of
the molt adive of the pirate's crew. He
perl'naHed the Captain of the privateer, that |
uitltTs he confined me and my men, we (
(hould rife upon him and retake the snow.
The Captain mentioned what he had told
him, and ordered mylelf and mate to be con
fined in (he cabin, and my men in the (leer- j
agf, where v/e were kept so clcfe, 11-at the j
heat had nearly deprived us of existence- (
When arrived at Curracoa, Matheri affum- (
ed great importance, and directed by his
information, another French privateer in
(lantly got under weigh, to cruse off La- .
guira, for the snow Maryland of Baltimore,
which fhexa| tured and brought into Cur- j
lacna. t
The above Mathers, Solomon Geer, and
<me Leacock, went out i rivateering on the
14th instant, in a French fchoaner of 10
guns. I was prefrnt when the two latter
wer.t on board, and heard them declare.
that every American thev captured, they
would drip even of their fliivts.
I wi(h every printer in the Union to pub- •
li(h the the above, in <-rder to acquaint the
Commanders of all v< (TtU belonging to the
United States, of the villainy of thofeja
tobins. t
Yours, &c. j
GARRET BARRY.
Cbrracoa, OSober 26, 1798. " t
'* I f
NEW-YORK, Ni.veiaber 10. j ®
The President of the United States will n
ftortiy set cut for the Seat of Government, h
We are f*rry toluar thJit Mrs. Adams yill 11
be unable to accompany him. We afdent- li
Jy hope thai her convak-fcence, though flow, n
may be certain.—our worthy and iliullricus ,
President declared to his friends, that he f
can meet with ui lhaken fortitude any event I
but h*r lots. L»*t every true American p
prefer his fervent vow to heaven for her ; 1
recovery. j p
PHILADELPHIA,
j" .. -
a . MONDAY EVENING, SOrEItX&S it.
r > Extract of a letter from a gentleman it °itts
rd bur?b, to his frieitd tu this city, dated October
3. 19 th, 1798
, v " You will be/.u-e this, have received the ve
£ rydiftrefling intelligence of Gallatin's re-elec
tion by a la'fJP majority. A fa& wsicli in my
ie mirid t'ullv proves the exigence of implacable
* e hatred bv the pe jple orth s country to the gov
ern .tent. Had He nqit a>sle«! ai he has, and Uari
he in one (ingle inftlnce fupp® ted governmen
ts tal mCafures.hiseleilion would have been do jbt
.(j ful ; hut he is popular as the chief or a p"tV.
*. (who are the majority) If the people can be
J? made to aiiderrtinil.tKe fituatioii of p»blic *t
fairs, they of th ; s country fia/e not the exctife
"'t 0/ ignorance- fir the utrr>o!l pains for a year
in palt. has been taken to inform them, and enable
rh them to weigh the confluences of every politi
e. cal occurrence in our dispute with France ; and
though they eftran Gallatin as a friend of the
e people, they know him and support him as the
." (nemy of the government. An unfortunate di
-1 vision of the Federal interest between VVo»ds
L ' r and col. Prefley Nevill, who were both sandj
!/■ dates, thoogh N. resigned before the ele&ion,
a- , gave great Ilrength and boldnels to Gallatin's
; h party. However, had not this division taken
olace, and had General VValhington even been
the candidate opposed to hiin, 1 believe the ja
cobin reptiles would have voted in the fame
18 manner. Of many anecdotes which ihis elec
m tion has furnifhed, one is particularly worthy of
I- notice, as (hewing the fta;e of the public mind,
(l- A gentleman of popularity at Wafhinjtori, the
eleilion day, a: the conch)tion of a speech in a
large aljjymhjy of rabble cried " Huzza for the
Amrrican caujV " iot a voice seconded feim
he was alone. A scoundrel in the crowd huz
zsed " for GafUrin" and it was immediately and
r * repeatedly re-echoed by perhaps nine-tenths of
:o tliofe present. It a common faying at ma
c- ny of tilt ele&ioii diflritfls, " that it was time .
B for the Trench to come—there were too many of
king George's men in the country —h:s minion*
ought to he taken off" In the borough 'of;
c " P:ttlburgh there Were 71 votes for Gallatin, and
but one man in it acknowledges he voted for ;
him."'
■ i
XVIII. Century.
AS neither Mr. Cobbctt nor his corref- 1
pondents have made any attempts to contro
vert what I had the ho>o»r to advance on j
this fubjeft, in your paper of the Bth, I |
mull take it for granted, they have either j
fl d the question or are preparing their minds
for conviflion.
I pledged myfelf to advance some autho
rities in support of my opinions: a mare
refpe£table one than Fergus n will in vain
tj be fought for The hundredth year he i
j s ftylej the centurial year ; doubtless, thereby
meaning, the last or closing year of the j
century —the year which completes tbg |
term. But he is dill more decilive, clearer 1
and dronger an this point. This aftrono- :
my, pp. 269 —271, contains a c talogye of '
ellipfe3 vilible the present century. This pe- j
riod he commences with th y *ar 1701, and j
concludes with the year i'Boo.
Moreover, Dufrefnoy, who is allowed to j
be the mod indefatigable ehronoloiiilt that !
ever lived, corfe&S a'' error into which be '
had inadvertently fallen, and for which it is ■
easy to account, in the two or three firll !
csnturies of his dates, and uniformly after !
wards, terminates with the hundredth year
—the tenth century with the year 1000 —
andfoon. CERTO.
Lord Bacon,
In his " Effav upon health and long
life," fays, that on fame philofopher'3 be
ing allied how he had arrived to'the very ad
vanced period of life he then'was at, replied,
" Inlus melle, extra oleo"—by taking honey
within and oil without.
a * s
Maupertcis,
In one of his rflays, melancfcolily enough,
1 makes this conclusion :—" Mankind, (fays
P hr) however, differing in ail other things,
I agree in this, 'tis ont tous cherihe un remede
* r an ma! de vivre."—They have sill been look
" ing after a remedy for the misery of exist
' euce.
T>
, Pascal,
® In his M Thoughts" fays, "We must all
1 be uneasy here below If we are not un
c easy, so much the worse for us."
v.
Gustavus Adolphus.
When the town of Landfhut, in Bavaria,
r " fiirrendered at discretion, the principal in-I
habitants of it fell down before nim, when
*' they presented him with the keys of their
town. " Rife, rife! (said he| it is your
18 duty to fall upon yoijr knees to £od, and
I not to so frail and so feeble a mortal as I '
am."
•9 . _ j
r " ! The infignificance of a villain ought never
to in uce us to fappofe him incapable of
mifchitt. Many a despised wretch, of ori
e gin low, mean and vulgar, and trained in
0 habits of baseness and servility, is yet capa
r blc o more complete and more extensive !
devaftation than any of the greatest cooque
y rors and tyrants who have ever opprefTed
mankind How has our own time abounded
in melancholy illaftrations of this truth !
e The Telegraph
Is said to have been originally the inven
tion of William A montor.B, a very ingenious
philosopher, born in Normaqdy, in the year
j 1663. Atnontons «•» in the third form of
I the latin fcbool at Paiis ; when after a con
, fiderable illntfi, he contrasted such a deaf
' nefsas obliged him to renounce all commu
il nication with mankind. In this situation
. he invented that mode of communication,
II which has since been adopted by the revo
lutionizes ; and, with conlid-rable improve- 1
j incuts, is now called the Tclcgraphe, }
«i <
e | Nfwspapf.rs. '
t 1 It has been fupp fed irom the following
n pafLge, which occuri in Tacitus' Aniiali, '
r ; hat the Romans had fomethi'ig like Hews. 1
j papers.—" Jjivtna pnpuli Rcrr.ani, per pro- 1
■lf// '
• . & , ' '
rir citti, per excrcttu:, curahus Lobular ; q:tam
nt m.-n ncjcat.ir quid Tbrafea fecrrlt." •
In tin city of L-> dan, there are publish
ed, thirteen daily, twenty evening, and nine
we 1 kly pape s. In the couutry, f.vecty,
au.l iu bcotla d fourteen
The earliclt paper known to hav? been '
published in England, was the Eng/i/h fn
ulltgencer, cbont the year 1660.
It would b wo{th while to beilow fame
attentioh on the progrcfiiv; increase of those
powerful agents in this country If it -.vas la'.c
' before the eftablilhment took root aroonglt
us ; it has tince made up for the delay, by
the mofl exub.'raot increase and extenlion.
1 Within old time, and not mi)re
. tHan fevesty years ago, thire were not ab"»e
■ two newfp3pers printed in America. Mr.
■ John Dunlap, of this city, was the in
ltitjutor of the firft daily paperj not long ]
before the commencement of the revolution. 1
. This was begun on a fhe:t of Demy size, at I
: the rate of «ight dollars per annum. It is I
- remarkable, that in no inllance has this j
I charge been hitherto .exceeded, although the
■ daily papers have been continually encreaf- 1
: ing in size, until those of America are now I
. the larjjeft in the world
A newspaper, at the-higheft rate they now I
, fell at, mayjuftly be called the cheapejl com- <
s modity of the country. At eight dollars
1 per anil, they are little more than two-pence
1 each. Every Iheet of paper colts the-printer
more than a penny, and thus the fHblcriber
receives an immense body of printing at one I
f penny. 1
: Neat Compliment. J
1 The following prettily conceived tribute
: to General Washington loses none of its me
rit from the circumltance of not lieing paid 1
j as intended.
f Meifrs. Gray and Weed, at Gray's ferry,
expt(fling the General to pass that way, had |
■ decorate 1 the bridge in the handfomelt man- '
f iter with ever-green and laurel—.just em
blems of the tin fading reverend; and- love of
I a grateful people, and of the distinguished
r honors which adorn the immortal Chief. It
jis matter of regret, that the real'and ardor
I of these gentlemen, which led them to exert
I themfeives all night, to complete, the deco-
J was unfortunately disappointed by !
. 1 the General's passing at the ..middle f rry, ' |
. conformably to prior arrangements, which I
1 1 could not then be deviated from. . I
:j
It is remnikable that the foreign renega- '
1 does who itifeQ this country, commence im
mediately on landing, their old prafticea of
. e*toliing the generosity, magnanimity and 1
: public virtue of the French. Wherefore is I
1 it that no one of these caitiffs seeks that de
• lightful asylum of oppressed friends to li
berty ? ]
■| t
Tf we do uot speedily close our doors up- 1
• on the hordes of ruffians yearly disgorging '
upon us, America will erelong be convert- 1
f j cd into one vast store.house of alTafliss. t
_ ,1
If the revolutionary vermin of foreign (
countries /hould contiou: to encreafe and 1
j fatten as they have heretofore done, on the J
fuffenugs and distress of the community, it «
' is not difficult to f refee the speedy diflblu- 1
1 tion of this immense temple of liberty, this i
' freed and mod enlightened republic. Then <
; fhoald we Ite committees qf public fafety 1
■ and revolutionary tribunals composed of 1
Calk-nders, Reynolds's, Burks and Duancs.
The heads of rich men would roll down thd '
kennels, whde convicts would be
revelling in their chariots, or rioting in their
' t palaces. 1
i> 'W> e *'l some effeflual remtdy mull be 1
. epplied : tis not enough that we cry j 1
, " Tarda sit ilia aiet, et nostra serior avo." i
r We mud rouse uS, betimes, to en/rgy and 1
attioa, or the dumber wherewith we sleep
will be our lalt.
, It is of little consequence to the federal
-5 ills, that their enemies are less numerous
, than themfeives, while the (hameful fad tx
r ids what they in.ikc themfeives more power' 1
• ful by superior boldness, address and adtivi
- ty. In how many ir,dances have we not
seen them gain an ascendancy merely by
perseverance in their endless arts of lying
1 and intrigue, and for want of a due exer
- tioo of honed means on the part of the
friends to governme-jt. It is not hazarding
too much to fay, that a continued preva
lence of that luke-warmnefs and ind deuce
, of temper, which has so long exided the
- reproach of the federal paity, mult in the
t i end prove the means of its dedruftion.
r What our enemies want in numbers, they
r make up in the mod aftive intrigue ; and
1 what they want in manly spirit, they make
[ up by dark and underhanded conspiracy.
! They are Jtfferfonsin cowardice as th y are
} Catalines in vill nny. But the coward has
r his weapon, and often ttrikes the surest and
f molt fatal blow.
, Memo—\'o controversy about the close
. of the eighteenth century t« be carried on
; ! in future at my offic.-, between the hours of
9 and 4. J. w, F.
| The following lines written under a por
trait of Shakefyeare, by Ben Jonfon, hi
contemporary, have much of the pleasant
quaintnefs of that time.
The figure thai thou here feeft put,
It wis for gentle Shakespeare-cut;
Wherein the graver had a ftrife
With nature to outdo lite.
O, could he but have drawn hufwlt
A* well in brrffle, as he hath hit
His lace ; the pri would thro filrpafre
All that was ever writ to bradc.
Rut, ftnee he cannot; reader, look
Not on his picture, but his bookc.
The let ter of Logan, published by his I
wife, it of some moment in one point of 5
view, as it tends to prove, by his own word
of mouth, that lie a&uaiiy went on the a- ■
bominable erra-d Which was fufpe&ed.
rhisembaffy, rake it i'l all its pans, prc
fems an unparalleled display of impuderce,
folly and vice: it can rcfult only 1:1 the ex
posure and punithment of the eftor and his E
1
y
' ' •! ' ' ( ' • !
i curtained coafederates . th
adminiilratiun, vviih that upright and dii;-
- nifud spirt wincli lu3 h.'the."(> d:ft
: ed eli u» prjc.-edir.gs, regard'.-'ft o' t'ie crrcs
, of the crocodile, will ysntfu? u varyiiijjly
its rtra'ghtway course—that cuirfj which
l ' has c .inverted menace and insult i.710 crouch
- ; mg and fuppliancy, aid thai can aciuien
fjit fafcty, whic'l, and not peace, ought
• to be now the * «hjeit of our d.
: Already the nntli. d H irlequins tremble at
: our veijgeaf.ee—already they feel and c,on
t fefs i-.iir power. To the foul of a frivulou
/ Sanfculotce our cannon fhou'd convey our
. ovly addri fles. All without is now as it
I flimld be : that Providence which, how
: ever unacknowledged or denied, fli 1 holds
. at disposal, the deftini?s of thieving France,
- after leading us through, the tyrannous op
preffi ns i f fraternization, as
. to be bound down under the lash of fanfeu
lottifm, has at la ft led us to the pa,th of
; honor and fafety From this puth no Lo
; gan can divert us—no fa&ion can drive us,
: while at the helm (lands immovt atls as
lis, and as unchangeable, John Adams, Pre
r fident of the United States, amanborafor
the crisis in which Providence has p'aced
r him, and dedicated to the salvation of his •
. country, as much as M.ifes to that of the
s Israelites.
r Lying Prophets.
r The foolifh de i ocrats predidied, im
; swore, that the spirit of Ain-rica would
rouTe their matters to w ath. How (hallow,
Hale, and unprofitable are all the devices of
jacubinifm. They know not even what fluff
; themfeives are made of.
The following fail, which we copy from
1 the European Magazine, merits serious at
tention.
, '' A celebrated lefturer in Natural Phi
-1 lofophy fays, that when he was in Virginia,
. he was told, that in a certain diftrift of that
. province, au epidemic ferer had been long
f used to prevail, and to attack mod of the
1 inhabitants of it, iu spite of every precau
tion that the medical men ' co«ld suggest.
r Some Boftom'ans. however, coming to fet
c tie there, ( wliofe con fl ant custom in their
. own country is to wear flannel next to the
r fkinj, it was observed that they escaped the
, ! general infedtioß, which they imagined to
i I be owing to their method of cloathing them
. selves. The inhabitants took the hint, and
were never afterwards Aibied to their old
. disease."
Ft An English writer in just derision of the
| mock republicanism of the French, calls
i them republicanett.
'f'he immortal Milton in his anfvrer to the
Eikon Bafilike, of the unfortunate Charles,
thus fpraks of that unhappy monarch, and
his dilfrefTes : " To descant on the misfor
■ tunes of aperfon falling from f« high a dig
. nity (who hath also paid his final debt both
to nature and to hi* faults) is neither of it
i felf a thing commendable, nor the intention
I of this discourse. Neither it fond am
[ bition, or the »ain desire to get a name,
: present or with posterity, by writing agaiirft
t a king."
■ I Milton was a republican. Far different
i is the temper of Gallic republicanism. After
i cruelly butchering the bed of monarch#,
r that bloody crew even to this hour, heap on
f his memory the molt vile and flanders.
, In this particular your French republican is
i nearly allied to the Jackal.
Married, at Princeton, on Wednesday
evsning lalt y the Rev. Samud F. Suow
t den, Dr. 'John McLean, profeffor of mathe
matics, chemiitry, and natural philosophy,
in the college, to Mils Phallfi Bainbridge,
1 of that place.
The Subferibers
Have received by the l.ite European arrivals, the
S Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on con(ig»ment, which
- they otter by package to Who'.eMe Store Keepers,
or others, cn very advantageous terms, for ciih,
appr©\ed note*, or bills of exchange on^London.
1 Medford fer Willis,
No. 78, North Front Stra;t.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
fliawls -
Muffins, plain, ftiiped, checked and fancy
Balaioie, jaconet and liook haiidkeichiefa
Hins and lundry haherdathery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worsted, cotton and fancy hosiery
J Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorkfliire plains and broadcloths
e Pljin and (willed ceatings and duffills
. Caffimeres and t\»anfdown3
e Stripe, point and role blankets
s White cofore J and Welih flannels
j Knapt Kr-ndall cations
Worsted and mohtir plnfhes
Pe.vter, afl'o.ted in fraall calks
Spidcs, shovels, frying pans & ironmongery
e An invoice of Watches 4c
> 100 citks nails alTorted,
f nov 11 §
John J. Parry,
' CLOCK (5* WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at bij ttftial Stand, No- 38,
South SecondJlrat —-nvfere he bus for Sale y
A VARIETY or
Excellent Gold £jr Silver Watches,
AND A IIW
Eight Day Cclocks,
H'bicb ivill be warranted to give fut 'ufaEiion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Waicb <work done with
particular attention ns heretofore.
p gr An Appren ice wanted,
1 no-cember i a m.ui&fizu.
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED IVOMAN,
WHO unJtrftafldi Cookikc, and Housework
generally. Enquire at Ko. 109, Wai ,ut Creet.
nsvembcr is Co 6t
Ma«|»hi-ibn'.; Blues.
2ATTAJ.ION.' OHDER^
Kovemvr IQ, I 79V .
TIIE BLbrs ar? n a!r.mi;le;)u v\ r <-f,
n ? fday n xl at h.W p.ft 2 o'cLck, t\ hU
at tlie Centre Sq-inrc\
ROBERT HKr.rHA'A, Afy. p. 1
Fir It Light Infantry!"
fULUE SSltj
Attached to the First k»ginici!t, c-mmandcii by
Lieut. Col. Gur :ey*
I ""HE Members who hive returned to the Cits
are requeued t - attcn 1 a meeting oftheCou-,.
pan* at thehouf? of I.ieut D Irving, N0,6 D
Street, on Monday text, the Ijihin at 7 o'ekcl*
in i he Evening, on buEncfsof ths greatctt import*
a oce.
N. B. Gentlemen inclining to join, th Company
may have an opportunity by applying at the abota
place.
DAVID IRVING, ccmmati-tnt.
P. D£.NH/sM, ftc'j.
noveraber ta
Imported
In tbt last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT PRICES AND uM A LIBERAL
CREDIT, BT
p&*rr v kwtztng,
215 bales & boxes 1 icklcnburghs,
hempen linens and oznabriijo from j/c to
3/per ell jl
70 do. bleached and brown hefiians
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. strong do. do. for cotton do.
30 eneiU pLtillas I 2 do. fcaling-wa-x
3 do. dowlas * ackages oil-cloth
.50 do. creas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail.rwioe
12 do. efiopaillus 1 do w itches
15 do. BielefielJ linen 14 pip.» Port wiftt
90 do. patterb ihes yl cules claret
45 do Brittanias ,30 do fi.ie loig corked
I do. Holland caiiVifs claret
I do. Rullia do. : 600 bufads fine fait
3 do. Rutli.'. ffcectings 40 c.dWroll bri-nilone
1 do. ravens duclc ioq calks of naval Aorr».
2 do. Ruflia drillcns 50 logs prime niahcrai*
1 do. brown holland 4 bhds. eoffce milk
2 do. Silefw rouans b bund.es German ile;l
I d-.Wahreudrop hn n I 0 chests oi flatcs aad
1 do. Caraudoles pencils
I do. Fkmifh linens v package of &ate«
I do. cadabrickv and \ do. wool n oaj.., &c.
I * wn » 4 ehefla o| Nureiibeig
1 do diaper to y»
r» do. llripes kegs of yellow ochre
18 do."decks , ),hd, Glue
2 do. Ciamoi* 8 Leneilles
1 do. Arabia stripe s cheils of prime red
l do. buntiug for color crust Holland cheef*
I packa. Madras hand- , 0 k cg , ot p car j h ar le-/
kcrchi-'fi ,0 boxes of capers
I do. 1 urkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
6 bales empty bags foal leathsr
1 chest hair ribband *OO boxes window glafa
3 boxes tap;?, affnrted <jc«3 Demijohns
2 d«. bobbin, aborted ,o boxes glass tumbler)
I box threads & tapes afTorted
1 do. fine blue liftados 2 hhds. pnmice ftose
5 chcßs men's flippurs 1 box of mill laws
3 do bed ticks 1 calk of cutlery
2 cafls hog's bristles \ quantity ps done jugt
6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
4 do quills \ fsw fl>ips».icl srs, &e»
november 1# tM&ftf
Imported,
AND FOR IAII •«
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. g, South Water str*£T,
A 9CJAXTIT TOF
Surinam Cotton and Coffee,
IrHh linens, in whole and half boxes
Checks v
Drogheda linen
Irifli hackled Flax
Liverpool Salt «od Coal.
ALSO A rARCXL OF
ivlen's and Women's Combs aflbrted.
Scot's Thread—an 6
One hundred hogsheads of prime Aux Cayea,
MOLASSES.
11 mo. 12th daw
On Wednesday morning
IVILL BE LANDED AT HAMILTON*t.
WHARF,
And Sold by Public Auction,
AT IO O'CLOCK, A. M.
6 Butts Malaga Wine
4 Pipes Spmifh Brandy
15 Butts French do.
160 Quarter Calks St. Lucar Wine
100 Buxes Olive Oil
l'or approval endorsed notei at 60 & go dayu
Wm SHANNON. Auftionecr.
N. B.—To l'jch who may purchase for e*«
portat.on, t.ie necefiary export entry will be
injile fo r obtaining the draw-back.
•NOV. 12. { rw
Horses to Winter.
HORSES taken into Winer at Pee! Hall
Farm, two miles from the City on the
YYilTali'ick.in road. The terms may be known at
N.i u, North Thiid-flreet.
nov 12 end i-ct
WANTED,
A PAIR Of CARR AGE HORSES,
(BLACK, would b« preferred.) Apply at No»
124, Spmce ttreet, between Third aai Fourth
ll'ret ts.
iiovember 12 jt
On Saturday Morning
The tyh in/fan!,
WAS left n a back yard of a House in this
City, by some person unki»o«.», a Horie
with a Saddle and Bridle—The owner by prov
ing property and paying charges may have him
again—Enquire of the Prii te . fit
C*. The OFMCE
of the Board of Coram!lfioners, under
the 6th Article of the Treaty Of Amity,
with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street.
Nov. 12.
CO* THE OFFICE
OR the Committee appointed to su
perintend the building of the Frigate, is
again opened at No. 95, South Front
Street, where attendance will be given
to receive the fubferiptions of those gen
tleman who have notyet made payxnentj,
november 12. <jtfSamuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Price,
No. 31 CuasNi T strut,
Are now opening a very extensive njjortthent of
DliT GO u D s,
Suitable to the present season,
Which they have just received per
Ship- Fasor, Boyne, Otfego Sc. Indeptniience,
(via New York) from LONDON,
Ho, per (hips William Pcnn & Amiable from
Lomdon } and (liips Sally and Thoma* fiom
Livkrpool,
Which they itnil fell on very low term for
coJId or approved notes, viz.
Common and fuperfinc 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
cloths licocs
Plain & fancy coatings 7 8 cofttmcji and chintz
Plain and llripad cafli- fu^niturf^
mcres A very Urge quantity of
chintz.,s
Rose and duffill blankets H'urplo and chintz (liawls
Red and yellow flannels Lin<rn ?nd lawn pocket
Fire Welch flannels 1 andkiroliiels
Carpets and carpeting Camels'hair ihawlt
Jeannetts 61 tabby cord* av. ry large afl'oftment of
Velvete ens & veJverttts nhbomls
Thickfetts BritiPaj lain checked,Hri^
Cail.niancocs, durants & psJaiid tim our'dmuf
jcat,i 'ins of all dcfcriptions
Silk, cotton, and worsted . olorcd bordered ihawls,
a great variety
Cotton, callicoe, *3c fwifl 5-4 awd 6-4 conjevcrams
eheckj anil bettull^es
)>!Tiirtfs India booktSc jaconet muf
?, 4 and 7-8 dowlafi ;iij»
Paniafh table linen Laces and edgings
4-4 and 6 4 lheetings tilackand pat-nt lace
Irish litie ; .s Lace v.iis and figured
clocks j
JJa.idannoes Pulocgs and fattins
A Very large quantity ol I'crfians and farfan«t«
• •iik modei |.
And a variety of other articles. i
0T - 3 tu.tal'a.rm [ (
Smith & Rodman, '
No. 49, South Front ilreet, I ,
Havejujl r>aivedper the William Penn, and !
Jauk,from L .-.don, liiac.aand Thomas j c
from LirsßPoox, and Kingtton,
from hin.i, 1 r
A LARGE (3 GIN ERA L ASSORTMENT OF ( a
DRY GOODS,
AI4ONG V/HiCH AHe I
riain, twi'.l'd and (Iriped Crapes
Ooatii iPlain&ftriped I
?ific white a*J red We lib Worftcd, Yarn & Cdtton I 7
FUundi Hose J i
Do. yellow and scarlet do. en an 4 Boys Woollen |* a
and low price* Mittens »F
j-4, t-4, 7-;, iloth,ol|7-?^ each ' d lrin » D°w- I bl
ail colors ' a ' s [
Vlains and Halfthicks 3*4 brown Jiilh Linen fd<
Fureft and Hura fcloth.^'V^' C and b ' own Ir " in
° w °""" o
' i; 4, •»'-«.«• Drog^d a 'e b i,'^siicfi«
, v ßed * B :«nß»ck.ngdo. ; .g „ nd yaid . widc lrilh f
i oilanettM Li.ienj 1 10
Hoi,-, t> clßt a-.d Duffill Pimitd Caliicoci&Chin- I'
Blav.ke'cS ties I DI
Superfltie London Caffl. il'rimtcl aftd ber*| f"
meres of the n'ewcftan%ij der'd Ha idkerehteis I
molt falhionable colon, Ootion& illieoeChcrks I w
Low priced Yoiltillire do. ' Oread Edgings £# Laces j ' al
J J kiH and ttrijied Calii- Men's Braver Gloves I fe<
nvancots in
Joan Spinnings &Uuranu ai, < l ' »pei t3 flohbini lo\
Hi tauats tk Shaloons I ''"ickfcis ,nu Corduroys Igt
»!nr*vch Cambie-.s, for ! ,, U ." l "'. s a j d J ao f> C " ,ds >'« i
CUiaks Velvet* and Veiveueens | a J
?o:nb..z'jtts and Blirk "'^. anti olivt CoUon - aw
ades boi
V/iih i variety of Articles oil haiid, for
faie on [he most leifonahle termi fijr calh I ln E
or the ufcjal credit. I alt<
- - to.tfiAJa.tf j ne ntt
R. TAVLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR, ~
NO. 96, NORIH SUTH-inStT,
RESI'EC i H?LLY inlorms the Public that I
he continues to teach Ladies ths Piano
Porte ss.ttfiflfcl. j
~ ft" v ' f '' lij
Horles to Winter. k[ k 0
HORSES will be taken in to winter at Pro- I h.
*#££T Hill, »t die 11 Mile Stone, on the ifa.
BnQol road ; they wiM be well fed with lover Pot
cud timothy h.iy, well littered and cleaned, and fjer
, w.H ,lfo have a large field to exercise themfclves geu
in whfki the weather is good—En<juire of Mr. is n;
r/itha Sell, merchant, Watft llreet, or on the will
prtinifcs. as h
M " v 7 wf tf I thoi
NOTICE wh<
To Owners of Carriages, and wei
RetaiLers 0/* Wine Spirits. c °n i
TN C-)n:«q«!ifeof the late Epidemic in this »» E
i Ciijr. ndnihers have neg!e-i>ed tir enter their Are
Cdrriajrej, also the retailers of Wine and Spi- Ih,u:
rit ■ to call and take Of- their Licences. The WOll
rtturnliik health of the City, the Office is re- ! hrv
moved fr-m Cer.nantown to its former place, ,
Na. 49 North Third llreet, vhere those who ■ r<;e
hive muft call and pay the duty on '{! f
their Carriages, and those retailer's take out theii
Licences—Their ready compliance will prevent 'fj
incurring the penalty of rh f Law.
jf/IMES ASH, Collector arer
of the \fi Survey of the ifl ijnpc
DtviJSon »f N
Pliila elphla, Office of Infpeflion )
No. 49, North Tliird-flreet. V
no V-9 T'
DAVID M. SHIELDS, L'lio
At the Store No. 22 Chkfnut-ftreet. Stoct
JS.-gs leave to info> m his friends £sf cufiomers that L ® nc
has removed bis goods from Chefnnt-Uill, ' lolr<
Us is new ready toaccom»i*iatethem ivitb, Falm
COARSE and fine white, red green Baizes
in half pieces—Coarse and fine white Flan
nells-fi om if id, to 6f. a yard He ex pedis a
further fupplyby the firft arrivals from Scotland,
Ireland and England, ar.d is determined to fell pj,
low kir Cafli or a Ihort credit. __
7 jawtf
Cook Wanted.
WAN TEL, by a taiall regular family, a Wo- '"8 C(
roan conk who i* a thorough mifttefs of ia ,he
her huHnnfs and er:* produce fatutatfory rccom *hicf
rufndation. Any pvrf< n anfwermg the abov. ct i Ca
dsfcription, will meet with conOant empley a H ..
generous wages. Application to be made at th» No -3
olfice of this gazette. 13,]
To save trouble, no lrilh woman need ajip'y.
nOT - 6 1 ;t qa
NOTICE. "
SAMUEL RICHAKDET, informs the Gentle
ruen Sul.fcribcrs, that the E X C H A N G f.
is op'-nrd for their recrp.ion ; apd tha C/ T X rv
'/ A V E tt N, for Gcntlsmen Travellers
Latl Spring ad»ied an aJ.liti.un of twelve lied
Chambers to the 04?
perleitly convenicu*.
November 6> t lw 1
.
—. \ jOnk SHIELD^
: and -
B It O K E R«
l.n.'races this op »ortunhy tc ftrrjt'it his (banks
r io f'l'j-M citizent for their pafi fiyors
°J and aii/ iaii:Ji them that be ii returnedfrom
Chilnui I till, to his former refidcnee, the
HohJ'c he. i: Cbefnut b'tiueen Front
' ad Scrond-ftreet,
I pef lit ii 'U* kirafejf rejdy to execute
Mice, * * liieir ro.-imardi in ev.rv branch iff his
prof'effion, trnfti g tK it from a residence m this
Cily of yi years he hat it in his power to render
e Irom t | lem ffk,;,.,! fcr-vire, attiring them that his
lonl commiffiiiti (hali be as low asany in Town.
Lotts, La»ds, Houses, Vefiels, Certificates
ntsfor of every description and Bills of Exchange,
bought and laid, thedocketts carefully exim
, 'P«d rid clear titles made upon th* IhorteA no
tice, by the public's humble Jervant,
chintz . John Shields.
CjP Good negotiable N'oUa difc-ounlcd
tity of 11 a low P-emium
noveirihiff 7 ,^a«tf
JSS i'orty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED, ,
s From a Detachment of Men under my com• I
lent of mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz. c
. . . Uilobtr iq. (
d,flri t pEORGE KELLER, 40 yclrs of age, 5 >
mu \_T feet 6 inches in height, dart hair and 1
'«»» complexion, born in Holland, no Trade, fp. ak, <
"• broken Sr.glilh and very talkative, hat a dimple ! e
eranv * n 1 ' l ' n * c
November 6. John Murj>l»y, 17 years of i
► muT- 5 tct ! nches in height,' grey ryes, daik
nair and complexion, born n\ Ireund, city of
Dub in, by trade a Hozier.
ee Jacoh Iden, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inch«
gured firey eyes, sandy hair, frtih completion, *
| born in New-England, state of Connecticut, a
re ( ,ca; d defertei, by trade a Blacksmith.
its November y% W'ilUm Collins, jftyeatj of
[ 6 inches high sandy l air, lrelh com- p
S. I 1,,f x ' on ' t-' r "y eyes, bom in Ireland, county of l a ,
im I r * exiord, by trade a Oardn.r, his worked for Si
some time ib.-.ut Philadelphia, he is verv fond i,
I to hear hifnl'elf ling.
I All the above dtlerters are very much addiit- ta
I ed to liquor, and will fake other pro
and l im >' M ln 'heir power, are artificially rnaiked
I on their backs, had on, when they wen' away,
their regimental clothing. YVh soever appre
| tnds said d ferters, .{ut receive forty dol iis
I reward, or lev do.lai« for each, with ail reason-
I able expe res, by app s v ir-g to iotas above,
EpTVARL) MILLER, captain A
I id regiment of infat.iry co/iimuji^ir.z.
I " IV »o (
.ore. Sixty Dollars Reward.
ttton I A/TAD* their tfcape irom the Gai lin the ho- f 0
I 1 . rou S h of Lancaster, cn evening Ci
3 )) en I lad, between the hours ef 8 and 9 o'clock, t»2 r u
| French prifoncrs, part of tile crew of La Oroya- t n
low. ! ble. ' in
J The one named Etienne Aujiin, a native of Bor '
en f deaux in France, 26 years of age, about 5 feet r /
r " I lnc hcs high, dark eyes and complexion, by trade
I n car PJ nt ' r > fuppofeJ to be unacquatuted with the ?,V
I English or German language. Had on he
efias I We , nt a Vl ' l ' te hat; pantaloons, and &ort
nth ' acket ' m3l| e. and probably todl: with him _
I lonja other clothe..
bin- D T he named Peter Duftrieuk, a native of
I Bujotn in France, 20 ytar. of age , 3 bou' 5 feet 8
3(>r- I ,nc ' " e ? es . aitk co'mplexio'u, a seaman
fs I c y occupation, a dirty ill-lookiiig fdllow. Had on V ,
:ek» whcii he Went awiyj a Ijluc sailor's jacket, with
see. Urgctow trowferj,an old wool hat,(peaks imper
I ted German. ' r .
, '"' s cr "l^ e t!>e f '""e day, about nine !•«
>in 4 o clock ih the mor.Hiqg, ftyth the fame gaol, a ne- .1,?
oys «a man named Peter , al-out 5 feet 4 mlbe,
' ?}" flll I'ngc Uiitfnance, la;ely eoriviiibd ol
» ale.ony m tl,, h county. Had on when He went
- I away, a loiig l.iu coar., a pair ol white trovVDrs, ; n „
I boch ritirgej, and a Mack Hat. i
furl Twenty-five oil rs will be paid for apprehend- p,",
I tng and fecaring in aby goal, eith or either of the
I above aaired Jrenchmen, and Ten dollars far the
f I "Cgroj by
I Chriflial Carpenter, jun. fbertfF.
Lancaster. y., 8 f -
Forty Dollars Reward
lit I roR apprehending
no J A GENTLEMAN NEGRO,
Ti V name G*orgi or G,o»ge P/ibkek, 'he
XJ pro; eriy cf the fubferiaer. who ha thought
I proper on the night ot the n'i init. 10 e l 0 p« f ro[> ,
his niafter without ai>y provocation ot juit cause ;
a- h . was formerly the property of Betkwith Butler'
he I i.}. and lived a considerable time with ——
er Potteager.whokept tavern in Frederickburg,having
id fjen much company and travelled with several
es geutlemcß through different part, of this .late, he
r. lis much known. It is therefore conjeilured he
lie I will push forfomc of the nor:hern cities or town»
las he has difcoveredan avtrfion toplautation work, P° r
__ though he may perkaps have crofled the ridgi
I W lt - h'' has a brother bifonging to major Bu itr.
I This fellow Isabout five feet seven inch,, high,
| well proportioned and walks adive and brilk, his T
countenance is open antij.agrceab'e enough when of t!
is in good humour ;he can haidiy be furpatl in wi "
ir fhrewdni-fs, and is a very c.p-ble waiting-man, n «t,
j. iKiufc fervaot, barber, Ac to drfcribe i;is drcf, car f'
lf would be useless.as nc polTelTed a van ty of clothes l' ttle
.. thcugh when drefled lately, he wore a green coat w^'c
hound with white ferreting and fpotte jacket and defin
0 hree 'he.. Who«v<r br ugs him home or secures
in goal in this or any other ft ate the said slave, fa r,
that I may get hint again, ihall have the above re- fn| r ; t
"V - L ALEXANDER VASS. C
: Fa mouth. OA. 13, 1798.
N. B.—Mafter. of veiTels and Stage Driver. ,
are lequefted to beware of fufiering said fellow to lrrv
ipipole on them by assisting his escape. A, V
K*
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will he made to the Treasu
ry of the United State., for the renewal of the rr
following Certificate of S« Per Cent Funded ° ffice
Stock, ftandmg in the name of Jcbn Carbon,lt, of
1 I.endon, the said Certificates having lefn loft on
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from » fli
Falmouth to New-York. ■ »-
,
2564 * 5000 L TC
10,577 1 do. 3000 | 1
; J , Willing, £3" Francis. Har) "
Philadelphia, augull 30. eo6w ton,
Notice is hereby given, ~ khtl
THAT application wjlibe made to the treasury I wder
of the Vnited t tato. for the renewal of the follow- ' rate—
i*g certificate, of si* per cents, funded debts, stand- ! but ot
1a the name of fane Gaftrielle Rijpud, of Geneva, beam
which were loa f/wifcou board the Swallow Pack- lavs a
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York. taken
.. _ _ Dol.'s. P. t
N0.3195. Reg. office l 9 thMay ' 95 , iccrr. for xooc rnakir
do. 14th do. do. 1 for 3500 Newh
Willing, Francis. Front
-9 " U ' ' eod6w._
Printing Work, a
Of Every Kind. c,uate
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE. tingdo
At the OFnct cf the Gazette of the uuTc
Un lT £dStates. 7 Jolln (
'3% d*.
iulv
Penn/yriljii'ui,
Stfj.temher »d, i 7y3.
. y 9 the Hon<e at prtfent occupied I
Minks »V hy the Banlc of IVrinfylvjnia wateiit'cr
forj ed on the n.glit of ihcfirft irfltsnt, by fo-me *il
" om la!ns ' «'J»o robbed the loftitmicn of sundry
Batik Notes, amongst which were the follpw
ing post notes of the Bank of Nev-York, viz.
Ko 1002. dated jjd of Augtifl, 1798! Dills
" c " t . e ifTued in favor of Scab ring &
,! s Van Wyck, for 306 22 ,
in tnss No 1003, dated 2 jth of A'tguft, 1798, ,
en ': e . r ilKied in favor of Montgom- j
i;;s eryandNewboldf.fr " 1250 ,
No 1006, S7th de. do. do. 2000 c
do. do. do. do. 2000 I
1008, do. do do. do. zoo 1 ? i
1009, do. do. do. do. aooto t
no- 1010, 28th do. do. do. aooo 0
, ntl, Ai. do, do. do. aooo 3
° j jcth do. do. do. 1500
jnlcd J?t3» ifci. do. do. 00. 1099 t
Also lui.dry post notes of the Bank of Penn- f
l ' fylvanii, dated 2id July ilTiied in favor 3
ot Georg-' H'lghes, fur iirnr thoiifand dollars *
each, and fc ,dry po.'t notes of laid Bank, da- b
ted tjth of Jlily, 1797, iflwed in favor of Geo. c
com- riughes, IV five hundred d.Wars eich and in .
Z. dorl'ed by him. The fjiijilic are hereby cdution- ]
■ed agair.it rer:mn- the fa id notes-,'arrj ,a re- f
je, 5 war ! of TJVO THOUSAND DOLLARS i« ! is
- and hereby o(fcr;d fr,t th - .'.itcovfrr and (•■onvifl'.on j t -
I. aks of the villains who perpetrated or are concern c ;
mple | ed in the laid, robbery, in addition to the reward
| flier"! by the Governor of the Commonwealth
rs of in his Proclamation of tfiis day. t(
daik B? order of the Board, t
ty of JONATHAN SMifH, crihier. e:
Ichqf
This Day is Publilhed, I!i
'ion, ANDFORSALKBY J.FF.NNO, IiOtCHESNUT-SiRIIT i' l
it, a AN ADDRESS it
?o the People of Maryland, , r
* oi ON the origin, progrci's and prelrSt i\tte of
:om- , French a trillion, with a Iketch of the infamous c ,
y u> attempts t« degrade fheOovernrtient of the United bi
yor Statei, and sonic refleilions on the late proceedings be
fond in Congreis; written the lafl of April in the pre- t |,
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen- jv
tativs. § juiien to
keel ~^' ns Pub!ijbid~ ' h
way, And for faleat the t)/fice of thp Editor, No.
pre- 1:9 Chcfmit-ltreet,
I ars (P:Utf i-itb'rf a l)ot 'rir,J
son- AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1 798, flo
At thereqnefi of the Inhabitants of the Town of
H'OSrON, in commenMration of the anni- lat
veifary o! American fndependeace. fee
Jqsuh - ar
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
0- for repiration—Th* wronrs we havefuftainecl,
ll! 'S call for—Jwtict. That Keparation and that \ t - 10
■ A< ; Juniff. may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, |
*' '* ,U!l * -~s. But to d'rvictc and conquer was 1 IJt^
tnc maxiin of rfie Devil in the garden of Eden, I 1
.. f a "d to disunite and enslave hath been the princi- j
ade vot,ir 'es from that pieriod to the !if .
prefftnt. i ' tht |
Oiser-vMiem oh the Boston Port-Bill, & c .p. it ! pay
ort n btheldtej. %niruj,jun. ' du(
im ,
of DUTY on CARRIAGES. T,
t 8 ■ anc
Notice is hereby given,
hh T" AT t0 an aa'of Cocgrefs of the
j , 11 li State s of America, paffr.d at Pfeila- "
er ' d . e, H hla cl ": s«tb *iy w May, 1796, Uying du- ! ",?£
ties on carriages for the conveyance ofperfens, and * '
rapcilinft tAa former aA» for that pn-rpofe—That ! w
n th,rc fliall be ,'uied, and paid, C pon all £ '
oi S'uv.f 5 , lor s* co::v 'y auc e Of pecfons, Which |
fliall bt kept by or for any person, for his or her !
_ot own ufc or to Ut Outta.hire, or for the convey- f
' ," f pWcpgers, the ftv2r.il dfltiL-s add rates M- !
lowing viz. dofc.
'o For and upon every cpach . : c ~
upon evet-y chariot ,t lllte
he upon every port diariot 12 i P ' /'
upon evtry pbll chaik l% \
Bf with or without top 9
__ upor, every coachee y
upon other carriages, having panuel
wo, k above, with LlSnds, glaflcs, ( o
or curtaint
ttpon four-wheel carriages, ! S
he frame polls and tops, with (tec'i i 6 i
h t fprnigs j /
m uponfour-wheel top carriages, with ■} j
• ; wooden or iron fprines on iacks ( 3 * V "'
:r, upon curricles with tops , 1
_ upon chailes with tops. 3 1
ig upon chairs with tops , e
ai upon sulkies with t»p» ,
le "Pon other two wheel top carriages q fl ,
le lspon two wheel carriages wiili lieel*) ", '
i» or iron springs >3 i "
For and upon all other two wheel carriages »' u
:c upon every four wheeled «arrfert,S i
r- havin K framed polls and tops, ( » ! f f .
1, and refliug upon wooden l'pars i ir
' 5 of Th e « C ft'f a ° r 0f J h t rc . vc P ue o! lht faft divilioti ! ij?t
„ of the hrft survey of the difiria of Pemifylvania r
" at f tCn l ria ' !y Um ;' the 30Th da >' of September' , P Wi
~ next, for the purpose of receiving the dutie* on ' ~
carriagos, at Germantown, 011 the'M*i:i street, a I n
h I'ttle aboye the Cgn of the King of I'raflia, of • S''"!
t which all person, polMed of such carriages .^ e * ta
i desired to take notice. | cuml
Notice is also given, ! in
so all retail dealers in wines and foreign diftilleri '
WuoU'hquors, that licenses will be granted to ; " "
Une ' KCl ' Ce for "rrying on the bnlinefs of
retailing of win sin a less quantity, or in left i k
j UMt . ,t " :s , ,h,n -I© {, r »"on— and one licence for .
arrying on the bufineft of retailing spirituous li- i P , •
quors in less (jua;;tities than twenty gillons, at the i " C
fame time and at the fame place, by mltel
r JAMES ASH, \y W J
Colleilor ef the ift diviCon of the ift houre
: nm„ f , t ? rV ir ofth hat
( Oihce of lnlpeAion at Germaotown, 7 flrc P
■ 2ld August, 1798. j- 3d.
E ls r y denominatioa of Stamps to be had dividi
at said office. r as to
— —— — niann
Patent Ploughs, in > r >
TW w fi a<h by ofe P h 3alter at Atfion ?i"g h
Ha t w rd r e " S ' C °°P er ' 3 Perry—Jonathan p J? .
Harker, Woodbury and JefTe Evans, Lumber- or bu
ton fbofe who haveufed them give therrt the , t K
L " rt " cc , to W other kind, as they require ings 0
I »rder r'l f Sr ° U " d bttt "' are ke P l nol c
' rat/lrh 1 ,X^nce = nd * r = fold at a cheaper each >
I hnt on f T si,n P l!fi<:d and confilts of tliat (
but one piece of cali iron, with the handles and t |, O „
beam h f ",. ,h ty may bef,«d with wrought jli J s °
taken oi"; , | t c X°e bCPUt ° B *** ,h " a
Patent lights for vending with inftrudlione for °j
Newbold or Th J W J ° h " i
Front flreet " N °" 2,2 North '-U
Who has for Sale;
A ter "> oftws, which
Ctuated fTr Mdt " lujbl ! J l tria « »f Land, well all res
Ivi-ti rnv H I •*' °. n ork * or Farms, mod- requin
y improved, lying chiefly in the county ofH»,-,- ftlves
S n ! a,,ot P r n ' y! "n U . Those who may T>
incline to view them will please to applv to the eo
John Canan elq,near Huntingdon. " ' or ope
. j Clatle; pi ices
&Y l t savnf i thej
P it 0 I'd SALS,
■'pled
fnt'cr- Infuranee Company of North America.
jnilry * r Jnsurancs opainiV Fire, oil Dwelling--
.Uo v' Koi.lcs. VVVrc-Houfcs, and other Buildings (and
v z oh Goods comakied in such Buildings) diftint From
" Philadelphia, in the United States.
T. Common luforancef, on ha&ards oP the firft
'halt per c?r,c. per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a fcvrgrr will U : required, which
° will v*i y according to circuvftancc#, faklom ex
>o one tter cent. per annum ; but in some in
to fiances, where the property insured is not only in
)? itfi-lf extra hazardous, Uut rendered {till more Co
to by the vicinity of ext.sc. hazardous building* and
>0 occupations, the premium demapdedwi'.l be raised ! (
0 according to circumAafccta.
,o Hcwltta and the walls and pcrti- j .
9 tijpns of w&jch are wholly of stone or '••rick, well
*cnn- as to b<? guarded as well as may be
f a .. o r fires front' and Iree from extra ha
>lUrs a *"doUs buiMings and ccccupations in their neigh- I '
ila- horhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
Geo. m ay insured to their full value,
d:n a °d Merchandise, not o' an extra '
tion- I hazardous kind, in ca&s. bales, or package, tic
a re- ® n buildings, to an amount not ex- ,
?S is ! ? ec ~*'* n £ dollars ; but if more than tiiisfnm
t'on '*• to^e insured in one tenement, an addi "
- rioual premiu.n will be required, in proportion to t|
rl j cxrc wnniapc«».
11. Infuratices will also be mule on buildings aftd ((
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the tilcji.But his not cafy to arrange these -
under particular heads pr claifes, so as to defciibe
• cac h with the necefTary accuracy. Eachcafimaft A
therefore be dccMsdupon according to the circuni- *'
liances attending-it ; and these circumftanco* wili,
' xet i» JTe«?eral, appear from the dcfcriptioii acconipa- j
VyiJjjg tfee application.
Buildings partly con ft ru«sK?d of brick or stone, -
are preferable to those wholly wooded. And in n
e ° both cases, the stile of buiUintr, how the y arc oc
nous capied, hoav they are fituatc*!, the neighboring
* ltc buildings, andfiow ocfupicd, are considerations to
lin gs be taken into view. Aud vsHth refped togoods, a <
P re - their tendency, whether from their rue re, or "
:len- f rom t t e manner in which they are exposed, ether
to commence or to increase an accident*) fire, and
their liability in such itare to rtceivc damage by a '
or by sudden andhafty removal, or to be tto- J'
11 °* lei) in time of confufton and hurry, are all cir
cum (lances of weight ; and the f>rcmiutn* mufl be c!l
proportioned accordingly. l u
111. Tljc fotlovring conditiont are to be under- - Kl
flood by the parties .- P J
nof ift. The Jufurance is not binding till tke ftipu- j! u
nni- lated premium be paid ; but it {hall be deemed ef- .
feclual from the time of such payment and accrp- in
tance tl«creof, whether the policy be immediately
roll signed or not. St
tail ° , r
leu 2 Inlurancsi may be renewed at the expira- '
hal 1 f '° n °f 'he policy, without further ex
, | t ' lan the payment of th# premium of the rc
' j newed term, the circumftancescontimiiogthe fame
,v '' s ,as they were tmd«rftood by the Infurcrs at the time _
i the toroier infuranee was miide ; but {he p.iy.mil'
l'" i '' le P rcm ' um eflential t» such rrndwal ; and ■»
' |if tlw p»rty insured fuffers any time to elapfc after •»
i the expiration of the former infuranee, before he
7® i pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; Hor can the infuranee be rfenew-
i ed en the former poJicy but by ctimputing the
| commencement of the renewal from the expiratibn
of the former infuranee. The fuhjedt of infur
anee may ne/erthelcfs be open to treaty for a new
infuranee.
3d. If other infiirinte betaadeim the ftme :
, e property ; it mijil be made known at the t/'itie of
a * : application, otlitrwife the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
, !1 i 4th Goods held in trust, or on confignmstit,
Ml insured ss such in a separate policy j but
', , they aret;o: ta b'.'cc'nQdered ?s infiiredßtherwire. of
! jth. I tiis company will not be liable or accoun
*cr v tabic for any loss or damage owcafioned by any for
'l" ! clgtHnvaSpn, arty »n)> military or ufur.pcd force- T7
! or by I'if/on of any civil commotion ; oroccafion,
, cil by gunnow3er, aquafortis or other thing of th- T
J S like Kind kept it: the building, or amonird tlie pro- ~
12 ; pcrty infufed.
, 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and ether Secn
% i "ties, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro- V
9 milTary Notes, are not included in any infuranee ; V
9 nor ate pnisrings, -nedah, jewels, gem#, antique afTij
ourioGtie.s or mirrors exceeding the value of twen- mij
9 ty-fivedolla.ue;;ch, to be considered as insured une the
j iWs particularly mentioned aad by fpecialagree- mei
; mcnt. ° j,
Jill. No infurarrce will be made for a shorter wh<
! term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- r«p
2 j veil years. i ; irfoiis choosing to .nfurc ftr seven pec
i years Hull b fallowed one ywir's premium by way No.
3 of difeount i One third ot a years premium (hall will
3 be abated in l:lt£ manner on an infuriate for are
3 tLree years.
3 BtU. Loflesfuftaincd by fire ea prof erty insured,
3 fliall bs paid in thirty days after due pro u f and li
-3 quidation thereof , without deduilion.
j A defci iptioa of the property to be infurod will
1 | be ejcpciSW with uach application, to be made by »'
, a tuafter carpenter and signed by him, as well as M
2 bytheoweerof the building oi applicant for in
j furai.ee, and »ttefted bcf< re a Notary ot nrincipal P
11 Msgiftrate, who will certify his knowleage of the
J > parties an<i their credibility. and
:r j With reipeil to Heufes and other Euikling«. " n '
11 | lit. iUe .foe and pofitio'Tr; deii-rHring the
j 1 : fired- or road on or near which the budding rc S 5
. iiands ; its contiguuy to water, and othir cir- P' lo ''
j cunillantes relative to the extinguiOiineiit of fire ,et^ c
jin cafe of accident; and particularly whether wrlt
; any and what fire companies are eltabl fiu-d, anil
i engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. wi "
®l 2d. ihe materials of which it is buiit, whe- P o *"
1 • ther of brick, flone or wood, and wliat part of
s • each, as well as to the outside walls as inlitfe or
r j partition walU, and their rcfyeflive height and p,
I ■ thicknels ; the ityle of the roof and of what '
' materials; howfecured by battlements or par
ty wal|a ; what kind of accefsto the top of the
t house and to the chimnies ; whether any and
what elettrie rods j the number and kir.d of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. Thedimenfionsof the building and how
j divided, and the- style in whifch it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent pcrfons to judge in what i Qar
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of |
injury ; the rge and condition of the building, j
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
i ling house, or for any other, and for what pm- A fel
i j pole ; also an ellimate of the value of the heuio
or building independent of the ground.
4<h. The fituatior. with rcfpcdl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, a; leaf! or..- hundred feet |ul
each vay : what kind of buildings are within
; that dillancc, how built, cf u'Jiat materials,and
: how occupied or iraffroved, whether as dv.vl
J lings for privalO fam.ili« or otherwise : whe- *'
ther any and wh*t trade or m3nuu.(f\ory is car- 20
ned on, and jwikularly whether there be any 5 5
extrahazardous articles uftd, or ufnallv depo- i 5
sited in the or within thd diilauce afore- , °
laid, and of what kind.
Uefpeifling goods is, Houses, Warehouses, & c It'
*. A genetal defcriptton of the buildiotr in i
wl.ich they arc- kept will be expefled, similar in
° r f'Ps : <Ss,as to the dinger Irom file, wirti that '
reqmred tor Infuranee ou the buildings them-* '
lelve*. * 4.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of W '
th? goods, whether in cats or other packages
or opened - and whether Uifplaved in whoij 160
pieces oi ill the u!ua! form for retailnnf. Au.<
l the goods varyTTijtcriiilY in Liod, a\-en-r- :
1 ' Spr
jeflmuu- XU'At eack£ißd
j be ntfurro i 'out in the last vtr'icuhr
nelsof rfcfcr.'ption iv (10 ( expelled.
3 ' Articles of the follow-in? kiadsa,. A
r:ca. £ d C v trj r j„„„ ~ .5 Kiaas a re Jeem.
ea extra »*.-rdous, though in various dc-i-e«
slling- "! * klt£ "r bMlUiag lh . y w ,
i(jnd rof . n> I *£
t From mfiamnub* Ipinu, h ' fl , w ' cll »
Srf
Okifs, china ware or porcelain »Av~- n
e firft pa, fcttl; Looking jd-fles, j ewe le ry .
about ther articles mors than commonly inflammable"
irdteus cr rrore than commonly liable to injury by fud
which den removal or by mo, Cures, or particular J
. wnoxiofts U theft on v an alarm of fire
Z 'in ,u tcr j p °r ** 4Ud f ° the Secretary 0 f
ore Co J C °"l rd °J r f° rs ' be duly attended
«. and f ** f r for Jnftrance accompanied bythi'
railed ! 01 P= >" n S the pretofom, will be mime
, d.itely executed on the premium being paid, if
pcrti- ' a PP !iCJI,on contain an enquiry only, it wil!'
well be. i altered. " u
ay be % or,ler of the Board,
-aha- ebenezer Hazard, s«v,
eigh- I °Jj lce °.'fth* lafurance Company i
; firft! America ; Phi'.ad. Feb. i, |, 9 8. t
I 4' ianitf
'i'KEASURY
>* et- June in, mtfk
,r„m IVJOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That byVtf
addi t ' ue of 2n = a - passed during the profent fcf.
hi to ! llon Cong-refs, so much of the ail entituleif
" An AS making further provision for the fun.
•sand " r» rt . f ' public credit, and for tha rcdempt 10n
.oned " " f tile l mtlic debt - '—pelH-d the third day 0 (
these arcil ' °' e thousand fever hundred and ninety/
ciibe fivc ' as lr - r ' fr " ra settlement or allowance
mult Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
cum- sna'5 na ' ' i:, ' Cl " en t Certificates, and Indents of In
wili, fc ' refts > is suspended until the twelfth day 0
nrra- •' Ullc ' wl< ic!i wiH be in the year one thousand leven'
hundred and niseiy niu
lone, . lhat ? n bquidation and fettlemwitof the
d in C<j rtificar?s, and Indents of Jnfereft, ut the
e oc- ! rc:lf y r )"> l he Creditors will 6e entitled to receive
, r i ng Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockeqinl
ns to to the amoirnt of the said Indents, and. the arrear.
jods, a^ t ' b o{ intLTtfi: <lue . n their laid Certificate, prior
~ ur to the firll day of Januar; one thousand icvcn
tber hundred and ninety oae.
and 1 bat the principal fumsof the fjid I.oan Office
eby ar>d Cn "' fettlemeot Certificates with the interest
{to- '• lar,>oll . fmce the firft day ot January, one thou
cir. -and seven hundred and ninety one. willbedif
tl be ch *'gi«l after liquidation at the Treaf«ry, by the
pnynimt of intercft uid r.imborf.medt of prinei
jer- I ' e qual to the fun;» wl.wh CTrnild Knvc been'
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had beta
ipu- fuwcw'ied; I'urWit to the AS» making provision
i cf- rt )e of the United States, eonrraated dur
cep- ,n S 'be late war, and br the payment of other
tely ' unis . c q n al to the market vMue of the remainb"
Stock, which would have been created by such
ira- asaforefai l, which market value will
, £x _ be dettrtuined by the Comptrulli'r of the.Treasury.
ire- OLIVER WOLCOTT,
unc . Secretary tie Trtafurn
ime l""g a 8 law , t /
atd „ FO , R saTET"
fter I hfi Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
: he Benjamin Montciih Maflor, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OP
:W- 945 Feiegas of Cocoa
the 400© lb. as £lora Indigo
son 310 Balrs of Cotton
ur- 4 P&ckages of Goat.Skins
ew By Willing, iff Francis.
No. Eleventh, lirett.
_j"' y i: dtf
ap- Madras and Verttapaulem
nt HANDKERCHIEFS,
i ut Searfaukers and Carradarriss,
e. of the uewefl and most approved pattern*,entitled
in- to the drawback, juit received,
or- AN S* FOR TAt.E BY
«V Miller £jf Co.
No. 64, Soath Front (licet.
•a- may 18.
AD V K RTISh ivIENT;
:n-
r °" J AMES Cummino (3" Co. late ot
:e ; VV the city oi Philadelphia, m.rtbants have
ue afijgned over all tb -ir efleSi, real, nerfor-al and
:n- mixed, to the lubferibers, for the benefit of all
me their creditors, who PaH fu.Sfcribe the said allign
te- ment within fix mo'iths froai the ilape hereof
NOHCB IS HEREBY GIVEN, to ahpeifoos
ter who are indebted to (he fiid estate, that they are
fe- required to make immediate payment of their fef
en peclive accounts, to the Affig-.iees, at t'ieir office,
ay No. 61, Dock street, in failure v.hfreoi" ailioos
all will be jnftituted for the recovery of such debts as .
'or are no: discharged accordingly.
John Travis, ">
t: J l}n Waddington,l . _
Jntries Taylor, f A%oee S ,
ill Cornelius Comegys J
at " ru< * t8 mwftiD
M ails for South-Carolina iff Georgia,
al PACKETS arc now provided for carrying the
:ie . mailsby water between Phila ielphia
and Charleltoii. They will leave Philadelphia
"n Pj iday 4. Tlwpoft by land will Ue enntinu
1£ td twice a week an cxpmitrcut if made Hi
,jj rf g"J to the expedition and regularity 0 f the
r . packets. If any peifon chiifes to have their
- e letters lent by land only, thty will to
, r write the wcrd Land upon the letters : otber-
J w !ff be . rent by that conveyance which
1. wi 'J fi'ft ftarc alter the letters are left in t!>e
poU-effiLe.
lf 7°f e ph Kaberfhan:,
d P/,7 j 1 ■ „ after Cemerl.
' h "ad< A 't>bia., Jugu/l i 7 98. ;; .
Bengal Goods,
c coNjiSTixn OF
d BANDAKNa HANDKERCHIEF'' I :
f Chintz ColTas * '
C-'hintz Guzziaas Tookereys
v Elialiad Jjaftai Wrought MuJCina.
5 Long Drawers
t j Coarse Su^ar»in bags, fit lor the European machei*
f JC-S.l,
I Carolina iu.ii/ >
Coffee in-ho^iheida
. A fevv P 1 ?" ot ' vc 'y o!a very choice Madeis*
V/INK .
Fo? Sale, on re,afoi?ahle term*, by
John Craig,
r . . J»o. 12 Doch-ilrert.
t ..P t r T i M mw. : f__
> For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
fcfibers, <jn Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of ii»il» aff.irtetl
lobalcs effaitranvalv, from No. 1 toB
| : 53 cases yell.>w ochre
15 tirtces l>ottlcd port«r, 6 to 14 doz. esch
London particwiai' ) ...
India j "*' , l C ' ra
Tc-ner.fl'e do. in ho^llieadsand »i«
Old Port do. in hhds. ' 1
Ewjity Cliret bottles
j 6 of Ginghams, Muflineri&-
I aflbrted for the Well-India marke" *
4, to. and 9 inch to cnil VJ f cord
Wilting flutes. Kit llaucis a ; id preiTo*
»o purebe u>« Jam ica rum
i lia'ic lcammg twine
160 bundle* fiacutiiinj; paper
Nirklbj & Griffith.
apr;l7