of tfjc Dally Advertiser.
Number i702.j
FOR SALE,
The Schooner
THREE SISTERS,
Burthen 85 torn, two years oH
. built of the Weft material*, and now
r cady to receive » " r g°- Said vessel may be view
er at \i r- Samu 6 ' Brewer's wharf, Keniington.
• ALSO,
HARRIET,
Burthen 7; tons, three years
- 1
ed at Messrs. Fettel and Bayard's wharf.
Those Vessels are well calculated for Coaftrrs,
and hare been employed in the trade between Phi
ladelphia and New-York—They have excellent ac
comodations for Passengers.
For terms, apply to
Gurney & Smith.
February 16.
Nicklin if Griffith,
At their Store i>n Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVa FOR S4Lt,
58 Midi. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes aid hhds.
Teneriffe dp. in pipes
Old Port do. in hlid*.
Imperial Tea in qmrtrrs and eighths ef chefb
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8 .
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muftinets, in packa
ges fuitaUle for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted
jßiaok quart hot tips
Qneens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow echre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as soon as the navigation la open.
Fine Liverpool Salt
G»al« 1
Sp.inifh Brown "|
Venetian Red
Km" \
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles She*thing paper
Sfamtng Twine
Fer Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
N- B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
Is now changed to
NTCKLIN fef GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
for Savknnah,
' Tiefajt failing Ship
SWIFT packet,
regular trader)
otSmCv-®' - *' Patrick Gribben, master,
W!LL fail on the ioth inft.
(ice permitting) has handsome accommodations
for passengers. For freight or passage apply to
the mailer on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Mark«t-fireet, or
N. Isf J. Frezier,
No. 9s, South Front-street.
February 3. §
For Amftercfam,
The Ship
F A R M E R >
jvCR John M'Coilom, Master ;
WILL fail in a ft# days, the
EJviiiialfesSgreater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
passage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-ftrect Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Whp is landing, out of the said Ship, frond
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a fopcrior quality
Fontiniac, T
Santerne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novcmbe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
A GOODHOPE
Will carry about taoo barrels, and
«LEi a -s/ it ready totakein a cargo. For terms
Spply to
Pragers Ss 3 Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. - dtf
Flax Seed for sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street.
January ay $
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the mnnufa<ftur« of Window
Otafs is now commenced at the Olafs House in
Lofton.
It is ncedlefs to fay any thing of the excellent
•quilhyof the Boft.n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States t® be in every ref
pc£l greatly fuperi»r to any ever imported Irom
Europe.
It will he cut to any (ize commonly used ; and
may be constantly had -by applying to QbaAti F.
Knpfcr, attheOlaf> House.
Orders frcm the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore. C»urt-ftr»et. Boston.
Two or three good Glaf« makers are want
mA at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, maybefurcof
employ, by application to Mr. GtcrgeL. Lindt, at
the works. Men without families nill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the methed
l>f r» a\ ing Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame cnconragcaeßt.
Dofton, January 16 1 aawftw
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM \ M arrived from fngla*rd, wants a
pJtee M • Nurfcor attendant on ihefick, either »n a
Gcmlenaaor Litlv.—-futihrr Information apply
•t N*>. io» Soiuh Foath ftrte' r oear Mar We ftrect.
PrWi fc. 31
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 22, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Ettates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February nfxt, will be expoled to Public Sale,
at the Merchants* Coffce-houfc in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. I. A two story brick Honfe, with t fw«
story frame Buildings, on a lot ao feet front and
ioc fe«t deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet (quare,
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 200 dollars per an
.r urn, and is situated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second-streets, the fecoad house from
Mr. Caleb AlhY
No. a. A three story briek House, Htuate at
the north raft corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-flreet, and ao f#et on Chefnut
ftrect, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the heft stands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftree*, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40 This oufe is built and finifhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer t let for 600 dollars par annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
PUimb street, between Second and Third ftrect,
being ao feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick .House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is ao
feet front and 48 f«et deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter calb,
one quarttr in 6 months, one quarter in 9 month's,
ard one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan. ia, 1795. 3aw
gy~ On account of the present bad weather, the
above sale i.« postponed until Thursday evening, the
fir ft day of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
"JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit Weft India market
40 hoglheads Whiting
Iseo buiheh good House Coals
ALSO —JUST LtKSED,
4 r c barrels prime Beef, Boston and New-York
JO barrels Pork
150 hhds. Havanna Molafles
Woolen Cloths
Blauket* > assorted in packages
Hard Ware j
Ravens Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bririfli, of various fiais
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I grcee each
A general assortment of Queens' Ware, ia crates
Fowling Pieces and Fiftols, in cases
Bafkct fine Salt, in hoglheads
»0* SALE BY
Thos. y John Ketland.
February 15 fttM
The Subscriber
INFORMS those whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judg«s of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the Pwenty-Jixtb day of
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
1 Court-house in this city, on the fubjedl of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Insolvent Law—and
fthat their attendance is deOred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PbUadttpbim, Jan. 16. Cota6thF
The Subscriber,
Informs thofs to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for Aeininfpec
tionfince December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation snd fciut : ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 11l 1798-
1 Surveyor General's Office,
December a, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres.62 perches
of land, fiiuate in lower Smithfield town Ac ip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of ad March* 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhcad, Lfq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearin* of the parties on the a 1 ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leaf! thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary
of the Land O Rice.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §t 1 Fzwtm
Salisbury Eftatc.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contr&S his bufi
ness, offers this Eftue lor sale, fen moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conced
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
weie lately built loir the purpose «f casting Cannon
tor this State.—-There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Paflure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, arnd probably, equal
to any in tbe world ; for not cmic of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 94 were bored
into 32 pounders, have f«l<d on proving. The fnu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aad a place of arms lying in the state
of Conneftijcut. and only 30 miles from several land
ings on the Hudfon*s river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of olher
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can bcaccommodat
ed with all theftoekand utensils, and have pofleflion
on or before the firft ot June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately theresker, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c» For
terms, apply to Mr. Jofcpjh Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Elq. one ot the Reprcfentatives
in Congress for this Stare ; Mr, ft.ivid Waterman, on
thepreinifes, or to the proof ietor in New-York.
William neilson.
Pee, t.
Landing this day,
From on board the ichooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Craw lev, Master,
S"p J c". '" J { Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Iff Son.
utnftmbcr 9. d
By John Femno, N°' 119 Chefnut Street.
term of Co-partnerlliip between the sub-
L fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
kr, jnn. and Co. expires tljis day, and by mutual
consent wilt not be renewed- The debts and con
, cernt of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
, Jun. to whom all those indebted,to the partnership
are earnestly requested t» make payment to, with-'
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J„n.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 <stf
FOR SALE, »r '
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chtfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AM»N»ST WHICH Alt—
Gurrahl t Mameodiei
Baftat Sannas
Guzzenai Tanda Coflaei
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handltereliief»
Amongst them are a great proportion ofthema
nufadlures of Patna.
JBriti£h Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 g
A/ex. J. Miller ts 3 'James Davis,
Having entered into partaerfhi? under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
th< y have opened a Wholefile Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Erent S/reet, Philadel pliia ; where
tliey now have, and intend keeeping a general as.
fojtment of India, German, Irjjb, French and Bri
tjb Mar.nfaAures for sale, on advautageous teraie
for calh or a Ihort credit.
February 19 s,f
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the ship India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will fee fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wi*e,
of the vintage of 1795.
Merdecai Lewis.
February 19 davr
* A PRINT.
THE Print, representing Genual Washinc-
Tom and hit family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the ijth of
March next.
An unfinifhed impreflion is to be seen at Mr. M'El
wee«'» looking-glafi (lore, No. 70 South Fourth Street.
The fubfeription will elofe on ihe ioth of March
next. Subfciibers may depend on having the bell
Printsat me guinea titd an half. To GOB-iublcriberi,
the price will be Iwo guinea*.
February 19.
O* Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his mailer's employ, in the
city of PhHadelphia, on the sth of thisin
(lant Febi*iry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his pbifiogniroy bet not
difigreeable ; his age is fuppofid to be about 40.
He had on when he went away, a (hort blue cloth
coat, flriped caffimere vest, corduroy breeches,
arid yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture—
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a (liort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of blue
doth breeches ; the other cloathae he took with
him canpot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eastern
shore of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his master
may get him again, or bring him home, shall have
a reward of twisty dollars.
Apply to Printer.
February 7. 5
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common jreal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented Us petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, pra> ing that th'ey wuld
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gamfl his liberation, pursuant to an ail qf the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an id for
th.- relief of insolvent debtors," pafltrd the i6th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the i6th day of March
next for the purpose afnrefaid ; to meet at the
,Court House in the Middle Precin<sl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of t"he said day, of which
his creditors are requeft«d to take notice.
CHARLiiS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. T4 —Tiwr^v
Princeton—Newjerjey.
To he Sal J,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two stories high,
of f rawe work and painted. There are four I
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is ptved with,ftoncs. In it area well of excel
lent water, an oven, a and house
for allies—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, gravery. attd convenient llables. with four
flails fer horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 61 feet wide upon the street, and 154 feet
de»p, somewhat more than half of whkh is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, whiih will he made very reason
able, apply to the ieverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. iaw4w
IN THE PRESS, ;
Andffecdily will be Publijhed,
For the htnefit of the •
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein : -
IVritten at Sea, in the year 1794 •
And now printed
Mr THE AUTHOR.
M A navt would he maintained but to an almost
ufeleft purpefe which taking the feam-n kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading veflVls
would he at unprofitable employed, if they took
all (kill and courage onboard ship?
of war, would givs them pr tedtion and fecurc
their ftfetv. We ha v. enough for both purposes,
and the cultivating hnnd ef attention alone is want
ing to multiply their number. ** Money may buy 1
" al: naval (lores, except mariners; but, unless a '
n ftppir of them i» prcferveii, no wealth will be
4t able to procwe them.*' t
February 7
Bafkenridge—for sale
rT eonfifts of 920 acres, *lmofl all of which it
a firae rich Meadow, (the rcfidence of the late
Hurl of Stirling). It may be .conveniently dixided
.» into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafuiek. N
Th re are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly th~ee aeres-—-The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one. and 4 a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard corfiltsof 1500 fin*bearing engTaf
ed Apple Tree?—and there is on other p%rtt of said
tra&oear 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the
bell and inoft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTrew, that add to the beauty and eonv«ni
ence of the plare. Its situation is ab<rut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Eliiabeth : 10 do.
frona Morris-Town, and it from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafla, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 73, Chcfnut trefct.
February a. eodtf
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed,'at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, tha cargo of the fchoorier Frede
rick, fbtirg Packet, Captain Ptarce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. I)o. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.'
Figs in k gs
Almond kernels in casks and boxes
Soft ftiell'd almonds in sacks
Piuncsin boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, See,
The whole of the ax tides (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February $ d.u
Prilon Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Pfifcn of the City and County of PhiladcW
phia,
Cut Nails of ail fixes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for ctirrier's tablet,
tomb and head tlones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window fills, c .
All which m ay he had on reafonablc terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diflance, dire&eS to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the psifon, will be attended to.
December a 6. mth6m
For sale or to be let on ground*
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreers, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two ftorv brek hnufes, and a
number of small renernrnts thereon.
Also, for Sa'e.
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stoics, wh2rf, Ike. si inreon
Water street, between Mulberry an 1 Saflafrae
Streets, containing in fiont on Water Ilreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, tltfii weening to the
Couth thirteen feet fix inches. These houfet
have the c«nvenience of a puh] c alley adj in
ing en the north fide, and area very dtfirahlefit
uatiou for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have ocejfion for do age of goids.
This property will be fe d on very reafmnble
terms for ejfh. For turther intorir.stion apply
to the printer.
J" y 31- mfcwtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-flores of Meflrs. Dob
son, Cavpbfll, Young and Okmkod,
in Philnrtclphin,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To xvbicb is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailicc of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefling fa&s and refleAioni relative to
the Synocbus lSieroidtt, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in fipveral of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philoiophicai So-
Feb. i
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, theaoth '
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN*? Lottery '
and Brokers OiTice, No. 64, South Second-street
-in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten 1
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- '
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing- j
ton, No. H.and Patt«rrfon Lotteries, and informa- 1
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the btates of the 1
Union. *
N. B. The bwfinefs of a Broktr. in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, .
difcoxßting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houles, &c. &c. will bedwly attended to,
Wk BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEEDILY WILL BR PUBLISHED,
fPr ice 15 Cents J i
Reflections on Monroe's Vi«w
OF THF. CONDUCT OF THR FXfCWTirt,
As published in the 5
GAZETTE of t.|, e UNITED STATES,
Under the figtiatur* «f
SCIPIO, I
In which the commercial warfare of France ii
traced to the Trench faflinn in thii country '
at it! I'ource, and the motives of the opposition
t»the meafuret of the United States are exposed. '
Fob. 8.
FOR SALE,
BV the subscribers, No. ii, Penn-ftrtel,
« The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjiing of
Eaftas, of various qualities and pricey
r CofTaea Punjum Cloth*.
Sanahj Guzieydo.
1 Humhums Charcouna Dorca
Bine Cloth Tanjibs r w
. Chintz and Calkoet Mulmfili
[ Mamoodys Checks «
! Maharagongea Patna Hkfa.
: Ginghama Mulmul do".
Guzzerias Bandannoes
1 Gurraha Sifierfoy
Piniafcota Choppa Rornak
Salgatchya Sooty do.
Gillie Romak Perfiane of Tarious sel,.
Macic Pulicata
100 ions SUGAR
9»,0c0 lb. PEFFER.
Witlings if Frnntis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open to fate at that
commodious flore the north weft corner of
Market antl Fourth-ftreeta.
Alfo —A few Biles nf Macirafs Hkfi. of el#-
I gam patteri s and best colours
j FcK'ruary ?. dtf
FOR SALE, '
By WHARiOft if LEWIS,
Ho 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th prool Jamaicaßum, 7 entitled to
lit »i«f ad proef Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &e.
Ff ■ 0 eodtf
67. Croix Sugars.
26 hogftxrada best ST. CROIX SUGAR,
TOR SALE BT
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 fm&wif.
Wanted,
An a<slive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
and do the business us the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no othtr ucedap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doftor of a Ship to the East-Indies.
Enquire at No. Ac Do k Street.
fel>-6. Atw
Ran away from the Subfcriler,
On the 24th January iaft,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is of a middling sized flature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried o£f a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her Up and'brinfs her tothe fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-street, corner of F'jllrth-iir®ct,
ihall receive two Collars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. WhoeTer harbor-, f id Girl alter this no
tice, lhall be profecmed to the fevtrity of the law.
February 10. , ' f, r
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the eliatc ai'.VILLIAM COMPTOAi. lat-
I of the city of Philadelphia, dectafed, are rcquff.
red to furnifh their accoußts, duly attested. nd
those who are indebted to said eIW, areearnaflly
solicited to make immediate payment, to either of
the fubferiters
Isaac Cathrall, ~l
Join Haworth, f. Adminiftratora,
Samuel Wilcox. J
January 27 W s 4 v
NOTICE. "
A LI. p.rfons indebted tothe efiite of Prrer Gtli
\ late of the Diliria of Sonthwark, deceased,
are requeued t make immediate paymentto ci-her
of the SnWcribers; and'thofe who have any de
mands against faidcllate, are rcquefled to brine in
their sc.ountsdnly attested, to
John Murphy, ")
Peter Scravenilyke, i u "
Thomas Farrell, J tort »
January 16. 'awaw/.w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornea of
Second and Chefnut flreets,
(Piitc 3'BM/ ttf a dollar)
Obfer vat ions on certain Dscuments
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United Statea for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge ol speculation ao-ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasbrv, it FUI LY
REFUTED,
WRITTEN ET HIMSELF.
This publication prefeius a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pratSifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afpurfe the characters of those
persons who are considered as hoftils their difor
gamzing schemes. It also contains the correfcon
dence between Mr. Hamilton ami Messrs. Monroe
Muhlenbtirg and Venable, on the fubjetf of the
documents aforcfaid, and a feriei of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilto-,
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, that tl»
c.nneilion between him and Reynolds was the re
lultof a daring coul piracy on the part qi the lat
ter and his alfociate» :o extort money.
<f r A difconnt of one tliird from the retail
pr.ee will be made in favor of wholesale purcha
sers, for cash. Order, to be addressed to Mr.
Yotr.vo
February
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
F»r D R r GOOD S.
r Porenoon—EdwarJ. Fox, No. ef,
) Afternoon—tootman & Co. N«. 6i
(_ South Front flreet.
r' Forenoon—John Connr tly, Oft! Citv
Tuefda } \ ,/ 1Uu *' on ' n fout'h Froru-fbett'.
J Afternoon-Wdliam Shannon, No
C 18.? High ftrect. ■
Weintfdaj J Af " r "° 0 "— Pf 'f r No. 74
J \ south Third-ftrcet.
Thurfdny 5 Fox.
( Afsrrnaon—John Ccnwlly
Friday \ Shannon.
V Afternnrm—John Coni»ellj-.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Srafc n.
[VsLVMJi XIII.NEW Trit 3 TRE.
THE M»a»gcs deem it tbcji t© info'm the
Public. *h»t he tntcMnnmrn i 6' the Theitrr are un
avoidably fn(p-nri f d 'till Mftid'y ncx', m conlequence
•f i|»r tfnfottunttf indi'pofiuon <sf Mr. Moxtiow,
the imuricMi* deftftion o( Mr foot** ( and the un
p*?rcd*nted. peicmyory refufal of Mr. Finnili
to ptifoim the ehaiiQer twite announced for him.<Of ,
the fi'-ft c ntlcman the Mangers millcwr fpetk i» ,
t.rros ot acknowledgment, approbation ant * f rie,, «*
ftito. for that uniform exertion in hi» ptoldSon
+ bich has at once advanced the intereils of V drama ,
and justly rendered him a favorite of i's patoni. On
M'-. 0«t>«' s condadt, thev esn make no r-mark « |
this lime, ««the vi«'atio» of his contrast is the fubj«t
of a fuis, now depending in theSunreme Coort: and
in relation to Mr. Frn»ei:, they are content, *t pref
eot, 10 r.hferve, that, independent,of the sood faith
whirk engiprments ought to infptre, the. liberali
ty that he has hjthe-teexptneitced fiom the managers,
s> well as from the public, had na ura!ly taifed an ex
peftatioa, that he wnnld not u»f»ra>efully have taken
td-antige of the e«tftinj#ate ofth- Theatre, either to
eicbarrals tne former, or to obftrutt the amulemenu of
(he Tatter •
The Managers, having thus refpci&folly rcpre
fenttd the re*l cause of the poftpenemeiat of
their Entertainments (an event equally unexpeft
ed and prejudicial) cannot avoid adverting to
the difficulty of executing, with universal appro
bation, so ardupas a talk as that which they have
undertaken j but they folemnlydeelare that in every
department of their duty towards the public, and
in all their trat fad ions with the performer, their
incefftnt effyrt-has been to give fatisfadion ; and
■ndrr this declaration they »nxioofly hops that they
fball experienop favor and
terpretation of their eo«du<S, and a spirit of mu
tual accommodation.
WKJNELL V REINAGLB.
February 10.
Proposals for Publishing
A n«w Commercial Work in the City of
Philadelphia, to be entitled
The Philadelphia Price-Current,
A N D
Nmutichl Recorder.
rb TH.S PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber having been erigag
ed in carrying on a publication in Boilon
under the title ef the " B'Jlon frit* Current, ar.d
Marine Intelligencer /' a work, for utility and ex
tent of circulation, equal perhaps to any publica
tion ef the kind in Europe or America, is now
induced to risque an attempt to publifti a flmilar
paper under the patronage of the citizens of Phi
ladelphia. He Brakes rhe attempt from a perlua
fion that a publication for general benefit, and re
tentive information, will receive as much support
from the liberal minds of the merchants and others
cf this city, as places of less opulence in th-Uni
ted States—and although little immediate bene6t
ftiould rcfuit to the citizens lrom such a publica
tion. yet it prevent idea abroad which
fotr.e have ioduftrioufly circulated, that the trade
of this extenfiv city was on the decline, and ccr
tratf ed into so narrow a sphere that it *ould not
support a Price Current.
1 he general anxiety that prevails in the com
mute ial world at this critical period, renders a
work of tjir Kind particularly ufeful a*d naceffiry
—Nor can the utility be doubted, when it is con
ildered how cxtcn/ive the trade and particularly
the infuranec are afFe&cd in'thlicjty.—A sarefu 1
pHpiication of the failing and arrival of.v«ffcl« in
different part* of the world—advice from veflels
ft*—accidents happening; in and out of port, —
are ever circnmftances that ought to be known by
the merchant and underwriter, and one kforma
tion ct thi6 Jsipd may save more than the coll of a
hundred paper# through liiV The Editor engag
es to use his utmost endeavors to mike it honora
ble and.profitable to himfelf, fenfiblc that it can
b« done only by making it acceptable to his patrons.
Thi* publication wilicontain, ageneral PriceCur
fenf ofallartides ofimpoitation&eiportation,with
the duties on irtiportntion, in this City,
and Boston—Foreign Price Currents, in general ;
to obtain which the various European publications
will be procured, particwUrly thtfe of London,"
ol, Bristol, Hamburgh, 6cc. —all arrivals
and clearinces in the principal ports In America,
and every article cf nautical information which
csn in any manner he ufeful or interefling to mer
chants in general ttwill likewise contain Prices
of Stacks in the different parts, of the United States,
eorre&ed by eminent Brokers—Custom hou£c im
portations— Law, Arrets and Decrees ot commer
cial tendency, &c. &c.
••nditions.
jft. To be printed <vith a new type, on goodpaper
of a large crown size, and contain 4 pages folio
id. It will be publifned twice a week, and deliv
ered to fubferibers in the city early on the morn
ings of publication, and forwarded to those out
of the city with the greatest expedition and care.
3d. The price will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one dollar on rhe delivery of the firli
number; one dollar at the expiration of three
months and th residue at the end of the year
4th. Subfcril ers for the work in any other place
than the city, to pay one half yeai* fubfeription
money.
sth. The work to begin as fooo as five hundred
fubferibers arc procured, of which notice will
be given.
Subfeription papers will be placed in the
various public offices, &c. aird lent in the course of
the week, to the citizens in general, for thair pat
ronage. JOSEPH N. RUSSELL.
PoVuary to. tuf&m.U
New To-k 'January 24> .*798-
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Froj ; *or of the Rfj»< njr Roo*i ;
For Publishing by Subfsription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
Br Madame Roland ;
Wife of ihe Miniifer of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These fearce ix,d very valuableHiftorical Mr
moirs, (which ran through two Lordor. edi
tion! in a few monthi,) will be comprifad i« »
vols. OiSlavo, of 4CC pag« each.
They will fce printed rn fine p»per and a new
type, and delivered to Subfcriters, neatly bound
ind lettered, at I dollar and jo eenta per vr.l
ume—-one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid rn delivery of the firft volume—the*rt
maindrr when tie work iscompleat.
To Trintera, Bookfellet?, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
Subfcriptiens are taken at the Ueading-
Room, No. 149, Water ftreef— the Printing
office, 14,, Pearl-fire»t —and at the different
Beoklioret in New-Y»rk - Also, by William
Young, corner < f Serorvd and Chefnyt flreet, nd
the Editor cftffe Ga«(le of the United States.
Philadelphia.
, As soon at a fufficient number of Sul lcriberi
are obtained, the work will be put to preft, ard
(otnpleated with the uttioft difpstch.
Feb. 10. eoflam
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FCR taVirg up a runaway fcrvant Girk named
Abigail Miller, latt- riy calling herfclf Dctfey
Smith, and fending her toNorth Front-ftrcet, No
>he is of a chonky make, and v»ry dark
complexion, with round features, and black bufny
hair; pr«bahly n.uch altered by pairt and pow
deri, as ihe is luppofed to }e fc creted in houses of
ill fame, though no more tijan fifteen years of age.
etbtmzry 19. co2w
CONGRESS. J
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 1
V
WEDNESDAY —FEBRUARY 21.
■ < Mr VtnV.li, from the committee to whom was
referred tht amendm nt> of tha tenate to tk< bill ,
appropriating a (uu> of mouey for holding a treaty '
with the !nd;'tnt, their title to land is I
the (late of Tenacffea ot North Carolina, nade a J
report, recommtsiding an agreement to all the a- 3
mendments, except oat, to which they recom
mended a dlfagrctmeat. The amendments agreed C
to related to Jlriking out the dates of Tcuacfiee
and North Carolina, leaving the diredien to eke
Pr fident of the Uaited States, in general terms to t
hold sack treaty or treaties with the Indians (with- (
eat mentioning any particular tribo) as he Ihall
think proper. The amcridaoent which the com
mittee recommended to be diifented from, was in '
the following words : v t
" Provided nothing contained, in this aft stall J
be conflrued to admit an oblipa'ion on the part of
the United States to extingailh for the benefit of
any Nate, or individual citixen, Indian claims to 1
any ljnds lying withia the ttrriUry of tha United *
States." !
This ameldniFHt produced a debate which lifted [
the greater part of the day. It was opposed
by Mifirs. W. Claibornr, Nicholas, Venable, 8. 1
Smi'h, R Williams M'Bowcll, Oallatia, and
Macoa, on the ground of its being a new thing to '
iatrodace such a clause iato a biM of this kiad ; I
that the bill was compete without it, and tkat to
agree to this amendment would amount to adeni J
al of the claim againd the United States of the pt
titieners from the state of Tenref-e and Otht rs,to *
an extinguilhmeut ef the Indian title to their lands,
wLich they were fitisfied was well founded, and a c
denial of which wruld be eqaally unjail aad im- (
politic ; that it would be bell to kt this qaeflion
remain untouched for the present, leaving it to
the President to afl it he (hall fee proper ; as if c
the petitioners and others had » cki r, the amend- 1
mcnt proposed eouldnot take it away ; it could
therefore, have no other cfifeil than a bad one, sit ,
might, an.l it was believed would be considered as a
declaration igiinfl all pcrfons who had claims cf :
this kind agsiinlt the Un'ted States ; that the per- '
sons who would be affeclcd by such a dedaraticn
were very numerous; that those who had been t
drivm from off their lands in the state of Tenacf a
fee, and who had in e »fe<iuence exi erienctri the ,
greatest difirefs, might he induced, fromadefpair
of redrrfs, to go over to the Spanish territory, or J
iufift upon holdidg their lands in dcfiaace of the
late treaty with the Cherokee Indians; that the t
former alteraitive was by do means defiralile, but
the latter might involve the Uaited States in a iVar
with ih, Indiaas.
This amendment of thethe Senate was advo- ?
cated by Mcffra. Sitgrcaves, N. Smith, Uaiper, f
Sewall, Gordon, Otis, and Dana, as nccefl'ary \
to eflablifh the principle upon which the law t
was paffrd. The bvifinefs originared, they flat-
td, upon a memorial froaa the inhabitants of
Ter#eiTee, « h<Te claims for rcdrefs agaiaft the
United States, had always been advocatei upon
the gtotiod of jufiice; whereas it was believed i
,hat the pre f cnt bill hafi been agreed to upon the
ground of policy, by the greiter part of t.' ofe 1
who vo'ed fnr it. It was Heceffary, therefore, (
to introduce a daufe of this kind, to ihew upon
w'l at ground the law did pass, otherwise it might
hereafter be infilled that the law was predicatad
upon a convidlion of the jufiiee of ike claims of J
'hefe aitizens upon the United States, which it
was prefumed,*"ne house were neither prepared
it prefcnt, to admit n r deny. They wjlhed '•
this queftiAn undecided, and denied that
his clause which was introduced for that pwr
pof*, could be condrued as a declaration agaiuft
tha right of t e claimants to' redrafs from the '
((overnaient of the United States. It was in- '
tended, and could only be so considered, as a 1
saving rlaiife against eonfequences which might i
be attempted to be drawn from the law, and .
whieh it was not intended to provide for.
The Yeas and Nays being called for upon the
■ ellion of concurring with the felafl commit- '
;ee i* their djfagreement to this amendment 1
from the Senate, thrv were 'aken at follow : '
r E A s.
Meflrs. Baldwin, Baird, Benton, Blount, i
Bryant, Burgess, Cabell, W. Claiborne,
Clay, Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, Elmen- i
dors, Findley. Fowler, N. Freeman, Gal- >
latin, Gillefpie, Grove, Harrifon, Havens,
Holmes, fonts, Livitigfton, Locke, Lyon,
Machir, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell,
Nicholas, I* Parker, Rvtt
kdge, Skinner, S. Smith, W. Smith,
Stanford, Sumpter, A. Trigg, J. Trigg,
Varnnm, Venable, R. Williams.—46.
NAYS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard,
Brookes, Buliock, Champlin, Chapman,
Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana, Dent, E
vans, A. Tofter, D. Foster, Glenn, Good
rich. Gordon, Gregg, Grifwold, Hanna,
Harp, r, Hartley, Heifter, Hindman, Hol
mer, Irniiy, Kittera, Lyman, Matthews,
Morrjs, Otis, Reed, Schureman, Sewall,
Shepard, Sinnicklon, Sitgreaven, N. Smith,
Sfiraguc, Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson,
Tillinghaft, Van Alen, Wadfwortb, J.
Williams.—4B.
The report of the feleft committee hay
ing been negatived, the question was now u
pon agreeing to the amendment itfelf.
Mr. Bayard moved to amend the amend
ment, by linking out the word territory and
inserting the words " limits of the United
States," which moiion was carried 47 to 41.
The question on the amendment was then
put and carried 47 to 46.
Mr. S. Smith called up for decision the
resolution which he laid upoa the table the
other day, for obtaining from the colleflors
of the fevtral ports of the United States a
statement of veflels captured or detained fcy
foreign ■ nations, belonging to the Uuitcd
States since the id July, 1795.
Mr. J. Williams doubted whether the col
lectors could give the information required.
Mr. S. Smith believed they could. The
Senate he said. had adopted a resolution of
a fimiiar purport with this, but he did not
think it fufficiently particular, which was
the reason of his introducing this.
Mr. Gordon did not fee any neceflity for
adupting this rtfolution, since the Senate
had already pafled one of a fimiiar tendency.
Mr. Thatcher was in favour of the re
solution ; butdidnetthink it went farenough
back.
Mr. J. William* moved to ftrikc out the
ift July, 1795, in order to '"krt "f">"the
ratif taticn of the Britijh Treaty."
Mr. S. Smith thought the ift July, 1795
a proper period ; but if the gentleman fram
' Maflachufetts would bring forward a propo
'f fition to have aftatement from the commerce
ment of the European war, he should not ob
jett to !{. Many attempts had heretofore
been obtain a correft lift sf .captures
but it had never been cJFcfted. The lalf fef- I
Con an imperfeft account was laid before the
house collefted from newspapers ; he belie
ved the ceurfe now proposed would produce
more fatisfaftian than had yet been «.btained
on this head.
Mr. Thatcher moved that the statement
should commence from the ill •of Oftober,
1792, when neutral vefTels were firft. ltopped
in the ports of England, a period which whs
a few months previous to the breaking ,out
of the war betwixt France and England.
Mr. S- Smith consented to this alteration
Mr. Harper moved to ftriTte out the ift
of Oftober 1792, for the purpose of inser
ting " from the ratification ef the Briti/h
treaty." He did not fee why the House
(hould a(k for a long- (lory of captures since
the year The iibjeft required wis* a
simple one, and lay within a much narrower
eoripaf-j. Tt was merely to obtain a come
parative ftatenient ofcapturesmadeby Franc
and England within a certain period. To
take the account so far back, would only
serve te ret-®i the enquiry, without being
of any real uft. •
The question was put on this amendment
and negatived, there being only *3 voted in
favor of it.
The question then recurred on the resolu
tion as amended by Mr. Thatcher's piopo
iition.
Mr. Allen moved to add, " and so
cause." He did not know that the propof
ed enquiry, could be of any other use than
to fatisfy curiosity ; but", if any part of it
could be of use, he thought it would be
well to have the cause of capture afiigned.
Mr. Otis hoped this amendment would
not obtain, as it would be very puzzling,
indeed, to know for what cause our vessels
had been despoiled and captured.
Mr. J. Williams said, if it were
to distinguish betwixt fa.r and illicit traders
amongst the captures, he should be glad;
but he feared this objeft could not be accom
plished.
Mr. Sitgreaves remarked, that thongh
the colleftors could not in all cases, give J'.n
answer to this enquiry, they might in some.
Indeed, be did not know that they tould
give the other information required, any
more than .this, as he knew no mode by
which they coyid get pofTeffion of it. If 1
they could not answer this enquiry, it would
be easy for them to fay so. He hoped,
therefore, it would be agreed to.
The motion was put and negatived, there
being only 26 votes in favour of is.
The question was then taken on the reso
lution, and carried, there being 58 votes in
favour of it. Adjourned. ■
—— 1 ■ ' MIWWMIW— *
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE.
House of Representatives.
February to. _
Mr. Leib presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of that part of the
Northern Liberties, lying between Vine
ftreet and Pegg's-run, and the river Dela
ware and Sixth street, prayißg to be incor
porated.
Also, one from the managers and trustees
of the school, near the Rifiug Sun tavern in
the Northern Liberties, praying the grant
of fix hundred dollars, to enable them to
complete the house for the accommodation
of the said institution.
Mr. Everly presented a petitionfrom Hen
ry Frayly, ftatiag that there are balances
due him from the counties of Lancaster,
Berks, Northampton and Montgomery, for
drums, fifes and colours, furnifhed the mil
itia of said counfies, and praying relief.
The committee to whom was referred the
petitions relative to the poor of Delaware
county, reported in favour of the petition
ers.
A report in favour of the petition of Ed
mund Milne, was read, and ordered to lie
on the table.
A report upon the petition of a number
of the inhabitants of York county, praying
for a division of the fame; in favour thereof
was read, and ordered to lie on the table.
The bill for railing by lattery a sum to
defray the expences of erefting a fchool
houfe in the Township of New-Hanover, in
the connty of Montgomery, was considered
by paragraphs, and ordered for a third r«a
ding.
The bill entitled, " An aft extending the
powers of the Judges of the Supreme court
of common Pleas,"' was considered and or
dered* for a third reading. Adjourned.
February 12.
Mr. Sterret prefentcd a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of Mifflin county
praying pecusiary aid to Dickenfon college,
which was read, and ordered to lie on the
table. •
Mr. W. Maclay presented a petition
from a number of the inhabitants of Dau
phin county, of a similar tenor to the above
mentioned petition, which was read, and
ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Bonnett presented a petition from
a number of the inhabitants of Bedford
county, of a similar tenor to the last men
tioned petition, which was read, and order
ed to lie on the table.
Mr. Leib presented a petition from John
Bioren and Patrick Madan, accompanied
with a cofiy of their proposals for printing
the laws of this commonwealth, and praying
that a number of copies of the said work be
fubferibed to for the use o£.the state, which
was read.
1 Mr. Kelly presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of the common
wealth, stating that the aft to declare and
regulate efcheata, is defeftive, and praying
that a supplement may be pasTed to remedy
the said defefts, which was read.
1 Mr. Wain presented a petition from a
- number of the citizens of Philadelphia,
- praying that the law would be made more
- efifeftual for the prevention of vice and im
e morality* which was read and referred to
the members of the city, with inftruftions
to report by bill or otherwise.
Mr. Preston prefentcd a petition from s
Philip Thomas, Hating thnt he 1
and proceeded to improve a traftof land on <
Conewago Creek in Allegheny county, but
before he had completed the said improve- i
ment according to law, liis good intentions I
were arretted by the lpfs of his fight, -which
he fears will endanger his legal claim to the i
said land, and therefore prays relief, which
was r<ad.
The committee to whom was referred the
bill, entitled "An aft to enable the G«»vcr- '
nor of this commonwealth to incorporate a '
company for making an artificial road from 1
}het;ity of Philadelphii through German- <
town by the of Chcfnut-Hill to the 1
twelve-mile ftoiTC on the Reading road, and
thence to Reading, is the county cf Berks." '
reported a bill of a similar title, which was i
ruad the firft time.
The committee to whom was referred, the
9th inft. the petition of Benjamin Kerr,
praying leave to ereft a mill-dam in the Al
legheny river, made report in favour of the
petitioner.
The committee to whom.was referred, Ja
nuary 15th inft. the report of the commit
tee on the petition of Matthias Pinyard,. ta
ken from the files of the late house, report
ed a bill, entitled " A supplement to the
aft establishing an explicit fee bill," which
waj read the firft time.
Mr. Sterrett read in his place, a bill, en
titled " An aft to establish a ferry over the
Juniata river, opposite Mifflir.burgh, in the
counfy of Mifflin, and veiling the right in
James Taylor ar.d James Sanderfo.i their
heirs and assigns," which was read the firft
time.
Ordered, That Monday next be assigned
for the second reading of the bill, entitled
" An aft to regulate the general eleftions
'within this commonwealhs," and that it be |
the order for that day.
The bill entitled •' An aft for railing by
way of lottery a sum not exceeding five hun
dred doflars to be applied to, the defraying
the expences of treftiurj a school house iu
the township of New Hanover, in the coun
ty of Montgomery," was read the third
time and agreed to.
The bfll entitled " An aft to grant a sum
of money to the trustees of thr academy i
and free school of Bucks county," was read
the third time, and agreed to.
The bill entitled " An aft to enable the
owners and pofleffors of Bristol-Island mea
dows, in the township of Brrflol and coun
ty of Bu.ks, to keep the banks, dams,
sluices and flood-gates in repair, and to raise
a fund to defray the expences thereof," was
agreed to-
The bill entitled " An a<3 extending the
powers of the judges of the fupfrcme court
and common pleas," was read the third time
and patted with amendments.
The house resumed the consideration of
the report of the committee, to whom was
referred the petition of a number of the in
habitants of Northampton county, praying
for a division of the said county, postponed
January 30th last. And the resolution there
in contained was adopted-
Ordered, That the committee who bro't
in the report, be a committee for the pur
pose exprefled in the said resolution.
Adjourned-
February 13.
Mr. Watson presented a petition from a
number ef the inhabitants of Bucks county
praying that the law for the prevention of
vice and immorality, may be made more ef
feftnnl. Referred to a fpeeial committee of
five members.
Mr. S. Maclay presented petitions from a
number of the inhabitants of this Hate,
praying fur the removal of the feat of go
vernment. Laid on the table.
The petition frorn-a number of the inhab
itants of Berks county, praying pecuniary
aid to remove the ebftruftions to the naviga
tion of the rivtr Schuylkill, was read a se
cond time, and referred to a fpeeial com
mittee, to report thereon.
Mr. Philfon presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of the townJhip
of Londonderry, in Bedford county, piay
ing that the said township may be annexed
to the county of Somerset. Referred to
the members from the counties of Bedford
aod Somerset.
Tfie committee on the petition of a num
ber of the inhabitants of Philadelphia, pray
ing that the pra&ice of usury may be reg
ulated, reported a bill, entitled " an aft for
the prevention of usury," whiah was made
the order jef the day for Wedncfday the 2jft
inft.
An aft for the incorporation of the con
gregation of the protestant episcopal church
of St. John, ki YVeft-Ci»J'o in the county
ef Chester, was reported, read and made
the order of the day for Saturday next.
Mr. Evans moved that a committee be
appointed to join a committee of the senate
to infpeft thj general accounts of the bank
of Pennfvlvania, in order to ascertain the a -
msuit of it's capital stock, of the debts
due, of the money deposited, of the notes
in circulation, and the cash in hand, and re
port-generally. Laid on the table.
The report on the petition of Edmund
Milne, \Vas read a second time, and the re-1
solution therein contained adopted.
Ordered that the committee who brought
in the report be a committee for the pur
pose exprefTed in the said resolution.
The bill for'incorporating the society for
the relief of distressed pilots, &c. was a
dopted, together with the' amendments made
: thereto by the Senate.
The bill for defraYJ n g the expance of sur
veying five trafts of land granted to Corn
planter, a chief of the Seneca nation, to
gether with the amendment of the Senate,
was concurred in.
1 The ccmm ttee of the whole reported
, progress in the bill for repairing and main
taining the public reads, and begged leave
to lit again, which, was refufed.
1 Adjoursed.
February 14.
Mr. Hendricks presented a pciii'uri fro»
a number of the inhabitants of Wtftmorr
land county, praying pecuniary aid to Dick
enfon college. Laid on the table.
Mr. Key» prtfented a prtition from the
inhabitants of Donegal and Mountjoy town
fliips, in the county of Lancaster, praying
an alteration in of holding their
elcftions. Referred to the members from
L?ncafter county.
Mr. Morn presented a petifion from tht
President, managers and company, far the
erefti«n of a bridge over the Delaware, at,
the borough of Eafton, praying for leave
to raise the sum of 12,500 dollars by way
of lottery, for the completion of the said
bridge. Referred to a fptcial committee.
The committee appointed, reported a bill
to amtnd and perpetuate the aft for extend
ing th» powers of the justices of the peace
within this ftatt, which was laid on the ta
ble.
A bilfwas reported aiithorifing th» clerks
of the refpeftive markets in the Northern
Liberties, to regulate the weights, &c. and
afligned for Saturday, the 24th inft.
Two bills were received from the senate.
The committee appointed on the petition
of John Bioren and Patrick Madnn, pray
ing the patronage of the state to an iptend*
ed edition of the laws of Pennsylvania, re
ported a resolution to appoint a committee
to bring in a bill conformable to the prayer
of the petitioners.
The committee on the Petition of Eliza
beth Rankin, reported in favour of the pe
titioner.
The committee appointed for the purpose
reported a bill granting a sum of money to
the truflees of Difckenfon colh ge.
The committee appointed to take into
confederation that pait of the governor's
addiefs which refpefts the Wyoming con
troversy, made report, recommending the
appointment of commiflioners to repair to
the county of Luzerne, in order to view and
determine the refpeftive claims therein.—
Made the order of the day for Wrdnefday
neyt.
Mr. Lieb moved, that a committee be
appointed to enquire into the propriety of
repealing the law against lotteries.—Laid on
the table.
Other bills, as reported by refpeftive
committees, were disposed of, and the
house. Adjourned.
The following petition is now before the
Legiflatuie of this Comro o"nwealth.
To the Senate and House of Reprrfentativej
of'the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in
General AJfcmbly.
The Memorial and Petition of sundry in
habitants of the borough and county o£
Lancaster,
Respecttullt Shew:
THAT your memorialists deem it; not
only expedient for the interests of this com*
pnonwealth, but ftriftly roafonable' that a
participation in the advantages refnlting
from the exportation of the products* of this
state to foreign countries, should not be fa
cilitated to the inhabitants of another state,
to the matiifeft injury of. our own export
trade; and, more efpeeially, whilst the le
gislature of such other state, declines to
concur with that of Pennsylvania, in open
ing the long contemplated canamunicatipn
between th« navigable waters of both Hates.
That, although this populous and fertile
state poflefies only one sea-port town, the
waters of the river Sufquehanna pursue a
course of many hundred miles through the
heart of the country ; and, by itsinterlock
ings with other boatable waters, as well as
by means of the turnpike road froqi tie bo
rough of Lancaster to Philadelphia, the
communication between the interior country
and that capital seaport is rendered cafy and
commodious.
That the town of Columbia, at Wright's
Ferry, on Sufquehanna, will, by,its favor
able position (independently of other town#
above it, on the fame waters) become a
very convenient mart and place of depot, for
the river trade, tending to the mutual ben
efit of the agricultural and commercial in
ter eft s of Pennsylvania in general.
That, with an obvious reference to those
important interests, the Legislature of Pent
fylvania, by au aft passed the 9th of Mareh
1771, declared the river Sufquehanna, "Jts
far down as IVrigbt's Ferry," to be a pufe
lia stream and highway, for the purposes «f
navigation up and down the fame, and the
measures since carried into effeft, nndtr the
fanftion of the Legislature, for improving
the navigation of that river, above thV town
of Columbia, have greatly contributed to
facilitate an intercourse cf trade between the
northern and western parts of the state an!
the port of Philadelphia.
That your memorialists conceive the gen
eral prosperity of Pennsylvania, lefpefting
not only its foreign trade, but its agriculture
and manufa&ures, to be in a very considera
ble degree dependent on the promoting fucli
a reciprocity of these several iuterefts among
its citizens, as may yield to the state the
greatest advantages which can be derived
from an union of those refonrces. Unde*
this imprelfion, your memorialists liave no<
ticed with concern, meafiwes pursued by
pcrlorts not acting under any public authori
ty of this state, for clearing the channel of
the Sufquehanna, between Columbia and
that part of the riter which it interfeftcd by
• the southern boundary line of this state.—<■
• The avowed defigti of these •pefatioas( whicll
your memorialists nndcrftand are intended to
be pcrfilled in) is to render the city of Bat
■ timore the mart for the products of a great
portion of Pennsylvania; and for fupplyiug
. in return foreign merchandize for the ea»-
, fumptiun of its inhabitants:—And the ob
vious tendency of an intercourse of that ra
-1 ture and extent, with another fate, without
- it's government interchanging similar bene
t fits with this commonwealth, as,it has the
power of doing, is to permit that other state
to erjcy an undue advantage overtur o"wn,whilst we pilTsrfs the right «f withholding j br
fueh permiflion. J to
Viewing, therefore, theenjirymentof these , fu
Mitrequited advantages, by the inhabitints jcc
of the state of Maryland, as operating to dc
the manifeft injury of the general intereth i
of this state; and coufidering the Legifla- ti:
ture of Pennsylvania, ,as the to
guardians of its welfare, your petitioners to
most refjie&fujly prav, that your honorable tii
body, will pass a taw to prohibit any person , a
or persons, m*t legally authorized by this j
state, from removing any obftriiflion to the I pi
navigation of the river Sufquehanna, be- of
tween the town ef Columbia aforefaid, and le<
the Southerh boundary line of this state. p;
And your petitioners will ever-pray, &c. or
jMW—th
X?)e <£a3ette. 2
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY" J
To the tie Son of the city of Philadelphia. A
At a meeting of the Judges and Irifpec
tors ®f the Election for the city of Phila
delphia, at the Mayor's Office, on the 19th of
it was determined, to open the eltc- M
tion which is to beheld in the said city on so
the 22d instant, for the choice of a Senator cc
prccifcly at 10 o'clock in the morning.— w
For the information as well of the Judges p,
and lafpe&ors of Eledtors, the Attorney-
General has on application of the Judges
and Infpedlors communicated the following
Questions as proper to be asked of persons
of whose right of voting the Infpe&ors A
should entertain doubts : viz—
" First, Are you a native of th« (late of
Pennsylvania, or of any other of the Unit
ed Statei, and havg you ever sworn allegi
ance to any *uretgn power, State, or Sove
reignty ? t ]
'• Second, have you taken an oath or as v
firmat;ion of allegiance to the state of Penn- t j
fylvana, or any other of the United States
and thereby became a citizen previous to o
the 26th of March, 1790, or have you been n
naturalized according to the a£ts of Con
grrfs ? . . . 11
« Third, Have yoit resided within this-
state two years next before this eleftion, and
have you within that time paid a state or
county tax ?
JARED INGERSOLL."
By order i»f the Judges and infprftors, a
[ afort'faid, r
HILLRY BAKER, v
one of the Judges. e
At a meeting of the citizens of Walnut
ward at the house of WilliaavM. Smith, on
Wcdnefday the 21ft February, 1798.
Resolved.—that from the hig'x sens* this
meeting entertain of the charadter and tal
ents of Benjamin R. Morgan; and from the
signal proofs he has given of his strong at
tachment to the constitution, government,
and laws of the United States, and of this
state ; also from his known zeal and ability
-10 defend us from the attacks of open, and
th* machinations of concealed enemies.—this
meeting pledge themselves to support him at
the ensuing eleftion-of Senator for this dif
tri<3, and do recommend him to their fellow 1
citizens accordingly. :
ISRAEL MORRIS, Chairmaß. '
JOHN SITGREAVES, Sec. 1
At a meeting of a numerous and refpeflable 1
number of citizens of the Northern Lib
erties and City, on the 21ft inft. at Mr.
Ogden's tavern, it was unanimously
Resolved, That as friends to law govern
ment, and remembering the patriotic and
ufeful services of Benjamin R. Morgan, in
the cabinet and in the field, when insurrec
tion threatened the exiftenc of our govern
ment, we will to the bed of our efforts sup
port him at the ensuing eleftion for Sena
tor.—And
Resolved, That the committee of the
Senate who so patiently inveftijated, and
so jtiflly and unanimously decided upon the
late contested elefiion of Jfrael Israel, de
serve our thanks for their independent and
impartial conduct.
ABRAHAM DUFFIELD, Chairman.
JAMES SWAIN, Secretary.
At a numerous meeting of refpe£table citi
zens, at the house of Mr. Clay, in the
lownfl-'ip of Moyaroenfing.Feb. 31,1798.
Alexander Clay, Chairman.
Samuel Stevens, Secretary.
It was unanimously resolved to support
Benjamin R. Morgan, at the ensuing ?lec
tion for Senator.
At a refpe&able meeting of the eleftors
of the townships of Lower Dublin, Bylmry
and Moreland, convened by public notice
at the house of John Segar, Innkeeper in
Buftleton, on Tuelday the 20th of Feb.
for the purpose of nominating a suitable
person to be run as Senator at the ensuing
elettion on the 22nd inft.
Jonathan Scholfield Efq
in the Chair.
Reviewing with deep regret the injury we
as citizens sustained by the number of ille
gal votes taken at the last general eleftion,
which, with the difperfionof many of the
good citizens, who were prevented from
voting by diforder then raging
in Philadelphia, we believe to have been the
cause of that truly patriotic citizen Benjamin
R. Morgan not bring re-ele&ed a Senator,
and as our gratitude for his pad services and
confidence in his difpefition to promote our
iutereft in the Legislature in future is not
leflened thereby, therefore, resolved unani
mously that we will support the said Benja
min R! Morgan with our votes at the ensu
ing election on Thursday next the 22nd inft.
Jonathan Scholfiild chairman.
John M'Clellan, Sec'y.
At a meeting of a number of refpeclab'e
citizens of the Diftrift of the Northern Li
berties of the city of Philadelphia, at the
house of oarniiei Cans, ou the IcthofFe-
bruary, 1798, it was utianimaufly agreed j .
to support Bfnjsrm'n R. Morgan, at the en- ck
suing cleft ion, as Senator for the diftrift, arj
compofcd of the city and county of Rhila- th«
dclphia and county of Delaware, for
And whereas, at a meeting of certain ci- St:
tizens of the Northern Liberties, at the
town house, on the 17th inft. the preamble Be
to their resolution sets forth that the vaca- ] le ]
tion of the feat of the said Israel Israel, ii
a poftration of the rights'of the citizens-}
" Resolved, That it is the unanimous o
pinion of this meeting, that the committee
of the Senate, who tried the Contested E- So
leftion of the said Ifraei Israel, for their im- a t
partial and judicious conduft on that occafi- Sh
on, receive the thanks ef this meeting for un:
their just and prompt decision, and that a
ny attempts to vilify their proceedings, are
derogatory to the American charaftcr, and
a real prostration of the rights of the citi
zens. £ rc
SAMUEL WHEELER, Chairman. a '
John Taylor, Scc'ry. ' £
At ameetingofa numberof rcfpe&able citi- p'
zensof Dock ward,atthehoufe ofP. Evans,
Resolved, That it is the unanimous sense
of this meeting, to support Benjamin R.
Morgan at the ensuing Eleftion, as Ser.ator
for the Diftrift of Philadelphia city and
county and the county of Delaware and that
we will use our best endeavours to prefcrve .
peace and good order at said Elefliot). .
JOSEPH LOWNES, Chairman.
Sith Willis, Scc'ry.
Philadelphia, Feb. 20.
ert
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of at
Philadelphia, at the house of William
Pen nock, in South Mulherry ward, on an
Twefday evening, February 20th, 1798,
John Rugan in the chr.ir. 1 tnl
The meeting aking into confederation m .'
the invaluable right of fuffrage in a free go
vvrnment, and being deeply imprefled with
theindecent aad groundlefsreflections, which
■ have appeared in leveral of the daily papers 118
of this city, against the decision .;f Hie com- I
mitteeof the Senate of this state. who were j
chosen for the purpose of trying theconlli
tutionality of the late eleftion oflfrael Israel i
it was
Unanimonfly resolved, That highly ap- !
proving of the principles which confine the ,
right of fuffrage to citizens by birth and by
adoption, as secured by the Conditution,
and confirmed by the determination of the
said Committee, we will each and every of
us use the utmost of our influence and legal °'
exertions to support Benjamin R. Morgan
at the ensuing election for Senator, in con-
federation of his long and tried services in
public life, and the faithful and honorable
difchargeof the several duties With which
he has been entrusted. P (
JOHN RUGAN, Chairman.
Jonathan Jones, Sec fy.
te
At a meeting of a large number of citizens
at the house of John Dunwoody,on MOll-
day evening, 19th February, Mr. An-
drew Tybout in the Chair, Jacob l '
Chryftler, Secretary. r<
Resolved Unanimoujly, That from our j
knowledge of the integrity, patriotism, and
abilities of Benjamin R. Morgan, we will |.
use the utmost of our endeavours to support q
him at the ensuing eleftion for Senator of f (
the Diftrift, composed of the city and coun- a
ty of Philadelphia and the county of Dela- c
ware.
ANDREW TYBOUT, Chairman. *1
Jacob Chrystle*, Secretary. j
At a meeting of a number of the citizens at r
the house of Mr. Phillip Timmons, on c
Monday, 19th Eebruary 1798, James I
Crawford, Esq. in the chaii*, and Hugh I
Holmes, Secretary, a
It was unanimously resolved to support the I
Eleftion of Benjamin R. Morgan, on Thurf
j day next.
I JAMES CRAWFORD, Chairman. \
Hugh Holmes, Secretary.
At a merring of a number of the citizens ;
DThvand its vicinity, at the house of e
Mr. Simuel Ash, on Monday the 19th
instant,
It was unanimously resolved to support
: Benjamin R. Morgan at the ensuing elefti- '
. on as Senator for the Diftrift, composed of j
the city and county of Philadelphia and the
county of Delaware ; and that the citizens
t attending the meeting will individually give
> him all the support in their power.
HUGH LOYD, Chairman.
Nathaniel Newlin, Secretary.
s
J
1 At a very large and refpeftable meeting
e of the merchants, mechanics and other e
n leftors of the city and county of Philadel
'• phia at the city tavern on the 17th Februa
e
1 GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman,
THOMAS ROSS, Secretary,
It was unanimously resolved, " That the
citizens composing this meeting, will, to
the utVnofl of their power, exert themselves
t individually to promote the eleftion of
c ' Benjamin R. Morgan as senator for this dif
m trift; and they do pledge themselves to
w come forward with their votes and interest
* in his behalf on the day of the said eleftion,
■ and recommend him to their fellow citizens,
as a proper character for the said office.
1( j GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman,
Thomas Ross, Secretary.
3t ,
At a meeting of a number of the inhab
-2 itants of Delaware county, at the house of
t William Anderfon, in the borough of Chef
ij ter, February 17th, 1798,
It was nefolved, with onlv*.one difTenting
voice, to support Benjamin R. Morgan at
the ensuing eleftion, for a senator for the
!e diftrift eompofed of the city and county of
,i- Philadelphia, and the county of Delaware.
Ie ELISHA PRICE, Chairman,
e- Wm. Mart is, Secretary.
j .At a meeting of a refpe&able number of
citizens, held on Saturday evening, Febru
ary 17th, at St. Mary's school house, for qt
th» purpose of consulting cn a proper per- le;
j son to reprefsnt them in the Senate of this (li
! State, John Leamy in the chair,
It was resolved unanimouflv to fnpport
Benjamin R. Morgan, at the Eleftion to be 11
held on Thursday next, the 22d iwft.
JOHN LEAMY, Chairman. >' c
Attest, EdwardCarr3ll, Sec'ry. 11
at
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Southwark, and ol Moyameufiug, n
at the houie of Mr v James Cameron, in t0
Shippen street, the fullawiag resolution was VA
unanimously adopted. .
Resolved, that this meeting taking into yo
consideration the virtues, talents, and patri
otifni of Benjamin R. Morgan, do a
gree to support him individually as Senator
at the ensuing eleftion, being fully corurinc
ed that he will use his utmost exertions to t |,
support the laws and constitution of the U
nited States, as well aj of the State of t j,
Pennsylvania. or
yOSEPH BIRD, chairman ot
Clement Humphreys junr. Sec'y. 2 ,
February 16th 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the Citizens
of she Diflrifl of Southwark, and town- g
(liip of Moyamenfing, at the taverp of Capt.
John Rice, Mr. Joftuaa Humphreys in the j,
chair ; r
Resolved, That we will use our utmost cx o;
ertions to support Benjamin R.Morgan, ci
at the ensuing elcftion «f Senator to repre- tl
sent the city ind county of Philadelphia, S
and county of Delaware ; being convinced
that at this time, peculiarly important, and a
I interfiling to all the allocates of the ad- c
miniitratiou of the government of the U- 1«
nited S fares, to support those who are known
to be ft lends of order and good govern
ment, is a nieafure which our duty compels
us to adopt. , r;
y<ffl:ua Humphreys, Chairman. "
. Peter ierihen, Sec'ry. e
| 14th Feb. 1798- *
I /!t a meeting of a number of the Citizens of the a
city and county if Philadelphia, at Ogden's p
Tavern, on Tutfday, 13th February, 1798, 0
it was unanimously resolved.
To support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at the ensuing Ele&ion, as Senator for the
: Diltrift, composed of the city and connty [
I of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware. f
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman. c
,M. Keppele, Secretary. £
TO THE PUBLIC. . \
t A Publication has this day-made its ap- j
pearance calculated to deceive you. It is t
signed by Hugh Fergufon, jun. Merchant, (
Michael Bright and others, and dates the ]
testimony of Mr. Strawbridge and Mr. '<
White, not as delivered to the chief Jtiftice. '
These gentlemen did not fay that no such j
declara ion was made by Mr. Israel, but
3 that they eitherdid tfouhcar it, or did not ,
recolletft it. If Mr. Hendtrfon's Testimo
ny had not fatisfied the mind of the-Chief
r Tuftice, as to the seditious intentions of
Mr. Israel, why did he bind him over to
" keep the peace and be of good behaviour.
1 The fail as proved was, that Mr. Hender
f son heard Mr. Israel declare his sentiments,
and the others were not aliending to the
convtrfation. TRUTH.
For the Gazette of the United States.
A writer who affiimedjthe name of Fe
lt ritas, in Baehe's paper of the 19th inft. ac
n cufed the (igners of the circular letter of
•s 13th February, in favor of Mr...Benjamin
h R.Morgan, of a deliberate untruth. You
: are desired to retort the charge upon Veri
tas, and to publish the declaration of Mr.
j. Matthias Barton, Chairman of that respec
table and impartial committee of the senate,
which, as we declared in our circular, U
NANIMOUSI.Y determined that the e
leftion of Israel Israel was illegal, and there
by restored to the citizens the violated right
' of fuffrage.
h Names of the Committee v
> Joseph Cowperthwait—Anthony Morris
—Daniel Smith—John Wall—PeterMiertk
r.C en —Joshua Humphreys—Joseph Thomas—
'p Joseph Ball—Samuel Wheeler—R. Hill
1 Morris—John Rugan—Wm. Sheaff-—Levi
1C Hollingfworth—John Vaugba* George
Bringhurft.
To Mejfrs. Levi Hollingfworth, Daniel
Smith, &c.
OENTLIMEV,
1 g In compliance with your request to be in
e. formed " whether the. committee were a
el. nanimous in their report o* the contested e- 1
ia . lection of Mr, Israel?" 1> do sot hefita-te to
fay they were. A day or two before the
, t committee had reduced their report into
form, a ftparate question was taken on the
fevtral articles contained in the fj*cifieati»n
c of the petitioners and up«n each of them,
to the committee was unanimous. Immediate
ly before the chairman had by order of the
° committee, signed the report, one of the
members exprefTed a doult, as to a puint
which he had not fully examined—he wa<
c told by the committee, that if he wished
>n ' further time to fatisfy his mind, he (hould
ns ' be indulged, and that the report would be
pbftponed for one, two or more days if ne
*» cefiary, as it was the general wilh that the
unanimity which bad hitherto prevailed in
the committee (hould contime. He obfer
-3 " ved, that as all the other members were fat
-0 isfied as to the fail upoh which he had
. doubted, he did not wilh foranydtlay, war
latisficd, and the report of the 'committee
ing was agreed to, and ordered to be signed,
at without any diflenting voice,
the I am with refpedl,
of Gentlemen,
ire. Your humble servant,
MATTHIAS BARTON.
Philadelphia, Feb. 2ijt, 1798.
Estmre of Covnhrfeht ! I J!
The friends nf/Benj. R. Morgan nrr re- J
quefled to examine ihtlr tickerr, left by
leaving out the R. or putting another Chri- ui
ftian name, the vote maybe rendered null, fci
fl(
The Constitution of this (late confines a
the right of voting to Citizens who are 21 ari
years of age or more, and have relided two th
years or more within the state, and within th
lhat time paid a state or county tax, alfeffed N
at least fix months before the Ekftion, and ti<
the fonsof persons qualified as alorcfaid bet- pt
ween 21 and 22 years of age, are entitled ca
to vote, ;.lthough they (hall jjot have paid •
taxes.
All parties agree in this, that a person B
who is uot a Citizen cannot be entitled to
vote.
Who then are Citizens ?
All persons born within the limits of the
United States, or fettled thereiu, on the 4th ■tc
day of July, 1776, er within the state o;i ec
the aßth September, 1776. jA
All persons who arriving after the above
time, have taken according to law, an oath m
or affirmation of allegiance to-this, or some
other of the United States, on or before the b<
25th of March, 1790. e«
All persons arriving mi or before.the 29th ei
January 1795 who have been naturalized
conformably to the Laws of the United P
States. ' S
The children of perfofts duly naturalized ec
dwelling within the United States, and be
ing uud*r the £geof 21 years, at the .time ai
of such naturalization and the children of c;
citizens of the United States born out of b<
the limits and |Jurifdrdion of the United a
States. o
No foreigner ft ho arrived in th 13 country
after the 29th day of January 1795 can be a
corae a citizen until after a rtfidence of at c
luall five years. * I
READ THIS! I
The constitution of the United States is the
rallying point of all true fiiendsto their ceun- t ,
try in every political emergency. The pending a
.election 18 one of those interesting occafioris on r
which they (hould dilplaytheir<.ttachrr.fi,ttoih s
palladium of th<.ir rights, The cciit'ft involves 11
all that is dear to us as independent citizens of n
a free government. j\Jo-gan and Israel are
placed on different grounds,l'othatthecandidates c
out (if view, personally eonCdered, the contest is <]
for principles, which are, and ought forever t«
be dear to us. j-
Loolc at the two descriptions of persons op- c
posed to each ether. The supporters of iienj. •
K. Morgan are the supporters of the laws, the ,
friends of order and peace, the prop of the trade,
commerce and mechanical arts of this great *
emporium «f the Union They are the sober, 1
discreet, l'tibftantial heufe-keepers, the indwftri
ous, thriving citizens who poflc-fs property, or
hope, under the protection of the laws to acquire
it. They are the fathers of families, who love i
the country in which they were born, and who 1
exult in the profytil of handing down to their 1
pofteritv that independence, those laws, rights i
and privileges for which they fought, Wed and
conquered. Thefeare the friends of Benj. v R. 1
Morgan. Of !uch men every country (bould
be proud, they ate its bulwark, and the prop of
its existence. On the other hand, who ar
those who advocate the election or bis competi
tor. Wi:h few exceptions, ihcy are men who
liate the •institution, and th*" civil and moraj
principles which form the balls of osr indepen
dence and fecut ity —They revile the heroes who '
tffeiVed the salvation of our country in the con
test for all that is dear and sacred to freemen— '
they take} artwith thefoieign and dotileltic ene
mus of the United Stales —they reprobate the
admin-iflration »f the government, and encou
rage our foreign foes in their depredations on
oi.r commerce, i'hey anticipate the t.me when
the barriers of public and private faith (hall be
bioken down, when all cooi'iclauce (hall be de
llroyed, and the' floods of iceritiaufnefs ftiall
Iweep away all thpfe principles that give peace
and feebrity in life, or hope in the hour of dilT
olution —Are such men the friend* of their fel
-1 low-men—are they the friends of the pour of
1 the mechanics, of the inituftrious honest eiti
- zens—are they the friends to the rights of per
son and property —are they tbe friends to pri
vate individual happnufs, or the g-sfienl praf
perity of this country, this commonwealth, t»r
' uKthis city ! Alas, all our experience fays no.
" Shail we then fuffer ourselves to be out voted
" hy them—forbid it, the guardian genius of U
• sited America,
t
To Hiew how impo(Ti>ie it is f«r > democrat to
be ratiotiftj, 011 any fiihjjJt, fecms to be a fatality
invariably attendant 011 the efforts of citizen Bache.
5 His notions about neutrally, are as cru.le anj
. preposterous as Lis conceptions of liberty, equality
aud republicanism. In trmth it is hi.- occupation
to pervert and obfeutate ; and it it is not more ej
'! that he thould confound neutrality
1 with imbecility and cowardice, than tint he
e lkould imagine every qaaliScatijn of a legillitor
to be iacluJed ia the word Ktpublicau—tiut h<
Ch uild confound liberty with turbulence nnd asar
chy —and tbac he fiiould nxped. to make hit cobi
" furt or his happiurfs comport with a career of im
pudencs, laifhood, and blalffccmy.
Departed thii live, about 9 o'clock thia
.. morning, Mrs. Elizabeth Andrews, the a
a miablr consort of the Rev. Dr. Andrews,
e Vice Provost of the University of Pcnnfyl-
Q vania.
Ie The connexions and numeroui friendt ef
n the deceased will drnpa sympathizing tear to
n her memory, and unite in condoling with
,' her bereaved, hulband and children in their
ie irreparable loss. .
)e Mr». Andrews was beloved and refpeft.
Ed ; a (Tailed by repeated afflictions, with a
a , resignation, charafteriftick of the pious
>( j ehriftian, (he endeavoured in the language
of scripture to "Bl still." rfer health
je has been on the decline ever since the melan
e_ choly event of the death of her youngest son
1( by fire, in the month of November, 1796.
• n The writer of this tribute due to real me
r_ rit can tcftify her acknowledged rel'ance on
t _ tha: Being, to whom for relief in the hour.
]( j of distress, (he was accustomed to look up.
as In discharging the fevcral relative, social
ce and domestic duties of life, this worthy la
j [ dy had but few equals.
" Safe is (he lodged above tkefc railing spheres;
The baleful influence of whole gicdy Uanea
Sheds fad vuiSitudeson all beneath."
■ 1 »'
* # * The EaJl«rn Mail had not arrived
when this Pape* went to press.
I " NEW-V<SVk, Ftbrm;y 19.
A refpe£Salile French g-entlc m?T itvfv.r - j
tisthat advices are received .it'PbflaiWjii.' 1
by a young gei'itlemn.» from Iv'a father, a 1-.
fident at Guadalonpe, acquaint "n,> hits v i h
a second ibfurre&ion having broke out lite
and that a severe ronteft had enftied betvee »
the whites and negroes, in which 90a .1 .
the latter and 200 of the former were killed.
No partictftars were mentioned. This ar
ticle was received by letter from Philade'-
phia, and our informant thinks it merits full
confidence.
-
Baltimore, February 19,
By captain Wilson, 30 days from jacque
me', we have received the fo'lowiiig lift
of vetTels, captured and lately condemned
by the French.
Brig Eliza, Harrington, of and bound
Philadelphia, frsm Amsterdam, captnr
: ed in lat. 36, long. 70, and carried into
j Anguilla bay November 2 c.
—Veflel and cargo condemned at St. Do* *
mingo.
Ship Ellice, captain Harvey, of ard
bound to New-York, from London, carri
ed in fame day. Veflel and cargo condemn- .
ed.
Schooner Isabella, captain Meany, cf ,
Philadelphia, from Surinam, carried into '
St. Domingo. Vessel *n<! cargo condemn
ed.
Brig Fair American, capt. Philips, of
and from Baltimore, bound tojacquemen
into Jacquemel on the 19th Decem
ber. Veflel and cargo condemned, on ac
count of having Eritifh manufactured goods
on board.
Schooner Carmelite, eaptain Watts, of
and from Baltimore, bound co Aux-Cayes,
carried into St. Domingo on the 19th of
December. Veflel and cargo condemned,
on the plea of having on board British ma
nufattuted goods.
Sch'r. Citizen, Mafley, of and from Bal
timore, bound to St. Domingo captured
and sent down to Jaquemel on the 12th of
January. The captain taken out and sent
to St. Domingo, Expefted to be condem
ned.
January 8, fpokc the brig Fair Ameri
can, capt. Burke, of and bound to Phila
delphia, from Aux-Cayes, out one day.
Jan. 27, iu fight of the Hogfties, spoke
fchr. Isabella, capt. Hufley, fram Jaquemel
of and bound to Portland.
Jan. 28, to the northward of Crooked
Island, spoke fchr. Argo, captain Randie,
from Aux-Cayes, of and bound to Ports
, mouth.
: The managers of the City Dane
' ing Assembly give notice that on account of an E
» le<stion to be held on Thursday the aad inft. tl»o
Ball in honor of George Washington's birth,
? is pofloned to Friday the 13d instant. •
I LadiTft and Gentlemen are reauefted to deliver
. their Cards of luvitatio*! at the door.
\ Ffb. 1 f. §t23d
[ Broker's Office,
No' T4O Oh fnut, arinv* ' ourtii Prect.
; GEORGE TAYLOR, jvn.
j TT VING ly the advice of hi*
11 menccd th buflnefs of JsR KKR, inform#
3 them «nd the public, that he « now ready, and
would be happy ro execute their csmimnd*. Ha
farnilkes monry on. Joan, buys and fells all kind*
of Bank and other Public Stock, &c. at the
.ufnal enmnnflion.
e 1 he Frenrh and Language* trans
lated with fidelity and dispatch. And the requi- -
a site papers prepared for obtaining; Letters Patent
II under the a& for promoting the of use*
' ful arts.—Apply as above.
F bruary ai at
~ BALL
f. Pollpotied on account of the Eleftion, to
1- Saturday the 24th.
>f _
b- Mr. Francis, at the requelt of his Schol
r- ais has, on account of the Eleftion, postpon
ed his present Ball, trt Saturday the 24th.—
Mr. F. alio informs the Subscribers to his
,r Seleft Balls, that the full of the second
j fubferiptisn will be on Tuelday the 27th.
j. Feb. 22.
TERMS-
Each Subscriber to ply Five Dollars, which
to entities hirntoa gentleman's ticket, and cards of
■y adroiffion for two ladies at-each ball.
ie. The firll ball to lie on Tiiefday, the loth of
i Fe Tu iry, and-to Vie continued every Tuesday
ty till the eiut- of the fubfo iptioti, at the end of
•n which Mr. Francispropoli-j giving an extra hall
?- to tbe fuhfcribprs, •
ty Mr. Francis also informs those gen
he tlenieu wha have nor already subscribed, that
ur tile plan of the lubfcription is to be fe;n at Mr.
F.'s bout, No. je Nbrth Uijfith Street.
F-b. ti. .
n FOR SALE,
A quantity of C \LF SKINS, ij» the rough,
and feme horse leather. Apply to
ROBERT SMITH & Co.
lii No. 58, South Front Itreet.
a . Feb. r;. daw
■s, Heufc and Lots, in Bordeniown.
TO BE SOLD, a handfeme two story House,
with the Lot on which i' is ereflcd, lituat
to ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
. Village of Eordentown. The house is farty
. two left in froAt, and in neat order. The lot
cir contain! one acrs, and is one hundred feet on
the main flrect, aad extends with the fame
St. hi eadth to t>ack i'reer. Also, a larje Lot, con
! a tainSnj; nearly four acres, feparatei from the
lUJ former by back ftreel. One third only of the
pnrcha r e money will be required "upon exfeut
ing a deed, at d fjr the remainder, fucli credit
j w il he give* as thepwrch>fer msy (hufe. 1 his
m- proper y will he fold free of all incumbrance.',
on , ai)(i an inlifyutable title given.
16. | For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
le _ I William Burnes, refuling in Bordentuwn, near
■ the premises, who will fhrw the or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-flreet.
'Pj ncccmWer a. 3awtf
la ! : FOR SALE,
a " Several fonts of Types—half worn,
li,eluding Long Printer, ahout 400 weight, in
• good condition, pi fid would aiifwrr the purpose of
a country Printer a w ell a* n«w.
Enquire of tat Printer-
Hyson and Young Hyfon*Tea.
A fe>\* chests of excrllent qualky, for sale, corj
dr of and Pin« llrcets. • list a 6—; uttJt'ST RECEIVED,
C<
AND ro a SALE, AT
W. Younc's Book-store, r'
Corner of Chcfnnt and Second ftre«ts, P
( Priot 5* Cmti)
v Ca*fcs qui fc foilt oppofces auic (i
du commerce, entre I.A FRANCE et les
ETATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQ^IE.
Avee les Moyeni de I'isciUrer ; cl
Et la comparaifon dc la Dctte Nationale r p '
dc I'Anglcterrc, dc la France,, and des 1 f<
ETATS-UNIS. I
In fix Lettrea, addreffiei a Monfieurle Mar- c<
quia de la Fayitte. Traduit'fur le Ma-
nofcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Legislature dela Rtpublique C (
du MafTacLvlTet.
Le ComitMTH «fl la portion la plus importante des
(Richeiro Nationales. ° !
L«TridentdeNept»ne,eftle fccptredu Monde. P
Lkmiihe, n '
Or caules that hav« been »ppofed to thu h
PROGRESS of COMMERCE botwesn p
MAMCt <mt the UNITLD STATES cf AMERICA, d
With the means of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts |
of England, Frmntc y and Anurka.
La Six letters, directed to the Marquis
OK LA FAYETTI.
Tranflated(inlo Ertncb from the original Eng
*<h Manufcri t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legiflamre of Massachusetts.
Commerce in the mod important portion of the M
Wealth ol Nations.
the world. Lemierb.
P
AT a juncture when tb* of c
a Commit* ia I treaty with France may soon
become an objeJt of difcufiion, a work of this kind _
becomes cxsremely ufetui to those eititens of the
United States, who may be defirons to citable them
fclves to view this fubjed, under its various af
petfts ; at>d they will have the fatisla&ion to be J
furnifeed with the neceflary data, to judge of the
ufeiulnefs of this tranfaAion.
This work is principally diftioguifhed by the }
richness of the obfervationa, the pcrfpieuity of the 1
it'eas, and the modeily of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit obfarved, that J
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is'addref • ?
fed to the unfortunate La Favetti, in letters, 1
which fugitive form, the author who could only 1
devote a few wefks to this occupation, was obliged r
to adopt. Although are ill many f
refpeAs different at the present day, from what 1
•hey were in the year 1790, when these letters a
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so raa- 1
ny absolute and permanent data ft ill remain, that f
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of c
the alterations, which have been made, are the re- *
fult of the author's remark*, it will ftrve to con
vince him that in all tranfailioijs, between free
nations, every thing may ec from the ef- '
sorties truth and juflice.
LETTER I.
General view of th<* oHftacles,*created in France,
to prevent the extension ot commerce, with the '
United Stats—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfomc French manu- ]
f»*ftures (i precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
againlk the quality, of certain produdions of the
Vsited States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demontlration of the had policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on .
provilions in and on fait provisions, and
fifti in pa-ticMlar—Confederation! ou the regulations
of the French cuftona-houfes.
LETTER 11.
Obftactes to the extension of trade with Fran:e,
proceeding from circumftmcf* and individuals in
the United Statc9—Proofs that these ohftacles are
only temporary an 4 will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern-
of the influence of the American
paper money —lmportant j rinciples and abftraA
confider&rions on money and circulation—Caufcs
of the (lagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condu&
of the French merchants— Effeds of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wilheson frhisfubje&—
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER 111.
Effayin the form « f a table**, to appraise the im
poitations into the United Statesfrm France and Eng
land united. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better lurnithed from France or j
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which j
would have ailomlhed a mere thforii!) that the author |
fppears to evince great commercial experience These j
kind of tableaux, unluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only sure guides
the statesman can take for th' policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the apparent ex
a£boef» of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the propbtfies of Lord Sheffield have already been
oon'raditteri by experience, and by several able pern,
yet it iscuitous to fee the author of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only grour d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the requited condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to supply us with (everal articles,
which the English authoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's partiality afieSl on (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in <7091 that is to fay, zta period when arts
and manuta&ures did pot present in France the vatt
means and probabitt'.y of extension which they now
poffc f«. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half ofanv given quantity of the of France
and > ngland but also to enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wisdom of her government, and ifce industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excellent work ot Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
sJeau is by no means fupetfluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation us provifiom and raw materials, is every
where applied 1 and it is upon this argument, that
the author establishes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admission of the produc
tions ol his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt r>f the United States at that
lime—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effe&sof national debt, on circulation, Ac. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bollon in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrcngthen in France, the pubi c and private credit
•f the United States —the happy condition of Ameri.
ca, and the miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, are cont-afted in the ablefl manner, and un
der the rooftllr iking iela:bns, by very cu ious cal
culations—Observations on the wisdom and economy
which prcfide overthe public expenses in MaflTachu
fctts. In this place the patriot if m of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation wh.cH ajuft national
pride intpires* Theancirnt governments of Europe,
(ays he, will learn from us the art of economy in j
resompenfingthefervices whtch the country receives:
Amor.gfl ut it tvill Jkefcen, that men are chojen Jor places,
and places for men. Th ; s letter concludes wish a
general view of the public property, deposed in the
hands of the government of the United States.
LETTER Vi
General examination of the defects of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United States ;
many of ihefe observations have produced the cffcQs
for «were intended, others (till remain, j
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a' !
&ood cban m«k* the Aoalc and tocts, ihe si#,or j
concludes his work, by fixing hit attention on his
country, and the Kreat mca who have rendered it il-„
lufttious: and wc a pleasure in quoting what He
fays of the present chief of our government, sb A
praise a man when he exercises a dillinguifhed em
ployment, ia common, and iihy be taken for flattery ;
but wbilfl he ia in private iiie, it ia the homage of (
sincerity.
Note, page 316 of tha work,
* Lea kaiiiians des Etats-unis, fuivant dam leur
choix le hien public, Sc excitca par un principe de
reconnoiifatice, choiftrent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouveau cougres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intriguca formees par le £ouv- J
frnement Anglais contre fa liberie, !e rendirent cres
fufpeft a ceux" qii etoient en pouvoir- Le peuple,
convaincu de son merit e, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congres. De ce nombrg
etoit auili M Samuel Adams, patriote auffi intrcpide,
qu'infatigable. Li revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, 6c a fes talens
di fringes. Crux que M. John Adams a developpes Cx
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783, "
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre auffi habile que grand *'
politique. Kt dans son euvrage fur la defenfe de la
constitution Araericaine, il a tnontae toutes les can- P
noilTances qui forment les vrais jurifconfultes A lea *
hommesde loi; connoifTance* necelTaires, pour rem- a
plir honorabiement lea fon&ions de president du senate
des Etats-unis. e
W. Haybon
Delineator of Drawing—from London, t
(Where he has iludied several year» under one of
the molt eminent masters in (hat ftience) #
INFORMS hi» friends, that he ha» re-commenc- J
ed hi« private tuition.—Ternu, as usual, Six r
Dollars per month, for attendance three ttme»-a )
week. Likewif*, all kinds of Ornamental Paint .
ing, fruit, flowsrs, &c. taught oa the above terms. a
W. H. fiatters hirafelf his terms will be partieu- ,
larly advantageous to thefc that anvploy hint, as
he makes n. additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line direfled to W. H. l#ft at the •fTice ef this j
Gazette, will be immediately attended ts.
January ~ fiw (
To 6e Sold, \
AGREEABLY to the lad will and teftantent of
William Hkysham, deceased,' and pofTef- {
fion glvwi immediately, a valuable property in Arch <
street, betwewi Third and Fourth (Ireets, eonfift- j
ingof thehetife, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is erefted, a stable, and other improvements.— ]
The house is ao feet front, and contains ten good i
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth a« the <
house and *©9 feet deep, with a well of water and 1
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The liable Aaiids on the rear oT
the lot and will accommodate four and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,expand
ing Co Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofTelTes with to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
person wishing to po/Teia an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 18, Vine
Street—of
Rcbert Heysham,
or fA&ing Etosctitorf.
Franks Bowes Sayrb, j
January 11 _ t $
The Subscriber intends to mak«
application for the ienewal of a Certificate of a Shere
in the Bank of the United States,|ftand*ngwi the name
ofA.B. N0.5004, dated July 11,1797, the fame
having'beeu loft. JOIiN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec, i. ffiw
NOTICE,
ALL persons who have any demands again!)
the estate »f Wilum Fleewtoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and these who arc indebted
to the fame, ire desired to make immediate
payhitat, to
GEO. DOBSON, Ij. . ,
No. 15, So. Third-street. \ Aimim fi r r
January 4. dtf
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
6IMON WALKER,
Piae-fireet, ntar Fifth.
January *9 dlw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—Enquire a
No. 131, Arch-street.
Jan, 17. diw
1 ■ ■ r ..... - -
[ A House in Burlingtdn for Sale.
r r_ P'HE fubferiber has a large, conveaient two
; JL story brick House, with Stables, Carriage
s house, and a well improved Gardes, in the City
s of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wilhet to
- sell. Ber terms apply at No. 5, South Fourtfi
- street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
1 Lots in Waihington City,
' Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
[J harbour.
December if. yot
, e . To be fold,
- AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ie lA. ing 6 acres and 40 perchcj, with a neat twe
ftouy brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
n ; Orchard, &c. filuate an the Irish tra6l lane, in the
'* ! townlhip of Moyamenftng, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known npen application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
ct The improVemwits upon this place, foe tade and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
, n December 1. dtf
y PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal patronage, the
Subscriber ia emboldened to ißue proposals
0 for printing by fubfcriptioß, the JOURNALS OF
,c CONGRESS, from their firll meeting in 1775,10
the present time.
This work fhali be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose; and on good paper. It
at i will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o&a
---vo) in 6 vo)s.--cafli to he paid on delivery.
It isneedlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertaking—the scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United &ates, 19 fufHcient to jufti
■t 1 fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that
ie ; fuccefj, which heii certain the enterprire deserves.
« JOHN PARKER.
" Jan. 17. d6t
it For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and hay tiercel
BaurJeaux Brandy
Tenerije Wine
y Motajei
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Rai-eni Duck and one bogjbead of faiit
1 brufbes.
' N. (j 1 J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sontii Front Street.
, Not. 7. dI m
Jujl Hubli/hed,
And to be had of Meflrt. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and tho other prieipal Bookfellert in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-fivecent«,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
• Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. o.
June 10. 'it
Proposals, J
Fft* PRINTING /tr StrSSCRIPT/OI
A NEW AMD INTERESTING WORK, IStlTblll,
A TREAIISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes anJ wvif
demeanors, by which public arji private proper
ty, arc, at prcfent, injured and endangered :
Afid fuggeQing remedies for their prevention.
»Y A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Snrry, Kent,
aud ElTex ; for the city and liberty of
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon- #
don. y
'To these ivh« have read this curious and valuable Tvork,
it tvill need no recommendation—'they knot¥ its solid merit
—but as it has hitherto got into very fetu hands in this
country, it luill not be amiss to obferve —-so great ivas tbt 1
approbation and demand in London, that it pajfed through
three large editions in the courfs of twelve tkOntbs. As a
detail of the ingenious varieties of fratfd, that endanger
property in Londoi, and ntofl other overgrown and opulent
e'ttici, it cann+t fail to the reader great entertainment
as -well as injlruStion / but as the author traces all these
enormities to a feiv, and in themselves, inewjiderabte cauf
es y many of ivbict) equally exijt in all the large oupita/s of
the United States, the bufinef is brought home to our oivn
doors ; and the work has an incrcajing claim to our atten
tive perusal.
'/• ajjijl the, legislator and the mag if rate in the humane
office of prevonting crimes, and their consequent punijh
mrnfs, was the patriotic deftgn of the author. " Private
offences, he fays, are the source of public crime*, and the
bsjl methfid of guarding focitty a gam ft the latter is, to make
proper provi fww, for checking the former" — 41 Those men
art aa/ily jeducedfrom their loya 'ty who are apostates from
virtue,
CONDITIONS*
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price j
of One Dollar and a half; although the latt London !
edition, on inferior paper. and meanly bound, rs I
now fold at *wo dollars and a half. To non-fub
feribers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to the p**c»fs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
Subferiptions v/lil be thankfully received at
Bf.njamin Baviej>Vs book-ftoie, No 68, High
ftreet, and by molt ©f ths other booksellers in the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York.
January 31. aawtA
ROSS £sf SIMSON, "
HAVE for sale*
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM. N
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, and
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
G<h. 27. §
To be Exchanged for
BrtUfby Germany or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A traft of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland «o.
and containing 10,000 Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan; If. 4
COLOjNffilA'HoOSir"'
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and aflurts her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, ihe has made a i'uperior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation ef her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in fteir
refpeflive profeffiona.
Corner of Spruee and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1 797. simftf
The fitaation is perfeflly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an txtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE,~at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
N». si, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT .f the Committee of the House of
Reprsfentatives of the United Stites, appoint
. Ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
. against WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
j United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
) demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
1 the House of Representatives, authorizuig the said
Committee to Gt during the recess of Congress, and
inftruSing them " t® enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to dtfeover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William BSount
j " Hands impeache.., and who are the earties and
" aflbciatestherei*."
Printed by order of the Htufe of Representatives
December »o.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
* No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
means of becoming perfed in the French Lan~
U puage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fitting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the b«ft cal
culated to afford cither ufeful inftruAion, or plea-
fure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All tranOations from and into the French,
Engiifh and Spanish Language?, exeeutec with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nov.
c ' —"
<* Samuel Pleafants Sons,
0 No. 74, South Second-Jlreety
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, ©n
t r<afonih!e terms. Oft 27 —4W
This Day is Publilhed,
f BY .Ve(f. Dobfon, Carey, Campbdl, Ric and the
s other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty.Eve cents,
t Elcgaittiy printed on IVuve paper, and H»t.
1. pressed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of tht several State» with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Conftitutiaa, and
claiTingtogether their most important provifiorw,
under the several heads of administration \ with
t Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. ant! member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to th» People of the UnitodStates.
N. B. A few Copi s printed on an inferior pa*
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX fok SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and futh
day morning, between the hours ot lo and 11—
back of na.ji, south Fifth (Ireet, above Spruce
(lreet. eodiw j
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
AT TNE 'Ji sross,
corner of Arch and Front (treet. i
HJFE FOR SALS,
Cotton and worflcd Holiery in trunk*,aflorcd
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puilicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondichcrry and Madrafs drtt# '
Ditto Gurraha
Bengal black Taff?tie§ *
4000 picc«s Nankeens, an 4
Few cht'fts best Hyson Tea
Alfo—lsoo boxt't best London Window Glaf9, *
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14—and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware aflforted, which they will difpofa of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3tawtf^
Imported (via tTevr York) on the '
Ihip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at Nf. 61, Chefnut (Ireet, j
between Sectvnd and Third Street?, the follow
ing articles . (
Maharagonges Charconn-a Dorans
Chintz and Cahooes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis RomaU fcindannoes
Nillas & Pendafoft Chafla Rcmals
Blue clottt Hair ribbon
Mul4Multha«kerchiefs Patempores
Patna do. Hanares Opium
Leflcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
: november iy tuths4w
Valuable Books,
Just ree«ived by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and feHingby
J. Orm rod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. !
CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual flock, form an
extensive and elegant col!e<3io» of ancient and
modern literature, and oomprife books in f«»-
dry languages and on various fubjeflsk
This Say it
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handfomeJy
bound and lettered, and embelltfhed with au ]
elepant fromifpitce and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable of interesting and
mifceUaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy efl'e&s «f youthful in
nocence aad filial affeiftion—ln prose and yerfe.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pebhihed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Fcnak Education.
Subferiptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by theprinter. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to tublcribers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliflied with an elegant frontifpiece, for o«e
dollar.
January 3. 3t.
For sall, sr j
• William Priestman,
149, South Front-street, next door to the Guf
tom-house, '
A large affortmcnt ef
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
te the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duslliag Piflols, by Knubley, Charing
Cross
RefieiSifig TeUfcope, by Ribright
Box of pateit Medicines
feo lb. Scotch Thread
Small collection of valuable B«oks, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentneky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
January 4. d?t
School Books- and Stationary.
W. Y O U N G,
No. Sccond-ftreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of English, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, ft*ch elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
I and collegcsthroughout the United States.
I LATELY PUBLISHED,
I Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo pricey dols.
Ditto, large Ia mo price i dol. 75 cfs.
I Ditto, common, price 1 dol.jocts.
All fores of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
flieathiwg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
~ blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifceUaneous collection of
r BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
• by inquiring as above. Oft. 24. —3aw6w
; Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
' THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. oiftavo.
By William Young, BooifeUtr,
' No. 53, Second Ureet, the corner of Chafnut tlreet,
f Price ,in boards 87 1-2 Cents J
- Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
J VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
' On the principles established in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
c With an attempt to corrcfl some important er
rors of that work, arid cases in illustration, chief
ly feleifled from the records of their pra<fticr, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br JVILLIAM TaTSS & ChAS. MkCLSAN.
To which isfubjoined, a Treatise on the aSion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility.
Andadiflertation onthe fourcos of Epidemicand,
Peftilentialdifoafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induflion of faOs, that they ne
{ ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
,, ced by certain slates, or certain viciffitudos of
> the atmosphere, by Charles Maclfan, «f
Calcutta. m
nov. it.
Wanted, to Hire,
and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will lit-given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer »efm. Inquire of the Printer.
Oft. 17. cots
Tin Plates,
FOK SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, sear Fifth Aroet.
December *l. iw
The eargs of the Wcft-huiiiti froni
Jamaica.landing at South Street wharf*
13S hhds. and 300 barrels choice Ccffcc
98 Hhds ot prime Sugar
£9 Hhds. of Rum,
For fait By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFKRS >GR iAL£,
s©o, o»© Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpa>niola Cocoa
Red Port Wine in pipes aud hogsheads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 dtweotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a ccnfiderable time on the
million in the country parts of the 4iteof Penn
sylvania, rives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the said slate, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufqwehanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat!-
tlement with from fifty te one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered— ■
For fnrther information, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Willing'* Alley.
Feb. g. -*jt
For Sale. • .
THE Subscriber offer* for file the property now
•ccupied by him in the town of West-Chester
and county ofChefler. It confiflsof a well finifhed
two flory flone heufe, 43 feet front, by about 40
deep, four rooms on a fiver, with cieled garrets,
and a cellar under the whole—A very good ft one
Stable and Coach Jioufe—[And a lot of' Gsound,
three perches wide, by twenty perches depth.
The houfc Hands on the Main flreet; its fitaatUn
is high and very handsome; the lot extends to a
back llreer, on which the liable and coach houfc
stand. The let is in a high slate of cultivation,
a»d there is in tie yard a pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, been known t« fail.
The inuatiou of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country trouad it, fertile and
beautiful.
The term of payment will made to suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm'TH, at »•.
My 1 South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT F'AZER.
February 5. mwftf
City Commissioner's Office,
January \%th, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZINI.
THE following arrangement is marie by the
laid commissioners, for cleansing the
ftrsets, &c.
Diftridt No. j.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry flreet; to
be under the fuperiryendance of Nicholas Hick*.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry llreet, to
the south fide of Chefnut ftrreet, to be under th?
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
j. From the feuth fide of Chefnut flreet to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be undec the
fuperintendanee of Joseph Claypooje.
4- From the north Tide of Spruce ftreit, te the
south fide of Cedar street,! to be under the fu
perintendanee of Hugh Roberts. rowfim
OVAL BOTTLES. ~~
Quart and half gallon in erates —and a quant! 1
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fizc—For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January ti 3taw6w.
Recently Publijhei,
And jufl imported from England, by Wiili Aft
Griftiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Moro « n J. Ruees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two clofeljr
printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illustrations of Prophecy :
la which are elucidated many predi<2i«ns, which
occur in (faiah, Daniel, the writings of the Eva*-
geVifls, and f'ook of Revelation ; which are tho't
to foretell among oth«r great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the intereSs of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclesi
astical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
f'ubfequent iselioration of the Rate of the
WGrld : together with
A large eollcftion of Extrpfts,
Interspersed through the work, and taken froi*
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
V ltrroga, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hem y More, Bengelius,
> Dr. John Owen, Daubuz,
Dr.Creffencr, Whitby,
Peter Jurieo, 1 owman,
1 Brenius, Bishop Newton, and
1 Bishop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of ia
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a considerable number of fads or ob-
I fcrvations on the fvmbolic language of prophecy,
the authenticity, uses, and obfeurity of the apo
oalypfe, and the genuineness of the Hebrew pro
f phets; on the rapid corruption of christianity in
the fourth century ; on the difperlion and reitera
tion of the Jews, the history of the fal£e Mefliahs
f who have appeared among them, and the rtafone
1 in support of the conjc&ure that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
r«fiflance to oppreflion; on the irruptions of th«
northern nations, a«d the causes of the decline and
1 fall of the Roman empire; on the cufloms of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those nations, and those of the
• Turks ; on the ufuxpadon of the Mamaldkes, and
the pail hiflory and prefer.t slate of Egypt; on
, the charaftcr andconduA of Conflantine, Jultini
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
1 books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
cline of literature ; en the rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall; on the in
consistencies in the political characters of bifhope
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
j Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
efTe&s which ehriftianity has produced in favor of
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pre*,
mote theeftabliflimcnt of equal governments.
ludependent of the large proportion of original'
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
' Intcrefled in thefubjefi will, it isp-efumed, wish,
toperufe or confultthem, because the extra&s
' troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
I marked with inverted commas, are taken from a,
greater number of writers on the prophecies-(a*
. load if the roman catholic commentators be ex
, , eluded) than are eafiljr accefiible to any eneindivi
• dual even in Europe, or are probibly to be found
lin any one library in the world They arc ter
! nilhed with indexes, and a co; ions table of con
" tents. Jan U—aawiw
Chocolate and Multard,
of a superior quality manufadtured,
GINGER and l'epper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Bailey; Philadelphia Pirt'er, Bee',
i Ale and Cyder ; Taur.ton and Burton Ale ;
London Porrier ; red. Port and l.iCbon Wine,
fuitalile for exportation or bone confumpkon.
The highest price given for Muflard-Seed.
Mfo far sale, A quantity of Booking anil
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bile of
Fuflims, Shawls,&c. for sale hv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 9!, south Fione-flrcet.
«»» m.&ch.t.ij.