A! "> Philadelphia Daily Advertiseh
pIUMSEM 1960.3
The, price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcri
bsrs residing in the city of Philadel
phia. Jill others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclosing and direftihg;
and unless fomeperfon in this city will \
become answerable for the fubj"crip
lion, it mufl be paid Six Months in \
advance.
——.—- —~—. — ■ ■-
Jamaica Rum.
THE CARGO,
Of the £hip CHARLES, Captain Salter,
„ . Fn m the North fide of Jamaica,
Kear 260 hhds. of fine high proof
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South ka-'tt Wharf.
PETER BLIGHT.
ihi ship
CHARLES,
Captain Salter,
Coppered, mount >v«lvc 6 pona lers and thir y-
Ifive men—returns iinrr.«iiat«ly to Jamaica, fur
Passage apply a* above.
dec 17 . drm
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE,
The Swedish Snow
m A MARIA,
Haks Olof Kock, commander.
A remarkably good veffiil, about t%o tons bur
then. A freight to CaUia, or any part of the
Mediterranean would b« preferred. Enquire of the
Captain on beard at Vine-Strett Wharf
<Jet 17 $
, Sale.
THE SuhscrlaKr , intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole fkock of
Drngs and Meiticinc?, Instruments, Btl,
The Ihop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
ently known for the extt nGve business cont in the
wholesale and retail line ; the flotation equal to
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Seaond iVrcrts. she whole, or any par* of the
Stock, will be fold, as will best suit the purciafer.
Th« terms may be known, byarplving to
JAMES MOORE, jon.
Wko has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order..
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in co'tnulcte order for'hehjmberbufiuefs.
£jT All perlotis iii>.4 i ■. -*!-■- !--- pm
KjoiJthrujit tS" Ruldivin. IV. B Goldtbwait, Colu
tbwait V Micrt, or the subscriber, are carneilly
rcquetted to make speedy payment to
JAME:) MOORE, jbn.
aagast 3 $
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order.
ro* SALE »*'
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aortb Froni-Jlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT
Of about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira W me, 3 years old.
nov »i w»4t
WILMINGTON,
N '<o RTH-Carolina,
THI SHI?
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
derate terms, and fail about the
Hth instant. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimet's wharf, or
Willings & Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 $
Ship Broker's Office,
. And Commijfton Store,
No. 119, South front Strfft,
Next <!oi»r to she Cuflom House.
r T , HE SubH-ribf r, encnuraged oy the advice of
-I- his friends, offers hij service to the public
as a Ship and Infu-anct Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing rrlat
ing thereto—afiift maflers of veffeU and others
in entering an\J clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inl'ur
anc« ar.d all edier m»rcantile accoun's, and
bave on hand the receffary Blan ki and Stamps.
Papers in foreign Unguages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile rriatTtrs.
From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of bufineft he hopes to be ufe
ful to tho r e who please to favor him witl) their
command*. SAMUEL EMERY.
noveiT.Ucr to {
AUGUSTUS FRICKET"
Woollen Men'sMercer
No. "},fouth Thirdjtrcet,
HAS RECEIVED,
fer the Vafl arrival from Europe, a large, assort- !
went of the tafhionable Goods in his line.
And has tonjlantly for sale a general assort•
ment of
First rate London fuperfine Broad
Cloths
'-"afiimeres
Vest Pattern, of all kinds
And every other article in the gentleman's line
»>y wholesale and retail,
dacembcr 10 dtf
By John Ward Fen no, N°- 119 Cbefnui Street.
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 29, (798.
For sale by tbe subscriber,
At Portsmouth (n.h.)
• J"** THE HULL
IliiSbs NEW SHIP,
Ja feet keel, 17 I-» U*am, !• feet hpld, 5,10
between deck?; a Wilt 330 tons ; wirh m aft s, (pars
and all the carpenter'* and smith's work com
pleted ; built of good found seasoned timber and
plank; launched in November, 1796, and has been
welttakencareoffir.ee that time.—Further par
ticulars may be known hjr applying t« Mtffrs.
Wharton 3t Lewi*, Philadelphia, or to
THOMAS THOMPSON,
december 2t
FOR BREMEN,
the brig
SPECULAI lON,
Areno Wistinc, Mastik,
NOW laying at Henry Pratt's wharf, the firft
below R\cr iire< t—lhe is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twen'y toils, burthen ; will fail with
all poflible dispatch—For freight or passage apply
to
PRATT y KINTZING,
no. 95, north Water-flriet.
Who have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
Ticklenburghs PattcrborHes
Oznalir'g* Check*
.Heffun* Strip*!
_l Jrowu roll, Slippcra
Coffee bigg Cambrreki
Platillas Twine
Brittmias Glafc tawbftra
Eftopailles Port wine
Creas ala Morlai* Window glaft
B elctield liner. Bnmftone, at:.
Dorolat
december 13 tb.fam».jw
————— 1 , 1 T
Nicklin & Griffith,
H IFE FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale or piece,
(No. 1 & 8)
One bale of feamrng-twine
Copper in iheeM, from 24 by 48 to 48 by 60
inches
Two tub* raised copper still bottoms
Queens' ware, assorted in crates
London porter in bottles, contained in cafe*
Empty port-wine bottles
Y eliow ochre in calks
Cochineal in ferons
ludigo in do. & calks
35 eafej and trunks of muflir.s, ginghams, dimi
ties, muflinets and pullicat handkerchief*, in
small assorted packages, calculated for the
Weft India market
II trunks printedcallicbe*
4 bales calfimeres, assorted
r <{o. coarir w oolcim
Old Madeira wine
Sheathing paper
Engli(h nails in caflcs, assorted.
The Brig
AMAZON,
FOR SALE OK CHARTER.
December J9. ra.w.&fa.tF
DRIED PK ACHES,
In barrel*
Demijohns
Claret "i
Porter, and >• bottles.
Port Wine J
And Gorki in Bales—For sale by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
Dec. 10 eo6t
Book-Keeping.
Wants a Place,
IN AM ELIGIBLE
ACCOMPTING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Write, well, is a Ready Reck
oner, a pr*&ical Book Keeper, and can be
well recommended, a line, (or personal applica
tion) dirt<Sed to M. M So. Ji, North Seventh
ftrect, will b< duly attended to.
N. B Books elofeu, and new Accompts open
ed, Partßcrlhip Accompts adjufttd, or any hufintfs
in the Book Keepir g line, done at (be above place,
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17 5
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of tke Editor, No.
119 Chelnut-ftrcet,
(Price l-itb as a Dol.ar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequefl of the Inhabitant* of the Town of
BOSTON, in comwiem.- ration of the anni
versary of American Independence.
By Josiah s>uTticr.
" The inroads upon our public call
for reparation—The wronps we have futiai»ed,
call for—Justice. 1 hat Reparation and that
Juftise, may vet be obtained, by Uiihn, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and C'Atqucr was
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,-
and to disuni'j and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votari'e* from that period to the
present."
Observations on the BostrM Part-Bill, life.p. 78
by the late J. Quincj, jun.
aueuft 11
NOTICE.
PURSUANT to the lalt will and teflament
of Lindsay Coats, will
be fold by Public Vendue, on Thuifday, the
third day of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon, at the hwtife of Thomas I.owry,
(sign us the Bird in Hand) in Upper Merion
Township, Montgomery c uney
A valuable Grift Mill,
AND ABOUT
Twenty-five acres of Land,
Situate in the said township, levefal acres of
which are mtailo*, and ihe greater part of the |
remainder wood lartd.—The conditions of sale
will be made known liy
KACfiEL COATS, Executrix,
Dec. 10
FOR. SALE
By the Sttb/cribcrs,
ON V EEY LOW TERM*
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Either by the single box of 14!!*. or by the qui,,
tity.
W tilingj & Frnncijf,
DOV - U
removalT
Geohge Dobson,
INFORMS Ims friends and the Public in general
that he hat removed frorrt No. a 5 Soutk Third
Street, t© No 9^,South fide of Markct-ftre.t, near
the corner ot Third Street* and is bow epening
a very cxtenfive aflortxnent if
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEd SON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the fhipt William Penn, AmiaMe, and Jane,
from London, and per Chef ipeak and bomas
from Liverpool, and will b. laid low f«r calb,
or approved note* at a short date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caffimeret, lalhionaMc colours
Yorkshire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and olaiu coatings
W.(ch flannels
Kerfty beav.r, for Spencers
Jeantiets and TaD'-y cords
• Velvet* And vdrctteens
Velverets and thickft-tts
7, 8, 4 4 and II 8 cotton aad luna checks
7 and 4 4 bed ties
j 6-4 and 7 4 bed bunts
Lon.ton chintz and chintz furniture!
Furniture cot:ons
Do. dimities
Purple and cMon ftawts
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
India ind British muflinsof every dtfcrbtioa
Black and white crape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats afl'or/ed in small cases
Umbrellas
Pollings ard fattiai
Laces atul edgings
Ribbands
Modes
Superfine French caabriek
Cambrick muflms
Do. threads
Putieatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment of
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 11
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
*®. 96, NO4 T H SIXTH-IT IKET,
Respectfully informs the Public —t
he continues to ttacb Ladies tb* Piam
Forte as usual.
Nov. 6. turhst
IHIRTT DOLLARS,
\TT!LL be paid for apprehending and lode-
VV ing i»*»y goatta tltcllniud Stat**, the
following delerter* frant the Driaware "Slooo of
War, viz.
Thomas Jones, ftiroan, formerly resided in
Meade Alley, Southwark, lighthair, freft com
plexion and blue eyes, about five-feet nipt inch
es high.
Thomas Brown, ordinary feamtn, about ive
feet three inches high, ligln hair, grey eyes ind
Iwarthjr, about n years of age. also,
Richard Cu!ven, ordinary legman, about five
feet iix inches high, aged twenty-tbree yeaA,
light hair, blue eyes and fwarthy.—Culven aid
Browr.iare both natives of Philadelphia, and are
fnppofcd to he concealed by some of their ac
quaintance in this city.
STEPHEN DECATUA,
Commander of the Delaware
Sloop of Waft,
•lea 1 7 j 6t
The Subscribers have for /die,
Malaga Wine, in quarter cafc»
Red Port ditto, in Pipe*, Hhds and quarter calks
Old Madeira ditto, fit lor immediate >tfc
French Brandy
Spanilh ditto, (not co'cscd)
Medoc Claret, in Cases
Fir 1 fort Isinglass
I new Cable, 9 irckes
I ditto 11 inches
i new Hawser, 7 inches.
Philipsy Cramond Ce.
dec »7 jt
NO TIC E.
ALL Pcrfnnt indebted to the Estate cf doc
tor Hugh Hodgt, deceased, are raeuelted
to make immediate payment—and thofc Saving
demands against the Estate arc del-red to utheu.
ticate and prelent them to.
MARIA HODGE, adminiAratux.
SAMUEL, HODGBEN, adminijirattr.
nov 20
——
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; made a] the Trea.
fury of t le United States, for the renewal of
the following certificates of Funded Debt, (and
ing ill the name ot Robert Whitworth, of Clellea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forv*rd
ed by the (hip Ellice, Hatvcy, (torn Londoi fur
New-York, capturad by the French, andfajoof*!
to be Wfc.
N0'1143 7. 6 Per Ceat. Stock, dated Mew-
York, 18th April, 1'96, fur Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Her Cenjt. dated New-Tork,
18th April 1796, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
November 18 diw
— "■ ■ ' ' j
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to the last will and teftatnent ©f
Michael C ATTs.deceofed,a viable
Plantation & Trad of Land,
containing one hundre 1 and feventjr three acres,
the Tellator's lare .residence, situated in North
•iufquehanna Hundred, Ceocil enmity, Maryland,
about three mile from the tide-water of Sufque
hanna, and at a convenient distance from fcveral
places of worlhip of Friends ard Pra&ytereant.
On premifrs ice a Tan yard and eoirreDicn
ce< belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dwelling
boufs, liable, orchard and other imrfovemests,
wi'h 12 or 15 acres of good watcrad mead w, and
a fuffitiettt proportion df viluahle timber.
For terms apply to the fcriber, in WetVNot
tirgham, about 3 miles from the premises.
THOMAS WARttTO, F.i-rittrr
nth mo. nth, 1793 $
Ju/t Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf.
Four- proof Brandy in Pipes.
Briiullt ne.
An ftil'ortment. of valuable DRUGS,
> CONSISTIftig OF
Opiim, Aloes, Cantharidca, Camphire, Senna,
Creoror Tartar, flee. Ac.
E(Tence»»f Lentou rnd Bcrgamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berrWs
A I. S o.—ltalian luteftringj
Satins
Craves
Umbrellas %
RciMaitiiag on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madiiira Wine of the firft quality.
James yard.
November 1 §
Bond i"rooks,
Corner or Market and mxth imiti,
H -Jli RFC PI PhD,
by the I'.te arrivals from London, Liver
pool and' Hull,
A L M MCE AND GEMRAL ASS>HMENT OF
DR} GOODS,
Which they are now opemrg for sale, at tha mod
reduced prices, for cafli cr the usual credit,
nov 17 S _
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of '.ld Lo.don particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n ftro'ng iron Hanvbro' calks, for
alt by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. jo. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM, ~
A Cargo now landing at South Jireet tvbarf,
FOR SALE BY
PE'TER BI.IGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS F(IR SALE,
BRANDY, ift and 4th prool
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
NOTICE,
PURSUANT to a ReMve of the Board of
Truflees of Walhington Academy, in Som
effet county, Maryland, authorising William
Polk, efqr. unjors Samuel Wilsom, and
Willi&m Jones, Member! of said Board, to
procure a principal teacher for said Academy.—
NOTICE is here y given, that a gentleman quaC
fijd to teach the Greek aud Latin Languager, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and such other
branches of Literature as it is customary to teach
in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
ment and it is prelttmed will be well accommodat
ed in taking charge of this Academy. The build
ing is spacious and will aceaeaodatt at lead Cxty
Students.
Prepofals may be addrefltd to John Dennis, No.
161 Ardi-ftreet, or William Wmdtr, accountant
in tht Navy department. Walnut ftreet»_Hhiladel
phfe < or to either of the three gentlemen above
-mentioned, near Princess Anne, Maryland,
dec 17 $
WWN'T E D7~
Couvcnicnt Lodgings, for an ekierly
Lady, in a refpnftabie private family, where
there are no childrea. Enquire at thin office.
dec 4 (I m
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFUi.LV informs his Pri»i»ds %nd
the Puhlic in general that he carrieson his
bufincTs at No 99 South Second-Jlrett, nearly op
petfite the Mcrv lnnt* Coffee house whwc gen
tlemen may be IVipplied in the neatefl and befl
manner—he afTurei ;hol"c who may plaafeto fa
vor him with their command* that no attention
or exertion on his fide IhaU be wanting to render
him worih\ of their encourag ment.
N. B. Orders received will bepundlualiy at
tended to.
November 5 9
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands againfl
eilatc ol tiie William Clifton,
doceafi-«l,and -who fcavs rot-already produced their
th.ir accounts, are rcqueftad to fend them to the
lubferibtr at Ho 17*.north l t con«l street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'z
Philadelphia, nov. 1798 m&th4w
JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER,
Embraces tbii »p:-ortunit, to prejent hit tbonis
to his fcllovj-dUxcns for their pajt faivrs
end acquaints Hjem that be ij returned from
Cheiiiut Hill, to bis former re/idence, the
Houfc ho. ti Chefnnt hi tureen Front
and Secoml-Wrret,
WHERE he holds himlelf readv to execute
their commands in ev»rv branch of hit
profeflioi, Iruftii g that from a residence in this
city of 35 years he ha 6 it in his power to render
them tflential fervire, afltiring them that his
commiHion (hall be as luw as any in l own.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, VefTels, Certificates
of every description and Bill* of Fxehangr,
bought and fokd, thedocketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the (hirtefl no
tice, by the public'* humble servant,
John Shields.
O* Good negotiabU Notei difcountcd
It a low premium.
November 7 3awtf
for s a l e~
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of
Lands at Rock-R»n, or the Head of the
Tide water of Sulquehannah, in Harford coun'v
Maryland, wirrecn is futile seventy-jive Vat. a'
8to» e Mill and 1 an House, with conveniences of
Wattr and other neceffiries for nn estenfive Yard
a Dwclling-Hoiile Kitchen and divert other ufefui
buildings is eroded thereon, some of the land, in
lots well improved, a good Merring rifhery rn the
fhoie. The improving 1 own of Havrt de Grice
it about fix miles dillint anJ vessels apmii g dows
the Rixer, p»fs clafe by the premifc. A conve
ntent fitua ion to get Bark, afiock of which with
the utrnfilti for 1 »rn ty, ard all the hides in the
Va'v *i»ybv had with the Y.,rd. For tern,, s«n).
tojotm Wilfan. Bear Harford Tovrtr, or the Sub
scriber on the pfcmifei
ISAAC WILSON,
I l'h 14*.h UK . W
The owner* of .the fliip Niw-Jemst from
CiiDt nil exnt6k iir.a few days part ef the
Cargo of that vciTcl in town,
—rO.Vi /iT/.VC OF
A general aflortmcnt <?f Silks & Sattins,
Nankeen*, White and Yellow,
Caflia
China Ware a(Tart*4
i Bohe* 1
Souch<mg T£ AS
f ° f clccUcnt
HyCol and | lO Ur * eaß<l Small package-
Imperial ■
r.r tenon «f Sate—appl* at the Store* of
Nicklm bf Griffith^
Src tlald M'Call,
Wm Read £3" Co.
George Plumfled,
dec 16 5
For Sale,
jft tie late dwelling house of Hsnut Hill,
ejquirr,
On Wednelday morning,
(id "January,J
A: 10 o'cl ck'—a t elegant an;l va
luable
Hoi.fcboid Furniture,
Confiding >f
I.arge anil fmill luekwg-gl&fT.t
Cnrp*'t« and curpc'iti*
Chairs. fopha» ;.nd ta* If«, of fapcrior work
msnlhip and in the newest llile
tierondoles, luflre*
A large ?.(T. rrmcnt of plate & plated ware
a number of valuable paintings -
BedsanJ bedding
China aa ! glass ware
St tiotiary, njartlc llabs.and a vai'u ty »(other
article*
FOOTMAN W Co.
dtcenber 76 ndTy
WILL BE SOLD,
At Public Vendue en the 4th day of -.January
next, in the evening,
Two tracts or pieces of Land
Oitoati in the Oate of i tnnefee. ose of then* 1
O lying and being in rhe counrv ei Surii
ner, m the Head waters of FIIhBs ere k, contain
ing one thouland seven hunr & and fourteen,
acre*,and the other fitnac.- in Hawkin cowity, in
the fame (lit', containing five theui-.iti.t acres.
Condition* of sale Wi.i he caih.ru > e paid on the
execution of the deed. Inlorni. relative to*
the title* maybe had on -ipplicatior. To Jslhua B.
Bond, no —, corner of High and .sixth llrceta,
fhilad.lphia.
Shannon Polk, auctioneers.
decembcr 26 y
S3* All persons iudebtedto the Eflata
of losfifH Anthonv, fen. deceased, are re*
quelled t» make immediate payment: —And *ll
those who|ha■ e any demand* against said ellate,
aredefired to produce them legally attested to
the fubferihers far fettl^ment.
JGBIAH HEWES, }
JOHN MORTON, £ Executory
JOSEPH ANTHONY, )
Decernl er 16. dtf
lo be Let, jor one or more years
In Pear, near Third-street
A new Brick Coach-House,
Will contain two carriages and a chair, »uh tl
complete Stable for four .horfru —apply to
PETER BLIGHT,
Dock-flreet.
dccember 26 diot
•- Malaga Wine,
In quarter ( aUs—for sale by
Philips, Cramond (5* Co.
dee *6 3t
Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
Bank of the United State* for the renewal of
the following certifiers of Bank flock, flan din*
in the name of Hclgfon Atkir.lon of London,
will, h were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
perfom concerned arc desired to take notice.
No. 2474, iflued in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3° z o> iflued in Leu of 11055, and
11°$?, for 3 (hares— 7 (tares.
THOMAS M EUEN &fCo.
ncv - »» - d.trn
Englifli wrought Nails.
Imported in the Jbift Molly and D ana, from
Uv if roo L.
Calks of Nails,
CONSISTING of w. gd, iod, nj, ai ,d
aod, flat points fuita.bie for the lout hern
market—64, Bd, iod, nd, andaod, finedrawn
r P« aifo t 9 3, 4, and 6 clonrt—fprigs—
luckt—ftupptr nails—fhcdthtjig najls,
FOR SALB BY,
Robert Denifon, junr.
Insurance Company of the state of Pennsyl
vania.
THE S TOCKHOLD.ER3 ?re hereby notified
tha* an elca«.n fer thirteen Direitors to serve for
0»e year, will be held at the Cumpaw". OBke *
on M»nday tfce fourteenth day of January next at
Eleven O ek>«rk. '
JAMES S COX, Prefi.'ent.
Jtl 4 .J
NOr 1 CE.
AI.L persons having drtmnd* Inftme
and Bacon,(formerly this
are requelled to deliver their account, properly
attested, to e,th, r o t,e fubferihers, „„ or P bc .
fore the filth day of January next, a* a dividend
will the., he made «f all the tftate afT.gned to
them According to an agreement made at
ke meeting of th. creditor*, the account, arc
n ISt'l T » ' n,Crrft " the y or,K'nal
ly flood before the alignment.
AMhedivdendw.il be made upon the account*
bv « f ti,nc h " ein
i n ; thl 'nnybe rffirred a terwards must of
cnurl* be excluded.
■) Aflirnrrt
Robert kainf.y > J '7
lilCff. R. SMITH ) Wine & Bacon
47 ' rndt*T
No.
[Volumi XIV.General Orders.
''HE OtUccr- 01 tut militia of the City and
Oi unty of Philadelphia, are rcq-iefted to
alTcinble at the.S:ate-liou<e, on Tuesday tbe lit
day of January, at it o'clock A. M —thence to
proceed to pay the •omplimejjt. of the feaf.n to
Prafident of the United States.
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOSIAH H ARMER, Adjt. Gen.
«Ue. 18.
Detaivare iff Schuylkill Canal.
'"I "'HP. Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
X El*«Slion <or Prefit?er.t and Managers, soT the
ensuing > ear, will be held at the Company's OlSc",
on the tirlt ie>onrf dsy in January nt it, at ten
o'c'ock in t)te forenoon.
Susquehanna Js* Srhn\lkil! Canal.
THE Stockholders arr hereby notified, that the
Eleiuon for freliiitnt and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will bn held at the Co upjny's Office, on
tRe rtrti fecond-i ay in Janmiy next at ten o'clock
■ M.
GEO. WORRALL, fec'y
to Delaware & Schuylkill Canal Compar.y.
dee r.9. dte
Bank of Pennsylvania,
December 17th) 1798.
NOTICE is'herehy rnvrn to the Steekholder" of
the Flink of Pttn r ylvania, tliat an F.ledion
of Nineteen DIRECTORS, to IVrve for one year,
will he held at che Bank, on Monday the fourth of
February )i«xt; at jo o'clock.
JUNoTHAN SMITH, Cafllier.
' y.xtratl from the seventh SeHion of the AB of
Incorporation.
" id. Not 11101 e ch;ni fourteen of the
¥>iTe&or* eleiSed by the Moekliolder< and actually
ftii Ific-..exclvflve of.the Prcfident.'f .allbc eligible
/or tkc uext .fuc ceding y<;ar ; hut the Directoj
who (hall be Pie jdent at the time ol an elc&ion,
may alway» btrtrcleAed."
• '■ '■ ''■ ' dr 4 F
• " J '• ™ ' ' •* * 1 * •' • * •
Philadelphia Population Company.
THE fliare-holders are hereby
BotiPed, thrt an ele<sliun f r r rrelident, Managers
and ol her ui&cers for the ensuing Jcar. will be
heUlat the Coaipaiiy'i office, no. 53, north Fourth
flreet, on Wtdnd'day the 9th of January next, at
Ii o'clock. -
Sol. Msracle, Stc'ry.
dec. 27. dtm
NOTICE.
T*C COPARTNERSHIP OF, j
HUDSON iff YORKE, e ,'.;
i- this Jr.y.diffolved by niui.u?l,cpn£cnt. ,A,il.per
fonii indebted to faii firm are retjuerfeil to make
imuictiiate payment;—
■lands are rcquciled to prrß'wf them far settlement
to WIf.LIAM Hudson, uho>is dutyauxhorSf«d
to adjutt the fastie. . rl: n jsl
REMOVAL.
WILLAM HUDSON,
H removed from No. (4, north Front street,
to No i, Chcfnut, near the corner of Front, (to
the ft«re formerly occupied by Mr. Jodk Mil
ler, junr.)
Where he has for sale '-on his usual lory terms,
an CKtenfive afpirtmcnt of
DRY GOODS.
December 18 djw
Ibe Subscribers,
Have lccei'ved by the Clothier from Liverpool
A consignment or TtuCarts or
Well Assorted Buttons,
A tout tol. flerling tach Cafe, which they will
difp- fe ii per package, on liberal terms.
Mcdfivd & WUlis.
No. 78, Norrh Front near Arch-ftrect.
WANTED,
ABOUf fifty Casks of
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
Apply as above.
FLOUR, FOK SALK,
DELIVERABLE at New-Caltle or Port
Penn.'by
LEVI HOLUNGSWORTH k SON
Jrc 19 ' daw
NOTICE.
THE rublic ara cautioned not t® trust any of
the belonging to the Sweiliib Snow Maria,
on my account
Ham Qlof Kick, master.
Ac 29 _ H
14 Pipes Madeira Wine,
suit SALK BY.
Croakl' Stevenson,
No 4, South Waler-ftreet. '
d.-c 11 £_ 1
6» "ffiURSDAY, the id.'jfaunary, !
at 6 o'clock in the eveinng,
A*. Befsou & YorkfJs Auftion-Room,
No. South Fro»t-flrec%
WILL Bl: SOLD,
frn-ifl. but 'ven-cliofeu and-ftlcft Library of '
Medical Books, &c.
together with sundry S«rgical InCrumeiti, t
TIil; property of she late Doilor Francis B. Sayre.
BfcNSON Sc YOHKE. '
dee. 7. (Its
f
On Saturday next, the 79th instant, Jat 7 e
o'clock in the evening, at the Mer- a
chanti Coffee Honfc will be fold for aa
•pproved indoffed note at three month*,
j&jgh- 7HF. BRIGANTINE '
SALLY, 1
V, ITH lierapfarteftaiicei as (he came from Sea*
an i»ventory of which maybe fcenit the auiflion
e«rs, Iheis 160tosif rcgifter w.earureraent, built of <
white oak io the state »f New-Jtrfey, apd now
Kes at Mr. Eyre* wharf in K'nftHgtun.
FOOTMAN erf Ce. attSitnetrs.
*et IA , • , dts
Black India Luitrings. i
A quantity juli received and of tKe firft
rirll quality,
■ro be S/U.D i.ow ion ca.su <
At No.- 55, Ttirth Third y jlrect b\
SAMUEL C. COX.
dec. 28 dtw
•yo hhrfsv Santa Craz Sugar
OF excellent quality._(>n Stores of John Nixon.cfij,
and Co.) A quantity of
SAIL CANVASS t
and a Boa of M>-f, f«r f»le, by
- STEJtHEN KIXGSTQV.
dec 31
, ,/.V i'X'K CT OF A L '■»
tor uie Regulation of
C7//.J/A7; r-v/r;;/: pp. us
- -pHAT pn p'-rfuns (h»ll lullow the hufinefc of
, • Chimney-sweepers, eitbrr !.y th mfclves
\ thcirfTT.i-irs, r-gror« drh«r« wf*hin the ci yof
, Philadelphia, thc"di!triS of Southwjrk, or the
, •owi,fh, t . of the Northern Liberties without hay
ing firfl made app'ication to :he officer hi .ci" aft-:'
directed to he appointed, and having rcgiftered or
canfed to he rcgiltered his or their namU, and the
Dime* of t'-eir lervants, negroes, or others,
- afyref-iid, wi'h a number affixed to tach and every
uch name in a book by the aforefaid officer to be
kept for th'' purpose, and without procuring and
e receiving from the fiid officer a certificate of every
such regillry, containing the number and name, of
every jerfon so entered, tinder the penalty of ten
(hillings for ev T> day lie fhal! follow by himfelf or
caufc>o be foliowed by hi? fervann, negroes, or
others, the fald hnfinefs whichfaic certificates the
raid officer is heTcby enjoined and required tomake
e out under his hand, and to deliver to the pcrfon or
perfo-is who (ball aeply for the time ; and for every
3 such rcgiftry and certificate he receive the funii
fc of feren (billing* and fix pence and no mote.
That every person following the bufioefs
fiid within thefaid<*ty, diftridl, and liberties, (ball
. (if h« follow the employment himfelf) wear »r
(if he employs his fervanti, regrnei or others)
cauft to be worn on the IroiTt of their caps in full
view, without concealment, the ratre numbers
and figures refpeflively, as (halt be io aforefaid
entered in the raid book, and cont ined in hi; or
their riifpe<slive certificates, and none other, in
1 large figures, not !efi than two iache -in length to
' be made »f (Irong durable tin or cooper ; and the j
* persons following the fatd bufmefs by ihemftlvcs, [
or th-ir servants, negroes, others, &c. n:t havi: g
thefaid oumhet fisei on his or thfir caps accord
ing as the law dired* ; »r whea fixed, ftull v/il
fully deface or conceal the fame, or (ball negle&
tft keep thim vifihle, (hill for each and every such
; offence, forfeit and pay the sum of ten (hillinjs so t
each and evry day that he or they (hall so low the
: said employment, no', wealing, or off it ting to
■ wear the said number as aTornfaid.
That if any person or persons undertaking the
oecitpition aforefaid, (hall not, within 48 hours,
alter application to him or them made by asiy of
the inhabitants of the said city, diflriS. or North
ern l.ihriti-s, fwe<p or caufc to be f\ycpt»fuch
chimney or ehimnies as he »r they (hill be requir
ed to rweep, every such person or perfoni so of
fending (hall forfait and pay the sum of twenty
(billing;.
7 h it if die chimney o( any person or perrons
within the said city, diftrid, or libetties, (hall
t iki fire and blare out of the top, the fame not
having been swept within tfce'fpscn of one calendar
month. next before the tin e of taking such fire,
every such pcifon or persons (hall forfeit and ray
th* sum of 40 (hillings—and if any chimney (hall
take (ire . rid blaze out at the top j the fame-hav
ing been Tvvept within o*e calendar month from
th'time oftahing such fire, the p-rfon whdfwepf
the fame eitk£r by fnnrfeK, his ftrvant*, or ne
groes, (hall forfeit and pay the sum if 40 (hillings.
£J"A book for Sthe reglft«ring ti; Chimney
fa eepera is now kept by John llAtNts,:a» di
rected by JfW, at the corner of Cherry Alley
and Flftfi street. ; .
december 18
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING X NEW
UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER,
OR MODF.B»
GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY:
CONTAINING,
A full and authentic dcscrtfrtiin of all. the Em
pires, Kingdoms, Repubics, States, provin
ces, Islands, Cities, Towns, Rivers, Seas,
Bays, Gulfs, and Harbors, in the known
•world.
LIKEWISE,
The Government, Cujlams, Manners, and Re
ligion ofrbe inhabitants ; <wmany inter
filing particulars relative to 'Trade', Manu
factures, and Natural Citriosit^s.
ffr JOSEPH SCOTT,
AUTHOR OF THE
UNITED STATES GAZETTEER. •'
The advantages <w.'jrrb this tvork possess#
over every fubliintian of the kind, are, \
ift. IT will contain Mefcriptionj of many
thousand places, which are not foi*d in any of !
our Gazetteer*. 1
id. The uew political divilions which have '
taken place, in thoi'e countrie* of Europe, fji <
confequencc of the French revolution ; whi'lft ]
a due regard will be p,iW to. the old dWifions, ;
for the lake of thoi'e who read History. •
.■jd. The account of feverai thaafjnd places, «
wilj be more copious than is found in any other
similar work.
4th. Many errors in former publications will 1
be corrected, relative to latitude, longitude, t
fituarion, and extent of towns and counrries. i
jth. With tn that part of the « oik 5
which relate, totht United States, the author f
has received upwards of fix hundred letters,
and is da ly receiving more, from gentlemen of '
the firft information, in different parts of the
Union, which will enable him to give a much a
more copious ai»d correfl topographical account •
of our count iettowM, rivers, foil, produce, t
and natural curiosities, than has ever been uub
lifced. r J
CONDITIONS. I
}• 7f >****? Univerial Gaietteer viKl bepprint
ted on fine paper, with a handsome type, i n r
odtavo* ' 1
11. It will be romprifed in thirty, or thirty-
two number., of 56 pages each. *
111. Each number is to be a quarter of a dol- 1
Jar, to be paid on delivery. j
JV. In the eourfe of the publication
five map, will be delivered. A'.lo, two plr es, r
and aßrtmomy. -j
The , work be publifted with all pof- C
fible expedition. r c
VI. A lift of the.fobferibers names will be *
annexed to the work. c
« ;
■ 55 — !2_ i
No. 128, j
The ftuth-eaft corner of Market and Foutk 1
recti, -v <
JACOB COX, <
TTASi just received by the late arrival, from '
f 7 ,ar S«» genera! and elegant ag. <
foitment nf the mod fc ,
Fashionable Merchandize I
«nih, e \~ Tbt '> f which '
will be Qilpofed ot, wholesale and retail, at re- <
duced prices tor calh.
dfr " "> aawtf i
Philadelphia ar.d Lancaster Turnpike Road
Company,
THE STOCKHOLDERS
A RE hereby notified.that anEUaionfor Tre-
J.X Ui.ent, Managers an 1 other ofllc.r. for tKe
enfijjng year, will be held at the Company's'Offi«
on Mondiy tfit 14th January next it ten o'clock
' Ws.GOVETT, Secretary. '
afcu 4 vv I
%l)t <£>asettt*
P H I L A JJ - L. i' H I A ,
SAimn.4 Y EVENING, DECEMBER i<)-
'
United Jrifhmen.
: Far f!v foUwittg di&ioslfrft, ike P.'.blic are j
r m-Phtd to Mr. QqhhetK
F Tlv %0t I Heard o4 the fcyiftence of. a So
-1 ciety i-f I'nitcJ Mftftwi 'berie, v/;u by a
• jx-in■d paper (a eopy'bf wSish the reader
: will f* b>elaml-bye.)\lated.tlie iSth Dec.
! lait,' ajtiil.fi rued Jj>. REYNOLDS. It was
akqldpO? in a piece of pap-r add idled to me,
and was l?ft & unknown hand, at the
' hfttifb of a person in Market-street. It was
on the i oth of January thut I received this
paper, tnd hi about three %«ls afterwards,
the plat of tKc confpiracv was conveyed to
\n? throigh the fiftfte cmrthct
ThW Wan, which is ea'lh-d a'constitution,
ispirited in ai'm .rt oftavo pamphlet, bearing:
date the -Bth oFAfiigull last. Tlie imprint
imports, jftatit was printed at Philadelphia,
for the f<ciety ; but the Printer's-name is ve-
Iry caiitiaUly'-oroittcd. The perfnn who en-
I c'lofed ijp the pamphlet, has indeed, written
in the lJKirgin, th; name of a'printer, who,
from tmwmainaus- 1 publications vJhich have
come from his press, I make no doubt was
really the'nan j but this ev\deiice is too weak
for me to proceed upon J? , publilhing his
name tf> tjje world, ?s. guilty pt an offence,
which amounts'to trea'fon against the United
States. He it foiloyfs the Jj/jd of the coitpi rafj.
Dkf\jatATtd» and CossriTvrtoH
Of the American Society of '
UNITED IRISH M E N.
%
Philadelphia - Printed for tlie. Society,
August 8, i 797*
DECLARATION.
«-<. . • J
Six lundred years have pall, si ace division
and rediiced Ireland to colonial fubi'er
viency : die d'tvificji of her people Have ever
fiace.i:bj?£tc<l them •■to the lalh and to the
goad of a foreign tyrarfny ; i tyranny morie
odious than Afiatii defpotifim.
■ln,t,ur day and generation we have fteri
and we have lelt; it" is not neceilary, there
is not now time to count over the lung black
catalogue ot her baleful wrongs; thert; is
not now time to argue and to-complain.
THIS IS THE TJMK TO ACT ; w aft
with energy- we muflaA with union : Irifh
nien are united at" home, we will not be dis
united abroad. • ■ - -.-■- •
Oir love for ireeiiom has not been leficned
by vhat we Haye experienced. oLits eifefts,
or for Ireland Ijy pur diftancej XTftder the
I'acKd influence of-devotiQit.tD the Utliotr,
akd Li3krtv of ALL men,
we gladly embrace the fclemn ties by which
we wi(li to be b.junu to one another, And
hereby formourlU.yes into an allocation un
der the- name of; ••■ -f- ■ ■ : 2i.
r a. e
AMERICAN SOCIETY
UNITED IRISHMEN.
■ n Adopting the following
CON STI TU TI 0 A'.
. [the declared intention, of procuring
" equality and liberty to ALL men," is a efear
woof Ireland alone was jiot in their view.
But, a# tre go on, we shall perceive that nei
ther that country nor its concerns are at all
included in the objects of thefc people. The
woid Imlund,.lrishmen, kc. are mere l'ub
fhtutes for athnr words, like the cant of the
pick-pockets, according to which a hog means
A shilling, a pig ment a sixpence, and io on.
This wil clearly appear from the articles and
TES T of the precious -constitution.]
Sec. t. That ALL SUCH PERSONS
and fuel only, ftiail be eligible to this Socie
ty of United Irishmen, as Shall have fuffered
in the «?ufe ox or who, bv therf
zeal for THE RIGHTS OF MANKIND,
ihall ha'e rendered themselves dillinguiftied
and wortliy of attachment and truil.
[Thus, you fee, it is not IRISHMEN
alone, wio are eligible to this Society ; but
ALL SUCH PERSONS as shall, according
to theii 'ant, have suffered in the cause of
freedom, or have (hewn their zeal for the
rights of mankind ! ! In other words, «\e
ry. fcsundrel, of whatever nation, provided
his bctn manaded or transported, or has
rendered himfelf worthv of the gibbet, for
some attempt at rebellion or fomc of trea
son, ne- natter under what goverrmxnt or on
what occasion ; or, provided his seditious
principles are so well known and eftabjifhed
as to leave no room to doubt ef his attach
ment tc the cause. Americans then, and
Britons and Frenchmen, and men of every
countrybeing eligible to the foc.ety, can any
o«e be fily enough to suppose, that the con
lpiracy had Ireland m view ? What-had anv
ot these people to do with Ireland ? But
on the Jbfurdity of thi. w (haU have time
to reTna'kby-e-and-bye. Indeed, the TEST
Ail L S,VCS this can-t about Ireland.
A that is neceffiiy to remark on this fec
tlon>\'s» that it provides for the admission of
evjry discontented, factious man in the Unit
ed States : and that the latter part«f it is no
snore than a copy of tjpe qualification clause
the J*cobin Ck»b«t.-P*rij, except that the
Utter requ«d pofitiye proof from every new
member of his having actually committed son*
crime cUserving the halter, while our liberal
canlpirators, it unjust to exclude a
villain merely because he has failed of foccefs
are willing, , n s om e caftj, to admit the inten
tion as eipial m merto thc
r^ C : *' no person (hall be proposed
for admittance but by a member in his JL.
. 3* 1 hat no propofitior. for the ad
romance of a member fha'l l>e received, unlets
■it he bonded by another member prefer
and that it (hall li We be neceffarv for £
piopofer and seconder, t° vouch' for the
th*r*ftcr and ctrrsNt tS rbe prrfoh
pro ; in tlef.rt of tfbith, uo eleiticn
Ilia 11 take place.
Sec. 4. Members (hall have the privilege
of propoling, or lecpnding the propolil
of candidates, in any fcft'on* as well as
t.iat to whklrthey belong.
Sec. 5. A candidate proposed agj -ejble to
the ad, 3d, and 4th feftioiis, fliJ.ll not lie
bsdlotted: for, until the next meeting after
that in which lie has lieen proposed, lunlefs
known to two-thivds orthe members prelent
(two black beans to rejeA witliout a rcafon,
and one with reasons) hut upon iiis election,
lie Ihall be immediately admitted, uitder the
following forms -
Sec. 6. Before a person elecltd (hall be
confide red a number, the Preiident (hail put
to him the following question ; an olfirm:'.-
tive to the ifi, sth and 6th. and a negative
to anlwer to the ad, 3d, and 4th, Ihall be
indii'penfable to' admilFion as such :
Sec. 7. I. Do you believe a free form of
govcninent, and an uncontroled opinion on
all fubjefts, to be the common rights of all
the humaH species.
11. Do you think the people of Ireland
are In polL (lion of tlieferights.
HI. Do you think the government of G.
Britain ever was, or is now disposed to ac
knowledgp, or aJTent, to the freedom, of Ire
land.
iy ? Dn you think Great-Britain .oug-Jit
of right, to govern Ireland.
V. Are you willing to do all that in you
lies to promote tile emancipation of Ireland,
and the eilablifhment of a republican form
of' government there.
VI. Are you wifling to bind yourfelf, by
a fulerpn obligation, to the principles you
have acknowledged.
Sec. 8. That upon the candidate answer
ing theib questions, as reqvjred by the lixth
ftiVion, the following (liali be admir.iftcred
as a tefl, all present (landing :
I ;.
Ik TES T.
"f A. B". in the presence of tl<e Srpn y :•! y.
■OICINC do most SQ.hmi'Jy swear, that I ivilt,
to the utmost of my power, promote the
emancipation 'of Ireland from thi tyrmny of
the British government 8-—That I will use
"he like endeavors- for ttftreasirtg a'nxf perpet-
the wannest affection all'reli
gious denominations of men, and for the at
tainment of LIBERTY t-nil
TO MANKIND, IN WHATEVER NA
TION I MAT RESIDE. M,rco%xr, Id,
that I will, as far as in trie lies, pro
mote the interest oj this, and every other Sj
ciety of United Irishmen, and of each of'its
members.—and that I will never, from fed r
of punishment*, or hope of reward, dhv f ge
any of its siutnEfs giten to me cts such.
That the TEST of this Society, the IN
TENTION ot>his INSTITUTION, (ifi
ali other refpecls than *s a social body, at
taclied< to freedom), be conlidered as SE
CRET AND INVIOLABLE in all c.t
ies-, but between members, and in the body
of the Society;
!>ec. 9. That nevertlielefs, a member of
the society Ihall not be conlidered as divul
ging its fccrets, who Ihall propound to per
forms disposed to become members, the lenfe
of the fix propositions which precede the test.
[J-Terc-^t.krxt T^..l^ r A ; r n li-t-ft
peel out of light. It is jufl mentioned in or
*i?r to introduce the British government ;
but the initiated is to swear, thit he will do
the utmost of his power for the attainment of
LIBERTY and EQUALITY, to MAN
KIND ; and, thefc efforts does he swear to
make, IN WHAT EVER NATION HE
MA"i RESIDE I Ireland, therefore, if not
totally difmified by the TEST, is no more
contemplated by it than America is, taking
the words in their literal sense ; and we (lull
I<* in the fc-quel, that this blessed liberty
and equality is intended for America alone.
The criminality pf.the purpose and end of
the combination mod amply proved by
the lection that immediately follows the
TESI.—" Ihe TEST of this fopicty and
the INTENTION of the inftitutioo fliall
be kept a SECRET and INVIOLABLE."
—The members may tell the world that it is
a " social body, attached to freedom that
is, they in ly give out that its principles
are friendly to general liberty; they may
represent it as. one of those .collections of in
dividuals that men of sense ufuallv laugh at,
but they must not fay a word about the IN
i ENTION of the institution, nor mujl
they discover the nature of the OATH.
.''. nol Hiug more "were meant than
an aflbciation against. the government of
Oreat Britain, which they rauft well know
would excite contempt and ridicule, v/hv
a.l this secrecy? Why conceal the uatunof
the oath ; and, particularly, why Conceal
the intention of the inditution I
By the 9th Seftjon we fee, that the dis
coveries, made even to thbfe who offer'them
felves as members, are to extend no f.irt'.ier
tnan •' the fenle of the fix propositions pre
ceding ibe TEST." The Tefl itTelf tky
are to know nothing of, "till they have gone
too far to retreat, and then diev Ire bound
not to divulge what they have learnt. First,
the initiated member swears, that he " will
never, from fear ef punishment or bo be of
tewardy divylge any of the secrets, given to
him as such ? aixl then the INTENTION
ol the inftitiifion is immediately given to him
as one of the those inviolable secrets ! If
there were nothing wicked, nothing hiahlv
dark aad in the
jP ' Why ' S dift overv of it
thus guarded againftMen never « Lr tu
nrsbment" for concealing what is not crlmi
nal Indeed this TEST fl lt charac
ter ot the combination : a Test of fecrrcv,
as to thß motives of the mertSbers, is effeiitial
to a conspiracy ; and it. is that -which diflin
gvi(hes this society from " a social body,"
which is the character the-,- wife t o app a-
in the eyes of the world.
This Trst differs from that taken in Ire
land in one particular, which is this : The
irilh teit is confined to giving liberty and
equa it) to Ireland clone ; whereas the initi
ated in the American society fwWirs to make
. * rim 7 in wbeteter country they
*iy re/ide !! i This addition at once ex
ptams the views of the United Irishmen in
thu-couMry ; for, if-tbev had no other ob
before {hem th . ttn th(
why tiiis (Inking fj"
It is now proved, Ifw , r Test?
fpirkcy had for its »l)je ct ' n fo ' thaf this con
crim.nal against th? !av.- s an j thln S %%
the United State/ I *" d S $
before the rr^?T CCml tQ hy
Uitution, as if is caJl.d," s£& °J & Con.
the extent of Wlj Scorer
ConvinttKhe reader that ;« ' not
TK>N, is , «n iSritS
in fevwof b Al j cou n&v
foe the he pj ?.
how aitful the • ' f ° n ' a " d °bferv e
well it« calculated to urW?^ indhow
force i H to actual fervi ce .] S c "UeOcd
fubferibe hk
F> Sec. t n tre T Um **
each member flitff ftfbfcription ©f
payable on the cf adol,a r;
it the member Ke eleffed 7 ' monlh '
any month v *e (hall pay no JOth K
tee ofVitiation for that not** *"
the space of three months thef ' f °'
his fe&ion fl.all thenSfr *
the member, th 9 amount
demand payment and , hat ,n dS'W
"f> his name, and the sum A.. * ~, a * ,t *
Ikly read by the trafflrc- of'tj? fA- pnb *
which he may be W ontwlt, 'V°
ceding meetings
be not paid on the third nradin- ! iIT
exclud«l the fcciety.
bers, upon paying ,1! srr , 3rs d
usual contributions that were w,™KV > ■
«* exclulion, may apply
vertheiels, that this rule (hall not extend to
such members as flail declare t!*ir mahilitv
to pay, , n reply _to the fecmary, h. an J.
thentit form, and where local
may render their attendance impoto, or
highly inconvenient.
An - V fleeted iy ballot
whoftau not attend three fuceeffive mftt .
m 2**> Ss
or y 3 £ officers or sections.
Sec. , inere ft Vbe a pftf lt Je„t anj fc.
CI i!l .! cach fect,on clr &«<i, by ballot,
who (hall continue in office fix week's—the*
ilull te re-eligible after a period equal to
that, .during which they were in office.
Sec. a. Hiat a treasurer shall be appoint
ted by ballot, who shall continue in ofßfc*
for three months, and (hall not be re<li g ib!c
unt.t the expiration of three months.
Str- 3. The fetretary (hall hart: power,
at tlie desire of :h« prefiident, to convoke ex
tra meetings.
Sec. 4. Each ie<fkion (hall meet vietklj rr
oftenerin special cases. • ■
Sec. 5. The hours of meeting (half fv «
fev<4n o'clock from the 25th September till
2 Jth March, aed at eight o'clock from tr*
25th March til! the 25th September.
Sec. 6. The chair (hall be taken at the a.
bore hours precisely, if there (hall be »«
1 nicmbets present. ~JZ" ' ■-
dent, or any otl.cr officor,-tlie' -
call amrmljer to pro. ; «m.
Sec, &: .-.That upn:f tht pi#!ideiit taking
; the cjiavr, he (hall (iirett 'tlw* (?cre"br>' to
read the minutes ©fcthe preening nwetihg-.
1 Sec, -9. The roll (liaU-he.tailed previous to
e»ery adjournmcat. • :
See, ic. That arfd the no*
iijinatio/i, or initiition of s, flwll
preoeds ferther bnfinefs. '
Se?.. 1 ft.Thaton.open vote* the'Prefident
(hall hare a carting voice, and when he fpcaW
to a motion,, be lhall.vacate the chair.
Sec. i 2. Tiiat every motion-flial! be made
ftanding f (hail'.be delivered tatha prtfident
or chairman in writing it required ; muflbe
fccoaded by anptber member, also (landing,
before it (lull be received by the prefidefft 2
any swtter of peculiar importance (hall firft
be debated in a committee of the whole.
Sec- 13. The mower of a queftirm' (hall
| liave liberty to l'peak in reply i but no other
(li»lt (peak more than «nce, but in explana
tion 011 die fame fubje&> except in a com*
; mittee of the .whole.
Sec. 14. In matter of order, the preCdent
or chairman lhall decide finally. •
Sec. 15. That in each feitiqo atommittte
' (hall lie appointed to (eie& extracts from pd
\ litical works, t.i be read oocafionaHy.
Sec. 16. That fines (hall o* levied fordiß
! orderly behasriour, but not exceeding fifty
I cenu eacU, which dne (hali be
tfie prefideut or' chairmw v ar.d in cafe df
ajiptai, be ckcided by. the - majority cf meo
bei*s
SecL <7. No perfoa; flail irtirnipt the
ch.airijiaa or any ether meabeT, while fpta**
. ing, uolefcA o the po.nt of order ; repetition
of interruption coivj aiy to this rule, toiu'o.
I jed the diforderfy perloii'to I'uch
i besides a liiie, as the society fL»il think ht.
Extreme diforierly behavjour .(hail fubjtd
1 the offender to expulGon, at the will ot tirte
fourths of the menioeri present.
Sec. iS. A memberabßiitiu^hwufclf fros
his section three nightsfucceiSveU', (without
acquainting it of the caufei" ' •
means of another meraber, who /nail (Lo ire
his Mfyftrt that he is ntitV.ritd by fucli
meniberi to make aa apology for Jii«» a J* u
offering some fufficient reason for b is ,l! "
fence) ihaO be liable to a.fn? of fifty, cents,
and on refv.fing to pay such sne (hall no '_ _
entitleil to vote in his section, or tranla
anv other duty in the Gx.it •}' u.-.'-, he ■
have paid hi 4 fine.
Of Certificates.
See. 1. Certificates (hall be proviß
onally granted to members «* tlie
' removing from their vicir.a S e. which lhail *
i ligned by the pre{klent and fccretar ; o: uk
feflion to which the members belong..
Sec. 2. A men.her going to a
Country, or t« a distant jiart ol t.ie _ n .'
States, (hall give a veeh's fu-tite J bis. ■« *
tiori, lut'ln urgent cases tie coinvitjet °J
,'cfecv, of hi< leftic ■n, .mi' ' ,
' tif.cate.Sec. 3. N«- r is tn * certifi - f"
«a,e, but iu the fort joing c„f f<
Sec. 4- tl slt an tasir return, on
must re-deliver their certificates to the prcfi
dent or fecretan-, in the prefer** the fct- th
ticn to which tlicy belong. .
Of an Enlarged Organization: lit
Sec. 1. That when any I'caion fhallcoil- co
fift of eight roentbdiKn a city or large town, an
it {liall fcparate into two fcttioHi : country or
tcctiMS roay Jfcpara** as their peculiar cir- to
cun.fciaccs may render expedient. <ll
Sec. 2. That any section, state re
Or the general .executive committee,Uu\l have ro
the power of apj»oiiuing an agent or agents, m
and i'uayfhing him or them with copies of ft,
the conllitution, for the purpofc of forming
new sections. n(
§ec. 3. Each fe&ion shall, quarterly, make
an exact returfl of the namaj, resi-
dences, and occupations of its members, to its C(
proper state committee, and the state com- p
mittee shall make similar returnsj at like t} ,
periods, to tha general executive committee, m
■Who shall keep an exact remitter of the names f .
thus returned.
Sec. 4. As soon as there shall be two or m
more leftions in any state of the American
union, they fltail be represented in a state
coisi.n-ttcc, i" the following manner, viz— j.
wi'.cn a feition iuail amount to eight mem
bets, they (hull fend aus delegate to fa id com-
mittee : when to twenty-two, two delegates ;
and when to thirty-three, three delegates,
who fWI not he .re eligible uotil they have
been oiit of oiHee» for a time, equal to their
tifa of fcrVice—two-thirds of whom lhall "
fprro a quorum. The state committee shall "
meet monthly, or oftener, if uecefl'arji, and .
fce partially repewed by a member froiu-each ir
fcction every raontli. 0
Sec- ;. Distant seci.ozs. (hall have the a
power of ' 4pj>owtins - persons to repfefent ®
tfifm 4a refpccti-Ve. state cainnntteeji,
from ameng their brethren whot- local fitna-
<io»a niay render attendance more cotive- P
rient. , . - rv , - k
See. 6' section shall appoint a com- P
nrtktec as, fpcrery and correspondence, to
communicate the state committee, which 1
shall be regulated in like manner.,. It {hall ''
fcllo eleft, e-very fix weeks, a delegate, and 1
suit-delegate to attend the meetings of neigh-
bo«i(jt)g Tectums and report f
Sec. 7. That the Secretary of every ieftion
(hall, whena member takes his feat, and sub- 1
•feribes tlie test, take down his place of reii- 1
dtnee, which (hall he carefully tranfinit to '
Ike'committee if secrtcj thereof, who shall f
diviile the feAions into sub-sections of tight f
members who may live contiguous to one '
another ; that every eighth man shall have I
the (barge of the other t \eft numbers, to <•
worn tlrcin in loses I>f urgency, or to extra- '
ordinary meetings of the fedtion : thefecret I
torn mit tee or Secretary of the fefkion, shall 1
by warning those eighths, contider themselves '
is warning the whole Section. <
Sec. 8. When two or more state com- <
mitiees have been formed, they shall elec\ <
♦v.-o of their members from each state, shall go ;
out of office, by lot, and the reft in rotation, i
and be replaced by a new member every three i
juxoirUw, and not he re-elegible until a period 1
equal tft their term m- -i
executive iiyt m ittee is to possess the direction j
of the great interests as the -abate sencty, I
grid keep up a constant communication'with 1
ijJje committees of the different states.
Sec. Thegeneril executive committee i
fliall when their number exceed four, eleft 1
from among themselves, a committee of fe- 1
erecy and correspondence, cotififtingof t-hret
membe-ru, ,one of whom shall go ■ut of of- <
sice every three months, and shall be reduci
ble after a period equal to their time of fer- j
vice. 1
Sec. i<>. The general executive commit
tee shall affe'rable an often as the intere 's of
the ioftitution demand, or when required so j
to do by the committee of arty state. i
Sec. 11. There shall bt a Treaftirer for 1
each state, to worn the Treafnrer* of the
SediitKi* are to return quarterly payments 1
and accounts. Each of the State treasurers
*re, a. like periods, to make similar returns
to the' treasurer appointed by the General |
Executiv committee, who is to continue
in office tfiree months, and ta be accou'-ta- |
ble to their committee of secrecy add cor- 1
re''pond e nee ; lie (hall alfei, if required, ex
hibit his accounts to the secret committee 1
of any f-ftion The State Tre»furer fkall
be appointed by the State Committee. 1
Sec. 12. Every officer, and every mem
ber of a committee, is responsible to the
V«dy of whom he was eleeied, and liable
t« any panifhuent they may, on account of
delinquency, ioftift.
Sec. i-J. No person shall be eligible to
hold two offices within his refpe&ifre feAiou.
Sec. 14. That when the State Commit
tee*; or tKe General Executive Committee,
or a majority of the feftions recommend a
revision of the preceeding constitution, it
shall take place.
[Now, leaving the mere formalities and
other trifling thi<sgs aside, let us plan and
look at it in its sub ft ance. It is very pro
perly called, an '* enlarged organization," for
it embraces an extent no less than that of
the whole union.
First, we fee, that every restless wretch,
of whatever nation, is admitted ">n any sec
tion of the society, and has his name, place
of residence, 3cc. exre'lled on its lift ; but,
left the affen blages should bee >m? unwiel
dy, or ala ming to the magiftratts, these
feAiotis when they get to a certain strength
feptrate, and the d.tached parts form new
ones, just ai bees swarm when the hive is
over-crowded —The troops being thus en
rolled in the fettions, the next thing is to
render them manageable. Were thef-£ions
fubjefled to no Superior command; were
tbey to remain scattered over the country
■without any common head, they would be
like so many independent companies without
a commander. But these troops have not
bern raised to He in idleness, and tierefore,
a mode of uniting their efforts is provided.
Fhe fe&ions in every state are to fend dele
gates to form a State Committee, aid th: fe
4xtees State Committees are to fend dele
gate! t/» Vnrm a Gtneral Ex*currrs Com- o
rntfUt;" &iiJ ihis is the whole broufrli* -to b
•, O "
one point. , t!
So much for the organization. Now for e
the operate part of the p] n. tl
" The general ExECUTItF. Committee" ti
(which I have tot the leatt doubt is now
litt ng in Philadelphia) keep* up a constant o
communication with the iitate Committees, c
and from it, the whole f«« iety, or rather b
army, receives ' dire&ious" when and how II
to a£V. It has (teams made to it of the
fitimberi enrblled in eachStatc,ofthe na-nes,
reudeiice, and occupation, of the pcrfons en
rolled j by ti.is mean it is at all times infor
med of it* flrength, and of whete that I
ftrfctigth lits; j
When it is necefTary TO ACT, the G"- t
nfcral Executive Committee are to tlifpatch i
their orderd tQ.the State Committee; these to I
their fe&ions, aid these again (by their t
Committee of secrecy) to their sub feßhttr. a
Here the orders resell the ufiivc trtops, and c
that their may be no confufion in their *
movements, these sub fcSions consist of only )
eight men each,all living near one another, £
and one of these eight is a fort of non com- i
mission officer, who, (to use the very words t
of the confpiratars) is to " h«ve the charge <
of the other seven, and is to WARN them I
IN CASES OFURGENCY"!! ! s
Now, 1 appeal 'o any man of common
Tense, whether tin's infernal combinatiou czn
possibly have any other objed in view than '
an infurreftion agaitift the government cf
America. What " cafei of urgency" can a
rise in thit country, what oppoutunity can
offer itfelf here, for overturning the Brtijh ■ ,
Government tn Ireland ? Where thevi:lai< s, | '
Mndeen furnifned with wing/ ; could thev like
other birds of passage, afTemble in a flock
and take their flight to Ireland ; then the
oftenlible motive of the afTociation would
have fomethiag like plausibility about it ;
but, as they are, this ostensible motive is a
palpable absurdity, a mere trick which has
been invented *n order to inveiglt ignorant
persons to take the TEST* and, in cafe of
desertion, to avoid the punishment which
the law awards to traitors and fpia\ or at
\tffr , to leave room for doubt and conten
tion in the courts of justice; a bad chance
b. ing better than none and ten years impri
sonment being better than death.
That this conspiracy it intended to aid
the cause of Frame, it is hardly necefiary to
infill on ; every one must perceive it at the
firft glance. What can these ragged ruf
fian* expett to do alone 7 How can they alone
support their current expencrs, exclusive of
" cases of urgency "oi arms, ammunition, &c.
&c. By an attention to the financical part
of their plan, you will perceive, that the
money they colleft from the members is
barely fufficient to' defray the charges jvhich
must neccfiarily be incurred for rooms to
meet in. Who is to pay for printing their
CONSTITUTIONS, their CERTIFI
CATES (which I hear is from an engraved
copper plate) ; who is to pay for the time
and travelling expences of all their delegates
from the Sedtions of the State Committees,
and from them to the General Executive
Committee at Philadelphia ; who is to pay
-q tij imt scsi» itiatl forty
fand dollar* annually ? Who hlit those "who
boalt of tbtir *• Diplomatick Skill," atid of
their " powerfulfaßion in ihis country ; those
who have long had in pay the leading patriots
in Ireland, and who have constantly fup.or
ted a hireling press in each of the principal
cities of America ?
Next, observe thr.t the dofeft intimacy
exist* between the fans-culotte French who
are h re, the molt distinguished of the emi
grated United Irilhmen, and a base Ameri
can printer, notorimtfly in the service of
France. Observe too, 'hat NAPPER
TANDY went from New-York to France,
amfthat the conspiracy, as appears by its
date, was not formed, 'till after ivc heard *f
his arrival at Paris.
The leaders in this conspiracy are the ve
ry fame rerfons, who conduced that in Ire'- 1
land. When a feftion of their deluded parti
zans, in that country, were taken unawares
by the no money but French
was found upon them, and this in a retired
patt of the kingdom, where it was impoffi
blc these infatuated wretches could have
come at it through any other channel than
that of the defp.its of Paris and their wicked
agents. And, if a conspiracy could be so
effc&ually paid there, in a country at open
war « i h France, with an alien law vigorou
sly enforced, how easy mud it be for them
to maintain a hired and regularly paid con
spiracy here, when there is no check what
soever to their machinations !
This diabolical plan was formed on the
Bth of August lad; immediately before the
Yellow Fever commenced its rage in
this city ; with ihi* in tiis recolb&ion the
reader will form hi* opinion refpefting the
following, which is a copy of the printed
paper before mentioned,
AMERICAN SOCIETY,
UNITED IRISHMEN.
When the society of United Irishmen
was formed her; mm where found emulau*
, of crouding to the V'fh standard, for the
afpeft «f Ireland then afforded hope that her
wrongs would Soon be redressed.—That
view so consoling to humanity, has fir a
• moment been obfeured ; but it is not ho
nourable to desert a deserving friend in di
stress, it is not honourable to abandon a me
ritorious cause, which, when prosperous we
i have fworti to support.
The society is happy to find, that there
is Hill reason to think, the fire and the
! lc<)urge will not long be exercised aver our
■ brethren with impunity, that the tyranni
■ cal imprifonmen:*, the rapes, the arsons,
the torturers, atid the military murders are
t .ibuutto be a«erg<d, and, that a manly peo
l pie, whom 600 years flavtry could not de
, base, are abwtit to be rcft»red to their rights.
We have cause to deplore the Iwls we have
. sustained, by the djfuafe whichjatcly fuf
e pendeti our meetings; and we are an willing
- to ascribe the prefect neglefl of aiiend*-.-«e
of fume members to unworthy motives— j a
but it is deemed a duty, to notify you, 'tl
that those who m future absent themf lv«, , o
cannot conformably to the 18th article of pi
(he Cont'itution, be regarded as beloni>i' g h
to ihe afloci tion. I
The itxt meeting will be held at 7 o'clock I s
on t"e evening of tl>e ;ill in ft. in the Afri- h
can school roitn. Willi'»g*» all<-y, which lies tl
bet ween Third, Fourth, Walnut and Spruce hi
llrects. p
Signed hy order of the comjii'tee- 1*
Js. REYNOLDS, iw
Philadelphia, Dc. 'B, 1797 I p
This notice, 1 would have the reader be- | n
licve. I hare not publila'd without good | a'
pruof of it bei-g signed by REYNOLDS, ! o:
the seeker of •' repose." His name is ft
written, and 'he hand writing ha* not only "
been compared with the Ggnature to a let- q
ter of his, now in my poffefSon'; but has h
also been compared and verified before one h
of the ju 'ge» in this city. All that is now „
wanted is, good proof of the person wl>o *
printed, or who authorized printing* the plan
of the confpii aey, which is called the 'ON
STITUTION, nnd if any American, ««-
tivt or adopted, is in pofiefli m of the means
of producing f ch proof, and negU&i to
produce it, he is to all intents and ourpofea
a TRAITOR.]
Bp this Dap's £oail.
NEW-YORK, December 28. 1
Capt. Miles, of the schooner Royal FuG- E
lier, arrived yefterdav from Halifax, has fa- E
vored us with the Royal Gazett: of the 4th ~
ififtant. j.
The Royal Gazette m-ntions the arrival -
1 at IlaliLx of the Britiih Packet in 49 days
from Falmouth. She brought no papers la- C
t;r than the 9th of Oftober. The Packet "
failed for this port 9 days before captain
who law on his passage a vjfftl dif
maft-d, which it is probable was her. The
Royal Gazette contains, a variety of foreign
matter of old dates. We from it such
paragraphs as we believe have not appeared
in our prints : \
Rnstadt, Sept. 22. 1
The Deputation Of the Empire, in the
68th fitting, pafied a ccmchnum, which dc- 1
clares, th *t they will not make any further 1
conceflions to France. The French minis- 1
ters have privately communicate} to the '
members of the cosgreft, that their govern
ment does not require any further potTeffioii
on the right bank of the Rhine, and that
they desire with the mod fmCere solicitude
the immediate establishment of peace.
Genoa, Sept, 3.
It appears that all CorCcans in the Eng
lifi) service, or such of them as are attached
to thecaufe of Britain, are to unite in the
iJland of Elba. The reason of this is not
known, but it is supposed that an expedition
will be made against the eastern Corsica or
the illand of Rosa, where they kept up a se
cret understanding with the party of Paoh.
The Genoele marine is to have two more
frigate, two corvettes, and two xebeet.
Vienna, Sept. 22.
" The number of prisoners taken by the
English in the late sea engagement, the mod
. terrible that evt;r was fought, wss 3705.
Admiral Nelfoh found it unadvifeable to
take them on board ; but, having disarmed
them, put them on the coast of Egypt, firft
making them take oir oath not to ferye a
gainst England ; but the officers he detained
prisoners of war.
: "On board the L'Orient •which blew up,
was the general war chert of the fleet, Son-
Mining several rnillionsju ready money. The
, Enjrlifh entertain hopes that they fhal'. be able
to find and weigh up' the eheft.
" It is reported, that during tlxthnttfe a
mutual agreement was made, tb cease. firing
for two hours, to give the crews time to take
fume sustenance."
| The French seamen who furyived the fate
of their comrades, and were taken prisoners,
I were made by Admiral Nelson to (wear they
w.ould never serve against England again :
they were then disarmed and set on shore on
the coast of but the French, queers
he detained prisoners on board his ihipi.'
London, Ccf. 9.
Amongst the papers intercepted by admi
ral Nelson is a letter from gen. Buonaparte,
to his brother Joseph Buonaparte, member
of the council of five hundred, and form, r!v
ambafladorat Rome. It contains interesting
details refpefting his expedition, hi! Ktuatiori,
: and the confluences of the ckftruft.On of
: the French .fleet. He complains bitterly of
the French government, which deceived-fiim
in regard to the difpotitton of the inhabitants
: of Egypt, and the means of Pucceeding in
his enterprize. He re pre lints his Jltuaticn
as extremely critical, from the-dimitiution of
his army, by difeafes,by the battles he is con
tinually obliged to fh-ht, by the detachments
required topreferve the chain of communi
cation between Cairo, Rofetta, and Alexan
' dria, by the garril'ons of these towns, atrd
' adds these words—" My poiition is luch
: that I can neither advance nor'retreat."
r Thii letter contains a variety of reflections
1 critical as well as philofophicaT, by
1 the condition in which the general finds hira
" ielf, and which Wilf reader tiie publication of
it extremely iuterefting.
A lett«r from on officer of the Vanguard,
: add re fled to his filler at bath, dated off the
mouth of the Nile, August 13th, contains
: the following intelligence The admiral
: is in a fair way of recovery, though there
r will be a large fear on his forehead, but *ll
■ honorable one. Most of our French prizes,
> together wjth some of our own fbips, l.tve
■ us this day for Gibraltar or Fngland. We
- . remain here a few weeks longer, with five
■ fail of the lire, to cruize of Alexandria—
■ after which we go to Naples t® refit. The
: admiral talks .of iVeinp; England in a few
• montfas. We have taken ffit*
J patches, which the admiral irforms me <-. re of
: tjie utmost confrnuence. He and *he -.'hole
J' niv wifli themselves agai:> in Frlr.Ce ? for ! 0
'the Arabs keep them in pervrt 1 !.!! aeration I
on fhorr, and we cut th m off iVoni til tup' t '•
ply by fen. Provisions are very force, with | a.,
hiul. Son* letters of inferior co.niifquence, P'-
I vrefutnc, have been (hew:i me by admii;d th
Nelson ; one of them from citizen TsJ! en to pr
his wife in France, points out everv h udlhip tl
tlxy have er.countered.—Everv Ftencl'.man
here a Herts, that the Direftory wifii BiioOa
parte dead, for till then there will tt fto
peace, and on that account they sent him
with this army. I read a letter.from Buona
parte's son to his mother—he states, that lie
never (aw Buonaparte fp low spirited as he is gr
at present. CeDerttl Berthler fays, in one
of his letters, that this is the firfl time the £
great general lias been foiled, and he fear: a
revolution in the army will be the confe
qu nee. The late victor)' of the
•he favs, is tlie mofl fatal blow that France y(
has <x])erienced during this war."
mi in r 1 •* w
%\yt <3asCttc» d
■ ■■ ■ ■ —* —
c
PHILADELPHIA, «
tl
SATURDAY EVENINO. DECEMBER 19 0
PRICES OF STOCKS. „
PuiLACSI-l'HiA, 21 p
Si* Per Gent. 16/6
Three Per Cent. I■/
Deferred 6 Prf Cent. 14/" n
S \HK United States, i? percent. I
Pennfylvania, 25 ditto c
■ North America, 50 ditto
Ihlurai.fc comp N. A. (hares ss ditio
■ ' - PemtfyWar.ia. Oiare*, At ditto c
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
On London, at joiiaj-s 60 f'
——— at 60 days 57J 0
at 93 ctay<
Amsterdam, So Jay#, per guilder, 31 cents
C
FELLOW-CITIZENS, * „
New years eve is approacliin?, v/!jcn it is 1
feared that the idle practice which has for I /
loaie time past prevailed in the city and li- i a
berties of fhootiHg out the old year, and 1
(hooting in the new on?, as it is abiurdiy t
Called, will be repeated, which has often 1
been attended witU dangerous and alarming <
confcquences. Ttieiefore iegril eiKlea- I
vor fliould be used to check the eril a fid to | r
fupporc the violated laws of our country in t
thi' instance so frequently insulted. The i
citizens are earnestly requtftvd to Ifnd their |
aflirtance to bring to punifliment the offen- ' ]
ders ; and the constables and watchir.eii are <
particularly enjoined to be vigilant and ac- t
tive, in arresting such daring violators of the '
public peace. It is Gncerely to be hoped ;
that the civil officers and other good citizens [
in the county will afuft the city police to
carry into effeft so ulefufa regulation. ,
ROBERT WHARTON, mayor.
December 29.
The printers will serve the public by in* |
ferting the above daily in their papers until
new years eve.
CONGRESS.
i Yeftcrday in tlie H-life of Representatives
,of the United States,-the question on aiftte
-1 ing to the relohr.ion proposed by Mr. Grii
| wold, was tu*.en and decided follows :
t YEAS.
Mefirs. Baet, Baldwin, Bartlctt, Bayard, 1
Brace, Brooks, Bullock, Champlis, Chapman,
Oaj, Cochran, C:a;ji, ])ar,a, bavis, Dennis,
, .Dent, Edmont'. Evans., A• Foster, D. Foster,
. J. Freeman, Glen. Goodrich, Gordon.Gregg',
• Grilweld...Grow, Kafitifl- Harper, Hartley.,
; Hindmart, Keimeis, Ho'fincr. linlav, Jones.'
Lymr.n,Machii-,"Matthe\vsjMorgarij Morr?, 1
I Otis,'!'. Parker, J. Parker, Pinc'kney, Reed. '
r Rutledgc, Scliureman, Sewaii. S.l-.epard, Sin- :
tj nicKfon, Skinner, N. Smith, Sj^iiirht,
Sprague, Thatcher, Thomas, Tliomibn, Til
- ling ha ft, J. Trigg, Van Alen', Varnum,
, Wadfwonh, Wain, J. Williams, R. Wil
tr liams.—6 j.
: NAYS,
a MefTrs. Bard, Bloun>, Drown. W. Clai- j
s borne, Clopton, EggLftoja, Elmendorf, Fini-
Uy, Gallatin, G4leij*e, Harrifon, Havens,
JLjpck, Macon,M'Clenachan, New, Nicliolas,
W. Smith, Spring, Stanford A. Trigg,
- Van Cortfondt, Venr.blr—
r; On Wednesday afternoon la ft, Logan,,
y appeared in the House of Rc.prefeitauves of
j this llatf, was qualified, and took, his feat a 9
, a Reprefeetative for the County of Phila
f delphia.
If |
n Mr. Merry, the port, author «f the pieces
i signed Delia Crufca, the fains of Memory,
i &c; &c. is dead.
f The low fellow who-was lately committed
- to the jail of this city for seditious exjirei
s fions, like most of his afiociates in Jacubin
- ,ism, is no ftraagerto prison walls andprii'en
- fan?—A wretch whose name appears oil tV
i records of a criminaleourt, in the hononble
si cha rafter of States evidence'againft his less
ytrtful accomplices in public crime, and ther--
s by rescues his neftc from the baiter is a fit
tool for the execution rf any projefl, how
- ev*r diobolical ; bat irs surely unworthy the
f confidence eren of rogues.
, Ettrrqt tf c Icttc fron Northumberland
e county, state of Pennyltr.nia, dated De
s cembtr 1 yti, 1795,
:I "As to politics they run very high here ;
e and there is mueh'dillurbancrs among the
II people of Northampton ccunty, in piirticular,
!, in to the taxation. They have plainly
e told the afleffors, 011 the peril of tbeir livrs,-
e not to pretend to execute their orders of af
e felTment, in cor.sequence of which, the afTeffurs'
- ■ have returned their warrants to the Ccjnynt
e ftOners. Frel'y, one ef the coiijniiffioner» for
y the fbte of Pcunfyjvania, and a reHdent.in
f« Northampton county, was up at Wiikefharre
>f lajl week, and fighified to the inhabitants it
ttf was likely the militia would have to he cnllnl
• '. : : i
! ttilf the fcrvs ia iWic. wm»»
FVaiitJJft ( ffi red 'flii* hiiJit a cf.LoxCVVi 3!' d
t :.i head tlit'pi fc&iftlf, and filrtiier ft'icT, tV i
; a., tl.c people ei' Northampton clHinty had
a report that he wai mimical to
£>.e governmfn.i of Ptnnfvlvania, lie would
prve )u>w njife it >vas. H ow ffcrthts mat
ttrr vi'ilfbe ta'rviect God only 'VS."
©alette Marine lUff;
, Cbarltjiun, December 6.
•Ytfierday arrived the brig jsrafln, Rich
ards, Kingston, (Jum.) 30 day*.
Extrafl from tfie log book of the brig JV«
ruflia, capt. Joliah Richards, from Ja
maica. ,
" Sailed frpm Jamaica the 3d dav of No
vember, with part of the Jamaica fleet,
bound ihroifgh the Windward pafTage, but
was rbliged tu bear away, and come thtougb.
the Gulph.
" On tke 12th of the said month, was
hoarded by the French privateer, called the
Mill, which formerly belonged to
capt Alexander, fitted out of Charleston ;
they overhauled my papers, and let me pass.
after taking one barrel of sugar ind a barrel
of bread.
'• On the 21 ft of the said month, was
•boarded by the tylon czuttu floup of war,
off the Havanna. Ciptain Philips, in thtt
Baltimore flogp of war, was ci uiling off fa»«i
port, and had captured a small privateer,
mounting 4 iruns; he had her still wi b hitn.-
He informed me, that the t 'onllitution,
capt. Nichr»lfoTi, had fpriing her bowfprif*
which obliged her to bear away, '.vhere, he
could not tell-"
The Jeruflia w s also boarded by the Cof
fee Mill, on her paffigc out, off the eali endL
of Jamaica*
Ife<w-Tork. December 28.
Arriv:d this morni-g bvig Amiable CriS
ole, in 2t days fr»m the Havannah, failed
tin'der conv»y »f th.- U. S fluop of of was*
! Bal imore—by her we learn that the brig
■ Amazone, Rapes, of th » port, is taken by
• a French privateer a d eariicd in th-re, anil
I that five or fix privat ers were cruizing off
' the Havannah, and captured all A - erica u*
1 no matter were bound, httt were in dread
f of American crulaers. Ttiere were nun
t ; bers of' flfi.ercan prizes at the Hi vannah.
> j The armed ship Gen. Wayne, Se-iman, wa*
1 there.
: j Lift ofVePs.Uft at ihe Havannah.
r I Ship Portfift mh, vf Ph I'd lphin, Johti
■ Mittward, mailer—fch. Hawk cf do. capt.
- Garhart—fch. Friindfhip, do. C3pt. Morris
- ihe fch. Gen. Wayne, capt. Seaman, N* w
° York—«the, brig Ama«cn of Boiti n, capt.
1 Roper, brought iq by a French piivateer.
s taken in fight of the (hipping in tl i harbour
3 —the fch Aftive 6f do—thefhip Maryland,
capt, Cane.
| The brig. Hiram, Watson, from Hartford,
" bound to Grenada, w'ascaptufred tySi French
' priVatftr- 31 d ordered.for Quadaloiipe, but:
j retaken by the Captain and carried into St.
Kitts
j Capt. Shacklock, of the brig Tartar,4
'[ days f/om Norfolk, itrfo'rfl)t thet there were
S British (hips of war in Hampton Roads-.
s on Sunday last. „
- —; •-
NOTICE.
1 1 THE (hare-holders of the Lehigh
j Coal Miiu, are hefeby notified, ah;.: rhe.eMiioa
for a Prtfident, eijfht at, 3 a ivafurep
s ' for the ensuing year, will lie h- Kl « (he house oE
r ) Jofcpb Hardy. ligu of the Golden Sv. an, in ThircJ
flTe'et; Plritsdel|ihis, on the third Monday in Janu
y ary next at four •'clock in tbe aft<-rno<n.
5 ,1 ISAAC WAMPOLE, Scc'rv.
g I decern tier 29 _ laWjw. fa.
WANTED. '
lm TM'a small family, an rli'-rjy Woman, whose
ti X principal occupation wi'l h- care of chil
-- dfc»—app'y »tno. 113, Sp/uc:ftreel.
[j, N. B —Good rectfniftieiwa.iuio will be an in
difpenfiMe rtquifitc. ,
dec. 19 eod tt
TO BE RENTED,
]* The dwelling house No. 151,
u fob h fir et,ti,g:th rwi h a flack of Itorea
' aiid wharf adjuiniag, enquire »f
; S ' JOSEPH SIMS.
>1 Dec. V)
an JufP Publ.ifhed,
f ' AND sow i)*fi.kiq fik saLe Br
oi ' B. D 'FIEK
39 At No Hijth-ltreet,
THE AMERICAN REPOSITORY,
" 'aHV f
-4NNUAL HI-GIST BR,
s * For the Year 1799 }
y> Containing 'm'mpWte an i coriefl lifts of the
Executive, Legislative, and Judiciary De
parnnents of the General ind S'ate
d tJ^vernjpeufcj
A ) reat variety of iifelbl Tallies, nt-ceffkry to be
n _ kri"Wn in eVe'V Stl'V.ofjhe Unim
n Embelltpied laiih a ba dfomt engraved Fran
* UJp,t< "
Ts —A <I» *A' • vgLfy:
Canal Lotteiy, No. 11.
fit WiU rc-cotnmncr drn'whif, t>„ Monday,
t)h~ t th cf Jatmary tiext, and eon
,l" ttHlk unt'tiJjniJhed.
j to be hfd Dollars each, at
1- WILLIA.M Bf.ACkCUUN's Lottery
m ind Brokers office, Nov 64 South Second-street,
e- where cheek books are kept for repiftering ;nd
exammatioq of 'tickets in the above, City of
•. afhinjjton and Patrerf,n Lutteiies, &c.
ae >tati or tH* WHtai.
r One priteof 10,000 dollars 10,000
i v ?! ve 4.0e« 10,000
' wo I'cco 1 ' cco 4,000
r' Z wo 'l® »,oc
l j n T e " , S»o s , oOt
rs 1 wenty-leven »co j,400
f. With a full proportion of the one hundred
Jr and of the fifty dnlfar prlaes—Tfce Lottery ii
in 7 10r e 'h>n two tJiirds dr»wn an 1 above 15,000
dollars ricfter than at the commencement.
CT N'.'te, the biiGWfi of a Eroker duly at
; tended td « all ; t s bundles. t u f*
rd ouv. fImports.d
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowni
Baiaet
Velvetts
Velverttti
Printed talienca
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribband.
Sewing silk
Bruffeli and Persia caipctts
Buttons
For fate, for eajh or credit, ty
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. *43 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. >6 §tjanl
POIfSJLE, '
at mo. 9, Sooth Water-Strict,
lii(h Linens, 7.8 and 4-4, well
aQorted, in whole and half boxes
Checks, in ditto
DroghedaV, ar d Brown 7-8 beetled Linens
Irilh Hackled Flax
Seotts I'hrtad
Men and Womens Combs
Ruflia Duck, of an excellent quality, and
100 hhds. Aux Cayes Molafies.
By ISAAC HdRVEr> Junr.
Ilth. mo 17 d 4W
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
F.friSion for twelve Direflors, for the eufuiftg
year, will b« I eld at the Bask on Monday, the
14th of January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Calk'r.
_Dec. t, 1798. dtEl
N 0 T I C E.
ALL Persons indebted tn tkeEAite of WW.
liam Beauchamp, lately deceased, are de
sired to make imnedia'c payment and thole who
have aav claims against said Eltate to ptoduce !
thair accounts properly attested to
Sam/. Price, executor.
»"V 10 dim
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms for Cash or a Ihort credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jtreet, near Che/nut.
nov ,iA ' (j
FOR SALE ,v
7 6 he I'XCHANGKJ) for property within thirty
mi cs ot Ihe city, or to let on gtauni-rcnt or ever
Several valuable building Lots,
lit Philadelphia,
inquire of William M. Diutilc. ne. 147, Chefnut
ftreet.
MOV 2% §
FOR S<*LE,
By the Subscribers
200 Bolts Russia Duck,
jo pn««London | aititular bill .VladeiraWine
r pan nin<-pound Cannon
,e * ts v 'adr Handkerchiefs
40C0 bs Fine Flota Indigo
Barrels Beef.
Witlings & Francis:
Fenn-ftreet, i
November 18 J £
j I LL PERSONS having any legal demands a.
£\ «a nft the ellate of William Putin,,dice fed.
ht: of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern kec er, are
refuelled t) fur it ifh tluir accounts properly au
thenticated, and <ll per fans indebted to said Wtate
are r.-qactted to make payment to the fttbfcrib:r in
Philaoelphia.
I EVI HOLLINOSWORTH Adminr.
()sobcr jtft, 1798.
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of
Enquire at No. 58 South Front ftrett,
Dec. to.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, » fecund time, front
the Marine Camp, David Lufer, a fife v
Hq had when he went away, a plain Uue jacket and
veil,light blu overalls, a round hat,which had been
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fitft desertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he it
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far,d; bair
fnltaw complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
His back it It 1 1 i fore from a Hogging he got a few
days ago He may be difcovtred by b:t fileing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
October 17. Marine Corps
FOR 6ALE>
Fifty Acres of Good Land\
Lying in Gloucester Co-unty,
State aj Aetr Jersey,
TWENTV.FOUR acres oi whichaie
\\ Hodland, the rell, Aleadow. I'his
lan J lies ab°"t lylf a cntlc from i iuiber-Cretk,
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
tfounty road palling through it, and the great
road only two miles diftint. For terms, appK
to, ' PATKICK DOG HER FY, •
Sign 9/ the Rainbow, in Shippen,
between Second and ThirdJtrecti.
dec 4 ftuth&faw '
All persons "
Indebted to thtEAate'of Mr. John F«NNo,late
of Vhiladelphia, deceased.an; dtfired to make pay
ment, and those having any demands, to prcitHt 1
;ti.nt for fettlsraenr, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or j
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent f
to the adminiftmion.
m>v. Jo ?m <
' " notice: '
\ LL perlons indebted to the Estate of Sam- '
UH Wallis, esq. of Murcey townlbip,
m the county of Lycoming, lately deceaied, arc
Lcteby required to come forward immediately
and pay their refpetfive debts.—And all persons
laving legal demands against the Estate, are
requelretl to produce their accounts, properly
aathenticated, for fcttlcment.
JOHN WALI.IS,
WILLIAM ELI-IS, (Adminiftra-
DANIEL SMITH, C tors.
JOHN AIM.UM, J
dece.Tiher 1.; ,;tau-4w c
Dancing SchooJ. I
1
T * TiI.LIAM M'OOUCMLL prefenn his r»f- 0
V» peAful compliment, to the public : takes
liie Wirt ty of informing them, that at the requelt
ii" mar.jr of hi, former employer*, he will opes
hi, Scutkbi, at hw Ball ltooa, in Fourth, bet- ''
v. ecn CbcfimtandiWaltiut Greets, on the firft Moo- a
■ iy of D.eetn'.er —For Young Indies at ten a
, o'clocti in the morohig—and for Gentlemen, at d
iix in lie evening! of Wcdsefdayt and
. ridayi.
Nov. a 8 «o» n
I
/3g / ' '
THE CAP.OQ,
Ok thk Ship IND'I t;
fcsptain Ashmcad, from bATAVIA, fr
Consisting rf
is JAVA COFFEE, /
Of the Fit ll Qwility—ko be Sold, by
MORDECrtI LEWIS. j
■|i-C ii ''iw
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, 2
<4 four pound Cannon, <'ifferent lengths,
5 Carrouadea.
JOHN NIXON & CO. 7(
December i. _ $
Lancaster Coiinty Butter,
W KEGS,—FOR S/ILE, 2(
_ Enquire at No.- 92, Market-street, J0
near Third-Street: 3
» d ' c 1 * »
11 LARiilsCt SI'.CKEL, .5
No. Market-Stntt.
First quality London Particular / VWNBIS.
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon 5
Cogniac Brandy, ift to 4th proof.
Sprits. ,
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Oalloa. 4
dec j mw&fm- j
Now Landing, i
From on board the (hip John Buikeley, and 1
for sale at the (lores of Jeffe 6c Robert J
Wain,
»g 350,0 c ° weight of Java Coffee, i
*e of the firll quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar, ' a
iii canniftcri. I
nov. I
, BALLAsi. ~~ | 1
A QUANTITY 10 be dirtied of, If applied for ! x
r " XX immediately, on board ike Ship Louisa, lying ,
Mr. HUMPHREY*. Snip Yard.
:e novemberio. 0
— 3
Imported, »
In the Ships Adtve and Liberty, j
from HJutvtQH. 5
Ticklenburghs, 3
Oznabrigs, I
t White Platillas 4
Brown Silefias --
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
y Brown Russia Sheetings '
German Lindfeys,
» Bed Ticks, life.
For Sale by 2
GEORGE PENNOCK.
no. 103 Market-flreet.
n"v 10 $
SHuEMAKtR BLRKLTT,
HAVS Rfc MOV ED THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, south Front ftiret.
Their room at the Coffce-houfe will contfhve to
be attended fro*i It tin 1 o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOE.MAKER,
Has also removed hit Counting koufe to :-he
lame placr, where he has for falc a few pipes choice
| London Paaticular Madeira Wite; Frcneh and
iS'paniih Brandy ; Claret <n calki and caf!», of fu
. penur quality, and a few packages Glass aid
J j alfo,a quantity of Carolina SoaC
leather, whick will Ik fold very low to close the "
sales.
Philadelphia. It mo. n, I 798. {
THS PAHThKRSIUf OF Frc
Alexr. J. Miller, n
, TIEING diffused on th« firft instant, by the
t £> death of Jamct Davis, all persons indebted
to the fame art requested to fettle with the sub
scriber, and those to whom they are indebted art f on j
requelted to call on him fir payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER, inh
JV». 64, South Front Jtreet.
Who has on hand, Du»
F TO at oisrotio or OM low tlrkj, j
1 By the Package or Putt.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslim bon
Guz/ennas repc
Bat'tai A
' Coflaet age,
Rabobgungies pie*
India CaMicoea We:
Boi'k Muslins foav
Colour d ditto to h
Real & Mock Madras & pollicat kkfs. A
Brown Sileflas ed t
Tickings, &e. &c. pert
on tl
JUST ARRIVED, {J""
ANAKORTMZNTSr
IrilTi Linens Ssf Russia Sheetings, able
nov 28 £
A Young Man, nf
•fTTHO write, a good hand, usderftands ~ t
▼ » account and can be w«ll recommended, *
want* a Situation as Clerk or Assistant in a
Wholesale Store, or Couutmp-hrufe. Apuli.
cation to be made it this Office. TIT
nov 14 JLI
To the Creditors of the Subscribers f"Uy
PLEASE to TAKE NOTICE, that «e havrap". and '
plied to thf jurtges ut the Court of Common
riea«. for tbe benefi; ol an aft of alTembly, the -
THuIsOAV , AP "' i afti n 1 ' ,d ! hCy HaVe ""P
THU..SDAY the 27th inft. to hear ut and c,ur Cre.
ditort, tn he City of Philadelphia, at fnch place
whete t„ e Court may be held, ana wnere you may
attend if you pieafe. '
PATRICK CtVANAUCH.
J A M ES DOUOHERIY, ..
PETER 6 R/)SE, ble p,
JOHN GRKLXE,
LEWIS D GRAFF,
James m-calley. a k
RICHARD STOKES A ''
———l 3< aw ow
- no
LOST,
TN one of the streets between Union and Saf-
X fafras, on the sth ir,itant v the outfidr Cas*
0, ,h n G A ° ldWl ' ch - thebtck
with a fhie.d Any perlon who may find the T 1 !
ftme, and wdl b: io g to this office, wi!l receive 1
Four Dollars re Wilr d ( an d e thlnkj f of
ow " fr ' No.
J&J- ' ___ Kegi
All Perlbns 1
Indebted to the Ettate of HENRY HI 1,1., deceaf.,l Tnf
a " rr K qU , , Cd t0 payment to the l*bfer»bcr ;
and those r.ny on the fa. ae to pt. „
ducc their for 1
GIDEON H. WELLS, aod 1
»39»Mark:t street " ptJ
Pa .adeljfc a, dec. 4, i 79 g cwf
IMpd R T kb
In the list arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT KI/iJO NA B L >". PRICES AND ON A LIBERAL
1 CKEDII, BY
* PRATT & KINT7. TXO,
N0.95, Vorth Wawrftrcct.
215 bales & boxes iicklehburghs,
herripen linens and oznabrigs from l/j to
3/" per ell
70 cfd; bleached and brown hefiians
40 do. brown rolls suitable sot cof
fee bagi
20 do. (Irong do. do. for cotton do.
30 elicits pjatilia* » do- Sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 package* oil-cloth
30 da. crea» ala Morlaijt 4 do. fail-twine
1 1 j (io.lU teficld liirin 14' pipe. Port wine
90 do. patterborncs 91 cafe.- claret
4s do Hrittanias 130 do fine ICrg corked
<5. I do. Holland cairvafs claret
I de. Ruffm do. : <OO huftcls fine lalt
3 do. Rullia Hirelings 40 calksofroll briinilorie
I do.raveHsduck too calks of naval ttores.
a do. Rufila drilluis s<3 logs |>rime mahogany
I do. brnwn holhnd 4 hh.ls- coffee mills
a do. Silesia rouan# b bundles German steel
| I dt.Wahrcndrop liner 10 chefls ol slates and
l(J I do. Caraudoles pencils
, [ I do. Fleinilh linen? A package of Ikates
f I do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 chells of Nurenberg
Jy Ido diaper toys
li do. stripes 40 kegs of yellow ochre
|3 do. c!(fcks 3 lihds. Glut
a do. fiamois 8 barrel ■of Lentiiies
1 do. Arabia flripe S chcits of prime red
I do. bunting for colorv crult Holland chiefs
I x pack*. Madras hand- 39 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
or 1 do. Turkey yarn 400 fides ot upper and
j 6 bales empty bags foaj leather
I I chtft hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
_! 3 boxes tapes, allotted #OO Demijohns
a da bobbin, alerted jO bdxes glals tumblers
I box threads & tapes assorted
I do. fine blue"liftados a hhds. pumice stone
5 cheWs men's flippers 1 bcw of mill l'a\Vs
3 do bed ticks I calk of cutlery
a calls hog's bridles A quantft; of flonc jugs
6 chads writing paper and pickling pots
"• 4 do. quills) , A. fuw (hips anchors, &c.
*' iftftnmr ir' tu&ifaf
John Miller, junr?
Hat returntrl to the City,
AND IS K K M.O V INC FROM NO. 8, CMESNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Third ftrect.
Wfiere lie has for Sale
250 Bales of bengal Goods;
CONSISTING OT
Ceflaei
Hafus
Mamoodies
Hurehums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, lift. iyc.
The remains of a Stock of
DRT GOODS,
i) - Conftjllng $f IVoolens only,
1 AMONCIT THEM ARK,
Cluths
Coalings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, Sic.
l A L S 0,
■ 100 Hbda. of Old Rum,
Qf a fine flavor, 3d y .yth proof. _
, nov to {
Forty "Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl SthuyHill, viz.
, Oilober 19.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
t completion, bor.i in Holland, no Trade, speak*
broken Englilh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
Ntvembet 6. John Murphy, 47 years of
*8 e » S feel j \ inches in height, grey eyes, dark '
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dublin, by trade a Hosier.- '
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, s f.et 6 inches !
*ye*» sandy hair, freft complexion. '
• born in New-EngUnd, fhte of Con«e<3icut, a c
repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith. 1
November 7, William Collins, 3oyeais ®f t
»g«, S feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, JreQj com- \
jjdexion, gfeyeyes, born in Ireland, county ot '
Wexford, by trade a Gardntr, has worked for
Tome tune about Philadelphia, he is very fond '
to hear hitnfelf Sing. t
AH the above deserters are very much a<JHifl. '
ed to Ihquor, and will take other people's pro- c
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
«>n their backs, had on, when they went away
{~"j Wot king. Whosoever , PP r e l
hends said deserters, (hall receive fortv dollars I
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all realon
by *PP'y' n g»° meat above,
EDWARD MILLER, «,pu„ n
no regiment of Infantry commanding.
$
Charles Campbbll, s
HW Arc H-M A KER. «
K M mo ~ d ,' 0 ,he formerly occupied u
r y<J,n No. <5. cornel-of „
fuUv'rere 1 whe " h <= «"■ «hank- *
«t has co.iT.rriv on hand,
A Neat and Large Affortma>t of r
Clocks Ssf Watches. b
' %v
WANTED, 5!
. A J°URNETTMAN : K
bie P ;S.r e or two Awren,i « 3 of };
la
FOR SALE, «1
A large quantity of Watch Glasses "
Htolejmlc and Retail. di
nov 3 »wy h
Bank of tht United States. f
L November 14, 1108. °'
IS HtREB * Gir£N,
I HAT application will be made at the Trta- -
A lury ot ihe United States for the renew,!
No* 0 o Slx P rr Cent Fu»ded Debt,
Kecillrr's 4 f lffl° r »'' 81 dollsrs « 33 cents, dated „
Kegilter s Office, January Bth, 1798, issued in
\r uY**-* mUiam H'iMnk, Jan Willink V
TrSf't SI °PW ® Hubbard, "
dan V m " ne y l""lers in Amflcr!
dam which was forwarded the uthof Janua.
cantlkSl 7 r P, "' e ° f ,hf ft 'P Co »«nibus,
captain Skuwer,from New-York forArnfterdam ~
G. Stmfftffi, cafr'r.
BwT IA
** »»w6w
Ali Perfous indebted to the Estate
otSiMUKL CpoP£R, late of this city, Phyli-
U ciao, dcewfed, arc requested to .nalce payment
to the lubferibers And ihofe perlons who
have <ny demands agafuft the fald '' lre
desired ta bring in their accounts for l<ttle-
I " entt SAMUEL COATES, J
THOMAS MOKRKS f Execllt ori
'• mordecai r.Ev\ is, or<
!, ELLISTON PEi<()T, J
0 0 f (he Will of the fatd Sim«el Cooper.
Ph Jla. 11 mo. 16- 1798- toßt
f T E /A
A Few Clieft-i t)f
IMPERIAL tea,
'* For sale, on rcafonablc terms, at No. 4*, Soiirh
Secoiid-ftrcct.
deccnilrSr 22 2awl
advertisement.
Todd & (Vlott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
e afligned over their effeiJU, rsa', ptrfonal, and
'• mixed, to the fiibfcribcrs for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
-1 Notice is hereby Gitren,
1 ' j O all perfuns who are indebted to the said
L estate, that thry are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir refpeilive accounts to
either of the alTignees, orto WfLLMM Mott, their
5 agent duly authorized; in failure whereofc legal
raealures will be taken for the recovery cf l'u ch
: debts as are r.ot difchargvd without delay.
"John V/addingtm
John Rhodes 5- Assignees.
; J°hn Allen. J
r nov. 16 tu.th&fatFl
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
1 For property in the City, 01 witlu'n Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tulcorora Valley. Mifflin county, conta nijng
ab»ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At present tbeie is about 5.0 acres
1 cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing Hreani, that
, has fall and water enough for all ihe purposes of
a Country Mill, for lurcher iniormation apply at
No. 68, Market flrcet.
novemher 20 tow
NOTICE.
"■pHE Stock-holders of the Company encorporat
* ed for creating a Permanent Bridge over the
River Schuylkill, are requclled to attend their
annual meeting on the firll Monday in January
next 7th day of that month) a: (he City
Hall, at len o'clock in fhc forenoon, for the pur
pofc of choofinga Prefiderw, twelve Direilors and
aTreafrrer of the said Company for the pnfuiiig
year, as by law is ditched,
JOHNDORSEY, fec'y,pro tem.
dec 17 ,'jawt7jy
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFEK., of Philadelphia, who has
for a few year* past been in thefouihern State*,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and mylelf,and by that means has defrauded
a number of perk'ons of their money, daceivirig
'hem by an exhibition of ktrersand papers with the
name* affixed of divers public charadcis and repu.
merchants highly rec«mn:endatory of said
Shaeller ; to cue ol these papers 1 find my name
fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; thefc are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition, ;
1 Kjye to as .1.,
United States to publilh this hr, the benefit of their
feMow-citizens. SAMUEL MEgIiOITH,
Treufurtr of lbs United States.
Trenton, New-
Oflober 24, 1798. )
Ntw tiOrELS, PLATS,
MAGAZINES, &c. j-
Chalk's Circulating Library. 1
No. 75, North ThirdJifeet.
Proprietor, in compliance with his pro- '
X mifes to render this liiftitutiOn a complete (
source of rational amnfement and inftruAion, by I
repeated acquisitions of eatertaining and interest- ]
mg publicaticm, has now added to his former
colleflion Four Hundred Volumes of mifcella
tt:°.rki ' comprising nearly all the lute/1
publtf/.ed Novels and Dramatic froduHtons <
fubferibers Wh ' Ch art r " dy lor dciiver y to 1
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still re- c
Um Books taken from the Library previous to 1
the sickness, are reqoeftcd to return them imme- 1
chlr « ed front the z 4 th 1
T I
For sale,
H^n e si IVOred !^ Ptr i Jl ' Y ° Un S Hyson, Hvfon,
Mjlon Skin, and Souchong TEAS.
dcc ' 1 timßw
Valuable Property for Sale. 1
FOR SALE,
FHA T well known Estate called a
SHREWSBURR FARM, formerly the 'reQdencc ! o
al^" r ' r ' tUlt# on Saff afras | o
Knof c# " m r. Maryland—containing a-'I c
taut 1909 acres oi prime LAND, upwards <.f ,co
ol wmcharem wool,. The Building. afe a U " cx . «'
cellent, and confill if a hmidfome Houfe 11
two la ge Barns with Cowhouses, Stables for fifty
horles, a 'peWon, treading floor under cover a era
nary, two Jverfeer's houl'es, two ranges of two fla
ry huildingslor Negroes (one of them new and of
brick), Corn houses a >moak koufe, &c. See.: Ihe
whole Ellate being nearly turrounded by water it
requiresbut"ittle fancing, aad has a good Shad and
Hetnng It is convefliently situated for r
both the Philadelphia and ur J m Xu JnK U
two landings on a navigable river bus a (hurt fail t>
ronißaltimore Th crei large Pcach a»d t w 0 '
large Apjjlc Orchards on the premises: alf© a varie
ty of excellent fruits of different kirn's The (til 1 "
-cft'y . rich lo»n .-The whole w,,,'be Sd
theror divided mtofmalter farm S (forufaicl, the bfil
duigs are coovenuntly C, U a-,d) as m.y tl,e pur .
haicr. The otock on laid Farm, cowli/tixw r»f £ n r
des Cattle, Sheep Ac. will also be difpuferiof—*
For^ further p.rt.dars.pply ,° GtonG l 1a '
on the premifes.ortothe subscriber, in Philadelphia
December,, A CH,BAJ * DM ' CALi -. J uv -
—■' . i m. tl.
Notice. " ■
P° rfans indebted to the Ef
ed'tcTmmk** 6 tfq deceated, are ltqucd
-
ceorge Davis,
. Attorney ui fadt 10 ci
JOHN M'Kim, jr. a.
MAYOR'S OFFIGE^
KEMOVED te i i7 s,utk Secand-firret. '
(a*
:e J™ IS DAY PUB LWHRr,
Br WILLIJJI.rSfjL.
Nt Corner of Chdrut nd Second/ft^,
10 JoA]\o fA R r 1
re Ay Epic Pt Eyr
C- By Robert Souibty .
"WE do bo, lit-(irate tA T L
that the poetical powi rs difpla Vf j 1 ° Ur °P in «ia
. very fupfrior kind—Conce-ml. ' n " arc °f *
» daring, fcntimcnts more *£■««
guage more energetic will not , aßd i«n.
nor doe» (carcely any part of it fi„v ■ oun<l :
a> t' ll glow of feelings and g en i u "I? Un P"*, ,
whol*. The language is for tU„ „ lm "w the
delled oa tltat of Mdton ; 'and not .I pin ' »<>•
has a ltroiig reltft of shakefpeare." < * ,,e * ll y ) >t
W.
h * history
ot ANECDOTES OF THF
REVOLUTION Jlt fiussu
- IN THE YEAR lj6i.
Trarflited from the French of M it n„n,-
seem in iifputable and hi. read.r, ap'pTtofi
a rass
11 concurred in bringing about (his ftriking^ent
" Wefliall only add, that we hare CIA
with more ... ..«,»«
d "-—a,
'itfftMnk Monthly S n i„v, *f
° r deC '»
t excellent Horse &? Cbrir
TO be fold on r*af )n.iblt ternu »),,> /•
Stable, No. 28 North Third-* treet ,vcr 7
N ' r lc Ho r fe^ lo «o 'a gentUmen irf
one ol the Troops in this City.
dec 17
jawat,
Hall persons,
AV4NG claim* agjinli the Fstats nr
SUS/tmAH LGCKrt R, deieafcd, are
r r«q netted t prefem .heir revive account. »
Na THAN a. smith, 7
OR i ■"'hng
, JOHN DORSET, J Exccu «"^-
-.nov o ,
' ;aw6w
6 r —— —- —__
, DISTRICT O#JfISNNSYLVANU. 10 *'IT~
' ___ n r E lr XF-MEMBEKZI),
' ( L c \ r I H Al' Qn the twelfth day
X of August, in the twenty third year of
* She Independent «f the United Etares of
. America Benjamin Smith Barton,ef the laid ilif
trifl, hath deposited in this office the title ol a
book the right vvhcreol he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
: «• New Views ol the Origin of the Tribes and
; " Nations of America— By Venjamiit Smith liar
" ton, M.D>C«rrc'fpo»drnt Member of iheSocie.
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
• " the American l'hiiofophical Society, Rcilow of
1 '« the American Academy of Arts asd Sciences of
" Bolton, Ctu rcft-ond'dg Msn-.Wr of rle Maffa
" ohuietts i-Wltorical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Msdica, Natural History and Botaty
" in the t) niver'itv of Pennfylvaßia "
, In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
United States, intitled " An ad for tht encnurage.
ment of learning by feeuring the copies of mips,
charts, and ' ; o k;, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timcsther»in mentionsd.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELi,, Cierk, Did. of Penn*
November 2, 1798,
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
Now landing from on board the Ihip I\l3lA,
»t Mr. Thos. Penrofc's Wharf, and for (alf ty
s&J** -Aibmead,
No. i 6?, South From-Strect,
WHO.HAS ON HAND,
For Hale, on reafonabk terms,
Cofiatl
lJatus
Black Taffatifs,
J der ic L _____ eodtf_
jfust Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4,6 and 9
pounders.
Carronades, Woolwich proof, with carriages, its.
complete—l a, 18 and 14 pounders.
CannoK powder in kegs of 25lbs. eatfh
Round, double-headed, and cannifitr (hot
Patent fheaihiug copper, bright, assorted 18, Jo,
22, 14, 26 and 28 or per square foot, fteas 48
by 14 inches, fuitaLle for v* lie Is from top t®
XOOO'tOlis
Copper nails, bcjts and spikes
Boacding Hikes,
Comniou cutlalHrs
Gunners stores of all kinds
Tin-phtes No I—l-3 cross boxes
Patent ft'ot in calks of jewt. each
London porter and*>rown iiaut,in calks of 7 d" 2 '
bottled.
Earrfien ware in ««ate», assorted
For Sale by
SIMON WAI KER,
Pine near ,5 th Ilrect.
Odobcr 29. c 0 'f-
Injur ance Company of North America.
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
' are hereby inform'td, that a dated meeting
of the Company will be lieltl at theu Office
on the Bth of January next, (being the f»-
! cond Tuesday in tine Month) for the elec
tion of twenty five Dire&crs for the earn
ing vear.
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12 h.
An Apprentice Wanted.
A TOUTH,
Of Reputable Cof.neftions, & fufiioirnt qoalifiea
iswaiUcdasan Apprentice to ihe Bufineis of a No
tary Public aad Conveyancer.— P'ift-
f. ro.aw;
" FOR SAL E,.
No. 7, South toua i ri-Srai* "A
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A Hox of Silks
so Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of tjjwt.
A parcel very C»e Calfia* „ £4
C. H\IGHT.
dec j 3a» 2w
For Sale,
A well improved Plantation,
Of one Innnlrtd and twenty atnes,
VERY beautifully ftruated in the county
Mo:.rgowery, about twenty miles from tw
city.—The l-uiidiugs are all new and **
«s to accommodate a geiiteff family « nly *
lurtlicr inform.itiofv, enquire ;<t the l J cnnfyl van '*
Coaf.ol-Arms, nineteen nul«s from town, an
three above iVlorri»-towi'.
ticrcm'uei I j