States, And Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
Number 1785. J
FOR LIVERPOOL,
JjSL l i Per tr, <
Isaac Vredenberger, Matter, jj
A good new vcflcl, fails well— F
lyi»g at Clifford's Wharf, wilt fail about thetentho
■ext month,' a considerable part of her Cargo bein
engaged*—For freight or pafT.ecapplv to
JOHN SKYRIN, g
No. 96, North Front Street. fv
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return oneof pi
the firft fall veffclito this port.
may 19 dtf
FOR SALE, -
THE NEW AND REMARKABLE EAST SAILING
m a Tim Ilia n,
Job* J. WittOßE*, Ma/Ur,
• lying at Jcll'e & Robert L
Wain's wharf—her length "» 69 feet 6 inches
breadth, 10 feet, 5 inches, depth 8 feet 6 inches,
measure* I*4 65-95 toot, and it completely piere'd
and fitted to carry T4 punt. Fot terms apply to
GEORGE PIUMSTEf),
No 166, South Front Street.
Liletuife from on bodrd Schooner,
/V Quantity ot Peas.
Kiln dryed Indian Meal in Ijarrels, and 439 bar
rels of Ship Stuff.
ALSO,
120 Tierces of Rice, f
Landing from on hoard the Schooner Elizabeth,
Captain Hatch.
m y 25 4 T -iwiw
For Cape Francois,
NOR TH AMERICA,
Barnes, Ma far,
TO fail in eight or ten days.— For
freight or apply to
Pratt if Kintzing,
No. 97, North atcr, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port* Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Crust Chi.efc, Tumblers, Tioklenburghs, Helens,
Brown Rolls, See. &c.
may 25 eod6t
FOR LIVERPOOL, -
The remarkably tad failing Brig i
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jmrfmtjh Tatem % matter.
w '^ l * n t€Q —^° r '
freght or pafl*age, apply to JAMES YARD. ,
Walnut-Jlreet Wharf, ,
may 23 diot 1
For Sale, or Charter, i
THE ARMED SHIP
i BELtID ERE,
Jonathan Reynolds, Alajfer,
C\\.'LYING at Jefleand Robert W aln's
wharf, burthen 256 to»s, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793. oi h™
oak, cedar and locust—was coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
he a [launch and faft failing (hip, i* well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to feain
a few iajri at a very little expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 20, North Front
street, to
RICHARD D. ARDEN
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHfcP
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of lhot
13 Tons rolled Iheet lead
20 Bal'-s Englilh Duck, aflbrted numbers
10 Tons whiting
Ihe Ship Belvidfre, if not fold or Char
tered before Wednesday next, will take freight for
London.
may 10 §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
j95 casks of nails aborted
20 bales ©f fail eanvafs, from No. I to 8
5 3 casks yellow ochre
i 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Made j rl Wine ,
India market )
Tenenffedo. in hogiheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty CUret bottle,
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineti &c.
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, jo, andijinch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands aid presses
»0 purcheons J«maica rum
I bale Teaming twine
t6o bundles (heath ing paper
THE BRIG
4 M A Z O N,
for Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin ts* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo,capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few grace Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingj'worth & Co.
No. 12, Little Water ftr«et, South,
april ao.
for sale.
W, do I "Town} Havannah Sugar
too Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Active, Will
iam Williams, master.
? >f"*'"^.,^Th e faidtirigforfale,
mSP* And may take in immedi-
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollinif worth & Co.
•narch 10. £_
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO hs* five years and a half to fcrre, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
hat been accustomed to marketing fcr a family—
hU age about thirty two year*. For further parti
s u'a- apply at th« office »f this Caz«tte.
Bi»r 15. * §
By John Fen no, N°' 119 Chcjnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT 31, 1798.
FOR SALE,
. TBI «Hir
RICHMOND, F
JUST arrived from the East- ,
l»die« and. lying at Latimer'. £
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpeft as ft<
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever pit to- 0 v
gether, copper bolted and (heathed. She is 80
feet keel 17! feet beam, 11 feet bold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels ot
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mordccat l.tiuit.
may 30
LTndiW&T
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiahle Matilda, William B'own,
Mader, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas & J°^ n Ketfond
■ "gyrgy Said Brig for sale, 1 -
Ji: 'ffigiwith two pair tour pound C AN
WM, and one pair i»Ib.CAR- A
may 19 §
~~~NOW LANDING*
From on board the brijf Amiable Mrtilda, from
Bourdeaux, and for file by the fubferiber,
S« ;a(ks CLARE 1' (|
71 do. do. of a fupcrior quality
1 trunk* gtcen PAlfc At'Ol.9
Thatnas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut-llreet. c
ITKO HAS ON HAND, j,
VThite Wine in half Calks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in t
boxes and baskets . 1
Lunelle Entitled to
Sauterne / Drawback. I
Irish Market V WINES in Cases I
Macarty and 1 , (
Medcc J J 1
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento iu bags.
, may 19. *
TO BS SOLD, LET, " I
Or exchanged for property in the city of 1
Philadelphia. (
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the
county of Montgomery. The house is in good 1
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ; ,
there are a number of good fruit trees therein,
the fituarion is high and healthy and one of the
best for anv kind of bufwefs in the town, pof
fefiion will be given immediately—for terms ap
ply to William Nichols
No. 117, RaceJireet.
may 29 *§
' The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of thetreafury, were
forwarded for London by the Hup William
Peon, COfptam Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
' 3164. 81. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
1 Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
| Great Britain, dated June a, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
8021. 15. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name ©f
Edward Korne, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name ol Will
iam Manning, of Qrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797* No.
10199. 1
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mat hew, of Upper Seymour street,
r London, Widow, dated October 31. 1797. No.
nßzo.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap -
plication is intended to be made at the fud office of
iheTreafury of the United Statss, —and all per
sons concerned aredefired to take notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen share« Stockof the Bankof United States in
thename of William Manning,of Ornifby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five {hares each, dated January 1, 1797*
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc deiired to
tak« notice.
JN. VAUG HAN.
e Philadelphia, may 4. s6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, standing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlesex, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
13096 to 13105, ten lharcs—No. 9150 —13066 to
13075. ten shares—No. 2149—13056 to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148—11509 to Hsiß,ten shares
—No. 2147 —*147* to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
fh-p Wilha-n Penn, which having been captured,
" said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal of which, applicniion will be made to tke
is Board of th« said company
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *d6w
FOR SALE,
rHE whole or on« half of a PLANTATION
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two mile® from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; then are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will exceed 5c th« next ; ant? any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider ; a dwellifig
houfe with a barn, stable, granary and other re'
cefiary buil -ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
l" one of the most elegant situations f©r a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient*
to market by land sr water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
i- Thomas St- John.
May 5 eodtf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, to James
C. Fisher, Samuel W Fisher, and Thomas Wilson'
All persons who have demands are re
a quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
ad and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Affignecs.
ti- James C. & Samuel IV. Fiflier.
t No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
Colledtor's Office,
Philadelphia. May 15, 1708.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION. pj
AT the Custom-House, 00 Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Cullom MouCc
(lores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or conlignees thereof: »
(XH) eight.half faggots of steel
( I'D) 202 one baie girthweb
(FL) a quantity of iicel £
one cafe lamps m
C&C one cife bobbin
(W) one lmall box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books ,|
I&C one keg herrings
(WJ one small box of samples of buttone
[D] 1a 3 hale« girjhweb
[VH] too one ditto ditto f c
| N] too one ditto ditto w
(No mark) eight jars olives ai
(ditto) one bundle dates e ,
[LS] ory small box locks dt*s J n .
Will be fold for Caih, w
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June ne*t, at the M«r- Ql
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not prevxoufly disposed of at pri- v
vate fair, •
THT FOLLOWINC TRACTS OF e '
Valuable patented LAND, c i;
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia, p
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the p
state of Virginia, I,
700 o acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Atatamah?. rivets, ad- t ,
joining the common jof the town of Drupfwick. j,
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on,the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, & Ferdinand O'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of ?
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acre* in Bath county, on both fides of 3
Green Briar River, adjoining lands oi Jac»b War
rick, Daniel M'Collum and John Dilley, including *
3000 acres-os prior surveys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of I
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag- 1
gon road leading from the warm springs to Staun- c
ton, including joco acres of prior surveys t
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu- J
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson, <
and including 4588 acres prior surveys. 1
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of \
Cowpaftttre River, on the waters®! said river, and <
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joleph ]
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys. 1
The Georgia lands will be fold in traits of on* ;
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and trails above described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No, 41,
Arch street ; propofala of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
1 No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PAKKUR,
No. 9, Nbrth Eighth street.
may 14. dts^
! By virtue of a decree of the honorable the high court
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubfenbtr will fell
at Fublie Saje, on the premi fes, on Monday, the
, 25th of Jijne next at 11 o'clock in the forenoout
THAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad part of No. 54, late t the property
' , of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city* situated on
" Thame*-(beet, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with ail
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are ,
- erefted on tins valuable property, fcveral large and
, commodious b»i k Waiehoufes, capable of contain
. ing from 15 to 20.000 barrels of flour, wjth a frame
I shed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold »000 hoglhead of Tobacco; ;n perfe6l fafety
f from the weather. From ibis well krown properly
- is extended into the deepest water in this harbor, an
extenfiveand well conftratled whaif,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and caoable of reciv
i ing ships of any burthen at the lowcft tides. From
the many advantages this property is known to poilefp,
it is eftecmed equal if j;®t superior, in point of cqm
s mercial benefit, to any in this city, and must be a de
firableob e& to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnecessary to fay more on this fub
-0 jt£l, as those intending to purchase, will have an 00-
- pprtunity of viewing the prcmifes [previous to the
0 day of sale.
The terms on which the above property i» fold,
are, that the fhill give approved r.ego : iable
notes, with security to the trustee t<>r the paymrntof
O'.e half tlje purchase money with inteieft, within
three months, and the refiduc with interest, within
g fix months Irom the day of fr je.
•f SAMUEL MOALE.
mav aB. Jp.
1 ADVERTISEMENT.
"VTQTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
is IN of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
0 at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
ie rh« firft Friday in June next, pare df a trad of
i, Land called STRUGGLE, lying in WorceJUrcoa>*-
? ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate of Joshua
ie Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the o*>e
half cf the purchase money, and fi'teen months
credit for the otiier half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security lor the fame, 011 in
terest, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
said Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
,n to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 2zd
v day of December last, that being the day of the
™ firft sale.
es WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trnftue.
a ' may 14. S3 W
" CONTRACTS.
TTIE Managers of the alms house and houie
of ment, in this city, will receive
Z- proposals in writing, to be left at said house 011
or before Wednesday the 30th infant, from any
1 person or persons, willing to contra«sl for for
as nifhing Frelh Previsions, lay, Beef, Mutton and
3C Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
one year: The contrail to commence on the firft
nt of Juneenfi'ing ; the meat to be frefh and mar
to ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind ajteroately, or in fides or carcases, as re
quired.— Also, for fupplyi/ig mi'.k for the use
of the said poor. The milk to be new/ sweet,
and unadulterated, and the fwpply to commence
0 . on the 14th of June ensuing.
By ordtr of the of Managers,
JOHN CUMMINGS, 6tcKv*rd.
e may 23 dti f
- William Meredith,
t0 Attorney at I.aw.
HAS Removed to No. 127 Chefnut-ftrcet,
where Titles to Real eftafes are examined
and Briefs thereof jnd Conveyances of every
kind, prepared. may 22 3**7w
CONGRESS. £
til
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. <'<
in
al
Tuesday, May 15- . ce
(Continued from yfflsrday's Gazetie.) . j
Mr. Sew a li, said, it was a very difHcult jj
thing to rcltrict the right of petitioning; but cj
it was very evident that some reftricrion ought yy
to be put upon it, if poftible. He believed
there might be petitions so offenfive in their j c
manner and matter, as not to be fnflered to
have a public reading ; there might be others, w
which on being read, should be found unfit to
bereferred. Of the latter kind he thought f Q
the prefenr. Certain persons, it seems, have ar
affbeiated for the purpose of military exercise, oj
and have thought proper to exprels their-very
extraordinary.fentinients to Congrela. Whe
ther these fentmien>s were founded or tin- , r(
founded, he would not enquire, but only
whether they were decently expressed. He r
admitted the right which these people had to £
exercise their opinions upon all government
measures, and that they might therefore fay
whether they thought the agents w.ho con
versed with our commiflioners were authoriz-
ed, or not. But do these proceedings go no n
farther ? Have they ihe right 10 fay that go- t]
vernment have neglected their duty ; to fay
that they have wilfully and designedly b 1 id
ed the people contrary to the interests of the
coiVimunity, by falfeiy and wantonly pervert- i(J
ing the difpatchesof our envoys for the pur-
of producing a war with the French re- t
public. , And are these suggestions not only t
to Ipe heard, but acted upon, as if they were v
proper*fubjects for their confidcration and fu-
ture debate. The very suggestion ought, in t
1 tis opinion, to have excited an indignation t
which would immediately have rejected lttch t
a paper. He was astonished to hear the gen- t
tleman from Pennsylvania, tho' he aeknow- v
Jged the impropriety of the thing, go into (
arguments in favour of referring it ; that he t
should lay weought to convince them of their t
error. He (Mr. S.) believed it they them- (
selves could not fee it, it would scarcely be
proper for the house to enter into an argu- j
ment with them on the iubject. If the charg- ,
es in this paper are founded, they lie againfl (
this house, as much as any other branch of the
government, for concurring in the publicati- J
on of the late dispatches; therefore, this
house have held out falfe colours, according
to these people , as well as the other branches
of the government. He would, at once reject
such an address ; he would fay to be fubferi
bers, " take back your suggestions—they are
altogether groundless."
Mr. Otis said, if he could consider the pa
per before the House as barely expreflive of
approbation or disapprobation of public mea
sures, he should be in favour of referring it as
.is usual, though contrary to his opinion, he
certainly would not objeft to it on that ac
count. But it appears to hint not only ex
preflive of an opinion, but a dire£l cenfare
and calumny on the whole government, and
upon our Commissioners at Paris. Who is
the person high in office that they charge with
giving a falfe colour to the late dilpatches ?
Did they allude to the Prelident. He did not
recoiled* any sentiment of hisrefpecting them.
| After being asked for the papers, he sent them.
If there was any blame imputable for the
publication of them, it lay a£ainft the other
branches of the government more than against
, him. But there were other fentinients fhll
i more illiberal. He wished to know who held
i up these dispatches as ads of the French
1 vernment ? Was it not those men who have
- 1 left their families and home, and exposed
1 themselves to the hazards of an arduous and
~ dangerous million ; who may perhaps' at this
J moment be imprifoncd for making them
known, or who may even be put to death for
their conduct in this refpett. And was it
right for the government who ernployedthem
e td receive charges againlt their Commilfion
- ers ? Was this the reward they vi fcre entitled
I to? He thought not.
» The gentleman from Pennfvjva.iia fays,
" that to refer this petition will not be to give,
any approbation to its contents ; but he (Mr.
O v ) wished the Houle to (hew its difappmba
tion of it. Afi address like this wouid give
c the French an apology for denying that they
knew any thing of the communications held
, with our Minilters, and which they would be
o afraid to do, if the thing was not aflerted on
' this fide of the water, it was in this view,
n principally, that he objected to the receiving
II of this address.
Mr. O. said he did not mean to follow the
arguments of the gentlemen from Pennsylva
nia and Virginia, who fay it is not customary
to refufe a reference to petitions. Thpugh
c this had not hitherto been the cafe, at no o
d ther tiwe had we been so critically circum
n ftanced ; at no time could a factious and fe
>f ditious spirit have been so inimical to the hap
-- pinefs ot"the country as at present. But gen
a tlemen are not willing to disgrace ihefe met)
by rehtfirtg their address a reference. There
e was no occasion for this. He saw with grief
s that the solvent of sedition had taken poflef
l_ fion of the hearts of these addreflers, and alie
nated tneir affections from their government.
c But though these are the fentinients of am i
-0 litia company, they are not the fentimentsof
» the militia of the United States. If the mi-
litia of the southern country poirefled fenti
e ments of this kind, it would be a stronger ar
gument than any other for the eftablilhment
of a regular force to protect it.
Mr. Harper believed the fentimentscon
tained in this address to be very erroneous,
e and very improperly expreHed ; nor did he
-e think, out of respeCt for the addreflers, whe-:
n ther they were a company of grenadiers, or
y forty members ot the Legislature of Pennlyl
vania, when they undertake to le«Sture the go
d vernment on account of measures which have
, r been adopted, and to tell the world that they
will produce nothing but calamity, their ad
r. dress oughf to be referred on that account,
d yet he was in favour of referring the present
proceedings ; and the reason was, he saw that
f e if this.courte was taken it would lead to end
t> less broils in the House. He conceived that
:e in the present important crisis, the people
will prefenttheir sentiments to Congress, arifl
those sentiments will be various, and some of
them improperly exprelfed. in the cafe of
the Britilh treaty, a multitude of address
were received; a • I if, whenever an address
could be objected toon account of its being
couched in t-Sns, or becauie
, t the sentiments are Objectionable, there would
.J be no end ofdifcuflions of this kind, 'and the
' , public tin fine's would !>r g'-cutly retarded.
r He admonished gentle acn »b (jvevy their ,at-
[Volume XIII.
tachment ro their country, rather by proyid*
ing measures jfcr its defence, than by depu
ting about refcinoga petition; except, in
deed, it were offtich a nature as to ca!l lor a
motion ofcenl'ure against its authors; but in
all other cases, it would be he It either to re
ceive all, or reject all the addrelies that come
lie ihould be content to fuvc none of them.
He did not want the addreflesot his constitu
ents to fay whether he had done right of
wrong ; he was willing they fliould decide
that at his election, lie should have no ob
jection to paisa motion declaring that noad
drefs of this kind should be received. Me
was delirous of fending these proceedings to
sleep among others where l hey would soon be
forgotten; but, by investigations of this kind,
an improper conlequence was given to things
of no importance in themk rves.
Mr. Sitg reaves laid, as he supposed,
that, iu common with other members, thf
gentleman from S. Carolina extended his ad
monition to him, he Ihould express his obli
gation for it; but he believed\i would have
been well if he had attended to it a little hiuv- -
felf ; ior however frivolous he deemed the
present oppofjtion, he seemed determined,
according to cnttom to have his (liare of the
debate. Thole who lay the oppoliiion to this
reference arises from the leutiincnts \shiefck
these proceedings contain, either mifunder-
Itand what lias been laid, oregregioufly inif-
Itate it. He needed not to have been told
by his colleague that the reference of a petiti
on did not go to an approbation of its senti
ments ; but it had been exprelslv ("aid, that
the objections, to this address did not go ta
the sentiments of it, but to the manner in
which thole sentiments are exprcfTc-d. No
body would have objected to the reference if
these gentlemen hud, in moderate .terms, Ha
ted that the tendency of certain meakires was
to widen the breach betwixt this country and
the French Republic ; but when they fay
this is not only the tendency, bur that it is the
deflgn and object of ecru.n per lons toinvolve
the country in war, ftich inlinuatiom ought
to be rejected as base and abominably inde
cent. Mr. S. quoted the moil objectionable
parts of the address, in of what h«
had (aid. And (hall we be told, said Mr. S.
that the dignity of the legilkiture is not ®on
cerned in repelling this language f Can the
gentleman from S. Carolina really think this
difcttfiion urtimportint, and that the Legisla
ture is frivoloully employed in repelling foci*
; language ? In his mind, the- rejeitton of fucli
an address was confident with found policy,
good sense and propriety.
Mr. Edmonu laid, he should be one of
the last who would wifli to abridge the right
of petitioning ; but at the fame time that he
would preserve to the people that right, he
should think it neceflary to observe certain
rultfs refpe£ling it. In fanning those rules
5 Congress mtift either agree to receive every
J petition, or eftablilh a criterion by which to»
determine when a petition lhall be received,
■ and when itfhall not. How, said he, do the
1 Court* of Law aft in this refpeit } Every
I man has a right to apply therjk and to ftat»
s his ground of complaint, bat ff he deviates
1 from the fubjett matter'of his complaint, in
f order to (lander the Court, they would cer
-1 tainly immediately dismiss fucli an applicati
* on. He concluded that this House would a
* dopt a similar rule ; but if they went further
e and said thatif two-thirds of a petition be just
r and right, and the other third slanderous and
* abusive, the latter shall be overlooked for the
1 fake ot the former, would it not follow, that
1 men who wifti to abufethe government, would
- take this course of doing it i They certainly
c would. If all petitions, however exprelled,
' were to be received, what would be the con-.
(equence ? It would be the lame as to fay,
s every man may abuse the government in as
n gross terms as he pleased, by way of petition
r or remonstrance, and it would not be refilled
* by Congrels ; and the coufcquence would be,
n that their table woiil,d be.covered with libel*
and (edition. He believed the proper rule
d would be, that whenever petitions are ex
l>rein decent language, they ought *o be
referred; but whenever tne'y cq ltdinany thing 1
e I slanderous or seditious, lie would not refer
'• them.
But the gentleman from S. Carolina fays,
e a great deal of.time woujd be taken up in dif
y culling the propriety or impsopnety of receiv
d ing petitions, and therefore Congress ought
c to come ro a resolution to receive all, or none.
n If gentlemen are disposed to lengthen out de
> bates of this kind, they may certainly do so ;
£ but he saw no necelfity for it. He should
think the simple reading of a petition was fuf
e (iciest for members to form an opinion upon
- it. He saw no better course which could be
v taken.
* Mr. Rutledge believed that in refuting
- to commit the refolutio/is of the Virginia peace
- Grenadiers, the House would have nothing to
- apprehend from the' precedent their refufal
- would eltablifl); for it was his good fortune
- to believ« there does not exist, in the United
n States, another let of men who would express
e lo Congress their sentiments in such difref
peefcful terms —their sentiments were not only
indecent, but ex pre (fed in themoft difreipefi
- ful manner, The grena iiers of Portsmouth,
not content with expreflin * their opinions of
- our attempts to negociate with France, for
>f wh eh p'irpofe they had alfcmbled, had taken
- a review of all the recent public measures, and
- wilhing to inflame the public mind against
them, had condemned them in mass, and
it conducted thcmfelves with the mod studied
indecency. He said studied indecency, because
i- they had not forwarded their indecent me
inorial with a request to their Representative
ro lay it before Cgngrefs,. but had refolvcd
■ - that he should have po/uive orders lo do so.
t Knowing how (enfible he wou-.ld be of their
I- improper conduit [Mr. Parker the
>- Speaker to read the words of till initiations }
e they were 44 that rhey be forwarded to our
v Representative to be Laid before congress" j
I- Mr. R. was glad to rind that these gentle
t, men had, upon reflection, corrected their
it flyle ; he had read an account in the Norfolk
it paper of their proceedings, and in that their*
1- Representative was on/ered, as he hadnienti
at oned. These persons, however, Ijad some
le reafoi for distrusting their keprefentatives,
for he had uniformly voted for fomc of thofc
of mesiHires which they had anathematized, as
of calculated to ruin the country, and deltroy
es the liberties of its citizens, lie had voted for
fs • liaving a navy ; he had voted lor augmenta
ig tion of our military elUbliflunent ; and these
le persons us li that an army and a navy ar»
Id contrary to the fpiiSt of a free gQvernmunt,
i- i and calculated ief> toward olf feneign infuit ,
d. J than to nrAduce domestic iiot
t- j contenthave, that we are the Serraiitt of the People,
t.le> Have leized this occafioii of charging ui
with the intention of bringing about domcftic
fubjugatioh.
. B' l * gentleman from Pennsylvania fays,
if th s be their opinion, the people have a
right to exprefsit. It is true, Mr. R. laid,
that any man has a right t«» fend another an
indecent letter ; but the porfon to whom it it
addrelfed has also the right to fay whether he
will receive it or not. These gentlemen might
nave laid, oar commifTioners were scoundrels;
they had aright to fay so, by the reafeningof
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, but it cer
tainly would not be proper for Congress to
give such a paper a reference, it was not an
extreme cale, to suppose the Virginia Gre
nadiers thought our fcnvoys scoundrels, for
there were many', of their way of thinking on
political fubjectt, who regarded thedifpatch
fes as a fabrication of the Knvo/S and the Ex
ecutive, contrived for the purpose of involv
ing us in a war with' France, and he had been
told thar half the people of this city believed
the Executive had practised this deception.
Whatever right people may have to hold and
ekprefs these opinions, he thought if they
were fenr ro Congress they ought not to be
Countenanced by a reference.
But gentleman fay, addrefles approving of
the conduct of the Executive and the govern
ment are received objection, whilst
those with contrary sentiments are frequently
objected again#. This was r.ot the cafe ; if
gentieinen would recollect the proceedings of
yesterday, the day before, and of every day
for twenty or thirty days past, they would fee
that thischarge was nor founded. What was
the nature of the firft addresses which were
lent to Congress on thefubject of our present
situation ? It would be recollected they all
opposed arming our vessel- and deprecated
tne meafuresas leading to war. They were,
however, exprefled in decent terms, and tho*
in opposition to the opinions of a majority of
this house, they were received without ob.
-je£tion. One of these petitions from the eart.
yard presented by the gentleman who (its be
hind him, (Mr. Varnum) was objected toby
a gentleman from Connecticut, he conceiv
ing, on hearing it read, that it contained
some improper and he did not
tvl/h to deny it a reference, but merely re
cjuefted it might lie on the table for a day
it was however immediately committed.* Mr.
R. knew that the people had a right to peti
tion, and that it was the duty of Congress to
attend to their representations; but he also
knew that it was the duty of Congress to
refpeit themselves ft> iar, as to require these
petitions to be expreflfed in decent terms.
What, said .Mr. R. will be the effect in Eu
rope of receiving petitions like the present ?
What will the French Executive (a body in
which every species of corruption is perfoni
fle<l) fay to it? They will not only deny the
truth of what our Commiflioaers have relat
ed, bur they will fry to the people or France,
they .vi!l fay to the people of Europe, "even
in America this calumny is not believed."—
The converfattons of Talleyrand, X, Y, and
Zy as reported by our Commillloner», they
will fay is a mere contrivance, she production
the Anglo, Mduarchtco, Ariftocratico fac
tion in America. They will fay rhis, and
corroborate it by referring to some of the
fpeechtfs in Congress, and the petition on the
table, in which the French agents are called
unauthorized persons, and their villainy spo
ken of, not with contempt and abhorrence,
but with ridicule. This would be giving to
Citizen Talleyrand and his aflociates the best
judication thev can offer for themselves.
Ms. R. hopca, therefore, the refolntions
would not be referred.
(To ie continued.)
Tht fotlaruwg Lette* from the Secretary of the
Treasury, to the Chairman of the Committee of
IPtys and Means, exhibits a calculation of the
qurtas oj the refpetlrve States, in a tax of two
millions of dollars, proportioned to the number
of free ivhite persons, and three-fifths of the
number of slave as ascertained by the Cenfas.
LETTER.
T4?esfiVry Department, May 15th, 1798.
SIR, TT/WING been requeued'to ex-
XjL hibita calculation of the quo
tas of the refpettive states in a tax of two
millions of dollars, proportioned to the num
ber of tree white nprfons, and three-fifths of
the number of Haves, as afcertarned by the
census j also my opinion of w hat would be a
proper rule for apportioning to individuals
the proposed tax on lands, houses and (laves,
I refpectfully iubmit the following refultsand
observations.
The enumeration or census by which the
tax mutt be apportioned, was taken with re
ference to the firft Monday of August, 1790,
tfrhen the number of persons in the United
Srates was as follows :
Free white males of sixteen years
and upwards, including heads of
families,
Free white males under si x teen years 802,117
white females, including heads
of families, 1,556,681
Other free persons, exclulive of
Indians, 59,511
'Total number of free persons, ex
clusive of Indians, 3,*31,631
Slaves 697,697, of which number
three-fifth parts are taken, or, 418,619
Total, or representative number, 3,650,150
The following are the quotas of the respec
tive ftatcSj in a tax of two millions of dollars,
calculated according to their relative num
bers of free persons, exclufiveof Indians,and
including three-fifths of the number of (laves;
to wit : Dollars,
The quotaofNew Hamplhire, 771705.36.'
Malfachufetts, 160,435.31.1
Khode-Ifland, 37,501. 8.
Connefiicut, 119,767. .1
Vermont, 46,864.18.7
New.York, 181,680.70.7
New-Jersey, 9 5 >3 8 7-»5-3
Pennsylvania, 137,177.71.7
Delaware, 30,430.79.1
Maryland, 151,599-95-4
Virginia, 345,488.66.5
Kentucky, 37.«43-99-7
North-Carolina, 193,697.96.5
Tenneifte, 18,806.38.3
South-Carolina-, 111,997.73.9
Georgia, 38,814.87.5
Total of the proposed tax, »,000,000.
It is proposed that the direst tax be alTefled
to individuals in the following manner -
ift. On dwelling houses, to be diliributed in
to nine clafles, and taxed uniformly in each
class.
ad. On (laves, to be taxed uniformly.
3d. On lands, to be taxed at such a rate ad
valorem in each (late, as with the (urns of
fered on houses and (laves, »il^ produce
the entire amount of the sums apportioned
to the refpeflive dates.
It being proposed to la* dwelling houles
and rtave», by uniform rules, ah estimate of
the sums which may be afltflfed on these ob
jects, appears to be important.
I ft. Of J-welling bouset —The number of
free persons in the United States, in the year
90,17 was 3,131,631 —The number at present
may be eftiinated at tour millions—fit is com
puted that there is a dwelling houle forevery
fevqfc perfons—ol course, that tbeie are about
five hundred and seventy thuufand dwelling
houses ih the United States.
It is propofed,.by the bill as reported, to
elempt from fpecific taxation,
with the lots on which they are ereiled', 1 not
exceeding two acres in any cafe, of which the<
value, is less than two hundred dollars. It is
important toafcertain what would bethe pro
bable effect of an exemption of this nature,
and it is much to be regretted that the public
documents afford no certain data for calcula
tion. After a due consideration of informa
tion, recently obtained, it however appears
probable, that a much more considerable
number of houses would be exeihpted than
was contemplated by the committee —owing
to the great number of settlements which have
been lately formed, and the moderate value
of land, in large diTlriAs of the United States,
it is not unlikely that two hundred and twenty
thousand houses would be included in the ex
emption, as houses are believed to be the inoli
certain and eligible obje&s of taxation, to
which resort can be had ; as incovenie.nces
might arise from an exemption in favor of
what probably is the mod numerous defirip
tiou ot houses in some parts of the country,
and as in new settlements dwelling houses of
small value ought not to be considered as in
dications of poverty, the following claflifica
tion, which is somewhat different from that
reported, is refpeftfully submitted, to wit
lit Clafs—Tocomprizc all lioufesand lots not
exceeding two acres, 011 which the fame are
eretted, exceeding eighty dollars in value,
, and not exceeding two hundred dollars,
ad Oafs —To comprize all houses and lots,
exceeding in value two bundled dollars
and not exceeding fix hundred dollars.
3d Class—To comprize all houses and lot
exceeding in value fix hundred dollars, and
not exceeding twelve hundred dollars.
4th Class—To comprize all houses and lots
exceeding in value twelve hundred dollars,
and not exceeding two thousand dollars.
sth Class—To comprize all houses and lots
exceeding in value two thousand dollars,
and not exceeding four thousand dollars.
6th Class—To comprize all houses and lots
exceeding in value four thousand dollar*,
and not exceeding fix thousand dollars.
7th Class—To coiijprize all houses and lots
exceeding in value fix thousand dollars, and
not exceeding ten thousand dollars.
Bth Clals—To comprize all houses and lo!s
exceeding in valu« ten thousand dollars,and
not exceeding twenty five thouland dol
lars.
9th Class—To comprize all houses and lots
exceeding in value twenty five thousand
dollars.
Notwithttanding it is proposed to aflefs a
tax on all houses exceeding the value of eigh
ty dollars, yet a considerable number would
(lill remain exempted—lt is probable, howe
ver, that if the above mentioned rule of claf
fification should be adopted, that five hun
dred thousand houses would be included.
The following estimate of the number of
houses of each class, and rate of aUefTment,
are submitted to the committee.
Doiiari,
ill Class 150,000 jo cents
each 7J,000
id Class 100,000 do. at Dolls, 1. 50, 300,000 :
3d Clals 100,000 do. at 3 300,000 '
4th Class 30,000 do. at 6 180,000,
sth Class 10,000 at la 110,000 |
6th Class 5,000 at 10 100,000 !
7th Class 3,000 at 30 90,000 1
Bth Class <,509 at 60 90,000
9th Class 500 at no 60,000
5OO.&00
■lJflimate yfthe produiSl of the pro
posed tax onTioufes dolls. 1,315,000
id. Of Slaves.—A tax of two millions of
dollars apportioned to the aggregate number
of free persons in the United States, and to
two-fifths of the number of Haves according
to the census, would be as follows :
Proportion of 3,131,631, freeper
fons, «.77°,63j-43
Proportion of 418,619, being
three-fifths of the number of
Oaves, 119,364.57
Total 1,000,000
The number of (laves in the United States
Jias probably increased since the time when,
the cenlus was taken ; but as it will doubtless
be deemed advifeable to exempt certain de-
Icriptions, especially the aged and infirm, it
will not be fafe to calculate on a greater num
ber than fix hundred thouland taxable (laves.
A tax of thirty-eight cents on each (lave, may 1
be calculated to produce, dollars 118,000. —
This sum nearly corresponds with the ratio of
afTefTment to (laves according to the couftitu
tion, which may be presumed to afford a rule
equally equitable in refpett to individuals.
3d, Of Landi—According to the preceding
estimate, the tax on houles, as proposed,
would produce dollars, 1,315,000
And the tax on (laves, 118,000
Leaving to be raised by an aflefl
ment ad valorem, upon lands, the
sum of 457,000
Amount ofthe proposed tax,dolls. i,0e0,000
The sum proposed to be afl'efled on lands,
will be found to be less in proportion to other
objects, than would be payable in mod ofthe
dates if the date fyllems should be adopted :
It mud also appear to be a tax really mode
rate when the immense value of that species
of property in the United States is duly con
sidered.—The variety of the principles upon
which the date afTefTments have been formed,
precludes, however, the podibility of anefti
mate of the probable rate of affeflinent in the
different dates.
To facilitate the receipt of the tax into the
Treasury ; to exemplify the operation of the
law upon the different objefls of taxation ;
to diminish the risk of collection ; and render
the burden as light as polfible to individuals ;
it is proposed that the proportions to be laid
on houses and daves should be immediately
alfelfed and palled to the credit of the respec
tive quotas of dates ; while these parts of the
tax are in a course of collection, arrangements
can be made for taking a valuation of the
lands, and apportioning the balances, to b*'
frolledted as a second indalment of the propo
ed tax. \
I have the honor to be,
• with perfect respect,
Sir,
your obedient servant,
OLIVER WOLCOTT.
Hon. Robert Goodloe Harper, Esq.
Chairman of the Committee of Ways
and Means.
TO BE SOLD, BY
John Nixon is? Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOG WOOD
MOW LANDING AT 1 HEIR WBA{F>
Xije (Easette.
- ~ -
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Mat 31.
CONGRESS.
Yesterday, the House of Reprelentatives of
the United States, in committee of the whole,
were again engaged in difcufling the motion
of Mr. Gallatin to ftiike out that Jeclion
of the bill for laying and collecting Direct
Taxes, which went to lay three-fourths of
the Two Millions of Dollars proposed to be j
raised by* tax on lands, houses and slaves,
to be railed from houses, the queliion upon |
which, after a long difculTion, was carried
4j to 39. The committee then rose and had ,
leare to fit again.—A bill was reported by '
Mr. Sewall, and made the order for this,
day, for suspending all commercial inter- |
course betweeen the United States and the
French Republicand itsdependencies. The j
Senate informed the house that the President
had approved and signed the art for raising a
Provilional Army, and the art for the further '
protection of the Commerce and Coasts of the
United Stares.—A refoluttpf was proposed to
the house by Mr. Macon propoling an ad
journment of both Houses ofCongrel's on the
t4thofJune. On motion of Mr. Harper, it
was ordered to lie on the table till this day. j
The following address was presented to the
President of the United States, by Mr.
Hanna.
Tothi PRESIDENT •» Tup "UNITED STATES.
The address of the Inhabitants of Middletown
and its vicinity, in the county of Dauphin
andJlale of Pennsylvania.
S 1 a,
AT a period so interefling as the present,
when the political situation of the United
States has become so precarious with refpe£t
to the belligerent powers, and especially
the French Republic ; at a time when a
haughty nation, evidently aspiring to the
dominion of the nniverfe and the subjuga
tion of all nations, are repeatedly commit
' ting the most aggravated and unprovked
I depredations 011 »ur commerce, refufing to
attend to the just remonstrances of our go
vernment, treating with the most pointed
contempt and negleft its representatives, j
who are furnilhed with the most ample '
powers and inftruftions for adjusting and 1
terminating all our differences amicably, and
j with unparalleled effrontery declaring to '
; the world that we are a divided people, dif
-1 fatisficd with our government, and under
j the arbitrary influence of a foreign nation :
at such a time it becomes a. duty incumbent
on every true and unprejudiced American
to come forward, and, by an open and can
did avowal of his fentimcntt, to
rescue his country from the odium attempt
ed to be cast upuu.by fucli calumnious
afpe^rtre.
We therefore, the fnbfcribers, imprefled ,
with a proper regard for the welfare and I
; happiness of our country, do beg you, Sir, '
i to accept this public teflimony of our .entire
I approbation of the measures adopted by the
j Executive, and relying with the fulleft con
; fidence on "your wisdom, integrity, and
patriotic exertions, in concert with the
other branches of the Legislature, we shall
deem it our indispensable duty to he ready
upon all occasions, with cheerfulnefs, to
contribute, as much as in our power lies, to
the support of government, and the vindi
cation of our national honor and indepen
dence.
With these sentiments, Sir, we offer
our sincere and unfeigned wishes for your
personal happiness and prosperity, and that
your services in a political capacity, may
ever meet the deserved approbation of your
country. •
(Signed by 147,)
May 19th, 1798.
To the inhabitants of Middletown, audits vi
cinity, in the county of Dauphin, andflate
of Pennsylvania.
Gentlimin,
THIS concise, but comprehensive ad
dress, contains every affnrance, which the
government can dtfire, from the best of ci
tizens at this critical moment.
To me, it is particularly obliging, and
deserves my thanks, to the public, it must
be fatisfa£tory, and will receive its ap- 1
plaufe. JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 30th, 1798. 1
1
To IKI PRESIDENT of thi UNITED STATES
or AMERICA:— ,
The refpeSful address of the Siibfcribcrs, In- |
habitants of the Town of Ncwp.'rt, in the 1
State f Rhode-IJland and Providence-Plan- ]
tations. 1
Sik, j
AT this alarming erifis, when a foreign i
powtr cherifhts the unfounded and danger- i
ons opinion, that the people and the govern- I
ment of the United .Mates are divided, and (
is thereby eneouraged to entertain the most !
hostile projects again ft both ; we consider it 1
our duty, to decl ire to yeu and the world, t
that our affections are wedded to our con- t
ftitutioh and our government, that all the (
objefts of your administration, and the t
means by which they have l»;en pursued,
particularly as they regard the republic of
France, pofTefi our most cordial approbation
and gra etui applause '
Believing peace to be the true policy of'
our country, we rejoice to find, by your
inftruitions to our Envoys, that you have <
endeavoured, by every prudent and honora
ble expedient, to avert the calamities of war, 1
and to preserve uudiminifhed, the public t
harmony and prosperity ; and we are con- t
fcious that you could not have gone further, i
iu the pursuit of this object, without vio
lating tbe good faith, prostrating the honor, 1
or surrendering the independence of the J
United States. t
On an o cafion so intcrefting, we beg t
leave to offer you the aflurance* of our re- a
fpeft; solemnly pledging ourselves, that, t
by Uniting closely with the government, re- t
posing in it a liberal confidence, acquiescing t
cheerfully in whatever burdens the public
exigencies nay require, we will, with zeal,
with perseverance, and ill the energy of »
people determined to be free and indepen
dent, refill foreign influence, and repel
foreign aggreflion.
(Signed by 317 person*.)
To the Inhabitants of the Town of Newport,
in (he Stnte of Rhode-Island and Providence-
Plantations.
OKNTLRMKN,
I THANK you for this cordial ad
dress. When you declare to the world,
that your affections are wedded to your con
i dilution and government j that all the ob
'jeits of my administration and the means by
| which they have been pursued, particularly
aa they regard the Republic of France, pof-
I fefs your mod cordial approbation and
( grateful applause ; that 1 have end avorcd,
| by every prudent and honorable exp.dient,
• to avert the calamities of war, and prcf rve
. undiminifh-d, the public harmony and prol
perity, and that I could not ha i, e gone
furthei»in pursuit of tb< fe objrAs, without
' violating tile faith, proflrating the honor,
or ftirrendering the iidepeudence of the
United States , that by uniting closely with
the government, repoiing in it a liberal con
fidence, acquiefctng cheerfully in whatever
| burthens the public exigencies may require,
1 you will, with Zealand perfeverancc, and all
the energy of a people determined to bi
free and independent, refill foreign influence
and repel foreign aggression ; —you deserve
well of your country, and command my
molt heartv thanks.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May lith, 1798.
IVE, tie Young Men of tit City of Ntio-Brunfwicl,
mi ill vicinity, i„ tit countUi of Mtddlcfrx and Sonurf.t,
beg leave to pnfent onrfelvet before tie President •/ the
United Statej, and to make * tender of our fervicet and
live• in support of tie independence and libei tiet of our
country.
art fenjiblc, that every things *which jujiice and
found £Ol icy ceuld difiafe, las been done for the fr Nerva
tion of pease n,i:h tb+Frcncb Republic ; and it is -with
regret ivt learn, that all conciliatory meafuret Lave proved
intfftftual. France will not hear. France, per bap t, is
confious, that Jbe has injured and infalted us too deeply ever
to forgive. Her ambition Las no bounds ; ne*iv vifloriet
and nrtv conquers serve only to fan its flame. "To fie
nations buntbled'y degraded, and projlrate at ber feet is her
pleajure, and ber pride. Nothing fbort of enjlaving the
world -will fate her appetite for rule. What u ber lan
guage end rvbat her conduft to the American government !
Ask pardon for the outrages and insults againfl you, and
pay for the spoliations on your commerce, and then your
commijjioners of peace Jball be admitted to an audience.
Dread our diplomaticJiill—Remember the fate of Venice ;
Jbe is nomore—Knoyt, that you are a dividedpeople, and
that our party in your country is Jlrong, and ready to fir ike.
Is this the language, and the demeanor of one republic
tfaanotber t What more can the Jefpot fay to his tributa
ry and Jlave ?
Obedience to the laws, reverence for our federal conjlitu
tion, and love for our country mere early and deeply im
pressed on our minds. When that country cal{s, ive Jball
not be deaf to ber voice. For our livee xve bold cheap
when put in competition with our national honor and
independence.
May tbe Eternal dirtß our public councils, and long
preserve our Clief Magijtrate / May our confiitution
and union be perpetual, and our country free and lappy /
[SifW by 110.1
To tie YOUNG MEN of tl, City of A'cwßrnnf
vticb and ill vicinity, in th Countiei of Middlesex
and Somerfrt, in tie State of Ntw Jtrfey.
Gentlemen,
1 tnoro not wittier any addreft ever exprefftd more
sense in so few worth.
J under/land tbe language of France at you interpret it;
II AJb pardon for tit outrages and infulfTwt lave com
-14 mined on your commerce, and then a man vtobo fayi be
" lat some influence will use it to procure for yonr En
" voye an audience." Can a Young man wijb for long
life in a country, so degraded, lelow tbe cbaraiter of man,
at to submit to fuel infulit T '
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 34.
ADRRESS
From the Citizens of thetownfhips of Am
well, Readington and Kingwood, in the
State of New-Jersey.
To the Prejidmt of the United States.
six,
We should do violence to the refpeft and
loyalty we possess for our firft magistrate,
and the attachment, love and veneration
which we entertain for our constitution and
cherish for our country, if we were to re
main silent when our honour is inftihed, our
interests injured and our national rights vio
lated ; we profefs. Sir that we once were
attached to the French nation and anxiously
wifked ihat they might accompiifh the
avowed objeit of their i evolution ; l)B>, Sir,
we never will permit our zeal for any nation
to induce us to lose fight of the honour, In
terest, dignity & freedomof ourowncountry.
We have maiuiely considered the attempis
you have ma e to preserve an honorable
peace with the French republic, and we
hive with their tffeft. We ap
prove of and admire the pacific disposition,
the wisdom, the dignified love of country
and the liberal policy difcovcrable in your
intlructionstoourenvcys extraordinary; and
we m. .ft heartily despise the corrupt, the
servile, and the tributary conditions, offer
ed to us by the agents of the Direftory.
Sjr, we are not divided from oar govern
ment—we highly approve of the administra
tion of it—and we will, with our property
and fervicei, support it, and every aft of our
conftitutcd authorities, in defiance of the
threats or power of any nation on earth.
S. R. STEWART, Chairman.
L. W. STOCKTON, Secretary.
To the Citizens of the Totvnjhips of Am-aell,
Readington, and Kingtvood, in New-
7 er f<y■
CENTLIMEN,
THE refpefl you profefr. for your firft
Magistrate is obliging to him, and your at
tachment, love and veneration f<*r your
confiitution and country, wi 1 be amiable
in the eyes of all men.
The attachment you profefs- for the
French nation was comijion to you, and to
America in general ; but never was the at
tachment of one nation to another so wan
tonly, capriciously, so insolently despised
and thrown away. All great things have
begun in contempt —the Roman Empire
the French Republic—and to rife infinitely
higher than both for an example, the Cbrif
tian Religion itfelf nigh be cited : Our
American world exhibits another inftance—
but mark the iflue ; —this contempt will be
changed into refpett and admiration, and I
hope to live to fee tlac time and to rejoice
with you in it.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 2stb, 1798.
4t a numerous and refpedable meet ing of the
c tiz ns of %ueen Ann s county in fbt Jiate of
Maryland at the town of Centre WUah Tburf
day the 17th of May % James Kent, esq. <u>as
uimrfimoufly appointed chairman. and the sol
loetui ig refo/utlou <was unanim ufly Adopted :
Resolved, That James Tilghman, JofhuaSe
ney, Joleph Hopp»r Nichoifon, Richard Titgh
man Earle and William Carmichael, esquires be
a committee to prepare an address to the Presi
dent, Senate and Honfe of Keprefentatives of
the United State® approbating the conduct of the
Executive in the late negotiations with the re
• public of France, and pledging our live* and
fortunes to support our country in repelling any
invasion or upon our foveriegnty and in
dependence.
Whereupon the committee retired and after
I'omc time reported to t!?e meeting the following
address which was unarnmoufly agreed la.
To the Pr FfiDFN t, and House of y
UEPRfcSKNTATJVFS of theti NITRD STATES
of America.
The critical situation into which America
has been thrown by the late condudl of a foreign
nation, having justly excited the attention cf
our fellow citizens throughout the LJr.ii>n a VVe
the p;ople of Queen Ann's county in the, State
of Maryland, feeling ourfrlves deeply intercfted
in the common cause of our country have aflem
bled for the purpose of exprefling our fentimentt
on the present profpe.s) of our political affairs.
With pleasure we inform you that the inflec
tions of our Executive tothe Envoys of the Unit
ed States lately commiflioned to the republic of
France, are in our opinion calculated to pro
mote peace and harmony with that nation and
meet our entire approbation. We feel the ut
most indignation at any threat to destroy our in
dependency and at the fuggefiion of the idea
that we could poflibly be a dividec} people when
the great intercfts of oi%r country arc at itake.
We lament that all exertions for the continuance
of peace have hitherto proved fruitlefs ; but we
took up to the conftitured authorities of our
government with the firmeft reliance on their
wisdom and their virtue to prepare us for ap
proaching events, and if we are at last compell
ed to uiifheathe the sword in defence of our
common rights, the people of America may
with confidence appeal to the God of nations
for the justice of their cause.
War the fata! fco »rge of mankind we conffder
as thehcavieft of all human calamities ;& would
approve of every measure to avert itsrhorrors,
which would be cenfittent with our national
honor. But while we deplore it as the curse of
nations, permit us to offer you our assurance*,
that if war is the dreadful alternative to which
we must eventually resort, we are ready at the
expence of our lives and fortunes to defend tbofe
rights which our fathers and ourselves during our
glorious revolution contributed to establish, —
whatever may be our attachment to the princi
ples of the French revolution, whatever anxiety
we may feel for the establishment of a govern
ment in France on the basis of the equal rights
of mankind, the fame spirit of patriotism which
proclaimed our freedom and independence, a
gain loudly calls upon us to remember that we
are Americans and commands us to prefer the
intereftsof that country which gave us birth to
those of any otherin the-univerfe.
JAMES KEN 7, chairman.
To JOHN ADAMS, PPESIDENTof the UNIT
ED STATES.
SIR,
THE grand jurors for the county of Plymouth, in
the comotonwealth of MafTachufetis, attending at the
fupremejudicial court for fa id county, have been led
by their own reflection* on the coutie of events, and
by the excellent and impreflive observations of the
chief justice in his charge the opening of the court,
to contemplate the political fit nation or our country
—Many oi us have iound it difficult to believe, that
a naticn avowedly ftrugglingf >r liberty and indepen
dence, (hould att( mot to invade or impai- tho e blef
fongs where they are quietly and ful y enjoyed. But
the experience of several of the yea; aof our hf
tory, has convinced us of our mifLke While occu
pied in our peaceful labors, wo hjvc seen the fruits
of those tabors piu dcr«d and condemned, on frivo
ldi)S and groundless pretences, by profefled friends.
Our tranquility has been dilluibed bv incelTaniaprea 3
to the pafliona of the people, by factious and defigr
ingmen; and by repeated and audacious at temp sto
separate the people from the governmentour sin
cere desire for prace ha> been met with negieft or
contempt ! and odious and extravagant demands,dic
tated by rapacity and a third tor boundL »nle, have
been made the urms of negociation. In such • crifia
wt en ail that is dear and va uablet - freemen, when li
berty and independence, national honor, social order,
and public falcty appear to be in danger—a danger
which union alone, under the blefiagof heaven, can
repel: wc thinjt it not improper, to step alido from
the ordinary dutie* of our office, and to exprcfa to
you our grateful acknowledgments for the firtnnefe
and discretion with which you have encountered such
new ard peculiar difficulties. We are allured that
'all the energies of out consmon country, will aid you
in luch a caule.
We pray the Cod of all intelligence to oreferve the
force of your mind unabated, and in any arduous is
sue, to which the art* or arms of fucccisful violence
may compel us, wc ple.lge ourselves * 4 as become
faithful citizens of this happy count*yv a* ine-mao,
to come forward in the dtr oce of ~1 thai is d*ar to
us" Plymouth May 17, 1798.
JOHN TORREY Foreman.
Samuel Robhins, Matthew Nafh,
Joseph Bartlett, John Bradford,
William At wood, Aaron Magune. ,
Samuel S'etfpri, Samuel Si Scurtivartd,
Svlvauui Sampson, Sow Baker,
Silas Morcton, Charles Cole,
Lemur 1 Little, . J,.b Vinal,
Job P crce, George Blye,
Gcrfhain Fofler, 'feowland Leonard. .
The chief j ftice is requcfted by the grand juror#
to forward this to the Prc&dentof the United S.ates*
It has been accord ly forwarded.
ANSWER :
To the Inhabitan 1$ of the town of Salem»
in the State of MaJfathufctts.
Gentlemen,
THIS Addrefs,fubferibed with such una-j
nimity by the inhabitants of your mod an :
cient town, whose simplicity, economy ia
duftry, entcrprize, int< lligence, and conse
quent independence and opulence, form a
model defcrving the imitation of all )Our
commercial fellow,citizens, ought to have
great weight, wherever it appears.
, The interference ot the people, by ref
pe&ful expreflipns of their sense to the Legi
slature, at all times their right cannot be de
nied to be expedient at such a irae as this
when the leaders of a great nation are inflex
ibly pursuing the oiotl injurious and baneful
designs against us, and flattering themselves
with a profpeft of success, by a reparation
of th# people from the government, of your
difpofttiou and endeavours to disappointihefe tupeflations, no manj who knows you.
will doubt. 1
Your fatiafaiftion with the meafnres of the
Executive is very grateful to me ; a d your
ftpreme dependc>ceon the patronage of the
Mod High—the firm confidence you repose
in the wifdomand fidelity of our rulers, with
the deady patriotism, and combined exer
tions, of our fellow citizens, for maintaining
a vigorous defence—l trud will not be dis
appointed.
The determination, at every hazard, to
fuppurt the government of your choice, and
the high eftiination iu which you hold your
rights as a firee, independent people, for
which you have once contended, and which
it is youi fettled pttrpofe never to resign, are
worthy of your charafters and will be fully
* credited by aH the world.
JOHN ADAMS-
Philadelphia May 12. 1798.
ALEXANDRIA, May 20.
' In Council 6th May 1798.
Whereas it appears by the expreffian of
the gs-mrral Opinion, mSde at a meeting of
the Inhabitants afTemhleJ for the purpose,
thet it is expedient to adopt certain measures
for placing the to".vii in a podureof defenc»
it is therefore
Refolvcd, by the in yor and commonalty,
That they Jo approve i f the meafuies pr»-
pole j, :uid _t!iat thty will co-operate with
theii lellow cu.zons.in the promotioft of so
laudable and ntredary an objed. and that
tbey will from time to time ordain such le
quifitions as the piofecution of it may re
quire, and which (hall be confident with
their powers and ihe refuurce ofthe town.
Refolyed 3lfo, Thatihey will become re
fpoulible for the prefer vat ioti and return of
such arms snd accoutreineuts as may be ob
tained Irom the executive of Virginia, for
the purpnfe in view—and that the mayor be
requested to make application t(.|the exec
utive of Virginia for a loan of 500 dand of
arms and accoutrements, to be dtpufited in
the town of Alexandria, for the defence of
the said towr. ; and that he be authorised,
on behalf of the corporation, to engage the
fafe keeping and .return of the said arms
when called for. '
E ASTON, (Maryland) May 22.
About J o'clock, P. M. on Thursday the
I Ho/ Juue, 1797, Brtfey Newman, a wo
man living in iny family, was bit by a viper
on her left »rui, about four inches from the
hand, when die was gathering Strawberries.
—I heard nothing of it till sunset—Her arm
fwelleti a little with an acute pain—She took
a fpeonful of sweet oil,and I applied cold mud
to her arm—(he felt instant ease—The appli
cation was continued till datL— no inflamma
tion remained at 9 o'clock at night, and she
became perfc&ly well by the s'h day of the
fame month.
W. G.
CHARLESTON, May 8.
We have been favored with a cojy ofthe fol
lowing excellent and just decree, given by
the judie of the Vice.Admiralty Court of
Naffdli, in the cafe of a schooner b longing
to this port, taken and sent in there a few
weeks ago, dollars and a
valuable cargo on board, by the Brilifh
frigate Fhetis, Captai > Cochran.
Upon the whole I am of opinion that the
said Ichoouer HeAor is American property.
That the claimant He>bert Read, removed
frrm his own country in a time of perfeft
peace and became acitizen ofthe United States
before ihe ratificati >u of the treaty of amity,
commerce and navigation between Great-
Britain ar.d the said United States and that
by the said treaty,.he is to all intents and.pur
prfes to be confide-red as a citizen of the said
United States That I homas Frjifer. part
owner of the goods on board the said fell.* ner
Heftor is in the f.me fitiiation.—T)\'t the
citizens of America have a right as neutrals
to trade to an I from the ports of the Spanish
dominions, and also to and from the British
por(s—That it is a known faft, that the com
manders ofthe Bri ifh fleets and armirs at St.
Domingo, and the cu'iomhoufe officers there,
have granted licences to Spanish subjeCts to
bring provisions and other refrefhments for
the use of his Majedy's troops and fleets—
That no fraud or collusion in the present cafe
has appeared, but the business has been carri
ed on openly avowedly, and in confeqiience
of the before mentioned licence. Ido there
fore hereby dismiss the said libel as wholly
unsupported by any proof anil do ailjudge,
fentcnce and decree, that the said schooner
Heflor, wit's the tackle, apparel and furni
ture and thr goods, wares and
nigtey and bullion laden on board t e fame,
and libelled it aforcfaid, be retiored to the
claimant Robert Read a; American, neutral
property, and that the captors pay the cods
of the suit.
NEW-PROVIDENCE, April 17.
Bahama Islands.
By his Execllency William Dowdefwell, Ffquirr,
Captain General and governor in v hies in and
over the Bahama Iflaiids, Chancellor, Vice Ad-
R-ir.il, and Ordinary of the fame.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS it is judged expedient that the ad
mifli™ of provisions and lumber in neutral velTels
ftioulii be allowed and permitted : I do therefore,
by and with the confedt of his majefly's honourable
council, issue thii my proclamation, allowing and
permitting the following articles to be imported in
to tke ports of Najptu, Exuma, 'foirt'j IJland and Saint
Gmrjt, as well in neutral as in Britilh bottoms un
til otherwise ordered, viz. corn, all forts of grain
and pulft, flour and bread, rice, every species of
faked provillons, cattle and live fleck of all kinds,
«id all forts of lumber : of which the officers of his
mayfly's cuftnms, and all others whom it may con
cern, are desired to take due notice, and govern
thcmfelvrs accordingly,
<Ji veil under my hand and the seal of the said
lflauds, at Nalfau, New-Providence, the four
teenth day of March, in the year of our Lord
one thouland ftwen hundred and ninety-cighr,
and in the thirty-eighth year of his Majelly's
reign.
W. DOWDESWEIX.
#7/ E.mllrfity'i ,-opimiLta.
Adam ChsvStu,.Secretary.
Gadfa<vt the King.
<r>a3ttte,
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Mat 31.
This day the bill providing !W a iWpct.fion x>f in
tercourse between the United Mates and France and
her dependencies pafled to the third reaaing in the
House of Representatives
FIRE!
On Sunday afternoon lad, about 3 o'clock,
the feat of Hubert Shewell, esq. known by the
name of I'ainfwick, iu Buck's cowry, wa»
difcoverrd to be on fire. The family, excep
ting a few females, were at meeting, about a
mileriiDant ; iaimediately t ponthe unhappy
accident being announced all the people there
afTcmbled, a- d the inhabitants of the vicinity
ran to the scene of de> alia ion with an il 1.,
crity which claims the highest praise ; but
although every effort w s exerted, which a
v rtuotts esteem for a wcrthy chara&cr ( who
i ad-long refidtd amongd them in the caps
city of mag Urate) could excite, they were
unable to flop the progref, of the devouring !
element until it had satiated its fury by con i
fuming all the inside wood-workto the ground 1
floor, leav ng nothing but the outside walls !
and doors and the houlhold furniture, which
the aftivity of thofc prefer.t served torefcue
Married, lad Sunday evening, by the Rtv.
Doftor Hrl-tiUth, Mr.Prtcr E fenbrey, mer
chant, to Miss Mary Hyler, both of this city.
AT a time when a military fpiiit pervades
the whole Onion, when troops and compa
nica ofhorie and foot, are forming asd num
bering, it appears a matter of surprise that
so little should be thought about discipline
and subordination Giving the gentlemen
forming these several corps every credit for
their spirit, iirdor and courage, which they
claim, it is neceflary to hint to tbem, that
an uniform oii'y (however tmli-ary in its ap
pearance) will be of no other use in battle
than to didinguidi thenj,as an easy prey to a
1 old and well trained enemy. Horsemen,
in particular, should remark and remember,
that unitfs their h irfes as w,.11 as themf:!ves
are well prepared and under peifeft control,
that they are more likely to crcateconfufion
and dismay in their own, than in the army
of the enemy ; and that to be any way ufe
ful they mud be drifHy disciplined.—A Ve- '
teran ofthe revolutionary war makes these re
marks, for the purpose and with the hope of
their being attended .to ; and further ob.
serves, that v hile a nu'lita y academy for tlie
foot is eftabhfhed in the Northern Liberties,
and a riding school near the Centre in the
City, and both undertfie direftion ofmen, ac
knowledgedly capable of performing all they
profefs; it willbetothi shame and difgraceof'
the city and county volunteers, if they neg
left so fair and advantageous an opportunity.
' On Monday the surviving Spanith prisoners,
taken in the prize Of his Britannic majesty's
(loop of war Bi aak, were brought up to Phi- '
ladelphia, and given up to the agentsof Spain. ,
The crew of the Braak confuted of 83 per
sons in all, about half of which were saved,
including those who were in the prize.—The
officers left alive the prize master, a mid-'
Ihipman, and the boatswain.—The accident 1
al together is a molt melancholy one, but it is
greatly heightened, by the circftnddance Qf the
captain's lady being so near as Nfw-York,
whtre (he was every hour in anxious expeita
tion of the happiness of meeting him.
The prize lies at the F6rt.
COM MUNICH TION.
It is currently reported, that the itinerant
philosopher Volney has detei tnine.d shortly
t» embark for Europe. In making this
merit of necefiity, he is politic j being un
doubtedly sensible, from the proceedings of
our government, that the day is jud at
hand when he, with other emillarics, mull
quit this land of toleration, for the regions j
of directorial tyrarpy. •
I am well informed th it this man has had .
the unparalleled temerity, on a number of 1
occasions, to speak of. the President of the '
United States and its government, in the 1
mod contemptuous terms. Unquedionably '
at (uch times he knew'his company—the im- j
maculate p merican Jacobins —thofechicken- (
hearted friends of freedom, who, if spit <,
upon by a Sansculotte, would find a happy I
apology in that mod amiable trait of the c
human mind—gratitude. '
Mr Volney may be allured (all his know- 1
ledge of our Winds notwithdanding) for ,
such language in the prefenee of a true f
.mericau, he would not have escaped with \
impunity. \
I underdand that artful French incendi-
ary, and spy, C - ~is dill in America! J
at the very feat of government I! Nay, at '
this very intereding crisis, the companion of j
some of the representatives of our nation!!! a
—O, Ihamelefs, degraded- Americans ! a
'a ell may the audacious tyiants of the y
Fiench I ell us, they have a party, and the 1
MEANS in our country, &c.
Depart, Sir, with your countryman—
the long-fuffering and patieoce of the hof ; j
pitable Americans, are nearly exhau(led— t
their vengeance may otherwise .overtake t
you—and peihaps with you, that treason- 0
faeed foreigner, whore there is almoll de- '
mondrative proof has been your coadjuter
and adviser in the black business of Wellern J
Infurreflion. Independent Tarter.
g azetTFmarlneTist.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
AK RIVED, DAYI. '
Brig American, Somen, Egg-Harbmir 2 !
Schr. Polly, Edwards, Pi&trnaqunddy 15 !
Sloop h'epe, Cole. Rbode-Ifland 4 J
Cape. Cole from Rhodc-lfland informs, ihat on Tu«f> t
day last, »tf cape N/ay.as he was Handing up, a French j
schooner Privareer hailed and patted him—flood after t
a light, black looking brig, outward tound, and c
brought her to remained along •fide of her upwards t
of an hour and an ha if, and then both vefleii flood
off to tfteS. E at 3 o'clock* Capt. Cole spoke the
General Green cutter, then lying a bona two miles in- '
fide of Cape May, and informed capt. Price of w ha:
he hadfeen, who immediately got under wa) and ftord
down—a large ftiip was then in fight to rhe south- .
ward, to be the Ganges. —Capt. C. fpokc a
1 Hoop from C. Francois I.clip, and the bng JDuke o£
Brunfwick from New-Y;*k—light.
: NORWICH, (Con.) May 14.
Lafi Sunday thf fine fbip Hope, Capt. Elijah
Clark, 'went doivn the river for the We (I-Indies.
The Hipe mounts 16 guns\ bejtdti JxoiveU, and
carries. 50 men.
The fchobner Allen, Freeman, of this port, was
taken by a French privateer brig of 1 2 guns, on
her outward bound passage to Cape Nicbnla Mole,
1 10 days out, in lat. 1%, and sent for P'irto Rico.
The privateer took out of the Alien the mate and
all the people, and kept thrm eight days {in nufiicb
li-ne they rook an Englijb feboonerj m ben they
fell in -with tbe febooner iFajbingion, Capt. T/vto
, thy Grow, from Harbadoes bouKd to Old York;
(bey treated Capt. Grow in a mofl cruel manner,
taking from birn bis boat, tying him to one of the
guvs and flagging him, They then put the
Allen*s people on board capt. Grow, who fonded
them on Block Jflind lajl Tburfday, 1 ~jth in/lant.
The privateer was calted Dim Jar, and bad 45
men. + . 1 1
An Engli/b frigate has taken and sent in, 36
French privateers, in a cruise of 8 rwecks.
»1 1 • *
Norfolk, May 24.
Yefterd*y arrived the fchoaocr (of £h»rlef
ton) Wm. Combs, master, 8 days IrOih New-Provi
4mce. On the »otb April, in lat. 58 k>n^. 70
was chafed c even hours by a brig, iupaoftfi to be a
» piivateer.
j Mjy ift, the Thetis frigate, eapt. Cochran, captur
ed and brought into New-Pr«>vidcoce, a fjnaft Trench
1 P'ivatcer tchooner of 8 gunfs, called »he Refou»cc,
I commanded by-the calcbra'ed Augustus Lovr, for
the apprehenftoo of whom a reward was some time
since offered by Vist ir Hugoea.
'1 he' Thetis 'ailed from New-Prwyidence on the 71b
May, bound to Halifax, via Bermuda.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK. May 30.
£\traft of a letterfrom Jrrtmic d«te i May it.
• M lam sorry to intorm you, that the b"g May, in
government is arrived 1 his daywi»h the dif
agrceahle news of the evacuation o* P«rt-au.Prinee
on the 6t« inlt. The Fiench inhabitants wottjd.not
fuffer the B(idO) to ta-ke avray th»nr guns, nor their
bl«ck troops, or demolish the fonifications which
they erected. St Ma>cs snd wilj loon
follow, she enemy is iiillonOur frontiers
(Signed) FtROIN AND."
BOSTON j May 16.
Capt. Kent arrived yetierday from Guadaloupc,
come out ih company wit h a French privateer bouni
to the Ameiicaa and parted with her in lat. 29.
loor* }(>{ aha that Vj&ar had ordeied four
other pirates to xn a-fewdays, on the famedcllina
l ion. '
mm " *■
FROM NKWBU K Y-PORT, MAY «£•
.1' The-patriotic-citizens of this town, determined
to shew their attachment to their" own government,
acid to vii dicate its cotpmcrcTal rights, have opened
a fubfcripiion for the purpose of building a 2® gun
ft>lp ; and loaning h«r 10 government. The sum pro
posed (or building her, is ac,o«o dollars, Mosrs
Browns £fq. has patriotically fubferibed 1500
dollars.' An example this, wot thy prompt imita
... .7. '
The neutraf powers have sent envoys to
Paris to remonstrate against the late violations of th e
laws of committed by the French legifla
'tdre«'
MACPHERSON'i «LU£S.
THE Blues will meet at O'Ellers* hotel this Day
at 5 o'clock P. M. The gentlemen lately cle&ed in
to- the corps are desired to be pun6Vual in their atten
dance. By order,
RICHARD P.ENvSH AW, jun. Sec'ry
"N. B. The committee of eleGion will fit at Mr.
DunwOody's from 5 t0.7 oldock, P. M. every day
this week "except Thurfday M Tor the purpose of re
ceiving applications of admittance into the corps up
on, the recommendation of a member thereof.
Drum and Fife. „
GOOD Drummers and Fifers,will receive hand
some encouragement to join Mac»ubhson» Clues,
on application at No. 78, Chefnut Street,
may 30 3 t
Those persons of the city and liberties, who
are determined to support the Conttitution and Inde- 1
pendence of their country ; and willing to join
iA- th« formation of a volunteer Artillery Company,
to be attached to iMacphcrfbnVßiuCs, ara desired to
meet for this purpose at the house George Hill,
of the Buck, in North Second flreet, o.t Saturday
next at 7 o'clock in the evening.
Mit. COBBETT,
AT this present crisis, rijclieve it an indif-|
penfable duty T owe to my family, and to my
personal fafely, t© acquaint the public with a
short detail of fadls relartng td.'my condu-ii in
this country, my objedl is to prevent if poflible,
any contiMence being pi iced in the wrong insin
uations, you have published in the of'
Oiflober of lait year, and recently in re
marks on Mr. Btbwtt'tf note 1 I'uch publications
being calculated not only to deprive me and my
young children of the vary means of fubfiftance,
but alfoto expose me to public view as a dange
rous Frenchman, and capable of making maii
cioti9 use of the liAsof fubferibers in my hands ;
however, I am certain that Mr. Fenn.; nor aiiy
of his fubferibers would hot feel the Icafl unea
linefs to fee their names published, or even dis
closed to the directory ot France.
In the year 1792, I arrived in Philadelphia
(from Germany where I lived with my parents
Rnce the age of 14} a'tcr one year's refibeuce I
was united iu the bands .of matrimony with a
woman, a native American; hence I took the
firm resolution to ft ay in this country, and to
become a peaceable citizen of the f United States
Mv condutf and roy Vlemeanor can be ascertain
ed by my neighbors and other acquaintance: in
fine, in the year 1793 I took the oath befor#
a magistrate to support the constitution, and I
am considered as 3 citizen (having also for five
years pall, paid the taxes*) and entitled to pof
lels the confidence of my employer!*.
I have been for 4 years employed in the post- 1
office and afterwards by Mr. Brown, until my
propofa!* were agreed to by Mrfirs. Fenfto,
Wache, Browii and Bradford. In coqfequeuce
thereof, i have for fourteen months sent with
the uimoft mipatiality and nt ention.lire papers 1
of the fevcral printers—Your complaints are '
all unfounded *s well is yourcharees.
After this, I hope that your remarks on the
above, and what you have already said, will
not injure me in the miitds of the public.
/ have the honor to be, Sir, ;
the Nevus-papers Packer,
JAC~B ROSET.
9 In your paper of Oftoberlajl, you mentioned
ps your ovjn authority, that my name vjas. not
entered in the, tax books. at
WE, the fubferibers, having employed Mr.
Jacob Rofet in the month of April, 1797, for
the purpose of em-losing and preparing our pa
pers for the Poft-Cffice, do hereby certify, that
they have been fmce that period for warded ,to
our fubferibers, as far as we are aole
to afceitain, with the flri&eft regularity ou his
part ; and that we have not the Imallelt reifon
to ful'pedl him gwilty of any partiality in the bu
finef* whatever. A. Brown
John Fenno
Benjn. franklin Bade
Thos. Bradford.
j FOREIGN ARTICLES.
MILAN, ij.
r The two thousand men of French froopt
which arrive here from Genoa will bt follow
ed by three chotifand more which are ex
pected there from Marfcillej. Another body
arrives by Mount Cenij.
• Thf military movements give rife to va
rious conjctlures. It it probable we shall j
soon understand their ohjed, as well as the
' cause of the augmentation of Austrian
I troops in Italy. It is said, the French
troops on the 4th entered Lijgano without 1
experiencing any resistance. The gen. Ca- j
fain having quieted Corsica wilt return to
Genoj. The chief of the rebels called
Grtferri has been made prisoner, and, with
ftveral of Ais accomplices sent before a mi
litary tribunal at Baftia.
It is said in a Gerfoefe paper, that difpit
ches and a corrcfpondence between Turin j
atid Vienna have been intercepted, and that
this discovery might have serious conftquen
ces, as well as several important papers seiz
ed at Rome. The farre paper fays, that I
1.8,000 men are to aflemble at Mantua, and i
that aceording to appearances, the iftab-
IKhment of the Roman republic will bring '
about great changes in Italy, as it cannot •
be made to accord»with the treaty of Cam- j
po Formio. Already it is said, (adds that j
paper) that the taking poflcffion of Venice '
has been, but provisional. Thus while bey- !
ond the bulletins and gazettej
announce tl.at Austria is about extending I
its palTeffions in Italy on this fide 'he Adige '
a hope is entertained that (he will abandon
part of her new acquifitio's. We are vcrv !
impatient to know whieh of these conjeo j
tures wjll be verified by the event.
VIENNA, March 6.
The Emperor »f Ruflia, Paul I. ha\ late
ly prefenttd the Prince of Conde the town j
■of Dobno, in Poland, and the territory be
longing tg it.
FRANKFORT, Mareh 18.
The Elector of Bavaria has officially con
tradicted the report of a coalition said to
have been proposed by him to the piincipal
powers of Europe againlt the French Re
public.
MENTZ, March 34.
The French troops close upon the fort
refs of Ehrenbreitfteinmore and more.
STUTGA I RD, March 8.
After a very stormy fitting our aflembly
of the dates has this day declared itfelf per
ipansntly fitting, until the Duke shall have
abolished whatever is unconftitutbnal in the
present form of Government.
BASLE, March 8.
The provisional regency of Zurich com
posed of the ancient Senate, his laid down
its powers gnd hai, convoked the primary as
semblies.
The go moment oFSchaffaufen hasJent
deputies to-citizen Mcngandto apologise for
.having Cent auxiliary troops to Berne.
The inhabitants of Solenre, have sent a
deputation' to Paris, empowered to thank
the Directory for having releafsd them from
the yoke of th.e oligarchs.
1 March 9.
The Citizen Ochs appeared yesterday for
the firft time in our national aflembly. He
described the heartfelt emotions he experitn
ced in feeing in the great hall of the Senate
those representatives of the people, who, Im
til now had never appeared there but,in a
supplicating attitude. He declared to the
aflembly, th.>t mere than once he had pre
sented, but always without success, to tfce
secret council, the views of the French re
public, and the necefity of renovating the
constitution of the country; that France,
would not fuffer in her neighbourhood, any
oligarchical (late ; oec a life that species of
government is much more hurtful to her,
than monarchies ; that in general Switzer
land had 101 l its ttrenijth and refpe&ability,
adhering now to one powef, now to another
there to beg commiflions for officers and
ribbands, and had played a part of a troop
of satellites, rather than that of a free po
wer ;that it was high time to come back to
ancient principles &c. As an eleft ion of a
Prcfident of the national efiembly was about
to be proceeded with, the Citizen O hs was ■
unanimously chosen.
He is nowfufficiently avenged against' he
efforts which calumuy had made to injure
him in the opinion of the people ; for the 1
numerous partizans of our a licit M govern- 1
ment had succeeded in producing in a cla
mour for his head, dining the three tnmul
tuous days of Feb. 28, March Ift and 2d,"
bv spreading the report, that he wished not -
only to overturn the coriftitutiou of Bade,
and that of all Switzerland, but to fell his
country to the French republic.
—— 6
LONDON, March 16 }
Confidential letters received from Raftadt
by the la (I mail ftate~thn? as soon as .the
Congress ha 3 fettled the affairs of Germany
another negociat ion for peace between this
country and France will be opened, under
the mediatioiiofthecourts of Berlin, Vienna,
and Petersburg /
From the official report publifned by the
government of Berne, on the pretended Taf
faffination of two French huflars in the vil
lage of Thierens, it clearly appears, that
these two huflars, yefufed anlwering the que
stion of the Swiss fenrries—Who they were?
That one «f these huflars fell with his drawn
sword on one oftthe sentinels, and wounded
him in the face ; whereupon the latter fired
in defence of his life, and killed the hussar ;
that she other buffer then attacked the other a
fen try, and shared the fawe fate ; that nei- t
ther the government nor commandant of *
the place tbok the Iraft part in this tranfaft- j
ion, and that on the firft intelligence there
of, the government of iieroe offered general \
I Menard any faiisfa&ton he might demand,
anil even iurreoucrcil the two feuti.els up
to him.
All these fafls arc,prored by the vcrb.'J
ptveefs drawn up on the (pot, and yet tlx
pretended outrage is allegrd by the Freix h
government' aa iht motive for the French
troops entering theierritory of Berne, in tie
fame manner as the death ofgec eral Duphois
who was killed at the bead of a band of re
bels,ferved as a prttrxt for occupying Rome.
. Such are the pelitiesl proceedings of the
Great Nation.
One of the last Paris papers contains the
following paragraph: Since the infernal
peace wit . the emperr, the French nation
Ila funk into a marasmus. We mull give up
all hope of revolutionizing other ccuntr ei f
lince nothing ismorc apt to deprive u« of the
confidence cf-foreign nations, than fucli a
treaty.
WASHINGTON LOTTERY. No. IL
' A Lift of Blanks and Prizes.
167 th Day's Drawing— j.February c.
No. Dolls. No. Dolls. AV Dolls. A 9. Dells.
4'o 138:9 * *7379 v 3<*.U7
j 890 x 794 <B6
11, 9 U3*t '* 38.85 x Bo< 15
»5. 15400 f 091 x ,33118
I Sl «<*"* ,:8> 744 X
5*4 x 16061 29C65 x
x J«.» ,"39«.4
4 J B\6 x 585 x 40J-1
317 x 17155 x 751 x 7.9
ill 18078 * 3 "' 1; 9 ?7
| 19104 x 317 4JIII
3«'4 x io-.is x 3 i s j, 9<K> x
"J47 x 11457 ?1!;3 x 44ti4 x
I J43 13025 3 i,HS - 97 x
I ''W 3?* 689 45<09 x
9'9 7<.0 V 99g
I „ 444 * 24801 3.043 X 47484
, X 627 760 *
J* 4 05j X X,6 x 48089
9 9' 350. 34159 x 3%i
8 *37 551 x 3JI
U1 34 5*9 91 S x 416
5" x 26*69 3*489 x 4:5
; "499 X 7'3 X 558 49959
*37*9 171:9 Oio x
168 th Day's Drawing—February to.
1400 i*»7B
931 10 348 5 o 317 663 a
iioß x 746 541 40210
7" »'*ss 665 360 x
8 0 418 . 960 74 jj
9 11 Jii 19037 4*oll x
937 * J7B ' o&o x i^B
3 6 " 71* CBS 770 x
9'9 '7165 3 ij 806 x
4«o X
V 7 6 V* 441 x 4C4
f 6 4 860 • 641 981
* 867 x 877 43001 x
5096 919 X 30341 34j x
050 185*3 373 44191
61*6 x 678 x 506 513
316 x 19113 £O4 45016
500 617 766 310
4 886 31069 x 331 x
3 6 5 890 x 3.1315 x 378
399, x 10816. »' 715 x 46m x
S l * 975 33171 x 135
590 »'399 * no x 493 x
971 H323 481 x 596 x
9443 586 718 711
,e '43 »3478 840 47174
*9* 479 ■ 34»76 x 108 x
**34®, 680 x ai 5- 40 515 x
'~»5I 779 35-33 C7B x
9?9 997 x 37055 48461,
-9~9 x 14713 x 813 568
998 25139 850 746
aj ß3 666 38140 747 so
3*4 7'o x 8(4 779 10
73* 834 X
So 4 899 X 963 s 49655 x
13149 26400 3*ool x
3Q3 X' 171 o x ; 533
Northern Liberty Volunteet I.'-gbt Infantry.
I ''HE Volunteen forming the L ghr Infantry
Company,
th&jji Rxgiment of Plufid?h>l«i»j:oumy Mih
t.a, will take
NOTICE,
That puifuar.t to an order of the Brigade Ib
fpetfor, an eleaion for officers will be held at
the sign of the President, North Second flrer:,
on Saturday the 12th June nex', between the
hours of len in tht mo/ning and fix in the al
ternoon.
The Members are requested to be fun«s!nal'
in their attendance. >' ;ty
On THURSDAT next,
The 7th ot June, at 10 o'clock in themorning,
WILL BF. SOI D.
At the late Dwelling Hnufe of Susannah M'Bow
cll, at the corner of Penn and Pine ilreets,
A V.4R2KT y or
Houfhold & Kitchen Furniture,
Among which are, a quantity oj Feather Beds
and Bedding, fi'vefr Spoons, Wearing Apparel,and
a quantity of Tavern Utensils &c. &c.
CONNELLY Co. Siuflioneers.
may 31. * coy
notice;
ALL persons indebted to the eftateof Sufaa
aTi McDowel, widow, dcceafeM are re
quested to make immediate payment arid- alt
those who have any demands against said e%ite,
to present their accounts duly attested to Patrick
Lineham.
Reverend Leonard XeaL )
Patrick Lineham, )
*"»y 3' »eod3t
TO BE LET—for the Summer feafo,#,
The long Ball Room,
fiV Fourth, betlwen Cbefnvt and Walmit firertt, nnr*
occupied by Wm. M'Doti**ll For terms and further
particulars, apply at bis botife h Mark-tjireet, No. 134,
Where he still carris on the
Hat and HoJi.ry BuJinefs,
On bit usual reasonable terms.
ma y 3 » jf
7 his Day will be PubJi/beJ,
By PET £ R PO'-RC CTPIM B #
A P O E iV,
FRENCH ARROGANCE ;*
OR,
(< The Cat Let out oj the Bag
A. POETICAL DIaLLGBS
Between the AMERICAN ENVOYS,
And X. Y. Z. aud the LADY,
may 28.
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of i'cnol'ylva
nia, for such Plan of a Baukiog HouiV,
acc»mpaiiicd with fe&ions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Directors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 ieet
in depth, jind to be so plai ned as to adm t of ita
being made fire pfoot. It is requested that the
plans may be feut to the Cafhicr ot the Bank, pi v
vious to the f.rft of June uest.
I aprii 19. ttithuijtfMadras and Ventapaulem i
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the ueweft and mod approv«<l patterns, entitled IN
to the drawback, just received,
AN) rot SALS BY
Altx. J. Miller W C».
No. 64, South Front street.
may $
& IF Mr. Charles William Klemcko
Formerly ef London, a.id who left England tbe
route part of the United States of America, m w
the year be livinp, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti- A
more, or to MelTrs. Ifane Hazlehurft and Son, A
in Philadelphia, he may hear of foincthing great
ly to hi? advantage. Any inforiuatinn refpeA
ing the said Mr. Charles William Kleiwek*,
would be thankfuliy received,
naay 19
FOR~SALE. "
A neat Country House,
'"pHRF.E ami a half miles from the city, on \
JL the Wilfahicon road, with feventten and a
half acrea of land, half in orchard and half in \
graft. Apply to Edward BonsallSc Co. a
in Dock-street, or to the fubfcribcr. at Mount
Pteafaut, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premiles
Jonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
will not be for sale during the season. •
may 19 v
Very Great Bargains, A
CONSISI'INGof Table Linen, Scotch and \
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Houlekeepers to make
puichafe of Enqniie of
7 homae Randall,
No. 88 Sfruee-ftreet. \
may I? f__
Military Colours, A
PAINTED ON SILK-**
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardlhips,of the
weather without injury, and wh eh for neatness
and eiaAitude of colouring cannot befurpaffed in
thi> city.
FLAGS AND DRUMS
Furnifced with dispatch, en tha mod moderate
term«.
Portraits, OmamentalPaintings, Signs,
fire-t.uckets, &c. accompliUied in that fupcb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rn;ter pledges
himfelf from 10 years experience iu this city will 1
meet the entire approbation of hij friends aul tee
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpecirnen's may be fecn at their ,
Pointing Room, Norcis's Court, back of the Nsw
Library. ~
may t d6w
notice.
Having observed an advcrtifemcot of C. j
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro- j j
fiffional abilities, we have to requell the public ,
not to be inipofed upon by foreign artists ; but to ,
decide upon the merits ol each by a comparison ot 1
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
univcrfally adopted by tiem to invalidate the ta»
lents of eUabiifhed artists, with a view of deceiv- 1
ing tiw public, and engrofting that business which
their profeflional lcfciwledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull
g«ycrn, we flatter curfelves that the work execut
ed by us \vi!'»convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. <Jttllager in every 'aranch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thentcef
lity as judging For theaifelves.
N. B. In lucurc no attention will be paid to ths
felf-flattering advertifemcnts of Mr O.
Arty person wiihin# a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Cwirt, cr Henri FRailev, Gcrmax
to%vn. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. jo, South Fourth, ujxt to Chefuut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on Clks for Military and .ther or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and niafterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all pofliMe dispatch, on the moll
rcafonahle terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
et,, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern alegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer of hi? proteffion.
Mr. Gm-LACiia, from a number of year's expe
rienct in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&aality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entiro approbation of
those gentlemen who wi 1 pleafc to call at hisPaint
ng Rooms. §6w may j.
notice.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maherly manner, will no
doubt feel themfelvet obliged for the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf.
flattering advertifemcnts, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —favethcfpoil-
ing of good filki by George Rutter's pencil—and
dilcover the requiGtes for the contra&ing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may io.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, Oil the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Ghfgo-w, perhaps he may pals
by the name of Ghfgoiv Lee, or may change bis
name; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, hasafcar in the upper part of his un
der lip, a fm all part being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be o rery fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
sometime pall : he is a Pout, ilrong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman o:
Mr. JolhuaLingoe.of this county. It is supposed
thsy are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfcribcr shall get him agaia (hall receive the
above reward. LSME BAYLY.
Statu of Maryland, I
Somerfct County,-april 10. j may 4 —4 W
For Sale,
A Farm and Covntay Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
poflte to Norru-towh, feventecn milei from Plii-
Jedclpbia—the farm contains 194 >c es ol hnd,
ol w.iicb aic woodland, abou* 40 of ipeadow, and
,e I tableland. The houfc and garden which it
larec and well paled, ftai d in ihe moll pie.lar.t fitu
atiori, commanding a view of iho river, an ill nd
which is oppofue, and the village ot No.tinown—
liurc is a (bad filhery belonging 10 tie place —En
mire in Philadelphia, No, <;Sj N'oaji Third
ci on the prcmifes.
, fr ii x 6
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1790-
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, J
IN pursuance of the Aft of C.ngrefs faffed on the filth day of July one thousand f even hundredand
nii.ety-feven, e -titled " An Ad laying dutiea on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and tlic
Ad palled on the fifteenth day of Dec.tnber, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fe««, entitled
•' An Ad to piillponc for a limited time the commencement of the duties inipofed by the AS enti
tled "An AJllaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after the
firft day of J.ly ens.ing, the feveralStamped Duties harcalter enumerated, will be levied andcollec
ted throughout the Uoited States*
I. t
For every flcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon whicb ft ill be |
written or primed auy or either of the inilruiuenu •r writingsiollowinf;—to wit s
Dii CtJ • I
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - 5
Any Licence to pra<Hice,or Certificate ofthr adraiflion,enrolment «r regiftryof
any Coatifellor, Solicitor. Attqmey,Advoe«t or Prodlor, in any Court of the
United States, - - - * * . 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courta of the United states
for one of the said Offices, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
tlnty aforelaid, be a fulficient admiirion in all the Courts of the United :
States, foreach and every of thefaid oflicci.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any l'uth grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... »
Any Charter-Party, Botti-mry; or Refpondentiaßond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof any Legacy left by any \\ ill or
ther teflamentary instrument.or for any (hare or part ot a perioral ellate di
vided by force otany ftatutc of diftributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafek.the amount whereof lliall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - " * " " .
When the amount thereof fliall exceed the value ol Otfe Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - J°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furo of j
Any Policy of Inlurance or inflr*mem in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one diftrifl to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whtdi
Ir.furance is made (ball not exceed five hundred dollars, - tj
When the sum insured fhallexceed five hundred dollars, " I
Any Exemplification, of w hat nature foover, that shall pals the seal if any
Court, "ther than luch as it may b. the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fursilh for the ufeofthe United States or fume particular Itate, - so
Any Oond, bill finglc or pe»al, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
uferefpeilively, - * " "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, is
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - " • ■ * TS
Provide J, that if any bonds or notes (hill be payable at or withm sixty days,
l'uch bonds or notes <ball be fubjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars and Bet excee Jing fivi hundred «l«IUi s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, to
If above one thousand dollars, - -
Auy Notes ifiued bv the bauks now eftiblilhed, or that may hereafter be ellab
liflaed within the' United States, other than the noros <i luch of the laid Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by fucli Batiks, to their Stockholders relpedlively, according to
the following scale. - " »
On all not it not exceeding fifty dollars, for each d»llar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all nptea above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - * * 1
On all notes above five hun.lred dollars, - *
Any Protefi or other Notarial ail, - ' "
Anv Letter trf Attorney, except for an invalid-penfioa, or to obtain or fell VVar-
S rants for Land granted by the United States ai bounty tor military services
performed iu the late war, * - '
Any Certificateor Debenture far drawback of Culloms or duti«, for 1«U than
five hundred dollars, - - ■ .
For five hundred dollars anl not exceeding two thousand UoHara,
For more than two thousand dollars, - * 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchmdite »be exported,
H from one diftriS to anotlier diflriil ofthe United States, not bamj m the
fame State, - > " 10
If'from the United State* to any foreign port or place, " "
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any futoiturc, foods or efT-fls, made in any
cafe required hy law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diftraiued for
pent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proeefa by any officer,) 50
. Any Certificate of a Share in any Iterance Company, »f a (hare in the Bask oi
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
I If above twenty dollars and sot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
I If above one hundred dollars, - " 2 S
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The dutiesaforetaid will be collefte-d and received by the Supervisors liifpeflors aud other Officers
of Infpeition ia the several Dillrifls, Surveye and Divisions of tjie United Mates, and by such other
perfunsas shall from t» time be fpacially appointed and employed by the Superviiors of Diftrifls for
thatpurpofe.
' The Supervisors of the fsveralDiftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be praaicable, markorftamp, without fee or reward, auy quantities or parcel-os Vdlum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
" (lamped vellum, parchment and paper may at the option of the C'itixen. of the United States, be qb
-3 tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any SupervUor.li.fpedor, Officer of Infpcctien,
r or other nurfoa appointed far the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Ditlrid s
1 GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
5 the day aid year 'bovementioned.
"OLIVER WOLCOTT,
, March 10. ; Secretary of the Triajury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Manh 30M. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an of Congrcl's passed 011 the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<S passed on the 6th day ot July 1797, en
titled "An a£l laying duties on stamped vcl
" lum, parchment aad paper."
The (limp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by t<he Supervisors
or'lnl'peilors refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the kevenue, who may pur
chase it one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the dutie* (hall amount to Tea Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Paper, will be provided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without anyaddi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional prce will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
meat, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellutp of medium size, which may be furnifa
ed at the expense of the United States aßd pro
portionally for anyleflcr quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir ako , veme>i?io»cd,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treaftiry.
To be Let,
(And poflefiion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
fret front, a»d 40 feet deep, with back build.ogs
and (tables, at prefert in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 Somth Third ftrcet.
April 1. $
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subscribers,
trading under the firm of
Joseph Davidson y Co.
IS this day dilTolved by mutual consent, all those
having claißu againll said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted To make
payment to Jofi-fh Davidfon, who is duty autho
red to frfule tie affairs of -hecercern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at thi corner «f Market and
Fourth arc now to it let.—Enquire of Jo
fcfh Davidion,
april ,6 wSujm
TO BE SOLD,-
40,939 acres °f Land.
IX Greene county, Commonwealth of Pennfyi
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mil* Run.
Thefc Lands are fertile and well tirttbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370 c acres, which were patented in 179*;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payrpent of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a rcaifonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. $
" TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townftiips of Hamdcn and
Warreu and county of Warren.
Ihefe Lands, l r om their quality and situation,
are a very defirablfe obje& for any man who means
to invefl his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will \ e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. §
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Mile# from the City,
wifti to receive two or three j/enteel boaid
ers. The Houfc is handsomely turniftied; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well llocked with the choicest Fruit.
There are fevcral Musical Inftrumsnts, amongst
which is a most excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
theferviceof the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
-the Water good-r-and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf may 16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon, haveby mutual corfeut agreed
to livs fcparate and apart from each ether from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn ail
person from tru fling heron my account, as by
contraA (he is to fupportherfrlffor the future, and
I am determined cot to pay any debt of her cok
traSirg. SAMUEL HQDGKINSON.
tcay 15: 'jtiaw
Canal Lottery, No. 11. 1
Confiderab'y more than H«lf Drawn.
Draw tvj/et a -jjeei, ivtrj Moaday l£ Tucjiay
InCKtTS For Silt, Seven Do:lir»c»ch, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers office. K»>. 64 South Second-flreet,
wht re cbtsfc books arc kept for examination ind
repifterinp in thip, City of afliington No. a.
and PatertVm Loiteiies and information where
Ticket. may be had in moll of the Cotterie« au
thorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
State or thi Whiili
One prize of io,ooo dollars 10,000
Five 4.ocx) ao,ooo
Twt *,OOO 4*ooc
Nine i,oco 9,000
Nineteen 50 o 9.50*
Forty-f' ur 100 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hund-cd
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
en will J'oon » ife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prize* that remain in the wheal
until the laftday of drawing.
Note, the business of a Proker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office.
_may 24 wJcstf^
This day Publijhed,
AND FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book-store,
No. sa, Chefnut, cornei'tff Second fttreet, %
On Jine iiwven Pilfer, itb Elegant Engraviwgt %
Dedicated to the Prejidknt of the United States,
The Studies of Nature,
Translated from the French of
James Henry Bern or din de St, Pierre,
By HENRY HUNTER, D. D.
r PH.S very i»ge*iws. i: tercfting and inflru<siive
1. work has finc« its firft publication, gone
through four liicceffive impressions, under the au
thor's immediate infpedion ; besides a variety of
printed editions in different parts ol the European
continent.
No book display» a more sublime theology, in
culcates a purvr morality, or breathes a more ar
dent and expansive philanthrophy St. Pierre ena
hies us to contemplate this univorfe with other
eye* ; has furnifhed new arguments to combat
athrifm ; has established, beyond the power of
contradi&ion, the do&rine of a universal pr«vi
d*nce has excited a warmer intersft in favor of
fuffering humanity, and has discovered sources,
unknown before ot moral and intelle&nal enjoy
ment.
The avidity with which the clergy and other
learned chara&erain New-England, have purchas
ed the English ediflon of this delightful pet for m
ance.and the opi ion entertained by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
before the M Age of Reason,** a part of it con
tains a more folirf and com pleat refutation of it,
than any thing publiflicd Grcc, are perhaps a fnfti
cient recommendation of the Stud tsof Nature ;
»t1 which the Botaotfl, the natural and chri'lian
Philosopher, the friend of «rder and government
are equally interested, and by which they will be
equally gratified
A* no pains nor expence have been spared in
procuring fuitaMe paper and able artists. to render
the work worthy »f the public ; and as the Sub
feribcrshave expreffud their approbation of it, the
pubiifher flatters himfelf, that gentlemen, who on
account of the bad paper and print of fine Ameri
an editions, give gdn ral'y the preference to the
Eaglith, * ill honor this with a comparison, before
they purchase.
The Naval Gazetteer ;
' Beioga com pleat Geographical Di&ionarv, coniain
iog a full and accurate account, alphabetically arrang
ed, of all the Coun rics avd iflinds in the known
world ; Ihewingthtir latitude, foundings, and flation
for anchotage; with a particular defcip'ion of the
fever 11 Bavs, Gapts, Channe's, Covn, Creeks, Cur
rents, oU'.phs. Harbor.-. Havens, Lakes. Oceanßa
ces, Rivets, R ads, Rocks Sands, Shoa s, Sounds,
Straits, Tides, Variation of the Compos, dc To
geihcrwiih a particular relation ol thefhaoeand ap
pearance at sea, of the fcveral Headlands, Iflhmufes,
Peninlulas, Pnins, Piomonto ies, and whatever i« of ;
ule o< importance to the Matter, Pilot, Commander
* or Seaman of any Ihip or vefTel. in navigating the wa
r try element.
Alfa, Comprehending
Ample dirc&ions to failing into or out of the differ
ent Por s,Straits and Harbor of the four quarters of
lfc the v\orld ; and for avoiding danger* on the various
I and extended coast ;in which more than twelve thou
r f?nd dillincl names and places, See. are treated of and
" cx r laintd. Wjth acorrcft set of Charts, * vols. Bvo.
By the Rev, JOHN MALHAM.
(jTf This has been pionounced the moll ufefu and
the chcapeft book pubtifbeu in America. It wasun
dertaVen f \eral years fmce, under the aufpicea of
Lord Sand jvich v hile he was ai the head of the Ad
miralty of England and from which every aftift
- ance necellaty to complete so arduous a work, was
readily furnilbed, but it never made its appearance
un'il last year. The favor it obtained with M-dbrs of
venels and other gentlemen concerned in Navigation
induced the publilner to prepare this edition wherein
I- the American Ports, Harbors, See have b. en coir
g by a gentleman of great abilities, and cxteafive infor
mation on the !übje&.
d may 21 saw4w
Just Published,
» By W. YOUNG, bookfelfer, Second-street,
the corner of Chefnut street,
THE WORKS Of JOHN NEWTON,
II X. o W D O N.
c A new edition, in 9 vols price dols. neat
ly bound, containing letters of Omicron and
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of ecclesiastical his
" tory, fcrmcMi6, mefTiah, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and Uie life of Eliza Cwnninghsm. —
Each of these part 3 may be had feparaie, and
such as have been supplied with VV. Young's
edition in 6 vols, may, by speedy application, tffc
furnifhed with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols, at i\
» dols.
J -dlfiy fa My Publtfbed.
Baxter's Saint's Reft, abridged by Faw- dots,
lf cett, lamo at 1
Beveridge'sprivatethoughts, a parts nmo 75
Jb Christian (the) Parent, iarao 50
— (the) Remembrancer, nmo 75
Christian world unmaflced, do 6ai
Dickenfon's (of New-Jersey) familiar
letters, iimo 87^
Doddrige's rife and progress, ißmo 50^62^
— ftrrmons on education, nmo 44
— fermonstoyoung persons, do 6aJ
on regeneration 18m» Bii
} c . Davies sermons a vols Bvo 4
1 Home's commentary on the book of
Psalms, 2 1$
ditto t vols Bvo a 5.0
at a work highly admired by all <u>bo have
bad the advantage 9/ perujing it,
nt Hervey Afpafio vindicated, nmo 75
le Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo a
Walker's sermons, with Blair's life of
a . the author, a vols Bvo j
White's sermons, preached before the
University of Oxford, Bvo I 50
Wjrnperfle on the true and eternal God
head of our Lord JefusChrift, 50 a 68
Sacred Biography, or the history as the
ai Patriarchs, by H. Hunter, 3 vols Bvo 6
A large aflortment of bibles, in folio, quarto,
1 y iamo and pocket, at various prices.
A large allowance to wholesale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
may *7 aaw^w
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURSE AUX,
CONSISTING or
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovica and Prunes
rOK IALB BY
7 homat Fit%fimons'
mavi6. §4*
FOR SALE
BT TIB SUBSCBIBKBS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,"
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Currahs, wkite Guziies
Ditto, blue Guzzenaht
Salums Emerties
Oorahs Mow Sannaa
Mamoodics Peniafcoea
Tickirica Baftas
Romalts Coffai
Porea* Tanjebs
Chintz Maida Cloths
Saul Gazzics Cnrwah Cloths
An tUgajortmtnt cf
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR C
CarrON and GINGER
Mordccai Lewis.
may ij. daw jawiw
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN awiy, lift night, from the Subscriber,
living in York Town, Pennfylvifcia, a
German Servant isii>. named John Nichola*
liolb, a Uylor by trade about 30 years cf age
and about 5 feet 1 inches high, has brown curled
h»ir, and nearly bald his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a (ilk velvet cape and a dark
blue coat with fleel buttons, a jjreen isixtured
clerth jacket, cloth soiored thicklet pantaloons a
new rorom hat, clouded cotton (lockings and
caiflkin flines with ftriugs. He is a good fchol
lar in the German tongue and I'peaks Kngliih ;
it is likely lie may lurk in and ab at the city of
Philadelphij as he has acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and lecures fiid fervantia
any goal so that h're master can have him again,
(hall have the above rtward paid bv me,
Thomas Owens.
may at *diw
RoBkK-r Smith iff Cc.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE received by ihe (hip Helvidere from
London, a quantity of Kufiia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an aflbrtmen: of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Narikeeui,
Luteftringu, and a variety of India Muslins.
may 13 d3W
30 Dollars Reward.
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
open lall and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car
ried off. V\ fcoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, (hall receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part
thereof. ROBERT SMITH A Co.
No 58 South Front-Jlreet.
may 23 daw
A few boxes of ymbrellas
To be Sold cheap— by
Mordecai Lewis.
may 17 daw
Ross iff Simsoh,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
1 1 A few bales Baftai, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and-) RUM
Bengal J
* april 5
For Sale,
' Tbecargoofthebrig Ajnericanfrom Laguira,
r dONSI STI NC OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. in, South Fourth Street,
f april 13 > f_
' Frefli I eas.
* JuJi Imparled, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
, And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
f At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,,
AND BT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
18 At his Cempting House, Crooked billet wharf,
'r Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young,
n Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
n ALSO,
d China Ware, afTorted ; black and coloured Lute*
" ftringaand Sattins, Nai»keens, CalTia, large garden
and common Fans, faetin and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whaie-bonc sticks.
Tbsy have also Fat Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
, French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8. §
Now Opening,
> At Wiia.iAM M'Laws Saddle Manufiftory,
,J No. 72, Che/nut Street,
y A general afTortment of Horseman's
- Pistols, dire& from the Mantffa&urors in London*
d ALSO ON HAND,
s Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
e Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou.h Boxes, Va
£ lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
FOR S4LE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-llreet near Second-street*
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—Thir
1 house is in complect repair with back buildir»gs t
a confuting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handfomc
t Dining Kooin over the Kitchen.
J As any Person inclined to purchase will view
1 the premifes,a more particular description iscon
jl lidered unneceflary.
\ The terms of payment wiJl be one third cafhv
a one third in 6 months and the remainder in
months with interest. For further information*.
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG %
No. 11 Dock-Jlreet.
may 16 §
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SJLE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel#
phia,
Cut Nails of alliizes, from jdy to aody
) Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakeis and Sadltrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
tomb and heaj Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heads, (Ills, &c.
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
J* Orders frpm a distance, direAtd to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prifon,]will be attended to.
December &. " mth6m