C/ ' i/ \ ,
J&tatCS,
By John Ward Fenno, N°- ii 9 Chefnut Street.
ItuMUi■9 3 30 PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY £VENINC, .5, 1798.* XIV."
* 11 ■ r - 11
The -price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subferi
bers reflding in the xity «f Philadel
phia. Jill others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enciojtng and directing;
and nnle/s sam in this city will (
become answerable for the fubfcrip- \
Hon, it mu/i be paid Six Months in x
advance. «.
H, ' I , I ■ "
For SALE or CHAR 1 ER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
* 9CO harTe *" Flour,
Philadelphia built, rtrdl found
and fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few day? —the is pierced,
■i 8 runs, and mounts 12 new fix pounAers, with
(mall arms in proportion.
7HE SHIP 1
DIANA,
Hurt ben 2,100 barrels of Flour,
• r hil»delphia htlilf of lite oak
Vt"*vt crdar, is pierced for four
teen pun*, «d mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 birrels of Flour,
JJSemiHinNe W ,EngUnd built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for lea
in a few days.
Far terms apply to '
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
4m board fundiy vejfels at MjRCVs-HooJi,
12,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine faft (
1, iqo bnfhels of coals .
4*6 crates of queens ware aflforte#
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do. I
t quantity of yell'sW ocre in calks I
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint J
6 barrels mineral black do.
T,; barrels Spanith brown do. t
35 boxes of pipe*
' 89 ' s °do. S brown j HAVANA SUGARS "
3,s<>olbs. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheorn Jamaica spirits
49 hales of fail nnvafs
379 (beets of copper, afto-ted from 48 bf 14 j
to 60 bv 48 inches
Two tuhj raised still bottom! afTorted
36 fix pound guss 4J feet, 8 'cvrt each v
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each f
50 barrel* of gun p&wdtr
♦ cases Mancheftf r eottem checks \
3 trucks muilins Hid (hawls
14 crffe ; -niiflineta, dimities and gftighami
»8 ehefta coloured nankeens, mufl.riets, &c.
I> trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of * hiti and coloured caffitneres
t bale ot coorfe woollens
Tinglilh nails affined.
Oilober 17. fri. &fat. tf.
For Sale*
THE Sttmscitueß, intending ■*> decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
-whele Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and feftici
cntly known for the ett'nfive hufinefs 1 one in the
whotefate atrt retail fine ; the lTt\iation equal to
any in the city, being at the col rtcr of Walnut and
Second ftreet®. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bell suit rhe pur chafer.
Tin terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
Wlo hat For Sale,
Well ealiulated tor the rivet trade—
ThePbgqy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, atxi remarkably
flout, of an easy drauglk ef water, rigging in
gortd order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber hufmefs.
0- All persons indebted to the fate firm oi I
GtMt/fvxrt cJJ* JtblJiriii, W. 3. Goldthwait, G\ 1.-
tbvoit W Aftm-i, ar the fuhfm'tcT, are earneffty
rcqutfted te make fptetfy paysntnt to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
-»g»st i §
Ship Brokers. ' !f
This Eltahliftmcnr, commenced by the late Mr. 3
Samuel Smith, will be continned (rs-
Row (s* Simmons,
WHO refptilfully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Mafteri of veffelt; that no
pa'tna or exertions lhallbc wanting to give general
fatisfa&iou. Thisbufinefs will be conducted at their
Stsre, No. 107. South Water Street, near to the
Custom Hcufe. '
OAober 27 dtf
Wanted to Charter, T
FOR BALTIMORE, P
A Small Vessel,
four to five hundred barrels ™
borJen. PRTER BLI6HT.
Whose Counting House
has opened, a« usual, this day. J
iiw
For Sale, cr Charter.
-jfeSSSliO THE BRIG '
fourteen 6 poun
i" r?, coppered and fails remarkably faft—buithen
afioot icoo barteli.
Foa nwi apply to n
Willing r is" Francis.
Pcna Street.
•ovembcr ■} dlw
FOR SALE,
■ '.'*3
"* rat mip
t'ERSF.'VV RANCS,
7 ames Wdiamfun, tnafltr.
Jull an-ived from 3t Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, of live Oak an 4 Cedar, copper Attach
ed in London, buithen 323 tons qjounting rti
guns and may be preoared for few days,
With her Carp,
. Now on Board,
>»HSI STI N9 ot
151 Hogsheads and jo bartels Sugar
260,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hh<|». bibts
and bags
31 Puncheons of Jamaica Rum.
» ——
ALSO,
jjßLati. thi bri °
' mmb jack,
Williamson, Majkr.
FROM L/oimj igo, with her cargo, confiliing of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
r~~jkry the BRIO
' 9%:* AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING n Guns, burthen
two thousand two huudred barrels of
Flour, ahd in aompleat order.—Apply to
Thomas & John Ketland.
' november 13 5
' —j ;
For London,
THK SHIP
Captain Daniel M'Phikson,
WILL be ready to takehffr car
go on board by tl»e I jth inlt.—For terms apply to
Rofs (*f Simfon.
WHO HAVE (OR SALE,
Superior Teneriffe Wine,
In quarter casks
Bengal Sugar, firll quality, in boxes and tags.
A fevr bales of Muslins
Rice in Tierces,
And a small cargo of St. Martih'« SALT.
nocember 9. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
TBS SHIP,
COMMERCE,
John Wood, majier.
This (hip is burthen as ptrregiller 230 Tons,
will be fold on moderate terms or take freight
for Europe or the Well-Indies.
Apply to the Cnptain on board at Latimer's
Wharf, or WILL IXGS fcf FRANCIS.
FOR SALE,
On board said Ship.,
16 Tons of Liverpool house Coal.
' IV ' , j -j---- . dtn
Elliston & John Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, No*tk Water-Street,
e Bandlni HJndker;fiiefc
cZ rt! * Madeira Wine
Lignum Vitsi l°f Lc h ath "
- Sail CaWs A few barrels Shad and
e Oznabrigs Hernngs
° d Alfi For Sale,
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 tons--Bermu
da built, fails remarkably faft and is well found.
nov 8 « jefrw
* For Savannah, (Georgia.)
sa'unc coprEKEO snrr
' Richard West, Mnfter,
TO'fail in tea days.—For freight or pallage ap
-11 ly to STEPHEN KritGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Stre«t.
5 MO B/IS,
, 140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
a quanty of
' Sail Canvass
And a box of Mate, for f»le.
November 6 e*»6t
FOR SALE,
' AS (he arrived from sea—'She is a remarkaWy
• faft failing vefTel built of Cedar and live Oak,
and completely armed. JAMES TTAkD.
nov' 10 d*w
For Sale, or Charter.
THE suir
J o SEPHU s,
H. Kenneby, ATaJler,
NOW lying at Doughty'« wharf,
Rurthen about Two 1 houfand Barrels, is in com
pleat order, and ready to rcceiv a cargo.
For terms apply to
JOHN CRAIG,
No. is, Dock .-trect.
novemher 14 §
ISRAEL PLEASANTS Co.
No 74, South Second ftrect.
Have returnedfrom the cmntry } and have for
SALE, as usual, a large ajfartment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the last vessels fron Europe, confiding
of articlei principally suited to the prefsnt and ap
proaching season
They are determine! to fell off very lorr fer
cafli or Ihort credit.
Note All persons indebted tqthe late firm of
Samurt Pl-nftrrh O" Sun, art ilefired to make im
reeKate payment to th<> fubfcribcrt.
Ifrasl P leaf ants Ssf Co.
Nov. 2 d4W
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
T'WN A. SB AEFFF.R, rt Philadelphia,
J for 1 few yrar« pad been in the southern Statci
has had the effrontery to draw fe*Cr*l Bills of Ej
ctwnge on Timothy Pickering, Secretary 0
State, and mytelf.and by that means ha# defrauds*
a number of persons .of their money, doceivioj
■ them hy an exhibttion-etf-lwrers and papers with th
> names affited of diwri pub+rc charades • and repu
1 table merchants highly recommendatory of fail
Sha.-ffer ; to one of these papers I find my nam
fubfcribed.bw Ido not kr.ow the man ; these ar
villainous forgeries! To prevent further impofitior
I have to request the printer* of Newspapers in th
United States topublilh this far the benefit of thei
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MERKDITH,
Trtafurer of the Vmiltd Stain
Trenton,Ne%u- 7"f r y>~l
October 14, 1798. 3
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide at Filbert Street, betwe«i
Eighth»nd Ninth street, formerly oceupiei
as the Surveyor General's Olliee-—Enqulrt at Nc
111, Chefnut Street.
augufi 10 eaet
To Let,
THE house, No. 78, North Se
e«nd llreet, with or without a (lore and {table—
, The house is large and convenient ; enquire o
f John Litle, No. 40, North sixth street.
Jttober 31. . J Mc&fa. tf
TO BE LET
And immediate poffejfton given,
A LARGE convenient, w«l finilhed houft
AJL No. 4l<» High Rreot, lately occupied b
DoiSor Wiftar, with coach house and 11 ablet——
Enquire of WtLLI/iM SHMAFF.
No. |6B, High !treet
Nov. 1. dtf
. To Be Let,
And immediate poffejfson Given,
A COMIrtOD lOUSThreeStnry ferick Houf
-L V with conv«iient back buildings, lituatei
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnu
ftttets.—For terrtis apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
Nq. Ib, South Fourth Street
OiSl oher it) 4 dtf
WHERfeAs the certificate oftwc
thanes of the Bank of the United States in th
nartit of Samuel Amor), of London, banker
No 3ißz,iffued in lieu of 11591, 11594, wen
forwarded from Lohdcm by the Britilh packe
Counted, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bornnd so
New-Yark, which packet was captured by th.
French, and the said certificate loft ; and for thi
renewal 6f which, application is made at fait
Bank, and all perfo/is concerned are desired tt
take notice. ,
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhila. Oft. »$, 1798. eofrw
Thomas JoShuA Fisher,
ffo. J, Docx-Strbet,
Have for sale,
IMPORTED IN DIFFERENT VESSEL*,
A general ajfortment of
JQaidfe and line Wookns»
7-8 & 4-4 Iriih Linens, Shjetings, Tickenis &c
Scarlet and Cloth colored Cardinals
Hats in b'sxes of 12 dozen each
China,Nankieri Dining fe:ts and cups & saucer
Black Lutestrings, Taffatys and Sittins
Pungtm Cloths and Htjmhnths, Blue and Rei
Cotton, Chappals and Pullicat Romalls
China and Englilh Umbrellas
r Cro A ley Millingtoii Stetl
Tin in Boxes 1-3 x
Shot, Frying Pans and Weeding Hoea
6d, Bd, lod, ud Nails, ®c. &e.
iTth mouth i ditV
The Subscribers
Have received by the late. European th
Following Merchandize,
Skipped them principally
they offer by package to Wholefalc Store Keepers
or others, on very advantageous tsrnis, for calt
approved notes, or Mils of eichaiige on Loridon
Medford Willis,
No. 78, North Front Stradt
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calitoes, furnitures', purple and colorei
(hawls
Muslins, plain, striped, chtcked and fancy
Balalore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and sundry haberdafliery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worsted, cotton and fancy'hbficry
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorklhire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings andduftlis
Caflimeres and fwanfdowns
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Wellh fUnnels
Knapt Kendall cottons
Worsted and mohair plulhes
Pewter, altorted in small calk's
Spaders, (hovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches Ac
100 calks nails aflorted,
nov ii $
HUDSON y YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT ITSEt'T,
H.&E JUST RECEIVED,
Per the lall arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE*ASSORTMENI OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they will dtfpofe of on reafonablc terms,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Suparfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
Elallic and fancy do.
Caffimeres, plains, duflßls
Rofeand strips blankets well aff«rted in fmaj]
bales
Furniture chintzes, cotton? dimeties
Callimancoes, camblcts, durants,moreeos, and
joans
Muring ot all kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetfs and fancy cords
An elegant assortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Ited and grcefl hocking and w«rfti baix'es
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottoriades, (hawl«, printed handkerchiefs
7*B 4-4 11-8 checks
9-8 Sc 5-4 cot on itripe*
Cotton, worsted and silk hosiery
do do Gl0ve«»
Thrcaids, bhidi :gs, tapes, &c. scc.
°ov. 9. dißc
,
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY ins rm« his I'rienda and
the Public in general -hat he carries o» his
1 buftnefs at No 99 Soiiti <ec ld-Jlt-eet, »e*rly »p -
pofita rhe Merchants Coffee house whtre gen
s tlemen may l»« supplied in the neatd* »»d heft
manner—he ass.res ;hofe who may please to fa
j vor him with their command# that no
, or exertion on his fide (hall be Wanting to render
. him worthy of their cncourag-ment.
N. B. Orders received will be at
j tended to.
r novemfer 5 J
On Wednesday looming
WILL BE LANDjED AT HAMILTON'S
WHARF,
And Sold by Public Au£tion,
AT IO O'clock, a. M.
6 Butts Malaga Wine
1 4 Pipes Spmiflk Brandy
1 15 Butts French do.
160 Quarter CalkslSt. Lucar Wine
100 Boxes Olive Oil
For approved tndorfid notes at 60 & 9 3 day*.
Wm SHANNON. Aufttoneer. ■
N. B.—To fach who may purchale for ex- j
-. portation, the «'ece(Tiiy e*poit entry will be
f made for obtaining the draw-back.
Nov. it. ftw
- Samuel Potter, Williifti Page and
Thomas -Price,
' v
t No. JI CHt-SNUT STREET,
f Are now opening a very extenflve ajfortment of
' ~ DRT GOODS,
Suitable to the prtftnt feafoa,
- Which they have just received per
Ships Fa&or, Boyne, Otfego St Independence,
(via Neiu Tori) from LONDON,
- A llo, per ftiips William Penn & Amiable from
1 London, and (hips Sally and Thomas Irom
t Liverpool,
Which they will fell on very hiv ttrms f6r
cci/b or approved notes, viz.
Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and cainz cal
cloths licoes
> Plain & fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz
Plain and Unpad caffi furnitures
, meres A very large quantity of
. Swat fdowns ebinlzet
t Rote and duffill blankets Purple and chintz (bawls
. Red and yellow flannels I in«n and law a pocket
Fine Welch flannels I andkerrhiefs
[ Carpets and carpeting Camels' hair (hawls
I Jeannetts fc tabby cord> av ry large alTrrtment of
Velvetsensfc velveretts ribhonds »t. ;
1 Thickfetti Britifljplain checked,ftri-
Callimancoes, durants & pedand muf
jeans Tins of all descriptions
Silk, cotton, and worsted olorsd bordered (hawls,
hose a great variety
Cotton, callicoe, & twist j-4 and 6-4 conjeveraras
checks and bettvllees
Dimities India book&jaconet muf
-3-4 and 7-8 dowlafs lins
Datnafh table linen Laces and edgings
4-4 and 6-4 (bectings Black and patent lace
lrlffi iuaeco Lace veils and figured
. Ginghams , elb»ko
Bandannocs Pulonge and fattins
A viry large quantity of Perfiant and Cirfantfffc
s fiiik modes
And a variety of other articles.
I Nov 3 tu.thfa.l9l
FOR SALE,
AT THIS OFFICE,
: A I*EW Copies of an ioterefting Work, in
S\ French, entitled a Hiflory of
The Admniiftratiori of the French
Firw.nces,
. DffRING THE TEAR
Also, An HiAorin! and Political View of the
, Adminilli'atfon of the French Republic, during
the yerar 179^, —ef the causes which produc
\ e d the
devolution of the 4th September —
And of 1 tlie results of thai Revolution.
PRICK I COLLAR EACH.
j These two political trails, are from the pen
of the cifltfbrited d'lverriois.and contain athoit
fand interefling disclosures of the lolly, venality
atld profligacy of the dilferent Usurpers who
have reignwd in France du iiig the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution mou' pending in that
mifprable and depraved country.
Nov. 3. f
Smith 8c Rodman,
No. 49, South Front street,
Have jujl received per the William Pent), and
Jane, from London, Dia;:aan</Thofna«
from LirEKPooL, and Kingtton,
from Hon,
A LARGE 3 GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE
Plain, twifl'd and striped Crapes
Coatings ftriped Wildb«re»
Fine white and red Weill) Worltcd, Yarn £f Cotton
Flannels Hof <
Do. yellow and fearlet do. Men »<"* Boys Woollen
Superfine and low pricei ,tn . s k . , „
5-4, 6-4, 7-4, clothe of j? each ' n " l Dow
all colors a * . . . ..
Plains and Halfthick. 3"+ b '° Wn ! , J f L,n ";
f? a jtt * , <mi 9-8 whije and brown Ir-
Eoreft and HOmer Cloths j(h sh i .
Green and Red Drapery FWr & Tc^
a ' ac burgh in balc«
Do. 5-4, 6-4, and 7.4, do DfogJwda (3 >ifo Sifcfiat
Red & green B )ckingd<S. 7 .% an a yar d.wide Irish
SwanfdowiwSs'ToilaneUb Linens
Role, Point itnd Duffill Primed Callicofs&Chin-
Blankets tzes
Superfine London Cafli* Printed Linen nnd bor
mtirenof theneweftanj dcr'd Ha»»dkerchiefs
most fafhionable colors CottoHA C aMicoeChecks
Low priced Yorkthire do. Thread haging* & Laeel
?lain and striped CaUi-i^ fn 'f Bfavcr
mancoes Pm» in small cpfef
Joan Spinnings STDurant»|"? I . 1i, 1 ,, r d *' Bobbin.
Rattmetts & Shalloon, Th.ckfefs »nd Corduroy,
»-rt c ' n """-'
_ s , tßlack and olivt Coilorv
Bdmbazetts and Blaccj a( j f>
With a variety of Otlier Articles 91 hand, for
sale on the most reifonable tnrn>» for calk
or the ufozl ere lit.
Nov. 6 ts,th&fa,tf
To SHip Owners.
BY the dcceafc of three of th; deputy Salt
mearurers, there are' several hall bushels
d and flxikce, iiiul all the coal-tubs mining. If any
» oi thr merchants have any of these measures in
the r .lores, it will ohlige the h,ad incafurer to
- information «f them, at no. gi south
I "l"hird ftrcet.
'4
I . JUST^rkived;
Frsm Bourdeaux,
And for Sale by the Subscriber,
60 Boxes Fresh Raisin*
118 doeen Ladies long Gloves
116 ditto ditto short ditto
ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
aud Black Lace.
WILLIAM LTNCH.
No S, Penn-fireet >
liovcmber -p. j lot
A Li. havjn., any legal demand- »«
■ P' nll the estate of William /wifo.fcce fed,
lat- clth* city of Philadelphia, Tavern keener, are
requefled to furnilb thiir accounts properly au
thenticated, and all ptrfons indebted to fai'',eflatc
j are r .quelled to make payment to the fubfcr:btr in
j Philadelphia.
j IEVI HOLLINOSWORTH Adminr.
e oanb. r i It, ;tp&
Ship C 5" iji/uronce Urokcr,
" - r T I HE Subfiriber, encouraged by the advi' e qf
i X his friends, offers his to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Br. ker.— He propef
e» to buy and fell v-flels and every tiling relate
. ingthereto—a fit ft aiafteri of vvlTefsand oiherf
' in entering and clearing at the Cnfrora-Honfe,
procuring'and (hipping -fWvht, fettling Infuj'-
anet ar.<! all < tlier mccantile accoun s, and
have on hand the nectfiary "Blanks inrf Stamps.
Papers in foreign Hng'iages translated, and in
formation given in genrral mercantile Jturs.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of hufinefs he hopes to'be ufe
-1 lui to those who please to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
. P.iilrdelpliia, aupuft 14th, 1798
FOR SALE, *
By Fishbourn Wharton,
at No. 1a 8 South Fourtb-Jlrcet.
s China Ware,
Nankeens
Teas
s Boglipores
Lutestrings, £s*
Silk Shawls.
f nov n cdtf
Imported,
and for sale by
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 9, South Water Strict,
" A SuAN-rirroF
Surinam Cotton and Coffee.
Irilh l.ner.s, in whole and half boxes
Checks
Drogheda linen
d Irilh hackled Flax
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
AL'SO A rAfttfEL OF
Men's and Women's Combs aflbrted.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hogflieads of prime Aux Cave*
MOLASSES.
T' mo T3th
For Sate,
60 Boxes White Havanna}
n 143 do Brown do >SUGAR
48 hhd«. do do J
1 Which are now Landing atCheLi>t.flreeS
Wharf, from on board the brig George.
Also for Sale,
t 100 Hhds. of Prime Coffee, *
j Old Madeira Wine of the firft quality
Carolina Indigo
Coarse £afl India Sugars
Window Glals '
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs, (sf
1. A quantity of India Muslins & Chintzes,
John Craig
n No. II Dock Jireet.
<- " 0V M _ ' $
y Jamaica & Po» t-au-Prince 1 Entitled
° Sugars \ tod- ait,
t Madeira Wines ) back
Ground Ginger, and
Tanner's Oil,
FOR SALE BY
Wharton £ff Lewis,
n«. 115 south Front street
d nov. 14 af t?w»f
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good banc!, underfhnds
accounts andean be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afliftant in a
Wholeiale Store, or Connting-houfe. Appli
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 f
3 To be Let,
" AND POSSESSION GlfElf
OW THE 14 TH APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
- Now in the' pc.fTcfl! mof Samuel liichard#t.
Apply at this Office,
novamher 13 5
" EOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tierces
: tS:,?'} »«•»•
Carolina End Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skin*.
Apply to
N. &? J. Frazieryr
Ko. 95, So. Front Street
november 13 3taw?w
ALL PERSONS, *
HAVING demands aj*ain(t the Estate of
Henry Schaffk*, deceased, late the
City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeeper
are requefled to their accounts properfy
authenticated and all persons indebted to laid
Eftat are desired to make speedy payment to
CAM'AH. W. HAINES, > . .
FREDERICK CAUL, $ «« m »"Jlratori..
ntfi mo. J3 ®Jaaw"*»^The Creditors j
p; w:;i iam Steedrran and John Smith, of (
County of Northumberland, in the
State -f Pennsylvania, lately trading Un
der the Firm nf
iVrcfDMAN & Smith,
Wti XKKMOTICE, that the .Snhfcribers
have application to the Judges of the
Cour' of Com-non Pleii for the County of dor
ttun>berlao« aforefaid, he benefit of the several
la'vs of rite State of Pennfyivafliv paiTed far the
relief of infolv«r;t Oebrers, and that the said ('ourt |
hath appoinred the Thirtieth d y of November
next, brins? the Fjidayof the Court of Common j
Pleas, to hrar us and our Creditors at Sunbury, in
the County of Northumberland, at which time and
place'you may if you rhink proper.
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
Northumberland, N<;vtm,i.r I, 1798.
nvvc*n'»cT 7 raw^w
To the Creditors
Of Wili'ai M 4 Clelland, of Northumberland
Connty, *;» the Slate of Penniyivania.
take Notice,
THAT > have applied to the Judgei of the Cour'
ot Common m and for the County ©f
NohhummerUnd, f« r ih<? betiefic of the several laws
#f Fennfylvania, j.alfed ior the relief ot Infofvent ;
Debtors; and tie Judges of the said Conrt have ap- (
pointed the Thirtieth day ol >T6ven.ber init be
ing th? F' i lay oi" the court jof Common Pleas for -
the Cour; y of Northumberland, to heai me and
my Civdi'o » at the C»»urt House in Sunburr, at
which':(me c»nd place m.y Creditors may attend if
they think propc*. \
Wm. M"c cleland. c
Northumberland, November I, 1798.
rovemSir7. lawjw
Notice is hereHy Given,
/VH \T app ic ition will be made a t the Trea- I j
i lury of the United States'for the renewal I t
following ceriificates of Six per Cents,
i VSt —Handing in the name of Robert
}" r-f Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
-n us |ii-, honorable United Company of
if Englard trading to the Eaft-In- „
• h were loft from on board the Swal
. • ;'-i.ket, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New- -
V . k. Dolls. Cts.
No 1C,444, lieg. office 14th Dec. ,
1 793, one certificate fur '73J 33
No (0.478, He;; office 171'n Dec.
1793, OW certificate for 195 g so »
EUi/lon & John Perot.
nov I', eod6w
JLDUCA i lON. ~
r
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School, 1
IN CHURCH ALLEY, 1
IS open again,/or intruding Girli in Readiug,
V riting. Arithmetic, G.an-.mar, Geography,
including the Elements of Geometry, and the use
cf the Globe*.—From the'great encouragement he
has hitherto received, he refpeClfully solicit« a con ■*
tinuir.ee of the favours of his Friends and the
Public.
c? An Evening School,
Tor B 0 T S—Kept at the fame place.
It m 6ii aaw4w
Canal Lottery, No. 11. „
Will re-commence drawing in the course of ~
tQe present month. ,
i TCKE ,rS to behrfd Eight Dollars each, at L
1 WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery 13
and Hr-kei ? office, No. 64 South Second-flreet, p
where cheek books are kept for regiflering end
examination of Tickets in the above, City of
Wellington and Pattcrfon'Lotteiies, &c.
STATI Or THi Wit IXL,
Oneprizeof 10,000 dollars 10,000
• Five 4,oo« ao,ooo ,
Tw» . a,OOO 4,000 *■
Two i,oco »,000 &
Ten 500 ' , 5, 009
Twenty- even 100 5,400
With a full proportion of the one hundred
Wid of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is
more than two thirds drawn and above 15,000
dollars rieher than at the commencemtnt.
0' Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all i(s branches. ' P 6
nov 9 law ag
Bank of the United States. St
November 14, 1798. to
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN X . {]
THAT application will be made at theTrea
fury of the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No. 15,548, fur 18,781 dollars, 33 cents, dated
lvegifter's Office, January Bth, 1798, ilTued in
the names of William IVillink, 'Jan Willini,
Nicholas Jacob Van Stapborjl & Hubbard,
Tri,flees far sundry money-lenders in Amfter- 1 t
dim; which was forwarded the nthof Janua- -
ry, 1 under cover to Nicholas Obbes esq. in
and loft by the capture of the (hip Columbus,
eaptain Skinner,from Ntw-York forAmfterdam
G. Simpfon, cnfh'r.
nov 14 iaw6w
Light Dollars Reward-
J\ ROBBERY was committed on
the 17th inftr.nt, at th- house of the fub
fcribcr in the townlhip of Solebury by two negro 1
men —they carried off a quantity of calh ; a p#ck-
et book, containing fo-ne valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, &c.—One «f the negroes is a ■jfidHle
man, known by the name of John White, for
merly a resident of Philadelphia, has an impedi- A
metit in his speech—the other supposed to be
a runaway, about eighteen years of age, of ? or
of middl; stature. Whscver fiicures the aforefaid ' ,s
villains (» that they may be brought to justice, shall We
receive eight dollars reward, or four for either of qui
them taken leparately.
ISAUH TUCMtEMONEY. lor'
Solebury, 10 Mo. 19th, 1798. —3t.law (
John J. Parry,
CLOCK to* WATCHMAKER,
I
HAS again opened at bis usual Stand, No» 38*
South Second ftreet —'where be has for Sale t
A VARIITV OP
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,
AND A FEW
Eight Day Cclocks,
ff'bich •wilt he zutirranted to give fatisfaction.
An aflortment of " m
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains. Seals and Keys. '
AH Hinds of Clock and Watch <wori rlone <uiitb
particular attention as heretofore.
0- An Appren'ice wanted. K
november I a m.ivlsffjtut. req
Hprl'cs ;o Winter.
HORkF.S will be t:ken in to winter atPae
srccT Hill, at the I; Milestone, on the
l'ridol road ; they veiU be well fed with clover
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will alfohave a l.rg* field to exercise tbemfrlves
in when the weather is good.—EsKjuifre cf Mr.
£Ji, merthac:, Wa'.et llr«et, or on th. Are
rrcmifes, tlie
Jlcv. 7 ml ti B
Printing Work,
of Of Every Kind,
the EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
Un- NOTICE,
At the Off ICE of the GAZtTTE of the
United States,
oa. 13.
b ri" NOTICE.
for- QAMUEL RICHARDST, inform* the Gcntle
eral Snbfcribcri, that th tEXCHANGE^
i« for their recep.ion ; and the C 1 T 1
>urt \ <r j{ y E R N, ior Gentlemen and Travellers
k er Last Spring added an addition As twelve Bad
nt ? n I Chambers to the fide btoilding, Which makts it-,
* pcrfe&fy convenient.
a # november 6 .t»i . taw
N * v N O T I c E,
A I»I» Persons having claims upon the Estate
of James Tborburn, Stonecutter, deceaf
- ed, are desired to present them for payment —
and these indebted to pay their refpedlive bal- ,
nd lances to (
Benjamin W. Morris, adminiflrator.
nov j4 3»wjw (
iuf Mrs. SCOTT
'®f Informs her Friends in the City, and likcwjfe I
IWS those who fiill remain in the Country, tbatfhe (
ent has returned home with her Family, to No. I,
j"P" Carter's Alley.
° c " N v. to eojt.
■ n °d WANTED; {
at A PAIR UF CARRIAGE HORSES,
if (BLACK would ba preferred.) Apply at No.
114, Sprue® street, between Third an J Fourth r
streets. a
in * %t r
- BALLAST: *
A QUANTITY 10 b' disposed of, if applied for '
immediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lying p
ral I t Mb. HCMPHREY's Ship Yaid.
t S) novemh<Tio. j J
I' WANTED,
A MIDDLE. AGED if OMAN, p
WHO undcrftands Cooking, and Housework a
n " generally. Enquire at No. 109, Walnut street.
■*'- ncvemtcrii eo6t
Horses to Winter. P
HORSES taken in to Win er at Peel Hall n
F?rai, two miles from the City on the g
WifijhickSn road.The terms may be known at d
No ji, North Third-street. f,
nov 11 cod lot
* # * The Custom House is re
movedfrom Cheiler to tlie City, and °
1 ? is again opened at the usual place. j,
November i $
?— a i
Lniverfity of Pennfylxania. f<
fe' h'ov 8, 1798. ir
THE different Schools will be opened on
n Thursday the 15th instant. By b^der t vw
ic Wm. ROGERS, Sec'y. c <
Umverfity cf Pennsylvania, p
Nov.
The Medical Le&ures, in the University, t J
will aHutrily commence on Monday, the 26th .
of this month. itz6 3
r i
The Insurance Office of d
it SHOEMAKER & BERRETT, u
is again opened at na. 39 north Water street—At- ' r
t tendance will also be given at thtir room at the
J Coffee-houfe asufaal, from is 'till » o'clock. aj
,f "mo: 5, 1798 <js t
' ti
CjT The OFFTCF. • 0 |
0 of the "BoSl'c! of Commiilioners, under E
0 the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity, "■'
0 &c. with Great Britain, is returned to °'
No. 129 Mulberry street. w
d t* T ov. 12- th
1 c 3" THE OFFICE ;fl
OF the Committee appointed to fu- th
perintend the building of the Frigate, is so
again opened at No. 95, South Front tc f
Street, where attendance will be given "
to receive the fubferiptions of those gen
tleman who have not yet made payments, gt
1 november 12. dtf m '
, ——; so
1 * # * The Public are informed that the
1 Alderman's Court of this City, will re- va
| new their fittings on Thursday next the a "
- 15th of November inft. at ten o'clock
' in the forenoon at the City-Hall as usual. va
! nov 9 i O ,
TO RENT,
A convenient HOUSE, about
twenty feet front'with back buildings—corner of
Third and Cherry street*. Enquire of
J. HALLOWELL,
no. jo, Walnut-street.
1 nov. 10, «dtw "3
• —■— —. — tdi
TO BE RENTED, fav
( And immediate pojjejfion given, J on
A LARGE three story BRICK HOUSE, kn
situate in Walnut-street—The rooms are th£
commodious, airy and private—from which,and "Pt
its central posit on, it is thought to be an eligi
ble situation far a Public Office. For termi, en
quire of BEN J. IV. MORRIS. CI P
Akfo, A commodious Ware Houle, n Tay- I S rt
lor's Alley. ' the
O&ober 19. r 3tawiw agi
Female Education. °he
James A. Neal's School,
JOR TH F TUITION OF
rouNG Ladies,
Will re-commence on Monday, the 12ih of the
November, at his School Room, No. 28, are
Carter's illey. an{ j
03" The Evening School infl
Will be opened, as usual, at the fame time
end place. pof
November 3 den
1 — con
ALL PERSONS, the
HAVING claims againll the Estats of met
SUSANh AH LOCK.FER, deceased, are Ijfh,
requested to nrefent their refpeSive accounts to „x,
NATHAN A. SMITH,-) „ f e ®
oz L harj
JOHN DORSET, ] Seculars.
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE tior
Lately r.cenpiod liv Snf'nnab Lockyer, toeether
with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be difpoftd of ] ime will be given for 1
the Uiter on uo-tAv«piior.aljle feeurity. Zui
DOV 9 nou
Hate Joreigit
(VIA BOSTON.)
CONSTANTINOPLE, August ib. \
Revolutionary Commotions• 1
A great fermentation ftil! reigns in this •
capital, and the police will be forced to re
ltle. double it's vigilance in order to hinder the '
0 E people from committing violence upon the (
3*l* French who are here. However the go- '
vernment still continues to aft with modera
§ tion and caution towardslhem. Every one
interprets this ctfridutt according to hts own
w wishes of opinion. Some fee in it a secret t
intellrgence with the French, others believe t
it to be only an a£fc of eircumfpeftion, which I
tate agrees with the secrecy of the military ope- c
eaf- rations that are preparing. If any thing P
it — can solve this specie« of problem, it is the ''
h a '" prdfrs iflued by the Porte to all the provinces
of the Empire. The preamble ii conceived n
in terms of the must marked indignation ; c |
the proceedings of the French is there re- b
presented as the most unjust a<s of aggref- tr
fioti and highly contrary to the faith of
J treaties. I hefe orders perfcribe measures
' *' offeiafive and hostile.
It. The Englitfi Minifler appears to have
muchi influenced these determinations, and te
his a&ive zeal negleds nothing that carj pe
0- tend to fl lengthen the energy of govern- 111
rth ment. The Ruffian Ambaflador does not
appear to fhew.ltfs aftivity in his negocia
' lions; but we do not remark a concert in
ftie operations of the two Mioifters, and if
f or they tend to the fame end, the means they
ing purfuc are widely different.
Buonaparte has addressed a letter to the
_ Divan, in which he fays, tbat if the Otto- p,
man Porte should permit the Ruffian fleet to
pass the Dardanelles, he lhall consider it as
a declaration of war.
He requires the Grand Signior to put
aside all the pretensions of Russia ; to op- COl
pose firmly all attempts which that Court ! e £
all might make ; and adds, that he has the
he greatest reason to expeft fach a line of con
at dudt from him, as he has delivered him Tl
from hrs gieateft enemies, the Knights of liv
_ Malta. Fr
e- Phe Porte received on the 31ft ult. the a ' )l
Jt | confirmation of Buonaparte's debarkation t ' u
«'t Alexandria. Possessing that city, with
little resistance, he immediately proceeded
_ against Rofetta, the garrison of which being j, a
few in number, fled at his approach He chi
immediately afterwards dire&ed his march the
on to Grand Cairo. We are not acquainted
with what has since passed, but it appears ani
_ certain that the Beys, forgetful of their
personal animosities, have united closely, 0 f
and have collefted a confiderabl: number of
troops, which has been much increased by wh
the Arabs. This army stationed itfelf at wh
about twenty leagues from Rofetta, be- ani
_ tween that town and Cairo, with a view to the
dispute the passage. It is further added,
Pacha of Palestine has also succeeded \^ u
in cSßeaing a large body of men, at the "hij.
he head of which he was to have marched am
against Alexandria. the
The many incoherent reports in circula-
tion ass ord reason for flicking entirely to the the
official accoLinio weirrrl hy the IWto fmm
er Damietta, dated July 18, which fay, that
the'Freneh were entrenched in the environs
to Rofetta » ten lea g u<; B from Alexandria,
and in fight of the army of the Beys} which 1
was o«Iy the diitance of half a league from .vf
the French camp. . '
Official letters from the Canea, (in the
■Hand of Candia) dated July 18, mention
1- the appearance of an Euglifh flquadron be- T
is fore that island. The Commander of it, as- ,° r
lt ter having enquired concerning the course fl Lt
of the French fleet, determined to fail di
n reftly for Egypt. torl
l " A letter from Smyrna, ,of the Ift of Au- r
s. gutt, mentions that the fame squadron was
met with beyond Rhodes, with a fair wind "
for Egypt. , 1£
ie The Porte, it is confirmed has made ad- ™. n
vantageous offers of peace to PafTowa Og.u, f
e and proposed to make him Pacha of Servia, 7,
, which lall honor, however, he has declined,
and fays, he only wilhes td remain as a pri
1. vate Janissary, whose righte, &e. he had so , .
long defended. at '
the
t SEMLIN, August 25.
1 Turlifb Rebellion. P ail
The army of the captain Pacha is almost C ° n
entirely deserted, and he has gone to Con-' WC
ftantinople. The greatest part of the Ot- f° n
tdman troops have --nteredthe army of Pas- ,
fawan Ogloa, or rather, tanged themselves 16
on the fide of the Janifaries ; for, it is well J"'"
, knows, that it was on account ot the latter , "
c that the war broke out between the grand i- 1
1 Turk and Paffawan Oglou ; because an at
* tempt was made to fubjeft hem to the dis
cipline of the other military corps. The 3VC
, greatest part of the Divan secretly favor COnl
the Rebels ; and almost all the Pachas sent ° am
against PafTawan Oglou have joined him, and t '? n
■ openly declared themfclves the eaemics of W "
the sublime Porte. nUfr
and
BERNE, August 26. m P
The troubles which have broken out in a ". C
r theCautons of Schwitz and Utterwallen, "P 1 "
, are more serious than was at firft supposed,' havi
and appear to have been excited by foreign mull
influence.. 120
The people have again declared their op- in S
position the conflitution. They have an< '
demanded their former liberty, insulted the
conflicted authoyties, held afTemblies as De "
the communes ordered barricades, entrench
ments, &c. &c. Order is however re-cftab T h
lifhed in the canton of Schwitz. The Di- fceoe
re&ory, of which the a&ual Prefid»nt is Le- tendi
harpe, has addressed a proclamation to the " on
citizen, ofthe canton of Wakleftalt. in which fori
their crimes are pointed out, and an iuvita- "ow
tion given to return to their duty. '• le f
ARAU, August 28. Thro
All the letters which wc received from we,e
Zurich, and the country of the GrifonMin
jounce, tl»t the Austria,» have peffeffed
» 0
thenifebes of Coire j and, that a battle had |
£ been fought between them and the French
Troops. Our frontiers are threatened by !
the imperial troops, which are assembled !
there to the number of thirty battalions and
ten squadrons. Austria thus breaks all the
treaties which (he has with us. The goods ■
j s and effects of which we unfortunately have
rf _ too great a quantity in the. A tiftriaii States
are seized.
t h e The troops commanded by General
„ Qm Jjhauemburg, are all in movement towards
fra . the menaced point.
STRASBOURG, Sep. 3 .
The count de Mettemich, yesterday delivered ]
to the deputation of the empire, the lad note of ]
c ve the French miniflers, which was taken into cor.- ]
ich by the deputation. It is uot yet de- t
pe- cided whether the latter will afc»de to the pro- ,
|ng portions of the French legaripn ; however, it
the s een t ' lat f ever 3' of the empire, fear
ing that an absolute refujal would only bring on I
, the diflolution of the Gongrefe and the re-com- fl
' e mencement of hoflilities, are using theirntmoft ]i
10 » efforts to obtain the consent of the deputation ;
re- but the Auflrian miniflers redoubletheir intrigues •
ef- to get it reje<sled. We wait with much anxiety
of the answer of the deputation, which will pru
rcs bably", decide the question of peace or war. 31
tl
BERLIN, Aug. aB. h
lVe Our cabinet has just received difagreeible in- Q|
nd telligence. Symptoms of a conspiracy have ip
arj peared in Poland. Men, v, ho are thought best
n- infbrmed upon this fubjeiH, fay that nothing is
ot wanted to hasten this dreaded explosion but an
happy event in the Mediterranean. m
—— a
Y Latest from England.
;y J fr,
The faip Cumberland, cap!. Scott, arrived at la:
Portland, from Liverpool, via Dublin, has p\
,e bt ought the following Nevjs : p. t
Further, and the latest, un-official accounts fjj
to of the Mediterranean fleets.
as
LONDON, Sept. *i.
Nt We yesterday flopped the pi«f» to announce a
p. coirinumca'ioQ which had been made hy theTe- * ei
ft legraph to the admiralty, of French papers hav
le ' n § received at Dover, and one of them C«
coiitainiiigaa account of thedefeat of the French gu
" fleet in the Mediterranean by fir Horatio Nelson.. nil
This c. mmunicatioa r.f courl'e excited a most an
of lively intcreA and anxiety. In the evening the
French papers reached town, and the articles CU
, e above slluded to we found in a supplement to .
|lt the itektftwofthe 14th, in the following terms: ln J
- Jo
i d P ar^e landed on the firft of July, with the wa
whole of his army, at Alexandria, that after z' lt
S having entered into a treaty of amity with the
le chiefs of the Arabs, he directed his march along ~j
:h the Nils to Grand Cairo, which he entered on e
.(J the 23d July, at the head of the French army, ' er
rs and thai having rendered himfelf master of 'Y°
j r Lower Egypt he was continuing his march.— ;nu
The fame letters inform us, that the squadron i wh
'' of admiral Brueys had anchored on the coast of th<
3t Bignieres, and was preparing to return to France u e
iy when it was attacked by the Englift fquadmß, r
it which was superior to ours, both in the.number ! i?'
c . and the size of the vefiels ; that on both fides ' M<
0 the aflion was maintained with a degree of ob- ri
j Jl'iacy, of which hiflory affords no example ; wa
' that during the aft ion the vessel of the French ad- ' hoi
miral was burnt; that two or three French J n f
ships funk ; and that fame others, both Evgli/h •
d and French, >an aground, after having 10/ l nil I ,
their majls ; and that, finally, fame other French ,
Ibips, quite diftbled, remained on the Jpot -where '■ P' a
£ the battle was fought. We are muck alarmed the
n — ■ . 1■"
it ~
„ London, September 20.
Sun Office, half pad one, P. M. At
h ' We stop the press to announce, that wc dri
learn from undoubted authority, that by i wh
the admiralty Telegraph intelligence has ! gai
just been couveyed, if a French paper of! fro
a the 15th having been this forenoon landed 1 firr
at Dover, containing the very gratifying in- cnt
. formation of an action having taken place par
between admiral Nelson and the French vie
fleet, in which the Brrtifh was happily vie- for
toriou9.
Tlie various accounts which have been re- riv.
j ce' refpedmg the operations of tfte and
French army under Buonaparte, hav<r much is f
contributed to perplex the public opinion.
That of Saturday, by the Hamburg mail,
'of the French having fuflaintd a very con- •,
fiderable defeat, seemed to', be contradlfted t
' and overthrown by the account received by ? '
3 the India Company, from their agent °| C
at Conilantineple ; while on the other hand r
. ft'i'ements by the mail which arrived on Cm
Monday, seemed to confirm those brought are .
by the former. We have been at great n",
pains tu trace these various accounts, to "
[ compare and to digest them ; and we think afe
we can fay with a considerable degree of 3p ?
confidence ; that the company's agent must a C
have adopted vague and hasty reports, while W °"
j le lllt *lligence by the mails was founded on '
[ more authentic information. By. letters
from Couftantinople, of as recent a date a? T 3
, those received by the overland dispatch, and
winch amount in fad to offieial authority, it W ° l '
seems certain that Buonaparte had received 3 ™
, a very considerable defeat near Rofetta, in ' C k ' S
; consequence of which he vas obliged to en- I
camp and entrench himfelf. I n this situa
tion he could neither advance nor retreat, S , CB '
. while the Arabs we e collecting in immense 161
numbers with the determination to attack
and overwhelm him. Fir m a view of the v\
rap, and after a temperate consideration of e left
all circumftaoces, we are (trengtliened in our diftr
opinion that the accounts of Buonaparte The
having pofTeffed himfelf of Grand Cairo, th,t
mult be unfoundsd. It is a parch of about hi^ U
120 or 130 miles through a country present- n
>"g innumerable difficulties ta any army. Zt
smd more particuUrly when that army must inter
be harrafTed and befei byfuch superior num- freer
ber »" tion
- be si
TV i~r, • Sep'rmber 18. hefit
N The Cilalpine ir,d Roman Republicks are the
fceoes ofmuch aeiiation Tk,r
tonrfi,.. 6 ! .' 'rmer 15 rent bv con- a ""<
tfon P thC l,tta by induce
for A lS n t edlhi f ld 7 fmm Dubli ". W, happy
noJfo^7^r;L or , ri r a " d *"«"• -
. i f 'hit hardly anv u nci
" 'f;° us ">m T u mcatc lbe w / y
theFniwir " ? TJ ' " alUom T.uni<»ti„„ brfwecn mOV
-
A (hip from lialtimorc for Ma.ur.ico has bre-, t»
ken by a pr„„, er) ,„, Krn bv (h( . *'' »- m<jr
£r!salc,acu feat into Am i £u ». g-'eua
: had I ~ * A n *-FORT (Gtr t a..
ench , Most °f'he Frci-.ch gencralj hav,7S"
j gISSttZiSX ifiSl*
S3. •*" < •*— w - -Sjfcs?
1 the 'f The Landgrave of Hefle Caffel u,
oods P ' ac " of country D f Ha „ * der «» •« th.
h°ve I " tr ° 3P '''° fccare l;s £«4r l ° be#cc lS
tates DUBLIN, SeDtemk
a second coi£Efe * ■
rc er al the admrralty. Telegraph at T f e 'W
,„d, Thursday ,» 'J «£•*. W „
Nelson's viftory fi a3 bcen • *" of - adm.V a I
notified ;it w a , undergo*
our correspondent's letter «,i i"8 l °
xred parte had been purport' r„ff ' BB oa.
teof his men at Alexandra f D 3** !° M
Z n ~ P . orte ftlculd bi r °uled to a f fn r er /. the
pro- tlon a £ aln * France; that a ,l C .°{ md, <P&.
r - i[ had tlurcfo|rer - Nc ' f ° B
ear . he difcovrrcd that he had * ,a < w hen
gon French fleet, but that havi, g"' C ' Pa,Cd ,he
om- short time, he found that fleet Tl in a
nnft ly disposed that he rfttackerl » 'on,lDate
™ : hap:>ic(l success, captarinp- rl ' W ' ttl llle
ieiy in S four ni 'P s of ine;" 10(1 burD "
3ro . Should Buonaparte reach Sum j
are much inclined to think it will 3nd We
that objedt, our chief chance f or
his further progress towards Tadia
' on the event of Commodore Bla k/, " P "
A In * ' he „ St " aits of •Babelmandtl, at , hr
, 16 of the Red Sea, in time to prtve it - •
au ting out. These Straits are only about?"'
« land express from HindodL We T"
Mt Py to I<arn that it conveys mte% e «
general and perfeft tranquil tv Bret I
Z<maun Shaw »»tafc5 i<k J
don, P ,frT'l-' bUt tbe fil " of his
e a riV u 'i was fuppuf;4 ' «'oum dt
re- t , er ,. h,m fr ™ h ,s threatened i ß v a f lott 0 f H ; n
IV . dollan. The letters and n*wfn an „ rK /
:m Calcutta to the 1 5 th of Marc/,, J t J'T
ch gularly barren of intelligence. The f
m. mander in chief reviewing the Futty GW
he ""? ta ° ther " ncam P m "t 3 onhis return to C»l
---to . hakeem Catnger Khan wrote the follow.
is: ln g letter io Jaggonnauth Row- « Sir
,a- John Shore, with other Sirdats, i s on h i,
he way from Calcutta, to visit the Nabob Vi.
•er zier, at Lucknow. Colontl Palmer is also
ng f'"g from thehc, to Lucknow, and has
o * desired me (Hakeem Camger Khan) laat
yj tend him j he also desired me to require of
of j you the strength of your army, «nd the
- number of your artillery ; and to enquire at
on i what place you had appointed to encflunter
ot the forces of the Khan ; all which you will
be good enough t© inttrud me upon."-
l£ r Jaggonnauth Row thereupon dire&ed hij
Its J MoonJhee to draw out a repart of the
,4. strength of his army and artillery, which
?; was accordingly done as follows: jo,ooo
d- horse complete for battle—3o battalions of
\fh -"/-try— a battering train, confining of 20
nil P ieccß or cannon > /of a large ralibre—and a'
cb fis, d train of 130 pieces of cannon. The
re ; P lace appointed to contend with the Shah lg
-d the neighbourjiood of O'migupour.
VIENNA, September 1.
We learn from Condantinople ps the aotS
Aug. that Buonaparte'> landing at Alexan
rc dria has highly irritated the Divan and the
>v i whole Turkiih nation. He attempted to
as gain possession of Rofetta in order to go
of J from thence to Cairo, but was refilled so
firmly, chat he was obliged to retreat and
n- entrench himfelf in his camp. Lang pre
:e paration has been made here to fruftrate his
•h v 'ews. The only magazines that are formed
c- for his army, were made here-and-there,
by fo.ne 1 urkifh Jews, with the intention '
of felling them to the French on their ar.
£> rival, aud these Jews have been taken
ie and puaifhed. The captain Pacha will, it
h is said, march against Buonaparte.
1.
j' NEW-BRUNSWICK, Nov. 13.
We are informed that some young ladies
of this city to the number of fifteen ha»e as-
forced a handsome specimen of their bene-
volence and generoiitv, in taking as many
female children under their patronage, who
are either orphans orwhofe parents arepoor
c and unable to provide for their education—
-1 The children are sent to the fame school,
are provided with clething to make them
j. appear decent at church, and their tuition
paid for by the young ladies.—Quere—
would it not be a handsome thing, if as ma
c ny young gentlemen would imitate the ge
n nrrofity of the ladies, and feleci from the
s walks of poverty, from the house of tbe wi
j dow and orphan, as many male children at
would match the former, and fend them to
j a man of good charafter whoie pleafinj talk
it is "to rear the tender thought and teach
1 the young idea how ta (hoot."
N. B. It is said that some of th« yeung
geßtlemen have likewise exhibited proof» of
their generosity in the fame way.
' RUTLAND, Nov j.
• Warrants are ifTued by the Governor for the
f eledtion of a repre!en ative to 'Congrefi for this
r diftnfl en the firft Tuei'day of December next.
- The patriotic freemen are desired to remember
that tbecontefi is now become a matter of the
J highest importance. It is not a di'pnte in favor
of any particular individual, but it refpefts ikt
exigence and fupporl of our c»nflituU»n and gov
• eminent. Whether the American or the French
t interelt (hall prevatl, and which of them the
. freemen of this diftriel willfupp irt, ii the ques
tion to be decided at the next eleflion. Is it | B
be supposed lhat any friend to his country will
hesitate about giving his vote in favor of one of
. the federal candidates ? of tljeft Samuel iVd.i
. amj, c(q. flands the highest ®n the lift.
~ POSl'-OFFICET" "
; Philadelphia, 9th Nov. 1798.
i The Poft-Office will be re
[ moved to its usual place, No. 34, South
Front-street, on Saturday the 10th inft
-1 at 1 a o'clock noon, and on Monday
• morning tHe letter carriers will begin to
deliver, in their diftn6ts y as formerly.■ L*—"..L"— U ' ' I -~| ']
NEW-York, NOV. 14.
The fliip Adventure, Captain Berry,
which arrived here yesterday, failed from
Greenock on the 27th Sept.
We have received Glalgow papers to
.the 25th of the fame month, and Lon
don papers to Che 21 ft. The most im
vjortant article in the Glalgow papers, is
that refpe&ing the engagement between
the Mediterranean fleets.
Capt. Bland, of the. English sloop
L-'Efpoir, of 14 guns, on the 7th Sept. j
after an obstinate a<H:ion ; in-the Mediter
ranean, captured the Genoese frigate
Liguria, of 42 guns ! We shall pubHfh
the official letter of this truly gallant ac
tion.
Ireland was in a great degree of tran
quility.
The 3 per cent, consols were up to
50 3-4
The ship John arrived at Greenock
in 34 days from Charleston.
GLASGOW. September 25.
Paris papers till 17 th inft. have been re
ceived (ince our last. Py these it appears,
that admiral Ntlfon has, by the total de
struction of the French fleet, o'n its return
from \lcxdria, made ample amends for his
former ill lutk. " The squadron If admi j
ral Brilcys," fay* the Suoplimeut to the
Redafteur of the 14'h inft. " which was
moored off Begnierts, was attacked by the
Britiih ike ; on both fides t'e adti <n was 1
maintained with a degree of ob'tinaey which
history doe not afford an ticamiilc. 'Dur
fng the action the vesT 1 of the French ad
m'ra hlew Two or 'hr«c of our (h/tjs
were funk. Others, both British and French,
werediivon on shore ; others of the French ;
velfrls remained totally disabled on the scene
of adioii. We are anxious for their fate "
The authenticity of this intelligence, which
was repeated in'the Pari- papers of the 15th
and 16th his been doubled by many, be
cause it had fir ft appeared o r ly in the Sup
plement of the Rtda&eur ; but when we
confidcr that the Supplement also contains a
from the diredlory to the council
of Five Hundred, on the fubjed of Buon
aparte's entra ce into Egypt, which is cer
tainly official ; and that it has been the po
licy of tha French government, from the
days of Barrere to the present, to commu- j
nicate the bad news which they could not
conceal, linger the covert of some intelli
gence more consoling ; these relutant con
fellionß of the direftory ieem fafficient, in
our cpiuion, to juftify our yielding almolt
implicit credit to the rep.irt.
The mefTage to the dirtftory on the fub
jeft of Bnonaplrte's entrance into Egypt, i
a copy of which will be found under the j
French department, is a fort of manifefto,
in which .the dire&ory unbliTfttrhgle malt*
the wrongs»f the \r'abs of forty years en
durance, the pretence for an aggression ob
viously founded i • i ordinate ambition'and
□ spirit of aggrandizement.
There is now no doubt that Buonaparte,
reached Cairo on the 22d July. It would
appear, therefore, that the opposition he
met with 011 the way thither for Alexandria,
if u? met w:th any, was extremely impo
tent. It is also probable, that the ultimate
object of !iis expedition is India, with a
view to deitioy the power and interest of
Great liritain in that quarter, to the at
tainment of which the pofTrflion of Egypt
is a necessary appendage.
These papeis also contain a letter from
Savary and fiom gener 1 Humbert to the
minister sf marine, on the landing of the
French in Ireland. Sangu.ne as it would
thence appea were the hopes of Humbert,
th y have, happily for this country, been
completely frudrated. Two, some fay ten,
fail ps the line and (even frigates, under the
command of admiral do Galles, have, it is
said, failed from Brcll for Ireland.
the report rot'ght by the master of a vefiel
irrived in the Clyde from Newry, of the land
ir" <>( "inie more 1' eneamen in Ireland, notic
ed in imr Lft, has lince neeu confirmed by the
lnfh papers. N .p,,«r Tandv, the expatriated
rJtn, t, ".v3s, it feemt, their leader, and iffiie I
t«o .addrofT s w the United Irifhrnen, which
svill be toiind und:r the Irilh department. The
s elle^ in which they had rs-embarked for France
it is said, has been captured.
LONDON, September, 19.
A mail arrive I from Dublin tliie morning,
which brought letters and papers to the
15th iuflant. Their contents are uninter
elting.
The admiralty have received an account
of fir Horatio Nelson having failed from
Syracufeon the 26th of July.
Extract of a letter from captain B. Berry,
of his majelty's ship Vanguard.
" Vanguard, at sea, off Candia,
J»!y 9, 1798.
" We left the Rocks of Gibraltar on the
oih ot May, and arrived off Toulon on the
i/t" ; on the 20th took a brig from Smyr
na ; < n the fame right a moll tremendous
Itorm arose, in which we carvied away all
our topmafb, and late our foremaft, which
rendered u. a complete wreck ; on the 23d
we arrived at Sardinia, and refitted, and
went to Jen ajain in 4 days; on the 7th
•June were joined by ten failof the line and
aSO tmn ship; on the 17th we looked into
Bay. and eommuricatrd with fir W.
Hail ill on ; il 6 days from Sicily we ar
-1 -r,! at Alexandria ; they had htaid the
*■ ene-i were coming-, and were determined
rt 'P" them. The governor was deter
r "ii d lhr>uld they land, to begin by cut ing
' I* »h« head of their consul, and all that
in the French ivtered, and said lie
would lerve us the fame if w« attempted to
Wild any force ; he said this to the 'officer
» • * r. * " . '. _ v » , i
we fen; on shore. We are noivgt>7og Into
Syracuse to wood and water, &c. &c.
" Adfnira' Neifju and the fleet are all in .
good health."
On Tuesday arr|v>J at Yarmouth, his i
rr.ajefly's (hips the Kent, of 74 guns, ad
miral lord v'ifcount Duncan, captain Hope ; 1
Ganges, of 74 guns, coram idore M'Dow i
all ; Belliqneux, of 64 guns, capt. England j 1
Monmouth, of 64 guns, captain Deans; I
Diredtor, of 64 guns, captain B1 g'i ; Ve- I
terao of 64 guns. captain Moss ; America, '
0f64 ouns, captain Smith; and the Glatton, ]
of 54 guns, captain Cobb, from a cruize 1
off the Tt xel. c
Ihe Pri.;cefs of Wale?, a new fecr>nd 1
rate o r 98 is to be laid down in the 5
| kitg's d ickyard at Chatham-pu;,the fame <
flip frite whence the r emeraire of the fame 1
rate was launched on Tuesday fe'nnight.
The mod marked and Itudied civil/ ies ;
continue to pass between the Spanish admi- 1
ral and lord t Vince t. The letter from 1
captain Manly Dixon, giving an account 1
of his a£tio 1 with the Spanish frigates, a"d 1
his capture of La Dor thee, came through '
Spain, a"d wis sent -ff bv admiral Meffira- 1
do, by a fla,; of 'ruce, to the British admi- 1
ral. This isbein ■; civil indeed ! ;
By the exchange of prifoneri about to be ;
carried in'o f-fFett, this country will get back
about ifour thousand.
S-premier 10.
The le'te-s fjc: iv j l by 'ady Nelson from Sir
Horatio, were dated 011 the ip-h fulv fr mi Syra ]
cufe A'.miiiht naturally he eypeiled, th'gallant |
admiral cxpr*. sr *e H'e;«r!t regret a* not having
beeu a >le to fall in with tha French fleet Heatd< j
a confident hope howc-vef, that hi may yet have
, ..n opportunity of grappling with l'Orient, the 1
French : lniral's ship
[licence of '-rugs and Medicines imported
r.;m tl4: Levant, &c. have lately had a very c©u
fiierab'e rife of not less than 100 per cent, on ma
j ny f the ■ rticles. in par:icular camphite, opium,
! rh.uharb and cochineal.
COPY
Of a latter from capijio Dixon, or his Majesty's
(hip the I,ion, to admiral the earl ps St Vincent,
dated at Sea , the 17th July, 179?.
MV LOXD,
It i> with tire greatejl pleasure 1 have the honor
to inform yaur lordship, that yesterday morning (
ot g o'clock, Carthagena hearing N. 79, W. dif
tant 19 league; ( had the "good fortune to fall in
with a fquidron of Spasilh frigates, as per mir
gin*, and that after having brought them to c!of>
ailion, about a quarter poll eleven o'clock, which 1
lasted with great warmth till ten minutes past one,
P. VI. theeneny was totally defeated and put t<
flight, leaving the Dorothea to her fate, having
hoisted an Englilh ensign with the Union down
wards ; and as I considered her in the greatest dis
tress, I loft not a momept in taking pofTelHon
which was done in the face of the three remaining
frigates, dillant about two miles on my weather
i bow.
Ih detailing the particulars of the ahove affair,
I havs to inform your lordfliip,that at the moment
the frigates w re descried in the S. E. quarter, the
Lion was (leering East with a crowd of fail, the
wind moderate at W. 3. W. aha as I soon discover
ed by their signals and other n-anceuvres they were
j enemies, I immediately clcarel (hip for a&ion,
I which being effected in the Ihorteft time l ever re
colleit to have seen, I acquainted the officers and
j (hip's company with my intertion of immediately
j bringing he frigates to the closest aition polfihle;
| and observing the cheerfulness with which it wa»
j received, I dctetmn ed not to lafe a moment to
. nn 'i t .cV 1 a
fills and firll reefs of the topi'ails, in order to fe
curethe fighting of the lower battery, and hauled
up towards the frigates which were fte:ringfor
the Lion. Having ft cured '.Hk weather gauge, 1
bore down 011 the enemy, who was forming in a
close order of battle on th; larboard fide of bear
ing : the third frigate from the van had loft her
f ire-top mast. It imm<idia'ely occurred to tr e that
the crippled (hip was my objedl.in order tofecure
a general a&ian ; fupnofint* that a Spaniard (from
the nobleness rtf his character) would never with
f® funerier a force forOke a friend in diltrefs. In
this I fortmatelyfucceeded ; and ft-ering for and 1
c'oGng with the crippled ship, which was now b«-
come-the ilernmoil in rh line of battle tha other
three frigates tacked : n fucceffi m, and patted the
I.ion verygaTla.'itljr within mo'Ve.fhot S but asrheir
line after tacking washy no mears atlofe one, they I
each received a well directed broadiide from the
I.i n ; "he good effect of whioh was very vifi!)le
by their (landing a coaliderable time On that tack.
I still continued to steer lor the crippled Ihip, who
nearly failing as well as the Lion, galled h-r very 1
confi.'erably in the riyging Sy h«r stern chafes.
The three frigates made a second close
attempt, but not so close as the tormer, to
support her, and were each fully repaid by
an exchange of broa-dfides. " t length w'
clofr d with the crippled ship, and poured in v
a dtftruilive fire, the yard ariris being just 1
cltar of each other ; he nev. rtbfl fs did no' i
strike for feme time after. At this period I i
fonnd the Lion totally ungovernab'e, hav
ing all her braces, bowlings, clue garnets,
&c. shot away, the foreftil nearly rendered 1
ufclcfs, and the other fails much torn, 1
The three frigates a third time made a 1
distant and feeble effort to protect and cover 1
the ditlrefled frigate, b\it in vain ; they did
not dare to approach within th<* diflanse to
do so, and by gr«a! exertions being enabled
to wear round on the fame tack with the i
frigate that had now (truck her colouis, and ;
fubflituted the English Enfitrn in its place, 1
I closed with and took poffefiion of h.r a£
before related
During the remainder day we were
lying to, fully employed in repairing the
rigging, bending new canvas, and securing
the prize, in order to enable me, if poflihle,
to go in pursuit of the three frigates, which
were making off close by the Wind to the
N. W.
Now, my Lord, it is with the greatest
and molt heartfelt pleasure to me th?t this
service has bee# effected with the probable
loss of only one poor man, who has had his
thigh amputated, as likewise Mr Patey,
mldfhipman, (lightly wounded ill the shoul
der ; this youth did not quit his quarters '
in conftquence of tfie wound, and was from
tirfl to lalt, particularly adtive : But, my
* Pomona, of 42 guns and 350 men, Fe
lix O'Ntil, Commodore, Don Francis Vil
lamil, Captain.
Dorothea, of 42 guns and 370 men, Don
Manual Gerraro l aptain.
Caflida, of 42 guns and 3?D mm, Don
Deam Farrara, Captain. Proserpine, of
42 i;iihk and 350 men, Quaj. Bial, Captain. •
They all failed from Carthajjena the Blh
inli. en a Cruize.
*• 1 - * »
Lord, ther* have been fcverml miraculous 1
recoveries in the Lion, owing to the great 1
ability and humane attention of the Surgeon, c
Mr. Yountr, I therefore never defpzir of a f
man while-there is life. e
I have now the fatisfaClion of declaring c
to your Lord/hips, that nothing could ex- ]
csed the ccol and colledled bravery and de- r
termined refoltttion of every individual in f
the Lion. I have the Dorothea in tow, as c
(he has her mizen-tnaft and fore top-mast (
carried away, .and fails and rigging cut to c
pieces, hei rudder and main mast much da- r
maged, as well as on the account of the ne- I
cefTary attendance of the Swigcon to the re- I
lief of the wounded men on board, the Sur- 1
geon of the Dorothea being an inexperien
c.dm.iH, and without the necessary inftru- 1
ments. 1
I.can get, mv Lord, but,an imperfeft c
account of the killed on board the D rothea ; c
their complement su the commencement of 1
the aftion wa3 called three hundred and sis- c
ty, and now there are vi&ualled on board t
the Lion three hundred and fifty one ; many a
volunteers embarked on hoard at Carthage- I
na ; the Captain and" Officers suppose there
might be from twenty to forty killed in the
action, ana wounded now on buaid the Lion
are thirty-two.
I am &c. &c.
MANLEY DIXON.
> 1
September 22.
Orders are sent to Scotland for a supply of a
Urge quantity of csnnon, of very large calibre '
by conlent f government, for America,
W» understand that the French, previous to
their surrender at Ballynamuck; turned upon
the rebels and killed about 500 of them.
PLYMOUTH-DOCK, Sep. 10. 1
An expref? arrived at one o'clock this morn
ing, to vice-admiral fir Alan Garner, with in- 1
so mation of two fail of the line and nine sri ]
gates, with four thousand troop 9on board, hav j
ing fai'.ed from Brest supposed for Ireland : If
it lhould prove so, we may soon expeft to hear
a good account of them, at theßamilies, Tri
umph, Saturn of 74 guns each, the Kcpulfeand 1
Polyhemtis of 64 guns each and a number of
frigates are cruising off thatcoaft.
A fleet is in Cght to the eaftvrard, supposed
to be lord Bridport out of Torbay. Wind at N.
* bUBLIN, Sept. 15.
The French officers who have been taken ,
ptifomers, atk.iowkdge themselves much
disappointed in their enterprize in this
country, and severely exclaim against the
rebels, who joined tht m, whom they declare ]
to be the greatest ruffians and savages on
the face of the earth, and many ot whom j
they shot for robbing and deceiving them.
It appears that they cloathed about two
thousand of the infurgenti with a green uni» ]
form and gave them fire arms, numbers of i
whom ran away thus accoutred. 1
The French commander in chief appoint
ed a provisional municipality in Calllebar,
which was composed of the following per
lons :
" Citizen C. Baynes, mayor; citizens
Michael Sheridan, John Hufton, Boetius
Egan, P. P (parish priafl) James Hieth
cock, Redmond Lyons, Andrew Edmon-
Jnrrv* Gihlions, Clark, aad
John Burke, muuicipal officers.''
An adtion has taken place at Caftlebar,
between the yeomanry and a band of rebels
who attacked the town ; the latter was cut
to pieces.
From the London Star, of September I.
On Saturday we laid before our readers
the accounts brought by the Hamburgh
mail, of a defeat said to have been experien
ced by Buonaparte near Cairo. We have
now to state intelligence of a very different
nature, which was received in the course of
that day at the India House, and which we
think much better entitled to credit.
Mr. Tooke, the Company's rcfident at
Constantinople, in a letter to the direftorj,
dated the 10th ulf which wa< f rwarded
by a special mefTenger, informs them that
Buonaparte had not only made himfelf ma
ster of Alexandria, but of Rofetta, Damietta
and Grand Cairo, tho not without conside
rable loss, havingbeenharrafTed by the Arabs
and Mamelucks, whom, however he had
dispersed with great (laughter. The intel-
ce is given Mr. Tookcon the authori
ty of letters from Aleppo, dated the 28th of
July.
It is extremely probable that the sub
stance of this intelligence is true, though
there are difficulties to its receiving full ere- 1
dit. Rofetta is only between 40 and 50 1
•T.iles diftanr from Alexandria which he 1
might reach in a little time, without very '
i>reat labor j but from thence to Damietta
he cculd not poflibly march at the season ; '
for the Nile begins to. overflow its banks
about the end of May, and all the low lands
continue inundat d till the to.th or 20th of '
August—sometimes even to the end of Sep- '
tember. Through such a country no arrr.y '
could march a diltance of about 100 miles,
even if yve suppose the waters to have fub
lided earlier than usual; for the ground al
ways continues foft and muddy for some f
time after. i
To Cairo the the French might proceed i
«?ire£t from Ruf tra without such an impe- 1
diment, but the diilance is about 150 miles, 1
and could not but expose them to consider- i
able danger, if by any means the enervated
and e: fl<ived inhabitants may have been
routed into aft ion ; which may poflibly have
been the cafe if the Fi-mun said to have
been ifTued by the Porte, addrefTed to the
Bashaws and Bey« of Egypt, and which 1
wa-i brought over by the Hamburgh mail, )
may be coofidcitd as genuine. It directs 1
them to throw every possible cbftruftion in i
the way of the infidels, who were invading t
the country with a view of overturning its
religion, and endeavours to rouse them to i
adopt the molt vigorous measures, so that (
the «nemy may not, be permitted lo carry t
even a fraii tj'fand out of the Sultan's do- 1
miuio V/ ,
Bui it is possible Buonaparte may have <
gone from Rofetta to Damietta by sea, <
> having prcvioufly ordered bis fleet from J
! Al-xairdria to the former, while lie pro '
, ceeded there by laod : or having left 9 fuf- v
i ficient garrison in Alexandria lie may have d
even gon£ to RsCetta by fca—taker, and ti
; (jarrifoned it, and then again embarked for
■ Damictta. This appears the wisest and t
• most rational plan that could be followed ; i
i for admiral Nelson having left Buanapar'e 3
i complete matter of the eastern extremity of y
1 jhe Mediterranean, there was nothing to >
i oppose his progress by fca. Beiog once ar- i
• rived at Damietta, he could go up the a
large eastern branch of the Nile to Cairo, in c
- boats, the common paflage being only a- e
bout fix or seven days. -
In which ever way we ftt'- pnfe him to 2
have reached Cairo, h:» progtefe must have <■
b-en rapid irideed ; for he reached Alexan- t
dria on the 7th or Bth of July, and the ac- '
; counts of his arrival at Cairo are stated to 1
have arrived at Aleppo on or before the 28th <■
of the fame month ; that is within 20 days, '
1 though so much was to be d»ne in the time. '
and the news to travel upwards of 270
• leagues.
I
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 15.
"*G3gfgjgg!Bsaß~-
We are favored with the following extruH if a ,
letter from Samuel Williams, esq. Agent for ,
, American claims, to Samuel Bayard, date*, ,
l " LONDON, July lg, .'798. I
" Sines your departure, thf Lords hive i
. business as they ought to have done it long be- I
fore. They have restored, in about sixty fix 1
cases, ordered further proof in twenty, and as- .
firmed the cnndemnatiori of fourteen. Their
present feflion will end next week —to meet
again in November. Forty cases are set down
ps rthat term."
The accounts from Mr,
1 diftrift leave little doubt of his eletiion to
f the, next Congress.
Major Joseph Egglestom of Amelia
county, (Vir.) succeeds William B. Giles,
Esq. who has rcfig ed his feat in the et:fu
ing Congress. He was ele&ed by a majority
1 of more than two to one over Alexander
1 Jones, Esq. He is an anii.
i
The keel of ihe Merchants' frigate was
: laid last week, on the flip whence the United
1 States wa3 launched, and the workmen be
-1 gin to raise the ribs on Saturday next.
> From indubitable authority we learn, and
» have to announce to the public, that dur
f ing the two cruises which the frigate Unit
ed States has made, one through the Weft
• India iflandi at an unhealthy season of the
, year, with a crew confiding of near 400
- men, not a man has died by disease "; and
ths crew, at present, enjoy very good
s health. This does great credit to the me
s tlical department on board.
Doctor Logan,
1 Of whom it 13 impossible to &y whether bis
stupidity or his impudence preponderates,
, yeftterday had the unpardonable effrontery to
s wait upon General Washington. Upon his
t introduction he offered his polluted hand lo
the General, who declined returning his fra
ternal salutation. The following dialogue
then pa(Ted.
Logan.—l have the honor to bear from
Paris, the refpefts of your old friend, La
Fayette.
Gen. —Aye!
l.ogan. I have the honor, also, to bear
the compliments of Gen. K»fciufko.
Gen.—Aye !
Logan.—l have the honor, also, to bear
the compliments of Geo. —— (his name
not now remembere .)
Gen —Aye ! *
After n pause of confufion, the Cats-pans
of Mammoth, (mentioning the pcffible
danger of tefiding in this city, from the late
prevtlence of a contagious disorder) then
offered the General a residence at Stenton.
the theatre of his frequent interviews with
Jefferfoni The General, in a mingled tone
of indignation and contempt, replied, that
he was under no apprehenfiqn of danger
f and the impertinent intruder departed.
The following directions fer altering Are
, places upon count Rumfoid's plan, may be
of use to those who have not seen his publi
cati n, and are desirous of saving furl, and
miking their apartments comfortable.
The front of the fire place mull be 39 inch
es wide.
The back do. 13 do. and carried up perpen
dicular 42 inches or 6 do. above the bot
tom of the mantle. '
The depth do- 13 do.
The height do. 36 do.
1 he throat of the chimney 4 do.
The mantle or breafl-wotk ought to be 9
inches thick at the throat, if it cannct con
veniently he made so, the back must be car-
J rred up 18 inches, and then gradually bro't
; forward until the throat of the chimney is
1 i reduced to 4 inches above } the back must
- ! be flat on the top, an opening jto be closed
, 1 with a stone or some loose brick may be left
- jof a fufficient fixe for a sweep-chimney to
I enter. Phil. Ga%.
1
; From Porcupine's Gazette.
: MR. COBBET,
As your ingenious oomfpondeeis have 1
1 not agreed concerning the clofr of the pre
> sent " enlightCHrd" century, if you think
i my ideas refpefting it worthy of a place in
1 your paper, you will oblige me by ii.ferkirg .
; ihem.
i I am of opinion, that at twelve o'clock
' in the night fucceedifig the prtfent day
(Nov. 13' 1798 years io months and 13
days of the chriltian xra will then have e
lap ed, and that on ihe 31ft of December
next, at midnight, which wii!complete that ,
day, 1799 years w'll then have clapfcd ; c
consequently, on the 31ft of Dssemb-r,
t
e i
1 799> raidni'ht, fßoo years will tfcri
have J)*(kit, and the next moment r.ftcrwarili
which will be ibe firll minute o£ the firft
day of Janifßry," tßoo, wij[ also -bo the firt
minute of the nineteenth century.
It this be nt the cafe, mltead of datmg
the prefcut year, 1793, we fliould call it the
1798 th year of < tif Lord; and the*, the
31 'i of December next, will complete 1798
years, a'd the 31 It of December iß®o com*
;,'lete the 18th Century—for exanjple,'"l am
18 years a'<d fom« m .nibs old. If I an»
afktd my age, I either reply. I am 18 years
old, or, I am in the 19th year ef my age )
eighty years htnee, if I live so lung, I (hall
be 98 years old, and in the 99th year of my?
age—one year afterwards I Ihallb 99 yea"'<
old, and in my huadreth 'year, conf.-qiierirtly
the dole of the year in which I I date 99
will be the close of my firll century, and if
I fllould live 1700 years longer, the wise
acres of those days will perhaps puzzle their
brains to determine what year doles the 181b
Century of the life of your humble fervaut,
S.
P. S. It is asked. to what year did (he
fir > twelve months of the Chriliian era be
long ? I will answer that qufftion by ano
ther,—To what haur do the firll 60 minutes
afternoffn belong ?
From a Dublin Paptr.
CORK 4SSIZES.
On the sth iuftaKt, Thomas VJaker, of tie
c:ty iif Cork, an opulent (bnpteeper aad uiMi
( can, was trii-d b fore .Mr Serjeant Stanley, sots
endeavoring t»» feducc oiie i l.oinas t'oyle, a
soldier in the Nor'h Mayo regiment o£ nn ,
from his d ity and alleieance, t>y advifmg hun
to jo n the focisty of United Irilhujen, ami /
admijiiftering afi oath to Bnv!e, never to drnw.
a trig i;er 0' ramrod ag.an/1 the French, or agaiijt
tie UpHrd Irijbmtn. [t appeared ihatih. pii
foner hid long been in the habit of seducing
and corrupting the army, an<l frequently in- it
ed foidu rs to his house for that pnrpofe. B«yle
at firlt refilled to he sworn, and acquainted co
lonel Jicki.in and the officers of the attempts
t made on him by the prisoner ; they advised I.lc
lohlier to go to the prisoner, an 1 take anyoath«
Asfoon asthefoldirr kad taken the oath, he
informed his officers of it, and the prili>n:r wa»
1 apprehended, anil after a lorg tru,, conviiled
, upon the cleared evidence In the courts 0. , <ie
trial, it appeared that hefolici'ed the soldiers to
, join in murdering the co onel and the other offi
. cers of the regiment, on their return from din
ner at fir James Stewart's.
The priloner received fentenceof d«ath, and
was ordered for execution on Saturday,
i Jeremiah Ffhane and James Fehane were
| capitally c«nvi6ed, and received f-ntence <sf
. death, for joining a party of United lri'dimen,
and attacking the houl'e of Wm. Morris, efq,
their landlord, and firing a blunderbuss at him,
, by which he was severely wounded. -
Ber.jamin Dienan, \Vm. Garde, fcficliacl
Garde, John Boland and Wra. Kearney, wera
- capitally conviifled of oonfpiracies to murder,
- and were executed pursuant to their sentence,
e
;> DONATIONS
'• Received far the use of the Poor, (lately) at
the Encampment at Majlci Place.
1 ith month, 14th.
15 81bs. lalt pork, 3 cheeses 2 buftiels peas,
iOolb"s. flou j a balket of eergs, and five
< dollars, from Meflrs. John Cox, Joseph
3 Burr, and Charles French, collected in
'» the neighbourhood of Cropwell meetitigf
0 house, New Jersey.
s 100 pair new fhoea, from Elias Coudinot,
0 Eiq.
' Jno. Injleep, ~j
e Jfona. Robefoti, J- Committee.
Isaac IV. Morris, J
* £oaritte JLiftr
r The ftip reported b€!ow prsves to be the Ne
w of New-York, fro'ii Londonderry, long
paflage.
r The f&h Adventure, ckinfon, from hencer
. to Hamburg, arrived in the Downs the latter,
end of Augnfl in 28 days On her pafiage be
ing chafed by a French privateer, all the letters
for England were thrown overboard ; those for
' Hamburg saved : after being >4 hours in the
: pofiefiioH of the privateer, lhe was liberated;
j Arriird at the Fort
, Brig Augustus, Smith, frcm St Jago de Cuba-
Portland, AW. y.
1 Arrived brig Joseph, Robert llilcy master, $%-
- days from Martmico* Sailed under convtiy of
t the Bneron fl»op of- war, in company wi;h the
- following velfcls :—Brig Horatio, Whitney,
Conneilicut j b'rigi BetPey, Giiflin, and Ceres*
Da get, Botlon ; brig Sarah, V. hitehnufe,
. Newburyport ; brig Pa'las. Merrill, Keng;'
bunk ; (hip Adolph, H (tgden, Baltimore ;
" fch fatty, Gr«en. Salem j Ich Sfanwood,Cape
■ Ann ; aud many others, names anknown
1 Sch Jnduitry, Appletan, of Botlon, drove out
io a gale of wind, and srr ved at Grena la,with "
. a number more, some of which had not been
heard of. Let there ship John, of I'hilade'phij
cargo condemned : fch Eagle, Copperthrite,
veffcl arid cargo cleared. Ofl aj, lat 35,
long 67, spoke capt Whitehoufe, who told hin*.
that the (hip that then was in company, was the
Columbia, of Newburyport, from Virginia,
biiund to Ireland j that (he was in drftrels, hav
ing sprung a-leak a few days before, in a gale of
. wind Capt W had agreed to keep her com
pany until file made some port on the continent
"1 to refit.
A r rw- York, Nov. 14.
1 ARRIVED. DAY %
s • Ship Adventure, Berry, Greenock 47
t' Brig Hunter, Parker, Jamaita 43
1 ! Sloop PreGdent, Bracket, Boston
t i_~—~— 1. , . -
, NOTICE.
ALL Perfotis indebted to the Estate of DoSor
Francis Bcwis Sayxz, deceased, are re
quefttd to make imm.ilia;e pajrti nt —and thofs
having deirandsagainft the fail! 10 te, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, duly au'hent cared, to
Ann Sayre, Administratrix.
Robert Heyfham, Administrator.
November 15 divr
Dobbin & Roberts,
T AT LO RS,
RESPPCTFULLY ii farra thcirOullomers, anil
tjie Ftibiic in geptr d, that they have remo
ved from No. TI4, Chefriuc Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street;
Where orders in-their line will be thankfully re
ceived ar.d diligently i t»,
r ♦▼ember 15U ' |
FOR SALE, I
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the Jbip Lout/a,
Captain Champlin from St. Peterfcurg,
CONSISTINO O*
HEMP aad BAR IRON.
In the Jhip Dispatch,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And tht remainder of Jhip Rich
tnond's CARQO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Cqarfe and fine Mufiinx,
and an elegant aflortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordccai Lewis.
Philadelphia, nov.'? d3W
imported in Jhips William Peijfi, A- ,
miahle and Jean,from London,
A quantity as Cannon,lizes 4,6 & 9 lb. with balls
Ca»ronades, u lbs. J fuiuble.
Mufquets, Mufquetoens,CudalTes andT &
Pitlols, r or (hips use, -
Rifled batrcledGuns, Fowling Pieces, , §
and Horfeman'J WPols, •fT'u ]
40c ,000 Flints, chiefly for muflcets, in S*
kegs. J w
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab-
Vards,ln cases es s*> sach, i
Light Cavalry Swords in Cafe*
fibres, Swords and CutfafiVs, \+ith plated movntißg
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general af
£ortm .-»rt—For Sale by
Thomas isf Jno. Keiland,
Philad. OSoher 15. si
JAMES & RLCHARD SMITH,
T T AVE this c!ay returned from tha country to c
XjL their STORE, No. 54, South Front-street,
where they hrve for fa!e, as uinal, a large and ge- c
%eral afTortuirnt of European and Eaft-'lsdia S
DRY GOODS; p
»o(l of wliirh have now arrived and are landing,
from the different velTels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cnllomers by applying will find almost
every artiele generally imported, and at as ®
prices for caih or credit, »s they can be had else- c
i»here. G
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOTS, a T
eonfignment, tD be fold by the cafe only.
Pbi'adHrhia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf L
Library Company of Philadelphia e
THE MEMBERS
OF THi
Library Company of Philadelphia -
are hereby informed
THAT the library will be opened en ThurfJay
next, the IJ.th instant, for the reception and
delivery "of books. Those who neglect teieturn T"
the books, which had been borrowed previous to f
fche twentieth of August last, on or before the fir (I f c
of December next, Willie fined as the" RulesdireO.
The I.oganian Library ~
Will also be opened it the fame ti!ne, for the lifce
puapnfvs.
N. Catalogues of the bo,ok* belonging to
these IrißltUtfon; may be hail at the Library.
z. pouLSOM, jNlir. Libra rain, I
l.thraffr nov to
Jokn Millkh, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING J*OM NO. 8, CHESNUT, an
T* the Five Story Bu Iding, itt Dock
near Third-street. dil
Where he hag for Sale _
250 Bales of Bengal Goods j
CONItSTINC at
Coflae*
Bafta*'
Mamoodiet
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, tsfe. &e. q
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS, ™
Ctnjifting »f Woolens tnly, S w
AMONGST thim «aa, Ol
Cloths J U ,
Coatings A
Blankets
Kendal Cotton*
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
roo Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fiee flavor, 3d Cs* 4th proof.
n-v to
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RECEIVED AW INVOICE OF
Choice Cheshire Gloucester
CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.] T
100 of Window Glass, 1
Of various sizes, per the Jan e, from London. r ; t
They have also for Sale, ret
aoo Calks of Refined Salt-Petre, ra<
AND A QUANTITY OF N<
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. (if Samuel W. Fi/her. JLii
November l dtf iac
JAMAICA .RUM, ~~
Cargo now linding at SouthJlnet wharf,
FOR SALE BY p h
PETER BLJGHT,
Apply at Store* on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR (All, pw
BRANDY, 111 and 4th proof
\l.ulciraand Port WINES, &c. Sec.
Nov. I. dtf
ROBERT SMITH iff Co.
Have returned to the City, and are now open
ittg at their Store, No 58, St. Front-flrect,
A large and General * *-
ASSORTMENT OF GOODS, V.
Suitable to the Season, 'fie
Which they have just received per the late ' UI
arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool and
Clafgow (via New-York) and will dispose ' Ol
Of on very low terms for Cash or (hort credit.
TO BE LEI,
A House in Fourth-street, next door to
to die Indian Queen —enquire as above. t
novemhrr 6 Sl4t V
LAMPBLACK. h m c ;
A quantity of Lampblack was left during the
Fever, at the Office of the Gazette of the Unit- fel
ed States, —supposed through mistake. The ~i!i
owner is rcqueiicd tocall and take it away.
Jtfov, 3. }
(DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT !
, BE IT REMEMBERED,
r , THAT on the twelfth day
v ® / of August, in the twenty-third year of
| A the Independence of the United States ol
America, Benjamin Smith Barton,of the said dif
triel, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims •" nutljpr in the
>' word* following to wit :
" NtjW Views ps the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nation* of America—By *«njamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. t). Correspondent Member of tho Socie
" ty sis the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member »l
" the American Philofophicaf f9cu.ty, Fellow ol
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences ol
" Boilon, Correfpondidg Member of the Maffa
" Htftorical Society, and ProfefTor ol
" Materia Medica, Natural Hiflory and Botany
}n the Univerflty of Pennsylvania."
tn conformity to the ail of the Congress of tht
h- United State., intitled "An ail for th* encourage
ment of learning by fecuriog tl>e copies of maps
charts, aad Hooks, to the authors and proprietor
of such copies daring the times therein mentioned.'!
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dift. of Penn'
November », 1795.
LANDING,
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape
~T Nichala Mole.
»3 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers "1 M
18 Do. Gait en 1 ajp"
jll, 1 Do. Ruge 1 00 „ fT
I Do. Havre Sacks \ u "
* Do. Flannel Trowfers
* Da. rents, J 3
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chelapeake, Captain Webb, from
Liverpool,
b . 147 Grates of Queen's Ware,
Afiorted particularly toluit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas fs* John Ketland.
November 7 j
Just Imported, r "
fron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
~ with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
> pounders.
0 Carronades, Woolwiah proof, with carriage*, &c.
:t > complete—n, 18 asd 24 pounders.
6 " Cannon powder in keg* of is lbs. each
Round, double-headed,and cannifter (hot
Patent fhcathijig copper, bright, affortcd 18, to,
- iiy 24, *6 ami 28 or per square foot, gleets 48
by 14 iqehes, suitable for vaflels from 10a to
1000 tans
Copper nails, boh* and spikes
„ Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlafTes
Gunners (lores ef all kinds
a Tin-plates No I—l-3 crof* boxes
Patent (hot in caflcs of jewt. each
London porter and brown fteut, in calks ef 7 doz.
bottled.
1 Earthen ware in crates, aflerted
For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street.
j Oflobyt eo.tf.
R. TA*LOR,
y MUSIC PROFESSOR,
1 *O. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
a p ESPECTFULLY informs the Public that
° IV lie continues to teach Ladies tht Piano
1 Forte V usual.
' floy. 6. tuthu
e French Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, Sovth Second Street,
will or IN
. His DAY and EVENING, SCHOOL,
On Wcdnefday, the 14th jnft.
N. B.—Private Tuition attended to a* usual,
and Translations froru either Language Into the
other, performed with accuracy, Fecrecy, and
dispatch. |
gov. 10 ewtf
Just Arrived,
In the Brig-Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimtlone.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING or
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
ElTences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writin? paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qnrlity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
VofTcl
To Ovmers of Carriages, and
Retailers of Wine W Spirits.
IN conl'equence of the late Epidemic in this
City, numbers have negledled to enter their
Carriages, also the retails* of Wine and Spi
• riti to call and take out their Licences. The
J returning health of the City, the Office is re
( moved from Germantnvpn to its former place,
No. 49 North Third-street, where those who
have negleiled mult call and pay the duty on
their Carriages, and those retailers take out theii
• Licences—Their ready compliance will prevent
iacurring the penalty of the Law.
JAMES ASH, Collector
of the \JI Survey of the Ift
1 Dtvijfon of Penqfyl'vania.
Philadelphia, Office of Infpddlisn )
No. 44, North Third-street. i
0- The STAMP-PRESS is kept at this
Office.
nov 9 mwfef;w
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
At the Store No. 22 Chefnut-ftreeL
Begs leave to inform hit friends &cujlomers that
be has removed hit goods from Chef«ilt-H»ll,
~. HVL reaJ yJ" oecom«t*date thetn with,
COARSE and Ifae white, red & green Baizes
in half pieces—Coarse and fine white Flan-
Hells from a/ 3< /, to. 6/ a yard. He experts a
. further fupplyby the firft arrivals from Scotland,
[ Ireland and Ejtg}anJ,'*.nA is determiaed to fell
. low for Calh or a (hort credit.
noy 1 jawtf
1 Cook Wanted.
ANTED,by a small regultr family, a wo-
VV man cook, who is a thorough mistress of
her business and caa prod«« fatisfaftory rccom.
mendation. Any perfen answering the above
description, will meet with cenftaut empley ,„d
pencrou. wag«s. Application to be made at the
olnce of this gazette.
To save trouble, no lri(h woman aeed applv
nor. * Y I
1 Bank of Pcnn/yhauia,
September 3d, 1798.
l y -\T7-HERBAS the Houle at present
of W by the Bank of Pennsylvania was enter
ed on the night of the firft instant, by some vu
! lains» who robbed the institution of lundry
, a Bank Notes, amongfl which were the follow
e ing post notes of the Bank of New-York, v«.
. No 100 a, dated 13d of August, 1798, Dolls
issued in favor of Seafaring &
Van Wyck, for 396 »»
a s No ICX33, dated 25th of August, i79®»
0 f ilfied in favor of Montgom
of cry and Newbold fcrr l»iO
fa- No 1006, »7th do. do. do. loco
of 1005, ' • do. do. do. do. »000
ny ioc?, SO. do. do. do. 1000
1009, do. do. do. do. aooo
he iojo, aßth do. do. do. *OOO
joii, do. do. do. do. »000
ps, iota, 30th d». do. do. ijoo
or i lotj, ilo. do. do. do. 1000
!•'* Also sundry post notes of the Bank of Penn
m fylvania, dated 23d July 1797, iflued in favcr
of George Hughes, for one thousand dollars
each, and sundry post notes of faiil Bank, da
■ ted 15th of July, <797, iflaed in favor of Geo.
' Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in
dorfedby him. The jnjblic are hereby caption
ed against receiving the said no:es> and a re
«> ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
g. hereby offered for the discovery and conv'nflion
m of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
a ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
3 offered by the Governor of the UomiQonwealAi
7 in his Proclamation of this day.
By order of the Board,
m JONATHAN SMITH, cafliier.
This Day Publiflxd, \
And for late at the OlSce of the Editor, No.
is 119 Ch«fnut-ftreet, 1
f Price i-ith of a Dollar,J ;
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
f> verfary of American Independence.
9 By Josiah <jj'vtnct.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call j
c- for reparation—The wrongs we havefultainsd, (
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that j
Julliee, may yet he obtained, by Union, Spirit, t
5 and Firmneu. But to divide and conquer was 1
fj the maxim of tfie Devil in the girden of Eden,
0 and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to the
present."
Observat'nns on the Boston Port-Bill, itfc.p. 78
by the late J. putney, jun.
august II
This Day is Published,
AN ADDRESS jj
To the People of Maryland*
ON the origin, progress and present state of e
French aggreiCon, with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
- States, and fotne reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen
tativ**' $ faneilt
0 Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
and Carradarries, <-
•f tho newest and most anprovud patterns,entitled
to-the drawback, just received, d
ANB FOR SALE BT tl
Alex. J. Miller (jf Co. r
No. 64, South Front street. ''
may t?. 4 c
_ 1 $
FOR SALE, o
The Cargo of the JSchr. Sincerity
g Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Lagjuira, p
] CONSISTING OF
94 t Fenegas of Cocoa
4005 lb. of Flora Indigo
310 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
t By Witlings & Francis.
. , No. Eleventh.llrent.
dtf
Last Notice to the Creditors 7 and
Debtors of John Shields.
THE firft are requested to render their Ac
counts against him, made up to the 13d
day of August, 1797, the date of his Affign
menty that a Dividend may be promptly made.
The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, before the firft day of Decembar ensuing
Any that remain unsettled after that period, will
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law
for recovery.
DAVID M; SHIELDS, Fl
Attorney, (it) ; fa&) to the
aijii Trustees of »
J. Shields.
Chefnut-ftreet, No, 22.
November 1, 1798. °'
Mails for South-Carolina & Georgia, n '
" P A o ?, ETS J^, now pr °vid«d forcarryjmfthe h,
, P ubl 'c by water b«ween Philadelphia w
and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia d<
on Friday s. Th« post by land will U e conti'nu
ed twice a week until an exper.ment is TOa de in
regard to the expedition and regularity of the r
packets. It any person chufes to have their [
letters sent by laod only, they will please to
write the word Land upon the letters : other- re
(W4 Vbe sen t by that conveyance which »
S-2e ifWrthe ''"er" are" left in the J
Joseph Haberjh am,
p ,. } .... . Pofl-Majler Gcmsrl.
Philadelphia, August 13,1798. q
JOHN SHIELDS, 01
broker,
Embraces this opportunity to present his thanJks '
: to his fellows-citizens for their fafl favors
"ri Zmi tm , tbat he "ret uris from r»
Chcfnut-HUI, to his former residence, the H
1 House ho. tt Chefnut between Front u
and Secend-ftreet.
HERE he holds himfelf readv to execute n° P
, tbenr commands in e»»rv branch of his v,
profeffion, trufhng that from a residence in this
c.ty of 3J years he has it in his power to render """
them tffcatial ferviee, assuring them th-,t t, [ a
coromiflion (hall be as lew as any in Town w"
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Vessels, Certificates u.
of every dcfcrtption and Bills nf f v , k,
bought and fold, the docketts carefully exam- '*
med and clear titles made ni-,on .1. n. n
«»=, sv.l. P ubii«'. - j
it fh™° d ' '" e ° , '" bk 1,1
>t a low premium.
November 7 „
—* 3»»tf
REMOVAL. fit
Counting Houre, No. ai , p enn Street ma irv
November, & J °
"j The Subscribers
Art now Landing—For Safe,
d St. Croix Rum—Muscovado Sugar
Red Port Wine,
In pipes, hogfheada and quarter Cades.
y Two thousand bushels of Silt,
Eighteen Iron Six pounders' proved at Woolwich.
Philips, Cramend, Co.
November 3 dtot—t
* Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment 6f Men mder my torn
wand, at Camp Wejl Sthuylhill, vi 2.
Odober S9.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, s
.feet 6 inches in dark hair and
complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, (peaks
broken Englifli and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, 17 years of
1* age, 5 feet 7 \ inches in height, grey eyes, dark
r hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
s Dublin, by trade a Hosier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
>. high, grey eyes, fandyhair, frelh complexion,
born in New-England, Hate of Conne<slicut, a
- repeated deserter, by trade a Rlackfrnith.
November 7. William Collins, 30 yea is of
s age, j feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, irefli com
a plexion, grey eye?, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
d some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
h to hear himfelf Sing.
< All the above deserters are very tmjch addict
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
" on their backs, had on, when they went away,
their regimental clothing. Whofotver appre- I
hends said deserters, (hall receive fortydoltars 1
reward, or ten dollars for each, witli all reason
able expences, by applying to me as above, 1
EDWARD MILLER, captain
2d regiment of Infantry commanding.
f nov 10 6
t ,
Notice is hereby gfven, I
THAT application will be made to the Treafn
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the '
following Certificates os-Six Per Cent Funded !
' Stock, Handing in the name of Join Carhmclt, of 1
London, the said Certificates having ) e;n 101 l on
1 board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
1 Falmouth to New-York.
No. 3072 1 Cert, for zooo dolls.
2964 1 do. 5000 V
-10»5.77 1 3000 J
Willtngs ssf Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. co6w j
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to t}ic treasury
of the Wnited States for the renewal of the follow- .
wg certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, stand- ,
in the name of Gabrielle Rigoud, of Geneva,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack- •
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth toNew-Yoik.
Soils. ]
No.3l9,s. Reg.office 19thMay *9j, 1 cert, for 1000
13,181. do. 14th do. do. J 4°. for 3500
■ IVtiling j & Francis.
o<9oljer 34. eod6w. ■,
DUTY on CARRIAGES. j
Notice is hereby given, *
That agreeably to an aA of Congress of the t
United States of America, passed at Phi la- t
delphia the 28th day of May, 1796, laying du- fc
ties on carriages for the conveyance of perfsns, and i
repealing the fomer a&s for that purpose—That t
there ihall be levied, collp&ed and paid, upon all »
carriages for the conveyauce of pccfoßs, which
ihallbe kept by -or for any person, for his or her
.: own i;fe. o Iff hire* or »i. -- ~ *~ —
ing of paflcngers, the fcvoral duties and rates f*l- ii
lowing, viz. dolts. '
For apd upon every eoach IJ !
upon every chariot ja r J
uppn every post chariot i»
upon every poll chaise 1% -1
uponeveryph«ton, with or without top 9 J
•upon every coachee 9 d
upon other carriages, having pairael <1
work above, with blinds, glasses, ( 9 «
or curtains } ~
upon four-wheel carriages, mrviiig") j\
frame posts and tops, (with flee] C 6 si
fp rings 3 c
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ■> fj
wooden or iron springs on,jacks j 3 f,
ujjon curricles with tops 3 r
upon chailes with top* j j,
upon chairs with tops , «
upon sulkies with tep» 3 • ft
upon, other two wheel top carriages 3! j
wpon two Wheel carriages with l\eel> i q
or iron springs ( 3 J
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 9' a ,
upon every four wheeled aarriage,") J
v having framed posts and tops, v. % h
and resting upon wot>dfn spars j
The Collector of the revenuo of the fivfl division ~
of the firft survey of the diftriift of Pennsylvania, tt
w,ll attend da,ly until the jptkdsy of September ft
next, lor the purpose of receiving the duties oft d
carriages, at Germsntown, on the Main street, a
httle above the fijr, of the King of Prussia, of £
which all persons poffefed of such carriages are „•
defined to take notite. Jr
Notice is also given, so
To aU retail dealers in wines and foreign diftilied
liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carry ing on the bpfinefs of St
retailing of win. sin a lei's quantity, or in less ' u
tiantities, than 30 gallon.—and one lieenre for 1*
arrying 00 the business of retailing spirituous li- :
quors in less quaatities thaß twenty gallons, at the
lame time and at the fame place, by
JAMES ASH, , _
Colleitor of the ift division of the ift
ns f I S " rv lr of the diftria of Pennsylvania.
Office of hifpe&iou at Germantown, 7 >-
»ad Augufi, 1798, j-
, Ev "X denomination of Stamps to be had r
liiu office.
m
Patent Plough^
ea ® > Joseph Salter at Atfion
-1- Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan W
TW K U T~ lnd Jcfl " e Evans > L"«ber- "
ton Thnfe who have used them give them the E
preference to any other kind, as they require £
j b / e,fc the ground better, are kept jn Z
»rd er at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
ra e the plan is much fimplified ynl coafiftsof
but one piece of cast iron, with the handle, and
bea* wood they may jbefixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be pat on with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights for vending with inflrvAions for ~
making them may be had by applying to John
Wftreet" N °' 111 North I
Who has for Sale;
Gr to Lease for a term of 7ears, u'
A number ot valuable trafts of Land, well ,„
situated for MiH S| , ron rksor Fjrms mnQ
y improved, lying chiffly in the county of H*n- fj
ir!rf „ at« of Pennsylvania. Those who ma. 11
mcl.ne to v. ew tben. will please to a rp l v wd.
John Cananeftj. near Huntingdon. PX a,
. . Claries NccAald.
J U, >' " »awtf
I •
195 calks of nails assorted »
10 bil « ef fa''l canvaft, [ rom Nn
J 3 calks yellow ochre No 'Itog
tj tierces bottled porter. <1 to , j
i London particular) 4 d«z. e«<ki
India market 5 Madeira Winei
in ho ß"ieads and pin
Old Port do. m hhds. W
Empty Glared bptfles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimit!,, s* ..
alTorted for the Weft-India Wt ' 4c "
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand m , r
Writing Hates, ink fends and prt ff'' C#rda fc
so puncheons Jamaica rum '
5 1 kale learning twine
J * 6 ° Indies fhcatiiing paper
; ,pri. I <*' G*
f . Sixty DoKnrf^ 1
' M ADE thcir I
f IVI rough of Lancaster, on R,, n 2 111 tKtbo "
Jk&, ftatween the hours «f « ,-j , T **enintj
» prisoners, part tf £ «ew'.f
' The one named £it nnt AJli„ ,
deaux in France, 26 years oi a«
f inches high, dark eyes and bv
a carpenter, supposed to be unacou.inf 'a L ! C
1 pr ° «ms&
The other named Pct„ Dvb,\ tUK , j
• Bujoin in France, 20 years of a»e
- inches h.gh grey eyes. dark complexion ? f-™,!
r by occupation, a dirtyill-l 6 o), Ng f s ow * ~
, wh«r he went away, a blue failbr's j^ke,
; an ' 6ld
Also, made his escape the fame dav . ■
O Clock ,n the morning, from the famigaol a"«
hiVh of Tl HUJI '"' abmt J«5
high, of a fmihng countenance, lately convieM If
a ieiony in this county. Had on when h ... .
away, a loog blue coat, a patr «r white trows «
both ragged, and a black hat. '
. Twenty- five dollars will be paid for apprehead
, mg and lecunng in any goal, each or either of the
! reßchnKn '
i-orty Dollars "Reward^
lOR APPREBeNDINO
A GENTLEMAN NEGRO,
T>Yn»me Gsorgi or G.orgx Park.*,'the
-U property of the fubferiber, who ha. thoueit
proper on the n.ght of the 21ft i,,{l. (0 elope from
his mailer without any provocation or jufl eaufe 1
he was formerly the property of Beikwith Butler,
clq. ana lived a conliderable time with —_
l*attenger,\vhokepttaVern in Fredirickb»r» h lv in E
seen ■ much company and travelled with feiertt
gemlemen through different parts cf this date he
isjnnch knowq; It is therefore he
will pulh for fame of the northern cities or town*
as heha,s difcoveredavi avcrlion toplantayonwork,
though he may perhaps hare croffej the rid re
" c , has •''"other belonging to major Bu icr.
i hu follow is about five fit (even inch s high,
well proportioned and walks a&rve and brilk, hit
countenance it open and agreeable enough w'he«
g° od humour; he can hardly be furpaft ia
mrewdnefs, and is a very capable waiting-man,
houfc iervant, barber, &c To dtferibe his drefj"
would be useless, as he possessed a variety of clothts,
thrujjh when drefled lately, he wore a green root
bound with white ferreting and fpotttd jacket and
j breeihes. Whoever brings bim home or secures
in goal in this or any other fhte.th- said flive, Co
that 1 may get him again, (hall have the above re
*ard AKEXA.VBfia VASS.
Fa'mouth. OA. 23, 1798.
N. B.—Mailers of veffeli and' Stage Driver*
- ?" ot runtrmg taiATaiow to
, impnfe on them by atfiftiog hit escape. A, V.
| Novemlier- 3 »&f. 4W .
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
JUNI 27, I7OJ.
TvTOTICE is HEREBY GIVKN, rhat by vir
, i-N tue of an aA, pal Ted during the present fef-
Con «f Congress, so much of the ail entituled
" An Ail malring further provision forthe sup
" port cI public credit, and far th« redemption
" of the public debt"—puffed the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fcttlement or allowance.
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and.
final fettlemeot Certificates, and Indents of In*
ferells, is fu£pend»d until the twelfth day, 9
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
j hundred and ninety nine.
j That on t>e liquidation and fettlementof the
j said Certificates, and Indents of Interest, at th»
j Treasury., the Creditors will be entitled to receire
' Certificates of funded-Three Per Cent. Stock equal
| to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of intcreft due on their said Ccrtificatas, prior
to the (irfl day of January one thousand fcven
hundred a&d ninety one.
That the principal fnmsof the said Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the intcreft
thweon, fincc the firft day ot January, one thou«
sand seven hundred and ninety one, willbedif
charged after li<{uidation at the- ~Ttetfury, by the
payment of interest and reimburfetntat of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would have beea
payable thereon, if the said CertiScatei had been
fubfeiabed, pursuant to the A&s making provilion
forthe debts of the United States, contra&ed dar
ing th« late wer, and by the payment of other
1 sums, equal to the market value of the remaining
' Stock, whioh would have been created by such
l'ubfcriptions asaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of the Treasury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary 9/ tlte Treafurjt
june 28 lawtl
ADVERTISEMENT.
\XTHEREAS Jahis Cummins 14 Co. late ot
VV the city of Philadelphia, nurthants, have
afligned over all their efCeAs, fial, performl and
mixod, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of all
their creditors, who flaH fuhferibe this said alTign
ment within fix months from the d»»c hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, t® allperfon#
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are
required to make immediate payment of their rc(-
poclive accounts, to theAfligoees, at their office,
No. 6a, Dock Creet, in failure whereof a<3ions
will be inllituted for the recovery of such debts 31
are not discharged accordingly.
John Trovity . "J •
John IVaddingtan, I A fljg Dew
James Taylor, J
Cornelius Com'gys J
aHguit 18 rnwftlD
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED lad night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Lufar, a fife*".—
He had when he went away, a plain blue jaektt and
veil,light -blue overalls, a round hat,which hfld been
bound with yellow, and which he hid ripped off
in his fitll desertion, and a pair of new Cioes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, fatdy hair
fallow complexion and a nirch in his upper lip
His back is fttli fore from a flogging he got a fev<
days «gi-> He may ba difcovcred by his fiicing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W, BURROWS Major Com. of tie
QfcoW tj. Ma.iasC«r?'-