of ti)t J&tates, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1793.J
A Sloop for Sale,
VIRGINIA BUILT,
About two an d an half years
—burthen 31 tons, fails faft,
an d is *ell found.—Enquire of
'Thomas & JoJhua Fijher,
No. 5, Dock Street.
Omo. 7th fiw
FOR S/ILE,
RICHMOND,
JUST arrived from the Eafl
'"dies and lying at Latimer's
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpeft as
excellent a frame, a 9 perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and (heathed. She is 80
feet keel 27% feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of.
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
> may 30 Jaw
~ I AN DING,
% At Vv'ailnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown, (
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogfbeads and in cases of
SUPERIOR eU^LITT,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SAM.
Thomas S3* John Ketland.
Said Brig for sale,
yr&f ith two pair four pound CAN-
N'ON, and one pair lzlb. CAR- j
may 29 §
FOR LIVERPCJOL;
jC"j?Vri THE 6HIP
ffl|. LIBERTY,
* SAAC Vredknberger, Mailer,
A good new veffej, fails well—
LyingVi A'harf, >vili f«kil about thetenthof
■next month, a coi.fiderahle part of her Cargo being
engaged*—For freight or p*fL»geapply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. 3. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firfl fall veflfelsio this port.
2Q dtf
JUST ARttWED,
In the brigGayofo,capt Bingham, from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent guality
A fe>v groce Porter Beetles, new
And twenty cufks Vinegar
J !f°> FOR SALE,
Enquire of
J:hu Hcllingfworth y Co.
No. 22, Little Water flraet, South,
april 10. f . §
30 tons of Lignum Vitas,
tor' sale by
NICKLIN fcf GRIFFITH.
June 7 tuth>tf
Wanted,
Approved Bills on London,
FOR which calh will be paid at par. Enquire
cf the Calhier of tha Bank of the United States.
$ §_
The Cargo' of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl,Capers, Olivw, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
'Thomas F\t%fimons
may 26.
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law. (
HAS Removed to No. 127 Cbefnut-ftreet, (
where Titles to Real estates are examined
and Brief;, thereof and Conveyanceo of every '
kind, prepared. may 22 j
The Rev. Dr. Blair's i
DISCOURSE, <
Delivered on the late National Fast Day. 1
Is jitft Publifhcd, by 1
James IVattf.us, & Co. ,
And imy alio be had of the principal booksellers. ■.
The firftvolumeoftheWEEKLY Magazine 1
With an appendix containing the President's
mefljge and the difpaicbes is now puhltfhed, ]
and may be had of the publishers—the prin- «
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia —by Ge6rge J
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somerville t
New-York-—A few copies of the Dispatches <
may he had separate.
may 25 eodtf c
Bafkenridge—for sale t
IT 'consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is c
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late '
Esrl of Stirling). It may beconveniently dixided 1
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the c
Eall by the river Pafiiek. * r
There are on it a number of buildings, forming c
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house I
ib a very convenient one,aad|a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 1500 finebearingengraf- i
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pnrtsoffai'd r
traift near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great c
rarie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
fceft and most delicious kinds. v
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and p
that add to the beauty and eonveni- b
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 iniles ']
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. j
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt h
is wooded and watered. \
"jo favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre ft
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en- a
of T. McEUEN & Co. d
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
For Sale,
A Farm and CovwTJtr Seat, "
SITUATED on the welt fide of the Schuylkill op- *
pofne to Norris-town, feventern miles from Pin- P'
ladelphia—the farm contains 155 -gc es of land, 50 h
ot which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and hi
the reft arable land. The house and garden whirh is n<
and well paled, star.d in the moll pleilam situ- lc
ation, commandiu|; a view of fho river, an iflane p,
Y/hich is opposite, and the village of Norris-town— w
There is a shad fifhery belonging to the place En-
qutre in Philadelphia, No, 96, North Third Street. f j.
or on the premises. April 16 »awil
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 9, 1798.
CONGRESS.
'* HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
)f _
Thursday, May 17.
t Mr. Sitgreaves wiftied to propose an
additional rule to the Standing Rules and Or
— dersof the house. It must of course, he be
lieved, liej.upon the table a day previous to
j decision. He would therefore lay it before the
J house now, and call it up for decision to mor
[. row. It was as follows :
» s , " Resolved, that during the remainder of this JeJJton, the
Standing Rules and Orders of the House be amended by mdd
s ing the folloioing, That no member Jhall y either in the
]m house or in Committee of the -whole>fpeak more than once
Q to thefame quejlion."
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
f claims, made a report on the petition of Jona
' than Young, one of the militia artillery, cal
j led out in the itate of Maflachufetts, in confe
' quence of the requisition of 80,000 Militiaor
, j dered at the last fefiion, who was wounded by
one of the Gannon in exercising, so that he had
e been under the neceflity of having one of his
hands amputated. He prays for a pension.
1 The report is unfavourable, on the ground of
r the petitioner's not being in the service of the
1 , United States.—Concurred in.
The Speaker laid before the house the ad -
dress of the inhabitants of Newbern, N. Ca
rolina, ex pre Hi ve of their approbation of the
conduct of the Executive in their Negociati
ons with France, and of their determination to
support the future measures of Government.
Mr. Imlay presented addrefl'es to the fame
effe<st from the counties of Monmouth, Mid
dlelex and Burlington; and Mr. Schure
man one from Gloucester County, N. J.
They had the usual reference.
The house a£ain resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the State of the Union
on the bill authorifihg the President to raise a
Provisional Army; when theconlideration of
the third feflion being resumed,
f Mr. R. Williams moved to amend the
r fe&ion so as to make the Voluntary Corps pro
' posed to be embodied by that fettion, a part
of the Militia of the United States. It ap
peared to him unneceiTary, he said, for them
p to attempt to fay by whom, or by what au
thority the Officers of these corps shall be ap
pointed j because if thecdmmittee only point
out whether they (hall be considered as Mili
tia or Regulars, the constitution lias declared
' in what manner thev shall be officered. It
was not very materia! to him which they are
j considered, though he would rather have them
considered as Militia, as it would be the cause
of producing an effective Militia, which every
one acknowledges would be a desirable thing,
but if they are to be considered as regulars,
he believed it would produce a contrary ef
fect. He hoped, therefore, his amendment
would be agreed to.
Mr. Hartley was much surprised to find
that new difficulties should be raised against
this bill. The aggressions of the Frencli Na
tion had been so great, that he doubted not,
in one .month from the date hereof, every man
who is a friend of his country will be ready to
fay we ought no longer to bear with them.
The people of this country are jealous of their
rights, and to raise a large body of troops,
without immediate neceflity, would alarm
them ; but in our present situation, he won
dered the present measure should be objected
to. He should rather have expetted a De
claration of War, which he was confident
would be well received by a majority of this
house. Mr. H. trusted the present amend
ment would not prevail, as he wished these
volunteers by all means, to be commanded by
Officers appointed by the President of the
United States.
Mr. Brooks was of opinion that this ques
tion was decided yesterday. It tiiis amend
ment were to be adopted, it would (hew that
the committee had changed their minds since
yesterday as to the manner in which the Offi
cers of these Volunteers ought to be appoint
ed.
Mr. Sitg reaves did not rife to ajifwer
any arguments which had been urged in fa
vour of this amendment, but to express his
hope, that as this (übjett had already been
fully difcufTed, no further time would be loft
upon it. He addressed hirafelf particularly to
the friends of the hill, that so far as it depen
ded upon them no time might be loftupon it.
Mr. M'Dowell differed in opinion with
the gentleman from New York (Mr. Brooks)
when he considered this the fame question
which was determined yesterday. It was said
by gentlemen yesterday, that it was unfair to
vote for striking out a fe&ion which was ca
pable of being so amended as to do away the
©bjedtions brought againftit. He believed some
gentlemen voted against striking out the fee
tion on that ground. But gentlemen arse all at
once very desirous of cutting short difcuflion.
Those who heretofore spent days in debating
on comparatively very unimportant fubjedts ;
now wish a question of great magnitude to be
taken without debate.
When this fubjetl was yesterday under
difcuflion, the gentleman from S. Carolina
(Mr. Harper) said he wished to keep up the
present system of alarm, in order to answer
certain purposes of government. It had al
ready been kept up for some time, and pro
duced effects which, he believed, could not
haVe been produced without it. It was well ;
known that certain gentlemen in this house
had for along time part been endeavouring to
increase our Military eftablifliment, and to
raise a Navy, and they had seized this moment 1
of alarm to effect both purposes.' 1
Gentlemen speaking ot the Important fer- i
vices to be atchieved by the young men pro- 1
1 posed to be raised, said, that they would make l
bare their arms, and shield us from all danger. ]
Though he should wish to encourage in our <
youth an ardent desire to defend their country, i
he did not wish toexpofe them to danger alone. <
He wished the citizens generally to bear their i
share in the feivice, whenever danger shall
appear. But it had been said, these men can a
do no good except their Officers are appointed €
by the President. His signature was to do every I
thing"; If he thought the seal of the President c
could poll'efs all the virtue ascribed to it, he \
might agree to its being used in this cafe; but 1
whilst he believed the Officers appointed by t
the several States are as good, and as well dif- t
posed to dafend their country, as any the Pre- (
iident can appoint, he could not agree to their c
being changed in the way proposed. He could c
not conceive why gewtleraen should be jea- >
lous of their own States appointing improper 1
persons. To give the President this right ;
would be to add greatly to his power. He t
believed Congress ought to be cautious how e
they increase this power; and however un- r
By John Fenno, N O, il9 Cbefnut Street,
popular the opinion may at present be, he
would express his determination not to in
, crease that po\ierby taking a portion Of it
>. from the Governments of the Individual
Sta(es, or froni this body, andaddiiigit to his.
He wiftied to keep each power within its pre
m sent bounds.
Mr. M'D. repeated what has several times
r _ been /aid, that it is extraordinary that the
0 Northern and Eaftem States, fliould insist np
,e on defending the Southern against (heir will.
-- It was ("aid, this corps was wanted to answer
the4ike purposes for which a similar force has
been raised in England and Ireland. And
1 what, said Mr. M'D. have they been used for
, e there, but to ftipprefs Puliiical Opinion. The
■C Military force is there riding over the people,
and dragging husbands and fathers from their
if wives and children, to prison, merely because
- they have taken the liberty to think. However
- much gentlemen wiftied to support certain
- opinions in this country, he hoped they would
- not wish them to be forced upon the people
y by a system of Terror. He apprehended the
i zeal of gentlemen had carried them too far on
s this occasion.
Mr. R. Williams did not make this mo
f tion, he said, to give any gentleman an op
-5 portunity of answering the arguments of ye
sterday, nor to bring at all into debate the
- question of yesterday. He made it in confor
. mity to an opinion which he then gave, and
; upon which he roted for the retaining of this
- feflion. But it is a little extraordinary that
> gentlemen will not permit others who merely
. differ with them as tp the mode of defence,
; without having imputed to them by those
. gentlemen a disposition to leave the country
. entirely defencelefs, and at the mercy of a
foreign enemy. If ever (here was a question
came before this house during the present fef
• lion, in which these insinuations might have '
1 been spared, he thought the present must be
1 one. What is the question > It is merely j
f whether the President/hall accept ofany com- ;
panies of persons who may offer themselves, i
■ and that they (hall be called Militia. He had I
as much a disposition to put the country in a ■
: ftatesf defence as any man; but he believed a !
good militia would be its defence, It '
1 I had been conceded, that in cafe of a sudden I
[ attack, the militia must be resorted to in the
firit instance. Why will gentlemen fay, that !
because a member wishes these men to be con
I fidered as militia, he is against providing ade- !
| fence for his country. If he thought it would j
b; belt, he certainly ought toadvife it, with
out meeting with any such imputations, and j
he did think so, and therefore advised it. He j
thought arms ought to be fodiftributed thro' 1
the country, that in cafe of danger, every
man might leave his plough, and take up his
mulket to defend his country. If war should
take place, then, as had frequently been said,
there would be no objedtion to (landing troops, i.
How'could these men, Mc. W. asked, be
less disposed to defend their country, because
their officers were appointed by the Individu
al States, than if they had been appointed by
the President of the United States. The gen- !
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sitgreaves) i
addrefled himfelf to a certain part'of the c»m- |
mittee. He should nevfcr follow his exam
ple, but address what he had got to fay to e
very member present. He had never any
particular charters in view. Mr. W. said,
he did not wish to take up much time of the
committee, nor should he have risen at all,
had it not been for an insinuation that his mo
tion owed its rife to improper motives, than
which nothing tended more to lower the dig
nity of the proceedings of the legiflatnre as <
the Union.
Mr. Davis said, itwas much to be lamen- i
ted, that whilst gentlemen are all agreed in i
principle, they should differ as to the means ;
of carrying that principle into eftecl. There I
are few members, Mr. D. said, who do not
agree as to the necessity of having troops in '
addition to our present militia. Indeed, he ;
must own he did not feel all that security from <
militia alone which had been exprefled bv 1
some gentlemen. He knew the French had t
landed an Army in this country heretofore, I
in defiance of the Bririfh Navy, and therefore c
might do it again ; the Ocean was 11111 open, t
He was therefore impressed with the necelfity 1
of railing men of some kind for the defence of a
the country j but the mode proposed by the f
bill as it Hands, he objeded to. Hewasafraid a
of the conferences. It would create jeak>u- r
lies and suspicions of a serious nature. Every
one knows that the people of the United o
States are divided in . their opinions. Some 11
have-implicit confidence in every every thing ii
which is done or recommended by the Pre'fi- n
dent of the United States. Others have not t
this confidence. The Eafiern States tor in- n
fiance place great reliance in the President,
and this is natural. They are well acquainted il
with his person and character, and are there- n
fore attached to him from local prejudices, n
Gentlemen from the southern States are, on f.
the contrary (perhaps too much so) prejudic- a
ed against the President. What will be the fc
conlequence ? If this bill pades, as it now a:
(lands, the people of the Kaftern States will o
probably turn out and offer their services to c;
the President ; perhaps those offhe Southern o
will not. This might produce bad effects. It l«
is probable that those who turn out will be w
called Executive Men, whilst those who do not, K
will be termed Di/organizers, 'which will create "
a disagreeable, and perhaps a dangerous divi- h
fion in the country—a division, the effects of ta
which he otfned he was afraid. Thebeftway, fc
he believed, would be to call upon every a
(late to furnifli its quota of men, to go into oi
the field for a year or two, and not leave the tl
matter optional,.as by this bill. His fears on p
this head, did not arise from any apprehension et
that the President would abuse the power tc
placed in him of appointing Officers and ac- tc
cepting of the service of men ; they arose ai
from an apprehension of undue agitati- oi
ons in the Public Mind, and from thejealou- qi
fiesand ftrifes which would grow out of them, w
Great inconvenience, if not danger, would tl:
arise not only from the difference of opinion is
exirtingin the Southern and Eastern States; hi
but also in the States themselves. In the Hate hi
ot New York, for instance, some of the Re- b
prefentativesareadvocatesof every Executive at
measures, and others are generally opposed to oi
them. Part of the people of that State might R
therefore be expected to come forward and tl:
offer their services to the President, whilst m
others will decline doing it, which will pro- oi
duce a division in tint Ifate. The fame thing tu
would take place in some others. When he c<
recollected all these difficulties and disagree
able consequences, he mult be opposed to the In
bill; not fromany fear of Public Liberty being p
endangered by the existence of such a body of d
men, but merely on accotir.; of the circutn- G
le fiances he had mentioned. If any gentleman
l- would bring forward a proposition fer jblig
it ing every State to provide a certain number
al of men, he would vote for it. When he vo
s. i ted against this bill, he hoped it would not be
I considered that he did so, from a with to yield
I pallive obedience to any Nation in the world,
;s but solely for the reasons which he had men
le tioned.
t- Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) was opposed
I. to the motion upon every principle, but ef'pe
r cially because it was founded avowedly in a
is diftrult of the firft magistrate, in whom the
d people most deservedly reposed the highell
>r confidence. If the amendment prevailed, it
e would neutralize and render nugatory, one of
■, the most important provisions of the bill. The
r member from Kentueky (Mr. Davis) had de
e viated from his usual course of fair argument,
r and had thought fit to indulge himfelf in re
n fleftions illy calculated to cement the Union,
or to inspire a confidence in the general go
e vernment. To what good end did that gen
e tleman attempt to influence improperly the
a decisions of Congress upon important quelti
ons, by unfounded intimations that the attach
- mentto, and confidence in the President, was
- merely local, and confined alinoft exclulively
- to that portion of the Union, which was his
5 birth place and residence, and that any mea
sures tending to increase the Executive influ
i ence would be viewed in other parts, anti par
s ticularly in the So"thern States with jealoLily
t and disapprobation. Language so unwarranta
i ble tended only to irritate and divide, and
, ought not to efcapcthe leveredanimadverlion.
; Mr. Da vi s asked and vvas permitted to ex
r plain. He said he did not fay that this was the
i cafe; but that the President having been born
l and educated in the Eastern States, it was na
tural the people there (liould be attached to
: ; him, in a greater degree than in other parts
: : «f the Union.
' j When Mr. Davis fat down, Mr. Dayton
■ ( said, that he had been in the habit of respeCt- 1
i | ing the gentleman from Kentucky, for his
I ! candour and general correCtness of opinion,
i ■ yet he felt himfelf compelled to declare that
l | he was not better fatisfied with the explanati
: 1 on than with the firft speech. The 'jealousy
i I and diftrult which gentlemen from Southern
States, and particularly from Virginia, ex
: i prefTed so unqualifiedly in respeCt to Execu
: tive measures, was not new in Congress, but
j was of much earlier date than the election of
I the present President, and could not therefore
; have its source in any belief of want of merit,
| talents or probity in him.
| Ihe fame diftrult had marked the con
| duCt and speeches of the members from
that State for at lead four years past ; and the
former President had been as much the objeCt
of jealousy as the present, nay even more so, !
although his place of birth ard residence was ;
j. in their neighbourhood. In proof of this, he '
recolledled well that a very influential mem- |
ber from Virginia (Mr. Giles) now absent ;
from the House oil account of sickness, had on
. a former occasion moll unequivocally declar
' ed, that he no longer reposed confidence in
' the man who was then President and Head of
i the Executive Department.
As the Representatives who now diflrufled
the Government, and opposed its acts, distrus
ted and opposed it then, when he who presided
was a citizen felefted from their own neigh
bourhood, so itwas remarkable that the pre
sent supporters of the Government were among
the molt zealous to support it at that time,
without regard to the distance of birth place
and residence of the character who administer
ed it. This, Mr. D. said, mu'ft convince eve
ry unprejudiced mind, that confidence and
dillruft were not influenced by local conside
rations as had been suggested, but must be ! 1
ascribed to other causes. that of the merits of ; !
the objects in the one cafe, and of a fixed and j >
determined temper of opposition in the other, j I
1 lie object of the bill was to provide a prompt ! '
and efficient defence for the country, threat- j '
ened as it was with hpftility, and *hat of the 1 <
feClion underconfideration was, in furtherance I <
of that object, to aurhorife the acceptance of '
such Volunteers ;is would firft step forth in I
cafe of danger. They would not be deterred '
from offering their services by any apprehen- (
lion ot their being called " Executive men," a
as the member had expressed it. They would t
feel themselves superior to such insinuations, )
and would merit by til/ conduct, the liono- '
rable appellation of Dqenders of their country. J
Mr. D. concluded with exhorting the friends t
of this system of defence tooppofe this amend
merit as destructive ot its energy, and as com- d
ing from, and advocated by its avowed ene- y
mies, whose wilh mult be to make it worse ra- f<
ther than better, and thereby to encreafe the o
number of its opponents. tl
Mr. Harper was not prepared to fay, even
if he considered .the reasoning of the gentle
man from Kentucky founded, that govern- ei
ment ought to rejea an Eastern or a Northern tl
force, because they could get no force from w
any other quarter. He was of opinion, that if c<
'so many men could not be got from the South, w
as from the North and Ealt, it was an additi- it
onal reason foradopting the present bill ; be- P'
cause, in proportion as some parts of the Uni- at
on would be inclined to submit, we ought to fr
hii (band the force from other quarters. Buthe tl
was far from agreeing witlwhe gentleman from ef
Kentucky on the present occasion, however cl
great respeCt he always felt inclined to pay to lit
his opinions. He seemed to think that volun
tary enlillments"would not take place to the
southward; that in those dates there mayexift m
a want of confidence in the President; a want th
of attachment to the Government; a want of cc
that ardour which may be expected in other th
parts of the country. Mr. H. said, he believ- eC
ed that the peopje in those parts of the. Union m
to which he alluded, are as ftrongl'y attached w
to the Government, and to the Executive, a
and have as good an opinion of the measures th
of Government, as the people in any other be
quarter of the Union. Nordid he bslievethey th
would be behind witn any others in giving a ge
thorough support to this Government, which nj
is the objeCt oftheir choice. In proof of this, of
he might cite the various Memorials which. th
have come from those parts, not only on this, ot
but former occasions, in which the flrongefl us
attachment to the Government is expressed ; or
or he might appeal ta the language of the so
Representatives themselves who come from so
thence, who constantly fay, -iiat howeverthey fu
may differ in opinion from other gentlemen hi
on political questions, they and their confli-"' ex
tuents will always be ready to defend their ar
country in time of danger. ' m
Mr. H. knew thatcertain politicians inthif qi
house, under the influence of a determined bl
Party Sp.rit, had set their faces in the most th
decided manner in opposition to all the aCtsof ge
Government; but they have not been able to itc
in induce acorrefporiding fentimentin the coiin l
5- try from whence they came. He knew thei*
er mistakes were seen and pardoned on acconnt
->• of their talents and probity in other refpeCfs j
>e but though thoir mistakes are pardoned, they
Id are not gone into. He knew also that it is the
d, creed of those gentlemen, that when a meafurfi
1- has been adopted it ought to be carried into
effe£l ; therefore though a difference of poli-»>
:d tical opinion exifls, & muftexift, therecanbend
doubt that whenever danger approaches, theft!
a will be but one voice. The conduct of the
le Virginia Militia, when called upon to march
;ft again (I the insurgents against the Excise Law
it in this (late, had been irequently mentioned,
jf and with propriety, in Hlutfration of this fad.
le He did not dOubt the fame spirit of alacrity to
preserve order in the country, and a due obe
t, dience to the laws, would be fhevvn, when
ever an occasion shall call for it, and, if pofli
1, ble, more so, in defending the country against
»- a Foreign enemy. So tar from the embodying
°f these volunteers proving an invidious dif
e tindion between different parts of the coun
-- try, he believed it would prove the reverse*
- The people of N. Carolina, S. Carolina, ajid
is Virginia, so far from holding their services
y back, because they fee the Northern and
is Eastern States come forward, the fight vvould
- arouse them. They would immediately fay,-
uOurbrethren, with whom we shed our blood
in the common cause ot Independence, are
y taking up Arms tor again defenuing their"
- country against a Foreign enemy, let us join
J them." 1 his would be their feeling, and they
1. would not flitter themselves to be outdone by
any part of the Union. Mr. H. was not afraid
e of the want of spirit in the southern country.
11 He believed their strength was less than that
ot lome other states, but their will was equal
0 to the will of any. Thev would risk tiieir all
s in defence of their cotinrty. He never had,
nor ever should have any doubt on this fub
n jest.
- { Mr. H. said, he would here notice an ob
s j fervation of the gentleman from Pewifylva
1, nia made yesterday. He asked in what re
t fpedts these voluntary corps would bejjrefer
- able to ordinary Militia ? He vvould ask, in
/ his turn, in what refpe<fts men able, afcfive and
ii willing to serve their country, men bound by
- one sentiment, are preferable to men of alt
- a » es > characters and dispositions, 'forced into
t the service? and whether the former, whose
f convenience permits them to leave home, and
e who do not leave help left families behind
, them, are not likely to be a more effectual
force than the latter ? —He believed there
- would be no doubt on the fubjedt. Every one
1 knows that the Militia Officers are an ex
- tremely refpeftable class ot men \ yet it was
t also known many of them could not, without
, great facrifices go into active service, aad
s some were too old to do it. Some might also
- he indisposed to come forward, and wherever
- j this should be the cafe, the President ought to
t ; have power to appoint others. Whenever
1 Militia Officers are able and willing to serve,
there is no doubt they will be preferred to
1 others.
Another striking difference existing between
this corps and ordinary Militia, was this,
1 These voluteers may be called out, and train
■ ed in the use of Arms, and Military Difcip
[ lme ; before they are wanted for immediate
service, whereas the ordinary Militia could
not be called out, except in cafe of aftuai dan
ger. This was a great advantage in favour of
these corps. «
But it was said, these volunteers might en
list in the independent Companies at present
in exigence. This would fe pa rate person*
; in the fame neighbourhood*and spread
; them throughout the country ; anti ioftead
jot being diftintt bodies, where they could
; know their own officers, they would be plac
• ed under men whose characters they would
j be unacquainted with, and their military fpi
: rit, which ought to be kept alive and encou
j raged, would, by this means, be frittered
: down and destroyed. Btfidcs, in some parts
of the country, there may be a greater num
ber of volunteers than could be admitted in
to existing companies. Take, for instance,
the county of Lancaster, where there are five
or fix volunteer companies now organized,
and which might admit to complete them, 3
or .too young men j but there rhay be 200 a
young men in that county ready to serve ; and
if so, what could be done with the surplus >
They mud of couife be sent to a distance. or
their service be loft.
Under this view of the fubjeft, and confi
denng this as a repetition of the motion of
yesterday, lie should give it his difFent, as he
saw no difference betwixt amending the secti
on in this manner, and striking it out altoge
ther. 0
Mr. W. Claiborne said, whether or not
all the measures of the Executive are approv
ed throughout the United States, is not now
the question. The proposed amendment met
with his approbation, and it a majority of this
committee /hall think proper to adopt it, it
would not be less acceptable to him, because
it was made and flip ported by gentlemen sup
posed inimical to the bjll. His motive tor
advocating this amendment, did not arise
froip any jealousy of the Present's mifißing
the power, but from an apprehension of its
effects upon the militia. He believed if the
clause was to be agreed to as it stands, the mi
iitia are gone.
Early in the present feflion acommittee was
appointed to prepare a bill (or placiug the
militia of this country ppon a better footing
than at present. They reported a bill re
commending a feleft corps of militia ; but
the farther consideration thereof was palipon
ed until the next lefit'oii. The present a
mendment embraced the fame idea, and if it
were carried, the volunteeryouth would fotnt
a kind ot feled corps to the militia. Would,
this amendment, if adopted, lefi:;n the num
ber of men who would be ready to rally round
the standard of government, whenever dan
ger (halt threaten ? No ; it would not, it was
merely calculated to put them on the ground
of militia, in (lead of making them a part of
tile army, and to prevent adangerousincreale
of that eflablifliment. For it was not a call
upon any particular part of the union, but up
on all the youth of the Unit.-d States, to come
forward and enroll themselves as volunteer
soldiers, be officered by the Prelident, and
fubjetl themselves to bfc called into service at
Mis pleasure ; and from the spirit which now
exilts in the United States, and the military
ardour of our youth, he had no doubt their
numbers would be very large. The conse
quence will be that our militia will be enfee
bled by the attachment of our youne men to
this chosen band, and what remained will be
generally aged and infirm. If it was the in
tcn'ion deftroy the militia aL-
\VOLVME XIII.together it would fce well for them to-fay so; I
if not, he thought they ought to agree to the (
present amendment. *
The gentleman from S. Carolina has said, 1
texcept thi« feetion is agreed to as it i
(lands, the country would be deprived of the I
ferv : ces of these patriotic young men. He
was of a different opinion. He believed, it 1
these young men wiftied to serve their cous- i
try in time of danger, they would immediate- !
]y form themselves into companies, and learn '
the life of arms, so that they may ail to
greater advantage as a part ot the militia of
the several Hates. Whilst military zeal is at
its present height, he wifhe,d advantage to be
taken of it, but in the way he had mentioned.
This fervor would have a good etfeft on the 1
militia, by reviving the dormant spirit of that
body of men, whom he looked upon as the
great fafeguard of the country. He had not
the honor with the gentleman from N. Jer
sey (the Speakt'r) of ranking amongst the
krtown defenders of the United States; buthe
wilhed to be a supporter of the present moti
on, and when danger ftiall appear, he hoped
he should be found an humble defender of
his country. ,
Mr. J. Williams would not have said a
ny thing on this lubject, had it not been for
what had fallen from the gentleman from
Kentucky, From the age of that gentleman
tnd of the gentleman last up from Tenneflee,
it w as evident they (lid not take an active part
in this country in the year 1775 ; but it will
be recolletted that there were volunteers at
that time called minute-men, who were ofgreat
service. When the British marched from
Boflon to Lexington, the militia joined the
minute-men, after they had been defeated by
the British. He never before heard that to
take volunteers from the body of militia,
would ruin the militia.
In the year 1775, the tnilitia came forward
in volunteer coips, and instituted a military
school. Hd hoped this would be done now,
as it wquld be advisable for our youth to make
themselves acquainted with military duty,
whether we are engaged in war, or not.
Every poflible objeflion Mr. W. said, w*«
urged against this bill. It was much to be
regretted that time fhotild be so uselessly em- j
ployed, by so many obstacles being thrown in j
the way of this bill. If he supposed with the .
gentleman from Kentucky, that it would pro ,
duce disorder in any of the dates, he should,
bo one of the last to vote for it. But if the j
addrefTes lately received from the fourhward, j
were referred to, it would be found the peo
ple in that country are as ready to support the |
government, as the people to the eastward are. !
Indeed the youth of Baltimore, it appears, are j
as ready as those of this city, or New-York,
to come forward in defence of their country, |
and lie expected shortly to hear that the youth |
of Charleston had done the fame. He hoped,
infteaa of damping this spirit, by agreeing to
the present motion, every thing would be
done tofi'.pport and cherish it.
Mr. R. Williams rose to reply to the
charge made by the Speaker of his having
voted for flriking out the whole of the feiti
on, atidof beinj, consequently, an enemy to
f the principle of the bill. He said he had vo
ted for it, with a hope of introducing the pre
sent amendment.
The quflion on the amendment was put and
negatived 50 to 38. ,
Mr. Shepard moved to strike out the pro
viiiion that went to confine the use of these
volunteers in the state to which they belong,
cr in an adjoining state, which was carried,
there being 60 votes for it.
Mr. Gallatin then moved to strike out
the following words in the third feetion,
" within three years after the parting of thjs
ait, and inferring in iieit thereof the words,
" heforetbe nextfeffion of Congress," which was
negatived 48 to 41.
The committee then rose, a'nd the house
took up the second amendment which had
been agreed to in committee as the whole.
The firft amendment proposed by the feledt
committee, toflrike out in the thirdatid fourth
lines of the firft feilion of the said bill, the
words " •whenever he Jball judge tbe publicfafe
ty fball require the measure," and to insert, in
lieuthereof, thewords " in the event ofa de
claration'oi'*var against the United States, or
of actual invasion of their territory by a foreign
power, or of imminent danger of such invasi
on, difcovertfd, in his opinion, to exist," be
ing under consideration.
The amendment reported thereon, by the
committee of the whole house, to add to the
end thereof,, the words following, to wit,
" before the next fertion of Congress," was
agreed to by the house, the Yeas and Nays
being taken as follow :
YEAS.
MefTrs. Baldwin, Bard, Benton, Blount,
blent, Bryan, Burges, T. Claiborne, W.
Claiborne, Clopton, Craik, Davis, Dawfon,
Dennis, Dent, Elmendorph, Evans, Find
ley, Gallatin, Gregg, Grove, Hanna, Har
per, Harrifon, Havens, Heifter, Holmes,
Jones, Locke, Lyon, Machir, Macon, Mat
thews, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, Milledge,
New, Parker, Reed, Skinner, N. Smith,
V/. Smith, Sprigg, Stanfoid, Sumter, Til
linghaft, A.Trigg, J.Trigg, Van Cortlandt,
Varnum, Venable, J. Williams, R.Willi
ams. —53.
NAYS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard,
Brooks, Bullock, Champlin, Coit, Danna,
Edmond, A. Foster, D. Foster, f Freeman,
Glen, Goodrich, Grifwold, Hartley, Hind
man, Holmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman,
Morgan, Morris* Otis, Rutledge, Shure-,
man, Sewall, Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves,
Thatcher, Thomson, Van Alen, Wadf
worth. —35.
And on the queftiort, that the house do
agree to the said amendment, as amended by
the committee of the whole house, the Yeas
and Nays were taken as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baldwin, Bard, Bartlett,
Benton, Bleunt, Brent, Bryan, Bullock,
Burges, Champlin, Chapman, T. Claiborne,
W. Claiborne, Clopton, Craik, Danna,
Davis, Dawfon, Dennis", Edmond, Elmen
dorph, Evans, Findley, A. Foster, Gallatin,
Gillefpie, Gregg, Grove, Hanna, Harper,
Harrifon, Hartley, Havens, Heifter, Holmes,
Jones, Locke, Lyon, Matthews, M'Clena
chan, M'Dowell, Milledge, New, .Parker,
Reed, Rutledge, Shureman, SewaLl, Skin
ner, W. Smith, Sprigg, Stanford, Sumter,
Thomson, Tillinghaft, A.Trigg, J.Trigg,
Van Cortland, Varnum, Venable, Wadf
worth, J. Williams, R.Williams.—64.
NAYS.
Meflrs. Baer, Bayard, Brooks, Coit, Dent,
D. Foster, Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Grif
wold, Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera,
Lyman, Machir, Macon, Morgan, Morris,
Otis, Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, £J.
Smith, Thatcher, Van Aler..— 27.
The second amendment proposed by the fe
lett committee, and agreed to by the commit
tee of the whole house, to strike out in the
fifth line of the said firft feetion, the word
»• twenty," and in lieu thereof, to insert the
word " ten," was agreed toby the house, the
Yeas and Nays being taken as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baldwin, Bard, Benton, Bleunt,
Brent, Bryan, Bullock, Burges, Champlin, a
Chapman, T. Claiborne, W. Claiborne,
Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, Dennis, Dent,
Elmendorph, Findley, Fowler, Gallatin,
Gillefpie, Gre"g, Grove, Hanna, Harrifon, /<
Havens, Heifter, Holmes, Janes, Locke, t
Lyman, Lvon, Macon, Matthews, M'Cle- t
narhan, M'Dowell, Milledge, New, Parker, I
Reed, Rutledge, Shet#rd, Skinner, W. Smith,
Sprigg, Stantord, Sumter, Tillinghaft, A. t
Trigg, J.Trigg, Van Corilandt, Varnum, ■
Venable, J. Williams, R. Williams.—s6. t
NAYS. I
MefTrs. Albn, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard, 1
Brooks, Coit, Craik, Dana, Edmond, F.vans, 1
A. Foster, D. Foster, Freeman, Glen, Good- 1
rich, Grifwold, Harper, Hartley, Hindman, 1
Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Machir, Morgan,
Morrit, Otis, Shureman, Sewall, Sinnickfon, '
Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Thatcher, Thomson, '
Von Alen, Wadfworth.— 35.
The other amendments proposed by the" 1
feteS committee, as amended by the cora
mitteeofthe whole house, were, J on the quel- |
tion severally put thereupon, agreed to by '
the house. 1 1
Mr. R.Williams then renewed his motion 1
farther to amend the said bill, by striking out,
in the fourth and fifth lines of the third feition,
thewords 11 company or companies of volunteers,"
and inferring, in lieu thereof, the words
" militia corpseftablifhed bylaw in any llate."
The Y«osand Nays upon which were taken as
follow :
YEAS.
MefTrs. Baldwin, Bard, Benton, Blount,
Brent, Bryan, Burges, T.Claiborne, W.
Claib«rne, Clopton, Dawfon, Elmendorph,
Findley, Fowler, Gallatin, Gillefpie, Gregg,
Harrifon, Havens, Heifter, Holmes, Jones,
Lvon, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell,
New, Skinner, W. Smith, Sprigg, Stanford,
SumtSr, Tillinghaft, A.Trigg, J. Trigg,
Van Cortlandt, Varnum, Venable, R. Wil
liams.—39. *
NAYS.
MefTrs. Allen, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard,
Brooks, Bullock, Champlin, Chapman,
Coit, Craik, Danna, Davis, Dennis, Dent,
Edinond, Evans, A. Foster, D. Foster,
Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Grifwold, Grt/ve,
Hanna, Harper, Hartley, Hindman, Hofmer,
Imlay, Kittera, Lyman, Machir, Matthews,
! Morgan, Morris, Otis, Parker,
! Reed, RutleJge, Schureman, Sewall, She
pard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, N. Smith,
; Thatcher, Thomson, Van Alen, Wadfworth,
| J. Williams. —51.
I Mr. Gallatin then renewed his motion
; to strike out, in the second and third lines of.
1 the said third lection, the words " -within
j three years after the pajfing of this aft" and 111 -
| letting, in lien thereof, the words " before
j the next leilion of Congrefs,V and negatived
jo to 40.
The bill was ordered to be engrafted for a
third reading to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Sitg reaves, a call of
the house was ordered to-morrow at half past
eleven o'clock, in order to ensure a full at
tendance at the parting of this bill.
Adjourned.
Yesterday in the House of Reprefentativcs
of the United States, Mr. Gallatin called
up hisrefolutions refpeiting the appointment
of a committee, to consider upon an adjourn
ment, which, after some few observations,
were agreed to, and a committee of five ap
pointed accordingly. Mr. Dawson also
called up his resolution requesting the Presi
dent to lay before the house such infermati
on as he poflefles respeCting the condiuS
which has been oblerved by the British Go
vernment, or by perfonsafting, or pretending
to atfby or under the authority thereof, tow
ards the neutral rights of Commerce of the
United States, since the ratification of our
treaty with that Nation, which was negativ
ed, without debate, 47 to 38. Mr. D. Fos
ter then called up his resolutions authorize
ing the President to grant letters of marque
and general reprisal, &c. which he moved to
refer to the Committee for the proteftion of
Commerce and the defence of the country,
1 withinftrudtionstoreport by bill or qtherwife.
After some debate on this motion, Mr. Coit
- moved to postpone the confederation of these
1 resolutions for one week. This motion was
negatived, there being only 28 votes for it.
The original motion then returned, and after
some debste, it was taken by years and nays
. as follow :
; YEAS.
' MelTrs. Allen, Meflrs. Kittera,
Bartlett, Lyman,
Bayard, Matthews,
Brooks, Morris,
Champlin, Otis,
Cochran, I. Parker,
Craik, Reed,
Dana, Rutledge,
Dennis, Schureman,
Edmond, Sewall,
A. Foster, Sinnickfon,
D. Foster, Sitgreaves,
J. Freeman, .N.Smith,
Glen, Thatcher,
Goodrich, Thomas,
' Grifwold, Thomson,
Grove, Tillinghaft,
Harper, Van Alen,
Hindman, Wadfworth,
Hofmer, J. Williams,
Imlay, '4'«
NAYS.
MelTrs. Baer, ' MelTrs, Havens,
" Baldwin, Heifter,
Bard, Holmes,
Benton, Jones,
Blount, Locke,
Brent, Lyon,
> Bullock, Macon,
r Burgess, M'Clenachan
s Chapman, M'Dowell,
T.Claiborne, Milledge,
W. Claiborne • New,
Clopton, J. Parker,
Coit, W. Smith,
Davis, s P ri fc'g.
Dawfon, Stantord,
Dent, Sumter,
Gallatin, A. Trigg,
Gillefpie, Vail Cortlandt
Gregg, Varnum,
Hanna, Venable,
Harrifon, R. Williams,
42.
The motion for a reference to the commit
tee for the protection of Commerce and the
Defence of the Country, being negatived,
Mr. Sitgreaves moved to postpone the far
ther confideratiftn of these reiolutions for one
' week, Mr. Josiah Parker moved two
weeks. The motion 011 the latter proposition
' was carried 44 to 40. 1
' Immediately after which Mr. Blount
' moved the following :
'' mereas the King and Government of Grea
Britain, regardless of those princip'es of good
; faith "Uihich ought to ensure a due ohfervation of
1 Treaties, have, in various infiances, violated the
2 express fiipulations of the Treaties heretofore made
1 and fulfilling between the United States and the
brit'ifh nation, in a manner highly injurious to the
interejl and honour of the Untted States ; by rea
, fin •whereof tbe UnUed States are released from
all obligation on their part "> reffeft I be/aid Trea
ties, or toconjider themselves as bulJen or bound
thereby
" Resolved, That it is expedient to make a
legislative declaration, notifying the citizens of
the United States, and all others concerned, that
the Jaid Treaties are no longer obligatory upon the
United States."
Mr. B. wished this motion to lie upon the
table, but fcveral members calling fur its im
mediate consideration, a vote was carried to (
that effect; when the mover said it was not
his intention to have called up this motion
until that respecting France had been decided
upon; and on the suggestion of Mr. V ena
ble, he withdrew it, declaring he would
bring it forward at a futureday.
The house went into a committee of the
whole, and spent some time on the bill pro- ,
vidingfor a valuation of kinds, and dwelling
liotifes, and the enumeration of (laves, and
had leave to (it again.
Mr. Sewali., from the committee for the
protection of commerce and lite delence ot
the country, reported the bill rel'peiting alien
enemies, newly modified, which was foine
days ago re-committed to that committee for
that purpose. Also, a bill authorizing mer
chants veffsls to defend themselves again It
French depredations. This bill authorizes
the commanders and crews of merchants ves
sels to oppose thq attack or iearch ol any
French arnied veHel, and to repel any such
learch or attack by force, and to capture the I
vefl'els making foch attack. All such cap- i
tures to go one half to the owner of the vef- ]
fel making the. capture, and the other halt to '
the captors. No armed merchant vetfel to be
fuffered to clear out, but such as is owned by
a citizen of the Unitrd States, who, together
with the commander fh.ill enter into bond
that fhc (hall not commit any outrage againll
the vefTel of any nation at amity with the U
nited Stales, and that said velfel (hall not,
during her voyage, carry any articles contra
band of war.
A bill was received from the Senate, enti
tled an att concerning aliens. This bill goes
to authorize the Prefidcnt of the United
States to order all such aliens as he (hall deem
dangerous to the United States, to depart out
of its territory, and if after such order any
such alien (hall be found at large, he shall be
imprif'oned for three years, and for ever after
deprived of the privilege of becoming a citi
zen of the United States. And it any alien
shall return to this country, after he shall have
been fe»t out of it, he shall be imprisoned and
kept to hard labour for life. And all com
. manders of vefTels who fliall arrive in any of
the ports oftiie United States after the i(t day
of July next, shall make report in writing of
all aliens which shall come pafl'engerson board
their vefTels, giving an acceunt of their age,
profeffion, description of their person, &c.
on pain of forfeiting 300 dollars.
These billsivere severally made the order
of the day for Monday.
NEW-YORK, June 6.
We have authentic information from Eu
rope, and have authority to (late, that unless
we unite as a band of brothers in defence
of our independence, we fliall be called to
witness, and that soon, an open attempt to
reduce us to the fatue disgrace and rsin, as
the Swiss, Dutch and other free nations
have experienced under the do-nination of
the French in consequence of their attach
ment to foreign nations and internal di
visions.
The dire story have undoubtedly fettled
their plan refpefting America, and this plan
is not consistent with a reception of our En
voys and an accommodation of differences.
They have been informed by their own
agents who have been in this country, and
by our own citizens, that we are a divided
people ; that our government ,does Rot pof
fels the hearts of our citizens; that the great
body of people are displeased with 1 heir
rulers, and paflionately attached to France ;
and that they could make a fourth of Sept.
at Philadelphia -with as much ease as at Paris
[Our readers will recolleft this was tlye ar
rest and banifliment of Barthelemy and
i Pichfgru—The declaration, when uttered
in plain language, is that, with the help of
their friends and agents here, they could
seize President Adams, the heads of depart
ments and all the supporters of adminiftra
ton, fend them into banifliment, and put
Jefferfon, Madison, Monroe and Burr in
their places.]
A Frenchman by the name of Bayard,
who lately returned from America, has ptib
lifhed his travels through the United States,
which book has been printed in Paris, in
which he fays, " That France wants only a
footing upon the Continent to regulate the defli
nies of the United States."
If any man can read these fafts, without
a glow of indignation, he lfruft be a traitor
to his country, and fitted to be the vile slave
of a foreign despotism.
Our time, though delayed by the great
projefts of France in Europe, which occu
py httr forces, will certainly come, when we
are to be invaded by a body of their troops,
who are to be joined by their friends
among us, our Jacobins, and when our " des
tinies are to be regulated by the French
Direftory." Our eleftions are to be an
nulled by an ediiS of some French commif
i fary at the head of a few thousand foreign
troops, and a great bod of domestic trai
tors These men wil take possession of our
forts and arsenals, as they have done in
Switzerland, and we must receive a consti
tution of governnrttnt from Paris, as the
Dutch and Swedes have been compelled to
do—This projeft is unquestionably fettled
t in the French councils, and delayed only by
the invasion of England and other revolu
tionary schemes. On these points we have
, to make up our minds and that very soon
—Wf mull soon be called upon to draw a
■ line of dillinftion between patriots ft traitors
: —to separate the wheat from the chaff.
; NOTICE,
, nnHE Owners or Consignees of veflcU per
, X forming quarantine are to take notice that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning ( Sundays excepted) such supplies as are to
be forwarded to vefTels are desired to be sent to
, the Health Office before the hour of nine.
june 8
A FEW COPIES OF
' The.Last Dispatches,
e From the American Envoys at Tars, and a few
- of those laid before Cougrefs, on the ?d of April
1 and 4th of May, may be had at thisOfficf.
Xfre Csa3Ctte,
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 9.
I FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONG.
TO THE TUgE OF ThE ANACREONTIC.
I
To Columbia, who, gladly reclin'd rt her cafe,
On Atlantic's broad bosom lay fouling in peace ;
Minerva flew haflily, sent from above,
•And addref'd her fromthunderi/tg Jove:
'• Rouse, quickly awake,
" For your freedom's at flake,
" Storms arise your renowu'dindependcncetolhake;
" Then lose not a moyitnr, my aid 1 will lend,
" It your sons will ailemblc your rights to defend."
11.
RoMs'd,Columbia rose up, and, indignant, declar'd,
Thac.nonation she'd wroiig'd,<Sc 10 nation lhe^ear'd;
xThat (he wifh'd not for w«ir,but if war washer fate,
She could meet it withfouls, independentand great:
Then tell mighty Jove*
l hat we quickly will prove,
We'il deserve the prote&ion he'll fend'from above.
For ne'er shall the sons of America bend,
I But united, their rights and their freedom defend.
• Hl -
I Minerva fmil'd cheerfully as (he withdrew,
i " For," said (he *• our 11 y Mercury of.time* reports
I " That your sons arc divided"—Columbia retorts,
Tell that vile God of Thieves,
His report but deceives,
And wecare not what madman such nonfenfftbclieves
For e6'er lhall t!vfon-> of America bend,
But, united, their right 6 and their freedom defend.
IV.
Jove rejoie'd in Columbians this union to fee.
And swore by ©ld Styx, they deferv'd to be fretf.
Then alTembled the Gods, and to all gave consent,
Their afliftance if ne«dful in war to prcfent ;
Mars arofc, shook his armour,
And swore, his old farmer
Should ne'er inhiscountry fee aught thatcoulJharm
her ;
For ne'er (bould the Sons of America
But, Hnited, their rights and their freedom defend.
V.
Minerva refolv'd th.it her JEv,is Oie'd lend ;
i And Apollo declared he their cause would befriend;
Old Vulcan an armour would forge for their aid,
More firm ih n the one for Achilles he made :
Then said he I'll prepare
: A compound aaofl rare,
r Of courage and union each a full (bare:
f Then ne'er can the sons of America bend, *
1 Buttheirriglitsand their freedom most .firmly defend.
VI.
Ye sons of Columbia, then join hand in hand,
Divided we fall, but united we stand ;
'Tis ours to determine, 'tis ours to decree,
That in peace we will Jive independent and free,
, And Ibould from afar,
Break the horrors of war,
We'll always be ready at once to declare.
That ne'er will the sons of America bend;
; But united their rights and their freedom defend*
Poltic Epistle,
1 Addrefs'd to the Young Men of Philadel
phia, who firfl offered, their fcrvicts to
• their country.
O! for a pen of fire whose blaz; might reach
To where Columbia's guardian Eagle wings
Her Htmqft flight from east to weft, from north
Tofouth, effulgent with the beam of truth !
Then, might I hope t'infpire each patriot foul
With ardor, such as grae'd, in Greece, the hearts
Of Solon and Lycurgus, or in Rome,
j Of elder Brutus, and famed Utic's lord.
Or, might I fan a flame, like that which burn'd
(Extinguift'd no»v —eternal be the lhame 1)
In mountain Switzerland, aiid blazing wide
Hurl'd down the tyrant Grifler from his feat,
■ And on.his ruin rais'd Helvetia's laws.
Or, in one hero to comprise the great
' The glorious virtues which adorn'd them all,
With fu<;h a pen, I'd rouse each swelling breail
• To feel the sacred impulse, which adorns
And brightens Washington's exalted foul.
1 Then,might we rife, triumphant o'er the threats
I Of nations daring to insult our land ;
■ Then, might we find, in honest peace, a fafe
| Ur.fleeting (hade, in threaten'd war, a reck
Invincible, 'gainst which fell faiJVion'a rage,
Or guifeful treach'ry's undermining arts,
' Or storms of tyranny, would beat in vain.
' Already swells the proud Columbian foul ;
1 Proud of its freedom, prouder yet, that flill,
Midst nations bending to despotic sway,
, Which fain would grasp the universal world,
. It (lands erefl, nor dreads the threat'nfd charge.
, Already feels each patriot heart the glow,
1 Th' indignant glow for ir.fult undefcrv'd :
J Already spreads, from Penn's famed city fprunf,
Thefoui-tnlivening ardor which will soon
Exalt, adorn, and animate the mass
Of freemen, rising to defend their rights.
1 This be my theme, to you, ye noble yauths 1
r (Noble from virtue, nature's only rank,)
Who foremofl (food, and firft on honor's pi;e
Sump'dyour fair names, andvow'd on freedom's
t shrine
• Your blood and fortune to your country's casfe,
3y friendfhip and sincerity addrefs'd.
Nor think, I wilh by flatt'ry's guifeful arts
To (leal upon your fouls ; who means to serve
Disdains such base attempts—truth onwardflalks
With port eret!l, —invites no foreign aid
To help its course, —fufficient in itfelf.
My objefl this—to fan the rising fhme
Wllich blazing wide (hall light us ro our port,
Our port of peace, Columbia's bed retreat,
If gain'd by honor, not ignobly bought.
Peace, by fubmiflion from a tyrant bought,
To meanest (lavery tends, the earthly hell
Of minds debased, and cowards wanting fouls.
Peace gain'd by honor,and from tyrantsgrafp s
By courage guarded, is the choicefl gift
Of favoring heaven - it plants on every foil
The feeds of science, warms the swelling germ,
Gives life to industry, protects the fruit
Of honest labor, and makes freemen ble.ft.
n Such may be ours ; such may I such Jhall be
a ours :
s Pledge but the word, nopower on earth canfhake
The "foill-determin'd vigor of a race
. Refolv'd on freedom—fearch th' historic page
Of Greece and Rome ; or that of later days
'Which teems with records w'nerea handful fought,
'* Union their (hield, their arms their country's
t . wrongs,
" Against a tenfold foe, and gain'd the war.
Nations are never vanquilh'd from without;
0 The foe that vanquillies must lurk within,
0 Within themselves. —What nation ever fell
By force alone subdued '—again peruse
Th'hiftoricpage —'twillanfwcr" none" enquire
How conquer'd nations funk to vile disgrace ;
You'll find, -Dfunion firft invited foes^
And warring paflions oppofitibil cbeck'd
v Till, by themselves disabled, loft in doubt
1 They trembled, hefitatirtg fought, and fell.
( To be Continued.J
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
ON reading in a morning's paper the ac
count of the reduftion of poor SWIT
ZERLAND to French Tyranny, I wa»
forcibly ft ruck with the similarity betwee*
the language of what was called the French
faSion in the Council of Berne, and that of
certain members in the Houff of Represen
tatives, on questions of felf-defence 5 such i
as fuffering the merchant vefiVfs to arip, fit- 1
tii.g out vcffels to aft as convoys, railing I
troops, &c. &c. The "Fiench party in the
Council are represented as being ih favor of
procrafti-iation, and opposed to " manly
and decisive measures, lead they fhruld irri
tate the enemy," when that enemy was march
ing in son eto attack them. Compare this
with, the Speeches of a Nicho as, a Galla
tin, Livingfton, and some others I will
not fay the motives were t l e fame, but we
have at least experienced a strange want of
energy, and a criminal supine ess—a blind
confidence in a fup|>ofed friendfhip, instead
rf which, rothinf hss be-tv received but
afts of hostility and aggression,
But the molt awful lesson for America in
[he whole hiftnry is this, that all the Jccret
refolutinns of the Council, were immediately
communicated to the commanding officer of . >
the invading army. 1
AN AMERiqAN. '
MR. FENNO,
THE enclosed printed Ciicular Letter
signed J. M'Dowell fcems intended for the
public—indeed it has already appeared in
one of the newspapers of the city withoutthe
signature, it therefore becomes necessary in"
julticeto others, that the an-hor should be
known ; 'tis said he is a General and a Mem
ber of Congress from North-Carolina. Is
it poifible such a charaftercan entertain and
disseminate sentiments so hoitile, and infor
mation so falfe against the government of
our country ? 'Tis to be hoped not , and
yet when we are told this man is the bosom
friend and intimate compauioa of a certain
notorious French agent and spy, the ex
gcneral C 1 we need not befurprized.
As this Circular is very lengthy, it ir.av on
ly be uCjfnl to publish the lad paragraph
which fufficiently discovers the drift of the
writer. But to do the American General
judice, it is fuggeftedon pretty good grounds
of belief that the letter was penned by his
worthy friend the Frfcnch general, and cor
rcited and revised by the celebrated Calen
der another particular political friend of our
Hero. |
The attention of every American to this
lad paragraph is requeded ; let them ex
amine it with care, and alk themselves if a
man who entertains sentiments so inimical to
principles of republicanism, and difrefpeft
ful $0 the solemn vote of a large majority of
the representatives of the nation, defervet
the confidence of honed men or real repub
licans !
It is by such letters that many virtuous
unfufpefting men to the southward are im
posed upon, and induced to look on their
own government with hatred and jealousy.
The moment Congress convenes, immense
numbers of crude, fitly and abominable li
bels against the adminiltration are sent thro'
all parts of the country to poifori the minds
of the people and dellroy their happiness, in
the fame manner as the effluvia arising from
acity infefted with the Yellow Fevei*, poi- .
fon3 and destroys the health of those who |
approach it.
May that kind Providence who has so of
ten rescued our country from dangers; pre
serve us from the malignant effects of both.
The Rxtraflfrom M'DOH r tLL.
" The substance or amount of this aft
is to authorize the President of the United
States to indruft and direst the commanders
of the public armed veflels, belonging to
the United States, to seize, take and bring
into port, to bi proceeded against according
to the law of nations, all French armed vel
fels, which have committed or which shall
commit aggreflions on, or have or shall cap
ture any American veflels, and to retake
any they may have captured.
This bill was opposed ondifferent grounds:
Firff, that it was a vislation of the law of
nations and a violation of an exilting treaty
with France, and that it was impolitic and
wrong to proceed such lengths before ws
know the final result ef the negociation and
before we had our small fleet equipped and
in readiness ; for, from the latefl accounts,
our commiflioners were dill in France, and
had some hopes of an accommodation. Buc
this bill paired on Saturday, 50 in favor,
and 40 against, and what was very extra
ordinary, the anxiety was so great, that the
bill being taken up in the morning paffea |
two readings on the fame day, thoUgn of I
the utmost importance, which was contrary
to the rules of the houf . A podponemcnt
could not be obtained until Monday, which,
I believe, was for fear of favourable infor
mation coming to hand. Thus I consider
the die to be cad ; they have now accsm
plifhed the long premeditated plan, for they
have long been going on in an indireft way,
deceiving the people of the United States,
that they might get them on their fide, and
I mud now conclude the attempt to nego
ciate a mere deception, and that the sole
objeft has been to bring us into the war to
relieve falling Btitain, and to form an a li
ance with that nation, to assimilate this
government to that; by which monarchy
will be endeavoured to be established here.
This bill has been followed by a refolutiou
to cut off all intercourse with the French
nation and her p ffeffions, which will no »
doubt be carried by the fame party, j' j
For the Caxette of lie United Statej.
What ! that race (forbid it blushing thame)
Whofc earleft deeds, enroll'd by deatblefs fame
Fix'd freedom'- fi:ig ; bcj»nd the weflern wavei,
Content their sons and brothers shall be Jlavesi
Humphrey*t Poemt on Independence.
MR. FEN NO,
Fleafe to insert in your paper, the following ex
" tra#, taken from an Oration in commemoration
of the Annivrrfary of Independence,
deivcred by John Qnucr Adams, Ef>i. in ifcoyear to the inhiMtwics of the town of Bos
ton. As the sentiments are truly American, [
prefurnc they #ill not be unwelcome to thii public
9t this time
•' Americans! let »s panfe for a moment to
eonfider the situation of ourcountry, atth.it e
ventful day when our national exiltence com
ineuced. In the full poflefiion and enjoyment of
all those prerogatives for which you then dared
to adventure upon " all the varieties of untried
being," the calm and unfettl.d moderation of
the mind, is lcarcely competent to conceive the
I tone of heroism, to which the lbuls of freemen
I were exalted in that hourpf perilous magnanim
» ity. Seventeen times has the fun, in the pro
gress of his annual revolutions, diffufed his pro
lific radiance over the plains of independent A
merica. Millions of hearts which then pilpi
taed with the rapturous glow of patriotism,
have already been translated to brighter worlds ;
to the abodes of more than mortal freedom.—
Other millions have arisen to receive from their
parents and bcnefaflors, the ineltimable recom
mence ot tiheir atchievments. A large propor
tion of the audience, whose benevolence is at
this moment liltening to the speaker of the day,
like him were at thit period too little advanced
beyond the threlhold of life to partake of th«
divine enthufufm which.injured the American
bosom ; which prompted her voice to proclaim
defiance tt> the thunders of Britain ; which con
secrated the banners of her armies ; and finally
erefled the holy temple of American Liberty, o
vcr the tomb of departed tyranny. Itisfiom
those who have alieadv pafied the meridian of
rlife; it is from you, ye venerable aficfters of
the rights of mankind, that we are to be inform
ed, Ahff were the feelings which fwaved with
in your !»•, alls ar.d impeile'l you fa ailion.whm,
like the tripling of Israel, with scarce a weapon
to attack, and without a fhicld for your defence,
you met, an I u-ijifmayed, engaged with the
gigantic greatness of the Britilh power. Untu
tored in the Jhfgraceful science of human butch
ery ; destitute of the fatal material wliish the
injenuity of man has combined, to (harpen the
fcytlie of death j unsupported by the arm of a
ny friendly alliance ; and unfortified against the
powerful aflaults of an unrelenting enemf, vou
did not hefitne at that moment, when your
foalb w re infeftedb/ a formidable fleet, when
your territories were invaded by a numerous and
veteran army, to pronounce the sentence of eter
nal reparation from Brita : n, and ti throw the
gauntlet at a power the terror of whose recent
triumphs was almost co-extensive with the earth.
The interfiled and felfilh propensities which in
times of p ofperaus tranquility have such pow
erful dominion »vir the heart, were all expelled
and in their (lead, the public virtues, the fpfrit
of personal devotion to the common cause, a
contempt of every danger in companion with
the fubierviency of the country, had aflumed an
unlimited control. The pafiion for the public,
had abforhed all the reft as the glorious lumi
nary of heaven extinguilhes in a flood of reful
gence the twinkling fpltndor of every inferior
planet. Those of you my countrymen, who
•were a£tors in those interfiling scenes, will best
Iknow, bow feeble, and impotent is the language
of this description toexprefs the impaflioned e-
of the foul, with which you were then
agitated : yet it were injustice to conclude from
thence, or from the greater prevalence of pri
vate and personal motives in these days of calm
serenity, that your sons hive degenerated from
the virtues of their fathers. Let it rather be a
fubjeit of pleafmg reflexion to you, that the
generous and difinterefled energies, you
were summoned to display, are permitted by the
bountiful indulgence of heaven to remain latent
in the bosoms of your children. From the pre
sent prosperous appearance of our public affiirs,
we may admit a rational hope thst our country
will hive no occifion to require of us those ex
traordinary and heroic exertions which it was
yoor fortune to exhibit. But from the common
' verfa'.ility of all human deftiny.fhculd the prof
pe& hereafter darken, and the clouds of public
misfortune thicken to a tempelt; should the voice
of our country's calamiiy ever call us to her re
lief, we swear by the precious memory of the
f ' 'ho toiled, and of the heroes who bled in
1 her defence, that we will prove ourselves not Un
worthy of the prize, which they so dearly pur
chased j that we will sil as the faithful disciples
of those who so magnanimonflv taug-ht us the
inltrudlive lei Ton or republican virtue."
At a meeting of the Light Infantry Com
pany of the borough of Eafton, in Penn-
commanded by Captain Shnyder,
on the 28th May, 1798, the following
refolutio'is were unanimouny agreed to :
1. Refol-ucd, That in the opinion of this
Company, every man n office, as well as in
his private capacity, who discharges his offi
cial and private duties in an upright, patri
otic, and unexceptionable manner, is entitled
to the thanks and approbation of his fellow
citizenn.
2. Refohel, That the conduit of John
Adams, President of the United States, in
relation to our foreign concerns, has'bten
wife, firm and patriotic.
3. Resolved, That Captain Henry Shny
der, -Lieutenant Mixfell and Ensign \V hite
do sign, in behalf of this Company, the
tiddrefs to th? President, now agreed 011,
Und transmit it to the Honorable Samuel
liitgreaves and John Chapman, Esquires,
with a requelt that the present he fame.
ADDRESS,
iFrc .7; the Light Infantry Compaq of the
lorough of Eajl'm, in the Jlate of
Pennsylvania,
TOTHI PRESIDENT OF the UNITED STATE'S.
Sir,
SOME of us were unborn at the time
'when you at d our fathers solemnly resolved
ion the freedom and independence of our
country. Poffefiiiig, however, those patri
otic feelings, with which you and they were
iinfnired on that important and memorable
Gccafion, we cannot remain insensible and
Went fpeftators, when our dearest inherit
ance is threatened and endang rd. When
we behold that nation (the recolleftion of
whose f"rvices for our country, " in the
times that tried men's fouls" naturally
prompted the grateful orison of fuceefs jn
tilte commencement of their revolution) so
rcgardlefs of the sacred rights df man, as
10 become.the tyrauts of the wnrld ; when
ive h hold them, in violation of an express
Comp.tft, prosecuting a system of depreda
fcioil on the commerce of ourcountry; when
u e consider their subtle and repeated at-
U mptj to create and organize a party a
-11 oiigft us, whose endeavors have been to
» iflead the honed and uninformed citizens,
and thereby disunite them from the govern
-11. Nt of their choice; and when we fee
t tiir shameless avowal of reliance on their
oi/n diplomatic {kill and the French party
tfciiis creattd, to subvert our gcycrnmen
lanJ effeft onr ruin, by calling the odium of
unpopular mtafures on the friends of our
I country s—we5 —we feel it ou duty, thus pub-
I liclyand unequivocally, to express our honeit
1 indignation at condudl so abominable and
1 dangerous, and insinuations so undeserved
and degrading.
We therefore take the liberty to afiure
you, Sir, tha (although we do not profefs
1 at our time of !<fr to have acquired much
political knowledge) when we review your
conduft from that memorable aera, when
' you were the co patriot of our fathers, to
| the present i> tcrelling per'od; and especially
i when we confiderth? pacific difoofition you
| have constantly manifi fted in your attempts,
by negotiation, to preserve us from the ca
lamities of war with the French Republic ;
we fee, in your conduft, that firmm si and
wisdom, that patriotism and uniformity,
which jullly entitles you to our unreferv'ed
confidence and approbation. We trull in ;
God, and in that disposition yvhic'i y»u !
have invariably Ihewn, that the impending
storm may yet be averted : but if all con
ciliatory means fh ill be unavailable, and if
it (hall be found neceflaiy, for the pioteftion
and preservation of our liberty and inde
pendence, eventually to appeal to arms ; we
sincerely declare that we will obey, with
alacrity, the call of our country, and afford
our firm support to such measures as may be
adopted for the general welfare—Thus (hall
we prove to you, and to the wotld, that we
are neither the dupes nor partizans of any
foreign power on earth.
Accept, Sir, oti'r watmcft wilhes foryour
present and futu e happintfs.
Signed the 28th day of May, 1798,
on behalf of the Company,
Henry Shnyi>£r, Captain.
Christopher Lieut.
William White, Ensign.
ANSWER.
To the Light Infantry Company of the borough
of Eajlon, in the Jlate of Pennfyfaiania.
Gentlfheh,
I THANK you fdr this addrefj,
which has been presented to me, according
to ycur requell, by Mr. Sitgreaves amd Mr.
Chapman, two of your Representatives in
Congress, with a copy of your resolutions.
rhe praise i f the brave, who will not be
guilty of adulation, is ever pleasing to an
honell car. Though fomc of you were un
born, when your fathers resolved onjnde
pcndence, it is fcarcdy possible.you fiiould
not have received from them, as well as from
your own observation and experience, an
invincible attachment to it, as your dearest
inheritance.
The nation, of whose unfriendly conduft
you complain, have been famous, for many
ages, for insinuating address, diplomatic
ikill, and political invention. In their own
talents, in this kind, they have ever had a
confidence ; which since their revolution has
constantly incYeafed,* until at present they
seem to think they can create and uncreate
charafters, give and take away,'popularity,
at their pleafute. In this country, however,
they have not entirely succeeded ; one re
putation at lead, that of my Prcdeceffor, has
(lood unlhaken and unsullied. Our fejlow
citizens mull support other charafters against
all such attacks, or the cause of truth and
virtue, as well as national independence, will
be loft.
I esteem very highly yonr approbation
and confidence ; founded, as you profefs, on
a review of the patriotism and uniformity
you have found in my conduft, through a
long political career : but the mod accepta
ble of all is your declaration, that you will
obey, with alacrity, the call of your country.
JOHN ADAMS.'
Philadelphia', June ijl, 1798.
NEW-YOR~K, June 8.
By the (hip Henlhaw, arrived yesterday
from Malaga, we learn, that the Americans
are treated there much better than any other
neutral power. Spoke a French privateer
of 18 brass fixes, was examined, treated
politely and dismissed. Had heard of the
Ranger, and said if he should fall in with
her, hejhould notJirefirJl—which feenred to
mean, that he had some orders* on this
fubjeft.
At a Meeting of two Committees one from
'I he Chamber of Commerce,'and theother
from the Officers of the late Army and
Navy, at the Toutine Coffee-hohfe in the
city of New-York, onWednefday the6th
of June, 1798 :
The said Committees having taken into
consideration the situation of the Port and
City of New-York, and being of opinion
that measures ought without delay to beta
ken to improve the defences of the fame do
for ihnt pu pose, recommend the Citizens
of each Wat d to alienable therein on Friday
at izo'clock at the places hereafter desig
nated andappointthree perfonsin each Ward
as a Committee to meet the Committees
above mentioned, in orderto devise and adopt
such measures as they may judge expedient
and necessary in aid of those adopted by the
Government for the immediate defence of
the said Port and tity—
That the several places of meeting in the
refpe£tlve Wards be in the First Ward Tri
nity Church ; in theSecood Ward the City,
Hall; in the Third Ward the North Church
in the Fourth Ward St- Pa l's Church ; i«
the Fifth Ward the German Lutheran
Church ;in the Sixth V\ aid the .Park, in
front of the public buildings ; in the Seventh
Ward the Methodill Church ; and fhat the
said several Committees convene together on
Friday Evening next at 7 o'clock at the
City-Hall. By rden-f the Meeting.
M.CLARKSON, t hairman.
Samuel Ward Sec.
Was i akeu,
FROM Sal-er's Wharf, on 1 uefdav last, a box
of Dn»g> marked [H] No 4, landed from on
hoard the Ship Nancy, captim Joy, from London.
Any person havivg th<- fame will be pleased togiVe
information to
Jofcbh Ai.thony & Co.
ju«B d 3 t |
%ijt <lsasette.
.. . .it .. .
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 9.
i 1
Married, on Tuesday evening last, by the Rev.
Dr. Gree •, Capt. James I*eander Catbcart, to Miss
'Jane Banker lVoodJide> daughter of Mr. John Wood
fide, both of this city.
on Wednesday evening last, by the Rev.
Dr. Green, Mr. David Sh-tte, formerly of Cumber
land county, New-Jersey, to the amibleand accom
plished Miss Rachel Colling*, daughter of the late
Capt. Robert Collingsof this city.
Dr. Green, Dr Bo toman Hendry, of Haddenfield,
Jerfcy, to Miss Eliza Duffi.ld, daughter of Dr
Samuel Dufficld, of this city
-- , On Tuesday 1 alt at the Friend's Mect
j ing Houfc, Northern Diftri&, Mr. Stephen Simmons
; of this Jity, Lumber Merchant, to Mist Rebecca
! Hart, daughter of Seymour Hart of the Northern
Liberties.
Aewbury -port, June \ fl r '9B.
SIR,
A number of the inhabitants of this town
have agreed to build and equip a (hip of three
hundred and fifty-five tons burthen, to be mount
ed with twenty fix-pound cannon, and to offer
her to the government of the United States for
their life, they have also voted thai they will not
accept of any farther or other compensation from
j the government than an interest of fix per cent
per annum on the Victr cost of the ship and equip
ments, and a filial rcimburfemen.t,* at the conve
nience of government of the said nett cofl, and
• they have appointed us a committee to inform
you of their ntenuons, and to requefl you to
promote a provifiou whtreby they may be ena
-1 bled to carry their defignl into execution by the
countenance of government so far as the fame
shall appear neceftary. A« we indulge a hope
that this intentiprfof- the citizens of Newburv
xport will lead to proportionate exertions in larger
and wealthier towns, we beg leave'to fuggett the
convenience that any provision which may be
thought proper and applicable to the cafe might
be general. The inhabitants &f this town at the
prelent moment are animated u'ith the raoft zea
lous rel'olutioti to support and defend with their
lives and properties thf government of their
• country as well agsinft the open attacks of fo
reign enemies as the insidious attempts of do
meltic traitors, they heartily wish their abilities
extended beyond their present offer, but the im
mense ravages which have been committed on
their property by sea, and the great proportion
of the remnant yet at rifle forbids their further
indulgence of their inclinations. It may be that
under a late axfl of government authorizing the
executive to purchase (hips of war the present
beclofe j without legislative aid, if
Inch should be your opinion we wish you to lay
.the plan before the executive, and we (hall be
the more gratified in this way as the whole busi
ness may probably be thus cor.fiderably expedit
ed. The materials are already in forwardnefs
and provisional contratfs will be entered into so
that probably in ninety days from our receiving
aflurance that government patronizes our design
the ship may be afloat; the best calculations we
hive bce.n able to make of the whole expence
reduces it below thirty thousand dollars and if
the utmost attention to ceconomy and dispatch
caivefledt any the cost frill finally fall con
fide,rably within that sum.
Among th£ good'effe<sUef the present propo
sal we have contemplated, th at in this way gov
ernment may at this period when-fo many calls
for money exist, procure the means of defence,
without actual advances perhaps with more
promptitude and undoubtedly with, considerably
lef» expence than writhe common mode of 'con
tract.
With best wishes for your health and hap
piness, we are, fir, your mod obedient,
humble servants.
Wm. Bart let t .
fVm. Coomes
Dudley A.. Tyug J
M&fes Brown ! ~
li-L P. John/on Committee.
Wml Farris
Ebenezer Stocker ■
Sam I. A. OttSfjun. _
Hon. Bailey Bartlett, £fq.
Adirefs Jrom the YOUNG MEN of New-York,
Tothi PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
SIR,
AT a time when you are receiving from every
part of the Union, testimonies of rclpeft for -your
chara&er* and approbation cf your measures, per
mit the young men of the city of New York, to join
the general voice of .heir countrymen, and express
to Aouthe gratitude, elitem and confidence with
which yourcoodutfc has infui ed them .
We have r.cu the vanity to suppose. that the ap- ,
pjaufe of inexperienced youth, car. afford any ! igh
gratification to your mir.d, conscious as it must be of
its own integrity and resources. In fcafons of peace
and tranquility, welhculd have been retrained by
that diffidence becoming our years irom mingling in
affairs which have been committed to abler hands.—
But in the hour of danger when our shOres arc threat
ened With ravage by the republic of France, andoui
configured authorities.with diflolufion ; when ou;
political rulers ate treated with indignity, and we
with our fellow citizens changed with disunion ana
diiaffeftion to our government, a fer.fe of truth & the
feelings which our wrosgs have excited, induce us
thus publicly to declare our unshaken attachment to
our coumry, and our determined lefolution to fur
port those measures which its adrniniftration may dt
reft or advise for its security;
We once weie attached to France, it was an enthu
fiafin in favor of liberty. If that enthufialm has ever
drawn irom us in comnv-.n with some of our coun
trymen demonftrat.-.ons of attachment upon which its
rulers have founded their belief, that we are unfriend
ly to cut government, we collider it as a cause of re
gret, but we assure you, that the fame enthufnfm
now unites us m ire ciofely in the defence of our
country, and irilpires us with a spirit of resistance a
ga nft thc\ efforts of that repub ; icto delfroy oiir inde
pendence. Ho.'land arid Venice are inftru&ive lei -
jons to tfie Untied States, of the insecurity of too
much forbearance, and the danger of misplaced con
fidence; but, we need not appeal to the example of
other nations. The multiplied and unprovoked ag
greflions 01 Frarce and her injuries and infu'ting
treatment to our miniftars of peace, are fufficieut to
aroufeall the energi sos the foul, to interest ev
ery feeling of the heart in the cause of ouf country,
Regard left of the faith of treaties, and in violation of
the laws of nattors her rulers authorise the capture
of our velTeJs and the imprisonment of our citizens,
attempt to sow diffention among our countrymen, and
to hi. the mcafure of tSeir injustice, they spurn the
olive branch offered by our government, and refnfe
to ltlten to us, un ess upon terms to which freemen
dildatn to lubmit; thus injured, insulted and threat
ened, refentmrnt becomes a virtue, and resistance a
j duty which we owe to ourfelvcs and to posterity ; to
1 us our liberty and independence, our country and re
[ hgion, are dearer than life; wnen our political rulers
declare them to be in danger, every citizen who pof
leffesihe fentimentsof a patriot or the feelings of a
man must \anite, and by timely and spirited exertions
protect 1 hem from faenfiee. We claim it our
as we know it to. be our duty to be plaecd fore
moft id their defence, and if war only can preserve
we arc prepared to meet it wtth becoming re
solution-
Confident in Inch a cause of the support of our pa-
I rentsand friends, the consolations of conscience and
the app/obatiou of God, we pledge ourselves to you
and to the.v orld; that if ourconntry fliould be as
failed by foreign invasion or domestic treason, we j
will *ly to i's assistance at a moraen '« warning, and
at che £azird our lives protest its government and in
dependence.
ANSWER,
Tathe YOUNG MEN of the city of New York.
CINTLZMIN,
I RECEIVE ih-s becoming, amiable and judicious
1 address, from the Young Men of thfrcity of Ncw-
Yoik, with great plcafure.
The fituari-.n in which nature has placed your state,
its numerous advantages, and its population so ra
. j.idly increasing, render it of great importance to the
I Union of the nation, that its youth (houldf be pof
ft fied of good principles and faithful dilutions
j The fpccimen you have given in this address could
not be more fatisfa&ory.
I assure you, my young friends, that the fatisf-c
tion with my conduftj.wh'ch has been ex pre (Fed by
the rifmg generation has been one of :he highfft
gratifications I ever received ; because if I hive not
been deceived in my own motives, I can finceiely
fay, that their haopinefs and that of their pofteritv.
more than my own, or thit of my Cotemporaries has |
been the objtft of the ftndies and labors of my life.
Your attachment to France was in common with
Americans in general—the enrhufiafm for liberty
which contributed to excite it was in sympathy with
great part part of the people of Europe. The cau- I
fts which produced thai great event were so extensive i
through the European world and so long eftabliftied j
that muft appear a vast scheme of Providence, j
marching to its end, at a great superiority over the
{• views, designs, hopes and fears of individuals or na- j
! tions, kings or princes, phil (Yphers or statesmen.
. It would be weak to alcrioe the glory of it, or im*
ppte the blame to any individual or any nation, it
would be equally abfard for any Individual or nation
to pretend to or pow.r. eq'ialto the mighty
task of arresting its progrefi or diverting its c u le.
May the human rare in general, and the French na
tion in particular, derive ultimately from it an ame
lioration of their condition, in the extension of lib
erty civil and religious, in increased virtue, wifd•im I
* and humanity. For myfelf, however, I confets, L
fee not how, nor when, nor where. In the mean
time, tbefeiacompreh-nfible fpecula'ions ought n>>t
to influence ourcondu& In any degree It is our du
ty to judge bv the standard of tru h, integrity ar>d
conference, of what is right and wrong, to contend
for our own rights, and to fight for own altars and
! fireflies, as much as at any former period of our lives,
or in the history of the world. In your own beauti
ful and p-thetic language, the fame ecthuliafm ought
now to uniteus more ciofely, in the defence of our
country and inspire us with a spirit of a
gainft the efforts of that republic to destroy our inde
pendence. If my enthusiasm is not mo r e extravagant
than yours has ever, been, our independence will be 1
one eflential inftrurtient for reclaiming the fei>nented
world, and bringing good out of the mas. of evil.
The refpeft vou acknowledge to your parent* is
one of the best or {ymptoms. The ties of father,
son and brother, the sacred bands of marriage, with
out which those connections would be no longer dear
or venerable, callon you and all our youth to beware
of contaminating your counrry with the foul abomi
nations of the French revolution ~ -
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 26, 'gß.
, TO CODRE SPONDENTS.
" Fabricius, No. III."—011 Monday.
" Detector"—as early as pofiible.
gazeti : e"marine list.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The Snow William, Half, was spoke on
the sth inffi. out 70 days from Bourdeaux
to this port.
The brig Tryphenia, Griffing, from
hence, has arrived at Corumia, into which
port the brig Franklin, of and from Wil
mington, N. C. to Liverpool, is taken and
condtmned.
The brig Pegasus, Newbold, and sloop
Eagle, Dimmock, from hence, are arrived
at Bermuda.
New-London, June 6.
Arrived, .sloop Sally, Lawrence, 13 days
from Tortola- Left there a large fleet of
Americans.
ochr. Sally, F. Bulkeley from Martinico,
via Tortola, 12 days -with a c rgo of molas
ses. Left Tortola with » fleet of ;oo ves
sels, principally English, bouod 10 England
under convoy of a 74 and.3 friga'es. On
the 25th ult. lat. 26, long. 66 the American
veflels fepprated from the fleet. A't:ong j
the Americans were the Pigou, .a Philadd- |
phia Indiaman, and iome other armed mer- |
chantmen, who agreed to ennvoy the re- |
mainder, about 30 fail ; but the Pigou out
sailing the others very much, left them the
fame day ; the next day capt. Bulkiey and
the brig Sterling, capt. J. Brown of Port f
mouth, who kept company, were boarded
by the French privateer ship Mercury, of
18 gnn6, capt. John Le Brune, from Bour
deaux. The Sterling having a rich cargo
of rum, &c. was made prize of ; but capt.
Bulkley's being indifferent, they rifled his
veflel of a few hundred dollars property, and
let him go, having firft put on board some
prisoners ; among them, eapt. Thomas E
vans, formerly .belonging to the sloop Mary
of Antigua, from North-Carolina, with
corn, the sloop was scuttled. Capt. B.
wasordered on board the'privateer and treat
ed politely ; he learnt on board her that (he
fail'd from Bourdeaux in company with five
others of the fame'fize ; and that their ob
ject was particularly the American trade.
The capt. of the Mercury made particular
enquiry after the Pigou : and appeared to
haee a perfeift knowledge of the fleet which
failed from Tortola. He told capt. B. that
he saved his men for more valuable prizes
than his veff.l. Came paflenger in the Com
merce, capt. Isaac Hull. Capt. Hull, capt.
Evans, and other gentlemen pafiengers
speak in terms of warmed praise of the
of the friendly and geneious attention they
experienced from capt while on
bard his velTcl, and wish thus publiicly to
acknowledge his politeness.
Baltimore, Juac 6.
Arrived yesterday, Brig Kr.au 1' redericka,
Hans Krus, 12 days from St. Thomas's.
Snow Fanny, Handlin, 12 days from the
Mole.
Ship Birmingham, 43 days from St. Ü
bes.
A correct lift of American vejfeh thai failed un
der convoy of his Britannic majejly's frigate
Proselyte, on the 23 dos May, 1798, from
Mole St. Nicholas.
Ship Polly, Hovvlarjd, Charleston
Snow Harmony, Marfliall, do.
Brig Range, Eaflon, do.
Schr. Nancy, Warren, do.
Maria,' Sherman, do.
Sloop Hudson Packet, Ri'ehardfon, do.
Brig Constant, Hall, NVwberl}
Schr. Fortnev, Fi'fher, do.
Two Sifters, Putnam, Norfolk
Ship Caroline, Norton, Baltimore
Snow Hannah. Thompson, d©.
Fanriv, Handlin, do.
Schr. Alert, , do.
Polly, Harris, do.
Rover, Weft, do.
Ship N. Rayly, Campbell,, Philadelphia
Pallas, , do.
Brig Sally, Yandfly, do.
Polly, Harris, do.
Jane, Watts, do.
Schr. Polly, Forrytb, - do.
Friendrtlip, Odlin, do.
Minerva, , do.
Thomas, Vandemaire, do.
Minerva, Dill, do.
Sloop Induliry, Lyoni, do.
Bi ig Polaike, King, New-York'
Fox, , do.
Schr. Rover, Stanley, Warrcit
Sally, Ripley, , BoftoO
Sally, York, do.
On Sunday, there will be
Charity Sermons in Christ Church and St. Peters,
or the free Schools of f h« said Churches, »
London Particular Madeira Wine.
A tew pipes of a superior quality, 6t for imme
mediate use ; and CLARET in cases.
For sale
Michael
No. 102, corner of Second and Dock, ttreets.
June 9. §
Dutch Cream, or Pate Graffe
c he f: S E.
Imported in the ihip Juno and Joseph from Am*
flterdam.
' ■ HE iFuWcriher, applied to by feVeraf
J. nerfons to fell *.he abovementioned Cheese in
frnall quantifier, he now informs his (trends and
the pub ic in general, tb:»t he will fell by thrtfwgle
cheese for the accommodation of private families $
weight from 6 to I albs. each.
T. B. Freeman,
; No. 40ifouthWat»r street, 01-39, south front ltreet*
june 0 swat
Brown btout.
SO caflf! DROWN STOIJT, of 6 and' 7 Joi.eacli,
J ufl received pef c apt Joyce, ard forjale by
Benjamin IV. Morris.
LIKt WltfE,
100 cafigs CLARET, of the very firft quality.
June 9. ' mvi'3hc
Macpherfon's Blues.
BATTALION ORDERS,
June Bth, 1978,
The Blues are to afiemble, in full oniforrfl,
except the hat, at five o'clock on Monday even-'
ing next, at GEll rs's Hotel. ♦
ROBERT HEYSHAM f Adjutant, p. t.
VOLUNTLER GREENS.
A Meeting of Bufmefs will be held at the houfff
of B. M'Shaoe, in Third street, on Saturday ther
9th of June inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening—-Se
veral proposed members will be balloted for*
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
June 5.
Tor sale, '
At the Store of Jesse (sf Robit Walk,
On Spruce street Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds.&qr. calks
Lilbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of exeellunt Madeira Wine
raay 16. m cots
ARTILLERY BLUES.
AT a meeting of a number of the citizens of
the city and liberties, at the house of George
Hill, for the purpose of forming an .
Com pa NT, to be attached to Macpherfon's Blues,
Saturday evening, June ad, *798,
Resolved,
THAT a Committee, confining of fix, be ap
pointed to receive the fignaturcs of such perfon9
(to the Articles of Afl'ociation) z% are difpol'ed to
join the said Corps
*i'hat ;he Committee meet on Wednesday and
Saturday evening, art 7 o'clock, at the ho'ufe of
George Hill, in order to confer and notify thsap"
plicants of their ele&ion
That the following peifons be the Committee.
George Taylor, No. 4, Nicholf»n.'s Courr ;
William Flin'ham, No. 15, Keys's alley, or
New *.,;-?et
Richafat Johns, No. r/Oak street J
George vVi&ng, No. 80, Walnct llreet ;
John M'Cault)% No. 73, South Second ftreef «•
Theodore Memingcr, No. 169 north Second ft.
The Committee invi«?%heir fellow citizens to
'•all upon them and enroll their. names,
june 4.
Kl OTIC E, "
THE Citizens of the City ind Liberties cf'
Philadelphia, above the a, e of forty five,
are requeued to meet at Mr. Dunwooriy's tav
ern on Wednesday evening next'at J o'clock, to
confider the propriety of embo lying and disci
plining theinfclves for the prefe'rvatioij of the
town. J une g '
g3" The Federal Frinter» are defiled to give
this a place in their papers.
NOT I C £
THE Merchants and traders of thfj city are
requerted to meet at the CoffVe-Houfe on
Monday the nth n.fiant at iz o'clock, on buli
nefs important to the commerce of the slate.
June 8.
A CONCERT 7
Of Vocal and In/lrumental Muftc.
ON Saturday Eve'ning the qth inft. at Mr.
McDougall's dincing room, No. 66 South
Fourth Street, for the benefit of Miss S. Weid
net-eleven years old ; who will join in a duetto
by Haydn on the Piano Forte. Other choice
p'eces of music will be performedrfiy those ex
cellig on different iratollmen ts, ant! every endea
vor be used, to make the eveuing's »mafcment
as fati 'a|»<>ry as poflible.
Tickets at one dollar each to be had of Mr.
Loverly, No. 162 Spruce-fircet, and at the dorr
of the Concert Room.
A'CW L,HMD J AG, r
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bottr-deauT, and for file by the fulfcriber "
88 cvfcj CLARET
72 do. do. of a superior quality
a trunk* green PAfkASOLS.
Thomas Mwgatroyd>
No. 11,»Walnut-ftreet.
triio has on hand,
Vhite Wine in hall Caiks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality,.in
boxes and baskets
Lunelle , Entitled to
f a -n! e r^ e ( ! Drawback.
Infli lViai-lcet V WINES id Cases *1
Wacarty aid I
M edoc _J
< Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags, i
may 29. codtSFOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
XO tons of Sheet Lead
Apply t#
Rithard D. Arden,
No. 26, North Front street.
June 7
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Mulcovado quality, which he offers for
sale very law for cash or at 60 da^s.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, Sec. &c.
June s <*tf
FOR SALE,
On board the Ihip CLOTHIER, at Perot'a
Wharf
Excellent Chelhire, and ) rnpp«p
. Double Gloucester i CHEt.Sc,
& fine order — ALSO, a few Cratei of
Queen's Ware,
Well assorted for Families,
june 4 f IW
' TO~LET,
The House No. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in go.d repair, and a capital Stand for an y
kind of bufineh. Apply as above.
June 5. §
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret
Frontinac ( Wines ia Cases.
Sautcrne f
Lundi j
feed Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hoglheads of TobaDco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
Now Landing,
At Messrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
65,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Hog(head», Tierc.s, Barrel*, and Bags,
FOR SALE BY
SAMUEL HATS,
No. 89, South Third Striet
june I L
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Tar J.
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Wine,
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4 d >ct
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Fnnt-Jlreet.
HAVE received by the (hip BeNidere from
London, a quantity of Unflia Goods, con-
Cftin qi Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glafgo<v, an fcTortment of Scotch goodr.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Luteflring*, aoda variety of India Muslins. j
gvav d 3 w 1
try- JF Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
Formerly of London, a.id who left England for
fame part of the United States of America, in
the yfcar 1796, be living, and will apply perfon
allycrby letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Messrs. Ifaae Hazlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpeft
ing the said Mr. ChaWc3 William Klemeke,
would be thankfuliy received.
mav Tq dqu*
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTINQof Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now fcllmg off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purchase of Enqune of
7 homat Randall,
No. 88 SpruceJlreet.
may 17
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITEDSTAT£S
STANDING on theßqoksof thetreafuty, were
forwarded for Lofcdon by th« (h»p William
Penn, Captain jofiah. which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed tp be loft, viz :
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Fhredrea. in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
SO2l. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name ef
Ed,y?ard Horne, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormlby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated Jaly 10, 1797* No
10199.
40183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mat hew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated OAober 31 1797. No.
11820.
Fbr the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the fud office of
jhe Treasury of the United States,—and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen Ihares Storkof the Bankof United States.in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty ot Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of w Sich,application is rteant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. s6w
The following Certificatesof Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No.aisC> —l3o66to
130751 ten lharts—No. 2149—1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 115 18, ten (hares
—No. 2147 —114 71 to 11480 —Amoanting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
Ihip William Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal of which, application will be made to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I »d6w
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has 6ve years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent wair.r, and
has been accullomfd to marketing for a family
his age about thirty two year*. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office »f this Gazette,
msy 1s- §
United States, 1 ~
Ptnnfylvania DiflriS. J
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT In pursuance of a Writ to rac dire&ed,
from the Hoh. Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of
the DiftriA Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennfyivania Diftricl, will be expefed to pub
lie lale tst the Custom-House, in the City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the aoth day of June, iuft.
at 12 o'clock at tioon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having keen libelled against, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the said court.
William Nichols, Marihatl.
Marifcal't Office, )
Jane sth, '9B. { STQt
Colle<£tor's Office,
Philadelphia, May I?, 179^*
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION\
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain iu the Custom House
(tores more than sine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 20a one girthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
w£p one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small b»x medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W ) one small box of samples of buttons
I a 3 three bales girthweb
VHJ 200 one ditto ditto
N]' 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark ) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LS] one small b(. x locks 15 J
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
tbe eleventh day of Junt next, at the M«r
chants'Coffee house. in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TEACTS OP
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatauaha rivers, ad
joining the commoni of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of tbe Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M-Intofli, JohnHowell, & FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres r n Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre* in Bath county, on both (ides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands 01 Jac#b War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and JohnDilley, including
3000 acres of prior fur veys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm springs to Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters ®f said river, and
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts of ofre
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra«sfcs abov# dcfcribed.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the al>ove mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORG AN,
No. 4:, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKiiR,
may 14. No. 9, North Eighth (treet.
By virtue of a dectee of the honorable the fugh cou-1
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber wilt fell
at Public Sale, on the premises, on Monday, the
85th of June next at 11 o'clock In »he forenoon,
THAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad part of No- 54, property
oF Nicholas Slubv. merchant of mis city, situated 011
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore ciiy, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings aad imp'ovemrnts thereon. There are
erefted on tliis valuable property, several large and
commodious bii k Warehouses, capable of contain
ing from '5 to 80,000 barrels of flour, with a frame
shed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
bold 1000 hoglhead of Tobacco; in perfeft fafety ,
' from the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deep-ft water in this harbor, an
extensive ard well conttrt&ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards and capable of receiv
ing (hips of anyhartnenat the lowest tides. F'om
the many advantages this property is known to poilefs,
it is esteemed equal if not superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and must be a de-
Arable ob e&tothofc inclined to puichafe so valuable
an eftatf. It is unnecessary to fay more on this fub
jefl, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises [previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to the trustee for the payment of
or.e half the purchase money with interest, within
three months, and the residue with interest, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may »8. dt*stbje.
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels ) of B ef of b«ft quality, put
50 half Barrels ) up with carefor long voyages,
ico BarreU of Connefticut Pork.
50 Barrels of ConnetfHcut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of bed Durham Mustard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger s Wharf.
may 4 eodtf
FOR SALE,
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Sannas
Mamoodics Peniafcoes
Tickiries Baftas
Romalls Cofias
Dorcas Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfvrtment cf
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordesai Lewis.
may 25. d2w jaw2W
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jufc received,
AMI FOR SALE BY
Alex, y. Miller & Co,
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18.
Fresh I eas.
Ju/l Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, it
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-flreet,
an® av
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a(Torted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sactins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
7bey bate also For Sale,
E!1 wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8. $
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-flreet,
idjoining the wall of Mr. Jcnes's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
( confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen andahmdfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a raore particular description iscon
fidered unneceiTary.
The terms of payment will be one third cafli,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ia
months with interell. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
No. 1» Dock-Jireet.
may 16 §
Military Colours,
FAINTED ON SlLK—ar
George Rutter £3" Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a {Lile which will ensure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and wh'ch forneatnefs
and t-*xa<slitudc of colouring cannot be furpafied in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
FurniCied with dispatch, on the mod moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that fupe«-b stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rn ter pledges
himfell from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hi* friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
" NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
Gullagcr, m terms derogatory of our pro
fiffional abilities, we have to requefl the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the me r its o( each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them te invalidate the ta
lents ef edahliihed artiite, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that buGnef. which
their profeflicnal knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. -Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew theneccf
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th;
feif flattering advertisements of Mr G
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS wiil please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Morris' Court, or Hewry Frailey, Gcrmac
town. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppoiite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beaucy of
colouring, ceatnefs and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furni(hed with all possible dispatch, on the most
reafonahle terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist matter of hi? profeffion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, punctuality, and reason
able demands, will meet ths entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wiilpleafe to c-11 at his Painty
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a fuppjy of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maherly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau:ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good Hlks by George Rutter's pencil—and
diicover the requisites for the contrasting talents
of Henry Fraiiey, at Germantown. may to.
To be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately opposite the wharf on the river De
lawarc,
A Large new two (lory brick House, and Lot
sixty leet in front and one hundred deep—
The House consists of two large parlours, one 17
by ar, the other 19 by 21, an ehtry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
well flniihed garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room, &c. witji good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well (inilhed and in perfect order.
Immediatee pofleflion will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and (hew the
premises. may 24 3taaw
Now Opening,
At Wi u. 1A mM'L Aw s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general afiortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH I, t?9B.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
(Npurfuance of the AH of Cengrefs faffed on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-fcven, entitled An A<ft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A& patted on the fifteenth da/ of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
"An A6t to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A6t enti
tled "An Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
flrft dayof julyenfuing, the Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, spon which lhall be
written or printed any or either of the inftrumenti or writings folio wine—to wit:
D/s Cts. Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - 5
Any Licence to pradlice,or Certificate of the admilfion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney,Advocateor Pro<slor, in asyCourr of the
United States, - - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the faftl Offices, (hall so far is relates to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Chirter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - !
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of anyLegacyleftby any Will or la
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any (hare or part of a personal estate di
vided by force ot any statute of diftributians, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereof lhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and {hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - *s'
When the amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall riot exceed five hundred dollars, -
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of x
Any Policy of Insurance or mitrwmem in nature thereof, on any (hip, vcflel or .
goods insured from one diftridt to another in the United States, 25 ' '
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is madeihall not exceed live hundred dollars, - 25
When the sum insured (hail exceed five hundred dollars, - j
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever. that (ball pais the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifli for the use ofthe United States or fame particular fltte, -
Any Bond, bill (ingle or penal, foreign or inland bill or exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contract, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefpedtively, - - - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - ro
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and nor exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes lball be fubjedl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - | 4
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, I lf)
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, | 20
If above one thousand dollars, -
Any Notes iflued by the banks now eftablilhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
lifhed within the United States, ortier than the no«t* of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpe&ively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, , 0
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - a
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - -
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, ' - -
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diflriA to yiother diftriil ofthe United States, not being in tiie
fame State, - - - - to
If from tbe United "States to any foreign port or place, -
>*ny Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or tfFstts, made in any
cafe required bylaw, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,)
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a share in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, - v
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
If above one hundred dollars, -
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be collected and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeclors aud other Officer#
of Infpe3ion, is the several DiltriAs, Surveys and Uivifions of the United States, and by such other
perfonsas (hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifors of Dittridls for
that purpose.
111. I
The Supervisors of the several Diftri&s will, prior to the firft day of July enfuipg, and as soon as
may be pra«sticas>le, mark orftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelscTf Vellum Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties • Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper ruay at the option of the Citizens of the United States be'ob
tained at the rates prefcribcd by law, by application to any Supervilor, InfpeAor, Officer of Inflection
or otber person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftricls
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abonementinned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March IQ» Secretary oj" the Treasury.
IEPARTMENT,
TREASURY
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice it hereby given,
THAT byana<fl of Congrcfs pasTed on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the pafl*ed on the 6th day »f July 1797, en
titled "An afl laying duties on (tamped vel
u lum, parchment aHd paper."
J.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpetfors refpe<£tively, to any persons other
than Offictrs of the Revenue, who may pur
chase it one time or procure to fee stamped, any
quantitiesof Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties lhall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; butifor stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eash skin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifli
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for anylefler quantity.
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
- Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftables,at present in the tenure of Major JaCk
som. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April a. 5
The Co-partnerftiip of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly atftho
rifed to fettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner cf Market and
Fourth Streets arc now to b* let .-—Enquire of Jo
seph Davidloa.
April &6 w&sim
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
TN Greene vJounty, Commonwealth of Pennfyl
-1 vanu, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling;
Creeks and Ten Mirk Ran.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
aboundm Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
hve {hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370: acres, which were patented in 17^1;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monongihela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Waihington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greetiefburgh and Wheeling.
of one lourth of the purchase mo—
ney, a reasonable credit will be given lor the refi
du,: - Enquire of the Printer,
april if. j
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the Slateof New York, betwsenthe nqrthera
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Suftjuehanna
now, or late in the townfliip. of Hamdcn and
W arreu and county of Warren.
TheCe Lands, from their quality and situation,
are a very desirable object for any roan who means*
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ncy, a reasonable credit will be given for the refi
d"c - Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. 5
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wifli to receive two or three genteel boaiti
ers. The Houfc is haadfom«ly furniihed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the eheiceft Fruit.
There are several Musical lnftrumcnt9, amongf]
which is a most excellent patent Piano Forte. Ths
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may beat
thefervice of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mod excellent
-the Water good—and the Air unequalled is tha
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of thisGa*
zette. dtf may 16.
ADVERTISEMENT. *
WHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jtn(:
Hodgkinfou, haveby mutual tonfent agreed
to liva fcparate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn aJ t
persons froititrufting heron my account, as by
contrail (he is to fupportherfelffor the future, aa J
I am determined not to pay any dct>t of her coa -
tracing. SAMU£L HODGXINS.ON, *
ma y J i' *Jtiaw