of tf>e anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NatttEJt 1704.J
FOR SALE,
jTA* Schooner
' rHREE SISTERS,
Burthen 85 ton», two years old
-.\i"K | l»- ■ built of the belt materials, and now
*cady to receive a carg.. Said veffcl may be view
ed at Mr. Samuel Brewer's wharf, Kenfmgton.
For terms, apply to
GurneyJtf Smith.
February 16. $
Nicklin Ss" Griffith,
At-their Store on Walnut Street Whdrf—
HAT* FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hh<«.
TenerifFe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef chefb
Sail Canvass, No. "1, to 8
Dimities, Ginfbams, asd Maflinets, in packa
ges suet able fpr the Welt-India market
Nails allotted
Black quart bottles
Cjoeens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
iVip Diana, from Liverpool, expelled round
as soon as the navigation is.op«B (
Fine Livwpoal Salt
Coals
Spanilh Brawn "J
Venetian Red
Purple Bro*h i p AINXS
Patent White ;
WJiite Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
i&o bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
Ship Diama,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
firm Of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed In
NTCKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For' Savannah,
Thefafl failing Ship
ujgmjr SWIFI PACKET,
(a regular trader)
Patrick Gri bien, m*/ler,
WILL fail on the 10th jnft.
(ice permitting) hashandfome accommodations
for paflcngers. For freight or paflage apply to
the master on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Market-street, or
N. ISf J. Fraaier,
No. 9J, South Front-street.
February j. <
For Amlterdam,
v—«. The Ship
F A R M E R,
John M'Coliom, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready* For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
pillage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-Hrcet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeanx. and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflcs
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
.Saoterttf, > Wines in cafoi
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe i«.
For Sale or Charter,
& GOOD "HOPE
WwmA Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
«SSEj is ready totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 15x, South Secoad-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Kum, Madera, Lilbon,and TenerifTe win®.
November 7. dtt
Flax Seed for sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. lj, South Third-flreet.
Janaary ay 5_
Twenty Dollars Reward,
T7OR taking up a runaway fervaut Girl, named
i Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
Smith, and fencing her to North Front-street, No.
45. the is of a chunky make, and vary dark
complexion, with round features, and black buftiy
hair ; probably much altered by paint and pow
ers, as (he is luppofed to be fccreted in houses of
d fame, though 110 more than fifteen years of age.
c ebru ary 19. eorw
~Bofton Glass Manufa&ory.
THE citi*cns of the United States are hereby
informed, that the ijianufa&ure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
Bttftoo.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
ouality of the Boften Glass, as it is so well known
Aroughout the United States to be in every ref
*e& greatly superior to any ever imported Irom
Europe.
It will bo cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conflantly had by applying to Ctat/ej F.
Kufftr, at iheGlafi Houle.
Orders ffrmthe distant Statestobe adJreffed to
Mr. Samuel Ctre. C.urt-ftrart, Button;
fj" Tw4 or three good GUf> makers are want
-4J at the above works; such as can produce re
eommendatloas for good behavior, maybe fore of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, st
the works. Men without tamilies w ill be pre
ferred. H*wever unacquainted with the method
of waking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with th« fame encouragement.
Boflon. January 16 X aaw6w
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOMAN just arrived from F.agland, wants a
p!sce •» a Nirfeor attendant on the lick, either on a
Ofmlemsn of Ladv.— For further iofntrnaiion apply
ar to, Seath ftrect, near Markc ftrc*t.
fro. 6. 3 (
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 24, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffic-houfc in Second-llreet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two (lory brick Hcuie, with t two
,story frame Buildings, 011 a lot 20 feet front and
ioc feet deep ; alio, a vacant Lot of 40 feet iquaxe,
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is iituated in Chrirtian-flreet, between
Front and Second-streets, the i\.co»d house from
Mr. Caleb AAi's.
NO.l. A three story brick House, fi.tuate at
the north cast corner of Chefnut streets, being: 14
feet on Second-street, and ao feet on Chcfnut
ftre«t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 40c dollars, and is deemed one of
the bell flands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. J. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 20feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-Oreot, between Market and Arch
ftrtets, No. 40 This oufe is built and fimflied
io the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whohe. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fect let for 600 dollar* per annu«n with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, (ituate in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third street,
being ao feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny. •-
No. 5. A three (lory brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five (lory. It is a<3
feet front a&d 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and i% rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafti,
one quarter in 6 montks, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1798. 3aw
£jf* On account of the present bad weather, the
above sale is postponed until Thursday evening, the
fifft day of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. j6.
JUST ARRIVED?
In the Ship Star, Jof.ph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, aflfortr
ed to suit WeR India market
40 hogsheads Whi'ing
1500 bufliels good House Coals
A t 60—-JUST LANDED,
4fo barrels prime Beef, Boston and New-York
50 barrels-Pork
150 hhds. Hava;na Mobiles
Woolen Cloths'^
Blauketo > afforded in packages
Hard Ware 3
Ravens Duek
Window Glass in boxes, Bririfh, of various fiz*s
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groee each
A general afTortment of Queens' Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and iflols, in cases
Basket fine Salt, in
FOR SAX E BY
Thos. ii 3 John Ketlahd.
February 15 stlM
The Subscriber
INFORMS those whom it may interest or con
cern, thac the Judges of the Court of Common.
Pleas have appointed Monday, the tzventy-Jixth day of
February next,to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubjedt of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Infolvcnt Law—and
that their attendance is deOred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Jan. f<s. eot26thF
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for :-heininfpec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-honfe in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fcrut : ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. tft 1795.
Surveyor General's Office,
* December 2» 1797.
ON a releafcof survey of 433 acres.6B perches
of land, fnuate in lower Smithfield townfliip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhcad, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the above caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary
or the Land Oftce.
N. Litfborough.
January 16 §tiFiwtm
Salisbury Estate.
Subfcriber, proposing to contraS his bufi
neft, offers this EiWte for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built (or the purpose of catling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which ii under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hey and
failure. The Can'non lately manntadlared there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, *nd prubably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place ot arms lying in the Date
of Connecticut, and only 30 milej from several land,
itigs on the Hud Ton's river, and having every advan
tage that can re(ult trom a plenty of water issuing
from a W'ge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purpofei. The purchaser can beaccnmmndar
ed with all the (tosk and utensils, and have pofTeflion
onor belore the fird of June next, and prepar tioo
may be made in the mean w me for going into Blait im
mediately thereafter, for every patt will be delivered
in good ordtr, with some coal, Ore, Ac. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. (ofefWi Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E'q. one cf the KeprefentaHves
in Congress for this State ; Mr, D .vid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or tolheprootietor in New-York.
WILLIAM. NEILSOM.
Dee. 1. |iwtf
Landing this day,
From on board ths schooner Two Friends, Dm
lei Crawley, Master,
s"^'""f Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
Georgs Latjmcr & Sen.
MBvemktr 9. ( j
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
'"P'HE term of Co-partnerfliip between the fuh-
JL fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by muti.al
consent will not be renewed- The debts and coo
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnerlhip
arc earneltly requested t» make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J,m.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 stf
FOR SALE, sr
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMOKCST WHICH .1 it E
Gurrahs v M;ito«odics
Baftas Saunas
Guzzenas Fauda Coflacs
Guzzies Eme-rties
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Pa!a»i;>oors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of thema
nufstauies of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 j
Alex. J. Miller Iff James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
TN FORM their friends in town and country, that
1 th< y have opened a WholefOe Dry Good .Store,
at No. 64,South'Front s<reet> Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kcaeping a general af
fo.itnient qf India, German, Iriji, French and BrL
tijh Mannfaduresfor sale, on advantageous terme
for cash or a fliort creait.
February 19
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Mtiflins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2w
~ A PRINT.
rHE Print, reprcfenting General Washing
ton and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the *sth of
March next.
An unQniftied impreflirNn is to be seen at Mr. M'El-~
wees's looking-glass ltore,.No. 70 South Fourth Street.
The fubfeription will close on the 10th of March
next. Subscribers may defend on having the best
Prints at one guinea and an kalj. To noa-fubferibers,
the price will be two guineas.
February 19.
Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his mailer's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, on the sth of this ia
ftant Febimary, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phiGognr my is vacant but nov
dilugrceable ; his age is supposed to be about 40.
He had'on when he went away, a (hort blue cloth
coat, striped caffimere vest, corduroy breeches,
and yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture—
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a ftort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other cloathoe he took with
him cannot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eastern
(hore of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his mailer
may get him again, or bring him home, &allhave
a reward of twenty dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. 5
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the slate of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, pra\ ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gam!l his liberation, purfuan: to an atfl of the
Legislature of this State, entitled "an a& for
the relief of insolvent debtors," paflsd the »6tTi
day of January 1798 —And the the fa:d court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of Mar. h
next fer the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at th.
Court House in the Middle Precinfl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, »f which
ilis creditors are requefUd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb 14 —iawtw
Princeton—New-Jerfey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lired ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house' ist«o stories high,
of frame work and painted. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, andfive
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is pived with ftoncs. In it are a well of excel
lent water, an even, a fmokejioufe, anil house
for afhes—ar.d behind it a carriage house. hay
loft, graeery. and convenient stables, with four
flails for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide npon the street, and 154 fee!
deep, somewhat more than half of whi.h i>
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil
For terms, which will he maiie very reason
able, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. aaw4w
IN THE PRESS,
And speedily will be Publi/bed,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Reguliti»cs therein :
IVrttttn at Sea, iil the year I 794 :
And now printed
»r THE AUTHOR.
" A navt would be maintained hut to an almost
useless purpefe which taking the seamen kept the
merc-har.tmen idle in port, aud trading Viffuli
would be as unprofitably employed, if they took
311 thorcftamenwhofcfkillandceurageonbr.utl ship«
nf war, would give them pr tection and secure
their fafctr. We have enough for both pnrpofes,
and the cultivating hand .f attention alone iswant
ing to trultioljr their number. " Money may buy
" all naval ilores, except mariners; but, unless a
" supply of them i$ prcferved, no wealth will be
" able to procure than."
KcMuary 7
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 92®-acres, ilfr.oft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidecctf of the late
Karl of
into five farms, whi;h arc boundod on tfhe
Raft by the river Pafaiek.
Th r- are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare <*f ncanly three aerfes—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one. and t a fmail expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard con fills of 1500 fin* bearing cngraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirt>ol said
tracfl near 300 other Apple Trees—as atfo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its fjtuation is aln.ut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and iz from Springfield—lt
is woode d and watered.
Jo favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN 5c Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut trcet.
February ft. eodtf
ftrefh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frcde
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pearce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.
Figs in k?gt
Almond kernels in calks ani boaes
Soit (heft'd almonds in fackc \
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
The whole of the articles (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February 5
Prison M anufadtory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prifen of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to lody
Flooring Brads, Springs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwcod
Shoemaliei s and Sadl'Ti Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for carrier's tables,
tomb and hea , {tones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, dabs, facia, window hea4<, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a ditlance, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agont for the psifon, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6m
For faie or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Griund /
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square This lot is fit'ty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth llreet ; there are at
present two l'mall two llory brick houses, and a
number of small tenement? thereon.
si If 9, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fruit eon
Water flreet, between Mulberry an 1 Saflafias
Streets, containiivg in fronton Water firerr fil
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five seer, the* widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ c alley adjoin
ing Oil the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatioß for a a merchant, flour factor, or others
who may have occalton for fto'age of goods.
This property will be fo'd en very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
July 3>. m.Vwtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-tflores of Mefirs. Dob
soNj Cavpbfll, Young and Ormkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op nions and pra&ice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa«sts and reflexion* relative to
the Synoclus l£leroidu t or Yellow which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the I'nited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of FhyCcians,
and Member of the American Philolophical So
c;«ty. Feb. i
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the a®th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBIJRN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books arc kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Waking
ton, N« 11. and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in molt: of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinefsof a Broker, inbuyingasd
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco>.nting Bills and Notes of Hand, liile of
Lands, House*, &e. &c. will be du'y attended to,
hy Wlvj. BLACKBURN.
November 15. J
IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEtDILY WILL B& PUBLISHED,
(Price 25 Cents)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
OF THR CONDUCT OF THR MtCVTirt,
As published in the
GAZETTE of t-lic UNITED STATES,
Under the fignaturt t>f
SCIPIO,
In which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faction in this country
as its source, and the motives of the oppofitior.
to the measures of the United States arc cxpofed.
J'cb. $.
FOR SALE,
By the subscribers, No. ii, Penn-flreet,
The Carga of the Ship Ganges,
J«hn Green, commander,from Bengal,
C<4tifijling 0f
Baftas, of various qualities and pries*,
ColTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Guzzfydo.
Humhums Charconua Dorea
Blue Cl.th Tjnjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MultnuU
Mamoodvs Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bsndannaes
Giirrahs Sifierfoy
jPiniafcoes Choppa Romab
'Kalgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals • Pertians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
9«,c 9 0 lb. PEPFER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
comnniiious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-ftretrs.
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs. of ele
gant patten c and best colours,
February I. ' dtf
FOR SALE, "
By WHARTON csf LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street^
A quantity of Tanner'# Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ift and ad proof Brandy, j drawbaok.
Madeira Wine,
! Juniper Berries, &c. &c
-- codtf
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hogflieads best ST- CROIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 linScwtf
Wanted,
An adire, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the bufintfs of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer*
February 7 §
WANTED
. A young Gentleman to go
Do£tor of a Ship to the East- Indies.
Enquiie at No. 25 Do. k Street.
Feb. 6. di w
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the 24th January iaft, «
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is of a middling sized flaturc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox jg the face—bhe
carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No iBl, Arch-street, comer of Foßrth-£lr««t,
fliall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors f«id Girl alter this no
tice, (hall be prosecuted to the fsverity of the law.
Februatr IP.
NOTICE.
\ LL persons who have any demands sgainft
the ellate of WILLIAM COMPTON, lat.
of the city of Philadelphia, decsafed, are rcqucf.
ted to lurmfh their ascounts, duly attcfted. And
thofc wbo are indebted to fjid clbit ', areearneftly
folicked to make immediate payment, to cither of
the fubferibers
Isaac Cat brail, 1
Jvkn Haworth, J- Adminiftratori.
Samuel Wilcox. J
January 17. ws4W
N O T I C E. '
\ LF. psrfons indebted to the estate of Peter GiH
' *■ late of the Diftriit of Southwark, dec afed,
are requeued tr make immediite paymentrto either
of the Stibfcriber-i; and those who have any de
niands against said estate, are requeued to-bring ia
their acsoutitsdnljr attested, to
John Murphy, ") _
Peter Scravendyle, L :ccu *
Thomas Farrell, J tors »
J.tpuary 16. l awaw/tw
Lately Publiflied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornel of
Second and Chefnut ftre«ts,
< ( Price 3-Btbs of a dollar J
Obfer vat ions on certain Documents
Con'ained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ciiaroe ol speculation aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late secretary ot the Treasury it FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication prefenti a concTe ftatemtnt at
the baft meacs pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chafers cf tbofe
p-rfons who are considered as haflile their difor
ganizipg'fthemes. It also contains the corrtfpon
dence between Mr. Hamilton an,: MelTrs. Monro®
Mublcnburg and Venable, on the fubj»<ft of the
documents aforefaid, and a f.-ries of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Hamilton
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, that the
csnneflion between him and Reynold, was the re
fultof a daring ennfpiracy on the part of the lat
ter and his associate* to extort money. ~
'' ' difconnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholes.de purcha
sers, for casu. Orders to be addressed to Mr
Younq,,
February
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOOD S.
r Forenoon—EdwarJ Fox, No t(,
AW*,} . . r ° u,h
J j Afternoon—Footman & Co.Ke. 6c
South Front flrcet.
r Forcnnnn—John Connelly, OI?3 City
Tuefday\ Au>3lon » Front-ftrcet.
Afternoon-Vvill.jnj Shannon,
, iS? Htgh-flreet.
lVedx<fiay \ I?enfon ' N »- U
fomh Third-ftrret.
TburfJoy 5 I ' orenoon —£ow«rd Fox.
I AtK-rnoon—John Connelly.
Friday ' < rwcnoon-Will,*™ Shannon.
Afternoon—john Conncllt'
SatrtrJay Afternoon— Peter Benfon.
(Volume XIII.Wlf-ll If IJ MIIMHIIH HI «"» ■
%\3edsasem.
J3sl~ ' : i** ' - »- - *- I — J u
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EYJEJSJNO. FEBRUARY 14.
/f jWr a# Monroes VISW^
at as itunCAW.
When a man become* the avowed author
of 1 publication he fubjefts himfelf, as well
is his performance, to criticism and remark.
The book now in circulation under this ti
tle if properly p*bli(hed would have made
a pamphlet of frxty-tix pages; initead of
which t appear* under the affe&td impor
tance of a targe o£tavo volume, price 150
cents, copy right secured according to law.
The new part of this publication in a po
litical point of vitw i altogether innocent
and as a literary performance it is below cri
ticrfm. Like "Randolph's vindication, it
Will die 3 natural death, leaving all who had
any agency in bringing the drformed bant
ling into life, in painful condolence over tjie
mortified vanity of the author; but the pa
pers styled " inflruHions, and
and other authentic documents" which, forir
the appendix are entitled to a different fort
of attention. Vanity»and egotism may be
derided ; hut infidelity in the execution of a
public trust (hould be exposed and puniflied.
Of the many absurdities, with which the
" view " abounds one will be fufficicnt to
(hew the anthor's regard toprincipie andeon
fiftency. Among the objections to Mr.
Jay's appointment to tlie court of London,
he that in hi« opinion it wa3 un
eonditutional to confer upon a judge an
Executive office, and under this impreflion
he as Senator fortbe State of Virgin!* vot
ed against the nomination. A short time af
terbeing dill a member ofthat branch of the
Legi'flature, the Secretary of State inform
ed him that the President was defirotis to a
vail the public of his services in a similar ap
pointment. The conditutiortal fcriiples of
the Senator were thus lulled to reft, he " re
ctircd the communicatioa with a due degrteof
fenjibility," for the honor irfttnded ; and in a
f<w days with that gi*afceful blnfhing modes
ty for which the democrats are so remarka
ble, returned an aflurance of his perfefr wil
lingness to accent the invitation. To com
rt.on observers, not (killed in the subtlety of
diftindions, it would seem as uucondituti
onal to nominate a member of the Legisla
ture, as a member of the Judiciary to an ex
ecutive office { and if a violation of the
conditution at all, is not less an offence in
bin who accepts, than in him who confers
the appointment. It is difficult to make it
an iifftiicc in one, without admitting the o
-ther to be an accomplice. This paraxon of
principle and eotijifleniy embarked shortly as
rer, and arrived at Pari* in due time, where
In's public condaft is marked on the one
ban 1 with difrtfpefl and inattention to th*"
indru&ions .fcf the Executive, and on the
other with of meanness andfervili
ty towards the French government, which
will remain unparalclled in thehidory
of diplomatic interco'jrfe. He was regard
ed and in many respeCts treated by the
Conynlttee of public fafety as one of their
own poffce officers, and the reptile infenfi
ble of the ignominy seemed to glory tn it,
and on all occasion* fought ofporonitics of
exhibiting to the w< rld the evidences of his
own Sifgrace and ptottration.
There occurs in this publication no 111
fiance of a common refpett to the mftruc
tions of his own government, and it would
be equally difficult to find a (ingle deviation
from the orders, or what with him amount
ed to the fame thing, the w.'fhes of hisgal
lican mailers. When required by the Presi
dent to infill upon that security and refpetl
to which our treaty and the rights of neu
trality entitled us, he avoided to do so for
months, upon frivolous pretences; and at
length left it upon a footing the mod humil
iating to an independent nation. It will be
a fortunate circumflance if our envoys now
»t Paris, with their acknowledged talents
ind virtues (hall be able to relieve us from
the humiliation and cmbarraffment to which
the crooked politics cf this man and his par
ty have reduced the United States. We
talk of Randolph's baseness—os Blount'*
treason of Lyon's brutality; but what
a*e these when contracted with the crimes
of their co-ordinate and co-infamous feHow
patriot, minister Monroe.
Have the people of America seen the e
vidences of these crime*? No. An acau
rate knowledge of their extent and turpitude
rauft unfortunately be confined, in the na
tore of things to a narrow circle, for a time
at lead; some of them will be seen in the
perusal of his book, but there is another
fenfif whose monitions are faithful, and with
respect to the people at large, not less to be
depended upon : we have feltj and will long
continue to feel the consequences of this
nWn's perfidious condescension and apoftacy.
Let dismission from effice, impeachment,
,and expulsion be still regarded as the proper
punishments fcr the pigmies of sedition,
who have merited them ; # but, let allthe ex
ecration of an incensed and injured nation,
be referred for the arch traitor who, upon
afalary of 9000 Ds. a year,could plot mifchiefs
hi* country, three thonfand miles
©
from home.
What then are the crimes of which he is
aecufed ? It would require a volume larger
than hi* own to record them. They are of
a nature neither to be palliated nor jollified,
they evidence a want of attachment to the
country which gave him birth; they mani
fcfl a preference to the in t ere (I of a foreign
nation ; and by uniting personal ingratitude
with political perfidy, operate alike to el
tablifh the depravity of his head and heart.
It is nAt neceflary to rcfort to the archievel
of (late, for reason* to juflify hi* dismission
from public ferviee, and from the confidence
of the Prcfident; hit own coufeflions furnidl
ample evidence of guilt, and from the p:g
---m of hi* own book (hall he be condemned.
Knaves may fecrctly attempt to vindicate,
and fooli may publicly (even on the floor of
Congrcfs) eulogizebut the unerring judg
ment of "a Aream like public," will ulti
mately (lamp upon Monroe, and his co-ad
jutors the indelible infamy of having brought
this (not their) country to its present date
of jeopardy and agitat'ion. Pusy offenders
against society, with the hope of evading
puni(hment, seldom make public coofeffioos
of their crimes; it is not so with Mr. Mon
roe. His mind familiarized with political
vice, and nerved to desperation, braves the
censure of good men, and boldly appeals to
the ignorance, and passions of hi* party far
protection. Will he find that protection ?
Yrs! to their (hamebe it said he will.. The
mantle of faflion the Lyon
of Vermont, is broad enough to save the
of Virginia ; but this shield, impreg
nable as it may be iii rtfpeft to legal punilh
ment, cannot feeure him from the indigna
tion of the enlightened, and Anuricart part
of the community. They will read Jiis
book; they will judge for themfrlvts, and
must condemn. In thatbook are to be trac
ed the wiles of cool and deliberate ireafon.
There (lalks an American minister in the
undisguised habit of a French Jacobin ;
there are tht outlines of plans by which he
attempted, and still attempts to poison the
folirtes of public confidence, to undermine
the political foundations of our country ;
" to prostrate its'charSflef and bed interests
before the idol of French power," and like
a minion, faithful to the cause of his new
masters, there are to be seen fpecimcns of
the insidious machinations By which he hop
ed to coerce the government under whose
authority be a£ted, to embark the fortunes
of the United States upon the bottom of
anarchy and irreligion.
The firft charge that need be diftinSly
noted for the purpose of establishing the
justice of the preceding remarks, will be
found in a paper styled " observations sub
mitted to the consideration of the diploma
tic members of the committee of public
fafety." Appendix, page 82. This " loy
al report" is admitted by some of the po
litical friend* of Mr, Monroe, to be an of
ficious mifreprrfentation at lead, unauthor
ised by inftruiStions, or circumstances and
highly rtprehenfible. It may be shewn to
be unjujlijinblc. He knew that loan* in Eu
rope could not at time be obtained by
the American government for their own
plirpofcs, without submitting to extraordi
nary facrifices. He knew that beside the
debts in Holland, the United State* then
owed upwards of two million* , of dollars to
the Frenah nation, and that every peffible
etertion was making to discharge it. He
knew that our difputet with the Barbary
powers wefe unsettled, and that great ex
pence would necessarily attend their adjust
ment. -He knew that it wa* the feafe. of
the people, and the ardent desire of govern
ment to adopt some fyftematic.9nd efficar
c'ious plan to extinguish tht public debt of
all descriptions. He knew that there was
a party in congrcfs (for he had been a con
spicuous member of that party hinrfelf)
who calumniated the gevcrnmcnt for not'
having proceeded more fuceefsfully in the
accomplilhnient of that great work. 'He
knew that onr pecuniary refolirces in a fet
tled order of things, were barely equal to
the public' demands ; that the operation*
»f the treasury had been for year* greatly
impeded by the expences attending an In
dian war-unufuaily expensive ; that the -wheels
of government at that moment were almojlflop
ped by means of the wedern infurreftion ;
heknew, for he ha* published it to the world,
appendix page 251, that hit. own induc
tions contained these remarkable and im
pressive words, " we are unable to give her'
aids of men ar money." And yet knowing
this to be our situation, he was so loft to
allfenfeof duty, as to invite the committee
of public fafety to press us on the score of
money. He even laid the plan, and hum
bly-requeded permission to aid citizen Adet
with private advice on the fubjefl. Had
no other objection exided againd the mea
sure, it mud have occurred to a mind not
wholly blinded by partiality, of fomet'hing
■,wrirfe, that a loan of five millions of dollars
from an individual date, or from the Unit
ed States under the then circumdance* of
Europe, would have amounted to a mani
fed departure fronl the principles of neu
trality. The perception of Mr. Monroe,
and his friends would probably have been
awakened with refpeft to its impropriety,
had Mr. f Jay'» treaty (lipulated a loan of
one tenth part of the amount, to the king
of England for a similar purpose ; that is
to fay, for the purpose of carrying on the
war in which the authoritic* ox this coun
try had engaged to be neutral. But, read
er, reserve your indignation for the sequel !
It is no that jacobins are not
to be truded in money matters. In the
fame document, Mr. Monroe explicitly ad
mits (what it (hould be the pride of every
American to deny) that' the United States
are capable of submitting to dismember
ment. These are his traitorous coneefiions.
'■Would it not (fpeakingof a peace with
Spain and England) leave those powers free
to attack us united, and in that situation
would not Franc* be forced again to em
bark in the war, or tamely look en andfet our
difmcmherment." And this too by powers
who (according to Mr. Monroe) were at
that time bowed down by the decrepitude
of corrupt monarchical edabliihments, and
with fear and trembling imploring peace,
and forgivenef* from France. I* this then
the tenure'by which we hold our union and
independence ? Is there another man within
the United States so bale as not to disown
the degrading sentiment ? When the proper
time arrives, our enemies abroad and all
their abettor* at home will be once, more
taught that the'energies of America are
not extind, as has been falfely inlinuated ;
the eagle i* not dead, but in a (late of re
pofc, and when provoked to aCtion will not
prove the less formidable for having had a
few year's reft. Did Great-Britain .futju
gatc and dilmcmbcr these infant dates wbjn
they counted little m»>re than two mlllitJM j
of fouls without Tiipnity'~and a go- I
verntnent ? And now that we have more ,
than treble that number, is it possible that j
a man wbofe foul is not contaminated ,by 1
French influence, fhmild ferioufiy suppose i
that we hare any thing ta apprehend from |
Spanish aggrefiieri ? The true defence of a j
nation, c»nfi!ls in the vir.tue and union of j
their citizens ; and independence is to be '
preserved, not by douching before a so- ,
power however formidable, .and pur
chasing hpr favor by difgraceful condefcen- j
fion ; but by doing juflkc, aiiif requiring
from others the like deportment: This is
the language of America, and the man ca
pable of speaking, and feeling .differently,
was wifely determined by the President un
fit to be his representative abroryl Was
Prussia difmemberedj when her brave old
king (dei iving pecuniaiy aid only from a
i single ally) withdood for seven years the u
nited efforts of the great powers of Europe ?
No ; he ultimately vanqtiiflied them all ;
and in this glorious manner will th/r United
States fuccefsuilly refill the attacks- of our
enrmies from whatever quarter they may
come.. In ♦hi* manner too, wife men know
and honed men hope, thjt England, in the
present crisis of her affairs, will repel the
projefted invasion. It has long been the
unfortunate policy of that nation to bur
then ht'rfelf with allies ; but Ihe is now
clear of them, and htr gallant and enlight
ened font will not fail to ad worthy of
themfelvea.
The next charge that Mr. Monroe's con-,
feflions fnrnifh against himft,lf is, that in a
fries of 'etters written from Paris (in the
character of minister plenipotentiary to the
executive anthfirity ®f the United States)
regardless of the principles of neutrality
established by the President, and approved
by the legislature, he advised a resort to
hostile measures againfl Great-Britain, after
being officially apprised that our differences
with that court were amicably adjusted by
treaty, snd even after he had been inform
ed that the treaty was ratified.
Out of the cloud of evidence furm'fhed
by himfelf in support of this#harge it will
;be fufficient tOr notice two only requesting
the reader to pause.a moment ; to recolleft
that the treaty when ratified became a law
of the land ; to observe the refpeftive dates
of these communications ; to consider their
contents; to refleft upon the confeqiiences
which must in all probability have attended
the adoption of his nefarious
then to determine the difference between his
offence and that for which the ex-senator
Blount (lands impeached. War was not
produced in. either cafe j but it was the ob-
Jest aimed at in both. Yet the leaders of
the fa'ftion have the unblushing effrontryto
assert that they have been the friends of
peace. Hear then the " precious confefi
onj, of Mr, Monroe whom they have rot
yetr call off; they,muft own him with all the
eonfufion and fhanje with which bis works
have covered them.
Prom Mr. Monroi to the Secretary of State.
Paris, June 26th, 1795.
Appendix, page 180. " Peace is a blef
fihg which ought nqt to be wantonly thrown
away 5 but whether fufficient facrifices hive
net been already made, to preserve it, and
the time arrived when the duty 'we owe to
ourselves, and the refpeft ,which is due to
the opinion of the world adtrtonifh us that
the insults and injuries are to be no longer
barne, aad that .we ought to seek redress by
again appealing to arms, and putting the is
sue of our cause upon the event of war;
is a point which will no doubt be wifely de
cided by those who have a right to decide it."
This extraft is no otherwise important,
than a* it shews in unequivocal terms the
bias;and operations of the writers mind at
the time he supposed the treaty to be under
cpnfideration in this conntny, and the politi
cal view* of the party in the Senate who
for three weeks opposed the ratification
which they well knew would give a mortal
wound to American jacobimfm, and all the
sanguinary and deftruftive measures which
were prepared to follow its soot-steps. It
may too be fairly presumed that if such were
thecontents of the ex-minister's official com
munications ; he was not Wanting in those
of a private and less formal nature, of which
it is known that about the commencement
of that eventful feflion of th»»Senate great
numbers arrived.- The next extraft esta
blishes his guilt, and in conjunftion with
the preceding, proves inconteftibly, that his
opinions were derived from the mofl profli
gate and polluted fouree—the French cabinet.
Frtm Mr. Monroe to the Secretary of State.
, Paris, September 10th, 1795.
Appendix, page 210. After recommend
ing with great solicitude that the adjust
ment of eur differences with England, (at
a time when the terms of adjnftment had
been fettled by treaty) should be left to
France, he proceeds,
" But to secure success by embarking this
government with full zeal in our behalf, and
finking terror into England, it will be ne
cessary to lay hold *f her property within the
United S/alet, take the polls, aad even in
vade Canada. This would not only secure
to us our claims upon Britain, and efpecial
.ly if we likewise cut up her trade by priva
.tters ; but by making a decisive and power
ful diversion in favor of France promote and
very essentially a general peace." A diver
sion in favor of France ! That was the fa
vorite objeft of Mr. Monroe, and if attain
ed, facrifices of American iutered and A
merican honor were in his estimation matters
of "inferior concern. The treaty thus pro
posed to be annulled for the purpose of ma
king a diversion infavor of Fraime wasfigned
■at London on the 19th of November, 1794
—the Senate met on the Bth of J*ne, '95,
and advised its ratification, and such are the
vagaries of our nvaifter's heated brain on
the 10th of September following. Whither
has all this heroism and military ardor
flown ? Since returning to America by some
llrange regeneration not publ cly understood,
he appeais to be a disciple of the meek and
lowly General Coilot, and like him preach
es only the tloflrine of peace and humiliati- I
on. In the true style of French fraternity 1
| and devotion they talk of the impiety of
I resistance under the chafleuing rod of the <
I terrible republic, and of the bleflings which
j attend fnbmiflion. The wrath of our five
j foverelgns is jufl, and can only be appeased
! by the patience and forbearance which these
I authorized teachers inculcate.
, Such are th( mifltonaries which Paris the
' great temple of infurreftion and tumult has
I sent to this country ; their views are to dif
traft-our public councils—to preach peace,
peace to an unfufpefting people whom they
have long deluded, when there is 110 peace
—to calumniate and detrail from the well
esrned fame of the ill u(t riot; s Wafhington —
to aecufe the firm and faithful Adams of
favoring royalty, and of making war speech
es for the purpose of wounding that liberty
which the services of his lite have so eminent
ly contributed to ellablifh ; and as if their
enmity against the people of the United
States whom they profefs " to adore" W33
not confined to this world ; they have vain
ly conceived the project of undermining the
religious opinions of our country. Citi
zens of America ! Beware of the political
as well a» religious hcrcfies of these mission
aries ; they are foreigners ; they are wolves
in sheep's cloathing ; they belong not to us !
CONGR E 5 S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 2J.
The bill providing for the widows and
orphans of certain deceased officers, was
read the. third time and passed.
A communication was laid before the
house by the Speaker from the Secretary of i
the Treasury, inclosing sundry documents
prepared by th* late commissioner of the re
venue, in confequenceof a resolution of the
house of the 6th of January, 1797, re
quiring to be laid before the house every
session, within ten days after its meeting, a
statement of the net produce of the internal 1
Revenues, the fajaries of the collectors, &c. j
for the year proceeding- The Secretary '
apologizes for not having made the commu- j
sication fooner.—lt was ordered to be
printed.
Mr. S. Smith presented a petition from
the ptinters of the daily papers in Baltimore,
eompla'ning of the irregular mannerin which
they receive the. Philadelphia newspapers,
owing, as they suppose, to the large quan
tity sent by the pott, and praying that they
may be allowed to receive them free of poll
age in the ordinary way in which letters are
received.
Mr. S. Smith movet ifiat this petition be
referred to the committee on the fubjeiS of
Poll-Offices and Po'ft*Roads; but on Mr.
Thatcher's (the chairinan of that commit
tee) faying, that he believed the Post-mas
ter Genetal had already taken means to re
medy the grfevance complained of, the peti
tion was referred to him.
A message was received from the Senate,
informing the house, that they had passed
the bill for the relief of Willianv Alexander,
and the bill for appropriating a sum of mo
ney for holding a treaty with the Indians.
The committee of enrolment, reported
these bills duly enrolled, and they received
the signature of the Speaker.
Mr. R. Williams presented the petition
of F. W. Eldridge, praying for compensa
tion for services of his father, who died in
the service of the United States.—Referred
to .the committee of claims.
Mr. D. Foster from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report-on the
petition of John M. Taylor, who prayed
for the payment of certain warrants. On a
motion to have this report read a feeond
time for the purpose of being agreed to by
the house, Mr. Giles expressed a wish that
it might for the present lie upou the table.
Agreed.
On motion of Mr. Harrifon, the unlnifh
ed b'lfinef* of the bill for altering the man
ner of entering {tills, was postponed till
Monday.
A message was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, iu the following
words:
" Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Reprefentativet,
" The inclosed Memorial from the com
mifiioners (appointed under an aft of the U
nited States entitled, " an aft for establish
ing the temporary and permanent feat of go
vernment of the United States) representing
the situation and circumstances of the city
of Washington, I take this opportunity
to present to both houses of the Legislature
and recommend to their Consideration. Al
exander White, Esq. one of those Commis
sioners, is now in this c'ity, and will be able
to give to Congress, or any of their Com
mittees, any explanations or further inform
ation, which the fubjeft may require."
"JOHN ADAMS."
United States, Feb. 23, 1798.
The message and the memorial accompa
nying it (which prays further aflittance from
Congress in behalf of the Federal City") were'
ordered to be printed, and were referred to'
a committee of the following' gentlemen,
viz : Mtffrs. Craik, Sitgr'eaves, Brent, Stan
ford, Varnum, Allen, and Sumpter.
Mr. Gallatin moved that the unfinifhed
business of the bill providing means of
Foreign Inteicourfc, be pollponed, for the
purpose of taking up the report of the com
mittee of Privileges.—Agreed.
The Speaker having read the report,
! which was a Tecommendation to disagree to
the resolution for expelling Mr. Grifwuld
, and Mr. Lyon.
: Mr. Davis said he hoped the house would
1 disagree to the report of their committee of
r privileges ; after this was doue, the refolu
r tion could be altered iu such a manner as
: gentlemen might think proper.
, Mr. Dent taHcd for the yeas and Nays,
i —Agreed t« be taken.
Mr. Sitgreavea said there were many aoa«
fiderations which (Vould incline the houie t«
come to a deciSoa upon tbe present bulineft
without entering into any unnecessary dif
ctiflion ; and there were other* whieh (hould
lead them to aroid coming to an immediate
decision. He (hould, therefore move that
the further consideration of this fubjeft be
postponed until the 4th of March, 1799*
Mr. Nicholas called for the yeas and nays
upon this question ; which being agreed t®
were taken as follows : ,
YEAS.
Me(T. Allen, Bartlett, Bayard, Brooks,
Bullock, Champlin, Chapman,, Cochran,
Coit, Dana, A. Foster, D. Foster, J. Free :
man, Gltn. Goodrich, Gordon, Hartley,
Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Ly
man, Morn'#, Otis, Isaac Parker, Reed,
Sewall, Shepard; Simiiekfon,
Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Sprague, Thatcher,
Thomas, Thompson, Van Allen, J. Wil
liams.—3B.
NAYS.
Baer, Baldwin, Baird, Benton,
Blount, Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, T. Clai
borne, W. Claiborne, Clay, CUpfOn, Craik,
Davis, Dawfon, Dent, Evans,
Findley, Gallatin, Giles, Gillefpie, Gregg,
Hanna, Harper, Harper, Havens,
Heifter, Holmes, Jones, Livingfton, L<?cke,
Machir, Macon, Matthews, M'Clenachan, .
M'Doweil, M Hedge, New, Nicholas, Skin
ner, S. Smith, W. Smith, Sprigg, Stan,
ford, Sumpter, Tillinghaft, A. Trigg, J.;
Trigg, Varnum, Venable, Wadfworth, R,
Williams.—s3.
The motion for postponement being loft
the question on agreeing tothe report of the
Committee recurred.
Mr. Bayard believed it would not be in
order to call for a division of the question.
The refolucion implicated two ptrfon, which
I he thought improper. If the report of thi
committer was, however, difagretd to, he
j supposed it would then be in order to move
for a division of the question. He (hould,
therefore, vote against the report as he wifli*
ed the cases to be separately considered, a»
they, stood on dt'ilinft ground, and were.not
I attended with the fame circumstances ; and
| reasoning from analogy, he knew of no in
stance in a Court of Jullice, where twoper
• foris had ever been included in the fame
charge when iheir crimes were different. If
the iituation of both these gentlemen had
bfen'the the fame there might have been
propriety in coupling them together ; but
: as this was not the cafe, he was opposed to
j taking an opinion upon both together.
Mr. M'Dowell thought it would be pro»
per to take the fame course in this business
as was taken in a former cafe. He moved,
therefore, th.it the report be read a second
time, for the purpose of committing it to
a committee of the whole house.
Mr. Gordon was opposed to this mode
of proceeding. Every one knew the question
and were as well prepared to decide upon
it now, as they would be after going into a '
committee upon it.
Mr. Giles thought it would comport
more with of the house, to decide
this business without going into a committee
of the whtole, a# he believed every one had
made up his mind upon it. If gentlemen in
tended by the course heretofore taken to
raise the dignityofthe house, he thought they
had deceived themselves ; forhe believed tbe
houfp was never in a left dignified attitude
than during that discussion.
MrJ McDowell thought the mode he had
pointed out neeeffary, for the fake of uni
formity ; but, as other gentlemen feenjed to
think it unnecessary, he would withdraw hi»
motion.
Mr. R. Williams wiflitd to know whe
ther it would be in order to amend the ..re
port ©f the committee-os privileges ;or to
suggest the propriety of difagreiing to' it,
for the purpose of fubftitutiitg a different
punifhmend from that proposed, viz. that
the offending members ihould be repfiman
ded by the Speaker in the presence of tbe
house ? He believed that a punilhment of
this kind would fatisfy many gentleman who
did not wilh to expel the members, but wh»
at the fame time, did not wish they should
go unpuni/hed.
The Speaker said that motion would be
in order after the report of the committee
was decided upon.
Mr. Gallatin remarked, that if the report
was agreed to, the resolution for an expulsion
would of course be negatived, and then any t>-
ther proposition would be in order ; and, on the
other hand, if the report was disagreed to, the
resolution would be before them, and open to
amendment. Mr. G. said he rose to make an
observation upon what feH from the gentleman
from Delaware (Mr. Bayard). That gentler-m
had said he would vote against the report,
raufe he wished to distinguish between the two
members. The reason which he gave, though
he might have good reason? for his vote, did
not appear to him to be correfk. That gentle
man seemed. to suppose that the fa<ss for whicli
the two members were to be expelled, were of
fences of the fame nature, and committed on
the Tame day. What related to the previous
condufl of the member from Vermont, was
hot now under consideration. J* order to have
that cendu& before them, it would be neeffa
ry that a reconCderation of it fhottld be moved
by a member who voted against that member's
expnlfion, and leeonded by another member who
voted on tie fame fide of the question. The
argument of the gentleman from Delaware,
theiefore, did not apply He said, he Ihould
himfelf vote in favour of the report of the com
mittee of privileges ; as he wa» against expel
ling either of the gentlemen".
Mr. agreed with the gentlf-rsan last up
in liis conclusions ; but be d d nor si cin rightly
to have uudtiftood the argument of the gentle
ins n from Delaware. If the gentleman from
Pennfylvanla was acqu tinted with legal princi
ples, with'eflablifhed principles relative to pun
ithn e t, he mull know that no perfsnt can be
charged jointly with an iffeiice, except jointly
guilty, and event they had mutually agreed
t;> commit the offence. The resolution in its
ore Tent form, th refore, offended agiinft eftab
;i(htd maxims of p-opriety.
Vr. Kayard said, the statement of (he gentle
nriu frcm Perinfylvania was not corre't. He
had stated that the offences of the two members
were the fame in c>cumftar.c<e. ande mm ttrd
at the fame time. He apprehtnded the two cas
es were very diMinl) ; as by the deptdit.ons be-fore the heuft, it appeared th.it the menjher tm
from Conneflieut was committed before the H,
house was calh d to order, and that the offence f,
of the nember from Vermont was committed • J
after the houf* was called to order. 'I he argu- f
ment most depended upon in a former cafe, a- 4
gainst the expulsion of the member from Vcr- y
wiont, was that wh ch inGfled that the ail of
yiolence complained of, l>*ing committed when t
the house -was not in fcflion, was not a cause of
expulfion'. lfth'S arpiment had weight it that
time, it ought also to have weight in the present
cafe. It woulsl 'therefore, be the height of in- J
justice to blend the two cases together - r since mit
there might be cause for expelling one meraber,
and not the other.
The Speaker ohferved that evtry thing which ' "
had been said with ref| eil to a division of theJJut' ut
qucllicn was out of order, as it eould not bedi- 111 1
vided. He would also remark, in order to
ihorten the debate, that tie house zuat nit celled rea '
to order <wben the Jlrnke was madehy the mem- a * )l '
her from Vermont, upon tbe member from Con- caß
KeSieut without tb( bar cf the house■ C "F
Mr Hirper alked if the report of the commit- Alt
tee (hould not be agreed to, whether the rsfo
lution might not then be agreed to ? p ve
The Speaker replied, it could not be divided ; in 8
but a separate resolution might be brought for- of ' 1
ward. cor
Th* queft'oo on agreeing'to the report of the *Pt
committee, which recommended a disagreement abo
to the resolution, for an expulsion of the two Ly
mrmhers, was then takeri by yeas and nays as wit
follow : f I
TEAS.
MefTrs. Allen, Baldwin, Bartlett, Br;nt, ' '
Brooke, Bullock, Cabell, Champlin, Chap-
man, T. Claiborne, W. C. Claiborne, Clay,
Clopton, Cochran, Coit, Dana, Da vfon, rae
Elmcndorf, Findley, A. Foster, D. Fofttr, in
J jFawler, J. Freeman, Gallatin, Giles, Gil- Mi
Jefpie, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon. Gregg,
Hanna, Harrifan, Hartley, Havens, Hind- i
wan, Hofmer, Imlayv Jones, f .
Locke, Lyman, Macon, M'Clenachan, jy
M'Dowell, 'Milledge, Morris. New, Ni- .be
cholas, Otis, Isaac Parker, R«ad, Rutledge, j his
Sewall, Shepard, Sinnitkfon, Sitgrcaves,
Skinner, N. Smith, S. Smith, W. Smith, I G .'
Sprague, Sprigg, Stanford, Sumpter,
Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson, A.Trigg,
Van Allen, Va+num, V}?nable, J.Wi liams, „f,
R. WilVama—73. on
NATS. M
Meflrs. Baer, Bard, Bayard, Benton, "'I
Blount, Bryan, Burgess, Craik, Dent, Da
vis, Evans,Grove, Harper,Heifter, Holmes,
Kittera, Machir, Matthews, Tillinghaft, n0
J. Trigg, Wadfworth—2l. th
Tbe resolution for an expulsion having , in<
been disagreed to, •
Mr- R. Williams proposed a resolution in ,r
the following words:
" Resolved, That Roger Grifwold and "
Matthew Lyon, for riotous and d'forderly i,;
behaviour in this house, are highly cenfura- ,h
ble, and that they be reprimanded by the m
Speaker in the presence of the house." th
Mr. Harper moved the previous question
upon this resolution. He did it, he said, 1
~ upon this groundT The hoiift had just de
cided, and they had lately decided in ano
ther instance, that disorderly conduA (hall
not be punilhed by expulsion ; and it was
his opinion that no less punifhmer.t than ex- T
pulfion ought to be lnfliiaed, as he was on- ,n
willing to diminish the reprehenftve power
of the house, by inflifting what he thought f
inadequate punilhment for the offence. If „■
there were any gentlemen who thought thi» ai
conduct excusable, and tliat it ought not to n
b« punilhed, they would, of coutfe, vote J" 3
I in favour of the previous question; and those
who thought with him, that both ought to ?
be expelled, would also vote in favour of it. f (
Mr. Nicholas called for the yeas and nays r ,
upon this queftiVn.—Agre«d to be taken. I<
Mr. Gallatin said, by the gentleman from ' &
S. Carolina's having moved the previou* c
question, he had excluded any discussion ] *
upon rhe merits qf the main question. Mr. t
G. wilted some fcafons might be given why t ,
the main question ought not to be put. r
Those given by the gentleman from S. Car- si
olina were applicable to the resolution itfelf; f
they were reasons why toe should vote against f
the resolution, but they did not strike him
as reasons why the question (hould not it all f
be t3ken. v I
The previous question was then put in this b
form, " Shall th ■ main quejlion ( viz. the refol- si
ution for reprimanding the offending mem- F
bers) noiu.beput?" And the yeas and nays ( v
were taken as fallow: t
YEAS. ,
Mcffrs. Baldwin, Bard, Benton, Blount, b
Brent, Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, T. Clai- c
borne, W. C. Claibor»e, Clay, Clopton, '
Davis, Dawfon, Elmendorf, Findley, Fow- '
ler, N. Freeman, Gallatin, Giles. Gillef*
(pie, Gregg. Hanna, Harrifon, Havens, ,
Heifter. Holmes, Jones, Livingflon, Locke, f
Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, Mill- \
1 edge, New, Nicholas, Skinner, S. Smith, I
HV. Smith, Sprigg, Stanford, Sumpter, '
A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Varaum, Venable, #. "
Williams— 47.
n J rs. ,
MefTrs. Allen, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard,
Brookes, Bvllock, Champlin, Chapman, <
Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana, Dent, Evans,
A. Foster, D. Foster, J. Freeman, Glen,
Goodrich, Gordoa, Grove, Harper, Hart-
U*, Hindman, Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera,
Lyman, Machir, Matthews, Morris, Otis,
Isaac Parker, Reed, Rutledge, Sewall,
Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, ,
Sprague, Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson,
Till nghaft, Van Allen, Wadfworth, J.
-Williams—4B.
On motion of Mr. Harper, the unfinifh
ed business, of the bill providing the means
of Foreign Intercourfc, was poltponed till
Monday. •
Mr. Livingflon then moved the ordet of
i the day on the report of the committee of
I the whole on the bill for the relief and pro
teAien of American Seamon ; when the a
mendmrnt requiring masters of veffeU to
give bond for the return of their seamen, or
to render a proper account of them, came
*gaia under discussion, but some difference
of opinion arising upon the propriety of the
claofc, a motion was made to recommit the
bill to a committee of the whole, which
was carried, and it was made the order of
the day for Monday.
Adjourned till Monday.
Kipor tpf tkc Co.MMlrTtt e/i'RiTil.iiG. s,
to inborn was referm!, on the ibtb infiant, a
Motion for the Expulsion of Roger
Rriswoid and M.\TrH«W Lyo«, Mem
bers of this Hi. use, for riotous and dif orderly
behaviour, committed in the Hcufe. Ordered
te He on the table the loth February, 17,98. —
Published by order oft :e lloufe of Rep refentail-vet
( Continued from yejierdaf s Gazette-J
Mr. Imlay's Testimony. (
James H. Imlay being requcfted by thr com
mittee of privilefts to coir>ra , ..nicate bis recol
leflion of the affair between Mr. Lyon and Mr.
Grifwold, fays, rhat he came to the hall on
Thursday morning the 15th inftaut, a ftw mi
nutes after eleven o'clock i found Mr. Grifwoll 1
in tbf hall, fitting in the chair usually occupi
ed by Mr. Hindman, apparently engaged in
reading a letter. Mr. Lyon came into 'the hall
about three minutes after this deponent, with a
cane in his haad, and took the feat lte usually oc
cupies, or the one next to it on the north fide.
After calling his eyes jmnnd the hall for a few
fetonds, he appeared to be employed in looking
over some papers Wing oil his dtfk. During
ing this time, which might have been the space
ef between three or four minutes, Mr. Grifwold
continued reading his letter. At leagth he
appeared to have finilhed the reading, and was
about folding.it up, when he discovered Mr.
Lyon. At this tune this deponent was Handing
within a yard, or thereabouts, of Mr. Grifwold,
who immediately ou oblerving Mr. Lyon, walk
ed to the recess under the window on the V;rth
fide of the speaker's chair, where he had placed
his cane; taking this in his hand, he walked
to theoppolite fide "f the hal , direilly 1* front
of the speaker'< feat, to the pla e where the
member from Vermont va l -fitting. and whtn
in front of >"r Lvon (truck turn with the cane.
Mr. Lyon »p'near«d to difcevw Mr. Grifwold
about the instant his arm wj> r.iifed to ftnkf,
and at the utterance of fern; exprrflion by M'.
Giilw Id, which this deponent did nit exart'y
ear, but supposed to he " ( Ynu rafonl-" Mr.
Lynn, when he received the Wow, appeared to
jbe in the ail of rising. Mr Grifwold r peated
1 his blow- Mr. Lyon rose, came out from his
| feat without his cane, advanced towptfs Mr.
I Grifwold, as if with an endravour to
.with him, which Mi. Grifwcld avoided by
ftrikingliim or putting him cfl" with his left
hand, and repeated his blows with his cane, as
often as tenor eleven times, fometi:oes ftri'king
on hit head, and fometinac. o.vrr the (h iulder>.
Mr. Lyon ap;'eaed new todefift from attempt
ing to close in w th Mr- Grifvvold, and endea
voured to gain the nor'h-weft fide or com r
of the fp-aker's feat. This he dd, Mr Grif
wold repeating hit Wows. Mr. Lyon being
now near the stove, on the fame tide 6 1 ' the
chair as jult mentioned, feir. d the tongs stand*
. ing fcy tho stove. Mr Grifwold then inmiedi
. stely cloftd with him, and after a fh«rf fcuffle,
•r eonteft, Mr Lyon was thrown by Mr. Grif
wold, who fell with hiro, and with one hand
endeavoured to prevent Mr-Lyon from using the
tongs to his injury, anil wi'h the other flruck
him once or'twice in the face. They were
then feparatrd by the interference M fevtfral
members. What happened without the bar at
the weft end of the hall, this deponent did r.ot
fee. J. H. IMLAY,
Sworn and fwbfcribed the
17th February, 1798.
Coram, Reynold Keen.
Mr. fames Gillefpie's Teflomany.
James Gillefpie being sworn, faith, that on
Thurf'ay morning th* ijth instant, he came
into the house of representatives after prayers,
and the speaker had taken the chair; that whilst
he was warming nimfelfat the fire next on the
. right of the door, he saw Matthew Lyon, the
member from Vermont, come to the letter bag,
1 and was putting in some letters, as he this depo
-1 nenti pafled him yoing into the house ;*that he
. saw also Roger Grifwol 1 fitting in a chair a small
\ diftanee from the fpeakcr's feat, with a large
walking-stick Handing near him ; that I wer.t
' immediately to the alphabet Mid made search
for my letters and as f turned to my feat to
1 read them, I hear ' a »oif# of blows, &c. on
looking that way, I saw Roger Grifwold strike
I f Matthew Lyon, who was in his place near thr
j centre of the front desk opposite to the fpeak
j er's feat, where he was then fitting ; that as
! Mr. Lyon wa» getting round the deflc he re
' ceived two or three blows, and on attempting
r to close in with Mr. Gnfwold, he, M-r. Lyon
» 1 received several severe strokes with the Itirk
• from Mr. Grifwold. That the deponent con
. ceiying, from the complexion of the affair,
that it was a preconcerted plan, did not
interfere, but aflted the Spe ker to eall to order,
| | which he declined, although the call was loud
from different parts of the house. That as Mr.
Lyon advanced on Mr. Grifwold, he retreated
s back towards the window- near the fpcaker's
. feat, bv which Mr. Lyon became pofleffed of a
pair of tongs and struck at Mr. Grifwold, on
which Mr. Grifwold closed in with him, and
they fell, and in a little time were parted. That
Mr. Lyon exprefled a disapprobation at be ig
parted, and said as he was riling, I with 1 had
> been let alone awhile. That the deponent re
- collefls that, as he turned to his feat, he saw
Mr. Sewall, from Maflachufetts ; and on he, the
deponent, exprefiing his disapprobation of luch
» condufl, Mr. Sewall replied it wis right, for we
ought to have done them justice, and expelled
'• Mr Lyon ; to which I answered, take to your
> selves all the justice that appertains to it, and
I* went and read my letters, and heard no more
1, for some time, when looking up, I Siw Mr.
Sitgreave* going out of the lourh paflag;e, with
' a walking stick, I believe, for Mr. Grifwold ;
and then, and not before, the house was called
to order, when this deponent thinki it was more
than half part eleven o'clock.
I, JAMES GILLISPIE.
I, Sworn and fuhferibed th*
t, 17th February, 1798.
1 Coram, Reynold Keen.
1
Qutflions by Mr Sewall.
' Did not the cenveifation you suppose to
'' have happened with mc, take place when yoi
' was, and I appeared to he, agitated with the
i» confufion of the f«ene !
1, A. It was I returned to my deft to reac
[. my letters from the firft scene, and I prcfumc
somewhat agitated.
Are you in any degree pifitive of th<
woids yon state to have hea-d from me ?
" A. To the heft of my recollection, th*f<
were the words used, or they wtr* words ti
th* fame tffe'l.
as [T» le Continued."]
TO LET,
*" And poffelEan given tha lit April next,
10 TheHouie No. 258 High-street
At present •. «upi-d by V. BvTLta, Ef«|.
,e Applyto
:e Edward Shoemaker,
le No. I*7, High firjet.
Ie February 14 eod.tw
:h 1
Hyson and Young Tea
A few ehelWof excellent qualiy, for sale, cor
jcr of Secoad tod Pis* ltr«*M. D«c 16—eotf
<sa3ette. j;
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 14. ;
B L F. CTION.
B. R. MORGAN. ,1. ISRAEL.
City 2041 1498
Northern Lib. 441 "3?
Southwark 322 74-®
Bnftleton 347 10a
Blockley & Kings. 96 , t 77
DelawartCoun. 1010 360 ™
+s4° . b
4183 J
Maj.forß. R.M. 357 w
v
TRIUMPH of ORDER. S
A review of all the circumstances attend
ing the eonteft just decided, displays the si- y
nal triumph of thefriendsto order, in a light b
fplend'd i iJeed. The paltry fa&ion of pre- 0
tended republican* had left unemploytd no h
resource of art or violence that might di
rctllv or remotely contribute to forward
thfir designs. In lawless mobs they tyran- [
nically beat up the quarters of the peaceable
federalifts, anda&ually threatened with the
French code of club-lavr, every man who c
hadfirmnefs t» obey the diftates ofhisown j f
confcienee, or pursue the convidlions of his v
reason and judgment. Nor did their tuibu- (
lent and lawless pra&ices end here.—On the j t
tle&ion ground, in one of the diftridts, a 1 i
horseman, compleatly caparisoned, and arm- \ {
ed, with a drawn sword in hit hand, paraded j t
the ele&ion ground the whole day, with the i t
manifeft design of awing the weak, with the (
tremendous label '■ Israel or Death" on his j i
cap, and the raw-head and bloody bones
with a cofnn, underneath. In another dif- 1
trkil;, the dependants on Citizen Snuff,
theLrt>ir, paraded the ground with French
cockades in their hats, and armed with 1
bliidgeons. Corruption, of the fouled kind,
was carried on by fubfeription, and many
taverns were kept open for a week previous
to the eleftion, free of expence to all pre
cious republicans. By means like thefc, and
a thousand other arts, by calumnies and lies
of the fouled and moll gruundlefs nature,
this insolent phalanx of fo'idifant republicans,
appear ia the refnlt with a falfe and unbot
tomed force—-with a weight not their own.
The weather, too, unfortunately cut off ma
ny-hundred votes, which would otherwifc
j appear in the federal fide. It is a fad, ton
! remarkable to escape comment, that in the
Northern Liberties where the whole number
of taxable: amount only to 1800, that the
total amount of votes should reach the asto
nishing number of near 1600 ; while in the
city, where -the taxable* amount 'to 8000,
no more than 34.C0 votes can be drawn out.
Thi* ts drange, very drange !
i Under all these circumstances disadvanta
geous on the one hand, and the extraordina
ry and illegal steps resorted to on the other,
it is a circumstance irrefidibly evincive of
the overbearing strength of the friends of
order, that, they finally triumphed. Ani
mated by so glorious and splendid as issue 5
and ftrowg in the confidence which a good
cause so invariably inspires—let us perfevFe
with unceasing constancy, in the ways of well
doing. For by an invincible condancy and
perfevera*ee, alone can we expert to coun
tervail that daring obdinacy with which the
partisans of confufion, of treason and assassi
nation unremittingly pursue their desperate
designs, againd the comfort of society, and
against the fortunes and the lives of us all.
The Aurora fays the independent federal
eleftors of the city were bribed. It is afle
-1 ed who bribed the federal yeomen of Dela-.
ware county ? It isthus the adorers of the
people compliment their virtue and integrity
when they presume to exercise their own
I judgment in opposition to these would be
' tyrants, the exclyfive patriots.
[ COMMUNICATION.
Benjamin F. Bache, " the impartial editor
of the Aurora," since his expulsion from the
I place of a note-taker in the house of repre
sentatives, has occasionally appeared in the
gallery of the senate, for the purpefe of
giving to the public the debates of that
' body. On Friday of lad week and Mon
j day of this, the senate were occupied in
. discussing an amendment proposed by Mr.
I Tearewell to a bill regulating the proceed
: ings on impeachments, which contemplated
■ the trial of impeachment by Jury. Mr.
' Bache was present, and took notes of all
! thjt was said, and of the result when ihe
c question was taken. He has favored his
tcaders with the speech of Mr. Tazewell,
rev fed and corrsUcd by the author. But
though he pretends, when it fwits him, that
his calling as an editor, involves in it the
duty of giving the public an impartial
datemant as all that palTes in the national
n legislature ; yet he has thought it confident
u with his nice probity to fupprtfs not only all
e that was said in answer to Mr. Tazewell's
motion, hut the final result. And the pnb
d lie are not yet informed «f the fate of a
' proposition w"hich went radically to destroy
that important check on executive influence,
the power of impeachment in the house of
|- e representative«. The reason for such con
o dust will be readily seen by attending to the
votes on that quedion.—The yeas and nays
were as follows :
AYES —Meifrs. Tazewell, Mason and Jack-/
son.
NOES. —Mrfiri. Andarfon, Bloodworth,
Brown, Bingiiam, Chipman, Foster, Goodhue,
tj ' Greene, Gtinn, Hit!houfe, Hobart, Hovjrtf,
Hunter, Lawraoce, I.angdon. Latimer, Lloyd,
Live' more, '* arfhill, Martin, Paine, Read,
Rosa, Stockton, Sedgwick, Tatnall, Trecy.
Died on Thursday morning, in this city,
John Patterson Esq. of Lanlingburg,
in the 57th year of his age; formerly an
ri officer in the British army, and at the revo
f lution collector of the customs at this port.
| His remains'were this morning interred in 1 11
Christ Chprch burying gfourid, attended by | ai
a number of his former refpeflable friends g
and acquaintance e
{ Ximines, No. I. will appear on
Monday. 1 ; 1
By this day's Mail.
h
BOSTON, February 17. i<
Latejl from Europe.
now SPAIN.
We are informed, by a gentleman from -
Marblchead, of the arrival, there yesterday
morning, of capt. Hooper, in 45 days from
Bilboa, who fays it-was reported at Bilboa, 0
j before he failed, that general Buonaparte
had arrived at Paris from Italy—that he had
been complimented with a civic fead, at
which all the foreign mln Uteri had been in- 1
vited, except the envoys of the United
States! That an embargo had been laid
throughout France; and that au American
veflel, commanded by capt. Dixey of Mar
blehead, had been taken and sent into Bay
onne, aotwithdandiug (he had the so much
boaftcd of amulet, a Role d'equiage.
SPANISH DECREE.
Received by Capt. Hopkins. Tranjlated by
Mr. Sales,"]
Having read to the King the reflections
of the Board of Commerce, and having in
j formed him of other precedents, and of 1
what occurred in the former war againd I
Great Britain, his Majedy has been.pleased
: to grant permiflion, that during the actual
1 War, the commeice of Spain, .with her pof
• fefllons in America, should be carried on
I | with neutral flags, and leaving full liberty to (
i the merchant to, expedite the veflels of this ,
: description, eithtr from the licenced ports 1
1i in Spain, or from those of foreign nations. 1
! But the veflels of this lad class, mud sub- |
- mit to three conditions.
, id. That they mud pay in the ports of
1 America, besides the duties edablilhed there
i those that they would have paid, had they
, failed from Spain.
2d That they mud not carry auy of the
s articles prohibited by the regulation of free
■ commerce.
1 3d. That the returns mud be made to
l the ports of the Peninsula, without being
, fubje£tecl to any in particular. On these
, conditions we grant all the folicitationsmade
- on the fubjeft. SAABEDRA.
Further ; The King has been plcafed to
free commerce in general, from the neceflity
of loading determined quantities of foreign
' goods, that are sent to America ; and the
* Department of the Treasury in Spain, noti
r fies it to, that of Amertea, for their infor
e mation and government, in what concern*
them. GAREL.
e St. Ltrenze, Nov. 17th, 1797.
•• C»pt. Cook, from Prnvircetown, (Cape Co 4) in
form j, that a pet son who rallf himlelf G id lev, was
apprehend* d. (from a variety of circumllanccs appear
ing againd him) as being concerned in an attrocious
business, of which ihe following are tha par icuJars as
% related. A Mr. Baker with his son, wee proceeding
if into theeountry for the purpose of purchasing a farm.
They had mufterad together about 1500 dollars-—and
got nearly at far as Rochester, when, on (lopping at a
tavern,at thcclofeol the day, with inteat to pass the
$ night, they remarked :hree men who behaved in an
d extraordinary manner. They were alarmed, and
? urged the landlord to compel them to depart; but he
e replied, that from the nature of his business he was
" nrceflitatcd to entertain such as rmde, application.—
d The farmer and his son than to go to thr
next pub ; ic hou'e. which was about ia miles distance.
They had viived hut a few minutes at this 'Second
place of accommodation, when ;he three suspicious
1- entered. Thit iacieafed the fears of the hoo
eft yeoman ; he made the fame requcft to this ii»n
, holder, as to the former qne, and had much the fame
1 reply, adding however, that he aifo fufpr&ed the men
had bad intention, offered the travellers a room to
thcmfe!vcs,and the use of two pistols and a cutlass,
which were accepted ; and the familv soon after re
tired to reft. The farmer did not sleep. About mid
night a knocking was heard at the-chamber door. The
a- - farmer demanded what was wanted. It was kid that
a faddlc was left in the room, which it-was uecafTary
to have immediately. There was no laddie in the
Y riom, and the pcrions a. the door were denied en -
trance. Immediately the door was biirtt open, ami
iC the three villains appeared at the threfliold. Thefarmcr
( instantly fired and shot one. % The regaining two
contiaued to advance, when the second piilol was dif.
charged and another of'he rafca'i fell, the son at the
fame moment fl.ucfc the other a feve»e blow upon the
or forehead—and he retreated with precipitation, and for
that lime, elcaped. On looking into the oUier 100 ms
of the house, it was discovered that the villains had
e ~ murdered the landlord, previous to attacking the
chamber which held the spirited countryman and his
of lon. Tu thii effect it the account we have heard.
at
n _ Yesterday, Samuel Cooper, one
j„ of the members from this town, resigned
: r> hit feat in the House of Reprefentatires.
_ d d " NEW-YORK: February 12.
[ r . IMPORTANT.
A /l On monday arrived in town on theirwajr
h e to Congress, ttfo Chiefs of the Cochnewaga
u'g Tribe of Canada Indians, with fire other
]1 Northern-Tribe Chiefs. They inform that
ut Col Brandt, ef the Six Nations, had sent
iat out three Runners into the different Tribes
}, e to the North, for the purpose of inviting
s a l them to a confederated Council at the Firc
ial Place of the Mohawks. Among the reft,
;n t Messengers were sent to the Cochnewagas
all for this purpose, with a Black Wampum
pj Belt, whose answer was, " If C«1 Brandt,
!b. or the Mohawks, wilh a Council with us,
' a they should have met us at our own Fire
0y Place, and not have called us from home."
tc% The Meflengers went away with this an
of fwer, but returned again with the Black
>n- Belt, and procured a meeting of the middlt
he agedandyounger Chiefs, whtn they " open
ty, ed the top of the business," which, they
fay, appeared to be fraught with mifchief
:kJ agaiiift the United States. They proposed
to the Cochnewagas, that they should fell
, ' 1 » their lands which they now pofl'efs near the
U( ;' territory of the United States, and oiore
' over the Lake further within th? British
jj' territory. The Cochnewagas observed that
they enjoyed peace a«d plenty roupd
their own Fire-Places and that they would
ty, not take up the Hatchet against the United
rg, States. These Chiefs further fay, had the
an Belt been mixed with white, or had it been
iro- wholly red, or altogether white, it wonld
rt. have indicated peaceable intentions, but b«-
lag entirely Black Intimated tfifeht'ef. TVy
are aow on their vrav to Philadelphia, td
give information to Omgrefa of the intend
ed combination of the Indian*. They fay
their nation confirts of foo Warriors, frn"t
16 to 45 years of age. They have travelled
yoo miles on foot, at their own expence, 10
communicate this information.
This was lianJed us by a gentleman who
had several interviews with them, but it
is probable this bulintfs will be mere fully
developed to the Exectitive,through which
channel we may (hortly e*pe& it.
NEW-THEATRb'.
On Monday, 26th February, 1795,wi1l be prefect*
cd the last new comedy, called
TftE W 11, L,
Or, a School for Daughters.
To which will he added snot performed these tw#
years) thy favorite rouficalEntertaiommt,called
The Children in the Wood.
Sir Rowland, • - Mr. Warren
I.ard Alfori, - - Mr. Hardtnge
Walter, - - Mr. Harwood
Apathy, ... Mr. Francis
N fcabriel, - - • - Mr. Bliffttt ,
Oliver, ... Ms. Taylor
Ruffian, ' ... Mr. Hunter
Helen, (the fir ft time) Mrs. Hardingc
Josephine, ... Wn. Oldm'ixea
Wii j red, - - Mrs Do&or
Boy, . - ... Maftcr Warren
Cirl, ; » Mils Hardinge
The doorj wi!l be opened at half past
five, and the performance begin at half pait fix
precisely.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SHE,
THAT well -known fftate, ealled JHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
Central John firuate on £a£Tafras Ui«
ver, in Kent county, Marylannd—containing a
bout i960 acrr* of f rime LAND, Upwards of joo
cf which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and confiCfc c f 2 hvndfome Dwelling Hcufe,
two large Bartio with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpeciocc trending floor under cover, a
granary, two rangesof Overseer** Kotifes, two ran
ges of two story buildings for es (one of
them new and of brick), Corn ho«fe«, a Smonk
hcufe,&c.&c. —The whole Fflate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but ! irtle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring GAr ry. It is
conveniently fit dated for both the Philadelphia and
Paltiraore market*, with two lirtdmgs on a navi
gable river but a iiort failfrcm Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Appie Orchards on
the pi tmifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kind*. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be f>ld togeth.r or divided into
f' aller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchtf>r. Tho
Stock on said Farm, cwfifting ot Horses, Cattle,
Sheep,*&c will also bf difpoftdof For further
particulars tppiy to Giorce Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubfr iber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
Ve.br nary 14. 2aw6w
TO THE
Citizens of the United States.
T"HE Mijpunary Soiitly of JFhilaJtlpbia, inipreff
ed with the in portance of ameliorating ch«
Condition and augmenting the h.ipj'inefs of man.
kind, are impelled by motivts of el gion and be
nevolence to a.tempt the propagation of chrifliaa
and civil knowledge among the aborigines of Aot*
rica.
Those who have experienced the blefTed effetfta
of real religion, must feel a desire to diffemii)ate
its principle!, wherever the footftepsof a fellow
man may he fnuad Ati opportunity new offers,
for such to evince their fineerity, by laboring to
gi-ther in aecompliftiing the »icient prediiSion—
-11 The if ihj Ltri flail tntr tit tartb at tit
via trs da lie Jet."
Living in an age when the devaflations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the bleflingt of
peace, all good and enlight :ncd citiztas will con
cur with as, that every (lap whiih tends to intro
, duce the arts of civilization among the Indians,
must be highly favorable to the interest of the Uni
ted States.
The easy access which may be had at pref-pt to
1 the different tribe?, by meant of government ef-
I tablifbmentt in various parts ef their territory—
-1 their tranquil state, and the freindly disposition of
• some of their chisfi— dispose the Society to elieve
that their arfdrels it not premature. Theyprefume
■ that nothing more i» necefiary to eicite the atten
tion and secure the support ef their fellow citi
zens than to present their plan to the confidtratioo
of the public.
THE Svbscribers, peßetrated with a convic
, tion that their duty and happincft arc involved in
promoting- the knowledge and diffufing the spirit
. of the (. hriflhn religion, d® affoeiate for the pur
. pose of fuppurtiaga miflionary among the AmerU
r can Heathen arid the frontier fcttlements of the
s United St>tes, as an eligible mean of accomplilh-
I it»g so desirable an objefi.—.\ware of the perni
c cious effeftsof party spirit, they think it ncceflary
s to adept for their guide (at will a? to eliii'l.t to
tlie world the principle t by which they will be
geverned) the following
s .CONSTITUTION.
1 I. The aflociation shall be called the Miftmary St
tirtj.
11. Aey perfen Cgnmg the conllitutiea and paying
the ium of one dollar to the treafarer and th«
iurthei sum of one dollar yearly, is a siembcr
during the payment of hit or her subscription.
f 111 The society (liall elefl by ballot an ailing com
, , mittee to consist of a trcafcrcr, fecrctary and se
ven ji-.emberi, o«e third of whom (hall be re
r newed every fix monthi—five stall f v rtn a quo
t rum to bufinefs and have power to call
t special meetings.
, IV. The society fliall meet ev ry three month# at
y an appointed place to the necelfary laws
3 f.d deliberate on the report of the committee
refpefling the state and progress of the inftitu
-1 tion.
s V. No miOionaTy fliall be confiderecTqualified who
[j is not capab'e of praflifit-gor teaching some ufr
fnl art as well as a raficral system of religion.—
' No other t-Jl (ball be required, excepting, evi
derees of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
fcAarian nanitt and adopt (imply that of Cutis
" 71*11.
I. VI. Should the fuadsof the society permit, infti
. tu'.ions fir mftrading the Indians in the agri
cultural and mechanical arts, fliall I e eftabl filed
among them.
I* VII. A« soon at a fufiicunt number have full
y feribtd, the tommituc (ball publifli aader their
f infpedion a periodical niifct 'any entitled tht
J " Ui/pman'' and the jrofits ariling from the
. sale shall be applied to the turds of the society.
' No alteration or amep-'nv nt fliall be made
e in the above eonftitutioa, without th« confrnt cf
C two thirds of tht members, and every such im-
Ij pre vemeat must be proposed three months prior to
. ittdifeuflion.
I 'lTie (onflitution it left for figsaturet at 177 S.
" Second-street.
tr The I tth Tm ilty one of t' c troll influea
i ; tial charaSeri among the Indians North Weft of
c the Ohio (who is now inthiteity) is very ; axious
• to forward the views of tht foctt'y. The Inter
pret r eatt. Wells itzlfo very f.ugtine at to th«
profpeA of fucceti, and prom if at all the aid in hit
i« power. February ««.JUiT RECEIVED,
ASJi FOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Comer ot Chcfnat and Second ftre«tt a
( Prix 5 © Cents)
Camfes qui fe font oppofccs aux
du commerce, entre LA FRANCE et les
ETATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQUE.
Avee les Moyenn de l'«cc«lirer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dctte Nationale
<le l'Anglcterre, dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
Tn fix Lettres, addreffie* a Monfieorle Mar
quis de la Fayette. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la dela Republique
du MaffachufTet.
Le Commerce eft la portion la plus importante des
(Richeftet Nationales
LeTri ient de Neptune, eft lc fc tptre du Monde.
LIMIIXk.
Or eaufes that hare been »ppofed to the
PROGRESS of COMMERCE botween
fX.itiCE and the UNITED STATU of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating.it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Translated (into French from the original Eng
lift Maaufcriot of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legislature of Massachusetts.
Commerce is the molt important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
l'he Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. Lxmiire.
A"T a junfture when the question of
, a Commercial Treaty ntitb •>France may soon
become an objc£ of difcufiion, a work ©f this kind
becomes extremely ufefut to those eitizens ©f the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubje<st, under its various af
peds ; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
furnifhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
nfefulnef3 of this tranfa&ion.
This work is principally distinguished by the
richness of the obfer vat ions, the pcrfpicuity of thd
iwcas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit ©bferved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
Co the very roof with ufelul produce. It is addrtf
(ed te the #nfortuiate La Favitte, in letters,
Which fugitive fo r ai, the author who could only
devote a few weeks to t&is occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although ftrcumitanc*iß are iti many
rtfpe&s different at the present day, from what
»hey were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, that
ihe judioious reader will not appreciate the work
lesion that account; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, arc the re
fiulc of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, every thing maybe expelled from the ef»
forts of truth andjudice.
LETTER I.
General vi©w of the obftaclos,'created in France,
to prevent the ertenfion ©i commerce, with the
Ui:ited s—Obfervations made in a totir, taken
for that purpofe, uponfome French manu
£ailurcs (a precious fragment this). Examination
and» lefutation of the prejudices cxifting in France,
asaiuft the qualify of certain produ&ions of the
United States, and again ft the advantages of their
importation—Demondration of the bad policy of
laying duties ©n their importation, principally on
pfovifions in gener*4, and on fait provisions, and
filh in pa- ticular—Confideratitms on the regulation i
of the French cu£omrhouf<£*.
LETTER 11.
Obtlaefes to the extension of trade with France,
JHocecdiiig from circumftanses individuals m
the United States—Proofs that thfcfe obftaclcs are
•nly temporary and will be removed (they hayc
been removed) by time and tta wifdomof govern
ment—Hiiloryaf the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciplo6 and abftraA
confiderarions on nioney and circulation—Caufcs
of the 11 agnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French a oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduit
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic withes on this fubje£—
Observations on money, weights and meaiures.
LETTER 111.
EUayin the forra of a tablcAU, to sppraife the im
poi tations into tne United States from France arid Eng~
Und un fed. The author examines at each article 9
whether it can be better furniftied from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would have aftooifhed a mere thtorift) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kin l of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only sure guides
the statesman can take for th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved.. We cannot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calculations; and all hough
the propWrfies of Lord Sheffield have already been
contradided by experience, and by several able pens,
yet it is cui ious to fee the author of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only groui d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
tinder the requited condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to supply us with several articles,
which the Englilh author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patriality ajefl on (if he
has any) does n»t appear to have at any time created
z partiality cj judgment. "The result of this calculation
is that »n *7©9» that is to (ay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did eot present in France the vafl
means and piobabiti:y of extension which they now
poffcfa. that even in 1789, it was pcefumablr, that
Fiance w©uld not only have the means to supply one
half of anv given Quantity of the produftions of Franci
and ■ rtgland united, but also to enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wisdom of her government, and Itie industry
Oi her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excell i»t work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by ©0 means fupeifluous i the principle of the
advantages which would result to France Irom the
importation of provifiom and raw materials, i* every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the «uthor eftablilhes his demands to the French go
vern|nent» * or l^c limited sdmtflion of the produc
tionsof his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effects of national debt, on circulation, Sec. as more
amply detailed in his Natiooal Arithmetic printed at
fiofton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, thepublc and private credit
•f the United States —the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, arc cootrafted in the ablcft manner, and un
der the mod ttriking lelations, by very cu ious cal
culations —Obfetoations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenfea in Maflachu
fetts. In this place the patriotism of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which a just national
pride inlpires. The ancient governments of Europe,
lavs he, vyill learn from us the art #f economy in
recompensing he frrvices which the country receives.*
Among fl us it will be seen, that men are chojen for places,
and n»t places for men. Th»s letter corciudes with a
general view of the public property, depohted in the
hands ©f the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination of the defeA* of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the Umtfd States ;
many of these observations have produced the effc&s
for which thev »were intended, others still remain,
pointing out tne reforms to be tnade in future, as a
£T*d chart marks the /hoali and r©ckj. The aa.ho
c<vir,l«4ea hit 'work, by €xiag hit attention an hit
country, and the great men who have rendered it il
luft«ious; and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
fay aof ihe present chief >af our jsoverntnenL. To
praise a man when he eiercrfcs a dilhnguilhed em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he ia in private life, it is the homage of
(incerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
• Lea habitant des Etats-unis, fuivant daivs leur
choix le bien public, Sc excites par un principe de
reconnoj fiance, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouve*u congres. Se» efforts, pour pre
server le peuple dea intrigues formees par le gouv
frnernent Anglais conue fa liberte, le /endiient tres
fufpeft a ceux q«ii etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
eonvaincu de son merite, le choifit pour ua de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congrts. De ce nombr*
etoit aufli M. Samuel Adams, pa'riote aulli intrepide,
qu'infatigable. La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes traraux, Sc a sea talens
difringes. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes
dana le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en J 783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftrc au(Ti habile que grand
! politique, lit dans son ouvrage fur la defeaie de la
f conftiiuiion Americaine, il a moctae toutes les can
noiffances qui formcnt les vrais jurifconfultea Sc. les
hommesde lo*; conncJHTances neceffaires, pourrem
plir honorablemrnt les fon&ionf de preQdcnt du fenat
dea Etats-unis.
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—•from London,
(Where he has studied several years under one of
the mod eminent masters in that fcicnce.)
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.-—Terms, as ufaal, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
wfeek. Likewif©, all kinds of Orn amenta! Paint
>ng, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on ehe above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will he partial* j
larly advantageous to thok that om.ploy him, as
he makes no additional charge if there; are t*'o
pupils in one family*
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, will be immediately attended to.
January f. §iw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament of
William HlvsiisM, ieceafed, and poflVf
fion glvc-n immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ILeets, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot o<i which
it is ereited, a flablv, and other improvements.—
The house is >0 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and 309 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled eiftern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The liable Hands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoysthe perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to CSierry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofleffes with refpeil to free variola
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfan xvifhing.to possess an ulijjiblc property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No it, Vine
Street—of
Robert Hetsham,
or > Ailing Eswefatori.
Fran-sis Bowis Sayri, j
January II ■§
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Shore
io the Bank of the United States,|ftandingi«n the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July 11,1797. the fame
having been loft. JQHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I. t>6w
' NOTICE. '
ALL psrfons who have any demands agaiufl
the eftite if Willam FleSwtood, of
Liverpool, lite of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested j and those who are indebted i
to the fame, are dtfired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 75, So. Third-street. J Admim J lr r
Tanaary 4. dtf
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
January <9 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a modente prictr-Enquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, 17. daw
: A House in Burlington for Sale.
fubferiber has a large, convenient two-
X flory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
hoafe, and a f*'ell improved Gardes, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wishes to
sill. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
' harbour.
December j,. 7ot
To be fold,
AN F.LEO ANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
1 (lory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
j Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the
townffcip of Moyamenflng, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application'st the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tofte and
elegance, Hand unMvalled.
December 1. jff
PROPOSAL. "~"
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened ~to issue proposals
for printing by fubfrription, tbeJOURNALS OF
j CONGRESS, from their fir 4 meeting in 177.5,t0
the present time.
This work shaH be printed with t new type,
mad« for the purpefe ; and on good paper. It
will be delivered at o ie dollar per volume (oita
vo) in 6 vols.—taft to t,e paid on delivery
It isiieedlefs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertaking—th.i scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United »ate», is fufficient to jufli
fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that
success, which he is certain the enterprise deserves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. " d<t J
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <wb»U mnd bats tierce*
Bout dea ux Brandy
TeneriJ/e Wine
Molaffet
Georgia and Carolina Indtgo
Ra-vens Duck and one boghead of paint
bru/het.
N, (s* J. Frazer.
No. 9s> Sontb Front Street.
7- dim
J u fl Pi*blijbedy
And to be had of Meflrs. UoV>fon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers ia t're
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. o.
Jaw »o. «4 t
A 0 T I C E<
A Manufaßory of yelloiu and delft ivarc.
Such as wcr wai in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&cd at Tivuii, Red Hook. Laod;n.,
on the fcaft Bank of Hud(o»'» River, ila e of New-
York, whete any article of vaiious forts and (hapes
may be executed, as well as earthern lloves upon a
new conftiu&ion, that favet three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron lloves or open chyuiMies i
they arebcfidesvery wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the (aid ware. Generous appoint*
ments will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, El'q.
No. 71 South .sth Street.
Feb. <9. , eo^4w
New-Fork, "Yanuary 34, x 79 39
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook, ,
Tropiietar of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Polterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minrfter of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London mli
fiensm a few months,) will be comprised in i
vols, oiflavo, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, ami delivered to Subfcnlers, neatly bound
and lettered, at I dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Sublcnption money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the (e
---mainder when the work iscoiripleat.
T» Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
>tfF Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, N». 149, Water street—the Printing-
Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Book Sores in New-York - Also, by William
Young, corner cfSecond and Chefaut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As fbon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will he put to press, and
compleated with the utmoA dispatch.
Feb. 10. eod2m
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A NIW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various erimcs and *i-if
demeanors, by which pu-blic and private propar
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
Aftd suggesting remedies for their prevention.
■ Y A MAGISTRATE,
A (fling for the counties of Middlesex, Sorry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Westmin
ster j and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
den.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a l-irge odlavo, on
an excellent Engiifli paper—lt will be delivered t®
fubfetibefs, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of (Mt D&lldr tnd a half; although the last London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, is
now fold at >Wo dollars and a half. Touon-fub
fcrtbers the price will be railed.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it wfllbccommitted to the prsfs without
detay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
£/■ Subscriptions will be thankfully recsivedat
Benjamin Daviess's book-store, No 68, High
ftrdet, and by mod of ths other booksellers ia thi
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drurr.mand, in Ncw-Y«rk.
January 31. aawtA
Hoafe and Lots, in Berdents-wn.
TO BE SOLD, a handforae two story House,
with the Lot on which il is ere&ed, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
\ illage of Bordentewn. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II be given as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will bo fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentow#, near
the prtmifes, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
December z. jawtf
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR &ALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, ")
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, and
A parcel ef (hip building RED CEDAR.
oa. 17. j
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walmit-ftreet,
INFORMS thoft who wifli to recor to the only
means of becoming perfed in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con-
Ming of upwards of 1500 volumes, the b«ft cal
culated to afford either ufefui inftfudtion, o»r plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, m§y be fee« at every book-feller's
tn town.
n. b. All trandations from and into the French,
Englifti and Spanish Languages, e*eeu:ea with ac
curacy and dispatch. coin n&v. if.
This Day is Published,
BY Mefl*. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ru>, and the
•ther Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on tVuve paper, and Hot*
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th* several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Conftitutiofi, and
dafling together their most important provifiens,
under the several heads of admißiftration j with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of tho
United States.
Dedicated to th« People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
Tn be given out evcrj» second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of IO and 11—
back ef 0»■!*, Jbuth Fi(:h ftraot, above Spruce
ftrcet. eodaw I
James C. Samuel W. Filher.
AT THEIR STOPS,
N*«E*3» corner of Arch and Front (tree*.
BAVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunk*, afTored
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pu4li6at silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madcafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chcfts best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes best London Window Class,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhdsl Glass
Ware assorted, whieh they will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3tawtf
Imported (via New -York) on the
ship Hero, from Madr;is and Calcutta* and for
sale by th« fuUfcribfcr, at Na. 61, Cheieut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Charconrra Dorurn
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muGins !
GiUis'Romals Bandannoe«
Nillas &. Pcnfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Mair ribbon
Mull Palempores
do. Banares Opi*ni
Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November tj tuth«4W
Valuable Books,
Just rec»ived by tlie Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. <)hmrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
C A IALOGUES
Of the newly impsrttdbooks maybe had gra
tis. Thei'e added toO's usual stock, form an
extensive and elegant colleilio* of ancient and
modern literature, and oomprife books in fuc
dry languages and on various fubjeits.
This Day is Published,
By J. Ormhod, (Price 75 cents, handfomeJy
bound and lettc-red, and embellilhed with an ;
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collection of interesting and
mifcellancous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
yojing minds the happy eft'efts «f youtWul in
nocence asd filial affeifion—ln prolie and verse.
Defigncd to improvt and amuse the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily p«bWhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
prinjed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to tubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliflied with an elegant frontifpiece, for ofie
dollar.
January 3 . -t.
FOR S.iLE, bt
William Priestman,
1219, South Front-fireet, next door to the Cuf
tom-house,
A large assortment of
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold ,
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Piflo'u, by Knubley, Charing
Cross
Refleflisg Telescope, by Ribright
Box of patest Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
colleHion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 5787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
January 4. d?t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. Second-street, corn;r of Chefmit-ftrcet,
HAS now ready for fak, a very large assort
ment of Englijb, French, Latin and Grcei
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alft, siKh elementary books
or ScienGe, as are generally read in the academies
and collegcsthroughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth editioa, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large Ia mo price id«l 75 tri.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50cts.
All f<jrcs of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pasteboards,
Iheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
bl.nk Books, Wax, Wifsrs, and other artic'ss, ef
the belt quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
£>* Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Ofl. 24 3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. oflavo.
William Young, Bookseller,
No. 5 a, Second "street, the corner of Chefnut ltreet,
(Price, in boards. 87 I 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablifted in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BK.O WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correal some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly fe!e<sfed from the records of their pra&icr,at
the General Hofoital at Calcutta,
Br William Yates Chas. Maclean.
To which i»fubj»ined, a Treatise on the adion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
| Uon for the cure of diftafes of indirect debility.
Andadiffertation onthe fourcts of Epidtrmicand,
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of tkatthey ne
ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain dales, or certain viciflitudea of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 21. (Jut
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large an! convanient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of th» city—for .vhich a generous
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
Oft. 17. eotf
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Fine, near Fifth street.
December »8. iw
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica,landing it Seuth Street wharf,
136 hhd«. and <fOO barrels choice Coffee
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum*
For sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO A LSO OEPKRS FO R JALI^
500,00© Lb« of Java Coffee
800 Hags do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A quantity of HifpMiiola Cocoa
Ked Port Wine in pipes and hogfiieadt
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 d2weotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,,
Who has been a considerable time on the
million in the country parts of the flateof Pcnn
fylvania.jjives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the said state, and border
ing on either, the Potomack, Sufquehanna, of
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to makea f»t
tlement with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be
For further information, apply to the Rev. Leo*
nard Neale, Willing'® Alley.
Feb. 8. '
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offersfor sale the property now
occupied by him in the town of West-Chester
and county ofChefter. It confillsof a well finished
two (lory stone house, 43 feet front, by about 40
deep, lour rooms on a floor, with cieletf garrets,
and a cellar underthe whola— A very good stone
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Ground,
three pirehes wide, by twenty perches depth.
Ihe houfe-llands on the Main street; its lunation
is high and very handsome ; the lot extends to a
back ftree', on which the stable and coach house
stand. The lot is m a high state of cultivation,
and there is in t-he yard a pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, besn known ts fail.
The Situation of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country around it, fertile and
beautiful.
The term* of payment will made ts suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm'Tu, at a*.
'49 i South rhird-ftreet, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwfif
City Commiflioner's Office,
January \itb, 1798.
FOR THt INFORMATION OF THk CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said coinmifiianers, for cleansing the
ftrtets, &c.
Diftriit No. t.—From the north fide of Vin.e
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperinttndance of Nicholas Hickl.
2- From the south fide of Mulbrry street, tp
the south fide of Ciefriut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street sco
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under thfc
fuperinteodanee of Joseph Claypoole.'
4. From the north fide 6f Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. iswfim
OVAL BOTTLES. *"*
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quatti!
ty of Claret Bottles of a right size—For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSET.
January ti 3 taw6w.
Recently Publijhed,
And just imported from England, by Wilua ft
Grutfiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Mono 1 n J. Rhees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two clofeljr
printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Uluftrations of Prophecy :
la which are elucidated many predi&ions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evaifc*-
gclifts, and book q! Revelation ; which are tho*t
t# foretell among oth*r great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the interests of mankind,,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclesi
astical. tyranny, the downfall of civil d'afpotifm,
and thefubfequent melioration of the state of the
world : together with
A large colkftion of Ext rafts,
Interspersed through the work, and taken from,
numerousrommentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir Jfaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lnwth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hem y More, Bengeliue,
Dr. John Owen, Daubuz,
Dr. Crelfener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, Lowman,
Brenius, Bishop Newton, and
Bilhop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of ia
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy j
it contains a conflderable number of fads or ob
servations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authen:iciry, uses, and ebfeurity of the apo*
ealypfe, and thegenuinenefs of the Hebrew pro
phett; on the rapid corruption »f christianity ia
the fourth century ; on the difpertion andreftora
tion of the Jews, thehiftoryof the falfe Meßiahs
who have appeared among them, and the reasons
in support of the couj dture that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
rsfiflance to oppretion; on the irruptions of tK<
northern nations, a»d the caufesof the decline and
fall of the Roman empire; on the cufloms of cbe
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those nations, and those ot the
Turks; on tile usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
th« pad history add present state of Egypt; on
the character andcondadt of Conftantine, Jullini
-o\, ciovia, and Lewis XIV ; on the fcarcity.of
books in the dark ages, and the caofes of the de
cline of literature ; on thii rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the ca«fes of its Jail; on the in
consistencies in the political chambers of bishops
Ntwton and Hurd; ou the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth j 011 the beneficial
efleds whichehrifiianity has produced in favor of
learning and ®ivil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eftablifhmcnt of equal governments.
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in theft volumes, those who are
Inurefted in thefubjeit will, it is presumed, wiib
to peruse or consult them, becaufi; the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, fnd
marked with inverted commas, are taker from a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (at
l«aft if the roman catholic commentators he ex
cluded) th an are eafilyaccuHible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
iH any or. library in theworld. They are far
nifhed with indexes, and a copious table of con
tents. *Jan. 22—2aw2w
Chocolate and Multard, (
of a fnperior quality manufactured,
GINGF.R and f-eppe--, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Air |
London Porler ; red, Port and Lisbon Win#,
fuitalile for exportation or home conliimpliaa.
The Isightft pike given for Mustard-Seed.
Atfo for sale-, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
FuAians, Shawls, Ac. for sale Hy
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. feu th Fmnt-flrett.
nvv. 27. ni.&th.t.ij.