of ttjc dlrutrtl Starrs. Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1701. J
FOR SALE,
#> ->#l. The Schooner
three sisters, (
burthen 85 tons, two years old
vJSi*j3E»- built of the bed material*, and now
r c«dy to receive » "t 0 - S* l * l Tetrtl m *y 60 view "
«d at Mr. Samu«' Brewer's wharf, Kenfinjton.
ALSO,
jjj|S{jk HARRIET,
Burthen 77 tons, three years '
old, is well found j may be view- '
ed at MtlTrs. Hcttel and Bayard's wharf. '
Those VeffeU are well calculated for Coasters, 1
»nd havf been employed in the trade between Phi- I
iadelphia and New-York—They have excellent ac
commodations for Passengers. '
For terms, apply to '
Gurney & Smith. '
February 16. ,
Nicklin ss* Griffith, i
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf— i
Hitl tot. S A L It, (
jt hhds. of Jamaica Rum 1
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhdl. <
Teneriffe do. in pipei *
Old Port do. in hhJ«. '
Imperial Tea in quarters and etghtks ef chefls
Sail Canvass, Ttfo. I, to S j
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft lndia market '
Kails assorted "* j
Black quart bottles f
Queens ware in hhdi. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expefled round '
aa Toon as the navigation is open, '
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coala l
Spinifh Brown "J 1
Venetian Red
KS" \ "™ TS
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
U now chanped to
NICKLIN ftf GRIFFITH.
January t. eodtf
For Savannah,
7hefaft failing Ship
SWIF r PACKET,
( a rf £ u l jr trader)
Patrick Gums,majer,
WILL fail on the 10th mil.
(ice permitting) hashandfi me aecommodations
or passengers. For freight or pafiage apply to
the matter on borrd, at Eickley's Wharf, above
Mo ket-ftreet, or
N. V J. Fra*itr,
No. 9?, South Front-street.
February j. S
, For Amsterdam,
The Ship
FAR M E R,
John M'Coliom, Master ;
WILL fail in a fear days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
pillage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, oHt of the said Ship, from
Bourdeanx, and forfale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a foperior quality
Fontiniac,^
Santerne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
lIIjL GOODHOPE
Will carry about i»oo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers £s° Ce.
No. Ijl, South Second-street.
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Flax Seed for sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-Areot.
January 17 5
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now cotrmeneed at the Glass House iu
Boston.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Bolt«n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the Uoited States to be in every ref
peA greatly fuperiar to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cat to any fi»e commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to CUwUt f.
Zufftr, at the Glaf- House.
Orders from the distant Statestobe addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftr.et, Boston.
Two or three good Glass makers are want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
etnploy, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
the works. Men withoat families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of r.akiog Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boston. January 16 i —taw6w
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOMAN just arrived from England, wants a,
»!»ce as a Xarfcor attendant on the ficlt, either on a
ntlema. or Ladv.—For fviuher i.fniraatioo apply
N«. 10, Saudi Foarth ftteei, aear Maske (Irect.
Feb* 6. ««
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 21, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be etpoled to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' CofFee-houfo in Seeond-flrest,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. I. A tvso (lory brick House, with 1 two
story frame Buil-iings, on a lot 10 feet front and
lOC feet deep •, also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet lquare,
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second-streets, the fecood house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
No. 2. A three story brisk House, fifuate at
the north east corner of Cheftiut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 10 feet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and as deemed one of
the bell stands for the fait of dry goods in this city.
No. J. A handsome well finilhed three story
brick House, 20 feet fcont and 100 feet deep, fitu
ato in Fifth-ftreot, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. This oufa is built and finilhed 1
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at prt
fort let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third street,
being ao feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
Nn. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-flreet, where it is five story. It is iO
feet front and 4$ feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter ca(h,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in 11 months.
Philadelphia, Jar r . tl, 1798. 3aw
0- On aecountof the present bad weather, the
above sale it pollponed until Thursday evening, the
firft day of March, at 6 o.clock. Feb. 16-
JUST ARRIVED,
fn the Ship Jtar, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,.
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit Wert India market
40 hoglheads Whiting
1500 bulheh Houfe Coals
Also —JUST KNStD,
4®o barrels prime Beef, Boston and New-York
50 barrels Pork
150 hhds. Havaxna Molasses
Woolen Cloths
Blauketa > afforled in packages
Hard Ware J
Ravens Duek
Window Glass in boxes, Bri. ifh, of various sites
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groce each
A general affortmeat of Queens' Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cases
Baflcet fine Salt, in hoglheads
FOR SALS BY
Thos. y John Ketland.
February 15 {ttM
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofj whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judgas of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Moniaj, tie lurenty-Jixtb day of
February next, to hear him and h.s Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fuHjcA of his peti
tion Cor the benefit of the lafolventLaw—and
that their attendance is deftred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Thilaieiphim, Jar,u 16. cott6thF
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
hooks, which have been kept open for theiitinfpec
tion since Dectmber 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will daring the present month remain
open at his CountiHg-houfe in Chefnut Street for
their further fciut ny.
JAUF.S GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ifl 1798.
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2, 1797.
ON a releafc of survey of 433 acres,6B perches
of land, fnuate in lower SmithfielJ townlkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
Thi«land claimed by heirs »f Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a' ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Ha.l, Secretary
as the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §tiFiwtm
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subferiber, proposing t® contra# his bufi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, oa moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good gr>ft
Mill, with two pair of (lones ; also a good Forgr, all
in perse& repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with the(e various branches. The Air Furnaces
weie lately built for the purpose of carting Cannon
for this State.—There art* about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
Paliure. The Cannon lately mannfadared there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not o«ie of sixty-nine gwns
lately snade, although iome of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fuu
atiori is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&urr, aad a place of aims lying in the state
as CanneAicut. and only 50 miles from several land«
ings an the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iffjii£
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
1 and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommod«t
---l ed with all the stock and utensils, and have poflVffi >ll
. on or before the firft of June next, and prepar tion
may be made in the mean u me for going into Blast im
> mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, dcco See. For
. terms, spply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Pr>iladel
, phia; Bavid Brooks, E'q. one of the Reprrfentafrives
f in Congress tor this Stale ; Mr, D.ivid Waterman, on
► thepremifes, or tothearooiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
i Peg - *•
1 Landing this day,
From en board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
ie) Crawley, Mafl*r,
Bohhds.and|J ;
n p'pei J J '
1 FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
itrvemher 9. J
By John Fenno, N ov 119 Chefmit Street.
r term of Co-partnership between the sub-
JL fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will he fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those the partnership
are earnestly requefled ta make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J«n. .
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 stf
FOR SALE, »t
John Miller, jun.
No. t, Chtfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—AUOMOST W«10« AA*
Gurrahs Matneodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzeuas I'anda Coflaes
Guzzies Emrrtics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst there are a jrcat proportion of thetna
aufaAares of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
AiSO, J
Forty pnncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Ssf Co.
INFORM their friends in town and co«ntry,that
thiy hare opened a Wholcfale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South FranfS/ireet,Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Jrijb, French and JffrU
tijl MannfaAuresfor sale, on advantageous terair
for calh or a short credit.
February 19
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's lad cargo from
Calcutta, and will fee fold low,
7 Boxei of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Merdecai Lewis.
February 19 daw
" A PRINT.
THE Print, representing General Washing
ton and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the - A £th of
March next.
An unfinifhed impreflion is to be feet* at Mr M*El
- loi>king>glafs (lore, No. 70South Fourth Street.
The fubfciiption will clofp on the 10th of March
next. Sub r c iber* may depend on having the best
Prints at one guinea *nd an kslj. To noa-fubferibert,
the price will be two guineas.
February 19*
ocs- Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his matter's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, on the sth of this in*
ftant Febmry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phifiogn-my is vacant b*t not
dif greeable; his age is supposed to be afcout 40.
He had on when he went away, a (hort blue cloth
coat, striped caffiraere vest, corduroy breeches,
: and yarn stockings of a blue and white mixture
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a fliort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; also, a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other clOathos he took with
him cannot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he inttnd9 going to the eastern
(hare of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his master
may get him again, or bring him home, Cull have
a reward of twentt dollars.
Apply to the Printero
February 7. §
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, praiing that they would
attend to hear what can be al'.edged for or a
gamll his liberation, pursuant to an a& of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an aa for
the- relief of insolvent debtors," pafied the »6th
day of Ja uary 1798 —And the the court
did appoint Monday the 16th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Piecing, at eieven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are requeftsd to take notice.
CHAKLfcS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. S» 1798-
Feb. 14. — lawtw
Princeton—New-Jerfey.
To he Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in whji h
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all-the ap
purtenances. The house is two Itories high,
of frame work and painted. There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, aud five
roomt on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is p.ved with fioncs. In it are a well of encel
leni water, an oven, a and house
for ashes—and behind it a can iage house, hay
loi't, gracery, and convenient stables, with four
Ifalls for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the flreet, and 154 feet
deep, somewhat more than half of whii h is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reason
able, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
Januarv 19. . iaw4w
IN THE PRESS, ~
And speedily will he Pubiijhed,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOUETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
Written at Sit, in tie year 1794 :
And now printed
Mr THE AUTHOR.
** A naty would be maintained hut to an almost
ufelrfs putprfc which taking the seamen kept the
merohantmvn idle in port, and trading vessels
would he as unprofitably employed, if they took
all those seamen whofelkill and courage onboard (hips
of war, would give them pr tedlion and lecure
their fifety. We havn enough for-hoth purposes,
and the cultivating hand of attention alone is want
ing to multiply their number. " Money may buy
•• al nfcvtl stores, except mariners; but, unless a
" supply of them is preserved, *e wtahh will be
" able to procure tfcfm."
February % . j
Bafkcnridge—for sale
IT ronHfls of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fill# rich Meadow, (the refidenteof the late
K*rl of Scrling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five four of which arc bounded on the
fiail by the river Pafuick.
Th-re are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 fine bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts oi said
tradl near ether Apple Trees—as also a great
variety ol other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and uioft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreots, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abcut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and la from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris 1 s Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frede
rickfburg Packet,, Captain Pearce from
• Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.'
Figs in k gs
Almond kernels in eafks and hose*
So'.t (hell'd almonds In fa«k»
Prunes in boxes
Crapes in j-irs
Anchovies in kegs, &t.
The whole of the articles fhippsd al of the firft
qualities.
For Sale iy
Peter Kubn.
February J H.u
Prison Adanufa&ory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logw od
Shoemakers and Sadies* Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea ittones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heals, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diitance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pisfon, will be attended to.
December 16. mth6m
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground /
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
/ilfo, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fiiuiteon
Water street, between Mulberry an l SalTafrac
Street?, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eafl
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publx alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defiraMcfit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo'd on very reasonable
terms for calh. For farther information apply
to the printer.
July 31. mJcwtf
Just Published,
And to he had at the Book-stores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Cavpbf.ll, Young and Okmrud,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To ivbicb is annexed,
Afll ABSTRACT of the opinions and praifice of
different authors: am! an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa6h and reflexions relative to
the Synocbus l£ltroides % or Yellow Fever, wfuch
has occafiv>ncd so much diftref* and mgrtrality,
at different periods, in several of* the fesport
towns of rhe United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Phihdeh hia College of PhyCcians,
and Member of the < merican Philolophical So
ciety. FeS. |.L-
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 2©th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN** Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-dreet—
I'ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifler
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11.and Pattwrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may 1 e had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the Mates of the
Union.
N. B. The bviinefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco»Rting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, See. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACxCBURN.
November 15. §
IN THE PRESS,
AMD SPEEDILY WILL Be PUBLISHED,
( Price 25 Cents J
R"_Re£tions on Monroe's Viaw
OT THE CONDUCT OT THS SXFCOTirt.,
As ptiblifhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figgature of
SCIPIO,
In which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French fadlion in this country
as its source, and the motives of the opposition
t. the meafores of tbc United State* are exposed.
F*b. S.
FOR SALE,
BY the subscriber#, No. xi, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges %
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjtjiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and
Coflaes Punjum Clothi
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dore*
Blue Cl.-tli Tanjibs
Chintz and Calient* Mulmuli
Mamoodys Chcrks
Maharagnnges Patna Hkfj.
Ginghkmi Mulmul da.
Guzzcnas Bandannoes
Gurraha Siflerfoy
Piniafeoes » Choppa RomaU
Salgatchyi Sooty do.
Gillie Komik Perluni of tarious cal<
Meek Pulicatt
»oo tons SUGAR
96,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing! isf Freness.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges ate now open to sale at that
commodious itcrc the north weft corner of -
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfa —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkft. ef ele
gant patterns and belt colours.
February 2. dtf
FOR SALE,
3y WHARTON fef LEWIS,
No I*ls South Front Street*
A quantity cf Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Run), 7 entitled t©
zft and 2d proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &e.
t Feb. 9. eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
i 6 hoglheads best ST. CROIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Go.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An aflivs, cleanly, industrious woman to csole
and do the ftufinefs u{ the kftchrn. Such a one
will he allowed good wayes, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Do&or oi a Ship to the Fall-Indies.
No. at Do k Street.
Feb. 6. d.w
Ran away from the Suifcribcr,
On the 24th January last,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is oi a middling sized stature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a bundle of lir.cn with her. Whoever
takes her up and brii gs her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-ftrcet, corner of Fourth-ftrsst,
ihall receive two Dollars reward.
J. I.AZELLES.
N B. Whoever harbors fiid Girl after this no
tice, fljall be profeeuted to the fevtrity of the law.
Februaty 10. '
NO TICK.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the ertatc of IVILUAM COMPTON, lat
of the city of Pniladelphia, deccafcd, are requ«f»
ted to furnilh their accounts, duly attested. And
those who are indebted to fiid tll it , areeamsftly
foliated to make immediate payment, to either of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Catbrall, ~l
John Haivorth, >■ Administrators.
Samuel Wilcox. J
_ January IT- wsjw
NOTICE.
A LI. p»rfons indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the DiftriS of Southwark, deccafed,
are requested to make immediate paymentto either
of the Sitfcribcrs; and those who have any de
mands against said estate, are requested to bring in
their ac.»ui.tsdnly attested, to
John Murphy, ~i
Peter ScravenJyie, C £xeCU "
Thomas Farrell, J tor *»
January 16. 'awawjw
Lately Publifhed^
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cernejof
Second and Chefnut llrests,
( Price 3 ~%tbs c/* 1 dollar J
Obfer various on certain Dscuments
•"nnrahifd in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge oi spfculatton against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sicretary oi the Treasure, is FUI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication prefems a coneife iutcmtnt of
the base meacs pra&ifcd by the- Jacobins of the
United States to afpurfe the chars<3rr< cf those
persons who are considered as hollile their d'.for
ganizing fthemes. It also cowtairis the correfpon
clence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefl'rs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeit of the
documents aforefaid, aidafcries of letters from
James Reynolds and-hi wife to Mr. Hamilton,
proving beyond the LoiUbility of a doubt, that tkc
e.nnc&ion between him and Reynolds was the re
fultof a daring coni piracy on the part of the lat
ter and his aflociates to extort money.
(jTV" A d:f:onnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor «f wholesale purcha
lers, for cash. Orders to be addrefled te Mr.
Yobno.
February f.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stilted Sales
For DRY GOODS.
r Forenoon—Edwari Fox, No. j6,
Mendav' *° Utll Fron, -ft r «t,
} ~\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No.
(' South Front flfeet.
r' Fercnoon—John ConneMjr, OW Citv
TuefdaU r Auflion . No 73 Wh 1-ront-ftrett.
- 1 Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 183 High-iirect.
{ A £r™Xf,! ,r ™'
ThurfJay j F°™oo ß _£dw.rd Fox.
' J I Afn-rnoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—Shann.n.
S Connelly,
I S<? fari^Aftcrnoon— Bcnfon.
[VOLVM£ Xlil.XSiv oa3Ctte.
}'n;LADK L P H I A ,
WEDNESH'Y FESRUAKT 11.
FELLOW-CITIZENS !
The hour of danger i come—a falfe fe
eurily deceives and destroys you—our coun
try is ftrugjling in the deadly gripe of dis
order and rapine, and the eonteft i« doubt
ful. Our government and laws t»tter under
the unremitting exertions ofrnfiians panting I
for tumult, plunder and bloodflied, who
strain every muscle and torture every means
to tumble them into the dull. As they
prjf* you in the streets they eye you as the
future devoted viAims «f their fury ; and,
in hellish anticipation, view your property
at already their own. Reuse then, fellow
citizens, the robber is at your door ; the
naan of blood prowls round your dwelling ;
{hake of ihat indolence which in an hour
like this, is treason. Arouft from that fu
pinenefs which may be the forerunner of
death. Your ceun:ry demands your aid a
gainst a determined, incorrigible fadlion,
driven on by foreign intrigue, and the grasp
ing hopes of plunder, to overturn your go
vernment erected by the hands of wisdom
and pattjotifm, on the bones of depaited,
flaujjhtrred heroes, aod cemented with their
blood. Give not up the noble, the sacred
fabric without a struggle to preserve it,
nor shrink like cowards in the moment of
difficulty and danger. Your independence
was not thus atchieved, and deserves a bet-
C support. Can you doubt the views or
th= principles of these people, when with
violence, with clubhand with swords, they
hunt the friends of government from place
to place, break up their meetings even at
tbe expence of blood, and deny you even
the right of communicating your fer.ti
ments to tacli other ; when the rm'ns of
your country and government {hall rattle a
bout your ears ; when you (hall be thrown
i* the dust at the feet of a thoafand Robif
pierres ; when unbridled lull and rapinefhall
burst into your houses, and wrest youi wives
and property from your impotent gripe ;
when Our land (hall become a second def
lated France, swimming in its belt blood,
then, too late, will you curse the indo
lence and falfe security that btfrayed you ;
and your children too", ftiall curse you when
they begin to feel the wretchcdnefs and mis
erv to which )-(,u have most basely reduced
them. Priendi of government ! Power and
ftiength are your own ; these hell hounds
cannot stand before you ; you can never
fall but by your own inactivity. Come
forward then, as one man, bending every
thought, every hope, every exertion to one
great ofcjcit ; imitate your enemies in their
a£tivity, perseverance and unanimity, and
you are yet fafe.
FORESIGHT.
For the Gaze 111 as the United Statu.
MK FiNNO,
Some persons have been under a great
roiftake as to the manner in which the com
mittee who decided upon the eleftion of Is
rael Israel were chosen. They suppose they
"were appointed by the Speaker or the Se
nate, as in commen cases; now the fait is,
tbe names of all the Senators were written
on separate pieces of paper and folded up as
nearly alike as pofiible and after being shak
en in a box were diftributedby lot into three
boxes; then a name was drawn alternately
out of each box, and each party had liber
jy to objeft until only seven names vycre left;
this was done—The committee were then
{Worn "to try the rtmtter of the petition
complaining of th£ undue eleftion and re
turn anda truejudgmenttogive according so
the evidence." A patient hearing was giv
en to the parties and in the course of the in
ve&igaticm, when the counsel for the petiti
oners against Mr. Israel brought forward
teflimosy to prove that many of the voters
hsd eonfefied that they had not complied
with the neceflary forms to become citizens ;
the committee rejeftcd the evidence, though
the counsel 'declared that foch a decision
would in fa& be at once deciding again ft
them, as they would never be able to get
the voters themselves. This, however, had
»o weight with the committee, they decid
ed as they theught right in favor of tbe
counsel for the fitting member. Did this
look like being swayed by party? far from
it. The counsel for the petitioners after
wards established the point by the evidence
•f the voters themselves, the committee
were therefore bound to give the judgment
they have done. They were on oath—and
who is to be believed ? impartial men under
the foleron obligation of an oath, »r the
brawlers of party in a tavern under tbe influ
ence of party prejudice and the phrenzy of
an overheated imagination, inflamed and in
flaming for tbe purposes of electioneering.
Bluih ye, who have signed tefolutions re
fle&ing on the committee, and publilhed
them to the world, though yon know no
thing of the merits of the cafe.
An instance of the mtdtjiy of the party
way be seen in their calling on the member j
of the committee (and particularly on Mr.
Whelen) to resign their feats in the Senate
under the pretence that as Mr. Israel's feat
had been vacated, theirs mud of course. be
equally so.
People l.'ke these, who have ■» regard
Tor truth lead themselves into difficoltie* by
bold aftertions without foundation. Col.
M'Clellan, who w» chosen at la ft ele&iou,
hsd between seventeen hundred, and- two
tboufand votes more than tfie nest highest
ib vote: were there so many persons permitt
ed to vote who had no right ? Mr. Whelen
had a large majority—l believe near one
thousand, and yet he is c;.Ued hpon by name
to rcfign his feat after having held it about
three years.
At the time Mr. W\>elen was elected, e
very pcrfon who had resided lis re two years,
could immediately become a citizen on mak
ing proof thereof and that he was a pcrfon
of good chart Aer: that Wa* not the «*fe at
last eleAion. No person who arrived in this
country fiace the 29th January 1795 can be
naturalized until after five year* residence ;
hence a greater ucceffity for enqniring, a
greeably to law whether the person offering
to vote was a Citizen or not.
Twenty days after the time of making -
the return i* allowed by law for the citizens
to objeA to the validity of the retnrn. If
no objeAion is made in that time, it can be
of ao force afterwards ; years have elapsed,
and now for the firft time an objeAion is
heard of. A FREEMAN.
. 11
To' the people of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and of the county of Delaware.
In various publications inthe news-papers,
and by faggqftions at public meetings, the
strongest efforts-have been made to persuade
you, that the committee of the Senate who
decided that Mr. Israel's eleAion was ille
gal, have not only violated yous-rights, but
have treated them witlj. derision aad con
tempt. It is of some importance to the
feelings of the committee, but of much
greater importance to your interests, that
you (hotild duly appreciate this tranfaAion,
To enable you to do this with greater facil
ity, I (hall submit to you the following faAs
and observations.
When the committee was formed, nine
teen members of the Senate were present,
exclusive of the Speaker who is always ex
empted from serving on committees. From
this number of nineteen, each of the parties
(which coufifted of Mr. Israel and one of
the petitioners against the eleAion) were
permitted agreeably to law to llrike out fix.
Twelve member* feeing thus excluded, the
number remaining was reduced to seven,
who composed the committee to try the e
leAion.
It is obvious that this mode of forming
the committee, gaveto both parties the pow
er of excluding therefrom those members of
the Senate, whose principles, politics or
temper were mod disliked, or distrusted by
them. Of consequence if out of all the,
members present, seven candid and imparti-,
al men could be feleAed, fhey would be
found in this committee.
To suppose then that tht committee did
not consist ef men of virtuous charaAers,
would be to suppose that the Senate in gen
eral (chosen as it is by the colleAive voice
of the people of Pennsylvania) i» a fink of
corruption. Such a supposition would be
indeed reproachful to the Senate, but nolef*
so to the people of this state who elected
them. It would be to suppose that the peo
ple had ignorantly deserted, or basely be
trayed their dearest rights, by appointing a
colleAion of foels or knaves to admiflifter
one half of the Legislative- power of the
commonwealth.
The committee having been thi* fail Iy
formed'were solemnly sworn, to give a true
judgment on the tleAion, according to the
evidence. In addittion to their other
Legislative duties, they then proceeded to
fit from day to day on the tryal from the e
leventh of Deeember to the seventh of Fe
bruary, during this long and tedious investi
gation they patiently liltened to the elabo
rate and frequently Gonttntieus arguments
of the counsel on each fide ; examined all
the authorities and documents exhibited to
ibem ; and carefully attended to the -evi
dence brought forward by either party.
Judge then my fellow citizens how inconflf
tent it is with decency, justice and your in
terests, that a committee so constituted,
(hould after the conclusion of their painful
labours be loaded with reproach, unsubstan
tiated by proof or evidence: with reproach
that carries with it the charge of perjury,
and of a dercliAion of the mod sacred du
ties which they owe to you as their constit
uent*, and to themselves as men. Judge
whether it can be expeAed that committees
of this kind will alwayt dare to discharge
these important duties with firmnef*, if in
| consequence of so doing they are to be held
up as marks for the (hafts of party rage and
malice. r
If individuals who (hould feel disappoint
ed by the decision of a jury (hould endea
vour to hold them up to reproach and infa
my, would you not exclaim against the in
juftiee and danger of such an outraged
Would you not apprehend thatfuch proceed
ings if allowed to prevail, would induce men
attached to their peace and security, to re
fufe to perform these neeefiary funAions ;
or when performing them, frequently to be
terrified into decisions in favor of those par
tie* from whose fury they should have most
to apprehend? If this would be your decisi
on in cases where the interests only of indi
viduals are concerned are you not still more
obligated a* well as interested to proteA
those men who are your own
and on the faithful performance of whose
duties yonr most valuableright* must depend.
Let us then meet these pernicious and disin
genuous efforts with a just indignation and
thus endeavour to prevent the future annals
of our county from being Raised by a repe
tition of similar outrages.
A CITIZEN.
For the Gazette of the United States. V
THE DIGNITY OF GOVERNMENT—No.I It
Gtodfaith is the ("•ni of a free government ;
it itahov* all thingteffcntial to iti dignity and
uratioa : It ronmandi the esteem and the eon-
S.let.ee ef citizem, and foreign nationi ; it is
the magnet which attraftt all mindi and ope
rate* in every direction Its incAic.able worth
« attefied by all history, and by every wile
ftatrfman.
A government that vialates its own la wt,
tra&s, or ptomifei, sett the inalt dangerous and
corrupting exrrople to the people :o disregard
•ill principle, to defrjud the government of its
revenue, and to break all tbe sacred tit* which
unite and tnoralize a nation. History presents
a d eadful catalogue, and long as it is black, of
faithleft government!, «nd the mit"erie> and des
potism that followed their perfidy. Had Rome
and Carthage, ficredly adhered to the'pure max
i'ns of gooH faith t« *ll people, there is evfry
reason to helieve they mi™ht have continued
free ani happy republic! to tht* hour. Out
they ronfu'ted rtie interest of tic day arid led
by their piffions, always healed I>y parties, ihev
fell a facrifire to tl.eir fully auil their vices-
Such bus been the sale of the ancient and fecms
too likely to kt of tlie modern republics.
From this feuree, a doubtful or a bad charact
er for Rational faith, cajne wars, internal convul
tions, a discord between the people awl the go
vernment ; a general relaxation of all principle,
confufion follows, .in; l finally a fulltn del'p t'fm
fuccacds ; and thus the door cf hope is (hut a
gamft liberty.
The unvarying law of gravitation, is not more
eflential to the order and duration of the material
system, than a put e ckaruHir is to the perpetui
ty and happintfs of a free government.
Let Americans often pa«fe in their career,
and mark well the cuufcs which led other na
t ten * into the " paths ofike ittJlHyer". It will
be found, by eoiiful'ing the" faithful page of hif
torv, that the mighty taufe <it tire univeifal.nil"
.traction of sice. government* in tv.ry country
from theTeHMWtyperiod to this $Uy has beer,
'the lsfs of tbarii&er.
• ■Let us now lock round arid mark well the
progrefe and'the pbihis of.Mfe Sate, in J the n a
tion.il-geveruTnefiii'.
The comtitotions aVe riot only the best in the
wc-rM. but are fii'fficur.tly'perfeal to pre-
Tirrve liber)y and public happinels,if they (hall
be well ndminidered. The great difficulties
always atile in the administration,. During the
formation of the lyftem, the mtereds aid the paf
fionsofpartiesarenot so mtichaffefled; but when
the adnii»iflrat«rs commence their operations,
every interest and every passion is touched, apd
all the combudibles in human nature take fire.
Hence it is that no curb ever ytt formed by the
people could at all tidies keep their legislators
within the limit* of the constitution.
A large majority, (and often a small one) has
been able to fugged fuci plauGble exesfes (cal
led necessity for the public good,) for every devi
ation, that the people were not alarmed. One
deviation formed z precedent, the fee nd wasjuf
tified by the firft, ar.dby degrees the principles
of the conftimtion were annihilated. This faift
has beenacttded in every age and in every coun
try where republics have existed.
But who fears a Cafar th3t is dead, what na
tion lidens to the wisdom <Sf Solomon, or the
preaching of Paul, or to the voice of hiltory f
Do not generations fileccftivety walk over the
tombs o(their fathers forgetfulofthtM'own clef
tiny, arid tnoughtlefs of the long voyage of eter-i
nity ? Why then should we expefl men will
take warning from the bones cf ancient repub
lics, or the errors which led to their didslutiun !
The bed omen of future liberty, is a general
folic- so difi'ufe gospel morality, andjuft
ideas of government. A common error among
freemen is, ." that very little government is ne
the people never can with to injure
tbemfelves " Such talk as this is often heard
from seekers of popularity, and many good
people are deceived thereby. From this caufu
it is that there is iefs jealousy as che house of re
prefentitives, than of the i'enate, or the execu
tive. Our experience (iace the revolution con
firms this fa£t.
Had the fame (hides for power which we
have seen made by an house cf representatives,
been made by the I'enate, or the executive,would
not tbe alarm have been much greater ? This
(hows that the weak fides of our government
are the senate, and the executive These are
always the weaked branches in a republic, and
therefore require the aid of an enlightened peo
ple to fuppoi t »hem in the exercjfe ef their con
stitutional powers. Although it be neccflary to
watch every brar fh of government, it should
r.ot be with an evil eye to find faults, but with
an honed heart to guard with impartiality the
conditution j and to fugg.ft with candor the
abjections which reason seems to point out. In
performing this duty good and wife men will
never fuffer the evil spirit of pride or passion or
interest to guide their tongues or their pens.'
Natiens never would luvt been enflived, if
mens reason had been ftr«ngerthantheirpa(sons.
Here lies all our danger f not the countless des
pots whieb cover the earth, nor all tbedemon»
carnate and incarnate could edablilh an arbitra
ry government in America, if the rvason of
the people ftiould always re gn over their pas
sions. But nncontroulc'l paffi»ns, not ehecked
by religious sentiment, are a spark from hell, and
their operations are infernal—they burn out tbe
molality of the foul.
Uncivilized by the fear and 10-ve of God, mft>
will never be true republicans—they will be go
verned by their paffipni, and therefore they will
be tyrants.
A deady eye on eternity, and a belief that
" God will bring every work into judgement
whether it hath been good or whether it hath
been evil," is theonly regulator of life : This is
the compass the good man steers by whether ru
ler or citizen, and he feels the weight of the
duty assigned him in every (ituation.
It should be deeply engraven on the hearts of
republicans, that virtue and liberty are heavenly
fillers, if they part they die. That it is infinite
ly more dangerous to violate the laws, ahufe
their rulers,or indulge iif any %iees, than in a
monarchy, as their government derives its whole
existence direilly from them, and pure morals
ar? the foul of it.
A free government must be s bono ; the le
gislature enafi the laws after profound delibera
tion ; the judiciary forever have the principles
of the conditution and tSe laws in slear view ;
and the executive power move on, armed by
both, like a deep river whose current ferencly
bears down all obdruAions. Thus the energy
of a well " balanced government," prote&s the
equal rights of freemen, and perpetuates liberty.
ACIREMA.
From the American Daily Advcrtifir.
Messrs. Clay pool*,- ; .
In your Saturday*! paper I noticed with
attention the Report of the Secretary of the
Treasury, arnk an> happy to learn that out
public accounts are brought so nearly to a
close that the precise debt may soon be as
certained. On feeiug.this report, the claira
of some eitizeni for payment of New Emif
fion Bills, occurred to me, aitd a query a-
Tofe in my mind whether the fubjeft ought
net to be immediately enquired into by Con
gress, for if the claim is supported by gov
gOTernmental engagement let it be paid, and
if not let the cafe befairly dated to the pub
lic, that the good faith of our government
may not be brought into question by these
claimants.
It seems to .be a of importance in
this view, although the sum is not great ;
and I hope we (hail not pay interest upon an
immense national debt, and at thrfame time
have our faith and ctedit caUed in ques
tion. I should not Meffi;. Printers have
written any thing on this fubje&, had I not
seen in Fenno's paper of la ft Thursday, the
report of Secretary Hamilton on the fame,
with some re'mark* thereon. Ido not pro
fefs to know the nature of these obligations,
but as the late Secretary, asserts with confi
dence " that the Uaited States are bound to
pay the.iatcieft on them 119 til the principal
ftnll be paid," it seems neceflary that this
affair should be fully investigated, and a de
cision had upon it. To put off claims upon
the public from year to year, without invef
tigstion, tends to involve them in greater
difficulties, it often injures honest creditors,
and alio injures the reputation of govern
ment, and besides, it sometimes enables de
signing men to support, or at lead to give
plausibility to unjust claims.
A Friend to Government.
As we doubt not many of our readers are deti
rtus of knnwing what progress is made with
the Public Building! in the Federal City, we
lay before them the following report, lately
exhibited to Congress :
FEDERAL Ci*TY. !
Rtport of Jame9 Hoban, Superinsendant as
the Prcfident's Mouse, of the progress of
that building from the tßth of May last,
to the 18th Nov. 1797.
The stone work has been carried up from
the window heads of the 3dftory, to the le
vel of the roof, including the architrave,
frieze and- cornice, and all the materials pre
pared and set. The stone cutters are now
employed at the balustrade which finifhes
the stone work of the building.
The brickwork has ften carried up from
the window heads, the inside and filling of
the outside walls, and all the party walls to
the full height of the building, and the
chimniesare raised as high as the roof.
The buildingis roofed and boarded, ready
to receive the ilate ; the boarding is covered
with a coat of composition to protest the
roof and inside work from the weather.
There is now laid on the gutters and plat
forms about 33,000 weight of lead, which,
with about 5,000 weight that is already
prepared, and yet to be laid, will complete
the gutters, platforms, and water carriages.
The doors of the two principal (lories are
all framed, and some of them are pannelled ;
the inside work is in great forivardaefs.
JAMES HOBAN.
Report of what progress has been made on
' the building of the Capitol from the 18th
1 of May last, to the 18th inlt, November,
1797 ; also of what materials are on
hand.
The free-ftone work outfide is rai
sed as high as the top of the Corinthian ca
pitals all round the building, aj>d on the
north fide, as high as the architrave of the
principal order which is within II feet of
the whole height, so that p«rt of the enta
blature and balhiftrade, are only wanting to
complete the whole of the intended elevati
on. The brickwork is also raised as high
as the roof, and the naked flooring of the
building is almost entirely laid, the roof will
shortly ba fiuifhed, and may be laid in its
plaee before the ensuing spring, when the
interior finifhing may be commenced for the
completion of the building.
Dimen/ioni, &e. Feet.
Average height of the free-ftone rai
sed this season 36
Total from the foundation wall, 57
Average height of brick work raised
this season - 35
Total from the foundation wall, 56
Naked flooring laid in 12 rooms
Ditto, do. in galleries 4,
Materials on Hand.
Worked free-ftone, 1158 feet retn'g.
Unworked do. 1046 ton,
Column bricks for Senate
roonf 595°
Place do. 70000
Stone lime . 300 bulkels.
Oak legs, 124 in number
Ditto joifls, 400
Flooring nlank and mer-1
charitable ditto, C 3+°°°
GEORGE HADFIELD.
—«•—
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY F€BRUART 20.
Mr. Hartley moved that the petition
which he yesterday presented from the mer
chants of this city, refpedting the ereftion
of new piers in the Delaware, he referred
to the secretary of the treasury, as he found
from enquiry, that this would be the pro
per reference in the firft instance. -
Mr. Dwight Foster made an unfavorable,
report on the petition of Guillaume Van
Ranfelaer, and others, which was concur
red in by the house.
On motion of Mr. T). Foster, the house
resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole, on the report of the committee of
claims, on the expediency or inexpedi
ency of excepting certain claims from the
operation of ads of limitation ; and after
concurring in the unfavorable report of the
committee of claims, or the petition of
Johannes E. Lot, the committee rose (these
decifipns which had taken place having in
cluded the principles of all the referenced
made to this committee of the whole J and
had not leave to (it again.
Mr. Dawfon moved to refer the petition of
Edmund Brooke, which had been referred
to the above committee, should be referred
to the committee of .claims.—Agreed.
, Mr. J). Foster called for the second read- I
i(tg and decifloo on the unfavorable report
of the committee of claims, on the peti
: tionpf Joseph Gofs, which was according
' ly done, aud the house concurred in the re
port.
Mr. Venable, from the committee of
privileges, reported the opinion of the
said committee, that the resolution referred
to them, proposing the expulsion of Roger
Grifwold and Matthew Lyon, ought not
to be agreed to. The evidence, which was
tak' n befipre them was also reported, but
not read.
On a motion to read the report a second
time being made,
Mr. Venable said that one of the feleft
committee (Mr. Rutledge, who was to-day
indisposed) had requested that the buGnrfs
might not be taken up to-day, but that it
might be deferred till to-morrow.
Mr. Sitgreaves fuggelled the propriety
of printing the evidence in the mean time,
which would prevent any delay in the busi
ness.
Mr. Kittera thought thi« unn#ceffary, at
the fact to be afcertaiiied had been done in
the face of fc» great a part of the house, it
would be an unnecessary exprnce to print
the evidence.
Mr. Sitgreavfs said, a» it had been tho't
necessary to take the evidence, it woultffure
ly be proper that every membel (hould have
it before him;
Mr. M'Dowell allowed that the disorder
which this evidence went to substantiate was
pretty well known in the house ; yet he
hoped the papers wonld be pristed.
Mr. Harper said, though many members
were unfortunately present whfn the affair
happened to which the evidence referred {
many however were not in the house, and
those would wilh to fee the evidence ; he
himfelf was not present, abd wiftfed to fe«
it. He hoped therefore it would be prin
ted.
The motion for printing was put and car
tied.
Mr. Harper then moved to postpone the
unfinifhed bufincfs relative to foreign inter
coitrfe until Monday nex|t, as he wiftitd it
to be deferred until the report of the com
mittee of privileges was decided upon.
Mr. Gordon would agree to the postpone
ment, if the gentleman from S. Carolina
would alter his motion to Thursday, in (lead
of Monday.
Mr. Harper consented, and the post
ponement wos agreed to.
On motion of Mr. Harper, the house
then refo'lved itfelf into a committee of th*
whole on the bill for altering the manijer of
entering stills, and after some debate on_ the
fubjeft, the committee rose aad had leave to
fit again.
A tneffage was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, with an account
of the expenditure of certain sums appro
priated on the 3d of March lad, for prose
cuting claims against the Belligerent nations
which have spoliated upon our c6rtrmtrCi?. J —
Ordered to bs printed.
The house then went into a Committee «f
the whole, on the bill providing for the*fup
port of the widows and orphans of certain
deceased officers, and having agreed to it
without amendment, the committee rose
and reported accordingly. The bill was
then ordered to be engrossed for a third rea
ding to-morrow.
The house took tip the report of the
committee of the whole on the bill for the
relief of Oliver Pollock; and after some de
bate upon it, concurred in the report (which
was a difagreemeat to the bill for his relief)
49 to 36.
Adjourned. •
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE\
HeesE
February 9.
Hugh White, Esq. from the country of
Lycoming appeared this day, received-thf
constitutional oath, and took his feat.
Mr. S. Maclay presented a petition from
a number of the inhabitants of NorthumherJ
land, Mifflin and Lycoming, praying, that
the road frojn Reading to th# town of Eri< g
may be completed. Referred to the com
mittee of roads and inland navigation.
Mr. Srailie pre Tented a petition from a
numlterof the inhabitants of Fayettecounty,
praying that a company may be incorporate
ted, to erect a ' toll bridge over the Yor.g
hiogany river, at Connelloville, where the
state road cruffes, which was referred.
Mr. S. Maclay presented a petition from
a uumbcr of the inhabitants of Lycoming,
praying, that the jwrifdiftion of Common
Pleas, quarter Sefiions, and Orphan's Court
may be reftorcd to the justices of the peace
under a county Resident. as formerly, and
that the bench fees may be so regulated,
as to afford them adequate Compensation
for their attendance. Referred to a special
committee. "
Mr. Bonnet presented a petition from
the inhabitants of Bedford of a similar
tenor.
Mr. Frailey presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of Berks county,
praying that «' a law may be passed to a«-
thonze the Governor to incorporate a com
pany for the purpose of making a turnpike
road from the city of Philadelphia though
Germantown and Reading to th# ri/er
Schuylkill"—Ordered to lie on the^able.
The committee on ways and means, ha
ving obtained leave, reported(in part) viz.a
bill, entitled," Ait aft to provide for the
fafe keeping of the arms contrasted for by
the governor for the use of this common
wealth. " Ordered to.lie on the table.
The letter from Peter Bayntun, treafur«r
of this state, received January Bthlaft, was
read the second time, and referred to the
committee of ways and means.
The bill, entitled, " An aft to incorpo
rate a company for making an artificial roacj
from Philadelphia through Germantown ta
the twelve mile stone, on »he Reading road,
Bcc. was refened to the committee who re
ported the fame.
The houft was informed, that the Senate
had passed the bill entitled, '• An aft incor
porating the society for the relief of distress
ed pilots," See. with amendment*, to which
its concurrence was requeued.
The hnufr proceeded to the eonfideration
of the bill, entitled, «• An aft extending the
powers of the judges of the supreme court
and common pleat," and having cotne to bo
determination. Adjourned.
FOR SALE, I
A quantity of CALF SKINS, in the rougk,
and fame horse leather. Applv t»
KOHERT SMITH £5" Co.
No. 581 South Front ftrect.
Feb. li. . 4iw■ II ■ ■» mmmf 1
wwiiim **** * * I'l—*l. i »M mUMW • i
Xt)e <^asette»
/ 1 - ■ ■■■■ 1
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY BVENING, /£RRVAftT z<. \
To the ElcSort aj the city of Philadelphia.
At a meeting of the Judges and Infpeft
ars vf the EWtion, for the city of Philadel
phia, at the Mayor's Office, on the 19th in- ,
Rant, it determined, to open the ele£t- '
ion which « to be held in the said city on I
the izd in/lant, for the choice of a Senator
precisely at to o'clock in the morning.—
For the information as well of the Judges
and Infpeftors as ofEle&ors, the Attorney-
General has on application of the Judges
and Infpedtors communicated the following
Questions as proper to be asked of pcrfons
of whose right of voting the Infpettors
ftould eotertain doubts : via.—
" First, Are you a native of the state of
Pen»fylvania, or of any other of the United
-States, yd have you ever sworn allegiance
toany foreignpower, State,, or sovereignty ?
" Second, have you taken an oath or
affirmation of allegiance to the state of Peiin
fylvania, or any othet of the United States
and thereby became a citizen previous to
th« 26th of March, 1790, or have you been
naturalized according to'the atts ofCon
grefs ?'
" Third, Have you rcMed within this
state t)eo years next before this cleftion, and
have yoo within that time paid a state or
county tax ?
JARED INGERSOLL."
By,order of th« Judges and Infpeftors,
aforefaid, «
HILARY BAKER,"
one of'the Judges.
At!a refpefitable meeting of the electors
of the townlhips of Lower Dublin, Bybury
and Moreland, convened by public notice
at the hotife of John Segar, Innkeeper in
Buftleton, "011 Tueiday the 20th of Feb.
for the piirpofe of nominating a fuitabje
person to.be run as Senator at the snfuing
ele£hop on the 22nd inft.
Jonathan Scholfield Esq.
in the Chair,
Reviewing with deep regret the injury we
as citizens sustained by thenumber of ille
gal vote* taken at the last general ele&ion,
which, with the dispersion of many of the
good citizens, who were prevented from
■voting by the afflifting difordax then raging
in PhiladelpiSa, we believe to have been the
eaufe of that truly patriotic citizen Benjamin
R. Morgan not being re-elected a Senator,
and as our gratitude for his past services and
confidence in his disposition to promote our
interest in the Legislature in future is not
leflened thereby, therefore, resolved unani
nJoufiy that we will support the said Benja
min R. Morgan with our votes at the ensu
ing eledtion on Thursday next the 22nd inft.
Jonathan Scholfield chairman.
John M'Clellan, See'y.
At a meeting of a number of refpeftahle
citizens oftheDiftrifit of tht Northern Li
berties of the city of Philadelphia, at the
house of Samuel Gano, on the »cth of Fe
bruary, 1798, it was unanimously agreed
to support Benjamin R. Morgan, at the en
suing election, as Senator for the diftri&,
composed of the city and county of Phila
delphia arfd county of Delaware,
And whereas, at a meeting of certain ci
tizens of the Northern Liberties, at the
town house, on the 17th iaft. the preamble
to their resolution f#ts forth that the vaca
tion of the feat of the said Israel Israel, is
a poftration of the riglrta of the citizens:
" Resolved, That it is the unanimous o
pinion of this meeting, that the committee
of the Senate, who tried the Conteftsd E
le&ion of the said Ifrati Israel, for their im
partial and judicious conduit on that occafi
6n, receive the thanks of this meeting for
their just and prompt decision, and that a
ny attempts to vilify their proceedings, are
derogatory to the American character, and
a real prostration of the right* of the eiti
kens. .
SAMUEL WHEELER, Chairman.
Joi m Tjtloi, See'ry.
At ameetingofa numberof refpeftable eiti
■ensof Dock ward, at thehoufe of P. Evans,
Resolved, That it is the unanimous sense
of this meeting, to support Benjamin R.
Morgan at the enfuing.Ele&ion, as Senator
for the Diftrift of Philadelphia city and
county and the county of DelawaKand that
we will use our best endeavours to preserve
peace and good order at said Eleftion.
JOSEPH LOWN.ES, Chairman.
Seth Willis, Sac'ry.
Philadelphia, Feb. 20.
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Philadelphia, at the house of William
Pennock, in South Mulberry ward, on
Tuesday evening, February 20th, 1798,
John Rugan in the chair.
The meetisg taking into consideration
the invaluable right of fuffrage in a fre< go
vernment, and being deeply impressed with
thejndecent and groundlefsrefleftioni, which
have appeared in several of the daily papers
of this city, against the dtcifron of the com
mittee of the Senate of this state, who were
the purpose of trying the consti
tutionality of the late election of Israel Israel
it was
Unanimously resolved, That highly ap
proving of the principles which confine the
right of fuffrage to citizens by birth and by
adoption, as secured by the Constitution,
and confirmed by the determination of the
said Committee, wc will each and every of
us use the utmost of our influence and legal
exertions to support Benjamin R. Morgan
at the ensuing election for Senator, in con
sideration of his long and tried services, in
public life, and the faithful aad honorable
discharge of the several duties with which
he has been entrulled.
JOHN RUGAN, Chairman.
~J»nsihan Jtnu t Set,ry.
At a meeting of a large number of citizen!
at thehoute of John l)unwoody,on Mon
day evening, 19th February, Mr. An
drew Tybout in the Chair, Jacob
Chryftler, Secretary.
Resolved Unanimously, That from our
knowledge of the integrity, patriotism, and 1
abilities of Benjamin R. Morgan, we will
use the utmost of our endeavours to support
him at the ensuing clrftion for Senator of
the Diftridt, composed of the city and coun
ty of Philadelphia and the county of Dela
ware.
ANDREW TYBOUT, Chairman.
Ja-cob Ch&ystlek, Secretary.
- . I
At a meeting of a number of the citizens at !
the house of Mr. Phillip Timmons, on
Monday, 19th February 1798, James
Crawford, Esq. in the chair, and Hugh
Holmes, Secretary,
It was unanimously resolved to support the j
Ele&ion of Benjamin R. Morgan, on Thurf- j
day next. 1
• JAMES CRAWFORD, Chairman.
Hugh Holmes, Secretary.
At a meeting of a number of the citizens j
of Derby and its vicinity, at the house of ■
Mr. Samuel Ash, on Monday the 19th 1
instant, 1
It was unanimously resolved to support !
Benjamin R. Morgan at the ensuing eleiSti- j
on as Senator for the Diftrift, composed of 1
the city and county of Philadelphia and the
county of Delaware ; and that the citizens :
attending the meeting will individually give |
hira all the support in their power.
HUGH LOYD, Chairman.
Nathan I el Newlin, Secretary.
- 1
At a very large and refpe&able meeting
of the merchants, mechanics and other e
ledtors of the city and county of Philadel
phia at the city tavern on the 17th Februa
ry, 1798,,
GEORGE LATTMER, Chairman,
THOMAS ROSS, Secretary,
It was unanir.ioufly resolved, " That the
citizens composing this meeting, will, to j -
the utmost of their power, exert themselves
individually to promote the elc&ion of ,
Benjamin R. Morgan asfenator for this dif- ;
triS ; and they do pledge themselves to '
come forward with their votes and interest ,
in his behalf or»the day of the said ele&ion,
and recommend him to their fellow citizens,
as a proper chara&er for the said office.
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman, :
Thomas Rojs, Secretary.
(
At a meeting, of a number of the inhab- ,
itants of Delaware county, at the house of ,
William Anderfon, in the borough of Chef- ]
ter, February 17th, 1798,
It was resolved, with only one difTenting 1
voice, to support Eenjamin R Morgan at i
the ensuing election, for a senator for the 1
diftrift eompofed of the city and county of ]
Philadelphia, and the county of Delaware. 1
ELISHA PRICE, Chairman,
Wm. Martin, Secretary. i !
At a meeting of a refpeftable number of 1
citizens, held on Saturday evening, Febru
ary 17th, at St. Mary's school-house, for '
the purpose of confultiog on a proper per
son to represent them in the Senate of this
State, John Leamy in the chair,
It was resolved unanimously to support
Benjamin R. Morgan, at the Ele&ion to be
held on Thursday next, the 22d inft.
JOHN LEAMY, Chairman. ,
Attest, Edward Cairsll, See'ry.
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Southwark, and townlhip of Moyamenfing,
at the house of* Mr. James Cameron, in
Shippen street, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted.
Resolved, that this meeting taking into
consideration the virtues, talents, and patri- 1
otifm of Benjamin R. Morgan, do a-,
gre,e to support him individually as Senator
at the ensuing eleftion, being fully convinc
ed that he will use his utmost exertions to
support the laws and constitution of the U
nited States, as well as of the State of
Pennsylvania.
JOSEPH BIRD, chairman
Clement Humphreys junr. Set'y.
February 16th 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the Citizens
of the Diftri& of Southwark, and town
ship of Moyamenfing, at the tavern of Capt.
John Rice, Mr. Joshua Humphreys in tht
chair
Refolded, That we will use our utmost «x
ertions to support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at the ensuing ele&ion of Senator to repre
sent the city and county of Philadelphia,
and county of Delaware ; being convinced
that at this time, peculiarly important, and
interesting to all the advocates of the ad
ministration of the government of the U
nited States, to support thofewho are known
to be the friends of order and good govern
ment, is a measure which our duty compels
us to adopt.
JoJhua Humphreys, Chairman.
Peter Miertke*, See'ry.
14th Feb. 179!-
At a meeting of a number of tht Cilizent of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden'i
Tavern, on Tuesday, 13 th February, 1798,
it Kvaj unanimously resolved.
To support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at th'e ensuing Eleftion, as Senator for the
Diftriet, composed of the city and connty
of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman.
M. Keppele, Secretary.
The managers of the City Dane
injf AfTrmbly give notice that on accoant of an fc
le&icn to bo held »>n TKurfd-y the aid ir.ft. the
Ball in honor of Gkorgi Washington's birth,
it poftoncd to Friday tke 23d instant.
l,adi*» and are rrqucded to deliver
their Cardi of 'nr:: * at tte doer.
Feb. 17. §*334
E&Bors of the City and County of Philadcl- .
phia—BeiFjiKF. I
The o.prt rw of Mr. \ organ, defpairirg of
fucccfs by fair and lienor. hie ra.aV, it is hinted,
will have recouifc to others as kjft in them'elves,
as they arc fjlvafive of the* rights cf freemen
Among the many niachiiiii'ious which will be at
tempted on the eUelion ground to-morrow, the
si llowing is toke I'ciupaloufly guarded against
Tickets are by the friends of Israel israel
in the name of Benjamin omitting the
letter R. which is the initial of his fecoud chriflian
name, and without which a vo-e would be loft.
These tickets, under the of friendlhip to Mr.
Morgan are, if poflibler, in t>"e coafufion of the
occafiun, to'be placed in the huaJs of his real '
irien s, by means of which th/ir «otes, howevr
well intended , wtij be thrown away. It i»rrcom- 1
mended to the supporters o: Mr. Morgan, to come
prepared with t.ckcti surly a»4fatty ■writttu, and
where this is inconveni: nt. that appli
cations for tfeni tp fueh pcrforn. only Br re«f uii
fufpeded integrity, and whose real charaAcrs are
known to the applicants v
Electors, kt firm ! be vigilant t impressed with
a sense of the imporiarce of the occasion, and the
digaity »f the part you ar- to sustain, appear f a
fonably at your post j remember the letter R. and
the elcilioa is secure.
MR. FSNN3,
Utterly dil'regarJing and despising the ground
less inuendoes of citizen Leib and citizen Barker,
againll the friands of Mr. Morgan, I wilh to
warn people of every political persuasion against
the dangerous and tallacious expectation of eife-dt- t
ing any valuable purpsfeaby aits of violence on
the eleislion ground. Let us pravc that Cluk-Law ;
is gone forever. The decided and iadubitable su
periority of the Federalist enables them to hold
their enemies too much in contempt t* ;ffume
weapons as a precaution. Aad the Jacobins have ;
an opportunity to convince us, that however de
tcftable their prppenfities, they are not yet became
so beaflified—fo Frenchified, as to bear clubs to i
thecle&ion ground, to curtail the freedom ol fuf
frage, and batter the brains of their neighbors and
fellow-citizens Every man who appears on the
ele&ion-ground, with a club, bludgeon, or (lick,
will jnftly be deemed a dillarber ol the public re
pofc, and an enemy to liberty , MILO.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Tq the Elc£lors of the Senatorial Diftridt.
Friends and Fellow Citizens,
To-morrow will be an important day—it
will decide a question of great magnitude to
united America—this question is no other
than whether we are a divided people ? It
is not disputed but that there is a difference
of sentiment among us upon of a po
litical nature, such difference will always ex
ist in every free country ; but if there is a
decided majority, that majarity constitutes
the people, for the minority in a tepublic
must always submit to the public will ex
prefled by the greater number of vcicet and
where it is not submitted to, anarchy must
take place. The friends of the two candi
dates have joined an,iffue to be tried by the
country. Those of Israel alfert that the
people, that is, a decided majority of the Elec
tors are in favor of the politics of Jefferfon,
Monroe, Randolph, and the other adherent!
of France who are ready to surrender our
independence to that nation and have fixed
on areprcfentative openly profefling the fame
political creed. The friends of Morgan de
ny this position and have fixed on a reprefeti
tative who with them profeffet that Ameri
ca is an independent people pofTefling the
right to govern themselves by laws of their
own making without the controul of any fo
reign nation, to make treaties and compose
differences with other slates without the in
terposition of foreign public ambafTadors or
secret emissaries. The. eledtort of the city
and counties of Philadelphia and Delaware
are to give a verdift upon the important
question, and it is to be hoptd that every
person entitled to vote will put himfelf to
the trouble -of carrying his ballot to the
place of election within his diftriit, that the
truth may be once for all fully ascertained,
for I trust that this being done all real or
pretended republicans will quietly submit to
the eCent and that we (hall no more hear of
fatStion or party, or division among us.
I do not mean to infiuer.ee a single elector,
but to press upon every individual pofTefling
the right, to come forward and give his vote
for one or other of these two candidates, all
parties having agreed that the sum total on
both fides will give the true sentiments of
the people. Let no maij therefore excuse
himfelf with the light apology that he has
but one vote; for no man Jn the eommuni
ty has mijre than one, and if such excuse is
fufficient for one it is equally good for a hun
dred or a thousand others.
Let the aged, the infirm, the meek and
peaceable citiz«ns go early in the day, and
those who have flrength of body to bear the
inclemency of the season wait till thefirft have
given their votes, the business of the day
may be thus conducted with good order and
without th?t press which might beoccafion
cd by all crowding to the windows at the
fame time.—l am your
FELLOW CITIZEN.
7*o the Freemen of the city and eminty of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Delaware.
FELLOW-CITIZENS,
A late decifidn of the senate having de
clared the e'edtion of Israel Israel as a mem
ber of their body to have been illegal, and
consequently void, you have another oppor
tunity offered vou of exercising one of the
molt valuable right* which freemen can pos
sess, and by the exercifeof it, at this time,
the world will determine, whether you are
genuine citir-ens cf the United States, and of
course the friends of good order and regular
government, «r whether you will be likely to
prefer' the y»ke of foreign power to the
weight and care attendant upon felf-govern
ment. It does net at this time appear to
be a proper question, whether the private
character of Israel Israel can with any de
gieeof justice be put in competition with
that of his opponent : admitting them
both to be equally good, for argument fake,
a question of a far more important natuie
to the public will then occur, upon the de
cision of which every good citizen, every
confidence man, poflefTed of a mind inde
pendent enough to put out of the (jueltion
party views, or to --dived itfelf of all par
tiality, resulting from habits of intimacy,
and social intercourse, ought and neccflaii
ly will, aft upon this very important cmcr
! gene jr. T'ye question I allude to is, which
I of the two candidates is bed calculated to
represent with propriety in Icglflative con
cerns, the important interests of so refpetfta
ble a diftrifl, as that in which we reside ?—*•
And here I am bold to aflVrt, without tlie
lea ft apprehension of a deaial, that no com
parison can fairly be made between tlie two
individuals, who, at this time, are felt-died
as objefts "from which to make a choice.
The excellent and careful education of Ben
jamin R. Morgan, the opponent upon this
( occafioa of Mr. Israel, his early studies,
; his habits of intimacy with people of liter
ary charqdter, the great intercourse which
he has at all times with persons confpi
cuoas for their talents and information, may
all with propriety be considered, as precious*
requisites in the .formation of an ufeful pub
lic charadler.
Nothing of this can,-I believe, bt advanc
ed in favor of Mr. Israel, or if he has had
any of these he appears to
have profited very little by them, if we may
judge from his cooduA, firice he has been
known as a citizen of Philadelphia. He
never has appeared as a prominent charac
j ter amongst his fellow-citizens, except in
turbulent times, when he has been made use
of by others, more cunning and equally
mischievous with himfelf, as a ladder to their
; individual promotion. In such times, he
has ever been esteemed the favorer of anar
chy, thefvpporter of sedition : his feeble ef
j forts have been directed to the introdu&ion
of disorder into the slate, and no means
: have been neglefted, that promised success
in promoting the views of the party, with
which he adted. I wi(h not to keep out of
view his services during the prevalence of a
malignant fever in this city—it entitled him
to the laud of humanity, and will be remem
bered to his honor, whilst a trace of that
dreadful scourge to the inhabitants of this
city remains. But the exertions of others,
who were fortunate enough to be removed
from t£e icene of immediate danger, was
also praise worthy, though perhaps in alefs
degree. The Stuation of Mr. Israel as one
of the committee of distribution, entrusted
during the last summer with the handing out
the charitable fubferiptions in favor of the
distressed poor, has no doubt been the means
of procuring him many votes ; and wheth
er the individuals, who partook of the
charities of their more fortunate brethren,
always distinguished the fource.from which
the bounty flowed, may at least be question- j
ed. But waving any further inquiry !
into a line of condudt, which, if faithful- '
ly pursued at a religious duty, is no doubt j
highly recommendatory,and wouldhave due !
weight if urged as a qualification in a candi- 1
date for the appointment ps a manager of
the Hospital, or guardian ef the poor, but
could by no meant furnilh proofs of his fit
nefs for lcgiflative fundtions, upon what o
ther ground, can he reft his claimto the votes
of the thitiking part of the community ? Is
it his devotednefs to a partyi boldly laying
claim to exclujive patriotism? Certainly upon
this ground he is not entitled to fupport—
for to Americans accustomed to judge of
men, more fromjheir adlions than their de_
clarations, this claim mull certainly be re
jedted ; for Men, who could applaud the
conduit of Genet, or any other foreign mi
niftcr, when insulting their country in the
person of their beloved chief magi/Irate, can
know little of that love of country, so es
sentially requisite in a Patriot. Such men
may lay claim to the wages of a foreign fac
tion, but are devoid of the principles which
form the character, ar.d, of course, unde-
Terving of the name of good citizens. Is
it his exertions to allay the uneasiness, which
existed in the western parts of this State,
with refpedt to a certain law of the United
State* in the year 1794, or his pious wilhes
for the fafe return to their wives and families
of that part of the community, who, justly
thinking, that the peace and dignity of their
country depended upon a steady support of
its laws, and a due performance of their se
veral duties as citizens, facrificed with alac
rity their domestic cemforts, and in lieu
thereof rifqued the dangers of a campaign,
and the inconveniences of a soldiers life,
which can entitle him to this mark of confi
dence from his fellow citizens? Certainly
not —for his conduit and his exprefiioßS at
that time juttified the attempts of. those,
1 who seemed piepartd had circumstances fa
vored them u to ride in the whirlwind and
diredt the storm."
In fliort the more the public charafter of
■ this man is analysed, the more unfit lam
I sensible, he will be decreed to occupy the
place, to which his ambitious views, and
: the baneful projedts of his party point, and
to the attainment of which every nerve will
be {trained, and every effort made. Upon
the friends, therefore, of their country
upcti the fopporters of a good and regular
government, founded upon the authority of
the people, and in contradiction to the male
- volence and misrepresentation of a certain .
' set of factious men, to whom all Jcinds of
' government, not exclusively vested i» them
selves, it exceptionable, and in a word upon
all these who with ta be luffercd to lit down
and enjoy themfelvti under their own vines
> and their own tig ti*ees, without having any
' one to make them afraid,(it i» peculiarly in
cumbent to exert themselves in support of
Benjamin R a Morgan, a man of tried prin
-1 ciplc and acknowledged ability.
A PHILADELPHIA!*.
1 A letter cf the 3 if! December 'aft, received by a
refpedable merchant Norfolk, fr«m Guern
lejr, t rough by the Flora, crpt. Colley, layi—
•• Your Cotrmiflioners are not received or ac
knowledged by the brsnch republic, and there is
no profpi-<3 ef matters being tmic-bly adjuftctl
between the two republics."
• Extrafl of a letter from a re'peflable merchant in
Baltimore, to hit cornfpondent in this city, da
ted the 17th inft.
i " I participate in your indignation agtiiji alllltf*
vh« have joined to keep Lyan in his feat; it was
difj>raceful to our public councils, to have the bu
firefs debated at all, —had they immediately ex
pelled him. it might have removed the (lain cast
upoathcrc by the disgraceful circumflance."
. APPOINTMENT—by authority*
Robert Rowan, of FayittevilJc in
North-CaroWa, to be owntru'llioner of fji; 13
for that state in the place of Wiljlla) Skin,
ner, dcceafed.
Extra<S of a letter from a jrentleman at Boflon t(i.
his fri-nd inthijcitr, dated Feb Ij.
" A vessel has this day arrived fio'm M,m
pa. She failed from thence about the roiVie
of January, h .ving only z8 day. paffjgp. Ihe
captain fays be saw an exrrafl of a letter fe},„
Paris, to a merchant in Malaga, dated lXc.-
27) which dated,- that our CommilXoners We Ic'
then at Paris, but had not been received- 1 hi*
n* as all that re atcd to us ; and it comport!
with my expeditions. They will by oegreea
coo! down in apprara»ee after having trcatti
hs with all poiftble contempt and insult."
MARRIED—La.'I Monday evening, by tie
Rev. Mr. Uttick, Mr. Hugh Andrews, of th'S
city, to Mils Jkmima Van-bd«n, us i'riftot.
La It evening, the ammbjo Miss Saliv
Almack, to Mr. Charles Ntico, .both of
city, and lately from Eugland,
DIED Yaun.ul, an eminent preaci.tr
ameng the people called Quakers.
A spirit of turbnlence and tyranny itill charac
terizes die partisans of Israel. A meeting nf ths
friends to order hai. bein convened atOxford towu
flup, for the purpofeof agreeing in the choice o! a
candidate f«r the office of Senator, at the ensuing
elcdion : they had chefen their chairman and Xc
cretary ; when the neeti.ig was rudely and vio
lently diffobed by an irruption of the partisans of
Israel and confuEon, who having, undilturbed, vf
fe&ed the purpt.fe ot their own meeting at Do*
ver s, on the other fide of the Creelc, could not
feparato without forcibly invading the lights us
others, alfembled in U>e quit and peaceable eaer
cife of an iindott itcf Ti;if-.t. Tyranny, foul Ty
ranny, marks, every movement of thefs pretended
friends to liberty and rep'uMicanifin.
Further extralls ftm A'Mum Prnn'j addreft
to a/1" the F.lcSou 0/England" m 1679.
" Consider with yourfelvcs, that there it
nothing mare your incereft, than for yon to un
derstand yaur right in the governmer.t, .or ysur
well-being depends up n its piefcrvation.
Since at a pinch one good man gains a vote,
and laves a country —And what does any-cotn
try know, but all inay depend upon their male
ing a good choice ? But then to fell the Provi
dence ef God, and the dear bought purrhafe erf
your ancefiors for a iittle money, is the mark of
a wretched mind. Trulyfuch ought not U. have
the power ef a freeman, that would In abuse his
own, and hazard other men's freedom \vf it i
He deserves to be cast over-board that would
fuffer the veflel to fink and thereby drown the
company embarked with him.
I would ktrow if any of you all, if in a differ
ence about a private property, an house or a
cow, or any other thing, you wou'd be eal'y, in,-
d fferent and careless in chufing your arbitra
tors ?,Certainly you would not: With what
reason then can you lie unconcerned in the qual
ification of men, upon Whose fitsefs and integ
rity depends all you and your posterity may
enjoy ?
The reprefentativea of a nation ought to con
fid of the most wife, sober and valiant of the
people; not men <f mean spirits, or fordid
paflisns, that would fell the interett of the
people that chufe them to advance their own >
Pray beware of these.
Have a care of ambitious men, who seek
honor* and preferments, for they intend them
selves and not ihe advantage of the country.
Chufe no indigent person ; for these may be
under a temptation ofabuling their trust, to
gaiit their own ends : For such do not prefer
you, whieh Ihould be the end of their shoice,
but to raise themfelvcs by you.
Chufe no prodigal or voluptuous persons ; for
hefides that they are not regu'ar enough to be
law makers, they are cojrmonly idle; and
thongh they may wish well to your intcreft, yet
they Will lose it rather than their pleal'ures—
So that such perfens are only to be preferred
b-forr thdfe that are fiber to do mifebief: whose
debauchery is of the mind ; men of unjust and
liuifter principle. ; who the soberer, they be to
themselves, tie worse they aretoymi; rather
takes Itranger if r. commended by an unqucf
tior.able hard than such a neighbor ill affefled
to yaur intercft.
At a numerous and refpeftable meeting of ci
tizens of Philadelphia, held at the house of
George Hill, in North Mulberry ward, to con
sider ef a proper perl'on to be supported at the
ensuing elediion, on Thursday the nd infl. aa
Senator for ihefirft Pennsylvania diftriit, Denj,
Frank'in Bache was called to the chair Theo
dore Mem ngi-r, Secretary.
Queitions wi*e severally fHt upon to two per
fjlns h eld up as candidates for the said feat j
when it appeared, that Ilrael Ifratl had fifty-five
votes, Benj. R. Morgan seven. It was therefore
Uefilved, that Israel Israel be fuppottedat
the ensuing eleflion as senator for the I'eat va
cated by a derikon of t'le committee of the
fetiaie. BENJ. F. B ACHE, Chairman.
Tbeodwe Memingrr, Sec'ry.
*«* A few word> more to Citizen Monroe, by
a new hand, will he" brought fcrw.ird thu laement
Citizen Ilrat-1 is difparxhed
Broker's Office,
No. T4O Ch'Tm t, ahov« Fourth ttreet.
GEORGE TAYLOR, jun.
HaVIN© I j the advice of his friends com*
n enced th- bufine's of BROKER, inform*
the public, that he is now ready, and
would be happy to cl'mte their commands. He
ferniftes money on loan, buys and fells all kinds
of Bank and other Public Stock, &£, &c. at the
ufnal comrciifion.
tJT Iht Fren handS- anifh Larvguaeret tranf
lat?d fidelity and dispatch. And the requi
site papers prepared for obtaining Letters Patent
under the a A for promoting the progress of uft
ful arts —.Apply as above.
F bruary 21 at
Mr. Francis,
Refpeilfully informs his Scholar* and the Pub
lic in general, that his fifth Practicing Ball will
be on TburTday the aid ; and >h« fubferibers to
hit Select Balls, that th« firft rf the locond f«h
fcription will be oq I'uefday the 27th.
TERMS
Eich Subscriber to pay Five Dollar', which
entitles himtoa jrentleman's ticket, and cards of
admillion for two ladies at. each ball
The firft ball to be on Tuesday, the 10th of
Fel-ruiry, and tube continued every Tuesday
till the end of the fubfo i t tion, at the Ad of
which Mr. Francis proposes giving an extra hall
to the fubfcribcrs.
Mr. FRAKCrs also informs thoft, gen
tlemrn whs have not already subscribed, th*t
the plan of fuhfeiption is to be seen at /rtr.
F.'s house, No. 7® North i ighth ftrect.
Feh.-1. '
FORJJLE, '
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including I-ong Primer, about 400 w> ighr, in
good condition, and would ai fwer the purpofs at
a country Printer at well as n*w.
Enquire of the Prist*.JUST RECEIVED,
J emit
AND JO* SALE, AT
VV. Young's Book-store, f" v j
C»n of Ch-fnnt a«d Second ftre.ts, P<"
( Prift 50 C'ntj)
Cavfcs qui fc font oppofees aux f Klc ,
I'r.grei du commerce, entre L K FKANCE et les
E 1 ATS-UNIb Ue L'AMERIQUK. <
Aree lti Moyenn de l'accelerer ; choi
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de l'Angletcrre. de la Trance, and des jerv
ETATS-UNIS. futp
In lix Lettrea, addreffSes a Monsieur le Mar- con
quis de LX Fayette. Traduit fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglait du Colonel SWAN, anclen * u °,|
Merobre de la Legislature dela Republique C ou
du MalTachuffat. _
Le Commerce eft la portion la plus importante des da "
(Richeffes Nationales
—LeTrident de Neptune, eft le fcept re du Monde. P® n
LtMiiaa. 00l
Or eaafes that have been opposed to the hor
PROGRESS of COMMERCE botwaen P'i'
fRANCL and the UNITED STATEt of AMERICA, des
With the means of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America. (W
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
de la Fayette. T 1
Translated (into French from the original Eng
lift Manufcrirt of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
her »f the I.egiflawre of Maflachufetts.
Commerce i» the mod importaat portioa of the £
Wealth of Nations. .
— I he "1 rident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. Lemihe.
AT a juncture when the question of G .
a Commercial Treaty witb France may soon
become an objeft of dilcuffion, a workof this kind :
becomes extremely ufdul ta thofo aitiztns of the
United States, who may be dcGrons to enable them
fe-lves to view this fubjeft, undents various as- I
pefls; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furniflscd with the neeeffary data, to judge of the
ufefulnefsof this tranfaflion. . •
Thi» work i» principally diftinguilhed by the
riebnefsof the ohfervations, ihe ptrfpieuity of th» '
i.'cas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. t Pars, a man of wit obfurved, that *P
this work was like a rich farsiar*s barn, heaped up c
to the very roof with uCsful produce. It is addref -
fed to the unfertunate La Favette, in letters,
which fugitive fo'm, the author who could only
devotes lew weeks io this occupation, was obliged r 'j
to adopt. Although eircumltancrs are iu many °
refpefls different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly laid, that so ma
ny abfolutc and permanent data still remain, that P
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
less on that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the r«-
fclc of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfadfcions, between free
nations, every thing maybe expeitcd from the ef
forti of truth and jufiiee.
LETTER !.
General view of tha obftades,'created in France, a
to ptevent the extension ol commerce, with the u
United Stats—Observations made in a tour, taken 0
for that express purpose, uponfomc 1 rench muno- j,
fa(9ure« (a precious fragment this). Examination [
and mfutation of the prejudices existing in France,
•gainit the quality of certain productions of the
Vmted States, and against the advantages of their
importation —Demonrtration of the bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
proviiions in general, and on fait provisions, and
fifh in pa tieular—Confiderations onthe regulations 1
of the French culiom-houfes. '
LEITER 11. 1
Oblladcs to the extension of trada with Fran'e, 1
proceeding from circusnfiances and individuals in j
tl:e United States—Proofs tha: these ohftaclcs are
only temporary and will be removed (they htivt
Voeu removed) by time and the wifdem of govern
ment—Hiilory of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant (rinciples and abftraft
«onliderai ions on money and circulation—Causes
of the tlagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduifl
of the French merchants—Effed s of good com
mercial laws; and patriotie wifceson t-his fubjeS—
Observations on money, weights and measures.
LETTER 111.
Essay in the form of a tableau, to appraise the im
aoitations into the United States from France and Eng
land muted. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furnilhed from France er
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would haveaftonifheda me'e throrift) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience These
kind of toUecncx, uulutkily as oiificult to obtain as
they are much to be defiled, aiethc only fuie guides
the ftaufman call take for th. policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. Wecinr.ottoo much admire ihe apparent cx
slbief* ot colonel Swan's calculation ; and al.hough
the propkefies of L rd Sheffield have already been
coniradifted by expeiience, and by fevcrai able pens,
yet it io curious to lee the author of ihe prelent work,
dispute wiih him the only grourd on which he has
*Ol been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the requited condition, will be better able
than Gieat Britain to supply us with several articles,
which the English author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pailithty ajftel m (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
a partimty of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in 1789, that is to fsy, at a period when arts
and manufactures did sot present in France the vast
meani and probability of extension which they now
polTcfs. that even io 1789, it was presumable, that
Fiance would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given quantity of the produ&lons of France
and > nglsnd united, but also to enter into competition
with Gieat Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and *)( indultry
of her inhabitanU.
LETTER IV.
Calculaiion of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuiiablenefs to
France ; this is one reason why, notwitkflanding the
excellent wolk of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta.
Hen is by no meant fupeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation of provision* snd raw mateiials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the author eftablilhes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited ad m lit on of the produc
tions of his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time— Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effeftsof national debt, on circulation, 3cc. as more
amply detailed in hit National Arithmetic printed at
Boston in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrcngthen in France, the pubi c and private credit
•f the United States —the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the miseries anfiug from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the mofl striking idam ns, by very cu ious cal
culation^ —Obfervaiions on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenfet in Miflachu
fetts. In this pjace the patriotism of the author ap.
pears, with all ihe elevation wh'ch ajuft national
pride inlpiiei. Theancicnt governments of Europe,
fays he, will lesrn from us the art of economy in
recompenfingihefriviceswhich the country receives*
Aw •ft«i it fee*, that men are chojen for places,
odd net placesJor men. This letier conclude wiJru
feneral view'of the public properly, depofued in the
aads of the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination ol the defefts of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United Stales;
many of tliefe observations have pioduced the effeds
(or which they twtre intended, others dill remain,
pointing out the reforms 10 be made io futuie, at a
good chart Bulks the fiioala and locks, The aubor
conel«de<J»ii 'wort by firing hit attentfoa oakit
country, and the fcrcit men who have tendered it il
lustrious; and we take a plea Cure io quoting what he f
Cays of the present chief of our government. To K t
praise a man When heetercifea a distinguished em
ployment. is common, and may be taken for flattery |
but whilst he ia in private lite, it ia the h«mage of Q]
fmcetity. c
Note, page 316 of the work,
• Lea habitant des hiats-uma, fuivant dam leur c
choix le bieß public, 8c excites par un principe de 1
reconnoiffince, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice- 1
prefidrut du nouveau congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formecs par le gouv
fr«ement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres- a
fufpett a ceux qui etoient en pouv«ir. Le peuple, {
convaiacu de son merite, le choiiit pour ua de fes (
rtpfefentai s dans le premier coagres. De ce nombr* <
etoit aufli M Samuel Adam*, pairiote aufli intrepide,
qu'in'aiigable La revolution Americaine doit beau-
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, Sc a fes talens
diQinges. Crux que M. J®hn a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eftfait a Paris en 1783, a (r
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que grand tor '
politique dans son ouvrage fur Ia defente de la
conftuution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can- P rn ,
noilLnces qui forment 'es vrais jurifconfultes 8c les
hommeade lc»; connoiffances neceffaires, pour rem- as
plir honorablemrnt les fonflions de president du fifcnat eno,
des Etats-unis. «»
W. Haydon ib '
_ . aeo
Delineator of Drawing—-from tiv
(Where he has ftuJicJ several years un.kr out of
tha mot eminent matters in that science) f jp
INFORMS his friend-, that he has te-cominene- mi
ed his private tuition.— Terms, as ufxal, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three ti»es«
week. Likswife, all kinds of Ornamental Paint n
wig, fruit, flow.rs, &c. taught on the above terms. mfl
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be paiticu- Vli
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office of this i
Gszette, will be immediately attended to. I 0 f
January 9. S*" |
To 6e Sold, £
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament of |
William Heysham, deceased, and posses- j fci
fioii givf-n immediately, a valuable property in Areh I dc
street, between Third and Fourth streets, confiQ- 1 pi
ingof the house, No. 107, with the lot on which |
it is ereiled, a (table, and other improvements.— B
The houfu is »o feet front, and contains ten good fti
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the Jci
house and 109 feet deep, with a wellof water and u<
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps I
in goop repair. The stable Hands on the rear of j ~"
the lot and will aceommodats four hprfes and a ear- J
rlage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege j
of a 26 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,ext«id- 1
ir.g to CWry Struct. Its central position and the j
advantages it poffeffcs with refpeA te free vcntila- I
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any j
perfoß wilhing to possess an eligible property i* Phi- I
ktdelphia, , I
For further particulars enquire at No 8?, Vise j
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or >AAing E*ec«tor..
Fraitcis Bowes Sayre, j
January 11 S I
~The Subscriber intends to make
' application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share J
in the Bank of the United States,'ftanding in the name
I of A. B. N0.4004, dated July it, *797' f amc
having'been loft. JOHN GRAHAM. J l
3 P ec - l ' j
) NOTICE,
n ALL persons who have any demands against
j £\. the estate of VVillam FtEEMTTOOD, of
II Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- I
ceased, are requefied to exhibit their amounts, j
properly attcllcd j and thoie who are indebted I
c, to the fame, are desired te make immediate j
n pavment, to
'* No. 15, So, Third-llreet. ) J
January 4. v dtf I
a Copper for Sheathing, 1
e * For Sale, by
> e SIMON WALKER,
Pinc-Jlrtet, near Fifth. j
n- January 19 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate prise—inquire a I
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan. 17. j
™ A House in Burlington for Sale. I
lor •"T'HE fubferiber has a large, convenient two- I
c f e A story brick House, with Stables, Carriage- I
as house, and a well improved Garden, in the City |
ics of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wishes to I
ie- sell. For termaapply at No. 5, South Fourth I
ci " street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
eea Lots in Washington City,
:, j** Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
i,a» harbour.
,^ C) December 19. 7<>t
'ie, c . To be fold,
rev- A N F.LE6ANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
fhe { n g 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
tion : Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh tradt lane, in the
arl * townftiip oT Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
1 at the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this plate, for taste and
,• elegance, stand unrivalled.
tion * , . .
tion December 1. dtf
lftry PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to issue prop«fals
3 w for printing by fubfcripMo», the JOURNALS OF
: lhe CONGRESS, fron their firft meeting in 1775, to
j th« present time.
This work fliaH be printtd with a new type,
made for the purpafe ; and an good paper. It
""at ' w '" be delivered at oie dollar per volume (ofla
vo) in 6 vols.—call) t» 1 1 paid on delivery
due- l£ '* needlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of
thi» undertaking—th» scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United S ates, is fuScicnt to jufh
that fy th« printer in his hop* of Meeting with that
1 the success, which he is certain the enterprise deserves.
nore JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. d 6t
edit For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <wb»le and Hots turn*
' n Bout tit aux Brandy
_ Tentrifft WTinc
>my Moleijfel
:hu- Getrgia and Carolina Indigt
ap- Ravens and one bogfiead of faint
anal brvjhes.
N. (s* J' Tracer.
, t ) ; A'#. 95, Sonth Front Street,
tees, 1 A T w. y dim
£ jHft Published,
And to be had of Messrs. Dohfon, Campbell.Ric*,
Cary, and tho other pricipal Booksellers in tSc
, fr . city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
s a By BENJAMIN 9M1T31 BARTON, u. D.
bor June lit *<t
PROPOSALS, J d
FOR PRINTING mr SiJBSCRIPTIOI\
A NEW AHO IKTII F.JTt WORK, INTtilLl),
A TREATISE c
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON, J
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mis-
by which public aud private propsr-
ty, are, at prcfent, injured and endangered :
And suggesting remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlcfcx, Surry, Kent, j
aud Rffex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
iler ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon- f TQ
don. Wa
To tbofd ivbo have read this curious and valuable work,
it zvill need no recommendation—they know its solid merit
—but as it has hitherto get into very feiu bands in this • —■
country, it will not be amiss to obferve —so great ivas the 111
approbation and demand in London, that it pajfed through j
tbrte lari'e c.Jtfhns in the course of twelve months. As a \
detail of the ingenious varieties of frauds that endanger j
property in Londo*, and mojl other overgrown and opulent j
citicj, it cannot fail to afford the reader great entertainment
as well as infirutlion ; but at the author traces all these
enormities to a few, and in tbemfclves, inconftderable caus
es, many of which a&ually exifi in all the large capitals of
the United States, the bufmef* is brought home to our own
doors ; and the work has an increaftng claim to our etteh~
tiveperufal.'
T0 afjtfl the legijlator and the magiflrate in the humane
cfjice of preventing crimes, and their eonfequeiit punijh
monts, ivas the patriotic deftgn of the author. a Private
offences, he fay, are the four ce of public Crimes, and the ___
befi methpd of guarding society agatnfl the latter is, to make
proper prrvi lons, for checking the former ' — l4 I"hose men
are fafily feducedfrom their loyaHy who are apojfates from Jl
virtue**
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Engiiih paper —It will be delivered t®
Ifubfcribcrs, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half r j although the lait London
edition, om inferior paper and meanly bound, i-s m
now fold at *wo dollars and a half. To non»fub-
fcribers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it wilfbe committed to the profs without
j delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for **
I publication early in April.
I gf Subscriptions will be thankfully reccivedat
I Benjamim B.avie3*s's book-ftoie, No 68, High- 1
I street, and by moll of ths other booksellers ia the
j city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, aud A. Drurr.mond, in New-York.
] January 31. aawtA
| ROSS & SIMSON, J
RATH FOR SALE, n
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and e
a quantify of Bengal GQTTON J
Bengal SUGAR, in bags andbe*«
I Jamaica,
St. Vincents,- > RUM.
. I and Bengal , j
j 300 caflts RICE, Mid b
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR. v
1 Ofl, 27. f j
To be Exchanged for |
British, German, or India Gmdt, {
IN TH 5 PACKAGS ;
A trafi of valuable Land
: In Lyeoming, joining that of the Holland an.
and containing 10,300 Acres.
0 I Inquire of the Printer. 1
Tißi !<■ j
COLUiVIhiA iiULbiL
BoardingSchool for young Ladies.
f TV TRS. GROOMBRIDG'E with mucfi pleas
.. I IVJL ureand returns her sincere ac
i( I knowledgrmrnt for the liberal encouragement
[j I lhe has received during four years residence in
e j Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
j public, so far from intending to decline her
I fchoot. she has ma te a superior arrangement for
r I the more convenient accommodation »f her
I scholars.—Every branch of ufcful and polite
I education is particularly attended by Mrs.
1 Groombridge and mailers excelling in flieir
I refpeftive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. J imftf
The situation is perfe»9ly healthy and made
I more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
I of ground adjoining the house.
\ FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
I No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
I O EPORT of the Committee of the House of
I l\ Representative* of the United States, appoint
o- I ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
r e -1 against WILLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
[ty I United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
to I demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
th I House of Representatives, authorizing the laid
I Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
J inftru«sling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
I " means, to difcovcr the whole nature and extent
I " of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
pal I " impeached, and who are the parties and
j " afTociates therein."
I Printed by order of the House ofßeprefentatives
\ I December 20. §
French Circulating Library.
l ' n " JOSEPH E.G.M.De La GR.ANGE,
wo j No. 110 Walnut-street,
P I TNFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
I 1 means of becoming perfcifl in the French Lan
®!" I guage,that he has just opened his Library, con
! I filling of upwards of 1500 volumes, the baft cal
-0 I culated to afford either ufeful inllruilion, or plea
, I sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
3 los the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
, Jin town.
_ I n. b. All translations from and into tfce French,
I Englilh and Spar.ith Languages, eieeutec with ac
| curao and difoa»ch. coim nvu. Irf.
the I T~
faU Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second-fired,
' ° J TTAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
, pc Jrl which they are now opening for sale, on
It' I terms. Oft 17 4'v
aa "| This Day is Publilhed,
1 ol I BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric t and the
M | s I other Booksellers,
I Price One Dollar and iwenty-five cents,
hat \ Eltgariiy printed on IVuve paper, and Hot
»es. I » pr'ffed,
I Bv John Thnmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
~ The Constitutions
Of th« several Sutes with each other, and with
J that of the United States: exhibiting ir Tables,
j the prominent features of caeh Conftitutina, and
I clafling together their most important provisions,
under the"several heads of administration 1 with
,;«/ Notes and otfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to th« People ps the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
ic«, per, at j-4thsof a
Employment for the Poor.
le ' FLAX ton SPINNING,
To be given out every facond, fourth, and sixth
• day morning, between the hours of 10 and ia— j
back of DO. fsuth Fifdi llraet, ahove Sprncs- I
street. eodaw j
James C. tff Samuel W. tiftier. T!
at their store,
No.oi 3, corner of Arch and Front street. 136
BATE rCR SALBf _ 9
Cotton and worded Holicry in trunks, aflored 8 3
A few bales red, white, and.ye How Flannel
Ditto futty roraall HandkerchieU
Ditto Puilicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto 50c
Ditto Gurrah*
Bengal black Taffeties c
4000 pkc«s Nankeens, and (
Few thetis best Hyson Tea c
jfifo— 1500 boxes Weft London Window Glass,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14— aB<i *5 hbclß - Glass
Ware assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city. *
Not- 18 3*»wtf
Imported (via New York) on the ™
(hip Herb, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N». 61, Chefnut ilreet, •
between Second ai:d Third Streets, the follow
iog articles . t j c
Maharagonees Charconrca Dorens
Chintt and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins •
Gillis RomaK B indannoes 41
Nillas & Penfiafoe6 Challa Romals
Blue cloth " Hair ribbon
MuUMuiWiankerchicfs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
LefTer Cardimmn Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox, a „
noveniber tuths4W t*
Valuable Books, at
Just received by the Faijj American from ;
London, and now opening and felling by |
}. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. | ; s
CATALOGUES j b;
Of the newly imported books maybe had gra- ft:
til. Theie added to O's usual flock, form an ai
extensive and elegant colle&ion of aqcierrt and w
modern literature, and Gomprife books in sun
dry languages and on various fubje<£U. a!
b<
7his Bay it Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely P
bound and lettered, and embellished with an
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three euts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
OR,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colle&ion of intereSing and
mifcellaneeus incidents, calculated to exhibit to r
young minds the happy eft'eds of youthful in
nocence and filial affeiftion—ln prose and verse. fl
[ Defigncd te improve and araufe the riling gens
ration. fl
In the Press, and will be speedily pablifhed, t>
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Fcmali Education. t
Subfcr,iptions for this incomparable work will f
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be t
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de- f
livercd to tubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
•mbellilhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one (
dollar. t
January 3. jt. «
Pur sale, j r
William Priestman,
119, South Frent-ftreet, next door to the Guf 1
tom-house,
* A large ojfortment of
Gold and iilver Watches
1 A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
n Ditto, by Parker
e Pair duelling Pifto'n, by Knubley, Charing
;r Croft
3r Refleflisg TeUfcope, by Ribright
cr tfox of patent Medicines
te 60 lb. Scotch Thread
*.' Small colledlien of valuable Books, and
ir Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
ot Invoices or parcels of Watahes bought.
_ January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary,
of W, YOUNG,
nt- No. Secondrflreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
jnt TTAS now ready for fate, a very large affort
he 11 ment of Englijb, French, Latin and Greek
lif- SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary boeks
of on Science, as are generally r;ead in the academies
aid and colleges throughout the United States.
ind LATELY PUBLISHED,
ful Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
int l)itpo, large 12 mo pricG 1 dol 75 ets.
ind Ditto, common, .price I dol.jocts.
All of drawing, packing, printing* and
ves writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pafre boards,
\ (heath in g and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office,
£7" Catalogues of a miftcUaaeous collodion of
nly BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
an- by inquiring ns above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
on- > 1 »" 1 « ■
:ai. Yellow Fever and Pestilential
r
?ae Dileafes.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oAavo.
. By William Young, Boolfelltr,
lc ' No. J2, Second ilreet, the corner of Chefnut tlreet,
(Priced in boards 87 I 1 Cents)
L Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
\ A VIEW
ds, Of the Science of Life j
® n On the principles eftabliflied in the elements
* of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correft some important er
c rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleited from the records of their pra&ice, at
[ tf the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br WiLLtAM Taiex Chas. Maclsan.
To which ij subjoined, a Treatise on the aiflion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion f'or the cure of diseases of indirect debility.
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epidrmicand,
Pcftilentialdif«afe»; in whichisatteraptedtoprove
des by a numerous induction of that they ne
an(i' ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
ons, ced by certain slates, or certain viciflitudes of
tith the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, »f
Calcutta.
Nov. il. §lit
Wanted, to Hire,
t " c j» Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
t\. the centre of the city—for whieh a generous
L ' s ' rent will be given ;to be takep tor a year, or on
P 1 " more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Q<3. 17. eotf
Tin Plates,
X ,J, FOR SALE BY
SIMON WA.LKER,
cc- | PiMc, near Fifth street.
r j Dtcembu' at. iw
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica, landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhds. and 300 barrels choice Coffee
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
For fait By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFERS FCK SALE,.
500,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
600 Bags do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes i
A quantity of Hifpmiola Cocoa
Kea Port Wine in pipes and hogfhefds
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 dtweotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a considerable time on the
mifGon in the country parts of the fiat# of Penn
sylvania, gives this notice to any extertfive pro
prietor efland within the said state, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufquehar.ru, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to mate a fat
tlemenr with from fifty te one hundred and frf*
tv families, if due encouragement be cffsred.— ■
For further information, apply to the Rey. Leo
nard Neale, Willing's Alley.
Feb. 8. *3*
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offersfpr sale the property now
occupied by him in the town of West-Chester
I and county of Cheller. It confiftsof a well finiihed
; two flory stone heufe, 43 feet front, by abont 40
; deep, lour rooms on a floor, with cieled garrets,
j and a cellar under the whole—A very good stone
! Stable and Coach house—And a let of Ground* |
, tkree perches wide, by twentjy perches dejkh.
The house Hands on the Main street; its situation
is high and very handsome ; the lot extend® to a
back street, on which the liable and coach hoirfe
stand. The lot is in a high state of cultivation,
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, been known te fail.
1 The situation of the town is high, and remark-
healthy—the country crouud it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will naade to suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
| upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm*th, at no.
149, South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
City Commiflioner's Office,
"January nth, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZeNS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commiffinners, for cleanling the
ftrects, &c.
Diftriit No. 1. —From the north Ode of Viae
ftreet,to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperinttndance of Nicholas Hicks.
a. From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
■ fuperintendance of Joleph Claypooie.
1 4. From the north fide of Spruce ftrerf, to the
; south fide of Cedar street, to be under l the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. rawfim
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quant!:
ty ot Claret Bottles of a right size—For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January 12 3taw6w.
Recently Publijhed,
And just imported from England, by William
Griifiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
r may be had of Morc*n J.Rhees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two dofely
printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
g llluftrations of Prophecy :
la which are elucidated many predi&ions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gellfts, and book of Revelation; which are tho't
to foretell among oth»r great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the intercfts of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclefi
-1 aftical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
i_ iweiio ration of the
world : together with
A large collection of Extrafls,
fnterfperfed through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vitrfnga, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwi«, Fleming,
Dr. Hemy More, Beqgeiioe,
ft, Dr. John Owen, Daus uz,
" t_ Dr.CrelTener, " Whitby^
Peter Jurieu, I.owfnftB 1
k s Brenlus, Bilhop Newton, and
[C * Biflvop Chandler, Bishop Hun 4 .
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various oiher inquiries treated of ia
tins work, and numerous ;llttflratioj-i (■: prophecy ;
it contains a confide:- ble number of ia&sorob
formations on tlic fyinbolic langu <if prophecy,
the anthesrjcUy, sfes, and «hfctirity ol the apo
ks' calypfe, and the genuiru;t)efs of the Hebrew pro?
phct»; on the rapid c.orruption of chrifiianity in
or the fourth century-; on the difperiion and reftora
tien ot the Jews, the hillory of the falfc Mefliaha
0 f who have appeared among them, ana the rcafons
a( j in support of the conj dure that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes; on the right of
rati (lance to op pre Son; on the irruptions of th«
, northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
3.1 fall of the Roman empire; on the cuflomi of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs; oa
the.conquests of thole nations, and those of the
v°. Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamaiukes, and
tfes pad history and prefect state of Egypt; on
fit, the charaflcr and CQjidufl of Csnftantine, Jultini
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
•m books in the dark ages, and the caufcs of the de
cline of literature ; on th« rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall; on the io
confiftencies in the political charaflers of bifhopa
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr..
Nts Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the bsr.ficiaf
efiedts which ehriftianity has produced in favor of
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pr«~
er _ mote the efiaHifhmi nt of equal governments.
of the large proportion of original
matter contained ir; thefc volumes, those who are
-1 Interested in thefubjefl will, it isp'efumed, wiflv
toperufe or confultthem, because the entraAs in—
[*• troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, a»4
ion marked with inverted comnaas, are t.keß from a,
ca- greater number of writers on the prophecies (at
ty. 1-all if the roman catholic commentators be e*-.
id, eluded) than are easily accefiible to any .ne indivi*
>ve dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
ne- in any one library in the world They are tux
iu- niflied with indexes, and a co, ious tabic of con
of tent*.. Jan 12—aawaw
of ■
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufaflnrerf,
GINGER and t fpper, gmund ; fheiled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton ai:d Burton Ale ;
on London Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
suitable for exportation or home consumption.
[ Thehighefl pi ice given for Muft»rd-Seed.
Mfo forfait, A quantity of Bocking and
common Bases, a variety of rolort; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for fa'ehv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. jB, south Fiont-ftreet.
lov. if. m.&th.t.ij.