o>dsZttZ°f tlje mmm States, - D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
■ * '* m-t
By John Fenno, N°* ii <) Chefnut Street.
Number 1737.J
For Savannah,
(To fail on Saturday the *]th of April)
j~-the ship
A; SWIFT PACKET,
'I^ ATRIcK Gribbin, Matter.
& A regular eflablifiied Packet with
T.' clegan accommodations. For
freight or paff&ge apply to the IVfafter on board at
Rofs's wharf, or to
N. €* J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have for sale a quantity of prime new Rice
by {aid veflel.
march 31 d7t
FOR SALE.
Savannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adlive, Will
iam Williams, matter. «
faid Brigforfale,
&V. Jyfijp And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingftvorth bf Co.
march 30. §
This Day will be Landed,
At Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Malaga—
Fresh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in cheWs and ha.f elicits
Raisins of the Sun in kegs
Figs in do.
Soft ftiell'd Almonds in facka
Granes and Olives in jar 9
Bloom and MufcarelHaifins in boxes I
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter AlmOsds in boxes ,
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s.
i'Theaboveßrig for sale
immediately applied for ; flie
a remarkable fine faft failing
inirfci veffc 1, having made her paffagc
to and frora Malaga in little morft than 60 days,
march lot
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at RulTel's Wars
Burthe^^^ou^—three years old, built of the bed
materials and is well found—would answer well
for a coaster, as she has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Carney & Smith.
march 13 §_
Fnr Hamburgh,
\ THE SHIP ,
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
grc«»t cargo en"
gagifd.—For freight ariply to
Jejfe isf Robert Wain.
February 26
iff Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVt FOR SALE,
j 8 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wineinpipes indhhds.
Teneriffe do. in p'pes
Port do. in hhd».
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f chests
Sail Canvass, No. t, to 8
Dimities, (Tmghams, and rili*fiinets, in packa
ges fuitabld for the Weft-India market
Nails afl'ortecl
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. snd crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expedled round
as soon as the navigatioa is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coais
Spjnift Brown T
Venetian Red I
Purple Hrnwn ! p^JNTS
Patent White I
White L?ad I
Red Lead J
Colcfithar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper"
Seaming Twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
ii now changed to _ T _, T ,
NICKLIN £9* GRIFFITH.
~Por Sale or Charter,
GOODHOPE
Will carry about tioo barrels, and
is read Y totake in a cargo. For terms
,p p'y to „
Pragers ts Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who havq for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. <itf
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. sl, Second flrett, the corner of Chefnnt street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprefentativesotthe United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againit V" ILI.I BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfuof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recef6 of Congress, and
inilruiling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to discover whole nature and rxt.*nt
" 'of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" ft ind* impeaches, and who are the parties and
" affqciatejtherein."
Printed by order of the lloitft of Reprefentati-u.s
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 4, 1798.
On Tuesday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock jn the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be ejpofed to public sale, fevenresß
tia<sls or parcels of land situated in Point
townlhip in the county of Northumberland, and
(jonUinjnp in the whole si* fevfrj hun
dred and fixtf-four acres andttree quarters,
with the usual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, 1-5 of the purchase menev on
the execution of the deed, 1-3 in three months,
and 1-3 in fix months, in good notes sr other
approved fecarity.
CONNELLY & Co. Aua.
March 9. iawtn dtlca
Valuable Stands for Business.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-dreet, be
tween Second and Third streets : —one containing
eighteen feet, and the other seventeen ftet, more or
less, on the said street, and both extending, the
fame breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-fiery
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8i)
Which may readily be made ir.to one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
three-ftcry
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This pro-erty is clear of ground-r«nt, and an
indisputable title will be given to thepurchafer.
The three Houses will be fold fcparately or toge
ther.
Farther particulars may k« l-.n&wn on applica
tion to 0 ' •
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jun.
No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, or at the Library,
march 23.
A Negro B6y for iale.
HE is about 13 years old, and has about 15
years to serve, haying been bound until he
ia 28 years old, inprefencs of the Mayor of this
City and Mr. Thomas Harrifon. He is both ac
tive and mischievous, but is capable of becoming
a very ufeful boy with a niafter that would imme
diately superintend his c viiuSl. For further par
ticulars apply to the Printel hereof.
march 18. §
Valuable Property for Sale.
-
FOli SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the rtfidence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
ef which are in woods. Ths Buildings are all ex
cellent, and eOnfift of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a flmoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
. Huxoundad-by asuez* it r but little
and has a good Shad and Herring filhriy. ft is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a (hort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepicmifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is irioftly a rich loom.—
The whole will ba fold together, or divided into
froaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, confifllng of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofedof For further
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the ■
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. law6w
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made their escape, be. wecn
1 and 2 o'clock, this mornin;, two Men, who
were convicted of dealing—one of them calls him
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
Leggis a grey-headed Man. about toyearsold, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head; Hambleton is about 26 years oid, 5
feet, 9 or IO inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the ab"ve described
thieves, a fmallman, who calls himfelf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 tect 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, fatiles .when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade. Whoever wilLfecure
the thieves in any Gaol in New-J«rfey or Pennsyl
vania, shall b« entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one. Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march 15. 24 —mtscf.;w
Law book Store,
Np. 319, High-flreet.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors ftiewn htm in his
efforts toeflablifh a Store for the sale of Law
Books only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his coUe&iou now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the poffeflion of any one person for sale in Ameri
ca, he expe&s daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly from the latter place,
having chiefly confined his importations to thole edi
tions, as being in his opinion equally Corre«ft with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Book#, it will appear obvious to profeffional gen
tlemen the great advantage* they have in
from him, both as to fele&ioft arid price, of which
the encouragement Me has received for several ycirs
past, i? the bell testimony he can offer.
rrarch 20. 3*W3w
AT LUMT.
This Day ij Publifhtd, by William
Cobl.e+T,
OPPOSITE CHRJST CHURCfI,
Ihe Democratic Judge,
on Trie
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS,
As exhibited, explained and exposed, in the
prosecution of
WILLIAM COBBETT,
FOR A fStTSSDID 1.1811. ACA'tVIT »
The King of Spain and his Embajfudor, before
THOMAS M'ItF.AN,
Chief Juflice of the State 'jf Hem r ylvania.
By Piter Porcupine.
FORGERIES.
WHEREA" several forgeries have been ci»tnmi'-
'.ed in this city and New-York and other plac
es by 3 or 4 men, <» are now confined in New-York
goal for life, one of ihein by name Dr. G,anr,
Smith White ; another by name Dr. Gilbert, alias
Lewis; forged a bill of exchange on NichoUsCook
of New-York with a letter of advice from Me{Tr«.
Brown, Beofon 3c Ives of Providence, they also forg
ed 3 checks in the name of Nicholas v ook,alfo 2 checks
in the name of John Rathbdne—Wiliiam Grant is a
bout 2\ years old, light complexion, long favored, his
countenance by no means expreflive, but rather filly
or unmeaning; breathes uncommonly hard, and fre
queutly heaves a ftgh, rathet thin built, flendei conlli
tution.has a hacking cough,confumptive look, wore a
green cloth coat in July '96, has a defc£Hn;one or both
front teeth, lived some time clerk with Nicholas Cook
in NewrYork—Gilbert, alias Lewi# is rather fat or
lusty, has a fear over one of his eyes. Grant & Gilbert
in June 1796 forged letters of recommendation and
credit to this city,from J. Rath bone, Nicholas Cook,
Hoyt & Tom, Pell & Mellick, John Rathbone's was
| well executed, Grant boarded at Mr. Grimes* Tavam
the f George, corner of Mulberry and Second-street ;
Gilbert in 7th street, and kept a one horse chaise.
Grant fleptina room with Mr. Robeit Bicknell, and
broke open his bureau, while Mr. B. was at Baltimore,
and ftolc a bill of exchange for 120 dollars, from the
signature he forged 2 drafts on the'Pennfylvania bank,
dated 6 July *96, one for four hundred and forty-two
dollars, and gave it to Mi. Wilcox's black boy tp re
ceive, the Bank being shut the boy was taken intocuf
tody bv Mefher a constable, the draft lays at the May
or's office ; the other dftft for 285 dollars was paid
by the Bank soon in the morning of the 7th July— on
the 9th, Saturday afternoon, he received through the
hands of JVleflri, DebaufFre and Goodwin a of
Wilnam Prieflnnan's, dated 8(h Joly* on the United
States Bank for 100 dollars. Being too late .to receive
it that night, he forged another from the figna ure on
the United States Bank for 446 dollars dated 10th
July, Sunday, which was paid en Monday morning,
early. 13th or 14th July he appeared in a new dreis
new boots, &c. and removed to a more retired lodg
ing, at Mrs. Smith's between Arch and ftace-ftreets,
3 daysafier, he set oik for Virginia Springs, bftt upon
the road he flcpt in a room with a"gen leman and
robbed his saddle bags of some watches for which he
was enteno'd at Baltimore to the wheel barrow, but
latelyrelcafed, having very good friends in Connecti
cut* —Any person who can prove his writing upon
convittion of the offender, fhailreceive ie'o dollars re
ward, as the United States Bank have refufed to pay
the money, apply to William Prieltman, No. 1,5 south
5 th-ftreet Philadelphia. t /
In a few days the 3 checks evidently wrote by the
fame Grant, 2 gentlemen having sworn to his writing,
will be left at the Mayor's office for infpe&ion.
April 2. 6r.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THATpropolals will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the i>th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firil day of
Q&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, a y s inclusive, at the places and within
the diftridt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;tt Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Lorafliie's Store ; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Mafiac ; at any
place or places on rne eart nae of tmr River wrmn
lippi above the month of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Miflifiippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the fouthem boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat# ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of TennelTec ; at ap.y place or
places on the east fide of the River Mifiifiippi, be
low the foutliern boundary of the State of fennef
fee, to thcfoutherli boundary of the United States.
*lf supplies (hall be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
shall be furniflied at prices proportion'/d to thole to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the copria^or.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th° fol
lowing articles, viz.
One poynd of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy pr whif-S
ky, one q*uart of Salt, two quarts / , e . r ,
of vinegar, two pounds of soap,( ;,n . C r3
• r 11 \ rations
ona pound ot candles j
The rations are to be furniflied in such quantities,
as that there fball at all times during the said term,
be fulfici«nt for the eonfumption of the troops at
\lichilim2ckinac, Detroit, .Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the teim of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other polls, for the term of at lead three
months in advance, in good and wholesome pro i
fions, if the fame lhall be required, kista be un
derftoed, that the contradl»r»s to be at the er.-
ptnee and rifle of iflaing the fuppliesto the troops
at each pod, and that all lolTes fullained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, lhall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcltroyed, on
the depositions of two crn.orc persons of credit.;-
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circure (lances «f the
loss and the amount of the articles far which com
pensation (ball be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhed under the proposed contraift, tffcall be
ifiued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contiaft now in force have
been consumed. /
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary nf the Treasury.
march 17. 2awti<ly
/O K oALE, ~
ALL that elegant three (lory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south wefl. corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
containing in front on fourth street 3j feet, and
in length on Prune street 98 leet, to a four feet al-
Jey intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame
Also, a two (lory brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the weft fida *f Fourth fireet and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth en Fourth
llreet 25 fret 6 inches, and in depth f«et oh the
said four ftet alley, with the common privileges of
the fatne.
And also, a'.l that Lot of Ground situ ite on the
v/eft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the Uft
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 2$ feet 6 inches', and in depth on the north
fide ioafeet, thence running fouthwarrf 11 feet 6
inches, thence farther westward 12 feet, thence
dill further fruthward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common use of the said four feet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purchaf/r.
For terms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of.
sice. No. 144 South Foarth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march jawtf
To be Let,
(And poffeltion given on the id of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 feet front, aed 40 feet deep, with hack buildings
and ftablcs, at prefect m the tenure of Major J ck
son. Enquiry at 187 South Third street.
April z. §__
TO BE SOLD,
TWO handsome new three flory brick Dwell
ing H ou fe«> ten rooms ui tack; a Livery
Stable, large enough to contain thirty horses and a
large Coach House; all completely finiihed, 1 here
is a convenient yard with a pump in it, loir the ac
commodation of the buildings. Any perlon
inclining to purchase, by applying at the buildings,
No 46 aud 48 North Sixth I'.rect, may view them,
and b j informed of the terms, which will be made
easy if required.
N. B. I'he houses will be fold fcparately or to
gether, a 9 it may heft suit the purchaf/r ; one of
the houses is well calculated for a tavern or private
tamily. *eost s P r '' 2 *
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligneJ his pro
perty for the beFefit of hi. Creditors, t» Jatr.es
C. Ft (her, Samuel W. Fiiber, and 1 lyjn-.as "W'ilfon.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnilh their accounts with«ut delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, ailing AlTignees.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fi(her.
No. 13, ArchStreu.
4'awtf
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, situate 011 ths euft fide
of the main street, running through the to*vn
of Dover, in Kent county, in ths State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for'y yards below Captain
Furbee's Tavern, containing in front on said street
thirty four feet, and extending in depth caftward
twelve perches, together with buildings there
on created, which consist of a good brick house,
two ftorie6 high, well finilhed, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
paflage eight or ten feet wide on the firft flaor ;
three rooms with a paflage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is uTed
asakitcheß; a hack brick building with two rooms
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of this building communi
cate above ltairs with the paflage of'the house :
A brick smoke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpecSl as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, Nc. 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 17. tus4w
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
g-inft hia liberation, pursuant to an a£l of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a<2 for
th ■ relief of insolvent debtors," palled the 26th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of March
next for the p#rpofe aforefaid ; tn meet at the
CoiAHouff in the Middle Preeincft, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditor:? are requested to rake notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —xawjw
N O T I C F
WHEREAS a Certificate to llannaii Shel
ly, 6f Cottage, in the of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spiniler, or her assigns,
for two thousand five hundred and Gxty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the United States, was loft in the (hip
Capt. Hyef, Bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year 1796. The fukferiher, the said Hau
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb.!?. lawbw.
To be Let,
A three story brick House,
With Stables, and a Garden containing nearly one
acre of choice ground, feveril Summer House*,
Fruit Trees, &c. on Race, and second street from
Schuylkill ; the whole in good condition, and the
situation high, airy and excellent lor a place of
public en'ertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and ll* deep,
is also to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at No. 39,
Pine street.
Wivf. CURRIE.
march ■jr. wstf
Bafkenridge—lor lale
TT eonfifls of yao acres, almod all of wh'ch i«
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
JJgrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
Eail by the river Pafiiek.
Th~r? are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aercs—The dwelling house
ii a vary convenient one.and,a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiftsof 150® finabearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pnrts'ol said
trait near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and mod delicious kind 6.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forfft Treos, that add to ths beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 16 do.
from Morris-Town, and (1 from Sprijigfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To lave trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in eafh, on delivery of the deed*. Plcafc to in
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 79, Chefnut. treet.
February a. eodtf
RedCiover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA IVINR,
OH, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Tenerift'e Wine,
And, Window Gtafi—all of which will be fold
on vsi y reasonable tcrtfts, by
John Craig,
No- 12, Dock Street,
march I * w&itf
- [ Volume XIII.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of'the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-street
was on the night of the 19th inflant (March) bro
| ken open, and the following article! stolen, at d
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2 374 20 a j ue ftroud fmgle
2 37 20 \ cord. *
2379 20
2380 20 { 1 N
2381 201
2382 20 Two cord.
2383 20f
2384 20
2385 20£ J
The above'reward is oflered, for the
of the pe r pctrators of this robbery, so that they
he apprehended, and made amenable to juflice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods itolen, 00 delivery oi tke
fame to
JOHN HARRIS, .
Keeper Military Stores,
april J. iw
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fecord h id Light
Waggon, hung 011 Jack with g'wff.s and
blind? in the door?, with or without harnef*.—
Enquire of Peter Umerickhoufc, Arch, belo.v
Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR W. HAINES.
April 1, "aawyr
SALT r E 1 R E.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale liy the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fi/her,
No. 13, Arch Street
march 31 4tawtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fef LEWIS,
No. 115 SAth Front Street.
A quantity of Taker's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
ill and id proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
"
In the Brig Ben JAmin Fr an k l i n, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR iALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil Qf a superior quality in boxes andjbalkets
Lunelle ">
Sauterne ( w r- r.
„ , > Wines in Cafcs.
Macarty, and (
Mcdoc )
Thomas Mvrgatroydj
No. ii, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes } In titled
Irish market "> tTr . . c > to
Medoa, and Sauterne J ines in Ca es ' j drawback
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
Aleout 40oobulhels 1 iverpoolSalt.
march 19 mw&ftf
_ ..A. •
Hoafe and Lots, in Bordenlaiun.
-"pO EE SOLD, a har.dfome two story House,
A with the Lot en which ii is ereflrd, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentovn. The houfo is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains or.e hwmlred feet on
the ftrfet, and extends with the fame
breadth to bSck fireet. Also, a large Lot, cpn
taining nearly four acres, fepirated trogiC the
former by back street. One third only of th«
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II he give* as the purehifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrancer,
and an indifputahle title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
Wriiiam Burnes, reiiding ih Bordentown, near
the premife3, who will Jhew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street.
December 2. 3awt#
Ne<w-Tork, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS* y GEO RGE FORM AN,
TOR PRINTING BY SUBSCKIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only ix m i-nths—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIRACY against
all the Religions and Governments ot EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. C»l
---leiled from good authorities.
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
I'refjfbr of Natural Piihftpby, and .Secretary to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agilur paries cum proximus ardet.
■J/" THIS work will be put to prefaas fc>on as
400 tubferibers are ohtained, andno money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fti-
P-rior quality, which will compriie about 400
pages neat ofiavo, hanrifomely bound and lettered
—the price will be op.e dollar and fifty cents.
Thofewho procure 12 fubicribers, andbecomq
accountable, fliall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
' t " The above wotk ccmes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of UMinborough, a gentleman in hig(i
eflimation io the literary world—the fads therein
recorded are well fubft»:itiated, and thereafonirg
and argumen's thence deduced, while they dilco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to nniufe as well w to in
ftruA. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fuiEcient to rtpral the fitfutcft heart Tha
danger to be appr-hend'cd from secret focieti.s m
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of hutpan «s
---ttircawtuWy iHuflrat'«d, and the hazard of every,
deviation ;rfim the straight path of religion an j
of virtue, inccnrcllibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by stubborn and incontro
vertible fjiSs.
Sulifcriptions talen in G. Forman, Ko 46,
Wiltiam-ftrcil, oppofilc the PoJI- Office, aud iy the 1 Jfec*
tive boolfcellers in New-Tori and rhiladtlv'oia.
February 23.
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Incluatng Lcrg Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would arfwer the purpofi; of
a country Printer oi well as new. k
Enquire ef thf Printer.r__
oa3ettc»
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, April 4.
For the GMft rt. of the United SrsEf.
TO TUB PUBLIC,
In the Merchants advertiser of the 26th
of March I have read a number of queries,
reflecting «n the managers of the Pennsyl
vania Hospital, which are improperly iilh
ered into public notice, with the following
introduction, by a person Who Ogns himfelf
Medicus Studiofus.
" MK. BRADFORD,
" You will oblige a fubferiber, hy pub
lishing the few Queries which follow-
They may peffibly lead our fellow citizens,
to a train of enquiry which feertSs to have
become highly n-*ceffary. It is not from
dislike to the injlitution, or any particular pique
againjl any of its directors, but solely with a
view of procuring the public thorough informa
tion, with refped to the etiquette of the House ;
and the reception of the unfortunate, into this
once amiable injlitution."
In connecting the words once amiable injli-'
tutinn with the above declaration, I am clear,
thai every perfon< will immediately discover,
that the author of them, is not a man of
Veracity or candor, who willies for informa
tion, !ar.d that notwithstanding all his pro
feflions to the coiuraiy, he is wickedly and
artfully aiming to injure the Hospital in the
■public eftecm. I (ball not therefo-ie expect
to make any good imprelfion upon his mind,
by answering his queries, but believing from
the charaCtel of my fellow citizens, that it
my be in favor of that ufeful institution to
do it, I will undertake the talk.with plea
sure, and if the base and unnatural attempt
of the querill to (top the current of charity
from flowing to the destitute poor, and even
to the poor of his own native city, (for I
think I know him) may be thereby prevent-'
ed, I (hall derive a consolation, from my
prelent engagement which £ cannot ex
press ; but previous to my answers. I will
thke the liberty, to explain my own ideas
of the Pennsylvania liofpital.
The Pennsylvania Hospital is a private in-
JUtvtion fur the public good, founded original
ly 011 the voluntary contributions ot indivi
duals, " for the reception and relief of lu
" natics, and other distempered and sick
" poor within this province with an excep
" tiin to infedtious diseases." By the
charter, it is. put the care and directi
on of the contributors, who choose annual
ly "twelve managers ahd a Trcafurer out of
their own number, to transaCt the general
business of the house. Those managers e
ia the physicians, and all the servants ;
the cLarter also expressly points out the ex
tent, in which the poor (hall receive the
benefit of the funds, iu these words " 110
" general meeting of the said contributors,
" nor any peifons acting under them (hall
" employ any money, or other ellate, ex
" prefsly given, or added tothe capital (lock
" in any other way, than by applying its
" annual interest or rent towards the enter
" tainment or care of the sick and diftem
" pered poor, that f■ 11 from time to time
" be brought and placed therein, for the
" cure of their diseases, from any part of
•f'.tli s province, without partiality or pre
" ference "
Now, in order that the true design and
intention of the institution may ndt be pre
vented, the legislature, the chief justice,
akej of the house of
assembly, as well as the
all of them a controlling power over the
managers—but no otherperfons that I know
of, have any such rights. To the senate k
home t Repfefrntativcs, they are bound to
fanm" all their accounts every year, and
they are liable to be visited, and to have all
their affairs inspeCted by them as often as
they think proper ; and the charter fays if
" there lhuuld not be a constant fucceflion
" of contributors to meet yearly and choose
" managers, then the said hospital, and the
" ellate and affairs thereof, (hall be in the
'' management and under the direction of
" such prrfous as (hall from time to time,
" fee appointed by a£i of general afftmbly
" of this province for that purpose." The
ccntributors by the charter have a right to
'make laws, but those laws, cannot take ef
fet* until they are approved and signed by
the chief ju (lice, state attorney, and speak
er of the affembly. By virtue of
this power, a law was made in in
these Words " if there (hall be roora in the
" hospital to spare, after as many poor pa
" tient* are accomodated, as the interest of
•• the Capital (lock can support, the mana
" gers (hall have liberty of taking in other
" patients at such reasonable rates as they
" can agree for ; and the profits arising from
" boarding and nnrfing such patients, (hall
" be appropriated to the fame uses as the
41 interest of the public stock. Provided,
" that no such person, under pretence of
" coming to board in the hospital, (hall be
" admitted, unless on the nrli application
" made on his behalf, a certificate be pro
" duced, from the overseer or overseers of
" the poor of the townlhip in which he lives
" of his having gained a residence in the
" said townlhip, and unless lufficient fecu
" rity be given to the managers, to indem
" nify the city and hospital, from all charg
" es and expenses whatever of his removing
" hither. The above, according to the
bell of my judgment, are the main princi
ples upon which the charity is founded.—
Having mentioned this, I will proceed to
anfwtr the queries, in doing which, I hope
it will appear, the benevolent intentions of
the legislature and of the contributors is
fully complied with.
I. Was not the Hospital originally founded
and_promoted by individual fubfeription
and public benefaftions, under the idea of
it: being a receptacle for the poor who
were afflicted with any disease that was not
contagious ?
I A. It was. nnd all the interest of the
(lock, is laid out in the care and cure of
( such poor people, and so are the profits that
are made by the board of pay patients ; the
interest will support about 22 and the profits
8, making 30, which is all the poor the
managers have a right to admit at one time
in the house ; since the commencement of
the institution more than nine thousand pa
tients have-been received in the holpital, af
filed with all manner of diseases of body
and mind, of whom abofe four thousand
have been poor people, a great number of
whose lives have been saved, by the care and
attention that has been paid to them—the
benefits of the institution will be progressive-
Iy extended to a greater number of poor,
m the exaft ratio, to future legacies and
contributions, which it is expeCted will fi
nally enable the managers to fill the house
with them, to the exclusion of all the rich ;
in the mean time, pas-patients are received,
because they help to maintain agreater num
ber of the po®r, than the managers, could
otherways support.
11. Have nc)t private fnbfcriptions and do
nations been liberal in the extreme—havl:
not the affemhlies at different times been
profufe in their grants, to the amount of
many thousands ?
A. They have been liberal—-but' not in
the extreme, nor profufe. This seldom or
ever is the cafe to the poor. I believe that
the legacies with private fubferiptions and
donations,amount to forty thousand pounds
—of this sum ten thousand pounds was loft
by continental money ; ten thousand pounds
lie in unprhdu&ive estate, and twenty thou
sand pounds is out at interest at 15 per cent.
The legiftat ive grants amount to about twen
ty-five thmfand pounds, the whole of which
sum is laid out in building the house, and
fix thousand pounds are wanting to finifh it
—thus it appears, that private contributi
ons for the public good, have exceeded the
public granti by fifteen thousand pounds,
and I hope I (hall not be fupppfed to think
lightly of our legislative grants, which I do
not, if f compare them with those of a
neighbouring (late, I will then just men
tion, that the afT mbly ps New-York, have
given to their Hospital at different times
thirty-fix thousand pounds, which is eleven
thousand pounds more than the assembly of
Pennsylvania have given to theirs ; and the
Pennsylvania Hospital certainly is ent'tled
to the largest grants, if the exertions of
oHr contributors may be compared with
those in New-York, which do not amount
as I can find to one thousand pounds.
111. Infpiteof the payments made them
of their money at interest at a depreciated
state ; in which they partook »nly in
common with their fellow-citizens, are
not the managers rich both in money and
productive funds ? •
A. No, but they are poor; their income
dont exceed 3,466 dollars per annum, and
that at 3 dollars per week, will not support
23 patients at one time ; but the profit of
pay patients being added to it, enables them
as I have mentioned before to take 30 poor,
1 he Institution never can be-laid to be.rich,
until the funds will maintain the house full
of poor patients ; suppose, it will accom
modate 300 at one time,and we reckon them
at 2\ dollars each, per week—it will then
require 39,000 per annum j this will call
for a capital flock of 650,000, wheread,
the present amount of it is otily 53,«3 —
with this view of the subjeCt, will afly ra
tional man fay, that we are rich ? he surely
cannot, but he may fay, with propriety,
we ought to be thankful $ our predecessors
have begun this institution, and endowed it
with 53,333 dollars for the use of the poor
-by voluntary contributions, and not by en
creafing the taxes.
IV. Have not the overseers of the po r (un
til very lately) paid enormous films, out
of the rates fpecified for maintaining
those poor, to-the managers of the hos
pital, for medicines and diet, adminis
tered to paupers transmitted thither from
the bettering house ?
A. The managers of the hospital, ac
i ce.pt of paupers • from the overseers of the
: poor from the bettering house and every o
ther part of the state of P. nnfylvauia with
out partiality, when they have funds to
maintain them. When that is not the cafe
the overfeed, pay for their patients three
dollars per week, which includes evrry
ch rge for medicine and diet, and everything
else but cloathing and funeral expenses—
, and it is uniformly the practice of the said
managers to fake in such poor without ma
king a profit by them, but in all Cases, they
: charge 25 per cent more to the overseers of
other states. Individuals in low eircum
(lances, and in those cases, where religious
societies of any denomination, or affocia
tions of men, who contribute and support
the poor in Pennsylvania at their own ex
pence, are also taken at the cost. Upon
these principles the managers have always
aCted, and I believe, that which yields a
great deal of trouble and no profit, will ne
ver be called enormous by any man in his
senses.
V. Can a poor unfortunate sailor, afflicted
with disease, be admitted, unless his mer
chant or somebody elfg be security for
changes of cloathing, funeral expcnce3
and diet, and in some instances the ex
peneesof his eure ?
A. Poor unfoitun.te failo s, can be,
and very often are admitted, without any
security, unless it be for cloathing and fu
neral charges ; "they never give security for
diet, unless they are admitted as pay pa
tients ; and when they were admitted as
such, I have never known tlicm, in any in
stance to pay the physician a farthing, if
that is what is meant by expences of cure.
Ncrdid I ever know of a merchant, ap
plying to have a sailor admitted, that was
not willing to give security for hi 3 cloath
' ing and burial charges ; and it is not uncom
mon for the managers & physicians to give
"it for a ftrsnger destitute of friends—if no
other person will, they will obtain it, by
calling on the overseers of the poor in all
proper cases, and in cases of recent Iric
turcd limbs, wounds or bruises, happening
by accidents in or about the city, a poor
person will be always received without any
security at all.
VI. Can anycitizen.who haseven foryearslived
reputably and paid his taxes, be admitted on
any other terms than in the preceding <l uer y •
A I know not of any dift'milion but this be
tween the citizcn&failor —imanageror Physician
will ometimes become security for the f.ilcr,
where he will not for the citizen,for agoodreafon:
The one can obi ge the oveifeerj of the poor to
become security for him, or to maintain hint
elfeVt'here in the city—the ether being deftiUitc
of friends, for want of fui h security, may fuffer.
VII. Is not th. hospital a profitable mad-house,
rather tlun a kind asylum for diftreis and
anguish ; and are not two thirds (at least) o!
the maniacs, incft liberally paid fir, to ever)
body interfiled In their cure anJ accomtjo
datiftfi? . ,
A. It is the mod comfortable afylOSi by far
-of any in th* United tatesformad people ; ahd
the so lowing were the rates paid for maniacs,
in January last :
One'was at 80 cents per week
Eight at x
One at 1 11
Two at 1 33
Four at i 67
1 hree at 1 '
Fo&rteen at 3
One at 3 33
One at 3 53 •
Three at 4
One at 4 50
Four at 5 and
Two at 6 per week—in those prices e
ve. y thing that can be nanied, is included to
the overseers of the poor, except burial expen
ces and cloathing, and there is no profit or
perquisites whatever to the managers, not to
any servants of the houft, at : hough sometimes
the physicians are paid for attending their own
private patients who are well able to pay them
& who of their own accord offer to do it—and
they are juftihed in this by a rule of the house
in the following words. " Those who are
taken into the hospital at a piivate expence
may employ any pkyfician or surgeon they
please." Among the above pay patients, none
that are taken from the overseers of the poor
of Pennsylvania pay higher than three dollars
a weeje whjch at this time is only the firft cost
of a patient—those who are lower than 3 dol
lars with one 01 two exceptions, are their pa
tients taken in many years since, on whom the
price is not raised.
VIII. Jf the hrufe is so poor, as not to be able
to maintain itfelf, why this last summer did
its managers f licit the translation of a ps
tient from the house of employment, firft at
half price, then gratis; that an imputation
might be performed at the hospital, which
was afterwards performed by the surgeon in
attendance at the house of employment ?
Again, where is the p'.ea of poverty, .vhen
we reflctfl, that at the beginning of this win
ter, it was solicited, that upwards of twenty
patients at the choice of the managers, &c,
(hoilld be removed from the bettering house
to the hospital, for the use of the clinical lec
turer ?
A. This quere is predicated on a misrepre
sentation of tafls —The truth is, that some time
ago perhaps two or three years since an offer
ws made to take a cafe from the house of em
ploy for amputation, not at halfprice, but gra
tis, and the managers of that house would not
fend him for fear of offending their physician,
who rhofe to perform the operatic/) himfelf—
And last fnmmer the like'offer was made to
take another person, which for the fame rea
sons was rejected ; and again, last winter, one
■ wf-thc- ftttlug liiaoagas u' ilit t'utpttal ga vc an
intimation tonne »f the managers of the better
ing house, that probably they could get fix or
eight paupsu transferred to the fiid hospital, if
the cases were proper, as the poor lift werefo far
lhort of the number they could at that time ad
mit—the hint was mentioned to their board at
the house of employ, but not attended to, and
the reason given was because he doctors Would
not consent to let the physician* of the hospital
come to their house and feleft the cases. As to
an offsr to take twenty patients and upwards, it
was never made, and if it had been, it would
have been a kind one, that for many good rea
sons ought to have been accepted; oii these
refufils I will make no comments.
IX. Is it just tltat the assembly (hould pay for a
very large house, with expensive awkward
marble front and pilasters, when the firnplici
ty of llile in an hospital, needed no such ex
pensive accommodations ; and which were
undertaken by the managers and under their
sole diredlion, and I believe without a meet
ing of the contributors Is it just, or feeling,
that the public funds should be thus applied,
when twice in less than five years, the yellow
fever has almost depopulated our city ; anil
there is no place yet erefted, where a refuge
can be found, or where deserving and wretch
ed poverty tan hide its head ; fufficiently
roomy ana convenient in cafe of future horri
ble catastrophes ?
And yet for this purpose, a tax under the
name of hospital tax is collefted daily !
A. It isjult that th assembly Ihouldpay for
-his large house *ith alt its accommodations
and ornament- because the plan was laid before
the contributors and approved by them, and if
tei wart's it was submitted by th, managers to
the legislature, who also approved thereof and
dirked.th mto build it. After thus approv
ing and adopting the p an, there can be no doubt
they ought to Unify it. As to a tax for luoport
ing the Pennsylvania ho'pital, there never was
"ne laid for the purpose ; the tax called the
h 'fpital t .x, i« for tne hospital tor mfedtious dif
ealrs, which (iiliindlion the reader is requested
to observe.
X. Is the hospital, cseteris paribus, a dear or a
cheap lodging and boarding house ? Would
it not at leafl be honest and candid, to place
under the pidure o*the good benevolent Sa
maritan, the rates at which the unfortunate
are to repay it ?
Luke, chapt 10, V. 35, « Take care of him,
and whatsoever thou fpendeft more, when I
come again I will repay tee," feertis to be a fa
vorite text. But as for " going out to tne
highways the hedges and compelling them to
come in, thst the house may be filled," is utter
ly forgotten as well as the context: "Go. ut
quickly into the lanes and ftreetsofthe city,and
bring in hither the poor and the maimed, and
the halt and the blind." Luke 11, v. ai, 13.
A. The hospital is«a cheap boarding house,
and is proved to be so in the answer to the 7th
qyere—And the whole interest of the capital
flock, ?nd all the profits of pay patieats. with
e. ery produ&ive fund is laid out upon the poor,
agreeably to the charter, some of whom are
brought in from the hij>h seas, and feme from
the hedges and high ways.
XI. Though lalt not least. Is it not a notori
ous fad, that from the scarcity of objefH,
the melns of medical and surgical inftruiSien
are very confiderahly diminished ? If two
capital operations are performed in thecourfe
of the winter, it perhaps may he the extant
and the trifling number of other patients
BOARDING in the house, renders,it really ail
objefl of indifferenie to students.
A. I kcow not how many operations are per
formed there in afeaf n, nsr is it in the line of
my duty to inquire in;o it —but I am told, there
wjll be an amputatinn of both legs in a few days
from a froft-bitten negro boy, to which medi
cus ftudiofus would do well to attend, if he is
not alhamed to enter the doors of that ufeful in
ftitution, which he ha, so much abused—he nnv
receive then moA real benefit than he will ever
derive from defaming the only asylum for mani
acs that is ere&ed among us for his rountry
men ; as to his iutinuatiou, that the praitice of
the house is become an objeA of indifference to
t!,e students, it i 9 flrongly contradiiltd by at
least sixty pupils who come every year, up n an
average, from the Weft-Indies, and ft%n\ one
end of this continent to the other to attend it.
Having answered the queries, I will now con
clude in a few words. The managers of the Penn
fylv inia Hofpiial have accounted every year, fdr
mor«than forty five years past, to the Ltgifluture
of the State, for all their proceedings to their fa
tisfa&ion, the evidencn of which is on the records
of several affemblies—ln like manner they have
accounted every year to the contributors, and I
do nor know that the chief juliice. Hate attorney
or speaker of the house of aflijmMy, ever accuf-d
them of mal administration—To those bodies they
are as I mentioned, by 'he charter refponfiHe, hut
not to any other perfons,—nev rthelefs they much
desire to latisfy the enquiries of every humane citi
zen of Pennsylvania of the nature and use« of this
inflitution ; not doubting but that when it is well
un<!< rftood, it will be tl)e me .119 of increasing le
gacies an<4 fubferiptions for the use of the sicK poor
us Pennfylyania.
Though nothing can ever be exp-'iSed to pro
duce a goodefi'e<ft upon the mind of Medicus Stu
diofus, who by the whole complexion of his que
ries, appears to be, a refllefi, envious and discon
tented Physician. A CONTRIBUTOR.
*
CONGRESS.
house of representatives-
Tuesday, April 3.
MR. HARRISON reported a bill provi
ding compensation for the Marlhals,
Clerks, Attorneys, Jurors and Witnesses, in
the Courts of the United States, and for re
pealing certain parts of a£ls therein mention
ed, and for &her purposes, which was com
mitted for to-morrow'.
Mr. Cochran presented the petition of
Johannes Kramer, a soldier in the late war,
praying for a pension. Referred to the com
mittee of claims.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made a report on the petition of
Holker, which was ordered to lie on the ta
ble.
The Speaker laid before the House a let
ter from Rufus Putnam, Surveyor General,
stating the difficulty and impracticability of
running north and south lines according to the
true meridian, in the survey of the North
weltern Territory lands, and suggesting the
propriety of repealing that partofthe law, and
requiring instead thereof, that all instruments
used in the fa id survey, be adjusted to one
meridian.—Referred to the committee on the
fubjeftof North-western Territory lands.
Mr. Gallatin presented the following
Memorial' from forty members of the General
Aflembly of this commonwealth, viz.
To the Congress of the United States.
The Memorial of the fubferibers, Members of the
General AJfembly of the Commonwealth of
Pennfyl<vania,
Refpeftfully •Sbeiveth,
THAT your memorialists faithfully atten
tive to the prosperity and happiness of
their conftituentsj cannot contemplate the
present crisis in tht affairs ot' tlic United States,
without feeling the strongest solicitude, by
every honorable means, to avert the horrors
of the war which threatens : and although
they claim no other influence on yourdelibe -
rations and tranfattions, than that to which
they are entitled in common with all their
fellow citizens, they are persuaded that the
public confidence reposed in them will, at
once, juftify the expfeflion of their fenti
inents, and insure a liberal interpretation of
the motives which aftuate them in addr£fling
those sentiments to your honourable body.
That your memorialists will not, on
occasion, take a retrofpeclive view of the e
vents of the American Revolution, in order
to awaken a sense of gratitude for former fer
vicrt; nor advert to the peculiar charadter of
the European war, in order to mitigate the
feeling of refentmetit forrecent injuries on the
part of France : but regarding only the exit
ing date of their country, its policy, its inter
efls, and its independence, every principle of
patriotism impels them, not merely to depre
cate a public denunciation of hostilities, but
firmly to discountenance every measure which
tends to inflame the spirit of animosity, and
to dissolve the bond of amity with that repub
lic.
That whether your memorialists contem
plate the independent resources of the Union,
or the aid td be derived fiom a foreign alli
ance—the principfes of a Republican system,
or the means of gratifying the best wish of their
constituents—they are alike impressed with
the importance of pursuing a conciliatory and
pacific course. They perceive, indeed, no
glory, no benefit, to be attained for their
country, through the medium of a war, that
can compenl'ate for the stagnation of com
merce, the suspension of agriculture, the ef
fufiou of blood, the waste of treasure, the de- 1
folation of property, and the depravation of
morals, which are its inseparable concomi
tants ; whiie the i (Tue of the European contest
mutt either leave the United States without an
efficient friend, or fatally aflociate them with
the rival of their commerce, and the enemy
of republican! fm.
That your memorialists, under these gene
ral impressions, submit the fubje6t with great
anxiety, but with great deference, to the con
sideration of your honourable body—trusting
that your wisdom, co-operating with thewif
dom of the other departments of the govern
ment, will be competent to the preservation
of peace, without the facrifice of any essential
right, or the violation of any important trust. -
But above all, your memorialists earnestly
hope, that while the constituted authorities
shall deem it unjust or inexpedient to engage
in a public war, the neutrality and peace of
the nation may not be put at hazard by au
thorising private citizens to arm and equip,
under any pretence, the re-llels of the United
States.
William Maciay, M. Leib, Samuel Ma
clay, P. Muhlenberg, John Moore, Bal
ferGeehr, Charles Shoemaker, John Co
ningham, N. B.Boileati, P. Frailey, Da
vid Kraufe, Isaac Van Horn, Aaron
Lyle, Jacob Painter, Abraham Horn, W.
Sterrett, Samuel Snyder, Thomas Mew
horter, W. I.innard, W. Hoge, Kaac
Weaver, junr. Manuel Eyre, JohnSmi
lie, James Harris, John Rea, William
Fiudlay, John Wright, Abraham Hen
dricks, J. Bonnett, lfaac Worrell, Ro
bert P/iilfon, Robert Whitehill, A.Baird,
John Hamilton, John Starbird, Chriftc
pher Lower, J. Ke.m. Saitucl-D.-.!e. t
Brandon, G. Wilson.
Mr. Gallatin moved that this petition
be referred to the committee of the whole on
the (late of the Union.
Mr. Allen was fating fomeobjections to
the petition, on account of its purporting to
be from members of the Legifla'ture of Penn
sylvania; he thought no other weight was due
to such petition's than would be due to a peti
tion from forty other individuals ; when
A message was announced from the Prefix
dent of the United States. It was in the fol
lowing words :
" Gentlemen oj the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the Houfi of Refrefentatives,
" In compliance with the request of the House
of Rcpreftntatives, cxpreffed in their resolution of
the 2d of this month, I transmit to both Houses the
inftruftions to and dispatches from the Envoys Ex
traordinary of the United States to the French Re
public, which were mentioned io my message of the
19th of March last, omitting only some names, and
a few expreflions descriptive of the persons. -
" I request that they may be considered in confi
dence until the members of Congress are fully pof
fefled of their contents, and shall have had opportu
nity to deliberate on the confequcnccs of their pub
lication ; after which time I submit them to your
wifdomi JOHN ADAMS.
" United States, April 3, 1798."
The above melFige having been read, the
galleries and house were cleared of strangers,
and the Houle was occupied in reading the
papers accompanying it from this time (about
hals-past twelve) until part three, when they
adjourned, without making any order re
fpeiting them;
WASHINGTON LOTT ERT
List of Prizes and Blanks.
163 d D3y's Drawing—January 22:
No. Vols. foo. Doh. Aa. Doll. No. Dols.\
37 11943 x 2331° 35297
133 J3s ft 7 407 652
*73 »J 14480 24568 744
283 571 614 37231 x
312 x £22 x 669 258
1320 950 X 25083 38764 x
2098 15645 517 39280 X
39* 16464 x 6i7 4/2
5*4 Jii 661 856
SJJ 5 1 7 * 697 41271 x
927 17*98 2651J -x. '282 x
363/ 18587 x 27013 x 751
4261 x 19374 627 42727
795 x 466 x 847 4^625
5007 833 x 918 x 824 x
6029 20223 28970 45606 X
3* l 2 3 7 29374 X 46633
88c8 254 30385 x 47721
10024 * 493 x 511 48194
822 41516 818 x 463
11163 74* 31757 916
265 22204 32384 x 49416 x
475 39® x 34548 512
12263 x 23102 915 607
7'- 2 *65 * 3?317 740 20
Cj- The above is the last lift wh/'ch bas
been re«eived.
Just Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of France,
And for sale By
Joseph Anthony £s* Co*
l»o bales Beurbon cotton of a superior quality
350 bags do. coffee
24 casks do. Indigo
april 3 diot
TO LET,
AParlour and three Bed Chambers,
Kitchen and Cellar. Enquire at No. 26, ,: outh
Fifth Hreet. 3t april
At No. 149, South Frcnt-flreet,
Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr.
calks
Mountain do. in qr. calks
Cel?menar do. in do.
A few kegs frelb jtaifins
ALSO,
A few packages if Calcutta Geods—
Confining of
Humhums
Tickery
Patna C hintz
Perftans, black and coloured
Bandannas, Choppa Romals, Barhar and
Pullicat Handkerchiefs
april 2. *3t
The Subscribers have For Sale,
The following GOODS, viz.
Red and blue Bernagor* Handkerchiefs
Santipore . do.
Sutroraal do.
Doreas
Coffidah t MUSLINS
Chacon f
Book J
Hummums
Coarse striped cotton Cloths
Elack and other coloured Indian Taffities
Do. do. -..hinel&do.
Black and white Chinese Sattins
Blue and white do. Lu tsftrings
Heavy black Pepper
Ifmjrlafs
Cordage assorted
Old Madeira Wine
Port do.
Shei ry do. in quarter caiks
Claret in cases
Holland Gin in pipes
Englife Perry
An iron Book Cafe
PHILIPS, CRAMOND £sf Co.
march 3 r . 3^_
freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
NOW lying at Jeffe a "d R-Wain's wharf—A
stout, llrong vessel, of about 270 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT £5? KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
Who have 'JUST RECEIVED, and BOk SALE,
12 bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
2 do. Vatterliornes
I do. bleached Medians „
1 package Oi)>Cloth
I chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cafe»
29 anchors pearl Bary'e, and -
4 cases elegant Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THU HAVE FOE SALX
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
n {mailboxes', Rice, Brim Pone, Tumblers, Win
dow G!afs, Slates, cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, fje(lian», Brown Rolls, Polilb Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
n l" ch 20. tuthnw
Hyion and Young Hyson Te?.
A few, eh efts of excellent quality* for sale, 'cor
ner of Second and Pine ftrectf,. D*c 26—eotlFOREIG zV INTEL LIGENCi.
1 • *.
PARIS, January 27.
ExtraS of a letter from Rome, dated Ja
nuary 1.
" We-are yet in a consternation, in conse
quence of the dreadful event which lately
took place in tbis city, the details of which
are doubtless already known in France , to
these we subjoin the following ;
" The Neapolitan ipimfter, on this oc
casion, dispatched two extraordinary couri
ers, immediately succeeding each other to
hiscourt. The Spanifhminifter, who had
determined to withdraw, at last acquiesced
to the pressing a«d repeated invitations of
our secretary of ftatc, by fending a courier
to the court of Madrid. * There has been
an extraordinary meeting to advise what
■flionld be done in this fatal conjunfture.-
Tt is agreedto feud Cardinal Brafchij to Na
ples, accompanied by lord Goleppi, to im
plore the succour and proteftion of that
power—those two deputies departed the
29th ult. But what can the court of Na
ples do for us, otherwise than to give us
their councils of wisdom and moderation !•
Their intercelfion even, near a government
so juO.ly irritated against ours, would it be
of any weight ?
"We fliall fay nothing of their military
succours, for one hostile movement would
inevitably involve their ruin.
" The greater part of the cardinals, and
other diflinguifhed characters of this capi
tal, are preparing ts abandon ft. In vain
iloes an edift just published, order, on pain
of death, that all the citizens, and all ftran
ger3, of what nation soever, be refpe&ed,
several of tbis last description have already
left the city, and many others are preparing
to follow.
• ' *
" In this frightful anxiety our govern
ment have recourse to all forts of means if
pofilbleto escape fromthe unhappinefs which
menaces it. It invokes the aid of the pow
ers of both earth and
pedited a courier to Vienna imploring the
mediation or succour of the Emperor. It
has also thought it its duty to invoke the
interceflion of the Duke of Tufcany. 11
has caused the theatres to be suspended. It'
hasjuft ordered eight days of prayer, to ob
tain the proteftion of the most high. Of
all our governing people the Pope is yet the
leaft to be pitied. He is in such a feeble
state, that he has been kept ignorant of all
that pasTes until this very moment.
" The 30th Dec. the remains of general
Duphoz were deposited in the parifhchurch
of St. Jean de la Malva.
" he greatest part of those Frenchmen,
whose popular principles are known, have
taken their flight in spice of securities which
were offered to inspire them, and are on
their way to Ancona ; where they will have
ftrohger motives to conceive themselves se
cure.
" The palais as Cardinal Neveu is guard
ed with a single eye by the centinels. It is
not known to what place Louis Brafchi has
retired.
" The pnefts cannot but be in a conster
nation at an event, the-refult of wKiyh will i
be the total abolition of their tyrannic pow
er. In the mean time their malice ceases
to be glutted at the expence of those who
are suspeCted by thefn. Among those who
are arretted, some French were found, who
were however released upon the intercession
of chevalier Azara, and some DaueVswho
owed their liberty to the .intercession of the
S'wedifh minister. About 60 perfQns have
been inearcerees. _Thefe meafurtfs fp badly
calculated, the consternation of the govern
ment, the scarcity of provisions,, all concur
to render the crifi3 flill more violent, and
to augment the force and audacity of the
French party.
" There is at this moment a fnbfcription
opened for the ere&ioti of a monument for
the general, so cowardly (lain by our foi
diers. A very great number of Patriots
have already fubferibed.
There have been a trifling infurre&ion in
several places, particularly around the vic
tualling houses ; but they have been easily
appealed.
By the foregoing you tvill fee the dfpofition
of the mafr of the people. They desire a change
of government ; but they are much opposed to
the excefjes which accompany revolutions ; they
arc prepared to welcome every one tuhoJheill
come and dißate to them the laim : provided
they might fee the end of the sacerdotal authori
ty, 'which by its perfidies, and its misdemean
ors is become the oljeß of universal execration.
BATAVIAN NATIONAL ASSEM
BLY:
The Constitutional committee announced
on the 26 Nivofe (Jan. 16.) that they will
exert all their efforts, to present a copy to
the affemblv towards the latter end of Fe
bruary. They have taken for the basis of
the constitution, the great principles of the
retolution, the rights and duties of the
man, and of the citizen ; Civil Liberty and
Equality ; a democratic representative, an
energetic but responsible exefcutive power ;
a perfect unity in the government, with
respect to both finances and politics ; a di
vision between the church and state, and
the right of the people to make alterations
iu their constitution.
Letters from Hamburgh mention, that
conformable to the orders, which he had
received, the Pretender had quitted Blacken
burgh and retired to Pologns.
Generel Brune, namedambaffador to Nap
les cculd not accept of that mission, he will
command the firft division of the armv of
England.
General Murat, who accompanied Gen
eral Buonaparte to Paris, has commenced
his journey for Italy ; General Buonaparte's <
journey to Raftadt is put .off for a few days. 1
We are informed from the Hague, that
on the 18th of January, the Republican' ■
celebrated the 3d year of the departure of
the Stadtholderian household for England.
—This feaft was anouueed the precredinsr
day by the discharge of cannon. 1
• | Xfje
| PHIL AD E LPHIA,
fc. i WEDNESDAY EVENING, April 4
I _ COMMUNICATIONS.
B»che, in the Aurora of tbis morning, has
„ , ] Cn \ r por ! *7" t0 the P ub,l( : 'he contents of
3C- | the dispatches from our comiaiffioners which
in. were yesterday laid before the two houses us
to Congrels by the President, as a confidential com
iad municanon Whether Mr. Bachi-received his
;ed i information from report as he states.or whether
f through the channel of force friend
ier h n ,Kk e h 0r m "f lhe > w ' 6 hou; ">
o-Il* • t0 d £"?f wJ l e (l[ .th.ofc <iU.patcJ.es
en iha.i receive an »fficial publfcatiort. T»ere is,
rat however, one part of the information' which
- leads mt to suppose that, as yet, tbfc editor of the
h- Auro, ' a has had recurrence o.Jv to his own fe
m. B aci< y »"d experience to f«rn:ih him with the
luminary of thafe dispatches; I allude to the
,dt overturt» for r.wuey *
■he His memory, far be doubUefs has a good one,
4a- would immediately furnifh him with the molt
us complete proof that French negotiation and mo.
I !• »<r S° !'and in hind-; and even if it could be
>nt ! ippofta ;fcfat frsm the tapfe of a year or two
be his-re.-.)lledtion in this particedar had failed
him, it is not to be doubted that a recurrence to
his books 01 feme ether authentic document in
try his pofitfficn would amply supply its deficiency,
aid Where a fa<£l can Le well acc< unted for with
out sUpposing a viohtion of every principle of
nd duty and honor, I would in candor presume
• that there had not-been that violation ; lam
L for the prefcnt, diftiQf d t«. j.,lieve
that Bacne nas published before ijis confidentiaT
lln friends have had time and opportunity to make
sn- their disclosure to him.
■d,
dy 'flie chance oT truth in the Aurora was
ng always bad, but its editor has recently ta
ken into employ, some' affiftarttr which af
rn- ford, it no ch atlce at all.
|if The public therefore have less need of
ch caution than ever, refpe&ing the informa
vv- tion contained in that pa&fr whether poffi
:x- tive or conjettural.
he -u >9
it There can be no doubt that the reported
he statement in the Aurora refpejfting the con-
It, tents of the dispatches from our envoys is
It fubftantiallv falfe and made with the word
ib- designs.
Of __
he- The agents of mifchief, the enemies of
de the government, the teok'ofa foreign pow
all er will ere long be placed in a proper
point of vievr. These wretehes are habit
ial uated to lies and ilander as refpe&s the ex
ch ecutive, and now have the consummate fel
ly and impudence to approve of what re
:n, futcs at oice their assertions for yeaj-s I
ve had rather be bit by a mad dog, than re
cb ceive the applause of such caitiffs,
on
ve Maclay
fe- And his pretty gang of Jacobins, among
whom I fee the name of Filson (quere, is
d- this Parkinfon ferry Filfon so famous for his
is patriotism in the Western infurre&ien, and
ias who received the reward of his labors in
goal) having been difappointedin theirhopes
■r- of participating in the admitiiftration of the
ill government in the form of legislative
w- resolutions, have'condefcended to present
es their difgraceful wishes to Congrgfs as hum
bo Ue petitioners—A measure of this kind, is
10 worthy only of the arbitrary and despotic
10 principles and dispositions vvhich hav.e mark
>n ed all the proceeding of'the friends of Li -
io berty and Equality-^-Thefe fellows knowing
he that if they limply filled themselves hilly
ve Maclny, Billy Smiley, Filjtn, Horn, White
ly bill, £sY. £sV. tfiey would be thrown into the
n- bundle with the twenty or thirty tag, rag
ur and bobtail petitioners of Milton, have there
id fore fought to give themselves a borrowed
ie conference by affixing to their names,
Members of the Legislature of Pennjylv/rnia"
m Pray is this kind of interference with Corn
er grefs a legislative duty,rrightt t or a3 ? If it is
>1- not, and most surely it is nfct, these fellows
ts qui ad hoc, as to the purposes of their peti
tion, in the chara&er and tranfs&ion they
in jnow appear, are no more members of the
c- Legislature of P.ennfylvania,thßn Cullender,
y Bache, or the ftoue cutters in the goal yard.
The Legiflatutc of Pennfylvanfa, haveex
m prefsly disavowed the fentimentsand conduft
%e of these men—they were not fullered even
to to lay on the table, ar.d yet a weight is now
'.y attempted to be given to them, by ftiling
'll the petitioners " Members of the Legislature
•d of Petwjylvania." This is the republican
»- itm of Jacobins ; to endeavor to give an im
-- portance to private opinions, by the prop
'• of office, to extend a psltry official pride
- and consequence into their individual traa
fac'tions—Suppofe Timothy Pickering was to
d prefer a counter petition as Secretary of State
II Oliver Wolcott, zs-Secretary of the "Ireafury
0 &c. &c. what would these fellows fay ?
f MR. FENNO,
e I Oblerve by a note to Mr. Harper's
e speech 011 the Foreign Intercourse Bill, that
d lie cnarges a certain gentleman high in of
n sice witii being the " author and secret mo
; ver of war with England, and alliance of
h fenfive and defenfive with France." As the
decihons of all men on matters ©f import
d ance are luppofcd to be governed by lome
s motives either secret or avowed, it is pro
pet that the public Ihouldknow, that the
t father in law of that gent'eman was indebt
-1 td in large sams to British fubje&s, which
- debts he as executor<o his father inlaw's
euate has been called upon to pay. How
- far til is circumstance opetateiftvith the gen
-1 tleman to take a part ih the late revolution
f I leave for othersto decide ; but, that all
the former British debtors in this country
- without <,ne foli.ary exception, were violent
-1 ly opposed to an amicable aojullment of the
5 difference* with tiiat nation is a fa£t not to
. be controvei ted—and if to that class of men
t .we add all the Gamblers, Builders of Pri
• vateers, Cape Francois contractors, French 1
F Agents, French Solicitors, French Spies,
I'rench Super.dams 'arid expe&ants of
; i'rench. favors, it will furnifh a pretty cor
redt hit of the advifcrs and defenders of
I
1 French aggrtflions on the rights and pfo
peities of the eitiiens of the United States.
IMPARTIAL.
Democrats jll in an Up- oak
So alarmed are they at the proposal of
some of the young men of the Northern
Liberties associating, training themselves in
the military exercise for the express purpose
«f supporting government ; that Dosor
L. was at Germantovvn on Sunday, con
futing with a Drunken Butcher and a Hog
Doftor, immediately after which, whether
in consequence of their advice and influence
or from his own mere motion, it is report
ed and believed he went ess ty the governor
tu endeavor to prevail on him to issue a pro
clamation to prevent the. youth from, holding
such unprofitable affectations, far he
fuceeded wc have not y'etMearnt,
Fer the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FEfJNO,
WE havelately seen much in the news
papers of two aftsof the British Parliament,
tending, as it is said, to cramp the.trade of
this country. Indeed Mr. Gries's last speech
travelled quite from the question iuthe House
of Representatives, in order to give them a
flap. He fays those a<9ts " will transfer the
carrying trade from American to British ves
sels." Now I will venture to fay Mr.Giles
has never read both tlsofe afts ; and yet he
is declaiming against them.
One of those afts is for the sole purpose
of giving to the vessels of friendly nations,
a right of trading with the British East-In
dies, which they did not before poffefs—
and why should Mr. Giles complain of this
aft ? It was because he thought (as he said)
it was authorized by the Brjtifh treaty—
" Hinc ills lachrymae." Hence all his mur
muring. Let me a/k Mr. Giles to read for
•nee, one of the adis he speaks of—he will
find it was neither particularly authorized
by,'nor grew out of the treaty—he will find
that instead of restraining, it ertlarges the
carrying trade df friendly ifetibiis—he will
find likewifc- that inilead of beginning to
operate, in January last, as he supposed.it
was in force from the 19th of July last, the
day on which the aft passed. This last cir
cumstance is of no other importance, than
that it proves, with the other mistakes, that
the " Farmer" had never read the. aft—l
hope, therefore, when he reads it, and finds
that it has not grown out of the British'
treaty, but is an aft equally regarding all
friendly nations, his particular animosity to
ward! it will cease.
The other aft of which Mr. Giles speaks,
grew entirely out of the treaty. It has
been said in some of the papers, that by
this aft, tobacco carried to Great-Britain in
American vessels will pay a duty of iysd.
sterling per hundred more than tobatxo car
ried in British vessels—l believe tbis is true,
& this has roused the /arwrViii'dignation ;
but I fnppofe he had forgot we were at least
equal with them, when we laid a greater
excess of duty upon almost every hundred
pounds, weight of British merchandize bro't
here in a British vessel ; and that' a single
trunk of British may pay ;
50 - dollars brought here in a
British, than when brought in an American
veffcl. An. OBSERVER.
To the Militia officers of the City and County
of Philadelphia.
You are called upon in the Aurora of this
morning, rt affernble at the house of Philip
Pancake to-morrew evening on business of
importance. From various and obvious ci;--
cumftances no doubt can he entertaiged as
to the objeft for which the call is made.
That it is to incite you to entet into mea
sures for oppoflng the government of your
country, to induce you t « declare your dis
approbation of its conduft, at the most
gloomy period America has ever witnessed ;
at a crisis when its political horizon is clou
ded by the black and malignant vapors of
domestic faftion and of impending foreign
warfare ; at a time when your assistance is
most peculiarly relied upon, and when you
are looked up to as the guardian supporters
of our national rights and as the firm, de
cided, gallant defenders of our national
honor, no one can hesitate to bejieve. At
Inch a time it is surely incumbent on" you
to attend with more than common anxiety
to the effeft which the expression of sen
timents hostile ts our conih'tutional rulers
may have on our public affairs ; well to con
sider whether a display of disunion does not
tend to invite aggression and invafian ; whe
ther it is not eqaally calculated to depress
tne lpirits of our own citizens and to ele
vate the hopes of our enemies : and whe
ther it is confident either with your honor
as soldiers, or your integrity as citizens to
fly back when real danger approaches. Did
you accept of your appointments merely
to shine as peaceful foldicrs in our streets,
or to parade the city in a military uniform ?
I banish from my mind the difgraceful idea.
It is an atrocious insult to your feelings
for a moment to entertain it ; but if you
fuffer youtfelves to become the dupes of
the designing and faftious, tj)e world will
embrace the opinion altho' even then I am
latisfied it would be but a specious delusion.
That you have a right as citizens fully
& freely to express your political
no one will deny, but that you have this
right a? foidiers, is this assertion of a prin
ciple the most ruinous to republican gov.
ernments. The civil military; depart
ments ought always to be perfeftly diftinft;
the military should always be kept in ffrift
subordination to the civil power. As foi
diers you are no: to deliberate, but aft. j
This is the purpose for which you were in
stituted and not for that of controling and !
the operations of government, j
Why then are you ca led upon to meet as
miluiu officers ? Is't supposed thac yourde
cifions wjl] have more weight wb en you are
dieffed in the uniform of a soldier than
when habited in the apparel of a private
citizen, oris it intended to organize you
into a body, of prastorian bands who are al-
■ ways lo be ready to deftrriy the real liber
ties of tSe people and to usurp their r'ghts;
Whatever may have been the expeditions
i of those vfho have made this call, confident
I am that yon will not fuffer vdurfelves jc
become *he instrument of their nefarious
projefts nbr the accomplices in their liber
ticide attempts.
April 3 . DECTTJS.
The D.iaifh (hip Khrona/capt. Grotzma
clier, left •Hamburgh for this port the 31ft
of July laf'f, made the coast early in Novem
ber, was blown off, and after encountering
1 a constant fucceflion of contrary winds and
! hard weather, wasontheistft. ult. cad away
on Cape 0 >d—For three mo nths the crew
were destitute of water, save what they
caught front the clouds ; three of them died,'
worn out with fatig'ie—ttfe caps.'' 'aVid re
mainder were saved; and the greatest part of
the cargo, tiho' damaged.
Interesting information from the Gazette
Francois.
In a late letter from London, we find
the following interesting details of the criti
cal state of the English East-India affairs.
" The French government are doubtless
informed ofthe projeft of an invaJion of our
rich possessions in Bengal, which to us is
truly alarming. It is well known that
: when citizen DefcoJ-ches suddenly quitted
' his embassy at Constantinople, it was then
. said, that iuftead of returning tp France,
he departed for Perlia in company with 4
or 500 enterprizing French officers. It
was then supposed that' the objeft of his mis
sion was to direst the operations of con
quering the Ruffians, then in Persia. On
the contrary, the tirft news we received ef
theinvafioo of lndoftan by Zeimaktfen Shah
informed us also, that he had witk him this
said Monsieur DefcOrches, late French
ambafiadoi of' Constantinople, direftihg
with great aftivity all his motions.
" By the last letters from-Calcutta, they
were not without the «oft .lively anxiety on
accouut of the rapid'advances of their con
querors, who had already subdued or ratfier
ravaged all the north of Hindoftan, mena
cing also Benares, the frontier of Bengal.
Thus at the moment General Braithwait
departed from Madras, for his expedition a
gainst Muir Shah, our possessions were men
aced from a"fide little expefted ; and if it is
certain that citizen Defcorches direfts the
operations of Zeimakecn Shah, and has
with him the number of French officers it is
said we can no longer calculate upon the fu
perori'ty of our European troops in Asia.
" In fine, 90,000 cavalry, dire&ed by
French officers, and probably seconded by
the French Nabob of Lucknau and Tippoo
Sultan, whose ingestions are strongly fuf
pefted, are capable of striking a deadly
blow to our pawer in India.
'• A remarkable circumstance is, that it
is not yet known in Europe who this Zei
makeen Shah is, and from what country he
comes : If one of the Persian chiefs com
ing from Kandahar, or a chief independant,
Tartar, from Samarcande. The last is
most probable, uo Uis army is composed en
tirely of Caralry ; and their ferocity is such
they spare neither age nor sex."
Under the Paris head of a French paper,
we find an account of an attack on the
Frenjh general Menard in the Swiss territo
ry, in which one of his aids was assassinated.
It is a most Angular faft, that when the
French want to make some alteration in
the government of a state of Europe, it so
happens that some insult is offered to their
Citizens, which becomes the excuff
tacking the liberty of that (late.
BALTIMORE, April 2.
Arrived ihip James, captain M'Carty,
25 from Arquin. On the 15th of
March was boarded by an Englifli cutter
of 10 guns, off Cape Nicfeola Mole, the
captain of which informed, that they had
on the 14th inft. spoke an English sloop of
war coming through the Cawcafcs, by
which they had learned, that the French
had possession of Port-au-Prince.
Arrived (hip Atlantic, capt. Hutchins, 63
days fromCadiz—Nonews.lCaptain Hutch
ins experienced very severe weather, both in
his outward passage ; he vras driven off the
capes for 25th day3—Left no Ameiican
vessels at Cadiz.
gr The City Dancing Aflembly,
Invnded for Thu.-fday evening next is unavoidably
postponed until Friday, the 13th of April when the
i'eafon will betlofed.
April 4
KOSS & SI MS ON,
HAVH FOR SALF,
A small invoice of bed Triage
COI'FEE, in barrels and bags
J 2 bales fuper.ior Madras» Blue Cloths
Carolina ludij-a firft quality
A few Bafras, Coflas, and a q'antity of
BTt rig-j 1 COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
lamaica and ) p....
"Bengal j RUM "
Api il 4. §
Just Received,
AND for sale by »*»
ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes Molaftes
Rarfins .n
in barrels—and
A few tons oi'
4*h mo. 4th fiw I
NOW LANDING, i
From on boar 1 the fchr". Clnrlb'te from Boston,
30 thefts Bohea
30 do. Hyson £■ TEAS
36 do. Sonchcnf:3
And from on board the ! ho n r Favoni jte from
Ri' hiriond (Vir.)
flour
/ nd also 5 quantity of WHItAT
For Sale 011 nafonab'e terms, by
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. »6&, Swilh Front ftrVft.
April j' 3i*jw
? NEW-THEATRE, '
Mr. Fennells Night..
THURSDAY EVENING, April 5,
Will be prcK-uici (Tor tl.e 4iri> "time tkw feafcr) a
celebrated Tragedy. called
KING LEAR ;
AND. Hlfi THREE DAUGHTERS*
King I,sir, Mr. Fennell
Burgundy, ~ U'arre!!, jun.
Cornwall, Hardinge
AlVany F olc
GloSer, Warrtll
Kent, . Wajivn
Edgar, Wignell
Edmund, Mar :h ell
Gentleman Ulher, Francis
Oldman, Hunter
Goneril . Mrs. Hardinge
, ' M:s Francis .
Aran's. 1 M.f L'Etfran^e
Cordelia, Mrs, Merry
Knights attending on the King, Officers, MeflVn
gers, &c. McfTrs. Lavancy, Lafferty, Do&or, Sea.
End of the Tragedy, a Ballet Dance (compofcd
hy Mr. Byrne) called,
THE DRUNKEN PROVENCAL ;
OR, THE SAILOR'S RETURN.
Ivre, mr Byrr.j—Will, mr Warrell, jun—Vi
' car, mrDoftor—Moles, mr Bliflett—DjckevOol
i flip, mr T Warrell.
Su!an, mil's Milbourne—Jenny, mrs Byrne.
To which will tc added, a ntw hrce Called tlie
ADVERTISEMENT; '
OS, A NEW WAY TO GET MARRIED.
[Written by Mr. "Fennell.J •
Alderman Gof. «ii, Mr, Warren
Young CJofwell, Bernard
O'' rigger, Hardtuge
Peruque, ' Foi
Harry, tfur.vood
Thomas, Bttffett
Mrs'. Courtney, Mrs. Francis
, Mrs. Snip, Mrs. L'E ft range
Bctt y. Mifsi.'iit range
Kitty, Mrs; Dodtcfr
1 ickets to be had at the usual places.
£/" On Saturday Evening, the favorite Cotne
dy of THE HUMORIST, or, WHO'S WHO?—
IHE WIDOW OF MADABAR; to which will
he added, the Farce of the WANDERIN'G ]£W
for the Benefit of Mr. HA R WOOD.
1 he friends of American Seamen,
Imprtffed on board Britii Ih.'ps of war, wh->
are desirous of cUefling their reUafe, are requeu
ed to farnifh proof of their citia nftiip and ef their
citizenlhip and of the description ot their persons
to the Department of Sta:e, whence it will l;e
forwarded to the Public Agents in Great Britain
and the Wed Indies.
Department of State, ">
Philadelphia, a April, i;; 8 j 4 3t
The Owners of 5982 Dollars
Captured in the fchocner Lovely Lady of New-
York, captain Edward Johnlton, by the French
privateer Revanche, captain Antoine Berard, on
tfie 13th of last July, arc requeffced 'J) make imme
diate application to the Department of State re
fpedling the fame.
Department of State, ">
Philadelphia, April 2, 1798.3
Muslins at Au&ion.
On SATURDAY MORNING, the ?th inft. at 11
o'clock, at FOOTMAN & Co's Au&ioa (tore,
WILL BE SOLD,
15 bales of East India Muslins,
By the bale, for appraved endorsed notes at 60
and 90 days—confuting of
Baftas
Coflacs t
Guzzenas
Handkerchiefs, &c.
The whole entitled to drawback.
FOOTMAN ssf Co. Au&n.
April 4 1
Manchester Goods.
Received by the latcft arrivals from X.iv< rpool, fe
veral trunks, fjjjptrie for tue pr fimui.t--1 —■"
proachingf<iaffcn\ yghi*J' •y+*-~rTokl v/.*ry
low Jxw- - <rTtl on a fliorf credit, viz.
"7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes '
Fancy Waiftcoatirg in Mars illes, &e.
Cotton and silk and cotton HoC.iv, i antalo n
&c. * '
A variety of (Engftrh,) Um'.'f -llas
N niteens, cott< n Hhkfs. Shoe bin 'ing-, &e.
N. B. A cafe of printed • tn;l - rs. and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handk, rchieis . niitled to
drawback, and very fui-ahb frr the Wcit-liidies. •
Apply No. 35 South Vv'atsr and'eoruer of Chef
nut fvreet 4 /•.!»«; i'— 4'> v
Madeira Wine7~ ~
A few p'pes of remarkably fine Madeira, ft
for imtnesfiate afe, and at a reduced pri<*e~Ftr
JAMES YAKO.
April 4. - ,], w
TO ]SE "LET,"
Andpoflejjivn givn immediately,
A genteel three story brick House,
N. . 7, North Eighth lift et,
24 feet front an 55 feet de?p, with ha Ifome
Garden Enquire at No. 128 Sf.ru'.eftrtct.
April 4 5
To the AfHidled with ~"
XJERVOU ■ Ui r r.■■ley*, lol's of appetite, female
coflplain's. ccnfii'.utioa*,.inward
v. cakncfl.cs, lownefs cf,fpiritf, ftminal cakfiefles
indigestion, decayed, we.-kor relaxed c i»:*itution»*
pains in the prvcrty of blood, finltiro anx
ieties, ;:nd tremor-., which so dreadfully ass fl tha
weak, the sedentary atidtiiedclirate, every fymp
toni of extreme debility, attendant -on the in hfere
tions of yoith, the of a di.Tipated
life ; excefj of pleaiure or grief, tfcangc of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, fpiritmms liquors, or
any intemperance j disorders incident to yciin^
girls and women at a certain period of Hil °
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of abfohitely fpecific andunparal
le'ed virtues, in thefpeedy anrfefFevSual cure of the
above-rliforders, having food atrial of many fuc
c*fsfHlyars, during wh.'ch pei iod raany have been
restored from the hrin!- ef »i le --rave.
Youth and age of either fix, are equally th-cb
jeils ps this Rc'lorative, .and they vrill uniformly
participate in its ftlabrions and effefls •
lor whctfc'.rthc fyflea'has received a stock, and is
debilitated, from inirr idencies or inattention in
the earlier part, of life, oris finking under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will give prefeut relief to, at d afford a pleafmg
profpea of returning health and Itrengtb, by "iv
iiig tore to the mnfcular system and eigans
gcdion, and in a great mcslure renov;t. : ng the coa
(litntioß.
Worn n at any period o. r life, may by this medi
c r.e l>efreed fr m the 010 ft afflifiing disorders in
ci "ent to the :cx, and : t a certain psriod it is molt
I ighlv n'elul-
The Cordial Rfflorative Balsam i« fold genuine
(only) by ill- proprietor, Dr. JAMES CHURCH,
at his mediiine {fn|.c, No 1, Sou h Third . rett,
luxt Market *reet, P]j li elahia ■, wl ere may fye
bac an account of the virtu's c f this ReiUra-ive
jndalill of cures.
April 3 aawjwJust received, Scl
FROM roRT-AUPRINCI, Tf
AnJ FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRIC&RS, £
no hhds. Coffee entiti
46 tierces do. (
ioo' barrels do. u
100 bags do '
110 hog2»eadsof Muscovado Sugar j* crec
80 barrel* of do. ' r*Tf C
40 hoefbead* of Molasses | u ' c
4 bales of Cotton *T <
a hoglheads of Cocoa 1 3
WILLINGS FRANCIS, f ' d ™
Penn-ftreet. r " "
, & open
march li. J . t j, e r
FOR SALE, Com
BV thE subsCßlßirs, No. n, Penn-ftreet, (or i
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjl ing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffaes Punjura Cloths phi
Sanahs Guzztydo.
Humhuras Charconna Dorea Ka
Blue CK th Tanjibs on t
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU j The
Mamoodys Checks I feet
Maharagonget Pawia Hkfs. Ihot
Ginghkfiis M»lmu. de. his
Guzzenas Bandannoes and
Gurrahs Siflerfoy feri
Piniafcoes Choppa Romali heij
Salgatchys Sooty do. der
Gillie RomaU Persians of various col. rel'
Meek Pulicats bro
aoo tons SUGAR ar .
.e,ooo lb. PEPPER. an . d
Willings fcf Francis. J™
The Piece Goods ing
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that eh a
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
, Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele- ™
gant patterns and heft colours ctl!
February 8. dtf Id §
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass I
FOa SALE, ot diffeient sizes, at a very large I
discount from the sterling cost. If thi* Glass is J
not difpofedof before the stli o! April, it will be <r
Ihipped from this port n j \
For terms apply to No. 89* South rhird-tlreet. I
march 26. § iw I ali
THE PARTNERSHIP OF tal
WELLS fcf MORRIS, £
Having expired on the 1 Ith February last, j fti
all persons having demands against the said ed
Partnerffcip, are rcquelted to furnith their accounts Y
for fettcmeat y anA those indebted to the fame, to I ro
make immediit.- payment to the fubferiker. 1 is
GIDEON H. WELLS. kr
N. B. The bulinels will be carried on as hereto- j ra
fore, by the fukferiber, at his Store, No. IJJ, Mar- b)
Jtet Preet. IW march »4. | «
NoncE ;
Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred I
i. Debt of the United Sues ol the following "
celcription. »i»—No. 10033. 10034. and 1003J,
for jooo dollarsaach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
. ftan»ing on the book* «f theTrcafury of the Urn- aj
ted .States, in the n:.me of Benjamin Waddington, w
of Lanovur H*iu"e,iicar bargavenney in England,
Esq. have Hftn 101 l by the capture ol the Ihip Bac
chus, from hence to London, in June last. i his, I
ther fore notifies those whom it may concern, that I
»ps lication wiilbemad- at the Ireafury ot the U- I r
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood. c
march 71 h
r j 'Hli term of Co-partner;bip between the sub- h
L fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed- The debts and con- 1
cem*of the fame will be fettled by John Miller, j
Jun. to whom all those indebted Co the p>r ncrfhip t j
are earnettly requested t» make payment to, with- 1
cut delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
" —: February '9 I
From on board the Ship Sali-t-, I
Calcutta,
AND FO* SAL SV THE SUBSCRIBIR,
1600 bigs prime Sugar,
800 do. pmgtr
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 § I
* FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chtfnut-ftreet,
quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrahs Mameodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas ' anda Coflaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calic»es
Pala/nnoors Romall Handkerchiefs
/mongft them are a great proportion ofthema
uufaAures of Patn.
BritiH\ Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
Frhruary 19 S
Alex. J. Miller Iff James Davis,
Having entered into partucrlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
thi y have opened a Wholcfale Dry Good Store,
at No 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend keteping a general as
fojtment of India, Oermet, Jrijl, French and
tijh MannfaiSuresfot sale, on advantageous termr"
for calh or a lhort creoit.
Febraary 19
Canal Lottery' —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thelOth
inft. Tickets for Sale in thi* Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm BLACKBIIRN's Lott.ry.
an J . Brokers Office, No. 64, Sooth SeconJ-flreet—
-1 ickc - in the -chuylk 11 Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollau. where check books are kept lor r.gifler
ing and examining in these, the Oity of W alhing
ton, No ll.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion whare tkkas may !-e had in moftM the Lotte
ries authcrifcd by law in any of the States of the
Union. v
N.B. The b»fincfsof a Fsoict*, inbuyingand
fellirg all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco»Rtine Bills and Notes of Hand, fate of
Lands, Houies, See.&c. will He duly attended to,
b y WM. ELACKBURN.
Nownber 15 §
ROSS & SIMSON,
HATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
a quantity ©f Bengal COTTON
tergal aUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and B *gal j
300 calks RICE, rnd
A jarce' of Qiip building RED CED 'R.
»7- f
Schuylkill permanent Bridge. Ink
THE l'ubfcribers CommifHon3r« appointed by
1 ana SL of afTemb'.y ol this Com nun, wealth,
entitled •• An a£t to authorize the Governor ot T) t
" tins Commonwealth to incorporate a company XJ
■' lor ereaiug a perma.i. Nt bridge .ve* the nver Eng*
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of PhilM- phia, ges .
hereby give uotic , that Books are prov Med as the as ad
law direds ; and that we will proceed to receive well
fubferiptions for •he Company Stock, oa the ninth ings
day of April next, at the City Hall, in the city of N
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be ■ eceiv.d BR."
from ten o'clock in th« morning till tWo clock, ny 1
P M. of that day ; »od the books w.U continue co'le
opea during those hours of lucceeding Aiys until the 1
the number, required by the said law to enable the who
Commiflioners to certify the fame to the Governor obta
for incorporating the Stockholders, be lubfenbed _m
F RICHARD PETERS, A
JOHN PEROT,
GODFREY HAGA, 1
MATTHEW M'CONNEL, 1
WILLIAVJ SHEAF!?. A
Philadelphia, iqtb March, 179*1 ft 73 aw iL Urj;
Ran away from the fubferiber, s P ri
on the 14th inlK two indented Irifli StfVant Men: I "
TlSomas M'Guire, about 15 year* of age, and 5
I feet 8 inches" high, robnil, flout, and well made, I
lhort black hair, remarkabli for a fear on one of I j
his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
I and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my I
service Jeffrv Corbet, about the fame age and
I height, but of a milder disposition, and more Hen
der make, lhort brown hair ; thair working appa-
relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse (
| brown linen, check and brown lin<tn Ihirts, j
yarn stockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and ruflett leather fhoas; they have other doarhing
I which altogether gives them the appearance of sea- I
I faring men,' ut have been brought up to the farm- I
ing business ; no doubt will have forged pafTc and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and I
p I have taken the poll road to l J h' lapel phi a, I pur- j
I chafid them thelall fall of capt. Rsllins, in Balti
more. 1 will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
'I so that 1 get them, and will pay all reasonable 4n(
J charges if brought home, or if feparared. Thirty j
• Cellars for Thomas, and Twenty for )- ffiry. d
f ARTHUR
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. 3 aw 3 w I
s Forgeries Committed.
e -T T THERhAS fevaral forgeries have been com- j
I VV mittert in- this city by one or two persons I
I knr-.wn by the names of Dr. Grant, alias Smith, 1
I alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a greeacoat,
I tall in peiftn, and genteel, had loft one or two j
I tteth in front ; lodged, about July, at r * j
I Grimes'* tavern, at the George, in North S;cond- I
j ftrcet ; his friends live in New-England ; fuppof- j
d ed to have committed several forgeries in New- I
t« York, and is said to be confined at tke wheel-bar
o I row at Baltimore for stealing watches, ihe other I
lis a lhort thick man, by the name of Gilbert, — j
I known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. Bignall, and ieve- I
>• J ral other persons in this city. Information given J
r- j by any person of the above men, to Wm. Prest- I
man, No. 15, SoMth Fifth-ftreet, will be elteem
" I ed a favor. Gilbert is between 20 and 30 I
I years old ; yellow, sickly look.
d march 17. *3 aw 3 w .
W anted,
? I An adlive, cleanly, induflrious woman to cook
a/id do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
"• I will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
' ply.—Enquire of the Printer. r
c " I February l 5
is, 7
" Notice is hereby given,
I 'T'HAT application will be made for the renewal I
1 of 1 Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
I United States, Handing in the name of the Snbfcri- I ,
_ ber, No. 5004, and dated July n, 1797—the fama
b- I having keen loft. |
il- JOHN GRAHAM
>»1 I march 5 I
«,\ TO LET,
p, J And may he entire Jon immediately,
;h * A good dry Store,
I Three (lories high, and in an excellent ftind for I
» j Vi'fiasfs. Apply to I y
Thomas Ssf JoJhua F'tflier, I t
I march I. § No j, Dock-llreet. | \
TO RENT, h
>m I A good three story House, !
TWO rooms on eac floor, with a convenient I a
I Kitchen—in Front, near-South-ftreet.——Enquire I ]
los the Printer. march I—3aw1 —3aw ?w | 1
PROPOSAL, :
For Publijb'tng by Subscription,
an I 1
i_ EN I R Y
INTO THE
ORTGII OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
I 'T'Hfi l.ttters to Dr. Currie, which 1 pu.ililhed I
. q J X lad autumn, led me to an investigation of I
' the origin and phenomena of peftilantial difieafes I
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes. [
In the prof'cutiot> of the fubjedl, new fads ano [
principles continually opened to my view, and si- I
nally determined me to trice back the hiilory of 1
such diseases as far as the records of hiflory ex- I
tend. For this putpofe. I have examined the pub- I
iefs lie libraries in New-York. Ncw-Haveu, Cam- I
ma- bridge and Boflon, with a viaw to obtain all the I
material fails which can illullrate the fubjo&.and I
I have nearly col!e<Sed all the materials for the I
propof;d work. -1
The fads eellc&ed will enable me to demon-1
Urate that many of the common ideas refpe&ing I
_£ peflilential epidemics, are unfounded or extreme- I
jj 'ly incorred ; and this in consequence of medical I
mof writers cenfidering an epidemic disease as a detach- I
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun- I
try; rather than as conneded with other epidt- J
■ t ' iat mics cr other phenomena of nature in variots j
tore, p art s of the world. The fads I hare collcde i
irhera | ea d to certain dedudions which are furprifiugto
a ' myl'elf, and whic-h will probably be new to mai.y I
B ". others. Much light will be thrown on this dark I
;rm ' and perplexing fubjed, as well as on natural phi- 1
lofophy.
The proposed work will make a full sized oda- I
II vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, cap - I
, not be alforded at lels than two dollars, bsur d.l
JOth with the usual allowance to baok-feller«. stlal
ry, at compilation will cost not only great labor,but con- I
>tt.ry. fiderable expei ce, no more copies »ill bi printed I
eet— than to supply fuhfr- : > -• The hook will be rea- I
: Tm dy for fubferibers early in t coming summer, and I
ifter- the holders of propoi.i. swill be good enough to I
hing- return them to No. 40, Pine-ftrect, by the firftof I
>rma- May.
,otte- Soßsoir rioNS received by th< book-fellers in I
if the New York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, Now London, Providence, Boflon, Bal
gand timore a: d Charleflo*.
rities, NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
ile of marc'i IS.- I
n" 5 ' ~J'jl received, and for Sale at theßonkjlore of
■' WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. 5« South Second-fireet.
A COMPLETE HISVOKY OF
CONNECTICUT,
llVd CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
From the emigration ot it- lirft planters fromEn
glar'd in 1630, to 1713.
By BC.KJAMIS TRUMBULL, d. d:
VOl. UM E I.
Embcllilhed with a ccrred Map of the State, and
Portraits of some of the firft fcttlars, from origi
nal paintings.
£ tr.au h ij. leojw
interpreter of Foreign Languages. j
JOSEPH E. G. M. OELA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. no,
BEING duly commiflioned and sworn in the a- (}J
bove capacity, offers to trar.ftate the ren» ,
En?«h, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua- A
cres :he flatters himfelf tfcat his former profeffion, „
an advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to tranflne any Court proceed- fi|
ings or other Jud ciary instruments. tc
N- B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma- p
ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it confiils now of about Ijoo volutrur,
the best adapted to answer the purpofc ot thole
who wi(h both to improve in the Language, ana
obtain ufeful inftru&ion and pleasure. '
march 30. _j_awlm ■ I
A Houi'e and Lot in Burlington.
FOR' tt"ALE,
ALAWSE com modiolus two story brick House,
and iarge well improved Gaiden ; with a Ab'
lar»e Clover Lot, a liable, a Carriage House, and (
Spring House. &c. in the City of BurliDgton, An
New-Jcrfey. c
This property is allowed to br the molt healthy An
and beautiful ol any in Burlington, having a front An
of 360 feet upon the river, and extending aoB feet ,
back ; bounded on one fide|by Broad-dreet, and on ,
the back by a wide alley. t
The houf: is in form of a square, fronting 54 ,
1 feet upon Broad-street. and 58 upon the river.- (
with a pump of water at the backdoor, besides
two fir.e spring. rising out of the beautiful bank {
between the garden and the river. .An
Fur particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth-
GEO. WALKER. '-I
IVho has also For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
l | march., 1. 1 Ar
JUST RECEIVED 7
' And for l'ale by W.Young, corner of Second A]
: i and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey n8 High-street
' T. Dobfon, 4T South Second-flreet and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5 Bthn of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
I A Local Point, historic and deforiptive J
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allufin|} to the furroondi/ig ProfpeS— Invocation
.' I to the Riv;-r and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
0 ' Mufe—Fiitioiirfiifcarded-Dedication to Wafli
. I ington—The the Retreat of the
I Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
I —The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
;* ren—Perfonif.cation of Fcrtune and Fame— A
~ Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
, r I chief Command—Formation of th« Columbian
Camp at Cambri ge—Natural, moral or poli
~ I tical Hiflory of the fcverrl States—Their coni
n I mauding Officer*—"-Siege ef Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation lor the fafe Retreat of the
British Array—lrs Departure —Appointment of
0 Congrcfs—Declaration of Independence —Cha-
I raiter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progrefc of Free- A
• I dom througheut the World. ft
march 3c. §
,k I JUST PUBLISHED, " A
le AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
?' (Price 15 Cents J
Reflexions on Monroe's View
~ OT THE CONDUCT OF THE SXECOTirt, *
As published in the
al GAZETTfi of Mie UNITED STATES,
he Under the signature of ,
t • SCIPIO,
I • J
I In which the Commercial Warfare of France 11 traced
to the French Faftion in thi- Country, at iti Source, 1
I and the Motrvci oj uppojitwn, izrc.
_ I march 30.
Ten Dollars Reward.
A BSCONDED from the fubferiber, an indent
or I e( ) ramed William Aston, about 19
I years of ags, 5 feet 6or 7 inches high, stout made, _
I thick (hort hair, fptaks remarkably faft. Had on J
t. I when he went away, a (hort corduroy Jacket and
I trowfers, and roundhat. All perfonsare caution-
I ed not to credit him on my account, as I am deter-
I mined §ot to pay any debt of his contrailing— J
em I and all persons are desired not to harbor or em-
ire I ploy him, as they will be p'o'fecuted to the utmost
■ I rigor of the' law. Mafteri of vessels an l others
I are desired not to take him avVay at their peril
I Any person apprehending the said runaway, and
I lodging him in Jail, so that his master may get
I hini again, (Ball rec«iv« the above reward, and all
I reafonaUle charges, by appiyin s to
JOHN HARPER,
167 Arch, or3t SouthThird-ftreet.
i«d I mar<h 30. 3t
iso Frelh i eas.
!nd [ J u st Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
[ si. I Captain Cooper, from Canton,
of I -And For Sale, by
ex- SAMUEL HOWELL,
üb-1 At Ms Conipting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
in»- I '' and by
'he SAMT. E. HOWELL,
I At hi» Compting Houi'e, Crooked billet wharf,
1 e J Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
on-1 Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
:ing I also,
mi-I China Ware, a(l#rted ; black and coloured Lute
lical I firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
»ch- I and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
un. I whale-bone flicks.
i'.lt - J Tbey have also For Sale,
iout I Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
died I French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
gto I march 8. §
lai.y I
, I New-York, January n, 1798
phi. PROPOSALS
a By Arondt Van Hook,
Propri-tnr of the Reading Uooin ;
u . d ~ I For Publishing by Subscription,
i tfc« An Appeal to Impartial Pollerity,
co "" By Madame Roland ;
nted I \Vif eo f (he Minlfter of the Interior in France.
re ': CONDITIONS.
I Thefejfcarce and very valuable Historical Me
•ilof I ,polrs > (which ran throngh two London edi-
I t onsin a few months,) will be comprised in »
s in I vo '' s - of 400 pages each.
lV£ll I They will be printed on fine paper and a »i«w
Bal- I '>'P e ' delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly Wound
I and !«tleied,at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol-
I ume —one third of tKe Subi'cription money tobe
I paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re-
I maitider when the work iscompleat.
re °J I To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
I acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
I be made
£5" Subscriptions are taken at the Readiug-
I Room, No. 149, Water street the Printing-
I Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
a En- 1 fookflores in New-York— Also, by William
I \ oung, corner rf Second and Chefnnt flreet, nd
I the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
I Philadelphia,
and I As fnon a» a fufficient number of Subscribers
arigi-I are obtained, the work will he put to pre!*, ard
1 complested with the utmost dispatch.
I w I Feb. 20. eodam
treasury department,
IK£j MARCH 1, 179®*
' PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r t S* nf raffed on the sixth day of July one thousand seven
IN pursuance of the Aa of F. duti „ on damped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
nir.ety-feven, entitled A ,:'*v one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
A a passed on the fciteenth day ol; Jecffi mcßCemf „ t of the duties imposed by the Acl enti.
.. An Ad ,o poOpone for a Parchment and P.per", that from and after the
firft
ted throughout the United Staus.
p everv flcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment] or sheet or piece of Paper, »pon which (hall be
JZZZ&A - either of the instrument. or writ, „ g „o.low,ng-t 0 wit:
a 2
7n»CounfeUof, Solicitor, Attorney .Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
" PriS? that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office!, (hall lb far is relates to the payment of the
aiWsjiid. be a fufficient admilfim m all the Courts of ihe United
States foreach and every of the said "dices.
Abv Grant of Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
/except so. lands granted tor military fcrvices) - - 4
Anv exemplification er certified copy ot any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for land, granted for mi.itarv services) - - - a
Any Charter-Party, Bott. mry, or Respondent.a Bond, - - X
Anv Receipt or discharge foror on accountof any Legacy left by any Will or 0-
ther testamentary inftrt«nent,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al ellate di
vided by force ot any statute of diftr'fbuti.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereoffhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and lhall not exceed the value of One Hun-
Whet? fhe'anrount thereof fcall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - , r "
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of x
Anv Policy of Insurance or increment in flature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
goods insured from one rfiftria to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port o*- place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - »j
When the l. m insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Apv Fxemplification, of what nature soever, that ihall pass the seal ot any
Court Xr than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifli for the ufeofthe United States or Tome particular state, - 50
Anv riond, bill single or peaal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promissory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, hill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wi h the United States or any state, or tor their
use refpeflively, - - * " c
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundrerl dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred-do ars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dol.ars, 50
And it above one thousand doll.irs, - - - - - 75
Prtvided, that if any bonds or notes Ihall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjea to only two fifth parts of the duty
afarefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundredl dol ai s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand dollars, " ' " " n , 3°
Any Notes iffuedbv thehanks now eftabliftrcd, or that may herealter be^" ab '
lifted within the' United Slates, other thai the notes nf luch of the laid Banks
as ftatl agree to an annual composition, o! one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeflively, according to
the following scale. - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for eadi dollar, -
On all notes above fifty dollar*, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, S o
C n all nines above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - * - - - I
1 On all notes above five hundred dollars, - a
■ Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - • - '
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - -
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars. - - - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 4
' For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tobe exported,
If from one diftriiSt to another diftrifl of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - * * 1 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal prorefs by any officer,) so_ -
'< Any Certificate "f a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in (he Bank of
' the United Scaus, or ofany siaic oi uttief tssr~4i, - "*v ' '
II above twenty d.illars and i:ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10 t
If above one hundred dollars, - - *5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten centi for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will becollefled and received by the Supcrvifors, Tnfpeftors aud other Officers
' of Ipfpe&ion, in the several Diftriffs Surveys and Oivifions of the United states, ami by such other
persons as shall from t« time be specially appointed and employed by the iiupervifors of Diftrids for
1 that purpose.
d 111.
The Supervifsrs of the several Diftriils will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may he practicable, mark orftaipp, without fee 0 reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vdlum, Parch
ment or Paper, with ;ny of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
" damped velum, parchment and paper I..a' at the option of the Citizens of the United States, he ob
tained at the rates prefcribcd by law, I y appliiation to any fupervilcr, Infpsilor, Officer of liifpeilion,
or other poi£oa appoiivted for the diftritution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrids
j GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
* the day and year fbo*vcmenti»ned.
I, OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March JO. Secretary of the Treasury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Flretwqob, of
Liverpool, late qf Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and thole who art indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, } ~ . ,
No. » s , So. Third-street. \ Adm,n, J lr r
fanuary 4'. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-flores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and OaunpD,
' in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting *r Bilious
Fevers.
To 'which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefling fa&s and reflexions relative to
the Syaocbuj Iflenidei, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much dilYrefi and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of 'h« United S'ates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficnns,
and Member of the American Philoiojhical So
ci«ty. Feb. I—*3«n§1 —*3«n§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fi£,h street ; there are at
present two small two story br'.ek houles, and a
nuinferr of fmali/tenements thereon. .
Atfo, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient {lores, wharf, &c. fiiuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an'l Saflafias
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area vefy defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fa<flor, or others
who may occafion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo'd on very reasonable
terms for cadi. For further information apply
to the printer.
July mfcwtf
Saliffemry Estate.
r"HE Subscriber, proposing to contrast his bufi»
ness, offer® this Estate (or sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Sorting Machine, and a very good grift
Mil), with two pair of stones; alio a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conncfl
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace#
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou* two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing inc befi Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannf*tl*red there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world; for not one of fi*tv-nire guns
lately made, although were bored
into 32 pounders, have failtd on proving. The situ
ation ;s very eligible, particularly far this branch of
manufafture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land «
ings on the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ilTuin;
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purposes. The purcbafer can beaccommodat
ed with all the Hock and utenlils, and have polTeffinn
oner before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blall im
mediately thereafter, for every pait vyill be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthony, i n Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Eiq.one of the Reprefentat-ivcs
in Co.igrefs for this State ; Ms-, D*vid Waterman, on
theprenules, or to the proprietor i n New. York
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Peg - " ___ 3 ' wtf
A OTIC E.
A Manufactory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has beet,
been lately at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
onthe haft Bank of Hudson's River, fta e of NewJ
York, where any art,clr of various for,, and lhape.
may be executed, as well as ear,hern ft,-vr, upon a
new confliuftioß, that fav„ th-ee fourth „f the fed
commonly used , n call iron Jnv„ „ T open chvrnni es;
S;^o ,verywhoief '' mc and
J. MOUCHET
Wanted a fldllfu] hard to attend to the bakin,'and
glazing oar. of the fa,d ware. Generous appoint,
mews will be given. Apply asab ve, o r , 0
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
I r , No. 71 Souib Street.
Fgb " '9- , eod„w
Wanted, to Hire,
A I ; ar?l ' and conviin tent HOUSE, in or near
m? f cnt . reof ci ty—for which a generous
rent will be ? :ven; to be taken for a rear, or on
more for a longer serm. Inquire of thi Printer.
° a - r 7- . Mt f