States,^Philadelphia
By John- WArd Fenno, N°- i 19 Chefnut Street.
Dumber >9°7-]
tf-The Subscribers to this Ga- J-*
zette at Germantown, to whom, £
(owing to recent difa,ftrous events) wnt Ut
their papers may not be Particularly gg
direfted, will be furmlhed with them nia> M
Germantown, whither an extr
number, for that purpose, will con
stantly be sent. JU<
.p- Remote Snbfcriber; for'tWs Ga-
fette art tequeftcd to forward ft. post,
the arrearages due from them refpefhv*. »,<
ly. Poftiiiafters who may have reccn-
ed Tubfcriptions are eatoeftly desired to 7,
remit the fame. At thisinterefhng and £
aiftrofllng crifis > attention to this notice 31 ,
Will peculiarly oblige the Editor. 33,
S:
Philadelphia, September 36. 3,
rx-iHf Mai! for New-t>frle, CastweU bridge,
1 D'-i'k erctk, . .Rrederica, Milf^rd,
frenree <own and DarJbol**fth, Delaware ;
Tr<J'i and Snowhill, Horn Town,
Accomack ronrt-boufc*. Sn:l Northampton court
house, Virginia! ; V* l bt c'ofed at this office ev
*ry Monday, Wednefnayln.lFriday at half pall
'ei>iht o'clock, A.. M. until lit day of April, f
ROBERT PATTON.
September 16 <llat
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Septtmber 21, ' 79^-
. The public is hereby informed, that ~
an Office o! 1) pffic and Difcoant will be opened e^ UJ
on Monday next, at the house lately occupied by jbly
SaMO.r. near the Market Hopfe m ffa ,
■Oci in-n.pTw-n— th* Iwfinefs of this Inihtu p o fi(
tion w'.ll he tranfailed during the continuance o. f
the malignant fevernow prevailing in Philadelphia.
HENItY KUHL, Afliflant Cajhitr. thc
se.-»temV-r 21 d dete
Bank of Pennsylvania.
T»'.E bank of Penqfylvania is removed to Ger- tllli
nan town,' —where the Vufisefs will be tranfa&ed equ.
to-morrow, in the Union School House. con:
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier. tern
septemher 4 ■■ ■ $ ™ ac
Wanted to pur chafe. 1 ™
APPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which j
caOi will be gi.en at the rate of thirtv fe- ;l]
ven cents per Guilder* Apply to the Cafhitr o
pric
the Bank of the United States. f 0 t
September 27, H. "?qB. crc(
For Sale. kin (
•""fHE Sobscriseß. intending to decline the t j, e
X DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the the
whole Stock of thir
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, Bcl. pu t
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fafficl- any
cDtly known for the extensive business Cone in the (ha!
wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to at I
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second streets. The whole, or any part of the ; n t
Stock, will bs fold, as will heft suit the purchaser. prfl
The terms may be "the
Wlo has For Sale, n ; a
Weil calculated tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order.
The Sali.y, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forthe lumber business
cry All persons indebted to the late firm i*i
GtlMvmlt IS" Baldwin, IV- B. GolMtviait, Oolu
ibuait t£f Moon, or the fubfcri'ier, are earnestly
rcquefted t« make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
aagnst 3 §
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE Sufefci iber, encouraged by the advice
of his friends, oß'ers his service to the pub
lic as a Ship and Infuranre Broker. H« pro
poseS to buy and fell vessels andjevery thing re
lating thereto —affifl mailers of vessels and others
m entering and clearing at the Cullom House,
procuring and .Shipping freight, fettling Inlur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necaffary Blanks anti Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch ot business he hopes to be uie
fi»l to tliofe who please to favor him with thavr
commands. SAMXJEL EMhRT.
Philadelphia, august 14th, 1798. ?
City CommifTioners' Office,
1 Aucust 30, 1798.
IN pcrf»ance of an ordinance of the Sele.3 and
Commoß Councils, palfed the zid day of May
*798,
Profofalsin writing will be received by the City
COmil.UTlOn.T5 for one month from th* firft of Sep
tenibcr next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year, taco runence the firlt day of januaay next,
the following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine llreet, o
Also on Saffafras, n
Mulberry, |J
And High streets. I,
Chefnutan : Wulnut streets, Drawbridge, witl
the Scale and Fi(h houles Spruce, Pins and Cedar
streets.
The Cellar under the City HalL
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill
■with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
aieceffary for the toll gates.)
A stated meeting of the City Commiflioners will
<ie held at the City Hall every l'uefday morning t
ten o'clo .k, during the present epidemic, eoim
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ; i
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, N0 '
155 Hiph-ftreet, lately occupied by Doc- c
*or Willar, with Coach bows. - and Stables '
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAEE, <
A r » 16S, Kigh-Jlrcct.
juiy si J :
j -j • 7 .j .. ;
- j"
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 27, 1798. (TOII/jim XIV.
j ——
i'ubiic Notice is hereby Given,
- > V* ..I . /I certa
THAT Projiofals tearedcovers, will be
received on the bchalt ot thi United States
until the twentieth day of Oiftober next, by.Jo- At w
oatJackfort, Eiq. at Dost n, Massachusetts, -V"
Tench Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pemifylva
nia, *u<J John Swana. Efq at Baltimore. Ma
ryland, for fuppiying the following articles of
cloathmn, for the artav of the United State*, »V
viz. whtre
FOR INFANTRY.
Hats, of thi
504 Serjeant Coats mill t
504 ditto velia cases,
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infallil
' 1,008 ditto do. lioen diet* inverti
1,016 ditto shirts tmjjm
264 Muticisns coats frr/tm
7,680 Privates coatts tick a*,
' 7,044 ditto veils ' ""i't'
[ ij,BBB ditto woollen overal »
15,888 linen ditto 01
: 3'.776 ditto shirts a
33, 79 a pairs of Socks abovs
33.7 a* pairs of ftioes f ; j
8,448 ltocksof bljck leatner vfih,
8,448 ftockcafps 271
8,448 blanket.. tiem
FOR CAVALRY. ««eii
' 6 Musicians coats na '
I . o JV». 1
lb Serjeant coats , ,
•t' ditto veils p y 4
104 ditto shirts Mlar
1, 3J4 ditto vests ingfi
1416 ditto shirts perfo
760 pair of Leather breeches IV ;U ]
760 pair of llockings hand
760 pair of boots l«ng
380 Stocks of black leather port«
g 380 Stock clasp. the ii
° 380 Blankets. nicat
IA. Every article lhaiy«.inade "f' materials, N
ed equally, good, and in, form, or filhioß, conform- deri
by ably to patterns for the fame, sealed with the day.
,n seal of the War-Otfice, and wiich will be de- W
u posited with the several gentlenvn, empowered this 1
?' to receive the piopofils, as abov mentioned. Mr.
ia ' ad. Sworn lnfpeiftots shall btappointed on by c<
the part of the United States, to examine and
: determiee «po« the several artiles aforefaid, 1
when the fame (hall be ready for irlivery, with \ e
t , r . full power to rejecf 1 . every article, \*iick (hail not
ted equal, in goodness of matorials, cto be made
conformably to, the falhion of thelandard pat
tern for the fame ; and no allownce (hall be
made, for any article which shall b< reje&ed by
them, for the causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals muftfpecify thi number of
. articles, and their kinds, which tie party is
le " willing to furnilh, together with, the lowest .
prices for immediate payment in money, a«d al
io the prices, on the lougeft term, or term* of N
credit. won
One third of each, and every of the several tion
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on »'
'be the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firlt day of March next; ind the ,
ti* public will not be considered as bound to receive
aci- any of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, i< hich
the (hall not be ready for infpedliorv, and delivery,
t0 at the periods agreed upon. f
and 4t h. The cloathing aforefjid will be received
'be in the fe*era! dates, at the places, and 'in the
r • proportions following, viz. One thirdpart of Sir
■—-r tire whole at Springfield, Mafiachuletts, one
other third at Philadelphia, state of Penivfylva- hot
nia, or at LatnbertOn, (late of New-Jersey, and fpi'
on» third at Baltimore, Maryland. c '°
fek sth. No contract will be made, for a less tp
number of each of the aforefaid articles of ins
cloathing, than is requisite for a company, viz_ nti
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats sot
4 ditto veils • ou
Z ' n 16 ditto (hirts I I
t Mulician Coat Jl
Ills 58 Privata coats ha
Fiefs 59 ditto velts in!
II »i 136 ditto (hirw wl
JoL- 63 flocks it
=ftly 63 flock clasps th
116 pair of leather breeches
*• 126 pair of flockings
5 ia6 pair of boots
63 blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY.
vire 70 Hats P'
,ut> " 4 Serjeant coats
P ro " 4 ditto vests
■ re " 8 ditto woollen overalls
8 ditto linen ditto
u^e > 16 ditto (hirts p
'' ur " % Musicians coats
lave 64 Private coats
66 ditto veils
am ' 13a ditto woolen overalls
tters 132 ditto linen ditto.
encc 264 ditto Shirts °
"'V 28a pair of Socks ' c
»8o pair of Shoes,
x 70 Stocks,
y. 70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets.
l 8 JAMES M'HENRY, «
ind Secretary of W»r.
Vlay War Department, i
xifl Sept. 1798. J ,
City
Se P Weft-Indian from Madeira. 1
• one
Cj- Thofc Gentlemen who have Wines '
on board the Weft-Indian are informed (he is f
now discharging at South-flreet Wharf, are so- v
licited to halten down their permits, the- Veflel
being immediately wanted, Peter blight.
""edar wants to Purchase, ,
100 Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef ;
100 ditto Pork . ]
rlkill 7 or 800 ditto fine Flour 1
much 4or 5000 bulhels Indian Cora. I
erec- L A N D I tf G
or bc From the West-Indian,
A. choice parcel of Phelp*s old particular
n J ri r Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
august
0- Wanted—Actuation in aPub
: ; lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
: N® by a peifou regularly brought up to the Mer
j) or . cantHe and Insurance business in London, he has
j lately been a voyage fiom hence to the Weil-In
dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended,
' et- —Please to enquire at the Printer's
5 august 1j
HAPPT < Dft/teVER T.
A certain Cure for th.it alarming anti Jrvxtjul Difmrdcr
The Yellow Fever, A i
At -well tf any at Iter (haircut pu'rid fever, fever and
ariu, and other invifwrate and complinledSfeafe$ t by v
»/, of ,l.c ' anleve
TTrFTI P , UNIQUE
TTTELL patented,o WngUrA,Frr.nce, hu(
»l Pound, arf« all che capital citm in F.urope,
where thc tnoll curt' have becu tffcil- ...
Ed »n persons incurable by all phytic iaji). already
In aTreatifrjiiir.ttil in ljOn-:oo, on the properties Watt . r^
of this powflcr, by T. Seymour, M. D lateCh«- .
mill to his Majesty, there are llated two hundred coai l|J
cases, where this moH valuable remedy has proved ■ u
infallible, in all kind of fevers, puurify, bloojy jinx, [
invent: r&evmatifmt, sciatica, apoplexy, patalyfie, yet' .... ■. j'
Itrtv jaundice, rmgwrm,tvouns w children and in grvtv* a
per/tnt, whites, cbrcnii ai bead and Jlomach aches, bepa-,
tick and nephretical or jlone cholic, ti- kings nil, fcarvy j, ca _ Q(
and the mojl inveterate and complicated venereal j c icnt
is likewise the best preparative for th« fnaall pox buildin
ar.d measles; ot the greareft utility for young as | Jrrre
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. The efficacy of this powder in Ivveral of the a
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and j- Qn
so it has been inthe yell*tu fever last year, by Mr. trccs
Mahy, who cured several by adminifleriiijjonly Btl( j c |.
two of the said powders, and loft not a single pa- 1
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and ma ; n j,
attelled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- [> ljc w
ginalmay be fceD at Andrew Hadftg's umlreUa stop, f or ; r „,
A'». I3J, corner of Chefnut and Fcurtbjireets, the 011- cm
ly place where these powders are to hu had, with
proper dire&ions for the use of them. —Pi ice two \ ltLyc j
dollars. dated
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thu remedy he- horses
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, aay f ar f.
person wilhing to be provided with those powders, ce [j cn i
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at - 8 (we
hand is rot very large, aud it is doubtful if for a
lung time, or if ever any other genuine will be im- (^
ported, thefecret remaining i:i the hands of f rom '
the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu- |, am
nicated to, or difcowred by nay othsr person. t j lf
>, NB In th« yellow and putrid fevers, this pow- "
'- der mud betaken tha lecond, or at l«a(lthe third r;ma j
e d *y- Mr
We the fubferibers, durirg the la'e (icknefs in
d this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Mr, fot his medical assistance, we do here- , {)
n by certify, chat by a certain powder, called the
J PouJre Unique, we were perfectly recovered from yj
1 the said fatal Scknefs, and from an experience of g
jj the happy tifefts of the a''Ove mo(l valuable medi-
5t cms, consider it our duty to make the fame known,
■ for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, XT"
Mylus O'Connor, W
» e Jeff. Turner, affi
'Y CUriften Rebecca Dow, mixe
Catherin Apple, thcir
' Ann Grover, mem
is William Bills,
ft . David Williams, carpenter, w j. Q
il- William T Donaldfon, mall-maker. re
of Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of JJjj
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc- j., fJ
al tion, No. 131, Chefnut flrset. wi jj
)0 august 8 »awtf ar£ ,
>u '
Ig ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
2 -D*. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
y, In the Cure of as
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas &
ed Netu-Tork, July 10, >79&-
he Te Dr. Chukch, rr
of Siri ' 1
me For upwards of Twelve Tearj t I have la f ma
bored under a severe Cough, (hortnefs of breath and
,nd spitting of matter from my lungs and often of furt!
dotted blood, till at length I was so reduced as aj
iefs tp be unable to walk across my roam, and ow- ~~~
of ihg to the vi< lence of my cough and the (hort- r O
nz ness of breatlj could get no reft day or night.—
Hearing of your excellent metlicipe,, the Cough j
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as 2
soon as I got it, from which I found iaftantane- ■
■ ous relief, and by continuing it for three days, ,
I bless God lam restored to perfeifl health. As j
J believe you to have been the inftrumcnt in the j
hands of Providence, of favingmy life, I must 1
intreat you to publish this far the benefit of any (
who may be in my situation, as I am confident j
it is one of the best medicines in the world for (
those complaints.
lam, Sir, yew grateful ser-vont' t
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor and sole ji
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpsnfary,
Walhington-ftreet, New-York, and at his of
fice, No 1, South Third-street, Philadelphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 118
William-street, and Stilwell & Deforeft, 161
Pearl-street, New-York. Ma icius, AlbaoJ,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, -Wil
son, Wilmington, &c. &c.
OBSERVE,
As 1 counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been industriously circulated through some
of the principal cities in the United States, per
sons are requested tn purchase them of such per
sons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, i-oughkeepfie —
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New
caftle—Heinitffi, Lancafter —Blauvelt, Brunf-
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
Patients letters (Post-paid) addrclTed to j
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
| august 20 2a*3w _
u Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to the afl of Cengrefs, passed
on the I2fh day of June 1798, entitled, p
' in^ s "an aiil refpecling Loan Office and final fettle -
18 ment certificates, Indents «f interest, and the
re Ji*" unfunded or registered debt credited in the
e " el books of the Treasury." )t
ift. That on the application of the creditors o
refpeilively, or their legalattornies at anytime
F after the last day of December in the prefeht
year, the princi -al furns of the unfunded or re- -
giftered debt of the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or commiflioners of
Loans will be reimbursed at the treasury of the
United States.
. 2d. That interest upon the unfunded or re
icular g ift cret j rfebta afrrefaid will cease from and as- t
ter the last day of December in the present year, t
,ot 3d. That the creditors rcfpeilively wilt be J
entitled on requisition to receive from the pro
?Ub- per officers of the treasury, certificates of fund- (
-areo ed three l" 1, cfnt ft° ck . e( l" 21,0 tl, e arrearages
Mer- of Interest due oa the debts aforefaid prior to
he has the firft day of January, one thonfand seven hun
-fl-In- dred ninety one.
By order nf the Board of Commijtor.ers
' ' of the Sinking Fund,
Edward Jones, see'ry.
FORSALE, 1
SALISBURY. amdto
ALAkGE Mkl well improved farm, contain
upwards of twenty-five hundrrd acres of le- J c
vel fertile land, remarkably wjU adapted to grass, o>i«n
an ] every kind ol* there »re now ocs hun
dred acres oi Timothy meadow on it> perhaps not
excelled, from which, ! havf cat this hciween
one hu»drtd and
hay; upwards of tbrtx hundred acrebtuor* of this ,£ mr - rea
Hnr 1 tr"j* h« .converted into meadow equal to that ta £ vw
ilrcady ir,ade, th« greater part of which may be r
water«sd at a fosall eipence. There are on this j
land, a comiuodiou? two story dwelling-lwufe,
completely with ten rooms an 4 a paCtjje,
eigfet of the rooms have fire places; a portico in
frcnt, fifty length, and eight wide; a large
paled garden, a well ol excellent water in the yir'd* oc
alio a bam fcyenty-two feet l»y twenty-'.x, '•vrJi SU
iheds at the U<fcs and ends, fufficient to hold sixty 'ji, rcea
heap of black cattl-, a well conttruCted stable, ful- Franl
ficient to hold twenty horses ; with every other
building that nlay be convenient or ufeful for a rp,
larj»e family; upwards ot thrca hundred apple tree*
(juTl beginning to bear) ot choien graited iruit, point of
with«a uumber of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- near th
son trees,' upwards ot two thouiand hearing peach | of the 1
trees. About one fourth of th« land isclcared, and ■ City,,!"!
under good fence ; ths pafiure lauds art* wtrll taken, ■ country
with red clover and other valuanle grals. '1 he re- 1 An
mainder is in woods and generally weil ti)\ibered. J grfaond
The whol&is well,watered, having fevi-ral coniUnt ] aethe
' springs ; an 4 two ttreams running through flifFcr-J ardetV
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a fmatl couu- 1 TH,
try grift mill, and a saw mill. The purchaier can made 1
' have immediate pojeftion, and may be accommo
dated with twenty field negroes, with
" horses, cattle, fticep, hogs, and every netef- ncxt f a
fary farming utensil. Salilbury is situated in ex
' ceticnt and remarkable healthy, o £ o
is twenty-fix miles by mcafurement from Alexan-
1 dria, about twenty nn)es(rom Potomack bridge at
the Lktie Falls, and' not more than twenty-five
from tht city of Wafhiuyton, and on the pott roxd jt]
irora Alexandria to Wifichefter, A small part of
the purchase money, will be retired in hand; oue, nc ftiy
" tw«, and three*years credit will be given for the or > r j
remainder. with t
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give cen [
any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the t j, ls cs
0 situation of this plae«. Forfurther particulars ap- By c
ply to the fubferiber on the prtmifes. Sittin
5 SAMUEL LOVE.
kl f Virginia, Fairfax county .
! September 24, law.
l; ADVERTISEMENT. p X
St»t..i
WHEREAS James Cuhming ts" Co. late ol inche
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have born
assigned ov«r all their effects, real, personal and to th'
miied, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of all refidt
their creditors, who shall fuhferibe the said aflign will
meßt within fix months from the date hereof. preht
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all persons jail i
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are the a
required to make immediate payment of their ref
poclive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office, Ni
c " No. 61, Dock street, in failure whereof adiont
will be instituted for ths recovery of such debts as
are not discharged accordingly. | )
John Travis, "J Rdt
John Waddington, ( Affi firs
James Taylor, C b " on
, Cornelius Cemegys J IBar1 Bar
august l 8 mwftlD '
TO BE SOLD, tal v
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY ur ,
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
•a small pox an>J measles, is ailive, hearty and strong,
th and fit for house work in town or country. For
of further information, enquire of the printer,
as august 4 *
n- For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- B
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, Tcr
S h 195 calks of nails assorted
as 20 bales of fail canvass, from No. Ito 8
v ~ '53 casks yellow ochre f .
y s > 1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
h* London particular ) Mtdeira wines Bu'<
India market ) A U
ult TenerifTedo. in hoglheads and pip ih t
"V old Port do. in hhds.
5?. 1 Empty Claret bottles am:
f°t 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
assorted for the Weft-India market t jj e
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage r jjj
Writing fiates, ink (lands and preifes ot|-
20 purchcoas Jamaica runi to
X bale seaming twine doi
Pole 160 bundles (heathing taper 1
"■y. Nicklin is* Griffith.
Of- jj tuth&f.tf
hUy V ,
Bengal Goods, W!
N y CONSISTING GF q(l
Vil- BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, th
Chintz CelTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzziaas Tookereys
c ; ne Eliabad Baftas ' Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Der . Coarse Sugars in bags, fit lor the European markets
" " also,
Carolina Indigo
[ ,or Coffee in hogfticads
J e f ew pipes of very old and very choice Madeira "
lew- * vv INF. h
un '" For Sale, en reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
d to J No. 12, Dock-ltreet. '1
w i"'y i 4 7'
NOTICE.
en » Bank of North America, "]
Augufl 28th, 1798.
t;^ » r-«-inosx Persons who hive N»tesoi Bills to pay
v' i at this Bank are informed,
■ e That regular Notices will he pat under a lealed
the cover directed to the payer and lodged
in the Poft-Office every Monday untH she return
litors 0 f t he ciliaens. ,
time RICHARD WELLS, Caf/.ttr.
efent aug . 29 d "
d r on " SOUTHWARK.
rvsof oSober 8, 1798.
f the X^ ÜBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
Jl GIVEN, That the Commissioners of «
d as- the DiftriA of Southwark have removed
year, their Hall to the usual place, commonly
ill be known by the name of James Litle's School.
1"°- House, in consequence ef the rapid decline
fund- o £ t j le Fever, especially in the
V r S to vicinity tliereof.
" J . Biorder of the Board of Commijftoner
Wm. LINNARD, President.
s Attest,
md, William Penrose, Cltrk,/r» tern,
ry. I Qclober 9 ft
This Da> is Published,
AND FOR. SAL E BY J, FE »V NO, I , Q,C HFS N U T-S ■» Rtl T
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
OS'xhe origin, progrefc and prefeat state o
Preach aperrllion, with a fltxtch of -the infamolie
attempt* to dupradc the Government of the United
Statu, and some refleilions on the late proceedings
in Cor.grek; written the Uft of April in the pre
fonryear, by a NicaTiierof the Hoefe Of Reprelec
tativs. < junen
To be Sold, at Sate,
On tb« Premises,
Oh TuejWay the 2sti day of QBober, 1798, at
half paji two o'clock, in the afternoon, . £
Several very elegant Situations for «i
SUMMER RETREATS,
Three an.l an half mites from the Court house near
Frankford road, being part of the fubferiber'a
eflatt. J
Thefc situations are considered in
pointofhealth, beauty and elegance, equal to a»y
near the city ; commanding a very ixttnfivc view y
of the Delai-arp, the Ihipbißg m.rhe harbour, the
CitT„Hjrrowgate,Fracklord,and fev'eral elegant
,! country fiat«. v
: I Any person desirous 6f viewing the*
. j giotinds.will please apply to HENRY HAINES
'■ 1 ob the preotif-*, or to the fu' fuibcr, at Mr. Rich
-1 arJet'scoff-i-houfe, Germantuwn.
The "term*, which will be easy, will bs
' mide known at tlie time of file.
" Should the weather prove bad on the a
-1 bnfe mentioned ditj", the fait will take place on the
next fair day,iitttefjme hour.
W. MACPHERSON.
' o&ober 9. dt~l.?0
t Perinfylva-nia HofpitaJ,
J 9 »"»■•*.
° "Vf" P'rfoc with an infetfious difeafc, tan be
-LN admitted into this house ; it it therefore e»r-
c > neftly recommended to thp citiiens, not to scuT
ie or > ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several person s having
,e been feet here improperly, is the reason of giving
' e this caution.
Sitting Managers, FRANCIS HIOGIMS, W-
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from the Guard House in New
Caltle, this morning, Stephen Howdin, a
private Marine, belonging to the Fripate United-
States. He is about 36 years of age, live fees ten
ol inches high, fair completion, light hsir, blue eyes,
re born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Pri?r
id to the sth of jHne, the date of his cnliumtnt, i«►
ill resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he!
n will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap-.
prehend the said deserter, and fc-ure liim in any 1
ns jail within the United States, ftiall be entitled t»
re the above reward.
e(- F. Capt. Marines.
:e, New Caftle.OtS: 8.
n ; TEN DOLLAR* REWARD. "
a ~ T*\KSERTBD from my Detachment at JBorden*
JL/ town this day, a Marine, by name Gtargt
Redman, a Native of lrelai.d about 15 years of ag«
6v< feet eight or nine inches high, dark comple
tion, black hair tied; black eyet wall mads and
quarreifonae, when is liquor is fond of singing—had
, on a blue fearaan's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches. ,
Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer-
tar to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
t ' lt Reward,
n f»': n . . . . 0 ? HENRY A. WILLIAMS.
For Prober 11, 1798 L t. Marines
PROCLAMATION.
1 T)Y virtue of a precept from John D. Coxe,
D Esquire, president of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks; rnd Hen*v Wtnkooi and Francis
Morrat, judges of the fame court —A court of
j, Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtown, in the said county of
Bucks, on Monday the sth day of Nevember r.ext.
All those who will prosecute again ft the prifonera
in the goal of said county, ate reqoiied to be then
atid there to prosecute against them as shall be juft—
and all the justices of the peace, coroners and con
il»hle», within the said county, sre required to be
then and there,in their proper peifons, with their
roils, records, inquisitions and examinations and
other their remembrances, to do those things which
to tbir oilices belong, ill that behalf to be
done, &c, DANIEL THOMAS,fheriff.
OA. 4,1798. 3taw
:• FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Subfcribcrs,
Deliverable at any of the ports on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their stores, a
quantity of Barlron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the pot will be attended to.
Levi Hollingswortb & Son.
augwft «8. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
'rkets
HAS Removed to thp Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-flreets, on the Commons,
ideira where he will receive and execute the orders of
his friends and wholefjtle customers, with usual
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
the pre Tent Epidemic, where it has not made it*
eet. appearance this fnafon, ftt>r dariag any of th»
trstf ye»«
aupuft a 5 V
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
)8. Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Laguira,
o pay CONSISTING Of
94? Fenegas of Cocoa
sealed 4003 lb. of Flora Indigo
odged alO Bales of Cotton
return 4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willings fcf Francis,
.it,-. No. Eleventh street.
tl tuly dtf '
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
EBY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
ier» of »f the newest and nieft approved pat.terns,entitle4
nove( j to the drawback, just received,
• ANI FOR SALE 8T
" onl f Alck. J. Miller & C».
,: ' ,oo '• No. 64, South Front street.
lechne ,g. %
in the FOR SALE, by "
fioner John Miller, Jun.
tnt. NO. 8, CHtSNOT 1I«1«T,
100 hogsheads RUM,
• Of high proof and sice Satoui
6t jaly xj ,REMOVAL,
THE office ef the S.-crerarv «f tMe Cortnsiffioti
ers for eari yiutf into efTeS the tweiity-lirft
article ot'the treaty el tri-.ndihip, limits and navi
gation. tietween4-Ii« Catholic Majesty and t re Vl
nitedStat sis America, i»,for the present, remav
ed from Wo 54. f»»th Second street, to a Urjfi
tSvo (lory briilc houf* on '.he right hand,
up the (iermai.town road, usually called Mallcrt'
Vsal>.
I'hofe concerned are informed that, ootwitb-
ftandiiigthe prevalence of the fever in l'hiiadt lpii'a,
daily attendaree ha» b»en, tnd wilt continue to be
given at the fai! office,until the return of the citi
zens ; .V tliut on .Ik fevrntcenth day of Nov-mher
nexr, the ten* 01 cighwen months will expire flnce
the day on wh : eh the comm i(soners airrml.Ud
after which pcrioJ no comnlaiotb or
can po/Ttuly be received by them
Letters andiuclofures poll-paid will beduly at
tended to ty.
PETER I.OHR i, Secretary,
0&oberl8, ft) . § lot
PEi'ER BLIGHT
HAS f.*i"Ved hi» Counting Houfi to hit House
in the N.irthrrn Liborties ne_r Nic< Town, (ter
mantown read. august ai.
7«J imported in fops William Penn y A
miable and front London,
A quantity <«f Cannon,fizea lb. T with bn'.U
Ca'ronarfes, iz lbs. J fuira' k.
Mofquets, Mcfquetoons.Cutlafles and"j &
Fufols, for Ihips ufc, |
R barreled Guns Fowling Pieces, l ?
and Horfemm's Hii'o>s, f vS""3
4"5c.c00 Funs, c'.iicf.y so-- mulkets, in J
J
Rc« Licjht Dragoon Sabres, WitTlrcw Scab
rar«N,i:i calcsnf 50 ach.
Light CavJrv Swrf 1-; is C -fe*
fibres. Swords and Cutiafl*•*, with plated mountiag
Ironmongery ard Cutlery in calk", a general al
fortmciit—For Sale by
Thomas J no. Ketlund,
Pbllad. 0^o L cr 25.
' A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFERj of FbifofclpKii, who has
for a few years pad bec'o in the fnvhern States,
has had the eflfror.te; yto draw fevtral f;i ! ls of Ex
chang -on i'irkerine, £fq. Secretary of
9fate, and myfelf.and by thrftmeaiii. h.nsdefraudfd
a number of ptrfons «f their money, deceiving
them by an exhii-irio ofl t crsaii/f pap r»v.|fb the
names affixed of diver-* public chara&ets repu -
table merchants highly of laid
Su:' ff;r ; to one of tb«fe papers! ftnd my name
sO- f J, !:ut 1 do not k «ow the man ; thtfe art
vi'i*jj;oUß f©rt?'-rrt>! To prevent further iaipofition,-
f hn ve to requclt rintTs of Newfpjpers in the
United States to ih.s for the benefit of their
fdlow-citizcns. SAMUEL MERKDITH,
Treasurer t>f th: United States
Trcitont Nexu "Jcrf yy")
fchbtt 14, '79b. J
CUSTOM HOUSE, -
C.hejier, 2.] d Qft.
, NOTICE
To the MERCHANTS nf Philadelphia.
T!ie owner,* and eonfijtuee# of g,ood» by the
Pmn, Pnlladelphia, Jane, Kingston,
Amiabie and oiht r velTtN litely ■ I'i'ivtd, arc re
([tiriitd to torai dto this Office as fuou as pof
lible, their entriei and invoices, in
or.Ur :hj t perrrdts i'or landing may fee prepared,
and hand them, f.) soon as the return
ing health of the City will admit the veflels to
go 11,:. A due attention re this notice may be o!
, convenience to the merchants, who probablj
wiil be deliious to receive their go'ids very ex
peditioufl)'. GEO;- LA TIMEK,
let Colleilor.
THE Owners of Goods on board
th • snip Pinn. are inform d thai the
Coilecior of Uie Cttllonw will receive such invoices
and entries as may be forwarded to htm, and will
make the neceflarj culcu'atior.s and prepare the
liond; fj tl'a; permits may be granted lminediattly
on the arrival of tbe (hip at Philadelphia.
OSober 13. § Tw
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
JJraaus twice a iverk, every i\foidctf Tuejday
1 "'ICKEI'S I'or Sale, Seven Oollars each, a'
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Dr.skers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where check hooks ire kept for eximination und
re;ji(lering in this City of Wafhingtdh No. 1
and Paterfon Lottei ies and information where
' Tirketsmay be had in moll of the Lotteries au
thoril'ed by law in any of the States of the 1
Union. 1
St.mi or the Whsew j
Onepriieof 10,000 dollars 10,000 (
Five 4,oo« 40,000
Tws iioco 4,000
Nine i,oco 9,000 1
Nineteen SCO 9>joj <
fur aoo 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hundred 1
Mid of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick- |
e'.s will loon rife, particularly oil account of the (
live 4, :oo dollar pi izes that remain in the wheel
tiutil the laftday'of drawing.
£X Note, the business of a Broker duly at 1
tended to in all its branches at the above office 1
may 24 ; W&ntf 1
Bank of Pcnnfylvania,
September jd, 1798. '
WHEREAS the Houte at present occupied
by the Bank of Pennl'ylvania was enter- I
■? Ed nn the night of the firft inltant, by some vil I
' la.ns, whti robhed the institution of sundry |
Bunk Notes, amongfl which were.the follow- (
in j pod notes of the Bank of New-York, viz.
No 1031, dated ijJ of AuguO, 1798, Dolls (
iffiied in favor of Seabring & i
Van Wyck, (or 396 aa I
N"> JC«J, dated i<thof A'iguft, 179®»
i!Tued in favor of Montgom- <
ery and Newbold for 1250 ,
No .006, 27th do. do. do. 2000 |
locj, do. do. do. do. aooo (
<ocß, <l f '. do. do. do. 2000
IOC9, do. do. do. do. aooo
1010, aßth do. do. do. 2000
lot i, do. do. do. do. 2000
joia, 30th do. do. do. 1500
,013, do. do. do riOv icoo
Also luridry port notes of the Bank of Penn
fylvania, dated 23d July 1797. iffiaed in favor
of G(K>rge Hughes, for one-thouiand dollars
each, and fu'dry post notes of laid Bank, da
ted 15th of July, 1797, Wired in favor of Geo.
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each jnd in
dor led by him. The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
ward" ol TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
hereby offered for h- overy and ronvicftion
of the villains wh trated or are concern
m\ in the said robbe. .. addition to the n ward
•si: rid by the Governor of flie Commonwealth
in hia PtKclamation of this day.
jtr order of the Board,
TONATHAN SVHTH, cafhfer.
—Ty pie {lealth Urtjce is kept open night ard
day. at tke City Kail, vhere every neceflary
roa v'enieuce h procured for removing the sick
~i (t burying the dead.
,ua 1 fc WILLIAM ALLEN.
Health Ojice, September 29.
PftiMi'iNG Work,
Of Every Kind >
EXECU'Iii) AT XHE S Hug TEST
NOTICE,
At the OfFiC* of the Gazette of the
UNITtDiiTATFS,
And forwarded agreeably to direc
tion, any where in the vicinity of
the city.
_Od.i.!. _ rftf.
cs* The Office of the Mayor of
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
prefaut at the State House is the Court
room. 03. 18.
COLLKCiOx's OKtIC7,
PHILADELPHIA, AdgUit JO, 1793
THE hjifinefi. of tl)e Cuitom Hmvl'u wililrom
tain day Mr tranfa&ed at Citefter, durirg the con
tinuance 61 rl*c fever which n«w prevails in this
city ; and in carfe'ftt.nce rhereof, the m rchants
are hertby notified, That pavnent of ail bonds for
duties to :h« United States, payable at tfcisofiicr ,
may he made either at the t'u!tom House in Chet
ter, or aß<he Bwk of. the Onited State.
Coileflor's Office, J
Philadelphia. \ue. ."o. j
I lie Subscribers have remov
ed for the prfi'ent from Penn-ftreet t > Eleventh
llrcet, between Filbert and High-streets. •
Willings & Francis.
asfaft 9 iw
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of rrinarkablv Gnr M ADEIR A WIVE
fit for immediate off, and ai a reduced prke— Fui
sale by f J.aMES YARD
jiil.y af>. ..
TENTS."
V
The Committee who sup t/intend the Tehtt on
ike Banks of Schuylkill-,
BEoleave to acquaint thriramiable female
donors, that their prompt industry and unpa
ralelied liberalityhave been so abundantly be
llowed, as toenable thetritoretjueftno further
marks of their beneVoleftce in the article of
Infant and Small Childrens Cioathing : any
more Donations will be thankfully received,
so as to profile fur tlic age* of from four to
twelve years.
They cannot find language energetic
enough to thank them; but when they
are infoimed that they have put it in the
power of the Committee to clothe the
-aked, save the Ihivering child from perish
ing, and to fend the infant tuarm, and the
mother happy away, their own benevolent
and feeling hearts will afford them the best
of gratifications.
By order of the committee,
YETKR YiIERCKEN, Ctoirma.
Tento, 09. 24,1798.
Reliefs of the Poor.
THE undermentioned persons are ap
pointed by concurrent refoljtions of the
boards of managers of the Marine and City
Hospitals and guardians of the poor for thf
purpose of relieving such of their fellow ci
tizens whose situations render it improper
for them to remove to the encampments.
John Kehr, Peter Barker, i
Peter Mirrckcn, John Hulchinfen,
.'.lexandcr Sleet, William Steven/on,
Thomas Allibor.e, John James,
Ed-ward Gat rigues, Thomas Savery,
Stephen. Max/leld, Rhea Xing,
Nathan A Smith, Paschal Holli'gfiuorth
Daniel Doughty, John Teas,
By order the board of Managers of
the Marine and City Htfpitai,
Wm. JONES, President.
Attcjl,
Timothy Paxfon, Clerk.
By order of the board of Guardians of
thepo r.
PETER MIERCKEN, President.
THE committee appointed by the above
resolution fsf the relief of such persons,
whose situations render it impt a&tcable to
remove their families t*> the teuts, being rea
dy to enter upon the important duties of
their appointment ; inform the public that
they will meet on the 2d, 4th and 6th days
of each week, from 3 to 6 o'clock, at the
Senate Chamber in rhe State house, whei c
the indigent «f the abojft class will be re
lieved, upon producing certificates from one
or more rcfpe&able inhabitants who conti
nue to, lefie in the city or suburbs, that
their familiea are in such a situation as to
render i; improper to remove them to the
tents.
Tie committee being sensible that no en
deavours will be lacking in the committees
■who superintend the encampments, to make
the temporary residence of the poor as in
habitants who removed to them aa comforta
ble aa pofiible ; and believing that the re
moval of them from the city, may, under
Providence, be the means of (lopping the
prevailing disorder ; are defnous as much as
polfible to enc<?urage it ; and therefore mod
earnestly requtfft their fellow citizens to re
commend none to them, but such families,
who from fickriefs or other important con
fidera'ions, are improper objedls to receive
the publ c benevolence at the encampments.
Ed. GARRIGUES, Prcfident.
Peter Barker, Secretary.
Philadelphia, 9th mo. 19th, 98.
New Encampment.
THE Committee who sup rintend the
encampment at Mailer's Hace near the Mill
t'ond, on the Germantown road, about two
miles from the city, refpt&fully inform their
country friends that they Hand io aeed of an
immediate supply cf vegetables and straw,
for th« use of those diftre(T;d citizens who
are flying from the present calamity. The
committee flatter themselves that the fame
liberality will be found in tSe farmer, and o
thers, to supply this encampment, as has
been to that on the Commons near Schuyl
kill, both having the fame landable objtft
in view.
John Inskeep ~l
. Jon. Ro'efon L Committee.
Isaac IV. Merr is j
Camp, Mailer's Place, ' .
Sej.tenr.ber to, 'gg.
MARSHAL WUIIMSER,
Who lately died at Vienna, in the 73d
year jf his age, was born at in
1724, and entered at the agt of Kitten, mta j
the French feivice, as cadet of artillery, I
Vvhicl corjjs he soon abandoned for that of
the civalry; and, in #740, was appointed
" cornet in the regiment of light horse raised
by the celebrated Marshal Saxe. He focm
at traded notice as a bgld rider, and for his
„ peculiar manner in the conduil ox the light
cavalry. In the fsrne year he was advanced
to lhe rank of major in the regiment, in
conffquence of his brave conduct a' the tak
ing of Prague, and of the jodicious maiiner
in which hccoveied the retieat oft,he French
from Bohemia, under Marshal de Bi'llifles.
He was afterwaras c, ppof-d to the celebrated
Pandour coipmapdcr, Trtnck, who laid
1 wafle Ba» iliaWurmfer, however, loon
flopped h s progrets. In 1745, he ex
changed the French service fur the Aus
trian, and was made colonel of the fame
regiment of hufTai* which he commanded
afterwards as general. During the war of
1746 and 17J9, betwixt Auflfia and F:e
derick of Prussia,' lie had always commands
in the line of battle, alleys diitingnifhing
himfelf for his bravery and judicious ma
nauvres. He never had an opportunity to
signalize himfelf as a general, till the new
Pi ufiian war in i 779, when he was entrufled
with a fcparate command. The maftferly
manner in whicll he planned the attack of
the Prussian rear, in the retreat from Bo
hemia in that year, aftd the attempts Hvhich
he to intercept the whole train tf ar
tillery, procured him the highest applause
among military men, and even Frederick
himfelf acknowledged it to be a firft-ratc
piece of generalship. It was the" Prince
Royal of Prussia. now Frederick William
11, who defeated these fc'nemes of Wurm
fer. The Prince had his own regiment, the
sd regiment of footguards, Tunas's b.ittal
lion of grenadiers, and Appenburg's dra
goons, to cover a file of artillery and wag
gons, of more tha» twelve Englifb mile' in
length. H. : « cavalry was in the last divi
sion, mo-e than five miles backward, when
Wurmfer, by a forced march, (whereby ht
escaped the vigilance of the King himfelf,
who commanded the covering Column) ap
peared a: three o'clock in the afternoon with
'BOOO Hungarian cavalry, tn front and flank
of the Prufiians, and in pofleffion of the
heights and hollow grounds of Burkerfdorf.
where the train was to pass. The Prince
perceiving that every thing was loft if he
waited for Wurmfer's attack and his ewn
cavalry being too far behind to be brought
into the aftion, took the bold rcfolution to
charge the Auftrians. Accordingly, he
put himfelf at the head nf the foot guards,
and fapported by Tunas's grenadiers, and a '
heavy cannonade, attacked the Aultrian ca- !
valrjr with the biyonet, threw them into con
fufion, and gave time to the king to come up, 1
who soon arriving, took 9QO prisoners, al- '
though Wurmfer renewed the attack. He
had three horses shot under him in that affair. 1
Frederick, after the adiion, declared, " It '
was the firft campaign of my nephew ; I 1
always thought him a courageous man, but '
row ht has shewn himfelf a judicious gene
ral, and has acquired more glory from the
chara&er tif the great general who opposed
him." In 1788, Wurmfer commanded a
separate corps in the Bannat, where he dis
played his talents in opposing and flopping,
by fkilful marches aiid counter-marches, u
nited wi'h bold attacks of light cavalry,
the progress of the whole force of the Turk
lfh empire, headed by the grand V\z\r. In
1789, he covered the whole «f the Austrian
army in the unfortunate retreat f. om the
Bannat, and with his own and Barco's regi
ment, prevented more than 20,000 Turks
from seizing the military chefl and baggage. '
111 1790, he left that army when Laudo'nn I
took the command, with wh»m he was not '
an terms of friendihip. In 1793, he was
appointed to the command of the army in- 1
tended to ait against the French in Alsace. '
On the 13th October, he made a grand at- '
tack upon the lines of JLaurer, and farced
them, after little reliflance from the enemy,
who loft almost the whole of the artillery.
Wieffemburg fell soon after, and
the French, firft to Haguenau. and then to
Wanzenau. near Stralburgh. On the 27th,
he w s, in this place, attacked by the
French ; but he compelled them to retreat
with the loss of 3000 men. Ihe famous
Hort Louis, in Vaubaa, fell into his hand 9,
on the 14th November. Here his successes
terminated, and his genius was coippelled
to yield to the.enthnfiafm of the republicans,
under the command of Pichegru and Ho
che. On the Bth of December, hii army
was dfivtn from Haguenau, with immense
l<">fs ; on the 26th, from and
finally across the Rhine. The latt service in
which Marshal Wurmfer was employed, was
to attempt the relief of Mantua when besieg
ed by Buonaparte. This event it so recent
that it is uonccefl :ry to repeat the details in
t lis place. lhetacJics of Wurmfer prov-
of little avail against that phenomenon of
mihta y genius, Buo- aparte ; and, after se
veral days of hard fighting, he was compel
led to throw lumfelf and the wreck of his
army into Mantua. The brave defence
which he made in that city, renders its
siege one of the most important in modern
history—the victor Buonaparte paid a tri
bute to his military charader, such as few
men have received or defeved from an
enemy.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DiiSERIED lall night, a second time* from
the Marine Csoip, David a fife* - .
He had when he went away, a plain ; luc jacket anel
veft,light bln^overalls, a round hat. which had neen
bound with yellow, anj which he had ripped off
in hisfiiß desertion, and * pair of new shoe«. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sand;- hair
f 11.0'.y complexion and a nirrh in his upper lip.
His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few
ago. He may bo aifcovered by hi. fife in»
** he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Oiiober 17,
\
# SELECTIONS
I
FROM LONDON PAPERS,
Up {o the Qtb '}■ SrptimSrr, received by the
l_.lt arrivals at Norfolk.
LONDON.
The wuifon, barbarous excefles commit
tfd'by the French in those countries which
unhappily fallen under their dominion,
, e*cecd 'he power of description. In many
places on the Ri.ine, llic wretched inhabi
. ta ■ • 18, opprrffed beyond endurance, have in
t parokyrtws of res ivtrrerit and despair, at
tacked and murdered .ttie French M.'iers
| whenever they went abroad finely c> in f:nall
; parties Sy frecpe. t has tlieie afLifinatious
, become, that fl}e j»eipl<f.W»e generally" been
depi ieed <1 f their asms ; —iind at Dufleldorf,
where the Fi'Cncfi were received with ebthu
liafm a-d rapture, the garrifrn was some
weeks finfre called out at one in rite ■ g;
• each liouffe in the Civy wai filtered, aiid
plundtred of every miSlve weaporL.it con
tained, eVn to the knivf s and forks, in.ru
ments rf husbandry, and articles of the like
dtfeription. l'he wealthy have been bi till
ered under pretence ol rnyalifsn, or reduced
to indigence by the rapacity of their rulers ; [
and th» lower orders have been fti: k bv j
French fraternity into wrttchednefs, pro- !
found and hopeless.
In fa£t, the firmnefs and vigour of the
United States, in nil probability has prt vent
ed war with France.— Ihe French calcu
lated their party in America. Thus
was the fciiurge of war which they threat
ened. Without this they are impotent. By
entering into a war with America, they can
do no more mifchief than they have already
done by their cruisers. The impudent de
mand of a tributary loan they will abandon,
because they cannot enforce it. They will
accept or perhaps efftr reasonable terms, be
cause by ti'cir precipitation ibey have exci
ted in America, a resentment which dif |
daini abjeA submission. We fha'l probably
hear no more demands of apolegy, for the
Presidents fpeeili. or any other humiliating 1
condition : for once, moderation with them
will become a virtue of neceffi y.
To her forunate situation America is in
debted for thipower of aflerting her iride ;
pendence. This parrel, will encreafe the
chara&cr of Irr government, aad ths impor
tance of the American name. The tempo- ;
rary bulUe ithas occasioned, will teach her j
to know herown consequence, and her own '
strength. I will faife her in the estimation
of foreign p>wer», and, what is better, in '
the opinion as her own citjiens.
The gooi ar.derftanding which prevail*
between Lird St. Vincent and the Spanish
governmen; has given umbrage to the French
Executive; and the republ'can army under
General Angereau, at Perpignan, has re
cently received confidrrable augmentation.
His i.'atholic Majesty was forcpd into the
contest witii th s country, in opposition to
his inclination and interrtts ; and in its pro.
fecutioQ has experienced nothing but disa
ster and disgrace. There exilts therefore,
a strong concurrence of circumstances to
warrant the opiuion, that the cabinet of
Madrid is wearied sfthe war. The influ
ence, however, which enforced its unnatu
ral coalition with Fiance still prevails ; and,
we apprehend, must render ah overtures, or
difpolition for peace abortive. The recip
rocal civilities of ths . British Admiral and
the governor of Cadiz are most extraordi
nary, ai d we believe unknown in the annals
of war.
Arnaud, the celebrated Naturalist, who
was taken on board of the Sensible with
General D'Hiltiers, has contradi&ed, in
strong terras, on his return to Paris the re
ports of the ill treatment of the French pri
soners in England.—
He acknowledges for himfelf, that he was
received every where with the utmost ur
banity. •« H t was alked," he fays, «■ if
he knew the ohjed of Buonaparte's expedi
tion I"—His reply was, " that he had been
on board cue fame (hip wiih that general,
and very frequently in his state cabin, but
that he never gained any information or
this subject. The general, he added, Was
accumltmhed to amuse himfdfat theexpence
ofthofe who picfumed to question him on
this fubjea," The next day he nfed to
rally tfc-em on swallowing tW talts which he
had narraied the day before. No person
could be hurt by this conduct but it put
an end to alt further interrogatory.
An Eafl India let'er from Pulo Penan rr
-P d u F * bruai 7 l 5» llat « « Allows
" 1 " e Druid came in here yellerday after
noon, with the L>f» of her Captain, who wa3
1 pea red by the Malays at Toolafamoi The
particulars of this circumstance are as sol
lows: It appears some dispute had taken
place refpe£ting a sum of money wiich had
been unjultly extorted un-ier the prtext of
its being indebted to the Malays on a former
voyage.
" Picrcy got ail Officer and twenty Ma
rines sent on shore to recover this money
I hey were held in parley f, )r some tj ,
when Piercey recollecting a linguist's house,
went thuher to get the man ,o interpret.
1 he people of the house opposed his entry,
and he attempting to force his way, a man
made a thmit at h.m with a spear, which
Piercy parned, and shot at the Malay with
a piltol; as fonas he fired he was speared.
A lea cenny wl)o was with him cut off the
man s right arm, but the fellow got the
fp«r ,nto his left hand, and attempted to do
more mifchief. The Marines, upon this,
killed and wounded several of the inhabit
ants, and had two of their own number kil
kd, two mortally wou„ded, a«d some ethers
more flightl). The m.-n were embarkpH
and Captain Thomas, it is reported, fired
upon the town Pitrcy die(J
boari" r tCr hC h3d beCU brou on
emi > ant of diilinftion was lately ar
rested at Pans, but by desperate exertion,
broke fiom the person* who wtre condud.
s
in* hirn tojkiiS A. he rau, bis
cried (Tut, "An emigrant* an emig, ail »
1 he people appeared imereUed in his f a '
and by nukijig way % him, fought tn -J
his escape, On tUis, the others Xfcxacli
" A thief, a thief;" when he was ft on Ife
and seized, and rendered before a m ;£ Ped
tribunal, by whom !,e was fertenced t«
(hot. This anecdote Is recorded in f Uppor !
of the assertion. repeatedly made, that S
the exception of the p«rchafers of nat 2
and prqperty, and pctfon, , n "f
diatny participating i* the public Admin if
trpcoo the people of France are decid-H
innr.ical to the system by which they
prefeqt govvrtaed. 7 at
j -Letters from Corfu, dated T u | v . 3
that the French general Rofeha's eLufS
the ucuigWr of Ali-Pacha de Jannira
1 his extraordinary marring w aß celebrated
with mucl, pomp and magnificence : „£
ai" r? unched °" th ' ° cca fioo.
A letter from Naple, of the uh
mentions an extraordinary inflance of C Z'.
age and presence of mind. — A small br) -
having aiec with an Algerine cruiser
j Syracuse, and finding thenifdves likely to
i be overpowered, tha cantam afV*,. •
j his (hip dos- ; ,io«g r,l, '^TCToI
j board the Algrtine, and with an axe, which
helnd '.lus hand, cut the rope from th"
; inainfail wheh the <■ nemy could uot hoist
I id Ids than an hour, T , Neapoli
tan capt.n. tnrew himfelfinfo thr sea \>„,l
.«.»Mh i„ r : f„ r ~,,,,
wiiilc the baibana'.s frtmeet to be struck.
motionless at the attempt.
„f M 3 C r; ty Tt lhr nc, ff''bourhood
of Manchelier, latt week, a cnature or
non defer,pt the shape of a human bc.W
filled to eat mutton pies agaiidl a bull
m ITa.r u";" 1 " 1 ' 1 ° rdrr t} ™
fii.uldJlartfav*, had been kept on the muz.
ile t r about tinrty hours—A bslket of
two penny pies was produced—when the
element commenced ; the voracioufnef*
ot ihe buL dog produced fymptems of f u f.
location, when he had got the twdfth pie
in his jaws but the wary (kill of his bro.
ther brute out manoeuvred him—he proceed
ed on 111 flow but furc mailication, till he hA
rendered thirty-three pies invisible, when ne
completed the rational triumph, by eating
the remains of the last pie which'the bull
dog had dropt from liij'chops! This tender
delicate (lamached gentleman, has challeng
ed to eat tripe ag.inft any maftiff in »he
country.
On the nth of Au 2uft, Mr. Stone of
Quorridon, in Lticetttrrtiire, imde a public
(liewof Rams-, when, within two hours, the
following were lett for the fcafon at the pric
es dated.
No. >8 a Shearing, hired by Mr. Duddin, for 4 ®ol.
,1. ditto Mr. Cuke, jeel.
7., ditto. Mr.Dalby, „01.
"• Mr. Trueman, 3001.
7. a two-lhear D. of Bedford, <ool,
(and 1.1 tup 20 ewei before be is fait to hit trace)
9. ditto Mr. Winfield gopil
... , , stool,
No« 11. and 7, were the produce of one ewe.
'A letter from Plymouth, dated the 15th
inft'. feys, " This morning a duel was
fought near Cawfand, by the surgeon's
mate of the Force gun boat, and a midship
man. Thepirties fired two fliip pittols, at
twelv: paees, a id the midlhipman then urg
*4 Hit. a«taguuiiLu> to jhe difiance
•f fix which was complied with,
whui, dreadful to relate, Mr. W , ths
jnidfhipman, after an exchange of two brace
ofpiltols more, received a ball, which went
through the vertebras, and came out on the
lefr fide, and a severe paraplegia, or paraly
sis of the lower limbs taki.g place, he f 11.
He is now in the royal holpital in a mod
mifeiable ilate, perfectly dead in the l6wer
limbs."
The Skeleton of the 53d res;t. lately re
turned from Indi3, some days fnice arrived
at Catliam after an absence of 15 years.
DONATIONS,
Received at the Encampment at Mailer's
place, far the use of the poor.
Oitober 25.
6 pair womens new fhocs, 8 pieces of new
ly made children's cloathing, and twenty
do lars, from Mrs. Ruan of Frank
ford.
l ohnl ff r 1 Com.
rona. Kobe ton y V
tfaae IV. Morris.) m " Ue '
donations;
Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, far the
Use of the Poor.
Oftober 25.
One bundle containing 13 sets babe clothes,
from a person at Kenlington name un
known.
PETER MIERCKEN,
Sauthwark, Odi. 25. Chairman.
DONATION.
Received by the committee appointed to relieve
thejick and infirm poor in the city.
Fnm Thomas Wilier and Jolh.. Wain, 19
cord of Wo tad.
From Henry Toland, 60 dollars.
By order of the committee,
EDW. GARRIGtfES, President.
Attcft,
P. Barker, Glerk.
10th mo; 18th 1798.
To be fold or Rented,
THE fahferiber's hotife, No. 78, Walnut
street, with a collat and two Sables—Poffeflion or
the hoafc will be given early in November—the
(tables and cellar inimcdia;cly.
GEORGE MEAD.
Oilofccr 24, stf
GEORGE DAVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of infoiming
his friends gener-lly, that so soon as the pre
sent fckacf* will aJmit ir f he propofc# to olTwf for
i'aic, th« moit
LAW BOOKS,
| he ev«r impottcti, or that wis ever imported into
the United States.— Ihe hx? arrivals have brought
him a <t«m|<er of estreraelj valuable and (carte
SOOKS Mid those t*peAcd, will greatly add to
the quantity.
October 12. codiw
! *©p tljis SDap's: Soail.
NEW-YORK, Oft. 26 /
Yesterday arrived the armed fchr. John,
Capt. Gad 'Peck, in 1+ days from St. I'ho-
Vnas's. Oft. 17. !»»• 34, 3°' fp°ke .the
(hip Diana Maithcws, from the Havannah Frl
bound to N^-iv-York, out 17 day* ; capt
M.left the HavaairaH fleet the day before.
The Ihip Apollo, Moncrief for N. York, Froin
failed from St. Thomas's September 26, the
fch.nonet Ann, Fowler, was t« fail n a M
hours after the Little John; the brig Fe
licity, M'Kenzie, from New-York, arnved
at St. Thomas's, Oftober 5, after a passage
of 26 days. t he 1
Yesterday returned to this port from a
cruise, the Cotter John Jay, captain Leo- £B7l
Yesterday arrived the schooner Suffolk, £ham
captain Dunlevy, in 37 daysfrom Jaeque,
mel, and 25 From Cape N. Mole. On h -
passage home, he was taken by the Ei.gJilh f
(hip Roman Emperor, captain Kearney, and
carried into Cape N. Nlolc where capta.rt
Kearney treated him with thegrfatcll po
tkenefs. acquitted lnjfli Left at the
Mole, September 26, the ship B.ack River,
Travis; brig-—, and
. schooner Charming 13,-tf.'/. ..way, of j J
Baltimore, with a number of other Allien- » lrea
can vessels, to fail in a few for Junaj- I
ca Tlie fehooners Prelidsnt, Clafk, ana |
Four Sillers, Young, of and for this port, ;
were to leave the Mole at ilts evacuation,
which was to take place, un the ill Oft«-
a r
03. 10, lat. long. 7S, spoke the ; J"
schooner Friendlhip, Eiiflia Snow, from |
Kingston, Jam. bound to Boston, who 011 I .
hie passage had been takt.n by a French • .
privateer, a priie master and 6 Frenchmen
put on board; hiVcjrt'w, except the cook, 1
put on board the privateer ; a few nights
after which, he, with the affiance of the
cook, retook his vrflt-i. 1 iie prize-maftcrl ,
mate was the obly one killed. Captain
Snow was out of bread and water, with P'
which captain Du-.ltvy fyppiied him '
Ortobcr ij.ia'. 38, 45. long. 74, 30.
fpofce tlie brig Fr'endlhip, Bcaty, from St. i
Üb;-s, bound to N. York, out 63 days had ln
on board passengers, captain Wettimore, 1
a'ld a merchant, name unknown, of New-
York. They reqnefted captain Dt»'.:levy to 1 •
4ioill out his boat and take them on board w
hia vessel, but being short of pruvifiois and j a> .
water, could Jiot comply. " . (
CharMon, OSoler 12. P rc
cor
Yesterday arrive! the (hip Harmony, j.
Mulder, Havanna, 11 days ;brig John, Tate
Havanna, 11 days, fchr. Sally, Stanton,
Havanna, 11 days ; fchr. Ranger, Booth,
Havanna, 11 days. f ut
These vessels failed from the Havanna,
with upwards of forty fail, bound to the mi
Northern ports, under convoy of ,the Con
> ftellation frigate, capt. Truxton, and the |Q
Baltimore sloop of war, capt. 1 hilips, of j
24 guns, the latter of which vessels is now
off our Bar, and will remain there for a day w{
or two. The Conllellation has gone on •
with the remainder of the convoy. to
The brigs Dolly and Thomas, which fai- j
led with the convoy bound to this port,
were (ern to the fdvuhwavd of the Bar two
days ago. m .
BALTIMORE, Oftober 25.
Citizens, Beware!
An attroci»us attempt was made last night a £
to set fire to Mr. Paul Harman's house in p C
Water street, by placing tire and combufti- m
ble materials in (he cellar, among a parcel of
wood thrown down in the evening. It was di
burning the cellar was opened this f r
moraing. Had the horrid design of the in-
cendiary succeeded, there is no calculating
the damage that compaft block of building 0 I
and the city might have sustained. a]
T
Extracts from the log bonk of the (hip AlUc- f c
marie, Marfcfialk, from Hamburg. ££
Left theUbe,the 7th of Sep ember, in com- j
pany with the (hip Carlton, Gardner, bound
to llaltirnore.
Brig Courier, M'Ever, bound to Philadelphia, y 1
Schooner Phoenix, Gale, bound to Boston. E
Left at Hamburg the following American ves
sels ju
Ship Mary, Nye, of Baltimore, fc
Rnfe, Edwards, for ditto. f e
Wafliington, Jobfter, of ditto. j
Ship Dianna, White, arrived 25th August,
to tail for Ni-w-York September 15.
Ship Arethufa, Guthery, airived July 27, "
to fai! for St. Übes firft wind, el
Ship John, of Salem, Putnam, to fail for Co- fa
pcnhagei., to fjit Hi ft wind. ei
Ship Abigail, Hammond, as Boston, waiting g
for orders. r
Ship Chilrtorte, Greenfield, of New-York.
Snow Three t'ricudi, Hefferfon,, arrived Au- '
gust 17, to lad in 4 weeks. I
Brij; Betsy, ChatfielJ, of Baltimore, arrived a;
ft
Brig Polafki, Shoemaker, arrived August jB.
toiail Odlober 1.
Hrig Saily, Havens, arrived August *B, to
fail in j weeks.
Briii Nancy, of Boston, to fail in ro days.
Pifled the following vessels in the river, boun i
up:
Ship Ins, Nelson, of Baltimore. t
Little Martin, of Philadelphia. „
81 ig Ilope, of Nt*v-London.
The l J epgv, 1 aptain Raird, from Philadelphia. C
to Bilboa it takMi off Cape Spinas, by four row
boat?, and carried into St. Andeio.
ARRIVED. \
Ship Pomona, Waters, London.
1 Catherine, HuU. z
Brig Juno, Yout g, Liverpool. '
The Subscribers to this Gazette .
residing in, and near Germantawn, 1
are respcctfidly informed, that their \
. papers will be forwarded ( daily) to 1
Mr. Samuel Ricbardet, in German- \
tcrs'n ; •where a list of their names
Iwill be left,
%i)i 03>M*fc
ihip I:
Th l LAPEL P H lA~ A ' hlC "
SATURDAY tVfeNING, OCTOBER tj.
From the True American of tbis morning.
TRANSLATION
, From a French papsr, re 1 e;ved by an arrival at
Che'ter, in 1? dav« from Bourdeaux.
1_ Cong:
Of Buonaparte..
Conjiaatirioplc, August to.
There no# esi!ls not the least doubt of AJfem
5 the French Toulon fleet having landed in
Egypt. Our government has received in
formation of it throagh several different
channels; but it has not;yet received any
tirciimftantial details of the military opera
, tions of Buonaparte, and the opposition
[, made by the inhabitants. The letters and
j reports which continually arrive, are too Con S
|4 Vague and contradiftory to be relied upon.
Some announce the taking of Alexandria Sena.
c and Roletto with the loss of much .blood,
and that the Candian merchants who were ■"M en
j there in great numbers, were all put to the
,f sword. Others affurf, that the French are
j. 1 already in poffeflton of Cairo (situated at
j_ | 153 miles from Alexandria,) wbilft our bell
t ! Buonaparte has been obliged to retreat, af
ter a bditlc fought with the army of' the AU"
Beys, betweefl Cairo a?d Rofetto. • The
difagreenoent of all these reports iv a frefh
ie reason for pricing confidence in the official
m 1 advicss, received by the Po te from Dami
.n j etta, dated July tB, woic'n lay. that the
.| T French were entrerched in the enviro.is of
i Rofetto (39 miles from Alexandria) r.i view
1, of tlie army of the Beys, which was only AW''
lt g one an half from their camp,
he g reat fermcnta on Hill reigns in this
r , 3 capital, and the police will be forced to r -
( ; (l [. double its vigilance in order to hinder the
th people from committing,violence upon the J!''
1 French who are h.re.- However, the K°"{
vernment still continues to aft with modera<
; tion and caution towards them. Every one
' interprets this conduft according to his ojvn
re wilhes or opinion. Some fee it in a secret on
w ' intelligence with the French,others believe
to it to be only an o{ circumfpc&ion,
ir j wh : ch agrees with the secrecy of the mili
j tary operations tiiat are preparing. If any
thing can folvc this fpectes of problem, it
is the orders issued by the Porte to all the -"®*
provinces ef the Empire. The preamble is
conceived in termi of thelfmoft marked in- .
dignntion ; the proceeding of the French is J°"
ate there represented as the most unjust aft of "Jr
aggression, and. to the faith
lL '' of treaties. , These orders prescribe mea
sures offenfive and hostile.
n . a ' The English Minister appear* to have
lie much influenced these determinations, and '
his aftive leal neglefts nothing that can tend
le . to strengthen the energy of government..— Or
0 The Ruffian Ambaffadordoes not appear to
,ow shew less aftivity in his negociations ; but
we do not remark a concert in the opera- tiei
on tions of the two Ministers, and if they tend P r(
f . to the fame ttid, the meaos they pursue are tul
aI * widely different.
ort ' Buonaparte has addressed a letter to the t " <
two Divan, in wlijch he fays, that if the Otto
man Porte fliould permit the Ruffian fleet to
pass the Dardanelles, he fliall consider it as t! ?
a declaration of war.
He requires the Grand Signior to put
■g' ll aside all the pretenfious of Russia ;to op
e in pose firmly all attempts which that Court
ufti- might make; and adds, that he has the na
el of jrreateft reason to txpeft such a line of con
was dust from him, as he has delivered him
this from his greatest enemies, the Knights of
: in- Malta.
ting Official letters from Canne, in the island na
J"»g of Caudia, dated July 18, announce the th
appearance of a squadron before that city, ci
The Commander, after having received in- jo
Llbe- formation refpefting the French fleet, de- !b:
termined to fail direct towards Eeypt, A; dt
i letter from Smyrna, of the ill of August, jfr
fay», that this fame squadron was met b«- j w
phia. yoßd Rodes, failing with a fair wind towards fe
n. Egypt. h:
vef. The fidelity of the Greek Patriarch has h
just been put to a severe test. Some per- tl
sons had endeavoured by a thousand promi- o
fes and perfidious insinuation to draw him ; b
„ into a conspiracy in favour of Liberty. He I ci
' pretendedto agree to the of the emif- o
s?i faries who made him the proportions, and It
endeavoured to procure from them all necef- n
Co- fary inform tion- No sooner had he obtain- w
ed it, than he communicated it to the Grand tl
"' n ß Signior. His Highness thanked the Pa- c
k triarch, placed himfelf at the Head of feve- I
I u . ral thousand Janifaries, marched to Pera t<
(fuberb of Cooftantinople) and there caused n
rived all the accomplices of this conspiracy to be si
strangled. Orders to execute similar justice n
H »8 ; have been sent to every place where the ram- ii
nifications »f this confpircy are known to a
8 > t0 exitt. t
?. ——
From the Federal Gillette.
oun 1
The following extrafts are taken from r
two letters, dated in London, 10th and 15th ' 5
ia - of August last, to the fubferiber, from his f
.. correspondents. c
' a P ta '" -A" Foster, of your fliip the f
Walhington, we hope, will fail for Yar- t
mouth to-day orto-mnrrow, under convoy, f
which we expeft our friend, Admiral Lord (
,don Duncan, will grant him, in consequence of t
[_j lt |j a letter wc gave Captain Foster, to be pre- ,
pool fented to his Lordship. Hts cargo will go '
to a very gopd market." |
" Admiral Lord Duncan has appointed )
Zette a culter t 0 take charge of the Washington, ,
Cttin, Captain A. Foster, from Yarmouth to the ;
their Humbcr, where a convoy for the Elbe was ,
It o lying ready to fail; tbe Wafhi. gton, under
this convoy failed for Yarmouth Roads early
,! ' l7! on the 1 2 J* instant, with a fair wind, and,
7tiles vve hope to hear of her fafe arrival at Hr.nl
burgh ve>y soon."
X
It ij v;ry pleating to the friends of com fill fu
mtice to hear of f.icfr repeated aits of friend- conniv
(hip from Admiral Lord Duncan, and for f rampl
which he has my warmed acknowledgments. tr<l i»><
JOHN HOLLIN3.
N. B. The Walßington arrived fafe at irfs a
and ex
October 24. or a f
:a(lrof
election Returns. ,7'J
Dauphin County. . .. tliofel
Congrtft. —John A. Ha •■us, 1184 w "
Daniel Smith; \
Senator.—--John Kean, 1075 f' 1 .
Anthony Kelker, 697 th f d !
f Membly.—-David Ki iufe 1254
, James Wilson, 1190 0 f °"
Thomas Forlter, 949 '
t William Mjjclay, 861 I ou^.
■ William Crabb, t ~ '
. Ulrich Wcltmer, 457 I ™
Northumberland County. ! State
Q Congstfs. John A. Hanna, 1868 jtttui
Daniel Smith, 958
' Senator. Samuel Maclay, ,1981
I Jonathan Walker, 848 fl eot
' Affably. -Jacob £ulmer, 2107 bltan
Simriji Sch eider, 2098 an " 11
._ William P. Brady, 904 erted
c tred
'i| , Washington County. our c
,f Ctngreft.—— Albert Gallatin, 2163 u,lrei
f | ohn Wood.°, , 714
" Membly.- Aaron Lyflf, 21.09 ? ,U "
Z Absalom Baird, 1962 th
n John M'Dowel, 1818 uccc
J John Hop, 999 [ ei,c ;
William Wallace 794 J! as 1
William M'Farland 545 ,ev '
le gOOC
W:jlmireland County. ! J| n . es
i v AJfemb'y. Michael Rugh, |
5 John Wright, Mlfl
Abraham Hendricks, i t ' lro
ns j tern
u" Fayette County. '
l AJfembly. Jof.-ph Huitm, 1224 <jifgi
... J. Cunningham, 913 fll J »
S. Jackson, 381 i ra "
a< ; r«nd
L Allegheny County.
... Congrtft. John Woods, 175 1 1
ve Albert Gallatin, 1304 j l " s
, n AJfembly James Sample, 2020 g ua '
1;' Samuel Ewalt 1840 in '^
"* ' the
jJ c Mifflin County. a PP'
he -Congress. Andrew Gregg. 1561
j s Dr James Armstrong 339
j n _ Andrew Gregg in the Diftrift has a ma- ViC
lis j° ril y of 7° 6 -
0 f Ajfemb\y.~—Vfofes Williamfon, , The
j t jj James Harris.
£3~ ~ 1
One of Gregg's voters said he would not frat
lve vote for Dr. Armdrong, because he was a whi
n( j Gentleman—Gregg's fupporcers voted for in t
n j him then because he was not a gentleman.— que
Oh rare times ! 26t
<
3Ut Washington, Screen and Allegheny coun- day
ra _ ties compose a didrift, which feeds one re- fch
■nd to Congress. No official re- tak
are turns have as yet been received from Green, rd
but from every information Mr. Gallatin is ftel
t b e the fuccefkful person. mo
to-
to Henry Woods is elefted a"representative be<
t as t0 Congreft, by a large majority from the
diftrift composed of the counties of Frank- coi
p Ut hn, Huntingdon, Bedford and Somerset. we
op
mrt By the latest accounts from the Havan- So
t h c nah, American produce was very low, that fcl
:on- islands very high. fhi
him • ~ **
so s New Brunfwick (N.J.) 03. 23. K
The accounts we have received of the
land nav 1 engagement in the MrditerranfaH, thi
the theugh not official, are v*t too circunvllan- f
rity. cial not to be true. It is a fubjeft of te- bi:
in- joicing to all the world that the infamous co
de- band of robbers who have d. folated the molt
A j delightful countries of Europe, have torn
rust, j from their foundations its ancient republics, bj
b«- j without even a pretext, and who have now Ja
aids set out on the avowed fyflem of plundiring,
have thus received a timely check—Modem Hi
has history furnifties no example of a plan like br
per- this adopted by the French ; and the annals n«
omi- of mankind produce no parallels to the b;ir- f a
him ; barity and wantonnefs with which they «x j w
He i cute their infernal purpofea. They avow at
:mif- once that property is a common right, be- dt
and longing to the vaLur that seizes it. What
ecef- more can the common highwayman plead ?
tain- what more 1 I challenge an instance whet tin
rand the common robber has dared to defend
Pa- conduA with such unparalleled effrontery.
feve- Religion they declare to be a cunftraint in-
Pera tolerable to free m nds—and it is to these £
used men, men who mock every thing you efleem
> be sacred, who violate private property with
iftice ho pretext but that of fnperior force ; it is
ram- in th«fe men, citizens of America, that you
rn to are invited to place confidence, rather thau
the rulers you have chofcn.
The powers of Europe are qt length wea
from r y 0 f flittering the insults and injuries which
15th France has been pleased to inflidl—They
n his s ee m determined 10 join all their force and at
one effort to crush the monfWbeneath their I
' tbe feet. Sufficiently long has she been fuffered
Yar- tf) be the scourge of
fnT oy> fion to the petty (tates of Italy, her trea- v
Lord cherous conduft to Switzerland, in a word r
ice of the hiltory of her tranfaAions since the year
r pre- 1752, has rendered her odious to the world,
ill go The north of Europe seems ready to coin- .
bine aganft her—the King of Naples in the 3
South has at his command an army of feven
•inted ty thousand men who Lara with ardour to
gton, rtfeue their national honour from reproach, '•
0 'he and the Turkilh Porte is perhaps now en
e was gaged in open war. '
under ]
early The State of New-Jersey has hitherto
, and b<en reprefer.ted in the Congress of the
H-ra- United States I y men true to rhe interella
of th ir country, wha could not in disgrace-
ful fupinenefs or what is worse ia crimmal
connivance fee th■ ir country's dearest rights L:it o,
trampled upcri, hrr cxiftence ai a foverewn iat
ard ii'drptndetu State threatened ; the fate dilp
■jf and Genoa held out to view, uh- Cte
irfs a fpecdy acqniefcence 'n the har.ghty
and exorbitant demands of France, (lie should S
for a short tun* ilude their melanclu.ly ca- (
taftrophe- It is with eitreme regret that ;
we are obliged to. announce that the scene !
is now likely to be changed—inflcad of ■ Chr
those firm deci ed patriots who have view- St
ed with abhorrence the foul abominatio:;s of St.
• the French revolution, aid who have exerr rl
ted themfeivfs to ..nard their country from '.j.!
' r the disgrace and misery attandant on French g co
principles, it is to he feared thru wc (hall, An
5 in fonie measure be repnfented by men who St.
have deferred their (itiuntry'i Cause in the Tri
( hour of Janger, and attached themselves to F"'
. ' the fide of her deadly foe. How (hall we ac
-1 count for this ? jacobiuifm has we hope finct p Til
1 the last election proselyted near e half our Q t
I State. Li EfTex county no stone han been Mc
c> left un'urned, no exertion has remained un- Ba,
3 tritd to vitiate and corrupt the public mind M
l Falsehood and calumny»a(;ainft our govern
g ment have bee 1 circulated among the inha-
-j bitants of EfTex with the mod malignant
g and indiiflrious piofiifioit. Maliee has ex-
erted all her venom ; the mod ranco ousha-
tred to that virtuous govrrnment of which
our country justly boatts, has pursued with
j unremitting ardor, its detellable, execrabl:
pnrpofes : and indeed tlie advocates for se
dition, the friends to anarchy and confufion S imu
; 2 in that devoted county have but too well
g succeeded. Some of the filth and excref
jg fence, generat din EiTcx, its mother country, y'V
has been brought to one corner of Middle- p.u: a
y sex, but its own loai'hfonae nature and the
gnod sense of the citizens of Middlesex, con
i fines it within the narrow precinfts of Wood
i bridge. Ihe negligence of the eleflori of
Middlesex concurred with this cause to
throw out the federal candidate isi the eaf
| tern diftritt. In Morris county which ser
vilely copies after EfTex in all its infaniy and
24 disgrace, the democratic ticket was fuccefT
fill; and the untimely division of the fede
a, ra'ills in SufTeX, confpircd with this cause to
1 -a. • to ri
; render our enemies vitt nous.
j It would not be however much to be la- |- m4
mented, if this fad experience would teach
• the federal electors in future to be on their
20 ! guard, to be more atrentive, more diligent
, 0 in their duty. Not one half the voters in
the western part of Middlesex, made their
appearance at the poll. I '*■
6l „—-—= ! 3
i 9. ©ajette Ratine Htft.
Thefollowing remarks were made on board the fci
Jh'p America, at the tia-vanna. \ Ji
Sept. 22, arrived three Spanish frigates bee
aot frsm Ferrol, with some troops on board, i„ ,
8 a which had captured a British Hoop of war :
for in the Straits of Bahama, called the Muf- j
'queto ; she failed frem the Havanna the
26th for Mexico. j ol
Sept. 28, failed from Havanna ; fame I 4
un- day. at noon fell in with a French privateer j 1
re- we fired several shot at, (Tie j
re- taking the advantage of a light breexe row- 1
en, rd away. Same day spoke the frigate Con- j
1 i» ftellation, in (Jo-npany with the fliip Balti- 1
more, waiting for the fleet to come out ;
crews of both (hips all well; there had not j
tive been afick person on board,
the Sept. 29, the fleet failed and joined the
uk- convoy, confiding of 43 fail, which
t. were the brigs Molly, Kilby ; George, ;
Harden ; Florida, Hafe ; Pol'.y, H-ward ; 3
/an- Susan, Sm>lry ; sloop Friends, Moore ; j
hat fehooner Brother, White, of Baltimore ; !
ship Sally, Smith, of . ! o. Patty Washington, j -
Stocker, do. the fehooner Experiment,
23. Knap, had failed for » port to leeward. ! 1
the Oil. 1, parted company with the fleet off •
faH) the Florida shore, inlat. 24, 28, N.
fan- ' Oil. 2, fell in with the armed (hip Z?no
' re . bia, from Jarnaica v bound to Providence, in
nous company with a brig and a fehooner.
mo lt OA. 12, off Cape" H itteras spoke the
torn fehr. Friendflnp, which had been r«-taken
lies, by the mate and one man ; she was from
now Jamaica bound to Bolton. _ j?
■ing, The Ameriee left at the Havanna <he
dtrri (liip Citizen, of Mew-York ; Olive, of do. -
like brig Maria, of Philadelphia, fehooner Daph
mals r.ey, of do. fehooner Minerva, of do. fix
b;,r- fail of the line, 5 frigates; and J sloops of
j*., war.
Wat American produce very law, their pro-
be- duce very high.
Vhat
ead ? CITY HOSPITAL REPORT. I
eiein From 26th to 27th O&ober.
d , ADMITTED.
te^ ' Niiry I.ockart ; James Co. k ; John Barns
V" DIED.
J hefe Exekiel Hoag. ]
leeI " Difchargcd TWELVE. I
T. Remaining in the Hospital, 39, 18 of whom f
u ,s are on the recovery. t
'r" Interred from city and luburbs 8 !
1 au City Hospital 1
Total 9.
wea . PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
v-hich Christopher Darrah, Steward.
They By order of the Board of Managers 1
nd at WILLIAM JONES, PreJidnL '
their Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
ffered
,pr C r- TWENTY-FIVE new cases of thepre
trta- vailing fever, reported for the lad 24 b«srs, ,
word r», by l< physicians.
: year
vorld. DIED]' —On Thtirfday evening, Mr.
com- John Warner, Whaleboue-cuttcr, a good
in the and valuable citizen,
seven- - , Lad night, Mr. William Beau
>ur to champs, North Second street, No. 255, aged
•oach, 28 years, from London.
ft en- , at Richmond, Virginia, Dr. An
drew Leiper, brother to Mr. Thomas Lei
per, of this city.
:herto > Yederday, in the Pennsylvania
f the Hospital, Barbara Place, ccdk, of the fe
terelU ver—One new cafe oceup* in tht house this
grace- mortring. C.
List of iiJi the Bur!a Is in the fever al Greve
Turds of the City and Liberties of Pii'.i
-(Llpb;a, as [aien from the books kef! by
Clergymen, S. xtons, &c.
[Col!eisled for the G*Xktte of the UsiTfD
, . States, by Ror.t'HT PAXTOW]
i " rpr
• A-an.'S of the Burial GrounJj. ]> Z
! _■ . .
ChnH cnurtb - ... 1 o
St I'etrr's - - - • VI) N -
St. Pauls - - . - ©' o
Firfl Ptclbvterian - • - oj o
Stroiid Prelbyterian - - - o, i
Third IVelbytcian ... oj o
' Sio's Prcfbvtrrian - - - o| o
» Affijciate Church ... cj o
> St. .V'ary'nChuYcJl - - - ij O
; Trinity Church ... <. ®
Friends' ... . . I o
Free Q\iken' ... c o
Sweden - - . - . o o
German Lutheran, .... i «.
Gtrfcan Reformed Prelbyterian c I
I Moravians' - - v o
Bap'tilU' . . c I
J fytethorlifls' . - - r o
U'ivrrfaliftl' - c q
Jews' ..... c 9
Citv: Hospital .... Cj &
Krnfington .... , I
Coates'n ..... $ Q
ti T lal for the last :4 hours 16 4
; bhip Brokers.
T'his ElUblilhincnt, commenced Vy the late Mr .
II Samuel smith, will be continued by
Row Simmons,
TTTHO rcfptdfully acquaint the Merchants,
\V Traders, and Matters of vclftUj that n»
p.ii: i or exert ivDs /hall be wanting to give general,
i C fatisla&iou . I his bulinels will be conducted at their
1 _ Stare, No. i cj, bou h VViier Street, near to the
, CuMoiu Hticfu.
* Oitobci i 7 dtf
at „ , ___
«» For SALE or CHARIER,
[' r-- THE SHIP
,d molly,
ff. Burthen 4»e® bat ret* < f .FTour,
e- s£?**** Philadelphia btitlt, welt found
tQ ■* 4*."*3S£fleSS£» and fitted, and may be ready
to.receive a cargo in a few day?—-the is pierced
18 guiif, and mounts ti uevtlix pounders, withi
a " fmi'i arms in proportion,
ch
eir »—=a iHE SHIP
u W DIANA,
,n Burthen i,ioQbajrtl« of Flour,
tir rjQff! CaSgK 'hllaftelphia built of live oak
I and cedar, it pierced for four*
I teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders^
1 with filial! arms in proportion.
h I
rHE £RIG
a. '-t&m AMAZ
urt ' ,en I -3 CO birrels of Flour,
j —Ne-.v-EngUnd built, has lately
tes been completely fitted, and may be ready for fel
fd, i n a few days,
tar For terms apply to
us- NICKLI'X U GRIFFITH.
'fee Who have for Sale
onboardfundry <veffels at Mjxcvs-Hook,
ime j j>oo o Uufhcls of Liveipooi finenit
eer ] i,ioo bulhels of coals
(Tie i s§6 cratei of queens wate alTorted
)W . i 7 tierces of nottled porter
on _ to barrel! of coleo'hird j aint
( j t j_ j 4 do. of purpie brown do.
i quantity of yellow oore in c-flcs
ut • , 6 barrels powdered Vcnefian red paint
no ' 6 barrels miTiera I black 'Jo.
15 barrels Spanish brown do.
tlie ! 35 boxes (« ' pipes
r £' j 89 h X" \ HAVANA SEGARS
r j ! 1 3,50 oIl»« prime Coehiceal
r ' i j barrels New Orleans indigo
,re » ; 4 puncheons Jamaica I'pirits
>re ! ! »o bales of fail canvass
ton, . 37$ flieets of copper, aflorted from 48 by 14
ent, to 60 by 48 inc es
Two tubs raised /till bottoms alTorted
t off 36 fix pound g«*s 4i feet, each
14 do. 4 feet, jewt and 41 bv each
50 barreli of gun powder
" n °t 6 cases Matichelter cotton checks
in 3 trunks niuflins and Ihiwls
14 cases mi.flinets, dimities and ginghams
aken 1 ' trun ' ls printed calicoes
• m tsales a »d coloured caflimtres
t bale of course woollens
Englilh nails alTorted.
'" c CKTioUer 27. fri.&fat. tf.
f do. 1
'-■ph- For Sale, or Charter,
' THE DANISH BRIG
15 ° f mm Louisa,
pro- NOW lying at fiwrlington.a
ry fall Uilcr.—For teimsQppyto
JACOB SHOEMAKER.
WHO 11A 3 rOR SALE, I
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bufliels of
St. Martin's Salt.
lomo.»4th, '9B diot.
larnJ A Young Woman from England
* would wilh to engage with a lady, in thi capacity
of Lady's-maid, or m the station otaHoufe keeper,
in a gei.teel family, or to a firglc gentleman. A
vliom good recommendation can l.e procurrtd from fotne
of the molt families in this city. For
8 particulars enquire at the printing office of John
W Fenno.
Odober I). *4t
9> STAMPS.
rd. Pursuant to the Aft of Congress, paf~
s fed »n the .ninth day of July, 1795, entitled
, n< _ <■' An Acf> to provide for the valuation of lands
and dwelling houfus ard the enumeration of
staves x-itbin the United States," —NOTICE
is -hereby given, that the firft meeting of the
e P r *' Commillioners under the said AiSt, f*r the date
i«t:rs, of Penitfylvania, will be held on Monday, the
twenty fecoad day of Odober next, at tbe bo
rough ef Reading, in the said lbte.
Mr. C - READ '
, Comroiffioner firft named.
Reading, Srpt 8, 1798.
Beau # PERSONS wholly unknown
' aseJ to me, who write letters to my ad
. An- dress 011 occasions entirely personal
1 Lei- to themselves, are particularly re
quested not to put me to expense of
Iva T a noftage.
Ie 1 0 T TTT T7
r c this John Warp Fenno.
C. Oil. 18 3tPROPOSALS, |i
*V THE J 1
Injur ance Company of North America. , t
For Insurance- against Fill, on Dwrtflliatg- ' j
Holl'cs, \K and other Buildings (and .
on Gcou!- c n-'awied in such Buildings) distant from *
Phi ladelj hia, in the United States.
r Common lufurance*, on hazards of ihe firft *
clal*, will l>c under* then at a premium of ahout
hall ptr c it. per annum. For extra hazardous 1
rifqu*s a larger preirlmn will be required, which . (
will vary according to circutiftances, feidom ei- | c
teedinp one per cent, per annum ; but in some i*i- , (
ftancfs, wfiere ihe property insured is not only in
u; il extrahazardous, but rendcrcvi Oil! more so *
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and t
occupation, the premium demafided will be railed *
according to circum(lances. c 1
Bodies and Ware-Houses, the walls and psrti- t
tions of which arc wholly of ftoritf or Well h
conf*?utfteJ, io as to b* guarded as well as may be
against fires from wkhin, and free from extra-ha
zardous buildings and occciipation3 inth?ir neigh- (
borhpod, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
eluls, and may be insured to their full vahie.
Mfo Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra -
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or package, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amaunt not ex- r
ceeJuig 4 000 dollars ; but if more than thisfnm I 1
" "quired to He insured in one tenement, an addi
tioiial premium will be required, in proportion to r
eircumrtgnces.
U- infurarces willalfo be made on building*and P
gorfds extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned 0
to tho rifejue. But it is Aot cafy to arrange these o
under particular heada < r clafTes, so as to describe f<
each with the necelTary accuracy. Eachccarf r must
therefore be decided upon according to rheciimm- n
lancet a-tending it ; and these circumstances wili, aj
in general, appear from the defcripticn accompa- fc
uyiflg the application. a^
Buddmgs partly frf brick or stone, fc
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And fn
both cases, the stile of buil«iin£, how they are oc
cupitd, how they are situated, the neighboring 3i
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to a *
be taken into view. And with to goods, —*
their tendancy, whether from their nature, or ni
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether *a
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and w
their liability in fufh tlate *o receive damage by nt
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be, llo
len in time of confufion harry, are all cir- £ r
omittances of weight; and' the premiums jnufl be b (
proportioned accordingly.
411. The following conditiont are to be under- w
flood by the parties . te
ifc. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu
lare I premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fectuil from the time of such payment and accp- 1°
ranee thereof, whether the policy be immediately cu
fignedornot.
ad. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion'of the term of the policy, without further ex- ba
penfe* than the payment of tha premium of the re
fteurc*) term, the circumstances continuing the fame £ h
as t hey were anderltood by the Insurers at the time M
the former irfnrance waft m* 1 e ; but the payment co
of the premium is efiential to such renewal ; and ha
il the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he 15 not insured mi
• during such t-inie ; nor can the insurance be renew- co '
ed on the former policy but by computing the *7
Commencement of the renewal from th<* expiration co '
of the former insurance. The fubje& of infur- P a:
ance may ceVerthelefa be open to treaty for a new Ge
in/uracce. wh
3d. If any otherirfurance be.madeoll the fame fa
property ; it mujl be made known at the time of
application, other wile the policy made on such ap
plication will be void. isc
4th O>o8» lurid in trust, dr on eonfignment, ma
p«:'.y be infutfd as such in a separate policy; but tan
th.:y are not t® be considered as insured otherwise. P er
SJI. This company will not be liable or accoun- Ca;
tabic for any loss or damage occasioned by any lor- ne *;
eign invaflon, or by amy military or usurped force
or by peafoii of any civil commotion ; or occasion, l he
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th- or
,hkc kind kept in the building, or amoogft tiie pro- 1
perty insured.'
sth. Bills of Exchange, Bonds ar?d other Secu- I
ritiev, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro- HEI
mii Tory Notes, are not included in any insurance ; !
uor are paintings, Dedals, jewels, gems, antique |
or mirrors exceeding the value of twen- ! jj
ty-five dollar'seach, to be considered as insured tine
Ufa particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment. a
7ih. No insurance will be made forafborter jf]
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fc- ©n 1
ve« years. Persons choosing to insure for seven Ta\
yvars ihall b eallowed one year's premium by way i
of dileount: One third ot a years premium ftiall na<l
be abated in like manner on an insurance for C qu:
Uree a la
Bth. Lofies fuftaincd by fire en property insured, nevv
(hall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li- ft on
quidation thereof, without deduction. c j ot
A defci iption of the property to be infurodwill a m
be expected with «ach application, to be made by f
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as w hi
by th# owner of the building 01 applicant for in- a 0
furauce, and atte.'led before a Notary or principal fton
Magi Urate, who will certify his knowledge of the p a j r
parties and their credibility. Is C(
VV ith relpeiTl to Houses and other Buildings. txte
rf>. '! he site and pofitiow; describing the ftan
Urcet or lpad on or near which the building
ft j nds ; Its contiguity to water, and other cir- fold
ftirnlhnces relative to the extmguifhment of fire G
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether cd ii
any and what fire companies are established, and hala
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. P art
id. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpedlive height and ®
rhicknels ; the flyle of the roof and of what
materials ; howfecured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the AtS
bottle a**d to the chimnies ; whether any and
what ele<flric rods ; the number and kind of At
fire pljces ; and the kind of deposit for a(he».
3d. Ihe diracnfions of the building and how
divided, and the flyle in which it is finifhed lb
as to Enable indifferent persons to j'jdge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the •■'ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, wheiher merely as a dwd- I.
ling houle, or for any other, and for what piir
poie , also ane/liraate of the value of the houle
or building independent of the ground. *"< l
4tb. The situation with refpcil to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leaf) one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within t
that dillance, how buUt, of what materials,and J
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufadory is car- in '
ried or, and particularly whether there be any *" tu
extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore- n M
bid; and of wlut kind. corn
RefpeilirgjfWj in Houses, Warehoufee, &c. to h|
j. A j cneia! description of the building in bufn
which they aw kept will be expetfed, similar in tern '
all relpcfla, a* to the danger from fire, with that me f'
required for Insurance on the buildings them
feWes. . .
a. A description of the kinds and nature of not
the goods, vrhcther in cafki or other packages, |
or opened ; and whether difplayeri in whole P ' E . :
pieces or in tin ul'ltal forp for retaUmg. And .'J'
j'' goo'• vary t p.teri.'ly in kind, l general
j ellimatr «♦ [fe» value of each kind profiofed to
| be inlured ; tv.:t lit the lalt particular minute
l nest defcription is not rxpecled.
• I 3. Ai tictn of the following kinds are deem
led extra katard®us, though in various degrees,
"P" ( in whatever bwiktirg tbey may be placed, viz. I
inii p';. h, tar, t - jrp;ntise, rol>n, wax, tallow, oil,
oal iTiflau.maolefpirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry g«ods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Gi.fs, china wire or porcelain, especially un
()u. packed; Looking glasses, jewelery ; and all o
ouj ■ ther articles mcrt than commonly inflammable,
lich or rroi "6 than commonly !iabl< to injury by fud
fj. ! den removal of ky moiUures, or particularly
' obr.bxious t«> theft on an alarm of fire,
in ' Letters post paid, direifl»d to the Secretary of
efo the Board of Dire&ors, will be duly ahended
and to. An 07y/<7-far Infurtnceaccoflvpaniid by the
lied raoans of paj'ing the .premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
rti the application contain an enquiry only, it will
veil bc.anlVerel.
' be By order of thfe Ao*rd,
hi- EfiENEZER HAZARD, Stc'ry.
sh- Office of the Insurance Company of No'rtj
lrft America; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1798. j
Feb. 14. iamtf
:tra
Mills, Portage, &c.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF FEARS.
di
to ' I Obe leafed, for a term not less than thr:e,
I Bor more than seven years, a V ALUABLE
ind PR.OPPHTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
led Onondago, and flat aof New-York, on the Banks
efe of the Seneca-river, two miles west-os the Cayuga
ibe ferry, and eleven miles east of Geneva,
uft This eftalfiliir'ment confifls of an exeellirnt grifl
m- mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
ill. age or carrying place, with between thirty and
pa- forty acre> of land, under good improvament, and
as much more in the vicinity, as maybe required
ne, for future improvement.
fn The grill mill is a handsome, Bew and well fin
ic- ifhed building, of 50 by JO feet, 3 Dories high
ng and lurl.ifhed with a run of excelleat Burr flonei
to and another of Efopus' (tones, of the bell quality
ds, —and the mod approved l>#«i!ts, &c calculated to
or make all the different qualities of flour for expor
ter tation or for homeconfumptipn : ftisacceflible by
nd water from every p irt of the Cayuga lake aiij Se
by neca-river, as welj as from the Seneca-lakc—and
;u . fromits litnation, commands a verycxtenfjve and
i r . encreafing eiftom ; The dream on which it Hands,
be bring the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
nevcf be in want of water ; and as it ha< been kept
:r- working during the feyereft feafor. of the tail win
ter, it is not liable Up be impeded by frofl :
u- The saw mill is- alfa new, .situated on the fame
'f- ft ream, now furnifhed with an ample flock of
p- l°gs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
ly cured by land or water, of the bell quality :
't he dwelling house is well calculated for the use
a . of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laige : The 1
x- barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
e- The portage is 3-4ths of a mile in iength, along 1
le the Seneca-falls—over which were p.ilV'd in the ;
ie I*l year, nearly two hundred boats with their I
; ,t contents; this objeA is already produdlive of a
id handsome income, which'mufl be incrcafing and
er permanent:
)e Among the many advantages of thisfituation,
■d must be numbered the fertility of the surrounding
v . country—being the b»ft improved part of the coun- -
ie ty of Onondaga —the" concentration of inter- 1
in conrfe by land and water, the Geneflee flateroad <
r_ palling through it, as well as all water carriage to t
(v Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ; £
which renders it a mofl eligible fland for a Stcne or <
ie Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fifh and 1
jf fowl, and the country witb deer and other game. «
Besides the mills already eretfled at this place, it a
is calculated for any additional water works that t
t > may be found necelTary—Fulling mill, baik mill r
,t tannery, forges, &c. may be ereScd at a small ex- v
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats irom the c
. Cayuga lake ; and it is tl;®u'ght .to abound in the t
- neighborhood. . a
The flock on hanil W'll bt fold to ths kflce, and !'
, the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, 3tc. may befold «
. or let the pretnifes. t
If apnrchafe should offer for the whole or an F
uudivided part of the premises it willbe fold. t
F»r terms of sale or leale, apply ta mr. Wil
. heimus MvNßtasi, at tkeSsneca falls, or to the
; i fubferioer, at Scnene&ady.
e I STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
jnne aawam
-j Federal Mills, »
A DJOININ'G Georgetown, and the City of Jl
r -ti- Walhington, willbe offered at Public Sale,
- on theioth day ot Septamber next, at the Uniou ' f
1 Tavern, if not preyioufly fold at Private sale. 0
' Those millsin point of fituationfor bufinefsand
I na ural advantages are generally admitted to be
' equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
, new, in which are ere&ed four pair of Burr mill- '
■ ftonts with elevators, hopperboys and bolting E
cloths, completely finifhed and conflru&ed in such ' c
1 a manner that the whole of the mills may manu- E
' faSare flour at the fame time. The country mill
5 -which is creAed near the other, is entirely new, a:
■ a flrong stone building, containing o»e pair of '*
' stones, and built in such a manner that the second P'
' pair may be put up wU'i little expence. This mill
is conveniently finifhed, and calculated to iarry on et
(xtenfively, country work, of ywhich it gets a con- tr
: ftant supply. Vhere is belonging to the said mills v!
; 17 i acres of land, the whole of which will bo b<
fold with the mills.
One third of the purctuf* money will be requir
■ ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and for the "
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further
. particulars willbe made known on the day ef sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLF.S, >»
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES Js" Co. in
Georgetown, july 13.
LANDING, .
At S«uth Street wharf, the cargo of the fhipCon
ntfticut, from Batavia— r-i
About 300 tons of Java Coffee, J
°f'hegiowthof 1794 and I7jjj
60 tons of Java Sugar, to r
In cannifters—lor sale by ; e j
PETER BLIGHT, « r
WHO ALSO orrias for sale,
150 hhds. choice.Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy xfl and 4th proof in pipes, hhds. u
and quarter caflcs r 13
Madeira in pip«s ta
Old Batavia Arrack
i u J_y } §_
John Haines Ssf Wm, Jones, Fl
■J3EO leave toinform their'friends and thepuhlic,
lJ ttat they, have commenced a Co-pattnerfhin
in th» SADDLINO BUSINESS, which will ia
future be earried 0,. under the firm of fit
HAINES is* JONES, l X
n Market Orcdt, No. 13a, one door abov« the •"
corner «f Fourth, —where they prtfcme (at lraft
to h»pe) that their attention to, and knowi»dge in i
bufinefj, their determination to serve on the bv£l |
terms, an 4 their known attachment as Native A- ' _
mericans to the Government and Conftitutioa Qf ~
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a gei.etous public. Although they can
not boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of f
pledging themselves, that thair manufacture fhal
bc inferior to none ill thi» city. ,
juae ii. tuthstf | 1 *
UY ~
ri| duty on Carriages.
to
Notice is hereby given,
m- TTHAT agreeably to an ad of of {
pjj X (Jnit.d America, pa.'T.J at P>iia-- (,
iz. delphia the ißrh d-ty of May, 1 Uyin* tin j
jj tics 011 carriage* lor the conveyance of persons, and i
|fJ repealing the a&* for that piwrpffc—'That [ 1
' there (hall be lerL'd, eoltadcd an l upoir »ll
|n _ carr;.'«jes for the conveyaucc of potfonS, which
jhall be kept by or for any perfdu, for his or her
. owniffe, or to lit out to hire, or for the convey
ing of piffengers, the ft vera: duties and rates t»l
---lj*" lowing, viz. dolls,
v For and uoon every coach 15
Upon every chariot ll 1
upon tvivy poll chariot IZ
c d upon every foO cha:(i 12
upon every with or without top 9
ie- npoo ever y eoachee 9
If upnn other carriage., having p-.iunelS 1
ill work u'jove, with gliffcs,'V 9
or curtains 3
llpoh four»wSi£e) carriages Ji,tying*} <
frnmfc bolts and tops, with steel ( 6 1
/prints " ) \
■ upon four-whteltpp carriages, with
wooden or iron on jacks J j
upon curricles with tops 3 1
upon chailii with tops 3 j
r upon chair* w it'l tops 3 j
upon iulkies v/jfh t«]v» 3 (
upon other two wh-.'ef top carriage? 3 j
- e » »pou two wheel carriages withlleel") j
or iron firings J (
of For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2 f
ks upon every lour wheeled carriage,}
framed pods and tops, C 2 j
»«d relling upon wooden spars j 1
ft' The Collector ol the revenue ol the firft division Lj
t of theficft ftrryey of the diflrid of Pennsylvania, 1
d will attend daily until the 30th day of September c ,
id next, lor the pirfpofe of receiving the duties on
■d carriage, at Gei'mantown, 011 tlte .Main llreet, a 2
little above the fit" of the JCing of PruJKa, of J
1 which all persons poUdled of such carriages are v
defircd to take notice. f<
" Notice is also given, °
y To all retaildealers in wines and foreign distilled
fpmtuuus liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence forcarrjing on the btifinefs of P
retailing of win sin a lei's quantity, or in less c
j uantities, than 30 gallon*—and one licence for n
j arrying on Che bufincfs of retailing spirituous li-
s quors in less quantities than twenty gilions, at the 0
J fame time and at the fame place, by ti
)t JAMES ASH. a
Colle&or of the ift division of the ill
Survey of thediftri&of Pennsylvania. fl
e O/Hce of lisfpc&ion at Gerrnantown, ") tl
Y > 22 d 1798- J t\
ss* Every denomination of Stamps to be had fc
at laid office.
e * t* The Stamp Press is removed ti
e to the Office ol Infptctiun in Germantown, on the 31
kflai* Rreet, a little above the figa ol the Kingol ,lfl
e a«:ommodation of those whowilhany inllranicnts cl
r flamped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, re
1 ugu«ta 22 cc
For Sale at Public Audlion,
ON THE PREMISES, a[
J TpOURLOrs on Harper and Keith's wharf, in 0(
. X Alexandria, on the a6th day of Odloher a ,
. next, if not fold at private sale before that time.
[ One of these lots is near the end of the wharf,
> twestjr feet beyond which the water is two fathsms l- e
; deep, about forty feet out lathoms, fifty feet !"
r out the water is four' fathoms, and gro\*i deeper .'i
I until it comn to the channel, whiih is about sev
enty feet from the end of the wharf. There is in
: as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level bt
the wharf, which may wa nt raising about a foot I 1
near the end. There is in this sale an half acre lot L '
Vi-ry fit for a tavern ; it is well watered, and an ex- ®'
: cellent fiand for that bufinels. T'fiis property will
b« fold for ready money, and altogether or fepar- ex
ate, as may best suit the purchaser ; it lays on the nr
[ lower lide of Alexandria, which is now improving fh;
I veryfaft. A iketch of the ground may bi'fsen in th
th« hinds of the Printer hereof. For terms nt
private sale, apyly to Wm HiRTSHBRNt, or to I'al
the fubferiber, inAlexandria.
JOHN HARPER. ; a ,
September 3 lawßw t0
Wants Employment, ll[
A YOUNG jkIAN, who has f'erved 1 regu- L
lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile bufi- •
nets in this city, wifbes to engayc in a Couating JjJ
house or offic*. writes a good hand and under- •
(lands accounts, can be well recommended and
security given if required. Inquire at the
office of this Gazette.
jone zi » gawtf
Balkenridge—for sale
IT coufifts of 920 acres, almost all of whicjr is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late A 1
Etrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five tarms, four of which arc bounded on the
Eafl by the river Pafaiek. £
Ih-.rj*are on it a cumber of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andja fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conuilsof 1500 finsbearingengraf
eil Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsoffaid
tracl near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great tic
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the •
bell and moty delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and 2ri
Forest Teeos, that add to ths beauty and eemveni- f,
ence ot the place. Its fixation is about 1 i miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. thi
from Morns-Town, and l j from Springfield—lt. f L
is wooded and watered. tni
1 o favc tromble, the price is five pound pr. acre da
incalh, on delivery of Ac deeds. Plcafe to cn
-luirc of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet. Cf
ebmiary 1. codtf
Patent Ploughs, ~~~~ tic
T° o k L «"» by Joseph Salter at Atfion th,
Richard Wells, Coo|jer's Ferry—Jonathan
Harlters Woodbury—and JefTe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require j
,e ' s ,clm > brei * the ground better, are kept in
«rder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate the plan is much Amplified and confiltsof
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles ind
beam ef wood ; they may befixed with wroushf tha
lays and coulters to be p«t on with screw» and _1
taken off at pleasure t^a
Patent lights for vending with inflruflinns for put
makiug them may be had by applying to John ran
Kewbold, or the fubinher No. ai» North
rront-ftreet. or t
IVho bat for Sale;
Or to Lcafe far a term of fta/j, !M
A number ol valuable trj<£U of Land, xvell
situated fer Mills, Iron vVorksor Farms, mod- P
ly improved, ly.ng chiefly in the coynty of Hun- ,
tingdon flat, of Pennsylvania. Those who may 3
mehne to v.ew them will please to lpp l y J m
John Canan esq. near Hunting Hon. Ed
Charles New hold. n 0
jLV -—— >«t
re be Let, ;;;;
An airy three Slory Of&k House
ON the South fide of Filbert Str e „
lighth«nd Ninth street, for, :crl y'
as tne Surveyor General's Ottcew£ n „^ e F N
: Hi, ChefnutStrtu.
«« c#Jt 1
! 1 «
. AN ACT
Pi, the iefirf of tin Rjugeet fr* 11 the Britifb
pi oi'hzceJ c f Gamriti and i\oz>:i-Seottcr»
BE it entitled hy the SeHjte and House
of Hep -efentniivJ f the United
i'J- i States if America, 'i/i Cotgrefs aJJ-mbled, 1 hat
du jrj f a ;i;(j. the claims of certain persons claiming
ar.d I lands itndrr the reloiutians t Congr f,, ot the
. t wri,by-third ot April, one thmdand seven hun
tired and =nd the thirteenth of
'' c '' Apr it, one thousand seven hutid'ed and ei;:hty
',;r five, as refugees from the Hiittlh provinces of
re 5J" Canada ami Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
* Department of War, be, arid is hereby autho
-5 rized aad direfled to give notice in owe or more
r ' J of the public papers of each of the States of
jj Verm-mt, Manachnfetti, New-York, New-
J2 Hamplhire and Peunfylcania, to all gerlons hav
-1 „ ing claims under the laid resolutions, to tranf
„ init to !he War-ofSce, within two years after
I the pafTmg ot this ai3, a just urid trut accaunl
. a of 'heir Claims to the bounty of C.i«)fre!i.'
I Sec. 2. .'hid be ti further mailed, 1 hat no
( other perlons lhall be entitled W the benefit of the
. 6 provisions ol this'4o, tjjan tnoff «f tfc ft-llow
ing deffriptiiins, A-their widows and teirs, viz.
First, fhofe head# of families, and (Tngle per-
foiu, not' nrpetifhert of ar.y fui:h f.itnfiies, who
3 were relidents in one of the provinces aforeAiid, ,
.1 prior to the fourtlf day of July, one th'oufand ,
.1 fevt-n htimlred and fev'ei'ty-lix, .:nd who aban- 1
3 tlon'ed their fettfemenrs, in cosfeq j ience ft hav
-3 i»g' give) aid to the tfnited Colon its or States,
2 in the revolutionary War ajiai jfl Great-Britain,
or with ifltentibn to give ft'ch aits, and coitrfnu:
2 ed in the United States, or in their service, dur
ing the laid war, and did not return to reside in
2 I the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, 1
' prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
i j l tlionfiii'i seven hundred and Se- '
jer con< "y. : ' ,e widows and fceirs of all such per
on I'cns as were aflual residents, as aforefaid, who 1
a a'-ijndoned their fcttlements, as aforefaid, »nd '
0 f died within the United States, or in their fer- ;
i re vice during the said war: and thirdly, all per
sons wh-o were mambers of families at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
e( j during the war, entered into their service.
(o Sec. 3. jind be it further enabled, That the j
0 j pro<nf of the several circumstances neceflary to
~s3 entitle the applicants to the benefits of this adl,
or may be taken before a judge of thefupreme at _
diftri<sl court of the United States, or a judge p
he of the fupremc .«r superior court, or the fii ft j»f f,
ticeorfidl judge of the court oi common picas f,
or County court of any State.
[ft See. 4. And be it further eeafted. That at si
a. rhe expiration of ftttfeti months from and after S
the palling of this ids, arid from time to time A
t!)«reafter, it ftiall be the duty of the Secretary b
for the Department of War, to lay fa;U evi
dence of, claims as hemay have received, before
d the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treafyry,
|, e and with them, pr-cted to examine the tefti
0[ mor.y, and give their Judgment what quantity
be of land ought to be allowed to the individual
ts claimants, m proportion to the degree of their *
s. refpeClive ferviees, facrifices and fufTerings, in
consequence of their attachment t» the cause of
~ the United States ; allowing to tKofe of the firft
ctefs a quantity not exceedingone thousand.acres ; lr
and to the iaft dafs, a quantity not exceeding f<
m one hundred, making such intermediate clafles 01
er as the resolutions aforefaid, and diflributive juf
®" tice, may, in their judgment require, and make 31
' report thereof, to Congrel's. And in cafe any
fuch elaimant shall have sustained such lofiis and A
, r lufferingj, or performsd such ferviees for (he I(
United States, that be cannot justly be claficd
; s in any one general class, a separate report fhill C
c l be made of h'l3 circumllances, trjgetber with the
)t quantity of land that ought to be allowed him, L
lt having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pn
;- "viJed, that in confiJcring what compeofitioii at
II ought to be made by virtue of this ail, all grants
•- except military grants, which may have been 1
e made by the United States, or individual States, 8
g shall be considered at the just value thereof, at
n the time the I'anie were made, refpe&ively, ei- f"
It 'her in whole or hi part, as the cafe may be, a
0 fatisfaCVion to those whb mav have r«ceived the ~h'
!*tie : Provided nffb, that no claim under this
law, shall be allignable until after report mide h<
to Congress, a« aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to thfc
benefit of this ait.
Sec. 5. lie it farther entitled, That all elsims
in virtue of said re'olutions of Congress, which'
' (hall not he exhibited as aforefaid, within the
' time by this ait limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred. E
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON, s «
Vice-Preftdent of the United States,
, and Prefulent of the Senate.
e Approved, 7, 1798.
d JOHN ADAMS, ar
e President of the United States. m
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of the ° r
1 Department of State,
e Timothy Pickering, p r
j Secretary of State. an
de
j Cj" Pursuant to the alovc Aft, No- w
t tice is hereby given to all persons hay.-
e ing claims under die resolutions of Con- r«'
1 grefs, of the 23d of April, 17 8 3 , and
s the 13th of April, 1785, to tmnfmitto 01
. the War-Office within two years after tJ
' the palling of the /aid Aft, viz. the 7th <jj«
» of April, 1798, a just and true ac- j*
count of their claims to the bounty of vi>
. Congress. thi
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten- o
tion must be paid to the requi fit ions of ! io
1 the 2d and 3d Sections of the A«st. th!
! < JAMES M'HENRY, ' tcr
- . Secretary if War.
' J»'y T 9 ;aw6w
; AtTRORX~OFTiTCEy
r October 10, 1798. -r
I Reports having been circulated 1
I th xJ Hli * UROR4 WAS npt to he re-publiflied. m<
I -The public are, hereby refpeflfully inlormed „f
that tne wait ot hands alone has prevented its re- ■
publication frvcral days ago; but that such ar
, rang«nents are now making as wi|l assure the ap- ab
' P"™" ° f the P'PT in the course of the present, hu
or the firft week of the next month. CCi
- - ' s_ «t c t
Mails for South-Carolina Ess Georgia pa
P A p A|f' 1 S " e " HW provided for carrying the rc<
• 1 01. C « raa y wi,fr Phila ielphid
■ an r ,^ r y "' ri "y w 'i" leave Philadelphia
on Fridays. The 1>0 (t by land will be contin.i- a
td t w -,ce a week until an experiment is „ M de in -
regard to the exped.tLm and regularity of the :
packets. If any person cl uses to have their
' by , lj r' ld tHty will to i
write the word Land upon the letters : other u "
W 'u fi'nil" ht fe ' U by !ha; ron -yonce which
Jofcpb Habcrjham, t'!
p, • . P°ft-Mifler Center/.
' 1 9 1
, ■
This Day Publi/hed,
J Arid for sale at the (>fH eof the Editor
oufe \'9 Chelnut-ftrcet,
un- BOSTON, in co.nmemcHtion of the anr.
of veriary of. American Indepjndeace.
ity- )' . %/#<•«.
s of * hc inroads upon our public liberty nil
the reparation—The wCones we havrfii/i*
ho . cMJor-Jutice. That !
ore Just's. may yet be obtained, by Union S/
of and Firmie;s. But to difje ,L ' p ' r "'
fw _ the maxim of the tfeytl fa the girdeTlf^fT"
„ v . and to Juu«ite and enslave hath beer, th- pr &
•••*»»"»'» ■!.« »uS3
unj Gbser-veHttrs on the Bojtov Port-Bill, Isic a ,»
4> /if <«fe 7. %u tncy ■ v 7*
£ 'i'KEASURY DiHARTMENT,.
Vf OnCE ,5 HEREBY
fin Tr a "r paffeddurin « *« Pr f«t
. fion «f Conersfs, so much of the »a 1 i
ind I,' D A " A J »£!<*«rther P-vifion L? h e'? £
port cf public credit, and for tU* ~ a »
an " "of the public Jebt"-pXd the t h?H H Pt,
lv ' March, one thou (an,l seven hundred and *' •
as bar. from settlement or ZItZT' 7 '
m, Certificates, commonly called Join Offi """i 1 -
iu- final feHement Cert.ticat- anH l , offi " and
ur- fcrefls", is suspended un£'thef '
m June, which willbf in the year one thousand icveo'
in, hundred and ninety nine. 11 -ven
>lle That on the liquidation and r .
Se- f.id Certificates, aid Indents of £
e,- Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to' rer
ho Certificate, of funded Three Per Cent. Stock eouU
Md to the a >"out,t of the said Indent, and thVTr
»• TJgfr? du ; r"""»
k°Je M t h her e F rin "P al fumsof the said Loan Office
and bnal fettlcment Certificates, with the interest'
he fandfrii < ? ft A $ Y °' J a " uar y, one thou
t° 'v r f r " nety 0nc ' wiU bedif
cnjrgw.d aater.liquidation «*t the Treafurv bv th*
- 0 ; W™ o ' f intpreft and reimburf*ment of' pHnci!
pal, equal to the funs, which would have been
if- f7r eon ; the . said Certificates had l.eea'
a. k fl' - AAs nuking pi ovifion
for the debt* of the t'nfci#. Staters, contratftcd dur
mg the late war, and by the payment of other
at I funis, cq»al to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by such
ie fublcriptiOEs as aforefaid, which market value will'
ry »c determined by the rof theTreafurv
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
re . „ Secretary of the Treafuryi
!■'. 18 lawtf
t y General ~
al pROPQSALS for carrying the mails of the
ir *- United States on the following routes will
in be received at this office until the zcrth day of
as September next inclusive.
ft 1. From Pittfburg ?. by Canaonftjurg, Wafh
i; mgton, Weft.Liberty, Wheeling and Wills-
Ig town to Zanes at the month of Licking-creek,
es 011 tie Mufkingnnj, estimated 14.0 miles.
f. Leave Pittfburg every Friday at ap. ivr.
■ e arrive at Zanes the next Monday by Bt. m.
iy Returning—Leive Zanes every Tuesday at 5
d A - M - aßd arrive at Pittfburg the next Friilav bv
, e 10 A.M. • '
d l- From Zanes, at the mouth of Lickinjr
U o" 'he Mufisinjtupi, by Chilicothe and
ie Mafiey sto Mayfrille in Kentucky ; estimated
], 140 miles.
i- Zanes every Tnefday at ? a. m. and
a arrive at MayiVille the next Friday by 10 A. M.
t5 Returning—Leave M.yfville every Friday by
ri »P. M. and arrive at Zaneslhe next Mondav by
~ BP. M. 1
it The carriigf of the mails to commence on the
j. ftrft dav of Natember next and continue untif
the firA day of OAober litoo. Payments will
ie ~be'"niat>r *|»*-a-rterJy, ;
is The ul'ual penalties for delays and ftilures will
e be flipulated in the contrail.
d J°f e pb Habcrjham,
IC Pofl-Majlcr General.
Philadelphia. July 13, 1798 m&thAw
\[ HEALTH OFFICE.
• r Philadelphia, Tjt Afay\ 1795.
Extract of an a& to alter sn-d amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, pafied 4ih April
1798- V
Sefl. 8- A il; rur!r};er eaafled by the au
■f*. thority aforefaid. That every house.
keep.-r within the city of Philadelphia, the town,
ihips of the Northern Liberties and Moyamsnfing,
and of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mits of the city, taking in boarders arriviag by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving any b«ard«r in his or her family, whofhall be
taken Tick oi any dif.-sfe whatsoever, beiwoen the
fir" <iay of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within ttventy day. nest after such boar
der fliall co-ae to lodge in his or her house, shall
Within 14 hours next aftcrthe knowledge of such
fickncfj. make report at the Health.Office of the
name of fucn sick perfofc, the time of hi. or her ar
- rival at the honfe and of his or her being taken sick,
, and of tne name and p'acc of anode of such houfe
kcep r; whereupon the Physician of the Health
-3 Office Oiall forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of fuchdif
eafe, that measures may be taken to prevent the
\ Reading of the- infedion ; and if any housekeeper
faail nrglciS to give information in the n.annerand
within the time aforefaid, fhall be thereof con
s vk'led, in any court of criminal jurisdiction within
this Comtnonwcalth. upon indifime. tby verdict
or cos I Sion, he or ffie lhall forfeit and pay a fine
CO the use of the said hospital, not Ufa than twenty
£ dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion of the court, according to.
( thecircumftances of greater or less aggravation at -
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
inw3m of the Port ot Philadelphia.
C A ur lON. *-
WHEREASa certain perfonfwindbtj
from me on the firft inft. by giving
. me inlieuthereof aforged check on the Bank
! of North America, a note of that date, drawn
| in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay,
. able in fix months, for three thousand four
, hundred arid fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are desired not to re
ceive any transfer of it. as it. will not be
( paid by either the drawer ox endorser unless
. recovered by law.
i ' WILLIAM NICHOLS,
1 Usee Street.
august 6.
1 'i'he Public are hereby informed*
I 1 HAT I did not mean to aufhorife Cel. Wll
iam Nichols to declare, that I would noc
un ess recovered by law, my note alluded to hi
cautioq of t>.e 6tli of August, publilhed in the Ga
zette of the United State? of lari evening. I sin
cerely lament his lo.'s, and t«ld him 1 would do.
ail I could do confidently wiih my credit to servo
him, hut went no iarthcr*
JO&N TSjrJS.
august 7 J