Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John W. Fen no, N"- 119
? .HI LADELP II IA: TLU.SEAY EVENING, OGTOBILR 16,1798. [VOLUME X IV.
c - The Subscribers to this Ga
'sette at Germantown, to whom,
(owing to recent disastrous events) y
their papers may not be particularly t
dfre&ed, will be furnlfhed with them ,
on application at the Poft-Office, in r
Gertnantown, whither art -extra -
number, for that purpose, will con.
ftantly be lent.
Remote Subscribers for this Ga
zette ate requested to forward pr. post,
the arrearages due from them refpedtive- .
?y s Post makers who may have receiv
ed fubfeript tons are earnestly aefired to
remit the fame. At this interesting and
jdiftreiTing cri lis, attention to this notice
will peculiarly oblig:: the Editor.
POST-OFPICE.
Philadelphia, September 26.
rTp'HEMail f< r NeW-C'sft(e'i Caatwell bridge,
1 D'ick crick, Dwer, Frederics,
Ceorge-towii and Daijlborough, Delaware ;
Trop and Snowhiil, Marvlvd, Horn Town,
Accomack *."<« rt-houfe, and Northampton/court
house, Virginia ; will be doled at this offic# ev
ery Monday, at half pall
eight o'clock, A. M. unt'l ill day of April,
i 799-
ROSERT PATTON.
September 2$ (tut
Bank of the United States.
I'hiV'riphia, September if, *79^.
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office oi and Oif-QUnt will be opened
on .\io>tay pext. at the h«*nfe lately occupied by
Samum. Richardet, near the Market Hcufe in J
Germartown —where'the bufincft of this IpOitu
tion wi'»l He trenfa&ed during th*'continuance o. J
the malign Iht fever now in Philadelphia. J
HENRY KUKL, AJJijianl Co/bier. <
September 42 d
Wanted; aPerfon
WHO will remra.3 to supply the Marine '
Corps, with rations, &c. Apply tu . (
W. W. BURROWES, 1
Major • Commandant of the Marine Corps. 1
Sept 29 J
Wanted to pure ha)'e.
APPROVED bills on Amllerdam, for which •
Cash will be gfi )en at the rate of »hirtv fe- 1
ven ctrtts per Guilder. Apply to the Calhier of >
the Bank of the United States. I
September - - -<? <
for bale. i
THE SUbscri/4Sr. intending Co decline thi *
BUUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the t
■whole Stock of 1
Drugs and Medicines, Jnftruments, BcL 1
The flirtp is elegant, com )us and fulfici- j
ently L-nov/n for thejxEfillfive burnr.fr, -"ooi :n the
wfcedefafir line ; the Htuation tfqual to '
awy in the city, being at the coiner of WMI nut and
Second ftreetß. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bell suit the purchaser. 1
Th* terms may be known, by applying to J t
JAMES MOOKE, jun. <
• Wia has Jfyr Sale, j
Weil calculated for i*ie river trade—
TheP£G6Y, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and RedCed r frame, and remarkably
stout, oi an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
gj* All perfhns indebted to the late firm ol
Glldthvki'it Us BalJivin, IV. B- GoUthivait, Gt>la
thwait & Af»ore> or the fubfcriScr, are earnestly
requested to make ipeecy payment to * *
james moore, jum.
-august t §
Ship C5 3 Insurance Broker,
THE SutCcrihfr, encouraged by the advice
of his friends, oilers his fcrvice to the pub
lic as n Ship and Infnrance Broker. H» pro
poses to buy and fell vefTbls and every thing re
lating thereto —affilt matters of vefiels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cuilom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling lnfur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have,
on hand the necessary Blanks ar.d Stamps.
Tapers in 'oreign languages tranflattd, and
information given in general mercantile matters
From gained by longexperiesce
rf every branch of bafinefs he hopes to be u!e
fi'l to thiife who please to favor him wiih thslr
coramantls. S/lAIUEL F.MERY.
angnft 24th, r;q*B. (J I
City Commissioners' Office,
3O, 1798.
IN pvr r >r»nce of an ordinance of the \e!cdt and
Common Councils, paffedthe 22d dar of M»v
*75».
Propcfils in writing will be received by the City
Comn, UTu^wis for one niont'a from the firfl of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent oh leal'es for nne
year, to commence the lirft day of Januuiy next,
the following public property of tUe city
T he whari vid landing ou Vine ftreut,
Also onSafTafras,
Mulberry,
And High tl reefs.
Cbefnirt an •W. l-<ut Areet % Draw bridge, witl
the Seal: and F,(fc hctdes, Spruce, Puis and Cedar
itres'*
The Cellar nrrtrr the Citv Hall.
The Tavern « the middle ferry on Schuylkill
s cortijuou* tlienrrti ftxeept so much
hereof a, ffi .11 be occupied hy any building, erec
fed for tlie mc of the C«U s a OTof thcTol * or be
neceflary for the toll gates.)
A Hated meetmg of the City Commtffioßm wi'l
Ve he Ht the Cty HaHev.ry Tuefd ?y morr . in , t
tenocio k, dttrmg the preTcr t epic'emic. t cl*n
TO HE Tiff
And immediate possession *iven ;
A convenient, well finifheil house 'No
lately occupied bv Doc
tor U iilar, With C<v>rb iiouf- and Stables
1. nature "of WILLIAM SHEsIFr,
• , 0 tlivh-flreet.
ju,y 31 §
Public Ndllce is hsreby Given,
I ''HAT Proposals unt}«r i'eal-dcovers, will be A
reecived o:uh« hclulf of the United States
wntd the twentieth day of Oileiter nejst, byjf»- A
nathavi Jackloti, Ei'q. at Bos n,
Tench Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, I'c-.-.nfyl.-
nia, and John Swi:tri, li'b. a. JJa'.timcre, Ma
r;. land, far iuppiying, the ft>Uo-4'i#g articles of
cioaihiug, [oc the aruay of the United States,
viz. w
FOR INFANTRY.
8,443 Hats,
504 Serjeant Coats
504 ditto » vtfts c ,
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls
1,008 ditto do. linen ditta m
1,016 ditto ihirts
264 M jficians ccats p c
7,680 Privates coatts th
7,944 ditto vests at
IJIBBB dltt.) woollen overall* is
15,888 ditto lin,en ditto '<*
31,776 ditto ih'.rts w
33>79J pairs oi Sock? 1;
33,71-. pairs of Jhoes a '
8,448 ilocksof black leather ft
8,448 stock c asps
8,448 blanket's. l 1
FOR CAVALRY. a,
6 M'Jlicians, coats S
aft Serjeant coats
26 ditto vel!« b
104 ditto (hirls ,P :
348 Privates coat's '''
3j4 ditto veils
1416 ditto shirts
7sc pair of Leather breeches
760 pair cf iU'cking*
760 pair of toots [,
380 Stocks of jblack leather
380 Stock dafps J[
380 Slsnketa. n
ill. Every article iliall be made of materials,
equally good, and in form, orfalhion, conform- j
ably to patterns for the larae, iealed with the d
seal of the War-Office, and which will be de
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered t!
to receive the piopofals, as above mentioned. *
2d. Swofn In'fpedlots fhail be appointed on b
the part of the United State!, to examine and
determiee upon the several articles aforefjid, ')
when the fame lhillbe ready for delivery, with
full power to rejavS every article, * hich fiiall net
equal, in goodnel's of materiaU, or to be made '
conformably to, the falhion of the ilandard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowance (hall be
made, for any article which fkall be rejeileil by
them, for the ca'ufes aforefaid.
3d. The propctfals muS fpecify the number of •
articles, and their kinds, which the party Is
willing to furnifh, together with, the lowe#
prices for immediate payment in mouey, and al
io the prices, on thelongefttwm, or terms of
credit;. w
One third of each, and every of the several ti
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
the fifteenth day of December, one third our
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining £
third on the firtl day of March r.eitt; and the
ptiblic will not be considered as bound to receive
any of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, which 7
(hall not be ready for mfpeolio*., and deliver\> (,i
at the periods agreed upon. ai
4th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received f c
in the lireral dates, at the places, and in the
proportions following, viz. One third part of f c
the whnle at Springfield, Maflichufetts, one p
other third at Philadelphia, state of Pennfylva- p
nia, or at Lirribertou, llate of New-jeiTey, and
on* third at Baltimore, Maryland.
jth. No contract/ v ill be made, for a less
number of each of the aforefaid articles of
cloathing, than is requilite for a company, viz < ;
FOR THE CAVALRY. ' I
4 Serjeant ©i>ats f,
4 ditto veils
r6 ditto (birrs
1 Musician Coat
5 J Private coats
59 ditto veils j,
236 ditto shirts t
63 stocks r
63 stock clasps , t
126 pair of leather breeches • r
126 pair of ilocki;i«js r
126 pair of boots a
blankets f
FOR THE INFANTRY. '
70 Hats
4 Serjeant coats
4 ditto veits
8 ditto woollen overalls 3
8 ditto linen ditto 1
J6 ditto (hirts j
2 Musicians coats
64 Private coats
66 ditto veils
132 ditto woolen overalls
5 132 ditto linen ditto.
ditto Shirts
283 pair of Socks
280 pair of Shoes,
70 Storks,
70 Stork Claips,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M<HEN;<Y,
3 Secretary »f War.
War Department, )
21 ft Sept. 1798. J j .
f ; ;
VVeft-Indian from Madeira.
CTj" Those Gentlemei who have Wines
on lioard the Wefl-In lian are informed £he is
now discharging rt South-flrect Wharf, are so
licited to hallen flown their permits, the VefTei
being immediately wanted, Peter bfrght.
Who wants to Purchase,
ico Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef
too ditto Pork 1
[ 7 or 800 ditto line Flour
I, 4 or STCO b'iffccls Indian Corn.
LANDING
From the IVest-Indian,
, A choice parcel of I'help's old (particular
Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use. ,
august 1 j siot 1
. - ————— 1
£? Wanted—Actuation in a Pub
lic or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
0 by a person regularly broticht wp to the Mer- 1
- cantile and Insurance business in London, It-has
- Ijtely l»een a voy*;Te from hence to the WeH-In
du e a c Supercargo, cm be -.veil recommended,
Please to enquire a: the Printer's.
"uguft 11
HAPPY DISCOVERT.
A. certain Cur: f.r tint,Atirmin. JnaJ/ul u'ifvrjcr
The Yellow revojr.
ds ~rc?l as any other e&ng;yjus fi-vcr \ crd
ague, (tnd of bey u.i.f • j JrfsJfcs, by
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WEr.L kn jwu and patented iu
?o\ >r\A, a»:cl all th^eapit;;i cities in Europe,
where fL»e mod cure- kavc been eff'A- T
ed on pcrjons judged i»carable by ?)l pbyijeians.
In a'Trcatife printed iu Lonco 1, on the properties j
of thi» po>vder v by T. Sdymour, M. D. lateCkt- v
miA. to his iVlajrfty, there are dated two hundred
cases, where this mofl valuable remedy has t>roved
infallible,- in all kind of fevers, pleurisy, bloody fitx,
invermtc rhgmmatifms., fciutica, apoplexy, pa*al\fie, yel
lowjaundice, ringworm, wot ms iV children aid in grorvt%
p erf am, tvhite.%, cbronhal bead and Jlomach ackes y heftt
tic*: and nephretteal or Jione cbt>!ic y tie ti.rgs evil, fctsr*vy
end tije mcjl inveterate jind complicated venereal disease. It
is iikewii'e the bell preparative for ffi« IntaU pox
acd measles; o! the greafeft utility foryo\mga* '
\vellas for eider ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. Ihe efficacy of this powder in leveral of the f ;
above diseases has been discovered by "chan Ce, and Vf
so it has been in the yellotv fever lafk year, by Mr-
Mahy, who cured several by only
tivo of the said po-wfers, and loft not a Grille pa- r;
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved iind
attelled by the kere annexed certificates, whose ori- t
ginal may he fcen at Andrew Hadf g s umirttla jip, 1
JVo. corner of Chefnut and Four lb fireett, tlie ob
h place where these powders are to bs h.ld, with
proper directions for the use ctf them.r—Price two
dollars.
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this rrnirdy jbe
mg so great for so many dangerous disorders, »y
pcrf:)ta wishing to be provided with'thofe povjjeis,
will please to apply very foo:i, as the
hind is rot very krge, endit is doubtful it frra
Ung time, or if ever any others-Am? w:h bo itn
.ported, the secret remaining only in the hands of
the inventor, in Europe, and nc7er l eing coman
nicat«d to, or discovered by any oth«r person.
N. Bln yellow and putr.d fevers, thispow
der mull be take» ths or at haft the third
day.
Wethe fubferibers, durirg the late sickness in
this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Hr. Mahy for hi-. m:dical assistance, we do here
by certi y, that by a certain powder, cal'ed the
fovdre Unique, we were perfeflly recovered from
the said (atal sickness, aud from an experience of
the happy tiierfls of the above mod valuable medi
cine, coniider it our duty to make thefcme known,
for the benefit of eur fellow.cit,zens;
Margaret Jones,
My! us O 'Condor,
JclTe Turner,
. CKriften Rebecca Dow, <
Catbenn Apple,
Ann Grover,
William Bills,
David Vfilliams, carpenter,
William T. Donaldfon, mall-maker.
Mr. Mahy s well known Plailler, for all kind of
wounc.s and fores, to be had at the above direc
tion, No. 131, Chefnut ftrsitc.
sugu«. 8 lawff
OKVJiK.IL very iituatioas tor Sum-
O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Prankford Road ;
the lots will be made to ft tit the purchasers.—
These fituatior.9 are conl'tdered jn point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any nearthecity, "i
and the road known to be fafe and good at all i
seasons «f the year. The title indifpttta'ole—A
flan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub- I
fcriber, who wilt make known the terms on ap- •
plication to,him at his office No. 124 South i
Fourth Street. 1
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. !
'nay 1. ;tawtf 1
John Haines iff Wm. Jones, |
BEG leave to inform their'friends and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-paitn<ir(hip
in th* SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in ,
future be tarried on onder the firm of
HAINES isf JONES,
n Market Ureet, No. r.32, one door above the
corner of Fourth,—where they prcfutne (at lead 1
to hopo) that their attention to, and knowledge in 1
bufipefj, their determination to serve on the heft 1
terms, and (heir knowrc attachment as Native A
mcricans to the Government aiid CmilHtution of
r their Country, will entitle them to the encourage- -
' mcntof a generous public. Although thsy can
not boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their sianufaflure lbs!
be inferior to hone in this city,
june 26. tu'hstf
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels > of Btef of baft quality, put
sohalf Barrels 5 up with carefor longvoyages.
ico Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of ConneiSUcut Tongues.
' WINES.
35 Pipfisof Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half casks of Cherry
3i> Casks of Lilbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
TO6 Barrels of Condemned, and
23 Boxes of bell Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
mav 4 eodtf
James C. iff Snml. 14'. Fijher,
No. Arch-Stkeet,
Have jor Sale
. 200 Calks bed refined Petre
Bell London Window Glals from lobv i tc
11 by 10
j Ditto Glass Ware in Casks alTorted canijftiii;;
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
GlalTes, Goldcts, See.
ALSO,
A few Bales of rted, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons.
June 17
"castor oil
Is much wanted ; Those who havs
r it to dispose qf will find a ready sale
by applying to any of the Apotheca
ries.
ce? A Quarterly Meeting of the
- Carpenter's Company will be held at their
s Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock, j
JOSEPH WORRELL,
Warren. !
o£tober li.
advertisement.
r
WHEREAS J**: Oummismt C* Go. la"e oi
the city r-r >■'[>} v!et J.; , rn r hant», have
ovor nil..their■ real, perfcnal and
mixrd, to the Hhfrribers, Tor the benefit of all
their creditor?, who fiaft (uhferibe the said r.flign
ment>vith*n fix wontba from the date hercof. '
I' NOTICE IS HERTvKV f \
who are indebted ro the said ettate, that they are
required to make immediate payment of their rcf
*" pedive accounts, to the Afljgnees, at their office.
s rio. 62, Dock ftrec", in failure whereof
~ will be inflituted for the recovery of filch debts a«.
are not acctrdiogly. ,
John Travis,
'John Waddington,
* Jama Jay lor,
Cornelius Comegys^
y t3 mwftrD J
TO BE SQLI>,
' ti*rtc of an indented Dutch .)ervant BOY
r t. who has ten years Mx' serve. He h? huA.thc I j
e feaall pox aud meafleo, is a<sUve, hcarcy ai d ftrwj-. J ]
an<l fit for house w<r.% in town cr ccuatry. Ecr | c
further information, ewquir: of the i riuttr. (
y _ a ■ „ | c
d FORSALE^
•* For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub-; <
fcribeis, on Walnut street Wharf, '
h 'l9 r caflcs ot nails aHoried
" 23 bales sf fail car.vafs, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 cdki yell w ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each |
''' London particula?)
s > lortamaiket j VArte.
* Tctieriffedo. in Ire:.s..n ' y
Old Pert <4o. in hh ~
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimitiet, Mjflinets &c.
alTorted for the Welt-India uijiket
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesar.d 10 coilsof cordage 1
j Writing fiates, iiik Hands and pre(fes
20 purcheons Timaiea rum
.1 bale (earning twine
160 bundles fheatt.ing paper
Nicklin is" Griffith.
Ie april 7 tuth&f.tf
Bengal Goods,
1- CONSISTING GF
a, BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Colfas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas, Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muffins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hoglbeads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
o[ For Sale, en reasonable terms, by
c- J°b" Ctxtig,
No. 12, Dock-llreet.
July 14 mwstf
m To be Sold, at private Sale,
; A Plantation and Ti ai of Land
th V>(marfh townlhip, i# thecounty of Mei.tgom
y, ery, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and oa
ill the public road leading from Plymouth by the
A Broad-Ax tavern toward Horlham, and about
b- one quarter of a mile from said tavern s all.
p- about the fame dilhnce from the Skippaek roa<
th and about the fame ditiance from the late res:
dence of Jatne® 'Morris esq. dectafed. It I
bounded by land 6 of Anthony Morris esq. Ja-
COblteifF ar.d De'.u eiler. About teH acres at'f
good watered meadow, about 15 or2o<are ur
der cltver, avd about 3J acres are well timbered 1
'. c ' The'brtidings on the above farm conftft of a
|P two-Cury ilone dwelling-house, a large ftor.c
in baru and flone fpriiig-houfe. There is a;fo or
the premises a young orchard of about 150 ap |
pie-trees.
Ie 'J h'r farm has great advant.ws of water, as
there is an excellent r ever-failing flream paffinf.
in by tile house and barn, in fu h a manner as t
fopply the l>ine as well as every field with a fu.
fieten: quantity.
The spring over which the ftrritig-houfe is
e " buiit, is excellent water, and js alio very near
I 1" and convenient to the dwelliitg hpufe.
The situation of. this place is healthy and in
°, good neighborhood, and is near to several oil
feient places of v.'or(hip, and within the dij
tance of half a mile from two grill and fa<v
mills, also netr litne-kiku. ,
This farm will be fold together or divided in
ut to two parts, as may suit the purchasers. Alii
:s. a two-ftorv stone house wirh a barn and carriag."
house and lot of land lituate on Chefnut-hijl. I'
is a very high and healthy fituatipr), and com
mands a very extenlive and peau'iful prdfpetft-
PofTeffion of partof the house may be had im
mediately.
For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water-ftrept Philadelphia, or to
at CHRISTOPHER HETJDRICK,
on Chesnut-BM.
Chefnut-hill, a»guft 2a«tt
Bank of Pennfvlvania.
THE Bank of Penr.fylvania t is removed to Ger
mantowD?—where the Uuftr.ef* will he tranfa&fed
to-morrow, in the Union School House.
JONATHAN SMITH, Calhier.
NOT/ (TE.
Bank of North America,
Augnjl i%ih, 1798.
r -T»HOSE Perf®ns who hvve Js®tcßoi Bills to pay
to X at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
n-' cover directed to the refpe&ive payer lodged
ne in the Poft-Office every Monday untH the return
of the citizens.
RICHARD IVELLSyCoJt.Hr.
rn- H() ort
SOUTHWARK.
QBoti[ 8, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, That the Comnuflioners of
}<; tiie X>iftri«ft of Southwark have removed
their Hall to the uftial place, commonly
known by the name ol James Litlf's School.
Houfe, in confeqtience «f the rapid decline
of the Epidemic Fever, especially in the
vicinity thereof.
Byordrrof ih• Fl'.ard of Cemtrj/Jtmer
k - Wm. LINNARD, Prelident.
Attest,
William Pf.nrose, Clerk,pre tem.
o£t- birr g *t
This Day is Published,
/>ND FOR mm j. FKNKO, I S
AN ADDRESS
. To ilie Peop/e of Maryland,
ON the origin, progreft and prefcut Cite of
French aggreftiotl, with a fetch of the infamm,,
attempts to degrade 'hr.Government of the United
Stages, and sonic refleelioiis on the la'e proceedings
>n Gougr#; written the last of April" j n the pre
ieityeur, by a Member of the House of Repirefen
, * iune.i
To be Sold, at Public Sale, "
On the Premffcs,
0" TuefJjy the isd day of QGiber, 1798, at
hap pajl two o'clock, in the afternoon,
Several very elegant Situations fur
RETREATS,
Tnree and an half miles from the Ceurt h>ufe near
iran./crd road, being part of ths fublcriber's
eiiate.
Fitefc situations are confidered'in
point of h-.4i.-h, beauty and cl-ganoe, equal to asy
near the city ; commending a very rxtenfive view
i °f the IbippiKjf m the harbtur, the
C ttv, H irrov/g.Tte, Frankfort, and fcveral eleranc
I country feats*
j Any pcrfo:i defiroiis of viewing the
I 5 ounof, V ill pk-afe aprly ro HE NUT HAINES
lon the picajif.,, cr to the fuhfirib-.r, at Mr. Rich
j ardet * co/F<?t houfc, Cenuantfiwti.
I The terms, which will be eafv, will be
, made known at the time »t fa!,:.
j . r Jxouid the weather prove bad on the a
| b".ve WMKioned fcy./lMrtaU will take plate 01, th,-
»«# »air<toy-,.-.t :!',ei-mc limit.
V. MACFHERfQW.
c-clpbcr 9. .
o'pi ta!,
Nr. r ■ ■ . r 9 rno. J, ir 9 s.
0 P«toB wita t.n .nfe&wus diieafc, can be
admitted into this houfc ; it is therefore ear
: neftly recommended t<j the citizi.is, nat to fend
or i ting any fach patient to the gate, who U ill
w.th the prevailing fever. Severalp. rfons luvin--
been (eat here improperly, is the reakn of eivin"
this caption, 9 "
By Order of the "> , - T _.
Sitting Managers, j 1 ANCIS filGG[tfS,Sfet»'£
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from tVj Gaard House in N»w-
Caflle, this morning, Stfthek Bowden, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
Stat... He is about 3 S years of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair complexion, light hsir. blue eyes,
born m England, and by trade a Brichl .yer. Prier
_ to the jth of June, the date of his enliiimsnt, ha
resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable ha
will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend the said defertcr, and secure him in any
jail Within the United States, shall be entitled to
the above reward.
n a "B ARTON, Capt. Marines.
New Caflle, 0& 8.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. *
DESERTED from my Detachment at Borden
town this day, a Marine, by name Gnrge
Rtdnan, a Native of Ireland about 15 years of aga
fivi feet eight or nine inches high, dark compac
tion, biaci hair tied; Hack eyes well n-.ads and
quarrelfouke, when in liqwor is fond of fingin'g— Had
• on a blue Teaman's j ickett light pantaloons, cot
-1 ton Stockings, round Hat, and had 1 nder his Pan
: taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches,
i Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
tcr to the Marine Camp, shall receive the abov«
Reward.
O&ober ri, 1798 ? HEN , RY A WILLIAMS,
' S It. Marines
" PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept from John D. Coxi,
Esquire, prefidcP.t of the court of Oyer" and
. i T 1 miner and general goal delivery for th.* trial of
; »il capital and other offences in the eounty o£
; I Buck?; :ni Hknrt Wtnkoop ar.d Fhascij
Mu*»Ar, judges of the fame cotrt—A c,-nrt of
: Oyer and Termifier, and general goal delivery,
; will be held at Newtowa, in the said county of
But ks, on Monday the sth ol November next.
All thc-fe who will prosecute against the prisoners
in thegoa! of said county, are rrtfuired to be then
and there to prosecute againA tiiem as shall be juft—
and all the judices of the peac-, coroners ahd con
', ft* hies .'within the said county, •re required to be
r then and there, in their proper persons, with their
rolls, records, inqujfitions and eiaminations and
- ot! er their remembrances, to do those things which
to their offices belong, in that behalf to be
done. Sic. DANIEL THOMAS, flicriff.
, _oa.4, 3taw
" FLOUR F()RSALE~~"
By the Sulfcrib'rs,
Deliverable at any of the ports on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
tho poll will be attended to.
Le-vi llollingiitiorih £s° Son.
august 28. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER iS HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Comer of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreets, on the Commons,
where lie wi!i receive and execute the ortfers of
his friends and wholesale enflomers, with ufua!
. att*n:i<tn St expedition during the prevalence of
d the present Epidemic, where it has not made it»
appearance this season. nor during any of tho
years >
aupuft IS fl
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of.the Schr. Sincerity
Montcith Master, from Laguira,
v C»N*ISTIPfC OF
Fencgas of Cocoa
J 400s lb. of Flora Indigo
n 4 Packages of Goat SJuns
By JVillings & Francis*
No. Eleventh. Greet.
July 1: dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
f Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newefl and j-aoft acprovsd patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
" AN» TOR SALE BV
Y AL-x. J. Miller & Co.
I- No. 64, South Front ftreec.
err.ay 18. §
e FOR SALE, bv
JokN Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, C.'ir.SKUT STftFET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of liigli proof and fine flavour
jaly 19 JRelief of the Poor. j
THE nnderrtent'iored perfors are ap- !
pointed by concurrent resolutions of the
bards of manager! of the Marine anu City
Hospitals and guardians of the poor for t';e
purpefe of relieving such of their fellow ci
tizen?. *.'hofe situations render it improper
for them to remove to the encampments.
John Kehr, Pettr Barker,
Peter Mierctcn, John Hutehinfon,
Alexander Steel, Willtnm Stevenfo»t
Thomas AllHore, John James,
Edward Garrtguei, Thomas Saver j,
Stephen Maxjield, Rhea King,
Nathan A Smith, Paschal HelU'-gfvuortb
■Daniel Doughty, John Teas
By order if the board of of
the Marine and City Ilofpilal.
Wm. JONES, President.
Attejl,
Timothy Paxfon', Clerk.
By order of the board of Guardians of
tbepo r.
PETER MIERCKEN, President.
THE committee appointed by the above
reiolotien for the relief of such petfor.s,
whose lituationa render it impiadlicable to
remove their families to the tents, being rea
dy to inter upon the important duties of
their appni; tment ; inform the public that
tKey will met! on the 2d, 4.111 and 6th days
bfeacli wotk, from 3 to 6 o'clock, at the
J-enatc Chamber in the Mate h ;ufe, whe:e
' tha indigent of the above class will be re
lieved, upon producing certificate? from' out
or mot' rcfpedtable inhabitants win conti
nue to refi e in the city or suburbs, that
thc-r families arc in such a situation as to
render it improper to remove them to the
tents.
The committee being sensible that no en-
deevours will be lacki-g in the committees
the encampmem s, to make
the temporary refid»nce of the poor as in
habitant. who removed to them as comforta
ble as pcffible ; and believing that the re
moval of thr'm from the city, may, under
Providence, be the means of flopping the
pievai'ing disorder } are defnous as much as
poflible to s encourage it ; and therefore moil
e3rncftly rtqueft tlitir fellow citizens to re
commend n< ne to them, but such families,
who from sickness Or other important con-
impioper cbjedts to receive
the pub! c benevolence at the encampments.
Ed. GAIIRIGUES, Paf.deirt.
Peter Barker, Secretary•
Philadelphia* gth mo. 19th, 98.
New Encampment.
THE Committee who sup rintend the
encampment at Mailer's Flace near the Mill
Pond, on the Getmantown road, about two
miles from the city, rcfptclftilly inform their j
country friends that they (land in need ofan
immediate supply of vegetables and draw, j
for the use of thi fe diltrefTed citizens who J
are flying from the present calamity. The '
committee flr.tter therrfelves that the fame j
liberi'i ty will be found in tSe farmer,.and o
theis. K> l.ipp'y this encampment," as has;
bcti. t:> at o;i the Commons near Schuyl
kill, b' 1 having the fame laudable objedt
in vievr.
John Imkrp ~l
Jon. Ro l efon i- Committee.
If ice IV. Morris J
Camp, Mailer's Place,
Sejtember tc, '98..
(Ej* 1 HE committee are happy in having
it in their power to inform thofc citizens
wi o are not in a situation to provide for
tlxmfelves, and are defirous'to remove from
the city or liberties, that they are now pre
pared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
' the encampment on Matter's Piace, in the
Northern Liberties where such perfans will
be furnifned with comfortable apartments
and neceflary provisions daring the present
calamity.
* 4 *
TEtiTS.
TB E committee of the guardians of the
poor, appointed for the fuperintendance of
the'tents on Schuylkill, acknowledge with
, gratitude and fincerc fatisfadtion, the gene
rru- » Stfality of donations they have expe
rienced. It i« with deference to public o
p-ni and public compassion, that they in
form their feeling fellow citizens, that they
have near seventy pregnant women, who
will, ere they leave the encampment, (land in
not only need, but neeeflity ot chathing for
tht ir infants.—To mothers, whose hearts
can beat with fondnefs to their offspring—
to those amiable young ladies, wbofe bed
and benevolent affections are extended to
the smiling babe—to fathers who*have it in
th.ir power, this refpedtful request is ad
drefiird-
By order of the committee,
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman.
October 3. .1798.
Artillcrijls Pocket Companion.
Jull Published,
A SYSTEM for t#e Discipline of the Artil
lery of the United Stairs «f America, or
tht Young A'rtilleriflj Pocket Companion,
By Colonel STEVENS,
An officer in the Artillery through the whole
of tht Ute 1 revolution, and since in the militia—
price 1 dollar and 121-1 cents. Sold by ROB
ERT CAMPiiELL £> C<>. {lately removed
from No 40, South Second Street, to No. 30,
Chefui't (trerl) wko have far file, a very gen
eral affortmciir of Bjolcs anti Stationary 011 tht
*«ry lowest terms, by >»holefale and mail.
_arfiiHt_' *3t
> COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
PBllADlLrill.t, Asguft 30, 1795.
TKS hufiiicf' of the CuSom Hooie will from
»»iis Way be traufaflrl at Chcl'.tr, c'uriiig the con
tinuance of thi fever which Mw prcVaiis in this
«i:y ; ar.4 ffl canfequEiice th.{sot, the nu-rcbants
arc hereby notified, t.'iit paycacui of ail bond* U-r
duties to the United States, }ayai>!eat thi? office,
may be matic cither at Che Cuiiom Hrul'e in Chel
ter, or at the Bank of the United Sutei.
Collator's Office, >
fhiladelfhia, Aug. jo. j
j LATEST
. : jforeigu
J [_By the Ship Nancy, Captain Goodrich, 33
days ft 6m Cork.~\
' r LONDON, August 18.
I The Indiamen taken up at transports,
are under failing orders. They take out
the 10th regiment of foot, and some other
troops* in all 1500 men, and are expedted to
touch at LifboD for more. They go out
nrder ponvoy of the Tigre, of 80 guns,
Commanded by Sir Sidpey Smith.
. The British force in Portugal is to be
' kept up, and a new co.nmander in chief sent
out to replace General Stewart, who some
' time ago came home on account of his
health.
Captain Retalick r 3 gone up the Medi
terranean as captain of the Portuguele Ad
, miral's ship, in order to teach the Portu
'' guefe the British fignats. They confill of
five fail of the line, and are gone to reinforce
Admiral Nelson.
Admiral Lord Bridport, in the fcoyal
e George, with the Glory and Impeteux,
'' failed from Torbav on to resume
3 the command of the chsnnel fleet.
l f The Dutch let in the Texel, which is
' nearly ready for sea, conliits of twenty-five
lC ship*, from 50 to 76 guns each, and thir
s teen (lout frigates. Admiral Duncan has,
e no by this time resumed the com
c mandof the Britifli fle« of that port, with
a refpcAable reinforcement.
August 30.
Mods. Niou ha» at length agreed upos a
0 general exchange of prisoners- If w4 re
£ ciive back all that we have loft, in exchange
for an equal number, we lhall retoin upon
v the exphanfe, near 15,000 of the enemy.
ES Letters fr»m Portsmouth slate, that the
c East India fhfps which had oti board 3,500
troops, and were to have failed with the
J " firft fair wind, have disembarked thsm, in
*" puifuince of orders from the admiralty. It
- r is fuppoftd that these troops will be imme- I
ie diately ff<;t to Ireland, fhottld circumfiances j
make that measure necessary, as they are ;
all in complete rtadinefs, and the Didlator
of 64 guns, which was about to proceed
s » to .Weymouth, to lay as a guardfhip, during |
the king's refidenee there, hai beca coun- j
e term.xnded, for the purpose, it is imagined, ,
of transporting some of the troops to Ire
land.
August 31.
A French paper of the 26th instant, en
titled Le Clef du Cabinet, received in town !
yellerday, has the following important de
e ; tail, which we can fay obtains very geberal
II .belief in the highest and bed informed cir
-0 cles. [■?««•] |
r j The article is dated from Frankfort, and
1 states,
, j That by advices from Trieste atid likf
j } wife from another port in Italy, an account
c j had been received of an action having taken 1
; ] place between the Engiifh and French fleets !
- | in the Mediterranean. The circumltances '
s j which are particularly detailed, are as sol
-! low :
t "Oh the 17th Mefiidor (July sth) the
hostile fleets met in the morning. A very
close and warm engagement ensued, which
, lasted (he whole day, and ended at night
without vidtory having declared on either
fide. The two following days, the 6th and
7th of July, were calm, and the flee's lay
in fight repairing their damages. On the
Bth, the Englith fleet being favoured by an
1 easterly wind, fuccceded in cutting off eight
French ships of the line, with which a very
close and desperate adtion immediately took
place. It ended, by a vidtory
declaring in favour of the British, the whole
: eight ships beirfg taken or funk.
I " The adtion was extremely bloody on
1 both fides, the crew of the L'Orient (Bu
; onaparte's ship) having b«en repeatedly re
inforced by draughts from other ships which
were not so clofelv engaged. The L'Ori
ent last funk, as well as fir H. Nelson's
. ship, (the Vanguard.) The British admiral,
p who was badly wounded, was removed on
( board the Culloden, where he had the fatif
fadtion of receiving Buonaparte and bi3
whole etat-major, about two hours before
he (fir Horatia) died of his wounds."
.Such is the detail of this article in Le
Clef du Cabinet, to which, as we have al
, ready observed, great credit is attache s here,
! and which seems to be too circumftascial to
. be wholly the fidtion of a French editor, for
, which he would be liable to pay the forfeit.
_ of his life. We leave it to our readers,
however, to form their own opinions and
j conclusions.
i The article likewise Rates the English
force very corredtly—twelve 74 gun (hips,
one 64, and a 50, besides frigate-.
We yesterday evening received, by ex
press, Paris pipers to the 29th inft. [Sun.]
The Parisians have at length received ir»
telligenco of the arrival of Buonaparte at
Alexandria. No official information of this
fadt has yet been publilhed, ner are any ad
ditional circumstances known at Paris res- :
pedticg the destination of the expedition.
An aiticlein a Frankfort paper copied into
L Echo de la Republique Frarcoife of the j
28th inft. contains an account of seven
ships of th; line, seven frigates and a brig,
part of Admiral Nelson's squadron, having
from the course the admiral fleered, reached
Alexandria on the 38th June, ten daya be
fore the squadron ef Buonaparte arrived at
that p'>rt, and not meeting with the French
fleet there, having put to sea. This intelti- !
gence is Hated in a letter from Conftaoti- 1
nople, and is said to have been brought there '
by an Imperial vessel which left Alexandria 1
on the 30th June, and which was the bearer 1
of official difpatthes on the fubjedt.
I _ This intelligence, we underhand, recon
firmed by dispatches which have been re
ceived by the East-India company. The
Imperial vefTel which brought it, failed from
Alexsndria on the 30th of Jufce, and after
wards saw the fame English fquadroa bear- 1
ing towards Caeida.
II
-PHILADELPHIA,
' TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 16.
i THE Subscriber prematurely borne
forward to a iituation bf high refpon
' ' Ability, hopes the candour and con
sideration of his friends, not dwelling on
- the errors arid wanderings of his career,
- will find for them an apology in the
heat and inexperience of Touth. It
hath pleased Heaven to put a period to
' the labours of him who had for ten
- years conducted to public admiration, the
- Gazette of the United States. Awa»
1 kened from mental distress, at the aflli<st
e ing bereavement, his fuccdTor feels him
. felf overcome in the consideration of the
r weighty task which has devolved on him:
" He is but too conlcioas that he stands
in " the breach the angry angel made, 1 "
c only to render it the rrori conspicuous
: a breach, alas ! not foop. to be filled.
- Notwithstanding the - flattering opinions
1 of friendfliip, which ever watchful for
r ' indications on which to ground the
: most favourable predictions, often cre
s ates them by the mere force of imagina
-1 tion, lie is fearful that his friends will
, with more difficulty diftinguiih the mens
, ahnormh fapietis, crajfaque Minerva, than
) the unattempered fire and indif<;retion of
youthful inexperience: To them and
the Public, however he pledges the best
exertions of that portion of judgment
and of talents, which nature has allotted
him: For the rectitude of his intentions,
he can with confidence make an high
appeal. Immergjng to aftive life, at a
period big with events of immense mag
nitude—a period at which the world
seems trembling on a point,—oll the
mighty turn of which rests happiness or
woe, it will be his highest aim to strength
en the existing barriers round the pub
lic weal, and to contribute in railing
new pillars to the decaying edifice of
public virtue.
.It may be of some interefi: to those
who look for a continuance of entertain
ment and information through the me
dium of this Gazette, to the lead
ing features by which it is proposed to
diftinguiih the publication: On this
head the Subscriber thinks fit to be
brief; and here happily he reflects with
pleasure that his course is already so plain
ly marked out /or him, as to leave little
to be said, and few new fields to be ex
plored.
It was his happy lot to be blefled with
parents exemplary in their lives, and
in their end. Hence is derived the
lweeteft conlolation for their loss. It
was their fortune while living to con
tract the esteem of that part of man
kind whole good opinion is most valu
ble. Hence naturally resulted the fincer
eft sensibility at that dispensation which
removed them to a brighter world. Of
them most truly may it be faid—Mul
tis Mi bonis flebllis occiderunt.
To point out the cause of this efti-.
mation, is to illustrate the precise objeft
of his highest ambition. That line of
conduct which has been found, after a
long course of experience to have con
traced general admiration and applause,
could not be .deviated from without in
curring the just charge of raftinefs.
And this .brings him to state,—That his
constant endeavor will be to conduct this
paper in such manner, (particularly in re
gard to the leading principles of its poli
tics) as to leave the reader as little sensi
ble as poflible, that it has passed into
new hands.
He begs leave to offer the most heart
felt gratitude for the generous counte
nance and iupport he has received, and
the most lively and ever-living recollec
tion of the private friendfhip he has ex
perienced ; hoping to bring about the
time when, more than at prefect, he may
be able to derive that in some degree
from personal merit, which now he at
tributes to a kind refpeft and esteem
iA - the virtues of a departed parent.
JOHN WARD FENNO.
*** A multitude of letters of business
and of friendfhip, demand and will receive i
the immediate attention of the fuVfcriber.
He begs leave to offer in apology for those
neglecls ivbich have been experienced t the
scene of severe dijlrefs in which he has <
been enrxlsped. During the life of Mr. 1
Cujhing, the late fuperintendant of the I
paper, he finds a partial attention war '
paid. Buiftnce his death and t/je sickness \
of my eldest brother, and tvuo ethers of the
family, and during my Lig detection at a
dijav.ee from home by indifpoftton % this 1
department necejfarily experienced a total
neg/efl. The other departments of tlx ,
.£- , •
budnefs, *t)frbi/gh the generous fidelity,
and contempt of danger, dtfplayed by the
- journeymen and apprentices in the office)
have been condufled in a manner exceeding
the mojl /anguine expectations. Their gene
rous facrifices to their love and veneration
for my late father,, jajlify in my opinion
this public acknowledgment from me.
Letters addrejfed, through the medium
of the pfl office, will reach me, at Mr.
young's, Whitehall, inhere I Jhall for the
present remain.
JOHN WARD FENNO.
1 _ Printing Work,
° n Of, Every Kind\
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
e NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gazette of the
UnitfdStates,
And forwarded agreeabjy todirec
e tion, any where in the vicinity of
. the city.
oa. 13. dtfi
s •
0- The Subscribers to this Gazette
- residing in, and near Germantown,
• are respectfully, informed, that their
s papers will be forwarded, (daily J to
r Mr. Samuel Richardet, in German
£ town ; where a list of their names
- will be left.
\ Dr. Yeatman's
f Anti-pestilential and anti-Bilious Pre
, 1 fervative Pills,
r ARE earnestly recommended at this Season,
*L\. against the Fevers that prevail. Prepared
1 and fold only by the Subfciiber, who feels it ne
j. ceflary to embrace thr*opportunity of acquaint
ing the Public, that he received a regular edu
t cation in the different Branches of
1 ; Pby sick, Surgery, Midwifery,
.Under his Father, and othtfr eminent men in
the cities of London and Briflol, and (in the
1 course of twenty-eight years} has seen the mi
-1 ny good effefls of this incomparable medicine,
in Bilious,. Jaundice, or Hepatic cases, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, Lues-Venerea, Scurvy, Worm ca
-1 fes, Malignant and other Diseases, proceeding
from acrimony and obftrudlion.
; THE PILLS
Are prepared according to true medical prin
' ciples, and may be fafely taken by the moll de
. licate In boxes <f a quarter dollar, and half
r a dellar, with directions, and fealed'with hi«
> crest, cypher, and motto. None elfc are Ge
f nuioe.
N. B. The anti-pestilential pre
, fervative, was used with great fuceefs at Lon
don, Varfcilles, Bristol, and other Cities,
' when they were refpefhvely visited with the
. PLAGUE.
In bottles of a quarter dollar and half a dol
lar, with Directions, and the Corks fe.iled as
> .above.
; CHARLETON YEATMA.V.
South Eaftcorherof Lombard and Second streets*
New Market.
1 cftober a x aw . tn
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws tivici a week, every Monday & Tuesday
IUCKETS For Sale, Seven Dellara each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
1 and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are kept for examination i'.nd
rtgiftering in this, City of Waihington No. 2.
and Paterfon Lotteiies and information whera
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
thorised by law in any of the States ps the
Union.
Stati or the Wheels
One prize of 10,000 dollars ' 10,000
Five 4,00® 30,000
Two a,coo 4,000
Nine i,oco 9,c00
Nineteen 50a 9.500
Forty-four 200 8,800
With a fn<l proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets will fooß rife, particularly on account of the
live 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the laitday of drawing.
£s° Note, the buftnefs of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above offico
may 24 w&stf
FOR SALE,
SALISBURY.
' A aod well improved farm, coPtain
xjL upwards of twenty-five hundred acres of 1«*
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to grate,
and every kind of grain; there are now op« hun
dred acres of Timothy meadow on it, perhaps not
excelled, from which, I have cut this year between
one huadred and eighty, and two hundred tons ot*
hay j upwards of three hundred acres mora of this,
land may be converted into meadow, equal to that
already made, tha greater part of -which may be
wa;efed at a i'mall expence. There are «ii this
land, a commodious two story dwelling-Route,
completely finifned, with ten rooms and a passage,
eight t>f the rooms have fire places; a pprtico in
front, fifty ieet in length, ana eight wide; a large
.paled garden, a well ot excellent water in the yaruj
alio a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with
lheds at the tides and ends fufficient to hoid sixty
heap or black cattle, a well conttrucled stable, fut
ficient to hoid twenty horses ; with every other
building that may be convenient or uieful for a
family ; upwards of thrive hundred apple tree#
(juTt beginning to bear) of chol'ca gralted fruit,
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dume
fon tr«es, upwards ot two thouiand hearing peach
trees. About one kurthof the.!«nd Ucleared, abd
under good fence ; the paf.urc lands ar« well raken,
with red clover and other valuable grass. 'J he re
mainder is in woods and generally well timbered*
The wh'jlc is weil watered, having several constant
iprings ; and two ft reams running through differ
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a fgiall coun~
try grilt naiU r anit a saw mill. The purchaser can
have immediate poffelhon, and may be accommo
dated with tweuty valuable hold negroes, with
horses, black cattle, sheep, hog*, and every neces
sary farming uten&l. Salilbury is situated in cx
calient neighbourhood, ami remarkable healthy,
is twenty-fix miles by uitafuremciit from Alexaat
dria, about twenty miles from Potomack bridge at
tjie Liltle Fails, and not more than twenty-five
fro;ii the city ot Wafliington, and on the p»ft road
from Alexandria to Winchester, A ffpall part of
the purchase money,wiii be required in hand; one*
twa, and three years credit will be given for the
remainder.
Mr. Z-ccheus Collins o» Philadelphia will give,
any gentlemen who to him an account ot the
situation ol thi» pla«K». >or further particulars apy
ply ts» the fubferiber on the preirtifes.
LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax cout:y
iKptcnkijta? 179^.BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. wd!
felf c
s£sftcripk
- The j
NEW-YORK, October 15, \nj
By the ship Argus, capt Ward, in 26 days L ' l
from Bourdeaux. °f
Having been fuccefsful in the receipt of
French papers up to the lith of Septem
ber we (lull be able to give many inter
ePiihg- articles. Capt. Ward, who is a towal
well informed ma", has communicated the accor
following', on which the'-Aioft implicit re- m^ an
llance may be placed. <w "'
r , _ more
.Copio-H Extracts from the Papers to t | )e ; r
morrow. State
Capt.'Ward informs tis, that the three focia'
frigate), which had landed 1100 men in Ire- defen
land, had returned, and put into Bourdeaux patrii
on their way to Rochfort, from whence an&f
they failed—th y were under command of the g
Savorv. Two other divisions, one from cunfe
Dunkirk, and the other from Brest, had the d
failed on the fame business, but it was not the
known whe her they had succeeded. mcafi
Savory's division, befiues the 1100 men, and t
landed 4,000 (lands of arms with a ritim- by f<
ber of pi.'cesof cannon, and 4000 complete (late,
dresses so- troops. This news was com n'j- their
ricated to Capt. Ward by the commandant Exec
(Savory; who had on boa-d a" Engli.li pi- purg
quet-guard, which thev had taken y fur- toroi
prise J and a number of horses, &c. a pre- into
feivi from an Irifti bifl'.op, for the ranfoin of the
his Son, whom they had alio taken. critic
Capt Ward informs us alfo f that ihe not- ptibJ;
ed Dr. L"gan, who foroe time since lelt unlel
Philadelphia,' in on board the (hip Perfever- I betit
ance, of New-York, bound to Philadelphia, j men!
It is said he is the bearer of Triplicates of pjibl
tbe Frefich minilter's propoGtions to this tlie 1
government. It is hoped this I.ogan's cm- lms <
baffy has been for good purpfe, ! "
In a Paris paper of the 28th August, We confi
find the following article—We leave it to the t
our readers to make their own comments s may
Par'<s. August 28 —No 253. d,rci
" The Ameri vn envoy, of whom we wt ;
have fp->ken in our number of 251, and in *
which he is designated by the letters L—n, P d >
is a Dr. Logan—He is not direClly envoy of P eo l
the United States, as we have given to un- 1
derftand ; but, is on'y envoy of those of
the United States, who are .avowedly in the '° on
interest of France. Dr Logan has pafTports f [* l
iigned V the Vice President, Jefferfon, and U 'J U
Judge M'^ean— He is alio beareV of let- P r ® ;
ters from M. Jefferfon for Merlin, President c .
of the Dire&ory, and Talleyrand Perigord. ven J
The embargo on American teffels was 31 1
raiftd the third of September. tow '
Thete were about 17 American veflels at a ™ u
Bourdeaux at the time; 6of which failed trll)
in company with the Argus. Ihe Hamo
nia, of Hamburgh ; brig Vary, and fchr.
Eglantine, for this port. c
It is a little remarkable that th« Arrete, raif-
Ing the emearifo on American vessels, was or- l^ on
dered, by the directory not to be printed. lvo;
We (hall give this arrete to-morrow, 'vithaco- 'i
py ef which Captain Ward has favored w pori
The vnuuf in.F.C3-P £, e are again held in <
a (tare ef and were ordered :o foin
their refpeiiire corps immediately* fer defend .
ing the republic against the emperor, as hoftili- '
tics were CaiJ to have commenced. 151 '
A Faris paper of August ,i'» (f days later
than tlut by v.ay of Ireland) fays, " all the Sch
German papers are compelled to refradl what j
they kid »f t!u< pretended action he: ween Buo
jiaparteand Nehrn ; nnri to acknowledge that
the former is arrived at Alexandria, ar.d tJ.e w
latter entered ir.tnthe Road of Syracnfe. ire
C-ipt. Ward read a Paris paper of the
12th September, which contained a number
of conje&urcsj refpeding Buonaparte. It
woul > seem from this, th-t the news by '
way of Cork, is nt to be depended on. '
A Paris paper of the 3d SeDtember, con
tains the United States law (if the 7th July,
declaring the treaty between France aud
America null : and the appointment of Ge- 1 K
ueral Washington.
Capt. Ward, of the Argus, orr the 18'h 3
September, was beaded by the Phaeton and
Triton frigates, who informed, that they
had recaptured the St. Tammany, of Fre
dericklburg. bound to Liverpool, which had
been captured by the. Vengeance privateer.
On the 24th September, he was boarded
by two Letters of Marque (the Forbes and
Charlotte,) bound to the coast of Guinea ;
they had, on the I9';h, recaptured the !'o
ntona, of London, frotn Norfo'k to Lon- h:i
don, which bad been prcvionOy tukes by ca
the fame privateer. Captain Prince of the m
Forbes, put on boar J the Argus, two oft- ry
eery and four men, who belonged to the re
privateer.—'l!hey have arrived here.
The above frigates, a few days before,
hiid captured the Flora privateer, of h;
guns, and the Mercury as ?o .;un , oot 12 ni
hours from Bourdeaux. Ttiey had a num- ei
her of Americans on board, whom, they tl
said, they were going to deliver to the Con
sul at London.
On the 12th of September, the brig Ma
ry, of Philadelphia, arrived at Bourccsux, [ lc
a prize to the Parachute privateer, of 24 ' g
guns v The Mary to Hamburgh. ! li
The brig John, confirms the landing of j 1;
about 1500 me:; in Ireland, and adds: that j 2
their artillery had fallen iiito the hands of 11
the English. ''
The (hip Pearl, Lattimore, 50 days from 1
Lrith, arrived yellerday—.Oft. 6, spoke
the brig John, from Liverpool to Eder.ton.
frtiled" with the Cork OA. n, fpokc
ihip Charlotte, from Cotk to New.York. v
I'he Sarah from Dublin, ard the Albe- {
jwirle, from Hamburgh, are below _ f
Paris, Atiguli I.
X.ptti.rs fretfl fay»—" The Ex
fmbafiador Trugust, before quitting Soain, t
made his farewtrl to the republicans resident i
. n Madrid, by ctlebrating with tHtm the |
14th of July, in a manner worthy of the ;
gre.t event'ahich that day recalls to our 1
mind's. —He fulfilled this obligation with t u e I
jnore willingness, on account of his success (
or, C'tinen GuiHemardet, who had been ar .
rived for foms days pall, not having been
\
yet installed iaiu* oe«r eftablilliment, which bour
rendered it impofiible for him to acquit him- top-]
felf of that important duty." bell
whic
•AUTHENTIC;. fury,
Tie following extract of a letter is from a well
informed and patriotic A/nerican in Europe, , r
wheft filiation enables him Is judge correSly ,' U c
of the French Government. ■
"■****> Aug. 4, 1798.
" My Drar S,r < .. . centl
" Although the policy cf the dire&ory j) an
towards our ccuntry has not yet succeeded j u p t .i
according to their hopes, thcry are by no c i ear
means discouraged J on the contrary, they war[ i
will praClife new arts against which it"is crM |
more difficult thanat;arnli v . er .
their . rms. Every arrival from the United „p t
States brings ui a long lift of volunteer as- r IOUJ
focia'.iotw ai d com. i'oution for the public a p r ,
defence—thefe are precious proofs of the (jj,p S
patriotism and good sense of the people, t | ]t ;,
and (hew that the country may be saved if : man ,
tV e government is true to its trust. But I | w ]j a;
confefs to you, I fee with Infinite uneasiness | c ]j ar
the deadly oppbfition that ftiil continues in! on j,
the House of Representatives, to every ■
measure which is calculates to ward,off rijin; 1
and this lUieafineU is by no aieaas mitigated
by fee.ag the new elections in New York . L on
(late. It is in vain that tie people offer & c ,
■ their property and tbeir lives>o l'jpport the w ; t j,
Executive atlminiitration, if they d) not mcr j
• purge the lej,ifiaturc ef those fpolifh or trai- g 0 \
torous men, who would betray the country
into the hands of its enemies. On this fide jj 0U
F the Atlantic, the American elections are ot ;. e
critically marked as the surest #v?dences ef }, avt
• pttbhc opinion, ar.d ii is forefesn here, that ; U| .,,
t tinlefs the eleftions in other dates are much j_ i
■ 1 better than those of New York, our govern- co , n
. ; tnent mull fall, and our country like the rt- ;yi e
f publics of Europe, mu'.t be delivered up to ant ]
s the Rt:pina:s tbe Talleyrands, and the Mer-. neai
- litis of France. occl
'• lam glad to learn that you more as( j
: confidenceln our affairs, but I caqriot think \,y
> the danger is materially ditaini(tied- ,„)jj
may rely upati my itiformation, tha» the
direftory and their agents know perfeftly "p,,
e wtll, how to (hape their eonduft agreeably wol
1 to the prcfent state of 1 things—they have eve ,
played this game with success among the f an ,
£ people of almost every nation ; they fee e i 3 j
their error in managing the United States, re g
f and will redtify it without delay—you will ft ru
e soon read in. your newspapers, that the (
s French government has no to ex j,
injure the United Stafes ; will br re- f cai
presented as full of moderation, equity, as- ce p
t tedlion,. and even repentance, for the incon- j7 a
I veniences they have occasioned—and those tor)
j artifices, which devils themfeb'es praftice j>j a
towards those they mean to will i; tt
t amuse arid deceive some of the firmed pa' jj]
jj triots of our count/y.' ma
" BALTIMORE, Oct'. 13.
Arrived yeflerday.
r_ Barque Magnanimitas, Wechter, 50 days j n
._ from Bremen —Merchandize, &c. F. &H.
- Konig. _ ft;
>- The Cleopatra, Conner, failed for this f
port 8 days before the Magnanimitas. , f ui
" Ship Louisa, Chatriplin', 100 days from w ;
, n Peter(burg—Hemp. &c. R. Gilmore & Co.
•_ Ship Eliza, of and from Bre nen, 70 days.
Brjg iEol 11s, do. do. 16 weeks a[)
r Lucretia, of and from Boston, 15 day 6
'e Schr. Theoda, do. do. 15 do.
at Ship Wilhelm,-ef and from Hamburgh f u
0 —bale goods, &c. P. D Gpverts. Sep. w
tember 15, spoke a (hip from Baltimore to
Ireland, name unknown. t h
] e r NORFOLK, OA 9. Pj
Captain Berry, who %rrived here la/2 week,
has handed us the Jollowing lifts of vejfels, ji
carried into Bnjfaterre, ( (juadaloups) and
condemned-
American Fabius, Beri-y, from George-
Hon, (P»t.) bound to Trinadad, taken by
e the French privateer Dufane, capt. Dubas. !
The (loop Julia, captaio Green, from °
,l East Haitian, (X. I.) re
1 Hally and J=ine, bound from Cadiz to ,
Portsmouth (N. H ) (
. * # * The crews of the above vessels were
3C j thrown into prison. u
[; d BOSTON, Ofkcber 10. d
THE DISEASE.
(I j t
J o- Since the lad return on the 3d inft. eight I
>n have recovered—five have died—seven new
by cases occurred—twenty fix now re- r
the main sick—ten of whom are on the recove- ; a
iHi- ry. All the piiyficians have made their (]
the returns. By order of the SeleSmen, h
WILLI VM COOPER-, Town CIL I
ire, o<3. B.—Since the return on the sth in(t. c
0-) have recovered thirteen —have died three—
-12 new cases eight —whole numoer now lick
lm- eighteen—jf whom are on the recovery 2
hey three. s)i order of the S?le£lmcu, j
on- WILLIAM COOPER, Town CIL ]
Via- Of the 65,000 dollars fubferibfd at Sa- ,
iux, lem, for building a frigate to be offfed to j
24 S government, Elias Hadte: Derfcy, and Wil- i
■gh'. i liam Grav, E q'rs. gave each io.ooo dol-
T o f hars ; besides this, Mr. Derby has built a ,
'hat j2O gun (hip,"which is nearly ready, and a- a
sos nother to carry the fame force, now 011 the ,
stocks; and Mr. Gray is prepatiag a fine j
rom large ftup, to mtjunt 20 guns. ;
lO'cc '
tt-l . TERRIBLE DISASTER.
loke We yesterday received Hahfa x papers,
k. which relate the mqft fev re and deftru6liv«
" 3e " storm, ever experienced in tha( place. It
s follows :
' HALIFAX, SEPT. 26.
Ex- On Tuesday lad, in the forenoon, the at
tain. mofphere appeared thick—the Iky lour
dent inc—and every thing gave tokens of an ap
the punching gale. The wind nearly fonth,
the about noon began to frefhen into a heavy
our breeze, and barkened towards the eastern
1 t"e board to about S. E. Between 4 and 5
rceff- o'cleck, P. M. a smart (hower of ratn palled
rt ar over, which fcemrd to have given additional
been force to the wind. The vessels in the har
\ k
if
. bour prepared to sustain it by striking their "
top-gallanr-mafts, yards, &c letting gj their
belt anchors and exerting every means
which might enable them to wiihftand its
fury, which by this time produced a confi
f derablc fweil in the road. Th- firft (hip
which beran to drift, no widiflandipg all
| thefc neovSary precautio s, was the Pene
lope, an. Am;vica;i vessel, acquitted but a . .
"few day* before by the Admiralty—file fell 13
athwart the bows <>f a Danilh r;- mol '
cently bro>i r 'ftt in for the
Dane's bovvfprit carried avrny the Pc-ne
lope's mi/en-mast—the latter then got
1 clear ; and focn af:er was tfrivetl up to-
wards the navy )Mrd. The gale now in
-1 ereafed to a mult tremendous violence—
Veered from the eiftward, and blew direftly
1 up the harbour—The moon which occa- j j
" fioually broke through the clouds, difelofed i
' a profpeft which bafflles all description j (
; ships driving before the hurricane nearly on
• their beam ends—others actually upset—
; | raanv with their malts torn by the b.ard— Do '.
I wbarvss and stores filled with valua lr mer j P e
' j cbandize, dashed into atoms, and in fh»rt> i lnev
1 | one qoGtinusd scene of devaluation and ruin,
r j the whole iengt;h of the towc, from the
» ! Kiasj's lumber wharf, to the navy-yard.
' \ The brig Betsey, nearly ready to fail for .
• i London with a valuable cargo of fug.i s. i '
" &c. drove from the Loilg-Wriarf, together ! c , '
: with the (hip T.iberty, (a large re taken A- j .
merican veffil that had just landed htr car- i
■ go)— the head of the Liberty w<is towards
r the town—*ind in her passage up the bar- j
: bour, (he ran foul of and dragged manv .
; otlier vessels adrift, which might otherwise
have fultained the tempest w thout much in-
c jury. The (hip Matilda (belonging to Mr. ( ,
1 J. Anderfon,) and a coasting (loop were
■ completely wpfet—a fchoonfer belong ng to .
' Messrs.' Pryors, drove from their wharf,
1 and forced a passage through the next wharf, ur
" nearly 30 feet from its head:—Ttie fWes
occupied by Meflrs, Lawfons, on A lift in 3 *
r a»d JECidfton's wihi bewr 3»^-<r
- a which drove f*om iremantn s
4. -"barf—and sugars, rice, kc. See. to a con
e" fiderable amount almost entirely dcllroyed :
Y To attempt a detail of the damage sustained
Y would be almost impofiible, at present, or
e even to conjcfture its amount —Many tho j- Izs
e sands will be expended, and mueh time wh
e ebpfe, b; fore the front of the town, will the
regain its appearance anterior to this de- ed
" ftruftive tornado. anl
a On the morning following, the harbour at
0 exhibited an appearance truly melancholy ; Pi
scarcely a (Ingle vessel continued to ride, ex- foi
cept the King's (hips—the Packet aitt the aj
'* Earl M»ira. the Matilda lyiag nearly bot- lot
fe torn upwards on the beach leading to the ha
c Navy Yard—the sloop before mentioned a co
" little distance from her—the (hips Penelope, fr<
at Liberty, a transport and a schooner com- a
manded by Captain Elmflie, were driven so
quice up to the walls of the Dock Yard— f 1
above it, high on the beach near the Navy- w
Hospital, lay two of the veffcls lately sent as
in by the Prevoyaote—on the Dartmouth at
fide, at the«entrance of the Narrows, a large tl
(hip ladcu with cocaa and tobacco, lately
11S sent in by the Lynx, by bilged—a little T
. further down the harbotir, a Danilh (hip
m with a cargo of sugars, See. the Ann
Transport, and the brig Betsey, were
,s " stranded—The vessels are now unlanding,
and it is thought will be saved, as will pra
y 6 bably nearly the wholeof their refpeflive cr.r- v
goes—One brig, the William, laden with
S h fug ar and mobiles, prize to the Prevoyante, J
'P* went 011 (liore nt ar v;hat is called the Back
10 Rock—was entirely dashed ill pieces, and
the whole cargo loft —on board the latter,
periihed an unfo tunate young gentleman,
, (Mr, Sutherland) belonging to the Prevov
' * ante ; but we are happy to learn, that amidft J
s ', all this tumult and deitrudion, but few lives P
tad , n r
were 1011.
By vessels arrived since the gale, from s
"j 1 "" Shelburne, &c. we learn, its effefts have I
been'feverely ftlt at that place, and in fact,
Vi quite along the coast.
om His Majesty's (liip Asia, which ycfterday (
returned from a cruise, met the (torm near ,
° George's-Banks—but fertunately weather- j
td it without much damage—as did the
CrC Hind frigate and the Vixen brig, which
were spoken with by Cap' aiu Murray the
day following.
SALEM, Oct 9.
ght From St. Petersburg & Copenhagen.
Captain Burgess, in the (hip Hero, ar
re' rived here yelierday from St. Petersburg
)ve " and Copenhagen. H< failed from Cron
'le'r (tadt with a large fl'ct under convoy, which
he left off the ( coaft nf Norway. Off the
CM. Naze, he spoke a Danith frigate and Grig,
inlt. cr uixing for the piote&ion of neutral pro
e— perty. Was informed from the frigate,
fifk that they would not fuffir any French crai
rery zers to capture any vrffeb bound to or from
Datiifh ports, or to remain upon their coasts.
Clk. He was also inf>imed, that a French pri
vateer, having put into Chriftianfladt, was
Sa- detained there; itt.d the current of ccnv.r
d t0 fation at Copenhagen was highly refentful
Wil- agaiiilt the FrepcW.
dol- The emperor of Ruflia, captain BuVgefs
a was informed at Peteriburg, had an army of
d a- men on foot, and his navy was
tke completely inaniied and equipped. His ma
fine iefty had publicly declared, that the infillW
and injuries cf the "French were no longer
to be tolerated.
Tbefe accounts corroborate thoft of a
per®, Dew coalition forming a/ainit i'rance.
dive It has been (aid that the policy of Cath3-
It rine 11. mould have led her op.nly into the
war against Fraiice, >"lit that (hi* was re
6. drained by fear that it would occafior. the
leflt- publication ot M. de Pvutbierc's mai.u'.cript
lour- lulWy of thf reyolutian r which placed iter
nap absolute <x", the throne. Paul I. is free from
suth, a reftraiut of that nature,
leavy -n-—*—r
lft 7 n PETER BLIGHT *
ind 5
laffed HAS risnoved bis C Koufe to his House
ional in the Northern t ear Nice I'om, (!ti
har
ißast tte, 12 -
- L
~ H 11. ADEL PH I A ~ 12 J
1, • U
TUESDAY i VENING,. OCTOBER 16. '2 1
>»i nfflgyiSia^Ba— &■» j® 1
|)2
j-' 1 We nnderftand that Robert Wharton,
is eleftea Mayvr of th»s c'ty, by the uuani
moti!i vbte 6f both Councils.
BouhdiAcz, July 12, 1798.
Mejfrs. Rundlt& Leach, t .
This wiirbe handed you by Captain Ra- „
fer, late commander nf yotirfr.ip Peggy.-'—
Although lamwella*aie of your confi
dence in Captain R. y<t I think It incilm
beut on me injustice to him, to bear the ful- 2
j left tellimony to his general merit; but n "
| more efpccially fjr his great and in remit- f rc
| ttd exeruons ob th« late usfortunate occa- A l '
fion of ihelofs of (hp but for which, M
Dot only the vessel, cut the cargo also, and W
| perhapa the crew and paffsngers milft have
I inevitably been 1011. You's, See. 1^
• G. KUNDLE. >
Charlejlon, Sep! 28. M
r The fort la'ely erected on Shutte's Fed- I B'
ly, opposite thi. city, being so far cnmplet i J l?
_jcdas to receive some of its canij' n, yeitdr- 20 '
i day at j 2 o'clock the ceremony c,f naming n;
■it was ptrformed. It is called Fori Pinch- One
, j r.ey, as a tribu eof refpeß Tpr hiajor-general 1:1
j Pinckney, our late envoy to the repchlic of 20 ''
t France. A federal falnte was fired from
, lit, which was returned by Fort Joh.-.foo, . 1(1
Fort Mechanic, the armed brig Unanimity,
and the I-iritifh armed Ihip Belloaa, captaia ®
' e M'Gruer.
l ; Major General Moultrie, Generil WaHi-1 ,< ' l
ington. Lieut. Col, Rutledge, and a tiuni
-' ber us other gentlemen, were invited to afftft
•j at the ceremony, and nfterwardu partook of
' a tenteel repalt. nr-—ocofion ,
"yH *'■< I |
S The following are the regimental orders that > '
%uere ijfued on the above occajion. P r
d REGIMENTAL ORDERS..
,r Having rtceived iufnrmation from lieut. '
. Izard that the fort on Shutte's-Ifland, j F
e which he was 4ire£ted by the Piefident sfj- ,
11 the United States to cpnftrud, i» now finifh-
ed ; that he (hail hoist the flag of the Unicn, Q p
and hre a faltite oil Thursday the 27th inft.
ir at 12 o'clock, in honor of Major-General
; Pinckney, whose nam: the fort is thence-
c- forth to bear: and being desirous as paying w j t
ie a just tribute of refpeft to our illustrious f«l- £nc i
t- low-citizen, who from hisearliett manhood,
ie has dedicated himfelf to the service of his
a country, it is ordered, that a detachment
e, from the regiment of artillery, to'confift of
n- a captain, three lieutenants, four sergeants,
four gunners, apd 72 privates, do repair to
_ Fort Mechanic, *n Thursday, the 27th inft. ,j g
y. where they wiil display the colours, as soon
nt as those of Pinckney (hall be hcifted ;
th and fire a federal salute, immed ately after c,
ge the firing at Fort-Johnson (hall have ceased.
ly Eb. RUTLEDGE, lieut. col. com.
tie To Lieut. Howard, Adj. Rgt. Artillery,
lip September 25.
nn 1
:re GAZETTE MARINE LIST. „
'ff» P'
ra
ar_ New-York, Oft. 15. j q
jtl, arrived, Days, 1
Dnti(h-Packet Weflmoreland, Rogers,
' t'atnionth 65 I
Ship Be fey, Carbray, Cork 32 j H
'"d Columbia, Hetvty, J.imaiia 43 T a
er, Dj Hope, Hendiickfran, Bmirdcaux 54
an, Salomon, Bebonag, Hamburgh 90
, v . Naiicy, Ooodrith, Cork 33
A-rgui, Black, KdwirJcaux 36
Barque Good Hope, Peters, • <{o 74
VeS Brig Elizibctli, Brtifh, H mburgh 105
Ilar.nah, Grener, Bremen 153 R
on Schr Sally, , VVaQiiiipten 14
ave Lift of the American vcfTels that failed from
tft, Cork on the Bth Sept. for tne United States;
under convoy of the Cleopatra and Pliefalit.
J * Fur New York—Molly, Cafpte ; Nancy, v:
Goodrich ; Betsey, ; I'atfcy, i so
Ciir Nancy, PoCrelt ; Waihington, < — ; Char
ier" lone, Hedges ; Orh-n, Hughes j Hamuli,
the ; Lncinda, ; Young Ea^le,
ich . P
the For Philadelphia—A£live, Rinker ; Jane, C
—; William Penn, Jfisflah ; Hope, ; {J,
Thomas, ; Robco & Betsey, ; ( i.
Farmer, ; Amiable, Tilliug'nauft ; ,
Diipatch, ; Sally, ; Lovinia,
— ' P
EN " For Baltii/mre—Sophia, Smith ; Catherine, m
ar- i Sally, i Fly, Briee; Com- ~
ur g merce, Clark ; Juno, . *-
-on- er V tr ß.' n ' a —J ean & Rachel, ; Cath-'
• 1 eriue, ; Charlts, Carter; Martin, Co!-
"j" 1 ley; Nancy, Cumm ngs ; Betsey, ; Co
lumbia, ; Alexander, , Pomona,
"g> ; Jum, ; iris, Keaqiick ; Kttfiiri, 1
pro- Shore; Sero, ; Virginia, JJavis; Endea
ate, vour, .
rai- F° r Cbarhjlon—Amelia, ; Thomas,
rotr , ; Maiy, ; Atlantic, Dean; Sara
„ " toga, ; Lucy, ; Adventure, Alk- -
nomark, ; Sillers. Stokes ; Juno, .
P rl " For ho/lon—Thetis, ; Orion, j
was Afl'rea, ; Nancy, Orr ; Stork, .
V;-r- For Pottliind—Two Brothers
tful For It ilmington, DeI—Henrietta, Stephens.
For iV. CaroUca—Scipio.
r For New Hampjhire—-Nancy, Burt ; and a
0 . number of others, names unknown. »
y ot
was I!■■■ ih 1 m 11 in
DONATIONS, ,
pfrcr Received at the Encampment at Matter's
place, for the use of the poor.
>f a Oflober 14.
24 dozen pieces childrth'tseloathing, I dcz.
itha- pair men's (lockings and I pair of black
-1 the ets, from Mrs Shiras, in behait of her
i re- felf and other ladies of Mount-Holly.
: the 44 dollar* f'Ofn thi inhabitants of Mcunt
cript Holly and citizens of Philadelphia
I her ing there, furwarded by Mr. Ale:;ahder -
from Shirks.
15th.
hands ps Jonathan Sin th Esq.
A bundle cf clo'thei frbm Mr joseph Potts
florife jnnr.
(Ser- A cart Itfad of vegitable* from Mr Jerejr.iah
»i- ) Pwker. r
I
; ' «" 1 ' » i ■ i ,
j If ' |
I 12 j"® ces Idt en's cioathing, 4 new piece!
calhco and 1 si.it cLthes, from Mu
Lawfon, Frankford.
12 pie<?cs_ children's doathing from Mr#
Gaw of Frankford
-12 buftieh of potatoes, 5 bufliels' iodutf
meal and £ cwt ryt meal from several in.
habitants of Benfalem tswnlhip, per Ms
Asa Tomli'ofon. *
John Infkeep ■ i
J-nta. Rcbtfon, I
Tfaac ti\ Morris.)
DONATIONS,
Received at the rent.; near S[b«ylH!l, fir the
"fe "f the Poor.
Oft. 15.
2471b. fat beef from Mr. George M'Clefl*.
ning, 243 do from JouathanJoHe», 91 d<!r
from Hugh Cooper, 90 do aTd one fut
flieep from Mr Hugh Kr.ox, 83 do from
Mr David Rwbert, 89 do from Mr lohi»
W ouehner, one fat iiccr, weight 540U).
M r John Rofs, one big of meal frojn Mr
Richard Humphreys, x>ne do from Mi 4
lull:: Leedcm, on; do of potatoes from
Mr Conrad Goodman, one far ihecp from
Mr Andrew Smith, ali inhabitants of
B'.ockk-y, and forwarded by Capt Wil
liam Smith. '
2u bi.fl.iels of turnips from two gentletnen,
names ttoknewn.
« One bnnoie of babe clotlirs from a ciiizrn
in Abbiugton, "Unknown.
20 doll r£ f om Mr Peter Wyksff found by
Mr II -Dry Mierlfen on the road, enclosed
1 in a Jurer addrcfsed to ihe committee of
r 1 the Tents.
1 j By order of the Committee.
I PETER MIEIiCKEN,
. | Southwark, Oa. 16. Chairman.
■ ■ '
. • .....
TO 7HE PUBLIC.
' ) vhofc naillf: *
, Place) on behalf of oarfrlves and the ether
| persons there, who voted at the ele&ion,
on Tucfday last, by whom w» are individu
ally authorized ; dp (in refutation of certain
' j groundless reports spread about to the pre
j.' judice of the Committee, and others amonglt
11s, and injutlice to Qiirfqlves) declare with
j the fullett and llridteft truth, that no ki::d
of persuasion was used with ai y of us to
j give our votes in favor of one fide or party,
on that occasion, more than nnotl.er—buC
that ha«ing been several years acquainted
S with the character) of those we fopported,
and having consulted amo' git we
gave our votes according Lo our belt judg
'* ment, without hope or iear, persuasion cr in*
eft
John Zfiler, William M' Mills,
' Philip IVarner, Samuel llyndman.
jDaniel Roberts, "John Hatcher,
John Burton, 7~htmas Cojfinger,
St. John Harvey, Thomas Betagh,
' Benjamin Dui 'ley, John Doivill,
James Matthews.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
For the 16th Ofctober.
ADMITTED.
Frederick Jacobus Van del Howel
J-hn Crarley Eleanor Thompson
I George Sonamaker James Martin
'■''•J Sarah Hall 1 homas Brown.
63 ! DIED.
31 Henry Garling M chad Coyle
43 \ James Hamilton John Allen.
- ?4 Difcbarged—TWELVE.
Interred from city and fubtrvbl 5"
II City Hospital 4
74 _ ,
05 » Total 9
1 53 Remaining in the Hospital 76, 33 of whoiq
are 011 the recovery.
om
m' TWEN TY-TWO new cases cf the pre
vailing fever, reported by 15 Phyficianj,
lar-
ill,
-!e ( DlED—Yelterday afternoon, in tha
Pei.nfylvania Hofpi'al, of the yellow fever,
ne, Caleb Parr son of William Parr, formerly
i (heriff of this city j he was lick only one
~ ' -day. Faur cases of the fever are ip the
j ' house at th » fime, two of which have taken
! place within the-laft two days. S. C.
ine,
List of all th: Burials in ihe federal Grave
ith-' Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila-
Jo!- delphia, as taken froin the books kept by
Co- Clergymen, S.xtons,&c.
U ' rColleifted for the Oazf.tte of the United
Jea- Stati-s, by ROBERT P AXTON.~\
|A ' w
nas, Names of the Burial Grounds.
ara- .
\IW- 1 ' "■
phrift Cliureh .... 4 f
_ ' St. Peter's - - - - 1 , 0
i St. Pauls - - - - - °; 0
First Prifbyteriin - -
Second Presbyterian - - - 10
"" ' Third Frc&yrtrjan ... 00
1 Sroo Prelbyterian ... 0 °
Aflbciate Church ...
St. BftaryVCinjrch - - - 00
Trinity Churth ... 0 ®
Friends' ..... 10
| Free Qujkerj' -»
; tr »s I Sivedev ..... 00
[ Gcrm.iH I.iitlicran ... ' 0
; German I'eformrd Pit fbvterian 1 0
Mdriviaos* - - •
icz. B«j>tifis' -
j-.k- MpfhpdLV ... - 1 o
f, ei . Univerfalifls' .... E o
' ' Jews' r 0
City Iloftiital ...» 9 1
nnt- Kenfineton .... 10
ei'd* Coates'j
hder
Tvtalfor the last 14 hours igl 3
■ the 0. Yhe Health Ofi'c.- is tept open night and
at tht City Hall, " I:ere pvery nrcejTary
'otts loraveiiiencf is procured for removing the Ccfc,
and burying :he dead.
Biaij WILLIAM ALX.EN.
Health Office, Sep!emhr 29,I
PROPOSALS, i
BY THE
Injur ance Company of North America.
For Insurance against Fiki, on Dwelling-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (am?
on Goods contained in such Building*) diflant from
PhiUdelphia, in the United States.
I* Common l'»rurancr«, on hazards of the firft
class, wili be undertaken at a premium of about
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifqaes a larger pretrium will be required, "which
will vaiy according to circu"*iftance», feidoai ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; bat in some i-n
---ftances, where the property insured U not only in
itfe'f extra hazardous, but rendered still more Co
by the tic in ity of r*tra hazardous buildings and
occupations, rhep»emium demanded will be raised
according to cirewmftanres.
Houses and 'Ware-Houses, the wall* and parti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
Conftru<sted, so as to b» guarded as well asmay be
against fires from within, and Iree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will he deemed hazardous of the firft
class, i»d may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra
hazardous kind, in eafks. bales, or packages, de
* port ted in such build' n g*> to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than this sum
is required to be insured in one- tenement, an addi>
tioaal premium will be required, in proportion -to
circumstances. '
11. 'rfuranee= will also be made on building? and
go<id< extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to th.i rifqu'. But it is not e=fy to arrange th.ffe
under j>nr*ieular heads or ciafTes, so as to defaibe
wch with the necelfary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore he decided upon according to thecircum
ltaiices a-tending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the description accotnpa
uyTg tie application,
Buddings partly eonftrufled of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in i
both cases, the fiile of buiWing, how they are oc- i
cupled, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how'occupied, are eosfiderations to ,
be taken ir.to view. And with refpeft togoods,
their tendency, whether from their nat*re, or |
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to Increase an accidental fire, aisd I
their liability jn such state to receive damage by i
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be ito-1
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
propcrtioned accordingTyT~~"
l!l. The following conjitiont are to be under
stood 1 y the parties .
ifr. The Infu. ance isnct binding till the ftipu-
Ijti.-d jrem nrn I avai.l; but it fliall be deemed ef
fectual irom the tune of such payment and accep
tance. thereof, whether the policy be immediately
figncd or not.
fd. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
t'on cl the term of the policy, without furtherex
p-rfes than the payment of the premium of the re
new ed term, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they were under flood by the Infiirers at the time
t'l;former insurance was made ; but the payment
<»f the premium is elTentiul to such renewal ; ano
if the party insured fullers anytime to elapse after
the expiratiop of theformeririfurar.ee, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
durirg such H:i'e ; «or nthednfuranee be renew
ed en the fcrmer policy but hy computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former,infurance. The fubjefl of inlbr
ance-Jnay ne", :rvh-lefs be open to treaty for a new
infuraoce.
3.1. f any other LTiirance be made on the fame
property ; it must he made known at the time of
«ppli(»t .. nthcrwife tiie policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
•yh G" >''» h»ld in trust, or on consignment,
T»ny b$ insured *s fiych in a separate policy; but
tht\ aren't fa : .>e corfulered ts infutedotherwafe.
5 ill,, This company will not be liable or accoun
table' -rtny lolsor damage occnDom d by any lor
f i'lvafion, cr by :» y military or usurped force
or by peafon of any ci\ commotion ; or occaiion,
eel by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of tii-
Jd;e kind kept in the building, or amongll the pro
perty insured.
f th. Hills of Exchange, Bqnds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
mifiary Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
tier i:-e paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrois exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollarsench, tobeconfidered as insured une
I#rs particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
Jih. No insurance will be made forafhorter
term than ore year, nor for a longer term than fe
v-i years. Ft rfons choosing to infire for seven
years (ball be aliowed one year's premium by way
of dileount: One third ot a years premium fliall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
tfcree years. ,
Bth. Lofles fuflained by fire su property injured,
fliall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A description of the property to be infurod will
he expifltn wi.h «aeh application, to be made by
a maimer carpenter and ftgned by him, as well as
by tbr owner of the building 01 applicant for in
fviraV'Ce, and attested belorc a Notary or principal
IvLijdllrare, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility. '
With refpe»!l to Houses and other Buildings. '
Jit. The site and poCtioß; describing the ]
fln-et or toaci on or near which the building ,
Itjiuls ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- |
cumil nces relative to the extingui(h;*.ent of fire
in tale of accident ; and particularly whether ,
any and what fire companies are eftablifl\ed, and I
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood, j
2d." i'he materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brii k, stone or wood, and what part of
each, js well as to the outside walls as itifide or
partition walls, and their refpe "ive height and
thieki .'ls; the style of the roof and of what
materials; how secured by battlements or par
ty walli 1 what kind of aceffs to the top of the J
house to the ehimnies ; whether any and
what eic<£lric rods ; tliq number and kind of j
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3'l. Ihe dimenfiensof the building and how
dl> i'leil, and the style in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in-what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
lin;; houfo, or for any other, and for what pnr
pofr , also an estimate of the value of thehoul'e .
ef budding independent of ttlie ground.
4 .h. The lituatioi: with refpefl to other build
ings or back buildings, vhether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet •
each way : what kind of bitildingt are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
ho\r occupied or improved, whether as dwel- (
lifigs for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufaftory is car- ]
ried on, and particularly whether there be any s
extra hazardous articles used, or tif'iially depo
sited in the ho-ife, or within the diltance afore- '
f*id, and,of what kind.
Refpct)irg£c>9«'.< in Houses, Warehouses, *c.
I. A reneial deftription of the building in
w'uich they arc kept will be expected, similar in "
all rrfpe£ls,as to the danger from lire, with that
required tor Insurance 011 the buildings them
i'clves.
a. A description of the Lilids and nature of •
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or oj>em d ; and whether displayed in whole :i
yircts or in th« ufaal form for retailing. And '
>«*"»' f * 1 ' " \
~ m !if 'h* goods arc mnterta'iy in kind,- a general
J efimate <ll t-Vts value of each kind jfroppled'to
I he insured ; but in the last particular minute
j ness of description is not expeiied.
I 3. A ticks sf the follow ing kinds are deem-
T _ |ed extra hazardous, thuigh in various degrees,
1 in whatever hnilding they may 1* placed, viz.
m pit' h, tar, turpentine, rolm, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable l'piritg, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry good 3 of an inflammable kind opened.—
•ft Gkfs, china ware or porcelain, especially tin
ut paiked; Locking glafles, jewelery ; and all o
us ther articles mart than commonly inflammable,
eh or irore than commonly liable to injury by fud
x- i den removd ot by moiflures, or particularly
n- . obnoxious t9 theft on alarm of fire.
in ! I/etters post paid, direi!l»d to the Secretai yof
r " the Hoard of Direiiors, will be duly intended
to. ill ordtr for Insurance by the
means of paving the premium, will be imme
diately executed 011 the premium heing paid. If
"" tke application contain an enquiry only, it will
r : be.answered.
Br order of the Board,
ERENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
.n Office of the Insurance Company «/North 7
America ; Philad. Feb. 1, 179"* »
ra Feb. 14- "mtf
t Mills, Portage, <^c.
m TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TZARS.
li-
to nrO be hafed, for a term not left than three,
X. nor more than seven yenrs, a VALUABLE
PROPHRTY at the Seneca-Falls in the county ef
Onondajfo, a nd flato of New-York, on the
& of the SenecaVrlver, two jniles w&rf ths Cayvga
ferry, ®rtd eleven miles east of Geneva,
lft This eOablifhment consists of an excellent grift
n ; mill, saw mill, dwelling harn, aftd a port
li> age or cJTrying place, with between thirty and
a ~. forty acre® of land, under good irr.provement, and
as much more in the vicinity, a 9 may be required
,e ' for future improvement.
in The grift mill is a handsome, new and well fin
c " ifhed building, of 50 by 3° 3 high
an# t'urniftied with a run of excellent Burr stones
to and another of Efopus* (lones, ot the belt quality
—and the croft approved V)o*lt», &c. calculattd to
or male* all the different qualities of flour for expor
er taticn or for home consumption : ItU*ccclTible by
? d water from every part of the Cayuga lake aui fe
neca-»river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
P- from its fifuiti«n. veryeytenfiVe ati.l
•r
---neTer Wt in wact of water ; at.d m it has been Kept
~~ workingdi-ring the fertreft season of the lait win
ter, it is not liable to'icimpeded by frufl :
The saw milt it also new, fitaateiJ on tjie fame
dream, now furnifhed with an amplt flttfk of
P" logs, of which a supply may it all times be pro
'y cured by land or water, of the be 4 quality r
The dwelling house is well calculated for the nfe
a * of the miller, is new, and f'ifSciently laige : The
K- barn is about 40 feet fouart, and entirely new :
e * The portage is j-4thsof a mile in length, along
ie the Seneca-falls—over which wer« palled in the
te lad year, nearly two hundred boars with their
it contents j this objeA is airea-ly productive of a
1(1 handsome income, which Biull be incrcaCng and
- r perrtianent:
Among the many advantages of thisCtuatioa,
d mud be numbered the fertility of thefurrcanding
country—being the b«ft improved part of the coun
ie ty ef Onondaga—tht concentration of inter
n cotirfe by lani and water, the Geneffee ftateroad
paffmg through it, as well as all water carriage to
" Geneva, ar.d the counties of Ontario and'Steuben ;
which renders it a mod eligible Hand for a Stor« or
e ' Tavern—The river and lalvs aiiound in fifh and
>f fowl, and the country with deer and o'her game.
'■ Sefides the millt already eredled at tliis place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
t, maybe found ncccffary—Fulling mill, bark mill
t tannery, farces, &c. may be ereiled at a small ex
pence—lron e re may be brought in boats Irom the
- Cayu»a lake ; and it is'thwght to abound in tkf '
neighborhood.
- The flock on hand w : ]|bt fold to the lessee, and
. the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may be fold
- or let the premises.
If apurchafe should offer for the whole or an 1
undivided part of the premises it will be fold. I
F*r term* of (ale or lease, apply to mr. Wil- '
- l'elmusMyndersi, at the Seneca falls, or to the
; fubferiber, at Schenedady.
= STEFHEN N. BAYARD.
: Federal Mills,
A DJOININ-G Georgetown, and the City of |
Xi- Washington, will be offered at Public Sale, ,
on theioth day of September next, at the Union ,
J Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale.
I I'hofe millsin'point of situation for b-iCnefs and c
. na'ural advantages are generally admitted to be
e*ua! to any ir America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brirk house, eighty feet by fifty, almofl
' new, in which are erected foor pair of Burr mill
flones with eievators, hopperboys and b*lting '
, cloths, completely finifhed and coiiflrudcd m such E
| a manner that the whole of the mills may manu. 11
t failure flour at the fame time. The country mill f
which is created near the other, is entirely r.ew,
I a ilrong stone building, eontaining one pair of ?
stones, and built in such a manner that the fecoad "
pair may be put up with little cxpeace. Thismill P
is conveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry 011
extensively, country work, of which u gets a con- e
llant supply. There is belonging to the said mills 1
acres of land, the whole of which will be *
fold with the mills. b
One third of the purchase money will be require
ed ill sixty days from the day of sale, and for the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further ?
particulars will be mad- known of ths day of file.
JOSEPH E. ROWLF.S, !'
Surviving partner of ls
JOSEPH E. ROWLES & Co. .
Georgetown, july t.q. n— r .wts "
LANDING, q
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Coß
neiflicut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee, r
of the growth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons oi Java Sugar, i
Incannifters—for sale ky t(
PETER SLIGHT, f
WHO ALSO ®FF ER S FO* SAI.E, !(
150 hhds. choice [amaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in lihds r
Brandy lft and 4th proof ia pipes, hhds. b
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack \
iu'v 1 § si
JtOR SALE, n
A I FARM on the road leading to State Island, !•
within four and an haltmilea of PhiladelpWia, p
containing 4 j acres in the highett state of cultivation
—9satres of which ijmoadow, the remainder up
land. 1 here areon the premises, a new frame House
and Baro, w'th an eXcellen?kilch«fn garden, contain
ing a grdat cumber of frit Treea.—lmmediate posses- si
fion will be given, j,
For terma apply to
Thomas IV. Francis y ir
julvifc- No. 98 South Third itrect/ Ji
To be Let,
All airy three Story Brick House, I "
ON the south fide of Filbert Street, bet we. n a
Eighth ind Ninth street. formerly occu-iad
as the Surveyor General's Office-—Encoire at No
iTJ, Chcfmst Street.
COjt
f i r
M DUTY on CARRIAGES
i
Nolice is hereby given,
THAT agrceaMy to an a# ot C<roffre6, of.the
United Statrs of Amerte*; pa'led nt T"«la
delphin the -23th.4ay of May, 179;- dtt "
ties on carriage's for the cocvey«*nce of pcrfons, ana
' repealing the former ail* for that puvpofe— 1 flat
' t lucre £•! I be levied, eolle<3c<l an r ' J> 1 *» upon i I
carriage* for the «anv*yauce »>f revfoas, which
I jbau.be kept by or for ary person, for his or her
" own use, or to let out to hire, or for the convey
jl ing of passengers, the several duties and rates Ul
iowi*"J viz. dol's.
y For ancl upon every ceach 15
upon every chariot
apon every post chariot f
d upon every ; oft ehaife tz
e aponcveryphrston.withor withont top 9
upon every coachce 9
'f upon other carriages, having pannel "S
II work above, with blinds glaffvs, > 9
or currains j
upon four-wheel carriages hiving S
frame polls and tops, with fieel C 6
J
upon four-wh»e! top carriages, with ">
wooden or iron firings on jacks 3 •*
upon curricles with tops 3
upon chaile* with, tops 3
upon chair* with tops 3
'• upon sulkies with top® 3
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
?, ipon two wheel carriages with Heel")
£ or iron fprii)gs 5 *'
•f Tor and upon all other two wheel carriages 2
ft upon every soar wheeled qirriagQi")
having framed poils and tops, C 2
and reding upon wouden spar« j
i The Collector of the revenue of the firft diviHon
of the fir ft survey of the dillri<st of Pennsylvania,
1 will attend daily until the 30th day of September
4 next, for the puiSofe of receiving the duties on
d carriages, at Germantown, on the Main Greet, a
little above the fjjn of the King of Prussia, of
which all persons potfeffed ©f such carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled j
spirituous liquors, that licences will be granted to ;
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of ;
J retailing of win.sjjn a kfs quantity, or in less
" uantitiei, than %o gallons—and one lieence for j
arrying on tie bufincf- ©f retailing spirituous li*
quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the
u ? PJ*" *t the fmriU Jriuco, by
lt JAMES ASH, |
CoUe&or of the iTt division of the ift I
Survey of the diftriift of Pennsylvania.
e Office Of. Fpfpe&ibn at Germintown, ")
f 22d August, 1798. j
denomination of Stamps to be had
at laid office.
e gr The Stamp Press is removed
- to the Office of InfpcCtion in Gernuntown, on the
44ai*» Areet, a little alSove the figu of the King ol
Prufiia,—-where attendance will be given for the
e accommodatij» ol those who.wish any inllr«mwnts
r stamped, on 1 uefdays, Thursdays and Saturdeys.
1 ugufta 22
i
For Sale at Public Audiion,
' ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
Alexandria, on the 26th day of osober
[ next, if not fold-at private sale before that time.
( One of these lots is .near the end of the wharf,
. twenty feet beyond which the water is two fathoms
. about forty feet cut three fathoms, fifty feet
I out the water is four fathoms, and grows deeper
until it comes to the channel, which is aboHt fev
. enty feet from the end of the wharf. There ir
as-much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
the whaff, which rtay want railing about a foot
near the end. There is in this falc an half acre lot
very Jit for a tavern ; it i*. Wull watered* and an ex
, cellent (land for that business. This property will
be fold for ready money, and altogether or separ
ate, as may best suit the purchaser ; it lays on the
lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
very faft. A Scotch of the ground may bj f-en in
the hands of the Printer.hereof. For terms at
private sale, apyly to Wm Hartshorne, or to
the fubferiber, in Alexandria.
JOIIN HATIPER.
September 3 fawßw
Wants Jtmployment,
A YOIJNG MAN, who has served a regu
-L J- lar apprenticeship to the mercantile busi
ness in this city, willies t» engage in a Coimting
house or.offic*. writes a good !und and nnder
uands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d
Security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
' une " .Mwtf
Bafkenridge—-for iaie
IT consists of 920 acres, .lmofl: all of which i»
'a fine rich Meadow, (the refldenceof the late
of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
mto hve farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eail by the river Pafaick.
Th»rr are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquarc ol nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
11 a very convenient one and;afmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard connfl, of i JOO fin»bearing emrraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other partsotfofd
traft near 300 other Apple Trees—hs also a m-eat
wie-yof-mhetfr,,it*,particularly Ghtrries of the
belt and snoft delicious kinds.
Also a great number of beautiful' Exotics and
ForellTaeas, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its (ituation i» abcut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : to do.
frem N.orris- Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered. ,
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
.a calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire 0$ T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chsfnut trcct.
eodtf
Patent Ploughs,
wfs ash . Jofe P h Salt « Atfion
H w w r ' Coo P er 8 F err y—Jonathan
Harker, Wo°<W—and JelTe Evans, Lumber
ton Thtfe who have uftd them give them the
preference to any other kind, as tfcey require
.ess team, breaK the ground better are kept in
erder at less expence and are (bid at a cheaper
rate the plan is much fimphfied and consists of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and '
beam of wood ; they may besxed with wrought ■
lays and coulter, to be put on with (brews a»d 1
taken off a£pleafure.
Patent rights for vending with inftrntfions for 1
m 1 m . ay be hid b y applying to John ;
E-te'et" Übrtriher N °- N °" h '
Who has far Sale^
Or to Leafc for n term of rears,
A number or valuable trafts of Land «,»u
filiated fer Mi!!,, Iron .York, or Farms,,
y improved, lying chi.fly in the county of Hun,
tingdon state ot Pennsylvania. Those who may '
ind.ne to v.ew rtem will please to apply '
j John Canan esq. near Huntingdon. 1
Claries Ncuboid I
J' J ' y ' 7 2awtf «
for sale, ~ '
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Wil'ingt Is? Francis.
June ,3. da
' i
AN ACT , _ .
for tb'.lvlhf "f th.- -Refugees 'from tueßnUp
proi' nccs tf Canada ctnd Nova-Scotia.
T> E it e:ia3ed ky the Senate and Ihnft
ie Src ' •' D 9/ Reprefeniatii'ts of the United
1- ' States 9/° America, in Congress ajp > lied, T hat
1- to larisfy thecU'rfls of certain pet-lons claiming
d ' lands mider the of Congress ol the
1C twenty-third of April, one tboiifaud kven hun
' dred ai!rl eighty-three, end the thirtetn'.h of
1 April, on* thousand fiven hundred and eighty
:r v five, as refuses from tfit 3ritilh provinces of
| C,.;acU. and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
| Departrnent of War, be, an 1 is he,rtby autho
s" i rized ami dire<S\ed to give ncitice in one or more
■ of the public papers of each of the States of
* | Vj-rmort, M^j!3(Jiii r 3tts, New-York, New
, i Hjnrefbiro and Pennsylvania, to all perJons hav
ing claims under the fiid refolutior.s, to tranl
' to rhe War-olfice, within two years ;ftei»-
the nalTing of this aft, a just aiid tr\ie sccuunt
„ of their (Jaima ttrfts (loutity of Cosgrefs.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, '! hat 110
other person* Ihal! be ei>tit!ed to the"oenefit oi the
6 provisions of this aol, than those ef the fallow
ing descriptions, or their widows and treirs, viz.
Firit, those heads of families, ami finale per-
fons, not members ot ar.y such families, woo
3 vs :re rtfidents in one of the provinces alorcAid,
3 prior to the fourth day of July, one ihouland
3 ieven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
-3 doned their settlements, in comfequcnce of hav.-
3 ing given aid t-> the United Colonies or States,
, in the revolutionary War Great-Britain,
or with intention to give fpch aid, and continu
-1 ed in the United or in their service, dur
ing the said war, and did not return to reside in
2 the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, i
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
" thnnfarid seven hundred and eighty-three. Se- 1
' condly, the widows and heirs of a,)l such pcr
fons as were ailual residents, as aforelaid, who 1
a abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and 1
,f !du d within the United States, or in their fer- ;
. vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per- j
fens who were members of families at the tjme
of theirccmingintotheUnited States, 2nd who
. during the war, entered into their service.
Sec. 3. And he it further enabled, That the j
° prn»f of the fevtral circumllances necefiary to (
j-. entitle the applicants to the benefit of this ail,
r may be taken before a judge of the supreme or j
diftridl court cf the United States, or a judge (
e of the supreme »r fiipcrior court, or the firlt juP (
tice or firft judge of the court ot ccjnmon pleas (
or county court of any State. i
t Sec. 4. And be it further enaflrd, That at> |
(lie exvira; : .on of fifteen months from and after <
the palling of this a<sl, from time tr. lirrve (
thereafter, it lhal! be tke duty of the Secretary t
1 for the Department of War, to lay such evi
dence of cliims as he may have received, before
1 the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
e and with tham, proceed to examine the tefti
[ monV, and give their judgment what quantity
e of land ought to betllowedto tire individual
, claimants, in praportion to the degree of their -
1. refpedUve services, facrifices and I'uiTerir.gs, in
confequcncj of their attachment t9 the catife of '
the United States fallowing to those of the firft
cUft a quantrtynotexceeliiigone thouflndacres;
and to the iaft class,- a quantity not exceeding f
one hundred, making such intermediate cUsses 0
' as the resolutions aforefaid, and diflributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make a
report thereof, to Congress. Atwi in cafe any
J such claimant fnal! have fufeined such losses and *■
t lufferings, or performed such fervices'for the I
r United States, that he cannot justly be clafied
. in any one general clifs, a separate report (hill C
f be made rtf his circumllances, together with the '
1 quantity of land that ought to be allowed him, 1
t having reference to the foregoing ratio': Pro
t vided, that in considering what compesfiti«n a
. ought to be made by virtue of this afl, all grants
I except military grants, which may have been 2
- made by the Upited States, or individual States, 8
: shall be ccnfidered at the jnft valuu thereof, at
f the time the fame were made, refpecftively, ei- si
' ther in whole or in part, as the cil'e be, a '
l'atisfaflion to ihofe who mav have received the »
' fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
law, ftiall be afiignablc until after report rmde b
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the Taid
lands he granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this adl.
_ Sec. j. Be it further enacted, That al! cl«ims
in virtue of said resolutions i f Cor.grel's, which
(h-all not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this aft limited, lhall forever thereafter
be barred. E
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House cf Reprefntati-ves
TH : JEFFERSON, s
Vice-President of the United States,
and Preftdent of the Senate.
Approved, 7, 1798. "
JOHN ADAMS, a:
Pref.dent of the United States. "
Deposited among the Rolls m the office of the 01
Department of State, v;
Timothy Pickkring,
Secretary of State.
G> Purfuivit to the above Aft, No- w
ticc is hereby given to all persons hav-
ing claims under the resolutions of Xon- ri
grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and ™
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto O
the V/ar-Office within two years after t0
the palling of the said Aft, viz. the 7th h
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac-
count of their claims to the bounty of vi
Congress. th
In the proof of Claims, a ftrifk atten- co
tion must be paid to the requilitions of ! Jo
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft,
JAMES M'rfENRY, tei
Secretary of TVar.
_WL r 9 S aw6w
aurora office; -
October ip, 1798. - <
Reports having been circulated
that THE AURORA wis nbt to be rc-piibiidied. Un
—1 he puuhc .-re hereby refpeflft.l'y informed cal
that the want of hands a'.one has prevented its re- zel
publication several days ago ; but that such ar- «'
rangements are now making as will alTure the an- sll
S tf »= paper in the course of the prefe.it, h,r
or the firft week ps the next morth.
CA77TTO~N. A
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled I
from me on the firft inft. by givi r ~ A
Uic H.lteuihereof aforged check on the Bank a "
of North America, a note of that dare, drawn 5
.n mv favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay - r '
ble in fix months, for three thcufand tour pr.'
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are desired not to re ,vr
eeive a„y transfer of it. a, it will not be
paid by est. tr the drawer or endorfcr unit fa Wl
recovered by law. P°
NICHOLS/
. , Race Street.
august 6. ■
. This Day Publijhed,
• J And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
. 1:9 Chefnntftreet,
(Price i-Ztb of a Dollar.)
* AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1)98,
° At therequed of/he.lnhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commem ration of the anni-
verfary of American Independence.
By JoSiah S>u7Ncr.
as " The inroads upon our public liberty, call
)e for reparation—The wrongs we havefuftained,
v call frx—Justice. That Reparation and that
re Jufti"''. may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and conquer was
' v _ the maxim of the Devil fn the garden of Eden,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
j-_ pie of all bis votaries from that period to the
en- P ,erent '".
|)t Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, (Sfc.p. 78
by the late J. putney, jun.
<= TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
J ON * »7. 1798.
r- "\T OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir,
;r> In cue of an asft, paffedduring the prarent fef-
Ron ef Conn-refs, so much of the a<ft entituled
; ; "An Ail making further provision for the sup.
10 " port cf public credit, arid for the redemption
n " "of the public debt"—palled the third day of
'*•- March, one thcufand {even hundred and ninety
s» five, as bars from settlement or allowance,
'> Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
J- final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In
r- ferefls, is suspended unfil the twelfth day o
in June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
1, hundred and ninety nini.
le That 011 the liquidation and settlement of the
e- fid Certificates, and Indents of Interest, ot the
r- i'reafury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
o Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockeqnal
<J to the amount of the said I:\lents, and the arrear
r_ a K es of jntereft due on their laid Certificates, prior
- tf> 'be firft day of January one thousand Seven
ie bundled and ninety one. f
0 Th« the principal fiimsof the Did Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interelk
thereon, since the firfl.day of January, one thou
' sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
' payment of interefl and reimburfiraent of princi*
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
£ payab'a thereon, if the said Certificates- had been
fubferibed, pursuant to the A&s making provision
18 for th ' debts of the United Statas, cor,traced dur
ing thj, )ate war, and by the payment of other
it l films, equal to the market value of the remaining
r Stock, which would have been created by such
c fublci ipticns asaforefaid, which market value will
y be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
- OLIVER WO.LCOTT,
r Secretary of tic Trtafury,
> j™ e -3 ' lawtf
y ' General Poft-«>ffice,
11 PROPOSALS for carrying the mails ef the
r IT United States on the following routes will
a be received at this office until the 20th day of
,f September next inc'ufive.
| 1. From Pittfburg P. by Cannonfburg, Wash
; ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
g town to ZjQv.cs at the mouth of Licking-creek,
s on tie Mulkiiigurc, estimated j^omiles.
h Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 2p. m. and
e arrive at Zanes the next Monday by BP. M.
y Returning—Leave Zanas every Tuesday at f
d a.m. and arrive at Pittfburg the next Friilav by
e 10 A. M
J 2. From Zanes. at the mouth of Licking
II Creek on the Mnlkingum, by Chilicothe and
e MafTey's to Mayfville in Kentucky ; estimated
, 140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tfrefday at 5 a. m. and
11 arrive at Mayiville the next Friday by to A. M,
s Returning—Leave Mayfville every Friday by
t 2 P.M. and arrive at Zanesthe next MoHdavbir
, Bf. M. 7 '
t The carriage of the mails tocommer.ce on the
. firft day of November next and continue until
\ the firft day of OiSlyber 1800. Payments will
; be made quarterly.
s The ufur.l penalties for delays and failures will
: be stipulated in contrail.
] Joseph Habcrjham,
. PoJT-Mrfler General.
r .'nladelphia, July *3, 1798. m&'hf>w
HEALTH OFFICE!
r Philadelphia, if May, 1798.
Extract of an acS to alter and amend the Health
*of this Commonwealth, passed 4th <>pril
1798. *
SeA. 8- A b . e lC fur:! "- er er.acSted by the au
. . therity aforef'aid. That every house.
Keeper w.thin the city ef Philadelphia, the town-
IhiM of the Northern Liberties and Moyamtnfing,
and di!lri4 of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mits of the city, taltit g in boarders arriving bv sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place,'and ha
ving any hoarder inhir.or her family, whofhall be
taken sick o: any difeale whatsoever, bea-.r3en the
iirft day of May and the firft day of November in
T Y ' VV ' rhin twcnt r da )' $ after such boar
rier fliall cqnue to lodge in his or her house, fliall
• within 24 hours next after the knowledes of such '
sickness. make report at the Hcalth-OfEce of the
name of such sick period, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and «f the name and p'acc of abode of such houfe
kcep r; whereupon the Phyficiait of the Health-
Oflice shall forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such riif
eafe, that measures may be, taken to prevent the
spreading of tho-mfefi-on ; and if any houfekecper
ftad neglcift to give information in the mannerand
. within the time afofefaid, and fballhe thereof ron
vifled, in any court of criminal jurisdiction witliin
this Commonwealth upr>r iucUdtme-rt by verdift
or confeffion, he or she ikall forfeit and pay a fine
co the use of the said hospital.not less than twenty
doll.fts, nor more than one hundred dollars, tolw
impofed-at the diferetion of the court, according to
tne circumflances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WiU.Af.LEM, Health Officer,
Taw;m of the Port of Philadelphia
The Public are hereby informed,
J "rfAl I did not n-ean to autliorife Col. WU
-1 iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pa
un'efs recovered by law, my note alluded to in hit
caution of tlae 6th of Augull, published in the Ga
zette of the United States.of laA evening. I sin
cerely lament his lois, and t*ld him I vvould do
all 1 could do confidently with my credit to serVe
him, hut went no further.
JOHN TRAVIS.
august 7 j
Maitli for South-Carciinais? Georgia,
T-* V,'m K rS a ' f L n ° W P rovic,c ' l f °' carrying tliei
ami ( ,' | c ® ll ' ,b y wlt ' r titt« , ttn Philadelphia "
and Charlt fton i hey will leave Philadelphia
on Friday s. The port by land will he enmim.-
rrpud\o a <V Un V) a " ex P frim *nt made in
n-cfei Tf " pt,<j!t ' orl and regularity of the
££?; , { * n J P crfo , n chur « to have their
wr tr th r ni! ° n,y ' thf y wi!l P ! «fe to
th "'nf nd " |,on th<! othrr
w a firft « " C , lcnt h V that conveyance which
joseph Haberfbajii,
Phil*J a ft-A'iafler Gemcrl.
Philadelphia, t ; , i; 95.