? *1 »r •• vxM?Limly Auvcrtiscr•
' " c / By John Fenno, N c * 119 Chefnut Street. _
f * *
London,
Ship Star,
1 Joseph Woodman. an"' r >
Intended to fail oa tho iSth inft.
AUOUT jo tons on frefght
be received, if immediate ap
plication it made to the matter on hoard, at Wal
nut street wharf, or to
ThomtJ tSf J«bn Ketland.
5« tons Gravel Ball*<f lor sale am board said lhip.
march t. y ... i'*'
—tztz T.
3500 to 4000 bufheb of large
grained SALT,
Fron> St. Martin's on board the ship Spy, at the
BtiH House wharf—for sale by
Stephen Kingfton y
46, Walnut Street.
lArs SHIP
Will fail in a few days
For » ivannah in Georgia —For freight
SPltijjittzS or P®t a g e apply a» above, or to the
1 ou board.
February 17 ♦e'ldgt
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehaet, Majler,
Havingyte. t part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freigh' apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wabi.
February »6 4
. Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SAL It ,
f 8 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
TcnCri£«~£D. +B jrftrr
Old Port do. in hh
Trrtperial Tea in and eighths «f ehefts
Sail No. 1, to 8
Dirait'pes, and Muflinets. in packa
ges suitable for ths Weft India market
Nails affnrtert
Black quart bottles
Qneen* ware in hhds. and Crate*
Yellow ochre dTy in c fits ;
And at New-York, on hoard the
ftipt Diana, from Liverpool, round
as fnon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Goals
Spanish Brown "I
Venetian Rid |
KwS i fAINTS.
White Lead j
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 hondles Sheathing paper
Seamfrtg Ttoine
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm o f Philip Nicklin & Co.
is ripw eiiafige'' to
NICKLIN bf GRIFFITH.
January 1.
For Sale or Charter,
G °ODHO p E
Will clrry 1200 barrels, and
totakeinacargo. Forterms
fpply to
Pragers & Co.
Nrt. Ijl, South Second-street.
Wha hive for sale—prime S» Croix Sugir
and Ruth, Madera, L scon, and Teneriffe wins.
Navfmbef ?■ . . dtf
St. Croix Sugars.
a 6 hogrtieids heft ST. CROIX SUGAR,
f<Jr salß »y
JOHN NIXON £S* Co.
Fch. *1 fm.^wtf
Wanted,
An aflive, cleanly,.induftrious woman to cook
ad >36 the bufiiitfs i i the kX>.l.>n. -ffoik a. otic
ill be allowed good Wages, and no other needap
f .• —Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 S
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway servant Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
Sftiith, and fending her to North No.
45. *he is of a chunky make , and very dark
complexion, with round featcrct, and black bulhy
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow
ders, as she is luppofed to be secreted in houses of
111 fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
/ebraary 19. e'oiw
IN 7Hi. PRESS,
AND SPEEDILTf WILL BE PUBLISHED,
f Price 2 5 Cents J
flefle&ions on Monroe's View
or THE CONDUCT Of TBS EXECUTirS,
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
fn which thee ommercial warfare of France is
traced to the French fa<£lion in this country
is its source, and the motives of the opposition
to she measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8.
At a Meeting of the Prcfident
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
Re/chid, That ten dollarson each share of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
Rxtrafl from the Minntei.
CVORGE WOR i AL.I., Secretary.
A®ft£fiAßLE to a refolutiori of th« Prcfident
and Managers of the Dela-wart and Sctuyltill Canal
Clmpatty, the Stockholders are hersby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of tl« r
refpe&ive (hares on or before the ift of •> pril next,
to ' WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February »8. sawtA
PHIL ADE LP HI A: TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 6, 1798.
pv lobe Let on. Sharer, i
A valuable Farm ready flocked,
WITHIN 34 miles from Philadelphia, on the
weft fide »f Schuylkill, and Bear the turnpike.
It Uexpe&ed th tenant wll find luitable p*r
fans to take cart of a dairy Mid attend market,
with all other necessary labour.
ALSO, WANTSB,
A Gardener —a SingU Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, ualefs th=7 ean
bring good recommendation!.
Enquire m N*. Market-lhcet.
mirch 5. |
iTo be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches with a seat
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, &c- lituate on the Irifli traA lane, in
the townfis ip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gaxetto.
The improvements upon this place, far taste and
elegance Hand unrivalled.
N. B. l! tbe above place is not fold before the
loth in ft. it will thtn be rented, for the Summer
season only. § march 5.
Notice js hereby given,
THAT application will be ma e for the renewal
•f a Certificate of a Share la the Bank of th« 1
Unit 4 Stattn, Sanding in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 50c 4, and dated Jul* n, 1797—the fam<
having been last.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 6*
To be Said,
The time at a Negro Girl,
Eleven years of age, aid who has fevemeen
years to serve. She is lately from the country, is
haalthy, flrong and capable of doing tbe light
work of afmall family.—lnquire of the Printer,
march J. §
Ltr LA ND t\ T G,
From en Tjcmrtftltc Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AKO FOR SALS BY THE SU>SC*I*EX,
i6co bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
jo bales low priced piece Good*.
, John Miller, Jua.
march j ft
rHH. term of Co-partnerlhip between the I'ub
fcribcrs, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expircsthisday, and by mutual
tonfent wiH not be renewed* The debts and eon
ccrns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom aH those indebted to thepartnerfhip,
are earnestly requested to maka payment to, with*
•ut delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
. February 19 §tf
FOR SALE, bt
John Miller, jun.
N®. 8, Chefnut street,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—AMONGST WI4IGH AH
Gurrahs M.imeodie«
Baftaa Sannas
• Guzzenas TandaCoffaea
Guizies , Emm!— —-—a— _
Pllampoor* Romall Handkerehitffs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
Britilh Dry Goods,
ALSO)
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 $
Alex. J. Miller iff JamesDDavi t
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Es* Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
th y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia } where
they now have, and intend keeeping a general af
fojtment of India, Getmdrt, lrijb, French and Bri- |
tijb MannfaSuresfor sale, on advantageous termt
for cash or afhort creait.
Febr>a y 19 §tf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muflina, being the rt
mains of the ship India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
'>--1 "V- MordtCai Lewis.
Fobruaryi9 _____
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few chads of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine (Ireet-s. Dac 26—eotf
Landing this day,
From on boaad ths schooner Two FrienAs, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
« " d J Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
nmtenther 9. i
ROf-S & SIMSONf,
HATE TOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, ami
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, ")
St. Vincents, V RUM.
and Beagal j
300 caflts RICF., and
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
o<h. 27. $
Just Publiihed,
And to be had at tbe Book-ft ores of Meflrs. Dot
son, Campbell, Yoonc and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Rtmitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To -which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intereflitig fafls and reflections relative to
the Synochu 1 Idertidu, or Yellow Tever, which
has occafiuned so much diftref. and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,"
Felow of the Philadelphia College of £ hyficians,
and Member of the nmeric»n Philosophical So
ci.ty. Jreb.' l—*3l*ls
For Sale, )
By Elliston & John Perot,
AVtf Wt'v S-'reet, /
London particular Madeira Wine, in pifxs and
quart rcifki, 4 year! old wrd fit for immediate ufo.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allihai Cofles
Bandanna Handkcrchiels
Sail Canvass, No 1, to 4
A few bags #f Juoiper B>-rrits
A parcel of leather,
.v tew txHesof Chiua.
march \ t«Jtf4W
~ ' FOR SALE,
The Houl'e in Chafnut-ftreet,
NEXT door but on« to the comer of Fifth-ftreet, ,
occupieJ by. the fubferibsr. Its eligible fitaation
it well known—The rooms are spacious and con
venient, and finiihad in ahandfonre llile—-It has
a douHe Kitchen, aid excellent Cellars, with a> «
lee Houfeand rain water C ittern, and is a 1
Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms apply t» 1
GARRETT COTTRINCER.
march a. _ § lw ]
* TO LET r
And may h entered on immediatJy,
A good dry Store,
Three flories high, and in an excellent (land for
bnfiaefs. Apply to
Tkomat & JoJbua Fiber,
march i. $_ No. 5. Dock-ttyeet.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, msfter, from,
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, afibft- ■
ed to suit Welf India naarkat
40 higihead* Whiting
rjoo bufticl' giod House Coal*
Also —JUST I
4<"o barrels prinje Beef,- B olton and New»York
jo barrels fork
tje hhds. Havawia MelaflSa •• ,
Wooien Cloths T[
Blaukets S alorted in package*
Hard Ware J
Ravens Dock
Window Glass in boxes, Bri.-ifll, of variotrs fixes
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groc« each
A gentral affortmeiit of Queens' Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cafei
Baflcet fine Salt, in hogsheads
to* (All *Y j
Thos. & John Ketland. i
February 15 ftlM
FOR SALE, i
BT the s'ißscriberj, No. 11, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
ConftJlir>i of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Cofiaes Punjura Cloths 1
Sanaht Gu^Mydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tan jibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks *
Maharagonges- Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Malawi do.
Guzzenas Rand an noes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
>- • - Choppa Romali ■« J
:s»lratcl<r*-*; ~~rT~
Gillie Romaw Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicat*
too ton* SyOAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Csf Fransis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious iters the north well corner of
Market and Fourth-ftteets.
Also—A few Bales ef Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and btft celears.
February t. dtf
- - 1 ■ 1 1 ■ t ■
Landing
Front on board the Snow Maria, from C»£en
bagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
3 o pieces Ravens Duck
*SO pieces Russia Sheeting
aoo bolts Ruflia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
Por Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY fcf Co.
IV bo have on Hand,
rftaild id proof Bourdeaux Braedy
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-England Rum
Particular } Mide;ra Wine
London Market 5 * U " tM
Old Claret in Cases
14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Best Bo Hon Beef in barrels
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhodelfland Sheefe
Spermaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, 2, 3, Boston Sail Duck
Ruftia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass Ware.
March 1. . d»w
The Commissioners
FOR carrying into »SeA th«TWENTY-FIRST
Article of th« Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty and the
United States of America, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned—That- in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fuOained by the citifeens of the United States, in
conlequ«nce of their Yefiels :nd Cargoes having
bwn taken by the SnhjeSs of His Catholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc;,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by the fa id
Article, 4urmg eighteen months, from the day
' of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine all such persons as come bsfore ther.i, om
oath or affirmation, touching the com laints in
qurftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticatsd in such manner a*
1 they shall think proper to require or admit.
1 By Order of the CommiJJiat<crt y
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Ctmmijftoners Office, No. 109, Mulberry-
Jlr*t, Mav I Jib, 1797.
Feb. 18, *98 —sten
. Ttoft Printers in tie several Statu wis fublrfi
eJ the above ailvertiftment laj! Spring, are riqutfltd to
re-pltbl'Jb it one moith, and/end their aitovntt to t.L.
fbn FOR SJLR, bt
AVilliam Priestman,
No. If.'South Fifth-fret, next doer to ths War
Office,
A lai-g* assortment of Sitrer Watches
Time lUeper, by Arnold
Gold Watch, by Madgde and Duttotr
Ditto, Sll'cott
Ditto, H®"""
Double barrelled Gun, M"
Bitto,
Pair PHlois, Knttbky
60 lb. Sootch Thread
Two groce Watch Dial*,
Some gold Watck Hand*-. £
■ Ready money given for any quantity ot mi-
ver or other watches. march z *6t
THE Subscriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a prifou will S
attend every day, Sundays excepted* until the ill
of April next, froth the hours of 10 o'clock in the
morning till j o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied lay him in Cheftint-flrcet, for
the putpofe of (hewing all books, papers and let.
ters regarding his past commercial tranfa&ions to
such of his creditor, as tniy think proper to attend g
and examine them, f
JAMES GREENLEAF. {
match I. t eot I A t j
Thick Medium Paper,
suitable for copptr-plate printing n
Knjtijk and American WRI TING PAPSR t |
PARCHMENT and VEU.UM
For Sale by
Joseph and James Cruijlatti,
No. 17, Kigh-llreet.
mavli 3- 'eo.^t
Red Clover Seed of tl*e best quality, i
MADEIRA WINE, \
Old, and fit for immediate life, in pipes, half t
pipes aud Quarter cafics. J
'l'encriffe Wine, 0
And, Window 01af«—all of vMiieh wjil be fold
on vtry reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. p, Deck Street. (
march I w&>tf
For Sale,
A good iituation for a Country Seat, (
I*ORTY acres of land on the Old York Road, c
within fight of Germantown and about fiv« miles j
frera the City, the whole being uudcr good fence,
j and in excellent order as paflur* ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jons Elliott Ckesson, at his office for the ■
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54>
High-Areet.
ad mo. »6iH. 4aw»w
A PRINT. '
rHE Print, repenting Genexal Washing
to* and his fimily, all whole lenrths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the 45th of J
March next.
As untinilhed impression is to be fcen at Mr. M'El- *
wees's looking-glals (lore No. 70 South Fouith Street. '
Tne fubfeription will close on the 10th of March I
next. Sub r c ibers may depend on having the bell 1
Prints at one gninet and an half.. To »on-.ubfcriberi, |
the piice wjll be two guineas. |
February 19. . '
~Bofton Glass Manufactory.
«Tin»-i4tU.. vr»iUc<i .hsr-4»T
X informed, that the mtnufa&ure r! Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass Houfc in
Bol'.on. '
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Bod. 11 Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States Mbe in- every res»
pc4l greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any fixe commoaly used $ and
may be canftantly had by applying to Cbariet f.
Kuffer, at theGlaf- Heute
Orders from the distant States to be addrefTed to
Mr. Sam/el Gore, C»»rt-ftr#et, Boston.
Two or thrcv f;od»l Glass mak rs are want,
td at the above works; as caß produce r»-
commendations for good behavior, may be Cure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the works. Men without families w ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Boflon. January 16 1 Sawtw
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL eommence drawing Monday, tfce aeth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollar', at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dallarx, where check books are kept (or register
ing and examining in these, the City of WafliLng
ton, No. 11.and Patturfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bisfinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcosating Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Land*, Houses, 3te. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 1 s • §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-ftrcet,
INFORMS thoft who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeit in the French Lan
guage,that hehas just opened his Library, con
[ lifting of upwards of 1 joe volumes, the baft cal
. culated to afford either ufefui inftru&ion, or plea*
1 fiire. The eoaditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-fellcr'a
is town.
, tj. s. All translations from and into the French,
. Englilh and Spanilb Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eotwi nc-j. ij.
Prison Manufaftory.
I FOR SALE, ,
' At the Prison of the City and County of PbiladeW
> phia,
1 Cut Nails of all fixes, froirj 3dy to aody
1 Flooring Brads, Spriggs, fiddle and card Tacks
- Oakum and chipped Logwcod
• Shoemakers and Sailers Thread
Alfb —Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Itones, hearths, chimney pieacs,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heals, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and We»ving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dilliocc, dir?Aed to Daniel Tho
« mas, agent for the pqifou, will be attended to.
Decern!)«r ii. rr.li.6m
, Edward Duij^NTy
No 149, South Tront-ftrett,
Has Oill remaining of the Cargo of the JobanM,
from Malaga#
66 kegs Sun Raisins
91 jars Bloom ditto
I fuparior Catalonia Wine
*1 hhds. J „ , j
Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hogfhcads and
quarter cafic*
Aad a few <jr alb ftnaoid Colemenar w toe.
He taj alft, mfexvfMcUfyt ef
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
Con&fti. g of Humhums. Tickcrie*, Paro%Chint«,
Baftdunua, I'allicat and Barhar Handkerchiefs,
c'lioppa Ri.mals, black and coluared Ferfians, and
black Pepper. '
0' Wanted—A Male and Female
SERVANT, of unexceptionable ohar»aers.
march I. *",tcod. _
N O T I C E.
XXry&RIAS a Certificate ta Hannah 3"«-.
V T lt, of Owed Cottage, in tV Couniy of
Surro.in Oreaf Brjtwio, Spinllcr, or. her illigns,
for two thodiund five hundred and Gxty-tww
!vs twenty-thre* cent*, in the deferred ftoak el
the United Stares, \vH loft in the ftip f'gg7t
; Capt. Hyer, bound from H>ila<Mphia to London
ia the Jtii 1796. The m'.fcriher, the Lid Han
nah Shellyt intend* to apply to the Trtafury ol
the United States, for a renewal ot the said I ,t»
Ufic4tC ' HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 33.
"notice
IS hereby given, that the Sublcribef, a" infoj.
vent debtor, confined in the caramon goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New.
Jrrfey, hath presented hi# petition to the Judge*
of the Inferior Court of Common Fleas, in an 4
for the ftitf county, praying that they wbuld ,
attend to hear what can be atledged for or
gainfl his liberation, pursuant to an of tM
Legiflatufe of this State,entitled "an a<S for
the relief of infolrent debtor*," paflid the x6th
day of January 1798— And the the fa<d court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at th*
Court House in the tyl'ddle P'ecinft, at eievetj
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, or wbicjl
his creditors are requeftad to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN,
Cape May> FeW. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —iawtw
Valuable Property for bale,
Fo'< SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS.
BURY FARM, formerly the rcQdence of
Cenaral John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri«
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acre* of prim* LAND, upwards of joO
«f which ar* in woods. The Buildings, are all ex.
cellent, and confifl of a haadfome Dwelling House,
two Urge Barns with Caw houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, *
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick)', Corn houles, a Smoal*
house , See. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
furroanded by water, it require* J>ut 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shai and Htrring fifheiy. It is
conrenisptl? fit j*(ad for both the Philadelphia and
Caltimort markets, with two landings on a navi.
gable rivtr but a short fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchard* 00.
the piemiissj also/ a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.-* *■
The whole will b« fold together, or divided inta
fmajler farms (for which the buildings are eonven.
ientfy situated) at may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting ol Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of. . .For further
particulars apply to Gioiot Hastings, on th«
premises, or to the fuhfenber. in fhiladelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, , vw .
February 14. aaw6w
To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot
thereto belonging, : n the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three room*
below, and three chambers in the upper story.
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil ing. Tha
Lot has » front of 7a <eet on Pearl-Areet, and
the fame front on the rjver Delaware. The
length of the Lot is about 150 feet—The hoafe
commands a very pleafanr profpedl of the river
and of the Borough of Bristol, on the Pennfyl
vania (bore. Irrfraediate poflefiion may be had'
For furthar particulars, inquire of Mr. John
Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi.
ladtlphia, or the subscriber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE.
B «ti;igton, march 1. *e«Hzw
TO LET,
And poffefiien given the ill April next,
The House No. 258 High-ftrcet,
At present o aupicd by P. Bbtlcr, Esq.
• Applyte
Edward Shoemaker,
No. l»7, High ftrcet
February 24 eod 3w
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground /
SITUA TE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State
• fquare., This lot rs fifty-one feet front
■ on Walnut street, *nd one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
■ present two small two story brick house*, and t
'■ number of fan all tenements thereon.
1 Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
' With convenient ftAre*, wharf, Btc. flruate on
Water street, between Mulberry anj SafTafra*
Streets, containing in front on Water street sis.
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These house*
. have the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fafior, or other*
who m3y have occalion for storage of good*.
This property will he fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further infortr ation apply
i, t» the printer.
. f"'v it- mv wt f
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reasonable terms, by applying at No.
North-llreet, t>et\y«c ?tlth ani Sistb-ftreets
Fsbrpary »j. Foijt
£Vom/MI XIII,s
TUESDAY EVENING, Maich 6.
To the Editor »f the JnittJ States Gazette.
No. 11l
SIR.
At a time when the picaroons of Great-Bri
tain toek and detained tHeui for id
judipatio«; though-failing under a neutral fl*g,
it ill readily he that the antifede
raU in this eourftry, hoik in c»n«ref» out,
clamoured aloi'd for war. Measures were even
taken to plunge us ist« that fit-aation not by
O'jrfelves.kut in conjunction with the French—
that we mii:ht unitedly go and -t 'oaftife Great-
Britain. This bsfineiii was managei so art
fully as to enlist the palA»n« ot many well
meaning mm, before they had reflrfled npdi'?
the Unprailicablityoffucha Qulxntte-enterpi ;ze.
And when Prcfident Wafliinjrton thought prop
cr to try to accommodate the differences _be
twetn<tl|e two countries by pacific Rtgaciaiio*,
aid nominated an envof for that pu' pose, the
aptifederals reviled him—his judgment, his pa
triotism, his integri'y, were ail arraigned and
condemned, like " fufpe&ed" persons before a
Frtri'Ch revolutionary trjWunaJ. No calamity
eould have befallen Mr. Jay fuffici-'nt to gratify
their malevolent hearts. Ottcn did they -a ifh
that th'e Hlgennes might catch him, and inflidl
on him ibe ftrvi-reft torments. Often HM thty
wilh thatthe Britilh wou 3 canfinr him in an iten
i head-rale and collar, (as the fouth>rners do their
ret'racflory negroes) and feed him On bran and
w'ater. Oft n did they wish that Heaven would
hiirl its lightening in vengeance at himT that
he might never reach land. These things I
have riesrd ; heard them from democrats anr*
were it nec< ITary, I could nime the persons, the
timei ind (he phces. But, as they are faft de
eTinuig. I hope they will (horty fink into irre
mediable tonmfginefs— at leafi, no voluntary
of mine shall ever contribute to rescue them
from olilivion ; even to consign them to their,
better merited infamy. »
War was then the defirible objeA with the
benevolent,the difintsrelled antifederals—it was j
vocifecaterfin the hall of the democratic society
at Philadelphia From that dark cell it iflued in
opposite dire<\ions ; it- bent its ciurfe north and
south, flyirtgwith (he rapidity of lightening, un
til jt had reached the remotest bounds of our
|Rnd ; and, like the deTlroying angel, it mark
ed its proprefs with fire and blood. Nothing
would fitisfy it em but 3 war v with Great Bri
tain- The latter, however, liftmed to pattfic
terms ; our d-fferencca wer; pacifically and hon
ourably adj'jfled,, and oui antifederals still kept
up. the clamour. But the times are now chang
ed. Great-B r itain is indemnifying and remu
nerating thole from wham Pic- made illegal cap
tures and France has aflumed the right of dis
posing of our commerce. She has taken from
uj five ta their one, <vi;hou't t'ven a " pretext"
hi her j.iliiiration—tor, fl»ot,ld anvone lay that
the BritiGi tr aty was a " prtttxt," thepo'fiti n
will de/lrov itfelf litice they began the cap
tures 10.. p- bef re that treaty was made. But
let us luok a iirtlc faither. What has became
rise antifideral c.'arSrtiir for war ? Our Ipfa of
j-,rop»rty, and the insult offered to our flag by
the Bntifii, was then the avowed reafen for go
ing tn war; *[iaihis witliout even trying a pa
- cine ncgociation. But, since the Jjreacli have
• their ravages upon our property ;
committed our Teamen to prif >ll-~*ips ; taken
. from us morolliaii five tirnts the num''er bfVef
fels. and more than ten times the sum in prop
eriy ; since they have al.nofl annihilated our
foreiirn trade—rotv. irhfianding pacific negocra
tion has been tried and faiM —notwithftandu>r
the natioM has seen grossly infutted in the per
lon ot their eommifiitiner—*iotwhh!Unding ihe
pacific nepociation r, .'•*—j
time, and t»iled, under Aggravated iti
fult—notwithllariding the antifederals Vauti •
(heir unalienable iffr<s>ion for the Olignity ai l j
independence of the United States, not a lisp Is
naiv heard of <ivar. Jn the fliort' term of tw<.
y-jrs, from the faiigninary yell of the tygcr, c
(hey are foftened do 'n t'i th Toothing bteat(i.g j
o<the laml?. How happens this ? Let t em
furnilh the. reply. Mr. Gallatin, however C
thinks, that if the French new to render j
us jufiice, he (hall, after the event is promu!
gated be for union and energy to obtain it * Mr
Gal athi, in the true jefuite stile, always quali
fies his declarations like the heathen ' sooth
fayers of old. m that cauti'Hi* ambiguity «h ch
» I !mit,ofvan usccmUrudtion ; andhtdoes t
nor want fur ingenuous f phiflry wnich ,£
en 1 les him to conflrue them so fiat the prefetit
oecafion, hethat what it may. Bjt now noth v
ing is heard from the antifederals but encomi- jj
uras upon the great, the generous, jtht terrible,
the invincible republic. Nothing must hi-w be? '
done btit to depreegte her rage to flatter her am e
bition ; tokifstherod with.srhich(he :sfco»rg-
ing us. How come, it to pass that the antifede
rals are so changed ? .Vhv were th«y formerly
so resolute to goto war with Great-Britain, aid.
now so ave.'fe from it with France ?Isit be ..
cause the form.r had given us marecaufe ttan
the latter? This is too flagrant a falfthood eve h
for them t« pretend- I»»it because we $ ;r<- t i
better able to cope with the former than the lat ""
ter ? Who pretends this ? It is too absurd even •>
for Mr. Nicholas. But, fiy they, what (ha- a
we gain by going to war ? (Why was not thi- '
enquiry advanced three years ago ?) 1 will un
dertake the anftt-er. We (hall get rid of Frecic! r<
influence ; we (hall get rid of French, men ; wc
♦hall get a protection for our commerce ; an;
we shall silence the violent philipics against our
constituted authorities, which our antifederala
are incessantly difgorg ng upon them. B»t how
is it that the antifedtrals are so changed with
refpeift to war ? Tilt question is worthy of be
ing repeated. The truth is, they are not chang h
ed ; it is the objeff of -vengeance whiih is chang
ed. Foimerlyit was England ; now it is France ;
their mother, their filler, their ntirfe, their dear j
loving, concubine, (for (he merit,
all these titles ia their opinion) is bdw the in
truder. But her hallowed ban Js are not to be h
refilled ; her consecrated fleps are n#t to be mo d
leftid j her religions rites of pil'age, murder,
conflupration, rapine, and athcifm. are to fan. - 3
tify the temple of reason and philosophy, whert c
mankind are to bicome prrfecled j tothistem P
pie our antifederals are aspiring, and lam rea- a
dy TO agree that they ara fit candidates for ad ii
miOi n J they have already passed their novi |j
ciate ; and in two years more, if French influ- :
ence is notchetked in this cduotry, they wjl!
graduate fully infilled to a diploms. You wi!l "
thetefore observe Sir, that this seeming incon- *
fiftency is reconciled. The antlfcderaU are uot
changed ; but since this is th x e c fe, tluc Fiance il
mull feel the influence of a war, if mje do fight, a
they think it a pity that so kiijd, l„ ~U r e, Ih'h >ly* ,
so perfectly difutc rested an objeil lbould ever be
• Vid. Debates on the motion of the commit-
tee, to <whcm was referred the /late of the Union c
to reyort by bill. I frefume Air. Ga.latin will t
remember it, ifitfhould be fur the inter eft ofh s 1
fart). QutJZoklJ btjkrgr! it, JJI»H not. t
Lr CONGR ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Bri- MONDAY—MARCH
if- Mr. Livingston presented the petition of
John Whittle, a foltiier in the late war pray
:<'e ing for cdmpeufatisn. Referred to thecom
°"t ' mittee of claim*.
Alfo the petition of Joseph Wheaton,
b_ Sergeant at Arms, praying for an increase
eit- of compehfatton for his fervices.—'Referred
art- to the committee of wayi and means
"" Mr. D. Foater, front the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable repoitoutbe
Q Z p' petition of George Heerhoufe, which was
be- concurred in by the house.
ion. The fame gentleman observed, that Jie
the thought it p#6per that attention fhoul'd be
■ pi- paid to the encouragement of the Fine Art*
'l' 3 and particularly t« the arts of designing and
f ";. a engraving which had already made collide
,ij r y rable prugrefi in this country. The proper
* ifh wa 7 doing this, he supposed would be to
Hi<st secure to artists a property in their works,
hey In order to bring this business before the
■ ion house, he proposed a resolution for apppoin
ting a committee to enquire into thepropri
>uld et y aB J( S for this purpose, .which
that was to, and a committee of three
s j appointed. , -
an'' Mr Clopton presented a petition from
the John Ellifoli, praying for 2000 acres of land
de- in the North Western Territory, for the
rrf * purpose of raining at two doilars'an acre.—
iem Re' er , rc d to the committee who has the
leir. North \yeftero territory land under consi
deration.
the The Following important meflage with
*'as the documents accompanying it, were recei
e|y I ved - from the President of the United
I State. :
md I %
>ur I Gentlemen of the Senate and
•k I Gentlemen of the hotife ofrefreftntalives,
The iirft difpatchcs from our envoys
lie I extraordinary since their arrival at Paris,
111 " were received at the Secretary of State's
j oflice, at a late hour the last evening
u-J They are all in a character, which %vill
jj." j require some days to be deciphered, ex
m ce P t t ' ie . la st which is dated the Bth of
■ j January, i y/jB, the contents of this let-
a n I ter are of so much importance to be im
p. I mediately made known to Congress, and
"I I tLr public, especially to the rnercan
of I t '' c P art of our fellgw-citizens, that I
<y I have thought it my duty to communicate
a . j t0 both Houlcs without loss of time.
e I JOHN ADAMS.
: j United States, ?
f March s th, ijg y.'J
Ir ( No - 5•)
\ Paris, January Bth, 1798,
r I Dear Sir,
rr r>. 1 t . _
to lend yx>u the "Redadteur" of the
■ixth instant, contain/ng the meflage of
the Directory to the Council ofFive Hun
'(s lred, urging the necelEty of a law tode
r, j clare as good prize all neutral ships hav
ng.on board merchandizes and commo
dities, the produdtion of England, or of £
I' I the Engliih possessions, that the Flag, as '
r . rhey term it, may no longer cover the c
' property. And declaring further that the v
I I i>orts of France, except in cafe of dif- n
■s irefs, shall be Ihut against all Neutral 3
M-ihips, which, in the courfc of their
voyage, ihall have touched at an Engliih
- I port. A commission has been appointed
: to report on and it is exp»&-
•d that a decree wilLbe pa/Fed in confor- \
I Tiity to it. {
Npthing new has occurred since our c
1 I last, in date of the twenty-fourth ultimo- e
IWe can only repeat that there exists no [
I lopes of our being officially received by j
J this Government, or that the objects of
, I our million will be in any way accom- '
I plilhed. 1
We have the honor to be with great ,
I refpett, your most obedient servants. \
Charles Cotssworth
, I J. Marshall.
E. Gerrv. v
I Timothy Pickering, I£fq.
I T RANSLATI6N. j
1 M f ]F a g e of the Executive DtreSory to the Coun. r
cil of Five Hundred of the Aivofe, a
6th year, January iygß.) (
CITIZENS REPRESENTATIVES,
1 o day the 15th Nivofe, and at the tery i
hour at which the Executive Direftory ad
drefles this meflage to you, the municipal f
administrations, the justices of th# peace, the s
commiffiaries of the Direftory, and the fu- t
pervifors of the customs, are proceeding, in f
all the chief places of the departments, and 1
in all the principal communes of the Repub- p
lie, to feiae the Etiglifh merchandize now
in France, or introduced upon its territory c
I in the contraventien of the law ol the loth t
Brumaire, sth year (Qdobcr 31ft, 1796.) c
t _ Such is the firft aft which, when peate c
; is given to the continent, the war declared j
» a long time since againll England, is about t
• to aflume its geauinecharafter. The French 1
will not fufler a power, which strives to
found its prosperity upon the misfortune of ]
~ other nations, to raise its commerce upon
II the ruin of that of other peaple, and which
J alpiring to the domination vf the seas, with- <
es to iotrgduce, everywhere, article* i
tbc p'rodnceofherman'-ifaftorics. Irhas
violated all the principles of the law of na
tions, in order to shackle- the relations of
neotral powers: it has can fed to be ; e
the provitions, grain and commodities, which
it fuppoftd to be defiined for France: it
has declared contraband every thing which
p it thought ufeful to the Republic: it desir
ed to starve it. AH the citizens demand
. vengeance upoir it.
When it had to fear the capture of vef
f fels failing undei. its flag, it corrupted fo
reign captains to. induce thevn to take on
1 board their vcflels English merchandize, ana
thus to introduce it,by cunning,by. fraud or
f otherwise, into foreign- States, and efpsci
f ally into «h« French Republic.
s The'neutral powers should have perceived
that, by this conduft, their merclwnts took
. a part in the war, and that they lent aflift
» ance to the belligerent powers.
t Wc serve a party, as well when we pro
-1 cure for him the means of augmenting his
forces, as when we unite ourfelvcs to those
r which he has, The neutral powers Ihould
j have perceived, that England, by flopping
the vcflels of other powers, laden in their
■ rcfpe&jve parts, a»d deflined for France,
. by perrai'ttisg articles coming from her own
. manufactories alone to circulate, aimed at
i an extenfivc commerce, and that it would
; be neceflary to seek reparation for such an at
tempt.
i The ordinauce of the marine re
| gulation of 17 4,, ha=ve declared to be good
> prize, the vefTels and their cargoes in which
is found Englife merchandize belonging to
1 enemies. These provisions fliould .be ex
tended. The interest of Europe demands
it.
, The Dir*&ory thinks it urgent aid ne
cefTary to pass a law declaring that the con
dition of vefTels, wi what concerns their
quality of neutral or enemy, (hall be deter
mined by their cargo, and that the cargo
(hall be no longer covered by the flag} in
consequence, that every veflel fouad at sea,
; having on board Englilh merchandize and
commodities, as her cargo, in whole or in
part; shall be declared to be good prize,
whofoevcr may be the proprietor of these
commodities or merchandize; which (hall
be reputed contraband, for this cause alone
that they come from England or her pofTef
. fions.
.It would be ufeful to declare at the fame
t,ime, that except in the cafe of distress, the
ports of the Republic {ball be (hut to all so
reign vefTels, which, in the course of their,
voyage, shall have entered those of Eng
land.
The Executive Directory requests you,
Citizens Representatives, to adopt these
measures. No neutral er allied power can
mistake their objeft, nor complain of them,
unless it be already delivered up to England.
1 he infallible eSedt of the measure is to en
hance the value of the produft of their foil
and of their iuduftry, to increase the prof
penty of their commerce, to repel every
thing that comes from England, and efTen
tialiy to influence the eonclufion of the war.
'iiwli. ■■■■ " 1 I ' ll,l "iW.r tUt
Executive Dire&ory to invite you, citizens
representatives, to take the ohjeit of this
meflage into the mod prompt consideration.
(Signed )
P. BARRAS, President.
LAGARDE, Secretary-General
This meflage wa£ ordered to be printed I
and committed to a committee of the whole
on the ftateof the Unidn.
The house again resolved itfclf into a
committee of the whole, on the bill to pro
vide the means of Intercourse with foreign
nations ; when Meflrs. Reed, R. Williams
and Bayard spoke against the ara«ndment,
and Mr. W. C. Claibiyne in favor of it.
At theconclufipn of Mr. Bayard's speech
(which was very long) thequeftion wasloud
ly called for.
Mr. Brent rose» and was about commen
cing some observations in reply to Mr. Bay
ard, when the cry of « the qiieftion" was
still continued. He fat down, and some
conversation took place for and against the
committee's rising ; but on Mr. Brent's
faying he did no wi(h the committee to rife
on his account, the question for riling was
put and negatived.
The , queflion was then put upon Mr.
Nicholas's amendment, anfl negatived, 52
to 48.
A motion was then made for the commit
tee to rife, and ask leave to fit again, which
was negatived.
The bill was proceeded with.
• Mr. S. Smith moved to (Irike out certain
words, and to insert otheis 10 this effect .
" That the President of the United State 3
shall not allow to any minister plenipotenti
ary to France, Great-Britain or Spain,
more than 9,000 dollars per annum, nor to
any otherminifter plenipotentiary more than
.6,000 dollars."
This amendment was negatived, there be
ing only 47 votes in its favour.
The blanks in the bill weT« next to be
filled ; the firft, which was the permanent
allowance, was filled with 40,000 dollars ;
the next, which was an extraordinary ap
propriation for this year, with 28,650 dol
lars. Before the latcer sum was agreed u
pon,
Mr.Livingft on enquired whether the sum I
of betwixt 2 and 3,000 dollars, which he
thought had been lavished away, said to be
expended on persons taking leave from this
country, was included in the incidental ex
pences which were contained under this
head. He thought such an expenditure of
money forbidden by the constitution.
Mr. Harper believed the insidental ex
pences mentioned in the. estimate were ex
pences of our ministers abroad.
Mr. Nicholas underltocd that three Se
cretaries were at present allowed the mission
at present is France, He thought this was
- 1 ■- -------
had thought tht law would not have war
ranted the praftice; examining it, he
supposed it did. / k,.
Mr. Harper said, every minister employ
ed was entitled to a fecretaiy, the President
had accordingly appointed one to each, and
he could pot fee ; upon what ground- the
hoiife'could object to appropriating for their
salaries. , .
Mr. Nicholas aufwered, that as the law
admitted of it, he lhould not o'.jea to the
appropriation ; but he should move an a
mendiaent to prevent more lhau one .ecre
tary. to a mission in future.
The committee then rofeand reported toe
bill with the amendments ; which being ta
ken up in the house and agreed to, Mr. Ni
cholas renewed his amendment to limit- the
salaries of Ministers Plenipotentiary to Lbn
don, Paris and Madrid, te 9.000 dbllavs a
year, and all others to 4,500 dollars, and
called the yeas and nays upon it, which
were taken as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baldwin, Baird, Benton, Bloaiit,
Brent, Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, T. Clai
borne, W. Claiborne, Clay, Clopton, Da
vis, Dawfon, Elmendorf, Findley, Fow
ler, N. Freeman, Gallatin, Gillefpie,
Gregg, *Hanna, Harrifon, Havens, Heif
ter, Holmes, Jones, Livingfton, Lacke,
Lyon,Maeon,M'Cleha ;haa,M«Dowe!l,M T
edge. New, Nicholas, Jofiah Parker, Skiirfier,
S. Smith, W. Smith, Sprigg, Stanford,'
Sumpter, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van Cort
landt, Varnum, Venalle—.-48.
NATS.
Meflrs. Allfn, Baer, Bartlett', Bayard,
Brookes, Bullock, Champlin, Chapman,
Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana, Dennis,
Dent, Evans, A. Foster, D. Foster, J
Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon, Grif
wold, Grove, Harper, Hartley, IJindman,
Hofmer, Iwlay, Lyman, Machir, Mat
thews, Morgan, Morris, Otis, Ifuac Par
ker, Reed, Rutledge. Schureman, Sew»H r
Shepard, Sintjickfon, Siigrear«, N. Smith,
Sprague, Thatcher, 1 homa*, Thonjpfon,
Tillinghaft, Van Ale-n, Wadfworth, J.
Williams, R. Williams.—s2.
Mr. S. Smith then renewed hit tnstion
for limiting the salaries of ministers to Lon
don* Paris and Madrid, to 9,000 dollars,
and others to 6,c00-dollars, and-called the
yeas and nays upon it, which were taken,
and were exactly the fame as upon the for
mer queflion.
Mr. Nicholas then made his motion to
copfioe futuremifT.oßoto one'fecretary, which
>vas negatived 50 t0,45.
The bill was theu ordered to be cogruffed
for a third reading tt>-morrow.
Adjourned at 5 u'clock.
BOSTON, February 24.
CAMBRIDGE.
The sons at our Univerjity never let flip
any opportunity of doing honor to the cha
racter they so much admire. In one of the
circles met to celebrate the birth day of the
Hero of Mov tf Vernon, among othef toasts
wtre the following
man brave without temerity, laborious with
out ambition, generous without prodigality
noble without pride, and virtuous without
severity, cheers in pantomime, for fear of
ciyturhiug the Tutor.
2. JOHN ADAMS, President of the
United States, the American Terminus.*
3 cheers in pautomime, &c.
1. Thomas Jeffeffon, May' he exercise
his elegant literary talents for the benefit of
the world, in some retreat, secure from th.t
troubles and dangtrs of political life.
4. The Senate, the Speaker of the house,
and 53 of its members.
5. The constituted authorities of this
University; may the government of our own
choice, never be afiailed by Jaeobinifm.
* Terminus vjui the God of boundaries
among the Romans, -who swore he would lict
stir an inch for Jupiter.
BALTIMORE, February 28.
Among the moll disagreeable of our du
ties, we have feljJom felt more pain in re
lating the tale* of woe, than we now do in
mentioning the loss of the (hip A nl hony
Maiigin, captain Sanford, of this port, be
longing to Mr.- A. Brown, junior;- None
of the crew are left to tell the the fad story
of their misfortune, so that as yet, particu
lars c annot be had, or formed only by con
jecture. A. Pilot who arrived lafl evening
from Norfolk, informs, that the mate's
trunk and several other articles of the above
veflel, were picked up, floating near the
Middle Grounds, on Tuesday, the 20th
inftaat, and carried into the above place ;
ar.d that the veflel was supposed to have
got on the breakers, and dashed to pieces
the preceding night, as the wind blewflrong i
at east, and a tremendous fta was rolling. ■
The veflel and cargo were 'principally in
sured, so that their.loss will be only par.
tially felt ; but the psflengers and crew.,
there is but too much cause t« believe, have
met a watry grave. Captain Sanford was
highly refpeited, and his fate cannot but be
extremely affliaing to his friends ; this cor.-
folation, however, they have left, that what
ever calamity may have befallen him, nei
thcr Pxill nor care could have*verted it.
Subscription t all.
MR FRAN Cl* rrfve&fully inform* the fuV> i
fcribcr® that the Second Bal' of the pr.fint
fill f riptio will b on Tuesday the 6th of March
Ladies Tickets to be had of tha fubferibera or
011 application ro Mr no. 70, north Eighth
rlreet,. Non-fuh r ci iption 1 Ickets to he had of
Mr. F. at his house, or at the Aflerahly Room.
i'icluts as ufml. march r
To Let,
About 30 acres of ground, with a good house,
gardeu, stables, &c.ibour 4 1-2 mi:es from town.
Immediate uoffeffion may be hi'l
PETER BLIGHT.
February 27 §iot
lujnuun, Dec. 22.
T VVu 4I TTV nd , ?rir ? C '™rt <
Ireland have iffucd a proclamation A«£*
ing the baronies of CoQimorc ai«KV-.L T
Decies within Drum, and DecioC r '\i'
Drum, and Glanahiry ; and also tht" J/,n
es of Kiln and Ballylaletn, in the b<*L
of Middlethird, in the county of Water
ford to be in a st ate 0 f dilturbance, b
which they are put out of the king's peace
I-ord Ku.gfton is to be tried without de
lay in the high Steward's court, by the I
riih peers, as soon as the grand jury hav
fjund sheohdiament against him, for fl, o0 t
lag Loi. Fuzgera'H.
_ Admiral fir Alan Gardner Invest own 0
Tue day next, to take on him the comrtan
of the fqusdron Cor the protection of Ir«
larKi. •
A part of fir Alan Gardner's fleet h;
arrived off the Cove of Cerk. The whol
will consist of 12 fail of the line Bnc j f r ;
gates, which with those under the c4 mman
of admiral Kingfmill, being five of the li n(
several frigates, armed brigs, cutters, & c
his naval force.will be perfedly capable c
Tefifting any fleet of transports that the en
emy can procure,for an ir.vafion of Trelanc
A letter from the Hague, dited Dec. t
. fays " Rear admiral Meyner hasanive
here from England ; and admiral De Wir
ter is hourly expe&ed from Ara&wdatr
where he has been condn&ed in a form;
procession from his own houle to the'coui
cil-houfe, where he was invited to a puhli
breakfalL In the evening he was prefer,
at a dramatic entertainment given in hone
of the admiral himfelf."
December 23.
According ta a corred lift of the kffle
and wounded on beard the Dutch fleet,j
the engagement of the nth of Odobt/
they amounted to 340 killed, and 60
wounded.
j In the fitting of the 24th November tl
| committee of marine, of Holland, gave i
j for ordering tiie fleet of De Winter to' pi
' tofea. ,'J. hty ft.ite ihe damage the' Eng
lifh had fuffeied in a storm ; the mecefTit
j there whs to do away .the disgrace their flee
fuffered by be-ing blockaded up in the Tej.
el ; and tbeir deiire to give the failWrs i
opportunity to refute the calumnious rejfcrt
f of their biiog attached to the Stadthotfk
■ under which they had labored evtr fmce tl
surrender of the fleet of admiral Luca
They add, that they had laid no embargi
on account of the injury itmuft oecafion 1
trade ; and to prevent the enemy from c«i
eluding from it, that it wa« intended tl .
fleet should put to sea.
A meeting was held en Wednesday at tl
audit honfe, Southampton; at the reqtie
of the priucipal inhabitants, the mayor 11
the chair, when some spirited and appropr«
ate refclutions were entered fffto expreflb
of their disapprobation of the present ii
quifitorial bill before-the house of common „
and direfling their ryprefentatives Mr. An
yett, and Mr. G. Rose, tooppofe its pa
sing into a law.—The oppressive and ruii *
ous were ably represented '
o—ti; ivn^—H '
• chols ; and so unanimous were the inliab
tants, that fcar.celyany opposition was di
ticed, except from Mr. Smith, colleflor 1
the cuftotr.s ; Mr. Sutherland, comptroll
of excite ; Mr. Galpine, agent to Mr. Rof
fen. and Mr. Mockton, agent for prisoners
but even the biassed voices of these gentle
men were fearcely audible.
December 29.
The following is an extra& of a let*
from an officer on board the Phcebe frigati
dated Plymouth Sound, Dec. 25 :—" It
with lingular fatisfaflion I inform you <
th? capture of La Nereide, of 36 twelr
pounders, and 320 men, by the Phcebe, i
lat. 48. 58. and weft long. 8* 4. We di
covered her in the morning of the 21 ft, an
came to aftion about nine P. M. We lo
fight of her for some time, and the u.oul
probably have got off, but for a fortunat
change in the wind, that ,cleared away th
fog, which had been so thick that we coul
irot fee twice the length of the (hip. Sh
cut our rigging and fails very much in con
ing, up with bfr. aiul u-vkw near, fh
tack-rd and gave us a broadside in palling
which was returned by us. We immedi
ately tacked and flood after Tier, and at ter
came up with her again, and brought he
j to close adlion on the larboard tack, whicl
! was continued till eleven, When (lie (truck
j The aftiou was very severe, from lierbeinj
| so close as to be nearly aboard of us, anc
; blowing at the fame time so fre/h that ou
i Ice guns were at times in the water. Wi
| had three men killed, and ten wounded, am
j some of them very severely ; but there is
no officer among them. La Nereide had 11
killed and 5 5 wounded, and of the lattei
1i j have died finee the ad\ion. She is near
j ly as large as the Phcebe, and was viftualletl
for four months."
December 30.
The example of Loudon, ins regard to
the afleffed taxes is following over the whole
kingdom. Bath, BrLftol, Abingdon, &e«
have passed resolutions against the measure.
The Earl of Orraond, and others, have
instituted a committee at Kilkenny, in Ire
land, to rrceive information against United
far an A have—rrif»J HTSraijli
and concealment to informers !
According to letters received yesterday
from FaWiouth, we learn that the Phceni*
Portuguese frigate, having the- Marquis de
Pombciro on board ij on fliore near that
place. ,
The advices received frem the court ot
Poitugal has occasioned a very fudd*n an
unexpected change ; lu's excellency count
de Pombeiro with his lady aad suite lc '
town on Monday morning early fur that
country ; the count had taken a honfe'®
Bakcr-ftreet, Portmaa square, for a t*« vc