Daily Advertiser;
%
Numbea > 815.J
CONG R £ S S.
HOU§E OF RBPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, June 14-
MR, J. PARKER afk-d and obtained
leave of ablence for three weeks ;
Mr. Dennis for two weeks ; and Mr.
Mjoxg.an 'or the remainder of the session.
Mr. Thatcher called up the resolution
which he some time ai»o laid upon the tale,
•diredling the P ;(lnull;r General to prepare
and report at the next session. such as fyf-
Astn a» .1i 11 in one all the law he e.
•jofore puffed on the fubjeift of P.i'f Office
and Post Roads, adding to his report such
Btber new roads as he thinks it wr.uld be rx
ptdic-nt to eltablifh, which v as agreed to.
Mr. T. then moved to refer all the peti
tions which had been presented to the house
on this fubjeft t» the Poftmaller-General,
which was alto a greed to.
The hrvuTp. on motion, refoked itfelf in
to a ronmittee of the whole on the bill
providing ar ns for the militia throughout the
United States, M>". SiTGaKAViis in the
chair ; when
Mi, Coit not feeing any necessity si r paf
firg this bill, ipoyed. to lliike cut the fir ft
fc<3;ofl.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) could not
£'ve his affeftt to the firlt fedlion and wus ra
lUer in lavour of l)/ikiiig it out, because it
would be fouud in prailice very WCO'lVlnirrit
for the' United Statti to become the retail
ers of ar t s to the ext n- therein propoferi.
He called up*in gentlemen to refledl for a
moment upon the espcnc«; of tranfporti'ig
them to every division of the militia, which
i i many cases would require a land car
of two or three hundred miles. And let it
be also taken into conlideratien ow many of
the nmiketi mud he injured materially by
such transportation and rendered utterly un
fit for service until repaired. Armourers
must therefore be sent with every par el of
arms into the inttrior of the United States,
and held in conltant pay not merely to re
pair the damages fult.iined l>y transportation,
bat to expofc them frequently to the air, and
to keep them free from rust to which they
p-oft bc c9jiiUat..y exeof<4. It they (hould
be scattered abroad in parcel) throughout
the country, as this feftion required, it was
very uncertain whether the militia would
buy the with the additional expense
laid on them for ttanfp nation, and thole
thus unfold would consequently be useless
both to th. public and individuals, or mull
after some time be brought back to the pub
lie armories with an experce eqml to their
firil cost. The plan contained in the firll
feftion was therefore the worlt that could be
proposed, ai d ought to be eflentially altered
or struck out.
Mr. M'DovfSLL hoped the feftion would
not be struck out. He fupnofed it mult be
the wifhof every gentleman that she militia
th oughcitlt the country fliould be well arm
ed. In foir.e parts otthc union it is well known
that this is not (he c.'fe at preftnt. and some
prorilioo ought to be ipade for supplying the
deficiency. Ihe gent e-nanf 1 oiji New-Jei
_fey had said, that tbe states individuals!
ought thcmfelves to. procure aims from the
manufafture« ; but in those pa'ts of the
country where these arms arc chiefly wanted,
there at no manufactories from which they
caa be purchased ; therefore it vcu'd be
well for the government to undertake to J
supply them. The expence of tra>fporta
tion by land wonld certainly be great ; a d J
it <»ght to be encountered ; because, f it is
not dene in the firll instance, if the ftrvice
of the militia is wanted, they mgft have arrcn
sent to them, where arm? are wa' ting. Be
sides, the expence of tranfpoitatinn would
be added t 'the price of the arms. As'o
the difficulty which would .attend th- keep
ing of arms in old er,though it would be at
tended with some trouble, he cotild not think
it would be so great as it had been re pre -
fented.
Mr. 'Shipard said, the committee who
reported this bill, werejndueed to it from a
persuasion that the Southern states are in
want of arms, and have not an opportunity
nf furchafing them. In the eastern states,
Mr. S. £atd, they had fufficient manu rafto
ries of arms, from whuice government might
purchase, and furtjifh th: desired supply.
The committee did not forget the yic: nve
•oienqes mentioned by the gentleman from
N. Jersey; but, notwithstanding these, they
were of opiison, government to un
««Jertake the t ufm-.fs, especially since it would
ifce-attended with little or no expence in the
*nd, as the money laid out (or lent for a
time) would be returned, when the arms
ihail be fold.
Mr. S. Smith frit some of the inconve
niences pointed cut by the gentleman from
New Jersey ; hut when it is recollected that
*ll the manufaftories of fr.all arm?, tithtr
are, or doubtl fs shortly will be engaged in
public service, the necessity and propriety of
-governments undertaking this bulinefs will
appear evident ; for, if it be desirable that
the mili ia (hculd be we'll a' ned. and :t un
doubtedly is -so. government ought to aid the
jjecple in the purchsfe. .Mr. S. asked what
was done in tbe late iofurreftion ? Une part
-of the militia called upon were not com
pletely armed, a- d government was obliged'
-to Transport arms tram the arsenals of the
United.States ; and it would surely be.ber
ter to do this « hijlt we a,re at peace, th?n
af;tr we.shall be engaged in war, efpecjally
as. the p«ople .wquld new purchase ihetr own
ar.rsr., hut if Jiey were fypplied by guvetn
m>;i"t, iin a safe of emcrgenqy, it wou'd be
at public tipenee. Mr. S. wa. ihertfore
drctdedly in favour of the ireafore.
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVEN INC', JULY 6, 1798
Mr. Harrison said, that a little while
go, itwaj dangetous for gentl;men to Ipeak
about saving expence, as any man who did
so, w*s immediately charged with wilhing
to give up his country to a foreign enemy ;
but row when a plan is on foot to supply
the southern states with a'ms, though no et
pence will eventually attend it, a lnud cry
i> made a'/ainft the expence which will be in
curred Tho' gentlemen are pcrfeflly willing
to incur the expence of a llandirg army they
are unwilling to tifkafmall 1 fs which mayac
crue fromcarryingint effe&the pr posed mea
sure for supplying such of the mil tia as want
them with arms, For what purpose are
these arms wanted ? For the defence of the
liberty and indepeudence of the country j
and yit gentlemen now speak of expence.
At the prcfent crifu of danger, and when all
alow that the southern llatcs, are most like
ly to t> e attacked, and the militia of those
states wan' arms, and .ifked f r them, whe
it ii> propolcd to accommodate them in pro
curing them, expence is held up as an ob
jtfiioi'. He trulled, when gentlemen consi
dered the fituatiou of the southern states. and
that they contain within their ojvn bosom a
dangerous enemy, they will not periift in
their oppofit'os to a measure calculated to
remedy this defedl ; that they will not ex
hibit to the world a strange tnconfiilency
in a free country, viz', t the general
government infills upon fending hired (land
ing troops into the ftates, against
th will of the people, but at the fame time
refufes to give them an opportunity of ,iur
chafng arms for t'neir own defence !
Mr. Harper believed, that most, if
all of the inconveniences let forth by the
gentleman from New Jersey, might be a
veided, and the objeft of the bill attained.
These we e fjppol'ed to arife
chiefly from a lengrhy transportation of these
a ms by laiid. Whatever inconvenience and
loss, however, might attend this supply, he j
thought with the gentleman fr m Maryland, .
that the difficulty ought to be encoun ered '
now, rather than in a Hate of war. Biefides,
if this supply is withheld until the arm* arc
wanted, the fame inconvenience would not
only be tncountertd, tut the arms would
come too late for the people to use them in j
training. But are we, said Mr. H. obliged :
to incur the expence of land-carriage ? He
believed not, except in very few infta?ces.
Let it be recolle&ed, that every Hate, except
two, borders upon the sea, and that Ihey
are all penetrated by rivers, which are to a
certain degree navigable by boatß ; and if
these arms were sent i to some town in every
ft te, where the people could get supplied,
though they might have to ride 50 or 100
miles for the fnpply, they could readily de- 1
pute a person to go and make a purclmfe of ;
all that might be wanted in a neighbour- !
hood. There ware, to be sure, a few excep
tions, in which cases the expence of land car
riage mull be incurred.
Mr. Dayton said that if the motion to
j strike out the 2 4 fcflion was withdrawn, lie
(hould nut objeft to their proceeding with
the bill, and endeavouring to majce it as un
exceptionable as pofiiblr. lie had fyecn op
[x fed Jo the general prejeft of it betaufe he
bel e»ed it would rather prevent than pro
mote the general arming of the militia, and
would remove from use, ai well as put out
of repair many thousand (lands of the public
arms. Mr. Dayton declared that he was
not wi ling to do more than to authorize
the encreafe ot the number of armories and
arsenals (o that th re might be one in every
(late, wheie i might be deemed fafe and
practicable. He hope I that each (late would
take meafurrs to purchase arms for heir citi
zen*. It was known that t.ke United Stales
had no surplus of this important instrument
of wa', but on the contrary were deficient.
Mr. H arpE.R kne-.v that the feftion as it
(lands, wilhout amendment, would produce
great inconvenience ; but he also kpew that
this feftion is capable of a very simple a
mendment which would briiig the bill to
what the gentleman from New jersey wifli
ed.
Mr. Coit withdraw his motion.
Mr. S. Smith mov d to strike out the
word?, " in due proportion," which wa3 im
mediately a . reed to.
Mr. HA k pm. moved to strike out the
words " within each div fion of the militia
of the date."
Mr. Varnum wi/hed a division of the
question.
Mr. Rutlrdgf. faid,as f<me of theAates
could easily supply thetnfelves, they did not,
of cour/e, (land in need of the aflillance of
government i though in other states where
arms cannot be got, It v ili be proper to fend
them. In the (late from which he came
(S. Carolina) though the citizens in the
lowej- part of the couqt y ate well aimed,
the inhabitants of the back country are in
want of a rails, an J in otder to funv.lh a sup
ply for that par of the country, the legis
lature of that (late h?d appropriated a sum
of money for the purchase of 10,000 (lands
,0! arms. '1 his money now lies in the trea
sury, and if the general tovernment couli
fend this quantity of arms to that date, they
.would be immediately . for. He had
Himlelf applied to the executive department
on account of these arms, but had received
for a-fiver, that though government had
arms in their arsenals, they had no authority
to fell them, but it thi3 law pasTed, they
might be forwarded.
Mr. R. said, if the Un ted States were
j.afked to supply "(le Militia, at their own ex
p nee wi h arms, some i-bjeftion might te
1 m?de to the requefl : but ?sthey
] lequefted to be i' llrumental in afFjrJinij the
I fuppjy, wilhout beaii-ig ultimately any pa t
of the expeoce, Ve thought the proposition
could not re if x-.ably be objefted'to.
Mi". Varnum d'd not believe that the
Militia of any of the State? are com tetely
armed ; and many of the arms which they
have are of different < alibres. I-i the flat**
of MafiTachufetts he believed th fe pevfons
who had not proper arms could not get them.
He hoped, therefore, the arms would be
dillributed amnnt the several dates.
Mr. Brooks did not think t'x gen'lemtsn
from Maflachufetts had any reason to be ui>-
easy on his fubjeft. If the words are Article .
ont, th* Prsfident would douutl fs dillribute
them where they are mod wanted, and
where the people will be willing to purrhafe
them.
Mr. Macon said, 'h"t he had r.ippofed,
since he words " due proportion," we>e
struck out, that the words now moved to be
dispensed with, would have g on£ O| H !
course. This, he said, was one of those !
kind of b lis which are calculated to benefit
the whole union* Those states which manu
fa'lyre arms, wil he benefited by the sale ot
them to, other states which want them, and
they will be benefited by the supply. There
was very lit;l; chance of the Hate of North-
Carolina, from whence he came, bejng in
vaded ; but if either o! the neighbouring
states were'attacked, he ftippofed the people
of his (late would be called upon for aflifl
ance, a'd when they were so called upon,
he was de' rous that they fiiou'.d be Well
armed, and ready to obey I he call.
Questions oa both parts of the.itnendment
were put and carried.
Mr. S. Smith wiftied, from what had
fallen from the gentleman from S. Carolina
(Mr. RuTLEpnt) to strike out the word
" out," and to insert " to the government ef
the refpeUhefates, or."
Mr. Thatcher did not know why the
General Government Qiould be put to the
trouble ttnd expefce of pro"iding arms for
the State Governments. The original ob
jefl was to provide arms for such individuals
of States chufe to purchase
them and he thought that objift ought not
to be extended to th.* State Governments.
Mr. T Claiborne said, the gentleman
from MaffacbuGetts must have a vety fertile
imagination, indeed, if he could suppose
that the State Governments could wa r t arms
for any other purpose besides that of distri
buting amongfl the people, and at this time
he thought it proper that armslhould be put
into the hands of the people, and that those
who are not able to pay for them, should
have th«m given to them.
Mr. Bayard hoped this amendment would
be agre~d to. The obj'fl of the bill was to
place arms in the hands of those who want
them, and this objift wijvlia be accomplished
whether they arcs fold to individuals, or to
the State Ooverdments If gentlemen fap
pofed the governments of the states could
readilv get fuppiied. the are miftak^n.—
He could speak with certainty as to the
fta'e from which he came. He knew money
had been appropriated for purchasing arms
f«r their quota of the Militia. He knew the
governor of that fta'e came to this city to
endeavour to make a contrail for tbefr terms,
but he found all were engaged for thf go
vernment of the United States, and the
money yet lies in the Treafnryof t,h.e State.
He .boned, therefore, no farther oppefitjon
would b- made to it.
Mr. ICittera said, the ftafe of Penr
f' lvani i had a propriated money for 20,000
(land of arms ; one half to be purchaser
within the United Stages, and the other had
to be .imported. Those which were ordered
to be pnrchafed within the United .Stater,
had been purchased ; Jjut the qon'<"as?
abroad, he believed, had failed, and he b,e
lieved the State Government is (inxtqya to
complete the order.
Mr. Thatcher said, he did not pppofe
the amendment because he wilhed to prevent
the State Governments from purchasing ai ; y
quantity of arms they p eased. J*ut he did
not thijjk this was the bed way of bringing
arms into the hands of the people. He
thought the State Governments ipigbt as
well go to the manufacturers, or fend thejr
orders abroad themftlves s,s ettploy the Ge
neral Government to do the business for
them.
The queflion was put and carried without
a division.
Mr D victon proposed a new fe£ti<jn
authorising thi. President in cafe all fir any
part of the .arms remain unfold, to cause
them to be delivered to such <>f the..militia
a? may want them when called into actual
service, proper receipts and fec'jr,ities beisg
taken for returning the fame.
It was carried 57 votes being f?r it.
The question <in filling, the blank contain
ing the number of arms to be provided, be
ing under consideration,
Mr. Harper hpped it woujd be Oiled ,
with 1.00.000 itaads. He thbiyjjit that
number m ght be well dillnbuted through
ont the United States. They were to serve
a doubli purpose, jc would be recoiletted,
vix. they ire not only 'o be fold, but to arm
fuqh of t'tc militia as may stand in need of
them whenever they (hall be called into ac
tual service.
Mr. Rut(,e.hc2 thought this woiild be by
far too large a nomber ; they would require
more money than could be well fparqd for
the purpose ; they would qoft. from 14 to
16,000 dollars. He bejieved 30,000 (lands
would f)e fufficient.
Mr. T. Claiborne thought zj or 30,000
would be enough- ' 1
Mr. Otis qfyfiion; that if such a
j n r w. s Prefidtntof
! the United States was to apply
the money received from thole which are un
fold, in purchasing a frefh quantity, so as
to keep the sum now appropriated as a fund
to be conftanily employed in the purchase of
arrm, until the peoole in all part 3 of the
anion (hall be well fupplnd with them, the
provision would be fufficient.
Mr. Kittera wis against 100,000. He
believed .hat number would cost little less
than two millions of dollars.
Mr. Harper withdrew his motion for
100,000, and the fenfeof the h»uie was ta
ken on jo,ooo and negatived, lh»re being
only zo votes for it. 30,000 were then
moved and carried 44 to 28.
Mr. Shepard believed ihey might be
pnrchafeJ for twelve dollars a (land, and
therefore moved to fill the blank to contain
the sum propefed to be applied for the pur
chafe of those arms, 400,000 dollars.—A
greed.
Mr. Otis made a mot on to carry his pur
pose into effeft, of having this sum csnftant
ly employed as a fund for the puicliafe of
arms.
It was negatived, there being only 20
votes for it.
The committee then rose, and the house
took up the amendmen s. Coming to the
new feftion,
Mr. S. Smith conld fee no occasion for
this feftion, as there iva» a similar one intro,
duced in the law for railing a Provisional
Army.
Mr. Harper f id, there was cunfidera
ble difference betwixt this feftion, and the
one allude 1 to in a former aft- By that
provision the arms couid not he delivered to
the people unless required by the Governor
of a State ; and it might happen that the
President would thjnk it nectffary to call out
the Militi', when the Governor of fame
particular State might not think it ueceffary.
When the Volunteers are in want ol arms,
the President is authorized to supply them
on reque't of the Volunteers ; but, with
refpeft to the Militia, the < oncurrent autho
rity of the Governor of a State is necessary
Mr. H. thought this a defeft in the law
which ouijht to be remedied.
Mr. Kittera fnggeftcd the propriety of
re-committing this bill, in order to giv>- the
Speaker, who was the author of this feftion,
n opportunity f speaking in reply to the
observations urged against it.
The motion was negatived 42 to 28.
Mr. Edmond said, heunderftood the ob
jeft of this bill o be to provide arms to be
fold out to such individuals or (late govern
ment!, as chufe to become purchafen, by
placing them in convenient situations in the
different Sates , but, if th s feflion is in
troduced into the bill, it will operate a a
jljifcouragement to the purchase of these arms,
because when State Goversrtents and Indi
viduals fee that if they'Ho not purchase arms
for themselves, they will in cafe of necessity,
have them put into the hands of those who
want them, they will not of course be very
eiger to pnrchafe, and the arms will lie un
disposed of at the rilk and loss of the United
States.
Mr. Sitgreavks said, an objeftion had
been brought against this bill, which he .
thought had some weight, viz. that though
these arms were proposed to be fold, there
was no obligation upon the people to pur
chase the 01, and therefore a clause ought to
be introflr.c;d for placing such arms as may
remain in any part of the country unfold, in
the hanjs of the .people, in cafe of emergen
cy. For this purpose, this clause had been
introduced in the committee of he whole.
Mr. S. said, the idea of the gentleman from
S. Carolina war. a eorrrft one, that, with
out this clause, the President of the United
States could only dilpofe of these arms by
sale. However urgent an occ fion might a
rise, he cauld not p t them into the hands
ps the Miliiia, without the concurrence
of the Executive of a States ; and he
believed, if gentlemen wiflied this bill to pass
at all, it would be necessary to have thin
clause inserted.
Mr. R. Williams was in favour of re
tailing the clause.
Mr Edmond again expressed his opinion
against the feftion.
After a few words in favour of the clause
from Mr. Craik, the quell ion was put and
carried, there being 54 votes tor it
Mr. moved to rike out the fal
lowing words, " w/frc/j Jball bt depoftlttl at
juitalic placet. ' Ht thought them very
vague. They.might mean foi'able. for fafe
keeping, or fuitabie for I'al \. If'tbey meant
that the arms should be placed in fuitabie
places for fa'e in every (late, ke (hould be
oppo'ed to it. He did not wi(H to have
thtfe arms sent all over the Union, but to
have them left at the disposal of the Prefi
d-nt. The gentleman from Kentucky (Mr.
lj)avis) tor instance, could not with to have
them sent there, because his constituents,
according to his own account, are not able
to purchase them.
The Speaker ueclared this oiction out
of order.
Mr. Allen then moved to add the words,
'' Jor fafe keeping."
Mr. Harper was sorry the gentleman
from Conncfticut (hould qua rel with the
bill, because it was propolcd to accommo
date the purchasers of these arms as much
ai possible. Ht thought the bill was found
ed altogether on this g-oind of aecomrao
d-tion; and as the Prefideut would now
have the disposal of the arms according to
his own discretion, bethought the bill stood
very well at prelent.
Mr. Allun withdrew his motion, and
the bill was ordered to ergiofTVd for a
third reading.
['Volume XIV.
■oy. Toe house accordingly resolved itfelf
into a committee o! the whole on that bill}
when
Mr. Shfpaud moved to strike out the
firfl feftion of the bill, >
Mr. M'Dowell fVconded the motion*
It was one he was himfclf prepared to have
Mi adj. lie thought the hill highly except
tionable. Jt is provide !by this bill that the
Volunteers fiioll not be fubje£l to the militia
traiaing which the States have a right to
put them under. If these volunteers are,
indeed, to be considered as a Standing Ar
my, then they are free from tht authority of
the States ; but if they are not to be thus
consider d. to e*cufc them from militia train
ing, would be an interference wirh ft ate au
thority which was altogether unallowable,
and would have a tendercy to destroy t!ie
miiitia, which had hitherto always been con*
fidcred as the sure defence of the country.
Tp excr.f? these volunteers from Militia Du
ty, would also create a diltin&ion between
them and the militia which he was appre
hen five would produce the most unhappy ef.-
feds,
Mr. S.Smith said, if he could consider
tl)ef<r volunteers as pjrt of the militia of the
United Stales, lie fliould agree in opinion
with the gentleman last up ; but he confi W
red them not as a part o * the militia, but as
reguhr troops, to do regular service
fcsr two years, after they are accepted by the
Prrfidenf. Surely, then, whilst men stand
thus pledged for the \ uhlic fervicf!, it would
be very unreasonable indeed, to call r.pon
them to do mib'tia duty, and fine them for
the negie6l of doing it (for they could Wot
perform both ferviccs )
Mr. Sew a ll remarked, that these Volun
teers, though they would not be fubjecf ft#
the Articles of Waruntil they came into actu
al service, would neverthlefs, according to»
this bill, be fubjett to rules and regulations to>
be cftablidied by the President, which he sup
posed would be founded upon the Articles of
War. It must, therefore, app-ear 10 be rea-<
fonable to excuse them from Militia Duty.
Mr. $h epArd objeded to this clause, be
cause, in the firft place it makes a call to the
whole of the Militia to come forward and
make an offer of their service to the President
of the U. States, which if complied with to
any extent, would have the effect of destroy
ing altogetherthe State authority with refpeit
to the Militia, and would convert the whole
into a Standing Army, and consequently vio
late the Constitution. If the law could be so»
modified as to be made agreeable to the Con
ftitutioir, he fliould not objedt to it ; but at'
present, he thought it in direst violation o£
that provision which lays, the training of tho
Militia fliall be left to the Individual States*
For this Hill proposes that these men diall be
called by another name, taken from iheir old
Officers, and placed under such as shall be ap
pointed by the President of the United
and its certain effett must be to create difuni
-011 betwixt the States anj} the Unfted States-
Mr. Harper said, that gentlemen who
spoke against this bill, had taken an errone
ous view of the fubjed. They spoke as if
these Volunteers were to be excused from ser
vice, wheraas they will be sub-jest to much
severer exercise than the Militia, not only
when called into actual service, but in the
mean time, and they will therefore undergo *
more rigid difciplinc than ever the Militi.iare
called to. They ought certainly, therefore*
to be exempted from Militia duty.
Besides, Mr. H. said, he looked upon these
corps as a much better defence than the ordi
nary Militia cculd afford ; and those gentle
men who spoke of the Militia as being a fuf
ficient defence for the country, he would re
fer to the fate of the canton ot Berne, from
which they wilJ find that fomeching more
than spirit and bravery is necessary. 11 will be
seen that nothing can be effected without dif
crpline, for though the people of Bern, affiled
by their wives and fitters defended themselves
bravely with their Scythes aod Pitchforks*
they were mowndowniby the fuperiordifcip
line and order of the enemy. So that for want
of energy and decision in their Government,
and discipline in their troops, they were
crushed nnd rfettroyed. This example he
thought so flrikingly in point, that he was
aftoi.ifhed any gentleman should oe found
here to advocate (imiiar temporising measures.
Mr. il. had no doubt that our Militia are as
brave a fct of men as any in the world ; but
courage alone will r»ot avail; undisciplined
courage placed against veteran troops, as in the
instance just mentioned, would be certain to
fail ; it would only give tbe enemy the trou
ble of killing fijeh a force, and filling the
ditches with their dead oodies. In proportion,
therefore, as you impart to the people di(-
cipline, organization, command, and military
habits, you produce an efleCtaal defence for
the country. It was on this account that he
was so favourably impreUetfc with refpett to
the volunteers, and that lie advocated the
present bill.
Mr. Macoi wiflied the gentleman from
S. Carolina had examined the constitutional
queflion, infteadof referring the house to the
fate of Berne. Whatever energy it might be
necessary to exert, it ought to be exerted ac
cording to the conftitutien. He thought the
present bill a direct violation of it. If these
volunteers are regulars, there is no occasion
for this clause, as the state cannot call upon
regular soldiers, to d.o militia duty, so that
this law, and the committee who formed it,
must have considered them as a part of the
Militia. This, Mr. M. said was the fame
question which was formerly under discussion,
on the original bill ; and he had npt altered
his opinion of its unconftitutional'ity.
Mr. ShepaTvD said, this bill'was not only
unconstitutional, fyut would create much un
eafuiefs and disturbance in the country. He
could not but be much obliged to the gen
tleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Harper) for his
lecture on Military Duty ; bnt he believed he
(Mr. S. had forgotten more vhan that gentle
man ever knew, and therefore did not want
his instructions. He believed the Militia are
in general much better trained and disciplined
than they would be in the form of Volunteers ±
but it feemcd as if no .man could be a good
Officer, unless he receivedhiscommiffion from
the President. He saw no foundation forfuc.i
an idea.
Mr. Bayard said, whatever name is given
to these Volunteer Cor v >s, whether thsy fluUb° rafted regu' it troops* ornc'. there can:iof
m« » :, e 1 th.j fik v ar«- no". «o be coi !i
---dereu as !Vi iitia, Kecanf" by the law authorif
ing 'ir* rrHifherU' to rale a p-ovifmnal army,
he ~•> directed r». appoint the officers, and the
Constitution 1$ pcfitive, that -he oHTicers of
•hr I .iiHa caanto be appouned, other than
by the States.
Mr. lap posed the gentleman from N.
Carolina (Mr. Mac on) a: ci not mean to fay
that the Legislature of the U. States could not
c -v.'-' <>v» 1 pcuons 0111 a performance of Mili
tia duty- A nroiof *0 the contrary might be
found in the Mi'itiaiaw. It was clear, there
fore, thai the houie had a right to excuse vo-
fro.nmil t.a duly, ai»d the onlyqitff
tiou \» ;».s as to the reafonablenefsand proprie
ty cf do :■£ so ; and lie thought this mull be
vrrv evident from t!-.e vmpofllbility there
be of their complying with both laws.
Mr. Karpkr wished to add one word in
reply to what had fallen from the gentleman
from M:iflachufetrs, in relation to hunielf.—
That genrieman, whom he knew held a consi
derable military fommatu', ivfufthaforgotten
more urinary knowledge ihan he ever knew,
beca fe he never knew any ; and hecaufe that
gentleman leemed to poifefs but little at vre
feiit; but he did not know that it was neces
sary to have a pfaotical knowledge of milita
ry affairs, to dcternurie that nothing can be
done by way of defence, without discipline.
He believed Jte-.might form as correct an opi
nion on that-point as if he wefe possessed of all
the military knowledge which that gentleman
favs he hai forgotten
Mr. G a T.LATIN observed, there was one
point 'ot v.eiv in wliich this subjeCt hud not
been conlidered. IJ he-underflood the law
which had been passed on this fubjcCt, his
ideas wefe tlie fain'? vvith refpeef to the Volun
teers, with those of the gentlemen from De
laware and Maryland, viz. not that they are a
part of the Militia, but a part of the arruy of
the United States; for, if they haJ beencon
fidered as a part ot the Militia, the law would
have been unconttitiitional, by giving the
or appointingoifiv.ers to the Prekdent,
initead of it to the several (fates as
the conititu-ion duetts. He therefore consi
dered that point as decided, viz. that these
volunteers are u part oi rhe army of the Unit
ed States; but the fe6\ion now under confi
de ratio*n goes to declare that such of tlie Vo
lunteers-as fhafl submit to certain rules ot dif
tipline, shall be exempt from Militia duty,
and therefore such as lhall not chufe to fub
n it so these rules, are to be ccnfidered as lia
ble io do militia duty. In that it was
perfectly inconfjftent with the bill passed. lie
conceived that the moment a person enlirted
h ; ir feif as a volunteer, he was exempt from
Militia duty.
T his bill, he underrtood, had been intro
duced to rectify a defect in the original'law.
A yre«t de:il had been said about the great ef
fect of difopline, and' of the fate of Berne,
w!>.ich he r!iou»ht wholly irrevelant. ' When
% lie original bill was formerly under coniider
ation, U Was objected agaii\!t it that it did not
provide fufficient regulations for the govern
ment of corps. This is found now to be
the cafe, and the deficiency is now prepofed
to be flip plied, liow is this to be done ? By
Submitting to such rules and regulations as
the President (hall appoint, or if volunteers
rinN neglett to do it, they are to be (übje£t to
fnilitra duty. He neither thought this right or
proper. He thought it ought to be made po
iitive that the volunteers (hould conform to
the rules laid down by 'he President, instead
■cf leaving the matter at large ; for having
once determined the volunteers to be ftand
in£ troops, by authorizing the President to ap
point the ofircers, they cannot any longer be
conlidered'as at all appertaining to the mili
ti.i. '1 he ft'vtion ought, therefore, either to
be .uneiided or rejected.
Mr. Dana thought the fe6tion stood very
well a present. Every volunteer, whilst he
remained such, mult according to this bill,
conlcr.n lo the regulations Of the President.
Gentlemen Hill brought up the-queftion as to
what these corps ought to be called. They
might call them what they pleaied, Mr. D.
(aid, if they did not call them " an army
which will tlee before the enemies of their
country." Aj to the volunteers performing
the dury of militia men, as well as the duty of
their own corps, it would be utterly impofij
"ble to do it ; but if any volunteer declined
comply ii>g with the regulations laid dpwn by
the President for-heir government, he would
be turned back to the militia ; for it was not
intended that any volunteer (hould perform a
grudging fcrvic?;
Pvir. S. Smtt-i hoped the fettion would not
fce (truck out, but that it would be amended
in the way pro posed by the gentleman from
Pennfyivania.
Mr. Vaiinum thought Hie objections to
this seCtion might be removed by an amend
ment in the way proposed. The objections
made by his colleague (Mr. Shephard) and
other gentlemen, would haye been very pro
per when the original bill wa's under conside
ration; but at present he did not think they
were applicable. He had himfelf at that time
objeeled to this corps; but as it had been a
greed to, and as it would be looked upon in no
ether light than as (landing troops, and troops
too which would be firlt called upon in cafe
of any emergency, it would be wholly incon
sistent to make them liable to Militia duty.
The question on {hiking out was put and nega
tived 46 to 26.
The question now came upon the proportion
fcr loaning arms to the Volunteers, when
Mr. G. l latin said, it had beeu provided by the
law for raifuigOtt Provisional Army) that in cafe any
of the Volunteers lhall be called into service, before
they get poffeflion of arms, the President is autho
rised to loan to them field artillery, arms and ac
coutrements; but the provision in this bill proposes
that these arms may be loaned for the purpole of
training. This he did not think prudent, as it
would operate as a discouragement to the purchase
of arms by the volunteers themselves, and prevent
the country from receiving that cheap defence from
the service of these volunteers, which gentlemen
had foretold. He believed it would be fufficient to
loan arms to such of these volunteers as may want
them, when called into a<Slual service. Mr. G.
therefore moved to (Irike out the words which pro
posed this loan of arms.
Mr. S. Smith said, the obje&ion of the gentle
man from Pennfyivania had some weight; but he
believed it might be remedied by confining the
of arms to field pieces; and he believed that volun
teers would generally wifii to find their own mus
kets.
Mr. Gallatin varied his motion to meet the
ideas of the gentleman lad up.
Mr. Dayton moved that the committee might
rife. He found a compromise taking place betwixt
gentlemen which he did not approve. He thought
there might be young men v. ho wbuld turn out as
volunteers, who not afford to purchase their
own arms; and in such cafe he would have arms
given to them, tfelioped, therefore, a little time
would be given to consider this fubjedt.
The comniittee role accordingly, and had leave to
Si again. A did.
To be Let.,
A ftna!! airy Haufe,
In Gcrmanto .n, at a !cv; yeat. Enquire of Mrs
Ha d, >n Prune street. Juiy j— 3t
I '3Cm c£>asette.
PftlLJ DELPHI A,
j FiIIDAY EVENING, Jvn 6.
' MR. fiCNNO,
Ynu will oblige me by publifiing iu
' your paper tlit answer of the President of
the ( pited States, to the ad.dress of four
companies of militia of Marris county, in
' Nc w.Jerfcy.
j The infamous addiefs which appeared in
the Aurora a few days ago (to the honor
of ihat truly federal slate) was confined to
the lour companies with whom it originated.
It went fully to prove, that the acknow
ledgment contained in the no'le address ot
the commander in chief, general, and field
officers, " that there were a few deluded
and a few degraded characters amonft them,"
wag founded in truth. It is but j nil ice
the fi>ld;ers of those companies, to apply the
firft epitbet to them. Their officers merit
the lafl.
A Jersey-man.
To the Officers and Soldiers of the four Com
panies of Militia of Morris county, fiate of
New-Jersey.
gentlemen,
I HAVE received your address of the
4th of June, and am sorry to perceive any
(hades of difference in the fentim. Nts of the,
New-Jersey militia.
Although you cannot fay all that your
superiors have said, yet I rejoice that in
point of sincerity 3nd attachment to the
real incereft of your country, you yield to
none, and that whei) you are constitution
ally and legally called, yoti will not shun the
pod of danger, por be tardy in defending
your rights and privileges when invaded by
a foreign enemy, or attacked under any dis
guise whatever by a domestic foe. I hope
you will never dare to place any maH above
the constitution and laws of your country.
Nothing human is absolutely perfedl
the voice of adulation has never founded in
the ears of the Executive Magiltrates an
universal approbation ; if it had, there have
been psmphlets and newspapers, private
societies and resolves enough, as well as de
bates in the national legiflaturts, to convince
any man to the contrary.
Had not the meafuresbeeu adoptsd, which
you have observed, we (hould have been in
circumstances much more calamitous. I
believe very much mistaken when
you suppose, that " l'nterefted commercial
cha'' afters," joined with those whose politi
cal principles were rot " friendly to a re
publican form of government, have led the
way to our present embarrassment." You
(hould remember, however, that there are
" intereftid commercial charafters," as well
as p rfons, whose political principles are
not friendly to our present form of republi
can government, who have urged hard to
plunge us into the horrors of a war with a
nation the most abl: to annoyus, and to forcfc
us into the arms of anoiher whose form of
government- and administration are abhor
rent io our own. It is our wisdom to frm
no connection with any foreign power that
(hall influence our form of government.
If America and any other nation fhduld
lnve a common enemy, and (hould concert
measures together tor the present conjunc
ture for mutual benefit, there need be no
danger of ouradopting their peculiaiities of
government, any more than their adopting
ours ; I believe their fears on this head will
be ftrortger than ours, and perhaps better
founded.
Your government is I hope, to be
called a party ; if a government of your
choice is a party, how can you obtain one
which will not be so > I know of but two
ways, either to make it hereditary, or to
place yourselves under a foreign mil tary
despotism. You will start with horror at
the last, and I prefnme have no inclination
to the firft.
You are very much mifinforined if you
suppose the government embraces and car
rafies all those charafters, who were ever
your word enemies. Although it protests
all men to the utmoll of its power, who
are not inimical, it embraces only such cha
rafters as are faithful to the con dilution and
the laws, their execution and impartial in
terpretation ; it ftudles, however, not to so.
ment, or irritate, or perpetuate ancient pre
judices, and malignant passions, which had
better be difmiflcd.
Your insinuation concerning speculators
on the soldiers pay, and the diftrefles con
comitant with war, requires some notice.
Who were the people who dep eciated the
soldiers pay ? Were they not those who
taught for dodtrine, the commandments of
wicked men?—viz. " Public fajth ought to
, be violated—Public credit ought to be de
(lroy«d—the public debt ought to be ex
punged." Were they not those who op.
posed every species of revenue under the
old confederation, by which the soldiers
pay could have been preserved from depre
ciation ? I regret to fee, in your address,
so many fragments of those old discontents,
jealousies, and murmurs, which once made
the citizens of New Jersey as tributary to
their neighboring states, as the Fienchnow
desire to make us all to them. As to specu
lation, if you can devise a mode to destroy
it, conlift nt with the liberty of the citizen,
and the security of property, J (hall be
obliged to ycu if you will communicate it
to me.
With sincere good will, and cordial wishes
for your, fatisfadion and contentment, I am
your friend,
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, July 2d, 1798.
TO HIS IXCKILINtY
J 0 IT N ADAMS,
PRESIDkNT of the UNITED STATES.
THE fubferibrr?, naiivcs of Great Britain and lie
land, and inhabitants of the city of Albany anHj is fu
burbl eg Jeave to afl"ure you ?t this political crisis,
that tbey are imprcfled with a strong ftnfc of thedu-.
tus cf cbcUience and fapport cf thjt government
wh'rh so benlgMy protc£l« trcm ; and thit they Tr ~
pof" a r u jj confidence on the integrity. firmnefs and
ab'.J'fes. tliat have so em«nenriy yoir
sHm'nidration. They weil know the hleflingvof *
®ood er,erj*ejc government to inellimable val
ue and thev frel with as refentmetit as any, the
♦Mrragcs rnd infulrs warronly and daringly
t d bv the French'cpuSlic, aj>*wift tli-
nuyand independmee of the United States.
Pe-m:» them, therefore, to pled'?" themfe'.ves rea
dy to fffaiort government, by a cheerful compl-ance
with every demand that may he made upon their pro
Percy or their whilH thev refrain from a
more exp'icu offer of fervioe at left it be
thrtucht in anv refpeft i»trjfive or premature.
Signed by abont one hundred English and Irish
men.
To the natives of Great Britain and Ireland inhabitants
of the city oj Albany and its fuburbsy fate of New York.
CRN I'LEV EN,
WHETHER you 3'e citizens or ftran»cs I thank
you for tf-.e address (which is at least civil and polite)
j presented to me by Mr. North, a lenator in
[ from New York.
The fenfe you exprrfs of the duii's of obe
j d cnce and support to that government which benign-
I ly protecls you, is conformable to the general char
! of the Englilh and Infh rt»tions.
In ic-uru for v»uf'confidence in thr general govern ,
, ment of this cc *v»ry, and yoor sensibility to outra
ges committed agiM-.fl the iMtcreft, dignity and inde
pendence of the Uni'ed States, I vrijl venture to fay,
,th»t it is noi the wifti of .America that F-ance should
conquer Great liiitriin or Ireland, that ihe is under
uo obligation of duty, or motive of niter eft to con- ;
trioute by leans or by treaties or alliances, by
war or intrigue to anv such purchase.
I receive very kind!y/vour pledg- oF yourselves to
he ready to support government by a cheerful com
pliance wi h every demand that may be made upon
your property and exertions. —In return, I can af
ftire you while f«ch a difpofitiou continue, that you
may tely upon the protr*6lion and hospitality of this
country as sara» depends upon me
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 28th, 2798.
Bp his Excellency JOHN JAY,Esquire,
Governor of the State of New-York.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS the Government of the Uni
ted Sates, to whom the people there
(l.s.) os-have committed the exclusive di
rection of their National Affairs, has
been pleased to publifli for the information
of the citizens, divers important and alarm
ing events and tranfadlion6—from which it
appears,
That there ext'ft well founded apprehen
sions that the Direftois of the French Re
public have long formed, and are strenuous
ly pursuing a system of empire and aggran
dizement subversive of the National Rights
and Independence, not only of the greater
part of Europe, but also of the United
States—imposing upon them the necessity
of partaking in her wars, and of contribu
ting to her expense, :
Tint the cautious and neutral conduft
which the United States, and fcveral other
nations Lave observed towards that Repub
lic, has not been able to shield them from
the operation of that system : but on the
contrary, that complain: sagainft the United
States have been diligently fought and al
led/fd, and followed, not by friendly re
monstrances and conciliato;y overtures, but
by unnecessary and unmerited marks of con
tempt, and by injurious and repeated aggres
sions : >
Th_t the late and present President, both
of whom are eminently diftinguithed by up
rightness and fiticerity, have at two differ
ent periods sent Ministers, to that Repub
lic, with ample powers and special inftru<ai
ons to ao theirutmolt endeavours to preserve
peace, and bring all differences to aa ami
cable conclusion, and on reasonable terms.
That notwithstanding the accustomed ref
peft which ciriliied andcontending nations
usually pay, as well as owe to each other,
and which requires thatambaffadors charged
with overtures for peace and conciliation,
thould at least be received and heard, and
treated wi h civility ; yet the firft of those
ministers was retufed to be admitted into the
prtfence of the said Direflors, and after
Angular delay and negltift, was dismissed in
a manner very disgusting to free, indepen
dent and friendly people :
That although the refpeft which every
Nation owes to itfelf, strongly opposed the
policy of giving to those Dire&ors, anothtr
opportunity of again treating the United
States with similar indignity, yet an earned
and prevailing desire to maintain peace with
all nations, and particularly with the French
Republic, induced,ihe President to appoint
three Envoys extraordinary, felefted from
the three great Diftridls of the United
States, and tend them to France, with ample
powers and inttiudtions to treat in afrie* dly
manner with that Government, refpeftir.g
all differences <ind complaints, and to ac
commodate and fettle them on terms limited
only by the Honor, Independence and es
sential interests of the United States.
That notwithftan 'ing such ftroiij; desires,
proved by such tinequivocal and uncommon
efforts to preserve peace and friendthip with
that Republic, those envoys were not only
refufed to be received and accredited, but
new difficulties and freth obftaclcsto accom
modation were interpofed,bydemar.ds
no Nation ought to make, and to which no
Nation ought tofubmit.
These fa£ta and circumstances strongly
indicate designs and systems hotlile to our
Peace and Independence ; and in connexion
with the l®»g continued, encreafing and ru
inous depredations on our commerce, afford
reason to cxpeft that a more op?n and deci
ded rupture will take place, the moment
that further delay fliallceafeto beconvenient.
And whereas fcveral of the more alarming;
of these events had not been publithed by
order-os the Government of the United
States, and in an authentic manner, until
after the adjournment of the last feflion of
the Legislature of this State : and it has
become prudent to take without delay such
measures relative to defence, as the present
exigency requires, and which cannot be'
feat, nably and fufficieotly provided for by
the United States, without the auxiliary ef
forts of th i State.
Wherefore, concurring in opinion with
many of our bett informed citizens, I think
it my duty to give to the Legislature of this
State, an eatly opportunity of taking these
important matters into ther fcrious confide-1
ration; and thereupon to do whatever may I
he proper and receflary in such au emergen
cy ; with firm reliance on the Divine pro
tection, and with inflexible r?fo!ntion never
to furrend' r their Independence, and pay
tribute to any Nation whatever.
I do therefore in pursuance of the autho
rity conllitntionally vrfted in me, hereby
summon- and require the members of the
Senate, arid also the members of the AfTem
bly o'f this State, to convene and meet in the
city Hall ofthe city of Albany, on theninth
day of August next, and this Proclamation
(which all the Printers of Gazettes in this
State are hereby desired forthwith to pub
lish in their Papers) is to be coflfidered as
due and fufficient notice.
Given under my Hand and the Privy I
Seal of the State, at the City of j
New York, on the second day of
July, in the year of our L rd one
thousand seven-hundred and nine
ty-eiglu, and in the twenty seCond
year of the Independence of the ;
United Slates of America.
JOHN JAY.
From the Commercial Ad*vertifer.
As I have not been in the habit of addrefiing
my fellow-citizens through the medium of a
newfpapcr, it may in the eitimation of (amc well
disposed persons • e thought imprudent and pre
fumingthus to expose rriyfelf to the perfidy and
malice of the worst of men. Rut at a moment
like the present, when most of the governments
of Europe are shaken to their center, and all
the republics swallowed up by the devouring
monfterof modern Gaul ; when those defpica
hle tyrants threaten us with the fate of Venice,
and infamous aliens in the bosom of our country
(who have fled for refuge from tbe vengeance
of their own) boast their readiness to co-operate
in executing their diabolical intentions ; I pre
lume that moil of my countrymen will agree
with me, that it is not a time for ceremony, hut
prompt and nervous atflion. lmprefl'ed with
these ideas I am induced to state the following
fa<fts.
Some time in the month of [une, Dr. James
Smith called at my house, and on his leaving it,
took my hat and left his in the place of it ; the
next day I was ciretfed to call at John D.Burk's
printing-office, as the most likely place to find
him; I went to the office accordingly, and
whjjft there, a person called and informed Mr.
Burk that a certain bookseller in this city had
received a letter from his friend in Virginia, stat
ing that the French had effected their landing
in Ireland—Burk, with marks of much appro
bation, exclaimed, that he believed it was true,
and if so that he would not give a damn for the
Federal villains in this country—»that he believed
the French would come here, and he wished to
God they would, when every icoundrel in favor
of thitf government would be put to the guillo
tine—that they had hinted that he would be sent
away as an alien—but then he would let them
know who was the strongest party. The indig
nant reader will no doubt query— •
And is it possible that there are Americans so
infamous as to/an&ion declarations like these ?
I would answer yes, and we have abundant cause
to believe that among the number, are tohfe
legislative oppofers of a nervous and manly re
finance of the attacks of France upon our sove
reignty and independene. Narrow, contracted
and unprincipled must those minds be, which,
at this awful period con ad as if engaged in a
contest for place and power ; and which, instead
of proceeding upon the broad ground of con-
Hitutional vigilance, can descend to political
squabbles. contentions and broils, difhorjorable
to themselves, and difgracaful to the govern
ment. If by such conduit, we should be ulti
mately driven, which Heaven forbid ! to pur
chase oy a base f'acriiice of our honor and our
fafety, a short respite from hostility, the heavy
load of responsibility will cru(h rhem with its
weight, And the maledictions of society will
proclaim them the enemies of their country.—
Firmness, vigor ant! decision, have heretofore
formed the charaifleriftic features of Americans
in the hour of distress. Though the public
mind is, I fear in some degree, perverted, the
national chara&ei, I trust is not gone ; let us be
true to ourselves and we have nothing to fear ;
'out the man who when difficulties press and dan
gers surround, refufes to lend his support to the
iiate, is a miscreant that deserves te be reje&ed
from her bosom.
I cannot dismiss this fubje«£l without again
calling the reader's attention to the indignity of
fered to the mzjefly of the American people,
through the Cuief Magistrate in the following
paragraph, by that imported patriot, the un
principled John D. Burk, editor of the seditious
Time Piece i *
" When such a charafler attempts by anti
quated and expioded fophillry, by jcfuitical ar
guments t extinguiihthe sentiment of Liberty ;
TIS FIT the maflc (ho-ild be torn off from this
meaner species of Aristocracy than history has
condescended to record, where a person without
patriotifin, without philosophy, without a taste
for the fine arts, building his pretensions on a
gross and indigested compilation of statutes and
precedents is jojlled into the chief magiltracy
by the ominous combination of old Tories tuith
old opinions, and old IVbigs with new : TIS
FIT this mock M narch, with his court com
posed of tories and speculators, should pafi in
review before the good sense of the world.—
Monarchies are seen only with indignation and
concern; at fight of these terrible establishments 1
tears accompany the execrations of mankind ;
but when the champion of the well born, with
his serene court, is seen Jbliciting and anj"wering
addrejfesy and pronouncing anathemas againjl
France, it shall be my fault if other emotions be .
not excited ; if to tears and execrations be not
added derision and contempt
How long ye numbering Americans, will you
be thus intuited ? Awake from your deathful
upor and spurn from the society of freemen
this wretch who is composed of that fttiff.of
which the Spy, the AiTaffiu and the Sycophant,
is formed.
THEMISTOCLES.
The name of the Author is left with the
Pr nter.
* A news-paper printed in New-York.
Weftcrn Telegraphe—fprinted at Wafting m
ton, Pennsylvania J
IT hath been said and reiterated by wife men,,
" That the highest point of wisdom is, to be able
" to manage our affairs by the flrcngth of our
" own judgment ; the next is to hearken to the
" advice of the bell m^n —but he that is neither
" wife enough to govern by himfelf, nor willing 1
" to be led by the counsel of wife men, is a rank 1
4< fool." Few are able to arrive at the firftpointnot 1
from want of judgment, but from the want of the
necessary means of information. Much knowledge
and experiences unnecefiarv to diflinguifn between
thiugs right and things apparently so, which if
we want, \vs are bound to pursue the advice ofthe
moll judicious and wife men among us. If the
preceding observations be founded in good sense, it
becomes an important enqiry—Have wc been gov
erned by them ? Have wc listened to the wife, the
prudent and the hetb informed ; or have we been
led ailray by th« Syren llrairs of demagogue?,
. without charter or talents, who consider the oW
. ligations impofodby raiigion, laws and moral®, at
" trifles lijjht as air," and who seek, by the abuse
ot the wffeft msafures of our government, and out
to 'break whit they term " the Lillipu
tian ties by which they" are " Nsund" ? I fear this
latter hust«o generally been the ease in this coun
try, and that the partizans of France so remarka
ble for their difrrgard of religion, contempt of
laws and depravatien of morals have been listened
to with too much plcafure by many good men.
Distrust of lawful authority, abuse of honest cha
ra-flers and the propagation ot impious opinions
are the acknowledged means used by the French
g»vernment to corrupt, divide and ruin us. The
calumniators of the meafuresof our .overnment,
and of our wisest and heft men, compose purt of
the diplomatic corps, of whose (kill the French go
vernment boast, an 1 who are to defeat the repre
sentations of our envoys and disarm the American
people, of their resentment. Can it be poflible,
that the mifcrcaot agents and admirers of France
will be aMe by mifreprefenthtien any longer to
mislead the people, whose independence and best
in.erells they have betrayed, afcer our envoys have
been told in piain terms, unless as much money
j be given as could be raised from the people, by
forced loans,l suppose ; that the diplomatic ikill of
.France and the means fhepoffefles in «this" coun
try ' were fufficient to enable her with the French
" party in America to throw the blame which
would attend the rupture of the negotiation on
" federalifts."—After this declaration by the gov
ernment of France, let not their partizans be lift
oncd to with patience, kut let them be pointed at
by the finger of scorn an traitors to their country.
Let no man be permitted, wi'h impunity, to abuse
the adminiflrarion of our government, or discre
dit its advocates with ( the people. Let the parti
zans of France, whose profane touch had almost
poisoned the fountain of representation, now meet
the frowns of an enlightened people who Bve too
long lowered on the best friends of the indepen
dence and honor of their country.
* S " J'Jf'rf'nt Utter to Mr. Maxtti.
THE SCOTS IRISHMAN
TO ALL HIS COUNTRYMEN,
CITIZENS of AMERICA,
<iobo are not irreclaimablc jacobins.
A SONG,
To be futig to the Tune of
" The Boyne Water."
WHEN glorions William led our Sires
'Gaii.A Popery and Thraldom,
All Irish hearts felt generous fires,
When sacred freedom call'd them.
At her dread voice, where Willianvled,
They boldly follow'd after.
And for their rights fought undifmaved
Thro' danger, blood and flanghter.
Shall we, their fon9, degenerate prove—
Forget our father's glory,
Nor for our country * feel thac love,
Which fhinej in Irish story ?
Shall we regardless of the call
Of liberty and reason,
Permit the proud insulting Gaul
Our choicest rights to Wizc on ?
Within your veins runs Scotia'j blood,
(Bring not disgrace upon her)
Unconquer'd flill it freely flow'd
T' assert her injured honor.
There, brave Galgacusf nobly ftay'd
Th' invading Romans' vengeance,
And gallant Wallace fought and bled
For national independente,
When Wajhington, of deathless name,
Columbia's flag unfurl'd
The british tyranny to tame,
And free the weftem world ;
The danger of glorious ftrife,
Hibernians largely ftiar'd it,
Unheeding loss of limb or life,
When freedom's cause requir'd it. -
f And can ye now endure the rod
Of lawless usurpation ?
And basely tremble at the nod
Of a perfidious nation ?
Those Ihvesour fathers J.oft fubdncd
Beneath the British banners,
In many a far-fam'd field ©f blood
'Neath Marlboro and Manners.\\
O lift not to their syren songs,
Who with faHe tales decoy you !
With peace and virtu* on their tongues,—
They charm but todeftroy you.
When once they've trampled on the laws,
'I hey vilely will deliver
To foreign Harpies blood ftain'd claws
Your country's rights for ever.
Consider him, nor good, wife,
When do threaten.
Who fits, with tidelefs blood, the price 0
Of jujl defence to reckon.
What sign fies your wealth and ease, •
Without the poku9r to keep 'em;
Or blejjings of inglorious peace,
Which freedom does not sweeten ?
Let frozen hearts and groveling fouls
Lie by, in coid inadion,
And 'gainst their country be the tools
Of a base foreign fa<ftion :
But fti J .l let us rur duty feel,
And, with a noble ardor,
Surround the laws with hearts of ftee!,
Nor mean suspicion harbor.
* Our adopted Country.
t A Caledonian prince who at the bead of his
countrymen, opposed and defeated the Roman
general /Igricola, who hud marched a great ar
my into the country to subdue it, and punish the
Caledonians for their (Jbftina'cy in refujing ta
submit to the Roman yoke.
J It is well known that the British draw the
befl taoops in their army jrom Scotland and Ire*
' land.
U The marquis of Granby, vjho commanded
the BritiJ/j forces at the battle of Minden, <wher
seven thoufund British troops defeated and pu si
to flight eitrbtv thou fund French in fair battle. *
Pennsylvania Kofpital,
6th month 29, 's£.
AT a meeting of the Contributors, held the
23d instant, in order to obtain a deeifion
on the propriety of completing a Dome to the
new building heretofore agreed upon ; it wa3
thought the number,of members met,*«-ere not
enough to reverie the former conclusion—it was
therefore rcfolved> that the Managers Ihould call
another meeting for that pu^pofe.
Agreeably to this Liefuli'e —
The Contri tutors are' again requested
meet at the Pennsylvania liofpital, on the ninth
day of the vexl month, being the *d day of
the week, at four o'clock in the afternoon, to
re-consider anddecideupon the propriety of com
pleting the said Dome.
By order of the Managers,
Samuel Coates, clerk.
june«9 ftrojy
To be Let,
(And poflcflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
11 feet front, a»d 40-feet deep, with back buildings
and liable*,at prefont irt the tenure of Major Jack*
son. Enquire at 187 Santo Third street.
apiil 1* §By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORIC, July 5.
Yesterday the glorious aflniverfary of our
Birth-Day as a nation, was celebrated here
with uucommon demonstrations of joy, and
a peculiar glow of patriotic esthufiafm. The
day was Lirtiered in by the ringing of bells
nnd a difcbarge 9f eannon. The critical
and alarming Situation of our country with
rffpcA to a iireign power, which has me
naced even Our national existence, cali#d
forth the liveliest cffufiona of attachment to
our General Government, and a fervent,
solemn declaration from every heart, to de
fend, with the lad ftiillingand with the last
drop of blood, that sacred inheritance which
we received from our brave forefathers. —.
The (hips in the harbour displayed their
flags. The Military peculiarly attra&ed
notice. The new Troop of Horse, under
Col. Giles, commanded umverfal admira
tion—the several uniform companies also
did h gh honor to themfelve* by their mar
tial appearance, ?ndby the (kill which they
•discovered in performing the duties of the
field. The y >ung nun generally exhibited
their zeal in the moll honorable manner.
Mr. Well.* delivered, acc< rding to appoint
ment, a ve r y elegant and animated oration
t6 thofc of the** who had pledged them
felv. s to dvfe.id their country at a moment's
wnw'ng, a> d we are happy to fay that the
•affcmbly was very numerous. The several
■foci, ties fhtwed their n.fpe£t to the day as
usual. The different places of entertain
me t in the city and suburbs were splendidly
illuminated, and crowded with company.
Columbia, Rarelagh and Vauxhall Gar
dens, a: d evevy public and private house or
villa exhibited or.c continued anfmat-d scene
cf national harmony, courage and exulta
tion. Wf congratulate our readers on this
happy appearance of uwion and vigor, and
nioft dev i;tly pray that this day may ever
continue to our br ve, virtuous and induftri
•ou*' fellow-citizens, a day of general L(livity
ar.d co^graiuUtioii.
ToaO.l drank by the Merchants at the Cofiee-Houfe,
on the 4th of Jul v.
* 1. 7'hc Day. May it ever be the anniveifary of a
real not a nominal independence.
2. The Prelkient of the United States—May we
(land ready to record, with our blood, that he needs
no apology.
3- The Hero without a weak part—George Walh
in^.on.
4. The Congress—No contest there, but who
do moll for the public fafety. -
5. The Governor and Sate of New-York.
si. Our envoy# extraordinary—rich in th&Javor of
their country—-glorious in the enmity of its enemies.
7. The Youth ot America—Courage to dare, For
titude ta pcrfevere.
8. American Piinciples, AfFe&ions and Habit*.
g The People of tnc United States*—No tribute
but from the Mouths of their Cannon.
jo. GrratVicu-o worthy of Great Oeftinies■
11. Our rising Navy—May it prove a Hercules from
the Cradle.
12. A fufficient army well appointed and wcHdif
ciplined.
13. The Militia of the United States-—May they
more than pieferye th? Reputation they hzve earned.
14. Agriculture, Commne, and Manafo&ure».
15. The -American Fair---May they have brave
defenders to »eW»rd, and kmdnefs to reward brave
defenders.
16. Th«* Common dacfe of Nations---The over
throwol' French Power and Principles.
Volunteers.
Bv the President Mr. Mur.ay* The commerce of
the United States, irav' it be courted by jl!l nations
and controled by o'onc'-
Bv V. P, Mr. Broome.
May every returning nrniverfary of tne Tndepen
d**n£Vof' .A mo sea be attended wiih encreafing prof
perky arid happiness to the liateel New York,
By 2 i V P. Mr, Ray,
Peace, Libertf and Good Government.
BOSTON, July i.
On Thursday fatt, the Le£ifla'ture of this
Commonwealth, after an important and patri
otic feflion of about four weeks, was prorogued
to the second Wednesday in January next.
The patriotic ad 'refs .to the President from
the state of pafTcd unanimous'
iy in the Senate ; ami was iamStioned by one
hundred and thirty-tw* yeaa in the- house j the
sotsi 8 following members, viz.
W. LANG DON, j BAKTLET T, and
DKOV/NE, j SANBORN E, '
were the conspicuous Na-r«. If they derive any
honor from being thus recorded ; they are <wel~
tome to it.
Capt. Clements, arrived here yesterday from
f'ne IHe of France, informs, that the request of
Tippo Stiib 10 the government of the island, for
military iffiOahce had been complied with ; and
that the troops had failed ; the obje& of Tippo
was a war again# the Enjrlifti ; and aa a proof
of his attachment to the French, he had made
overtures for tiTccSling an alliance, offcfifive and
defenfive.
Capt. C. also informs, that a few days pre
vious to h s failing, a second St. Domingo scene
was plotted by the fans-culottes; but that a time
ly difeovery had prevented its dreadful conse
quences; that the terror which this infernal
scheme produced among the inhabitants, Lad
caufe-d the troops to be ordered away ; and that
they had all actually embarked for France.
A veflcl from Lisbon, arrive ! at Halifax,
b.rimgs intelligence of Lord St. Vincent's fleet
having captured and sent in a Spanifti ship worth
3,ooo,«oo dollars.
The Subscribers to the fund
for building the ship to be loaned to the United
Stares, are hereby notified that 25 per cent upon
their refpe&ive fubferiptions i, now called for—
and that noreß payable ac 60, no and 180 days in
equal proportions will be received for the remain
der. Thefecritary will attend at the office of the
comirirtee from t© to 1 o'clock every cay, to re
ceive the iamt, and give receipts therefor.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
i"iy .1 S
LANDI N G,
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
ned icut, from Bat «via—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of die growth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifterfr 4 —lor sale by
FKTER BLIGHT,
WHO AI.SO ®FFE R S FOR BALE,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Biaudy lit and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
-and quarter caflts
MadtSra in pipM
Old Bataria Arrack
Wi* s
'Ctie
PHIL "A DBLP li IA ,
FRIDAY" EVENING, July 6.
CINCINNATI.',
elegant cntertsinnv nt jriven by the
Penr:fylvania Soci.ty of the Cincinnati, at
O' Ellers's Hotel, to celebrate the Auniver
fary of America-. Indepv dence, to which
were invited the Prlident of the Senate, the
Speaker of the House of Reprefentatiycs,
the-Heads of Departments, th« Ju '-ffcs of
th« Supreme Court, a'-d the Mc-nbers be
longing to other State Societies oj the .Cin-
at prcfe. t in Philadelphia, thi fol
lowing toalU were given. Ma y patr oiic
fo?g- were sung, and t c >oucluded
with the utmolt joy and cordiality.
lfl- The Day: M'iyvjh- iirubu iia'fm of its
celebration increase with each anniversary until
time Oft .ill be n j more.
sd. The Conliitwion of the United States,
the Palladium of our Uappiu is 4 May p. vet
ft.ffer it to he wrtftfcd i'roin us by foreign ene
mies or domcftio traitors.
4th. Th« Prefidtr.t of the (Jn'ted States :
Mav helowg fiVtf t.> support dinfity of our
Free, Sovereign, Inaependetit ar.d Powerful
nation.
sth. The Semte and House of Reprefenta
tivs : May thvy give aa example to the world
of Ur.ioo and "•"* lfdom.
it/j GeneralWa&ingtf 11 : May the admira
tion » f his wcrrh be the pr .teful theme of Ame
ricans while their empire and the world iliall
endure. *
I 7tb. The American Army : May Love and
Laurels reward their vdor. and the grateful
| praise of their country perpetuate their Fame,
j Bth. The Navy of Ihe United Statfe.s : May
I they teach the pirates of the ocean juttice at
the mouth of the Canncn.
9th. Confufion to the councils and disgrace to
the arm* of any nation, that would infringe the
rights or impair the Independence of the Unit
ed States.
ioth. Those Herdcs who fell in cftablilhing
our Independence : May tHe memory of their
zeal fir ike deep into their countrymen a horror
of iubje&ion
11 th. Millions for defence—not a mill for
tribute.
Vith. Our late Envoys to France : May their
firm, pure and en'ightened conduft put to fhime
the vile contemptible vauatcrs of diplomatic
ikiil.
13th. The generous You'h of America, who
have already formed an Evincible Barrier against
the open or insidious attempts of our enemies.
14th. May a sense of nonor never be damped
by cold sophistical calculations of pounds, shil
lings and per*ce.
1 sth. The ProgreG of Seience and true Re
ligion : May they forever form the Pillar 9 of
our civil and social edifices.
16th. The Belt and Faireftpart of our Com
munity ; May Merit only win their Smiles and
Hapoiaefs be the Companion of their Virtues.
The following gentlemen are ele&ed officers
of the PennsylVania State Society of the
Cincinnati.
General Mifflin, President"
* General Moylan, Vice President
Major Jackson, Secretary
Major M'Connell, Afliftant Secretary
Charles Biddle, Esq. Treasurer
Colo«el J. Moore, Affi 'ant Treasurer
• Standing Committee.
Colo- c\ Johnlton
General Macpherfon
William Bingham, Esq.
Major Moore ..
Colonel Nichols
Colonel Pickering
Colonel Mentges
Delegates to the General Meeting.
General Moylan
William Bingham, Esq.
Colouel Pickering;
Ricbaid Peters, Esq.
Colonel Johnfton.
On the glorious anniversary of American
Independence, the officers of the second re
giment of the city of Philadelphia, under the
1 command of Colonel Scott—and captain
Johnfon'3 company of Infantry, attached
j to the fame, after attending to the general
! order* of the day, partook of a plentifulte-
I past, provided for them in a rural situation
; in the neighbourhood of Southwark. Din
! ner being over, the Adjutant of the above
Regiment, prefentedthe company with the
following truly American toads, which
were received by every person present, with
the most enthusiastic applause—each accom
panied with a dilcharge from tha attending
Infrauty.
1 The 4th of July—the grand political birth
day o' American Intiependenc—vlay our citizens
ever keep it in the moil glorious remembrance
and may each returning day continue to unite us
in such lentiments, that we may prize rational liber
ty, above all bladings.— (9 cheers )
2. i'he united Scat-s of America—May its citi
zen thenceforward remember, they are " freetpotv
erfuly and independentand that no nation or people
whatever will cultivate peace and friend (hip with
them any longer than iutereit sways their inclina
tions-—(9 cheers.)
3. The President of the United States—May he '
continue wife in adlton and firm in'action, repell
ing evei y unconstitUtional eucroachmcnt with dig
nitied firmnefs.— (9cheers.)
4. The Senate and House of Reprefentstives of
■the VJnited State?— May they he more unanimous
in thetr proceedings, rem mbering, there is a fpi- 1
rit in their conMituents, that disdains dHhonorable
fubmiifion, and will relent unprovoked aggretf
ion (6 cheeri )
5. The Lonf.itution of the United State*, the
reward of an arduous ftrutf«r|e and the blood of
patriots—May we nevftr fuller thift sacred
of rur mod precious right-., to be corrupted by
pretended friends, or violated by ur.priiuipleu foes.
-—(9 cheers )
6. Washington the great, the good, the br-ve
—V a y Am ricaa gratitude, for hkiVrvices, never
cease to cxilt, but with time itfelf.—(l6 cheers.)
7. Soldiers of America- We salute you as ob
je£l* of our cfteem, and the admiration of the
world —(3 cheers.)
8. Military Chiefs—May the attachiaent of
their brothers in arms, and the tia:u]uility ot do
meflic citiz ns, be their richly defervad reward.—
(3 cheers J |
9. The immortal memory of those worthy pat- \
riots who fought, bled and died in the caufc oi' A- .
merican —cheers )
jo. May ? he Amcricjn people nobly flcp forward ;
in Support of the governrr.rnt oi their own choi '
a; d never cor.sent to purchale a difgtacdul psace
from iKofei A-liofe onhy aurj is jitnni-.laa and paw
C—(9 che-'o V
it. Ourl»frrnvnys to France- May thry meet as
they mofi co <L ; .illy a hearty we com.- to she
hofomof th.e » sjr::»cful country—(s-ch^ers)
ii. On» i•-fW-it it not be w in
point of vijforom >mnhood, while und-T the pioirc
t:on of die merican cheers )
13 Miy A.-Ticican c» ijrns, i.i the cx;'rcifc of their
i/j Mjyt'i creature# (for furM there aie) who are
base, low and todnelarf, "they will for?
ih- \inc'i!cafl caiWc, in»ftr fryi-ijr mft ncftt, and
j join the ft.t dar.l of tn inva<iiiigfce," meet t hp ven
geance of and r.no execration of all pood
Tsen—(9 rhem ) »
'.5 ihe love of our country, pur's and unmixe-l
wi .» foreign in.l coce, domedic orgroundlefs
tli r coni'T,t-- [^rhtcrs.)
16. The Governor, Senate and of R-pre*
c;im ivps health and ai
e d b< in ; when th y mcc: again as'a les>ifluive bo
d\. i>>i. they rig- ?hr I'trmion to that Mili'arv laws
of this irate, wh.cn requires— cheers.)
Extract of a letter dated fiamlur^h t 26-/2 \'arih, >79?'.
• 4 a sraera pe>cc is unhappily net likely to take
placi* so »n; bu yur city and tieighborhoorl, we hope
vi til continue trjlAquil, and as our (emte agrees to
mA" a loan to :i.»e F«ench gover-'mrnt our commerce
wil not hz so liable to .he mo left d ai was aoprehen
r.ed In their irnprecsdented decees refpeciin? nen
t.als- which cer canrioc looj4 exiffc; mid !>r »|i
th? agjtift E »j;itOi srood?- m'aHsarr I
abeaftv tifed. to have ihc.rn conveyed to their usual 1
markers "
£xr'ra& ofa letter from Boston, July 2, '9B.
" The fuijfcriotion at Taylor's office a
rr.opnt to 127,000 dollar-. The Frigate
( onllitution falls down to the lower haibor
this day ; she is allowed by good judges to
be as beautiful a vessel as ever fat upon the
water, and ha? a fine crew onboard."
Extraft of another letter, fame T ate.
41 The fubfeription now amo nts to
dollars. Not one person has been
solicited. We hav 1 been rather late, but
not the least, nor will Boftonians e«er be
when the good of our conntry calls."
From the Aurora of this morning.
Extrad of a letter from citizen Talleyvand
minister of exterior relations to the Con
sul General of the French Republic at
Pniladelpha.
6th Germinal, 6th year (,26th March.)
I enclose you my aufwer to the n te of
the commiiHionsrs of the United States.—
You will observe that I do a.v ay every ac
cufatlon, which' they had made against the
French government. The question, there
fore, now remains in its true point of view.
Two of ths envoys uregoi-.g to return; one
remains. This is a proof that there exiiU a
disposition to treat and that we are far from
entertaining the least idea of a rupture.
CONGRESS.
Yesterday, the House of Repreferitatives of
the United States, on motion of Mr. S. Smith
went into a Committee of the Whole on the
State of the Union, when he propofedthe two
following resolutions for adoption.
* * Resolved, as the opinion of this committee,
that the four regiments of Infantry of the prefetit
EJlablifbmenij bt increased to ten companies each,
each company to conftfl of fix ty private*.
i 4 Refolded, as ibe*opinion of this committee,
that the Prejident of the United States be autho
rized t* raise, in addition to the present Military
Eftablijhrnenty eight regiments of Infantry, and
fx troops of Light Dragoons, to be en lifted for
tlugeyears, or duriiig the war with France."
Ihe firlt-refutation was agreed to, whlioiit
amendment, and the i'ccond, after flriking
out the words printed in italic, and inferring
in their place, for and during the. continuance of
theexijlin fr differences betujeeri the United Srates
and the French Republic. After this amend
ment was adopted, and before the resolution
was agreed to, Da yton moved to ttrike
out eight regiments, and to irifert twelve.
This motion was negatived 41 to 30..
Mr. Allen propofea the following reso
lution, which was adopted.
44 Refolded, as the opinion of this committee,
that the monthly pay of the non-commijfioned offi-*
cers and privates of the Army of the United States,
ought to be augmented."
The committee then role, and Mr. Har
ker renewed the motion which had been ne
gatived in committee of the whole, to ltrike
out eight regiments, for the purpose of in
ferring twelve. After some debate she Yeas
and Nays were taken as follow :
YEAS.
MeflTrs. Allen, Baer, Bartlett, Bayard,
Brooks, Burgess, Champlin, Cochran, Craik,
Dana, Dent, Kdmond, A. Foster, D. Fofler,
J. Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon, Grif.
wold, Grove, Hartley, Hind man,
Hofmer, Jmlay, Kitteta, Livingfton, Lyman,
Oris, J. Parker, Rutledge, Sewall, biuiiick
fon, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Sprague, Thatch
er, Thomas, Thomson, Van Allen.— 40.
N A Y S.
Me firs. Baldwin, Bard,. Benton, Blount,
Bullock, T. Claiborne, W. Claiborne, Clop
ton, Coit, Dawfon,Gallatin, Gillefpie, uregg,
Kanna, Harrifon, Havens, Heifer, Holines,
Jones, Locke, Lyon, Macon, Matthews,
M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, Njw, Nicholas,
Reed, Scluireman, Shepaßi, S. Smith, \V.
S>n.th, Stanford, Su:nptcr, J.
Trigg, Van Cortlandi, Varnum, Venable, R.
Williams.— 40.
The Speaker declaring himfelf in the affir
mative, the queltion was tamed.
A committee being appointed to bring in a
bill accordingly, Mr. Sjewall moveo toin
t.truCt the committer to enquire «vl>ether any
and what alterations are necetl'try in the law
the Mil tary Eltabiilhmcnt, and to
raport bv bill or other wife.
Mr. Harper made a report on the organi
zarioti of fiie Executive Departments, and a
bill to alter and amend tcveral acts relative to
the eilabliiiiinent of the War and
Naval Departments, which was c mmitted
for to morrow.
A bill v\ as received from the Senate, in ad
dition to the act, entitled 4< an ait for the pu
nUhnient of certain crimes against the United
Matey." This bill provides that ifauy persons
lhall unlawfully combine or canfpire toge
ther, with intent tooppofeany measure of the
government of the U. Slates, or to impede
theoperjiionof any 4 law, or to intimidate or
prevent any person holding an office under the
government, from exereiling his trust ; and if
any person lhall by writing, printingcy speak
ing, threaten luch officer with any damage to
his character, person or estate, or lhall coun
sel, advise, or attempt to procure any insur
rection, riot, &c. whether inch attempt lhall
have the de fired effect, of not, he fhali be
deenied guilty of a high mifdemcanor, and
punilhed by a fine, on Conviction, not exceed
ing and by imprisonment not less
than fix months, nor exceeding five years. —
A-nd if any person lhall, by any libellous or
fcandalt;us wilting, printing, publilhing or
speaki rtg, traduce cr defame the I*g&! ir.ircpf
the United States, by fedirious 01 inflamma
tory declarations or exprefiions, with intent
tocvefce n belief in the citizens thereof, ihnt
flic said legiflaturt ii re rutting any law, was
induced theffcrb' by motives hostile to the
conjHtation or liberties and
of the pcaple thereat; or Hirtll, in man- \
ner aforcfaid, traduce or defame the Prgfident !
<<f the V. States, or auv court or there
of, by declarations fending to criminate the ; r
motives in any o flic ra I*tranfaC:l ion, the
so offending, being convicted, shall bdpun-ifh*
cd by a fine not exceeding 2000 dollars, and
by impirifonmeht not exceeding two years,. 1 :
This bill having been read the fird time,
Mr. Livingfton moved 'hat it be rejected.—
This motion introduced a verv long and a ve
ry warm debate, in whcha tv.iniberofextracts
were read Irom, arid much said refpecVmg cer
tain public prill?s of this city (particularly
the Aurora). Tito motion on a.rejection of
the bii! was tak,e.n by yeas and nays, and ne
gatived 36 tg 47. The bill was then commit
dte for to-morrow.
Mr. ALa en laid a refoJution upon the ta- j
ole ;o the following effect:
u Resolved, That a committee be appoint
ed to cottfider upon the expediency of deelar •
ing, by a legislative aft, the state and relation
f ibfifting between the United States and the
French Republic." Ordered to lie on the •'
j table.
For ehe Caze'te of tie U.nlteJ Bidlest
'' YET forty days and Ni..eveTi fbaU be
ov rthrown" he who had been swallow
ed by the whale.- And b cause i' pic a fed
God tofpare that " very great city" " Jo
nah was difp!eaf"d exceedingly, and-he was
very angry*'—angry even unto death, far
fays he '' take O Lord, T hefeeeb thee my
life from me, for it I*s better for ire to die
than to live." And thus it is with bur falfc..
prophets ; they have long foretold, what
they wish, the downfall rf our 'oveinmrnt,
and the introdu&ion of pure Jacobin prin
ciples and pra£t ; ce ; when the French (hall
give us complete liberty to cut one an
other's throat?. I fay because thefc dam
nable prophefuse pre r,ut fulfilled, thel'e J,v ;
cobin prophets are as mad as ever Jonah was ; j
and as foqlifhly Uubborn. .They wouldfoon- I
r give up their fir 11 born than their errors. '
They would ft e the United Statesenveloped j
in one general conflagration, rather than re
nounce these abominable French principles ;
notwithstanding they know that a lying fpi- j
rit has been sent forth to deceive them. If
'.hey cannot change and become true men,
ihey ought to have more spirit than to live
among us defpiCed as they now are. The
traitor Ahitbophel had more spunk. When
he found that his advice waa not followed, in
the affair of Absalom's rebellion against his
father, he could not brook the disgrace for
a moment. "He arose, and saddled his ass
and gat him home to his own country, and
put his household in order and hanged him
felf." This is doing business like a man j
who had a proper sense of his crime. And! !
who can tell but a noted modern counsellor
has now gat him home to put his household in
order, 6sV. If fo—T would to God
all traitors would muster up courage enough
to follow his example : for certainly the
jullice of their country lingers. lam
An Enemy to 7 rait ors,
Wj 3-
" A Reformed Democrat"—to-morrow.
GAZETHTTIARINE ■ LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA."
ARRIVED,
Sclir. Nancy, Wilson, Gedrge-'own, 7
The ihlp Fame, Ricard, fro n Porto Rico,
t isbelow.
The brigEnterprize, Langdon, from licnce
to Jamaica, is taken by the French, and (cnt
into Uaracoa—cleared, and the capion ap
pealed for a new trial.
The Delaware sloop of War left New Caf
tlc yefierday morning. .
Bojfon I-
Lafl evening r.n ived, ship Columbia Tho
mas Clement, qommatider, in So r'ays from
the I lie of France. Lefi there in addition
to til ife memiotied by capt. Prince arrived
at Saltm brig ally, ierporit, 155 days
from Ballon, arrived 7th April ; fchr. Argo
Byas from Baltimore ; ("hip A" ica, Newell
failed id April fir Hamburg with capt.
Daniel Oliver, late of lie Gov. Bowdoin
and Mr. John Clement, pa(T:iieers. April
23d, lat. 35, 31, long. 34, 16, E. fpnke
ihip Warren, Gaitwnglit, of Nantucket,
from Calcutta, in want of fail 9 and water
his intention was to stop at St." Helena, capt
C supplied his wants. Ju ie 17 spoke the
brig Chace, Mills, from Baltimore, for Hi
fpani /la, 1it.23. 4s> N*-'ong. 57,24, Weft.
Same time arrived- (hip ,Sultan, Capt. Jo
seph Clement, fr-im Isle of France; via Cape
of Goad Hope, 63 days Left at the latter
place, (liipCleopatra, Oekay, of New-York
Hope, I'arren, from Bataviaj brought in
and under trial ; captain Cleveland, arrived
from Havre de Grace, had fold vcffcl ;nd
cargo. June 14, lat. 31, 20, long. 60 30,
saw a wreck bottom upwards, with a white
IU-rn, about 55 or 60 sett keel, appeared t;>
be a new vefifel, and a brig two holes fcut
tlcd in hrr bottom, her curgo fuppr.fed to
be lumber.
7 o oe Sold,
A two story frame House,
WITH the lot of ground thereto fi
riiatffcl on the weft fide of tilth street, between
Lonib-irJ and South itrejts. The house if aboi't
17 feet front; and the lot 37. feet. Id front and 90
sett deep, to an alley of 10 feet. The whole is
clear of ground rent. For terms, apply to
SAMUEL COATES,
No. 83, South l v rom fireet.
j"'v 5 *d2\y
The vjarjjo 01 Nathaniel Day ley, c-ptain
.Cambell, from Jamaica, will commence landing
TO-MORXOiV, at South-ftrect Wharf. .
Sugars ol Prime Quality in Hhds.
High proof Rum.
FOR 9ALE BV
Peter Blight.
Who also offers for Sale,
A choice parcel of lii and 4'th proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter casks
Madeira in* Pipm
Old rraclc.
June 13 sI odti^Jy
Mr. Fgmneli,
FJ ESPSCTF'J* 4<Y ir.f rnjs his f and the
V public; that hv will del ve on ondayeven
ing nexf, the 9th of July, at »1g t o'clock, at O'El
iciYs !'• el.
| - RECITATIONS,
COV.HTI.'G at
A Psetie Epift'- ad drilled t-> the Yaiin£ Mci of
Ph 4 tdelphia, whofirft offered .heir fcrvices tp tbeii*
cou try.
A Poetic to th<* Fair of America, and
other pieces. J' •
%* Tickets half a doftr each, to he h 1 . ofi\ r.
Fennell, at Shaw's Medicinal Watehoufe, Ch-.fnut
ftr.'et, C«?i'ncr olFourth'-fi.:
j j.sne 18
Office for Stamps,
KV 51 Scoon'l firett, t)e cjrntr 0f 'C/icfn t fire :t.
ALL fori sos B! ink Mamp*, lo d by VVI I. l s
YounC, at the price gn.preflVd thereon. A O
printed forms of Bonds, Bills of Lad-trig* &c and
CoppcfpUtf- B:'Is of Exchange arid r:6mm"ory N'o e»
&" a' tin* rate, 2ud ihcaridi.ion of the Itariu
' thereunto bjloogiijg*
VV. Young has conftam'v on h ir.d a- lar»*.c aflo-f
---ment or (» he priacd ar«d all kinds of Pa
per, and Stationary, whoiefalc and retail.
i'dv 6 endgw
SiHaihon ! C-aiiat r y I
a meeting of a nutiv cr of citizens held at
i the hoiifefof \Vi!'!i«ra O^d.-n^'fot-the pnrpofe
I of tr op of H*i.To (t»W attache 't»
J*. .acphwrfon's .Plugs') {he Vo(io\v»n£
were «pr*o?ilt-?d an elegit V^tnpnfre?.
Robert Wharton Pm>lt?f-et Wharf
JarrieS Sifftmt >m N . 11 Sr. Vil-'ph street
Jov.arhan Rcbefta Sf'uV W-Uayf
, foh* K. Tay-or 2\ • 5 Ch'jrrh alley
■ Kelih 2<)7 So.. F.-ont-flrcct
Foaflord Ft -y 11 . .rc\k flreet
Hen v Nixm? a \ ;s ine T.rert
TbtJie E?nil<rm4n of tin- C*ty % in 1 Liberties
who are dXirOii* of 'Meßlbers of thjj
• iayie wili. apply attire i» ••• 1! 0+ either or' t! e
commit.?e or 51 the- liMile of Mr. YVtSlj m O,'-
. den in C;.is'V*tit iirt t every Tucfday and fAdif
-fveair.«; t wbrfc ti.-ry wiii arc<ud fro-u 2 to 9
o'cW-k For that pu/poJe.
juiv 27
v> # * Tb J dijf\rent print &rs of the city are re*
• qitejledjo pxi/iy'j Ihe 'JwrgOing,,
Artilierills. •
THE pattern or
i 6th Company of Artillery, may be fe#rt .ttTCnpt
j Handled, in Race ftrect, {-y tl:p ;ncrnbers or fuc»
ptrlons as they lhay employ ; where an article of
agreement is prepared for fOch would wifli to
unite in a contra til for a rn mber of fuirs.
Capt. Handle, one of tht committee appointed
for the- admillion of new niem era, will receive
applications from fitch citizens of good moral
cl ara&er.as :.re defn ous to join said company.
JOHN WOODMOB, Captain;
Light Infantry—Attention !
THE members of the Fsdtral Light Infantry Ctm
fany, to the ift Regiment of Philadel
phia County Militia, will
TAKE NOTICE,
That the Governor has been plcafed to commifEon
the Officers for the said Company ; and that thejr
| have appointedTuefdays and Fridays, at half passe
4 o'clock in the morning, for parade. The mem
bers are requested to give their attendance accord
ingly.
Those persons who are inclined to join the faJd
Company, arc requited to apply at No. 163,
'Vfoc-ftreet %No 336, North Second-flreet } or on
the Parade.
N. B Good Music is provided,
june 19 »
Hank of Pennsylvania,
J u » *3» '9B.
AT a meeting of t'e Dire dors this dav,a divid«. ( d
of sixteen doHors on each fliare for the ufl fix months
ending the 30th uK. was declared ; which will be pjid
to the Stockholders ot their legal reprtffcntativSj a f tC r
the igih-inUant.
JONATHAN SMITH, CafLur.
j u 'y 3 dti 3
Bank of the United States~
'July id, 1798.
' I 'HE Oircilnrt have this dsy decbrert a ..!■
A dend of fixtten dollars, on each (h-. re a (
Stosk, for tjif lafl fix month# ■ Which will i.e
paid to ths Stockholdcri, or their RepreiVnta
lires, after the lath infant.
G. SIMPSON, Cttjhier.
J' u 'y 1 cod6t
John Haines -if Wm. Jones,
|)2G leave to inform their friends ami the public,
JO that they hive comm-no* I a,Co pa(tn?ffltip
> r i th« SADDLING B'JSINES?, which will i»
future be varried on under the iirm of
HAIS'ES is* JONES,
In Mailft llreet, No. . 31, o w door ahoTe the
corner of Fowrrh,—wheru they pVtiuait (it lead
to hope) tl™ their atteiitiaa to. sfoAJtnoirltdge in
buuncfj, rh. ir d<tern»ioatkin to lerve en the bell
teriT\i, ailU t!:(-1 r k -o'.vs attachr.tot as Native A
mtricans ro the Government aiid Comlitlition of
their Conutry, wdi entitle them to the encouraijc
mentof a generous public. Although tliay can- 1
not boast of ti.iviny; acquired their experience in
any pu tof Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pl-dgi.if; cheo-.felves thjt their. iriannfaAure Aall
be iafiritirt.t ugne in this ciir,
june 9.6. ' tuthstf
t'OK SALE, I
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Cherts of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, Hyfen, Souchong,
HylonSkin, Young Hyftm and Enhea, just ar
rived <n the Ships and Ontario ; fever.il com
plete fe'.s of elegant China; iooo pieces of Nankeen
ot fu peri or color and quaiiiy; a few pieces of com
mon rtadrafs Handkerchiefs ; a Urge qnantitv In
dia Silks, conhdiiigef lutcftrings Sailiieu, Persians,
See. &c. of different colors.
ALSO. FOR SALE —Entitled to the d'rawbaik,
5000 boxes of Pate GrafTe Cheese
in excellent order fcr exportation, just received by
1,, % and Joseph firm Amfierdara.
T. B. Freeman,
No. 39 Sou:.'.! Froic-ftrect, or at hi* counting
houfc, No. 40, So«tl>Water-ft rcet.
n-.v30. luf g c
F6R S \le, ""
A heat Coachee, .
WITH Vencfi •: blindsttlid glides, plated bar
pci»t :»ii i.i complete "rJcr, and litc ic worse thaa
new. —"at to—
A pair of gentle Bay Horses
may be had at a rate.
Apply at No. 52, South Second street.
June 23 . d7t
%* Uhe pr ice of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year.—Subferibers tuho reftde at
a dijlance from the,place cf publication, and
ivhofe papers are sent per pojl, pay fix
month's fubfeription in advance, and one
dollar annually for enclofmg and directing
their papers. The payments to be al-wayt
lX 'mentis in advance.Isaac Harvey, jun. |
HAS FOR SALE, , ! ]
At Nd. 9, South Water-stbiet, J
A O* C<
Prime Aux-Cayes Molafles 'J
Carolina Nice T
Ced Fifti, in hhds. and n
A parcel of men's and womens Combs, aflbrted. v
ALSO,
A few tons of Nicaragua Wood. t
jUne j
John Miller, Jun. *
MO. 8, CRESNWT STRfET, J
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta f
A Quantity of Sugar. c
Weft India Muicovado quality, which h« offers for
sale very lnw sos ca(h or at 60 days.
HR HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods, .
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, Jtc. &c. ,
•juoc E
Brandy,
Claret in hhds. r
White Wine in half hhds. 0
Clant ■> \
Frontinac f w;oes Cafci . ,
Sautcrne f
Lundi j
Red Skins
A_L S & t j
lbs* Jacquemel Coffee. s
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Ha vanna Sugar —and
jo Hogsheads of Tobaaco
FOR SALS BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
a J dtf
—-—- 1 1 ■ 111
bastian Voigt, ;
CLOCK to" WATCHMAKER, j
INFORMS his friendjand the public ingan-
era!, that he has removed from No. 149, North
Second.street, to Market, between Fourth and
Fit h-ftreeti. No. 173, where he cirneson the
above business in all its various branches.
He keeps as usual a general assortment ofwar
faftted watches.
iurea? jl!"
FOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
IO tOBs of Shett Lead
Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & C*.
jane 15
Madras ana Ventapaalem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarn'es,
•f the newest and mod approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
aii roa sale b 1
/Hex. J- Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
rrt*7 >B.
' L A N in N G,
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, James Yardfley, matter, from (
Port au Prir.cf,
S8 Hoglbcads ") Pr ; me s u „ r .
40 Tiercss )
35 Hogthead. 7 Co ff ee ,
iij Bags i
FOR SALE BY
Thomas W John Ketland.
■tfßO HAVE ALSO ON HAND,
lronmong' ry and Cutlery in packages
Cfcins alTorted in cases
Queen's ware in crates
Claret in hhds arid cases
Port wine of a superior quality in pipes, hhd*
and quarter c:ilks
New-York and Boston Beef, See.
)'ino ?6
Fresh Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hi 3 Coupling House, No. 54, Chsfnut-ftreet,
and BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, itid Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, alfar ted; black and coloured Lute
ftrintc? and Sattuis, Naakeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
They have aifo For Sale,
Eli wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. $
advertisement.
DESERTED from a detachment under 1 the
command of captain Edward Miller, Ra
tioned at Spring Gardens.
Jane 3d, 1798—John M'Kiflock, born in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
marked, aged 18 years, speaks broad, mlifted
by ensign Roots at New Btunfwick, had on his
full regimentals, stole a blanket when he went
iwiy, he is a druDkard and very alTuming.
June bth —James Crawfordi born in Chelter,
State of Massachusetts, hrown hair, grey eyes,
fair o mplexioo, five feet 11 inches in height,
a<{ed a* years, by trade a blacksmith, haJ on
h'is full regimentals and left his post when on
feotry. —— »lfo, .
Eliakim Stow, a prisoner, born in Symlbury,
State of Conneflicut, aged 36 years, black hair
ffark eyes and complexion, a repeated deserter,
vt-ry alTuming, writes a tolerable hand and is ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental Ihirt aid over
alls when he deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above delerters
and return them to Spring-Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to anv officer belonging to the United
State" or confine them in any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained (hall have ten
dollars reward for either of them, or for
the three and all reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
2 d regiment cf Infantry.
* * The different printers ia the union are
jtquefted to insert the above,
june 11 , ?
~ FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the FranWord Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
"fhefe filiations are contidered tn point of health
beauty and elegance, equal M any near the city,
and the road known to b* fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
ptan of the grounds is in the hand* of the fub
feriber, wh ) will ttiake known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 1, 3tawtf
NOTICE. |
J4MES CUM MING W Co. late of the city of {
Philadelphia merchant, having aflignrdoyer
certa'n lands, hook-debts, specialties, to
the subscribers, for the benefit of those creditors *
who have claims again it them prior to 'he year f
1797, that have or (hall fubfcriSe the said assign- \
ment within si* months from the date thereof
(ißth May, T798) Therefore, 1
All pcrfons who are indebted to said es
tate, for debt.n contra&ed before the month of
Jnne, 1797, nre hereby required to make imme
diate payment of their refpfl»<ftive accounts, to the
aflignees, at their office, No. 62, Dock street—in
failure whereof, a&ions will be inllituted for the 1
recovery of such debts as be not immediately dif- 1
chaigcd.
John Travis,
John Waddi gton, > Aflignees.
James 7aylor, j
fane 17 mwftiS
An Anchor found.
ABOUT three miles b .low the Cross Ledge, a
buoy was discovered on the eaftcrn fide of
the channel, which, on being weighed, brought
up an anchor of about 500 wr. without a cable to
it. There is no weight damped on the anchor,
nor any mark on the-buoy or aochor stock. The
owner, by applying to the fubferiber, on board
the schooner Mahala, at Levi Hsllingfworth's
wharf, and paying reafonabU charges and expell
ees, (hall have it again.
ARTHUR ROBBINS,
Captain of the Schooner.
N. B. The Anchor will be left with Levi Hol
lingfworth & Son, in conformity to the a<sl of the
State Legislature in such cases provided.
June Z7 tawim
Millenary Room,
Xl 6, Market street,
Mm CH R T S TA L,
INFORMS her friends, that (he has received by
the late arrivals from Europe, her ufaal ftopply
of the very latest fafhions in MILLENERY, &c.
with a gruat variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Ghip HATS and BONNETS, of the newest ihapes,
which will be opened this day.
fane ii 20
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emertics
Gorahs Mow Saunas
Mamoodies Penialcdes
Tickiries Baftas
Roioalls CofTas
T>oreas Tanjcbs
Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzics Carwah Cloths
An tkgOKt ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAIt
COTTON and GINGER
Mordctai Lewis.
may zj. zw z'a vJivr
Now Opening,
At Wi lj.l A m M'L a w s SaddleManufaAory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horfenaan's
Piftdls, direct from the Mantffa&urerrf m Lonrdfcii.
ALSO ON NArtl>,
Saddles, Bridfe% Holders, Hilt Covers, Light
Horferttfln's Cap's, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
apr?l 9 dtf
I O BE LET,
And peffejjion given immediately,
THAT vriLL KNOWN TAVIRN HOUSE,
No. 333, in Frorrt-ftreet,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the sign of the
Ewe and Lamb.
Enquire al No. 91, North Sixth street.
June 15 S
NOTICE,
THE Owners or Configneea of vessels per
forming quarantine are to take notice that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office" at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning ( Sundays excepted) such supplies as are to
be forwarded to veflels are desired to be sent to
the Health Office before the hour of nine.
8 $
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an«i Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countef* of Leicester Packet, in the Ilth
month, 1797. which vessel has been captured,
' and the Certificates supposed to bs loft.
4oeo dollars 4$ per cent. Stock, Handing on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
' and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United Stktcs
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, 1707
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at the Bank of
1 United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are delired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 26, 1798.
' law3m
LOST,
t ON TilE FOURtH IWSTANT.
A NOTE OF HAND, George Pennock, to
J. Dorfey, and S M. Fox, which fell due
[ on that day and was duly paid. The Bank receipt
, is on it, therefore it is useless to any other than the
owner. The parties wiH be oblige to any person
who (hall aeturnit.
! june 8
I Brown Stout.
- 50 calks BROWN STOUT, of 6 and 7 dcz.each,
Just received per capt Joyce, asd for sale by
* Benjamin IV. Morris.
LIKEWISE,
* aoo cases CLARET, of the very firft quality.
June 9. mw3ht
r Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK WATCHMAKER,
Corner of Front and Market Street.
WHERE he is just opening a very extensive
supply of clock dials, cait brass, bells, for
ged work and pinions, pumice (lone and emery,
fheetbr fs, hard and bench vices, witch and cloc
plyers, large and small files, {hoe and knee chapes,
chains, seals and kejrs, gold,>gilt aad silver watch
-- es, l'pring and weight clocks,
n junsiz tu&stf
I This Day is Published,
k AND FOR SALE BY J. TENNp, I
" AN ADDRESS
li To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and present state of
>- 1 French aggrtihon, with a (ketch of the infamou*
)- attempts to degrade the Government of the United
h States, and fdme reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
sent jear, by a Member of the House of Rcprefen
tatives. S june 11
Vn'rled States* 7
Pennsylvania Dtflricl. ) :
IN Pursuance to a Writ to me <Tre<Jied from
the honorable Richard Peters, f fq. Judge ot
the DiftriA Court of the United States, in and
for the Pennsylvania diflrift, will be exposed to
public sale at the Cu&om-houfe in the city of
Philadelphia on Wednesday the nth day of Ju
ly next at 12 o'clock at noon,
a Puncheons of Rum
I ditto, and
I Small cafe containing
Artificial Flowers.
The fame having been libelled againfl, profe
cwted and condemned as forfeited in the laid
Court.
William Nichols, marjhal.
Marshals Office )
24tb June, 1798. 5 July 3—dts
Silk and Cotton Hosiery,
ASSORTED IN TRUNKS.
LADIES and Gentlemen's silk and cotton Hose,
received by the Adriana, from London, and
will be fold very low, for cash or good nctes, at
27, North Third-JWeet.
June 20. eod wfm2w
Wir' LANDING,
From onboard the (hip Four Friends, and for sale
at the Store* of
JESSE & ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havanna Molafl'es.
June 13 £ $
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Ben)\miu Monteeth Master, from Laguira,
CONSISTING or
945 Farregas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora India
210 Bales as Cotton
4 Packagesof Goat Skins
By Wtilings & Francis.
No 21 Penn flreet.
July 2: dtf
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. 21 PE N N-ST R*ET ,
18 Bags Frefli Cloves.
Willings & Francis.
June ?g. dtf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a week, every Monday 13 Tuesday
i ICKKTS For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers office, Mo. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek bt>oks are kept for examination i.nd
repiftering in thi?, City of Washington No. 2.
and Patcrfon L»tteiies and information where
tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
thoriferl by la\v in any of the States of the
Unioti.
STAt> OP rat WHEEL#
Oneprhseof 10,000 dollars 10,000
Five 4,00® 20,000
Two 2,000 4,000
Nine 1,000 9,000
Nineteefl 500 9*s°©
Forty-foiir 206 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hondred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets willfoon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the laftday of drawing.
the business of a Broker duly ae I
fended to inall its branches at the above offict
may 24 w&stf
Wants a Place^
A mail, to attend in a Public House, or
afflff m a Porter Celler—one who can be well re
commended. A line dirsded to J. B. and left with
the Priwter will be attended jto.
}"'y 3'
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-llreet,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq. —This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fidered unnecessary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interefi. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG,
No. 12 Dock-ftrett.
may 16 §
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Proposals will be received for a Collect
or of the p oor Tax of the present year for
the City of Philadelphia—one for the Northern
Liberties and one for the Diftridt of Southwark,
who will be required to give such security as (hall
be approved of by the Board of Guardians.
Any person desirous of having either of the
above appointments is requested to bring for
ward the names of his securities on or before
Wednesday next the 27th inft. to
Edward Shoemaker,
127 Market-ilrfcet.
June 2f. <Hw
"7 JUST RECEIVED,
By the Adriana from London,
And for sale at this OJfics.
A few copies, in French, of a Werk entitled, —
" Hiftoire de Parfmitiiftration des finances de la Re
publique Franeaife, pend.nt l'anaee 1796. Par
Sir Francis d'lvemois."
Also,
A few copies of another production of the
fame writer, entitied,
" Tableau hift6iiqtie et politique de lVminif
tration de la Republique Francaile pendant I'annee
1797, des causes qui ont amene la Revolution du
4 Septembre, et de fe? Refultats."
jane 25
Salilbury Elfate.
, r P , HE Subscriber, propofmgto his bufi
X ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Bljft and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very Rood grift
Mill, with two pair of ftoncs ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces J
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand teres j
f of Land, one half of which i s under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
. Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(Uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
' to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-aioe gans
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
' into 32 pounders, have falltd on proving. The situ
" ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa£turr,and a place of arms lying in theftate
of Conne£hcut,and only 30 miles from several land*
iugs on the Hudson's river,an«l having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
r from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
iod which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with all theftockand utenlils, and have pofleflion
on or before the firlt of June next, and preparation
" may be madein the meantime for goingintoßlaft im-
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
s in good order, with forae coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
- terms, apply mMr J»feph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E(q.one of the Reprefentawve»>
in Congrefcfor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepretTHfesi ortotheproptietorin New-York.
For Sale;
The new ami fart bailing
. SCHO-ONF. R,
URE .
Ralph Pigot, mafk-r.
Now lying At Jefic & Robert W aid's wharf,
her length is lixty-fivc feet—breadth twenty feet
her depth nine feet ten inches and measures one
hundred and twenty tons and ao-9jths for
terms app y to the matter on board or
George Plum/ltd,
No. J66 South Front-Jlreet.
And now Landinc from on board the slid
Schooner
50 tons Logwood,
AND HE HAS NOW ON HAND,
A quantity of Sherry Wines
Nankeens,
China
Young Hyson Tea
Fans
Rice &c.
Which will be disposed of low for Cash or a
short credit.
July 3 .
For Bojion,
■ THE SCHOONER
rw ty' 7l S at Chefiut-flrect
John P. Caswfll, master.
A new veffcl, 100 Tods Burthen, fitted as a I
Packet, and has excellent accomodations for
paflengers For freight or paflage apply to
the mailer on board, or to
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
June 29 eodjt_^>
Tor' Liverpool,
THE SHIP
A< £2§K£* LIBERTY,
CAPTAIN BRAY.
A regular trader, and having
si£SGS*li3s£'ss2£*the greater part of her cargo en
gaged ; —will fail on or about the loth of next j
mc>nth. For terms apply at No. 74, North Front
street, or to
Rofs fcr Simfon
june 25 §
For London,
THE BARQUE
SMikj A D R I A NA.
SHE is now ready to take in, and will
fail in a fhert time, having part of
her cargo engaged.—For freight or paflage (having
excellent accommodations) apply t« the fuhferib
crs, or on board the vwiTel at whirf.
Knox, Henderfon, & Co.
No. 46, North Front Jlrcit.
Who have for Sale,
A Handlome Affortmeiuof the most
Fa(hionable Goods,
Imported in the Adriana, captain Lee, from
London, lately arrived, under convoy,
fore 2? $
For Hamburgh,
The faft failing Ship
Littie Martha,
p| c te order ; has the greatest" part
of her cargo engaged, and will fail with all pofii
ble expedition. For Freight, arply to
Jofoph Anthony iff Co.
iune 22. $
FOR LONDON,
The Copper bottomed ship
SALLY,
Captain Lpckyer.
confiderable part of her
cargo is already engaged j—to
fail with all convenient speed For terms ap
ply to ROSS iff SIMSOS,
No. iar i South Front-flreet.
June t.i $
~ LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown.
Mafler, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUMITV,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas & John Ketland.
Said Brig for sale,
fWith two pair four pound CAN
NON, and one pair lalb. CAR
,^g^&*.RONADES.
Cotton
Cocoa
Anatto Dye, or
Rocoa
JuH arrived, per the schooner Three Sifters, Will
iam ShuHtrofs, master, from Cayenne,
AND TOR SALE AT
No. 22, Little Water-street, by
JEHU HOLLINGS WORTH # Co.
juneoo 5
James C. Sff Saml. W. Fijher,
No. 13 Arch-Street,
Have for Salt
200 Calks best refined Salt Petre
Belt London Window Glass from 10 by 8 to
12 by 10
Ditto Glass Ware in Caflcs aflorted CDnfifting
of pirn and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glasses, Goblets, &c. 1
ALSO,
A few Balesof Red, White tad YoUow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 27 sawtf
TO BE SOLD,
4°,.939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Cretksand TetLMile Ran.
These Land'are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years r.gofor
j five ihillings per arre ; patented early in t7B7,ex
-1 cept 370: acres, which were patented in 1794;
5 pa*t of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra&
is betweesthe Ohio and Monongahela, very cen
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafhiugton, from 14 to x 6 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of ope fourth of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2t. §
IO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehenna
now, or late in the townships of Hamdcn and
Warreu and county of Warren.
These Lands, l«-om th'.ir quality and situation,
are a very desirable obje & for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april §|
Bank of North America,
June lath, 1798. :
AT * meeting of the Dlreftors, it wa agrees
to declare a Dividend of Six per Cent :
for the half year ending this day—which will
be paid to the Stockholders or their legal Rf
prefcntatives at any time after the tenth day of
July. By order of the Board,
JOHN AIXON, Prejident.
June 3Q dtnjy_
■VjOTICE—That the'firft Tues
day of August next, i& appointed for the
htaring before a Court of Cotrmon Pleas, of Al
legheny county, in the State of Penofylvania, op.
an application for the benefit of the a&s of this
State, providing for the relief of
ofs, having at June term left presented my peti
ti6n, with a (chepule annex«d, of all my
real, personal, and mixed, rights, and credits, to
be affig,ned for the use of my creditors.
WILLIAM WUSTHOFF.
June 30.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
TH.a I'propoiats will be recsrved at the Office ©£
the Secretary of the Treafary until the expi
ration of the i?th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firll day of
OAober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, koth days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrilt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Frefque Isle ; at Michilimackiuac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ; at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Loramie's More ; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knex and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at MaiTac; at any
plac or places on the east fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the MifSffippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
Scat# ps Kentucky, abd within the said Stau ; at
Knoxvllle, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of TenneflTee; at any place or
places on the east fide of the Rivw Mifliflippi, be
low the southern boundary of th* State of fennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies shall be required for any pods or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplie*
shall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to thole to
the posts before recited, a c may be agreed on be
tween United States and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th* fol
lowing articles. viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef «r twelve ounces of port;
or bacon
Half a jilt of rum, brandy or whif-"}
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts f,
•f vinegar, two pouadi of soap, f un . rG
■ r 11 \ rations
one pound of candles j
The rations are to be furniihed in such quantities,
as that there shall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the coniumption of the treops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit* Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
t of the other poits, for the term of at Jeaft three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provij
(ions, if the tame shall be required. It ist 4 * be un
der ft 00 d, that the coatra&or is to he at the ex
pence and risk of i<ffutng the supplies to the troop*
at each post, and that all losses sustained l y the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troop* of the United States, shall be paid for at
the -price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the.depofitionsof two or more persons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commifiion
ed officer, afce?rtaining the circuivftances of the
lofsand the amount of 'he articles for whisti com
pensation shall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
ps requiring that none of the supplies wJaich may
be furnifheaunder thepropofed' contrail, shall l*
iflfued, until the supplies which have or may be
furniihed under the contratfl now in force have
been cenfmmed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 27. qawtlsjy
lVlilJs, Portage, &e.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS:
TO be leafed, for a term not less than three,
nor more than seven years, a V ALUABLE
PiIOPFATV at the Seneca-.Falls, in the county o£
Onondago, and flato of New-York, on the Banke
of the Seneca-river, twojmiles well of the Cayuga
ferry, and eleven m>Vs east o» Geneva.
This eftabliMEiment ronfifts of an excellent grift'
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement,and
as much More in the vicinjty, as may be required
for future improvement.
The grift mill is a hanflfome, new and well fin \
idled building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 stories high
and furniihed with a run of excellent Burr flones
and another of Efopus' (tones, of the befl quality
—and the mod approved boults, &c calculated to
makff all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home confu oiption : It is accessible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake an J Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from its fituation/jcommands a veryextenfive and
encreaficg custom : The stream on which it ftands>
being the outlet of the Sinecarlake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevcreft feafou of the ialt win
ter, it is not liable robe impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, situate ! on the fame
llrcam, now furniihed with an ample itock of
logs, of which a supply may at a'.l times be pro
cured by land or water, of thebeft quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for theyfe"
of the miller, is new, and fufliciently liige : The
barn is about 4oieet square, and entirely new :
The portage is 3*4ths of a mils in length, along:
the Sensca-falls—over which were palled in the
Jaft y?ar, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objed is already produ&ivs of a
handsome income, which roust be incrcafing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of
must be numbered the fertility of the
country —being the b*ft improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter-",
course by land and water, the Genefice ftateroad
pafiang through it, as well as all water carriage to-
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben
wfiich renders it amoft eligible stand for a Store or'
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fifh and.
fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
Besides the mills already eredled at this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
maybe found necolfary—Fulling mill, baxk mil],-
tannery, forges, &c. may be ere<3ed at afmall ex
penc? —Iron ore may be brought in boats Irom the
Cayuga lake ; and it is tf.€»ght to abound in the
neighborhood
1 he Hock on hand w : llbe fold to the lefTee, and
thecatile, utensils, fmith r s forge, &c. may be fold;
or let the premises.
If apurchafe fliould oifer for the whole or av
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
F»r terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. WrL
HELMus Mtnderse, at the Seneca falls, or to the
fubferiber, Schene£ady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD,
june *5 aawara
President's Messages to Congress
THJSEof thejth, iiJthand aift ofjuneinil
also of the 3d April, and 4th ofMay kft, maybe
' had at the OlSce as the Sditar.