of m Ulittet) 9 and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1
1
Number 1690.J
Philadelphia Prices Current,
P*E qUAX-TITY O* WHOLESALE,
Correfted bjr the principal Mcrchnitt and Trtdan
3d FIKVAtI, 1798.
D. C. D. C.
AJlunt, per cwt. 8
Anchors, per lb. i* nj
Afhei, pot per ton - no 120
pearl . tto lit
Bacon, Ihoulder, perlb. , izfa
Ditto, fliuhei . it
. f Mess, perbbl. - 14 15
U )Prime, - - 14.
* SC»rjo, - 12
™ (Freih, perc*«. -
Kcer, Ajnerican, per bbl. . 6
Brandy, French, per g«l. - *J4 186
Bpanifh, - 1 20
Bread, (hip, per cwt. - 4 „
o«tp, pilot - j
Ditto, imil! water - 12
Ottto Store 6
Bricks, perthoufand .79
Soaids, oat, per m. ft. - (2
Outj, menhanubla. pine • 24
Ditto, Tap - 16 17 J3
Ditto, cedar - 24
Ditto White pine - 10 33
Ueanj, per bufli. - x 50
Eutur, por lb. in firlun - 16
Chocolate, per lb. * Jo 2 >
' Coal, per bulhel - 33
per tt>. - 13 *5
Cotton, - - »5 40
glajcfeed, per hhd. - IJ 11
■ f Superfine, pv bbl. of ig6ib. 8 50
$ - - 8"
® jHvu-raidH. best - 7
u. (Ship ftuff, per cwt. j j to
Cip, Holland,per gjl. . 66 90
Ditto, per c»fe ' - 7
Cinfeng, - 27
<fclu«, per lb. - to
f Wheat, jerkufh. r # *s*
* I R y<= - »
- j Oats - 40
* j Indian Corn - 671
■I Barley none at Market
(_ best (kcUod, per Jfr. 4
itoni, per U>. - i» 45
Hemp, per ton <- 167 ijo
Herrings, peT btfl. . 4
Hittes, raw, perlb. - 7
HogSiead hoops, pier K. - 39
Jlopcy, p«;r lb. .- 40
Inifigp, Fr. per]b.{with.drawback) p 20
Carolina . 40 50
f Castings, per ton 5(4 67
| RxilCa bar, gtf U» 918 33
Fennfylv«ma dp. j* 10} 66
o < Pig - ■- 33 33
£ j Street - ill 66
I Nail rods « 135 3 2
Hoop iron, per ton i4e
Leather, l'oal, .per Ik. , -ifi 20
Lemons, per bos, None in market
Lignum viue, per ton, - 12 26
%»ackrel, - 4
eal, 1 ndian, per bbl. of 196 lb.nttt, gSo
Mplafles, psr gal. - <4 60
f c 164 2d 10J 12/S
' 4 v
; > rn _. mß _ j w I lzd *° \ j
J / Common £ ~ u }
Jiinftfdj per gal. 8* .Jo
Tanner's, per bhJ. 14
■ Spermaceti, per gal. I
t J Whale, foattiern, 4>7
* ia. northern, 47
Sweet, per cafe ofT2 bot. 6
do. in flalfc, 30 dp. 9
Pet* per bufbel - i
Peppar per lb. - • <*s 33
Pi.nrtnto, n • t ' '-7
rorlc, Burlington - 19 so
Lower county - 16 1.7
Carolina - rj
Porter, Ainer. inclu. bot. per do*. 1 #0 a
40. battles returned 1 10 1 20
do, per bbl. • - 6 33
Pitch, per bbl. - 3 50
Plailler of Paris, per ton - IS 13
Raisins, per keg frelh - 8 50
Ditto, per jar - None
Redwood, ground, per li. * 8 10
JBUce, per £*t. - J
Rosin, - 3 Jp
per ga[. 4 40
a \ Antigua - I 33
» Windward - t .7 1 *3
(Country - ?3 '7
. per bufliel - 67
J".) Liverpool - - 53 S7
5 j Cadiz - 71 73
«» (U&oa - 75
Saltpetre, reined, jjer li. 37
Scantling Heart " 4®
Ditto Sap - 15 17 33
-Shingles, per*. *
•Shingles, 3 do. do. dressed » 18
Ditto. (18 imhei) - 5
Jhip-building, pr ton, w. oak frames, 24
Lrve oak and red cedar do. - 3®
■Shot per ton, - »«•
Segari. Havannah, boi, per M 4. 7 «
Seal, per piece -43 VI
Otter - • j 50 62 7
Minks T - J1 25
Foi, gray • »o 5°
red _ » - jo I
« Martial - if 5°
* Fishers - 27
3 Bears * . 133
RacoMii - - IS +5
Mulk-rat» • i® »o
Reaver, perlb. - 1 33
Deer (fait) • »» 25
Ditto, (fnmmtr) - 3° 33
4oap, common * 10
CaftiU -
Spirits Turpentine, per gal. - jS *<>
■ Pipe, per m. of 1200 piecet 55
15 W. O. hoglheed . 3S
» R. O. ditto - 24
J Leogan - 3°
f [Barrel - l 8 »0
. German, perlb. - It 13
2 >Englilh, bliftertd - 144
m per lea r4< 156
J; (Crowleyper faggot - 16
Stone Lime, per hhd. of ten bufheU 5 5 25
'Lump, perlb. - 27
« Loaf, fingie refined *9
* Hxraaaa, white -
o ' Ditto, brown, per cwt. '3 31
* Baft-lndta 14
I. MwCcovado, per cwt. - t» !•
Tar, Carolina, 32 gallon* 3 3 2J
Turpentine, per W>f. - 3 5*
f Hyfsa, par lb. - l »7 « ti
. ] Hyl'on (km, - 1 ,'j
" ; Young Hyson, _ - »
•t Souchong,. - • *3
.* j Congo, - - <7 7$
(.Bohea, - *S
f jawes R, aid too IV. a* l»
] new - 9 • $«
* | Rappal»annoek - 8 ajo
< Coloured Maryland . . mane
- | Georgia old - 9
«. | Peter iburg - 8
(_ Carolina • 9 9 S°,
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA:
Valuable Real Estate for Sale.
By virtue of ihe lait Will ani Tcftameut of Tho
mas May, dcceafed, will be fold at Public Ven
due, at the times and places herein *fter men
tioned, the following property of the tftate of
the said deceased
No. 1. A lot of ground and improvements in
Wilmington, fttuated on the north-welt corner of
Hanover and Weft ftretts, fronting Ho feet on the
former, and 60 on the latter, whereon is a twoftory
brick dwelling house, 24 feet by zo, with a frame
kitchen, and a brick Smith's (hop adjoining, fub
je& to a ground rent of 31, per annum.
z. A n unimproved lot of ground in Wilmington,
fronting 36 feet on Shipley rtreet, between Haao
ver and Broad llreets, running half way through t»
Tatnal tireet.
3. Three equal undivided fourth parts of the
ELK FORGIiS, and of about 1750 acres of land,
lituated in Cecil County, ltate ot Maryland, 858
acres of this land iia in one body, through which
runs tho main branch or falls of lilk. River, (a capi
tal dream for water works) whereqtn arc ere&ed
two Forges, containing five fires and three ham
mer«, three large coal houses ; a fmilh's, carpen
ter's, Ihoe-maker's, and cooper's (hop ; a large
merchant mi4l, and law mill, a mansion house,
barn, and (tabling, a house far a diitiilery, a lull
proportion of workmen's and other out-houfe«. Al
io an extensive and productive farm, having a large
orchard of choice fruit, 8o acres ot" meadow, and a
good proportion of timber Jand ; the dams, works,
and buildings are for the molt part in excellent
condition. The reft of the land lies in three par
cels, at the diltance of about 1, 3, and 4 miles
from the works, and is chiefly woodland, «n which
are likewise a number of houses for the accommo
dation of coliers, wood-cutters, &c. Thore never
has been lack of wood for carrying on thde
works in the most extensive manner, nor is it pro
bable there will be for a great number of years to
camp, the adjacent country abounds with wood
to be had at very reasonable rates. The works be
ing near the tide waters of ?nd Dela
ware Hays, afford water carriage to Baltimore and
Philadelphia, with only 10 miles land carriage to
thr Utter
extensive market down those bays, and the pen in
fula, which gives these works an advantage beyond
molt others in refpedt to price for iron. With the
works will be fold the fame proportion of the un
expired time (of fervitudej offeveral young maje
and female Negroes.
N. B. The moveable Stock of every kind be
longing to laid works may be had at private con
trait, together .with a quantity of cord wood, that
will be procured through the Winter.
No. 4. A plantation containing 132 acres, fitu
at« on the main branch of Elk river, where the
state line crosses, being part in Cecil and part in
Ghefter counties. There are on the premises a
good lag house, kitchen, weaver's (hop, barn, an
orchard, fpring near the house, a fufficieut
proportion of meadow and wood-land. On this
place is a feat Tuperior to most othejs for water
works.
No. 5. A lot of ground iiuiate oa the tide at
the lower landing of Elkton, fronting on the water
75 feet, and extending the fame width eastward to
the main ltreet, leading to said landing. On this
lot is a substantial wharf, having seven feet water
at low tide. A commodious warehouse on the
wharf, well fitted for storage of {rain and mer
chandize.
No. 6. One equal undivided third part of Joanna
Furnace, and of about 135 a acres of land thereunso
belonging, situate in Herks county, J-mnfyJvania,
on H«ty creek. taking
ore from the Warwick Furnace company. o*e
banks, for fupplyi/ig the said one third part for
ever, the furnace, mansion house, and all other
building?, and houses, {having all that are cufto
mary;about a furrwcei) are well conttmfted, and yi
prime order. This is a young and growing estate,
and promises fair to became very pro4ji&ive to the
future holder.
I he whole of the above property i« free of in
cumbrance, except th« ground rent mentioned
No. 1.
Numbers 1 and 2, will be fold at Mr. Brinton's
Tavern in Wilmington, on Friday 9th of March-
Numbers 3, 4, 4c 5, at Mr. Hollingfworih's Ta
vern in Elkton, on Tuesday I.3th March;—and
number 6, at Mr. Maccleas's Tavern in Mo»;gan's-
Town, Berks county, on Tuesday 20th of March
next. The sales will commence precisely at 2
o'clock in the Afternoon ot each of the laid days.
Tetms of payment—One third of the parchafe
money to be paid before talking poffeflion, the re
maining two thirds In three equa) parts, at 1, 2, Se 3
years, with interest, and mortgaga on the ptopcrty
for Security.
Poffeflion will be,given of No. 1, 2, 4, 5 tc 6,
on ill of April next, and of No. 3 onjthe tft of May.
For further information refpe&ing No. 1 and 2,
enquire of John Ha yes, Elq. in Wilmington;
•f No. 3, 4 and 5, of Mr. Jamxi Garrett, at
Elk Forge, and of No. 6, of Mr. S\m.u s i Ra t
t£ a, on thepremifes.
JOHN BROOKE, ; Surviving
ROBERT .MAY, $ Trv«tees.
January 9. tugt
Cochrane Sc. Thurjby,
No. 28, north Fronuftreet,
Have imported by the fundi y veiTels from London,
Liverpool, Briltol and Greenock,
A C-a.NE.RAL assortment op MERCHAN
DIZE,
Among them are the following,which they will dif-'
pole of on the most reaionable terms, at the cus
tomary credits, viz—
HATS in fi*all packages, a&fted
Striped, point and role blankets
Superfine and low-prized cloths 9
London and Yorkfliire kerseymeres
Twill'dgrey and striped coatings
Fianncls, baizes, and fwanikias
Moreens, durants, and callimauLCp^i
Crapes, bombazets, and wildbores
Nankeens, muftinets, and dimities
Iriih linens, (heetiags, and diapers
Checks, bedticks, and cotton ftripas
Ta4>le cloths and cotton counterpanes
Silk, cotton and thread hosiery
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, conftftiag of
Printed kerfeymeres,dimity and marfeillei
Long and fkort plye piuihes of most .colours
Velvets, thicksets and corduroys
Printed calicos, chintzes and lhawls
Linen, cotton, and bandanna handkerchief
Plain and fancy muilins and muslin (hawls
Luftriogs, persians and fattins »
Cambrics, Lawns aqd Gauzes
Laces, edgings, glo\ j and thr.eads
Sundry cutlery and hardware
London pewter in caiks, fins, &*.
[line 2 \ sis
; if OR SALE,
One »r t%u* elfgnut ntt*
Three Story Houses,
SITUATE 011 the weft fide of Front, below Lom
b,ud street, about twenty three feet eight inches
tront, forty two deep, with piazza and kitchen to
ea*h house; they are built of the best materials,
and in a particular good manner ; are very airy
aad convenient ; not quite finiihed ; bnt can be
completed in the course of five or fix weeks, the
weather permitting. Any a'terationc will be made
to suit the,purchafer, by paying partot the money,
and the remainder-in*one, two, or three yeara with
interest, tieauced by a mor'gage on the premises.
Apply tP SAML. R1.A13,
Swanfon, near Catharine ltreet, Southwark.
. Jan 9 tuths tf
THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 8, 1798.
tMPUKTF.3
In the Ihip Farmer, from Bordeaux, and the fftip
John, from Ainderdam, and for sale by
Daniel & Vincent i huun,
North Water ftrest, No. 115,
166 boxes white Graves win*, 12 bottles in a box
167 do. red do. do.
20 do. preserved fruits in brandy,
3 do. Plunders linen
4 do. brown Holland
% do. containing 94 travelling cases of differ
ent sizes and defcriptioas, plain, pol
iced and mahogany
3 do. containing 1 zoolbs thread of Rames
Also on hand,
159 demijohns
150 boxes window glaf*
3© do. white and brown sugar
kegs alforted nails Dec 11 f
TWb OK THttkii UivUhMfiN
May be accommodated with
In an eligible ittuation.
Enquire at the oifice of this gazette.
)anzj tuths 3 1
Landing
Fronton board the Brig LIBERTY, at the lower
iadc of Market ltreet wharf,
83 Bales of fiift quality COTTON,
A quantity of heft green COFFEE, and
56 lihds. MOLASSES. Fer sale by
) ROBERT RALSTON.
Who has also for Sale, v
Rice in whole aad half tierces,
Hifpaniola Coffee in hhds, and
Table antl tea setts of Chiaat
Jan. 24. mwf 3t
Mr. BYRNF.S's 4th'ball will be on Tuesday
the 3iath January, at O'Ellers' hotel. GentEe
men's tickets one dollar, to be had at hotel—
Ladies ticket?, of Mr. and Nffs. Byrne, No- 114,
north Sixth street.
The days of tuition far young ladies, afilfted by
Mw. Byrne, arc op Tuesday and Saturday morn
ings—ln the afternoon of the fame days for young
gentlemen ; and and Saturday evening s
for gentlemen. Jan. 2d d4t
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RAN- A WAY fr<nn E/ixafrrtJb tpwrt, in Ncxu
<2 mulatto m*n, tuttned Montgomery —
a&fijit 20 year* old, qr.inch high, 'well mad?,
has l>n/py hair which comet to a pointy lovj on bit
forehead y and drawn in a fmali queue behind, he hat
a do-TMn Uok, rather has remarkable red
chefkt, good teeth, cheitux tobacco and it fond of
drink—lt is fuppoftd he it rn Philadelphia, a* pe
imas fith within a few miles of the eitj. Whoever
•UjUI take up said man, andft cure hint, that his maj
tex may get him again, shall receive the above re
ward and reasonable charge* -paid. Apply to the
Office of this Gazette.
All persons are forwarncd not to employ or har
bour said ft rv ant man. Dec 23 —tuthstf
T
Musical Instrument
MANVFACIORT,
No. 167, Arch street.
Harper, barpjjchirds, grandi portable grand, fife
board, pier tab I* and fyuare piano forte maker 9
frjm London, returns thanks to his friends aqd
the public, for their liberal encouragement, and
I hopes that by his ajfiduity and attention to cvety
hrztuft ff hit lujinep, continuance ps their
favo.urs. Piano fhrtes made ort the newest and most
. approvedflans r ujith pedalx, patent ,fwelt* & French
barpflGp, which he flatters bimfrlf xviU bt found
on trial by unprejudiced judges, to be equal if not
fUper'wr to ahy imported, find twenty per cent,
cheaper. Any instrument purehafe/l of him, if npt
approve-d of in twelve months, he will exchange. j
N. B. All hinds of Musical Inftr.uments made,
tuned and repaired with the great eft accuracy, dif
pan h y and on the most reasonable terms, far nady
money only.
Sesond hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
The American Ladies
Pocket Book for 1798,
JUST -PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH
No. 17, l'ouih Second ftreet —>C(»ntMning
An elegant frontifpicce of the Marquis de La Fay
ette and his family in the castle of Olmutz, with an
illustration, being an account of the
in the public life of the Marquis, 'with a Iketch of
the fufferings of himJelf and his unfortunate family.
A complete almanac— 104 ruled pages fpr memo
randums, observations &c. all'o for accounts of mo
neys paid and received for every day In the year.
A marketing and other ufeful tables —General meet
ings of Friends—Lift of birth, deaths, 4cc,r—New
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's Anhval Packet
Remembrancer for 179S —Containing, an .Al
manac ; 104 ruled pages for Memorandums and
Caih account; Duties p yable on goods imported
into the United States, Custom-house fees, Arc. &c.
Stamp Duties, to take place after the 3 ift Decem
ber ; a lift of the Pott Towns aad crofs-i oads in
the United States ; a variety of ufeful tabled, -and
otker inttreliing matter.
W, Y. BIRCH conftautjy keeps for sale a gene
ral aftbrtment of Merchants* Account Books, and
other ftatio >ary goods and makes to order books of
any size and ruled to any pattern.
Eleq.ajit Mass on rollers, and a large
Chart or the W Est'-Indi ej.
Hair and LeatbenTrunks-r Play jag Cards, Eng
-1 iih and American. od ru it&stf
100 Dollars Reward.
TAKE NOTICE.
WAS LOST la It night at Edward Pole's auc
tion room, a Red Morocco POCKET
BOOK, containing the following promissory notes,
viz. John Duffield's note dated the zythNovember
lait, at 60 days, for 343 dollars aad 57 cents;
Montgomery antl Newbold's two notes dated 29th
November last, one at 90 days for 1550 dollars, and
the other at ico days for 1543 dollars 47-iooihs;
Watson and Paul's two nuCes dated 16th Decej&ber
last, .each for 2250 dollars, one at 60, the other at
qo days ; Geoige Alhbridge's note dated the ift
iaft. at 60 days, for 350 dollars. The above notes
areall payable to the l'ubfcriber.
William Rogers to Francis Barker, by him
iudoried, dated 25U1 November last, at 90 days, for
IS2 uoils. 72 cents.
Ward Cadogan's draft on Hallowell and Hhoads,
at 6q days, for 1000-dollafs, and by them accepted,
and endorsed by Ricketts and Newton, payable to
the order of the fubfenber.
The fublcriber's note to George dated
the firft instant at 60 days for 175 dollars, and by
him indorsed. Four notes drawn by Juhn Nichol
fan, aad indorsed by Robert Morris. Three dated
15 January 1795, at three years, [pr 2000 dollars
each, the other dated 10 January 1795, at three
years, for 4000 dollars, all due and regularly pro
tected, by Peter Lohra, notary public, with a num
ber of other valuable papers that can he of no use
to any but thr fybl'cribar j payment being stopped
on all the notes.
It the perlon who has found the above pocket
book will forward it wn.il the contents, to the lub
fcriber, on Chclnyt ltreet wharf, fliaJl receive a
reward ot on: hundred dollars, and no oueftions
alkeJ. CHARLES SHOEMAKER.
Jan 11—25 1 .
Bank of Pennfyiva-rxia.
AT a meeting of the Stockholder, held n the
Bz»ok on Fr : -4ay f the 2d. February, 1798, pursu
ant to ptsblic notice—
On motion, Resolved. That, this maetjng be
ing impre.fed with a due sense of the extraordina
ry ferric** and attention of Samuel M. Fox, fcfq.
Preiidcotof in the execution of the du
ties of hi* office ; which have been much incteaf
cd by the peculiar fit uat ion of the inflUutioq, at
the period of his appointment; and ly the diffi
culties occasioned in confluence of the recent ca
lamity in this city ; —a committee of three gtmie
*ncq be appoiuted to prepare a piece of Plate, of a
value n*t exceedingfivehundred doJlars, withfuit
able emblems and devices to be presented to Mr.
Fox, in the name of the Stockholders, a§ an evi
dence of the high sense eh*y entertain of fiis late
official fer vices.
Wiiliam T. Smith, Peter Wiko/F, an J Charles
Bi4dlc, Efqra. were appointed a committer f»r •he
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding reiolution be pub
liihed.
Extra& from the miautes.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairman.
Atfjft—John SITCREA-VES, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow pxtrwng will bp lauded, at
Morris's Wharf, j.uft above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the fchooaer
rickfburg Packet, Captaip Pearce
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
' Do. Do. m boxcifc
Mu feat el do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernels in cases and boxes
Soit fheird almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxe»
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, 9cc.
The whole of the articles (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
For Sakty
Peter Kuhn.
February J df t
Fresh Fruits and Wine.
Edward Dunant,
Mo. 149, South Front-dreec,
Has remaining of the cargo pr Johanna, from
Malaga—
-99 kegs Raisins
£ &.S
ic._< ditto Muscatel do.
15 kegs Figs
10 qr calks fine old C«lemenar Wine
A few pipe»and hoglheads of CcUlonia Wine,
and Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhds and
quarter calks.
He has aJfo for Sale—
A Uy packages «f Madiafs and Calcutta
goods, viz.
Tickery—Humhums „
'Barhar.Handkerchiefs
Black and coloured Taffities and Perfiins
Bandannoes—Choppa Romalls—Pullicot hkf.
Patna Chintz
Likewise a few boxes of Spermaciti Candles,
and bags of JJlaqk Pepper.
Feb. r. , J1
For Sale.
THE Abfcriber olFcrsforfale the property now
occupied by him in (he town of Weft-Cheft«r
and county of Chatter. It Gon&fts of a well finilhed
two fiory Rone h»u&, 43 feet front, by a,bo*t 40
deep, loux rooms on a floor, with cieled garrets,
ana a cefjar un«ier the whole—A very good ftpije
StaWle and Coach houfc—And a lot of Ground,,
three pt fehe* wide, by twenty perches depth.
The boufc Hands on the .Main ftreet;its situation
is high and very haedfome ; the lot extends to a
hack ltree , on which the ituble and coach hcufe
stand. The lot is in a high ftaje of cultivation,
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
which l)as, at no time, bevjn known tt fail.
The fitu-atiou of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country ground it, fertile and
beautiful. «
The terms of payment will made to suit the
pur chafer. They, aj>d the price, will be fettled,
upo« application to Mr. Jonathan Sm th, at no.
149, iouth l'hird-ftreet, Philadelphia, or to
B.QBEJR.T FRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica, landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhdi. and 300 barrels choice Cotfee
98 Hhds of pnme Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
For sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO AUSO atFEAS FC*. »AXt,
500,000 Lb& of Java Coffee
800 Bags do.
Cloves aod Yracc in boxes
A quantity oF Bifpaniola Cocoa
fved PortWinein pipes and Wogiheads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 d2weotm
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City :nd County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of ill sizes, from jdy to tody
Flooring Brads, Sprigs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped I.ogwod
Shoemakers and Sadlcrs Thread
AlTo— Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Itonei, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, flahs, facia, window heaii, tills, c .
All which may he had on rcalculable terms,
Shoes pjade'and. Weaving done at laid Pril'oo at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the paifon, will be attended to.
DacejnW z6 mth6m
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM aN just arrived from England, wants a
place as a >'u/(eor attendant on the sick, either o<t a
Gentleman or Lady.—For fuither information apply
at Nr>. io, South Fourth fireet, near Marine street.
Feb; 6- ft
Far Sale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years old, has afcput eleven years toferve.
She is very capable of taking care of a child,
and undcrltalids boiife work. Enquire at No.
97, rCorth ;fh fit
Ja/!. »». *eod»w
BALL.
Mr. Francis refpe£lfu!!y informs his scholars,
aßd the public in ("eiieral, that hisfonrfh pricl
ifjnjr Ball will' be Ifaitrfitty evening the Bth inft.
« the new AiTetably Room, bouth Fourth
llreet, between Cbu&.ut and Walnut flrect—«
Ladies tickets to be by applying to the
scholars of Mr. Francis, qr at his houfc l}/o. 70
J*lorth Eighth street. Gentlemetv's tickets ona
doilar each, to be had of IKr. Franks, at th»
Academy, or at his houle.
Mr. Francis likcwife inform, the Subfcrifceri
to the SelctJl Bells, ; that the Ult of the prelect
fubferigtion, will be o.a TucftUy the J3th.
Mr. Frai.cis toiit.ihL.es tw mice Scholars a*
usual.
Feb.j. d4t
Canal Office,
February 7, 1797.
AN adjourned meeting' of the Stockholders of
the Delaware and Sc.iuylki.il Canal Naxiga.
tion, .wili be held, at the Company's office on
Friday n?jt, at 7 o'clock, p. 14
GEO. WOURALL, Secretary.
February 7. 3
LosTt—Yefterday in theMafket,
AN ORDEAL drawn by Richard O'Brien,
fa.vqr of Jokn I,arkum» on Mr. Tench Francig v
Purveyor of Public £tuj*pli~s. Whoever ha* found
the fame, i* recjwefted to leive it at Thomas Lar*
Hum's, 28a fouch Front-ftrefct, or at this office.-
"9 ayment being flopped, it can be of bo u&tcsany
one>ut the «waer. % F«.b. 7$ t
tc> Stop the Runaway.
\ JBSCQNWED from his r.iaflcrVeniploy, in the
XI city of Philadelphia, on the sth of fhis its
ftant February, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make j his philiogn my is vacan but no(
difngreeable; his age is supposed to be about 40.
He had on when he went away, a fliort blue cloth
coat, striped caffimere Yell, cordvr«y breeches,
and yarn Itockiiigs of a bloc and white njixtsrrc—
he took with him a blue cloth great eoat, the capo
of which is edged with ycllaw binding ; a long
brown cloth coat j a ftort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape *nd cuffs; alf«, a pair of b!
cloth breeches j the other cloathas he took with
him cannot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he intends going to the cafierti
(h«re of Maryland. Whoever will appreheDd,.and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his Mailer
may get him again, or briug him home, {hall Jwvo
a reward of twentv doii.*rs.
Apply to the Printer.'
February y. 5
Wanted,
An aAive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/td do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and u» other need »p«
ply-—Enqiiire of the Printer.
February 7 5
IN THE PRESS/ ~~
And speedily will be Publi/bed,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein J
IVritten at Sea, in the year I£p4
And now-printed
Mr THE AUTHOR.
H A KAvr would be maintained but to an almost
ufclefs purpefe whick taking the feamcn kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading veflels
would be at unprofitably employed, if they took
all thofefeamen whofeikilland ceurage onboard fliips
of war, give thim protection aftid fecurq
their fafety. We enough for both purposes,
and the cultivating hand of attention alone iswant-»
ing to multiply their number. " Money may buy
•* all naval (lores, except mariners; but, unless a
supply of them is priferved, no wealth will be
" able to procure thcai."
February 7. £
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
PoSor of a Ship to the Eaft-ludies.
Enquire at No. 25 Bo.k Street.
Feb. 6. j, w
CQL U MBIATIOU SE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDCE with much pleas.
ureand rei'pefl, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years reiidence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
School, ihe has made a fupertor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner ef Spruce and Eleventh Street!.
June sth, 1797.
rh« fitwation n perfetfly healthy 1 and made
more agreeable hy an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Canal Lottery-—No. JJ,
WILL commence drawing Monday, the j«th
intt. Tickets for Sale in this Lottsrv at
■?""« bollari, at Wm. BLACKBUrk'j Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Scco*d-ftre«t_l
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at T,i\
I)«liars, where check books are kept ior register.
ing and eitaminging in these, tha City of Wa(hin K
ton, No. ll.and Patttrfon Lotteries, and informa.
tion where tickets maybe had in most ofthe 1 otte.
ries authorised by law in any of the States of th»
Union.
N.B. The business of a Bro*i*, inbuyingan4
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcosnting Bills and Notes of Hand, fal# of
Lands, Hoafes, &c. &r. will be duly attended to,
b T WM. BLACKS CXftNi '
November 15.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sates
For DRY GOODS,
r Forenoon —Edward Fo*, No 5*
Monday} 1 / outh Front-street,
1 Afternoon— Fttotman k Co. No. 61
South Front-street.
P Forenoon—John Coßnetly, Old City
TutJiafX Aiuflion, No. 73Wh l ror.t-ftreet.
y ') Afternooß—tVilliam Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
***> s "*,»
Thursday \ Poreaodo—Edward Fok.
J { Afternoon—Joh<i ConF.elly.
Pride, i Foreiooa—>Vill,am Shannon.
y V Atternoon—John Ooimel!y,
Zaturdsj Afternoon— P«ter Benfon,
[Volume XIII■«—* -t j a i
%\}t oasette. j
—*— ■ '* /
fhiljdblphm, e
TIV-'RSJAY* EVENING, FEBRUARY 8. t 1
SENATE or PENNSYLVANIA. j!
WgcwESDAY.Feb. 7, I 79 8 -
The coraici'.tee fdeaed agreeable to law, to n
try the matter of the petition complain- "
ing of undue election and return of t
Senator, for the diftrift composed of the j
city and cAwnty of Philadelphia, and 1
county of JDelaware, *nd sworn or affir- c
mcd to give a true judgment thereon, j
According to the evidence—
REPORT «
That, agreeable to the duty thus solemn- <
ly imposed on them, they proceeded to <
take the said petition into oonfideration, 1
and examined the evidence adduaed refpeft- 1
fng the fame ; from which it appears that '
so enquiry was made at to the right of ci
tizenship of any person who v«ted at the
Northern Liberties and Southwark in the
county of Philadelphia, whereby a number
of persons were allowed to vote for Sena
tor who were not entitled to eleft mem
bers of the legislature, and that the number
of persons illegally admitted to vote, as
aforefaid, wa» greater than the difference in
votes between the fitting member and the
person next highest in vote, thereby render
ing it impraflicable to ascertain who was
the peifon duly elefted by the qualified
freemen of the said diftrift ; —they do there
fore give it as their judgment, that the
election and return of Israel Israel, as
Senator for the diftrift aforefaid, is illegal
and invalid.
By order of the Committee.
MATTHIAS BARTON, Chairman.
Frtm Toosa's Etsjrs en RiroiuruNS. '
( Concluded from yejlerdafs gazette.)
Neither ought it to be forgotten that it u al
ways dangerous for the common people to in
terfere in matters of this kind. I mean noth
:ng di(honorable to the common people. I
count it no disgrace that 1 am one of them, or
that my father was so before me. But how can
it be supposed, that men, wUo have spent their
iJves at the plough, at th* tooin» or at the nee
dle ; whufe time has been occupied in providing,
by the labour of their hands, a subsistence for
fbemfelves and their families : and who can
fesreeiy, in many iaftances, find leisure
their bibfiett, and to think about the weighty
concerns of an approaching eternity—that such
ttca :>.,uld be qualified to ere£ forms of go
vernment or to manage the affairs of a nation ?
As soon ftWld 1 t» hea* a roan explain
all the phenomeßa of nature who never knew the
£rft principle*mathematics. When the mul
t'tixle are once roused irto fury, they know not
«here to stop, a*d. therefore, after overturn
ing the exiling constitution, tliey could fcarce
iy fail to introduce such violence,, anarchy and
cotifuGoti, as would prove far more intolerable'
than the worfl fort of government
Our v anctjlors were aware «f this. It was
not By forming societies or affcuatibns among
the common people, that our revolution was
brought about. It was not by holding conven
tions in which journeymen tailors, barbers, and
flocking tnakers, fat as deputies chofcn by their
brethren—called themfrlves friends of the pec
pie, rndronfulted together for the good of the
Station •• The wjfeft men in the three kingdoms;
the men, who by their rank in life, had the la.-ft
opportunities of acquir.r.g politifal knowledge,
anrl the greatest degree of iufluence in the ceuii
try, laid their plans among themfclves, and con
certed raeafures without the privity of those in
the 'ewer ranks of life.
All the above ohfervitions (the whole «t Sir
Young's observations "on this head would mike
it too lengthy for a newspaper) are folly con
firmed and illustrated, by the recent example of
our neighbours in France. Their firft national
jflembly, in the year 17?9, was convened with
Come mealure of agre<ablenefs to their ancient
LunJt tuiinas.o hich been fufpen-ied for ages.
Many of them were men of rank, of property,
of learning, and political koowledge._ Had
they been left to the fre<r'exercife of their own
judgements, there is no doubt, but that they
would have given to their country a constitu
tion, whit h night have proved the glory of
France, and a pattern to other nations. But un
fortunate'.y, there were among them, a party
of fadtious and designing men, who formed con
nexions with the populace of Versailles and Pa
ns. And soon, very soon, those beginnings
which had given pleasure to every friend of li- '
Lerty, and of mankind, gave place to the most
gloomy and difallerous appearances. At firft
the comtvon people took un idlive part, other
wise than in choosing their reprefentativee; but
no sooner did the events of the 14th of July
1789, (hew that popular f.vour might be the
road to power, than the fasts culottes began to
think themselves ctpableto manage the affairs of
thena'ion. From that time, the exclamations
of the galleries declared the refolutious of the
affrmbly ; which was then deferred bf its most
virtuous member*. The king was carried a
pri'nner to Paris, where he remained in the
power cf now an organised mob. By this
means a conllitutirn was adopted, which,
though prof/jfcdly designed to have been a lim
ited menirchy, yet aflually gave an opportuni
ty to those who courted the populace, and knew
how to flatter their pafiions, to become >he des
pots of the nation. The second national assem
bly was still more under popidir influence ; and
the ronventlonjnoft of all. i From the time ot
their meeting, all matters were carried by the
votes cf the jacobin clob or by the sovereign
mob of Paris. Then every thing went into
confution Revolutions followed npon the hack
cf revolutions,—(and still continue to this day'
to follow). Five hundred tyrants flarted op
ir.ftead of .one- More blood has been Ihed by
thrir democratic despots, in the ftinrt spa e of
eighteen months, finer the fatal loth of Aug.
179 a, has been (bed by all their kingjto
"■'f ether (if we except the mafTacre of St. Par
tholoir.ew, .i"d which was the work of a sac
tion m. re than of a king) finre the days of
Charles the Great And now libe ty, proper
ty, morality 4 and religion, are all annihilated at
once ; rnd France is become an exrcratien,and
a iijjtng, and a cuff?* all nations !
Frtm the Columbian Centinel.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL 1 EST.
No, 111. -
T'E great principle recognized ia the
cos dilution of this (late, and in that of the
I Tel testes "to fiparate the lsgiflative,
ji jnd executive departments in the
Ovemr.:at," it faadioned by' the history
of ill free republics ; innumerable fafts to j h;
cotinrm this important truth, are exhibited j a
in a convincing light in the defence of the ,c.
American conftitittions writtenjby the learn- I tl
ed and patriotick President ADAMS. In | n
these volumes tlie reader may find ample 1 a
proof, drawn from the experience of all a- : g
ges and in every country,where republics !t!
have existed, thtt a free government caii- si
not be durable utilefs the judicial depart- it
ment is guarded from the encroachments of t
the legislative ; that if the legislative branch c
is not confined to the department of legif- j 1
lation, it will by degrees invade the judi- |
cial and executive departments, whereby ; 1
the checks and balance of powers, will be e
loft, and all authority center in the legifla- (
ture. Hereby the all-important fafeguard t
of the rights, liberties and property of the f
citizens, an appeal to the judicial power
for the iaterpretatioa of the laws, and a 1
trial by a jury, is greatly impaired, if not c
entirely left. The executive power in a t
free government cannot support its conftitu- 1
tional authority, unless the judicial depart. 1
ment retaias all its constitutional powers ; 1
for the legislative being naturally the strong- 1
eft branch of government by reason of <
its numbers, the conftitational force of the t
other branches is neceflary to keep this 1
within its just limit*. Sueh a " balanced i
government," is the only " government of 1
laws, and not of men."—ln such a gov- ]
ernment only, are the right 3of the people 1
preserved, a trial by a jury, and an appeal '
to independent judges to interpret the laws.
, And such is the government of our country, '
by the conjlitut'irm. But is it so in prali'ue f '
The constitution of thisftate declares, that
" the legislative department (hall never cx
ercife the judicial powers." Yet have we '
not seen it exercise those powers every fef- 1
fion ?—lt is also declared in the cenftito- ■
tian, that •« in all controversies concerning •
property, the parties have a right to a trial
by a jury." But, docs not the general
court deny tliis right of appeal to a jury,
to determine the claims of the citizens up
on the govmrawHt ? Are not the dearest
rights of the people hereby violated, and
in a dire A infraftion of another clanfe of
the constitution, which ordains, that " ev
ery citizen ought to find a certain remedy',
by having recourse to the laws ?" Wc have
in a former paper noticed those infractions
of the constitution ; but as they are so de
flruflire to the right* of the people, they
ought to be held up often to their view. It ,
may be alked, " As all the mejnbers of the
. legislature every year take an oath to main
-1 tain the constitution, do they not read it I
1 And if they do, how comes it to pass that
they do not obey it I"
We state thejfadt, aad it is for the peo
. pie to look for the cause, and find a remedy.
Under the old royal government of theprt-
I vine, the general court exercised the dan
gerous power of determining all claims of
ths fubjefts uponjthe government j the wife
| farmers of theprefent constitution, know
| ing well from the history of all nations,
that the Vrights and liberties of the people
i could not be fecufed, uulefs the citizens
r had the nght of appeal in all matters of
• property, as w«ll as life, to a judicial de
: partinent independent of the legislature ;
| ,aad knowing also the natural propensity of
this tlronge/l department to increase its powers
they guarded this most eflejitial right,
- " appeal to the judicial power, and trial by
1 a jury," by clear expressions, and repeated
paragraphs. . They knew the force of long
. cvjlom, and old precedents, and therefore in
the constitution they doubled and trebled
f the guards round this citadel of liberty,
1 the judicial department, and the right of
t the citizens to appeal to it for the interpre
' tation of the laws, and a legal decision up
on their claims, -without exception. Had
j they intended to except claims upon gov
„ ernment, and to invert the legislature with
Y the power of determining them, it would
- have beeu so exprefled ; but it is not.
f The framers of the constitution of the
United States, also apprehending the ex-
treme danger to the rights of the citizens,
. from the interference of the legislative poW
, eis in the states, ordained that they should
- make no laws to " impair the obligation of
1 contrasts;" and consequently atir such laws
* and afts are nullities.—But notwithstanding
| all the wisdom displayed by our wisest ftatef
y men, in framing the conftitutions,and guard
e ing them by requiring an oath of all the le
-0 giflators to " maintain them."—Do we not
f fee a constant effort in fonie of the legifla
» tures to increase their powers (or at least to
£ retain what their predeceflors exercised) by
a infringing those of the judicial department?
e Hence the proposal to alter the constitution
1 of the United States, and take aipaythc right
, of the people to appeal to the supreme judi
cial power to decide upon their legal demands
again (I a state. The adoption of this fatal
? measure will destroy at one stroke the most
_ essential rights which were secured to th? ci
d tizens by the federal constitution; it takes a
it way the great and all important right of
« every citizen to a trial by a jury, to afcer
n tain his legal title to property when it is iu
° the hands of a state ; instead of demanding
r his property, which the laws and a jury
p would give him of right, he is reduced to
y the situation of a Have under the government
if of an absolute monarch, he must put off all
? the dignity of a freeman, and petition, and
s * beg, and male interejl at court, and perhaps
' tribe, to obtain the right secured to him by
' a s law; and after all, if destitute of friends at
r . court, or wanting in the courtly powers of
ir address, he may " dance attendance from
d feflion to fefiion, at the door of the legisla
ture, prayiug their honours for justice," un
til his pockets and his patience are exhausted
and hope fails; he returns home to fpetid the
reft of his days in'poverty and murmurs—
tortured with the idea of fuffying tyranny
io a free government!
ic But, it may be expeftfd that we (hould
ie answer th; obje&ions, to the fnability of a
?, Rate or nation, (as we maintain that the go
ie vernment of Ixjth must be fnable, or the
y rights of the people cannot be secured) it
las been objefted, " that the judgment of j
* court and jury against the government, a
:annot be carried into, execution ;" " that
the fuprcme legiflstare cannot (and ought ]
not) be compelled to pay money, or fulhl 1
jny other sontraft or obligation." The le- '
giflature mult have the power to (letermine 1
the time when the government is able to fill- 1
fil its contracts; and this is power enough 1
in conscience. The judicial department is
to exercise the powrf of determining, ae- 1
cording to Handing laws, what the legal and
just demand of the citizen is.
This, we conceive, is the conftituiiwnal
line, between the ptowers of these two branch
es of government. If this line is-not pre
served, fll power finally, runs into the le
gislature, whereby an arificcraty is Grit e
stablished, and then an nbfolute tyranny. —
The corruption and fall of the ancient as
well as modern republics originated in this
cause. Americans may flatter themselves
that they are too wife to fufTer the like fate;
but if they now permit the most important
right secured to them by the constitution,
trial by ajury, to be taken from them, what
right have we to expeft the long exiftenee
ef freedom?—can any thing be more arbi
trary or absurd, than for the legislature
to appeal to the judicial power to ascertain
its legal demands against the citizens, and at
the fame time not permit the citizens to ap
peal to the fame power to ascertain their
claims? So extreme is the wrong in this ar
bitrary mode of proceeding, that the citi
zen is liable to befued by the government for
one hundred dollars, and thrown into jail
for not paying the debt, when at the fame
time he holds a note from the government
(due many years before the oilier) for three
hundred dollars, which is refufed in payment
of the one hundred! (according to the fund
ing law of 1794.!) If this spawn of ariflo
cracy was seen only in Europe, how would
our Jlate politicians strain their voices in ex
clamations against it; but as it is their own,
they nonrifli it in their bosoms. The Colos
sus of political error mult be destroyed by
the reason of the people, or it will deitroy
their freedom. It is a riany headed mon
ster in a free country, and poisons ]iberty<at
itsfource; it destroys the great principles
in our constitution, trial by a jury, " go
vernment of laws, and not of men;" and
fubjefts the citizens to the fovcrcign will of
an interested legislature, five hundred or a
thousand miles distant; (fee an aft of Geor
gia) it teaches the necessity of adopting the
language and manners of Jlaves, to court the
influential men in the legislature in order to
obtain that justice which the laws of a jury
would give as a right•
Sons of Massachusetts—do justice to your
heads and your hearts, byreducingto prac
tice, thcfr.ee principles of the eonftitution.
before grey-headed errors are too deeply
rooted by * ancient precedents, to admit of
reformatio!). Will not all the experience of
the living and of the dead nations, be Ef
ficient to awaken our attention.
Where are all the free governments that
once existed in different parts of the world;
and what cause produced the universal ruin?
It is clearly proved by all hiftery, that the
principal cause hasbnen—one branch of go
vernment was to© strong for the other de
partments, by which means it engrossed all
the powers, and degenerated into a corrupt.
tyranny.
The judicial power is the central rut, ar
which supports the temple of freedom ; if
it is impaired, liberty fuffers; if removed,
the building falls.' CITIZENS.
LEGISLATURE «f MASSACHUSETTS
SENATE—Jan. 26.
Mr. Treasurer Coffin, bv letter, informed
that he had discovered a box in his office,
containing money and notes of some amount
and which <ie had no previous account of.
Committed to Hon. T. Dawes of Senate
and Messrs. Willis and Devens of the
House ; and they were alfodirefted to con
sider of an adequate grant to T. Davis,"
Efq, late Treasurer, for his services since
he, ageeable to Constitution, left that office
January 27.
A Bill for-the purpofc of lessening the
danger of the canine madmefs, was read
twice. Two dollars tax on each dog, was
ordered by the bill.
HOUSE—Jan. 29.
ConGderable time was occupied in debate
upon the Dog ad, various sums were offer
ed as the m<sll expedient Tax—but no one
was agreed to. It was however voted, that
a Tax, should be laid on Dogs.
NEW-YORK, February 5.
COM MONICA.TION
A member of Congress spit in another's
face 1 And a " patriot,' too ! An aft of
bravery well wortny the knight of the wood
en sword ! A heroic son of Mars this !
There is no making a gentleman of a
clown .! The lubber is made of too coarse
materials ever to be refined up to the stan
dard of a well bred man. If a creature is
a bead, a real brute, you may (have him,
pare his nails, cut off his horns, dress him
in good clothes, and even fend him to Con
gress, and yet ha will still be a beast—he
-will not make bows—he is uneasy in good
company—and evpy where (hows anjincon
querable inclination to get into the woods.
A pretty figure the charafter of the Uni
ted States will make in European papers !
The challenges of former sessions of Con
gress went far enough towards finking our
national reputation ! But the motion to be
excused from waiting on the President, and
the spit in theface buiinefs, will really attach
infamy to our charafter. What ! fay the
Europeans, these Americans are such clown
ifl» fellows that they eleft into the firft pla
ces of government, the indented servants
exported from Europe ! And when in pow
er, they spit in their faces ! Not a bad (lory
this, for the enemies of our government a -
broad ! Even the French, tho' they often
kick up riots in the councils, and sometimes
let a mob in to affaffiuate 1 member or two,
yet they never let ihtn.fel.ves down so low c
as to spit on one another ! '
Well; our patriots, the friends, of the t
people and adherents of Trance, feernto be ]
rifwg faft in public estimation ! What with I
" precious confeffions," free use of public I
money, letters to Mazzei, challenges to .
single combat, spittings in the face, prajefts .
to engage the Britilh court and the wefteru '
Indians to drive off the Spaniards, and o- i
ther figoal and undoubted proofs of patriot
ism, we are in a fair way to Roman great
ness and dignity of national charaftcr ! ! !
HALIFAX, (N. C.) Jan. 22.
PROCLAMATION.
Whereas between the hours of nine and
ten •'clock la it night, the room i n the State
house at. this plc.cc, commonly called the
Comptroller's office, was broken into by j
three villains, and a trunk said to be the j
property of William Tyrrel, containing fun- |
dry papers of said Tyrrel aud others, taken J
and carried off; which said trunk and pa- j
pers had been seized by the direction of the
General Assembly, and deposited in said
office for their fafe keeping,. *nd for the
infpeftion of the* Board of Enquiry; a» the
papers are supposed to contain evidence of
the frauds and forgeries committed in ob
taining military land warrants and grants. —
At the fame time was thrown out of the
window of the said office into the yard, a
large chest o.f fames Glasgow, Esq. filled
with papers appertaining to the Secretary of
State's office, &c. deposited there for the
above purposes; which faidcheft.(an alarm
lying given) the villains had not time to
bear off ot plunder.
A Reward of FIFTY POUNDS cur
rency will be given to any person or persons
who (hall apprehend and secure in any jail
in th's state the perpetrators of the afore
faid burglary and robbery, or (hall discover
them, and give such information as will en
able the magistracy of the state to have them
apprehended.
GIVEN under my hand and* seal at
arms, at Raleigh, the 19th day of
January, A. D. 1798.
SAMUEE ASHE.
By- command,
Roger Moore, Priv. Sec',y-
N. B—7—days before the above burgla
ry was committed, William Tyrrel and
' >■ -Young left Raleigh, and gave out
that they were going to the state of Ten
nessee;, but it is laid that the morning pre
ceding the, robbery, Tyrrel was seen at, or
near Hillfborough, and it was very evident
from the trails, that two horses went off
very precipitately from near the window
where the trunk and chest were thrown, out.
7CONG R E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY— FEBRUARY 7.
Mr. Giles, from Virginia, appeared for
the firft time to day.
The Speaker suggested the pl-opriety of
fending a message to the Senate, informing
them that the Houft of Rreprefentatives
had appointed managers to conduft the im
peachment agaiuit William Blount.
Thequeilion was accordingly put and
carried.
Mr. D. Foftcf, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavouiable report on the
petition of James Soyer, which was con
-1 curred in by the houie.
Mr. Thatcher, from the committee on
poft-ofnees and poll roads, to whom was re
fitted a resolution of the 12th of January,
prApofing that the Attorney General {hould
have the privilege of receiving and fending
letters and packets, free of postage, moved
that that committee have leave to report on
this fubjeft by bill or otherwise.—Agreed.
The order of the day being called for,
Mr. Sitgreaves said, it would be recollect
ed that he had yesterday given notice that
the managers appointed to eondudt the im
peachment against William Blount, would
to-day, .at 12 o'clock, exhibit the said arti
cles before the Senate. As thawime was
near at hand, and as it was usual on all fol
emti occasions like this for the house to give
fanftion to its managers by an attendance at
the time, he thought it would be better
that the house fhooldnot resolve itfelf into a
committee of the whole, until this business
was done. It might be expefted a message
would shortly be received from the Senate
oa the fubjeft.
After some coriverfation on the fubjeft, it
was resolved to go on with the order of the
day, until the message from the Senate
(hould be received.
The House accordingly again resolved it
felf into a committee of the whole on the
report of the committee of privileges, Mr.
Dent in the chair; when,
Mr. Dana rose and complained that the
printers, notwlthftanding the prohibition of
the Speaker of yellerday, continued to re
port the evidence delivered before the com
mittee, before it was correfted by the mem
ber* themselves. He said it had been repre
feated that he had said, the only cause of
heat betwixt him and Mr. Lyon, had been
the amendment of the gentleman from Vir
ginia 011 the question refpefting Foreign In
tercourse; whereas he had Hated there was
other conversation which tended to irritate
him, though, it was true, he did not fay
.what the conversation was. He would now
however state some of the particulars. Mr.
■ D. was proceeding, when it was proposed
that what the member had to add to his evi
dence (hould be delivered to the committee
1 in writing.
Immediately after this proposition was
■ made, a message was announced from the
Senate, informing the house that the Sen
-1 ate would be ready to receive the articles of
■ impeachment agaiaft William Blount, at
' twelve o'clock.
That hour being neat at hand, the com
-1 mittee rose, and the house adjourned foj
1 half an hour.
, The managers of the impeachment, ac
compamed by the mem! • of th'fe"
house accordingly went lip to tlir Senate for
the pnrpofe of exhibiting the articles of itrn
peachment against William Blount; whe*,
being introduced, Mr. Sitgreavea made
known their million by an address to the
Prcfident of the Senate; after which, the
President having, said the Senate were tezAj
to receive the articles of impeachment; and
the Serjeant at aims having proclaimed ftN
ence, the other managers havingtaken tWeir
feats appointed.them, Mr. Sitgreaves pro
ceeded to read the article's of impeachment;
which having finilhed, the President of the
Senate returned for answer, words to the
following effeft:
" Gentlemen, managers on the part of
the house of Representatives, the Senate
will take such order on the articles of im
peachment which you have exhibited before
them, as ftiall seem to them proper, of
which due notice will be given to the hotife
of Reprtfentati-ves."
Upon which_the managers and members
retired.
The house of Representatives then resum
ed their meeting; when Mr.T.Claibornein
troduced a motionfor providingtheSenatorfc
who should if any tfm9 attend the debates
of the house, feat 3 on the right and left of
the fj;eaker. After some few observations
this motion was postponed till the 3d of
March, 1799.
The Speaker laid beforethe house a com
munication from the Treasury Dtpjrtment,
iucloftng a report and sundry flatements of
expenditures in the military and naval de
partments, in consequence of three refols
tionsof 3d of March f 797, which were or
dered to be printed ; those which bad rela
tion to the naval department were referred
to the «ommittecappointed to esquire into
the expenditure of money in that depart
ment ; and those which related to the mili
tary eftaUifhment were referred to the com
mittee of varys and means.
The house then again resolved itfelf into
a committee qf the whole 011 the report of
the committee of privileges ;-when Mr.
Varnum was called upon to gfve his tefti
uiony.
To attempt to fpllow the course of this
examination would prove an unprofitable la
bour ; it would fill our paper to "no good
purpose", finee the preceedings upon it were
very tedious and irregular,
and the evidence itfelf unimportant ; as it
went only to prove that Mr. Lyon had told
Mr. Varnum soon after the affray happen
ed betwixt him and Mr. Grifvvold, that he
had been provoked to the aft which he had
committed by Mr. Grifwald's having twice .
repeated the sarcasm of the IVooden Sword
—a circumstance on whigh there seemed to
be little or no doubt iu the minds.of any of
the committee.
The evidence "of Mr. Varnurn being gone
through, and Mr- Van Cortlandt havmg
been sworn, th< chairman desired to know
if any other evidence was intended to be.
called ; if it was, it would be well to have
. the gentlemen named whilst the Judge of
the Diftrift Court was pvefent.
Mr. Lyon said, if ai>y gentleman of the
'committee were prtfornt at the conversation
which palled betwixt him and the Speaker,
he should wish them them to be sworn.
1 He believed Mr. Harper and Mr. Cochran
„ were present.
Mr. Stanford said he also was present;
The oath was in consequence.administer
ed to Meflrs. Harper, Cochran and Stan
ford.
The committee rose and had, leave to fit
ag-in.
-■' Adjourned. ...
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 7. \
Died, onthe sth inft. Madame Deffour
ces, the amiable consort of col. 'Deffources,
of St. Domingo. Her lemains, largely at
tended, have been deposited in the Roman
i Catholic church yard.
; At a meeting of the society fbr the relief of
the distressed prlfoners, held at the Dis
pensary, on Monday, the sth Feb.
The Prcfident reported, that a person
• who did Bot wifli to have his name mention
ed, has prefeflted him with thirty dollar*
for the benefit of the society, and Leonard
Bleecker reported that he had receivedfrvin
dollars and fifty cents from Jonathan Little
iM behalf of funda'y jurors.
Jamet Bleeder, Sec.
ALBANY, February 2.
COMMUNICATIONS.
" Under the* Bankrupt Law of England
the person ,of a debtor is liberated ou the
surrender of his .whole property far the be
nefit of his creditors, even without the con
sent of the creditor, except in cafe of fraud
which is punished as a criminal offence.
Even in the mod despotic countries of Eu»
rope this maxim is uirivcrfally adopted—"
that the creditor has a right to the proper
ty of the debtor—the state to his perfurial
services." Many are,-and are liable to be,
1 imprisoned for debt 3 doe to British merch
ants. Is it not absurd that foreigners uu
. dera monarchical government, should eaercife
: a power over the personal liberty of tbc
people of this which they are preclu
ded from doing over that of their fellow
■ fubje'ls, by the laws of theirpwn country i
Is it not a reproach to us, as a free people,
1 that the maxims & cdiftsof monarchical and
. even despotic governments should, in this in
: stance be more favorable to personal liberty
(the molt ineflimable of human bieflings)
1 than those of onr boallcd -republican infti
: tutions ? How shall monarchical and republi
■ jcan governments, in this pefpeft, stand a
f, comparison I" -
In Mr. Nicholas's Speeeh in the Nation
- al House of Representatives, 00 the bill
£ providing the means of foreign iotercourfe,
| the reader will observe much doleful declama
• I tion about executive patronage, arid ilrtneeeffity of t]he in.terpofition or a virtuous
minority to check the abuses of Prelidetstul !
power. That clafsof (ham advocates faf ti.e
public weal to which citizen Nicholas,(a
member from the goodly bait: of Virginia)
belongs, are very ailiduous to throw obsta
cles in the way of the exercise oF all power,
because they themselves cannot have the di
reftioin'of it. Long may the period be wit
ueffeji which (hall leave citizens Nicholas
and £0 in the back ground, as refpefts the
management of the political concerns of this
uoua&y. In the spirited reply of Mr. Allen
-the dllorgatiizers have their due—What
they would be at, is plainly pointed out—
their views and o'ojefts depicted in the lan
guage which the crifls renders necessary to
fee used. The able and excellent Speech
of Mr. N- Smith, is worthy the moll atten
dee pernfal. He defines with accuracy the
constitutional powersof the different branch
es of government—(hews the propriety on
the part of the Executive of appointing
only those to office whose principles lead
ihtm to give their fupportta the measures
of Adminiftratioa —and he points out the
gross ablurdity of giving countenance to
men of a contrary description, in his well
timed reference to the conduft of" precious
torftjjing " Randolph, and the Gallo-Ame
rican plenipo. citizen Monroe. Such
.charaifttfrs as Mr. Smith deserve the meed
of their country's highest approbation.
Nothing can be more ridiculous and ab
surd than Mr. Nicholas's exclamation a
gainst the fupperters and friends of govern
ment, that is " they will divide the country
into parties, it is a business of their own."
Those who are continually endeavouring to
enliil partisans usder the banner ps oppo-
Stion to the measures of Government, talk
bf dividing the country into parties as a
plan originating with charafters whose uni
fbrtn endeavour h has been, and still is, to
promote the greatest unanimity, in our pub
lic counsels —but in whose paths a restless
and turbulent class of individuals are perpe
tually attempting to throw Rumbling
blocks.
®a?mer~
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY S.
Samuel M. Fox, Esq. was tmanimouf
ly defied President of the Bank of Penn-
on Tuesday last.
His excellency Robert Liston, esq.
has returned to the city, from a tour to the
Southward.
Married, last evening, by the Rev. Mr.
Abcrerombie, Mr. Peter Wijcoff, junr.
to Miss Ann Tharp, both of this city.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in Maf
facbufetts,• to his friend in this city.
"You, iuquire if I am ready to submit
to the fraternal embraces of the French.—
I confefj I have no wish for she conne&ion
which that phrase now seems to import, the
disorder whiclj their fond preflures commu
nicate is likely to be as injurious to the hap
piness of whole nations, as that which the
French have formerly given a name, was to
the health of individuals, and I think the
political sentiments bf our ccuntrywen, if
they Wtmtarily take the present disorder,
are quite as corrupt, as the moral; of those
who have been infe£ted with its predecefibr.
I hope that my friends in Congress will be
esrmpt from both' distempers." .
Outline of a pr-ojeK now on foot amongst
certain partisans of Indecency, in the coun
cil of IOQ for instituting a new order of
Knighthood. _
*i. This order takes the denomination of,
" Knights of the Wooden Siiord."
2. Every member of the order to be girt 1
with a superb dagger of lath, bearing this
motto " Cave bomi I'm."
Every knight on his ioveftiture with this
weapon, is understood to be endowed with
the privilege of spitting upon any man who
(hall on any occallon us» the expreflions
4 ! burningfhainc," " wooden sword," "hic
cory club," " neat's leather',*' or " tobacco
lpft'tte."
3. Thefeat«f honoristobefowellgaarded
with plates of Iron, that the toughed foal
leather er the mod adlive foot (hall make"no
sensible impreflion. thereon.
4. The armorial bearings of the order are
to be Lion rampant, girt with the wood
en sword of the order, in the aft of spitting
on all around him.
Mott<?, " Nemo me infpumatus lacejfit."
For the Gazette of (he United States.
ON MR. LTON's CASE.
THE proceedings of Congress,
to the expnlfion of Malt-hew Lyon, mutt
wound .every American to the heart. It
was with reverence that I had beheld what
ever was doing in the house of reprefenta
tivee. I had hoptd that America would
have been an example to nations in the
praftice of government, and that her delib
erative. councils would have remained mo
dels of decency and propriety. I mourn
over the disgrace that the vile aftion of this
unworthy member has fixed, indelibly fixed,
ob our national chara£ter. I perceive with
inexprefTible anguish the power of party
fpirit in the procedure of the house, which
already seems to have taken hold of the
cafe, exclusive of all other considerations,
(If on this occalion, good sense and good
temper do not get the better of psrty-feel
ifip, it my be eocfidered as certain they
wilt not oil any other which can occur dur
ing the present felTion.
Th«t one member should fpifrfn the face
«f another during die fitting of the house,
it an aft so vile, so b?f?, so abominable, so
v.orfe than brMtal, that our language can-
not aptly dcfiribe it. No words of prdvo- \
cation can excuse it. " Even if th. ii; flag- ■:
greilion .had proceeded from the Cbfinefti- i
cut member, which was not faft, th; 1
indignity to him arid to the lioufe is too
detestable to admit of any other punilhment i
but expulion. The firft aggression came i
from M. Lyon, when he that the Con- ;
nefticttt members with deceiving their con
{lituents, and afting from fdfifh motives, ,
contrary to their known opinions. It it be
said this was in jest, there is the fame rea
son for faying that the name of the Woodeu
sword wa» in jest also ; but furelv the salu
tation in the face was not meant as a joke.
If the parties were in jsll, previous to this
detestable aftion, it is the more aggravated :
If they were in earned, thro Mr. Lyon was
the original aggrelTor ; f> thst in every
point of view, he Hands without exeufe.—
But even if words of "provocation had been
firft uttered to him, they ought not to have
been resented in a manner to mean and con.
temptible. For the Honor of our country,
and for the dignity of the House of Repre
sentatives, let him be expelled. It is the
only punifhmeut faited to the! offence that
is in the power of the House, and unfortu
nately it is inadequate.
If he is not expelled, party spirit, blind,
obstinate, inveterate party-spirit, will alone
be the canfe ; and they who shall vote a
gainst his cxptilfion, will attach to them
selves a part of the fiiame of the original j
aft. The will abet and countenance the •
vile aftion, and in public sentiment ought j
and will share the ignominy—They will be 1
stigmatised as the friends of disorder. I
trull there will not fee such men found in •
the bouse, who (hall by their votes keep
him among them. If any such there fnall
be, lit them be branded with infamy, let
them be excluded from civilized society, let
them be shunned as barbarians, let them be
the fcotn of mankind, let a mark be put
upon them as unworthy of public employ
ment, but let riot even such men be /pit upon.
It is provided excellent constitu
tion. that " each house may determine the
rules of its proceedings, punilh its members
for disorderly behavior, and with the con
currence of two thirds expel a member. In
the inflance of Mr. Lyon the -house is a
boi>t to determine an important question,
w&ether a member ought to be expelled in
any cafe whatever for disorderly behavior.
Certainly if any cafe can exist when ttxpul
fion ought to be the punifliment, the pres
ent is one. If in this cafe erpulfion is not
to be inflifted, I beg it may bo seriously
considered, whether in any cafe whatever it
ought. Let a cafe be imagined, if pofli
ble, where expulfien should be inflifted, if
it ii omitted in this. What then will be
the consequence if Mr. Lyon is not expellr.
Ed ? The house will fix a precedent that
nullifies this provision of the constitution,
that makes it a dead letter, and e&ablifties
that in no cafe for disorderly behavior
ought a member to be expelled. Before fe>
pernicious a. precedent is set, I hope the
consequences will be seriously examined and
weighed by those to whom are committed
the dearest rights of society.
FE-NELON.
The Schooner Kitty, Green, from hence
to Cape Francois, was captured on the 17th
'Dec. by the Thnndcier man of War, and
f?nt into the Mole.
The fliip George, Wait, of Portland,
from hence to Cadiz, is condemned, veflel
and cargo, at Algtfiras, .for want of role
d'equipage.
A-fnip (name unknown) was seen (land
ing ißto the Capes on Tuesday.
The outyvard vefl'els were at Reedy ISand
yesterday.
For the Gazelle of the United States.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, Feb. 3.' 1798.
Six Fer Cent. 16fi
Three per Cunt. iof%
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/9
BANK United States, 20
Pennfylvania, it fer cert.
North America, 50 per cent.
lufurance Co. Pennsylvania, 20
—N. A. (hares 41 dividend off.
LONDON, Nov. 18.
THE BANK.
The (ommittee of Secrecy appointed to enquire
•whether it may be expedient further to contin
ue the Rejiridion contained in two Slcls
made in the lafl Se/Jion of Parliament, refpee
ing payment in cajh by the bank, have enquired
accordingly, and agreed upon the follo wing
Report, viz.
Your committee have in the firft place ex
amined the total amount of otit-ftanding de
mands on the Bank of England, and of the
funds for discharging the fame, and find
from the examination of the governor and
deputy governor of the Bank, and the doc
uments produced by them, jthat the total
amouut of outstanding demands on.the bank
was on the I ith day of thisinft.i 7,578,9101.
and that the total amount of the funds for
discharging the fame (without including the
permanent debt due from government of
i 1,686,8001. which bears an interest of 3
per cent.) was on the fame day 21,418,4601.
leaving a balance or surplus in favour of the
bank (excltsfive of the above mentioned
debt from Government) of 31839,5501.
Your committee next proceeded to exam
ine the principal articles of which- the a
bove mentioned sum of 21,418,4601.
• the credit fide of the account, is made up
with a view of ascertaining how far the bank
might be enabled to resume its accustomed
payments in cash, in cafe the reftriftion at
prefect subsisting (huuld be removed.—And
your committee find, that the advances to
government have on the one hand, been so
,-nuch reduced finte the 25th of Febiuary
last,. as'to amount on the said 1 lth of this
inft. to no more thrn the sum of 4,358,1401.
while on the orhcr hand, the cash and hul
-1 lion in the bank have increased toan4imoiint
Here than .five timei the value of that at
\vh;t
Nvfiith they ftojJ on tlie fame 2 Jtbl of Feb
-rdary iaft, arid ipuch above that at wnie'ti
they fiave fldod at any time firicc the begin
wing of September, 1 795!
Your committee further'find, that the
course of exchange with Hamourg is at pre
f<nt unuftially favourable to this country**
and that from the situation of our trade,
there is good reason to imiagine it will so
continue, unless,. political - circumstances
should occur to afFeft it.
Your committee next preceeding to »*s
miiie the governor and deputy-governor of
the ba;ik, as to their opinion of the" incon
veriences which may have arisen from the
reftrl&frm imposed on the bank for making
payment in cash, and for the expediency of
continuing fueh reftn'&ion: i* your commit
tee find that they arc not aware of any such
inconvenience, and that they are supported
in that idea by knowing that the bankers
and traders of London, who had a right by
the a&s of Parliament to demand three
fourths of any deposit in cash which they
had made in the bank of 500!. or upwards
have, only claimed about one-sixteenth.-
And your committee find that the court of
dire&ors of the bank did on the 26th of
Oftofcer, 1797, come to refolutioH, a copy
of which is lubjoined to this report.
Your committer having further examined
the governor and deputy-gove inlor, as to~
what may be meant by the political circum
stances mentioned in tlißt resolution, find,
' that they understand by them the state of
j hoftilityin which the nation is fliH involved
i and particularly such appreheiifrons as may
' be entertained of invasion" either in Ireland
; or this country ; together with the poSi'bi
lity there may be of advances being to be
madu from this country to Ireland ; and
that from those circumstances so explained,
and from the nature of the war, and the
avowed purpose of the enemy to attack
this country by means of it's pnbile credit,
and to' distress it in its financial operations,
they are led to think that it will he expedi
ent to continue the reftri£lion now subsisting,
with the refervs for partial iffues'of cash, at
the discretion of the bank, of the nature of
that contained in theprefent ails : and
it may be so continued without injury to the
credit of the bank, and with advantage to
the nation.
Your committee therefore having taken
into confederation the general situation of
country, are of opinion, that uotwithfland
. ing the affairs of the bank, both with refpeA
to the general balance of its accounts, and
its capacity of making payments in specie,
are in such a state that it mjght with fafety
refuriWts accuflomed fun&ion3 under a dif
ferent state of public affairs, yet, that it
will be 'expedient to continue the reftrifli
ons now subsisting on such payments, for
such time, and under such limitations, as
to the wisdom of Parliament r*ay seem fit.
Copy of a Resolution. of the Court of DiriSort
of the Batik.
At a Court of Direftors at' the Bauk, on
Thursday, 26th o£t. 1-797.
Refolded, That it i» the opinion of this
Court, that Hhe Governor and Company
of the Bank of England, a're enabled to
tffue specie in any manner that maybe deem
ed necessary for the accommodation of the
public and the Court have no helitation to
declare, that the affairs Oi the Bank are in
such a state, that it can with fafety resume
its accuflomed funftions, if the political
eiretimftances of the country cjo not render
it inexpedient : But the DireSors deeming
it foreign td their province to judge of these
points, wish to submit to the wifdons of
Parliament, whether, as it has ones been
judged proper, to lay a on the
payments-os the Bank in cash, it may or
may not be prudent to continue the fame.
THE BANK MEOTJN.G.
Yesterday a eourt of the proprietors was
held at the bank, and we have particular fa
tisfacHon in annouueingthe proceedings that
pafTed.
Mr. Raikes, the chairmaii, acquainted
. 'the proprietors, that he and the deputy go
vernor had had an interview onthe preced
ing (J-y with Mr. Pitt, and had also depos
ited with the secret committee of the house
of commons, a statement of the affairs of
the Bank, which he ihould also lay before
the proprietors.
Mr. Raikes then informed the court, thai
the miniftev had proposed to extend the far
ther limitation of the tinje when the bank
fhouli resume its payments in fpipcie;, that it
was not necessary for him to judge of the
r urgency of political motives, which might
render such a step advisable ; but he had the
pleasure to inform the court, that the bank
was in such * state of afHuence, as to be
ready to pay all the demands off it in specie,
whenever called upon. '' ' '
The content of the Proprietors was then
asked for advancing the amount of the Land
and. Malt Tax to Government} amounting
! to 2,75,0001. which%v»s ynanimoufly agreed 1
to. •
The btifinefs or the mesting being being
over, Mr. Hoare represented to the Direct
ors, the great inconvenience afifirtg from the
. prifent ffcareity of silver, and was informed
that a coinage was in agitation.
The meeting then adjoutned higbly fan's,
fied £t the communication made by the
' chairman. «
1 ,i ■ ■
Juit Publiflied,
And to he had at the Book-stores of McfTr*. Dob
son, Camfbfli, Youno and (>rwrod,
in Philadelphia, > *
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules And Cure, of Remitting or Billious
I Fevers.
To tvl.cb is BArreJ)
1 AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ice of
different authors : and an*APPENDIX, nchib
' iting intcrcfling {*&* and refle&ion* relative td*
> the SymctLui Icimmidtr, or Yellow Fever, which
h*s orcaGoned so much diftreft and mortality,
. at different periods, in of the seaport
towns of the I 'nited States of Americv,
by WILUAM CURRIE#
Fcilew of the Rhilkdslphta College of * hyfjeianr,
- » and Member of ike Americjn Phito:oph?C/il Sc
t ciwt 7. Feb. *
NEW-THEATR'-.
FRIDAY EVENING,
FSBRHARY g.
Will be presented, a celebrated TRAGEDY,
called
Alexander "the Great ;
Or.TllH KIV.VL Qili'ENS
Alexander, Mr Fcrpc'l
(being }ila Hi 11 appearance in tlist cKir^flerl
HepKefl.nn VVarret'i jun.
I.yfimachoi, Hirdtft^e
CafTsr.der Fox.
Polvperclion, Taylor
P iiip, Hunt;r
Clyiui, \Va."re>i
TlheifJttS, Warreil
1 1'erJiCi., Fliflett
Eumenes, T. Warjell
rflive, Matthe"»
Koxana (£rit time here) Mrs. Merry
Mrs L'Etbange
Parifitia,- Mis* L'ETVranjjt
Statira, Mr?. MsrValf
Ir, Afi 11. The Grand Triurnphai Entry of A-
Icxander into Ba'pylon ;
The voral pnrti by Mtflis. Mar(l;aH, Dar!ey,
Warrcll. Warrell, jun- and Lavt«»v—Mrs
Oldm'xqß, Mrs Warrell, Mils Milbourne,
Miss Aniletfon. Sc. &c.
To which will be adiltd, a COMIC CPERA,
called
The Poor Soldier.
r, . . —• C with the favourite Huntine
r 1 *" 1 Fllzr, y' i Song ot'theTwiiuof Latona,
Mr Darley
Father Luke, Wan cn
Dermot, (firfttime) Fox
Patrick, Ha dinge
Darby, (flrH time'on this Bernard
Bagatelle,(with a long in chaiacty) M.ir(hall •
Bo;', Mr.fter Vji reii
r oral), Mrs Warrell
Kathleen, Mrs Oldni ixon
Boi, one fiollan; Pit, quarter* of a Dol
lar ; anil Gallery, haif a Dollar.
The tloors of the Theatre will open at five,
a the curtain rife precifrly at fn o'elotk.
Places Icr the Boxe~ to he taken ar the Office !n
the froDt of the Theatre, from 10 till s o'clock,
and from 16 till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rict'sfeook-ftpre,
No. 50 Market-ftreit, an-i at the Office a-ljoiniikg
h | i heare. yiVJT RZSPURUC.I !
FOR SALE,
BY TH! stiBSCRIBEKs, No. 21, Penn-ftrcef,
The Cargo of ibe Ship Ganges,
John Greeu, commander, from Bengal,
Cttfijiing if
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffees Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cl.sth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Maraoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkft.
Ginghams Mulmui de.
Guzzenas ? Bandannoes
Gurrah* Siflerfoy
Piniafcoos ; Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romtls Persians of various coul,
Meek Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
9«,c00 lb. PEPFfcK.
Willirtgs £ff Francit.
The Piece Goods . -
Of th 4 Ganges are now open to sale at thai
commodioui flore the north weft corner of ibt
Market and Fourth-ftreer.
Also—A few Bales cf Madrafs Hhkfs. ®f tie
gam patten.s andbeft colours.
February S. <Uf .
xN THE PRESS, "
AND JPEIDiLY * ILL BE FUBLISHLD,
Refle£tions on Monroe's View
[cf rHi COHDIiCT OF TES II fffW,
Aspwbliflied in the
GAZ.EJ tEffuIi.UMTEO STATES,
Under the figjiatur* of
SCIPIO,
In which tf ecommercial warfare of France
is trafed to the French /aflion in this country
as its I'o.nrce, and the motive? of the oppoStioi;
t»tbe meafuies of the United States pre expoftd
Feb. t. ' '
just receTvedT"
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfnnt ami Second fire.ts,
Causes qui fe font cppofecs aux
Progres da commerce, entre LA. FKANCEet lei
ETATS-UNIS de L'AMF.RIQttE.
Avee les Moyens de l'accclerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Nationale
de de la France, and tie:
ET ATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addressees a Monfieurlc Mar.
quis de la Fayette. Tradnit fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancici;
Membre de la Legislature dela Republiqui
du MaflachufTet.
Le Commerce ell la portion la plus importante de
(RichefTea Nationales
—rLeTridentde Neptune, eft le fceptredu Monde
Limiirk
Or causes tliat have been opposed to the
PROGRESS of ( OMMERC'E botween
FRANC I and the UNITED STATZS of AMERICA
Witn the mean* of accelerating it ;
And a comparison of the National Debt:
" Cf tLnglami, France, and America.
In six letters, directed to the Marquii
de la Fayette.
Translated (into l ruich i>otn the original Bug
li(h ol Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber u>i the Legislature of Muflacbufetts.
Commerce i» the most important portion of th<
Wealth of Natiom.
1 he Trident of Neptune U the Sceptre o
the world. I.emiers.
AT a juncture when the qiieftion o:
a Commercial Treaty tviib France may fooi
become an objcil of difcuHion, a work of this kinc
becomes extremely ufefut to those fitiz> j ns of thi
'United States, who may be defirons to enable rhem
felTcs to view thi< fuhjc<s, under it« various af
pedi ; and they will have the fatisfadiion to bi
furnifhed with the n;ctlTary data, to judge of th<
ufelulnefs of this, tranfadion.
This work it principally by th<
riehncfo of the obfer?a'ion«, rht ptrfpieuity of ths
ideas, and the modesty of the theory which u
contains. Par», a man of wit oßlfrvtd, thai
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, hctpe 1 up
to the very roof with iferol produce. It is addrtf
fed so the unfertunate La Favitti, in letters
which so m, the authcr who could on!)
dtvofea few weeks ro this occupation, was obligee
to adopt. At thou) ft circumllaiiCxs ate iii man)
refpedls different nt the prefeof day, from wHn
tKfcy were iir the year 179", when these letteri
w«ie written, y-t it rrsyhe jaftly laid,th#fo ma-
By p«i'aiaa«t caU ftitt retrain, foal
the i'j.iivious feaJcr will no; appreciate t\z \vor«<
icis on tint a:ccunf ; on contrary, as mnsy c£
'tu» a!t.nt:ori-s which havs b?tfn mi*s. irz tht f#-
:uit oi the au:hcr** tertlarlu, it will f£r*e w c*U
"viurc hi;n ti-.Lr m all triofc&ioiat, bstv.-sea fi'.a
:ia;.jp£, cv.?ry t'.;:\i> miy le <.\c«3aJ IfoA th* i.'«
forticf truth -jiJ ioc.
LET] ER I. »
GviAtal vi.nv of th-? f>t>:iacle.- ( created in ]fcr*i]cs t
to pzetciic tho, ?Veni:s:i c.| commerce, wtfh thfc k
Liii ei int 9 —Obfrrvatie.ifi made in a touf, tiirß
u»r that ejorc:f> purp »fa, uptfhfome French
USl*t< 9(a yrfc-Oui' fregifunt this). Examiautictt
and jL'taracicc cf the prejudices ;xilting i&Fraaft,
ajpinft the quality ofccrtavn predu&ions Cf tbt
United States, atu against the advantages of tlieif
importation—Demomlratijn of th* bal policy cf
l.iyi.ij duties oa th :ir importation, principally CO
jr' vrfiom in j;cr,er'l and on fall prov'iliocs, and
tifh ii; p.vticular—Ct-nfidcratiMU onilie regukiltii
of the l-'rer.cicufom-houfes.
i LETTER IT.
I Ohllsclcs to the sxtenfion of'trad* with France,
| fiocrcding from circumfiaocea and individuJs jh
t!.e LY'kod tha thef«o!iftacl«» are
[ only ternpor-jry and will be rasiorcd (tjuy hav«
bc-'n r.moved) by time and the wifjomof povctu
nier.t —Hi/lory of the influence of the American
paper money—-Important j rinciples and abft&A
eonfiderariona on money and circulation—Caufoa
of the l'i.Agnation cf American trade, after the.
peace—Cricical examination of French. .oods, im
ported into America, find extraordinary condvwft
of the 'French merchants—Efiefls of good com.
mercial laws; »"d patriotic wi!he>on this I'ubjeJt—
OLkrvstiokis on mont-y. weights and
LETTER HI.
Essay in the form . f a tableau, to appiaife the im
molations into the Uuited Sia trance and £*£•
had unted The author examines at each article,
wlitthei it can be better fuiHiOtcd fiom France or
England— It it i.iincipallv on this fu!>jccf (which
have allonidied a me e throriff} tb»t tbeauthoc
aoptari tn ev-nte jjreat commercial experience These
kin of tMdin*, uu'u> kily as • iScult to obtain as
tbey are n>u. h lo be delired, ate the only sure guide*
ih-: Itaitl'iitau can i?*e fft'r th policy of Lr.dici de
prived of wi.ich he is continually deceiving or
v Wee nrtoi too much aJmire ilie apparent ex*
a&nefa of colo- el Swim's calcu' ition, ; and al'hi'Ujh
the propbc fit's <if L-.ird Sheffield have already been
comradifU'd by txpei irnce, and by several able pens,
yji it iscu-iom t« Ice the author of the prelenr work,
difnute with him the oirly grnii'd on which ne has
nor-been hitherto attacked, by pro» ng that F'unce,
under the recjui cri c™di io*>, will hi; better able
than G'eat Brrtainto fu;>ply us with several articles,
which the Kn'^li.lh wtiji allots exclulively and forev
er to tl.e letter; the author's partiality ajfifl on (if he
has anv) dors .'Hot appear trj have at any time created
a partiality of'jucigmtnt Ihe result of this calculation
is that in 1789, u at is to Oty, >ta period when arta
and manufaftjres did tot prefenli in France the
means and probabi'i y of cxtenGftn which they now
polTrfs. that even iu 1789, ft -was prefumabie, that
Fiance would not only have the means 10 supply.one
half of anv Riven cuanti. y of the of Franct
find ■ ngland united, but ajfo l» enter into competition
with Greattiritain for the remainder, in ptoportion
io the of her govirnaient,"and the industry
of her inhabitants "
LETTER, IV: "
Calculasion of the exportation# oF the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness 19 .
Fiance'; this is'od* realon why, notwutfltand'tng tlte
excellent work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. S.van's ta
bleau is by no means fupeifluous . the principle of tile
advantages which would result tq France from the.
importation ci
where applied and 't 1) upon this argument, that
tbe author eftablifltes his dofncnds to the French go.
. vernment, for the' litaited admiflion of the praduc.
! tiOns of bis country into Fraoct.
' : LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of tbe Unitad. States at tlac
J time—Opinions of tbe author on the finances, on th*
I effects of nations! debt, on circulation, itc..as moro
| p.mpty deti'iied in hia National Arithmetic priatedae
1 Boflon in the year. 1786 ; the whole calculated t»
ftrmgthen in Fraqce, the public, and private credit
jof «he Ouifed Ssatea—the happy Am'sriia
iw.'fbd the ihtfti'ift iiifing fnnt the public debt in
turope, are tontnSed in.th« ablellmanner, and oti
dei tne maft,llrikinj telavisns, by very cu ioua cal
culations—Observations 00 the wisdom and economy
which p-efide over the public expeafes m Maffjchlic.
setts. In this plsce the patriotism of the author ap
pears, with all tt)e elevation wh'.ch aj'ift national
prtdr inlpirea. Thrancirnt governments ol Europe,
lays he, will learn from ua the art ol econotnv in
recompenfiiijj *he t«-ivjces which Ine cocmtrv receives;
Among ft us it urili ie fit*, thai men are choje<l forpioai,
and nit pacts for men. Tn » letter comm.is will *
general viiw ol Hie [-üb:u property, deiidi ed inths
hands of the gover ment of the United States
IIL I TER VI ■
General exanii iii 1.1 <.f ihe dclc&t of <he eomtner.
cial pxlicy of France with refpeft to the United States;
man) ot thele obfer.ations have produced the !f £t,
fjr whieh they were intended, others liill remain
pointing out the reforms 'to/be made in future, >1«
j;ood chart msrksihe (hoats and rocka. The author
concludes his wotk, by fixing his attention on hia
, country, and the great mm who have icrdcred it il
| luftrious and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
1 f>vsof the prelent chief ol our *overiiment. 'fa
I praise a man when'he e ercifes a dilt'.iguilhed em.
ployment. is common, and may be taken for flattery •
! b rt whtift he is iu private life, it is tbe homage of
' Hncerity. .
Note, page 3,6 of the work,
* Les habtians des ttats-unis, fuivant dans l»ur
choix le bien public, * txcites par un principe de
reeonnoifTjr ce, rhoifirent M. John Adams pour vice
prr(id<ot du corn-re.. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues forniecs par le gouv
friiemcnt Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendireot trei
fulpcil a ceux qui eioi.-nt .en pouvoir.' Le peuple,
convaincu de son mciite, le choifit pour un de fe»
■ eprefentans dans le prew'er congres. De ce nombre
etoii aufli M Samuel Aaamj, patriote audi intrepide
qu'inta igable I.a revoUtnn Americaine doit beau
coup a la perleverance de fes travau*, ic a sea talena
riifttuges. 'Ceux que M. John Adams a developpea
dans le ttaire de paix, qui s'eil fait a Paris en 178U
ontp-ouve qu'il etnit minillre auifi habile qu«graj>4
p« i ique. ht cans l'on ouvrage fur !a dtfeafe de' la
conllr.ution Americaine, il a mnntae toutes leacait
noiffjnees qai formcnt les vrais jurifconfultes & in
hottimesde lei; connoilTances necelTaires, pour rem-,
plir honorablemeot les fondioas dt president du fontt
du Eiats-unis.
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Wild has been a considerable tin)* © n the
mifiion in the country parts of the ftateof Pejin
(yWatiia, givH this notice to any exttmGve pro
prietor ofland with 1/1 the said ftattf, and border'
ing on either the Potormrk, Sufqurhanna, or
Juniata riven ; that h: is enabled to make a fat.
tlctiiem with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered -»
For tu ther inf.n ma-ioti, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neaie, Wil ingYAHey.
Fetl 8- ♦jt
The holders of Certificate#, ac
ceotances, endcrfomtnts r. id other engagement* of
• Edward Fox, for account of James Greealeaf, ar«
hereby notified, that Wednefdajr, the Febru
ary r»xt, i« the lall day, on nhich they can admit
fubfci iptions to the lund a!Tigß' i for the payment
of fai'd engagettienri; tod that thof.- holders, who
do not on or befor. - that day make their fuhferip
tions, will 66 ezcludod from the benefit thercoL
Htnry Pratt,
7". W. Francis,
J John Miller, jun.
j John AJbley,
' Jacob Baktr.
; Jiiuary 19. s 5
! ■ OVAL BOTTLES. ~
Quartand hjlfgallon in crates—indaqunti
fty of Claret Bottles of a right size-—l or fale-.
No. tj, CiiiTch Alley. JOHN DORSET.
Jw.=ry ti 3«aw6w.
IPublic Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' ColFee-houfc in Second-street,
«t 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick House, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a lot 10 feet front and
lOC feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet Iquare,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for aoo dollars per an
num, and is firuated in Chriftian-ftre*t, between
Front and Second street*, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
No ». A three story brick House, fituatl at
the aortheaft corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 f«et on Chefnut
ftre«t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollar.*, and is deemed one of
the best ttands for the sal« of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finifhed three story
brick House, 10 feet front and too feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftrecfc between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40. Thisi oufa is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cittern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house i* at pr:-
fert let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, Gtuate in
Ptumb-ftreet, betwe«n Second and Third street,
being ia feet front and 13a feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-ilreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 10
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafii,
<sne quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
aod one quarter in I a months.
Philadelphia, Jen. 11, 1798. 3awtljF
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to hii bufi
nefi, offers this Estate for file, on moderate
terms* On it are o«e Blalt sni three Air Furnaces,
a cwnplete Boreing Machine, aod a very-good grift
jyfili, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfc& repair, as are all the Water Works conne&- I
ed with ihcfe various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the p«rpofe of casting Cannon
for this State.—^There are about two thoufaod acres
of Land, one half of which wood, the other
very fine arable La*d, producing the best Hay and
Pasture* The Cannon lately mannfa6tured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, a<ad probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not Que of sixty-nine gans
lately made, although f»me of the 24 were bored
into #a pounders, have failed on proving. The fi'u T
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Conne&icut, and only 3Q miles from several land •
ings 00 the Hudson's and having every advan
tage that ean result from a plenty ot water iftuing
Fjora • Urge naipnO pond, very near the Furnace,
and whi h may b< converted into avariety of other
ufeful purpose*. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wvb all the flock, and utensils, and have
on or before the full of June next, and preparation
may be madeio the mean lime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter* for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. See. For
tfcrrqs, a.»ply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; Div id Brooks, Eiq. on* of tjje
fr\ Corvgrefs for t his State i Mr, P vrd Waterman, on
premifes, or to the prQprittor in Nrw-Yor)f.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
...
Recently Publijhed,
And j'j 1 imported from England, by WitHAM
GsirriTHS, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of NTor& n J. Ruee«,
At ncsp and valuable work, in two clefely
printed volumes ,in Svo. (price 3 dollar*)
Hlollrations of Prophecy :
la whi;K cure elucidated many predi&ions.,which
Oteur in Daniel, the writing* of the Bvan
gelifts, and honk of Revelation ; which are tho'fc
so foretell great events, a revolution
tn Frinee, 'avryraWfe to the interests of mankind,
aftical tyranny, the downfall cf c;v:l despotism,
and thefubfcq-.ient Jtelioration of the state of the
vrcrld : tngtther with
A large colkftion of Extracts,
( laf-rljrerfed tirongh the work, a*d taken from
numerous conrtltentators, particularly from
Jofeplj Mede, Sir llaac Uewiori,
Vitrioga, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
or. Htmy More, Bengelius,
Dr. John Owen, Daubtp,
Dr. CreiTener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, 1 owman,
Brenius, Bishop Newton, and
Bishop Chandler, Bifbop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
• Besides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illuflrations of prophecy ;
it contains a coaCderable number of fails or ob
fervatknU on the fymbolie language of prophecy,
tlie authenacity, uses, and abfeurity of the apo.
calypfe, and th* genuineness of th* Hebrew pro
phew; on the rapid cor iptionaf chriilianity in
the fourth century ; on the difperlion and reftora
tjo.n of the Jews, the history of the falfe Messiahs
who ha7e appeared among them, and the rrafons
infupport of the conjeflure that th* Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the tea tribes ; on the right of
rafiftaoce to opprefiion ; on the irruptions of th»
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fall of the Roman empire ; on the customs of the
Tartar*, and the indepeadence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those natiotis, and those ot the
Turks ; on the nfurpation ef the Mamalukes, and
th* pall history and present (late of Egypt; on
the chara&cr and cobdaA of Conftantine, jullini
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
cline of literature ; on tha rapid rife of tha French
monarchy, and the caafe* of it* iall; on the in
eooGftencics in the political charaAers of bishops
Newton and Hurd; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the ben«6cral
effefts which elirifliacity has produced in favor ol
Uarning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eftabliihmttit of equal government*.
Independent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Intcrefted in thefabjeft will, it isprefumed, wilh
topernfe or consult thern, because the extraAs in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater ntmber of writers on the prophecies (a:
Iraft if the roman catholic eommenutor* be ex
eKid*d) than are easily accessible to any ane indivi.
dual even ia Earope, or are probably to be found
in any one library in the world They are fur
nifbed with indexes, and a copious table of eon
tents. » J»n- M—lawiw
r 5 1 ■
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Behjami* Shiwell, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for tale by the subscriber,
No. 11. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medocwine, is do. f Drawback.
Santerne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsfd.
■ WHO HAS FO* SALE.
She.rry Wine in pipes and quarter eaflu
Rota do.- do.
Prmerrto in bags
4.000 bufbels Liverpool fait,
Aug. J4- tut&stf
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—.from London,
(Whera he has itudied several years under on* Of
the mod eminent mailers in that fcieoce)
INPORMS his friends that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, Stc. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himftlf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he make* no additional charge if there arc two
pupils in one family.
A 1 in* dir«<ft«d to W. H. left at the office of this
Gizette, will be immediately attended te.
January 9. §aw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and teHanwit of
William Hitsham, de«»af«l, and posses
sion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ft.-eets, eonfift
ing of the house, N*. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&ed, a flabU, and other improvements—
The house is »o feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water aud
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pu.-nps
in go»p repair. The liable Hands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central pcfition and the
advantages it poifeffes with refpeS to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfcn wiflling to poffeft in eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particaUrs enqnirejat No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or > Afling Executors.
Francis Bowas Say**, j
January 11 §
The Subscriber
INFORMS thoiS whom it may interest or con
cern, thar. the Judges of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed JlfinJay, the twcnly-jixtb day of
Ptbruary next % t» hear him and his Creditors, at the
Cotjrt-houfs in this city, on the fubjeA of his peti
tion for the benefit of the lufolvcat Law—and
that their attendance w deflred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia r , Jan. 16. eotl6thF
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
io the Bank of the United in the name
of b. B. No. 50C4, dated July 11, 1 797* l *»e fame
having'been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
book*, which have been kept open for their inflec
tion since December are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further inveftigatiorj and fcrut ; ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF*
Philadelphia, Jan. ift
All Persons
Having any demand* aganift the Eftatp of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requtlted to
bring in their accounts pioperly attefteil, on «r
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted eftate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SAftAH IUWIEJ, Admuuftratrix.
net'. 19 179*. 5
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
th* efUft of Wtt.WAM Fueswtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requeued to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested j and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
pajjjncnt, to
GEO. DOBSON, > ~ . ,
Nr.. 25, So. Tlrird-ilreet.'j Mm,n, fi r r
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December i, 1797.
ON a relcafe of survey of 4J3 acres.6B perches
of land, Cjuate in lower SmithfieM townihip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath mad* the following Bote, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
Geor?e Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Efq, Surveyor Gene
ral—William Varker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a'leve caveat, or any
others intrrefted or concerned therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
of the Laad Office.
AT. Lufborough.
January 16 §tiFiwtm
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-fir set, near Fifth.
January *9 diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—lnquire a
No. I*3B, Areh-ftreet.
Jan. »7. daw
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &e. situate on the IriiTl trail lane, in the
townihip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he ipade known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taHe and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December X. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVINO met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals
for printing by fubieription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firS meeting in 1775,10
the present time.
This work lhall be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose; and on good paper. It
will be delivered at one dollar per volume (ofta
vo) in 6 vols.—*a(h to be paid on delivery.
It isneedlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertaking—=the scarcity of the Jourpals
throughout the United States, is fufficient to jufti
fy the printer in his hop* of meeting with that
success, which he is certain the enterprise dcferv«».
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bouideaux Brandy
Tencrijft Vine
Motaffis
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Raven: Dutk and one htgjhead of pai-it
bru/hes.
N. (s* j. Prater.
No. Qs, Sonth Front Street.
AVv. 7. dim.
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING RV SUBSCRIPTION,
A NEW AMU lUTUKSTIN6 WORK, INTITIID,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing ti detail of the variou» crime# and mis
demeanor*, by which ptfbSie and private proper
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggclHng reinedietfor their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE*
"AAing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Eflex ; for the city and liberty of \yertrnin
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
To tbofe tubs have read this cwious and -valuable "work,
it ifill need n* recommendation—they knew Ml fittd merit
—but as it bis hitherto got into very fetv bands in this
country, it tviil net be- amiss to obfervt —Jo greet ivas toe
approbation and demand in lon Jon, that it puffed through
three large editions in the course of tiDelfc months. As a
dehit of the ingenious varieties of fraud, that endanger
property in London, and mfl o'ber overgrown and opulerit
cilui % it cannot fail to afford the render great entertainment
as •tvell as injlrußion ; hut as the aut/jor traces all these
enotnrit'us to a feiv, and in tbemfelve < % inconsiderable cauf
esy many of ivhicb a Really r+'J&sm till the large capitals of
the United Stater, the buftpefs is brought home to our otvn
doors ; and the teark bat ani>(c.reaftfl* claim to our ettcm
iivs perufjl.
To ajpji thi Itflat or and the magijlrate in the humane
office of preventing crimes, and their consequent punifh
trienUr, ivas the patriotic deftgn of the author. " Private
offences, he f*ys, are the source of public crimes, and the
beji method of guarding fciety agamft the latter is, to make
proper provisions, for checking the former"
,cre eaftly seduced from their loy/s'ty ivho are apoflates from
vhtte."
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent EngiiiH paper—lt will be delivered.*©
fitfticriberr, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Bollar and a half; although the last London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, «
now fold at ♦wo dollars and a ha!f. To non-fub
fcriberi the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by fub
farijption, it will be committed to rhe press without
delay ; and, barring accident!, will be roady for
publication early in April.
Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin DavjesVs book-floie, No. 68, High
ftreet, and by njolt of th 6 other booksellers in the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York.
Jaauary 31. lawtA
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
RATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Btrigai GOTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags Kid boxes
Jamaica,
St. Viucent9, > RUM.
Bengal J
300 ca&s RICE, sad
•A I'arct) of ftiip builiinf RED CEJ)AR.
OA- 2 7. .. . ' ......
To be Exchanged for
British, Serbian, »r India Goods,
T«rnc»ACl ;
A traft as valuable Land
I# Lycftmmg, joining that of ike Holland co.
and containing 50,900 Arret.
Inquire ef the Printer.
-. , §
N O T 1 C E.
Ti holders of JAMES GREENLEAF's
and EDWARD FdX's Engagements^
IN confequtrice of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumftancts from
Obtiiflirtg their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform then), they
»r« ready toiffue the fame to those -who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefout Street,
amd those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing tljeir claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
Deeembrr If. d6ct
FOR &ALE, AT
Wm. Young's Btek Store,
No. 51, Second ftree't, the corner of Chefnnt street.
REPORT of the Comnsittee ef the House of
Reprefentativesol the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI 4M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeach«d of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in purfuaoce of a resolution of
the Houf« of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to &t during the recess of Congrofs, and
infhu.Sing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" meant, to dtfever the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" (lands impeache.:, and who are the partisi and
" affociatesther«»."
Printed by order of the House of Rtprefentalives
December 10. §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. JlO Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Lib* art, ccn-
Gfting of upwards of ijoo volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inllruflion, or plea
sure. The coirditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be fcen at every look-feller's
in town. f
N. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and Span?ih Languages, execurea with ac
curac} and dispatch. eoim nov. 14.
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Secondfiriit,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
rcafonable terms. . 0$ 17. —41*
This Day is Published,
BY Me'flf. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric arid the
other BookfeJlerc,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegattiy printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWdT
The Constitutions
Of th. several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
classing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occasionally attend market, may
hear of a place by applying at the it mile ftooe,
on the Bnfiol road, or No. 109, Arch-flree:,
Philadelphia. A single man weirld bepreferedc
J««. jo. aavrtf 1
Jaanes' C. S? Samuel W. Fisher.
AT THE.:# STOJtS,
N0.513, comer of Arch raid Froat Areet.
It An FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunk?, alTored
A few bale» red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefi
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafi ditto
Ditto Gurrah»
Bengal black Taffi tics
4000 pice«?? Nankeen*, and
Few chtfti bed Hyson Tea
Alfo—lsoo boxes best London Window Olafs,
from %by 4, !to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware alTorted, which they will dtfpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 jtawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero f from Madras and Calcutta, and for
fa Is by the fuKfcriber, at N'.\ 61, Chefout street,
between Second and Third Streets, th» follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Chifconna Dor«ns
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muflias
Gillis Roirain Bandannoes
Nillas 8c Penfiafoes Chafla RomaU
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MiiltMulfiiar.kerchicfs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opivm
Leflcr Cardkuvim Seed«.
Samuel IVilcox.
November 17 tuth«4w
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fit* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
tia. These added to O's usual Hock, form an
extenlive and elegant colleilio» of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in sun
dry language* and on various l'ubjefis.
This Day it Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 7$ cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and embellished with au
cltgant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a vaknule colledlion of interesting and
mifcellaneom incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy eft'eds of youthful in
nocence and filial affeflion—ln prose and verse.
Defigfie'd to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
in the Prefi, and wtW be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. Theiiook
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embellished with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t.
_ FOR SALk, >r "
William Priestman,
129, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-house,
A large afjbrtmeiit-of
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candleftick,s
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Pifls>ls, by Knubley, Charing
Croft
Reßefling Telescope, by Ribright
Box of patent Med feints
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small colledlion of valuable Boolcs, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lets
Invoices or parcels of Watches bought.
January 4. <I 7 t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. fa, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now
ment of Emglijb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alft, such elementary books
on Sciencie, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY ti} BLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the futh edition, in one
large vol. S vo. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large la mo, price 1 dol 75 et>.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palteboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articlesj ef
the bell quality, used in tkc counting house, or
public office.
frt* Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OS. 24. —3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY 16 PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
By William Young, BoolfeUer,
No. ja, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Priu, in boardi, 87 I a Cents)
Weatiy' printed on fine American wove medium
Papef,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablifted in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of tlvat woi k, and cases in illufiration, chief
ly feleiled from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Yates (jf Chas. Maclkan.
To which i» subjoined, a Treatise on the a&ion
df Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for tjie cure of dtfeafes of indireil debility.
AndadilTertation enthe sources of Epidemicand,
Pestilential diseases; in whichisattempted toprove
by a numerous induction of faCts, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain ilatcs, or certain vicifiitude« of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclkan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. ji. (Jiit
Wantedto Hire,
A Large and convonient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rem will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Q<3. '7- eotf
Tin Plates,
FOR SALX BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth Areet.
December aI. Iw
For SaA 'annai ,
~~ Thefufi .Ship
s£&Jt SWIFI PACKET,
regular trader)
£#VJ-XigyS.. Patrick Gibben, matter,
' WILL fail on the loth inft.
(ice permitting) hashandfome acrommodationt
for pafTmgers. For freight or pjtfagc apply to
the mafler onborrd, at liicklay's wharf, a'ojve
Markat-flreet, or
N. & J. Fraaier v
No. 9j, South Front-flreer.
February v
For Amiterdam,
The Ship'
•lu&gkr- farmer,
Jow* M'Collom, Mafler:
J WILL fail in a few days, the
Saswi£ssfcfes&- greater part of her cargo' being
rrtdy. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
paflage, apply to the matter on board, at YVal
nut-flreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who ii landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeatix, and forfale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cafltf
Claret in cases, of a fupcrior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in eafe<
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
NoTcmbe 14. j
For Sale or Charter,
.S&j gooJ/hope
tySjajsfta Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
SftSSsElaZ is ready to take in a cargo. For terra*
apply to
Pragtrs & Co.
No. 1 si, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. r( t f
For Savannah7~in Georgia^
THE SHIP
Captain Ghisholm,
A ncw vcfrel > w 'th excellent
~ ' acommodations for passengers ;
Sails on the xoth December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS & SIMPSON.
IVbi Las to dtjpof-e »/,
A final! invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November tg. $
FOR S/ILB, ~~
By JOHN MILLER, jux. V Co.
No. 8, Ch*taut-ftre«,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS, 1
Amongst which are,
Gurrah» Mamoodies
Baftaa Sannas
Ouexcaafcj Tanda CoiTae*
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handhei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Paitna.
December i.
Insurance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania.
February I, 1798.
THE Directors have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars on each Chare of the flock of th*
company, for the last fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal repre&nta
tives after the 10th inft.
JAMES S. COX, Pre/,dent.
February I. dljt
Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Mafler,
""j Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Iff Son.
nq-vemher 9.
60 Dollars Reward. '
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber, on the 24th
of Decomber, 1797. a Ntgro Man, about 2 2
years old, by the name of Cato,h» is about j ieet
7 or 8 inches high.midliag well proportioned; he
has a very caarfe voice, his fore teeth stand very
far apart ; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
him, for he took two or tfirte suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kersey trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good Ihirts I
expea he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
Whosoever take* u * said negro andfecureshim, fa
that the owner may get him again, (hall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
January 2. "6uaw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufaQurfd,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Als ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
fuitahle for exportation or home confutfiption.
The highefl pi ice given for
Also forfale, A quantity of Becking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuilians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-flreet
»7- m.&th.t.ij.. v
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPEN INC,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Eock Street, a frefl,
afiortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
thefeafon, received by the late arrival) from Eng
land. 6
Tlri have al/o for vale.
I-lfbon -v
Teneriffe (
Sherry, and £ ln P'P«>hhds. and quartor casks;
Port Wines, j
Assorted queen's ware in crates, See.
loth mo- 2 td. dtwjtawtw.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX rot SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and 11—
back of no.jx, south Fifth ftrtet, phove Spruce
flren - ' eodiw
*Juft Pub/i/hed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in t*ie
city.price ou« dollar, twintyfivecents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTOH, m. d.
Jane as.