°f tijc a* d Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1780.J
For Cape Francois,
NORTH AMERICA, J
Barnes, Mailer,
TO fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or paflage apply to
Pratt & Kintzing, c
No. 95, North W««r, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Craft Cheese, Tumblers, Ticklenburghs, Heffens,
Brown Rolls, &c. &c.
may 25 eod6t
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably {aft failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
Tatbm. mailer.
Sh« will fail in ten days —for
freght or paflage, apply to JAMES YARD.
IValnut-Jlreet Wharf.
may 13 rirot
For Sale, or Charter,
j THE ARMED SHIP i
B E LVID E R E,
JnNA-T HAN Reynolds, Maftsr, j
LYI NG at Jeffeand Robert Wain's j ,
wharf, burrhen 256 to»8, built at J
New-York, by Mr. Chedehun in of live j
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
I,'oudon last year with 28 ounce hard rolled nary
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a icauEch and faft failing (hip, if well found—
mount* ten carriage guns and may be font to sea in
a few at a very little expence. For terms ol
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capr. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
street, to,
RICHARD D ARDEN.
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of shot
13 Tcnsrolle' ftiect lead
20 Bales English Duck, aflorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
may 19 §
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo,capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HollingJ'worth iff Co.
No. 22, Little Water itraet, South,
april 20. _ §
FoTSale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, op Walnut street Wharf,
195 caiks of nails aflorted
20 bales ©f fail canvas*, from No. 1 to 8
53 casks yellow ochre
j 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
Lon-lon particular ) Madeira wines
India market 3
Tenerifle do. in hoglheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty CUrct bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinetd &c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands a .id presses
to purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale learning twine
160 bundles flieatbing paper
A MAZ 0 iV,
r Sale, «r Charter.
Nicklin ts" Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
" FOR SALE.
'lO7 d"w,i} Havannah Su ß ar
20d Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adtive, Will
iam Williams, master.
Jilted said Brigfor sale,
And may take ill immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu HoUingfivorth & Co.
marcji 30. §
. FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompieat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handjbme
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person incliued to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular defcriptiod iscon
fidered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third caffi,
■one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG,
No. 11 Dock'Jlrcet.
may 16 _ §
CONTRACTS.
THE Managers of the alms house and houle
of employment, in this city, will receive
proposals in writing, to be left at said house on
or before Wednesday the 30th instant, from any
person or perfon®, willing to contrail for fur*
rifhiag Frefti Previsions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
' Veal, for tbe use of the poor in said honfes for
one year: The contrail to commence on the firft
of June enfjing ; the meat to bcfrefliand mar
ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind alternately, or in fides or careafes, as re
quired.—■— Also, for supplying milk for the life
c t the said poor. The milk to be new* sweet,
and unadultera ed, and the supply to commence
on the 14th of June ensuing.
By order of the Board of Managers,
JOHN CUMMINGS, Steward.
may 23 dtij
A Young Woman,
LATELY from England, wi(hes to engage
as a seamstress in a genteel family, or to at
tend a Lady.—A line left with th« Printer here
of will be immediately attended to.
may 23 *al
Wants a Place,
AS wet nurse, a Young Woman, who can
produce good rccomineadations,—Enquire
•f the Printer.
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chejnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAT 25, 1798.
Fox's Auction Room.
ON Tuesday next, at ten o'clock in the
morning, will be fold by auflion, a num
ber of articles in the Sadlery and CoAiH
Harness line—consisting of
Completefettscf Coach and Cha-"|
riot harness for a & 4 horses
Complete setts of Chair Harness plated
Complete setts of Furniture for I
like harness J
Plated Bitts, Spurs, Territs, Buckles, Staples &c.!
Spur Leathers, Straps F
A L & O, fc
A quantity of English Walnuts tl
Capers al
Sweet Oil ir
Coffee Sags ir
Glafs-VVare h
Looking Gliifies ir
Silver Watches vi
EDWARD FOX, auflioneer.
may 21
Colleiflor's Office,
Philadelphia, May 1 rt 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION. |
AT the Curtum-Ho-jfe, on Friday, the sis- j
teenth of June, i«8, the fallowing roer
j chandize, which remain in the Cuiluni-Houfe |
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the ; -i
t owners or consignees thereof s i .
fXH) eight half faggots of fleel j li
(TP) 202 one bale \
(FL) a quantity ot iteel c
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine ,
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons j
1 a 3 three bales girthweb I
[VH] 200 one ditto ditto
j NJ 200 one ditto ditto 5
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle dates .
J~LSI one small box locks - ,
__2 dtr 5 J
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at fne Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the llate of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatanjahi rivers, ad
joining tl)e common a of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, JohnHowell, & FerdinandQ'Neal,
25000 acres on Great Satilla, aajoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acre« in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands or jacsb War
rick, Dame. M'Cullum and JohnDilley. including
3OCO J-M*«
41000 acres in Bath county, on the eatl fide of
Cov/pafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
g 40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Covvpafture River, on the waters of frid river, and
of Calfpaiiure River, adjoiniug lands of Joseph
Grubb, and ( incluping 50:0 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in traclsof one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and trails abovm described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 4r,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
1- B. R. MORGAN,
I- No. 4r, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 91 North Eighth .Ireet.
1 may 14. <^ t9
advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rhe firft Friday in June next, part of a trad of
Land calftd STRUGGLE, lying in VVorcefter cotm
h ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate ol Jo(hua
h Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts,
j There will be given nine months credit for the ore
j 8 half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcka-
S ' fers giving bond with security for the fame, on in-
IC tereft, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
said Joshua Townfend are also again iionfied to
w produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 22d
day of December last, that being the day of the
l » firft sale.
* WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Troftee.
1} may 14. S3 W .
Robert Smith tsf Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE received by the Ihip Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Rufiia Goods, con
[e fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
re aAnd by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
>n Glasgow, an aflortment of Scotch goods.
iy They have also on hand India Nankeen?,
r- Lutestrings, and a variety of India Muslins.
id may 23 W
30 Dollars Reward.
r . 'T-'HE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
X oj:en last nfght, and several pieces of Stor
e. mount ground Chintz of a let figure were car
fe ried off. Whoever will apprehend the thief or
t thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
' above reward, or in proportion for any part
" thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
No 58 South Front -Jlreet. .
may 23
WILLBE PUBLISHED, on Thursday 24th inft
by JOHN ORMROD, Chefnut street,
A PATRIOTIC POEM CALLED,
l The ALIENS :
c Written by a Senator of the United States,
in confluence ot the Alien Bill.
Some institutions of Pennsylvania tre noticed—
Dedicated to GEORGE WASHINGTON.
In which the real American may enjoy
The frajl of reason ;
Aru the fuiv of foul.
rc (price 25 cent?.)
may 22. 3t
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the neveeft and mo!l approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jutt received,
AN# FOR 9ALB BY
Alex. J. Milter & Co.
No. 64, South Front street. ci
may \B. it
C 3* IF Mr* Charles William Klemekc, al
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for i«
some part of the United States of America, ri
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person Q
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti-
more, or to Meflrs. Ifaae Hazlehurft and Sun,
inPhiladelphia, he may hear of fometbing great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpeft- *
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke, n
would be thankfuliy received. V
may 19 _ d
Military Colours.
At C. GULLJGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Panting Rooms, 1
No. 50, South Fourth, next to ChcCnut llrcet, c
oppollte the Friends.' Meeting. \
PAINTING on fiiks for Military and other or {
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
i himfelf) durable, net to be injured by the Weathor,
I which for elegance of defiga, truth and beauty of 1
colouring, neatness and malterly execution, has J
net been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS i
Furnilhcd with all pofiible dispatch, on the raoft 1
reasonable terms. |
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck- j
ess, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that j
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.) j
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist matter of ki? profeflion.
Mr. Gwllager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, fUtters himfelf
that profetiional talents, pun&ttality, ahd reason
able demands, will meet entire approbation of
those gentlemen who will please to crll at his Paint
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in towli and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a mauerly m anner, will no j
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau ion j
given by George Rutter and Co. not to rruft (elf- I
flattering aclvcrtifements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies,—save thefpoil
ing of good fillcs by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contrasting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—by
George Rutter y Co.
Portrait and Painters,
IN a flile which will rndu*e he of the
weather without injury* and whiek for neatness
; and exa&itudc of colouring cannot surpassed in )
th'voity. , •
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with dispatch, «n the moll moderate
terms,
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplithed in that superb ftije
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges j
f himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
1 meet the entire approbation of hii friends and the
1 public.
In the Military Line,
e A variety of specimen's may be seen at their I
s Painting Room, Norrie'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
s may 3 d6w
' NOTICE.
C TTAVING obfrrved an advertifemect of C.
JIX Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
fcffional abilities, we have to requefl the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits ol each l>y a comparison oi
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ©f eflaMiftied artist*, Wkjs a view of de:eiv-<
- ing the public, and ec*rofling that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
c . govern, we flatter ourlVlves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great fupcrio
" rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
' trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
" fity of judging for themselves.
a N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th*
felf-flattering advertifemcnts of Mr G.
e Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
s DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
L " Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailey, Gcrmae
town. §6w may 8.
o " FOR SALE.
f > A neat Country House,
j HPHREE and a half miles from the city, on
JL the VViflahicon road, with seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in
grass. Apply to Edward Bonsall& Co.
- in Dock-street, or to the fubferiber, at Mount
Plcafyit, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premises.
Jonathan Williams.
n N. B. If not ibid before the firft of Juae, it
»* will not be for sale during the season.
may 19 J !
Very Great Bargains,
>, piONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch anJ
India Muslins, now'felling off and well
worth the attention «f Housekeepers to make
pur chafe of E&qmie of
Thomas Randall,
• e No. 83 Spruce-Jlreet.
may 17 §
> r Forty Dollars Reward.
Ie T} AN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
rt tv. Man, named Qlafgow, perhaps he may pas*
by the name of Glxfgoiv Lee, cr may change his
. name; he is aSout thirty one years of age, nearly
_ fix feet high, has afcar in the upper part of his un
it derlift, a i'mallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time past : he is a Aout, strong fellow, and
;s, has been employed at a saw mill a feW years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
- Mr. Joshua Liogoe, of this county. It is Tuppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber fball get him again, shall receive the
above reward. LSJME BAYLT.
Stats of Maryland, ">
Somerset County, april to./ may 4 —4W
C 0 N G R E S S. t!
t imm m
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, a'
_ tl
Thuhsgay, May 10. I d
(Continued from ( TueJday % s Gazette.) | o
Mr. Sumpter. was opposed to the prit.- j
ciple ol the bill, and difapprovt-d the objefts j)
it had in contemplation to effect ; but above
all he was opposed to the principle contained ),
in the firft feQion, namely, that of transfer- t |
ring the constitutional lej^iflativ- p 'wer of (j
Congress, to the President or Executive „
branch of the government. Gentlemen who {,
advocate this principle, being well apprized j,
that pointed and constitutional objection* ,
may be nrgtd against them, have thought f,
proper to draw to their support some prece-
dents in which Congrefa have made a trans., j
fer of their powers ; those precedents he t(
said could not be expeftcd to have iruch t
weight with him ; indeed they had no „
weight, for error could never be (auctioned
by being
questions had been agitated in
which had met with various fates ; but what f
ever the decisions might have been, lie had t
uniformly voted ag'ainit the principle of v
transferring power from one branch of the f
government to the other. j
Having been then in uniform opposition to j
the principle on every occasion, it was not to (
be expeftid that he should concur in its e- (
ftablilhment on the present, elpecial'j as the ,
pi opofed measure appeared to him to be high- ]
ly momentous, involving in it the peace, the ,
happinefsand even thelibcrty of his country. ,
Nay, so far from its being to be estp fled (
that he (hould throw in Wis vote of approba - |
tion, it was to be expefted (and he would ,
not deceive that expeftation) that he (hould i ,
be more earned ia his opposition ; and be- .
lieving that there was no neceflity for raising | j
a provisional, or any i'.rmy, at this time, he j ]
intended to vote the whole bill.
He recommended to the committee to i
take a comprehensive view of our situation, !
before they engaged in a system of such im
| menfe expence, iu doing which he said they
I would neceffariiy turn their attention to '
what is palling among the nations of Eu- j
rope—by one of these nations it was said,
the United States are imminently threatened; (
gentlemen urge it ftron;ly as a thing certain
and at hand, that we are to apprehend eve
ry species of attack—but notwiihftanding all j
that had been ' eneated over and over on j
this head. He ft.'.! differed in opinion with
those RCntlemen. as to what was likely to be ;
the itfue. He bad attended to all the in- j
formation which had been disclosed, he had j
• iiftened pati' Ltly to gentlemen's speculations, \
! and hsd contemplated as far as his mind was j
repi'oje of bearing him thro' the refearch,a:!d i
that too with greu folic : 'un • hi i
the situation of the Uni'ed States, as tliey
(lood connected vith a certain European
power. He had not been able to discover,
1 nor did he believe, that we have any cau eto
apprehend an immediate invasion from that
quarter —nor was he inclined to believe that
even luch an intention existed—but even it if.'
; did, will any man, who is capable of forming
! a judgment of the preient state of things
there, and what they are likely to be lor a
confideiable length of time to come, fay that
there is not ample employ meni for their ener
gies, that there are not difficulties of such
• magnitude in the way as will secure us jfrom
' an invasion for a longer period than those
' gentlemen who have expressed cheir alarm,
t have thought proper to foretell ? For hi»
: part, he had no doubt but this was the cafe,
■ be felt surprized, indeed, at finding gentle
men so apprehensive of danger fiotn this
' quarter, that they were not content with an
t additional army of 10,000 mea, as reported
• by the fcleA committee, bu> for employing
20,000, the number propofeJ by the Senate.
' Nay some of them did not even thick
themselves secure, unless the number was
. extended to 50,000, for even that number
has been advocated 011 this floor, but have
' genflemen no feeling for their ConftituenU :
• will'thev drain their pockets to the last c?nt ?
The Committee are informed that the annu
" al expence of 10 000 men will not be de
frayed under four millions of dollars ; but
this information is not accurate, 4 millions of
1 dollars, will be found inadequate, when we
I come to bring into the account the large
! items of expence necefiary ths moment such
t a force is put in motion, even theexpeuce of
1. four millions of dollars will be found great,
perhaps unbearable, but what would the ex
t pence be, if it was made commenturate with
the apprehtnfions of those who are moll
alarmed.
This favorite scheme of raising a (landing
d army, piull be pulhed forward by every aid
II of Ju3 and fSion, and that its success may
e be iafured, the fouthein members are to be
tetrified into its adoption, for we are v Id,
that the fouthsrn fta es have much to
'' that thert is every reason to believe the
souther:. dates will be fpeedil* invaded by a
mercileft and vindictive foe from the Weft
o I idits. That at this moment, thousands
r< may be difgorgingon our (liores.that they are
is prepared to ttrike. And the gentleman
y from South-Carolina (Mr. Harpisi*. one of
g h;s colleagues) has in the height of his zeal
n sot American defence, or his. fears for the
fafety of the southern dates, or from some
1( other cause, which he did not pretend to di
d vine, by his nice and minute delineations of
the condition of the southern states. (hewn
d to the house a terrifying pifiure of southern
n imbecility, and had also publifhe.i to this
lc cruel, maliciitK and in lid nous enemy (as he
IC terms them) an enemy fußLiently penetrat
ing without his aid, e».ry point, every ave
nue, every position, mail advant geous for
[_'/0LU ME XIII.
them to take in attack, he hasexpofed our
mo ft vulnerable parts to their inveteracy,
and our wealthielt part to their rapacity !
the policy or prudence which di&ated the
detail,-he did not flop to examine, but went
on to ask, supposing these marauder's were
disposed to invade the southern Hates, wlie*
ther it would not be allowed that they were
too fully and completely occupied nearer
home, to be at liberty to execute at this time,
their inteii'ions of such an invalioii ? For
his part, he thought such wa» their conditi
on, and cxpe&td it woud continue to b« fa
for some time to come ; but admitting that
iti« possible for the man w'no has bten men
tioned, to invade our coalt with the three or
four thousand men spoken of, the conse
quences predicted are not likely to follow.—
i'hr reasoning ofiis colleague being admit
ted, perhaps hi" conclusions might ulfo ; but
the former not being just, the latter could
nnt result.
He was aw?re that the number of inhabi
tants of the lower couutry cf the states of
Georgia, South and North-Carolina. a*
stated by his colleague was not ve> y rcat j
but he did not consent to the deduftion
which the genlleman lad made, uiat, there
fore, the lower country wa« very weak in
point of force, to 01 pole an invasion. And
here he deemed it proper to notice the : :■*
tempt which had been made to dr.iw invidi
ous diftinflior.s between the militia force of
our country, and what are termed regu
lars ; attempts conftandy made by the fidvi>-
| cates of Handing armies, not only on this
i occasion but on many others ; not only on
! this floor, but in the other branch of the
legislature, and very lately, in a very point
ed manner by his colleague (Mr. Harper)
who prefled the establishment of a lia iding
army by depressing the manly charafter of his
| fellow citizens, he (Mr. Harder) had f id
i he was well acquainted with ihe southern
! states, that the inhabitants on the seaboard
| are few, that for jo or 60 miles they are
ftil fewer, that the Uroag'pop'ilaiion is quit*
! remote, that the whole in jeneral are badly
. armed, many altogether without arms ;
; that they are not well organized, and even
j if they were, they are net to be depended
upon, unless headed and aided by regular
1 troops ; in (hort, that no good can be ex
pefled from the militia, unless they are fup
porced by regulars,
j Now. said Mr. S. admitting my colleague
I to know something of the geographical situ
ation of the country he has attempted to de
i liniate by such an unfavourable dtfeription,
I neither he nor his conftituer.u ought to be
! surprized if I allure him, that if hij know
j lfdge of the military prowess of his country*
i men is so limited aa his dtfeription indicates
! it amounts to little or nothing at all ; the
1 true force of the southern states tn defend
thetrttyves, catjnot be doubud fc>y wl«*
were attentive observers o'. its exertion thro'
our revolutionary war. AnJ the militia,
notwithstanding its defairtrs, fffe&ed much.
All the corps were not of t,' ,e dtfeription of
that to which hiacollei, ve laid he orce be-
he (Mr. Harplr) kad laid*that the
corps of which he had been a member was as
refpcftable a any whatever, but he had re
marked while he belonged to it th.it they
were generally difiatisficd, always in d'for
der, and when drawn ir.tA ftrvice always re
laxing from difcipliue, quitting th« corps
1 and returning home without leave, and not to
be kept together or ai all to be depended
' upon, unless when a&ing with or led on
1 by regular troops. Heie Mr. S. ohferv d
• that he had had an opportunity ot feeing the
commanding officer cf the co ps to which.
' his colleague had fahf he belonged, within
two months after the corps was raised, then
1 on a tour ot duty with the fonthern army,
I and it eviuced to his tntnd that there wa*
femewhat of that want of difcipliue, and de
; sir f e tube or remain at home among some of
1 the corps, for he really had no recollection
' of feeing him with his officers, and there
: may be some reason to conjeffuie that he
■ had not accompanied him on that tour of du
■ iy : if so, it will no longer be wondered at
that the gentleman intiftson placing 110 con
- tjdence in militia men generally, and if he
t Mr. S. was to detail what he Kid . itneffed
f of the strength, of the means and of the dif
; position cf the southern tmiitia it would go
! to fnew that he (Mr. H.) not being on the
1 ground, has less knowledge of the fnbjeft
f than he is desirous of being believed to
1 pofTefs.
It is an unpleasant thing said Mr. S. for
1 me to have to make any remarks on a fub
-1 jest of this fort ; hut so frequently have gen
tlemen made invidious dillinilions between
I the courage and efficacy of militia and regu
d lars and with so much jnjuftice to the for
y mer ; that I cannot permit thei<- atfertions
e any longer to pass without notice. For do-
I, ing this, Ido not meai.' to derogate from
', (he raerit of the late AmtWcan regular army
e nor more particularly from that part of it
a which fcrved to the southward, of whose
> condition I can bett«r judge than of that
s which served in the midule and eastern dil
e tiifti ; as to {hem, I am b.ld to fay, they
n were rot inferior, under all circumfhmces,
if to any army of equal numbers and equal o Ji
ll portunities, which I have heard or read cf,
e in anytime or in any place—but then it mi.ft
e be also remembered, whatever gentlenrvn
i- may here fay to the contrary, that the militia
>f were as serviceable, and as fuccsfsful as any
II regulars whatever,
n He said he would take a rurfory review
is of the services of the militia in one of the
ie southern states which v ould tend to support
t- his last declaration.
c- He would quote o*!y a few cases ont of a
>r great number whfre the milits#' had afted a-one, without My co-operation or support <
iroiti tlie it alar., and Li «t against the ve'e- 1
ran and conquering cavalry and infantry ol
firi irti corpj, and in which aftions they were ;
dilli .guilhed for their bravery an<J success. ]
It may be remembered th.it very partial if any
impressions had ever been made by our regu
lar troips on the Britilh corps of cavalry du- :
ri;i|T the early period of the war ; and it
framed to be rcferved to the font hern militia
m convirfce them that their eqaals exiftd in
our country. It is not to be attributed to
the want of courage or discipline in our te
gular corps that this had n> t been done be
fore, but to imperious circumstances which
no Ikill could overcome, but this did not
change the faft.
After the fall of Charlcfton in 1780. the
firft aftion, and that fought by the militia,
without any aid fr >m our regulars, was the
aft on of Filhing crtik, where without en. j
terinjf into a minute description of all the :
circumstances attendant on luch an occsfion, ■
it wiil be fufScient to fay, that the gallant j
captain Ronke who commanded a fqtiadron
of Tarlton's legion fell, and the whole force
was beaten and difperLd.
A few day c after, and here permit me said
Mr. S. to rt»Ark, tlia if roy co league does
not remtmber, and our historians have neg.
lefUd to record the atchievnients of the mi
litia, y t jurtice is in f. me dtgjree done them
by A Sri ifh Hifiorian, who was an office'
in the Britilh service in tha- part of on coun
try, and at the very time I am speaking of,
who corroborates my fails. A few days af
ter an attack was rfu.de by the niilit a on
Rocky M(V t, and Col. Turnbull who com
manded the ei-cmies force, and who is now
•n New Y rk, I have no doubt hai candour
enough to acknowledge, that from the con
test he had with them (although strongly de
feated by well conftrufted works) and which
lasted ! n hourt, there is something due to
their bravery and the effeft of their arms.
Eight days after the affair on Rocky
Mount, an attack was made on the Brit ifh
at their polls of the Hanging Rock. The
force on this occasion cot.fifted of the fame
corps of South Carolina militia whehad enter
prized on the other occasion ; they were in
number about 600 ; they had been joinedby a
few of the militia from North Carolina, and
it is n pleasure to refleft on the cordiality and
bravery difplayei by then on this occasion.
The enemy's force at this pall was 1200
tffe6tive< ; yet the tefult wj>, af.er an acti
on which lasted thro'the greateftpart of the
day, that major Bryan's corps was totally de- |
seated, the Prince of Wales' regiment exter
minated, even 'is name has never since been j
recorded. Other detachments from the
63d and 7til under the command of major
Garden were also cut up, driven from their
encampment wi h the entire loss ofbaggage,
&c. , and, in the course of this aftion, cap
tain Kjnlaw, vvi h a Iquadron of Tarlcton's
Legion arrived from Rocky Mount, made 3
d fperate charge on the militia, was repul
sed by them and fled to Camden, without
attempting to renew the combat. In this,
as well as other aftions, it to be re
membered, how many field officers, brave
crptaine and ether officers, as well as
valuable citizens fell, or were wounded,
while at'ither nation had to regret in this
attim alone, the loss of upwards of 800 men.
P ifing by a number of important and
considerable cor Bids which took place be
tween the Britilh regulars and the Southern
militia, still unsupported by regulars of our
own army, said Mr. S. I come now to men
tion the attack which was made in the neigh
bourhood of Winnefborough, while Lord
Cornwallislaid in that t wn, upon the S uth
Carolina militia by a Britilh regulir force
under majors Wymes and M'Carther, sup,.
ported by two tro r ps of cavalry the wlv le
corps drawn together and formed for the
ptirpofe, after various charges made by the
infantry and cavalry, and after repeated re
pulses, the encny was totally repelled, their
commanding (.fficer wounded and taken, to
getber wi h a number of his corps, and the
veil were dispersed.
On the return of colonel Tarleton to
Winnefborough, another effort was made,
and from the number as well as the nature
of the troops employed, it was certainly in
tended to be effedlual in driving the South
Carolina militia from that part of the coun
try; for it wasTarleton's legion, M'Carthy's
corps, and that part of the 63d under Major
Money, wlvch tnops were ltd to the attack
of the miiitia on the 20th of November, the
result of this aftion. is known, to those who
do not wilh to detraft from the merit
of the militia. The enemy's detachment
consisted of 270 leginary horle, and upwards
of 400 regular infantry, with two field pie
ce" ; the militia were between 5 and 600
without (as indeed they were thro' a 1 the
aftions I have described) a single piece of
atriillery. In the numb-'r of .nilitia are in
cluded some Georgians, who not only acquired
honor to themselves from their exertions on
that day, but did honor to their country.
'J he fate of the Britilh cavalry was then de
cided ; they had been formerly unconque
rable, but after that day they were never
known to be brought to aft with either ener
gy oi* elfcft.
Knowing the ardor and firmnefs of the
fouthera militia, and not doubting but the
militia of the several Hates in ihe Union,
pofitfs equal motives tor their exertions,
equal spirit and aftivity, I cannot, said
Mr. S. but rely on them as the natural and
main fuppori of our national independence—
a support fully effeftual without a recurrence
to a (landing army. These few cases, and
it is flopping very fiiort inde»d of what the
merits of the fouthcrn militia deserve, tend
to (hew that the charges brought againlitbe
militia generally are as unfounded as they
are cruel to their feelings ; while at the feme
time they demonstrate, that if an invasion
(which is a contingency by no means likely
to happen) Ihould aftujlly take place, v?e
may rely with confidence on the manly ex.
enions of the militia, to meet the attack,
and to re fx ft every effort, at lead for such a
period a 9 until more effeftive aid (hall be
drawn down to their support, and more per
maaent measures adopted.
Mr. S. concluded with faying, that near
a million of dollars had been appropriated
for the purchase of artillery and small a> ms ;
350,000 for additional for ifications and
80 000 for fitting galliea. He wished the
appropriation for the gaUita to have been
increafcd, by taking a par' from the sum
appropi rated for additional fortifications : as
he conceived from the nature of the attacks
or injuries to which our sea-board is exposed,
it would furnilh the motl expeditious and
effectual means of fafety to the inhabitants
who might be threatened ; if to thil mean of
riefence, were added the vigilence, a&ivity
and firmnefs of the m litia, he thought gen
tlemen might con fide r themselves tolerably
fife, without rcforting to that worst of all 1
expedients a (landing army; especially, if
j they believed wirh him that the danger of an
; invasion from Europe was very remote in
! deed ; and that from the Weft-lodies not
| likely to take place for want of opportuni
ty, even admitting such an intention is en
tertained. Under this view of the fubje&,
he wished the question of raising an army to
remain umkeided until a future fcfTioo of
Congress ; —and from the reasons and argu- j
ments he had urged, he was influenced not
only to vote againll the firft fe&icn, but the
whole bill generally—under a hope, that
Congress might rely on the natural force of
the conn iy, on which alone ihey could de„
peed in all cases of extreme danger, and
without which neither a (landing army or a
navy, or flrong holds or fortitocations would
be a security for our political exillence or
independence as a nation.
Mr. J. Williams believed there was but
little real difference of opinion betwixt those
whr> were in favour of ftrikingout the fiifl
fettion, and those opposed to it . The former
suppose an army will Jje necessary in cafe of
war, or an invasion, and the latter wish to give
the President the power to raise the men in
cafe the danger of either was very great. He
(hould vote for retaining the firlt feftion;
though, as it flood at present, he did not alto
gether like it. If the motion for (triking out
was loft, he Hiould move to amend it by con
fining the exercise of the power proposed to be
given to the President, to the receis of Con
gress. He truited gentlemen would not be
willing that Congress fliould rife without
something more being done for the defence
of the country than has been done. No one
could fay how soon an attack might be nude
upon us, and whenever it was made, we ought
certainly to be in afituation to repel it, which
would not be the cafe, except a bill of this
kind was pafTed.
A resolution had been laid upon the table,
he said to increase our Standing Force to 10,000
men; but it might happen that no neceflity
would arise for increaling our present force.
He wiflied only that the President might have
the power of increasing, it, if there Ihould be
occasion to do so.
Gentlemen had said much in defence of the
Militia of this country. Had he heard any
thing said derogatory to the bravery of our
Militia, he fliould long since have risen in
their defence. No man could doubt for a mo
ment that the Militia of this country are as
brave as any in the world.
He was astonished to hear the gentleman
from Tennessee fay that when Regulars and
Militia aft together, they generally quarrel.
Thisaffertion must have anfen from his want
of experience. He wa3 himfelf for eight years
engaged in the war, and never saw any thing
to juftify the remark. The plains of Saratoga
spoke for themselves. At Bennington the Mi
litiaconquered superior numbers, in the second
aftion they were, it is true, joined by Conti
nental troops. But why recount these things ?
It was idle to suppose regular troops and mi
litia fliould quarrel with each other, lince
they all fight in the fame caui'e, and with the
fame feelings. No better troops could be em
ployed than Militia in a sudden emergency ;
but, as had been already stated, they icmain
ed impatiently in the field for any length of
time.
Considering the extenfivenefsof onr expos
ed lea coast, it could not be supposed that
our present small number of standing troops,
could be fuffirient for the present situation of
things. Militia ought not to be called from
their families and occupations, except in par
ticular emergencies. As to any danger to be
dreaded from an army of this kind tothe liber
ties of the country it was a mere phantom, and
he thought it was paying but little refpett to
our Militia to suppose the liberties of the
country could be endangered by a regular
force of 10 or 20,000 men ! Beiides it would
be attended with less expence to raise these
men, that to call out the Militia from time
to time. He had something to do in the draft
ing of militia in 1794, and in consequence of
i the law of last session, and knew the difficulty
attending it. Not one out of five who was
drafted could leave his family. These people
were obliged to find men in their stead, which
they did at from 15 to 20 dollars. To call the
1 Militia from the part of the country where he
lived, which was betwixt 3 400 miles from
the sea coast, would be attended with great
; inconvenience indeed. He hoped this bill
would pass ; if not, he forefaw great expence.
We must augment our present army, and per
haps Congress would have occasion to fit here
all summer, for they could not adjourn until
some farther provilion was made for the de
fence of the country. It was true, the President
might call into service a part of the 80,000
Militia held in requisition, but it would be
attended with great expence and inconveni
ence, which he wiflied to avoid, by palling this
bill.
(To be continued.)
Jufl: Landed,
AND FOR SAL* BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
, No H9, South Front fireet,
1$ hhds. and 2 barrels green Coffee
WHERE MAY ALSO BE HAD,
> Mountain and Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr. calks
, A few calks of superior old Colcmenar wr.je, fit
for the immediate use of private families
I Calcutta and Madrafs Goods.
CONSIST! NO OF
Pullicat, Chappa, Madrafs, and Barhar Handker
chief?.
1 40 boxes of Spermaceti Candles—and
' A few green silk Umbrellas of large sizes.
EDWARD DUN A NT.
may 24 *3t
The Subscribers,
.ARE landing
; At Willing' wharf, from on board Qf the
Brig Latin I A, Capt. Caffio,
J 1711 Bars of Archangel Iron.
FOR SALE
PbtiipSx Cramond & Co.
may 33 jt
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Af.<r 25.
CONGRESS.
Ycflerday, the House of Representatives of the
United States, resumed the difcuflion of Mr. Sit
greaves's resolutions for inftrudting the comman
ders of our public and private armed vefiels; and
the motion for a postponement of the consideration,
of these resolutions until thefecond Tuefdayin June
being again under consideration, after a few words
againlt the motion by Mr. Hartley, the queftkn
was put and negatived 43 to 37. The question then
returned upon a reference of them to a committee
o? the whole, which was negatived,there being only
21 votes for it. The resolutions were then referred,
agreeably to the original proposition of the mover,
to the Committee for the prote&ion of commerce
and the defence of the country, to report by bill or
other wife. The bill from the Senate for the farther
prote<£tjon of the commerce and coafls of the United
States, was referred to the fime committee. The
Houie ipent the remainder of the fitting on a bill
providing for the more effe&ual colledion of certain
internal revenues of the United States, which was
finally agreed to, and ordered to be engrofled for a
third reading to-day.
At a psblic meeting of the citizens of Bohemia Ma
nor and SafTafras Neck, in Cecil county slate of
Maryland, the following address was unanimouf
lyappioved, and dire&ed to be forwarded by the
Chairman to their representative in Congress, to be
prefenied
To thi PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
AS portion of the people of this government,
paiticipaiiog in the advantages refilling from well
fecurcd freedom, we cannot remain indifferent to the
manifold injuries, which, in violation of a solemn
treaty and the laws of nations are daily infli&ed on
our fellow citizens- Nor can we view with apathy
the reiterated indignities and outrages offered to the
government of our choice.
Although we are not engaged in commerce, we are
sensible of its importance to our interests as cultiva
tors of the earth, we therefore consider ourfelvc*
bound by that consideration, as well as the obligation
of tnu'ual concefton to our fellow-citizens who pur
sue commerce, to contribute to its proteftion. We
also mod firmly believe that the interests of the peo
pleandof the government are as intimately blended
as those of agriculture and commerce ; and we hold
all attempts to separate the one from the other, in ut
ter deteftat'on.
If, as has teen insultingly insinuated, or ratheT as
serted, there is a faction in this government so loft to
American feelings, as to espouse the unjust and arro
gant pretensions of a foreign nation, we beg leave to
allure you that we are not of that d,efcription. And
we truftthat very few will be found so unworthy the
bleflings they enjoy.
Whilst we sincerely lament that the prudent and
pacific steps taken by our chief magistrate to preserve
peace, so defireable to all nations, are likely to fail of
the wished for effeft, we highly applaud the policy of
such temperate proceedings. Seeing in them a fia
cere and ardent desire to promote and accelerate an
accommodation with the republic of France, on terms
compatible with the rights, duties, interests and hon
or of the nation, we are encouraged to place addition
al confidence in the integrity and wisdom of thecon
ftituted authorities ; and the more readily to promise
our willing aid in support of such measures as may
be adopted by them in the present unhappy situation
of our public concerns.
We pray you, fir, to accept our best wishes for the
prolongation of your life, hitherto so eminently dif
tinguilhcd for its ufefulnefs and patriotism, and that
it may be blefied with the enjoyment of every happi
ness.
E. OLDHAM, Chai man.
May lath, 1798.
ANSWER.
To the citizens of Bohemia KJanor, and saffafras Neck, in
Cecil county, in the slate oj Maryland.
Cent LEMEk,
I thank, you for this address. it would be unac
countable indeed, if any portion of a people, who
acknowledge a participation in the advantages refus
ing from well secured freedom, could be indifferent
to the manifolq injuries which in violation of a so
lemn treaty and the laws of nations, are diily inflift
ed on our fellow citizens, or view with apathy the
reiterated indignities and outrages offered to the gov
ernment of their choice#
The importanceof commerce to the interests of the
cultivators of theearth, is so obvious, that at lea ft as
much zeal has appeared for its proto&ion in the land
ed interests as the monied interest, in farmers as in
Merchants, in country citizens as in navigators.
If the interests of the people and of the govern
ment aTe not as intimately blended as thofc of agri
culture and commerce in an eleflive government, in
what other form can they be more so ? Will those
who attempt to separate the one from the other pre
tend that in hereditary governments they are more so ?
or under military conquerors ?
I believe with y«u that very few will be found so
unworthy of th« bleflings they enjoy, as to espouse
the unjust and arrogant pretensions of a foreign nation,
yet we have found that a few venal prcttes, and un
principled mercenaries have been able to raise loud
clamors, produce much discontent, and threat
en serious calamities.
Theexpreflion*of your fatisfa&ion and confidence,
as well as the promise of your willing aid, in sup
port of such measures as may be adopted in the pre
sent unhappy situation of our public concerns, arc ve
ry agreeable.
For your kind wishes for the prolongation of my
life, I return you miue, for every blefling on you and
posterity.
TOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May igth, 1798.
In the address to the President, from the
Students of Harvard College,after noticing
the manoeuvres of France among the powers
of Europe and the recent propositions for
making us their disgraced, humbled tribu
taries, they fay ;
« We have seen this, Sir, and our youth
ful blood has belled within us. When, in
apportion to such conduct, we contemplate
the measures of our own government, we
cannot but admire and venerate the unfnl
lied integrity, the # decifive prudence, and
dignified firmnefs, which have uniformly
chara&er/fed your adminjftration. lmpreffed
with these sentiments, we now solemnly offer
the unwafted ardor and unimpaired energies
of our youth to the service of our country.
Our lives are our only property y and we
were not the sons of those who sealed our
liberties with thcit blood, if we would not
defend with these lives that foil, which now
affords a peaceful grave to the mouldering
bones of our forefathers."
Asfwer to the Address of the Inhabitants
of Qrn'ncy.
To the Inhabitants of the Town of Quincy, in
the State of MaJJachufetts.
GENTLEMEN,
NEXT to the approbation of a good
conscience, there is nothing perhaps which
gives us more pleasure than the praise of
those we love most, and who know us the
most intimately.
I could not receive your address—in
which I read with pleasure iaexpreffible,
the names of Clergy and Laity; Officers
and Soldiers ; Magistrates and Citizens of
every denomination ; among whom were
the mod aged, whose countenances I had
refpe&ed ; my fchool-fellows and the com
panions of my childhood, whom I had
loved from the cradle ; —without the live-
Heft emotions of gratitude and affe&ion.
With you, my kind neighbours, I have
ever lived in habits of freedom, friendfhip,
and familiarity ; we have always agreed
very well in principles and opinions ; and
well knowing your love of your country I
and ardour in its defence, your explicit j
declaration upon this occasion, though un- j
expe&ed, is no surprise to me. Accept of ,
the best wishes of a sincere and faithful
friend, for a continuance of harmony among
you, and for the prosperity of all your in
terests.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 11, 1798.
Allentown, May ytk, 1798.
At a numerous and refpeftable meeting of the c't
tizens cf Upper Freeholds in the county of Mon
mouth, and of those in its vicinity from the
counties of Burlington and Midd/efex, in the
State of New-Jersey, convened agreeably to
public notice for the purpose of taking into con
sideration the political situation of the Un:ted
States, Robert Montgom *ry, esq.
c,was unanimously eleSed chairman, and
Elisha Lawrence,,efq. Jec*y.
When the following persons were unanimous
ly Appointed a committee to draught an address
to the President, the Senate, and House of Re
presentatives of the United States : —viz. Robert
Montgomery, John Imlay, col. Samuel Quay,
George Woodward, Daniel Sexton, Robert
Wilson, Joseph Holmes, capt. Robert Cham
bers, John Lloyd and Elifba Lawrence, who af
ter retiring a short time, reported the following
address :
Viewing with pleasure, and congenial senti
ments the many rsfpedlable addrefTes, presented
at this alarming and critical period, we beg leave
to jo'n our aflurances of approbation, of the
dignified exertions of the President, to secure
the peace and prosperity of our country, and
our firm reliance in the wisdom and patriotism
of the Rational legislature. We have read with
indignation, the base attempts made upon the
honor of our ministers in France, and through
them upon that of the United States. We con
template with pleasure, as the best proof cf the
j wisdom cf their appointment, the firm, manly
and patriotic manner in which those attempts
I were repelled, and the henor which the condutf
exhib ted by our commifTiotters to the French re
| public, cannot fail to refleil on the American
| name.
| Sensible of, and grateful for the bleflings we
enjoy, under the government of our choice, we
view with equal abhorrencp, the idea of crouch
ing to the servile terms of foreign taik-mafters ;
and the baneful conduft of those among our
selves, whose influence, if not speedily checked
will be found to be a canker, praying upon the
root of that independence, purchased with blood
and which we will resign but with our lives.
As our fields have Scarcely recovered from the
ravages of eur revolutionary war, during which
awful time, the state in which we live was fre
quently the scene of a&ion, a remembrance of
those days of difficulty, cannot fail to give a zest
t® our hard earned freedom—while the recollec
tion, that the great and illuflrious chiej flill lives,
who led to conquest and to glory, will, we trust
if neceflary lighten the embers in the heart of
age, and inspire our youth to emulite the praifc
worthy example of those in the metropolis.
We deplore the mistaken policy of France,
founded in injustice and ingratitude,and we fear,
aided by treachery.
The horrors of war excite our keenest sensi
bility, but we prefer them infinitely to the base
surrender of a single right.
The firm, moderate and unfhalten patriotism
of our President upon the present occasion, de
mands our gratitude and thanks. It inspires us
also with confidence to acquiesce in every mea
sure which the national legislature shall in their
wildom direct, or the temerity of our enemies
make necessary.
Resolved, That the chairman do sign the tore
going address, and transmit a copy thereof to
the President of the United States, and both
houses of Congress.
Signed, by order of the meeting,
ROBERT MONTGOMERY chairman.
ELISHA LAWRENCE, secretary.
To the Editor of the Gazette of the United States.
S 1 R,
THE following pafTages, taken from the
History of Greece, are so appropriate to
the present crisis, that I am tempted to re
quest a place for them in your Gazette.
They offer an impreflive lesson. Let us
weigh well the danger of disunion at home,
while the acurfed lust of un verfal domina
tion threatens our independence from abroad.
Treating of tLe Achaean league—that me
morable league, whose object was the re
covery of the long-loft liberties of Greece,
which intestine divisions excited by foreign
influence, had at firft destroyed—the histo
rian thus proceeds :
" He" (Aratus) " persuaded a number
of the small republics to enter into a league
for their own defence, which was called the
Acha:an league ; and notwithstanding that
the republics, taken singly, had very little
strength; they not only maintained their
independency, but footi became formidable
when united. This afTociation continued to
become daily more and more powerful; but
received a severe check from Cleomenes,
king of Sparta ; which obliged them to call
in Antigonus to their afliftance. This
prince overcame Cleomenes at the battle of
Sellafia, and afterwards madehimfelf master
of Sparta. Thus he became a more formi
dable enemy than the one he hid conquered;
and the recovery of the Grecian liberties
was incomplete.
<c Soon after this, the Greeks began to
feel the weight of a power more formidable
than any which they had yet experienced ;
namely, that of the Romans. That insidi
ous and HAUGHTY REPUBLif JirJl inter
meddled with the Grecian affairs, under pre
tence of setting them at liberty from the
oppreflion of Philip of Macedon. This, by
a proper .union among themselves, they
might have accomplished : but in this they
a£ed as if they had been infatuated; re
ceiving, with the utmost joy, the decree of
the Roman consul, who declared them free j
without confideriug, that he who had thus
given them liberty, might take it away at
kls pleasure. Th\s lejfon, however, they were
soon taught, by the total reduction <f their eoun
try to a Roman paovince. Yet, this can
fc3rcelv be called a misfortune, when we
look back to their history, and cenfidet
their outrages upon one another : nor can we
sympathize with them for the less of that
liberty which they made life of to Jill
their country with Jlaughtcr and lloocljhed."
From the Merchants Advertijer.
TRANSLATION
Of the copy of a letter written by T. Hedoutille,
Agent of tHe Executive Dire(9ory at St. Domin
go, to the Consuls of the French Repnblic, near
[ the United States of America. Dated Cape-
Francois, 13 Floreal, 6th year.
I IT was with furprire and pain, citizen, that
I I read in the papers printed in the United State,,
, a libel* against the chiefs of the French govera
' inent, attributed to the plenipotentiaries o" *he
! Federal government, and accompanying the mes
sage addressed by the President John Adams to the
Senate and House ol Representatives, the 3d of
April, 1798-
As I was at Paris it the t.'tjie of the negotiation,
and as 1 am well acquainted with h« pronofitiont
which were madt to the commissioners cf the U
n ted States, <* pfricß who was accustomed to
feeing them every day, I kold it my duty to deny
those Scandalous the publicity of
which may cause refuit* contrary to the spirit of
reconciliation which animates the two nations.
It is not by defamation, that the French Rcpub*
lie can he arretted in its vi&orioss career. Th«
friends of peace, should not look for the aceom
plifhmentof their hopes, when it shall learn, that
the commiflioner?, who were fe-.it for the pnrpofe
of re-eftabliftiinjr harmony, and terminating the
differences, which have exited between the two
governments, are wholly occupied in inteiiCng
their fellow citizens against the chilfs of the Re
public.
1 myfelf well know, that it was the intention of
the French government, to demand a contribution
from the American government, as an indemnity
for the losses which the treaty of commerce with
England (maniteft violation of neutrality, on tho
part of the Unittd States) caused to France ; but
this contribution was far the state, and not for
the members of the government, and the men who
have thought yroper to make use of the pretext,
to cast a blame on theconduffc of thefirft magis
trates of a great nation, difdofe a secret design to
hurry their fellow citizens into a war, which
would be fatal to them, in order to gratify some
private resentments, or personal views. It is not
thus, if Iraiftake not, that pacificators ought to
conduft themselves.
What man poffefTed of the least degree of com
mon sense, after the accusations brought against
Messrs. W. X. Y. Z. by the plenipotentiaries of
the Uuited States could admit the insinuation di
re&ed against the members of the French govern
ment. fcThat can be the result ?Is it peace or
war ? Such an intrigue can have no other tendency
than t» render a reconciliation more and more
difficult, and yet it was to conciliate two people,
formed to be friends, that the government of the
United States sent their commifliuners to France.
The commifiioners of the Federal government
confcfs that Meflrs. W. X. Y. Z. were not pof
fefied of any powers, and if we fupprfe for a
moment, that Meflrs. W. X, Y. Z. are not
mere imaginary beings, was it not the duty of
the commiffioßcrg to have denounced thenp to
the Directory. Unofficial individuals were as
likely to have been the agents of the cabinet of
St. James's ab any other government, would it
not therefore have teen more wife, in filch cir
cumflanccs, before so baftily publifhiog this li
bel, to have come to an explanation that might
have cleared all up ?
When a nation fmcereljr desires peace, it does
not employ itfelf in conjuring up wrongs and
producing absurd charges against the power with
which it would wish to maintain it; but, when
it desires war, it employs every means which
can render it inevitable. 44 Would you" (fays
u Machiavel) " would you that a prince or a
" people lhould lose every desire to make peace
<f or to preserve it ? Here is an infalliable meth
" od, theefTe&sof which are sure and durable ;
" render them guilty of some crime or great in
" jury towardstfceenemy with whom you would
4< wilh to hinder their reconciliation. The fear
" of the penalty, which they would be confci
" ous of having incurred, would keep all ideas
" of peace from them."
Twenty powers were leagued to annihilate
France. France hasconquered them all, and ni
granting them peace, exafted from every one
either ccflions or contributions. The United
States have broken the treaty which connected
them with France ; the violation of this treaty,
which was the fruit of the blood of Frenchmen
shed for the eftablifhinent of American indepen
dence, and a c- nfiderable sum of money furnifh
ed to the Americans to support the war, has
been of incalculable d fadvantage to the repub
lic. And now therefore, the republic thinks it
has a right to demand fatibfailion The law of
nations and the example of past times, have
served as the bills of the co»du<s\ of the French
government, and it is not now, wbe« the direc
tory advances with a sure and firm step towards
immortality, when it is furrouaded with so
splendid a crown of glory, that ftiafts thrown
by feeble hands, can reach or injure it
I am so well acquainted with France as to be
able to allure you that the People of the United"
States have many friends there, even amoffg the
chifrfs of the government, and that proportions
sincerely made, would not have been reje&ed ;
but when iiegociators carry with them fuck a
spirit as di&ated the dispatches of tha plenipo
tentiaries of the United States, we ought not
to be furpriftd if they failed in their million.
My intention, in thus addrelTing you these re
flexions. has not been to juftify. the members of
the French government; the enemies who cre
ated their glori- us labors fufliciently eulogize
them. I only wifbed to offer a freth homage of
the refpedi aud gratitude due by all Frenchrrten
to them for the services they have never ceased
to render the country.
(Signed) T. HEDOUVILLE.
* Afeaniug tbe difpatcbts frbm cur Envoys.
FAYETTEVILLE, May 12.
State of North-Carolina> )
Fayettcville bijlrift. 5
Superior Courts April Term, 1798.
The Grand Jury for the diftridfc aforefaid,
seriously and sensibly feeling the ptefent
alarming situation of the United States,
conceive themselves impelled to declare thus
publicly and on this occasion, that they
fully approve of the energetic measures
pursued by the President, as also those by
him recommended to Congress to be adopt
ed, at this important and perilous pe'lod ;
especially when the people of the United
States are openly menaced with the direfnl
effe&s and calamities of a war—a war in
their opinion totally unexpected, beca'ufc
unprovoked and unjuftifiable on any rational
and consistent grounds.
They also on behalf of themselves (and*
they have reason to believe it to be the ge
neral and undisguised sentiments of the in
haViitants of this diftri&, from whence they
are drawn together) think it their duty to
fay, that although ihey deprecate the coq
feauences inevitably originating from war ;that although they conceive it to be the
universal wi!h and ardent desire of the peq.
pie of America to be at peace with all th?
world, and to remain perfectly neutral du
ring the present existing wars and diflentions
in Europe—Yet implicitly relying on the
wisdom, virtue, moderation and fortitude,
and having entire confi ! enc« in the fidelity,
patriotism and independent spirit of the
different officers employed in the admini
stration of the several branches of the federal
government —they wilt at all times be ready
to ffcppott any exertions in behalf of that
free and happy government, under whose
mild laws and beneficent influence they
have experienced such ample and manifold
bleffii'gs.
Isaac Jachfon, R. J. Steele,
Samuel Murley, Martin,
For and with the unanimous consent
of the reft of the Grand Jury.
FOREIGN ARTICLES.
DECENT OM ENGLAND.
Bourdeix, 20th March. The movement
of troops towards the coast is mire active
than ever ; 200,000 men are now alfembling
from Rocbfort to Fir filing On the other
fide, the prefiing of nil the feainen, even the
crews "f pr,ivateers, who would not be em
ployed till the last moment ; the arresting ill
ihfl Englifil found at the different ports, and
l.iftiy, the orders given to all the officers to
join their corps, feeni to indicate that the
trial of a descent is not far distant. Per
haps it will commence by a partial one on
Jre! .id, a conjecture not impr obable, when
it it announced by good politicians, that an
ilifurreftion has begun, or is on the point
of breaking out in that country : It rs un
derll od to be an easy talk for the French
to make ttieinfelves nia/lers of that Island,
in which there are scarcely enough of British
troops, to reftrai . the numerous aflociations
of the partisans of independence ; and that it
would be impossible for England, threaten
ed at the fame time on her own territory,
to fend them any succours We are equal
ly fenlible how much the pofieffion of that
island, and the fright that such an event
would prodr.ee in England, would facilitate
the' fvibfcquent operations. We may, in
deed, fay, that it would insure the success
of the GRAND DESCENT.
To these pr®jc£ts—to these hopes—will
no doubt be objefted, the dificulty of con
quering the maiiiie-a-f England : these diffi
culties ire certainly too real, but after the
bold enterprifee executed in the course of the
war—after all that has been donebeyendjthe
rules of human prudence or forefight, who
wiilldare to determine, at this day, how far
it is possible to go ? In default of force,
are there not chances from constancy and
canning ?—Has not he who attacks a thou
sand advantages over him who defends him
felf ? Doesj not the ignorance of the part
to be firft attacked oblige the enemy to di
vide his force, and weaken himfelf at every
point, while the. former, ntafter of all his'
resources, studying to deceive his adversary,
ar d ready to profit by his firft mistake, mul
tiplies his means, and varies his plans with
every occasion—For example, when the
whole extent of a coafl of 200 leagaes (hall
be Covered with squadrons, loaded with
troops, who will insure the English that
one of them (hall not elude their watch, or
that they flrtllnot be drawn offbyfalfe at
tacks from the pointof real danger ?—Light
vefieJs "ill inform them of our motions, but
have'not telegraphs, established all along our
coasts, the advantage of a much fwifter con
veyance incalculable advantages which will
give to our line of attack a rapiuity and a
concentration w'sich their line of defence
cannot possess ?
FRONTIERS of RUjSIA, Feb. 10.
The emperor has just pablilhed an Imperial
Ukaie, his own hand, wherein lie for
bids, under heavy penalties, after the firft of
this month, the wearing of frocks [a coat after
the French fafhion] flannel round
hats, ft-.cei tied with firings, half boots, large
cravats arid pantaloons, &c.
[That the fjhhns of the republican French
are as fVivolo.ui and despicable as these republi
cans themfclves, is generally allowed. How ib
furd then is it to imitate them ! The emperor
of Kullia h»s set an example, which is worth
potiee ; and it merits the confideratipn of the
falhioaabie world, whether it is not equally un
worthy to put on one part of the livery of Haves
as another. The bl >ody tri color being now
confined to Filles de Joye and bullies, why fbould
any other emblem of the fame deeene'rate origin
be retainctiby the friends offthe United States? j
Notice is hereby Given,
TO the creditors of Charles Hamilton, tha*
he has applied to the Court at Heading
BerJts countt, for the benefit of a law of this
commonwealth, providing relief for insolvent
<lebtar?, the court have ordered, and do appoint
the Monday Anguft tourt next, to near
the creditors of the said Charles Hamilton at
the court house in the borough of Reading.
may 23 3t
This Day Publijhed,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41 Chefnut-ftreet,
( Price 45 rents.) ■
OBEDIENCE
TO THE
LAWS of GOD,
THE SURE AND INDISPENSABLE
DEFENCE of NATIONS.
A DISCOURSE,
Delivered in the Second Presbyterian Church,
in the City of Philadelphia, May 9th, 1798
Kt-v g the day appointed by the President of
the Units.d States, to be observed as a Sea
son for Solemn Humiliation, Falling and Prayer.
By AJbbel Green, D. D.
Pajliif of the afurefaid Church.
Likewifr, j U a publ lh.d, a Sermon* on the
fame ojvafioir, by the Rev. Mr. Abercroinbie.
3t
A ftw boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold rheau—-by
Mordcsai Lewis.
msv 17 d:,w
TO BE~SOLD, by
John Nixon iff Co.
A quantity of very excellent LGGW OOD
NOW LANDING AT IHKIR WHARF
maf io, jawtf
; By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 24.
By the Bourdtaux papers, from which
we have been detailing the last f-veral days,
it appears that the 1 x.cutive Dire&ory, in
the fitt ng us March 7, confidcring that the
honor and dignity of the Republic require
a severe observance of the pi inciple which
excludes every Frenchman-born,(rom theprivi
lege of repr.f nting, in France, any other
government, either as confnlary or diploma
tic agent :—decreed, that Vanheeand Eme
ry, Frenc 1 citizens, whose exequatur as
consuls to Sweden, at Dunkirk and Calais,
had been furreptitiovffy obtained from the
French government in the 4th Republican
year, fliould forthwith cease to exercise their
refpeftivc functions—and the decree was at
thefame timedeclarrdtoextcndto al! French
men txecuti: g coi fular powers in the differ
e-t parts of the Republic in behalf of any
other foreign nation whatever.
The French seem to refpeft the Swedish
and Damih veflfels as those of America.
U ider t: e article of miniftere de la marine
in a l'aris paper of March 13, we find the
following :
" The Ant privateer of Marseilles, capt,
Piron, has taken into Barcelona, a ]_)a;iilh
ftiip, called the Providence, from Dublin,
with coal, fifli, carilffn asd hardware. The
Runner pri ateer, cf Marseilles, R ymond
h»6 tL i<en, in virtue of the law of 29th Ven
tofel ''t, and sent into Carthager:a, fix Sive
dilh, A iiferican, Danifli and Ragrtfao."
Indiscriminate piracy upon neutrals, fe«mj
to be the order of the day.
The Pope took with him to Tufcany,
two millions of crowns. He is now up
wards of 80, and if he is ecmsmical, this
may support him through the remnant of
his time.
Lanfington, May 18.
\_The following is an extraS of a letter of the
above date, to the editor ofs the Gazette.]
" Last Thursday morning three men, one
of the name of Newell Narioe, merchant of
New-York, in eroding in a canoe, was un
fortnnately loft near' Still Water. It was
very dark and blowing hard—being acquain
ted with Mr. Narine, I endeavoured to pre
vail 011 him to (lay all night, which he de
clined, faying he was in a hurry so get
home. One of the bodies, took up ntxt
day, from papers found on him, is John
Gold, from Canada, and has the appear
ance of a gentleman."
[The letter mentions other particulars
refpe&ing Mr. Narine, which will be com- ■
municated to his friends, on application at
the office of this Gazette.]
BOSTON, May 21
By the arrival of Capt.Griffin, from Ali
ca»t, we are informed, that since the last
decree of the French relative to Britilh pro
duce and manufaftures ; the number of pri
vateers in the Mediterranean, in the Bay of
Biscay, and on the coasts of Spain and Por
tugal, has been very much increased ; from
the port of Malaga only, the number was
about 3J ; they capture and fend into port
almost every vcffel they meet with, and few,
very few escape condemnation—the smallest
article of Britilh produce or manufa&uic,
found on board, or the most trifling error in
their papers, is with them a fufficient reason
to make good prize of veflel and cargo ; in
deed they are often condemned on pretexts
'he most frivolous, unjust and vexatious,
which could be imagined—One vessel was
condemned for having a few plates, part of
the cabin furniture, of English manufafture
—Another for a few handkerchiefs—A
Swedish vessel from Carthagen a, with Bran
dy, bound to feme other port in Spain was
made prize of because by accident it was
mentioned in one of the bills of lading, that
part of the cargo was foraccountof a merch
ant living in Oporto ! they condemned her,
as exprefTed in the decree of condemnation
for having propertyon board belonging to a
port in Portugal—a Britijh Province ! !
The Danes have two or three frigates,
andas many brigsconftantly convoying their
vefTels up and down the Mediterranean, yet
more Danes and Swedes were sent into port
and fewer cleared than of any other flag ;
jull before capt. Griffin failed the Danifli
captains of the frigates received orders to
bring too every French privateer they might
meet with, andexamine her papers, to ascer
tain if Ihe had inftruftions to plunder ; if the
privateers do not instantly comply they are
to be fired ifito, and to be funk if they refill.
'; ■ n
iMew Publication.
A Sensible, Seasonable and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written hy a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
What our Profpeds ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second ltreets,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chcfnut fir
(Price three fixtsenths of a dollar)
Fxtradt from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquishing one right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new concession
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid fubmifiion invites depredation—Where
will this end ? What offering will gorge the
appetite of plunder, or appease the rage
of unrefifted hostility ? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
and ins lence, no free nation has ever be
fore endured them."
li'u U D S
Forwarded to B A L T I M ORE,
CVER 1. AND,
Via Elkton, on reasonable terms—by
Levi HoUingftuorlh & Son.
ir.iy 14 e«d6t
Xfjc dsa3Ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Mat 25
Ext raft of a letter from a House of the fr/l in
formation, tinted Bordeaux, \ ub Mi rth, '9 y .
'■ As to the reagnanimitjr and generality
of th> rulers nf the great nation towards
private persons, while in the great chaos of
national Vevolution and the fupplica.t!on of
states a d empires, we fear the just lamen
tation of individuals will go unheard.—
What can a poor trader of Philadelphia,
represented by an humble consul, expect,
after feeing three extra rdinary envoys and
plenipotentiaries, five or lix months at the
gates of tht directorial palace, without ad
mifiioii to an audience, and 1 at a time when
the plenipotentiaries mult be daily warned
of additional (hacks and wounds of the long
injured and oppressed; commerce cf their na
tion ? It such a melancholy fail could give
any relief to the neceflitated individual who
is kept out of h s funds, it would be some
what less a/Biding to relate it. Paying
debts, barkening to diltrefs and justice, is
not the fafhion ot the timy«. Levying con
tributions, giving law, and humiliating na
, tions, is the theme of the ,day ; and while
: proud Albi n and the Hanoverian race
tremble ; while Rome and the children of
Fabius are under chaltifement for support
ing the sceptre of o£taviuj and the crimes
! of Nero, can the- well-born brethren of Mr.
I Jay expeft lo escape i
There is nothing new on the fubjeft of
our negociatisnsat Paris ; the envoys are still
there without ever having had an audience,
and it is generally thought their million will
,bc ineffcitu.il. I participai; in this opinion ;
I and nnlefs the current of French success, or
the politics of America undergoes fame
change, it will be impofiible to forefee the
ifue of the present discord between the two
nations."
ExtraS of a letter from his Excellency John
Sevier, governor of the State of Teunejfee to
a gentleman in this city ; dated
" Knoxuille, May .]tk, 1798.
" I have had, and still have confident hopes
that every prudent, and honorable measure have
been adopted far the purpose of bringing about
a reflsrationof karmony and friendfhip between
the United States and the French nation. Should
America be obliged to resort to arms as the last
alternative ; however difagreeablethe fame may
appear to be; be assured, Sir, tfith perfea con
fidence that I (hall with the good people of this
state lend every aid and assistance in our power
to pretefl and support the honor and dignity of
our country."
The above declaration does great honor to governor
Sevier. How great must be the disappointment and
chagrin of our enemies when they discover that union
is kthe standard under which the American dates
ha»c resolved to rally ; and thit one ieritiment per
vades the whole. Peace ii good j but independence
is better. 1
MR. FEN NO,
By giving the following extraft of a let
ter received from Pitt&iirgh, this day, a
place in your paper, you wiill oblige a
CUSTOMER.
" J u< %e M is proceeding on from
county to county, making violent attacks
on all the friends of government. Whether
this is an electioneering scheme, or not, T
am not able to determine—perhaps Jte con
cludes it will point out his political charae
ter more clearly, and make his calling and
eleftion furc ; for he well knows that these
men would never have voted for hirri, so that
he loses no votes by quarrelling with them,
and may keep the other party more firmly
on his fide. At Weftmoreland he had a
violent quarrel with Mr, Johu Woods,where
it ran so high that it had like to have be
come general. At Walhington, this week,
he made an attack 011 Mr. Addifon (Dis
triCt Judge) in which we hear he abused
him in a mod violent manner ; and, though
not in the Court-house, threatened to have
him committed, said he was a Biitilh agent,
£tc- &c."
*** The articles copied from this Ga
zette into the Aurora, as translations from
French papers, are not translations, but in
troductory observations on translated arti
cles which immediately follow-—had the
editor of the Aurora extended his extraft,
his readers would have had a chance of
feeing the justice of those obferyation -. In
the manuscript copy the translated articles
were marked with quotations, which were
inadvertently omitted in the publication.
In a file of French papers, from the 12th
February to the 19th March, we do not
find any thing to invalidate the opinion that
the Fr'.nch press continues in the fame
fliackled situation in which it was placed at
the subversion of the coaHitution on the
fourth of September last.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The Danifli brig Friscdfliip, Joh« Pritcbet
maftcr, arrived from St. Thomas' at Wilming
ton, Delaware, fell in with the brig Active of
Philadelphia in lat. 34, long. 73, 28, hatches
open and nobody on board, appeared to be in a
ight set of ball aft—owing to the fiarmy weather
did not board her.
Superfine flour at St. Thomas' 9 dollars per
barrel, and other provisions in proportion. The
Ihtp , MtKever, of Philadelphia, was
beating i.ito St. Thomas' as capt P. came out.
Arrived at Alexandria, brig George, Ver
ry, from Salem ; {hip Smallwood, John
son, Martinique.
Capt. Verry's Log-book states, that in
lat. 38, 30. lan. 70, 30, he was brought
too by the privateer Jean Bart, Peter La
Fitte, matter, mounting 14 gnss, 12 of
which were 9 pounders, and 150 men
Captain La Fitte put on board the brig,
a number of men belonging to the prizes ha
had taken, after which the privateer made
fail fleering S. E. with the fiiip Diana un
der ber lee and ca . fatii Harriibn and the
j fleward on board. The number of men ta
. ken on board tht George was 27.
The following is a lilt of (hips by the
above privateer with their principal offi
cers and passengers :
Ship Merchant, from New-York bound
| to Brillol, taken when fhs was 24 hours out
from New-York— capt. A. Rofl'eter, with
his wife and child, Mr. E. Smith, chief
mate in the brig George.
Ship Thomas, capt. John Holland, from
Liverpool, out 70 day?, taken a few hours
af'erthe Merchant (mate left on hoard fiejc.)
Ship Diana, from New-York mounting
8 guns, bound to Demerara, taken 48
hours after leaving N. York, Wm. Harri
fon, captain ; Wm. Clerk, chief-mate ;
Mr. Blake, fupcrcargo ; Mr. Jacob Boos,
furgeoji j John Hanton, boatswain j Hen
■Y Taylor, gunner; John Sinclair, second
carpenter—paflengtr, Mr. W. Paikinfon,
(capt. Harrifon and the Iteward sent with
the (hip.)
The fnbfctibers defirt to express their
thanks and gratitude to capt. Isaac Verry,
of the brig George, for the kind treatment
and polite attention they experienced from
him during thier passage to this port—hav
ing been put on board his veflcl by the
French privateer Jean -Bait.
Asa Pvofleter, captain of the (hip Merchant
ofNew-York.
Jane Rofl'eter, pafTenger in do.
Ebenezer Smith, firlt mate of do.
John Holland, captain of the (hip Thomas,
of Ph ladelphia.
William Blake, firft mate of the (hip Diana
cf New-York-
Mr. Clake, fupcrcargo in do.
W. Parkinfou, paflenger ia do.
Jacob Boos* surgeon of do.
Nov-York, May 24.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Ship Penelope, Morrell, Brillol 56
Barque Dependence, Duncan, Philadel
phia 24
Brig Sally, Wheton, Liverpool & Cork 57
Peggy, Harris, Havannah
Snow Pallas, Wyetli, Port-au-Prince
Schr. Hiram, Childs, Charleston
Republican, Mar/h, N.Providence 12
Sloop Betsey, Hunt, Petit Guave
Riling Sun, Betts, Antigua 20
THE CONVOY.
By the Penelope, capt. Morrell, 56 days from Bris
tol, arrived yeftcrday, Friday, May 18, parted con
voy in long. 63, 30. lat. 35, N. fleering W. 3. W.
wind at N. li.—Left 23 (aii with the Commodore ;
Ships—Severn, Swan, Alliance, America, New-
York.
Ships—Clothier, Manchefler, barque Adiiana, Phi
ladelphia.
Ships—Nancy, Packet, Delight, Boston.
Ships—Sidney, Carliflc, Aftive, krig Ranger, Bal
timore.
Ships—Carolina, Maria, brig Paflas, Chailefton.
Ship Mary, barque Neptune, Portsmouth.
Brig Helen, York, Virginia.
Ship Accepted Mason, Wifcaffett.
Ship Juno, Wilmington.
Ship Difpatch,of New.York, and ship Eleven Sons,
of New-London, parted convoy in a gale on the 16th.
Brig Betsey, taken by the French, and re-taken by
the St. Albans among the Western Islands*
The following American veflels left Antigua in
company with capt. Gibbs, arrived yctlerday, under
convoy of the Matilda fr gate :
Ship Townfend, Hilton, Wifcaflet.
Bri^s —Eilex, Windsor, Charlcttou; Hiram, Hum
phreys, Conneflicut; Abigail, Terry, North Caroli
na.
Schooners —William and Henry, Butler, and Bet
sey, Cox, North Carolina ; Sukcy and Polly, Crick
law, and Olive Branch, Parker, Virginia ; Olivia,
Hull, Conne&icuti
Lift ol veflels at Antigua, when capt. Gibbs failed :
Ship , Shoemaker, of New-York, con
demned ; Minerva, of do. txce&ed will
be condemned ; Pigou, Clay, Philadelphia, from !
the East-Indies, re cap ured, paid io,oocl. salvage. J
Bri^s —Kuflell, William, Charleston, condemned ;
because theXaptain was Irish ; Julia, ttrown, New-
York, condemned; Triton, Brunfwick, from Ham
burgh, bound to St. Bartholomews, condemned for
having on beard 1000 pruning hooks; Panther, of
BoP.ou, tor trial ; Neutrality, under Dan'fh colors,
ditto; James, Wheeler,' New-York, ditto; Hunter,
Duncan, Titford, ditto; Cent2ur,~— — ,Po»tfmcu - h,
foriaivage; Han*h, , Hallowell, tor salvage,
captain wounded, re-taken by the Teazer • Sally,
Schooners—Ha wk,Campbell, New-Yo<k,condemn
ed lor being Irish ; William and Mary, Brand, Port
mouth, to fail for home on the 13th May. with the
English fleet aDd convoy.
The following prvatee s belong to Antigua :—Peg
gy, 8 ; I.oui'a, B'idget, 4 ; Portland's prize l ,
10; Tickler, 12; Rambler, 6; Tcazer, 8; Gala
tea, 8 ; French brig, ot 16 gtns, arid a sloop, both
taken.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably mora than Half Drawn.
Draws tzuice a <u>€t?k, every Monday & Turf day
I ICK.ETS For Sale, Seven Oollais each, at
i WILLIAM BLACKMTRN's Lottery
and Brokers office, iMo. 64 Sou
where cheek books are kept for examination Lnd
registering ia this*, City of Washington No. 2.
and PateiTon Lotteties and information where
Tickets may be had in molt of the Lotteries au
thorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
State of the Wheel*
One prize of 10,000 dollars *o,ooo
Five 4,000 aoyooo
Two a,coo 4,000
Nine i,oco 9,000
Nineteen 500 9,50*
Forty-fur 200 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price 0/tick
ets will loon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,c00 dollar prizes that remain in the whe«l
until the last day of drawing.
Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office,
may 24 w&stf
To be Sold, in Burlington,
laimediattly oppofit<i the wharf on the river De
laware,
A Large new two story brick House, and Lot
flirty icet in front and onchimdred deep—
The House confills-of two large parlours, one 17
by 21, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
well finilhcd garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well finifhed and in pcrfedt order,
lmniedistce polfeffion will he given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and ffcew the
premii'es.
may 24 3U2W
TO Bri SOLD,
Bv John Nixon & Co.
A few hhds. of excellent St. Cioix SUGAR and
RUM, vl>:ch will behndert at Will rgs and Fran
cis' whajt next Niord iy, tKe iiil inflant.
may 16. d.stcotf
: wtitfrtnntiJi ana': wr»****a
GRENADIERS.
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Veion«
teer (Company of Grenadiers, May 22,
Refolvcd, thai a Committee of five mem
bers be appointed for the purpose of re
ceiving the applications of persons disposed
to join the Corps
Pursuant to the foregoing refolutioh, all
tliofe who are inclined to become members
of the Company, are jequefted to make ap*
plication, immediately, to either of the un*
derligned.
Thomas Barton Zanlzlnger, 239, High ft. -j 0
Daniel Murgati oyd, 11, Walnut ft- I
Stephen R. ykompfon, 6, Liurel court, >jj
George Harrifon, Chefnut ft. I |
John H'ard Feirno, No. 119, Cliernut !i j O
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
An adjourned meeting of the Troop will
be held at the house of Barnabas M'Shane,
on Friday evening the 25th instant, at 7
o'clock, when Gentlemen are particularly
requested to attend, as an additional
nation of new members will be Hallotteil
for. JOHN MORRELL, Capt.
Macpherfon's Blues.
AN adjourned meeting of the Blues will he
held at the house of Mr. Dunwoody, on
Mon;iay next at 6 o'clock P. M. Th» gentle
man eompofinp the fame are delked to be punc
tual in their attendance, as the committee ap
pointed at the lafl meeting will then nlake their
report. By Order.
Richard Renjhaw, Junr. Sec'y.
may 24
FOR SALE " '
BY THt SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, white Cities
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Erncrtics
Gorahs Mew Sannas
Mamoodies Penialcoes
Tickiries Baftas
RonvJls CoJlas
Do-eas Tanjebs
Chintz M ii.la Cloths
Baui Gazzies Carwah Cioths
j4n eUgant affijrtmtnt of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR.
COTTON and GINGFR
MorJccai Leivis.
may 25. dw jaw2\v
foTT~sale7 "
THE NEW AND REMARKABLE £AST SAILINO
m a mh l a H,
TOH NJ. W HID »E E, Mijler,
NOW lying at Jcjie & Habere
Wain'i wharf—her length -s 69 feet 6 mchee—<
breadth, so feet, 5 inches, depth 8 feet 6 inch.-
meafure*l®4 65-95 tons, and is completely piere'd
and fitted to carry 14 guns. For terms <tppiy to
GEORGE PLUMSTED.
No 166, South Front Street*
Liheivife from on board /"aid Schooner,
A Quantity of Peas.
Kiln dryed Indian Meal in barrels, and 439 bar
rels of Ship Stuff.
ALSO,
120 Tierces of Rice,
Landing from on board the Schooner Elizabeth,
Captain Hatch.
miy 45 4tawiw
The Rev. Dr. Bi.air's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
Is juit Publilhed, by
James Watt/us, & Co.
And may also be had of the principal bookfeilers.
The firllvolumeoftheWEEKL? Magazine
\ With an appendix containing tr~ P .-Ldent's
mefiage and the idifpatches is now pubtifhed*
and may be had of the prin
cipal bookfeilers in Philadelphia- by George
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somervile
New-Ybrk - —A few copies of the Difparclus
may be had separate.
may z* eodtf
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. » 2,7 Chefnut-ftrcet,
where Titles ;o Heal eftar<*s are examined
and Briefs thereof and Conveyances of every
kind, prepared. may 53 SRwjw
FOR SALE,' 1
At the Store of Jesse bf Rojet Walk,
On Spruc£ llreer Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. casts
Li Hi on Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16. eotf
OX BEEF. ~
100. Barrels ) of B-ef of best quality, put
5c half Barrels ) U P with carefor loug v<>y.tgcs«
100 Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of C Tongues.
WINES.'
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Calks of Liibon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger s Wharf.
may 4 eodtf
TO BE LET,
And Pofleffion given Immediately.
THAT "well known stand called, Small?*
t-a/ern, sign of the Black-horse at the eaeft
end of Bedford. This ft and is attended with
many advantages \ there are two houfcs, the
one stone and the other si ame adjoining each
other f well fini(h?d and upon a very convenient
plan ; the /tabling new and large and a puma at
the door—besides, there are but two taverns in
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr. John And:rfon i
of t'be tb-zun of Lcdfjrd,
1 may 11. lawow
Joseph Ricardd,
OF this City, Merchant, has assigned his pro
perty for the beiie£t of his Crecitorv,tf»'' j :.r; *
C. Fisher, Samuel W. Fiiher, and Thomas Wiifun
AU persons who have demands are x-i
---quefted to furnifh their aceouuts without delay—
and thoi'e indebted-tji make immediate payment to
the SuMVribers, "sfdiing Affignec®.
James C. o Samuel W. Fifter.
No. 13, ArchStret't,
march M 4*tawtfTreasury Department,
March 19, 179 8 * J
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, N
THA i'propoW. will be received at the Office ot nj
the Secretary of the Treasury nnt.l the « P i- A
raxion of tbe i;th day of July next o ~
the supply of all rations which may be «q uire<l tl
fee the ufeofthe United State ..fromthe irft day'ol si
OAober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive. at the places and within
the didria hereafter mentioned, viz. AtOlwego; p
at Niagara ; at Prefque lfle; at Michflimackinac j
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittiburgh -, at L<: Beuf; at
Cincinnati -, at Greenville -, at Picque Town and An
Loramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
anee ; at any nlac : below For: Defiance on the Mi
ami River ti. Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon or. the River Wabafh • at Maffac; at any
place or places on the raft fide of the River Miml
(if pi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places 011 the
eaftfideof the Mi(£llip»i River below the mouth
oi the River Ohio totht southern boundary of the A»
State of Kentucky, and with"',' the said State ;at (
Knoxvillc, Tellieo Block Honfe, and at all other An
Polls in the State of Teimeffee; at any place or c
places on the eafl fide of the River Mifiiflipp', An
low the southern boundary of the State of Tenner
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States. t
If supplies (hall he required for any pot" or ,
place, not mentioned in this notice.all fuchfupp ie> (
foall be fumifhed at prices proportioned to thole to .
the posts beiore recited, as may be on l (
ween th: United States and the contraSor. W -
The rations to be supplied to consist of th- sol- (
lowing article*, viz. An
Oue pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or b«con
Half a jilV ot rum, brandy or pcr
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts (
of vinegar, two pound* of soap, ( ra tions
one pound of candles J . .
The ration, are to b; furnilhed in fiich quuitities,
as th.-t there (hall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the conlumption of the troop, at Ai
MichUimacktnae, Detroit, Niagara, and Olwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other polls, for the term of at lead three
months in advance, in good and wholefonae provi
sions, if the fame fha'.l be required. It Ist® be un
derstood, that the con trader is to be at Ue ex
p-Dce and riCc of i«aing the supplies to the troops
at each pofi, and that all toffe. faftained by the de
■redations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, stall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or deftroyel, on
tbedepofit'onsof two or more persons of crenita
b echaraaers, andtf.ecertifica'eof a ccmmiflioia
ci officer, ascertaining the circunaftances of the
kfs and the amount of the articles for which com-
petifation shall be claimed. ,
The priviledge is refervedto the Umted State,
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furni'led under the proposed contraa, shall be
iifu-d, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contraS now in force have
been consumed. 1 „ „
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tbe Treasury.
march 17. »""i:ly_ {
Germantown and Reading Turn- , i
pike Road Company.
THE Subscribers Commiffioaers appointed by ;
an Aa ef ACembly of this Cemmonwealth
entitled," An aa to enable the Governorofthis
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Koid from the city of Ph -
ladeiphia, through Gcrmamown, by the rout '
of Ckefnut Hill, to the twelve mile stone on j
the Reading Road, and thenca to Reading iu the !
county of Berks,hereby give notice, that books j
jre provided as the law directs, and that ax .
will proceed to receive subscriptions for the com-1
panv's stock on the iStb, 19th, and ;oth days '
of May next, at tfce City Hall, in the city of
Phil-.dtlphii,at the T.vern of VVilliara Buchois,
iu Germantown, >ll the Tavern of Jacob B?rr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the cocnty o; Montgomery, cn the faine days,
trrm ten o'tlock in the morning, until two o*
el ;:k,P. M- on eachday, when and where cer- |
tai oftr.c Comm.ffionera will attend to receive
fublcriptions accordingly.
' april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET t ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOW ER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollar, to be paid on each
share at the time of fubferibing.
April 1 ~—endt:ov!
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE Sabfcrib?r» beiag tbe »erfbm firft named
in the Letters Patent, issued by tbe Gov«roor
of-tbi* Common weaLh, by virtue of tbe Ad of Gen
eral Affembfy «f tbc»6tbult. for incorpora:ing the
Comoany —hereby give notice agreeable to the 3d
fedionof the said law, that they have appointed, aud
hereby request a meeting of the fubfcnberj at the
Stat: House in the City of Philadelphia, 00 the thirty
firft day of this infant. May, at ten o'clock in tbe
fo;enoon, for thepurpofe* mentioned in the said 3d
fedion, which i« hereafter published for the inform
atioa ot the Stockholders.
Richard Peters^
John Perott,
Matt.hew M l Connelly
William Sheaf,
George Bickbam,
William Nichols.
Philadelphia, tft Miy, 1798-
SeSion 3. bt it (wr'tur eniScd »y tit mdtortti
mftriidi. That the fix PerCon.firft named io the Let
ters Patent, (hall as soon as conveniently may be af
ter fealingthe fame, give notice io two or more pub
lic News Papers in Philadelphia, oaewhereof (hall
be'in the German Language of a timeend place by
them to be appointed, not left than thirty days flora
the time of issuing ihe firft notice, at which tunc and
olace thefaid fubferibers (hall piocecd to organize the
Lj Corporation and (hall choose by a majority of
votes of the said subscribers by ballot, 10 be deliveicd
in Person or by Proxy, duly authorized—one Presi
dent, twelve DircSors, one I ieufu er, ind such other
officers as they (hall think necessary toconduft tbebu
fu c j „( the said Comp'n 4 for one year, and until o
"her officers (hallbechofen, and may make such bye
lewi, rules, orders »d regulations, not incoofiftent
with the law. of thisCommoowe»Uh, as lhall be ne
cc (fary for the well ordering the aflairs of the said com
any; Provided always, that r.o person (ball have
more th.-n fifty vote, at any e'tflion or in determining
a«v qu-f. on jnfirg at such meetings whatever num
ber of lharei be or (he 'be eoitled to, and thrt each
pci too shall be ei'titled to one vote for e very (hare
by him ot her held under the said number.
advertisement.
*T - HEREAS the fufcfcriber and his wife Jane
Hodgk'nfon, haveby mutual consent agree®
to live separate and apart from each other from
be-1 ar.d board, these are therefore to forewarn all
perfens from tmf:icg her or. gy account, as by
contraa fr.cis to fupporthetteli ;cr thefiittre, acd
lam determined not tovay any d.U of her con-
SAMUEL KODGKIXSOS.
may y: *jt I_w
treasury department,
MARCH I, I 79 8 - Fi
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, Q
IN pursuance of the A& of C.ngrefs faffed on the Oath day of J-'T thousand level,.hundredand |k.
lunety-fcven entitled «' An AS lading duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the , P
A a pal. Jon the fifteenth day of December, one thoufaad fever. hundred and j ™
'■ \I, A& to podpone for a limited time the commencement of the oatie. imposed by e 3
tied "An Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after die
firft day of Jaly eufainj, the fcvcral Stamped Duties h.reafter enumerated, „dlb«lev«d audcollcc
ted throughout the United- States. I 8c
For every kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or fteet or piece of Paper, upon which fhill be
written or printed any or cither of the iullrumeuti or writing,iollow»g-to wit: y
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - •«_ „r S
Any Licence to preilice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advoeatt or Proflor, in a«y Court of the
that a Certificate in acy one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office., fha'.l Co far aa relates to the payment of the
doty afarel'aid, be a fufficient admi(Tr>n in all the Couris of tbe Unued
States, foreach and every of thefaid offices. p
Any Grant rr Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the Lnued States ~
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4 If,
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent,
cept for lands granted for military services) " " " 1 '
Any Charter-Pany, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receiptor discharge foror on accountof anyLegacyfeftby aav Wdlora
ther testamentary inflrument.orfor any (hare or part ofa perfowl estate di
vided bv force ot anv statute of diftnbuti.ns other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person decease*. the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Doltara,and lhall not exceed the value of One Hun- t
Whet,' the'lmoust thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and «
fnall not exceed five hundred dolhrs, - r " , 5 °
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fare of i .
Any Policv of Inlurance or inflrsment in eature thereof, on any Cup, veflel or
Roods insured from one difhia to another in .the United States, 3J
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whicfc
Insurance is made (ball not exceed five hundred dollars, - -J I 1
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I I.
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that {hall pals the feaW anjr
Court, Htherthan such as it maybe the duty of the C.erk of such Court to
funiifh for the ufeofthe United States or some particular state, - J°
Any Jlon J, bill (ingle or ptaal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, prom: [lory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any Bate, or for their
ofe refpeftively, - - - * "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dc.lars, -
If abo« one hundred dollars aad not exceeding five hundred dol.ars, aj
If tbove five hundred dollars and not exc«ding o»e thoufaad dollars, 5®
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - ~ . _ , 175
Prrvidid. that if any bonds or notes (hail be payable aj or within fisty days, |
such bonds or notes shall be fubjeft to only two fifth part, of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - i ... I
' If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred do.lars, - 4
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding 6ve hundred d jllai s, lo
; If above live hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaad dollars, io
: If above one thousand dollars, - - * " , 3°
' Any Note. ilTued bv the ban!:, now elUblifhcd, or that may hereafter be el.ab
liibed within the' United States, other thin the no'as of such of the laid banjes
* , s (hall agree to an annual compoSrion, of one per centum on the annual di
ll vidends made by Inch Banks, to their Stockholders relpeflivcly, according to
e the following scale. - - " ~, " " „
e On all note, not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all note, above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - t " - - - 1
On all note, above five hundred doHars, - - *
Any Protefl or other Notarial aft, - * " "
" i Any Letter ef Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
| rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
' performed in the late war, - r,"r **
J A&r Certificate cr Debtntare for drawback of Culloras or duties, for leis than
■ five hundred dollars, - - - '
< For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thonfand dollar?, J
r ! for more than two thousand dollars, - '
* Anv note or biU of lading for goods or merchandize to he exported,
Ut : Jf from one diftriA to another diftriil of the United States, not being in the
fame State,
, If from the United States to any foreign port or place, 15
t Anv Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efTsfls, made 'nany
lX cafc reqniredbylaw. (except in cafe, of goods and chattels diflrained for
"■ rent or txxe., and foods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inforance Corapany, «f a share m the Bank of
. the United Stat-s, or of any State or other Bar. h, *
' If above twtn y dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
7' If above one hundred dollar., , , * S
. If under twenty dollar., at the rate of ten cents for one tmdred dollars,
in ' 11.
r». The duties aforefaid will be collcded and received by the Sapervifore, Infpeaors aud other Officers
0 of InfpeSion, in thefeveral DiftriA., Surveye and D.v.Son, of United ktates and by (uch other
cr " perfon s a.(haUfromt.timeberpecUlly appointed and employed by the Sapervifors of Diflrifis for
lve that purpose.
The Super*ifers of thefeveral Dißrias will, prior to the firft day of July ertfuing, and as soon .s
mav be pt aaicahle, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any qnant.ties or parcels ot Vt km, Parch
ment or PaDer with any cf the rates of duties before enumerated, 011 payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Snpervilor, Infpeaor Officer of Infpea.on,
l« *. - S»-P. S&XSZZSf&vp.
tie day amd fear
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of lb, Trta/ury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an z£i of Congfcfs passed on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a£l laying duties ou fUmped tcl
w lum, parchment aad paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount fit the rate of seven and o*ie half
per Centum, will be allowed by rtie Supervilors
or Infpetftars refpe&ively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who miy p ur "
chafe at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
m.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents foreach skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eaeh fkiti of
Vellum of medium Gze, which may be fumifh
ed at 'he expense of the United States aad pro
portiorcally tor any lefler quantity.
Given under my band, at Philadelphia, tbe
day andyeir abovementivred.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tbe Treasury.
To be Lety
(And poffeißon given on the ifl of May)
A genteel three ftoTy brick House,
21 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buiWlngs
and stables, at prefeut in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third flrect.
April 1. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
f Price 2 J Cents J
Refie&ions on Monroe's View
01 THE CONDUCT OF TBS EXECUTE
As publidted ia the
GAZETTE of *he UNITED STATES,
Under the lignature of
SCIPIO,
In taVich tbe Commercial Wax fare of France is traced
to tbe French Faclion in this Country, as iu Source,
and ib: Motives 9/ Offrjlthn y
Just Publilhed,
By W. YOUNG, beokfellcr, Second-flreet,
the corner of Chefnut ftrect,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWtOM,
LONDON.*
A new edition, in 9 vols price 7$ dols. neat-
1 7 bound, containing letters of Oraicren and
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of eccleGafbcal his
tory, sermons, media h, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and the life of Eliza Cunningham.—
Each of these parts may be had feparatc, and
fdeh as have been supplied with W. Young's
edition in 6 vols. may, by speedy application, be
furniihed with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols, at
dols.
jilfo, latety Pull'ijhed.
Baxter's Saint s Reft, abridged by Faw- dols.
cett, iamo at 1
Beveridge'sprivate thoughts,a parts 12mo 75
ChriAian (the) Parent, nmo 50
(the) Remembrancer, iamo 75
Christian world unmalked, do 6i\
Dickenfon's (of New-Jersey) familiar
letters, 12 mo &7^
Doddrige's rife and progress, ißmo 50 <s
sermons on education, nmo 44
fermonstoyoungperfons, do 624
on regeneration, ißmo 81®
Davies sermons —2 vols.Bvo 4
Home's commentary on the book of
Psalms, 1 15
ditto 2 vols Bvo 25©
a zvork highly admired by all <wbe ha-vt
bad the advantage of perusing it.
Hervey Afpafio vindicated, nmo 75
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo %
Walker's sermons, with Biair's life of
the author, » vols Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
Unlverfityof Oxford, Bvo I 50
Wynperffe on the true aod eternal God
head of our Lord Jesus Christ, 50 a 68
Sacred Biography, or the history of the
Patriarchs, by H. Hunter, 3 vols Bvo 6
A lirge aflbrtment of bibles, iu folio, quarto,
nmo and pocket, at various prices.
A large allowance to wholesale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
may 17 aawjw
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fcrve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuftcmed to marketing for a family—
►i* age about thirty two years. For fu'ther parti
culars, apply -t the office sf thi- Gazette.
uiit 15. §
The following Certificates of IWa
FUNDED DEBT OF THE VSITED STATES I r _ ]
STANDING on thcßookjof the treasury, were j I
forwarded for Lo.don by the fh ; p William (
Pcnn, Ciftiin JcGah, which hath been captured,
and ihe Certificatesfuppefed to be 1011, viz : cltcr
3164. 81. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June a, 1797- Certificate
No, 10,07 2. conti
Bosi. 15. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Hornc, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 1797- No. Hi? 6 - in „ ,
3610.50. Deferred Debt, in the Bame of Will
iam Manning, of Ortnfby, in the county of Nor- J
folk, in England, <kted July 10, 1797. No. aj (fc
1018 Three per Cent. Stock, in the narme P' a ''
of Jannet Mat hew, of Upper Seymour ftrcet,
Londoa, Widow, dated Odober 31 1797* gene
"8»0. neat
For the renewal ®f the above Certificates, ap
i ligation is intended to be made at die f .id office of
:he Treasury of the United Statu,—and all per-
I iunt concerned aredefired to talto notice. fucd
ALSO —IS TBI SAME VESSEL,
1 Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof UsitedStates in » c 0
the name of William Ormfby.coun- « lc '
I ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates r
I for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797. lotl
No. »593». *59*4-
For the renewal of which,application is meant to P eal
I be made to th« said Bank of the United Slates, —
I and all persons concerned therein are desired to
I take notice.
JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may S 6w •
I The following Certificates of Shares Jrl
I TN the North American Land Company, Handing crs.
I 1 on the Books of said Company in the name of Gar
I Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid- out.
I dlefce, England—viz. No. llsl> representing 1
I 1309610 13105, ten ft ares—No.ei 50 —i3c66to whi
I 13075, ten (harts—No. 1149--*3®s^'°
I ten ihares—No. 2148—"5°9 t0 Hi 18, ten (bare# the
I
I Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the —t
I (hip William Pean, which having been captured, env
I said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the r* F
I newal of which, applicajion will be made te the reti
I Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *d6w
TO BE SOLD, F
40,959 acres of Land.
1 TN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennfyl-
I X \ania, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling
I Creeks and Ten Mils P»*n.
I These 1 .and* are fertile and v eil timbered, and
I abound ia Coal ; they were fold ten years for
J five (hillings per arre ; patented early in i7B7»ex-
J cept 370 c acres, whicn were patented in 179*»
I part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra<fi
I is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con-
I veaient to water carriage, about 19 mile 9 from
J the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
I village of Greencfburgh and Wheeling. I
On payment of one tourth of the purchase mo-
I ney, a credit will be given for the refi- «
1 due. Enquire of the Printer- **
april 11. $
TO BE SOLD, N:
26,780 acres of Land, ci
I TN the State of New Yo«fe, between the northern T
I 1 bounds of Pennfylvaoia and the Sufquehanna
1 now, or late U the townships of Hanidcn and j<.
I Warren andcountyof Warren. so
These Lends, from thur quality aid (ituation, S (,
I arc a verydefirable sbjcA for any man who means
I to invest his money to advantage. El
On payment of one thir4 of the pnrchafe mo-
I ncy, a reasonable credit will I e given for the refi-
I due. Enquire of the Printer. .
april It. i
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faleby W.Young, corner of Second
I and Chefnut-ftreet. M. Carey 118 High-street
]T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-fireet and the '
:rs I Boekfellers generally,
icr I (Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
I A Local Potm, historic aad deforiptive 1
as I By a Lady of Bojhn.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
I AlluGon to the surrounding Profpe£— Invocitiou
J to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic ,
3n, | Mufe—Fi&ion discarded—Dedication to Waft- „
ington—Tile A&ion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War-
I ren—Perfsnification of Fortene and Fame— J
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
I chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
,r I tical History of the several State*—Their com- ,
' I maoding Officers—Siege of Boilon—its Suffer* J
I jngs—Negotiation for the fa:e Retreat of the
British Army—lu Departure—Appointment of
jt- I Congrcfc—Declaration of Independence—Cha
n(j I raAer of the Columbian Sokiies—The Poet's f
if. I prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrcli of Free- 2
ev I dom througheut the World. 1
' I march 30. §
»d Bafkenridge—tor lale ,
~\l S I T T CoD^s 9*o acres, efmoft all of which it
I 1 a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
I Eerl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
J into five farms, four of which are bounded oa the
I East by the river Palaiek.
r. 1 Thrr'* are on it a number of baildings, forming
I afq'-«are of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
5 I is a very convenient ene andja fmallexpence would
0 I put it in complete repair.
, s I The orchard coniifts of 1500 fin*bearing engraf
|ti ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsoffaid
4 I trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
I-A variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
X heft and most delicious kinds.
' 1 Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
M _i. ForeftTreos, that add to the beauty and eonveni-
J 2 2 ence of the place. Its (ituation is a*nut 18 miles
4 from the towns of Newark and Elizil eth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and I % from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc treuble, the price is five pound pr. acre
5© in caih, on delivery of the deeds. . Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
75 February 1. eor) tf
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARCr ASSOtTMEKT
50 Is now rca'Jy for fait by William Young,
jg Boolft'ler, No. 52, Second Strict, the
corner of Chefnut flreet.
OF WHOM Ifjtv BE HAD
rto Baron Steuben t Regulations for tie Order and D*fci
fdine of the Trtnps 'f the Uhited States.— To •wLicb is
1 aided, am of Comgrefi concerning the Militia, price
ach 5° iartj ' largefrr 'tuts 67 cents.
W. Young,
V Husftr file, on tbe Uvejl terms, far enjb or negotiable
Notes,
Lafge -writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
is a Fo.hcap, Pofl, Folio and 4 to. Poflff various fik.es,
and gilt and plain ; ink fxnodrr.fealina loax, wafers,
|y— inkJUsids, black lead pencils, quills, rulers, cast s ma
»rti- ihesnaiiccl injlns9!cnts y gunter fed Us, parchment and eft
Jim memorandum bvols, pen-knifes, in.ua rubier and ink,
§ may 12
Wafliington, Commissioners Office,
7ti May, 1798.
THE CommiflGoners will receive j ropofal* un
til the 10th of June next, for buil4®J
the City of Washington, one of the Executive
Offices ior the United States, of the following
external dimenfionsl4B feet in length, and
57 feet 6 inchea in breadth; cellar walls 30
inchc* : firft story *3 inches ; and second story 18
inches j partition walls averaging 15 inches ; to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms ; fame num
ber on the second story ; and in the roof % rooms,
with a passage. The whole external of the build
ing to be of flock brick ; the inside walls of hard
burnt brick ; cellars of btft foundation ftono, to I
the height of the girder* ; the outside walls, as far
as they (hew abort ground, to the pli«th. to be of
plain afhlzr free-ftone ; soles of windows, fills of
door s and firing course, of free ft one. The house
to be covered with cypreia (hingles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 20, finifbed in a plain,
neat manner, of the bell materials ; fix fmau
rooms to be groined. _
A plan and elevation of said building, and biu
of particulars, arc lodged in the office, for the in
fpe&ion of those who may with, to contra & ; alTo,"
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
die, Esq. at Philadelphia.
Proposals, sealed up, will be received until the
10th June next, on which day, the board will
proceed to contract with such person, as shall ap
pear under all circumstances.to offer the best terms.
Per order of the Commissioners.
THOMAS MUNROE, Clerk.
may IT. 2awtloJe_
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City, ,
wish to receive two or rhrce genteel boaid- [
ers. The House is haV.forody iurnifhed; the
I Gardens, M-adows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the ehoicefc Fruit.
There areftverai Musical Inftrumcnt?, among*
f which is a mo.l excellent pateHt Piano Fort-. The
Family have a handfoare Coach, which may beat
the fervicc of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables *re mo ft excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Gi
gcttc. dt£ mty 16.
TO PE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
APleifant House in Dosk-ftreet, near Frent
flre* —Apply at No. 15 J South Second-
_J| lr " v *7
Ross y Simsom,
f HAVt ro* SALE,
22 bales superior Mailrafs blue Cloths
Carolina lnJ:go, firft quality
r A few bales Baftat, Coffaea, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and? ny M
Bengal J
e april % _ j .
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVI FOU S»",
" At No. 5, Dock-street, near the Drawbridge,
China war; nankeen dicing fetu, tea and cofiee |
cap? and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungcm cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Englilh umbrellas,
n Together with a general qfortment of European
> Goods— among which are
Seots thread in boxes
6d. Sd. lod. lid and lod. nails
». Shot—T. Crowley tteel, SpawJh brown aid white
«« lead
Esglilh scythes 4a to 50 inches
?" ALSO,
it, harrcllsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StareinDock-flreet,
No. 7, to be let, three dories high, suitable for
any business. 5 4*^ mo * s*^
For Sale, *
l, e Tke car jo ofthebrig American from Lagu ira,
consisting or
Ca'accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
i No. 111, South Fourth Street,
april 13 §
on Frefli Teas.
Jufl Imported, in the jhip Delaware,
he Captain Cooper, from Canton,
we ifni For SaU % by
ar- SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Ro. 54, Cbefnut-ftreet,
iie and RT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
'k" At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
"I Bohea,Souchong,Hyson, Young
the Hylon, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS,
of ALSO,
ia- China Ware, aflorted; block and coloured Lute
rt's firings and Sattins, Naukeeris, Cassia, large garden
ee- and coramo» Fans, fattin and luteftf ing Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
Tbry have a\fo Ft Sale,
~~ Ell wide Pcriians, Baadanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
1 i* march S
jed Now Opening,
the AtWin-i am M'Laws Saddle Maaufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
use A general aflortment of Horseman's
uld pifiols, dire& from the Manufacturer* in l^>ndoa.
ALSO OM HAND,
. : Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Cotcts, Light
a Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau*®, Hard feather
Lrie Trunks, Carriage and Chair Haraefs, &c.
April 9 dtf
rni- Salisbury Estate.
il« 'T-»HE Subscriber, propoGng to contrafl his bafi*
<l°- 1 ness, offers this Eftaie for sale, 00 moderate
—lt terms. On it are one Blast and three Air' Furnace*,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
icre Mill, with two pair of (lones ; also 2 good Forge, all
en- in perfed repair,as are all the Water Works eon;fcft
cd with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
•eet. wctc lately built for the parpofe ot cafling Cannon
for this State. —There are abou*. two thouiaod acre*
of Land, one half of which i s under wood, the other
very f.ne arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manofatiured there*
rs, fully proves the excellency of the metal, which h
(operior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to' any in the world ; for not one of axty-nuje g*r»
i 1 lately made, although lome of the 94 were bared
into 32 ponnders. have failed on proving. The Gtu
ztion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manv.fadure,and a place ot aims lying in the state
Hfci- of Conne&icutfcand only 30 miles from several land •
itb is ings on the Hudson's river, having every advan
firiee lhal can rc^l from ■ °f water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety'of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
rtable cd with all the flock and otenfi'.s, and have poffcQicn
onor before the firft of June next, and preparation
D o r may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
' mediately thereafter, for every part will bcdelivered
in good order, with fame coal, Ore, dec. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Acihony, in Philadel-
P^ la S David Brooks, Esq. one of the P.eprefentaiivea
fJ in CoogTefs for this ; llr, Dwid Watnroan, on
*■!' I the premises, or lothepropiietor 10 New-York.
dink, I WILLiAM NEILSON.
\\u I Dee. t. 3aw*f