Phifadelfl&ia Daily Advertiser,
Nvmres 1.746.J
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
fcribert, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 cadis of nails aflbrted
10 bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
15 tierce* bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
Teneriffe do. in hogfheada and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottlss
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflinetJ &c.
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands and presses
30 puncheons Jamaica rum
1 hale Teaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
■.n '-'rvVr Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin (21 Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
FOR SALE.
i? 7 brown jHavannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to niorrow, at IVillingsand Fran
cis'® wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jch\t Hollingfworth & Co♦
march 30. §
freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler y
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Wain's wharf—A
stout, ftrone velTel, of about 270 tons bur
then, in good ord r ; has two thirds of her cargo
xeady to g© on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, aoply to
PRATT if KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
Who have JUST RECEIVED, and FOk SALE,
12 bale* Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
2 do. Vatterbornes
I do. bleached Hessians
I package Oil Cloth
1 f heft and & barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
29 anchors pearl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Rufiia Soap
io (mailboxes, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow G ! afs, Sfates, a carpo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Hessians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march 20. tuthsxw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry^
John Fleming, Master,
partot'her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
Jejfe (sf Robert Wain.
February i(i $
tfor Sale or Charter,
M§|a good hope
Will carry abont 1200 barrels, and
ujimSSniitl' srell ly totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Praters 1$ Co.
No. 151, Sooth Secosd-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win#.
November 7. dtf
PROPOSAL,
For Publi/bing by Subscription,
AN
E N I R Y
INTO THE
OSTGV* OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
r J" I HIJ Letters to Dr. Currie, which I publilhed
X l ift autumn, led me to an investigation of
tb* origin anil phenomena of peftilantial diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the profrcutioii of the fubje<st, new fadb and
principles continually opened to my and fi
nally determined me to trace back the history of
fiuh diseases as far as the records »f history ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Cam
bridge and Boston, with a view to obtain all the
material fails which can illustrate the fubj»<st,and
I have nearly collected all the materials for the
propofcd work.
The la its eell.&ed wi'l enable mc to demon
strate that many of the common idea* refpe<Sing
pestilential epidemics, are untounded or extreme
ly in correal ; and this in consequence of medical
writers canfidering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as connefted with other epide
mics or other phenomena of nature in various
parts of the world. The faSs 1 have collc&ed
lead to certain deductions which are furprifingto
•myfelf, and which will probably be new to many
others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
and perplexing fubjeit, as well as on natural phi
losophy.
The proposed work will make a full fixed oita
vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, caH
not be afforded at lets than two dollars, bound,
with the ufunl allowance to book-fellers. At the
compilation will 00ft not only great labor, but con
siderable expence, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fubferibers. The hook will be rea
dy for fubferiber searly ill the coming funimer, and
the holders of proposals will be good enough to
retnrn them to No. 40, Pine-flreet, by the firft of
May.
SrmciurTioMS received by the book-feller* in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, Now-I.ondon, Providence, Bolton, Bal
timore and Charlcfto*.
NOAH WEBSTER, jus.
march aB.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, indullrious woman to cook
a<tll do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
plv.—Enquire of the Printer. 0
February 7 J
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 14,1798.
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
AtNo. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
caps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taflities
Pungent cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and EngHfh umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Seots thread in boxes
6d. Sd. lod. lid and 20d. nails
Shot—T. Crowley fleet, Spanilh brown and white
lead
Englilh scythes 41 to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 barrcllsof kiln dryedlndian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three llorie* high, l'uitablefor
any bufineis.
4th mo. .jth §tf
Just Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of Prance,
And for sale Ry
Joseph Anthony & Co.
10 bales Bourbon cotton of a fgperior quality ,
150 bags do. coftee
14 casks do. Indigo
aprit 3 d'ot
JUST kECEIVED,
FROM FO R T-A U-P MNC E,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do.
110 hogsheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogibeads of Mola/Tes
4 bale& of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS &r FRANCIS,
P^nn-ftreet.
march IK §
; A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different fiaes, at a very large
discount from the sterling cost. If thi« Glass is
not disposed of before the sth at April, it will be
fliipped from this port.
For terms apply to No. 89, South Third-street,
march 26. §ivr
THE PARTNERSHI? OF
WELLS MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the Ilth Febraary lad,
all persons having demands against the said
Partnerfliip, are requested tofurnifh their accounts
for fettlemeot ; and those indebted to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubferiber.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The business will be tarried on as hereto
fore, by the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
ket-street. Iw march 14.
FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. ii, Penn-flreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
Joh* Green, commander,firom Bengal,
Gobftjiing of
Baftzs, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjuni Cloths
Sanah« Guzzty do.
Humhura* Charconna Dore*
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamoodys Checks
Mahaiagonges Patca Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Sifierfoy
Piniafcoci Choppa Romala
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various cel.
Mock Pulicats
«oo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing: isf Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to f*le at that
commodious flore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. «f ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
Frefli l eas.
Jujt Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sa/e %
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreot,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,^Y oung
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and iuteftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also Fir Sate,
EH wide Persians, Bandanna Hanikerchisf',
French Caiabricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
~ JUST RECEIVED.
And for fate by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet. M. Carey tiß High-tireet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-flreet and the
Booklellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar )
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive j
By a Lady of 80/lon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the furreunding ProCpeil—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Muse—Fiction dilcarded—Dedication to"Wafl>-
ington—The Aftion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General ilowc
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfenification of Fcrtune and Fame—
Wafhing'on at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of th» Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege «f Boflon—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
BtitiOi Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congreffr—Declaration of Independence—Cha
ra<£lcr of the Columbian Soldie*—The Poet'*
prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrefs of Free
dom thrniieh«iit the World,
march jo. J
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefrrut Street.
French Morning School.
G. DUFIEF,
RESPECTFULLY informs h;s friends and the
public, that ka has removed from No. 71,
Chefnut street, to No. 63, South Second street ;
wliere he will open, on Monday next, the 16th
mft. a Morning School, from 6to 8. H® contin
ues to teach every day from 4 to 6 iu the after -
n jon, and from 6 till 9 in the evening.
N. B. Private Tuition attendedto as usual, and
from either language iqto the other,
performed with secrecy, accuracy and dispatch.
April iv *,U
For Sale, » *
THE time of » NEGRO LAD, who has a
bout three years to fet-ve—He is perfetlly
capable of and used to all kinds of house work ;
has also been accuftomcd to wait at table. A
purchaser refiiliug in the country wcsuld be pre
ftrred. Enquire of the Printer.
April i 2. eod3w
A Nurse Chiid Wanted.
ANY person who may want to put a child out,
may hear of a place, by enquiring of Conrad
Baker, near the town house, in the Northern Li
berties. 3t april 11.
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for tbe benefit of his Creditors, to james
C. Fllher, Samuel W. Filhcr, and Thomas Wilfan.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignees.
James C. iff Samuel IV. Filler.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
SALT P E I~RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel JV. Fijher,
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4t^wtf
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRTBER, NO- 10, CHESNUT ITRIET,
i X Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a ikort
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April * mw&*4W
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-flreet
was on the night of tfee 19th instant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces troud, viz.
20 \ y ds ' 7 Blue ftroud single
ZO * CO r4.
3379 20
2380 20 \
2381 to"i
'4S '°°il Twocori
-2384 20
*385 iof j
The above reward is ofFered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, anu made amenable to justice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part as the goods stolen, on delivery of the
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
' I 'HE term of Co-partnerlhip between the fub
-- fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. empires this day, and by mutual
confcnt will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all tfcofe the partnership,
are earnestly requested t» niake piyment to, with
out deliy.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND To* SAL* SY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
~Alex. J. Miller James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhin under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend kejepjng a genel-aLaf
fojtment of Mia, Gcrtr.ua, Jrijl, French and Bri
tijb Manufactures for sale, on advantageous terme
for calh or a short credit.
February 19 <tf
Red Clover Seed of the best quality,
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, hr.lf
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glass—all of which will b( fold
on v«ry reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. la, Dock Street.
march I w&gtf
NOTICE.
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the fallowing
description, viz—No. 10033, 10034, and 10035,
for 5000 dollars«ach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
(landing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni.
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Wadditjgton,
of Lanover Houfe,near *.bargavenney in England,
Esq. have been loft by the capture of the Clip Ilac
chus, from hence to London, in June last.—This,
therefore notifies those whon it ipay concern, that
application will be mad: at the Treasury of the U
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington y Harwood.
march 22 §6w
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, {landing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 s6w
TO BE SOLD,
A Very Valuable Farm,
SITUATE on theNelhaminy creek, Buck's coun
ty, contami' g about 148 acres, of which about 30
acre, are excellent wooi-land ; the remainder nxia
dow and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
(late j the whole under poll and rail fence, chiifly
new last fummcr. On the prcmifes are a log-house
and barn. The Gtuatien for a country feat is per
haps one of the ino.l eligible in the vicinity of Phi
ladelphia, lying on the Nefhaminy, with the ad
vantage of a landing place within 100 yards of the
farm-houfc, and commanding a very extenfiveview
of the furrouuding country : it is about three quart
ers of a mile from the floating bridge, 17 3-4
miles from Philadelphia, and 2 1-2 miles from Bris
tol. For terms of sale and further information ap
ply toThomasßenjer, Eftj. in Bristol, or
WILLIAM WALN, ~
No. T44, South Second street.
April 7. 3ta*tf
N O T I C E.
nPHE Partnerlhip of the fubferibers, trading un
-1 der the firm of PAXSON & RICHARD.
SON, was diflolved on the lixth of the:hi[d moi.th
last, by mutur.l confcnt. All persons indebted
thereto are earnsftly requeued te make payment ;
and those that have any demands again it the fame,
are desired to present their accounts for settlement
to either of thefubferibers.
Isaac Paxfon,
Nathaniel* Rkhardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 179*.
isaac"paxson,
Continues to carry on the buiinefs at the usual
place, No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a large assortment of Ironmongery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and Brafs*Ware#, which he wi'4 fell
whoUfale or retail, on low terms, for cash or the
usual credit. He expe&3 to receive by the fir ft
vefiels from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull,
a larjje addition to his present assortment ;ind
will execute with pun<sluality and care any orders
from the former customers, and hi*friends in gen
eral. aaw/w
MESSAGE
Of the Pre/ident of the United States,
To both Houses of Congress,
April 'gß
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
FOR SALE ,
At No. 63 North 3d street, at Way&Groff's
Printing-office, No. 2J Arch flrcct, and at the
office of the Editor, No. 119, Chefnu-ftreet
JUST~P ÜBUSHED,
AMP FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 2'S Cents)
Reflexions on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OF Y3E EXECUTIVE)
As publilhed ia the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In •which the Commercial Warfare of Frante is traced
to the French Fadlion in this Country, afits Source,
and the Motives oj Oppositions
march 30.
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E.G. M.DI LA GRANGE,
Walnut-ftrcet, No. 110,
BEING duly commiflioned aiyl sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to tranftate the French,
Engkiih, Spanish, Portugucfe and Italian Langua
ges : he flatters himfclf that his former profellion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to translate any Court proceed
ings or other Judiciary instruments.
N, B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place.
Ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it coofilts now of about 150© volumes
the bell adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wi(h hotb to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufeful inftrudlion and plcafnre.
march .*O. qaw 1 m
Sehuyikill permanent Bridge.
THE fubferibers Cotnmiffioßers appointed by
an a& of aflembly ol this Commonwealth,
entitled " An a6t to authorize the Governor of
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company
" fer eredling a perman»nt bridge ever the river
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia,"
hereby »ive notice, that Books are provided as the
law dirCcSa ; and that w< will proceed to receive
fubferiptions for the Company Stock,,on the ninth
day of April next, at the City Hall, ia the city of '
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be received
from ten o'clock in tha morning till two o'clock,
P. M. of that day ; and the books will continue
open during those hours of succeeding days, until
the number, required by the said law to enable the
Commissioners to certify the fjme to the Governor
for incorporating the Stockholders, be fubf-cribed
RICHARD PETERS,
• JOHN PER or,
GODFREY HAG A,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, rgth March, 1798. 2^ —3»wtf
The Annual Eledtion
FOR DireSors and a Treasurer of the Library
Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the ,
Library, in Fifth street, on Menday, the 7th of
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
the Treasurer will attend to receive the annual
payments.
As there are several (hares on which finci are
due, the ewncrs of them, or their representatives,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeably to the laws of the company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May, 1
or within ten days after. '
By ord'rof th« Directors,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Secretary. ;
April 7 3aw
Prison Manufactory,
FOX SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadcl- 1
pliia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, from 3dy toiody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sa«!er< Thread ,
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and h*ia.j (tones, hearths, chimney pieces, j
platforms, (labj, tacia, window hea<<, tills, c .
All which may he bad on reasonable terms,
Sh les made and Weaying done at laid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, direfked to Daniel Tbo- 1
mas, agent far tjie prjls, v.ill be attended to.
Dc.:subef rf. * |»*Mm
TORT WlNtf,
In pipes, hogOieaos and quarter calks,
or A SUPERIOR (JUAHTI,
Just imparted, in the Henrietta, P. P. Sfximidi,
I matter, from Oporto,
ALSO, ON HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boftpn Beef
Queens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales
Ouns assorted in cafe, Cutlass, Sword., &c,
For Sale by'
THOMAS I# JOH.V KETL4HD.
.. Walnut ftfett wharf,
u^ 1 "• ,c,
Pennsylvania Hofpkal,
r HC o -c Wo ' 7 /A > 1798.
HE Contributors to the Pe*»fylvani<i ilofaii
tal, are to meet on the f.;venth day of next
"j™' m S th ; feeond day ol' the week, at tho
said Hcfpital at three o'clock in the afternoon to
cledl twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
eiifuing y£ar.
By order of a hoard of Man avert.
SAMUEL CQATES, Sn'ry.
a P nl 1 atfi
Schuylkill permanent Bridge,
I T HE books will continue open from day to
-L day, between the hoursof 10, a.m. and
u' m M -/ ecc| ving iubferiptions, at th< City
Thole who mean to lubtcribe, will please
to come proved with cafli or bank not?*, a,
checks cannot be taken.
IX CALDWELL, Secretary
. tf Cqaiiniffioners,
April jo. _ M 4tf
SILVER WATCHES, ""
Cash will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCHIiS, by applying im»
mediately at No. 15 South Fist}* street, between
Market and Chtfnut ftrcet?.
April ;o. w 6t
Now Opening,
At Wi lli A m M'Laws Saddle Manufactory^
No. 72, Chtfnut Street,
A general aflprtment of Horfemanfs
Pistols, direA from the Manufacturers in Rondos,
ALSO ON HANP,
Bridles, Holders, Half Cover., Ligh»
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouoh 8.-xcs, Va
l'ces. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Lecher
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
A P ril 9 dtf
Madeira Wine. '
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate pfe, and 9t a reduced price—Fop
flle b y JAMES YARD.
April 4. d2w
* TO BE LETT"
And pojjejjion given immediately,
Agenteel three story brick Houfg,
No. 7, North Eighth street,
14 feet front and 55 feet de«p, with a handfomj
at No. 118 Spruce street.
ap'f 4 §
J ult Received,
AND FOR SALE By
ISAAC HA RV ET, Jun,
(No. .5, South Water street,)
A quantity of Georgia Cotton,
•ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes MoJaffe*
Raisins in keg«
Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons of Nicaragua wood.
_ 4*h mo- 4th
A great Bargain.
WILL BE SOLD, if applied for immediately,
Twenty Thousand Dollarsin Bills of Ore,
dit, upon inured at fiv« per cent, per annum now
lodged in the Tteafury, and endorsed by the Unit,
ed States, with a promise to ««pay the intcrcft an.
Dually." Enquire at the office of
THOMAS McEWEN [zf Co.
A P ri| "- :»
For Sale,
By Elliston & John Perot,
No- AT, North Halter Streit,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes antj
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate ufc,
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Coflei
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvals, No. i, to q
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China.
march 3 tu &v
To the Afflidted with T
NERVOUS Disorders, lofsof appetite, femalo
complaints, debilitated constitutions, inward
weaknesses, lownefsof spirits, seminal weaknefies
indigestion, decayed, weak or relaxed constitutions'
pains in the limbs, poverty of Mood, finkin" anx
ieties, and tremors, whici} so dreadfully affsS the
weak, the fedemary and the delicate, every i'yrnp
tomof extreme debility, attendant on the indirec
tions of youth, the confcq-jences of a difEpated
life ; excess of pleasure or grief, change of climate
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquor;, or
any intemperance [ disorders incident to young
girls and women at a certain period cf life
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
I» a medicine of absolutely fpeeific andunparal,
leled »irtue», in thefpeedy and effectual cure ofrhi
above disorders, haying flood a trial of many fuc
cefsfal years, during which period Bany have bten
reftoced from the brink of the grave.
Youth and age of cither lex, are equally theob
jeAs of thii Restorative, and they will uniformly
participate in its falHbrions qualities and effeifls •
for whetherthe system has received a ihock, Ltul U
debilitated, from imprndencies or inattention in
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ad
vance of years a small quantity of this medicine
will give prcfent relief to, and afford a pleafin .
profpeil of returning health and strength, by giv*.
ing tone to the muscular system and organs of dj.
gellion, and In a great meaiure renovating the co.-j.
dilution.
Women at any period of life, may by this medj,
c : r.e be freed from the most aißiiling difordeti in
cident to the fcx, and at a certain period it is >nol}
highly ufclul.
l'he Cordial R*ftorative Balsam is fold genuina
(only) by the proprietor, Dr. CHURCH,
at hi., medicine Here, No 1, South Third lireet
nexz Marbct-Sreet, Philadelphia ; where m-.y be
hac an account of the virtue of tin? Reft .ra-iv;
and a lift of cures.
[Volume XIIICONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES'
SICK AND DISABLED SEAMEN.
Tuesday, April 10.
( Concluded from yeflerday's Gaxeth.)
Mr. Sew all did 1101 think the gentleman
from New-York had treated him, or his crb
fervations, with much canddur. That gen
tleman,'faid he, claim! to himfelf a great de
gree of benevolence and charity towards the
sailors of the United States. He is the father
of this bill,which conliders these men as inca
pable of taking care of themselves, and calls
upon them to fubferibe for their own support
in cafe of sickness or inability, without taking
a farthing from the pocket of the United
States, or from the gentleman himfelf. The
gentleman spoke of charity ; he tlvoug'U -his
charity equal to that gentleman's. [Mr. Li
ving ston said he was far from fpeak/'ng of
his own charity]. Mr. S. said, he was him-,
felf arguing apauift his own interest; for it had
been (aid by the gentleman from New-York,
that in cafe rhis bill parted into a law, persons
who hacl beeri heretofore called upon to sup
port this,clafs of men, would in future b? «x
---cufedfi"om this charge ; whereas, if it did nqt
pass, he Ihoiild bo charged with this tax as at
present. But he contended, that as die sai
lors of Malfachufetts could hot be excused
from paying the town taxes, it was h;yd they
Ihould be tailed upon again to pay for the
support of their own body. Yes for doing
this, he was charged witii pertinacity and a
want of benevolence towards this clals of men-
Mr. S. believed he had a greater re fpert for
teamen than that ge'itlentan, and it was his
opinion, that the f-iilors were able to take cure
of themselves, without the alliltance of the
gentleman from N-fw-York.
Befi jts, said Mr. S. this bill proposes the
erettion of public hospitals (however econo
mically thev mav be built) not merely for the
fe imen of the United States, hut for the fea
tren of foreign nations so that the sailors of
this country —a class of men who have nothing
to spare—are also c alled upon and forced to
support a public charity for foreigners ; for
out of ioo»cirizens of the United States who
pas to this fund, perhaps not one would re
ceive any benefit from it. If there had been
previous benefaCtionstoaconliderable amount
for this objett, as had been the cafe in other
countries, an! these contributions were want
ed only for currer.texpences, the thing would
have been different.
But the gentleman from New-York repre
feyts the people of Malfachufetts as receiving
great advantages from a bounty on filh ex
ported, which was intended to reimburse the
dirty on fait used in their business of curing
filh ; and he had calculated this advantage
far beyond w hat it really Vs. But admitting
that they receive fometlung more than the a
mount ofthe duty paid on their fait, it mult
be allowed that it went to the encouragement
of a let ot men at all times valuable to the
United States, but particularly so at this time.
But.;was this any argument why he Ihould not
oppose this fax ? Would it be proper
for him to aufwer to these men, when
they complained of this tax, " You are taxed,
it is true, for the support of foreigners, to up
hold a piitil-c charity for the Un.ted States,
who will have the honotrr of taking care of
seamen ; but you ought to be fatisfied, be
cause the general government allows you a
bounty onthe exportation of your filh." He
believed not. And ha believed the gen/le
niaft from New-York had as little realcare for
seamen as he had for the filheries of the Uni
ted States.
Mr. S. said, he would next notice some
obrtrvations of the gentleman from 5. Caro
lina (Mr. Pinckney) which partook offonic
thing like argument. That gentleman laid,
the sailors ought to pay the tax, Secaufe
were to receive the benefit arising from it.
But he had before stated the seamen of New r
England do not want this provision, and why
tax them for what they do not want? The
sailors there would be averse to being remov
ed from their homes and friends, to an hos
pital at adiftance. It was said this eftablilh
meut-would aiiord similar.relies to that provi :
vicTed for our failnrs in Foreign Countries.
He thought it very different, as that was pro
vided at the public expence, and this was to
be raised from the la'l Or# themselves. He
believed the sailors of New England .would
sooner take their chance abroad, than pay this
tax for Befides, the fifhermen
never go info the southern states ; they are
employed exclulively in fiftiing, and export
ing their filli.
3efides this tax would have an eSe£t to drive
our seamen out ol the country. The tax
would fail upon the merchant, and be deduc-.
ted from their wages. It would also fall hea
viest uponthofc seamen who have families and
are fixed in the country. A foreigner could
afford a fmxll deduttion from his wages ; but
a native feainan with a family could not af
ford it.
As it the federalifm of the thing,
he was in favour of every measure which went
to eftablilh harmony betwixt different parts
of the country ; but he had no idea of taxing
a single order of men on this account.
Mr. S. Smith believed, with the gentle
man last up, that this would be a tax upon
the merchants, as the sailors mnft have fufii
cient to support them. He did not believe the
filhermen could complain ; for though the
geutleman dated that the bounty allowed up
on the exportation of fi!h was only meant as a
drawback ofthe duty paid upon the fait used
in fa!ting the fifh for exportation, every man
inuft be convinced that it far exceeds that a
mount, as he believed the sum allowed was
greater than the whole sum paid by that date
foiMhe fait duly. i.The Speaker asked whe
ther these obfcrvur.ons applied to the questi
on f] If they did not Mr. S. wished gentle
men who had preceded him on the fame sub
ject had been interrupted. The Southern
States, Mr. S. continued, were as able to
keep their seamen from perilhing as the Eas
tern ; but this was a measure which would re-,
dound to the honour of the United States.
No fjilor, he was certain, would grudge'to
pay 10 cents out of jo dollars tor so excellent
a purpose. The tax would eventually fall
upon the merchant or landlord ; but he be
lieved upon the landlord, as they generally
got the surplus of the sailors money.
Mr. J. Parker was sorry the gentleman
from MafTacfiufetts could not consider all the
f«amen of the United States as Handing upon
the fame ground. That gentleman was mis
taken when lie said the bill went to provide
for the support of foreigner? ; it had no such
view, it provided only for thw relief of our
own citizens. And in our present Ctuation,
when the country is threatened wilh war,
what encouragement was there for men to en
ter 011 board our vessels, if there were no afy- '
luni forthem in cafethey were sick or wound- '
cd? It would be wife and politic, in his o
pinion, to begin mealures which mud place
these persons in a better situation tlun at pre
sent. The British sailor looked up to Green
wicll Hofpiul as an afyluin when all iiis toils
ate «vef ; arid-p«rhapj it may be owing, in
fame tneafure, to this c»rcuiii(tance, that the
t!tit Ih fa'lors arefo valiant a lit orf-men. "He
hoped, therefore, the tailors of this country
would lotbe left to the doubtful benevolence
of others ; but that by palling tins bill, a
permanent relief might be afforded fhein in
caL- Ol* sickness, diability or old age.
Mr. VARNUMfaid, it had been observed,
that this bilrwould relieve the citizens of
Mairatluifetts from taxes in support of this
class of men. It might in some refpedt do
this; bat it would not excuse sailors them-
I elves from paying to the support of others,
equally with their fellow citizens. He did
not know but the United States have the
power to make the proposed regulation; but
he thought it was a bufiueff which more par
ticularly concerned the Legidature of the In
dividual States. If the United States, in
deed, thought this class rf men Of so much
mere importance than any other, the people
at large, he thought ought to be called upon
to support them in djftrefs ; and ifhofpitlls
are to be supported for this putpofe, the pub
lic ought to support them, and not the sailors
themselves.
Mr, V. did not know how the gentleman
who used it, understood the term Federalism ;
but if meant that Federalism which was
supported by the Constitution, lie did not
know how he would reconcile it with that
clause of it which fays " that no capitation,
or other direct tax, fliall be laid, unlefsiu
proportion to the census or enumeration di
retted to be taken."
Mr. V. did not think that this kind of tax
was confident with Federal principles ; for it
might as well be (aid, because the State of
MalTiichufetts is potFelfed of some particular
advantages over other Sta'es, every citizen of
chat State lhall pay a poll-tax often dollars
a year for the benefit of the Union, as that
the sailors of that Sme Ihould be called up
on bo support an establishment in which they
will be but little intereded.
Mr. Gallatin said, this was 4 cafe of
very new impreflion to him, which, perhaps,
might be one of the reafsns why he felt dis
posed to vote agaitift this bill. Until he law
some positive good as likely to ariftf from any
measure, he was always inclined rather to
vote again dit than for ir. This bill afTumed
a principle for its foundation, the truth of
which he vva; not acquainted with, viz. That
the seamen of the United States arc not able
to provide for themselves, and therefore
that it is necellary to provide a ftim for their
relief ift cafe of sickness or disability. He
had not seen this distinction between them
and other dalles of citizens, and therefore
believed them to he capable of taking care 0/
themselves. He knew there were in ail com
munities a number of men Who were not fuf
fic:ently provident to lay by money to afford
relief in sickness, or to make old comfort
able ; but he did not know that there was a
greater numberof this description of persons
amongst seamen than amongst others.
Institutions of the kind recommended in
this bill might be ufeful in other countries,
wherethere was a dilfinttion betwixt sailors
and other citizens ; bat in the United States,
he had not been able' to discover any material
diftindtion betwixt them and other clalTes of
men. How far Marine Hospitals had been
ufeful in Europe, he could not tell ; he knew
there were many rotten public institutions of
Hospitals, &c. there, which were eftabtilhed
for good purposes at firft, but which are now
become worse than uffctefs. But fuppoftng the
mftitution to be.a good One he thought it bet
ter to leave the bullnefs as at present, and
fuffer this class of people to provide for
themselves, or to be provide*for ill the lime
way in which' other poor and lick, or disabled
pcrfonsare supported.
Tiiere was one pWrt of the bill, which he
said he could not content to vote for, viz.
•hat part u brich directs the erettion of build
ings ; as he was convinced that persons of
every deftribtion m«y be better relieved by
being dilperf'ed through the country, than in
being placed in an hol pital. He was opposed
also' to the maimer in which the fund is pro
posed to beraifed. If he was inclined to pro
vide relief for sailors, as a didinft class ot ci
tizens, he wasagaiiilt providing a fundfor the
purpose by a tax upon labour, which would,
in all reflects, be a capitation tax. Gentle
men might argue as they pleated about the
tak falling upon merchants ; it was impolfible
to fay upon whom a tax upon labour would
fall. InJ'ome infta'nees, it would fall upon
the sailors themselves ; in othefs it would fall
upon the merchants ; and in some of thsfe it
would be paid by the merchants themselves,
and in others by the community.
Mr. G. did not under,land that there was
any diftintt provifron for seamen in the Eastern'
States ; they were provided for in common
with other citizens ; and, as it was allowed
they furnilhed two thirds of the seamen of the
United States, and as the representatives from
that quarter knew what kind of relief the sai
lors liked bed, he thought it right to c#tifult
their wishes upon the fubje£t. It they are fa
tisfied to support their seamen in the way they,
do, he did not know why a tax of this kind
Ihould beraifed for their relief.
Mr. G. said, he diould have been glad to,
have lomething as to tire effect this
law would'produce in this city. It was well
known the member from if, who would have
been poflelfed of every information onthefub
ject, has been a long time lick and unable to
attend his duty, in this haute. Seeing the
representatives from New-York, Baltimore
and Charleston in favour of it, and the Eastern
States against it, and not knowing the wishes
of the people of Philadelphia with refpeft to
the measure, he Ihould wilh tor time to obtain
some information upon the subject ; he there
fore moved to pollpone the question on the
pallage of this bill for two days, in order that
he and his colleagues might make fume en
ittqries on the bulinefs.
Mr. Hartley seconded the motion.
Mr. Livingston had no cb'jcflion to the
pohjioncment, especially as the gentleman
from Pennsylvania had expreilid his intenti
on of voting against the bill if palled at pre
sent, and because he knew the efffiSl of en
quiry would be favourable to the bill, r.s he
believed this city was much in the fame situ
ation with the city of New-York.
The question for a poftponemcnt was put
and carried.
-NEW MILITIA SYSTEM.
The house next went into a committee of the
whole on the bill for organizing, difciplin
ingand arming the Militia of the United
Statei ; when Mr. Varnum's motion for
for drikingout the firft seCtion of the bill,
which provides for a feleft and a refcrved
corps ; the former to consist of all young
men from 18 to 10, the latter of all from 24.
to 40.
THE motion for striking out the feflion
was made to try the principle as ttfa feleit
corps, and was supported by MeflVi. V*r
nuk, W. C. Claiborne, Nicholas,
Gallatin, Findley, and Skinner; It
was urged bv them, 'th it to introduce the
proposed system would be wholly to derange
the present eltablilhment, jvhivh, though it
j was no» was capable of being impruv
!ed and mije to nqfwer every .pur».>re ( of a»
- tfKvSwtmtlith. i n'pr.)of o! ''this, it waj dat
ed fhat jth.e Mil tia in tlie Eaitern States wai
'in perfect orderayd difciplin?, and that hji;ig
the cafe in thole-Starvs, it -might alfobe rfK
fame in others- if like means >vere taken. Is
the ft me laws were paired by the United Sta'et"
for the tin of the whole Militia as at
, present exiltctl in the ijaftern States, and if
the Militia Officers were every >Vhere'equally
attentive to their duty, the Militia i.light g«-
I ncrally be in equally good order. That the
plan propofad was only known in theory ;
! that though it might answer well in a thickly
fettled country, it would be attended with
many and great inconveniences in iparfe fet
tlemettts, as to get 100 young men together
to exercise would take in a circuit of 20 miles ;
besides that the fending out a large number of
young men together, without perfoiu of more
advanced yettrs as a check upon them, woirfd
hayea bad eifect upon the: r-mora Is, tud to
take young men away from their b.lli.iefs
which they might be jsj.it commencing forten
or twelve days at a time Svould ruin Uiem. —
Nor was it believed that young men could be
so / well or kept together, as if
they were interspersed with persons of grtater
age and solidity.
The new fyitem was supported by Messrs.
J. Williams, S. SMITH, Shepard, Day
ton, Macon, Brookis, Pinkney, and
Harper, as affording at all times an active
efficient Militia of at lead 150,000 men, which
would place the country at all times in lecti
nty, as no foreign power would ever think of
I attacking a country which could call out 1 his
j force j that the young men having been ac
:f tively engaged in discipline from 18 to 24,
| would, after that time to the age of 40, form
1 a reserved corps, ready to be called upon in
cases of emergency. That the difcipliniug
of rhe(e young men would keep the officers in
exercise, and they would learn how to take
. j care of men when they out in service,
j which was a confidcraton of firft importance;
j that young men would train much better to
gether than if fathers and sons" were in the
fame rai its', and being clothed in uniform
they- would become ambitious of excelling in
military duty. That this plan would be more
economical than the present, and would make 1
fewer exceptions from service ; and it was a
iplan which had been warmly recommended
by the firft military man in this country, the
late Prelident of the United States, and would
rendera Standing Army :n the country wholly
unnecedary. •
The motion for ftrikingout the fiiit feilion
was loft 45 to 3 1.
PARIS, February 5.
All the pei'fons baniflicd by the iaw of I
the 19th Frttclidor, embarked 011 hoard the
Vollante corvette, arrived at Cayenne the
firft Brumaire. The agent appointed to
provide for their natural wants, on the 6;h
of Frimaire dispatched them to the banks
of the river Comanama, between Sinema
ry and Yracoubo, the mofl healthful and
plentiful part of the colon", where they ar
rived the 7th. They are lodged provision
ally ina building belonging totue military ef
tablifliment of Sinemary, where they are
supplied with a certain portion of provisi
ons, besides clothes, and other nedeftarles.
The agent has reftrair.ed their cxcurGpua to
afpace of about twenty leagues under a ne
cessary guard, and assigned to each a porti
on of ground ; exclusive of which they will
be allowed to purchase lands for agricultu
ral eflablifhments—Official, RedaHeur.
After an article inferred in cur Journal the
day before yesterday, Thomas Muir wrote
to Robert Dundas, Lord advocate of Scot
land, a letter, reproaching him with the
blood of his compatriots, unjustly ftied in
the name of the laws, and to announce to
him, that this blood will desnand'expiatioru
since he, and all the friends of liberty would
not be willing to carry into a country,which
stretches out its arms,, any thing but these
facrcd words—Pardon, Qblivian and Atn
nrjly.
In the last public fitting of the Direfto
ry, Serribelloni, the ambaflador from the
Cisalpine republic, was introduced ilong
with his two colleagues in the million.—
He proneunced a fpeecb, which was an
swered by the President of the Dirtdory.
• The speeches confided of a panegyric on
the I rene!) for their alManee in forming
the Cisalpine Republic, if _mutual wiUies
to consolidate.the connexion between the
tvro republics.
February 8.
Little credit was given to the report
which had been circulated, that geueral
Berthier was to have made his publie entry
into Romeori the 2d inft. and that his Ho
liness, previous to that event, was to have
fct off for Malta aid-de-camp of gene
ral Bernadotte, however, who has arrived
from Milan, confirms the intelligence. Gov
ernment will in a f:wdays we enpedl;, receive
official communications on this fubjeft.
LONDON, Jauuary 31.
It appears that the revolution of Swit
zerland is co*fidered as effected. What will
bt the fate of thele ftafes, and what they
will now afiurne, will remain with the French
government to determine.
To be Sold by Auftion, at the Cof
fee-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the ift May
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the
Cuftom-tloufe, payable to William Love,
chair-maker, 150, North Front flreet, for 250
dollars, dated the 50th June 1797, due the 2d of
Aug. but negletfled to be prcfep.ted or protested
till the iSth ABguft by the Hank of Pennsylva
nia, for which che Btnk will become liable, if a
jury independent of Banks can be found,
april 13. *6t
A Young Man wanted.
Bood encouragement will be given to a young
Man to go into the back country, who undrr
flands keeping accounts, writes a good liand,
and who can be well recommended—None
other need apply. Enquire at Mr. Fenno's of
fice, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet
April 13. <jiw
To be Let,
(And poflVflion givr n on the id of May)
A genteel three story brick-House,
22 f ct front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and tables, at preftnt in the tenure of Major J • ck
bpN. Knq*,re at ky icuthTbird ilrcet.
apiii J
Xije csasCtte»
PHILADELPHIA,
\
i SATURDAY EVENING, April 14.
Yefterriay the H.onfe ot Representatives of
' the United States went again into a comiait
, tee of the wholetyi the (late of the Union, and
resumed the tonlideration ot the resolution
| proposing an appropriation for the purchase of
cannon, arms and ammunition for the service
.of the United States; when the motion pro
posed tp.amend the resolution by giving the
Prelident power, " in cafe of other means
failing in any conlidcrable degree, to purchase
or hre foundries or armouries, which fliall be
employed to manufacture the fame for the life
of die United States," after fonie debate, was
carried, 5a members voting, for it. The reso
lution as amended was agreed to without a di
v-iiion, and a bill directed to be brought in
accordingly. Some other bulinefs was done,
which will be given in co.irfe.
In the coiu'le at"the fitting, Mr. Harper
gave tbc.followijig notice :
Mr.- Speaker,
- BEKORE the House goes into the order of
the dav, I wilh # to give notice of a motion
which, at fomo time before ths end of this
session, I have resolved to fubniit to this
Heule. It is for the reprimand, at thenar of
the House, of one of its members, for the
mots vileand unfounded (landers against.sun
dry itjtjiribers ofthis House. These (landers
are contained in a letter which I have read in
the public prints ofthis city, and which con
tains all that malice and falfhpod could fug
ged for the purpose of defaming the members
of this Hfeule and cf the Government, and of
deltroying their reputation.' I allude, Sir, to
a letter under the (ignature of William Findley,
which has appeared in tile public pripts, and
the writing of which, by that pedon, can, as
I am well ad'ured, be proved by the 1110 ft un
exceptionable teftimooy, Nothing, Sir, but
my unwillingness to interrupt the important
business of the public at this crisis of our af
fairs, prevents me from immediately fubmit-.
ting this motion; and I will add, that Ifheuld
never have troubled the House on the fubjeif
of this person's conduct, did not that age,
which he diibonours, render him an unfit lub
ject for perlonal chaltifement.—
Mr. Findley withed to whether a
member had a right to attack another member
in this manner. If lie saw the latter which
had been alluded to, he could tell whether it
was his or not. Any letter of his, hehelieved,
would speak foritfelf.
Mr. Gallatimwifhed to be informed by
the Speaker, whether it was in order for a
member to rife 111 his placej under pretence of
his giving notice of his intention of making a
tticftidh, and thus abuse another member in the
House, faying he would chaflife him, and so
on. If the gentleman lias a motion to make,
why not make it without this ?
The Speaker replied, that a member had a :
right to give notice of any motion which he j
intended to make ; but, in the opinion of the j
Speaker, the gentleman from S. Carolina had i
gone farther in doing it, than order and deco
rum would jnftify.
Nothing farther paflTed 011 this fubjeft.
For tbi Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
V\ hile I am detained in this turbulent city
f.om a rJilhnt part of the state by some affairs
of buiinefs.i shall take the liberty of becoming
your correspondent so far as to give you an ac
count of one of the mo!t extraordinary and dif
orderiy scenes that J, or perhaps sny other per
son.ever law exhibited, unleli by the mobs ef
our dear lifter Rtpublic. On my arrival here a
day or two ago, 1 round the walls at almost eve
ry corner of the ftieets decorated with handbills
of an en'irely different and contrary nature. —
One sett (No. t, for I enclose you copies of
three which I happened to get poff ffion of J is
said to have been put forth by a Mr.
(a son of Efculapius) and fame other choice spi
rits ripe for glorious mifehief. Anoli er (Noj)
matle its appearance in canfequenc* of the firit,
and is afcribcd to a Colonel John Mayo of this
place. And a third ( Ne. 3 ) said to have bee«
put into circulation by a Mr, Wafinington and
some others'of Richmond.
E.-ipe&atios was wrought up to its highefl
pinnacle, and curiolity led many uonrelidents
likemyfelf te ihe place of political contelt. A
bout II o'clock, a large croud having afiemWed
at the court-houre, and as many as could, hav
ing prelTcd into it, (among whom I was one,
not being of that dei'criptjon of people who are
generally said to go to the wall) in a few mi
nutes a grey headed man drefied in black, with
a molt solemn gluom on his countenance arose,
and I thought the bulinefs of the day was to be '
commenced by prayers to the Deity to guide i
them in their deliberations, and to inspire them ]
with wifdora ; but on enquiry of an inhabitant
of the town near me, I found this was no other
than Mr. Futee himfelf—" And," added ray in- j
formant, " a danm'd fine, purs democrat lie is ;
he'loves the French belt of all the people upon 1
the earth, and if our Congress Ihould be iuch 1
fools as to go to war with them, and
tliey Ihould fend an army here, he would be
worth a Jews eye to them" ... Mr. Fateetheu )
made a motion that an old white headed gen- t
tleman, (a Mr. Adams I think J Ihould take the (
chair, and that a secretary (hould bcappointtd.
Upon this \ genteel looking man got wp and atl- c
dressed the people, advised tliem against pro- '
ceediug at all in the business j hut if ihey were 1
determined to go on, he hoped they would at t
[ least adjourn to a place where the whole of the t
people might hear what was to be said, Tb.s i
was agreed to snd they adjourned to the flrjet
in frt nt of the court.house. t
1 enquired of my new acquaintance who this r
ger.tlemsn was, aadwas told it was Col. Mayo,
" not half so good a democrat as the other, nor 1
half so much attached to the French, but," ad- t
ded he, "hei. a damu'd pepperijh fort of a fel- ;
low, and it will net do to tell lA>» so, for I took
notice he had piflols in his holders when he C
came hereto-day. Having now got fairly in- T
to the ftrect, Mr. Futee mourned »pon a fart of '
a platform in front of a house near the court- f
house, and from thence began a violent, inflam- t
matory, uncoußcdted fpeecli, full of inveilivea- 7
gainst the American, a; ofealogy oh the French
government, and then read, and offered to the C
people for their adoption* a set of rtfolutions 3
much in the stile of his speech. 2
This jacobiuical orator via succeeded by a F
little man whole name, as I understood from 1 e
byflander was Nicholas, brother to the Con- e
grefs «ran of that name, and he Ukewifeidetiv- n
ered a long speech in the gallic cause.
When ite had done Col. Mayo again sddreff 8
ed the people from the portico of the
and in a fpccA of a different call from the two
foregoing ones advised thein to sign no rcfolu
tioris i to be patient ; to have confidence in the
government, and not to endanger their ioun-
try's peace by anyhafty measure* of rl,eirs, and c
concluded by requcfting all those Who were I
■ friend* togovtrnmeat, peace, and good orler,
ta move of with him to the right ; upon which
a decided majority of the meeting, among whom
were two thirds of the decent looking people,
followed him- I then thought they were done,
at least for this day, but Mr. Futee with true
French zeal rallied the tattered remains of his
forces and again begin to exhort them, which
luring done, a small delicate looking man who
I was told was a Mr. Walhington, addrefied
' them from the platform in a very handsome
" fpeedi, and another sett of resolutions was offer
ed, of an entirely different cohiplexiori from th'e
'' firß, but from what sentiments 1 could discover
in the refpeiflable looking part of the people
c they did not wilh to accept any. I was amazed,
' however, M.*. Fenno, to find the appearance of
e prejudice in fume against this clever little man
.* only because his name is Walhington. Now,
Sir, if be was to go out into our country to prac
,e tice law (for 1 know he is a lawyer by his ad
e dre/Cng bitnfelf to "gentlemen of the jury")
s that name would be a recommendation to him,
especially if he is of the fame flock with the good
old general. But to return —Mr. Walhingtoa
1 having finifhed, and some oth*r gentlemen hav
' iug made a few observations, up pop'd Mr.Fu-
tee again, and ran the fame ground over and
over; just like a horfs running four mile heats,
and seemed disposed to have continued his repe-
P titions until night, if he could have got lilleners ;•
; but the grog beginning to circulate (this bring
eledlion day too) the love of that drowned the
love of country, and afforded Mr. Futee in op
j- portunity of playing «ff a most capital piece of
e generallhip, lor as fion as that precious beverage
had deprived any poor fellow of the fcaiity lhare
(.freafoh.with whi.-hn .tuiejtjdorig'naliyendow
-1 edhim.thefe resolutions weie offered him to sign,
and if he was too drunk to hold the pc», or did
not know how to writs at a"!l| they would do
. him the favor to f:gn for him. Thus did ma
s j ny men and boys, of various celours and defcrip
-3 tiens, write this day who never wrote before,
and perhaps never will again, unless in the fame
j manner ... by proxy- I tnufl r.ot forget to tell
3 you another circumiianse, to (hew you ho v lib
eral theft* people were, and how willing they are
t to admit all persons to lhare tie right o(itilirufl
t ing their representatives.
A dirty, Llaclisjuard fort of a looking fellow
whcinthev called Ilan 'tlai:d , appeared tobeve
j ry busy in getting Cgners, and ligning for those
t who could not «%n itr (for 1 f.w he
could write) caine to me, offered me the paper,
. and in a voice very much refembl ng the liearfe
found of a bull frogs throat, " Sir" fays he,
j (yes, I confefs he said " Sir") " won't you sign
r these republican resolutions" .' " Sir," replied I,
j "I do not live in the county." "Nn matter
t for that Sir." " But Ido not live within io»
j miles of the place." '♦ 'Tis all one, we let eve
ry one sign them." Myindigiwtio.i had now
, j risen so high that I turned on my heel, made
, i no reply, and by this tirr.e a v olent fiorm of
f ; wind and rain ebmiug on, I quitted the disgust
( | ing scene and haflened to my lodgings for fear
; of getting \*et, aud as I could nqt ramble out,
, for the heavy rain that yet continues to fall, I
( determined to amuse myfelf in my room by
writing yeu the foregoipg account ; and as soon
, ! as the weather p-rmits, and my (jufinefs is done,
• | I will mount myhorfe and depart, with a hope
: i of not feeing Richmond again until town-meet
! 1 ingi are over, and all republican resolutions decid
ed upon. AN IMPARTIAL bPhCTATOR.
Richmond, April id, 1798.
P. S. It I could have got copies of the re
solutions, I would have ftnt them also ft,r vour
paper, but no doubt, Mr. Futee and his princi
pal aid, Mr. Han'tland will c ntrive that every
body Ihould fee them now, though they would
not even let tbofe whom they wanted to adopt
them, do the tew who were drunk e
neugli to sign, had done so. In order to en
creafe their number (apparently ) different lheets
ol paper were handed about to r-ceive names,
and many names of the fame people were put
on all the different Ihects.
No. I.
It is recommended to the citizens of the
county of Henrico, and city of Richmond,
to take into tonfideration at the courthuufe
on Monday next 5 the propriety of giving
such inftrudh'ons to their rcp/refentative in
congress, as may prevent the Adoption ef
Measures tendtng to involve this country in
a war witk the French Republic.
March i%th, 1798. / ■
No. 11.
Ta the Free and Independent Citizens of the
county of Henrico, and city of Richmond.
GENTLEMEN,
An anonymous recommendation to you,
" to take into your confideratioa at the
courthouse, 011 Monday next, the proprie
ty of g!»ing such inftiuftions to our repre
sentative in congress, as may prevent the a
doption of measures tending to involve
country in a war with the French republic"
havit g made its appearance in the form of a
hano-biil, in the streets of Richmond—you
will, I have 110 doubt, txcufe a fellow-citi
zen, who is bound to the true interests of
his country by every tie of nature, for cau
tioning you againfl the precipitate commis
sion of an adt, which you may, perhaps,
yourfclves hereafter disapprove.
Let me alk yon, gentlemen, if there sail
be a doubt on your mind*, that your repre
sentative will of his own accord, pursue.
such measures as will tend to the prefcrvati
on of peace ? Then why in(tru& ? Are we,
if inftruaiens were necessary, 'pofTefled of
such information as to enable us to give
them ? l)o we not know, 011 the contrary,
that the houfc of representatives themselves
have been retarded in their deliberations 011
this momentous fubjedl, for want of infor
mation ? And lhall we, with still less know
ledge on the fubjeft, undertake to judge ?
Belides, what right have <we,, who consti
tute but a ftnall part of she diftrifl, to give
inllruttions for our fellow-citizens of the
other parts of it ? Is it right, that the mi
nority fliould fpeakforthe majority ? Sure
ly not. Forbear then, for your country's
fake—for your owu fakes—to fay any thinij
on the fubjeft— Tell not the enemies of
America, that we arc a divided difcontent
cd people.—Let them not suppose, by any
aftions of yours, that they will find parti
zans among us—Disregard, therefore, I
pray you, the lecommendalion above allud
ed to ; and believe me, you will render your
eountry irore service by, silence, than by a
ny inftruftion3 which you catr*at this time
g , , VIRGINIAN.
Richmond, March 2%th, 1798.
No. 111.
Observing- that printed hand-bills bare
been circulated, inviting a meeting of the
citizens of Richmond and the connty of
Hturieo, on Monday next, " to take intooonoderation the propriety of giving jfuc*
inftruftions to their reprefcntativea in coa
greh as may prevent thradoption of mea
sures teudingto l'nvolre this country in a war
with the Ftench republic."
Some friends to the peace and fafety of
this country beg leave to fugged that, the
queflion now agitating in congress, is not,
whether ' merica (hall go to war with France
but whether meafuree to protest the proper
ty of our citizens from Violence and Plun
der Hlall be adopted.
It is therefore recommesded to the friends
of the American government, to attend the
meeting, in order by ?n expression of their
opinions, to counteradl the exertions of
those who may jwifh to defeat those measures
and thus to encourage further aggreflions,
to provoke war, and to endanger the securi
ty, happiness and independence of our com
mon Country. ' ..
For the American Daily Advertiser.
To the Freemen of the City and County of Pbila
drlpbia.
My Countrymen,
THE Communications between our Go
vernment and Envoys at Paris are now made
known to the Public. The iituation in which
we are, is there clearly displayed ; the causes
which have Imj, to it »re pointed out ; and the
only means by which we can extricate our
selves trpm the difficulties'and dangers sur
rounding us on every fide plainly designated.
From them wi'lnay discover that we are up
on the eve of a war without having given e
veil the (hadow Of oft'ence j that demands
have been made of us which not only the max
ims of policy and the very exiltence of our in
-deneiidence but which even the principle of
common honesty forbid a compliance with 5
tliaf by the conteflion of the agents of France
themfclves (he "disregards the jultice of our
cl linis and the reafotjing which limy be brci't
in support of them ; that (he relies forfuc
cef's equally upon the greatness of her power
and the vicious 'efforts of her partizjns here ;
that in the opinion of our there
remains " no hope that the objetts of their
nijdion can in any way be accompl lhed
and tkat the only means by which our honor
can be secured i'rolu abjfement, our rights
trom prolfratioji, and our independence from
dedruclion is an unanimous, vigorous and in
deed delperute reliifance to -her frantic and
'unprincipled ambition.
It appears that the inffruftions given to our
Envoys inverted them with ample powers for
removing all the complaints which France
had made; that they generally coirtcided
with, aliho some refpevts they exceed
ed the recommendation contained in the ad
dress of the House of Keprefentat/ves to the
PreliJent at the last feflion of Congress ; that
in order to maintain peace compensation for
the injuries already done-to our commerce,
was not to have been infilled upon ; that all
the pretended advantages secured to Great-
Britain by the Britilh treaty,were to have be
come common to the Republic ; that those
which had been secured to us by our treaty
with her were to have been relinquilhed, and
a new one formed upon the broad balis of
jtlftice, equity, and the Laws of Nations;
thatEnvoysentrufled with offers so liberaland
pacific were not allowed even an official hear
ing ; but th it the unofficial agents of the Di
rectory(acknowledged to be such by theMi
ilfer of Foreign Relations) have told us, that
unlels our government would consent to prac
tice the arts of corruption, toalfeime uptin it
felf the debts which France owed to our owa
citi-ens ; and to make to her an immense loan
(he will not inform us of the terras 011 which
her insolenCe will condescend to make peace ;
that the plunder of our defencelefs merchant
men (hall continue ; that Friga;es from St.
Domingo fhal! ravage our coarts; and that
•our very habitations (hall be like Venice par
titioned among the conquering powers.
Filled with the alarm arising from the dan
gerous-situation of our country, a number of
C'tize'ns alfemoled at the house of John
Dunwoody, the evening before- the last.
This meeiing was compefed of men of all
political delcriptions. All former animosi
ties were there forgotten, and it was unani
mously agreed, that an address should be pre
sented to Cengrefs cxpreffive of the sense of
the people of the City and County of Phila
delphia on the present iituation of affairs ;
"■and declaring their fixed determination to
support, at every hazard, the rights, the ho
liorand the iridependencsofthe United State 6.
Softie measure of this kind was conceived
necelfary, in order to convince France and
the World that in defence of Our coun
try we were not divided ; and as Town
m;etings were unfit for coolness of de
liberation or freedom of difcuflion this was
thought the mod eligible plan we could de
vise. To this addrels your attefttion is now
caHed. Remember that it is not the effa
blilhnient of an abltrait theoretical point of
Government for which we are to contend, 1
but for the real and fubffantial enjoyment of |
our liberty and exigence as a nation ; and re- '
membertnat to contend with success for these
objeffs, without the poffefliOn of which life j
itfelf would be intolerable, Union and Vi
sor mud every where be the only order of
the day. MANEIUS.
MR. FENNO,
While enemies from without, and traitors
from within, qre devising the extirpation of j
■our molt facted rights, and robbing us of j
our property and inestimable privileges—lt
isa most pleasing citcumfta*ce, to find our
Executive and Judiciary Departments, sup
ported by able, prudent and firm men.
•It was with the highest fatisfadion that I
heard, and I wifli I could recapitulate, the
masterly, seasonable, and animated address
of Judge Chase, delivered to the Grand
Jury of the United States, for the Difttid
of Pennfylvauia, on the 12th inft. With
a rtiailerly pencil, lie delineated the features
of our excellent constitution, the security it
aflbTded to onrliberties,theproteftion of inno
cence, and the dcte&ion and punishment of
guilt.—The trial by jnry was noted as an
impregnable barrier of freedom and inde
pendence.
It was with the greatest propriety lemark
«l that the downfall of thetrial by jury, had
e?tr been the certain harbinger of defpo
«ifm. The cafesof the Northern Powers of
Europe were mentioned, as awful leflons for
our inftriiftion.
The explanation of the oath taken by ,
every grand-jury man, was certainly the
racft important part; man worthy 1
of the name, will consider it as an ineftw
mtblelofs tohimfeh", the public, and pqf- .
teriiy, if such in able, and seasonable pro- (
dud on, on that foit mn fubjefi, shall remain
fhnt up in the portfolio of the idgeniotis
and judiciou* author. When I repeat a con
cluding fi-ntence it may give some idea of
the general import " do to others the fame,
a3 you wifli that they in a like cafe should
do to you." It is with regret th :t I men
tion my inability to reptat what I most
earnestly with to be indelibly imprefled on
the heart of every juror.
One of th: *Traverfe Jury.
MR Ft N NO,
, Tlie f.intributor declines replying to the fiur
queries of Liicus n.in doiSlai, re! jieiliiig the plan
ill the Prnnfylvania ho'pital, and the y of
. Dr. Franklinto that inUitution.beeiufe ke knrtws
that the mir.utes of the miuagers, kf. »ill be
the belt answer t« those queries. He theref«re
hopes :hjt some one of tne contributors, will
move at their uext general meeting on the 7th
May, that the minutes of the' proceedings of the
managers of the Veiml'ylvania hefpftal relating
to the legacy of Dr. Frankiin (hjl! he printed 111
one of the public newspapers, together with the
minutes of the contributors, refpc-iling the new
building.
new-theatre.
Mr. y Mrs. Byrnes Night.
' THIS EVENING, April 14,
Willb- prclcjritcd (by deiire) thf 1 RAGKDY of
The EARL OF ESSEX.
Essex, Mr. Fenrell
Southampton, Marihall
Burleigh. Warren
Lieutenant of the Tower, Warrell
Rutland, Mrs. Merry
Notingham, M liS> Trancis
E iznbeth, Mrs. Mo. ris
Between the and 4th ©f the Tragedy, a
: J favorite Ballet Dance by Mr. Byrne)
called,
THE BOUQUET.
By Mr. Byrne, Mr. J. War.e.i, Mil's Milbournc,
ana Mrs. Byrne, &c.
wh'ch wich wi 1 be ad'ded, a Fantome, naVer
performed here (Under the direction ot' Mr.
Byni ) cal ed.
The ORIGIN OF HARLEQUIN;
Or, Commencement of Folly.
Harlequir, (for that niyht only) inr Byrne—
Pero, inr Doctor—Pantaloon, mr Lavancy—Beau,
mr J Warrell—King of rhe Gyplies.mr Warreii—
and Columbine,mrs Kyrne.
Fai r h mi s '-Varrcll—Hope, mrs Francis—Cha
rity, mrs HarJiiige—Juflicc, mrs Morris—Mercy,
mrs Oldm xou— femperaucc, mis« J^Eftrange—
. IXynen, maftt-r Byrne.
In the course of the Pantomime Mr Byrne
will Fly from the back of the Gallery to
the further end of the Stage.
A fiort description ofpart of the Scenery and
Plot ?if the Pantomime.
Firjl Scene. A Barn—Gyftjics \rlory or plenty f/ofo
1 a Monkey and old rags, the cempojttion rif Har
lequiny xubofe legs, arms, head, and body jump out of a
• boiling pot, and ivhcn put together, (U Strange !) ivitt
■ run, jump, Jink, fio:m i and Jty through the ivhou panto
; mime.
2d Scene. Pantaloons houfe —Folly and Fashion in
love—m fl Money carries the d.ty—which obliges Harle
quin to change the Scene to a GRAND S/ILOON, and
birnfelf into OLD SCR AT CH; plays the fiddle and
merry tricks al the IVecUing ; at Lift runs aivay xuitb the
Bride over a Mountainous Country on Horfrback—purfu
ed by Pd-taloon, Cloivn, Pero, B. au being fuj:g from
his hprfe, puts an end to the chafe.
Bth Scene. Confufton at Dinner, the Company iti- P/a- j
kle t Harlijitin s flight tbrsugh the rof of the House, and
over a Church Steeple: but at I ajt het hampered and creeps i
into a bottle : turns himfelf into a Statue ma
ny attitudes as a G LAD IA T OR.
In the \ltl> Scene Harlequin hvill fheiu us lubst ive
mufl all :*me to,
I stb Scene. To be avoide-t, " ot- Good ma*} coxefrom
fv.7," —'• -tis iVtman thatfeduces all M.inkiiU. %>
Scene,
The Cave of Vice,
Columbine surrounded by ail the Vices—isin great
dangei.but Heaven pjopitious to her prayers chan
ges this loathfotiid Den to
l'he'Temple of Virtue,
Where Fai h, Hope, Charity , and the reft of the
Virtues, with their attributes ftandarrayed in robes
ol white, with the aiti or
Harlequin & Columbine,
by Hvmen and tha Graces.
1 he whole to con lude by half past loVclocle.
0° 1 ick,cts to had at the usual places, and o/
Mr. and Mr* Byrne, corner of Second and Dock
Streets.
On Monday the favorite Comedy of the
BELLES STRATAGEM, and the Muficil farce
of the HIGHLAND KEEL—for the Benefit of Mr.
Marshall.
i Mr. Warren's Night on Wednesday next.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
; lifting of a Price Current In this city, and they
; hfl.viii£ engaged to give him every liliftance in their
1 power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market' Day Advertiser.
To be publifluxl every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on f*>ur pages quarto. It will
; contain the Prices Current (wholeiale) at Phila
! delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
\ ces Current at Boston, New York, Charleston,
1 and other p.irts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Looden, the Welt Indies and eife
where at often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rass of infnrauee—the price
of (locks—course of exchang;, &.c. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as shall
be thought ufeful and important—and the "remain
der of the paptr will be appropriated to advertife
qientt.
The price to fubferifcers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will he Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from i?.s publication,
and •he remainder at the end of the year. Sub*
| lciiber* at a greater dutance will have it fefct
1 agreeable to their directions—to pay t> odplarsat '
the time ot (übferibing, and the remainder at the 1
erdof the year.
The publication fliall commence as soon as a fuf
ficieut number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it. 1
£jT It is from the advica and to gratify the wifli
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the |
printer proposes publishing this Price Gnrrent in a j
quarto size in preference to any other. Ard it it
propofnd to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
in the firft two page®—appropriating the other two '
to such matter* as c. ay he mare immediately do- i
mellic, and to advertiicments.
Subfiriptions are received by said Humphries, at 1
his Printing Oliice, flo. 74, North Third-fircet,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun, at hisofhcc in Chcfnut- 1
flreet, and at the Philadelphia hbraty.
i hiladwiphia, April 14. ftf i
f %\)t c^asCtte»
[ » PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, April 14.
The Grand Inqurf! of the United States for
the diftrit! of Pennsylvania—to the Prtji
dent us the United States.
sir,
The v f'lofures which you have made of
the Inftruftions given to our Envoys to
i 1 ranee and the Dispatches received from
| them, evidence a strong determination to
promote and preserve a good understanding
with the French Republic, provided it
1 could he accomplished without affeftirig our
• national chara£ter and the Independence of
! the United States. We wanted no frefn
J proof of your attachment to your country
' nor your unremitted attention to the duties
of your high and responsible filiation. We
, are well convinced that the conduit of our
government 10 all nations has been jull and
honorable, and we wi(h to express in the
strongest terms our confidence in it.
Jt is true, Sir, that there are some cha
rsfters in the United States who call them
selves Americans, and who with patnotifm
f on their lips and profeflions of regard for
the conftitutton of our country, are endea
voring to poison the minds of the well mean
ing citizens and to withdraw from the gov
ernment the support of the people ; their
rrieafures are hoitile to the happinefsof this
country and they arc the Instruments of
Disorganization and Sedition ; many of
1 whom are probably employed by that Na
-1 | tion, whofc Rulers seek the Dellru&ion of
America and the tendency of whofefyftem
is to exterminate from the World every mo
ral and religious principle.
\ tt, Sir, we hesitate not to declare it as
our firm belief, rotwithllanding the opinion
of the Enemies of America, that the great
mass of our Fellow Citizens approve of
' your adcitti ft ration and are determined to
support it. With unanimity among the
people and with £he rectitude of our govern
ment, we trull in God we have nothing to
fear.- These fentimairts and these expreflions
the Gra' d Inquefl of the United States for
' the Diftrici of Pennfylvaiiia have taken the
liberty to present to you and feel themfclve3
happy in adding that although their body is
compefed of citizens from different parts of
the State, yet an unanimity has prevailed in
, making this communication.
They beg leave to offer their warmest
wishes for the welfare of the United States
and the happiness of their Chief Magistrate. -
JOHN LARDNER, Foreman.
Philadelphia, April 13th, 1798.
To the Grand Inquefl of the United States,
for the DiJlriH of Pennsylvania.
gentlemen,
I thank you for this addrefg—Your
approbation of the part I have taken, m an
intereiing negociation, gives me great plea
sure j but the conviftion you express, that
the conduft of our government to all na
tions, has been just and honorable, affords
me the highest fatisfa<£Hon. A nation which
is eonfeious of having done no wrong to
others, even when fuffering for a course of
years, tinder the provocations of a series of
insults, depredations and cruelties, may ap
peal to God, with a humble trust in his
blessing, and to the world, in a full afTurance
of obtaining its confidence
If there are perverfs characters who call
themselves Americans, I am well afTured
there have been greater numbers mere-ly er
roneous, deceived by partial information,
and transported by too ardent a zeal.
For myfelf, I have never entertained a
doubt, that the great mass of our fellow
citizens would support au administration
■which has nothirg in view but impartial
juftiee to all nations, and the chara£tev,inde
pendenceand profpdrtty of the country: Nor
have I ever despaired of a unanimity of the
people in such sentiments, and in pursuit
of these objeßs—And with you I humbly,
but firmly trust in God, we have nothing
to fear.
Under a Constitution like ours, the intel
ligence and integrity of Juries, in the legal
support of the government, are essential to
the preservation of its existence—With their
impartial countenance and faithful exer
tions, it can scarcely fail to answer the ends
of its institution, by confirming the fafety,
securing the honor, promoting the prospe
rity, and I will add, establishing the power
and advanciag the glory of the nation.
While Ijoin with you in your warmest
wiihes for the welfare of the United States,
I beg leave to allure you of mine, for the
happinef3 of the Grand Inquest of Penn
sylvania.
Signed, JOHN ADAMS.
United States, April 14.
At a numerous and rc-fpeflable meeting of I
of citizens ol the city of Philadelphia,
diftrift of Southwark and Northern Li
berties, held at Dunwoody's tavern on 1
the eyening of the 12th April,' 1798,
Colonel Gurney in the chair, :
It was Rifplved unan'imoufly, As the I
sense of this meeting, that the information
contained in the Dispatches fro/n the En- j
voys Extraordinary from the United States
at Paris, to the Secretary of State, is fa t
nature to excite universal alarm throughout '
Amei'i a, and to call for the unanimous and r
energetic support of the people in aid of 1
the government of the United Statu. 1
Resolved unanimaufly, That the nieafures ,
pursued by the Prelident of the United
States to restore harmony between the Uni
ted States and the Republic of France and
to establish a permanent and good under
llandipg between the two nations, as the
fame are fpecified in the iiiflrudions to the t
Envoys Extraordinary, have been wife, 1
just, liberal and fmcere ; and entitle him to f
the gratefulacknowledgmentsofhiscountry. 1
Resolved unarimmfly, That an Address c
and Memorial exprtffive of the sentiments »
? contained in ttieforrgoingrefolutfons be pre
pared, to be fignrd by the Citizens of the
City and County of Philadelphia, and to
be prcfented to the Piefident, the Senate,
and the House of Representatives of the
United States.
Resolved, That the following gentlemen
- be a committee to prepare the address and
r that they report the fame as soon as pre*pa
" red to this meeting.—viz.
Joseph Thomas, Andrew Bayard, Samuel
Wheeler, Joshua Humphreys, Henry Pratt,
f Levi Hollingfworth, and Joseph North.
} The committee retired accordingly and
' after some time returned with the form of
> airaddrefs which was read and unanimously
C agreed to. Another committee were ap.
r poiuted to circulate the fame for the figna
r tures of-the citizens.
f Ref-lved, That the proceedings oF this
1 meeting, a thentieated by the signatures ot
the chairman a id feci etary, be pub'.ifhed in
' the Enjdiih and German
: FRAN IS GURNEY, chairman.
| Sdrr.uel IV. Fisher, Secretary,
: [The following, <we learn, is a Copy of the
Address adopteii by the Citizens ivho affem
lled at Dunwoody's on Thursday Even
ing-']
I Te the President, the Senate,and the House
of Representatives of the United States
of America.
Tt*E ADDRESS
' And Memorial of the Citizens of Philadel
phia, the Diftridt oflSouthwark, and,
j. the Northern Liberties,
p Respects ully Sheweth,
i That your memorialing consider the pre
p| sent period as pregnant with events of the
| highest importance to the kappinefs andfafe
' ; ty of tire United States, ffnd thcr fore deem
: it an eflentiakand indispensable duty, to ex
' press, to the several branches of the Fede
-1 ral Government, the fentimeiU3 and deter
mination, which this extraordinary crisis in
their national affairs ha 3 inspired.
Appreci ting, with due estimation, the
' advantages of neutrality, and the bl. flings
of peace, your memorialists have beheld,
with entire fatisfa&ion, the earnest and re
iterated errdeavonrs of the government of
the United States to preserve this desirable
. position—and they have seen, with corres
pondent concern, that the anxious advan
-1 1 ees, which have been made by the govern
' ment of the United States, towards a ref
utation of harmony with the republic of
' France, have been received with a marked
difference of disposition on the part of that
government—and that, in the very thres
hold of discussion, they have been treated in
'a manner, which could not fail to revolt e
very feeling of individual pride and national
independence.
Your memorialists learn, with equal af
tonilhwept and alarm, that the firftilep to
wards negociation has been made under a i
menace that, in cafe ofrefufaltopay a heavy
and difgraceful tribute, as the price of
peace, the United States of America would
be exposed to share the fate of Venice—
accompanied by a ftlggeftion, that, as they
were 3 divided people, the esecution of the
menace was inevitable.
Your memorialists feel themselves enjoin
. Ed by every consideration of duty to their
, country, to themselves, and to posterity, to
repel.the infmuition, which thus attempts
to diflionor the Ameriuaa charafter—-and to
expose the fallacy of the expectation on
which the threat, to extinguish the inde- j
pendenre of the United Stafes, is founded. !
Deeply impreflt-d by a sense of the blef- j
lings which they enjoy und«;r the truly free |
an I equal government of the United Stat: s, ,
your memorialists, as members of this hap
py and highly favoured community, are dc. ;
termined, at evay hazard, to maintain their '
Fraedom and Independence.
With this inestimable obje'dt to guide 1
their deciflon, your memorialists declare,-
that as the condinS heretofore pursued by ■
the Executive Departrae it, to preserve
peace with foreign nations, merits and re
ceives their perfect and gratefulapprobation;
so their confidence in the Wisdom andpatrio
tifmof every branch ofthe Government being
complete, they pledge themselves firmly to
support every tncafure, which may hereaf
ter be thought necessary to secure the con
stitution, freedom, and independence of (.he
United States.
appointmknts.
John Slqss Hobart, Diftrift Judge,
for New-York Diftrift—vice Robert Troup
resigned.
Moses Young, of Pennsylvania, Consul
for Madrid.
Conmclicut Jacobins done over I
By accounts from that truly independent
federal Hate, we find that the Jacobins at
the late nominating eledlion iie left further
in the rear of the majority, than 011 any
preceding occalion.
The Cork fleet arrivedat Jamaica March 3.
On laft arrived at New-Yorl(,
the Ihip Perseverance, from Canton.
The (hip John, Jackson, of this port, has <
arrived at Calcutta, from Hamburgh. '
The lupercarpo of the' fchoouer Robinson
Crufo, Church, carried into B rmiula, liaving
deposed, that the w linie ot r lie rat go was French
it is to be prefu.. e*i (he will be condemned.
A letter reeeiv, d here, via tfaltmiore, from
the ci;y of St. Domingo, ilated the nth nit.
mentions the liberation of the brig Mary, Young »-
of Newburyporf-port, both veTel Jnd <yrgc,
and that Jiuige Ponce and h:» ofllreri were dis
placed, and a new trihun ,1 efUb;ifiird
TRANSLATED from the Leyden Gazette. f
From the Redaflcur of January 27.
PARIS, "Jth Pluvioft, year 6.
The enemies of kings and of anarchy,
the friends of liberty have to felicitate them- 6
selves upon a new event which is about to
give a iolid basis to their principles. Hoi
land, which the partizatw of the Stadthold
er and those of an outrageoits demagogy jj]
wilhed to dedroy, has pronounced itfclfde-
• ' • • I
cifive'y. An l8;h Fi\d'dur has optratrcj
!€• there ; aiJ a cirtnirpli uioc. remarkable e
-0 noufjh is that the plan ps that necefTary vg.
?, volution, was determined on.the ad Plnviofy*
if (21 January O. S.) the anniversary or t!:^
jull puni!hment of the last king of (he
n French.
d The execution of the plan took place,
- from the next day ; the republicans of th-
Batavian convention, have, on that day f
-1 saved their country : th«y have caufcd to
, be arretted those nietTibers of their bodyj
who by the intrigues which they carried on
d in order to prevent the completion of the
>f constitution, nourished the hope of the ene
y mies of Holland, of France, and of liberty
!• and so powerfully seconded the manoeuvres
t- of the government of England. There have
been proposed, and the purified convention
is have immediately adopted them, the foun»
>t dations of a constitution, free and wife,
1 which goes to the organization amongst
them of the Representative SyJlem, from
i. which the BataVian people expefts its liber
ty and its happiness.
The perfidious cabinet of St. James's 13
v thus at length outwitted in Holland, as it
1- has been in France j and this last blow
- one of the most important which has beea.
struck again ft The Tyrant of the Sia. The
' c friends of humanity will Ifarn with pleasure
8 that this revolution his been cffr&cd in Hol
land without any effufion of blood, with.-
oat pillage, without disorder. They will
. remark tint every where the republicans
krio-.v hovv to unite sagacity to firmnefs and
to courage. Here are the detail* of this
important event.
The party of the patriots had gained
. strength for iome timr. The most influen
- ti*l among them had rcfolved to lign what
n thev have called the Couftilulional Creed ;
. This was an ail containing those gmfcral
. principles which, in the sense of the Bata
. vian patriots, ought to fcrve for a bjdis to
u the constitution, as well as to the Immcdi
j ate formation of a provisory government.—-
e I The fignatureg soon multiplied—-thoy cm
s braced the names of a great number of the
t I rtprefentativs. At length, on tly 2d Plu
. ; viofc, every thing having been concerted
f. betorehai d, and the most decided measures
. for tranquility having been taken, the order*
were given at 4 o'clock in the morni.ig for
. the arrest of fix members of the commifiion
. of exterior relationt j and, at the fame time,
the remainder of the Rcprefentatives were
f invited to meet in the National Hall of the
j convention. By five o'clock, the members
t who had signed the Cried, were allembled
with the President fn the apartment called
! Hxrlem : numbers of other member, met
. there fucceifively: at seven o'clock, the
I whole maj jrity had cblle&ed there. Imme
diately, a detachment of the National
. Guard and another corps of hired troops,
. paraded with ceremony before this aflern
, blage of Conjlitutional members, and con
r du&ed thvm to the National Hall amidst tb;e
e clamor of popular acclamations.
[ The aflembly formed itfelf upon the spot,
„ and the President, afler haviiig declared the
, motives of this extraordinary convocation,
. ordered, with the afTertt of a great majority,
the arrest of twenty-one members (not com*
prjfing the fix, already arre.'lcd, of the ex
terior relations) : Two of these twenty-one
not being to be found, the uineteeif other}
were instantly deposited in a neighboring
hall ; and by a solemn decree, these twenty
one, as also the fix of the diplomatic com
! minion, were excluded frpm their feal3 in
| the convention. The affenibly, thus pari
! fied by this separation, decreed fucceHively
j the fundamental articles of thr con'.iitution,
'• those which eftablilh the provisory goverr..
went and those which allure along with pub.
; lie tranquility, the plenitude of the confti.
! tutional power.
The alTcmbly declared Itfelf permanent,
and peaceably purfocd t!:e course of its ope.
rations. Commiifionei* have been dispatch.
]ed to the provinces ; and every thing an
nounces that the caim will be universally
prevalent.
'-U JHHWJ. X- LLJJJJ.'
CO The Members of the Socie
ty of lhe Sons of St. George, c'lal) lifted at Phila*
delphia, for the advice and assistance of
men in didref-, to attend an Avmi*
virfary Meeting of the f-id Society, at the City
Tavern, on Monday, the 23d inft, at 2 •'clock
the afternoon.
GEO. DAVIS, Secretary.
%* Dinner to be cn the tabls prccifciy at lour
o'clock. eotsjd april 14
Landing at Wain's wharf.
M '
From on board th? brig Enterprise, capt. Lang*
don, from Jamaica.
6ohogiheadsof good.SITCrAR, andFntitlcd to
60,009 wti of prime green CQFFfcE J drawback.
And Fcr Sa'e by
WHARTON & LEWIS,
bo l\S* ?outh Front street,
t Who have like wife for fa!e,
A quantity of 4th p oef Januica RyJU
MoSatles, and
70 barrel® of Titiners* Oil
april 14- eoTpt
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge,'
T""HE Books for receiving Suhfcriptions will
be opci cd at tlir liouli of VVilium Sheaff,
Elq. at the coiner of Market ind Fifth Streets,
o" Monday the l6th inllaiit, at io o'clock,
a. M. and contini e open tili furthec notiee,
Richard Pet en "]
John Perot
Matthe-wM'CvtintH Comm.'Conerl
Godfrey Nag a
IVliiiam Skfnjf. J
wi! T 4 f'f
iNotice ii hereby Given,
I'H VT application has been made at thcJJ i..k c[
il t United S . tek, for the rene vil ut tlie fol
-1 win five beaten us a. nk Stock I oil by «
i p u e of he 3riti(h Packet, Coun.:, 1, of Liicif.
ter— via.
N0.370t.c1 ntaininj;s(hares') Iffa <1 to H:nry Ca
-3 cj 5 do j zenove Nephew I.Co
73» I d<>. iflued to Edwtrdf
and Co
3' 88 s do. iiT»el (in lieu ct
6509 t > 6513) to Samual and Henry V»ddii gtoa.
292S 4 do. iffiied to Phyn, El« •
lice and Intuit.
All pcifrtis e. ncerned are therefore cal'ednpon
to fte * cmfe why new Certificates ftioiild not b«
ifTued ijir, ' ably t«;he fiid application.
»r"l t4 CifwTREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
•T'HAT by an aft of Congrtfs palled on the
X 19th day of March, 1798, the following
1 terations and amendments hive been made to
the aft pasTed on the 6lh day ot July 1797> en
titled " An aft laying duties on damped vel
" luni, parchment aßd paper."
The fhmp duties on debentures or oertifi
cates for the drawback of Customs er dutiei on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Ci ntum, will be allowed by tbe Supervisors
or Infpeciois refpeflively, ta my persona other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase it one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment rr Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each fltiir of Parch
jjx-nt, or Two Hundred Cents for each flcin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifh
ed at 'he expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity-
Given under my bend, at Philadelphia, tbe
day and yeir abovementioned,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tbe Treasury.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN",
'"i HaTpropolals will be received at theOlliceof
L the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the nth day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of ull rations which may be requi.ed
fr.r the ule of the United States, fromthe firtt day of
OiSober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the difti i<ft hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Frefcjue Iflc ; at Michiiimaclcinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; at Picque Town ana
Lcramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place btlow Fort Defiance on the Mi
anu River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon. on the River Wabafh ; at Maflac; at any
place or places on ihe east fide of the River Aiiflil
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
eal fide cf the Mifiifiippi River below the mouth
<5? the River Ohio to the fouthcrn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said 3tat« ; at
Knoxvillo, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Tolls in tie State of fcnnefTee ; at any place or
glacis on theeaflfide of the River MifT.flippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of l'ennef
lee, to thefoutherii boundary of the United States.
If supplies (hall be required for any ports or
places not mentioned in this notice.all such supplies
fhallbe furnifhed at price: proportioned to those to
the poP s before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to corifiil of th - - ful-
articles, via.
Otic pound of bread or flour
Or,e pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a Jill of rum, brandy or whlf-")
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( h J, drK j'
of vinegar, two pounds of foar>, ( ration 9
q;io pound of caridles y
The 1 atiorsarc to befurnifhed in such quantities,
as th.it there fball at all times during the said term,
be fyificient for the consumption of the troops at
MichiHmactunac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
fpr the form of fix months in advance, and at each
cf the ether pofls, for the term of at leafl three
Bionth3is ad v ice, in good and wholesome provi
fioiis, if ihefarne (hall be required. Itistebeun
dcrflood, that the contrr.<9or is to be at the ex
p nee and »ifk of ilfuing the supplies to the troops
ateath pt'ft, and that all loflts fuitained by the lie
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, fhallbe paid for at
the price of tbe articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more pcrfons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, afcsrtaining the circuraftances of the
loss and the amount of the articles for whioh com
pcnfalion (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
cf requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furrifhed under thepropofed contr.vsl,-fiiall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in force have
bten coufulr.cd
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
, Secretary of the Treasury.
march 17. aawtn ]y
Law 13ook Store,
No. 319, High-ftrect.
George Davis,
JMPRE*SEr> with the favors {hewn*him in his
efforts toeftabliih a Store for the sale of Law
Bucks only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
r.bat in addition to his colle&ion now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the pofftflion of any one ptrfon fcrfale in Ameri
ca, he expe<sU daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly trom the latter place,
havbgchiefly confinedhi?importations to those edi
tions, as being in his opinion equally corre& with
rfie Lordcn copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Book», it will appear obvious to profefilonal gen
tlemen the great advawtagesthey havein purchaftng
from him, both as to fole<slion and price, of which
the encouragement fce has received for several years
p*ft, is the Deft tettimony he can offer.
narchao. 3aw3w
New Publication.
A SenflU, Seafonahle and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
M What is our Situation ?
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second streets.
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut dr.
(Price three fixteentbs of a dollar)
FxtraA from the above.
It it ejlcnrjblng to bear tbe txpence of xvar so often
and by ivell rreaninj feop'e too, againfl our taking
any meafurn of ft!f~f refcrvation—fball wbe cLf.ruyed,
ttiavfeve will not incur tbe txfener of defettu . for my
•wr. part, if it it neeeffarj I jbouidg 'rve one bulf if all
I buve to save tie other, I Jbull nrH hfttate to do so Ij
trtore it requisite, more fball be r 'tvrn ; and if finally, /
mufi give up all to f>rtfirve my life and liberty, all fball be
f?Ce*'y given. Tbe true "wealth tf a nation conftft in its
indcfnadence and frcurity, and not in accumulating gold to
tie in ufelrfibbeas t or cnr'ub tbe triumph of a ftvage con
queror—At a time -when half tbe "world it racktd in dire
(^nvuftont, lulen i/nmenfe countries are drfolatedand jxrw
erful nations extirpated, if tve cfcafte ivitb cxpence omly,
it r may den* ourftlxct verif rtunute«"
0/trt'i <V
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, iituate on th« east fide
of she main street, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for y yards below Captain
FttrUce's Tavern, containing in front on said street 1
thirty four feet, and extending in depth c aft ward j
twelve perches, together *'ith ifee buildings theie
on ereded, which confiflr of a good brick house,
two stories high, well finilbed, with two rooms a
bmit seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
pafifage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a paflage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchen ; a back brick building-with tw© rooms
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the opper rooms of this building communi
cate above ft airs with the pafTage of the house :
A brick fmokc house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpeA as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by Joliu Freeman, as a tavern,
with t&e sign of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eivhth-ftreet, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march ly. tus4w
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. situate on
Water flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water ftrert fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin-. :
ing »n the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, dour fa<ftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo'd on very reasonable
terms for calh. For further information apply
to the printer.
April 5 mfrwtf
To be Let,
A three story brick House,
With Stables, and a Garden containing nearly one
acre of choice ground, several Summer Houses,
Fruit Trees, &c. on Race, and second street from
Schuylkill ; the whole in good condition, and the
situation high, airy and excellent tor a place of
public entertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and no deep,
is also to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at No. 39,
Pine street.
Wm. currte.
march'2l. wstf
Valuable Stands for Business.
FOR SALE—Iy the Suhjcriher,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third streets :—one containing:
eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or !
! ess, on the said street, and both extending, the :
breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
brick Houses
(Numbers 80 and 82)
Which may readily be made into one ' r and, oa ;
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well buill
three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two ?oomn on a floor
yid a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
Thisprorerty is clear of ground»r*nt, and an
The three Houses wilt be fold separately or toge
ther. 1
Further particulars may b« known oa applica
tion to
ZACHARIAII POULSON, jun.
No. 80, Chefnut-llreet, or at the Library,
march a}. 18w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all of which n
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Eur) of Sterling). Jt may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andja small cxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard connftsof Ijoo finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
tradl.near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and not delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Treos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frerm M«rris-Town, and xa from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in eafh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut .-treet,
February a. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE, ,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, iituate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county > Maryland—containing a
boat 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. Th« Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow kou r es, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two OverseerS houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , Blc. See.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring
conveniently iituated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a ftiort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifts; also, avarietyof excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil it mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting ot Horfea, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofedoL———For further
paiticulars apply to G&orqk Hastinqs, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. iaw6w
• FOR SALE, at .
Wm. Young's Book Store,
■ No. s»,"Second flreet, the corner cf Chefout street.
j I) EPOR.T of the Committee of the House of
IV Repiefeotativeiofthe United States, appoint
v f.A to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
7 ag-.inft V; ILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
f United States, impeached of high clime* anJ mis-
I demeanors, mndeiu pursuance of a resolution of
c the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the reccf. of Congrefi, and
inftiucling ihtui " to enquire, and, by all lawful
means, todifcovcr the whole nature and extent
* of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" ftanJs impencheJ, and who are the partiet and
" aflociatestherciii."
Printed by order of thf tlonfe nf Reprefentati-vej
December f
Ran away from the subscriber,
oh the I4tb itilh two indebted !rilh Servant Men:
\ Thomas M'Guire, about zs years of age, and 5
feet 8 inches high, rota ft, stout, and well made,
i short blaik hair, remarkable for a fear on oc.e of
his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
fcrWcc JefFry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder disposition, and more Hai
der ftiort brown hair ; their working appa
relwas blue cloth over jncketi, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen (hirts, grey
yarn stockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and ruffett leather ftioes; they have other cloathing
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, but have been brought up to the farm
ing business ; no doubt will have forged pafTefr and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the post road to Philapclphia, I pur
chased riaem the latk fall of c*pt. Rollins, in Dalti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
so that I get them, and will pay all renlonable
charges if brought home, or if ieparated, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeftry.
ARTHUR. i)RYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. <3.uv}W
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jerfcy, and made iheir escape, bervveen
1 and 2 o'clock, this two Men, who
were convi«slcd of dealing—one of them calls liitn
felf Jame* Legg, the. other Edward Hambletoa—
Leggis a grcy-heaied Man. about soycarsold, 5
fc3t 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head; Hambleton is about 26 years old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Lcl't the
prison in company with the abrve described
thieves, a small man, who calls himfclf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 feet 6 incheshigh,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade »■ Whoever willfecure
the thieves in any Gaol in New-]erfey or Pennsyl
vania, lhall b? entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon.
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march rj. 24 —mt&f,jw
FOR~SALE,
ALL that elegant three flory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
containing in front on Fourth ttrect 33 feet, and
111 length on Prune flrect 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the weft fide ®f Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth on Fourth
itreet 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 feet on the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the last
deferred los, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide ioafeet, thence running fouthw3rd 11 feet 6
inches, thence further westward 12 feet, thence
ft ill further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common ufft of the said four feet alky leading in
to Prune ftreec. The whole will be fold together
if more agreeably to the purchafcr.
For terms, enquire of the subscriber, at his of
fice, No. 124 South Fourth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march 31. * 3awtf
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mautown, end about five miles from the city ;
the whole being under good fence, »&d in ex
' ccllent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliot r Cresson, at his Office for the
sal* of Real Eflates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
| High-ffreet.
4th mo. 3d. tuJcftit
Israel Morris ")
against j Maryland.
ThomasMargatroyd,James BelV, j. InChancery,
Marftall and Benjamin Smith, r March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, j 1798.
def eased.
THE obje& of the hill, is for the Complain
nant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, i; 8», to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £-ioo principal.—
Tht relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant assigned, by way of security for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed bv Samuel Downing, for the sum
of £.350 that the said Tucker received of the
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
lum of £.IOO and negledled to take steps' for
obtaining the residue, until the laid Downing
became insolvent.
The bill ftatcs that all the defendants are
now residents of thp State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, thai he
cause a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks successively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
at any time before the firft day of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants applicariori to
this court and of the substance and objeft of his
bifl and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third Teefday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree fliould not pjfs
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Cau.
April 3 CO3W
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Ben jam in Fran klin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in casks
White wine in half casks
Sweet oil of a superior quality'in boies and|bafkets
Lunelle
Sauterne ( _ r
Macarty, and ( Wines in Cafe,.
Medoc J
Thomas Murgptroyd,
No. xl, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Intitled
Irifli market 7 «r- • r > to
Medoc, and Sau'erne j ' " ltS Ca "' j drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter caiks
Rota
Pimento in bag 3 ;
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 buihcls I iverpoolSalt.
march 19 raw&ftf
LAND I N G
From on board the Schooner Rang&r, from
Jacquimu,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. I»7 Chefnut-ftrcet.
Wh* has remaining on hand 6,c00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, ofafyperior quality.
March 15, d6t
TREASURE "DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfusnce of the Adl of Cengr. fs pa.Ted on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundredand
niuety-feven, e-.titled " An AvSl laying duties on Stamped Velluin, Parchment and Paper , and the
Adl palftd on the fifteenth day of Oecwinbcr, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An A>St to poftpene for a limited time the commencement of the- duties imposed by the A<£t enti
tled " All Adt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
Crft day of Jnly ensuing, the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collect
ted throughout tl.c United Status*
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet' or piece of Paper, upon which lhall be
written or printed any or either of the iullruments or writings lollowing—to wit:
Dh Cts. | Ml*
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - 5
Any Licence to pra£Mce,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment orregiftry of
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advoeate or Proflor, in any Court of the ,
United States, ... . 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States '
for one of the said Ofticcj, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty afore s aid, Oe a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of'the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military ftrvices) - 4.
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) 1 2 ;
Any Charter-Parry, Bottrmry, or Refpondcntia Bond, - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
ther teflamentary inflriwnent, or for any (hare or part of a perfor-al cllate di
vided by force ot an y ftatutc of distributions, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereoffhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... . 15
When the.ainonnt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
fiall not exceed five liundrsd dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or lnflrnment in nature thereof, on any ship, vefie'l or
goods insured from one ciiflrift to another in the United States, aj
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which L
lnfurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
A?y Exemplification, of what nati«re soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, ether than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular state, - jo
Any Bond, bill (ingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or otlier obliga
tion or contrail, made to or v ith the United States or any (late, or f»r their
uferefpeilively, •
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - , 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thcufand dollars, - ....
Pr»vidcd,tbat if any bonds or notes (hall bi payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not excelling one hundred dollars, - 4
If aboreone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundjed dollai s, io
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ao
If above one thousand dollars, .... 30
Any Notes iflticd by th« tanks now eftabliflrad, or that may hereafter be eftab
li(hed within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refptflivrly, according to -
the following fcSle. - - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding oae hundred dollars, 50
In all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 2 .
Any Protest or other Notarial aA, .... -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an Invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services j •
performed in the late war, - ... 25 ■
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftoros or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - .... 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than t*ro thousand dollars, - - - J
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If fraro one diftri& to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
time State, .... lo
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 35
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, good* or effects, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtoe of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inf'jrance Company, of a (hare in-the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above onp hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be collected and r«eeived by the Super.visors, Infpe<Stors aud other Officers
of Infpeition, in the Several DiftriSs, Surveyoand Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons at lhall from t« time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diitrids lor
that purpose.
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftri<£ls will, prior to the firft day of July enfuing|. and as fopn at
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any ef the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thcfiid duties • Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rate 6 prescribed bylaw, by application to any Sr.pervifor, liifpe<9or, Officer of Infpectio*,
or other person: appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrids
GIVEN under my Haud, at Ptiladelpbim
tht day and year uSovententitned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON .Ess LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ift and id proof Brandy, J drawljack.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, See. &c.
Feb. 9. * eod' f
"NTTTceT^
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Flfetwoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ctaferf, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GF.O. DOBSON, } . - a ,
No. 15, So. Third-Arect. j jUm,m J ir r
January 4. dtf
just Publilhed,
And to be had at the Book-flores of MetTrs. Dob*
son, Campuell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauies and Cjure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
To which it annexed,
As) ABSTRACTpf the opinions and praSice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and reflections relative to
the Synochut IflcroiJti, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much di(lref» and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of, Physicians,
and Member of the American Philolophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*sm§
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in tills Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at W«, BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Oflice, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the 3chuylk:ll Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dillart, where check books are kept lor r«gitier
ing and examining in thefc, the City of Wafbing
ton, No. ll.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moQ]of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. Theb»finefsof a Broker, in buying aud
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcokßting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houfei, will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November if, j
Salisbury Estate.
THE Sublcriber, proposing to contra® his bufi
i>efs, offers this E(W tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, ind a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of flones ; also a pood Forge, all
in perlcft repair, at are all the Water Works connefl
ed with thef© various branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built tor the pnrpofe of carting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thoulaod acres
of Land, which isuuder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Palture. The Cannon lately manufailsred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the wprtd ; for not one of sixty-nine gan«
lately made, although fame of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fnu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aad a place of arm! lying in the state
of Connt£licut, and only 30 miles from I'cvera! land •
ings on the Hudson's having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water i&iin •
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufcful purpoles. The purchsfer can beaccomraodju
ed with all theflockatid utensils, and have porteflion
otjor belore the firtl of Junencxt, and preparation
may be madeln the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every patt will be delivered
iri good order, with some coal, Ore, Ac. ftc. For
terms, apply to Mr. JoiVpb Anthony, in Pmladcl
phia; David Brook), Efq.ont of the Reprefemawvef
in'Congrefofortfji.Stace; Mr, David Wateiman, oa
the prenwfet, or 10 the propi ietor in Slew-York.
WILLIAM XEILSOX.
Dee. t. 3awtf
A 0 T I C E.
Manufactory of yellow and delft ivare x
Such as Bcver was in thta Country before, has beeq
been lately ereflrd at Tivoli, Red Hook. Landing,
outhe'taft Bank of Hudson's River, (late of Newg
York, where any article of vaiiouj forts and fhapc»
may be executed, as well as earthen) upon %
new eonftiutlion, that saves three fourths ef thefuel
commonly uied in cast iron tloves or open chy mnies;
they are bcfidesvery wholesome and ornamental, by
applyingto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fktllful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the laid ware. Generous appoiut*
ment.s will be given. Apply asabo»e, or to
DAVID BROQKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Feb. 19. eo^4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the 1 entreof th« city—for which a generov.s
rent will begiven; to be talin tor a year, or on
more for a lompr term. Inauirtof th» Printer.
oa. 17. eels .